------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------­
As violence continues 
U.S. dependents flee from Iran 



TEHRAN · Iran [AP]-Hundreds of 
U.S. dependents left Iran yester· day, joining the growing exodus of foreign workers fleeing the anti­government violence that has enveloped the country. Oil pro­duction continued to tumble because of the crippling three-day strike by Iranian workers. 
"We're not taking any chances" said one American woman as she sat in the lobby of the Tehran Hilton waiting to go to the airport. "These troubles are getting on our nerves. We've had death threats and abuse. and we've just had 
-· enough. I don't know if we'll come back again." 
Two of Iran's political opposition leaders, Karim Sanjaby and Dariush Forohar, both-of the coalition National Front, were re· leased from detention last night. 

This gave rise to speculation that the 71-year-old Sanjaby, who was arrested Nov. 8, had been freed to help form a coalition government to stem the violence. Reliable sources said another front member, Shapo_ur Bakhtiar, had been sug­gested as a deputy prime minister. Gen. Gholam Reza Azhari, named prime minister Nov. 6, would retain his post in the coalition to ; . show it had the blessing of the military, the sources said. 
Sanjaby, in a telephone interview with French radio shortiy after his release, said he was not willing to take part in a new coalition government "in the existing condi· tions in Iran." Sanjaby said that no such post had been offered to him. 
Scores of American families 

'Stop-out syndrom' strikes growing number ofstudents 
. 

Editor's note: This is the first segment of a two-part series on the "stop-out syndrome," the inter· ruption of college for a short time to pursue other objectives. Today's article focuses on the methods with which colleges are handling the trend. Tomorrow's article covers student and administration views on stopping-out. 
by Mike Shields Staff Reporter 

At some point in a student's 16-year career, spanning the time between kindergarten and college, there comes a time when he wants to stop for a while and catch his breath. 
An increasing number of stu­dents, faced with career indecision, motivational problems, new job opportunities, or financial worries, are interrupting their education. Many work for a semester of a year; others take time off to travel. Some never return to school. 
Different universities and colleges handle this trend, sometimes called the "stop-out syndrome," in differ­ent manners. As a rule, large state schools do not require notification for a leave of absence prior to the student's withdrawal. Smaller schools keep more careful track of students. 
However, most schools, either 
large  or  small,  seem  to  have  no  
official  policy  about  leaves  of  
absence for students.  
At  Indiana  University  in  

Bloomington, there is no formal procedure for a student's leave of ' absence, according to a school spokesman. It is up to the individual student to make 
arrangements with the registrar for readmission. 
Purdue University also does not require previous notification· for a leave of absence. "As long a students are eligible academically 
Observer reschedules Christmas party 
The Observer Christmas party originally scheduled for Saturday Dec. 9. has been changed to Fri. D.ec. 8 from 9 pm to ? at Guiseppe's. Everyone is welcome, and bring your friends! I! 
and disciplinarily, students do not 
have to reapply to be readmitted," 
according to Barbara Stone of the 
Admissions Office at Purdue. 
"Students who wish to reenter 
Purdue fill out a one-page form 
before registration,'' she said. 
Consequently, the school knows 
who will be back only when the 
student pays his fees, Stone noted. 
"It's hard to keep track of 30,000 
students,'' she said, adding that 
she did not know how many 
students were on leave at this tima. 
John O~erhelman, director of Admissions at Evansville Univer­sity, explained the school's leave procedure. "Students who leave in good standing do not need to apply for readmission if they attended no other schools in the interim per­iod,'' he said. A ''small percent­age" of Evansville's 3,000 students take leaves of absence, he noted. 
Michigan State University has an "almost automatic" readmission process, according to Chuck Seeley, director of Admissions. 
"Ifan e"ll"olled student leaves for a term anli seeks readmission, it's a fairly simple procedure, no big hassle," he said. He noted that students are supposed to notify his office before withdrawing, but not all do so. He had no idea of how many students were on leave. Michigan State does not keep such figures, he said. 
At Ohio State University, "we never require an application for readmission," according to Mary Ann Bagby, admissions counselor. "Students can leave and return at any time, except when switching colleges.'' 
"Students can return 30 years after leaving and still register. They can also alternate quarters, work one quarter and study the next, in our co-op program. Our policy is very flexible and provides alternative opportunities for our students," she said. 
Villanova Registrar David Smith said few students ask to take leaves of absence, but those who do leave "have a different philosophy. They have much more of a free spirit, but they see the benefits in coming back to school. People realize the importance of adegree.'' 
"It's an excellent experience for someone who doesn't know what they want to do--you get a feeling of what the real world is ·about," Smith said. 
Smith advocated a "late start" stationed in Isfahan, south of Tehran, flew to the United States yesterday. Most of the women declined to be identified because they feared for their husbands remaining in Iran. 
The U.S. and British embassies issued warnings to their nationals to stay off the streets as fears grew that opponents of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi planned a showdown for Ashura on Dec. 10-11, the peak of religious fervor during the holy month of Moharram. 
The month is an emotion­charged period when religious zealots march in procession and scourge themselves to mourn the 641 A.D. assassination of Imam Hossein, the grandson of the Prophet Mohamed. 
The military government has 
program, already instituted in some schools, in which a student, upon graduating from high school, is guaranteed admission to a school even if he decides to wait for a year or two. 
Policy at smaller schools 
At a sampling of smaller schools, officials said that few students apply for leaves of absence, which are usually granted. 
Sr. Grace Margaret, registrar at Chestnut Hill College in Pennsyl­vania, noted two or three students a year ask for leaves, mostly for financial reasons, "but we don't have any k.nd of pattern here." The enrollment at Chestnut Hill is 630. 
Immaculata College (enrollment 581 Women)in Pennsylvania also has approximately three stop-outs a year. Sr. Dorothy Regina, Immaculata's registrar, observed that "some students are not quite ready for the rigors of college. They are not mature enough." 
Regina said she has recom­mended a leave of absence for students before, either for financial or academic prpblems. "Some students are afraid to 'stop-out' because of a fear of readmission," she said, ''but that is not a problem.'' 
At Hanover College in southern Indiana, there is no leave of absence policy for its 950 students, according to Barbara Quilling, vice-president of Student Affairs. Students withdraw without pre­
[ continued on page 12] banned demonstrations, but street violence has flared almost every night since the weekend. 

Some reports say that as many as 15,000 foreigners have left •the country since September. Diplo­matic sources, however, estimated that up to 8,-000 foreigners, includ· ing some 5,500 American depen· dents, have left Iran in the last two months. 
About 45,000 Americans and 110,000 other foreigners were in Iran last January when religious demonstrators opposed to the shah's modernization reforms and political foes seeking reforms in his authoritarian rule took to the streets. 
"It's not exactly a mass exodus·· but it's not far off," a Western diplomat said. "However, it 
-~ 
.. 

should be noted tnat many men are simply getting their families out until things cool down." .. 
The Japanese foreign ministry in ' Tokyo said some Japanese busi· nessmen and their families were leaving Iran, but officials said they had no exact numbers available. About 7,000 Japanese are stationed in Iran. 
One Tokyo news agency said about 2,000 persons had returned • to Japan or had been evacuated to London, Vienna and other European cities. 
Western diplomats reported that the Iranian army has beefed up its guards protecting Americans and other foreigners working in the strike-bound oil fields in the south­west. 
Sec. Califano advocates equal spending in college sports 

Thursday, December 7, 1978 
:>:. 

last evening, a St. Nicholas Day party for children [of all sizes] was held in Lafortune Balltoom. The event which followed the lighting of the campus Christmas tree, featured a magician whose talents dazzled the audience. [photo by Mike Bigley] 

Since publication of the first regulations to implement the 1972 law outlawing sex discrimination on college campuses, the nation's federally assisted institutions of higher learning already have had more than three years to comply. 
Noting that there are three times as many men as women involved in competitive athletics, HEW said its policy ''bases compliance on parti· cipation rates, not enrollment, but requires that procedures be estab· lished to increase opportunities for 
[conUnued on page 14] WASHINGTON [AP]· The govern· ment announced yesterday it plans to require colleges and universities to spend the same per capita amount on women's sports as they do on men's--with key exceptions for football and so-called "non­discriminatory factors." 
The Department of Health, Education and Welfare also said that, after six years of indecision 
· over whether schools can tell boys how long to wear their hair, federal officials are opting out of sex discrimination regulations based on personal appearance. 
The proposed • 'policy interpre­
tation" put forward by HEW Secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr. would require immediate equaliza· tion of spending between the sexes . for athletic scholarships, recruiting and other "readily financially measurable benefits and opportun­
ities." 

The government would grant up 
to three additional years for schools 
to implement affirmative action 
programs to encourage women in 
athletic competition. 
the observer ____ Thursday, December 7, 1978 
WHC collects over $250 
'Quarter Night' ·;s successful 
by Brian McFeeten Nicaragua. , "We were very pleased at the response,'' Jim Martin of the WHC 
Enthusiastic students donated said. "Students were informed over $250 in a special collection and were walking up to the dining Tuesday night at the dining halls halls with quarters in their hands. 
on the Notre Dame and Saint Normally, we only get about SJO a Mary's campuses. "Quarter night'', commented Martin. Night" was the theme of the Sophomore Keith Melaragno, collection, sponsored by the World collecting at the North Dining Hall 
' 

Hunger Coalition (WHC) to buy said the number of contributions 
food and medical supplies for was surprising. , "Most students 
victims of the civil war in seemed to know it was a special 
r-News Briefs----.......... 
t=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==== National 
Nativity scenes banned 
RAPID CITY S.D. [AP]-Rapid City schools have cancelled student nativity scenes this Christmas season because of a lawsuit pending against similar programs in Sioux Falls. The lawsuit charges that religious Christmas programs are unconstitutional. Rapid City school administrators advised school principals to plan Christmas programs that do not dwell on Christianity. Glenn Woldt, director of Elementary Education, said students wi11 be allowed to sing religious Christmas carols along with secular music and songs and 
Hanukkah. · 
Cincinnati fans get revenge 
CINCINNATI [AP]-Unhappy Cincinnati Reds fans will have an outlet to vent their frustrations after losing manager Sparky Anderson and 12 time All-Star Pete Rose in one week. A Cincinnati nightclub is staging a "Lynch Dick Wagner Party" Sunday night. Wagner, president of Cincinnati's baseball club, fired Anderson last week and allowed Rose to slip away as a free agent. Lucy's in the Sky is planning a dart contest using Wagner's fact as a target. First prize will be two tickets to a Reds game. Second prize is four tickets. 
Russian freaks out over bill 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP] A Soviet trade uniollist got a jolt when she had her hair cut at a downtown salon and then asked for the bill ­S55. "That was expensive," Alexandra Reksha, a former construction engineer, laughed Tuesday. As part of the first Soviet Union trade unionist delegation to visit the San Francisco area since 1945, she said the Russians had found other prices high, too, especially in such areas housing. But she added that food herecosts considerably less. The tab for the haircut was being picked up by a coalition of local unions playing host to the three member Soviet delegation. 
·~===::=:===::::::================:::::::::::::::::::::::::-:::: locaI 
South Bend man contracts Legionnaires Disease 
BLOOMINGTON IND. [AP]-Another case of Legionnaires disease has been linked to the Indiana University campus, health officials reported. Blood test have confirmed that a 51 year old South Bend man who stayed overnight at the IU Memorial Union on Aug. 19 contracted the pneumonia-like illness. It was the 30th case of the illness connected with this college town. The man became ill a week 
after his visit and subsequently recovered, said Dr. Richard Telle, state epidemiologist. Of the 30 Bloomington cases, 27 of those stricken stayed in the Union Building, officials said. 
Weather 

A winter storm watch. Chance of light snow toward morning. Snow changing to freezing rain or possible rain later in the day. High in the mid JOs. Turning colder with rain changing to light snow at night and continuing tomorrow. Low tonight in the Mid 20s. High tomorrow in the low 30s. Cold and dry Saturday through Monday. highs in the 20s Saturday and in the 30s to low 40s Sunday and Monday. Lows in the upper teens and 20s. 
~On Campus Today _ ______. 
12:15 pm mass, with rev. robert griffin, university chaplain, Iafortune student center 
7:30pm lecture, rev. kongo lagois, of chicago's zen temple, sponsored by the theo dept, 104 o'shag . 
9pm forum, dean of students james roemer, sponsored by flanner hall academic commission, flanner hall pit 
collection, and they were very 
willing to donate." 

The money will be sent to the 
International Fund for Assistance 
to the Victims in Nicaragua, 
according to WHC chairperson 
Maria Garvey. Administering this 
fund is the Latin American Infor­
mation Center, which is working to 
bring attention and aid to the 
Nicaraguan people. 

Besides this specific goal, the 
special collection was aimed at 
publicizing WHC fund raising on 
the ND and SMC campuses. 

"Sometimes students don't really 
know where the money goes or who 
it's for," Nancy Dise of the WHC 
said. "This Nicaraguan aid is 
something tangible. It says, 'Yes, 
we're here for a purpose."' 

Garvey explained earlier that the 
WHC wants to educate students 
about hunger problems worldwide, 
as well as raise money. The special 
collection was to make students 
aware of and meet the urgent 
Nicaraguan need. . 

Martin spoke for the WHC in 
expressing gratitude to WSND, 
The Observer, and to all the 
students on both campuses who 
helped to publicize ''Quarter 
Night." 

In February, the WHC plans to 
hold another special collection for 
the poor of Appalachia. One 
member noted that the collection 
would take place near St. 
Valentine's Day and suggested a 
title: "Have a Heart." 
Sophomore class organizes party 
The Sophomore Class Christmas Party will take place tomorrow from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Punch, cookies. Christ­mas music and disco music will be provided. All sophomores are encouraged to come and share the Christmas spirit. 
~ 


::i-

NICKlE'S 
Cans of Milier, lite, Bud, Strohs, Pabst, Busch 
S O~ympia 60¢ 
Greyhound Ax· The cure for college blahs. 

Texas Club provides rider service 
Texas Club President H.oman Macia has requested that club members who need a ride or riders for Christmas break call him at 234-2389 by Dec. 8. Members also are reminded that club directories are available in Farley Lounge. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sherry Mummert 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Dave  
Brosh  
Cope  Readers  :  Tim  Joyce,  
John McGrath, EPS  ·  

Layout Staff: John McGrath, Bea Witzleben Editorial layout: Rosemary Mills Features layout:Karen Caruso Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists:Tricia Meehan, Rosie Rogers, Beth Willard Early Morning Typist:Lisa DiValerio Day Editor: Keith Melaragno Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo; classifieds by BUB. 
Photographer: Mike Bigley 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday exc.pt durtnt ex1m Mid vaation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notnt Dame and Saint Mary's Collete. Subscripttons may be p11rd'lased tor no per year cs I o per semester) from The Observer, fi.O. Box Q, Notre Dllme, Indiana 46556. Second daiS po1t..e paid, Notre Dame. Indiana, 4U56 . . The Observer 11 a member of ttl• Auoclated PNu. All repro­duction "-hta,.... re1•rvect. 

It's a feeling that slowly descends upon you. The exams, the pop tests, the required reading, the hours at the library, the thesis­they won't go away. 
But you can. This weekend, take off, say hello to your friends, see the sights, have a great time. You'll arrive with money in your pocket because your Greyhound trip doesn't take that much out of it. 
If you're feeling tired, depressed and exhausted, grab a Greyhound and split. It's a sure cure for the blahs. 
• 

Greyhouod Service  
To  One-way  Round-Trip Leave  Arrive  
Chicago  s 8.10  $15.40  10:20 am  11:15 am  
Cleveland  $22.05  $41.90  7:00am  1:50pm 
Pittsburgh  $32.80  $62.35  12:50 pm  11:20 pm 
Detroit  $17.15  $32.60  11:35 am  4:55pm 
Milwaukee  $13.50  $25.65  1:50pm  6:00pm  

Phone 

~. Call 287-6541 
GO­

Thursday, December 7, 1978 
·the o~sarver 
3 




ND seeks balance of research and teaching 
when Fr. Hesburgh took over," side to doing such work. ing," the provost admitted, add­lined in the faculty handbook. ThisEditor's Note: This article is the 
concluding segment in the series O'Meara remarked. "Of course you can abuse it by ing, "but our emphasis has been process is only used in extreme examining research at Notre Dame. The provost explained that be­getting so involved in research that , on building up scholarship even cases, however, such as "profes­This final article will outline the fore the Hesburgh administration, your teaching obligation may further without hurting teaching." sional incompetepce," the convic­
Administration's policies and views there was research activity at Notre . suffer," the provost said. Stressing that ''we must reach a tion of a felony, or "desregard for on the topic. Dame, but it was done by only a Teaching is still important healthy balance (between research the Catholic character of this few individuals. "It wasn't the O'Meara noted this in his speech and teaching)," O'Meara crun­institution." 
In an interview last week, Uni­main thrust of the University," he to new faculty members in August. mented "It's not as if we have been "Perhaps the job security (that versity Provost Timothy O'Meara added. He made it clear that research is fluctuating ... there has never been comes with tenure) is excessive," discounted the fears of some O'Meara explained ~hat the important, but also indicated that it such a time." remarked the provost. faculty members that there has strong point about research is the had not taken precedence over Assistant Provost Sr. John Jones also agreed that there are been any new stress on research at fact that it makes a professor good teaching as a criteria for Miriam Jones echoed O'Meara's problems in regard to complete Notre Dame. "much more alive to his subject" obtaining tenure. viewpoint, saying, "In a place likt compliance with research expecta­
"The emphasis on research is as well as keeping classes lively ''It is true that other schools ours, or any place worth its salt, tions on campus. nothing new .. .it's been an ongoing and interesting, but he did concede have placed excessive emphasis on you've got to put them in balance." "In the case of individuals, one 
and growing thing that started that there may also be a negative research to the detriment of teach-; Tenure system tied closely may be better in teaching, but The subject of tenure is central to everything works out as long as the emphasis on research, because you've got an overall blend," she
Homosexual discharged 
to attain tenure, prospective candi­concluded. dates must be active in research When asked if she thought Notre work, according to O'Meara. Dame has a consistent blend, the
Court orders case reopened 
Obviously, most of the pressure assistant provost commented, ''I is on untenured faculty to produce don't know of a campus in the WASHINGTON [AP]·A federal an earlier ruling by U.S. District found in Matlovich--the failure of such work, but what happends once country where you wouldn't find 
appeals court yesterday ordered a person attains tenure? the blend as well as the extremes."
Judge Gerhard A. Gesell, who had the service to articulate adequately 
the Air Force to reopen the case of upheld the discharge on grounds By its definition, tenure is "per­What makes research important? 
why it determined not to retain" Leonard P. Matlovich, who was that there is no constitutional right Berg. manence of appointment." Most Looking specifically at the defi­discharged in 1975 after acknow­to engage in homosexual activity. faculty members, once they get nition of the important research,
Berg, a grapuate of the Naval
ledging he was a homosexual. In an opinion written by Judge tenure, still remain active even O'Meara remarked, "You can't
Academy, was assigned to the USS
The appeals court made a similar . though they now supposedly have consider research's merit by
Oscar H. Davis, th~ appeals court 
Little Rock when an enlisted man
ruling in the case of a Navy ensign. said it does not ch enge the right Ijob security, but there appear to be punching out computer cards .. .it's
accused him of attempting to
Matlovich's discharge prompted of the Air Force to discharge some exception. got to be good stuff."
perform a homosexual act. Berg
nationwide protests from the gay homosexuals. , "Certainly there are some In his August address to the new
admitted being a homosexual but
community and Matlovitch, now But Davis said tile Air Force had · faculty members who are not active faculty, O'Meara stated that re­
denied the enlisted man's accv
living in San Francisco, became a failed to give a ".pecific reason" in research,'' admitted O'Meara. search had to be "first class by
sation. He was discharged in June
prominent spokesman for gay why Matlovich sf10uld not have He added that there is a very national standards."
1976.
rights. fallen under an fexemption that complicated process of review out-[continued on page 4]
Matlovich, 35, a decorated
The three-judge panel reversed allows some homo~exuals to stay in 
Vietnam veteran who served 12
the service. . [ 
years in the Air Force, was
There was no unmediate work on
Security searches what step the Aj! Force will now discharged in 1975 with the rank of technical sergeant.
take or whether. the government

for owner of Financial Aid 
will appeal the· decision to the His battle to remain in the Air Supreme Court. · Force, which has been made the The appeals court, in a compan­subject of a television movie,
stolen bike 
ion case, ordered the Navy to began in 1975 when he admitted to .review its discharge of Vernon E. his superior officer that he was a 
1979-80 Applications
The Security Department has Berg m, a Navy ensign, who homosexual. He insisted that his apprehended a youth in connection following the Matlovich case also homosexual relationships were with the theft of a copper-colored acknowledged being a homosexual. limited to consenting adults and Now Available 10-speed men's bicycle from the In ordering a review of the Berg that they occurred in private, while Zahm Hall bike rack on Oct. 8. case, the court said that his case he was off duty and away from the 
THE -HUDDLE WILL BE CLOSED 
I 
I 
• 

for renovation eHecti~e mon. 12/11/78 
; 

until 1I 15/79 Public cqfeteria will be open 
( 

until midnight beginni~g 12/11 thru 12/20 Extra service Burgers, frie~, snack items will be 
i 

available in addition to the cafe's regular food. The complete holiday schedU:Ie is posted at the cafe. The library vending machines will oHer lull service until midnight thr., finals. We appreciate your cooperation and continued patronage. 
HAPPY HOLIDAYSIII 



Scholatships Gtants Loans Jobs 
OHice of Financial Aid 
. Room 111 of :Ad Bldg. 
lilt?~() S~£ llit?~trt? 

lclwe~rcl Al~t?(;!§ 

Seating is wry linited. The audience wii"l be seated randomy Within the environrnmtal setting of the play. Rease note the Wednesday performaiu:e 
S[lrn IJI U'l cll_tJ~Iillr1 AtJcllt()rltJrn Wt?cl.-~c.t. Ut?£. ()_-<J 




,.--lll==----------------------·
I apartment too small? I 
I Notre I J Dame I 

·r Ave. Apts
I . . r-2 bedrooms completely furnished 
~·1--com plate kitchen /l-off-street parking J// 
l"'"t.IP to 4 students /,/ l-s280-300/month ,'
I , I ,' ~ call234-6647 ,' -.--.. tf11!!1.!'!'~
A-. 

ll------------------~-----~--~-1-----------~ 
Joseph Wall, d1rector of Security, asks that the owr.er of the Schwinn Continental contact security to prove ownership so that the court case may proceed. 
Observer 
publishes 

final issue 
Tomorrow's issue of The Observer will be the last issue of the semester. 
The initial issue for the spring semester will be Jan. 18,1979. 
Fall subscribers who wish to extend their subscription for the spring semester should remit $10, payable to The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, ln. before Jan. 1,1979 to insure delivery of the Cotton Bowl wrap-up and 'year in review, 'which appears in the initial issue of the second semester. This cutoff date will be strictly adhered to by the Circulation Dept. No compli­mentary copies will be issued. 
has ''the same defect...as we have military base. 



Thursday, December 7, 1978
the observer 
Free University Deadline Extended to december 12 

teacher sign·ups at 
student union office caii John at 1155 

This semester break take advantage of Continental's price break on air­fares. We'll take you to the snow in Colorado, the sun on either coast, or the warmth of your family circle. And you~l save enough to live it up once you get there. Fly anyplace Continental flies on the mainland and save up to 50% off regular Coach, depending on when and where you go. Of course, there are some restrictions and you must purchase your tickets in advance. 
Even if you get a sudden itch to travel, Continental can save you some scratch without an advance purchase. We have the only system-wide* discount fare without restrictions. It'll save you up to 20% any night, 10% any day that we have seats available. · 
Call your Campus Representative, Travel Agent or Continental Airlines. we·d love to give you a break. 
•mainland only 
We really move our tail for you. 


COI\rfiN-=,NTAJ-AIR~INES 8 
~· T. . ' ro:lJ Bird With the Golden Tad. 


Ariman receives grant to study effect of earthquakes on'lifelines' 
SOUTH BENIJ lnd.[AP]-Teoman Ariman's research on ways to prevent earthquake damage to a city's underground "lifelines" stems from first hand knowledge of such disasters. 
Ariman, an engineering pro­fessor at the University of Notre Dame, took part in weekly earth­quake drills as a child in Turkey. 
And when a quake hit in 1938, Ariman said everyone -including the teacher-forgot the procedures. 
"When theteacher gnaled with a whistle, we were to dive under the desks and absolutely not leave the classroom," he said. "One morn­ing I remember hearing strange noises and the hanging lamps started to swing. I was at the front of a group running out of the room, and when I looked back, I saw the teacher very close behind me." 
The Professor's research focuses on the underground "lifelines" vital to the city. including water and sewage, natural gas, liquefied gas, oil, power, communications and transportation lines. 1 
,. 

The problem is complicated, Ariman explained, because one break to a major transmission line can affect the entire network of lines involved. A city without clean water is in danger of epidemic and a city without water cannc.t fight fires, Ariman pointed out. 
Only abo.ut 20 percent of the damage from the 1906 San Fran­cisco earthquake was structural, Ariman said. The rest resulted from quake related fires since · buried water lines were broken, he added. 
"If a quake of the same intensity -about 8.1 on the Richter scale ­were to hit the San Francisco Bay area today, they estimate property damage alone would total $6 billion," he said. 
Because of his background in mechanical engineering, the National Science Foundation awar­ded Ariman a two-year $135,000 grant to study the earthquake response and seismic resistant design of buried gas pipelines. 
Ariman said he plans to develop the first computer model of a pipeline as a cylindrical shell rather than a one dimensional solid beam. 

His researchers will also survey about 500 gas utility and trans­mission companies in North Amer­ica, the professor said. 
Ariman said he will travel to Japan to observe experimental earthquake engineering work being done there. 
The goal of the research, he explained, is to develop design guidelines for making failure-resis­tant pipe Ariman said he hopes the guidelines will become part of construction codes within a decade or so. 
Ceramic club 
to hold annual sale 
With only a few weeks before Christmas, the Notre Dame cera­mic club is having its annual Christmas sale. The sale begins on Dec. 11 and runs until Dec. 13 in the Great Hall of 0'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The items being sold have been made by both undergraduate as well as graduate members of the club. They offer 1 fine selection of functional and decorative ceramics. 
These durable items are comp­letely safe as well as dishwasher and oven proof. They are all reasonably priced and would make excellent christmas gifts. 
ND seeks balance of research and teaching 
[continued from page 3] The second ranking official in the administration explained that for research to be considered impor­tant by such standards, letters of evaluation from 1 'established faculty at other institutions of significance" are essential. He also stated, when questioned as to show research is evaluated within the University. that "you don't compare with first class research, let us say. in electrical engineering, with first class re­search in history...you have to make good judgements taking into 
consideration  the  discipline  in  
which  you're  considering  the  
person."  

What is the University doing to help? 
It is clear that the University expects a lot from its faculty, but according to O'Meara, tht is the most important ingredient to good research. 
"You don't always need equip­ment for scholarship, the provost said, adding, '' you shouldn't con­fuse excellence in researc.'t and scholarship with the amount Jf lab space." 
He added however that the 
University has also taken steps to improve research through the construction of new facilities. He pointed to the completion of the Computer and Math Center, Radiation Labora­tory, and the Lobund Laboratory as examples of this effort. 
He also indicated that current projects such as the new Engineer­ing Building and the planned chemical building show that the University is still progressing. 
"We've come a long way," the provost said. adding, "but we have more to do...we're not just con­tinuing our programs, but we're working to make them grow." 
Explaining that "a strong insti­tution that takes its responsibility for research seriously is stronger because of it," O'Meara con­cluded, " basically, I think that the faculty does agree with what believe." 


' 

.. 
Thursday, December 7, 1978 
5

the observer 
-

Kahn concedes 

Government must allow price of energy to go up· 
We'll gift wrap your favorite 
Professors Free 
FIRST TIME EVER 
special holiday discount sale 20% off on great gift books (many autograph~d) from 

The Universi of Notre Dame Press 
Friday, December 8, 9am.-Jpm ·Great Hall' of O'Shaughnessy 
Featured authors include: 
E. Ascher, T. Schlereth, E. Sandeen, 
J. Dunne,W. Carlton, S. Hauerwas, 
J. Dolan, J. Samora, D. Surrell, M. Francis, ano E. McMullin 
Also: Chet Grant and 
Dan Devine, Marshall Smelser, Elie Wiesel, Mircea Eliade 
WASHINGTON [AP]· Alfred Kahn, the Carter administration's chief inflation fighter, said yester­day the government soon may have 
to  choose  between  rationing  un­ 
leaded  gasoline  or  doubling  its  
price.  

Kahn, chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, said a panel of economists should have a report ready within a week on how the shortage of unleaded fuel and steady price increases in home heating oil will affect the fight again:;t inflation. 
But , Kahn added that he's already decided for himself that the reason for the spot shortages of unleaded gasoline which most late­model cars require-is continuation of Government controls over the price of gasoline and other fuels. 
Conceding that ''the tension between the inflation problem on one hand and the energy problem 
The first 41 Hottest Lips on Campus" contest was held last night at Goose's Nest. The event proved to be an interesting experience, especially for the winner. [photo by Mike Bigley] 
on the other is tearing us apart,'' he added, "In the long run I believe the government has to let the price of energy go up." 
The longer the domestic price of oil is held below the world market price, the sharper the increase will be when controls finally end, Kahn said, adding: "There's no way I can resolve that dilemna. I can't find a panacea. " 
Kahn testified before the con­gressional Joint Economic Com­mitte which is investigating whether President Carter's pro­gram of voluntary wage and price guidelines has a change of success against inflation. 
Rep. Margaret Heckler, R-Mass. told Kahn that many Americans have trouble understanding why the government is fighting price increases in every business except the oil industry. 
She said recent price increases for heating oil already had led to one incident of violence against an oil company in Massachusetts. Unless the problem is solved, she said, it will lead to a "social upheaval" that wiU mate other aspects of the inflation fight pale in comparison. 
Speaking to reporters later, Kahn was asked if the choice could be a 100 percent increase in the price of unleaded fuel or consumer rationing. He answered affirma­tively. 
Later, he issued a statement saying he though his comment had been misinterpreted. 
''The Federal government is not, so far as I know, considering federal rationing oJ unleaded gaso­line, and I did not say it was," the statement said. "Nor is it con­sidering sharply raising or doubl­ing the price as has been reported, and I did not say it was. 
"I said only that, if indeed price 

Judge grants plea delay to mayor's accused killer 
SAN FRANCISCO (APJ· Former 
Supervisor Dan White, described 
by his lawyer in a "prolonged state 
of shock," heard a judge read 
charges yesterday accusing him of 
murdering the mayor and a super­
visor. He was granted a week's 
delay in entering a plea. 
A report in the Long Island, N.Y., newpaper Newsday, mean­while, said White told police in a purported confession that he killed Mayor George Moscone because the mayor refused to reappoint him to the board and then killed Supervisor Harvey Milk because "Harvey smirked at me." 
White, a 32 year old, former policeman and fireman who could face the gas chamber if convicted, stood quietly in the courtroom packed with reporters and family during the brief proceedings. 
Municipal Court Judge R.J. Rey­nolds granted the delay after attomy Douglas Shmidt, hired since White's first court appear­ance one week ago, said he needed extra time to consult with his client before the arraignment could be completed. 
White's only statement in court came when the judge asked him if he realized he was waiving his right to a speedy trial. He answered in a clear voice: "I do, your honor." 
Outwardly, White appeared calm. He wore an orange prison jumpsuit and stood without hand­cuffs next to his attorney in the small, heavily guarded courtroom. Spectators were frisked and had to walk through a metal detector. 
Moscone ann Milk wereshot to 
death at City Hall, on Nov. 27, 
shortly after White entered the 
Mayor's office to ask for his job 
back. He had resigned Nov. 10, 
saying he could not support his 
family on a Supervisor's $9,600 
annual sal'!ry. 
The Newsday report quoted un­
named police sources as saying 
that White told police, "I asked 
him (Moscone) why (he would not 
reappoint White) and he said 
because it would be bad politics.'' 
D.C. club offers bus home 
The Washington D.C. Area Club will be offering a bus home for Christmas break. Interested students are to sign up in LaFortune today from 7-9 p.m. A $20 deposit is required. Any questions, call Carl at 3311. 
Hair Styling 
for men and women who like to look 
regulation  is  responsible  for  a  
shortage,  rationing  • either  by  
motorists  having  to  line  up  at  

service stations or by the govern­ment-or some price increase are the only possible results. 
"At no time did I suggest, even hypothetically, what the extent of that increase may be -if any.'' 
The three committee members who attended agreed with Kahn on one thing: Mandatory wage-price controls over most of the economy will not work. The Committee 
0€velop th€ 

tReacheR's haBit 
qooo stuOy hastts always 
make the Ot~~€R€nce. so Ooes eat1nc; at tReacheR's. BRin q youR coupon· now. 
a~t€R an you B€lonc; at th€ heaO or th€ class. 
1 coupon I1 50¢ o~r II cn1c1<en & ch1ps \ I 
1 $1.99 value roR $1.49 ·,\ Arthuflt"Dicl.n-S. I 
,_________________________,
L-~~~~~~l~Ua~----~~-------J 
COUQOn --. I 5o¢ or~ ~/ 1
> / 
ORI(jtnal. ~ISh & Chtps 
I $1.79 value ~OR $1.29
i-•·-----CjOOO thRU 12/15/78 ·-------~.._ south senO, 1733 n. n~onwooo m1shawaka, 401 ltncoln way west 

issued a sWf report concluding that even a congressional debate over controls would worsen infla-· tion. 
He said he expects to have ready next month a recommendation on whether the $2.65 hourly minimum wage should be allowed to increase to $2.90 as scheduled on Jan. 1 or whether it should be delayed or scaled back. There is widespready agreement among Economists that the increase could deal a sharp blow to the fight against inflation. 



*The Observer an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged EDITORIAL BOARD Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Ed1torial Editor Phil Cackley Cor\ Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Bnen Sports Editor Doug Christian Photo .Editor  
Thursday, December 7, 1978  

i I i 
' 
•I. •I 
..' 
'.
')
\I
. I 
i) 
~ l 
:1 
'l 
I ! 
i 
! l 
i 

1 
·~ 
\, 
As :n any complex community, controversial issues arise in which conflicting parties make appeals to 'justice' or more explicitly to "our right.'' Current tensions include faculty hiring and tenure practices, the grounds-keepers and the Teamsters, university investment policies, and for students: privacy, drinking, housing. That legal skills and political maneuvers come into play seems healthy. Aggression unexpressed not only is often personally destructive but also introduces even worse evils into the community. Apathetic submission, always succumbing to the desire of being thought of as a ''nice person,'' private gossipy dis­gruntlement are not evidences of personal or community growth. If we are to act aggressibely (as we must) on behalf of ourselves or an interest group, rules--formal and informal--facilitate resolution of differences and very often a greater sense of friendship in a common purpose. Such procedures exer­cised at the smallest level of interpersonal relations can be simi­lar to those found in Bach's The Intimate Enemy: How to fight Fair In Love and Marriage. (Of course, I do not rule out the nonviolent, and 
:~ often disruptive, resistance that seemed morally and legally neces­sary in the late sixty's and early seventy's. On a less tragic level, we can now buy Gallo's wine (if we are twenty-one now in Michigan) or eat iceberg lettuce without a sense of complicity in an unequal power struggle. These disagreements about the running of the family enterprise are not what I want to talk about. It's rather the increasing evidence of themes of justice and rights in the university's specific 'business': intellectual development. Some visibility of this focus can be found in the listing in the Observer of d<'7.ins of courses dealing with cc.mrses about justice or justice issues, the appointment of a Uni­versity Committee on Justice, Student Government Third World educational projects, faculty col­laborative efforts toward justice: between the Law School and the Department of Government, between Theology and Business, or the tripartite course with repre­sentatives from law, ethics, genetics. Very recent additions are multidiscriplinary courses such as War, Law, Ehtics (directed toward ROTC students, though not prim­arily) or the new Human Rights, Power, Revelation. Why Socrates was killed 
All letters and columns must be typed. The name, address and phone number of the author must be Included, and the letter or column must be signed. Letters or columns received which are Weg­ible or unsigned wru not be printed. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions for grammati­cal errors, length and usage. 
Not acceptable 

DeBI' Editor: I would like to express my opinion in regard to the South African divestment issue at Notre Dame. Although I do not profess any knowledge of the financial advantages or dis;ldvantages in­volved in divesting at this time, neither do I consider possible monetary gains or losses as accept­able criteria in a decision of this sort. The economy of the Republic of South Africa is undeniably a very successful one. It is also undeni­able that its success rate is directly attributable to the black labor force in South Aftica. Black South Africans comprise 80% of the entire labor force in South Africa. It is fact that the economy is 
justice notes========================================== and editorials concerning the pro­posed SU record store. I have noted little or no input from people who actually operate record stores on or around the campus. Someone 

Justice and Thinking 
· 

A question surely comes: How do you 'justify' these efforts to raise questions of justice whenever pos­sible or even try to make justice the organizing principle of the whole university? Haven't our official spokesmen described eloquently wnough what makes Notre Dame 'catholic?' Why not charity? Don't the relative successes in the ACC and stadium of games and concerts bring us together in ways we "Nill never forget? 
Although partisans in inter­national and domestic conflicts, as well as disinterested persons and groups trying to create a "better world order,'' rely on claims to the "doing of justice" and "observing human rights," and are generally well aware of the historical circum-­stance of who is likely to benefit or lose from a revised tax law or government regulation or changes in the international economic sys­tem, they may well be embarrassed by questions such as "Where do these rights come from?" If these rights are legally formulated, what group interests brought them into existence. What do you mean by justice, anyway? There seem to be as many theories as there are philosophers. And then what about the ambivilence of the churches toward questions of justice through the centuries? 
As Socrates well appreciated, we all have some notions, however vague, about the social 'realities' that sturcture our lives: virture, government, friendship, love, duty, education, and, or course, justice. Yet, on being confronted by such a fellow as Socrates, we often find that what is so easily grasped in the value enclave to which we belong is not so readily defended and articulated in terms of -rinciples. Were we given the majic of Gyges' .ring--the power to make ourselves invisible at will-­would we find reasons for not taking the king's wife and wealth, and at the same tim_e making ourselves appear as the most honorable person in the land? 
under the less than 'ideal' cond­itions we find in every society, norms of fair play are supported by some "sense of injustice." We are outraged by those who violate the ethics of queuing, by the bully who beats the smaller kids. by the card player who cheats, by the criminal justice system that discriminates arbitrarily )procedurally and/or in fact), by those who lie, break contracts, defraud, etc. On the other hanc, to what extent are we aware, or ever outraged, at the harm we (as individuals and mem­bers of priviliged groups,) cause unintentionally to usually unknown persons, by the way the economic­political-social order actually works? 
Justice as Synthesis? 

What makes the university enterprise unique is that it refuses to restrict questioning, though certain forms of "departmental­ism" and career goals tend to confine our horizons. No earnest "seeker after truth," it seems to me, would like to think of himself as "unjudy" ot "very limited" in his views of the world. Questions such as these surely must arise: Just what is justice? Why should I be just? What are the implications of this research of learning for myself, for society, for a better ·world? Why, since selectivity in the use of my time in inevitable, as I devoting myself to this course or major rather than to something 
else? 
To most of us Notre Dame is a 

"very spec~ial place." A central 
element of this experience is what 
the Committee on University 
Priorities in 1973 referred to as the 
"Catholic character of the univer­
sity.'' no c.ne, as far as I know, has 
complained that this 'extra dimen­
sion' has limitP 1 academic free­
dom; in fact, ; enhances it, as 
Newman observed, by the univer­
sity of iP~ersests it promotes. 
Yet, in view of the healthy 

pluralism, philosophically and rei­
; ;inus, on this campus, I would 
~:..·ge that 'justice' can provide the 
contest, the "organizing prin­
ciple," for our diverse inquiries. In 
decision-making, justice is a 
normative "mediating concept." It 
is sustained, on one hand, by our 
ultimate belief about the meaning 
of human existence and, on the 
other, by what we know about the 
particulars of our social, political, 
economic world. 
Although dichotomies are gener­ally offensive and inaccurate, I think we are beginning to organize our eductional experiences more around the world than in our minds. Becoming a "global citizen'' is intellectual pursuits and actual concern is more than a rhetorical slogan--especially if we take the bible and Socrates ser­iously. We may well never define justice or know in a satisfying way what our commitment should be, but the very process of trying may well be what is finally formative in our education at Notre Dame. 
My immediate 'right' for saying this is a statement from the 1973 COUP report: 
In a world in which com­
munication and transportat­
ion are fast shrinking, we 
should increase the sensitivi­
ty of ·our curriculuma to 
international considerations. 
Our foreign-ycu programs 
are to be encouraged and 
meshed wherever possible 
with ohgoing area studies 

~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!P. 0. 
dependent upon this labor force, and the economy has prospered as a result. Ironically enough, how­ever, blacks have been denied virtually all political, economic, and social rights in South Africa ·· rights due them if not by virtue of their human-ness, by virtue of the indispensable economic role they have played in South Africa. South African companies enjoy high capital gain records because so little of their profits go towards wages. Remaining surplus earn­ings are re-invested for further gains, to the companies' benefit and at the black labor force's expense. Because they are not allowed (by law) to organize, negotiate, or collectively bargain to any appreciable extent, blacks have no legal means of combatting said economic conditions. It is the black labor force, upon which the South African economy depends, that least profits from South African economic success. 
The situation is a case-in-point of blatant economic injustice, not to mention the social and political 
• 
injustices that prevail as a result. The fact that this university, a university that prides itself on its Christian ideals, is directly or indirectly involved in practices completely antithetical to Christian values, saddens and infuriates me. I strongly feel a meaningful re­evaluation of Notre Dame's present investment policy in South Africa is in order. To be meaningful, such a re-evaluation would require con­siderations over and above finan­cial ones. Only then can the total picture be perceived. I cannot help but conclude that, to date, only the financial part of the picture has been painted ... otherwise, I am convinced that our investment policy would not be what it pre­sently is. 
Terri Walsh 

·Someone in the business 
DeBI' Editor: 
I have read with great interest the recent series of Observer articles 
basil o'leary involved in the record business can programs. Also, in the light best provide ideas as to what of Notre Dame's character as problems may be encountered. an independent Catholic The opinions of these people have university, transcending been heard byFr.Van Wolvlearbut merely parochial or national not by the students of the SU. 
interests, special priority The main problem that may 
should be given to those occur is a buildup of an inventory programs which seek under­of slow or non-selling records. standing of Third World and Record store can only return 1So/oor 
purchases to their distributors and
non-Western peoples, 
expecially those wounded by this includes defective albums. poverty. People should know from exper­
[Professor O'Leary is Coordinator of the Program in Nonviolence] 
art buchwald========================::::: 

Throwing the Dollar 
Washington·· The President pushed a button, and Gerry Rafshoon immediately showed up in the Oval Office. 
"Gerry," the President asked, ''what are you going to do today to improve my image?" 
Rafshoon was stumped. It was the first day since he tool<-·on the job as President Carter's image­maker that he hadn't come up with an idea. 
"Maybe we could fly over New York state in a helicopter and see the snow damage," Rafshoon said. 
"Was there much snow damage in New York?" 
"No," Rafshoon said, "But that would be good for your image. I can see the headline now: 'Presi­dent Inspects Lack of Snow Dam­age in New York State. Says His Anti-Snow Policy Is Paying Off.'" 
"I think you're reaching, Gerry. Isn't there anything I could do to dramatize my fight against inflation?" 
Rafshoon looked out the window. Suddenly he said, "I think I have it. 
Why don't you throw a silver dollar across the Potomac to show how much faith you have in our mone­tary system? The last one who did it was George, Washington." 
The President thought about it a moment. "Can you really throw a dollar across the Potomac? I thought the Washington silver dollar legend was discredited by Jack Anderson in one of his columns." 
"Anderson printed the story based on the fact that his source used a paper dollar. Obviously you can't throw a paper dollar over the Potomac.'' 
"But," the President said, "if you made a dollar into a paper airplane, and the wind was blowing right, you could sail it across the Po­tomac. I learned that at Anna­polis." 
"It's too risky. Mr. President. If you sailed a paper dollar across the Potomac as an airplane, and it nose-dived into the water, the dollar would sink on every money market in the world. I think we should stay with a silver dollar." 
President Carter said, "There's 
one thing wrong with your plan, 
Gerry. The silver dollar is out of 
circulation--the new dollars are 
much smaller, and if I'm going to 
throw one I will need all the weight 
I can get." 
"We-could have the Treasury make a special silver dollar with ~ tiny jets in it which could give it enough lift to get to the other side." 
"That would be cheating, Gerry, and I promised the people I would never lie to them. We have to have someone else try to throw it over secretly, to see if it can actually be done. I don't want to go out there on the banks of the river with all the press covering me and fail to do it.'' 
"Good thinking, Mr. President. We could get someone from the Washington Redskins to try it out first. The question is, should it be Joe Theismann or Billy Kilmer?" 
''They both could be sacked,'' the President said. "Can't we find someone in the government?" 
"What about Mike Blumenthal? He's secretary of the Treasury. If the press finds out about it, he could always say he was testing the new American silver dollar to see if it would fly.'' 
''All right. Get back to me and let 
me know if it's possible." 
Rafshoon returned a few days later, shaken. "Blumenthal threw a silver dollar with all his might and it only went halfway across the Potomac.'' 
"How did he explain it?" "He showed me the labor stati­stics for November. It seems the dollar wiii only go half as far as it did 10 years ago." 
(c) 1978, Los Angeles Times 
S~·ndicate 
• 


ience how many bad (warped, 
scratched) albums are sold now. 
The people who SU has in mind to 
run the store now may know music 
well enough to avoid this. What 
happens though, if three years 
from now, ~U does not have a good 
manager and he guesses wrong 
about what to stock. The inventory 
problem described above wil1 re­
sult. The word guesses means just 
that, no one in the record business 
can know what will sell. This is the 
risk that I believe SU does not fear 
as much as it should. 
The element of risk is also the line 
that divides the Student Union 
from a student run or off-campus 
merchandising business. The SU is 
a service concern and may not have 
any sort of merchandise inventory 
or any experience in managing one. 
Planner Records or River City 
Records both carry merchandise 
inventories -records -at their own 
risk. The SU store would impose 
this risk on the entire student bodv, 
solely for the benefit of students 
who buy records. I suspect this 
may be 80-85%of the students, but 
is .it fair to the minority? ~ The SU record sale announced in Monday's Observer gets around these problems, but at best is a once or twice a semester project because of the huge amounts of record keeping to do with others. 
Finally. what happens in the 
future if the SU store is forced to liquidate as Bill Roche has cone­, eded may possibiy happen, if no manager can be found some years 
CONGRESS­~5/R.. MAN ROY8AL 7HI515RJCK. H&RE! R&Jf&RN, OVER
j 
AT lH/3 "POSr::


from now? The Bookstore's rack­jobber will be long gone because he cannot fight a non-profit business. Once the SU store opens, h_e would be gone within six months to a year because his volume would shrink drastically (especially so if the SU gets record store credit cards). Planner Records willoe gone at the end of this year, as it shnds now, and this will leave students with no on-campus record stores at all. The SU store will have been to the detriment of the students. 
What then is the answer to the problem? The answer is more competition to keep the Book­store's prices down. The amount of money that record profits contri­butes to the University's general fund is probalby less than $1.00 per student so this should not be a major factor in such a decision. We don't and probably never will know what the amount really is. But, more competition will force the Bookstore to keep a better invent­ory. The students will benefit from better prices and better selection. 
Gem·ger E. Molitor PLANNER RECORDS 

Most itnpressive 
Dear Editor: Since our return to South Bend many people have asked "how was the trip?" We found our most frequent response was "the stud­ents were great.'' Yes, the · students were more impressive than Disneyland, Fox's Inn, West­wood, and Beverly Hiils put toget­her. We were impressed and made proud by your cooperation and behavior at the hotel, and the hotel staff could not say enough good things about you. They look forward to the Class of '81 but what a reputation you have given them to live up to. We were very proud of your united and intense support 
of the Irish on Saturday. We, For low, Continental, American and United were impressed and grate­ful for the patience and cooperation exercised on the return trip. 
We could go on and on about specific students and specific in­stances that occurred reflecting the bond and goodness of the ND/SMC Class of '79. Let it suffice to say WE ARE ND/SMC! 
Mary Laverty 

John M. RPM Directors of Student Activities Saint Mary's College 
University of Notre Dame 

Shocked 
Dear Editor: 
I was shocked at Father Dennis 
Evenson's attack on Father John L. 
Van Wolvlear, C..S.C in his letter to 
the Editor printed December 4, 
1978. Father Evenson may not 
agree with Father·van Wolvlear's decision. All we11 and good. Let the issue be debated on its merits with the presumption that both sides are represented· by reason­able people of good will. I object to 
calling Father Van Wolvlear's 
honesty and integrity into question. 
Father Van Volvlear has occup­ied several positions of leader-· ship within the Holy Cross Fathers. Notre Dame t:fighschool (sic).&the University of Portland. He is widely regarded as an excellent priest. He has demonstrated· priestly leadership. His honesty and integrity are beyond question. 
Father Evenson calls for an apology. If an apology is in order it should come from Father Evenson. 
In~identally, the Vice-President for Student Affairs is Father John 
L. Van Wolvlear, C. S.C. Van Wolvlear is the man's last name not Wolvlear. 
Michael J. Heppen, C.S.C. 

Another synonym 
In a re~ent Scholastic (Nov. 19). the article "A View From the Top" began wtth the statements, "Catholicism. Notre Dame. Father Theodore Hes~urgh. SynoJ.Jyms... " I would like to add another synonym-·Big Busmess. 
As a p~o~~inent .c~~holic university, it appears that Notre Dame has the respons~bthty to t~t.tlate creative responses to the role Catholic teachings and bus~ness ~ect~wns must ~lay t.oget~6r. I'J? referring specifically to the. spec tal obh~<~:tton a Cathohc umverstty has m making its investments soc~~~ly and po~1ttcally respo':lsible. The ~oard of Trustees recent policy de~tstot~ re~ardmg corporate mvestments 10 South Africa and elsewhere is ~mmagmat.tve and leaves little doubt as to whether Notre Dame even mt~n~s to mcorporate Catholic teachings into any of its major business decistons. ' 
Notre D~me w.ill basically follow what is known as the Sullivan principles. . Alon~ wtth this, ~ather Hesb~rgh claims he will write companies who 111":est 10 South Afnca. encouragmg them to recognize black trade unions. Thts type of an approach seems naive. simplistic and unreliable Faith in Father Hesburgh's word can only be taken so far. Just. ask the grounds~eepers.. I. doubt Father Hesburgh will allow his intere:;ts in human nghts overnde or restrict his "magic wanC'." ability to insure a 
prompt $130.000.000. endowment contribution schedule. Stern American corporate decisions to limit "business as usual" 'tn 
s h Af · 

out t\ f'l~a would have both an economic and psychological effect on the 
~ou, th Afnc.an governme.nt. Unque.stioning and unprotesting U.S. 
m.ves.tmen~ m a..nd t.rade ".·tth So_uth Afnca have helped prop up the system 
1 

ot aparthe1d. u s : . busi~e~~ mvestment promotes of the white minority, an~ th~ f~~ade of respecttbthty that South Africa tries so desperately ro mamtam. (New York Times Dec. 8. 1977). At the least. The Board of Truste~s a:1? Ameri.can businessmen ~ught to stop kidding themselves and disgtJtsmg their profit motive. Investing in South Africa and 
• ~ompani.es .. that. do business there .is investing in apartheid. A_Partheid-Not JUSt a system of segregatmg blacks but an organized and highly structured method of controlling and exploiting black labor." (New York Times Dec. 8, 1977] . 
~very black.sout~ African leader favors economic and military sanctions. 
Notre Dame s pohcy does not meet this definition. What's worse is tha: Father Hesburgh .b~l.ieves pl~s insinuates that we are doing enough to fulfill our res~onsibihty. Until now, the universities response has been onl~ an occas10nal gesture. such as voting on stock proxy's and vaguely urgmg managements to aid South African minorities. There will be little change from this policy with the new Board of Trustees decision. Notre Dam.e still has ~he. opportunity to come out forcefully against apartheid and mvestment m It. I urge university officials who make the investment decision~ ~t. Not~e Dame to exert their power and insist that the corporatiOns m whtch we hold shares either resist apartheid to the utmost or get out of South Africa. 
... 

-Michael Fitzsimmons 
0 [JliUOn=============================================================================================== 
N.D. & Investments in South-Africa 
=======================peter u·abdze 
Jt is often claimed in our public relations. for ~xample in Notre Dame Magazine, that our campus is a place \Vhere moral values are seriously dcscussed and where appropriate action follows, particu­larly in the area of sqcial justice. Unfortunately there are times when a gap opens up between the values we proclaim and the practice of the University. A recent example of this is Fr. Hesburgh's and the Trustees' weak moral leadership on the issue of investment in South Africa's :,~,artheid system. More­over, Fr. Hesburgh and the Trust­ees refused a number of requests to establish an advisory committee on investment priorities, and issued their ·statement without consulting the wider university community-a sign of a persisting corporate'/ clerical mentality that makes a good deal of talk about the 'family of Notre Dame' a hollow sham. Let me try to explain. 
It is true that the Uni,versity' s policy on investments has one stron point: there will be not investment in banks that make loans directly to the South African government or its agencies. However, th~ essence of Notre Dame's commitment is to support the Sullivan Principles, named after the Rev. Leon Sullivan a director of General Motors. In practice this means that. by voting its stock. the University hopes to pressure American ,.corporations operating it1 South Africa to dis­mantle the color-bar in their offices and pbnts. While at first glance rhis may appear impressive, the .sad fact is that this policy is acceptable to the South African government. The reason for this is that it does not threaten the fundamentals of apartheid. If the Sullivan Principl.es are applied. Africans may come to usc the same cafeteria as whites and receive equal pay for equal work; but the moment they step outside the factory gates they are totally vul­nerable and powerless within the apartheid system-a system that ts bein·steadilv tightened up. Under 4 apartheid. Afr:~ans arc denied civil rights and treated under law as "visitors"· in 87 percent of the country which is designated as "white" South Africa-the economic heartland which has been built by black labor and where the majority happens to be black. In other words, the black labor force is indispens.fble, but ruthlessly con· trolled in the interests of white privilege. In practice this means that African laborers do not have the right to live with their families and may only see them once a year; 
African trade unions are not 
recognized in South African law; 
African workers are manipilated by 
the white bureaucracy through the 
pass system which controls their 
every movement; and Africans 
cannot vote for the all-white South 
African parliament which dictates 
the conditions under which they 
live.. 
For Notre Dame's investment 
policy to have any significant bite, 
the Sullivan Principles wili have to 
be supplemente.d by at least t·wo 
conditions: recognition of African 
trade unions for free collective 
bargaining; and insistence on 
married housing for the families of 
African workers. (It is particularly 
reprehensible that the' Trustees 
chose not to include these specific 
conditions. for the right to organize 
trade unions and the importance of 
the family have been strongly 
emphasized in Catholic social en­
cyclifals.) In addition. a mora­
torium should be declared. This 
would mean that corporations al­
ready in South Africa should not 
increase their investments. Instead 
of pumping more capital and 
technology into the apartheid sys­
tem. these firms should focus on 
strategies designed to induce fund­
amental changes·. Should they fail tn hring about such changes. then compkte withdraw! would be the only moral option. Unfortunately. by simply taking a stand on the · Sullivan· Principles, 'Notre Dame has failed to exercise moral leader­ship. Rather than offering a prophetic witness, the University has tamely stepped into line with 
established corpor;1te thinking. 
Ironically, we now find Notre Dame 
trailing behind those secular uni­
versities and colleges which have 
had the courage to adopt policies 
that go well beyond the Sullivan 
Principles. 

Those settling for the Sulliva.n 
Principles often assume that a 
moratorium on further investment, 
or a policy of corporate disengage­
ment (withdrawl), will hurt 
Africans most. In so far as the 
South African economy would be 
slowed down, there is an element 
of truth in this; but the argument 
overlooks the demands of African 
leadership. Time and again. the 
leaders of black South Africa have 
called. for a moratorium or with­
drawl. explaining that Africans 
already suffer under apartheid and 
that they are ready to suffer further 
in the cause of their freedom. It is 
also worth noting that the capital 
intensive growth engendered by 
transnational corporations has al­
ready produced high unemploy­
ment · approximately 20 percent 
amongst Africans -and that 
Africans are a small minoritv on the 
payrolls of many American corp­
orations. In fact the major impact 
of American investment jn South 
Africa has been to provide capital 
and technology for the white con­
trolled economy and to release 
resources which arc then diverted 
to the military and to the police. 
For black leaders. the issue is not 
a fe\'..· marginal adjustments (cos­
metic changes) in the apartheid 
system. but a redistrihution of 
political and economic power. Fr. Hesburgh and our Trustees have chosen to ignore these voices of black Sottth Africa. Thev have also been indifferent 10 the· Christian conscience of South Africa. most particularly the ecumenical Christ­ian Institute which called for an end · to investment in apartheid-that is, before it was banned in October 1977. One suspects that the Trustees have also overlooked the following realities: South African legislation requires that, in a crisis, foreign corporations must supply the apartheid government, for ex­ample Ford would have to provide vehicles; it is now a criminal offence, defined as economic sabo­tage, for a South African to argue against foreign investment; recent legislation also makes it illegal to supply data on business activities. such as levels of black employment to anyone requesting information from outside South Africa. In short, the South African regime, in addition to its bloody repression of black protests, has made it virtually impossible for major changes to take place as a resuly of corporate pressures from within the country. The Uni;ersity's handling of the investment issue is shoddy and saddening. A pusillanimous policy is bein presented in public state­ments and in the press as a strong moral stance. l suspect there is a basic question waiting to be ans­
wered;  that  is.  whether  Notre  
Dame  is  willing  to  make  some  
sacrifices and  to risk  some  of its  

financial security to give authentic witness on issues of social justice . Our present"investment policy falls far short of this and comes perilously close to moral posturing. 
Peter Walshe is a professor in the department of Go,·emment and International Studies. He is also director of the Afrkan Studies Program. 
-~ 
~------~~---­
******************************************************************************************** 
!* 
* 
* 
)E­
* *
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
*
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*.* 
*
* 
* 
* 

.. *
* 
* 

* 
* 
* 
*
*
~. 
t *
* 
m•t~r-December inevitably comes each year, and me "'· • • • • Often the winter beauty and the hoi This lost Midpoint of the semester focuses on scenes that wi 









a a a a a 
a 

-0 0 0 0 0 0 
• 

Bittb by 1!\artn <ttarusn 
!-.... '· 
ry. 
********************************************************************************************= 
~****************************************************************************************** 
ost students turn their attention to final exams. : * 
* 
* 

[iday spirit on campus are overlooked. # 
• • • • * 
* 
*
* 

II, if noticed, bring enjoyable thoughts or serious reflection. * 
* 
* 
* 


~. 
********************************************************************-********************** 
Thursday, December 7, 1~..::,97.:.,:8:.,______________________________---,
1 0 ~ the observer 
• 

,... 
• 

~----------~-·-·--­
--·------· -·-------....J 

.~ . 
~ 
~.. 





Brezhnez discusses trade as a political pressure tactic 
MOSCOW [AP]-Soviet President Union during the latter part of Leonid I. Brezhnev met with two World War II. 
U.S. Cabinet members yesterday Harriman later declared it was and criticized ''attempts to use trade an "outrage" that normal trading for political pressuring," Tass re­relations have not yet developedported. between the two superpowers. 
Brezhnev received Treasury In his session with the Cabinet Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal ministers, Brehnev restated the and Commerce Secretary Juanita Kremlin's opposition to restrictions 
M. Kreps, who are here for talks on on U .S.-Soviet trade adopted by trade and economic relations. Congress in 1974. 
Tass, the official Soviet news The restrictions, the Jackson­
agency, said Blementhal and Kreps Vanik and Stevenson amendments, 
gave Brezhnev a message about linked the non-discriminatory tar­
trade matters from President iffs status and trade credits to 
Jimmy Carter. The specific-con­Moscow with the issue of free 
tents were not disclosed. emigration. The Soviets say this is 
Earlier yesterday, Brezhnev met interference in internal affairs. 
for one and one-half hours with W. Tass said Brezhnev told the two 
Averell Harriman, the 87-year-old Cabinet officials that improved · ·eteran of East-West diplomacy commercial and economic relations and ambassador to the Soviet could better relations in general 
Roche outlines SU activities for second semes·ter 
by Joe Slovinec Staff Reporter 
The Student Union will sponsor a lecture on the Star of Bethlehem by Chicago astronomer Karlis Kauf­manis on Monday, Dec. 11, at 7 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. This is the last event the Student Union is sponsoring this semester. 
SU Director Bill Roche told the Observer about his plans for the second semester. In the spring 
' concert series Roche hopes to "continue the tremendous success of the first semester by bringing in top-flight groups." SU is negotiating with Billy Joel, Dan Fogelberg, and Tim Weisberg Heart Bob Seger, and Rod Ste· wart. "Ifthings work out, they'll be here," Roche said. Possible second semester speak­ers include HEW Secretary Joseph Califano, Doug Henning, a Broad­way magician, Chicago television talk show host Phil Donahue, and hypnotic suggestion expert Kres­kin. Roche said that Academic Com­missioner John Kaluz is "working on some other possibilities. We're going to bring in the best people we can." SU hopes to co-sponsor appear­ances by Rev. Jesse Jackson and former Black Panther Bobby Seale with the Black Cultural Arts Com­mission for the Black Cultural Arts Festival. Roche said SU is planning on re-scheduling the dance that was co-sponsored with the Freshman Advisory Council early next sem­ester. Other second semester social events include Mardi Gras, on Feb. 9-17, Sophomore Literary Festival on March 4-10, the Bull Moose Party co-sponsored with Planner Hall on March 30, and the Col­legiate Jazz Festival on April 6-7 with the top college bands from all over the country at Stepan Center according to Roche. The Cultural Arts Commission (CAC) will feature a major produc­tion by the National Theatre of the Deaf, which Roche says is '• one of the finest acting groups in the country." They have received criti­cal acclaim including Tony Awards for Broadway appearances and favorable national television re­views. The CAC will also present 'ano­ther Student Players' production following the success of You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown, Roche said. The elay, which has not been sele~ted··"yet, will be directed by Reed King. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival featurning many national literary figures will again be sponsored by the CAC this year. In addition, Roche said the Isis Gallery will be operated in the Fieldhouse with student visitors' works on display. There will also be a Senior Cultural Arts Week which will involved senior poetry readings, art, and music. 
The Social Commission will oper­ate the Nazz and Darby's all spring. Roche said they will also sponsor sever&! ~utdoors concerts and a tenative Stepan concert with · the Outlaws. There will be a major concert in Stepan Center during An Tostal with "someone like Steve Goodman," Roche said. World pool champion Paul Gerni will display trick-pool shooting during 
the second semester. 
In addition to co-sponsoring the Bull Moose Party with Planner Hall, Roche said SU will co-spon­sor social events with ''any halls that want to co-sponsor them." Roche stated that the "Social Commission is always looking for suggestions for events to run'' since it has the money to sponsor events. 
SU plans to advertise its record sale at the beginning of next semester. It will also sponsor the Free University and the summer storage program with the Hall President's Council. 
Roche said that SU is working with the Student Government on a LaFortune Night with "special activities in the Nazz," ice cream specials in the Huddle, a concert similar to the one given by the rock classical band Musica Orbis in the LaFortune early this year, and both long and short movies. 
In publicity efforts, SU will run a "weekly ad in the Observer that will coordinate everything go~ng on 
in  that  week  and  will  continue  
publishing  a  monthly  calendar  
mailed  to  each  student.  SU  will  

operate the Campus Press in the LaFortunP basement which prints poster, resumes, and stationery at lower costs. The SU ticket office will continue to feature $3.50 Plitt theatre tickets at a price of $1.50. 
Roche said SU is "looking to make any capital improvements in the University" with a "legitimate use of Student Union funds that would fit in with the Union's purpose.·· 
SU will start a suggestion box on the first floor of LaFortune for. 
•anyone who wises to suggest 
Student Union social and service [continued on page 12] 
Skystreflm Airlines Announces the 
FARE-DEAL 
stand by rates as low as 
$300 
to Chicago 
Regular Reserve Fee $18.00 

217-5313 1-800·552-2580 (IND.) 
but only if "obstacles existing in 
this matter were removed, such as 
legal discrimination vis-a-vis the 
U.S.S.R. and attempts to use trade for political pressuring,'' the Tass account said. 
Tass said Brezhnev wants a 
quick completion of a SALT treaty. 
The three met in an ornate reception hall at the great Kremlin Palace. 
Reporters permitted inside brief­ly said the 71-year-old Brezhn~v limped slightly, favoring his left leg, but walked unaided about 20 yards across the hall. Brezhnev is rumored to be in poor health. 
Harriman told a Kremlin lun· . cheon for American businessmen 
and Soviet trade officials: "You've ...,....._...._.._.._..__.....,.........,.~....._.-._. 
had some tough problems. But I hope you'll stick with it. 
"Trade is just too important to each of our two countries," he said. "It is not a gift to the Soviet Union. 
It's a mutually beneficial inter­change between our two nations. It's an outrage after all these years that we do not have normal trade relations with the second greatest nation in the world," Harriman asserted. 
Hofman exhibit opens in art gallery 
"Hans Hofmann, a Colorist in Black and White" will open on Dec. 2 at the University Art Gallery, and will continue through Jan. 3. Fifty-six black and white drawings, representing all the phases of this contemporary artist's career, will be exhibited for the first time in this country. The exhibition is being sponsored by the International Exhibitions Foundation, Washington, D.C. The drawings are presently on loan from the Hans Hofmann Estate, 
courtesy of the Andre Emerich Gallery, New York. 
Hofmann's importance to the development of Abstract Expres­sionism in the United States in the early 1940's is fundamental. The artist's spontaneity, vitality, and lucid trans,ations of everyday events and objects into an artistic medium were immediatly admired and adopted by American artists. 
Hofmann fled from the repres­sive climate of Nazi Germany in 1932, and settled permane!ntly in the United, States. He opened a school of fine arts in New York, where he remained director for the next twenty-five years. During these years his reputation flourish­ed through his painting, teaching, and extensive writing. 
Fr. Griffin to celebrate mass 
Fr. Robert Griffen will celebrate Mass at 12:15 p.m. tomorrow in LaFortune for the holy day of the Immaculate Conception. 
Thursday, December 7, 1978 the observer 11 
(~~ .. 

HAIR 
.JIII'.......
t ..l~ .... 

CARE
T~f'[ ....v h ~ ~ CENTER
€ , ~ J ~ 
SA~ ITTAR-.IAN ~ED KEN 
SCIENTIFIC HAIR CARE CENTER 

• 
BlOW STYLING • PERMS • FACIALS 

• 
HAIR CUTTING & COLOR SPECIAUS TS • MANICURES 

• 
ARCHES • TRICHOANAlYSIS 


OPEN: MON-SA T 
8 OPERA TORS & THuRS EVES 
$ lOOCENTI:R MISHAWAkA 256-1444 
M.D./D.V.M. In EuropeanMedical & Veterinary Schools 
The Institute of International Medical Education offers total medical education leading to practice in the U S 
1
. Direct admission into accredited medical schools in Italy and Spain. 

2. 
Master of Science Degree in cooperation with recognized colleges and universities in the U.S leading to advanced placement in Spanish, Italian or other foreign medical schools or veterinary medical schools_ 

3. 
While in a«endance at the medical school, the Institute will provtde a supplemental Basic Medical Sciences Cur­riculum which prepares students for transfer into an American medical school (COTRANS). 

4. 
For those students who do not transfer, the Institute pro­vides accredited supervised clinical clerkships at cooperating U.S. hospitals. 

5. 
During the final year of foreign medical school the 1nstitute provides a supplemental and comprehensive clinical medicine curriculum which prepares the student to ta"ke the ECFMG examination. 


6.1F YOU ARE NOW-OR WILL BE-THE POSSESSOR OF AN M.S. OR Ph.D. DEGREE IN THE SCIENCES, WE CAN OFFER YOU ADVANCED PLACEMENT INA EUROPEAN MEDICAL SCHOOL. 
The Institute has been responstble for processing more American students to foreign medical schools than any other organization. 
INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL EDUCATION Chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York 3 East 54 Street, New York 10022 (212) 832-2089 






---------w
I 
I 
I 
all 

~I ma~s and supper I I this friday and every friday-I 
~----------------· 
~:'f off campus
')! ,._ presents
-/) 


(8}~0~ ~ 
~ad 
thursday. 7 dec ember 9-1 ~Fat Wally's-Open Bar ~ & $5 sin~!e $9.50 couple ~~ 
Tues.-thurs.-12-2:30--.j~........~ 
Tickets: LeMans Lobbv Wed.-12-3-LaFortune Or at the door 
Call Cathy 288-9762/Sharon 234-1996 



12 the observer Thurscby, December 7, 1978 
After four years 


Natu~al gas shortage begins to subside 
W ASBJNGTON[AP) -The natural gas. shortage that plagued the nation over the past four years has finally begun to wind down -not because of any spurt in production, but bc!cause householders and industries have learned to get along with less gas, or even wibtout it. 
But the improvement' is uneven. As a result, gas industry spokesmen say, some pipelines and utilities can start selling natural gas to new customers, but others still cannot fill the needs of their users. 

Further improvement ,is expected t for the next three to five years, says 
' 
George H. Lawrence, president of the American Gas Association.

t 
This is because additional gas 

I . supplies previously withheld from sale should become available with 
f elimination of the country's two-market system and its price dif­ferences, Lawrence says. 
This improvement has been called a "gas glut" or "bubble," ill-chosen phrases that made exper­ienced observers here wonder how the low gas supply of recent years suddenly turned into abundance. 

The answer is, simply, that it r didn't. After peaking at 22.6 trillion
.[ I 
cubic feet in 1973, U.S. natural gas production slid back, year by year, to only 19.5 trillion in 1976. In 1977 production almost leveled off at about 19.4 trillion cubic feet. 
The downslide left many pipe­lines and utilities far short of the gas they owed customers. As utilities temporarily shut off deliveries, industrial users given a low priority by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission were usually the first to suffer. 
Many of them switched toother fuels, mainly oil, and are not anxious to trust their fate to natural gas again. 
An Energy Department survey last April said that natural gas, whjch provided 37.6 percent of the envergy used by reporting indust­ries in 1972, accounted for only 
30.1 percent in the first half of 1977. 
At the same time, the percentage of their energy from fuel oil went up from 9.8 to 13.9, and that from electricity rose from 15.1 to 17.1. Their direct use of coal held steady, just over 20 percent. . 
The department called this ''a substantial switch by participat­ing firms away from the dominant fuel source of natural gas." 
And as natural gas prices rose during those years, gas association statistics show a decline in average per customer residential gas use from 130,400 cubic feet in 1972 to 118,700 in 1977 -a decline which was interrupted but not reversed by two cold winters. 
The result has been that nation­wide use of natural gas bas backed down, out of necessity, to accom­modate itself to the new, low supplies and the new, high prices. Gas association figures show that utilities charged the average residential customer $1.19 per 1,000 cubic feet in 1972 and $2.33 for the same amount last year. 
The supplies available outside gas-producing states have been less than necessary, in fact, be­cause those supplies were under federal price ceilings lower than the unregulated prices in produc­ing states. 
Unwilling to sell at lower prices, producers simply Jet some gas sit idle in producing states, and the Energy Department estimates about 1 trillion cubic feet a year of a little more is backed up there. 
Now that Congress has set price ceilings for the producing-states as well, that gas should be offered for interstate sale. 
That injection of gas would still leave the national supply some 2 trillion cubic feet short of its 1973 peak! But it should help some gas companies to reduce or end service curtailments and may allow some to seek added customers for the next three to five years, both the gas association's Lawrence and the Energy Department estimate. 
Some companies -aided by their gas development, reduced de­mand, and the prospect of more normal winter • already feel the 

•************************ *****•
* * 
*

i ftA.1.o.o.' *
*
* (),~ 
* 
*


ic.\\c\s\10 *
* 
* 

:* Come do yout Chtlstmas Shopping 
*
* 

* * 
* Lemans Lobby -smc * 
* * 
* * 
* Tues., Dec.Sthtu Ftl, Ftf., Dec.810-5 pm * 
* * 
* * 
* ~ Sponsoted by smc Social Commission * ~ 
*********************************' 
~niftersitl! of ~ntre .:!Bame 



IACCOUNTING COURSE AVA!LABLE NEXT SEMESTER ADDTIONAL SECTION OF ACCT 261BASIC ACCOUNTING 
:I 

:2"LPSS WILL MEET AT 8 MWF IF INTERESTED SIGN UP IN 254 HAYES-HEALY 
BEFORE DECEMBER ·8 

pressure easing. 
In a survey last September, for example, Texas Eastern Transmis­sion corp. of Houston, a major interstate pipeline, predicted further curtailments of service this winter; but a company official said this week that curtailment probably wiJJ not be necessary after all. 
Executive Vice-President Jack Head said in an interview that new Texas Eastern gas fields were producing better than expected and the company was getting more gas from other pipelines whose demand has slackened. But Head said the company still did not need new users. 
On the other hand, some utilities served by Northern Natural Gas Co. of Omaha, NB, another major pipe!ine, were, taking on new customers even though other utilities served by Northern must cut deliveries. 
Robert Raasch, Northern's vice president for marketing, explained in an interview that this seeming contradiciton resulted from the priority system required in gas distribution. 
When it has too little gas to fill its contracts, Northern is required to reduce deliveries first to utilities serving low-priority industiral plants, while continuing full deliveries to utilities serving high­priority customers like homes and hospitals. 
Although high-priority users now bum less gas, Raasch said, Northern is obligated to sell utilities serving them just as much gas as before. That gives those utilities a gas surplus they can sell to new high-priority users -despite industrial gas shortages elsewhere. 
Such complexities lay behind a statement last month by Lawrence that the gas industry has "gas to sell." In Washington, where dramatic images often make a bigger impression than drab real­ity, the idea of a "Gas Glut" caused a flurry of excitement. 
It's less dramatic, but more accurate, to talk of a ''reduced shortage" because, by all accounts, it wiJJ be years in the future • if ever -before the United States can again produce as much natural gas as it burned in 1973. 

Students experience 'stop-out' 
[coudnued from page 1] vious notice for an unspecified period of time. "To reapply, students just call or write to inform us of their decis­ion," Quilling said. "As long as the student is progressing academ­ically, he is not penalized." Quilling said she expects 14 students to return to school this year from leaves, but noted that usually_only three or four students each year take leaves. 
Stopping-out at du Lac 
Notre Dame has one of the 
clearest, most concrete policy on 
handling leaves of absence. The 
University's policy is stated in 
section 25.1 of duLac. Basically, it 
says: 
--Permission of the dean is 
required for the leave to be valid. 
If a student withdraws without 
permission, he must apply for 
readmission to the university when 
he returns. 
--No credit will be given for study 
at other schools during the leave of 
absence. 
The present policy was formu­
lated four years ago by the Com­
mittee on the Course of Study, 
chaired by Frederick Crosson, then 
dean of the College of Arts and 
Letters. The policy was subject to a 
two-year trial period before being 
adopted permanently. 
Richard SuJlivan, University 
SU installs new rider program 
by Jane Kirby 

The Student Union Services 
Commission has installed a new 
rider service, funded by the Stu­
dent Union and staffed by Ombuds­
man 
Under the old system, students desiring rides or riders signed up under the rider bulletin board located at the south door of the Huddle. Often the names and notices were lost or stolen. 
Under the new system, the information is kept on index cards in the Ombudsman office on the second floor of LaFortune. Stu­dents desiring rides, or especially riders, are to call 6283 to take advantage of this free service. 
According to Gary Luchini, Stu­dent Union Services Com­missioner, the service has proved successful so far, but more stu­dents especially drivers, are needed to participate in order for the system to really work. 
The Services Commisison will also be running a free shuttle bus between the Michiana Regional Airport and Notre Dame on Mon­day. Jan. 15. The shuttle a char­tered Transpo bus, is being run to alleviate the overcrowding and delays experienced by students returning from break due to in­adequate transportation to campus. 
registrar, explained the purpose of the policy:"There are good aca­demic reasons why students should not have to spend four consecutive years in school. Before the leave of absence policy, there was a fear of the application for readmission. The purpose of the policy is to simply put students as rest about readmission." 
He added that the adoption of the policy puts in writing a policy of extablished validity. 
Sullivan presented figures on the trial period of the leave policy. A total of 89 students ''stopped-out''­53 for a semester and 36 for a year. Seventy-nine of these students were either back at school of expected back at the time the study was made. 
The breakdown according to majors was: Arts and Letters, 47; Science, 11; Engineering, 15; and Business Administration, 16. Men comprised 69 of the students, compared to 20 women. 
Sullivan grouped the reasons for leaving school into four categories, [coudnued on page 14) 

With the Christmas Season upon us, students get into the spirit of things by decorating Christmas trees and doors and by singing those old familiar carols. [photo by Mike Bigley] 
The shuttle will operate from 9:30• 

a.m. to 12;30 p.m.and 5 to 10 p.m., 
peak hours for arriving student 
flights. 
The bus will drop off students at 

the Main Circle and the Library Circle at Notre Dame, and the Holy Cross Circle at St. Mary's. Bill Kresse, organizer of the shuttle stated, "It is the first of many services we'd like. to offer second semester. •' He stressed the fact that the free shuttle is the result of ~udent input. Students with any Ideas of suggestions are urged to caJI the Services Commission office at 7757 any Monday, Wedndsday or Friday afternoons. ' 
Roche outlines SU activities 
[continued from page 11] activities. 
"We will be trying throughout the semester to get new people in the Student Union to work," Roche said.' 
He encouraged anyone with ideas for SU activities or capital improvements to see him or anyone else at the Student Union. 

To increase oil reserves 

Japan uses floating stockpiles 
TOKYO [AP]-Twenty Japanese 

tankers carrying a  total  of  1.5  
billion  gallons  of  Arab  oil  are  
sitting  motionless  in  the  Pacific  

near lwo Jima. They're a floating stockpile to help assure that the flow of oil, vital to Japan's indus­try, doesn't dry up. 
The tankers have only one order from the Japanese government: Stay in a 250-mile-square area south of Japan until needed. The nearest ship is about 600 miles from Tokyo. Some have been there since Sept. 1, with their engines running just enough to buck the currents. 
"The tanker reserve, as we call it, uses idle tankers and is part of the official program to increase Japan's emergency oil reserve to 20 million tons (6 billion gallons)by year 1985," said Kazuo Takayama, chief planner of the Japan National Oil Corp. Japan uses about 220 million gallons of oil a day. 
There is not enough storage 

ND Club of Dallas 
plans events 
for bowl game 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas FortWorth would like to offer their brand of Texas hospitality to all Notre Dame students planning to be in Dallas for the Cotton Bowl against Houston. The following are some of the scheduled events for the Cotton Bowl weekend: (1)· There will be a Hospitality Room at the Hyatt Regency Hotel, 300 Reunion Blvd., Dallas from Dec. 29 through Dec. 31. This is where you can meet friends, leave messages, and watch films of football high­lights. 

(2) "Cocktails inParadise" is the theme of the cocktail party which will be held in the Great Hall of the Paradise Restaurant on Dec. 30. The party will begin at 5:30 p.m. and run until 7:30p.m. Tickets for the party will be available in the Hospitality Room. 
If there are any questions before arrival in Dallas, please contact Ted Amberg, at• (214) 651-8666 during the day. Students are urged to check in at the Hospitality Room upon arrival in Dallas for additional information. 


tool die and plastic mold design­·electron ics technology 
Ched< into a skilled 
profession 
FULLYACCREDITED 
Day or Evening Classes 
Monthly Tuition Plan 
For registration details mme in or call Mr. Judkins or Mr. Gage (219) 289-6391 
ACME INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 

space on land to hold the reserves the country thinks it needs. Japan has no oil of its own. 
He added: "It's one way to increase oil imports and cut Japan's trade surplus." Alarmed at world criticism of its huge trade surplus, $11 billion last year, the Japanese started an "emergency import" program incluJing the import of oil stored in tankers. 
''Whenever a typhoon approaches, the· tankers are ordered to take refuge in desig­nated ports," he said. 

collegiate crossword 

47 Chocolate-covered 11 Adversaries l Having magnitude 12 Egyptian leader 7 Occur 48 Feeling honored 14 Indian soldiers 
13 Underwater ICBM 50 Arrividerci -15 Sitting, as a 15 -roll 51 "Give -try" statue 16 Hug 52 Sparkle 20 Suffix for detect 17 Pierces with a 54 "My boy" 23 Dutch scholar 
sharpened stake 55 State tree of 25 More domineering 18 Ostrichlike bird Georgia (2 wds.) 27 Kitchen gadget 19 Roman general 57 Cleverly avoiding 29 Understand 21 Dorothy's aunt, 59 Arab jurisdiction 31 Illuminated 
et al. 60 Experiences again 33 Shout of surprise 22 Cupola 61 Famine 36 French money 24 Wanders about 62-rat 37 Antony's wife 25 French cheese 38 Baseball term 26 Mortimer -39 Certain gender
DOWN 

28 Desire 40 Wearing away 29 Resident of l Rushes 41 Spot -
Mayberry 2 College dining room 42 Talked wildly 30-pace 3 Egg part 44 On a lucky streak 32 Museum sculptures 4 Roman spirit 46 Most rational 34 Bio-----5 Soviet sea 48 Writer Sylvia ---­35 Owns 6 Kitchen gadget 49 Removed by an editor 36 Celestial bodies 7 Organic part of 52 Capricorn 39 More inquisitive soil 53 Mark with lines 42 Happen again 8 Location of the 56 Blunder 43 Most common written Matterhorn 58 Tenn for a 
word 9 "Harper Valley -" relative 
• t  Remembet your favotite child with a Book fot Chtistmos  •  
:  A lo.rge selection to choose from  :  
:  FAVORITE TITLES INCLUDE  :  
:'The Giving Ttee'  by S. Sllvetstein  NOel  :  
:'The Velveteen RGbblt' by m. WilliG  :  
: 'Charlotte's Web' by E.B. White t'Wind in the Willows' by K. Gtahame ++  : : + t  
t  Hammes Notte Dame  t  

~··························~~··········
t 

Tankers are also instructed to keep about 22 miles from each other to avoid collisions. 
The crews, averaging 30 per tanker, are changed every three months. 
Takayama said the corporation is not worried about the crew's reaction to prolonged boredom. "One round voyage to the Middle East takes one month, anyway," he said. Asked about female crew members, he said, bursting into laughter, "of course, there are none." 
Thursday, December 7,_1_9_7B____.tiLiba..e~o~biiLls..arv-.....a.;e.ra...___1.a.;3. 
Book Shelfs Stereo Shelfs CRf~TiVFFloor Sofas Silk Screens §~and much more L<OKS Lifestyle Furniture and Unique gift ideas  Amer. Express Master Charge Visa Accepted  

• 


: JYLOR RIIITAL :
. .
• ~-• 
i REFRIGERATORS : 
: RENT CHEAP !.! : 
: $28/semester : 
• 1427 N. Ironwood 277-21SO • • 
Last Call for SPRING BREAK FORT LAUDERDALE 
March 17 -March 25 
Holiday Inn Oceanside 
In the Heart of the Action 
$209 per person quad occupancy 
Price includes: Roundtrip Transportation Lodging Disneyworld Tickets 
CALL: 

INOIANA MO I On aus 
715 SOUTH MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 46624 234-2196 
make your reservations now 


1 
l 
t 14 
I 
I . I 
I : 
'\ 
'I 
. I 
11II 
I 
'I 
, I 
~: ­
1', tf I I 
'I 
ti 
I 
ji ; ,' 
J 
I' 
tt ' 
~ ' 
I 
I· 
1 ' 
f. 
I 
·I 
'
i 
-j' 
' 

•f 
I 
i 

t 

I; I 
iI 
''I­
\ 
I 
I 
I 
l ' 
j j I I I 
I 
I I j I 
j I 
I 
Thursday, December 7, 1978
the observer 


Special Holy Day Mass 
~east or Immaculate Conception 
5:00pm 
~RtOay, 0€C 8 

Sacred Heart Church 
Celebrant: R€V. J. ~lan1qan, C.S.C. 
theR€ WilL also Be a Sp€Cial holy bay mass tn SacR€b heaRt ChuRch at 11 :30 am on ~Rtbay 
.Check hall bulletin boards for times of masses in dorms. 

WI SAl"l[) 1111131SI f()l2 lASI Alll-11 ~AZZ!!! 
i. 

THURS.· FRI.· Sruf)~~ JfJt? (1£'llt? 13rttiXIIIlt?I c) 9:30-10:30 9:00-10:30 4 (J~t'lf)£l? Jcarul£' ()f)f)clllrt~ ii J~~~ (f)rn~f) 10:30-11 :30 \ 10:30-??? l311call ~£1-1calt? 11 :30-??? i 
'Stop-out syndrom' 

Michael Moll••ll 
persists 
[continued from page 12] while noting that some students were granted leaves for a combina­tion of reasons. The results showed: Financial reasons or job opportunities, 26; Health (physical and psychological), 10; Career indecision, reassessment of goals, 17; and Motivational problems, personal reasons, 36. Of the 30 students on leave expected back this semester, 23 returned, Sullivan said. There are currently 32 students on leave, of which 24 are expected back for the spring semester and 8 for the semester beginning next fall. Sullivan said a larger number of students went on leave during the first two-year period because it was the first opportunity for the stu­dents to take a leave of absence. He predicted that the number of students on leave would stabilize at the current level of around 30 a year. SuJJivan said that, except for unusual circumstances, a student mu~t have his request for a leave apPfoved before th~_registration pe~od of the semester of his ab nee. Students are not ordin­ari y allowed to go on leave during a emester. 'Students should contact the 
d an before the end of the semes­t , " Sullivan said. "Once regis­t~ed, you must remain in school.'' 

I 
I 

Califano supports equal spending 
men and only six for women.'' 

A key to federal enforcement of the new policy is what the govern­ment considers to be non-discrim­inatory factors that would permit unequal spending on different sports. 
Such factors may include the ''nature or level of competition of a particular sport,'' HEW said, sug­gesting that the extraordinary and unique costs of fielding a college football team would not require a comparable expenditure for less expensive women's teams such as tennis. 
"This will not necessarily result in identical men's and women's intercollegiate athletic programs,'' the government said. The interpre­tations ''take account of the size and cost of football by measuring present compliance in terms of actual, rather than potential, par­ticipation rates; by recognizing the fact that the costs of some sports are greater than others, and where appropriate, by taking account of the scope of comp~tition." 
The college sports community seemed satisfied that football had been exempted from the anounce­ment. 
"I'm pleased that there is some consideration in the regulations for the peculiarity of footbaJI," said Chancellor William Gerberding of the University of Dlinois at Urbana. 
, , C~m~liance wit~ the proposed 
pohcy mterpretatton" ofthe regu­lations would force schools to either lower budgets for the men's sports programs or maintain the level of 

men's sports by finding new 
sources of revenue for upgrading 
the women's sports. 
Joel Eaves, athletic director at 
Georgia, said the univeristy would 
have to find nearly $1 million more 
each year to finance across-the­
board increases in women's ath­
letics if budget allocations are 
based on percentages of male and · 
female team members. The · 
university currently has 221 men 
and 80 women in intercollegiate 
competition. 
The main difficulty will be 
resources, said AI Ulbrickson, vice 
president for student affairs at the 
University of Washington. "Exclu­
ding football will provide some 
relief to that.'' 
Football, the big moneymaker in 
the big-time sports schools, gener­
ates millions of dollars, which 
sports administrators say is gener· 
ally distributed throughout the 
entire athletic program. 
Phyllis Bailey, assistant athletic 
director at Ohio State, said the 
filtering process sometimes hasn't 
been happening fast ~nough. The 
operating budget for 18 men's 
sports at Ohio State is $4,064,614, 
including football, and $601,143 for 
the 12 women's sports, she said. 
The Ohio State men's basketball team of 13 players flew to Knoxville Tenn., last Saturday night on a charter. Tuesday night, the 12­member women's team will be going to Tennessee by chartered bus. But athletic officials point out that the men's team drew 12,000 • fans for its . home opener against Miami, Ohio, creating more than $30,000 in revenue. Meanwhile, the women's home opener attracted 570 fans, taking in $900. 
John Toner, athletic director at the University of Connecticut, said: 
"i honestly feel that the gut reaction by all the colleges and universities is to provide compar­·I able programs for women within reasonable bounds. There are areas of competition that vary, however.'' 
Fred Huff, assistant athletic director at Southern lllinois Univer­sity, said his school was ready to comply. 
"I think people are going to have to live with it, buckle down and develop enough revenue--probably from outside sources--to be able to afford it," he said. "It's going to hurt a lot of schools more than it will hurt us." 


[continued &om page 1]
•
women." 

There have been dramatic in­creases in female participation in sports since passage of the so­called Title IX sex discrimination law six years ago. But HEW said that the latest figures indicate that ab~mt 300,000 of the 400,000 stu­~e(lts participating in intercolleg­Iate athletics are men, and "on the average, colleges and universities prqvide approximately 10 sports for 
SAT.· 

\flit? ~4-ZZ (lill§tlll~§ 
Slif)W 9:00-??? 
Thursday, December 7, 1978 
tha obA&IlfA[ 15 
.... 

CLASSIFIEDS LOST AND FOUND PERSONALS Contrary to what some folds might think, Kermit has not been stolen. He Is merely 
Vandalism
Sophomore class Christmas party! Friday out investigating the disappearance of NOTICES Dec. 8, 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Lafortune Skipper and Freddy. Good Luck Kermit!
Lost-to the person I exchanged CPO coats with Mon. night before Thanks­giving at Corby's-I goofed. Yours is a 

Ballroom -come as you are for cookies, 
persists in
The ombudsmen service will close for Dearest Tim,
little small and my elbows are getting punch and music. Be there, aloha!
the semester at midnight on Wed. Dec. I've Clscovered sex and want you to
cold, so please call me. Korbs (1696)
13. Any calls for the rider board should OBSERVER CHECKS MAY BE PICKED make up for lost time. See you Christmas be made by midnight Tues. at the latest. 
FASH strike
UP DEC.15,FRIDAY FRDM12-5 p.m. IN your 'Barna babe Janie Dining hall. Reward. Call1464 THE OBSERVER OFFICE 
lost: B-ball Tix Saturday noon at North 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, • Found: master padla.:k with 3 keys on 
Shots were fired into a trucking
Inc. Professional Typing Service 12 type 

company office and tires on a
lost: Men's NO Gold Class Ring behind HELP SAVE EARL PARTY 717 ST. South QAuad. To claim, Call 3459 
styles $1 page minimum Call 232-{)898 

the bookstore. If found contact Chuck LOUIS ST. SAT. DEC.9th 8-? 
half-dozen semi-trailer rigs were
"When you want the Best" 

1139. 
slashed yesterday in the latest
To all helmets, Kearin·
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Tuesday, 

round of vandalism that Indiana
Lost: female springer spaniel puppy Party time this Friday at Garvs house. Happy birthday "Riverside Rowdy."
Dec. 12 is the last day to apply for a loan 

authoriies are blaming on the strike
white with brown markings, no collar Invite all your friends. We must drink Does this mean Butch's over Christmas?
this semester 

$reward 288-2129 until we're FUBAR! love, 
by independent steel haulers. 
Your Boston Answering service 

"We've had a lot of shooting up
Need a ride? Call Wilson Driveaway. 

Law student needs rider to Florida
Lost: a gold watch, last Sat. night at 
here," said Dennis Eaton, a com
Cars to all major cities. All you pay for is Nickle's sentimental value reward. Call Leaving 12119-Call Pat 289-6743 • Maddog, Bawb,Web, and Kit­

munications officer at the state
gas. Cars are brand new. For more 

Pat 4-1-4801 Merry Xmas and Happy finals gang!
information, Call Dan at 1783. 

police post in Lowell. "If there
12 Days of Finals 
Love, 

wasn't a truck strike, it might be
12 kegs of beer
Found: At the Wilmouth's B-day party An admirer of brown shirts
SENIORS Caught In the career __ms;s? 

1 1 weeks blown off 
written off as vandalism. But it
Sat. night: apr. eyeglasses, 1 necklace,Seeking students to help manage family 
and 1cloth belt tor a coat. Call 288-5707 10 pounds Qained Diane, 
seems like every time a gun goes
busineu, paid vacations and holidays, 

to identify 9 days till ftnals Here is your personal, it says nothing 
off, a trucker's getting shot at."
profit sharing, possible retirement ptan. 

8 bloodshot eyes but drop in and see my decorations.
Call ~218, serious Inquiries only, no. 

The Fraternal Association of
Lost: ablue bandanna in SOH or Badin. 7 page paper Midnight Express
Tel. Interviews. 

Steel Haulers went on strike four
6 words written
Of great personal value. If found, call Steve Miller, 7829. 5 hours to cram MARIA CALABRESEis broadening her 
weeks ago to press demands for
Summer programs London[with travel in 

4 finals coming horizons by taking advantage of foreign 
higher rates, the right to bargain
Ireland, Scotland England and France) 

Lost: T155 calculator somewhere in 3 hours blown students! 
on behalf of independent truckers
and Rome [with travel In France, Ger­

LaFortune Call Terry 1969 2 hell with studying
many, Switz. and Italy). Call Prof. Black 

and for uniform highway regu
1 cold beer left to chug Dan Letcher: Phil's grandmother and I[SMC]4948. 
lations.
Discovered one white, plastic, slightly 1st Floor Walsh's Fearsome Foursome believe that greased pigs have nothing to dirty contact lens container by North be ashamed of. (Especially wlien it 
Eaton saic! five shots were fired
Want a Change? Tase some of the most Dining Hall. Come to Observer office to The wind took your daughter and so is rain~!) 

through the window of the Artim
delicious and 

claim. shave 'chee. Mare 
Transportation Co. in East Chicago 
around 2 a.m. yesterday. The
Want a Change? Taste some of the most 

Lost: 1girls 1977 high school class ring. To the inhabitants of the infamous Dear Ryan. O'Neal, , ' delicious and low-caloried Vietnameses 
office was not occupied at the time
Gold band with red stone, on North Quad asylum, and their studious trainees. Happy birthday! I wish you'd pay
and Chinese dishes at the newly-opened 

Please Call 6798. I couldn't ask for greater friends, attention to me once in a while. 
he said, an no one was injured.
restaurant: ORIENT EXPRESS U.S. 31 

thanks for making my 21st a memorable 
A Secret Admirer 

The first reports of the tire
Roseland (between the Party Shoppe and one!

WANTED 

slashings came at 10 p.m. Tuesday
Ziker Cleaners) Lace Murph, 

from truckers who were parked at 
Wanted: student ticket, South Carolina We have often walked down that street
LOGAN CHRISTMAS ACTIVITIES: The 

an Elkhart service plaza, said Bob 
vs. NO Call Jim M. 1466 Lost: One Susan G. missing between 11 before but the pavement always stayed
Logan Christmas party will be held this 

Reppert, a communications officer
and 3weeknights. If found please return beneath our feet before ...
Saturday, Dec. 9th from 9:00 a.m. to 

at the Toll Road post of the Indiana 
11:30 a.m. Come, bring afriend and help If you are driving to Florida or Georgia or to 419 Badin. Probably because we've never been so 
Lost: One Bill E. Missing between 11 and drunk
S.C. far Christmas and could drop me ott 
State Police
all the kidS emjoy Santa Claus and all the 

3 weeknights. If found, please return to As you're going to be
in South Carolina-Call Jim M. 1466 will 
"That's where the biggest prob 
tun. Activities which will prepare for the 

share usual 221 Howard. On the night of Number 23!
Christmas party include Christmas 

lem was," Reppert said, nothing
Dan and Phil
shopping for the kids, a cookie-bake 

that at least four trucks were
Diane, Jean, Kathy,
Riders needed to Phila. area Dec.17 Call P.S. Will you start letting some of those
session on Friday afternoon at Logan 

Cork: SMC-4554 To three of the sweetest girls I've had women catch you ...at least so we can 
damaged.
Center, and a Christmas present wrap­

the tortune of knowing, Thanks for have your rejects. 
Through the early morning hous 
ping party at Bill Grifins house, 927 Notre 

making my 21st all the more special to 
hours, other reports came from
Dame Avenue, Friday Night at 8:00p.m. Desperately need ride to Cottoil Bowl 
me!!! 
Happy B-day Laura Kogut -Love, your
Lots of help is needed wrapping presents leaving from Chicago. Will share driving 
truck stops in Rolling Prarie an
Much love, Rome Roomie
and with the other activities, so join in on and expenses. Call SMC 4089 or 4792 
near LaPorte.
Kevinthe Christmas fun. Any questions Call 
In all, state police received
Happy Birthday Mike!!! Hope you have a
Mike at 1371 or Sue at 4-1-4832 OVERSEAS JOBS ,Summer/full time 
Last Adonis Showtonite 9-11 p.m. WSND nice day, okay finals and a super good 
reports that 43 tires were slashed
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. 
-Meet Adonis at Guiseppi's Sat. night, break. HAVE FUN!!! 
on six trucks, although Reppert
All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses 
He'll autograph toenails -Diane 
added that other truckers might not 
paid, sightseeing. Free into. -Write: 
FOR RENT international Job Center, Box 4490-14 
have filed formal complaints. 
KEITH HElL'S TRAINING STABLEBerkeley, CA 94704 Horseback riding lessons SMC-ND Quali­Toledo Club Meetin 6:30 Mon. Dec. 11 
Meanwhile, the head of the
House for rent -79 Spring semester $275 

fied Instructors I English and Western 
nation's largest steel firm said the
2nd Floor LaFortuneplus utilities per month, 2-3 persons, Need ride to Louisville around Dec. 20. 
Semester -11 week maximum -$100. 
strike is ''irresponsible'' and might 
18401 Eugene Street. Call 8367 Call Chris Stewart 13748 after 11 p.m. 
Organizational meeting Jllnllry 21st ­
end up hurting steelworkers in the
To the Ladies of the Southing Dining 
l

2:00 McCandless Plano Room Additional
Mature students, share a spacious, Desperately need a ride home for Hall: 
form of layoffs. 
Information • Call Jo Hell -683-4467furnished home in a very nice neighbor­Christmas break the Philadelphia vicinity 
David M. Roderick, president of 
l

THursday Dec. 7 Is Mike, "I'm Yoo're
hood near campus. $130 per month (east on Pa turnpike). I can leave 
... l

Anyone witnessing or having Information Favorite Checker" Murphy's birthday. 
U.S. Steel, told reporters in West
includes everything. Call 289-0103, Wednesday Dec. 20 at 12:30 and I will about a disturbance In the foyer of Fat 
Lafayette that the F ASH strike is
You know him -the one that looks Ilk
nights. gladly share all expenses and driving. 
Wally's on Friday, November 24, 1978, 
being led by "misdirected people
Please call Tom at 1138. like Ryan O'Neal. Catch him playing
please contact Attorney Charles Lahey,
Come home. Leave your campus worries "Rope-a-Dope" on the Fisher side at 
who are making the steel industry
233-6699
behind and have an address that doesn't Help!!! I can leave Sunday the 17th but I 
suffer for things it's not respon­
dinner and show him how much you
say "hall" in it. Rent -$50/month plus lack a ride to the Hartford CT area. 
sible for."
Sue-appreciate him. The Committee to Make
utilities. 289-7690. Please give me a ride anywhere close... 
You really serve it up. 
If the strike continues, Roderick
Mike Murphy's Birthday as Memorable
Call 288-9049 I love you. 
predicted, "Steelworkers will be
Two car garage for rent. Two blocks from as Pearl Harbor
Cowboy 
unemployed as a result of an
campus. 277-3604 Wanted: ride to Washington D.C. are 
anytime after the 20th. Will share 
irresponsible action."
Marti,
Paddletish Blood Drive: we ,need yourdriving and expenses. Call Jim at 1789. 
''They want to pressure Con­
blood Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs· Uh Oh Mistletoe!
3or 4 bedroom -6 blocks from N. D Nice day between 9 and 3:15 at the infirmary. 

gress and the Teamsters into
house-reasonable rates. 259-9702 or 259-Paz
Need ride to i.u. bloomington Friday, To reserve atime call Brian (1150) or Tom
7861 

letting them represent independent
Dec. 9, will share driving and expenses. 
(1785) today. Paddlefishers and NON­
truckers. But it is clearl illegal for 
Call JB,1161. 
Michael Roger Losego-native of Colum­Paddietishers are welcome to give.
FOR SALE 

independents to conspire to with­
bus Ohil-currently residing in 256 Sarin. 
Wanted: roomates for 2nd semester. Happy Birthday!!! 
hold services from the market,''
Get your Christmas 1'0111 on ule In theWhy give Christmas gifts early? Pan­Notre Dame apartments, $75 plus utilities (Gosh, I bet everyone figured out whodining halls this week. Sponsored by APO 
said Roderick, who was in town
dora's will mall gift books and calendars Good location/currently male but flex­
this is to, rats) 
Tuesday to lecture management
ANYWHERE. The store is stocked with ible. Mike/John 288-8627 -MGirls know that FEDS (Fisher Escort andgifts and the staff is already with 
students as part of Purdue Univer­
Dating Service) is the leader on campussuggestions. We now have quality X-mas Need 4 GA's (2 and 2?) to any home 
sity's "Executive in the Class­
In our field. We knew It too, that's why Christmas Is the suson of giving. Give 1cards also. Behind N.D. apartments. basketball game. Mark 1863. 
ride to Phllly on the 20th to akid who has 
room" series.
we're stilf around! Call 3089, 3079 for
233-2342 

lnfor. not been home lince August, and he will 
Roderick said proposed FASH
Riders needed: going to D.C. areas: Call give you money for gas, Call 1793 
rate increases would raise inde­
The Book Bam has So. Bend's largest 2-sm or 2-4033. Sue­selection of quality Christmas books and 
pendent steel haulers' profits by 20
SOMF Have not been home since August.
tts top science fiction section as well. Plus Riders needed to Portland Oregon for 
percent.
Help rtiUure Mom lftd Dad thlt theyI love You.
hundreds of gift books for parents. In the Christmas break. Leaving anytime after 
still have ason. 1111d ride to Pttilly are on 
"The Interstate Commerce Com­
Kurts
Georgetown Shopping Center off Cleve­Dec. 16th. Call Laura 7637. 
area on the 20th for Xmas. Call 1793 
mission would have to okay that,''
land Road. 272-5520 

Attention Pittsburgh Club Members: We 
he said. "But what chance would
Student needs to borrow record "beer DAMN IMPORTANT! Need ride toneed 2people leaving campus by bus but 
the Teamsters have of settling for 7
1972 Ford Gran Torino no rust, Call barrel polka" for project. Will return. Cincinnati for Christmas. Call Jthn 1756
returning by other means.
288-5224 $650.00 Gall Mac 13507 
percent if the independents get
If Interested In splitting tares, call 3089 
20?"
or 2255 To tile Guys In till K11111n Revue:
Getting a commission in the Marines and Need ride to Connecticut for Christmas en Great
COngratulations a Revue! 
And interstate load limits, to be
need some clothes? 4 pairs of pants 34 break. Can leave afternoon of the 19th. Thank you for thlrosea.
To the Farley Femmes Fatales: 
made uniform, would have to be
waist 30 lenght 2 coats 38 or 40 30-31 Call Andy 13569. Florenceanne, Marianfll, and Anne
"The hottest lips on campus" weren't 
considered by 50 state legislatures. 
sleeve 1 overcoat size 40 one set blue at Senior Bar Saturday.

pants with white coat plus few misc. Wanted: 1 GA Northwestern-ticket. Call Soccer Fans-items $100.00 all. Also carpet remnants 
Sue at 6845. Party with the soccer team, Friday
One night appearance only. Bafore
for your room, car , doorway 232-3766 

%Observer
night at 914 Cedar Street.
curtain call Skipper and Freddy will beWanted: Ride over Xmas to Allentown­
rehearsing on 6th O'brary at 9 e'clock
SOLD MY PORSCHE!V2 STUDDED Philly area. Can leave at noon Dec. 19. Stacey,SNOW TIRES FOR SALE: 155 x 15 Call Pete at 3504. 
Happy Birthday. You may bt' 19 but
Certified nuts,
radials, Gilsaved (Swedish). Ex. con­

you're still a rookie! 
Sports
Happy 19th birthday! Will you join medition 2 for $50, or best offer. Call Chris Part time delivery help wanted must have 
Love,

for a midnight double tonight?
Stewart 3748 own transportation and be able to work 
Guess Who?

Nutty Brownie
weekends hourly and commission apply 1972 MG MIDGET good condition. 5 in person -milano's Pizza 815 W. Sweethearts are made of Cinnamon,
Michelin radial tires Luggage carrier. McKinley after 4 p.m. 256-1853 Sue-favorites. Lotharios, Babys and that is 
UCLA next for ND
You've made me sooo happy.
Spoke wheels. $1400.00 272·0331 you.
I love you. 
[continued from page 16]
Need ride to Milw/Madisan area. Can .,.
Dr. Dull 
Kentucky was last year,'' warned
leave Sunday 17th -Call Dan 3304Tired of high prices? Need ashirt for your 
Phelps. "They have talent and
club or dorm? KEN MAR INC. hast-shirts Mary Kron Happy Birthday ~ ­
Wanted: Riders to Washington D.C. are this 
experience in Roy Hamilton, Brad
~W..
galore at the lowest prices on campus 

area after exams. Call Ed 288-4344 after 
Holland, and David Greenwood
F<enmar has a sales representative on 10 p.m. Happy 1yr. to the convicts. ,, [~ Is 
campus to fill all your T-shirt, sweat shirt, 

who are all seniors. You have to 
and jacket needs at the lowest UN BEAT­Hi Nanne-you American fox. 
figure Greenwood is worth 30
heav!II!!U

Wanted: members of the ND-SMC Com­BEATABLE PRICES! Contact Anthony 
) 

points alone."
munity to drive :1ew car to Seattle and
Totaro 4684 JP:
drive car back after Christmas break. 
Tipoff time for the game between
You can cheat off my crossword puzzle
Call 232-0453 
anytime. Happy Pearl Harbor Oay. 
the nation's second and third
)a(~
Mary Anne 
ranked teams is set for 11 p.m EST.
l ••• ......... ........ . .. . .. ..,.. ...... 
~ 


i6 the Qb&erver Thursday, December 7, 1978 




; 
' ' 

Irish down Wildcats, 101-57 in last contest before UCLA 
by Ray O'Brien their opponent's zone defense in a disgrace to college basketball. It 
Sports Editor the early going as Rich Branning, was not the way college basketball the game's MVP, kept his in the should be conducted and I'm driver's seat, hitting shots from the including the play, the calls, and 
In a sloppy and physical display of top of the key the coach's actions." basketball, the Irish once again got Northwestern kept within six Falks was not exactly pleased with all 13 players on the scoreboard, points with seven minutes gone as Phelps' court antics as he added, broke the 100-point plateau, and Larry Lumpkins came off the bench "the game got completely out of 
demolished the Northwestern to spark the 27-point underdogs. hand because the refs didn't blow Wildcats, 101-57, last night at the Another sub, Bruce Flowers, got the whistle right away. Then they ACC. the_Irish moving in spurts as the start listening to what the coaches The most exciting point of the team co-captain crashed the offen­told them they missed." Falks was game came at the end, when Notre sive and defensive boards, sending assessed a technical during the 
Dame looked as though they would him to the free throw line, where he game. not' have enough players to finish sank 4 of 5 attempts. Flowers Phelps was less estatic about his the game, as center Bruce Flowers, finished the half with eight points, -team's performance but explained, Gil Salinas, and Bill Laimbeer and six rebounds, and was barely ''we need confidence right now. 
fouled out. The Irish reached their heard from again, as he fouled out We're a young team, and first accomplishment of filling the with 1:15 gone in the stanza. needed this game to get into the l] scoresheet when Tim Healy hit a Tracy Jackson and Kelly Tripucka flow. But I saw a lot of things that 
free throw to make the score 93-54 picked up the scoring and the will have to chance before we play with 2:15 remaining. rebounding as Notre Dame pulled UCLA." The 100-point goal looked to in away from the turnover-troubled Notre Dame's bench put in severe jeopardy, as Notre Dame Northwestern squad. Both teams another strong game, scoring 46 
failed to score in the final minute picked up a number of points from points. "I thought that Mitchell and a half of the game. Woolridge the charity stripe, as the men in and Salinas did a great job coming missed a shot at the one minute black and white (all three of them) off the bench, providing offensive 
mark, then--had a layup knocked continued to blow their whistles. and defensive intensity. Our bench ...._ away, followed by a traveling call Neither coach was too pleased was to the key to the whole flow." ' Orlando Woolridge took the Irish over the century mark with his on an attempted dunk. But "the with the officiating, but Digger Phelps .commented. . last second jumper. [photo by Doug Christian]Tree" made up for it with one Phelps was a little kinder in his Brannmg shared sconng honors second left as he calmly swished a appraisal. ''As an independant, we with 15 points: Notre Dame's field 
ten-footer, adding the final touch to are not experienced in working general canned 7 of 9 from the _ his team's easy win. with three officials,'' Phelps field, but mananged only 1 Of 5 Notre Dame ·started slowly, as began. ''We will just have to get from the free throw line. Notre 
did the Wildcats. The referees used· to the fact that the three Dame shot a torrid 65 percent from called fouls faster than the personal referees will be calling everything the floor, while hitting only 62 foul lights could be switched on. A (the two team accumulated a total percent of their foul shots. rash of turnovers by both teams of 56 fouls in the game)." Tripucka also chipped in 15 along with some tight defense led Wildcat mentor Rich Falks was markers, while Jackson added 12. to a slow start. Kelly Tripucka less forgiving, as a losing coach Woolridge, Laimbeer, and Mitchell 
provided ND's only fire power, might be, when he commented, all finished with ten points. rebounding missed shots and "I'm not going to make any The Irish will get their first real of putting them back up, as the Irish comments about the refs here, but I test of the year this Saturday, as 
broke to a 13-5 lead five minutes will go through the proper chan­they travel to Los Angeles to take into the contest. nels." Falks went on to comment on UCLA. "UCLA is where Notre Dame failed to penetrate that "I thought tonight's game was [continued on page 15] 
Griese throws passes· in glasses 
[AP] Men sometimes throw passes of breaking his glasses. It hap-and putting them in,'' says .at guys who wear glasses. That's pened in the pre-season and he Washington, the flashy running because some of the guys who wound up with cuts all over his back for the Colts. "I didn't wear 
•catch them could probably do it face. But when it comes to the glasses most of the time from then ·with their eyes closed. And crunch, namely the moment before until this pre-season; when I especially 'cause one of the guys a tackle, he's not thinking about started wearing the goggles. who throws them wears glasses, anything but the tackle. "I was poked iii the eye twice too. Washington and Jefferson wear and had two operations for de­
There's Bob Griese, quarterback goggles rather -than plain eye-tached retinas. That's the main of the Miami Dolphins, looking like glasses. reason I wear them, for protection. a scholar trapped inside his helmet. "I used to wear contacts in They are prescription, though, not ~1-Mil 
And Joe Washington of Baltimore c.olleg~ but lo~t them a couple of ~ust foggles. Do I get kidd.ed a~out Bill Hanzlik continued to show strong play at both ends of the court, and John Jefferson of San Diego, ttmes to practice as !1 sophomore em. Nah. Everybody ~tkes em as he continues to adjust to his role as starting guard. [photo by looking like henchmen for Darth; 
Vadar. B~i; ~'eB;;~~;,,,\~~:,,,,,,,~;,,~,,~,s,~:,,,:;,,,;~::,,~,,~,,r,~:,,,,;,:;,,,,,,,,,,,,,st~~5NI~tt:,~J,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,::,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, They, along with Miami corner­back Norris Thomas and Washing-· ton Redskins defensive backs Joe IILaven.der and Ken Houston are 
Some Bad(ger) memor1es
among a National Football League minority--players who perform in weekend spectacles wearing spec­

===============================================================================================================================================================:=:=:=:=:=:=:==============================================================================================================================:=======WCHA Watch:
tacles of one form or another. 

The last time the Notre Dame hockey team beat Wisconsin was Nov. 26, 12-0 Badger win of 1969 -some more memories.
Some do it simply because 1976. That was two· season ago. That was eight games ago. That was 32 There is no question that Notre Dame is emotionally ready for this

glasses feel better and are less periods pius one overtime ago. That was 490 minutes of hockey ago. That game. The memories are not good and they feel it is more than time totroublesome than contact lenses. 

was ... break that seven game drought. ·Others wear them because contacts 
Anyway, it's been quite a while since the Irish have won one over the Experienced players like Steve Schneider, Greg Meredith, Ted Weltzin just don't do the job. 
Badgers. In fact, Wisconsin is the only opponent Notre Dame has not and Tom Michalek all remember vividly the past two years of play against
And Houston, a safety, wears 

dark · glasses-~but only on the been able to beat in its last seven games against anybody. The series Wisconsin. They know it is time for a win over the Badgers. record stands at 25 Badger victories, nine wins for the Irish and six ties. This past weekend's split at Michigan Tech knocked Notre Dame from
sidelines and in practiCe--because Still wondering if even the smallest amount of emotion will be involved first place in the WCHA as well as from the number one spot in thehe used to get migraine headaches.· 

in the upcoming series at the ACC? country. Thus this weekend's series will be a matchup of the third-ratedSometimes they get kidded about­Now, don't take this wrong. It's not as if the Irish and the Badgers team in the nation, Notre Dame, against the seventh-ranked Badgers.
their appearance, sometimes not. 

really hate each other and that small scale war will be underway on the ice Up in Houghton the Irish played their worst hockey of the year for theGriese, for example, has picked this weekend. It is, as Irish coach Lefty Smith says, a good college rivalry. first two periods Friday night and, as a result, were losing 4-2. But in theup the nickname "Mr. Peabody," In fact, Notre Dame owes Wisconsin a debt of gratitude. Ten years ago ·third period they did what only good teams can do. They put it all behinda character in the Bullwinkle and when revived sport Dame, Irish were
Rocky cartoon family, more specifi­Smith the at Notre the an them and came back for a win. 
independent and three years away from becoming members of the The play ofthe Irish freshmen that weekend was the best all season. Allcally a low-key, scientific-minded WCHA. In between opponents like Gustavus Adolphus and Detroit was five goals scored for Notre Dame in regulation play were by first yeardog with glasses. 
Wisconsin. The Badgers were the first major collegiate hockey team to players. The line of rookies Dave Poulin, Bill Rothstein and Jeff Perry was
Th~ low-key quarterback began 

play Notre Dame four times in a season. the most productive one of the series for the Irish. Poulin scored fourwearing them in 1977 when his eye "We are grateful to Wisconsin for taking us on as opponents four times goals and assisted on two while turning in one of the outstandingproblems became pronounced--and that year," said Smith. "Playing a team like Wisconsin made us realize individual performan~;es by any player in the league this year. Jeff Perrywhen it was discovered late in the where we stood." scored the goal that gave the Irish a temporary S-4 lead Friday before theyexhibition season that contact The Irish lost all four games to the Badgers that year. Two were by went on to win in overtime. The third member of that line, Bill Rothstein, lenses made him dizzy. "It was a scores of 10-2, one was a S-1 loss and one was a 12-0 shutout. It seems tied it up Saturday 5-5 before Notre Dame lost in the .final minute.
problem unlike anything I'd ever Wisconsin certainly let Notre Dame know exactly where it stood. No one expected players as young as these to be performing so well sobeen faced with before," he said. 

Then in the 1973 playoffs, after finishing second in the final standings, soon. It has made Notre Dame a team no one expected them to be like-a"It wasn't a situation involving 
Notre Dame made it to the finals against Wisconsin. The winner of that team with depth. Depth is an integral part of any team's success. And it pass interceptions or fumbles or 
series would go on to the NCAA tournament. Played in South Bend, the is making this year's Irish team a winner.
not moving the offense. 

first game ended in a deadlock. The second game of the series was BLUE LINES: The Notre Dame Blue Line Club will be holding its first "This was different--but the will another hard fought battle that saw the game tied 3-3 going into the final luncheon of the year this Friday at 12:00 noon at the Universityto overcome was there.'' 
minute before the Badgers won 4-3 on a power play goal. Club ... Moose Krause will be master of ceremonies and guest speakersThomas, Griese's teammate, has 
Wisconsin went on the NCAA tournament and became national will be Lefty Smith and Wisconsin coach Bob Johnson...any member ofworn glasses since his college days, champions for the first time in its history that year. More memories of the Notre Dame community may obtain tickets by calling Thelma Hessling when he found the contacts were an 
another hard fought Joss. . • at 234-8279 ... 
irritant. Does he get kidded? 

The most recent memories stem from the last game between the two you must have a reservation to attend... Don Lucia, who ·Strained
"Norris is one of our hardest teams, played last March in Madison. Notre Dame was fighting for a ligaments Friday versus Michigan Tech, is still questionable for thehitters," says Coach Don Shula. 

playoff spot and was skating with only two completely healthy lines. The Wisconsin series...Scott Cameron and Ted Weltzin, who both missed"What do you think?" 
Badgers won the first game S-2 and the Irish got swamped in the second some action last weekend, will be ready for the upcoming series ...a selloutThomas' only problem is the fea1 
contest 12-1. It was the worst defeat suffered by an Irish club since the crowd is expected. 





