
.. 
j 
As two resign from Security 
... ..-~----~-------·-~~---~ ---.. 

Arson investigation will use polygraph\ 
by Pat Mangan 
As investigations continue into the recent arson-sniper incidents on campus, two security ~fficers have resigned and accordmg to James Roemer, dean of students, the University will employ poly­graph testing to examine their 
susoects. • On last night's 6 o'clock news, WSJV (channel 28) reported that Notre Dame officials apparently know who the guilty parties but do not have enough hard evidence to press charges. 
Roemer said last night, ''The University has taken the position that we do not know who the arsonists are." He also said that a number ()f suspects are being investigated. "The University is making plans for polygraph testing and many will be tested," he added. 

The University has also hired Michael Nastoff, a private investi­gator from Hoyle Clausing Associ­ates in Chicago. Nastoff's initial examination of the sites deter­mined that four of the fires were set by "accelerants" (such as gasoline or kerosene), and the fifth fire with cardboard, according to Richard Conklin, director of Information Services. 
The two Notre Dame security officers who claimed they were fired upon during one of the arson incidents have resigned. Officer Thomas Balogh, a twelve-year veteran of the South Bend Police Force and part-time employee of the University since 1969; sub­mitted his resignation on Tuesday. Robert Gardini, a full-time em­ployee of the University since 1975, resigned last Friday. 
Balogh said that he resigned his post because a job opened up that he had been seeking for some time, The South Bend Tribune reported Wednesday. Gardini was not available for comment, but accor­ding to Conklin, the security officer cited "personal reasons" for his resignation. 
Conklin affirmed that all five of the fires and the sniper incident, which took place during the mid­semester break, occurred during the officers' shifts. However, he added. "There is no hard evidence linking the fires to any individual.'' 
The two o~cers reported all but one of the incidents and on Oct. 23 reported that they dodged the bullets of a sniper while investiga­ting the boathouse blaze. 
However, Joseph WaiJ, new direc­tor of Security, and Conklin both agreed that the resignations had nothing to do with the recent 
arsons.~ 

The South Bend Tribune reported Wednesday, "Captain Elmer Chikar of the St. Joseph County police said that the investigation into the fires is continuing but he had no comment when asked if the resignations had any connection to the case.'' 
Concerning Balogh, Conklin did say it was worth noting that his resignation came at the-height of a conflict he had with the University over Notre Dame's firearms policy. 
According to Conklin, University regulations permit only certain individuals in Security to bear arms: the director of Security and the three watch commanders. "Balogh wanted to be an exception and was turned down," he said. 
Balogh maintained that as a police officer, he is required to carry a handgun at all times. Conklin added that it appeared that Balogh ignored the University policy and had been carrying a gun. Accor­ding to Conklin, Balogh earlier said that if he was not allowed to carry the gun he would have to quit. 
Since Gardini and Balogh repor­tedly chased a suspect from the Douglas Retreat house early on the 
morning  of  Oct.  24,  no  other  
·related  incid ents  or  fires  have  
occurred.  


Arson partially destroyed the NO boathouse on Oct. 23. Investigators are continuing the search for the suspect. [photo byGreg Solman] 
Brademas discusses role as member of Congress 
by Sue Wuetcher Senior Staff Reporter 
Congressman John Brademas 

(D. Ind.) discussed his role as a member of Congress and fielded questions from a small group yesterday morning in the Library Auditorium. 
Brademas stated that the modern congressman serves in several capacities. "He is an ombudsman, championing the citizens in his district. This is a very important role," he said, adding "what the federal government does makes a big impact on our lives." 
As well as being an ombudsman, a congressman must also be an ambassador from his district to Washington, working for programs for his constituents, Brademas said. 

Brademas observed that he ob­viously must be a politician as well. "There is no other legislative body where the members have to go to the electorate,'' he said. ·'I have to campaign all the time. Ifs part of the job.'' 
Responding to questions from the audience, Brademas conceded that there is a conflict between the politician role and a congressman's other roles. "It can't be helped," he said. "The energies must be shared. We must be politicians," he maintained, "in order to carry out the other roles. We have to be 
in touch with people in our dis­
trict." 
Commenting on President Car­
ter's recent measures taken to try 
to save the dollar, Brademas 
remarked that he ''applauds the 
steps taken by the President to 
combat the weakness of the dollar 
and fight inflation. However," he 
said, "I hope to combat inflation on 
several fronts, rather than relying 
on interest rate policy." 
Brademas predicted the Demo­crats will gain support in Tuesday's general election. "I see pretty much the same configurations in both the House and the Senate,'~ he said. "I call that a gain. Usually the incumbent party loses some support. If the Republicans don't do well in this kind of a situation, when will they do well? And that," he quipped, "is not a partisan observation.'' 
Brademas outlined his leadership role in the House by explaining his responsibilities as House Majority Whip. "The Whip is a policy advisor to the Speaker (of the House) if he wants to be, .. Brade­mas remarked. "He may also be from time to time a spokesman for the party.'' 
Brademas' other duties include checking on the party · vote for upcoming bills, turning out a brief one-sheet summary of the bills that are brou~ht before the House, and 
[continued on page 5] 




Friday, November 3, 1978
2 

the observer 
News Briefs____,...._. SMC features art by Hatchers 
t==::=:::==============World 
Explosion kills 52 
MEXICO CITY [AP] -A natural gas pipeline ruptured and sent a huge fireball roaring through a petroleum workers' compound in sou~hern Mexico late Wednesday, killing 52 ~rsons, officials of the Nattonal Petroleum Company Pemex reported. Pemex spokesman Miguel 1'oma~ini sai~ 21 other persons were hospitalized with burns. He satd the ptpe, the major line linking Pemex fields near Vera Cruz ~ith Mexico City, broke at about 11:30 p.m., leaking gas that burst Into flames when it reached the nearby Petroleum Camp Sanchez MJ.-gallanes. The Tabasco state police chief, Capt. Jose Serna Garcta, said the flames destroyed a group of about a dozen small restaurants and taco stands that serve bus and truck drivers a~ the crossro~~s stop, which is about 360 miles southeast of Mexico C~ty. Tomasmi told reporters the fire was brought under control 
~tth ~e .help of petroleum technicians. Officials said initial Investigations showed that the break apparently was caused by a fault in the pipe material. 
====::::::::::::=:::::::::::::=:======================= Local 

Owen loses appeal 
INDIANAPOUS [AP] -Richard Lee Owen, convicted of shooting a South Bend policeman and then wrapping him in barbed wire, lost his appeal Thursday before the Indiana Supreme Court. Owen, 32 now an inmate at the Indiana State Prison, was convicted of committing a felony while armed with a dangerous or deadly w~ap?n. He was sentenced to 27 ye~rs in prison by the St. Joseph Cttcutt .Coo~. The chB:rges agamst Owen were brought in connection. w1th the. sh~ting. of South Bend Police Cpl. Maurice Woods dunng a routme Investigatory stop of Owen's automobile on July 10, 1976. Woods was shot three times in the arm, chest and back and then played dead while Owen wrapped him in the barbed 
wire. 


Weather 

Sunny and pleasant today with highs in the low 70s. Clear and mild tonight with lows in the mid 40s. Mostly sunny and pleasant tomorrow with highs in the mid 70s. 



On Campus Today_-----.. 
Friday November 3, 1978 
1pm 
3:30pm 
4:30pm 
5:15pm 
7 pm 
7,9,11 pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 8pm 

saturday November 4, 1978 
1:30 pm  nd vs. navy at cleveland  
6:30pm  "Manoranjan", lib aud.  
7,9,11 pm  film "one on one", engr. aud $1  
7:30 pm  nd vs. denver  
7:30pm  midwest blues festival  
8pm  "sleuth", carroll hall smc  

Sunday November 5, 1978 
11 am 1 pm 
3, 6:30 and 9 pm 6:4S pm 
7:15pm 
8pm 
8pm 

judaica seminar at moreau seminary 
pro's and cons on the nestles bottle controversey, carroll hall at smc "distant thunder", engr. aud. 
cila general meeting, library lounge 
"contemporary leningrad", by professor marullo, lib. aud. by robert glasgow, organist, sacred heart church fall choral concert, o'laughlin auditorium 
texas club, farley lounge 
"are computers analogous to minds?", by richard ratty, lib. faculty lounge 
"the kobayashi metric and proper holomorphic mappings", by klas diederich, princeton university 
226 c.c.m.b. mass and dinner, at the bulla shed 
baptist student union, bulla shed "one on one", engr aud. $1 midwest blues festival, stepan center nd vs denver "sleugh", carroll hall smc, $1 
' 
feeding 
Three new art shows will open today at the Saint Mary's galleries. Keith and Flo Hatcher will display paper images in Moreau Gallery; Bruce Carter's drawings will be in the Little Theatre Gallery; and Susan K. Carter will show fabric collages in the Hammes Gallery today through Nov. 22. 
The public in invited to attend an opening reception tonight from 7-9 
p.m. Gallery hours are 9-11 .a.m. and 12:30-3 p.m., Tuesday-Frtday; and 12:30-4 p.m., Saturday and Sunday. 
With this display of fabric col­lages, Susan K. Carter opens her first professional exhibit. She received her B.F.A. from Saint Mary's in 1972 and continued study at the University of Iowa at Iowa City, and Indiana University at Bloomington, where she main­tained a private ceramics studio. 
Carter was exhibit coordinator in 1977 for the First Annual Iowa Printmaker Exhibition and is cur­rently instructor at the Davenport Municipal Art Gallery, Davenport, lA. 
"Paper Images" is a two-person 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Margie Brassil 
Asst. Night Editor: Beth Huff­
man, Jim Rudd 
Layout Staff: Pam Degnan, Mary Pat Ellis Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges 
Features Layout: Tom Behney Sports layout: Mark Perry Typists: Trish Meehan, Katie Brehl, Bill Swift, Anne Giere EMT: me and mare 
Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Copy Reader: Phil Cackley, 
John McGrath, Mike Shields Ad Layout: Tom Behney, Chris Slatt Photographer: Ken McAlpine Typists: Costume Party at my house [me] tomorrow night; You're all welcome to attend. Call 277-1071 for directions. LD and KB please come!!! 
The Observer Is publlah~ Mon­day through Friday except durtng ex.m .nd vaatlon perloda. The Observer Is publish~ by the atudents of Notre Dame and S.lnt Mary's College. Subscrtptlona may be purchased tor S2D per year (SID per semeater) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan poat..• paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Ia a member of the Anoclat~ Preaa. All repro­dudlon rtgllta are reserved. 




unted Rookshop 

52081 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 Phone (219) 277-1067 Park free next door at Karl Weis Body Shop 
"Shop now for Christmas. Get that special someone ci special book from the Haunted Bookshop. Leather and fine bindings, illustrated, fine reading copies plus 3000 used paperbacks to choose from." 
Hours: 


·m~ d.op ~ ha!Jitted by t1te ~ o6 aOO Tues.-Sat. 10am-9pm 
g'lOOt Q~...mo.~ ~ tlte ltOOdil\g
Sunday 12pm-5pm 

~cu~ ~ a OOJtiM ~.•• 
Closed on Mondays 

C. uU~eq 
show, featuring drawings and htho­graphs by Keith and Flo Hatcher. Some of the prints have been produced on handmade paper, a material made and used by the Hatchers in many of their works. 
The Hatchers will conduct a 
papermaking  workshop  for  the  
Saint Mary's  art  department top  
morrow  and  Sunday.  Planned  

specifically for College art stu­depts, the workshop is also open to interested local artists. Arrange­ments to attend may be made by calling 284-5 717. 
Flo -Hatcher received degrees from Ball State University, Indiana University's John Herron School of Art and the University of Florida. Currently teaching at the Creative Arts Workshop in New Haven, CT, 
Pat Paulsen, A Lecture in Humor 8pm Sunday November 12 O'Laughlin Aud. SMC Tickets on Sale in Programming Office, Moreau Hall SMC Students $2.00 General 'Admission $3.00 Sponsored by SMC Student Government 


SUNDAY MASSES 
AT

canpus
miniStry 
SACRED HEART CHURCH 
5:15 pm Saturday Rev. Arturo Perez 
9:15 am Sunday Rev. R. Pelton,CSC 
10:30 am Sunday Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, CSC 
12:15 pm Sunday Rev. William Toohey, CSC 
7:15 pm Vespers Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, CSC 
she formerly taught  at  Southern  . ._.  
Connecticut University ..  
Keith  Hatcher,  who  currently  
teaches  at  Southern  Connecticut  
State College, received his B.F.A.  
from the  John  Herron  School  of  

Art, Indiana University, and an 
M.F.A. from Tulane University. He has taught at the University of Florida and Northern Illinois Uni­versity. 
Flo and Keith Hatcher are mem­bers of the regular faculty of the Penland School of Crafts in Pen­land, NC. 
Bruce Carter is chairman of the department of art at Marycrest College in Davenport, lA. He received his B.A. from Notre Dame and his M.A. and M.F.A. from the University of Iowa at Iowa City. 
• 
.J • • 


... ... ...--_.------------------------------~ -----­

Dollar value climbs abroad 
[AP]--A dramatic boost in the _ of price increases toward the end of 1978 because of skyrocketing food 
Friday, November 3, 1978 the observer 
3 

overseas value of U.S. currency greeted President Carter's emer­gency save-the-dollar campaign yesterday, but there were disturbing new signals that his companion battle to curb inflation will be long and hard. 
Administration strategists were heartened by reports from foreign exchange markets that the dollar soared against every major West European currency, while gold bullion prices fell. In Tokyo, the dollar jumped by more than 4 percent against the Japanese yen in the first hours of trading after 
Carter's announcement Wednes­day. 
And in New York, the stock market edged down by 2.60 points to 82S.19 after three hours of fairly heavy trading yesterday, as investors sold for profit. However, advances held a more than 2-1 lead over declines after a buoyant day that saw the largest single-session gain in history Wednesday, a rise of 3S.34 points. 
But the administration's elation was tempered by a Labor Depart­ment report that wholesale prices, which influence the direction of future retail consumer costs, rose by 0.9 percent in October for the second consecutive month. The figures were compiled before Carter outlined his dollar-rescue measures. 
The rise was led by a 1.7 percent leap in wholesale food prices -also identical to the gain in September. Prices rose sharply last month for gasoline and home heating oil, tires, soap and detergents, clothing, leather shoes and bever­ages. 
The October increase, averaged over an entire year, would amount to about 11 percent, souring administration hopes for an easing 
1978. Consumer prices are rising prices. . . Only changes in 
at an annual rate of nearly 10 government inflationary food price 
percent. supports can moderate this current 
William Cox, the Commerce source of accelerating inflation.'' 
Department's chief economist, said There was no cause for cheers, 
the latest report, together with either, ia adjusted figures pub­
rising interest rates, "suggest lished by the Commerce Depart­
we'll be getting bad news on the ment showing that the U.S. trade 
consumer level for the rest of the deficit remained unchanged at $7.8 
year.'' billion in the July-September
Jack Carlson, chief economist of quarter. For the first nine months 
the Chamber of Commerce of the of the year, the trade deficit on the 
United States, said of the October adjusted basis stood at an annual 
figures: "Double-digit inflation is rate of $3S. 7 billion, compared with 
now likely for the remainder of last year's deficit of $31.1 biJlion. 
Security terms small blaze not related to other arsons 
by Mike Shields Staff Reporter 

A small fire was lit in the Cedar Grove Cemetary on Notre Dame Ave. Wednesday night_but Director of Security Joseph Wall said the blaze was not related to a series of deliberately-set fires that occurred on campus during the mid­semester break. 
"We don't think it is related to anything," Wall said yesterday. "It was just someone trying to cause problems.'' 
Wall said security officers 

responding  to  the  call  found  a  
flaming pile of leaves  next  to  a  
tombstone.  Officers also found  a  

cigarette lighter nearby, he added. 
A witness to the incident, who asked not to be identified, said he was driving down Notre Dame Ave. around 6:40 Wednesday night when he saw a fire in the cemetary. 
He stopped his car and ran into the cemetary where he saw a white, college-aged female with shoulder­

· Digger Phelps spoke last night in Flanner Hall. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
length blonde hair running from 
the fire calling, "Mike! Mike!" 
The witness then flagged down a 
passing car on Notre Dame Ave. 
and asked the occupants to notify 
Security of the fire. 
Wall said both Security and the 
Notre Dame Fire Department 
responded to the call, which was 
easily extinguished. The witness 
commended the quick response of 
Security, saying, "They were there 
within minutes." 
The fire resulted in minor 
damage to a tombstone bearing the' 
name "McCaffrey," Wall said. 
However, the damage was 
''nothing that can't be cleaned up 
with some soap and a brush," he 
added. 
Speakers to show 
Leningrad slides 
A slide presentation showing 
contemporary Leningrad will be 
given Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Library Auditorium. 
The presentation, which will 
focus on everyday life in the city, 
will be given by Thomas Marullo, 
assistant professor of Russian at 
Notre Dame, and Gloria J. Gibbs, a 
doctoral candidate at the University 
of Chicago. A question and answer 
period will follow the presentation. 
Both speakers were members of 
a cultural exchange, sponsored by 
the International Research and 
Exchange Board, which lasted ten 
months, from August 1977 to June 
1978. 
The program, called the Young 
Faculty Exchange Program, con­
sisted of SO faculty members from 
American universities exchanging 
places with SO faculty members 
from Russian universities. 
During this time, Marullo did 
research on Russian literature from 
the 1840's. He received his 
doctorate from Cornel in Russian 
literature and civilization and has 
been of the Notre Dame faculty 
since 197S. The presentation is 
sponsored by the department of 
Modern and Classical Languages. 

~~----~~----·---::-l 
r HAVE YOUR PORTRAITS ~
l 

WEDDING IN THE HOME J LOVE STORY ~ CREATIVELY r r TOLD CHILDREN J 
' 
i
l 

~ .ANIMALS
I 

PHOTOCOPY [ AND INSTANT J RESTORATION 2810 MISHAWAKA AVE PASSPORTS & 
~ 232-9963 AP;~~:J~ON ~ 


L------~~~~~~~~----~~-~ 
****************************** 
I TIMM PARTY STORE Ii OPEN:MON-SAT 9am-llpm i* SUNDAY 12 noon -11 pm * 
i BEERSALE i 
: 3114 S.l1 ST. NILES, MICHIGAN:
* 1 Block North of State Line on U.S. 31 * 
****************************** 

MIDWEST BLUES 7:30pm 
Fri. Nov.3 
Sat. Nov. 4 Martin, Bogan, and 

Dr. Ross 

The Armstrongs (the harmonica boss) 
Jimmy Rogers, 

Sonny Rhodes 

Left-Handed Frank, Good Rockin Charles 
Johnny Lee Hooker 

Albert Collins 

Stepan Center 
ND/SMC Festival Pass $6 
Friday Only $4 Saturday $5 
'bring a blanket and friends' 
ACHIEVEMENT COUNTS at NOTRE DAME 

Bob Kovach for State Senate 
m his first term as your State Senator, Bob Kovach compiled a record important to you:**Expansion of the state scholarship program, including the 'Freedom of Choice' grants so important to students attending private colleges. **Along with 200 ND/SMC students, Kovach successfully fought cutbacks to the local hospital for disabled children. 
**Secured state aid for the expansion project at the Michiana Regional Airport, which means improved facilities for student air-travelers. **Authorized landmark legislation concerning special education for children in the State of Indiana. 




and ST. MARY'S 

John Brademas 
for U.S. Congress, 
During his service as your U.S, Representative, John Brademas has earned a reputation as education's most effective advocate in Congress. Among his accomplishments: **Helped author most major Federal legisl~tion concerning elementary and secondary education, higher education and education of the handicapped. **Sponsored the new Middle Income Student Assistance Act which makes all students eligible for the guaranteed student loan program, regardless of family income. 
**Voted, along with Father Hesburgh, one of the nation's four most influential leacfers in higher education. 
**Awarded honorary desrees by fourteen colleges awJ nniyeQities including Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
VOTE TUESDAY NOVEMBER 7 


Friday, November 3, 1978 
the obsaner
4 


Navy-NO 
Kegger Special at 
WAYNEtS OAK DAIRY PARTY STOR WiTH EACH KEG PURCHASED, Keg Party Package WE WILL SUPPLY AT 

NO CHARGE 
niles mich. 50 cups
stateline line rd . ..c 
~ 


271bs of ice
0 
c 
-
M 


tapper rental
!It 


' tub rental 
Q41ii 

if~ open 9 to midnight mon-sat71 •open 12 to midnight sunday call 684-4950 
STATELINE ROAD iN NILES ONE BLOCK EAST OF US ll 






Take a left at the Waterfall. 
Father Frisch is on his way to work. Today, he's scheduled to visit the mission hospital deep in the Taiwan mountains. He's helping people out there. And he loves it. 
At our Divine Word College, we train Catholic priests, brothers, and lay missionaries for work in anyone of 37 countries. 
For more information on our work return the coupon today. 
Crt'/ ________State ---Zip--­
~ ------Education ------­
ND782 


Rhodesia behind raid 

Warplanes stage bombing 
LUSAKA, Zambia [AP] • 
Rhodesian warplanes defiantly 
ignoring British efforts to build up 
Zambia's air defenses staged a 
lightning bombing run yesterday 
on a black nationalist position 
outside this capital city, reportedly 
inflicting at least 100 casualties. 
The Rhodesian military said the 
target was a black Rhodesian 
guerrilla camp. The Zambian 
government contended it was a 
refugee children's camp, but at 
least one independent source ,disputed this. 
It was the Rhodesians' first 
cross-border strike into Zambia 
since airborne raiders attacked a 
dozen black guerrilla camps two 
weeks ago, killing a reported 1,500 
insurgents. Since then Britain has 
airlifted ground-to-air missiles, 
radar networks and anti-aircraft 
batteries to Zambia, a former 
colony, in an obvious effort to ward 
off further Rhodesian air attacks. 
The Carter administration 
quickly denounced the cross-border 
sally, as it did after the Oct. 19-21 
raids. In Washington, State 
Department spokesman Kenneth 
Brown called the latest attack a 
''further unwarranted and 
deplorable escalation of the 
Rhodesian war." 
The raided camp was about 10 
miles west of the capital. 
Observers in Lusaka could hear the 
explosions and see columns of 
smoke rising in the sky during the 
attack. 
Apparently the sophisticated 
new British equipment was not put 
into action. A British Embassy 
spokesman here said part of the aid 
program would be the assignment 
of British technicians to teach 
Zambians how to operate the 
weapons. 
Red Cross ambulances and private cars ferried casualties into Lusaka hospitals. One Lusaka medical source said about 100 casualties, described as "soldiers," were brought in to the main Lusaka hospital. It was not clear whether they were dead or wounded, or whether they were Rhodesian guerrillas or Zambian troops. 
The Rhodesian military issued a communique in Salisbury saying all its planes returned safely after the raid. An hour before the attack was announced in Salisbury, that city's residents heard three Hawker­Hunter jet fighters fly overhead. 

A Zambian government state­the Salisbury government. In ment said the raiders bombed a another conflicting report, ZAPU refugee camp for Rhodesian child­sources in Lusaka said the camp ren. But a Red Cross official who was named "Victoria" and housed visited the two known black as many as 10,000 women, babies Rhodesian refugee camps on the and girls. outskirts of Lusaka reported that The Rhodesian sources said the neither had been hit. Victoris camp was some distance 
Rhodesian military sources in from Victory. Salisbury identified the camp as The Salisbury communique said "Victoria," a guerrilla base used the raid was carried out with by fighters of Joshua Nkomo's "pinpoint accuracty" and was Union, which is fighting a six-year­ordered "as a result of information old war inside Rhodesia to topple received from captured terrorists." 
Vietnam stops two attacks of invading Chinese troops 
Bangkok, Thailand [AP] ·Vietnam said yesterday its forces repulsed two separate attacks by hundreds of Chinese troops who crossed into northern Vietnam and killed or wounded many Vietnamese sol­diers. 
A Voice of Vietnam broadcast from Hanoi said thousands of Chinese reinforcements were dis­patched to the border area on the Chinese side. It described the situation as ''critical'' and said the Foreign Ministry condemned the alleged border violations as "crimi nal acts." 
Western sources in: Bangkok said tension along the frontier has mounted in recent weeks, but speculated that a full-scale conflict was unlikely. They also noted that official Chinese media has not reported much on the border situation. 
The quarrel was sparked earlier this year by Chinese accusations that Vietnam was mistreating its ethnic Chinese population. The situation worsened as about 160,000 of the Chinese made their way to China. Beneath this, most analysts see China's anger at Vietnam's close ties to the Soviet Union and Vietnam's ongoing bor­der war with Cambodia, a Chinese ally. 
The official Vietnamese broad­casts claimed that a large number of Chinese troops penetrated the Trung Khanh district of Cao Lang Province on Wednesday. A later broadcast said hundreds of Chinese soldiers crossed into Cao Loc district near the site of the earlier incident, opened fire and set up observation posts before being driven away by Vietnam militia men Wednesday night. 
The radio said rriany Vietnamese 
were killed and wounded at Trung 
Khanh but gave no casualties for. 
the Cao Loc fighting, where it 
claimed Vietnamese militiamen 
drove the Chinese back across the 
border and destroyed observation 
posts they had set up on Vietna­
mese territory. 

here was no independent confir­
mation of the fighting. The area of 
conflict in about 140 miles north­
east of Hanoi, the Vietnamese 
capital. 

The Voice of Vietnam claimed four 
similar border incidents have oc­
curred since Oct. 27, ranging from 
the stabbing of Vietnamese border 
guards to destruction of frontier 
fe.nces. 

Negotiations to end the Chinese­
Vietnamese quarrel have been 
suspended and the frontier has 
been closed. Each side has 
accused the other of violations. 
A Vietnamese delegation led by Communist Party chief Le Duan and Premier Pham Van Dong currently is in Moscow and Indo­china watchers in Bangkok say the Sino-Vietnamese dispute will cer­tainly be on the agenda of talks with Soviet leaders. 
Factors being watched by analysts are how much the Soviet Union would be willing to help Vietnam in the event of greater hostilities and how Moscow would go if China cracked down on Vietnam if it decided to launch a major thrust into Cambodia. 
A build-up of Vietnamese forces along the Cambodian border has been reported recently by U.S. intelligence sources in Washing­ton. 
c a 
""I 

Friday, November 3, 1978 the observer 
Student hospitalized 


FREE WHOPPERI
Passing-up leads to injury 
with any
by John McGrath day's session included the problem DelGrande pointed out that there Staff Reporter of cans and bottles being thrown at has actUally been "a marked Repercussions are still being felt pep rallies, abusive drinking at decline" in the number of incidents album or tape 
from an incident at the Sept. 30 tail-gater parties on Green Field in the past few years of students 
Purdue football game in which a and problems connected with the passing people up through the purchase
Notre Dame student was injured "Senior Death March." stands. 
while in the process of being In a letter dated Nov. 1, the three ''I feel that what we need is a 
"passed up" through the crowd. student leaders respondel,i to greater awareness on the part of all The student received a serious Roemer's concern for the stadium students of the problem and its back injury after she was dropped incident by stating that the matter possible consequences,'' RIVER CITY RECORDS head-first into the stands. The would be addressed by the HPC. DelGrande commented. injury required hospital attention The letter said the HPC would be Roemer felt, however, that some and has resulted in a considerable responsible for "getting the word action must be taken because 50970 US 31 North 
loss of class-time for the victim. out" about the "passing" situa­under the present University rules, "I feel that this (passing tion, advising the student body specifically regulations one and two (3 miles north of campus)
students through the crowd) is a through normal representative in du Lac, it would be close to 
very serious problem.'' Dean of channels. impossible to prosecute a student 
Students James Roemer said, Roemer was doubtful that the for engaging in "passing up" 
adding that in addition to the HPC's plan would be effective in activities. Northern Indiana's largest 
Purdue case, he often receives convincing some members of the Rule one prohibits actions that 
complaints from female students student body of the seriousness of constitute ''any threat or deliberate 
who resent the practice. consequences of incidents such as injury to the person of another .... " record and tape selection & The topic was brought up both at the one that occured during the and the second regulation outlaws 
the Campus Life Council (CLC) Purdue game. ''...willfull damage to the reputa-, concert ticket headquarters 
meeting on Monday night, and at a He made it clear, however, that tion of psychological well-being of ! 
special meeting in Roemer's office he favors only as a last resort a new others." 't--------------------------~ 
on Tuesday attended by Andy University directive dealing 
McKenna, student body president, specifically with the problem. over 15,000 records&tapes 
Jayne Rizzo, judicial coordinator, The dean stressed problems with PET enters plus quick special order servic
and Chuck Delgrande, chairman of enforcement of a new directive as a 
the Hall Presidents Council (HPC). major reason why his office is 
chess contest
Other matters discussed at Tues hesitant to put out a directive. (We have lots of Springsteen, Seger& 
A Micro-Chess 2.0 Program, Neil Young in stockl)loaded into the memory of a PET

Stouffer's Inn to hold 
computer, has entered this year's 

~m~t~ Rockne Chess Clall Champ­Ionsfups. The tournament, which


pre-NO vs Navy rally 
Concert tickets now on sale
begiins at 9 a.m. tomorrow in Room 326 of the Mathematics Building,
A pre-game ND vs. Navy rally le~ics at N~tre Dame. A cash bar 
will feature the first man vs. 
The Moody Blues
will be held in Cleveland tonight wt~ be available. . 
computer contest in the state of
from 8 to midnight in the grand post-game . celebration and indi<tna.
ballroom at the Stouffer's Inn on awards presentat.JOn will be .held at 
Stadium

The Championships will continue 
the Square Admission price is $2 5 p.m. tomorrow m the Enghsh Oak 
on Sunday. There is an entrance
per person 'and $1 for the students. Room of the . Terminal Tow~r 
fee of $8 and United Stated 
Foreigner Ambrosia
The event will feature a live Concourse, ~bhc Squ3:r~. ~ Mustc 
Chess Federation membership is
band the Notre Dame cheerleaders and snacks ~til be provided. 
required to participate. Spectators
and 'special guest speaker Ed Aw~rds wtll be pr~sented to the 
Sat. Nov. 11-Notre Dame
are invited to attend. For further
"Moose" Krause director of ath-offenstve and defensive players of 
' the game. The Waterford Crystal information call Sam Shapiro at 
2'34-9648.·
WSND features Bowl will be awarded to the 
winning team. 

Bob 5eger& The Silver Bullet Band 
hockey 

SUn. Dec. 3-Read Fieldhouse,

tri-captains Representative Brademas 
WSND's Speaking of Sports will feature the hockey tri-captains on 
Westem Michigan University, Kalamazoo 
AM 640 this Sunday night. 

speaks on major concerns 
Listeners can call in and talk to 
Queen

Greg Meredith, Steve Scheider, 
Thursday,Dec. 7-Chicago Stadium
and Tom Michalek, in addition to [continued &om page 1] Education and Labor, and chairs anthe WSND sports staff, from 9-11 
education s u be om m ittee that H------------------------------------------------" 
p.m. nominating congressmen for com­serves elderly and handicapped 
,....A--1-0-0-A-Y_S_E_M-IN_A_R~ mittees and chairmanships. adults. He is also concerned with 
Brademas, who represents In-drug and alcohol abuse education IN ISRAEL diana's third Congressional dis-and the education of handicapped Specially planned for trict, an area that contains South children. He sits on another 
Bend, Notre Dame, and St. Mary's, subcommittee that writes majorSeminary Faculty acknowledged that South Bend forms of federal assistance to Departure Date: Dec. 30, 1978 couldn't have received the new students. 
Price: $649.00 federal office building if he hadn't Brademas added that as well as Includes airfare. hotels. been the Whip. "It's possible to being interested in education, he and all accomodations get more done if you're in the right also serves on the Committee for For further information contact: position," he admitted. "Call it Hous¢ Administration. ''This is Rabbi Chaim Plotzker democracy, democratic politics." basically ~ housekeeping commit­American Zionist Federation Brademas outlined his legislative tee,"\I. he. . said. "We reform 515 Park Avenue role by listing the various commit-campalgn financing laws and pro-New York, N.Y. 10022 tees he works with. He is a vide for the preservation of special 
(212) 371-7750 member of the Committee on papers." 
~----------~~~~~--------------~ 
Bob DuComb... 
His effective style of leadership is 
a matter of record. 
Members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's communities know State Representative Robert J. DuComb as a responsible spokesman for their interests. He had the vision and courage to back increased funding for state scholarships and higher tax credits for contributions to private colleges and universities. He supports a more realistic legal drinking age. Bob DuComb plah a key role in the fight for Governor Bowen's tax relief program. He works hard to bring more state services to Northern Indiana. Bob DuComb is so effective that his fellow legislators picked him for leadership and newspapers have described him as one of Indiana's best legislators. So vote to keep Bob DuComb on the job. : 






TATE REPRESENTATIVE 
Authorized and paid for by Volunteers for DuComb, James Dettling, treasurer . 
. 


Enjoy the Blues Festival this weekend 
at Stepan Center 
We have one of the largest selections of rare and popular blues albums in th 

r-~----------------------~---~ 



Sl.OOOFF 
Any $10.00 album or tape purchase­now through Dec.l (Not valid on cut-outs or sale items) 
I 

RIVER CITY RECORDS I 
I I 1 50970 US 31 North I 
I South Bend 2 7 7-4242 I 
I I I I 1 Open 10-10 7 days a weeki I I I
mastercharge, Visa, student checks I
1

I I 
I II I ­IOur second store is now open~ 1
I I
4625 Westem Ave., 
-===================::c:::===================-~---------...~------------.--.---_____.J. 
-~ 

the obHIYer Friday, November 3, 1978 
HEI.D Week days 7-9:20 
Upperclassmen to pre-register
OVER 
byMarkPeny Staff Reporter 
Seniors and juniors should be receiving their Form SO's some time early next week as the first step in the pre-registration process for courses next semester, accord­ing to Beverly Fisette, assistant registrar at Notre Dame. 
"Once the seniors and juniors receive their Form SO's," Fisette said, "they can begin to pick up cards for courses in their major." Beginning on Nov. 9 for seniors and Nov. 10 for juniors, students can pick up cards for the rest of their checkmarked courses, she added. 
The revised schedule of courses 
is now available for students to 
begin plotting their schedules, 
Fisette said. These are available in the department offices, she said. outside of the College of Arts and 

Counseling Center out to hold workshop on woman's roles The Counseling Center wiiJ otter a workshop on "Women's Role Awareness" to help women be­come more aware of the options available to them, and to explore ways to COJ?.e with potential obsta­cles. Specific issues to be address­ee include marriage, family, ca­reer, friendships and legal rights. The group will meet in the Lewis"A COMIC ASSAULT' Hall Recreation Room from·7:30 to 9:30 p.m. on three consecutive Sundays beginning this Sunday. For further information, contact Joan Biever at 1717.  
A BROTHER IN NEED  
I shall walk this way but once. If there is any good that I can do, let me not defer it, for I shall not pass this way again. Epitaph on an old English grave. "Win one for the Gipper!" still has a special ring about it on this campus. Whether the challenge was fact or fiction for a fullI half-century it has lived on of how unusual determination made the difference in a tough battle. "Win one for Bill Kolb!" is what this announcement is all about. The whole school is the team being invited to accept the challenge. It's not a game in question, but it is a battle: cancer. Bill has the determination to beat it. Will you underscore his faith and hope with some of your time and prayer?II was a recipient of t That's what this Mass is for: to help you reach out to a fellownights of Columbus Pro student. For Bill, this prayerful gesture will be an addedPro Patria Scholarship. incentive to keep fighting the battle. For you, it will mean renewed awareness that we are our brother's keeper--or, better, our brother's brother. Common concern, openly expressed, is Bill D. Kolb is the immediate past part of our Notre Dame tradition. I urge you to go public with chief squire of Father Minges that tradition Sunday night. "Win one for Bill Kolb!" We shall Circle No. 1915 in St. Clement, Mo. walk this way but once.... He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Kolb of Bowling Green, Fr. Dennis D. Evenson,Mo., and a graduate of Bowling Assistant Chaplain, Green R-1 High School. He has Knights of Columbus entered the University of Notre Dame to prepare for a career in the arts. Bill was president of the National Honor Society and ranked ,...----------...­.....____________ first in his class. He was named to the All-Conference and All-Dis­7 m. -Meet in front of trict football teams. He served the .,__.__ state circle as sentry and notary. Knights of Columbus BuildingHis father, a business executive, is past grand knight of St. Clement Council No. 1928. -----------~·7..;.:..:.1.:.5-Candlelight Procession to Grotto 7:30 -Mass at the Grotto for the Recuperation of Bill Kolb THIS SUNDAY In case of inclement weather: Mass will be held in the KofC building  

Actual pre-registrattion begins Letters. ·Sophomores will ·~· on Nov. 13, Fisette said, when pick up checkmarked cards for Arts seniors can begin turning in their and Letters courses at Stepan Form SO's and checkmarked cards Center on Nov. 15. at Stepan Center from 9 a.m. to Fisette added that seniors and 
4:30 p.m. Juniors can complete juniors should try to complete their their pre-registration on Nov. 14 at pre-registration on Nov. 13 and 14, the same times. 
"because it will be much easier at 
Sophomores should be receiving this time. The final day, when the their Form SO's on Nov. 13, Fisette sophomores complete their pre­said, at which time they can pick up registration, is always the busiest checkmarked cards for courses 
time." 

Nader attacks corporate influence of education 
[continued from page 1] 
That ''power'' is influencing the. educational systems of the country, Nader said. "Their influence sends 
.specific signals to college
admtnstrators about what the students should learn, and what they can say and do. It is a signal that inhibits administrators.'' 
"Universities," Nader said
.. .
approach learning from the corporate perspective ... When is it that you are going to say 'enough of this paternalism'? They are telling you to be kiddies, kiddies." 
Nader,, a Harvard Law graduate, asked, 'What do they teach you here? Not once in law school did my professor say, 'Today we are going to discuss why 80 percent of Americans cannot use their legal system'.'' 
Educators in the fields of engineering, chemistry, medicine and business were all caUed to talk by Nader for their "lack of conscience,'' but he saved his most colorful criticism for the field of law. 
''I once asked my law professor w~y we had no courses dealing wtth food laws. More people use it than property, you know. After he got his breath back he told me that 
the  study  of  food  laws  lacked  
'intellectual  substan ce',"  Nader  
reflected.  

Nader whipped off a volley of statistics supporting his argument that "the tools of thinking in schools" have become "thinkings that make you tools of the corporate world," an observation that drew a round of applause from the audi­ence. . "F?rty percent of the engineers m thts country are working on death weapons. They could be 
putting that same research to use 
working on solar energy develop 
ment," he said. "But you know 
what they call (solar energy)? They 
say it's just sophisticated plumb­
ing." · 
Nader repeatedly chided a stu­
dent attitude "that says 'gotta. 
memorize, gotta make grades, 
gotta get into Texaco."' "Is that 
the way you want to go down in 
history?" he asked. 

He told his audience to "look at 
who comes recruiting on campus. 
Only the big companies that can 
afford to, that's who. Next time 
you are at an interview, ask them if 
you can bring your conscience to 
work with you at their company.'' 
"I guarantee you," he added, 
''if yo·u do, you will lose 95 percent 
of all your job opportunities." 
Nader exhorted students to et 
involved in InPIRG (the Indiana 
Public Interest Research Group), a 
seven-year-old citizens group 
composed primarily of students. 
"Right now you have a chance, 
with a little effort, to leave a legacy 
for other students in the future," 
Nader said, in reference to the 
activities of InPIRG. 

Students should 
pick up season 
hockey tickets 
Students who have purchased season tickets for the Notre Dame hockey team, and have not picked them up yet, should do so by 5 p.m. this afternoon, prior to the opening home game. Tickets can be picked up at the second floor box office of the ACC. 

'1 


~n independent newspaper serving the notre dame and saint mary's community 
Box Q Notre Dame Ind. 46556 

The Observer is published by students of the University .of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It do~s not.necessanly reflect the polic1es of the administration of e1ther ~nst.1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and as ob!ec~1vely as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a ma)onty of the Editorial Board Commentanes, opinions ~nd le~ters are the views of their authors Column space iS av~dable to .all members of the community, and the fr~e expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Execut1ve Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editonal Editor Phil Cackley Cor\ Ed1tor jean Powley St. Mary's Ed1tor Ann Gales News Editor M1ke Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production Manager john Tucker Business Manager Bob Rudy Advertising Manager 
Friday, November 3, 1978 
Nicaragua, a country of 2,200,000, has suffered through and is cur­rently beset with many hardships and injustices. 60o/o of the popula­tion has an average income of less than $100. The infant mortality rate in 145 per 1000 births. There are 6 doctors for every 10,000 people. 99o/o of the rural house­holds have neither running water nor plumbing. The government spends an equivalent of one-sixth its military budget on health, and one-fifteenth of the military budget on education. The latest unem­ployment figures before the recent uprising were in the area of 40%. 
In light of the grim statistics, it is easier to understand the ocntinued and widespread uprisings against Gen. Somoza, the dictator of Nicaragua. Nationwide business strikes and demonstrations have occurred throughout Nicaragua since January, 1978. With the latest series of uprisings, the revolutionary movement in Nica­ragua has achieve~ a much stro~g­er course of direction. Te Sandm­ista's, (a popularity supported group whose goals are to overthrow Somoza, to redistribute Somoza's wealth and to disband the Nation Guard) have emerged as the only militant organized opposition to Somoza. They received wide­spread public approval and accla­mation from the Nicaraguan people when a group of Sandinista's engineered a take over of the National Palace in Managua. 
The Sandinista's have now emer­ged as the leaders in the continued struggle to eliminate Somoza from the government and establish a society based on a more equitable 
distribution of power and we~!h· 
In September, the upn.s10gs against Somoza took on a vtolent nature. A large number of rural towns became the scenes of armed uprisings. Students, workers a~d housewives set up barracades 10 the streets in defiance of the National Guard and Somoza. Somoza responded by se!l~in~ the National Guard to these ctties man attempt to suppress the peopl~. ~n the interim period, the Sandtmsta s felt it neccessary to respond to the situation. The Sandinista's, (many whom are forced to live in the mountains of Nicaragua out of fear for their lives) joined and rein­forced the people who were pro­
testing against Somoza. The Sandinista's were well received by the people, who, with the San­dinista's, were willing to make a valiant stand against the govern­ment. But after violent confronta­tions with the National Guard, the popular forces realized they were 

~~~m:,~~'~'''' A Brother In Need 
=========bob beUissimo 
,. In the years I have spent at Notre Dame, I have found something ~ this . · University that makes it a place unlike any other. ~at ~e have IS the heralded Notre Dame Spirit, a deep and exuberant pnde m what we ~ and what we can become. The Spirit manifests itseH in many fm:ns. It IS · · the roar of the crowd at athletic events, the deep concentration of a student at his studies, and a pervading style that sets the student of Notrel'~.~~l"'•••:;: Dame apart from his contemporaries. Our Spirit also ~veals. itself in our 
···~·ditt$.!:: unity, the way we aid and support our brothers ~d siSters m the Notre 
: Dame Community. 
. 

A member ~four com~umty now needs our assistance. Bill Kolb, a freshman resident of Carroll Hall and member of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, h.as recently undergone two very. senou.s opera­.. ti?ns to rem.ove mal1gnan.c1e.s from · h1s lymphatic system.. Bill .m no~ ·, · recovenng at home m M1ssoun. The operations appear to have b~n successful. Nonetheless~ .Btll . needs the .moral and spmtu~ 
.,.. support of hts fellow me~bers m the Notre Dame Commumty · He needs our prayers, our good wishes, and a.strong show of our concern for hts health. Sue~ a respons~ wo~l~ do much to m~­prove hts spmts and speed hts return to Notre Dame. To demonstrate our concern for Bill, the Knights of Columbus and the me~bers of Carroll Hall a~e sponsonng a MasThsto Spray. for hilt~ 
speedy recovery. e c::rvtces w begin at 7 pm, Sunday, m front of the Knights of Columbus Hall. Those attending will take part in a candlelight procession to the 
M will be h ld.

Grotto, where a ass e 
All members of the Notre Dame Community are asked to attend this service as a gesture of support for Bill and the members of his family. 
Following the Mass, Bill's Brother Knights from Notre Dame Council #1477 will begin a vigil: Two Knights will visit the Grotto each day in order to maintain a candle that will bum until Bill returns to Notre Dame. 
In response to a request by Knights of Columbus Trustee Ken Catalano, Head Football Coach Dan Devine and the members of the football team have already acted. Th~y are providing a football, signed by each member of the team, that will be presented to Bill as a gift. 
PI ase try to attend the service for ;ill Kolb. Show your concern by offering your hand to a brother 
in need. 
Bob Bellissimo is the current Gnmd Knight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus CouncU and an R.A. in Carroll Hall. 

.~e,1£ ot a ~\J~ 
ouuntnr1ea. an<lmltsta's re­treated, fearing their own anilation and the subsequent total destruc­tion of the towns. Many rural cities were left defenseless but still defiant against the government. 
Somoza, attempting to show off his military strength and to enact revenge on those not in support of his government, allowed the National Guard to bomb and des­troy, at will, the defiant popula­tions. Looting of homes and mass murders of young men occured throughout the Nicaraguan coun­tryside. 
Nicaragua, a poor country to start with, is still in a state of panic. Business is far from normal. The harvest has been ignored. There is little investment money flowing into the country. Large sectors of the work force are unemployed or have become inoperative. Refu­gees from the civil war are every­where. 
The Nicaraguan Catholic Church, together with the private business sectors of the Nicaraguan Development Institue have asked the mediation of three friendly nations <~.exico, Colu~bia! and the Domtmcan Repubhc) 10 .an attempt to end the civil war wht~h divides the country. Somoza dtd not accept the. Catholic Church's offer. Instead, _tt IJ!J!ears he p~ans to strengthen hts milttary P?St~on. Unconfirmed reports have tndtcat­ed that large quantities of arms and a dozen helicopters have be~n purchased from Israel. Somoza s continued refusal to step down or allow for a mediated solution leaves little hope that Nicaragua's future will be a peaceful one. . . 
International pressure and atd ~ support of the Nicaragu~ people ts needed. An "Intemation&! Fund for Assistance to the Vic~ms of Nicaragua" has been organtzed by Don Sergio Mendez .Arceo, Bishop of Cuenavac~, ~extco. T~e fun­damental objectives of thts fund are: 1. To encourage respect for the right of the Nicaraguan people for. auto-detef!Dination .ba~ed on thetr democratic sove~etgmt~: 2. To denounce throu~~ mtema~onal pressure the atrocities commttted against the Nicaraguan people. 3. To ini~ate a ~tro1_1g e~ort of international sohdanty wtth the Nicaraguan people, con~.tely ex­pressed in money, medtcme and other. basic nec.essities. The fund cons~tutes an tns~ment of COO!'­dination for assistance and. ts entrusted by the popular organtza­
tions of Nicaragua.  .  
Money  caJ'l  be  contribut~d  at  
Notre  Dame.  Money  will  be  

collected by the Worl~ . Hunger Coalition in front of the dm10g halls on Nov. 7. 
In order to supplement newa articles which deal with lntema· donal and socW justice conceru, a bi-monthly column will appear OD the editorial paae of the Obaerver. This column ''Tblnl World: Straa· gle of a People," Ia a contribatlon &om CILA, World Bunger eo.ll· tion, LAPEL [Ladn Amerbn Pro­pam of Esperlmeatal Yamlaalt Amneaty lnteraatlonal, ..tt Cadena [1111 oflke of the IMia American lnfoi'IIWiou Senlee]. 
~-~ ~ -----~-----~-------------~-------------------------­
the ObS8fV8[ Friday, November 3, 1978 
Reverend Robert Griffin
Letters to a lonely God 




1 Oon't want to se JOhn tRavotta 

On Monday morning, I received a phone call from a special friend who wanted to travel a long distance to come and see me. I had expected the phone call, and I had thought about the visit. I knew my friend couldn't afford the trip, but she saved up for it anyway. I knew that the days she would spend on campus were vacation days she had reserved exclusively for me. Yet, when she called on Monday morning, I said: "Please don't come; right now, I don't have the time to see you." The words sounded very cruel; I've felt guilty ever since I said them. It sounds so churlish to say "Stay away" to a friend who adores you. 
Even in a busy life, we fritter away time in idleness. We wake in the morning, and sit on the side of the bed smoking cigarettes, waiting for the night's numb­ness to recede so that we can see the sun. We linger over the first cups of coffee, studying ourselves like Lazarus, making sure that his heart really beats. We walk with the dog in the noonday, pausing before every post and tree, sniffing out the tracks of rabbits, nosing around for snacks that have strayed from a picnic basket. In the afternoon come the naps we never planned on taking; and in the evening we read the newspapers as though they were letters from horne promising money. We are thieves of timetables we have set for ourselves, like a farmer stealing apples form his own tree. Yet, when a friend wants to see us, we call in the militia to guard the orchard. "You are bothering me," we complain inwardly, "because you want attention. Don't you know how selfish you are, wanting attention from a busy man like me?" Apples kept for all our own uses can turn out to have a very bitter taste. 
In our visits with old friends, we really give them more than time, if we cherish 





mtOwest stues 
by Bob Kissel 

"I'm back again! I love it here! Notre Dame I love you!'' 
The piercing oaths of a true-bfue Notre Dame alumnus? Hardly. Those words belong to the late Theodore ''Hound Taylor, a 65 from the was pl Blues another 
Midwest 1970, rolls Saturday at 7 Festival, history, has and high q forms of true 
But what festival of designed to important Sponsored Arts formed from full stylistic 
And what it? At the musical 
when country performers, often termed . or show blues women like Edith Wilson ed both the and the fast 
Oassic for very counterparts vaudeville and New Orleans styled jazz. Though many country blues artists lived on and refused to change their style ota music, several performers like Muddy Waters and Howlin' Wolf, both originally country artists, changed with the times. They added-lively, up-beat rhythm sections of guitar, piano, bass, drums and often harmonica to support the singer. This development from the 1940's is usually called urban or swing blues. This 

· change had a profound effect on the whole character of blues presentation.
• 
Following World War II, blues music was amplified and heard as a swinging, aggressive sound performed in the many Chicago South Side neighborhood clubs and taverns. The urban blues have endured for many years, though slowly yielding to the contemporary blues sound of younger artists such as Albert King and Son Seals. The modern city blues sound is marked by hard electric guitar lines, raw-edged vocal licks, and often horn and reed rhythm sections. 

Blues is a highly structured yet indivi­dualized form of music which belies t-t1+,...... 
ay virtually every style of music from the 
half of the century, including ragtime, country, and jazz. combining these stringed instruments with masterful execu­tion gives a sound that can be sweet, melancholy, or just pli.in fun. Martin, Bogan and Armstrong have been together since 1931, and the breadth of their repertoire is truly amazing. T)le band has a loyal following across the globe, and Midwest Blues is one of their favorite audiences. 
The middle act on Friday is an all-star swing blues jam of lead guitarist Jimmy Rogers, second guitar Left-Handed Frank, and on harp (harmonica) good Rockin' Charles. Of the bluesmen influential in shaping and refining the post-war Chicago blues, Jimmy rogers stands with the likes of Muddy Waters and Little Walter. 

Rogers' warm vocals complements the sturdy, controlled pulsation of his guitar work. Couple these talents with his penchant for writing and he is a no­nonsense musician, durable and enjoyable. Teaming with Jimmy on guitar is little­known, but veteran SO's bluesman Left­recently .............~;v blues label. As Frank has the city, rhythmic group is one blowers, blends of the 
screaming 
VUl AJ:::llllit 
his playing when it the man for some horne in Friday quiet, half­with a long 
years ago , Texas, · in 1961 for Sonny playing recording some played own club, Oakland has been for. A n record on Blues. sings and emotton that 

geel it. In addition, Sonny . plays steel guitar in the tradition of his great friend L.C. Robinson. It is with great excitement that Midwest Blues is bringing in Sonny Rhodes from the West Coast to show his blues' talent. • 
An last but certainly not least, John Lee Hooker takes the stage at Midwest Blues for his first time ever, in the headliner position. There are few bluesrnen around with the long and full musical experience of Hook. Born in 1917 in Clarsdale, Mississippi (birthplace of Robert Johnson, Son House, and Muddy Waters), Hooker grew up in an area where it was especially hard to be black, and the music of the blues artists from this area -and Hooker -reflect this experience. Hooker's work relies on percussive guitar with stomping chords slashed out, laced with walking b2ss lines, them. It's the cherishing that can drain us of energy; it's the cherishing that scares us off from having time to see them: being sensitive towardwhether they are tired, or bored, or in pain; knowing the exact moment for saying the supportive word, or paying the needed compliment, deserved or not; matching their moods if they are happy, or cheering htem up when they are sad; stroking, always stroking, when stroking is the gesture they cry out for; honoring the gods of their household, reverent before the altars they serve; gentle in humor, repectful in argument, 
patient until  tears  turn  to laughter;  as  
loving  with  their  faults  as  with  their  
charms.  

In the best friendships, when the cherish­ing is mutual, then the relationship is like a dance that starts slowly, like a beginners' waltz. _The feet trace out patterns of movement. The body learns the rhythm that the heart is feeling. The arms grow to feel at home with the intimacy of holding and being held. The hands learn the point at which fingertips touch. Gradually, the dancers feel at ease with their partner's grace as they move to the music of being cheek to cheek. 
My problem, in using such a metaphor, is that I don't want to be John Travolta. Right now, on this campus, in this November, if I'm sincere about the work I want to do, I haven't got time to be John Travolta, and Saturday night fever needn't bother to darken my door. 
I'm afraid I'm too old and too selfish to be a friend to anyone in a special way. When someone want to be a friend to me, I say: "Keep away, and don't come near. I haven't got ti'me to see you now." 
I know some very simple words of a poem. The words describe the kind of friend I'd like to be, and the kind of friend I'd like to have. 
I like you because when I tell you 
something special--you 
know it's special, and you remem­ber it a long, long time, 
and you say to me--' 'remember when you told me something special?" and 
both of us remember. And you know how to be silly. Boy, are you ever silly. I never met anyone sillier than me til I met you. But you know when it's time to stop being silly, maybe tomor­row, maybe the next day--oops, too. late, it's quarter past silly. But that's because you like me, don't you--and I like you back, and that's the way we keep on going every day. If you find two four-leaf clovers, you give me one; if we find three we keep on looking. Some­times we have good luck and sometimes we don't. You really like me, don't you, and I really like you back. I don't know when I didn't like you. It must have been lonesome then. 

I wish friendships could be as simple as poems about being friends. 
I wish the words "Stay away" could be understood as a c:herishing phrase, spoken to a dear and special friend whom you don't want to hurt by neglecting her when you're busy being idle. 
• I wish I wasn't too old to want to be John Travolta.• 
I wish I wasn't lonesome for a friend whom I told not to come. 
and vocals that are both plamttve cnes ana 
• frightening screams. John Lee has been called the pioneer of R & B (rhythm and blues). His earlies recordings, under various pseudonyms, stand as testament to the raw Hooker, nasty and full speed ahead. Fo~Midwest Blues, Hooker has set aside his young, white rock 'I\' roll oriented •
band anJ has assembled some of his sidemen friends form his most powerful period in the late 1950's, like Eddie Taylor and Sam Lay. Hooker's performance at Midwest promis<s to be pure (\.nd brooding blu~s. a fitting clos'e to Midwest Blues 1978. 
That's just a small preview of this year's t:1:idwest Blues Festival, though certainly inconsequential to the actual thrill of hearing and experiencing live blues. After everything is said al!d written about blues, it's stiH the music, the feeling, the expression of cultural experience that stands out. And .Midwest Blues has it all! Be there Friday and Satttrday nights ln Stepan Center. It may affect you life. 

~Fr~id=a~yL,~N~ov~e~m~b~e~r~3,~1~9~78~----------t~h~e~o~b~s~e~rv~e~r____-t-

The Irish 
shot 


leers entertain 
....... -nver tonight 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team will take its 1-0-1 record onto the familiar ice of the ACC tonight when it faces off against defending league champion Denver University in its first home series of the WCHA season. The loss of 10 seniors left Irish coach Lefty Smith quite a few gaps to fill but his pre-season hopes of having a well balanced team appear to be coming true 
"Sure. we lost some quality people from last year's team, and yes, we are a young club." said the 10-year coach. "But our performance against Colorado last week was very encouraging. Our offense came up with 14 goals in the series and we got a good performance from everyone on the team. 
''I was especially pleased with the play of our freshmen. We skated with five rookie forwards, two new defense­men and one first year goalie and they all handled the fast style of the WCHA very well." 
Denver coach Marshall Johnston finds himself in very much the same situation. Although the Pioneers lost only six players from last season's first place team, two undergraduates joined the ranks of the pros, two are sidelined with academic problems, and the leading scorer, Perry Scnarr, underwent back surgery over the summer and will not be back for action until at least January. 
"Our team this year can best be 
described as a 'new look' version," . explained the second-year head coach. 
"We recruited nine freshmen and are 
pleased with the prospects for this year. 
The youth of this club will have a big 
effect but we are confident the team will 
grow and improve as the season goes 
on.'' 
In goal the Pioneers return no one and 
will have to rely on two freshmen, Scott 
Robinson and Stuart Birenbaum. Both 
have extensive experience in Canadian 
junior hockey and Birenbaum, who hails 
from St. Louis, Missouri, was goalie for 
the USA team in the World Junior 
Tournament in Montreal. Robinson 
played in both games last week and 
leads the league thus far with a 1.5 GA. 
Defensively Denver returns three 
seniors, Greg Woods, Brian McAlister 
and Cord Gibson. "Woods comes off his 
best season as a defenseman for us. 
Although he did not score as much as his 
two previous years, his total game 
improved tremendously," said John­
ston. 
Also returning to the blue line will be 
sophomores Gary Nedelak and Shawn 
Dineen. Nedelak had 27 points for last 
year's championship squad. Freshmen 
Jim Turner and Barry Hudson should 
also help out on defense. 
Offensively the Pioneers have a mix­
ture of returnees and newcomers that 
Johnston hopes to provide the s<;oring 
punch. Freshmen Glen Anderson, Andy 
Hill and Ken Berry comprise the first 
line, an almost unheard of occurrence in 

After last weekend'.s action, Tom Michalek [right] is leading the WCHA in 
scoring with six points. 
collegiate hockey. 
The second line is led by junior Vince Magnan, who teams with rookies Glenn johnson and Darrell Morrow, who had one assist and one goal last week in Denver's 4-2 and 2-1 sweep of Michigan State. 
Junior Mark Davidson leads the third line with one goal and two assists last week. the native of Manitoba had 67 points in 40 appearances last year. Making the third line the oldest are senior Alex Belcourt and sophomore Brad Purpur. 
Facing the Pioneers tonight, the Irish return seven forwards and four defense­men with WCHA experience. This year's group of freshmen will be counted on heavily at all positions to make the Irish a competitive club. 
The first line of captain Steve Schnei­der, co-captain Greg Meredith and Ted Weltzin produced 10 points at Colorado last weekend and should be one of the best this season in the WCHA. "Steve, Gr€g and Ted are all experienced skaters who we will look to to be our top scoring line and one of the best in the league," said Smith 
The second line of co-captain Tom Michalek, Kevin Humphreys and fresh­man Jeff Logan scored 13 points against the Tigers last week and Michalek assisted on Humphreys' goal with 18 seconds left that sent the Saturday game into overtime. 
The "Fresh Connection" line of Dave Poulin, Bill Rothstein and Jeff Perry make up Notre Dame's third scoring unit. Poulin notched a hat trick in Saturday's 9-9 marathon and finished the weekend with four goals. 
Brian Burke, Kevin Nagurski and 
[continued on page 1l] 

Uneups 
Pioneers 
On Offense 
First line 
Ken Berry, lw (fr) Andy Hill, c (fr) Glen Anderson, rw (fr) 
Second Line 
Vince Magnan, lw (jr) Glenn Johnson, c (fr) Darrell Morrow, rw (fr) 
Third line 
Mark Davidson, lw (jr) Alex Belcourt, c (sr) Brad Purpur, rw (so) 
Other forwards 
Rob Anderson (jr) Perry Stensland (jr) 


Irish 
First line 
Greg Meredith, rw (jr) Ted Weltzin, c (jr) Steve Schneider, lw (sr) 
Second line 
Jeff Logan, rw (fr) Tom Michalek, c (jr) . Kevin Humphreys, lw (so) 
Third Line 
Jeff Perry, rw (fr) Dave Poulin, c (fr) Bill Rothstein, lw (fr) 
Fourth line 
Dan Collard, rw (fr) Brian Burke, c (sr) Kevin Nagurski, lw (sr) 
On the blueline 
First Defense 
Gary Nedelak, (so) 
Brian McAlister, (sr) 
Second Defense 
Cordon Gibson, (sr) 
Shawn Dineen, (so) 
Third Defense 
Barry Hudson, (fr) 
Greg Woods, (sr) 
Seventh Man 
Jim Turner, (fr) 
Goalies 
Scott Robinson, (fr) Stuart Birenbaum, (fr) 
In Goal 

First Defense 
Don Lucia (so) John Friedmann, (jr) 
Second Defense 
Jeff Brownschidle, (so) Scott Cameron or Paul Gagnon, (sos) 
Third Defense 
Jim Brown, (fr) John Schmidt, (fr) 
Goalies 
Dave Laurion, (fr) Greg Rosenthal, (jr) Mark Schores, (fr) 
Coach -Marshall Johnston

Although Scott Cameron may not see action this week due to a separated 
Coach -Lefty Smith
shoulder, the Irish leers hope that you won't miss a bit of the action tonight and tomorrow night 
Asst. Coach -Ric Schafer 
at the ACC. 
-~----------------­
• the obsamtr Friday, November 3, 1978 
The Irish Slapshot 
Second line proves pre-season polls wrong 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
A pre-season poll of Western Collegi­ate Hockey Association coaches tabbed Notre Dame for no better than an eighth-place (out of ten schools) league f(nish. 
The explanation of the poll given in the Grand Forks, (N.D.) Herald indi­cated that with the loss of ten seniors, including both of Notre Dame's only experienced goaltenders, the Irish would be too young to even entertain the slightest notion of finishing in the top half of the WCHA. 
But that didn't stop coach Lefty Smith's icers from dispelling the miscon­ception that youth can't triumph. In fact, some of the youngest of the youth were largely responsible for the success enjoyed by the Notre Dame skaters in College. 
Yes, the 1978-79 Irish, without those ten seniors, are already a month ahead of the 77-78 team, which didn't post a victory until its ninth WCHA contest. 
Part of the reason the Irish brought back from Colorado Springs a 5-4 win and a 9-9 tie is the weekend play of the number two line. Junior center Tom Michalek, flanked on his left by sopho­more Kevin Humphreys and on the right by freshman Jeff Logan, proved that the Irish would have great balance this season. 
The Humphreys-Michalek-Logan line accounted for a total of four goals and nine assists last week, leaving Smith to believe that perhaps pre-season polls and 15 cents might buy one a cup of coffee. 
"They did a remarkable job," lauded 
their season-opening series at Colorado Smith of the efforts of his second line. 
Experienced defense returns for Notre Dame 
by lou Severino Sports Writer 
The 1978-79 edition of the Fighting Irish hockey team will be a very young one, as Coach Lefty Smith lost five of his top scorers, three top defensemen, and both goalies to graduation. However, several players saw a great deal of playing time last year and are being counted on to fill key roles this year. 
One such area is the defense corps, where among the top six players are one junior, three sophomores, and two freshmen. Despite the fact that this unit is very young, Smith is optimistic about his Blueliners. 
"Even though we lost some quality players, we have four very capable players returning, all of whom saw considerable action last year. In addition 
we  recruited two fine freshmen,  so we  
should be every bit  as  good  or  better  
than last year.''  
The  first  defensive  pair  for  Notre  

Dame is John Friedmann and Don Lucia. 
Friedmann, at 6-1, 210, is the heaviest player on the ND roster and knows how to use his weight to clear the crease in front of the Irish net. The St. Paul native missed four weeks of the season because of pneumonia last year, but Smith expects steady play from him this season. 
Friedmann's partner on the backline is sophomore Don Lucia, who has played a regular shift for ND since last year's season opener. Lucia scored three goals and added three assists in 31 games last year, but is known more for his consistent defensive play. The 6-1, 185-pounder who was a 10th round draft choice of the Philadelphia Flyers in last year's draft, is a positional player who can usually be relied upon to be in the right place at the right time. Friedmann and luci should team up well together since they are also roommates off the ice. 
The second defense pairing matches sophomores Jeff Brownschidle and Scott Cameron. Brownschidle, who scored 15 
WCHA Fads and Stats 
Irish center Tom Michalek leads the WCHA in scoring after the first weekend with one goal and five assists for six points ... ND freshman Dave Poulin is one of nine players right behind with five points ... Denver freshman goalie Scott Robinson leads the WCHA so far with a 
1.50 GA in his first two appearances against Michigan State ... Irish netminder Dave Laurion is seventh with a 4.67 average ... Denver and North Dakota are the only two unbeaten-untied teams in the league ... Denver skates with a first line composed entirely of freshmen ... other WCHA action this weekend sees Minnesota at Michigan State, Michigan Tech at Michigan, Colorado at Wiscon­sin and North Dakota at Duluth. 
points last year on six goals and nine 
assists, jumped off to a fine start 
offensively this year with four assists in 
last week's series at Colorado College. 
Brownschidle is an offensive-minded 
Blueliner who plays the point on the 
power play and also carries the puck 
well. Smith, who also coached Jeff's 
brother Jack Brownschidle, now a St. 
Louis Blues defensemen, is very optimis­
tic when speaking about the younger 
Brownsch idle. 

"Jeff established himself as a fine 
WCHA defenseman in his first year and 
we expect even better things this year," 
commented the Irish mentor. 
Scott Cameron will be playing oppo­
site Brownschidle. Cameron is the most 
physical player on the Irish squad. The 
205-pound Toronto native, who was 
drafted by the New York Islanders in the 
10th round last year, is one of the 
hardest hitters in the WCHA and will be 
counted on to see that the Irish are not 
intimidated. Cameron may not play this 
weekend against Denver because of a 
partial shoulder separation he sustained 
against Colorado College. 
The third regular defense pair for 
Notre Dame will be the freshmen unit of 
Jim Brown and John Schmidt. Brown is 
a 6-3, 205-pound product of Rochester, 
NY's Aquinas Institute. Assistant coach 
Ric Schaeffer, who recruited Brown, 
expressed his optimism for the first-year 
player's future. 

"I was very impressed with his quickness and agility, especially for a player his size. He is a smart positional player and passer who knows when to rush the puck and when to stay back defensively," noted the Irish assistant. 
Joining Brown on the blueline is John Schmidt, a three-sport star at Apollo High School of St. Cloud, Minnesota. Schmidt played football and golf in addition to setting all the career scoring records for defensemen in hockey. This 18-:-year-old freshman is an excellent stickhandler and a fine skater, who also impressed the Irish coaches with his play in the pre-season and in last week's action. 
"John is one of the new breed of offensive-minded defensemen," says Smith. "His is a rushing defenseman who controls the puck well and can skate as well as any forward." 
With the addition of these two freshmen it looks as if the Irish defense corps will be solid for the next few years. 
A strong effort from the defense is a necessity, especially in thE' offensive­minded WCHA. Although the League is known as a high scoring loop, it is no coincidence that last year's top four teams were also the four best defensive clubs. 
Smith and his club will be looking for a similar defensive effort as they compete for a playoff spot in the WCHA's Eastern Division. With young, aggressive talent on the blueline, the Irish may succeed in that goal. 
"We really have only one prize veteran, who is with a sophomore in a new position and a freshman. They got us two goals in just eight seconds." 
The eight-second flurry to which the 11th-year Irish coach was referring came in Saturday's game last weekend. With the Irish trailing the Tigers, 9-7, in the last minute of regulation, the Michalek­led line decided it was time to go into action. 
Michalek, whose five assists tied an Irish single-game record and helped rank him the WCHA's leading scorer after the first weekend with six points, teamed with Jeff Brownschidle to set up freshman Dave Poulin for a score at the 
19:34 mark. Then winning the ensuing faceoff, Michalek raced down the left side and fed Humphreys in front of the goal. The sophomore, Green Bay native slapped home his second goal of the evening, tying the score 9-9 only 18 seconds before what looked like an inevitable setback. 
"Coming out of the series with three of four possible points really helps," enthused Humphreys. "Surprisingly, even though we've got a lot of younger people, we're looking much better this year. 
"Tom and I played over half of the year last season, so it's not that we don't have any experience. Jeff has made the adjustment to collegiate hockey real well thus far. He has real good speed. That's the asset of our line-quickness." 

Logan, who played in the same league as Michalek during his high school years, couldn't be happier with the way things have started out in his rookie campaign. 
"I'm very pleased with the events of the past week," admitted the Grosse Point Shores, Mich., native. "You know your line is working okay when you score. Opie (Michalek's nickname) is leading the line really well. He's a smart center." 
Michalek, who often joins Humphreys in penalty-killing situations, can't help but stress the contribution Logan and the other freshmen appear destined to make. 
"They don't look like freshmen," said the junior co-captain. "They look like they've been around for awhile. 
"We should score a lot of goals this year. In fact, we've got three pretty balanced lines, all of which will score. We'll surprise a lot of people. Even though we were picked to tie for eighth place, we'll do much better than that." 
So much for pre-season polls. 


Friday, November 3; l978 the observer 11 
The Irish Slapshot ;;.Brian BegIane 
=================================:=====:=====:=:=:=:===:=======::========:=:======:==========:=====================:==========================================:===================================================================================================================================================================!======================================== 
· Looking ahead / . 
==============================================:======:====::;:;:::=====:======================================:=:=====:=====================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================·Perspective== 
Yes, they are going to be young. Yes, games and they were against Colorado, right once. I wonder if that's just a the team skates out. Not to sound corny, they are going to make mistakes. Yes, but want to guess who is ahead of coincidence too. but this can be a big boost to the team they will lose their share of games. But Minnesota in first place in the WCHA and can make the home arena just as 
eighth place in the WCHA? No way. East? You got it, Notre Dame. Knock on ******** much an advantage for the hockey team wood. as it is for the basketball and football
The Grand Forks Herald in North I, for one, am of the firm belief that teams. Ask anyone who has been at aDakota puts out the yearly preseason Saturday night at the Broadmoor 
cheerleaders belong in front of the crowd hockey in the Dane Memorial Coliseumcoaches poll in the WCHA. Each coach· World Arena one of the wildest games in leading cheers. Sounds logical, doesn't where Wisconsin plays and they will tellvotes where his oppenents will finish and Irish history took place. The outcome it? you how wild their fans are.
this year the general consensus sees was a 9-9 goaltender's nightmare but the Then why do the hockey team's I'm just as sick of you are of hearingMinnesota on top with 88 of a possible 99 way the Irish came back proved Lefty cheerleaders, when needed most to get Notre Dame fans being blamed for thepoints. In fact; Minnesota coach Herb Smith's feelings on his team's "never the crowd going, skate out onto center team not winning, and maybe the hockeyBrooks thinks they'll win it all. "Were­say die" attitude. With 30 seconds to ice and put on a figure skating exhibi­team will make me look like a fool andturned quite a few players and have some play both teams appeared to be just tion? Ask any Irish basketball or football Jose eight in a row at home. But I justgood freshmen and if things go right for going through the rituals of letting the opponent when a Notre Dame crowd is at think the home ice can be made more ofus, I honestly thing we will be tops in the clock run down and Colorado would win its best (or worst, if you are the visitors)? an advantage for the Irish icers and if thenation," optimizes the sixth-year coach. 9-7, right? Wrong. 
I think they'll tell you the second the cheerleaders can do anything about it,
Somewhere down the line comes Notre Tom Michalek found freshman Dave Irish walk out of the tunnel out onto the they'll stay off the ice and in front of the Dame. In order of finish after Minnesota Poulin alone in front and he completed field or the court and those fans start crowd. 
(with points) are: North Dakota (66), his hat trick as the green light lit up (yes, screaming their lungs out for Notre Wisconsin (62), Michigan Tech (61), one of the goal judges' light was green). 
Dame and against whoever it is playing '******** 
Minnesota-Duluth (46), Denver (45), Then Michalek won one of his many 
the Irish. 
Michigan (41), Colorado College and clutch faceoffs of the night and raced Why not at hockey games? Most Assistant coach Ric Schafer is tryingNotre Dame (tied with 19), and Michigan down left wing. There was Kevin times when the hockey team skates out hard to get some kind of fan club or the State (13). Humphreys in front. There went the an almost lackadaisical cheer arises and "lceholes" revived this season. "We pass to Humphreys. There went the
Half of the press guides of the WCHA this is not the crowd's fault. They don't have gotten an offer of financial backing
green light. The clock showed 18
schools echo the same statement: "We know when the team is coming out until from the Blue Line club and I'm willing
seconds as the team poured out onto the
lost a lot through graduation but had a they are there, with cheerleaders leading to try anything like horns or whatever
ice and as the crowd sat in silence
great recruiting year and feel our the way and then skating circles around anyone might suggest," says the former
chewing away on its chorus of "Goodbye
freshmen can step in to do a fine job for center ice. Isn't this defeating thei. Irish skater. "I would really love to see
Irish." I wonder if it is just a coincidence 
us this year." purpose for being there? student and general fan interest pick up
that the goal judge's light for the Irish Why not stay off the ice this year and this year and make our home rink a bigMichigan State, Michigan, Denver, goals in the third period was green? 
coordinate something with the team sot boost to us this year. We have a youngColorado College and Notre Dame all This year's team is young but, as that you can get the crowd yelling and team but they should be the mostwill be relying on freshmen skaters. 
shown in Colorado, they will never say the band's drums leading the cheers of exciting club we have had yet. I reallyBased on this these five teams happen to die and they'll win their share of games. "Co 1-r-i-s-h, b-e-a-t-D-e-n-v-e-r!" hope we can get something going."
comprise the bottom half of the poll. 
And that coaches poll? Of the seven about a minute or so before they come Anyone interested can contact the Now, sure, they've only played two years it has been run, they have been skating out, then have that explosion as hockey office at 8488. 
'Fresh Connection' provides scoring punch 
by Craig Chval 14 goals. Poulin, who centers the line, tual game-winning goal as Notre Dame together as a unit on the second day of Sports Writer leads all Irish scorers with four goals, wasted little time in getting off to a practice early this year, and they have including a hat trick in the 9-9 deadlock. better start than last year's 0-8 opening. remained there ever since. But all three It is the stuff of which legends are Friday night, Poulin scored the even-The three rookies were thrown agree that despite their early success, 
born. they still have a long way to go. 
Three freshmen, studying at one of "A line reaches a peak when you know the most academically demanding where both of your linemates will be at schools in the nation and playing hockey all times," explains Poulin, who played in the best collegiate league in the on a line with the same winger for five United States. Survival would seem to years before coming to Notre Dame. be the foremost thought in each of their Each of the players brings a different minds. talent to the line, which allows the three 
But instead, the trio is a major reason to complement each other's strengths. why Notre Dame's hockey team came Perry, the line's muscle man at 5-9, within one goal of sweeping its opening 180 pounds, is adept at digging the puck two-game WCHA series for the first time out of the corners to set up either Poulin in its history. or Rothstein. On the other wing, 
The three-Dave Poulin, Bill Rothstein Rothstein poses the blazing speed that and Jeff Perry -comprise the third line provides the line with a legitimate for the Irish.-"The Fresh Connection." breakaway threat. But a look at their stats after one In the middle is Poulin, who according weekend of play would seem to say that to Perry is ''a genius on skates." if they're Notre Dame's number three Rothstein is in full agreement, mention­line, numbers one and two must be ing Poulin's smarts and moves as his enroute the NHL already. greatest strenghts. 
While the Irish were earning a 5-4 Notre Dame's unique combination of victory and a 9-9 tie against the Colorado academic excellence and hockey promi­College Tigers, Poulin, Rothstein and nence is the reason each of the three Perry accounted for five of Notre Dame's decided to play for the Irish. 
"All the other schools I considered didn't offer as much as Notre Dame," says Rothstein, a native of Grand Rapids, Minnesota. "When you come out of here, you've got something to 
[continued from page 11] shoulder in Friday's game and may not hands and pads to stop shots," offered show for it.'' freshman Dan Collard are the fourth dress this weekend. Smith. "He played outstandingly in his By the time these three freshmen line. They, along with Humphreys and Freshmen Jim Brown and John · first start Friday and also did well in come out of Notre Dame, they will Michalek, share the fore-checking duties Schmidt form the third defensive unit overtime Saturday night. We are very undoubtedly have a bushel full of goals while the Irish are shorthanded. for the Irish and played outstandingly pleased with him." to show for their efforts. 
"This year's group of freshmen against Colorado. Other blueliners who Greg Rosenthal, a junior from St. forwards is the best we have ever had. will add depth to the Irish defense are Louis, and rookie walk-on Mark Schores All of them have played a quality brand sophomore Paul Gagnon and freshmen will each dress for one game this 
The Irish Slapshot
of hockey and are a tribute to the Greg Kania and John Cox. weekend. "Despite the loss of Len recruiting abilities of my assistant, Ric "On defense we return four experienced Moher and John Peterson in the nets, I Schafer," optimized Smith. "We'll have players and Brown and Schmidt showed feel we will be very capable in goal," 

Editor:
leadership from Schneider, Meredith what they are capable of," said Smith. explained Smith. "None of our goalies and Michalek, and that will be an "I think we will have a defensive corps have any WCHA experience coming into important factor. The 14 goals we scored every bit as good as we have had in the this year, so all it will take is some 

Ray O'Brien 
in Colorado and the comeback we made past. We did give up nine goals time." shows our offens-ive potential." Saturday against Colorado, but that was That's all it appears the Irish need to 
Layout and design:
On defense Notre Dame returns four due to a letdown in the second period. get going. They are a young squad but experienced skaters. Junior John Fried­We should be very strong in this rich with talent and should definitely mann and sophomore Don Lucia com­respect." prove wrong their predicted finish of 

Debbie Dahrling
prise the first unit while second-year In goal freshman Dave Laurion eight by the WCHA coaches' poll. skaters Jeff Brownschidle and Scott appears to be the top man for the Irish Faceoff both nights is scheduled for 

Jofln Calcutt
Cameron are the second pair. Cameron right now. "Dave is short (5-7) but very 7:30 and the game will be broadcast suffered a partial separation of his left quick and relies on the quickness of his around campus on WSND (AM 640). 




~ ~~--~----------~----~~~------------------------...-----~---· 
12 the observer Friday, November 3, 1978 

The Irish Slapshot 
AII-Pangborn line lea_ds offense 
Left to ri~ht: Greg Meredith, Ted Weltzin, and Steve Schneider. 
Laurion leads corps of Irish goaltenders 

by Mike Henry Sports Writer 
Last season, the Fighting Irish hockey team got off to a rocky 0-8 start and was never able to fully recover. The squad was plagued by a succession of bad breaks and injuries and was just able to capture the final berth in the WCHA playoffs. Before the start of this campaign, coach Lefty Smith's icers were tabbed finish a lowly eighth by the coaches of the WCHA. The players have other ideas,. particularly the Pangborn Connection line: senior Steve Schneider on left wing, junior center Ted Weltzin and junior right-winger Greg Meredith. It is upon this first line that much of the goal-scoring burden will fall, and these three have no intentions of shying away from the pressure. 
All three members of the triumvirate from Pangborn Hall started hockey at a young age, but Meredith, who calls Toronto home, was forced to give up the game as a tyke for four years. "I had no sense of balance, and would always end up falling on my head," he chuckles. "This was before helmets had been imporved, so I didn't play again until after my eighth birthday."; 
Schneider, the Babbitt (Minnesota) Rabbit, and Weltzin, out of St. Paul, both have skated continuously since pre-school days. In fact, Schneider had a 2/3 regulation size rink in his back yard, nothing unusual for a kid growing up in the "Land of 10,000 Lakes." 
1"\.
\'-\, 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Schneider and Weltzin played in very competitive high school conferences, with seasons usually running about 25 games. Meredith played for the Toronto Marlboros, a team in the Ontario Major Junior Hockey League, the top outfit in Canada. Amazingly, he logged 110 games a year for two years, and was eagerly sought after by many of the top universities in the East. When he narrowed his choices to Harvard and Notre Dame, Meredith selected "the best combination of a small school, a good program, and the benefit of a full scholarship." Schneider and Weltzin were recruited quite heavily by Lefty Smith, as evidenced by the fact that they escaped the hockey hotbed of Minne­sota. 
As team captain and one of the few 
seniors on the squad, Schneider is 
acutely aware of the added responsibili­
ties this entails. "I hope I can lead by 
example and by encouraging the 
younger players," he states. "Also, the 
freshmen aren't hesitant to come to any 
of the players with problems, and they 
also try to lead in their own way. 
Everyone has a positive attitude and the 
excitement on the bench is excellent." 
"We should have a very exciting team 
this year," Weltzin continues. "Some 
mistakes are to be expected, but 
hopefully we can overcome them with 
aggressive play in the offensive end. We 
have great team speed, and the fans can 
expect continuous end-to-end action and 
a very wide-open style of play." 
And how is the Pangborn Connection going to enhance this spirit o( reckless abandon? "As a line, we must become more aggressive in the attack zone," Meredith notes. "Either Steve or I must commit ourselves to the goal, and we can depend on Ted to get us the puck. Or, he'll do something with it himself. We're going to be very tough to stop this year." 
What does the. future hold for this 
gifted trio of explosive players? For captain Steve Schneider, hopes of going to Europe next year to play, and then using a degree in financ-e to get a good job; for Ted Weltzin,who wants to avoid the rat race ot the NHL, aspirations of getting into a fine medical school; for Greg Meredith, dreams of fulfilling a life-long goal: to play for the Canadian National Team in the 1980 Olympics, a possible career with the team that holds his draft rights, the Atlanta Flames, and eventually matriculating into law school. 
With the grueling WCHA season under way, the Pangborn Connection has dedicated themselves to the combi­nation of academia and hockey which makes the Iife of a student-athlete so , challenging. These three carry them­selves with a cool grace both on and off the ice, helping inspires their teammates to attain such a level. With the leadership and high quality of play that these men can be expected to display, Irish ice hockey fans can look forward to a vibrant, exciting season. 
by Gregory Solman Assistant Sports Editor 
Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith 1s m 
the enviable position of having to choose 
between three very competent goalten­
ders whose abilities are, according to 
him, "closely matched." 
"I'm impressed with the play of all 
three so far," he commented, "Though 
at this point, Dave Laurion has to be 
running number one." 
Laurion is a freshman from Interna­
tional Falls, Minnesota--a city that 
yearly vies with Caribou, Maine, and 
Fargo, North Dakota, for the dubious 
distinction of being the coldest city in the 
nation. But while International Falls is 
frigid this time of year, Laurion, her 
native son, is II hot" in net. He won his 
first start at Colorado College, 5-4, then 
relieved Creg Rosenthal the second 
night when the Irish salvaged a 9-9 thrid 
period tie. And that's a starting 
performance that any freshman breaking 
in would covet. He came out of the 
weekend seventh among WCHA goalies 
witha 4.67 GA. 
"I'm happier with the way I'm 
goaltending now than I was at the 
beginning of the year," remarked Laur­
ion, cited by Smith as being a "competi­
tion" goalie, and not a "practice" one. · "I'm actually adjusting better than I 
thought I would, and I'm very happy 
with that. 
"In Colorado, there was a lot of bad 
defensive hockey both ways," added 
Laurion, who was inserted for Rosenthal 
to shift the team's sagging momemtum. 
"1m glad that we tied. We really should 
have lost.'' 
Laurion believes that the netminding situation will change from game to game, "depending upon how each of us performs in practice and in games." 
II Even if I was the best goalie, I wouldn't want to be playing both Friday and Saturday," remarked Laurion. "It's physically and mentally draining. Oh, it's all right once in awhile, but I wouldn't want to do it every weekend." 
Meanwhile, Mark Schores would do anything to be overplayed. The lanky Grande Prairie, Alberta, native has yet to see regular season action. 
"I feel as if I've been fairly treated," com mented Schores·. "It's tough for the coaches to pick between the three ... but I feel that I' II get my chance eventually." 
Schores Is classified as a "walk-on"--a non-scholarship athlete. Smith charac­terized him as "having quickness,­especially with his legs,-and intelligence in the net." He could, Smith thinks, move into a challenging position. 
"I've been happy with my play in some areas," said Schores, who played Junior Hockey last year in Northern Alberta, "but, I've developed some bad habits that may or m_ay not have been noticeable to the coaches, but I've noticed them.'' 
Schores is not content with the status quo. He's currently on a weight program to build up his size and stamina. He'd like to get a scholarship, and keep progressing toward the number one spot. 
Junior Greg Rosenthal is after a scholarship of another kind--mainly, a Rhodes Scholarshi for wh is 
under consideration. But meanwhile, 
the issue at hand is this season. 
Rosenthal was in the nets the second 
night in Colorado. The first period was 
easy-there were only four shots on goal. 
The second period was a "blitzkrieg." 
Rosenthal described it as a "horror 
show." There were 19 shots on goal-five 
goals, including two that were deflected 
and two that were ''screened.'' 
Not an ideal premier for a hard worker 
that has waited for two years for a 
legitimate chance to start in net. 
"I'm disappointed, but not discou­
raged," remarked Rosenthal, a person­
able athlete, who has shown flashes of 
brilliance, but who, accorping to Smith, 
must ' develop consistency." 
"I'm going to be a lot more agressive 
next game," the junior from St. Louis 
said. II I think that's the key for me...to 
be as agressive as _possible:" . _ 
"He's almost like a treshman m 
experience," admitted Smith, "He's 
only played in a few games in the last 
two years. But Greg is an intelligent 
goaltender with a lot going for him." 
Rosenthal agrees that experience is a 
factor. "In some respects this year is 
like a comeback year for me. It's like 
coming out of retirement. Still, things 
are getting back together. 
"I haven't been happy with my 
performance thus far, but," promises 
Rosenthal, "I know in the next game I'm 
going to start rollin'." 
And if goaltending is as important as Lefty Smith and other hockey pundits would have us believe, then much of the success of Irish hockey will depend upon h0w well Laurion, Schores and Rosenthal 
"get rollin'." 
-

~ .lcr:l:li 
'fhe Way We Were; November 9, 10. 
11:15 p.m. Engineering Starring Barbara Streisand, Redford. A love story that spans 25 years, from pre-World War II to the mid-1950's, with a backdrop of political activism and repression. If you're a Redford freak, don't miss it. and average show. 
Midnight Express; Forum I. Davis, Irene Miraccle. No matter highly Rona Barrett may praise it, Express doesn't cut it. Based on five-year ordeal in Turkish prisons smuggling hash, the story Alan weaves concentrates on the vioence of the prison with the hope that the violence will portray Hayes' suffering and grustration. I'll have a full review of the movie week. A Wedding; Forum II. Starring Carol 

Burnett, Desi Arnaz, Jr., Mia Farrow, and 
countless other "big" names. Robert One on One; November, 3, 4. 7, 9, 11 p.m. Altman disects one of the few remaining Engineering Auditorium. Starring Robie American cultural rites with razor-sharp Benson. Benson cast himself in the lead 
role of the screenplay he co-wrote. It's awit and satire. 
rehash of the familiar underdog proves himself against all odds and gets the girl because of his efforts. An extra dose of schmaltz is thrown in for good measure. $1 admission . 
Sleuth; November 3, 4. 7, 10:30 p.m . Carroll Hall (SMC). Starring Michael Caine and Lawrence Olivier. Suspense drama involving murder, disappearing corpses, and additional mysterious may­hem. $1 admission. 
Distant Thunder; November 5. 3, 6:30, 9 p.m. November 6. 6:30, 9 p.m. Engi­neering Auditorium. The Third World Film Festival continues in November with this film that explores war and hunger in a Bengali village in 1942. Admission free. 
Masculine-Feminine; November 6, 7 p.m. Architecture Auditorium. This highly acclaimed French film, directed by Jean Luc-Godard, examines the go-go genera­tion with, according to the New York World 
You bl.JH~ a' '/Oi.J'IZE. ~T -SlJP 
Jouma} Tribune, "Original wit and con­ft:JSEt> TO COO/I::-,.,..,~ ~IC£ I temporary perceptions. $1 admission. 
China: Century of Revolution; NovemberOose Encounters of the Third Kind; Boiler 7, 6:30, 9 p.m. Engineering Auditorium.
• House Flix. Starring Richard Dreyfuss . 
A Third World Film Festival documentarySteven Speilberg makes a point (no that focuses on China's troubled andcomment on its validity) about extra­turbulent past. Admission free.
terrestial beings. The plot ~n't much, but Dreyfuss and the fantastic special effects almost make this one worth a second viewing. 
The Big Fix; Town & Country II. Starring Animal Hous_e; Town & Country I. Richard Dreyfuss. Most reviews call the Starring John Belushi. Sure, it's a good movie average, but Dreyfuss makes it movie, but I'm tired of toga parties, jello above average. slurpers, and the rest. When will it leave? 
• 


This week--November 7:30 p.m. Stepan Center. November 3, 4, Jump'n the Saddle Band, a country 3--Martin, Bogan, and the Armstrongs; rock band; November 6, Clean Gene and Jimmy Rogers, Left-Handed Frank, and the Rhythm and Blues Express; November Good-Rockin' Charles; Albert Collins. 7, Airborne, a rock and roll band; November 4--Dr. Ross (The Harmonica November 8, the Ralls City Ramblers; Bo~s); Sonny Rhodes; •John Lee Hooker. November 9, Captain Beefheart and the
•

The best in blues at any price, but for you Magic Band, , Zappa's former cohort 
an ND/SMC festival pass •goes for $6. invades South Bend with his new band, 
Single night tickets are $4 for Friday and $5 cover $4.50 in advance, $5 at the door. 
on Saturday. Bring a blanket, a pillow, and 
a friend. 
You're A Good Man, Charlie Brown;Robert Glasgow, organist; November 5, 8 November 9, 10, 11, 12. Washington Hall.
p.m. Sacred Heart Church. 
The ND-SMC Theater continues the 78-79 season with the Peanuts gang invading Washington Hall for three performances
Raymond Herbert, pianist; November 8, 
only.

8:15p.m. Library Auditorium and Lounge. 

Friday, November 3, 1978 

the observer 13 


John Denver; November 3, 8 p.m. ACC. Denver brings stage in the round and his Rocky Mountain High back to South Bend, plus an ample supply of music. Tickets are $10, $7.50 and $5, so if you don't go to the Blues Festival or a movie, you might want to drop by. 
Steve Martin; November 9, 8 p.m. ACC. Although his prices may be outlandish, his humor can only rageous. For excellent folk music by take in the show. 

Hockey; Denver at ND; November 3, 4; 
7:30 p.m. ACC. 

Basketball; Russian Nationals at ND, November 10; 8 p.m. ACC. 
• 

Soccer; Tennessee at ND, November 10, 8 
p.m. Cartier Field.. 
• 
• 



-~--·-·~ ~-~~~----------_..__..._........._~__..__..~-------------­
14 the observer Friday, November 3, 1978 
~ 
r i 
~ 
[, 






Six stories, oneplot: 


TheRomance ofOur isTechnology. 

Rendezvous 
The Salesman's on a single chip of silicon, the more Detection Equipment (ASDE). It's In Spain. Dream. the average AEG cost goes down. standard equipment at L.A. Inter­You're a software You're a Tl sales In short, you make things cheaper national and at the airport in 
-t 
applications engineer. You've by making them more complicated. Geneva, Switzerland. Other airports specialist. got what is prob­Your work made it possible for a with smog and snow problems are When you picked ably one of the Tl consumer product that sold three expected to have it soon. this career, you most irresistible years ago for about $70 to sell You're glad you're in technology. I never dreamed that one day you'd selling messages in the history of today for $14.95. rendezvous in Barcelona, Spain salesmanship. Your future looks wonderfully 
Oil Sleuths 1 with two Navy destroyers. It goes like this: "Hold this Tl-59 complicated. You're at 30,000 AEGs International. But when your company is Texas Scientific Calculator in your hand. per chip now and 100,000 is in sight. You're a geo­
j Instruments and one of your cus­Now, let's compare it to the most You're glad you got into physicist. A good tomers is the U. S. Sixth Fleet, you popular computer of the 1950s­technology. one. You could be learn to expect the unexpected. the IBM 650. 
with any of the big 
• ! The destroyers are equipped with "The 650 weighed almost thr~e Outsmarting oil companies. But 
' 
Tl computers and they need new tons, required five to 10 tons of air Smog. you wanted to get with a company software fast. You come aboard and conditioning and 45 square feet of You've always whose specialty is the same as sail with the Fleet until your job is floor space. And it cost $200,000 designed air­yours. Exploration. completed. in 1955 money. borne radars for That's why you're at Tl, in 
Not a bad assignment for a soft­"Now look at the Tl-59 Calculator Tl customers. Geophysical Service. ware specialist named Susie. You're you're holding in the palm of your Now, all of a Tl explorer ships, Tl photo­glad you got into technology. hand. It has a primary memory sudden you know your next radar geologic aircraft and Tl truck-and 
capacity more than double that of design is going to stay at the airport. tractor-mounted vibrator systems The Incredible the 650. It performs its principal On the ground. are working all over the world. Talking Chip. functions five to 10 times faster. It's on the ground that traffic They're finding oil. And they're 

You're an inte­And it retails for under $300." controllers at Los Angeles Inter­identifying areas where no oil grated circuit With a story like this, the hardest national Airport have a problem. exists, thereby saving huge losses designer at Tl. part of your job is holding onto your They can "see" incoming and out­in drilling costs. . 
_,
You've helped sample. You're glad you got into going airplanes on their radar just Also, Tl's worldwide computer ..­find a way to make technology. fine, so long as the airplanes are in network and its Advanced Scientific a chip talk, something no integrated the air. Computer is making 3-D recording 
~ I 
• I circuit has ever done before. 
The Joy Of But when the airplanes are on the and processing possible. This ex­' I First application: an electronic Complication. ground-touching down, taking off, clusive exploration technique is the 
I 
aid that helps children learn to spell. You're in semi­taxiing, parking-they are some­only practical way to unscramble ~ The world's first talking textbook. conductor design times impossible to see and control. "no-record" areas on land and sea. And that's just the beginning. at Tl. You love it Ground smog obscures them. You're a happy sleuth. You're in The talking chip's potential is mind­when people at You believe you have an answer on the biggest hunt in history. And bending. You're glad you got into parties ask you to the smog problem. You dig out your team is out in front. technology. what you do. You say, "I make the plans for an airborne ground­You're glad you got into things complicated." (Pause.) mapping radar you helped design. technology. "In fact, I got promoted recently for You adapt the design so the L.A. creating some major complications." controllers can use it to see through What you mean (but seldom smog. It works beautifully. explain) is this: the more active Today your smog-piercing radar element groups (AEGs) you can put is widely known as Airport Surface 

' .
Ifyou're not intechnology yet, think it over. 
.-·:;.. 
;r: 
~~: 
•.i 
.~

Ifyou are in technology, talk toTexas Instruments. 
.:.:::. 
Campus Intervie\Vs See what TI is doing in: 
• 
Microcomputers and microprocessors • Air traffic control radar and Discrete 

• 
Semiconductor memories Address Beacon Systems 


Nov.lO, 15-16 
• 
Linear semiconductor devices • Microwave landing systems 

• 
Microelectronic digital watches • Radar and infrared systems 

• Guidance and controls for tactical

• 
Calculators 

missiles

• 
Minicomputers: hardware, software and systems featuring software • Worldwide geophysical services 


. Texas Send for the 34-page picture ·story compatibility with microprocessors • Clad metals for automotive trim, h~'>..!!~~l!~£~ of Tl people and places. • Distributed computing systems thermostats, and electrical contacts 
• 
Electronic data terminals • Interconnection products for elec-· tronic telephone switching systems 

• 
Programmable control systems 

• Temperature-sensitive controls for 

• 
Data exchange systems 


automobiles and appliances 
Write: George Berryman, Texas Instruments • Advanced Scientific Computers 
• Keyboards for calculators and for 
Corporate Staffing, P. 0. Box 225474, • Digital seismic data acquisition many other products 
M.S. 67, Dept. CG, Dallas, Texas 75265 systems 




l TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
I 
l l INCORPORATED An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
l 
) 


Tom Hamel [left], Person­
nel Director for Ombuds­man, accepted The john Rooney Award for OBUD. The award, presented by Paul Callahan [right] was in recognition for OBUD's work at last year's An Tostal carnival. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 


WSND plans not to carry hockey 
by Pat Toomey A decision not to broadcast ice hockey games on WSND-FM this season was made entirely by the station's staff, Station Manager Kate Bernard said yesterday. Hockey will be not carried be­cause WSND-FM is a fine arts station, Bernard said, and hockey is not compatible with the rest of the station's programming. Bernard added that the university administration had strongly op­posed the station's carrying hockey, saying that the relationship between the University and WSND would be damaged if the station carried the games. The admini­stration owns the station's license and funds the station. University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh said last night that although the University told the station it would be a mistake to carry hockey, the decision not to broadcast the games was made entirely by the staff at WSND. Hesburgb commented that he was very pleased the station was not airing the games, as it is contrary to the tint! arts character of the station. Vice-President for Student Affairs 
• Fr. John Van Wolvlear commented that he was surprised and happy that the station was not carrying hockey. Van W olvlear said there was an "ethical dimension" in­volved, as the station has a responsibility to its listeners in the South Bend community. 
WSND Sports Director Paul Stauder said he had made arrange­ments for carrying 14 away games on the station and had already lined up sponsors. 
Stauder said he hoped to broad­cast away games in an effort to promote the ND hockey program, as WSND-FM is the most powerful station that would carry hockey. WNDU-AM, which is less power­ful, will catty the games, according to Stauder. 
This year marks the second time that a controversy has arisen between WSND and the admini­stration on the hockey issue. 
CILA to hold general meeting 
CILA will hold a general meeting o~ Sunday, at 6:45 p.m. in the Ltbrary Lounge. Topics to be ~iscussed include summer pro­Jects, for which initial interests will be determined. All members are encouraged to attend. 

Coalition to sponsor infant formula forum 
by Betsy Spinelli 
"Third World Bottle Babies: Medical Advance or Corporate Windfall," a forum concerning the complex controversy over infant formulas, will be held Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m. in Carroll Hall, at Saint Mary's. 
Scheduled speakers include Sr. Marilyn Uline, a coordinator from the Infant Formula Action Coalition 
(INFACT), and Penny Van Esterik assistant professor of anthropology at Notre Dame. Also speaking will be a representative from the Nestle Corporation, which markets a brand of infant formula. The Nestle Corporation that has been the target of a boycott which began in the United States in the summer of 1977. 
Sponsored by the ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition, the pro­gram is intended to permit interest­ed people to pose questions to a panel of speakers and discuss the issue in small groups. 
The infant formula controversy which has been a subject of debate for more than a decade, involves the right of formula manufacturers to promote their product in nations where breast feeding is the norm. 
Manufacturers maintain that 
they are filling a need while their 
opponents feel that the introduc­
tion of bottle-feeding is endanger­
ing the welfare of the welfare of 
infants. 
American, Australian and Euro­pean companies have allegedly engaged in "hard-sell" promotion­al activities in Third World coun­tries to sell their formula products. Much of the controversy centers around the lack of proper facilities needed to produce a safe and nourishing formula in these coun­tries. 
Activist groups such as INFACT point out that without such facili­ties as refrigeration, sanitary wat­er, and sterilization, the formulas pose a serious threat of infection and disease. 
Formula companies arg\].e that their products are actualty safer than traditional mixtures such as flour and water or starch gruel. 
The formula controversy was the subject of hearings in the Senate last spring. 
A film produced by the Nestle Corporation and a documentary entitled "Into the Mouths of Ba­bies," which was aired on CBS last summer, will be shown during the course of the program. 
T 
wo years ago, Vice-President for 
Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny ential Learning, said, "It is impor-council activities of present Notre 
thr t d t fi th t t. • tant that students have a chance to
ea ene o tre e s a tons s Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen. manager and cut off the station's be exposed to what is going on The conference is open to any funds when they announced plans outside of campus. A film is a good Notre Dame of Saint Mary's stu­to carry hockey. Paczensy said that way to bring people to an aware-dent who served as a leader while 
St.nce th Unt' 't th ness of a situation that otherwise
e verst Y pays e In high school. 
station's costs, they had the right r-----------------------------. 
to control the station's program­ming. 
Team captains must meet 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all captains of co-ree volleyball teams Monday at 4:30 
p.m. in the ACC auditorium. Tournament play starts Tuesday and all captains must come to the meeting and indicate if they want to participate. 


WINES 

L-*Usco 
roggiono ~ 

--.:: -= ----­
• 
Frmy, N~ber 3, 1978 the nhseryw 

Third World Film Festival to present ending series 
by Marguet Burke they would be ignorant of." Distant Thunder, a film about 
The Third World Film Festival's life in a remote Bengali village final series of presentations on during the Second World War, will developing countries begins Sun-be shown Sunday, at 3, 6:30 and 9 day. The festival is sponsored by p.m. Student Government and the Cen-Two documentary presentations ter for Experiential Learning. on China will be shown on both 
The festival is a precursor to Tuesday and Wednesday nights. numerous activities planned by China: Century of Revolution, a student government for the spring three-part history of China since semester, including hall projects, 1800, narrated by Theodore H. panel discussions, masses and a White, will be shown at 6:30 and seminar. 9:15p.m. 
Kathy Rosenthal, Student The Barefoot Doctors of Rural Government's chairman for the China, a documentary examining Third World Awareness Project, China's efforts to provide adequate , said, ''The purpose of the film hellth services for its agrarian festival is to educate students ~ulation of over 600,000,000 about Third world problems." people, will b shown at 8:05 and 
She said the responses and 10:50 p.m. on Tuesday and Wed­turnout for the African and Latin nesday. American presentations were good, All films will be shown at the ''probably because of the quality of Engineering Auditorium. Admis­the films shown." sion is free. 
In addition to viewing the films, Conr6erence 
1

• interested students may take part I in discussions of issues dealt with to discuss 
in the film and problems facing Third World countries. leadership Rosenthal stated the upcoming The Catholic Association of documentaries on China are "par-Student Councils will hold a stu­
ticularly important because I think 
there are misconceptions in Ameri-dent leadership conference at the ca and on campus about Chinese Center for Continuing Education culture." tomorrow. 
Mary Hawley, student staff The purpose of the conference, member at the Center for Experi-which will run all day, is to obtain
information concerning student 
LEAF RAKERS and WINDOW PAINTERS needed for odd jobs -in South Bend area. Small financial rewards offered. CHILDREN in SB NEED YOU to tutor English grammar, reading, elem. math , Algebra. Can you spare an hour a week? Call Volunteer Services, 7308. 
ffi&R Aatl reg Spu•ant• J8.58 
Pm 


.' 
i 
i 
I 
< 
t 
' 
t . 
' \ -16 the observer Friday, November 3, 1978 
~ 
. 
' 
' 

: 

I ' 
i( ' 
j: 
( 
(
< ( 
~ ~ 
~ ; 
b { ~ ~ ' 
l)
! 
~ 
I 
r 
~ 
I 
<i 
~ ' 
I < t ' 
I I 
j ; 
,.,. 
( f. 
I < 
' l
l \ 
J I 
i1 
j : 
I I I I 
t I 
I I 
1 I 
1 ( 
l ~ 
. l 
' 
I, '· j lj 
)f 
j 


by Mary Ann Wissel tival at Notre Dame, consists of
u 
E 
games and events modeled after the actual festival celebrated in Staff Reporter 
Graduate School 
Ireland. The festival is scheduled
of Business Administration 
The An Tos.tal Committee, already for next April 26-29. engaging in work for the next The Chairman's Award, origi­spring's festival, awarded the 1978 nated in 1977, is given to the group Chairman's Award to the Ombuds­of organization which does some­
A representative of the Graduate School of 
man yesterday. thing special for An Tostal, accord­
Business Administration will be on campus 
Paul Callahan, 1979 An Tostal ing to Callahan. ''The 1978 winner 
Monday, November 13, to discuss the Duke 
chairman, congratulated the Om­
was selected by last year's chair­budsman on their "~xcellent job of
MBA Program. Interested students may obtain 
man, John Rooney, but until now, manning the ticket booths at the 
the award was not ready for
further information by contacting the Placement 
carnival and for running the An presentation,'' Callahan explained. 
Bureau. 
Tostal Hotline at the Obud office An Tostal's publicity chairman,
last year.'' 
Cathi Barker noted that An TostalAn Tostal, the annual Irish fes­
is entering its second decade this year. "We plan to do a lot with this theme and we also want to remind 
everyone that An Tostal is a Gaelic (Irish) festival. Everything (pos­ters, T-shirts, and the logo) will 
If l'()tJ~rt? ~()t ~~clcll 
t() St()() ()c1rt,l11"• ••• It~§ lilt? ~ctzz 
center around our Irish theme," Barker said. Sponsored by the Hall Presidents Council (HPC), An Tostal received
frlcletll Srn()~l J()(? 

most of its $15,000 from the Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's student governments. HPC chairman Chuck DelGrande 
1cl -111 

1\t?\'111 (2ul~lt?l 

explained that he is pushing for more interest in the Jim Brogan
(CJaJ() -111) 
Award. This award is given to the 

AnTostal bestows award onObud 
II 
.. ' 
\ 
\ 
' 

Stroh Light. The light beer speciallY brewed lor 
l
the real beer taste people are looking lor. 
I I 
Stroh ;Light isn't just another 
light ~eer. It's a new light beer 
with a taste that means busi­
ness.-Stroh Light is brewed to 
give the real beer taste reg dar 
and light beer drinkers are 
looking for. And they won't 
have far to look because we're 
giving our unique light beer a 
lot of advertising weight. 

THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT. MICHIGAN 01978 
Stroh lillhl-a new wav to profit lrom Stroh's two hundred vears ol experience. 
hall or organization which best  
captures the spirit of An Tostal, Del  
Grande, "It is important to empha­ 
size this award because competi­ 
tion for it can increase hall partici­ 
pation during the week of An  
Tostal."  
Callahan said that some changes  
will be made in this year's An  
Tostal program.  
"For example, we will have  
another carnival, but with more  
rides and a decreased number of  
game booths, which incidentally,  
will not be run by the halls this  
year. Instead, the carnival people  
will run them," Callahan noted.  
New events for 1979 An Tostal  
include a Frisbee demonstration by Jens and Irwin Velasquez, the  I •  
two-time world champion frisbee, a  
tentatively planned skydiving exhi­ 
bition, and a Beer Garden (21-year­ 
olds only) at the SMC Dining Hall.  
Events such as the Irish Pub at  ~,  
.Senior Bar, the women's flag  r  
football game, the chariot races,  t  
and the Bookstore Basketball Tour­ 
nament return to An Tostal this  
year.  
Susan Glockner, the Thursday  
Day Chairman, who is in charge of  
all the events that will take place on  f  
that day, said, "Right now we are  
still in the planning stages--we are  
developing new ideas and trying to  
better old ones."  
Laurie McNulty, An Tostal's  
Keeper of the Zoo (Chief of Staff),  
will focus her energies on the areas  
of organization and communication  
for this year's. festival.  
"We all have one main goal: to  
have as many activities as possible  
so as to get as many people  
involved as possible," McNulty  
said.  
Callahan summed up An Tostal by  
saying that it is the social event of  
the year. It's a cross between a  
cure for spring fever and a last fling  
before finals."  
Sisters host  
retreat  
at SMC  
A combination retreat-orientation  
will be held this weekend and the  
weekend of Nov. 17-19 at St.  
Mary's.  
The program is being sponsored  
by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.  
Meals, liturgies, a tour of the  
campus convent and an evening at  
the postulate will be included in the  
weekend's activities, which are  
free of charge.  
An opportunity will also be pro­ 
vided for guests to meet with  
sisters, especially younger mem­ 
bers of the order, and to ask them  
questions.  
For more information, call Sister  
Miriam Patrick at 4022 or any sister  
at St. Mary's.  
INTERNATIONAL  
CAREER?  


A representative will be on the campus WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 8, 1978 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of 
INURNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at Placement Office Main Bldg. 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 










collegiate crossword 
45 Ending for lumin 12 Rags
ACROSS 
46 Sphere 13 Montana city 1 Jack-47 Be slow in leaving 14 Water performers 6 Paul and Leo, e.g. 48 Humor 19 Picnic problem 
11 Fanleaf palm 49 African river 22 Washington name 13 Crazy 52 Disencumber 24 Type of Toyota 15 Shaded walk 53 Teach 26 Sulks 16 Howl 55 Watch brand 27 River to the North 17 Command to a dog 57 Obtains Sea 18 Spins 58 Wrench 30 Mr. Grauman 20 "Mama -" 59 Passover meal 32 Command (abbr.)21 Lines of stitching 60 Punches 34 Fro 1i cs 23 Dynamite 35 Moreover 24 Certain fuel 36 Class format
DOWN
25 Aware of 37 David's instrument 26 -maid 1 Standing out from 38 Piece of jewelry 28 Table scraps the rest 39 Historic places29 Certain muscles 2 Appease 40 Cut 31 Secretariat, for 3 Basketball need 42 Residences 
one 4 Imitators 44 American painter33 Does the conga 5 Fuss 47 Of a musical sound 34 Type of plane 6 Wan 49 Wash 35 Oar part 7 Responsibility 50 Roman road 37 Manages 8 "-Joey" 51 Louis Armstrong's40 Command to a dog 9 Inflames with love nickname 41 Ignominy 10 Feed fully 54 "El -" 43 Oz actor 11 Ita1i Jn pC'et 56 African antelope 
Chamber Singers perform first concert at O'Laughlin 
A new singing group at Saint conductor of the group, and Ann Mary's, The Chamber Singers wlll Addis, pianist, is accompanist. present its first home concert on The Collegiate Choir will sing the Sunday at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Kyrie, Sanctus and Agnus Dei from Auditorium. Andrea Gabrieli' s ''Missa Brevis,'' 
The Chamber Singers will be and songs by Samuel Barber and joined by the Saint Mary's-Notre Vincent Perschetti. Pat Andrews, a Dame Collegiate Choir and the freshman from Mishawaka, and Women's Choir for the College's Ann Armstrong, a sophomore from annual Fall Choral Concert featur­Elkhart, will be the piano accom­
.panists .
ing selections ranging from Ren­aissance to contemporary music. The Women's Choir, accompan­The public is cordially invited to ied by Katy Elsey and Sarah attend. Lanman, will sing Psalm 150 and 
The Chamber Singers replace Ave Maria by Zoltan Kodaly; the SMC Madrigal Singers. They Tantum Ergo and Ave Verum by presented the first concert of the Gabriel Faure; and the Fall section Merrillville (Indiana) Entetainment of Ralph Vaughan William's "Folk­Series during October and will songs of the Four Seasons." perform at the Madrigal Dinners at Raymond Strague, instructor of Saint Mary's in December They music, is the conductor for all the will also make a concert tour through the Southwest in the spring. 
For the concert on Sunday they have prepared songs by Ludovico Viadana, Tomas Luis de Victoria, Alessandro Scarlatti and Orlando de Lass. Of particular note will be the performance of J.S. Bach's motet, "Lobet den Herrn, aile Heiden." 
Karen Pilarksi, a senior music major from Niles, is · assistant 

Answers .. 

Friday, November 3, 1978 

the observer 17 Handicapped to attend football game 
byMfkeBrady The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retarded is provid­ing the opportunity for 150 to 200 mentally handicapped children and adults to attend next week's Tenn­
esee-Notre Dame football game. 
Handicapped persons from nurs­ing homes in the South Bend-Mish­awaka area and from the Northern Indiana State Children's Hospital will participate in the annual event. Tickets for the game are provid­
ed by the ND-SMC student body. 

Students willing to give up their tickets can do so next week at collection points that will be set up in the dining halls and dormitories. According to Mike Wolohan, Notre Dame Co-chairman of the Council for the Retarded, the event is also being sponsored by the Big Brothers and Big Sisters, who plan to take SO children to the game, and a group from Badin Hall who plan to take 40 underprivcleged Chicago youths. Wolohan added that these groups will also need student 
tickets. 






1 E Z 
ARKET 
Open, 7 days a week 7am-10pm 
corner of Auten Road, 1 mile south of State Une 

BEER SPECIALS 
HAMMS 2.75 12 pac 
STROH'S LIGHT 3.59 12 pac 
UTE 3.39 12 pac 
2.89 12 pac 
5.69 a case 

ALSO ALL YOUR FAVORITE WINES 


QUALITY DISCOUNTS on beer wine and soda to students 
CHECKS CASHED FOR NOTRE DAME & ST. MARv·s STUDENTS 
EXTRA MIDNITE SHOWS FRIDAY &: SATURDAY 1:30-3:40-5:45-7:50-10-12:00 
Richard 
Dreyfuss.. 
Moses Wine Private Detective • 
the



B.gFtx 
sneak preview at 8 tonite ''Magic'' 


r----~-~ 
1 : 
t ' 
Friday, November 3, 1978
i~ .;I '18 the observer 

~ ' 

: t 
;/f 
j 
The phone kept ringing. The coaches came visiting. The invitations for 
campus visits were numerous. The scholarship offers were many. 
From the Ivy League to the Pac-10, among the SEC and the 
Independents, they wanted him to be their future quarterback. 
But the answer was always a resounding, "no thanks." 
For, you see, Lou Pagley had always wanted to play football at Notre 
Dame. 
Pagley is one of the twenty-odd non-scholarship athletes (walk-ons) who 
play for the love of football, and especially in Pagley's case for the love of 
Notre Dame. 
Rarely does a ·walk-on dress for home games. Even fewer see a minute 
of varsity action. They are known by many names; the prep team, the 
clean-up crew, the hamburger squad or even as "extra bodies." But 
whatever they are called, the walk-ons are integral to the success of any 
football program. 
These dedicated athletes attend practice each day only in hope for that 
ultimate chance to be noticed. Pagley is one of those who earned his 
chance and capitalized on it. 
Pagley had been recruited by Notre Dame in his final year at Christopher Columbus High School in Miami, Florida. But Lou was a borderline scholarship case due to an ankle injury incurred on the last day of spring football in his junior year. Although he lost all of his speed and scrambling abilities, he gained all-city and all-county recognition in his senior campaign, thus attracting the raves of college coaches across the country. 
After Pagley visited Notre Dame, he refused to accept a visit offer from 
any other interested university. Lou wanted to prove to Head Coach Dan 
Devine that competing on the Irish gridiron was his first and only choice. 
"I had always desired to play for Notre Dame," beams the 6-3, 190 pounder. "I didn't visit anywhere else because I wanted to show Notre Dame that I truly had to play for them. It may seem stupid, but I just didn't want to look back some day and say that I had a chance to play for Notre Dame and I blew it." 
Pagley finally did arrive at Notre Dame in the fall of 1976. It was not as a scholarship athlete though, but as a walk-on freshman. 
It was a big sacrifice for Pagley to attend Notre Dame, as it is for so many of the students on this ivy-green covered campus. Pagley is a member of a family of seven and is nearly $10,000 in debt as a result of his decision to forfeit the full scholarship offers of other schools for a chance to don the green and gold. 
Pagley's unquenchable thirst for Notre Dame can be traced to his younger days in Florida. His grandfather played under Rockne, and his father (a former end for U. of Miami) and mother are avid Notre Dame fans. 
"Iwasbroughtup on Notre Dame," confesses Pagley. "If Notre Dame always there inside of you." . 
"But being a walk-on for Notre Dame was only the beginning of Pagley's quest. He wanted to play, and for a walk-on, that is a long and tedious task. 
''The toughest thing is to get noticed so you can then get a chance to play," noted Pagley. "The coaches really have it tough because they have to worry about the team preparation for each game, besides individual player personnel. And there is so much talent here, it is phenomenal." 
So, since his freshman year, Pagley strove to be noticed, to be given a chance. It took two long years, but this fall in the last scrimmage before the inception of the 1978 season, he received his opportunity. And according to the junior American Studies major, it is the highlight of his career here at Notre Dame. 
''It was the final scrimmage before the Missouri game and I got the nod to start at quarterback for the second team," recalls Pagley. "I knew it was my chance, and I tried as hard as I could to do the job. It may get you killed, but it could give you a shot to play." 
Pagley played his heart out by either lowering his head for that extra yard or scanning for the open receiver, and he almost did get killed in the process by the massive Irish front four. Nevertheless, he led the prep team to a remarkable offensive display during which they scored several six-pointers against the formidable Notre Dame defense. The next Saturday, Lou was presented the Irish Green and has dressed for every game since. 
But Pagley is no longer a quarterback. He was switched to the then depleted receiver ranks as a flanker. He responded with a 16 yard reception in the Air Force game. 
"I didn't mind switching from quarterback to flanker, because I wanted to do anything to play," says Pagley. "But quarterback is my first love, and I feel I can play that position if given the chance. "I'll still do anything to contribute to the team, though.' 
Pagley had made the initial transition from the backfield to the receiver corps. But according to Coach Devine and unknown to Pagley, Lou's football status will change in another way in the near future. 
"He's Number 8 in your program, but Lou Pagley is Number 1 in my heart," says Devine. "Therefore, I am going to give him one of our 25 scholarships for the 1979 spring semester or as soon as legally possible. To the best of my knowledge, I don't think this has ever been done before." 
Clearly, Devine is very glad that Pagley made his decision to play for the Irish. So is Notre Dame. 
lost, m wno1e week would be ruined. You outgrow it to an extent,_ but it is---------------. 
Best deal goin' on finest quality 

*on our best Notre Dame-watermarked 25% rag content bond *same day or 1-day service if you type it, clean and black (not grey) on white non-corrasable bond. *a service of your Student Union and aJfiX> c:p\rf~ :Prn::m~~ 
Basement, LaFortune. Open 1-5, 5 days. Call 7047. 

TO WITNESS THE PERFECT CRIME YOU MUST COME ON TIME 
PALO~ PICTURES INTI::.RNATIONAL ~s 
LAURENCE OLIVIER 


MICHAEL CAINE 

anJOSEPH L.MANKIEWICZFilmot 
a....donrhcpiay~ANTHONY 51-tAfTE.H f:.w<u,.., Pmduco.-EDGAR J. o,_,l!d~ JOS£PH L MAN PAt~ BY DEWXE ® J &1ed on the~ Award ~nnq Broadwg Pl!y I 
[PG! ~~~..:!:I 
SLEUTH will be shown Nov. 3 & Nov. 4 7:00pm and 10:30 pm Carroll Hall-SMC Admission $1.00 sponsored by Social Commission 
ND vs. Navy 
[continued from page 20] 
John Hankerd, wfto is listed &s questionable with a sprained neck. If Hankerd is unable to play, his place will be taken by Freshman Joe Gramke, who made 9 tackles in second-half action against Miami. 
The Irish may be without the sevices of linebacker Bobby Leo­pold who sprained an ank1e last week. His spot will be taken by Mike Whitington who will join Bob Golic and Steve Heimkreiter. The secondary will include cornerbacks Tom Gibbons and Dave Waymer and safeties Joe Res tic and Jim Browner. The kicking game will have Restic handling the punting chores with Chuck Male doing the placekicking. Male booted two field goals last week including a 48 yarder. 
So the stage is set for an outstanding matchup between the 11th-ranked Midshipmen and the 15th-ranked Fighting Irish. Unlike past years there is no chance that the Irish will be underestimating Navy. According to Head Coach Dan Devine, ''this is the best Navy team since the days of Roger Staubach." Hopefully for the Irish, Leszczynski will not prove to be another Staubach and the Irish will keep doing what's come naturally for the last 14 years--beating Navy. 
%Observer 

Sports 



Baseball teams pick free agents 
• Older players headline draft 
Nt;W YORK [AP] • After two bull markets, the bears will be out i:.1 full force Friday in basebaiJ's third annual free-agent re-entry draft. 
Not one star player in his prime will be among the 42 free agents who hope competitive bidding will make them instant millionaires. Cincinnati's Pete Rose, who will be 37 next season, is the most glamorous name available. 
Other players expected to attract the greatest attention are pitchers Tommy John, Jim Barr, Larry Gura, Luis Tiant, Mike Marshall and Elias Sosa; infielders Darrell Evans and Lee Lacy and outfielder Billy North. 
These eligibles are a far cry from the available talent of the past two seasons, when a total of 23 players 
'were awarded contracts of $1 mi11ion or more. In 1976, the new millionaires included stars like Reggie Jackson, Joe Rudi, Don Gullett, Gary Matthews, Ro11ie Fingers and Bobby Grich. One year later, the market was bullish again with Richie Zisk, Larry Hisle, Lyman Bostock, Rich Gossage and Mike Torrez gaining instant riches. 
Hisle, who rewarded Milwaukee's financial backing with a power­packed season in 1978, tops the free-agent . rolls with a six-year contract worth $3.155 million. Zisk of Texas, another big run-producer this past season, signed a 10-year contract worth $2.95 million. 
Jackson, who has delivered the New York Yankees the world championship the last two seasons, punches in next with a five-year 
I 
I NOTICES 
I 
I 
I WHERE ARE YOU GUYS? CampusPress guarantees lowest prices on cam­pus. Fast service, easy location below defunct rider board in LaFortune base­ment. Posters, Resumes, Tickets, etc. Call 7074; open 1-5, 5 days.
I You think; therefore a place like Pand-I ora's must exist. Used academic paper­
backs for aiL Happy Hours 1/2 price sale-every Friday 3-6. Behind NOI apartments. 233-2342. 
1Planning a wedding or dance? Music for I that special occasion. The Dennis Bamber Quartet. 272-8266 
I 
I Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate, reasonable. Close to campus. Phone 272-7866 
I 
Gay Students of Notre Dame -Gay Information Call 8870. Friday November 310:00-12:00 p.m. Sat~rday November 4I 10:()()-12:00 p.m. or wnte P. 0. Box 206. 
I 
I 
I WANT TO GO TO CHICAGO SATUR1 DAY? Bus trip sponsored by Lyons Hall: this Saturday, November 4. Tickets $8.50, and information, call Sherry 7962. 
I 
Attention Ombudsman-T-shirts are in!! Pick them up in the office today. 
I 
I HOLY CROSS • MORRISSEY HAY RIDE!!! November 4, $3, Everyone Welcomed. 
I 
I Attention all Logan Volunteers and interested students! Logan Center's first 
I ~~~~~~ fr~~~~~m~~~.~~~nt~~se f[~a,rn 
1 
Cafeteria. Good music, dancing, and refreshments will insure a good time for 
I 
all. So come, bring a hat, and help the mentally handicapped enjoy the dance! Questions Call Mike 1371 or Sue 41-4832. 
I Saturday Rec is back! This saturday from 
I 
I 
1
9:00-11:30 a.m. at Logan Center there will be a super Rec with a special performance by a special guest. So come and bring a friend! Questions Sue 41-4832 or Mike 1371. 
I 
I The ND-SMC Council for the retarded is looking for a student to fill the position of accountant, to keep track of the books! Interested? Call Mike 1371 or Sue 41-4832.
I
1 
LOST & FOUND Found-Valuable Looking rug on steps of1Flanner Hall Call1049 to identify. 
I 
I 
Found: 1 pair of brown-rimmed glasses between Grace Hall & the library before break. Call Joe at 1802. 
I 
I 
Lost: Small Brown shoulder purse at St. Louis Street . parties or Corby's on Halloween night. Contains Janet Dillon 
I. D.'s. Please call Irene at 6733. 
I 
I Found-Man's watch, silver band, gold face. Found In front of Ad Building. Call 3783. 
I 
I Found: Man's digital watch In Chern. Physics Lab Library. Go there to identify, please. 
1
I 
I Lost: Navy Blue "Gerry Down" ski jacket on SMC campus Friday before break (Oct. 20) If found ple1n call 4-4412. 
I 
Lost: A "C" Letter jacket from Cornell College. Please call 232-D773. 
1
1Lost: SMC Ring "78 LAS" Reward Call 283-8033. 
I 
Lost: gold spur. Please call Jennifer 8342. 
I Found: Clairol Curling Iron on grass between O'Shag and the Library call 9049 to claim. 
•..,..._ 
~ ----­
~~ 
· 
N edWAf NTEGDA T' T

0 1
esperate Y e our · · IX to enn. Call Mary 6850· 
Need Tennessee Tix. Steve 272-9354. 
Need many Tennessee tickets student or 
G.A. Call Nic, 1738· 
Need many Tennessee Tickets, Student or G.A. Call Rene, 4__
1 5291 . 

Desperately Need 2 padded Foreigner tix. Must be good seats Call rabbit 6737 
Need 2 tx for Tennessee Call Betsy 41 _5704. 
Need 2 G.A. Tickets Good $ Call Nina 4084 (SMC) 
Need 2GA tix to Tenn. $$Call Phil 8732. 
Need 3 G.A. Tennessee Tix. Call Jim 
_
1147 
Very Desperate Will pay super mucho 
$$$for 1 Tenn. Ticket 256-2663. 
Wanted: Steve Martin and Tenn. G.A. Tickets Call Mark 3498. 
1 need 1 GA ticket for the Tennessee Game & Ticket for the Rusian
2 Basketball Game. Please call Jeff at
1000
· 
Needed: 2 GA tickets for Tennessee
Game call Bill 3682 or Mike 288-6191. 
Wanted: Wild and crazy Guy needs one 
or two lower arena Steve Martin tix, Paul 8348 
__·----------­Need Ride to milwaukee this fri. or sat Pat 8479
_ 
Full and part-time Waitresses needed at 
Nicola's Italian Restaurant. Nice atmos­
h t ood A
1 0 1 1
P ere cose campus, g t ps. PP Y in person between 4:30 and midnight
809

Tuesday through Sunday at N.
Michigan. Experience Necessary. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/full time. Europe, S. America, Australia, asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free lnfo.-Write: International Job Center, Box 4490-14
Berkeley, CA 94704 
Need 5 GA or student Tix for Tennessee G C II T 3283 
arne. a om at · Need 5 Tennessee GA's Call Jerry 8446. 
Need 4Tennessee GA tickets. Call Mark 
8507 
Need 4 GA Tennessee Tickets Call Liz 7484. 
1 need up to 500 Tennessee Tickets, Student or GA Good money. ca111n6. 
Needed: 4adjacentGAtlxtoTennessee.
Call Mark, 1478. 
Need em now-Tennessee GA tlx! Call John 1786. 
wanted: Many Tennessee Tlx call 7174 or 272-5267. 
Will trade Steve Martin for GA Tenne­ssee Tix Call 6970. 
Desperately need one or two Notre Dame season basketball tlx. Call4-1-4487. 
Desperately need Tennessee tickets. Please call 4411 Or 5651 
· Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home football game. Call Mike 7838. 
Needed: 2 GA tix for Tennessee Game. Please call Tim or Joe at 8460. Thanks. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Tenne­ssee. Call Eric 1384. 
contract totaling $2.9 million. Then comes Oscar Gamble, signed by San Diego for six years and $2.85 million but recently traded to Texas; the late Lyman Bostock, five years and $2.25 million, and Wayne Garland, 10 years and $2.185 million.. 
Zisk and Garland, a pitcher for Cleveland, signed the longest con­tracts, 10 years. Garland, how­ever, was sidelined most of this season with a shoulder injury that threatens his career and points up the risk of long-term agreements. One of the results, however of free agency is that top players are signing long-term contracts, bind­ing them to their teams and keeping them off the auction block. ''The names that do not appear are at least as significant as those 

that do," said Marvin Miller, executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Associa­tion. "And the names and num­bers that don't appear show that long-term contracts have become more and more common and pro­vide the necessary stability to the various teams." 
Few players this year are ex­pected to attract five-year con­tracts, much a 10-year agreement. 

I ~-------------------------------------------,
G •• 
Lothario-Bob \
I ~ JLA -__.!'~-A-~ How much ,do I love you? Let me count If you'd sleep more you·~ be getting the I
-~~t;lj
' 

Mom and Dad desperately need Tennes­see GA tix-Call John 8656 
Need 2 GA or student Tennessee tix.
R' h 272 1467
1c -. 

Please help. I need 2 GA tickets for Tennessee. Call lance. 1027. 
Wanted: Help my little brother see Va~us Fergason. I need 2-4 GA Tenn Tic ets. Call Jane 6868 anytime. 
Help! Desperately need 4 GA Tenn. Tlx Call 4-4952 after 3 p.m. 
Need 4 Tennessee Tickets. Call Joe 289-4313. 
Need 2 GA. Tennessee tickets. $$ Call Anne 1319. 
Need 1 GA ticket for Tennessee. If you
h 1 1 11 M 6724
can e P Pease ca ary . 
Desperately need 2 Tennessee GA's. 
Call8641 or 8683. 
Need ride to Philadelphia area for Thanksgiving break. Can leave Tuesday or Wednesday. Call John 1502. 
Need 2 GA, 4 Student Tennessee tickets 
Call Ed 11n 
Need 6 GA Tennessee Call Pete 1787. 
Jesperately need two GA tickets for
T c
ennessee all Conrad 1474. 
~~~o~ ~eeofos::!d~~T~~~~tsc~~~ J~~­
FOR SALE 
For Sale: 4Steve Martin tickets at cost. Padded seats, all together. Call 7962 or Mike at 1498. 
Book F II' 1
sare a '" I ke leaves at Pandora's 2 for 1 Autumn Sale. All used books all academic are on sale Pandura's-937 South Bend Ave-233-2342. 
Casperson's Book shop open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. A generalshop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-2888. 
For Sale: GRE Advanced Literature Test review book. Excellent condition. 41-4420. 
For Sale: Two large Advent speakers 
w/walnut cabinets. 8 months old. Perfect condition. $225. Call John at 7687. 
For Sale: Grand Prix in excellent cond. 1974 Call Shari 234-1996. 
1972 Ford Pinto Wagon; Faculty mem­ber's second car; 4-speed shift; new starter, battery, muffler; excellent mech­anically, reliable In winter. $900. 
272-8004. 
For Sale: 1971 Toyota Mark Corona, make offer; 51,000 miles; uncle sam needs money; Dave Clark-7735. 
Knute Rockne-The original 1940 Lux Radio Theater production starring Pat O'Brien and Ronald Reagan now avail­able on tape cassette. Relive the grandeur of Notre Dame's greatest legend. Send $5.98 to Little Shop on the Prairie, P.O. Box 132, Minot, N. Dakota 58701. Satisfaction guaranteed. 
PERSONALS Bulletin 1: Announcing an incredible and innovating new award: 
MS. GORGOSITY Read on. 
Beth H. We know the story that you are pure and Innocent, but we also know the untold truth. 
Patsy and laurl 


___ the observ.....e._r__1___9 
*Observer 
the P.D.A. s. 

-Your favorite P.S. Cinnamon sure is sweet 
Thunder, 

I think I love you; all n inches of you! 
Boots,

y h 1
ou make my eart go pitter patter. Your secret Admirer 
• R&R 

Super Party! Let's do It again. LoveR. 
"Alpha Phi Omega Members, meet at the Library Circle at 9:30 a.m. Saturdayfor the trip to Sr. Maritas." 
To our Funky Monkey"

Happy 19th! Love your "Old, old lady", California girl , and Carolina. 
Mistletoe Madness is coming! 
1034 Eddy Street, Thanx, we love It, 

&
P K 
P.S. Dennis, we never did get to see your legs! 
G be
Bulletin II: Ms. orgosity Must female member of N.D.-SMC com­munlty. There will be weekly winner for 
woman epitomizing Gorgeousness In all 
Its radiant splendor. 

Bulletln3: Ms. Gorgosity nominees must 
be authentic women (no queens please) between ages of 17-100. Her very existence must be aesthetically edifying to a high degree. 
Ny ny, :~:nro~~JP;~1~~:-John will be here 
Bulletin 4: 
Weekly winners will: 

A. Receive an appropriate gift commas­urate with their gorgostly.
B. Receive undyin~ love and devotion of male population at D. 
C. Compete in the Grand Finale (The Gorgoslty Bowl] in December. The win­ner will be crowned Queen Gorgeous lin
f 
a regal ceremony too awesome or 
descrfptlon. 

Bulletin 5: Weekly winners start Thurs­day night on the Adonis Show 9-11 p.m. on WSND, 640 am. Be sure to tune in 
tonlte for our first winner of Ms. 
GorQOSityof ND-SMC. P.S. Other details (voting, rules) to be announced duringshow. 
Cindy
1like my raisins plump! 

Phil, Behave yourself without us this weekend, K&P 
The first of eight big hockey weekends Is here! Come help the Irish smash Denver-7:30 Friday and Saturday at the ACC. Be there! 
four tickets tor Navy game bus trip available. Calll-996-4371. 
There are three cute, sexy and excitable. boys In 229 Alumni. Martin Is cute, Digger is sexy, and Andy is "just an excitable boy.'' 
John Baby, 1guess I lost, but you lost a whole lot more than 1did! 
Klssy Lips 
Prodigal roommate, have a wonderful 21st Birthday! Love & Kisses Sue . 
To the "wild and crazy guy": The 4girls from 4th Regina South Love you and wish you the happiest of all birthdays. 
Cindy, 

Got any raisins left, or did Doug eat them 
all? 

Speaking of Sports 

WSND's Speaking of Sports will feature the hockey tri-captains on AM 640 this Sunday night. Listeners can call in and talk to Greg Meredith, Steve Scheider, and Tom Michalek, in addition to the WSND sports staff, from 9-11 p.m. 
messages I've been sendmg you! Dream 
on, 
Kim I 
All of Janice's friends who need direct­ions to Jim's party call her before 
1 
Saturday at 4394. ------------1 Paddle fishers who have ordered T-shirts and have not picked them up may do so 1 
now. Either call Mike or Brian at 1150, or stop by 265 Alumni. 1 
Bunny and Ann: Can we only get you 1 over to Flanner if we promise you candy? We don'tthlnk we can afford those rates. 
1 
(especially with your big hands!) Are the Bees mad? Take aGuess... 
1 
P.S. Who luv's ya Baby??? 
1 
Dear Staff (I guess that means you, Scoop), I 
Any more personals about my chin, and I'll show how handy 1 am w1th a razor I blade--on your chin. P'accord? 
Phil I 
BSC-The Vagabond-You're an example I to all of us. Happy one year of bliss. Signed, Hopefully going west. I 
Suave, Sophisticated Cutie: I "Speaking of friends, and we were," How's my favorite yield sign? I 
Love 'n' Hugs, Olivia Newton John I 
Leprechaun, I ..,."Miss ya! Love, Your Irish Lassie I 
Announcing the ore;nlng ni~ht of St. I
M • s
ary s peaker Ser es-Nov. 1 . Our first speaker will be fomer candidate for I :r~~~~~cyoro~e~ls.'alr nation. Keep I 
I 
Don, Best Is Public Relations Director for I Tampa Bay. Newspaper people are 
resourceful.! Beth 
I
I 
ME* I
You're the bestlll
Lov 
Thu~y Night Stiff 
I 
I 
Beth 
Its about time that I put In a personal 1 about you. I had to get revenge on what you and Matt did to me at Dillon that 1 
night. 
P.S. I am no that short, you are just too 1 tall (Matt you are next). 1 
Patsy 
1 
RENNY WARD• HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 
1 
It's nice to be legal, Isn't it? 
1 
Needed: A guide for Patsy while at NO-she still can't find anything but the 1 Dome. 
I 
Patsy: Remember that there are other things In life besides guys and partying-I at least during the week-like studying. 
, lt. I 
Bean Hayeds: I An erie Hello! We love you and miss you but are having a Crinkly time! ICC I forever! Send letters soon! Your Irish frauds, I 
Maggot and Bind 
I 

Tom Feitar Is one of the most boring people we know! Totally and unequivl-I cably clueless-
The Sagran Wrap lady I 
and One Weaselette 
1 

JOHN MOORE Attention-next week the underground I newspaper of NO the "lh Flash" will be · running a 2 page picture feature on you I and one Michel Alexander, as the true unsung heroic athletes of NO. I 
Sign~ the Editor :..ollllllo 
. -?~ 



---~-~........_.--~------~--------------------~..... 





Irish ready to test undefeated Navy 
Sports Writer Panther quarterback Rick Trocano

I Throughout its 51 years existence, the Navy-Notre Dame series has been a very one-sided one. the '• Fighting Irish have won 41 while
' 
f i' losing only 9 with one game ending in a tie. In the last 10 years the 
N.D. dominance can be seen in
I! their amazing offensive output -37

• points per game. 
However the Irish will be hard pressed to match that output in tomorrow afternoon's contest in Cleveland's Municipal Stadium. The game will have a 1:50 kickoff and will be broadcast live by WSND's Paul Stauder and Lou Severino beginning at 1:45. 
Navy has swept to seven straight wins this season behind a stingy defense which leads the nation in both scoring defense and team defense. The Midshipmen have allowed only 5 points per game, and a meager 158 yards in total defense. Navy hopes to shut down the Irish offense and post their first series win since 1963 when Roger Staubach led them to a 35-14 win. That year also marked the Middies last bowl appearance, a 28-6 Cotton Bowl loss to Texas. 
Coach George Welsh's squad is the first Navy team since the 1960 Joe Bellino-led squad to capture their first seven games. The last Navy team to win their first 8 contests was the 1926 club which went on to win the National Championship. However, Welsh and his unheralded Midshipmen are surely not looking past tomor­row's match-up. 
Navy swept to easy wins in their· first six games against teams like Virginia, Connecticut, and Boston College. It wasn't until last week's 21-11 upset over the Pittsburgh Panthers that the Middies began to 
I , receive national recognition. The 
i 
remarkable Navy defense held Pitt 
I : 
I 
t. 
====================================================================================================================================================================================;=============:===:=====:============================================:================================:====:====:===:=============The Irish Eye 
The Irish Eye is back after a two week layoff and ready to pick eleven games on the nose. Lou Severino faired well as a pinch hitter tabbing nine correct in eleven attempts. We'll call it beginner's luck. The top games on the chart this week are Notre Dame's contest with undefeated Navy and the matchup between unbeatens Penn State and Maryland. The rest of the top teams should be able to weather their games in preparation for the conference showdowns that begin next week. With the help of Agency Director Ed Tessalone here is this week's results one day ahead of time. 


California at Arizona State: The Sun Devils got burnt by Washington while they were gloating over their victory against USC. ASU's defense forgot how to tackle and if they do not wake up quick last week's embarrassment will look like a picnic next to what California can do. The Golden Bears are ranked fourth in the nation in passing thanks to Rich Campbell's 256 yards average per game. The only catch is that Cal's defense makes the opponent look like the top offensive team in the nation so expect ASU to rebound with a 9 point win. Tessalone likes California by 3. Air Force at Army: This battle of less than also rans should be pretty close. With Navy taking the military honors, both these academies have lost the little press they had. Air Force can pass and Army's running game has clicked at times which is appropriate, but neither team's offensive attack has been consistent. The defenses have been nothing to write home about so expect the game to be fun and high scoring. With the game at Army, the psychological edge will make the differences as the Cadets claim a 10 point victory. Tessalone agrees. Brown at Harvard: The Crimson have been consistent only in inconsistency this year. Two weeks ago they upset Dartmouth and then played to a lackluster tie against Princeton last week. Brown has one of the toughest teams on paper in the Ivy League, but even at Harvard the papers are left in the classrooms on Saturdays. Restic's squad is inexperienced and it shows too often. Brown smells an Ivy League title and is not a likely upset victim so I'll go with them by a 12 point margin. Tessalone picks the Bruins by a TD. Texas A&M at Southem Methodist: SMU has been the surprise college team to date, especially with their tough schedule. For the first time all year SMU was out of a game as they lost decisively to Texas. The Aggies continue to role, but have Arkansas and Texas still ahead. With the game at Southern Methodist, and A&M looking ahead to bigger and better things, the game-will be close but not an upset as the Aggies win by a TD. Ditto for Tessalone. Rice at Arkansas: The sure game of the week and not a minute too soon from Arkansas who have lost two in a row and are giving the season up for lost with a National Championship nearly impossible. Expect Lou Holtz to be mad and take out his frustrations on poor old Rice, who never meant anyone any harm. The Razorbacks will be playing on pride which is more than enough to beat their SWC neighbors by 17. Tessalone calls for a 21 point margin. Southem Cal at Stanford: Even though the Trojans can't afford to lose,
I I 
this game has upset possibilities. The Cardinals are at home and w·~ Steve Oils' arm anything is possible. Stanford tops all schools in passin~, averaging 283 yards per game. Dils is the top passer in the country and also has more total offense than anyone else. That spells danger for USC, 
,,f 
6 times for 57 yards in losses. This win helped catapult Navy to the #11 •mot in the AP poll. 
The success of the Navy defense has been a surprise to everyone, incuding Coach Welsh. The five­year Middie mentor expected this to be a rebuilding year for the unit which lost 7 starters to graduation last year. 
''Our defensive unit has seemed to click since our opening game this year," said Welsh. "We expected to have a good defense, but thought it would take time for the new players to fit in. It certainly has been a pleasant surprise to see our defense dominate other teams the way they have this year," added Welsh. 
The key to this record-setting unit is quickness. The unit makes up for its lack of size with tenacious play and gang-tackling. Like the rest of the defense, the front five is not very physically imposing. The ends are 6-0, 210 pound Mark Stephens and 6-0, 202 Junior Charlie Thornton. The tackles are 6-6, 248 John Merrill and 6-4, 223, Soph Steve Chambers. Senior A.B. Miller has recovered from a mid-season injury and will start at noseguard in the Middies 5-2 alignment. The 6-1, 219 pound Miller has been particularly effec­tive as a pass rusher with six sacks for -52 yards. 
Navy's two linebackers are very active as shown by their team leadership in tackles. Tom Paulk leads the defense with 71 stops, and is joined behind the line by co-captain Nick Mygas, who has been credited with 51 tackles. 
Navy's secondary has been just as effective defending against the pass as the front seven has been against the run. The defensive backfield consists of one four-year starter, a walk-on, a converted 
Irish to defeat Middies by 17 
quarterback, and a converted run-The Irish offense Saturday• will be ning back. Gregg Milo is the the same unit which has played the leader of this unit. the 5-11 197 majority of the last three games. pound rover was named ECAC Up front, Dave Huffman will be Defensive Player of the Week for over the ball, flanked by his brother 
his performance against Pitts­Tim at right guard and Jim 
burgh. Milo made eight tackles Hautman at the other guard. Tim and broke up three passes in that Foley, who is enjoying a fine 
season, will be at one tackle with
contest. The other safety is sophomore Fred Reitzel who also Rob Martinovich at the other. 
Dennis Grindinger will start at
enjoyed an outstanding game 
tight end, while Kevin Hart andagainst the Panthers. Reitzel Freshman Dean Masztak will pro­
notched six tackles, broke up five bably also see action at that spot.
passes and also intercepted an 
The flanker spot will be shared byaerial. The Navy cornerbacks are Jim Stone and Pete Holohan, withBob Wilson and Chuck Zingler. 
Kris Haines, who has really comeNavy has fared very well against on in recent weeks, starting at widethe pass allowing only 48 percent receiver.
completions and an average of 105 The Irish backfield has seen someyards passing per game. 
but you can betJohnRobinson will be ready. The Trojans will probably try and control the game on the ground, behind the rushing of Charles White, who is third in the nation in rushing (144.3 yds. per game). If that strategy fails, their trip to the Rose Bowl will have to wait yet another year, but don't bet on it as I'm picking USC by 12. Tessalone sees the Trojans on top by 10. Northwestern at Panlue: The Wildcats have enough trouble without facing the Sports Dlustrated jinx. Purdue is smelling roses but they better enjoy them while they last. Herrmann has yet to show the freshman form of 1977 and until he comes around the hopes of a Big Ten title are unrealistic. The Boilermakers rushing game has made the difference along with their big play defense. I don't think it's fair to blame this one on Sports Dlustrated but Purdue will win by 17. Tessalone picks the Boilermakers by 13. Oklahoma at Colorado: Oklahoma is three games away from finishing the regular season undefeated. Presently they have a firm hold on the number one spot, but they must still face Nebraska, and if they are looking one week ahead the price may be high. Colorado staged a spectacular fourth quarter rally to edge Missouri, so they are not to be taken lightly. The fact that the Buffaloes are in their back yard makes an upset even more believable. However, when you get as close as the Sooners are to the National Championship, you don't lose to a 5-3 team. There is nothing that Irish fans would like better, but Colorado in a shocker is too much to ask as the Sooners get the tab by 8. Tessalone chooses Oklahoma by 12. Louisiana State at Mississippi: The Tigers have only dropped one game to Georgia, who could end up as the SEC champ. Mississippi has one thing going for them and that is the best punter in college football, and he certainly will get to show his stuff this Saturday. The only danger is that the game is at Mississippi and the Rebels have yet to pull off their annual upset. Last week they knocked off lowly Vanderbilt so they are primed for a kill. Too bad all that priming will be wasted in an 11 point loss. Tessalone likes that pick. Maryland at Penn State: The Nittany Lions have the longest winning streak in college football and Joe Paterno is licking his chops in anticipation of the McArthur Bowl that has eluded his grasp for over a decade. Maryland is also undefeated and has faced as little talent as Penn State: Too bad for the Terrapins that the game is in Beaver Stadium. It also is too important a game for Paterno's team to drop as they only have a down fallen Pitt team left between them and their choice of bowl games. I expect a less than classic battle but their will be jubilation at Penn State as the home team claims a 6 point victory. Tessalone calls for PSU by a TD. Notre Dame at Navy [Cleveland]: Skeptics are still asking if Navy is for real. Any team that holds' a nationally ranked team to minus 28 yards rushing in a game relies on more than luck. Navy is fast and hits hard. There are few all-stars but they come in swarms. Notre Dame could claim the same of their defense and that is why it is going to be such a hard hitting game. Besides Pitt, the Midshipmen have not faced a decent 
. team. That could make a difference, but they will certainly be sky high for the game. Navy's one weakness is turnovers and if they come !ike they did against the Panters, it will be no contest. Tessalone picks ND by 7. I MAY BE WRONG BUT I'U PICK THE lRISH BY 17. 
new faces in recent weeks with the 
added playing time for Pete Pallas 
and Pete Buchanan, but the majo­
rity of the ball-carrying will once 
again be done by the 1-2 punch of 
Jerome Heavens and Vagas Fer­
guson. The Irish rushing attack 
has been well-balanced with Hea­
vens leading the team with 590 
yards and Ferguson right behind 
with 589. · 
Quarterback Joe Montana will test 
the Navy secondary, which has not 
faced a passing attack as potent at 
Notre Dame's. Montana has 
completed 82 of 149 passes for 1173 
yards and 5 touchdowns. Kris 
Haines has been his favorite target 
with 15 receptions for 392 yards 
and an impressive average of 26.1 
vards per catch. 
For the Navy offense, quarter­
back Bob Leszczynski will be trying 
to match his performance of two 
years ago in Cleveland when he 
nearly led the underdog Middies to 
an upset of the Fighting Irish. 
Leszczynski has dropped 10 pounds 
from last year, and the added 
quickness he has gained has made 
him more of a running as well as a 
passing threat. The 6-0 195 pound 
senior has only passed 91 times, 
but has completed 44 for 692 yards, 
and more importantly 7 touch­
downs. 
Joining Leszczyski in the back­
field will be Fullback Larry Klawin­
ski and Tailback Steve Callahan. 
The latter runner has been the 
most effective for the Middies. 
Callahan has gained 628 yards on 
151 carries for a 4.2 average and 
has also provided an outside threat 
for opposing defenses. Manning 
the other skill positions for Navy 
wilJ be leading receiver Phil Me 
Conkey (17 catches for 411 yards), 
wingback Sandy Jones and tight 
end Curt Gainer. 5-6 Bob Tata will 
provide the placekicking. Tata has 
booted 11 of 16 field goals and 18 of 
19 extra points. The Punter will be 
Art O'Hanian, who has averaged 
36.5 on 40 punts. 
Navy has not been forced to pass very often this year because of the success of their running attack, but the Middies may have difficulties establishing a running game against the Irish ·defense which shut down Miami last week. Last week's shutout effort was paced by the front four which played an outstanding game. Jeff Weston and Mike Calhoun will start at the tackles with Jay Case at one end. The other spot may be filled by 
[continued on page 18] 
Hockey ticket 


pick-up today 
Students who have purchased season tickets for the Notre Dame hockey team, and have not picked them up yet, should do so by 5 p.m. this afternoon, prior to the opening home game. Tickets can be picked up at the second floor box office of the A.C.C. 






