
, 
Roemer tells HPC meeting-­alcohol abuse serious concern 
by Dan letcher Staff Reporter 
''The thing that concerns me most is serious alcohol abuse," Dean of Students James Roemer told the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) last night in Zahm Hall. He also discuss In loco parentis and student's rights at the meeting. 
Concerning alcohol problems, Roemer stated that "something has to be done about the wild compulsion to go out and get drunk on Friday nights. I would like to stand up and say something effec­tive concerning alcohol abuse.'' 
Roemer was blunt with council members and told that he hears a lot of lip service from students but little follow-through in solving the problems. "I'd like to see some groups show responsibility and get behind some positive programs in terms of alcohol abuse," he said. 
Legality and liability were two main ideas Roemer stressed when asked about existing rules concern­ing the use of alcohol. "The law of Indiana is very clear and the 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No. 22 WednesdaYf September 27, 1978 
Affects passengers and freight 

Train strike halts 43/ines 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Freight 
and commuter rail service rolled to 
at least a temporary halt across 
most of the country yesterday as a 
clerks' union on strike against a 
Virginia-based railroad expanded 
its picketing to 43 other lines. 
The striking Brotherhood of 
Railway and Airline Clerks said 
early morning picketing had shut 
down or curtailed operations at 
two-thirds of the nation's major 
railroads, affecting every part of 
the nation except the heavily­
travded Northeast corridor. Ser­
vice there was reported normal. 
State Affected by Strike The strike has shut down or 'limited railroaa freight and passen­ger operations in Indiana. 
Marian Brehmer is totaHy shocked although Dr. David Appel appears·calm as he hands her a check for $100 as part of the Outstanding junior Marketing Award. Although she won this award last year as a junior, the presentation was made last night. This is the first time the cash award has been given. The awud is presented by the Marketing Club to a junior who has been greatly involved in Marketin Oub activities. Photo b Ken McAlpine1 
University can -take no action to permit underage drinking in com­mon rooms," he explained. 
Jim O'Hare, Grace Hall presi­dent, suggested that there may be a way to redefine some areas in the dorms as private residences. However, Roemer stated that this would be taking too much of a chance, saying, "If the University condones the underage drinking some particular room.-they could 
be held responsible..:L 
When discussing in loco paren· tis, Roemer said that "every admi­nistrator is going to have to speak for themselves." He added that he really does not look upon students in a family relationship. 
Jose Morrero, Pangborn Hall president, stated that "the main gripe of students is that we are too often treated as adults in some instances, but when it is not for the benefit of the University, we are treated as something less than adults." He cited as examples the "Sorin seven" and parietals. 
Roemer replied by relating the "Sorin seven" story and said it 
Amtrak passenger service in the state has been curtailed. And in the southwestern part of the state, Louisville and Nashville facilities in the Evansville area are affected. 
Richard Bunton, manager of passenger services for the Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad, said the line operated at full service Tuesday. 
According to union estimates, more than 330,000 of the nation's half-million railroad workers honored picket lines and stayed off the job, leaving more than 100,000 morning commuters stranded and idling millions of tons of freight. 
Amtrak, the national rail passenger line, said service was normal along its Boston-to-Washington routes, but all other morning train service was canceled except for one West Coast train. Amtrak said about half of its 52,000 daily riders were denied service. 
Only Conrail Avoids Pickets 
Conrail, the nation's largest freight carrier, was not picketed, reportedly because it had obtained 
a temporary court injunction ban­ning such activity last week. Conrail, which is concentrated in the Northeast, also operates a few commuter lines. 
The hardest hit area of the country appeared to be in Chicago, where picketing of passenger lines forced up to 100,000 commuters to find other means of ~etting to 
[Continued on page 2) 
came down to a question of who would run the hall. When asked by the rector of Sorin if he would back up the transfer of the students, Roemer agreed. "I will always back up the rector," he stated. 
Concerning parietals, Roemer rhetorically asked, "Why don't I put clear rules out concerning parietals?" He continued by stating that there were clear rules; "The first infraction sent to me is a work offense. The second offense is transfer off campus,'' he said. 
Other business included Joe Guckert, Homecoming chairman, who asked the HPC for feedback on the king and queen issue. After some discussion, it was decided to give up the idea. 
Campus Life Council representa­tive Bill Vida asked for the coun­cil's reaction to one solution of dorm overcrowding-the lottery of seniors off-campus. Chuck Del­Grande, HPC chairman, stated, "it is the feeling of the HPC that this solution would be a last resort." 
Next week's meeting will take place at 6:30 p.m. in Sorin Hall. 


SANTIAGO• Chlle, [AP] -A 
century-old dispute between . Argentian and Chile over owner­ship of three tiny islands off the tip of South America has heated up to the point that many on both sides 
fear war. 
Negotiators for the two South 
American neighbors held a round 
of talks recently in Santiago, work­
ing against a backdrop of rumored 
troop clashes, an accidental incur­
sion by Argentine soldiers two 
weeks ago, a sharp decline in 
bilateral trade and expulsion of 
many Chileans working in 
Argentina. 
The islands of Picton, Lennox 
and Nueva, south of Tierra del 
Fuego, have been held by Chile 
since the last century. Argentina 
has claimed them almost as long. 
The nations are more concerned 
about the surrounding ocean than 
the islands because there are 
unconfirmed reports of petroleum 
resources nearby. 
An arbitration commission to 
resolve the dispute was appointed 
by teh British government in 1971. 
It ruled last year that under the 
1881 limits treaty between Chile 
and Argentina the islands belonged 
to Chile. 
Argentina argues that while the 1881 treaty does concede all Pacific islands south of the Beagel Canal to Cape Horn are Chile's, the disputed islands are in the Atlantic and therefore belong to Argentina. But it is not clear if the islands are in the Atlantic or the Pacific. 
Argentina rejected the island arbitration decision early this year and sent its entire navy sailing through the area. And it was doubly irritated when Chile said it planned to claim a 200-mile terri­torial limit extending east of the islands, well into the Atlantic. 
Bishops DeDoance 
Potential 'Suldcle' 
The Roman Catholic bishops of Chile and Argentina met for two days recently in Mendoza, Argentina, then issued a joint plea ''to avoid whatever confrontation, which besides being absurd, would be suicide.'' 
Brazil was brought into the dispute recently when Argentina prohibited for several weeks the passage across its territory ot Brazilian-made trucks sold to Chilean dealers. Brazil reacted by blocking a reported 200 Argentine cargo trucks from entering Brazil with fruit and other goods for sale. 
Presidents Rafael Videla of Argentina and Augusto Pinochet of Chile, both army generals, held a summit meeting last Fegruary in the southern Chilean lake region and agreed to appoint negotiating commissions to discuss territorial sea limits near the islands. 
But Pinochet said the discussions would not include the islands, which he said were not negotiable. Videla said ARgentina was not changing its position. 
So it is not clear what high level negotiating groups have been talk­ing ablut in their frequent sessions here and in Buenos Aires. After each round they issue brief state­ments which say little. 
Argentine military officers have been making strong off-the-record remarks to Argentine newspapers calling for seizure of the islands. 
sAte election 
results ·announced· 
The .. following Saint ~~~y~s studeltts ...• Wete elected ..to·..·. the Freshman.Coulldl on Montijay:
Katie Conley · · Jenny Dehner Judy Donnelly 
Kathleen Engler Helen Fuller Ellen Gorman . . Ellen HackJ 
· Mary Beth Humenik Cindy Jaskiewicz Shelia McGahan Eileen Murphy NiniStoiJ Antonia Trigiani Lynn Van Wassenhove Also elected on Monday were this year's Saint Mary's student assembly members: Lynne Ewald • Augusta Hall Stephanie Hof-LeMans Hall Susan Ellsworth • LcMans Hall Kathy Md;rath • McCandless Hall Carolyn Dampf • Reama Hall Marl Jean Moran • Regina Hall 

the obseryar Wednesday, September 27, 1978 
News Briefs--------~ 
t=:=~=========::::=========::::== World Egypt seeks Arab backing 
CAIRO [AP) • Egypt launched a diplomatic campS:ign yesterda~ to win Arab backing for the Camp Davtd agreement wtth Israel, telhng Arab ambassadors in Cairo that the accords are only a step toward a comprehensive Mideast settlement. Though Jordan and Saudi Arabia two moderate Arab states, have refrained from endorsing the Ca~p David agreement, they have not joined the h~rd-line arab nations, led by Syria, in plainning active steps agamst Sadat. Diplomatic sources in Riyadh said Saudi Arabia is expected .to continue its moderate oil policies, material support of Egypt and tts special relationship with the United States. 
1='==========::=::::============:::::= National 
Jet crash hearing begins 
WASIUNGTON [AP] • "Two unusual situations" -a light aircraft ascent and the switching of radio frequencies-might have combined to cause the midair collision in San Diego, Calif., that killed at 1east 150 persons, Elwood T. Driver, acting chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, told Congress yesterday. However.' he emphasized that his testimony to a ~oll:se G~vernme~t Operations subcommittee was based on very prehmtnary mformatlon about the collision Monday, the worst in U.S. aviation history. 
t-=:::====~==:::::::=::::======:::::::=:::::::::::::::::==::::== Local 
Ticket slowdown planned 
INDIANAPOUS [AP]. Most of Indiana's policemen will participate in a statewide ticket slowdown, intended to gain collective bargaining rights by hitting government in its budget books, the president of the state Fraternal Order of Police predicted yesterday. Vern Tincher, a state police sergeant who heads the 9,000 member Indiana FOP, said the slowdown won't jeopardize traffic safety. Police still will issue verbal or written warnings for traffic violations and may write tickets for flagrant violations, such as excessive speed, drunk driving or driving with a suspended license. 
Weather 
Partly cloudy with a chance of showers and thunderstorms today and tonight. Highs today in the low to mid 70s. Lows tonight in the upper 40s and low 50s. Mostly sunny Thursday with highs in the mid 70s. 

On Campus Today-~ 
, grad seminar, "oscillations in catalytic reactions," by prof. moshe sheintuch, of israel, 269 chem engr. bldg. 
3:30pm, lecture, "the private citizen in the public good," sr. jane scully, r.s.m., board of directors gulf oil corp., sponsored by the college of bus. adm., mem. aud. 
4 p.m., camp david agreement discusion, with arab and israeli faculty members and students, sponsored by american professors for peace in the middle east, 12th floor mem. lib. reading room 
4 p.m., 
soccer, notre dame vs. albion 

4:30p.m. niewland lecture, "reconstitutuins of membrane function--what.can we learn from them?" dr. efraim racker, 123 nieuwland sci. 
5:15p.m., faster's mass, sponsored by the world hunger coalition, walsh hall chapel 
ij:30 p.m., women's self defense class, taught by sgt. wolvos of sb police, sponsored by phys. ed. dept., open to all, Iafortune ballroom 
7 p.m., lecture, "transcendental meditation", sponsored by sims club, 120 o'shag 
1, 9, 11 p.m.,film, "butch cassidy and the sundance kid," engr. aud, $1 
7 p.m., film, "henry v" with laurence olivier., sponsored by eng. dept., arch aud 
:30 p.m., seminar, "the new accoutability," sr. jane scully, rsm, sponsored by coli. of bus. adm., open to faculty and grads only, 121 hayes-healy 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Brvan Grulev Features Editor Doug Christian Photo Editor 
. ·~ .' . 
............ 
Train strike halts 43/ines 
[Continued from page 1) work. 
The union said the picketing was aimed at companies that had been lending equipment and personnel to the strike-bound Norfolk & Western Railway, based in Roanoke, Va. 
Union President Fred Kroll said in a statement that the picketing was intended to "bring increasing pressure" on the N&W to settle a contract dispute with the union, which struck the railroad on July 10. 
Sr. Jane Sculley to speak today at library Auditorium 
Sr. Jane Scully, R.S.M., presi­dent of Pittsburgh's Carlow Col­lege since 1966 and the first elected woman member of Gulf Oil Corpo­ration's Board of Directors, will discuss "The Private Citizen in the Public Good" at the first Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture at 3:30 
p.m. today in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Scully was appointed in 1973 to the President's National Commis­sion for the Financing of Postse­condary Education and has served on several Pittsburgh and national educational task forces, commit­tees and advisory boards. 
The Cardinal O'Hara Lectures honor a former Notre Dame presi­
r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Margie Brassil Asst. Night Editor: Dawn Miller Layout Staff: Bart Corsaro Sports layout: Greg Soloman & The Pittsburgh Stealer Typists: Betsy (Boo) Masana, 
·Nancy Morris, Mary Chustak, Katie Brehl Night Co~troller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Marcia Kovas Copy Reader: Mark Rust, Marian Ulicny Ad Layout: Sue Johnston Photographer: Kevin 
lMcAipine 
Industry lawyers, contending the picketing was illegal, went to federal courts wherever there were pickets. They obtained temporary injunctions in several locations ordering the picketing to stop. 
Two of the largest railroads affected by the picketing, the Burlington Northern and Union Pacific, obtained court injunctions that covered the two lines' entire systems, and company officials yesterday said they hoped to have normal operations restored before the day was through. 
dent, 1934-1940, who served as the first dean of the College of Busi­ness Administration. Leaders in the fields of education, government and business are guests of the University each year and present classroom as well as public appear­ances. Dr. Salvatore J. Bella, Jones Professor of Management, is directing the 1978-79 series of talks. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obser-ver Is published by the studenn of Notre Dame and Saint 
Marrs College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S20 per year ($1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana USS6. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, 
Indiana, 46556. 
. The Observer Is • member of 
the ASIOcl8ted Prell. All repro­
duction rights ere restrv.cl. 
~SAT, SEPT. 30 
;:fn, Sept: :g=", 8 pm Notre Dame Library Aud. 
(Donations will be taken) 
Industry officials said they hoped similar court bictories for other railroads would bring the picketing to an end before Wednesday. 
However, lines providing finan­cial assistance to the N&W under a mutual aid pact -as opposed to other types of assistance -could face more picketing over the finan­cial aid issue. 
Chief Justice Warren Burger refused yesterday to block picket­ing over financial aid, clearing the way for the union to escalate its strike to 73 railroads. 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGN 
Cosima IConnie 
Rose Terry Women 
$ 15.00 I $11.00 
Men 

$11.00 $8.00 
For Ap. Call 

277-1875 18441 St. Rob 23 
South Bend Ind. 
CEN:ERf 
~LCLARK &fRIEN~ 

Gom~r Ward, one top vice presidents from DuPont, spoke last mght to marketing students expressing optimism for graduates entering the business field. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
NCAA defends policies 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The National Collegiate Athletic Associ­ation takes the offensive for the first time today in the year-long probe by Congress into the ama­teur sports organization's enforce­ment of its rules. 
J. Neils Thompson of the Univer­sity of Texas, NCAApresident, and Walter Byers, NCAA executive director, will be the first to testify in the two-day hearing, which will close out the probe of the House Investigations and Oversight Sub­committee. 
Arthur R. Reynolds and Charles Wright of the NCAA infractions committee will head the list of witnesses testifying tomorrow. 
The subcommitte, at the instiga­tion of Rep. Jim Santini, D-Nev., has been investigating whether the NCAA policies violate antitrust laws, whether its investigative methods provide for due process and whether the penalties assessed to member institutions, athletes and coaches are fair and equitable.-
Santini called for the investiga­tion into the NCAA's enforcement of its rules in the summer of 1977 after the University of Nevada-Las Vegas basketball program was placed on two years' probation for recruiting and other violations. 
For the past year, the subcom­mittee has taken testimony from representatives of several universi­ties, including Mississippi State, Minnesota, Michigan State, Okla­homa State, Denver University and Nevada-Las Vegas, all schools place on probation for alleged violations. Most of the testimony has been critical of the NCAA policies. 
Until now, however, the NCAA 
*********************************** 
* * 
~ LAST CHANCE ! I 
* * 
* * 
* *
! Free University : * *
i Registration 
: 
* 
* 
~ Today & Tomorrow : * *
* * 
~ 8:00-5:00 :
* * 
* * 
~Sponsored by N.D. Student Union;
* * 
: & Saint ~ary's $tudent Gov't * 
has not been able to give its defense. 
In a letter to Thompson last August, the committee asked that the NCAA respond at the hearing on 46 recommendations made dur­
ing  the  previous  seven  days  of  
public  hearing.  The  NCAA  is  
expected to do so.  
Reforms Recommended  

The committee's recommenda­tions include the following: 
The member institution should be informed at the time a complaint is lodged with the NCAA and provided with a description of the nature of such complaint. 
-The member institution should be informed at the time a complaint is lodged with the NCAA and provided with a description of the nature of such complaint. 
-Investigations of potential NCAA infractions should be paral­lei and contemporaneous between the" involv~ member institution and the NCAA enforcement staff. 
-All individuals, including for­mer student-athletes and represen­tatives of the university's athletic interests, subject to a charge of possible violaton of NCAA legisla­tion should have the right to notice of charges and the right to appear with counsel before the NCAA committee on infractions as well as the NCAA Council should an appeal be taken. 
-The accused party should not have to prove innocence, i.e., when the investigative findings of the institution and the enforcement staff differ, the burden of the proof should not shift to the accused party. 
, ,Wednesday, September 27, 1978 the observer 
While denouncing Japanese 
Dupont vice president shows optimism in business graduates 
by Tom Jackman 
One of the top vice presidents from DuPont Corporation, Gomar Ward, speaking to business and marketing students yesterday, warned that "imports are killing us" but noted that today's college graduates can rectify this situation. 
Ward expressed optimism for graduates entering the business field and also endorsed the textile industry, noting that 42.6 billion pounds of fiber per year are moved around the globe. He said that of the three fundamentals of life-­food, shelter and clothing--textiles are involved in the latter two. This 
is  an  ''extremely exciting  busi­ 
ness," he added.  
Ward listed four  things  which  

must happen in the next ten years for the textile industry to continue its growth. He first declared that since less material is being used in clothing today, the competition in the field is higher than ever. 
••Look at Cosmopolitan magazine these days," he said. "Do you see the amount of material in the kind of clothes they're wearing?" 
He said that other industries (such as the camera industry) may claim the same problem, but added, "Have you ever seen a Japanese without a camera? Well, I've seen them without sweaters, 
and rd like to see more of them 
with (sweaters)." Ward said that, secondly, new 
sources of energy must be deve­loped. He also spoke of the need for better automation and distribu­
tion, in order to export the great l!::=========================fJ
number of products produced in 
th~~~;;ding to Ward, restraints on 
the growth of the industry can be solved by new entries into the business field. Commenting on one such restraint--Japanese
imports--Ward said, "Don't you think it's strange that the two countries <Japan and Germany> we 
just finished whipping (in World 
War II) are already ahead of us economically? They must have 
figured that if they can't win on the
battlefield, they'll win in busi­
ness." 
Three other factors restraining textile business growth are govern­ment regulations, a need for modernization and a lack of creati­vity. 
"We have become creatures of copying the other guy," Ward told his audience. He stated that creativity in the American textile industry is heading toward a standstill. 
Ward concluded his speech by quoting from a Roper Survey of college students, the majority of whom, Roper said, felt pessimistic about the future of the U.S. Ward expressed his hope that the stu­dents of Notre Dame did not feel that way and that they would take advantage of the bright future ahead of them. 
··vou are well-fed, well-housed, and well-educated. You cannot fail, in my opinion," he said. 
Ward's talk was the first of this year's Gilbert Lecture Series, span­sored by the Marketing Oub. 
hOWaRO hall 
PRESENTS 
''PRepaRation ~oR anO abm1ss•on 1nto law Schoot't 
AN INFORMAL LECTURE BY 
Oean t1nk THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 
7.·oo PM 
Jn hOWaRO hall 
,._..._.._.._._..-..--.-...-...-..-...-...-•..__..._._._...._.._._.-~ 
) RATHSKELLAR-LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER i 
t ir  ORGANIZATIONAL mEETING f01 the  ~ i r  
l ~  COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL.  l i  
\  ·  ~  
•  '  

l l 
~ 7:00 THURS SEPTEmBER 28 ~ 
r \ ll ALL INTERESTED ARE INVITED TO AnEND ' l ~.._...~~~.__... ......~.~~.....................,..~~.................-.~~..,......,z 

ers 
Dance to the hot rock & roll sounds of ''PACIFIC'' 
Monday-Friday 
Happy Hour 4pm-7pm free hors d'oeuvres 
Sunday 
Beer special 4:30-10:30 ........................ '1.25 a pitcher 
Beer drinking contest ...•.................•.•..•. '50.00 prize 
Monday Gong Show •.•............................••• win dinner for two 
Wednesday Macho man contest ................................ '50.00 prize co-sponsored: New Century Design Friday 
Foxy lady ........................................ ··••···· ·'50.00 prize co-sponsored: New Century Design Posy Patch 
Second Pitcher FREE with this ad 

515 o1x1ewAv NoRTH • u.s. HIGHwAv 31 $ d h SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46637 Good only on un ay Nlg t PHONE 2111212-eeoo 
,,,,,,

***************************~******:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'''"'''''' 
the observer Wednesc'by, September 27, 1978 
t··················~····--······~
! The Windjammer !Creative Hair Design ND-SMC Theatre announces 78-79 schedule 
• 
:• for the Sexes The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's : Theatre has announced its 1978­~ 1 • A h • 1979 season. The season begins:ne axing tmosp ere: with Preston Jones' Lu Ann Ramp­: : ton Laverty Oberlander, which will Free Hair Analysis : be presented October 6,7,8,11,12, : 13 and 14, followed by Edward : Albee's AD Over on DecemberRK RetaII Center : 1,2,7,8 and 9. Spring's Awakening : by Frank Wedekind will be pre­: sented on March 2,3,8,9 and 10,
1637 LW W : and the season closes with Ampby­So. Bend : trion '79, a jazz-rock musical232-6622 : production of the ancient myth ofAppt. only : Amphytrion and Alkmene. The

································! 
Don't Worry about "Laying an Egg"-Let Us Catch You At GOOSE'S NEST 
SMC Social Commission Presents its 2nd Annual Octoberfest Happy Hour and Gong Show 3-6 pm Friday , October 6 We're Looking for Acts NOW 
Call Nancy, Francie or Sue at 4165 Deadline -MONDAY, OCT. 2, 1978 SO GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER 

with Special Guest. AC/DC 

SATURDAY SEPT. 30 8P.M. 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
festival seating on floor $ 8.50/_ reserved seats S 8.50 and $. 7.SO on sale now at ACC Box office 
All drinks 1/2 price for escorted ladies Pitchers only $1.50 Drafts only 25' 
~ 

. ~u~~" ~~'\0~ "~~,.,~
~# 
myth of Amphytrion has been adapted for the stage by fifty-five playwrights, dating back to the ancient Greeks, which makes it the most dramatized story ever. The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre will present a new version of the story, written by Miles Coiner, and perform it on April 27,28 and May 3,4 and S. All plays will be presented in O'Laughlin Audito­rium on the campus of Saint Mary's College. Performances will begin at 8:00 p.m. Tickets for each production are $2.50 ($2.00 for Notre Dame-Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty and staff) and may be reserved by calling 284-4176. 
Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander is the second play in Preston Jones' A Texas Trilogy. Its world premiere was in February 1974, at The Dallas Theatre Center, with subsequent productions at Washington's Kennedy Center on Broadway. It is the story of Lu Ann Hampton, her family and friends, and life in a small Texas town. The action of the play spans thirty years in the out-of-the-way town of Bradleyville, and is like a nostalgic trip through Americana. The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre pro­duction of Lu Ann Hampton Lav­erty Oberlander will be directed by Julie Jensen. Last season, Julie directed O'Neill's A Touch of the Poet. Jim Casurella, an ND senior, ahs designed an imaginative set in which the performers and audience alike are on the stage at O'Laughlin Auditorium. The audience will surround the performing space on three sides, and a band, perform­ing original and standard country & western music, will surround the fourth side. Music will be per­formed throughout the production. Marie Birou, a Saint Mary's seniro, will be the costumer. Please note that seating for Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander is limited to 170 persons for each performance, so there will be seven perfor­mances instead of the usual five. 
The central character in Edward Albee's All Over is a famous man whose imminent death has sum­moned .the press and public to wait outside his door. Inside, gathered closely around the man we never see, the family and close friends wade in future loss. What will become of them, the Wife, the Mistress, the Best Friend, the Son and the Daughter; what will be­come of them now that the shadow they have been living under begins to fade? Senior Mark Amenta will direct this production. Last year Mark directed Cocteau' s l.es Par­ents Terrlbles for the ND-SMC Theatre Second Scene series. Scenography and costuming for AD Over will be by Jim Houle, also a senior at Notre Dame. 
Written in 1891, by Frank Wede­kind, Spring's Awakening (A Tra­gedy of Childhood) is an early model of expressionism which focuses on young people, making it ideal for a student cast. The story is about classically educated school children who are expected to ignore the emotional and sexual stirrings of adolescence. The play is more than a period piece of 1891 Ger­many because the conflict between the sexual force of teenagers, and their inability to understand, con­trol or channel it, is universal even now. The play has a history of being censored, and was not allowed to be performed until Max Reinhardt produced it in Berlin fifteen years after its publication. Patrick Fanning will serve as director and scenographer for this production. Last year, he directed and designed Genet's The Mmds for the Second Scene series. The costumers for Spring's Awakening will be Diana Hawfield and Lisa Turco. 
The myth of Amphytrion dates back to ancient Greece, and tells of how the god Zeus, disguised as the warrior Amphytrion, came to Earth and spent an evening with the unknowing Alkmene, wife of Amphytrion. At dawn, the real Amphytrion returns home from battle, himself prepared for a warm reunion with Alkmene. The myth has been adapted for the stage by playwrights including Plautus, Moliere, Dryden and Girodoux. The ND-SMC Theatre production of Ampbytrion '79 will be a composite of many of the previous versions, and presented as a jazz­rock: musical. Miles Coiner will be both playwright and director for this production. Last year, he directed The Caucasian Chalk Circle by Berthold Brecht. 
Last day to register for Senior trip 
Today is the last day Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors may register for this year's Senior Class trip. Notre Dame students who have not paid their $235 balance or who have not registered yet may do so from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. SMC stu­dents may register from 6 p.m. to 
8:30 p.m. on the first floor of LeMans. Persons who have not listed enough names to fill a room or a car will be placed with others by the trip chairmen if they do not register the needed names tonight. 
Manv victims from plane crash were employees of airlines 
SAN DIEGO [APt· N~arly a tourth of t.he 150 persons .kt~led ~hen a ~actfic. Southwest Atrhnes Jet coli­tded wtth a small plane wo~ked for :.sA-a. compan~ on~. official calls 
a fa!'?dy operation. 
Everybody knows everybody else · · · · ,It sounds phof!y • ,1, know • b5 ~t 'Ye ve ~ost famW: r DoRn
1
lf!10D1an, asststa~t to I tam . · Shtmp! PSA prestd.ent and chtef execu~tve ?fficer_. sat~ Tuesday. 
Stmontan satd Sht~~· who sent 
telegrams to the famtlies of the dead employees within hours of the crash, "knew a lot of these personally. You see, he worked his way up through the ranks.'' 
The company employs 3,500 per-sm~ll p!ane and crashed into a restdenttal area Monday, 37 were PSA employees. Seven of them made up the crew. 
Everyone aboard Flight 182, a Sacramento-to-Los Angeles-to-San Diego commuter trip, was killed, as were both persons in the light plane. At least 13 persons on the 
~round died. .._ . 
The crash was the worst in U.S. aviation history and was also PSA's first fatal accident in its 29-year history. 
Simonian said since Flight 182 is the first PSA plane to leave Sacramento in the morning, it normally carries a large number of "deadheads" -non-working flight attendants and cockpit personnel returning to PSA' s home office in San Diego, where all such crews 
are based. On Monday, the free riders included three pilots, one first officer, two second officers and 12 flight attendants. 

sons. Prof. David link, Dean of ~ the 135 persons aboard the' Notre Dame's Law School Boemg 727 that collided with a will give a lecture and 
Scholastic conduct a discussi<!n
• f Thurs. at 7 p.m. 1n apoIOQIZes or Howard Hall. The subject d I• • of his talk is '•How ToIate e IVerleS Prepare For And Get Into The editorial board of Scholastic Law School". Interested would like to offer an apology to the students . are invit~ ~o Notre Dame community for the att~nd thas event whach as faulty distribution of the Sept. 23 bemg sponsored by issue of the magazine. Howard's Academic-
The distribution vehicle broke Cultural Commission . down in the middle of its rounds and the North Quad and LaFortune received their magazines while the South Quad went without until 

Sunday· PROFESSOR DAVID LINK 

~·····································································································~ 
•
• 
•
•
•

ldea!i·forinve§t:Dr!i. • 
RONrr&coA 

•

SUITE 1239 ST. JOE BANK BLDG. • SOUTH BEND. IN 46601 • 219/234-1056 ELKHART • 679·4913 
ESTABLISHED 1926 • MEMl ~R: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC. 

•J.mes Denting ·•Frad Klhn 

..."~'-"---------------------.... ,...................... . :
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••r 


Sally luna [right] is the first lay person to join the NO Campus Ministry. She will act as co-ordinator of the catechumenate program. (Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
Snite Museum of Art addition 
progresses with success 
by Tom McSteen 
artists include Picasso, ChagalJ, the most exciting places on Degas, Rembrandt and Remington. campus," Porter noted.
Construction on the Snite In addition to exhibition space, Porter stressed the need forMuseum of Art, an addition to the 
the building will house a print and increased student involvement inNotre Dame Art Gallery, is well drawing study room, a library, a museum activities. "Ifthe museumunderway, with its completion date conference room and an auditorium is to be a success, we must havetentatively scheduled for later this for the Fine and Performing Arts. increased interest by the students,year, according to Prof. Dean Porter expects that the most especially from non-art majors,Porter, gallery director. ''The popular section of the museum wil1 such as math and engineeringFront Door of the Campus'', as the be the Gallery for the Art of the majors," he said. 
museum is referred to by its staff, Americas. The first part of the Porter also looks to increased
will be located adjacent to 
gallery will feature art of native interest from the faculty and Mich­O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Americans with some pieces dating iana residents. 
Porter, gallery director for the from the birth of Christ. The In an effort to increase studentpast four years, is pleased with the second part will cover the art of the awareness, Charles Geoffrin,progress of the addition. "I could new Americans, beginning with administrative assistant to the not be happier. I'm happy for the Colonial America and culminating director, wilJ distribute a question­gallery and for the University. The with the art of the Southwest and naire to a percentage of theUniversity will now have a great 
West. students, faculty and Michianamuseum," he said. 
"We feel we ·have lart) of residents in the near future. The"As to the opening of the interest for everybody. Also, this questionnaire will serve as a museum, it is not known at this museum has the opportunity to medium of communication between time whether we will have a grand hecome a cultural center and one of the museum and its community. 
opening or open a gallery at a 
time," Porter added. 
United Way Campaign 
The primary funding of the museum, which will encompass 
sets goal for contributions 
54,000 square feet, will consist of a by Mark Perry
$2 million grant from the Snite This is $6,000 more than last year'sfamily of Chicago. In addition, the Staff Reporter goal which was exceeded by museum has a goal of a $4 million $3,000.Increased participation is the
endownment as part of the $132 ''This year we are coordinating
major goal of this year's United
million Campaign for Notte Dame. student, faculty, and staff partici­According to Porter, the museum Way campaign at Notre Dame, pation in the program," Dasch bach 
will offer the gallery adequate scheduled from Oct. 1-5, according 
said. He met on Monday with space for the permanent display of to Jim Daschbach, professor of representatives from each of these 
a large portion of its holdings. aerospace and mechanical areas to outline the fund-raising"We are sitting on a collecton of engineering and chairman for the goals for the charity group. 
over 7,000 pieces, valued in excess fun-raising activity. Contributions by students may
of $10 million. We just haven't had ''We hope to get at least 55 be made through dorm section 
the display space in the past," he percent participation in this year's 
leaders. Faculty and staff 
stated. donations," Daschbach said. This 
members may contribute by
Included in the collection are figure would mark a ten percent signing pledge cards which will 
pieces from virtually all the media improvement over last year's con­cause theirdonationsto be deductedtributions.
including painting, sculpture, from their payroll checks drawing, graphics, photography, Daschbach stated that they have Tom Soma and Bro. Josephceramics and textiles. Featured set their monetary goal at $66,000. McTaggart, assistant campaign chairmen, met with the Hall Presi­dent's Council last week to begin their contact with the students. Meetings with the University staff, including a movie outlining the United Way, are planned for next week. Faculty members will be contacted through campus mail. Daschbach also noted that 23 out of the 34 United Way agencies in the Michiana area have helped people from Notre Dame or their families through the various 

programs which are supported by
the United Way. Anyone interested in working on
the United Way Campaign should 
3479 149
~~:~se~~~n.Soma < >. Arts and Letters positions open

fhe Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council is accepting ap­plications for student positions on the College Council of the College of Arts and Letters. 
The College Council is composed of five student representatives, the dean of the college, associate and assistant deans, the chairmen of all departments and elected repre­sentatives of the college faculty. The College Council reviews the policies, practices and procedures of the College of Arts aad Letters. 

Wednesday, September 27, 1978 the observer 
First lay member joins Campus Ministry staff 
by Diane P. Cuey from high school, wher students 
are so bubbly about everything. 
Sally Luna, the first lay female But I thoroughly enjoy working Dean of Students at St. Bonaven­with college students while they're ture's in New York, is the first lay integrating personal and spiritual person on the Campus Ministry growth." . staff. She replaced Kevin Kearney Luna said she was attracted to this fall as coordinator of the Notre Dame because of both the University's catechumenate size, which is large compared to St. program. Bonaventure's total enrollment of 
The catechumenate program 2,000, and the diversity of experi­provides individual instuction in ence on the Campus Ministry staff. Catholicism for people who want to "Each member of the staff has be baptized, confirmed, or learn had a great deal of experience in more about the religion. different areas of ministry, and I 
Luna, "over forty" and just know I can learn from all of them," starting her third career, held a Luna said. number of other administrative "I was also impressed by the positions at St. Bonaventure's over number of theology and ministry a period of twelve years. professionals on the campus,'' 
Her previous work in the campus Luna said. She is currently ministry field includes help in enrolled in Father Sheedy's "Faith establishing the first ministry and Tradition'' class, which she 
service at St. Bonaventure's. says is basic to her catechumenate 
Luna noted that after ten years of program. teaching high school, she had "Since I've never lived outside of difficulty adjusting to college New York state, com.ing here was a students. big move for me," Luna said, "but 
"At first I thought I'd never I guess I'm always looking for understand college students,'' challenges and opportunities to 
Fr. Hesburgh spoke to Ho11 .. ru ttall students last night. While he spent most of the session answering students' questions he also talked about other campus issues. These included future construdion projects on campus, i.e., the high probability of another tower to house 500 more girls (already approved by the Trustees], and the Campus Fund of Notre Dame which will hopefully be used to hire more top grade professors. [Photo by 

SPRING BREAK FORt -LAUDERDALE 
Holiday. Inn Oceanside March 17 
1 th Heart ·f th tio -March 25
1 n. 8 0 e, aC n!$209 per person quad occupancy 
·
I1 Price Includes: Roundtrip transportation 
I Lodging 
I 
Dlsneyworld tickets
I I make your reservations
I I ...... -~ CALL:hOW 2 96 1
•INi:liANA IVID 1on 3lJS .l~!!~~:!'!C:!c:.A:~!.'!!'~::~'!!'.;_:~~~ •• ~-1I
. . . . . . 1 

f 
l 
I Wednesday, September 27, 1978 
6 the observer -
SeniorCiass to raffle one 
Southern Cal. trip package 
by Gregory Solman 
The Senior Class will raffle one Senior Class trip package in order to help balance the class budget and give a senior who cannot afford the trip an opportunity to win one, according to Jerry Castellini, class president. 
He also pointed out that the raffle will offer a Senior who has already purchased a package the chance to a $285 refund. 
One-dollar raffle tickets will be sold to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors through each Senior Class Advisory Council representa­tive at Senior Bar. The winning ticket will be drawn at Senior Bar on Oct. 12. 

• 
John Reid, director of student activities, approved the raffle yes­terday. He stated that "the money will be placed back into the Senior Class account and turned back to 
the students through other activi­ties." 
explained that the money will help 
to balance the class budget. 
"We took over a big deficit when 
we started in office last April. 
We're now trying to make a 
comeback into the black," he said. 
Fair estimates that the class 
''will have broken even by the 
middle of October'' if the :qffie 
shows a "good" profit. 
"We're not trying to solelt make 
money off of the class, as such," 
Castellini stressed, a~ding, "Up 
until now, the events we have held 

have simply broken even. For this 
reason, we haven't yet come out of 
the hole, and we have to do something to make money.'' 
According to Castellini, this 

year's Senior Class is taking more 
people on the Southern California 
trip than any previous class. 
"Over 800 people have signed up 

already, and in 1977 they only took 
a total of 704 seniors," he noted. 
·A Senior Class trip package 
includes a ticket to the Nov. 25 
1-~-~~~~~=~.:i-i.t.~Lt Notre Dame/USC game, airfare to
and from California, hotel accomo-

NYSIDE 
BEVERAGES 


dations from Nov. 22 to 26 and car rental to be shared with three other seniors. 
Business seminar to discuss films 
The International Business 

Committee of the College of Busi­
ness Administration and AIESEC 
will sponsor a discussion seminar 
on the Third World Film Festival 
tonight at 7 p.m. in room 124, 
Hayes-Healy. The topic will be 
Africa as protrayed in the films 
"Black and White in Color," "The 
Last Grave at Dimbazi,'' and 
"Nuer." 
Panel members will be Prof. 

Joseph Scott from the Department 
of Sociology and Prof. Oscar 
Brookins from the Department of 
Economics. All students and 
faculty are invited to attend. 
Skydivers to meet 
and Notre Dame Student Union Present 
A Spectacular Homecoming Event ttRust Never Sleeps" an evening with-­
Neil ):oung 
Crazy Horse 
Thurs, Oct. 12 Spm Notre Dame ACC 
All seats reserved $8.50 $7.50 on sale now at: ACC Box Office, 
First Bank Main Branch, Robertson's-South Bend and Elkhart, St. Joe Bank & Branches, Boogie Records, River City Records, Just for the Record, Suspended Cord and Elkhart Truth in Elkhart, Record Joint ir:t Niles 
-
-0
c:
-
'i 
:E 
-0 
a 
.1: 
i " 
,. 
.a 


Y~S WITH OUR EASY LESSONS 

Continuinq course for eng1neers begins tonight 
A continuing education course 
for practicing engineers, "Com­
mercial and Industrial Power Dist­
ribution," has been scheduled for 
11 Wednesday evenings beginning 
tonight in Notre Dame's Center for 
Continuing Education. 
The Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers, Inc., in 
cooperation with Purdue University 
School of Engineering, Indianapo­
lis, is sponsoring the two-way 
communication course on 15 cam­
puses in the state. 
In-Plant electric power systems 
and the selection of electrical 
distribution, components and tech­
niques will be featured in the 
closed circuit television course. 
The two-way communication 
system will provide for questions 
from students optional problems 
will be assigned with solution 
sheets provided at the following 
meeting. 
An enrollment fee of S125 for the 
22-hour course, to be offered 8 to 
10 p.m. through December 13 with 
the exception of November 22, 
includes extensive text and other 
course materials. A certificate will 
be presented upon course comple­
tion. 
Additional information on parti­
cipation in the Notre Dame section 
may be obtained by contacting Dick 
Saba, regional director, or Steven 
A. Magdzinski, television coordi­nator, at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Answers for yesterday's puzzle 


collegiate crossword 

(S) Edward Julius, 1978 Collegiate CW78-10 
46 "-Rosenkavalier"ll "I Got-in ACROSS 47 First lady Kalamazoo" 1 Executive privilege 48 Strong coffee 12 Where Hempstead is 11 Put----on 51 Weighed the con-(2 wds.) (cover up) tainer 13 Earnest prompting 15 Amelia Earhart, and 53 Asta, to Nick 14 Post-office office 
others 16 Auctioneer's last word 17 Road part 
( 2 wds. ) 18 Celestial handle 19 Composer of Johnny 
Carson's theme 20 Type of poodle 21 Freezing 22 Impudence 26 Cuba or Aruba 
(abbr.) 27 Rob 30 Actor Beatty 31 Pacino and Martino 32 Sault-Marie 33 Green, as tomatoes 35 Small gathering 37 Opera part 38 Marie, to Donny 39 Intended 40 Weather forecast 42 Medium session 43 Author Deighton 44 Musical syllable 45 Pro 
Charles  (2 wds.)  
54 Cried  21  Takers  for granted  
58 "Step  - !"  23  Like  some  people's  
59  DDT  and OMPA  hair  
62 Opposite of "da"  24  Sandra  
63  Rural  street decor  25  "Reduce Speed"  
(2 wds.)  27  Mr.  America's  con­ 
64 Mitigate  cern  {2 wds.)  
65  Constrictive sub­ 28  Chekhov play  
stance  (2 wds.)  
29  Vegetations  
DOWN  34 Balin  or  Claire  
35  Mr.  Young  
1 South  American  36  Pod occupant  
rodent  38 Certain  turtles  
2 Break  - 41  Tax agency  
3 Howe's milieu  42  "-your old man"  

.......................................................--------------------------~' 
4 Its capital is Doha 45 Shackle 5 Salt Lake City 49 Bowling button co11 eg ian 50 Being in debt 6 Like some verbs 52 Feminine ending 
(abbr.} 55 Onetime Mrs. Kovacs 7 Drifted, as sand 56 Ivy league school 8 He was tied to a 57 N.C.O. (abbr.) 
wheel in Hades 59 School organization 9 Decade (2 wds.) 60 Sino-Soviet river 10 Suffix for Siam 61 Prefix: motion 


Wednesday, September 27t 1978 the observer 7 
WASHINGTON [AP] • To the little bigger than a quarter, could coin to honor the fonner school Frmklin, for a time part of the
House approves applause offeminists,~the Treasury be in circulation by mid-1979. The teacher who led the drive for design. of the half-dollar, was the and vending machine operators, Treasurey says 500 million of the women's voting rights in the 1870s. first. the House gave final congressional coins could be minted by then. Miss Anthony died in 1906, 14
Anthony 
approval yesterday to the introduc-The dollar bill will continue to be years before her cause triumphed The Treasury promoted the coin tion of a new small dollar coin produced, but the Treasury hopes with ratification of the 19th as an ecomony measure, since one on new bearing the likeness of peoneer many will be displaced by the Amendment to the Constitution. coin will outlast manv dollar bills. suffragette Susan B. Anthony. Anthony dollar. Susan B. Anthony thus becomes The 368-38 House vote sent the When plans for a new dollar coin the first real woman and the second Vending machine interests said
dollar coin 
Senate-approved measure to Presi-were first discussed, individual actual person, other than a presi-the coin would enable them to dent Carter for certain signature. women and feminist organizations dent, to be pictured on a U.S. coin broaden . their range of The new coin, which will be a mounted a campaign to use the for eeneral circulation. Beniamin merchandise.
,.................................................·-·-·············:~·:·~~··········~ 
fDlL~l:}l:l) aFJJ!EID iill)l:l <DrL~l:ll:l) aFJJ!EW &\riD~ <DrL£~~ro rJ omw -illiD~: 
WANTED DOES YOUR WARDROBE HAVE THE Goof, : . . Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets. NOTICES BACK TO SCHOOL BLUES? Dress It up Do you know that we haven't been to the t Wanted: 2 Purdue t1x, call H1ggs 4578. Chuck 28!Hi721. with 14-18 K fine gold jewelry! Call tressle yet this year? You nut! t 
need GA Miami tickets NOT TYPING DONE MY HOME. FAST-Marilyn for adisplay of exquisite chains, Macadamian +
1 5 

i 
.j Want tix to Pitt, Tennessee. Call Steve NECESSARILY ALL TOGETHE~.. Call ACCURATE-REASONABLE. CLOSE TO bracelets, rings, etc... 3848. t + 1478. John at 1991 _ CAMPUS. 272-7866. The devoted Ch Eg of Lewis Hall is t + . . NO faculty m~mber sell ling 1970 Chrysler having abirthday today. Don't you think t Need GA P1tt t1x. Call Armand 1484. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Excell. runmng cond. Roomy. $850, it calls for a celebration of some sort? +
HELP WANTED L • h f 
Statl'on attendant needed. \.Experience Society for Jungian/Archetypal Psycho!-288-6013. et sputt e books down or a while, and t
Help me prove to my father the YALE s d o t be 1 7 30 wish Jan a happy b-day.
grad that we can play football too! Need preferred. Evenings and weekends. ~~son ~;m~ons.c o r , : p.m. Hafner (mcCartney) Bass Guitar; almost + 2 GA Purdue tixs. Call Bill at 1763. Apply In person. Mike's Maple Lane brand new. 288-6013. It's Laking Time Agalnll Happy t t Amoco 18492 St. Rd. 23· Mink coat 36", professionally appraised. birthday Janet Caruso. t 
+ Need many Purdue tickets. (sorry: GA's 277-5828, 283-6558. Office G-221 t 
+only for all you pessimists) Call1419. Desperately need 2 GA tickets for Memorial Library. PERSONALS Janet t The money will be as good as the tickets. Tennessee and 5 others for any home we wish you a happy birthday and a + Ask for Joe or Ralph. game. Call John at 6934· Boardillg tor geldings and mares, cover-Hi Tracy and Cathy, fantastic 20th year. Too bad we can't • 
My in-laws will be here tor Purdue game. Needed: Purdue tickets!! Call 5754, Sue. ed arena, use of trails one mile from ~~~~~~:l~~\J'~~·rov!il~e e~'::r: .. ~o celebrate in the "Big Apple." Guess • Need 2 GA or student tickets. Call Pay bucks. Notre Dame. Have a Good Day! we'll have to settle for second (?) best. t 272-5626 before 10 pm. Scoop (Or Is that worst?) • 
Need 1or 2GA Purdue tickets. Money no Gardeners: Excellent horse manure, free PS-Sorry 1missed your Birthday, Cathy. Janet c. t 
•. Need 1 Purdue Student or GA ticket! Problem. Call Tom 3010. for loan of truck, one mile from Notre PPS-Both of you come to the section party Happy birthday roomie! Just remember t 
+ Please. Call Linda 4-1-4614. Dame. Friday nite! not to get the carpet all wet when you t
Need Student ticket for Purdue. Will pay 
come in from the lake tonight. Thanks. +
i 
NEED TWO GA TICKETS TO well3508. Toots,
Special Discount to all NO and SMC
TENNESSEE. CALL TONY 6718. Better study hard. Friday will be here 
•

students on automotive parts. All you -Sk-ip_pe_r_&_F-red-dy_ha_v_e_d_a-te-s-,0-r-t-he •.
I need 4 Purdue GA tickets $$$. call before you know lt. 
1786. need us your ID card.
+ Need two GA Purdue and Miami tickets. Homecoming Dance. Do you? t
Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric
Call Joan 1293. Hey Mills,
1101 E. Madison
Need 7 GA's for Tennessee. Call Bill Write any "Dear John" letters lately? Guess Who's birthday it is toda~ Happy t
So. Bend
Wanted: Purdue GA tix-Big Bucks 8604. Oklahomans never were too bright. B-elay to Michael J. Venemous cutthroat, • 
available. Call Chris 4578. Roses are red but Rooneys are blue. snake in the grass, pig, stoker, domer, t
Episcopalians: Anglican Eucharist offer­
BIG MONEY MURF needs Purdue and expedient, slob, necro Fletcher. +
ed Wednesdays 3:30 P.M., Grace Hall
Desperately need 2GA Tennessee tickets Pitt tickets. Call after 5:00. 234-8858. Beth Adams and Mardi Nevin, Guess who from? +
Chapel.

Call Jay 234-2329. You guys are weird. I mean you are 
Help I need Purdue tickets!! Call Anne -------------------· 
really weird!! Wolfman t
CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on
Need 2or 4GA Purdue tix. Will pay$$$. 4236. your normal friend Your howl is great. We can't wait until·~
brand name hard or soft lens supplies.
Call Tim 288-2773. PS-I know you get a kick out of this the next full moon!!
Send for tree illustrated catalog. Contact
Must havef. 2-4 GA Pitt tickets. Susan 4of the mini-moons
Lens Supplied, Box 7453, Phoenix,
I need 2 GA tix to Miami. Call Bill 3169. 4-1-4407. Miss "M.B. Barrett,
Arizona 85011. 
•

Second City was definitely afirst for me. (Hey, isn't that Mary Barbara Heffernan 
Wealthy father needs 2-4 GA's for Wanted: one student football ticket for You are really a "Golden Bear". I'd love on the cover of this week's Scholastic?
TDDAY'S GOODY DAYI
Purdue. Call Mark 8605. Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243. to do it again sometime. It really was an I'd know those legs anyw~ere!)
High-tail It over to the Dancin' Irish 
1

honor.
Bake Sale at Lunchtime in the LaFortune
Need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Call John Addreuen Wanted Immediately! Work The Kidnapper Tennis & Racquetball Rackets strung+
with your piggy-banks cuz those mouth­
234-1821. at home-no experience necauary-ex­professionally at affordable price. Joe+
watering treats are just waiting to be
callent pay. Write American Service, To Dan and the 10A Singers: Montroy, 1469. +
gobbled up! (11 til they're gone)
Need 1-3 GA tickets for Purdue. Call Jim 8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX Your sweethearts are practicing hard. 
6939. 75231. Have you started to pack your suitcases
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
yet? Practice makes perfect-we'd better Klddo; 
•

Student Loans $20-$150. 1 percent
I need 4 GA Purdue tickets. I can't pay Need GA tix for Purdue & Pitt. Joe 1478. hop to it. Happy 8-Day one day late! Remember,
interest due in 30 days. 1 day wait.
alot, but will listen to all offers. I'd Regina Sisters Fri. Good Times ILY.
LaFortune Basement M-F 11 :30-12:30.
appreciate· any help, thanks, John Wanted: GA tix to Tennessee. Call Eric A.B. 
(283) 1044 1384. Mary Buddy,
Typist will so typing. Neat, accurate. 
(Besser Spaet Als Nie) Alles gute zum Coming Soon-bu
Reasonable rates. Call: 287-5162.
Need 2or 4GA tix for Purdue. Mike 1610 Please! Family coming to Purdue game. geburtstag ihr verrueckter freund. 
Need 4 tix. ·Leslie 5347. What is an urban Plunge?
Get happy Friday at Pandora's Inaugural
i 
Need GA tickets for Purdue. Call 8685. I feel left out. Something very much worth looking into.
Happy Hour. 1/2 price special on used
Need GA's to Pitt. Money no object!! 
books from 3-6 p.m. Pandora's 233-2342.
I need one student Purdue ticket. Ask for Call Tom 277-1071. The 911 club wishes to thank all those Anyone wishing to become a fly woman 
John 1044. FOR RENT who don't care anyway. Be there Friday! call Marie 5438. 
WILL PAY Ill. Need Purdue tickets (GA) + Need two GA tickets to Pitt game. Call Call Bob at Self Storage: 100 sq. ft. & up. Special Margie The donunana team of the week award + + Pete 1460. I'm almost finished with ~our stool for the • -goes to Dorothr & Mo. No one else even +
group student rates. 3001 US 31 -Niles
Wanted: 2-4 GA tix tor Purdue. Please 
684-4880, 684-2895. production room. What color would you thought o modeling
help! I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731. farm. 255-3325. Your un-short friend,
iNeeding Purdue tix for family just off the like it painted? cl?ai 
LOST & FOUND Janet Caruso;
HELP WANTED 
Scoop 
Happy Birthday! We would"make such a
AnastasiOI Restaurant 1611 S. Main St.
BIG BUCKS!! Need 2 GA's for Purdue. 
Found: 1student season football ticket. 
perfect fit.
iCall Walt 1586. Call: 234-3258. Welcome ND·SMC 
Call and identify 3441. Lee Smolen·-D .A. P. Your "little" brother
Students!I 

From 5-A Flanner Wanted: 2GA tickets for Purdue game. 
Found: pair of glasses behind Stepan Wa~ted: 2GA tickets to Pittsburgh. Callt:Need 2GA Purdue tickets for Boss. Call
+ Call Mike 7838. • Don 1384. Center. Photo-gray with brown frames. Toots, Nick collect at (315) 457-5586. :
.-------------------Better study hard.
Contact the Observer and identify them Friday will be here• Wanted: 2or 4 GA tickets for any home 
and they're yours again. before you know it
+ football game. Call Mike 7838. Desperately need 4 GA tix tor Pitt game. Will pay top $. Call Mike 8422. Mardi,
Found: one pair of Dr. Scholl's at Sr. Okeedokee, 
It's great typing your name and causing
: Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call 
Picnic on Friday Sept. 8. Call Barb 7953. Love that memo board.
+ 
Herman 3549. wanted: Experienced male or female you all sorts of embarrassment. I mean, Bartenders, Waiters or Waitresses. also lots of people are going to see this

+ 
Need 4GA Purdue tickets. Call Jeananne Dishwashers at the University Club. on walkway front personal and know who 1111rdl Is.


Found: Women's Gold band ring with Marie,
inscription In of Is that any way to treat your brother?
i 
6561. Come in person or call 7093. your adoring roommate
Madeleva on Wednesday, Sept. 13. Call Donny 7823 (Andrea) & identify.
Need 1 Purdue ticket, Student or GA. 
I need GA's or Student tickets for Purdue
Please call Jeff at 1000. Will Pay $$. 
game. Please help! Call Mike 1219. Lost: Parker fountain pen. Silver with gold point and clip. Call1693. Reward.
II will pay someone excellent money for 2 
I need 2 GA Purdue tix. Will pay your 
classified ad rates
Purdue GA's. Call me now at 8518. 
price. Call Russ at 8n2. Found: 1 calculator In 117 Hager Hall. Turned into L&F in Ad. Bldg.
Need 2 GA Pitt tix badly-r.all Ken 
Help! Need 2 Purdue Student tickets. RATES.
i 
289-8657. 
Call Jeff at 1735. Lost: Texas Instrument SR-51 Calculator. Call Karen 4692 SMC.
Wanted: 2 Purdue GA's for my parents, 
Need Purdue tix, Student or GA. Call 
NUMBER OF DAYS
who think I already have them. Call Brad 
1842. Lost: light blue warmup jacket In front of
+at 3504. Morrissey Hall. If found please call 3679. 
1 2 3 4 5
Need 4 GA's to any home game. $$. 
+ I need 2 Purdue student tickets. Call Andy 289-9498. 
Lost: yellow and bleak umbrella in South
t John at 1991. .,
Dining Hall 272-1204. 
Needed: 2 GA tickets for the Pittsburgh Q 1-10 1.00 1.30 1.75 2.00 2.25 
' : Want Pitt GA tix. Call Herman 1398. 
game. Please call Marie before 9am or Lost: gold bracelet in or around NO Math a: 11-15 1.40 1.85 2.50 2.80 3.15 
:• 

after 11 pm. 233-6543. Will pay$$$. building. Pat 4-1-5425. ~ 16-20 1.80 2.40 3.25 3.60 -4.05 Sister's Wedding! need ride to Ft. 
Ll. 21-25 2.20 2.95 4.00 4.40 5.10
Wayne Frl 29th early In day. 234-1823, Need GA Purdue tix. Steve 8422. 
0 26-30 2.60 3.50 4.75 5.20 6.15
leave message. 
Mom and Dad desperately need 2Purdue a: 31-35 3.05 4.10 5.55 6.20 7~20 
FOR SALE w 
•i•

My Tennessee kinfolk are coming Nov. tickets. Call Dan 8252. CD 36-40 3.50 4.70 6.35 7.20 8.25 
11. Need 2 GA's and 4-5 more, GA's or ~ 41-45 3.95 5.30 7.15 8.20 9.30
FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS for sale.
Students. Call Chris at 1764. 5 IRA Activists, fresh from the front, ::;) 46-50 4.40 5.90 7.95 9.20 10.35
288-6748.

want to see 2things in lifetimes: freedom z Wanted: tickets to any.. remammg and NO kill Tennessee. 5 GA Tennessee 
'76 MGB, 22,000 miles, under $4000,
home games. Call3498, ask for Marty or or 2 Miami. $$. Call Mike 3596. 
289-9818 or 233-8182.
Mark. Need two GA Purdue tickets. Call Mark '76 Mustang II, V8, 4 speed, stereo, PAYMENT. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either 
Needed: Purdue GA tix, call John 1874. at 6718. 
i

under 4000, 289-9818 or 233-8182. · in person or throuah the mail. 1 LSAT Tutor wanted to teach small Sister & fiance need 2 tickets for 
'75 Mustang II, Machi, V6, 4 speed, DEADLINE. All classified ads must be received by
classes. Excellent pay. Call collect (317) Michigan State. Call Anne 6816. 
stereo, $2400, 289-9818 or 233-8182.
463-7541. 5:00p.m., two days prior to the issue in which the ad Needed Desperately: 2 GA tickets for is to run. The Observer office will acaapt classifieds
'78 Jeep CJ-7 Renegade, 10,000 miles.
Needed Purdue GA tickets call 8432. Purdue. Will pay good bucks. Leslie N\orlday throuah Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m.
289-9818 or 233-8182.
4996. 


---. • • r 
··························~·······················..··························.. 
8 the Observer Wednesday, September 27, 1978 
Boosts record to 5-1 
Notre Dame dumps Valparaiso, 6-5 
by Craig Cbval Sports Writer 
Informed sources have con­firmed that the Boston Red Sox were kidnapped en masse some­time in August and replaced with imposters. Final confirmation came when it was disclosed that the Red Sox, early runaway leaders in the American League East, have been recently playing under the guise of the University of Notre Dame's varsity baseball team. 
There doesn't seem to be any other logical explanation for the 
r. (Tnt success ofthe Irish nine, but I k.10 loach Tom Kelly tried to put his finger on the reason after his squad scored twice in the bottom of the ninth Tuesday to defeat Val­

. paraiso 6-5 for its third straight win. "We have more enthusiasm and more confidence now," said KeUy in comparison with last spring's squad that was, 12-25-1. "No­body's willing to say that we're beat. The players are starting to realize that there are seven or nine innings in a game (seven for double-headers, nine for single games), and that we aren't going to get all the runs back at once." 
Indeed, the Irish seem to have a very firm understanding of that principle. The Irish started the current win streak with a double­header sweep of Xavier Sunday. Third baseman Mark Simendinger delivered game-winning blows in the bottom of the seventh in each game. 

But Tuesday, the 'rish outdid themselves. They spotted the visiting Crusaders a four-run lead after three innings, fought back to tie the score at 4-4 in the sixth, and fell behind once 5-4 in the top of the eight. 
That set the stage for freshman first baseman Henry Valenzuela. With runners on first and second and two out in the bottom of the ninth, Valenzuela lined the first pitch to the fence in right-center­field, tripling home the tying and winning runs. 
The blast made a winner out of Mark Ladd, who pitched five and two-thirds innings in relief of starter Mike Deasey. Ladd surren­dered just one run, which was a result of his own balk. After walking the leadoff hitter in the eighth, Ladd was charged with the violaton. "I had forgotten that there was a runner on first,'' explained the senior right-hander. ''And I switched from the windup to the stretch position without taking my foot off the rubber." 
A single scored Valparaiso's fifth run, and once again the Irish had to play catch-up. 
Notre Dame had tied the score at four with a pair of runs in each of the fifth and sixth innings. Leftfielder Mike Jamieson deli­vered the key hit in the fifth, tripling to deep center to chase home Rick Pullano with Notre Dame's first run. Jamieson then 
scored when Simendinger's blooper into short right field fell in for a double. 

Dan Voellinger knotted the score with one swing of his bat in the home seventh. The junior desig· nated hitter rifled a line drive over the left field fence while freshman centerfielder Dan Szajko was off and running from first base on a hit-and-run. 
Kelly was very pleased with the efforts of Ladd. "Mark makes very good use of what he has," said Kelly. "He isn't an overpowering pitcher, and he knows it, so he gets in front of the hitters and uses his defense." 
Ladd was in command of an excellent curve ball Tuesday, and he didn't hesitate to use it when behind in the count. "I felt really good today," said Ladd. "I love throwing into a strong wind like today, because my curve ball really breaks then." 

Next on tap for the suddenly formidable Irish are single games with Bradley, Friday and Saturday. Both games are slated for Jake Kline Field. 

Irish golfers take Indiana state title 
by Paul Hare Sports Writer 
The University of Notre Dame golf team is the Indiana state golf champion of 1978. ·The six-man squad had a thirty-six hole total score of 758 to win the Indiana Intercollegiate State Champion­ship. The team outshot Purdue and Ball State to gain the title. 

I ~ 
~ 

The match took place on Monday at the State of Indiana Country Oub. Golf coach Noel O'Sullivan calls the course a "tough course 
I. 
'' 
with lots of-water and huge greens." Senior team member Tim Saurs commented that "the course played under the toughest condi­tions I've experienced. The grounds were hard and the greens were in poor shape.'' Fifteen of the. eighteen holes at the dub are obstructed by water. The course has a U.S.G.A. rating of 73.6. 
The team's outstanding perfor­mance was highlighted by the play of Tom McCarthy. The sophomore shot a two-under-par 70 on the first eighteen and came back with a round of 71 to finish at a course­record 141. McCarthy broke the course record by five strokes. Saurs states, "It couldn't hav happened to a nicer guy. He just played some kind of terrific golf." The sophomore only had a 36-hole total of 55 strokes on the putting greens. 
Coach O'Sullivan expressed his feelings about his team's perfor­mance on Monday . ''Tom McCarthy had a super individual day for us in the state meet, but the most gratifying thing was that everyone down to our fifth and sixth man had a hand in the victory.'' 
Besides McCarthy, the Irish golfers placed two others in the top ten. Sophomore Tim Sachek shot a 76-75 for a total of 151 and agained 5th place. Junior David Knee had a 74-78-152, good enough for an 8th place finish. Other scores for the Irish were: Tim Saurs 75-79-152, John Lundgren 81-85-166 and freshman Steve Dillon 88-79-167. 
The match included 16 teams from Indiana with a total of 95 players. Purdue University was the runner-up with a 36-hole total of 760, just two strokes behind the Irish. Ball State University the defending champions, placed third with a 777. The contest was ~haracterized by its shotgun start. 
Saurs siad, "Everybody-got in at jagged times and the match just ended. Our start was the key to our victory." Purdue's Mike Granger was McCarthy's nearest challenger shooting a 147. 
The victory marked Notre Dame's first championship in the state tournament. Saurs comment· ed that, "The win is a result of all the work we put in. We knew it was just a matter of time until we would put it all together, especially with five returning lettermen." 
Coach O'Sullivan feels that the team needs the same kind of team­effort that was shown at the state meet to win again this weekend. A dual match is set for this Sunday against Purdue and the Notre Dame Invitational takes place this Monday. 
Purdue University will attemptto defend its title at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Notre Dame is coming off what Saurs said was "a poor performance" in last year's tournament. The 4-year veteran states, "We're expected to win at our home course. If we can play our type of game, we can alleviate a lot of the pressure.". If the Irish can pull off the victory, they will have finished the fall season undefeated. 
Coach O'Sullivan is very con­fident as his squad prepares for the tournament. ''Getting two more chances to meet Purdue," he says, "is a great way to finish the faiJ season. I'm sure the play will be just as competitive as it was Monday in the state meet. That's exactly what are kids need: to see where they stand. That will be the key for the spring season." 

SMC hockey team Belles tennis team wins 5-4 
loses to Goshen 
by John Calcutt Eiecatlve Editor 
The Saint Mary's field hockey 
earn lost to Goshen College yester­day, 2-0, in a closely contested match. 
Playing at Goshen, the Belles could not capitalize on numerous scoring opportunities throughout the game. Co-captain Mary Tuite commented, "We had a lot of good shots on goal, but we just couldn't come up with a score." 
Goshen scored its first goal just minutes into the game and followed with a second score half way through the closing stanza. 
The Saint Mary's goalie, Bonnie Welsh, prevented another Goshen score when she stopped a penalty 

flick which had resulted after a Saint Mary's defenseman had il­
legally  stopped  the  ball  from  
entering the net.­ 
Last Saturday, the Belles  were  

blanked" 8-0 by Taylor College as the visitors scored six goals in the first half and two in the second. 
Saint Mary's, looking to raise its record to 1-3-1, will meet the Notre Dame field hockey squad this Saturday on the field next to Madaleva Hall at Saint Mary's. Tuite said, "This will probably be the most important game of the season for us, and we're really looking forward to it." 
Lastyear, the Irish defeated the 

Belles 1-0 at Cartier Field. Saturday's eontest is slated to begin at 9 a.m. with the 'B' team game following the first game. 
Tune in WSND (640 AM) tonight 
''Speaking from 11 to midnight for ''Speaking of Sports." Join Paul Stauder, Lou Severino and Frank LaGrotta for a live phone conversation with head
of Sports'' 

football coach, Dan Devine. 
by Anne Davey Sports Writer 
The St. Mary's tennis team came home with a grand victory over Valparaiso, the defending state champions, on Monday night. The match, played at Valparaiso, went down to the wire with the Belles pulling through at S-4. 
The individual scores were as follows: St. Mary's number one singles player, Cindy Schuster, was defeated by Patty Giannes, 6-0,6-2. SMC's number two singles, Ann Daniels, lost in two sets to LeeAnn Berning, 6-1, 6-3. SMC's number three singles, Maureen O'Brien, was beaten by Jean Weil in three sets, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4. , St. Mary's number four, five, and six singles all were victorious with Karen Smith over Dina Johnston, 6-2, 6-1, Terri Bracken over Lisa Huizenger, 6-4, 7-6, and Carmel Maenza over Sue Jenny, 6-1, S-7, 6-4, respec­tively. 
·In the doubles matches, SMC's number. one team of Schuster and Daniels was defeated by Giannes and Berning in two identical set -.cores of 6-2. The number two team for SMC of O'Brien and Smith 
defeated Gust and Sanders, 6-2, 
6-4. Wtth the match tied at 4-4, Bracken and Maenza had an incredible three sets, defeating Harring and Bittman. 6-1, 4-6, 6-1, winning the match for St. Mary's. Kathy Cordes, athletic director and co-coach, commended Terri and Carmel on their fine play when the pressure was on. She was also quoted as saying, ''The girls did a real excellent job and showed real team sportsmanship ·as they worked together to beat last year's defending champion.'' 
As of yesterday, Cordes will be joined by a new co-coach, Karen Grummell. She is replacing Tom Selsor, who has run into many time conflicts. Grummell is a graduate of Purdue University, where she played tennis for four years and captained the team her senior year. She is presently a tennis pro at the Lafayette Tennis Club in South Bend. 



