~~~--~----------~------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
b~q 
·.$' 
Stanford Hall provided a coat pickup service for those who could not get their garments out of 
..(:> 
the check room at the Hurricane party Friday night. See page 3. [photo by Bob Gill] 

McKenna to present CLC proposal 
by Rob Powers dure which the vice-president for has been very cooperative with the October. campus and the problems of off­Staff Reporter Student Affairs must follow relative Council and has been following this McKenna and other student campus students. Two of to legislation from the CLC. procedure, it is necessary that the leaders will meet with the Student McKenna's suggestions to allevi­
A proposal to clarify th-e purpose According to the proposal, the VP proposal be passed, "so that it is Affairs Committee of the Board of ate overcrowding on campus are of the Campus Life Council (CLC) for Student Affairs must either act clear in the future that we have (the Trustees next Thursday to report the immediate construction of a and to define the process which the upon or veto any CLC proposal. In Administration's) accountability." on housing problems, the CLC residence hall to accomodate 300 Administration must follow in deal­the event of a veto, he must state to Van Wolvlear stated last week proposal, and student life. The women, and the conversion of ing with CLC proposals will be the Council the reasons for his that he approves of the proposal. ten-member committee will pre­Brownson and St. Joseph's Halls pr~ented tonight to the CLC. negative decision. The decision He said that it would probably be sent these reports to the entire into undergraduate residences. 
"I thought that the only way may then be appealed to the approved by the board if put up for board at its biannual meeting At its last meeting on May 12, these changes could be made was Provost, and if necessary, to the a vote, since it is the same Friday. Van Wolvlear is an the Board voted to gradually in­through the Board," Andy President of the University. procedure outlined in the Student ex-officio member of the com­crease the number of undergradu­McKenna, Student Body president, Under the proposal, the Consti­Life Council's (SLC) Constitution, mittee. ate women while gradually increas­said. "But after speaking with tution of the CLC would state that which the Board approved in 1977. McKenna said he wi.Il remind the ing undergraduate enrollment, and some of the Trustees, I saw it could the purpose of the CLC is to The CLC replaced the SLC last committe of the overcrowding on [continued on page 5]be accomplished within the Council ''establish through legislation rules itself." However, McKenna added governing student life." that the proposal, if passed tonight McKenna is drafting a set of by the CLC, will be brought before bylaws to this procedure. the board for full discussion on McKenna said last week that 
Kennedy urges adult status 
Friday. while Fr. John Van Wolvlear, The proposal defines the proce-University VP for Student Affairs, NEW YORK [AP) • Sen. Edward legislation. determine which court handles the 
M. Kennedy yesterday urged that Kennedy said juvenile courts case. juveniles who commit violent have failed to rehabilitate violent "Age cannot justify treating the crimes should be treated as adults boys and girls. 17-year-old rapist or murderer and sentenced to "significant "The idea of independent juven­differently from his adult counter­punishment.'' ile courts ... has backfired. There part," Kennedy said. "The poor, 
In a speech to 2,000 law enforce­has been a notorious lack of the black, the elderly -those most 
ment officials at the convention of rehabilitation. The violent juvenile often victimized by crime -do not the International Association of is often let off with a slap on the make such distinctions. Nor should Chiefs of Police, the Massachusetts the courts." Democrat for the first time endors­'slap on the wrist' Like adults, violent juveniles ed recent movements to try juven­should be fingerprinted and their iles accused of violent crimes in wrist," he asserted. Instead, he criminal records shouid be avail­adult courts rather than in the more said; "some significant punish­able to judges at the time of protective atmosphere of juvenile ment should be imposed on the sentencing, Kennedy urged. courts. • young offender who commits a Most states now provide that 
Criminal justice specialists con­violent crime. This should trans­defendants under 18 must be tried sidered Kennedy's relatively hard late into jail in a special juvenile in juvenile courts where the pro­line approach as significant facility for the most serious violent ceedings often are closed and the because of his liberal political offender.'' records kept sealed. That system record and because he takes over Urging that such youths should was devised several decades ago in 
·next year as chairman of the Senate be tried in adult courts, Kennedy an effort to protect teen-agers from Judiciary Committee which said the nature of crime, rather the harshness of a full-fledged handles most federal anti-crime than the defendant's age, should trial. 
Liberals vs. Conservatives 
Activists wrestle taxes 
California voters on June 6 in what burden on taxpayers in ''Taxachus­
WASHINGTON [AP] • Liberal many saw as the beginning of a sets" -so dubbed because its tax activists, facing a heavy sched­taxpayers' revolt. Conservatives property tax rates are among the ule of Proposition 13-style initia­around the country have attempted ·highest in the nation -earned the tives and referenda on Election Day since then to adopt the issue as most attention at the weekend next month, are vowing to wrestle their own. meeting. That is because it has the the tax issue from conservatives. "Tax cutting is not tax reform," backing of liberal labor and com­
Their battle cry is a call for "tax says Byron Dorgan, the North munity groups -the same groups justice," essentially an increase in Dakota tax commissioner. "Tax that opposed Proposition 13 in corporate tax collections and a limitation has nothing to do with California. redistribution of the· tax burden tax justice." The Massachusetts initiative from lower-and middle-income Thus, tax observers are anxious­would authorize the use of differen­families, where property taxes hit ly awaiting the November votes in a tial tax rates, allowing residential hardest, to wealthier taxpayers. least 10 states where tax relief property tax rates to be set lower 
A weekend tax conference con­measures are on the ballot. than commercial rates. vened by the National Conference Proposals range from Proposi­Michael Ansara, head of a · on Alternative State and Local tion 13 look-a-likes in Oregon, citizens' group calling itself Public Policies revealed frustration Idaho and Nevada to measures in Massachusetts Fair Share, said among tax officials faced with Colorado, Arizona and Michigan Saturday that the defeat of Gov. across-the-board tax cuts along the that would impose limits on reven­Michael Dukakis in last month's lines of California's Proposition 13. ues or spending. Democratic primary was due to his 
That proposal was approved by An initiative that would ease the lack of concern over the tax issue. 

the observer Monday, October 9, 1978 
\ 
~On Campus Today _. 
,...News Briefs _____ 
t:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==:::::: w0 rld 
US officials to attend talks 
EGYPT-High-ranking U.S. officials "will be involved at all times" in negotiations that begin this week to complete the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty outlined in the Camp David summit accords, a State Department spokeswoman siad yesterday. Secretary of State Cyrus 
R. Vance will open the talks Thursday at an undisclosed location in Washington. State Department spoleswoman .Kimberly King said Vance "may be called away elsewhere" during the discussions but that several "top American officials" would take part throughout. 
Forces break up protests 
TEHR,AN-Security forces broke up anti-government demonstrations in nine Iranian cities yesterday, a day after a bloody clash between soldiers and protesters in the Caspian..Sea city of Bobol reportedly left one person dead and many other injured. There were no reports of injuries in the demonstrations, most of which involved a few hundred protesters, the Tehran newspaper Ettelaat said. 
Cardinals to study health 
VATICAN CITY-Consideration of age and health will be major factors in the choice of the next leader of the world's 700 million Roman Catholics, cardinals indicated in interviews published yesterday. The Congregation of Cardinals, running the church in the period between popes, took the weekend off for "prayers and meditation'' but informal discussions continued in advance of the secret conclave opening Saturday to elect a successor to Pope John Paul I. 
1= ::-::::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=:== National 
Tax -cut bill to face blocks 
WASHINGTON A Senate proposal to cut federal taxes could face new roadblocks, including a possible filibuster, unless Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd is successful today in limiting debate on the tax-cutting bill. The tax proposal, a version of which already has passed the House, has been bogged down in the Senate over debate on various amendments not directly involving the reduction of 1979 income taxes. 
Guerrillas to accept plan 
NEW YORK Black guerrillas will accept the plan to tum Rhodesia over to majority rule after elections despite their leaders' rejection of the internal settlement that has set up a black-shared transition rule, a black member of the transition government said yesterday. The Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, one of three black Rhodesians sharing power with white Prime Minister Ian Smith pending elections, said the guerrilla leaders know they cannot be elected and therefore "wish to be imposed as the next government." 

Weather 
Partly cloudy and warmer today with a sight chance of showers by. late afternoon. Highs tomorrow in the mid 60s. Becoming mostly cloudy with a 40 percent chance of occasional showers and thundershowers tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the mid 40s. Highs tomorrow in the mid 60s. 
/ 
4:30pm 
5:30pm 
7pm 
7,8 pm 
7, 10:30 pm 
7:30pm 8:15pm 
9:30pm 11 pm 
_ 
address, rev. theodore m. hesburgh's annual faculty 
address, washington hall  
meeting, french dining hall  club,  faculty dining room,  south  
seminar, "introduction to him," all invited,  engr.  

aud. 
movies, warner bros. cartoons & marx bros: shorts, sponsored by student union-homecoming, Ia fortune theatre 
movie, "my fair lady," sponsored by student union-homt>coming, washington hall 
meeting, teacherevaluation forum, 103 o'shag 
concert, chicago symphony string quartet, sponsored by dept. of music, lib. aud., $1 
movie, "the hunchback of notre dame," sponsored by student ur~ion-homecoming, Ia fortune theatre 
discussion, "sex at notre dame," hosted by e. j. eldridge, wsnd-am 640 
midnight album hour, "everybody knows this is nowhere," neil young, wsnd-am 640 






Lectures focus on Mideast 
government. 
The Institute for International Studies, in its present form, is a community program supported by the University. Brinkley said that the curricular function of the organization is to supervise the Area Studies Program at Notre Dame. 
by Cathy Santoro 
The Institute for International 
Studies will sponsor three lectures 
this week by John C. Campbell, 
director of studies for the Council 
on Foreign Relations. The series 
is, entitled "The Great Powers and 
the Middle East,'' will begin 
Tuesday, October 10 at 4 p.m. in 
the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Campbell served as a region specialist for the State Department from 1942 to 1955. As a member of the Council on Foreign Relations since 1955 he has directed research on American foreign policy relative to the Eastern European and Middle Eastern questions. 
Professor George Brinkley, acting director of the Institute for International Studies, judges Campbell • • a leading , authority on the Middle East." Campbell is the author of several books and articles, including • 'Defense of the Middle East," 1960; "The Middle East in the Muted Cold War," 1965, and "The West and the Middle East," 1972. 
The Institute evolved out of the Committee on International Rela­tions, which developed in the 1940's during World War II. This organization was funded by grants from the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations, as well as the federal 

Movies kick off Homecoming 
Joe Guckert, Homecoming Chairman,' announced that Home­coming week festivities will begin this evening with "Monday Night at the Movies." 
Several Warner Brothers car­toons and Marx Brother's shorts will be shown at the Little Theatre in the LaFortune Student Center at 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. These will be followed by a real classic, Tbe Hunchback of Notre Dame at 9:30. 
For those in the mood for something a little more Ioverly, My Fair Lady will be shown twice at Washington Hall, at 7 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m. Admission to all of these showings is free. 
Guckert also advises that stud­dents should start purchasing their tickets for Homecoming Mums and the Homecoming Semi-Formal dance, which will be held Saturday night. These tickets can be purchased at the dining halls during dinner throughout the week. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: Jim Rudd layout Staff: Margaret 
Kruse, Kathy Connelly Editorial Layout: Margie 
Brassil, Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Paul Mullaney Typisb: ;Lisa DiValerio, Kim Convey, Mary McCauley, me Night Controller: Katie Brehl Day Editor: Katie Copy Reader: Mark Rust, Reed King Ad layout: Sue Johnston, Renee Leuchten Photographer: Bob Gill 
The Observer is pllbliahed Mon­oay •hrough Friday exce,.,t during exam and vaution periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a membar of the A11oclatad Prell. All repro­duction rights ara reserved. 



REMINDER: 
All students tutoring in school ~systems must have TB skin tests. 
Tues., Oct. 10 11:30-1:00 ~Off. of Vol. Services, 1.5 Lafortune. ;......................!n.tQ,_ .l;$.Q.IJ.'!........•................. 
r~...................,...~~·.....-. .......~.........~~·._......,.......,.•..,..~ .............~..,., 




~ h \
~ ~·------·----· c 1mes------~·--·-·4 
\,...~.._......,.._......,..~.~~ ............................,..._......,..._._...........................-.--.. __j 
_..._.. _.__.......,.._..~.J 
.  ~  
~  .  
~  now acceptinG manuscRipts  ~  
~  .  
~  ~oR  pusl1cat1on :  . shoRt essays,  ~  
~iplays, ~1ct1on, non-~1ct1on,  poetRy,  ~ ~  
~  ~  
~  photOGRaphy, aRtwORk 0~ all klnbs  ~  
~  ~  
~  max W€stl€R, Rm. 303 maO€l€Va, smc  \  

......~_.._..._.... ___.....,..._............__................._ 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT•OAT· LSAT•GMAT PCAT•GRE•OCAT·VAT· SAT 1MB I, II, Ill·ECFMG·FLEX· VQE 


NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Our Centers & See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
LSAT, GRE,.GMAT~~-H Classes IUIPUIN 
lDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION
now form l•ng 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 11138 

call 291-3150 
Extracurricular functions of the Institute include sponsoring lec­tures, and providing research and travel grants for faculty and stu­dents. The Institute has also published 61 books in their 21 year history and they also keep a reading room with special collec­tions at the Library. 
·,1 I I .1,
·'· 
., 
' 

Sponsors call Hurricane success 
by Laura Larimore Staff Reporter 
Despite several problems, the Hurricane Party held Friday night at the Jefferson Lounge, was termed a success by coordinators Ed Andrle and Christie Little. 
The party was sponsored by Farley and Stanford Halls. 
Party organizers are distributing coats today as a result of one of the party's "problems.• " according to Andrle. When the majority of the party-goers left the affair at 1 a.m. they found the coatroom in a state of confusion. Andrle attempted to move the crowd back from the coatroom to the Lounge ballroom to help facilitate an orderly distribu­tion of coats, but met with little success. Coats were distributed Saturday and yesterday from the Stanford TV lounge to solve the problem. 
"It would have probably been best," Andrle com·mented, "to have not had a coatroom at all, to have ·Jet people be responsible for their own things." He said that he 
SEABROOK, NH [API ·Twenty­three of the 42 protesters arrested here in the latest anti-nuclear energy demostration went on a hunger strike in their jail cells yesterday. 
They turned away trays of food at their cells in Rockingham County Jail in Brentwood and the Hillsboro County Jail in Manchester where they were taken Saturday after refusing to post $100 bail. · 
The other 19 paid their bail. 
Those arrested here were among more than 400 protesters who were taken into custody in three anti­nuclear demonstrations around the nation this weekend. 
The arrests here came after three groups of Boston Clamshell Alli­ance members entered the Sea­brook plant property by scaling· an 8-foot-high fence topped with barbed wire. 
The Seabrook plant has been the site of many other demonstrations and arrests during the last year. And there is speculation· that the Clamshell Alliance, a loosely organized umbrella group of individuals and organizations opposed to nuclear power plants in new England. is planning a "dry run" later this month of a sea­going blockade to prevent nuclear power units from being delivered to the plant. 
Also, in Madison, IN, the last of 31 demonstrators arrested while staging a protest at a nuclear plant site were released yesterday after posting $5600 bond each, Jefferson County authorities said. 
The protesters, members of the felt the lack of cooperation of small 
minority was the major reason for 
the confusion. 
Some damage was reported to 
the property during the course of 
the party and during the aftermath. 
The cost was absorbed by the 
party's sponsors. A few minor 
fighting incidents occurred, which 
were quickly controlled by security 
personnel, Andrle said. 
The party featured the band 
"Free Wheelin"'of Chicago who 
played a varied selection of rock 
from 9 to 1. Beer, included in the 
ticket price, and a cash bar, served 
a crowd of over 1000 people, 
smooth and efficient with a total of 
49 kegs consumed. 
Buses provided transportation from both the ND and from LeMans circles. There were no problems with the system, according the Little. 
Organization of the party went extremely well, both coordinators commented. Cited by Andrle were Tom Sampson and Jim Quinn. Little mentioned Ariane Schallwig and Mary Keleher as important -contributors from Farley. 
Paddlewheel Alliance, were taken into custody Saturday after they climbed a fence around the 1,000­acre construction site of the $3.5 Billion. Marble Hill nuclear power plant. 
Once over the fence, the demon­strators immediately formed small circles and waited to be arrested. 
"There was a lot of reading and talking, but no violence or no­ing," Jefferson County Sherriff Beck Alexander said. "They were all sober and real nice people." 
He said each protester was charged with criminal trespass, which could carry up to a $5,000 fine and a year in prison. The demonstrators were scheduled to be arraigned in Jefferson County Court tomorrow. 
The plant, being built by Public 
Service  Indiana,  is  located  on  a  
Sluff overlooking the  Ohio  River  
about  30  miles  upstream  from  
Louisville, Ky.  

Stanford provides 
lost coat 

pickup service 
Anyone who . lost a coat or sweater at Friday's Hurricane Party may pick it up tonight in the Stanford Hall TV lounge from 6-7:30 p.m. Anyone who accident­ally picked up the wrong jacket should also return it at. this time. 
Financially, the party broke even after the expenses for damages. Tickets were sold out well in advance as a result of the extensive publicity campaign, which reached as far as a mention in the Boston Globe. 
The Hurricane Party had its origins in the old Armory Pary, and was similar in idea to the Bull Moose Party of recent years. Other events of this type planned for the semester include a tentative pre­Bull Mosse in. November, spon­sored by Flanner Hall. 

Power becomes staff reporter 
Rob Powers, a sophomore from Manhasset, New York, has been named a staff reporter for The Observer. Powers is in the College of Arts and Letters. 

Seniors to accept Fellow nomi-nations 
Senior Fellow nominations will be accepted today in both dining halls during dinner, and on the first floor of LaFortune from 12 p.m. to 
1:30 p.m. 


SU reveals clues to find 'Hidden Panther' 
The first four clues of the "Hidden Panther Contest" are as follows: 
1) An oft-quoted line from Shakespeare. 
2) Let's go sailing. 
3) opposite the namesake of 319. 
4) How do you find a panther? 
Those who think they know where the panther is should drop off their guess at the Student Union office. The winner will be picked randomly from the entries of those who guess correctly. 
The prize will be a Homecoming package, consisting of two Pitts­burgh football game tickets, two Neil Young concert tickets, and a ticket for one couple to the Home­coming Dance. 


OCCO'S 
BARBERS 
hairstylists 
531 N. Michil~an 
233-4957 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESJrGN 
Cosima IConnie 
Rose Terry Women 
$ 15.00  I  $11.00 I  
Men  
$11.00  $8.00  

For Ap. Call 
277-1875 
New location 1Next to Old Shop 
18461 St. Rd; 23 
South Bend Ind. 

> .r ~-~ J 
~ 

Tuesday & Wed1esday Oct. 17 & 18 Chicago Stadl•• Good seats are still aYailable at RiYer City Records 01 US 31 Nort~ 
277-4242 
) 

Sunday October 8 8:00 p.m. Wings Stadium -Kalamazoo 'ckets at River City Records, U.S. 31 North only 
BILLY JOEL 
Friday, October 13 -8:00 p.m. 
Chicago Stadium 
tickets at River City Records, U.S. 31 North only 
JETHRO TULL 
Monday October 2J -8:00 p.m. 
Chicago Stadium 
tickets at River City Records, U.S. 31 North only 
THE BEACH BOYS 
Saturday, October 28 -7:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame A.C.C. tickets at both River City Records: U:s. 31 North 
and Western Ave. and all River City Review ticket outlets 
FRANK SINATRA 
Tuesday October 31 -8:00 p.m. 
(Halloween Night!) 
Chicago Stadium 
tickets at River City. Records, U.S. 31 North only 
THE MOODY BLUES 
Friday November 10 -8:00 p.m. Chicago Stadium tickets at River City Re<;ords, U.S. 31 North only 
r----------------------------­
$1.00 OFF! COUPON! 
Any $10.00 album or tape purchase with this coupon. Limit 1. Now thru Oct. 31. Not good on cut-outs, Imports or other sale Items. 
River CIIJ Records 
South Bend's largest record and tape selection and concert ticket headquarters! West 
North 50970 U.S. 31 N. 4626 Western Ave. ( 1 mile south of the Stateline) (Belleville Plaza) 277-4242 287-7272 open 10 to 10, 7 days a week 12-9 Mon-Fri, 10-8 Sat. 
L------------------~~~~~-----­
====P.0. Box Q=;:::::::::: 
Sad experience 
Dear Editor: 
It was a sad experience to re-live the dramatic events seen through "The Battle of Chile". So much hope unfulfilled and thwarted by the stubbomess of politicians, both from the right and left. What, in a m6ment appeared as a real oppor­tunity for the poor people to finally become active in a society in which they preJiously participated only marginally, we see, step by step, being destroyed by ideologies that in the hands of manipulators are transformed into slogans and not into real sharing of a common . destiny. 
The report given to us in the film however, is full of contradictions and misleading statements. I would like to refer to some of them that through my dedication to academic life in Chile and now at Notre Dame make them totally unacceptable. 
The narrator makes the Catho­lic University of Chile appear as an entity aligned with the opposition and implies the same of the Church, which was never the case. The Catholic University of Chile was at the time a reformed univer­sity where, because of its declared catholicity, the concepts of pluralism, democracy and freedom were established and cherished and where all the members of the university community, faculty, students and administrators shared proportionately in its government. The striking copper miners were invited to "camp" inside the main quad of the university by the students, who were in its directive a majority identifying themselves with the opposition. They were not invited by the "University". 
The narrator mentions that Channel 13, the university t.v. system was financed by the Ford Foundation, and American Com­panies; as President of the corpora­tion in charge of the T.V. system at that time (3/70 to II Sept. '73) I can say that we never received funds from Ford Foundation or any other American company for . t. v · purposes nor did the university divert funds from other academic grants for that purpose. 
Patricio Guzman, Frederico Elton and many others appearing on the titles of the film, were graduates or students at the Cath­olic University; the third year group, being the junior year of the School of Communication Arts, 
. Film Department, and the cameras, material and lab where the film was originally processed belonged to the university, who never made any objection, on the contrary, to the known efforts being made to record what every Chilean knew was a critical period in his history. Finally, the Rector of the Catholic 1 University of Chile, Fernando Castillo, when asked why he did not accept a ministerial post with Allende, puts it very clearly in the brief interview that app~ars in the film. "Why always when they propose something good, they must do it against other people. . ." and adds, "With that attitude you only create enemies and every­thing fails". Certainly the present govern­ment has not learned anything from what were the main short­comings of Allende's period. Jaime BeUalta 
Sympathy plus 
Dear Editor: 
The civil war in Nicaragua is a very tragic yet distant affair and our reaction is often only one of sympathy. People claim that it is impossible to determine who is right or wrong. It also seems impossible as a individual to affect the situation. The pervasive atti­tude indicates that the problem will solve itself if left alone long enough or ignored. 
Nicaragua, unfortunately is an example of a country which hasn't been left alone. A recent editorial 

Ga¥J/MN/NG. I'M ROI.ANO BUR.­>CHIRP!::: 'TaV HWl/3'1, Jl?., 1/N[) 7HIIT WAS C4/J}/ TH/3 SC/3N/3 701¥1YAT CAMPOAVI/l­C4W/ S/7E OF JIMMY CAJ('TER'S IJAZ­Zl/NG 51/MMITRY/ 
WHAT Ri3ALLY W/3NT ON PlJRJNG 
7liJSE TH!R7WJ a4YS IN SCPTEM­BtR? JOIN l/5ASABCIA/1/JtPOW OF NE!IIJS TAK£S AN /N-aPTH 
UJOI( AT .. cABIN 
in the Wall Street Journal makes a good anology of U.S. involvement in Nicaragua. "It's as if the U.S. drove the car to the edge of a cliff, announced to the passenger that it had no brakes, then jumped out, yelling over its shoulder, 'you determine your own fate. I don't want anybody to say I interfered.'' 
Whether Americans want to realize it or not, the U.S. has unalterably' meddled in Nicaraguan affairs for a long time. The Somozan government has been 
supporte<l, and sustained by U.S. military· and economic aid since 
The Observer 
~n independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 4&55& 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution The . news is. reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor john Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor~ Editor jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Cales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Cruley Features Editor 
Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production Manager John Tucker Business Manager 
1934. We educated Gen. Somon '-\--------B=ob~R..:..u::.:d::.:y~__..:..A...:.=d..:..ve.::..r..:..t..:..is..:..in..:..g"'-M-'-a-n_ag,e_r____--/1 at West Point and discouraged his Monday, October 9, 1978 political opponents because he 
offered stability. We established American past intervention in the National Guard, trained it, and Nicaragua was the main factor in gave it guns. The economy is determining the reasons leading up bolstered by U.S. direct economic to Nicaragua's present day crisis. assistance and U.S. corporate Americans must recognize her investment, while Somoza's family mistake and now allow Nicara­controls 50-75 per cent of the guans the right to determine their country's wealth. own future. Our eovemment has 
Opinion=========================================================
Zahn1-A Radical Tradition 
We are presently faced with seri­ous challenges to the survival of our Catholic tradition: impious competition, pervasive secularism, wealt religious leadership, sectar­ianism, and maudlin spiritualities. We must now ask ourselves "How can we understand the meaning of universal values and a prophetic tradition which teaches justice, service, truth, and dignity for all so that we can know and transform this wo~ld, instead of passively mirroring all its worst defects?" I suggest that a way to initiate a revival of our tradition is a continu-· ous learning of our history so that we are not condemned to relive our worst moments but can encourage 
the repetition of the best. Lastly, once we have understood our history well, we must evaluate our performance in the light of our best tradition. 
To begin this task of learning and evaluating, I shall look to one man who radically influenced the future of Notre Dame both as a university and as a place where the Gospel speaks forcefully. Only with the confidence that "It is not worth­while remembering that past which cannot become present." (Kierke­gaard) do I look to the life of John Zahm, C.S.C. for inspiration and leadership. 
Zahm was vice-president here from 1885-92. During his tenure Notre Dame grew both physically and intellectually. From the limited curriculum of a prep-school Zahm created programs in science and the arts which were the predecessors of a total university curriculum. Zahm himself was a teacher and "doer" of science, and a well-respected one. His experi­ments and lectures were popular and praised in the press. He was one of the first Catholics to grapple seriously and systematically with the challem~e of Charles Darwin. 
Zahm's book, Evolution and Dogma, which attempted to under­stand evolution within orthodox· Catholic teaching, was put on the Index Llbrorum Prohlbltorum. 
He was an aggressive and intelli­gent supporter of women's rights. His book Women In Science (1913) was a "must" for every woman's suffrage club. Dante inspired him and St. Jerome guided him. 
But while his reputation as a serious teacher and scholar grew, his efforts to improve the quality of the academic life at Notre Dame were often frustrated. Confronted by two problems--lack of qualified men from his own religious com­munity to carry out his ambitious plans, and a popular distrust of advanced education--his efforts to rise above the apathy born of security, were resisted. But he tirelessly fought for his ideal. After losing his position in 1892, and spending five years in Europe, he was appointed to an influential position of leadership. Given his stormy years before, he was anxious about his return. He wrote to his brother: 
It would be indeed a trial for me to return to the dull, humdrum, unintellectual, dwarfing atmosphere where I spent, or rather, wasted the best years of my life. What a pity it is that our people donot realize the necessity o( a higher culture for their mem­bers, especially those who are here to devote their lives to the enabling work of education. With the possibility of one or two exceptions . . . not one at Notre Dame has the faintest conceptions of the wants of a university, and the demands of the age in which we live .... 
He stepped off the train in South Bend and his stru~gle began again. 

He was met by-a community of people, led by Fr. Morrissey, who were content with the security NO enjoyed as a fine college and -were unwilling to accept the risk of self-evaluation and the pain of improvement. His model was so much greater, his goals so much higher than those of his contempo­raries. On the golden jubilee of Fr. Sorin he wrote: 
I love to see in our Notre Dame 
of today the promise of the . 
potency of a Padua or a 
Bologna, or a Bonn or a 
Heidelberg, an Oxford, or a 
Cambridge, a Salamanca or a 
Valladolid. It may be that this 
view will be regarded as one 
proceding from my own enthu­
siasm, but it matters not. I 
consider it to be a compliment 
to be called an enthusiast. 
Tum over the pages of history 
and you will find that all those 
who have left a name and a 
fame have been enthusiasts. 
(1888) 

Zahm's authority and importance come from his vision, a unique combination of the love of dis­covery and the passion for eliciting it from others. His boldness was unpopular; the cabals of his com­munity hen-pecked his ideals until they succeeded in not electing him again. He left his classroom, which he loved as dearly as the Catholic university he helped create, and he never came back. 
The question of the survival and trajectory of our Catholic heritage is not a modern phenomenon, although it has its own urgency. Zahm's life speaks to us directly. He worked unceasingly for the improvement and attainment of his goals. With his vision set on the 
future,  he  could  bring  others  
beyond  the  petty  and  narrow  
concerns of his day.  

Zahm envisioned a olace where 
"saints and scholars" would re­side. In other words, the search for universal truths would continue within the beauty of the revealed Truth of the Gospel. We fear losing our Catholicity because we have ignored and mocked truth by preaching against it. The irony is, however, that by ignoring universal truths and dedicating ourselves to self interest, the Truth of the Gospel has been inadequately passed on and poorly understood. Zahm was totally committed to · creating a Catholic university where discovery of universal values cultivates a philosophical habit of mind and where the Gospel teaches that to feel and to think cannot be developed separately but must be wholly united. 
The challenges to the mere sur­vival of our Catholic tradition can blur our vision of the real goal of continuous improvement. Over­reactions to these challenges retard our growth and plunge creativity to narrow conflicts and petty self­interest. We must be knowledge­able of our best Catholic tradition and use that tradition as a standard by which we constantly evaluate our sincerity and our performance. 
Publius, Jr. 
Erratum 

In the commentary by Michael Berberich printed in Friday's Observer, it was stated that "the vast majority of students who work in the dining halls ... receiving either $2.50 or $2.65.... " The correct figures are $2.50 or $2.56. The difference according to Berberich, is .that most students earn below the minimum wage of $2.65, or there would have been no reason to write the letter in the first place. The Observer regrets the 
error. 
so far been taken in by Somoza's "me or the .Commies" scare tac­tics. It is naive to consider Somoza's opposition in such limited terms. Moderate opposi­tion leaders are responsible for the crippling national strikes. The FSLN has wide support among Nicaragua's exploited masses. Church groups, led by the National Episcopal Conference of Nicaragua and supported by the Presbyterian Council of the Managua Archdio­cese, have asked President Carter to recognize past and current mistakes and now allow Nicara­guan's to determine their own future. The Church group has also called for an immediate withdrawal of all U.S. aid, which supports the current government, "a regime sustained by death." 
Concerned Christians must immediately respond to the situation to express their solidarity with the Nicaraguan people. There is need for immediate aid to the thousands of families made home­less by Somoza's wrath and destruction on defenseless civilian populations. Money can be fun­neled through Church groups who will make sure the money is received directly by the suffering people. Checks and money dona­tions can be endorsed to Martin Garate C.S.C., Latin American Information Service, New York, New York. Money will be collected in South Bend at the Justice and Peace Center, 136 S. Chapin. 
Further action is also necessary in an attempt to prevent a repetition of unwarranted U.S. military. and economic intervention in Nicara­gua. Telegrams and letters should be sent to President Carter demanding economic aid curtail­ment and refusal to support or condone any form of American intervention in Nicaragua. 
The Nicaraguan_civil war should be an incentive for people to alert themselves to the continued struggle of impoverished and oppressed peoples living in "national security" states in the world, where unelectcd military governments continue to subord­inate the democratic aspirations and material well being of the majority to the economic prosperity of a privileged few. 
Michael Fitzsimmons Monday, October 9, 1978 the observer 
___ ..... -­
Install thermostats 
17 halls overhaul heating 
control valves that were installed in by LesUe Brinkley 
all rooms, stairwells, and hallways of the 17 structures will be 
When winter invades the functioning. Notre Dame campus it will encoun­Fr. Jim Riehle, director of Boer­ter the new, efficient heating Conservation and rector of Pang­systems in 17 dormitories installed born Hall, said that the new system as a part of the University's energy may cut past expenses by 33 conservation action. percent. Steam .s used to power 
The general overhaul of the the heating system, and the new heating systems in the older dormi-radiator valves should cut steam 
-tory buildings began three months comsumption by one-third. ago. The new program should be Riehle acknowledged that the completed by December 1, system was used on a trial basis in although heat is now being pro­the basement of Pangborn hall last vided. Eventually, the individual year, and its success prompted the 
McKenna to present CLC with clarification prop-osal 
[continued from page 1] 
to seek funds for a new women's 
dormitory. According to Van 
Wolvlear, the Board might be 
expecting a loan from HUD. He 
added that only some of the 
pledged donors have come through 
with the amount of their pledge. 
McKenna said he will also 
emphasize the poor quality of social 
space on campus. At the May 12 
meeting, the Board voted to 
"direct the University administra­
tion to develop a tangible program 
for creating more social space on 
campus." 
According to McKenna, since 1970 the major portion of HPC funds have gone towards purchas­ing TV's and couches for the halls, which is a "basic asset to improve conditions of social areas. We don't feel the University has made a similar effort, dollar wise, in the same areas. A high student priority should be a high University priority." 
"Students have assumed partial responsiblity for the maintanance and up-dating of social space," Student Body Vice-President Mike Roohan added. "A greater part of the responsibility should be the University's." 
A general report on student life will be given to the committee by McKenna, ROQhan, Judicial Co­ordinator Jayne Rizzo, Student Union Director Bill Roche, HPC Chairman Chuch Delgrande, Andy Herring and Jim Seifert of the CLC, and Off-Campus Commissioner John Fitzpatrick. 
Rizzo will report to the commit­tee on the progress of the newly formed Judicial Council and the increasing student interest in the hall J-boards. She will also present a "redefinition of non-serious parietal violaitons," to be recorded in Du Lac if approved by the CLC tonight. 
After the standing committees of the Baord meet privately on Thurs­day' the entire board will assemble for its biannual meeting on Friday at 9 a.m. in Room 104 of the Center for Continuing Education. Each standing committee will deliver its reports and proposals. Isabel Charles, Dean of the College of ARts and Letters, will give a report on the condition of the college. 
Members of the Student Affairs Committee in addition to Van Wolvlear, include John D. Rocke­feller IV, Fr. Thomas Blantz, Catherine Cleary, Philip Faccenda, 
Anthony  Early,  Paul  Hellmuth,  
Donald  Matthews,  and  Jane  
Pfeiffer.  John  A. Schneider  is  

Chairman. 
SMC Freshman Council plans class activities 
by Tracy Arnold 
The Saint Mary's Freshman Council held its first meeting yesterday at 8 p.m. in the Student Government Room of Regina North. At the meeting, possible activities for the upcoming year were discussed, including ideas for a Freshman Formal athletic events and a class mass. The council will hold a meeting for all freshman on Tuesday, Oct. 17 at 10:30 p.m. in the Regina North Lounge. The meeting will primarily be a ques­tion and answer period. The Council will be open to all sugges­tions. 
The officers of the Council are: Eileen Murphy, Chairman; Nini Stoll and Toni Trigiani, Vice-Chairmen; Jenny Dehner, Secretary; Cindy Jasiewicz, Trea­surer. The commissioners are: Katie Conley, Interhall; Judy Don­nelly, Lynn Van Wassenhaove, and Mary Beth Humenik, Special Events; Kathleen Engler•. ND-SNC Relations; Helen Fuller, Newslet­ter; Ellen Gorman, Publicity; Ellen Hackl, Observer; and Sheila McGahn, Spiritual/Sports. 
The Council meetings are held every Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Student Government Room, Rm. 17 in the basement of Regina North. the meetings are open to all interested students. 
Murphy stressed that attendance at the meeting is important. 
Mary Laverty, director of Student Activities, offered her assistance to the Council. 
80 percent contribute in SMC United Way drive 
by LesUe Griffith 
An estimated eighty percent of Saint Mary's students contributed to last week's United Way drive, drawing in $1205.04 for their efforts. Using the theme, "SMC Makes It Happen", the drive pulled in $400 more than last year. 
"It was a great over-all tum­out,'' declared Maria Frigyesi, United Way chairman for LeMans Hall. "Some dorms were a bit disappointing, but we had a mainly positive response." The annual drive, headed this year by Mary Mulaney, is a week-long effort to raise funds for the St. Joseph County chapter of the United Way. 
A competition between the dorms saw McCandless and Augusta Halls tie for first place, with 100 percent of their students donating. Regina Hall totalled 74 percent while Holy Cross and LeMans each had 65 percent of their students contributing. The winning dorms will receive an ice cream social and their hall names on a special plaque. 
"It was great to see so many people contributing what they could," remarked Mary O'Keefe, Regina chairman. "It's nice to see students concerned with what's going on outside the Saint Mary's community." 
installation of the system in the other campus buildings. 
"Hopefully," Riehle said, "the heating systems in the older class­room buildings will be overhauled sometime in the future." 
The control dials on the thermo­stats in each room are adjustable and can be set from 7-24 degrees Celsius. Automatically, during the night or vacation periods, the thermostat will adjust itself down­
;~~b~iei~~rea~~~:~~nt :;~: 
how the thermostats can be indi­vidually controlled. 
Riehle hopes that students will show "a lot of patience at the beginning to work out possible flaws." Students encountering any problems should contact their rec­tor or call Bill Ganser at 3712. 
Cleveland Club to run bus October break 
A sign-up for the Cleveland Club's October Break Bus will be held at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's this evening. Students may sign up in the lobby of LaFortune or LeMans between 7 and 7:30pm. 
The bus will leave the ND circle at 2 pm. Friday, Oct. 20th and at 
2:15 from the Holy Cross circle at SMC. The bus is tentatively scheduled to return Oct. 27th. 
If there are any questions, call Chris at 1789; Dave at 1553; Cindy at 1363; or Roberta at 4-1-4489. 
"Enjoy an Evening on the AFRICAN QUEEN\\ 
1 Saturday October 14th 9 to 1 
~ 

) ACC Fieldhouse $6.00/couple J r· k 
IJ IC ets on sale starting 
~ 

) October 5th 1in_!he~ qi!Jing Ha!Js ~ 
~:::::::;~~~~:;::2~~~~~:::~::::~~~-~,...~~~~;:::~::::~~::::~-~,_.~ 
I 
1­

w ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 
'Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
presents Preston jones' 
Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander 
October 6,7,8,11,12,13,14 O'Laughlln Auditorium, St. ~·· 8:00p.m. 
For tickets call 284-4176 
Reps. from Diocese of Kansas City's Volunteer Seruice Program will meet with those interested in post-grad or ..year-off" programs, Tues. Oct. to from 9:30-1:00 in Mem. Library Concourse and 24 in 
LeMans Lobby, SMC 
Info, call 7308 Voluntary Seruices. 
} 



0 0 0 0
•

!i's·u~ A~mi~ C~m,;;issi~n presentsD 
NOW MORE THAN EVER 
WHO KILLED JFK ? 
Tuesday, Oct. 10 at 7 pm in Library Aud. 
11

''THE POLITICS OF CONSPIRACY 
Tuesday at 3:30 pm LaFortune Little Theatre 
by Haruey Yazijian 
13 'Get Back 13At·Howard 13 Cosell ~ l3 Night' 
l3 2 pabst /1°0 
Corby's is raffling off a chance to throw 13 a full can of beer thru theT.V. set at Howard 1313 Monday night 6-until final gun 
13

Get Out Your Frustrations!!!!!!!!! 
aaaaaaaaaaaaa 

.~ . 
..• 
t 
Monday, October 9, 1978

the observer 
""'-.. 

tUtORS 0€€0€0 
he Neighborhood Study Help Program needs N.D.-S.M.C. student volunteers to tutor grade school children at the following times: 
MW 12:50-2:15 M 3:45-5:15 * 
MW 2:15-3:15 TT 5:45-7:15 MW 3:30·5:15 TT 6:40·8:20 MW 5:45·7:15 
Involves tutoring Spanish-speaking children All times Include transportation time to/from N.D.-S.M.C. All transportation is provided 
If interested , please contact: Mike Scanlon Laurel Shutrump 4·1-4286 1762 
WE DELIVER 
P•nocchJo's 
PIZZa paRlOR 
Come watch MONDAV NIGHT FOOTBALL on our Four Foot T.v. !! Ir-------------------------,.Pitchers only $1.50 
: 

!I Drafts just 454 !I 
~-------------------------· 
*OUR ptzzas aR€ th€ B€St* 
We're only a mile north of campus in the Georgetown Plaza 
come on tn !! 277-4522 

lty Mka..el Mellaelll 


Now get the best Pizza in ~own delivered right to your door, 
nightly from 6·1 0 pm 
401 N· HICKORY S~E WIDE SCREEN FOOTBALL! TOWN & COUNTRY MALL 272-0945
HAPPY HOURS! Mon.-Fri., 5-7pm
•
Mug of Stroh's or Pabst, just 2sc 
.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••. 
.• . ' •
e Nott• Dam• -St. mary Stud•nta G•t 10% OFF II • 
• • ~ 
: : 
46 Fraternal member 13 Smiles derisively
ACROSS 

47 Mr. Parker 16 Fashion designer 1 Tape recorder 48 Storage place Bill­
: Levi Jeans Lady Levi I 
buttons 49 Geological basin 20 Query 7 Auto section 51 Letters, in Athens 23 Courtroom bodies 14 Treat badly 52 Lungs 26 Gertrude ­
: Sttalght Legs Supet Sttalghta : 15 Beirut's country 53 Repeat 27 Cato and Caesar, 
16 Ranch worker 55 Female fighters e. g. 17 Paint solvent ' 57 Attack (2 wds.) 28 Flippers
: Bell Bottoms Cotdutoy : 18 Fernando -58 Most depressed 30 Auld -Syne 
19 Di sgu1 se 59 Goes hurry-scurry 32 -Beach 21 Great Lakes port 60 Perceives 35 Pygmalion's statue
:Levi Cotdutoy Fashion Tops : 22 To -(exactly) 36 Short socks 
23 Singer White 37 Begins to melt
DOWN

24 Sailor 38 Prayer books 25 Mr. Caesar 1 Like Captain Kidd 39 Fatty:•8e a t..vl man 8e a t..vl Woman i• 26 Golf course hazard 2 California city 40 Slackens 
28 Swamps 3 Arm bones 41 Waste matter 29 Mountain climbers 4 Beer 4? Worship object31 Types of food 5 Compass point . 44 Meadow 33 Onassis, for short 6 Lectures 48 Clothing categories
: The ONLY Place For Jeans 
34 Calendar abbrevi-7 Conflicts 50 In­
ation 8 "011rn!" (stagnating)35 River in India 9 Honest man 51 Boy's school near 38 Type of roof 10 Gratify I.on don 42 Maxwell Smart's dog 11 Imitated Mr. Ed 52 Chess piece
43 Fixing a shoe 12 People of ancient 54 "The Hairy-"45 German article Asia Minor 56 ~·1r. Howard 
: NORTH VILLAGE mALL 
: U.S. 31 North at Darden Rd. Ooen 9-9
•.......~ ...............~···..•·.. 


--------.,..-----------­
-.;--------:~ 
Monday, October 9, 1978 the observer 7 
r-----------------~
I CLASSIFIED ADS I 
I NOTICES I neM 5 GA Miami tickets -not 1 Irish booters tie Spartans
necessarily all together. Call John at 
Free Ice sakting MW F Noon to 1 1991. on the ensuing kickoff and Finne­goal as Cullather had no chance to by Lou Severino 
I 1 
gan slammed a 20-yard shot past make a save on the play.
I Baptist Student Union !JIBBtlngs to start. Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work I the Spartan goalie. The two.ieams After the game co-captain Ted
Sports Writer
I First meeting October 10, 7-8 pm at the at home-no experience necessary ­
played on even terms for the rest of Carnevale tried to pinpoint the
Bulla Shed. Eva~Yone welcome. excellent pay. Write American Service, 1 
regulation which ended tied 1-1. factors involved in the Irish inabili­
8350 Park Lana, Suite 121, Dallas TX 
Morrisey Loan Fund Student Loans 75231 1 EAST LANSING, Mich. • The · Irish goalie Brian Cullather ty to hold the lead. 
1
I I $2D-$150 1percent interest due in 30 days Notre Dame Soccer team all:owed a stopped a penalty kick with just 5 "We really didn't play well one day walt LaFortune basement M-F OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer I full time. I goal in the final minute of overtime minutes left in the game after a enough during the whole game.11:30-12:30 Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. and had to settle for a 2-2 tie controversial call by the referees We performed only in spots com­
All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses I 
against Michigan State in a game gave the Spartans a chance at the mitting too many defensive and
I 
paid siQhtseeing. Free info.-Write: 
played Saturday morning. It was 
go-ahead goal. Cnllather div~d to offensive lapses."
FOR RENT InternatiOnal Job Center, Box 4490-141 
the third consecutive road struggle
Berkeley, CA 94704 his right and deflected the penalty A disappointed Irish coach Rich
I Apartment for rent 2bedrooms. $150 per ------------. in the past week for the Irish, who 
shot off the right goalpost, preser­Hunter echoed the sentiments of 
I month plus utilities. Call Denny Geyer Need 2GA Pitt-tix PLEASE!!! Call Kevin fought back from a 2-0 deficit to 
ving the tie and sending the game Carnevale. "Our team needs
232-1833 or 289-7911 F. #3528 
1

defeat Dayton 4-2, before dropping 
into a pair of ten-minute overtime consistency. We have to play up to 
a 2-1 decision to Goshen on 
periods. The , Irish struck first our capabilities for the entire 90
I Need 4 Tenn. tickets. Call Beth, 4954 I 
Wednesday.
SMC. midway through the second over­minutes. We can't turn it on and
I Please! If anyone picked up a book of ------------I Notre Dabe started strongly 
time as Ted Carnevale dribbled off," said Hunter. 
I student football tlx last Saturday between Desperately need 2 GA Pitt tickets. Will against the Spartans, controlling down the right side and crossed a The tie not only broughtthe Irish
the green field and Enginaarng building, pay. Please call Susan 4-1-4509 or Pat I 
play in the first 20 minutes of the
please call me Margie 4-1-5183 6784 pass-· to Kevin Lovejoy, who record to 10-1-1, but it also dimmed 
game although failing to score. 
rocketed a hard shot past the the booters' chance for an NCAA
1 Found: o;;;'Kir;isis~;;d~;; up jacket -P-Ie-as_e_h_e-lp-,-N-ee_d_2_G_A_P-Itt-ti-ck-e-ts_ca_ll I The Spartans then controlled the MSU goalie. The goal was the bid. According to Hunter, the team In Cavanaugh Call Rick at 1407 Dave 1901 I game for the rest of the first half, 18th of the season for iLovejoy, the absolutely must win all their re­
which ended in a scoreless tie. 
team's leading scorer. The Irish maining games to even be consi­
I1 FOR SALE Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale I Michigan State drew first blood at appeared to have the game won dered for the tournament.
for October break. Will share expenses. 
the 60-minute mark, capitalizing on
I until the final minute, when the With this goal in mind, Notre1970 VW Convertible extra sharp rebuild John 289-9351 some loose defensive play to take aI 
Spartans were awarded a corner Dame will return to action Wednes­I engine and transmission 277-4082 1-0 lead. Notre Dame wa.sted no.Need 3 GA 's and one student ticket for I kick. The ball was crossed to a day afternoon at Manchester 
time in evening up the score as Jim
I /&#? Flat 124 Sports convertible very Pitt. AHAB 8865 . Spartan forward all alone in front of College, before hosting Xavier on 277 4082$ Sabitus passed to Terry Finnegan · Saturday.
good condition throughout -Help! Need 6tickets for ANY home game I the net, and he booted in the tyingI Up to 3 Neil Young padded seats. Call -call Rocco at 1479 I 
I Mark-1863 
1 desperately need 2 GA tickets for the I For sale: ::olor' and Black and White Pittsburgh game. Any Information will be
I photograph of Yes Concert and ND most appreciated. Contact Linda 4-1-4389 Series to begin Tuesday 
I football Call Phil 8992 
Need GA tickets for Pitt. ca." Jerry 3795 1I 
LOS ANGELES [AP]-Baseball's change from last year's script. Monday and could use the DH rule 
I Casperson's Book Shop open Wed. Sat. 
75th anniversary World Series Both teams advanced impres­to keep both of them in the Series
Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. Ageneral Ride needed to Boston or NYC For 
begins Tuesday evening in Los sively, winning their league cham­lineup.
shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-Ottober break. Will,share driving and II 2888. gas. Call Chris 8650. Can Leave Oct. 19 I Angeles with the National League pionship series in four games. The Or, the Dodgers might choose to champion Dodgers facing the Dodgers eliminated Philadelphia use one of the other batters on their 
Wanted: three GA tickets for Miami I
I American League champion New and the Yankees knocked off deep bench that includes pinch­
WANTED 

York Yankees and hoping for a Kansas City, both repeats of last hitting specialists like Lee Lacy, year's pennant playoffs.
I 'SKI INSTUCTORS WANTED. 'Positions Need 1 ticket t9 Young concert on the I who had five pinch homers during 
I 
opened at Royal Valley Ski School, only floor Call Marty 8872 Because Los Angeles and New the regular season, Manny Mota I 
12 miles from Notre dame. Teaching *Observer York both advanced on Saturday, and Vic Davalillo.experience not necessary, must be able to Need several GA Pitt tickets. Please call I the teams will have two days off The Dodgers are healthy for the
sJ<i. First meeting, Oct. 17, 7 p.m. South Tim or Joe at 1850 or 1775. Thanks. 
I 
before the start of the Series. The Series and will present the same
I 
Bend time. (616) 695-3847 Main St.-Bu­
two clubs scheduled workouts at set line-up that charged from
chanan, MI. I need 2 Pitt tickets Call Jim 232-0550 
I sports 
Dodger Stadium for late Monday behind in August to overtake SanI Desperately need two GA tickets to the _Ne_e_d_G_A_P_itt_t_lx_c_a_II_M_.B_._1_293___ 1 afternoon. · 
Francisco and Cincinnati for the NL
1Pittsburgh game. Scott 1624 The opening-game pitchers for West title. the Series figure to be Ed Figueroa, Their cast includes sluggers
~~r~~:~~ :=nt Pitt tickets, please I AeriaI attack
I 
Desperately Need· 7 GA's for Tennessee 
Call Bill 8604 a 20-game winner during the Steve Garvey, the outstanding regular season for the Yankees, player with six extra-base hits inI Help! Idesperately need ride to Texas for ~-;;;;;;;-;;,;;,-;;;-e"'-,;;;;;c;, Ifa IIstoo short and Burt Hooton, who won 19 the NL playoffs, Ron Cey, Reg~ie
I 
break. Will share driving, expenses. Call 
games for the Dodgers. Smith and Dusty Baker.
8598 
Need GA tickets to Pittsburgh game Call I [cont•"nued from page 81 Both right-banders had problems The Yankees also are healthy
Ruth 7136 afternoons 212-3513 evenings 
in their lone starts of the playoffs. except for second baseman Willie
I H_e/p family keep together. Need 2 GA ------------------1·Ferguson 
i40 yards, Jerome 

Figueroa knocked out who out
1Tennessee tickets. Call Slick-1008 Needed: one student ticket to Pitt Call Heavens 91). We really couldnt get was in the Randolph, sat the John 8828 I that big defensive play, like the second inning of Game 2 by Kansas championship series with a pulled
1Need GA Pitt tickets Call 8432 City and charged with the only loss hamstring but insists he will be
third-and-two. We weren't causing
Need two tickets (GA) for Miami game fumbles, and weren't hitting as the Yankees suffered against the ready for the World Series.
I 
Desperate Damsel Deb Desires Dou of 11 1 Pitt tickets. 13352 
Call Joe 0 I hard as usual. We just seemed Royals. New York must decide on 
flat, like everyone was feeling sorry Hooton, staked to a fat early lead Monday whether to activate Ran­I Desperately need GA Pitt tickets, Call Personals I for themselves." in Game 1 against the Phillies, dolph, who was injured Sept. 29. If1Mike 8422 · The consensus feeling was that didn't make it past the fifth inning, they add hirq to the list of eligibles, 
Happy Birthday Cat! I the game was won by the Irish in with the victory going to rookie they likely will drop rookie second 
I 
Please! Need ride to New York City or 
Pat the first half, after which the reliever Bob Welch. baseman Brian Doyle.
Long Island for break; Call Matt 234-2354 
------------I visitors led, 22-6. In the first two A year ago, when the Yankees After Figueroa and Hooton, theI Need 10 Miami GA tickets Call Joe 8588 Bill: I stanzas Notre Dame outgained beat the Dodgers in six games for Dodgers likely are to use left­
Well, hi! (with Intonation) State by 73 yards and /Montana 
the world championship, Figueroa bander Tommy John in Wednes­
Nano
I Desperately need Pitt tickets. Student or I threw for 134 of his 149 yards. He had an injured leaving
did not pitch. day's second game, DonI GA Call Tom 277-1071 "Our effort was absolutely pathe-finger, but was so Sutton to open the New YQrk end of
Kathy, Happy Birthday! You are the only upset at beinggirl In the world fOt me. I Love You. You 1 tic," said Rogers. "But I guess we the Series Friday night. That
passed over that he asked permis­
I 
Need two GA tickets for Tenn. Game. 
are always mine. Cherish my love... it 
should give Notre Dame the credit
Call Robin 4-4330. sion to go home to Puerto Rico would be the same rotation that
will never die. 
I fpr playing well in the first half. before the final game. opposed the Phillies in the playoffs.
Love always, 
They may not think they played
I Need one GA Pitt tix. Cal/1150 Monkey Early this season, he asked to be The Yankees must also decide
I very well, but they blew us off the 
traded because he wasn't pitching whether to go with ace left-bander
I Needed: Ride to/from Kansas City over I line of scrimmage. That was the
Beautiful Blue Eyes, Congratulations on 
as often as ·he wanted. No deal Ron Guidry, working with three 
I October break. Will share expenses. key. · your capping. You can be my nurse 
developed, and when Bob Lemon or use
mi~ht

Call Chris 8583 anytime. Love always, 3-8-1 "The other turning point days' rest, on Wednesday, 
replaced Martin the Catfish or
have been the one play when (lrtsh Billy as veteran Hunter rookie
I Need GA Pitt tickets badly. Call Damiam I I safety Jim) was to Yankee manager, Piggy became an Beattie in Game 2, holding
All Observer reporters original copies of Browner able Jim 1111033. last year's stories will be available at the steal the ball and run it in for a integral part, of New York's dash Guidry back until Friday night.office until Oct 16. I touchdown. In the second half we to its third consecutive pennant. Guidry, who usually works every
I Desperately need ride east anywhere near Phi/a. are for Oct. break. Will share performed much better, although Hooton, who became the ace of fifth day, pitched three times down
Drugs, 
I all expenses and driving Call Damian, I we still made plenty of mistakes." the Dodgers' staff this season, . the stretch with only three days'
You! what else? Do you want to dance? 
1033 ' ME . The second half, according to enjoying the best year of his career, rest. He beat the Royals SaturdayI Smith, was when "we decided to started twice against the Yankees with four days off and said later he
I Need 12 Miami GA tickets Call Bill I get our heads out of our butts and
T.B. in the 1977 World Series. He beat would prefer to have an extr-a day
289-2046 
Believe me, you did not pass your play football." 
them 6-1 in. Game 2 . but was of rest this time.
prime. Happy Birthday!!! Or, according to Rogers, it was
1 Need 4GA tickets for Pitt Please call Paul the starter and loser in the sixth
Love, Princess 
simply one of "two possibilities.
1 1002 I and final game when Reggie 
Joanie McCurd recently conducted a I\They've either got better players or Jackson rewrote the Series record AnswersI Need 4 GA tickets to Miami. Call Jeff they were emotionally better pre­
survey of N.D. men. For more info. call book with three consecutive home
8932 . pared to play the game ... and it
#3352 runs.
I 

I could be both." 
Jackson finsihed last year's
I Desperately need GA tickets to woman, to Friday's
You've heard of the sensuous Nevertheless, for the Spartans it
Tennessee. Call Eric 1384 Series with five homers, eight runs
now meet the sensuous man -Mr. Mark
I1was too little, too late.
Laemmle! batted in and a .450 battingI Need rides to Tuscan or as far west as Now appearing at 1101 Flanner. average and was named the out­possible. Mary 4-1-4702 Endorsed by-Toots, Okee, Marie, and CC standing player of the champion­puzzle
--------, 
ship showdown. The Yankee
1 Need GA tix to Pitt, Tennessee. Call Rowing Club Bus for hire 8917 The 911 Club is taking the plunge! I1 .'C'if·,, MIPmF L 0 0 DS
slugger warmed up for this Series
Jerry, Herman 1398. 
CHAR IIO T ALE N C 0 N
1 Interested in horseback Riding lnstruc-217 B. P Girl Don't even try -I'm not by ripping two home runs and 
L A B 0 R E R V A ~ T A G E
Need GA tix to Pitt. Tennessee. Call Joe tion? Contact Melissa Clpkala, SMC even Bl. batting .461 in the four-game
I 

E L I ii'iJ S lfljt~. R T E
I 
ro Steve 1478. 5409, 415 MC or Joe Hall, 683-4467. Ric,hardo playoff against Kansas City. 
METJS SCARE LIIAR 
Under the system of alternating
I Need 4 adjacent GA tix to any home ;:;;;-Iri-shFili-es-ar-e-co;;;i~!c~;;;ho-; -S.-0-.M-.F-.-is_c_o_m-in_g_!------. 
s T UIN s.' Gs 
D'B


rules. the American League's
I RA I AL E. J 0 NlA S
game. Call Mark 1478 oft your talented ability and win some
I 
designated hitter will be used in 
P A L E B R 0 W N
Irish greens! Toledoans unite.
I Need two GA tickets to tennessee. Call ------------the Series this year. Jackson likely 

PRI.RUNNERS 
Tony 6118 Want to go to Florida over break? For Pre Pitt Toga Party -Stepan Center -I will occupy that role for the 
C A D E T D U B. S TIE L A 

Transportation Call Auto Driveaway. Wed_nesday 9-12, WSND will play live.• Yankees while Dodger Manager 
A B 
s s 0 SIL

ElD L A I M
I 
Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets tor any home 674-9786. Watch for road trip details. 
BAL.FATHOMS.I DA
1football game. Call Mike 7838 1 Tom Lasorda may alternate the 
assignment. 
0 R I F'J-fI NE S 
T E N U R E S F R A T E R S
Los Angeles has beeil platooning 
STERES 
SPUDS.


center fielders Bill North and Rick 
. . 
~ ' .

L---·--------------•-------.1 
.. " 
~ ' ·.. •.. 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~onday, October~, 1978
the observer
8 

Offense rolls in 29-25 Irish victory 
Montana-led attack knocks off Spartans 

by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -The Fighting Irish and the Spartans of Michigan State ignored tradition this past Saturday in a wide open contest that ended with Notre Dame out on top 29-25, but not before an aerial show by MSU quarterback Eddie Smith was com­pleted. 
Both teams came into the game with losing records, which was a very unusual occurence in the long history between these two teams. It was anticipated that the winner would make less errors in hard hitting, low scoring battle. While few mistakes were made, the game became a wide open battle between · Michigan State's catch-up passing game and the free-lance rushing of Vagas Ferguson and Jerome Heavens. 
With three minutes left in the first half. both teams were following the usual script as the Spartans had six points on the board thanks to field goals by Morten Anderson from 25 and 36 yards out. Notre Dame scored a lone touchdown on a 68­yard drive that saw hard-nose rushing by Jerome Heavens and Montana completions to Kris Haines and Dennis Grindinger. Heavens capped the drive on a one­yard dive. 
It looked like more of the same minutes later when the Irish drove to the Spartan two before stalling, and then adding insult to injury when Joe Unis missed the uprights on a chipper from the 20-yard' line. But Montana got a previously dormant . offense moving on the 
next possession as Vagas Ferguson 
began slashing out yards on a day 
that he would end with 140 yards 
on 21 carries. 
Montana chipped in with passes to freshman Dean Masztak and Haines before taking it in himself to up the score 13-6. Devine decided this was the time to get away from conservative tradition as his team faked the extra point and Greg Knafelc promptly hit tight end Nick Vehr for the two-point conversion. 
The bizarre had just begun when minutes later NO safety Jim Browner stripped Andrew Schramm of the ball after a completed pass and raced 45 yards for what seemed to be a clinching TD, as Notre l)ame took a con­vincing 22-6 lead into the locker room at half-time. 
Smith,who was 7-1Sfor 107 yards at this point, was preparing for perhaps the best half of football in his life. The senior signal caller missed his first pass of the second half and then proceeded to hit six in a row with the sixth toss, a three-yarder to Samson Howard, making the score 22-13 with 1:15 left in the third quarter. 
However, Notre Dame matched Smith's success with a smooth­running game that continued to eat away at the clock. The Irish drove 81 yards, all on the ground, in ten plays to score what approved to be the winning touchdown with 12:09 remaining in the game as Ferguson capped the drive with a seven•yard sweep making the score 29-13. 
But Smith was not ready to call it quits as he connected on his next 


Room To Run 
.•·.;.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·;-;-;-;-;-;.,.,.;-;o;-:·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·Leadl"ng..•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•••············•••.••.•••.•.•.•.• lnterJl6erence 
EAST LANSING, Mlcb. -The offensive unit of the Notre Dame football 
team, which sputtered through the first three games of this season, finally 
came alive against Michigan State. The offense put 22 points on the 
scoreboard against the Spartans and began to bear some resemblance to 
the offensive machine which last year produced the most points in ND 
annals. 

The catalyst of this increased offensive output is the improved play of the line. It usually takes a few games for any offensive line to learn to block as a unit. In the Missouri and Michigan games, and in the first half of the Purdue game, blocking was an individual effort and was resultingly inconsistent. This inconsistency hobbled· the ground attack and the offense sputtered. In the second half against the Boilermakers, the line blocked more as a unit and, consequently, the offense moved the ball. 
Saturday in Spartan Stadium the line was firing off the ball from the opening whistle. Vagas Ferguson, Jerome Heavens and all the other backs had room to run. Joe Montana had time to pass. And the offense put together their longest drives of this young season. The Irish marched 68, 78, and 81 yards to touchdowns. 
Center Dave Huffman, the spiritual leader of the line, thinks the unit is finally executing at the same level as the rest of the offensive team. "We were lagging behind the rest of the team but now we are starting to come together," Huffman stated after Saturday's victory. 
The improved play of the line can be seen in the rushing statistics. Notre Dame ran the ball 56 times against MSU for a total of 261 yards. That's an impressive average of 4.6 yards per carry. Vagas Ferguson was the individual leader with 140 markers in 21 attempts. That is Ferguson's best total this season and the first time in 1978 that an Irish back had accumulated over 100 yards in one afternoon. 
Because of the success of the ground attack, Montana only put the ball in the air twelve times. He was able to use the running fakes to get off the pass. These fakes slowed the Spartan rush and held their pass defenders for an extra second, allowing Irish receivers to run deeper pass patterns. Because of the longer pass routes, the average gain per catch by ND on Saturday was 24.8 yards. 
If the line continues the developement it has exhibited in the last game and a half, the whole offensive unit will begin to resemble the ND scoring machine that was first unveiled last year against USC. GAME NOTES--Oh, where have you gone Dave Reeve) Only one Notre Dame field goal attempt has beenconverted thus far this season, that a27­yarder by Joe Unis against Purdue. Unis was later very short on a 41­yarder in the same game. Against State there were two missed field goal attempts. Unis botched what was basically an extra point try and Chuck Male was wide and short..i although he was kicking into strong wind, on a · 40-yard placement. A close game which calls for a field goal try will be trouble.... Spartan quarterback QB Ed Smith was 20 of 26 in the second half, but those stats are misleading. Notre Dame was in deep coverage most of the time and Smith just dumped the ball off short and let his receivers do all the work .... Keith Gibson, he of S400,000 Detroit Tigers baseball contract, seemed a little shy of contact when running across the middle on a pass pattern.... Devine is using reserve fullback Pete Pallas more and more. The 6-2, 204-poundl senior is a blocking demon....Next Saturday's game against Pitt will be another early start (a Ia Michigan) because of television. Who says the networks don't rule the sports world? 
three passes, bringing his consecu­
tive streak to nine before missing 
on a tenth attempt. Three consecu­
tive pass plays later, the Spartans 
had pulled within ten in their 
constant uphill battle, as Smith 
combined with speedster Kirk Gib­. son for the final six yards. 
It looked as though the Irish were 

safe when MSU took the ball for the 
final time at their own two yard line 
with 3:12 ltft on the clock. The 
Irish readied for the kill at the two 
minute mark when Darryl Rogers' 
team was faced with a fourth down 
situation at their own seven, but 
Smith did what he had done for the 
past two quarters--come up with 
the big play. This time it was an 
eight-yard strike to tight end Mark 
Brammer. Smith upped his second 
streak to six before missing on a 
bomb to Kirk Gibson. The game 
Spartan mixed out-patters with 
crossing patterns giving the Notre 
Dame secondary fits trying to 
defend their lead. 
"We had pretty tight coverage on 

them,'' explained strong safety Jim 
Browner. "But their receivers are 
good and Smith just kept putting 
the ball right there." 
With one minute remammg, Smith put the ball on the mark for the last time hitting Gene Byrd for four yards and the third Spartan touchdown pass of the game, but it wasn't enough as Masztak sealed MSU's fate by recovering an onside kick. 
A pleased Dan Devine was not surprised by Michigan .State's premier passing game. "Michigan State has some individual brilliance and despite their record, I think they're one of the best football teams in the country." Devine went on to recognize the accom­plishments of both teams' field generals. "Both quarterbacks did a remarkable job. Both came up with the big play." 
Montana finished the game with 6-12 passing for 149 yards but also picked up 23 yards on nine carries in crucial situations. Smith finished the day with a phenomenal 27-41 mark for 306 yards and no interceptions, but the Spartans could muster only 117 yards on the ground to NO's 279 yard total. 
A depressed Darryl Rogers spoke graciously of Notre Dame's perfor­mance, "I think the first half we played was a great tribute to Notre Dame. They blew us off the field, mentally, physically and every other way." 
GAME NOTES: The Irish up their record to an even 2-2 while State drops to 1-3 on the season. The Irish prepare for Pittsburgh this week in a game that could turn a slow start around.... Jero.me Heavens needs 99 yards to become the all-time leading Notre Dame rusher, surpassing George Gipp's total of 2341. 


Notre Dame's Roman Klos [left] and teammates traveled to Michigan State Saturday, where they deadlocked the Spartans, 2-2, in an overtime battle. The Irish, now 10-1-1, were scored upon with less than one minute remaining. Story on page 7. [Photo by john Calcutt]. 
Smith Circus falls too short 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -It mat­
ters little to Michigan State quar­
terback Ed-Smith that the senior 
signal caller completed 27 of 41 
pass attempts for 306 yards and all 
three Spartan touchdowns. 

And it matters even less to MSU 
coach Darryl Rogers that Smith's 
completion and attt:mpt marks 
topped all previous State indivi­
dual-game records, and that his 
aerial yardage fell only 18 yards 
short of the Spartans· single-game 
mark. 

It matters little, for despite what 
could have been Smith's best 
collegiate performance, . Michigan 
State fell on the short side of a 
29-25 outcome to Notre Dame on 
Saturday. 

"Being 100 percent sincere, I'm 
not pleased because we .iust didn't 
win it," lamented Smith. who 
threw for 199 yards in the second 
half alone. "I don't know if you 
watched the baseball playoffs, but 
it's like when George Brett his 
three home runs in the game. He 
said it was like a nightmare 
because they lost the game. 
"There's no consolation when you 
lose. I'd rather be 0-for-1 00 and 
win the game than be whatever I 
was. That's what it's all about-­
winning. The individual stuff 
doesn't do you any good." 

Smith's aerial show did little to 
ease the pain f'f defeat felt by 
Rogers. "He's got to get better," 
emphasized the three-year Spartan 
mentor. 

"I'm not mad, but he's got to get us into the end-zone more often. I'm not pleased at all. I can~t be pleased with an effort that we lose by four." 
By no means, however, does Rogers blame Smith for the defeat. Quite disheartening to the colorful coach was the fact that the Spartan defense allowed the Irish 410 total yards, including 149 yards on the 6-f•Jr-12 passing of Notre Dame quarterbatk Joe Montana . 
"We didn't get any pressure, and we didn't get any coverage," admitted Rogers of his team's defensive showing. "The coverage wasn't a mental lapse, like missing a receiver. It was just that the effort of the coverage was poor. The guys just didn't get the job done--period." 
MSU cornerback Jerome Stanton, who was one of many Spartans kept busy all afternoon, saw it slightly differently. 
"Maatana is a good quarter­back," he emphasized. "He has good backs running for him and good wide-outs to catch the ball. 
"If he puts the ball on the money, there's nothing a defender can do. With a good pass and a good pass route, a defender can do nothing. "But I didn't really feel they hurt us that bad with the pass. The run is what really hurt us (Vagas 
[continued on page 71 



