-
----~--~----~-­
Teamsters again charge University 
by Mike Ridenour "suspended indefinitely" last Fri­because of that incident. "It has returned to the garage, the super­prerogative if they want to tile a Staff Reporter day. According to Payton, "I was been a combination of things that visor, John Michalski, said, 'Do charge. "We believe there is no fired because I was one hour late we (the University) would not want you know what a phone is?' I told substance to that charge. Remem­to make public, but deals with his him there was no phone near my ber, the last unfair labor practice
Teamsters Local 364 has filed a for work last Thursday." 
relations with the supervisors," truck's breakdown. An argument charge never went to court because third unfair labor practice charge Payton said, The University has ensued.'' the National Labor Relations Board against Notre Dame in connection been trying to catch me on some­Bull said. 
with the layoff of Jim Payton, thing because of my involvement in Payton said the trouble began "The next thing I knew I was (NLRB) saw no merit in it," Bull catalyst of the unionization move­union activities." when his truck broke down. fired. I didn't know Michalski was stated. 
ment of the workers on campus. Director of Personnel, Tom Bull "There was no phone nearby, " my boss," Payton said. Bull "They (the Teamsters) can fiJe a Payton, a garage worker, was denied that Payton was "fired" Payton explained, "and when I claimed, "We believe Payton knew charge on anything they want but it that Michalski was his boss." is the proof in the pudding that 
Mike Lawrence, assistant busi­counts," Bull continued. ness representative of Teamsters Lawrence said this third charge Local364, said that the unfair labor would not interfere in the progress practice charge is being filed on of the unionization issue. "This behalf of Payton on the grounds of unfair labor practice charge is 
discrimination by the University. separate so we cannot expect it to "We believe Payton was singled hold up the original issue," out for his union activity because Lawrence said. 
he's the main person behind the The NRLB is still in the process unionization movement,'' of making a decision on the size of Lawrence explained. the bargaining units for a vote on 
Bull said that it is the Teamsters' unionization.
bserver 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st: mary's Vol. XIII, No. 26 Tuesday, October 3, 1978 
Will meet with Roemer 
Food fighters lose IDs 
by Frank LaGrotta 
checker in the North Dining Hall. ·'The whole community has to "We took four IDs after both the make a point and say we won't 
Thirteen student indentification Missouri and Michigan games," tolerate this kind of thing,"cards have been confiscated as a Rupert said. "Many of the Roemer said. "I think the guilty result of food fights that took place students involved had been drink­students have to learn from this in both the North and South Dining ing. I think it's that, plus the experience. It's an inconven­
Halls last Saturday night. emotions from the football game ience for the people who have to The ID cards, along with a report that causes the problems." clean up the mess and for the 
of the incidents, were sent to Dean The situation in the South Dining people who can't enjoy a meal in of Students, James Roemer. The Hall on Saturday was similar, the dining hall without this type of students involved are scheduled to according to director Carson Wells. disturbance." meet wit!l Roemer today. • • Students in the East Hall 
Roemer explained that the dis­
The student's actions are in direct started throwing food. Then the 
ciplinary action usually taken when 
~iolation of Section 10 of the monitors and I collected eight ID 
this instance occurs is to make the
University regulations, which cards." Wells explained. 
involved students spend 20 hours 
states: • 'Throwing of food or other The thrown food caused officials 
on Sunday mornings cleaning gar­
objects in the dining halls is a to close the East Hall at 5:30 p.m. 
bage cans at the dining halls . 
.;erious offense against the entire ''Closing the East Hall was a real .:omnwnitv.'' The section was inconvenience for many students "That's the action that everyone added to the regulations last year. not involved in the food fight," Bob (students and dining hall officials) 
According to Ron Athey, food Robinson said senior food service agreed upon earlier this year," service director in the North Dining director for SAGA Foods. Roemer explained. "The garbage 
Hall, food-throwing incidents oc­"Many of the students involved cans have to be cleaned so it seems curred during dinner in B and C were intoxicated and one of our to me that the people best suited to lines at the North Dining Hall. Five monitors actually discovered beer clean them are the people who 
ID cards were confiscated at that on a few of the apprehended messed up the dining halls." time. students." Wells said. "Their 
Robinson believes that by
"A group of students started behavior caused problems for a lot 
making students aware of the
clanking glasses and sliding chairs. of innocent people seated around 
consequences of being caught, 

The two students here are taking their chances on the portable 
Then they started throwing bread, them, not to mention the students food can be
further fights pre­

color T.V. to be raffled off at Oktoberfest. The raffle doesn't
cookies and cottage cheese, among forced to stand in long lines at the vented. 

start officially until Wednesday. Tickets will cost fifty cents. action and asked for IDs," Athey was closed." The consequences, coupled withother things. That's when we took West Hall because the East Hall 
[Photo by Ron Szot} 
peer pressure, might discourage
said. Roemer said he will discuss the 



This was not the first reported incident of food-fighting in the North Dining Hall this year, ac­ incidents with the students involv­ed at today's meeting. Their ID cards will also b~ returned at this  students from throwing food," Robinson said. "Believe me, food fights aren't any fun for innocent  FAA releases planecrash transcripts  
SAN DIEGO [AP] -A doomed pilot's calm advisory that his jet  of any trouble until controllers at Miramar,which handled the PSA jet  
was  going  down  was  the  only  until it was handed off to Lip.dbergh  
interruption  in  routine  pilot-con­ controllers for the final approach,  
trolter  conversations  before  the  noticed a low-altitude alert sound­ 
naton's  worst  air  crash,  tape  ed  as  the  jefliner  fell  below  a  
recordings  released  yesterday  minimum safe height.  
showed.  Other pilots radioed controllers  
"Tower, we're going down. This  immediately  after  the  accident,  
is PSA," the  pilot  of  Pacific  their voices showing concern.  
Southwest Airlines Flight 182 told  "Cleared to land  ...  Boy, what  
Lindbergh  Field  controllers  just  blew  up  out  there?"radioed  an  
before the crash last  Monday  in  unidentified  Western  Airlines  
which at least 144 persons died.  pilot, whose plane was cleared for  
The transcripts, released by the Federal Aviation Administration,  landing about five the collision.  minutes  after  
show no evidence of joking or inattention on the part of the PSA crew, as had been claimed in some news reports, but only routine transmissions between air and ground. - "Seven twenty-seven went in" a Lindbergh controller answered. "Oh, God. Who?" another cni­'dentified pilot asked. '' PSA. ·' the Lindbergh controllers answered.  
The PSA jet and a single-engine Cessna collided three miles east of Lindbergh Field, raining flaming debris and bodies on the city's North Park residential area. All 135 persons on the PSA jet died, both persons in the Cessna were killed, and at least seven persons on the ground were killed .  The transcripts show the Cessna 172 involved in the collision with the PSA jetliner was advised thar the pilot of the PSA 727 decending upon him knew the single-engine plane was there. The last advisory came almost at the moment of collision.  
The transcripts cover transmiss­ The tape recordings, which run  
ion between controllers at Miramar  to  35  pages,  cover  five  to  six  
Naval Air Station, Lindbergh Field  minutes before and after the col­ 
and several planes, both · on the ground and aloft. There is no hint  lision. They were played at a news conference.  



the observer Tuesday, October 3, 1978. 

,...News Briefs----........... 
t=:::::=:::=::=:::=::::::::::::::::::::::~::=:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::= World 
Sadat praises CaJ-ter 
CAIRO, Egypt [API·Eg},tian President Anwar Sadat said yesterday that President Carter has acc~pted an invitation to come 
. to Egypt for the signing of an Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty resulting from the historic Camp David accords. Addressing his parliament on the summit accords, Sadat said they could not have been successful without Carter's "perseverence." The White House. said Carter wants to attend the signing, but press secretary Jody Powell said he did not know if it will be held in Egypt. 

1====:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: National 
Harrj,ses face sentencing 
OAKLAND, Calif. [API· William and Emily Harris, the avowed revolutionaries who admit they kidnapped Patricia Hearst, face sentencing today for one of America's most notorious abductions. It will mark the end of litigation for Harris, 33, and Mrs. Harris, 31, founding members ofthe terrorist Symbionese Liberation Army that shocked the world with the Feb. 4, 1974, crime. 


!'Seven dirty words' available 
PORTLAND, Maine !API· The P6rtland Press Herald offered to mail its readers a list of those "seven dirty words"the U.S. Supreme Court objected to, and readers from as far away as West Germany responded. The Press Herald did not publish the words when it carried stories about !he court's restriction of broadcasts of a record by comedian George Carlin. But it said the curious could get a list. be sending a self-addressed envelope to the newspaper. The offer was carried by The Associated Press and about 60 requests came in from out of state. 


Chemical leak causes fire 
HAMMOND, lad. [API-A $2 million fire at a chemical plant complex apparently was caused by ignition of a chemical leaking from an open valve on a tank set to be dismantled, authorities said yesterday. Investigators were questioning workers to determine if the valve was left open deliberately. The blaze, which started shortly after midnight Saturday, npped through the Keil Chemical Division of Ferro Corp. here, but there were no injuries. 


Gas hospitalizes .students 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. [API·At least 79 high school students and teachers were overcome yesterday by a gas that authorities said probably was carbon monoxide. The victims were given oxygen, and doctors said they believed none was seriously ill. Sch~ administrators said it was the first day this year that the school's heating system was used. They said the building would be closed today while the gas-fired furnace, which was tested Frida)\ underwent further testing. 


Weather 
Showers today, ending tonight. Highs in the upper 60s. Lows tonight in the upper 40s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow, with skies clearing in the late afternoon. Highs in the mid 60s. Chance of rain 80 percent today and 60 percent tonight. 

~On Campus Today_ ____,. 
1-3 pm 
4:30pm 7 pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 
12:00 pm 
.. ... .....
~
·'.... "­
presentation, foreign service, mr. donald kreisbert, 
170 lemans 
seminar, "hierarchy: a holistic model in ecology," dr. timothy allen, u. of wisconsin, 278 galvin discussion, "the role of campus ministry at nd," fr. 
bill toohey, flanner basement tryouts, womens varsity basketball, ace pit ladies of nd, nd/smc theatre preview of 78-79 
season, mem. lib. aud. album hour, "luxury you can afford," joe cocker, wsnd, am 640 

.. ., ..,:·._ ,' . . 

SMC Board of Governance discusses semester activities 
by Margie Brassll 
This week's Oktoberfest was one of the many issues discussed at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night. 
The schedule of Oktoberfest events begins Wednesday at 8 p.m. at Senior Bar where the first 100 beers will be given out free. Also, the raffle tickets for the 10-inch color television and the special Oktoberfest T-shirts will go on sale Wednesday. 
Dinner on Thursday will include entertainment by a German band and various skits. At 6:30p.m., the hall decorations will be jud[!'t>c\ followed by a showing of ''Dr. Zhivago" at 8 p.m. in Carrol Hall. 
Friday's events begin at 3 p.m. with a Happy Hour and. Gong Show at Goose's Nest. The ever popular Biergarten begins at 9 p.m. in Regina Hall's North Lounge, while at the same time a dance featuring_ 'Hot Springs' will be held in the 

Observer promotions made 
Observer Staff Reporters Kevin are juniors; Jackman and John Richardson, Mark Rust and Sue McGrath are freshmen. 
Wuetcher have been promoted to 
Senior Staff Reporters. Richardson 
and Wuetcher are seniors and Rust 
is a sophomore. 
Writers Tom Jackman, Marcia Kovas, Dan Letcher, John Mc­Grath, Ray McGrath, Robbie Moore and Mary Ann Wissel, all have been promoted to staff report­er. Ray McGrath and Wissel are seniors; Kovas, Moore and Letcher 



Apology 
We at the Observer apologize for the unfortunate placement of the pep rally photographs in yester­
day's paper. . Although these photos were placed near a story concerning the reaction to Pope John Paul I's death, they were by no means a reflection of our
reaction to this mournful occur-ranee. 
Also, the size of the photo of Judy Cerebona was not intended to dramatize her untimely death. We apologize if any of our readers perceived it as such. 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frldey except during exam end vaatlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Nom Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purcllesed for no per yeer CS 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 4U56. Second cteu postege peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 4US6. . The Observer Is e member of the Auocletecl Press. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 

a Qlications Wed. afternoon, 3-8 pm.
•••••...••••.•...................,

i UNITED WAY i 
i SMC MAKES IT HAPPEN i 
• QU • 
• he •
• •e
.e lm .
. ~ .
• ~ • 
: t.·o 10 20 30 40 so 60 10 eo 90 ·1oo: 
................................................ 
e off campua atudenta may conttlbut. at l•m<.\u hall d•ak e
....................................
·.".. 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sherry Mum­mert Asst. Night Editor: Kathie Tighe Layout Staff: John Smith, Dave Berg, Dave Brosh, Dan­ny Smith, Tom Smith Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Features Layout: Cindy Me 
Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Mardi (with a d and 
ani) Nevin, Tom (you better Kiel 
change your name by next week or you don't get it in my . staffbox) Pipp, Rosie Rodgers, 
Pete McFadden Night Controller: me Day Editor: John Ferroli 
Copy Reader: Debbie Dahrling Photegrapher: Ron Szot 
~~:;:~~;::;;;::;:~:;::;;~;:;~:;::;::;~~;:::;::~:;=<;~~~
" 


u 0use 
~eat -y1 soo" 

ov~"''"'~ 
Guys S Gals Blue Jeans Sportswear at Factory Outlet Prices 
5 Blocks South of Campus on Notre Dame Ave. PART-TIME HELP WANTED! 
South  Lounge.  The  admission  
price is $2.  
On  Saturday,  there  will  be  

another special showing of "Dr. Zhivago" at 8 p.m. 
Sophomore Class Vice President Mary Ellen Maccio, petitioned and received an additional $50 from the Board of Governance for Founder's Day. The plans are running smoothly with a budget of $975, the largest amount spent for this day in recent years. ' 
Pia Trigiani, publicity chair­person, also proposed issuing $180 to rent a plan carrying a banner to fly over the Notre Dame stadium during the NO-Pittsburgh football game. The bannel' would carry a message celebrating the college's anniversary. This proposal was unanimously granted. Twenty dollars will be donated from each hall and class to cover the expense. 
Other expenses of the day are being cove~.:ed by college funds; Social Commision funds, and Board of Governance funds. 
The Sophomore class is hoping to obtain the remaining expenses with the sale of the collector's edition T-shirts. 
Julie Pope, vice president of academic affairs, submitted a proposal for a student energy conservation plan. The possibili­ties for this plan were widely discussed. The Board agreed it would have to be taken to the students for a final vote, but details of the plan are still being dis­cussed. 
According to Jason Lindower, college controller, the college saved $350 per day during the height of last year's energy crisis. At one point, the college was conserving SO percent of their energy due to the students' conser­vation. 
The idea of a conservation pro­gram, according to Pope, would be to make students' aware of how much it costs to leave lights and stereos on and how it affects their tuition. 
Other business presented by Student Body President Gail Darragh was the choice of the college charity for this year. The Board will vote next week on the various possibilities. Talks also ; began last night concerning next spring's Women's Week. 
need posters in a hurry? 

1 

C~lDI 
~ 

l•nsfy•pr•lnfs:i. 
the w1a of the printingbiz! 
100 • 11 X 17 posters only $10.00 
203 n. main Oowntown SoBend 289-6977 


-~--........ 
• 




I 

-.90 • 
•eo 
... •70 
.. .60 

-.so 
.,.. ,40 

• .30 ! .20 
.10 

AL BA BP CR CV Dt FA PT. PL GR HC HO KE LE LY MO PA SE SO ST. ••A ZA 

I pattlclpatlon chatt . . : 

South Bend Police Sgt. joel Wolvis speaks at the rape prevention workshop. [Photo by Ron Szot] 
Alumni Association creates co?.~er::!ou;i:l~peto think about. 

Student relatl•ons group
· 
by Ed Moran 
Staff Reporter 
A Student-Alumni !{elations Group (SARG) was recently created by the Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation in hopes of enhancing communications between· the stu­dent body and the association, . 
•'thereby creating a better under­standing of Alumni-oriented pro­grams." 
"The typical view of the Alumni Association by the student body at Notre Dame is a bunch of old men getting together at the Morris Inn every football weekend and then going home," stated the asso­ciation's Assistant Director Tim Truesdell. "SARG is designed to put that misnomer to rest," he added. 
SARG was officially approved at the Alumni Assocation's meetings held last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. 
Chaired by seniorMickiO'Connel will consist of six members: two sophomores, two juniors, and two seniors. SARG will attempt to make the student body more aware of the functions that the Alumni Association offers on campus. 
''.SARG will be an apparatus to let the students get to know the board and the board to get to know the students," O'Connell said. "In January we hope to have members of the Board go out into the campus and meet the seniors that plan to live in their region so they can take advantage of the ND Oub in that area," she continued. 
"Take my case, for example. I'm from Minnesota but I plan to work in New York after I graduate," O'Connell said. "The ND Club out there is going to help 
[Continued on page 7] 

Tuesday, October 3, 1978 * ~ the obsatyer 


SMC stresses rape awareness 
by Lisa Fulks 
A new Rape Awareness Prograftl designed by hall directors Barbara VanEck and Susan Tamborini, has been instituted at Saint Marv's 
College. 
Van Eck, in her second year as Holy Cross director, cites the two rapes of last year as a major factor 
in thecreationof this new program. The program is designed t? reach virtually every SMC restdent. According to Van Eck, every sec­tion of every dorm will have the chance to see a film on rape
awareness and to hear a lecture on the subject. Printed information regarding the subject has also been passed out to residents. 
VanEck and Tamborini both have counseling backgrounds. Tamborini, director of Regina Hall, holds a Masters in Student Per­sonnel and did her thesis on the different attitudes of both sexes toward the crime of rape. "It's an issue both sexes need to deal with. It would be good if men were made more aware of the problems fe­males have to face regarding this crime," Tamborini stated. 
Van Eck, who attended a work­shop that dealt with women and violent crimes, has also met with South Bend's Sex Offense Staff (S.O.S.). She claims that there has been a positiveresponseon the part of the residents, thus indicating a 
something they all do, such as walking home from ND at night,leaving bars or parties with some­one they've just met, or hitch­hiking. With the exception of hitching, I'm not saying not to do these things, but rather, be more careful. Let a friend know as you're leaving a party or bar where you are going and whom you are going with." Van Eck advised. The illusion that one has nothing 

Martin, Denver, Foreigner coming to ACC 
Tickets for the Steve Martin 
show will go on sale Oct. 16 and 
tickets for the Foreigner concert 
wi.ll,_go on sale Oct. 18. All tickets 
will be available in the Student 
Union Office in LaFortune. 
Tickets sales for the John Denver concert will take place Oct. 9-10. 

Tonight at GOOSE'S... 

Mixed Drinks 



7-1, 

to worry about on the two cam-campus also took part in a Rape puses is one that must be dispelled, Awareness workshop which dealt VanEck said. She maintains that with how to help someone who has 
there is only so much security, and been raped. The RAs have also that it is up to the student. to be been responsible for promoting the better informed about rape. Rape Awareness Program among 
Van Eck feels that increased the residents. awareness and learning several A self-defense class is also part protective and preventive mea-of the program for any resident 
sures will aid the girls in dealing who wants to sign up. After with rape. "It important to talk mid-semester break there will be a about it beforehand so you're campus-wide meeting covering the prepared to take care of yourself or medical and legal aspects of rape. a friend if it does happen," she In the spring the program will be explained. continued to bring the issue to the 
The Resident Advisors (RAs) on students' attention once more. 
ll!!~!!!!ij!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~!!!!~;!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!=!!!l~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!ftl
A

-Skystream irlines nnou~ the 
FARE-DEAL 
stand by rates as low as 

saoo 
to Chicago 
Regular Reserve Fee '18.00 

217-5313 1-800-552-2580 (IND.) .•. 
'ITIW'J~·~T""'r"Y-rii-.. .. 'IW"'"''I 
Don't miss the 


HURRICANE 
at the Jefferson Lounge 
Notre Dame~ finest hassle-free party 
A limited number of tickets on sale now for only 1300 
CHECK IT OUT Saturday
Oct. 6 

.......................................................... 
•\} 
------------~--­
pinion-===========~ 


We Are Adults 
teve odland======~tim sullivan 
'l_'he Student Rights Forum held last week was not, despite popular 

behef, a _confr~mtation betwee~ adminstratiors and the student body on 
student nghts Issues. Rather, 1t was an encounter between differences in 
attitudes and opinions. 
In hi,.'J opening comments, Vice Even administrators are lfresi<Jent of Student Affairs Fr. confused at the reasoning behind John Van Wolvlear spoke of the {:!ariet~ls .. while some belie.ve the University as a school with time hm1ts place a restraint on "parental concern" for its stu-sexual activi!Y· others consider dents. This was the framework on them a vehtcle to attain "quiet which both he and Dean Roemer hours." The two reasons, too, are based their answers to studnets' incongruous with each othei:. But questions. Given that the Univer-these administrators are acting on sity-student relationship is of a orders. from a u~viersity president parent-child nature, their answers co~mttted to (ctrcai19SO's:) never were logical.. But the student body h~vmg_ w?men on ca~pus and sees the University-student (cu:ca1970 s) n~ver. allowmg coedu­relationship as an adult-adult catto~a.l dor:nutones. But the relationship and does not accept admtnt~tratu;m ha~ _some"':hat this framework . this is why moderntzed 1ts OJ?tomons smce confusion on particular issues has women are now an mtegral part of arisen. the Notre Dame community. Now Although the forum provide a again is,t~e time, to ~o~erni~e and means for students to air their update thts communtty s· attitudes 
gripes on the general topic of and ?~inio~s. Notre Dame ~nd its 
student life, and though it allowed ad~tntstratton !Dust recogmze the 
administrators to explain and ~ttttudes of SOCI~ty and modernize 
defend their viewpoints on par-Itself ~o th~t Its ~ul~s ~oo are 
ticular issues, neighter side left the compattble w~th soctal. attttudes. 
encounter with a feeling of satisfac-If ~he p~rte~al . system were 
tion. Students who made inquiries a~ohshed, mstltutmg: coed dorms 
to Dean Roemer and Fr. Van m1ght not be necessary to update 
Wolvlear walked away shaking the University. For then, any 
their heads at what seemed to them advantage of coed dorms would be 
shadowy and sometimes ridiculous attained by the elimination of 
answers. The administrators who unreasonable visitation hours. 
tried to answer questions failed to Th~se rules are e:n~arra~sing ­see why their replies seemed th~y msult ~tude_nts m_telhgence, . insufficient. Indeed the forum cnpple soctal mteractton, and seems to have created more confu-imply that students are immature. sion than clarification Whenever a male and female enter 
The true issue at hand then or leave a dormitory room they are 

does not revolve around the con: compelled, along with any 
crete problems of sexual behavior, onlookers, t? check. their watches. 
alcohol abuse, privacy, j-board Of course, tf the ttme approaches 
functions, student input into ad-~he. ''magica~ hour,'' everyone is 
ministrative decisons or even the mchned to thmk "Aha,-what were 
all-encompassing tit!~ of "Student they doing?" 'and they are made to 
Rights." These, though important fe~J unnecessarily guilty for just 
in their own way, are merely -bemg together. In many cases, 
spinoff's from the more complex roommates too are needlessly 
and ambiguous problem of attitu-embarrassed because: "Well, they 
dinaI and opinionative differences are in t~ere together!" It doesn't 
between the administration and the matter 1f the females and males 
student body. merely feel a need to talk and be 
Why the adminsitration views al~ne, for once_. This is still ~he student body as childish, ~lsco.~strue~ tnto some~hi_ng Immature, and incapable of bad_. . Thts type pf chtld1sh directing its own life is a mystery. reaction ts ~ncouraged by peremp· The student body of Notre Dame to~ dea~lmes. W~th?ut these has indeed proven its maturity and arbitrary t1mes set as hm1ts, people intellig~nce throughout its ~ould not , be ne~dlessly academic, athletic, and social embarrassed to be w1th each career. Certainly, given the strict other or to see a male and female standards of academic excellence together. Women and, men could and social character which the learn how to socially interact admissions department requires, nonnally ~ith one an~ther without the very fact that an individual has presupposmg that time of day been accepted into this community should affect reactions or actions should prove to the administration between one another. tht the individual is a capable, The s_tudent body, then , should m~ture intelligent, adult person. assert Itself pro~erly to c~an~e Th1s, however, is not the case as these rul~s and attttudes. Th1s wtll Du Lac regulations repeatedly trot be a simple task, since the roots suggest to the Notre dame student in In loco parentJs and parietals run that he/she is a child. throughout the administrative stuc-
According to Du Lac, "Coeduca-ture. But the individual issues tion allows men and women to must not be allowed to be ftled contribute to one another's educa-awa~ unacted upon as if they were tion and to form genuine rubb1sh. . Organizations like the CJ:i~nd~hips .. .In the proper context stude?t govern~ent and t_he Cam­VISitation can facilitate personal pus L1fe Council !Dust stnve to be and social development and more r~p~esentat1ve of these stu­enhance the quality of life on our de_nt opm1ons, and must make its campus." Agreed. But the vo1c_e heard often and ~oudly. enforcement of an arbitrary Fmally, and most Importantly, "visitation system" by the students must force the highest University is incongruous with levels ?f the administration to their beliefs about coeducation: the recogmze that Notre Dame enf?rcement of parietals defeats students are indeed. mature, their purpose. If parietals weigh so capable, adults. Then, m support heavily, Du lac should read that and de~~nstra_tion of this belief, personal and social development the admm1stratton mu~t abolish the can only occur before midnight (or useless system of panetals so that 2 a.m. on weekends). But that is. they c~n succeed in their goal of silly; how can anyone place dead-producmg ma~ure, well-rounded, lines on social life? capable, Amencan leaders. 


OBSERVER EDITORIALS 

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!p • 0 • BOX Q!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
_...,...,_ 
Mr. Szwed apparently holds ~heologians in yery high regard 
tndeed; I would like to see evidence 
as to why theologians--self­
regarded as professional students 

A plea for support 
~lldhrq of ~.tn !J-­
rather than as primarily practi­

11•tn ,_, ~ _ .. 
tioners of religion--should be exalted to so high a status. October 2 , 1971:1 -..----While some in the Church may 
M 7t:N. knoll1 thia 78UI 8 1Jn1ted ~ P\lnd !k-ift ie taldng place thie IHt8k on caJII'U•· All I han in 7eare put, I -ld once qun uk 7t:N. to 111pport thh 100rthvhile eawoe. 
I thillk 1t 1e i..,.,rtant for ner'7one t.o experience the .-...pon.o1b1lit7 to ghe during tile eour.. ot tlleir college educa­tion. 'nle lln1ted Wq PUnd Dri•e 1e one •er'7 good 1IIQ' to gun thh uperience. I find 1 t adlllirable that tile atudet goal 1e eat at 1~ participation rather than a total dollar rtcure. The ..,haaia an one-to-one eollc1tation l.lld peraonal contact a:..,lltiea a c...-1t..,t to pn.ote reeponeible pnng l.lld lut 7Mr1 e student participation rate ot nearl,T 'lOt: vu b7 tar tile h1ahaat .-.ar. 
All 7t:N. know, the entire Unhel"llit7 1e imrolYed vith tile lln1ted Wq l'llnd Dr1..,. of St. Joaeph Count7. Notre 0..1 ae part ot St. Joeeph Count7, h aaked to pledge an armual donation to the tund. hcul.t-7, &<toodnhtration, ~~tart, l.lld etudeate partici­pate e.ab 7Mr to -t thie goal. Your dCIIIAtion to halp wpport the .uv-charitable orgeniutione in tiM local c-m.t-7 'Mill be grutl,T ~reciated b7 ~ people le.. tortuaate thaD ounelYM. 
Lut 7e&r's etUdeat reeponae tor tln1ted 'Wq vu a:x:ellent. !At1 • aee if we can't t.op lut 7ear1e reeponae b7 reach1nc that 1~ participation ttgure. 
'l1lalllclng 7ou tor rour cooperation l.lld 'Miabinc 7ou tiM bNt durillg the 7Mr ahead, I a 

No defense 

needed 
Dear Editor: 
Father Bill Toohey's generous contribution to life at Notre Dame is too vividly apparent to require d~f~~se against the mean-spirited cnt1c1sm of Professor Charles Rice in Thursday's Observer. In the most literal and positive sense, Father Toohey's presence here is a sweet and genial one. 
But the narrow conception of the University implicit in Professor Rice's nervous hostility to a col­league's views deserves some notice. Although his mind operates at a much lower level of dour and musty theological legalism (aside from the Second Vatican Council, his latest reference is to a 1918 document), Professor Rice reminds me of a dwarf-like version of the sombre and chill Grand Inquisitor in The Brothers Karamazov. The Grand Inquisitor is emblematic of a Church that has invented death for its people by offereing them what most appeals to their weakness-­the confinement and safety of rigid dogma. In the story he opposes Christ who holds out the promise of 

lasting life by appealing to men's 
strength and offering them free­
dom and risk. 
Many of us, I imagine, would be burned at the stake in the Grand Inquisitor's kingdom. And judging from Professor Rice's curious intel­lectual intransigence, I suspect many of us would be silenced in, if not exiled from his university. I think the freshmen were most privileged in encountering Father Toohey early in their careers at Notre Dame. And I think it would have beensplendidif they had heard as well a welcoming address from Professor Rice. For in the diversity of views so represented some ofthem would no doubt realize they were beginning a mysterious adventure of freedom and risk, a testing of their hearts and minds, which, if they were fortunate, might be their lives' best trophy. Joseph Duffy 
Another opinion 
Dear Editor: 
Following are my reactions to Mr. Szwed's reaction to Mr. Rice's reaction to Father Toohey's reac­tion to a theorized identity crisis within Christ. 
*The Observer 
01n independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame a~d Saint Mary's Colle-ge. It does not necessarily reflect the J?OIICies of the administration of either institution. The _news IS_ reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes, opinions and letters are the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor~ Editor Jean Powley 'Saint Mary7 s "E:ditor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production Manager John Tucker B~siness Manager Bob Rudy Advertising Manager
------1 
h~ve placed Dogma on an unduly h1gh pedestal, Mr. Szwed in de­riding Dogma elevates speculative theology to an equally unbecoming location in the heavens. 
In playing the "dogma-is-dry-as­dust" motif, Mr. Szwed blithely passes over the crucial question: Was or was not the Catholic Church instituted by Christ to guard and to teach His message of salvation in its fullness? If it was so instituted, th~n Mr. Szwed's nicely-made pomt--signifying nothingr · The official teaching of the Church deserves equal time at the very least--something Mr. Szwed seems reluctant to give it. 
How does Mr. Szwed explain the meaning of "officially sanctioned" as applied to theologians like R_ahner and Pannenburg? Theolo­gians are not football officials, who must be officially sanctioned to officiate. It is true that the "licens~s" of a few theologians to theologize have been officially revoked (that is, they were ordered to abandon or be silent about certain convictions if they wished to remain members of the Catholic Church), although such revocation never seemed to silence them. But I have heard of no theologian being granted a lifetime license to theologize. 
Tsk, tsk, Mr. Szwed. Right on, 

Mr. Rice.  Have  a  heart,  Father  
Toohey.  Thou  are  the  Christ  
Christ.  '  
Charles W. McCoUester  


And another 
Dear Editor: 
Mr. Szwed's reaction to Profes­sor Rice's reservation concerning the content and context of Father Toohey's homily at Freshman Orientation brings one to reflect on what I consider to be the center­core of Professor Rice's argument: that theological speculation (in this case concerning the nature of Christ's humanity and divinity), whether it be the "latest" or "best" from "official" Church theologians or otherwise, it not and should not be confused with what Professor Rice so carefully defined as the "teaching" Church. 

It is not so much that the theological speculations of Rahner and Pannenburg are inadmissable. They clearly are not. But more to the point, such speculation can be viewed as "ground-breaking" at best, with no resolution of the problems it raises and no concrete conclusions drawn that can be readily incorporated into the teach­ing Church. Simply put, sound theological speculation does not a teaching make. 
It is incumbent UQOn the homilist to be aware of his pastoral respon­sibility in regard to matters of faith and morals. If Father Toohey had been addressing a group of "offici­all_y sanctioned" theologians, ne1ther the content of his homily nor the context in which it was given would be at issue here. But this most certainly was not the case. Freshmen and their parents, the university setting not with­standing, are not trained to deal with the subtleties or intricacies of theological disputation. But they are, however, among the faithful to whom the teaching Church must be responsible by remaining account­able to its own teaching. This ac_countability be<;omes fully oper­ative at the pastoral level. It is this notion of accountability that Professor Rice so carefully delin­eates and which Mr. Szwed so blithely ignores. 
Ifone seriously believes that new theological speculation, even thoug~ untested, should be given preemmence over age-old prece­dence and tradition as incorporated in the teaching Church, then the essence of what Professor Rice has to say must fall upon deaf ears. 
Barry O'Coldior, 


~~----------~--~--------------------------------------------------------------.-----~---------· 
·I 
I 
I 

Fr. Bill Toohey 



An Imposition 
--Revisited· 

Tuesday, October 3,1978 the ObS8£Y8[ 
5 

lobotomy by p. bytnes 

F='E:'ANKL"'', I ~'I SEE. HoW "T"HAT '111/AL.~S COOLl>''IE Grl~ LJS. '1146.. SL..IP. 
U.S. Aiding latin Torture? 
State of Siege, which is showing Wed­AID also claimed to be helping to humanize nesday, Thursday, and Friday as part of them. The race between efficiency and the campus Third World Film Festival, has humanization seems clearly to'have been been a controversial movie since it was won by the efficiency experts. released in this country in 1973. After ten days in captivity, Mitrione was 
The controversy has involved whether or executed when the Uruguayan government not Director Constantin Costa-Gavras is refused to release the demanded 150 correct in implying that the United States political prisoners. Agency for International Development Yves Montand, who also starred in Z and (AID) teaches Latin American policemen The Confession, brilliantly and somewhat how to torture. sympathetically portrays the Mitrione 
Born in Greece, but educated in France, character (re-named Santore for the Costa-Gavras first made an international movie). The action has the same reputation with his brilliant move Z. That unrelenting switching from scene to scene film was based on the assassination of that was so successful in Z. Greek politician Gregorios Lambrakis and ~orne of the most subtle and i11uminating was a stunning indictment of the heavy­scenes in the movie show the congressmen handed right wing Greek dictatorship. debating the government's options in 
He then followed with The Confession, response to the kidnapping. The argu­which dealt with the trial . of Rudolf ments and frenetic behavior of the legisla­Slansky, former General Secretary of the tors serves to outline the limited options Czechoslovakian· Communist Party. Al­available once police brutality is countered though not as popular as Z , The Confes­with terrorism. The system may well sion, discredited justice behing the iron collapseand one is left with what we have curtain as successfully as the director had today in Uruguay--a harsh military govern­the Greek colonels. ment in a country that was famous 
State of Siege is based on the kidnapping throughout the world for its humane by Tupamaros guerrillas of Dan Mitrione in democracy. Montevideo, Uruguay in 1970. Mitrione, The screenplay was written by Franco former police chief of Richmond, Indiana, Solinas, who co-authored the classic The was working as an advisor to the Uru­Battle of Algiers and the much under-rated guayan government for "traffic control and Burn. The movie was shot mainly in Chile communication.'' Previously he had held a during the Allende years. similar position in the heavy-handed "The movie is about political violence, dictatorships of Brazil and the Dominican rather than about political assassination," Republic. Costa-Gavras told an interviewer in 1973 
AID officials have vehemently denied when the controversial film opened. "It the Latin American left's article of faith tries to speak about violence from each that U.S. advisers to Latin American side. We show how the Tupamaros polices forces teach new and sophisticated rationalize execution and how the other torture techniques. The film, as I side rationalizes torture .• We never get into remember it, is slightly ambivalent on the moral judgments or political judgments." matter of torture but strongly implies that In fact the director is not being the kidnapped man did teach torture. completely honest in the last sentence. 
Frankly, I have always doubted that This is a film that, while it may not exactly torture techniques need to be taught, judge, does i11uminate one of the most ., although what are virtually torture instru­difficult of contemporary ethical dilemmas-: ments are manufactured in the United what does one do if there seem to be ~ States and shipped to less developed equally unfortunate or evil options on both \, countries. But what seems incontestable is sides, and both sides find purity in their :; ·that the U.S. foreign assistance missions own motives by emphasizing the imperfec-i were helping the Latin American police tion of the other? 1 forces to become more efficient, although Prof. Michael J. Frande 1 

It's not every day that one (even a campus minister) is so sw~pingly con­demned--accused of presenting a false Christ, preaching against Church teaching and perpetrating "an imposition upon the entering students and their parents." 
I refer, of course, to the charges levelled against a sermon ,delivered . at theWelcome Mass for freshmen and their parents in the ACC on August 27th. In the interest of informing the community, and in response to requests, here is the actual text: enlightenment for Jesus, as often our best friends can give as. 
Peter says, in effect: "I see what everyone sees, your wisdom, your power, determination, courage, compassion. I put it all together and conclude that you are not simply a prophet but the fulfillment of prophecy. You are the Christ, the presence of God Himself in our midst." 
I once saw a billboard, which proclaimed in large letters: "Christ is the answer." Someone had climbed up and painted 
ques­tion?" Well, we know there is not just one the Father would share with us today is that several deepest, most significant questions we ask: care for me? 
Does through the struggles, chal­lenges, a>Id frightening experience I have? How can I find happiness in life? How can 
those questions. I urge you students to allow Him more 
go with that natural, very human desire to know Be like Jesus in ask that question of "Who do you say I am?" The answer itself is meant to grow and change, as you do, during your 
end, if your time at Notre Dame is the blessed experience it is meant "You acquired skills, a bunch of facts, a whole , cat~ogue of information; you are not just able to do 
You have become someone. You are the offspring of the living God. 
for a You are than You manifest the continuing presence of the living God 
Because you have let Him be the Christ for you, you are "Christian"--and that will simply 
I pray you become eligible for that kind of answer to the question, "Who do you say I And I pray there are persons who 
And so in welcoming you to Notre Dame, that There are a lot of people here who are totally dedicated to walk with you and to be with you in every way, as you try to grow into the answer you are destined to 
Our thanks for sharing your sons and daughters with us for a time. thanks for us. the that, experiences ahead, we will be led further along in our quest to become the vibrantly-alive Chris­



Tuesday, October 3, 1978 
the observer 

Horoscope 
For the week of Oct. 1-7 





Registration for Navy game ends tonight 
The final sign-up for the Nov. 4 Notre Dame Navy football game in Cleveland will be held tonight at tJoth Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
ND students may register in the LaFortune lobby between 7-8 p.m. and SMC students may register in the LeMans lobby from 7-8 p.m. 
There are several options avail­able for the football weekend and all students are urged to consider and finalize their plans. Game 
!
WINNER OF 
METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER PRESENTS 
ACARLO PONTI PROOUCTION DAVID LEAN'S FILM 
OF BORIS PASTERNAKS 
DOCTOR 
ZHi\1\.GO 



troh ~Light 'Trim Dowrl' Party 
two cans for '1 ° 

1I2 the p_~ice 112 the calories twice the fun 


tickets, transportation to and from Cleveland, and hotel accommodat­ions are· being offered by the Cleveland Club. Tickets for a pre-game pep rally/dance and a post-game celebration are also being offered. 
Students wishing further infor­mation may call Chris at 1798, Dave at 1153, or Roberta at 4-1-4489. 
M 

Tonight 9 til close 
By GINA OJpley News Senice 

ARIES: (March 21 to April 19)­Take on jobs and asaignments that get your recognition for your abllittes. Use diplomacy and tact to advance yourself. Reach agreements with those in authority. Display your wit and vttaltty on the social scene. TAURUS: (April ~ to May 20)­Your tension now 18 self-1n!Ucted as a result of wanting to do your very best on the job. New acquaintances come into your social life with the promtae of great enjoyment ·in the months ahead. Be sure to get enough rest. GEMINI: (May tl to June 20)­Expend your efforts toward your career ambitions and gaining more financial independence. Be a loyal friend to one in need and help all you can. Some Geminis • may change their reiiJ.dence now or in the tuture. CANCER: (June Zl to July !%)­Your moods could seriously affect domestic and famlly happiness. Seek cooperation from family members and don't take yourself so seriously. Discuss problem areas with famlly members and seek agreements. LEO: (July 28 to Aug. U)­Changes in your personal life bring you into contact with new people and acttvtties. Don't reatst! Health improves and your personality gets better too. Be outgoing and keep in touch with frlenda. Don't be a gouip. VIRGO: (Aq. 13 to Sept. H)-A situation you've been working on ts nearing solution. Channel your energies toward a team effort and everyone wtns! Direct yourself to work projects, putting in overtime if necessary. You're organized. UBR.\: (Sept. 28 to Oct. 22)-You are truly inspired now and are going through a self-transformation. Listen to whatever sourc"" of wisdom become avalldle. You are beginning a new cycle and must be prepared to accept op­portunities as they occur. SOORPIO: (Oct. 28 to Nov. 21)· Take the tnitlatlve in un. deratanding, and you can make a new friend. Watch diet and sleep 
routines now· to preserve your energy. Good time to upgrade your personal appearance and add to your wardrobe. SAGITI'ARIUS: (Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)-0rga.nize your energy and focus on a goal, rather than scattering your forces. Make a priorities list.~ CUrb tendency to be scrappy and guard against Impatience. Hostue actiol).s could boomerang. 1 CAPRICORN: (Dec. 22 to Ja.o. 11)-Enjoy your high spirits. An unexpected phone call could bring good news. Work goes well and health 111 good. Entertain 
52 Draws 

ACROSS 

57 1962 Elvis hit 24 Scandinavian 1 Positions {3 wds.) capita1 5 Letter on a key 60 Car gauge 25 Song or songstress 
10 Tory opponent 61 Fit to be tied 26 Mrs. Peron 14 Mishmash 62 Screen Tarzan, -27 Registerett ­15 Buenos -Lincoln 28 Wrath 16 Socks 63 Having oomph 29 Defied 17 1956 ElVis hit 64 Taunted 30 Language 
(2 wds.) 65 "Break -!" peculiarity 20 Questionable 31 College in Memphis
remedies-32 German port 21 Lookers DOWN ~ 37 Like most colleges 22 Luau music-maker 1 Bathroom 38 "Woe is me!" 23 Dumbbell 2 Margarine 39 Despite, for short 25 1963 Elvis hit 3 Prejudice 41 "West Side Story" 
( 3 wds.) 4 Do post office character 33-tower work 42 Frost's "I Gave 34 Cohort 5 Japanese drama Them a -" 35 Headlight setting 6 Cadets of Colorado 44 With humor 36 Evening, in news-Springs 45 The fourth ­
papers 7 Certain leader, for 46 Like some lines 37 Mr. Ponti short 49 Switch positions 39 Even 8 Sweet -50 Debauchee 40 Dined 9 Word in JFK phrase 51 Holly 41 Mr. Porter 10 "... it's-know" 52 Pequod's skipper 42 Glistened 11 Table d'-53 -code 43 1958 Elvis hit 12 River to the Elbe 54 Prison part 
(2 wds.) 13 Colloids 55 Domesticate 47 Disencumbers 18 End-of-letter 56 Component of L.A. 48 Oriental actor, word air 
Jack-19 Like a steeplechase 58 Hairpiece 49 Celestial hunter course 59 Prefix for cycle 
Oktoberfest Calendar Wednesday Oct. 4 8:00pm Oktoberfest Night at Senior Bar 
• rafjle for portable T·V· · (21 ID's 
• ·Oktober.fest T -shirts on sale e shuttle bus decorated Thursday Oct. 5 11 :00-1 :15 ballons given out at dining halls 
4:30-6:15 German dinner with German band & skits at SMC dining hall 
6:30 haU decorating contest judging 
8:00 "Dr. Zhivago" Carroll HaU-SMC 
Friday Oct. 6 3:00-6:00 Happy hour & Gong Sh.ow at Goose's Ne.t 9:00-? Biergarten&donu with Hot Sprilyp 12 midnight-winner of T.V. raffle announced Saturday Oct. 7 
8:00 "Dr. Zhi"ago" at CarroU HaU-SMC 
hS.ppy. Make time for relaxation 
and leisure. 

AQUARIUS: (Ja.a. 20to Feb. 111)­
You can feel adventurous and 
eome of you may start a ·long 
journey. New people, with dif­
ferent backgrounds than yours, 
are coming into your life. Single 
Aquartans could opt for marriage 
at th1s time. 

PI8CE8: (Feb. lt to Marcil 10)· ·Evaluate past accompllshments and take stock of where you are goal-wise. Be realistic about your jointfinances budget. Figure out new ways to economize. Some of . you could change, or enlarge, 
23 Gherk-in 1<1n 

---------------------------------------------------------------------.~--~.-~ 
Tuesday, (kjober3, 1978 the observer 7 
JU-. I 
~ 
I 


Urban plunge fosters greater social awareness 
Fr. Don McNeill, chairperson of Religious Studies at ND and participation, as well as their starting last March and coptinuing the Urban Plunge Task Force and .SMC respectively, ~nil CT(.A_ .as enthusiasm. over the summer, to improve theby John McGrath Director for the Center for Experi­well as the Catholic ·comaltteeon "We have four graduates from program." • 
ential Learning, explained that Urban Ministry, (CCUM). .Notre Dame who are now working According to Blanco,who made 
Applications for urban Plunge "the program helps a lot of Fr. Jim Ford, Director of CCUM, with urban social groups in Hous-his "plunge" last year in the '79 are now available at the student" in a very short time to see explained, "We have compiled a ton as well as three in Portland," Miami metropolitan area, "I Campus Ministry Office on the first anotber. alternative life style. list of over 5,000 contacts. With commented McNeill, adding, "the wouldn't call it a huge turning floor of the Memorial Library, at McNeill, who has been with the this list, we can put the program in students who have been working on point in my life, but it sure did the Saint Mary's College Religious program from its conception four contact with people in all kinds of the task force have been excellent. create a greater social awareness Studies office (Rm. 158 Madeleva), year ago, said that the project has settings in the country." He They've really done a lot of work, for me personally." and through dorm representatives. grown each year. "We started off 
~~d:d·p~~C~Mt~: r~~~~nhacr:n~~ ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::,
Applications must be submitted by with about 20 people in January of Friday. _ 1976, and we have grown until last 
program. We feel "it is really;::: 

Homecom•·ng Pac,ages ~==: 
Urban Plunge is an annual year we had 164 -and even that important to play an active role in :::: ft, :~;~; ·project that enables students to could have been higher if it were backing up what Fr. McNeill is:;;: :;:;: learn for themselves the problems not for the bad weather," he said. doing." :;:: ::::: of injustice, poverty and ·apathy in The Urban Plunge counts for . W_hile invo~ved in the 48-hour:f Will be on sale in the ticket office r 
American cities through brief live­one-credit hour with the Notre hve-m expenence, students are.;:: · :::: in experiences in ·urban areas Dame Theology Department as ~osted by_persons a~d ?rg~niz~-:t in· La Fortune 12-4 o'clock through~~~=
throughout the country. "The Church and Social Action", twns workmg for soc1al JUStice_ m :;:;: • :;:; "There's a lot in the world that and with the Religious Studies the urban a~e~~-. Some typ1cai;;:;: Friday :;:;Notre Dame students don't even Department of Saint Mary's as "plunge". activities mclude to~IrS oq:: package includes ~=~: 
know about but should, because "Religion and Values. " l urban neighborhoods and d1scus-:·:· :·:·: someday they are going to be in the In addition to the actual sions with neighborhood leaders:~:: 2 G.A. Pitt Football Tickets :~:~: positions of power," commented "plunge", there is an orientation a?~ut their problems and concerns, ~~~: 2 Neil Young Concert Tickets :f
Gina Giovannini, a senior who took workshop on Oct. 15 and a final v1s1ts to homes for runaways and :::: ::::: the "olunge" last year in the preparatory meeting of the out­homes for the elderly and inside) ·A Homecoming dance ticket ::~:: Washington, D.C. metropolitan going groups. on Dec. 1. Readings looks into urban political and ;:;: • ;:;:; area. include articles con­


R the observer Tuesday, October 3, 1978 Winnin-g streak reaches 26 

. 
t Irish defeat Dayton with second half outburst 
game-winner for Notre Dame 
Klos added an insurance goal for the Irish a few minutes later on a scuffle in front of the Dayton goal. Terry Finnegan chipped a pass back to Tom Crotty from the pile-up, and Crotty ricocheted the ball off the Dayton goaltender, and Klos knocked the rebound into the open net. 
Coach Rich Hunter was very happy with the team's effort in this very physical game, as several players from both teams sustained minor injuries. "We controlled the game throughout," Hunter said. "Even when they·scored those two early goals, we still were out­playing Dayton." 
Irish shut-out the Boilermakers 
On Friday night, a large crowd, including a portion of the Notre Dame band, turned out at Cartier Field to watch the Irish shut-out Purdue, 3-0. The whitewashing .:.' ·>' • ."' ..>:-:·.;:·~· was the fifth of the season for Notre Dame. 
Pressure defense was again the ball in off a corner kick for the final"key to the Irish win, as the Purdue on the defense for the Irish goal.
Boilermakers could only manage remainder of the first half. With 12 Notre Dame goaltender Brian two shots on goal for the entire and a half minutes left, Jim Rice Cullather got his only serious test 
game. lifted a high pass in front of the late in the game. Purdue's leftRoman Klos opened the scoring Purdue goal. Kevin Lovejoy out­wing came down uncontested on a
for Notre Dame with about 14 fought the Purdue goalie for the break-away, but Cullather dove tominutes expired in the first half. ball, and on the second bounce his right to knock the low line drive 
Klos took the ball at midfield, headed the ball into the open net to shot out of bounds and preserve the dribbled to the left side of the give the Irish a 2-0 half-time lead. 
Irish shut-out.

Purdue end, and from nearly 35 Notre Dame's pressure The Irish take the road againyards rifled a high line drive past 
continued in the second half, today, as they face Goshen College the s-urprised Purdue goaltender although the Irish could not con­beginning at 4 p.m. On Saturday,into the left-hand corner of the nect on any solid shots. 
Finally the Irish face the Michigan State net. with twenty minutes left in the Spartans in East Lansing, begin­The Iris~ continued to keep game, Tim Nauman headed the 
ning at 10:30 a.m. 

Irish drop two after 19-1 win 
by Mike Henry winner Mike Bobinski and pitched and send Indiana State ahead. Two Sports Writer two scoreless innings. Bobinski more runs off Tim Handrich in the was forced to depart after his elbow seventh clinched the victory. stiffened. Notre Dame only managed three Notre Dame's baseball team had Friday's game with Bradley hits off two pitchers in losing the four games scheduled for this past turned into a Iaugher when Notre nightcap 4-0. The Irish loaded the 
weekend and at about 10:30 am Dame scored thirteen runs in the bases in the first on hits by Pullano Saturday, coach Tom Kelly had a fourth inning. The Irish had taken and Simmendinger, sandwiched right to be ecstatic. Friday a 3-0 lead in the second on Dan around a walk, but Valenzuela afternoon's contest with Bradley Voellinger's triple, Dave Bartish's lined wickedly into a double play. turned into a 19-1 joyride and after rbi single, a walk, and a two-bag­After that, the strong Indiana St. 
three innings Saturday the Irish ger by Mark Simmendinger, before club rolled past the discouraged had jumped ahead 4-1. But, with the floodgates burst. The key Irish. Marty Vouno pitched well in Bob Barttett hurling strongly, the blows were doubles by Rick Pullano relieffor.Notre Dame, but the issue rains came to Jake Kline Field, and Mark Jamieson and a three­had already been decided. 
postponing the game. The Irish run homer by catcher Jim Monta­The fall slate still stands at a may have left their bats out in the gano. Pullano and Montagano rather gaudy 6-3, due in large part 
downpour, for Sunday's double­each collected two hits during the to the following statistics: Pullano header with Indiana State saw explosion. is battinI' .448 and has a pheno­them tally just two runs while Unfortunately, Sunday's twin bill menal o55 on base percentage; losing 5-2 and 4-0. saw no such abuse of Indiana St.'s Simmendinger stands at .406 and 
Kelly still was able to find bright pitching staff. Still, the Irish led has been on base fifty per cent of spots throughout the weekend. 2-1 behind the neat twirling of the time; Valenzuela is hitting .411; One of these was the continued Mark Ladd, before the witching and Jamieson;<: at .342 for the fall. 
excellence being displayed by hour struck for the senior right­Additionally, • tllano, Jamieson, freshman Henry Valenzuela. hander. His error on a short and Simmendinger have each dri­"Henry has stepped in and done a trickier put men on first and ven in seven runs. 
job," Kelly commente"d. "And, second. Then, Ladd juggled ano­Notre Dame is off until Saturday, three of his seven hits (the Tam pan ther bleeder long enough to allow when the squad travels to Valparai­is batting .411) have been triples. 
both runners to advance on a so. They return home for a Sunday And, he's gaining invaluable ex­fielder's choice. The next Syca­game at Jake Kline Field vs. 
more batter nubbed a grounder Tri-State. Admission is free as theperience."Another rookie who dis­that stayed on the first base chalk Irish hope to be 8-3 after this week. 
tinguished himself was St. Louis native Steve Vierling, who relieved line long enough to score both runs 
·.::·:· :·... . 
The Notre Dame soccer team boost~ their record to 10-0 with. wi~s over Dayton and Purdue. 
Defense key to Redskin victory 
W ASIDNGTilN [API -Mark held Dallas to a llJ-yard field goal On Washington's second posses­Mosley booted field goals of 52, 42 after the Cowboys had gained a sion of the game, Riggins burst and 27 yards and the hardhitting first-and-goal on the Redskin 2. thrnugh the center of the CowboyWashington defense shut down the Tony Dorsett, the NFC's leading defense for 21 yards, setting upvaunted Dallas offense Monday rusher, was collared for a 1-yard Mosley's first three-pointer.night as the undefeated Redskins loss on third down by linebackers 
Theismann opened the second 
bested the Cowboys 9-5 before HaroldMcCiinton, Brad Dusek and period with completions of 19 and President Carter and a national Houston. 14 yards to wide receivers John television audil!nce. Rafael Septien then came on and McDaniel and Ricky Thompson. 
Washington quarterback Joe kicked Dallas' first points of the The two sideline receptions set up 
Theismann added insult to injury game. Mosley's 42-yard· shot. by prancing out of the end zone on The Cowboys returned the favor the game's final play to give the on the next possession, holding the Women's B-ball 
Cowboys a safety. Redskins to a Mosley field goal 
A Ken Houston interception in . after Washington had gained a tryous today the end zone and a third-quarter first-and-goal on the Dallas 8. goalline stand by Washington Both teams effectively moved the The Notre Dame women's varsi­blunted the only serious Cowboy· ball between the 20-yard lines. ty basketball team will be holding threat of the night. Staubach amassed 212 yards pas-tryouts tonight beginning at 7 p.m. 
Houston, the Redskins' strong sing while Theismann threw for in the A.C.C. pit. The tryouts are safety, stepped in front of a Roger 156. But while Dorsett was held to open to all undergraduate women Staubach pass intended for Drew 61 yards on 21 carries, Redskin students at Notre Dame. if you Pearson in the third period. John Riggins romped for a game­have any questions, contact coach Minutes earlier, Washington had high 96 yards on 19 attempts. Sharon Petro at 6222 or 8119. 
by Mark Perry Sports Writer 
Overcoming defensive lapses early in the first half, the Notre Dame soccer team stormed back to defeat the Dayton Flyers, 4-2, before nearly four thousand stunned partisans at Dayton's Baujan Field Sunday afternoon. 
The win over Dayton, the first road game of the season for Notre Dame, boosted the Irish season record to 10-0, and increased their winning streak to 26 straight games, still the top winning streak for any major college in the country. 
Notre Dame controlled the ball for most of the game, but the alert Flyers capitalized on two breaks to open up a 2-0 lead in the first half. This marked the first time this season that the Irish have trailed by more than one goal, and also the first time they have allowed more than one goal in a game. 
The spectators were still settling in their seats when Dayton took the opening kickoff and scored eight­een seconds later. Ernie Escobar ofthe Flyers took the first pass and chipped the ball past the surprised Irish defense in front of the net. Notre Dame goalie Brian Cullather could not reach the ball in time, as Tomas Wong took the ball and lined it into the net to give Datyon the lead. 
Dayton added to their lead with about 17 minutes expired in the first half, as fullback Don Flinn booted a high shot from 30 yards out off a pass from Steve Kalinoski. 
Cullather was screened on the play, and could not pick up the ball until it was nearly past him into the net. 
From this point on the Irish controlled action, as constant pressure kept the Flyers bottled up in their own enrl. This pressure paid off with nearly 22 minutes gone in the first half, as Kevin Lovejoy gave the Irish a great mental lift with the first goal of the game for Notre Dame. Lovejoy took a chip from Jim Sabitus just past the midfield strip, dribbled the ball into the left side of the Dayton end, and lifted a shot from about 25 yards out past the outstretched hands of Dayton goalie Dave Zawaski. 
The Irish kept the pressure on for the remainder of the half, but went to the locker room still trailing 2-1. 
The deficit did not last long, as the Irish tied the score with less than two minutes expired-in the second half. Ted Carnevale came down the right wing, chipped the ball in front of the net, where Nick Schneeman outfought several players to get a head on the ball and put it past Mike Beehler, Dayton's second half goalie, to knot the score at 2-2. 
Dayton's only threats for the remainder of the game came on breakaways, as the Irish continued to control the ball and the momen­tum of the game. 
The Irish finally took the lead when Bill Ralph came down the right side uncontested, dribbled the ball to the right post, and then lifted a perfect cross to the left side, where Roman Klos was there to head the ball in and score the 



Yankees win AL East 
BOSTON [API -Bucky Dent two hits by Torrez for six innings, rallied the New York Yankees with rallied with one out in the seventh. a three-run homer in the seventh Singles by Chris Chambliss and inning and Reggie Jackson appliecj Roy White started the rally. Pinch 
the finishing touch with a home run hitter Jim Spencer flied to left for in the eighth as the 1977 World the second out, but Dent followed Series champions hung on for a 5-4 with a curving shot into the friendly victory over the Boston Red Sox screen for a homer, his fifth of the and won the American League East year. 
title in a playoff Monday. The Yankees got another run in 
The Yankees East champions for the inning as Mickey Rivers the third straight year, will begin walked, stole second and scored on the best-of-five AL championship Thurman Munson's double to left 
playoff series at Kansas City center. Munson, who had struck against the Royals Tuesday night. out his first three times at bat 
Southpaw Ron Guidry earned his against Torrez, connected against 25th victory against only three reliever Bob Stanley. losses, with late-inning relief from The Yankees got the decisive run Rich Gossage. in the eight when Jackson led off 
Gossage, after yielding two runs against Stanley with a towering in the eighth, ended the uprising drive into the center• field bleachers by getting Butch Hobson on a fly for his 27th homer of the season. ball for the second out of the inning In the bottom of the eighth, Jerry and striking out dangerous George Remy doubled and Yastrzemski Scott. singled him home for Boston's 
Guidry. who hurled two consecu­third run. Carlton Fisk then tive two-hit shutouts against the singled and Fred Lynn delivered Red Sox in September, was nicked an RBI single before Gossage for a run as 39-year-old Carl retired Hobson and Scott. Y astrzemski drilled a homer into The Red Sox had one final shot in the right field stan{is leading off the ninth when, with one out, the second. It was Yastrzemski's Burleson walked and Remy lined a 17<h hnmer of the season and No. single to right which Lou Piniella 383 of his career. lost in the sun. Rice, the major 
The '{ed Sox added a run in th~ league's home run and slugging 'iixth on a dvuble by Rick Burleson, champion, flied to right, and a sacrifice. and a single by Jim Rice. Y astrzemski .popped foul to Nettles The Yankees, checked on jus to end the ~arne. 







