
CLC to hold formal elections Sunday 
by Laurie Lee Foss office. Union. from Keenan, Fr. Thomas Tallar­plained •'The SLC got bogged
The four newly elected repre­Paczesny and Dean of Students ida, of Zahm; Fr. Mario Pedi, from down in lots of general issues. The sentatives will take office at the James Roemer are also council St. Ed's; Ann Payne, from Lewis CLC in past months has been able next CLC meeting, scheduled for members, attending every third and Sr. Vivian Whitehead, of Breen to deal with a number of problems The Campus Life Coucil (CLC) next Wednesday. Meetings will be CLC meeting. Neither Paczesny Phillips. specific to halls." "We think we will hold its first formal elections held throughout the remainder of nor Roemer has the power to vote, Elections will be held later to can continue the council this way in for hall vice-president representa­the semester, and the"council plans but each actively participates in determine the rectors on next the years ahead. The CLC will to consider proposals dealing with
tives this Sunday evening, accord­discussions, year's CLC, according to Mc­particularly deal with hall problems 
ing to Andy McKenna, student fire regulations and the loft policy, The present hall vice-president Kenna. The HPC representative of fire safety, general maintenance body president. McKenna said yesterday. 
representatives for the CLC are Jim will be chosen in a vote at an HPC and continued improvement of Four representatives, two each · The CLC, which acts as an Flaherty of Morrissey, Tim Nickels meeting before the end of the social space," he added. 
from each the north and south advisory council to Vice-President from Howard, Ed Andrle from semester, while the Student Union According to McKenna, "The quads, will be chosen by a vote of for Student Affairs Bro. Just Pa­Stanford and Jim Ladner from representative will be appointed by CLC can be a ver~ successful all hall vice-presidents. Candi­czesny, includes four hall vice-pre­
Grace. All are juniors. None of Student Union Director Bill Roche, vehicle for fulfulling student needs. dates submitted their nominations sidents, six rectors, two faculty them is seeking re-election.-McKenna stated. We feel that in order for it to be 
Thursday. Each candidate wrote a members, the Student Body Presi­The six rectors who serve on the ber to replace the Student Life useful, lots of views must be letter stating his qualifications, dent and one representative from council include Fr. Eugene Gorski Council (SLC). McKenna ex-brought before it in the year ahead, aspirations and motives for seeking both the HPC and the Student of Howard, Fr. Richard Conyers, The CLC was created last Octo-and that's what we plan to do." 


server 
Friday, April14, 1'178 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 117 

As the days get longer with the arrival of spring, so do the shadows. [Photo by Beth Corbin] 
In South Africa

Walshe discusses rac1al cr1ses 
by Beth Jones 
Dr. Peter Walshe. associate pro­fessor of international relations and government at Notre Dame, spoke last night on the roots of the current crisis in southern africa. The lecture, held in the library lounge. was the fifth in a series of talks presented during ''One Earth Week." 
Walshe, a native of South Africa, explained the present u~rest. of South Africa. by tocusmg 
on the major groups involved in the conflict. Of a population of 25 million, 18 million are black. four million are white and the remaining three million are coloreds and Indians, he said. 
The white minority first clashed with the black majority over the settlement of land in the seven­teenth centurv. Walshe said. This confrontation-evolved into an eco­nomic one. which he stated, even­tually led to a "case· of racial discrimination and class exploita­tion." 
Ever since the racial and class 
boundaries were formed, unrest 
has become pervasive in South 
Africa, Walsh explained. Until the 
Second World War, this-unrest 
remained peaceful, he said. Since then. Walshe continued. the black voice has emerged more forcefully and openly in hopes of achieving "a non-racial South Africa. •· 

All the blacks' efforts achieved were repression and death, he stated. The 1960's opened with the Sharpesville shooting of 69 black men, according to Walshe. He explained that blacks were forced under ground, and a state of "repressed stability" existed throughout South Africa, during this period. and on into the 1970's. 
More than a thousand deaths have been rel:orded since the initial Sharpes, ille shooting. Walshe said. In June 1976. 400 grade school and high ;,chool black child­ren were shot down in Soweto by white police officers. he continued. and the world became involved el:onomica.llv. politically, and ethi, cally. 
"What started off as a South 
On Academic Council 
Senate tables proposal 
by David Rumbach Senior Staff Reporter 
The Faculty Senate tabled a proposal last night that would have requested a member of the Senate be added to the executive commit­tee of the academic Council. 
The proposal was aimed at alleviating what some senators see as a disadvantage the Senate has in presenting its proposals to the Academic Council. 
Because the Council's executive committee reviews the agenda prior to the main session, it can prepare its responses to Faculty Senate proposals. 
•'They can prepare their answers but we, in effect, have to respond spontaneously and without prepa­ration," one senator stated. 
Senate Secretary Ken Good­paster, an assistant professor of philosophy, critized the procedure by which faculty proposals are 

African debate, became a debate---------------, 
for the Third World." Walshe commented. 
According to Walshe, indepen­dence and black majority rule in Angola and Mozambique in the early 1970's gave South African black renewed hope, he explained, "For the first time the prospect of· power appeared a possibility, both · politicaly and psychologically.'' 
Change is clearly taking place, he stated. In a land where oppresive political, social' and eco­nomic rule was sustained by a white legal system for almost a century. progress is coming. he said. 
The goals of the blacks call for an end to racism and a "redistribution of the economic order," Walshe explained, but the emergence of the black power raises problems of the United States. 
Ever since the discovery of gold and diamonds in South Africa, it has bt:~;:n an area of important economic development for multi­national corporations, he pointed out. 
The United States. according to Walshe. has been at the forefront of this corporate development and financir.g, in collaboration with the white kaders. He "aised the question, "Is the United States 
[continu~d on page 7) 


Housing contract due tomorrow 
Students are reminded that signed housing contracts must be returned to the Housing Office, third floor Administration building, ':ly tomorrow. 

brought before the Council. 
Discussion at the meeting brought out the fact that faculty representatives often drop certain Senate proposals when they think it will improve their chances of getting preferred proposals passed. · 
"Representatives must make practical decisions during the 
meeting so some proposals sent from the Senate are never brought up at the Council," Goodpaster stated. 
Professor James Dougherty, an associate professor of English and chairman of the Senate Administra­tion Committee, also criticized the process. "Surely there must be a less unwieldy procedure to get things out of this group and into the Academic Council," he stated. 
In other business, Dougherty distributed questionaires concern­ing the provost advisory committee on appointments and tenure deci­
• 

sions. 
The Senate discussed at length the _idea of "formalizing" this group during its March meeting before sending it back to Dough­erty's committee. 
Katharina Blackstead, an assis­tant librarian and chairman of the Faculty Affairs Committee, announced that a pamphlet compar­ing Notre Dame's faculty salaries with those in Big Ten schools and peer institutions had been revised and expanded as suggested by the Senate at the February meeting. 
Finally Senate Chairman Paul Conway an associate professor of Finance, announced that funds for a program to enable teachers to eat in the dining halls four times each month had not been found. 
The program was approved last month in conjunction with efforts by the Senate's Student Affairs Committe to "informalize" stu­dent-teacher relationships. 
• 
Friday, April14, 1978
the observer 


Weather 

Increasing cloudiness and warmer Friday. Mostly cloudy with a chance of showers and thunderstorms Friday night and Saturday. Highs Friday in the upper 50s to low 60s. Lows Friday night in the 40s. Highs Saturday in the 50s. 
~On Campus Today_........... 
friday 

11 am-one earth marketplace, rathskeller, Iafortune 5 pm 
12:15 pm biology travel series, "moscow," theodre crovello, 278 galvin aud. 
2:30 pm meeting, "reflections in the wake of two recent trips to israel," rev. david burrel, c.s.c and prof robert wilken, 
n.d. sponsored by the american professors for peace in the middle east, rare book room, mem lib. 
3&6 pm presentation, films etc., sponsored by alcohol awareness week, lib. bar 
3 pm art talk film series, "louise oougeois," spon by art gallery, no charge, art gallery. 
3 pm seminar, "group b. streptococcal infections & im,mu­nity," dr. samuel getloff, micheal reese ctr., chicago, sponsored by the dept of micro-biology, 102 galvin life aud. 
3-6 pm happy hour library 

4 pm lecture, "minority recruitment program at delaware state univ., " prof john olsen asss., dean univ. of delaware, sponsored by the chem eng dept. , open to all students, black cultural arts center, second floor, Iafortune 
4:30 pm lecture, "biholomorphic maps, " prof. john e. fornaess, princton univ., spon by the math dept., ccmb 
7 pm bible study group meeting, "college life," sponsored by campus crusade for christ, howard hall chapel. 
7& film, "a star is born," sponsored by stud. union, 10 pm admission $1, engr. aud. 
7:30pm one earth lecture, Z"people's authority-direct democ­ratic theory," ibrahim el-sharif, libyan arab jamahiriya embassy, mem lib. aud. 
8 pm lecture, "are we running out of time?" dr. melvin kranzber, ga inst. of technology, sponsored by the sigma xi, open to the public, lower level of the c.c.e. 
saturday 
8 am meat, engr. aud. 

8 am test, lsat, 127 nieuland sci hall 
1 pm baseball, nd vs ball state doubleheader. 
7& film, "a star is born," spon by student union, admission 10 pm $1, engr. aud. 
7:30 pm one earth int'l festuval an evening of cultural entertainment from around the world, reception follow­ing in the rathskeller, washington hall 
9-2 pm presentation, for alcohol awareness week, smc 21 club 
sunday 

2 pm lacrosse, nd vs indiana home, cartier 
2pm mass for friends of the mentally retarded and I'arche, moreau seminary 
3 pm senior recital sharon pocus -piano, sponsored by the dept of music, little theatre 
3:15 pm masters recital, lisa funston mahoney, flute, sponsored by the dept. of music, mem lib. 
7 pm lecture, discussion, "management of the poisoned patient," james hillman, m.d., dir of pioson control, childrens hospital, akrom , oh., sponsored by the stud. nurses assoc., carroll hall smc 
7:15 pm vespers-dedicatory organ recital, dr. robert anderson, prof and head of organ dept., so methodist univ., performing on organ, sponsored by dept. of music, sacred heart church. 
7:30 pm lecture, "africa, the dark continent?" prof. peter walshe, nd, sponsored by the humanities seminar of freshman writing program, open to the public, mem. lib. aud. 
8 pm foreign film, "zazie," louis malle, sponsored by int'l festival showcase film, admission $1, c.c.e. aud. 
10-12 pm entertilinment/, jaime goodrich, admission is free, sponsored by the Keenan hall, keeniln celler. 
Mother, daughter die 


Ailing uncle shoots relatives 
PHILADELPHIA rAP)-Every Wed­nesday for the past four years Alvina Turnier and her daughter , Irene , drove 23 miles to visit the mother's ailing 67 year old uncle, taking him groceries , cleaning his house, and occasionally shaving him. 
This week, neither returned from 
their mercy mission. Police say the 
uncle, Nicholas Andreassi, shot 
and killed both women shortly after 
they arrived with two bags of food. 
Andreassi, an emphysema victim 
who weighs only 90 pounds, 

thought Mrs. Turnier, 57 was 
stealing from him, police said. 

The retired machinist himself summoned police to the scene, where they found him sitting on the living room sofa in his pajamas, still hooked up to the 47 foot long 
BGU to offer coaster course 

BOWU..'-i'G GREEN, Ohio [AP)­
Students can earn academic credit 
by riding roller coasters and wri­
ting about the experience in a 
three-day course being offered this 
summer by Bowling Green State 
University. 

The class, "Coastermania-A Conference on Coaster Culture,,' will meet at Cedar Point amuse­ment park near Sandusky, said Ray Browne, director of the school's Center for Study of Popular Cul­ture. 
Tuition will be $65, and $10 in fees will be charged to cover the rides, Brown said Thursday. Undergraduates who complete the course will earn two hours of credit. 
Browne said Cedar Point is "the Harvard of roller coasters" be­cause it has so many of the rides. 
Officials at Cedar Point said there are currently five roller coasters in operation with a sixth expected this summer. 
He stressed that although part of the class time will be spent on the thrill rides, the seminar won't be all fun and games. 
"Those enrolled will be given a reading list prior to the first class meeting," he said, "and they will be expected to write a paper on the roller coasters as well as attend class sessions." 
He said lectures will be given by sociologists, architects, art his­torians, engineers and others who will discuss roller coasters from their own perspectives. 
Clubs, organizations should register 

All undergraudate clubs and organizations are asked to stop by the Student Activities office by May 1 to register their organization for the 1978-79 academic year. Additionally, any club interested in entering the lottery for football game concession stands should do so immediately. 


ERRATUM 

The Interhall Music Competition will be held at the Nazz tonight and next Saturday, April 22, not to­morrow night, as stated in yester­day's Observer. Additionally, the prize for second place will be $35 and not $30, as reported yesterday. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vac.atlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mery's College. Subscriptions may be purdlaaed for uo per year (S 11 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. llox Q, Notre Dame, lndlen. 46556. 5eCDnd claas post..• paid, Notre Dame, lndlalle, 4US6. 
The Ob1erver Is a member of the AsiOdated PN11. All repro­duction n.llts ere re1erved. 
tube that always runs from his nose to an oxygen tank. A .32 caliber automatic handgun lay before him on a coffee table, tlolice said. 
Andreassi was c.:arried from the house on a stretcher and taken to St. Luke's Children and Medical Center where he was reported in poor condition Thursday, suffering from an apparent attack of emphy­sema, a chronic lung disease. 
"We don't know why it happen­ed. We found out through the news. My father found out on television," said Harry Turnier Jr., 32, of Denver PA. The victims were his mother and sister. 
"As far as anything else, I can't say. They were taking him food for the last couple of years. He was confined to the house. He was going to move in with them. They all got along well," he said. 
Harry Turnier, husband and father of the victims, said that he fixed up a two room apartment with a bath in his own home last December so that Andreassi could move in, but Andreassi refused the invitation. 
Turnier said a nurse who lives with the family to care for a sick aunt often went with his wife and daughter on the weekly visits. But he said the nurse was out of town Wednesday. 
Police said Mrs. Turner died at the head. Her 27 year-old daugh­ter, a bank loan official who lived with her parents, died at a nearby hospital with a gunshotwound in her upper left shoulder, officials said. 

At a bedside arraignment early Thurday, Andreassi was charged with murder on two counts and a weapons offense, and ordered held without bail for a hearing April 19.
f%The Observerl 
Night Editor: Tim Sullivan 
Asst. Night Editor: Bob Brink 

layout  Staff:  Mary  Ann  
Cooke,  Anne  Griffin,  Beth  
Jones  

Editorial layout: Rosemary Mills Features layout: Reed King Sports layout: Mark Perry, Tony Pace Typists: Stacy Weaver, Mary McCauley Early Morning Typists: Rich Clarizio, Lisa DiValerio Day Editor: Tom Nilsson, John McDermott Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Ad layout: J.P. O'Connel, Gene Trzupek 

(hotographer: Beth Corbin 
J 

the scene with a gunshot wound in 
INew Jrmior Advisory Cowtcil I 
Applirolions due by Wedneday, 
• April19 in student acliviJies. 
Must include summary ofpeN • inoolument and idros for next JmT• 
Submit~ for~ T..shirt e by Friday, April 28 -$10 prize 




SMC 21 CLUB 
Applications Now Accepted For: 1978 -79 ·Manager 
·Assistant Manager ·Bartender/Checker Apply by Friday, April 14, 1978 
at the Student Activities Office 
all CNer the v.a1d sold 

in the basement of LaFortune from Noon to 5 •  
Lecture Tonight 7:30 PM Dr. Ibrahim EI-Sharif, Cultural collncelor of the Socialist Peoples Libian Arab Jamahiriya Embassy. "People's Authority -Direct Democracy Theory" Memorial Lib presents INTERNA110NAL FESIIVAL  
an evening of cultural entertainment from around the wt>rld  
SAllJRDAY 7:31 pm  

_F_ri_da~y~,_A~p_ri_l_14_~,_1_97_s______________~tuh~e~o~b~s~eKLrv~e~rL_~_3 
With new events 
An Tostal begins soon 
by Tim Sullivan Staff Reporter 

This year's An Tostal festival, which begins April 26. features many new events and will bring back a number of old An Tostal activities, according to John Roo­ney. An Tostal chairman. 
The first An Tostal "Drive-in Movie" will take place at midnight on "Frivolous Friday." April 28, featuring "Blazing Saddles." The tentative location is iii front of Rocke Memorial Gymnasium, and admission will be free. 
A three-mile run around the lakes and the campus, finishing at the south end of the north quad, is scheduled for 10:45 a.m. on "Sun­ny Saturday" April 29. Contes­tants should appear at Stepan Center 15 minutes before the start. 
Two events which will occur at the halftime of "Sunny Saturday's" touch football game are the wheel­barrow race and flour blowing. 
Megan McCready is chairman of 
the race. According to co-chairmen 
Joanne Kay and Mary Pat Ziolkow­
ski. those who think they can find a 
penny in a pie-tin of flour without 
using their hands should register 
for the flour blowing contest. 
Sign-ups will begin the end of 
next week in the dining halls for the 
Tuck-in Service, which will operate 
between 11 p.m. and midnight 
throughout An Tostal. Pairs of 
students have been selected to 
handle between five and six tuck­
ins an evening. The service costs 
25 cents. 
Two "Gentle Thursday" April 27 activities will occur on St. Mary's campus. An advanced skateboard slalom course and a flat skateboard push course will be set up at the Angela Athletic Facility for contests beginning at 5 p.m. Contestants 
will compete against the clock. 
The Guiness Book of World 
Records lists 1500 people as the 
highest number participating in a 

India questions CIA 
NEW DELHI, India (AP) -The Indian government demanded yes­terday that the United States explain reports that a secret CIA mountaineering team abandoned a nuclear device on a Himalayan peak 13 years ago. Officials are specially concerned that the radio­active material could contaminate the Ganges River, a vital waterway. 
U.S. Ambassador Robert F. Goh­een was summoned to the Foreign Ministry and was told the reports caused "great concern to the Indian government, the Indian Parliament and the Indian people," a ministry spokesman said. 
Foreign Secretary Jagat Mehta asked Goheen ·'to ascertain the truth as early as possible'' and told him "it was essential to know what hazards were involved," the spoke­sman said. 
The foreign minister, A.B. Vajpa­yce told an interviewer that if true the incident is bound to damage U .S.-Indian relations, which recent­ly have been improving. Legisla­tors planned to air the issue ori the lloor of Parliament. State Department spokesman Tom Reston said in Washington the department was checking into the report. The Foreign Ministry spokesman said Goheen promised to provide further information as soon as it became available. 
CIA Director Stansfield Turner refused to comment on the report. 
The story was published in Out­side, a publication of the American magazine Rolling Stone. 
It said a Central Intelligence Agency group in 1965 tried to plant a nuclear-powered device atop 
25.645 foot Nanda Devi. one of India's highest mountains, to moni­tor atomic test explosions inside neighboring China. 
Bad weather halted the climbers 
2.000 feet short of the summit and the nuclear powerpack was left in some rocks, only to become buried in an avalanche by the time the climbers returned the following year, the magazine said. 
It said the abandoned device contained plutonium 238, which remains dangerously· radioactive for up to 500 years. Once its outer covering corrodes, it said, the material could contaminate the Ganges watershed with cancer­
1mile north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 North 
Week Days 7:()()-9:30 Sat.Sun. 2:()()-4:30-7:()()-9:30 

causing poisons by seeping into 
tributaries of the giant river. The 
Ganges is sacred in the . Hindu 
religion and is the principal water­
way of northeastern India. 
One error in the Outside story was 
noted here. The story said the 
Central Bureau of Investigation, 
identified as India's counterpart of 
the CIA knew of the expedition but 
was asked not to mtorm the 
government. 
The Indian CBI is the counterpart 
of the American FBI, not the CIA. 
Its chief Joh Lobo, said Thursday, 
"We don't deal with these mat­
ters." Comment could not be 
obtained from Indian Intelligence 
agencies. 
African Campaign starts Sunday 
A South African Campaign is 
being held Sunday through next 
Saturday. The Campaign is being 
sponsored by The Notre Dame 
Chapter of Amnesty International, 
the international human rights 
organization. 
The Campaign is being held to 
call attention to the deteriorating 
state of human rights under the 
apartheid regime. An information 
desk with literature will be set up in 
the Memorial Library Concourse 
Sunday from 6 to 11 p.m. and 
Monday from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
./AMf OAY ft!diCE-
/ 
UlJ@]~..___. 
gU6LITY 
r61:QUIIT


JTrtnotno 
a a 

fTIIING 'PIII~f.f­
• 
TOURNNYLON I 8.00 • I.FONIA 10.00 •GAA!IA AM.tlGl£ 601 18.00 

•
V.J'. GilT 2f.OO 


l33·lt.sl I /()-5 MON-./AT jormtr/g at _$)ems 
Just South of North Village Mall-For info. dial277-1522 
"SEMI­TOUGH" 
Jill ClayburgQ·. Sorry no passes or ~ · discount . • .. · 
tickets ,).._ · 
Fri. Sat. / · •,:.. 
single game of musical chairs. An attempt will be made to break this 
record  behind  the  St.  Mary's  
dining hall at 6 p.m.  on  "Gentle  
Thursday.''  

Being revived from two years ago is the Pie-in-the-Eye Service. For . $1, anyone can contract a "hit" on anyone with whipped cream pies being donated by SAGA Food Service. The service will run from April 24-29. According to Bill Work. event chairman, clients chould call 24 hours in advance of the "hit," telling where the victim will be, and how to identify him/her by either referring to a photo in the freshman register or be describing an article of clothing the payer who should stand next to the victim will be wearing. 
Another revived event is the Greased Pig Contest which will begin at 1:30 p.m. on "Sunny Saturday" in the mud pits Teams of three will attempt to capture the pig by his hind legs within five minutes. The shortest elapsed time will win dinner for two at the Boar's Head. 
Pre-registration for the slave auction will be at the dining halls or by calling chairman Bob Fiordaliso. 
The auction will take place on "Frivolous Friday" at 2 p.m. on the south quad. 
Slaves' duties last from time of purchase to dinner. Slaves may volunteer themselves or bring a friend to be auctioned. 
The Mud Pillow Fight will return this year at 2:30 p.m. on "Sunny Saturday'' in the mud pits. Contestants fight while seated on a plank over mud, according to 
chairman Mary Clare Toffaretti. 
6/J---•IPRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGFW____._ 
Despite the oppressiveness of studies, some students find the time for diversionary activities, such as tickling the ivories. [Photo by Beth Corbin] 
Pre-advance registrarion programs will be areas on MONDAY, APRIL 17 at 6:30P.M. 
At  each  progra.n  complete  information  
procedures  and  on  the  sophomore  year  
At  some  of  the  programs  there  will  

students, as well as tours of the facilities. 
The meeting places for the programs, follows: 
conducted for freshmen in all college program 
will be given on the advance registration and its relationship to the degree curnculum. be mixers with the faculty and upperclass 
according to college program area, are as 
Arts and Letters College Programs (all, including AL Preprofessional) Engineering Auditorium 
Business Administration College Program Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122, A through G at 6:30 P.M. 
Engineering College Programs 
Aerospace Architecture Chemical Civil Electrical Engineering Science Mechanical Metallurgical 
Science College Programs 
Biology Chemistry Earth Sciences Mathematics Microbiology Physics Preprofessional 
(Science only) 

H through 0 at 7:30P.M. 
P through Z at 8:30P.M. 
Engineering Bldg., Room 303 Architecture Bldg., Room 202 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 123 Engineering Bldg., Room 205 Engineering Bldg., Room 212 Engineering Bldg., Room 22 Engineering Bldg., Room 303 Engineering Bldg., Room 5 
Galvin Life Science Center, Room 278 Nieuwland ~cience Hall, Room 331 Earth Science Bldg., Room 101 Computing Center & Math Bldg., Room 300 Galvin Life Science Center, Room 102 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 327 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 127 
ALL FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR 
...............................................................................-•.._, 

-~--~------------­
Friday, April 14, ·1978 
the observer
4 





Speakers discuss a./coho/ standards 

by Kathryn Jurgens 
Double-standards discriminating 
between men and women alcohol­
ics and the v.ays in which alcohol­
ism affects pregnancy were topics 
addressed last night by three 
speakers in a presentation at the 
Saint Mary's Clubhouse. 

The presentation, part of Alcohol 
Awareness Week, featured Dick Leavyj assistant professor of Psy­chology, Molly Sullivan, co-founder of Phoenix House,· and• Teresa Klein, of the South Bend Alcohol 
Council. 

''There is a conspiracy to ignore 
female alcoholics," Leavy stated. "there are ten million alcoholics, two million are women. It is not coincidental or accidental that fe­males are ignored. Males are the power holders in this society and also provide funding and treatment for akoholism." 
"There are 250 half-way houses in the United States. Thirty of them are for women," Klein add­ed. 
Sullivan has been working for several years on establishing a half-way house in the South Bend community. The Sisters of Holy Cross at St. Mary's recently do­nated St. Mary's Academy a girl's high school which closed two years ago, as a facility, for the recovery of female alcoholics. The facility, now called Phoenix House, is South Bend's first half-way house for women alcoholics. 
"Forty percent of the work force in the United States are women. It's curious how few referrals there are for women to alcholic clinics," 

Nleasurements will be taken for 
CAPS 
and 


GOWNS 
Wednesday April19 
and 
Thursday
April 20 


between 9:00-4:00 
at the 


stated Leavy. "Men have more sources of information to tell them they're screwing up --employers, wife." 
"Families and spouses tend to be protective of women and tend to deny that the woman is sick," Sullivan said. "Denial of the woman's sickness leads to her deeper involvement in alcohol." 
Leavy gave three "swiss cheese" rules that distinguish male and female alcqholics. Female alcoholics start drinking at a later age than men. Secondly, females have a ''telescopic'' adaptation to alcoholism --they become alco­holics quickly. Thirdly, women take other drugs with alcohol, while men just consume alcohol. 
"Trannquilizers are legally pre­scribed and recommended by phy­sicians. Valium is the second most popular drug given to women for stress," Klein stated. She expects a gigantic malpractice suit to appear in the near future against doctors who prescribe sedatives. 
Alcoholic women suffer more physical damage then men. Klein's hypothesis was that the combination of drugs used by women makes them deteriorate faster than men who consume alcohol only. 
"The department of Health, Education, and Welfare suggests a maximum of two drinks a day for a pregnant lady. The National Council of Alcoholism believes that it is the responsible decision of the woman to consider obstaining from alcohol during pregnancy," Klein stated. 
The children of women alcoholics 



®0mp~e~~ S~<=1di0 
Jurors deliberate on doctor 
SANTA ANA,Callf. [AP] • With testimony ended, attorneys pro­posed legal instructions yesterday to help jurors decide whether Dr. William Wad dill Jr. strangled a live infant after an abortion failed. 
But prosecution and defense lawyers were miles apart on a key question: In reaching a verdict, can the jury consider the moral and ethical obligations of the physici­an? 
So the private discussion in the judge's chambers were expected to take days. 
Superior Court Judge James K. Turner privately expressed to at­torneys his feelings that jurors could not consider the moral ques­tion of whether a doctor should let a brain damaged infant die. 
But defense attorneys said they would fight against such legal instruction. 
In the closing hours oftestimony, lawyers for Waddill, 42, tried to show that any doctor confronted with a blue and gasping fetus after saline abortion would have let the infant die. 
It would have been brain dam­
aged, they said.  It would  have  
been  "a  monster,"  said  a  final  
witness.  

"The baby was suffering from the effects of saline poisoning," said Dr. John Menkes, a UCLA pediatric neurologist, Wednesday. 
From birth records, Menkes concluded that "Baby Girl Wea­ver," the infant born of a saline abortion March 22, 1977, would have had no brain function if it survived. 
"We call these babies mons­ters," he said. "These monsters are born and they continue to live for awhile....They finally die, of course. They breathe and they have a heartbeat, but there is no brain function.'' 
Menkes said it was "reason­able" for Waddill to order that no extraordinary measures be used to keep the baby alive. 
Witnesses have described Wad­dill rushing to the hospital nursery 
DWAINE &BILL GOSHEN 
Representatives for the Mdropolitan Life Insurance Co., N.Y., NY For Insurance Information 
Write to: Dwaine or Bill Goshen 
St. Joseph' Valley Bank 
\21 W, Franklin Elkhart, Indiana "65'" Or Call 219-295-3940 219-293-0011 

''Alcoholism is one of the fastest growing diseases in the United States," continued Klein. She mentioned other countries, particu­lary in Europe and South America, that also have alcoholism pro­blems. 
"Women alcoholics or women that have spouses that are alcoholic end up with excess negative bag­gage," said Leavy. He continued by listing some of this "negative baggage" -stereotypical terms applied to these women; such as "very sick, deviant, promiscuous, lazy, shrews and nags." 
after hearing of the birth, ordering staff members out and saying, "Don't do a goddamn thing for that baby." 
A hospital pediatrician said he later saw a panicked Wad dill strangle the baby. Waddill has denied this from the witness stand, saying that the baby was already in its death throes when he arrived and it died of natural causes. 
"No doctor walking on the face of this earth could have resusci­tated that baby, " he said. 
Menkes said he believed that the baby had died before Waddill arrived but had been revived by frantic hospital staff members. 
"I suspect the heart had stopped at some time , and the baby was dead and they restarted the heart," " Menkes said. "It's my feeling that it wasn't a baby any more. It wasn't functioning." 
Turner scheduled final argu­ments to begin Tuesday. The case was expected to be in the jurors hands by the end of next week. 
Carter urges Mideast talks 

WASHINGTON [AP]-President Carter and Romanian President Nicolae Ceasescu called jointly yesterday for Israel to meet with Palestinian representatives in re­newed Middle East peace talks. 
In a joint declaration signed at the White House, the two presi­dents said they both are deter­mined to encourage peace in the troubled region based on Israeli withdrawal from lands occupied in the 1967 war, insurance of future security for Israle and other states, and "respect for legitimate rights of the Palestinian people." 
"To this end. they expressed themselves in favor of negotiations among all the interested parties for solving the Middle East situation, with appropriate representation of the Palestinian people," the joint declaration said. 
The reference to Palestinian representation left open the ques­tion of whether the representative should be the Palestinian Libera­tion Organization. Romania consi­ders the PLO to be sole legitimate spokesman for the Palestinians, but Israel refuses to negotiate with the PLO. 
The Romanian president, a fre­quent go between in Middle Eas­tern diplomatic moves, had urged Carter at a meeting on Wednesday to ease his own opposition to dealing with the PLO, administra­tion officials reported. 
But the Romanian president offered "nothing concrete" to back up his insistence that the PLO is moving toward accepting Israel's right to exist, according to the officials, who asked that they not be identified. 
Asked yesterday if Carter had altered his posture on PLO repre­sentation in any Mideast peace talks, Associate Press Secretary Jerrold Schecter said, "No, absolu­tely not." Thursday's joint state­ment, by calling for unspecified Palestinian representation without naming the PLO, apparently tepre­sented a compromise. 
are classified under the "fetal alcohol syndrom,'' Klein ex­plained. They can be mentally retarded, have low birth weights or have low birth lengths, she said. Babies of alcoholic women rarely match the development of normal children, she added. 
Klein stated, that "a recent research project has discovered that women on oral conterceptives will get drunk faster and stay drunk longer." 
The audience was very receptive to the information given. At one point Klein read an article from a nursing magazine that suggested 




free 

wine as a remedy for the tired mother who nurses her baby, for pregnant mothers during the pre­menstral time and during the difficult month before the birth of the child. 
The audience enjoyed the article, but showed some astonishment. A number of people raised eyebrows at statements in the article. 
Klein gave a brief history of the use of alcohol. "Fewer than half 
the  women  in  the  United  States  
drank at all b efore  1940.  Today  
two-thirds  of  the  United  States  

population, both male and female, drink," she said. 

we are looking for anyone in1eres1ed in 1eaching about fheir favori1e hobby or in1erest during fhe 
FALL 78 I 

CALL: 283-n57 or 2 virtually any topic acceptable. 
DEADLINE: april 28 
Notre Dame Student Union 


r----------~-~-­

"Igetthegreasiesbetweenshampoos!" 

·.. 

/
~;.···· \. 
' @5. C. Johnson 11nd Son, Inc., Radne. VJ!sconsln 53403 

NewAgreeShampoohelpsstopthegreasiesbetweenshampoos. 

A major hair care problem is that hair gets oily and greasy too soon after shamJXlOing. We call this condition "the greasies:· A major source of the greasies is the build up of excess oil on the scalp which spreads to the hair and attracts dirt and more oil. 
Agree's formula gently cleans 
the greasies from hair and scalp. Three years ago. a re· markable formula was discovered which ex­celled in its ability to gently clean both hair and scalp of oil and dirt. Subsequently. more than one hundred carefully controlled laboratory tests were con· 


"With Agree Shampoo,) don't have to wony about the greasies between shampoos:' 

dueled to confirm that Agree's for· mula cleans better than most leading shampoos. 
looking its 

Agree not cleans better most leading shampoos also leaves your hair with natural body. shine and manageability. Even if you sham· poo everyday. Agree will not dry out your hair leaving it with that flyaway. lifeless look 
The people of the Hair Care Labora­
tories. Personal Care Division of Johnson Wax. believe Agree is the finest shampoo. available in either salons or retail stores. Try Agree Sham­poo for your­self. 
Available in 
Regulat Extra Gentle. and Extra Oily 
Hair fonnulas. 



------~----------~-~----­
Friday, April14, 1978 the observer 
5 

Over neutron bomb 


Europeans criticize Carter's foreign policy 
Paris (AP) -President Carter's delay in deciding on the neutron warhead has intensified criticism of his foreign policies in the West European press and among govern­ment officials. Some even express doubts about his grasp of foreign affairs. 
This questioning of Washington's actions seems to be getting louder as Carter's firstyear honeymoon fades into the past and major European allies feel disappointed on critical issues. 
''The time for realities has now arrived, and it's a difficult period," said a French official, who asked not to be identified. ''People are talking about inconsistencies and vagueness, and at the same time absence of pragmatism." 
Carter announced last week he was deferring a decision on wheth­er to produce the new neutmn warhead pending evidence of new Soviet "restraint" in the arms race. The delay was interpreted by many Europeans -including both proponents and opponents of the weapon -as an inability to make a decision. 
Outlines conflicts 
Messenger discusses Ireland 
by Andy Segovia 

John Messenger, professor of anthropology at Ohio State Univer­sity, lectured on the history and problems of Ireland yesterday afternoon at the CCE. The lecture, entitled ''The Sectarian Conflict in Northern Ireland: Copper-Bronze 
Age to  1978,"  was  sponsored by  
the  sociology  and  anthropology  
departments.  

Messenger has done extensive field work in Ireland. "Between 1955 and 1978 I spent 63 months doing research in Ireland, most of it at the grassroots level," he ex­plained to a crowd of approximately 100 students and faculty. 
"I see the conflict as mainly a manifestation of religious racism,'' Messenger stated. According to Messenger, there is a strong parallel between racism towards blacks in the United States and religious racism in Ireland. 
"Most people in Northern Ire­lartd think they can spot the difference between Catholics and Protestants on sight. The prejudice is intense and the attitudes are at t times irrational," he explained. 
The anthropologist presented a 

Obud institutes rules for courts 
Rules have been instituted ro to more fairly utilize the tennis courts during times of peak usage by David Baker of Ombudsman Special Projects and Tom Fallon, tennis coach. 
The priority is l)Athletic Depart­ment sanctioned events 2)Physical education classes 3)Students, and faculty. The rules include A-Play linrited to one hour when others are waiting. B-After the courts are full players who arrive should sign the waiting sheet located on the fence at the entrance to the courts and stand by. C-When a court opens. the new players should enter the time and number of the court that they are taking on the sheets. D-Players who are waiting should stay outside the fence and help monitor the board while waiting. 
Doctor to speak on poisons 
James Hillman, M.D., director of Poison Control and assistant direc­tor of Emergency Services at Children's Hospital, Akron, OH, will spea~ on ... Management of the Poisoned Patient" at Saint Mary's on Sunday at 7 pm. The talk is being sponsored by the Saint Mary's Student Nurse's Associat­ion. The public is invited to attend. 
The respected magazine Der Spie­
gel reported that West German 
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt sees 
Carter as ''an unfathomable ama­
teur who tries to stamp his private 
morals on world politics but in 
reality is incapable of fulfilling his . role as leader of the West.'' 
Schmidt declared support Thurs­day on Carter's position on neutron weapons, making a public show of good relations. But the lack of a final decision is known to have disconcerted the Bonn govern­ment which previously had endor­sed the weapon in private. 
"The unilateral renunciation by an apparently uncertain president can only encourage the opponent to insist on his positions and demand further concessions from the Unit­ed States," wrote the conservative Swiss newspaper Neue Zuercher Zeitung. 
Even in Sweden, where official policy opposes the neutron bomb: the independent liberal newspaper Dagens Nyheter editorialized: ··carter may be a man of the Bible, but he seldom sticks to the words of scripture telling us that yes is yes 
detailed history of the Insh conflict. 
The initial seperatism between north and south was brought about by geographic reasons and thus led to the development of two different cultures, Messenger explained. ''The differences between north and south lie not only with religion but with styles of life," he added. 
"Ever since the reformation, the Catholics have been oppressed in Northern Ireland," Messenger continued. Catholics have been descriminated against politically, educationally and economically, he said. 
The IRA isn't supported by the majority of the Catholics in Ireland, Messenger emphasized. The IRA is viewed as a deterrent to unifica­tion. "The activities of the IRA could lead to a tragic civil war," he said. 
Extremists on both sides use 
adolescents effectively; said Mes­
senger. "Active participation in 
the conflict is a surrogate puberty 
right for youth," he contended. 
"A significant segment ot the 
population wishes to maintain the 
current status quo," Messenger 
stated. "Many businessmen, both 
Catholic and Protestant, find the 
current state of hostilities very 
profitable," he asserted. 
Messenger presented the o­
pinions of other anthropologists 
studying the conflict. "One author 
states that the root of the conflict 
lies in the structure of the Irish 
family" he stated. 
"The educational system of both 
sides distorts Irish history thus 
aiding in the continuation of hostili­
ties," he continued. "The tra­
ditional rebel mentality of the Irish 
people may also be a factor. "I 
have no solution for the problem," 
Messenger '""concluded. "It is too 
complicated for a simple solution, 
since the violence seems to be self 
perpetuating." 
Senior Formal Bids 
May be picked up Monday& Tuesday in LaFortune lobby and the basement of 
from 1:00 -4:30 
and no is no." 
The rough edges between the Carter administration and its Euro­pean allies stem in part from poor understanding of the U.S. system that allows Congress to help shape foreign policy. lBut even those 
aware of Carter's home-front eoni siderations are slow in coming. 
This unease is perhaps most acute in economic affairs, where Europ­eans seem unanimous in u1rging Carter to do something to halt the slide of the dollar. This week's measures against inflation in the United States seem to be judged in Europe as too little, too late. Roy Jenkins, chief European Com­mon Market executive, accused the Unites States of slipping out from under its responsibilities to those who .use the dollar as a reserve currency. The U.S. dollar, he said. is floating around the world "like legions without a central com­mand.'' 
In another crucial area, the Carter administration's efforts to enforce its recent nuclear non-proliferation law met with a studied snub. 
The month-old act requires re-


JOHN MESSENGER 
SMC Art Sho1WS continue today 

The Senior Comprehensive Art Shows at Saint Mary's continue this week with new exhibitions going on display today. 
The new shows, which will be open to the public next Wednes­day, include ceramics by Sylvana Foti, paintings by Debbie Feece, printmaking by Julie Sha.bi and photography by Eileen Macy. 
Gallery hours are 9:oo-11:00 am and 12:30-3:00 pm., Tuesday-Fri­day and 12:30-4:00 PM of Saturday and Sunday. 
I 

negotiation of nuclear cooperation deals with about 30 countries, including the nine-nation European Atomin Energy Agency, in order to impose tighter controls on U.S. supplied nuclear raw materials. . 
Two weeks ago, French Foreign Minister Louis de Guiringaud ve­hemently attacked the U.S. law and efforts to enforce it. 
Other areas where European offic­ials and diplomats also feel Cart· er's policies lack focus: -Africa. Particularly varying U.S. policy 


Composer to present third organ concert 
Robert Anderson, internationally known recitalist and composer, will present the third in a series of organ concerts dedicating the new great organ in Sacred Heart Church. The vesper services and recital at 7:15 p.m. Sunday are open to the public. 
A professor-and head of the organ department at Southern Methodist University, Anderson studied for two years with Professor Helmut W alcha in Frankfurt, Germany, and has performed at festivals in Nuremberg and Bruges. His students have been the recipient~ Jf several awards, including Full­bright grants and the Grand Prizt' of Chartes. 
Anderson, a native of Chicago, has studied at the American Con­servatory, Illinois Wesleyan, Union Theological Seminary and Univer­sity of Chicago. 
Srna-Lty ~at Somn Heart OmrchE! 
5:15p.m. Saturday Vigil Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sunday Rev. Gerald Devore 
10:45 a.m. Rev. John Gallen, S.J. 
12:15 P·"1· Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
I i 

7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Andrew D. Ciferni, followed by recital 0. Praem. 
Student Government  
Task Force  
,The McKenna -Roohan Administt:ation is forming a task force to rud cabinet members and provide manpower for Student Government projects. Anvone interested in becomin!! a member should call the Student Government offices or contact Mark Hutton -at 2195.  

Wa1sh-P~rn 
Happy Hour 
nickies 2-6 
SOC AD mixed drinks SOC McSorley's 

Andecker 
concerning Cubans in Angola, where they are strongly criticized. -Middle East. One French diplo­mat who preferred not to be named said Carter's search for firm U.S. positions has made him into what "a football being kicked back and forth between Israel and Egypt." 
Human Rights. Carter's initial insistance on observance of human rights in the Soviet Union seemed too ideal to begin with, then appeared to have been diluted when Moscow resisted. 
· He is a fellow of the American Guild of Organists and has been active in programs on the national level. A recent recital included the performance of the Saint-Saens Organ Symphony with the Dallas Symphony \Orchestra .. 
The new Sacred Heart organ, constructed by the Holtkamp Com­pany of Cleveland, is a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. O'Malley of Woodside, California and was lor­mally dedicated April2. AdditiPnal dedicatory programs are scheduled on Sundays through May 7. 
A feature of the Anderson recital will be the premiere performance of a new psalm setting, "Psalm 23," by composer Ethan Haimo of Notre Dame. The composition was commissioned by the Notre Dame Music Department and was written for choir and organ. 

------~ --­
by Dan Letcher Munger explained the judging at The controversial ''Girls of Notre the convention. "The people Dame" calender proved to be one 
The Notre Dame Technical Re· judging the magazines were," he of the Tech Review's biggest view came away with five awards at said, "faculty and professional money raisers, Munger noted. "It the annual convention of the En­journalists with some technical was especially rewarding for the gineering Magazines Associated background." magazine to earn these honors (ECMA), held this past weekend at He also stated that there were after the commotion surrounding the Case Western Reverve Univer­different judges for each category, the calendar at the beginning of the sity. According to Hal Munger preventing any prejudice in the year," he said. editor, that number represented evaluations. This meant that one · "With the exception of one more honors received than any of magazine could not monopolize the award in 1972, these are our first the other ECMA member schools convention just because a single awards since the early 60's. I'm ''The icing on the cake is that next judge "simply loved a magazine," very pleased with the way things years convention will be held at Munger added. turned out. We improved the Notre Dame," Munger noted. This year's NO Tech Review quality of the magazine," Munger 
Out of nine categories, the Tech operated under pressure of "a commented. Review received first place in significant cutback by the Univer­The Tech Review is made up of three: Best layout. all 1977 issues, sity" if it did not stay within its 15 regular staff members and Best Single Issue (Winter 1977), budget this year according to receives contributions from the and Best Non-Technical Article Munger. He was especially entire Engineering College. ("So How's the Weather") by pleased that this year's magazine Munger thinks that next year's Doug Bonanomi, Winter 1977. did stay under its budget and still outlook is very good because there Second Place was given to Notre came away with so many awards. will be a large number of returning Dame for the Best Cover (Spring Munger credited some money staff members. "They will, how­1977) and an Honorable Mention raising projects sponsored by the ever, have the added pressure of was awarded in the Best Overall Tech Review for keeping the maga­the convention at Notre Dame," Magazine category. zine within its budget. Munger concluded. 
By IRS 

Last minute crush expected 
WASHINGTON lAP]· Americans Taxpayers who can't make the The IRS will audit about one out of have an extra two days to struggle deadline can send a form 4868 to every 40 tax returns, but a tax­with their taxes this year, but the the IRS and get a 60-day extension payer's chances of being audited Internal Revenue Service is still for any reason. The forms are increase if he has a high salary or expecting a big crush of last-mi­available at IRS offices. takes unusual deductions. nute returns. In 1976, the IRS re-examined 1.9
However, If they think they owe
Because April 15 falls on a million individual tax returns. or
money. they must also send along a
Saturday, taxpayers have until next 2.25 percent, and made taxpayers
check with their estimated tax. The
Monday to get their returns in the give up about $1.6 billion in
check must be for at least 90
mail. alleged underpayments. 
percent of the amount the taxpayerBy last week. 30 million Ameri­
ends up owing. 

cans still had not filed returns, an 
The IRS will charge a 0.5 percent
increase from 27 million at the penalty per month on any amount Subliminal voice same time last year. 
above that, in addition to 6 percent 
IRS officials had no explanation stops klepto 's
in interest. 

for the slower rate of returns. They The agency has this other last IAPJ Somewhere in a largehad speculated earlier that bad minute advice for tax-payers: Eastern City, a scientist claims. winter weather had kept many 
shoppers are getting a message
-Take time to check the arithme­
people from going to IRS offices for with their muzak these days -buttic.
advice. 
they don't know it.

-Be sure both signatures are on a Tax officials suggested that tax­joint return. He says it is a subliminal voice payers try to finish their returns -Put your Social Security number aimed at reducing shoplifting by over the weekend rather than wait telling them: "I will not steal."
on the check in case it is separated
until the last minute Monday night. 
from the tax return. The theft deterrent is being field "If you come home from work, -Use the self-addressed envelope tested in a store "in a large Eastern 
rush through dinner and try to fill that comes with the booklet to mail Seaboard city." Dr. Hal Becker of out your return in a hurry, you are your return. 
Metarie La., told a conference in more likely to make mistakes," The IRS said it may take taxpayers Atlanta on Wednesday. He dec­said Tony Bombardiere, IRS public 
filing this weekend about six weeks lined to identify the city.affairs officer. "If you riiake a to get a refund, a week longer than "What the new application does mistake, it delays any refunds." people who filed earlier. 
in behavior therapy is provide stimuli on a background music system to set an example in honesty reinforcement and theft deterrent,'' Becker said in an interview. 
"Our intention, based on the tests, is to make it available to retail stores --department stores, supermarkets," he said. 
Becker said the system has the subliminal message embedded in the background music so the conscious mind can't quite hear it. 
"The message is designed to work almost like a post-hypnotic sugggestion to be honest and avoid stealing," Becker said. "There are words in the message like 'I am honest' and 'I will not steal.'" 
Becker, who has taught part­time at Tulane University's depar­
Friday, April14, 1978
the observer 
Tech Review wins five awards 


tJan LOst::al 
Ugly man returns 
Who is the ugliest man on the Notre Dame campus? The An Tostal Committee is determined to find out with this years's contest for Ugliest Man on Campus (UMOC). 
Anyone--no matter how ugly can run for UMOC, and anyone can cast his or her candidate at the dining halls during the week of An Tostal. Votes are a penny apiece, and there is no limit to the number of votes one person can cast for a candidate. 
All money collected will be donated to Sr. Marita's Primary Day School through the efforts of Alpha Phi Omega, a campus service fraternity. 
For more information on UMOC, call Mark Hutton at 2195. 
Ben Hur at the races 
Here's your chance to play Charlton Heston for a day. How? In the An Tostal Ben Hur Chariot Race, of course, on Saturday of An Tostal Weekend. 
A new and improved course, a procession led by blaring trumpets through the North Quad, and a new women's division highlight thie year's chariot races, which will kick off the mud pit activities. For more information, call John Callaway at 8791 or Chris Digan at 8850. 
Girls take to the courts 
Attention women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's! Were you shut out of Bookstore Basketball? Well, An Tostal is having an event just for you--Women's Bookstore Basketball. 
Registration for the women's bookstore tournament ends today. To sign up or find out more about it, call Betsy at 4-1-4214 from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. or Amy at 4-1-5712 from 11 to ll:p.m. 
Once upon a time... 
Do you miss the way your mummy used to put you to bed at night? For a mere $.25, a member of the opposite sex from the An Tostal Committee will not only tuck you into bed, hut bring you a drink of water, read you a bedtime story, or sing you a lullaby. 
An Tostal will offer this Tuck-In Service during the week of An Tostal from Sunday, April 23 through Wednesday, April 26 from 11 p.m. to midnight each night. .Sign-ups for the service will take place in the dining halls next week. 
For more information, call Mary Thornburgh or Rosie Tringali at 8130. 
Go back to childhood 
An Tostal announces an opportunity for the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to revert back to their childhood (if they ever grew out of them) with the Wheelbarrow Races. 
Yes. wheelbarrow races just like you had in kindergarten will be 
conducted on Saturday of An Tostal Weekend. To sign up, find a 
partner and call Megan McCready at 4-4346. 
Blow your own flower 
How to get a beautiful white complexion, fast--join in the Flour-Blowing Contest on Saturday of An Tostal Weend. 
The participants will try to be the first person to blow the flour out of a pie tin and uncover a penny without using their hands. Pre-registration for this event is required. To sign up, call Joanne at 8901 or Mary Pat at 8880. 
Radio City gets reprieve 
NEW YORK [AP]-Radio City heard two conflicting radio reports Music Hall presented the high­within 20 minutes of each other," kicking Rockettes as usual yester­said Skelton's wife. Marlene. "But day after a last-minute reprieve, we weren't about to turn around and many of those who waited in and go back.'' line for the show said they came Jack Gordon, 65, a retired dress 
tment of bio-medical engineering, just to make sure the 6,200 seat pattern-maker from Queens, said was in Atlanta to deliver a paper to theater was alive and well. he had been visiting Radio City a meeting of the Institute of "about once a week since it opened
Representatives of the state and
Electrical and Electronical Engi­35 years ago." He came again
Rockefeller Center announced an 
neers. yesterday ''just to see if the show
agreement after what was to be the
Adelaide Hahn, Tulane informa­would really go on."
final show Wednesday, under

tion officer, described Becker as "a It did, and Gloria Rubio and
which the state will subsidize the 
super guy with about 50 degrees," Dingla Trevino, two Spanish­
hall for a year to the tune of $2.5
who has "done a lot of work in speaking women from Guayaquil,
million while ways are sought to
subliminal learning." Ecuador, said as they watched that
keep it permanently open. 
it didn't matter that they couldn'tBecker said a New Orleans The Rockettes had shed tears understand the songs and moviesupermarket chain has estimated and their sequined slippers follow­dialogue.

that one of 14 people "is seriously ing the final performance when the "This is something special for all and significantly shoplifting." news came. "We're in business!" 
the world," Mrs. Trevino said.

In a store of about 2,000 emplo­announced ballet captain Rosemary "It is a wonderful, wonderful thing yees, the annual rate of shoplifting Novellio. "Radio City Music Hall that people from all over can visit was greater than 1.6 million," he has been saved!" 
this special landmark in the Unitedsaid. Jim Skelton and his family left States."

Becker said that if the subliminal Hereford, Pa., at 5:30 a.m. for the Rockette DeeDee Knapp, a long­messages came into widespread trip to the theater in midtown legged 29-year-old native of Utica,use, employees and customers Manhattan's Rockefeller Center. 
N.Y., recalled the applause andwould be informed that a system is "Is it open, or is it closed?" they cheers of the last-night audience. 

being used to deter shoplifting and asked while waiting in the spring "All those faces ...and they werelower prices to customers through sun. yelling 'Bravo' and 'We Jove store savings." "Shortly before getting here, we 
you,"' she said. 

Friday, April14, 1978 
the observer 
School recieves funds 
International 

CLEVELAND Ohio (AP]-As were still expecting to have Friday Cleveland's schools prepared to off, in response to a Oeveland 
Festival t

close for one day so their unpaid Teachers Union request, while teachers could learn how to apply teachers anoother employees meet for food stamps, Ohio legislators to learn how to apply for food feature! agreed yesterday to advance the stamps and unemployment bene­debt-ridden school district $30 fits, discuss a strike vote that winds 
world cu1tu1re

million. up Monday and a letter-writing 
The emergncy funds would keep campaign to seek state help. the d~strict going until the end of The school system has run out of The International Festiv~. a nightthe term-but would be charged money, and the teachers have not of cultural entertainment from against next year's aid, thus re­been paid since mid-March. around the world, will take placestricting the amount of funds A spokesman for Gov. James A. Saturday at 7:30p.m. in Washing­
available next year unless the city's Rhodes stressed that the advance is ton Hall. Admission is free. voters approve a new tax. only a temporary solution. He and 
And the measure must still be legislative and education leaders approved by the Ohio Controlling said the long-term solution rests Board, a state agency with final with the same Cleveland voters power over state emergency funds. who defeated a crucial new school 
So the city's 113,000 students tax April 6. 
l 

Angola Marxist revolution falters 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP]-Plagued His refusal to negotiate with his Arabia, Morocco, Zaire, France lifestyle, bartering what few manu­million a year in taxes and roy­
by an escalating civil war, its leader enemies an his government's and possibly other anti-Communist factured products are available in alties. reported in poor health, and its heavy dependence on Cuban troops Middle Eastern and African na­town for food in the countryside. Gulfs operations are protected economy a shambles, Angola's and thousands of Soviet, Cuban tions. However, South African "People are exchanging shirts, by Cuban forces in the Cabinda 
and East European advisers is
Marxist revolution is faltering, support for UNITA, one of the for example, for food," he said. enclave, where a third guerrilla according to diplomats, intelli­beginning to draw criticism in some antigovernment guerrilla organiza­Western diplomatic and intelli­movement, the Front for the Liber­gence sources and travelers r~:turn­black African capitals. tions, recently has diminished, the gence sources and other travelers ation of the Enclave of Angola, is Proposals are again circulating in source said. to Angola interviewed in several
ing from the new West African fighting the government. nation. 
African diplomatic circles for a Luanda, the capital and once the African capitals confirm this pic­Another U.S. oil company, Tex­President Agostinho Neto, a government of "national unity" jewel of Portugal's African empire, ture and report the two-year-old aco, recently was reported to have that would bring the three warring is "like a ghost town," said one civil war is spreading. invested in Angola although it has
Marxist-Leninist, is described by factions together in the former recent visitor. "The shops are One visitor said diplomats in not begun production. 
diplomats, who asked to remain 
Portugese colony. virtually empty. There is little Luanda told him Neto, who is 55, "The oil scene is good-it's theanonymous because of the delicacy A Western intelligence source food. Nothing is availablle any­was rumored to have had a heart only thing that i~ good," said oneof thier positions, as "desperate" 
said there are indications, but no where." attack or to be suffering from source.
but unwilling to seek a political 
solid evidence, of growing support Another source said many of cancer and recently went to Mos­The civil war is essentially
solution to what is essentially a a 
tribal war in its third year. ofr the two antigovernment Luanda's residents have been cow for treatment. Diplomats in tribal conflict ir~olving Neto's 
guerrilla movements from Saudi forced to return to a subsistance Moscow said they are fairly certain Popular Movement for the Libera­he is still there, but there has been tion of Angola, largely t-acked by no confirmation that he is ill. the 1.5 million Mbllllrlus; the 
Neto's government is backed by National Union for tft "'otal Inde­
Subcommittee okays new job bill 
extensive Soviet weaponry, an pendence of Angola, or UNITA, ld estimated 19,000 Cuban soldiers by Jonas Savimbi and~upported by WASHINGTON [AP]· A Senate _ first Senate legislative hurdle. A Augustus Hawkins, D-Calif., and and perhaps 6,000 Soviet, East the 2 million Ovimbundos, and subcommittee approved "full em­final Senate vote is not expected the late Sen. Hubert Humphrey, European and Cuban military and Hoden Roberto's national Front for 
ployment" legislation Thursday before summer. D-Minn. technical advisers. the Liberation of Angola, repre­

that calls for cutting the nation's The House of Representatives The bill was endorsed earlier ''The Neto regime is desperate,'' senting the million Bakongos. unemployment rate to 4 percent by approved a similar bill last month this year by President Cart•er. It is one Luanda visitor said. "they Angola has a total population of 6 1983. 257 to 142. backed strongly by civil rights cannot survive without the Cu­million. 
The 6-0 vote by the employment The measure requires the presi­groups, organized labor, women's bans." subcommittee of the Human re­dent to submit an annual report to groups and several religious orga­A Cuban pullout, he said, could Mixology holds sources Committee cleared the Congress setting short and long­nization's. lead to the collapse of neto's Humphrey Hawkings bill past its term goals for employment, un­The measure must be approved nominal control of the country last class 
employment and inflation. But it is by both the Senate Human Re­within a few months, possibly less. 
The Free Umverstty course,
stripped of earlier provisions man­sources Committee and .Eianking, Angola's economy is kept afloat
Authorities se~ek ''The Art of Mixology and Bartend­
dating jobs programs to help cut Housing and Urban Affai1cs Com­by revenue from the American Gulf 
ing," will hold its final class and
unemployment to 4 percent in five mittee before the full Senate can Oil Co., which produced and
loose kangaroos lab next Tuesday from 6:30 to 7:30 
years. Unemployment is now vote. average of 135,000 barrels of oil a 
p.m. in the Bulla Shed. This
running about 6.2 percent. The Human Resources Com­day last year. It provides the
WAUKESHA* WIS. [AP.]­session will be restricted to en­
Before approving the bill, the mittee is expected to consider the government with an estimated $500 
After two reported sightings of rolled students only. 
subcommittee adopted a proposal bill in two weeks. The bankingunidentified hopping creatures, by Sen. Gaylord Nelson, D-Wis., committee has scheduled hearingsWisconsin Humane Society of­directing the president's Council of on the measure in early May, andficials confess they're still on a Economic Advisers to study the committed aides say it probably"wild kangaroo chase." 

OPEN: MON··THURS 9AM-11PM
impact that federal regulations will be late May or early JuneThere aren't any missing kanga­ahve on small business. before the panel votes on the 
FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM
roo reports on file. nor any records The measure is named for Rep. measure.

of kangaroo ownership in the area, 
SUN 12NOON-12PM
except for the ones at the nearby Milwaukee County Zoo. But that doesn't help Jill Haese­
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS 
lich. who would like more proof 
Firestone sells stock 
BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END Wednesday was really what she 
that what she saw in her backyard MIAMI [AP -A month after a are safe and will give excellentsaw. "It was pretty quick. It was 
CK NORTH OF STATE UNE -ON U.S. 31
federal agency started investigat­service. There's no reason whatso­hopping. We knew it had to be a ing Firestone 500 steel-belted ra­ever that these tires cannot be sold. 
kangaroo,'' she said. 
dial tires for possible safety de­The announcement of an investiga­Waukesha police said last week fects, the company has put its stock tion does not mean they cannot bethat a woman reported seeing a car on sale and advertised the low sold."
strike one of two kangaroos cros­prices in South Florida and Ala­

sing an intersection about 10 miles However, Harmon Howe, a from the Haeselich home. The spokesman for the only folllr Fire­
bama.
• 
In newspaper advertisements,
woman said the animal that was hit stone dealers in West Palm Beach,
the Firestone Tire and Rubber Co.
was able to hop away. said his stores will return their 
has offered to sell four Firestone
"We're on a wild kangaroo chase stock of 500s to the manufacturer. 
500 radials for $139 -half their
at the moment," said Albert P. "They're not for sale," he said. 
normal price -in the Miami area,'Keller, manager of the Humane 
Strandberg said the ones on sale

Key West, Birmingham, Ala., andSociety. 
are nearly all the 500s left in the

Decatur, Ala. Normal price is $68 
nation because production ended

to S74 apiece.
Walshe discusses just over a year ago. Firestone now
"Have you ever seen radials 
manufactures a radial tire called

priced so low?" one ad read.
S. African crisis the 721, and Strandberg said many
Hurry ... stocks limited." Adds in 
of the sale tires were actuallly made 

[continued from page 1] Alabama also offered "blems" at 
with the 721 construction before

capable of tolerating the emer­four for $119. "Blems" usually 
the new design was officially

gence of South African blacks?" have surface imperfections such as 
introduced in January 1977. He 
'

"1n the past, the illusion has marks on the whitewalls. 
l
had no precise figres on the 
I

been that if you don't confront Firestone spokesman Jim 
number of 500s on sale.

South Africa, it will fade into the Strandberg said in Akron Thursday background," Walshe said. How­that the federal safety investigation The investigation of the Fire­ever he asserted that South Africa was never considered in the sales 
stone 500 steel-belted radial tires ''will be a world trouble spot for the promotion. was announced early in March by 
Contact the L. H. Inn -255-4786 or visit us
remainder of the century." "Spring has more to do with it the National Highway Traffic "South Africa is in a state of than anything else," he said. Safety Administration, which said 
2754 lincolnway tast Mishawaka ferment. It will take confrontation "Certainly we would not sell an it has received more than 500 
This add entitles bearer to 1 FREE carafe of wine with meal.
before change comes about," he unsafe tire," Strandbery said. complaints from consumers of 
~ 

concluded. "Properly maintained, these tires blowouts and tread separations. . 

A Fair Housing Contract 
Any student who intends to live on cam­pus next year must sign a housing contract andsubmitlt by tomorrow, April 15. ~ut what does your signature on the housmg contract really mean? The contract itseff states: "This contract constitutes accep­tance by the resi~~nt of all the _rule~ and regulations pertammg to the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame residence halls." Because of loopholes seemingly written into the regulations, no one can be sure what rights they are conceding to the University or what responsibilities they are assuming.
Recently the University attempted to clarify its regulations by elaborating on the rule prohibiting the construction of lofts in dormitories. What really needs clarification is that part of the housing regulations which reads, "The University reserves the right to make whatever reassignment or adjustment in accomoda­tions deemed necessary; to inspect rooms for cleanliness or to make repairs; to enter rooms without a search warrant for the purpose of maintaining security, disci­pline, and the orderly operation of an educational institution. ' 
This single statement is a catch-all regulation which gives the University too many loopholes. 
Phrases in the contract should be explained. Who shall deem it necessary to "reassign or adjust" a student's roo!'" situation. Are they required to explam why? The University could use this loophole to remove persons from the halls without giving sufficient reason. 
The statement which gives the Univer­sity the right to enter a room without a search warrant is ambiguous. It can and has been interpreted as the right to enter a room if a member of the opposite sex is thought to be present before or after parietals. This Is a disciplinary matter; but how far 'can the term "discipline" be mtched? What Is the "orderty operationdan educational Institution?" Carrying 
tt-e possibilities to an extreme, oould the 
Uliw'sity enter a room under the pretext 
that the noise was disrupting the "orderly operation?'' When was the last time a room was inspected for cleanliness? What effect would an unclean room have on the student who lives there, presuming he is to suffer for it? Why does the Universityneed to reserve the right to enter rooms to make repairs? It seems likely that students would welcome the needed repairs. More often the complaint is that necessary repairs are not made soon enough or at all. The contract does not say that the University agrees to maintain the rooms in any particular condition. The housing contract is not only unclear, it also fails to state the University's responsibilities. Many students build lofts to save room. If lofts are banned, will the University stop overcrowding rooms. The proposed banning construction of lofts also states, "The use of 'zip cord' or light wire extension cords for use with appliances is prohibited." How can three students plug m clocks, desk lamps, hair dryers and possibly a stereo and refrigerator into six outlets? Lastly, the contract states that "any student who moves off campus without the explicit permission of the Director of Student Residence, not only forfeits his $50 security deposit but is also liable for room and board for the full academic year." Why does a student need permission to move off-campus after their housin9 contract is terminated? Would not informmg the Director of the move suffiee? Before the University further limits students' rights, it should examine its own responsibilities. A well known campusfigure once said that students are "guests of the University." What host would leave the terms of a guest's stay so unclear? Would any host pass all responsibilities on to its guest without claiming any himself? What does your signature on the housing contract mean? The Univer<-ity should tell you. They are the only ones who know. 


which occurred during the Vietnam tence of the revolution range fromA War. Anyone who has the opportu­preposterous to the laughable at 
nity to pick up the newspaper four best. The pervasiveness of mari­or five times in the past years juana usc and sexual freedom, are knows such a purported revolution not only moot points, they wouldn't 
revolution.? 
simply docs not exist. Indeed, even prove the existence of a DEAR EDITOR, there has been much scattered revolution if tfue. Theses are 
The recent letter by John A. violence. but much of this has been merely unsanctioned changes in Kenward (''A Revolution Lives,'' incoherent and not supportive of an lifestyles. Are our fathers really April 6, 1978) though amusing. is overall uprising. Sorry Mr. Ken­the last generation to take the pope 
nevertheless one of the more ward. there is no mass insurrec­seriously? And is the concert attendance of CSN, Grateful Dead
absurd argumentsever written. In tion; you may not go out and bomb that letter, Mr. Kenward asserts buildings. and Rolling Stones the standard that there is an ongoing "revolu­Aside from the obvious, the ar­"revolution activity index?" 
John Kenward's observation ontion" similar to the rebellions guments used to prove the exis­changes in the American lifestyle and attitudes. though, arc indici­tive of something better than a revolution. They arc indicative of a
~,K The Observer 
growing concern among those of my generation. We don't want an independent newspaper serving Box Q another useless Vietnam. We
the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame 
wonder just how equitable thecommunity Ind. 46556 
present, global stat'us quo is. The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Locally there is concern over the University's actions regarding the
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily groundskeeper's matter. The
reflect the policies of the admmistration of either institution changes that we effect, however,The news i<; reported as accurately and as obwctively as will be done constructively; theypo.5~ible Editorials represent the opinion of a maJOrity of the will be done without disrupting -the 
fditorial Board. Commentanes, opinions and letters are the 
country or the lives of others. 

views of their authors Column sp<:tCe is available to all Incidentally. Mr. Kenward, Imembers of the community, and the free expression of varying would think that cheap partisanopmions on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
shots are in rather bad taste today. And before one makes hasty com­ments about Father HesburghEDITORIAL BOARD 
"not so much a fascist as he is a person divorced from student re­rony Pace Editor-in-Chief 
ality") maybe one should look at Stew Odland Managing Editor 
~hat Father Hesburgh has accom­John Calcutt Executive Editor 
plished .. not what he hasn't. Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 
Bryan S. O'Neill 
Ro~emary Mill~ Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor\ Editor lean Powley St: Mary's Editor 
Where is

Ann Gales New~ Editor Mike Lewis News Editor 
Ollie?

Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Dear Editor: A great way to start the day at ND was the send off "OLLIE" gave Friday, Aprill4, 1.978 
us all at the Juniper entrance with his friendly wave and "Good Morning." 
Alas -the morning gray is no longer lightened by his cheery greeting. 
Where are you Ollie? How could you desert us?'???? "The Juniper Gate Gang" 
We need the competition 
Editor's Note: The following letter was sent to the Observer by Mr. Ward. He also sent copies to other newspapers and several basketball coaches from acclaimed schools. 
Dear Coach Phelps: 
Earlier this year, on national TV. 
you pressured Billy Packer im· 
mediately following Notre Dame's 
victory over an ACC team with the 
comment to the effect, "O.K.. 
Billy. now tell me about the ACC." 
First. congratulations on beating two ACC teams, the third and tied-for-last teams of the season concluded in 1978. 
Second, please accept my con­dolences (and gloatings) on your '77 and '78 tournament attempts: as a loser to the ACC in both attempts you tied Arkansas, Kansas State, Purdue. Kentucky and Nevada-Las Vagas in '77 and Rhode Island, Pennsylvania and Villanova in '78. Further past statistics would not be so kind to Notre Dame basketball. 

Everybody likes an intelligent, witty, winning coach who speaks with honesty and candor. Every ACC coach who has coached a winner over Notre Dame's basket­ball program has said in effect "We are happy we beat a fine team," -because Notre Dame is a fine team (program) now. If it felt good for you to coach a winner over an ACC also-ran (or any ACC team) why didn't you just say, "It feels· good to beat an ACC team." Not 
everybody. Mr. Phelps. likes an 
intelligent. witty. winning coach 
who speaks with barbs, jabs and 
innuendos even if he is honest. 
Yours is a fine program based, it 

appears. on good coaching. recruit­
ing, facilities, scheduling and ed­
ucation. We ACC fans enjoy it. So. 
please keep up the good work, the 
ACC needs the competition. 
Thomas E. Ward 
A 
compliment· 

Dear Editor: 
I wish to congratulate Mr. Michael Molinelli for his creative strip "Molarity." But that "young Swedish-born immigrant" by the name of Knute Rockne was born in Norway. I know because I dedi· cated a historical marker in his home town several years ago on my ' way to Moscow. 
Fr. Almond Joy, C.S.C. 

P.S. Coach Rockne started out at 

letters to a lonely God 
Whereuer the Catholic Sun Does Shine 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
I wonder if my father would have was nineteen. His friends brought him as the ingredient that gives warmth to the like others to drink; but drinkers didn't feel understood if I told him that I drink. I home and he was smuggled into the house fellowship in a bowl of punch. Yet the uncomfortable around him. Decades wonder if, hearing me praise the benefits as covertly as though he had been an IRA punch is full of treachery. Wine taken once passed in my life, and I was middle-aged ofthe double Manhattan, he wouldn't say: agent hiding from the Black and Tans. The is friendly. Wine taken twice is a romp. before I understood the reasons he was a "Listen to my son, the fool." My father neighbors mustn't see him, and the The temptation is to think that wine taken life-long abstainer. My father was afraid to was a Methodist who never drank in his children mustn't see him, my parents to the tenth time leads to heaven, drink. He wlj.s afraid he would become life. He died when I was a freshman 1n thought. But I did see him sprawled confirming and increasing the joy that has liquor's fool. He never told me this; he college. He never talked to me about stupidly in a chair with my parents gone before. Instead, wine becomes didn't have to, since he formed my 
his own good wayward, like a court jester gone wild. The
alcohol or sex; leaving me sorrowing over him as though the three of conscience. On evenings I have staggered, 
example as a decent man, he never needed them were the figures of a Temperence warmth in the stomach turns into the viper the whisper that says "Watch your step" to tell me his Christian opinions on life. He pieta. My father thought my brother's in the bosom. Nobody, as Saki says, feels has Yankee accents. On nights I have lost grieved over my becoming a Catholic as drunkenness was sad and shameful, the comfortable having one's bosom used as a the language of logic, sweet reason tells though he had heard news of a death in the sanctuary by vipers. me in sea-flecked idioms: "You're making
greatest grief that could come to the 
family. Part of his distress came from his family. For years after that, my father As a child, I thought the prohibition law, a fool of yourself." 
awareness that Catholics drink. "Catholios would pace up and down at night, going even after its repeal, was a footnote to the Wherever the Catholic sun does shine, drink, and priests drink," he reasoned. there is laughter and good red wine.
sleepless until dawn, fearing that m:, Ten Commandments and the Sermon on "Liquor makes them religious hypocrites." the Mount. Drunkards could not inherit I pray that it may be always so,
brother was getting drunk again. Event­
He was really quite sincere once, when he the kingdom of God; I knew St. Paul had benedicamus Domino. 
ually, he had me to worry about. I became 
forbade me to attend Catholic services: he written those words. Okay, fine; we didn't Hilaire Belloc could believe that, but my
an even greater worry to him, as he told 
was afraid, he said, that at Mass I would have drunkards in the family; but was that father could only believe half of it. The
me, when I became a protege of Rome. 
meet the wrong kind of people. why my parents worried about my broth­Latin blessing would have offended him,
Rum and Romanism, as every Yankee er's drinking? Wasn't Grandpa a little and he would suspect the laughter asasMy father was not an austere man. He knew, fit together as elementally wicked in his visit to Hardigan's pub? barroom bawdry.
cared a great deal about his friends who earthquake and fire. 
Wasn't Hardigan himself, Catholic and All my life, my father was a stranger todrank, and he had many; but he would My father never saw me drink. I never Irisp, terribly bad, and a living argument wine. He feared a religion that could bless have felt they contradicted themselves if began drinking until I was thirty; and for a against the truth of the Catholic Church? wine; and because ofthe daily wine I bless, they pretended to be religious. His father long time, I couldn't drink without guilt. my father becomes a stranger to me. Yet,
drank, and his brothers drank. He would As a very young man, I wanted very much 
"Oh, Dad," I would think as the ice clinked like the son who waited outside a barroom
often drive my grandfather to a saloon, and to escape my father's opinions and my
against the glass; "I've become something to drive my Grandpa home, my father
wait outside for him in a car whlle the old father's house. Yet, wherever since then I 
you would distrust most: a shepherd who waits, even after thirty years -through his 
gentleman tossed down the frothy glass have gone in life, my father has always
lushes." When you drink with the sense life style and example -to lead me home to
that retired sailors feel regularly entitled been with me representing the vision of
that your father's ghost is judging you, you growth. I praise wine and the merits of the
to. My father didn't mind (to my decency and honor, gentleness and love,
watch yourself very carefully, noting the double Manhattan, but I praise my father
knowledge) that his father drank; he loved that I must measure myself against to be at
slurred word and spilled drop. You scan more. Under the sky with the Catholic sun, 
all of the old man's habits. Yet none of us peace with myself. I don't live up to my
your actions closely, like a critic counting or under the roof of John Wesley's world, I
ever saw Grandpa with a glass in his hand, poem. a father's example; but he is my friend, and
the p'entameters of a There is bless my father who wouldn't let the 
at our house or at Grandpa's. Drinking it has been a long time since I felt
poetry of drinking: Chesterton and Belloc Papists claim my whole heart and con­
was something that grownups couldn't do uncomfortable with his memory.
praise the cheerfulness of wine. At the end science.
in front of us kids. 

of every road in Dickens waits the Dad was not a Yankee bluenose. In his I pray that it may be always so, My brother came home drunk once. He alehouse, where the kettle sings on the fire whole life, he never drank and he didn't benedicamus Domino. 
*************************************************************************************** 
To Coonameeset With ~~cleats'' 
by tony pace 
Cleats. a novel about the fictitious strand, which seems to have been pat­War Eagle center, captain, and linebacker Eagle players is Yukki-Yamaha, "six feet, Coonameeset War Eagles and their fight terned after the sports literature of Dan is a humorous combination of National five inches and 350 pounds of ex-Sumo for respectability in the Louisiana Purchase Jenkins. The athletes (if a group of misfits Football League greats Ray Nietsche and wrestler.'' Duke designs a tackle eligibility Football League, has recently been re­like the War Eagles can be called athletes) Chuck Bednarik. Coach and quarterback play, which he calls "the Oriental Ex­leased by the Juniper Press. The novel is are depicted as , beer-guzzling, women­Duke Curry is an old ballplayer who had a press," to surprise War Eagle opponents. a curious mixture of two different types of chasing hustlers. Sure they play to win, _ shot at the NFL before drifting to The villains of the story are the team's athletic novels. In some ways Cleats is but Coonameeset, North Dakota is hardly a• Coonameeset. Duke, nicknamed because general manger, Fats Minkowitz, and similar to a Frank Merriwell story. The football hot bed. Just as long as the War of his alma mater, has a propensity for owner Frank Franklin. Fats got the War Eagles, who are the underdogs in the Eagles have a good time at Ruby's, "their giving philosophical pre-game, half-time general manager position because he had LPFL, miraculously ch.nb from the league home away from home," they seem and post-game speeches. As the War an in with Franklin. He doesn't give a cellar to challenge for its title. If this were contented. Eagles begin to win, Duke's speeches damn about the War Eagles, he just wants the lone strand of plot, the story would be Most of the characters in Cleats are stock become more important to the team. to make a buck, while Franklin just wants a trite. But there is more. There is a second athletic characters. Baldy Wallace, the One of the more interesting of the War winner. 
The team begins to play well because they are informed that Franklin may take the players with him when he gets a franchise in New York. No, not an NFL franchise, a CFL (thats Continental Foot­ball League) franchise 


The novel traces the War Eagles journey from a lousy team with a 23 game losing streak, to a gutty squad which battles for the league championship and the emblem of LPFL .champions, the Jerome Smolen cup. 
Different techniques are used to de­scribe the War Eagles games. These techniques, which vary from straight play by play to flashbacks and game summaries given by announcers, keep the story fresh, without interrupting its natural flow. 
Even the most minor characters are take-offs on real life figures or stock characters. Pass receiver Moa Tse-Young is a Korean rookie sensation for the South Dakota Vampires. Sara "the Snoop" Wiffleback is the only telephone operator in Coonameeset and she eavesdrops on phone conversations. 
Cleats was written by George Berry, John Gelson and Ken MacAfee. (Yes, the All-American and soon to be first round NFL draft choice.) Their manuscript was selected and published by Professor Eliza­beth Christman's book publishing class as their semester_prqject. 
The book will certainly sell. MacAfee's name has already helped sell over 100 copies at an autograph setsion. But the book stands on its own merit. The story line is not as intricate as it might have been -­and some of the characters need to be developed more fully, but the book is entertaining. 
Although Cleats certainly will not win major literary accolades, it is a fine student publication. 



Friday, April14, 1978 
Rubinelli dies of heart failure 
Farmers angry over killed bill 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. (AP) ­Nature, instead of the courts, settled the legal battle over wheth­er Andra Rubinelli should be kept alive artificially. 
After 17 days on a respirator that her parents sought court permiss­ion to disconnect, the 15 year old daughter of Peter and Joan Rubine­IIi died of heart failure at 9: 13 p.m. CST Wednesday 
"It's over. The ordeal for the hospital and family is over," Donald Muhlenthaler, administra­tor of Walters Hospital here, said in announcing the girl's death 
Thursday.  "Her blood  pressure  
couldn't  be  maintained  and  her  
heart stopped."  

"The courts have gotten their reprieve," he added. "They didn't have to make their decision. Nature became the judge." 
The funeral which her parents planned more than a week ago is schecduled to be held at 1 p.m. CST tomorrow at Carlisle Funeral Home here. Burial will be in Swan Lake Memorial Gardens. 
In an interview Thursday, Mrs. Rubinelli said the family was prepared for the death because "The doctor told us the day of the 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Angry far· mers came to town on tractors in winter's slush. They left by bus and car yesterday in spring's
Mayor favors viewer choice 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. [AP]· Indi­viduals should be able to decide for themselves whether they want to watch R or X rated films on cable television, Mayor Robert E. Arm­strong said yesterday. 
He would Rot commit himself for or against a pt'oposed ordinance City Attorney William Salin said he is preparing: It would ban X rated and possibly R rated movies from cable TV in Fort Wayne. 
Salin said last week he had not discussed the matter with Arm­strong who was out of town, but 
: p.m. to p.m.presumed the mayor would agree the summer. Student volunteers are being ouse vote, pledging retaliation 
sought to pass out American Can-with their own votes, and ab~ut 150
-*The Observercer 
Society life-saving literature came bac~ Thursday mornmg to 

-& pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
272-7433 across from Holiday Inn 

***************~*** 
sunshine, still angry. Against predictions of the legisla­with the proposal. 
tive leadership, the House plowedArmstrong said, "I don't think under a grain and cotton growers·we should have X and R films on 1id bill by 268-150 on Wednesday,TV. but our community is going to determine this. We've heard from the city attorney; we heard from 
Helpers needed

certain council members, and now I want to hear from the community.' • 
for Cancer Drive 
He said he didn't feel "the 
·
actl·o

Volunteers are needed for the n e presr en ... m person-
community would support such · h h' ld
If0 bb

American Cancer Society's Educa-a ymg ...sot at rs veto wou
films. h. J't' 1 " 
t d t

tiona! Fund Raising Drive. The no es roy rs poI rca career.
F 3 500 t d

The council is reviewing applica­
drive this year will take place on armers, • s rong. masse 
Wh.t H " 90

tions of seven cable TV companies d th 1 e
Sunday afternoon, April 23, from aroun e ousr: •Or
minutes Wednesday night after the 

and will award a franchise early in 
I 30 5 H 
and collect donations in the South cheer therr leaders and then go Bend area. Posters will be placed home. . in each dormitory on campus with Carter ha~ promrsed two weeks to sign-up sheets attached. ~eto ~he brll as unwarranted and 
Sign-ups will be limited to this rm_fl_a_t_ro_n_a_ry_._H_e--;;an=d=H=o=u=s=e=S=p=e=ak=-==o=u=t,=t=h=is=is:::o:::n:::l:::y:::t:::h:::e:::b-e_g_in_n_t_n_g_:_·...., 
week only. Students are needed from both Saint Mary's and Notre' Dame to work in pairs throughout the South Bend communities. 
Volunteers will meet at 1:30 p.m. Sunday afternoon, April 23. in Room I03 of Galvin Life Science Center. Students will then be driven to and picked up from the areas by volunteer drivers. Addi­tional student drivers are also needed. For additional information contact 
Chris Ranieri at 1411. 

Golic, Johnson to speak ofsports 
Linebackers Bob Golic and Pete Johnson will be guests on "Speak­ing of Sports" this Saturday, WSND AM (6400) host Ted Robin­son and John Stenson will begin the call-in show at 10 p.m. 
Theatre posters falsely dated 

The ND-SMC Theatre "Second Scene" production of "The Maids," by Jean Genet, will not be April 16-17 as listed on posters around campus. Production dates wil be given soon. Watch for new posters. 
Volunteers sought for orientation 
Anyone who is interested in working with freshmen or transfer orientation or who has any sugges­tions for it should contact Carey Ewing at 6877. 
legislation that protesting farmers had sought as an emergency meas­ure. 
The Amerrcan Agrrcunure protest group's leaders said President Carter was responsible, so they prayed and they shouted warnings through the White House fence Wednesday night after the House killed the bill.. 
Gregg Suhler of Springfield Colo., one of the group's founders, said: "This defeat of this important 
legislation was due directly to the 
of th 'd t hearing that he was quite sure she wouldn't live two weeks." 
"It willreally hit us when we see 
her," Mrs. Rubinelli adued. The 
death cane about 30 hours after a 
superior court judge had delayed 
for two weeks a hearing on the 
Rubinellis' petition to declare their 
daughter legally dead. 
The parents had asked the hospit­
al to disconnect the life-support 
machinery, but its officials refused 
because-Indiana law does not 
recognize brain death. 
Mrs. RubineiJi spoke bitterlyof the court's refusal to admit evidence from Andra's doctor that she was dead because her brain was not functioning. 
"If l had asked for an abortion, nobody would have asked how alive is alive," she said, complaining that there was excessive concern for "how dead is dead." 
"We were just trying to bury someone. Our lawyer filed papers that the hospital would not be held responsible for anything," the mother said. 
Andra, who had been suffering from a rare blood disease characte­rized by a shortage of platelets which causes bleeding in the brain, er Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. said House concern over inflation, not veto threats, killed the bill. 

But some administration and Sen­ate sources said White House lobbying did it. 
The legislation would have raised basic support prices for wheat, feedgrains and cotton, and allowed those who grow these crops to secure substantially higher federal­Iy guaranteed prices this year if they idled one acre for every two 
planted.
Opponents said enactment would have added from 58 cents to $2.14 to a roughly $54 weekly grocery bill of a three-person urban family, and would have boosted the budget for 
federal farm income programs from 
a maximum of $7.9 billion to between $11 billion and $13 billion. 
Suhler, meantime, said: "We will 

never give up ... and we will succ­eed. We will be back again and agian and again. We say to the Congress and the president.: watch was admitted to the hospital March 
26. Six hours later, she lapsed into a coma. 
Over a 10-day pedod, doctors administered three el~::ctroencepha-· lograms, which measure brain impulses, and failed to detect any activity. But under state law, a patient is considered alive if there is breathing and the heart is beating. Hospital machinery had artificially maintained those funct­ions. 
The Rubinellis went to court Tuesday to ask LaPorte Superior Court Judge Raymond Fox to direct the hospital to disconnect the respirator. After appointing two attorneys to represent the child's interests in the matter, Fox contin­ued the hearing until April 25. that was over the protests of John Anderton, LaPorte attorney repre­senting the Rubinellis and Craig Braje, the attorney for the hospital, who said the girl might die in the interim, leaving the issue unsettl­ed. 
"It's our position that we need to know the criteria to be set down for determining life and death here," he said. 

Robert Tauro spoke last night on the topic of "Nuclear Energy and Human Rights" in the Haggar Hall auditorium. [Photo by Beth Corbin] 

Friday, April14, 1978 
Says FBI ass't. director 
Warrantless investigations continue 
NEW YORK (AP) -Assistant FBI director J. Wallace LaPrade said yesterday that "warrantless invest­igations" such as those that resul­ted in the indictment of former acting FBI director L. Patrick Gray and his own proposed discipline are still being conducted by the FBI, with presidential authority. 
"At the present time, there are warrantless investigations that the attorney general, with the presi­dent's executive authority, is hav­ing the FBI conduct," he said at a news conference. He did not say whether President Carter had spec­ific knowledge of them. 
Asked what he meant by ..warr­antless," he replied: "I would describe it this way: The activities that are alleged in connection with the Weatherman investigation in the early 1970s would categorize as warrantless activities.'' 
In Washington, Justice Depart­ment spokesman Terrence Anam­son said at a hastily called news conference that the issues raised by LaPrade involved national security. 
Adamson said there were no instances of warrantless surveil­lance in domestic cases by the FBI or other Justice Department agents except for national security and that the attorney general and his predecessor Edward F. Levy had testified to Congress on several occasions about those. 
Adamson said that in fact no American citizen has been subject­ed to warrantless surveillance with the well-publicized exception of Ronald Humphrey, a USIA employ­ee accused of passing secrets to the North Vietnamese. 
LaPrade has been under recent pressure by Bell for his alleged activities in illegal acts committed in investigations of the Weather­man Underground. 
Department officials declined to spell ~ut specifically what adminis­trativl; charges have been brought against LaPrade, who was notified earlier in ''fhe day as to their content. 
Referring to the pressures from Bell for his .alleged role in illegal FBI burglaries, mailopening and wiretapping in its Weatherman Investigations, LaPrade said: "Is it proper to ask: Will another political power in Washington desire to prosecute today's actions five years from now?" 
"The issue at hand is political, as opposed to legal," LaPrade said, ''and there has been a political effort to control the FBI. 
A highly placed FBI source in New York who asked not to be identified said that Bell sought LaPrade's resignation as an alternative discip­linary proceedings" against him. 
The two men were said to have engaged in an angry exchange Wednesday by telephone, as La­Prade defied Bell's pressure for his resignation. 
LaPrade, who has headed the 
1.300 agent bureau in New York City for three years, said that all current "warrantless investigat­ions" should be ended, and that in the future, "any FBI agent hand­ling assignments involving warran­tless activities be supplied in writing the orders from President Carter to carry out such acts." 

Without elaborating, LaPrade also said there was a connection bet­ween the Weatherman Underg­round targets in the early 1970s and the Palestine Liberation Organ ization. 
Meanwhile, attorney Jack Soler­witz, reached by telephone at his Long Island office, said he repre­sented 68 agents now scattered around the country who took part in investigations of the Weatherman Underground and who now face possible disciplinary action as a result. · 
The lawyer said none of the 68 "are going to accept any censure or reprimand without a fight.'' 
the observer ·11 
SU sponsors multi-media jazz program 

"All That Jazz--A Capsule Histo 
of Jazz on Film" is the title of multi-media presentation of Davi Chertok in the Library Auditoriu at 7 p.m. tomorrow. The progra is sponsored by the Student Uni Academic Commission and is ope to the public without charge. 
Chertok has worked as chie librarian for the largest stock footage library in the world during the last 15 years. The material be has assembled for his lecture brings to life on film such perfor­mers as Billie Holiday, Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Miles Davis. John C. Coltrane, Tommy Dorsey, and Charlie Parker. 
The speaker combines his film montage with an accompanying udio track to present a documen­ary on jazz, now experiencing a 
esurgence in popularity. 
-

-
j 

Friday, April 14, 1978
12 the observer 


Friday, April 14, 1978 
the observer 

Senate continues to negotiate Canal treaties 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate De­mocratic leaders have taken charge of the delicate negotiations with a colleague whose demand for a right of U.S. intervention threatens to scuttle the Panama Canal treaties, sources said yesterday. 
''This has become an institutional battle," one well-placed source said. The source. asking not to be identified, said that Senate leaders asked Carter administration offic­ials to withdraw to a secondary role and that the officials agreed. 
There appeared no early solutions to the impasse. Sen. Frank Church, 0-Idaho, said the talks with Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-A­riz., were moving "like a glacier." 
Meanwhile, the Senate agreed to take today off. Earlier the Senate rejected the last of 24 amendments proposed by treaty opponents to the second pact. 
Kranzberg to talk on energy crisis 
"Are We Running Out of Time?," 
a talk dealing with the prospect of 
depleted natural resources and 
energy supplies will be presented 
at the CCE tonight at 8 p.m. 

The speaker, Melvin Kranzberg, 
Callaway Professor of the History 
of Technology at the Georgia 
Institute of Technology, will dis­
cuss the role of science-technology 
in creating and meeting such 
crises. 

He will deliver his remarks fol­
lowing the annual Signa Xi initia­
tion dinner to be held at the CCE 
lower level. The talk is intended 
for a general audience and is open 
to the public. 

Kranzberg is president-elect of Sigma Xi, the scientific research society with 120,000 active mem­bers active in 500 chapters and clubs throughout North America. The Notre Dame chapter, with 360 members, is observing its silver anniversary this year. 
Kranzberg is credited with estab­
lishing the history of technology as 
a new field of history. He is the 
principal founder of the Society for 
the History of Technology and 
editor of its quarterly journal, 
Technology and Culture. 

He also was instrumental in 
initiating the International Cooper­
ation in History · of Technology 
Committee. and has been its vice 
president since 1968. He has 
written or edited seven books 
including volumes on European 
history in addition to those on 
technology. 

Course to study human relations 
The Counseling Center will offer a course on systematic human rela­tions training next fall and has invited interested students who will be juniors to apply. · 
The course may be of interest to students planning careers in such fields as law, medicine, psycho­logy, social work and education: The program is d~signe~ to tr~m individuals in baste helptng sktlls through experiential learning in a small group setting. 
Such skills as attentiveness, em­pathy, respect, confrontation and self-disclosure, among others, are considered necessary to establish a helping relationship with someone. 
Trainees may arrange to receive special studies credit in psycho­logy. 
The group will meet Tuesday evenings from 6-10 throughout the fall semester. Enrollment in the program will be limited, and appli­cants will be considered partially on the basis of two helping skills inventories they will be asked to take. 
Any one of them could have crippled the treaty by forcing it to be renegotiated or submitted to another plebiscite in Panama. 
Reservations -unlike amendm­ents -would not have that effect, and several are likely to be adopted before the second pact is put to a final vote on Tuesday. 
That treaty spells out procedures. for the U.S. transfer of control of the waterway to Panama at the end of 1999. The first treaty, approved last month, deals with keeping the canal neutral. 
DeConcini was successful in at­taching a reservation to the first treaty. The reservation says the Unites States has the right to intervene militarily to keep the canal open. _ 
DeConcini wants to attach a similar reservation to the second treaty. 
DeConcini's demand has infuria­ted the Panamanians. They say it would give the United States the right to intervene in Panamanian affairs. But the Carter administrat­ion fears that a refusal to go along with DeConcini would cost the second treaty a handful of crucial votes. 
On the other hand, two treaty proponents, Sens. Dania! P. Moyn­ihan, D-NY, and Floyd Haskell, D-Colo, hinted that they might vote against the second pact unless provisations were softened. 
And Sen. James Abourezk D-S.D., told the White House that he, too, would consider voting against the treaty unless President Carter took a new stand against natural gas deregulation and at­tempted to have House-Senate energy conference leaders open their meetings. 
"I'm not bluffing at all. I think deregulation is a much more impor­tant issue than the Panama Can­al," Abourezk said when asked why he was linking the two issues. 

Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Assistant Majority Lead­er Alan Cranston, D-Calif., and Church took charge of the DeConc­ini rejected language proposed by the State Department to take the sting out of his r~servations. 
Announcing the Opening of" 
georgetown·phar11acy 

PHARMACIES TO SERVE YOU''
1234-31841 

Center 

1277-5811] 
•PRESCRIPTION PRICt INFORMATION ANYTIMF_•CWIJIPLETE DRUG INFORMATION SER~ICE.•CRUTCH-WALKER RENTAL 
ReXa/1 ULTRA CAREc.­LOTIONS •. 
Those interested in applying for NEW
For a brisk,

the course are asked to visit the Intensive-Strength 400 I.U., 
invigorating rub!

Counseling Center, 400 Adminis­
or Regular. 16 oz. 100
tration Bldg., between 8:30 and 
16 oz. 

.Capsules
E
11:30 a.m. or 1:30 and 4:30 p.m., 
no later than next Friday. 

..•,•. 
Friday, April14, 1978 

AMERICAN East 
w  L  Pet.  
5  0  1.000  
4  1  .667  
2  2  .500  
2  3  .400  
2  4  .333  
1  5  .200  
0  .000  
West  
5  2  .714  
5  2  .714  
3  1  .750  
4  2  .667  
4  5  .444  
2  3  .400  
2  7  .222  

GB 
1 2 1/2 3 3 112 4 5 
l/2 l/2 2 2 4 

SLou 
NY 
Chi 
Phil 
Mont 
Pitt 
Cine LA S Fran S Dieg Hous Atla 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East Baseball w L Pet. GB 
Standings
4 2 .667 4 3 .571 1/2 3 3 .500 1 2 2 .500 1 
2  3  .400  1 I /2  
2  4  .333  2  
West  
6  I  .857  
4  2  .667  I 1/2  
3  3  .500  2 l/2  
2  3  .400  3  
2  5  .286  4  
1  4  .200  4  


>
....
-
= 
Cl: ..... Q 
:E 



Mil Detr Clev Bost NY Toro Bait 
Cal Oakl KC Chi Minn Tex Seat 

SALE! Album Cover Mirrors $8.99 Tour T-shir1s $3.00 
Mickey Jr. 

Another Mantle in baseball 
ALEXANDRIA* VA. [AP]­Mickey Mantle Jr., parting com­pany with the New York Yankees for whom his father starred, signed Thursday to play baseball this season for the Alexandria Dukes, and independent entry in the Class A Carolina League. Mantle, 23, who failed earlier this spring in a tryout with the 
yankees farm team at Fort Lauder­dale. Fla.. said he was looking forward to suiting up with his new 
team. 
Mantle said he relayed the news to his father when the elder Mantle telephoned Thursday morning from Dallas. 
The  younger  Mantle  said  his  
father  was  pleased he  made  the  
team.  

He said he would give himself two years to get to the · major leagues. "If I can't make it by the time I'm 25, then I will have to look for something else," he said. 
Mantle admitted to being a little overweight during the Fort Lauderdale stint and said he was used sparingly. 
After the club left him behind when it made its first road trip, Mantle said, he and his father agreed it was best to leave. 

However, Bill Bergesch, director of scouting for the Yankees, said the team was ready to offer Mantle a contract when he left camp. 
"He had far to go to get himself back in shape," Bergesch noted. "He showed some fo the things his father had. He has the ability to hit the ball with power." 
The younger Mantle said he was not bitter at the Yankees, adding that he realized the problem may have involved the world cham­pions' surplus of quality players in spring training. 
Mike Halbrooks, general man­ager of the Dukes, beginning their first season here, said the only pressure to sign Mantle was the pressure the club put on itself when it offered the tryout. 
"At this level (class A) we have nothing to lose by giving the kid a chance," Halbrooks said. "If he makes it to the majors some day he will always' remember where he got his start." 
The Alexandria team represents the first professional baseball fran­chise in the area of the nation's capital since the Washington Sena­tors moved to Texas and became the Rangers seven years ago. 
The Dukes open their season Friday in Salem, Va. 
Weekend Sports 
BASEBALL: 
doubleheader vs. Ball State at jake Kline Field, 1 p.m. Saturday 
TENNIS: dual match vs. Iowa and Marquette at Courtney Tennis Center, 9 
a.m. and 2 p.m. Sunday 
LACROSSE: vs. Albion College at Stepan Center, 2 p.m. Friday , 
ROWING: 
dual match vs. Wayne State and Grand Valley State at Mishawaka Marina, 1:30 p.m. Saturday 
Crew, Rugby summaries 
[continued from page 15] State. There will be a race starting every 45 minutes. Everyone is encouraged to go out and support some of the more dedicated athletes on this campus. 
********· 

The Fighting Irish ruggers emerged victorious in two out of their threee matches with the powerful Indy Reds Rugby Club last weekend. The NotTe Dame 'A' team was dealt their worst defeat of the spring, 30-0, in the first contest of the afternoon. The Red's serum proved to be too phsical and experienced for their Irish oppo­nents. 
A hustling Notre Dame 'B' team 
Friday 3:00 -6='>0 3-4 25• Been 3-6 so• Wine 

wasted no time in establishing the tempo of the second match. A determined Irish serum was the key in the "Piggies" keeping their undefeated record as the Irish rolled over the. Reds by a score of 22-0. The C team claimed the second Notre Dame victory of the afternoon. 8-4. Two early scores proved to be enough for the Irish to win. 
The Irish open their home season against Ball State tomorrow at 1:00 
p.m. The A.B. and C teams will be in action on the playing fields behind Stepan Center. 
The sailing team was in action last weekend at Southern Illinois University and this weekend they travel to the Admiral Cup Regatta held at Illinois. 
9:00-2:00  
9 -10  25• Been  
10  -11 *1.50 PHehen  
..  1M Enlertllnment  

loeated 1Mt IMI SMC dlnl hal 
'---·--------------------------~-----------···-"
...... 

....______ 
-·--~--------·­


Friday, April14, 1978 
the observer 15 
Lacrosse, Crew,Rugby Roundup 
IT;::~thee~~~~~:::::~~~~~l~:~i~~ the Small School N ,~li~~J!r~fr~e~sh~m~a~n~a~t~d~u~Lac~~·~M~t~.~C~a~r~m~e~l~ 

by BID Caldwell Sports Writer 

On Wednesday night the Notre Dame Lacrosse Team defeated Michigan State in a thrilling over­time contest on State's home field, 12-11. 
Carl Lumblad had 5 goals to power the Notre Dame team to its victory. The Irish also had two goals apiece from Tim Michaels, John Gray, Paul Rizzo and a single tally from Mike Kincella. 
The defense also played an outstanding game to help the team. 
Goalie Rich Mazzei was incredible in the nets, backed uip on defense by juniors Marc Tallmadge, John Mandico, Jimmy Ray Williams, John Vercruysse and seniors Marc Carberry and Dan Welch. 
The Irish were not as fortunate over the weekend as they dropped two games. They lost to Ashland 9-5 on Saturday, and to Purdue 5-4. on Sunday. 
The Notre Dame "B" team lost to MSU 10-4 on Wednesday night after beating Purdue's 'b' team on Sunday 10-6. 
NOTICES 
Logan Volunteers and Interested Stud­ents: Don't forget the annual campout Is this weekend, A-ril15th and 16th. Bring asleeping bag and meet at Logan Center Sat. morning at 11:30 am. We'll return at Logan on Sunday at 3:30 pm. Tell your friends to come because we need lots of volunteers for this trip. Any questions feel free to call Art Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391). 
Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh and back for An Tostal weekend. She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company. Call 6734. 
Typing done Reasonable rates Callll086 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc...typed. IBM selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287-4971 
Baggage truck to Long Island -N. Y.C. area. Send $5.00 deposit to Kevin Mescall 319 Alumni. Questions call Kevin at 283-1181 or Ed Fitzpatrick at 283-7443. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS: Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona 85011. 
Flanner Records Inventory Clearance Sale: All $7.98 LP's in stock only $4.97. All $6.981ist LP's In stock only $4.39. All double LP's specially priced. Flanner Records 322 Flanner Ph. 2741 Hours: M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:00 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Seiectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best." 
FOR RENT 
Fine houses In good neighborhoods (Portage and Angela area) Reasonable rents. For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto. 234-6688 
Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Two completely furnished houses for rent this summer -a couple blocks from campus, safe neighborhood. One four bedroom, one six bedroom, approx $100 a month. 277-3604. 
1 bedroom apartment to sublet for summer. Good location, security, good terms. Call 288-7258. 
2rooms for rent. Summer school $40 per month. 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Quarter sized gold watch. Looks like It fell off a thain near post office mailboxes. Call Ray at 1812. 
Found a key with keys to Grace Hall. Probably lost during blizzard. Owner will have to Identify key ring. Call Bart 1078. 
LOST: Elgin gold watch with QOid mesh band. Back of watch has the lmtlals TR. Lost between Lewis and South Dining hall. If found, Please call 7493. 

of the Lacrosse Team are_ to have fun and play good lacrosse against the best _competition in the Mid­west.." . 
This Saturday at 3:30 Coach R1ch O'Leary's team will take on a team from Albion College. The game promises to be a good one, as Albion is one of the most physical teams that the Irish will face all year. The games are held on the Field behind Stepan Center. s.unday's.ga~e against the Univer­s1ty of Ilhnms has been cancelled. 
****...r** 

The Notre Dame crew started their spring season in Florida over break by entering the Miami 
International Invitational Regatta. The Irish men's team was very impressive, with their best perfor­mance coming from the men's 
varsity eights as they won their 
heat in the event. The women's team ran into very tough competi­tion and were unable to place. Last weekend the Irish traveled 
W. h" K f K
to 1c Ita, ansas to ace ansas, Oklahoma State, and Wichita State on Saturday and Kansas State and Nebraska on 
LOST: A levi. jean jacket on St. Patrick's eve at the Library. Call Mark 8927. 
LOST: 1 silver parker pen near or in O'Shag. Call Gina 7911. 
LOST: Cross pen-pencil set before break. I'II replaci it. It has great sentimental value. 289-8643. John Murphy. 
FOUND: A set of keys in front of Grace hall. Saturday night. Call Sean at 8876 or 8872. 
Help Marilyn save her mind. If you find a set of keys near Grace call 4-1-4775. 
LOST: Pearl ring in gold setting in the Rock last Saturday ev·ening. Call Tricia 
7850. 
FOUND: Pocket watch 4-3-78 on South Quad. To identify call Tim 1161. 
LOST: Gold pocketwatch Dillon-Rock area. Tremendous sentimental value. Mike 287-5568. REWARD. 
LOST: Blue NO jacket at Nickles. Reward. Name in Jacket. 
FOUND: A pair of wire-rimmed glasses In brown leather case. Call Bob at 1694. 
LOST: Navy blue "Tote" umbrella at Sr. Bar on Sr. Women's night. I have someone else's black umbrella. Please call me If you have mine. Alicia 8117. 
FOUND: Gold watch with black band. Please call and identify. Joe 288-2688 
LOST: To the guy who picked me up hitch-hiking -I left a red folder in your car. Tests enclosed -Please call Mike 287-5568. 
WANTED 

Waitresses needed -full or part time for local niteclub. Must be 21. Looking especially for girls who are staying here this summer. Good pay -apply at Vegetable Buddies. 
New restaurant needs waitresses and kitchen help. Experience helpful but not necessary. Apply in person after 1pm at Aunt Mike's Breakfast Barn, 51277 U.S. 31 N. one block N or Auten Rd. South Bend. Ask for Aunt Mike. 
3 gals need a roommate for next fall. Beautiful apartment. Great location. ow rates. Call 4720 or 4551. 
2or 4 Bob Seger tickets needed. 8424 or 8421. 
Need roommates to live off campus next year, If interested please call Lenny 277-2397. 
Good home for 2 puppies. Call 272-2520 after 3 pm. 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year-round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. free Information ­Write BHP Co., !lox 4490, Dept 14, Berkeley, CA 94704 
Mother works night -live-In babysitter needed. Will pay small wage. More for home than wages. Phone 291-<1531 before S:oo. 
Needed: Roommate for next year to live off-<:ampus. Have place now In Turtle Creek. Also willling to move. If Interested call Tim anytime after 11 ::.1 pm at 2n-5331 
was the excellent performance turned in by the novice men's four crew. This team won their event racing together for the first ~ime. The crew consist of Joe PoJman, Kurt Weber, Dick O'Mally, Mark Davis and coxwain Bill McKaY. 
Despite losing to Wichita State, the wen's varsity four also looked impressive. This crew, made up of Paul Cromwick Paul Shafer, Rob Wettach, Mike' Meenan and cox-wain Bill McKay, will be looked to for some victories in the future. 
The most notable individual per­formance was turned in by coxwain Bill McKay. Bill was in twelve
S d d h d
races on atur ay an e steere the best course of the day for all the 
· 
crews competmg.
Th • · 
e women s team ran mto very
"ff · · · d
stl competitiOn agam an were
bl C d" h ld b
una 1 re It s ou e
e to pace.given to the womens team because 
thedy are n~w to ~he sport of robw~ng, an expeJiencell 1 ~ n.ecessary e,ore yoOu caSn odwe hUJII~. h 
n un ay t e rls went away
t h d d · K emp y an e agamst ansas State and Nebraska. This season 
f~~~~sse:. toT~: ~~!x~i!~n! ~~:l f~~ 
of the season. With 


FOR SALE 
1975 Honda 750F Super Sport Motor­cycle. Excellent condition-ready to ride. Call 272-7857 -Bllce can be seen over weekend or evenings after 6 pm. 
1968 Nood -71,000 miles, a little rough, but it runs good. 
1968 Nova -71000 miles, a little rough, but it runs good · Tires new Aug 77, Battery new Nov. 77. $200 or best offer. Call Jeff-232-6177 before 10 am or after 9 pm. 
Stereo equipment major brand discounts on fully guarantned, factory sealed, audio-video eqpt. Elliot Enterprises Park Court, Buchanan, Mlch 49107 Call Niles toll free 683-Q121. 
Full color Cotton Bowland USC football; UCLA, Kentucky 11nd Maryland basket ball pictures for ula. Sports Illustrated 1111terlalat alow price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Used golf balls lik11 new $20.00/100 and other prices. Call 272-m&4. 
70 Olds Cutlass Good Shape. A/C 350 HP. $900. 272-5513. 
1973 Vega-55,000 miles, rust on body ­mechanically Inspected. 234-5686. 
1973 LTO 1D-passenger station wagon. Automatic transmission, power steering, power brakes, radio, tinted glass and luggage rack. Slight body damage. 234-5686. 
Technics turntable -model SL-1400MK2 professional series, direct drive. Mint condition -only 2 weeks old. Need money. Call Mark 233-5356. 
Last offer -Classical ovation guitar with new hard case perfect condition $225 Call Gena 1694. 
EI.JR~PE l4:'' J/. ~~"u'-rnlJ 
lltdn 12 ldr'l: 
" '" '"' (800) 325-4867 
1f1.1r •Ill_<. :f ' 0< 't"f> )'OUI lf.tYf'l .-tQt-t'll 
11 '" "•' @ Un:Travel Charters 'M 
PERSONALS 
Applications for next semesters Junior Advisory Council are due student activities Wed. Apr. 9 
Thanks to all our friends who helped so much. Dan, Erin, Pat, and Bill 
Amoeba -manl,a will soon sweep the campus. 
The amoebas will flaunt their extraord­Inary basketball talents for the world to see. They challenge all comers in the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Rem­ember:Amoebas do not know the ll'llln­lng of the word def81t. 
The amoebas are ready. Are you? 
The John Kennedy fund is rolling. Thanks to those who have given. To the rest -give soon. The party Is getting close. Free JK! Need dancing girl for stag affair Sat nile. Endowment and dancing experience necessary. Call1695 to apply. Lyons frosh with the smile In the south dining hall Call1695. 
Welcome Baby Terrazino. Congrats Barb and Ang. 

donation of two new boats by The Irish open at home tomorrow Starcraft, talent, and ~little bit of at 1:00 p.m. on the St. Joe river luck this goal could become a against Grand Valley and Wayne reality. [continued on page 14] 
Football recruits 
,[continued from page 16] 
garded by some football scouts as only a couple of years of experience shy of being able to play in the National Football League. Dan Devine outrecruited Woody Hayes 
and Bo Schemblecher for this highly touted prepschooler. Harry Oliver is the other Moeller 
product that will don a golden helmet next year. Olive is a top notch punter-placekicker. 
The Irish coaches went down the street to sign Plymouth High
School standout Pete Buchanan. Buchanan (6-3, 215 lbs.), who gained more than 5,000 yards in his high school career, is a power
h fi . rf .

runner t at should 1t m pe ectly to the Notre Dame program. For the second year in a row a Boushka will be enrolled as a 
SMC -NO Students:ARE YOU AN ADOPTED CHILD? Volunteers needed for asociological research project. Please contact: Claudia SMC 4544 · Confidentiality and anonymity assured 'please contact before April 20. 
Tim, I have confidence in sunshine...and you. Good luck tomorrow! 
Love, Kath. 
4Z Yes, 1do. What do you do? And where are you? 44 
To the five amoebas, You formless blobs of spineless .slime are no match for us higher vertebrates. Boo-boo and the Yogis 
Snake, Thanx for the ride. stranded in NY 
Cathy, Lose some weight you'd look great. An honest friend 
Columbus Ohio, 
Female roommate wanted to share apt. this summer. Call Debbie 1329 
Welcome Mama Fig, Mama Davis, Ole Miss Rebel, my shugins, Brenda Sue, and Wanda Kitty. I'm glad y'all are here. Fig 
Karen N., Happy Birthday. Love, Mom& Dad 
Holy Cross Hogs: sunday April 16 Is Rich Caldera's 21st birthday. Throw him in the lake. 
Gina: Conwats on your Trip. "Bcevo xoposhevo' 
Cathy Kelly -Happy 21st birthday Sunday. Be good and have fun. diane 
CLBK-
I'm better for the smile you give 
And while I live 
I will follow you ... 
I will stay with you ... 
I will love you. 
'Allo Bruce (Butch) 
Bruce, Bruce (toot-toot) and myself here would like to wish you a belated Happy Birthday from the University of Walla­maloo. Thought the sunshine and sharks got your personal, huh? 
"Close" Friends 

Hoan, Best of Luck Saturday. Remem­ber, I'm behind you all the way. Jeff 
Green '76 MGB for sale. Excellent condition. Call Shari 4-1-4981 
Who could Imagine that agentleman like Tim Grothaus would start an icing, shaving cream and mud fight? 
Eddie Alexander: Good luck with M-Cats. Let's have another rendezvous on the steps ­
Pepsi 

Grlzz Is the Grubbiest. Vote Grlzz Nelllst UMOC. 

-Send contr1­


product Mike Boushka joins brother Dick as a wide receiver on the Fighting Irish squad. He is another newcomer that could see 
action next year. 
Devine has continued with "all­around athlete" recruiting philos­ophy as he welcomes Steve Cichy to 
the 1978 squad. Cichy played both quarterback and running back at Shanley High School in Fargo, North Dakota but is anticipating jumping to the other side of the line of scrimmage with the Irish. 
Devine also tabbed the top prospect out of New England in 5-10, 186-pound runningback
Berni·e Adell, who hai"ls from Ipswich Mass. High School. The official Notre Dame recruit lwisetekw.ill be released later next 
18 the observer Friday, April 14, 1978 
Colleges reveal top football recruits 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 

It is ironic that Notre Dame 
dropped pesky Pittsburgh from the 
schedule after this year and added 
the Volunteers of Tennessee. The 
Panthers gave Irish fans fits for the 
past four years and are now leaving 
but coaching genius Johnny Majors 
will once again grace the fields of 
Notre Dame Stadium when his 
alma mater, Tennessee, comes into 
town. 

What makes it all ironic is the fact that after escaping one thorn in their side, the Irish football program is running into another rose bush. Majors brought a hopeless Pitt football program to a National Championship and he is on the right path to repeating his heroics with the Vols. The Irish better get in their last licks next _vcar because if the recruiting fl'ports are right. the trip back to Tennessee in 1979 is going to be a rough one. With very few top notch high school football players undecided. it looks as though Majors came up with the proverbial "ncam of the crop." 
By most scouts standards, there will be nine blue chip football players enrolled at Tennessee next year. Although that never assures !>Ucccss. it certainly does not hurt. Majors seems to be following the formula he used at Pittsburgh; find the best running back in the nation and build a wall in front of him. 
Majors has corraled four runners of superstar potential in Glen Ford, Dcnnnis Mahan, Terry Daniels and James Berry. Ford is the biggest of the quartet at 6-2. 189 pounds. but James Berry at 6-2. 185 pounds is no mama's boy. Ford hails from Greensboro, North Carolina while Berry is from North Natchez. Miss­
ssippi. The other two backs are Dennis Mahan (6-l, 175 lbs.) from Martinsville, Virginia and speed­ster Terry Daniels (5-10, 185 lbs.) out of Coral City (Fla.) High School. The other five recruits are all lineman and could build an impres­. sive wall. Kenny Jones (6-4, 230 lbs.) is the only home-state player coming from Nashville, Tennessee. Lee Burton (6-5, 230 lbs.), Lee North (6-2, 235 lbs.), Carlton Gunn (6-3, 248lbs.), and Mike Cofer (6-3, 225 lbs.) all have a bright future ahead of them and will probably 

i

-..\ 
Plymouth's Pete Buchanan will enroll at Notre Dame in the fall. 
get to meet the Irish nose to nose very soon. 
Notre Dame might have beaten Texas at the Cotton Bowl, but the Longhorns have staged a comeback in the recruiting races. while Texas 
struck a recruiting bonanza, the 
Trojans of USC might have re­
cruited themselves to a National 
Championship (do not tell Long­
horn coach Fred Akers that.) 
Southern Cal did not have to go far out of their back yard to nab the two best defensive lineman on the west coast. Joe Murray (6-4, 245 lbs.), a tackle from Los Angeles, and Charles Ussery (6-4, 240 lbs.), . another tackle, will cause coaches to think twice before sending a runner up the middle against the Trojans (some people call that 
manslaughter). 

John Robinson also snared one of 
the best arms in the country in 
quarterback Scott Tinsley (Putnam 
City, Okla.). Tinsley may one day 
become a famous combination with 
another Trojan recruit, Tim White. 
'White (Asbury Park, N.J.) played! 
quarterback in high school but with 
9.2 second speed in the 100-yard dash, the switch to split end is inevitable. 
On defense Notre Dame's rivals 
have picked up linebacker Riki 
Gray and Marcus Allen from 
Tuscan, Arizona and San Diego, 
Cal. respectively. 

Lou Saban continued his rebuild­
ing program at Miami University 
by convincing 6-4, 265-pound de­
fensive lineman Lester Williams to 
stay where the sun shines. Who 
said weather does not become a 
factor; Williams was also wooed by 
Colorado, Michigan, Ohio State, 
Oklahoma and UCLA. 

Even Navy will be beefing up in preparation of their clash with NO as Moeller High School's offensive guard, Kevin McCarthy, accepted an appointment at the Naval A­cademy. 
Michigan coack Bo Schembech­ler is claiming another banner year 
for recruiting. Heading his list of The recruiting sea is deep and 
blue chippers are gargantuan line­Notre Dame usually knows where 
men Chuck Rowland (6-5.~270 lbs.) to go fishing. Dan Devine once 
and Steve Riley (6-6, 260 lbs.) from again visited Moeller High School 
Barberton, Ohio and Boston, Mass. in Cincinatti and it paid off. The 
respectively. Quarterback Kevin number one football high school in 
Smith (Dallas, Texas) may be the the country will be sending two of 
heir to Ricky Leach in the Michigan their graduates to Notre Dame to 
program. On the other side of the join former Moeller standouts Jay 
street, Michigan State did not fair Case, Tim Koegel, and Dave 
too badly in the recruiting wars. Condeni. 
The Irish fans can relax now. All The biggest prize is Bob Crable, 
the top high school talent was not a 6-4. 215 pound linebacker re-
grabbed up by their opponents. 
[contlnued on page 15] 

Swim award winners announced by Stark 
Notre Dame swimming coach Southfield, Michigan was the recip-Dennis Stark has announced 21 ient of two awards. Caverly was monogram winners aud four award presented the Top Student Athlete winners for the 1977-78 season and Award by the Notre Dame Alumni the captain for the 1978-79 team. Club of St. Joseph Valley. Caverly, 
John Nolan, a fifth-year archi-a three-year monogram winner and tecture student from Pittsburgh. holder of the varsity record in the Pa., was elected captain for the one-meter dive, maintains a 3.64 1978-79 team by a vote of present average in the College of Arts and monogram winners. Nolan. who Letters. earned his first monogram as a Caverly was also voted the butterflier this year, also excels in Charles W. Blanchard Award by the individual medley. members of the team. The award 
·John Komora, a freshman and is presented annually by the Dol­graduate of John Adams High phin Club to the .swimmer or diver School in South Bend, was voted who by his performance. inspira­the team's most valuable swimmer. tion. and leadership. has contrib­
Komara established four varsity uted the most to the swimming records this year in the 500 and program. 1000 yard freestyle and the 200 and I 'J 11-78 monogram winners, 400 yard individual medley. other than Petro, Komora, Nolan, 
Andy Petro, a senior from Allen-and Caverly. included seniors town, Pa.. was voted the most Steve Fitzmorris, Ed Fitzsimons (a improved swimmer on the team. two-time most valuable swimmer), Petro became the team's leading team captain Jim Severyn, and breaststroker, establishing varsity Fritz Shadley. sophomores Mark records in the 100 and 200 yard Chiles and Tom Hartye. and fresh-distances. men Dave Campbell and Rod 
Senior diver Joe Caverly of McLaughlin. 
Leo Latz:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::;:;:::::::: 
TILCS to complete hat trick? 
·:·:-:-:-:-:·:-=·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-::-:-:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Bookstore Ten
Top 


Bookstore Basketball Fever! The craze that has swept the campus these past few weeks is now upon us. As a result. the tourney's field of 256 teams registered in a record time of two and a half days. I could have easily taken another tOO teams into the tournament, but due to lack of time, space, and manpower that number of teams in this tournament would be impossible. 
The quality of teams in this year's tournament is better than ever. In this column I have attempted to select the Top Ten teams on the basis of past bookstore performances and team participants, but these are only my picks. There are many "Cal-State Fullertons" this year, so any team can grab a cherished spot in the Elite Eight. 
[lj TILCS V •••This is the fifth and final year for the Tiles and it is also the last hurrah for four-year Tile man Dave Batton. Batton. Bookstore Basketball's MVP the p,ast two years, doesn't like his pre-bookstore rating. "There are too many good teams in this year's tournament to pick a number-one team. It is anybody's tourney,'' notes· Batton. The "Number-one jinx" didn't seem to bother the Tiles last year though, as. they captured a second consecutive bookstore championship. Batton had a fine supporting cast in that title run with the likes of Joe Montana and Bill Sheehan. This year, Batton has recruited Wilie Fry and Mike Miller from Zahm Hall's successful 1977 inter-hall team to replace the loss of John Dubenetsky and Tom Kirby. Dubenetsky and Kirby were members of the Tiles' last two title teams. But with leaper Montana and lefty sharpshooter Sheehan, the addition of Fry and Miller could create a virtual bookstore dynasty for the Tiles. The 6-3. 237 lbs. Fry is an unstoppable force underneath and Miller is a slick 6-1 play-making guard. 
[2] STRAPAMASQUON AND HIS COMBAT WOMBATS•••This might be the youngest team in bookstore history to achieve such a lofty pre-bookstore rating. Led by freshman sensation Kelly Tripucka. this team features two frosh quarterbacks with impressive credentials not only 00 the gridiron but on the hardcourt as well. Pete Holohan is the first athlete in New York state history to be named first team all-state in both football· and basketball. The 6-4. 200 lbs. Holohan displays a remarkable outside touch for a big man. but he also likes to mix it up underneath. 6-4 Greg Knafelc. an all-area performer from Wisconsin. utilizes his tremendous jumping ability in his fast break style of play. Willie Fessler and Owen McCormick are the backcourt tandem for this young but powerful squad. 
[3] TAPPA KEGGA BRUS••• Bill Laimbeer's squad placed third two years ago after falling to the Tiles III in the semi-finals. After a year lay-off, Laimbeer is ready to· challenge for this year's title. Returning from Laimbeer's 1976 team is 6-6 Hoosier Award winner Jim Fritsch. Fritsch, a line perimeter gunner, is also a fierce competitor underneath the rims. 6-4 Gary Forystek and 6-l Ross Christensen are a pair of footballers that make Tappa Kegga Brus a "team to beat" in this year's tourney. 5-9 Dave Lower, a former cheerleader, will handle the point guard chores. 
[4] LEO'S LAST•••This team is aply named as they are the 256th team in the bookstore field. But they are 256 in number only. This quintet will make a serious run at bookstore supremacy. Notre Dame backcourt star Jeff Carpenter proved he is a tenacious performer not only in the friendly confines of the ACC, but also in the setting of the physical bookstore courts. In last year's third round, Carpent~ smashed into a steel 

bookstore pole breaking his collarbone. play in that game as well as a losing section· Carpenter is back this year with two retur~ 
....... 




Pangborn on Saturday from 2:00-5:00 p.m. and on Sunday from 7:00-midnite. 
Dave Batton's TILCS have won 
I will be a guest on WSND's (6400) "Speaking of Sports" to be aired live the Bookstore Tourney for the 
on Sunday at 10 p.m. You can call in to ask any questions you have about last two years. 
the Bookstore Tournament. 
....... 


Marty "Coolhand" Mooney and two-time All-Bookstore Dana Snoap are both consistent players. Carpenter has added 6-6, 276 lbs. Steve "Tiny" McDaniels to reign as "chairman of the boards" and versatile Rusty Lisch who was a member of Billy Paterno's Average White Team. last year's runner-ups. 
[5] T.B. EXPRESS #l.•.Of the four T.B. Express teams, this one looks to be the strongest as they boast Notre Dame's own version of the Doctor of Dunk. Orlando "Tree" Woolridge. With his slamming, jamming, fast-break style of play. Woolridge could become one of the most dominating and entertaining players in recent bookstore history. Ty Dickerson and Jim Stone are two gridders who will add to the fast break potential of this first T.B. Express team. Stone once scored 37 points and grabbed 27 rebounds in a game as an all-stater from Washington. Rounding out the squad will be former football player and Bengal Bouter Kenny Harris. 
[6] CHUMPS TOO••• A final four team last year, the Chumps include Bill Hanzlik, one of college basketball's finest defensive specialists, and 1977's Mr. Bookstore. Tom Sudkamp. John Connor, a former varsity player at LaSalle, completes the front court. The backcourt will consist of 6-2 Larry Morris, a player noted for his defensive and ball-handling skills, and Dave Marcel, an electrical engineering major who utilizes court savvy as a major part of his game. 
[7] LINDA LOVELACE AND THE GANG•••Randy Haefner, captain of this team sums up their motto in this year's tourney. "We're not worried about winnin' or losin', we're just out to do some brusin'." Nevertheless, this squad will probably win more than they lose with the likes of Haefner and Notre Dame assistant coach Scott Thompson. Thompson was all-Big 10 at Iowa and was drafted in the fourth round by the Detroit Pistons. But this team could also do some "brusin" with gridders Doug Becker and 6-4, 230 lbs. Pete Johnson, an all-stater from Wisconsin in basketball. 6-4 Gary Thompson and Dan Hatfield complete the team. 
[8] THE NUTMEGGERS•••A top-rated team the past two years, the Nutmeggers include the Meyer brothers, 6-4 Mike and 6-5 Mark. They are a powerful and aggressive rebounding duo that are well suited for the bookstore classic. But so is the rest ofthe team as their name implies. 6-3 leaper Tim Kardok was a first team all-bookstore selection last year. 6-5 gridder Keith McCormick and Mike Howard are the other members on this awesome team. 
[9] THE BUTCHER BROTHERS•••This is another team which is more than ready for the bookstore style of play. With a front line of Bruce Flowers, 6-5, 247 lbs. Dave Huffman and 6-4, 234 lbs. Kevin Hart, who needs to worry about rebounds? Dillon Hall's Tom Feifer and Bill Seegar will have the task of getting the ball to this formidable front line. 
[10] YEAH, WE GOT OUR ASSES KICKED TWO YEARS AGO 21-3, GOT PUSHED AROUND LAST YEAR 21-10, BUT NOW OUR 6-7 CENTER QUIT AND OUR BEST SHOOTER QUIT•••This is my number-ten team on virtue of their team name. 
BOOKSTORE BANTER: Schedules can be picked up in Room 140 







