

Roemer announces fine for drinking in stadium 
by Dan Letcher 
Overcrowding was the subject of Student Body Vice President Mike Roohan's address to the Hall President Council (HPC) in Keenan Hall chapel last night. 
Roohan stated that Student Gov­ernment is "in the process of preparing a report for the Trustees in mid-October concerning over­crowding." He passed out letters and asked that the hall presidents provide written responses. The letters will offer material for the report to be given to the Trustees. 
The letter asks what the presi­dents feel about freshmen living in temporary quarters, what they believe the cause of this -problem is, what can be done about it and 
=::=:=:===~~~....;.-----.;....;;;;...' 
There will be an organizational muting for Sr. M arlta's Primary Day School on Thursday, September 7 at 7 p.m. In the Little Thutre on the first floor of LaFortune. All thou lnteruted In twterln1 elllldren betwun the agu of 7and 12 are encouraged to 
aHIId, . 
individuals' spirit. 
Roohan stated that "input from hall presidents is essential." He also scheduled a meeting on September ·11th at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. This meeting will focus on hall main­tenance and plans to use and find more social space which Roohan emphasized as two other primary campus problems. 
Mardi Gras Chairman John McCaustin announced that the event will take place February 9-17. Construction will start January 27. 
Bob Morin, assistant chairman for Mardi Gras, advised the council members that they should pick their hall managers sensibly and "not just toss the burden on anybody." Morin also said that 
[Continued on page 3]-We cannot afford to fail." 

The Observer-
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
I 

Vol. XIII, No.7 Wednesday, S.ptember 6,1978 
Conflicting goal.s mark ·opening of Mideast summit conference 
l:AMP DAVID, Md. [AP) • Anwar Sadat and Menachem Begin headed into mountaintop isolation and the uncertainties of a Mideast summit conference today, already in conflict over its goals and the role to be played by President Jimmy Carter. 
"We come here at a crucial crossroad," Sadat said on his arrival at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington. "The chal­len~e is tremendous. We have no chotce but to accept the challenge. 
Signaling his conflict with Begin, the Egyption president said: "This is no time for maneuver and for worn-out ideas. It is time for magnanimity and reason." 
Sadat got a red-carpet welcome at Andrews from Vice President Walter F. Mondale and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance. Nearly 200 Egyptian well-wishers sang a national song from behind a secur­ity from behind a security barrier. Sadat walked over to them and waved. 
After his arrival speech, Sadat boarded a helicopter for the fmal leg of his trip to Camp David, northwest of Washington, where Carter was waiting. A similar welcome was arranged for Begin, as well as a helicopter ride to the summit. 
The Israeli prime minister, a negotiator with a reputation for time-consuming attention to detail, viewed the talks in the seclusion of Camp David as an opportunity to reaffirm the peace covenant he made nine months ago with Sadat. 
Begin says he hopes a basis can be found for continuing Egyptian­Israeli talks -presumably at a lower, ministerial level -lasting months if necessary to achieve a settlement. 
Sadat, impatient with details and given to bold, history-changing moves, considers the summit "the last chance for peace." 
He has rejected Begin's sugges­tion of deliberate consideration over several months of the in­numerable issues in conflict between Israel and its Arab neigh­bors. "I say no to long, drawn-out talks," Sadat said before leaving home. 
It was Carter who took the political gamble of inviting Begin and .Sadat to Camp David. But Begin feels any settlement must flow from direct bargaining between Egypt and Israel and cannot be imposed by the United States. Carter therefore, is seen by Begin as a mediator but not a formulator of peace terms. 
At Sadat's urging, howev~r, 

·Helmuts arrive in time for first interha/1 game 
by Ray McGrath institutions sponsoring inter-­
collegiate sports programs, but 

Dominick Napolitano, Director of also from a $600,000 lawsuit which Nonvarsity Sports, announced Wilson lost in May following the yesterday that football helmets injury of a young athlete on the which complied with new NCAA East Coast. safety specifications have been Napolitano had the helmets ordered by the University and will which were already in stock for arrive in 'time to allow the schedul-interhall play inspected by a Wil­ing of an interhall football season. son group which found very few 
The new helmets, purchased helmets which could meet the new, from Wilson Manufacturers, are rigid NCAAstandards. expected to arrive by Sept. 15. No firm response was made by Napolitano stated that an abbrevia-the NCAA to an Athletic Depart­ted schedule of games will begin ment request for a ruling as to within two weeks after the helmets whether the safety specifications are received. applied to intramurals. therefore, a 
Four divisions of teams will 'special allocation of close to compete, two divisions from each $15,000 was made for the purchase quad, with the winners of each of 350 new helmets. division advancing to a playoff. Regarding the ideals of the According to Napolitano, each hall intramural sports program, Napoli­team can expect to play four games tano stated that having the "best in divisional play. equipment is much more important 
The concern over the safety than the length of the football status of interhall headgear had · eeason." He stressed that no arisen not only from the NCAA chances would be taken with a memorandum which was sent to .student-athlete's safety. 
Carter has accepted the role ot "full partner" in the talks. Sadat wants him to overcome Begin's resistance to committing Israel to withdrawal from the west bank of the Jordan River and to Arab sovereignty over the area. 
One clear implication is that, if a breakthrough is not achieved, Sadat will review Egypt's options, including military measures. Most analysts do not think Cairo is strong enough to wage a war with Israel now, even if Sadat's ruptur­ed alliance with Syria is healed. 
Carter flew to Camp David; a 134-acre hideaway in the Catoctin Mountains of western Maryland, on Monday. [continued on page3( 
•
byMam.Kovu 

Dean of Students James A. Roemer has set a minimum fine of $50 for any student caught drinking 
~l~~i\) alcoholic beverages Saturday at the
Missouri football game.
He said that if abuse is serious, violators will be "separated from the community.'' 
Roemer issued the order in a letter Sept. 4 to administration officials. The campus security staff will scout out students drinking in the stands and will confiscate kegs at tailgaters in Green Field. 
"We haven't changed. the rules. We're just going to crack down on enforcement· Saturday," Roemer said, addhtll. "Students won't be allowed to drink in dorm corridors or on University grounds." 
Roemer statel! in his letter to administrators that "strict sanc­tions will be imposed on offenders as a means of insisting on sobriety.'' 
Roemer had considered alterna-
Roohan speaks to HPC on overcrowded conditions 

_tives but decided that the fine and 
possible suspensions would most 
effectively deter student drinking. 
"We have a serious alcohol 

problem on campus," according to 
Roemer who said that between 
60-70 percent of students referred 
to his office last year had alcohol­
related problems." Administrators 
and rectors have asked for action, 
which resulted in the current 
crackdown. _ 
"I don't think the student would 

have taken me seriously if I had 
walked from dorm to dorm giving 
lectures," he said. Roemer also 
noted that former penalties were 
ineffective as deterrents. 
"Last year, a student was hand­

ing out beer on campus a week 
after he worked 20 hours on campus 
as penalty for stadium drinking,'' 
said Roemer. 
Posters advertising kegger 
parties and local taverns will be 
taken from walls and billboards on 
campus. Campus security and 
police will prevent anyone with 

liquor or beer from entering the stadium, according to Joe O'BrleJ!, . assistant director of the Athletic Department. . 
Adults and the general public will not be affected by Roemer's mandate. The Dean of Students only has jurisdiction over students. Although adults won't be penalized by the University, they will be asked to leave if intoxicated in 
__public "as part of the campus-wide effort,'' Roemer said. Roemer, who serves as director of the Notre Dame Senior-Alumni Club staff, supports socializing and social drinking, for 21 year olds. He said that the University is cracking down on minors irrespon­sible use of alcohol. Roemer noted that this year's Alcohol Awareness program will offer counseling for students with drinking pro~lems. He said that, although reportedly ten percent of the people in the country are alcoholics, he thinks that the · percentage of Notre Dame students who have drinking problems is higher. 

.... 
-· 

...2~=-~t....,h..,e~observer ______ W_!_dnasday, se!!!_~_!_·~ 6, 197&_ 
,_News Briefs----~ 
I-::-:=:=:===-=-=-::::::::=::::::::=:=:::::::==-========::::: w0 rid 
Terrorist bombs in Israel 
JERUSALEM -Two bombs planted by Arab terrorists exploded in 
Jerusalem yesterday on the eve of the Camp David_ summit, 
seriously injuring a gasoline station attendant and a pohce trench , 
digger from America who emigrated to Israel_after serving in _the 
Vietnam War, authorities said. Both of the inJured were hurt tn a 
bomb blast near a gasoline station. The second bomb went off 
under an empty tourist bus outside the Jaffa Gate entrance to the 
Old City and no one was hurt, the police said. Those who had been 
on the bus are in Israel for a conference of international travel 
writers. In Beirut, Lebanon, the Palestine Liberation Organization 
claimed responsibility for both blasts and vowed to stel? up 
"military action against vital targets in areas the enemy considers 
sealed off by security." 

r=-==:-::-=--=--=================== National 
Postql wage talks resume 
WASHINGTON-Union negotiators pressed the U.S. Postal Service yesterday for a bigger wage increase as bargainers, seeking t~ ave_rt a mail strike, resumed face-to-face contract talks for the first time tn nearly six weeks. With a Sept. 16 deadline ha_nging over th~m, officials from the postal service and thr~e. umons. rep~esentmg 516 ()()() workers held their first joint bargammg sesswn smce theyrea~hed a tentative agreement in July to avoid a ~t~ike. That earlier settlement was rejected by union members, rev1vmg threats of an illegal, nationwide mail strike and ~romptin~ a new, 15-day ~et of talks under the guidance of a spe1cal med1ator. The mediator, Harvard professor James Healy, called the bargainers into joint session yesterday following three days of separate "exploratory" talks he held with each side beginning last Friday. 
Weather 
Clear, mild nights with sunny, warm days through tomorrow. High 
today and tomorrow in the upper 80s. 

~On Campus Today_~ 
3pm. tennla m1tch, st. mary's vs. st. joseph college, regln1 court1. 
6:30 pm. m eetlng, organizational m eetlng for aslllng club, rm. 204 o'1h1g. 
7 pm. colloqulm, "freshmen thelolgy and life," theology 100n, library 1udltorlum. 
7 pm lecture, transcendental meditation, "sims club, rm. 120, o'1h1g. 
7-10 pm. 1udltlon1, wsnd volunteer positions, wsnd studio, 4th floor o'1h1g. 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mik:e Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Gruley Doug Christian 
*The Observer 
Night Edltar: M argle Brassll Aut. Night Editor: Anne Grlffln L1yout St1ff: Jim Rudd, Bart Corsaro, Joe Wheaton Futuru L1yout: Bryan Gruley, John Calcutt Sparta L1yout: Paul Mullaney Typists: Betsy M asana, Rosie 

. R o d g e r s, Pete M c Fad d e.n , Katie Brehl 
INight Controller: M ardl Nevin DayEdltor: MarlanUiicny · Copy Reader: Kathy Connelly
r. Ad Layout: Bob Audy 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during ex.m and vautlon p.rlods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collflge. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notnr Dame, lndlena 4U56. Second c1111 postage p11d, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is 1 member of tt1e AIIOcllted ......... All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor Saint Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor Photo Editor 

WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL IN THE AIR FORCE. 
Women start out on the same footing as men in Air Force ROTC.· Women wear the same insignia and hold the same cadet positions in AFROTC, just.as they do later on as Air Force officers. ' 
And the sam~?-AFROTC scholarship can be yours as a woman. If you qualify, you can have your tuition,' book costs and lab fees paid by the Air Force, and receive $100 a month for -other expenses. It helps free you to concentrate on your education. And that's important . 
As an Air Force officer, you'll be expected to use yo,ur train­
. ing and education, and be a leader managing people and complex systems. You'll be handed executive responsibility starting with your first job. · It's a gre~ way to be equal, and a great way tc serve your country. Check into the AFROTC program at your campus. Be sure to ask about AFROTC scholarships .:.___ you may be helping yourself earn an exciting new lifestyle. 
for info: call Capt. Davis 283-6634 
Activities Night to seek members 
by Tom McSteen 
Student Activities Night, the 
final event of freshmen orientation 
is scheduled for September 11 in 
Stepan Center. 
"The purpose of Activities Night 
is to allow the various groups the 
opportunity to recruit new mem­
bers, helping these groups te 
sustain themselves," John Reid 
director of Student Activities, 
stated. 
Activities Night is sponsored by the Freshmen Orientation Commit­tee, a branch of Student Govern­ment. Carey Ewing, committee chairman, said that it is important "to get freshmen, upperclassmen and transfer students involved now, so at the end of the year they will not regret not getting involved." 
According to Ewing, "Activities Night is the only time all the groups get together. It is an excellent opportunity for the student to see what the various groups have to offer and how much time is involved with each group; enabling the student to decide what he
.
wants to do." 
Ewing said that getting involved offers a type of release from 
The Windjammer 
Creative Hair Design for the Sexes 
Relaxing Atmosphere 
Free Hair Analysis 
RK Retail Center 
1637 LWW 
So. Bend 
232·622 
APPT. only 
studying and, depending  on  the  
club,  a  great educational  experi­ 
ence.  

According to Reid, "A part of a person's education should be involvement in extracurriculars. Extracurriculars offer an opportu­nity to meet new people, learn about yourself and possibly get some practical experience in a career." 
Reid stressed that Activities Night is not just for freshmen. 
"While Activities Night has been successful in the past in regard to the freshmen, it has not been particularly successful in attracting upperclassmen. It is an excellent opportunity for a senior who has never been involved to become involved," he said. 
Most campus-registered volun­teer organizations, departmental 
honor societies and clubs, athletic 
groups, campus media and student 
body and class governments will be 
represented, as well as some South 
Bend organizations. 
The groups will provide informa­tion and answer questions about their policies, purpose and membership regulations. 
"The clubs will be there. It is up to student participation to make the evening successful,'' Ewing stated. 
Debate Council plans meeting 
The first organization meeting of this year for the Notre Dame Debate Council will take place Thursday, at 7:30p.m. in Washing­ton Hall auditorium. 

A\\~e. I


Ro&n''"'R,o\ 
~au CAV\~-to\ 


• L\~e.. Ku.~\c. eD\~c...o
.o"' u~_3\,ore
m'\e rof-t-n of+he 
~\\Y\e. 
• ~u.~-t ~\<a o~ O~f 



SBULMS 
PIITB CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-Free Parkin£ -Ph. 683-4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 
~ ··~-·································································································; 
Idea§ for inve5tor5. 
RONEY&CO.  stl>c  
SUITE 1239 ST. JOE BANK BLDG. •  SOUTH BEND, IN 46601 • 219/234-1056  
ELKHART • 679-4913  

ESTABLISHED 1925 e MEMBER: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC. 
For Information, PleiiSfl Call The Following Registered Representatives: 
•James Dettling •Fred Kahn •Bill Wilson •James Draskovits 
···········•···••···•·····•·•······•·········••••··•··········•··•········•···••••···••········•··•··· 
....'"·.· 


Largest in U.S. 
Radiation Lab receives grant 
by Diane Carey 

Each year the Radiation Labora­tory on the Notre Dame campus receives a $2 million grant, the largest U.S. government grant in the area of radiation chemistry research. 
The Department of· Energy awarded Notre Dame the research grant shortly after World War U because offacilities available in the physics department. According to Robert Schuler, director, the lab's focus of study is the intermediate 
! 
.....· ·. 
Wednesday, September&, 1971 the observer 

Roohan soeaks to HPC on overcrowded conditions 
would oe present at each HPC meeting because ''it is a good place to get ideas, and valuable construc­tive criticism may be attained." 
DelGrande announced that he had appointed Mary Paulson as the New HPC executive coordinator. 
The HPC dinner next Tuesday was discussed, as DelGrande emphasized that the event is not just a chance to "chit-chat." He stated that "the dinner serves to establish lines of communication between the halls on both campuses." 
Concerning HPC allocation, DelGrande asked each president to start thinking about his budget request. DelGrande hopes to have the budget allocation completed before the end of the semester. Each allocation application is due the second week of October. 

I 
I 
I 

The Radiation Labo· ratory, contrary to rumor, has only one underground floor not thirty-four. 
state of chemicals affected with radiation. 
"For instance, whenever water is exposed to radiation it breaks up into fragments t~at last only micro­seconds. By the time someone drinks the water, those fragments are gone. What we're really interested in are the stages the chemical goes through." 
In response to rumors that the Radiation Laboratory is the largest building on campus and contains 34 underground floors, Schuler said that there is only one underground floor where the laboratory and electron accelerators are located. 

Schuler also stated that there is 
no possibility of radiation leakage from the building that may pose a
threat to the rest of the campus. "With employees, there is what we call a potential health problem, but there's no danger to the rest of the campus," he said. 
"The (lab) walls are of heavy concrete, and there's very little penetration. Of course, we have to be careful no one's in the room when radiation is being used," Schuler explained. 
Continued from page lj raffle tickets. were going to be sold during the football season. 
HPC chairman Chuck DelGrande introduced Paul Callahan as this year's An Tostal chairman. Callahan stated that "this year's An Tostal will be bigger and better than ever." 
DelGrande asked that each pres­ident appoint a calendar coordina­tor from his hall. Gene Woloshyn, Student Union assistant director, added that calendar coordination is very important, both between the halls and Student Union. 
''A coordination of events between the halls and Student Union will help make each event more successful," Woloshyn noted. 
He also told the council that a Student Union representative 



.

' .,_ 
-...._ • 
r 
I 
6.__ tb8 Ob$8rY8[ Wednesday, September II, 19711 

f~l ().t~)~, r1~ by Michael Moli~~lli Fr. Hesburgh visits Rome 
JIM,I,.JATCH 17-1/5 
I· 


by Sue Wuetcher Staff Reporter 
"It was a -nice experience, even though it was awfully quick," University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh stated as he recalled his recent trip to Rome for the instal· Jation of Pope John Paul I as the new leader of the Roman Catholic Church. 
Hesburgh was a member of the official U.S. delegation that was headed by Vice President Walter Mondale and included seven congressmen and three senators, as well as Michael Bilandic, mayor of Chicago, Brendan Byrne, gover­nor of New Jersey. 
Hesburgh said that the delega­tion left Washington on Air Force II at 3:30 p.m. Saturday and arrived in Rome about 9 a.m. Sunday. He added that while the plane was refueling in Shannon, Ireland, a 
Anyone wishing to participate in 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT '78 
on Monday 11 Sept 7-12 pm must be at a mandatory meeting Wed. 6 Sept. at 7pm in the LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ---Please bring the authorization slip from student activities with you, 

.MIY\M~'r/YWINWW...."""'MIY\Mr!Y'i'r/YWWWW......MMN'\IIII simplicity. "His job will be to 
CB~uce 



[;ptringgteen 
attd tlte 

8 gtlleet CBattd 
gatuJrda4 oopt. 9tlt 8 p.m. Jlotke CDame J\:CC. aQQ gea~ Jtese/lved S8.00 and S7.00 

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
Close to Campus 
Apartments still auailable 1 bedrooms-Completely Furnished Complete Kitchen and Dining Room 
$.280-$300/ month · Up to 4 students II: -6363 or 234-6647 
Tony's Shoe Shop 

q u i c k s8r v i c 9 . r e a s o n a b 1 e p r 1ce s ·Coupon book for 150/0 discount now a v a i I a b I e · s h oe r 8 p a i r s & sh oe ca r e n 8 8 d s 
P L U S 

. a 11 t y p e s o 1 zip p 8 r s r 8 p a ire d :s~ ~ ~~~t,~ .'~a~~: r bg/ ~ ~ ~ ds old . winter boots available 
Ott gaQe ttOW at tlte ace bo~ ollice ~ convlen8nt location on cam pus In Badin
Of) b a s e m e n t 
op e n : M o n · F r o 8 · 5I S a t 8· 2 Ph o n e 2 8 3 ·1 1 4 4 
~~:::=::::::::=::::::::::::::=:::::::=::::::::::::::::======­



Party Down! 
E\IEl<'< ~lG\-\T Of -mE\'lEEK! 
fv1onday 
SUPER~~~~
*~~~ ~c. ~tS ~ s100 U:ehPrize 
H-No Co-ler v 5pec.a\txaft eeer ?ri~ 8-\\p.m. 11: Grft Cert\ttaries 

'Nednesday r;oXY L~D'< N\utrr 'K-~~ ~C.~f'S ~ ''00 ~""'-ze.'*NoO::Ner *Spec.\a\ t:Xaft'Bee"' fHc.~ S-\ \ pm.~ u\it Cerl\1\c:lrles 
~ 3 \Mnn\M Co..l?\es .. · · •• • • .. _ ~ 3 ~nrt\"M l..ad\es 
.. ~ •• rOlE 8Q • • ,~ 
.·· ~-..... ~·· . 
Tuesday &Th.Jrsday .:B.~i(~ · · · -~~··.. Friday & Saturday M\~ &M\~\e. 
M\.,e:.\ ~Vl~ 25~ 

~SEIINIDril~~6~~~~·
8-\\ ~.m. 
Pr\ce5 a-\O'f'm·
• W 
122W. First St., Mish. (Formerly The Hideaway) 
reporter for the Dublin Times asked him about the Fighting Irish football team. 
Hesburgh noted that he had attended the installation of Pope Pius XII in 1939. "I enjoyed this one much more," he said, adding, "I was able to concelebrate Mass with the Holy Father for the first time." 
He commented that with 250,000 people in attendance, the ceremony was "a great moving act of endorsement" for the new pope. "The sun was setting; the air was electric. All told, it was a very joyful family affair," he said. 
Hesburgh emphasized that he was very impressed with a letter that President Jimmy Carter sent to Pope John Paul. The letter noted that the two men had much in common because nobody had expected Carter to be elected either. "It was long, two pages, and full of good hope," said Hesburgh, adding, "It was signed 'Yours in Christ, Jimmy Carter'." 
Hesburgh also found it interest­ing that Fritz Mondale, whose father was a Protestant minister, brought back the papal blessing to the American people. He added that Mondale did a "superb job of representing us. He had just the right touch," Hesburgh observed. 
Hesburgh would not speculate on any changes that might occur under Pope John Paul's leadership. "No one knew him before, but everybody seemed impressed by what they saw," he said. 
The new pope's style, as seen by Hesburgh, seems to be one of 
serve the people, not lord over· 
them," he said, adding, "Obvi­
ously, he will be very interested in 
the poor." 
Hesburgh said that he talked to 
all the American cardinals, who 
look forward to the new pope being 
a "John (XXIII)-Iike" leader. "He 
seems to be a great hit with 
everybody who meets him," 
Hesburgh said. 
Wire causes 
Keenan fire 
A faulty extension wire was 
blamed for a small electrical fire 
yesterday morning in Keenan Hall. 
The fire, which broke out at about 
11:30 a.m., was quickly extin­guished by students. 
The two occupants of the room were both in class at the time of the 
. ~~~abl~~~:~~r~~~-1 tmited to a Fr. Richard Conyers, Keenan Hall rector, explained that the extension cord used to hook up the 
refrigerator had deteriorated and 
added that it was insufficient in the 
first place. The extension cord left 
the ground wire exposed behind 
the refrigerator. 
''This is a very common situation 
across campus, and students 
should be alerted to the danger and 
urged to purchase proper extension 
cords where necessary," Conyers 
said. 
The fact that the fire was quickly extinguished prevented further problems since Keenan's fire alarm system had been shut off since Friday night, when campus fire fighters responded to three false alarms at Keenan in the space of several hours. 
Nazz searching for musicians 

The Nazz, Notre Dame's coffee house, is looking for students interested in music, sound and mixing. Students are needed to. work on production, booking and engineering. There will be an organization meeting on Thursday, September 7 at 8 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. For information call Gene Barbanera at 1803. 
•.. 
, i. 

wednasday, September&, 1978 
the observer 
HPC awards Rockne Trophy to St. Edward's 
by Mary Ann Wissel 
Marty Paulson, Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) executive coordina­tor, announced last night that the Rockne Trophy winner for the month of April is St. Edward's Hall. St. Ed's coordinated a wide variety of activities which included a senior banquet and a Requium Mass for a former hall resident, Paul Keeler. 
Certificates of Honorable Mention go to Morrissey Hall ural ceremony for the new hall officers and to Breen-Phillips Hall whose activities included a sophomore class brunch at the Ice House restaurant. 
Chuck DelGrande HPC chair­man, stated that the Rockne Trophy begins its fourth year at Notre Dame this fall. ''The award was initiated to encourage hall activities and to recognize a partie­ular hall for its ourstanding contri­butions to campus life," he explained. 

as a motivational tool,• but "now it has risen to a position of prestige throughout the entire campus. It is the only award of its kind, and there's no limit to the number of times that a sin2le hall can win the award," DelGrande added. 
The Rockne Trophy is a traveling award and is kept ~ the winning hall for a month. The Rockne Trophy Plaque is placed in the glass case in the Huddle. The Plaque lists all the winners of the Trophy. 
In 1977, the HPC initiated Rockne Trophy Certificates of Honorable Mention. These certifi­cates recognize "runner-up" halls whose activities also displayed performance and quality. 
To be eligible to win the Rockne Trophy, a hall must fill out a set of activity sheets which define the activity, its location, number of persons involved and purpose. The activity sheets must be submitted by the due date which varies each month. 
Paulson summarized the criteria necessary to win the Trophy. "We look for unique hall-sponsored activities which serve the com­munity, campus and halls. It isn't just one or two activities that single out a dorm--it's more important that the dorm is active throughout the entire month:" 
DelGrande also stressed "that quality and performance in both inter-and intrahall activities play a major factor in determining who wins the ·award.'' 
send your parents a gift subscription! • 
Now's your chancelll : 
subscribe to *Observer : for only SlO. per semester •• (S20. per year) 
send payment to: THE OBSERVER CIRCULATION DEPT 
•

• 
SOXQ

• 
NOTRE DAmE, IND• • •••• 46556 •• 


name •
------------------------· 

• address • 
• zip • 
---':rl:;..-"' .:-" .. o:O> ~.:._... ~-.:....;:~en ---­
·························~···~·· 
································~···:
. . 
~~eew~~~~d~~w~ T~Trop~w~~w~~~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
NOTICES 

Now accepting students for studio voice lessons. Master's Degree in vocal per· formance and member of National Asso· ciation of Teachers of Singing. 277• 2287. 
Earn your allowance. Sell Avon In your dorm. Call 7819. 
Special Discount to all NO and SMC students on automotive parts. All you need Is your 10 card. Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric. 1101 E. Madison, So. 
Bene. 
Drummer looking for rock-country rock band. 4 yrs. exp. Call Mike 8867. 
ND·SMC Ski Team Organizational Meet· ing Sept. 6, 7:30 pm in LaFortune theatre. Newcomers welcome, team members must attend. 1 
FOR RENT 

Self Storage-100 sq. ft. & up. Special group student rates. 3001 US 3rNiles 684·4880, 684·2895. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Help. I've already lost my I D so if you find one with my name, 
A.M. Smith, on It, please call 8124. Thanx 
• Found: Glasses In red case near Stepan Center. Call Mary Pat at 4287. 
"Lost Saturday August 26 one na~y 
blue flowered zipper case contarnmg two 
strands of pearl necklace, one pair gold 
anchor earrings. Keepsake, liberal re· 
ward. Vicinity St. Mary's College 
campus, Notre Dame, Morris Inn and 
adjacent parking lot or Howard Johnson 
Restaurant in Roseland or parking lot. 
Call A. Purcell, 284·5712, or Mrs. J. 
F. Purcell (219) 923·4238 collect." 
WANTED 

Need 2 GA Tix for Missouri. Call Ray 227·4102. 
Desperately need Michigan tickets! Will pay $$$$. Call Bob 1151. 
Need 6 tickets to the Mizzou game. Call Rocco, 1479. 
Need 1student tix for Michigan will pay $$. Please call 234-1735. · 
Help my two friends realize a dream 
• they need 2 Missouri tix's. Call1518. 
: Will pay any price for 2or 4 GA : Pitt tickets. Call Shaun 7965. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
. 
: • ·l·n·~d 'tic'k~ts(3):-A~y g~~~·;th~; • .. ·: than Miami. 1535. • • 
Desparately need 2 GA tix for Mich. ! Bucks no problem. Call Bill 8333. :
. 
To repay friends, need 4 Purdue tickets : 7988 or 7912. : 
.
.
Pair Mich. GA's needed for mom and .
.
Dad. Call 8448. 
Need student Mich ticket. Call Brian 
8448. 
.
.
.. 
Desperately need one student or GA
. 
ticket to Michigan game. Cll 1842. 
Wanted: Just 1 Michigan ticket, GA or student. Bob 1143. 
Needed: Michigan GA tickets, student tickets for other games. Call after 5 pm. 272-4478. 
Will trade 2 Missouri or 2 Purdue GA tickets for 2 Tennessee. Call Sue 6734. 
Help! I need 4 GA tickets to Pitt. Call Bob at 8959. 
Wanted: Missouri Tix. Call 8991 or 8928.
..
. .
Need 2 GA tix tor Missouri. Call Jim 1034. 
Need two GA tickets for Missouri. Call 1842. 
Will pay ANY PRICEfor ~-4 Michigan tickets. Griff 234-2329. 
Wanted: any number of Missouri tickets. Will sing Missouri fight song on request. Mark-288-9988. · 
Wanted: Purdue tickets. Barb 7953. 
. ..• Desperately need Michigan TXS. . Will pay big $$. Call Bill 289-4796.
. 
Filthy Rich Aunt Is now preparing to make annual pil~rimage to Notre Dame Requires 1 GA itt ticket. Money no object! Call Scoo~ at 1m. 
"Wanted tour G.A. Michigan call collect 712-732·2842." 
. Vz GA tickets to any home game.
..
. Call Tadd 1211 .
.
.
. 
. 
Mom and Dad need 2 GA tix for Purdue. $$. Brian 8671 . 
. 
. 

SIR VICtoR's 01SCOUnt liQUOR ffiaRt 
seeR spectals 
• 
Olb ffiJlwauk€€ Qts. -$6.30/cs 

• 
hamms Qts. -$6.30/cs eSchlJtz 12-pack $3.29 • passt 12-pack -$2.99 



liQUOR spectals 
• Boston Rum -$4.99 -Qt. 
e k€SSl€R -$4.77 5th eCoown RUSS€ Vobka -$7.99 1.75 llltR€ et€n hiGh BoURBOn -~4.99 Qt. elonoon SquaR€ (j1n -$7.99 1.75 lJtR€ 
* 10% 01scount to 413 hiCkORY RO so. Beno 288-9731
all nO-smc stub€1lts 

Wantea: tiCKets to MISSOUri game. Student or GA. Will pay $$$. Call Mark, 1419. 
Need 2 GA football tickets for Missouri and/or Mickigan. Call Mike at 7838. 
Wanted: Missouri ·tickets. Please, please, please call Barb at 7951. 
Desparately need 6 tix for Michigan. Call Mike 1083. 
Wanted: 1 Purdue ticket. Will trade ' for any other game ticket-plus pay. Call Kathleen H. 4954. 
Helppp! Need GA's & students for Michigan & Pitt. $$$. Mlck-1763 $$$. 
I desperately need 4-6 GA tickets for Purdue game. Please help! Call Mac 6551. 
Need 2 Missouri tix. Call Jerry 8446. 
Needed: 2 Michigan GA tickets. Will pay $$$·Mike1478. 
Bartender, waitress, dishwasher, pizza maker, supply-man, positions open N0­SMC students welcome, full & part time employment, hourly pay·minimun wage &, apply in person= NICOLA'S Restaurant. 809 North Michigan St. close to campus. 
· Need one Missou ticket quick; call John 8400. 
Wanted: one student football ticket for Purdue game. Call 4-1-42:13. 
I am rooking for several intellligent people, of any age, who enJOY a 
modicum of self-confidence, and who would like to earn a lot of money honestly. The position requires some 
sales,. though in a very limited way. "There is no obnoxious. or anti-social work 
involved. You do not need a car or 
money for you will earn both working 
with this company-(Which happens to be 
the fastestijrowing company of its kind 
in tlie world.) You may also have 
more fun than you had in a long time. 
Call 272-2484 or 256-0208. 
Need student tickets for Purdue. Call Terry 1488. 
Need 2 Missouri GA tickets. Call Kurt 1968. 
Desperately need Pitt tickets. Money no 
object. Name your price. Call Lance 
1027.. --------­
• Wanted: one student season football ticket. Call Steve 288-5543. 
Need 1 Missouri ticket: Student or GA. Call Beth 8089. 
Need 2 student or GA tlx for Missouri game. Call John 1996. 
Wanted: four tickets to Michigan game. Call 277-2944 after 6 pm. 
I need 2 tickets to the Michigan game. I know it's just adream, but someone must have some tickets for my Mom & Dad to use! Call Jerry .1398. 
Need GA tix for any home football game. Will pay $$of course. Call Joe 1478. 
Need 1 ticket GA or student for Missouri. Please call Betsy-4366. 
Wanted: tickets to Missouri game. Student or GA. Will pay$$$. Call Mark, 1419. 
Need 1 GA Missouri ticket-all Mary 4359. 
Wanted: 2or 4 Michigan tickets. Call Bob 289-1412. 
I need 3 GA Michigan tickets! Name your price! Pat 1020. 
"NEW OBSERVER TYPISTS" Please fill out the Observer personnel sheets and tax forms (located in my box) by Friday. Very lmportlnt. When completed, place all forms back in my box. Thanks. 
Mardi 
Desperately need many tickets for the PURDUEgame. Call Paul at 1403. 

1974 Hornet Hatchback X. 1owner, . clean, good basic transprotation, low price. 287-9341. 
For Sale-"66 Rambler, very good con­dition. Mike 1953, Paul1949 all Fisher. 
PERSONALS 
SMITH & CO. • superb entertailnment at • NO RATES* IS NOW AVAILABLE! : 289-8625 after 4. Brian. Remember the Bull Moose party!!! 
Mardi: I'll get the hang of it one of these days. PROMISE!!!. 
Attention SMCreporters-Meeting at : 6:30 p.m. Thursday Sept. 7, in SMC : office-basement of Regina South-beneath. the language department. Any new : reporters welcome too. :  
Need two GA tickets for Missouri game call Mike 232-0550.  : :  
r would be grateful to anyone who can sell me tickets to the Purdue football game. l'lllisten to any offer so call me. I'm Bob, and can be reached by phone at 1780.  •  
• • : •  BYZANTINE CATHOLICS* AS WELL: AS ANY OTHERS INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE ABOUT Byzantine Christian life, should sign the list on the secretary's desk in the Campus Ministry Office (Memorial Library lobby) before September 8.  
The U.S. Ambassador is now bookm. a tour to London; only one person need apply.  

Attn. N.D.-SMC: announcinQ.first annual Kent Dorfman look al1ke contesc . For details, call Kent 8649(collect). 
Marybeth B., where were you Sunday night? Alumni Hall 
Call Lisa at 7170 and wish her a Happy 18th Birthday. 
Whos Is N. L. and what Is she running for? 
... ,·. ~~ )•.
•·-t. .' ,t •. ·• •• 
Wednudey, September 6, 1978
the observer
8 


Second-year soccer v&,rsity anxious for season's slart 
by Marl Perry Sporta Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team will be entering only its second season as a varsity sport this week, but already it has t a winning tradition to uphold. 
The Irish hooters, coached by Rich Hunter, compiled a 16-1-1 record last season, nearly qualify­ing for the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish are aiming for the playoffs again this season, and Hunter has some goals in mind which could help the Irish to a successful year. 
"We are facing a difficult schedule this season," Hunter said. "We must play consistently well, especially in the tougher games. 
"Physical shape is also very important," he continued, "and we must also remain mentally alert for the entire season." 

Mental alterness has been a Cullather, was injured very early in problem for the team in practice fall practice, but is expected to this fall. "We have installed a return in the n~xt couple weeks. different system this year," Hunter The Irish bejgin their schedule commented, "and the team hasn't this Friday, as/they face St. Louis adjusted to it well yet. Concentra-Community ~ollege on Cartier tion has not been as strong as we Field, beginniqg at 8 p.m. The first would like it this fall." nine games fot the Irish will be at 
But the team has shown some home, and Hunter believes that progress, Hunter said. "Our this will help the team to gain shooting and heading have im-confidence before they take to the proved, and the team members road at the beginning of October. know each other better.'' The toughest game of the season 
Hunter lists Jim Sabitus and for the Irish will be on October 22, Terry Finnegan as his two top when they travel to Bloomington to players for this year. Sabitus, who face Indiana University. The plays fullback and serves as one of Hoosiers were ranked third in the the four Irish co-captains, is one of nation aft~r last year, and always the best all-around players on the have a strong team. team. Finnegan, a forward and Purdue, Michigan, Michigan also a co-captain, is the leading State, and Northwestern are other scorer returning from last year's Big Ten schools on the schedule, team, scoring ten goals an~ three and games against Xavier, Dayton assists in the 14 games he played. (home and away), and Goshen 
Hunter also noted that the should prove challenging for the leading goalie for the team, Brian team. 


Sues now within half-game 
From East To West 

In 1958, mercenary owner Walter O'Malley was persuaded to move the 
successful Brooklyn Dodgers to virgin territory in Los Angeles. Horace 
Stoneham, never known as an innovator, was quick to follow O'Malley's 
lead and moved his Giants to San Francisco. New Yorkers, stripped of 
two-thirds of their major league franchises, mourned for four years before 
Joan Payson arrived as savior with the lovable, laughable Mets. (Giant 
and Dodger fans could not switch their allegiance to theYankees, 
inasmuch as it was usually the Bronx Bombers who defeated their 
favorites in the World Series.) 
The Giants and the Dodgers have a long tradition of fierce pennant 
struggles. In 1934, the Giants had one game lead over St. Louis entering 
their final season series with the lastplace Dodgers, managed by 
(surprise!) Casey Stengel. At a press conference before the series, 
player-manager Bill Terry shocked sportswriters by asking, "Is Brooklyn 
still in the league?" Needless to say, the Dodgers won both games, 
handing the Cardinals the pennant. Had Terry not goaded the moribund 
Dodgers, the Gas House Gang would not be part of our vocabulary. The 
Cardinals did not win another pennant until a new cast, led by rookie 
sensation Stan Musial, captured the gonfalon in 1942. 
The rivalry heated in the fities; remember your father telling you about 
Campy, Pee Wee, Jackie, Oisk, the Barber, Leo, and Mandrake the 
Magician? These were glory years for the Dodgers, who won titles in 
1947, '49, '52, '53, '55 and '56. The giants interrupted the string twice, 
most notably •when Bobby Thomson hit his famous home run off Ralph 
Branca in the final play-off game in 1951. 
With the move to California, the rivalry peaked in 1966 but after that, first LA and SF fielded a string of losing teams as the Cincinnati Reds dominated the elder circuit. No Giant fan needs to be reminded of an organization that traded venerable Gaylord Perry for Sam McDowell; George Foster for Frank Duffy; and ultimately lost such stars as Garry Maddox, Bobby Bonds, Gary Mathews, Dave Kingman, ad infinitum, ad nauseum 
This year's race, due primarily to San Francisco's acquisition of Vida Blue in the offseason, has been close since April and injected new blood into this ancient rivalry. Reggie Smith has had a superb campaign, and, if he has a decent September, rates high in MVP consideration; but so does the Giants' rightfielder, Jack Clark, who has 22 homers, 90 RBis, and a .305 batting average. Clark stands six feet one inch and only weighs 170 pounds, but has power to all fields. 
This is a young San Francisco team and few of their players have been exposed to the rigor of a grinding pennant chase. Nevertheless, they have won thirty-six one run games (the major league record is 41). Their rotation of Blue, Ed Halicki, Bob Knepper, and Jim Barr is so good that they should remain in contention until the final week. Perhaps the fans will get lucky and the two teams will need a play-off to decide this year's 1 NL West Division Championship. 

' ~ ' 
and Sparky Lyle came on. Lyle walked Alan Trammell and Rich 
Gossage came on to  pick up  his  
22nd save.  
Ron  LeFlore  of  the  Tigers  

extended his hitting streak to 276 games with a one-out single in the ninth inning. But Gossage got Lou Whitaker to line into a double play to end the game. 
ORIOLES 4, RED SOX 1 
Lee May blasted a leadoff homer in the. seventh and Carlos Lopez singled in the tie-breaking run later in the inning following Boston's third error of the game Tuesday night as the Baltimore Orioles posted a 4-1 victory over the Red Sox. 
The Red Sox have lost five of their last six, while the surging Orioles, still eight games behind first-place Boston in the American League East, have won 14 of their last 17. 
Jim Palmer, seeking to win at least 20 games for the eighth time in nine seasons, upped his record to 18-12 with ninth-inning relief from Don Stanhouse, who picked up his 21st save. 
ASTROS3,REDS2 
A run-scoring double by Jose Cruz and a sacrifice fly by pinch­hitter Bob Watson rallied Houston to a 3-2 victory over Tom Seaver and the Cincinnati Reds Tuesday night. 
Houston went into the ninth inning trailing 2-1 when Terry Puhl led off with a single and scored the tying run on Cruz' double to the left field corner. 
Some tickets left 
All 1978 Notre Dame football games have been sold out, with the exception of the October 21 Air Force game at Colorado Springs and the November 4 contest against Navy in Cleveland. 
A limited amount of tickets for these two games is available, and 
is currently on sale at Gate 10 of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary stu­dents are reminded that current student identification cards must be shown, along with the student ticket, for admission to all home football games, including this Sat­urday's game with Missouri. 
Also, all allotted student season basketball tickets have been sold for the 1978-79 Notre Dame season. 
Speaking Sports 
WSND-AM 640 presents "Speaking of Sports" this evening at 10 p.m. Join Paul Stauder and Lou Severino in an hour-long discussion. Your calls are wei-· corned at 6400 . 

Rich Hunter and his 1978 Irish soccer squad will kick off their second varsity nason this Friday 1t Cartier Field. [Photo courtuy of Dome] 
*Observer 





Sports 


The Big Switches 

Many pro and college coaches pay lip service to the old cliche about 
going after "the best athlete available". But Notre Dame Head Coach 
Dan Devin_e has the track record to back up such a claim. 
When the Irish take the field against Missouri Saturday, no fewer than 
six players who switched positions since starting at Notre Dame will be in 
the starting lineup. The half-dozen: cornerback Dave Waymer, safety 
Jim Browner, defensive ends Jay Case and John Hankerd, offensive 
guard Jim Hautman and flanker Peter Holohan. 
The most versatile of the group appears to be Waymer. After playing 
on both sides of the line of scrimmage as a freshman, he alternated with 
Tom Domin at a starting flanker spot in 1977. Last spring he was shuttled 
back to defense to help fill the void created by the graduation of Luther 
Bradley and Ted Burgmeier. 
In his first Notre Dame game, a nationally televised contest against 
Boston College, Jim Browner led the Irish in rushing. As a sophomore, he 
was moved to strong safety, where he's started ever since. "The toughest 
part about switching positions was having to learn everything all over 
again," remembers Browner. "You have to learn to tackle instead of 
run.'' 
Browner, who has been mentioned as a possible All-America candidate, 
has no regrets about the switch. "I'd rather hit than be hit, and you get to 
be more aggressive on defense." 
The decision to move from fullback to safety was left up to Browner. 
"The decision was mine, and I liked the idea of getting more playing time 
on defense. The only thing I miss about offense is running the ball, 
because that's what it's all about." 
Holohan, thrust into a starting role after knee surgery claimed Tom Domin, was· one of five highly-regarded quarterbacks to enter Notre Dame last fall. ''The coaches mentioned to me that there was an opportunity at flanker," explains Holohan, "and I figured it would help the team, and I'd get a chance to play." 
A quarterback throughout hsi high school career, Holohan now finds 
himself on the opposite end of pass patterns. ''The most difficult thing for 
me has been learning the routes." 
Hankerd saw limited action last year as a backup to middle guard Bob Golic, and he views his switch as a chance for more playing time. A 6-foot-4, 241-pound sophomore, Hankerd certainly possesses the size necessary to play defensive end, and to play it well. 
''Last spring the coaches suggested the switch to me, and this fall they put me there," he says. "It's fine with me, anything so I get a chance to play." 
Hankerd lists the process of learning new techniques as the most difficult part of the transition. "When I started I didn't know a thing about the position, but Coach (Joe) Yonto has helped me a lot." 
Case and Hautman have made less dramatic, although still demanding changes. Case, who contributed heavily at defensive tackle last fall, bas moved to defensive end, where he will team with Hankerd in an attempt to fill the shoes of the Irish Bookends, Ross Browner and Willie Fry. Hautman, an understudy to All-America center Dave Huffman in 1977, slides over to right guard. 
It would be hard to argue with the results of Devine's shuffling. In addition to these six players, Devine initiated the conversion of Ted Burgrnejer from split end to cornerback, where he played a key role in Notre Dame's national championship a year ago. 
RANDOM THOUGHTS WHILE SPECTATING: 

Once again, money talks. Due to ABC-TV's programming schedule, the Notre Dame-Michigan football game has been moved up to 12 noon from the usuall:JO p.m. kickoff time. The earlier start really shouldn't make much difference to the players who spend their Friday nights locked up in Moreau Hall, but already there is grumbling from the student body. It seems that ten or eleven o'clock in the morning is a bit early to get into the proper football mood. The incident seems minor in comparison with last January's basketball game between the Irish and Maryland, played in the wake of that record blizzard. Expect a similar change for the Pitt game.; 
by A880Ciated Press 
The Pittsburgh Pirates combined the four-hit pitching of Jerry Reuss with a five-run third inning to defeat the New York Mets 8-0 Tuesday night and move within a half-game of the idle Philadelphia Phillies for the National League East lead. 
The victory was the lOth straight for the Pirates, who now have won their last 14 games in Three Rivers Stadium. 
Reuss, beset with problems all season, won only his second game against as many losses this season. He didn't allow a runner pa~ second base. 
EXPOS 10, CUBS 8 
Doubles by Warren Cromartie, Gary Carter, and Dave Cash keyed a four-run eighth inning Tuesday and lifted the Montreal Expos to a 
Pennant Races 
10-8 victory over the slumping Chicago Cubs. 
The loss dropped the third-place Cubs five games behind the idle first-place ·Philadelphia Phillies in the National League East and was charged to relief ace Bruce Sutter, 7-7, who was unable to stop the Expos in the eighth. 
Wayne Twitchell, 4-12, was the winner in relief. 
YANKEES 4, TIGERS 2 
Roy White's three-run homer and eight innings of shutout pitching by Dick Tidrow carried the New York Yankees to a 4-2 victory over the Detroit Tigers Tuesday night. 
Tidrow, 7-9, carried a shutout into the ninth but Phil Mankowski's two-run homer knocked him out 




