
Senior art majors at Saint Mary's are preparing for one-person shows of their work some of which will open on Friday, March 3 and run through the month of March. The exhibitions will be held in the Moreau, Hammes, and little Theatre gaUeries and will feature ceramics, photographs, weavings, paintings, and drawings. They will fulfill a degree requirement for thl:' art majors. [photos by Sue Coliton.] 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Friday, February 24, 1978
Vol. XII, No. 90 


Coal strike causes one-day layoffs 
[AP] -One-day layoffs of 10,800 persons were announced yesterday in Indiana, the cruelest cut yet from the nationwide coal strike that state budgj;:t experts said j:Ould cost the state treasury up to $60 million. 
The layoffs include 8,300 workers at General Motors olants in Kokomo and Anderson, repre~enting the first major layoffs in the auto industry nationwide. GM said the furloughs were necessary to meet the 25 percent power curtailments ordered because of dwindling co~l sup­plies. 
Meanwhile, some 300 National Guards­men remained on duty in southwestern Indiana. protecting coal shipments from non-union mines to fuel short utilities. But another 300 guat.:lsmen were being deacti­vated because there has been no significant violence. 
In another development, Rep. John T. Myers (R-Ind.) invited President Carter to visit western Indiana this weekend to see the effects of the coal strike first-hand. Myers said he hoped a personal inspection would spur Carter to action, but White House responded tartly that the president was too busy trying to settle the strike. 
Before the auto and RCA furloughs, an estimated 3.400 workers were on indefinite layoffs because of the power curtailments. That dropped to 2.900 yesterday when 500 employees returned to work at a Mitchell, Ind., plant that makes school bus bodies. 
General Motors' Delco Electronics plant in Kokomo announced it will lay off 6,000 of its 8,600 hourly workers for one day today, and another Delco plant in Ander­son said it will furlough 2,300 of its 12,500 employees on Monday. 
The Anderson plant had already fur· laughed 500 workers for two days -last Friday and Saturday -and the Kokomo plant said that if the coal situation doesn't improve, it may repeat its layoffs next Friday. 
The Delco plants manufacture electrical components for General Motors' 25 auto assembly plants across the country. 
Donald J. Atwood, general manager of the Kokomo plant, said priorities have been set to keep items most crucial to assembly lines flowing as long as possible, and GM spokesman James Crellin in Detroit added: "We don't see any immediate impact on overall production as a result of these curtailments." 
An RCA plant at Marion, which makes television picture tubes, said 2,500 of its 2,800 employees also will be laid off for one day Monday to meet the power curtail­ments. 
Although the layoffs were temporary and not likely to affect the state's unemploy­ment rate, officials feared a ripple effect on other businesses in those communities. 
Myers, whose district includes the northern part of Indiana coalfields, coupled his letter to Carter with strong criticism of the president's delay in intervening to reopen the mines. 
[continued on page 8] 
Additional power cutbacks go into effect today at SMC 
by Jean Powley . St. Mary's Editor 
Mandatory SO percent cutbacks in electric power to all Michiana schools went into effect at midnight last night according to the an­nouncement made Wednesday night by Indiana and Michigan Electric Company (I & M). As a result, additional power cutbacks have been made at St. Mary's which are effective today. 
According to SMC President John 
M. Duggan, a 40 percent reduction has already been achieved. So, only another 10 percent is needed. 
To achieve the additional reduc­tion, several steps have been taken. The swimming pool will be closed indefinitely. Elevators may now only be used by handicapped individuals. Heating in the McCan­dless Hall Lounge area will be turned off except between the hours of 7 and 10 p.m. Fan heating in the Regina classroom area will only be operating between 7 and 10 
a.m. and 2 and 4 p.m. daily. Therefore, all first floor Regina residents will be moved elsewhere for the duration of the crisis. The heating fans in Regina bathrooms will also now only be operating between 7 and 10 a.m. and 5 and 9 
p.m. daily. 
Activities and operating hours in the computer center will also be reduced. Non-essential work will be delayed or deferred. 
Students are asked to reduce electrical use whenever possible. refrigerators should be unplugged. Lights should be turned off when leaving an area. The use of hair blowers and curling irons should be kept to a minimum. Lights should be turned off after midnight, if possible, and water use should be reduced because electric motors pump the water from campus wells. 
According to a letter Duggan is sending to all members of the SMC community today, when I&M's coal supply reaches the 30-day level. Saint Mary's will be forced to close. The earliest this could happen would be March 6. 
"If the conservation effort man­dated after Feb. 24 are effective and if some additional supplies of coal are secured, it is possible that the closing date will be extended. The best information available to us indicates that the campus will be closed sometime prior to the sche­duled spring vacation. Spring break will begin at the time school is closed. later information will be 
supplied  to  you  as  the  situation  
becomes  cleared,"  the  letter  
stated.  



.L Friday, February 24, 1978
the
2 

~~ 
;._~ _; 
~--....<...__;;

WEATHER 
.. .. ... 
Increasing cloudiness today with a 30 percent chance of snow flurries towards evening and highs around 30. Turning colder tonight with a 30 percent chance of snow flurries. Lows around ten. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs in the mid 20s. The extended outlook calls for fair and cold Sunday and Monday with a chance for ligh~ snow Tuesday. Lows Sunday and Monday 5 to 10 and in the teens Tuesday. 
.__On Campus Today_ ______. 
friday 
12:15 
pm 

12:15 
pm 3 pm 3:30pm 


5:15pm 7 pm 7, 9, & 
11 pm 7:30pm 8 pm 9pm 
8 am 8 pm 8 pm 9 pm 9 pm 
1 pm I 4 pm 3 & 8 pm
•• ; 
7:15pm 8pm 
9 pm 10 pm 
*The Observer 
Sunday Services at Sacred Heart Church 
Executive Women's Night Night Editor: Katie "Look, Ma,l'm a night editor" Kerwin 
5:15pm Saturday Vigil Rev. Robert Gr~ffin, C.S.C. 
Asst. Night Editor: Kathy 
9:30 am Sunday
"Very Executive" Mills, Tim 
10:45 am
"Token Male" Sullivan 
12:15 pm
Layout Staff: Donna Drelick, Anne Elliott, Anne Griffin, Beth Jone, Marti "Chief" Hogan, Martha "The Man­
7:15pm Vespers
ager" Fanning, Ann Titus, Steve "Peon" Odland, Tom "Serf" Behney, Bob "Lack­
ey" Bnnk, Rosemary Mrlls Cheerleaders: Reed King, tiryan Gruley, Tony Pace 
A Touch of the Poet
Typists: Stacy Weaver, Ther­esa Richeson, Mark "House­
Eugene O'Neill's 

wife" Rust, Mardi Nevin £.M.T.: Rich "Secretary" 
search for his: roots. 
Clarizio, Karen Chiames 
Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4 at 8 
~Y Editor: Tom Nilson 
SMC
Copy Reader: Diane Wilson, Mike "Slave Labor" Lewis 
TH [AT R E All seats $2.50 Phone: 
Ad layout: John P. "Steno 
$2 std-fac-staff 284-4176
Pool" O'Connell, G. "The 
O'Laughlin Aud. 
1 ~aid" Trzupek~tographer: Sue Coliton ) 
I 
mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
biology travel. series, "soviet central .asia: the mountains," theodore crovello, 278 galvm. art talk film series, agnes martin, art gallery, 
sponsored by nd art dept. 
lecture, "Policies towards trans-nationals," paul streett>n, 242 o'shag, sponsord by the econ dept. mass and supper, bulla shed. bible study, sponsored by campus crusade for christ, 
howard hall chapel. 
film, "pmk panther strikes again", sponsored by frosh class, eng. aud. $1. art exhibition, featuring rick brunner and billy 
hassell, isis student art gallery. 
nd/smc theatre, "a touch of the poet," o'laughlin aud. $2 SO naz.z, featuring gene barbanera and jamie goodrich, 
refreshments available, basement of Iafortune. 
saturday exam, graduate record exam, eng. aud. nd/smc theatre, "a touch of the poet," o'laughlin 
aud., $2.50. 
dinner, fr. hesburgh's dinner for junior parents weekend, stepan center. concert, albert collms, sponsored by cultural arts 
commission, washington hall. 
nazz, featuring rich stevenson and dan berenato, basement of Iafortune. sunday 
liturgical music workshop, featuring jeff noonan, regina chapel, sponsored by smc campus ministry. 
basketball, nd vs. no. 1 ranked marquette, ace. asian film festival, sponsored by committee on asian studies & modern languages, eng. aud. 
meeting, cila, lib. aud. & lounge. 
recital, senior piano recital, cheryl pesdan, spon­sored by smc dept. of music, little theatre. meeting, an tostal committee, everyone invited to 
attend, 1st floor of Iafortune. meeting, student union florida guide, student union social commission office. 
Rev. John Cimino, 0. Praem. Rev. Robert A. Krieg, C.S.C. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Homilist: Rev. John J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C 
Poll indicates country favors inv(j•cation of Taft-Hartley Act 
NEW YORK [AP] •• Almost two-thirds of the American people think Presidt:nt Carter should in­voke the Taft-Hartley Act to try to get the nation's coal miners back to work, at least for an 80 day cooling-off period, an Associated Press NBC News poll indicates. 
Slightly molt'e than a quarter of those interviewed Tuesday and Wednesday said Carter should not seek the back-to-work order. 
Invoking the little used law is one of the options. that Carter has been considering in an effort to end the 80 day walkout by the 160,000 striking members of the United Mine Workers union. 
He said yesterday that he would not intervene immediately and still hoped a negotiated settlement can be reached. He said his decision about what to do ''de­pends on developments today." 
The back -to-work thrust of the Taft-Hartley Act was described briefly to each of the 1,600 adults interviewed by telephone. They were then asked if they thought Carter should invoke the act. 
Sixty-five percent said Carter should order the miners back to work, while 28 percent opposed it. Seven percent were undecided. 
Support for invocation of the law was broad, cutting across party, income, education, racial and re­gional lines. 
There were no significant differ­ences between Republicans, Demo­crats and independents on Taft­Hartley, nor between those des­cribing themselves as liberal, mod­erate and conservative. 
More than 60 percent of the residents of each of the major regions of the country were in favor of invoking the act. 
Only slightly more support for the act was found among those with higher incomes and those with more education. 
Under the Taft-Hartley Act, Car­ter can set up a fact-finding panel to determine if the strike consti-
Leavy to present studl' seminar 
Dr. Richard Leavy, Department of Psychology, will present a study seminar on "How to Take Tests," this Monday from 6 to 7 p.m. in Regina auditorium. Leavy's pri­mary topic will be test anxiety. 
The Observ•er Is published Mon. day through F'rlday except during exam and vac:.atlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Nlltre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purch11sed for no per year cs 1 o per setmesterl from The Observer, P.'o. Box Q, Notr. Dame, lndla~ta 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46554<. 
The Observer Is a member of the Anoclatecl Prell. All r.pro. dudlon rights ar. reserved. 
tutes a national emergency. If the 
board finds there is a national 
emergency, Carter can order the 
Justice Department to seek an 
injunction from a U.S. District 
Court ordering the miners back to 
work for an 80 day, cooling-off 
period. ' The idea behind the "cooling­
off'' period is to get striking union 
members back to work while man­
agement and labor negotiators 
continue to try to reach a settle­
ment. 
But invocation of the act might not 
succeed in reopening the mines. 
It didn'lt work for several days in 
1946 when President Harry Tru­
man obtained an injunction order­
ing striking miners back into the 
mines. The miners, led by John L. 
Lewis, ignored the injunction until 
massive fines were levied against 
Lewis and the union. 
Union and State officials close to 
the strike situation have warned of 
possible violence in the minefields 




~ei BEAT 

_J\r._RQUETT 
PEP RALLY 
7:00 PM SAT ACC PIT 

BE THERE!! 

NOTICE GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE OFFICE ENGINEERS, INC. 

MIDWEST BLU S i PRESENTS I 
I 1 

A SPECIAL BLUES SHOW 
WITH i 
I 
1 ALBERT COLLINS 

I AND THEI JIMMY JOHNSON I BLUES BAND




L-------+--­
WASHINGTON SAT FEB 25th 
HALL  1  at 9 pm  
II  PRICE $2  II  
I  I  

ALL TIX SOLD AT DOOR 
(ND -SMC ID REQUIRED)
I I. I
. -.
'Albert Collins ••• the prem1ereblues uitarist on the We~t Coast'
--·-­
I -. 
if the act is invoked. 
Several other options besides 
Taft-Hartley were also being con­
sidered by Carter. 
He could also--with congressional approval--order a federal takeover of mines. Or Congress could 9ive him the power to order the miners back to work while an arbitration . panel writes a new contract, though the union has rejected binding 
arbitration. 
Carter, through Labor Secretary 
F. Ray Marshall, could continue to mediate the negotiations, or the president could try "jaw-boning" --bringing pressure through public statements. 
As with any sample survey, the results of the AP NBC News polls could differ from the results of interviews with all Americans be­cause of chance variations in the sample. For polls with 1,600 inter­views, the results should vary no more than three percent either way simply because of sample errors. 
' " 
----~-------~ 
Friday, February 24, 1978 
the observer 
3 


Negotiation hppes still alive 
Prof. james Bellis of the sociology arid anthropology department was one of the participants in last night's symposium on "Aspects of African Culture: Tradition and Change" in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 

by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
uition, board, phone costs rise next year at SMC 
students will be 
a total of $4,980 to attend 
next year. The an­
came this week fol­
weekend's Board of Regents meeting during which a $300 increase in tuition, a $50 increase in board and a $52 telephone service fee were approv­ed. 
Also, the Regents, at the recom­mendation of the finance and budget committees, approved the first draft of the college's budget as well as an average faculty salary increase of 7.5 percent. They also ~ agreed to pay out the balan~e remaining on the Angela Athletic Facility from funded depreciation of the coJlege, so that the develop­ment office may now concentrate on raising funds for a new library and a science building extension. 
In order to augment such fund-raising activities, the develop­ment committee recommended or­ganizing a Sister Madeleva Society for significant donors. The creation of a Saint Mary's College Business Associates to be made up of businesses who contribute sub­stantially and regularly from the Michiana area was also recom­mended. 
In other action honorary degrees for Ruth Clusen, chairman of the League of Women Voters; Fr. Walter J Burghardt, S.J., theolo­gian and author; and Dr. Jaroslav Pelikan, former member of the Board of Regents and retiring Dean of the Graduate School at Yale University were also approved. 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -President Carter kept alive hopes for a negotiated settlement to the coal strike yesterday as the 80-day-old dispute brought the first major layoffs in the auto industry. 
The president said he has decid­ed against immediate government intervention in hopes of getting the striking United Mine Workers (UMW) and coal industry officials back to the bargaining table. 
"We're still trying to get the parties to negotiate with each other," he told a reporter at swearing-in ceremonies for the new FBI director. 
The president met earlier with bipartisan congressional leaders and was to confer later with the governors of West Virginia, Penn­sylvania and Kentucky -states hard hit by the bitter walkout. 
Administration officials said the president told the lawmakers there was still a last chance for a negotiated agreement and that he could not wait past the weekend to act. The officials said Carter stressed there was a need to keep options open for a few days and that congressional support was needed to let industry and union know that backing exists for seizing the mines or invoking the back-to­work orders of the Taft-Hartley Act. 
Senate Minority Leader Howard 
H. Baker Jr., who was among those meeting with Carter, said it could be late April or May before Congress could act on special legislation. By then, he said, there could be 90 percent power cutbacks in some areas and millions of people out of work. 
Although Carter still hoped for a resumption of negotiations, the two sides appeared deadlocked. The industry had said Wednesday it could not accept the union's propo­sal calling for a settlement nearly identical to one reached earlier with a major independent produ­cer, Pittsburg & Midway Coal Mining Co. The union declared it could accept nothing less. 
Labor Secretary Ray Marshall, 
WITH THIS COUPON 
who had Qeen trying for ten days to negotiate a settlement, announced that the industry ''declined to respond" to both the union's offer and his invitation to join in face-to­face negotiations with the UMW. Coal operators said further talks "hardly seemed fruitful" in view of the union's bargaining position. 
With both sides seeming inflex­ible in their negotiating positions, the administration appeared to be pushing for a break up of national coal bargaining, possibly coupled with direct intervention. 
Should the government declare a bargaining impasse, each of the 130 member companies of the Bituminous Coal Operators Associ­ation (BCOA) would be free to negotiate individual contracts with the UMW. Some industry sources have hinted that some companies would be willing to make such a move. 
Power cutbacks resulting from the coal strike were blamed for one-day layoffs of 8,300 hourly workers at General Motors' Delco Electronics plant in Kokomo, Ind., and at GM's Delco-Remy plant at Muncie, Ind. Donald Atwood, manager of the Kokomo plant, said 
another one-day layoff may be 
necessary March 3 if the coal 
shortage continues. 
Elsewhere. more power cutbacks were expected in Indiana, Ohio. ~Tennessee, Maryland and Virginia. Further financial hardships are in store for some 81.600 benefici­aries of the UMW's retirement fund and 7,100 persons receiving union survivors' benefits. The UMW Health and Retirement Funds announced it will not pay out benefits during March because of cash shortages triggered by the 
strike. 
The major differences between the union and industry focus on disciplinary action against wildcat strikers, guarantee of pension and health benefits, royalties to the union for non-UMW coal that is processed through union-organized mines and industry-proposed deductibles for previously free health care. 
They basically are in agreement on a wage package that would boost pay and benefits 37 percent over three years. Miners currently average $7.80 an hour. 

. Junior Parent's weekend begins today with registration at 2 p.m. m LaFortune. The schedule fortheentire weekend is: 
FRIDAY, February 24, 1978 
2:00 p.m. Registration -LaFortune Student Center until 8:00 
p.m. ­8:00p.m. Cocktail Party -Monogram Room and Main Concourse of the ACC ­.SATURDAY, February 25, 1978 9:00a.m. Registration -LaFortune Student Center until 1 :00 
p.m. 9:00a.m. Collegiate Workshops -Locations to be announced 
6:30p.m. Junior Class Mass-Sacred Heart Church 
8 p.m. President's Dinner -Stepan Center SUNDAY, February 26, 1978 Closing Breakfast -Stepan Center
8:30a.m. (all times are subject to change) 
Limit: one coupon per person. 
OFFER GOOD THRU MARCH 4, 1978  
5105-­ 
2051 Niles Ave. St. Joseph Mich.  1013 West McKinley Mishawaka, Ind.  Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. {open February 20)  


THE HUDDLE 
ANNOUNCES: 

THE STEAK SANDWICH 
-COMING MONDAY FEB 27 
~~ 
~ STEAK SANDWICH .88 FRENCH FRIES .40 20 OZ. COKE .40 
~~~ 

$1.68 

BIG BARGAIN PRiCE 
1.43 

Pre-St. Patrick's Day Party 
& Gong Show at 




Giuseppe's 
Sat., Feb. 25th 9pm.-2am. $2.00 Plenty of Beer! 
Sponsored by SMC Social Commission 
~------------~-............----....-....~--J
-~·~~~·~·-~·~~¥~····~ J. 
. 
Friday, February 24, 1978
the observer 


Dutch beetles destroy J'rish elms 



by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 
If sustained losses from the 
Dutch elm disease continue at the 
present rate, the Notre Dame 
campus will have no American 
elms remaining in 25 years, accord­
ing to Edward Lyon, director of 
maintenance. · 
Dutch elm disease is spread by a beetle, originally from the Nether­lands, which carries a tree-killing fungus. The beetles first infest the upper tree branches from which the poison spreads to infect the entire tree. The sole alternative for an infected tree is to cut away the diseased branches, otherwise the beetles live long enough to lay eggs and move on to neighboring 
Lopata to lecture on aging 
The third lecture of this year's Forum on Aging will be given by Dr Helena Z. Lopata this Monday at 
4:30 p.m. in the Haggar Hall Auditorium. 
Lopata has taught at Roosevelt University and Loyola University where she is currently Professor and Director of the Center for the Comparative Study of Social Roles. She was named faculty member of the year at Loyola in '1975. 
She is the author of many publications, including Occupation: 
Housewife, Widow In an American City, "Polish American Family Life," and "Loneliness in Widow­hood." 
The Forum on Aging Lectures are funded and sponsored by the Mental Health Outreach Program and the Applied Program in Geron­tological Education, Research and Services at Notre Dame. The public is invited to all lectures of the series. 

Asian Studies to sponsor films 
Beginning this Sunday, the Committee on Asian Studies will sponsor a series of four films produced in several different Asian countries. These prize-winning· films offer the western audience a chance to explore Asian culture and society through artistic works. 
All showings will be in the Engineering Auditorium. Sunday showings will be at 3 and 8 p.m., and those on Thursday at 7 and 9 
p.m. Admission is free and all are welcome. 
The schedule of films is as follows: ·Sunday. Feb. 26 -Heroes of the Eastern Skies. (Rep. of China, 1975) .sunday, Mar. 5 -The Opium Warlords. (Thailand, 1976) ·Sunday. Mar. 12 · Fires on the Plain. (Japan. 1961) ·Thursday. Mar. 16 -Kaldan, (Japan, 1965) 
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS: TAKE OUT INSURANCE NOW 
How about an 1nsurance" policy that your <eK!I'lCe or engineering degree will really b.. used> It would b.. nice. Espe clally considering the work you put In to such a degee
n... Aw Force will use your talents We have openings lor young men and """""" ma)Oring In selected science and ~acaderruc fields . \Ike Aeroniuhcal, Aerospace, General and EW<-tncal Engineering, Mathemalles, PhysiCS and Computer Technology, IITld many more. 
One woy to get tnto these JObs Is ttvo.q, 116 Frn.:>" ROTC Our AFROTC o;choLv•htp con help you hnanctally so you tan COfiCentrote on getting your d"9>'"" AFROTC Is o great oppor tunlly to help your sell through college, and the Aw Force is a great opportunity to really use wMt you learn 
Look tnto the Aw Fore• ROTC pro· !J'ilfTlM !MI' ~· It's g:xxllllSll'iOflQ1 
CONTACT CAPT. DAVIS AT: 283-6634 
A.lR FORC 
ROTC 
::Ootewcr, to a grttOt woy of l1fe. 
J 
..... 
trees. 
This "domino effect" had vir­tually eliminated American elms in the area. "South Bend residents don't cut down branches when they become infected," Fr. Jerome Wilson, executive director of the physical plant, noted, adding, "If the diseased branches stay, it gives the beetles the chance to roam all over the campus." 
In the 1950's, there were 1,600 elms in the vicinity of Holy Cross and Columba Halls. Currently, less than 700 remain. According to Wilson, most losses occur in the summer because the beetles hiber­nate during the colder months. 
"It's considered good if you limit your losses to two percent a year. Previously, we were below that rate, but in the last few years, we've been at that figure or over," he stated. 
Lyon uses a "prevention and sanitation" program to control the disease. Groundskeepers inject systemic chemicals into the tree, and the rising sap carries the chemicals through the branches. This process has certain disadvan­tages because it must be done at the same time the beetle larvae hatch, and it is only effective in single trees. "This prevention is designed not to cure the disease, but to try to kill the beetles," Lyon explained. 
''The only thing we can do for infected trees is concentrate on instant removal of the dead branch­es. We burn or bury these immediately to keep the beetles from spreading," he added. 
Notre Dame exercised the most 
Bar-B-Que 
LEE'S 
Restaurant & 
& BEER Lounge 


HAPPY HOUR 
4-7 
sponsored by the Indy & Pitt Clubs 
Pitchers $1.25 &$1.50 
1132 S. Bend Ave 
4 -3 am Daily Phone 
Closed Sun. 289-0639 
and Mon. 
successful Dutch elm disease con­trol in the country until DDT was banned four years ago, Lyon ~stated. Substitute sprays have been less effective, especiallysince they depreciate in strength from 
the moment of application. 
While Lyon admits it would be 
"presumptious" to state that 
DDT's dangers had not been 
proved to hi~ satisfaction, he claims 
that his workers handled the chem­
cal for years and experienced no 
harmful side-effects. 
"I've always felt that the envi­
ronmentalists went a little over­
board with the horror story of 
chemicals riddling the atmosphere. 
Trees are nature's primary agents 
for converting carbon dioxide into 
oxygen and purifying the atmos­
phere to sustain life, and, without 
the DDT, we're losing them," he 
stressed. 
University administrators are 
"very conce~ned" about the rising 
annual elm losses and have given 
"Full financial suppQr_C to, 
disease-curbing efforts, Lyon 
stated, adding, "Our yearly budget 
just to cover the removal of dead 
elms is $3,500." 
Both Lyon and Wilson expressed 
hope that current research will 
soon produce a cure for the 
disease. The Department of Agri­
culture is conducting experiments, 
in addition to Michigan State, the 
University of Illinois, and Purdue 
University. 
"We've already replanted -over 
1,000 trees to replace the elms, but 
we won't be ready to plant elms 
again until they find a cure for this 
beetle," Wilson emphasized. 

These elms are two of the many elm trees on campus which have been hit by Dutch elm disease. The University is currently using a "prevention and sanitation" program to control the disease. [Photo by Sue Coliton]. 
Friday, February 24, 1978 the observer 

Donovan proposes legal services 
by Caroline Moore 
A proposal for prepaid legal service for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students was among topics discussed at the SMC Board of Governance meeting last night. 
The plan was outlined by Senior Lisa Donovan, who, along with Terry Johnson, a JD-MBA stu­dent, has been developing this idea for two years. This proposal includes the hiring of a full-time attorney who would be able to both advise students and go into court as their legal represent­ative. 
The legal service currently avail­able to students is the University Referral Division of the Legal Aid and Defender Association at the Notre Dame Law School. According to Donovan, this service is heavily burdened with between 60-90 cases per semester. The prepaid legal service would be beyond the pre­sent scope of the University Refer­
a) Division. 
Donovan stated that the legal service would be a •'three faceted program" which would include attorney availability for advice and legal consultation, educational an8 preventative programs, and an introduction for students into the legal and judicial process to aid them after leaving college. 
Surveys were presented to a sample of students on both cam­puses last semester. The over­whelming response was in favor of this idea, Donovan said. When asked about their willingness to support the program financially, the average sum students were willing to pay was over $4.50 per year. According to Donovan if each student at both schools contributed this amount it would cover the expense of the attorney, the clerical work and all necessary supplies. 
Mary Rukavina, student body president, pointed out that the Board of Governance is a non­voting body and that Donovan should present this proposal to the Student Assembly. The Student Assembly could then decide if they would give official student body support to the idea. 
Suggestions for strengthening support for the plan included polling parent reaction and making the fee optional for students. Many members pointed out that it is very hard to get additional fees added to tuition bills. 
Diane Smits, judicial commis­sioner, summed up the Board's feelings by saying, "it is essential­ly a good idea and both Johnson and Donovan should be commend­ed for all their hard work, but I'm worried about the funding of the proposal." 
In other business Rukavina an­nounced again that weekend check­cashing will begin Saturday. There is a $5.00 limit with a 10 cents service charge. Students will be able to cash checks in the lower lobby of the dining hall on the LeMans side on Saturday from 4:30-6:00 and Sunday from 11:30­1:00. 
The Little Sisters Weekend has been set for April 8-9, and will be 
Webster swears in as new director 
WASHINGTON [AP] -William 
H. Webster, a federal judge for the last seven years, took over direc­tion of the FBI yesterday with a promise to make his tenure a symbol of integrity and the agency a standard for law enforcement. 
"Let there be no doubt about it, the FBI exists to uphold the law," said Webster. "We will do the work the American· people expect of us in a way the Constitution demands of us, so help us God." 
In a 20-minute swearing-in cer­emony held for the first time in the FBI building named for J. Edgar Hoover, Webster, 53, took the oath of office from Chief Justice Warren Burger and was given praise and 
r·----------------~~~----­
~ 'Pinocchios 
Pizza 
s1 °0 off 
any large Pizza 
with this coupon 
Good for deliveri~:ts also! 
Ei PIRES 3/3/78 
MILLER LITE NITE-this Mon, Tues, and Wed. $1.50 per pitcher 
Pizza & Play Dine & Drink 
Pool tables Full service
Pinball Machines Video games 
,georgetown shop~ing plaza 277-4522 I emmons road south bend 
,L••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-J 

and special guest STARZ 
monday feb 27 7:30 pm notre dame a.c.c. 
All seats reserved: $7.00 Roor Festival Style $7.00 Reserved Chair Style $6.00 Reserved Bleacher On sale at Student Ticket office, ACC 
·---------· -----~-...-... -..--~ .. --·-·--~-... 
good wishes by President Carter, the man who picked him for the job. 
Attorney General Griffin B. Bell hand~d Webster a standard gold FBI badge with the number "3" on it. Bell, who had a moment's difficulty locating the badge ·of a lectern on the stage of the FBI auditorium, told Webster, "It's good I found it. Otherwise you wouldn't be able to get into or out of the building." 
The shield bears a replica of an American eagle and a blindfolded 

'21-Ciub' offers bar entry cards 
Saint Mary's "21-Ciub" bar cards will be on sale for $2 to all ND-SMC students over 21, faculty, administration, staff and alumni in the lobby of LeMans Hall from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. today, at the door of the bar during Happy Hour today from 3:30 to 5 and tomorrow night at the bar from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. 

Presents 
woman holding the scales of jus­tice, the same as badges carried by all FBI agents and officials. 
"My pledge to all of you is that ten years from now this badge will be just as bright and shiny as it is today," said Webster. 
The former judge has committed himself to a ten-year term that would extend beyond Carter's ten­ure in office even if the president is re-elected in 1980. 
The president said the FBI "is an agency which sets the standard for integrity, competence, dedica­tion, professionalism." He said that Webster was as qualified as any man in the nation to do the job which he said was one of the most difficult in America. 
Injecting a humorous note, Car­ter noted that Webster's selection was free of political partisanship. "He's a Republican, which proves his fallibility," the president said. "So he should feel completely at home with us." 
Carter showered praise on Web­ster's predecessor, Clarence M. Kelley, who retired last week and whom Carter had criticized during 

~ 
sponsored by the four class presi dents.Among the tentative activi­ties planned are an Anything Goes game show, a quiz show, a skating party and a movie. As the details become more definite students will receive a letter containing further information. 
A general meeting for all Student Assembly and Board of Gover­nance members is scheduled for February 28 at 8:00. A decision concerning the Saint Mary's con­tribution to An Tostal will be made along with a review of the year's activities. 
FOR FURlHER INFORMATION CONTACT: MIKE CORBIN 237-4000 
plet1.51li'lt alkr?!al-i{e: '\) ~ I• SPiRit!>~ ~ ! ~OJ,~ I~atl\ "rr&ftarr. frido~Grmwbr)S-5:30 I ~v utTJUI1tl.• s1fini1al·9;,'e·.lam :. : I ~~er~ E/c diniM/rl II ·~ ! : .I ~-9t rommuni±a (w/r.D) wdedlle i ...............................................................  

his presidential campaign. 
Carter described Kelley as a man of "absolute integrity at a time when it was badly needed" and a!' someone who had done "a superb job." He added: "My deep personal thanks to you for you: 

tremendous contribution." For the past few weeks, Webster had been completing legal opinions 
1
for the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis where he has sat since 1973. A Republican, he was appointed a federal judge by 
I
former President Richard M. Nixon 
in 1971 after practicing as a private I I 
attorney for 17 years. 
His selection as FBI chief culmi­
nated a year-long search by the 
Carter administration. The presi­
dent's first choice, federal Judge 
Frank M. Johnson, was forced to 
withdraw because of poor health. 
Collins to present library recital 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will present Richard Collins, piano, in a recital of early twentieth century music, at 8:15 p.m. Wed­nesday in the Memorial Library 
Auditorium. The recital is open to the public without charge. 
Collins, artist in residence at Brenau College in Georgia, is a Juilliard trained pianist who re­ceived his doctorate in performance from the Uninversity of Michigan. As the recipient of a Fullbright grant he studied piano with Pietro Scarpini in Florence, Italy. 
The program comprises four works written around 1910, open­ing with the Berg Sonata (1908) op. 1 Schoenberg's "Three Pieces" (1910) op.ll will follow. 
The program will continue with the Busoni "Sonatina no. 2" (1912), and conclude with Charles Ives' "First Sonata" (1910). 

the observer Friday, February 24, 1978 
Boisterous Bars in Michiana 
.In recognition of the dubious and delinquent charms of subsistent inebreity, a gift of gaiety known only to those born within a can of worms, or of promiscuous parents whose means of foreplay was a constant barage of tickling torment, I must deny the supposition that the consumption of alcohol in public places should in any manner be conceived, contrived, or con­veyed to or by anyone as a method of slander or libel of a person's image or good standing. In fact, it is the noble man who knows how to drink and boast, who savours the fine flavour of a good Tennessee whiskey or a delicate Bordeaux wine or a feisty German beer, who can support his mind's meanderings with dist:nguished contentment. Only he will recognize the stupified state as an intro­duction to the lickerousness of the expan­sive mind. 
Noble men and women that we may be, it may not always be to our good fortune, to feast and frolick with mousy musketeers, who've lost or not yet gained the sense of quaint distortion, the discrete and subtle distraction of our straight and narrow paths, which manipulate us into thinking that we have some mysterious and preten­tious function as we live, as if we were obliged to take it all in seriously. Happy be the man who can create. perform, conquer, r~ap, and prosper, and then forget. Only by stepping aside, disregarding pride and paranoic fear of the critical judgment of others. can we understand and truthfully appreciate our own achievements and accomplishments. 
It would also be to our advantage to carefully scrutinize the habits and peculiar­ities of those extraneous drinking com­panions who frequent the same and similar establishments that we care to affair ourselves with. It is possible, as it turns out. that one or some of these mashed marauders would find it amusing to use other persons as spitoons or sparring partners or even a projectorary device to extract their own secret desires for self-abuse. Being doused with beer is one thing, being poked in the eye with a sharp stick is still another. Faustian decadence is tolerable, and even cute, at times. But one must be careful of Rod Serling rejects and escapees from Balde Mountain. 
Selecting our cozy. quaint or boisterous bosom for an afternoon or evening of conversation and congregation is an impor­tant step in assembling the proper atmos­phere and mood. It is here that I wish to convey the purpose of this methodological mixture of random notes: to portray a short. distinct picture of the possibilities of place, if one should indeed wish to set forth upon the wayward promenade of potent potions in the Indiana area. (It is here that I must also reveal the source of my 
Midwest Blues is back in town! No, not 
the full blast of our two day festival, but the 
sharp crack of a one-night, single band 
show. If you have been to Midwest Blues. 
you know what I'm talkin' about. If you 
wanted to hear the blues last November. 
but missed the shows. here's your chance. 
The Cultural Arts Commission proudly presents a special night of blues with Albert 'Blues' Collins, backed by the Jimmy Johnsof! Blues Band, this Saturday at q pm in Washinton Hall. Never heard of Albert Collins? That's okay, because Albert wants to be heard. and ought to be heard. 
Albert Collins is a powerful. hard-drivin' blues guitarist from the Los Angeles area. His appearance at Notre Dame tomorrow night marks his first show in Indiana, and his first concert in many years in the Midwest. Albert King -the "King of the Blues" -considers Collins to be his favorite guitarist. 
Fame and recognition have eluded 'Blues' Collins because early on he chose to live and work in his hometown Houston, Texas. though cool instrumental numbers like "Frosty" and "Sno-Cone" spread the news about Albert's abilities, it was not until he moved to the West coast in 1969 that recognition came to this contempor­ary, super-charged blues artist. 
His instrumental skills are inescapable, for his singing and especially his guitar work are saturated with intense power, energy, and innovation. While Albert's various influences of BB King, T-Bone 



I ·1 
\~ 
The bars of Michiana always attract crowds of ND-SMC students. 
prejudices:  I  am  a  male  caucasian  of  
Danish  descent,  heterosex ual,  with  no  
political bias.)  

A nice place to get schlossed before afternoon classes, is the University Cllllb, across from the Morris Inn. This establishment is open to the faculty of Notre Dame and their guests. 
The Senior Bar, the other drinking hole on campus, offers 'more than one way of saving you money', other than not going at all, with frequent specials and 'beer rental plans'. et al. One will not encounter too many derelicts here, because you've seen them all before, walking around campus or staring at you during classes. It is a perfect place for idyllic love affairs from afar, of people that always wanted to meet, but were never introduced, and a good place for being really friendly with your friends of the opposite sex after a night of a half dozen or more 8 oz. beers. This tavern is a club, is occasionally open on Sundays, and open to seniors of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. 
St. Mary's now claims a "21-Ciub" as well. in the basement of the dining hall. Grand Opening of the bar is this evening, with a 'Beach Boys' happy hour on Friday and weekend specials. 
The Morris Inn, on the Notre Dame campus, and Harlan Ellison's "prison" during his stay here, has a cocktail lounge ideal for entertaining parents, rich uncles, or stuffy beaus and mistresses. It can also be useful as an ideal location where jobless seniors can loiter and mingle with influen-
The Blues are Back! 
Walker, and Lightnin' Hopkins arc obvious 
his style of gui.tar shows a distinctly original musical conception. Though indebted to BB King. his music becomes a wholly independent and creative approach to blues guitar that is pure Albert Collins. 
Collins is extremely popular on the West 
' .. AND Pit IN THt Ff?!JVT OfFICE OffER MR. OUI<E OU~ WARM£57 WELCOME 
~ 
j TO 7H£ RtDSk!NS OR­
i GANIZATION!".. OKAY, 
: WE'LL 771.KE QUESTIONS 
IRi 
• "'-·NOW.. 
"' 
~ 
~·~
*Observer 



Features 
Coast. recently performing in numerous clubs and festivals in Washington. Oregon, and California. He comes to Notre Dame hot from a tour of Europe. His appearance at Washingtor. Hall tomorrow night should give Midwest Blues fans a full taste of albert Collins. the strongly expressive and 
Doonesbur~ 
by garry trudeau 
BE:5f{}£S MYR£{1}RIJ IN /l[}MINISTM­TION, I BI<!N6 TO MY JOB liN!/WE­SOME EXPE!WS£ IN SPORJS MEfJI­C!N£. ITWIU BEMYDf/TY 70S££ 7HAT EAC){ AND EVERY MANISSAFE­
LY W!R£0 BEFOR& HE GOES OUTON 711/fT/JALJ_ / ._-•. 
F/£1-0/ """*"~~ 
tial alumni and board members. Proper dress required. 
Posing no great threat to modern civilization, lay a cluster of distinctfully decadent developments nestled in a three block area south ofthe campus-six taverns competing for liquid money, sometimes at competitive prices. Nickle's is reminiscent of a sea-side shanty in Massachusettes without the rustic New England flavour or charm, nor the sea. Memories of Nickies are fading; recent alumni return searching for the images their minds can only create ­it's been several years since the tavern reached its last popularity peak. But the cycle will return one day. A Nickie burger and beer is a classic tradition, in our popular sense of the word. 
Louie makes good pizza, sandwiches and pizza bread. You can still get a large beer here, and on Monday through Thursday, at reasonably cheap prices. Once the common haunting grounds for underclass­men six days a week, a series of police and ABC raids dampened the capricious spirit of Louie's. The atmosphere today is· calmer, but still nice. 
The Commons, formerly Cliff's Tavern, and Lee's Barbeque, both situated east of Eddy, are somewhat hindered by fears and prejudices associated with the neighbor­hood to the east of the South Bend Avenue intersection of Eddy. In both places, however. these fears are unfounded and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are welcomed. Off-campus students invariably discover Lee's as a great place for spicy dinner, especially on Tuesday nights when 
by leo c. hansen 
a pitcher of beer is really cheap wheQ ordered with dinner. 
Corby's was once considered as a roost for 'roughies' and 'rowdies' though the last couple of years this image has mellowed, especially this year as entirely new breeds and generations of patrons entered its . golden gates. Corby's is a high density establishment, and in years' past the atmosphere used to get pretty high every once in' a while. The pool table located in the center of the tavern is the most prestigous table of any of the bars in the area, primarily due to its location and the attraction of so many people trapped near the table. 
The Library is the best example of a prototype student bar in the area. Discoers may disco to their hearts content, social gatherers can mingle in a mindless melee, couples can cling in cozy corners, perverts can write to large audiences on the bathroom walls. The part/package store makes it a nice place to visit. 
Bridgette McGuire's Filling Station is the most comfortable of all the bars in the area, with fine music and sound system. 
The Red Door Club, downtown South Bend, is a refreshing retreat from Domer­ville, serving fine drinks at very reasonable prices, and pleasant interior decor. Members only are allowed in the club, with annual 'dues' of two dollars, which also serves as membership for Cinnabar's discoteque. Cinnabar's and Davy' Locker, above the Moonraker provide dance and drink in the mode of the subtle erotic !easement known as 'disco'. 
The Good Earth Pub, located beneath the Sheraton on U.S. 31, holds its grand opening tonight, offering live entertain­ment to begin at nine. Publicity has been mainstreamed to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community in preparation for the opening, which according to promoters of the pub. was offered to provide a more refined solution for weekend activity for the students of the colleges 
Somewhere up in Michigan, rest the traditional stomping grounds of those still caught in the age dilemma that Indiana still pursues: Kubiak's, Shula's, The White House. Gone are Fat Wally's and Uncle Willy's Fatal Glass of Beer (now Pandora's Books) and Sweeney's. Boars Head happy hours on Friday afternoons, Doc Pierce's or the Village Pump in Mishawaka, arc refuge for the sophisticated and the somber. The Gipper's Lounge or the Linebacker Inn, for those who have not had enough of Notre Dame football to last them through the winter and summer, along with the Locker Room, in North Village Mall. complete with locker room decor, arc perfect for browsing through Notre Dame football record books and memoralia. Barnaby's serves beer on Sundays. 
totally distinctive master of the modern 
blues. While Collins can be heard on one of his mny albums, catch him live at Washington Hall, where his music comes fully alive. Midwest Blues is back again! Don't miss i$ 

~~----------------------------------------, 


"I get the greasies between shampoos~ 








IntroducingAgreeShampoo 
It helpsstopthegreasies 
between shampoos. 
\. (' . ,\."""· -; 
A major hair care problem is that hair gets oily and greasy too soon after sham­pooing. We call this condition "the greasies:' A major source of the greasies is the build up of excess oil on the scalp which spreads to the hair and attracts dirt and more oil. 
Subsequently, more than one hundred carefully controlled laboratory tests were conducted to confirm that Agree's for­mula cleans better than most leading shampoos. 
Because Agree cleans better, it keeps your hair looking its best longer. 
Agree not only cleans better than most leading shampoos but also leaves your hair with natural body, shine and manageability. Even if you shampoo everyday, Agree will not dry out your hair leaving it with that flyaway, lifeless look 
No Unnecessary Additives. 
New Agree Shampoo is free of ingre­r-~--=---, clients that can
Acree Some 
Sh•mpoo Sh•mpooo 
COmpromise itS ability to give you clean, beautiful hair. And it contains the


fi ~ 
,,,..c....;.................... single most effec­tive ingredient for cleaning hair and 
''With Agree Shampoo, I don't have to worry about the greasies between shampoos:' 
r-------------------­Send for Agree's 

CANVAS CAMPUS 
CARRYAll 
A heavy duty, light weight. vinyl-lined bag to carry around town or around the world. A $7.95 retail value yours for just $4.50. Mail to: PO. Box 5858, Chicago. Illinois 
60677. 
Please send me one Canvas Campus 
Carryall. I enclose $4.50 in check or 
money order, payable to Agree Canvas 
Campus Carryall. 
Name___________ 
gently removing the greasies from your clean hair Agree's formula gently scalp. 
Addr~s ____________ 
cleans the greasies 
City•___________

from hair and scalp. 
The people of the Hair Care Labora­
State_______Zip.

,._.,_IIL..II~I.l:U.J.t Three years ago, a re­tories, Personal Care Division of Allow 4-6 weeks for delivery. Void where
markable formula \.\.TclS dis­Johnson Wax. believe Agree is the finest 
prohibited or restricted. Offer not valid
covered which excelled in shampoo available in either salons or 
outside the United States. Offer expires 
UJ::..LL.Jil.!....::....JI.I....l.l its ability to gently clean retail stores. Try Agree Shampoo for 
6/30/78. both hair and scalp of oil and dirt. yourself 


.. 
II I U; 'I I 
'II ·I
-
('"
!w 
I j
·II 

letters to a Lonely God 

Instead of Junior Parents' Weekend, when (aside from the ritual amounts of rhetoric allowed the Class President) the priests get to do all the talking (and take the majority of bows) .... instead, some year, of showcasing the clerics, The Chapel Choir, and the Faculty, wouldn't it be nice to showcase the parents. inviting them to campus to be Teachers For a Day to the professional Catholics who run this place? Wouldn't it be fun to have a weekend organized as a teach-in bv parents repre­
senting the WISdOm and grace, COUrage and sacrifice, needed to raio;;e up and support a generation of young Christians bright enough and prosperous enough to keep Notre Dame in business? 
This weekend. I will be introduced to at least a few parents who will expect me to glitter. The Junior Parents are invited to Notre Dame to meet other Junior Parents and to be introduced to their sons' and daughters' teachers and rectors and friends. But when those Junior Parents spot a priest, they will expect him to glitter in a saintly and scholarly way. Parents never say: "Go ahead, Father; dazzle me and charm me." though they expect you as a Notre Dame Cleric to be as glamorous to the faith-trade as Liberace is to the piano. But if you have disappointed them, you ca1: imagine a husband saying to his wif · behind your back: "What the hell is wronf: with that priest? Why isn't he glittering? This is Notre Dame, isn't it?" 
Juniors would be surprised at the questions a dull, gray, fat priest (without glitter and in need of ironing) would like to ask them. For example, he would like _to ask: how did you ever have the courage to do it in the first place? Having a b<!by, I 

Family Talk 
mean; bringing a son or daughter into the worla. you ·ve got to oelleve m the _quality· of your genes to do that. You, have got to keep all the good fairies on your side. Once upon a time, I bought a puppy. Since he was the runt of his litter, there were risks of what he would tum out to look like. If he were unhealthy, I could always send him back to the puppy farm. It isn't that way, I understand, with a baby; what you get is what you keep. Don't you know what risks 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
hurt much, and did he cry'! w· left too guardian angel, but I would hate it if the long in a wet diaper, did the child .ill seem theme song of my ministry turned out to Qe to be Nature's priest? Did <.1e poet "Send in the clowns." Wordsworth suffer sometimes from spac-Of parents who have handed on the gift 
ing out on transcendental moonshine? 
I don't have all the answers. I have priest's answers and textbook.answers. Do parents think they have better answers than priests? What do parents tell their kids that priests can't tell them: about God, about_ sex, about Laetrile? When does 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
"" 
H 
••.there is such beauty to be protected, such uirtue to be guarded on this campus, and such an inuestment of loue." 
you were taking·! It seems to me it would take all the faith that a person has just to get married. Having a baby must be.an act of perfect trust that if you ask your father for a loaf of bread, he will not hand you a stone. Considering the thi11gs that caa go wrong. I am always amazed at now populated the world is. 
Did the child come from God, Who is our home, trailing clouds of glory? Were there intimations of immortality, as the poet Wordsworth says? Was the child's birth but a sleep and a forgetting? Did heaven lie about him (or her) in his infancy? Could you feel shades of the prison house begin to close upon the growing child? Did it childhood begin to get lost'! Which griefs are necessary, and at what age? What winds need to be tempered to the shorn lamb? When can you first trust children out of your sight? How late at night must it be before you send for them to come home? 
How soon in the lives of their children should parents begin letting go? 
It seems odd that I, who took no risks of becoming a genetic father, should be serving in loco parentis, fretting at the way in which the twig is bent, like somebody's Jewish mother. But there is such beauty to be protected, such virtue to be guarded on this campus, and such an investment of love. I never wanted to be any child's of life, I would ask: what would you say to a sprig who talks of sending back the gift by taking his own life? God can be trusted to do the tender stroking needed by the wounded creatures who hurl themselves home to His feet. But what counsel do you give to a young adult who has examined 
lifu,andfuunditdullneuandpa~beyond
anyone's power to help and wants to bring back the sadness to its Maker? What cheer or threats do you offer an offspring who is tempted to unmake himself as though choosing to have never been horn? You who have iE.Jvited guests to the feast of life: what words do you say to the urchin who wishes to self-destruct? . Three times within the week, I have heard of this happening, once eYen to a student from the campus. There are priests' answers and textbook answers of what to say when death in a young person's life seems preferable to life; but are there no graces of state that make parents more skilled than professionals in the art of self-cherishing? 
A dull, gray priest asks questions that lack the glitter of insight. He tries to be a loving man to other people's children, having none of his own. On Junior Parents weeJrenrl he wants to say to those oarents: 
we're involved in a partnership where none of us need to take bows. Let's take down the stages and hid away the robes. Let's talk without glasses tinkling, so that I can hear what dreams and fears you had when you took the risk of handing on life to your child. For ~his year at least,_ we don't need 
a showcasmg of the Chapel Choir. The ritual rhetoric would be better left un­spoken. 
Neil Simon's The Goodbye Girl 
Neil Simon's The Goodbye Girl is a romantic comedy we've all seen about a hundred times. The plot is typical--lover­turned-scoundrel dumps girl, girl hardens herself against another potential lover, potential lover struggles against the odds to win her heart, girl finally succumbs, and the two live happily ever after. In The Goodbye Girl, it is the girl who must struggle hardest to maintain a cold front in the face of an infectious and relentless potential lover. Screenwriter Simon uses her, Paula McFadden, to make a simple statement on trust and the irrepressible power of love. 
We first see Paula as a child-like character. Giddy with the thought of moving from her West Side New York apartment to a home in California, she giggles with her young daughter and fantasizes about the stardom her live-in lover will achieve on the west coast. When she learns he has suddenly left her for Italy, she responds in childlike fashion--she runs into the bedroom and bawls into a pillow. Meanwhile, her daughter, Lucy, follows her about trying to make sense of it all--"Does this mean I haveta do my homework, mom?" 
Understanding Lucy is key to understand­ing Paula. A startlingly intelligent grade­schooler with a sharp-witted tongue, she is the perfect contrasting parallel to her mother. On one hand she is a purveyor of simple common sense--for example, she reminds her mother on those early scenes that neither is Tony (the lover-turned­scoundrel) herfather nor a star. "He's just an actor," she says. Lucy's mother is often stubborn and unrealistic, especially with Elliot (the potential lover), who moves into the apartment just after Tony's departure. She crabs about his guitar-playing, tries to keep him from having a girl in his room, and refuses to be the slightest bit friendly to him. Lucy's easy acceptance of him as a living mate is more mature. On the other hand, Lucy is an innocent acceptor of love--Elliot's friendly affection. She trusts. Paula's unwillingness to trust her feelings and those of 'Elliot is what she struggles with throughout the movie. Hardened and bitter, she puts up a stony cold front to the man who tries to be kind to her. The door 
Stickin' around for loue's sake 
-
bryan gruley 
peephole through which Elliot peers is a good. The Goodbye Girl is touchingly sheerly for entertainment, but I think it's good visual metaphor for the tiny opening humorous--not necessarily a barrel of got something to do with our own personalhe must jam through to get into her life. laughs, but rather a kindly perception of need to see love win out, to see love again Elliot Garfield is a young Chicago actor humans in various ridiculous situations. I christened as the force that transcends all who travels to New York to act in his first won't spoil the fun for you by revealing the others. In a movie like The Goodbye Girl, off-Broadway production. He represents details. The performances are solid. Rich­we often become part of the action the power of love--bold, energetic, myster­ard Dreyfuss as the ego-crazed Elliot is ourselves by projecting ourselves psych­ious, humorous, and most importantly, infatuating with his cocksure, individual ologically into the characters on the screen. Here we can see both Paula and Elliot in us simultaneously. Paula seems the "ra­tional" self--hardened, suspicious, un­trusting of "irrational" emotions. Elliot seems the "irrational" self--weirdly in­clined, impulsive, romantic, rebellious. 
The movie's unfolding reveals that Paula is nowhere near as rational or practical as Elliot--a telling instance of this occtlrs when she asks him to help her with a itck Lucy. Her "rationality" is merely a cover for her own fear of trusting someone to love her. She has to work through this fear and drop her cover before she becomes a whole character--until then we see only what she wants to show us, though we feel 
trusting and irrepressible. He demon­manner of attacking life, and his down-to­something underlying her outward appear­
strates his capacity for trust time and earth, even boyish intellectual style. The ance. Perhaps it is what we feel yet don'_t 
again--in his generous offers of money to energy radiated by Dreyfuss is exhilarat­see that keeps us in our seats--we want to 
Paula, in his capitulation to playing Richart ing. Marsha Mason plays a convincing role know that what we see is a false front, that 
III like the "flaming homosexual" his as the stubborn "goodbye girl." but the our feelings haven't betrayed us. We stay director sees him as, and in his hilarious show-stealer (as usual) is the smart kid. not because we wonder how this character attempt to get Paula's purse back from a This time it's Quinn Cummings in her will affirm our feelings for him or her. It's gang of teenage toughs. His irrepres­debut as Lucy. She plays the part with cool almost a love relationship between viewer 
sibility is due both to his character traits--a aplomb and the innocent warmth necessary and character. 
seemingly inexhaustible energy and a taste to keeping Lucy from becoming just At the movie's end, Paula justifies ourfor the unusual--and his position in relation another smart-alecky punk. 
feeling that she will remove the greatestto Paula as her landlord. The inevitability Formally speaking, The Goodbye Girl is obstacle in her path to love--herself.
of his presence coupled with the relentless­nothing terribly special. The editing suits Simon's message is a simple one--to love,ness of his crusade to win Paula keeps us the plot well, moving it fluidly along; short, one must trust, both in oneself and in aware of the inevitable coming of love. funny scenes hold our constant attention others. When Paula truits her ownFrom the scene where Elliot stoops to help and anticipation. The visuals are basic, feelings, and those of Elliot, she can standPaula pick up her spilled spaghetti, we tending in some places toward the roman­in the rain embracing a: guitar, laughing asknow that the relationship is going to work tic with slow pans into close-ups, soft she watches her loved one leave for a cityout. focus, and shadows employed to heighten on the other side of the nation. And, seeing emotional undercurrents. The mise-en­
So why do we stay? Why do we stt this, one is suddenly enlightened, remem­through the same plot we've sat through at scene often includes some humorous visual bering Elliot's words from the very first least fifty times? To see how much skin the "hints"--the sign outside the door of night he stayed in the apartment, when 
-
camera's gonna show us when finally the Elliot's room, the distortion of Elliot Paula asked him to stop playing guitar in 
girl melts into her lover's trembling hands? through the peephole, and the word the middle of the night: "Music is nature's 
There must be other reasons. "anniversaire" stuck between the faces of sedative. Ifyou would just Osten instead of Elliot and Paula near the film's end.
I suppose the need for sheer entertain­fighting it, we'd all be asleep in five ment would be one. A familiar story isn't Still my question remains for the most minutes. However, if you insist on (sleep­

boring if the plot twists are funny or part unanswered--why do we stay when we ing) pills, then take two of them and stick interesting, and the performances are know what's going to happen? It might be one in each ear.'' 
/ 
...t 


Friday, February 24, 1978 
• II 
-

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHf:DULED FOR WEEK OF MARCH 6 
lntervtewa are for senior!!: and graduatf' students. Sign-up sch~dules are Ln Room 213, Main Hulldlng, Interviev' tiwes must be algned for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Rureau will be from 8·00 a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Her. 6 .'\msted Industries, Inc ~ 8 in Acct, ME and Met. 
Chicago Tribune Newspaper 
BBA for Advertising Sales Rep; Circulation 
Manager Tra lnees. 
Factory Mutual Engineering Assoc 
B in ME and AE. 
Flat-Allis, Inc 
B in ME and MEIO. 
First Wisconsin National Hank 
MBA with Acct or P'ln background or 
concentration. B in Acct or Fin. 
tndut~-trial Risk Insurers 8 in Physics or Chem. B in all Lngr discipltnes. 
Kagnavox Government & Electronic Co BM ln EE, Phys lea, Cornp Sc 1. Perkin-Elmer Corp R tn ME and EE. 
Mar. 7 First National Bank of Chicago 
TiiES 8 in AL and B4. 
Haskins 6t Self's 
8 ln Acct. MBA with Acct backgrnd or 
Hewitt Associates 
8 in Math and Comp Set. 
K-Hart Corp 
B ln AL and B.A. 
billy Industrial Coatings, Inc 
CAncelled. 
Parker Hannifin Corp 
A ln HE, MEIO, EE. 
~d~vac 
C. v. Yeager & Associates 8 ln Mgt, t-(BA with background in Hkt, Al"ct. JD. 
Mar. 8 American Graduate School of ~ternati.onal l".Bnageln'!nt WED-8 in all disciplines. 
~rroughs Corporut ion 
MS in ME, MEIO, Math, MBA for Mgt. Systems Analyst. 
MBA for Financial Analyst. 
Comptroller of the Currency 
8 in Econ, Fin, Al"ct. MRA. 
Illlnols Environmental Protection Agency 
BM in CE, ChE, ME. 
Irving Tru~t Co 
B In Acct and Fin~ 
TargetS~ 
All BBA. 
Har 8/9 Firestone Tire & Rubber Co W!DfTIIURS 8) B ln MF., EE, MEIO, ChE, Engr Set. 
Q) 8 in Acct, Mgt, Chern, Hath, MBA with Fin background or concentration 
Mar. 9 Coopers & Lybrand 'i'iiii'Rs":' R in Acct. MBA wt.th Acct bkgrd or conctrn. 
Lincoln Natfonal Life Sin Comp Sci~ Naval Avionics Fac 11 ity f'M ln EE, ME, Comp Engr. StatP F!llrm Insurance Companies Al 1 BBA. Minimum of 12 hours of Acct 
(Re~chedult>d from Jan. 30). Navy Department. Off leer Programs HMD in all dil'lciplines. Northwestern Mutual LifP Int'lurance Co BM in AI. and BA. JD. 
Owens· Illinob, Inc R ln ME, EE, MEIO. 
FRI. R tn MF. and MEIO. Cnnt int>ntal Group Inc RBA anct MRA. ~:basco Srrvicrs, Inc 
RM in ~. EE, MENO, CF., chg, (Rescheduled from Feb 9) 
General Tire 6. Rubber Co. Industrial Products ntv 
8 in Acct. HBA. B in ChE, ME, MEIO, Chern. 
Graphic Sciences, Im· 
All BRA. B in Econ. B ln all Engr disciplines. 
FacsimiliP EquipmPnt, For· Salel'l Reps. Locations: 
Nationwide. Citlzen11hlp required. 
tlatlonal Bank of netrolt 
8 in ALand BA. B in MEIO. 
OwPns-Cornins Fiberglas 
l'!D in ChE, ME and Polymer Chemhts. 
U.S. Department of Commerce. Patent and trade Office BM in ChE, EE and ME. Judge potential of inventions and discoveries in Science or Engineering di.sciplln~R. For Patent F.xamlner. Locatinn· Metropolitan Washington, 
D.C. Citizenship required. 
SU schedules 
Guide meeting 
There will be a meeting for all those interested in working ont he Student Union's "Guide to Flo­rida" Sunday at 10 p.m. in the SU Social Commission office. The office is located on the second floor of LaFortune. 

Director's father Walter Bull dies 
Walter Bull of Rochester, NY, father of G. Thomas Bull, directorof personnel at Notre Dame, died Wednesday night after a brief illness. He was 70. 
Services will be at lO a.m. 1iaturday in Our Lady Queen of 
Peace Church, Rochester. Hedges funeral Home, Empire Building, is ID charge of arrangements. 
Surviving in addition to his son in South Bend are two sons and a daughter. Mr. Bull had been employed for several years by Eastman Kodak Company. 

Logan cancels tonight's dance 
Due to the coal strike, tonight's dance for Logan Center volunteers has been cancelled. The Saturday Recreation period and the Sunday League basketball game have also been cancelled. 
.. • • -~ 
sunday feb 16 9 pm theatre 1st floor Ia fortune 
... -... --•• ~ .... ----.. ---• • ... -... -• --... -... --• -.... -....... ~-..... 6 ­
reCJuirerl. 
concentration 
Rus, 

Indiana utilities cut back 
[continu~~d from page 1] 
"The president spent last week­end touring New England for political purposes. Surely, he can find the time this weekend to come to Indiana and witness first-hand the full impact of his inaction in his crisis,'' Myers said. 
The congressman's invitation received little attention at the White House, however, and even Gov. Otis R. Bowen's aides viewed it as a partisan move. 
"The president is busy trying to settle the coal strike here,'' said Claudia Townsend, White Hou..c. associate press secretary. "We have no specific response at this time to Rep. Myers' invitation." 
William J. Watt, Bowen's top energy adviser, added, "The time the president would spend here is 
Mozart concert open to public 
The Notre Dame Orchestra, with Adrian Bryttan conducting, will present an all-Mozart concert 8:15 
p.m. Monday in Washington Hall. the concert, part of the Notre Dame Concert Series, is open to the public without char~e. 
The program features Bryttan as 
violin soloist and members of the 
Notre Dame Quintet: Melissa 
Bohl, oboe; Anthony Spano, clari­
net; John Stinespring, bassoon; 
and James Todd, horn, in the 
"Sinfonia Concertante in E flat." 
At 2 p.m. Sunday in Washington Hall there will be an informal children's concert based on the same program, at which Bryttan will speak about the concerto and about the role of the conductor in orchestral music. 
The concert will open with the overture to "Cosi fan tutte~·. K. 
588. The Violin Concerto no. 3 in 
G. K. 216, which will follow, was written fifteen years earlier when Mozart was 19 years of age. 
The program will close with the "Sinfonia Concertante in E flat", 
K. Anh. 9 (297b). The "Sinfonia Concertante" ends with a set of variations which will highlight each of the soloists. 
Bryttan will both conduct the orchestra and play the violin solo on Monday night. Although the practice of conducting from the instrument is atypical today, it was prevalent in the time of Mozart. 
more time we would see delays in 
any action." 
Watt said about 4,000 tons of 
coal moved from non-union mines 
Wednesday and that would be 
increased with the end of convoys 
transferring supplies from a Public 
Service Indiana stockpile at Prince­
ton, Ind., to the utility's power 
plant at Cayuga, north of Terre 
Haute. 
The number of .guardsmen was released because the convoys were discontinued and fewer men were needed for security around the non-union mines, Watt said. 
James T. Smith, the governor's executive assistant for police mat­ters, said about 45,000 tons of coal have been shipped since Bowen first activated the guard ten days ago. 
That wasn't enough to ease the pinch on utilities. 
The U.S. Energy Department reported yesterday that coal stock­piled by Indiana utilities could run out by the end of April. 
The department said Indiana utilities burned 481,265 tons of coal last week but received delivery of only 133,097 tons of new coal. That amounted to 27.6 percent of their needs, leaving almost three­quarters of Indiana's electricity to come from stockpile coal. 
Two Indiana utilitites -Public 
jlEMEMBeR. !300blc HAS ••• 
Service Indiana and Hoosier Ener­gy -already have reached a 40-day stockpile level, triggering manda­tory service curtailments. A third, Indiana & Michigan Electric Co., says it will make cutbacks today. 
State budget experts also expressed growing concern about the effects of the linllerinll strike. 

Montagu states men 'weaker sex' 
PROVIDENCE* R.I. [API -Ash­ley Montagu, the British anthropol­ogist, was in Rhode Island this week to expound on his theory that women are smarter and stronger than men. 
Montagu told students at Rhode Island College that, yes men are ''muscularly more powerful.'' but that's only because they have larger and coarser bones. Women, says Montagu, live longer and get sick less often. and that makes them the stronger sex. 
As for IQ, the anthropologist conceded women haven't produced . as many masterpieces in art and 
· music because they haven't had the same opportunities as men. But "women's intuition" makes them brighter than men. 

-


Friday, February 24, 1978 


Top-rated Warriors invade ACC 
[continued from page 12] The top rebounder is Mar­quette's "aircraft Carrier", Jer­ome Whitehead. He has collected 
8.2 rebounds and 14.0 points per game. One of the most underrated players in the country, Whitehead scored 22 points and grabbed nine rebounds against DePaul's Dave Corzine in the Warriors 80-74 victory at Milwaukee earlier this month. 
Marquette has not been defeated since Loyola of Chicago pulled off a 68-64 upset in the ancient Amphi­theatre on January 28. How did the Ramblers do it? Marquette shot only 42 percent from the field and committed 18 turnovers against Loyola's 1-2-2 zone defense. · 
But the key statistic in the final figures of Marquette's last defeat was rebounding. Loyola grabbed 46 missed shots to onl 29 for Hank 

FRIDAY Miller Night FEB 24 
TONIGHT 
50¢ Pitcher of Miller Beer w/ purchase of any larg_e pizza 410 N. Hill 233-2267 Min.utes ·from campus 


ACarl Reiner Film 


HENRY WINKLER 
• 

Paramount PICtures Presents AFirst Artrsts Product1on 
Her.ry Winkler is"The One and Only" Kim Darby William Daniels Harold Gould Herve Villechaize Polly Holliday and Gene Saks 
Written by Steve Gordon Executive Producer Robert Halmi Produced by Steve Gordon and David V. Picker Directed by Carl Reiner Soundtrackalbumavarlableon !AI
ABC records and GRT tapes • : 
1
~:.:.~ 0-=-.; 
TCNVn & Country n Town & Country Shopping Center 
1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 9:45 

Raymonds club. This-has been the Warriors only weakness this sea­son. They have grabbed only two more rebounds a game than their opponents. Over the last three years rebounding has been a 
strength of the  Irish.  They  are  
twice  the  defending  national  re­ 
bound margin champions and  are  

currently 15th in the nation -ip the , key category. 
So, the overall matchup will be between Notre Dame's strength and Marquette's quickness. Don't be surprised if Raymonds trys to exploit this by applying fullcourt pressure· and inserting Rosenber­ger to give Marquette a three­guard offense. 
For the Irish to win, they must get consistent shooting perfomances from their top eight players. If Raymonds trys to go with a quick, small team the roles of Tracy Jackson, Kelly Tripucka and Stan Wilcox will be very important. 
Both teams are two good to blow each other out. Since the series was resurrected in 1969 after a 10 year layoff the largest margin of victory has been nine points. Sunday's clash will be another standing and screaming marathon for the Notre Dame student body. NBC will surely get their money's worth. 
As AI McGuire would say, "It'll be a white-nuckler". 
I 
February 2'f • March 3 
'This Wetk At The I • 
Career Deveiopnent Center Saint Maryfs College 284·+431 
INTERVIEWS 
Action-Peace Cm s.-'ista­Lemans Lobby Tues. Feb. 213 
Indiana State F ·sc 1el ­Govt, Career DaJ -N .... re Dame Tues. Feb. 28 
U.S. Navy Wed. March 1 Sears Roebuck Thurs, March 2 
~~ilea Lab Fri. /-larch 3 Prudential Insurance Fri. March 3 
• 
Travelers Insurance Tues, March 7 ' Target Stores, Inc. 'rues. t-1arch 7 

• 
K Mart Corporation Wed. l·la.rch 9 '" Wilson Foods Thurs~ March 9 

• 
National Bank of Detroit Thurs. March 9 


~ State Farm Insurance 'I'hur!'s. March 9 
' I 
• flocsevelt Univ, -t.e:wyers kssist. Prog, Fri.1• to\arch 10 
•Sign~up starts Mq'nday Feb. 27, 1978 
WORKSHOPS  
Title  ~  ~  ~  
ReslJJIIe & Skill ID  Mon. 2/27  h-9 I  Mary Ann Daly Leslie Wilson  
Assertive & Interview skills  Wed/ 3/1  /3o15­/5-15  M.. Laverty S. Areaon  
Values Clarification &  
Decision Making  Wed. 3/1  '1-3 I  J, Gonnan  
~~or.c~,.t~ering &  Sun 3/5  I  7-9  E. 'IVitcbell  
I  

Open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame spldents. Please sign up for all interviews, workshops, and events at the COC', Studen~ Af'rairs Wing, 175 LeMans Hall. These schedules are subject to change. Call the CDC for the latest information on 
postponements and cancellations, 

,,_,•····.......If 
. ~A#
1& 

~-············"" 


All l·ta.jors 
All 1-te.jors All Majors Ret. Mgm/r:dt. Sales/ 
Cntr/Data Proc/ r::pywr r":hem./Acc, /Comp.Sc/ Math All tl.s.jors 
Pus. or · iberal Arts r:aj. Pusiness or related field All majors Pus, p,d,IEcon./Pio Chern Flus, Ad. 'Finance/Econ. I 
l iberal Arts Acct./J.lath/CpSc All t·~ajors 
~ 
Executive Board Rm. [161 U1l Stud. Aff. Conf, (170 W) 
Stud, Aff, Con!'. Rm. 
Stud. Aff. Con!'. Rm. 
Juniors, sign up 
for yearbook pix 
Any juniors who have not yet made an appointment to have their Senior Yearbook Portraits taken please call3557 or stop in Room 2C of LaFortune between 9 a.m. and 5 
p.m. There is no charge to have your picture taken at this time, however, there will be a $10 sitting fee in the fall. 
Magnavox to market football highlights 
Magnavox has obtained 
exclusive marketing rights to taped 
replays of highlights of the 1977 
Notre Dame football season. The 
highlights will be offered by Mag­
navox on pre-recorded video cas­
settes as part of the company's 
movie and sports video cassette 
promotion beginning in mid­
March. 
Eleven regular season games 
and the victory over Texas in the 
Cotton Bowl will be featured on the 
cassettes which will be available at 
participating Magnavox dealers as 
of March 15. The marketing rights 
were obta;ned from the C.D. 
Chesley Company, producers of a 
nationally-syndicated Notre Dame 
highlights television program aired 
weekly during the football season. 
The action highlights of the past 
season will be narrated by Lindsey 
Nelson, the sports-caster who has 
narrated the weekly Notre Dame 
highlights program for the past 
nine years. Nelson, a play-by-play 
sports announcer for more than 25 
years, also serves as the voice of 
the New York Mets baseball team 
on television. 
In announcing the football pro­
motion, Kenneth L. Ingram, Mag­
navox's senior vice-presideni for 
Sales alld Marketing, said that no 
other football team, college or 
professional, enjoys the na'ional 
following of Notre Dame. "Because 
of this national loyalty, the Notre 
Dame ~ Xltball highlights program 
is quite appropriate to our efforts to 
supply the consumer with high 
quality and unique video cassette 
programming.'' 
Ingram presented a video cassett 
recorder and the initial Notre Dame 
highlights video cassette to Notre 
Dame on behalf of Magnavox. 
Accepting for Notre Dame was 
Roger Valdiserri, Sports Informa­
tion director . 


. , 
10 the ObServer Friday, February 24, 1978 


Film depicts miners in 1973 coal strike 
b.l' Pegg_l' McGuire Senior Staff Reporter 
Uarlan County, U.S.A. "cap­
tures the spirit of a place, a people, 
and an insoluble predicament,·· 
daimcd Rich Vein in an October, 
1976 Time Magazine article. 
The 1976 Academy Award win­
ning film will be presented next 
Thursday at J and 7 p.m .. Friday 111 
J. 7. and 9:30 p.m .. and Saturday at I, J:JO, and 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
The Center for Experiential 
Learning, in collaboration with the 
Institute for Urban Studies, the 
American Studies department, the 
Notre Dame Student Government, 
CILA, the Center for Pastoral and 
Social Ministry, and the Notre 
Dame-St. Mary's Committee on 
Education for Justice, is· sponsor­
ing the event. 
L The !film recaps the strike of the 
IHrookside works coal miners of 
eastern Kentucky. The 13 month­
long strike began in 1973 when 
miners voted to join the United 
Mine Workers of America, The 
Duke Power Company, the miners' 
parent company, refused to sign 
the contract. 
"In light of the present coal 
strikes, the film will be here at a 
very key time," stated Fr. Don 
McNeil, director of the Center for 
Experientiallearning 
'"Harlan County, U.S.A. is not 
an exact depiction of the present 
situation," he expounded. "The 
tilm is not so much to tell people 
what the issues are as to give them 
a feel for the people who are 
struggling." 
Mary Ann Roemer, associate 
director of the Center for Experi­
ential Learning, said that the 
center decided to sponsor the film 
because "just reading in newspa­
pers doesn't give a picture of what 
it is really like to struggle a whole 
year. This film personalizes the 
problems of an entire segment of 
our population." 
McNeil ordered the film last fall. on the recommendation of Kathy Osbcrger, a Notre Dame graduate. He wrote to faculty members, asking them to include the film on their syllabi. At some of the performances, students viewing the film for a class will have reserved seats. 
ND displays author's works 
Notre Dame's collection of Author Eric Gill's sculpture, liter­ary and art works is on display in the University's Memorial Library Concourse. A broad spectrum of books, hundreds of engravings, more than one hundred original photographs of Gill's sculpture and numerous woodlock metal photo­graph plates arc included in the collection contributed by John Ben­nett Shaw, a Notre Dame alumnus, or purchased from worlwide deal­ers. 
One of the prized items in the Notre Dame collection is an original signed 1and dated pencil sketch of a proposed altar design which is apparently not listed anywhere in the Gill literature. Other major ftoldings of his works are located in the Victoria and Albert, Tate, Stanford and other museums. 
Gill, born in 1882 in Brighton, England, gained respect as an artist, sculptor, engraver, typo­grapher, book illustrator, architec­tural designer, calligrapher, printer, social philosopher and Catholic author before his death in 1940. He joined the Order of St. Dominic as a tertiary ir. 1914 after going through periods of Anglican­ism and Agnosticism. Later, he became almost exlusively engaged with book art for Golden Cockerel Press, considered to be one of the finest private presses in history. 
As a social philosopher Gill fought against industrialbm and commercialism and repeatedly sought pacifism and social justice. His epitaph, .which he designed himself, simply read: "Pray for Me. Eric· Gill, Stone Carver, 1882-1940.'II • • 
In order to produce the film, Barbara Kopple went to Kentucky and lived with the miners and their families. Jennifer Dunning in an October, 1976 article in The New York Times, said that Kopple carried a revolver with her at all times after the strikes grew violent and a miner was killed. 
"I can't describe what it was like being there," Kopple stated in the article. "There were moonshiners and snakehandlers, and it was 'shoot first, talk later.'., 
The film uses no narration, and conveys all of its meaning by_ editing. It also uses intercuts of old footage from a 1931 strike in the same region. 
Richard Eder. in an October IS, 1976 article in The New York Times said that "the film is entirely partisan, ...but, consider­ing that the film is forthrightly an effort to see the struggle through 
the  miner's  eyes,  this  is  no  
drawback.··  
"More  serious  arc  the  some­ 

times questionable ways in which the film advances its message: that the Harlan strike is only part of a struggle, and that the miners must go on struggling and striking.'' he continued. 
McNeil hopes to see more films of this type on campus. "Most clubs are only interested in spon­soring films which will sell," he said. "We need to restore the balance and show no.t only enterc tainment films. ·but also films which will challenge students and make them think." 
An Tostal meeting Sunday 
An organizational meeting will be held for all those interested in working on An Tostal this Sunday at 9 p.m. in the little theatre, first floor LaFortune. All interested persons are invited to attend. 
STUDENTS NEEDED . . . to post adventstnQ m•tertdls on the bulletin boards of thts and/or nearby campuses Choose fOUr own hours and scnedule, work up to 15 hours per week, pay based upon amount of work done our average re~ earns 4 65/hour Wrne for booklet to 
~~·~~9 a~~a~¥: ~~Ew~0~~ Avenue N seattle. 

I 


I. I 
lI 
\ 


requirements tor a No. 1 oanquet or a No. 1graduation party. 

The L.H.lnn offers: exquisite food private bar I entertainment with dance floor sleeping rooms 
Contact the L. H. Inn-255-4786 or visit us 2754 Lincolnway East Mishawaka 
~iiiiiiiiiiiTiiiihiiiiisiiiaiiiidiiiidiiiieiiiintiiiiitiiile_iiiis.~-iiiiai~iii~-iiiitoiiii1iii_Fii~Rii_E_Eilcaiiiir~iiifeiiiioiiif_ii'!'ii~li-e•wliiithilm•eliaiiiil.lilllilii-., / 
--·-~----------·-· -----·--~~----····-----------·--­
COMPARE and CONTRAST 

TI!E 13UTIO'l-UNE 00IENTED soc rElY oF TH~ 7U's,,. 
~JilH Th£ I~ li"'V'11"J SURVIVAL ~OCIE:lY o;:-HIE THiRD \DRL!), 
mscuss wrTrl Fcr\J''iR r8;CE mRPS N{lJ 
VISTA VOLUNTEERS GN CJWUS:______ 
FfACI CDRPS AND VISTA..ALIVE 1'-ND \\GRKING. 
SiGN-UP FOR PLACEHEtiT {}FICE HJTERVID~ •. 
11





PEACE 
C{W»RPS lusuLFJ 
On Campus February 28 March 2 in the Lbary Concourse and March 1-2 at the Placement Center 
Sign up NOW for an interview 
J 

Tar Heels fall to Wolfpack 
RALEIGH* N.C. [AP] -Clyde Austin scored 14 points, including a driving lay-up with 20 seconds left, to boost North Carolina State past eighth-ranked North Carolina 72-67 in Atlantic Coast Conference basketball Thursday night. 
Austin's basket gave the Wolf­pack a 68-67 lead. North Carolina was forced to foul when it lost the ball, and Kenny Matthews and Tiny Pinder each hit on 1-and-1 opportunities, sealing the victory. 
The injury-riddled Tar Heels, playing without regulars Phil Ford, Mike O'Koren and Rich Yonador, dropped into a tie with Duke for first place in the ACC. The two teams, both with 8-3 conference records. meet Saturday. 
NOTICES 
Typing  done  in  home.  Fast  accurate  
reasonable.  Close  to  campus.  Call  
272-7866 anytime.  

Logan Vulunteers: Dance this Friday night, Feb. 24th at Logan Center, 7:30 pm till 10:00 pm. Come and dance the night away! Rides leave N.D. Main Circle at St. Mary's at 7:15pm. Any questions call Art Koebel 287-7509 or Jeanne Conboy 284-4391. 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7 pm. Anyone wishing to make appoint­ment for confession may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, papers typ­ed. IBM Selection II Linda's letters. 287-4971. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, Fast typing. Mrs Donoho 232-0746 Hours 8am to 6 pm. 
Typing Done Reasonable Rates Call8086. 
One roommate to share Campus View Apartment. Please call 277-3509. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies. Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona. 85011 
COLLEGE GRADS PEACE CORPS AND VISTA The Peace Corps and Vista offer unique opportunities for qualified individuals to use their knowledge and skill to help in developing nations in Africa, South America. Asia and all over the United states. Build a better future for others as you enhance your own. Openings in a variety of fields. Living expenses, travel and other benefits are provided. For more info on how to apply, contact volunteer recruiters at Campus. Febru­ary 28-March 2in the Library Concourse· and March 1-2 at the Placement Center. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best." 
LOST AND FOUND 
Valuable pen found approx 2 weeks ago between O'Shag and Chern Engineering Bldgs. Call 3869 to claim. 
FOUND: Men's gloves in room 343 Niewland. Call 272-2548. 
LOST: Ladies Gold watch at Mardi Gras Sat. Linda 7812. 
FOUND: Silver wire-framed glasses out­side ACC before Maryland game. Call 1475. 
LOST: A pair of large brown-framed eyeglasses in a brown case. Reward. Call Rocky m3. 
LOST: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat. Nite Special Xmas present. Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
LUST: one blue ski glove (left-hand) between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thursday, Feb. 2 approx 4:45 pm. If found please contact George at 1248. 
Friday, February 24, 1978 
the observer ___11 
Tom Desmond 
Strategy 
cont'd.l 
[continued from page 12] 
waning moments. The Warriors have Butch Lee and he delivers with let the two big men rebound while the three little guys fly. How much more skill than an experienced obstetrician. But the Irish have the the depth of Notre Dame controls the inside play will go a long way to home court advantage and that certain magic against number-one deciding the end-game strategy. ranked teams. Similar to chess, it is the end-game that is the most crucial part of the At times this season the Irish have looked like the champions many contest. The openings are merely move and countermove as each team felt they would be. While on other occasions the NIT tourname~t diagnoses the other. The strategies that are working become apparent committee has been drooling because of the team's performance. Wtll in the middle twenty minutes but it's execution and psychological it be Jeckel or Hyde? It's hard to say but with five days to prepare and adjustments that dictate the final ten minutes. the opportunity at hand to dump the reigning lords, there _"":ill be no The Irish have had trouble down the stretch this season. Leads have reason for the Irish to play at anything less than full capabthty. been squandered, attempts to save lost games aborted. Psychologi­So, what will the national audience feed on? BLT--or Duck soup? cally, Marquette would seem to have the advantage in a close game's 
103 Dixie Way So.



PENDLE 
Roseland 46637 272-5540 
ITIB~-+~--------~
OPEN: MON-·THURS 9AM-11 PM 
Entertainment with Sundown
FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday
SUN 12NOON-12PM 
9:30-1:30 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES,  BEER & SNACKS  Full Menu incl Sandwiches  
Tues Night  Pitchers 2 for 1  
BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END  Beer Wine  Liquor  
I BLOCK NORTH OF STATE LINE ON  U.S. 31  Carryout food available  


. ·." _ ;_-·~'-'> --.,_ < I I 
0 
--~~-. 
•..... 

1.._2___t...,h'-"-e%.......:o'""-""b:.31s~eurv~e~r_____F_ri_d-'ay--'-,_February 24, 1978 
Top-ranked Warriors invade ACC 

by Tim Bou,rret number-one ranked teams in col­their 19th victory and assure them­Sports Writer lege athletics. This Sunday at 4:00 selves of an NCAA bid. 
pm Notre Dame will attempt to The Warriors have been out­When most people discuss Notre continue this legendary tradtition standing in both the departments Dame athletics the word upset when it faces the top college the Irish have recently been de­always enters the conversation. basketball team in the country, the ficient in. Hank Raymonds' first Froni a 1946 tie in Yankee Stadium 22-2 Marquette Warriors. team has connected on 51.5 percent against a number-one ranked Army With the spirit of the student of their shots, a figure that will foothall team that had a 25-game body, the national television audi­almost certainly break the Mar­winning streak. to last year's 92-83 ence and Notre Dame's habit of quette record for field accuracy, triumph over an undefeated and upsetting number-one ranked 47.8 in the 1969-70 season. They top-ranked San Francisco basket­squads, the Warriors seem to be have won their last seven games ball team and a trouncing of an set up for a disappointing after­with solid ball-handling and a undefeated 1977 Texas football noon. But Digger Phelps' team will minimal amount of turnovers. team the Irish have established have to make a drastic improve­The hottest of all the Warriors a tradition as the most renowned ment in the shooting and turnover and perhaps the finest one-on-one strcak-hrl•aker and of departments if arc toregister player in the country is Alfred 
~, ' ·~L;;-_ i··~. 
"Butch" Lee. Last year's most
\~iJ:\''' 
valuable player of the NCAA finals has averaged 20.6 points and connected on 64 percent of his field goals over the seven-game streak. In the Warriors victory over Xavier last Monday evening he passed Dean Meminger for third place on the all-time Marquette scoring list. He needs only 16 points in suday's game to pass former teammate Bo Ellis for the runner-up spot. George Thompson's 1773 total is not out of his range if the Warriors duplicate last year's performance in the NCAA tournament. 
Lee's scoring statistics have dipped somewhat this season. In the national championship season he averaged 19.6 points per game, but this year he's scoring only 17 points per outing. But his decrease in scoring is not the result of poor shooting. He has made 52 percent of his Field goal attempts and is tenth in the coutry in free thro percentage with a .901 figure. Because of his reputation as the best one-on-one player in the land, the oppostion usually devises special defenses to stop the 6-2 senior. Only two teams have played a man-to-man defense 
The Irish will need a solid game from Rich Branning to defeat against the Warriors all season. top-ranked Marquette on Sunday. When Lee sees these weird 
Paul Stevenson·=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=====:=:=:=:=:=·=:=·=·=-=·=·=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=:=·=·:-:::-:-::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.;::::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 
=·=:=:=:=:=:=·=·=:=:=:=:=·=·=:::::::;.;::::=::::;.;::::::::::::::.=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=:=:::=:=:=:=:=============:=======:=====:===============:=:===:===:::=:===:===:============:====:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=::::::::-:;:-:Marquette 
Although basketball competition between Notre next game, the Irish fell to North Carolina. the team Dame and UCLA may be the biggest intrasectional that made it to the finals against Marquette, 79-77. rivalry in the country. the series between the Irish and Notre Dame made the NCAA regionals for the fourth the Warriors has always been Filled with a straight year, a feat only equalled by UCLA trememdous amount of intensity and emotion for the entire 40 minutes of action each season. Notre Dame had led the Tarheels throughout the 
Event though Notre Dame maintains a 54-22 contest. but even though the Irish played extremely advantage in the series which dates back to 1920, the well, their lack of depth hurt in the end. By the Irish have not been able to defeat Marquettesince the conclusion of the game, the Notre Dame cagers were 1973-74 team, captained by Gary Novak and John exhausted from 40 minutes of hard-fought action. Shumate, beat the Warriors. But, this season may have a different ending in 
On January 29. 1974, Notre Dame downed the store for the Irish. Notre Dame has been bles(led with Warriors 69-63 in the ACC. However, the following a fine crop of talented freshmen. This group, plus the year in Milwaukee. Marquette edged the Irish 71-68. return of Bill Laimbeer, gives the Irish and added 
In 1976. Notre Dame was 21-4 when the Warriors dimension. entered the ACC arena on February 28. However, "For the first time I think we have the size and the Marquette had only one blemish on their record at depth," Head Coach Digger Phelps commented after that point, a 77-73 loss to Minnesota. the Fordham contest. 
But, with the crowd of 11,345 and a television Yes, Notre Dame has an abundance of talent which audience to add to the emotions, the Irish attempted can be a major plus in a.tournament as competitive as to hand Marquette their second setback of the season. the NCAA's. But, confidence is major factor in any 
On the contrary. that was one event which never sport and after losses to DePaul and South Carolina, occurred as the AI McGuire led Warriors downed many thought the Irish were in for a nose dive. Notre Dame 81-75. However, Notre Dame's victory over the Wolfpack 
Last season, the Irish lost their third consecutive who defeated North Carolins last night, 72-67, showed game to the warriors in the Milwaukee Arena. The that the Irish are trying to make it back to the top. loss a 78-6illllflrashing, was the fourth straight for the The contest on Suday against the Warriors is one ;oung Irish over a tough Christmas vacation. that many schools only dream about. Here you have 
The 1977-78 season comes very close to paralleling the number-one team in the nation in both wire that of last year's cage squad. Notre Dame got off to service polls. A victory over Marquette can give the a tine start in both years, but the holiday break to its Notre Dame cagers all the momentum they need as toll on the Notre Dame quintet. they conclude their season and head for the NCAA's 
In addition, their conFidence has to be at a peak.
Then after break last season, the Notre Dame lagers won ten out of their next II games. This year, With a little vocal support, that pinnacle can be t:he Irish won nine in a row after losing three out of 
attained. When Notre Dame ends their season and four over Christmas. prepares for tournament competition, there will not be 11,345 ACC fans to support them.
On February 19,1977, the Irish fell to West Virginia However, the talent is there. In addition, thaton the road. his year, almost to the day, on February talent is just waiting to explode. The top-ranked team18, Notre Dame was a victim of a solid South Carolina is the perfect team to explode upon.
club. 
Last season it was 29-1 for 30 minutes before theBut last season, the Irish continued their overall game. On Sunday, the Warriors will enter the ACC success and on March 1, Notre Dame shocked with a 22-2 ledger, so before the game
top-ranked San Francisco, 93-82, before the most Warriors should hear 22-3.
partisan crowd I have ever witnessed in the ACC. 
There is no doubt that this contest will be packed
Thatjgame was a great moment for the Notre Dame with excitement for the entire 40 minutes. this is a big basketball program. After losing Adrian Dantley, last game for Notre Dame. The seniors at du Lac have year's Fighting Irish were not expected to fair well never seen the Irish defeat the Warriors. This 
during the 1976-77 season. But, through sheer Sunday is the ideal time to put an end to that dedication and desire, Notre Dame made the NCAA's tradition. for the fourth stratght year, a feat only equalled by The Irish are capable and so is the student body.UCLA There has to be enough support on this sabbath day to The Irish went on he opening game of the carry the Irish, not only past Marquette, but all the tournament, defeating Hofstra, 90-83. Then, in their way to the NCAA's. 
Tom Desmond 
Strategy 
Duck Soup 
The column heading looks familiar. doesn't it? No, the Irish are not 
scheduled to play a football game this weekend. The "main event" of 
the home basketball schedule is this weekend, however, as the Irish 
will battle the number-one ranked Marquette Warriors. 
Marquette is the defending national champion and, with a 22-2 
record this season, they have certainly been performing like they 
intend to do it again. But, this is a different Marquette squad because 
that "showman of showmen" AI McGuire is not at the end of the 
bench. Instead we find Hank Raymonds, the man behind last year's 
championship team as McGuire's assistant, assuming the role of the 
head coach. Raymonds is continuing the successful ways ol the 
Milwaukee-based institution and with a week to prepare for the lr;ish 
(M.U. last played Monday night when they beat Xavier), he will definitely have his Warriors armed to do baJtle in the A.C.I. Digger Phelps has just one less day to prepare but he too will reach into his bag of tricks in search for the right formula to beat the kingpim of the college courts. With two of the game's top tacticians working overtime to prepare for the nationally-televised battle. here is how the match-up between number-one Marquette and number-nine Notre Dame cooks up: 
It's BLT when Marquette is on the attack. BLT is "Butch Lee 
Time." The senior all-Aml•rican is, in this writer's opinion, the finest 
guard in the countr~·-He can do it all--run the offense, or be the 
offense. When the times get tough. Lee is Marquette's main man. He 
is averaging over 17 points per game and carries a 51 percent shooting 
average. From the line he is nearly automatic as he hits 90 percent of 
his charity tosses. But, he alos paces Marquette in assists with nver 
120 on the season. A veteran, he is the governor on the Warrior 
machine as he dictates the tempo. 
Joining Lee is the Jerome Whitehead. the "ain:raft carrier" 111 the 
middle. The hero of last year·~ national semi-final again-;t 
UNC-Charlotte. Whitehead is second on the team in scoring with a 14 
point average but has improved his shooting accuracy to 58 percent. If 
Lee were absent, Whitehead would be the designated superstar. 
Jim Boylan is the other starting guard and like Lee he handle~ the point and shooting guard positions admirably. When Lee was shut out by Missouri (he dealt out II assists), Boylan hit for 29 points. Gary Rosenberger is the third guard whom Raymonds will insert if he feels his team needs more speed. A deadly shooter. "Rosy" gives the visitors a potent three-guard attack. 
Up front the forwards arc Ulice Payne (a high school teammate of Joe Montana) and Bernard Toone. Payne and Toone combine for IS points a game and give the Warriors some quickness while giving away some height. 
Defensively the Irish will employ the switching man-to-man and match-up zones that were so effective against North Carolina State. With veterans like Lee and Boylan it will be hard for the Irish to keep the Warriors off-balance for any length of time with one defense. Look for Digger to be up from the bench, constantly directing traffic and utilizing a group of bread-and-butter defenses to slow down the Warrior attack. 
When the Irish are on offense: Power is the name of the Irish game and they demonstrated it with their inside play against N.C. State. The Irish are 8th in the nation in Field gQal percentage, due mostly to the excellent shooting of Dave Batton (58 percent) and the good shots that the Irish offensive patterns earn. 
Once again the Irish will look to their motion game to get everyone involved in the offense and work the ball inside along the wings and baseline. With the passing game zone offense, and the motion, the Irish run "high risk" offenses as was the case Tuesday when Notre Dame committed 22 turnovers. Deliberate offensive patterns will be a key against the quick Warriors. 
Marquette will counter with their quickness that has made them the nation's third best defensive team. The Warriors yield under 60 points per contest and can stop you with the man-to-man gut defense or junk you to death with a variety of zones. The Warriors harrass opponenets as indicated by their number-six ranking in field goal percentage defense. 
Intangibles: Rebounding is often a key to victory. The Irish tear away an average of seven more rebounds per contest than their opponents. The Warriors on the other hand snare but two more boards per game. The Irish have the power in Flowers, Batton and Laimbeer, but Digger also has quickness and power in Kelly Tripucka, Tracy Jackson and Orlando Woolridge. The intangible is the response of the talented freshmen to the experienced Warriors, and their ability to hold their own in the pressure situations. 
Another consideration is the depth of the respective squads. The Warriors are essentially a six-man team--three deep at guard, three front line players. The Irish have the front court depth to turn the game into a foul-ridden brawl under the boards, if they can keep pace with the Warriors who like to substitute Rosenberger for Payne and 
[continued on page 11 [ defenses that concentrate on stop­ping his scoring he becomes the quarterback of the offense. Mis­:souri played a "gadget" defense against Lee and held the Bronx, New York native scoreless. But Lee was a major factor in the Warriors easy victory as he dealt out II assists. 
The receipiant of many of Lee's passes in that Missouri contest was senior guard Boylan He connected on 14 of 20 shots and scored a career high 29 points against the Tigers. The former Assumption College(MA.) star has scored 8.6 points and dealt out five assists per game. 
A third senior will see much playing time if the Irish utilize a zone defense. Gary Rosenhergcr is one of the most respected outside shooters in the country. He averages 6.3 points per contest on 53 percent field goal shooting. The diminutive lefthander scored 19 points, including eight in the second overtime of Marquette's exciting national television victory over South Carolina. 
The enigmatic Bernard Toone will start at one forward. The 6-8 muscleman averaged only 4.4 points per game last season, but showed he has unlimited potential when he almos single-handidly defeated Wake Forest in the Mid­west Finals of the 1977 NCAA tournament. He has been a bit more consistent this season, as he has increased his scoring average to 9.1. Ulice Payne, a former high school teammate of Notre Dame quarterback Joe Montana, will start in the frontcourt. The 6-6 senior has averaged 6.2 points and 
5.1 rebounds per game. [continued on page 91 










