
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 111 Thursday, April 6, 1978 
Friedan explores women's role 
by Marjorie Irr 
background in surburban life that women today are familiar with. 
made her aware of and sensitive to Professional schools now have high 
Betty Friedan, founder and first "the problem that has no name." percentages of women enrolled. president of the National Organiza­Friedan's name for it was the title "Georgetown's law school is 40 tion for Women (NOW}, told a of her book, The Femlnlme Mys­percent women." In addition, mostly female audience in tique. women have better roles in the O'Laughlin Auditorium last night media and politics. "Now we see that by "asserting their personali­The women's movement Barbara Walters, Mary Tyler ties and uniqueness women have Moore and even Charlie's Angels. found identity with other women The year after the book was They might be sex objects (referr­and moved into the mainstream of published, Friedan initiated the ing to the Angels). but they think, American society.'' effort to end discrimination on the they have some pizazz," she noted. 
Friedan, who spearheaded the basis of sex. The movement began women's movement in 1963 with when the Congress was pasing the Image Distortion her best-seller The Feminine Mys­Civil Rights Act of 1964, Friedan tique. was a keynote speaker for explained. With all its victories, the fight for Women's Opportunity Week at "Title VII of the bill was to equality is not without its prob­Saint Mary's College. provide an end to sex discrimina­lems, Friedan continue'd. "The 
After informing the audience tion. But Congress had to be media treated the women's move­that the changes of the past 15 adjourned because of the laughter. ment as a joke. Some women were years, along with the Equal Rights Itwas a joke. It was included but it acting with rage. Then, in the late Amendment, are in jeopardy, Frie­was not going to be enforced," she 60s when the college students got dan discussed the traditional role of recalled. involved, they applied the class the American woman. NOW started in 1966 but it was warfare interpretation to the move­
"A woman was detined by her not until a few years later that it ment. That was too extreme. The necessity," Friedan said."lt's what gained respect, legitimacy and image was distorted and the media we grew up with in the Judeo­enough power to influence some exaggerated it even more." Christian heritage. Motherhood landmark decisions for women, she "The womens' movement was was the role of the woman. She noted. only part of a much larger revolu­was the breeder of the human "At one time, the only job a tion -a sex role revolution." race." stated the mother of two. woman could apply for at American However, Friedan explained, not 
"You don't remember how iso~ Telephone and Telegraph was as every one accepts the need for this Jated women were. Women were an operator. The airlines used to revolution. blanked out beyond their sexual make stewardesses retire when "There is an enemy out there. It relation to men," Friedan said, they turned thirty or got pregnant. is the reactionary forces that really recalling the late fifties when she Now they can age gracefully in the feel threatened. It is the John was a surburban housewife. Betty Friedan, author of The Feminine Mystique drew a large, skies." Birch groups, the right-wing 
"After World War II. women mostly female crowd last night at Saint Mary's. [Photo by Ken -Friedan admitted that the post­church hierarchy, and the Klu Klux were seduced and bemused to McAlpine] War image is not one that college [Continued on page 2] think that there was nothing wrong with giving up their education to put their husbands through school. It was her duty to be a wife and 
Election violation may change results
mother.'' Friedan said. 
Women's magazines and televi­by Mike Lewis ballot box misunderstood and vote in the election today to· Activities and the Senior Class sion. she explained. reinforced the News Editor thought that the hours for voting at determine the sophomore class Officers. Senior Class President image. "Nobody realized, though. the Huddle were the same as the officers. Pat Flynn pointed out that the that this image was an insult. Off campus students will be able residence halls.' There are approximately 130 election committee had a copy of Usually. she didn't have the energy to vote today in the Junior and Reid added "The votes cast juniors living off-campus, more the hall rules. "It was an oversight or the consciousness to know what Senior class elections due to a today will determine the winner of than enough to alter the outcome of on our part," he said. was wrong." violation of the election rules last the senior class elections." Tuesday's voting. "The rules were there. I guess 
Friedan spoke of the plight of the Tuesday. Sophomore off-campus votes will Jerry Castellini, who defeated they've been there since Knute housewife who realized that some­Assistant Director of Student determine the two final tickets for Terry Frick in the senior class has. It was our mistake," Flynn thing was wrong. "that getting Activities John Reid said that the junior class election, and a election said, "I was told that we said. the shirts white was not enough." sophomore and junior off-campus run-off election will be held tomor­won the election and there was no Flynn also noted that the Senior Most were made to feel that residents did not get to vote row for those class officers he problem. After Student Activities Class officers will suggest a ''gene­something was wrong with them or because the off-campus ballot box stated. declared a winner, they decided to ral election committee, to supervise with their marriages. "She was at the Huddle was not open "all the Reid explained that the number take action." all elections which would be run by made to feel guilty. After all, a time it should have been." The of freshmen living off-campus is He noted that the decision to a Student Government office." He woman's purpose was to get. catch election rules provide that this not significant enough to change hold a special off-campus election hoped that such a committee could and trap her man, from nubility to ballot box remain open from 11 the order of finish in the sophomore would give "135 people the chance "standardize election procedures" senility." a.m. to 5 p.m. Reid explained that class elections, so no special elec­to choose the Senior officers.'' and provide consistent supervision 
Friedan said it was her own "The person responsible for the tion is needed. All freshmen may Castellini said the results of Tues­of elections. day's vote should not have been R~id said the "principle we are released if a special election was trying to uphold is that an election being considered. He pointed out is to express the will of a group of
House Democrats vote to lower 
that off-campus student are not people. It's unclear whether that fully aware of the close results. will has been expressed.'' 
Frick noted that he had no When off-campus residents were knowledge of the violation until not able to vote, the Student WASHINGTON [AP] -House voted to make room in its tentative Even as House Democrats were early Tuesday evening. Activities office, according to Reid, Democrats voted yesterday to re­financial plan for the year begin­debating the question, Treasury "John Reid said I had a legiti­"received some complaints, as did duce Social Security tax hikes that ning Oct. 1 for a S7.5 billion cut in Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal mate complaint ifI wanted to file it,'' the Student Government and go into effect next year and to use Social Security taxes. urged Congress not to change he stated. He added however that Ombudsman. We don't know what income tax revenues to save the Social Security taxes this year. he did not lodge a formal complaint number in which classes were 
Social Security tax increases 
The resolution adopted by the
retirement system from bankrupt­"We do not believe that there is and that Student Activities "took it involved.''
Democratic caucus does not specify 
cy. any urgent need in view of the out of our hands because it When the election committee
any dollar amounts but does put 
The 150 to 57 vote by the caucus Democrats on record as favoring president's income tax cut propos­involved other classes.'' discovered the violation, they als that this be done this year,"
is not binding on the regular "the use of general revenue funds 
Blumenthal said, referring to

legislative committees. But it puts to finance a portion of the Social pressure on the Democrats who Security system with appropriate ' Carter's proposal to partially offset 'The votes cast today
the Social Security tax hikes by

control and dominate those com­reductions in Social Security pay­mittees to push for the changes. roll taxes." 
reducing income taxes. 

will determine the winner
Democrats control the House by a 2 White House spokesman Jody
The caucus resolution calls on 
Powell also said the president

to 1 margin. 
Democratic members of the House opposes reopening the Social Sec­of the senior class elections.' 
Congress last year voted Social Ways and Means Committee to 
urity bill, saying ''He thinks it 

Security tax increases to bring in an prepare legislation as soon as would be a mistake to reopen an "I can see that it can conceivably attempted to contact the candidates additional S227 billion over the 10 possible. This legislation would 
. extremely complicated matter 

work in my favor," Frick said, involved. Unable to get in touchyears beginning in 1979. The determine how much of a reduction like this at this point." 
adding, "It's not extremely fair, with Frick or Castellini, they pro­incre"ses, aimed at keeping the in Social Security taxes would be 
Powell noted that the administra­but it's the most equitable way to ceeded with the election. 
systc 1 financially solvent, would made and how much general tion proposed using general treas­remedy an unfair situation.'' Later, before the votes werebe particularly high for employees treasury revenues would be shifted ury revenues to fund Social Secur­"I really don't think it's going to counted, the candidates were con­in the upper earnings brackets and to pay Social Security costs. 
ity programs last year but that 

make that much difference," he tactedand asked ifthey would abide for their employers. 
Despite the caucus action, any Congress rejected this approach, stated. 
by the vote despite the violation.
The caucus vote came one day change likeJy·faces oppositon from opting instead for the increased Class elections are organized and Castellini said he saw "no pro-
after the House budget committee several sources. payroll taxes. . run by the Office of Student IContlnued on page 4] 

Thursday, April 6, 1978
the observer 



r-News Briefs _____ 
J:=:::=========================== World 
Pirates rob refugee boat 
[AP] • Pirates attacked a refugee boat in the South China Sea, robbed the 29 Vietnamese on board and killed one of them, police said yesterday. The survivors, including several children, landed Tuesday near Bachok, 200 miles northeast of here, and told police they had escaped from Vietnam last Friday. About 4,000 Vietnamese refugees live in camps in northeastern Malaysia, where the government allows them to stay until they are placed in Western countries such as the United States. 
t=============================== National 


HEW proposes loan rules 
[AP] -The Department of Health, Education and Welfare is proposing new rules for its guaranteed student loan program in an effort to crack down on the multi-million dollar problem of defaults and to make more money available. Twenty-seven states or non-profit guarantee agencies now offer th~ loans. The federal government absorbs 80 percent of the losses, which totalled $151 million during fiscal 1977. 

Rizzo's crusade criticized 
(AP]· Two civic leaders urged Mayor Frank Rizzo on Wednesday to drop his proposed national crusade for white ethnic groups. The full-page newspaper ads were signed by Thacher Longstreth of the Chamber of Commerce, and John R. Bunting Jr., chairman of the First Pennsylvania Corp. The _statement c~lled on Rizz? "~~ a political leader, a man of engagmg pe_rsonahty, of great mtult_ive intelligence, and as a friend, to end th1s crusade, to resume bemg mayor of all the people." 

Weather 
There is an 80 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms today 
with partial clearing tonight. Sunny tomorrow. Highs today and 
tomorrow middle 60s. Lows tonight in the upper 40s. 



~On Campus Today _ _. 
thursday 3 pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 7, 10 pm 
"· 
7 pm 
7 pm 
8 pm 
8pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm friday 
12:15 pm 
The Observer 11 published Mon­dey through Frlcley except during exem end vecetlon periods. Tile Observer 11 published by the students of Not,. Deme end S.lnt M.,.YI College. Subscriptions mey be purdlesed for no per yeer (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Not,. Deme, lndlene 4US6. Second c1e11 post..• peld, Not,. O.me, lndlllfle, 4US6. 
The Observer Is • member of the AISOcleted Prell. All ,.pro­dudlon rtgl'ltl .,. ,.,erved. 
panel discussion, "facts of career life," presented · by janie becker, lawyer, kalamaros assoc.; pat Iindeman, salesperson, american yearbook; , elaine schenck, educator, south bend schools; & dr. barb slee, memorial hospital, sponsored by wow, staple­ton lounge, le mans. 
seminar, "free-ion yield in irradiated dielectric liquids & some associated problems," by dr. a. mozumber, sponsored by radiation lab., conference rm., rad. lab. 
poetry reading, by prof. ernest sandeen, sponsored by english dept. & nd press, nd art gallery. 
film series, "lancelot du lac," robert bresson, eng. aud., free admission. 
card party, south bend alumnae of smc, regina north 
lounge, tickets $2 at door. 
lecture, "life at the supreme court," by prof. ken ripple, question & answer period to follow, sponsored by howard hall academic/cultural com­mission, howard hall. 
lecture, by richard hunt, contemporary sculptor from chicago, sponsored by art gallery, nd art gallery. 
second scene/drama, "the maids," by jean genet, directed by pat fanning, sponsored by nd/smc theatre, washington hall. 
recital, arthur lawrence, harpsichord, smc little 
theatre. • 
lecture, by mary heslin, commissioner of consumer 
affairs, state of connecticut, sponsored by wow, carroll hall, smc, call 284-4176 for tickets. 
senior recital, by vocalists carol kersten & joan martel, sponsored by music dept., 115 crowley. 
biology travel series, "drought-prone areas of the 
indian subcontinent," by basil o'leary, sponsored by 
biology dept., 278 galvin aud. 


Senate sets Apri/18 for last Panama Canal treaty vote 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The Senate set a date for its final showdown vote on the Panama Canal treaty yesterday, while deal­ing treaty foes an unexpectedly sharp defeat on a move to give the House an equal voice in the issue. 
Leaders of the pro and anti-treaty factions agreed to put the second of the two pacts to a vote on April 18. That means the Senate will have only nine working days to consider amendments and reserva­tions before taking a final vote on the issue. 
Previously the Senate had set a deadline of April 26 for the ratification test. But with the 
debate already two months old, Senate leaders and anti-treaty stra­tegists acknowledged a need to bring the issut.-to a conclusion. 
On a surprisingly wide margin of 58 to 37, the Senate killed an amendment by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, that would have allowed 
ERRATUM 
In the first cut of the cheerlead­ing tryouts Monday night, the number of female candidates was reduced to 12 not 24, as reported in Tuesday's Observer. No cuts were made for men. The Observer regrets the error. 


ERRATUM 
Notre Dame does not have an exchange program with the London Business School, as reported in yesterday's Observer, nor have any Notre Dame MBA students attend­ed LBS. 
Dr. David Norborn is an adjunct professor LBS teaching courses in the ND MBA program. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editor: Sherry Mummert layout Staff: Bart Corsaro, Tom Monroe, Tim Hamilton Editorial •layout: Greg Hedges Features layout: Kevin Paul­son, Brzhob The Amazing Sports layout: Greg "Jour­nal" Solman & "RUFF" Typists: Stacy Weaver, Katie Brehl, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Marian Ulciny Copy Reader: Jack Pizzolato Ad layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Kevin McAl­pine 
need resumes in a hurry? 

I 

insty·prints 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 

rag bond 

25 -8.5 x 11 only $2.65 203 N. Main Downtown So Bend 289-6977 
DD UISTOmUDI 

.IILJ. CLD'BURBal 
"SEMI­



!DDOB" 

the House to vote on the treaty, on disposal of U.S. property requires grounds the Congress to approve approval of both the House and any disposal of U.S. property. Senate. 
Later it rejected another amend-He also said the vote demon­ment by Sen. James Allen, D-Aia., strated that the Senate lacks the to guarantee the jobs of U.S. two-thirds majority needed to ratify employees of the Panama Canal the treaty, which would turn the Co. until retirement age. That vote canal over to Panama by the year was 56 to 37. 2000. 
Despite the decisive edge by Pro-treaty forces disagreed. which his proposal lost, Hatch Assistant Majority Leader Alan claimed a "major victory" on a test Cranston, D-Calif., said the out­of strength for the treaty. Hatch come left him more confident of said it showed that more than a victory than he was at a comparable third of the Senate recognized the point during last month's debate on "serious constitutional question" the treaty guaranteeing future raised by his amendment -whether neutrality of the canal. 
F • ~~ k t SM-c
r1eu an S pea S a 
[Continued from page 1] n::Jan." 
"Phyllis Schlafly was an agent of the John Birch Society before she knew she was a woman. She went to a law school which never would have admitted her had it not been for the women's movement," Frie­dan stated. 
Friedan't mention of Marabelle Morgan, author of The Total Woman, brought laughter from the audience. "Maribelle Morgan is nPt just a joke," she somberly slated and then proceeded to summarize the Total Woman philo­sophy." 
"Before your husband gets home from work, you wrap yourself up in saran wrap, and ostrich feathers. then you meet him at the door and tell him what a great, big, wonder­ful man you think he is, even if you 
think  he's  a  schmuck,"  Friedan  
joked.  
"But  what  the  Total  Woman  

courses don't teach you is what to do if he runs off with a younger 

COLLEGE 

DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant rep· resents the mark of quality and acceptance in today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not giveyourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt Univer­sity's lawyer's Assistant Program which is fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 745 graduates representing over 160 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, Trusts and Wills -litigation-Real Estate and Mortgages-Employee Benefit Plans*-or become a Generalist*. 
Over 225 law firms, banks, corporations and govern­mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
SESSIONS 
0 Spring Day/February 13-May 5, 1978 0 Spring (vening!March 14-August 26, 1978 0 Summer Day/June 12-September 1, 1978 0 Fall Day/September 25-December 15, 1978 0 Fall Evening/September 12, 1978-March 3, 1979 
*evening program only. 

----------SEND TODAY ----------· Lawyer's Assistant Program IN-NO ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) 341-3882 
430 South Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60605 
Please send me information on Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. 0 Spring Day Program 0 Spring Evening Program 0 Summer Day Program 0 Felt Day 0 Fall Evening 
Nem,.,_______ 
Address 

City State__ Zip__ --­
Roosevelt UniversitY. edmits students on the basis of indi­vidual merit and wothout regard to race. colOr, creed, sex, or physical handicap. 

~-------------------------J 
chick, drops dead from a heart attack or loses his job," she noted. 
Neverthless, Friedan is not dis­couraged in the least. "Mother­hood is a choice and men are also changing their ideas about women. Husbands now encourage their wives to go back to school." 
Friedan warned, however, "the ERA must be ratified by 1979, or we're in danger of losing every­thing. You have to go out there and work for ratification in those states that are holding back. And when you look back at all the changes that have taken place in the yea~s of the movement, you'll know that you had a part in it." 
'Anything Goes' atSMC 
There will be a local version of "Anything Goes" at 8 p.m. tomor­row in the Angela Athletic Facility. This event will pit Saint Mary's athletes versus Notre Dame ath­letes in obstacle and relay contests. 


GRADUATES 



----.~~~~--------~~------~--------------------~ 

"jazz in the Nazz" last night featured a preview of the collegiate jazz festival by the Notre Dame Jazz Band and Jazz Combo. [Photos by Ken McAlpine] 





Controversy dominates Gryp's year as director 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 

After a month of preparation, sophomore Bill Roche quietly assumed the directorship of the Student Union (SU) last Saturday. Roche, a member of the Union since his freshman year. had worked in various SU commissions and was serving as assistant ser­vices commissioner when he appli­ed for the director's position. He was nominated for Student Union director on Feb. 20 by the organiza­tion's own five-member Steering Committee. Six days later, at a Sunday night meeting of the Stu­dent Government's Board of Com­missioners, Roche's nomination was quickly approved. In the month between his appointment and assuming office last week, Roche has had an opportunity to closely observe the Student Union at work and to carefully select his new staff. In all, it was as smooth a transition as the drafters of the Student Government's new consti­tution could have hoped for. 
"Bill will do an excellent job," former SU Director Tom Gryp commented, adding "No one should have to go through what I went through to get in." Of all those who could admire the ease with which Roche became Student Union director, none could appreci­ate it more than GrypA year ago he was the center of one of the biggest mix-ups in recent Student Union history. 
Stormy debate 

On March 30. 1977, the Student Union Appointment Board met to select a new director. The Board then consisted of four members of the Student Union, outgoing and incoming members of the Student Government, a Hall President's Council representative and the director of Student Activities. At the time, representatives of the Student Union and Student Government leaders were locked in a stormy debate centering around the Union's independence. 
On the fifth ballot, after long hours of debate, Gryp was appoint­ed SU director. He had been North Quad campaign manager for the incoming student body president, Dave Bender, and had served ont the Keenan Hall Judicial Board. But Gryp had no previous experi­ence with the Student Union. 
Tempers flared, and the next day, when the votes were retabu­lated, it was discovered that there had been a miscount and that Gryp had not carried a two-thirds major­ity. On April 3, Bender called together the members of the Appointment Board to clarify the vote. Yet on a second vote Gryp was defeated. When outgoing Student Body President and Board chairman Mike Gassman disquali­fied the second vote, there was an uproar. 
Members of the Student Union accused the student government of "political maneuvering." In an Observer opinion column, one offi­cer of the Student Union equated Bender with a political party boss· who doled out patronage to those who aided him in his campaign. 
On April 6, the Student Govern­ment's Board of Commissioners passed Gryp's nomination. The 

SU plans summer storage 
by Andy Segovia 

Student Union Director Bill 
Roche Tuesday night announced 
plans for a new summer storage 
program. Under the new plan the 
hall presidnets will be responsible 
for summer storage in their res­
pective dorms. 
Last year the Student Union used 
privately owned storage space be­
cause major firms no longer desir­
ed to undertake the project. ''The 
larger firms shy away because of 
law 'suits, lack of facilities and 
minimal profits," Roche stated. 
"Last year's operation proved in­
effective. There was a substantial 
amount of damages and losses." 
The new program calls for the 
hall presidents to estimate the 
volume of storage from their hall. 
This information would be used to 
reserve space in a self-lock storage 
establishment. Hall presidents 
WSND am 640 
Presents... 
Tonight, from 

8:00pm -10:00 pm 
JAZZ FEST JUDGES PRORLE 

wo hours of music by this years 

Jazz Fest Judges 
ND's Progressive Sound 
would then draw up a price list based on the cost of the space and the size of the various articles. 
''The plan allows for the dorms to make some profit form the operation,'' Roche commented. 
The suggested date for moving the articles to the storage area is the Saturday before finals. The stored articles are to be picked up and returned to campus in the fall. 
''The preferable date for the return is the day before registration day" Roche said. Volunteers will . be recruited from the dorms to aid in the loading and unloading of the materials. 
"Under this system many of the problems of last year's program will be alleviated", Roche continu­ed. "The new plan will cut cost and eliminate many of the damage problems since the students will be actively involved in the process." 
Roche stressed that it is impor­tant for the hall presidents to begin making arrangements for the program. "It is urgent that they start now since the semester is rapidly coming to an end." 
Students interested in utilizing the new storage program should contact their hall president in the near future. 




HOWARD HALL 
presents 


LIFE AT THE SUPREME COURT 
an informal lecture by 

PROF KEN RIPPLE THURSDAY, APRIL 6 
7:00PM 
m Howard Hall 

same day, an Observer editorial noted that ''the controversy has stirred up suspicion and ill-will on , both sides. They did not disappear with the Board's vote and won't until Tom Gryp and the Student Union find they can work toge­ther... Tom Gryp is going to have to prove that he can do the job." The big question for most students was 
still "Who is Tom Gryp?" 
Surprisingly, though, the Stu­

dent Union under Gryp proved to 
be a very unified and cohesive 
group. There were controversies, 
but they were mostly external and 
directed at the Union as a whole. · 
On April 28, after appointing a 

new movie commissioner, Gryp 
hinted that he would eliminate the, 
Cinema 78 film series, a group 
which, under past Student Unions, ' 
had promoted and exhibited note­
worthy cultural films. The announcement drew strong criti­cism and, though the Cinema film series was eventually abandoned. Gryp negotiated an informal agree­ment about cultural films in Sep­tember with the then newly estab­lished Notre Dame Film Society. The difficulties over ftlm selection have continued throughout the year, despite the appointment of an assistant movie commissioner for cultural films. Members of the ND Film Society, as late as last March, attacked the Student Union's film 
policies. 
A second major controversy involving the Student Union exploded in late September of last year. Gryp reserved 32 USC football tickets for his staff out of a total of 500 which were scheduled 
[continued on page a·] 





'CLEATS' 
Wear yQur stickers today 
3:00 pm to 6:00 pm 

Daily 6am-8pm Sunday 8:30am -4pm 277-5511 1 Block N of Auten Rd 51277 US 31 N, ~..,._....,...,.....,...,...,....,....,....,Sunday Dinners 8:30am -4pm 
Assorted Sandwiches Homemade Pies 
Homemade Soups Daily Specials· 
Friday -All You Can Eat Fish $2.25 
Try our 'Huge' and 'Super' Breakfasts 
.IJIJ--•McKenna -Roohan___.._ Student Government 

HAPPY HOUR 
ndecker & McSorley's .soc each
16 oz. Pabst  
Place Day Time  Nickie's Friday 3:00-6:00  

Thursday, April 6, 1978
the observer 





Sadat calls for more flexibility in negotiations 
CAIRO* Egypt [AP] . Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin "should be more flexible" in peace negotiations, President Anwar Sadat said yesterday. He added that Defense Minister Ezer Weiz­man. seen as Begin's growing political rival, is welcome to return to Cairo ''whenever there are new ideas.'' 
The Egyptian leader spoke to an international group of jounalists and academics here for a confer­ence on news exchanges with the Third World. 
He was asked whether Begin personally was regarded as respon­sible for the current deadlock in the Israeli-Egyptian peace process. 
··well. I don't want to interfere in others' domestic problems," Sadat replied. "What I feel is this · Mr. Begin should be more flexible, and I told this to Weizman when he visited me last time. I don't feel like making any comment other than this." 
Israelis protest 

The Egyptian president also said, as he had Sunday, that the estimated 30,000 Israelis who dem­onstrated in Tel Aviv over the weekend for Begin to make more concessions to the Arabs were "wise." 
Formal talks between the two nations were suspended more than two months ago, although Weiz­man visited Egypt last week and met twice with Sadat. The defense minister is expected to return next week. 
Israeli spokesmen said Weizman brought new proposals last week, but the Egyptians said there had been no progress. 
The stalemate centers on Egypt's insistence that Israel with­draw from all occupied Arab land and allow the Palestinians to determine their own future. Israel rejects the idea of total withdrawal and Begin has offered home rule 
with a continued Israeli military presence for the Palestinians of the Gaza Strip and West Bank of the 
Jordan River. 
Also yesterday, Foreign Minins­ter Moshe Dayan returned to Israel from a three-day visit to Romania and Mideast talks with President Nicolae Ceausescu which Dayan said yielded no concrete results. 


Other developments 
In other Middle East develop­ments: -A symbolic force of 30 Lebanese national police entered the port city 

of Tyre, a Palestinian enclave in Israeli-occupied s_outh Lebanon, and joined French paratroopers of the United Nations peace-keeping force in patrolling coastal areas. It was the first regular Lebanese force to enter Tyre in three years
and its deployment, officials in Beirut said, was an attempt to start restoring state control of the war 
torn region. 
-In Jerusalem, Lt. Gen. Morde­chai Gur met privately with a parliamentary committee to report on plans for evacuating the 500­square-mile sector of Lebanon in­vaded by Israeli forces beginning March 15. The cease-fire Israel declared March 21 was reported holding, with a single morning incident of firing between Israeli and Palestinian guerrilla positions. But independent observers said little sign was visible 'of the thinning-out of occupation forces Israel claimed it began more than a week ago. 

Class elections 
[Continued from page 1] 
blems's with that agreement, pro­viding that Frick concurred. Frick declined to make a decision, noting the violation was the responsiblity of Student Activities. 
"I've heard a lot about this agreement, but candidates don't have the right to do that. People have a right to cast their votes," Reid said. 
Sophomore elections will be held today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 6 p.m. in the residence halls. Freshmen living off campus may vote from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Huddle. 

"tve got Pabst Blue Ribbon on my mind.~' 




The University's ruling against lofts is one of the new room construction regulations with which students are dissatisfied. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 

Carter drafting ~get-tough' approach to handle inflation 

WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter. beset by a falling dollar. rising prices and large oil imports, is drafting what is described as a new, get-tough approach to con­trolling inflation. 
He told congressional leaders at a breakfast meeting yesterday that he will take a larger personal role in lobbying for his energy bill. which he said is crucial to controlling oil imports and inflation, according to some who attended the meeting. 
And he expressed what was described as "hostility" to the multi-billion-dollar farm subsidy bill being considered by Congress, which he considers inflationary. White House spokesman Jody Powell said Carter considers the bill"unacceptable." 
Powell said inflation control pro­posals have been "the major focus of activity" in the White House since the president returned from a four-nation trip to South America and Africa on Monday night. 
He said Carter will deliver a speech sometime next week about "inflation, the dollar and energy." 
Powell said the president prob­ably has not yet decided on all details of his anti-inflation pro­gram. One of the things under consideration is a proposal to hold down the size of this year's annual federal pay increase. 
House Democratic leader James Wright said after the breakfast meeting that the president's pro­gram, will include tougher anti­inflation measures than any taken by the administration so far. 
Wright described Carter as ex­tremely concerned about the infla­tion rate, officially projected to be from 6 percent to 6.5 percent this year, but which some administra­tion officials privately concede could turn out closer to 7 percent. 
''The president believes, and I 
~SCOTTSDALE 
Scottsdale Mall Telephone 291-4583 
Anne Bancroft Shirley MacCialne Times 

2:15-.4:30-7:00-9:15 
· Daily 

Thursday, April 6, 1978 
the observer 
5 




~Fire codes prompt petition 
think most of us believe, that our failure to achieve a solution to the energy problem is the one thing that more than anything else is causing a drop in the value of the dollar and thus impacting the American people with inflation,'' Wright said. 
According to this view, Ameri­cans are importing so much oil that dollars are flowing out of the country at a record rate: $4.5 billion in February alone. This has contributed to a sharp drop in the value of the dollar abroad-down 15 percent against Swiss and nearly 20 percent against the Japanese yen during the last year. 
Selection of cabinet nears completion 
by Kevin Richardson and I never even met during the 
campaign," he added. 

Student Body President Andy No one particular group of McKenna said there has been "an students is being recruited for encouraging response" in the ap­cabinet positions, McKenna com­plication process for his yet-to-be mented. "We're looking for both announced cabinet. organizers and activists who have a 
Some of the cabinet positions vision where Student Government have already been filled, he said, should be going," he said. and he will announce his entire The criteria by which applicants cabinet on Monday. He noted that will be judged is two-pronged. approximately 65 people had appli­"We want to match the goals and ed for various cabinet positions. duties of the position with the 
"I was pleased with the response person's ability," McKenna ex­for the new cabinet positions too," plained, "while examining the Me Kenna added. Of the new person's ability, experience, and positions created by McKenna, ideas on where his position should Social Life. Security, and Career be heading." He stated that Development received the heaviest lengthly interviews are being con­application. ducted of all applicants and ''we 
''A real strength from diverse hope to be as thorough as possible student knowledge and opinion on in selecting cabinet members." various subjects will produce a very McKenna added that he wished high calibre cabinet,'' McKenna to thank all those students who took stated. Several of the applicants time to apply and interview with were people "who Mike Roohan him for the cabinet positions. 


~RIVER PARK ~TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th 
Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 288-8488 Telephone 2q9-9090
1 2 
Mon. thru, Fri. 7&9:15 Show times: Sat. & Sun. 2:10, 4:25, 6 :.45, 9:05 1 :00-3:00-5:00-7 :00~9 :15 
by Sue Wuetcher 
The University's proposed action pertaining to lofts and room con­struction has metwith some student opposition. 
Mike Gilroy, a sophomore from Dillon has been circulating a peti­tion that expresses the students' dissatisfaction. So far, 350 people have signed the petition. 
"I started the petition basically to see if anyone agreed with me," Gilroy said. "If I need more signatures I'll get them. Right now the rules are the issue." 
Gilroy claimed that the adminis­tration is inconsistent. "They've banned lofts, yet many of the 

Price to head Summer Housing 
Edmund T. Price, official liaison between Saga Food Services and Notre Dame, will now expand his duties to include Director for Sum­mer Housing. He replaces Fr. Gregory Green, who became Assis­tant Vice-President for Student Affairs earlier this year. 
Price was director of food and housing at the University of Cali­fornia-Davis, and also directed food and housing for a private Memphis Company. 
Duties of the Summer Housing Director include hiring of housing workers and staff, proper account­ing, and the allocation of residen­tial space and assigning of all undergraduate halls. The office is 
also  responsible  for  issuing  a  
spring  calendar  and  a  housing  
summary.  

Price characterized his new du­ties as ''very interesting with lots of new challenges. I look forward to it." 



;~1~1
.•. 
•'•

:::: f Show Times: 
:::: 1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 lll\.... 
mattresses that students sleep on are not fire safe," he remarked. "My dorm doesn't even have a functional fire alarm.'' 
Paneling, lofts, and extension cords are symptoms of overcrowd­ed conditions, Gilroy noted. "Stu­dents wouldn't use these things if there were fewer people,'' he said. "The administration is fighting off the symptoms rather than correct­ing the overcrowding." 
There are many alternatives that could be acted upon, Gilroy stated. 
I I 

I a a LIBRARY a a 
LARGEST DRAFT IN TOWN 7 _. midnite THURSDAY 7 & 7 special 501 
; I 

7 _. 10 II 
I 

-----------------------------~ 

SCOTTSDALE MAll 

FREE!!! 

Soft drink ·with 3 items· e TACOS • eAB'I TACQ 
• 
IIIRIIOS , TMAliS 

• 
EICIIlAtAS • TACO tol 

• 
TOtfAtoS •IJAI TAC 

• 
IAIHQ"I TACO 

• 
SPAIIISI lOT ... 

• 
ClllSIBIIIEI 




"We carry a line of 

egetarian Foods. 
One such alternattve would be to require any room with a loft to have a smoke detector. 
Gilroy added that he hasn't fully researched the issue yet, but he stressed that he would not talk to the administration until he had some concrete proposals. 
Gilroy said that he will be working in conjunction with Stud­ent Body President Andy McKenna's committee that is in­vestigating the new fire regula­tions. 
I 
I 
\ 



~ ~ The Observer 








P.O. Box Q
.m independent newspaper serving 
the notre dame and saint mary's 
community 

The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
A revolution

reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the 

lives!

Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions ~d letters are the views of their authors. Column space ili available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying 
Dear Editor, opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
The following is a comment on a column which appeared in the Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief 
March 29 Observer. Steve Odland Managing Editor 
Take comfort, Randy Cahiola: aJohn Calcutt Executive Editor revolution lives! No, it does notBarb Langhenry Executive Editor thrive at Notre Dame, but as youRosemary Mills Editorial Editor and I have known for some yearsPhil Cackley Copy Editor now that reality barely exists at Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor ND, let alone revolution. The war Ann Gales News Editor which sparked so much youthfulMike Lewis News Editor rebellion in the late 1960's is over,Diane Wilson News Editor but the battle goes on. True, it Ray O'Brien Sports Editor does appear that our people are 

Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
flocking to places like Cinnabar's to have a good time, to places like GM Box Q 

to get a job, and to other institu­Notre Dame, 
tions of conformism to live out their lives; but what happened within usInd. 46556 six and rmore: years ago is quite irreversible. The establishmentThursd;ay, April 6, 1978 

sent us to Vietnam, but they will never send us to Panama (thoughseriously folks~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! total political-social morons like 
Ronald Reagan will do their best to 
try). 
But leaving future struggles

I 
r I Life is Unfair aside, there is much in evidence today that our society has taken different paths that that outlined.__.._iiiiiiiiiiiiiii....__.iiiiiiart buchwa I d 
for us by the powers that be: 

Washington _ Every city, county and state government is trying to think up new ways of raising tax dollars. All the obvious things have already been taxed such as income, cigarettes, gasoline, park­ing, liquor, everything you buy in a store etc., etc., and it's almost impossible to come up with some­thing new that doesn't already have a tax on it. 
I was therefore very impressed with a new revenue-raising idea proposed by Merriweather Sample, who found something to tax that nobody else had thought of. In America today, this is the equival­ent of discovering a new constell­at ion in the sky or a virus without a 
name or a noncarcinogenic spray that will kill fire ants. Sample revealed his plan at a secret meeting of the board of supervisors of Bleeding County. 
"Gentlemen, I think I have it. I propose we put a tax on jogging." There was a look of surprise from everyone in the room. 
"Jogging?" someone said. 
Sample continued, "There are thousands of joggers running all around our county right now and it 
isn't costing them one cent. 1 say they've been getting a free ride for too long." 
One nervous supervisor said, "But how can we tax men and women for just running around?" 
"It's simple. They're using county roads and sidewalks to jog. Do you realize the damage they're doing every time they clomp on the asphalt or the pavement?" Sample said. 
"I didn't know runners do dam­
age." another supervisor said. 
"Take a walk around and see for yourself. There are cracks every­where, and they were made by pounding feet. There is just so much abuse a pavement can take from a 200-pound man and a 110-pound woman. If they just ran 
in their bare feet it would be one thing, but most of them wear marijuana pervades the campuses sneakers and running shoes. and social scenes of even the above We're not just talking about one or thirty crowd; sexual freedom has two people. There are thousands of permeated our ranks enough to 
joggers out there destroying our make our fathers the last generation streets and sidewalks and someone to take thepope seriously; politics has to pay for it." 
in America is now taken with a 

A lady supervisor said, "If we grain of cynicism as our "leaders" start taxing people for jogging spend most of their time avoiding there will be a terrible uproar. all the important issues; and the Many people consider it the only· Rolling Stones, CSN and Grateful free thing they're permitted to Dead still fill the largest stadiums. 
There is no lack of spunk and

do." 
Sample scoffed at the comment. vigor among the ranks of our "Joggers get pleasure out of people today --just a lack of running, just as other people get concern for issues which do not pleasure from drinking beer and actively stare us in the face and smoking cigarettes. No one tells affect our lives (such as the recent them they HAVE to jog. But if coal miners struggle and the thrid 
they're going to do it, and they feel continued failure of western policy it gives them a lift, let them pay for to sponsor egalitarian development of the third world ....). Perhaps we
it." "What kind of tax did you haye in need another catalyst to get our people together, though the need
mind?" 
"I think at the beginning we could for such speaks ill of our dedication require them to buy a license for $5 
to the revolution. In any event, I have the distinct feeling that

a year. It would be printed on cardboard so they could wear it on despite tyhe attempts of Notre 
the back of their running suits. Then we could add a surcharge of one cent for each mile they've 
c • f st d t I t 
run... 

a m paIQn 0 r U en npU 
"Suppose they downplay how 
many miles they've run?" 
Sample grinned, "That's the beauty of it. Most joggers love to lie about how far they've run. I In a concerned effort to engage never met one yet who didn't students' ideas in Student Gover­exaggerate the number of miles he nment, Mike Roohan and I are completed in a day. Every jogger initiating a Campaign for Student will gladly pay extra money just to Input. This project will involve a impress another runner·'' variety of activities throughout the 
"It might work," a supervisor month of April. It is geared, first to said. inform Student Government of new Sample hit the table, "Running ways ·in which we can serve the for free is the last big tax loophole student body; and secondly to in America, and it's our job to close inform the community of the goals it." of the McKenna -Roohan adminis-
One supervisor asked, "What do tration. we tell our jogging friends when The campaign itself will be they say it's unfair that they have kicked off with a Happy Hour at to pay to exercise?" Nickie's from 2 to 6 pm this Friday. 
"Just tell them 'Life is unfair."' Mike and I think it is important that 
(c) 1978 Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
Dame President (who is not so wonder if the author of that much a fascist as he is a person demented column would like to divorced from student reality) his evaluate Duck Williams defensive band of Trustees, and the anti-de­prowess on the basketball court by
mocratic set of authoritarians cur­engaging in a game of one-on-one rently playing the role of rectors in with him?) our halls , even the Notre Dame The double-meaning cuts on Bill student body wouldn't put up with Laimbeer and Bruce Flowers were any military action in Panama or not only cruel but they weren't the accidental election of Reagan really funny either. I, for one, am 
to the Presidency. Take faith, Mr. tired of hearing about Laimbeer's Cahiola --we won't get fooled past academic woes. He made a again. Well, maybe the young mistake, which he does admit, he republicans will be, but not us. paid for it and it's over. You really can run a topic into the ground, you
JOHN A. KENWARD know. 

What I would suggest is this. Before you start pulling skeletons out of other people's closets, clean
An Absurder out your own. Of course, I expect your rebuttal to my letter will be that "the column was all in fun." 
I'm sorry, but I see nothing funny 
Complaint 

about jurting other people. And that, Mr. Mystery Author is about all your attempt to be funny mayDear Edltor, have accomplished. It certainlyI would like to call your attention wasn't very funny. 
to, what I feel is one of _the most Frank LaGrotta distasteful pieces of journalism I have ever read in the Observer -or Editor's Note: As the Absurder any other publication for that masthead states, "The purpose of matter: The column titled, "Surg­the Absurder Is to provide humor­ery" in the Absurder issue of April ous satire to its readers In the spirit 
1.· 
of April Fool's Day and to poke funI must point out that some of the at particular campus Institutions"low blows" leveled at certain and personalities." We apologizemembers of the Notre Dame com­If your idea of humor does notmunity were uncalled for, uncouth coincide with ours.
and defaming. May I elaborate? 
1) Insinuating that Tom Des­mond's weekly column, "Strat­egy" is boring. 
I think this is wholly a matter of opinion. I admit that Tom's analysis may be a little deep for those who know nothing about sports, but for those of us who do, we welcome the inside · that the column provides. if the Observer editorial board felt ..-..-....-..vt "Strategy" was boring, why didn't they do something about it? (Don't tell me the Observer advocates printing boring material!!!) In any case, you have no right to insult an exceptionally well-written column or an exceptionally good writer. 
2) The slams on the athletic department personnel were totally uncalled for. 
Digger Phelps took a vacation in the first half of the Duke game? Really now, don't you think that's a little harsh? And of course there were the twisted remarks directed at a few basketball players. (I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
f 11£1-L, A5 I UN-M/lY YEA!<, IE Pf?£58/15 tt VICTfR, HaJ/0 IA1?STlWIJ IT; AII.VIRDs 7D 7HJSE NATIONS HERE, 7i4K£-A l..lJa(! • 7JIE J.4M5 A 'THIS IIJMAN IT'51He 8/lA!N-IIHJ SHfXAI 1HE MOST IM-IT'S AlL &XPlAINCIJ IN CARL C4KTE:R. 7HATS ' t >-tte/Gifl5/l/JVW)S CHilD CF 11/E PROE.+fENT IN FfKT}(':RJN6 THIS JUHfT/3 HOIJSE BRO-~ 7HE MOST C" t 
t ~ ==~ 'IF~~ =:'lrt~ :SCV::%':/s'J::[: ~~ QJ~ '< t
t m tvArr \ ' " Qf/ALtRCATiavs ro.. " \ ~ ~-~ 
, m ·· ~ t t ~ ~ t 
t 8 a. t t ~ : 


t . I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
andy mckenna 
Student Government sponsor this first event in a lighter social environment. Other activities in-elude the formation of the Council of Communication. The Council will serve to make Student Govern­mentmore attentive to the needs of the individual students. Mike and I will, in the weeks ahead personally appear at individual halls to ac­quaint ourselves with the problems specific to each hall. 
A student survey will be adminis­tered in the latter part of the month dealing with many of the issues before us. Two newsletters per month will be published to keep people posted on the progress ot the campaign. Finally, the findings of all activities and the goals of the new Student Government will be summed up in a presentation to the Hall Presidents' Council at the end of the month. 
The Campaign for Student Input is not seen as an activity to solve all problems for Student Government, or to insure its productivity in the year ahead. However, Mike and I feel it is important that our first step be aimed at bringing us closer to the students and at seeking their thoughts about Student Govern­ment. We encourage all students to contact us personally throughout the year if they feel Student Government is ignoring the needs of an individual or the community as a whole. (Andy McKenna ­6111; Mike Roohan-7414). 
Dates for the achvttles of .the. Campaign for Student Input are as follows: 
April 7 McKenna-Roohan Happy Hour April 10 First meeting of the Council of Communication April 9-22 SBP and SBVP Hall appearances April 20 Administration of Stu­dent Survey April 25 s·tatcmenl to the Campus Address at HPC 
----------------------------~----~~~~------------------------------~----------------------------· 
Thursday, April 6, 1978 
the observer 
7

The Notre Dame Person 


Before the Deluge: McKenna/Roohan 

The office bore all of the characteristics of change. Filing cabinets occupied seats on the sofa; a tape recorder hid behind a bookshelf; papers,books, boxes and assor­ted other items lie haphazardly on the single desk. Andy McKenna, nattily dressed in a beige suit and wing-tipped shoes, reflected nothing of his chaotic surroundings. 
"I guess there are several reasons for the campaign," remarked McKenna, Notre Dame's recently elected student body president. ''The challenge of the job and all of its responsibilities was part of it," he continued, "plus the chance to use the many resources of the campus. I also saw a great opportunity for my own personal growth." 
The third of seven children, McKenna spent his formative years in Long Beach, Indiana, a small community tucked into the northwest corner of the Hoosier state. He now resides in Winnetka, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, where his father is president of the Schwartz Paper Company, a nation­wide industrial paper distributor, a mem­ber of the board of directors. 
McKenna an accountmg maJor with thoughts of going to law school, feels that even though "there is so much involved, more work than anyone realizes, there is a definite organizational challenge as presi­dent to model the resources available to get s'>mething done." 
"The office itself has many meanings," McKenna said. "The idea of the leadership role, the amount of attention, and the challenge to handle the attention. And it is a vehicle to make changes," he continued. ''Although in the next twelve months, you won't see any dramatic changes, we can get things started. In any educational institution, changes come a­bout slowly, and even more slowly at conservative institutions like Notre Dame. • 
Although specific goals are hard to forecast, McKenna stated, "I want people to feet that our administration was respons­ible to student needs, both as a group and as individuals. I also want to make students aware of the social issues that are 
'happening and will be happening in the coming year." 
Specifically, McKenna feels there are certain priority areas for his administration to pursue. Included in these areas are a follow-through of the LaFortune Student Center renovation, scheduled to begin this summer; an examination, evaluation, and recommendation of fire regulations; im­provement of student-faculty relations; reviews of the pass/fail option and the am/pm examination policy; a course evaluation booklet; and a career develop­ment office. 
In contrast to the cluttered office and business-like appearance of McKenna, student body vice-president Mike Roohan relaxed in an orderly office by reclining his chair and resting his sneaker-clad feet on a relatively clear desk. 
"I want the student government to be 
recognized as a functioning body, " 
Roohan said, "and I want to change the 
students' attitudes about the offices. I 
want to make students aware of what is 
going on. If we can do that," he explained, 
"I think we'll get much more student 
participation, just because of the caliber of 
people here." 
Roohan is a pre-professional science 
major from Saratoga Springs, New York, a 
place known for its mineral baths and the 
oldest stakes horserace in the United 
States. He comes from a family of leaders. 
His father was a student body president 
and two of his brothers have been their 
college class presidents. 
Strong family political inclination wasn't 
the reason for the campaign, though; rather 


it was the chaJJenge of the. job. ·"I also 
have a great deal of respect for Andy and 
what Itt: did for the junior class," added 
Roohan. 

Besides his studies, Roohan was presid­
ent and treasurer of St. Ed's his junior and 
sophomore years, respectively and has 
played for the ND rugby club for the past 
three years, "because," Roohan said, "I 
enjoy the people and the sport itself." 
Roohan feels that as vice president, he will be the foreman of the McKenna administration, following through on ass­igned projects, working as executive coordinator with the cabinet, and dealing with the government commissioners. 
Roohan's main concern as vice-president is the. social life at Notre Dame. "Too much ofthe social life here revolves around liquor, and that's wrong," he commented. "We need to get more students involved and the only way to do that is with an influx of new ideas that are responsible to the student needs," Roohan added. 
' ~'lotre Dame is too much of a nice place to be from and not such a nice place to be," remarked Roohan. "A reason for going to college is to learn how to associate with people," he continued, "and it doesn't happen enough here. That's what I really want to impmve." 
..................................................................................... 
The Turning Point 
Arthur Laurent's The Turning Point is an incredibi:Y beautiful, sensitive film. • It is about the choice every woman must make that of giving 190 percent to a career or live the domestic role. It is-the story of two friends (Anne Bancroft and Shirley Mac­Laine), who, after a twenty year separa­tion, meet to answer the question, "Who is better off {or the role they've chosen?" The answer that the ftlm gives should be of interest to everyone -male and female ­because it is an insight into not just the unique situation of women, but the whole human experience. The answer that the film gives is "Neither". Nor are the women any worse for their choice. This message comes through in the form of a pleasant story line and a marvelous lj.isplay of acting by Bancroft and-MacLaine that earned it 11 Academy Award nominations. On the surface, The Turning Point is about a confrontation between two friends ­one who quit the ballet to get married and one who went on to become the star of the 
Two Ladies and A Choice 
show -20 years after the decision. Laurent, who both wrote and co-produced the movie, uses The American Ballet Company and Michel Baryshnikov as the backdrop. What results are several magnificent scenes, aided by exceptional cinematic work, that heighten one's sense of the ballet's grace and splendor: That is how the movie is beautiful. It is sensitive when it explores the emotions of its ·two female leads and examines the bond of friendship that allows them, even after 20 years, to fight with each other, scream at each other, laugh and cry with each other and finally realize together that the roles they have chosen have their own separate benefits and limitations. Neither of their roles is perfectly satisfying because in «<.a~h , there are sacrifices to be made. Bancroft, as Emma, realizes that while she has the glamor associated with a Manhattan base and a starring role, she cannot have the children and security of her friend DeeDee. 
DeeDee, (played by MacLaine), on the 
? 



daue gill 

other hand, feels imprisoned by her Oklahoma City domesticity and is deeply troubled by her nagging self-doubt. CouJd she have become as big a star as Emma? What would life had been like then? 
Amelia, the daughter with whom DeeDee was pregnant at the time of her split with the company, is quite a ballet prodigy in her o\vn right. She is given an opportunity to perform with the ballet company in New York for the summer· and Dee Dee follows, both to look out for her daughter and to relive the ballet vicariously. This gives Director Herbert Ross the opportunity to intersperse strikingly beautiful ballet scenes with scenes depicting the conflict between the two old friends over Amelia's rising stardom. Emma is desperate in her need of a daughter figure, for her star is fading fast and she has no "next genera­tion" to rely on. Dee Dee is livid with jealousy and a feeling of being left out. All I will say about the scene in which all these pent up emotions are released and confron­ted is that is worth twice the price of admission. The electric energy created by these two legendary film giants is intense, and it is highlighted by adventurous camera work that is, for the most part, 
flawle~. 

In fact, the force that Bancroft and McLaine create is so powerful that it completely overshadows the minor annoy­ances in the film. For instance, in a sub-plot, Amelia (Leslie Brown -a fine actress) has an affair with the star of the ballet company (Uri, played by Michel Baryshnikov, who does a pretty spiffy job of acting ·himself). After spending the better part of an evening losing her virginity to the Russian, Amelia returns home to the apartment in which she and her mother share a bedroom, and casually reports the fait accompli, along with the fact that she has been taking the pill to be ready for just such an occasion. She handles her mother's incredulouslook with an admonishment: "C'mon mom, I don't want to talk about it now. It will ruin the glow." Would a born and bred Oklahoma City girl handle her new found sophistica­tion so quickly and effortlessly? Amelia deals with the sudden onslaught of love, fame and cosmopolitan life as gracefu~ as 

mark rust 
she pirouettes. Such a smooth adaptation 
seems somehow contrived. 
One tends to dismiss the slight contri­vance, though, because it helps to build Amelia into the kink of catalyst needed for the confrontation between her mother and Emma, a confrontation which forces Dee Dee to do two things. First, she is forced into an awareness that her dreaming of the life that might have been is self-destruct­ive; and second, she is forced into confronting Emma with her feelings of jealousy which she con't hold inside any longer. The ,ensuing fight between the two friends and the catharsis of emotion that occurs with it, clears the air so that the two can finally communicate. It is through this communication that the two under­stand how it feels to be in one anothers' shoes, and it becomes clear to both of them that no matter what one chooses at the turning point, that choice will be filled with equal amounts of misery and happiness. 
Jn a few reviews of this movie, some mention has been given to a suggested lesbian relationship between DeeDee and Emma. This suggestion is groundless and .>uperflous to Laurent's explanation of the spiritual wavelength on which th_ey both exist. The relevant perception of their relationship as sisters in a shared exper­ience is that it is one devoid of games, superficial banter, or any of a host of other plastic devices that plague two people reaquainting themselves after a long separation. These two human beings are . real, not in spite of their openness, but:-:..,: because of it. 
T. =,Turning Point is a very fine movie; it deserved an Oscar. The fact that it did not receive one (despite 11 ,nominations) tells one less about the movie than it does about the state of the Academy. The acting is superb, the technical effects are well-done, and the glimpse of the ballet is a delightful addition to a story that can stand on its own merit. It is playing at the Scottsdale, and if you see no other movie this year, this is one you shouldcatch. 

Obseruer Features 
Thursday, April 6, 1978
the observer 





Police still baffled by Hillside case 
Los Angeles [API -The first body was found Sept. 9. In all, 13 young women have been killed. And the vaunted Los Angeles police depart­ment is embarrassed because it has been unable to solve the case of the Hillside Strangler. 
The red faces come partly because police have announced several breakthroughs only to have them quickly close up. and partly be­cause Los Angeles police have been featured in fictional television dra­mas for years as models of effic­iency and success. 
Most recently, on Monday, a 37-year-old. handyman named Pe­ter Mark Jones, who had been arrested in the case and questioned for five days, was released and given an apology by newly appoin­ted police chief Daryl F. Gates. 
A boyhood friend, George Sham­shak had implicated the man, and investigators said Shamshak knew things about the case that only detectives and the killer or killers would know. 
Shamshak, who had been convict­ed of armed robbery in Massachus-


unday, April 9 7:P.M. 


8:OOP.M. Lecture. Dr. Albert K. Wimmer ''East-West Relations After· the League of the Democratic Com­munist Manifest" Architecture 
onday, April 10 Auditorium. 
7:OOP.M. Lecture. Mr. NanI Palkhivala, Indian Ambassador to the Unit­ed States. "Rebirth of Democra­cy in India". Hayes-Healy
i 

Auditoriu,. Free. , 10:00P.M. Film. 'Around the World In 80 uesday; April 11 Days' Engineering Aud. Free 
Wednesday, Apnl 12 of Two Chinas'. Arch Aud 
i  11 :OOA.M. to 5:OOP.M.  "One Earth Mark­ 
/  etplace".  Sale  of  imported  
handcrafts  from  around  the  
world.  Rathskellar  -LaFortune  
Student Center.  
8:OOP.M.  Lecture.  Dr.  Yu-Ming  Shaw.  
.  'United  States and the Tangle  

11 :OOA.ft('.. to 5:00 P.M. 'One Earth ' Marketplace' Rathskellar LaFortune Student Center 8:OOP.M. Lecture. Dr. Rogelio de Ia torre. "The Cuban Revolution: A look . . in Retrospect". Hayes-HealyThursday, Apnl 13 Auditorium. 
11 :OOA.M. to 5:OOP.M. "One Earth Market­place". Rathskellar -LaFortune Student Center. 
8:OOP.M. 'lecture. Dr. A. Peter Walshe. Friday April 14 "Southern Africa in Crisis". ' Memorial Library Auditorium. 11 :OOA.M. fo 5:OOP.M. "One Earth Market­~lace". Rathskellar-La Fortune Student Center. 
7:30P.M. tecture. Dr. Ibrahim El-Sharif, <;uttural Counselor of the Social­i~t Peoples Libyan Arab Jamahi­riya Embassy. "People's Auth­
ority -Direct Democracy The­Saturday, April 15 ory". Memorial Ubrary Audi­torium. 
7:30P.M. INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL. an evening of cultural entertain­ment from around the world. Wash in ton Hall. 
etts and had been brought to California to talk to investigators, remained in federal custody Wed­nesday. Police spokesman Lt. Dan Cooke said the investigators would be talking to him again. 
Meanwhile, a 93-member police task force is at work -Gates had headed it before becoming chief recently -but Cooke pointed out that this case is not one that can be solved in short order. 
"We have so little in the way of physical evidence," he said. 
"The usual homicide is committed in someone's home by known members of the victim's family or friends." He said the victims had been strangled, meaning no mur­der weapon; left nude, with no clothing to be sent to the lab, and dumped at various locations, with no witnesses. 
"We have not figured out the common denominator," he added. The victims have ranged from prostitutes to school girls to the most recent victim last month. a teacher at a bible school. 
And the backfiring leads have done no good at all to the department's reputation. In add­
ition to Jones· arrest, release and the apology to him. they include: -In February. police arrested a television actor who confessed to 
the killlings. He was released after 
police explained that he apparently 
was under the influence of drugs 
and had nothing whatsoever to do 
with the case. 

-Three months ago, police called a news conference at which two composite drawings of suspects were to be released. But the conference was called off minutes before it was to start when two undercover detectives discovered the drawings depicted them. 
Cooke talks good-naturedly about that one: "We discovered the situation ourselves. After all. it does point up the efficiency of our artist that the men would be able to recognize themselves." 
Gryp's SU year controversial 
to go on sale to students as part of an entire homecoming package. At first Gryp stood firm by the' Student Union's "preferential" ticket pol­icy. but after receiving pressure from the Hall Presidents Council (HPC), he backed off, concluding that "the policy was wrong." Later, when the question of compli­mentary concert tickets for Student Union personnel was debated, the SU Board of Directors came out in favor of continuing the policy, over objections voiced by the HPC. 
Gryp has also had his difficulties with the Observer. He, along with Bender, have publicly accused the, newspaper of inadequate and inac­curate coverage during the year. "Things just weren't clicking." Gryp explained. ''The Observer made goofs just like I did, but my goofs were on the front page." 
"At first," Gryp remembered, "I got angry and then defensive. I wasn't used to press coverage and then, so much so soon." He concludes that there was a break­down in communications between the Observer and the Student Union during the year. adding "I thought I had to say something about it." 
Being ~ "outsider" helped 

Despite the problems of adjust­ment, looking back on the year since his controversial appointment as SU director, Gryp believes that being an "outsider" has helped him. "I had a unique perspective, coming in from the outside," he recalled. "and I could see the 
things  that  needed  to  be  chal­ 
lenged."  
"It  was  a  good  experience,"  

Gryp said, "but I don't know if I would do it again. When I got into the Union I liked politics, but now, " he commented, "I know it's not for me . I wasn't prepared for all the different points of view, all the sub-groups and cliques. I've had to force myself to broaden my hori­zons, and to expect the unfore­seen." 
"I'm happy with the Student Union movies. They're what people wanted to see and that's what I care about," Gryp observed. "With the USC thing, I screwed up, I walked into the blades, but with the complimentary tickets I did the best thing I could have done. The whole thing was undercover and there was corrup­tion before. Now people know about it and we have a written policy." 
Yet along with the controversial side of his directorship, Gryp has accomplished many of the goals he outlined for the Student Union at the beginning of the school year. In early October, the Student Government approved an operating budget for the Union just short of $60.000. It represented an increase of approximately IS percent above 
· last year's budget. Gryp. with Assistant SU Director Jodie Korth and SU Comptroller Colleen McGrath. advocated strict budgeting of Union funds. All Student Union commissions and even such events as the Sophomore Literary Festival were able to stay within their budgets this year and Gryp predicts that there will be a great "surplus" at the end of the semester. In other areas, the Student Union abandoned the idea of "block parties" and turned to sponsoring Happy Hours with great success. The Student Union introduced "mini-concerts" and one man per­formances. such as William Win­dom's appearance at Notre Dame this semseter. The Union also experimented with turntable clinics and plant sales, all of which. Gryp noted, received large support from the students. Another idea that Gryp was able 
to initiate was the co-sponsoring of speakers and activities by the Student Union in cooperation with the dorms on campus. Large events were scheduled with Howard and Planner, among others. 
The Calendar Office was estab­lished to coordinate the scheduling of campus events and to help avoid conflicts. The SU Ticket Office instituted a lottery system for ticket distribution so that students would not have to sleep out for tickets. 
Although Gryp' s original propo­sal to "revive" the LaFortune Student Center, by keeping it open two extra hours and by installing video entertainment equipment, was rejected by the student govern­ment. a copy machine was finally placed in the lounge. . 
"I tried to do my best,Gryp sa1d. "We had a good relationship with the Student Government, and where there was a wall before, it's totally gone now." 
"There are people who disagree with me and dislike me," he admitted, "but I want them to understand that I did everything for the Student Union and the student body. I had no ulterior motives," Gryp reiterated. "I screwed up a lot, but a lot of good things happened." 
"It's been a success this year, and I want to thank everyone in the Union." he concluded. "We set out to give the student body what they wanted. and to make the Union touch their lives. That's not easy to do in a year, but we started at least to turn it ~round. 
J-Board meeting 

There will be a mandatory meeting for all Hall Judicial Board chairmen tonight at 10 p.m. in the Student Government offices. The new Judicial Coordinator will be selected. All candidates for this position should also attend. 

FEATURING MANY OF THE HATtON'S FINEST COLLEGE JAZZ GROuPS 
JUDGES: HUBERT LAWS  FLUTE  
LEW TABACKIN  SAXOPHONE  
LOUIE BELLSON  DRUMS  
LARRY RIDDLEY  SASS  
JOHN LEWIS  PIANO  
DAN MORGANSTERN  CRrriC  
7:30 FRIDAY NIGHT  S4.50  WEEKEND  PASS  
12:15  SATURDAY  $2.50  STUDENT  szso  
6:30 SATURDAY  NIGHT  S4.00  NON-STUDENT  $8.50  
j,~qf,_~.t!  Qeqf~~qf~  


tiJW~&lfVI!l ejf ~®vru m~me 

Thursday, April 6, 1978 
the observer 
9 



Nowcomes Millertime. ­
C 1977 Miller 8rew1ng Co. Milwaukee. Wis. 
•· 



-., ... 
·.~··{0;,>.. 

Thu~sday, April 6, 1978



10 the observer 



Europeans walk off jobs 

BRUSSELS, Belgium [AP] -An­workers delayed newscasts to show two major labor federations whose 
AFTE!f GRADUATING, KNIJTE 

gry over rising unemployment, solidarity with the demonstrators. leaders sent a message to the 
WASN'T SU6E WHETHER HE 

millions of Western European More than 10 million Italian president of the parliament de­
SHOULD BE A CHE/1/STRY

workers walked off the job, rallied industrial and agricultural workers manding more work for young 
TEACHER, 011 A FOOTBALL

in plants or demonstrated in the -about half the labor force -struck people and farmers. street yesterday in their first such for four hours to protest both Rallies and street demonstra­
COACH. HE PI5C.U5SED IT 


international !abe'" protest. unemployment and the terrorist tions occupied workers in West 
WITH FR. N!£UWLAND ~ 

The European Trade Union Con­kidnapping of former Premier Aldo Germany, Luxembourg, Sweden federation called the walkout on the Moro by the urban guerrilla Red and Norway. Union-management eve of a Common Market summit in Brigades 20 days ago. meeting took place in Austria and Copenhagen, blaming business In Greece, an estimated 200,000 Denmark. British unions delayed 
employers and government leaders workers stopped work for three the protest until May Day. for the region's more than seven 
hours at major factories, public Action Day drew little participa­utilities and transportation. tion in Switzerland and France,million jobless. 
About six to seven million Span­where workers will negotiate soonAt least 31 trade unions repre­ish workers laid down their tools for with the new government for ansenting some 40 million workers in more than an hour. The protest increase in the minimum wage and18 countries were included in drew the support of the country's fifth week of mandatory vacation.
"Action Day," officials said. An estimated IS million laborers staged staggered strikes in Spain, Italy. Greece and Belgium lasting 
Badin hosts eighth graders 
from one to four hours. Union leaders said the protest was aimed by Brandy Andrasak limits of the inner city."
not at crippling the region but to 
This weekend of "caring and 
warn officials of more walkouts Sr. Verene Girnscheid, Badin 
sharing" initiated by Girnscheid's
unless people are put back to work. Hall rectress, and volunteers from 

COAC.H FOOTBALL -:----~
past involvement with the parish.
At the end of February, the Badin Hall are involved this week­
She had dedicated one day a week
unemployment rate in the nine­end in a "Weekend of Caring and 
counselling the girls of the parish
nation Common Market was 5.9 Sharing." Twenty-five eighth 
while living near Chicago. Her 
percent. or 6.2S million unemploy­grade girls from an inn~r .city 
attachment to them and her under­
ed compared to S.4 percent in 1977 parish in Chicago have been mvtted 
standing of their needs prompted
and S.O percent in 1976. Italy, to share Friday and Saturday with 
her to "do something for them."
Denmark and Belgium have been the Badin women. 
Girnscheid and the principle of
hardest hit by the loss of available Marv Anne Kay, one of the 
the school, Anne O'Brian, coopera­
jobs. studcn.t coordinators. explained the 
ted to make this weekend possible. 
By contrast, the jobless rate in purpose of the weekend as an 
Kay, Jean Sculati, and Marianne
the United States was 6.1 percent, opportunity for the girls to investi­
Murphy, along with Girnscheid are 
or 6.1 million unemployed, in gate who they arc through the 
activites and discussion leaders.
February compared to 7.6 percent various activites an discussions 
Other Notre Dame students par­
in 1977. planned. She said these are 
ticipating in the weekend include 
In Belgium yesterday, a group of intended to lead them to realize 
Burnadctte Young, Therese Tavis. 
protesters briefly occupied the their full potential (college. career, 
Nancy Murphy, Cindy Smullen,
office of State Secretary for Budget and talents) and "motivate" them 
Anne Marie Adams, and Katy 
Mid East arms bill delayed 
Marc Eyskens. Belgian radio to strive for a future · beyond the 
Hays. Included in the scheduled activi· WASIDNGTON [AP] -The Car­within that time, the deals automa­
tics for the weekend are various ter administration has decided to tically go through. discussions and presentations aim­delay submission of its controver­Criticism has centered mostly on ing at such topics as friendships. sial $4.8 billion Middle East arms the proposed sale of 60 F-15 jet
freedom, parents. identity, and package to Congress until the fighter bombers to Saudi Arabia. trust. Filmstrips, movies, and Senate takes final action on the Backers of Israel are concerned encounter games will be instru­Panama Canal treaties in about that the planes would be used ments in directing the girls to an three weeks. against the Jewish state in a future 
***:*******. 


understanding of these topics. The move, disclosed today, Mideast war. Other opponentsThe inner-city girls involved would give opponents of the Mid­base their objections on the proli­represent a wide range of economic .east arms deals more time to try to feration of sophisticated weaponsand religious levels. Kay stated block warplane sales to Saudi in an unstable region."This is not a retreat, but it does Arabia and Egypt. But it might There is opposition, too, to the
APPLE PANCAKES 
have religious undertones, which also help the administration in the administration's plan to sell SO all the girls are familiar with." long run. F-SE fighters to Egypt, the first
Extra large, using fresh apples 
Entertaining and interacting with The delay reflects consideration major arms shipment to that coun­them will be Norma Reyes, an R.A. for senators who have not yet made try by the United States. The

& pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
in Badin, and Renard Gueringer a up their minds on the arms package package also included 1S F-lSs and 
US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 
performer in the Keenan Review. and want the canal treaty settled 7S F -16 jet fighters for Israel. ''The women from Badin will be first before turning attention to the
272-7433 across from Holiday Inn 
very much involved with the girls,'' question of Mideast arms. Kay commented, "they have all Once the arms package is for­Irish down Valpo
******************** 










ENGINEERS 
Federal Government agencies are involved in some of the most important technological work being done today .... in energy fields, communi­cation, transportation, consumer protection, de­fense, exploring inner and outer space and the environment. 
Some of our jobs are unique, with projects and facilities found nowhere else. Salaries are good, the work is interesting and there are ex­cellent opportunities for advancement. 
Our nationwide network can get your name referred to agencies in every part of the country. 
For Information about best opportunities by specialty and location, send a coupon or your resume to : Engineering Recruitment, Room -6A11. 
ffl U.S. Civil Service Commission
tmJ Washington, D.C. 20415 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

----------------·· 
been cooperative in providing aeco­mally submitted, Congress has 30 
modations for friday night in their days to exercise a veto. Unless a (continued from p.ll) 
rooms, offering companionship and majority of both the House and earlier, scoring all four of their runs baking for the girls." Senate register their opposition in the bottom of the third. 
Captain Rick Pullano, as he does 
so well, started it off with a hard 
single to center field. With one


PUT YOUR SCIENTIFIC OR 
out. First baseman Bob Cleary looped a single to right field.


ENGINEERING DEGREE 
Pullano, running on the pitch, 
scored from first with a head-first slide. Walks to Jim Montagano and Dan Voellinger loaded up the bases. Tom Caruso's infield hit br9ught home the second Irish run before left fielder Bill Starr's line drive single to left drove in the last two. 
Starr's rap sent starting pitcher Ted Serbin to the showers, as Jamie Macahon came on in relief to hold the Irish at bay. 
Meanwhile, Don "Wolfman" Wolfe was controlling the Crusad­er's bats as well, keeping 'his fast ball down, and using the corners effectively to pick up his third win this year, against only one loss. 
"He's gotten stronger and 


TO WORK 
If you're a degree candidate who would like to embark on a future· orienl<od scientific or engin.,.,.;ng care<>r, llx'll con,ick>r the Unltro States 
stronger as the year has progres­Air Fore<' It's on~ of the linl!st upportuniti<'s in the ndtiolt 
sed," praised Coach Kelley, "He 

Completion of our three mvnth Officer Training Sehoul nels IJ<IU dn 
stayed in control against a tough

ollicds commission and launches you into d career that's geared lor 

tomorrow. Our equipment is among the finest. our working con· 
team."

I I 
ditions are excellent. and our benefits package unmatched. Fin J out 
"We've played very steadily

Name_______________________________________ 
about a space age service from ~·our nearest Air Force recruiter. 
lately,'' reflected Kelley ·on the

I I 
team's sixth win, "Today we took 
Addr~s 

S/Sgt.Donald Boehringer
I I 
advantage ofthe breaks, we fielded


USAF Recruiting Office 
well behind Don's (Wolfe) pitch­

I Clty___________State__s-Zlp_____ I 
ing, and we're just playing one

109 E. LaSalle Street
I Degree level and I 
game at a time."

Engineering Speciality____________________ 

South Bend,In.46601 
The Irish will have a good

I I 
Unlv. Col.__________ Yr. Grad.___ 

PH:(219)233-4747 
opportunity to go over the .500

I I 
mark for the first time since the 

I Geog rap hie Preference(s )___________________ I Rollins Tournament. when the) take on Bethel College today at
I I 
Bethel. Last Friday, Notre Dame

-------------------·-------------­
won the first meeting between the 
A greo•·~~.,~...,..41U)t.&'A:4·. •'•'A~.J.I ):..-..-..~·JwP....!.~~JE~.?.-Q:. ___·---------.-.A
I I 


~~-~------~------··· 
*Observer 
Sports 
Wolfe leads Irish with three-hitter 
by Greg Solman Associate Sports Editor 
Even under ideal conditionlt, 
pitchers seldom scoff at "three 
hitters." Early in the season, on 
cold days, against fairly good 
hitting teams, they never do. 
Hurler Don Wolfe, who held the 
Valporaiso Crusaders to three 
widely spaced hits yesterday in the 
Irish 4-1 win, was no exception 
"I feel very good about my 
performance today,'' commented 
Wolfe, "It's probably the best 
game I've pitched so far this year." 
Coach Tom Kelly agreed, and 
said the performance ranked with 
any ofthe pitching staff's this year. 
"He had his control, he showed good poise, and he moved his pitches around well," said Kelly of the southpaw, after seeing his team engineer a well-played victory to bring their record to 6-6, "and Valporaiso is not an easy team to pitch against by any means." 
But Wolfe had little problem, striking out six while surrendering but a solid single to Nils Boyer in the fifth inning, an infield hit to John Belskis in the eigth, and a ground ball single to center to John Simmons. 
The Valporaiso run came, ironi­cally, in the fourth with Wolfe still pitching a no-hitter. After Sim­mons had drawn a walk, he advanced to second on a wild pitch, then scored on two infield outs. One run, no hits--but it came an inning too late for the Crusaders. as the Irish had broken it open 
(continued on p. 10) 

sophomores 

IE OFFER 
I ABETTER 
LIFE 




AFTER 
COLLEIE 
Army ROTC offers you a no-obligation, six-week summer leadership pro­gram at Fort Knox, Ky. 
You'll earn about $450 and an opportunity to enter advanced ROTC next fall. That means extra income C$2,500 during your last two years of college) and leads to your commission as an Army officer. 
Army ROTC also offers you new career opportuni­ties after college -part­time as a leader in Re­serve while employed in the civilian community or full-time on active duty. 
For details and an inter­view appointment, contact: 
Major John J. Macneil Room 236 in the ROTC Building 
or call 6264 --6265 --7332 
111111YEC TII·YEII Plllllll. FIITIE 
-lfl. 

Thursday, Apri16, 1978 the ObServer 11 Tony Pace=============================================================~============================================================================================================================================================================================= 
American League East 
:============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================.cont.,
(continued from p.l2) ' are a solid relief duo, though Hiller is getting on in years. The Tigers have a very young team, one that should be a contender in future seasons. They will rise this year as quickly as they mature. Milwaukee Brewers-Bud Selig has followed the example of the other free-spending owners by signing Sal Bando for last season and Larry Hisle for this year. Unfortunately, Selig has spent a lot of money on questionable players. Bando had a fine career for Oakland but.heis now34 and he had an off year last year. Hisle was a flop when he first came up with the Phillies and had his best year ever last year. He also has the bats 
o Lyman Bostock and Rod Carew in the same lineup in Minnesota to help him. Hisle will be 31 in May and he has a six year contract. Selig could have spent his money more wisely. 
The star of the Brewers is Robin Yount. Young is only 22 but he has played 4 years in the majors. He is looking to play out his option and go elsewhere. Selig should have spent some of his money on Yount. . 
This year the bats of Hisle, Bando and Yount along with those of <;e.ctl Cooper and Sixto Lezcano will have to carry the Brewers. Ben Oghvte, obtainedfrom the Tigers, should add some punch. 
The biggest question mark on the Brewers concerns their pitching. Bill 
Travers at the age of 25, is a staff veteran. Other hurlers being counted on 
are Jerry Augustine and Mosse Haas. In the bullpen Bill Castro and Ed 
Rodriguez are being counted on. All in all, it is a very young and untested 
staff. Manager George Bamberger claims that this will soom be a . 
solid pitching staff. While he may be right, they may not be ready thts 
year. 
aeveland Indians-The Indians position may be the toughest to predict. 
Gabe Paul has returned and his propensity for trading leads one to believe 
that the current Indian roster may be drastically changed by the June 15 
trading deadline. Paul has already traded Dennis Eckersley, a pitcher 
who was thought to be untouchable. The trading may just have begun. 
The offensive stars for the Indians are Buddy Bell, Andre Thornton and newly acquired Ted Cox. Cox was the MVP in the International League 
last when he was Red Sox 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc... typed. 
IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 
287-4971. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Resumes: $3.00 per page. Call 232-()898 "When you want the Best" 
ENVELOPE STUFFING SCHEMES EX· 
POSED.  2 page report free.  Practics,  
2130·3A  N.W.  Fillmore, Corvallis,  OR  
97330  

Friday Night Fever! Hey! Hey! Hey! Thumbs up all you Logan Center Volun­teers and interested students! Come to the fabulously fun Logan Center 50's Dance this Friday Night, April 7th from 7:30·10:00 pm at the Logan Center cafeteria. Dress up 50's style with bobby sox on feet or grease in hair! Refresh­ments for everyone! 
Saturday Morning Fever! This Saturday is the first Saturday Recreation Period at Logan Center after Spring Break. Remember Saturday morning from 9:00· 11:30. 
FOR RENT 

1 bdrm apart to sublet for summer. Security tennis ct., pool. Good terms call 288-7258. 
Fine houses in good neighborhoods (Portage and Angela area( Reasonable rents. For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto 234-6688. 
2 rooms for rent. Summer School. $40 per month. 233-1329. 
Two completely furnished houses for rent this summer · a couple blocks from campus, safe neighborhood. One four bedroom, one six bedroom, approx $100 a month. 277-3604. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: Gold Wyler Quartz watch, from Flanner study room on March 15, 1978. Call Dave at 1170. 
FOUND: Gold watch with Black Band. Found Tuesday morning in Haggar lectureroom. Contact Joe at 288-2688. 
FOUND: plaid cap 6992 
LOST: Tape recorder from E-1 ine. Hefty reward. No questions. Call 3308 
LOST: Taken or borrowed from ACC: One blue faced seiko watch. Great sentimen· tal value, so great reward. Call 8833. 
LOST: T.l. SA 50 Calculator. Lost week before Spring break. Please call 7801 if found. 
Manning should also add some thing to the run totals after recovering from a series of injuries which hampered his play last season. 
The Indian defense is generally good. Manning and second baseman Duane Kuiper are thier two best fielders. Larvell Blanks has been penciled in at shortstop and that could create defensive problems. He is a good hitter but he has never been smooth with the glove. Thorton must also improve in the field. 
With Eckersley gone, Wayne Garland and Rick Waits are going to have to carry the load. Mike Paxton and Rick Wise should also fit in. Their top reliever is Jim Kern. He may have a lot of work this summer. 
It is hard to evaluate the Indians because they are changing and will continue to change, their personnel. Unless a major change takes place and the team jells quickly, however, the Tribe could be in for a long year. Toronto Blue Jays-The Blue Jays had a mildly successful first year and they should improve this year. Like the Tigers, they are very young, and their future is bright. However it is unlikely that they will escape the cellar this year. 
The two main cogs in the Jays' offense for this year and years to come are Bob Bailor and Roy Howell. Both Batted over .300 last year and they might even improve this year. yankee cast-off Otto Velez provided some timely hits last year. Ron Fairly, the ageless wonder of baseball is gone. 
Recently acquired John Mayberry could be a great addition for the Blue Jays. His offensive production had fallen off in his last two seasons with Kansas City, but he still is a good rbi man. Mayberry was acquired for the ever-present player to be named later. 
The Jays pitching is young and respectable. Dave Lemanczyk, Jerry Garvin, Jesse Jefferson, Tom Murphy and Tom Underwood provide the Jays with the nucleus of a good mound staff. The outfield of Bailor, Velez and Woods is good defensively. And, Alan Ashby and Rick Cerone are a good catching duo. the infield is error prone, but as the younger players gain experience they will improve. 
The Blue Jays are still an expansion team and they are going to have a 
season. However they should improve a little on last year's 54-107 
and he should be a star. Rick 

Tostal is coming. All talented impersonations or those who think they are, register now for impersonation CALL 
K.B. at 4-1-4677. Rich Little, Beware!
Classifieds An Observer Typists: 
LOST: Class ring between guard house and Alumni before break. Reward. Call Dave 1582. 
LOST: Orange ski gloves in green section at Bengal Bouts. Call Dave 1582. 
LOST: 1grey suit-pack containing suit, 1 pr slacks, 1 pr dress shoes and 7 silk shirts. Left in C-1 lot on Tuesday afternoon. Please call John at 3807. 
FOUND: Set of 2 keys found before break. Call Observer office to identify. 
LOST: 1Texas instrument SR-11 calcula· tor in or near LaFortune on the Wednes­day before Spring Break. Reward offered. Call 233-7213. 
WANTED 
Needed, 2girls for summer housemates. Call 4-1-4034. 
GAIN JOB EXPERIENCE IN SALES MANAGEMENT!! WSND has positions open for 78-79. Interviews are April 6 and 7. Call 7342 for appointment. 20V2 commission on all sales. 
Wanted: one ride to Chicago, leaving Friday. Please Call Ron 1516. 
2guys need ride to Chicago Friday April 
7. 
Call Mike 6186. 
FOR SALE 
Full Color Cotton Bowl and USC football; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated material at low price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Used Golf balls like new. $20.00/100 and other prices. Call 272-0783. 
FOR SALE: Universal zig-zag sewing machine. stretch stitch and other fancy stitches. Great condition. Make an offer. 
Call 6734. 
1973 Vega -55,000 miles rust on body ­mechanically Inspected. 234-5686. 
1973 LTO 10-passenger station wagon. Automatic transmission. power steering, power breaks, radio, tinted glass and luggage rack. Slight body damage. 234-5686. 
PERSONALS 
To whom it may concern: Thanks for the use of your couches last weekend. GratefullY. yours, Lisa and Mary Rose 
P.S. We II come again next weekend if you get more velveeta cheese. 
Hatch, How does it feel to be a fire hydrant? Leaky 
Quote of the Week: "All the world loves a Mangelsdorf!'' 

To the young man with the springtime thoughts of lavender daisies, many thanks. 
K.F, 

Busted at Dunes Dillonites: Please attend "busting loose" happy hour to re-enact our crime • same time. 
Love, Regina Juvies 

B. Y.O.R (Bring your own ranger) 
Clip, Don't take me seriously. I'm from Jolsy. Pate 
For Sale: 2Jackson Browne tickets. Call Kate 7888 
Happy 24th Birthday Mr. T. Love, Lulu 
Garv-You're Wierd. 
Richard: Happy Birthday to the Royal Knight. 
Caro 

ATIENTION ACCOUNTING MAJORS: HAVE YOU HEARD OF THE BIG FOUR? VOTE KEVIN CONNALY,JIM OWENS, CLAY PARKER AND ACE SHUSKO FOR NOAA ON FRIDAY. 
To the 3 Kojaks in Fisher: Careful -King 
Kong may mistake you as roll-on deodar­ants. P.S. See you in the Bars. 
Caryn Marcucci-Happy Legal Birthday. Are your I.D's busy this weekend? Love, Your Roomie 
Dear Cynthia, Have a really great 19th birthday!! Love, Cindy 
Maria, Best Wishes and Good Luck -you'll do it. Fag 
Furnished Apt. All orivate, 3 rooms up for married grad student. All utilities, near memorial hospital. No rent for helping 2 people in wheelchairs. 232­9128. 
There will be ashort mandatory meeting on Thursday, April 6 at 7:oo pm in the Observer Offices. Please attend. 
Mardi 

CJF is coming. Be there!! !1! 
Haircuts, Trims, styles -cheap! SMC 4530 Betsy 
Gumby fingers ­
It's still magic! 
xoxox 

Special Cleats drink tonight at senior Bar. $.50 
Hue lights up our lives -Happy Birthday Mark! 
Huge, f.. Does your nickname mean that you are I the BMOC? I 
I

To Someone very Special: Thanks for 
I

coming into my life. It has been agreat 12 months. I Mr. Sentimental I I
Teresita: 
I

Your hair is red, your eyes are blue, This is something special that is just for you!! Guess Who? 
Attention ND/SMC girls: Sign-ups for girls division of Bookstore Basketball will begin April 1(}14. Call Betsy 4-1-4214 (2:30-4:30) Also, we need volunteers to ref and keep score. Call Amy 4-1-5710 (11:00-11:30 pm. 
Gorgeous feet, Happy Anniversary! Your love is overwhelming. Yours Forever. 
It's Cleats Night at Senior Bar. Come and tie one on. 
Dear April 6: (that's you Mark Huard) Happy Birthday! XXOO 
April4 

Larry, Happy Anniversary. I love you. 'jan 
Nine days untn O'Miller 
The Corby Gang welcomes the return of its rich alumnus Bill Despins, and asks that he help sponsor their final semester 



12 the observer ThursdayI April 6, 1978 \ 
Irish li~~smen upend Bradley;Knee f1n1shes three un:~der par 
f~~y ..P;~;\:~~::~~=~~====;=~~======~=~!L::~~~======~=~=~~~=~=;=:=:=====~~=:=~-~~-~~~-=-=·=-!~=~-~=~=~~~==~~~=:·~=~~~~~-~====·=·=·===·=·=·=·===·=·=·=·===·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·===·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·~·~=~·=-:~:~~!:=:=~0ri
1 tniia~g~aiiinii?iiiiiiiiiiiiil 


by BW CaldweD performed so well yesterday cert-Sports Writer ainly fir the mold that is required. 
The team is captained by Rich 

Yesterday in their first dual meet Knee, a senior from Wilmington, of the season, the Irish defeated Delaware. Rich encompasses what the Bradley team by a score of 375 is needed to be a successful golfer to 389, on the Burke Memorial Golf at Notre Dame, not only is he a fine Course. golfer but he is also a top-notch 
The Irish were paced by Dave student. Knee who shot an incredible 3 Also looking toward a fine season under par 68. Dave shot a 36 on the is Tim Saurs, a junior from Pekin, front nine and a 32, including Illinois. Last fall Tim led the Irish birdies on the last four holes, on with a 75.8 average. the back nine. It was not, however, The third member, and yester­a one man show as the Irish posted day's low-scorer, is Dave Knee. a team average of 75 for the day. Dave, a sophomore, is the reigning ''A team average of 75 in any part Notre Dame Open Champ. of the season" commented Coach Another sophomore, John Lund-Nocl O'Sullivan" is just an excellen gren from Montevideo, Minnesota team performance." is looked to provide some low 
Contributing to the team effort scores. Last year john paced the were John Lundgren who posted a Irish at both the Kepler and . 79, Rich Knee who shot a 77, Tim Northern Invitationals. Saurs who carded a 77, Tom The remaining two positions are McCarthy who shot a 74, and Tim currently held by freshmen. Tom Sachek who posted an 82. McCarthy from West Allis, Wisco-
Coach O'Sullivan feels that golf is nsin is the Wisconsin Open Champ, perhaps the most demanding of all and Tim Sachek of South Bend is collegiate sports at du Lac because the reigning South Bend Metropoli­there arc two factors that cannot be tan Golf Champion. overlooked: the academic pres-Coach O'Sullivan feels that all sun·s. and the very poor weather of these golfers are exceptional be-South Bend. Keeping these factors cause he can ask them to play their in mind Coach O'Sullivan has to best golf under adverse condit­look for playuers who have an ions." ··abundance of patience and pers-"Anybody can play well in June, 
American League East 


O'Sullivan, but how many can play 
in the spring under less than ideal 
conditions." Coach O'Sullivan 
fecrls he has this exactly type of 
pl\lyer. 

Notre Dame's athletic success of 
la.te has spread to the golf team. 
L{lst year in the Purdue Invitation­
al, the Irish placed second to the 
University of Illinois. This year 
Notre Dame hopes to accomplish 
even more. It will not be an easy 
task as the Irish encounters a very 
challenging and extensive sched­
ule. The Irish will have to face the 
number two rated Ohio State 
Buckeyes in sis invitationals along 
with numerous other high!)' regar­
ded schools. In spite of the rough 
schedule Coach O'Sullivan feels that a realistic goal would be that of taking his team to the NCAA tournament. 
For this goal to become a reality the Irish will have to perform as a team. Although golf is an individ­~al sport, team spirit is very Important and' as long as we have the team spirit we will get the high finishes.' One has believe that the high finishes might be .achieved and thier goal of reaching the NCAA tournament will no longer be a dream. 
Notre Dame's next home meet Back to work for the 1977 National Champs. will be this Friday April 7th against • 
The Yankees brought the baseball title back to the American League by 
defeating the Dodgers in last October's World Series. The Yankees have 
a fair shot to repeat as champions in 1978. The biggest obstacle in their 
path is right in their own division: the Boston Red Sox. The Red Sox 
improved their main weak spot, pitching, over the winter and their race 
with the Yankees is a toss-up. Both of these clubs are head and shoulders 
above the rest of the division. 

The Baltimore Orioles still have the best manager in baseball, Earl 
Weaver. but they have lost some of their top pitching. Detroit is young 
and will be in the race for a while but they need more experience. Gabe 
Paul has returned to Cleveland and he has a large task facing him in the 
Indians. Toronto will still be the doormat of the division. Here's an 
in-depth look at the AL East: 
New York Yankees-The Yankees won it all last year when they easily 
could have been destroyed by the turmoil off the field. Having gone 
through such a season the Yankees may have calmed down so this season 
will be a little more normal. If the Yankees are to win the division. they 
will have to expend all their energies on the playing field. 
The two major improvements this year are in the bullpen. Free agents 
Rich Gossage and Rawly Eastwick have been added. With Cy Young 
award winner Sparky Lyle already a Yankee, New York has the makings of 
one of the greatest bullpens in baseball history. Lyle. of course, has said 
he wants to be traded because he does not think their is going to be 
!Dough work for the three of them. With the injury problems the Yankee 
~tarters have been having and Billy Martin's plan to yank some starters 
.1fter only six innings. there should be plenty of work for this talented trio. 
The loss of Mike Torrez will hurt the starting rotation. Catfish Hunter is 
.:oming off his worst season ever, Don Gullet. is hurt again. and Ed 
Figueroa has been inconsistent during the spring. Ron Guidry and Dick 
Tidrow. moved to a starting spot, will have to pitch well. Maybe Martin 
.viii even take Ken Holtzman out of storage to see if he can still pitch. 
Offensively the Yankees are the same team they were last year. 
Thurman Munson, Graig Nettles and Reggie Jackson are the biggest run 
producers. Mickey Rivers and Willie Randolph provide solid hitting and 
speed on the basepaths. Chris Chambliss and Lou Pinella hit for average 
and knock in timely runs. 
Defensively. Jim Spencer is a valuable edition. The Gold Glove first 
'iacker will relieve Chambliss in late innings. Nettles is the best defensive 
third baseman in either league. He makes the great plays look easy. The 
Yankee outfield. when Roy White is out there has the worst set of arms in 
the league. Also. Jackson was a major defensive liability in rightfield last 
year. Fortunately, Paul Blair can relieve him. 
The Yankees should battle the Red Sox to the wire, edging them on the 
last day or two of the season. 
Boston Red Sox-Even with a poor pitching staff and some minor defensive 
problems. the Red Sox won 97 games last year. They did it with offensive 
power. They are just as strong offensively this year and they have taken 
steps to improve their pitching. They should win over 100 games. 
Mike Torrez and Dennis Eckersley are the two new starters for the Bosox and they should help immediately. Torrez. however, is a very slow starter. His 1977 record was only 17-13, and that was with a long winning streak in the second half of the season. He is not going to pitch every game as he did against the Dodgers in the World Series. Torrez will have problems pitching in Fenway Park. When he is throwing a bit high. 
the netover the Green Monster might fill with baseballs. Torrez's value will be seen when the Red Sox and Yankees are battling in late August and September. Eckersley is young and he throws hard. He had a no-hitter last year. With those powerful Boston bats behind him, he should become a :'!0 game winner. Luis Tiant and Bill "Spaceman" Lee, holdovers from last year's staff. will be the other starters. 
Th,· new reliever for the Red Sox is Dick Drago. He has been around for a few years but he is a valuable hurler. He should take some of the relief load off the shoulders of Bill Campbell. 
Not only do the Red Sox have power, now they also have speed. Jerry Remy. acquired from the Angels, has stolen 110 bases in the last th.i-ee years. and his lifetime batting average hovers around the .260 mark. He should team wi•' Rick Burleson to give Boston a dynamic leadoff combination. ::•g;•ers Jim Rice, Butch Hobson, George Scott, Carl Yastremski and Carleton Fisk dot the rest of the Red Sox lineup. If Fred Lynn has recovered from his ankle injury, then he should add to their fire power. Boston should score more runs than ever this year. 
Remy's presence improves the team defensively. No longer will the inconsistent Denny Doyle be occupying the second base slot. George Scott. normally a superb outfielder, slumped some last season. Butch Hobson should improve at the hot corner. Burleson is sound at shortstop. 
Although Fred Lynn says Yastremski is not the fielder he once was. Yaz still plays the wall in Fenway better than anyone else. With Lynn in center and the riflearmed Dwight Evans in right. Boston has a fine defensive outfield. Rick Miller. defensive insurance for the flychasers. has been traded. 
Even with Torrez and Eckersly, the Red Sox are still shy on pitching. Neither Tiant or Lee has been consistent. Look for Boston to fall a game or two short of New York. Baltimore Orioles-The Orioles were not supposed to even be in the race last season. but somehow they survived until the end of September. Much of the credit goes to Earl Weaver. This year Weaver's task looks even more difficult as Rudy May and Ross Grimsley are both wearing the red. white and blue of the Montreal Expos. 
The Birds' biggest weapon in recent years has been Ken Singleton. However. he has been suffering from a back ailment and may not be able to perform up to his expectations. The bulk of the load will then have to be carried by Eddie Murray and Lee May. Murray. last season's Rookie-of-the-Year in the AL. has a world of potential as a slugger. May. who is nearing the end of an illustrious career. should have a few more solid seasons for the Orioles. AI Bumbry is a steady leadoff man and Doug DeCinces is a tough out. Carlos Lopez. obtained from Seattle. should help the offense. 
Defense has always been an Oriole strongpoint. Though it has declined somewhat. this year should be no different. Mark Belanger is entering his tenth season as the fulltime Baltimore shortstop. He is a magician with the glove. DeCinces will never make the fans forget Brooks Robinson, but 
he is a more than adequate defensive player. Rick Dempsey is back behind the plate after an injury. and his replacement, Dave Skaggs. showed that he can do a suitable job when called on. Bumbry is not the best centerfielder in the game and his arm is weak. Weaver may have unloaded Paul Blair too soon. 
Who do the Birds have to throw at opposing teams? Well there is the ageless Jim Palmer. Palmer pitched against the Dodgers in the 1966 World Series if you can remember that far back in baseball history. He has a .651 career winning percentage and that does not figure to decrease this year. The other starters should be Mike Hanagan. Dennis Martinez and either Scott McGregor or Don Stanhouse. If Stanhouse is moved to the bullpen. he will team with Tippy Martinez. These pitchers are not bad. just untested. They may not be able to fill the gap left by May and Grimsley. 
This should be a typical Baltimore team: scrapping for whatever they can get. and winning about 85 games. Detroit Tigers -The Tigers have slumped recently. They have not been a factor in the AL East. This year should begin a turnaround. ~The Tigers are committed to youth and they should begin to see some results. 
The best young player on the Tigers is Jason Thompson. Last year the young slugger socked 31 home runs and drove in 105 runs. He should be joined in the infield this season by a pair of twenty year old rookies, Lou Whitaker. the second baseman. and Alan Trammell, the shortstop. They They played together last year in the Tiger farm system and management thinks they are ready for the big time. This may be a painful transition early in the season, but by the end of the year this duo should have proved their value to the club. Another young player of note is Steve Kemp, who followed in the footsteps of Fred Lynn at USC. 
For veterans, the Tigers have Ron LeAore, the man who makes their attack go, and Milt May who steadies the young Tiger pitching staff. 
TheTigersfans are anxiously awaiting the return of "the Bird," Mark Fidrych, to top form. Dave Rozema, last season's rookie sensation, also must return to full strength if the Tigers are to win. Jim Slaton was added to the mound corps and he should help. Steve Foucault and John Hiller 
(continued on p. llJ 
National Champs start practice 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
The 1977 NCAA football national 
champions took to Cartier Field 
yesterday to begin their defense of 
the number one position. With 16 
monogram winners lost to gradua­
tion. Dan Devine has a lot of work 
ahead in the spring months. 
''I am just happy to be done with 
recruiting and public relations work 
and be back outdoors. the Irish 
coach commented. "Our approach 
will be no different than last year's preparation . 
The biggest switch so far has 
been the transporting of David 
Waymer across the line of scrim­
mage from his flanker positon to 
the left corner-back slot. 
"When I aske~ Waymer what he thought of the switch he said. "I just want to win another ring," explained Devine. 
The offense is highlighted by returners Joe Montana, Jerome Heavens, Vagas Ferguson and Kris Haines. Defensive stalwarts Bob Golic, Steve Heimkreiter, Jim Browner, Joe Restic and Randy Harrison will be looking to sharpen their skills in the warm weather and avoid injury. Names that will be missing this spring due to injuries are: Dave Mitchell, Jeff Weston, Mark Czaja, K.C. Ryan, Howard Meyer, Larry Graziani and Chris Muhlenkamp. 
The first scrimmage will be held this Saturday and will be open to the public. The tentative time is 

1:00 pm and, weather permitting, the event will be held in the stadium. 

Only Fifty spots remain in tourney 
Only fifty spots remain in the Bookstore Tournament. 
register by calling Tourne} 
Commissioner Leo Latz at 8361 
from 7-10 p.m. each evening this 
week. Each team should be sure to 
include a team name and two team 
captains. 
Applications for the Bookstore 
Basketball Staff will also be accep­
ted this week. applications may be 
submitted to Latz at 140 Pangborn 
and should include name, address, 
and phone numoer. 











