-----------------------------------------~ 
Manson to remain in jail, board denies his release 

VACAVILLE, Calif. [API -Mass murderer Charles Manson was denied parole from his life sentence yesterday after he told the state parole board that he should not be released from prison because he is "totally unsuitable for that world out there." He also denied ever killing anyone. 

"I didn't kill nobody and I didn't order nobody to be killed," said the bearded, shaggy-haired Manson, who regaled the Community Re­lease Board with his comments for some three hours. 
However, Manson added, "I'm totally unsuitable for that world outIn espionag~e case there. I don't fit in at all." 
The 44-year-old Manson, speak­ing out for the first time since his


Ex-spy pleas not guilty 
1971 conviction in the Tate­LaBianca murders, alternately sat 
HAMMOND, Ind. [AP] -William Kampiles, a former <:::IA clerk accused of espionage, told a federal jury yesterday that he was inno­cent. But he offered no explanation for why he confessed to FBI agents on Aug. 15. 
Defense Attorney Mich.1el Monico has contended Kampii( s was co­erced into confessing ·Jy threats against him and his family. 
However. Monico askec Kampiles nothing about the reaso1 for mak­ing the confession. 
Before cross-examination began, Kampilcs said that his confession was not true. and that he recanted it on Aug. 16 and Aug. 17. 
"I never had any class Jied docu­ments in my possession--ever." Kampiles testified. 
During closing argum( nts, Mon­ico told the jury Kampiles should not be convicted be•:ause the government failed to prove he stole any secret document and sold it to the Soviets. 
"Their (the prosecution) entire case rests on stateme11 ts elicited from Mr. Kampiles," he said. referring to the confessiJn. 
U.S. Attorney David Ready, how­ever. portrayed Kampiles as a young man who took a :;hortcut to his goal of being a double agent. 
"He sold one of the United States' top secrets to the Sovid Union," Ready said. 
Kampiles, 23, is accust:d of steal­ing one copy of a top-secret technical manual for the KH-11 satellite surveillance sy~ tern. The system monitors, by photograph from outer space, troop and equip­ment movements. The government contends he sold the document to a Russian embassy official in Athens, Greece, during a trip there in February and March 1978. 
Jacqueline Cooper, a CIA em­ployee who worked in the same office as Kampiles, was the last to testify. 
She said that about four months after Kampiles is alleged to have stolen a KH-11 sattellite technical manual. she saw a KH-11 docu­ment in the office where they worked. 
However, on cross-examination, 
she said she could not be sure 
whether it was the missing KH-11 
manual of a document known as a 
KH-11 handbook. 
On cross-examination, Kampiles said that he told federal investiga­tors diferent stories on different days about what he had done in Greece in February and March. 
Taking the stand for the first time Wednesday, Kampiles said he was in Athens at that time and met four times with a Russian he identified as Michael. But he denied that he passed any documents or classified information to the Russians, al­though he received an envelop from Michael containing $3000 cash. · 
Kampiles said he tricked Michael into believing that he still worked for the CIA, had access to top-sec­ret material and would steal it for the Russians. 
The defense contends that Kam­piles--who held a low-ranking post with the CIA from March to November 1977--hoped that the CIA would hire him back as a double agent if he' fooled the 

Information on a carfer in nursing was available in the lobby of leMans yesterday. [Photo by Mark Ricca] and stood, waved his arm inRussians into thinking he was on exclamation and even half sangtheir side. 
during his presentation. 
After the closing arguments last night, U.S. District Judge Phil "I'm mad," said Manson. "I'm McNagny charged the jury, which mad; I'm indignant. I'm mad to was then permitted to go to dinner every bone in my body that I have before starting deliberations. to come back to the penitentiary when I didn't break no law." 
He denied, as he had at his trial. that he ordered members of hi!; roving "family" to murder actress Sharon Tate and six other persons in August 1969. 
'...9'd ~iQQ 

them mygeQb···' 
"If I wanted anyone killed.'' he said softly, "I'd kill them m)'sclf But I don't want anyone killed because I love my own life. Does that make sense?" 
Manson was originally sentenced to die but his sentence was commuted to life when the death penalty was outlawed in Califo>·nia. 
He is currently serving nine current life sentences. Prisoners in California are required to appt'ar before the parole board after their first seven years, and then yearly thereafter. 


Musica Orbis, presented by the SU Social Commission, performed in Lafortune last evening. The band was on a promotional tour, and were received well by those present. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
Over police brutality 

Thousands to march in protest 
by Betsy Spinelli 

Two tg three thousand people from ten cities across the nation are expected to march in Tupelo, Miss. on Thanksgiving Day to protest police brutality and discrimination in employment, housing and edu­cation. 
Tupelo and the surrounding area has been a hotbed of demonstration since last January when, according to the Milwaukee newspaper City­side, two policemen were found guilty of beating a confession out of a black inmate. The victim was awarded damages but the officers were not dismissed from the force. 
Shortly after the ruling, an imnate in a neighboring jail was found hung with his hands and feet bound. When officials called the death a suicide, local blacks were outraged. 
As a result of the public reaction, The United League of North Mis­sissippi, a 12-year-old militant civil rights organization, drew up a list of demands calling for decent jobs, hotising and education and an end to police terror tactics. _ 
Rapid industrialization in the northern part of Mississippi has made it a low wage. non-unionized area where blacks are the last-hired imd the first-fired, according to a pamphlet distributed by the league. Unemployment has in­creased there despite the growth of industry. In addition, some black families claim they have been driven off their land because of the industrial expansion. 
A boycott of white-owned stores, which was organized by the League, was 90 percent effective, but some pickets were arrested when managers charged that their customers were being harrassed. During the boycott, League organ­izer Skip Robinson was fired upon in his car and government officials as well as local merchants at­tempted to bribe him, according to Cityside. 
Blacks marched weekly through­out the spring and summer in the county seats of northern Missis­sippi as well as Tupelo. The League, which Robinson claims·has 50,000 members in Mississippi and Tennessee, began to gain addi­tional support in Alabama. 
In May, the Ku Klux Klan began 
organizing speeches--one of which 
was followed by a cross-burning-­
and announced a national rally in 
Tupelo scheduled for June 10. The 
United League responded by plan­
ning their own rally at the same 
place and time. 
Town officials were unsuccessful in their attempts to cancel the marches and avoid a confrontation. KKK Imperial Wizard Bill Wilken­son of Denham Springs, La., reserved all of Tupelo's available motel space in preparation for the rally. 
However, only 40 white-sheeted Klansmen paraded that day with about 100 supporters following along. ,The group arrived in the town square half an hour after 1000 black marchers had concluded their show of unity. 
The atmosphere in Tupelo by Labor Day was one of mounting tension. A total of 1500 people from such varied groups as the African Liberation Support Com­mittee, a van full of Latinos from Chicago, a welfare coalition from New York. and Milwaukee's United Workers, were present for the march, The day passed without serious incident. mainly because the 50 armed Klansmen who attended had to march single file through 800 United League demon­strators. 
Despite the efforts of the League 
and many other groups that sup­
port it in Tupelo, the injustices 
continue, according to the League's 
pamphlet. Mel Wesley, a 1972 ND 
graduate who has become inter­
ested in the problems in Tupelo. is 
:continued to page 3] Friday, November 17, 1978

the observer 

,_News Briefs _____ 
1===::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: w0 rld 
Soviet ships visit Turkey 
ISTANBUL, Turkey· A Soviet cruiser and destroyer dropped anchor yesterday off the European shore of the Bosporus ot begin a four-day official visit to Turkey--the Soviet navy's first to this NATO country since 1938. Turkish Premier Bulent Ecevit, who visited the Soviet Union earlier this year, has been trying to improve relations between Ankara and Moscow. The last Soviet naval vessel to visit the port of Istanbul was a destroyer sent 40 years ago for the funeral of Kemal Ataturk, founder of modern Turkey. 
1=-============================= National 
Food chain o_ffers worms 
CIDCAGO -The owner of Earthworms, Inc. said yesterday that he is adding "Wormburgers" to the 100 recipes he has for using protein-rich dried worms as food \supplements. A fast-food chain has denied rumors that it used ground red worms in its hamburgers. But Darrell Richards, owner of Earthworms, said it's only a "question of time before dried worms will take their place on the diet." People already eat snails, oysters, octopus, squid and shrimp, and dried worms will mix with any kind of cooking, he said. Richards, 43, said he cooks worm cookies and worm cakes at home about once a week. ''I like them and so do my two children who are 9 and 11. But my wife doesn't go for it yet. For dinner tonight, I'm going to mix one-tenth cup of dried earthworms to a quarter pound of hamburger and call it a 'Wormburger,"' he said. "They come out crispy, like a french fry. I like to eat them just like that." 
Sambo ~ _f~ghts .for name 
PROVIDENCE, Rhode Island • Sambo's restaurant chain has obtained a Superior Court order to keep the East Providence City Council from revoking its license for its refusal to change its name. Judge Anthony A. Giannini iss11ed the temporary restraining order 
. Wednesday for the restaurant now under construction, and scheduled a hearing on Sambo's request for a preliminary injunction for Nov. 22, two days after a City Council vote had been planned. Black groups contend the name is racially offensi.ve. The restaurant chain says the City Council's attempt to change the name violates its constitutional right to free speech. 


Weather 

Periods of rain today with highs in the mid to upper 40s. Cloudy, windy and cool with rain ending tonight. Lows in the low to mid 30s. Cloudy, windy and cool again tomorrow with highs in the low 40s. 


~On Campus Today_-----.. 
friday 

3:30pm lecture, on earth science, by frank royse, 101 earth science building 
lecture, "carbonium ion reactions and neighboring
4:30pm 

group participations," by prof. paul gassman, 123 niuwland 
5:15pm mass and supper, at the bulla shed 
meeting, world hunger coalition, lib. aud.
7 pm 

7, 9:15, film, "one flew over the cuckoo's nest," engr. aud. and 11:30 pm 1$1 
7:30pm 
8pm 
dpm 
saturday 
1:30pm 
2:30 and 
8 pm 4 pm 
7, 9:15 and 
11:30 pm 7:30pm 
8pm 8:30pm 
10:30 pm 
12:30 pm sunday 
3 pm 
7 pm 
7:30pm 8pm 

hockey, nd vs michigan state, a.c.c. film, "gone with the wind,"carrollihall, smc $1 travelogue, "up and away over the usa," by rudi 
thurau, o'laughlin aud. $2 
football, nd vs. georgia tech, in atlanta film, "gone with the wind," carroll hall, smc $1 
basketball, nd vs. clarke college, a.c.c. film, "one flew over the cuckoo's nest", engr. aud. $1 hockey, nd vs. michigan state, a.c.c. concert, alwyn wall band, washington social meeting fork of c and invited guests only, k of c hall mass for graduate students, wilson commons smoker, fork of c and invited guests only, k of c hall 
recital, judith nicisia-soprano, ruth fischer-piano, little theatre 
cila mass, smc c~ubhouse 
film, "gone with the wind", carroll hall, smc organ recital, scott wilson, sacred heart church 
WSND AM announces close of 'Bite the Big Apple' contest 
by Andy Segovia 

Jim Dorgan, Program Director at WSND AM, announced that the radio station's "Bite the Big Apple Contest" will officially close to­night at 11 p.m. The drawing for the grand prizes will be held over the weekend with the winners being announced in Monday's Observer. 
First prize is a weekend in New York City including two round trip air fares, hotel accomodations for two ri.ights, two tickets to a Broad­way play and $125 spending money. 
Second prize consists of a Sports Illustrated Court Club member­ship, a pair. of Plitt Theatre tickets and twenty albums. Third prize includes two pizzas from Pinocchio's and ten albums. 
The door tags identifying parti­cipants in the contest were distrib­uted early in October, Dorgan stated. "According to our initial count, about 70 percent of the campus doors displayed the tags." 
Dorgan pointed out that the room numbers obtained from the initial 
NO appoints. Fr. McDonagh to faculty· 

Fr. Enda McDonagh,a noted Irish theologian, has been named Huis­king Professor of Theolopy at Notre Dame and will join the fa.::ulty in January for a period of two and a half years. He is presently serving as dean of faculty and professor of moral theology at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth. 
Afoundingmember of the German Canon Law Society,in Munich and vice-president of the Institute for . Religion and Theology of Great Britain and Ireland, McDonagh is the author of several books and articles, including the recent "Li­beration Theology: An Irish Dia­
logue,"  published  last  year  in  
Dublin.  
Other  books  include  "Roman  

Catholics and Unity," "The Decla­ration of Religious Freedom," "In­lVitation and Response," and "Gift jlnd Call." 
[continued to page 4] 

*The Observer 
People of the Night 

Chief Operator: Madame Sherry Swinger: Beth "Hotstuff" Huffman Pre-Med Throats: They didn't show up; they were studying Organic! Business Throat: Greg Hedges Greenwich Village Couple: The Curvaceous "Cosmo," and "The Adonis"f Closet Queen: Paul Mullaneyf Ladies of the evening: Trish Meehan, Mary Campbell, Beth Willard, Kim Convey Bordello Management: Pimp Tom (drives a purple car) Powanda, and Head Sheet 
Changer and General Supervi­sor Mary 'Yes sir!' McCauley Arsonist: Maribeth Moran Petty Thieves: Mark Rust, John McGrath Vice Squad: Beth NOrton, Chris Slatt 
. Gasoline Attendant: Mark Ricca 
The Observer Is published Mon­doy tllrough Frld•y except during eum ond veatlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by tile students of Notre Dome ond S•lnt Mory's College. Subscriptions m•y be purchosed for uo per ye•r (S 10 per semeater) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dome, lndlone 46556. Second' class postege peld, Notre D•me. lndlene, 4UU. . The Observer Is o member of the Auocloted l"ress. All repro­dudlon rtghtl ore re1ervod. 
weekend were used since many students had trouble keeping the tags on their doors. "A number of students complained about the maids taking the tags off the doors, Dorgan said. 
Since the contest began, three room numbers were picked ran­domly on weekdays and one on Saturdays and Sundays, Dorgan explained. These room numbers were then announced on the air and those responding won prizes such as albums, McDonalds' certifi­cates, court club memberships, movie passes and theatre tickets. 
Dorgan stated that close to 80 percent of the room numbers that were a:ired called the station and won prizes. 
''The room · numbers of the winners have been placed in a barrel for the drawing this week­end," Dorgan noted. 
The contest was held in order to stimulate student awareness of the station's new format. "We have an entirely different format this year 
and  we  wanted  a  comprehensive  
student  response  to  it,"  Dorgan  
said.  

"I was very happy with the contest," Dorgan continued, "the results of the contest show that our listenership has increased signifi­cantly over last year's." 
a SUNDAY MASSES AT
campus
miniStry 
SACRED HEART CHURCH 
5:15 pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:15 am Sunday Rev. John VanWolvlear, C.S.C. 
10:30 am Sunday Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C. 
12:15 pm Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15 pm Vespers Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C. 
There Is more to life thcan the things 
you put 1n 
• shopping_.....__~ 
ccarl. Sure, everyone has possessions, 
but the next time that you're worrying 
about how your clothes color-coordinate, 
think about the people around the world 
and in the U.S. who don't have a lot. 
Maybe your skills could help them out. 

Consider spending a small part of your 
life as a Peace Corps or VISTA volunteer. 




CONTACT RECRUITERS: 
Sign-up for interview at Placement Offices of Notre arne and St. 
Mary's. Interviews will be scheduled on Nov. 20 & 21 at Notre 
Dame and Nov. 20 at St. Mary's. There will also be an 
~~·"""" "'""'"'~ ""'"lsrA 

.......................................... 
TENNIS CORNER presents 



HUNT CLOGS 
Rest your weary feet with these delightful Swedish made clogs. Genuine leather upper Is accented by a wooden platform with rid!led heel & sole. Thick padded terrycloih inner sole gives outstanding comfort to tired feet. Stylish buckle & strap can be used to convert the clogs Into slingback. 
colors: tan & navy sizes: men 10-13 ladies 6-10 
Also: Good selection of warm-ups including the Fila Look! 

-10% offf to ND-SMC students & faculty 
107 W. Wayne St. -around the corner from Robertson's 

...................................... 
the observer 

Publi~c doubts Carter economicplan 
NEW YORK [AP] • Presned by public. The solution to inflation 
ever-rising prices and unimpressed that gets the most support is by proposed economic cures, more cutting federal spending. than half the American p~ blic is The poll, taken Monday and now pessimistic about the future of Tuesday, found 54 percent of those the economy, an Associated Press­questioned expect the economy to 
NBC News poll shows. get worse in the next 12 months. Americans clearly do not expect The ranks of the pessimists have 
President Carter's voluntar:r price swollen by nine points since Octo­and wage guidelines to control ber, following another nine-point inflation -about six out of ten leap in the previous month. believe inflation will worsen in the Only 13 percent expect the next year, the poll showed. economy to improve and 31 percent 
A much-discussed second step in say they see no changes. Two the battle against infladon -percent are not sure. mandatory wage and price cmtrols Those findings, based on -is opposed bv a majority of the telephone interviews with 1,600 
Smokers t•~ke a breather, kick the habit for a day 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The American Cancer Society urged Americans to give up their cigarettes Thursday in the second annual "Great Ameri­can smokeout." The society esti­mated that at least five million people-a little less than 10 ?ercent of the nation's 54 million smokers­would participate. Here is a look at how the lives of five of those five million, selected at random, were affected. 
[AP] • James W. Fitzgerald Jr. normally has a salad for lunch. Yesterday he gave up smoking. Lunch was a giant hamburger with all the trimmings and a side order of french fries. 
"It's like a situation 1:omeay here," he said, describbg his office at Unionmutual, an insur­ance company based in Portland, Maine. "All of us non-smokers have been looking for reinforce­ment from each other ... Our mouths are all full." 
About 80 of the 1,200 employees at Unionmutual signed pledge cards promising to give up cigarettes for 24 hours as part of the American Cancer S,:>ciety's "Great American Smokeout." 
Fitzgerald, 33, a systems ana­lyst, began smoking when he was 16, gave it up when he was about 29, started to puff again 15 months ago and now smokes a little more than a pack a day. 
By late afternoon, Fitzgerald reported: "I'm asking people for small, non-intelligent things to do because I'm finding it very difficult to concentrate." He plattned a good dinner and a long walk. "Then I'm going to come h1ck and crawl right into bed with a good book and hope that sleep comes fast." 
Marleen McDaniel, a 35-year-old secretary at Indiana Bell at Indi­anapolis made her preparations Wednesday night. "I srroked a whole bunch of cigarettes, naybe 6 or 10 in about four hours... I washed all my ashtrays ~ nd put them away ... Then I gathered up all my half-empty packs . . and 
locked them  in  the  trunk  of my  
car."  
By  mid-morning,  Mrs.  

McDaniel, who started smoking almost 20 years ago and usually goes through about half a pack a day, was feeling some pang:;. "I'm crabby .• :·rm thinking·abont it too much ... 
Then came lunch. "My friend and I had to sit real close to another table and the couple had cigarettes after they ate. It really made me want one." Mrs. McDaniel. who is married to a former smoker who quit about two years ago, r·~sisted. 
"I'm (doing) pretty good," she reported at mid-afternoon And she said a Thursday night dance class would help her keep the pledge to quite puffing -for 24 hours at least. "I think anybody can do it for a day. It's t1e long term that's hard." 
Paul E. Phillips arrived at the savings and loan associa:ion he manages in Lander, WY, fortified with eight tolls of certs and 1 bag of carrot and celery sticks. The five smokers ·in Phillips' six-person office all decided to quit. 
By late afternoon, Phillips reported he and the others had managed to stick to snacks instead of cigarettes. "It's a little rough, but we'll make it. There's no mass hysteria yet, but I'm going to OD (overdose) on Certs ... 
"My son thinks it's terrific," Phillips said. "And of course my wife is not smoking today either." 
Phillips, 40, has smoked for about 12 years and goes through about a pack a day. He is trying to quit because he likes outdoor activities and found himself "huffing and puffing while skiing and hiking." 1 
Although the cancer society smokeout is only for 24 hours, Phillips will try to quit for good. ''i'll give it a shot," he said, explaining that he had tried before. 
•trhe mutd wag wtQQtng···bQegh 
wag wea~.' 

"The mind was willing, but the flesh was weak. It's kind of rough." 
"I'm a guy that (knows) in my brain it's the thing to do to not SII_Ioke, put getting the will in line js another thing,'' said Ed Springs, 35, a Two-pack-a-day smoker from Little Rock, AR. · 
Springs, the manager of systems programming at a bank, has smoked since he was 17. He said that skipping the early-morning cigarette yesterday wasn't too bad. "It's when you get to that cup of coffee. Then it comes on." 
By mid-morning, Springs was jittery. "I don't think I feel better. I think I feel nervous. I'm not sure I'm up to this now. I'll probably learn a lot about myself today -like how much of a habit I've 'got ... ­They say' you can do anything for one day, but one day is different from the big deal." 
Merwin Chambers, an interwal 
auditor for the Municipal Electric 
Authority of Georgia in Atlanta, 
had two very practical reasons for 
~r~ing to quit smoking. "Primarily, 
1t s too expensive... And I 
promised my girlfriend I would quit 
for Christmas. I told her I would 
start today and take it one day at a 
time. My problem is that I really 
enjoy smoking ... " 
Chambers, 27, who has smoked 
for eight years, almost stumbled 
before he started. "I woke up 
fired it up and took one puff and 
then put it out when I remembered 
what day it was ... " 
By late afternoon, Chambers had 
to confess to a couple more slips. 
"Counting the one this morning 
I've had three today. I just couldn't 
resist after lunch." His girlfriend 
called to find out how he was doing. 
"She was glad I only had three 
instead of the two packs I've 
usually had by this time." 
Chambers isn't giving up, how­
ever. "I'm thinking, if I get 
through the rest of the day, I may 
be able to go through tomorrow. 
I'm taking it hour by hour now." 
adults across the country, are the But the public sees mandatory most pessimistic since the question wage-price controls in quite a was first asked by NBC News in different light. Such action is 1975. opposed by 48 percent of the public 
Fifty-eight percent of the public and backed by only 40 percent. think inflation will worsen in the Twelve percent are not sure. next year -not a prognosis of A major reason for this opposi­success for Carter's Phase II volun­tion to mandatory price-wage tary price and wage guidelines. controls is that many Americans Nine percent expect the inflation to think there is a better way to Fight ease, and 31 percent see it holding rising prices -cutting federal at current levels. The remainder government spending. 
are not sure. Nearly a third of the public 
This expectation of failure comes favors such slashes to control despite support for such measures inflation. About a quarter favor by a 57-31 margin among those -wage-price controls. The rest 
interviewed. of the public is scattered among other possible options to halt the price rises. 
As with any sample survey, the 
results of the AP-NBC News polls 
could differ from the results of 
interviews with all Americans with 
telephones because of chance vari­
ations in the sample. 
For polls with 1600 intervtews, the results should vary no more than three percentage points either way simply because of sample errors. That is, there is only one chance out of 20 that the results with all American adults would var~ from these results by more than three percentage points. 


This little girl is looking forward to the start of a promising season of basketball which is justaround the corner [along with finals)! ' 
SMC Coalition initiates fast 
by Margaret Burke 
The National Day_ of Fast for a World Harvest, initiated by the Oxford Famine Relief Committee (OXFAM), was observed yester­day. 
At Saint Mary's, the World Hunger Coalition (WHC) organized a voluntary sundown to sundown fast. A service was held W ednes­day ~vening in Stapleton lounge to provtde the participating students with an opportunity to reflect on their reasons for fasting. 
Helen Gallagher, a coordinator of the fast, said, ''The emphasis is on personal participation. The fast can help people feel compassion for the many more people that, unfor­tunately, feel hungry everyday." 

The Fast for a World Harvest raised over a quarter of a million dollars for OXFAM last year. OXFAM is an international organi­zation that sponsors developmental programs related to world hunger. 
The money fhe WHC contributes to OXFAM helps the organization to continue to develop better agricultural skills. By providing tools and instructive personnel OXFAM _hopes to encourage a more effictent use o(resources in the hungry nations of the world, Gallagher said. • 
. Ga_llagher stated the participa­tion tn the fast was good. "This was a good time for it. Thailksgiv-, ing is always a time when people reflect on their situation relative to others less fortunate," she said. 

Citizens march in protest 
[continued from page 1] 
attempting to organil;e interested 
people in the South Bend area to 
attend the march on Nov. 25. 
T~ere will be a meeting tonight at 
7_ m the LaFortune louifge to 
dtscuss the situation in Tupelo and 
to determine the amount of interest 
in the march. 

the observer Friday, November 17, 1978 
Soviets say 

Female cosmonauts seem unlikely 
MOSCOW [API -Russian Olgas, 
Tanyas and Natashas eager to 
rocket into orbit aboard Soviet 
spaceships may have years to wait, 
a Soviet space official indicated 
yesterday. 

In 1963 the Soviet Union made 
headlines with the three-day flight 
of a woman, Valentina Nikolayeva­
Tereshkova, aboard the space cap­
sule Vostok 6. She is the only 
v.oman of any nationality to make a 
space flight. 

Alexei Leo nov, a former cosmo­naut who heads the Soviet Union's Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Cen­ter, said at a news-conference there were no Soviet women training for space flights now. 
The increasing length and com­plexity of Soviet space missions, Leonov said, requires cosmonauts to start training two to three years before they head into space, sug­gesting little likelihood that an­other Soviet woman would be in space soon. 
In the United ·States, several women arc in training for the space shuttle program. Lconov said the 1963 flight "showed that a woman can successfully fly into space and that the~ female organism can adapt tb this as well as the male organism." 
Lconov said that after Vostok 6, the last of the Vostok series, the 
Soviets began testing Soyuz-type 
capsules, which are still used. 

Because the initial .Soyuz shots 
were test flights, "It goes without 
saying that flights by women 
aboard them were not envisaged," 
he said. 

Leonov did not explain why no women were launched on Soyuz flights after the system had been found reliable. 
The news conference at Moscow 
State University was called pri­
marily to discuss the recently 
completed 139-day Soviet space 
flight, the longest in history. 

Cosmonauts Vladimir Kovalenok and Alexander Svanchenkov re­turned to Earth Nov. 2 after the record-setting flight aboard the orbiting Salyut 6 space station. 
lvanchenkov commented that du­ring the first week of the . flight, 
Observer 
promotes 
Stewart 

Chris Stewart, a second semester junior from Peekskill, NY, was named yesterday Assistant Features Editor of the Observer according to Tony Pace, editor in chief. 

EST-CE QUE VOUS VOULEZ~FAIRE 
QUELQUE CHOSE,DE SPECIAL AVEC 
VOTRE CAPACITE DE PARLER LA LANGUAGE FRAN~AISE? 
~ 

BIEN SUR! 
ALORS~ POUR VOVS RENSEIGNERJ 
TELEPHONEZ A I 
I I 

OU PARLER AVEC UN CONSEILLER 
Sign-up for interview at Placement Offices of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Interviews will be scheduled on Nov. 20 & 21 at Notre Dame and Nov. 20 at St. Mary's. There will also be an Information table In the library concourse both days. 
TRAVAILLEZ EN PLUSJEURS PAYS EN 
AFRIQUE CtlTE D'IVOIREJ MAROCJ
I I I 

HAUTE VOLTAJ ZAIREJ NIGER~ ETC. 
ENSEIG~ER LES MATHEMATIQUESJ LES 
SCIENCES) LES LANGVAGESJ 
LA NUTRITION) ET L AGRONOMIE. NOUS AVONS BESOIN DE VOS TALENTS! 

; 
; 1.; .· ._,

:·. -!. (). ~! ..:~i ' 
;;.. .>UO. -~ -~' ! ., . '. : . J ' 

... ' ----··-· .
-----~ 

BARGAIN mATINEES SAT & SUN. 
"we had to cope with our emotional hunger, so to speak." After that, he said, they were able to settle down to their regular work routines in space. 
"Our hobby during the flight was doing visual observations (of the Earth). Each of us had some favorite subjects," lvanchenkov said. 
He said, Kovalenok was inter­ested in the ocean's characteristics as seen from space, while he himself was particularly interested in looking at major glaciers. 
ND appoints MCDonagh to faculty 

[continued from page 2] 
McDonagh received degrees m science and theology after study at Maynooth, Angelicum and Grego­rian in Rome, and the University of Munich. He has taught at May­nooth since 1958 and formerly directed postgraduate study in theology. 
He will offer the results of his research into violence in a course to be offered this spring semester: "Third World Church," Theology 448, 2TT4. 
Stevens speaks on psychology 

The Society for Jungian/Archety­pal Psychology, founded by Tho­mas Kapacinskas in 1977, will sponsor an exchange of ideas concerning the psychology of women with Ms. Caroline Stevens Sunday at 7:30. 
Ms." Stevens is currently an analyst-in-training at the C.G. Jung Center at Evanston. The first half of her training was completed in Zurich, Switzerland. Ms. Stevens is teaching two courses at the Jung Center, both of them relating to the emerging psychol­ogy of women. 
On Sunday, Ms. Stevens hopes to engage in a discussion of hqw women have been imaged in myths and fairy tales. She will amplify this discussion with current theory concerning the psychology of women. 
Ms. Stevens is also interested in exploring the various relationships which are important to a woman: mother-daughter, sister and friend. 
The Society for Jungian/Arche­typal Psychology meets approxi­mately once a month to study various aspects of Jungian thought and current trends in archetypal psychology. The Society for Jungian/Archetypal Psychology meets approximately once a month to study various aspects of Jungian thought and current trends in archetypal psychology. The Soci ety has helped to sponsor the 
yearly C.G. Jung Conferences coor­dinated by Thomas Kapacinskas. 
Sunday's exchange of ideas will take place at Wilson Commons on Bulla Road. For more information, please con-tact Pat Vitullo (283-1897) or Margaret Dodds (277-02456). 
NOW!ffi 
WOODY ALLEN'S 
r---------------· 
!"1\TEHIC)HS'

t: -.-:--·--u-n-tl-il!d_Art_•s-ta' .·. 
1 1 
..~'(·~·· 

. 10-'':.\0 '·d 1 Su11 2:!5-·1·4.•-::, ···:30 
Adults 

This harpist appeared as part of Musica Orbis, the classical rock band, which performed in LaFortune last evening [Photo hy · Mark Ricca] 
Bell orders investigation highway truck violence 
PITTSBURGH [AP] -The U.S. 

Justice Department decided yester­
day to look into reports of highway 
violence that haveoccurredduring a 
strike by dissident steel truckers. 
After meeting with Teamsters 
President Frank Fitzsimmons in 
Washington, Attorney General 
Griffin B. Bell ordered U.S. attor­
neys and the FBI to look into 
reports of attacks on trucks since a 
strike by the Fra,ternal Association 
of Steel Haulers (FASH) began last 
weekend. 
FASH wants the right to bargain 
collectively for some 30,000 inde­
pendent owner-operators, about 
10,000 of whom are covered under 
Teamster contracts. .In addition, 
the group wants higher rates and 
streamlined government regula­
tions. 
FASH has refused to disclose how 
many members it has, although 
industry observers estimate the 
number at between 200 and 500. 
The group disclaims responsibility 
for scattered violence since the 
strike began. But police in 
Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, West 
Virginia and Michigan have re­
ported an upsurge of shootings, 
rock-throwing, tire-slashing and 
rigs being burned. 
Bell said Fitzsimmons requested the meeting '-:to discuss his co~­cern about allagations of violence. ' He said representatives of the steel industry also have expressed con­cern to the government. 
The industry, meanwhile, has reported only minor disruptions in shipments dued to the strike. 
U.S. Steel, the nation's largest producer, said almost 90 percent of planned steel shipments have been made with the remaining 10 per­cent delayed due to the truck stoppage. Other producers said they were shipping, but less than usual from some mills for lack of trucks. Steel production has not been affected. . Some truck companies say they arc having trouble tincling drivers, apparently because -some truckers .1 r. · afraid ro go out. 
Itt ,.,ungstown. Ohio, 29 ~tccl h;~:t::·r' "hn had refused to take · :',,·ir i'i~~-nut Wcdncsclay returned t" w<~rk at lhL' [ attavo Bros. terminal Thursday, Manager Rick Eldridge· 'aid the company trucks will travel in convoys during day­light hour~ until the strike b over. 
The threat of violence, rather than sympathy for the strike, appeared to be what was keeping other truckers idle. 
"I carry a gun in my truck, but I don't have eyes in the back of my head. and at night I can't keep my eye on every overpass, so I haven't moved since the strike started," said one steel hauled who asked to remain anonymous. 
''I'm a,fraid of getting my rig smashed up. If it wasn't for that, I'd be out there trucking," he said. 
Master cellist to preform with symphony 
Master of the cello, Yehuda Hanani, will perform with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Mr. Hanani is a native oi Israel. His impressive backround of studies include full scholarships at 
the  Rubin Academy  of  Music  in  
Jerusalem  and  the  Academy  of  
Music at Tel-Aviv.  
After  auditioning  for  Leonard  
Bernstein ,  Isaac  Stern,  and  

Leonard Rose, he was awarded a four-year scholarship at Julliard School of Music and later received a scholarship from Harvard Univer­sity to study with Leonard Shure. These were followed by three Rockefeller grants and study with the late cellist artist, Pablo Casals. 
Mr. Hanani has toured exten­sively throughout South America, Europe, and the United States thereby establishing his interna­tional reputation as an excellent cello ~alent. He also has appeared with chamber groups and most recently has done duo-recitals with the ~istinguished American piani$". James Dick. 
Har)ani will join the South Bend Symphony in a performance of Schurnan·s Concerto in A Minor for cello and orchestra. Other selec­tions , on the program include Brahn1's Tragic Overture and The Inextipguishablc Symphony No. 4, by Niflson. 
For] ticket information call 2J2-6143. 
I 


Firm pledges donation 

BusinE!ss College receives gift 
by Cathy Santoro 

The partners of Deloitte Haskins and Sells, an international firm of 
· certified public accountants, have pledged a $200.000 contribution to the College of Business Adr~inis­tration. Michael Suddes, assistant to Brother Leo Ryan., dean of the College of Business Admir istra­tion, said the gift is "the l:.rgest contribution from a single acl'ount­ing firm over a five year period and the largest contribution that Deloitte Haskins and Sell!. has made to any single universit~·.'' The contribution was made in conjunction with the Unive:·sity's "Campaign for Notre Dame" fund raising drive. $100.000 w~ s do­nated by the 20 Deloitte H 1skins and Sells partners who are ~ lumni of Notre Dame. An additional $100.000 was given by the Deloitte Haskins and Sells Foundation. Richard Fremgen, a pan ~er in the firm, said "The participation of Deloitte Haskins and Sells is reflec­tive of our continuing support of academic research and develop-
SMC propos~es student-facu'lty dinner plan 
by Beth MitcheU 

Kathleen Rice, dean of ~tudent Affairs at St. Mary's, ann)unced the beginning of the Facult~ Meal Plan in a letter to the residents of the college on Wednesday. The plan enables a student to invite a faculty member to join he:· for a meal at Saga as her guest. 
A proposal for the pian was submitted by the Saint Mary's faculty last spring. Accor•ling to Rice, the faculty felt that an opportunity to meet with the stu­dents outside the classroom is an important, however missing, facet of the school. She said t 1at the installment of a meal plar would give students the opportunity to get to know their favorite teachers and families over dinner. 
The proposal was unantmously approved by the faculty, and most of the details have been irored out. A problem still exists with off-cam­pus students partaking in the plan Rice said. "We can't extend it (the meal plan) to the off-campus students yet.'' 
The off-campus students are not permitted to eat in Saga. F.ice said that she is working on the J:roblem, and hopes to devise a pi an that allows off-campus student~ to take part. 
Those students wishing to take her favorite teacher to din 11er, can pick up tickets from Sr. Karol Jackowski, director of Residence Life, at her office in LeMans Hall. 
During the hec:: ;la dinner i~ <me St!re ti•ne when sludents l can relax and c• -~~~-~Ph~to ,.,_ M~Ricc~-~----·-·J 
ment in accounting and auditing. It Deloitte Haskins and Sells has is one of the largest financial aid had a long association with Notre programs of the Foundation." Dame. They were the first of the 
"The money will be used to "Big 8" accounting firms to come support the variety of student and to the University to recruit faculty activities within the depart­graduates of the Accounting De­
ment of· accountancy," Suddes partment. The firm has recruited stated. He said that Notre Dame is at Notre Dame every year for the a top undergraduate accounting past 40 years. school and a contribution oft this Several Notre Dame accounting 
size is very important to the graduates are now senior partners College. within the firm. 
Pope John Paul II urges 'nuns to look like nuns' 
Vatican city ]ap]-Pope John Paul II urged nuns yesterday to look like nuns, always to wear their "simple and apt'' habits to demonstrate their religious status. He warned them against being overwhelmed by "public opinion, even an eccles­iastic one." 
Addressing about 600 mother superiors of religious orders, the pope said nuns should not permit any feminist claim to overshadow their call to a chast, poor and obedient life in the Roman Catholic Church. 
The pontiff made a similar appeal to priests last week. 
"Yes, my sisters, in the church you can show the proper place of women,'' he said. 
The appeal came four days after a gathering of American nuns and lay Catholic women in Baltimore demanded admission of women into the priesthood. 
The American conference cited the church's "structural sin of parochial sexism" and said it would send a delegation to explain its case to the pope. 
John Paul made no reference to the American nuns, but he is unlikely to change the tradition against women priests. 
The )Pope praised efforts at reshaping religious orders in har­mony with the 1962-1965 Vatican Ecumenical Council. 
"All women religious have kind of passed around a password: 'Let us be first of all Christian.' A certain number added or preferred to this the following: 'Let us be first of all women.' 
"It is obvious that the two do not exclude each other. These striking formulas have found a favorable echo in a great part of the people of God. But the positive side of this increasing awareness could hardly do away with steady and careful vigilance.'' 
Vatican observers are calling the 264th pope of Roman Catholicism "doctrinally conservative." 
In his one month office, he has upheld the 1 ,500-year-old ban on married priests, asked for more emphasis on "doctrine and disci­pline" and called women who refuse abortion "heroines.'' 
The Pope who displayed his cross even when mountain-climb­ing as Cardinal Karol Wojtyla of Poland, has given particular signif­icance to clothing for priests and nuns. 
Last week he stressed the "un­iqueness" of the priestly vocation that he said "must be expressed also in our external clothing.'' 
"Let us not be ashamed," he told the Rome area priests. "Yes, we are in the world, but we are not worldly." 
The Pope in his second meeting with nuns since succeeding John Paul I on Oct. 16, said that "the church and the world need more than ever men and women who sacrifice all to follow Christ." 
Comair reduces 
flight costs 
As an inducement to cost-cons­
cious travelers, David R. Meuller, 
vice president and general mana­
ger of Comair, Inc., Cincinnati­
based commuter ai-:-line, has an­
nounced a SO-percent reduction in 
fares, on a stand-by basis from 
South Bend to Cincinnati. 
Most Comair flights are not filled 
to capacity and the stand-by pas­
senger has a good chance of 
boarding any flight. 
For reservations call toll free 
(800) 354-9822. 
DC club to publish 
All members of the D.C. Club 
'¥ho want their names in the club 
directory, but who haven't as yet 
filled out a form should call Jane at 
6804 before the break. 
Hall representatives are also 
urged to turn in all forms before 
they leave for break. 
0...~~~()~
<3 
miniStry

V this friday and every friday 
5:15 mass and supper 


%The Observer 
•n independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is publi!thed by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poliCies of the administration oi either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries. opinions and letters are the v1ews of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free· expression of varymg 
opmions on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony l'acP Edttor-m-Chief 
StPV£> Odland Managing Editor Iohn Calcutt f:xpcut1ve Fditor narb l.anghenry Execut1vP Editor 
RosPrnary Mills Ed1tonal Fditor 
Phil Cackley Cor-, Editor 
Jean Powley St Mary's Ed1tor 
Ann Gales News Ed1tor 
MikP LPwis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor 
Ray O'Brien Spprts Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production Manager John Tucker Business Manager Bob Rudy Advertising Manager 
-----1 
Friday, November 17, 1978 
P.O.Box Q== 
Pass her up! 
Dear Editor• 

I have received nothing but courtesy and respect from my fellow male students !'.ince arriving here as a transfer student. However. I have lost a great deal of respect for them after being "passed-up" at the November II ND v~. Tennc'>see football game. 
Both I and a friend were sub­jct·ted to thi-; ritual by a group of (trunken sophomores ~tanding be­hind ~~~-lhl·re was neither prov11cation nor consent involved. 
To rciatc the incident to the grade conscious student. it was worse than rccl'iving aD-slip in one 
·of my major courses. In fact, it was the worst experience I have had here at Notre Dame. First of all, I was scared to death. knowing that I could be hurt if dropped. (Earlier this year, a girl was placed in the hospital with back injuries caused while being ''passed-up.'') Secondly, I was thorougly shocked at the actions of the "friendly" passers-up. These actions were not called for and were entirely unap­preciated. 
DOONESBURY 
I CB<TAINL.Y YEAH. WANT 7D tu/SH S4ME7D 

YOfJ 71IE 8CST )tXI, 1../TT/.E (F IJKI(, SIR. LAOY. 
SPIRITS UP, 511?.. rM 5/.RE 'rOf)R. TIME (1)/U1Q')tE, (jjHY, JlJST lfXJI< ~ 1fT 7IE aJWMCK. 01/R 
· OWN PREMieR. TEN6 ~ MAa: ! 

Some may say the students were merely carried away by the enthu­siasm expected at the last home game. Maybe it was just their way of releasing pent-up sexual feelings caused by too much studying. Or perhaps it's the most anonymous way they can "abuse" the female population here, which seems to be so threatening to them. 
Whatever the reasons for their behavior, I feel a moratorium should be placed on the "passing­up" of students and fines should be charged to those who initiate the act. II is not only extremely dangerous, hut. in thi._ case, even more humiliating. 
Name withheld 
The OIJscn cr encourages com­ments from its readers. Letters may be mailed to 1'.0. Box Q. Notre Dame, In. 46556; or left at the Observer office on the third tloor of LaFortune Student Center. 
All letters submitted for publica­tion must be typed and include the name, address and phone number of the author. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions for grammatical errors, length, and libelous state­ments. 
Names cannot be withheld on letters unless sufficient reason is presented for doing so. 
by Garry Trudeau 
HOP5 Y()(J'RE /oKJT PfJR6E{) 7HAT'5 A6AINON BENCHCfJ. 
51JN[)AY. 7HANK5. 
t.!STCN, I H4V& 70 M:ET tuflH MR. THAT /}(//<8 NW. I'L.L (Jj(]{/L.{) TR:t 7lJ Pfl7 IN A BERN&. (j(){)[) /,(/(}{q} FOR. 
I
yaJ, OKAY? 
I 

The Notre Da1ne Man... 
tim o'melia
Editor's Note: The following column was printed in the Observer on Nov. 12, 1968. 
~hen he would come , back to his hall and m~ss 
John was a good student at a good, all-male Catholic high school and was elected to the National · Honor Society and worked on the school yearbook 
and liked science and mathematics. 
John was also a good athlete and played a pretty good defensive end and was almost elected captain. of the team his senior year when his school only lost one game. And John also played a fair left field though Lou Brock will never worry. And besides all this John was president of his senior class. 
And John went with Karen and everybody thought they would be married someday. John was the all-American boy. 
And as all-American boys do when it is time to go to college they think of Notre Dame, the all­American university. So Jo!1n graduated from .. .Prep in ...(fill in the appropiate names) and took his guitar, and a picture of Karen and his dreams and came to South Bend. 
So John came and moved into his room with another all-American boy from another city. And John combed his short blond hair, slipped on his new stud suit and heard all the speeches at freshman orientation and settled down to a wonderful four years at the all-American catholic university. 
And most of all John came to the football games where Ara Parseghian ran his monsters up and down the field until there was too much snow and then went to California to finish. And John went to the pep rallies where all the all-American boys loyally cheered for their school and their football players. And John yelled "Ara, Ara" and yelled at all the players and sang the "Victory March" and then poured out into the cold fall air in his sweat-soaked cruddy clothes and walked back to his hall. 
And John drank a few beers and then thumbed into town and sat through an Avon Art special. 
And after two weeks at school John bought a Notre Dame jacket with the golden shamrock on the front and the words on the back and wore proudly to all the games and into town and everywhere. 
And every night John would take his books to the library and study a little and look at the girls a lot. 
around until food sales opened and then went to 
bed. 

And John also complained, about the food in the 
dining halls and about what a lousy place South 
Bend was, about how ugly St. Mary's girls were and 
about his teachers. 

And John's parents came up for one game and 
Karen came up for homecoming and everyone went 
back home and school went on. 

But after his fresh~n year, John decided that 
maybe engineering wasn't his field and he switched 
into business administration. John wasn't good 
enough to play on the varsity baseball team so he 
joined one of the minor sports to keep himself in 
shape. · 

And when elections came around John voted for 
Richard Rossie who s'lood up for the rights of 
students. But he smiled contentedly when Nixon 
was elected president. 

And during his juniot year .loh11 even grew long sideburns and thought of moving offcampus. But when he became a senior he brought his car and stayed on campus anyway. 
And when graduation time came, John's parents and Karen and all his well-wishing relatives came and drank and wished John well and were happy. And John the all-American boy, graduate of the all-American school, took his diploma and a month later married Karen. 
And John put his Notre Dame jacket away but he sometimes he got it out and tooked at it and thought about his-four years at Notre Dame. 
And John looked for a job and told the man he was from Notre Dame and the man was impressed and hired John and in a few year'i John was making $40,000. 
And John and Karen had two children, a boy and a girl, and he raised them as good Catholics and they grew up, went to school, and were married and moved away with their own families. 
And all these years John had donated to the Notre Dame fund and so got good tickets for the football games. And five times a year John and Karen would go back to South Bend to the games. And John was happy and content and lived in the suburbs. 
...The Notre Dame W o1nan 
Mary was an excellent student at an all:girls C'atlwlic high school and was elected to thl· National Honor Sol'ietv and worked on the school ·yearbook and liked science and math. but she liked history and 
Englio,h, too. . 
Marv also worked in student government and was involved in community services. too. And Mary went to all the school activities, and came to be known as a very intelligent and involved person. And at the end of her junior year Mary went to Girl's State and played senator for a week. And after the summer was over, Mary returned to school more determined than ever to do well and study hard and get into a good college. 
And it just so happened that Mary had a guidance counselor who thought Mary would be happy at Notre Dame. And Mary came to Notre Dame so happy to be a woman student at predominantly male school that was the best 
c''""'" "'"'g' ;, Am""'· A"dr?,:~e:';,~,~-~ ~!1~ 
as the day~ went by. Mary went to mm·i~~ and on dates. but o,he 
classes and pep rallies and the football 'games and wondered how anyone could be happy at any other college. 
On _the weeknigh_ts Ma:y went to the ltbrary every mght after dmhcr and came home in time to go to Food Sales and to talk and to study some more before going to bed. And on weekends Mary went to parties and to movies · in the Engineering Auditorium and some­times to a concert. And Mary listened to all the boys complain about the girls, but she didn't really care, because all she wanted to do was to graduate and get a good job and eventually get mar­ried and be a good wife. 
And sometimes Mary complained too. She complained about the lack of activity, about the food in the clining hall, about overcrowding, and about parietals. But, Mary concluded, the administration knows what is best. So Mary 
alwa\j'-.('<1111<' home h~-12 on 
wcekr,ight~ and 2 on weekends and 
sonw~ime~ she was thankfulshe 
had t~~-And when the administra­
tion l!la_dc _more rules a~ou! parties 
and dnnkmg. mary d1dn t really 
care. b.:cause she knew the admini­
strati<.m was right about that too. 
And Mary continued her days at Notre Dame until she graduated and met a man just like John and got married. 
... And John came back to Notre Dame and found very little differ­ence. Sure, the hair was longer, but not, with few exceptions, longer than was socially accep­table. Jeans, cords, and khakis have replaced suits, but that's okay too. Girls, er, I mean women, are the only major change at ND. But Father Hesburgh has recently re­minded us that ND is still a predominantly male institution. 
No, John, ND hasn't changed much. 

Decisions, Decisions 
Dear Editor: 
In response to the article entitled "Decision Needed", the only decisions that can alleviate the sever overcrowding situation must come from the Administration. the CLC cannot order the Administra­tion to do anything. It can only advise and advise strongly. The 
CLC. ho\\ ever, was asked to propose solutions to the overcrowd­ing given certain undeniable limita­tions and concerns, such as the inability to knowledgably speak of the allocation of University funds for renovation and/or acquisition of new buildings, and the fact that students were violently opposed to being indiscriminately lotteried off campus. In other words, given the fact that ftimpk nathematics reinforced the likelihood of con­tinued overcrowding next year, the CLC was challenged to come up with some workable solutions. 
The CLC proposal consisted of thirteen points in which it was suggested that certain official investigations take place into the many variables of the overcrowding problem. By investigation it was meant that serious and practical consideration be given to the suggested solutions. It is easy to say what theoretically might be done, but it is not quite as simple to get it done once one is faced with the technicalities. For example, Mr. Price, it was noted. told the CLC that his inquiries into the conversion of existing halls such a's St. Joseph and Bronson (which by the way are graduate housing) were discouraging. Mr. Price also admitted that because he was new and inexperienced "someone else" 
might have more success. 
Finally, the CLC proposal was designed to respond to the concerns of the students. It was the CLC's c>pinion that they should 
not be subject to a University 
lottef1; but that if severe over­crowding did exist it might be to the student's advantage to have it dealt with at the hall level. That is, if a lottery were absolutely neces­sary it should be facilitated at the hall level so that special considera­tiqn could be given to special circumstances. Overall, the CLC proposal is a rather intricate and lengt~y alternative to a simple University lottery which is at best an exwedient solution to a Univer­sity sore !>pot. 
It i~ obvious that the quality of life is being deteriorated by the overcrowding ~iluation, but the deniall of that life to certain students is not the answer. The CLC i~ not delaying an inevitable University decision, nor is it trying to steJal valuable time from the students. It is representing the student body in encouraging the Administration to respond re­spom.i.bly to the problem. All are invited to read the CLC proposal and o!Ter alternatives. After all, it is everyone's problem. 
Mary T. Ryan 
-~-­
The-·rhird World! 
Strugg.le 

"There ,are onh· thre~ possi­bilities, in descending Jrder of preference: a decent dt mocratic regime. a continuation of the Trujillo regime or a Castro regime. We ought to aim at the first, but we really can't denounce tli<~ second until we are sure that we can avoid the third." This was a statement made by John Kennedy in 1961 regarding U.S. involve nent in helping to determine the !:uccessor to the military dictator. Trujillo, in the Dominican Republic The datline could just as "'ell read Saigon, Vietnam, 1965; Managua, Nicaragua, 1978; or Tehran, Iran, 1978. Since Kennedy's presidency, 
U.S. foreign policy has oti en taken a position which supports regimes which could be labelled military­dictator type if these regimes support U.S. economic ir.terests. Iran, a crucial cornerston~ to U.S. and Western European political, economic and military stn.tegy is a good example of this 2spect of foreign strategy. 
Iran's strategic location (bor­dering on Russia and tht~ Persian Gu!O and its capacity as one of the essential suppliers of oil to the West are indisputable. Iran's relationship with th•! ·West however, is much more i11tricate. Dozens of top transnati•mal cor­porations--including the largest 
U.S. based banks--hav~ multi­billion dollar investments in Iran. Iran is the largest importer of arms in the world, accounting for one fourth of U.S. arms sale:;. There are over 30,000 American military personnel in Iran and this figure is estimated to reach 60,000 by 1980. 
The U.S. should therefore by very concerned with the~ current internal strife in Iran. Many observers believe that U.S. military and economic involvement in Iran are part of the problem. 
"All business deals will have to be renegotiated because he (the Shah) attained power w thout an election." This was a :;tatement made last week by Ayatollah Khomeini, the exiled religious leader of the Shiite Mos· ems who make up more than 90Y2 of Iran's population. 
The recent mass uprisings and series of strikes in Iran certainly require a closer examination, and the attention and conc~:rn of all freedom-loving pt,ople. Although there have been many different types of people protesting and demonstrating against the govern­ment, it appears that ·here are some pervasive ur derlying 
of a People 
grievances. "Much of the protest, however, is the result of aspects of Iran's crash course in modern­ization...these aspects include the gulf between Iran's rich and poor that has continued despite the influx of oil reserves, and the dislocations. inefficiency and corruption in Iran's economic life." 
[New Yo~k Times, Nov. 12, 1978). The exiled religious leader Khomeini, has always stressed what he says is the economic irresponsibility of the Shah. He claims the funds spend on arms should be used "for the interest of the people." The Shah, he states, "Has destroyed the economy, the industry and the agriculture.'' Iran's inflation rate this year has been between 20-60'12. Iran must import 2-3 billion dollars worth of food a year. The land reforms for the peasants has been unsuccessful and many peasants are once again moving back to the cities. It must be noted, however, that high rates of inflation are indicative of a developing economy. 
Another underlying link among the disgruntled people is a strong sense of nationalism. Presently, there appears to be • • a split betwen the official culture of the govern­ment and the popular culture of the masses. A cultural dualism be­tween a reigning regime and the society below." (New York Times, Nov. 15) The ensuing polarity, it seems, has resulted in an eruption. Every major industry has been shut down at some time by a strike in the last two months. Before the military crackdown on Nov. 5, the streets of Tehran had been the scene of daily demonstrations, sometimes amounting to 100,000 people. 
It is time for Americans to re-examine their interpretations of the Iranian issue. This is not just a simple Communist or anti­Communist cold war decision. The situation is Iran is much more complex. It has become the struggle of a people, attemption to rid themselves of foreign inter­vention and to elect a constitutional government. 
"Third World: Struggle of a People" is a column prepared by members of CILA, Amnesty Inter· national, LAPEL, World Hunger Coalition, and Latin American In­formation Service. It is designed to supplement Observer coverage of Third World and social justice issues, at times by presenting a personal view of these issues. 
The Liberated Lawyer 
WASHINGTON--This is the story out of my voice. of a liberated woman who is sorry "I was in court every day tring to she became liberated. -Ier name keep the FCC from taking a radio 
for this article will be Ghiseldsa station away from somebody in Manifesto. Hoboken, N.J." She is a friend of mine and as far "I guess the thrill of being •a 
as I know she is as happi y married lawyer wears off very fast.'' as most people are these lays. She "Do your know what my dream doesn't have to work bt t decided in life is now that I'm a liberated 
that when her children wt:nt off into woman?" she asked. the world to find them~elves she "I can't guess." wold get her degree and become a "To see a matinee of 'Hello 
lawyer. Dolly' with Carol Channing." 
She did. She was accc:pted by a "Why can't you go in the law firm and is now w•lrking for evening to see it with Charlie? Is Blah. Blah, Objection & :iustained. he too tired?" 
I saw her the other da" at lunch. ''I'm too tired. When I get home "How's your tennis?~' I asked I just want to sit in a chair and drink her. a glass of white wine and watch the 
''I don't have time for tennis evening news." anymore. In fact I d~n't seem to "Why can't you?" have time for anything.' • 'I have to do the shopping at the 
"But you loved tennis." I said. supermarket on my way home, and "I loved drinking c:lffee and then make dinner, and then do the watching soap operas. too. But dishes and clean up the house. I now that I'm a liberate< woman I mav be a liberated woman to the can't do that either." wo;Id. but I'm still 'good old 
"I don't understand it It seems Gliiselda' to Charlie, 'the best little like only yesterday you "'ere telling woman a man could have."' me how wondl·rful it w•mld be to "But isn't Charlie proud of the get out in th( Eivc-aud-take of fact that you're a lawyer and a the real world. You d:eamed of person in your own right?" 
becoming a lawyer and being "Oh sure. He tells evervone: somelmd~· in yol!i uwn rtght.'' 'Meet my wife, she's a Iawy.er and 
"Yes.'' she :-.ai(:. "but I didn't makes $40,000 a year and she stjll think it would mean givmg up the has time to cook, cl.e<a_n, do exer­King Tut ;;xhibit at th ~ National cises. take vitamins and Geritol Gallerv." every day.' Then he kisses me on "YO'u missed he King-Tut the cheek and says just as they do i exhibit?" I tried I< kee1; tl1e shock the commc-··ci:-~b, 'M~· wife. l think 
The Leadership Conference of Women Religious and the Con­ference of Major Superior's of Men, meeting jointly for the first time last month in Cleveiand, called for "a total boycott of J.P. Stevens Co. until the South Carolina textile firm ends the atmosphere ·. of fear and intimidation surrounding workers who are attemption to form labor unions." The two bodies represent 
160,000  priests,  sisters  and  
brothers.  
The  boycott  is  based  on  the  

Church's traditional social teachings about the right or' workers to organize for collective bargaining. The Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union has been involved in the organizing efforts for 15 years. During this period, there have been 18 National Labor Relations Board decisions, three federal contempt charges and 200 workers fires, the union claims, because they were involved with union organizing. 
In order to implement the boy­cott, Church members and Church institutions will be urged to boycott all Steven's products. 
The U.S. government has always'. had a very close relationship, both economicaly and militarily with the Republic of South Korea. How­ever, at times, there has been a general sentiment of disharmony and perhaps towards limited disengagement between the two countries. President Carter's hu­man rights policy has conflicted with reports filed by international groups (Amnesty International) charging South Korea with jailing and torturing political prisoners. 
There have also been Senate hearings regarding bribery and favors between Tongsun Park, a wealthy South Korean business­man, and U.S. Senators. The bribes, it seems, were made to influence decisions regarding U.S. aid to South Korea. Admidst a! of this, the Carter administration has given the impression the U.S. was about to limit and cut back some of its military and economic ties with South Korea. (New York Times, March 1, 1977) 
Recent reports, however, indicate the U.S. will continue increasing its aid to the South Korean government. The Senate Appropiations Com:nittee reported the U.S. will contribute $447,828,000 in aid to South Korea in 1979. This is an increase of $98,576,000 over 1978 and $211,085,000 increase over 1977. The Pentagon has announced the number of U.S. military personnel in South Korea has increased by 1,702 to 42,547 between April and June -of this year. 
art bucl1wald 
I'll keep her.'" 
"That's tender," I said. 
"You want to hear of another· fantasy I have?" she said. 
"Sure." 
"I pretend it's ten o'clock in the morning and Gloria calls me up and says, 'Let's go over to Neiman­Marcus and try on every suit they have hanging in the store. And then let's go have lunch and tell terrible things about everyone we know.''' 
"That's a nice fantasy," I admitted. "I guess it will never be; at least you're not bored now." 
"Have vou ever tried to write a brief defending a gas line company in an antitrust suit? If you think waxing floors is drudgery, spend a day in a law library sometime." 
"Gosh, I ;thought liberated women had the best of both worlds--ego massaged all day long and cuddled all night." 
"You've got it all wrong. No one massages a liberated woman in the daytime because he thinks he'll be patronizing her. And when she comes home at night the husband figures he's doing such a nice thing by letting her work that he doesn't have to cuddle her.'· 
"What about joining a women's bowling league on Thursday?" I finally suggested. 
She paid her half of the check and left in a huff. \C) 1978. Los Angeles Time Syndicate 
The Death of Charlie Br6wn 
===-====== christopher a. stewart 
"In the last few weeks atm4Ullents 1experts· have told me that a new !lftr.asonic bomb has now been perfected which destabilizes the human brrun. ~y destroy~g certain cells in the brain It converts human bei~s into ravmg idiots mcapabie of reasoning or controlling themselve~ and this is an irreversible process." "----o.K--B 'de lri.h ..... ··•. 
~ u.uw n , s s....t.>sman ­
and Nobel Prize winner· ·· deals costing over $20 billion for fiscal years '78-79. Ethiopia has been generously apportioned $900 · million worth of military hardware by the Soviet Union, niaking it tbe largest arsenal assembled by tbe Russians outside. communist 
world. (TIME, .. · 

Where are these weapons going? Y® Plight be surprised tn know thaUhe country that spends mote pet capita on_ arms is neither us or {JSSR. Instead, it is Kuwait, a tiny Arab skeikdom on the Persian Gulf. ;the Pentagon's best customer is the Shah oflran: His kingdom is largelv kept intact by recent arms 
rate is· 
.As students, ...,.,_.:~•·''"•-~'""' -~·~'"''···~-_, a solution is to magnitude ofthe -"'""'t-.1"'"". and military stockpiles are . . gravest threat to the survival of·.. mankind. Unless we utilize our collective wills and minds to meet this challenge, we will disappear. Mankind is an endangered species, and unless the world's leaders 
. diminish this increasing depen~ dence on destructive weapons, mankind will soon be reduced to a vague memory in the mind of tbe Almighty. And Charlie Brown will be no more. 
Friday, November 17, 1978
the observer 

-Letters to a Lonely God 

I don't believe much in demons. That is why it always surprises me, when I have spent the day struggling through a crisis, to realize that I have met demons and wrestled with them, suffering bruises as obvious as the odors of sulphur and brimstone. I usually presume that .othe accursed spirits confine themselves mostly to the Judaean deserts with Biblical names. It shocks me to realize that the minions of Beelzebub have been squatting like toads on the arms of my own comfortable furniture, whispering tempta­tions that invite me to damnation. Holy water couldn't hold off the darkness, because the evil is so subtle as to be deceitful about whether it even exists. A priest can get himself talked about if he begins sprinkling holy water on his illusions, like an exterminator setting traps for imaginary mice. Anyway, it is only after the event, when he examines his weariness, that the priest realizes that his adversary was an angel wearing the mark of Cain. 
One long, dark afternoon, I talked with a girl, full of loveliness and innocence, who had an ordinary human problem: she was pregnant and unmarried. She had called and asked me for an appointment. The day was a Thursday. 
"It's all arranged," she said, "for me to go to Chicago and have an abortion on Saturday morning. I've never thought much about abortion before. Now that it's happening to me, I thought I should talk: 
The Child that Neuer Cried 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
about it." 

Let me say at once that I think that tllle event of conceiving a child, bearing a child, and giving birth to a child is blessed with a natural holiness, whether a marriage has occurred or not. I trust the moral choices that a young man or woman makes, at least to the point I would never dare to judge them to be subjectively evil. I hate to accuse anyone of being sinful, no matter how unwise or selfish I think the person's choice has been. Therefore I want to insist that none of the images of darkness, already mentioned, came to my mind as I spoke to this troubled girl. I only wanted to convince her that unborn life is altogether precious, even if it is inconvenient. We talked of homes where she could be sheltered so that her pregnancy mig. 1t not be an embarrassment; of hospitals where 
the child could be born and the cirt urn­stances of his being begotten would not be talked about; of families where the child could grow up watched by the love of his mother or the cherishing of his foster­parents. 
The young womari said: "I never thought I would be discussing things like this with a priest. Our making love together seemed to be such a private affair. 
We thought it was nobody's business but our own." 
I thought, without mentioning it, of how couples deceive themselves with glib assurances: "Who are we hurting," they say, "in celebrating our love with physical intimacies? We are not hurting ourselves; 
we need to do it for ourselves. There's no 
harm in doing it, if we love each other, and 
it's nobody's business but our own." 
Later, when the intimacies prove to be 
life-giving, nobody's business turns out to 
be everybody's business, and the hurting 
reaches as far as a family's heartbreak. 
Hearts heal quickly, however, when 
there's a child to be cuddled. 
"It could only be nobody's business," I said, "if nobody loved you." I hugged her for a moment as she began to cry. 
"It wouldn't be fair to a baby," she said, "to let him be born in shame. I'd only give him up to save him--or her--from a world where he would always have to be ashamed of his father and mother." 
"The only shame," I said, "would be in not letting him--or her--be born at all." I jotted down a word on a scrap of paper. "Look," I said, "here is the word shame. ·Watch what I do with it." I touched the paper with a match and let it burn. "That is the end of shame," I said. "Let's not mention it again. I couldn't stand having you going around acting like Hester Prynne." 
The words, though conventional, aimed at being full of light. I am only a male creature, liable to be insensitive or blind to a woman's impasse. Yet I used every argument I could think of to support thP. birth and discourage the abortion. I would have willingly laid down my life for the convictions that I spoke of. 
When the young woman left, I was convinced I had her persuaded to cancel her trip on Saturday to Chicago. At ten o'clock, she called me as she had promised she would do. 
"I've just been talking to my mother," she said. "My mother told me I would be crazy to have the baby. She told me I must be out of my mind to want to cancel the abortion." 
Mothers know more about their children than priests know. Mothers, according to the legends, have angels to assist them in being mothers. I had the terrible fear that the angel this girl's mother had been listening to was the Dark Angel. I could never tell her so because I couldn't prove it; and it would be a terrible thing to accuse a mother of being the innocent tool of a power that loves the darkness. A victory of the Dark Angel might be imagined, I guess if you're trying to explain why you've lost an argument. Yet sometimes, when you're struggling with evil, you can believe there is an intelligence behind the evil that is laughing at you. I don't have much faith in fantasies, even my own; but that evening, when I heard that the girl's mother, in opposition, in my opinion, to all God's graces, had insisted on an abortion in Chicago, I could have sworn I heard the laughter that lacks all joy.-It's probably a priest's nutsiness that makes me say it. Anyway, there was a battle lost and a victory won that night, and I know the conquering hero wasn't me. 


tfotmance ... petfotmance ..•petfotma 
"Egad, the Woman In White; or Sealed In a Madhouse!"; November 17,18,24,25,26. Curtain at 8:30 p.m. Sundays at 2 pm. Firehouse Theater, 701 Portage Avenue. $5 admission. Call 234-5696 or 233-0683 for reserVations. 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra; Novem­ber 19. 8 pm. Morris Civic Auditorium. Tickets are $6, $5, $4. 
The Sound Of Music"; November 24, 25, 8:30pm. Morris Civic Auditorium. Tickets are $8.50, $5.50, $3. 

".J 1l-IE-~ILLS A~ AL-IVE. .':. " 

r 
Vegetable Buddies; This week--N.1vember 17, 18, Duke Tumatue and The AU-Star Frogs; November 20, Clean Gene's Rhythm & Blues Express; November 21. Me and the Boys; November 22, Suurh Shore; November 24, 25. Albnt Kin~. 
"Arsenic and Old Lace"; November 17, 18. 
8:15 p.m. Theatre Wing, First Pres­byterian Church, 333 W. Colfax Avenue. $3.50 admission. Call 234-0802 for reservations. 
Ladies of Notre Dame Music Group; November 19. 1 pm. Library Auditorium and Lounge.. 
Rick Nelson and the Stone Canyon Band; November 19. 7';30 pm. Morris Civic Auditorium. Tickets are $8 and $7 for reserved seats. 


Gone With The Wind; November 17. 8 pm. November 18. 2:30, 8 pm. November 19. 
7:30 pm. Carroll Hall ( SMC). Starring Clark Gable, Vivian Leigh. 
David 0. Selznick's epic production of Margaret Mitchell's novel about the Old South during the mid-19th century. If you have four hours to spare during the weekend, try and make it to this classic. $1 admision. 
Watershlp Down; River Park. An animated version of Richard Adam's novel of the same name, produced by Martin Rosen, traces the migration of a group of rabbits who are intent upon establishing a new warren. 
One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest; Novem­ber 17,18. 7,9:15, 11:30 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher. Excellent character portrayals by the entire cast. Cuckoo's Nest received numerous Academy Awards and is seen by YJtany as a classic. This one gets better every time you see it. $1 admission. 
The Big FII; Town & Country II. Starring Richard Dreyfuss. Dreyfuss portrays private detective Moses Wine who is ·not the usual ex-cop with •II kinds of under­ground connections. The critics like it, or should I say, the critics like Dreyfuss. 
The Wild Geese; Boiler House Flix II. Starring Richard Burton, Roger Moore, Richard Harris, Hardy Kruger, Stewart Granger. A war picture, with Burton, Moore, Harris, and Kruger portraying Green Beret-type soldiers of fortune. 
Magic; Scottsdale Mall. Starring Anthony Hopkins, Ann-Margaret, Burgess Meredith, Ed Lauter. The book terrified ·me; the movie is supposed to be as good as the book, but the critics can't seem to make up their minds about it. William Goldman, who wrote the book, wrote the screenplay. 
Paradise Alley; Forum II. Starring Sylvester Stallone, Anne Archer. Most reviews have been favorable toward Stallone's third attempt at writing, directing, and starring in his own movie, although the reviewers have agreed that his ending is a copout. 

tts...spotts... sports... othet ... othet •.. 
Hockey; Michigan State vs ND. November 17, 18. 7:30 pm. ACC. 
Hockey; Michigan vs ND. November 24, 
25. 8 pm. ACC. 

Basketball; Clarke College vs ND (women). November 18. 4 pm. ACC. 
Grecian Bake Sale; November 17. 9 am to 7 pm. Good Samaritan Cultural Center. 52455 N. Ironwood. A Coffeeshop will be open to the oublic. 
.................. 
dtawlngs by 

patrick j. bytnes 


.............. 
Friday, November 17, 1978 the ObServer 
i'IMDTI..Y LEARY:t:h~lnt:ert:~alact:ic Niet:zachel 
1 
1 I paid the past a visit 1his week. The 
1 man who declared war on the adult world continues to rampage ag.tinst those dis­abling forces that snuffout spontaneity and replace it with responsibility. Timothy Leary is many things to many people, and after meeting, talking, joldng and dining 
. h h" I d" d H' I . 
wtt tm, tscovere w L•. y. ts ec ecttc philosophy, his ebullient wit. and Donald 
Duck laugh reflect a man who enjoys the 
stardom of being the Radicli High Priest of h I
t e post-po itical age.
The Psychedelic Pimp or the Sixties has 
wrinkles now. He talks alot about the future, sperm flotillas, egg wisdom, HAAAAVAAAARD, Baba Ram Das, bi­sexual vegetarians and phosphorescent wings. He chronically smiles, winks, 
exhorts, jokes. He is addicted, in addition to uncut cocaine and other niceties, to ingesting minimal quantities of H20. His passion and convictions are decidedly eccentric but irrefutably sir:cere. He thinks 
God is a She, and calls himself Robot. 
Timothy Leary. My kind (>f guy. 
Timothy Leary. The mall that launched a million acid trips and spaked a cultural revolution. The man responsible for the 
entire lifestyle whose battl~ cry was "turn on and drop out!" Milli<ms heeded the call, and America will. nner be able to 
return to those green pastures of conscious ignorance that preceded the advent of Leary. Timothy Leary, visionary and screwball turned loose during the frenzied, raucous and apocalyptic cays when rock and the New York Mets were born. During his heyday as a college professor, Timothy Leary was the scourge of Harvard, that solemn enclave of pompom: philistines and impotent intellectuals. Timothy Leary, the maverick philosopher imm)rtalized by the Moody Blues. He is a good Catholic Irishman who made all Ue right moves, then threw it all away whe!l he discovered the three most powerful letters in the alphabet: LSD. Timothy Leary, the mystic professor whose reputation grew in propor­tion to the amount of dope he disseminated to his worshipping student>. He assigned term papers on the very ac:d-induced trips which he inspired his shee1, to take. Many of the responses were oveN· helming. One student was rumored to ha•1e tried turning on his grandmother. She w1s 85. I can just imagine her metamorphosk 
Student: "Granny, how's that head­ache? Did you take the pill I gave You?"
' 

Granny: 'Like wow, my :nain man. The move is a groove. Now be a good boy and go buy me the Grateful Dead's latest 
release." 
Leary spearheaded the consciousness movement of the 60's. As we partook of the delicious foods at Boar'~ Head Tuesday 
night, I asked him to explain the most significant turning points, t!te "moments" of mutation whereby he evolved to his present level of superabundant intelli­gence. 
He explained that there were five major . mutations during a twent) year period. The first important step occurredwhen he was pioneering the humanistic psychology movement at Harvard. It was during this time he began to assume the role of Drug Messiah. Steps two and three invol~e the metamorphosis of the human caterpillar into the butterfly. Thefourthstagewasthe egg wisdom stage, or eggism. The fifth stage remains so s.e~retive that no one is vet aware of what It ts, sav~ Leary. 
. . 

After I ple~ded wtth ~urn ~o allow me to paf!ake of thts metabohc mmdblower, he de~f5ded toWte!ldme.. th fifth . I . per~ IS om Is, e I mutatiOn. t IS ~~e ultimate stat~. ?" 
But what does tt mean.

"It' · t L h 
s so amazmg no even eary as a
full handle on it vet " 

He sacrificed his Harvard credentials to be prophet to the benighted youth of the 
. . 

sixties, leadmg them from the cultural & 
conscious dungheap into the orgiastic 
. f . H 't
paradtse o actd awareness. owever, 1 was not a journey without pitfalls. Leary was bustefd man~ ti~es, anDd ~pent a number o years m pnson. urmg one stint at Folsom Prison, his cell was right next to the Helter Skelter King, Charles 
H • · b f b00ks
0
Mans?n. e ~ wnttedn ~ nuthilf! er f on htsexpenences unng sera. One o particular _note is Co~essions of a Hope 
Fiend, whtch ranks wtth Lennon Remem­bers as a telling tribute to the revolutionary
· h" h d th" d'
matnx w tc spawne ts para tgmapostle of "coping thru doping."
· · · • · 
~o what does a defrocke~ htp~te youth 
leader do when the revolution dtes? He finds another cause. Like his fellow ideologues (William Kuntsler, Tom Hay­den, Jerry Rubin et. a!.) any cause which keeps t~e spirit 'a movin-. t_he ~opeful expectatton ofthe New Age Rismg-ts good enough... Kuntsler defends oppressed black murderresses; Hayden tries the legitimate route through US politics; Rubin still hustles, but now his frontier is male sexuality. Meanwhile, Timothy continues his search for truth in extraterrestial condominiums to escape a dying planet. Soon, if Timothy acquires the right connections in NASA and HUD, we'll be absconding, during winter recess, to outer space rather than mundane Ft. Lauder­dale. His HOMES (High Orbital Mini Earths) are an incredibly enticing idea, one 1 believe is not far from being realized on a wide scale. 
After the Henry Edwards lecture, I drove Timothy to the Morris lrin. Zach, his fiVF year old, blond-haired godchild and hei apparent, lay resting on Tim's shoulder. The urchin was exhausted from a long day, and was in need of a warm bed. On the way over, I inquired if Timothy believed there existed any essential difference between tlte students of the sixties and those he encountered at Notre Dame and other colleges in the seventies.
" d 1 Th 1
Most efinite y. e young peop e today are advanced in the most important category: intelligence. . Young people on 
campuses in America are certainly better informed than their predecessors." 
· 

I was not satisfied; ibis answer seemed too pat, almost programmed. "But how can you say that? ·In many ways, I perceive a tremendous lack of passion among today's youth. Social awareness is not as 1intensive as in the sixties." . He agreed, but insisted that intelligence 
is the key, and that the youth are better informed. He complimented the entire ND student body on a number of occasions, remarking that he was amazed by their attentiveness and inquisitive spirit. He told me that ND students were about the highest quality he has encountered anywhere since he began lecturing in the early sixties. I interjected that the reason why was Father Hesburgh has the nece~­
sary heavenly connections, insuring ND of 
the finest sperm-egg flotillas. He laughed. "Timothy, what about Harvard, any regrets?" "Are you kidding? 1 am the greatest 
f . success story of the twenti­h tu 1 t ht th t nl' ht
et cen ry. aug ere o e tg en
d dify th t 200 fr 
an e ose an s. years om now
they'll remember Harvard for one reason: the school that fired Leary." 
. · · . . 
"When dtd your own consctousness begm 
to emerge, what influences and people 
. h L h h . ?"
made Ttmot y eary t e person e ts. Puffing on his Sherman cigarette, he 
said that ~ince he watsh6 yearts old,Hhe saw
11

men as ttt e more an an s. e .was determined not to be one of them. Why Harvard? To enlighten and prepare those 
h' h d t k
nervoud~ systems w tch wietre retally oAma ~ the ra tea1move tot e n ers e ar. ge.th~ught about death and personal tmmor­tahty. 
"Dr. Leary, how long do you expect to
I' ?"

tve. "As long as I desire. What is to stop
? M t 

~e. . Y.•~ervous sys em can go on m~~fimt_ely. . . . But tf you had_tog~~~ an approximate tt~;· w~at would tt be. . 
Chns, !fully expect to hve to be several hundred !,ears old, maybe more. Depends on Z~ch. . 
~0

Wtth that comme~t, 1 pulled up the entrance of the Morn~ Inn. He gractously thanke~ me for _th~ rtde, and told me to r~lay hts appreciation for the coverage of hts lecture to the Observer staff. 
"Tell them all that Y?U have, by far, the best a~d most. professtonal coll~.ge news­paper 1~ Amenca .. I ~ean that. . 
He dtd rave earher m the evenmg about the ~ro~t J?age coverage,. as well as the sophtsttcatlOn of the reportmg. He seemed g~nuinely tol!ched, like a child g!owing wtth the recetpt of an unexpected gtft. 
Although I thought that would be the last of our encounters, it was a prelude to a later rendevous. I went to pick up Henry Edwards. E~ward~ is more retice~t than Leary. Effemmate m manner, baldmg and insecure, the former New York Times rock critic earned a controversial reputation for his seering reviews of performers that other publications usually applauded. He also wrote the screenplay for Sgt. Pepper, and recently completed one for a film based on Leary's life. It's called The Man Who Turned On The World, and will be
·1 bl e bl' · · · '80
avat a e tOr pu tc vtewmg m summer . 
· · · 11 f N y k
Edwards ts ortgma y rom ew or , so our immediate co.nvers. ation tur.ned to the
A 1 1 d h {. t
Big pp e. mt~rvJewe tm or en minutes at the Morrts Inn, and came away
'th f d · t' th t "th th
WI a pro oun convic ton a wt e right connec~ions, anybo~y could b~ a star. I· asked htm about hts role wtth Sgt. Pepper. He claimed Peter Frampton was ill~cast. He mentioned _that Robert Sttgwood was a nuclear famtly man. He predicted the Leary flick would be contro­yersial. Other conversa~ion wa~ somewhat mchoate, He ~as speedmg~ wht_ch seemed totally appropnat~ for the sttua~lOn: Leary walked m, and wtth a large grm, tmmed­
•ately ~ent over to hug ~dwards. Edwards was still nervous over hts lecture. He told me it was the first one he ever attempted. I ~ol~ him the cr?wd's enthusias~ic reaction md~cated ~e dtd well. He stghed, ~nd restgned htmself to whatever was troubhng him. 
Leary suggested we all go out and eat. by Christopher Antonio Stewart 
He was starving. After a stop at the Moonraker, we decided to go Boar's Head. As soon as we entered, John Koluz, head of Academic Commission, feigned punch­ing Timothy in the stomach. Leary, always the clown sprawled onto the floor. He 
,
remained there for a good ten seconds; the 
waite~s though~ ~e were nuts. . Afther 
ordenng, Leary mststed upohf! enteaknnbg ~ e 
kitchen He wanted to see IS ste emg 
· 1 t . 'ld a tics with wry
cookedk. ~ er~phersn~gkwt dn a generally
remar s tmpts wm s an
' L ry discombobu­
outrageous man!ler, . ~: eciall the ~~~~e:::::o~e:o:~gwaltr::~ left lor the . h .1 f; d us of who ,her 
ev~n:~gt s e ~ o;meleaving we all gave .
1
shu s u e wdasf. elore ' 
er a roun o app ause.
Nearby a woman was kneeling at a t bl Le' t d I get up and look s~nc:·I wa:r.in~~f!~: :ee her from my seat.' 
A arentl a sliver of the woman's thigh 
pp ye,d d Leary wanted to share 
was expos , an
th' 1 tio ith his comrades The ts reve a Len w t'ng qut'ckly r~cover 
woman saw ary gaz , ­
ed her poise. The Peeping Tim Leary, the 
exhibitionist with the flare for the absurd. 
On the way back, he mentioned his 
desire to attend the upcoming USC-ND 
football game in LA. Could we get him a 
ticket? He postulated that his presence at 
the game would definately add two points 
to ND's favor. Jimmy the Greek beware. 
We stopped at Gippers: Edwards, no football buff, asked me who the Gipper was. ("Fr. Hesburgh," I replied.) Leary tired of the insipid environs within thirty seconds. We left immediately. Just before 1 exiting, Leary noticed the picture of Knute Rockne on the wall. He asked Edwards if he knew who it was. 
"Naturally, that's K~ute Rockne.'' 
"He looks a helluva lot like-Pat O'Brien." . . 
At the Moon~aker a sh~rt whtle _later, Edwards verbahzed a naggmg phobta. "I'm uneasy because there's no Jews here. Jews emanate an incredible, surging energy in the discos back East. By the way, is this where all the 'with it' hang out?" 
"Henry, South Bend doesn't have any 'with it' people. They all moved to Chicago seeking that Great Disco in the Sky." 
I told him to be ever mindful of the fact that the cultural wasteland of the Midwest contains few of the amusements he is used to
'"And remember, Henry, there are not Studio 54's west of the Hudson River, not 
<even poor imitations.'' 
I struck a nerve. Henry asked me if I've 
ever been to Studio 54, the world's leading 
disco and hangout for the media heavy-
h 
weights. I explained I tried once, butt e 
cr~;.~w:!dt.~~~g;HERE'S a place where 
1 can boogie. New York has it all." 
I agreed. The Yankees, the Big Apple, 
Studio 54. What other city compares? 
Timothy wryly remarked that the police-I 
man stationed in the lobby of the 
Moonraker made him uneasy. 
"I come out to party and feel like I'm in 
prison... 
We dropped them off soon thereafter. 
Tim thanked us for a splendid evening. As 
he stood near the car, he shook my hand, 
winked that famous wink, saying: 
"See you in EL LAY." 
Timothy Leary. Prophet, man-child, 
futant, human Super Nova. My kind of 
guy. 

--~----------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
Thurber II 

On Wednesday night, William Windom returned to Washington Hall for a second delightful year of Thurber. The near­c~pacity crowd bore witness to an amusing display of cartoons and monologues written by the great James Thurber, and loved it. Windom, who won an Emmy for his starring role in the television series "My World ... and Welcome to It" is perhaps the most brilliant interpreter of the works of Thurber. Since 1972 he has toured this 
country and abroad performing such works. Windom does not, however, confine himself to one show; he performs "Thurber I", which, as we saw last year, 
-was solely Thurber monologues, and also "Thurber II", which was Wednesday's performance. He also performs "Ernie Pyle" land II, which features early middle of the century wisdom, wit and enter­tainment. Why such a variet'J of shows? Mr. Windom merely does not wish to get bored with. them. 
by Pat Byrnes 

The set was a desk at one end of the stage 
and a stool at the other. When the lights 
dimmed signifying the beginning of Act I, 
a single light pierced the darkness and 
shone on a screen spanning the stage. It 
showed a series of slides of Thurber 
cartoons, featuring Pierre Gustav Toutant 
Beauregard, the gentle, insecure, peace­
loving dog who was a favorite of Thurber. 

Immediately following this presentation, 
Windom piped in with the humorous 
account of the plight of a fullgrown man 
walking a Scottish Terrier in a tough 
neighborhood where "men are guys". 
This was a classic depiction of so many of the quirks, cowardices, and vanities frighteningly characteristic of men. This, like the rest of Thurber's works, was a ·simple testimony to the author's keen 
observation. 

Much of the works of Thurber center 
around men and women and the battle of 
the sexes. He deftly pierces the veil of 
[continued on page 10] 


.,----~--~.-------------------~--------------~-----------------------.-----------------------------------------------------,-------------------------­

Friday, November 17, 1978 
---------'--'------­


At seventy-nine percent 
Campaign for ND nears goal 
by Laura Larimore program. national solicitation, be­'.The endowment component in­· Staff Reporter gins next spring. Cities across the cludes 40 new professorships, five nation will launch local drives from visitij1g professorships. funds for,
"The Campaign for Notre Dame," the Umversity's fund rais­March through June. academic support, student assist­
Campaign co-chairmen John T. ance, enhancing religious values.
ing program, has reached 79 Ryan of Pittsburgh and Ernestine and :general needs. The $29.3
percent of its $130 million goal in Carmichael Radin of South Bend million allotted for physical facili­18 months. 
have announced that the fund ties. will be used for expansion and At the October trustees meeting raising drive would enter its nation­renovation of engineering facilities, the national committee for the al campaign phase "with impres­chemical research, a classroom­Campaign reported that $102.4 
sive momentum directly traceable faculty office building, expansionmillion had been raised from a total to superb volunteer effort." of the art gallery, new graduateof 34,864 gifts and committments. 
Of the total goal of $130 million, and undergraduate residence halls, Since then, Harold E. Van Huffel, a 71 percent has been restricted for renovation of present residencemember of the class of 1927, has endowment, 23 percent for physical halls and the administration build­contributed $150,000 for use in the facilities, and 6 percent for current ing, as well as general campusPresident's EndQwed Discretionary use. improvements.
Fund, and the partners of Deloitte Haskins & Sells, an international accounting firm, have pledge $200,000 to the College of Business Administration. 
Thurber II 

The chief objective of the cam­paign is to add $92 million to Notre Dame's endowment of$114 million [continued from page 9) pride. Both are too-blind to see or in order to preserve academic absurdity that drapes over the admit the foolishness that accom­quality in the face of inflation. It is relationships between men and panies their state. Thurber, how­currently the 14th largest project of women. He shows both sexes in ever, made light of the situation,its type underway in American alltheir strengths and weaknesses, and, of course, took it to its higher education. 
dueling in head-to-head battles extremes. He was a great master Started in April of 1977, the that neither can win; woman is of the subtlety and depiction of this campaign was planned to last five bogged down in the bitterness, and basic human state, and Windom years. The next phase of the man is. lost in the ignorance of his presents this with incomparable 
dexterity. More than once during 
his performance, Windom stopped to add a personal note about a sketch or Thurber, without step­ping out of character. The result is impressive, because the character Windom portrays is a convencingly human person rather than an actor. 
Among the more memorable routines was Thurber's collection of generalizations. These included, "There are no pianos in Japan," "Generals are afraid of their daughters," jind other cherished gems. Windom pointed out that women generalize three to five times as much as men, which to me seemed rather amusing since it was a generalization in itself. 
Another bit worthy of note was a series of Thurber sketches showing Christmas in such places as "a few miles outside of Bismark, North Dakota,·· and, to the delight of the spectators, "near South Bend, Indiana". These drawings con­sisted of a single wavy line again a white background. This elicited a hearty reponse from the ND snow­loving crowd. 
Windom was not just amusing, though. Many of his monologues 

were quite sad. Windom presented these monologues with all of the insight of the author himself. After so stirring the audience, Windom would often bounce back with witt}l fables with equally witty morals, which produced a wide range of guffaws and groans from the listeners. Thus one had to be on 
STEREO LPS 
one's toes, ready to laugh or cry at any moment. 
SERIES 798 
BILLY JOEL 

Also among Windom's reper­
521111 STREET 

toire was the reading of a short 
1r\Ciud10g 

short story b Thurber which 
appeared in a 1928 New Yorker
Un111 The N1ght 

$4.99 
magazine. Thurber was one of the 
Myl•lr 

founding fathers of the New Yorker
B•gShol 
INNER SECRETS 

where his short stories and car­
Hones-ty 1nclud1ng 
Well All Rtght/One Ch1nn (Don t Make No Pnson) 
toons used to appear quite regular­
Shlet1o Oealer/Spant&h Rose/Stormy 10pen lnv1tat•on 

ly. Windom put on a show of simple 
P~CTU RED ITEMS ONLY. 
entertainment which was very en­joyable. Although his program last year was more vibrant (it included more of Thurber's pure satire), Windom still managed to receive a standing ovation at the end of his performance as a tribute to his acting skill. I liked both Thurber I and II, and would be more than happy--and not too surprised--if Windom returns next year with a "Thurber III" 
SMC law society 

holds meeting 

The Saint Mary's Law Society will hold a mandatory meeting on Sundav. Dean Waddick from Notre Dame: will speak on "How to Prepare for Law School." 
The t!neeting will be held in Room . Jfll .I+'Nttns _at. ~.:30. p_-m: • All interested. i\~r-!'>'Jl'l!f· ilqe· ":''ilfHijllfl 
San Fra1ncisco highl.y values cable cars 
SAN FRANasco [APJ-They're cranky, cantakerous, constantly crowded, slower than walking and a threat to life and limb. But cable cars are San Francisco's calling card to the world,. and the city hangs onto them like a dowager to her first bouquet. 
On Tuesday, an accident threw a gripman through a windshield and injured 13 passengers. City of­ficials apologize for such acddents, then shrug them off and vow to keep the things rolling. 
It's certainly not for money or speed. The system loses $3 million annually and the underground cable runs no faster than 9 rniles an hour. Grumbled one r·~sident, "They don't climb halfwa~· to the stars. They barely make it up Nob Hill." 
According to the Municipal Rail­way, which operates the cable cars along with city streetcars and buses, 490 accidents occurred in the last fiscal year on the c 1ble car line. Most involved damage to other vehicles, and none involved fatalities. But at least 164 involved injuries, and there have b~en tow deaths the past five years. 
Riders total 14.5 million annual­ly, about 60 percent tourists. The 26 six-ton cars, built decadf sago of brass and wood and stamina, carry 40,000 pasengers daily up hills with grades up to 21 percent. 
The two-bit fare is said to be the best deal in this city where nothing else so good costs so little. 
But automobiles sometimes sweep too close, brushing passen­gers on the running boards. Those who don't hang on can get flung off by the force of the cars' jerky turns. 
A cable car is the only vehicle in California authorized to bypass stop signs -but many automobile drivers don't know that. 
A study last year said the system needed new brakes, and the cable cars' 135-man crew staged ·,a wild­cat strike after Tuesday's accident to protest what they said was inadequate supervision and main­tenance. 
On Thursday, cars were running again after an agreement on safety 
procedures  was  reached  and  
several  sections  of  track  were  
inspected.  

The city plans to spend at least $7 million modernizing cable car equipment, replacing the 10 miles of track and building a few new cars, with work to begin next fall. 
Reed Jordan, general claims agent for the system, said about $500,000 in personal injury claims were paid out in 1977-78 as a result of cable car accidents. Asked if the cars are safe, he replied: "Well, the public demands them. They are in the city charter. We make them as safe as is possible for equipment that has been in opera­tion for over 100 years." 
In 1873, when the first cars clinked up Nob Hill, "the only thing they had to compete with was an occasional horse and buggy," said Jim Leonard of the city's Public Utilities Commission. Now, he said, officials would like to ban automobiles from all cable car routes -but chances of that are slim. 
Seattle police seek 'shoe ~;natcher' 
SEATTLE !API -Pclice are 
looking for <t man who at least three 
times in three months has attacked 
women pede~trians. knocking them 
down and running off with one of 
his victim's high-heeled s1oes. 
"The guy definitely is different. 
thcrc's no question about that," Lt. 
Robert Holter. police robbery com­
mander, said yesterday. ' He's got 
a fetish. Some people have! fetishes 
for clothing--bras, women's under­
clothes--this man has a fetish for 
shoes." 
Holter said that besides the 
known incidents, other cases may 
have gone unreported be,:ause "a 
lot of women would rathf:r not go 
through the problems of making a 
report and hav'ng to explll in this." 
So far none of the women has 
been injured. Holter said authori­
ties do not know whether tJ classify 
the incidents as thefts, se:c crimes, 
or assaults. 
But he said police are anxious to 
catch the man as soon as possible. 
''This type of thing could possibly 
lead to more aggressive interests,'' 
Holter said. 
''I'm not sure how long a person 
like this can be satisfied with 
shoes. The chance of injury is 
always there." 
Boots and shoes are known to 
arouse some people sexu<lly. 
"We all have some mild fetish," said Dr. Stanley Sue, ll clinical psychologist at the Unh ersity of Washington. "It is a problem when it becomes the prim.1ry mode of satisfaction." 
The latest shoe atta( k came Tucsday, when a high-heded shoe was yanked off the foct of an 18-year-old woman who '''as walk­ing along a street in Raini('r Valley. a high-crime area of Seatt ,e. police said. The other attacks dso have occurred there. 
Holter said the victim rf ported a man came up behind her and grabbed her by the foot. She fell to the ground, and the assailant twisted off her shoe and d 1shed off between houses. 
"He picks younger women in high heels,'' Holter said. 
"They've been fortunate that their age has been to their advan­tage and they haven't bef·n hurt." 
The latest victim "wasn't really alarmed," Holter said. 
"She didn't think it was funny, but wasn't terrified either. She found it incredulou!>. She couldn't believe anyone would do that.·, 
Holter said the case is "not one of those things that we can afford tu drop everything else and work on. If more information carne in, somebody would pursue it." 
He said police have no substantial leads and none of the victims has been able to provide a good description. 
Texas Club gathers 

The Texas Club will hold a meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Farley Lounge. All members and potential members are invited: dues for the year are $3. At the meeting a ski trip will be discussed and members of the varsity football team who reside in Texas will speak. 
111 e»-J11;) C»l1 e»-CJa.J() 



head-spinning haircut sale! 
regularly s7...two weeks only 
5.00 
last two weeks of permanent wave sale! reg. 125 
Get your perm for the holidays. Price in­cludes cut, shampoo and styling. Call lS.SO 233-411 I, ext. 275, for appointment. IIAUTY IAION-ICXIH IIOOW-WOIIWISON'S 



EXTKA. MID~ITh s:U:OWS 
FRIDAY&: SATURDAY 
1:30-3:40-5:45-7:50-10-12:00 
... Richard
-0 Dreyfuss..-
-(U Moses Wine 0 Private Detective. 
n;Fn 


r------.---------------~---~------­
12 the observer 

Creative hair designs for men and women 
;:tr -.REDKEN 
Hours Tues 
Wed -Thurs Fri Sat 
Call today lor an appointment 
234-6767 

Live from England 
?."~='·
=a:il:

.............,..,.
-1111 ti!J ••a• WYW _,•
1• .. •11 IIU!2WI'UII .., ..... 
,......1......11 ,.. •• • •••• 
-··-····.. .... ..... 
~· 


Suzanne Ell<;worth enjoys a jog around the Angela Athletic Facility [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
For nuclear weapons 
Spy planes scout Cuba 
............................,
: Put a little music in your life ... At the NAZZ + 
: rQibay 9 -11 'CJ:~azy laRRY' i
i 

11 -12 'smoky )oe' ~otk ROck .: 
+ satuROay 9:3o th€ 'lu an·n' Banb 
: reatuRJO(j kevtn QUt(jley anb RICh PR€SIOSO :
. .
' ~-·--· 
............................. 
ND vs Georgia Tech 
Kegger Special at 

WAYNE~S lJAK DAIRY PARTY STOR 
WllH EACH KEG PURCHASED Keg Party Package WE WILL SUPPLY AT NO CHARGE 
niles mich. 50 cups statdine line rd. 

WASHINGTON [AP] • U.S. Air Force SR-71 spy planes, the most sophisticated in the world. have flown over Cuba in an effort. to determine whether new Soviet­built MiG-23 fighter planes based there are capable of firing nuclear weapons, administration sources said Thursday night. 
The SR-71 overtlights, which must have been approved by President Carter. are considered so sensitive that most government officials were ordered to remain silent about them. 
White House officials refused to comment on the flights. neither confirming or denying them. 
Other sources, refusing to be identified, said the SR-71 is using its very sensitive . cameras and other sensors in its attempt to establish whether the MiG-23s, which reportedly arrived in Cuba in October, are strictly air defense versions or are capable of carrying nuclear \\capons. 
A 1962 understanding between the . United States and Russia, following a ncar-war crisis over the presence of Russian offensive mis­siles in Cuba, rules out any Soviet nuclear weapons on the island republic which is just 90 miles from the United States. 
U.S. officials arc known to have been deeply concerned ever since it was established by intelligence that the Russians had sent to Cuba MiG-23s, one of the most advanced of Russia's fighter aircraft. 
The planes had arrived in crates aboard a Russian freighter and officials told the Associated Press in late October there were 18 to 20 of them. comprising about a squad­ron. 
Previously, Russia had periodi­cally sent Cuba MiG-21 fighters, which are principally air defense planes armed with conventional weapons. This violated no U.S. 
understandings between the  Uni­ 
ted States and Russia.  
The  SR-71,  successor  to  the  

notorious U2 spyplane of the 1950s, can operate its cameras and other sensors from altitudes of 100.000 feet or more and the Air Force has claimed it can photograph ane area as large as Florida in one picture. 
However, in this case, its target-­the MiG-23s--would require. precise photography, possibly from a lower altitude. 
NO Graduate students elect officers 
Notre Dame's Graduate Student Union was reinstated on Nov. 6 with the election of officers for the 1978-79 academic year. Mary McCann of the Department of English will serve as president Betty Jean Valdez of Psychology will fill the position of vice-presi­dent, and Wilson Miscamble, Susan Roberts, Bill Alban, Chct MitchP.ll and Doug Borgatti •Will· 
comprise •the executive committtee. 
The Graduate Student Union hopes to be of maximum service to Notre Dame's graduate student body.. Students wishing to share suggestions or ideas are encou­raged to contact the officers or their departmental representatives. 

Friday, November 17, 1978 the ObServer 13 
. : TIMM PARTY STORE I '*~ OPEN:MON-SAT 9am-11pm *I * SUNDAY12noon-11pm * 
: BEERSALE :
* . * 
:3114 S.11ST. NILES,MICHIGANI
* 1 Block North of StJte Line on U.S. 31 * 
****************************** 
The New Notre Dame Fight Song: 
The University of Notre Dame band, the 133-year old organization Dame president, said the gift ''The Little Blue Nun· Replies'' , the oldest in the nation, now makes 60 to 70 public appearances "recognizes that student organiza­has an endowment. Offi:ials annually on the campus and during tions and activities are an integral -a 33% mini album 
the Excel Foundation of El~ hart tours across the nation. Perform­part of the educational experience ave announced plans to provide a 
ance costs, the purchase of new at Notre Dame." -a true collector's item ift of $50,000 .over the next five music and arrangements, main­Band director Robert F. O'Brien 
-a great holiday gift 

tenance of instruments and uni­said the grant would greatly assist forms are among expenses to be in maintaining the organization' 
to be used in par1 ially 

'""'"~"'"' the band's expenses.
numbering 187 ir, the partially offset by income from the musical quality. 
On sale in the Library Concourse
Excel endowment. The Excel firm is a mately 60 in the concert 
marching band and 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Notre of autoiTlQtive parts for cars, trucks buses and recreational vehicles. Nov. 19,20, 21 6:00 to 11 :00 
Army chorus plans concert 
The United States Army Chorus, directed by Major Allen Ctowell, will perform as part of the E:Jkhart Symphony Society's "Friendly Season" concert series tomotrow at 8:15p.m. and Sunday at 4 p.m. 
The concert, co-sponsor·~d by 
W.T. Armstrong Inc. and the First National Bank, will be held at the Concord Performing Arts Center in Elkhart. Admission is by >eason ticket only. Se!lson ticket ht>lder s my bring guests to either concert at no charge. 
Based near Arlington Cemetary across the Potomac from the Ken­nedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Chorus performs through­out Washington at social and diplomatic events. They have performed in places ranging from Carnegie hall in new York City to the President's state dinner for the Apollo Eleven astronauts in Los 
Angeles, and in every major city as well as hundreds of universities and colleges throughout the nation. The Chorus, founded in 1956, 
collegiate crossword 
ACROSS 51 Slangy head 
53 "And mine ­1 Cowboy's panatela one"-Shakespeare 6 Footwear component 54 Pulver's rank 
14 One-celled animals 16 Dealer in women's hats 17 Cut into small pieces 18 Distance from the x-axis 
19 Suffix for differ 
20 Military headdress 
22 Senator Inouye 
23 Dickens girl 
25 "-so manychildren... " 28 Prefix: wine 29 Vergil hero (var.)
31 Flaming 
32 Kitty's cry 
33 Quite a few 
35 Ending for ham or sem. 36 Certain par_t of Congress (2 wds.) 
42. Mr. Bellow 43 Medium session 44 Have title to 47 Sa1t trees 49 "Darn it!" 50 ----volente 
(abbr.) 55 Metallurgy device (var.) 57 Organization for 
Hale Irwin 5€ Legato's opposite62 Organized massacre 64 Actor who played 
Gene Krupa (2 wds.) 6~· Calm 61· Concisely witty 
phrase 6:' Lock of hair 
DOWN 

I Uniformity ? High rank or 
position3 "-My Mind" ~As easy as ­5 Actress Charlotte, 
and family 
10 -Yutang
11 Wreath for the head 12 Fuel hydrocarbon 13 Before this time 
(poet.) 15 Old-English letters 21 Shout of discovery 24 Zhivago's love 26 Oratorio solos 27 All dressed up30 -example 34 Alliance acronym 37 Divided skirt 38-avis 39 Painting the town 
red (3 wds.)40 Stop sign shapes 41 French ladies 44 City in Texas 
45 Started a fight 
(2 wds.) 46 -diet 48 Road ;ign52 Napoleo~ and Haile 
Sela<;' '•' irlbbr.) 56 Robert Burns, fo,· one 

6 A speakeasy, nearly 59 Roman qo1 
alwdys (2 wds.) 60 Armed forces head 7 Emporer of note (abbr. ) 8 Like Methuselah 61 Black cuckoo 9 Mr. Wallach 63 Dog's snarl 
selects its 30 singers from through­out the United States and is the premiere choral organization of the United States Army. 
The first half of tomorrow night's program will feature the music of Schubert and Dvorak, while the second half will include glee club­style singing from drinking songs by Poulenc, Holst, Villa-Lobos, and Zeiter to traditional American songs (such as "Love's Old Sweet Song") to "Three Railway Madri­gals" by Jenkins. . 
Major Allen Crowell, executive officer of the U.S. Army Band since 1976 and director of the U.S. Army Chorus since 1964, is a graduate of Princeton's prestigious Westmin­ster Choir Col1ege and holds the Master of Music degree from Catholic University of America. 
He is a frequent vocal soloist with many orchestras in the United States and works closely with youths throughout the nations conducting All-State band and choral workshops as well as festi­vals and clinics in hundreds of high schools and colleges. 
Proceeds benefit: 
Big Brothers/ Big Sisters of St. Joseph County 
Mighty Mouth. 
Big Mouth from Mickey's Malt Liquor 
Big Mouth from Mickey's Malt Liquor 
G. Heileman Brewing
Company, Inc. La Crosse, Wisconsin 

31 E-Z MARKET 
Open 7 days a week 7am -IOpm 
Comer of Auten Road, I miie south of state iine 
PBR ss. 89  24 loose  
BUD  $3.29  12 pak  
HAMM'S $2. 75  12-pak  

&at· the HIGH ~Aichigan prices 1 Quantity discounts on BEER~WINE, ~SODA CHECKS CASHED FOR NOTRE DAME ~ ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
Friday, November 17, 1978
14 the observer 

Irish to tangle with Georgia Tech 
.,............ 
[continued from page 16} 

another with a 30-yard interception return. 
The defensive unit will line up with Jay Case and John Hankerd at the ends and Jeff Weston and Calhoun at the tackles. The team's leader in tackles, Bob Golic, will be at middle linebacker, flanked on his left by Steve Heimkreiter and either Mike Whittington or Pete Johnson at right linebacker. The secondary will have Tom Gibbons and Dave Waymer at the corners, 

I J'.EALL'( !)OtJ'T BfLIEVE 1Jj15­
~S IT iS Ai.M05f 1HE ENP CfF NOI&115ER, AND -nlE. IIJEAlkE~ IS 51lL.L. ~11RIL .' 
and Jim Browner and Restic at safeties. 
Offensively the Irish will once again boast a big weight advantage in the front line. NO's front five average 253 pounds per man and will be lining up against a quick Tech defense whose front five average only 218 pounds. Merv Johnson's offensive unit may try to outmuscle the Yellowjackets, just as it did Navy. 
However, the rushing attack may be weakened by the loss of fullback 
1JE~E~ '-JOT E.IJE.N A HIIJT a:: COI-'D-~YeE AFTER LAST YEAR 'Tt!E. Wi~R. I.S ALL SNOWED O<JT-• •
.. 

GOOD THRU NOV. 24 
~------------... 
WILL sI~
I GIVE I 
I YOU I
I W lth purchase of any two meals I
1 at reQular menu price. With this coupon .• Umit one coupon per customer. .I
I 

u.s 31 (DIXIEWAY) NORTH in ROSELAND 
(ACROSS FROM HOUDAYINN) 
PHONE 272-7433 
Jerome Heavens, who sat out most of last weeks's game with a sore knee. If Heavens is unable to play, the fullback spot may be split among Pete Pallas, Dave Mitchell and freshman Pete Buchanan, who scored his first collegiate touch­down against Tennessee. Vagas Ferguson will be at tailback, and after last week's 97-yard effort, Vagas needs only 95 yards Satur­day to reach the 1000-yard mark. 
Joe Montana will be facing a Tech secondary which has allowed only 48 percent completions. Kris Haines has been Montana's favor­ite target with 19 receptions for an impressive 24.8 average and three touchdowns. The other receivers will be flanker Pete Holohan (14 receptions for 204 yards) and tight end Dennis Grindinger, who caught five of his season's total of 14 passes last week. 
The front line will include Rob Martinovich and Tim Foley at tackles, Jim Hautman and Tim Huffman at guards, and Dave Huffman over the ball. As a result of his three field goals last week, Chuch Male is now second in team scoring behind Ferguson with 36 points on 12-12 extra points and eight of 10 three pointers. 
The Yellowjackets will line up in a 3-4 defense which has been susceptible to the run this season, as Tech has allowed 198 yards per game on the ground. The front three include ends AI Richardson and Mark Bradley flanking fresh­man Marvin Dyett. The strength of the defense lies in the four line­backers, who are the top four tacklers on the team. Juniors Mackel Harris, Mike Helm, and Henry Johnson, and sophomore Ivey Stokes rely on their quickness and agility to back up the line. The secondary includes Don Patterson and Ken Taylor at the corners, with Lawrence Lowe and Don Bessillieu at the safeties. 
With Bowl bids due to be announced Saturday night, the Irish need an impressive showing at 'Grant Field as they try for their 23rd win against only four losses in the Georgia Tech series. It should be a hard-hitting contest as Pepper Rodgers will no doubt use the revenge motive to get his players ready. The Irish will be hopeful to gain a little revenge of their .own for the 23-14 loss to Tech two years ago, which cost them a shot at a major Bowl. 

Boilers, Wolves in dogfight 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. [AP] -Ohio State is Michigan's arch football rival, with Michigan State close behind, but lately Purdue has issued a notice that it doesn't want to be slighted. 
In 1976, the Boilermakers upset Michigan 16-14 at West Lafayette, Ind. It was the only reg lar season game the Wolverines 1oM. 
In 1977, Michigan avenged that setback in the same stadium with a 40-7 triumph. 
In 1978? 

For a change, the Boilermakers aren't the spoilermakers any more. All they have to do to claim the Big Ten championship is defeat Michi­gan in Ann Arbor on Saturday, then handle Indiana the final game of the season. 
A victory by the 15th-ranked Boilermakers over sever.ih-ranked Michigan would be an upset, to be sure -but not of the magnitude of the 1976 game. And this time Purdue has something to gain besides prestige. It hasn't had sole possession of a Big Ten title since 1929. 
"We're still in first place and in control of our own destiny," said Purdue Coach Jim Young, former top assistant to Michigan Coach Bo Schembechler. 
"The Michigan game is 'The' game for us as far as our oppor­tunity to win the Big Ten cham­pionship," Young said. 
Needless to say, Schembechler realizes the game is just as important to his players -who have already lost to Michigan State. 
Schembechler said Purdue has a better defense than any team Michigan has played this year in its 8-1 record. (Purdue is 7-1-1). 
haunted Book5hop 
52081 U~S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 Phone {219) 277-1067 Park free next door at Karl Weis Body Shop 
Do your Christmas shopping early. Hardbounds from 50~ Paperbacks from s~ 
Ed Kintz and Tom Gerencher proprietors 
Hours: 
·v~m dvJp mltollllted b4 tlte ghoots ci oQQ 
Tues.-Sat. 10am-9pm 
gJteOt Qileilotulre ...moQnutltition ~ the ltOOdlllg 
Sunday 12pm-5pm 
~cuQt4 mo selti.OuS tltillq." 

Closed on Mondays 
C. uUot&e4 
--~---------­
--------------·-----------~------------------~-----------------------------­
CLASSIFIED ADS ­
Me, 
Jim Speier & co., ENGINEERS needed in developing na·
If it wasn't tor night editors who put in so Thanks for the great entertainment at tions to build dams, construct wells,FOR RENT Need ride to S. Indiana-Louisville area tor many personals you would not have such dinner, especially Greg! bridges, roads and reservoirs. Design
a big paycheck!
FOR RENT: 2nd semester or longer; : Thanksgiving. Call 288-8235 after 6:00 electrical installations & industrial pro­
bedroom house on beautifully wooded 1.1. p.m. Margie Greg, , jects. Contribute to a better world. 
acres with trout stream; gas heat How do you like all these personals? Contact Peace Corps 'through the Notre 
fireplaces; can be rented furnished o · Will have Mob connections Fix game if do. To "B" and "D" at Dillon, Sorry about Dame and Saint Mary's Placement 
unfurnished 7343 or 684-6620. PARIETALS! Hope you're still on SteveN.,
not receive 2 USC tix. Offices. Representatives will conduct -Scott 289-1158 campus. Seeing the hurt in those beautiful blue interviews at Notre Dame on Nov. 20 and 
LOST &FOUND Love "P" eyes of yours, I just had to put in <. 21, and on Nov. 20 at Saint Mary's. Make Missing-Class ring initials TCK-80. Need ride to S.W. Wisconsin. Madison­personal for you, appointments through your placementFound missing Sunday. Graduatio11 Dubuque -Tim 1207. Dear Orb Love Kissy Lips office. Pickup information at the table in present from parents. Please call nm at I hope everything works out between us the Library Concourse. 1850 or 17756-No questions asked-Than< Ride needed tor two to Chattanooga, and even your friends The second "Geek" Norton quote of the you. TN.-Thanksgiving break 8130. Love M week, is: Why Jim! What do you mean BUSINESS majors. Challenging oppor­
by that remark tunities available now with Peace Corps
Found: Yellow tiger kitten about 8 wee~s Need ride to New Jersey for Thanks­To The UBS Factor GEEK! GEEK! GEEK! and VISTA. Talk to a representative
{lid. Found Friday (pm) between Stadiwn giving break. Can leave Tuesday, P.M ... To the people of Dillon who know through the Notre Dame and Saint I 
and ACC parking lot. Call 234-4692/23:~-or Wednesday, A.M. Call Val at 1234 anything about shedding tonage, call Paddlefishers: Get soaked to. the gills Mary's Placement offices. Representa­
6509. 1697 and let the fat child in the city in on
before 5or 277-3076 after 5. today from 3-6 at Nickle's Tank. tives will conduct interviews at Notre 
your tips 
Dame on Nov. 20 and 21, and on Nov. 20 LOST: Gold Cross pen with name call PROOF READER The FCC is an MCP, but he's admitted at Saint Mary's. Make appointments3558. Experienced The second of eight great hockey week­that everyone on the staff is "above his through your placement office. flick upFull time, must have good background in ends is here. Come help the Irish smash class." That's perfectly understandable, Information at the table In the library
LOST: Multicolored glasscase wil h technical bulletins, publications, and full the Spartans of MSU-7:30 tonight and because his mind is in the gutter. concourse.
glasses inside. Reward Call Cindy 7907. knowledge of proof readers marks. Call tomorrow at the ACC-Be there! Signed Anonamous Friend Jim Cook, AVE MARIA PRESS, Notre I.e. J. McGrath FRANCAIS. Est-ce que vous voulez faire 
LOST: Eyeglasses-pale peach frames n Dame 283-7116. ATTENTION ND-SMC STUDENTS: quelque chose de special avec votre 
red leather case-Reward 232-2839. Hockey tickets tor the Dec. 8 Wisconsin a fantastic
To the "Quasi-quad"-Have capacite de parler Ia language francaise? 
FOR SALE series will be goinQ fast before you know time tonight. You all deserve It!! Just Contactez le Corps de Ia Paix a throughLOST: Clear key chain with Susan printnd For Sale-it. Get yours now1! remember to save all the details so I can the Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sIn gold. Please call 4-1-4269. Hiking Boots Mens size 7 Excellent hear all about it. (Subliminal Message--I Placement offices. Representatives will 
condition $35. Carrie 284-5121. Greg Higgins, am glad Iam not going, but thanks for not conduct interviews at Notre Dame on
Everyone deserves a personal for his
FOUND: One sum of money found tt,is bothering me about it. You are a, Nov. 20 and 21, and on Nov. 20 at Saint 
past weekend and another sum of mon 3y For Sale: 2 GA USC tickets, call (219) B-Day, even if it's in one day late! fantastic.) Mary's. Make appointments through
found on Monday (11-13). Call 7253 to 284-5183. Happy Belated! Love Diant. your placement office. Pickup informa­
identity. tion at the tab!e in the library concourse. Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., FLASH "Midnight Express"
FOUND: Pair of glasses-dark bro•vn Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general Hit men available for aprice. Better than Where is my personal? I have been URBAN PLANNERS are wanted forframes. Call Observer office to ldenti y. shop 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-"Pie in face." Call Nick Danger, Inc. waiting with baited breath!! Also-hope VISTA(Volunteers In Service To America)2888. 1723. Ask for: Nick Danger Private Eye you have tun tonight with the freshman 
projects all over the U.S. Design new

WANTED with 'stars in her eyes'. We're going to towns, renovate old, work in re-hab Wanted-ride to Cleveland Nov. 22 after For Sale-KATE MCDEVITT is the sweetest wash­miss you. housing.-Low-income communities needThanx for the
noon. Call 3116. 73 Gran Torino good shape snow tires. i~gtonian I've ever met. -Diane your skills. Contact VISTA through the
nde.
233-5282. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Placement 
"LOUISVILLE" The New York Hitch Hiker Congrats to Sandi Stohrer The ineffable Offices. Representatives will conduct Who needs a ride to Louisville on For Sale-Beauty from Walsh Hall. She's this interviews at Notre Dame on Nov. 20 andWednesday? I'm leaving around noor or 2 Season student basketball tickets-1 Little Prince, weeks Ms. Gorgosity. 21, and orf'Nov 20. at Saint Mary's. Make ;o-call Bob at 1780. bleacher 1 padded 1475. " ...Unique in all the world" appointments through your placement
Avec Amor, The Rose? 

KATHY* LISA* JEANINE office. Pickup Information at the table in TYFCASMYTIWABGTYYTMT For Sale: 2 GA tickets each to Georgia THANKS FOR THE REALLY NICE the library concourse. 
Wanna know what that means? Call and Tech and usc Call John at m1. Mom, Dad, Arun, JEAN, Sandy, Kim, BIRTHDAY PRESENTS. I JUST LOVE 
sell me a USC ticket TONIGHT and I Nill Jan, Anne, Mark, Paula, Jim, Mike, THEM. THANKS ALOT YOU GUYS!!! SCIENCE MAJORS. Biology, Chemis­
tell you! Marilyn 3848. John, Holycross, Chris, Pedro and com­
For Sale: Two GA tickets to every N D LOVETRISH try, Physics, Math. Peace Corps has home basketball game. Best offer-1159. challenging jobs for you in Asia, South
pany, Rita, Paul, Kathy, Ken, Shiela, Needed: Ride to/from Kansas City for Joni, and everyone else, Thanks for the 
America and Africa. Must be U.S. Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. ;au WONDERFUL surprise Birthday Party! citizen, married/single, no dependents.
NOTICES

Chris 8583. Sorry I didn't make most of it. Hope you No upper age limit. Contact Peace Corps
Typist will do typing, Neat and accurate.
had a good time anyway. 
throu9h the Notre Dame and Saint

Call 287-5162.
Need ride to Chicago on Tues. Nov. 21-Love lndi Mary s Placement Offices. Representa­call Mike 8856. PERSONALS tives will conduct interviews at Notre
Qualified swimming instructor can give
This is a story about Huffman. Whose WILL SUPPLY DRUGS IN RETURN FOR Dame on Nov. 20 and 21, and on Nov. 20 ,
private lessons on campus to children,
Wanted: Ride to Long Island/Metro NY Brain has been diminished to nothln. RIDE TO IOWA FOR THANKSGIVING. at Saint Mary's. Make ~pointment• •
faculty, students. Call Mary Jane
area for thanksgiving. Share driving. $. She's meek and she's mild, But when she CALL 1806. through your placement Office. Plc~up 1
4-1-5279.

Call brian 8671. parties She goes crazy and wild. She will information at the table In the library 1do what she can, to get her Macho Man. Notre Dame's Nittany Lady, So You're 
Gay Students of Notre Dame/Saint concourse. INeed ride back for two from Louis\ llle, Anonymous (Guess Who?) glad the battle of the big reds came up Mary's Gay information Write: P.O. Box
KY. area, Can leave anytime Sunday. cornballs. Careful now, the stalk's 
206. Candy, small prizes and trinkets are ICall Dave 1146. Goober and the raisinettes, Our saying pointin' straight at you. 'Cause ain't no 
needed as prizes to give away at the I

goes: husker nowheres, who done stomped on a 
Need Quality Typing? carnival rec when the retarded children 1Need ride close to Bronx for Thanks­Fine! Be that way! We don't like your sooner, gonna let hisself get killed by a Executary Inc. win at one of the many carnival games. If Iglving. Call Irene 6733. attitudes! Now go on, get out of here! cat. Be seeln' ya 'neath a bushel of Professional Typing Service you have any Items that could be donated ID.J. and the Saucy Sippers oranges. 
12 type styles for prizes to Logan, Please call Mike at
Need: Ride to Buffalo NY. ares tor One Happy Husker 
$1/page minimum 1371 or Sue at 41-4832. I
Turkey day break. Call Sue 4-5411. The adventures of 
Call232~98
Chuckle In DC Fellow Observer Readers, -----------------· 
"When you want the Best"
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/full tlrne. Won't be as fun without he sultmates 3 Alas! Alack! Superiors have informed me Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. (and that Includes Peggy, Bets and MB!) that I have abused this personal column 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND
All fields, $50V-1200 monthly, exp11nses Thanks for a great b-day you munklers! once too often, and therefore must be Irish skaters
Student loans $20-$150, 1 percent Inter­
paid, sightseeing. Free info.-Wrlte: Love, the Spaz restrained. I must agree with the fact est due in 30 days LaFortune Basement
International Job Center, Box 44'l0-14 that my verbosity Is overindulged, but to 
11 :30-12:30 M-F
Berkeley, CA 94704. Belated 22nd birthday wishes to Mo limit any creative persult (such as this) at home vs. MSU Rothfuss-214 LeMans! Sorry this Is late, borders on the fringe~ of communistic 
Attention all Logan Volunteers and
Partlme people needed to sell adver.islng but that's typical of me-as you know. censorship. Therefore, in the Interest of [continued from pqe 16)
interested students. The 2nd annual
out of reg lonal offices of natlouwide Hope this Is asuper year for you, roomie. personal liberty, I plead with the reading Carnival Rec Is to be held this saturday,
publishing firm. Entry level position. I'll miss you! P.ublic to rally to my aid. Please write Paraskevin at the wings.
Nov 18th, from 9:00 to 11:30 a.m. Lots of
Call Mr. Ford 272-3171. -Jeanne 'Save Scoop Personals" care of Box Q; Paraskevin, who is tied with Arron 
help Is needed setting up the booths andNotre Dame, IN. For more Info call AI 
games for the carnival. Set-up parties for Rucks for the team scoring lead at 
Need 4 GA Southern Cal. tickets. Call Attention Mike Meenan-Here Is your Paclno for Intimate details at 3748. And 
carnival rec will be held thursday and ten points, scored the winning goal 
John at 1991. personal for the week ending 11/16fi8. God Bless You All .... 
friday night at 6:30p.m. at Logan Center. in the Michigan Tech victory last
You now owe the Moran Trust Company Scoop 
Come and bring a friend. In addition,
OKAY-I know It's not even thanks!llving an exhorbitant amount of money, pay up Saturday.
clowns and jugglers are desperately
yet, but I DESPERATELY need a r de to if you know what is good for you. Also Mary&Jay, Leading the defense is senior
needed tor the carnival saturday at
at least Omaha !Preferably LINCOLN) rumor has It that you are in char9e of the Congratulation and best of luck always. 
Logan. If you have a clown costume captain Jeff Barr, the only three­
Nebraska tor Chnstmas vacation. The semi-annual awards pr~sentat1on this D.Z. 
and/or can juggle, please call Mike at time letter winner on the' squad.
catch is that my last exam Is the 21st... If Saturday at Ken's (see next personal). 
1371 or Sue at 41-4832. 
anyone Is "Going my way" around this Please take note that libelous or other­A. H. (yes, you!) Ted Huesing is the leading scorer time please call (SMC) 5427 (MartPat) wise tacky presentations will be looked As usual you're No. 1 on my mind-even for the defense, with two goals and 
SPECIAL ED majors needed for special
I'll pay and drive if need be. upon with extreme disfavor by this office. these 3 days. Somehow, I know thln9s five assists.
jobs In Asia, South America and Africa.
Also hang a good one on in L.A., drink will work out, no matter what I say. I II 
Help others build better futures while you The Irish enter the weekend series 
Insecure freshman misses comfort of old one far me. · keep trying. 
get valuable experience. Must be U.S. coming off an impressive split
friends. Drastically need ride near Signed, The Editor Love ya, Lynne 
citizen, single/married, no dependents. against top-ranked Minnesota last
Worcester, Mass. for Tnanksgivin~. Call 
No upper age limit. Contact Peace Corps
Lisa 1282. Crew people and friends, party at Ken's Does God love The Observer? Timothy weekend. "In the Minnesota
throu9h the Notre Dame "and Saint
this saturday. Call sundance for direc­Leary thinks so. series we established ourselves as
Mary s placement offices. Representa­
Need ride to Cincinnati tor Thank! giving tions. The Acid Apostle 
tives will conduct interviews at Notre being able to skate with anyone,"
Nov. 21 Call Bob 1797. P.S. Our typists are divine. 
Dame on Nov. 20 and 21 , and on Nov 20 Smith noted, "and we also could
Attention Laura-There will be amorator­at Saint appointments more what are
Desperate tor 1 USC ticket in t 1e N D ium on nose jokes only if you desist in Paddlefish, Happy Hour-Friday at Nic­Mary's. Make see clearly we 
through your placement office. Pick up
section. Homesick sister in Sa 1 Jose finding humor in last weekends doings. kie's-3-6. $1.50 pitchers. strong in and what we need work
information at the table in the library
wants to see me over Thanksgivin!l. Call MB on. We had 13 power play
concourse.

1942 please. Don't forget the AD building munch. 
opportunities and converted on

Two strong, handsome, broken-hearted -Melvin 
LAW grads needed to serve as VISTA only one so we see that as an area
Need 4th roommate-female. Campus males need a ride to visit Mom and Dad 
(Volunteers in Service To America). for improvement.''
View Apts. Call 233-6207. in Iowa for Thanksgiving. Girls, call If I don't get USC tix I'll sleep in the lnter,ested in farmworker law? Commun­
1806. "On the other hand," Smith
streets on Break-Mick 1763. ity development? Imigration law? Many
Help! Friends need U.S.C. Tix Call continued, "we killed 12 penalties,
Edd. F'tz P t . k d M t H Adorable ki'tten needs home. Found near other areas. Contact VISTA through the
Mike at 3178. 1e 1 a nc an uppe s, eres Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Placement many times down two skaters, and your personal are you happy now? Hope campus View Apts. I can't keep it. Do Offices. Representatives will conduct 
that was very encouraging. Our

Bassist needed for serious Jau-Rock you get well soon from you operation you want it? Call 272-7445 interviews at Notre Dame on Nov. 20 and 
passing ability was also shown in 

group. Call Greg 1606. sunday. 21,andonNov.20atSaintMary's. Make 
this series so that is an ·encouraging 

Love Mary & Suz Free Puppy· Call 272-8057 after 6. appointments through your placement HELP WANTED office. Pickup information at the table In sign as well. 
First Bank has Immediate openings for Tommy Fitzpatrick, We know why you Phyliss Washington is the finest cheer-the library concourse. 
"Lastly, the attitude and desire

partime and full time proof operators. won't drink that KTC! Friday is Disco leader in America. She's got it all, except 
of our team will play a very

Afternoon and evening hours av;tilable. night (Ha, Ha) me SOCIAL WORKERS/SOCIOLOGISTS 
important role this year and that

No experience necessary. Will train. Love Mary & Suz -Grover Goodtime Volunteers In Service To America offers Call First Bank & Trust Com~ any for you grass-roots experience in counseling, came through in Minnesota as 
appointment 236-2605. An Equa Oppor-Eddie & Tommy, Seriously now. Thanks Dear Mr. Steve Odland, guidance, social work, etc. Your degree well,'' Smith added. I look for 
tunity Employer. for the fantastic time in New York! You The night staff wishes to express their could qualify you for programs in health more improvement each week and did us solid. Thanks again. sincere sorrow that we never (almost) see ed, preventiVe medicme, adult literacy, 
as the season goes on, we'll

Need usc tickets. Call4-1-4362.-Vickie. Love Mary & Suz our beloved managing editor any more. pre-school. Positions available all over 
become much better as a team."

-The mght staff U.S. Travel, living expenses & medical 
Need ride to and from Central New York Carrie Ewing has a secret passion for an benefits. contact VISTA through the One big plus for the Irish this for Thanksgiving. Can leave any ime and excrutiatlngly suauve New Yorker-and Scoop, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Placement season has been the play of rookie will share driving and expenses. Call his name isn't Nelson Rockefeller-St. Everypne loves your personals! Offices. Representatives will conduct goalie Dave Laurion. The Irish 
Mark 1741. Coochie Coo. interviews at Notre Dame on Nov. 20 and 'keeper is now leading the WCHA,Particularly NOBODY in Particular! 21, and on Nov 20 at Saint Mary's. Make 
with a 3.495 goals against average, 

Dishwasher wanted. Weds, Fri. Sun. Ride needed west on 1-80 to Iowa City or appointments through your Placement nights. Apply In person at NICOLA's. Quad Cities area for weekend of Nov. 17. Toledo Club Meeting: 6:30 Monday, Office. Pick up information at the table in holding a slim lead over Scott I 809 N. Michigan. Please call 4-1-5165 or 4-1-4007. · Nov. 20, second floor Lafortune. the library concourse. Robinson of Denver, wl>o stands at 
21 --------;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;;;;::;;;=:;;::;:..-...;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;;:;;-=:;;;;;::;;;;;::;;;;;:;;_;;:;;= _______________. 
3.50. 
.­

16 the ObServer Friday, November 17, 1978 
Yellowjackets to provide stern opposition for Irish 
by Lou Severino Sports Writer 

With a possible Bowl bid hinging on the outcome, Dan Devine's Notre Dame squad travels to Atlanta for a Saturday afternoon matchup with the streaking Georgia Tech Yellowjackets. The Irish are in a must win situation, while Georgia Tech also needs a win to improve its bowl prospects. Tech has reeled off seven straight wins after two early losses to Duke and California, and enters this game in peak form. Coach Pepper Rodgers' club has also not forgot­ten last year's 69-14 embarassment in Notre Dame Stadium. 
This year's Georgia Tech team has a new outlook, especially on offense, where Rodgers has instal­led the I-formation in. place of last year's run-oriented veer. The star of this unit is senior tailback Eddie Lee Ivery, who broke the NCAA single-game rushing mark with 356 yards, including TD runs of 80, 67 and 53 yards last week in Tech's 42-21 rout of Air Force. For the season Ivery has amassed 1300 yards (third in the nation) on 216 carries for a 6.0 average. 
The other big play man in the Tech offense is speedy split end Drew Hill, who has 28 receptions for an average of 18.9 per catch, including a 90-yard TD catch. 
The rest of the offensive unit is · dominated by seven seniors. The front line is paced by fourth year men Mike Taylor (6-7 260) and Roy 

Irish To Win Eighth 
::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~:;:;:;.::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::The Irish Eye 
fhis is the last week for teams to strut their stuff for the bowl 
committees. Right now the bowl picture is in a state of utter confusion. 
The teams to watch that can further scramble the picture arc Notre Dame, 
Nebraska and Georgia. Bids arc scheduled to come out Saturday night. 
The Rose Bowl will be one of the few bowl decisions decided on the field 
this weekend as USC faces UCLA and Purdue gets to prove they are for 
real when they meet Michigan. With the help of Mike Henry. here is what 
the Irish Eye expects to see on the scoreboard. 
Missouri at Nebraska: The Tigers opened their season with a bang and 
could go out the same way. Warren Powers has to be happy with the 
progress made but a win over Nebraska would sure help his recruiting 
program. Nebraska may be tlat after a big game but certainly can't afford 
to lose now (who can?), so I'll go with the Cornhuskers by 8. Henry tabs 
Nebraska by a pair of touchdowns. 
Dartmouth at Princeton: Believe it or not this game is for a league title, 
but no one will be going to a bowl game from the Ivy League. Dartmouth 
has been the surprise to date and a win at Tiger Stadium could clinch it, 
but so far the home team has dominated play in the brainy division. The 
Big Green will break the trend and win on the roacf by I 0. Henry picks 
Princeton by 14. 

Yale at Hanard: Another biggie in Ivy League play. Yale, the 
pre-season favorite. is all but counted out. but that does nbt make the 
game any less intense. Harvard has been a little disappointing. but is 
always an upset threat, espeCially at Cambridge. Nevertheless, Yale has 
lost too many games already and has squandered talent so far. They hang 
tough in this rivalry and win by 4. Henry goes with Yale by 1. 
Clemson at Maryland: As usual this game is for the ACC title. Clemson 
has quietly recorded eight wins and a loss while Maryland has recorded 
the same record but gotten a little more press in the process. The Tigers 
arc ranked fourth in the na·tion in total offense and eighth on defense. 
right ahead of Maryland. Statistically, Maryland is inferior, but with the 
game at College Park, the six-point victory is theirs. Henry sees Clemson 
winning by 9. , 
Texas A&M at Arkansas: This game pits the Aggie rushing game (312 
yds. per game) a~ainst the Razorbacks rushing defense (122 yds. per 
game). Even if it's A&M's offense. the Razorbacks haven't had the 
offense to win the big ones. It will go down to the end but the Aggies will 
take it by a field goal. Henry predicts Arkansas by 21. 
Navy at Florida St.: Florida St. thought they were going to go undefeated 
and Navy nearly made it. It was nice seeing the Middies in the top twenty, 
but they are destined for their third loss in a row. They need a game at 
home, but it won't come this week and neither will a win. The Seminoles 
offense is better than Navy's defense and that will give them a I0-point 
win. 

Purdue at Michigan: It's showdown time in the race for the roses. Purdue's strong point is still their passing attack, while Michigan's weakness is their defensive secondary. If Herrmann gets hot the Wolverines might put on a Rose Bowl performance a few weeks early. If the Boilermakers sag on offense they will be pushed right out of that huge stadium. Remember what the Wolverines did to a cocky, undefeated Wisconsin squad last year: I expect a repeat performance as they win by two TO's. Henry predicts a 25-point rout by Schembechler's boys. 
Texas at TCU: TCU returns as the sure bet target. You know they are going to lose because they won't score any points. Texas' defense is tough. but Fred Akers wali . only kidding himself claiming last year was a rebuilding year. Nevertheless, his team will post a 9-2 season putting Texas back on the perennial power list. The Longhorns will win by 
42. Henry agrees. 

Georgia at Auburn: This is the most important game going on this weekend. If Auburn looses, then Alabama goes to the Sugar Bowl and the scramble begins. The Tigers are no slouch while Georgia is not as good as its ranking. In the SEC the home field advantage can be worth a TD before the opening kickoff. The game may be close for while. but the 
. dogs won't pass up this opportune chance of making it to the Sugar oowl as they win by 6. Henry picks Georgia by 3. 
Southern Cal at UCLA: It's time for the Trojans to represent the Pac-10 again. However, beating UCLA is never easy as Theotis Brown is one of the most underrated backs in the country. The Trojans are ranked fourth in the nation in rushing defense. so that's the match-up to watch. When the Bruins rushing is stopped. USC takes over the ball and is not likely to be stopped. The Trojans get 'the nod in this contest by 12. Henry likes usc by 14. 
Notre Dame at Geor:gla Tech:'I'alk about a grudge match. There will be more than a football !lying through the air this Saturday. Tech wants revenge for last year's embarassment and has the momentum to pull off the upset. The Irish must win to stay in the bowl picture, and a big margin of victory sure would help all the more. Notre Dame must avoid early mistakes and jump out early. Montana's ability to consistently move the offense. coupled with the rushing defense against Eddie Lee Ivery, arc the keys to this outcome: I MAY BE WRONG BUT I'LL TAKE THE IRISH BY 9. 

Simmons (6-3 264) .. 

Probably the biggest change for the Ramblin' Wreck is at quarter­back, where freshman Mike Kelley has stepped in and provided a passing threat--something which Tech sorely lacked last season. Kelley has completed 68 of 134 · attempts for 1083 yards and five touchdowns. In addition to Hill, his other targets include flanker Bucky Shamburger and tight end Donnie Sewell. Ivery has also been dangerous as a receiver with 15 catches for 204 yards and a long gainer of 60 yards. 
Overall Geo,rgia Tech boasts 1 a balanced offense with an average of 212 yards rushing to go along with 152 yards passing per game. 
The Tech offense will be operat­ing against an Irish defense which has allowed only .12 points per game this season. More important­ly for Joe Yonto's defensive unit has been its tendency to come up with the big play in recent weeks. Last week against Tennessee, Mike Calhoun's quarterback sack and ensuing John Hankerd fumble recovery led to one touchdown, while Joe Restic accounted for 
[continued on page 14] 

leers to host Michigan State 
season with a pair of non­conference wins over Ohio State,
by Mark Perry 
Assistant Sports Editor 

proceeded to drop their first five Although the Michigan State games in the WCHA before hockey team comes to Notre Dame beating Michigan Tech S-4 last 
~ this weekend in last place in the Saturday. WCHA, Irish hockey coach Lefty Amo Bessone, in his 28th year as 'Smith isn't taking the Spartans too head coach of MSU, is optimistic lightly. about the team despite its poor "A team"s record does not mean early showing. "Let's hope this much in the WCHA," Smith has been a learning period," commented, "so Michigan State is Bessone said. ''We have played still going to be a formidable pretty good hockey and no one has opponent. We will certainly have blown us out. Maybe we can hold our hands full." our own from here on in." The two teams will be playing Smith agrees that the Spartans Friday and Saturday night at the are improving. "In the Minnesota ACC, with both games starting series and in the split at Michigan at 7:30. This is the first of two Tech the Spartans showed they will straight home series for the Irish, be a team to be reckoned with once who will face Michigan at home their freshmen mature. They have next weekend. excellent goaltending and are a The Spartans, who opened their hard-nosed, good skating club." 
Junior Mark Mazzolini has started in the nets for the Spartans in four of their WCHA games, and has played well even though Michigan State has lost all of those games. Rookie Doug Belland started the other two games, and was out­standing in holding off a charge by Michigan Tech in the third period to preserve State's first win. Both should see action in this weekend's games. 
State's top forward line features Russ Welch, the team's leading scorer the past two years, at right wing, with freshman walk-on Craig Lakian and sophomore Paul Gottwald at center. 
The second line, which accounted for ten points in the Michigan Tech 
series,  features  Frank  Finn  at  
center,  Gary  Harpell  and  Ken  
[contlbued on page 15]  

Craig Chval::=:=::;:;:;::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::·:::::::=:::=:::=:=::;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=::;:;:;::=::::;:;:::::::::::::::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::: 
A Yuletide Fiesta 

The sound seemed to come from the clouds--and Dan Devine had only his faith now. The voice rumbled, "I have a message for your people. You will take it back to them, and they shall obey. Thou shalt not play a football game on Christmas Day." 
So. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh has spoken on high. and we now have The Eleven Commandments. 
But our beloved president may be overlooking a tremendous opportunity to expose millions of hea­thens to the Catholic faith. 
Instead of the Firemen's Flashback between halves of the Fiesta Bowl, on Christmas Day, CBS could show a reenactment of the nativity scene. After all. television worked for Billy Graham. 
And the old joke explaining that Jesus Christ wasn't born in Southern California because they couldn't find three wise men and a virgin certainly wouldn't hold true at Notre Dame. · 
"Hello again everyone, this is Howard Cosell. And with me I have Edward 'Moose' Krause, one of the tl,lree wise men. Tell me, Moose. how did you and the 
other  two  Magi  ever  make  your  way  here  to  
BethIemen?"  
"Well,  Howard,  my  fellow  wise  men--Col.  Jack  

Stephens and Joseph O'Brien--and I spotted the Goodyear blimp in the sky, and we just kept walking until we got here." 
Of course the Magi would present the newborn child with suitable gifts. Moose could offer a ten-gallon hat, and the Colonel and O'Brien could bring "God Made Notre Dame No. I" bumper stickers. 
Casting the roles of the holy family could present its problems. But since Dan Devine has done such a commendable job as the second coming of Ara. he might as well try his hand at following another legend. 
Maybe we could even find a bit part for Bcvo. the Texas Longhorn. 
In all seriousness. it appears that Fathc;rs Heshurgh and Joyce are attempting to pull off a grand~tan<! play with little, if any, regard for the student body. 
But apart from the student body as a whole. 
Hesburgh and Joyce are slighting the football players 
and especially the seniors. who have had their sights 
sets on a bowl game since mid-August. 

They arc slighting the players who have shown 
tremendous character in coming back after losing 
their first two games of the season. 

They arc slighting a coaching staff that has been subject to constant second-guessing for most of the past two seasons. despite the accomplishments of the '77 and '78 squads. 
Their intentions may be honorable, but Hesburgh and Joyce arc not ~oing to prevent football from being played on Chrtstmas Day.. 
What they will accomplish. though, is to keep Notre Dame'!> seniors from a bowl trip that would be a fitting end to four successful seasons. 
There arc several valid arguments in support of the administration's decision. The idea of not wanting to play on Christmas Day is admirable. but pales when it is pointed out that last year's team practiced on Christmas Day. 
A. near-conflict with .the final exam schedule, which ends on December .21, is another worry. but that decision should be left up to Devine and his players . But in what seems ~to be a growing trend around Notre Dame, the admini~tration has once again taken upon itself to make up the students' minds for them. 
So now it appears th~t all the Irish can do is hope that either Georgia or Nebraska lose on Saturday. Although Georgia is favored over Auburn and Nebraska should handle Missouri. basketball coadt Digger Phelps does ha~e a suggestion to help the Irish cause. I 
Why not tly our studbnt body to Auburn so that we may provide a little in~piration for the Tigers against Georgia'! 
I

Come to think of it, t's not such a bad idea. And 
practical. too. After al . any school affluent enough to pass up bowl receipts ,from the Fiesta Bowl certainly could afford to charter 11 few plane loads of students to Alabama. 







