Trial still pending on discrimination suits 
by Michael Lewis that his wife sue the University. 
News Editor Ross denied that she offered Frese· 
legal advice but acknowledged the 
The status of two sex discrimin­conversation. 
ation suits filed against Notre The Frese and Ford cases were 
Dame will undergo little change consolidated this summer by Fed­
during the semester break, eral Judge Allen Shatp because of 
although the University's lawyers the similar charges and because 
have withdrawn from one of the both were originally filed as "class 
cases. action" cases. However, the 
Josephine Ford, associate pro­University's attorney tnotioned to 
fessor of theology, has filed a sex separate the cases when Ross and 
discrimination suit against Notre Faccenda withdrew from the Frese 
Dame, charging that she was case but remained as the Univers­
denied full professQrship because ity's counsels in the Ford case. 
of her sex. Dolores Frese, assistant 
Sharp granted this motion 
professor of English, claims she 
which was appealed to the Seventh 
was denied tenure and a promotion 
Circuit Court of Appeals in 
on the same grounds. 
Chicago. The Circtit Court uphel$1
Following a charge of impropri, 
Sharp's decision, and the cases are
etv by Frese's attorney, Sharon.. · 
now separated.
Wildey,Philip Faccenda, University 
A pre-trial hearing in the Ford
general counsel, and Kathleen 
case, which was originally filed in
Ross of a Chicago firm withdrew 
February, is set for Dec. 15, while a
from the case. Faccenda said that 
pre-trial conference in the Frese
there is, "no evidence of impropri­
case will take place Feb. 9.
ety on our part," but noted that the 
Faccenda commented that neither
action was an ethical question and 
case will come to a trial until late in 
that "we withdrew from the case to 
1979 or, possibly, 1980.
clear the air." 
Faccenda and Ross have been Faccen-da added that the lawsuit 
replaced by South Bend attorney filed by Danahey also may not be 
Thomas Murray who is also repre­settled until 1980. Danahey has 
senting the University in an age charged that the University is 
discrimination case filed by Prof. guilty of age discrimination by 
Emeritus James Danahey. forcing him to retire at 65. 
The impropriety charge stems Danahey maintains that the Uni­
from a conversation between Ross versity does not have a mandatory 
and James Frese, the plaintiffs retirement policy. 
husband, in the spring of 1977. Danahey's counsel requested 

Frese, according to court affidavits, and was granted a change of venue 
discussed the possibility of a sex for the case from St. Joseph to 
discrimination suit against the Knox_ County, where the case is 
University, and Ross suggested still waiting for a court date. 

Lottery remains uncertain 
by Sue Wuetcher year. The problem stems from not 
SenioP Staff Reporter -enough upperclassmen--not just 
seniors--moving off campus," he 
Director of University Housing said. 
Edmund Price said yesterday that Price stated that he has plans to 
it's still too early to tell for certain if move up the date that the housing 
juniors will be lotteried off campus contracts are due. ''Tentaticvely, 
next year. we have some dates~ I would like to 
"We can't tell yet at this stage of have the contracts in by spring 
the game," Price said, adding, vacation. Bv this time we'll be ahlP 
"The only time we'll know is when to tell if people will be lotteried 
we get the housing contracts in and off," he stressed. 
count them. Then we'll know if we [continued on page 3] 

·-~­

-------------. 


The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No. 61 · . · Wednesday, December 6, 1978 
HPC discusses proposal on new room construction 
by Dan Letcher that overcrowding would be prefer. Chairman. Chuck DelGrande Staff Reporter able.'' Dillon president Marcy 
summed up 'the HPC feeling: Paulson noted, "The HPC accom­-''The HPC feels that additional 

Student Body President Andy plished nothing by giving in. We overcrowding is not a viable alter­McKenna appeared before-the Hall represent our constituents and native to the present problems.
Presidents Council last night in follow their feelings. They don't We are in disfavor of a lottery We Farley Hall and discussed a pos­want a Iotter and they don't want would like to force the administra­
sible proposal to the Administra­overcrowding." 
tion to come up viable short term tion concerning the overcrowding answers such as shuttle service for 

situation. I improve­
off-campus students, an The proposal advocates the con­cpltopoooQ Jtequests ment of off-campus conditions, and 
struction of rOoms in areas such as finally an increase in construction the basement of Keenan Hall and of on-calilpus living quarters."
in Holy Cross Hall. If these areas houstllg pQatt DelGrande then talked about the 
does not sQive the overcrowding Toronto exchange program. He problem, th~n each hall would be announced that over
well 117Paulson also noted that the officeasked to consider the possibility of people signed up for the programof BuSiness Affairs has projectedabsorbing more students. 

and SO have paid the SSOdollar fee. 

an excess of 130 students for nextAlso included in the proposal 16 spots are being held for hallyear. This would be an increasewould be. a request that the presidents. The deadline forupon the already overcrowdedAdministration come up with a turning in the money is Friday and state, and would raise the numberhousing plan for _!he spring of 1980. 
will be on a first-come-first-serveof students without house to over 

Tom Paese, Flanner president, 300, Paulson said. basis. stated, "We can't go on giving any Next week's meeting is at 6:30 in 
The HPC decided not to back the 
more. It's. not our positon o say proposal. Fi'iher Hall. 


WALDEN, Colo. [AP] • Search­ers on snowmobiles rescued 21 persons yesterday, including an infant in his mother's arms, who survived the ,crash-landing of a twin-engine commuter plane on a mountainside ;and spent the night in a near-blizzard. Authorities said one person di~d in the accident. 
The survivors were taken out from the crash site 10,000 feet up in the Colorado· Rockies on Sno-Cats through a foot of fresh snow, some riding inside and others wrapped in down sleeping bags and strapped to the outside of the tractor-like, tracked behicles. 
Only four survivors were able to walk unaided when they reached a rescue center set up in a remote log cabin. The others were carried in baskets and on plywood boards. 
Rocky Mountain Airways Flight 217 had left the ski-resort town of Steamboat Springs at 6:55 p.m. Monday on a scheduled 45-minute flight over the Continental Divide to Denver. Fifteen minutes later, 
Plane crashes in Rockies 
the pilot radioed that he was having trouble with ice and was heading· back to Steamboat Springs. 
Vern Bell, 19, of Lakewood, one of the passengers, said the plane had been the air about an hour and there was no warning before the crash. 
"All of a sudden we hit a little turbulence and ran right into the ground," said Bell. "I heard and saw a flash of light before we hit. After we hit, I guess I was knocked out for just a little while. I was in a daze, didn't know who I was. I thouj:!;ht it was a nightmare." 
There was screaming and moan­ing, he said. A few lights were on in the plane, but they soon went out. Those who were able to help wrapped the more seriously injured in blankets and coats. 
The windshield of the plane had been smashed in, Bell said. The pilot, Alan Klopfenstein, and the co-pilot were both delirious, he said. 
"We staved awake most of the night," said Bell. "I couldn't sleep because of teh pain." 
Bell, one of the first survivors to reach a hospital, was reported in fair condition with a possible broken nose and other injuries. 
It was about 6 a.m. yesterday when the first rescue crew,. fol­lowing the signal from an emer­gency locator transmitter on snowmobiles, reached the· crash site southwest of Walden. 
"It looked like scrambled eggs." siad Leo Mack of Steamboat Springs, one of the first at the crash site. He said the plane's wings were sheared off and that it had come to rest beneath a power line, its fuselage cracked in two and resting on a foot of fresh snow in the midst of a thick pine forest: 
The high-voltage· transmission line had been knocked out and rescue parties had worked their way along the line until they found the plane. 

Wednesday, December 6, 1978
the observer ___ . 
,....News Briefs_______,_, 
. I============================== National 

City to lay off civil workers 
CLEVELAND [AP]-Police and firemen reacted angril_y yesterday to the city's proposal to lay off 400 safety employees 1~ an effort to keep Cleveland from becoming the first maJ?r_D.S. ~tty t? d~fault since the Depression. Mayor Dennis J. Kucmtch clatms tt wtll be necessary to lay off 250 of the city's L900 police officers and 150 of its 1 ,000 firefighters Feb. 1or sell $5.2 million of its land to stave off ddault by Dec. 15 and balance the 1979 budget. 
Students flush in protest 
BALTIMORE [AP]-Students at the College of Notre Dame who dealt the school a royal flush have wound up in hot water over their protest designed to postpone mid-term exams and get a longer Chris! mas vacation. By yesterday afternoon, about 20 students 
•admitted taking part in a synchronized flush of all68 toilets in Doyle Hall. a dormitory housing 100 women. But apparently all the Sunday night action dubbed "Operation Royal Flush," did was knock out the dorm's water supply until plumbing was repaired Monday afternoon. Sister Kathleen Feeley, the college preside.nt, said the protest failed to change the college's exam and vacatton 
~edules. 


Weather 

Partly cloudy today with highs in the mid to upper 30s. Becoming mostly cloudy again tonight with a slight chanc~ of ~now. Lows aroung 30. Cloudy with snow likely tomorrow. Htghs m the low to mid 30s. The extended outlook for Friday through Sunday calls f~r a chance of snow, with lows in the upper 20s to upper 30s and ht&h JOs to low 40s. Saturday there will be a chance of snow and lows m the teens to low 20s. 
,_On Campus Today_~ 
12:15 p.m. 5:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 
8 p.m. 
10:30 
p.m. 

10:30 
p.m. 



mass, with rev robert griffin, univ chaplain, 
Iafortune student center. 
faster's mass, spon by world hunger coalition, walsh chapel. 
meeting, aisec, 2nd floor Iafortune. 
sailing club meeting, 204 o'shag. 
meeting, philip gleason will present "ethnicity and american identity," and formal discussion, spon by" notre dame historical society, library lounge. 
st. nicholas party, for nd/smc foreign language majors, club membrs and faculty, spon by dept modern and class lang,' wilson commons socaal center, bulla road. 
reconciliation service, zahm hall chapel. 
penance service, fr burtchell, bp chapel. 

Q. Where can I get discount theatre tickets? 
A. At the Student Union Ticket Office, open 12-4 Monday through Friday, 2nd floor LaFortune. These student tickets are. $1.75 each, a11d good for 6 months. They're usable at any area Phtt Theatre: Town & Country, Riverpark, and the Scottsdale Mall. 
Q. How many finals am I required to take in one day? 
A. 2 exams in any 24-hour period is the maximum. If you have more than that, talk to the professors about re-scheduling. You don't have to stand for an overload, but it is the student's obligation to make any arrangements. 
Q. How can I list for rides/riders? 
A. Call Ombudsman with your name, address, and phone. You'll be filed according to your destination, which goes by its telephone area code. Specifiy whether you need a ride/rider just for this holiday, or whether you'd like to be notified any time something's available. Then check back if you're hard to reach or you'd like your name removed. 
Q. What if I have an absolutely brilliant scheme for improving life under the Dome? 
A. Get any and all ideas to the Ombudsman, 2nd floor LaFortune--drop them off or send them via campus mail. If you can't write, call. If it's at all feasible, we'll try to implement it. The little park in front of NieuwL:nd was "just a suggestion." 

FBI Director to fire agents 
WASHINGTON [AP] • . FBI Director William H. Webster said yesterday he will fire two FBI agents for their part in conducting allegedly illegal surveillance against the radical Weather Underground in the early 1970s, but will take no action against 59 other agents. 
In addition to firing two agents, the director announced he will demote one agent and suspend one for 30 days. All four had supervis­ory responsibility, Webster said. 
He also said he will repimand two street agents who conducted unauthorized surveillance against the Weather Underground. 
Webster said he decided against any discipline for 59 other agents, including one supervisor, on grounds they were acting under orders from superiors and without clear legal guidance from FBI 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Margie Brassil Asst. Night Editor: Patsy Campbell Sports layout: Journal & Stealer Typists: Kim Convey, Bill Swift, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Day Editor: Marcia Kovas Copy Readers: Mare U I icny, Phil Cackley Ad Layout: Flo O'Connell, Sue Johnston, Bob Rudy Photographer: Ken McAlpine 
The Observer is publlshecl Mon­day through Friday except during exaln and ncation periods. Tt)e Observer Is published try the students of Notre Dame and Si!lnt Mary's College. Subscrlptie>'ls may be purchased for no per year ($1 o per semester) from ThP. Observer, P.O. f!.c11 Q, Nllfn! Dame, Indiana 46556. SP.cnnd class postage paid, Ntlt"1' 011!!18, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is ll mombor of the Aasoclatecl f"ron. All repro­duction rights are rrtJarved. 

headquarters or the Justice De­partment. 
"It seems clear to me that to discipline the street agents at this late date for acts performed under supervision and without needed legal guidance from FBI head­quarters and the Department of 
Justice would whollv lack any therapeutic ·value either as a ·personal deterrent or _ as am example to others,'' Webster told a .news conference. "It would be 
counterproductive and unfair." 
Webster announced the results of an investigation of 68 agents and supervisors accused of involvement in breakins, wiretaps and mail openings that were intended to ferret out Weather Underground fugitives between 1970 and 1975. 
The remaining three FBI agents involved in the investigation have retired and are beyond disciplinary action. 
Three former ranking FBI offic­ials -former Acting FBI Director L. Patrick Gray III and two of his top 
WED.­THURS.­
ItJI'Il "''llillh I(· --~~c~l·l It:£· 13111 fl(lrl.lllt· 9:30-10:30 
-~ ( ..... ( l 

)tJU.) f'£•11'' 
J\)11 ft)lliiJ(! 9:30-??? 10:30-??? 
aides-are to stand trial next month 
on charges they conspired to 
violate the civil rights of friends 
and relatives of Weather Under­
ground members by authorizing 
the surveillance. 

Webster said he hoped his 
decision would resolbe the trauma 
that the Weather Underground 
case has caused the FBI. 
"The lessons have been 
learned," he said. "The bureau is committed to doint its duty under guidelines which fully protect today's perceptions of privacy and reasonableness.'' 
The four supervisors who were disciplined have lO days to appeal to Webster to reconsider his deci­sion. After that, if Webster stands by his action, they can take their cases to court and three of them who are veterans may appeal to the I Civil Service Commission. 
Webster withheld the names of all 68 on grounds it would violate their privacy rights to make any 
[Continued on page 7] 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Steve Odland 
John Calcutt 

Barb langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Doug Christian 
lilt? ~ () § ..( lllt?Clllt? ()ft?§t?.-1(§ 
lciWCllcl Ali:lt?t?~§ 
<111 f)~f?l 
Seating is wry linited. The audienm will be 
seated randomly within the environllBlfal 
setting of the play. Please note the Wednesday performanm 
Svrn Ill u~. clU~Iilhi AucJituriUIT1 'Wt?cJ.-Scat. Ut?t_.__().-CJ 
Wf SAVI[) 1~1 Uf._l f()l? l4SI AI 1~1 ~AZZ!!! 
FRI.­f f~l1f: IJ,ut~.-Uif'I(J Je~Fr1lt:o (·tlt,Jrlc t1 
1\rl:lll ..ciLtlt· ' 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor 
Photo Editor--­
9:00-10:30 11 30 ???
1 0:30-11 : 30 : -. . . 
SAT.­
ft,t· ~lll f ll•l--111 i'}-­'-1 '( ,. 9:00-??? 
• 


Many beautiful prints were on display yesterday at the print sale in laFortune.[photo by Ken McAlpine] 
... 

[continued from page 1] "If there is a lottery list it won't be available until after the housing contracts come in in March," Price stated. The procedure that the Housing Office hopes to use for the off-cam­pus lottery should be published have enough spaces." Price pointed out that the num­ber of incoming freshmen is already set. ''The Admissions Office has a quota, and they're only off by six or seven people every over the semester break. Price noted. "These are the steps to be taken for selecting those students who will remain on campus," he said, addi.1g, "We want to have some kind of system to use to select which people are to be housed on campus. We need a system for this year and other years to come," Price added. The incoming Freshman Class is not being notified of the housing shortage, according to John Goldrick, director of admissions. "I don't anticipate what will be 
Wednesday, December 6, 1978 
the observer 
3 

Lottery remains u~certain: Price 
Professors express ideas ,on research and teaching 
Editor's note: This Is the first article In a two-part series dealing with the realtlonshlp between research and teaching at Notre Dame. Today's article covers facult)' views on the subject. Tomorrow's article outlines Admin­Istration policy concerning the issue. 
by John McGrath 
Staff Reporter 

Research. . 
At first glance, the defini C!n of the word seems clear, but h re at Notre Dame, it can mean dift r;:nct things to different people. 
Amcng the faculty ther are those who recognize what they feel is a new push for research, as Hell as those who have their own id!as about the importance and climate for such work here. 
In an interview last week, Uni­versity Provost Timothy o·~ }ara addressed some of these con, e. ~1s by declaring that the emphasis on research at Notre Dame is "nothing new," but some of the faculty, nevertheless, remv in worried. 
"I think there has definitely been more pressure to do research ...this used to be typically a teachi g college," remarked Paul Conway, associate professor of finance and business economics. 
"It's a new ballgame ... the new provost seems to be putting a great deal of emphasis on research while downplaying service, on campus 
and in the community," he added. 
Joan Aldous, professor of soci­ology, represented another view­point by commenting, "This is so different from most universities where, if you are teaching, it is understood that you are doing research, whether it be in the library, the laboratory, in the community or in one's own office.". 
"Sure some (faculty members) are defensive, especially those who were brought in under the 'old' system...they think that this (emphasis pn research) is a change in the rules," Aldous explained. 
Some of the faculty members see specific reasons for the alleged new push for research. Irwin Press, associate professor of sociology and anthropology, who proposes that the current job crunch has a Jot to do with it. 
''There are more people looking for jobs than there are jobs available...this creates a 'buyer's market,' so the University is in a position to upgrade its faculty,'" Press concluded. 
.Can Research and Teaching Co-exist? 

Much of the worry expressed by the faculty members centers around the relationship between teaching :.ud research work. Even the professors themselves are split on their views. Some say that 
A I to petition for Human Rights W!rek 
Amnesty International (AI), an internatinoal human rights organi­zation which received the Nobel Peach Prize in 1977 for its work, is observing Human Rights Week with a petition drive tomorrow and Sunday, designated as Human Rights Day. 
The petitions are requests to Senators Birch Bayh and Richard 
• Lugar of Indiana to ratify the International Covenants for Human Rights which will be introduced to the Senate early next year. 
The covenants, which have al­ready been ratified by more than 50 nations, are international laws wkh set basic standards for Jiving. B'lth have already been signed by Presi· dent Carter, but must be ratified by the Senate. If the covenants aren't ratified, other nations won't take 
U.S. stands on human rights seriously. 
Petitions will be available at the library and at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dining halls during the lunch and dinner hours. 
The Covenant on Civil Rights guarantees such basic civil rights as freedom of movement in and between countries, fair trial of criminal charges, privacy, freedom of thought, conscience and reli­gion, peaceful assembly and the right to form and join trade unions. 
This covenant prohibits discrimi­nation on such grounds as race, color, sex, nationality, ~religion or political opinions. It also bans torture, arbitrary arrest, slavery and other infringements on a person's right to a secure life. 
AI also wants President Carter to sign and the Senate to ratify the Optional Proctocl to the Covenant on Civil and Political Rfghts. This document would give individuals direct appeal to an International Human Rights Committee if they feel their rights are being denied, but can't get help from their own government . 
The two covenants are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which was adopted by the United Nations on Dec. 10, 1948. 
increased research poses no nega­tive interference with their teach­ing, while others openly wonder whether the two can realistically co-exist. 
"Research has been done on this subject,'' Aldous remarked, adding, "The results tend to point out that there ts essentially no relationship between research and teaching...certainly no negative one. 
"It's been my observation that the people I know who are busiest at research are also the busiest in such activities as the Faculty Senate and community affairs," she noted. 
However, there are other profes­sors who believe that there may be some connection between teaching quality and research if one activity is place .out of balance with the other. 
One faculty member, who re­quested to remain unidentified, said, "The 1emands on the unten­ured faculty members certainly are severe--maybe excessive. 'That makes it hard to concentrate on teaching." 
Press took this point a step further by stating, "I think .it's difficult to make excellent under­graduate work compatible with high level research. You can't combine them...there should be two separate expectations." 
What makes research important? 
Professors also are concerned about the University's expectations concerning the importance of re­search work. • 
In an address in 1August, [continued on page 6] 
The 

Windjammer 
CREATIVE­HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RELAXING ATMOSPHERE FREE HAIR ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 
• 
1637 LW W . So. Bend 232-6622
\ . ' 
Appt.. only 

done (regarding the lottery) until after a decision (by the Housing Office) has been made," Goldrick said. 
Price noted that the University doesn't guarantee housing to any students except freshmen. "With the stay hall system (in which students often live in the same dorm all four years) we are giving people the impression we are giving them housing," he said. 
The housing shortage doesn't ap(5ear to be too severe to Price. "I have reason to believe it won't be too bad because people are con­scious of it," he said. He noted tat many students have come to him and said they wanted to move off campus. 
"One guy in particular asked to be placed at the bottom of the lottery list. He wants to move off, but his parents won't allow him to," Price said. 
Price said that he is working 
closely with the Offices for Student 
Affairs, Business Affairs and the 
Provost. ''This problem is of great interest to everybody,'' he empha• sized, adding, "The Administra­tion is interested in the students' welfare. We're all trying to do what's best for the students," he added. 
Observer runs 
last issue 
on Friday 

The final issue of The Observer will be Fri., Dec. 8. The initial issue for the Spring semester "'!'I be Jan. 18, 1979. 
Fall subscribers who wish to extend their subscription for the spring semester should remit $10, payable to The Ob'server, Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind., postmarked before Jan. 1, 1979. To insure delivery of the Cotton Bowl wrap-up and "Year in Review" features which comprise the initial Observer for the spring, this cutcoff date will be scrictly adhered to by 
our  Circulation Department.  No  
complimentary  copies  will  be  
allowed.  

Dear Children belonging to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Fal'nily (i.e., Faculty, Administrators, Married Students, Maintenance Staffs, Office Personnel, etc.): 
Along with your parents 
you are invited to a St. 
Nicholas Day party this 
evening, Dec. 6, St. 
Nicholas' Day, in the 
LaFortune Ballroom, fQI-
Iowing the lighting of the 
Campus Christmas tree 
in front of LaFortune at seven o'clock.. Santa 
Claus will be there, along with elves, gifts 
out of Santa's bag, a magic show, music, and 
good things to eat. 
Students who are friends of St. Nicholas (alias Santa Claus) are also invited. 
Rev. Robert F. Griffin, CSC, The University Chaplain 
Sponsored by the Student Body Govern­
• 
ment, the Notre Dame­St. Mary's Right-to-Life, with assistance from .Campus Ministry. 


Wednesday, December 6, 1978
j the observer 
For equal opportunity 
Woman plays Santa Claus 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -Changing times have made Santa Claus an equal opportunity elf. 
In one shopping center in the Hoosier capital, when the kiddies climb aboard a make-shift sleigh to see the jolly old boy himself, they're actually chatting with a woman. 
Nikki Cramer, 24, is one of five Santas employed at one of the city's malls. In this case, a spokesman for the shopping center didn't want its name used to guard against a Lady Santa backlash. 
By day, Cramer is a licensed practical nurse at Indiana Univer­sity Medical Center. By night, she trades her uniform for a Santa suit and beard. Once the costume is in place, only her nose, the upper part of her cheeks and her eyes are 
too/die and plastic mold design­electronics technology 

Ched< into a skilled profession 
FULLY ACCREDITED 

• apartment too small? I  
I  I  
I Notre  I  
I: I  Dame Ave. Apts  II ;I 
I  tl  

Oily or Evening Classes 
Monthly Tuition Plan 
For registration details mme in or mil Mr. Judkins or Mr. Gage (219) 289-6391 
ACME INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 

Sphinx shows .age after 5000 ,years 
CAIRO, Egypt [AP[--The lion's body of the Sphinx is firm, but the human face of the majestic monu­ment is showing the effects of 5,000 years of howling sandstorms, scorching desert days and chilling nights. 
Its seven-foot nose has been missing for centuries. The left eye is sagging and the entire left side of the 13-foot face is distorted. 
"The Sphinx is sick," the daily newspaper AI Akhbar reports. "It's suffering from acute anemia. Unless the right medication and treatment is applied, the neck could give in to begin with." 
But the method of treating the time-honored patient sharply di­vides art and restoration experts so proud of the aging wonder just outside Cairo, near the Pyramids at Giza. 
It's been five years since the Sphinx received a facelift -an "injection" of barium pigments to strengthen the area from the neck up. 
"I! badly needs anther shot," says Zahi Hawass. inspector of the pyramids section of Egypt's anti­quities department. "The outer layer is peeling off all over." 
But another expert, Ahmed Saleh, the department's director of research and restoration, advocates building a "windshield" around 
the oS-foot-high unprotected  mon­ 
ument.  
"It  needs  trees  around  it  to  

protect against sandstorms," he told AI Akhbar. "Those sand particles become a cyclone -they 
SUBSCRIB€RS: to €xt€l1b youR SUBSCRIPtiOn to 
%The Observer 
an indepenc11ent student newsDaoer
• serving notre dame & st. marys thROUqh th€ SPRinq '79 S€ffi€St€R 
S€1lb $10.00 anb you~ abbuess to 
th€ OBS€1N€R­
SUBSCR1Pt10nS BOXQ notR€bam€, 1nb1ana 46556 

WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL IN THE AIR FORCE. 

Women start out on the same fooling as men in Air Force ROTC Women wear the same insignia and hold the same cadet positions in AFROTC. just as they do later on as Air Force officers 
And the same AI'ROTC scholarship can be yours as a woman If you qualify. you can have your tuition. book costs and lab fees paid by the Air Force. and receive $100 a month for other expenses. It helps free you to concentrate on your education And thafs important. 
As an Air Force officer. youll be expected to use your train mg and education. and be ,, leader managing people and complex systems. You·u he handed executive responsibility 'tdrtmg with your first Job. 
lfs d great way t<J bt• equal. and ,, great way to serve vour <;,ountrv Check into the AFROTC program at your cam.pus Be 'ure to ask artmt AI'ROTC <eholarships -vou may be 
Gateway too great way of life. 
hit the Sphinx on the face, drop to the feet and the wind lifts them up again in a continuous cyclical motion." 
Saleh said the monument's latest ailment is a recently noted uneven­ness in the wate.r table underneath it. Some experts fear this may cause it to lose its bal;mce. 
Although the Sphinx looks as solid as a five-millenium-old sculp­tural marvel can, AI Akhbar kicked off a public campaign for urgent measures to protect one of Egypt's prime attractions. "Speak up to authorities for restoration,'' the paper apealed. 
The latest problems are only an episode in the turbulent history of the monument. 
King Khephren, the builder of the Giza Pyramid, had the Sphinx catved out of a limestone block that measured 239 feet in length, the lion's body representing the power of the king and face bearing his features. 
Because it faced the rising sun, it was considered a sun god and later acquired the name Abou EI-Hol, 
_ the father of terror. 

Over the centuries, the Sphinx often had trouble keeping its head above the shifting sands. It was last cleared from the dunes only 40 years ago. 
Its nose was damaged centuries ago. One legend .says Napolean had it lopped off to display French supremacy after he landed in Egypt in 1798. Another tale attributes the missing ·nose to the folly of a deranged Egyptian. 
The annual Christmas bazaar at Saint Mary's boasts a new record of 39 booths. Featuring Third World articles, African crafts, Indian jewelry, baskets, macrame works, jewelry, and baked goods, the bazaar will be open 10 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. daily through Fri., Dec. 8, in leMans McAlpine] lobby. Betsy Masana, this year's bazaar 
chairperson, expects the event to bring in about $200 from the sale of baked goods and raffle tickets for an eight-foot Christmas stocking filled with toys. The money will be donated to a local charity. [Photos by Ken 


visible. 

She makes her deep voice even deeper and "people don't know the difference," she said. 
"Most of the children who come up are scared. If they are really scared, I talk in my normal voice," she said. "But some are so scared they scream, and you can't do anything but tempt them with a sucker." 
Most of the screamers are be­tween 1 and 3 years old but there's no age limit on people who want to visit Santa. Cramer has had teenagers climb onto her lap and give her their wish list which has included requests for a diamond ring and a possum coat. 
When older people finish with Santa, the elves tell them she's a woman. Often, they're surprised 
~--------------------------~ 
r2 bedrooms compl~tely furnished 
1-complete kitchen 
I . 1-off-street parking 
' I ...up to 4 students I 1-s280-300/monthI 
IIcall234-6647 

L----------------,-~-·-·-·-·-········.. 
and take second looks, but they 
don't say much, she said. 

A native of Idaho, Cramer came 
to Indianapolis three months ago. 
A friend clipped a Santa want ad 
for her and urged Cramer to apply, 
hoping that it would help dispel her 
homesickness. 

In a sense, Cramer is carrying on a family tradition by her portrayal of the North Pole's most famous resident. She said her father played Santa during the last two Christmas seasons at parties and church functions. 
Her male co-workers warned her she wouldn't have a separate dressing room, but so far that hasn't posed a problem. In most cases, she said, one Santa is usually dressed before the other is off duty. 


DETROIT [AP)-Shoes by Gucci. Fashions by Halston. Now there are Christmas trees by Fontana. 
Jeff Fontana hires out to affluent Detroit-area folks who pay him $300 to $1,000 to decorate their Yule trees. 
His only rules: no colored spotlights shining on aluminum trees and -no plastic, revolving Santa Clauses. 
"I'll even decorate a plastic tree if it's in keeping with the look a client wants to achieve. You have to look at the house, talk with the people. Things have to balance," Fontana stresses. 
For the client trying to buy 
Due to fuel shortage 
Price of gasoline will increase 
NEW YORK [API -Motorists will be paying a couple of cents more for a gallon of gasoline within a week because of the current tight supply of the fuel, industry· ana­lysts predicted y~sterday. 
"Before next week is out, you will probably see a two-or three­cent increase in most markets," said Dan Lundberg, publisher of the Lundberg Letter, an influential industry newsletter. "This won't take place. in specific areas, it will take place on a national level -and especially in rural areas." 
"There's no question the shortage is going to bring some increase,'' said Charles Matties, a West Hartford, ·cT. Exxon dealer who is president of the National Congress of Petroleum Retailers. "I would expect to see a few cents upward movement.'' 
The increase is expected to last al long as there is tightness in supply. The oil companies esti­mate that the tight supply will last about a month, but some experts say it will be longer. The oil companies and the Energy De­partment say there is no shortage. 
According to figures compiled by Lundberg, the price increase has already started. The national average price of a gallon of gasoline rose about half a cent in November. So far this year, the national average is up by four cents a gallon. 
In Indianapolis, for example, 
premium gasoline containing lead 
rose 1.3 cents to 73.3 cents a 
gallon in November. In Des 
Moines, it was up 2 cents to 76.7 
cents a gallon, according to Lund­
berg . 
. The price rises stem in part form 
tightness in gasoline supplies. 
Shell Oil Co., the nation's largest 
gasoline producer, has cut supplies 
of all products to serv~e stations. 
Standard Oil of Indiana, which sells 
Amoco gasoline, has cut dealers' 
supplies of unleaded gasoline. 
elegance, Fontana might remove some inner branches and twine silver garlands around the center of the tree. Pheasant plumes. gold sprays and satin bows go on the branch tips. 
"I try not to overdo a tree," the decorator says. "But some of my clients go a little ga-ga at Christ­mas. One, he's an attorney, he's like an 8-year-old kid at Christmas. 
"He's got a plastic Santa with a button for a nose. You press the nose and an Oriental voice says, 'Melly Clissmas.' I've tried hiding that thing but he insists on using it every year." 
Other major oil companies say their supplies are also tight, but they haven't announced plans to ration the product to dealers. 
Dealers are raising their prices to compensate for what in many cases, especially Shell and Amoco, will be lower volume. 
"It's just economics," said Mat­ties. "If a dealer now only has 75 percent of the product he was getting, he's going to have to increase his profit to offset his loss 
DOCNESBURY 
.. ANO IF 7HE 0/.0 MAN HA5 H/5 WAY, I'M SURE-lHE SllJ<Y fA/Ill BE PAGe ONE. Yal HAve 
ANY 51/6G13STICWS .45 70 fiO(,(J 

in sales. The overhead goes on." 
The tight supply is the result of an unusually high amount of driv­ing in the late summer and fall. 
·Gasoline demand, which tradition­ally drops offmarkedly after Labor Day, failed to do so this year as Americans took advantage of good autumn weather. Although the oil companies had plenty of crude oil on hand, they couldn't make gaso­line fast enough to keep up with demand. 
by Garry Trudeau 

fi£U., ANY 51Df{'f A80liT ~f?NING RASCALS JliST HOfJ!s HAS TO L./illtJCFF IJIITH THAT? 
CtJN6I?E!i6MAN ROYBAL. 
.... 
Wednesday, December 6, 1978 the Observer 
5 

Junior Class talks about housing
. 
by Joe Slovbiec StaH Reporter 

The Junior Class discussed the possibility of a large-scale demon­stration against the off-campus housing lottery at a class meeting last night in the Keenan-Stanford lobby. 
Junior Class President Dan McCurrie told the crowd of juniors who filled the entire lobby that he had asked Student Body President Andy McKenna to present a propo­sal to Fr. John Van Wolvlear, Vice President for Student Affairs, that new rooms be constructed in Holy Cross, Lewis and the University storage area in the Keenan base­ment. These rooms would accomo­date approximately 100 students. 
The Hall Presidents Council (HPC) rejected a proposale that halls vote on whether to accept a few extra students in each hall in order to prevent a lottery. This idea would allow the halls to absorb the students who could not be housed in the newly constructed rooms. After the HPC meeting, McCurrie was "disappointed the Hall Presidents Council would not accept a small inconvenience in order to save a few individuals in the Junior Class from bearing the 
entire  burdon  (of  moving  off  
campus)."  .  
McKenna  stated  that  he  ·or  

Rev. Langois 
lectures 
on Zen 

Zen Buddhist Master Rev. Kongo Langois from the Zen Temple of Chicago will speak Thursday night at 7:30 p.m. in Room 104 O'Shaughnessy, Spon­sored by the Theology Department and the Institute for International Studies, Ll!-ngois will discuss the unique aspects of Zen tradition and examine Zen meditation tech­niques. 
1Student Body Vice-President Mike Roohan will· meet with Van W olvlear to discuss the proposal for construction of new rooms today or tomorrow. McKenna said he will ''try to get some kind of commitment on how they might accommodate the excess." He wants the Administration to "guarantee the overcrowding is only for a year." 
The Campus Life Council also recommended construction of rooms in Lewis and Holy Cross, according to McKenna. The possi­bility of construction of rooms in the University storage area in the Keenan basement has been explored for the last couple of days, he noted. Latest estimates from the Office for Business Affairs state there will be an excess of 130 
students on campus next year. 
McCurrie asked juniors to encourage their parents to write letters to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh expressing disapproval of the housing lottery. He says the Junior Class will continue to protest until the "administration promises it will not use a lottery." 

Ideas for a long-term solution of campus overcrowding include · construction of a new dorm and townhouses. McCurrie wants the Administration to act on the solu­tions adopted by the Junior Calss only for the 1979-1980 school year and to make a serious commitment to arrive at a long-term solution for the 1980-81 school year. 

• 

Financial Aid 
1979-80 ·AP-plications Now Available 
. 

----------------· 
Scholarships Grants Loans Jobs 
OHice of Financial Aid Room 111 of Ad Bldg. 
---------------------------, 
Hair Concepts 1Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
open late tues.-thurs. 8pm 
North Y2 mile east of notre dame 18381 "L1:tison at lnd 23 272-7222 
2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood
south 291-1001 
master charge visa 
~----------------------------~ 

.....~........~..~----~~--------~---W.-e•d•ne•s•d•a•y•,•D•e•c•e•m•be~r·6·,·1•9•7•8--------------,--------.-.----------------------------~--~• 
r ' 6 the observer 
.-------.--.-.---­

Profs express ideas on research and teaching 
it's worthless," he remarked, go 
time they are conducting research enjoyment that continually cause
ing so far as to define research as it would be difficult to gain "meaningful publication." recognition anywhere off the im­work. professors to continue their re­However, publication in majm 
mediate campus. Only a small minority of the search work. At the departmental faculty are involved in such an level, informal pressure from the
journals can be difficult, with Commenting that research is article rejection rates running al business for the University that arrangement, however, according chairman as well as smaller pay approximately 75 percent, accord­helps cut operating costs, the to the source. increases than normal also make 
ing to one source. unnamed source took another view keeping up one's research work a tenure Is closely related good idea.
Conway also mentioned a recent on the question of what makes 
research necessary. However, Conway pointed outsurbey which indicated that, in the field of business research, the onl,, ''The importance of research 
The tenure system is tied to that, tenure notwithstanding, "it's people who read the published seems to be in how well it is fund<!d discussions of research, especially not impossible to get rid of some­work in the journals were graduak 
by outside source"," he said. for untenured personnel, because one under the present situation if "tudents and the authors. According to the source, by the provost has made it clear that someone really wants to get rid of ress emphasized, "'leaching at
[Continued from page 3] It does appear that publication is receiving a research grant from tenure. "Most of the pres<>ure is O'Meara told new faculty members crucial, however, because the pro­such an organization as the Nation­on the associates (who have not ne undergraduate level doesn't that. "Our faculty is expected to do vost has made it clear that letters of al Science Foundation, a professor yet secured tenure), but for the full nean less quality, but a lot less 
epth. There's a lot less concernfirst class research and to publish evaluation from established faculty can, in effect, "buy up teaching professors, there are no more Nith the details and more concern
it.'' at other institutions are essential in time." By following this course of carrots,'' the source remarked. Press agrees with the provost. assessing the significance of a action, faculty members can reduce He added, however, that there with the synthesis of your particu­professor's research. Without tbeir teaching loads or take com­are several factors such as adher­lar subject to make it more interest­
"If you don't publish your work. 
ing to students who aren't going to
publication in recognized journals, plete leaves of absence during the ence to a sense of duty and 
Last Call for SPRING BREAK FORT LAUDERDALE 
March 17 -March 25 
Holiday Inn Oceanside 
In the Heart of the Action 
$209 per person quad occupancy 
Price includes: Roundtrip Transportation 
CALL: 

234-2196 
make your reservations now 

one cannot expect to be promoted you." without a solid research back­ground. Faculty members 
In his Augu!;it address, O'Meara make suggestions told the faculty, ''Three things-­excellent teaching, distinguished It is clear that many of the faculty research, compatibility with the members feel that there are prob­goals of the institution (are lems concerning the issues of needed). Not some of the above. research and tenure at Notre All of the above." Dame, and many of them also have 
Where this leaves presently expressed suggestions to improve tenured faculty, if they fail to live the situation. up to such research expsrctations, is Conway stressed that there in question. shoudl be enough flexibility in the 
O'Meara admitted that there are tenure selection process to allow some faculty members who are not for the promotion of people who are active in research, adding, "per­not strictly reasearch-oriented. haps the job security (that comes He proposes a standardized CAP with tenure) is excessive." (Committee for Advancement ·and 
Tenure is defined in the Fcaulty Promotions) system becuase he Handbook as "permanence of noted that, in some cases, individ­appointment." This means that a ual departments have more rigid faculty member who is tenured rules for advancement than the only may be removed under such University. extreme circumstances as neglect . Press suggests that the Univer­of academic duties, conviction of a sity should aim for the maintenance felony or "disregard for the Catho­of small, high-quality graduate iic character of this institution." programs whose professors are 
The unnamed source agreed with basically geared toward research. O'Meara that there are professors To balance the graduate programs, who fail to live up to research he advocates an excellent under­expectations once they secure graduate level as "role models," 
•**********~************** ~*****• 
collegiate crossword * *
* c * 
: ft.,..-t.O.O ! * o.S~ * 
!t"c\s\Cft : 
* ;: Come doyour Christmas Shopping !* * -* * ;: Lemans Lobby -smc !* 
* *
! Tues., Dec.5thtu Ftl, Ftl., Dec.810-5 pm ! 
!* Sponsored by smc Social Commlaalor. !* 
*********************************' 
N.D./Toronto Student Exchange 
WHAT IS IT? 
An educ:A~tional, cultural, and social exchange open to all students at Notre Dame • 
• 
WHEN IS IT? 

Feb. 2nd-Sth N.D. students at Toronto 
March 2nd-5th Toronto students at N.D. 
HOW TO GET INVOLVED? 
Sign-up will be on a first come, first serve basis. Openings available for 117 students maximum. 
HOW MUCH DOES IT COST? 
A sso.oo non-refundable fee is due by Dec. 8th at the Student Government Offices. Make checks payable ·to Student Government Fund. 
Further infonnation can be obtained by calling Chuck DelGrande at 1938. 
ACROSS  41  A musketeer  11  Landed estate  
43 Wage  ---­ of words  12  ---­ France  
1 Like  zoo  animals  44 Thick  13  ---­ facie  
6 Hits  46 Wriggling  14 Former footwear  
11  Dreaded disease  47 Feline sound  19 Retaining wall  
13 Language-related  48 Canoeist, e.g.  22 Cattle thief  
subject  50 Singer----Davis  24 Having feeling  
15 "The  ---­ Ni!jhts"  51  Great joy  26 Hindu attire  
16 Travel  need (2 wds)  53 Greed  28 Mass  ---­ 
17 Arrest  55 Tennis players, at  30 Meadow  
18 Clear and shrill  times  31  Trigonometry  

20 Pitcher's statistic 56 Agents of retribution abbreviation 
21 ----the Tentmaker 57 Raises 33 Rower 
23 Musical-note parts 58 Cults 34 Worker at Tiffany's 
24 In a ----(angry) 35 Not knowing 
25 Uncle ----DOWN 37 Lab worker 
27 Egg cells 38 Comforts 
28 Apportions Type of candy 39 Toystore mer­
29 College in 2 Bear Bryant's team chandise Philadelphia 3 Talk at length 40 Ways' partner 31 Caruso, for one 4 Early explorer 42 Grooms, in India 32 Arboreal animals 5 Uses a phone 44 House need (2 wds.) 6 Drives away 45 Roof edge
34 Famous Child 7 ----shark 48 Coffin stand 
36 Madmen 8 Third most common 49 Appoint 
39 Chromosomal written word 52 Tennessee powermaterial 9 Aromatic spice project 
40 Mal de ----10 More frightening 54 -room 
[Continued on page 7] 
f'l~.L~~lrT 

Michael lloll-1 
HE.Y.,~ HITCH HAS ANEW 
FLIN<:J 6011'16 WITH A 

FEJ1ALc TYPE PERSON 
/ 
Answers to yesterday's 
p~1zzle 


• 

• 

8 
the observer WednesdayI December 6, 1978 
Irish pivotmen 'ready to play' against Northwestern Wildcats 
by Ray O'Brien season ago, the senior co-captain for you because you're Notre Sports Editor has an all important question Dame, you have to be ready." written across the back of his With Dave Batton gone, the 
While Notre Dame's guards and locker: "Are you ready?" responsibility on Laimbeer and forwards have already been tested "I wasn't ready to play last Flowers shoulders becomes inten­defensively be high scoring players year," admits the 6-9, 216 lb. sified. Last year had the best half at those positions in the Rice and center. "It was a really bad year in his career against UCLA in Valparaiso games, tonight the Irish for me because I wasn't motivated. Pauley Pavilion as the Irish centers will get to show just how I came to the games and said, "It's stunned the Bruins 69-66. Some­ready they are as they go up just another game," so it's no one will have to pick up the slack against Northwestern's Brian wonder I played bad." left since Batton is not longer Jung. Flowers' statistics bear out just around to hit his jumper or crash 
Jung is a seven-foot pivot man what a fall off his junior year was. the boards. Then there is the job of that has been the wildcats focal The Huntington Woods, Michigan stoppign All-American David point on offense. The transfer native averaged 6. 9 points a game Greenwood. student has averaged over 20 and a4.8 rebounds, both career low "I think we can pick up the points a game to date. He is also a totals. He also shot a paltry 48 scoring slack left by Batton's good challenge for Bruce Flowers percent from the floor, quite a drop graduation," commented Flowers. and Bill Laimbeer before they meet from the 60 and 59 percent accur­"Tonight I was just in the right a better match in Pauley Pavilion acy marks he recorded in his first place at the right time. On any on Saturday night. two seasons. given night any player on this team 
The center position has always "This year is going to be can pick up the scoring." been a key area to any team's different because I am a senior I The Irish have looked impressive success;-so it says something for have something to prove," repeats in their first two contests, especi­Digger Phelps' sqaud that his two Flowers. "Even though I am not ally on defense. While the offense co-captains are stationed there. It starting, I am very enthusiastic. has gotten points on the board, has been a while since Notre Dame Since Bill (Laimbeer) and I will be however, turnovers have been boasted a dominated center but splitting time, I will just have to get abundant. Flowers feels this is Flowers showed in the Rice game more done in the time that I'm in only a temporary problem. : that he can be a big influence on there." "We jsut have to get our timin~ the team's success; an area in The biggest apparent change in down on offense. When you play which he was severely lacking last Flowers performance so far this as many people as we do it is going year. year is that the defensive stalwart to take time to get into a flow and ~/ 
"This year is going to be is concentrating more and for know what everyone else is doing, different from last year," longer periods of time. That is something we· hope to 
-
~ 
explained ~<lowers after his 17 point "I had lapses out there last improve on before playing UCLA!" MVP performance in the 105-61 year," he confesses. "I just But UCLA is two games away 
.;;..~,,.,,

trouncing of the Owls. though I could go out there and and Flowers is taking them one a;t a Just to make sure that Flowers play and everything would go my time this year. And you can be,t,he Kelly Tripucka has to put points on the board if the Irish are to 
does not forget the slump of a way. But with everyone shooting will be ready this time around. keep their high ranking. [Photo by Doug Christian] 
Pete Rose signs with Philadelphia Phi/lies 
ORLANDO, FLA [AP] -Pete offered by other teams but the Monday night she never had seen with his agent, Cincinnati attorney he said. "But it wasn't bad. You Rose made if official Tuesday, determining factors apparently her husband more upset than he Reuven Katz, to officially announce could stack it up and show dogending one of baseball's most were Rose's close friendship with was after leaving Philadelphia last his decision and explain how he couldn't jump over it." spirited free agent auctions by several Phillies players and Phila­Thursday. made up his mind. 
Rose said he was impressed with agreeing to a four-year contract delphia's willingness to add a Even as that news conference "It was a tough decision," he all of the clubs who lyld bid for him. 
with the Philadelphia Phillies fourth year to the offer he had at ended, eliminating the Phillies -said. "Up until Sunday morning, which makes him the game's first rejected. prematurely as it turned out, there nobody knew where I was going. I "I wish I could have played a highest paid player. Only last Thursday, Rose had was a touch of indecision in Rose. 
didn't know myself." year with each of them," he said. 
Terms were not announced but it eliminated the Phillies from the He turned to Ruly Carpente\.-, 
At that point, Bill Giles, execu­"They treated me like a son. It was 
was learned that Rose will get sweepstakes and left four teams in owner of the Phillies, and said, tive viCe president of the Phillies, tough to say no to them." about $800,000 a year to join the the running--Pittsburgh, Atlanta, half-joking, "If I change my mind called Rose, fulfilling a promise he 
Rose shrugged off suggestionsPhillies, who hope he can end their St. Louis and Kansas City. But one on the plane (going home) can •I had made to the 37-year-old super­that the free agent dollar bonanzafrustration of three straight playoff by one, those teams were ruled out come back?" star on Thursday. 
was bad foe. baseball.

failures. on Monday and Philadelphia resur­Eventually, that was exactly "He said he would get back to The fat contract actually was for · faced. what Rose did. me if anything developed," Rose "If they didn't have it, they less money than he had been Karolyn Rose, Pete's wife, said Rose flew to the winter meetings said. "that's when the door (to wouldn't give it away," he said. 

Golic, Huffman and Restic top long list of Irish All-Americans 
...,. ..-.. . ' 
(AP] -Notre Dame's Bob Golic, ~ ·, t ~ Dave Huffman and Joe Restic and Ball State's Ken ~<:remer were named Tuesday to the Associated ··-···· *'.. Press All-America college footbaU team for 1978. 
*****Dame players.
Six other Notre two each from Indiana and Purdue and one more from Ball State received honorable mention. 
Golic, a 6-foot-3, 244-pound senior linebacker from Willowick, Ohio, was the only player from an Indiana school named to the AP First Team Southern California, 5-11, 183, All-american first team this year. Offense Junior, San Fernando, Calif He was a second-team All-Ameri­Ends-Jerry Butler, Clemson, 6-1, 
Defense can last year. 175, Senior, Ware Shoals, S.C., 

Ends-Hugh Green, Pittsburgh,
Emanual Tolbert, Southern Metho­
, a 6-5, 245-pound 6-2, 218, Sophomore, Natchez,
dist, 5-10, 180, Junior, Little Rock,
cenk .. ds picked on the second Miss.; AI Harris, Arizona State,
Ark.

unit for 1978. Kremer, a 6-5, 6-5, 240, Senior, Wheeler AFB,
Tackles-Kelvin Clark, Nebraska,
255-pound defensive tackle, and Hawaii.
6-4, 270, Senior, Odessa, Texas;
Restic, a 6-2, 190-pound defensive Tackles-Bruce Clark, Penn State, 
Keith Dorney, Penn State, 6-5, 262, 
back, made the third team. 6-2V2, 268, Junior, New Castle,
Senior, Allentown, PA. 

PA; Marty Lyons, Alabama, 6-5,Receiving honorable mention Guards-Pat Howell, Southern 243, Senior, St. Petersburg, Fla. 
were the starting Irish backfield of California, 6-6, 255, Senior, Linebackers-John Corker, Okla­quarterback Joe Montana and run-Fresno, Calif.; Greg Roberts, 
homa State, 6-5, 228, Junior,ning backs Vagas Ferguson and Oklahoma, 6-3, 260, Senior, Nacog­
Miami, Fla.; Tom Cousineau, Ohio Jer~me H~aven~, and wi_de doches, Texas. 
State, 6-3, 224, Senior, Fairviewreceiver Kns Hames, offensive . . 
Park, Ohio; Bob Golic, Notretackle Tim Foley and linebacker . Center-Jim Ritcher, North Caro­Dame, 6-3, 244, Senior, Willowick,Steve Hcimkreiter also received hna. State•. 6-3, 242, Junior, Ohio; Jerry Robinson, UCLA,honorable mention. Medma, Oh10. 
6-2111, 214, Senior, Santa Rosa,· d Quarterback-Chuck Fusina,
Other Indiana players name to p S t 195 s · Calif.
6 1 

the honorable mention squad were enn ta eo, -• • emor, 
Backs-Kenny Easley, UCLA,
Ball State defensive back Bill Stahl, McKees Rock, PA. 
6-1 'A, 202, Sophomore, Chesa­Purdue's Keena Turner at defen-Running Backs-Ted Brown, peake, VA; Johnnie Johnson, sive end and Ken Loushin at North Carolina State, 5-10, 199, Texas, 6-0, 190, Junior, Longvie•·,middle guard, and Indiana's Joe Senior, High Point, N.C.; B_illy Texas; Jeff Nixon, Richmond, 6-4, Norman at linebacker and Mark Sims, Oklahoma, 6-0, 205, Jumor, 
195, Senior, Glendale, VA. Heidel at center. Hooks, Texas; Charles White, Philadelphia) opened again." "It took a long time for me to get to 
Rose said the Phillies' offer was the top of my profession. I felt if the lowest of the five finalists. "I others were getting it, I wanted it didn't take the best offer, by far," too." 
Belles win, 59-33 
by Kathy Sweeney rought the· Belles to within two SportsWriter 
points of the Foresters. Junior Nancy Nowalk followed with two The Saint Mary's Belles basket­successive buckets, putting Saint ball team opened their 1978-79 Mary's in front, while the tough season with an impressive victory rebounding of Huntington's Linda over the Huntington College Fores­Haye kept the Foresters in the 'ters, 59-33. · game.
The Belles were led to their Martha Kelly parleyed an assist victory by Diane Klucka and Marth by Maureen O'Brien into a four­Kelly, who scored ten points 
point advantage. With four min­;tpiece. utes left in the half, a hoop by
Huntington jumped to a three­Forester Cindy Owens ties the point lead three minutes into the 
score. Kathleen Cullen pulled game. A Meg Holland drive down some key rebounds keeping the Belles in contention, as the two
AP Top Twenty teams traded points. A steal by O'Brien sparked 
(AP]. The Top Twenty teams in SMC's offensive play, as she and The Associated Press college Mey Holland led the Belles to a basketball poll, with first-place ten-point advantage at the half. votes in parenthese, season records The second half found the Belles and total points. Points based on settled into a tight defense and a 20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-penetrating offense. The first 9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: basket of the half was made by 
1. 
Duke (51) 4-0 1,153 freshman Mary Zuehlke. Holland 

2. 
UCLA (7) 3-0 1,072 added two more baskets and a 

3. 
Notre Dame 2-0 987 score by Klucka after a steal 

4. 
Michigan State 1-0 881 stretched the Belles lead to 34-22. 

5. 
Kansas 3-0 845 The Belles continued their im­

6. 
Michigan 2-0 794 pressive play with a number of 

7. 
Louisville 3-1 777 blocked shots and fast breaks 

8. 
N. Carolina St. 4-1 756 leading to some easy buckets. 

9. 
Syracuse 4-0 647 Commenting on the game, Coach 


10. Kentucky 2-0 644 Jerry Dallessio was quite pleased . 11. Southern Cal 2-0 526 with the "total team effort" in the 
1 12. Louisiana State 4-0 505 Belles first victory of the year. 
13. 
Texas 3-1 455 Dallessio added that, "I was 

14. 
North Carolina 3-1 375 especially impressed with the 

15. 
Nevada-Las Vegas 3-0 353 team's passing and inside shots." 

16. 
Marquette 2-0 252 The next game on the schedule 

17. 
San Francisco 3-1 147 for Saint Mary's will be a home 

18. 
Rutgers 2-1 116 contest against Grace College Sat­. 19. Maryland 2-2 73 urday afternoon, beginning at 1 


20. Georgetown, D.C. 3-0 58 p.m. at the Angela Athletic facility. 









