
Thursday, October 12, 1978
Vol. XIII, No. 33 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
To counter-bookstore deficiencies 
Roche releases proposal for. record store 
by Pat Mangan 

Editor's Note: This Is the second In a two-part series examining a proposal for·a Student Union record store. 
To counter what he called inade-. quacy of the Bookstore's record department, Student Union Direc­tor Bill Roche, recently released an eight-page proposal recommending the establishment of a full time student operated record store on campus. 
Roche said the proposed SU record shop would eventually "offer students a better selection of popular albums, quicker service, and lower prices than are presently being offered by the Bookstore's record department.'' Roche also said that the rate at which the SU record store would branch out would depend on student support. 
• The proposal states, "Prices in 
\he Bookstore for popular albums vary from $5.33 to $9. 73," whereas the prices charged by local record shops range from S3.99 to $6.98. 
Stating that the SU's prices would vary from $4 to SS Roche explained that the SU record shop would not be profit oriented. He added that it would not have to pay rent and since most of the work on the store would be done voluntar­ily, it would have a very low overhead and, consequently, a low mark-up. . 
Roche said that in addition to lower prices, the SU record stote would provide a wider and more up-to-date selection of records. An SU survey, estimated the Book-store's total rock album inventory investment at $9,056.25. 
At the end of the first year of .operation, the SU store would have an inventory of $14,000, Roche said, and after the second year, an inventory of$22,000. He explained that this rate of growth would be possible because the entire profit would be reinvested toward in­creasing the stock. 
Roche added, "Our goal is for a $25,000 inventory which should be realized in the first semester of the third year, after which the profits 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------..would be used to benefit the 
University community." 
"Even a $10,000 inventory could meet the~students' needs if it were organized properly." he said. 
Explaining what he considered improper organization, Roche said that he noted an overabundance at the Bookstore of KISS albums, a group which he believed few ND students listen to. 
On the other hand, he cited a scarcity of Bruce Springsteen and Neil Young albums. Roche said that the SU store would be sensi­tive to student preferences and 
would  also  co-ordinate  its  stock  
with upcoming concerts.  
Criticizing  the  slowness  with  

which the Bookstore obtains new releases, Roche claimed that the SU record shop would obtain new releases immediately since it would have no middle man to deal with. 
The proposal also cla'imed that the SU s~ore would provide an 
"excellent educational experi­
ence'' for the students involved 
with its management~ 
It specifically cited practical ex­
perience such as in day-to-day 
management, including personnel, 
sales, and inventory control. Roche 
described the experience as "a 
unique opportunity that does not 
exist in the traditional classroom 
setting." 
Student body Vice President Mike Roohan said, "I think the SU store would be beneficial to the students. 
It would create more jobs and give students valuable experience in management. Also the SU would be used more, and most of all, the service would be better--students would be able to buy albums at really reasonable prices without going to town." 
The proposal cited possible future services, including turntable clinics, the sale of sound equip­ment, record cleaning and preserv­ing devices, and service of stereo equipment. 
In order to establish the SU record store, the proposal calls for a rertovation of room 2-C in LaFortune at a cost of $2,491. 
The renovation would include the construction of a dividing wall, four 8foot by 4foot record racks, a counter for a cash register, and the addition of an electrical outlet on the west wall. The proposal also provides for a new paint job. 
In addition to the cost of renova­[continued on page 14] 

WASHINGTON [AP)-President 
Carter yesterday urged an arriving 
Egyptian delegation to ''stay until 
we get this settled" as he prepared 
to open the next round of Middle 
East peace talks. 
''I'll be available any time I'm needed," Carter told the two leaders of the Egyptian delegation, Defense Minister Kamel Hassan Ali and Acting Foreign Minister Boutros Ghali as they called on him at the White House. The Israeli delegation, led by Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Defense Minis­ter Ezer Weizman, arrived here Tuesday. 
The goal of the upcoming talks is to draw three lines in the sands of the Sinai, a task which is all that remains in the way of a treaty that would end 30 years of warfare between Egypt and Israel. 
Carter plans to formally welcome the foreign and defense ministers of both countries today in a brief, ceremonial opening session of the continuing negotiations that were begun at the Camp David summit. 
After the White House cere­mony the talks are scheduled to move across the street to Blair House, the government's guest residence, where Secretary of State Cyrus Vance plans to represent the United States. A United Nations flag will fly over the building while the talks continue. 
American optimism about the outcome of the talks is grounded in the belief that the difficult issues between the two countries were resolved at Camp David and in the Israeli Kneset. 
largely drawing lines on a map of · covered the West Bank and Gaza the Sinai, the desert territory which Strip issues. Israel captured from Egypt in 1967, In theory, the two agreements and has now agreed to return. could proceed on separate tracks. 
One line, to be drawn roughly 30 There is nothing in their language miles east of the Suez Canal, will which links progress on one to mark the closest point that Egyp-progress on another. tian troops are to be allowed to But, as Carter told his news approach the Israeli border. conference Tuesday, in the minds 
Another, ranging from 12-25 of him, Begin, and President miles west of the Israeli border, Anwar Sadat of Egypt, the two will delineate a demilitarized zone agreements are linked, and there open only to United Nations troops will likely be some discussion of the and civilian police. West Bank and Gaza issues during 
The third, drawn roughly down the talks. · 

N D women assaulted 
by Mike Brady Wednesday morning. The victim was walking in front of Sacred Heart Church when a man put a 
Two Notre Dame women stu-hand over her mouth and wrestled dents were the victims of attacks her to the ground. la,st week, but both escaped un-The girl managed to struggle harmed. Neither of the assailants free and run into the church, while has been apprehended. the attacker fled. 
The first ·attack took place last Although the attack took place on Monday night at 10:20, in front of Oct. 4, it was not reported until O'Shaugnessy Hall. Reportedly, a Tuesday. The only description of man crept up behind the girl, put the man is that he is between 6 feet one hand over her mouth, and with and 6 feet 2 inches tall. his other fondled her breast. The According to Richard Conklin, man immediately fled. Director of Information Services, 
The girl was returning to her such incidents are not common but residence hall after a class in there are isolated cases every year. O'Shaugnessy. She was unable to He says that attacks are more provide the authorities with any likely to happen during nice description of the man. The attack weather,. when people tend to go is no~ under investigation by Dean out at night. Conklin also said that Roemer's office. it is believed that the two incidents 
A second attack occurred last last week are unrelated. 
the middle of the Sinai region, .----------------------..:;.;;..~:...::..::.=~-....;.;_-----------.:..::.::..:..~=-=~;:..::_=;:..::_=------------, will mark the point to which Israel must withdraw · its troops on an interim basis with in nine months of the signing of a final agreement. Full Israeli withdrawal must take place between two and three years after the signing of the treaty. The Camp David summit pro­duced solutions to problems that American officials' felt were much more difficult, such as Israel's willingness to remove its settle­ments from the territory. The Knesset agreed to the proposal after Prime Minister Menachem Begin returned from Camp David. If the Washington talks go as planned, and the interim with­drawal takes place, Israel and Egypt are committed to establish­ing normal economic and diplo­-matic relations, opening a new era in the Middle East. But there are external problems which could arise, American officials said yesterday, beginning 
over the second portion of the Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of menl l[photo by Cate Magennis] 
The issues remaining involve 
Camp David agreements, which '-----------------------------------------------' 
Thursday, October 12, 1978
the observer 

News Briefs----~ 
1==::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::====::::::::::::::========== World 
Shroud still a mystery 
TURIN, italy [AP]-Scientific tests on !h~ origi.n of the Holy Shroud, the linen relic venerated as Jesus Chnst s bunal cloth, were close to completion yesterday, but the mystery surrounding the shroud apparently is far from a final solution. "Tests are perhaps thickening the Holy Shroud mystery," said an American expert, part of the team that has been studying the .clot~ at Turin's royal palace since Sunday. He asked not to be Identified. The team including 30 American scientists, _su~jected the. shroud. t.o photographic, elctromagnetic and radtatlon. tests ustng s?phtstl­cated equipment supplied by the U.S. National Aeron~utlcs and Space Administration in an effort to determine how the tmage of a bearded man was imprinted on the linen. 
============================= National 
Bill gets second chance 
WASHINGTON [AP]-A compromise version of the $10.2 billion energy and water development bill President Carter vetoed last week, now missing some of the major features he opposed, began its way through Congress yesterday. "The president will approve this plan. He will not vetC' it," said the measure's chief sponsor, Sen. J. Bennett Johnston Jr., 0-La., as the bill, drafted in consultation with the White House, was taken up by the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
Farber re-imprisoned 
HACKENSACK, N.J.[AP]-New York Times reporter Myron A. Farber spent yesterday observing the Jewish day of atonement and preparing to return to jail. Superior Court Judge Theodore W. Trautwein on Tuesday ordered that Farber be re-imprisoned for contempt this morning after the reporter refused again to surrender his files in the murder trial of a New Jersey doctor. Farber said he considered himself protected from having to hand over the documents by the U.S. Constitution an<t by New York and New Jersey shield laws. 
Weather 

Mostly cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of showers. Highs in the mid to upper 60s. Becoming partly cloudy and cooler tonight with lows in the mid 40s. Partly sunny and pleasant tomQrrow with highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. 
On Campus Today_............ 
9 am -5 pm print sale, sponsored by office of student activities, 
4pm 
6:45pm 
7pm 
7pm 7,9,11 pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8pm 
8 pm 
9 pm 
9-12 pm midnight 
Iafortune lobby 

seminar, "electron degradation in matter," dr. m. inokuti, conf. rm. rad. lab. founders day slide presentation, "saint mary's 
college, a tapestry," angela athletic facility seminar, global awareness seminar II -latin 
america, sponsored by aiesec and the international business committee, rm. 124 hayes-healy career workshop, "job search," exec. board rm. 
lemans hall 

film, "the paper chase," engr. aud., $1, sponsored by nd rowing club lecture, dr. eugene brzenk, east gallery, art bldg. nd/smc theatre, "lu ann hampton Iaverty oberlan­
der," o'laughlin aud. 
recital, "comic & sublime classical music," staple­ton lounge concert, neil young plus crazy horse, a.cc., $8.50 
& 7.50 

sorin pep rally, with digger phelps, george kelly, jerome heavens, & bob golic, sorin porch nazz, featuring mel wPsely, basement of Iafortune wsnd album hour, "images," by the crusaders, am 
640 . 
' 

Banner approval 
given by SG 

All students desiring to display signs on the field at the Pittsburgh game will be required to present them for approval before the game. Students must bring signs to the Student Government offices, lo­cated on the second floor of LaFortune, between 3:30 and 5 
p.m. Friday or 9:30 to 10:30 a.m. Saturday. 
A special pass will be issued to students with acceptable signs. Specific details on what type of signs will be accepted, and at what gate students will meet to take signs on the field will be given at these times. 
Skydivers 

to hold meeting 
A meeting for all students inter­ested in forming a skydiving club will be held on Monday at 6:15 pm. in the archetecture building in room 202. 
A short meeting will also be held tomorrow at 12:15 in the LaFortune ' lobby to arrange rides for this sunday's trip to Marshall Airport. 
Contact Tom McKernan at 1166 for further information. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher 
(Yay) Asst. Night Editor:Tom Beh­ney (I love it!) 
Layout Staff:Kim Convey, Bea 
Witzleben  ·  
Editorial  Layout:  Rosemary  
Mills (what's left!)  

Features Layout:Karen Caruso Sports Layout:Debbie Dahr­ling Typists:Mardi Nevin, tricia Meehan, Rosie Rodgers, Beth Willard Early Morning Typist:Lisa DiValerio Day Editor:Keith Meleragno Copy Reader:Mike Ridenour, Phil Cackley Ad layout:Matthew DeSalvo (Cap'n Trips) Photographer:Cate Magennis 
ERRATUM. 

The Observer erroneously reported yesterday that the Student Union proposal for an on-campus student run record business would be presented to the Board of Trustees, when in fact it will not. 
The Observer is published Mon­day thrvugh Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame Md Saint Mary's College. SubsCriptions may be purchased tor no per ye..­($1 0 per semester) frvm The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second ce.ss postqe paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4US6. . The Observer Is a member of the Auocleted Press. All repro­duction rights are reaerved. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

-~ 
•

insty-pr1nls• 
the wiz of the print~ biz! 
rag bond 25 -81/2 X 11 $2.55 203 N. Ma1n So Bend 289 69 7 
Jerry W~ntraub and Concerts West pre-sent 
!

JODDDVBI 
====LIVB t IICOICEBT 
CDTBB STAGE II THE BOUID 
----------==~~~~~---------------­
November 3, 1978 • SPM Notre Dame ACC 
Ticket sale starts this Monday Oct. 9th 
A.C.C. Box Office 9am to 5pm and 
Student Union Ticket Office At 9am·5pm 
tiCkEt PRICES $10.00 $7.50 $5.00 
;lmllm,r 
•'1. '/ 
I 


Exclusively on RCA Records. 
:···········~····••+f
Tonignt: : 
i Senior .Trip Raffle ! 
: Night '\('~ t + ~ ~,o'< +
+ f:QO se<' ~ 
• ,;.,o~ GO~ \~ oO
• se'. ~" .0.(\ ~' . 


l................... 

+o\ ~'(\ : Q~o
+ 
+ 
+ 
, ll'\: \O~ 
p.: ~c:, 
<oee ~ from .9-11 : 
+ 


, 
Thursday, Odober 1_2,~1_9_7_8______.th~et....-o:...bus&:leiiiEJrvL...K..leiiiEJrL..--_~3 · 
.. 
Pr-int sale exceeds last year's total 
by Mucia Kovas Staff Reporter 

This year's sale of Waskewich Gallery art reprints will easily exceed last year's totals, according to salesman John Paul Roberts. ''The response is amazing,'' Roberts said. 
Over 3oo students flipped through large books displaying 250 reprints of famous art works and at least 200 paid $3 each for the,prints yesterday, which was the third day of the week-long sale. 
The sale, located on the first floor lobby of LaFortune Student Center, features works of about 150 painters, including Van Gogh, Picasso, Andrew Wyeth and other well-known artists. 
Roberts said a number of Notre Dame students liked "the tradi­tional conservative paintings, Jike landscapes and 'The Last Supper'." Roberts, who runs the sale with co-worker Paul Reid, took in $1,800 for the prints on Monday and Tuesday, and expected to gross at least $1,000 more yester­day. 

''Last year we only made $3,200 here, by Thursday we'll pass that," Roberts stated. He said that at large state universities, three times the size of Notre Dame, he would gross $5,000 to $6,000 for W askewich Galleries, but that this week he expected to make at least $4,000. 
The New York-based galleries never expected this kind of success at Notre Dame, Roberts explained, women." But males bought 60 percent of the prints this week, he said, and "the rate at which the prints have been selling for a school with such a small enrollment is outstanding." 
The Notre Dame students are aware of the value of these prints, according to Roberts. "They know most would sell for $10 to $15, for example at the Art Institute in Chicago." The Galleries charge $3 a print. 
Roberts says the company takes its business to universities because students are transients in dorms and want inexpens_ive art to decor­ate their rooms. "They don't expect to stay, so they don't want 
St. Joe's Council for Retarded 
to hold discussion forum tonight! ~~~~:~.~~~:"c:~~~~e~=:p~= 1 
b R v Be km Y yan er r oes 

The St. J oseph County Counct"1 for the Retarded is having an 
• r • d d' · r 
m.ormatton an tscusston .orum 
tonight at Logan Center. Present at the meeting will be the state Representatives and senators from St. Joe County. The purpose ofthe 
the forum is to familiarize people with the activities of the council. Under a new federal law, all 
retarded people are entitled to a public paid-for education. The council is hoping to receive a large portion of their funding under the guidelines of the law. 
Thus, they will present their tenative plans for the 1979-1980 fiscal year to the public, and in particular to the legislators who control the allocation of funds. 
Proposed programs include a new building to house the Logan Industries. The industries employ 200 retarded people, who receive training and therapy on the job. 
The council hopes to receive 2.4 million dollars to use in addition to $900,000 already received from local sources. The total sum required for the project is 3.4 million dollars. 
The other main program involves residential housing. This program sets retarded people up in their own apartment living self sufficiently. Currently the program involves 26 people, but they would like to increase it to 409. 
Notre dame spokesman for the 

council Mike Wolohan stressed the 
• 

to invest a lot in originals," he the office of Student Activities a
because "80 percent of our cus­
flat fee for selfing their artwork at
tomers at other universities are said. "They also don't have a lot of 
need for students to go to tn~ He added: "hopefully, the legis­meeting. He said: "It would really lators will. see our co":lmit~­look good t"f students show up in m.ent and gtv.e us the fundtng, tt
tt h b tt
11

numbers demonstrating their ~· ~es~. m a muc e er
committment.'' sttuatlon. 
SU Advl·sory· board 
t f f • t t • 
mee s or Irs I me 
by Tim Sulllyan Staff Reporter 

The Student Union (SU) Advis­ory Board, created last year in the new constitution for the student government, met last night for the first time to orient themembers and determine board policies, accord­ing to Bill Roche, SU director. 
According to the Constitution for the Student Government, ''the Student Union Advisory Board shall be composed of two faculty members, one administrator, and one Student Affairs representative, selected by the SU Steering Comm­ittee. 
The Student Affairs Representa­tive is selected by the Vice-Presi­dent of Student Affairs. This board is to meet with the SU steering committee to discuss operations twice per semester in formal ses­sion." 
The faculty members are Profes­sor Ken Milani, from the depart-of Business_ Administration, and Professor Albert Lamay, from the department of Modern and Classi~ cal Languages. 
The administrator is Jim Gibbons, who works in Public 
Relations, and the Student Affairs representative is Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear. 
The purpose of the Advisory board was discussed and it was determined that the members could provide a perspective on SU activities which could enhance the efficiency of the Union, 
Roche outlined the goals the Union was trying to achieve, citin' improvement of social atmosphere, provision of entertainment, and creation of services to the student body as examples. 
Roche stated that the board, "is to give input from a viewpoint that the student" and the Union doesn't have. We're directly involved in these projects, and the board is looking at it from a different angle. They can offer valuable advice from that position which can increase the efficiency of the SU." 
The board was created at the initiative of the students with the intention that additional informa­tion was necessary for the SU steering committ~e to make effec­tive policy decisions on services and expansion. 
money." Notre Dame. The company is keeping all profits from the sale.
Wltskewich Galleries is pavin2 
• 

I 
I 

r-
w ND 
SMC 
~ THEATRE 
· 

Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
presents Preston Jones' 
Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander 
October 6,!,8,11,12,13,14 O'Langhlln AudJtorlnm, St. Mary' 8:00p.m. 
For tlcketa eall 284-4176 
~----..-.-._.._._..,__..._._._.._, 
___._.________, 
~ YOGA AND MASSAGE WORKSHOP i i ._.._..~..-~-~ i ~ The Society for Jungian-Archetypal Psychology i ~ has been fortunate in obtaining the services of i 
~ for you to enioy a learning experience. ~ r Ms. Meadow is a certified teacher and a i l ~ d a:::: II E B r
r ~esi ent .-e ow as salen Institute, ig Sur, 1
l California--the authoritative center for the • rl Human Potential Movement. She has con-r ~ 
~ l 
ducted workshops there and nationally for over i 
~ nine years. Her credentials include work in , i ~ Polarity Massage, Foot Reflexology, Deep l ~ Tissue Work, lridology, and related Body-Mind 1 ~ Disciplines. She recently served as a model for l r Baba Hari Dass's forthcoming book on Ashanga ~l 
l y ~ oga. l 
\. 1 r Workshop hours are 3 to 5:30 P.M. and 7 to 9:30 ll P.M., Sunday and Monday; October 15th and ~ l 16th, in the meeting room of Wilson Commons. r ~ Fee is $60.00, complete. Call Mary Theis l ' 272-5470 of Father Maley, 288-2636. ~ .._....._ ·-, -.... •= --·-----___.._._._.,.J 
.................... Juqqlen ··················· 
now acceptinG manuscQJpts . ~OR a SP€Cial ISSU€ 
"tales 1n ameu1can" ~1ct1on, poeiQy, essays, 'aQtwo~k ano 
phOtO(jQaphs Oeai.IOG With €XpeRI€1lC~S i 1n the ameRicas. 
oea011n€ nov€mB€Q t st 309 o'shaq OQ ]uc,ql€Q o~~1ce, W:oQtUn€ 




• J 
•. 

the observer Thursday, October 12, 1978 
In United Way drive 
Donations exceed last year 
J-Boards to distribute dulac 
• 

is that the campaign is a student
By Diane Carey drive, it's student managed, and it elicits a 70 percent participation response.'' 
McTaggart explained that this year's goal was to collect a dollar from every student, although many students contributed more money. He noted that Walsh Hall had a 100% participation rate, and Cavanaugh Hall's was close to 
100% McTaggart and Soma hope to improve next year's campaign by offering more information and en­couragement to those doing the collecting. "This year, we met with the hall vice-presidents who co-ordinated the campaigns," Soma said, "but next year we want to meet with the people who are doing the collect­ing." 
McTaggart added that often the people who have the "tough job" of doing the door-to-door collecting 
have less information that those contributing. 
McTaggart also emphasized that the educational aspect of the campaign was almost as important as collecting and distributing funds. 
''This is the premier collection conducted in every metropolitan area throughout the country," McTaggart said, "and when stud­
ents get into the  business world  
they'll  be  asked  to  contribute  
again.~  

He explained that although the campaign is nationwide, funds are collected and distributed locally. 
''There are few organizations in town where student volunteers work who are not direct re­cipients of funds collected here," McTaggart said. 
He pointed out that Notre Dame contributes to the Big Brothers and Big Sisters programs, Logan Center, and other volunteer agenc­ies in South Bend. 
0 'I 
by Mike .Shields Staff Reporter 

Confusion over thedistributing of this year's du Lac, the guide to student life at Notre Dame, has marked the inaugural year of a new 
\ 
0

jPGl PAIIUTALGUIIAIIl SUGGESTIO -%"i ~i AVCO EMBASSY PICTURES Release "'" •..,o,_,,...,,..... c""" 
·.,__,___...,,.O~~Price Sneak Preview at B:OOOnty · . -Come and See ANIMAL HOUSE Town & Country 2 · Before or After the Sneak 
•' tl ... •

...w ,
.. "' ' ~ 
.. 

system of distribution for the manual. 
This year differs from previous years because only freshmen were given editions of du Lac, according to Dean of Students james Roemer. 
•'There is no sense in printing 5000 copies for sophomores, jun­iors and :seniors if they just take them and throw them into the trash can," Roemer said. He explained that residence hall rectors and assistant rectors distributed copies of duLac to freshmen during orien­tation. 
Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo said she was aware of the new system. ·'I have encouraged J-board personnel to distribute copies of du Lac,'' Rizzo siad. She added that the hall J-board chair­men have received copies. 
Asked if all hall J-board chair­men have distributed copies, Rizzo said, "I know of three that have· and several more plan to do so." 
Campus Ministry to plan celebration 
The Office of Campus Ministry has announced the "revival of a venerable tradition''-the festive celebration of Founder's Day. 
"Founder's Day used to be a big 
event around here,'' Father Toohey 
of Campus Ministry said; "it even 
used to be a free day. We want to 
try to recapture some of the spirit 
behind those celebrative remem­
brances of Fr. Sorin, who founded 
Notre Dame in 1842." · 
To mark the occasion this year, 
Campus Ministry is sponsoring a 
special liturgy, to be celebrated in 
Sacred Heart Churh at 5 p.m. 
Friday. 
Fr. James Burtchaell will be the homilist; and the Notre Dame Glee Club will provide special music. All members of the Notre Dame community are cordially invited. 
12-6 sun 255-2824 
Great Ideas 

to Dress up Your Room 
Bean Bags $13.50 
Murals 539.95 Posters $1.25, $7.50 Backgammon & Chess Sets ave 10% With Student I 
Lewis Hall J-board Chairman Sara Strattan was unaware of the 
new procedure of distribution. "If J-board chairmen were supposed to pick them up, I wasn't contacted," Strattan said. "They should be here at the beginning of theyear," she added, but to her knowledge "not even the freshmen have received them.'' 
''Everyone should have one, because without one, you can break the rules without knowing it," she said. 
St. Ed's Hall J-Board Chairman Mike McMullin found "a lot here at the beginning of the year," he said. "There was a pile for freshmen and I assumed there were enough for everyone." 
J -board Chairmen John Dunbar of Stanford and Kristin Quann of Breen-Phillips said they let upper­classmen pick up copies of duLac individually. 
Fisher J-board Chairman Bart Nagy distributed copies of the 48-page manual earlier this month. 
•' Because it was new and because Jayne Rizzo asked that everyone get one, I thought I should do it," Nagy said. 
Copies of du Lac are still available in the offices of Student 
Government  or  from  Roemer's  
ofifice.  •  
•  

75 years ago 

at Saint Mary's 
75 years ago today ••• 
By amendment of the Charter, in March of 1903, the name of the Academy was changed to St. Mary's College. In that same year, Collegiate Hall (now Holy Cros.s Hall) was dedicated. 
Campbell lectures on Mideast 
by Gregory Solman 

"Due to this being Yom Kippur, there might be some people absent today who wouldn't normally be," said John C. Campbell, addressing a crowd of over 100 at the Library Auditorium yesterday, "But we should keep in mind that in 1973, even the highest of high holy days could not stop war in the Mideast.'' 
Campbell, one of the world•s leading authorities on the Mideast, made his remarks to open the second part of his lecture series entitled ''The Great Powers and the Middle East.'' 
The lecture series, sponsored by the Institute for International Studies, ends today when Camp­bell will discuss the late '60s and early 70's period in the Mideast, capping his three part presentation with the events that led to the Yom Kippur War of 1973. 
Yesterday, however, Campbell discussed the early 1960's and the subsequent events that led-Jto the six-Day War. 
The presentation focused on ''Nasser and Dayan,'' marking a switch from his previous talk, which viewed the Mideast from the 
United  States  and  Soviet  Union  
perspective.  
''Although  both  the  United  
States  and  Soviet  Union  were  

involved in the Mideast poli­tically,'' explained Campbell, di­rector of studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, "Neither of the countries had a clear strategy or dynamic person associated with that strategy.'' 
Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan was seen as being ''differ­ent, in that he represented, better than the others, the second gener­ation of Israel." He was unlike David Gurion, Israel's first pre­mier, Campbell said. 
''He was somewhat a maverick, and individual operator, andnot not well liked by other political personalities," commented Camp­bell. 
Former Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser was charac­terized by Campbell as beinP "colorful," but -in contrast to 0 Dayan, was characterized by 
Former• Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser was charac­terized by Campbell as being "colorful," but in contrast to Dayan as ''playing the role that one might expect.'' 
Campbell focused on Nasser and Dayan because, . as he put it, "When we look closely at the situation, and at the roles of Egypt and Israel, one can see compara­tively that the roles of the great powers is less than one might expect it to be. " 
In contrast to the Soviet's in­fluence in the Mideast, openly courting the Arab's . favor, the United States was "still attempting to keep a foot in both doors,'' said Campbell. 
Campbel credited the Kennedy Administration for seeing that "the Nasser forces couldn't be wished away or conquered militarily,'' and that it would have to "define a better and more friendly relation­ship.'.' 
Meanwhile,· said Campbell, 

· Nikita Khrushchev was "attempt­ing to play a world role like Tito--attempting to be a leader of a world movement," and that Khrushchev's ·policies "tended to create the old nightmare of new nations falling into the hands of the Soviets.'' ''The Soviets never could solve the problem of how much they should support communists," -Campbell later said, "They were not always quite comfortable with the bourgeois nationalist leaders; and not even Nasser in certain respects.'' Campbell then concluded the second part of his presentation by giving his analysis of the events leading to the 1967 six-Day War that occured when United Nations forces withdrew from the are at the demand of Nasser, Egyptian forces rapidly occupied the Gaza Strip, and an Egyptian "blockage" of the Gulf of Aqaba hindered Israeli shipping. . "The Soviet Union had some­thing to do with the origins of the way, but they didn't want it," 
remarked Campbell, "Nobody wanted it.'' 
It was Campbell's feeling that both Egypt and the Soviet Union were "trying to show political strength,'' and that neither country expected their actions to be trans­lated into military force. 
"Naser made a move that I feel he thought was basically political," stressed Campbell, "not as a prelude to war.'' 
Campbell will conclude his lec­tures series today at 4 p.m. and will hold a question and answer period, also in the Library Auditorium, at 8 
p.m. tonight. 

JOHN C· CAMPBELL 
• 

Thursday, October 12, 1978 the observer 
Need a Ride For Break? 
Dial OBUD For the Student Union Ombudsmar Rider Service 
We can Help Find Rides or Riders 
Have Room in Your Car 
,.: ··-: 

at Break?_.. 
. -;. 
.·.'\, 
.. 

11t)rnf?£t)Jnlll~ Wet?t••• 
••• At lilt? ~GIZ~ '. lllur§ciCll ~~I W~§f?l:; (<}:-1~) (13()1:l [)l'l<lll ~ f)fflt?f§) frlciCll (~aJ()-JJJ) f()ll~ ACJulllr:() 13111 fl()rl<lll() Jullc1 J)f?rfl"
SctturciCll 
4()~(1()£1< J<1.z.z (()rnf)() 
wltli _~Ut?§t§ Jc1lllt? ~f?'t'()rcl (CJ-1ctaJ()) ~ ~()££() ()(?()(c)§§€' ......... flit? JcJt:uzzl13r()tlit?l§ 1ClaJ()-11l 
Plant Sal~ Ill 
Stu0€nt Unton S€RVIC€S COmm. IS
Steve Martin lottery Sunday SponSORinG anotheR Cjne.at Plant Sal€ at BaRGain Pn•ce Pn•ces 
A lottery for the Steve Martin performance will be held at 6 p.m. 
Sunbay Oct. 15, 1978
Sunday in Stepan Center. A six ticket limit per person has been set due to an expected heavy demand. Foreigner Lottery will be held on 
• 1:30 to 3:30 
Tuesday at 6 p.m. in LaFortune. There is a 10 ticket limit for that concert. Tickets will be on sale 
Stub€Tlt Unton Ofrtc€S 
after the lottery. 


Pizza 
and other 

Good rh:ffigs 
• 

CORNER OF GRV~.ROAD ~ CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM fHE!NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
,J 

277-5300 
Noble Roman~s 

tleveland 
N 

31 




OPEN 11-11 MONDAY-THURSDAY 11-1 AM FRIDAY & SATURDAY 12-11 SUNDA¥ 
----------------------1r-------------------~-~
I $1.00 OFF !1.00 OFF 1$1.500FF $1.500FFI I ON ANY LARGE I ON ANY SIZE II DEEP DISH SI~ILIAN PIZZA! I MASTERPIZZA! I 
I ONE COUPON PER ORDER Expires 11/1/78 I ONE COUPON PER ORDER Expires 11/l/78 I 
1.----------------------..1.--------------------~~-fitif;.ll 
----. ­
----'-------'-----------·-------·-··--·~·­
..• 
.. 
• 

commentary==========jose anadon 
International Colloquiam of Hispanists 
On October 16 and 17, an international colloquium entitled "The Defense of the Latin American Indian Cultures, and its Present Projections'' (La Defensa del Indio Latinoamericano y sus Proyeccio!les Prsentes) has been organized by the Department of Modern and Classtcal Languages , with the cooperation of the .Center for C!vil Ri.ghts, a~d the Latin American Center. The papers wtll be read etther ·~ Engltsh or Spanish, and they will consider aspects fro",l the past and present: ~he meetings will all be held in Rooms 210-214 tn the Center for Contmumg Education. 
In contemporary Hispanoamerican society, many cultural elements .from the Indians survive. These are mixed with other traditions which arrived after the Conquest. The cultural fusion was possible due to the assimilation capability of the Indians, and because some Spanish missionaries and authorities defended the rights of the conquered. From 1510 onward, due to the abuses of the conquistadores, discussions were initiated on the nature and rights of the Indian. Almost immediately, books were written and laws promulgated on the ri~hts of possession, the circumstan~es for just wars, etc. That defense caused in Spain, artd then throughout Etrrope as a whole, profound theoretical changes, especially in the field of jurisprudence. In the New World, it determined changes in the social structure. 
The pioneer of this movement was theDominican friar Bartolome de Las Casas, although it was friar Francisco de Vitoria who achieved the lucid formulation that intluenced Hugo Grotius in the creation of International Law. Throughout the three centuries of the Colonial Period, not only missionaries, but also soldiers and public officials participated in this task. Of course, they encountered strong antagonisms on ideological as well as practical grounds. In present times, the new humanism and the scientific interest in studying and exploring the past, are related to this old movement. 
The interdisciplinary character of the colloquium will provide a wider vision of the central topic. The presentations will consider, in general, and in different wayss •.the following themes: clash and fusion of e>ultures (cultural crossings); polemics on the moral right underlying the Conquest and the rights of the conquered; late survival of Indian cultures (18th and 19th centuries); poetic treatment of the Inca civilization by Spanish writers; images of the Indians during the 18th century, before the lndependance; and relevance to 20th century of the confli~t between the Indian and dominant cultures of Latin America. The participants--anthro­pologists, historians, philologists, literary .critics--are distinguished researchers and professors from the United States and abroad, who have extensive experience in the subject and enjoy international prestige. 
There will be four sessions. During the first, on Monday, October 16, from 9 a.m.. to 12 noon, the period of the Conquest will be discussed. The speakers will be Dr. Woodrow Borah, Shepard Professor of History, University of California at Berkeley ("Spanish Official Perception of Indian Legal Needs: New Spain 1519-1593. Human Rights in the 16th Century"); Juan Bautista Avalle-Arce, W.R. Kenan, Professor of 
.. Spanish, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (''Oviedo ante los indios"); and Charles Gibson, University of Michigan .(''Moriscos and Indians"). The second session, on Monday evening, from 8:00-10:00 p.m., is devoted to Peru. The speakers will be Dr. Luis Monguio, Professor Emeritus, University of California at Berkeley ("The Peruvian Enlightenment and the Indian"); Dr. Guillermo Lohmann Villena; President of the Peruvian Academy of History, from Lima, Peru (''Los derechos humanos en el Peru"); Dr. John H. Rowe, University of California at Berkeley ("Inca Nationalism in the Colonial Period; the Defense of the Indian by Indian leaders in Peru"); and Dr. Patricia J. Lyon. Berkeley ("Indian Aggression or White Regression on the Paucartambo Frontier"). The third session will be dedicated to Mexico and Mesoamerica. ·It will be held on Tuesday, October 17, from 9:00a.m. to 12 noon. The speakers will be Dr. Ernesto Mejia Sanchez, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico ("Francisco Sanchez el primer lascasiano de Nicaragua. Siglo XVI"); Dr. Arnold Chapman. Uni\fersity of California at Berk~ley ("William Cullen Bryant, Unintentional Contributor to Literary lndian­ismo"); Ernesto de Ia Torre, Universidad ~acional Autonoma de Mexico ("Los derechos del indio en su acultur.acion en Mexico"); and Dr. J .L. Martinez, Director of Fondo de Cultura Economica ("La actitud franciscana de fray Jeronimo de Mendieta"). The fourth session, from 2:00p.m. to 4:00p.m. will emphasize literary topics related to Chile. The speakers will be Dr. Jose Durand, University of California at Berkeley ("La idealizacion del suplicio de Caupolican en Ercilla"); Cedomil Goic, University of Michigan ("Galvarino lascasista"); and Mario Ferreccio Podesta, University of Chile(' 'lndianismo, sic et non. Cartas de los obispos at rey"). The vitality of the central theme of the colloquium, which is considered part of the modern current of indigenismo, will be corroborated through these conferences. 
opinion=::;;=====:;:::::===========adri trigiani
Founder's Day 
Saint Mary's College is 135 years old. There are many ways to approach the topic of Founder's Day, but I don't want to sound like an almanac or a sugas coated yearbook poem. Rather, I'd like to tell you how I feel about Saint Mary's and why I am spending four years of my life here. 
The first impression I had of the college was the cigar smoking, smiling face of Dr. Duggan in my sisters yearbook. Through experience, I have come to realize that the administration is concerned, knowledgeable, and warm; most importantly, they are there. Dr. Duggan, Dean Rice, Mary, Dr. Hickey-their faces are as familiar as the hall director's or that of Captain Kovatch. The faculty is unbeatable; they work for you and with you, with such sparkling personalities as Dr. Bambeneck or Mr. Zink. 
The most important reason I am here is the people. The women here are extremely diverse and caring individuals. The friends I have made at Saint Mary's are irreplaceable. They give until there is nothing left; they give of their time, friendship and love. There is no stereotypical Saint Mary's woman-but there is a typical feeling here. It is a feeling of achievement. Whether it is tutoring kids in South Bend or baking cookies. the women go about it wiht a sense of determination and guts. It is a chaJlenge i:o study with them, to shoot basketball with them aad to grow with them. 
Sure, problems arise and I feel like heading for the Alleutians, but instead I can 'lead for the chapel, or go next door or even wake up Father Krause ~t t~~e a.m. It is the best place I could ever hope to be. I know because the-~uple around me prove it everyday in their actions and concern. We ;u-e small in size, but the quality and polish shine through in all atelo$ 
I did not ~IU1t ~eon State, Stanford or East Stroudsburg State College. I wanted some-Mung better than anything else. And, to be really honest, I know l have f'OtHtd it. Even after one hundred and thirty five years, it is an honor to attend the number one Catholic woman's colleae in the country. I 
•. could not be happier. 

A special community 
Dear Editor: The tragic death of my sister, Judy, on September 30,1978 was a shocking experience. Death had always been something which affected other people--never before had death come so close to me. Death usually comes ath the fulfil­lment of life, at a ripe old age. How can I accept the sudden death of my young, close sister? Although no one can formulate a clear-cut answer to this question, many reasons why can be present­ed. Just as each person is given certain talents, so is each person allott~d a certain amount of time. The purpose of ti..me is to give person allotted a certain amount of time. The purpose of time is to give people a chance to fulfill their goals and ambitions. People, even if allotted only a brief period of time, can fulfill themselves through their short lives. It is not how much time one is granted that counts; rather, it is how one uses his available time. Another reason as to why I should accept my sister's death came to me through her own 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

saying. She believed that people In one sense, the United Way "bud on earth to blossom in Campaign certainly has ended heaven." A person's potential is succesfully. But in another sense, fully realized only through death. it has only just begun, and its potential for success lies totally
In addition, Christ, through his with you. During the past week,preaching, told of many paradoxes every student on campus has beenin life. Instead of looking upon the contacted on behalf of the Uniteddeath of my sister as a loss, it can Way. Surely, some kind ofbe viewed as a gain--a link to awareness has been stirred withineternal life. Also, through this your consciousness. At the sameunfortunate occurrence, I could time we extend vou our warmestemerge a much better person. 
thanks, we offer· you our sincereIn conclusion, the support of the hope that you cherish the aware­Saint Mary's-Notre Dame com­ness of those less fortunate thanmunity has made this acceptance of yourselves, and challenge you toGod's will much easier. The respond to that awareness in yourcommunity's kindness and sincere own unique way. 
concern have been a tower of Once again, thank you Notrestrength for me and my family. 
Dame. May this end be aBefore I came to Notre Dame, I beginning.·
thought it to be a well-rounded community. As a result of the warm sympathetic response of the 
Tom Soma (Chairman) Saint Mary's-Notre Dame com­Br. Joe McTaggart( Advisor) 

munity, I believe it to be more than a well-rounded community--a con­cerned special community, of which my sister had the privilege of 
being a part. Please apologize 
Dear Editor:Bob Cerabona 
The Scholastic staff graciously apologized for late deliveries of theThank you, Scholastic in some halls two weeks ago. Perhaps they would now Notre Dame consider apolo~izin~ for publishin~ my essay'·Autumn Wonderland'' Dear Editor: after editing the very life ari 
In one sense, this year's United substance out of it. I do not write Way Campaign at Notre Dame has essays such as the one Scholastic come to its end. The totals are in: (October 6, 1978) published in my over $4,700.00 contributed by 70% name. It is an injustice to me for of the student body. Both figures Scholastic to make it appear that I are the highest ever---we commend do. you, Notre Dame. Joseph W. Evans 
Many individuals and groups who contributed to the success of the campaign merit special thanks. To the people who posed for our picture, Student Government, the Zhivago:Nyet!
·Ombudsman, the Observer, the HPC, the Hall Vice-Presidents, Dear Editor: section leaders, and all the other This letter is to express my utter collectors, know that your efforts disgust for having been denied the 
enabled the drive to be the success opportunity to see a classic film this that it was. To Walsh Hall, weekend. I am referring to the congratulations for achieving 100% Oktoberfest showing of Dr. participation. To Michelle Zhlvago at Carroll Hall, SMC, on Renaldo, publicity chairman, and Saturday, October 7. Although I Chris Digan. assistant chairman, arrived early, I was among a crowd 
your time and dedication has been of nearly 75-100 people whom were truly appreciated--best of luck denied admission because the next year. And to each and every showing was sold out. person who donated to the cam­J Who was the 
brilliant plannerraign, on l ehalf of all those who who decided that two showings for wil: benefi • from your sacrifice, a student population of nearly 9000 th .mk you 1ery much. 

undergrads (SMC-ND) could be 
f7 . .., 
*The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind..46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opmion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying oprmons on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorral Editor 
Phil Cackley Cor-. Editor jean Powley· St. Mary's Edrtor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production ManagerJohn Tucker Business ManagerBob Rudy Advertising Manager 
Thursd~y, October 12, 1978 

POLICY 
The State of Mfairs
The Observer encourages com­
BOXQ 
ments from its readers. Letters 
satisfactory with an auditorium that seats 300 humans per show? It does not require divine revelation to realize that a show like Dr. Zblvago will attract more than 600 persons. 
Why is it so difficult for those 
• persons who run the films at SMC not to learn from their neighbors at NO? On two consecutive evenings another classic, aockwork Orange, played to phenominal audiences at the Engineering Auditorium. The significant difference is that shows were at 7:00, 9:00, and 12 midnight on two nights. This means that six shows and a larger audience. Surely, we celluloid freaks are willing to view films at a later hour. Do the SMC poopsies fear we'll turn intopumpkins after the be­witching hour? The minimum allowance should be two showings per night. The icy difference of the pseudo­dilettante who posed as an usher, informing me that "absolutey no more shows will be offered,'' was a stroke of social repugnance that will certainly affect my choice of location for future entertainment the next time my date and I decide to share an uneventful and disap­pointing night out, I'll be sure to check places other than SMC. I've tasted their dinner and came away with indigestion. Dr. Zhlvago should have been available more than it was. It is not strictly sour grapes on my part, but the feeling that more responsible planning for social events should be made. The Thursday showing is impossible for those of us whose studies forbid weekday socializing. One weekend showing was not enough and I hope these considera­tions will be regarded when other important films are featured at SMC. 
Christopher A. Stewart 

No slur intended 
Dear Editor: 
I ask the courtesy of your columns to respond to Samir Sayegh's defamation of Israel and the Jewish people in your issue of October 10. I don't know whether it was he or the Observer who captioned his article ''Eye To Eye. Racism To Racism,'' but someone should inform you that this an ancient slur against the Old Testa­ment and an echo of the infamous Communist-PLO U.N. resolution condemning Zionism as "racist." 
It is unspeakably vicious and cruel to compare the Nazi destruct­ion of six million Jews to the wrongs suffered by th~ Palestinians --wrongs committed not least by their fellow Arabs. In regard to the long long history of the Jewish people in their ancient homeland, Mr. Sayegh totally ig­nores the continuous presence of Jewish communities in Palestine over the centuries. He does say that the very moment the state of Israel was established, by inter­national sanction at a United Nations in 1948 not yet controlled by Communists and oil-rich demagogues, the Arab states com­bined to attack and destroy the state and an the Jews living in it. And what, in the name of the Constitution of the United States and its separation of state and church, does Mr. Sayegh mean by calling the "United States a Christian state? " 
Mr. Sadat has just said that 
Syria's role in Lebanon (where it Is 
trying to destroy the Christian 
community) is "murder for the 
sake of murder." The PW, the 
only official leader of the 
Palestinians, has made it clear. in 
murder after murder, that it wants 
nothing of the Jews but their 
destruction. They assiduously 
spread Nazi propaganda against 
the Jews everywhere in the West, 
abetted by that great "Christian" 
country, Soviet Russia. I earnestly 
hope that your readers will not 
accept Mr. Sayegh's distortions of 
....,.,~,.,,#f'IJrl....-..r.r.~WWII"•Y"~*~'_,.,_,.,••,.,~..,..:8WI-"" 
history without looking into the tragic history of both Jew and Arab in what is a Holy Land to them both as well as to Christianity. 
Alfred Kazin 

Editor's Note: As stated in the 
purpose at the top lefthand column 
of page 4, Student Government 
funded and produced the center­
fold on Third World Awareness. 
The Observer was used as the best 
means to distribute the featwe to 
the ND-SMC community. 
Band gives boost 
Dear Editor: 
The players and the coaches of 
the N.D. baseball team would like 
to publicly thank the members of 
the band for the emotional boost 
they gave us during a game we 
played on Saturday, Sept. 30th. 
The morning of the Purdue 
football game we were playing a 
ballgame against Bradley when the 
band marched by for pre-game 
practice on Cartier field. While 
walking back after their practice 
the entire band stopped alongside 
our field and blasted out the fightt 
song, bl~wing the Bradley players 
right out oftheir dugout! The band 
stood there for the entire inning in 
the drizzling rain cheering wildly 
after every pitch. 
The psych job you gave us was unbelievable, not to mention what you did to our oppostions morale. We went on to score 4 more runs the next inning before Bradely got a lucky break and the game was called on account of rain. 'The spontaneous enthusiasm and spirit the band showed was greatly appreciated by our team and will be remembered for a long time. 
Thanks again -you were great. 
N.D. Baseball team 
Moneyeaters 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter to express my extreme dissatisfaction with the vending machines dispersed throughout this university. I am tired of being ripped off by those ?&#*X! m,achines. I consistenly lose my money in them. 
I realize that I can recieve a refund for my lost quarters, but I rarely call to obtain one. The rason for this is that after having called the vending company a couple of times, I have found myself too embarrassed to admit that I allowed myself to be suckered again by one of their contraptions. Besides, when I put my money into the machine, what I want is . something to eat--not a refund. 
While there are some depend­able machines· on campus, many are not. A good example of an undependable machine is the one in Fisher Hall. When a person puts his money into this particular machine, he has approximately a thirty percent chance of receiving his desired snack. The machine will usually respond in one of four ways. They are: the machine will accept the coin and then give no response when the button is pushed; the machine will make a noise as if it is going to allow the item to fall towards the bottom of the machine only to be trapped by the chute; the machine wiH allow the item to fall to the compartment where the purchaser receives his snack. The last possibility listed rarely occurs. 
The frustrations one incurs from these thieving machines is totally unnecessary. Vending machines should be properly maintained. A purchaser should be able to put his money into a machine confident that he will receive for it the item he requests. An occasional prob­
may be mailed to P.O. Box Q, 
Notre Dame, In. 46556; or left at 
the Observer office in the third 
floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
AU letters submitted for pubUcat­
lon must be typed and must indued 
the name, address and phone 
number of the author. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit 
all submissions for grammatical 
errors, length, and libelous or 
slanderous statements. Names 
cannot  be  withheld  unless  suf­ 
ficient  reason  is  presented  for  
doing so.  

lem with a machine is to be expected, but the consistent mal­functions of Notre Dame vending machines are unreasonable. I wish that the university would either keep these machines in good repair or get rid of them altogether. 
Brian Erard 

Students equal victims 
Dear Editor: 
Imagine coming home, opening your door, and, in a single instant, realizing that everything is gone. Robbery is a horrible experience, and being a recent victim, I would like to remind the students that they are vulnerable. If thieves want something badly enough, they wiJI get it, but we still must protect ourselves as much as possible. 
A few things I've learned: Never leave a house or a room unlocked, even for just a few minutes. When you do leave, take the phone off the hook, lock all the windows, and pun the shades. If you will be coming home after dark, turn on a few lights, and alternate these from night to night. If you have a stero, leave it playing softly while you are away, giving· •the iHusion that someone is home; but remember that any time that you turn it up loud, it becomes an invitation to theft. Students in houses off campus should nails boards into window frames so that windows can only be partially raised. A good dead-bolt in every door is also necessary. 
Burglars like to case out a prospective "hit" first, so if you see any strangers walking the halls or attending parties, approach and question them. If you notice anyone watching you lock up as you leave, confront him. 
Precautions like these may seem a bit paranoid, but speaking from experience, they are worth the time and effort. You could lose it all in a matter of minutes. 
Rick Lane 

Certainly no question remains concerning the present state of affairs in Cambodia. Anyone with the least ambition could gain enough information to piece together a somewhat accurate picture of the situation. One need only pick up a recent 1lme or Newsweek to accomplish this. Of course it has taken quite awhile for tis picture to take shape; in fact, more than three years. This is probably due to the fact that the sole source of information has come from refugees. It is also due to the lack of sensationalism which accompanies more noteworthy horror stories such as Idi Amin's Uganda or Gereral Pinochet's Chile (complete with subtle hints 
of U.S. Imperialism). 
If the story of Cambodia (now officially Kampuchea) lacks the essentials for stimulating public interest, it certainly does not lack the statistics for warranting grave concern. It is a story depicting terror and mass murder. The death toll is estimated to be as high as 2 million in a country whose popula­tion is 7 million. When Phnom Penh was "liberated" on April 17, 1975, 3 million inhabitants were told to leave for the countryside 
within hours of the takeover. 
Hospitals were emptied and hun­dreds of thousands were herded on the roads leading out of the capital city. According to 1the estimate of Assistant Secretary of State Richard C. Holbrooke, there were several who died of malnutrition or disease for every person executed. Yet Cambodia has refused any offer of me.dical help from other 
nations. 
The day-to-day life is very grim. Peasants labor all day long building dams, canals, and other projects. They are watched by Khmer Rouge guards, clad in black, with rifles at the ready. Nevertheless, more than 150,000 have managed to escape. Not ;til are so lucky. According to refugees interviewed by Stephane Groueff last year, there are two meals given each day consisting of a cup of rice and soup. Many die of hunger. There is no currency in Cambodia, no shops or stores, no medicince, not even homes ·but makeshift huts. The refugees witnessed a complete overhaul of the previous order. 
It would be all well and good to explain Cambodia away as a simple example of human barbarity, yet this would obscure the essence of what is occurring there. If we search hard enough, we can find in the Cambodian Revolution, the will to eradicate every vestige of the former way of life. This will is driven by the motive that the former way was base and corrupt and must be eliminated under all circumstances. According to refu­gees, soon after the takeover, students and teachers began to disappear. Even those who had opposed the former government and were known to be left wing disappeared. Books, museums, anything that was felt to contamin-. ate the culture, was ruthlessly destroyed. Evidently there is a very strong desire to wipe the slate clean. Anyone with any education or fundamental knowledge of the old way threatens the delicate new system and so, must be eliminated. 
There are similarities between the Cambodian Regime and other regimes throughout history. Nazi Germany and Stalinist Russia exer­cised principles of totalitarianism which are present in Cambodia today. Both of these societies turned to inhumanity to justify and preserve their own legitimacy. Yet neither undertook a mission to totally tum the society upside down, destroying all existing insti­tutions and uprooting the lives of every single individual. Many intellectuals in our society have found this to be interesting. They view Cambodia as a kind of delicate experiment in which the state is wiped clean, and seeds are planted which will bloom into the ideal society. Two million eggs are broken to make the perfect omlet. 
For the average American though, the tragedy of Cambodia is something very far away both physically and mentally. President Carter has claimed that the Repub­lic of Cambodia is the worst offender of human rights in the world. Yet this is just objective truth (somebody has to be the worst). As long as we continue to live a fairly decent way of life we won't bother to concern ourselves with obscure little countries that do not affect us. We can't understand that ultimately Cambodia will have an effect on all humanity. 
Finally, when thinking about Cambodia, one cannot help but remember the vows we made over thirty years ago when we discov­ered the awful nightmare of the holocaust in Nazi Germany. We vowed then we could never let such a disaster happen again. It would seem that we have forgotten this vow. For while we hear vigorous protests against corrupt nations, motivated by many reasons, not all of which are humanitarian, we seem to have ignored the brutal daily life which so many Cam­bodians must endure. It is sad indeed that Cambodia seems to be forgotten by many, for like the holocaust, it may soon be on our consciences for a long time. 
art buchwald====:::::::::====================· 
When Not to Call the Doctor 
WASHINGTON --Because medical costs are rising so fast, more and more people are diagnosing their own illnesses or, worse still, those of their friends. The government would do well to make a study of how these nonprofessional diagnoses are affecting the nation's health picture. 
The other day I had a cold. It was just like the ones you see on television. I was sneezing, cough­ing and looking mournfully at my wife. I called my secretary at the office and said I wouldn't be in because I felt lousy. 
"You must have one of those 'eight hour things' that's going all around town," she said. "You'll feel perfectly well tomorrow." 
Eight hours seemed to be a reasonable time to have a cold, and I was looking forward to staying in bed, particularly since the Yankees and Red Sox were playing a crucial game . to get in the . American League playoffs. 
My sister called, and I told her I had one of those "Eight-hour things that's been going all -around.'' 
"Are you sure it's only an 'eight-hour thing'?" sne asked."It could be the '24-nour bug' for sure. 
Drink lots of fluids and take 
,~~=-·-----..-..----.-~---~ 
aspirin, and you'll be able to shake it off." 
I really hadn't counted on stay­ing in bed for 24 hours, but it's stupid to fight a bug. 
My other sister called up 10 minutes later. "Edith says you've got a '24-hour bug.' " ­
"I don't know if it's a bug or just a cold." "Is your nose red from blowing it?" "Yeah, sure it is, Why do you ask?" 
"Then you don't have a '24-hour bug.' You have a'48-hour virus.' " 
''My secretary said all I had was an 'eight-hour thing.' How come you moved it up to 48 hours?" 
:'The 'eight-hour thing' is entirely different. You feel funny· but your nose doesn't get red when you blow it. The •24-hour bug' has all the symptoms of the 'eight-hour one,' except that you cough a lot. The ·48-hour virus' makes you sneeze, cough and perspire while you're sleeping. You have to stay in bed for two days." 
••But I can't stay in bed for two days!" 
..Loot," my sister said, "If you don't want medical advice, doa't ask m~..:• _____ ...... -,., ___ _ 
I think I might have been all right except that my secretary told Healy I was home with the flu. 
He called, of course. "I feel for you," he said. "You won't be able 
..

to shake it for two weeks. If it were a winter cold I'd say you'd be better in five, maybe six days. But you have an October cold. It's almost impossible to get rid of. You hear my voice? It's been like this since August." 
"But suppose my cold goes away in 24 hours?" • 
"That's when it can become the most dangerous. You think it's gone away and then a week later you wake up and it's back with bengeance. I'd rather have a two-week bout with a chest cold than a '24-hour bug' or a '48-hour virus' or a two-week bout with the flu or a simple cold. I'm waiting on another opinion right now.'' 
"From whom?" 
"The druggist. He says there's a lot of it going around.'' ..What's going around?" ..You name it, and he says he's 
never seen so much of it going around.'' 

-------~-~~-------------------------.... .. •
• 


.. 

Sa.nt lllalzy's CoUE(j€ IS C€1.eBQatJnq Its t3;th annJV~. Ule school has evolvE catholic women's coll€G€S 1n the countny. ~ the capasle leab€Rsh1p o~ the SlsteQs o~ the Satnt tnaQy's ~chives, compliments o~ o~ Sa1nt tnaQy's (:ounoon's Oay. take a tQIP sac 




, ' ' ' 
'· 
~·· 
t·. 
One of the many former and fashionable required uniforms. 

•;
,,. 
' 

~ ~rom a school fOR PIOn€€R 1n01ans anO ORphans to On€ of the most QESpect€0 
'

;aJnt TllaJzy s has suuvtv€0 anO (frown unOOR the holy CRoss. these photos ,fRom th€ alumnae Of~IC€,~e REPRint€{) In honoR 
,.... 

;k tO SOffi€ ~li€R scenes Of the Coll€(j€'s hlstO~y. 

. . 
....... Dedicated in April 1855, this building was the first erected structure on the present campus. It was a combination of a main residence building from the original Bertrand, Michigan campus site and a Mishawaka hotel. It is no longer in existence. 
A scene froin the 1945 commencement exercises. 


Sister Madel eva, C.S.C., past president of Saint Mary's and nationally known poet, was one of the sisters whose influences helped form the college's character. 

• 

ebtt€0 BY kaQen ~uso .. 

sion. subversive," said Lane, "he
the assassination of Dr. Martin 
wanted King stopped."
According to Lane, the FBILuther King. 
"went to tremendous lengths" to King was kept on 24-hour sur­
He also claimed to have "spec­
..••••••••••••••••••e•• 
was conceal the real killers and led Ray veilance until just before he was
tacular evidence" that Ray 
shot.
: Kenneth Utz : all over North America until he
framed by the FBI and that "in a 
• 
arrived at his final destination in• Representing e month" he will prove it. Then, "mysteriously....the sur­
Memphis on April 4, 1968. 
veilance was lifted." At the same time, the officers in the six patrol
• 
cars in the area of the Lorraine Hotel (the place where King was 
staying)"had to go to the bath­room."

• 
Lane stated that the police and

Trans ort Inc. ! 
the FBI agents were pulled out of the area in order to allow the real killers to escape.
1 Green Bay, : 
The only eyewitness to the real killer, claims Lane, is Grace
• Will Give a Presentation on the Transportation e 
Walden, the owner of the boarding­house where the bullets were fired from. She described the killer as
! !­Industry and the Oppurrtunities Therein. 
''about five feet four inches'' and in his 50s or 60s. At that time, Ray was in his 30's and close to six feet
~ All Interested Students are Welcome : 
tall.
. "The FBI tried to get her (Walden) to say that she saw Ray
: -7pm Tonight : 
• 
come out of the bathroom where the shot was fired," said Lane. Walden wouldn't, however, even though there was a $100,000 re­ward for information leading to the
• Room 120 Hayes Healy e 
capture of King's killer. 
As a result, Lane said, the FBI 

had her committed to an insane asylum, after obtaining a psycholo­gist's diagnosis that she was suicidal. Walden remained in that hospital for 10 years until Lance succeeded in helping her escape to Los Angeles, where she now lives with Lane and his family. Lane de~ribed Hoover as "a monster....who has violated every law set up by Congress to regulate the FBI." He said that the naming of the main FBI buildings in Washington "was an insult to very decent person in America." Lance stated that the confession which is attributed to Ray "was the result of eight months in a tiny jail cell with constant 24-hour observa­tion and bright lights shining on him. This was brainwashing,'' said Lane, "who says there aren't political prisoners in America?'' he added. 
Seminar to be held tonight 
The panel will then be availableIn conjunction with the Develop­sented in the films: "Battle of for general questioning by theing World Film Festival, AIESEC Chile," and "State of Siege." 
audience. The first seminar of theand the International Business A panel made up of professor­considered a
Committee present Global Aware­experts, students, and inter­series was success 
and brought about an awareness ofness Seminarii--Latin America. nationals from the areas concerned some of the problems faced by theTonight at 7 in Room 124 Hayes­will begin the discussion by pre-· developing nations of Africa. ThisHealy, the discussions will center senting their insights and opinions second seminar hopes to follow this
on the content and realities pre-on the film"­
lead. 

Collector'_s Night Thursday Night 
I 
I

Any $10.00 album or tape purchase with 
I

this coupon. Limit 1. Now thru Oct. 31. 
I

Not good on cut-outs, Imports or other sale 
Start Your collection ' 
Items. 

of Foreign Bottles Now
• 

.... ~~rmany, Norway , Japan, Ireland, ·
River CIIJ Records 
South Bend's wgest record and tape sel«don and concert No~ket headquarters! West 
Italy Netherlands etc. 1~11 Heinekens $1.0 
50970 U.S. 31 N. 4626 Western Ave. 
(1 mile south of the Stateline) (Belleville Plaza) 
277-4242 287-7272 
open 10 to 10, 7 days a week 12-9 Mon-Fri, 10-8 Sat. 
Friday Happy Hour 3-6 
L------------------E~~~~-----­
' 

MARK LANE 

--.------------­
Tonight at Louie's Olympia & Bud OnTap 
• 

2 Glasses for $1.00 $2.00 a Pitcher 

----.--~~~~-------------------~-------­
Claims FBI responsible 
Lane speaks on Dr. King 
Lane spoke last night before a
by Ed Moran Lane claims that the FBI broke
crowd of about 80 persons in
Staff Reporter Ray out of jail in Missouri for the 
Washington Hall. The talk, en­
purpose of blaming him for King's
titled ''The Assassination of Martin
Mark Lane, an attorney working 
Luther King,'' was sponsored by death.. :'J. ~dgar Hoover tllought
for the release of James Earl Ray, 
the Student Academic Commis­the C1vll Rights Movement was
statedthat the FBI is responsible for 

.

.....,..,.~,... ...................v..,._,.;a,..,..,......,._,_,.,.AJ~~~a,.,,.,,........,.....,.,.,..,.,.,..,~-, ..·......._. ~.....,..,,...~ ~_,..""',.,...,..,.•·.........,......,...,...,....,.,..,...._,....,.,.,.,. """'-•..,.._. .-,._ ........,.,..,..,..,..JI\io..,..,.,."".-·-----.. ..,.,.,. .......,..,.••,..,.....,.,...,.... ·~.•,.......... ...,...,..,~~~...,..,._,.~..........., ........,...,...,,..~..,....,•..;. 
. ... . 
• 

, . Thursday, October 12, 1978 ·the ObServer 11 


THERE'D BE ALESS FILLING BEER. HE ALSO ~LD ME TO TRY OUT FO~ GLE,!r~~~!:' 1 
. f 
{ 



I• 
I I 
~ 
t 

. . .·.· . . 1 ·.· . . ~ 
' l . . . . l .·;_ . . . : 
)_ -· -. 
! 

i ·· ..· . . . 
. ·t .. ·. . . . . . . 
·!:. t978 Miller Brewing Co.• Milwaullee. Wis } 

,· .f 
.. .
• 

~~----------.-..----.· ..·..... ' ~ . ..... .·,~ -., . 
. ­

. . . 
--·-----..--------~ ­
--~­
I 
I I I 
I 
I 
' 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I I I I I 


_, .·

..~------------~~--------~--~--~--------------------------~--------------------~~-----------------­
\ 
North Y2 mile east of notre dame 
Photo expert Underwood speaks 
18~81 Edison at lnd 23 
by EDen Gorman photography in one of a series of supplies of oil and natural gas in south 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood American Scene Lectures last night the sea and the detection of in Carroll Hall. earthquakes and forest fires. 
291-1001 

Richard Underwood of the Lyndon Space photography reveals in­Underwood, a winner of the master Charge Johnson Space Center in Houston, formation concerning the natural NASA Service Medal wih consider­features of the earth such as able involvement in such projects
'--·--•-•••••••••••••-••-...•••--••••-' spoke of the impact of space 
as the space shuttle and ApolJo,, stated that in the future these

*****************************************
.. satellite photographs wilJ serveiC infinite purposes such as detecting
• iC cancer to improving farming tech­niques.
iC The lecture included a slide presentation of satellite photo­graphy as well as Underwood's
iC personal involvement in the moon 
FIREWORKSIll iC 
landing.

Ftiday Octobet 13 Aftet the Pitt Rally ~ 
-ie
in Back of Stepan (apptox. 7:45)· ~ iC Law school interviews
iC 
ie· Representatives from George­
iC town, Ohio State and Creighton Law Schools wilJ interview interest­ed seniors tomorrow in room 222 of
Sponsoted ~ 
the Administration Building. Georgetown and Ohio State will interview from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
while Creighton will interview form 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Sign-up for the interviews can be comleted outside room 101 in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

Student Union £ 
~~~~***********************t 

f 12 the observer 
Hair Styling afw& 
for men and women who like 

t~look 277-073 
the1r best... 

'h mile north of campus, (U.S. 31 
N) Across from Randall's Inn ~-2)• bt
.Q'U" JA.lt 'tt.., 1% 
~· .U 
John Kennedy, Senator Robert pressed in previous investigations
Support Fight in' Irish Hockey 
of the assassinations. 

Kennedy, civil rights leader Martin 
Season Tickets On Sale ACC Gate 1 0 
Luther King, and the attempted ''At the expense of sounding 


slaying of George Wallace, ex-gov­paranoid," he remarked, "un­
ND & St. Mary's Students 

resolved contradictions point
ernor of Alabama. 
"They've been killing leaders strongly toward the possibility of a
13 game seasonticket $13.0 
since there've been leaders; conspiracy.''Friday Night Only · there is nothing new about that,'' In the case of James Earl Ray, 
(7 games) $7.00 Saturday Night Only (6 games) $6.00 

for a great time Ride The 
QUICKIE
Departure from the main circle and LeMans every hour starting at 7:pm 
Stops Kubiaks, Jay's, Shula's, Heidelberg Forum i& II Cinemas Price Only S1.00 for an all nite pass Date Fri. 13, October 1978 Free T-Shirts First come -first serve 

bring your 18 ID's Sponsored by 
NO & SMC social commissions 

1r.~--------------------------------------­
I I I I I I I I 

Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, 
with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
Chris Leonard, Mark Koenig, Rose May, jim Dorgan, were only four people to show up for a Toga Pary held in Stepan
open late tues.-thurs. 8pm 
Center last night. A good time was had by all. [Photo by Cate l..---NIIaRennisl
272-7222 
Thursday, October 12, 1978 
• 

Yazijian dis~usses assassinations 
by Ray McGrath small group Tuesday afternoon in power held by these two organiza­
tions and their use of those powers. 
Staff Reporter the Little Theatre of LaFortune Dealing primarily with the
Student Center. Harvey Y azijian, of the Assass­The discussion focused upon he killings of President Kennedy and 
King, Yazijian spoke of evidence
ination Information Bureau (AlB) poMtical forces and factions at work of Washington, D.C., discussed in the United States government which the AlB, an independent 
1 "The Politics of Conspiracy" with a during the 1960's, and how these non-profit organization, had com­factions may have contributed to piled. Much of this information, the assassinations of President Y azijian claimed, has been sup­
convicted killer of King, Yazijian
Yazijian pointed out. However, the possibility that the FBI and the CIA stated that while it appears that 
Ray was involved in criminalwere involved in the assassinations activities, possibly with right-wingand cover-ups unleashes some 
important questions as to the extremist J.B. Stoner: the ballistic and fingerprint tests that were conducted do not confirm Ray as the killer, or even as having been in the immediate vicinity of the crime. 
In addition, the one eye-witness allowed to testify at the trial was drunk at the time of the killing. 
According to Y azijian, Ray ''probably did not even know he was being set up." 
In the King killing, Y azijian proposed the possibility of FBI involvement in at least the cover­up. 
The FBI was the main investiga­tive body used, and they apparently ignored likely connec­tions between Ray and his sources of money, information, and aliases. 
Reasons for this have been hypothesized, but as yet have not been proven or admitted to. 
Lee Harvey Oswald, alleged assassin of President Kennedy, was killed before he could come to trial. Yazijian said that no official testimony by Oswald and the loss of important information and medical tests, the facts point to a lack of reliability in the government state­ments. 
Yazijian said that it is his personal opinion that Kennedy was "killed by a runaway faction of the CIA" .because Kennedy had quelled a CIA-backed anti-Castro campaign. 
However, he pointed out that the killing could have occurred because of Kennedy's stand on VietNam or mob drug trafficking, both of which the CIA may have been involved in. 
''This kind of thing has .occurred in other instances; there is no reason to say it didn't happen in this case," he said. 
If CIA and mob connections are proven in the House Assassination Committee report on Kennedy's killing, the American people's "minds will get blown," empha­sized Yazijian; "it will give the government a chance to reform and "to live up to the values, concepts, and morality upon which our country was founded...We aren't doing .-that now." 
Booth themes 
due Monday 
All Mardi Gras hall booth chair~ men and architects are reminded that their theme ideas and rough blueprints are due in the Mardi Gras mailbox (located in the Stu­dent Government office) by Monday, Oct. 16. 

Thursday, October 12, 1978 
the observer 13 
Doctor discusses student illnesses 
Robbie Moore Staff Reporter 

Despite the number of students who seem to be missing classes and tests1ue to illness, there is no flu epidemic threatening the campus, according to Dr. S. Bernard Yager, ~ssociate university physic­ian of the Notre Dame Student Health Center. 
Vagner's records show that 2000 clinic visits were made during September, and 2000 more will probably be counted during Oct­ober. He reports that this number of clinic visits in not unusual during this or any other season during the school year. 
What is significant is the kind of ailment currently plaguing the students, Vagner said. The major­ity of cases treated have been upper respiratory colds. 
Vagner stated that this type of aftlication is characteristic" places such as Notre Dame where a large number of people are living togeth­er in close proximity, and that there is no cause for alarm. • 
Places where people are drawn together: the Huddle, the dining 
halls, the classrooms, the dorms, 
naturally lend themselves to the 
easy spreading of cold germs. 
Students who cough and sneeze 
infect each other. 
Vagner advised that student... 
carry tissues and cover their 
mouths when they feel the urge to 
cough or sneeze. This will reduce 
greatly the transfer of germs. . 
Another reason that students find 
themselves ill is that they do not 
know how to take care of them­
selves properly after exercising_·. 
Concerned with cooling off as 
quickly as possible, students may 
sit on the grass or remain outdoors 
instead of going inside or covering 
up with warm-up jackets and 
sweats. 
Vagner contends that inducing 
the body temperature to drop 
rapidly after strenuous exercise is 
bad for the athlete's health. 
Students also find themselves susceptible to colds due to lack of sleep, a heavy academic work load, and an active weekend. These factors may work to lower body resistance to cold germs. 
Other complaints investigated at 
the infirmary since the beginning of the year include common sore throats and gastro-intestinal infect­ion (nausea and vomiting). 
The more serious problems in­clude: two roommates who had an isolated case of chicken pox; athletes with _sports-related injur­ies, and "accidents", such as one student who stepped on a piece of glass while walking barefoot. 
Vagner points out that there has been no run on mono or strep throat; the only recurring comp­laint has been the common cold. 
Vagner stresses that  "the Stu­ 
dent Health  Center  is  a  service  
which  exists  for  the  students'  

benefit. Its primary propose is to keep the student functioning as a student.'' 
He is concerned about the stu­dents who come in and say, "I wouldn't have come, but... " and wants them and others to know that it is important that they come in and take care of themselves when they are ill. It is only in this way that epidemics are avoided. 
Students should also know that they must come in and have a record of treatment before they can obtain a medical excuse for missing 
Republicans begin to seek support for tax reduction 
, 
WASHINGTON [AP]-House Republicans began drumming up support yesterday for a Senate bill that would reduce individual taxes an additional $164.5 billion be­tween 1980 and 1983 if the growth of government spending is checked. 
·The Senate added the conditional tax cuts for future years to the $29.3 billion tax cut for 1979 that was approved Tuesday night. The $16.3 billion version approved by the House includes cuts only for 1979. 
House Republican leader John Rhodes of Arizona said the House will vote today on a GOP motion instructing conferees to accept the Senate provision, which was spon­sored chiefly by Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga. 
If such a motion were successful, it would make \t difficult for Congress to approve a tax cut bill that did not include the long-term reductions. And ifthat led to a veto by President Carter, Sen. Henry Bellman, R-Okla., told a news conference, the American people would demand that Congress over­ride Carter's objections. 
Rhodes and Rep. Barber Conable of New York, chief Republican on the House Ways and Means Com­mittee, rallied quickly to the Nunn proposal, calling just of refinement of the GOP's Kemp-Roth amend­ment. 
Sen. William V. Roth, R-Del., a co-author of Kemp-Roth, showed up at the news conference to hand out cigars and announcements of the "birth of Son ofRoth-Kemp." 
However, the key difference between Kemp-Roth and the Senate approved amendment is obvious. Kemp-Roth, rejected by the House and Senate, would reduce individual income tax rates by an average of one-third over three years with no requirelnent that the rate of government spend­ing be slowed. 
In fact, Arthur Laffer, the California economist whom Republi cans refer to as their "guru," and who is credited with creating some of the political momentum for Kemp-Roth, specifically rejected the idea of matching spending reductions as counterproductive. 
The Nunn amendment was approved by the Senate on a 65-20 vote. Opponents agreed with Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, D-Maine, chairman of the Budget Commit­tee, that the proposal may '"hinder the efforts of future .Congresses to 
· make budgets w~ich C9flform to th~ c~anging needs of the· eOOru:lmy'-as well as to the basic goals of economy ..• budgetary balance and a moderate tax burden." 
Sen. Russell B. Long, who will 
head the Senate delegation to the 
tax conference, indicated to report­
ers that he might think more of the 
long-term tax cuts than he showed 
earlier. 
"This...amendment points up 
what most senators think--that 
we'd like to cut spending with tax 
cuts ,to match and balance the 
budget at the same time,'· the 
Louisiana Democrat said. 
But Long also echoed some of the 
concern raised by the Carter 
administration when he predicted 
that the big priority in the confer­
ence will be to hold down the cost 
of the tax cut bill in future years. 
That referred not only to the new 
tax cuts that would take effect 
under the Nunn amendment but to 
the fact that some other provisions 
added by the Senate would cost 
little in 1979 but the pricetag would 
soar in 1980 and beyond. 
In fact, Muskie estimates that 
while the Senate measure would 
cost 21.7 billion in the current 
budget year, the cost would soar to 
$144 billion in budget year 1983. 
The Senate-passed bill, assum­
ing federal spending targets are 
met and the tax reductions in the 
Nunrl amendment take effect, 
would reduce individual taxes by 
about 25 percent over 1979:1983 
period. 
For the tax cuts in 1980 through 
1983 to be realized, the growth of 
government spending d\Jring that 
period would have to be reduced 
below current expectations by $84 ­
billion. 
Federal spending in the current 
budget year, fiscal 1979, will be 
around $488 billion. Under the 
Nunn amendment, that could grow 
to $639 by 1983 and still allow the 
extra-year tax cuts. 
The tax cut in 1982 would go into 
effect only if the budget in that year 
is balanced. 
If these conditions were met. 
Nader visits ND, Crane cancelled 
Ralph Nader will visit the Notre Dame campus Nov. 2. The topic of his talk will be student activism pertaining to consumerism. 
Presented by the Student lJnion Academic Commission (SUAC) they also announced the cancell­ation of Presidential .candidate Phillip Crane's visit on Dec. 5. Crane's talk will be rescheduled, individual taxes would be cut by $11,8 billion in 1980, $31.3 billion in 1981, $47.7 bil1ion in 1982 and $73.7 billion in 1983. 
The congressional compromise on tax legislation to be developed by House-senate negotiators covers federal income tax reductions that class work. ''The infirmary cannot manufacture excuses for students after the fact," Vagner explains. 
would  help  offset  next  year's·  
scheduled  increases  in  Social  
Security payroll taxes.  

Some students come in and ask for a written excuse after they have missed an exam, when they should report illness before an exam. 

"We can only state that we treated a student for a certain illness, but we can't guarantee that he missed an exam because he stayed in with a cold if we have no record of threatment for him," Vagner states. 
. 

UNITED WAY AT ND: A commUNITY EVENT 
''When 1was hunqRy, you c,ave me to eat, 
"

when 1 was thiRsty, you qave me to ORJnk... 
Thanks to you all: 
--N.D. Student Body  --ffiichelle Renaldo  
-­ H.P.C. & Hall V.P.'s  --Trudy at Campus Ptess  
--Student Government  --Section Leadeta, Hall Collectors  
--Obsetver  (Dave Huffman)  
--Ombudsman  --Chris's Collection Crew  
--Picture People (above)  

(Good Luck Chris Dlgan, next year's Chairman) 
Thursday Nov. 9, 1978 8pm Notre Dame ACC 
All Seats Reserved $9.50 & $8.00 Ticket Sale Starts This Monday Oct. 16th ACC Box Office 
Student Union Ticket Office at 9am-5pm Limit 6 Tickets per Purchase 




..,, ' . ..
.' 

., 
I : 

----------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------.------------------.. 
14 the observer Thursday, October 12, 1978 
i ; 
\ ' 
{ 
l 
\ ' 
! . 
\ 
i' 
I 
) 
,

ACROSS 
1 Actress Rosemary 
7 Orchestra section 
(abbr.) 
10 Like some jobs
14 Not righteous 
15 South African capital 
17 Light, ringing sound 18 Dweller 19 Breakfast item 20 Is mournful 22 Firearm . 23 Mr. Schoendienst 25 Tailless amphibians 26 Food fish 27 More despicable 29 Newspaper items 30 Mistake 31 Allures 33 Swindle 34 Spanish explorer 35 Language of the 
Koran 39 Tennis need 40 Think 42 Common ailments 45 Like some checks 47 Topic 16 "-the season ..." 48 Of the Franks 21 Castle defense 50 Sidney Poitier role 24 "Daniel -" 51 Trigonometry (Eliot novel) 

abbreviation 26 Musical works 52 Failed to include 28 Appraises 54 Children's game 30 -acid 56 Combine 32 Small bed 58 Word in two state 33 Ill-bred person 
names 36 Robert r~erri 11 , 60 Makes joyful for one 61 Made uniform 37 Repeated 62 Cosmetician ----38 Ballplayer Ron ----
Coty 40 Word in Bogart film 63 Suffix for Siam title 64 Marries again 41 Do newspaper work 
42 Furniture wheel 43 East coast ball­
DOWN 

player 1 Coin part 44 Of a Christian 2 Leave the land season 3 Fills to excess 45 Pool table 4 Bulky boat materials 5 Shopping place 48 Hit hard 6 Fold in cloth 49 Yielder 7 Ranches 52 Ending for pay 8 Styles 53 Mr. Selznick, for 9 Takes ten short 
10 Turf 55 "My gosh!" 11 Mt. Hood's state 57 Street, for short 12 Ending 59 ----Gardens, in 
46 Actor MacDonald-13 Torn piece England 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
LAW? BUSINESS ? or PUBLIC POLICY? 
Which graduate program offers the best preparation for a career in public service? On Friday, October 20, Greg Upscomb, a representative of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard Univer­sity, will be on campus to discuss the School's program in public policy. Students from all majors are invited. Contact Placement Bureau, Administra­tion Bldg., Rm. 213, 283-8342. 

An Tostal Now accepting applications for exec. staff positions 
vice-cha-irman day chairman asst. day chairman 
special events coordinator secretary 
Applications at ND Student Gov't office and SMC Student Activities 

collegiate crossword Brzenk discusses Oriental rugs 
Eugene Brzenk, associate profes­sor of English, will discuss "Oriental Rugs for the Modest Collector" at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Art Gallery. 
A member of the Hajji Baba Society, an international organi­zation of collectors of oriental rugs, Brzenk has lectured extensively on the subject in recent years. 
He uses several examples from his own collection, including the Sarouk, Kashan, Bokhara, Belouch and more than 25 other types, mostly nomadic rugs, to illustrate his talk. Also on display tonight will be several rugs recently given to the University by Mr. and Mrs. Terrence Dillon. 
A special feature of Brzenk's talk is an explanation of prayer rugs, their design, symbolism and uses. He illustrates the kinds of rugs available to the collector of modest means, and offers suggestions for finding, acquiring, and taking care of oriental rugs. 

Roche proposes record store 
,_ 
(continued from page 1) tion, $5,000 is called for in order to obtain the initial stock for the store. 
The total cost would be approxi­mately $7,500. 
According to Beau Mason, Student Government treasurer, the SG Board of Commissioners created a Strategic Reserve Fund of 
$15,000  which  would  either  be  
re-allocated next semester,  or  go  
for emergency expenses.  

Mason explained that the first priority for this fund will be 'the establishment of a SU record store. However, Mason added that the status of such a store is uncertain at the present time. 
Competition with Bookstore is main problem 
Roche singled out competition with the ND Bookstore as the main problem blocking the store. He said he thought there was a rule in , du Lac which prohibits the duplica­ition of sales of the mercha 1dise of 
the Bookstore. 

However, in the 1978-79 edition of du Lac, the University policy on merchandising only calls for ap­proval from the director of student activities for stuent merchandising activities. 
DuLac states, "Residence halls and campus organizations which would like to engage in other types of merchandising, (merchandising other than concession stands on days of home football games) must present their requests for such merchandising to the Student Ac­tivities Office. . . . the request is then taken to the Student Activities Director for final approval." 




John Reid, director of Student Activities, who has the authority to make the final decision, said he chose to pass the decision on to Fr. John L. Van Wolvlear, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs. 
Explaining that he was too far out of touch with the music scene today and that he did not feel qualified to decide the iss.ue, Van Wolvlear said he asked Roche to discuss the proposal with Jack Schneider, who is chairman of the Student Affair Subcommittee of the Board of Trustees. 
Roche hopes to speak with Schneider about the issue some­time during the Trustees meeting this weekend. The proposal is not formally listed on the agenda. 
Although du Lac does not 

specifically state that duplicating 
sales of the Bookstore is prohib­
ited, University officials disapprove 
such competition. 

Both Reid and Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice president of Business Affairs. seriously. 
ltr ..............u 

I 
questioned such competition on the grounds that the revenue from the Bookstore goes into the University genera] fund. 
Concerning this issue, Roche commented, "Even if the Book­store's profit from record sales was decreased by the SU record store, as soon as its stock is built up the SU store's profits could be chan­nelled into the University general fund." 
Van Wolvlear did not emphasize the issue of Bookstore competition and said that the seriousness of such competition would depend upon the magnitude of its effects. 
He also suggested that there could be. an ethical question in­volved if the SU record shop would destroy the livelihood of off-cam­pus record stores. 
A recent study estimated that ND students normally comprise 20 to 30 percent and in. some cases SO percent of the customers of off­campus record shops.· 
Commenting on the possible problem.~. Roche said, "It may be a problem but I don'think it will hurt anyone much, and I know it won't. 
put anyone out of business.'' 
IUSB theatre opens season 
Theatre IUSB opens its 1978-79 season tonight with New Year's Eves, an original comedy in three acts. Written by Tom VanderVen, chairman of the IUSB English Department, the plays revolves around two sisters that are viewed at three different times of their lives. 
Consisting of a cast comprised of msa students and non-student residents of the Michiana com­munity, New Year's Eves also will play Oct. 13, 14, 20, 21, at 8:15 
p.m. and Oct. 22 at 2:15p.m. in the Northside Hall Main Theatre, IUS B. 



Thursday, October 12, 1978 tha ohaArvAr 15 .. 
NOTICES Wanted: 2 Pitt GA tix call Jim: 1034. 
Grandmother coming from Ireland to see -----------------------------------. N.D. Need 2, 3, or 4 GA tickets for 

NBA East
Blue Line Club will sponsor Student Need a ride to Columbus, Ohio for this Miami. Call Bill 8986. 
Hockey Booster Club. lntersested? Call weekend. Call Ellen 4-1-4394. 
8488 
Need riders to Louisville for Oct. break. 
preview
Wanted: people j who need riders at 
Leaving Sat. noon after GRE exam. Call
Gay students of Notre Dame Gay Infor-break call 6283 and leave your name with Sue 6971.mation. Write P.O. Box 206. , the Student Union -Ombudsman Rider 
[continued from page 16]
Service. 
Wanted: 
climb out of the Atlantic cellar. 
Study Abroad this summer? Interested­
. Two beautiful blonds need ride to 
Center George Johnson re­
contact Dr. A.R. Black SMC 4948 Wanted: Plant lovers to purchase Nashville Tenn. for Oct. break. Call 
bounds well and blocks shots well, 
adorable hanging plants. S.U. plant sale. 4-1-4282.
Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate, Sunday 10/15 S.U. offices 1:30 to 3:30. 
but he doesn't score points.
reasonable. Close to campus. Phone 
WANTED: Need ride to NYC-Connecti· 
The Nets have turned comer and
272-7866. ' Wanted: 4 GA Pitt tix call George 1785. cut area over October break. Will share 
!should improve this year. They
driving and expenses. Call 5148. 
may even surprise a few teams.
Episcopalians: Anglican Eucharist offered Wednesdays 3:30 p.m., Grace Need riders going West on 1-80 for fall 
; Centnd Division 
Need ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. Fitz,
Call Time 1105. 

· San Antonio Spurs--The Spurs were 
Hall Chapel. break. Please call susan 4-1-4509. Thanks so much for typographical fingers. You're one wonderful and 
one of the best teams in the NBA
Planning awedding or dance? Music for Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Mike 3003 or 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for October charitable guy! 
last season but they were knocked
that special occasion. The Dennis Sandy 4-1-5271. 
break. Will share driving and expenses; signed, 
out of the playoffs so early that
Bamber Quartet. 272-8266 can leave anytime after Thursday, 4:30 Neil's biggest fan 
nobody heard about them.
Desperately need ride to Central New 
p.m. Please call Bath, 8152.
REMEMBER THE DATE!! This Friday York, Syracuse-Albany tor October 
"The Iceman," George Gervin,
Maura-the 13th from 7:30-10;00 p.m. in the break. Call Dick 1213. Need rides to Tuscan or as far West as Ask Beth about forks and spoons, and 
lighted up ·the scoreboard last 
Logan Center cafeteria is the Annual possible. Mary 4-1-4702. 
what silverware has to do with Chevro­
season and he won the scoring title. 
Halloween Dance for the mentaly handi­Ya'll Help! Need ride to Memphis for lets. Then tell her that roses are forever, 
A 6-7 guard, Gervin is virtually
capped kids and adults of South Bend. break. Call 7821. Pleasei! Need ride to New York City or right? 
unstoppable. The other Spur guard
Bring a friend to the dance for an hour or Lon1 Island for break. Call Matt Don two after the pep rally--dress up in 2 GA Miami tickets between 30's. Call 
is journeyman Mike Gale. ABA
234·2354. P.S. Tell her she doesn't have to tell
cognito--Haloween style. fine music John at 1154 7-11. 
legend Louie Dampier is the back­
and rock and roll will be provided by the Help! I desperately need ride to Texas you. 
up.
live band called Pages. Questions call for break. Will share driving, expenses. Joan McCurdy-1 like your picture. You 
The biggest point producer in the
Mike 1371 or Sue 4-1-4832. 
Needed desperately: One GA for Pitt Call 8598. are who I thought you were. 
frontcourt is Larry Kerion. He has 
game. Call Brian 3092. ·'Killer Bee'' in Sorln 
performed wen since he was traded
Logan's first "Early Bird" recreation 
Wt.NTED: Ride to Indianapolis on P.S. What are you doing this weekend?
period will be held this Saturday morning 
from the Nets three seasons ago.
Wanted: 3 or more GA Pitt tickets. Call Friday afternoon, Oct. 20. Will share
from 8:30-10:15 a.m. at Logan Center. 
The biggest rap on Kenon is his
John 6664. expenses. Call Greg 3506. Beautiful Lewis Redhead is a vision of
The "Early Bird" rec is a regular rec, but 
lovliness. 
defense. The other forward is
is early so everyone has time to enjoy the Wanted_:. Two (2) Pitt tix. Call Anita, ATTENTION! 
Mark Olberding. Had Olberding
festivities before the game. So come and 
272-5350. Need ride to Boston for October break. Wish sexy Bien a Happy Birhtday. Call 
stayed in college, he would now be
join the fun. Questions call Mike 1371 or 
·Call Renee, 3848. 3464. 
in his rookie year. He could be a
Sue 4-1-4832. 
Need GA tlx for Pitt. Call 4-1-4796 Janet. New Orleans-Need ride for the October 406 Napolean­
power forward in the Dave DeBuss­
Desperately need Pitt tix. Call 4-1-5754 break. 288-5224. The hosts were super­
chere mold. 
FOR RENT 

Nicki. The dinner first rate; 
The Spurs should again win their 
I need ride East on 1-80 to Penn State ·How can we thank you 
division, but they are not strong
Apartment for rent. 2 bedrooms. $150 
Need two tickets (GA) for Miami game. exit, October break. Kevin 283-1652 and For being so great?! 
enought to survive more than two
per month, plus utilities. Call Denny 
Call Joe 1101. 3745. Love,
Geyer 232-1833 or 289-7911. 
rounds of the playoffs.
Your Dinner Guests Needed: One (1) student tickety to Pitt. Need 1 ticket to Young concert on the P.S. The next one's on us! 
Houston Rockets--The Rockets 
Call John 8828. floor. Call Marty 8872. 
went all the way to the Eastern
LOST & FOUND MJR: 

Conference finals in 1977 but they
Need GA tickets to Pittsburgh game. Call OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/full time. OOOH! It's high time you were 
were a washout in 1978. Obvious­
Please! If anyone picked up a book of Ruth 7136 afternoons. 272-3513 evenings Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. celebrating 120! 
ly they were affected by the sucker
student football tix last Saturday between 
All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses 
• MB
the Green Field and the Engineering 
punch which wiped out forward
Need many tickets for Pitt game. Call paid, sightseeing. Free info.-Write: 
Building, Please call me. Margie 1786. International Job Center, Box 4490-14 The Adonis Tonite. 9-11 p.m. on WSND 
Rudy Jonobnovich. His loss hurt 
~1-5183. 
Berkeley, CA 94704 640. Sentimental Ladies Night. Tune in. 
the whole team. But he's back
-------------------Need: Many student Pitt tickets. Please 
and his team could be on its way.
Lost: 
call 7443 or 3096. Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work To the guy that called about my coat on 
Rick Barry, basketball's very
Someone took my N. 0'. Jacket by 

at home-no experience necessary-excel­Tuesday. You're an--~----! 
own gypsy, is now on the Rocket
mistake Saturday night from Dooley's. 
Wanted: Pitt tix. Call Biv 288-9988. lent pay. Wrtte American Service, 8350 Patl1683
My name is inside. Please call Pat 1683. 
roster and he should steady the
Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX 75231 
Need GA Pitt tix. Call M.B. 1293. Bob Rudy: 
team. Moses Malone is the center.
Lost at the Hurricane: 1 pair of glasses, SKI INSTRUCTORS WANTED. Posi­Retaliation is forthcoming! 
He improved his scoring last
silver wire rim. If found, call Brian, at 
I need 2 Pitt tix. Call Jim 232-o550. tions opened at Royal Vally Ski School, 
season and he was a fine rebound­
1813. only 12 miles from Notre Dame. Joan, 
er to begin with. Moses is only 24
Teaching experience not necessary, must Happy 21st. We've got to go to theLett folder in Rm. 110 O'Shag, Oct. 4. 
and he's getting better all the time. 
Need several GA Pitt tickets. Please call be able to ski. First meeting, Oct. 17, 7 bars!
Desperately needed! Please call 
Robert Reid at 6-8 should also see
Tim or Joe at 1850 or 1n5. Thanks. p.m. South Bend time. (616)695-3847 'love, Sheila
288-1866 after 6:00. Reward!! 
Main St.-BKuchanan, MI. 
playing time as guard as well as 
Wanted:: Three GA tickets for Miami Chuckles and Ed (Jack Knauf) make a 
will Slick Watts who was picked up
Lost: 
game. Call 2254. Need bicycle second-hand. Call 234-1633 great pair of W's--one's awaste and the 
in the pre-season.
1) An opal ring. 
other's a wimp.
2) A Nardin High School Ring. 
Detroit Pistons-· The Pistons must
Need GA tickets for Pitt. Call Jerry 3795. Steak & Ale Is looking for an attractive
3) Gold ring with red, blue and pink 
have been happy with the Boston­
cocktail waitress. Must be dynamic and Student Union Plant Sale Ill Sunday Oct. 
stones. 
Help! Need 6tickets any home game-call personable. Will be needed during 15. Student Union offices 1:30 to 3:30 
Buffalo swap because they moved
Call 8144. ROCCO at 1479. Christmas break. If interested apply In hang ing baskets. 
into the Central division where 
person between 2-5 p.m. Mon-Fri. 
their chances for making the play­
Lost at Hurricane: 
Need 3 GA's and Once student ticket for If you need aride home at break call 6283 
offs are the greatest.
blue N.D. Swimming jacket. Please 

Pitt. AHAB 8865. The alternative cocktail hour!! Steak & and the Student Union-Ombudsman 
return to 254 Cav. or Stanford T.V. Ale presents Michalob .75 Ale .75 Rider Service can help. 
Center and team captain Bob 
lounge. · 
Lanier has been a fixture in Detroit Ily all together]. Call John at 1991. visit our Pub! 11:31H Mon-Fri Debbie Smith wants all you N.D. MEN 
I need 5GA Miami tickets [not necessar­Wine .50 All cocktails 2 for 1 Come 
for many seasons. He is a solid,
Found: 
(including Beasts and Killer Bees). Call 
consistent player. The pistons
Contact lens in case found between Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home #3352 for appointment. (Satisfaction 
have three good forwards in John
Huddle and Music Bldg. Turned into football game. Call Mike 7838. PERSONALS guaranteed).Observer office. Contact Mrs. Popovich 
Shumate, a former Notre Dame 
to claim. MO· 
starter, Leon Douglas and M.L.
Needed: Pitt tickets. Call Matt 233-7213. Dear Janice,
Super Happy Birthday Cutie!! Hope 
Carr. All three can score and
Thanks so much, I love you dearly. I 
FOR SALE Need two GA tickets to Tenneuee. Call your day is great!! still owe you a drink... 
rebound well. Defense may be a
Diane, Kristin, Michelle &Maritza
Tony 6718. ~.S. El, what would I do without you? 
problem.
For sale: One student Pitt ticket. For P.S.S. I love you too Mary Ellen
ATTENTION ND-SMC COMMUNITY 
Detroit should make the playoffs
best offer. Call Greg, 1159. Need GA tix to Pitt, Tennessee. Call Jorge
The Annual St. Nick's Bazaar is less 
but they will be wiped out in the
Jerry, Herman 1398. 
than two months away! People are 
first round. 
2Snow tires, excellent condition: 165-15. Mary Nies is 19 today--call her and wish 
Cost $45 each, $50 for both. Chis 3748. Desperately need Pitt tickets. Student or needed to sponsor booths. If interested her Happy Birthday at 6789. 
Cleveland Cavaliers--The Cavs are
call Betz at 4-1-5148.
GA. Call Tom 2n-1071. 
below average. Their front line is
For sale: Mary "Sabrina,"
Poor Sarky. He's in the hospital with a 
Campy Russell, Jim Chones, and
Sofa/sleeper; wall recliner chair; Need 10 Miami GA tickets. Call Joe Feliz cumpleanos, chica!
bunch of trouble. The doctor comes in hs 
Jim Brewer, now that Elmore
luggage. Call 277-3278 or 'ln-2733. 8588. Querida, Bea 
room and shouts, "Sarky! Your big, 
Smith has been injured and will be
long, round. hard cast Is shattered into a
For Sale: Texas Instrument 51A Scienti­Need GA Pitt tickets. Call 8432. I can't think of any eloquent way of 
out for the first part of the season.
million pieces on the floor!! What
fic Calculator. $50 or best offer. Call saying it, so "Happy Birthday Roomie!" 
There's nothing special about
happened?''
Kevin-1787. Help family keep together. Need' 2 GA Claire
"I don't know," mutters Sarky. His 
this team. They will miss Smith
Tennessee tickets. Call Slick-1008. 
hurt leg lies naked on the sheets, 
and struggle to make the playoffs.
Megan,1973 Porsche 914. New Mlchelins, FM, throbbing. "I ouess the nurse didn't
Desperately need 7 GA's for Tennessee. Happy B-day. Are you cracking up from 
New Orleans Jazz--Pete Maravich. · 
2.0 litre with appearance group. Excel­come in time, eh"?"
· Call Bill 8604. lack of shaking up? We love you, 
That's the name of this team. Sure
lent condition, 25,000 miles. $3900. YOPM J.J., Happy, Chugs, Scoop, Hyper, H.P., 
there's Truck Robinson but he is
272-3558 (after 5 pm). 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Julie 4-5798. and B.S. 
having contact trouble. The rest of 
Mardi Nevin is a "foxy chick" 
For sale: four (4) Neil Young tickets at 
the team is sub-par.
URGENT 

cost. Call Tim 3666. Griff-
Need 4tickets to Pitt. 2 pairs O.K. Call Megan, 
Rookie James "Trouble" Hardy
Happy Birthday and forget the light
Phil Foster 255-2181 from 8-4:30 or Neil The little Mexican wants to wish you a 
from San Francisco should help,
Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., beer.
Murphy 256-1043 after 5. Happy B-day personally. He says to 
but it's all still up to Maravich. If
Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general E.& H. 
bring lots of gum and he will meet you on 
the Pistol is on, the Jazz can win; if
shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, Would appreciate 2 GA Pitt tickets. Call the bus.
683-2888. Dear ME 
he's off, they lose. 
Tim 1064. P.S. What's up?
Avoid "withdraw!" sym~toms--give 
Adanta Hawks--If the Jazz equals
WANTED me a call-we can dance or. ... !
I need GA Pitt tickets. Call Russ-8n2. The 329 Safari is ON for this Saturday! 
Pete Maravich, then the Hawks
DRUGS 

So, all you NO animals better beware! 
equal John Drew. The smooth 6-6
Desperately need ride to Atlanta for Oct. break. Can leave after Emil. Will share Toledoans; your messiah has arrived 
forward has been a star in the NBA
Need 2 GA tix to Miami. Please call Ed To my kiss-a-holic:
driving expenses. Call Tom, 1135. 
since he entered the league.
11n. I hope they never find a cure for our
All Observer reporters--original copies of 
to potato chip disease' 
Center Wayne "Tree" Rollins
Needed: 2 riders for plane trip last year's stories will be available at the
Need GA Tennessee tickets. Call1904. Your muffin head 
could develop into one of the
Colorado over break. Call Chris or office until Oct. 16. 
Zenon 288-8417. 
league's better centers. Dan
Help! I need 10 GA (5 sets of 2-is fine) Ray O'Brien
B. Lowler 
Roundfield, signed as a free agent, 
tickets for Miami game. Please contact I promise I won't put in any more
Need 4 adjacent GA tix to any home Guess who started running this week? 
should be a good power forward.
as soon as possible so travel plans can be personals about Ray the RA. You can't 
game. Call Mark 1478. Jogmania has hit 128! HELP!!
made. (283)-1044. Thanks. spell Rayw/o R.A. But then again, I may 
Armond Hill is a complete guard. 
-------
be wrong!
Need ride to Washington DC area for fall 
He should be joined by rookie
Good luck Missy. Congrats on making
break. Will sh~re driving anc 'l(penses. Mom and Dad will pay $$$ for 2 GA 
Butch Lee. Jack Givens, another Cal' ·1m 455; Tennessee tix -Call John 8656. Love, the Fritees HAPPY Birthday to the legal eskimo! 
the Basketball team. Kimball-ha Petite, 
rookie, will play at both forward 
Happy Hunting(ton) over break. R. B. 
and guard.
Need ride to ~ vaukee 1 lak. ride to New York City/Conn. Anne Me/,
Needed:
Call watchout·the red fox is on your trail! 
The Hawks should be a better
Tom, 1530. ~ea~~ break. 1/Yij l.shan: ex_ptlns~s ..C~all _ _What bappened .uoder 1he.t.1ble' at Jr. Love, Lookin' Good 
team in 1978, buth they still have
oifl o::~86. 
Semi?! 


a long way to go. 
---------------,-------~ ~~----------------~----.--------­• 
16 the observer Thursday, Ckiober 12, 1978 
ND soccer regains stride with win 
as a replacement but Rice was a
by Ray O'Brien 
captain and a leader.''

Sports Editor The injury couldn't have come at The ·FiJghting Irish soccer team a worse time as the Irish face what broke out of a mild slump Tuesday may prove to be their most impor­as they blasted Manchester College tant game to date tomorrow. 6-0, upping their record to a -lofty Notre Dame will take on a tough 11-1-1 on the season. Xavier quad at Cartier Field. · Tim N~uman opened the scoring 
The outcome may decide the Irish's 

for Notre Dame early in the game 
chance for a post season bid as

finding the net from close range as 
members of the Mideast Regional

the Irish came out applying full ....
will be present to evaluate the 

pressure on Manchester's goalie. 
talent of the team.

Minutes later Kevin Lovejoy made the score 2-0 as he booted "There's a real good attitude for 
horne his team-leading nineteenth Friday night's game," said goal ofthe season. The sophomore Finnegan. "We usually play well scoring ace has tallied goals in on Fridays because we have time to 
eleven of his team's 13 horne think about the game. We are in a games this season. do -or -die situation and we can't afford to lost anymore. We think 
. However, the offensive star this 
we deserve a post-season bid but

day was ND co-captain Terry 
we are going to have to go out and

Finnegan who displayed some 
prove it."

fancy footwork enabling him to find an open net on two occasions. Included in the host of evaluaters will be the coach from number
Finnegan, who has had the hot 
one-ranked Indiana, a team ND will

foot of late helping the Irish survive 
face later in the season. "We're

some rough times, upped his 
Two members of the Irish soccer team converge on the ball in Saturday's game against MSU. hoping for a big crowd to keep us
season tally to 13. The-leading 
[Photo by john Calcutt]. motivated," added , Rice. "We
returning scorer has displayed the 
have been looking better and I'm

kind of footwork lately that earned Kevin Garvey and Roman Klos Finnegan feels that the week senior detenseman was injured 
sure we are ready. We really want

him the team's MVP award for the finished up the scoring Tuesday might have been a blessing in against Goshen then reinjured torn 
to beat Xavier by more than a

past two seasons. afternoon giving the Irish a well disguise. "The loss made us lose ligament in the clash with MSU. 
couple of goals and I can promise

"I just got off to a slow start," needed rout. The shutout win COJ!fidence, but it also made us go Indications are that the standout 
that will keep us from looking past 

explains the senior forward. "I comes after tie and a loss. back to the basics. Kevin Lovejoy performer has seen his last soccer 
Friday night:". 

hadn't felt good early in the season "We had a mental letdown and I have been. working better game this season. but I've felt a lot better lately. We against Goshen," commented together now and that will help "Losing Jimmy is really going to The start of the Xavier game has 'llade some rearrangmf!nts up co-captain Jim Rice. "We were up us." hurt us," emphasized Finnegan. been set for 8 p.m. on Cartier Field front and it seems to be working for the Michigan State game but we The loss and tie was more costly "Jeff Rainer has. played really immediately following the football out." had lost some confidence by then." than the record indicates since tough and come up to the challenge pep rally. 


Dodgers win second. 
NBA East Preview 
game of Series, 4-3 
---------------Phillyreigns-
LOS ANGELES [AP]-Ron Cey best·of-seven series which switches 
The Natiomil Basketball Association's season opens tomorrow evening with a full schedule of drove in four runs with a single and to New York for Game 3 tomorrow games. The summer has been a hectic one, two franchises have changed hands, with one of a homer, and rookie Bob Welch night, when Don Sutton will pitch them moving to San Diego. Three have had numerous personnel changes. Because of rapid carne out of the bullpen in the ninth for Los Angeles against New York player turnover, it is rare that the same team rules for two consecutive years. Here's a preview of inning to save the victory as the Los ace Ron Guidry. 
the Eastern conference of the NBA. Angeles Dodgers defeated the New Cey, who drove in the first Los Atlantic York Yankees 4-3 last night in the Angeles run with a fourth-inning second game of the 75th anniver­single, turned the game around in 
. Philadelphia 76ers--the talent is there--it always has been--but some changes have been made. sary World Series. his next at-bat in the sixth. He Bobby Jones is now wearing a Sixer uniform. He should be a perfect complement to Julius The come-from-behind victorv drilled a 2-0 pitch from Catfish ~· Erving. The real Dr. J. should come out of hibernation now that Jones is his front court mate. gave the Dodgers a2-0 lead in the Hunter into the left-centerfield Erving and former Sixer George McGinnis never blended together. seats with two men aboard. 
The Philly center is Caldwell Jones--that is until man-child Darryl Dawkins proves that he is Lacrosse team It was the second time Cey had ready to assume the job. Had Dawkins chosen to attend college, he would now be in his senior tagged Hunter for a Series horne year. He still has plenty of time to mature. Third string center Harvey Cathings should be trade run. He also connected last year in
wins opener

bait. the second game of the Series. In 
The Sixers would have loved to see Phil Ford in their backcourt, but they could not pry him The Notre Dame Lacrosse team that game, .he Dodgers began their away from Kansas City. So they are left with a starting tandem of Doug Collins and Henry opened its fall season, Sunday on string of seven consecutive Series Bibby. Collins is a complete guard--he scores, assists, rebounds, and defends. Although Bibby Stepan Field, with a 10-7 victory games in which they have hit at has his shortcomings, he cjoes do a good job of running the Philly offense. Lloyd Free comes off over the Chicago Lacrosse Oub. least one hcmer. That is two short the bench to give the Sixers additional backcourt firepower. The Irish took the lead midway of the Se1 .~s record set by the 
Philadelphia should be a better team with the addition of Bobby Jones. He should help the through the first quarter and Yankees ir '936-37. Sixers win their division, conference and maybe even the NBA championship. controlled the game until the final Washington Bullets--Dick Motta's club won the championship last spring but they probably horn. 
Pep Rally set

won't win their division this season. Elvin Hayes silenced his critics by performing superbly· Notre Dame relied on its fast­during Washington's push to the championship. He is aided up front by old pros Wes Unseld break, running game and excellent The "Stop Pitt" pep rally will beand Bob Dandridge. Unseldis a bit of a liability on defense, be he rebounds well and stilJ sets goaltending by rookie Mark Tall­held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Stepanthunderous picks. Dandridge has held out for a new contract, but he should be back in the madge.· The agressive Irish had 39 Center. Featured guests willstarting lineup before too long. Greg Ballard, who wallowed on the bench during his rookie shots on goal to Chicago's 22. include Digger Phelps, former Irish season but exploded in the playoffs, should see more action this year. 
John Gray, PauJ Kizzo, and Tim football player Bronco Nagurski,The Bullet's guards are Kevin Grevey and Larry Wright. Playoff hero Charles Johnson 
Coach Merv Johnson, Steve

provides relief help in the backcourt. Phil Chenier recently underwent surgery and will be out Walsh each scored twice. Fonow­
for a major part of the season. ing with single tallies were Mike Heimkreiter and Dave Wayrner. 
The Bullets should finish second in the Atlantic conference and they should round into form by Caron, Carl Lundblad, Tim Immediately following the con­
Michels, arid John Romanelli. clusion of the rally, there will be aplayoff time. 
The Lacrosse Club will be in fireworks display behind StepanNew York Knicks--Willis Reed got th~_big man he wanted--Marvin Webster but he may be a but action again Saturday, after the Pitt Center, sponsored by the Studentthin in the backcourt. 
Game, at 3:30 on Cartier Field. Union Homecoming Committee. 
Webster should be a dominating force for the Knicks. He can rebound, block shots, and score points. If he develops more confidence in his outside shot, he will be a complete center. 
• 

The Knicks still have a scoring machine Bob McAdoo, who is good for 25 points a game. The other forward could be Spencer Haywood, Glen Gondrezick, or Jim McMillan (if he can come to 
Women's volleyball
contract terms.) 

The Knicks have few seasoned guards. Earl Monroe will probably not be back and the Knicks have released all other teams from giving them any compensation for signing him. Ray Williams injured his knee. Top draft pick Mike Richardson has a fractured ankle. The backcourt is in the 
splits double-header 
hands of Butch Beard and Jim Cleamons and second-year man Mike Glenn. With Webster, the 
Knicks should challenge the Bullets for the second spot in the division. 
Notre Dame's women's volley­having enough girls to play, but Boston Celtics--The old green and white just doesn't have the same appeal as it used to. John Y. 
ball team split their matches Tues­having someone to coach them.
Brown now owns the Celtics and they will no longer employ a selfless, team-oriented style of day night, defeating home team The girls coached themselves forplay. Moreover, "Bad News" Barnes, Tiny Archibald, and Billy Knight came over with Brown Purdue-Calumet 7-15, 15-7, 15-13, the first month of practice, beforefrom the Buffalo Braves. Only Knight is a player in the Celtic tradtion. Archibald shoots too and losing to St. Joseph's College acquiring a coach, Mel Gorowski,much and Barnes only plays when he is motivated. (Don't hold your breath.) 
15-7, 15-2. The team, now in its the night before their first match.
Dave Cowens has a new contract and he should be happy. But Big Red can't dO'it all be second year as a club sport, holds a Since then, the team has drilled onby himself. Jo Jo White is still _around, but he's faded in the last few years. Don Chaney never record of 3-8, an improvement over fundamentals. Says coachshould have left the ABA. Earl Tatum has the talent to start in the backcourt. 
last year's 1-16 slate. Gorowski, "I'm really proud of theThe Celtics will have a better team in 1978-79 but they are not a championship-caliber team. 
Co-captain Beth Larocha com­girls when they're out on the court. New Jersey Nets-The Nets can no longer be called Hoe's Jests because Ray Boe no longer owns mented on this years team, "We're They improve with every match. the franchise. Alan Cohen heads a new management group and the team seems to be on its way a lot more organized this year. Last only wish I could have coached up. year we never had the same six them from the beginning." 
The Nets have the best coach in professional basketball. Kevin Loughery is a great bench girls show up for practices and Notre Dame's next matches are coach and he knows how to handle players. games, if we even had six at all. tonight in Indianapolis against The Nets' best player is second-year man Bernard King. The other forward is another Now, we have 12 or 14 girls that Butler, DePauw and IUPUI. The • seoond-ye'!r man, Wilson Washington. If he develops as the Nets think he will, the Nets will show up consistently." team also plays Monday night_ at [continued on page 15] The problem this year was not Saint Mary's. 
.-i 
\: 
r 
. ~ 
I , : 
I I I I 
I I I ! 
. ­
:;\ 
h.
!( 
n 
(:
If 
I' 
ll !: ,. 
h 
;-' Jl
-I 
j( 
H
•I 
-~ ~ . l ~ 
p 
~-~ 
l; 
'I
I. 
v 
!~. 
\ 
')
I, 
,. 
\' 
,> 
' ' ' 
.. ' 
t: " ' 
,..., 
' 
f,---) . 
~­
; t '' 
-l: r·'( 
;,,. 
•' 
,J 
~ 
,1 
It•' 
II 
/
,, 
,t ,t
i 
,! ,I
f 
~· 
' l l I'•' 
I i l ,t •• 
.~
I 
' ,. 
\ ' ,I ~ 
' .. 
.'L 
·­
> -· I i)
I 
I 
,. -­i '·­
,• 
" ':; 
'I J 
'· ! >I
;, ~ 
' 
'· I r 
,::t
i I J_(' 
~ 
~ 
i' ~ 
,I
i 
~ 
i 
i 
'1
j ~ ~ I!'" 
•} 
I ' 
.'
' l
' 
l 
! 
":<., 



