
-:--.,....,..---......--------:----:--­
Start practicing early for the 1980 International Frisbee 
Olympics to be held 
Tibet. 

welcomed Third World 
MONROVIA, Liberia 
-President· Carter, 
winning a wild welcome yes­
terday at the end of his history-
making Third World tour, warned 
South Africa that refusing reason­
able proposals to end white rule 
of black Namibia could mean 
trouble with the United States. 
Carter headed horne from Lagos, 
Nigeria, with a four hour stopover 
in Liberia. His trip was the first 
official visit by an American Presi­
dent to black Africa. Carter, who 
left Washington ~even days ago, 
also went to Venezuela and Brazil. 
"I thought it was a great trip," 
he said summing up the 14,575­
rnile journey with his wife. Rosa­
lynn, and their 10-year old daugh­
ter, Amy. "Much better than we 
had anticipated in every way." 
carter's most enthusiastic wel­
come carne in Liberia, where the government declared a holiday and _tens of thousands -men in western garb, youngsters in dash­ikis and bare-breasted women in colorful skirts -cheered, waved palm fronds and danced in the 
streets. 
"The crowd has gone wild!" 
shouted an announcer on Liberian 
radio. "There is absolutely no 
control! This is impossible!" 
Amy stood in her father's limou­
sine with its top removed and 
waved. The president stood from 
time to time and waved, too. 
Important role to play 
Crowley predicts women priests 
MoUyWouHe Senior Staff Reporter 
"Christian women have a tre­mendous role to play in the Church," Patricia Crowley, foun­der of the Christian Family Move­ment and president of Space Inc. Travel Agency, told a small crowd last night in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans. "And they shouldn't be afraid of bishops and laity who say they do not." 
Crowley, a native of Chicago and holder of an honorary degree from Saint Mary's, presented her hour lecture on "The Christian Woman in Today's World" for SMC's first Women's Opportunity Week (WOW). 
Carter told reporters on his flight to Monrovia that if the South Africans "reject a reasonable pro­posal and move unilateral1y, it would be a serious indication of their unwillingness to comply" with the views and decisions of the world community. 
Such action by South Africa, Carter said, was "one thing that can precipitate a more serious difference between us and South Africa." 
The United States and four other western powers are trying to negotiate peaceful South African withdraw! from Namibia, the black nationalist name for South-West Africa, where the black majority is held under white South African rule in open defiance of the United Nations. 
The president, in his warning to South African Prime Minister John Vorster, ~id not say what action the United States might take. 
Vorster said in Cape Town, South Africa, that he would study the ful1 text of Carter's speech before commenting. 
U.S. rejection of a total economic embargo against South Africa was one of the key differences that developed during the president's talks with Nigerian leader Oluse­gun Obasanjo. 
''I think Obasanjo would be much more aggressive in a total embargo against South Africa," Carter said. 
"Women are going to be priests soon; you know that's going to happen," continued Crowley. "Certain women are really cal1ed, and I think they'd be very good. They, and Christian men, too, should be aware of their poten­tial." 
After discussing the validity of personal interpretations of the Bible with members of the audience, Crowley explained some of the problems Christians face in the business world. "A lot of people don't pay bills and checks bounce," she commented. "It's really hard to trust people. But Christians should be open to the world,''she noted further, "be­corning aware of injustices, and 


IN CLASS 
'Annie Hall,' Keaton, Dreyfuss take top Oscars 
HOLLYWOOD (AP] -"Annie Hal1," Woody Allen's wry comedy of his frustrations in love, won top honors at the 50th Academy A­wards last night with Oscars for best picture, actress Diane Keaton and Allen's writing and direction. 
Richard Dreyfuss, the frustrated actor of "Goodbye Girl," was named best actor of 1977. Vanessa Redgrave, the martyred anti-Nazi of "Julia" was selected best sup­porting actress and created a stir with a speech referring to critics of her pro-Palestinian film as "Zionist hoodlums.'' 
For the second year in a row, Jason Robards collected the sup­porting actor award, honored for his role as mystery writer Dashiel1 Hammett. 
"Star Wars" won the most 
awards of the evening -a count of 
six in various creative endeavors 
but none of the major Oscars. The 
film's makers can be consoled, 
however, by the fact that the sage 
ofouterspace warfare is the biggest 
moneymaker in history. 
Miss Keaton's award followed 
two others for her one-time boy­
friend and stil1 co-star, Woody 
Al1en, who was selected for his 
writing and direction of ''Annie 
Hal1." The comedian, who has 
expressed a distaste for artistic 
awards, remained in New York, but 
what we can do about them." 
Crowley also suggested that women "just start a business and become president" if they wish to serve on many boards. "You get asked to be on a lot of committees as the token woman," she noted. 
·WOW activities for today include a presentation, "Is Obedience a Fe­minine Virtue" by Ann Clark,SMC assistant professor of philosophy in Stapleton Louge, LeMans, at 10:30 a.m., and a musical workshop by Wendy and Ellen Britton in Staple­ton Lounge at 3:30 p.m. The Britton sisters will also conduct a blues and contemporary folk con­cert tonight at Spm. in the Little Theatre, Moreau Hal1. Admission is free. 

· 
author Neil Simon, director Herb Ross, producer Ray Stark and fellow players Marsha Mason and Quinn Cummings. 
Just after the best actor award, emcee Bob Hope took a rnornerntn to wich well to John Wayne, hospitalized in Boston after open heart surgery Monday. 
"We want you to know, Duke, we miss you tonight,'' H9pe said. "We expect to see you amble out here in person next year because 
no  one  else  can  walk  in  John  
Wayne's boots.  
Miss  Redgrave's  award  was  

applauded, but some members of the Music Center audience booed her words. The British actress had .aroused condemnation by the Jewish Defense League for a pro-Palestinian documentary film she sponsored. 
Playwright Paddy Chayefsky later offered a rejoinder to Miss Redgrave: "A proclamation wasn't necessary; a simple thank-you would have been enough." 
The remark drew cheers from the Music Center audience. Chayefsky presented the best original screen­play to Woody Allen and Marshall Brickman for "Annie Hall." 
Brickman appeared to collect his Oscar and said, "Half of this little piece of tin belongs to Woody." 
"He does a lot of brilliant work," said Brickman. "He picks up my lunch check for four months then on ApriiJ, he refuses to come out of his apartment." 
Outside the Music C_enter, groups of Jewish and Arab protes­tors gathered hours before the 
to and 

Ricardo Parra, director of Midwest Council of La Raza, met with members of the groundskeepers' coalition Hast night in Lafortune. The National Labor Relations Board will hold a hearing next Monday to consider the charJes of unfair labor practices it has made against the University, in connection with workers' attempts to unionize. The charges stem from a charge filed by the Teamsters last fall. [Photo by Ron S~otl 
Tuesday, April 4, 19'78
the observer 
,....News Briefs_______ 
Bergland stalls, grain soars 
WASHINGTON-Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland has delayed so long in buying wheat for an international food reserVe that its costs now are nearly 40-percent higher than when he announced the plan last summer. The plan involves 220 million bushels of wheat which the Carter administration announced last Aug. 29 would be purchased from the open market and kept as a reserve of food aid for needy countries. Bergland had the authority to buy the grain last summer but decided to wait until Congress approved legislation to set up the reserve. Action is still pending. 

Husband to get benefits 
PROVIDENCE, RI -Kenneth Hartt, a physics professor at the University of Rhode Island who followed his wife to Calif9rnia in 1974 because she had a good job offer, will be elgible for unemployment benefits, his attorney said yesterday. Women often are granted unemployment benefits when they leave their jobs to follow their husbands, but this is the first time in Rhode Island that a man has received them under similar circumstances. The director of the American Civil Liberties Union said the decision is a significant step in eliminating sex discrimination in the policies of the Department of Employment Security. 



WEATHER 
Partly cloudy and warm today with a 30 percent chance for showers and thunderstorms by the afternoon. Highs in the mid-to upper-70's. Turning cooler tonight with a 60 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. L~ws in the upper-40's. Partly cloudy and cooler tomorrow. Highs around 60. 
~On Campus Today _ _. 
12:30 pm 
3-5:00 pm 
3:30pm 
4:00pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
6:30, 8:45, 
11:00 pm 7:00pm 
7:00pm 
7:30 pm 
:7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8:00 pm 
8:00pm 
8:00 pm 
9-11:00 pm 
career workshop, "decision making & values 'clarification," pat mccormack, 170 lemans hall, sponsored by career development center. 
autograph party, to announce publication of cleats written by george berry, john gelson and ken macafee, Iafortune ballroom. 
workshop, "women in music" by wendy and ellen britton, sponsored by women's opportunity week, stapleton lounge, lemans hall. 
seminar, "photoinitiated cationic polymerization­photosensitization of onium salts," prof. s. peter pappas, no. dakota state univ., conference room of radiation lab, sponsored by radiation lab and dept of chemistry. 
seminar, "quantitative cytochemical measurements of nuclear proteins and nucleic acids in plant host cells infected by obligate fungal pathogens," dr. 
p.k. bhattacharya, indiana univ. northwest, 278 galvin auditorium, sponsored by biology dept. 
lecture, "thoreau and the metaphor of the self," prof. ernest sandeen, library lounge, sponosored by english dept. 
k h f I b h II

movie, "slap shot," nig ts o co um us a , $1.00 admission, members free. 
movie, "from montgomery to memphis," in commemoration of the assassination of dr. martin luther king, jr., audio visual theater, sponsored by black studies program. 
film series, "the pirate" and "the detective story," carroll hall [smc], tickets $1. 
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. 
exhibition & talk, opening of exhibition and slide talk by greg huebner, painter, wabash college, isis gallery [old fieldhouse]. 
film series, "kabuki," basement of Iafortune, sponsored by dept. of modern language, no charge. 
meeting, ladies of nd business meeting, dr. thomas schlereth will give a slide presentation on history of notre dame and saint mary's college. 
concert, blues and contemporary folk concert, little theater, sponsored by wow, phone 284-4176 for tickets. 
"social ethics and christian freedom," rev. enda mcdonagh, st. patrick's college, maynooth, ireland, haggar hall auditorium, sponsored by theology dept. 
lecture, "the role of history in contemporary spanish-american fiction," prof. peter g. earle, univ. of pennsylvania, 110 law school building, sponsored by dept of modern and classical languages. 
nazz, performance by paul macellari, tim gallagher, paul kluck and denis murray, Iafortune. 

Israelis to gradually withdraw forces from southern Lebanon 
[AP]-Israel announced yester­day that it had started a gradual withdrawl from southern Lebanon occupied by Israeli forces in an air: land and sea strike against Pales­tinian guerrilla positions last month. 
The Israeli military command said a "significant thinning out of fo1·c:es'' had begun a week ago and that its soldiers were being re­placed by United Nations peace­keeping troops. But the command gave no details of the withdrawl, saying: ''The plan will be made 



r*r~:. ~~~~-verl 
Night Editor: Katie "Keaton" 
Kerwin Asst. Night Editor: Margie "Julia" Brassil 
layout Staff: Peggy ''Red­grave" Miller, Ed "Woody" Neuert, Joe "Robards" Bauer Sports Layout: Greg "Turning Point" Solman, Frank "Close Encounters" LaGrotta Typists: Gwen "Fonda" Cole­man, Sue "Star Wars" Scrib­ner, Tricia "Annie-Hall" Mee­han, Lisa "Looking For ... "' DiValerio Copy Reader: Jack "Oscar" Pizzolato 
Day Editor: Kathleen "You 
Light Up My Life" McEntee Night Controller: Mike "Mr. r.oodbar" Bodle 
LA.d layout: Beth "Bancroft'J' \Cutter 
c 

public only after the subject has 
been  finalized  with  the  lJ.N.  
authorities."  
In  New  York,  U.N.  Secretary­ 

General Kurt W aldheim said that of a planned 4,000 U.N. troops, about 1,800 have been deployed so far and a total of 3,000 will be in place by next week. Israel had said earlier it would withdraw when the 
U.N. force was fully deployed. 
Waldheim's report said 672 French troops, 195 Iranians, 224 Swedes and 690 Norwegians were in place so far between the Israelis and Palestinians. . Norweg.ian troops were arriving 10 Tel Av1v and gradually moving north from an Israeli army base to take up positions replacing Swe-
Nazz to present ND Jazz Band 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band and Jazz Combo, directed by Fr. George Wiskerchen, will perform a Collegiate Jazz Festival concert preview, tomorrow night from 9 
p.m. to midnight in the Nazz. 

ERRATUM 

The Saint Mary's computer cen­ter is not closed, as reported in yesterday's Observer. The compu­ter center is in operation, and has been throughout the coal shortage. The Observer regrets the error. 
Observer Editorial Board 
dish U.N. troops at an inland bridge across the Litani River. The l'iver is the northern limit of the Israeli operation that began March 15, occupied 500 square miles of southern Lebanon and officially f:nded March 21 with Israel's 
declaration· of a cease-fire. 
A convoy of 25 truckloads of Norwegian U.N. troops also traveled south from Beirut to take up positions on the Litani. 
In Romania, Israeli Foreign Min­ister Moshe Dayan discussed the Mideast situation with President Nicolae Ceausescu, who has ar­ranged past Arab-Israeli contacts, and it was reported that Palestinian guerrilla chief Yasar Arafat might fly to Romania after Dayan's visit ends. 
The Romanian news agency Agerpres said Dayan, who arrived Sunday night in the East European country, held talks with Ceausescu and Foreign Minister Stefan An­dlrei. Israeli-Egyptian negotiations have reached apparent stalemate over issues if the occupied Arab lands and the future of the Pales­tinians. 
In Beirut, the newspaper An Nahar said Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, was expected soon in Bucharest. But PLO spokesman said, "The trip is not certain yet." 
2for 1 specials. • • cut! shampoo/ blow-style on Mon., Tues., Wed. both only 
11.50 thru April 26th only with this ad! 

So bring a friend and come to where your hair is "best expressed, " with the soft, casual, easy-care look of to­day's most exciting new 

' Call 233-4 J J J, ext. 275 for an appointment. For expert hair removal service, come in for a free consultation. 
lllUTY SllON­SIJH flOOI-IOIIIJSON'S 

Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Grulev 
T-shlrt giveaway 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor 




GAIN JOB EXPERIENCE 
Campus radio station , WSND, is looking for a team of talented, self-confident and reliable people interested in gaining first hand experience in sales and advertising. Learn how the business world REALLY works by constant contact with local businesses. 
Interviews are Thursday and Friday, April 6 S 7. 
Call 283·7342 or 283·7425 for appointment. 
All sales positions are conducted on a 10% commission basis. 
You need not be a business major. 



Indiana mines operating; first time in four months 
TERRE HAUTE, IN [AP] -man for Amax Coal Co. 1 which has Regular coal shipments began 991 workers at five, mines and a moving in Indiana yesterday as fail-barge dock in Indiana. union mines operated at full pro­Many of the mines reopened at duction for the first time in almost midnight Friday when the constru­four months. ction pickets were first withdrawn. 
Full crews reported to all but one However, most miners didn't re­of Indiana's mines yesterday after turn work until yesterday because striking construction workers re­Saturday was a holiday commemo­moved their pickets over the week­rating the winning of the eight­end. hour day for miners and Sunday 
Larry Reynolds, president of was devoted mainly to gearing up United Mine Workers District 11, for production. said the only exception was the Reynolds said the miners, who Four Rivers mine near Lynnville, a went on strike Dec. 6, should start small independent operation with receiving their regular pay­about two dozen miners. That checks sometime next week. Some mine remained closed because the miners already have received $100 company had yet to sign the for returning to work on the first contract negotiated last month with shift after the contract was ratified the Bituminous Coal Operators March 24. Association. 
"Right now they're more an­The contract did not automati­xious to get paid than anythingcally apply to the mine since it isn't else," Reynolds said. 
a member of the BCOA, but Some coal was shipped fromReynolds said a company official non-union mines during the strike was flying in last night to sign the under protection of state police and agreement. 
the Indiana National Guard, butConstruction workers, whose oic­those escorts were withdrawn twokets delayed the miners' returii to weeks a week ago.
work for a week, are to vote today on their new contract with the Matyka said full shipments from Association of Bituminous Contrac­Amax mines probably won't begin tors. Reynolds said easy ratifica­until the end of the week, since 
tion was expected from the 450 much of the coal still has to be UMW construction workers in Ind­broken from the ground and load­iana. 
ed. 

"By Wednesday, hopefully "I would think probably by everything will be back to normal," Friday we ought to be able to see added Doug Matyka, a spokes-some coal moving," he said. 
March through Memphis honors memory of King 
[AP] -Thousands of persons are The Rev. James Lawson, a 
to march in downtown Memphis, leader of the 1969 sanitation work­
TN. in what is expected to be the ers strike and now pastor of 
largest observance in the country of Holman United Methodist Church 
the lOth anniversary ofthe death of in Los Angeles, will lead the 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. commemoration in Memphis. 
The march. sponsored by the In Atlanta. Caretta King, theAmerican Federation of State, civil rights leader's widow, MartinCounty and Municipal Employees Luther King, Sr., and other mem­Local 1733. is one of several bers of the family will lay a wreathactivities in Memphis and other on King's tomb. A family spokes­cities marking the date the civil man said a brief statement will be 
rights leader was shot on a motel issued. 
balcony while in Memphis in A march was planned in Gads­support of a sanitation strike. 
den, AL, to honor King and toJames Earl Ray pleaded guilty to bring attention to demands among,killing King and is serving a some blacks that six policemen be . 99-year sentence at Brushy Moun­suspended. A country grand jury tain State Prison at Petros. He cl-::ared the six in the fatal shooting later recanted his confession. 
of a 27.-year-old black following a high-speed chase. 
Carter to cancel A memorial tribute was held in 
Cleveland at the City Hall rotunda
plans for bomb yesterday and an ecumenical 
memorial service is scheduled for 
NEW YORK [AP] -President today at the Trinity Episcopal 
Carter has decided production of Church. All of the city's more than 
the neutron bomb would not fit 800 clergymen were invited for 
with his goals of nuclear disarma-today's service to be conducted by 
ment and has decided against Bi~hop John H. Burt of the 
producing the controversial wea-Episcopal Diocese of Cleveland. 
pon, the New York nmes reported
in today's editions. The observances in Memphis 
The newspaper, quoting uni-were scheduled to begin last night 
dentified '"administration offi-with a service at the Mason Temple 
cials," said Carter's decision, Chureh of God in Christ Church, 
which may be announced later this where King delivered his last 
week. was made in part because he speech. From there, a group 
hoped the ,Soviet Union would in .· marched the Lorraine Motel, where 
tum show restraint in deployment · King was shot, for a24-hour vigil 
of new nuclear weapons. beginning at midnight. 
The Times said some administra-. The downtown march was to tion officials are upset at Carter's begin at the Clayborn Temple AME decision and will try to persuade Church at noon and last about four him to change his mind and to set hours. aside production of the bomb I indefinitely, rather than cancel it I outright. But, tj'he newspaper said, the same offici~Is say they do not have much hope of changing the 
Film biogr~phy 

president's mi"d. The neutroll! bomb is a small 
portrays King

warhead that would be placed on 
Lance missiles and artillery shells. 
It produces twi~ the deadly radia­The movie From Montgomery to 
tion of a conveqtional nuclear bomb Memphis will be shown tonight at 7 
but less than I a tenth as much p.m. in the Audio Visual ',l'heatre in 
explosive power, heat and fallout. the Center for Continuing Educa­
This means ti)at bomb can kill tion. The film, which porrays Dr. 
people while causing little damage Martin Luther King, Jr.•s leader­
to buildings. ship of the non-violent protest 
The warhead : was designed to movement against racial, exploita­
replace the approximately 7,000 tion in the United States•. is being 
nuclear warheads now deployed in present by the Black Studies Pro­
Europe. gram. 
Tuesday, April 4, 1978 
BOOKSTORE PREPARATIONS: Aspiring lronman participantsplay hoops as a springlike day hit South Bend. [Photo by Ron Szot] 
Notre Dame team rea-ches national debate tournament 
ity in Dayton, OH on March 16-18, National Tournament. A team mayby Bridget Berry 
Senior Jim Maniace and sopho­Jones and Maniace tied for second, be chosen in the first round by the 
winning six out of eight rounds. National Debate Tournament Com­
more Jim Jones will represent Notre Dame at the National Debate Teams from Augustana College mittee, it may qualify in a district Tournament April 21 to 24 in in Rock Island, IL, Bowling Green tournament, or be chosen for a 
in Ohio, and Wayne State in second round bid. 
Denver, CO. The debate team 
Detroit, also placed. Maniace point 
considers this a major accomplish­Teams selected in the first round 
ment since Notre Dame has not ed out that all these schools give usually have won 90-percent of debate scholarships, while ND does their debates. 16 teams are chosen
qualified for the National Tourna­ment in the last 13 years. not. for the first round. 
Previously, at Citadel College in
The debaters will argue both In Region Five, debate teams affirmatively and negatively on the Charleston, SC, on Feb. 24 and 25, compete for a spot in the Nationals resolution: ''That United States Maniace and Jones also won the in a qualifier tournament. This law enforcement agencies should Second Speaker Award by accumu­year, 20 teams competed with only 
lating the second highest total of
be given significantly greater free­four going on to the National 
individual points. In the Junior Tournament.
dom in the investigation and/or division, Dame A may a
prosecution of felony crimes." two Notre fresh­team receive second "The quality of information and men, Ken Krist! and Marty Cani­round bid to the National Tourna­gan, placed second. They were ment. The National Tournament
extent of rtsearch and preparation, 
beaten the round
as well as intelligence and skill are in final by Committee, according to Maniace, 
Northeastern Oklahoma State. 
essential for success.'' according to chooses several teams which tPey 
Maniace. Butler hosted a debate tourna­believe deserve to compete in !the Maniace and Jones will be 
ment in which Notre Dame partici­Nationals, but for some reason: did competing against some of the pated on March 2,3 and 4. The not qualify. This eliminates · the most respected debate teams in the tournament has traditionally been chance of injustice due to judgingr country. Among those who will be considered a warm-up event for the bias, sickness or other extenuating 
District Tournament, according to
represented are the Universities of circumstances. Maniace explaine~. 
Maniace . 
Alabama, Harvard, Northwestern, Maniace is confident in the Notre
Jones and Maniace lost in the
Southern California and Redlands, Dame team. He cited the h.;lp
Octave finals at Butler, but Man­
CA. 
received from Wians and the two
iace again won the Second Speaker
The entire team, coached by Bill assistant coaches Chris Jensen, a

Award. Kristl and junior Tom
Wians, a graduate student in third year law student and Terry
Lucid performed well although they 
philosophy, has shown great im­
did not qualify for the elimination Pell, a philosophy graduate stu­provement this year, Maniace said. 
dent.
rounds with a 3-5 record. 
He stated that ND has become well Jones said that he and Maniacerespected in Region Five, which "Our performance gave ND a 
boost in the districts," Maniace are well prepared for the Nationalincludes Michigan. Indiana, Dlinois Tournament and are determined tocommented.
and Ohio. In the qualifying District Tourna­
Maniace explained that there are make one more "breakthrough" ment held at Wright State Univers-three options for getting into the for the ND debate team. 

Pb'IUIIING liMY OF T1t1 NAliCIII'I ...aT CCII LEGE JAZZ CIIIOUPI
~. lltll\.J'l 1 Mlal~. Q)BJI, 8 JUDGES: HUBERT LAWS FLUTE LEW TABACKIN SAXOPHONf 
LOUIE BELLSON DRUMS LARRY RIDDLEY lASS 
JOHN LEWIS PIANO 
I 
I

OAN MORGANSTERN CRmc 7=30 FRIDAY NIGHT $4.50 WEEKEND PASS J2=J5 SATURDAY $2.50 STUDENT $7.50 
6:30 SATURDAY NIGHT $4.00 NON-STUDENT $8.50 
I;Gteftwl.fl (!t(f.fil!tqe~ i 
{ 



UJW3a&3lt~t!J ejf ~~u m~me 



the observer Tuesday, April4, 1978 
In space 




Russians race to set up ~colonies 
SPACE CENTER, Houston [API -Embarrassed by American moon successes, the Soviet Unions is concentrating on becoming the first nation to establish permanent space colo nics, says an expert on the Russian space program. 
"Space craft will orbit the earth with men and women working there for long periods of time such that many of them consider them­selves permanent residents with no intentions of coming back to earth," said James Oberg. 
''They will raise their children there. For the most part it will be a 
Tryouts being held for cheerleaders, leprechaun 
The 1978 Notre Dame cheer­leader tryouts are now being held in the ACC pit. The first cut was made last night, reducing the number of female candidates to 24. 
The second cut, for both male and female hopefuls, will be Wed­nesday night, with the final cut to a squad of six male and six female cheerleaders Friday night. 
Any ND-SMC student is eligible to try out. The only requirement is that they must have two semesters of school remaining. Judges were invited from outside the university including other college cheer­leaders, high school cheerleading coaches, and local dance instruc­tors. 
The first clinic, held Sunday, was an introductory meeting. Required 

Wayne has good chance of surviving heart operation 
BOSTON [API -Actor John Wayne underwent a three-hour operation yesterday to replace a defective heart valve, and was listed in satisfactory condition, physicians at Massachusetts Gen­eral Hospital said. 
The operation, described as 
"uneventful," involved replacing 
the 70-year-old actor's ruptured 
mitral valve with a similar valve 
from a pig, doctors said. 
Dr. Mortimer J. Buckley, who 
headed the surgical team, said 
Wayne "Looks very excellent, but 
we have a couple of days of worry 
before us." 
The ruptured valve, between the left atrium and left ventricle of the heart, was letting blood leak into Wayne's lung. Fourteen years ago, Wayne lost one of his lungs to cancer. 
Dr. W. Gerald Austin, chief of 
surgery at Massachusetts 9eneral, 
said the pig valve ''takes over the 
normal function of the natural 
valve." 
"I would guess he will be able to do everything he has been able to do in the past, except better," Austin said. 
Tavis to give 
lecture at seminar 
Dr. Lee A. Tavis, C.R. Smith 
Professor of Business Administra­
tionat Notre Dame, will discuss 
"Multinational Managers and 
Economic Justice: The Produc­
tivity-Poverty Choices" at the Beta 
Gamma Sigma national seminar at 
Arizona State University. He is one 
of six distinguished scholars invi­
ted to participate by the national 
honor society for business adminis­
tration students. 
Tavis will focus on a values 
issues facing today's multinational 
managers. including the important 
role of multinational firms in 
maximizing worldwide producti­
vity, as well as their potential 
contribution to alleviating poverty. 
He will also evaluate various 
corporate strategies in light of 
these goals criteria. and discuss the 
extent of the manager's responsibi­
lity to meet both, particularly as 
they relate to shareholder's objec­
tives and desires. 
stunts, dances, and routines were taught. Two additional clinics will be held Tuesday and Thursday nights. 
Lerechaum tryouts are also being held along with the cheerleader tryouts. Each candidate is required to present an original 2-3 minute routine, a short speech, and a performance of the Irish Jig. 
Final candidates for both cheer­leader and leprechaum positions are required to have a personal interview as a basis for selection in addition to the performance tryout. 
All ND-SMC students were eli­gible to tryout for a position on the cheerleading squad. The only requirement, being that they had at least two semesters of school remaining. 
closed system. They'll grown their own food arid make their own oxygen. I see that happening within 15 years." 
he said the United States might make a decision in three or four years, after the space shuttle program is operating, to build space outposts, too. But by then the Russians will have five or six years' experience, he said. 
"You'll build as many earth-like homes as possible up there," Oberg said in an interview. ''Look at these giant apartment buildings we have now where people live and 
Another physician, Koman W. DeSanctis, said Wayne had a 90 percent chance of surviving the operation. If all goes well, the doctor added, Wayne will be out of the hospital in about two weeks and able to resume an active life in three months. 
Wayne, who has appeared in more than 200 movies during a career that has spanned half a century, came to Massachusetts General Hospital last Wednesday on the recommendation of doctors in Newport Beach, Calif. DeSanctis said tests in Boston confirmed the diagnosis of a faulty mitral valve. 

One of Wayne's sons, Patrick, said his father decided to have the operation now because it was convenient. "He felt this was a good time so he will be able to work again in the fall. 


Workshop to aid clergy in counseling al,coholics 
"Alcoholism: A Family Affair" is the title of a day-long workshop for the clergy to be held Thursday at the Fatima Retreat House. 
Co-sponsored by the Alcoholism Council of St. Joseph County and the United Religious Community, the workshop will focus on the latest information and treatment of the effects of alcoholism on the family. The workshop is being planned jointly with the Oaklawn Center in Elkhart County where the same program will be presented tomorrow for clergy in that county. 

The steering committee for the two county workshops consists of Rev. Kent Borgaard, Teresa Kline, Rev. Bernard' Palka, Thomas Rudy and Fr. John H. Wilson. 
''Alcoholism is a disease which disrupts the lives of the whole family of the alcoholic. The spouse and children may become caught up in a cycle of denial, social isolation and emotional upheaval," Wilson stated. 
"The clergy are in a unique position to help. The clergyman is often the first outside person to whom the family turns. He has the potential to help the family begin l~aming about alcoholism and be­gm recovery through referral to such resources as AI-Anon and Ala-Teen," Wilson added. 
"We hope this conference will offer the clergy help in counseling the alcoholic and especially the famil , " he concluded. 
ne:ed posters in a hurry? 

only $10.00 203 n. main Downtown SoBend 289-6977 
work in the same building. It's an artificial environment and you raise families thert~. It would be little different in space." 
As for children in space, Oberg said, "Pioneers in American brought thcri.r children with them and faced far ·more hardships than the people in space will." · 
Oberg is a lecturer for the America.n Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and a computer specialil;t at the Johnson space Center. He is regarded by col­leagues as an expert on the Russian space p1rogram. 
However, he emphasized that his remarks. on the Russians are strict­ly his~·n and based on his person­al inten:st and study of their space effort. 
Oberg said the Russians were stunned. by losing the race to the moon. Rather than admit they had lost, tltey scraped their moon program and embarked instead on an allou1t space colonization effort. 
It paid off this year with a historic linkup in space of three Soviet space craft. he said. 



NEtw ruling made on evidence u~;ed in trying rape cases 
INDIANAPOLIS [API-Evidence of past sexual conduct may be admit­ted during a rape trial if it suggests the alkged victim has lied about similar matters before, the Indiana Court of Appeals said yesterday. 
Ruling on a case tried in Monroe Circuit Court. the appeals panel said the defense should at least have been given the chance to investigate a letter suggesting that a woman claiming she was raped had unjustly accused other men of raping her. 
The l•!tter was not protected by Indiana's 1971 Rape Shield law, the appeals court said, because it "goes directly to the victim's credibility, not her history of sexual conduct." Prosecutors had argued that the allegations in the letter could not be used in the trial because the rape shield law pro­hibits ~my reference before a jury to a victim's past sexual conduct or reputation. 
The case reversed the 1977 rape conviction of Merle Lee Hall and granted him a new trial. 
Court records showed that on the last day of his trial, hall asked Judge James R. Cotner for a continuance so he could investigate the letter allegedly written by the father and stepmother of the rape victim.. 
The letter. to the girl's natural 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

mother, said the victim had under­gone psychiatric treatment for a compulsion to lie and for sexual problems. It also said the victim had falsely threatened to "tell everyone" that her father, one of her brothers-in-law and her brother all had raped her. 
The appeals court, in a majority decision by Chief Judge Jonathan 
J. Robertson, agreed with the state that the letter itself was hearsay and could not have been admitted at trial. But the court said Hall should 
investigate the allegations in the letter and make arrangements for the fathe1·. stepmother and mother of the vit:tim to testify about the letter's contents. 
The court also said the state should have informed Hall of the letter before going to trial , even if there was no intention of using it as evidence. The prosecutor failed to disclose the letter before trial because the chief investigating officer had thought it was not important enough to turn over the 
This one 
is for 

Ladies only (?) 
Dress up Ladies and come on down_ 


---'----­
.... 


Korean businessman admits contributions to U.S. campaigns 
W ASBINGTON [AP] -Korean rice deal Tongsun Park, saying his career was an "American success story," publicly testified yesterday that he gave more than $850,000 to selected members of Congress. 
However, he denied -as he has repeatedly -that he was acting as an agent of the South Korean government when he made those contributions. 
And although acknowledging he had made mistakes, he swore that he engaged in no illegal conspiracy to buy influence for his country or for himself. 
"I want to tell you: What I have done in Washington constitutes an American success story on a small scale," he said. 
Park gave his first public testi­mony in an appearance before the House ethics committee. The hearing was h-;ld in the same room where the House Judiciary Com­mittee voted impeachment resolu­tions agianst former President Richard M. Nixon in 1974. 
Park, who said he made more than $9 million in rice sales to South Korea. testified he gave as much as $247,000 to former Rep. Otto E. Passman, D-IA, who has been indicted for alleged conspiracy with Park to deny the United States a corruption-free government. But he noted that until 1974, it was completely legal for a foreigner to had enjoyed a close personal relationship, "much like that be­tween two close brothers." 
Responding to questions from special counsel Leon Jaworski, Park said Hanna did support him in his efforts to win and keep his lucrative post as a commission agent for American rice exporters. 
"But whatever we did together was personal and never pre-ar­ranged," Park said. "If I asked him to do something, it was as a friend.'' 
Park's insistence that he was never an agent of the Korean government is significant. The ethics committee is trying to learn whether any members of the House broke House rules of the law by taking money from a man whom they knew was the agent of a foreign government. 
Park testified on contributions to 30 politicians. and he confirmed past reports that he funneled $20,000 to former President Rich­ard M. Nixon's 1972 re-election campaign through Rep. William E. Minshall, R-OH. 
He said he also donated as much as an additional $36,000 to Min-shall. 
The larger contributions 

Here are some of the larger alleged contributions whose details were made public in Park's testi­mony: 
Park testified that former Reep Cornelius E. Gallagher of New Jersey received a total $211,000, including the forgiveness of the remaining $130,000 on a $250,000 loan. In addition, Park said Gallagher got cash payments of $13,000 in 1970, $59,000 in 1971 and $19,000 in 1972. 
Park said former Rep. Edwin Edwards, D-LA, now governor of Louisiana, received a total $20,000, three-quarters of which were made in payments to his wife and brother. 
Former Rep. Nick Galifianakis, D-NC, got a $500 credit to enter­tain his constituents at Park's Georgetown Club in 1970, Park testified. He said he gave Galifian­akis $10,000 when Galifianakis ran for Congress two years later. 
Park said he sent a $5,000 check to Rep. John Breaux, D-IA, through an intermediary in 1972 but doesn't know whether he ever got it. Breaux has denied received such a check. 
Park said he made a $2,000 cash payment to former Rep. John J. Rooney. 
He also said he gave a wedding present in 1975 of$1,000 in Korean currency to Rep. Charles Wilson, D-CA. Park said he has been told that Wilson asked an officer in one of Park's companies to exchange the money for American dollars. 

~~ISH AND A PRAYER l: These outfielders approach the ball an d1fferent ways-[1] eyes closed, glove protecting the face· and 
[2] ball away from the body, acrobatic. Method 2 prevail~ on this play [Photo by Ron Szot] 
contribute to U.S. political cam-fF=='================~=====================================f! 
paigns. 
A patriotic buslnessmlUI 
He said that while he did hope to influence congressional opinion in favor of his country, he was doing so simply as a patriotic and aspiring South Korean business­man. 
Park acknowledged giving a total $262.000 to former Rep. RichardT. Hanna. D-CA. who recently plead­ed guilty to a one-count conspiracy indictment centering around his relationship with the South Korean. 
Park said he hadn't conspired with Hanna. either. He said he and the former California congressman 
Girls' camp needs volunteers 
The Michiana Council of Camp­fire Girls' day camp. Camp Tawan­chi. is looking for volunteers who would be interested in teaching craft classes. or donating any other talents which they may have. 
The camp will be held from July 
10-July  21  at  Bendix  Woods.  
Volunteers  may  call  Sharon  at  
234-4145.  

Belgians honor NO chemist's birthdate 
The tiny community of Hansbeke in East Flanders, Belgium, is laying plans to observe the tOOth birth date this summer of a former resident, Fr. Julius A. Nieuwland, the Notre Dame chemist who discovered the process that led to the development of synthetic rubber. Nieuwland died in 1936. 
Belgian museum officials are working with local cultural organi­zations in preparation for the observance. Material from the Nieuwland files at Notre Dame will be included in the displays. 
It was on November 2, 1931, that the Notre Dame chemistry teacher and scientists of the E.l. duPont Company announced to the Ameri­can Chemical Society the new discovery of neoprene. As durable as natural rubber, neoprene was also resilient, good-weathering, flame resistant and resistant to ozone, oil, air and many chemicals. 
Many noted scientists credited the discovery with helping the United States and her allies outlast the acute World War D rubber shortage when Japan took posses­sion of Asian plantations. 
Nieuwland Science HaJJ was erected in 1952 to honor the famous chemist's memory. 

THE NEW SPECIALS ..... -¥ 
.. ~ 
.. 

presented by the .. 
.. t 

LffiRARY  


..
..
.. 
...
\.. 
t
.. 
..
..
..
.. 

TRANSFUSION TUESDAY 
\ Bloody Mary special 50c 
.. 7 .dni 1f..
¥-..... nn te 1f.. \ 1f.. 
~ )(.. WEN (daze) )(.. J 
\ . 14oz Draft special 50c 
\LARGEST DRAFT IN TOWN 
¥-7 ..... midnite Jt.. 
\ t
. )(.. 
.. )(..
THURSDAY 
\ t 
7 & 7 special 50c
. .. .
\ I 
1-10 
\t
\.t
.. 
• 
.. 
•

• 


Tuesday, April 4, 1978
r : 
byMkhael Molinelli 
1!.-foard of old silver dollars 
discovered in Treasury

WASIDNGTON [API -If you yearn to own a dollar that has increased in value instead of depre­ciating, you may soon have a chance to buy one from the government. 
In fact, something over one million chances. 
The General Services Adminis­tration, the government's house­ke<eping agency, wants to dispose of what is left of a hoard of silver dollars that was discovered in the Treasury's vaults in 1964 when si:lver coinage was discontinued. 
General Services Adminstrator Jay Solomon asked a House bank­ing subcommittee yesterday to approve legislation that would sim­plify the proceedings for selling the coins. 

)~ccused Gestapo agent faces possible deportation 
CIDCAGO [AP) -Judge Julius Hoffman turned down a motion for acquittal yesterday in the case of accused Gestapo agent Frank W al­rus by saying "the defendant did commit war crimes, was a member of the Gestapo ... and concealed 
Murder suspect released; police lacked evidence 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-Peter Mark Jones, the Beverly Hills handyman who was booked for investigation of two Hillside Strangler murders, was released yesterday for lack of evidence, Police Chief Daryl Gates said. 
Gates had called Jones' arrest last Thursday a "major break" in the baffling series of 13 killings since last September. 
Jones, 37, was silent as he left police headquarters. His lawyer, Albert Johnson of Boston, said only that "my client is relieved to be free." 
Jones was booked for investiga­
' tion of murder in the deaths of the fifth and sixth victims, Jill Bar­comb, 18, of New York, and Kathleen Robinson; 17, of Los Angeles. His arrest came after his child­hood f~nd, George Francis Sham­shak, told police about at least two strangler killings. Investigators said Shamshak had implicated Jones. 
Bored juror stays home 
DETROIT [API -A bored juror derailed a narcotic trial by staying home. . 
"I just didn't feel like going in Friday," said Aubrey E. Nolte, who lives in the Detroit suburb of Allen Park. A search for him failed, forcing U.S. District Judge Ralph M. Freeman to declare a 
mistrial. 1 When tbld of the mistrial, Nolte said, "That's too bad." His 30-day just stint ends April 14, but Nolte said he, didn't plan to go to the courthouse yesterday. either. 
Though court officers reported to 1 play lighting and outdoor flood, the judge that they could not find parking lot and advertising light­Nolte on Friday, he said ~e was Iing." 
home all day. He could be ctted for contempt of court. . 
"I'm in the habit of worlung outsi~e." said Not~~·~ .a pr~~ce termmal worker. Bemg mstde was quite a change for me." 
Nolte, 47, sat through a week-long trial an~ deliberated with eleven others Jurors for three days before deciding it was too much trouble to spend any more time on the fate of Thomas Reynolds, 21, of Detroit. 
_Reynold~ w.as a.ccused of p~s~s­stng and dtstnbutmg phencychdtne PCP, an animal tranquilizer that acts as a hallucinogen in humans. 
"We have been unable to find evidence to support the staments that Mr. Shamshak made," Gaes said at a news conference yester­day. "We find that it would be highly improper to continue to hold him in custody." 
Gates told reporters yesterday that Shamshak "very definitely is still a prime suspect." 
Construction nr~iners vote on proposed contract 
INDIANAPOIJS (AP] -As strik­
ing construction miners voted on a 
new contract today, the last vestige 
of Indiana electrical curtailments 
was gone. 

The Public Service Commission 
(PSC) decided yesterday to wipe 
out the remaining cutback on 
outdoor lighting. It has eased the 
restriction last week from the 
original 100 percent to 40 percent 
,lt the same time it eliminated all 
curtailments for businesses, 
schools and homes. 

Yesterday's order, which also 
ended the 25 percent voluntary 
cutback for customers of Hoosier 
Energy, followed the, last of nine 
weekly hearings to evaluate impact 
of the strike by United Mine Workers (UMW). UMW production workers ended their strike a week ago, and consti'Uction miners voted today on their proposed contract. UMW District 11 President Larry Rey­nolds said in Terre Haute he 
expected a heavy vote in favor of ratification. The PSC announced, "The pub-lie interest no longer compels mandatory curtaiJment in the use of electricity for show window, dis-
In the same order, the commis­, sion cleared the way for an end to the voluntary 25 percent electric curtailments imposed on customers 1 1 of five of the state's six largest utilities during the coal strilte. The 1 sixth, Northern Indiana PUblic Service Co., never was subject to 1 state-ordered curtailments because \ its coal stockpile never fell below 
the SO-day level. Indiana utilities now are receiv­
ing more coal each day than they 1burn during a 24-hour period, the .commission said. ·psc Chairman Larry J. Wallace 
scheduled more hearings on strilte­
r·~lated problems for May 22 and 
September. But he said the 
commission will grant petitions to 
lift voluntary curtailments without 
a hearing. 
Hoosier Energy, with more than a SO-day supply of coal on hand, petitioned for and was granted permission to lift voluntary curtail­ments. 
A similar request from Indiana &: Michigan (I&M) which reported only a 42-day coal reserve, was denied. despite utility assurances that all customer demands can be met. 
I&M's "fuel supplies are still dangerously close to the 40-day supply level at which mandatory curtailment is required," the commission said. 

NICKlES 
COCKTAIL SPECIAL MON-THURS 4..... 6 PM -t-DAILY SPECIALS
1 
I 

TODAVIS SPECIAL 
M~C~~t~~LOB kb<f~~~H 
2 ~~ERtF~~~~ OF ONE 
information when he obtained U.S. citizenship." 
W alms, a 55-year-old retired Southwest Side laborer, has been a1~cused by eleven prosecution witnesses of killing Jews in Poland during World War II. He faces possible loss of his citizenship and d'eportation if Hoffman finds him guilty of lying to U.S. officials when be obtained his citizenship in 1970. 
Hoffman, 82, dealt the defense several other setbacks during the first day of defense testimony. He rdused to allow Walrus to read the back of a photograph because he said. only the front was in evidence. He threatened to remove W alus 

Although the coins are legal tender, using them to pay the rent is not advised. They're worth far 
more than the value stamped on their face. Solomon said the GSA has about 4,200 silver dollars dated 1880, 
19.000 dated 1881 and 31.500 dated 1885. Previous sales of coins of this type brought minimum bids of $60 each. 
There are also 195,000 coins dated 1883 and 430,000 dated 1884, both of which previously brought $30 bids when coins of this type were offered. And there are 300,000 coins of various years in less than perfect condition. Coins of this type previously sold for $15. 
The earlier sales were made 
from the witness stand and told defense attorney Robert Korenkie­wicz he was getting "awfully close" to contempt of court. 
During lunch recess. Korenkie­wicz claimed that Hoffman had fallen asleep during Walus' testi­mony. He did not say whether he would object to Hoffman's re sponse to his motion for acquittal. 
W alus was the first of nine scheduled defense witnesses to take the stand. He testified that he was forced from his home in Poland in 1939 and taken to farms in Germany where he was an unpain farm laborer until American sol­diers captured Germany. 
Hoffman came to national atten­tion in 1969 when he presided at the stormftrial of antiwar activists charged iri connection with rioting during the 19j68 Democratic Na­tional Convention in Chicago. During the trial, he cited defen­dants and their lawyers for con­tempt 175 times. Five defendants were convicted of crossing state lines to incite rioting. All seven were acquitted of conspiracy. 
Autograph party celebrates novel 
Juniper Press is throwing an autograph party to celebrate the publication of aeats. a novel written by Notre Dame students George Berry. John Gelson and Ken MacAfee. today from 3-5 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

Juniper Press is composed of students in Prof. ];;Iizabeth Christ­man's "Book Publishing" class. During this semester. the students selected, edited and prepared the aeats manuscript for publication. 
The party is open to the public. 
Refreshments will be served. 

by mail. ~xtsttng law requires that this procedure be followed in disposing of the remainder, even though interest in buying the coins und(:r the old method appears to have fallen off, Solomon said. 
The GSA proposes to offer the remaining coins for sale at fixed prices, probably at or close to the previous minimum bids, on a first-come, first-served basis. There would be a limit of up to 100 coins per person in the 1880, 1881 and 1885 categories. 
The dollars involved in the past and future sales were produced for only 13 years at the Carson City, NV, mint and were designed by George T. Morg¥1. They are known to collectors as Morgan dollars. 
It was long thought that these, along with other silver dollars, had been melted down in this century to meet World War I demands for silver. 
But when Treasury stocks were checked in 1964, nearly three million coins, most of them uncir­culated Carson City silver dollars, were discovered. 
Pre-Med club sponsors lecture 
A slide presentation and talk on osteopathic medicine will be given tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 123 Nieuwland by the Student Osteo­pathic Medical Association of Chi­cago. The presentation, to which all interested students are invited, is being sponsored by the Pre-Med club. 
sophomores 

IIEnEI liFE IFTEI 

Army ROTC offers you a no-obligation, six-week summer leadership pro­~~ram at Fort Knox, Ky. 
You'll earn about $450 and an opportunity to l:lnter advanced ROTC next fall. That means extra income ($2,500 during your last two years of college) and leads to your commission as an Army officer. 
Army ROTC also offers you new career opportuni­ties after college -part­time as a leader in Re­serve while employed in the civilian community or ·full-time on active duty. 
For details and an inter­view appointment, contact: 
Major John J. Macneil Room 236 In the ROTC Building 
<lf' call 6264 --6265 --7332 
IIEIIIYIIR 
Ill·YEll 
FIIIIE
-IR. 




------------~~------------------~--------------~---------------------------­
Tony Pace :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::T~u~es~d~av~,~A~pr~219~7a~~:W:~iJ.~iiiiiiiiiiil~· 
,. The National League West G) 
"" • !
;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:::::::::;:;::=:=:=::::;::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=:::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;::=:=: Ba~eba/1 Prev1e~ 

[continued from p. 8] 
Houston Astros-The Astros are one of the unknown commodities in the 
National League. They started to play like gangbusters in the second half 
of 1977 and they could continue playing well in 1978. 
Houston's star player is centerfielder Cesar Cedeno, who recently signed a life-time contract with the Astros. The teams's fortune last season rode with Cedeno. He had a terrible first half of the year and his batting 
average sunk below the .200 mark. After the All-Star break, he got hot and so did the team. He wound up the season with a .279 average. Cedeno is capable of a .300 average with 20 or so homers and 90 rbis. If he has such a year, the Astros will flourish. 
Other key players in the Houston lineup are Bob Watson, Enos Cabell, Jose Cruz and Joe Ferguson. Watson's average has slumped in recent years, but his run production has increased. Cabell was tried at shortstop this spring but the experiment was unsuccessful so he should be back at third base on opening day. Rodger Metzger, another good field, no hit shortstop, should take over for Cabell. Cruz and Ferguson are both experienced players who should provide the extra offense which the· Astros are looking for. 
The Astro mound corps is young and inexperienced. The biggest houston hurler, both in stature and importance to the team is James Rodney Richard. The 6-8 Richard won 18 games last year and had an earned run average under 3.00. He will be aided by youngsters like Mark Lemongello, Floyd Bannister and Joaquin Andujar. If this trio can improve upon their combined record of 28-31, the Astros should be in business. Given their minor league and collegiate records, an improved pitching staff is likely.
**********
San Francisco Giants~The more stable of the two Bay Area baseball teams is just beginning to benefit from the problems of harlie Finley's A's. Not only have they acquired star pitcher Vida Blue from Finley's depleted ranks, they also stand to gain fans as Bay Area people give up on the hapless, and possibly moving, Oakland franchise. 
Blue will be joining a fine young pitching staff which is headed by ''The Count", John Montefusco, and Ed Halicki. Jim Barr should be the fourth starter. The bullpen is well stocked with Gary Lavelle and Randy Moffitt. Lavelle is coming off a great 1977 campaign while Moffitt looks to return to his 1976 form. 
For the second year in a row, the phrase "M&M boys" will again have meaning in San Francisco. One of the M's, Willie McCovey, returned home last year and easily won the Comeback Player of the Year Award. McCovey, who hit 28 homers and batted .280 at the age of 39, may still have another year or two in him. The new "M", Bill Madlock, didn't disappoint Giant fans after he had been obtained from the Cubs, as he batted over .300 for the fourth consecutive year. Add to these two 

TONITE: Paul Macellari 
Tim Gallagher

·9-11 pm 
Paul Kluck 
Denis Murray 

COMING WED CJF Preview Concert with the ND Jazz Band 
f NOTICES 
;:;: :..~~.~ Re~~~~~~~o~~es 
Call 8086 :;:; 
~~~~ Oiss;t:rt~n-;:-~;;;;;;~;;!;~;;tc~tvped. 
... IBM Selectric II Linda's Letters 287 
:t:~OuALmiYPING?&-;;-~~
:;:;Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM ;:;:Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page::::minimum. Call 232..()898 "When you ···· t th B t" R $3 00 per page:;:; wan e es esumes: · · t ENVELOPE-STUFFINGScHEMEsEX­:;:;POSED. 2 page report free. Practics, ;:;: 2130-3A N.W. Fillmore, Corvallis, OR 
·.l!.~ ---:....;;---=:~~E@r;~'=~::: 
Lo;t":T~~;;In;l~ment;-;;i;;(sR-51
-II) from Hayes-Healy. Phone 3488. 
Lo;t":-Cia~-;-~;~-g-;;;;Gt;;dH~;
and Alumni before break. Reward. Call Dave 1582. 
Lost: Oran~e ski gloves in green section 
:~:~,:~:.: ~~"" 
pr. slacks, 1 pair dress shoes, and 7 silk shirts. Left in C-1 lot on Tuesdayafternoon. Please call John at 3807. 
Found:s;;t;2k;;%1o;nd"'beto~br~k. 
Call Observer office to identify. 
Lost: 1 Texas Instrument SR-11 cal­
:~;~ 1 bdrm. apart to sublet for summer. ;:;:Security, tennis ct., pool. Good terms. ·:·:Call 288-7258 
~;~; -----"---------­
:;::Fine houses in good neighborhoods
:;:;(Portage and Angela area). Reasonable :::: rents.For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact :;:;Joseph Gatto 234-6688. :·:· ---------------­
~~~~ 2rooms for rent. Summer school. $40 mo. 
::::233-1329. ·:·: ------------­!:~.!:~. MHaparyplyouBirthday! Out of office and 22 at 
:;:;the same time. CELEBRATE!!! :;:: Rosemary ;:;: LOST& FOUND .;.·~\ost: Tape recorded from E line. Hefty;:;:reward. No questions. Call 3308. •..• :!::Lost: Taken or borrowed from ACC: one 
;:;:blue faced Seiko watch. Great sentimen­;:;;tal value, so great reward. Call 8833. 
!1\ost: TI-SR-SO Calcu;;,L;-;; ;:;:before spring break. Please call 7801 if 
Found: To the blond who lost her contact lens at NCAA finals in st. Louis. 1found it. Call Mike 1595. 
Today Is Marylou Walsh's birthday. Call her and help her celabratel 
WANTED 

Needed, 2girls for summer housemates. Call 4-1-4034. 
Need riders to Cleveland (or area) on
April 5 or 6 and back to South Bend on 
Sunday, April 9. Call 4-1-4001. 
GAIN JOB EXPERIENCE IN SALES MANAGEMENT!! WSND has positions open for '78-79. Interviews are April 6 & 
7. Call 7342 for appointment. 20 percent 
commission on all sales. . 
Two need ride to Ch1cago leaving Thurs, afternoon. 4-6. Call Mike 1811 or at 177£. 
Please n-;;J-ride t;~gh~~;--;Clevelartd weekend of Apnl7. W1ll share 
Larry Herndon and the Giants have a potent attack. 
Two off-season trades have forced the Giants to change personnel at catcher and shortstop. Johnnie LeMaster takes over for Tim Foli at shortstop while Marc Hill should replace Gary Alexander as backstop. , .Neither change has great ramifications. · The Giants are a young team who should be spurred to better 1 performances by the acquisition of Blue and their improving situation in . 
the Bay area. 
San Deigo Padres-Ray Kroc has let the money flow in McDonaldland but
( **********
as yet there has been little change in the play of the Padres. This year 
Kroc dipped into the free agent bag and grabbed Oscar Gamble, the 
slugging outfielder who has a fantastic at bat per home run ratio. 
Gamble's presence should move Gene Richards to first base and gene 
Tenace behind the plate, which will make the Padres a fine offensive 
team. The Padres also have big Dave Winfield. 
The Padres defense, however, will be porous. Gamble has never been known for his ability to chase a flyball and neither Richards or Tenace is stationed at their best defensive position. Also, the Padres are expected to start a rookie, Ozzie Smith, at shortstop. The Padres could very easily lead the league in errors with such a lineup. 
Also, their pitching is rather sparse. Randy Jones seems to be near his form of two season's ago, but he can't do all the team's pitching. Dan Spillner will be a starter, but he has a lifetime winning percentage of only .359. Rollie Fingers will be their top relief man, but he, too, will be overworked. 
Simply, the Padres have the solid offense but they lack the defense and pitching to be a winner.
********** 
Atlanta Braves·•The Braves had the worst record in the National League 
last year and they may be even worse t~is year. Ted Turner has decided. 
that he can lose just as easily with inexpensive players as he was losing 
with expensive players. So, he unloaded Andy Messersmith and Willie 
Montanez over the winter. Can Gary Matthews and JeffBrroughs be far 
behind? 
Phil Neikro is the only pitcher of note on the Braves staff. The rest of the 
spots will be filled by young unknown quantities. 
Besides Matthews and Burroughs, the Braves do have some young and talented hitters. Catcher Biff Porcorba and outfielder Barry Bonnell are both only 24 and they should be Braves for a long time. Hopefully they'll . 
Apke considered for Purdue post 
WEST LAFAYE'ITE, Ind. j_A.~Jk_ Purdue University officials decline to comment Wednesday on the results of a visit here by Creighton Coach Tom Apke concerning the school's new basketball coach. 
"We are not making any com­ment about visits or interviews," said athletic director George King, who is heading the search commit­tee to find a replacement for Fred Schaus, who resigned earlier this month. 
"We have several interviews scheduled and want to keep things ·as confidential as possible,'' said. King. "We'd like to get a coach quickly as the opening date for signing national letters of intent is April 15 and our coach will need to 
get busy recruiting quickly.'' 
Apke, guided Creighton to a 19-9 
record record and. the Missouri 
Valley Conference championship 
during the 1977-78 campaign. His 
contract with Creighton expires 
this year he said Purdue is one of 
several schools that have him. 
He said he considered the Pur­due job an attractive one because of the competition in the Big Ten and 
be able to endure it. • the school's·academic program. 
The prognosis for the Braves is obviously quite dim. Rookie manager Bobby Cox may well wish wish that he had never left the turmoil of the 
................,•..,.rl'.·.v.·-···-·.:-..-,.
Yankee organization by the end of this season. 
Bookstore basketball tournament sign-up tonight 
Bookstore Basketball regi_stra­
tion will begin today. Teams may be r~istered by calling Tourney Commissioner Leo Latz at 8361 from 7-10 p.m. each evening this week. Each team should be sure to include a team name and two team captains. Also, eligibility rules will strictly be enforced this year. Only graduate and undergraduate N.D men, women, faculty and staff as of Jan. 31, 1978 are eligible. Only one varsity of former varsity basketball player may be on a team. A total of three varsity football players are allowed per team and only two varsity football players are allowed if a team plays with a varsity basketball player. No one may play for more than one team. Be sure to register-early as the deadline is 
Riders to Chicag~. downtown, Wednes­
day Apnl 5. Leavmg at 12:30. Call 8051. 
W;t;d;~~dh;;holder Tor half· way house. Small salary plus room and meals. Overnight stay required. Excel­lent experience for persons Interested in mental health field. For further informa­
:~.,~~o;;;;;;,,~;;,--;,~o
Math. Available between 8:30 and 4:30 
Monday thru Friday. Hourly pay. Call for 
interview appointment-Project EFFECT 
IUSB 237-4491 
_______:____________ $100 plus weekly mailing circulars!! Materials supplied, immediate income guaranteed! Rush stamped addressed 
:":':~:~~r·-.~-~: 
FOR SALE 

Attention guitarists-brand new Martin 
Marquis strings $5.25 a set. Tony 7781. 
Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football,
UCLA, Kentulcky and Maryland basket· 
ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated 
material at alow price. Call Doug at 8982 
or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Classic O"vatlon guitar with hard shell 
Ovation case In absolute perfect condition
Must play to fully appreciate. Call Gena 
1694. 
ARIA 5-strlng banjo: Excellent condition. 
Call John at 1694. 
Used golf balls like new $20.00 per 100 
and other prices. Call 272-Q783. 
PERSONALS 

Scout, 
Happy biorthday! 
Friday night, April 7 at midnite and !Basketball Staff will also be a~-_ only 256 teams will be accepted on 1ted this week. Applications may be a first come-first serve basis. submitted to·Latz at 140 Pangborn 
and should include name, address, Applications for the Bookstore 
and phone number. 

cLASS I F I ED ADS f 
CJF is coming. Be there!! !• 
Bus for hire. 25 passenger. $9 per hour. 20 mile radius. Rob 8922 or 8769. 
::T'i~~l:.o~~~~ 
Summer job? 100 positions for engineer­ing undergrads in Chicago area. Call Jan 
1292. 

Women engineering graduates. Fantastic job opportunities in Chicago area. Call JN 
;,~~J~.,.~~ 
An Tostal Is coming! Ail talented im­personations (or those WfO think they are) register now for impe, sonation. Call 
K.B. at 4-p1-4677. Rich Little beward! 
Juniors: Don't forget to dance the night away -Evan On A Sunday! Tickets on sale until April 5th $13. a couple. Anyquestions Call 4719. 
Birthday kisses wanted in 221 Badin. 
Observer Typists. There will ba 1 short
MANDATORY maatlng on Thursday,
April 6 at 7:110 p.m. ln the Observer offices. Piasa attend. Mardi 
FREE JOHN KENNEDY FUND i snow underway. Set John Kennedy free from union College. Give to your FJK RePI't" sentative. 
------~--------­
Today is Sarah D s 21st birthday. Buy her adrink tonight at the Library. 
New Orleans ~dents: Atte;;;ti~ to gat 
a truck for students gear at end of 
::;: 

Haircuts, trims, styles· cheap! SMC 4530 ~..~~..~.: Betsy ------------------:;:; 
Senior elections re-elect success: 
f 

Frick ... 
!~l!" I 
----------------:;:; MKS: It's nice to have friends. ;:;:CJE :;:; -----------------.... 
Pete Arn~t: See i told you I.put apersonal ;:;: In for you. Happy Spring! f The Wrong Carol ;:;: -----------------:;:; 
e~~ii.Y~ I 
Student Players. . . ------------------~:!: Furnished apt. Ail private, 3rooms up for :;:; married grad student. Ail utilities, near :·:· Memorial Hosp. No rent for helping 2 :!:! people in wheelchairs. 232-9128. ;:;: 
;:;; Feliz Cumpleanos Tracy Enright! Ojala :::: que tengas un dia maraviiloso. Felici-;:;: dades! CXon amor, Carol Z.
... It's Puissegulr's birthday! Send aU kisses, hugs, and other once-a-y• 
1expr=:,to. 218 Lyons. Once aga_in, vour ~ 
Happr blrtllday Mary Puissegulr! ttcpe •:: rourda)''sgrut! Wish i couldlle lllertliD :;:; help you celebrats _thought l'rn tute •·•· rou·n do fine. LM, Carol j~l~
:;:; Tecllr Ia 811 Ellot'slllllhlllly·lllwlllm1 ···· call IIIII ..... ltlm 1 Hl!l'W 'II" dlyll l:l:
ICir :;:i
==-~.::-'..lJ: c-. :;:;tl 
splldll•t Pr• li"R..., l'lllclt. :::: 
~:..i.~i:~~~~-·····-··=~~~ , 

j 

Notre Dame tennis players even weekend slate at 2-2 
by Lon Severino 
Sports Writer 
The young Notre Dame tennis team crushed Butler 9-0 Monday at the Courtney Tennis Center, .eve­ning their weekend slate at 2-2. 
The weekend began Saturday morning as the Irish dropped a 6-3 decision to the Minnesota Gophers. 

Marty Horan and Tom Westphal picked up singles victories along with the #1 doubles team of Brian Hainline and Carlton Harris. 
Notre Dame rebounded later in tht~ day topping the Sycamores of Indiana State 6-3. Brian Hainline, Tom Westphal and Bob Koval all scored straight set victories in singles play. In doubles action the Hainline-Harris duo scored a two set win 6-1 6-3 as did the #3 pairing of Herb Hopwood-Mark Hoyer 6-1 6-2. 
Heavy rain forced the shifting of Sunday's match with lllinois to the South Bend Racquet Club. The Irish did not fare well indoors dropping the match to the Illini 7-2. The Irish netmen moved back outdoors Monday and blanked Butler 9-0. Coach Tom Fallon's squad totally dominated the match, sweeping every set and winning 112 of the 158 games played. Brian 
Hainline led the way in the #1 spot winning his match 7-5 6-2. The number 2 and 3 singles players Herb Hopwood and Marty Horan scored victories 6-2 6-2 and 6-3 7-5 respectively. The Irish completed their impressive singles play as Tom Westphal. Bob Koval, and Mark Hoyer swept to wins, Hoyer shutting out his opponent 6-0 6-0. The 3 doubles squads completed the one-sided match as the Hainline-Harris. Horan-Koval. and Hopwood-Royer duos each scored straight set victories. Hoyer, the lone southpaw on the squad en­joyed a highly successful day winning 24 of 26 games in singles and doubles. 
Coach Fallon was very pleased with the weekend performance of his young squad. Of the top 6 singles players Fallon's lineup includes 2 freshmen. a sophomore, a pair of juniors and a lone senior, #1 man Hainline. The doubles teams are equally young, including the #3 freshman duo of Mark Hoyer and Herb Hopwood. Fallon singled out Hopwood for his impressive weekend play. The Arlington, Virginia first year man won 3 of 4 weekend matches and is currently holding down the #2 singles and #3 doubles spots. Sophomore Tom Westphal and Junior Marty Horan also played fine tennis each winning 3 of 4 weekend matches. 
Fallon, tennis coach for the past 21 years, stressed the squad's need for collegiate experience. "We have a young team and our inexperienced players will benefit from our tough spring schedule. Experience is our short suit but youthful enthusiasm is our strong point." said Fallon. 
"We've lost several tight matches but with continued hard wcrk the team should show great improve­ment." predicted Fallon. 
Notre Dame's tennis squads have had only one losing record during Fallon's 21 years and this year's team hopes to continue that winning tradition. 
The Irish netmen now own a spring record of 6 wins against 7 losses and face a tough weekend of road matches, traveling to Valparaiso, Wisconsin and North­western. The squad will return homr for an April 9 clash with Ohio State. 
Brian Hainline proved to be In number-one form this weekend [Photo by Doug Christian]
Tony Pace·::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;::========::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·=·:·:·:·:·:::·:·=·=·=·:-::;:;::=:=:===========:== 
The National League West 
;:;:;:;:;::=:=:::::=:======================:===:=========:=:====:=:=:=:=:::=:==:====:===============Baseball PrevieMr 
Since the inception of divisional play in major league baseball, the National League West has been the sport's strongest division. This year should be no different. Once again the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Cincinnati Reds should do battle for the western top spot in the NL. However. this year should see some more balance within the division as the houston Astros and the San Francisco Giants begin to play like pennant contending teams. The Astros especially also could surprise people by continuing the type of fine play which they exhibited in the second half of last season. The San Diego Padres are strong offensively but they need more pitching and defense. The Atlanta Braves are the only team in the division which will not be competitive. Here's one view of this race: 
********** 
Los Angeles ~gers-Los Angeles fans must have been bleeding Dodger 
blue when the1r heroes were beaten by the Yankees in six games in last 
year's World Series. Those wounds should be well healed by now and the 
Dodgers can be expected to make another assault on the World 
Championship. 

Th~s. year's e~ition of the Dodgers will be aided immeasurably by the 
add1hon of relief ace Terry Forster. This former White Sox and Pirate 
fire bailer is just the southpaw the Dodgers needed to complement Chalie 
Hough in the bullpen. Forster's presence could mean as many as ten 
more wins for the Dodgers over last season. That would give them a total 
of 108 wins. which is almost invincible. 
To reach such a total, the Dodgers would have to receive the type of 
pe~ormances they got last season from the likes of Dusty Baker, Reggie 
Sm1th. Ron Cey and Steve Garvey. All four of these players hit 30 or more 
home runs last year and they made the Dodger offense the best in the 
National League. If Rick Monday, who was hurt for much of last season 
and compiled only a .230 batting average, can return to top form then the 
Dodger machine should be better than ever. 
The starting pit.ching staff is the same with Don Sutton, Tommy John, 
Burt Hooton. R1ck Rhoden and Doug Rau doing the hurling. With 
tlychasers like Monday and Smith and infielders like Cey, Bill Russell. 
Dave Lopes and garvey the pitchers can even have an off day and win. 
The 1978 edition of the Dodgers is improved and, barring major injuries, they should be able to withstand the charge of their archrival Reds and reach the playoffs. 
********** 
Cincinnati Reds· The Redlegs fell behind the Dodgers at the opening of last season an~ they we.re never ~ble to catch up: Manager Sparky Anderso_n promises that h1s troops wdl be ready for th1s campaign and that they'll giVe the Dodgers all that they can handle. While this may be true. Anderson surely must wonder how his team would have fa. ed if Vida Blue was making Cincinnati his residence. Before Commissioner Bowie Kuhn voided the sale/trade (pick one or the other depending on your Ioyalities) of Blue, the Reds had to be the odds on favorite to represent the National Lc!lgue in ~he World Series. Blue would have filled the Reds' pitching vmd: As It stands now tome Seaver, Fred Norman and Bill Bonham, obtamed from the Cubs in the off season, are the Reds only legitimate starters. After those three it's pray for rain. Relievers Pedro Borbon. Dale Murray and Doug Capilla should see alot of action. 
~ffensively, the Reds ar<: awesome. Four members of the Reds' starting e1ght have won the Nattonal League MVP in recent years: Johnny Bench(twice), Joe Morgan(twice), Pete Rose and, most recently, George Foster. Last year Foster led the senior curcuit with 52 home runs and 149 ru~s batted in. Add _to this powerful quartet two rising stars like Dan Dr1essen and Ken Gr1ffey and you have a team which will stack up well with any team ever fielded. 
The two Cincinnati starters with the weakest bats Cesar Geronimo and Dave Concepcion, are outstanding defensively at tw'o important positions: centerfield and shortstop. 
Even with all of the Reds' star players performing up to their potential last season, Cincinnati fell short of the Dodgers. The only addition to the Reds' cast has been Bonham, who should help, but by no means will be enough for the Reds to overtake Los Angeles. Cincinnati will be dreaming of Blue in more ways than one. 
(contlnnecl on p. 7] 
The Players of Spring : Of Mets and Men 
by Mike Henry Sports Writer 

This Is the second of a three-part series on spring training by Mike Henry. Evidently the players did more talking than playing. 
March 21--Reflections 

John Denny, St. Louis Cardinals, pitcher:"Last year I start,ed out 7-0 and Sports Illustrated did a feature on me. Then, in Cincinnati in June, I pulled a hamstring muscle and had to sit out. I re-in jured it in Los Angeles. Nothing like this had ever happened to me before. I had x-rays taken to try to determine what the problem was, but they were inconclusive. lben I remembered something our trainer, Doc Bowman, had said-something about taping my legs too tightly. I haven't been using any tape since, and I've been fine. My control is getting sharper--I'm more able to put my pitches where I want to. I feel it myself, Rasmussen and Falcone can improve, we can take it all this year. The confidence is there. Also, Littell, who we picked up in the Hrabosky deal, should be a big help in the bullpen. We've had no contract problems, and everybody can't wait for the bell. We're confident that we can catch the Phillies. '' 
Ed Kranepool, New York Mets, first baseman: "Why should I be thinking about retirement? I still enjoy the game and I know I can still play. I'd like to play every game this year, but that's up to number 9 (manager Joe Torre). I come down here not primed for spring training, but to get ready for the regular season. Sure, I like to hit against Seaver, but I feel no extra incentive when I face him. Koufax was the toughest I ever faced, but for one year (1968 1.12 earned run average, 22-9, 13 shoutouts) Gibson was the best. Juan Marichal was another great one. I don't want to make nay predictions--I've been around too long for that." Translation--the Mets will be nowheresville again in 1978. 
The Mets won tonight's game, 7-3. Particularly impressive was a26-yearold forkballer named Marty Cornejo who, while walking six in two innings, showed great confidence and an ability to get out of trouble. Although he may be back in Tidewater again this season, watch for his name in the future. 
March 22 

Tom Seaver brought out a capacity crowd to AI Lang Field this evening, and they weren't disa­ppointed. He pitched six flawless innings, and was touched for just two singles, a gift to old friend Bud Harrelson and a legit shot by Kenny Henderson. 
Without question, Seaver is the best pitcher in the game today. We are past the point of comparing him to Steve Carlton or Jim Palmer--he may fairly be compared only with Nicklaus, Abdui-Jabbar or Lafleur--living legends. 
"With out hitting Seaver should win twenty­five," Sparky Anderson intones to anyone within shouting distance. "There was nothing to teach Seaver when he came to us--I just let him learn by himself," Met pitching coach Rube Walker told a questioner. "The one thing that sets Senver apart from the rest is he challenges ;ou when he's behind 
on the count," marvels new teammate Dave 
Concepcion. Seaver's record speaks even more 
loudly than these accolades, and when he retires, he 
will settle comfortable into baseball's pantheon with 
the Johnsons, Mathewsons, and Koufaxes. 
However, Seaver won't win 25 unless his mates 
score some runs for him. Craig Swan of the Mets 
matched him for four innings, and reliever Skip 
Lockwood held Cincinnati for another three. The 
ninth inning of this game was one to cherish. The 
Reds tallied in the top half on a single, a balk, a 
sacrifice, and a fly ball by Bill Plummer. All seemed 
lost for the home squad as Doug Bair, ,-ho Anderson 
and the Reds are counting on heavily this season, 
came out to pitch the ninth. A singl' by Peck's Bad 
Boy, Lenny Randle, stopped the tide of elders 
streaming towards the exits. Then Bobby Valentine, 
who broke his leg in a horrible mishap a few years 
back, stepped up and smashed a Bair fastball into 
tJce darkness of the St. Petersburg sky. 
For Valentine, it was another happy step towards what all fans hope will be a great comeback in 1978. Still, Tom Seaver was the main topic of conversation as we headed home. 
March 23 

The Dodgers showed a sparse gathering of senior citizens why they'll win the National League Western Division title again in 1978 as they crushed the New York Mets 12-1, behind the slugging of Ron Cey and the sterling pitching of Doug Rau and reliever Robert Castillo. 
For all practical purposes, the contest was over after Cey's two-run homer off beleagured Mets starter Jerry Koosman in the first inning. My vision drifted to the comforting sight of Tom Lasorda lounging in a folding chair, just ouside the Dodger dugout, catching some rays while directing his juggernaut, and I recalled something Sparky Anderson had said yesterday. "We're {We 
mal!ag~rs all common," he stated. "Some of us just do 1t differently than others." Lasorda does it with love, affection, and warmth, yet delivers that kick to the backside when its needed. He is a pleasant relief from the abrasiveness of Billy Martin, and for this reason alone it was a shame his club couldn't upset the Yanks in last season's fall classic. 
Lasorda's easy-goingness and the personalities of the Dodgers front-line players may lead in time to this squad being called "Boys of Summer II." The comparisons are endless: Garvey and Hodges, the strong, quiet, personable first basemen; Davey Lopes and Jackie Robinson, the catalysts; Bill Russell and Pee W<:e Reese, the efficient, workman­like shortstops: Lasorda and Charlie Dressen, the ebullient, optimistic field generals. 
The man most responsible for the Dodgers' success in both eras remains--owner Patriarch Walter O'Malley. 


_________..:....______.;..___-..;______...... 




