Carter speaks on touchy subjects in Brazil 
BKAZIIJA* Brazil [AP] ·President Carter arrived yesterday in Brazil and told the four-star general who heads its government that all nations must recognize their short­comings in human rights and can use atomic power without adding to the world's nuclear arsenal. 
Both are touchy subjects in this largest nation in South America, the second Carter has visited on his first trip to Latin America as president. Brazil has canceled military agreements with the Unit­ed States because of Carter's human rights crusade. 
In addition, theBrazilian military government has said it will go ahead with the purchase of a nuclear processing plant from West Germany despite American ex­pressions of concern that it could be used to make atomic weapons. 
"Today all of us are joining in the worldwide struggle to advance the cause of human freedom and the rule of law,'' Carter said during his arrival ceremony at Brasilia Inter­national Airport. ''This is a struggle that will prevail only when we are willing to recognize our own limitations and to speak to each other frankly and with understand­ing." 
Then, referring to the danger of nuclear weaponry, the president declared: "Both our nations are turning to nuclear power as one of the answers to our energy prob­lems, and we both believe that peaceful use of atomic power is not incompatible with the need to prevent nuclear proliferation." 
His statements seemed less blunt than others he has made at home on both issues. Earlier, however, in Caracas, the president told the oil-rich nation of Venezuela that major petroleum exporting nations must share their wealth with poor nations of the world ''to meet the human needs of the world's peo­ple." 
The president made the statement in a major address to Venezuela's national congress before meeting for a second day with President Carlos Andres Perez. The visiting president wants Perez to hold down oil prices. Venezuela is the third 
largest supplier of oil to the United States. 
After the Venezuelan talks, Car­ter, his wife,Rosalynn, 10-year-old daughter Amy and top U.S. offi­cials including national security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance left in the presidential jet, Air Force One, for Brazil's capital of Brasilia. They will fly to Rio de Janeiro today. 
From Brazil, the presidential par­ty flies across the Atlantic where Carter will become the first Ameri­can president to make a state visit to Black Africa. He will confer with leaders in Nigeria and Liberia before returning to Washington ~arty next week. 

server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 106 Thursday, March 30, 1978 

Howard fire still amystery 
by Jana Schutt ported that damage has been estimated at between 20 and 30 
The cause of the March 16 fire in thousand dollars. Notre Dame's Howard Hall is still All reconstruction has been com­"undetermined," according to pleted, according to Howard Hall Bro. Borromeo Malley, Notre Dame Rector Fr. Gene Gorski. He noted fire chief. that the elevator has been restored 
Fr. Jerome Wilson, executive and the door frames have been administrator of Maintenance, re-replaced. He added that blistered 
"""-' .. 
*" ··~"'
... 
~... -.. ··~ 
< ,.,. J \1'>' .;; 
:,.... .·" ~ ':'. 
.::; . ·c>¢.•, ::"' ~~ "' 
.;..__ "':.:..:..... ..;,. 
Waterspots stain the floor in this Howard hallway as a result of the fire which occured March 16. Most of the hall has been restored to normal, however. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
Services held for Cullity 
Funeral services were held yesterday at noon for Notre Dame professor Bernard Cullity who died Sunday night. Cullity was a professor of metallurgical engi­neering and mathematical science at Notre Dame for 28 years. 
Born in Nov. 19, 1917, Cullity studied at McGill University in Toronto, where he earned a B.S. deb~ee. He received his masters from the University of Minnesota, and in 1947 completed his doetorite at MIT. 
He was the author of two major textbooks, one concerning x-ray diffraction and another dealing with magnetic materials. Cullity also was a Fullbright Scholar at Grenoble University in France and group leader in charge of the Manhattan Project during World Warn. 
He was awarded the Outstanding Lay Faculty Award by the Univer­sity in 1966, and last May was presented with the Outstanding Teacher Award for the College of Engineering. 
Cullity is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Kercheval Cullity. 
paint and varnish have been scrap­ed and repainted. 
Any losses suffered by student during the fire are not covered by campus insurance, according to Insurance Officer Charles Reddy. Gorski, however, noted that family insurance policies cover such dam­ages. 
The fire occurred at 3:10 a.m. on March 16. Malley said that all indications trace the fire to a canvas maid's cart which ignited in the first floor elevator sl)aft where it had been stored. 
By 3:35 a.m., Malley added, 95 percent of the fire had been extinguished. The fire had shot up the elevator shaft, he explained, only to be contained by the attic roof so that the flames were forced back down the shaft. 
Malley noted that no fire actually entered any room. The most extensive damage was caused by smoke, he stated. 
Malley said the fourth floor, the first outlet for the flames, was hardest hit. He said the Notre Dame Fire Department cut a hole in the roof to release the heat and smoke trapped in the elevator shaft. 
John Kobunski, a fourth floor Howard resident, said that resi­dents went knocking from door to door to make sure everyone was awake and out of the building. 
Gorski said that as soon as he was awakened he activated the fire alarm, which is operated by a key. He called the cooperation of the Howard residents ''excellent'' dur­ing the evacuation. 
, ··"' 
if 
"'' -..
""'"'*"'. 
"t 
-
,,~ ~"'"'*-,: ., -'=< ~-~
< < • " 1$% I
June may not be busting out all over, but.the crocuses bloomb;1g by the Crossroads are a sure sign that warm weather is ·~n ...e way. If we can only get rid of the snow...[Photo fly Bill Reifsteck] 
UMW leaders approve contract for mine construction workers 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The Uni­ted Mine Workers' district leaders unanimously approved a proposed contract for striking mine construc­tion workers yesterday and sent the pact to the coalfields for a ratifica­tion vote next Tuesday. 
Some of the 10,000 construction workers had disrupted the resump­tion of normal coal production this week by throwing up pickets and blocking the return to work of coal miners who ratified their new contract last Friday. 
Union officials said the construc­tion contract was approved with all 37 members of the bargaining council who were present W ednes­day voting for it. 
Two council members were not present, including UMW President Arnold Miller who suffered a mild stroke, according to the union. 
Most of the 160,000 coal miners returned to their jobs on Monday to end a 111 day strike. However, an estimated 18,000 have refused to cross picket lines thrown up by construction workers, primarily in Dlinois, Indiana and western Ken­tucky. 
The construction workers, who build tunnels and above ground facilities, went out on strike with the miners Dec. 6 and were in the 114th dav of their walkout. 
Picketing construction miners fanned out across the coal fields of southwestern Indiana yes­terday, shutting down the remain­ing handful of mines that had reopened earlier in the week. 
The action made good a pledge by a spokesman for the construe~ tion miners that the pickets would remain until they have a signed contract. 
The United Mine Workers sett­led their 110 day old strike last week with the ratification of a three-year agreement with the nation's soft coal operators. They have been honoring theconstruction miners' picket lines in a demons­tration of solidarity. 
"We went out with·the produc­tion miners and we should go back with them,'' said Bruce Hensley, a member of Local 1851, the only construction local in lndiana. 
"We've shut down all mining operations in southern Indiana and intend to keep them shut,'' he said in a telephone interview with the Associated Press. 
"We're trying to get support in the northern portion of the state but are a little short on manpower. About 100 of us are doing picket 1uty." 
Hensley and his fellow miners marshalled their support and shut down the northern coal operations, ~losing out production for the state's biggest coal companies -Amax, Peaboyd and Old Ben. 
"Local officers,including our 
~Coatluued oa PIP 51 
Thursday, March 30, 1978 
the observer 





,_News Briefs--------... 
1:=:::::====================::::======::::: National 
State abortion law changed 
OKLAHOMA CITY-The Oklahoma Senate has voted 32-5 for a bill that would make it more difficult for a woman to get an abortio~ in Oklahoma. The measure, which now goes to the House, reqmres written consent from the patient's husband and requires physicians to inform prospective patients of the possible physical and mental after-effects of abortions. 

Retirement age challenged 
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. -People don't "become imbeciles" when they turn 70, says a 70-year-old Westport, Conn. science teacher who has filed a suit challenging the constitutionality of the state's mandatory retirement law for teachers. Marten Tafel, who turned 70 on March 16, charged in an interview Tuesday that the law is "wasteful and discriminatory." He added that he wants to teach as long as he can be effective. When asked how long that might be, he responded, "It is in the lap of the gods." 
Is it play time yet? 
EAST GRAND PLAINS, N.M. -Gov. Jerry Apodaca visited the elementary school in this southeastern New Mexico community and offered to answer questions from the children. One first-grade boy put up his hand and asked, "can we go outside and play?" 


WEATHER 

Partly cloudy and warmer through Friday. Highs today in the mid 50s. Lows tonight in the low 40s. Highs tomorrow around 70. 
~On Campus Today_----..... 
conterence, carl gustav jung conference, sponsored 
10:30 am by college of arts & letters, cce, continues through april 2. 
lecture, "socialist development: a marxian view," 3:30pm by jeck gurley, sponsored by econ. dept., 242 o'shag-satellite I. 
meeting, army officer selection panel, sponsored by 
4:30pm 
army rotc, lib. aud. 

lecture, "decomposition & its importance in lakes,"
4:30pm 

by dr. gordon godshalk, univ. of fla., sponsored by biology dept., 101 galvin. 
film/talk, "j.p. stevens: labor law violaions and 7 pm labor & justice," by fr. pat sullivan, clergy liaison 
with amalgamated clothing workers union, Iafortune 
little theatre. 

7, 9 & film, "annie hall," sponsored by chem. engr., eng.11 pm aud., admission $1. 
lecture "on whose side is history? reflections by a 8 pm histori~n," by rev. stanley jaki, sponsored by Iaconte du nouy committee, lib. aud. & lounge. 
duo faculty recital, carol dzikowski-soprano & jef!rey
8 pm noonan-guitar, sponsored by smc music dept., httle theatre. 

lecture, "the south afri:::an liberation struggle," by 8pm. seretse choabi, dir. of albert lutuli mem. found., 
sponsored by program of african studies & program 
of black studies, area studies reading rm., 1201 
mem.lib. 

8:15pm concert,  univ.  of  notre  dame concert band,  
sponsored by m usic  dept., ace.  
friday  

biology travel series, "italy-its art & countryside," 
12:15 pm by karen tweedell, sponsored by biology dept., 278 galvin aud. 
Observer Editorial Board 

Parents neglect son; charged with endangering his life 
HUTCHINSON, Kan. [API -A Yesterday, the boy's parents, He returned with a search warrant 
boy found in a filthy, unlit room has Dolph and Elizabeth Hagerman, and other officers as witnesses, and been removed from the care of his signed a letter of consent allowing found the boy locked in a filthy, parents, who have been charged the boy to be taken to the Kansas unlit room. with endangering the life of a child, Neurological Istitute at Topeka for 
Mud said the boy's body had
a misdemeanor. a 90-day evaluation. 
numerous sores on it. He addedAuthorities said the boy, 16, has 
Hagerman and his wife have that they boy apparently was inthe mentality of an infant, the been released on $5,000 bond, good physical condition and "inphysical appearance of a 9 or pending a preliminary hearing. A good spirits" yesterday. 
10-year-old, and has spoken only custody hearing has been set for Police in this central Kansastwo words -"apple" and "car" ­
April 5 to determine if the county, community say the boy's parentssince he was taken from his which now has custody of the boy, admitted keeping him locked in aparents' home on Friday. His should continue to care for him. 7-by-8 foot room off and on for the name has not been released. 
Ifconvicted, the Hagermans face past three or four vears. maximum sentences of one year in Hagerman, 45, ·told officers he
NO Credit Union 
jail and a $2,500 fine. 
was glad the situation had beeqassets climb Juvenile detective Ben Mud said discovered. Police said Hagerman he went to the Haggerman home added that he felt police would
Assets of the Notre Dame Credit 
Friday night after being told about have the boy's best interests atUnion increased from $11.5 million 
the boy's condition by an acquain­heart.
to $15.4 million during the last tance of the family. 
year, according to a report at the Police said Hagerman and his group's recent annual meeting. Mud said when he entered the wife had blamed each other for Membership jumped 37 percent home, he noticed the stench of their young son's condition. The and loans increased form $8.6 human waste, and heard scratching couple has an older son now in million to $13.2 million. and banging on the door of a room. military service. 
Fred Freeman, president, reported that Richard J. Thomp­son, Ruth E. Kelly, E.E. Barnbrook 


Wiesel series continues 
and John W. Mihelich were elected 
to the board of directors. Alan 
Award-winning author Elie book, and as he intensely demon­Wiesel is giving his annual Eternal strated to the Notre Dame commu­Kniola was named to the credit 
Light radio series on four Hasidic nity," Hesburgh writes in thecommittee, while Gary P. Cain and masters and their struggle against foreward, "he is afraid neither ofLouis Freitag were elected to the melancholy, a topic he treated in a amibiguity, nor of paradox, nor ofsupervisory committee. 

series of lectures last }'ear at Notre mystery.
With offices at Notre Dame and 
Dame. Eternal Light is broadcast acrossSaint Mary's College, the Credit Journalist, novelist and teller of the country as a public service byUnion is open to all personnel nd stories central to the traditions of the National Broadcasting Com·members of their family who are Hasidic Judaism, Wiesel delivered pany in cooperation with The
associated with the St. Joseph 
the ninth annual Ward-Phillips
Hospitals of South Bend and Mish­Jewish Theological Sociuy of 
Lectures of the Department of
awaka, Holy Cross Junior College, America. Wiesel's series began the Congregation of the Holy English in April 1977. Those March 19 and will continue for the lectures, a foreward
Cross, St. Joseph's High School with by Fr. next two Sundays. 
and St. Mary's Academy. Theodore M. Hesburge, president The program may be heard in the of Notre Dame, will be published as South Bend area on Elkhart station a book by the University of Notre WTRC-AM (1340) at 10:28 p.m.,
*The Observer 
Dame Press May 15. ad on Chicago station WMAQ·
"As Elie Wiesel testifies in this AM (670) at 6:30 a.m..____Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editors: Chris Slatt, Margie Brassil 
II 
layout Staff: Tim Hamilton, n Sat.Sun Jim Rudd, Tom Monroe, 
Thur. 
1:457:oo Thur Fri-
Kathy Mills 
4:009:35 7:15 
6:45
Features layout: Brzhob 
6:45
Stachowiak Fri. 9:20 9:20 
9:20Sports layout: Ray O'Brien, 
7:00 Paul Mullaney 
9:40 Typists: Gwen Coleman, 
Sat.
Stacy Weaver, Katie Brehl, 
Sun.
Lisa DiValerio 
2:00 Night Controller: Mardi Nevin 
4:30 Day Editor: Marian Ulicny 
7:00 9:40
Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni Ad layout: next time sign yo.~r name! 
*********************************** 

POSII10NS OPEN ON 1HE 1979 DOME
Photographer: Bill Reifsteck 
sports ediJors seniors editor 
The Observer Is published Mon­d•y through Frld•y except during 
organizations ediJor business manager 
exam •nd vacation periods. Tt)e Observer Is published by the 
eoonts ediJor photography staff
students of Notre Dame •nd Saint M•rv's College. Subscriptions 
student life editor
m•v be purchased for $20 per year (S 1 o per 5emesterl from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, Indian• 46556. Second CIUI po&t•ge p•ld, Notre D•me, 
Noexperiencenecesw-y 
lndl•n•, 46556. . The Observer Is • member of the Anocl•ted Pren. All repro­
Contact Bill. Fuller at the Dome offire, 
duction right& •re re&erved. 
3rd floor LaFortune or phone 7524 or 3121 
********************************** • 



: Spring Concert : 
: :

\ , : Thursday, March 30 8:15pm. : 
RESTAURANTE • • SCOTTSDALE MALL • • FREE!! ! ! Athletic and Convocation Center : 
Soft drink ·with 3 items : University of Notre Dame : ., TACOS •\lAB~ TACQ e • 
• IIRRifOS • TAJIALIS . : : • EIICIDADAS • TACO DOC e • • TO$fADOS •IEAII TACO • • 
• 
IARIEQ"E TACO •• •e • sPAIIISI IIOT ooo • Admission Free • 

• 
CIIUSEBUICER • • "We carry a line of •• •• 


egetarian Foods. • • ix:~bliCIIGooQCIIc:to~;xx::IOC:~~ ' • • • • • • e e • • e • • • • e • e •• • • • • • • •.• • • • I 

Tony Pace Steve Odland 
John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Grulev 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor 



SMC organizes WOW 
MollyWouHe Senior Staff Reporter 

Workshops, lectures, and a take­off of the television program ''Any­thing Goes" are just some of the highlights of Saint Mary's first Women's Opportunity Week (WOW) to be held April 3-8. 
"The program was put together by a group of women who go to a women's college," commented Mary Laverty, SMC Director of Student Activities. ''They saw a real need to identify issues that are pertinent in today's society." 
Laverty added that the week's activities will hopefully help pre­pare women for roles as leaders, give them a glimpse of the real world, set the tone for further endeavors at Saint Mary's, and help the college to become a national trend setter in women's awareness. 
Complete schedules of events will be distributed to students this week. The activities, which are open to all SMC/ND students and the public, include: 
Peace talks re-open 
JERUSALEM (AP] • Israel .will 
send Defense Minister Ezer W eiz­
man to Egypt today to reopen the 
direct Mideast peace talks that 
were suspended two months ago, 
Israeli radio and Egyptian sources 
said yesterday. 
The reports here and in Cairo 
indicated Israel was undertaking a 
new diplomatic initiative following 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin's 
tense talks with President Carter 
last week in Washington, where 
the U.S. desire for new Israeli 
accommodation with the Arabs was 
made manifest. 
Still, Begin vowed in parliament 
yesterday to continue resisting 
~merican pressure. 
He then saw his supporters beat back opposition attempts to soften Israel's stand on the issue of occupied Arab lands -one of the major points of conflict between Israel and its American ally, and between the Jewish state and its Arab neighbors. 
It was assumed Weizman would see Egyptian President Anwar Sadat but there was no word on how long he would stay, military sources said in Cairo. The defense minister last was in Egypt on Feb. 1 to discuss military arrangements in the occupied Sinai Desert. 
Israeli radio reported that the Israeli cabinet decided Sunday to send Weizman back to Egypt, and the invitation from Egyptian War Minister Mohammed Abdel Ghani el-Gamassy reached Israel on Tuesday. 
The reports of Weizman's immi­nent departure came one day after the dispatch to Sadat through U.S. diplomatic channels of a letter from Begin, urging resumption of direct talks. U.S. Ambassador Hermann Eilts met Wednesday with Egyp­tian Vice President Hosny Mubarak to transmit a message for Sadat, presumably the letter. 
Weizman's impending mission, which had been reported pre­viously but whose date was not know until yesterday, would repre­
need resumes in a hurry? 

I 
insty-prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 

25 • 8.5 x 11 only $2.65 203 N. Main Downtown So Bend 289-697 
A presentation on ''The Chris­tian Women in Today's World" at 8 p.m. on Monday in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans, by Patricia Crowley, Founder of Christian Family Movement and President of Space, Inc. Travel Agency. 
A Women's Music Workshop, Tuesday at 3:30p.m., in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans. Ellen and Wendy Britton, successfully received at such schools as Penn State, Temple, and Georgetown, will incorporate songs and discus­sions to help students gain insight into the world of the female musician and performer. 
The Britton sisters will conduct a blues and ·contemporary folk con­cert in the Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, that same evening at 8 p.m. 
A lecture, "Past, Present, and Future" by Betty Friedan, author of The Feminine Mystique and It Cbaliged My Life and founder of National Organization of Women, (NOW) at 8 p.m. on Wednesday in the O'Laughlin A\lditorium. 
Friedan, "one ofthe most impor­tant figures of the 20th century," 
se~t at least the fifth stage in Israeli-Egyptian contacts since last fall. Sadat's visit to Jerusalem in November was followed by a· Christmas Day summitt with Begin in Ismailia, Egypt; brief political and military talks in Jerusalem and Cairo beginning in January; and a period of U.S. shuttle diplomacy that followed the breakdown of those talks. 
Ruth Clusen to speak at SMC Commencement 
Ruth C. Clusen, President of the League of Women Voters of the United States (LWVUS), will deli­ver the principal address and receive an honorary degree at the 131st annual commencement at Saint Mary's in May. 
Clusen is completing her second term as president of the League which has nearly 150,000 members across the United States. A member of the League's national board since 1966, she also serves as chairman of the League of Women Voters Education Fund where she played a principle planning and policy-making role in developing the 1976 Presidential Debates. 
In March 1977, Clusen was appointed by President Carter to the National Commission on the Observance of International Women's Year which was charged with leading 56 state and territorial women's meetings leading to the National Women's Conference which took place in Houston last year. 
As a long term advocate of a global approach to environmental problems, Ousen was selected by 


ND SENIOR WOMEN 

Don't forget to purchase Senior Women's Dinner Tickets for .Wednesday April 5th by Monday April 3rd from your hall or OC representative. 
Ticket price $8.50 


the Environmental Protection Agency to be a member of the U.S. delegation to the US-USSR Joint Committee on Environmental Pro­tection in Moscow in 1974. 
Reflecting her commitment to equal rights and equal opportunity; Ousen has also served on the Advisory Board of the Women's Campaign Fund since 1976. She is a member of the national board of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. 
In November 1976, Ousen was awarded the First Annual Grand Marnier Civic Achievement Award and in May 1877 was honored as a Woman of the Year by the Ladles Home Journal as a result of her work on the '76 Presidential Debates Project. 
She is listed in Who's Who In America and was selected for recognition in the 9th edition of Notable Americans of 1976-77. She was awarded honorary Doctor of Laws degrees in 1977 by Colgate University in New York and Wayne State University in Michigan. 
Prior to her election as national League president, Ousen served the L WVUS as vice-president from 1968-70 and from 1972-74. 
according to NOW past president Karen DeCrow, will provide a personal account of the years she fought to emancipate women. 
An address by Mary Heslin, Commissioner of Consumer Affairs for the State of Connecticut, on April 6, at 8 p.m. in Catroll Hall, Madeleva. 
"Anything Goes," a spoof of the television show, which Laverty promised to be ''filled with fun and excitement" will be held April 7 at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
SMC athletes will compete with fighting Irish football players Doug Becker, Ted Burgmeier, .Steve Orsini, and Dave Reeve, and members of the ND fencing team in such events as tricycle-and-shaving cream races and an egg toss. One 
or  more  of  the  ND  basketball  
players w ill referee.  
"And  we  do  plan  to  defeat  

them," Laverty declared. 
Other activities include panel discussions, more lectures, an "Academic Quiz Show" featuring the top scholars of Saint Mary's vs. those of Notre Dame, and a fashion show. 
All programs are free to SMC/ND students with the excep­tion of the fashion show, where a S1 admission fee will be charged. Students are encouraged to pick up tickets early for the Friedan lec­ture. 
The SMC ticket office is located at 239 Moreau. A S2 admission fee will be charged of the general public for the Friedan lecture. 
' 
The new checking system will allow students their choice of dining hall although it will not speed up the checking process. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
Dining hall checking system now working 
by Sue Wuetcher 
The new computer checking sys­tem in the dining halls is working very well, according to Robert J. Robinson, senior food service dir­ector. 
So far the new system, which was installed Monday afternoon, has worked longer and more efficiently than the old system during the time it was in service, he added. 
Robinson stated that the problem with the old system was purely mechanical. The reader head, which illicited information from the black band of the I.D. card, moved from left to right. It couldn't keep up with the volume because of the condition of many of the ID's ne noted. "Kids don't keep their ID's. in clean plastic cases,'' Robinson said. "They keep them in their pockets and purses, where they pick up lint and dirt." 
The new system replaces the moving head with one that remains stationary. With this wipe-

PUT YOUR SCIENTIFIC OR ENGINEERING DEGREE TO WORK 

If you're a degree candidate who would ~ke to embark on a future· oriented scientific or engineering career, then consider the UnltE'd States Air force. It's one of the finest opportuhitie$ in the nation. 
Co":'pletion of ?ur three·!TJ0nth OfficenTraining School nets you dn off1cer s comm1ss1onand launches you into a career that's g~.ared for tomorrow. Our eqUipment IS among the f1nest, our working con· d111ons are excellent, and our benefits package unmatched. Find out about a space age service from vour nearest Air Force rocruiter. 
S/Sgt.Donald BoehringerUSAF Recruiting Office 109 E. LaSalle Street 

South Bend,In.46601 PH:(219)233-4747 

A great IIIOY of life. 
through method of checking ID's there is less chance of the reader head getting stuck on the card. Robinson said that this system is similar to others that have been used in all kinds of areas for many years. "It has a proven track record," he said. 
The system is not really designed for speed, Robinson explained. It's purpose is to better control who eats in the dining halls. It also guarantees a better count for more efficient planning. 
Robinson remarked that a big plus for the system is that it gives students the option of eating at either dining hall. "The system tells immediately if someone is eating at both places." It controls, but also benefits the students, '' he said. 
Robinsor. noted that the Univer­sity purcliased the computer equip­ment but would not pay for it until a satisfactory system is found. He said he could not speculate on the projected cost of the equipment. 



Farmers losing despite price hikes 
[API • Food prices are rising Today's increases in retail food for business taxes, 2.3 cents fro went up 4.1 percent in February, anticipated prices would decline. 
sharply. But the farmers who 
produce the · food are striking 
because, they say, they are losing 
money. How come? • 
There are two reasons for the apparent contradiction. First, marketing costs. Second, argicul­tural diversity. 
Marketing costs cover all those things that happen to food after it leaves· the farm. They include labor costs, transportation, packag­ing and profits. In 1976, the latest year for which a complete break­down is available, a little Jess than one-third of the $172 billion Ameri­cans spent for food produced on 
U.S. farms went to farmers, the Department of Agriculture says. Two-thirds went for marketing costs. 
Those figures, of course, are just an average. And that's where agricultural diversity comes in. 
prices are due mainly to higher prices for items like beef · where producers get a larger-than­average share of consumers' food dollars. The farmers who are striking generally raise crops for products whose retail prices depend more on marketing costs than on farm value. 
An analysis prepared by the USDA's Economic Research Ser­vice late last year showed labor costs accounted for 31.6 percent of the food bill, 1 percentage point less than the amount paid to farmers. 
Put another way, 32.6 cents of every dollar you spend on food goes to the farmer; 31.6 cents pays salaries and fringe benefits of the men and women who get the food to market; 8. 7 cents goes for transportation, 4.8 cents for corpo­rate profits before takex, 2. 7 cents depredation, 2 cents for rent and 
1.9 cents for advertising. The final 
13.4 cents covers miscellaneous items like fuel, interest costs, repair and bad debts. 
The USDA study shows market­i111g costs account for a smaller share of consumer spending on animal products than on crop produc-ts. In 1976, 44 percent of the money spent on beef went to farmers. In contrast, only 13 percent of the cost of bakery products went to the farmers. 
Last October, choice grade beef sold for $42.68 per 100 pounds at the stockyards; earlier this week, the price was $52.10. 
It is increases like this, and a similar boost in hog prices, which contributed to the boost in food pl"ices-1.2 percent each in January and February, according to the Consumer Price Index. Beef prices while pork prices went up 2.6 percent. 
Part of the problem in February was bad weather. Even without the storms, however, farmers have been selling fewer animals. 
In 1975, there were 132 million cattle on U.S. ranches and farms, a record. Prices dropped and produ­cers cut herds. The American Meat Institute says 3 percent less beef was produced in 1977 than in 1976; production this year is expected to be 2 percent below last year. 
USDA figures released last week showed that there were only 1 percent more hogs and pigs as of March 1 than there were a year ago; and increase of 11 percent had been expected. Supermarket News, a trade publication, quoted Robert Bellinghause of the USDA as saying producers apparently Instead of holding sows and breed­ing them or raising them to full growth, they sold the animals early. 
The first annual 



Miss American 

Dream pageant 
will be held in October in New York City. Women ages 18-25 are eligible. 
Judging will be based on poise, appearance, and private judges interviews. There will be no talent competition. 
For application and further infor­mation write: Dream Images, Inc.; 333 E. 49th St.-#D; New York, New York, 10017. 


-~----------------------------­





U.S. Steel 
price hike criticized 
WASHINGTON (AP] • The Ca.·­
ter administration angrily criticized 
as inflationary a price increase 
announced yesterday by U.S. Steel 
Corp., and disputed the reasons 
given for the increase. 
Despite the administration's cri­ticism, Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. also announced it was increasing its prices by the same amount, $10.50 per ton. U.S. Steel is the nation's largest producer and Wheeling-Pittsburgh is the ninth largest. 
Both corporations said they were raising prices to offset increased costs from the recent collective bargaining agreement in the coal industry. However, the adminis­tration said the steel increase was more than double what could be justified by the coal agreement. 
Other producers also were expected to follow U.S. Steel's lead. 
The increase, the second this year,likely will find its way quickly into prices of goods made of steel, such as autos and appliances. The price hike announcements coin­cided with new concern that infla­tion in the economy is worsening. 
The administration also 
expressed disappointment that 
company officials gave no indica­
tion that a price hike was imminent 
during a Monday meeting with 
government officials. That meet­
ing here was to discuss the Carter 
administration's new anti-inflation 
program. 
The administration, obviously concerned that other steelmakers will also quickly raise prices, urged producers to "seriously consider" the implications of the price increase for both the industry and for inflation generally, now running between 6 percent and 7 percent a year. 
The U.S. Steel price increase, effective with April 1 shipments, will boost revenues 2.2 percent, but the effect on individual products will vary according to their base price, the company said. 
The increase, if followed by the rest of the industry, would mean a raise in steel prices of 8 percent just since the beginning of the year. U.S. Steel announced a 5.5 percent increase on some major products just last month. 
"Such inflationary price increases seriously endanger the continuation" of industry's reco­very from the beating it had been taking recently from competition from low-priced steel imports, the administration's Council on Wage and Price Stability said. 
The council said its statement was approved by Charles L. Schultze, chairman of the Presi­dent's Council of Economic Advi­sers, which gave the criticism greater weight than if the council had simply issued it on its own. Schultze is the top economic advi­ser to Carter, who was out of the country when the price increase was announced. 
U.S. Steel, the nation's largest steel producer, said its increase was necessary to offset higher production costs resulting from the new miner's contract in the coal industry. 

Mary Gray, math professor at American University Washing­
ton, D.C., spoke las4 night on sex and mathematics~ As a part ot the Am~rican Lecture Series, Gray's lecture c_entered on why there IS such a low number of women in the f1eld of mathematics. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck 
Polls prove people wish to pull troops from Korea 
NEW YORK [AP] • President Carter's plan to pull U.S. ground troops out of Soutli Korea is supported by a substa11tial majority of Americans, an Associated Press-NBC News poll shows. . 
But the public doesn't think much of Carter's plan to give $800 million worth of military equipment -now used by U.S. troops -to the South Korean armed forces. 
The AP-NBC News survey, taken by telephone March 21-22, found 61 percent favored Carter's plan to gradually remove the approxi­mately 33,000 U.S. ground troops from the Korean peninsula. 
Twenty-seven percent opposed the pullout, with 12 percent not sure. 
The plan has gained substantial support in the last seven months. An NBC News poll in August 1977 showed 45 percent of Americans supported the pullout, 37 opposed with the remainder undecided. 
Support for the move is up 16 percentage points, while opposition dropped by 10 points. 
The reason for the change is not clear, but it coincided with the 
Contract approved 
[Continued from page 1] own president, have been telling us to pull the pickets," he said. "But we feel we're 100 percent legal and 100 percent right." Construction miners met with rank and file production miners, who said they understood the situation urged them to continue the pickets, Hensley said. Melvin Whitson, president of the construc­
tion local, opposes the picketing and has recommended it stop. 
"The rules and regulations of our union require him to take his action," Hensley said. "It's not personal. He has tried to stop us. We don't like to defy our officers. This isn't out practice, but in this situation we feel we must." 
Among the ·Operations closed by yesterday's pickets were Amax' Chinook and Minnehaha mines and Peabody's Hawthorne, Dugger, Latta mines, Miller Prep and the Jasonville shops. 
widening of investigations of South Korean influence-buying in Wash­ington, and South Korean busi­nessman Tongsun Park's return to the nation's capital to testify about his role in the scandal. 
Americans don't like the plan to leave the $800 million in military equipment behind for the South Koreans when U.S. troops with­draw. 
Thirty-two percent of the 1,604 ­adults interviewed supported the turnover of equipment, which must approved by Congress, while 56 percent opposed it. Twelve percent were not sure. 
This appears to be largely a reflection of public sentiment against arms sales in general. The Korean deal is not an arms sale, but a transfer of equipment that would most probably be junked when U.S. troops leave. 
Nevertheless, most opposition to the transfer comes from those who are against all U.S. arms sales overseas. Fifty-five· percent of those who opposed the transfer of equipment to South Korea oppose all arms sales. Only 38 percent of those who opposed the transfer favor at least some U.S. arms sales abroad. 
The $800 million estimate of the value of the equipment -tanks, anti-tank missiles, helicopters and ammunition -was made in a letter from Carter to Congress. A Pentagon spokesman said the esti­mate was based on the replacement cost of the equipment, taking inflation into account and subtract­ing the use already made of the arms. 
Thursday, March 30, 1978 the ObServer 



White House to propose alternate farm legislation 
WASHINGTON (AP] • The ad­ministration, under pressure from militant farmers and facing a congressional bill it considers too costly, announced steps yesterday designed to strengthen farm in­come and reduce agricultural surpluses. 
The changes, being made admin· istratively under existing law, were announced by Vice President Walter F. Mondale. They include: 
-Payments to farmers for idling an additional four million acres of feed grains this year. For com farmers with a normal yield of 100 bushels an acre, this translates into payments Q{ $100 an acre. 
-Payments to cotton farmers for idling an estimated one million acres from 1978 production. This means payments of $100 an acre for the producer who has an average yield of SOO pounds an acre. 
-A government loan rate of $4.50 
a bushel for 1978 soybeans, up 
from $3.50 last year. 
-Permission for wheat farmers to let livestock graze up to 40 percent of their 1976 acreage but no more than SO acres and collect payments equal to SO cents a bushel for what they normally would have harvest­ed. 
Mondale criticized emergency 
farm legislation now before Con­
gress and said President Carter will 
veto it in its present form. 
•'The administration cannot and will now accept legislation which resembles the hastily constructed farm bill recently passed by the 

Mandatory softball meeting 
There will be a mandatory cap­tain's meeting for the Men's Interhall12" Softball Friday at 4:45 
p.m. in the Varsity Football Audi­torium in the ACC. 
Frlay 3:00 -6:00 3-4 s• Been 3-6 so• Wine 
Senate,'' he said. 
"That bill would ruin the struc­ture of our farm programs, subject farmers to excess government reg­ulation, and over the long term destroy the export markets on which we rely for a mjor share of our farm income," Mondale said. 
Furthermore, he said, the farm bill now in a conference committee would add $2 billion to $3 billion "to a budget that is already in deep deficit." And he said it would set off "a wage-price spiral like we experienced between 1972 and 197S." 
There was return criticism from 
Congress for the administration 
measures. 
Sen. Herman Talmadge, D-Ga., chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, said: "I am deeply disappointed that the administra­tion did not go far enough to provide real income assistance to farmers this lear." 
And Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, ranking Republican on the commit­tee, said the plan "should be a clear signal to American farmers ­and consumers as well · that the administration really doesn't care." 
Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland, who joined Mondale at a news conference, said that if the congressional bill reaches Carter in its present form, there is "no question that he will veto it." 
However, Bergland said the administration is willing to work with Congress in possibly raising target prices used to compute federal payments to wheat growers when market prices decline. 
The current wheat target is $3 a bushel and Bergland said that a reasonable increase might be to $3.40 or $3.50 a bushel. 
The changes could boost returns to farmers for crops this year by $3 billion to $4 billion, according to administration estimates. 

1979 Sophomore literary Festival 
Any fresmen interested in applying for chainnan or committee positions on the 1979 Sophomore · literary Festival Councff ·diotifd leave their names in the english office (309 O'Shag) by April 7. 


the observer

Birch Bayh denies :
:






Park contributions 
•


WASHINGTON [API -IN Sen. 
Birch Bayh said yesterday he 
doesn't believe Tongsun Park con­
tributed $1,500 to $1,800 to Bayh's 
1974 re-electin campaign. Park 
reportedly told the Senate Ethics 
Committee that he believes he gave 
that amount to Bayh's campaign. 
"It's for damn sure I didn't know 
about it," the Indiana Democrat 
told reporters. He added he does 
not believe any of his aides 
received such a contribution either. 
"I just don't believe it happen­ed," he said. 
Park reportedly told the Senate investigators his "best recollec­tion" was that he gave the money to Jason S. Berman, who was then Bayh's administrative assistant. 
• Berman told reporters "I catego­rically deny" taking a Bayh contri­bution from Park. 
Bayh, who said the Ethics Com­mittee had informed him that Park made such an allegation, told reporters he believes publicity on the allegation is as damaging to his reputation as if he had taken the money. 
''Given the total context of things," Bayh said, "that is just about as damning in the minds of the public today as if he had stuck 18 $100 bills in my coat pocket." 
The Senate Ethics Committee announced that Park had confirmed during closed-door questioning that he gave a total of $21,500 to past or present senators, including $13,000 to three the committee did not name. 
Co-chairman Adlai E. Stevenson, D·Ill., said one of the three broke law by not reporting money he took from Park and said the other two told the committee they have no knowledge of getting money from Park. 
Park told U.S. prosecutors in Seoul in January that he believed 
·In St. Louis 
In ~uest of the Witch's Broom 

bryan ·gruley 

On the weekend the Notre Dame Fighting Irish almost won their second major national championship in 1978, six ND fans piled into a '77 Caprice Classic and headed for St. Louis, Missouri. Their destination was to be the site of the NCAA Basketball Championship Finals. The fans--Caz, the Kid, Jean, Cindy, Fitz, and Mac--were two Notre Dame students, two Saint Mary's students, a University of Michigan student, and a twenty year-old Detroit Edison employee. The fans were expecting a loud and frenzied weekend. 
They began as a group of three on a Friday evening, March 24, in Detroit. Fitz, Mac, and the Kid, driving two cars, one of which would be left in South Bend. On their way they stopped at various stores to stock themselves with what they deemed as neccessary for an overnight drive to St. Louis--beer, milk, a dozen Dunkin Donuts, english muffin bread, crackers, beer nuts, and, of course, peanut butter. All the way they talked excitedly of their plans for the weekend. Saturday morning they'd get their motel rooms nice and early, then head for the Budweiser factory to get psyched for the basketball game. After watching ND win, they would spend the next two-and-a-half days in '78 pre-Cotton Bowl fashion, swinging at parties, barhopping, eating junk, staying out all night, and obnoxiously boasting all over town that the Irish were as usual the very best and would in fact stomp 'Kentucky or Arkansas by an astronomical margin come Monday night. They would squeeze in an Easter Mass. Ami of course they would have to make time to visit the Arch in St. Louis, so they could ascend it and see the neato view from the top. They couldn't wait. 
..... 

After leaving the Kid's car in South Bend, they travelled to Crown Point, Indiana to pick up the remainder of their entourage, Caz, Jean, and Cindy. Upon arriving in Crown Point, the Kid realized he'd absent-mindedly left half the stuff he'd needed, including some money and his precious hair dryer, in his car back in South Bend. But the Kid was admirably resilient, even without his hair dryer. "I'll have a great time anyway," he said. 
The weather wasn't very good for driving. Freezing rain coated the highways with a white, slippery, two-inch thick ice frosting. Cars on Interstate 55 South were scattered in all directions, rear-ends in the ditches, sideways slid off the road and down the embankment, standing with wheels in full spin perpendicular to the line of the road, blocking lanes and traffic. On 
bridges, the cars would perform silly impromptu ballets, five and six of them pirouetting in place, all arranged in a comic, slow-motion confusion. Semis lined the shoulders, their drivers having sur­rendered to the ice. Caz, driving the six in the small Caprice, was unwilling to surrender. With a deft precision, he made the subtle pump-and-slide steering wheel movements that kept the car crawling between the white lines and the stranded cars littering the road. The Kid made an astute observation. "Just like when we went to Dallas," he said. "Bringin' our own weather with us.'' At this he smiled goofily and rubbed his hands together in anticipation ofthe glorious weekend. They crawled onward. 
Sleeping in a Caprice with six people in it was not easy. But the night's beer consumption demanded that the Kid catch a few zs. He turned and shifted in his comer of the back seat, unable to find a sleeping position. F'mally he came upon a solution--he sat up straight, grade school style, tucked his hands in his sweatshirt pocket, and hung his head on his chest. He slept this way for about an hour. Upon awaking with a terrific pain in his neck, he made . another astute observation. "Ah hell," he said. "TltiS' hurts." 
¥¥1f 

They arrived in St. Louis about six-thirty Saturday morning. From the bridge over the Mississippi River: the six ND fans gasped at the Arch, the "Gateway to the West,'' looming like a huge phantom against the dismal white sky. The small trees and lawn surrounding the Arch were invisible in a white fog shroud. The six fans marvelled at the size of the Arch, promised themselves to return, and passed into the city. 
Of course the six were lost in the city. Instead of immediately obtaining a map, they drove around quite randomly, trying various streets and avenues in quest of the Rodeway Inn, where they were to pick up their game tickets. They drove hither and yon, squinting at streetsigns and guessing on turns, finally stumbling upon the Rodeway. Their tickets in hand, the six now began their search for a cheap motel, continuing in their confused, mapless · fashion. Jumping from gas station to gas station, they obtained directions to a number of motels, but these were all either too expensive or too dingy for the tastes of the six fans. Finally they decided on a Motel 6 on the northwest side of town, and with a newly-obtained map, drove there and settled in. The entire procedure took them approximately three hours, and they'd travelled a thirty minute distance from the Arch. Now there would be no time for the Bud factory, no crazed psyching for the game. Instead the six fans showered and sipped four percent beers. The Kid borrowed Caz's hair dryer to use after his shower, though he was sure he could've made due even without this most essential commodity. 
'Jflf..lf 
At the Checkerdome, a half-hour before 

game time, they waited for the Kid to pick 
up his ticket at Will Call. A friend had left 
it for him. Here the Kid came upon what 
he thought to be an amusing truth. "Hey, 
Cazzo," he yelled. "Note how Duke is the 
Blue Devils--De Paul was the Blue De­
mons, and we beat 'em by,20!" He rubbed 
his hands together excitedly. An old man 
standing behind him in line said, "That 
means we're better." He was wearing a 
blue Duke cap. 
And the Kid, who was usually so quick 

with the comeback, who in Dallas had 
boldly come face-to-face with cowboy-hat­
ted old men and called Earl Campbell a 
plethora of vulgar names, now could think 
of nothing to say to thts simple, confident, 
nonsensical statement. "Uh--," he stam­
mered, and then turned away towards the 
front of the line. 
¥1f¥ 

Their seats were gooa ones, nve in the front row of the lower arena, second level; a sixth seat ten rows back. Positioned at almost mid-court, they afforded a great view ofthe game. However, to the chagrin ofthe Kid, they weren't in the official Notre Dame cheering section. The Kid was one of those hyped-up, nervous types who can't stand still anywhere, let alone at a basketball game, and who for some inexplainable reason, perhaps sheer im· maturity, liked to scream and stamp and go generally berserk a~ certain sports events. However, among quieter fans, adults; intellectuals and the like, he felt a certain guilt at raising his voice in the least. In the ND cheering section, this gu~lt was forgotten in the noise and frenzy. Now the Kid sat alone in the sixth seat, saying· little, feeling awkward, gripping the chair arms tightly. At a particularly tense moment, a pretty girl sitting next to him suddenly reached over and grabbed his knee. It had been shaking widly without the Kid knowing, annoying the girl. "Stop it," she demanded. "It shakes me JIP·" The Kid responded with a nervous laugh, embaras­sed. ''Sorry,'' he said weakly. He watched the rest of the game with as much stillness as he could muster. He screamed little. He concentrated on his knee. He sweated a lot. Meanwhile, police officers a few sections to his right told the ND cheering section to sit down and shut up. 
lflflf.. 

The Kid had brought a camera. Photographs, he believed, would later help him explain to the public what happened when Notre Dame won its second national championship in the same year. He loaded it with good film and prepared for lots of good shooting. On the fifth shot he took, one of ND Band Director Fr. George Wiskirchen, the camera snapped and the shutter refused to work correctly. No more pictures this weekend. The Kid shook with anger. Now he would have nothing to show the public. 
.... 

At halftime, the Kid nervously chatted with his friend Mac, who'd come to sit in an empty seat next to his. He told Mac that Notre Dame would surely come back. He told him he couldn't believe what was happening. He went over everything that he thought could possibly happen in t~ second half. He wrung his hands and l~t the nervous, giddy feeling tighten in the muscles of his throat. The Kid wanted very badly for ND to win. 
"NO's gotta pull this out," he told Mac. "The whole damn weekend rides on it! C'MON IRISH---I wanna PARTY!. 
..... 
After the game, the six decided they wouldn't stay for Monday's final games. Suddenly they remembered books, jobs, and long, cramped rides in beer-smelling cars. Outside, the wind blew rain and sleet through the dead parking lot as though the end of Spring Break meant the end of spring itself. Leaving the others to watch the Kentucky-Arkansas game, Fitz, Mac, and the Kid headed back to the Motel 6 to retrieve the Monday night tickets they'd so confidently left behind. Some people would pay well for them. Three times they made mistakes driving to the motel, and when they finally returned to the Checker­dome, the Kentucky game was over and most of the people had gone. Fitz and the Kid ran half a mile through a cold drizzle to make sure they got there in time to make the Big Sale. And they did, rushing into the Checkerdome ticket lobby panting and excited, the Kid immediately jumping to the Big Sale. He gave a well-dressed middle-aged Kentucky fan six tickets to the NCAA Championship for exactly twenty dollars apiece. Later that night he would hear this on a local newscast: " ... tickets to the finals were selling this afternoon for prices ranging from thirty dollars to two hundred ... " 
lf'Jflf 
their vans and cars to scream their beloved 
"Mer!? Burl? Shirl?" Campbell into the 
asphalt, finally joining beers and arrns and 
green-gold cowboy hats in a long chorus­
line traipsing through all them good ol' 
boys in bold, frivolous, cocky song: "Hey 
hey you Horns, you Horns--we don't give a 
flying .... " And in St. Louis, the Kid sat 
like a vegetable, half asleep, beer dangl­
ing, bored, trying to get that feel of a 
splurge. Someone woke him from a snooze 
and told him it was time to go. 
"What?" he said, blinking his eyes and 
righting himself in the sofa. "I wanna 
drink some beersI" 
lf¥¥ Easter Sunday. Without car, without strength, the six did nothing all day. The girls got a ride to a girlfriend's house for dinner while the four guys slept until one 
p.m. They sat around, watched television, waited for Z.P. to bring back the car he'd borrowed. No Mass would be squeezed in. Fitz and the Kid walked two blocks to a 7-11 and bought a case of beer. This they polished off during the remainder of the day, lying back lazy and worthless on their 
·motel beds to watch the International Superstars Competition and The Whard of Oz. consuming peanut butter-and-bologna sandwiches and playing euchre. Z.P. brought the car. The six piled in with beers tucked in their pockets, ready to go see a movie. They sat through Star Wan, each for at least his or her third time. The Kid needed these movies for some reason; Wizard of Oz came at what seemed a perfect time. The Kid had needed 
*Observer · 




Features· 
Since they wouldn't be staying long, some sort of splurge was necessary. Steak and Ale splurge. Not much, but a good meal. The Kid had indulged in a similar splurge in Dallas the preceding January. The Kid and his friends had enjoyed a delicious meal the night before the Cotton Bowl game--good, juicy meat, hot bread, huge salads. In St. Louis, they tried to eat salty french onion soup, and begged the waiter to bring bread when already half the main course was completed. The Kid's filet was tough. But he munched on regardless, trying to get that feel of a splurge. The feeling finally came with the bringing of the check. 
Then there was the Party. The Kid's friend Z.P., who'd gotten him the tickets, knew of a big bash being thrown in the Holiday Inn North. Z.P. and the six checked it out at once, finding a locked door behind which no party could be heard. They filed into someone's room to wait for the party. There they joined a group of older ND fans for a few drinks, everyone trading ideas on the day's game, on St. Louis in general, on the weather, on the upcoming Kentucky-Duke final. The Kid smiled and stood tall for the older ND fans--impressive. After all, they were giving him beers. The Kid wasn't nearly so impressive when the group moved to the room where the Party was supposed to be held. A few older men and a couple of younger women were standing around in there, mixing drinks and talking. The Kid sank into a sofa like a vegetable taking root. Said nothing, sipped his beer, fell into sporadic sleep. Around him everyone kept talking ND-Duke, St. Lr .tis, the weather, the chantpionship, the champion­ship, the championship...the Kid remem­bering nothing, thinking nothing, remem­bering not where he'd been two-and-a-half months hence, wild and obnoxious, so obnoxious, in the bright sunny parking lot of the Cotton Bowl, day of the game, constant beer in hand, the Kid and friends lashing out at the bypassing Texas fans with the burnt orange caps and "Hook 'em" signs, comdemning their cool south­em complacency, climbing on the roofs of something to keep him going Sunday, to keep him interested. All afternoon, 'I'be Whard of Oz hung in the approaching eve like a promise. The Kid needed to see the Tinman chop through that door again, needed to hear the Wicked Witch of the West scream as she melted into her black shroud, needed to see Dorothy lying in bed, home again, and "Toto, too" in her arms, never thinking of the old hag on the bicycle who no doubt would be returning for the dog at any moment...And Stu 
..
Wan, too, was reassuring. Obi-Wan died his honroable death, the Rebellion got to the Death Star, and Han Solo succumbed to his soft heart one more time. The sound in the theatre was quite bad, but at least the Kid could see one thing for sure: Luke Skywalker had won again ... meanwhile, 
Z.P. rolled beer cans down the dark theatre aisles and listened for them to bang into .something. This amused him. 
lf1tf.lf 
"Damn," Fitz said. "Man, look at this weather--we could be out here now just playin' frisbee and gettin' psyched for the game tonight.'' It was Monday morning. The six were in the sunny, warm parking lot of the Motel 6, packing the Caprice. They were ready to leave St. Louis. Heading out Interstate 40 East, the Kid tried to think through all the things he'd have to do when he returned to school. He grimaced, turned his face out the window. The Arch stood in the sunlight now, broad, white, and clear against the blue morning sky. The little trees and lawn surrounding it were in sharp focus, green and rustling slightly in the breeze. The Kid watched the Arch until it seemed to be standing ('-ectly over the car, the Kid craning his n..:ck to see straight up out of the side rear window. The Arch was clear and awesome one second, almost touching him, over­whelming, when the glare of the sun encroached on the Kid's line of sight, and the \'ision became an intense yellow blur. The Kid turned to Fitz, and rubbing his hands together, smiling, he said, "Soon as we get into lliinois, F'rtzer, let's get some beers. It's norrnal six-point beer over there." Fitz chuckled, agreed. They looked to the bridge. They crossed the Mississippi. They crawled onward. 

--------------------.---------·------------------------------------------------------------------------­
the ObServer Thursday, March 30,1978 
Man's rights violated 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building

Court orders ne~w trial 
INDIANAPOUS [API • A 20-year 
old Hammond man who said he 
didn't know what he was doing 
when he pleaded guilty to murder 
four years ago won a new trial 
yesterday, despite objections that it 
could destroy Indiana's plea bar­
gain system. 
In other court action, the Indiana 
Court of Appeals cleared the way 
for the Indiana State Medical 
Licensing Board to prohibit chiro­
practors form administering certain 
medical tests. 
The Indiana Supreme Court or­dered a new trial for Steven R. Mack, who was 15 when he and a 16-year-old companion, Fritz R. Marshall, were charged with first­degree murder in the 1973 stabbing death of Alicine Marshall in Floyd County. 
The high court said it couldn't tell whether Mack knew what he was doing when he later pleaded guilty to a'reduced charge because a court transcript of the proceeding didn't show whether he was advis­ed of his rights. 
In a brief opposing a new trial, the state complained that no trial court would accept a plea bargain agreement if those who confess their crimes in return for a lighter sentence are permitted to appeal 

years later, when the evidence and 
witnesses against them are una vail 
able for a new trial. 
In January 1974, 10 days before 

Mack was scheduled to stand trial, 
he accepted a plea bargain offer. 
He pleaded guilty to second-degree 
murder rather than risk being 
convicted and sentenced to life in 
prison on the first-degree murder 
charge. 
Records of the hearing where the plea was entered showed! that Judge Paul J. Tegart asked Mack general questions about his deci­sion to plead guilty, inquiring whether Mack had consulted with his attorney and whether he had any questions. 
After he was sentenced to 15-25 years in prison, Mack tried unsuc­cessfully to withdraw the plea. When Tegart refused, Mack ap­pealed to the Supreme Court on grounds he had not been informed of his constitutional rights. 
The high court agreed that court records must show that Mack was told that he could be tried by a jury, confront his accusers, refuse to say anything that might incriminate him and that the state would have of prove him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. 
In the chiropractors case, the appeals court lifted an injunction preventing the Indiana Medical Licensing Board from enacting regulati~n_sthat limit the scope of chiropractic practice or specify which acts constitue malpractice by a chiropractor or are punishable as felonies. 
11te Marion Superior Court issu­ed the injunction at the request of the Indiana State Chiropractic As­sociation and the Indiana Society of Chiropractic Physicians. The or­ganizations, which represent about 180 Indiana, chiropractors, filed suit after the board passed a regulation in 1976 preventing chiropractors form performing cer­tain medical tests, including blood tests or pap smears. 
The organizations claimed that medical doctors are prejudiced against chiropractors and that be­cause of the new state regulation, 
insurance  companies  refused  to  
pay chiropractors  for  performing  
medical tests.  

The appeals court didn't respond to those complaints, ruling instead that any suit challenging the regu­lations must be filed by an indivi­dual chiropractor whose practice was damaged by the rules. 
SMC to offer two 


SUitSHIItE PROIOTIOitS AltO IIOTRE DAlE STUDEIIT UltiOit PRESEIIT 
BOB SEGER 
AND THE 
Sl.VER BI.LLET BAND 

week summer art workshop 
Saint Mary's art department, for the third year, is offering a two week summer program at Redbud Trail Camp in Buchanan, MI. The workshop, which is open to any 
•:ollege student, will run from May 22 through June 3. 
The four intensive workshop !;essions, for which three credits will be given, are in raku ceramics, printmaking and drawing, and photography. The cost of $310 <:overs tuition, room and board for the full two weeks. Also included is transportation from the Saint Mary's campus to the Redbud Trail Retreat and back. 
I Raku ceramics will be taught by James Paradis; painting and draw· il1g by Sr. Cecelia Ann Kelly; printmaking by Carol Ann Carter 
1and photography by Douglas Tyler. 1 There is a $15 additional fee for the ceramics and photography and a $20 fee for printmaking. The working day will bee 8:30 a.m.· noon and 1-4:30 p.m. with an additional hour in the evening for guest lectures, discussions and films. 
Enrollment for each class will be limited to ten and applicants will be · a1:cepted in order of registration. Interested students should send a $25 deposit by Sunday to Gallery Director Michele Fricke at Saint Mary's. She is the coordinator fo the workshop and can be reached 
b:f phone at 284-5717 or 284-4074. 

N.D. Senior Class Pr~~sents: 
An Indoor Football JPicnic Thurs. March 30At The 'Pit'c~f the A.C.C. 
Featured: Highlightso~tour4Years & All Bowl Ga,mes Beer &Mixed Drinks May b~e Purchased Must Presesnt Sr. I.D. Card Time: 8pm.-12am., dmission $1 
JOB INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN THE HI\Y AND AUGUST ClASSES • •. • •••• .AirY Wll:l INTEND TO KA.VE IN'l1:RV1!WS I'IJST HAVE A COMPLETED PROF!~ (REGIS1RAnON) FORM ON FILE AT ntE PLACEHKNT BURIWJ ••• 
REGISTRAnON, INTERVIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITERA111RE ARE IN ROOM 213, f'alN BUILDlNG,,,,,,,,,PLACEfoENT BUREAU IS OPEN 8:00A.M. TO 
S :00 P,M,, K>rm.\Y THROUGH FRIDA.Y,, •••• ,, .CONSULT THE PUCEI"ENT /'IUruAL FOR ADDITIOICAL INFORK\TION REG.\RDLNG INTERVIEW AND PIACEfoENT SERVICES 
AND PllOCZDUR!:S • 
YOU KJST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSOKA.LLY. 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8:00A.M. TO 5:60, nJESDAY THROUGH FRIDAY. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED POR WEEK OF APRIL 3. Sla.-UPS WILL COHI£NCE 'nJESDAY, 
MARCH 28. 
AJ.IIo\ICSCIJI­
~U_4_ ~ 
X 
X X X 
The Lille Pellovahip Inc. * 6-week ewrmer program available to dl Juniora, Senior. and graduate atu.denu. S.aic: education.-1 pattern h the 
. dteration of practical field vork in community-bau~d 
human aervice p'rograma with evaluation and diacuaaion  
at each unit'a  n•idential home center.  Lille Progr11111  
for aummer of 1978 will be held in w..hinston.  D.C.;  
Colombia, Scandiaavia and the Middle !sat.  Citlurwhtp  
not ~equirecr:----­ 
~  Gl\'11 Coreoration *  
TUES.  Bin 11!:10 and Cl.  Flrumcial Servlceai Hanufacturina,  
Blinking, lnaunnce.  For:  Sa lea Engineer.,  Location•:  
Nationwide.  Cith~n.hip required.  
X  X  General MUle CorporUion  *  
B in Lib. Art• and Bua. Admin.  For:  Coanodity Her~  

X 
X 
X 
X 
~ 
X
X 
X 
X
TUES. X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
I 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
~. 
April 6 THlJKS. 
X 
X 
X 
April 6 
THURS. 
X I 
April 7 
FR]. 
J 
X X 
clwndher, Location•: HinneapoH1, Kan.a• City, Gnat Falh, Ogden, Stockton, Buffalo, Chtc.go. Perm. au. Visa required, 
NCR (National Canh Reghter) * Bin all dhcipllnes. Computen and Terminah. For: Mllrketing~Sylteml! Servtc:e1. Locations: South Bend area with referral to other locations. Citizenahtp required, 
Stanley Consultants, lnc * 8 in EE. I£ and C!. Conaulting Finn. For: Engr po1t~
I tiona. Locationa: follacatine, lA, Cithen.hip required. 
U,S, Navy ~ Officer Programs. B in Lib. Arts, BBo\ and MIA, !MD in all EG" and SC dhcipl tnea. 
Indiana Farm Bur-eau Co~operat1ve * All BBA. Fum :)uppliea. All DBA. for Sales and HaMge~ ment. 8 in Acct for Office Hanager~Ocmtroller. Loca~ tiona: Anywhere 1n Indiana. Perm. Re1. Vha required. 
HI::Donald 11 Restaurants All DBA. Fut ]roods. For: Management Traineel, Locationa: Chicago eree. Perm.Rea.Viaa required. 
Pint National Bank of Louisville B in Acct, Fin end !1Kt. 
Federal Hhhvay J.dminiatration* BH tn CE. Highway Engineering. Highw.y Engr trainee. Locations: Natic•nwide, Citizeftlhip required. 
Timberline Syatan!!. * Bltn Econ. BM •nd MBA. Computer Software. For: Technical Sal... Locationa: Nationwide. Perm. Rea. Vi.. requi r~d. 
Scott Paper Compa.!!I, B in Lib. Arta end Bu11. Admin for Consumer Salea Rep. 
Siemene:~Allia, Inc. Formerly the Electrical Producta Group of AllieeChalmere. 1!1 in EE and foE. For: Slle1 end Application !ngineere. Locattona: Nationwide, Citizen1hip required. 
Vet11rana Adminiatntion Re1cheduled from January 30. 
Carsill. Incorporated * BM in all dbciplinn for Colm!Odity HlrcMndhing . B in Accounting for Accountants, Locations: Nationwide, primarily Ktnneapo,Ua. Perm. Res, Viae reqUired. 
Ellerbe Inc • • Archtt~c:ta and lngineara. 8 in Arch. BH in te. D, Cl. For: Entry level ttngtneera. Locationa: Bloomington, ttl resion.al office: vill refer to other locationa. Perm. Rae. Vha required. 
Coachllllln Industril!a * All B!A for Sale1 Traineea leedi113 to runagement po1itiona, B in HI!:• JtUO, EE for Production. Locations: Middlebury, IN. Perm, Rea. Vi sa required. 
Hushu Aircrdt C(1mpany * 
Bi"f in fiE. Hiuile Systems. For: Thermo Analyst; Building Thermo ~dele; All phaae;! of Hiaaile Syatema, Locationa: Canog• Park, CA. Cith.enahip re~uired. 
Gould Inc,. Ensine Parte Dlvialon * BM in Met and roE, BearinR Manufacturer. For: Project Engineer, Product Dev, Location: Cleveland,OH. 
Perm. Rea, Visa required, 
Camcar Division of Textron. Inc, * 
II in IC end ~10. B in ""t •nd Mkt. For: Development Training Prog:ram f~r po1ltion1 ln ..tea, appllcatio01 engineering, qWility control, product deaip:n and develop~ ment, manufacturing, aupervtaion. Locations: IL; lA; IN; VA. Perm. Rea. Viu required. 
NEW EHPI..OYERS SCHIJUUD SINCE PUBLICATION OF SPRING M\NUAL. 
---It's coming.....-------------. 
Superior taste in a light beer. 
Student Gouernment Cabinet Positions 
The 1978 · 79 Student Gouernment is now taking applications for its cabinet and executiue aide positions, All those interested can pick up an application and a list "f positions at the 
Student Gouernment Offices · 2nd ffoor of Lafortune. 
All applications must be returned by Monday, April 3rd. 


NEW YORK [AP] • The Ideal Toy Corp. is removing stunt motor­cycles and other toys that bear Eve! Knievel's name from the U.S. market because of his conviction last year for beating his publicist. 
"Based on what happened last fall, there's no reason to continue production," Zeke Rose, a com­pany spokesman, said yesterday. 
Knievel, 38, is serving a six­month sentence in Santa Monica, CA, for beating his former press agent, Sheldon Saltman, with a baseball bat. He is to be released on probation in about one month. 
When Ideal first considered the question of discontinuing the marketing of Knievel toys, Rose said, ''The company recognizes that it sells its products to children and that it has a responsibility to the children and their parents." 
Rose said the firm plans to continue to sell the toys, which include a stunt motorcycle that does flips and a canyon sky cycle, in Germany and the United King­dom. He said European sales represent "a very small propor­tion" of total sales. 
He could not say whether Ideal will market the Knievel toys in this country in the future. He said late last year, however, that sales in 1977 were not as good as they had been. 
A licensing contract that permits Ideal to use Knievel's name in exchange for a royalty fee "remains unchanged," Rose said. 
The Knievel toys netted the company $100 million in the last five years and :were "terrific sell­ers" in the past, Rose said. He said Knievel received between 2.5 percent and 10 percent of sales on the toys. 
Thursday, March 30, 1978 the observer 

Woman recoveringfrom blizzard injuries
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] • Doctors estimate Teresa Kimble needs another four weeks of hospitaliza­tion to recover from physical and emotional 'njuries suffered during the Janua y blizzard. 
Mrs. Kimble, 23, lost a 20-month son, her feet, fingers, thumbs and part of her buttocks after being trapped outside the family's mobile home in rural Shirley for several hours on Jan. 26. 
"I know that some day I'll get out of here, but I can't stand the waiting," said Mrs. Kimble, who must still be fitted with artificial limbs. 
Her husband, Michael, said he's proud of her, "She did some things that I probably wouldn't have been able to do." 
But Mrs. Kimble is still second guessing her actions. "I wish I stayed inside the trailer and thought to turn the oven on in the kitchen,'' she said. 
"Why take my baby?" asked Mrs. Kimble, about her son, Timothy, who died from exposure. "He didn't do a thing wrong and I didn't do nothing wrong. I wish God had taken me instead.'' Mr. Kimble was stranded in Indian­apolis after work when the blizzard struck. Mrs. Kimble awoke at 3 
a.m. and noticed the trailer was cold. The wind had blown out the heater's pilot light and was making it impossible to keep it lit, she recalled. 
Finally Mrs. Kimble decided to try and make it to the safety of her husband's grandmother's house located only SO yards away from the trailer. Heavy snow and strong winds, however, made the trip impossible. 
"The baby was so scared," she said. "He cried and screamed and wouldn't hold still." 
She tried to return to the trailer, but the door wouldn't open. Mrs. 
Kimble kicked it shut upon leaving 
to be sure the wind wouldn't blow it 
open while she was gone. 
The mother and child just sat on the porch as she tried to keep him protected from the gusting winds in freezing temperatures. She esti­mates they were on the porch for , two to three hours. Finally, she --began to beat the metal door with her hands and feet, kicking a hole large enough to crawl through with 
Timothy. 
Her son was apparently dead by 
the time help arrived, although her 
resuers wouldn't tell her. When 
the coroner .arrived, he confirmed 
the boy's death. • 
Mrs. Kimble was transported to 
New Castle Hospital, where her 
frostbitten skin began to turn 
black. Last month, she was 
transferred here. 
''Frostbite is much like a burn 
but it progresses," said Dr. David 
Larson, the plastic surgeon treating 
the woman. "It freezes the tissue 
and vessels. It's difficult to tell 
whether they're dead or alive." 
Friends have started a fund to 
help pay medical bills. She has 
medical coverage that pays approx­
imately 80 percent, but the medical 
expenses are running at least $200 
per day. 
Gift-Pax samples 

tor students 
The Student Union Services 
Commission will distribute free 
Student Gift-Pax to women 
ND/SMC student on Monday. 
The Gift-Pax are advertising 
samples donated to the Student 
Union by Student Gift-Pax, Inc. 
The package, one to a student, will 
be available in the LaFortune 
Ballroom from 12:45-3:30 p.m. on 
Monday. 

Your college degree will get you started in life after college. Army ROTC will give you a head start while you're still in college. 
• 
Army ROTC offers you manage­and new career opportunities upon ment training. Leadership ex­graduation as a leader in the active perience. And a commission as an Army, Reserve 01~ National Guard. Army officer. Extra credentials Here's how to get started: 
TIE ElllY STilT 
Start Army ROTC during your freshman or soph­omore year with no obligation. You'll find a curriculum that's exciting and flexible enough to fit your class schedule and academic needs. 

STilT 
If you're a veteran or Junior ROTC graduate, then you're a jump ahead. You're already eligible to enter advanced ROTC. 

BASIC STilT 
If you're about to finish your sophomore year, apply now for our six-week summer Basic Camp at Fort Knox. Ky. You'll earn $450 and the opportunity to enter advanced ROTC next fall. 
For details, contact: 
Major John J. Mac Neil Room 236 in the ROTC Building lor Call 6264 I 6265 I 7332. 
lilY IITC.n1 TIE •11 UH. 


1
------·----__._.-~------~~------·-----. 

1 0 the observer ThursdayI March 30, 19:ra 
Scientists clone frogin cancer research 



Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 259--9090
1 2 
I 
.·.· :::: 
I.

..... 
I 
1:10-3:10-5:15­7:20-9:30 
.... 
;~~
.... 



LONDON [AP] • Two influential they would "run out again and sick of being insulted. We get it conservative British newspapers leave us with 30 years of trouble," from the three-half-penny soap yesterday slammed American U.N. a reference to Britain's withdrawal opera at the U.N., we get it from Ambassador Andrew Young for his from Palestine after World War II international hustlers wanting to criticism of London's efforts to end and the Arab-Israeli conflict that work the old anti-imperialist the Rhodesia crisis and accused followed. routine. him of deliberately insulting Eng­''A bull in a china shop is a 
"We do not expect to get it from land. relatively inoffensive and harmless a member of the U.S. cabinet." 
One said Young's statements on creature compared with Andrew The papers were reacting toAfrica were primarily designed to Young on his self-righteous African remarks attributed to Young Tues­endear black voters to President crusade," the Daily Telegraph day that Britain sought to wash herCarter. snapped. 

hands of the Rhodesia problem andYoung is on an African tour ''The bull could well plead that turn the breakway colony over toseeking support for a plan to he was out of his element and the Prime Minister Ian Smith's whitereopen racial talks in Rhodesia to havoc unpremeditated. Mr. 
minority regime. 

included guerrillas based outside Young, by contrast, is convinced the country. that he has the mission to restore Young's remarks followed indi­
Young has apologized to Britain freedom, peace and plenty to cations the British government in the past for his remarks. He Africa after European colonializa­viewed favorably an ''internal stung the British on the Rhodesia tion." settlement" for eventual black issue last month when he was The Daily Mail noted in an majority rule between .Smith and quoted as questioning whether editorial: "The British are heartily moderate nationalist leaders. 
(]RIVER PARK (]TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
MINNEAPOUS [AP] • Hopping around Robert McKinnell's labora­tory is proof that cloning works: a frog. 
Small potatoes compared to the alleged cloning of a boy, described in a much-publicized book by David Rorvik to be published this week. But years from now, McKinnell's frug may be seen as part of a far more important cloning project: the control of cancer. 
"Biologists working with cloning are not trying to trick cells into doing bizarre and strange things," McKinnell, professor of genetics and cell biology and a cloning expert at the University of Minne­sota, said in an interview. 
In McKinnell's lab, cloning is used in basic research into what causes normal cells to become cancerous. In one experiment, the nucleus of a cancer cell is planted in a normal frog ovum deprived of its own nucleus. Instead of a ball of cancer cells, the egg becomes an embryo which looks much like a normal embryo, with a head,l a belly, tail, skin and nervous sys­tem. And it can swim, although it later dies. 
This progeny of a cancer nucleus in a cloning procedure shakes some long-held biological theories, McKinnell said. First, it shows 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

MAY I H4~ Yal~ ATTENTION, P«Pl£? /IERE stRI?YfCR. 7H~ 'OtLAY IN 71V<!N6 ~ BUT 7Hl3 
that the nucleus does not dett~r­mine everything, since it is clear that the nucleus itself is affected by the cytoplasm, the material around it. 
Second the progeny shows that cancer is not stable, "that in this cancer system, we can revert that malignant process back into some­thing that resembles the benign condition." 
McKinnell's research centers on differentiation, the mysterious pro­cess by which one cell divides to become a variety of special orgallls and cell types: skin, heart, bone.. The formation of cancer is a type of differentiation in which a cell goes awry. 
From the cloning experiment described above, researchers hop'e to learn what process changes th•e cancer nucleus to enable it to creat•~ a near-normal embryo. 
Learning that process and being able to duplicate it could revolu­tionize cancer treatment, which now mainly consists of killing cancerous cells. Instead, McKin·· nell speculates, it may be possiblt: to manipulate the environment o1f the cells-perhaps with drugs -so that when the cancer cell divides: again, its progeny will be normal. 
Using cells from a single frog embryo, lab technicians can clone hundreds of frogs, all of which are genetic replicas and grow to normal adulthood. These frogs are especi­ally useful as experimental controls in cancer research because scien­tists know in advance their exact genetic makeup, McKinnell said. 
ND concert band to present Spring Concert 
The Notre Dame Concert Band will present its annual Spring Concert this evening at 8:15p.m. in the ACC. There will be no admission charge. 
This concert will be the last in a series that has taken the Band to lllinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Mis­souri, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas. 
Student teaching forms due Mon., April 3 
Notre Dame seniors who are planning to do their student teach­ing during the first semester of the 1978-79 academic year must declare their intention by Monday. Appropriate student teacher fyrms must be signed by that date in the Saint Mary's Education Depart­ment office in order for the student teachers to be placed in area high schools. 
(] SCOTTSDALE 
Thursday, March 30, 1978 the Observer 11 

Kelly's charges await home opener 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 

Although Notre Dame baseball coach Tom Kelly and his players must have wondered at least once or twice during the long, snowy winter whether all thier hours of practice would go for naught, thier work will finally begin to pay dividends. 
The Irish, owners of a 3-5-1 record after spending spring break in Florida, will host Bethel College tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. in their home opener. St. Joseph's (IN) will provide the opposition in a Saturday twinbill on Jake Kline Field, before St. Mary's (MN) closes out the weekend homestand with a single contest on Sunday. Saturday's doubelheader starts at 
1:00 p.m., with . the St. Mary's clash on the docket for 3:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame was quick out of the gate in the Rollins Invitational Tournament in Winter Park, Fla, winning three of its first four contests. But the Irish bats fell silent, as Notre Dame could muster only 12 runs in its final five games, managing only one tie in that stretch.­
Kelly was generally satisfied with his club's progress in Florida. "In light of the fact that this was the first time we had been outside all spring, I was happy with our play. Our agressiveness was very pleasing to the coaching staff. It was an excellent week, both in terms of actual games and prac­tice." 
Highlighting the week was the play of keystone combo Rick Pull­ano and Tom Caruso, and the pitching of Joe Karpowicz. Short­stop Pullano paced Notre Dame with a .483 average, banging out fourteen hits in 29 at bats, and scoring 10 runs. Caruso, a junior as is Pullano, stung enemy pit­chers to the tune of a .357 mark. 
Karpowicz, a senior righ~-han­der didn't allow an earned run in 
Golic decisioned in NCAA tourney 
by Gregory Solman Associate Sports Editor 
Bob Golic returned to the NCAA wrestling finals March 16, to continue his personal quest for a National Title. Unfortunately for Golic, so did · Oklahoma State's Jimmy Jackson, who last year defeated Golic in the semi-finals, and this year repeated the task, ousting Golic from the tournament on points, 11-5. 
Jackson went on to win the heavyweight title by defeating John Sefter of Princeton.. 
"I enjoyed the nationals and I really thought that I might do better this year,'' commented Golic methodically, "but things don't always tum out the way you'd like them to." 
In all, Golic won three matches before his loss to Jackson. He then wrestled and won two consolation matches. The big story, however, remained the continuing saga of Golic and Jackson. 
"He's a very smart wrestler," commented Golic, who last year was pinned by Jackson in semi-fin­al action, "He leads you into believing that he's trying to b~ the aggressor, but he's really waiting for you to make a mistake and then he capital~es on them.'' 
Golic trained for weeks before 
the match with Middletown, Ohio's 
280 pound Jeff Epperson, who 
placed third in the 1976 Olympic 
Trials. Epperson was brought in, 
as he was last year, to wrestle Golic 
because of the lack of wrestlers on 
campus that could match Golic' s 
size and strength. 
Dave DeSabato and Rob Dreger, who's outstanding performances in regional competition brought them to competition in the finals, also• were eliminated early in the com­petition · held this year at the University of Maryland. 
over eight innings of work. Solidyfing his bid for a spot in the starting rotation, he permitted just six hits, and fanned six while walking only one. 
Freshman outfielder Mike Jamieson, who was making a serious challenge for a starting job, suffered a fractured bone in his left hand while sliding into second base. Jamieson, who throws right and bats from the left side, will wear a cast for three to four weeks. He was hitting .364 at the time of his injury. Here is a thumbnail sketch of the 
1978  edition  of  Fighting  Irish  
baseball:  
PITCHING- Perhaps  not  quite  

seventy percent of the game, especially in college ball, but still the most important phase of · the sport. The Irish will have a bona fide stopper in Karpowicz if the 6-1 senior can continue his pace. Kelly is counting on Joe Leahy and Don Wolfe, a pair of seniors, to bolster the staff, but neither was impressive in Florida. Another senior, Pete Zabroski,, is the top man coming out of the Notre Dame bullpen. Zabroski was plagued by wildness as a junior, but has shown improvement in that department thus far. Senior Mark Ladd, who was tagged for two home runs in Florida, may have caught Kelly's eye with an other­wise impressive trip. Freshmen Mike Deasey and Bob Bartlett show potential, but took their lumps down South, and will need time to mature. Wildness plagues almost the entire mound corps, with few exceptions. At this early point, the staff can be rated no 
better than fair. 
CATCHING--Academic All-Am­erica catcher Tim Pollock is gone, but sophomore Dan Voellinger led the club in homers in '77. Freshman Jim Montagano may be stronger defensively, but both should see plenty of action behind the plate and as the DH. The big question here is how well this duo can keep enemy baserunners in check. Offensive talents make this. department , a strong suit. 
INFIELD--Pullano and Caruso ' 
provide a very strong backbone; question marks are at the corners. Senior Giles Korzenecki began the spring trip as the regular third baseman, but slumped badly after a hot start. Junior Bob Cleary is a pesky hitter, but can be a liability on the field. At first base, big Dave Smith appears to have lock on the job, although a slow start at the plate could open the door for Greg Weston or Mark Kelley. 
OUTFIELD--Good overall speed, but no proven sticks. Senior Bill Starr is an excellent fielder with occasional surprising power, but hasn't shown that he can hit for a-verage. Dave DeFacci has shown the potential to become a consis­tent hitter, but as a senior, he will be graded on performance, not potential. Bob Bader, the third senior in Notre Dame's outfield, holds down the centerfield spot, but had a horrendous trip, hitting only .107. All three appear safe in 

their positions, at least until Jamie-son recovers. A good contact 1 hitter, Jamieson is well-schooled in *Observer the fundamentals. Overall, a lack of hitting and depth makes the 
, sports
outfield suspect. 
Irish win first tennis match 
Coach Tom Fallon's Notre Dame Mark Hoyer finished the Irish 
tennis team, thanks to a clean sweep, defeating Jeff Smart and 
sweep in the doubles competition, Tom Taylor, 6-1, 6-4. 
opened its 1978 season on a Hainline continued by knocking 
winning note Wednesday after-off Ballingall in the number one 
noon. The Irish whipped Ball singles match, 3-6, 6~1, 6-4. 
State, 7-2, at the Athletic and Hopwood, Horan and Koval aided 
Convocation Center fieldhouse. the Irish cause with solo victories. 
Notre Dame's Brian Hainline-Atwell and Smart were the only 
Carlton Harris combo easily dis-bright spots for the Cardinals, 
posed of Ball State's top doubles winning respective matches over 
team of Marty Atwell and Dave Harris and Tom Westphal. 
Ballingall, 6-4,6-3. Marty Horan The Irish continue action on 
and Bob Koval also won, beating .• Saturday as they hos1Minnesotaand 
BSU's Steve Rothstein and John Indiana State. lllinois pays a visit 
Wood, 7-6,7-6. Herb Hopwood and to Fallon's squad on Sunday. 


FOR SALE Pink Panther, Glad you're back. Missed 
your tail. Christmas Tree 
Alicia, Of course we still love you -just because the French postal service hates you don't get paranoid! · Letters are coming! 
---· 
Jean and Nan, Thanks. You two are real lifesavers. E-line and Grace await you. Be there. Aloha. 
Cry and you cry alone. Squeeze and the world squeezes with you, 
Mama's got a squeezebox daddy won't sleep saturday nite. 
Never underestimate the power of a squeeze beaux arts ball. 1 april 1978. saturday nite squeeze. 
Seniors, Send a graduation announce­ment to: Jimmy Carter, 1600 Pennsyl­vania Ave., Washington, D.C., 20500 
Furnished apt. All private, 3rooms up for married Grad. student. All utilities, near Memorial hosp. No rent for helping 2 people in wheelchairs. 232-9128. 


·.I 
,I ' 
~. ~ 
NOTICES 

Dissertations, manuscripts, etc...typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287 
4971 .. 

NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
Attention Logan Volunteers: The trip to Brookfield Zoo Is this Saturday from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m.!! Lunch and transpor­tation will be provided. We need volun­teers, so bring a friend! See you Saturday! Questions? Call Jeanne 284­4391 or Art 287-7509. 
FOR RENT 

5 and 6 bedroom furnished houses for rent, summer and fall. Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call232-3815 after 5:00. 
Furnished, entirely carpeted 4-bedroom house. $80 per person. Gas and electric not included. 438 Harrison, 1block south of Julio's on LWW. Call 288-7894. 
Fine houses In good neighborhoods (Portage and Angela area) Reasonable rents For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto 234-6688. 
E1JR~PE 
tl:'' l:.f"11"nliJ
J;.

ll\.d 11 12 ldJ'£ 
C.illloll foee 
(800) 325-4867 

Gu<H.Jillfl••d or <;f"f" yOuf tr,nt>l rtqf'n1 
R"""'"t10n· @ Un:Travel Charters •• 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Cross pen-pencil set before break. Sentimental value. Reward. Please call John Murphy 289-8643. 
Lost: 1Texas Instrument SR-11 calculator in or near LaFortune on the Wednesday before spring break. Reward offered. Call 233-7213. 
Found: Set of 2 keys found..b.efor~ l;>reak. Call Observer office to identify. ' ' 
Found: One good earring for non-pierced ear...between Arch. Bldg. and Sorin before break. Call1161, 
PLEASE HELP! One British wool tweed cap with snap front was left in 127 Nieuwlimd on Tuesday morning. Please call if you have any info. Has great sentimental value. Scott 7816. 
WANTED 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS­Seasonal. and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 
(301) 654-3nO, or send 2 complete resumes and 2pictures to: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue. Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
Will trade 2center section bleacher seats to Jackson Browne and $$ for 2 padded seats. Ken 8266. 
Wanted weekend householder for half­way house. Small salary plus room and meals. Overnight stay required. Excel­lent experience for persons interested in mental health field. For further informa­tion ca.ll 234-1049. 
Need tutors in basic English and basic Math. Available between 8:30-4:30 Mon­day thru Friday. Hourly pay. Call for interview appointment-Project EFFECT, IUSB, 237-4491. 
.$100 plus weekly mail in~ circulars! Materials supplied, Immediate income guaranteed! Rush stamped addressed envelope: Homeworker, 2909 4DE Pine­tree, Hernando, MS 38632. 
----------------~-
Summar Jobs • Try something different this summer. Leadership training at Quantico Va. Free transportation, and pay of over $700. For six waaks. Saa tha Marina Officer Salactlon Team In Lafor­tune March 29-31 9 a.m.-4 p.m.. 
Classic Ovation guitar with hard shall ovation case in absolute perfect condition Must play to fully appreciate. Call Gene 
1694. 
•Aria 5-string banjo. Excellent condition. Call John at 1694. 
PERSONALS 
Haircuts, trims, styles, cheap! SMC 4530 Betsy 
Fraa to a good home: 2 puppies [Collie and Boxer mix[ [hmm...) Call m­2520 attar 3 p.m. 
Typing Dona Reasonable Rates Call8086 
JJ, South Bend may not compare to Florida, and I might not be as aood a roomie as Rens, but Happy 21stf Love, JB 
Bunny, Happy 21st birthday! Hope the rest of your semester is filled with good parties and pina coladas! Love, D.O., Joyce, Jean and Marybeth 
·--­Mary Beth "Slink" Higgins: You've been hinting around long enough-here's your personal. Since Doe and Gil have gone by the boards, now you' II have to go snag a real perfect hard guy. Otherwise you'll have to pick up a cowbor at Squint's Zoo!! Happy belated 21st. Love, D.O., Jean, Joyce, Bunny 
Hi P 
Joyce Anne Johnson: 21! We can really hit the bars and spoil it by leaving to hitch up with aCoastiel Do "Sailors have more fun???" "And...what about their wives? Tune In next year" Happy birthday enjoy your last single bd with us -who knows how you and Plugneck will celebrate your next one! Love, Jean, D.O., Marybeth and Bunny. P.S. D-day -December 30 ­20 pounds eacy! 
Bunny, I know I'm evil and fat. l.,tt's exorcise together. The Devil woman 

---------------------------------------------------------~~---­
12 the ObS&rvir Thursday, March 30, 19i'8 
National champion Vaggo makes contributic,n to Irish 
ate decision to leav'i my home, my 
studies and my girl friend and 
come to Notre Dame," explained 
Vaggo. "I decided that I had to 
take a chance and at least try it for 
a semester. 
Vaggo's choice immediately 
solved any coaching problems 
DeCicco had feared running into. 
Although Vaggo was given no 
special treatment once the fencing 
started, he was immediately 
accepted as a member of the team. 
"I was made one of the team 
from the first day. I never felt for a 
second that I was resented," the 
fencing phenom commented. "If 
anyone was going to be bitter it 
would be Bill Kica who was the top 
epeeist at the time and he is truely 
one of my best friends now." 
"When Bjorne came here we were excited because he was supposed to be very good and we knew he could help the program," explained teammate Steve Sali­mondo. "After we all got to know him we realized he was a swinging kind of guy. He was accepted immediately because he was a mature gentleman." Salimondo e(·hoed the feelings of the rest of the fencing team that just chose Vaggo their epee captain for the 1979 season despite the fact that he has been a Domer for less than three months. 
While winning the National Championship was the highlight of a hectic stay at Notre Dame for Vaggo, life in this new atmosphere has not been just a bed of roses. 
"I had a problem with the language in the beginning but because I am in engineering I did not have to do much reading," he stated. "Coach DeCicco really helped me out with my studies and any problems I had. I was homesick at first, but time and a few phone calls have cured that." 
For Vaggo the short stay at Notre Dame has meant many changes on the social, academic and athletic 
level. Meeting new people in a strange environment is never easy, but this easy going comical charac­ter had remarkably little trouble in this area. Nicknamed "the Bear" (the Swedish translation for Bjorne) by his teammates and "the Swe­dish Soave" by his roommates, Vaggo has shown that he has what some people like to call that Notre Dame quality. Academia has been an area that this newcomer has had a difficult time adapting to as he explained, "Studies at universities in Europe are independent. You are given the information and the test dates and that is all; going to school here was like going back to high school for me. Yon have to go to class at a certain time every day and do certain work every night. I am beginning to get used to it but I don't really like it." An education in the United 

Swedish import Bjorne Vaggo aided the Irish national fencing title cause by winning the gold medal in epee. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
*Observer 
Sports 

..________lllllil___________________. 
States is what lured the talented worked for the team trophy." The 
Swede to Notre Dame. "I came newcomer continued, "The friend­
here not for fencing but for the life ship is the best thing about ND. 
experience and the education; the The first night I was here the 
fencing just gave me a chance," basketball team played and the 
Vaggo commented. "IfI stay here crowd was fantastic. I has never 
it will be because it will make me seen something like that and I 
a better person." really liked it. 
Certainly the question of remain­Vaggo says he will not rush a 
ing at Notre Dame weighs heavy on decision on whether he will remain 
Vaggo's mind. If he remains at at Notre Dame. A great deal 
Notre Dame he can virtually relin­depends on the reaction Swedish 
quish any hopes for participating in companies have toward an Amer 
the 1980 Olympics because the ican education. The Swedish 
great epeeist competition is only education is directed mainly in one 
found in Europe. Still, the compe­concentrated area where at Notre 
tition is the U.S. has added a new Dame a more liberal education is 
dimension to this athlete's career. emphasized. Notre Dame and 
''The practice and competition is Mike DeCicco can only hope that 
just not as good here, but I knew this Domer remains to continue to 
that before I came. However my make the tremendous contributions 
teammates are great people and it he has already presented in such a 
is a great team to be on as everyone short time. 

Ray O'Brien Sporta Editor 
While the Fighting Irish baskethall team got all the puhUclty In their bid for a National Championship, the fencing team quietly captured th•~lr 
second straight national title. In 
1977 it was the trio of epeeist Tim 
Glass, foilist Pat Gerard and sabre­
man Mike Sullivan that brought 
back the pot of gold to South Bend 
as Gerard and Sullivan captured 
championship honors in their indi­
vidual weapons. With these two 
defending champs returning, 
fencing coach Mike DeCicco had 
many reasons to be optimistic 
about the upcoming year. The only 
worry he had was replacing Glass, 
one of the top epeeists in the 
country, who was leaving due to 
graduation. 
Well any anxieties DeCicco might have faced could have been spared if he had known that a 22-year old Swede by the name of Bjorne Vaggo was going to be joining the Notre Dame commu­nity. And if DeCicco was anxious at times, it could not have com­pared to the ordeal Vaggo went through to get to Notre Dame and the United States. Nevertheless, all the trouble was worth it as Vaggo joined Sullivan as an NCAA national champion enabling Notre Dame to successfully defend her crown. But Vaggo's experiences at Notre Dame have been much more important than his heroics on the fencing strip. 
Vaggo first considered coming to the United States in 1975 as he corresponded by letter with two of his friends that had come from Sweden and were fencing for New York University. Lans and Hans Wieselgren were top epeeists in Sweden, which boasts the top epeeists in the world. Another top fencer, Johan Harmenberg, was a close friend of Vaggo's and was attending MIT on a fencing scho­larship and told Vaggo of the opportunities in the U.S. These reports influenced him to apply to schools in America. 
"I did not want to go to New York," explained Vaggo. "I had heard too many bad things about this city that was so large. I was really afraid to go there." 
Paul Mullaney 
Vaggo's application to MIT was late, and therefore rejected. "At this point I gave up thoughts of coming to the states and enrolled at Chalmes University of Technolo~:y which is like the MIT of Sweden. I had never even heard of Notre Dame." 
By mere coincidence this fencing engineer met Kaj Czarneki, a fencing coach that had worked for a short while at Notre Dame, at a World Cup competition in Paris. 
"Czarneki told me Notre Dame was a very good school with an excellent athletic program in a nice quiet area," noted Vaggo. "I became very interested again as iit was just the opposite of what New York was like and it was what I was looking for." 

This time Vaggo and his younger brother applied o NYU and ND with the stipulation that they would try the states for one year with du La.c as their first choice. 
"NYU offered us places in the enrollment but I did not here from Notre Dame for two months because it took that long for their return letter to arrive by ship,'' continued Vaggo. "And then th(: first letter I got asked what my decision was before I received th(: first letter that said ND was interested in having me apply for admission." 
If things were confusing now for the blond haired, blue eyed Swede the fiasco had just begun. Just before Bjorne and his younger brother were ready to try NYU, the school changed Presidents and fencing coaches and refused scho­larships to foreign athletes. By the time Vaggo did apply to Notre Dame it was too late for applica­tions, so he reenrolled for the spring semester and went to school in Geneva for the meantime. After numerous exchanges between Vaggo and ND, this junior was notified that everything was set for his enrollment three days before school was to start in South Bend. 
"I now had to make an immedi-

The Way It Was 
It was March 25, 1978. 

It was crowded. It was hot. It was tense. 
It was most important. 

It was time for Notre Dame to win over all, regardless of the odds. 
It was Dave Batton and Duck Williams closing out their collegiate careers while captaining the Irish to a shot at the national title. It was Jeff Carpenter and Randy Haefner achieving the "Final Four" goal after four long years of work. It was Rich Branning; the "glue" of Notre Dame, hoping to lead his team to a dream come true. 
It was time for the green socks to win their fifth game of the year. It was Tracy Jackson taking over in the clutch and showing what a top performer is made of. 
~~orton awarded WBC crown 

It was Kelly Tripucka, who had performed so admirably all along, learning quickly what tension is all about. 
MEXICO CITY [AP]· The World It was Bill Laimbeer and Bruce Flowers, hoping that two centers 
Boxing Council recognized Ken could wear down one opposition pivot. 
Norton as heavyweight champion It was Rick Gabbianelli, whose work was as rigorous as any other's, 
in its March rankings, while notice­sensing a share of the glory. 
ably missing from its list of top 10 It was time for "the juices" to "flow." 
contenders was Leon Spinks, who It was Bill Hanzlik, wishing that he was standing opposite Butch Lee. 
was stripped of the title by the It was Stan Wilcox, Orlando Woolridge and Gilbert Salinas looking 
WBC. forward to the opportunities that would await them in their remaining 
The WBC named Jimmy Young three years. 
the No. 1 contender for the crown It was time for Tim Healy, by his own admission more of a student 
in rankings released Wednesday.thari an athlete, to hit the books and cherish the memory that he never 
Spinks, who still retains the planned on havin~. 
World Boxing Association title and It was Digger Phelps, who led the lrish farther than they have ever 
is recognized as heavyweight king gone before, trying to put it al in perspective. 
in New York and New Jersey, had It was Dick Kuchen, Dan Nee and Scott Thompson wishing that they 
the WBC version of the title taken could have picked up where the football team and fencers left off. 
away when he said he would give a It was a game to forget, although it will long be remembered. 
rematch to Muhammad Ali instead It was Notre Dame with a comeback that will be hard to equal. But it 
of fighting Norton next. wasn't enough. 
The rankings conflict with state­
ments made by WBC Presidnet•t was a Duck Williams jumper that wasn't. 

Jose Sulaiman, who said that high. 
•' was an Irish team that left the Checkerdome with its heads held 
Norton has 90 days to fight Larry It w.a_ dose. It was no cigar, though. 
Holmes, who, according to Sulai­It was a. · over now. 
man, became the top challenger It was Dure 90. 
after defeating Earnie Shavers in It was Notre Dame 86. 
Las Vegas last week. Holmes was ranked No. 2. 
The rankings list Norton as fight Norton. champion since Nov. 5, 1977, when Former champion George Fore­he defeated Young. The WBC had man, who recently announced he ordered then-champion Ali to meet was returning to the ring following the winner of a Norton-Young bout a one-year retirement, was listed but allowed Ali to fight Spinks with No. 4, and Ali was ranked No. 3. a promise that the winner would 
ND sailors to open season 
By Mark T. Chock 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team will open their Spring season this weekend by hosting their annual Freshman Icebreaker Regatta. The ·regatta will be held on St. Joseph's J.ake with 12 other schools partici­tpating. This event has always produced excellent competition and this year will be no exception, for top ranked midwest and national teams will be racing. 
Recreational sailing is also a very integral part of the Club's activi­ties. Oub members range from novices (who have never set foot in a boat) to All Americans, with programs to fit each individual's needs. Saturday morning lessons are available for novices while other members may sail every afternoon and all weekend. Also for those with a more competitive and adventurous spirit the Team offers a most impressive racing schedule. 
• The Team travels to all points of lbe compass and competes against Jop nationally ranked schools. This r._~r the Team has been Boston, J;a)ifornia and New Orleans (for Mardi Gras.) 







