.-~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------­

Vol. XII, No. 126 
CLC discusses social space, overcrowding, loft regulations 

by Kathleen Connelly 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) met last night in the Keenan conference room to introduce new members and discuss their goals for next year. 
The four new vice presidentialI representatives to CLC are Mary
I 
Ryan from Badin, Curtis Wesseln
I from Grace, Ed Zier from Morris­sey and Chip Walton from Flanner. The Student Union will be repre­sented by Gary Luchini and the Hall Presidents Council selected Bill Vita, president of St. Ed's Hall as their representative. Representing the Judicial Coun­cil will be Bill Walsh, a junior from Pangborn. Sara Dougherty, vice chairman of the Faculty Senate reported that the five faculty senate representa­tives are presently being voted on and results are expected to be released on May 1. The faculty representatives from the original committee attended the meeting last night. Six rectors will be selected to serve on the committee 
"Not enough students opted to move off campus,'' Conyers said. "It is estimated that there are 180 extra males and 63 extra females signed up for on campus housing." An unexpectedly high rate of acceptance among the incoming freshman class was also cited as an additional factor in the anticipated housing crunch next year. 
The social space proposal calls for the reconversion of residence rooms in several halls into social space. The displacd persons would be relocated as incoming freshmen next year. Because of the antici­pated housing problems, some of the members were concerned that the building plans would be laid aside in favor of retaining the residential space. 
However, Vita commented that "if we sacrifice social space this year, we'll just have to fight for it again next year." 
The possibility of a lottery that would select some students to move off campus was t aised, but called impractical by some. 
"I'd like to have more time than a week to find a room if I were The survey is designed to give a cross section of each hall for use by the rectors in the guidance and the planning of activities. 
The last item mentioned was a proposal by Conyers that "the CLC investigate certain areas of budget under the Office of Student Affairs. A committee consisting of Roohan, Conyers and Zier was named to set up the plan. 
McKenna then commented on a few organizational points, one of which was the fact that the SBP will act as chairman of the CLC until Sept. 1 when the group will elect a chairman. 
McKenna also made the sugges­tion that attenclance of the meet~ ings be closely monitored. Mem­bers were asked to consider having the CLC review the status of members who miss more than two meetings. 
Dougherty said that attendance had been a problem in the past, but that the problem was with notifica­tion. She said that often members didn't know if there was to be a meeting any given week because 
[Continued on page 2] 

by Sept. 1 of next year. 
The actual deadline for the selection of rectors was April 15, but, according to Student Body President Andy McKenna, Bro. Just Paczesny, vice president for Student Affairs, decided to delay the election until next fall because of the number of rectors leaving after this semester. 
Student Body Vice President Mike Roohan began the discussion by asking membrs for their ideas about the purpose and goals of the CLC. 
Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of Keenan, began by stating that the major goal of the CLC this past year was the proposal on expansion of social space, which was passed at a recent Board of Trustees meeting. Despite the fact that the proposal was accepted, Conyers and others at the meeting believed that the plan could be in jeopardy b~cause of forecasted overcrowding next year. 
lotteried off campus. Most kids I know start looking around Christ­mas break," Luchini said. "If it is necessary to give up social space to 
· prevent such a lottery, I would agree to that,'' he added. Sr. Vivian Whitehead, rector of Breen-Phillips, suggested that the situation be resolved quickly "since roompicks are coming up. It is especially critical now,'' she commented. In further discussion of the role of the CLC, Prof. Albert LeMay urged the co!ltinued support and investigation of opportunities to better student and faculty relation­ships. In reference to the continua­tion of another CLC project, White­head suggested that the CLC give its support to the hall survey project which was initiated this spring. "What it needs is a formal letter from the Office of Student Affairs saying that it is available and :_~couraging its use,'' she stated. 
Pears advises caution 
Rash of thefts on campus 
Andy Segovia approximately $20 in cash were roaming the halls. "Young teen­
stolen from the room of a Morrissey agers often come on campus in 
Arthur Pears, director of Notre resident while he was out to dinner, order to afftliate with University Dame security, urged students to Pears reported. "The victim students and participate in Univer­lock their doors and take precau­suspects the bandit was someone sity events such as An Tostal," he tionary measures after a rash of who knew him," he said. stated. thefts on campus last weekend. A Cavanaugh resident was victim­Security does not dissaprove of 
"We usually receive a number of ized for approximately $40 worth of students bringing off-campus visit­theft reports right before the jewelry while he was away from his ors into the dorms, Pears comment­students go home," Pears com­room last Friday. The student ed. He noted, however, that mented, "but it is unusual for such failed to lock his room because he Security department does not ap­a significant amount to occur this was only leaving for a few minutes, prove of unsponsored visitors in the early." -Pears explained. residence halls. 
According to Pears, thefts occur­Last Saturday afternoon, almost "I cannot emphasize enough the red in Pangborn, Morrissey, Cav­$200 worth of valuables were stolen importance of student cooperation anaugh, and Fisher Halls. The from a Pangborn resident's room in trying to solve this problem," ROTC building was vandalized also as he was playing volleyball out­Pears said, concluding that ''The over the weekend. side, the Security director remar­majority of the thefts would have 
A Seiko quartz digital watch, ked. been prevented if the victim would valued at approximately $300 and Pears also reported that the have taken the time to lock his vendingmachine in the basement of room.". 

Fisher all was broken into during the weekend. In addition, the Naval display area and a classroom in the Southwest section of the ROTC building were vandalized. No accurate estimate of the cost of the damage has been obtained Pears said. 
"In order to remedy the situation we need the cooperation of the students," Pears noted. "Students can guard against theft by locking their doors every time they leave the room.'' 
Pears also pointed out that stolen property is rarely reclaimed unless the articles are marked or the victim can provide the serial num­ber of the stolen article. ''With this information we are able to utilize the computer resources of the National Crime Information Cen­ter." he said. 
The security director aJso empha­sized that a Hall Mark service is available at the Lost and Found office. The service provides engra­ving materials for student use. 
Pears noted that it is unfair to attribute the majority of the thefts to people outside the Notre Dame communtiy. In the past, students have sometimes been responsible for burglaries, he explained. 
Pears emphasized, however, that it is not unusual for strangers to be 
Blaze contained by joint efforts 
Asmall grass fire broke out in a field north of the Notre Dame tennis courts late yesterday after­noon, a spokesman for the Clay Township Fire Department report­ed. 
According to fireman Dave Cherrone, the fire covered an area of grass and dead trees approxi· . mately 200 by 300 yards. The Clay Township fire department res­ponded to the call with six men and three pieces of firefighting equip· t ment. The ND fire department sent one truck and two men to assist. 
Firemen arrived on the scene at 
5:25 p.m. and had contained the blaze within half an hour. The fire was finally extinguished shortly after 7 p.m. 
Cherrone said the cause of the fire is unkown. He noted, however, that the department responds to up to 1SO grass fire calls a year. the majority of which ;ae caused by ~eJeas smokers. 
Thursday, April 27, 1978
the observer 

~News Briefs____...,._. t='~~~::::::::=~~~~:::::::::::: National 
Hearst to return to prison 
SAN FRANCISCO • Patricia Hearst\ who lost her appeal for U.S. Supreme Court intervention in her bank robbery conviction, should return to prison while her attorneys try to have her seven-vear sentence reduced, U.S. Attorney G. William Hunter said· Tuesday. "She has an obligation to do her time ... and it will be better for her if she starts now," Hunter said in an interview. 
Wallace assigned guards 
MONTGOMERY, Ala.-Whether he goes to Washington as a U.S. senator or returns to private life in Alabama, Gov. George C. Wallace will still be guarded by state troopers after leaving the governor's office next January. The Alabama Legislature, in the closing hours of its regular session Monday night, passed a bill assigning at least two bodyguards to the partially paralyzed governor for as long as he thinks they are necessary. 
t=~---:=:::::============================::::=::= Local 

Kroger Co. loses suit 
INDIANAPOLIS • The Indiana Court of Appeals says Kroger Co. must pay a South Bend woman $2,700 for loss of her appetite for meat. The court ruled Tuesday on an appeal by the food market chain of a decision in favor of Phyllis R. Beck, who contended she was eating sirloin steak when she felt a sharp stab in the back of her throat. She found the inch-long tip of a large hypodermic needle used for injecting animals and said she hasn't enjoyed eating meat since. 

Weather 
Occasional cloudiness today with highs mid to upper 60s. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight low 40s. Highs tomorrow upper 60s to near 70. 
~On Campus Today_----..... 
10 am· 
Spm 
·2:30pm 
3 pm 
3:30pm 
4 pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
5 pm 
5 pm 
5 pm 
5 pm 5:30pm 6:30pm­
midnight 7 pm 8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 
9 pm­
lam 
9 pm • 
midnight spring book sale, friends of the library at notre dame, mem. lib. con., aJso april 28. 
an tostal trivia bowl, finals, men's division: pangborn vs. stanford; women's division: badin vs. lemans, main quad. 
can stacking contest, winning team of four will win as many cans of beer as they can stack, south quad. 
bed races, bring your own mattress, south quad. 
seminar, "the effect of the molecular structure on the radiolysis of liquid hydrocarbons", dr gabor foldiak, nd conference theatre-rad. lab. 
lecture, prof. donald kommers, civil rights center director on the west german abortion decision, rm. 101 law school. 
canoe racing, teams of two sign up at time of race, lake marian at smc. 
dunking booth, three chances for a quarter to dunk campus notables, in front of smc dining hall. . 
jail and pie-throwing, next to smc dining hall. 
kite flying, exhibition by kite king dinesh bahadur, field by smr dining hall, in ;:ar;~ela facility in case of rain. 
skateboarding contest, one course for beginners, another for experts, outside angela facility. 
musical chairs, attempt to break world record of 1,162 participants, at field behind smc dining hall. 
carnival, faculty, staff, and volunteer services night, advance-sale tickets availa:ble for nd-smc employees and families. 
meeting, international student organization to elect officers, basement of Iafortune. 
mr. campus contest, angela athletic facility [smc]. 
junior duo recital, maria ceraso-piano and karen peeler-percussion, little theatre. 
senior voice recital, michael ball and lisa easley, sponsored by nd dept. of music, 115 crowley hall. 
irish pub at senior bar, featuring egg-eating and goldfish-swallowing contests, also pass-the-orange and pass-the-lifesaver games, music by irish brigade. 
nazz, performance by kevin quigley, Iafortune basement. 
Over oral sex issue 



Judge to be unseated? 
NASHVILLE TN. [AP]· The Tennessee General Assembly pre­pared to vote yesterday on whether to unseat an appeals judge who wrote a letter to Hustler magazine on official stationery in which he made a graphic reference to oral sex. 
The Judicial Standards Commis­sion, the state watchdog of the court system, recommended Judge Charles Galbreath be ousted from the Court of Criminal Appeals for a series of actions that allegedly constituted misconduct, neglect of duty and moral unfitness. 
But a special Senate-House com­mittee already has voted to acquit him of seven specific charges, leaving only the 1976 Hustler letter. 
The committee voted to deplore the letter but not to remove Galbreath from the bench because he agreed not to let it happen again. 
Before his case came up yester-
Communication council 
meets 
There will be a meeting of the Council of Communication at 10:30 
p.m. tonight in Grace basement. This is a mandatory meeting. 
~ 


%The Observer 
Night Editor: Chris Slatt Asst. Night Editor: Margie Brassil, Sherry Mummert layout Staff: Kathy Connelly, Steve Odland Editorial layout: Greg Hedges Features layout: Kevin Paul­son Sports layout: Paul Mullaney Typists: Lisa DiValerio, Stacy Weaver, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Kathy McEntee Copy Reader: Ann Gales Ad layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Kevin Walsh 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TtJe Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and S.lnt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purdlased for S20 per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 4655,. second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 465U. . The Observer Is a member of the Associated Preu. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 


teach a 
day. Galbreath repeated a pledge to resign if the Legislature cleared his name and refused to unseat him. He has said he would enter private law practice and might run for the Legislature, in which he served eight years before joining the court. 
Galbreath was first elected to the bench in 1968 and re-elected in 1976. His current term expires in 1982. 
The Hustler letter was written on 
stationery  which  contained  the  
names  of  other  judges  on  the  
letterhead,  and  was  pictorially  

reproduced in the magazine. It contained a postscript referring in scatalogical terms to the legality of oral sex. Chief Justice Joe Henry of the state Supreme Court called it gutter language. 
Henry, during hearings by the legislative committee, called the letter "a product of a depraved and sick mind." Galbreath apologized at the time for the embarrassment caused the other judges whose names appeared on the letterhead. He added, "H I happen to like pornography, pornographic litera­ture, that's mv right." 
The 52-year-old Galbreath's letter was a response to a Hustler article on the law and sexual practices. It was the beginning of a friendship with Hustler owner Larry Flynt. 

CLC discusses issues 
[Continued from pagel] th~.v were not contacted. The CLC also discussed the recent controversy over lofts. John Simari, Housing Commissioner, presented an outline of objectives concerning lofts. These objectives were researched by Kathleen Kan­ury and John Lloyd, two professors of mechanical engineering and experts on industrial fires. According to the proposed guide­lines, acceptable lofts would cover a maximum of 50 percent of total ceiling area, and provide for a clearance of three feet between the ceiling and the loft. In addition, transoms in rooms with lofts would be permanently closed because such ventilation would feed a fire. The guidelines also state that each matress should border the loft for easy exit in case of an emergency. A final recommenda­tion is that each room with a loft be equipped with a smoke detector. In the discussion following, members commented on the fact that the University has not com­plied with some of its own regula­tions regarding fire safety. Flam­mable curtains, draperies and mat­resses as well as the absence of fire 

extinguishers  in  several  dorms  
were  criticized by  several  mem­ 
bers.  

After the meeting, Roohan cited the section of the Council by-laws which states that all CLC meetings are open to the Notre Dame community, and encouraged atten­dance.by students interested in the issues discussed by the Council. The next meeting will be an executive session in the Keenan conference room. Paczesny and Dean of Students James Roemer will be present. 

Shuttle to add extra stop 

The ND-SMC shuttle will operate 
on its usual Thursday and weekend 
schedule for An Tostal weekend, 
but will add one stop at the east 
gate of Stepan Center. Because of this additional stop, the bus will board only once per run at the Main Circle before proceeding to SMC. The stops will occur in the follow­ing order: Grotto (ND); Stepan (out east gate); Libarary circle); Main circle; Grotto (SMC). 



free university course 
Registration deadline -April 28 
Virtually any 

topic acceptable 
Sponsored by: Notre Dame Student Union 

Do you have a favorite hobbt or interest? 
Share your krnNiedge by teaching a Free Universi1y Course 1his Fall. 
<;all end regiS1er rON. 

!;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::~:::::::::=:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::=::!:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;. 

The carnival ferris wheel is an awesome sight at night. Beware: This is no 11 kiddy" ride! [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
.~~~~==~~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~:~:~:::~:~:::::~:~:::~:::~:::~:::::::~:::::~:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::::::~:~::~:::~::::::::::~:~:~:~:::~:~:::~:~~;;: 

Humane Society pressure prompts event cancellation 
~ 

by Tim SulUvan Staff Reporter 
"The greased pig contest, as it stands, has been cancelled," Paul 
B. Callahan, Saturday An Tostal Chairman stated yesterday, "be­cause of pressure from the St. Joe County Humane Society. They threatened to issue a press release condemning the An Tostal event if we went through with it." A new event has been created to replace the contest, he said. 
Callahan stated that yesterday he called Mrs. Mamie Brown, the wife of the farmer who is supplying the pig for the contest. Mr. Brown recieves the dining hall's unused food for the purpose of feeding his pigs. Mrs. Brown stated that if the pig was allowed to rest five minutes between each five-minute run, there would be ''no way it could be hurt." 
"In addition," Callahan said, ''we would only grease the hind legs, so the pig could sweat and 
tonite: 

kevin Quigley
9-11 pn1 
sponsored by your student union 
would not die of exertion. The rule is you can only catch it by its hind legs. According to Mrs. Brown, if we enforced these rules, there is no way the pig could have been caught.'' 
The pig, according to Callahan, would weigh about 100 pounds, at least half the weight of anyone chasing it. "It would have had a 
fair chance," Callahan  comment­ 
ed.  
''As  a  replacement  for  this  

event,'' Callahan stated, ''we are instituting the 'Greased Pork Chop Contest'. The same teams will compete. We will grease a pork chop in the mud pit at 1:30 on Saturday. We want to be as humane about this as we can." 
"We will also blindfold the contestants," he continued, "so the pork chop will have a fair chance. The teams of three will all have a five-minute time limit to catch the pork chop, and the shortest elapsed time will win dinner for six at the Boar's Head." 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--~ 
--. 
Thursday, April 27, 1978 
_the observer 
3 



Pentagon proposes cutback :of military base operations 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Penta­gon yesterday proposed stream­lining the military base structure by dosing, cutting back and com­bining operations at 107 installa­tions from coast to coast to save an extimated $337 million a year. 
The plan, already under attack from protesting congressmen, would result in a net reduction of 23,000 jobs -14,600 military and 8,600 civilian -in 30 states and the District of Columbia. 
Because the law requires a comp­licated series of studies, many of these actions would not take effect for months, and possibly years. 
Defense Secretary Harold Brown, who has said the military base structure is bigger than required by the size of the armed forces, said the savings could be applied to "higher priority needs, including increased combat effectiveness and readiness." 
Much of the thrust of the propos­ed cutbacks comes from a Pentagon drive to trim training costs and eliminate excess military hospitals. 
On the list for possible closings are Army training centers at Fort Dix, NJ.; Fort Jackson, SC., Cha­nut Air Force Base, IL.; and Goodfellow Air Force Base, TX. 
The Navy proposed consolidating Marine recruit training by dosing either the Parris Island, SC., or the San Diego recruit depots. It also will study whether to shut down 
Worried about upcoming exams? 
RGET ABOUT THEM for at least 6 hours!!! 


CARNt 
cofJ-nk)l) 6) 6'.)0 -lZ.:oo 
either the Navy boot training center 
at San Diego or at Great Lakes, IL. 

The Pentagon also earmarked some historic bases for either shutdown or reduction including Ft. Monroe, VA., and San Francis­co's Presidio. 
Among hospitals targeted for possible closure are Letterman in San Francisco and a naval medical center in New Orleans. The Philadelphia naval hospital would be substantially reduced. The hardest hit of the 30 states 'would be California, which would lose about 11,720 military and civilian positions. At the other end of the scale is Alabama which would lose only seven personnel, in an Air Force radar station. 
Along with major installations includes 40 obsolete air defense radar stations. 

Some states, like Indiana, would gain in the shuffle. With the possible dosing of Ft. Sheridan, IL., the Army Recruiting Command would nome to Ft. Benjamin Harr­ison, IN., as would the Army Military Personnel Center from Alexandria, VA. 
The Carter administration's first attempt at base reductions follows by about two years the Ford administration's move to realign 160 bases at an advertised saving of $248 million a year. 
The base ''hit list'' as some military officials refer to it, has been in preparation for more than 
An Iostal C8Jebration 1 
· six months. Announcements have been delayed repeatedly because senators and representatives bar­gained and argued with the De­fense Department in efforts to avert shutdowns in their states and districts. 
There were indications the Penta­gon delayed the announcement until after last week's close Senate vote on ratifying the second Pan­ama Canal Treaty. Sources said the administration wanted to avoid losing support from senators re­sentful of impending base cutbacks in their states. 
·Student Players schedule performance 
An extra performance of Neil Simon's comedy, Come Blow Yow Hom! has been scheduled for Friday night in the Nazz. The new schedule of performances is: 
Friday, April28, 7 and 10 p.m. Saturday, Apri]29, 8 p.m. only 
A spokesman for the Sudent Players said the extra show has been scheduled "because of the enthusiastic reception we got from last weekend's audiences." 
The Student Players' production is sponsored by the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission. 
------------~ -­

~----------------------------------------------------------------~----~ 
r 
~ 
i 
~I 
I 
r 
Thursday1 April 271 1978
the observer
4 



ND Studentspicket abortion clinic 
by Bill SchoU 
The opening of Women's Pavil­lion, an abortion clinic in South Bend, has been the source of much controversy in the last two weeks between anti• and pro-abortion groups in the local area. 
The Women's Pavillion, located at 425 N. St. Louis Street, across from the emergency room of St. Joseph Hospital, opened April 15 and has been picketed continuously since April 22. 
women coming out who had abor­tions and I remember that they were very noticeably shaken.''' 
Anna Smelser, a member of the St. Joseph County Right to Life­Organization, said that the picket­ing will continue as long as the clinic remains open. 
"We're here to give the women a last minute notice that they don't have to do it,'' Smelser said. 
Marcia Topping, administrator of Women's Pavillion, says she is not upset with the picketers and 
Last Saturday four Notre Dame adds that she does not think they 
' .•. women are being exploited by counselors whose business it is to make money from abortions.' 
students took part in the picketing which is being sponsored by the St. Joseph County Right to Life Organ­ization. The students taking part in the protests were freshmen Mary Anne Hughes and Nick Matich, sophomore Christine Leblanc, and junior John Ryan. 
According to Ryan, an undergra­duated coordinator for the ND­SMC Right to Life Organization, the protest is placing pressure on the clinic and is helping the pro-life movement gain support in the neighborhood surrounding the cli­me. 
Ryan said he hopes the picketing will help women realize that people do care, and that there are alterna­tives to abortion. "It's discourag­ing in a way," Ryan said, referring to the picketing. "I saw two have had any bad effects on the clinic. "I do not see them as a problem," Topping said. "Picket­ing is not unique to abortion. On the other side of town they are picketing about schools.'' 
''Anyone has a right to voice an opinion, and so far they've been very peaceful," Topping conti­nued. ''As long as they do not do anything illegal I don't foresee any attempts by the Women's Pavillion to get them to stop. However, I do think it is unfortunate when a segment of the community tries to control medical ethics for the rest of the community." 
According to Topping, the clinic, which is a commercial enterprise, also offers counseling to any woman facing the problem of pregnancy. Topping said the clinic 
_IWIATH MAJORS 
We're looking for college grads to fill unique 
positions as Navy Officers. Leadership ability 
needed to supervise highly skilled workers. 
312-657-2234 COLLECT 
Year -End Special 
Saturday 

Prizes! 
9-1 opm 2stt J 
·a. 
Scottsdale Mall Telephone 291-4583 
) 
does pregnancy testing and offers birth control counseling to both 
pregnant  and  non-pregnant  
women.  
Rick  LaSalvia, a second  year  

Notre Dame law student and chairman of the ND-SMC Right to Life Organization, does not feel the counseling offered by Women's Pavillion is adequate. 
"I am very skeptical of their claim to neutral counseling because of their interests in making a profit through abortions," LaSalvia said. "I think women are being exploited by counselors whose business it is to make money from abortions." 
Smelser agrees. "I can't see them trying to talk somebody out of an abortion when they are trying to make money.'' 
Currently, both St. Joseph Hos­pital and a local organization called Northeast Neighbors have filed for 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th ~Telephone 288-8488 
afunny
lOve storv. 
~~House 




Calls'' 
AUNIVERSAl PICTURE ~ TECHNICOlOR® ., 
01171 UNIVERSAl CITY STOOtOS. M«: ALL RIGHTS AESEAVEO 
Mon. thru Fri. 
7 & 9:15 Sat. & Sun. 1:00-3:00-5:00-7:00-9:15 
an injunction in a local court to have the clinic closed permanently. Both suits hold that the clinic is a nuisance for both the hospital and the neighborhood. 
A countersuit has been filed by the Women's Pavillion charging that the hospital suit is a nuisance and a form of harassment. Ed Zych, a Notre Dame law school graduate, is representing the North­east Neighbors. 
Walk and Talk rally 
There wiJI be a Walk and Talk rally this Sunday sponsored by the Coalition of Concerned Citizens for Life, which includes several cam­pus organizations such as the ND-SMC Right to Life, ND Knights of Columbus, and CILA. 
Tbe rally will include a march from Howard Park to the abortjon clinic and then back to Howard Park. Upon returning to Howard Park there will be a number of speakers discussing the abortion issue. 

The Notre Dame portion of the march will leave the main circle at 
1:45 p.m. and join the main march at Notre Dame Ave. and Cedar St. It will proceed to Howard Park for the speaker's portion of the pro­gram which should last about half an hour, according to Ryan. 
LaSalvia stated that the march is being held to show the commu­nity's support for the St. Joseph Hospital and the Northeast Neigh­bors. 
"We ask all q1embers of the ND-SMC community to join us in showing our support of those fighting the clinic. We hope the march symbolizes our belief in the dignity of human life and our duty to protect it,'' LaSalvia concluded. 

Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 259-9090 
..~ 
The story of the world·s first pregnant man... it's inconceivably funny. 
~= AVCO EMBASSY PICTURES 

© 11t78 AVCO EMBASS't' PICTURES CORP 
TIMES 2 :00-4 :00-6 :00-8 :00-10 :00 
'THE 
OTHER SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN'


PART2 
~G:~ 
A t.:~JVERSAL  C1i78 UNIVERSAL  
PICTCRE  COLOR~  CITY STUDIOS. INC  
Sat & Sun  

1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
Call theatre for Fri times 

; 
Ihu~y, April27, 1978 
tht observer _ ·& 
Mountaineering#2. 

·The Buscli label is where it -~ all begins. Note the snowy, 
~..... craggypeaks .....-..._... affixed thereto. 
They are the 
ou morm 
taineer. And this is an ad. The subject of which is selecting the 
.proper gear for mountaineering.(It all fits to­gether so nicely,doesn't it?)
First and foremost, you'll need to pop the monntain top. For this task, faithful moun­taineers use a church . key Secular moun­taineers use a bottle opener. Don't be con­fused by these antics with semantics. Just reinember, the opener is your primary tool. Be true to it and it will be true to you
Second, choose a glass. Here theoptions become immense. German steins, hand­
~~blown pilseners,old jelly jars,thatcute little 
. Boffo mug you've had since third grade. · 
·.~·-·:Comfort is crucial. Ifyou : mountaineer in  
.........~,--~~~:l...._  public, pick a paddedbar stool,  
preferably . one that  
spins (to facili­ 
tate admir­ 
ing the scenery).Athome, a com­ 
fortable chair or sofawill  
do. Rule ofthumb: ifit  
feels good, andthepolicedon't seemto mind, do it.  
Then turn on the  
tube or spin a tune or crack a goodbookThe choice is strictlybetween you and the dominant hemisphereofyourbrairL Ofcourse, some mountaineers  
say the smooth, re­freshing taste ofBusch is entertainmentenough.1\:ndthank .  
do, because  
. ··it's an excellent  
·  conclusion.  
Be adventurous.  
Experiment. Most monntaineers have a  
personal preference. You'll develop one too. Food is next. Propermonntaineering, not to mention proper nutri­tion, requires a smorgas­bord selection of snacks.  
Some mountaineers  
have suffered from a  
potato chip deficiency, a pretzel imbalance or other serious dietary de­fects. Plan ahead  

Anheuser-Busch. Inc. St. Louis. Mo. 
----~-------------~--------------------------------------------~----------------------------------............ 
Thursday, April 27, 1978'
the observer 



Zodiac killer writes,~uggests movie 
SAN FRANCISCO [AP] • The . cryptic killer Zodiac has broken a four-year silence with a boastful letter suggesting a movie about himself, and heckling the detective who has dodgedly hunted him for nine years. 
"The is Zodiac speaking. I am back with you,'' said the hand­printed letter received Tuesday by the San Francisco Chronicle. Police said it came from the man they blame for at least six random killings and two woundings in the San Francisco Bay area in the late 1960s. He has claimed 37 murders, but police have said they do not believe that figure. 
The new letter, which neither claimed nor threatened any new killings, so rattled homicide inspec­tor Dave Toschi that he grabbed a cigarette and took a few puffs for th first time in three years. 
"I could feel the excitement in my body as soon as I saw it," Toschi said at a news conference Tuesday, his voice trembling with excitement. He had no doubt the letter was genuine. 
Toschi, who has pursued every possible shred of evidence about Zodiac since 1969, said, "I have always felt that he was alive and out there somewhere. I still don't know where he is, but at least now I know that all our work all these years definitely has not been in vain." 
Toschi, part of the city's homi-· cide squad, has stayed on the case~ alone since a task force investigat­ing Zodiac disbanded two years ago. He estimates he has talked to about 5,000 people in the investiga­tion. 
Zodiac is known to have killed at least six persons and wounded two others between 1966 and 1969, mostly in random shooting attacks on lone couples in the region. 
The letter was postmarked Mon­day in San Francisco and printed with Zodiac's customary blue felt­tipped. It was addressed, ''_Dear Editor." It was signed off, "Yours Truly." Underneath was Zodiac's famous logo -a circle with a cross through it. At the bottom was a notation "SEPD-0" -Zodiac's usual reminder to the San Fran­cisco Police Department, apparent­ly intended as a score, that he's still loose. 
The letter, which contained· grammatical errors as has been the case in other communications, said, "Tell Chronicle columnist herb caen I am here. I have always· been here. That city pig toschi is good but I am smarter and better he will get tired and leave me alone. f am waiting for a good movie about me. who will play me. I am now in control of all things." 

Zodiac, some of whose past messages have been in code, or in ghoulish prose, named himself. The signs of the Zodiac, contained in a segmented circle, are the basis for astrology, a type of fortune telling. 
In his last letter in 1974, Zodiac claimed 37 victims, and nothing ' has been heard from him since then; 
Lance charged with securities fraud 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Two fed­
. eral agencieslcharged former Bud­get Director Bert Lance yesterday with securities fraud for failing to disclose his checking account over-· drafts and insider loans when he was a Georgia banker. 
The civil complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Atlanta by the Securities and Exchange Commis­sion and the Comptroller of the Currency also names the two banks Lance once headed, the National Bank of Georgia and the First National Bank of Calhoun, GA. 
The complaint alleges that Lance and the banks violated securities laws before he was appointed as President Carter's budget director in 1973 by failing to disclose loans to Lance's relatives and Lance's checking account overdrafts. 
Lance resigned from the Cabin­et-level job last qctober because of the controversy over his banking practices. 
Lance and the two banks signed a consent order yesterday agreeing to the injunction and agreeing with the SEC and the comptroller not to violate securities laws but without admitting or denying the allega­tions. 
The complaint does not prohibit , Lance from future banking activi­ties. However, the consent agree­



Continental's Chickenfeed Fares are the solution to the dis­count fares confusion. Pure and simple. 
Chickenfeed Fares are simple. There are no lower fares anywhere 
we fly. Save 40% on weekdays, 30% on weekend'i to all our mainland cities. (Between selected cities you'll save 50% or more.) 
They're this pure. There are no restrictions of any kind. No buying your ticket a month in advance. No minimum stays. No n1aximum stays. Fly one way or round trip. And get a full refund if you cancel. 
Call your Campus Rep, Travel Agent or Continental Airlines. Ask for the Chickenfeed Fare. Then make tracks for somewhere nice. 
SampleOne Way Fares Regular Coach dtickenfeed Percentage Chicago to: fore Fore Savings 
Colorado Springs $102 $61 40% 
Denver 102 61 40% 
Kansas City 60 30 50% Los Angeles 165 99 40% 
Chickenfeed Fares effective May 15. Weekdays (Monday-Thursday): weekends (Friday-Sunday). 
Chicago/Los Angeles S99 fare effective at this time on all nonstop rtights. 
The only limitation is the number of seats....,--~-­available. So don't wait. 

We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRUNES 8 
The Ptoud 811d With the Golden Tail 
ment requires Lance to file reports when he takes out loans. It also prevents him from overdrawing any checking account except on terms available to other customers at the same bank. 
Women: beware of rape! 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 

Warmer weather may mean a higher risk of rape, warned Saint Mary's Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice. "We just want to alert students to this risk and remind them to think about their own safety. We can't forget about what happened last fall," she said. 
''The biggest myth that we have to break down is that it could ..never happen to me. An institution can only do so much to protect people. After that it is up to the indivi­dual," Barbara VanEck, director of SMC's rape prevention program expalined. 
Agreeing with VanEck, Rice also warned that hitchhiking, walking in secluded places and walking at night are all dangerous. Although a Saint Mary's security is now stationed at the college's front gate every night, students must still be careful, she pointed out. 
"Rape does not always happen in a dark alley. It can happen in broad daylight," Van Eck said, ''The rapist is often someone you know or just meet in a bar." 
Because of the danger of attack, VanEck has designed a 40-minute workshop in rape prevention that she is willing to present to any interested women's dorm at SMC or ND. The workshop is designed to help people take more control of their own lives during a rape situation. According to VanEck there are techniques one can learn to get out of such a situation safely. 
In addition, participants in the rape workshop encouraged to dis­cuss their ideas and attitudes about rape to discover which are valid and which are myths. 
Anyone interested in having the rape prevention program presented in their dorm or section should contact VanEck or Rice. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

···-.'."'.~.:-~··~--~
;.·
V·· :...:·: ... ":.1 ·;..,_... . 
·~-·., 
(·'~;~~~~
',~~~ 

insly·prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 

25 -8.5 x 11 only $2.65 203 N. Mam ­Downtown So Bend 289-697 

nitiative 
On Tuesday night, four students pre­
\ sented Student Body President AndyMcKenna and Student Body Vice Presr­dent Mike Roohan with Initiative 202. This initiative requested that ten issues be addressed bY. the Board of Commissioners at Thursday s meeting. Under Article' VA section II of the new constitution '' petition bearing the valid signatures of 200 members of the undergraduate student body shall cause the Board of Commis­sioners to consider a specific resolution within one week of the presentation of the petition." The presentation of Initiative 202 was a positive, although formal, indication of student concern. rt should be applauded as such. Initiative 202 also brought to light one flaw of the new constitution. This initiative clause can easily be misunderstood as a means to demand recognition of an issue. In this view it connotes a previous lack of response byStudent Government; but it can also be taken as the only way to communicate ideas to the Board of Commissioners. What is needed is a clarification and a possible elaboration. 





The initiative is not the only way a student can draw the board's attention to a particular issue. An alternate, less formal means of suggesting discussion .topicsshould be formulated and published. 
Initiative 202 should be ~plaudedbecause it showed the concern of students and their knowledge of the constitution. However, seven of the ten issues listed on Initiative 202 were already on the agendafor the Board of Commissioners meeting.Bearing in mind the open-door policy of the present administration, the petrtion seems unnecessary. Simply faiRing to Student Government should be enough to place the three other issues on the agenda. 
The effort involved in obtaining 200 signatures should be necessary only after Student Government has refused to face an issue. Students should be aware of the Initiative clause in case the need arises, but a less formal means of communication is available and should be used. The Observer calls for the formulation of by-laws which would enable students to communicate directly with the Board of Commissioners without invoking the force of an initiative. 
Track might overlook the article, thinking it is a report of the tiddly-wi.nk championship. Undoubtedly, they are happy enough being unnoticed
Coverage 
athletes who were at Notre Dame when some other guys won theDear Editor, national Championship in football. 
Congratulations on your fine cove­Mil.'! McMullen
rage of the Kansas University Relays! Don't consider the fact EDITOR'S NOTE: At the requestthat this meet is one of the most of Track Coach Joe Plane, the 
prestigious track events of the results of last Saturday's relay season as well as the fact that Notre were withheld until today in order dame's two-mile relay team was to run a more comprehensivehighly rated going into the meet. summary. Apparently, "Schafer's Recruits" Sports Information track repre­
hold more promise for winning the sentative Frank LaGrotta was ab· next four NCAA hockey champion­sent this weekend due to a death in ships than OUR present two-mile the famUy. See story on page 16. relay team (incidentally, track 
buffs, the ND two-mile relay team will most likely gain a Top 10 world 
Campus. 
rating status as a result of their conquest of New Mexico). However, rest assured that you Ducks did your duty in alotting these fine 
Deu Editor:athletes and their team the appro­The ND ducks have long beenpriate coverage complete with pic­favorites of the students and,tures, future meet information, despite the bad winter, have man·etc., they so deserve. I only hope aged to survive into this breedingthat the four runners on this relay season.
team, Jay Miranda, Chuck Aragon, Unfortunately, some studentsBill Allmendinger and Peter Bur­feel they have the right to destroyger are not far-sighted. They the duck eggs which are now waiting to be hatched; recently 25 were broken in an egg fight on campus. 



It has never been considered very courageous to kill animals for the sake of killing, nor to casually throw their incubating eggs at people for a laugh. 
This winter's bad weather killed many ducks; most of the newly hatched will be eaten by snapping 
.,.,~The Observer 
~n independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief . Steve Odland Managing Editor' John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor , Rosemary Mi lis Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor'r Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Thursday1 April 271 1978 
tlli'i.ies in St. Mary's Lake. There is no reason why the rest of them should be nearly eliminated be­cause of an immature, uncaring manner by some students . ..­
Brother Cbet Ziemba, CSC 
Fatima Retreat Honse 

Senior Fellow Selection 
Dear Editor, As I picked up Tuesday's paper and read the headline proclaiming 
that Richard Lugar had been selected as Senior Fellow, I first thought the Observer was present­ing a special April 25 edition of the Absurder. But, as I read on, I learned that as incredible a~ it may seem, Richard Nixon's "favorite mayor" had been chosen as the person best embodying the spirit of the class of '78. I was frankly embarrassed that even the nomin­ation of a philistine like Lugar, a staunch conservative who sports a voting record that Barry Goldwater would envy, was put forth in the first place. Now all I want to know is, why even have a Senior Fellow? TomByme 
Corporate Responsibility at Notre Dame 
helen gallag_h~r
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiAiitiiliieiiasiitiiisiiiniiceiiii1~9~7--4iioiiuiir~Biiioiiar~d of 
The following resolution was drafted at the March 12, 1978 Hunger Coalition Workshop on South Africa, Nestle, and Invest­ment Responsibility. The Hunger Coaltion supports the request for the appointment of a standing University Committee on Corporate Responsibility, and has sent the resolution to Father Hesburgh, and the Board of Trustees, and the University Investments Officer. 
lt is our concern that the student body, faculty, and staff review the resolution. STATEMENT ON CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY AT 
NOTRE DAME 

As the University of Notre Dame increases its endowment, it is an apporopriate moment for all of us within the University community · administators, faculty, students, staff, alumni and alumnae · to put by corporations and banks in which those funds are invested. For, in the words of our President, "(Notre Dame is) a place ··· in which Catholics and others, on the high· est level of intellectual inquiry • seek out the relevance of the Christian message to all the prob­
lems and opportunities  that face  
·modern  man  and  his  complex  
world."  

The Notre Dame community has minifested its historic concern for social justice in a variety of ways. For example, we have supported the United Farm Workers both by financial contributions to the work· ers and by boycotting products sold by agribusiness firms which have refused to bargain in good faith with these workers. Through this kind of activity we have affirmed our solidarity with American work· ers at the lowest end of the economic order. 
Our concerns have not been limited to protesting discrete in­stances of domestic injustice or labor grievances. It has focused on structural global injustice as well. 
Trustees has encouraged a policy of monitoring the University's in­vestments and the voting of shares held by the University not simply to maximize the return on our invest­ments, but also to encourage corporate responsibility in matters of social justice. Our investment officer, for example, has often voted the shares of Notre Dame in favor of stackholder resolutions sponsored by the Interfaith Center of Corporate Responsibility. 
We commend the Board of 

Trustees and the Administration for the support it has given to a policy that enables Notre Dam_e_to join many other great universtttes and religious communities in chat­lenging unjust and immoral corp· orate behavior wherever it mani­fests itself and in seeking to bring to the light of day other unjust and immoral practices which some kept all the elements of the U ntverstty community . administrators, _facul­ty, students, staff, alum~u and alumnae . and should mclude 
persons from disciplines of study or areas of expentse · necessary both to educate the entire commun­ity concerning the demands . of justice in this area, and to provtde as'sistance to the Investment Offic· er in carrying out the commitment of the University to these goals. If me~bers of the .U.niversity c~m­mumty are to parttctpate meamng­fully in this project, they will clearly have to know the names of the firms in the Notre Dame portfolio. Accordingly, "Ye ask the Investment Officer to brmg to the Board of Trustees a request that the portfolio be disclosed at le~st to this extent, and that proxy votmg of the University in the futrue be a matter of public record. . 
In committing ourselves to thts 
corporate managers would prefer ·task, and in petitioning the Admin­
kept hidden from their sharehold­ers. 
Because some of those practices are so profoundly contrary to the teachings of the Gospel and to the tradition which we on this campus represent, we commit ourselves as a community of scholars to further the activity of the University to use our finds in a way that is socially responsible. For example, we will conduct research, hold hearings, and prepare position papers ana­lyzing the economic impact of corporate policy on energy and the environment on racism and sexism in employm~nt, on unfair exploita­tion of the resources of poor nations, and the systematic support of the vicious apartheid regimes of Southern Africa resulting from American investments in that area. To promote these goals, we call upon the President of the Universi­ty to appoint a standing University 1Committee on Corporate Responsi­1bility. The members of this committee should be drawn from 
istrattion for the creation of a new University Committee on Corporate Responsibility, we make our own the words of the Roman Catholic Bishops ga!hered at the Synod. of 1971 tn thetr statement on Justtce 
in the ~orld: . . Aetton on behalf of JUStice and participation in the transforma­tion of the world fully appear to us as a constitutive dimension of the preaching of the GospeL. .. ~bile t~e Church _is ~ound to gtve wttness to JUSttce, she recognizes that anyone who ven­tures to speak to people about justice must first be just in their eyes. Hence we must undertake 
an examination of the ~odes of acting and of the possessions and life style found within the Church herself.. .. (t)he Church is oblig­ed to live and administer its own goods in such a way that the Gospel is proclaimed to the poor. If instead the Church appears to be a~ong the ~ch and ~~e~ of thts world, tts credtbihty 1s 
. diminished. 

Lou Reed's Street Hassle 
APortrait of the Artist in Despair
• domsalemi. 
"Animal" mouths the opening lines to the
yourself, ''What is this weepy, sentimental inclinations-betray hlm at every tum. It is
Lou Reed Street H••llle song Reed responds sarcastically, finally
bullshit? And who is this guy and who these tendencies that allow him to trash his 
n cares about him and his problems any­own artistic achievements one moment and getting fed up with the singer and calling 'I j way?" then cry for us to "wait" the next. He's him a "faggot junkie." Reed is burying his 
Watch out! The world's behind you legend, putting his past behind him once
l, Well, you're right. Nobody cares and like the poor sucker who' fells himself he'll 
·l There's always someone around you 
l that's what Street Hassle is all about--not never fall in love again but goes head over and for all, and asking us to start again
Who will call with him. He is no more the "animal" 
! I caring: not caring whether you break heels in love at the first opportunity. In the
'I's nothin' at all' 
somebody's heart, not caring whether you album's most magnificent section, the than the man he was ten years ago. Its Lou Reed 1968 time to grow up, he's telling us, leave your 
treat somebody like shit and their not trilqgy that'-makes up "Street Hassle," 
dreams behind you, because in the end
understanding why they're expected to Reed attempts to depict a world of sterility 
~: l 
Leave me, leave me, leave me 

smile and like it, and most of all, not caring and meaninglessness, a place where sex they're really "nothing at all." 
Leave me, leave me alone Yet in the back of the composer's mind
that some people give all they have for ~d death a~ just "hassles" and love and
Lou Reed 1978 there is the fear that he hasn't connected, that he hasn't been able to make himself understood, or worse yet, that nobody has I remember when I was back in high even bothered to pay attention. So in the school I fell in love with this girl named 
album's final number Lou asks us to 
Lorraine. She was pretty with deep-set "Wait." No, that's not quite right. Over a brown eyes, sensuous lips, long brown fragile little riff he begs us curly hair, and shy, graceful mannerisms. 
Wait 

I was new at school and didn't have many I know I shouldn't 
friends, so maybe it was my loneliness that
(' 
But please wait 
first drew me to her. But there was no
l 
I know the time 
denying her beauty and charm. She was Is getting late 
( 
new to school, too, and so frightened of And here I'm 
everybody and everything around her that Watching you hesitat~ she had her sister walk her to class. One But still I'd reallygirl I could have handled, but two was too Wish that you'd wait much, so I stood around while she made Although the passion might abate friends, and when I finally tried to talk to And find you in another state her I made such a fool of myself that I could 

Oh baby how I'd wish never again look at her without wincing in That you'd wait embarrassment. 
And all the while the female chorus in the 
Ah, but she was so pretty that I just had to background is mocking these sentiments,tell her the way I felt about her. If I crying: "Disgrace/Such a waste/Of such acouldn't have her I didn't want anybody pretty face." Reed believes in himself but 
else So I wrote her two letters its been so long since he's been straightconfessing my undying devotion and with us that he has trouble expressingpledging my heart to her forever. I waited honest emotion without being cynical. Yetfor her to write back and of course when in the end we know that he believes in love, she didn't I called her on the phone, believes in the power of the word, believeshanging up in a panic when I heard her in the power of rock and roll, despite all his voice on the other end. 
attempts to convince us of the contrary.
And it wasn't just infatuation or anything "Wait for me," he is saying, "Not so muchlike that. I really believed this girl could because I need you but because there will save me. I say in her all my perfections come a time when you 'II need me, and that painfully mirrored and I thought that by could be anytime. So wait."
possessing her I.fOUld somehow make Yeah, but nobody's listening, Lou. Andmyself whole. It was a crazy ridiculous nobody is going to wait around for you.
notion but I thought it was love and that People stopped listening a long time agomade all the difference. 
and its because they don't care. NobodyI lost out with Lorraine and as a result of cares enough to listen anymore. In face
1 honesty are nowhere to be found. Over aher rejection I nearly went insane. When somebody or something. Lou Reed gave all nobody cares about much of anything, at
he had to rock and roll, and no one paid any ""sparse musical backdrop that consists of a
you offer someone your heart and soul and 
I 
least as far as I can see. They care about ( are told that it's just "craziness" it does attention until he became a clown, a Rock simple, haunting melodic fragment, played themselves. People want to look good and
I something to you inside. It leaves you and Roll Animal, a caricature of himself. at times by only a single guitar, Reed 
t 
feeling small and ugly. It makes you stop Now he's tired of playing the fool, tired of sketches a hesitant picture of detached, •;;~1 good and if you ask them about 
r emotionless, individuals who have nothing a1iythirrg real they shrug and turn their 
( and think that maybe life isn't worth living the sell-out, and in what seems like one •eads or else they just laugh at you its like
and that you should just stop trying. final desperate effort, he's laying both to say 3nd nowhere to go; but in the final section he tears the picture into little pieces you said Lou there just doesn't seem to be
Maybe I shouldn't have pushed, maybe I heart and soul on the line. anything at all life
happening just no
f should have just tried to be friends and "It's been a long time since I've spoken to and tells us: nowhere you know and I bet nobody eventhen go from there like she wanted. you," Lou begins, "wasn't the right Believe me its just a lie cares enough to read this whole thing all theMaybe. It just seems that when you try to time." Now is the right time, but Reed Its a lie she tells to her friends way through .. .! know she won't.
hold on to things too tightly they always isn't talking to us. He knows we're not For the real songt slip through your fingers. And I wish I had listening. We bought the jester on Sally The real song she won't even admit to ·~ those two weeks back. I wish I could do it Can't Dance, not the poet of BerUn, and herself 
all Qver again. But wishing doesn't make it's tearing him up. No one likes to be Its deep in her heart 
it so. And maybe it wasn't love after all but thought of as a fool, and when in the course A song lots of people know then look at me writing about her now over of the song Reed quotes Bobby Fuller and its a painful song ... 
four years later. Maybe it's somebody says '"I foug!tt. the law and the law won," A painful wish ... else. I guess that I just don't know. he is admitting that as an artist he has Reed wants to show us life is futile, but he 
What I do know is that one thing that compromised his aesthetic principles for is contradicted by his passion and ardor for helped keep me alive all through high the sake of commercial success. It is this it at every turn. The •:painful wish" is for a school and the first few years of college realization that causes him to search for sterile and frigid environment in which the was the music of Lou Reed. Songs like "the only phrase that hurts," find it, and romantic side of the poet, the self he sees 
then painfully admit to himself that he is as feminine and weak, can be sheltered
"Femme Fatale," "I'll Be Your Mirror," and ''Su..tday Morning,'' with their subtly nothing more than "cheap, cheap, uptown and protected. This is why Reed shrieks at stalking melody lines and their painful and dirt." us to "leave him alone;" he's been hurt so 
compelling admissions of failure and Street Hassle is thus a portrait of the many times that he's afraid to even talk to bewilderment seemed to reflect everything artist in despair, a despair so heartfelt and anyone. Yet as the ominous chords and I thought I was going through. so deep that Reed almost falls into his own shrill sax come together at the thundering There we e also the songs of hope and miasma headlong, taking his art with him. climax, Reed drops the pretense, and we affirmation: "Sweet Jane," "Real Good The compositions are short, bitter pieces, ·hear not the bitterly spit-out refrain but a Time Together," and "Rock and Roll." shrilly sung and discordantly played, tortured cry of "love me, love me, love me, Lou Reed had suffered, gone through marked by a noticeable lack of melody and lonely boy." This isn't the snarl of the periods of tortured introspection, but out of choppy, nervous rhythms. Reed wants us ~-:>stile nihilist heard at the beginning of it he had been able to fashion some of the to think that he doesn't care, that he's just the song but an anguished plea by a hurt, 
most beautiful and moving songs I would going through the motions, and so he frightened boy, for understanding and ever want to hear. Listening to him made attempts to debase his craft by including compassion. me grow up, forced me to realize that at bad jokes like "I Want To Be Black" and In "Gimmie Some Good Times" and 
some point I would honestly and directly be trashing two of his most moving songs, "Real Good Time", Reed takes two of his able to reach out and move someone I "Sweet Jane" and "Real Good Time most beautiful and uplifting songs and really cared about. Lou Reed had moved Together. " turns them into astonishing and compelling Bad taste, however~& often the last resort 
me, someday I would move somebody. If it expressions of pain. "Real Good Time" is wasn't now ... well, that was all right, love of an artist who is unable to attract slowed down until it becomes positively would be that much sweeter when it came. attention any other way, and here it funereal, Reed singing like one of the I could wait and if it got too painful, there becomes an heroic act of defiance, a final damned. Chords are strummed irregularly 
was always Lou to see me \through. stand in which the artist strips himself of and ghostly voices float in and out; a sad Yeah and I know what you're thinking all pretense in order to communicate with parody of one of Reed's most joyful right now if you've managed to read this his audience. In writing lines as awful as compositions. Suddenly everything pulls far without throwing up. You're saying to ''I want to be black like Martin Luther together and its 1967 again. The guitars King/And get myself shot in the spring" come on strong and Reed is singingi' '!-«\~6 iC Reed is forcing his audience to reexamine through his pain, through his tears,J him, to look at him in a different light. No catching his breath and joyfully exaulting 
l ~ ~ ~ ~ 
( longer is he "Rock and Roll Animal" or the in the redemptive powers of rock and roll.
. 
~ ~ "Godfather of Punk"; suddenly he has It's a moving, beautiful experience and one become a man wrestling with his own of the few bright moments in such a dark
iC ~ 
sense of self, begging for help. work. 
"Gimmie Some Good Timee" opens THE MIKADO, the Gilbert and Sullivan ope1~ feature~ ~~ Reed could have wallp~ed fn his depair, with the glorious chords to "Sweet Jane" Mary's Theatre's 1977-78 Season. The pro and perhaps he would like ·us to think that and a dialogue between Reed and the 6,7,8, at 8:00 at St. Mary's O'luaghlin Auc ~ iC he is doing just that, t-ut his romantic "Rock and Roll Animal." While the [Susan Groeschel] and Nanki Poo [Tim Keo 
................................--------------------------------------­

In the basement of Lafortune 
At the Nazz 
The Nazz has not always been the snug little coffee house that it is today. Times were in the early 70's when the basement of La Fortune was not much more than a basement, lacking not only the essentials such as amps, mikes, and lights, but even a stage itself. The performers were mediocre at best. One singer way back then was once flattered when applause came from a man seated in the back of a sparse audience; the man, however--or so the story goes--was not really clapping, just slapping his head to stay awake. That's how the Nazz used to be .... 
"Welcome ladies and gentlemen to Jazz at the Nazz. Tonight we are fortunate to have with us the Notre Dame Jazz Band and several jazz combos," says the announcer clearly, the sound of his words vanishing into the excited rumble of the noisy room. There are approximately 150 people crowded at tables and on the floor between the pillars. Fifteen musicians prepare and practice on the softly lit stage, the yellow light reflecting off of the brass. A sax wails, then a clarinet. The audience quiets gradually to a murmur and all tuning fades. The atmosphere is warm, informal. and excited. All eyes are on the stage. One anticipates the announcer to add at any moment, "and Now. heeere's 
Johnny!" He never does. The leader of the band is Fr. George Wiskirchen, a large middle aged priest who looks more like a defensive end than a jazz band conductor. He takes the mike and greets the crowd, outlines the evening's program, and then begins with a very fresh, lively tune--"The Serpent's Tooth"--conducting in a manner which if not intense, is certainly very hip and energetic. His whole upper body-­arms, shoulders, and head--moves in time to the rhythm. "Wow," exclaims a girl at the next table, "he really gets into the music!" "Summertime," "I Remember Clifford," and "Crazy Eddy" follow, all very refreshing and colorful, and all sending fingers snapping and feet tapping. The audience, which by now exceeds 200 people, has also gotten noticeably into the music. And why not? Soaking up Jazz at the Nazz on Wednesday nights is fun. 
So too are any of the several other shows performed there throughout the week, whether it be a classical guitar concert or a comedy routine. The Nazz, is fast be­coming an integral part of the social and entertainment life on campus, a role which Enrique Lulli, director of the Nazz, is pleased to coordinate. Lulli, a resident of Cavanaugh and a native of Lima, Peru. 

took the helm in February of ''77 with two specific goals in mind: "I deci•ied that the Nazz should not only be an informal place where students could come with their friends and have a good time, but also it should provide an outlet for all the talent here at Notre Dame, a place where they could play." Lulli and his staff got to work and made some much needed improvements in the Nazz, building-a stage and purchasing the necessary hardware with money provided by the Student Union. In addition, the Sound Room in South Bend lends the Nazz, without charge, many of the amps and tape recorders they now use. 
Getting as · many performers as Lulli would like has not always been easy. Often the weekend strummer or the shower singer who is happy to perform in front of his friends jn his dorm is too shy to give the Nazz a try. "There is so much talent on campus that it is unbelievable. I know there are many people who would be great at the Nazz who don't even think about it,'' laments Lulli. 
Recruiting continues though, and new talent in one way or another finds its way to the Nazz stage. An interesting example is Jules Thompson, a very talented pianist and comedian who has performed four times this year at the Nazz. Lulli heard about Thompson's abilities through a friend who went home with Thompson on the Pitt Bus over spring break last year. The bus broke down before it reached Pittsburgh, leaving all of its occupants stranded in the snow for eight hours. Thompson came to the rescue, raising their abject ·spirits by cracking jokes, doing impersonations, and singing songs. He was a hit. "I figured if Jules could entertain a busload of people for eight hours straight," remarked Lulli, "then he could certainly perf, 1rm for four hours at the Nazz." Thompsen's act is diversified to say the least. He will often begin by playing several theme songs from T.V. serials such as "The Adams Family" or "Gilligan's Island", broadway hits, and movies--playing 'name that tune' with the audience. "O.K. folks, " Thompson asks, "does anyone know the name of the musical that last song was from?" "Mary Poppins! ", answers the audience confi­dently. "Hey," he retorts grinning, "we certainlyknow our movies now,don't we?" Next he follows with impersonations of 
sports personalities such as Howard Co­sell, Ali, and Ken Norton; cartoon charac­ters; and maybe a take-off on a commercial or two, like K-Tel Records OJ:. the Evelyn 
pat o'leary 


Wood Speed Reading Lesson. Then its back to the piano for requests which often last till 1 a.m. 
The second half of the firstannual Nazz Interhall Music Competition was held last Saturday night, bringing the contest to a close. The event, which was sponsored t(} promote hall unity and encourage Notre Dame talent to come out of hiding, was more successful than Lulli had dreamed. Anyone who attended either night of the contest will agree that the performances were excellent. There were eighteen entries in all, representing 14 halls and off-campus, and ranging from classical guitarists and singers to rock groups and jazz artists. Three guitarists from Grace-­Gene Barbanera, Jim Kotorac, and Jim Speier--were chosen unanimously by the judges as winners. •'Their music was superb and they really played together as a group," noted Lulli, one of 1.he five judges. "We all knew within the fil'st two minutes of their performance that they deserved first prize," he added. The three received $50.00. Off-campus entries Terry Dona­hue, Pam Gay, and Aubrey Payne won the second prize of $35.00. Mike Franken and Don Ginocchio took third place and $25.00. 
Three others from Fisher, off-campus, and 
Howard  tied  for  fourth  place,  each  re­ 
ceiving $20.00.  
Lulli  praised  M.C.  Jim  Dorgan  of  

WSND, the other judges, and the Nazz staff, specifically Jim Blomberg, George Wilmes, and Mike Franken, for making the event a success. He extended his gratitude to John Flaherty and Mike Golden, the presentation and publicity coordinators of the Nazz. "Next year, " Lulli said, "we hope to expand the contest to include other 
forms of entertainment, for instance, acting and comedy. Also, we intend to divide musical entries next year into different categories to make the judging easier.'' 
The contest capped a very successful year for the Nazz, one which Lulli feels can be improved next year. "A place like the Nazz with all of the talent here at Notre Dame has so many possibilities,'' he remarked optimistically, pointing out that 
"pubs at Georgetown and other schools which I have visited are packed six nights a week because they offer good food and quality entertainment. There is no reason why the Nazz cannot do the same." 
Sir Thomas' SOOth 
ASplendid Birthday Present of More 
Thomas More was quite a character. His life as a man of humor, man of God, loyal subject of the king, Chancellor of England and Saint, is a life that gave British playright Robert Bolt an intensely interest­ing subject. Bolt captured More's dilemna as a man caught between two worlds--the world of state and the world of conscience-­in his play A Man For Ali Seasons, and last weekend the ND-SMC Theatre group presented Bolt's play to a full house three nights running in honor of More's SOOth birthday--a birthday present of sorts. Their splendid recreation of More's 16th century England and director Reginald Bain's imaginative staging added up to an enjoyable evening of theatre. 
Bain's staging required imagination be­
cause the play started off with a major 
impediment. After working for three 
months on the play in the Law Library, the 
group had to relocate in the theatre of the 
Center for Continuing Education. Bain had 
two weeks to get his troupe ready. · He 
proceeded to put together a production that 
utilized the upper balconies, center stage, 
and the area between the seating sections 
that lead up to the stage. In spite of the 
physical difficulties, he created what 
appeared to be smooth transitions from 
scene to scene in a play that he originally 
staged for the round. That alone was worth 
applauding. 
But'staging is always most memorable when done poorly, and in terms of this notion it was not at all memorable. It properly took a back seat to the action in 
Bolt's p}ay because, after all, the play's the 
thing. The story of More's life and 
ma~dom is dramatic enough, so Bolt could rely simply on the story told by More's son-in-law, William Roper, for its dramatic effect. But Bolt's brilliance lay in the device he used for giving the historical play. its coherence. 
He used a central character called ''The Common Man" who tied the scenes together with historical explanations, and aided the transition from one scene to the next by talking conversationally to the audience while changing the set. This Common Man also played the minor roles (steward, jurist, jailer, executioner) and opened the play with this proposition: ''The sixteenth century was the century of the Common Man .. .like all other cen­turies.'' Indeed. All men, no matter what their title, are "common" in the sense that they all have the same classic dilemna. How does one work inside the system at times when one's conscience is at odds with that system? More is fascinating because he was a saint and a chancellor of England at a time when the two titles seemed more or less mutually exclusive. Corrupt sixteenth century England was not an easy place for a man of conscience. For following his, More lost his head. 
John Santos, as Sir Thomas More, Ciui a magnificent job. He captured both the easily amused and compassionate sides of the man, while giving us a picture of More as sincere intellect. After trying for so long to be both a loyal subject of the· king and loyal subject of his own high morality, More is sentenced to death. But first he speaks his mind. and this Santos brings off powerfully: "I.do none harm, I say none harm, I think none harm. And ifthis be not 
mark rust 

enough to keep ll man alive, in good faith I long not to live.'' 
The Common Man is played well by Sean Coleman. Coleman is always a pleasure to watch because of the high energy he brings to his characters. Although he was a very successul, impish ''Dromeo'' in Comedy of Erron last fall, he might have brought a little too much of that character with him to the Common Man. It is an intriguing part that taxes the imagination of an actor, and Coleman brings it off well in the first act with mime and comic effect. However, when his role becomes more serious in Act Two--this time as jailer and executioner-­the ambience that was useful before has the effect of diminishing the dramatic quality of More's situation. It is a very challenging role and, for the most part, Coleman does it credit. 
Mark Amenta, as Master Richard Rich, played the snotty brat very believably. Thomas Cromwell, More's political rival, was played agreeably by John Walker, who pictured him as a sort of laid-back Machiavelli. Mark Grimsich caught the morally over-zealous holier-than-thou character of William Roper nicely, and Pam Gay and Michele Roberge also turned in notable performances. 
Originally, this play was supposed to have been the climax of a "Thomas More Week" which fizzled out for one reason or another. But thanks to the quick adapta­tion of Director Bain to his new location and a stellar performance by the ND-SMC Theatre Company, the celebration was salvaged for the 1400 patrons who enjoyed the three performances. 

1.L.wO_......:Iuh.ce!IIL....:!!Io~b-.Sxx8.L.rv~eiE.JrL-____T_h_ursdayI April 27I 1978 

Quad to Quad 
Tune in to WSND (6400 AM) on Frivolous Friday and bring a musical An Tostal to Notre Dame. WSND will be playing all you favorites. So put your speakers in the windows, turn them all the way up and enjoy the arrival of spring. 
Frisbee Toss Contest 
All you frisbee flingers will get a chance to prove that those long hours on the quad are worth it at the Frisbee Toss on the South Quad at 2:30p.m. Frivolous Friday. To enter, call Mike Smaloone at 1488 or simply show-up, frisbee in hand, on Friday. 
Recess 104 
Can't decide which elective to choose? Try Recess 104: tricycles, hulahoops, jacks, 4-square, finger-painting---you name it! No prerequisites, no books, no labs, no tests, no homework. Free ice cream! Not necessarily a jock course. Fun for everyone! Dress like a kid and get a free ruler. Come to Stepan Center at 8 p.m. on Frivolous Friday, but don't forget your ID. 
Impersonations Contest 
Do a lot people confuse you with Alice Cooper or Ghengis Khan? Did that speech and drama course teach you anything at all? Ever wonder if those faces you make at yourself in the mirror are any good? If you answered yes to any of these questions, you may be a prime candidate for the annual Impersonations Contest on Frivolous Friday afternoon. 
If you're exhibitionist enough to show your talent (?) to your peers, call K.B. at 4-1-4677 to register for this event. 
Looking .for Mr. Goodbar 
Here's your fourth clue to guide ND-SMC sleuths in the on-going search for the Mr. Goodbar candy wrapper hidden somewhere on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus: Check it out with rbr. 
If you find the wrapper, submit its location and your name to the Ombudsman. One name will be drawn from all correct entries submitted and the winner of the drawing will receive dinner for two. Get hunting! 
Mr. Campus Contest 
Don't miss the famed Mr. Campus Contest tonight at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic FacilityI The competition will feature Jules Thompson as emcee and many campus luminaries, all of whom will be vying for this prestigious title. The contest will include bathing suit, evening wear, and talent competitions. 
;;;;~~~~~;;;~~~~;l 
I for anyone who is interested in t t t 
: HOMECOMING '78 : 
t Thurs, April 27, at 4:00 in t t The Social Commission Office I 
·----------------~ 
Burghardt, Pelikan to receive honorary degree~ at graduation, 
Fr. Walter J. Burghardt, profes­sor of patristic theology at the University of America and Jaroslav Pelikan, Sterling Professor of His­tory and Religious Studies and Dean of the Graduate School, Yale University, will receive the honor­ary degree of Doctor of Letters from Saint Mary's College at its 131st annual commencement, Sat­urday, May 20. 
Ruth C. Clusen, president of the League of Women Voters of the United States, will deliver the commencement address and re­ceive the degree of Doctor of Humanities. 
A ntember of the League's national board since 1966, Clusen also serves as chairman of the League of Women Voters Educa­tion Fund where she played a principal planning and policy­making role in developing the televised presidential debates in 1976. 
Burghardt is a research associate at Woodstock Theological Center, Washington, D.C., where he was professor of patristic theology for more than 25 years. . He is the editor of Theological Studies and coeditor of both Woodstock Papers and Ancient Christian Writers. A former president of the American Theological Society, Burghardt is a member of the Academic Council of the Ecumenical Institute for Ad­vanced Theological Study, Jerusa­lem, and of the International Papal Theological Commission. He is an advisory editor of the Encyclopedia of Bioethics and a consultant of the International Center of Post-Conci­liar Spirituality. 
Burghardt received The Mariolo­gical Award for distinguished con­tribution to Marian theology i 1958 and the Cardinal Spellman Award for outstanding contributions to sacred theology in 1962. He has received honorary degrees from nine other institutions of higher learning inducting the University of Notre Dame. Burghardt has pub­lished articles in more than thirty periodicals and journals and is the author and editor of eight books. 
Pelikan, who is a former member of the Saint Mary's College Board of Regents, joined the faculty of Yale University as Titus Street Professor of Ecclesiastical History in 1962. He was acting Dean of the Yale Graduate Shcool from 1973­1974 and director of the Division of Humanities from 1974 to 1975. 
Pelikan has been Dean of the Graduate School at Yale since 1975. He is also vice-president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
Among Pelikan's awards are the Abingdon Award; the Pax Christi Award from Saint John's Univer­sity, Minnesota; the John Gilmary Shea Prize bestowed by the Ameri­can Catholic Historical Association; the National Award of the World Slovak Congress; and the Christian Unity Award of the Atonement Friars. 
Pelikan is the author and editor of numerous scholarly works inclu­ding the American edition of Luther's Works in 22 volumes. He has received honorary degrees from institutions such as the Uni· versity of Hamburg, Germany, Yale University, the Catholic Uni­versity of America, Coe College and Pacifice Lutheran University. 


. 

Army to move personnel 

INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -More than 4,600 military and civilian personn el from two Army installa­tions could be transferred to Fort Benjamin Harrison here in a plan to reorganize service operations na­tionwide, the Pentagon announced yesterday. 
The move was part of a proposal by Defense Secretary Harold Brown to close, reduce or consoli­date 107 military bases in 30 states 
and save $337 million a year as a result. 
Pentagon officials briefed mem­bers of the Indiana congressional delegation on the matter Tuesday and assured them there would be no cutbacks in military operations in the state. 
But under the plan, which will be the subject of a months-long feasa­bility study, the Army's military personnel center in Alexandria, 


RARY 
CARRY OUT SPECIALS Old Style 12 pack -+ $2.79 Blatz -+ $5.05 per case McSorley Cream Ale 6 pack $1.5 Kamchatka Vodka _. $4.50 quart 
Note: TAX NOT INCLUDED 
Suppl Limited 
VA, will be relocated at Fort 
Harrison. The study also will 
determine whether the activities of 
the recruiting and command head­
quarters at Fort Sheridan, IL, also 
will be shifted here. 
The personnel center employs 980 servicemen and 1. 935 civilians. 
Another 864 servicemen and 879 
civilians could be affected in the 
Fort Seridan relocation. 
In the meantime, officials at Fort Harrison are working out the details of such a move, said Major Phillip Childress, a public informa­tion officer here. 
"We'll be involved all along with people with those two installations to determine what we'll need in the way of office space and facilities," he said. "Right now, we don't have any idea how much room it'll take or how much construction it'll need.'' 
Bradley, Hughs take elections 

Marie Bradley was voted Junior Class President and Kathy Hughes won the McCandless Hall Presi­dency in run-off elections at Saint Mary's yesterday. The run-offs followed Monday's general elec­tions. 
Bradley's ticket consisted of: Elaine Belle, Vice-President; Mary Lynn Spittler, Secretary; and Beth DeRose, Treasurer. Flo Nash gained the McCandless Vice-Presi­dency 01: the Hughes' ticket. 
The vote was not released. 

a 
Thursday, April 27, 1978 
the observer 11 
Mental patient with low IQ ''competent'' to testify 
County and Municiple Employees, INDIANAPOUS (AP) -A male according to local union president
patient with the IQ of a nine year-old is mentally competent to Clint Lowhorn. 
Yesterday's daylong hearing cell·testify against a former New Castle tered around the ability of two 27State Hospital attendant accused of year-old patients who lived insexually abusing him, the State 
Employees Appeals Commission Fiscel's ward to tell the truth and ruled yesterday. recall incidents which happened in 
However, the commission said the past. another patient, whose mental age Fiscel watched intently as Mark is that of a six year-old, will not be K., who has the IQ of a nine-year­allowed to testify when Thomas R. old, told the commission, "I sure Fiscel makes his bid to be rein­indeed do'' know the difference stated at the hospital. between right and wPOng. 
Fiscel, 35, and Franklin Robert­Puffing on a pipe and speaking
son, 27, were suspended from their without hesitation, he told the jobs at the hospital two years ago 
commission that he tells the truth 
after a female attendant said she "the biggest parts of the time" and saw the men engaging in homosex­that he was afraid if he lied it could 
ual activity with the patients on jeopardize his chances to be trans­their ward. 
ferred to a facility in his hometown Hospital superintendent Bernard of Evansville. 
Wagoner said one and possibly two "I'm very honest and truthful," young adult male patients were he said. "I don't tell no more 
involved in voluntary sexual activi­lies." ty with the attendants and lie called He provided details of the 14for an official investigation. 
years he has spent in mentalThe Henry County Grand Jury facilities and produced a ripple ofreturned indictments against both laughter when, questioned aboutmen charging them with abuse and his mental abilities, he turned tomaltreatment of patients. But the Deputy Attorney General Lew Za­charges were dismissed after the harako and asked, "You know what prosecutor said he could find no an IQ is, don't you?"
credible witnesses against them. 
Zaharako answered that he didBoth men were fired following an and the patient said matter ofinvestigation by Indiana State Po­factly, "Well, I've got a high oflice. 
76."
Fiscel, who has been unable to find another job took his case to the Stacey A. Kalter of Mt. Summit, appeals commission after the hos­who coordinates programming for pital and state Personnel Director the ward where the incidents Robert Roeder refused to reinstate allegedly occurred, said Mark K. is him. He has the support of the mildly retarded but can read, write American Federation of State, and perform basic arithmetic. 
Brzezinski off to China 
WASHINGTON [AP] • President concerned about any indications of 
Carter is sending his national improved relations between Wash­
security adviser to mainland China ington and Peking. 
next month for consu1tations that "Our relations with the Soviet 
will include talks on normalizing Union and the Peoples Republic of 
relations with the Peking govern­China are important in their own 
ment. right," he said. 
Press secretary Jody Powell said Powell and other officials stress­yesterday that Zbigniew Brzezin­ed that Brzezinski's visit would be ski, Carter's assistant for national made in the spirit of the Shanghai security affairs, would be "prepar­communique, a document signed in ed to reaffirm" the administra­Shanghai in February 1972 by tions's goal of normalizing rela­then-President Nixon, outlining tions with . Peking. Powell said, the direction he and Chinese however, Brzezinski would not be leaders hoped U.S.-Chinese rela­negotiating on the issues blocking tions would follow. diplomatic recognition. The communique, Powell said, 
Powell said he knew of no plans ''calls for this sort of exchange or for Carter to visit China, and that consultation and communication," Brzezinski would not be paving the and states that senior U.S. and way for such a trip. Chinese officials "will stay in 
Carter has indicated a reluctance contact through various channels.'' to visit China, after trips by The White House took pains to Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. portray the visit as routine, and Ford, until high-ranking Chinese Powell said that unlike Vance's leaders make reciprocal visits. trip, U.S. news reporters would not 
Brzezinski will visit China from accompany Brzezinski. Powell said May 20 to May 23 and. then travel he did not know whether Brzezinski to Tokyo and Seoul for talks with would visit any cities in China other Japanese and South Korean lead­than Peking. ers about his Peking stop, before The spokesman said Brzezinski returning to Washington. and the Chinese leaders would 
The only other senior member of focus on common strategic con­the Carter administration to visit cerns, among them the Middle mainland China has been Secretary East and Asia. One White House of State Cyrus R. Vance, who aide, who asked not to be identified traveled to Peking last August. by name, said such discussions 
Powell said that visit was not could help resolve differences and meant to send a message to the smooth the way to diplomatic Soviet Union, which is particularly recognition. 

-THE STUDENT PLAYERs­AND YOUR STUDENT UNION 
PRESENT 
A NEIL SIMON COMEDY 
''COME BLOW YOUR HORN!'' 

APRIL 28 shows at 7&10 
Saturday' 8:00 only IN THE NAZZ 

Professor Peter Geach of the University of Leeds, England, presented the second of three ledures in the inaugural series of the O'Hara Ledures in Philo­sophy of Religion last night in the Galvin Life Science Auditorium. The lectures are sponsored by the Center for Philosophy of Religion and are given every other year by a distinguished scholar. They are namd for the former president of Notre Dame. Geach spoke on the concept of truth in Anselm and Aquinas and in Frege and Witt­genstein. The next lecture will be given on Friday, April 28 in the Library Lounge. 
[Photo by Kevin Walsh] 

Trapped in Moscow 
Man tricks operator, talks to wife 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. [AP] had been home all the time,'' he called her and then called McClel­-· By tri~king the Soviet operator, said. lan, he said. University of Virginia professor Engel is connected with an 
"The Russians just weren't per­
Woodford McClellan said Tues­organization that attempts to help
mitting the calls to go through.
day he finally talked to his wife who people wishing to leave the Soviet 
The}''ve done that sort of thing
is trapped in Moscow. Union, McClellan said. 
before."
"I got the American operator to He said he has repeatedly sought 
say the call was coming from New McClellan learned Monday that help from the State Department, York City rather than Virginia,'' his wife was safe. A rabbi at and now has asked to see Secretary McClellan said. ''I think that Purdue University, Gerald Engel, of State Cyrus Vance. 
helped." McClellan said he reached his wife about 3:30a.m. EST Tuesday 
Surgeon discovers key 
--noon Moscow time--and talked to her for six or seven minutes. 
, to infant ''crib death''
"We kept the conversation pretty bland, so we didn't have any BOSTON [AP] -A pediatric as "esophageal reflux," a failure of problems," he said. "She's fine." surgeon believes he has found a the valve that normally closes off 
McClellan's Russian-born wife, key to "crib death," a mysterious the stomach juices. Irina, chained herself to the fence killer that claims the lives of 10,000 Sensitive babies have had non­at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow apparently healthy infants e1.ch fatal daytime spells in which 
last week. The Russians, claiming year. mouth-to-mouth resuscitation has Mrs. McClellan knows state Dr. Lucian Leape says suscep­prevented the crib death, and "if secrets, won't let her and her tible infants may choke to death you stop the reflux, it's been 100 daughter leave the country. when overflowing stomach juices percent effective in stopping the McClellan has been trying to get touch off a reflexive closing of the spells," Leape says.his wife out of Russia since they vocal chords. He has figured out a "From that standpoint, it's an were married four years ago. surgical way to stc-u the stomach operation that works,'' adds Leape,
Her demonstration, which conin­overflow. who says he or his colleagues have cided with Secretary of State Cyrus But he has not been able to performed SO operations in which Vance's visit to Moscow, was an explain vocal cord "sensitivity," the stomach is stitched about the 
attempt to dramatize her plight, which he says helps close off the lower esophagus to form a valve." mcClellan said. 
cords in some infants. Soviet authorities held Mrs. And he says "we're a ':•.ag wayMcClellan briefly after her arrest off'' from the next step -identify­
I (e) }ill,)I I 
last Thursday, but when McClellan ing patients before they have the 
t.1EXT TO NORTH VlllAU MALL tried to call her, "the phone just spells. rang as if she wasn't home," he Leape, of the Tufts New England 
STARTS FRIDAY said. 
Medical Center, says one factor in 
Can 22 hotel floors,
When McClellan talked to his Sudden Infant Death Syndrome is a 
42 guards, 157 cops,
wife Tuesday, she told him "she re_latively common condition known 
390 barricades and, 3,000 hysterical fans keep these kids from
mUSICAL EVEnTot theYEAR 
getting to the Beatles? 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTH BEND 
NOWAY!
and 

BETHEL COLLEGE with the SOUTH BEND SYMPHONIC CHOIR present 
An Epic Grand Ofp,ra 
April 27, 29 and Ma: '. 4, 5 I.U.S.-'. Auditorium • 7:30 pn1 Ticktb $7.50, $5.50, $150 
--OPERA IN ENGLISH _j 

Weekdays 7:20-9:30
Order tickets now. Call 237~102 Sat Sun 
1:30, 3:25, 5:30, 7:45, 9:50 


12 tb• oburyer Thursday, April 27, 1978 
. I 
! 1 


{ • 

Thursday, April 27, 1_97_a______..th'-LeiL.......:IoLibiK,;s-.e~rvlf..lleE.Ir"---__.1_.3 

Construction on the new additon to the Engineering Building has been delayed, according to Fr. jerome Wilson, the Notre Dame physical plant executive administrator. 
Wilson stated that the workers experienced "quite severe delays" because of the extreme weather conditions. "We lost at least a month due to the snow and cold weather," he said. Wilson added that the recent spring rain has also hampered work on the project. 
The expected completion date of the building i-. April 1, 1979. 
Presently, const.-uction is at the point where th• upper second floor classrooms and offices are visible. The additon also has two underground ievels, where all of the labs will be located. There is still a third upper floor yet to be built. 
Wilson remarked that even with the delays, the project has not gone over estimated costs. The original estimate of $7 million is still accurate. 

TODAY TOMORROW 
APPLICATIONS 
for all SMC Students interested in Organizing and Implementing the 1978 
********************
* * 
~ New Student Orientation ~ ~ may now apply in ~ 
******************** Student Activities Office 166 LaMans 
Deadline Monday, May I 
SCHOLASTIC 
is looking for a 
DISfRIBliTION MANAGER for the 1978=79 school year 
A few hours every other Friday 

THIS ~ A SALARIED POSITf()l\ Must have car 
for more information, contact Scholastic at 7419 
or ~ke at 3580 ......~~---.311111..... 


Thursday, April 27, 1978 • 
14 the oburver 
I 

Lame Irish bats suspect in setback 
by Craig Chval 
righthander from Shaker Heights, saders at bay for the rest of the sharpness, only three of the five Next in store for the Irish is aSports Writer OH settled down after the rocky game. Karpowicz, the owner of a runs he was charged with were weekend road trip to Cincinnati ,
At the outset of the 1978 season, start, and breezed through the fifth 2-1 record, is currently ranked earned. Bullpen ace Pete Zabros1 ...t where Notre Dame will playthe biggest question mark regard­
inning. second nationally in earned run was _given the last inning and doubleheaders against Cincinnati
ing Notre Dame's baseball squad A leadoff base balls in the The twoon average by the NCAA. one-third to get some of the rust and Xavier on Saturday and Sun­was the quality of its pitching staff. 
sixth inning came back to haunt shutout innings lowered Karpo­off, and he responded by pitching day. The Irish will need a dramaticTo the surprise of many, the Irish Bartlett, although the run was wicz' ERA to an eye-catching 0.64 hitless ball and fanning three reversal from the recent battingmound corps has acquitted itself 
u'nearned. The free pass was for 28-113 innings of work. hitters. It was Zabroski's first slump which has lowered the teamquite well this spring. Unfortu­followed by a single, only the third Saturday, the Irish hosted the appearance since the club's spring average to .235 if they hope to raise 
nately, it appears that Notre of the game for Valparaiso. After a Dayton Flyers in a twin-bill, and trip in March. their 9-15-1 record.
Dame's bat rack has been victim­fly ball to center field for the first after dropping the opener 5-2,
ized by termites. out, the next batter hit a double captured game two 8-3 to snap a 
Tuesday, for the second time in play grounder back to Bartlett, \vho seven game losing skein. 
Belles bomb Bethel, 25-3
ten days, Notre Dame lost despite a fired to Tom Caruso at second for 
Junior Mike Bobinski nursed a 
three-hit effort by its pitching staff. the force. Caruso's relay, however, no-hitter for four and two-third The latest to toil in vain were sailed past first baseman Dave 
innings before settling for a five-hit by Gregory Solman the Liz received
rally, Aerts a

freshman Bob Bartlett and senior Smith, allowing the runner to score performance. Bobinski struck · Associate Sports Editor fielder's choice knocking in one
Joe Karpowicz. The pair combined from second. out six and walked two to notch his run, Jerry Plumb being thrown out
to limit Valparaiso to just one Notre Dame halved the Val­second victory against four losses. It seemed that the St. Mary's at home trying to score. After
earned run over eight innings, only paraiso lead in the top of the The Flyers scored all their runs in Softball team was going to have a another walk and a single by Sueto see Bartlett saddled with a loss 
eighth, which started off with a the seventh inning, when the first frustrating week. First, in their 
Schneider, Anne Michel singled,in his first decision of the year, as single by Smith and a walk to Bob three hitters singled off Bobinski, scheduled Saturday game against scoring two runs. A walk to

the Crusaders gained a split in the Bader. Smith scored the only Irish and then scored on a pair of Tri-State, St. Mary's won by for­Karkiewicz, a single by Stokes, andtwo game season series. run of the day on a pair of infield sacrifice flies and an error. 
feit. Then, when Monday's game a fielding error allowing MarianBartlett, making the first start of 
outs. The Irish scored five times in the against Purdue (Calumet) was Diltz to reach base, set up the .l. his Notre Dame career, couldn't Karpowicz took over for Bartlett first inning, utilizing three walks called due to rain, the team again remainder of the innings nine runs.
find the plate in the early going, to begin the home seventh, and the and a hit batsman to set up two-run sat idly by while their frustrations A walk to Plumb and a fielder's
walking three hitters and plunking senior righthander worked two singles Smith and Gregby had time to build. choice to Liz Aerts brought home a fourth to force in a run. The hitless innings to hold the Cru-
Rodems. Catcher Jim Montagano, And build they did, until the the last tallies of the inning. whose .348 average is second on Belles released all of their pent up Diane Klucka pitched three solid the club to Rick Pullano's .389 energy against a beleagured Bethel innings for the Belles, giving up
' 

mark, doubled home for a run in team yesterday, 25-3. only two hits, before she was the fourth inning. The big inning for the Belles was rested, and relieved by Plumb. In game one, southpaw Don the third, when Amy Karkiewicz Klucka is credited with the win. 
Wolfe was handed his third singled, Telena Stokes walked, and straight loss as Dayton took advan­Mary Clark belted an in the park tage of five free passes to dump home run to put the Belles out in 
Notre Dame 5-2. front, 3-0. 
~ { 
! . 
Although Wolfe lacked his usual Diane Klucka walked to continue 
I 
;1 Women's tourney near end 
s.· 
Only five scrappy teams remain Tuesday, and thus remain. Helene
:!·· \'; 
out of the original twenty-eight as Gorman's team romped over Beth 
I / I 
the Women's Bookstore Tourna­''LaRoccaMishiana'' LaRocca's
• i 
I 
ment is winding down to the Team, 21-13, last Monday. Beth 
ll . 
nitty-gritty. Jone's Team also remains, by Yesterday, FYB advanced to the virtue of their early round 22-20
r ~ 
,. I 
final four by defeating Marge thriller over the Bean Hayeds. The 
Meagher's team, 21-16. The last team in the fabulous five, the 
Ramblin' Notre Dame defeated Ride 'Urns, defeated the Crinkles 
'· . 
Jodie Cherf's Team, and Helene 21-19 Tuesday, to advance. 
Gorman's team defeated Jet­In other action Monday, Marge
I~ 
stream, 21-11. Meagher's Team defeated The Out 
"We had a good first half," To Lunch Bunch with Munch, 21-8. commented Jetstream's Maggie Jetstream had advanced to their 
~~ ;, 
I .' 
Lally, ''but we simply let up in the game against Meagher's Team second half and they controlled the with a 21-13 win over the Dissident
L 
\ 
boards." Elements. 
Only five teams remain in the The final games will be played tournament now. FYB's advanced before the men's semi-final action 
I . 
f 
by virtue of their Monday 21-6 win Saturday, and Sunday, the day of 
I 
over The Midnight Raiders. The the men's finals, the Girls will take 
I • 
i ; 
Ramblin' Notre Darners defeated on the Jocks in the annual confron­Susan Young's Team, 21-4 last tation, replete with boxing gloves for the male athletes. 
CBDR­




Thursday Special 
Miller, Miller Lite and Bud soc a botde all night 
Friday Happy Hour Mich and Mich Lite soc 

saturday may 13 at 8 pm MORRIS CIVIC 
WITH NO FOREW~HIN6­

AUDITORIUM 
HARVIN AND 111£ THlf\D FLOOR 

tickets $6.50 & $7.50 onsaleat 
morris civic audbitm just tor the recoro boogie records, colege square 
riVer city r8cords, us 31 n. the recoro prn, beR plaza, nleS ~ 
L-----------------------~------------_.1, 



i. 

Thursday, April 27, 1978 the observer 15 
Irish so<:,cer team enjoys spring work 

by Monte Towle Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team enjoyed a great first season as a varsity sport last fall, compiling a 16-1-1 record against many of the toughest teams from around the Midwest. But such excellence can only be maintained through con­stant practice and that is what the Irish hooters have been doing this spring. 
Coach Rich Hunter requires that each of his players stay in top physical condition by working out on their own during the winter and summer months. To help facilitate their strength, stamina and sharpening of skiJls, Hunter set up a spring schedule that included a trip south. 
Over spring break, the soccer team journeyed to New Orleans for three games and came home undefeated. Two of the games were against Costa Rica's national senior club champions. Both games ended in ties with scores of 3-3 and 1-1. The Irish also registered a victory over Tulane by a score of 4-1. 
Since returning from New Or­leans, Hunter's crew put together a four game winning streak that was broken on Sunday. Included in the string were wins over Northwes­tern, Butler, Ball State and Tri-State. Sunday's loss occurred at Cedar Lake, Indiana where Notre Dame dropped a 5-0 decision to Calument United, a club team made up of former players from Purdue-Calumet. Only three of Hunter's regular starters were able to make the trip which was marred by a knee injury to midfielder Tom Crotty. 
The Irish will finish their spring season at home on the Stepan 
NOTICES 
"Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call 287-5162." 
Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh & back for An Tostal week­end. She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company! Call 6734 
Dissertations, Manuscripts, Etc...typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 
287-4971 
Typing-Selectric Typewriter. Experien­ced-Term Papers,dlssertations. Reason­able -Accurate. 232-5715 
Nuns-summer rent June through August 4bedroom house tri-level 255-5879 after 5 p.m. 
Save next year's book money now. PANDORA'S buys used books for cash or credit-applicable next year. Besides, we have great books for summer reading. 937 South Bend Ave. 11-6 daily. 
Long Island truck filling up. Deadline tor deposits May 6. Send $5.00 to Kevin Mescal!, 319 Alumni Hall. Questions call Kevin 1181 or Ed 7443. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-D898 "When you want the Best" 
Attention: All ND-SMC Logan Center volunteers and interested students : 'fhe council for the retarded is taking some of the children to the An Tostal carnival on Thursday night, from 6:30-8:30 p.m. A car will pick up St. Mary's students at the Holy Cross Circle at 6:00. All other students that are interested should meet at the Children's Hospital at 6:15p.m. If you have questions, please call Mike Wolohan at 1216 ot Sue McKinney at 4-1-4873. 
Don't Forget! The Logan kite flying recreation period is from 9:()().11 :30 a.m. this Saturday morning at Logan Center. A little kite building and flying will get you In good spirits for the An Tostal events later in the day, if you have questions please call Mike at 1216 or Sue at 4-1-4783. 
FOR RENT 
Staying tor the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Rent my sun porch In fall. $40.00 per month. Ask for Patty In orders 233-1329 nights. 
Center field hosting North Park 
College. The game is set to begin 
at 2 PM on Saturday and is open to 
everyone. The spring season is 
almost over, but already Rich 
Hunter has seen a lot of good 
things. 
"I have been very pleased with the spring workouts and all of the players have done a wonderful job," Hunter points out. "It is important that all of them develop a mental, as well as a physical toughness.'' 
Once the soccer players leave school for the summer break, their soccer training is far from over. As far as Rich Hunter and his players are concerned, the soccer season entails a year round activity. 
"I expect every player that hopes to stay with the team for the regular season in the fall, to play with a team back home over the summer," Hunter adds. "When they return in the fall, I will expect every one of them to be in excellent shape." 
In fact, Rich Hunter himself will keep engrossed in soccer during the summer months. As he did last year, Hunter will be going to Poland for two weeks in August. During that time, he plans on watching the Polish national soccer team, one that is rated near the top in World Cup consideration this year. 
The spring season has also been advantageous because of the op­portunities it offers Hunter to experiment with strategy and also work on the basics. 
"We've been workin~: on our air game all spring, especially on volley kicks," Hunter explains. ''I've also been teaching the new players our system of play which employs a man-to-man defense.'' 
.Sublet : 5/15 or 6/1 to 9/1 2bedroom apt., fully furnished, very nice, 284-9562 9-12 a.m. 287-8547 7-11 p.m. 
4-5-6 bedroom houses near Portage and Angela. Rent adjusted to number of students. These are well maintained houses Call 234-6688 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST:Giasses, wire-rim in brown case. Front of Morrissey. Please call Steve 3419. 
FOUND:Timex watch with black leather band at the volleyball courts near the towers. Call Ted 3209 
FOUND:General Motors car keys in the field behind the AC<>. Call 2132 
FOUND: Timex Watch by Saint Mary's Lake Call 2132 
LOST: Blue NO jacket at Nickle's REWARD name in jacket 
LOST:Notre Dame warm-up jacket while I was playing Bookstore with the TILCS. Call: KEVIN8989 
LOST: One blue fiberglass raquetball rquet with leather grip. REWARD. Call 1605 if found. 
LOST Gold watch with engraved back. Lost in the north dining hall, Farley Hall or the road to SMC. Great sentimental value. Reward Call Kathy 6791 
LOST: Opal necklace lost Sat. a.m. on campus. Reward Call 288-9912 after 5 p.m. 
LOST: 45 foot silvery Kite, 3:30 p.m. April 13. over campus Larry, 233-5151, 233-7299 
FOUND: A 1978 St. Anselm's college class ring. Found In the library Call 7825. 
FOUND:one set of keys, between north dining hall and Hagar Claim at Observer office 
FOR SALE 
2-piece custom pool cue. U.S. open model, 1year old new $100, but l'lllet It go for $60. Contact Jimbo 141 Dillon, 1615 
Full color Cottom Bowl and USC football; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated material at a low price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm 
[Continued from page 16] 
In the delayed game to deter­mine the winner of the "Nappy" Napolitano sectional, the Jackson Five, lead by Mark Norman's nine points, defeated the TB Express IV, 21-18. 
The TB Express was down at one point, 11-4, before Duck Williams caught fire and brought the TB Express back into the game. Williams ended with nine points. 
For the Jackson Five, namesake Tracy Jackson put in four shots. Jim Siner was 3-for-3, and Mike Van Acker added three more. 
The Jackson Five will face the 300 Percent Club behind the Book­store today to determine which team goes on to Friday's compe­tition. 
After that game, it will be down to the "Elite Eight" on what might prove to be a most interesting 
Stereo equipment major brand discounts on fully guaranteed, factory sealed audio-video eqpt. Elliot Enterprrses, Park Court, Buchanan, Mich. 49107 Call Niles toll free 683-Q121 
For Sale: Domex refrigerator. Has a freezer and comes with Ice trays $45 call 3058 
For Sale: Loveseat style couch that has a hideaway bed. Comes with new matt­ress. Call 3058. 
For Sale: Gibson LG-S Guitar Perfect condition $325 call Terry 288-3706 
For Sale: Refrigerator 4 cubic feet excellent condition call 1249 
Sansui receiver, nonworking condition, $50, Teac reel to reel, $130, Pioneer Speakers, $100, Garrard turntable, $35. 8338 
WANTED 

New Restaurant needs waitresses and Kitchen help. Experience helpful, but not necessary. Apply In person after 1 
p.m. at Aunt Mike's Breakfast Barn, 512n U.S. 31N one block north of Auten Rd. Ask tor Aunt Mike. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer year-round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free lnformation­Write1 BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14 Berkeley, CA 94704 
Summer Church Camp Positions. Coun­selors for Boy's Cabins. WSI's with current certification. Some college background preferred. Good salary. Send resume to 333 West Colfax, South Bend attn: Beem 
female roommate prefer grad student summer or summer and next school year call Pam 2297 or 288-7468 
Riders needed to Denver/Lake Tahoe after 9 May Call Paul 6329 
Female exiCUtlve would llkt to rent furnished houa or large apartment, 3 or 4bedrooms. Children vl1lt on Wllklnds. Call Ann Brunstun, 233-4101 
Looking for 3 female roommates for the summer at Campus View Apts. Call Bertie 277-2798 
WANTED: steel-stringed accoustlc guitar. PAY CASH Joe Higginbotham 232-()723 
Friday afternoon of competition. same time. It will be TILCs against Tappa Kegga Brus will take on the winner of Jackson Five and the Chumps II at 5:30 behind the 300 Percent Club on one court, and bookstore, where all of Friday's at the same time, next to them, games will be played. Strapamasquon and the Combat 
At 6:20, spectators, will be Wombats will take on Leo's Last. turning heads from court to court The day's action will end at 7:00, like in watching a tennis match, as when the Butcher Brothers will two games get underway at the encounter the TB Express I. 
Blue-Gold contest slated 
The annual Blue-Gold intrasquad adults, $1.00 for children 17 and football game winding up spring under. Tickets will also be avail­practice will be held in Notre Dame able at the stadium the day of the Stadium on Saturday, May 6 at 2:00 game, priced at $3.00 for adults PM. and $1.50 for children. Dates, 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's spouses, parents, etc. must have students will be admitted upon tickets. No seats will be reserved. presentation of ID cards at gate The game is sponsored annually fifteen only. by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of 
General admission tickets for the St. Joseph Valley and supports the public are available at the ticket club's scholarship fund which cur­sales window, Athletic and Convo­rently sustains twelve students of cation Center, priced at $2.50 for this area at the university. 
Wanted: Summer renttn for nice houa 3 

Mikado & Tuber,
br..cks from campus -3,4 or 5 people Call 
Congratulations • I told you that you
28J.8148 

weren't reJects. Roland
Wanted: Summer renters for nice house 3 blocks from campus -3,4, or 5 people. 

Vote for Alumni's favorite dog -Otto for
Call 283-8148 

UMOC 
Living in Boston this summer and need a 

Have an ugly roomie? An obnoxious prof?
place to live? Call 283-8148. 
VOTE FOR UMOCI 
Looking for summer employment? Doc 
Roses are Red
Pierces Saloon is hlrlnQ food servers, Sugar Is sweetbartenders, and cocktail waitresses. 
But Otto's faceMust be able to train immediately Apply Sure can't be beat.
in person 2-6 p.m. 120 Main St. 
Otto for UMOC
Mishawaka Cheeks, If I said you had a nice body would you
PERSONALS 

hold it against me? (I'd probably keep me up)Hiarcuts, trims, styles, cheap! Call Tall Boy
Betsy, SMC 4530 Get in style for Spring! Latest cuts for
There will be live female acts at the no men. Armando's 2n.0015 Ask for Kim.
talent show. Plus beautiful female judges including Grace F. from Walsh 
Skippy, Sorry about the hassle. I'II love you forDillon No-Talent show this Friday Nlte. 
my roommate!
Between Dillon and Alumni courtyard PICKLESbring beer and blankets P.S. Too bad fellas. 
KEGGER IN Grt1n Fltld prior to the no Puppy-Dog­
talent show evtryone wtlcomt this Frtday You're right -less anxiety about the
nltt 
future-let's try hope, anticipation Shower Mate
SMC NO Students: Are you an adopted child? volunteers needed for a sociolo­
Chris,
gical project. Please contact: Claudia 
I Love You will all my heart
SMC 4544 confidentiality & anonymity Kerry
assures. Fetta stone, l_
Anyone interest In serving as Press Happy 21st! Break that Senior Bar card
Secretary for Student Union's Cultural 
in the right way tonight!!!
Arts Commission should Contact Jerry at 
Love, P.K.

6721. Observer experience desire but not necessary. 
Scotty, Quick!! I need a schmoo!!
Ride needed to Chicago anytime Friday Your Schmooasaurus
the 28th call Matt 1728 Will share expenses 
Happy Birthday Karen Yeager -from various and assorted friends aroundMike, Julie and Snue­
campus -the lake is waiting !
Thanks for being such good running mates. It was fun even though we didn't 
Wildehaln and Juicy-eyes for siamesemake It (must have been a miscount!) I UMOC-glve your two cents worth to boost
would say next year, but... 
their ugly egos.
Love-"The other loser" 

SANDY, HOW VA OOIN? 
Lwa.BIIICiassifieds 

! ..... 



16 the ObS8r¥8f Thursday, April 27, 1978 
Anticipate Drake meet 
Two-milers shine at Kansas Relays 
by Frank LaGrotta Mexico's Charles Dramiga coming behind Villanova. We're really Sports Writer out of the final turn to win going psyched, we've had good practices 
away. The stopwatch read 7:26.2 -this week and we have a lot of After Notre Dame's come-from-be­both an Oklahoma track and Notre confidence in ourselves. We'll just hind win over top-ranked Mar­Dame school record. West Texas have to wait and see." quette on the basketball court, a State finished second and New Allmendinger feels that the at­sportswriter covering the game Mexico came in third. mosphere at Drake will give the 
wrote: ''It was a great accomplish­Irish an advantage. "First the Cotton Bowl and now ment," commented Joe Piane, "I really enjoy the Drake meet," 
this. It appears that Notre Dame is head track coach at Notre Dame. • he reveals. "I've run at Penn and at its best when they play the "However it wasn't a complete in the Kansas Relays and I'd have best.'' surprise. This is only the fourth to say that Drake is probably the _ 
Those words rang true last time these four guys have run best as far as competition and 
Saturday as the Irish giant killers together and up to this point they running conditions. Those things struck again. The scene: Okala­have been gaining experience at tend to make a team perform homa University's outdoor track, each meet. They have improved better." site of the 1978 Kansas Relays. with each race." Piane couldn't agree more. The victims: New Mexico, the 1978 Does Piane foresee a national "We're going to hit some tough Indoor 2-mile national champions championship in the future? competition in Iowa,'' the coach 
and West Texas State, winners of "It's possible," he concludes. points out. "Illinois, who won it the prestigious Texas Relays. The "We'll lose Bill (Allmendinger) to last year, will be there along with winners: Bill Allmendinger, Chuck graduation this year but Miranda Wisconsin, Missouri and Murray Aragon, Peter Burger and Jay and Berger are Sophomores and State. We've been working hard, Mir~nda -Notre Dame's 2-mile Aragon is only a freshman. If they we're running well and we're relav team. continue to improve the way they looking forward to this weekend to 
''This is definitely our biggest have all year and we find someone see just how good we are." win and it feels great," commented to take Bill's place then I'd have to Besides the 2-mile squad, Notre MiranJa who anchored the team think we have a shot at the national Dame will also enter their 4-mile and turned in the best time at title." relay team (comprised of Dennis 

1:50.3. "We were in awe of these There is little time to savor the VanderKraats, Steve Welch, Joe people coming into the meet and victory because the foursome will Strohman and Dan Horgan) and the we hoped we could stay close and run again this weekend at the distance-medley relay team with 
do the best we could.'' Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa. Aragon running the one-half mile The. best they could do was The Drake meet, along with leg, Kurt Spieler the one-quarter, 

plenty enough. Individually, Ara­Kansas, Penn and t'le Texas Re­Allmendinger the three-quarter, gon lead off with a 1:51.2 before lays, is regarded as L e "f the top and Miranda anchoring the race, passing the baton to Burger who events in the coum '! and Bill running the mile. Piano is optimis­
finished his leg in 1:52.6. Allmen­Allmendinger thinks tl: : .am has a tic about both events. dinger took over, did his work in good chance to make h two in a "We think we can place in all 
1:51.9 and handed the stick to row. events," he states. "Both the "We'll have to run as well or nice turnaround. Some people Miranda. "We can definitely win it," the 4-mile and the medley teams are in better than we did in the Kansa!, thought last Saturday was a fluke, 
The gutsy sophomore patiently senior runner from West Babylon, top shape and they expect to do meet to win the Drake," empha­but I really think we can do it waited for his chance. When it New York emphasizes. "After last well." sizes Peter Burger. "For a change, again." came, he kicked around West Saturday we have the second best And of course there's the 2-mile people will be gunning for us rather If they do, some people may start Texas' Joseph Kemei and New time for yards in the country team. than us gunning for them. That's a calling the giant killers a giant. 
Chumps, TILCS escape elimination 
by Gregory Solman manipulation of the sectionals. Not two consecutive shots by Latz. "She's bad enough off herself. I his quest for the "Hoosier Award" Associate Sports Editor so, said Latz, and his team might Batton drew a chorus of boos for saw her picture in the dog-book, on a good note, throwing up have proved yesterday that they kicking the ball in the air after a and which is an appropriate name thirteen shots, to bring his tourna­In all of the confusion, paper­did indeed deserve to make the list foul call, and the stage was set for in regards for her, because I've ment total just two shy of the magic 
work and excitement of Bookstore of the last survivors. an excellent finish. seen poodles better looking." "100" mark. The "Hoosier
'i
I ·, Basketball, somebody forgot some­Led by Paul Reilly's ballhandling Jerry Anderson notted the game Anyway, back to basketball--and Award" is annually given to the thing. genius and Dan Short's deadeye, at 14 with a good move underneath. there was plenty of it in the clash player who demonstrates the most
l' . 
j 'I Not one told Leo Latz that he the Guard made 1t a close first half, Dan Short hit from outside to put between Tappa Kegga Brus and desire to put the ball in the air with 
,. ' ~ 
.; couldn't win his own tournament. while Dave Batton, Willie Fry, Bill the Guards in front by one. Then, Larry's Laundrymen, which Brus reckless abandon. Martin, in his In fact, his entire team played Sheehan, Mike Miller and Joe after Willie Fry had tied up the won 21-14. Bill Laimbeer of the five games, threw up 20, 22, 29, 14 seemingly in ignorance of that fact, Montana kept that incredible TILCS game, muscling his way inside, Brus bruised the boards, hauling and 13 shots for a grand total of 98, as the legendary TILCS (that bas­machine rolling. Short and Fry scored again to tie in down an incredible 19 rebounds, and is indeed the heavy favorite at tion of jockism) narrowly defeated First half highlights: crunching once more before Mike Miller put while throwing in nine points of his this point. the Irish Guard (the People's "stuffs" by Batton on Latz, and by the TILCs out in front to stay. own in his spare time. Jim Fritsch It was dubbed a classic Choice), 21-17. Short on Sheehan; Leo Latz' left­''Any team that has made it to kept the beer-barrel flowing by "grudge" match, and revenge was 

It was billed as the "prove it!" handed hook against big Willie Fry the final sixtt~en is bound to put up adding six points of his own and indeed sweet for the Butcher ·match for the Tournament Com­to make the score 9-7, TILCS ; and quite a fight,'' reflected Batton grabbing five rebounds. Ross Brothers, who defeated the Nut­
I. l missioner's feisty Irish Guard. Dave Batton's graceful moves in­after the game, "and it gets Christenson had a bad day from meggers by a score of 21-14. The 
I; Some had dared to claim that Latz' side to keep the TILCS ahead. tougher as it goes along.'' the field, sinking only one in nine Nutmeggers had eliminated the team had made it to the ''Sweet The Irish Guard fought back On the losing sideline, Paul attempts, but redeemed himself Brothers in each of the past two Sixteen" only through his clever from an 11-8 halftime deficit with Reilly wiped blood from his pain­with five boards. years. 
racked face, and commented, in Airing out the laundry for Larry's Ironically, it was the "unknown" all sincerity, "With the team they men, Chris Fabian hit four buckets, backcourt, rather than the highly­have, they (theTILCS) should have Larry Chun and John Vellutato put tauted frontline of Dave Huffman, more killer instinct.'' And he was in three apiece, Vellutato grabbing Kevin Hart and Bruce Flowers, serious. what Laimbeer did not, with ten that put in the points for the 
In other '• Sweet Sixteen'' action, rebounds. Butcher Brothers. Bill Seeger was Strapamasquon and the Combat Leo's Last incited a successful 9-for-13 and Tom Feifar was five of Wombats defeated the Milk Duds coup d'etat against the PLO Bus seven, accounting for over one-half 21-18 in a close game throughout. Tour, to the tune of 21-11. The of the Butchers' points. Flowers The Wombats' Kelly Tripucka was Last's 21-for-38 from the field did control the boards, however, 11-for-24 from the floor, Greg proved to be enough, as Rusty snatching 10 rebounds. Knafelc sunk five of 10, and Pete Lisch threw home seven, Steve Tim Kardok bowed out with a holohan scored three and hauled in 'Tiny' McDaniels hit for five more, graceful seven points, and Mark five boards, shy only of Tripucka's and Dana Snoap, two time all-book­Meyer aided the losing cause with seven. store player, added four to the three more. 
For the Milk Duds, who last year scoreboard, and grabbed six re­In what just might have been made it to the Elite Eight, Tim bounds. the most exciting game of Book­O'Neil was 6-for-9 with six re­For the PLO Bus Tour, Jim store Basketball this year, the bounds, Tom Spangler had five and McCloskey had four buckets, ar :) Chumps II defeated the Green Jim Budde knocked in four more John Ryan contributed three tot •. Popcorn, 22-20. The Chumps, who for the Duds, who, after a brilliant effort. were down at one time 19-15, were 
'-tournament, finally went sour. Hats, and heads, off to Roland's lead to the comeback by Bill "Foo" 
Kelly Tripucka,on hand after the Headless Thompson Gunners, the Hanzlik's three consecutive foul TILCS-Irish Guard matchup, com­surprise team of the tourney, who shots. Tom Sudkamp tied the mented "We have a fine team, and were able to handle the first TB game as only "Suds" could, with a I think that if we play together well Express team they faced, but met 10 footer from the corner to tie it at as a team, we can have a fine their match agamst the pheno­19. Along with Hanzlik's 11 points showing this tournament. Even menal Orlando Woolridge's TB and 17 rebounds, it proved to be though this is playground ball, a Express I Team, 21-14. enough. team still has to play well to win." Woolridge was incredible from The losing factor for the Gil­
Tripucka is also, though reluc­way outside, and from close in (he berta Salinas-led team proved to be tantly, parttcipating in An Tostal had two slam-dunks), hitting nine the Popcorn's inability to get the through his nomination as an of 11 and capturing seven boards to ball past the 10 second line, "Ugly Man'' candidate. Said lead TB Express I to the victory. causing crucial turnovers. Salinas Tripucka of his nominator, un­Jim Stone added seven points for ended with seven points and twelve known senior girl ·from Notre Express, and Ty Dickerson collec­rebounds, Steve Notaro added six, Dame, "I don't know who she is, ted eight rebounds in addition to and.Ed Durbin finished with five. but she certainly has no right to his three points. 
[Continued on page 15]

nominate mel" he said, laughing ... Bruce Martin of Roland's ended . 







