
•. I •
.•.. _ 
'• ·.) 
'...... . ·.,l.. .> 



Saturday, August 26, 1978 an independent student newspaper sening notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No. 1 

Overcrowding greets freshmen 
by Michael Lewis 


by Jean Powley News Editor 
Sabat Muy'• Editor 

Freshmen will find some over-"It is not a crisis situation like we crowding when they arrive at Notre had two years ago, but we are Dame due to an increasing trend tighter than we want to be," Dean 
-~~ among upperclassmen to live on of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice campus, Edmund T. Price, director said of Saint Mary's housing of housing, stated.· " overcrowding. 
"More upperclassmen than "" ·· expected want to stay on campus," It is expected that only 24 . Price explained. He noted there " students will need emergency 
seems to be a "national trend" to , housing this year, whereas in 1976 stay on campus, pointing out that • the college had to use classrooms Ball State, the University of Michi-1. and lounges to handle 100 extra 
gan and U.S.C. all "have problems "' · students. with housing." • Also this year's "emergency Director of Admissions John T. housing" is considerably n.ore Goldrick said, "A lot of people glamorous than the Regina Class-think the dorms are overcrowded rooms used two years ago. The because too many freshmen are alumnae guest rooms in LeMans accepted. That's not true." He and the parlour rooms in Holy 
explained that the admissions Cross will be used to house the ofice originally expected 1 ,650 students. freshmen to enroll, incJuding 400 Rice emphasized that according 
women and 1250 men. to recent statistics it is expected 
As of yesterday, Goldrick: said that enough students will not show "about 1,645 students" are up so that only 12 students will expected.~! based on previous:ar's need the special housing. 
·year's:! statistics. 
Price said that some figures wiiJ "Every year some kids just don't be changing due to attrition and show up for one reason or last minute changes in student's another," she explained. plans. "The reason for this year's 
Several residence halls will have overcrowding was not that we freshmen living in converted study incorrectly predicted the number of halls. Grace and Flanner will each _ freshmen, but that upperclassmen house 36 freshmen in nine study -did not withdraw at the normal halls. Lewis hall will house eleven rate, which really says something freshmen in studyI dining areas, good about the college," Rice and 16 freshmen are scheduled to • continued. live in the Farley Hotel, in the ""' ' 
basement of Farley Hall. Over the past five years, Saint 
While none of the extreme . ...., Mary's enrollment has grown tre­measures to board students are 1 mendously • so that many triples permanent, Price said he does not .... _ " have been made into quads, quads know how long they will be in -'··· ···"-"'··· into quints, and ~0 on·. 
effect. This year Rice and Minnie 
Price said the study halls are Owens, director of housing, plan to fully equipped as rooms. The spend some time touring the biggest problem, he stated, is C"..... .._. rooms. They will then decide "depriving others use of the study which rooms to split into two 
rooms." smaller rooms, thus creating more 
Bro. Charles Burke, rector of ..,. ••...,. 11 doubles and triples and fewer Grace, said the converted study . quints and quads.lounges are ''really not bad rooms." He noted that "there will ' ,.. "We want to make life more be a problem when the other : comfortable for the students by students return expecting study alleviating the crunch that has lounges." occurred over the past five years, 
'Price stated that there will be no ..,. while maintaining the same num­off-campus lottery among upper-ber of students,'' Rice said. classmen this year. However, he This year's enrollment is 1557 said, "It's something to think resident students and 1800 total, 
about for next year." .__.._..."""""_.......,........,...._...........,.,..,_.__............,..,..,.""""'""""_.""""".._..........,.-.....................,......,_.-.---.""""'""""""""----.................,...,.,.....................,..........,........,~~ includi!lg those studying abroad. 
ABC denies SMC 21-Ciub license for beer, wine 
by Jeaa Powley But the appeal was also denied SaJnt Muy'• Editor by the commission which said that the law meant the bar had to be at
Saint Mary's 21-Club, the club 
least 200 feet off campus. Thefor 21 and over students, faculty letter further stated that the com­alumnae and administration of mission felt it would be a badSaint Mary's and Notre Dame, will precedent to grant a permanentnot be opening its doors this fall. 
fi.cense to students.
The Indiana Alcoholic Beverage ''The commission doesn't under­Commission has denied the club a stand that the license gives thepermanent beer and wine license on administration more control overthe grounds that it is not 200 feet alcohol on campus than we ha~e ataway from the campus. 
present, •• Laverty said. 
The initial license denial, accord· ing to Mary Laverty, Saint Mary's "I feel that we're being treated director of student activities, came unfairly and unjustly. All that wort last April. The commission dispu­seems to have gone to waste. This ted the fact that the 21-Club was a was a project on which the whole social club and said that it did not student body cooperated fully and comply with the rule that a bar must pulled it off in a very well-organ-­be at least 200 feet away from a ized fashion." she continued. church or a dassroom. The college Indiana Alc:oholk Beverages 
appealed the ruling, pff"'ing tbat Commissioa Chairman James Sims the club was a social clt~b :~~d that ~,.as unavallable for comments Fri­it was at least 200 feet away from day afternoon, as was Bill Loser. all classrooms and church~-another c:om.missioD official.

I_--~---~---·-·-·· ----------------­
L -'"·-· _.._ --. ··---------==----_.....,...._______ -·--"" ---~--.--·-·-..-.··--~ -~-...------~-====-':'::·,....·=========-:=-:'::::1.__.::_____. 


Saturday, August 26, 1978
2 1.he observer 
weather 

Mostly cloudy ~ith a slight chance of ~p.wers and thundershowers Saturday afternoon \hrough Sunday. Highs both days in the low to mid 80s. L,>ws Saturday night in the mid 60s.' 
On Campus Today_~ 
10 am -2 pm campus tours, saint mary's college, on the hour, 

1-4 pm 
1:30pm 
2:30-4 pm 4:30pm 
5:15pm 5:30pm 
7:3(, pm 8 pm 
9 pm 9 pm 9:30pm 
sunda.., 8 am 9 am 
9 am 

leave from lemans court 
.. 

campus tours, notre dame, on the hour, leave from 
main circle welcome talk, by smc administrators, o'laughlin auditorium 
briefing, for new students and parents, smc 
mass, for new students and parents, smc, lemans court president's reception, smc, south side of dining hall picnic, smc administration and parents council, 
dining hall green 
official w~lcome, nd, ace 
welcom, "something wonderful is coming", by smc sophomores, o'laughlin auditorium meetings, for nd freshmen by hall staffs, in each hall 
meeting, for parents by dean hofman, ace meetings, for smc freshmen by hall staffs, in each hall 
mass, smc, church of loretto 
guidance session, for nd freshmen meeting, smc abroad study programs 


1f am -1 pm campus tours, smc, on the hour, lemans court mass, smc, church of loretto am 


welcom mass, nd freshmen and parents ace
. . , 
·,! ·m open house academic, smc 
~-·rr, 

pu:nic, nd freshmen and parents, ace ·1 pm presentation, introduction to student activitie.s, au 
:.! •1m briefing, freshmen information survey and registra­tion briefing. smc 
2:30 & 7 pm auditions, nd choral, see ad on page six 3:3G pm 
mixers, by halls for students and parents in each hall ' 
7 pm 

orientation, for women, memorial library auditorium 7 pm 
party, pre-dance party, keenan hall 9 pm 
dance, by student government, concourse of ace 
monday 

i 
!8:30 -4:30 pm registration, for nd students 
I j 8:30 -4:30 pm registration, for smc students 
l9:30 am & 7 pm auditions, nd choral, see ad on page six 
Spm 5:45pm j7 pm 
js:30 pm 
tuesday 8 am 9 am 8 pm 

dinner, smc madonna night buffet, smc dining hall dessert, smc madonna night, dining hall green ceremony, smc madonna night, church of loretto square dance and bonfire, nd and smc, mccandless 
lawn 
classes start 

auditions, nd choral, see ad on page six 
concert, by student union social commission, south 
quad 


~------~ 
*The Observer f 
iC¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥1 (¥¥ ·~ ~Just when you thought it was safe ! 
: to go back in the bars... lf. 


!C0 RBlT'Spresents a 
: THE SECOND ANNUAL ! 

Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan 
Asst. Night Editors: Margie Brassil, Sue Wuetcher 
Layout Staff: Steve Odland Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Lisa DiValerio, Mardi Nevin Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Ad Layout: Bob Rudy Photographer: Doug Christian 
The Observer I• published Mon­dey through Fridey except durtng exem end vaation periods. T~Je Observer is published by the students of Notre Derne Md Seint 
Miry's College. Subscriptlonamey be purdlesed for no per y..r (S 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme. lndiene 46556. SKOnd ~~~ postete peld, Notre Dime, Indiana. UU6. 
The Obaerver Ia a member of the AIIOCIItH Preaa. AII repro­duction rights are reservH. 
.
MOLSON PARTY ~ 
BOTILED MOLSONS 754 ~ 
"""­

llf" 
TUESDAY NIGHT 9 to CLOSE • 
" YOU'RE A GOOD MAN CHARLIE BROWN" 

~ 
_.... 
1' 
wiD be held lues, sept.5 ad wed, sept. 6 AT 7 pm II THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
THE PRODUCTION WD.L BE SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT PLAYERS UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE STUDENT mol CULTUBAL ARTS 
COIDISSIOI 
ALL STUDENTS ABE INVITED 1U ADDmON 


-----~~-------­
\ 
Saturday, August 26, 1978 
3
the observer 


SMC Freshmen orientation commences 
by Je1111 Powley Saint Muy's Editor 

''We can't possibly tell-freshmen everything they need to know about college life in a 48-hour period. During those first few days they're more interested in getting used to their room, roommate~ and new friends anyway," Mazy Laverty, Saint Mary's director. of student activities explained. 
That is the philosophy behind Saint Mary's new orientation pro­gram--''ASK.'' 
''ASK is a combined effort by Mary Ellen Klein of the freshman office and myself to give students a complete orientation to all aspects of college life," Laverty stated. 
The four Tuesday night sessions from 6:30 to 8 p.m., Aug. 29 through Sept. 19, will address such matters as how to organize one's work, become acquainted with South Bend and the ND-SMC community, student government, how to use texts, developing special study skills, student activi­ties, library information and career development. 
The sessions will be mandatory for all freshmen. 
"We want to give them the necessary information in a clear-cut way so that they can take fuU advantage of the services we have 

.........................................IIIMIIIN IJIIII.......IIIIIlllllllli......IIIIIHIII.......IIIIIIIJIIIIILIIIIII 
Welcome Week 
by MJcbael Lew New1 Editor 

Monday kicks off the first annual 
Welcome Week, sponsored by the 
Notre Dame Student Union. A full 
week of activities has been sche­
doled "to help create a social 
atmosphere," according to Student 
Union Director Bill Roche. 
"We knew we wanted to created :a social atmosphere, and we 
: J J d 
UV\Ot\ 0!1: 7.9.1fhJll. ~~ 
:1 ,... 

j est ibs 



i in Town
i
•
* 
• 
I 
at theI

wanted to get going right beginning,., Roche said. He added, "In the past the Union has 1 always waited to schedule activi-1ties, and the haJJs aren't organized: yet, so we've tried to organize a loti of activities for this week." c to offer them. This will be their bpportunity to ask any questions they may have," Laverty said. 
The sessions will be held in O'LaughJin Auditorium and the Little Theatre. 
Along with ASK, the freshman office offers counseling for its students. Advisors help students select the courses that will be most beneficial to them. The office also makes sure that all freshmen take the required core courses. 

The total cost for the week will beiCDCD)~~~l:ml]) ~ tion chairperson. Ewing, co­
approximatedly $6,000, according to Roche, although some return revenue is expected from admis­sions and refreshment prices. 
0odf wiQQ be ghowtt Ul the 1 
H .i· 
8flgi.t1P.e.~i.t1g ~uditOJliuln, odmiSSi..Otl Sf. 
~ Jll. bon~e and gquoltedonce i.t1 l;tont 0~ ;.;UcCm1dQess tJJoDQ at ~uUC. ~10tmOil00 b4 ,Qt, ,_.,AA.o~~4 's ,Qtudent ~Ctivities {0f.N-ce. 
=--__________.c
I Cl. d
vUeg 04: ~Jn. outdoo!l concetrt bootlllliJ\g ,__AppoQoooo. 0 

gQom'~~. <Dh Qodf wiQQ be showt1 ot 7.q.fl~Hn. 
1 

CUJedne!!day: Piellie 011 gouu. Q.ad. [i>J•. doub& -cI 
I 

f,eofulre mollie. gjoung g:'!Oil~t~Steitl ond ~Qeepell.l 
i 

wiQQ be sl1own iJt gtepo11 CentM. odmissiOtl !:J. 


r~ottePM iJt h'lOilt of, rnown~d. 
gotuttday: ~oQ;sl, weddi11q i11 gtq1ott Centetr. wit/, o poQko bottd. the hOC~ bottd Chotce. m1d ,~e~esl\lllet'~. 
oo.-.c~o.-~o~-•o 
chairperson Chris McNulty. and a committee of eleven students have ~~mg been meeting since March to plan 
~ the events.
· 
With an enrollment of close to 1800 students, Saint Mary's College, will officially open its 13Sth academic year with a Mass of the Holy Spirit on September 3, 
1978. 

Saint Mary's enrollment figure has been holding steady at around 1800 students for several years, 
reflecting the increasing rate of applic~tions to the College. The 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO. ROSE & SUE ARE YOTJR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 
Mon-Sat 8 to 6 
................................................................................................................................ 
Next ll > ~he Distille 1 ~ 

:····················································· L----~~~------------------~ 
~ Welcome Back Students 
i * 
from 
'* LEE'S B.B.Q.
~ ~ 1132 South Bend -Aue. * 
! B R S. 
Draft 
Tue:·ThursSpm-12 
application rate for this year's freshman class was 1(> per cent higher than for the previous year, with two applicants for each open­ing. There will be 501 incoming freshmen. 
Indicating the national and inter­national character of the student body, students come to SMC from 48 states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia and more than a dozen foreign countries. 
A profile of the freshman class shows that fifty-six percent attended Catholic and other private high schools and forty-three per­cent attended public high schools. There are nine valedictorians among the freshmen. 
The median Standard Achieve­ment Test (SAT) score, verbal and mathematical combined,.is 1013 for the class of 1982. Th¢ national mean score among women last year was 876. Fifty-nine per~ent of the Saint Mary's freshmen: ranked in the top fifth of their high school graduating classes. , 

Also, 36 are alumnae daughters, 16 have alumnae aunts, five are alumnae granddaughters, two are alumnae great-granddaughters and 40 are alumnae sisters. Sixty-one of the freshmen have sisters also currently enrolled at Saint Mary's. These statistics demonstrate that almost one-third of the freshmen belong to families which tradi· tionally send their daughters to Saint Mary's College. 
Orientation continues 
by Rosemary MID• Editorial Editor 

Organization and cooperation are the reasons behind the expected success of the 1978 orientation, according to Carey Ewing, Orienta-
The orientation dance, featuring Unity, is scheduled to begin at 9 
p.m. Sunday in the concourse of the ACC. A mass will be held for transfer students 9 a.m. Sunday, followed by a breakfast at 10. 
Future events include Activities Night, planned for Sept. 11. in Stepan Center, and Carney '78, scheduled for Sept. 8. 
Although tours for freshmen and 

their parents is not a new idea, Ewing claims more people have beentakingadvantageofthemthis 
year. She attributes this to the enthusiasm of the committee and tour leaders. 
The airport shuttles were like· wise in effect before, but have been 
more  regular recently.  "We've  
had  at  least  one  or  two  vehicles  
meeting  every  plane."  Ewing  
stressed.  

The committee also spent time during the summer to mail paci ets to incoming freshmen and transfer students. The packets contained information about Notre Dame and 
the South Bend area. Ewing noted 
that a special effon was made to contact the transfer students. 
In addition to the Orientation committee. each hall is responsible for planning their own welcome. The hall committees are respon­
sible for the registration desks and inter-hall activities. Ewing explained. She also commented on the hard work of the hall commit­
tees, noting that more dorm activi­ties seem to be planned than in previous years. 
--------------------------·

I paRents: I 
I ShaR€ th€ €XP€RI€TlC€S 0~ I I colleqe 11~€ w1th youR I I son OR Oauqht€R 1 
1I susscRJB€ to the nO-smc 1I 
II  mail to  0BS€RV€R P.O. Box Q. N.D. ln. 46556  II  
I  $10 P€~ semeste~  I  
I  I  
I Name  I  
I  I  
I  .  I  
IAddress--­ 1  
I  I  
I  I  

Fri., Sat 5pm-3am i Sauth B•nd
• ~aazsas
•
• I.D. carda mu•t II• pr•••nl•d. 
~ 
SFILVFITIDN ARMY 
* 
* 
~ 
·b,lr• ••,.tor
~ apecia\ f\1~ atuclll"ts ~ returf\11\111 
! furniture.



i * -=•athi":;..i•nc••· 
~ StD s. Main St•• 
······················~·····························~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-----· ---. 

Saturday, August 26, 1978
the observer 

Who's who at Notre Dame 
Fr. Hesburgh 
.. 
, 
•.
•' •.S l't 

Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh is in 
his 27th year as head of Notre 
Dame. Four of five living alumni 
of the University have his name on 
their diplomas. , 
In a national news magazine's 
1978 polJ of influential Americans. 
he was ranked No. 2 in influence 
within the field of religion and thirci 
in education. Over the last decade. 
Hesburgh has been involved in 
national studies of race relations, 
higher education, campus unrest, 
and a volunteer armed force. 
His most recent Presidential .lp­
pointment was to the rank of 
ambassador to head the U.S. 
delegation to a 1979 United Nations 
conference on the transfer of 
technology from developed to un­
developed countries. 
Hesburgh's chief contribution on 
the national level has been in the 
area of civil rights. Appointed to 
the U.S. Commission on Civil 
Rights by President Dwight D. 
Eisenhower when the commission 
was established in 1957, he was 
named its chairman by President 
Richard M. Nixon in 1969 and 
served in that capacity until his' 
resignation at Nixon's request in 
November, 1972. Notre Dame, 
with the assisance of the Ford 
Foundation, has established on 
campus a Civil Rights Center which 
will promote the cause of human 
rights in this country and abroad. 
Since leaving the Civil Rights 
Commission, Notre Dame's presi­
dent has been very active as 
chairman of the Overseas Develop­
ment Council, a Washington-based 
private organization formed in 1969 
70 promote effective aid to under­
Jeveloped countries. He also 
traveled widely in Third and Fourth 
World areas, often on assignemtn 
from the Rockefeller Foundation, 
which he joined as a trustee in 1963 
and of which he became president 
in 1977. N D , 'd
otre arne s presa ent . was awarded the prestigious Meik-
Jejohn Award of the American 
Association of University Profes­
sors (AAUP) in 1970. In nomina­
ting Hesburgh for the award, 
members of Notre Dame's AAUP 
chapter cited his defense of faculty 
members who had taken unpopular 
political and religious positions and 
his widely publicized letter to Vice 
President Spiro T. Agnew in 1969, 
which urged a "hands-otr' policy 
for the federal government in 
regard to campus disturbances and 
concern for the larger needs of the 
national community.'' 
Two major developments at 
Notre Dame during during his 
administration were the reorgani­
zation of the University's gover· 
nance under lay control, accomp­
lished in 1967, and the introduction 
of coeducation at the undergra­
duate level in the fall of--tQJ2._ 
Father Hesburghs leadership in 
education in recent years has been 
1 
reflected in his work as president of · the International Federation of Catholic Universities, which he headed from 1963 to his resignation in 1970, and as a member of the Kerr-Carnegie Commission on the Future of Higher Education, the key national study group on higher education's problems and promise which completed its work in 1974. He was also a a member of the select committee created by Gover­nor RockefeiJer to study the future of private higher education in the State of New York. Father Res­burgh is a former president of the Association of American CoJieges and a member of the board of trustees of the American Council on Education. He ·is a former director of the Institute of Interna­tional Education, and a former trustee of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. 
Highlighting a long list of special 
[cont. on page 18] 
Dr. O'Meara 
Dr. Timothy O'Meara, Kenna professor of mathematics, was appointed to the position of provost in May. As provost he has responsibility under the President for the administration, coordina­tion, and development of all aca­demic activities and functions of the University. ' 
A member of the Notre Dame · faculty since 1962, O'Meara has twice headed the mathematics department and has served on several key University committees, including the Committee on Uni­versity Priorities, the Trustee's Faculty Affairs Committee, the Provost Review Committee and the Budget Priorities Committee. 
O'Meara received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the· 

r----------------------------­
University of Cape Town, South . Africa. He received his doctorate in mathematics from Princeton as a 
member of the faculty. 
Since 1963, he has received nine National Science Foundation grants supporting his research in number theory, linear groups and quadratic forms. He has published many articles in American and European professional journals, and three books on the graduate level. His 


research is especially noted for a major breakthrough in an area of moder algebra known as the iso· morphism theory of the linear groups. 
O'Meara has asked that his term as provost be limited to four years ·so that he may return to full time teaching and resea~ch. 
Fr. Joyce 

Fr. Edmund P. Joyce has been serving as executive vice president and treasurer of the University since 1952. In addition to his overall executive duties, he is Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and the Univer­sity Building Committee. 
Joyce majored in accounting at Notre Dame, receiving his bachelor of Science degree (magna cum laude) in 1937. He became a certified public accountant in 1939. He was ordained to the priesthood ten years later in Sacred Heart 
, Church on the University campus. After ordination Joyce was
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
named assistant vice president for business affairs at Notre Dame. He became acting vice president in the spring of 1950. After a year of advanced study at Oxford Univer-
Sl.OO off! 
ANY ALBUM OR TAPE ! 
sity, England, Joyce returned to Notre Dame, taking up his former duties until he was elevated to the post of executive vice president. 
Joyce has been a trustee of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, is a trustee of Junior Achievement and a director of the Institute for Educational Manage­ment at Cambridge, Mass. 
He was appointed by President Eisenhower as a member of the Board of Visitors of the United States Naval Academy and was awardt.:d the Exceptional Service Medal by the Air Force. He holds honorary doctorates from the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, MN, and Belmont Abbey College in Belmont, NC. 
Fr. Wolvlear 

Fr. John L. Van Wolvlear, a 1945 alumnus of Notre Dame, was appointed in May to succeed Bro. Just Paczesny as Vice President for Student Affairs. As such. Van Wolvlear has direct respon~ibility for all matters pertaining to the religious. disciplinary. social, recreational and physkal welfare of undergraduate students. 
After his ordinatil'" at Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church in 1949, Van Wolvlear taught at Holy Cross Seminary until 1954. He was also rector of Cavanaugh Hall. 
From  1955  to  1965  he  was  
assistant  superior  and  assistant  
principal  at  Notre  Dame  high  

schO<'I in Niles, IL. In 1965 he was assigned to the University of Portland, where he served in a variety of positions until 1976. 
Prof. Emil T. Hoffman 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman has served as dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Program at Notre Dame since 1971. He also teaches the Freshman general chemistry course, and has developed innova· tive instructional methods and techniques in teaching some 1,600 students a year. 
Since assuming the duties of dean, Hofman has supervised a revision of the first-year curriculum which has provided more educa­tional flexibility in choosing major courses of study and place new empahsis on a counseling program which has lowered University attri­tion rates. 

Hofman received his master's and doctoral degrees from Notre Dame after taking his baccalaure­ate at Miami University in Florida. He joined the University faculty in 1953, and ten years later received the first Thomas J. Madden Award for excellence in the teaching of freshmen. He received the Presi­dent's Citation in 1977. 


Hofman has been closely asso­ciated with the National Science Foundation teacher-training pro­grams and with the Northern Indiana Regional Science Fairs. He directed the International Science and Engineering Fair at Notre Dame in 1974. He has also served as assistant chairman of the Department of Chemistry and assistant Dean of the College of Science. 
Dean Roemer 


James A. Roemer was named Dean of Students at Notre Dame in July, 1975. He had served as University counsel since 1972. 
Roemer. a South Bend native, earned his B.A. in economics from Notre Dame in 195I, and graduated from the Notre Dame law school in 1955. He has held legal positions in the St. Joseph's County Prosecu· tor's office, the South Bend Rede­velopment Department and the St . Joseph County Board of Zoning Appeals. He has also held a part-time position as city attorney of South Bend. 
Roemer is a member of the Urba_n League, the United Negro College Fund and Neighborhood Study Help, Inc. 
with this coupon Umit one coupon per customer  lttnta  
now thru Sept. 15  I  N®mm£ li\:!11£  
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST RECORD AND TAPE SELECTION  ~IDJtlifNID UNJ®N  
AND  m£111mJ~1fmAm®m  
CONCERT TICKET HEADQUARTERS  
locations:  ~t. ~tpt. 2 1978  
1_1)_o_rt_!l_ 50970 U.S. 31 .. North South Bend  lD:DD to 12:DD pm 
; 1  3 miles north of Notre Dame 277-4242 Open 10-10 7 days a week  1Kttnan Jlall bastmtnt  
I  

~~~~--4626 Western Ave. Belleville Plaza, I $35/ur small rtfrigtratnr 
across from Washington H.S. 287-7272 l , $55/ur largt rtfrigtrator 
I1 Open 12-9 Mon-Fri, 10-8 Sat. and 1 
J 12-6 Sun. I , $10 beposit on all rtfrigtratnrs 
·------------------------------~ 




Saturday, August 26, 1978 

SALE HOURS: 
WEEKDAYS 10 'TIL 9 PM SATURDAY 10 'TIL 5:30 SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 
••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
IDEAL FOR • . . 

PERFECT FOR • . 
TRAILERS 

DORMITORIES 
COnAGES 

APARTMENTS 
CLOSETS 

STUDY ROOMS 
STATION WAGONS 

ANY ROOMS 
*1\ PI\NOEMOMIUM OF VAlUE! *A REVELRY OF SAVING! 
Colossal Lees! Titanic Cobin Crofts! The ware­house of these giants were glutted with remnants, loaded with roll-ends, pieces accumulated from their greatest season ever, In such profusion as ta throttle their operations near-completely. They had to sell and sell quickly -and that's when "CARPfl-WAY" stepped ln. With a dramatic, hard cash wipe-out offer, we bought every single piece we could at bare rock-bottom-and now we pall 
the savings on to yaul 
PERFECT FOR • • • 
BEDROOMS 
BATHROOMS 
KITCHENS 
BASEMENTS 
BUY NOW FOR ••• FLOORS WALLS STEPS DECKS 
Sorry No lay-a-way, No hold orders, No pha,. or mall o.-den, All ·~ ta prior sale, All priclnv Ia on ccnh ~ CarT)' baala, AH dlrnenalona ate mln'"-nt. 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 PIECES! 
* PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
· Shag, twist, plush, loop, tweed, cut/uncut, milti-levelfigured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these values on the spot 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills
-
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
Moderate Charge 
INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 

OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTED 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Gold  lworJ  Cormel  Jonquil  Orienhll  
"""  Nugg•t  Apricot  Sovterne  l'lfteo,.le  
Aquo limo Jade Coin  '-'ddlo lioquo Alalea c.,;,.  A•ocodo OrouMn I aha.­l'aprlka  Aboln..,• Ambervlow llu•bell loybol  Oordenle ......;.._. ,_...... latftoG­ 
011¥e  Copper  s......  Hyacinth  Cloudy Jocle  
Gr-n  Nougat  Jonquil  HoliofYapo  Jrottod coc­ 
•••e•  Jlufl>lo  Honor  Co"•• Rod  Jreuo lluo  
Corm•l  Allee  lron1e  Ivy Gr-n  Groclon Oil••  
lron•e  Autumn  Magenta  Moncterln  .........,. S.n4  
Whit• ..,..,.  Rogal Mor•n•  Saddle litque  Ocean Green Turquo:le  Muffin hi.. Whi.. Orape  

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY STORE 
......""" FINANCING 
• AVAILABLE 
5076C l!. ~ No South Bend, Indiana ... next door to Sandock's Furniture 
~-~~---~~--­
..._-.,. ­
--.---.-­


• 

Introducing-St. Mary's Administration and staff 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's EciJtor 
Saint Mary's campus was not completely deserted this summer as students returned home 
Administration and staff mem­bers remained on campus planning for the 1978-79 school year. Among these were the five senior officers of the college, plus four others of special interest to stu­dents. 
John M. Duggan has served as president of the college since 1975. Formerly president of Vassar College, Duggan is responsible for the entire college and must report to Saint Mary's trustees, the Board of Regents. 
William A. Hickey is vice presi­dent of academic affairs and dean of the faculty. He oversees the academic life at Saint Mary's. Academic administrators and fa-cult}' members ultimately report to him. 
A member of Saint Mary's college community since 1959, Hickey was associated with the 1976. 
Assitant to the presideqt for 
college relations is Brian R~gan. 
Regan came to Saint Mary's in 
1975 to be responsible for all 
college publications, public rela­
tions and fund-raising activities. 
Kathleen Rice joined the college administration in 1976 as dean of student affairs. Rice oversees housing, campus ministry, counsel­ing health services, financial aid, career development, sports, stu­dent activities and all other stu­dent related services offered at s~~nt Mary's. 
The other four administrators of special interst to students include: Mary Ellen Klein, freshman dean; Mary Laverty, director of student activities; and Theresa Marcy and Sr. Francesca Kennedy, co­assistants to the vice president of academic affairs. 
Klein came to Saint Mary)s in 1977 as freshman academic coun­selor. Last spring she took ful lcharge of the freshman office and will continue to oversee the aca­demic affairs of freshmen this year. 
biology department until 1972. He · Laverty became director of stud was then appointed vice president student adivities last fall after of academic affairs. During the spending one year as Regina Hall t974-7S school year he served as director. Her responsibilities in­acting president of the college. In elude advising student govern­the fall of 1975 he assumeu his ment; coordinating all hall, -class present position. and all-campus activities; ad,vising 
The man in charge of Saint· the yearbook; coordinating faculty­Mary's fiscal affairs is Jason D. student activities; and coordinating Lindower, controller.· He is the volunteer services. college's treasurer, overseeing Marcy and Kennedy jointly han­day-to~day operations such as dle the academic concerns of maintenance and security. . upperclassmen as well as those of 
Lindower was associated with special students and transfer stu­Saint Mary's several years ago as dents. They counsel students on head of fiscal affairs. He left the course and Major choices and field college for a few years, returning in student academic complaints. 
• 

l A$ . ....,ft
tlW$t .... 

Construction on the Engineering Building proceeded throughout the summer. The building is scheduled to be completed in 1980. [Photo by Doug Christian] 
.__,_______________________________________ ! 




%The Observer 


-------, 
j 
, 
• ......;:, ·~ 
-


T_HERESA MARCY 

~~~~~~~~~~oc~~~~~~~~~~~ 
baild... c.hapeQ chom... _1a00 ba"d...
I 
1 ,,! chonug ...gQee cQub ...onchegtfta ... 
.I 
chonaQe. ~ .ittgtltumetttaQ ettgembQeg ... coQQegium ...phiVate ittgtltuction 
{p1r illf,o:tmation nbout the band pltogltlUl\, eontoct bot-~d oMir.e H1 wo.cltiJtgton ho.QQ 
f.!J,1 Hlf{ttmotif1i' obout olrchegtfto co.QQ 6422 
~~ on COI'rlptm toda~ on page two fpll audttlon tlmeg 
Academic Affairs at SMC gains two assistants ... 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 

Theresa Marcy, part-time mem­ber of the Saint Mary's government department for the past four years, and Sr. Francesca Kennedy, college registrar for the past six years, will jointly replace Gail Mandell as assistant to the vice president for academic affairs. 
Mandell has elected to return to full-time teaching in the humanistic studies department. She had served as assistant for academic affairs for six years. 
Marcy will assume responsibility for counseling upperclassmen on academic matters and will act as advisor to sophomores and juniors who have not yet chosen a major. 
Kennedy will also do some counseling, butwill devote most of her time to those matters that directly relate to her registrar position. For example, she will keep tabs on students' core requirements and compile lists of those eligible for certain awards. Kennedy will also sit on the 
Academic Standards and Curricu­lum Study committees. 
The Registrar's Office and Aca­demic Office have always worked closely. accordin to Kennedy. Thus she termed her new responsibilities the "logical extension of what I had been doing." 
Marcy will continue to teach six hours of government. She com­mented that she is looking forward to her new responsibilities, ''but then it hasn't gotten complicated yet." 
Neither Marcy nor Kennedy anticipates any major changes in procedure or policy. 
''Gail Mandell always made this a welcoming and friendly office and we want to keep it that way," Marl:y said. 
Marcy received her bachelor's degree in history from Saint Mary's After graduation she went to France on a Fullbright Scholarship to study French politics. 
Kennedy holds a bachelor's degree in English from Dunbarton College, a master's in clinical psychology from Catholic Univer-· sity and a doctorate in administra­tion from Columbia Teachers' College. 
...While Student Affairs Office_ creates Director of Residence post 
by Jean Powley Sabd Mary's Editor 

Saint Mary's Student Affairs Office has been growing and adding new services for several years. And this year a director of residence life is the office's addi­tion. 
Sr. Karol Jackowski,. LeMans Hall director, has been chosen to fill tl'le newly-created post. 
"It will be my job to make sure that whatever is done in the residence halls concerning stu­dents is done fairly and consis­tently. Last year tnere was no consistency between halls and the way in which rules were enforced,'' she explained. 
''We got a lot of negative feedback on this from students, so my position was created to ensure quality control in the residence halls," Jackowski continued. 
Her responsibilities will include training resident advisors (RAs) and overseeing the whole RA program; evaluating residence hall policies; clarifying existing policies and formulting new policies. 
She will also work closely with Minnie Owens, director of housing, on pro~.:edures and problems with 
• 
the mechanics of housing. 
On the job since the e!Jd of May, Jackowski explained that· she has been working on the RA orientation program and has also been re· 
evaluating the sign-out p-olicy for freshmen and its effectiveness. 
''That is the only . remaining policy which does not fit in with our overall policy of letting students be responsible for themselves," she said. 
A native of East Chicago, Ind., Jackowski has been a member of the Saint Mary's community since 1973. She spent four years as a campus ministry staff member before becoming LeMans Hall director last fall. 
Before coming the the college she spent three years as a counse­lor ::>.t St. Joseph High School in Sout~1 Bend and several .years as dean of students at a high school in Hammond, Ind. 
She graduated from Saint Mary's with a degree in social work and did her graduate work at Notre Dame. 
Saturday, Auaust 26, 1978 the obsener .!~ •'' 7 



ND Student Government explained 
by Barb Langhenry handles the finances and disburses handled by the appropriate person. 
Executive Editor student government funds. The The Judicial Board provides 
The Treasurer, Beau Mason, assistance to students accused of 
Although the character of the handles the finances and disburses violating rules and regulations, and Notre Dame student government student government funds. The works to clarify the rules and changes from · year to year, the Treasurer is nominated by the regulations. purpose remains essentially the outgoing Treasurer and is The Hall Presidents' Council, same. ''We are here to represent approved by the outgoing board of probably the most representative 
the students' views," Andy Mc­commissioners. body on campus, is comprised of all 
Kenna, student body president, The SBP and the SBVP choose a the hall presidents. Chuck Del-explained. cabinet soon after they are elected. Grande, former Fisher Hall presi-Student government at Notre The cabinet consists of coordina­dent, is the chairman. The counci Dame has many parts and appears tors for various areas. The areas "1 t kl t0 d"
counct mee s wee Y tscuss 
to be a tiny bureaucracy. The concentrated on vary with each pertinent hall issues. The HPC Student Body President (SBP), administration. This year some of 
sponsors and coordinates activities Vice-President (SBVP), their the areas are academics, career between halls and on campus such cabinet, the Board of Commis­development, ND-SMC relations, as Mardi Gras, as well as concern­sioners, the judicial Council, the student housing, interracial con­ing itself with campus issues. Hall Presidents' Council, Ombuds­cerns, public relations, campus Ombudsman is a service of man, the Campus Life Council, the security~ social concerns, social student government. The Om­Off Campus Commission, the life, and third world problems. budsman, which is directed by Tom Council of Communication, hall The Board of Commissioners, Lux, maintains a phone service governments and class officers are another facet of student govern­whereby anyone can call for ·infor­all aspects of student government. ment, determines the fiscal policies mation pertaining to the campus Overcrowding the continued de­of student government. The SBP, and events relative to the campus. velopment of hall social space, the SBVP, Treasurer, Student Union They also coordinate SBP/SBVP renovation of LaFortune and the Director, Hall Presidents' Council elections and the class elections. plans for a new hall were high­Chairman and Judicial Coorindator The Campus Life Council created lighted by McKenna as being serve on this board which ties last year, is a group of rectors, among some of the major issues for together and monitors the student faculty members, hall vice-presi­this year. government activities. dents, and representatives from With regard to the problem of The Judicial Council is also various campus organizations. The overcrowding, McKenna stated under the auspices of student council deals with problems pecu­that he would like to evaluate the government. The council is com­liar to students on campus. 
situation and seek some type of posed of the Judicial Board Chair­The Council of Communlcadon is committment from the University men from each hall and the Judicial a newly created body and is assuring that it will not happen Coordinator, Jayne Rizzo. Offen­composed of representatives from again. ces are categorized as hall offences each hall. The Council has yet to 
The treasurer, Beau Mason, or university offences and then meet. 



President Gail Darragh and Maureen Carden 
NEED A CHEST OF DRAWERS? 
BUY IT UNPAINTED ••• SAVE 1/2 OR MOREl 
BIG SAVINGS ON ROOM SIZE RUGS!! 
Complete Seledion of NEWEST STYLES AND COLORSI 
JUST ABOUT EVDYTHING IN BOOKCASES, CHUTS, IECOID CAIINITS, END TAMES • • • YOU NAME m "SERVING NOTRE DAME SINCE 1948" 
WILLIAM'S 
RUGS and UNPAINTED FURNITURE AND NOTII DAME STUDENT UNION 
II&~ 
259-1243 211-2111

GJIR~JIII 
-------·-­
The off-campus students are not board. neglected as they have the Off. Each class has officers. The Campu Commision which is co-president, vice-president, secre­ordinated by John Fitzpatrick, a tary and treasurer are elected as a member of the student government single ticket and they select an cabinet. Administrators and advisory council which is usually various student representatives composed of hall representatives. compose the commission. The class officers functin is mostly 
Each hall also has its own a social capacity.The freshmen do not have offi­governing body. The operation cers though and are governed by an varies from hall to hall, although advisory council with a chairman most hall have officers, various elected from the counet"l. Hall
commissioners and section leaders. 
representatives are usually chosen ...,.Eac-·h-h.al•l•a•ls•o-h•s•i•ts-ow-n•J··u•d•i•ci•a•l-blliy-th•e-hai_I.._re.s•i•d•e•n·t·----..... 
4 
STUDENT UNION DIRECTOR BILL ROCHE 

SMC government provides activities 
by Jean Powley Jones, a senior from Illinois. She is 
Saint Mary'• Editor responsible for coordinating social activities both on and off campus ­ex. Oktoberfest Mardi Gras, An 
Student government at Saint Tostal, Christmas bazaar. Mary's has become a very active As sports commissioner, Leslie organization, coordinating the vast Murdock. a senior from Illinois, majority of student activities and will be in charge of initiating and providing a lot of student input into organizing sports activities for th~ policy formulation and change by college. the college administration. Eahancing the religious aspect of 
President of the student body is the college and making students Gail Darragh, a senior from Ohio. aware of available religious activi­She chairs the Board of Governance ties is the responsibility of Mar­and the Student Assembly, is a garet O'Keefe, a junior from member of every student board, Illinois, as spiritual commissioner. and is the student body's oficial Pia Trigiani, a junior from Vir­representative to college com­ginia, will act as public relations mittees and, in general, is respon­commissioner. She must inform sible for the effective operation of students about campus activities. student government. . publicize events and coordinate 
Maureen Carden, a senior from publication of the student govern­New York • is vice president of ment newsletter. academic affairs. She is respon­Noreen Bracken, a junior from 
sible for all areas concerning New Jersey, and Carl Trousdale, a academic life. She chairs the junior from New York, are co­Student Academic Council and is elections commissioners. They are voting member of several college responsible for implementing the committees. elections process, making wure 
Julie Pope, a junior from Florida sure that campaign rules are is vice president of student affairs. followed. and encouraging stu­She is responsible for all areas dents to vote. affecting student co-curricular life. Ellen Neuhoff, a junior from 
She advises the Hall President's Texas, is secretary. She is student Council and the Freshman Council government's official correspon­and works closely with the social dent and takes the minutes of all 
commissioner. · Board of Governance meetings. Marianne Frost, a senior from Sheila Wixted, a junior from 
Illinios, is co-ex commissioner. Michigan, is treasurer. She keeps She is responsible for improving all financial records and handles relations with Notre Dame through student government funds. 
combined activities. She wil over­The responsibilities of class see the shuttle, co-ex ticket distri­officers are to unite the class and bution and other joint activities. provide activities in all areas of 
Judicial commissioner is Maggie college life--academics, social Brudges, a senior from Virginia. and spiritual. She implements the selection and The freshman class is governed training of judicial board members by a Freshman Council which has and makes· sure that the sanctions one representative for every • 35 passed by the board are consistent students. Representatives will be with the Saint Mary's judicial elected in mid-October and a 
system philosophy. Mary Mul­chairman will then by chosen by 
laney, a junior from Michigan, is council members. development commissioner. She Hall officers coordinate activites must make students aware of the for their halls. The president acta effect and importance of their as the hall's official repre.entalive participation in the growth and and sits on the Hall Presidents' development of the college finan­Council. . cially and otherwise. Sh,. ~-~sun Student Assembly is the main the ·annual phone-a-thon &bd the teaislative branch ofStudeDtpea•United Way drive. 
llllleDt. It consists of ODe repr *'• 
Social Commissioner is Christy tative per 100 students ... 
----. ------~-------­
--------~--------------------------------------~

-


: 
I 
Saturday, Auauat a, 1111
I 

' 
~.t 
I 
:! 
\ 
' 
:, 
SAIIT NARY'S COLLEGE CAMPUS REGULATIOIS 
. 
l978CHARISMATIC RENEWAL CONFERENCE 
1. 
Please observe no parking signs. It is imp~t that emergency vehicles bave access to all campus buildings. Thus. any vehicle blocking a road or in a no parking zone will be towed aw~ at the owner's expense. Individuals vith pnysical disabilities should contact a Security Officer tor special parking arrangements. 

2. 
On Friday, parking will be permitted only in areas indicated by the Secuirty Officers. On Saturday, parking will also be permitted in the entire main parkin& lot vest or LeM&ns. 

3. 
Please observe the no smoking signs posted in all auditorium. and chapela. Food and drink are not .to be consumed in the chapels, auditoriums or meeting rooms. Vendinl machine areas are available in each dormitory. 

4. 
Auditoriwu vill be opened approximately one-half hour prior to the tillle acbeduled tor the prosram. Admittance will be restricted to the seats available. 

5. 
Between the hou.ra of 11:00 pm and 7:00 am. the follovin& entrance• to the dormitories should be uaed: 



·McCancUesa Hall•••••••••Ea.st by Main Parking Lot) Regina Kall ••••• : •••Center All others vill be locked between the above hcura. 
6. Livinc in tents, trailers and motor homes vill not be permitted on the Saint Mary'a c..pua. Self-contained units m•y park on the .campus. Picnicking vill no be per.=itted on the campus since ve do nut have adequate faciliti~a. There ve eeveral parks nearby. Check vith the Security Guard for directions. 
1. There is no space for aleepin« b&«s on the Saint Mary's campua. The only exception 1a ( for ·properly rqistered children aharinc a room vith their parents. 
\ ! ) 8. Ch114ren under 14 are not to be left unattended in any dormitory or elaaaroom buildinc. I Children found without aupervialon will be taken to the 54cur1ty Otrice. 
I (.­
\ 
I I 9. Telepbone calls while on the campaa maat be made by dialiQI 9 for outside and 0 for the Lone Di~~ance Operator -.either COLLECT cr CREDIT CARD.
I 
10. Food Service: ·Persons with hu~sing at ~aint Mary's will have all their meals at Saint
I Mary'a •••extra meal tickets may be purchased at the Centre for Continuing Education on the lotre Daae c..pua. ·
( 
.. 
t 
•5 11. Key Return: The-re vill be a key deposit or $2.00 payable upon room assi«nments and re­; funded upon the return or the key vhen you jepart. 
.
• .-i 12. Book Store: The Book Store located in the :ever-level of LeMans Hall will be open Friday ONLY. The hours wil~ be 9:00am until 3:00 pm. 
13. 
Campus Shuttle Buses: Shuttle buses will circle the Saint Mary's campus and the Notr~ Dame campus, and will stop at clearly marked bus stops approximately every fifteen minutes. Buses will not run after midnight on Friday and Saturday on the campuses. Special buses that will run directly to Saint Mary's will operate immediately after the closing General Session e~ch dRy from the Library's driveway. 

14. 
The chapels in LeMans and Holy Cross on the Saint Mary's campus may be used for personal prayer during the Conference. 

15. 
Conference Headquarters: A central information desk is located in the lobby of LeMans Hall. Telephone number 5788. 

16. 
An information desk is available in each hall lobby. Please refer all questions to this desk and the Hall Director. 

17. 
A Charismatic information center will be set up on Miller Arcade, adjoining O'Laughlin Auditorium. 


EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS: 
Seew-ity 4313 Health Service• 4910 ( 24 hours ) Conference Hdqta. 5788 (General Information) 
••• ,, ••_ .._of' __... 

_. f • r9~,• .......,,;'_•• ,~. •.• 
Saturday, Auauat 26, 1m 
pf .l'ff 1 .t: ..t : . • ·r · .. ,, 




photos by doug christian 
\ 
-I 




----··-··-··... -----:---· -.--~--------------~ -~---·--. 



----Solving Problems 
u .. 
' r
\ i 
i \ I ( \ ' After he was appointed Director of University 
I I 
Housing last May, Edmund Price stated that he "W9Uid 
·. I 
\ i like to spend more time talking with students about
' 
'· ~ ;I their problems.'' Overaowded dormitory rooms 
; I shOuld give Price ar\l)le opportunity to fulfill his wish. 
·. \ It is possible that Price aeated his own problems. Overcrowding might have been prevented, or at least alleviated, if Price had listened to his own statements. 
For instance, after receiving 4417 housing contracts ­183 more than the number of residents last year -Price said he did not see any reason for concern about student housing for this school year. While Price admitted that rooms had to be found for another 28 women residents, he dalmed his problem had already been solved. At the same-time, Price hinted the possibility of overcrowding in men's dormitories existed. 
The reason Price gave for this year's overaowding is the increased number of students who wished to remain on campus after freshman year. However, in an Observer interview on May 5, Price pointed out this national trend and related it to the problem at Notre 
Dame. 
It seems that Price knew overcrowding was more than a remote possibllty; yet the only action he took was to Investigate the housing facilities at Holy Cross Hall and assure students ''special temporary housing will be provided if necessary.'' He did not mention that temporary housing would include the study halls of Grace and Flanner or the dining-study areas of Lewis. 
Now that "if necessary " has become a reality, perhaps Price can find time to talk to the students about the problems he foresaw but did not correct. 

Appreciation Due 
In the past, freshmen have been heartily welcomed to the Notre Da~ -Saint Mar(s community, and iustifiably so. Now, for the first time the Notre Dame Student Union has taken steps to welcome all students back to campus. 
The innovation of Welcome Week will not only show freshmen the social side of Notre Dame -Saint Mary's life, but will provide an excellent opportunity for upperclassmen to have one last fling before the academic rush. 

Welcome Week, as explained in the SU letter sent to all students, w:ll provide the chance to "get out, meet people, and really en joy yourself." It is an answer to those students who complain about lack of activity until the start of football season. Movies, dances, concerts, and the Polish wedding will be a refreshing change from the typical "mixer'' planned mainly to entertain freshmen. 
Perhaps the most Important asped of Welcome 
i 
l Week is that its success depends upon student 
I' 
i l 
, I involvement. The work Student Union accomplished over summer "vacation" may well be lost If the rest of the ND-SMC community remains apathetic. 
The NO Student Union deserves appreciation. Show your support and do yourself a favor by enfoylng Welcome Week! 
&litorial Policy 
'lbe Observer eaeouna• eommeats from Ita readers; however we ak that dda policy be followed. 
AD letten and colamal IUbmlttecl fOl' pablleadoa must be typed. The name, llddreu and pboae aamber of the author mut be ladaded. Nam• wdl DOt be withheld anleu ~nfDrleat reMOII Ia preeeated for dolaa 10. 
The Observer n~Mrv• the . rlaht to edit all eubmlaalou fOI' pmmatleal erron, leaath, aad Ubeloas or alanderoaa ltatemeata. Dlataateful or opealy prejudiced letten wOI not be prlllted. 
Open thaak-yoa leUem wOI be .eeepted oaly If tbe author has no other mema of cootaedag the IDdlvlcluals, or if the topic Ia of laterat to tbe commaalty. 
Lettem may be maJied to 1be Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556; or left at the Observer office, LaFortune Student Center, durlna busJneu boW'8. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!~~~~~~!!!~~ nounced, depending upon the so­
~~ cial environment to which you are 
~ ERVER =:~:dyou~~~~;:.;e~:rg;a:
0 B
~ shock. But if you're expecting a replica of National Lampoon's 
~~:oi~~~~e, you'll no doubt be 
After a.while you should begin to feel at home and you might a.'lk
EDITORIA L Syourself, "How can I make mos~ of 



The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving the P.O. Box Q notre dame and saint mary's community Notre Dame, ln. 
The Observer is published bv students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institu.tion. Th~ n~ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possrble. Edrtorrals represent the opinion of a majority ~f the Edito~ial Board. Commentaries and letters are the vrews of therr authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. h encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News [ ditor Diane Wilson News E:ditor Ray O'Brif'n Sports [ditor Bryan Gruley Feature·, Editor Doug Christian Photo Editor Mardi Nevin Productian Manager John Tucker Busines<: Manager Bob Rudy Advert1smg Manager 
Saturday, August 26, 1978 



Advice to Anxious Faces 
Any students who have returned 
to this campus early have seen your 
faces--the anxious faces of fresh­
men and their parents. Where do 
we go? What do we do? Is this what 
college is really like? 

Relax. First of all, you must 
remember that everyone was a freshman once, although for some of us that seems like a long time ago. Second, the transition from high school to college, at least at Notre Dame, is not as difficult as one might think. Academically, you have fine cr~dentials; but even if you falter, there is the timely assistance of Dean Emil T. Hofman and his capable s~ff at the Freshman Year of Studies to help pull you though. Socially , the changes may be a bit more pro­
are almost as many different answers to this question as there are people, three basic repsonses are obvious. Some will say constant study is the best use of college time because good grades insure a good future. Others will say constant partying is better; as long as your grades keep you in school you'11 have a good time. Still others will argue for total involve~ent in campus organi­zations and activities since this is one occasion when you can make significant contributions to your community. Obviously all three of these responses are extreme. But by combining thf!se three extreme views to suit your personal goals you should be able to blaze your own path. · • 
The primary reason for attending any university is to learn. Whether this desire to learn is motivated by a theoretical desire to become an educated man or by the more practical desire to get a good job will have a great deal of bearing upon what you may decide to major in, but it does not necessarily preclude certain arrangements, social, academic, and extracurri­learning often occurs outside the classroom. You learn shooting the bull with your roommates, trying to pick up an attractive member of the opposite sex, building a stage for a play, or even assisting in the publication of a newspaper. 

But learning outside the class­room can be very different from learning in the classroom. Some classes only require a passive student, one who takes good notes and feeds those notes back to the professor on exams. Learning outside the classroom requires an active student, one who is willing to try new things, meet new people, and see new places. 
You want to know how to get the most from your college years: its simple -be an active student, active in the classroom and active in those activities outside the classroom which suit your goals. It's all based on the simple adage that those who get the most are also the ones who give the most. 
We at the Observer bid the class of '82 welcome and we hope that you make the most of your oollege. years. Work hard, play hard, and learn at Notre Dame. 
lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_iiiiiiiii_iiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii&iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii• my college years?" Although there cular activity. This is because 
• 
-... 
\ ._·. 

Saturday, Auaust 26, 1978 the observer 11 
• ': c·. 


marcy mcbrien 
[Editor's Note: This article first appeared used; and once a week, everbody gets "Slam-Dunk" has no worries; she's in The Observer last May. It is reprinted together at Lafortune for a hot game of gin booked for five years' worth of Ovaltine now for the benefit of freshmen who may 
rummy. R.O.S.S. has some wild times; commercials after she graduates. She be wondering about their strange new they had a chugging contest last weekend. rooms with her manager, Kate Reiner. friends. The article is entirely fictitious-­It didn't last too long; they were all on the Kate's definitely one of the more promis­floor after about two hours. I guess they ing business majors in the country. Half
any resemblances to persons living or dead just can't hold their Dr. Pepper. the section owes her money--at seven per
are purely coincidental.) 
... Don't look now--but you see that cent interest. Kate owns so much stock backpack on two legs shuffling down the that the Wall Street Journal checks with
Watch out for the suitcases on your way hall? She lives in room 575, when she lives her before they publish the Dow Jones-. in. The fern? Oh, that's Fred--he belo~gs here at all; that's Mortalia Snerd, our Industrial Average. She's had only oneto Madeleine. She's watered him--I cutthroat-in-residence. Like I said, we real financial flop, and that was when shewonder what the occasion is. You've never don't see much of Mortalia around here, invested our hall treasury in a horse racebeen up here before? I'll have to show except on weekends, when she comes down in Saratoga over spring break. We you around then. 5-East is kind of an home from the library to do her laundry. almost didn't get her to come down fromunusual section, I guess. I've gotten used She likes to measure dipole moments in herto it. That's my room, 571. 'Scuse me a spare time. Guys? --well, no, but I
second while I see if my roommate's in. 
understand that she did have anunrequited Yeah--she hasn't moved. I'd introduce passion for an I.B.M. machine once. 
you, but I think she might be asleep. It's 
That's her roommate boogying in fromkind of hard to tell sometimes. Her name dinner now; Jess Richards, better knownis Maybelle Furdge--maybe you've heard as the "Disco Kid". Jess is the onlyof her. She came in first in the National person I know who can Pretzel with herself. 
Sloth-Offs last year. She's real easy to get We had a little accident at our last section along with; needs to be dusted once or party;she "got down" just a little too fartwice a week, but that's about it--the 
and dislocated some guy's shoulder. Thegrafitti on the ceiling? Yeah, we think it room next door belongs to Blown-Awaylends character to the place. I can't take Koswicki, affectionately referred to as B.A.
credit for it though. If I remember right, If B.A.'s room ever burned down, theScreeks McCabe did it during our last whole campus would be high for three 
days. Buy it?--heck, she grows it. She's think the Observer covered it. That's her got a couple of specimens the size of palm room across the hall; the one done in late trees in there. B.A. is capable of just about Fruit-of-the-Loom. Well, I'm not sure if anything--under the right conditions. As I she washed them first. I think she was understand · it, she and Screeks are afraid of blurring the phone numbers. She planning to abduct this year's Mr. Campus was going to take Father Hesburgh to the and barricade thems~lves in the infirmary Shmoowis Hall formal, but it didn't work untH their demands are met--three year's out. I think he might have been busy that tuition is all they're going for. That's weekend. Screeks has the only single in B.A.'s roommate, Lavinia Earswingle. the hall; her roommate found out about her Lavinia's feet haven't been on speaking shrunken head collection and moved to the terms with the ground for a month now; rec room. Well, yes, it is a little noisy she's got a monstrous crush on some guy in down there, but then she gets to food sales Fisher. We first got the idea that she before anyone else. might be in love when she started spending 
Oh, my God--Rana Turnhed's got half her waking hours sitting in front of the another guy. Rana's sort of the section Rock with a pair of binoculars. She's sent Casanova. How many? I don't know; we him Valentine's Day carnations, Gentle lost count after the first week. I can tell Thursday daisies, Groundhog's Day cards; you this much, though; that girl's had more had him pied, serenaded and tucked in, but the roof of the library in one piece, but
dates than Zahm has cockroaches. She's she has yet to talk to him. She's written 
Screeks had the brilliant idea of sending
got what is probably the most comprehen­him some three hundred and seventy-eight 
her an estimate for her funeral. Kate is
sive little black book on campus; when they love letters, none of which will ever be 
pretty much back to normal now; last I
were making up the phone directories for mailed. I believe B.A. is using them for 
heard, she was trying to buy Mountthe Towers, they made her chief consul­rolling papers. 
Rushmor~ so that she could turn Abraham
tant. That's her roommate, Nell Andrews; That room on the left used to belong to 
Lincoln's nose into a ski resort.
I think she's on her way to the library R. J. Twidge, philo major and noted 
Well, that's about it. You should really 
again. Nell has to spend a lot of time at th~ space-case. R.J.'s not with us any more, 
come to our end-of-the-year party next
library these days. She's president of an sad to say. She was contemplating the 
Friday.

organization kncwn as R.O.S.S.--stands for absurdity of existence in the middle of Screeks and Captain Sarah are 
collaborating on something they callhappy hour; that's her signature there, Roommates Of Studs and Studettes. If Juniper Road one Friday afternoon when Bazooka punch; one glass and you get aright under the Mona Lisa done in purple you're knO\In solely as your roommate's she happened to walk into a moving 
urn roommate possibly
crayon. Screeks is something of a legend roommate, then your're eligible to join. Volkswagen. I heard that there's an recoil. My may be 
there; we're going to lay her across somearound here--1 mean, DilJon is a monastery There are lots of advantages to belonging with her ashes in it on the seventh floor of chairs and use her for a coat rack. Well, I k 
by comparison. She carried on a one­to R.O.S.S.; you get your own cot at Stepan the library. Our R.A.'s one door over. You know you have to get moving; mind youwomanjock raid last semester. No, I don't Center, in case your room's being -urn -may have heard of her; Mother Turns is the don't step on Fred's fronds on your wayonly R.A. on campus who knits mittens for out. Catch you later •• ,her section. She's really sweet; I just wish she wouldn't make us line up in the hall every night so she can see whether we washed behind the ears. I shouldn't complain, I guess, but castor oil three
•.•.' .,,. ., times a week is a bit much. Screeks has been having a really hard time with Mother Turns; this'tl be the third time this week that she's had her mouth washed out with soap. The room next door belongs to Fierce Felicia, 5th floor's answer to Atilla the Hun. She got into so many fights at Kubiak's that they finally hired her as a 
··.'.

bouncer. Felicia's going in for the Keg -..:.:. 
• I '\, Toss this year; according to rumor, she
...
. .

., wants to break the record throwing Ross ­Browner instead of the keg. Her room's
.

-~ kind of a mess today; I see Captain Sarah's 
~) .' 

:.. .'-'· \I I been cleaning her rifles again. The 
'

,.. Captain is one of NO's more enthusiastic .•, I f ROTCs; she's the only girl on campus with 
~ 
\ .._ I • 

a brush cut. Captain Sarah's been feeling 
.' ..

' '.v,.,;., ' kind of low lately; sh~ was camped out on 
,~_ 

...... 
the Circle for three days, waiting for the Red Menace to attack the main gate, but it 
~ 

never showed up. She's probably out 
1-.

somewhere firing her cannon; explosions seem to have 'a soothing effect on her 
Q)

nerves. That's 582; "Slam-Dunk" McCoy, the greatest female athlete in the history of 
Vl 

Notre Dame, lives here. "Slam-Dunk" has captained every women's varsity at ND for 
.c

the last three years. Sporta Wastrated 
wrote her up as "ND's Superwoman"; 
from what I hear, though, she's still 
0 

working on leaping tall buildings in a 
...

single bound. There doesn't seem to be 
much of a future for her in the all-but-non­
existent realm of women's pro sports, but 
* 




~­

S.turday, Aqult 26,. 1978 ......•.....•..•••.•••................••••••

.:...__..,___.;,;;_~_.:_::...._..:...:...:.:._:....;;.::....:....::..:. .. . . ...... . . . .......... .. . . . . . . ...... . . .. . .... . ... . ......,. ' 
.• •
•
.
• 
WHERE TO FIND IT ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

1. 
ENTER 

2. 
NOTRE DAME. SPORTSWEAR 

3. 
JACKETS 

4. 
CAPS


•
•
• S.BLAZERS
•
•
• 6. IMPRINT SHOPS
•
•
• 7. COPYING 
8. 
NOVELTIES" 

9. 
INSIGNIA WARE 


10. 
GREETING CARDS 

11. 
RECORDS 

12. 
HEALTH & BEAuTY AIDS 13 STATIONARY & NOTES 


•
•
14. SCHOOL SUPPLIES 
•
•
• 0
15. ART GALLERY 
•
16. 
BRIEF BAGS •

17. 
PICTURES & PLAQUES 


• 
•0 
18. RELIGIOUS JEWELRY 
•
•
•
19. FASHION JEWELRY 
• 0 
•
20. NOTRE DAME JEWELRY 
•
• 0
20. PENS 
• 
21. CALCULATORS 
21. UP TO BOOK DEPARTMENT 
23. 
PARCEL CHECK 

24. 
12 CHECKOUT STATIONS TO BETTER SERVE YOU. 

25. 
EXIT ONLY 


•
•
• • 


•
.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
. 
•
•
•
.
. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 

WHERE TO FIND •• : BOOKS ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE AT NOTRE DAME • 0 0 
0 
•
•
• 
• 7 7
• 0 --1---r --r ----r =£---]
0 
• -~­• E-__I__L___3 E
•
0 8 9
•
•
•
•
•
• 0
,. 
•
18 19 20 21 22 0
.
•
.[1 .r~·r=-·r_ .r.-f· -I---:J E==-r:--1~-=-L=--=-£~r:n 
•

[__ =r__[__l_ -· -=] =-=r.=...::.l... __l-=0 •
•

23 24 35 25 26 27 28 
• 
29 30 
MUSIC 

EI-::-"f·-::r----r-r-T·-l [ f-J--f--.f.. L f ., 
__-r~L .--I~ T. -1--r=l [ ___ -__ .· 1 -j 
31
31 

0 
•
•
• 0 0
• 
•0 
0 •0 
•
• 

1 I ~~··,1 1'>1< .C~ BIOLOGY • 0
'l Mti'.IC JJ lAW
1 7 ENGINEERING CORE
7 ','-.'1' l_(i:,.fl ~,P.,..INAI~ 26 EARTH SCI(cNC:l 1-1 ART •
IU FINArJCf 18 ARCH!TL:CTURt:
'l (,f N£ HAL PROGI~.APJ •
11 ACCOUNliNf_, 19 AEROSPACE FNGFI ?! CHEMISTRY .1" Mt: T l Nt~A • 
• 4 f~O'IfF'IIIoM£ Nl 12 MAR"-( T~~~~~ 28 PHYSICS It> MIL IT"~ .. SCIENCf 0•
. 20 CHEMICAL Er-.G
. -~ ';t)(.IOLCJ(' y 29 F'HILO"'OPHY
1J MAH·HMAIICS ~1 CtVIL..ENG
• f, AM[I11CAN ',TU()If S 14 MANAGtMFNT 30 PSYCHOLOGY •0 
0 ;!;? ELE~TRICAL E.NG •
• ( M()Of lm I AN( aUIIC._.J-', 1~ MBA .J 1 THE Ol OG' •
. 
23 UNifi[D SCIENC[ •
8 HblQHY 32 SPEEOi .\ DHAMA
• lfl fCONOMICS 24 MICROBIOLOGY • 0
.
. .• 
• ' 
•

• 
•

• . 
.........-~· 
.... ...... . . . ... ..............................................................................·-.......................................................... 
.. ·.. ·.,---..............-·.--...-,.....,.. _____..,......_ ----,..----.---... ------~ -------·---..----~-------------.,.-.----. --...... 
~ 

~ --~-=~ 
. ~ ~ --. -----·-·-... _________ ---.--::-:. ... .---~ 
-·-.·---. -.. .. ----~--=?.:..)"'"_ .~-::.-:-_ 
.-..
_,. ·, . -'~
_/'/­
((_ 

.. .
\ -·-. .... -<..C .--:.J 
~ -...:__--. ~ 
!) ---'/.~-~--=-:--:/ /
/ 1-.... / .· 

•. 
...... _______ ~

~ ~
..:___ ~ . ---------=---~----/./ 

--------:=:...::::::::::::::::::::::::. Dame Bonetstore 38 lewis Bus Shetter 56 Sculpture Studio 
AthletiC & Convocat1on Center lew•s Hall Ctr for Cont. Ed. Bulla Shed Campus  94 95 96 97  ,r--_ ..... ..,-._,.,.) ...._ . .. ~r··~/ -'7 -.... -./g~gwGnson H~~­'~­i '(!---~..:_-----.:__--.../{! reenhouse I ---./ arne .. ·­rGNotre 0 0 · / -::-· -rounds Bidownh · ouses -· -,..__ ·-· . ---,1·-,T ----­. v'.'  
M1n1strv  
East Gate  
Galvm life Sc•ence  
Center  
Kn1ghts of Columbus Counc1l  
Home  
Band Bldg. Med. Sctenc~  Bldg  
Haves Healv Center  
Flanner Tower  
Grace Tower  
Alumm Sentor Club  
Boat House  
Holv Cross Hall  
/  

... ... ....,.,....,..­­
1 Carrol Hal 20 Otllon Hal 39 Ten~W Coutts 2 C•roet Annea 21 Motrts Inn 40 Cushing Hall of
E . .
3 Farime Retreat 22 Main Gate 
Hou• & Shrine 23 Alumni Hall 41 H~~·~::&,g. of 
4 Untw. Village 24 Post Office Bus Admin 5 ROTC 8~. 2S Wafsh Hall 42 Crowley Music H..l 6 Roctlne Mimoti81 .26 Sorin Half 43 Lafonune Student 
7 PMQborn H.. 27 Corby Hall Center 8 Lwons "-" 28 Grotto of Our Lady 44 Washington Half9 F.,_ Hall ot·.Lourdes 45 St Edw•d's Hall 
10 MorritMy Hal 2S Sacred Hun 46 Infirmary
11 Holy CtOU · Church 47 Holy Cross Hou• 
· 12 ~og Chapel 30 Columbia Hall 48 Stanford Hal 13 Old Collge 31 St Joseph Hall 49 Keenan Hell 14 Archf..Cture 32 Moreau Seminary 50 Zahm Hall 15 How•d H.U 33 Laundrv 51 Cavenaugh Hell 16 CateterNI 34 Freshman Yr. Bldg. 52 Nieuwland Science 17 South Onnu Hetl 35 Presbytery Hall 18 Badin Hall J6 Admin. Bldg . 53 Chern. Eng. Heft 19 Hammes Notre 37 Law SchOOf 54 An Gallery 
• 
• 
.· 
. 
•
. 
... ­
•· '·. 
>.
,.. 
(~
--~ 

o· Shau~hness..­
Hall of 1beral & F111~ Arts The Old F1eldhouse Breen Phtlhps Hall F arlev Hall North D•mng Hall Haygar Hall fiFe Stat•on Power Plant & Ut1l Water Tower 79 Ave Mar~a PrP.ss Mech Eng lab 80 Ma•nt. Center. 81 Warehouse & B2 Cred1t Unton Revmers Germfree 83 
84

Life Bid~ Stepan enter WNDU 85 Radiation Research 
Bulld1ng
Notre ame Mem 86 librar-, ffl Stad1um 88 Computtng Center 89 & Math Bldg. 90 Aerospace Eng. Lab 91 Cart-er Fteld 92 Earth Sctences Bldg 93 Un1vers1tv Club 
J.. 
f 
'i 
56 
57 58 
59 60 
61 
62 
63 64 65 66 67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
7'}. 
73 74 
75 
16 
77 78 

• 
-~ ' ­
\ ... . .' ' 

~_j 







_________________________________,__ 
I 
14 , _the 
Qb-.rvar. _, ., 
Orientation Schedules 
1 
• 
\ 
l •••eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeLeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
) I • • •
) • • •
• • smc meal hours •
• nd meal hours • • • • saturday, august 26 • 
: : 11:30 am to 1:15 pm lunch dining hall : 
: saturday, august 26 : 5:30 to 7 pm picnic dining hall green : • • d •
• • sun ay, august 27 •
• lunch noon to 1 pm south dining hall • • 
• • 8 to 9:15 am breakfast • : dinner 5 to 6:30 pm south dining hall : 11:30 am to 1:30 pm brunch : 
: : 4:45 to 6 pm dinner :
• sunday, august 27 • • 
• • regular meal hours • 
• b • •
• reakfast 7 to 8:15 am south dining hall • • 
• • monday-friday •
. . -. 
: lunch noon to 1 pm picnic, ace : breakfast 7am to 9 am : 
• dinner 5 to 6:30 pm north and south tl continental breakfast 9 am to 9:30 am •t 
• • lunch II am to 1:15pm • 
• regular meal times • • : : dinner 4:30pm to 6 pm_ : 
: breakfast 7 to 8:15 am : saturday-sunday : 
: continental breakfast 8:f5 am to 10:1 0 am : : 
• • breakfast 8:15 to 9:15am • 
: lunch 11:15 am to 1 pm : lunch '11:44to 1 pm : 
I • : dinner 5 to 6:30 pm : dinner 4:4 5 to 6 pm : 
1 
I • • •
• • ! •
t ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
I 
. . .
t ~ .... 
i l • • ~ ~ 0 <0 (X) • • • • • (,J • • . • •
• • 8 0 ~ ~ ~ = •
l t • • 3 •
I 
) e • '0 C» tu tu C» CD e 
) • • 3 3 3 3 3 • 
: smc registration monday, august 28 : -· ~-g .-'-~ : 
• • .Q ~ g-g c. • 
I • • • n (l) c e» CD • 
( • • o.. o ~· I a. "' • 
I I • • ~ ,. n C" m ~ • 
• 8:30 am registration le mans basement • = !. .. ~ •
I I • • •
1 
I • • ::l • 
• • c. • 
l l • 8:30 arn to 12:00 noon a-k freshman • ; cc ~ g. ~ o. CD • • • ""i" C" ~ tn en 5: co • • • I co I I ~ -• • • • ::l" ~ m ~ c. en •• schedule changes 121 le mans • / o !. en ~ 1\) ; • 1
I 
! l • • 3 = • 
~ • • 0 • 
i 
• • ::l • 
j 
I • • •
I 
I • • 3 ~ ~ c. en •
0
I 
• 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm 1-z freshman • e» .... ~ m o • .. •
' 
! • • >< ~ :::::&.. o ::l en ~ • 
I 
• • I ;:, ~ -k--k ~ D) • 
I • • 3 ~ ~ CD e» w ::l • 
• schedule changes 121 le mans • !. c ::l n •
1 
• • CD e
• • ::l •
. . ... 
CD

I . . .... 
I 
I • •8 ... 0 3 3 c. • I • C» "C n C CD CD e 
• 8 I ~ "C 0 -· t/J •
• • 0 I..Q I I 31 ~ • 
e e N . N '0 0 ,C. e • • CD n c •
• • 0 ::l • 
• • ·\ ~ .... UJ ... Q. •
• • 7-en n i •
CD

• • !. ~ .Q ::::r' I t/J • 
1 

• • N CD ,!.. 9 ~ ~ • • • UJ ; m ::::r' en •
.• • , ::I • 
'i • • 
------~­

Saturday, August 26, 1971 the observer 15 
RA's and rectors help create community spirit 
h!' Ann Gales appointment, it is often held by The manual lists as the major government.'' the skills and interests of both nead News Editor persons who have other University areas of the rector's responsibility: Fr. Mario Pedi, returning for his staff members," accordmg to the responsibilities as graduate stu­religious leadership. working with third year as rector of St. Ed's Hall, Residence Hall Staff ManuaL Like Among the first-new faces to dents or as members of the faculty students, staff supervision and described the responsibilities ofthe many rectors, most assistant rec­greet freshmen as they move into or administration. training, rogram development and rector as "primarily administra­tors are graduate students or their dorms are those of the hall According to the Residence Hall educational leadership and ad­tive.'' "I think it's important for an facultv members. staff. The residence hall staff Staff Manual compiled by the ministrative function. individual to be available, sensitive Completing the hall staff are typically consists of a rector, one or Office of Student Affairs, the rector According to Fr. Greg Green, and compassionate," he stated. anvwhere from two to ten R.A.'s, two assistant rectors and up to ten "is responsible for an under­assistant vice-president for Student "Secondarily," Pedi continued, the number depending on the size resident assistants, commonly re­graduate residence hall which Affairs, the rector "has the princi­"there is of course a disciplinary of the dorm. Green described the ferred to as R.A.'s. houses from 100 to 550 students, pal responsibility for the hall's responsibility. This is important in R.A. as, a senior or graduate for the coordination and super­spiritual and academic atmos­order to maintain in the hall an student who is • • involved directly 
The rector is a member of the vision of between three and 12 staff phere, although this responsibility atmosphere conducive to study and in _helping students live together Department of Student Affairs, members, and for the development for the hall's spitirual and aca­community living." profitably in the residence halls.·' serving as the head of the resi­of religious, community service and demic atmosphere, although this The assistant rector shares the "Selected as R.A.'s are students 
dence hall staff. Although the· educational programs that support responsibility is shared with other responsibilities of the rector "in a who have exhibited clearly out­position of rector can be a full-time total mission of the University." members of the hall staff and hall complimentary way to maximize standing personal qualities of i'e-· ­ligious and value commitment, 10f peer group leadership and aca­demic scholarship," Green stated. 
R.A. 's are expected to show active interest in the students and t;to ..
Hofman explains Freshmen year 
know the students well enought to be able to help them or get help.for by Diane Wilson program and interprets the results ing is available to all freshman at into the college best suited for them in their needs." News Editor of the tests. any time. All the student needs to them. Anne Kelly, an R.A. in Le-Wis 
"The Freshman Year of Studies The learning resource center do is call or stop in the office and Some of the upcoming actvities Hall, stated that the R.A. serves office is responsible for the aca-inlcudes the Tutoring Program, the make an appointment. being planned for the freshmen by "as the direct link between the demic program and counseling that Learning Skills Program, the The tutoring program which is the office include a shopping tour University and the students. be­is needed." Dean of freshman, Audio-tutorial Laboratory, and the another importmant program for of South Bend next Saturday, cause while we are members oOhe Emil T. Hofman explained. This is Academic and Career Information freshmen is available to those Friday night cookout on Sept. 8 and students Affairs staff, we are also done through five units: the Library, Hofman said. freshmen whose survival in a Sept. 15, a picnic at the dunes Oct. students." 
' academic program, systems, He also noted that the special particular course requires assis-8, a parents' open house Oct. 28, "Our main function is to help guidance, learning resources cen~ projects unit is concerned with a tance _beyond that which can be and a trip to Chicago Nov. S. create a community spirit within ter and special projects. number of activities of various reasonably given by the teacher or Hofman said students may inquire the halls--to help organize a com-
The academic program unit kinds. staff of the course. Hofman said at the Freshman Year of Studies munity within the dorms and -kt.ep arranges programs and courses The guidance program, which these students should seek the help Office concerning any of these it running smoothly," Kelly wm­according to University regulation has been emphasized by Hofman, of their advisor. activities. mented. and the overall objectives of the is done through a team approach. "At the center of the Freshman Green pointed out that Notre various college programs, Hofman Each freshman is assigned a Year of Studies program is the WELCOME Dame is "quite fortunate in having explained. guidance team which includes an freshman curriculum--the set of many qualified students who want 
The systems unit is responsible advisor-director, several undergra-courses taken by all freshmen. The to be R.A. 's." He noted that many for implementing the programs, duate senior interviewers arid con-objectives of the courses taken by other colleges "have to beg stu­arranged by the academic program sultants from among the faculties freshmen are first to provide a good dents to be R.A. 's," while the R.A. unit. It does the scheduling and of the many departments of the foundation in liberal education and selection process at Notre Dame is registration forfreshmen as well as University. second to provide an opportunity quite competitive. the processing of changes and Hofman emphasized that all for students to sample different "Consequently, we are ab~e to keeping of records, Hofman con-: freshmen must attend their general programs before having to commit have as our resident assistants very tinued. , counseling sessions tomorrow· themselves to any one," Hofman service-oriented, caring indivi-
The guidance unit provides the. -morning at 9 a.m. The location of stated. duals. We've been proud of our academic and personal counseling's this session will be given to He continued that the ultimate R.A. program in the past and have for freshman, he said, adding that, freshmen as they move into their gc;,al of the program is to send SACKI I great hopes for this year and the 
, it administers the guidance testing halls. He continued that counsel-freshmen happily and successfully • • future,'' he concluded. 
•****··---~~---~·~********************************~****************************************•
* . ~ • * 
* ' h. *
* --" s~~ "Uet * 
~ v..o.c'4-~I'~ ro~~,e !
L

* ~ v Q~ J oqc.L * ~ ~r;;,O~ ~~'ft.~ s SJl ;y ~ 
~ ~ "''" c,\~ q~~ *
* ,,..., cy ~ * *
* ~ *
* ~ * 
* * 
: carpet ~ 
·~ * remant explosion * ~ ~ saue up to 75% area's best buys ~NE:AY• i 
i* 100'sof remants * ~ 
* * 
* *
* *
! 12x9 as low as $48 !
* & *
-! 12xl2 as_ low as $64 uck~ood 1 J : : 12 x 15 as low as $80 °o Vofue~ : 
* *
* * 
* *
* .. * 
* * 
* ~ *
* ~~ * 
* ~ * t remnants from $15 I* * 
LINCOLN WAY lAST 
* * [ Mon., Thurs., Fri. 'til 8:30 P.M. 3 1 5-~ 0-~~nw~o~ ~ ~ Tues., &Wed. 'til 6P.M. {At the Bridge) · ~ * Sat. 'til 5:30 P.M. Mishawaka * i Open Sunday 1to 5:30 P.M. 251-5&38 l 
• SrARTtN6 ~PT. 10 ~ .­
******************...************* *********•* •••************• ---....------~--------------.----...---.-.--.---­
----------~--­

-~----------~-~----~-... 
.,.. 
-
f 
Saturday, August 26, 1978 

r the observer 





fi On-campus entertainment abounds 
by Robbie Moore 
Ninety-nine percent of the world population feels the need to get away and enjoy a little "R&R" from time to time, and students are no small exception. Fortunately, there are a wide variety of things to do right here on campus, so tinding an excuse for taking a break is an easy matter. 
For the after-dinner strollers there's always that twilight walk around St. Mary's lake. Better to 
I 
\I try it before midnight though. I unless you want to risk trippingI in the dark! j After that leisurely expenditureI of energy you might want to rest I your feet at The Nazz, a quiet 
-j entertainment spot for those early evening hours. Located in the basement of LaFortune Student
I, 
Center, and run by the students,
II I The Nazz offers a wide variety of amateur performers. Snacks are to munch on while you listen. 
For the late-nite crowd the
l 
versatile basement of LaFortune strikes again. The form of enter­
·rlr
,. 
; 
i( 
( l 
ll 
l! 
tainment is late-hour (or early 
morning) studying, usually lasting 
until 4 a.m. A cocker spaniel 
named Darby being the proprietor, 
the hang-out is appropriately chris­
tened Darby's Place, and dough­
nuts, hot chocolate and coffee can 
be obtained under the watchful ete 
eye of Darby and his master, the· 
University Chaplain Fr. Robert 
Griffin. 
More in the coffee shop-snack 

bar line is available at Saint 
Mary's. Eats are found in the 
lower level of the dining hall, with 
hours as follows: Monday through 
Thursday, 10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 
4:30 p.m. to midnight; Friday, 
10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 6:30 to midnight; Saturday, 6:30 to 8 p.m.; and Sunday, 6 p.m. to midnight. Hours vary on football weekends. Also on weekends this are is available for special activities. 
For 21-year-olds (legal drinking age in Indiana) the Senior Bar opens its doors on weekends as well as for a few nights during the week. 
Each Friday at S p.m. a mass is celebrated at the Bulla Shed, located on the fringe of campus near Grace Hall. Following mass, a dinner is served. 
For those who like to browse, the ISIS gallery of student art is located in the Old Fieldhouse and the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. 
On Friday nights you can dine Italian style, eating homeade spa­ghetti on red-checked tablecloths at Lewisio's, which is operated in the basement of Lewis Hall. Advance reservations are necessary. 
For pool hall fans, the game room. below the Huddle snack shop is the place to show off your talent. 
The Student Union is an organi­zation which schedules a variety of yearly activities, including dances, concerts and a movie series. 
Annual events to look forward to include Mardi Gras, a New Orleans-style celebration, and An Tostal, an Irish celebration to welcome the coming of Spring. An Tostal traditions include the Book­store Basketball Tournament and the mud pit games. 

Cultural Activities 
For those interested m some· thing a little more serious than mud sliding, the Sophomore Literary Festival plays host to a Numver of literary speakers during the Spring. 
Throughout the year, the Stu­dent Union also invites an interes­ting array of political, literary and popular interest speakers. 
Music, too, can be enjoyed on campus thanks to the Notre Dame Glee Club, the Notre Dame Band (whicb jOU may catch practicing in the _quads if you are in the right place at the right time), the Notre Dame Jazz Band, and various music students who also five concerts from time to time. 
Sports-minded people can take out their frustrations by using the atheltic facilities at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Ice skating. racquetball (courts must be reserved in advance), basketball, track, tennis and weight room facilities are found at the ACC, located down by the football stadium. 
l < 
ll 
l: t I 
t' 
I' 
~~ 
{ I 
,,
't; \ 
: I t' 
t' 
l' 
' 

I 
I 
CARPET R£MN19NTS 
!lI 
SIZES F~OM 12.'x~' TO 

I: FOAM RUBB£~ ftND JUT£ BliCK
II 
Jl HUNDRfDS OF ROLL ENDS •
r· 
rl LARGEST .Sf.L£CTIOI/ I LOWE.ST­
i I ' I 
PRJCE.S IN MICHIANA AREA • 


OPEN: MON DP, Y THRU FRIDAY'­9;30 TO SfiTURDAYS-9:30 ro 5:;30 
~ 
( 
.J ' t suNDAYS-;:oo ro s:oo 
I ! I lJJ&ecnoNs 
TO .STORE.. 
~ 
t 
E 
•t 
i 


SH/LLINGIS CI1RP£TS 
S/,0/ U.S. ~~ 

NORTH SD. BENDI IN. 
At the Knute Rockne Memorial Gymnasium (more popularly re­ferred to as the Rock) you can enjoy swimming. basketball, racquetball, gymnastics and weight room facili­ties. No reservations are required. 
Recently completed at Saint Mary's, the Angela Athletic Facil· ity provides a large activity area with three interchangeable courts for tennis, basketball, and volley­ball; a multi-purpose area for fencing, gymnastics, dance, an 1 exercise; plus two racquetball courts. 
The swimming pool in Regina Hall is also available for Saint Mary's students' use. 
Last but not least, don't forget 

-the opportunities provided by the great outdoors, such as tennis (courts are located near the ACC), golf and free-style football and frisbee on the quads. Beaching-it is another possibility afforded by St. Joseph's lake. Inter-and intra-hall sports are also availble, ranging from tennis, basketball and volleyball to foot­ball, soccer and softball. For those who do not choose to participate, loyal fans are always welcome to watch th.e various sports. Times and places for games are usually posted in the halls. 
Other Sources of Entertainment 
The quads always lend them­selves to eating out-of doors, the first such event to be the annual Carney picnic during the first week of school. 
Emil T. Hofman, dean of the freshman year of studies, organizes barbeques, trips to the dunes. snow parties and a trip to Chicago for freshmen each year. These activities are known collectively as "Emil Parties." 
Home beer approved 

WASHINGTON [AP] -Those who like their beer home-made won a round in the Senate yesterday. 
By voice vote and without dis­sent, the Senate approved a bill that would allow the adult head of a family to make up to 200 gallons of b(!er a year for household consump­tion. 
The Senate also completed con­gressional action on a separate bill revising Customs Bureau proce­dures in an effort to ease Ameri­can's re-entry into the United States with merchandise from abroad. 
The bill would increase to $300 the amount of duty-free property that may be brought into the United States and levy a flat 10 percent duty on next $600 worth. 
The legislation now goes to President Carter. 
The home-brew measure would exempt do-it-yourself beer from the 29-cent-per-gallon federal excise tax and would cost the federal government an estimated $1.5 million a year in lost revenue. 
It wold put producers of home­made beer on the same legal footing as those who make their own wine and drop the current requirement that wine-makers register with the Bureau of Alco­hol. Tobacco and Firearms. 
Another part of the Senate passed bill, one likely to cost about $1 milliona year would allow crop dusting pilots to claim a refund of taxes paid for farm use of aviation fuel. The refund now is allowed only for the farmer. 
8:3() 

..  •  < •  
...  ...  
..  l  •. ,  ~ •  


bY 
. .. , . 
---------'-'"''---­
• 

-~-atu_rd~_Y_,_A_u_g_u_st_2_6_,_19_7_________ .. .......
a _..thu.8,liL...;O b~sUieurv e~r_-:1--"-7 


Michiana offers entertainment variet) 
byMarkRaat more hospitable. While all the South Bend bars are more or less accessible it is important to note that raids are not. terribly uncom­
Those who traveled here through mon (there were three last year). 
the miles of flat terrain to the east, You will receive less grief at 
west, or south probably have tbe Kubiak's and Shula's, two bars uneasy feeling that their chosen that have drinks, iive bands, and 
University is surrounded by one most importantly, a 19-year-old vast Indiana cornfield. As to the age requirement. They are located proximity of the much dreaded in Michigan of course, and the 
Hoosier wastelands there is a 
Student Union runs a shuttle bus certain amount of disagreement called The Quickie between those among upperclassmen. spots and campus on weekends. 
However, the geographical cor­If your tastes run toward disco 
ner you are now in, an almalgama­the best place ;in the area is tion of restaurants, cinemas and Cinnebars in downtown South malls known as "Michiana," is Bend. Dress is required, there is a generally considered to be a cul­cover charge, and the price of the 
tural neutral zone, but fairly full of drinks reflect the fact that it is entertainment. unch<~.llenged by any other good 
The establishments offering off­disco in town. campus relief can be divided into In the food department there is a mainly six areas: drinking, wide variety, all the way from the 3 
eating, dancing, shopping, theatre. a.m. greasy spoons to the accept­and culture. able places to ·~take" mom and 
Where drinking is concerned dad. Sadly, not many of these are there are four bars within walking walking distance from campus. distance off campus that cater to However. if you are in pitted-out 
serious imbibers. On the corner of clothes and are really psyched for Eddie and Corby streets three of some late night good old fashioned these--Corby's, Bridget's, and cafe food, you are definitely ready Nickie's--compete for the no-frills for the White House Cafe, or hard-core business. Because of "Eat" as it is simply referred to. this they frequently offer specials Veteran "Eaters" make two sug­that allow one to hang out all night gestions: don't wear clothes that and go easy on the wallet at the you don't want smelling like hash same time. browns. and go after 2 a.m. for the 
Goose's Neck, on Notre Dame ''entertainment.'' Avenue, replaces the highly popu­If you ·tre in the mood for a night
• 
lar Library, and offers much the out with the crowd, definitely bring 
same. the crO\vd to Lee's Ribs for a good For those who are under 21 the munching out--pitcher-downing 
"Michi" part of Michiana might be time. It is walking distance (by 

kRIS 
kRJsto~t:rnson 
ano Rita 
COOlJOC~. 
With spea& Gl Jest 
Billy swan 
thuQsbay auqust 31 Spm notR€ Oame ace 
all SE.atS P€S€QV€b at $8.00&, $7.00 on sal€ now; 
~~ at ace Box o~~lc€ ~ 
~/­




~----------------~/ 

Monday night 9 untill close 
CORBY'S WELCOME BACK PARTY 
CANS OF STROH'S 50' OTS OF SCHNAPPS 50'~~ 
BRING YOUR CAMERA 
Nickie's) and the ribs are very found on the .Features page of The 
reasonably priced. Observer. 
You can get good Italian sales at For shoppers there are three 
Rocco's, or if you're in the mood for malls. The North Village Mall on 
pizza or sandwiches, Barnaby's is U.S. 31 and the .Town and Country 
probably the best. Warning: there Mall in Mishawaka are both med­
is no way you can get into ium size, while Scottsdale Mall, a 
Barnaby's on football weekends. beautiful two-story affair, is graced 
with over sixty stores. It is located In fact, you can't get in anywhere on the south side about 20 minutes 
on football weekends, though if from campus.you're aggressive and don't mind 
Scottsdale is accessible by trans­
braving the corwds there is a po bus (35 cents), as is the number of higher priced places that downtown's River Bend Plaza cater to higher tastes. The Boar's 
is closed to vehicular traffic in the Head has beef primarily, a good center of town. salad bar, and serves a loaf of hot 
If you don't like the "sameness"
bread before dinner. 

of the malls a unique atmosphere Captain Alexander's Moonraker prevails in Mishawaka's 100 Cen­
has atmosphere going for it, and ter. It is an old brewery that hasthey are said to have some of the been converted into housing forbest seafood in the Midwest (if you specialty shops, fine restaurants,are from the coast you will soon and two theatres. It is also thelearn that this reputation is not originating point of paddle boathard to earn). Holly's Landing in rides on St. Joseph River

Mishawaka and Eddy's also offer palatable food and drink. Outdoorsmen will enjoy Bendix 
There are plenty of theatres in Woods and the Warren Dunes. At the area. All the malls have a few Bendix one may go tubing and the and the downtown is blessed with uninitiated can be assured that four. Reviews and times of the South Bend weather will provide current movies in town can be ample opportunity to go sledding or skating. 
The Northern Indiana Historical 
Museium is located in South Bend, 
as is the Studebaker Mansion, 
which offers tours. South Bend has 
also gone progressive recently by 
building a new Arts Center. The 
Center is the best thing you'll find 
in art outside of Chicago. 
Chicago, which is about 90 miles from here, is the ultimate off­campus relief. For anyone who has never been there Chicago is a beautiful, viable city along the order of New York and Boston, but inbetween in terms of size. It can be reached for around seven dollars one way by Amtrak and eight dollars by Greyhound. Also. the Michiana Regional Airport offers frequent and inexpensive shuttle flights there for those who want to avoid the smell of Gary along the 
way. All phone nilmbers and addres­ses for the various Michiana spots 
can be found on the green card by your phone. Don't lose it. You never know when a food emergency will arise that can onlv bv that most hallowed of entities. the ·pizza place 
that delivers. 


Student Union:'trying to satisfy students' needs' 
sale of refrigerators and unpainted by Wings Fargate furniture. He also identified prob­
Staff Reporter lems of communication alleviated by such means as the Services Commission's poster distribution. 
''There are also educational needs which are not satisfied in the 
"Student Union tries to deal with 

classroom," Roche added. 
a variety of student needs,'' ex­"Speakers like Dick Gregory. who plained Student Union (SU) Direc­

was brought-to campus by last tor Bill Roche, "and we're con­year's Academic Commission,stantly adapting and evolving to open students up to philosophiesfulfill new needs wherever they not expressed in textbooks.'' 
develop." 

''Furthermore,'' Roche explain­
For those unfamiliar with cam­ed, "the Union provides for the pus politics, Student Union is a social needs of students by schedul­

student-managed organization 

ing such events as the forthcomingdedicated to the proposition that Welcome Week, which will allow "you oughta be havin' fun," Roche students to meet each other in a 
added. 

casual atmosphere."
"Student Union is the enterprise In addition, Roche cited the part of Student Government,'' 

Sophomore Literary Festival and stated Student Body President ... Midwest Blues Festival, events Andy McKenna. "While Student sponsored annually by the Cultural 
Government concerns itself mainly Arts Commission as attempts to ·with representing student views bring students face to face with the and making policy decisions, Stu­fine arts, as examples of one of the dent Union handles students ser­many commissions duties. "This vices and activities." 
year, the Cultural Arts Commission "We're trying to satisfy student intends to involve students in 
needs on a variety of levels," participatory rather than passiveRoche continued. 

experiences wth arts,'' he said. 
He cited certain physical needs Within itself, the Union is co­which are met by the SU-sponsored ordi'nated by a five-member steer­ing committee consisting of the Union ~irector, comptroller and three people selected from the eleven "commissioners" which comprise the Union proper. 

In addition to Director Roche. a junior from Atlanta, Ga. the Steer­ing Committee includes Social Commissioner John Bonacci. a senior from Rochester, MI. Gary Luchini. Student Services Com­missioner . a senior from Bethel • Park, PA. and Jerry Perez, Cultural Arts Commissioner, a senior from East Canton, OH. 
As SU comptroller , Maureen Carney. a senior from Clearwater. Fla .. manages all Union finances. 
Roche will be aided in his duties by a senior Gene Woloshyn, who will serve as the Union's associate director. Other SU personnel include senior Betty Sommers. Movie Commissioner; junior John Kuluz, Academic Commisioner; senior Joe LaCosta, manager off ticket office; junior Curt Hencl . executive staff coordinating: sen' Mary Ann Moore. Publicity Ct missioner; senior Jim Speier. (. cert Commissioner; Joanne Do and.llfRosanne Pozsgai, Calenc.... r Confmissioners;and Maureen Car­
'tley. comptroller. 
(Tear out and save this ad.) 
fot all yout album and tape 

on-e~ plus \oW pn 
! all 17.!18 list LP!I• anly 
Save mote on selected LP's-aee out postets 15.2!1 student checks accepted 
over 200 LP's in stock 
ffiaxell and TDK tapes Flannet Records
Discwasher refills 603 Flanner
hours: mon-thurs 4:00-5:00 
phone4256
and 6:30-8:00 
GRAND OPENING SALE STARTS AUG 2!1· 

~ .... ... ...........-..~--~-.... -...... ""-.... . . 
j 

-~---------~-----~·­
Saturday, August 26, 1978 

18 the observer 
' 



:;Notre Dame's long history unfolds 

by Marlbetb McCru 
Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame is one of the most 
famous Catholic institutions of ihigher learning in the United :States today. Reknowed for both ·its high academic standards and 
, championship athletic teams, the 
1 University stands as a leader in the 
: pursuit of quality education. 
Founded in 1842 by Fr. Edward Sorin, the University received its charter from the State of Indiana in 1844 under the name of the University of Notre Dame duLac. Notre Dame was not then typical of other colleges or universities. It included not only collegiate and prep students, but also young elementary students in the "Minim" Department, as well as vocational students in the "Labor School.'' 
Sorin served the University for over SO years in varying capacities, 
-,-.• l' " 
., -. 
• 

~ 
1: 
.,. ~·~. 
i / ? I

' / ...... ~ . 4 
l ·I 
~.f 
'j . ) 
FR. SORIN 
including terms as president and chairman of the Board of Trustees. The University gradually grew from a small backwoods college i ' into one of high academic reknown. : j ) In 1879, however, tragedy struck 
I 
when the Main Building was totally destroyed by fire. Through the efforts of both the community and students another building was erected just before the fall term started. This allowed the Univer­

, I 
sity to reopen with a decrease in erollment. 
With the rebuilding of the main structure, ND started a new period of growth. Over the years the University dropped both the Labor School and the Minim School until only the Collegiate division remained. 

During the 1920's ND received 11ational recognition in two differ­ent areas--one academic, the other athletic. The post-World War I delue of young men seeking higher education enable the University to begin a period of expansion that culminated in an endowment drive started by Fr. James Burns that eventually netted ND over a million dollars. At the same time Knute Rockne was· making a national powerhouse out of a previously unsung football team. Both these 


inOCChioS 
Rmll& JP&\JBJLOE 

~:~.a~.lln1&e 
,. r

• :£a1J;RGaaB~1'J 
~~ttJ~A1f..e 
• lP&!IIrz ~GOBl ...lla. 1r&d'Niillw~•'Y 
• 41ARllf!f GYI~ ·-· 
• ~tJIJLI'\JlDllr 8"m&rna 04PJIR WlllllP:IAYII 213a:!L iiiDRS'. lP~D»A~ &1Ut 8A'r1JB.Alt 'a'ltiL;t. 
"A H•'W' LOCATED IN THE GEORGETOWN PLAZA,
I 
t 
..t --JUST 3 MILES 
I I 

I . + ... -.... ' c • ' ..... 'I -.._, c'i\_ ,;;_
!! 
'I 
J'; 
. 
developments helped raise Notre Dame to prominence as on of the ntions leadind Catholic Universi­ties. 
I World War II saw ND used as a 
training  ground  for  the  armed  
forces.  The post  war years were  
another  period  of  growth  and  

~xpansion. Undergraduate enroJJ­fuent grew from 3200 pre-war to 5100 post-war. "Vetsville," con­sisting of barracks converted to housing for married'veterans, was built on the eastern end of campus. 
In 1952 the presidency was assumed Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. one of the youngest presidents ever appointed at a major university. Hesburgh's 27 year tenure has affected ND in many ways. His stature as an international spokes­men for civil rights and his involve-
Who's who? 
[cont. from page 4] awards given Father Hesburgh is the Medal of Freedom. the nation's highest civilian honor, bestowed on him in 1964 by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Hesburgh was born in Syracuse. 
N.Y. on May 25, 1917. He was educated at Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in Rome, from which he received a Bachelor of Philosophy degree in 1940. He was ordained a priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus June 25. 1943. Following his ordination, Hesburgh continued his study of sacred theology at the Catho1ic University of America, Washington, D.C., receiving his doctorate (S.T.D.) in 1945. He joined the Notre Dame faculty the same year, and served as chaplain to World War II veterans on campus in addition to his duties in the theology depart­ment. He was appointed head of the department in 1948, and the following year was named execu­tive vice president in the admini­·stration of Fr. John J. Cavanaugh, University president. 
At the age of 35 in June, 1952. Hesburgh was appointed the presi­dent of Notre Dame. His admini­stration has marked one of the greatest periods of physical growth and internal development in the University's 135-year history. Today he heads an institution with a 1,250 acre campus, a faculty of over seven hundred scholars, and an enrollment of some 8,800 stu­dents from every state in the Union and more than sixty foreign coun­tries. 
Since Hesburgh became presi­dent, Notre Dame has erected two dozen major buildings, including the 14 story, $9 million Memorial Library which opened in 1963. In the last decade, development pro­grams have raised over $100 mil­lion. 

ment in national affairs acts as inspiration for the entire University community. His massive fund 
raising drives in 1960, 1964, and 1967 have insured not only expan­sion but the continuation of quality education at Notre Dame. 
Student activism in the '60's focused on local issues as weJJ as national and international reforms. With Hesburgh taking a more 
active role in national affairs, the president was away from campus more and more. Students demanded the creation of the office of chancellor to share with the 
president the responsibilities of governing the student body. Student agitation helped create voting student membership on an co!Jege councils. 
The reform spirit of Vatican II 

0 

I 
I I i 

___j 
_::~-:-::= ­
...-•' -=-'-' 
_,__0 
.··/ 0 
/.· \;;) 


meet YOUR ~RI€nbs at 
chauncey's 
2 BlOCks rRom campus On So. BenO ave.. (next OOOR to kROq€R's) san0WICh€S, 
0Rinks. anO SUO€R 0€l1CIOUS nUtRitiOnal rQ€€Z€R rResh IC€ CQ€alll. 
Chaun 's OaJRY PaRlOR 


helped bring about two major changes in University policy. The first was the decision by the Congregation of the Holy Cross to divest itself of sole ownership and control of du Lac. In 1967 the 
Congregation signed over control of the University to a pre­dominantly Jay Board of Trustees. The second major question involved the role of women and 
what position they should play in the future of the University. After failing to reach a merger agree­ment satisfactory to both ND and nearby St. Mary's College, ND decided to go co-ed in the faU of 1972. 
Today Notre Dame has an under­graduate enrollment of approxi­mately 6 700 hundred students, including about 1800 women. 

There are four major colleges within the University: Arts and Letters, Science. Engineering and Business Administration. ND also contains a unique program entitled Freshman Year of Studies, designed specificaJiy to aid fresh­men during their ftrst year at school. 
Students come to du Lac from aJI over the United States and 64 other countries, creating a cosmopolitan learning environment. There are foreign programs open to ND students in Austria, France, Mexico, Japan, Italy and Ireland. 
Notre Dame is a constantly changing and growing place. It possesses a tradition that makes it like no other school. Fr. Sorin, in founding the University of Notre Dame duLac, strove to educate the whole person and the tradition he started continues today. 
by Michael Molinelli 
_______ r, 
= 


• 
Saturday, August 26, 1978 
_the observer 19 


WELCOME FRESHMEN!! 


,.. ..
, 


9
& 
d 
Pope election begins 
VATICAN CITY [APJ -One The doors to the chapel and the 
hundred and eleven cardinals were adjoining Apostolic Palace will locked within the frescoed walls of ren1ain sealed until the11ew pope is the Sistine Chapel y<'sterday to chosen. begin their tradition-bound quest 
Voting begins today. with two 
for a new pope · 262nd successor to 
ballots in the morning and two in 
the throne of St. Peter and spiritual 
the afternoon unitl a pontiff is
leader of the \\:orld's 100 million 
chosen. 
Roman Catholics. The cardinals. largest papal elec-With the cardinals locked away. f'Orate in modern history, will raise the eyes of the world turned to the from their ranks a successor to hooded chimney on the chapel roof Pope Paul VI. who died Aug. 6. that will bring first word a new Italians dominate the top candi-pope has been. ch~sen. After. each dates, but the choice of the first vote. the car~mal ~ ballots wtll be non-Italian pontiff in more than 400 · burnc?, sendmg puffs of s~ok.~ up years was considered a possibility. the. chtmney: Black smoke stgn.tfics Clad in red robes and biretta a~ tnconclustvc vote, but chemtcals skullcaps the cardinals their wtll be added to turn the vapor hands ciasped, filed s~lemnlv white when a pope is elected. through the carved wooden doors The first order of business for the of the chapel at mid-afternoon. For princes. of the church was the 
WANTED. 4GA t1ckets to Purdue game Call Bob at 1780 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: The Colonial Pancake House is looking for students to work part-time, nights and 
· weekends. Will train. Apply in person at the Colonial Pancake House. U.S. 31 North in Roseland 
Lee's 8.8.0. hiring for bartender and kitchen help. Apply in person. Ask for Gale or Vernon. 
Waitresses. cooks, and del1very help wanted part·t1me .Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor. Call 277-4522 
Furnished apartment 503 W. Jefferson Blvd.. South Bend Duplex. 3 rooms. 2nd floor. Gas heat fum1shed. Call 
289~7. 234~96. 
I 
I I I 
_j 
II 

i 
I 
the first time, this pre-conclave taki~g of an oath of ~ecrecy. 
procession was seen on worldwide barrtng them from revealtng any 
television. details of the conclave under 
The Sistine Chapel choir sang penalt~ of excommunication, 
the hym "Veni Creator" -"Come expulsiOn from the church. A 
God Creator" -as the princes of the similar oath was administered to 
church took their places at the long the aides. although they will not be 
wooden tables where they will vote present during the actual voting 
for a pope. process. . 
Shortly before entering the con-No conclave this century has -clave, the cardinals celebrated lasted more than four days -Pope 
Mass together and prayed for Paul was elected on the third day in 
divine inspiration for their task. 19 3. 
Once the cardinal-electors and In pre-conclave speculation, Ita­
their retinue of 70 priests, nuns, lians were mentioned most promi­
doctots, nurses and firemen nently as likely candidates. Cardi­
entered the chape, Msgr. Virgilio nals Sergio Pignedoli, Sebastiana 
Noe cleared the hall of outsiders, Baggio, Paulo Bertoli were seen as 
calling in Latin "Extra Omnes," possible "papabili." But there was 
"Everyone Out." also mention of such non-Italians as 
A Swiss colonel, a French prelate Eduardo Pironio of Argentina, and an Italian marquis then turned Johannes Willebrandss of the keys to lock the chapel doors, Netherlands, Georg asil Hume of leaving the cardinals to a task Britain and Franz Koenig of etched in 800 years of tradition. Austria. 

·  ~~  There is a way  
'  to save money on books-PANDORAS has used papetbacks and textbo~ks f~t many Fteshman classes.  
Behind the n.d. apartments­ 

one mile ftom campus. 2332342 make a friend for four years 

20 ~the observer Saturday, Auaua 26, 1971 





joe Montana heads the Notre Dame offense as Irish fans dream of a repeat of 1977. [Photo by Doug Christian] 
.....·.· ...·.·.·.·.·

Ray 0'Brienc-. :::::=============:=:=======: 
The Irish Eye 
The tales of boisterous crowds at Ohio State, Michigan, Penn State, USC and Oklahoma are truly frightening a.~d while it is debatable where the loudest group of college fotball fans gather, there is no doubt that the most demanding football legion in the world are Notre Dame footbalJ followers. This elite group can't be pinpointed to one locale because they are dispersed across the country. That is why the Notre Dame student body consists of people from almost every state which adds to its dynamic personality. 
The magic of a Notre Dame crowd cannot be explained to a foreigner; it must be experienced inside the stadium during a clash with the Trojans from Southern California or inside the ACC during a tilt with the UCLA Bruins. However, in the past few years members of the Notre Dame community have questioned the demands made on athletes and coaches from within the very same community. This has come about because of fan reaction to disappointments. Some feel if you expect nothing you can never be disappointeo but at the same time much of the magic in these events is also lost. So there must be a plausible compromise. 
The chances of the Green and Gold repeating as the best colJege team in teh United States is not overwhelming, but I'm sure that the players will be ready to defend their crown and the students will be behind them. The schedule i~a vc!ry demanding one. and an undefeated season is as likely as most of the freshmen pulling "4.0's" in their first semester. It is something you shoot for but only a lucky few will achieve. The football games abead will be as entertaining as your classes. Participate in them; be part <rf them; and enjoy them and as long as everyone tries their best, Montana will keep returning split end Kris Haines in his gun sights most often with the tight end position still being contested in fall practice. Tom Domin will also be coming out of the backfield from his flanker position. 
Center Dave Huffman anchors 
the men in the pits. Huffman is 
considered the top colJegiate ~n­
ter. Tim Foley is a menacing sight 
at left tackle tipping the scales at 
245 pounds. Ted Horansky returns 
to his )eft guard position to complte 
• 




" , ' 
the experience side ofthe line. Jim Hantman, Tim Huffman and Rob Martinovich are the prime candi­dates for the left side of hte line and tht:ir success will play a large role in Notre Dame's defense of the National Crown. 
If the offensive line is shaky, then the defensive line is treJDbl­trembling. Mike Calhoun returns to itis right tackle slot but the familiar faces end there. Injuries make the rest of the line very questionable but hidden· . talent may be there. Jeff Weston returns at tackle to give his double surgery knee one last try. Scott Zettek underwent knee surgery and can­not be counted on. Defensive end Hardy Rayam has had his physical troubles but seems ready to go as is Tom Vandenburgh. 
No coach shrugs off injuries, but ~ 

the one place the Irish could survive this dastardly fate is in the linebacking corp. Devine could play any combination of six players and still have one of the top trious trios in the country. All-American candidate Bob Golic leads this crew of strong men. Golic comes off a spectacular year as the leading Notre Dame tackler. At the left linebacker spot for his third cam­paign as a starter is Steve Heim­krieter while Leroy Leopold mans the other outside slot. Mike Whittington waits in the wings as ·does highly touted frosh Bob Crable and fifth year senior Pete 
Johnson. 
The backfield is secure despite the loss of Bradley and Burgmeier at the corners. All-American candidates Jim Browner and Joe Restic return to strong and free safety respectively with Randy Harrison capable of playing corner­back or safety. Tom Flynn holds down a cornerback slot with the versatile Dave W aymer roaming on the other side. 
One player who won't start but should make major contributions fo the team is Jim Stone. Stone showed signs of brilliance last year behind Ferguson and should see a lot of action as a dangerous breakaway threat. With a strong crew of new frosh around, Devine could pick up the depth his team will desperately need if they are to figure as a top contender. Joe Restic will once again handle the punting chores with Joe Unis holding the edge as Reeve's re­placement. 
The best thing about the 1978 Fighting Irish season is that any­thing could happen while nothing can be expected. Win, lose or draw its an excellent year to be a spectator at Fighting Irish football games . 

byllayO'.._ Sporta Editor 
The 1977-78 season was pro­. claimed ''The year of the Irish.'' It was undoubtedly one of the most fruitful years of athletic compe­tition at Notre Dame. The gra­duating seniors were blessed with a National Championship which they had probably dreamed about since their freshman year. In 1973 they were told that they had been born one year to late as the Fighting Irish had just turned in a pedect 11-0 season in their prior cam­paign. Once again it could be said that the Oass of 1980 has arrived one year to~ late, but don't count out any Fighting Irish team yet. ­
Missing from last year's 11-1 squad are ei&,ht starters including All-Americans Ross Browner, Ken MacAfee, Luther Bradley and Ernie Hughes. Also missing will be NFL draftees Steve McDaniels, 
Fry, Ted Burgmeier and Doug Becker. Yet the experts are picking Dan Devine's crew to bounce bact against a schedule that' includes Michigan and Pitts­burgh at home and Michigan State, Georgia Tech, and Southern Cal on the road. Regardless of the outcomes, the upcoming season assures a lot of excitement under the Golden Dome. 
Obviously prognosticators have their reasons for picking the Fight­ing Irish to live up to their heralded tradition. The offense has eight starters returning including the entire backfield that put a record setting 382 points on the board last year and averaged nearly 500 yards per contest. Since the right side of the offensi-ve line graduated Devine will have to order his runners to head for the left side of the field. Vagas Ferguson and Jerome Heavens should be ready to do just that. Heavens comes off . an "almost 1000 yard season" (994 

yards in,regular season competi­ion). H Ferguson can pick up from where he left off at the Cotton Bowl--100 yards, three touchdowns and the game's MVP award--then Devine will be smiling most of the season. 
Joe  Montana  returns  at  the  
controls  and  if  he  can  find  a  
replacement  for  MacAfee,  "the  

Comeback Kid" will become one of the most talked about players in the nation. 
noone should be dissatisfied. Good luck to the football team and to the jerome Heavens looks to sidestep his way to another 1000 yard season as the entire Championship Class of 1980 pecause in t~e next four months you will need it. backfield returns. [Photo by Doug Christian] 



