
NLRB showdown Monday 
Notre Dame to answer chargeS 
Mike Redenour Staff Reporter 
A showdown between the Na­tional Labor Relations Board (NL-· RB) and Notre Dame comes to a head this Monday when the NL­RB's unfair labor practice charge filed last January against the University will be presented at a hearing in the County-City Build­ing. 
Delayed for almost two months because of a mutual agreement between the NLRB and the Univer­sity, the hearing Monday will center around three .-charges origi­nally made by Teamsters Local 364 in conjunction with an attempt to unionize made last fall by 21 groundskeepers. 
The charges state Notre Dame threatened to fire the groundskeep­ers, announced wage increases and other benefits to the employees to influence them not to join the union, and contracted out the food service at the dining halls. 
Notre Dame will be represented at the hearing by the Chicago law firm, Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather and Geraldson. Thomas Bull, personnel director commented yes­terday, "Notre Dame c;an't antici­pate what the NLRB wl1l say since they will go first in the proceed­ings. But we are out to demon­strate that the rules were fol­lowed." Bull would not reveal the strategy that Notre Dame plans to take at the hearing. 
Mike Lawrence, assistant busi­
ness representative of Teamsters 
Local 364, said yesterday, "Al­
though we originally charged the seven for Castellini and four for Frick.

Judicial Board selects Rizzo 
In the initial sophomore officers 
by Bob Verettonl Senior Staff Reporter 
Jayne Rizzo. vice-presidential candidate on the recently defeated Mike Schlageter ticket in the student body officers election, was elected Judicial Coordinator last night by a majority vote of Hall Judicial Board chairmen. 
Rizzo defeated Kevin Mescall, Hall J-Board chairman from Alum­ni. and Mary Ellen Woods. soph­omore from Breen-Phillips. 
The Judicial Coordinator serves as chairman of the Judicial Council, a board of the Hall Judicial Board chairmen that was formed under the new Student Government con­stitution. 
According to the constitution, the Judicial Coordinator "shall promote efforts that will foster greater student understanding of the University rules." 
"The upcoming year is a critical one for the future of the Judicial Council," Rizzo noted. "The Council has the potential to become an active campus voice on behalf of the students." 
"We can take an active stand on issues that effect the entire cam­pus, especially working in con­junction with other organizations on campus, like the CLC, Student Government, and the HPC," she said. 
Rizzo said she would like to see "educational efforts expanded" so that students would have a better understanding of University rules and disciplinary options available. 
President of Lyons Hall this year, as well as editor of the Lyons Hall newspaper, Rizzo was not a mem­ber of the hall's J-Board, but she said "I don't think that's to my disadvantage.'' 
"I've worked with the Judicial Board as hall president, and I've stndied the judicial process th ·ugh my campaign for student booy vice-president," she added. 
According to the Student Gov­ernment constitution, the Judicial Coordinator post was supposed to be filled by April 1. Steve Dane and John Talbot, the Judicial University with the unfair labor practice charge, it's up to the NLRB in this hearing. The Board is calling the shots." 
Commenting on the delay of the hearing from the originally scheduled February 15 date, Law­rence charged, "The University doesn't want this hearing to occur. It's to their advantage the longer it takes to reach a decision on the unionization of the grounds­keepers. Until this unfair labor charge is settled we cannot proceed with the issue of the grounds­keepers unionization effort." 
The Teamsters were advised by their lawyers not to proceed with the unionization effort until the unfair labor charge was settled, he said. Lawrence did not give a reason for the lawyers discontinu­ance of the unionization effort. 
Lawrence added,"We're sorry for the delay but we think the University is guilty of the charge.'' 
Bull stated that Notre Dame also wants to proceed with the issue of the unionization effort. "We want to get this cloud (the unfair labor charge) over with. We are inno­cent," he emphasized. 
Bull questioned the union's halt to the proceedings of the grounds­keepers unionization effort. "What are they trying to accom­plish?" he asked. 
The hearing will be "fairly formal," according to Lawrence. an administrative judge of the NLRB will preside at the 10 a.m. Monday hearing. The hearing, to be held on the seventh floor in the Commissioner's Board Room, is open to the public. 
election, 69 percent of the fresh­Coordinators from former Student voted on election procedure. They men class voted, but no ticket won Body President Dave Bender's decided to use a simple majority of by the two-thirds majority nec­
cabinet, noted that there was some the members present. Twelve of essary for a first-ballot victory.confusion with this year's new the 22 Hall J-Board Chairmen This forced a run-off. selection process. attended and voted at last night's The Veraldi ticket won yester­

At a meeting Monday night to meeting. day's run-off by a total of 101 votes, . elect the Judicial Coordinator, "This Council has an awful lot of pulling in 54 percent of the votes. 
Dane noted, half the people who potential for next year," Talbot Veraldi's slate polled 579 votes to showed up were the Hall J-Board said. "There's no reason anyone 478 received by Abowd's tickte. chairmen for next year. The here at Notre Dame should be Stressing participation as one of 
constitution, however, stipulates pimped as far as the judicial his major themes, Veraldi said, that the outgoing chairmen should process goes." "We want to get the sophomore do the voting. "Dean of Students James class involved by getting out and 
Dane also noted that there were Roemer has been the greatest all talking with them. But we don't no by-laws for the actual election year long,'' he concluded. want to tell them what to do." procedure. This led to further "Whether people want to believe it Commenting on the voting con­
confusion, he said. or not, he's really cooperated with troversy in the senior class officers Before last night's. election, the us. I'm sure he'll do the same with election, winning candidate Cas­outgoing Hall J-Board Chairmen Jayne." tellini said, "It's all over with. It should be buried as quickly as it was uncovered." "We disagreed with the run-off, but that's over now," Castellini continued, "We will thoroughly examine the election procedure so this never happens again." Commenting on plans for next year, Castellini said, "We plan to do more than the senior class has ever done before. I hope the senior class is ready for a good year, because we are.'' Losing candidate Frick com­mented on the election foul-up, "It was a bad situation that didn't have to happen." Frick rejected the idea of holdin an entirely separ-ate election which would have been held today. "H a new election were held on Friday," he said last night, "the turnout would probably have been lower because many seniors would be at the White Sox game or out at the bars." Speaking about the tasks his opponent Castellini faces, Frick said, ''Jerry has a lot of work ahead of him, such as the Senior Trip, and choosing the Senior Class Fellow.
r The sooner the changeover takes place, the better." 
A run-off election was also required in the junior class officers election. Voting for the Dan McCurrie and Tom McGrath tickets is scheduled for today. 

Because notification of the re­voting for off-campus juniors 
Mary Heslin, Commissioner of Consumer Affairs for the state of Connecticut, spoke before a small 1roup at St. Mary's Carroll Hall in last niaht:s session of Women's Opportunity Week. 



The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. m·ary's Vol. XII, No. 112 Friday, April 7, 1978 
CC~stellini, Veraldi elected 
by Ed Moran McKenna, vice-president; Debbie Smith, secretary; and Aaron Bell, In votink held yesterday, the treasurer. 
Jerry Cas~llini ticket defeated the Voting for juniors was limited to 
Terry Frick ticket in a contested off-campus students and was not a senior class officers election and general run-off election. Frick the Jim Veraldi ticket won over the contested Tuesday's election be­Rosemary ' Abowd ticket in the cause the off-campus polling place, sophomore class officers run-off located in the Huddle, was closed election. 
prematurely during the originalCastellini was elected as senior election. Castellini won the first 
class president. His fellow officers election with 468 votes to Frick's 
are Julie Rittenhouse, vice-pres­458 votes. Only seven of the 135 ident; Barb Langhenry, secretary; juniors living off-campus voted on and Gary Fair, treasurer. Veraldi, Tuesday.
who won as sophomore class In the election held yesterday,
president, is joined by Maureen eleven off-campus juniors voted, the majority again favoring the Castellini ticket. The votes split wasn't made until 12 midnight Tuesday, neither ticket had a chance to any last-minute cam­paigning. 
"We couldn't just call up all the people we knew who lived off­[contfnued on page 8) 
Experts defend Social Security 
W ASBINGTON [AP] -Two author­ities on Social Security urged Congress yesterday not to be panicked into rolling back the Social Security tax increases en­acted last year. They told . the Senate Finance subcommittee on Social Security that -taken as a whole -the benefit changes and tax increases voted in December were a great step forward. 
Noting that an effort to roll back some of the tax increases is gathering steam in Congress, Rob­ert M. Ball, who headed ·Social Security during the Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon administra­tions, said "it would be the wiser course not to legislate on this matter at all this year." 
He and Robert J. Myers, who was the nation's chief Social Security actuary for 23 years, agreed that the public has zeroed in on last year's tax increases and ignored the improved benefits. 
The high-income workers in their early 40s who seem to be complain­ing loudest about the tax increases apparently do not realize that when they 1retire, their Social Security benefits will be about $21,000 a year or more than $30,000 for a couple, Ball said. 
Once a worker is retired, he added, his or her Social Security pension will be shielded forever 'against inflation. "Fifteen years after retirement, the Social Secu­rity beneficiary will still be able to buy the same level of living as at the time of retirement," Ball said. Ball and Myers testified before the Senate panel only a day after House Democrats -claiming strong reaction from voters -went on record in favor of reducing last year's Social Security tax increase. In order to avoid cutting Social Security benefits the House Demo­crats proposed making up the difference from income tax re­
venue. 

"At the present time, there is an 
undue and misleading cry of crisis­
even panic -about the financial 
effects of the 1977 amendments," 
Myers said. 
In simple terms, Ball said, under the 1977law, "all the high earners are being asked to do is pay the same flat rate that low earners .already are." 
In 1978, a worker pays Social Security taxes on all he or she earns up to $17,700. !In 1987, under the new law, the tax will apply to the first $42,600 of income. 
;2:;;;;;;;;;;;:th;!e~o~b;:s;:e!;;!rv:!er~~~-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;Fr;.;id;;;ay;;;,;;;Ap;;;ri;;;l7;;;,~19_78 Achieve 500 mark 
Weather 

Becoming mostly sunny and pleasant Friday with highs in the upper 50s to the low 60s. Friday night clear and cool with lows in the mid to upper 30s. Increasing cloudiness Saturday with a chance of showers. Highs in the upper 50s to the low 60s. 
Mild Sunday through Tuesday with a chance of showers Sunday. Lows in the 40s and 50s. Highs in the 60s and 70s. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
FRIDAY 
12 pm 
'l.pm 3 pm 3:30pm 
5:15pm 7, 9:15 & 11:00 pm 7:30pm 8 pm 8 pm 
8 pm 8 pm 8 pm 
SATURDAY: Bam 
8:30am 
12:15 pm 1 pm 
7, 9:15 & 11:30 pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 8 pm 8:15pm 
SUNDAY 
I, 7 and 10 pm 
4:15pm 
&:30 pm 7:00pm 
7:15pm 
8 pm 8pm 

convention, 3rd annual intercollegiate sociology convention, involving soc. stds thru-out the midwest, spon by the nd soc. class & alpha tappa delta, Iafortune 
c-ollegiate jau festival, jazz colloqium, call 7757 for more information. 
film series, "joani mitchell, sponsored by the art gallery, art gallery. 
philosophy series, "criminal justice, kurt baier, and doug almeida , mem. library lounge, sponsored by the philosophy dept. 
mass and supper, bulla shed 
film, "marathon man" sponsored by the student union, eng aud., $1. 
collegiate jazz festival, stepan center, $4.50 or $8.50 festival pass. 
second scene drama, "the maids" sponsored by the nd-smc theatre, washington hal:. 
grand opening, "the cellar", featuring rich pug­liese, john hobbs & mike kammersdiener, sponsored by keenan hall, keenan hall basement, free admission. 
lecture, "sports in america", dr. harry edwards, u of cal berkley, spon by the soc dept, lib aud. 
anything goes, smc athletes vs. n~ athletes in obstacle and relay course, angela athletic facility. 
lions club travelogue, "all about england," joe adair, o'laughlin aud. tix at the door $2. 
volley ball, turner's national volleyball tournament, angela athletic facility, spectators welcome, no charge 
convention, 3rd annual intercollegiate sociology convention, Iafortune. 
collegiate jazz festival, stepan center, $2.50 
lecture, "the organization of ecologists" dr. russell dyrnes, span. by nd soc. class Iafortune ballroom. 
film, "the marathon man", eng. aud. $1. 
academic quiz show, smc scholars vs. nd scholars, dr. pilger, me, little theatre, moreau hall. 
collegiate jazz festival, stepan center, $4.50 
the cellar, featuring the klee bros. , spon by keenan hall, keenan hall basement, free. 
junior recital, wendy saz, cel!o, lib. aud., public invited 
film, "city lights", with charlie chaplin, eng. aud 
film, "the crucified lovers," sponsored by the modern language dept, ccc, and nd film society, library aud. $1. 
meeting, cila, lib. aud. &lounge. 
meeting , an tostal committee, anyone interested in working is invited to attend, Iafortune theatre 
vespers dedicatory organ recital, nd students of sue seid-martin on new holtkamp organ, spon by dept of music, sacred heart church. 
concert, smc spring choral concert, o'laughlin aud., sponsored by the dept. of music, no charge 
the cellar, featuring 'Jr I shaugnessy, renard gueringer, brian mullin!>, jim carroll, spon. by keenan hall, keenan hall basement. 
, 
Gypsies plague jailhouses 
SAN DIEGO (AP] -Eleven Gypsies charged in a series of local burglaries had been arrested more than 500 times in various parts of the country -but authorities always let them go because they were too much trouble to prosecute, a law enforcement official says. 
"No one wants them," Deputy District Attorney Thomas Hardy said Wednesday. "They create so much havoc in jails when they're arrested that they've always been let go after they pay their bail and 
fines  and  return  the  stolen  pro­ 
perty."  
The  Gypsies,  who  wear  the  

colorful skirts and shirts of their native central Europe, face preli­
minary hearings next Wednesday in connection with thefts in nearby Borrego Springs. 
Several children traveling with them -including a 12-year-old girl who authorities believe cracked a safe -have been placed in a county home or in Juvenile Hall, Hardy said. 
Hardy said police from Chicago to California report at least 500 prior arrests for the same group of Gypsies, but as far as he knew they had not been prosecuted until now. 
Deputy Sheriff Sam Bove said the women make a habit of tormenting their jailers by such acts as throwing excrement at them. 
Sociology groups convene 
by Paul Callahan 

The Notre Dame Sociology Club and the Epsilon chapter of Alpha Kappa Delta, the Sociology Honor Society, are holding their third annual Intercollegiate Convention today and Saturday in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Participants are from colleges and universities throughout the Midwest, such as Ohio State, the University of Kentucky, Indiana University, and the University of Chicago. This year's convention will have three sessions, one this afternoon and two tomorrow. 
There will be eleven sections consisting of three papers each, with a faculty chairman and a faculty commentator. Each author will present an abstract of his or her paper,lasting approximately 20 minutes. This will be followed by a 15 minute critique by the faculty commentator, and then 30 to 45 minutes of open discussion by the audience. 
There will be two featured speakers at the convention. Harry Edward will speak on ''Sports in 
Deadline Sunday 

for music contest t 
The deadline for the First Annual Nazz Interhall Music Competition is this Sunday at midnight. The deadline is improperly listed as April 5 on posters on campus. Students should call Enrique at 1479, Mike at 1501, Jim at 1165 or George at 8267. 
ERRATUM 

The An Tostal carnival has been scheduled for April26-30, not April 16-20 as reported in Wednesday's Observer. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frldey except during exem end vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased for 520 per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indian• 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Auocleted Prell. All repro­duction right& ere reserved. 
NEED SUMMER 
WORK? 
make $2,500 in1ervievJS: Fri. Apr. 71h at 3:00 or 7:00 Sat. Apr. 71h at 12:00 or 3:00 or 7:00 
MORRIS NN RM 111 apply in person, no mils 
America" tonight at 8 p.m. in the 
Library Auditorium Edward is a professor of Sociology at the University of California­Berkeley. He is a well known figure in the area of sociology of sports. 
The convention address will by given by Russell Dynes, the Execu­tive Officer of the American Socio­logical Association. Dynes will speak on ''The Organization of Sociologists", at 1 p.m. in the Ballroom of LaFortune. He is currently on leave from Ohio State University where he specialized in the study of deviancy. 
Participants in the convention will be lodged on campus with Sociology majors. There will be an informal gathering of faculty. gra­duate and undergraduate students in the Morriss Inn today preceding Edward's talk. There will also be a luncheon for the convention participants tomorrow 
in the Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. 

"If we keep them in custody and convict them, the penal system will have done a tremendous chore,'' Hardy said. "Breaking a 3,000 year-old habit -stealing." 
Hardy said the seven women and four men jailed here are thought to be among an estimated 100 Gyp­sies who migrated to Mexico from Europe a few years ago and crossed into Arizona. The Gypsies, who apparently do not speak English, have no lawyer. An 18-year-old exchange student from Yugoslavia entered an innocent plea at their hearing this week. 
Hardy said immigration officials have declined to take action against the Gypsies, who are considered stateless. 
One of the jailed men, George Ivan Konovalov, 44, is described by Bove as "king" of the roving band. Bove said that usually when the Gypsies run afoul of the law, a "king" flies out from Chicago to post bail. This time, no bail has been proffered. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor:  Bob Brink  
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Tim  
Sullivan  

Layout Staff: Beth Jones, Ann Titus, Anne Griffin Editorial Layout: Rick LaBelle Features Layout: Reed King Sports Layout: Mark Perry, Ray O'Brien Typists: Stacy Weaver, Mark Rust, Mardi Nevin, Theresa Richeson Early Morning Typist: Leigh Tunakan, Rich Clarizio Day Editor: Tom Nilsson Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Ad Layout: John P. O'Connell, Greg Trzupek Photographer: Sue Coliton 

Sundav Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
5:15 pm Saturday Vigil Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.C. 
9 :30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Thomas Blantz, C. S.C. 1o:45 a.m. Rev. James T. Burtchaill, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. James T Burtchaell, C.S.C. and Recital Homilist 




[Photo by Sue Coliton] 

--------------------------------------~
r---·.._..-..-..-.-~-·-----·-....,..-·-----·~....,...-· .........__...l 
~ i 
~ SAINT S~pritig ~ ~ MARY'S ~ 
1 coLLEGE Choral i ~ ~ conce1i ~i 
~ i ~ O'LAUGHLIN 8:00 pm April 9 ~ 
~ AUDITORIUM admission free ~ 
t...-----·-·--·.......---......-·-·-··-·-.-..-·-·-..--..........--..J 
0ornpsett St01dio 

Friday, Afltril 7, 1978 
the observer 
SMC room picks raise furor 
by Molly WouHe Senior Staff Reporter 

Suspected abuse of "room ex­change"days has created a furor over housfng at Saint Mary's. Many juniors are disturbed be­cause a number of freshmen and sophomores have signed up for single and double rooms in LeMans Hall. Juniors traditionally have first choice. 
Minnie Owens. SMC director of Housing, said several students who were "mostly juniors" picked room lottery numbers last week and chose rooms in LeMans. intending to room with other students who had already selected rooms. 
She explained this was probably done in order to give their first rooms to underclassmen friends on "room exchange" days. Owens remarked that she couldn't see why students wanted to "undercut their own class." 
LeMans is one of the more popular dormitories on campus because of spacious rooms, a convenient .location,. and the var­ious services it houses, including the bookstore. 
"A lot of juniors in my section are upset because they wanted to live in LeMans, and now they have to split up and resort to other dorms." Jerri Plumb, an RA in LeMans commented. "I can't see why people would rob their own classmates." 
"I think the lottery system needs to be re-evaluated." Plumb con­tinued, • 'because kids have already found a way to beat the system." 
"Many kids are upset because it isn't fair." noted Debbie Roberts, president of the sophomore class. "I was originally supposed to be in a double. but now I'm in a quint because they were the only rooms left." 
Roberts added that students are circulating a petition reques~ing a new lottery. 
Owens, however, declared that another lottery is "out of the question." 
"There are only about thirteen rooms involved -some of them singles, some doubles," Owens remarked. "And I know what's going on. There's a way to deal with this." 
"Room exchange days are here for a need, not to be misused,'' she pointed out. "The ones who deliberately set out to cut others need to feel something." Owens promised to follow a "check and balance system'' but refused to give de•ails. 
"All I've ever said is you can make a room exchange -I never said where." Owens explained. "We're here to help-and protect­people." 
Final room exchange days are scheduled for Tuesday through Thursday. 
Bike idea captures contest 
bv Kathleen ConneHv Senior Staff Reporte~ 

A plan to reconvert abandoaed bicycles into free student transport­ation is the winning entry in this year's Ombudsman (OBUD) Oper ation Brainstorm. 
The proposal. submitted by Bro. Joseph McTaggart. assistant rector of Fisher Hall. suggests that after some campus agency such as Security or Grounds and Mamte­nance determines that the bikes are abandoned, they be painted an iridescent green and made avail­able for student use free of charge. 
Two provisions of the plan are that the bikes remain -on campus and that the bikes not be locked up. Ton Behny. chairman of Operation Brainstorm. said that students will be able to take one of the "Green Machines" to class and park it outside the building. There would be no guarrantee that it would be there when they returned. he added. because the bikes would, in effect. belong to everybody. 
When questioned about the pos­sibility of theft. Behny said that the "Green Machines" would be such a conspicuous color that they would be too easily identifiable to make it worth any risk to steal one. 
"The cost of the program would be very little.'' Behny stated "because the only expense would be the paint." 
McTaggart suggested that even if it proved impossible to use aban­doned bikes for some reason. that "old clunkers" could be purchased and painted at a low cost. 
The first place winner was very startled when he learned of his entry's success. 'Tve never won anything in my life." he said. ·'This is a real dilemma for me -to have this much free money." 
McTaggart said that he'd prob­ably donate the money to Sr. Marietta's Primarv Dav School. 
He stressed that -the fdea was not completely original. "I read it somewhere in a newspaper and hoped that it would benefit our students." McTaggart said that he would be willing to use half of the $50 firs.t prize to start the program. if necessary. 
The second place prize of $25 will be awarded to Badin Sophomore Beth Imbriaco for her idea to computerize the lottery process for concert ticket distribution. At pre­sent. students are given a place in line using a random drawing of their IDs. Imbriaco suggests that students would instead present their cards to be recorded in computer banks using the dining hall checking machines. These records would then be run through another computer on a scrambler program that would randomly se­lect ID numbers for position in line. "This process." lmbriaco claims," would help eliminate congestion, confusion and charges of cheating or favoritism." 
The cost for this might possibly be a fee for computer time. 
Third! place goes to off-campus senior John Larrabee for his sug­gestion that an extension of the Notre Dame Credit Union be installed in the LaFortune Student Center. He reasoned that if some branch of the facility were more centrally located. the students would make better use of it. 
"For all practical purposes." the entry read. "it is as good as a bank and one can deposit as well as withdraw money.'' This would also take some of the pressure off the Cashier's Office. Costs for the office would probably be absorbed into the costs of the upcoming renovation of LaFortune. Larrabee will receive $15. 
The entries were judged by a panel composed of three students and three faculty advisors. Behny was assisted by OBUD workers Joe Turek and Bart Nagy. Faculty members of the committee were Sr. Jane Pitz. Associate Director of Campus Ministry; Mr. Richard Sullivan from the Office of the Registrar; and Mrs. Mary Claire McCabe. Director of Staff and Student Development. 
"We were really amazed at the many excellent ideas that people submitted." Behny said. "A lot of good ideas didn't win, but some of them still may be used.'' 
Some of the ideas submitted that didn't win were a pro-tem social commission for students remaining on campus during breads, bike paths, a disco on campus and once a week social gatherings with entertainment in the South Dining Hall. 
"I think the judging was. fair and responsible." Behny said. "Every entry was read at least three times.'' 
Entries were judged on the degree of inventiveness of the idea. pract­icality. and how easiily the idea could be implemented. 
exquisite food private bar entertainment with dance floor sleeping rooms 
THE NOTRE c.uE CULTUIW. ARTS COMMtiSION PR!ESENTS THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL 


Collegiate Jazz Festival 1978 
FEATURING MANY OF THE NATION'S FINEST COLLEGE JAZZ GROUPS
~:JJr.Q, QmJl. 7 &~l:ilt~ml!J, Qm))~ s 
JUDGES: HUBERT LAWS FLUTE LE~V TABACKIN SAXOPHONE 
LOUIE BELLSON DRUMS 
LARRY RIDDLEY BASS 
JOJ'-IN LEWIS PIANO 
DAN MORGANSTERN CRrriC 
7=30 FRIDAY NIGHT $.4.50 12=15 SATURDAY $:2.50 6:30 SATURDAY NIGHT $4.00  WEEKEND PASS STUDENT NON-STUDENT  $7.50 $8.50  
j,~qfJ_§.f!  QC(fjl~(f~  

111l3Jl'Qfl\~1fm;~ ®§ .fl®~l\Cf 1!\~:Wl<f 
~~----------------------------------------~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 7, 1978
the observer 

Grant aids multi-use project 
PLO guerrillas hold Israeli bodies 
[API • Palestinian guerrillas claim­ed yesterday they were holding bodies of Israeli soldiers killed in an incident inside a guerrilla-held portion of southern Lebanon. Sources said they would try to bargain for the body of a female terrorist who led the March 11 highway attack inside Israel that touched off the big Israeli push into Lebanon. 
Conflicting reports of the num­ber of dead ranged from three to five, the first Israeli casualties reported since a cease-fire was declared March 21. Israel claimed who led the March 11 terrorist

RTA to halt South· Shore 
attack inside Israel. The United Nations asked the

subsidy after Sept. 30 
International Red Cross to arrange 
CHICAGO [API· The Regional Transit Authority (RT A) voted yes­terday to stop subsidizing the South Shore Line after Sept. 30 unless Indiana communities agree to pay some of the money toward the operation of the commuter railroad. 
The South Shore, which claims it lost more than $3.2 million on passenger operations in the fiscal year which ended June 30, could not stop running trains without the permission of the Interstate Com­merce Commission (ICC). The ICC denied South Shore request last year to end the rail service. 
The railroad carries about 3,000 round trip riders , more than 80 percent of them from Indiana , between Chicago and Indiana com· munities as far east as South Bend. 
The RTA board of directors voted yesterday to study alternative ser­vice to the South Shore if the RTA cuts off its subsidy. 
Indiana transit officials are nego­tiating with the South Shore to provide financial aid for new equip­ment and a subsidy of its annual losses. No agreement has been reached. 
In the fiscal year which ended June 30. the RTA gave a subsidy to the South Shore of $580,000, 18 percent of the line's yearly repor­ted loss. 

the guerrillas had ambushed an In Jerusalem, a U.N. spokesman Israeli jeep Wednesday four miles said Israel yesterday had presented south of the port of Tyre. a plan for partial withdrawal of its 
The incident was reported as forces. . 
U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Israel reported three dead in W aldheim sent a message to Israeli the Wednesday ambush. Palesti­Prime Minister Menachem Begin nian guerrillas in Beirut claimed urging "speedy" withdrawal fo the four were slain and one captured invading forces from southern "unharmed," and the United Lebanon. Nations said its reports indicated 
Diplomatic sources at the United all five were killed. Nations reported that the 21-nation The Palestine Liberation Organi­Arab bloc will call for a Security zation claimed the jeep was an Council meeting to consider pos­Israeli patrol tyring to infiltrate sible sanctions against Israel for guerrilla-held positions, and refusing to remove its troops. sources said the PLO would try to 
bargain for the body of Dalal Mograbi, 22, the female guerrilla 
SOUTH BEND, lnd.[API· South 
strongholds and going beyond the 
Bend's downtown development 
six-mile strip it had initially plan­
project received a $7.6 million shot 
ned to invade. 
in the arm yesterday in the form of 
An official announcement in 
a federal grant. 
Jordan said King Hussein will send 
The funds will be used to help 
emissaries to all the Arab capitals 
finance a $30 million commercial 
with a proposed agenda for an Arab 
project aimed at developing large 
summit conference on the current 
vacant areas downtown, Mayor 
Middle East situation. 
Peter J. Nemeth said. 
The Arab world came under 
The public and private multi-use 
verbal fire from the PLO's No. 2 
project will consist of an 800-space 
man, deputy chief Salaha Chalef. in 
city parking garage, a new high­
a Swiss interview published yester­
rise First Bank and Trust Co. office 
day. Chalef criticized the lack of 
building and a new Marriott hotel 
hardline Arab support for Palesti­
with 300 rooms. 
nians fighting to repel the Israeli 
The mayor said construction will 
forces in southern Lebanon. 
begin later this year. 
Center to study schools 


the return of the Israeli casualties 
"We have talked and talked and 
to their homeland. 
talked,"' said RTA board member 
In other developments, the Israe­
Daniel Baldino, " and so far, really 
li Foreign Ministry said it does not 
dollar one, in either operating 
believe its use of U.S. supplied
assistance or capital assistance has 
arms in the invasion of southern 
not come out of the state of 
Lebanon was a violation of a 1952 
Indiana. This is to serve notice on 
U.S.-Israeli arms pact. 
everyone that if Indiana doesn't 
On that matter. U.S. Secretary of 
make a contribution, we'll look at 
State Cyrus R. Vance told Congress 
alternative service." 
he believed Israel had acted in 
When it asked the ICC to 
self-defense after the terrorist raid 
terminate service , the South Shore 
on its civilians and would not 
said Indiana has not provided 
recommend any action against
operating subsidies or cash toward 
Israel. 
replacing the rail system's old 
The 1952 arms pact allows the 
equipment. 
United States to suspend military
The RTA has said it will pay part 
aid to Israel if it determines that
of the cost of new equipment if 
U.S. supplied arms were used
Indiana and Indiana communities 
illegally.
served by the line contribute 
But Vance said Israel. while
proportionate shares of the money 
acting in self-defense. may have
needed to obtain a fedral grant for 
violated U.S. law by using exces­
new equipment. 
sive force against Palestinian 
The Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society at Notre Dame has been selected by the Diocese of Cleveland to survey the future of Catholic high schools in the metropolitan area. Funding for the research will be provided by the Oeveland and Gund Foundations. 
Bishop James A. Hickey, head of the diocese with 28 Catholic high schools, last year established a task force of parents and professional educators to study a problem of declining enrollments and rising costs, which he described as chal­lenges that need to be addressed to insure the continuation of Catholic secondary education into the 21st century. Areas to be studied by the Notre Dame Center include an attitudinal study. enrollment patterns and demography, personnel needs, school finances and school facili­ties. 
Principal investigators C. Lincoln 
Johnson, director of the Social 
Science Training Laboratory. and 
Robert Huckfeldt, q'irector of the 
Social Science Archives, will 
develop a questionnaire to be given 
to a random sample of Catholics. 
They will also perform the analyses 
to develop enrollment profiles and 
projections for the,high schools. 
David C. Leege; director of the 
Center, will provide overall super· 
vision for the consultant team 
selected to work on the study. 
Casual Corners presents fashions 
In the Dining Hall tomorrow afternoon at 3 p.m. Casual Corners will present a fashion show with Saint Mary's students as models. There will be a $1.00 admission charge. 
Juniors to elect 
SillDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION PRESENTS 
president today 
The runoff election for Junior Class President will be held today. 


The History of Sex
Voting will be in each dorm from 
11:30 a.m. to I p.m. and from 5 to 6 
p.m. Off-campus students may vote in the Huddle from 11 a.m. to 
in the Cinema 5 p.m. All present sophomores are encouraged to vote. 
by 

HELD OVER Jrd wEEK D. 
Arthur Knight 
Thurs. Fri. 1 :45-4 :00-o :45-9:20 
Daily thru Sunday 

Sat. Sun -6:45-9:20 only 
WRITER FOR PLAYBOY MAGAZINE
at 2:00-4:30-7:00-9:30. 

. UIT REfNULDS 
IIR.IS IIRISTOFFERSOK JILL cunmiRDIII . 
MONDAY APRIL 10 7:00PM
.''"'~\ "SEMI­
(;,-;~ 1TOUGH" 
libracy Auditorimn ~nfree
r;.:;.~-:.i.i;'t '·, I!!] Uno1011 ~ISis 
OPEN: MON-THURS 9AM-11 PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR. WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
u.s. 31 






,,.,"*" 
lry-DIIII/Jegin 111nday spill 9111 
6:1(} /1111 in lsltJI'hlne NltfJIJm 
.,ltJ : 11 n.d. lr•llm1n, lfJPINJmlfl 1nd junltJr rltHIIIJn 
Friday 3:00 -6:00 3 4 25• Been 3 6 so• Wine 
Free 

9:00 -2:00 9 -10 25• Been 1 0 -11 *1,50 Pltehen 1M EntertainMent Located Mr IMI SMC hal 


Fridiy, April 7, 19i'8 the observer 
5 

Devine, captains speak of past and future 
by Mike Ridenour StaH Reporter 

Accompanied by two of next years captains, Bob Golic and Jerome Heavens, Head Football Coach Dan Devine spoke to some 60 students last night in the Grace Hall pit. 
Devine, talking mostly about last years team, attributed the slow start of last years football team to two things. The first concerned the loss of four expected starters over the summer, he said. The letdown of not having those players com­bined with the lack of tough hitting to avoid injuries were the reasons Devine gave for the slow begin­ning. 
Devine blamed a lack of com­munications between the pressbox and the sidelines for Heavens failure to gain a thousand yards. Heavens had gained his goal but the correct information didn't reach the sidelines from the pressbox, he stated. Devine, thinking Heavens needed eight more yards had the ball given to the junior fullback on the next play. When Heavens lost ten yards, rather than risking injury, Devine said he substituted for Heavens thinking he needed 18 more yards. 
A National Championship pro­gram will be held May S at the Athletic and Convocation Center, he said, adding' that students are invited to attend. The program will follow a banquet, but due to limited seating, the students may not attend this part of a 21/1 hour celebration. 
Devine praised Fr. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice President, as being responsible for the "most honest and best program in the country." He also said that college football is "the best game in the world.'' 
Next years team, including the recruiting and schedule, was the focal point of questions by the students. Devine said the first five_ games on next years schedule would be very rough with Missouri, the opening game, singled out as the team that "has had more upsets than any other school in the last 20 years." Devine also said the Michigan game has received 
tremendous  attention  from  the  
Wolverine fans.  
The  subject  of  recruiting  was  

brought up several times. Devine shied away from the subject but mentioned recruiting was more 
Ford contests Carter's ability 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Former President Gerald R. Ford referred to himself as a candidate last night when he said any Republican presidential contender, himself in­cluded, could do a better job than President Carter. 
In a speech prepared for a nationwide hookup of Republican fund raising dinners, Ford said the record of the Democratic admin­istration so far is giving the GOP a new lease on life. 
"The fastest way to pump new life into the Republican Party is to turn the country over to the Democrats for a while,·' Ford said. ''The longer we are out, the better we look." 
"And I say 'we'empathetically," Ford added. "The quality and experience of any Republican can­didate -Howard Baker, George Bush, John Connally, Bob Dole, Ron Reagan, or Jerry · surpasses unquestionably the leadership we currently have." 
The six men Ford named as candidates are among the leading contenders being mentioned for the 
1980 Republican presidential nom­
ination. 
Although it is no secret Ford is keeping a watchful eye on the political situation leading toward 1980, this was the first time he publicly referred to himself as a candidate. 
None of the others he named has announced as a candidate, but all except Baker, who as Senate minor­ity leader has a built in support staff, have formed political commit­tes. 
Ford, who spoke in Los Angelos, was one of the keynoters in a 14-city network of fundraising din­ners expected to gross more than $3 million for Republican causes. 
Sharing the spotlight with Ford in Los Angelos was Connally, a former Democratic governor of Texas and Treasury Secretary in President Richard Nixon's admin­istration. 
Reagan, former California gov­ernor who ran Ford a close race for the 1976 GOP presidential nom­ination, shared the podium in Chicago, the other anchor city, with Bush, the former party chairman, CIA director and envoy to China who was national chairman of the dinners. 
Baker addressed a sellout dinner in Houston, and Dole, Ford's running mate in 1976, had a packed house in Detroit. 
Reagan attacked the Carter ad­ministration, particularly the pres­ident's recent overseas trip. 
"Rolling down to Rio or dropp1ng in on an African state, even one that isn't run by Cubans, falls short of a priority rating in view of our current domestic problems,'' Reagan said. 
Saz sisters to give music recitals 
Howard Saz, professor of biolo­gy, will have two daughters giving music recitals this weekend at Notre· Dame. Junior Wendy Saz will give a cello recital tomorrow at 
8:15 p.m. in the Library Auditori­um. Senior Marjorie Saz will perform a violin recital Sunday at 
2:30 p.m., also in the Library Auditorium. The sisters are music majors at Indiana University School of Music in Bloomington, IN. Both recitals are open to the public. 


T4LENT 4UDITIDNS 
** 

SIX FL4GS SHOWS '78 
Suddenly, it's you out the~e. Wow! And why not? All we ask is that you be good at what you do. Whatever that might be. If you are, you could land a spot in one of our professionally produced shows-new this season at Six Flags Over Texas Six Flags Over Georgia, Six Flags Over Mid-America and Astroworld. 
We're looking for the following people to fill spring, summer and fall casts. 
SINGERS-Popular and Country & Western • DANCERS • VARIETY ACTS • BANJO & GUITAR PLAYERS • GROUPS.,... Country &Western, Dixeland. Bluegrass &Barbershop (no rock group positions available) 
For complete information and a 1978 audition schedule, pick up a Six Flags Audition Brochure at your Student Placement Office. 
AREA AUDmONS 
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA Wednesday, April12 -1 :00 p.m. Indiana University-Memorial Union-State Room East 
Registration will begin 30 minutes prior to announced audition time. 
Six Rags, Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. 
SIX FLAGS® 
Over Texas, Dallas/Ft. Worth • Over Georgia, Atlanta • Over Mid-America, St. Louis • Astroworld, Houston 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*'
*' 
* 
* 
* 
*' 
* 
* 
* 
* 
. . '


t**'* 
widespread this year. One recruit that was mentioned by Devine wa~ Bob Crable, a linebacker from Cincinnati's Moeller High School. Devine said he was a fine player coming from good academic school. 
Heavens and Golic also an­swered questions. Heavens said the Missouri game would be the big game for him since many of his friends, "too many," are Missouri fans. 
Golic, a junior linebacker, was asked when he thought Notre Dame had the gam~ won against Texas. Golic responded "When I saw the Texas fans starting to leave." 
Devine asked the students to get fired up when the season begins next year. "I want all of you on the field to greet the team in the Missouri game," he said. 
Devine, speaking about next season, brought up the instance of Dave W aymer accepting to switch to defense. Waymer said, "All I want is another championship ring." The head coach said. "This kind of attitude, plus the students' support, equals an unbeatable combination." 
Chem lab repaired 
by Dan Letcher 
Repairs to damage from a fire on Jan 28 in a third floor lab in the Chemical Engineering building were completed before break, ac­cording to John Moorman, assist­ant director of Maintenance. 
Daniel J. Pasto, professor of chemistry, said the cause of the fire was a failure in a device controlling the temperature of his experiment, which was in the lab. He added that there is no chance of a second fire because of th·~ addition of a circuit breaker which turns off the appara­tus if the temperature rises too far. Moorman, who was in charge of clean-up and. repair work, said, "Generally speaking, problems have been taken care of. AU.ru.oble and residue have been cleaned up. The lab be111ch where th.;: fire originated ha.s been replaced, the window frames rebuilt, windows and the place: have been painted." 
The experiment has been recon­structed, Pasto said, and is back in operation, although it has been set back about two months. He com­mented, "I'm very pleased with the repairs. The lab looks much better than it did before the fire." He added that most of the damage was caused by smoke and water and the fire was confined to the lab bench. 
The cause of the fire, which was initially unc•~rtain, has been deter­mined as a mechanical failure in 
the temperature controller on a salt 
bath used in the experiment. Pasto 
said the failure caused the tem­
perature to shoot up "several 
hundred degrees." 
''The lab station has been rede­
signed to prevent fires or problems 
in the future," Moorman stated. 
An asbestos bench has replaced a 
wooden bench which originally . 
...

supported the apparatus, Pasto 
explained. A circuit breaker has 
also been installed to ensure that 
temperatures remain under a cer­
tain level. Pasto said the experi­
ment was now "failsafe." 
Moorman said that with the new 
additions and further safety protec­
'tion, the laboratory is in better 
condition than before the fire. Final 
damage and repair costs are not yet 
available, he stated. 
Panel discussion to conclude WOW 
The final panel discussion of Women's Opportunity Week will take place todav at 3 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's.J The discussion, "Facts of the {11jon-Working Mother," will be conducted by Bonnie Foley, Ann Milligan, Molly Ried, and Char­lotte· Whittaker, all non-working 
We offer the finest in men'~ hair cutting 
Only 5 minutes 
[d!I~]
from campus 
277-1691
Tues. & w-ed. 8:30;6:30 
272-0312 
Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 
54533 Terrace Lane 

: ~ The Observer 
ar. independent newspaper serving the notre dame and saint mary's community 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions eNid letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. • · 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor 
Barb Langhenry 

Executive Editor Rosemary Mills 
Editorial Editor Phil Cackley 
Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor 
Mike Lewis 

News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien 
Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Box Q 

Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Friday, April 7, 1978 
Editorial Policy 
AU letters and columns mut be typed. The aame, address, and phone number of the author must be lndaded, and the letter or column must be lllgDed. Letters or colamns received which are Illegible or unsigned wiU not be printed. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions for gnunmatJca.l errors, length and WJ~~ge, without changing the meaning. U the corrections are enenslve, The Observer wiU contact the author. 
The Observer also reHl'Vee the rtaht to pnted belf apiBt libel and slander salta by edltlq llbeloaa ad lllaacleroa statements made In letters or columna. Ia neh cues, the lllltiiH wiD be contacted and asked to either 11pprove the revlaloa or rewrite his views. 
Distasteful or openly prejudiced letters wDI DOt be printed. U The Observer feels that this Is the cue, the author wiU be contacted. The Observer also reserves the right to hold letters criticizing The Observer untU the author Is contacted. 
Open thank you letters will be accepted only Ifthe author bas no other means of contacting the pen10118 mentioned; or If the topic Is of Interest to the public • 
~Y, PII?&IJ! I ARE YOV K/00/N&? 
/JEU,SEE 'lOll MJ6HT8tA LJT­8/LLJONS IN U.S. AIO 
Ar 71IE HfltfAN Tl£ LATE. I'VE CAN HAN6 ON THE 
RJfJ(T5 BAN­60T 7D [X) saw: Oi/TCIJf1E! YOU CAN'T 

QLET, VICTOR! LASTM!Ntrm BCUEVE THE /.96TH5 
/.088Y/Ne•. SO'rlE (J)()NTR/ES 60
I 70/ 
~ A/J()(JL! 010 >f)(} EVER a.E.4R. lfP THOSE Nll5TY MtlssA­
CRE RUMORS? 
s e riousIy,\foI k s!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Where the Dollar Went Wrong 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiia r t bu c hw a I d 
WASHINGTON •• I've been gi­
ving a lot of thought lately to the 
dollar. Depending on what paper 
you read, the dollar is sick, 
sagging, sinking or collapsing un­
der its own weight. 
"It wasn't always like that. For 
years after world war II, the dollar 
commanded respect in every part 
of the world. It was the golden age 
for Americans and we were sought 
after, flattered, admired and se­
duced by people dealing in less 
vaunted currencies. None of us 
ever dreamed that some day the 
dollar would be treated in Europe 
and Japan as a terminal case. 
What went wrong? I discussed. this the other day with Alain, a French friend, who believes the loss of confidence in the dollar started shortly after the war ended. 

He told me, "It wasn't the dollar we were so interested in at that time as American cigarettes, nylon stockings and Hershey Bars. If you recall, back then the Europeans were much more interested in bartering for those items than they were in aquiring money. We were perfectly wiling to continue taking your cigarettes, nylons and Hersh­ey bars in exchange for lodging, food and favors. But your govern· ment forced the dollar on all of us, and we took in so many of them 
P.O. 
BOXQ 
IQHY, LA5T YPAR, PRESI­OCNTMARaJ5 OF THE 
~u~ms~mw ____,_
1
R5llJf?ING IJEMOCRACI 
A MZI< lJERJR£ 7HE 
IJ£AIJUNE.! OF COU!?SE., 
IT IJJORJ<. "­
HI. 
MON, I'M.. 
over the years that finally we said, 'Enough is enough.' " 
Are you trying to say that i fthe Americans had stuck to cigarettes, nylons and Hershey bars the dollar wouldn't be in trouble today?" 
"Of course. Europeans have an insatiable appetite for cigarettes, nylons and Hershey bars. But when you have seen one dollar, you've seem them all. 
"We were willing to go on forever giving you anything you wanted if you had stuck to barter­ing. But your leaders insisted that the only answer to communism was to flood our countries with dollars. What you forgot is that Europeans 
have  always  had  more  faith  in  
chocolate  than  we  have  had  in  
our money."  

"Yet Alain, there is a' flaw in your argument. The Europeans started making their own cigaret­tes, nylons and candy bars after the war. We would have had to devalue ours as your production increased." 
"We only went into the cigar­ette, nylon and chocolate bar business after our sources for these goods dried up. In Germany, France and Italy you discouraged your Gis from using cigarettes for currency. You told them if they waved cigarettes or nylons under 
Fencers 
deserve attention, too 
Dear Editor, 
Evidently the Observer doesn't think there is much to winning a national championship -that is, if it is a "minor sport" championship like fencing. 
They must figure that there are no real athletes on the team, no great skill or training req.uired. just a bunch of clods hacking at each other with iron rods. They must think a national championship in fencing to be a title of ineptitude, something inevitable for any school above the academy for the retarded and disabled. 
Does the Observer protest that it holds no such repugnant views? Then explain to me, why else should I have to turn to the second page of sports in the March 29th Observer before noticing that our fencers have won their second straight national title? What other reasons explain why an article about Kentucky got top priority over the fencers? Kentucky! Have you forgotten that the Observer is "an idependent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's," not Kentucky? 
I am not a member of the fencing team, nor am I a particularly rabid fan of fencing, but I do participate in another minor sport and appreci­ate the significance of a national championship. A national cham­pionship in any sport, from fencing to football, is a tremendous accom­plishment, requiring long hours of 
hard  work  and  superb  athletic  
ability.  
That fencing is  not  as  great  a  

draw as football or basketball should not detract from the credit and recognition they deserve, espe· dally in their own newpaper. Unfortunately this snub was almost predictable, symptomatic of a general attitude. 
Hopefully this gross oversight (and my exaggerated ravings) will help the Observer to recognize this attitude and will awaken them to the fact that excellence in any form deserves to be applauded. 
MJcbael Padden 
our noses they would be considered 
ugly americans. But we never 
thought that way. A carton of 
cigarettes, a pair of nylons, or a 
Hershey bar with almonds in it is 
something a person never forgets.' 
"Would you advise the United 
States to get off the dollar kick and 
go back to trading in those particu­
lar items again?" 
"It couldn't hurt. But I would 
stay away from the low tar and 
nicotine cigarettes because Euro­

peans like their tobacco stron.'(. 
And you might substitute panty 
hose for nylon stockings?" 
"What about Hershey bars?" 

"I wouldn't mess with them. Don't forget, we are very strong on tradition." 
"It could be the solution," I told Alain. 'God knows, it worked for us after the war. We've been so blinded by our economists that we have forgotten the things that really count with people. Perhaps if American tourists filled up their suitcases with panty hose and chocolate the dollar would be king again." 
Alain said, "Its a little late, but it is worth a try. The gnomes of Switzerland might scream, but I don't know one frenchman who would not rather have a pound of Hershey kisses than a solid bar of gold.'' 
Editor's Note: While the student 
body Is proud of all the teams that 
represent Notre Dame, they show 
more interest in basketball so It receives top priority [as does football in the fall.) The Observer recognizes the outstanding accom­plishments of the fencing team and so It wu given a larger spread on the inside page. We are sorry the back page Is not bigger but the fencing feature on the back page of Wednesday's paper show a con­cern for all teams and athletes at Notre Dame. 
Say it isn't so 
Dear Editor, 
Say it isn't so Digger! I thought surely Bill Jauss in last Tuesday's Chicago Tribune misquoted you as saying, before the Arkansas game, "Win or lose. I just don't like a consolation game. It's unfair to the kids and to the fans. Plus, we're at a disadvantage because we are Notre Dame. You"re not playing a consolation game. You're playing Notre Dame. That's the way it is for us every time we play." 
But no\Y. last Wednesday's Ob­

server's garbled version of the 
same makes me think you perhaps 
did make that ridiculous statement 
. and in public! What gives? Were 
you in an understandable state of 
shock after the Duke defeat, or do 
you really accept the popular 
mythology that every opponent of a 
ND team naturally plays its best 
because "to defeat Notre Dame 
would make its season?" 
Oh, the burdens of success! Oh, the cares of high places! Such commoners as Arkansas and Day.­ton will never know, in their undying desire,· to make their seasons by beating Notre Dame! 
Do you really believe the ND labors under a disadvantage to every opponent it faces because it is Notre Dame? Did you pity poor UCLA over the past IS years for similar disadvantages? And though I will concede your right to oppose consolation games on prin­ciple, from what mythology derives your assumption that while consol­ation games mean ncar nothing to Notre Dame. (a victory would have consoled me), Arkansas of neces· sity must view the game as a chance at a great prize? After all, they're playing Notre Dame! 
R.J. Lordi 


------------------------------------~... 
-

Friday, April 7, _19_7_s________JthloLL]eiiL-.JoiiE.!b-s3111
e~rv~e~r__~7

Letters to a Lonely God 
Whateuer Happened to Liking? 


Rev~rend Robert Griffin 
Whatever happened to Uldng? Whatever happened to Uldng as a noun and as a verb, and as a word simply expressing how you feel about someone? In the debased currency of modern language, love has become the falsest coin thrown down on the counter of life. Dick Cavett loves Gloria Swanson, Orson Welles, Groucho Marx and the Happy Hooker. Sammy Davis, Jr. loves Johnny Carson. Sammy Davis, Jr, also loves Frank Sinatra, Peter Lawford, Aretha Franklin, Dean Martin, Donny and Marie, Sonny and Cher, the Harlem Globe Trotters, and the state of Israel. Tom Snyder loves Tom Snyder. Everybody loves somebody except Richard Nixon who keeps a hate list. Hating is the only mood left after you have stopped loving. Whatever happened to liking? 
A kid recently complained: "The guys in my section don't love me." It sounded as though he were saying: "In the circum­stances of battle, when the cannons are roaring, they would refuse to lay down their lives as my friends." 
"Good God," I thought to myself, "I don't love this kid either. I'd lend him money; I'd let him hug my mother. But if the ship were going down, I wouldn't insist that he take the only life preserver.'' Sadly enough, the kid would expect the only life preserver to be offered; otherwise, for him, love would have failed between us, though we are practically strangers owing each other nothing more than sincerity. From me, from his roommate, from the guys across the hall, he needs the assurance: 

"When the iceberg hits, Murphy, you take my place in the boats." Otherwise the friendship would seem to him senseless as mud. 
Liking, I think, is the fun plrt of loving. For example, you must always love God, though for days at a time, it may happen, you don't really like Him. On the days you are disenchanted,' prayer can be tedious, like taking tea with a maiden aunt who bores you. The tea she serves is tepid, the biscuits are burned, and the conversation centers on dull and distant missionaries who need hymn books for the conversion of aborigines. You endure the family ritual because maiden aunts with their droning voices do not survive forever. They just seem to live forever, and you really hope they might. God does not even pretend to be mortal, which is all right, as long as heaven doesn't tum out to be a tiresome place. 
On the days when, in addition to loving God, you also like Him-on the days when you don't have wakes to attend, and earthquakes are not toppling tenements in Guatemala -then the prayers rise up like frisbees, never touching the earth again. Then God is lilre a game that schoolboys play when they swim. You ride on His presence like a surfer; you drift on the tides of His love. You mount the backs of dolphins, full of grace, who plunge you to depths full of mystery, and then back into the white-capped pathw~tys of the sun. 
Love as a verb that describes the leanings of the heart is as all-embracing as a cave that tourists get lost in. ''Love everyone,'' Jesus says. 
"O•~ay, sure," I say, "but does that include Hitler?'' 
"It includes every ma111, without excep­tion," Jesus says. "Loving your friends is easy, and I preach a tough religion. Even Republicans love their friends." 
"Does it include loving my neighbor's wife?" I ask wickedly. 
"Loving her, yes," say!; Jesus patiently. "Being in love with her can get you a punch in the mouth." 
"Must I lay down my liJfe for my friend?" "Only if you want to," Jesus says. "Only if you love your friend that much. Nobody is commanding you to lay down your life. If you had to do it -if you owed your friend your life -it would no longer be love, but justice." Lov'e has its own theology. What is also needed is a theology of liking. In the affairs of a religious community, nothing is more painful than to dine or pray with a fellow who loves you without liking you. 
The fellow would never tum you in to the Communists; he'd never let them give you ice water enemas, if he could take your place. Yet, disliking you as he does, he's expecting every moment he spends with you to be subtracted from his purgatory. 
Not even God could insist that he must like you. I think God should toughen up the commandments to include liking. 
Sometimes, being loved is more than you can endure. Liking is as much emotion as you need to get through the day comfort­ably. Friends who insist that you love and be loved can be too hasty, like a waiter who rushes you through hors d'oeuvres. ·Love, as a main course of the friendship, should scarcely be spoken of, or never mentioned at all, before the brandy is served and the cigars are lighted. 
Instead, someone says that he or she loves you, and then waits for you to stand on your head. You can answer: "I love you as much as Sammy Davis, Jr. loves Johnn)lt Carson." If your friend will settle for something as cheap as a talk-show word, then the friend doesn't understand love. Love wears a crown of thorns and has nails in its hands. It wears a gentle smile that puts loving you and lildng you together, and it never mentions where it is going. It never mentions that it is enduring a cross because it doesn't want to crush you as though a rock had been laid against the rloor of your heart. 

cjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjtrcjfcjfcjfcj~Fcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjfcjf 
The Music 
Jazz has recently acquired a popular following in the United States; certainly it is a part of the Notre Dame music scene (the fine Keenan Review stage orchestra and Wednesday's Jazz in the Nazz). It is truly an original American artform; one of the few Americans can claim as their own. It's sad to think that only now it's becoming popular in America, because it has always been very popular in Europe and other corners of the world. Jazz remained more or less obscure in the States because the music grew primarily out of the Black American experience, which in itself was obscured. However, a fortune in good music is being re-discover­ed as a new school of jazz enthusiasts attempt to re-create the mellow sounds of the near-lost, early jazz. 
Now that jazz has expanded to include rock rythms in the so-called jazz-rock fusion, jazz records are selling by the hundred thousands (not bad for jazz), and jazz audiences are swelling to large numbers. The music has come to the point 

where it touches all of us.-Rarely can one hear a song where there isn't a saxophone playing a lush jazz solo weeping the loss of a lover, or where a hom section isn't blasting behind a vocalist, typical ofthe big 
band era. Steely Dan, Joni Mitchel, Earth, Wind and Fire, Grover Washington, Billy Joel, and Chicago are just a few of today's top performers who play music laced with jazz. 
Jazz is dirty, exuberant, sometimes downright nasty, and always singing an American experience. We know about this music at Notre Dame and we've been celebrating it for 19 years with the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
lobotomy by pat byrnes 


The Festiual 
When the snow begins to thaw and Northern Indiana sends in its fickle version of spring, get ready -because good times are in the making. 
Spring in South Bend signals the coming of the Collegiate Jazz Festival, a jamboree of the finest music:, brimming with excitement and energy. For 20 years now, a small, little known grl[)up of Domers have put uncountable hours into the production of what has become tll:te oldest and most prestigious collegiate jazz festival in the world(that's right, world). A year in the making, the festival takes place this weekend and surely it should not be missed. 
Friday and Saturday, April 7th and 8th, Stepan Center will explode with jazz. The Friday evening, Saturday afternoon, and Saturday evening sets are billed with the premier college jazz g1roups selected from taped auditions submi1tted by the nation's top college jazz organizations. The festival also brings in nationally-renowned jazz musicians to witness the extravaganza and judge the quality of the music. Outstand­ing talent, as determined by the judges, is awarded gifts and plaques in ~cclaim of its CJf performance and future potential. Past CJF's produced talent -like Bob James, David Sanl;lom. Dee Dee Bridgewa­ter and James Pankow. 
This year, the judges will jam for the last set on Friday night, and the Bunky Green Quintet will close the festival Saturday evening. The Green Quintet is one of the hottest groups around and the list ofjudges is impressive: Hubert Laws, Lew Tabackin, John Lewis, Larry Ridley, Louie Bellson and Dan Morgenstern. 
Laws, el numero uno on jazz flute, will make yet another appearance at CJF. Lew 
'-

Tabackin, the genius of the Akiyoshi/Tab­actin Big Band, makes his first appearance at CJF, bringing with him years of experience as principle tenor sax and flute soloist with many ofthe greats, notably the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Big Band and Doc Severinsen's "Tonight Show" orche!'tra. Former backbone and inspiration of the Modem Jazz Quintet, John Lewis offers his unmatched piano work backed with 20 plus years as a top jazz headliner. Larry Ridley is cu,rrently Professor of Jazz at Rutgers University. He has played with the best and done plenty of fine solo work for a number ofyears. On drums, Louie Bellson has been the sparkle of many a session with a number of jazz greats, including Duke Ellington, Count Basie and Oscar Peterson. Completing the judges list, Critic Dan Morgenstern, widely recognized authority on jazz, appears at CJF for what mustbehis llthor12thyear. He's been to many jazz festivals over the years and 
describes CJF as one of the finest. 
The credentials of the college bands are equally impressive. The Wisconsin Con­Sf ··atory of Music will be re-appearing for what should be another command perfor­mance. MIT, Ohio State and Northwestern have always brought good bands into Stepan -they'll be back too. When the music gets cookin' this Friday, you'll want to be a part of it. A pass for the three events -Friday night 7:30pm; Saturday afternoon 12:15 pm; and Saturday night, 6:30pm. is $7.50. Individual tickets can be purchased, but don't miss out on the bargain of a festiv2! pass -good times are insured. 
t"Vegetable Buddies invites all musicians to a jam session to be held after the· Festival events Saturday night.) 

-
' 
... _., 
I 

t:~BL._...Jt~b11ea....JooLib.._..sl!lle~~.rv_I)gaLLr________F_r_id_av_, April 7, 1978 
Organ to get second dedication 
Six Notre Dame students will 
participate in the second dedicatory 
program for the new Sacred Heart 
Church organ at 7:15pm, Sunday. 
Also participating in the vesp_er 
services will be the Chapel Chotr, 
three soloists and the string quar­
tet. 
The students of Sue Seid-Mairtin 
University organist, will present 
the Shubler Chorale Preludes of 
Johann Sebastian Bach. Among 
the composer's four collections of 
organ chorales, the Shubler group 
holds a unique place. They are 
arrangements of arias or duets with 
obligato instrumental part~ app~ar-. 
ing in cantatas. Must~ologtsts 
believe the composer mtended 
making them favorite movements 
of organists. . 
Each of the six movements wtll 
be heard in both the original 
cantata form and the organ chorale 
Volunteers needed to assist SU '78 
The Student Union Social Com­
wission need volunteers to assist in 
planning next year's activities. 
On the job training will be 
provided in such areas as financial 
mangement, publicity, group or­
ganization and especially social 
interaction. 
The Commission's responsibili­
ties include the Nazz Homecoming, 
Student Players, Darby's and mini­
concerts. The group also plans to 
co-sponsor happy_ hours, dances 
and parties with the residence halls 
and other student organizations. 
Students who wish to become 
involved should contact the Com­
mission at the Student Union 
offices or call John Bonacci at 
272-5486. 

I 

prelude form. Also, each of the six 
pairs wiii be preceded by the 
playing or singing of the chorale on 
which it is based. 
Richard Collman of South Bend 
will perform "Wachet auf, ruft uns 
die Stimme" from cantata 140, 
followed by "Wo soli ich fliehen 
hin" from a last cantata by Gerard 
Jacobitz of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Other selections include "Wer nur 
den lieban Gott Lasst walten" by 
Kendall Rafter of Alexandria, 
"Meine Seele erhebt den Herren" 
by Christian Rich, South Bend , 
"Ach bleib bei uns, Herr Jesu 
Christ" by Dennis Blubaugh, Ber­
lin, Pa., and "Kommst du nun, 
Jesus vom Himmel herunter" by 
Mary Ann de Ia Garza, South Bend. 
Also scheduled for performance 
at the Sunday evening service wiii 
be a newly commissioned presenta­
tion of "Psalm 118," by Paul Manz 
of Edina MN. This is a psalm 
setting proper for the Easter sea­
son for choir, congregation and 
organ, and was commissioned for 
the dedication program by the 
Notre Dame Chapel Choir. 
Ball selected SMC valedictorian 
Valerie Ann Ballhas been named valedictorian of the class of 1978 at Saint Mary's. Ball, who will receive a B.S. degree in nursing, has a cumulative grade point average of 
3.985 on a 4.0 scale. 
She is the identical twin of Vicwria Marie Ball, also a senior in the nursing program. Victoria ranks second in this year's gradu­ating class with a cumulative average of 3.956. 
Valerie and Victoria Ball are the daughters of Dr. and Mrs. James 
B. Ball of Bellevue, Ohio. 
The 131st commencement of Saint Mary's will take place on Saturday, May 20, 1978. 

Jazz Festival starts tonight 

CTW 

"'-' -ct~~~~tur7m,~·· or 
Tfill~~ . •· . 
We could add an entire cat~log of diseases too, and the very real. danger of living in a country where you are less than welcome by the people tn power. A Third World Country. Every one is a land of constant hardship. And every one the source of countless rewards for Maryknoll Missioners. 
What greater reward could there be than to share the love of Christ with _t~e distressed and oppressed, to help them help themselves, temporally and spmt­ually. Here, you can help nourish the starving, shelter the homeless, rest~r~ the dignity of man to these, your neighbors. You share their cultures and trad1t1ons, grow as they grow. You give meaning to their lives. and they to yours. 
To be a Maryknoll Missioner is an adventure of the spirit. It is a privilege. It is, literally, the opportunity of a lifetime. Send us the coupon or call toll free (800) 431·2008. 
----------------~
..-----ND21
l Mary~o~~!L~I~~,~~~f..~people l 
I I
DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONSI Maryknoll Missioners • Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 I 
I ~~"a's~ a~=~~ me information about becoming a Marykn'oll I 
Sister

l Na:~est ---Brol~er____ __ -----------_ _ 
11

I Address_ ~-~-------~--.. ------I 
I City _ _ _________ State .......... ___ Zip Code. I 
I Age .... _ .... Phone Class---~-­
1 College ----~---·---Year of Graduation 
L-----------------­
that it was." 
Performing with the chapel choir 

will be Fr. Patrick Maloney, tenor; 
Susan Groeschel, soprano; and 
Joan Martel, alto. The string 
quartet features Adrian Bryttan 
and Julia Smiley, violin, Matthew 
Kennelly, viola, and Deborah Da­
vis, cello. 
The dedication programs will 

continue each Sunday evening through May 7. Noted organist will be joined by Notre Dame vocal and instrumental groups. 
Yonto to speak 

at Rockne affai[ 
The annual Knute Rockne Mem­
orial Mass and Breakfast will be 
held Sunday, in the Dillon Hall 
Chapel and the South Dining Hall. 
Joe Yonto, defensive coordinator 
for the football team, will be th~ 
speaker. 
The event honors the former 
student and football coach who 
died in an airplane crash March 31, 
1931. Following the breakfast, 
there will be a brief prayer service 
in Highland Cemetery where 
is buried. 
Reservations may be made by calling Martha Stockdale, 236-2610, days, and Paul Hessling, 234-8279, evenings. 
Volleyball Club establishes plans 
Last night the Notre Dame wo­men's Volleyball Club met to discuss their future plans. Next year competition will include Saint Mary's, DePauw, Tri-State, and Butler. Students unable to attend the meeting who are still interested in participating in the club should contact Beth Larocca at 7968. The season will run from early Septem­ber unitl the second week in November. 
,....~~ ,, .,___ -. ....~~ 1u•1~~f,' •· · ,\lO. fV • ColiC. lla1illl 
;a951n:o,~ S:'M~1.:"3Js. calltll-~ ®~' 11 m ~;rc,,, ~,~~ ~~M011 ·sw--· ~ 
~-Cl\\£.£.\\ uui'I'V. ~ 
,~~ OPPO\\l '"'' '· ~ 
JP\an.foo k PAR\8~~~Jf )ft. $7 " .& 'UOJ AJ'Il(•''•"· ~~ ~~ 
~ 8JU11\l C1&1is1s.IOIE1lllt&l. ~~encn-t•«" "OUJS '"'"'t<11 --·0. Furn'
WAHTE · lrv-Colr
lonft 

~ ~ • in~~~~~~-\ronJtS ._,t~ Pr•''"t''' Poor"ouslft\1 c~>-1HEDR" 
~ ~~ eroadwav.HV "~,gno;ac,,t,ce lOWpay ns­
~~ ~­
d~tone o1 tf' o_d..~~.r-~~=·  ..8nuftt •J olRewaruS  
~••~ ·~~~~~~·  111 ~  
~ ~Tne amall~:nc  ,. llflte.  

'M".~~·:::t T,~~~~,.~dl ;Well"• ~fl\6~ -~ ~~~.Piel8··-~ ma ~~awan?.."U:"T~m· 
.____ ~~:'r. :u~f:.',~ r:•ut~~~~ 
·< I'.KERS"" nn panI•. Ar~~o<mantl: an~, IIIJPOinl·
•· R09t' Kl · nonol , Audll1on 
·,.,.. wrll~~ 1696.ll' -~. JS~ ~~IV <:"!!!1 \IC venw~~.:::. cos· 
Many ot the nauon·s top collegi­ate jazz bands and combos will participate in the annual Collegiate Jazz Festival at Notre Dame's Stepan Center today and tomorrow. The groups will compete for prizes before a panel of noted judge!., each renowned for superior talents in as jazz musicians. 
The judges include Louis Bell­son, drums; Lew Tabackin, alto sax, Hubert Laws, flute; John Lewis, piano; Larry Ridley, bass, and Dan Morgenstern, critic and editor for Downbeat Magazine. Each of the judges has been a 
consistent  leader  national  polls  
selecting  outstanding  per­ 
formers.  

The festival begins Friday with a jazz colloquium at 2 p.m., which is open to the public without charge, and will continue that night at 7:30. 
n

oFURNI'.' 
PERIOVER Q8J.
;~bRcE}t;W.
QRIEHTI'.L RU(. 
"THE MAl'.
LH 
GI>-LHUI. 
~ 
,... A.·s:TOR ( 
ES'T />.'TES ;
nau• ~ cu•t A'hlnt"' o "' 
There will be two performances on 
Saturday, one at 12:15 p.m. and the 
other at 6:30p.m. 
Festival passes are on sale in the Student Union offices in LaFor­tune. Tickets for individual per­formances will be available at Stepan Center for the Friday and Saturday night shows and for the Saturday afternoon performance. 
The judges' jam, traditionally a 

highlight of the festival, will cap off 
Friday night's show, beginning at 
11:30. 
Hesburgh to say mass in crypt 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. University president, will celebrate a special Mass in the Crypt of Sacred Heart Chur~h Sunday at 7 
p.m. The Mass will initiate activ­ities of One Earth /Week, which is sponsored by th~ International Student Organization of Notre Dame. 
After the Mass. Albert Wimmer, professor of German and former director of the Innsbruck Program, will speak about the "East-West Relations after t~ League of Democrat«: Communist Manifest." 
The lecture will begin at 8 p.m. in the Architecture Building Aud­itorium. All are invited to attend . 
SMC students to present talks 
I 

Three Saint Mary's students will participate in the Third Intercol· legiate Conve.ntion for Research today and tomorrow in LaFortt~ne Student Center at Notre Dame . 
Margaret Brittan will pres~nt research today on "Homosexuality and Contemporary Society'!'. Terease Chin's paper will be on "The Tong Society in San Fra?­cisco" and Mary Ellen Cox wtll present research on "Contempor­ary Problems in Chicano Society" tomorrow: 
Today's · session will run from 3:30-4:30 p.m . and tomorrow's session will be from 2-4 p.m. 
Michael R. McKee, chairman of 
Saint Mary's department of socio-. 
logy, will be the discussant for ' 
Section XI entitled "Family Social­
ization and Social Changes" at 
tomorrow's session. 
Castellini, 

Veraldi win [continued from page 1] campus that late at night," Rit­tenhouse said. "We probably would have woken somebody up and lost their vote anyway." 
Commenting on the strain the 
she said, "Tuesday 
out cele­
'It's too good 
n I got back 


~ -~---~----------------------------~~~--~~~--~-­
9

Friday, April 7, 1978 , the observer 

''I LIKE LITE MORE THIN 
ILIKE REFS. MUCH MORE!' 
Tom Heinsohn Famous Basketball Coach 
~_ .._____ .., ____ .. ________.. ___,__.
C"'¥,' li ;t~1;1 .,,. '(' f1 (.1 ,,._I -~:\;Lt\ i -' --· .. -----· -.
---'-~---~----,....-· --=......... ......------.. ---------------. ........~--···· ~ ·-~ .. "'.,....-...... ·~ -.... _________________________, 
Friday, April 7, 1978
10 the observer 


Foreign troops hold Lebanese soil 
Beirut, Lebanon [API -At no time since the Korean War has a country had so many foreign armies serving on its soil as embattled Lebanon: nine by last count, or one soldier for every 30 Lebanese citizens. 
Lumped together, the foreign troops from Israel, Europe and the Arab countries would muster a standing force of some 90,000 fighters. Nor does this include 28 armed militias and Lebanese of ficial forces. 
The Lebanese government hopes to one day reassert its authority throughout the country -a dream also held by the average citizen. 
"There are too many armies," said Sikhne Awadch, a Moslem widow who fled to Beirut with her five children after Israel invaded southern Lebanon March 15 and drove out Palestinian guerrillas on the border. 
"They all want to draft my sons. If one goes with Saad Haddad an Israeli-backed Christian leader, we will not be safe with the Palesti­nians," the mother added. 
"If another goes with the Palesti­nians, we will not be safe with the Israelis. So, I will leave my sons here and hope for the best." 
After the Israeli thrust, right-wing Christian leader Camille Chamoun demanded to know "if this is a sovereign state or a whorehouse." 
Chamoun was commenting on the influx of several hundred Iraqi so-called "volunteers" into Le­banon through Syria whose avowed purpose was to aid Palestinian guerrillas resisting Israel in the south. 
Since then, the Lebanese govern­

Fb:k I J:tzz I Ebs I Co.rty I SU 
~--------~EW RELEASES_________IIIIr..
,.. 

Heart-Magazine Jethro Tull -Heavy Horses Wings -London Town Atlanta Rhythm Section ­Champagne Jam REO Speedwagon -You can Tune a Piano, But You Can't Tuna Fish! Jefferson Starship * Earth Average White Band 
Warmer Communications Jimmy Buffett* Son of a Son of a Sailor Journey -Infinity Robert Palmer * Double Fun Outlaws -Uve 
Ronnie Montrose* Open Fire 
Gordon  Ughtfoot  -Endless  
Wire  
Mary MacGregor  -In  Your  

Eyes Isley Brothers -Showdown Patti Smith -Easter Stanley Clarke -Modem Man Genesis -And Then There Were Three Jerry Garcia Band -Cats Under the stars barry Manilow-Even Now Bob Marley -Kaya 

compare our selection with any other record store! 
Monday .. Saturday: 10am -10pm Sunday: Noon -8pm ..P'="""ic~k-u_p_y_o_u_r-"!!f~re_e_c-opy of T~h-e-!!!R~iv_e_r_C~i-ty___,R....ev-i-ew­

every month at any of 200 locations throughout Michiana! 
Visit the River City Records 
SALE!
Booth at this weekend's 
Album Cover Mirrors $8.99
Collegiate Jazz Festival at 
Tour T-shirts $3.00
Stepan Center! 

1 $1.00 OFF!
I Any L.P. Or TapeI With This Coupon! 
I Now thru April 23! 
I lOne rnupon pcr pcr,on. Coupon' tlot valid for cuhmls
I ''' nn 
'ale item<,.) 

I River City Records I 50970 U.S. 31 North I South Bend A_-: 
I 277-4242 ~
I 3 miles North of campus 
I
I 
I 
I 
I
I 
I I 
I 
II 
---------------------------· 
ment has issued the strictest 
restrictions in its 32-year history on 
foreign entry into Lebanon. 

The largest armed forces in 
Lebanon belong to Israel and Syria. 
The Israelis number about 20,000. 
An estimated 25,000 Syrians form 
the bulk of the Arab League 
peacekeeping force which controls 
the ccasefirc imposed in Lebanon 
to end the 1975-1976 civil war. 

Three other Arab countries nom­
inally assist Syria in the peacekeep­
ing role -Saudi Arabia, the Sudan 
and the United Arab Emirates. 

When a cease-fire was declared 
March 21 in the Israeli thrust into 
the south. a United Nations interim 
force was dispatched into the area 
with 700 French soldiers, 700 
Norwegians, 252 Swedes and 120 
Iranians. 

Three more countries are ex­pected to contribute for a 4,000 man peacekeeping unit. Eight Pal· estinian factions arc operating in Lebanon. totalling an estimated 12,000 guerrillas allied to 10 Leb­anese leftist militias containing an estimated 5.000 fighters. 
Only two conservative Moslem militias are operating in Lebanon, with about I. 100 armed supporters. In the Christian camp. some 12.000 militiamen represent five separate factions. 

Carter holds bomb production 
WASHINGTON IAPI-President 
Carter has decided to postpone ­
but not cancel -production of the 
controversial neutron bomb. U.S. 
officials said late yesterday. 

The presidential decision will be 
convcvcd to North Atlantic Treaty 
Orga~i;.ation representatives in 
Brussels on Friday. these officials 
said. 

Neutron weapons are designed 
to inflict battlefield casualties with 
radiation while limiting blast 
damage. Although sometimes 
referred to as a bomb. the weapon 
is designed for usc as a warhead for 
the 81-milc range Lance missile 
and for howitzer shells that can be 
tired a distance of I 0-12 miles. 

The U.S. militafy wants the 
weapon as an equalizer against the 
possiblity of a tank attack in central 
Europe. where the Russians have 
an estimated 3-to-1 tank advan­
tage. The weapons would kill 
invading tank crews with radiation 
while saving civilian lives and 
property on the pcripher~· of the 
battlefield. its supporters say. 

Opponents of the weapon con­
tend it could make it easier to usc 
nuclear arms in a European con­
tlil'l. 

The sources. who asked not to be 
identified. emphasized that Car­
ter·~ decision did not mean the 
neutron bomb would never be 
produced by the United States. 

Possible production. they said. 
depended on future weapons nego­
tiations with the Soviet Union. 

Presumably. if the Russians made 
certain unspecified concessions, 
the United States would forego 
further work on the neutron bomb. 
Without revealing any details. 
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance 
touched on the immediacy of the 
decision in testifying earlier yester­
day before the House International 
Relations Committee. 

He said Carter would act soon 
and ".~hen I say soon. I mean very 
soon. 

West Germany and Britain had been encouraged to support the deployment of neutron bombs on the expectation that the United States would go ahead with produc­tion. Carter's decision may cause some embarrassment in those countries. 
Quiz show features Pilger 

Tomorrow evening at 7:30 
p.m. in the Little Theatre Professor Richard C. Pilger will moderate an ·Academic Quiz Show featuring top scholars from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 

~ 
Friday, April 7, 1978 
the observer 11 
Irish club sports make their mark 
by Greg Solman Associate Sports Editor 

Members of the Notre Dame Sailing Club take the term "du Lac" literally, and it ·seems some­
how quite appropriate that the freshman icebreaker held last weekend saw the advent of the best weather we've yet to see this year. Their boats skimming quickly along St. Joseph's Lake only enhanced the beauty of the day. 
The icebreaker gave would-be members of Notre Dame's Sailing Club a chance to participate in regatta. and get the feel of college competition. A regatta is sche­duled every weekend rom now on until graduation. This weekend, the team is slated to travel to Southern Illinois. 
Will do typing Neat, accurate Call: 287-5162 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc... typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287-4971 
typing done 
Reasonable rates Call 8086 

Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh and back for An Tostal Weekend. She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company! Help her take part In a true Irish party! Call 6734. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Resumes: $3.00 per page. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" 
ENVELOPE STUFFING SCHEMES EX, POSED 2 page report free. Practics, 2130-3A N.W. Fillmore, Corvallis, OR 97330 
Friday Night Fever! Hey! Hey! Hey! Thumbs up all you Logan Center Stud­ents! Come to the Fabulously Fun Logan Center 50's dance this Friday night, April 7th from 7:30-10:00 pm at the Logan Center Cafeteria. Dress up 50's style with Bobby Socks on feet or grease in hair! refreshments for everyone! 
Saturday Morning Fever! This Saturday is the first Saturday Recreation Period at Logan center after Spring Break. Remember Saturday Morning from 9:00 11:30. 
2-4 mo. old puppies need good home. 
FREE!!! Call 272-2520 after 3 pm. 
FOR RENT 

Walk to campus. Home close to Logan Center for rent this fall. Enough bedrooms for 5 or 6. Water included in rent. Furnished nice. Call 232-3815 after 5:00pm. 
FOR RENT plus salary in exchange for housekeeping work 4 days per week, to young married couple without children. Furnished 4 room apartment. Call 289-1264 or 289-3629. 
1 bedroom apartment to sublet for summer. Security, tennis ct., pool. Good terms. Call 288-7258. 
Fine houses in good neighborhoods (Portage and Angela area) Reasonable rents. For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto 234-6688. 
2 rooms for rent. Summer school. $40 per month. 233-1329. 
Two completely furnished houses for rent this summer -a couple blocks from campus, safe neighborhood. One four bedroom, one six bedroom, approx $100 per month. 277-3604. 
Furnished apartment. All private, 3 rooms up for married grad student. All utilities, near memorial hospital. NO RENT for helping 2 people in wheel­chairs. 232-9128. 
Plans are currently underway to purchase a number of new boats along with the Eagle Lake Yacht Club in Edwardsdburg, Michigan. It is hoped that the Notre Dame Club will be able to use the vessels in the spring and fall, and the Yacht Club will be able to use them in the summer. 
"This could turn out to be quite a benefit to the club," explained past-president Bill Kostoff, "in that sailing on Eagle Lake would give our team an alternative to St. Joseph's Lake. On St. Joe's, there is little "free air," and the winds are always shifting." 
Eight members of the Sailing Club are now gearing toward the April 22 Kennedy Cup to be held in 
Annapolis,  Maryland  on  Chesa­ 
peake  Bay.  Notre  Dame  and  
Michigan  were  the  two  teams  

selected from this midwest division to compete in the prestigious event. Other teams that have competed in the past have come from as far as University of Southern California and Orange County. 
"We must get together on one boat and learn each other's capabi­lities and limitaions," commented Kostoff, on the team's preparation. 
"This is where a team like Navy's has an advantage. They've drilled together before of necessity." 
Back on dry land again, the 
LOST: one Texas Instrument SR-11 calculator in or near LaFortune on the Wednesday before Spring break. Reward offered. Call 233-7213. 
Set of 2 keys found before break. Call Observer office to Identify. 
LOST: 1grey suit-pack containing suit, 1 pr slacks, 1 pr dress shoes, and 7 silk shirts. Left in c-1 lot on Tuesday afternoon. Please Call John at 3807. 
LOST: Class ring between guard house and Alumni before break. Reward. Call Dave 1582. 
LOST: orange ski gloves in green section at Bengal Bouts., Call Dave 1582. 
Lost: Texas instruments calculator (SR­51-11) from Hayes Healy. phone 3488. 
LOST: T.l. Calculator lost week before Spring break. Please call 7801 if found. 
LOST: taken or borrowed from ACC: One blue faced Seiko watch. Great Sentimen­tal value, so great Reward. Call 8833. 
LOST: Tape recorder from E line. Hefty reward. No questions. Call 3308. 
FOUND: Plaid cap 6992. 
FOUND: Gold watch with black band. Found Tues morning in Haggar lecture room. Contact Joe at 288-2688. 
LOST: Gold Wyler quartz watch from Flanner study room on March 15, 1978. Call Dave at 1170. 
Lose a key? A G M car key? I've got it. Call O.D. at 8395. 
Found a key with keys to Grace Hall. Probably lost during blizzard. Owner will have to identify key ring. Cali Bart 1078. 
LOST: Navy blue "tote" umbrella at Sr. Bar on Sr. Women's night. I have someone else's black umbrella. Please call me if you have mine. Alicia 8117. 
FOUND: A pair of wire-rimmed glasses in brown leather case ..Cali Bob at 1694. 
Lose a key? A G M key? I've got it for you. Call 0.0. at 8395. 
WANTED 

OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year-round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses 
paid, sightseeing. Free information ­write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA. 94704. 
Help Wanted, temporary part-time. Select your own hours. Great pay and short hours in public contact work explaining H.V.D. Programs to home owners. Call 234-3344 or 233-6939 leave message for Dick. 
2guys need ride to Chicago Friday April 
7. Call Mike 6186. 
WANTED: one ride to Chicago leaving Friday. Please call Ron 1516. 
Needed, 2girls for summer housemates. Call 4-1-4034. 
Lacrosse Team has started out its spring season and currently has a 1-2 record against the toughest of competition. 
In the first game of the season, Midfielder Mike Kinsella inter­cepted a clearing pass to score in overtime, giving the Irish a 5-4 victory over Colorado. 
Things didn't go so well against the Falcons of the Air Force Academy, traditionally one of the finest teams in lacrosse. They certainly proved that to the Irish, defeating them 18-1. Things went equally as bad against Bowling Green, as the Irish dropped that contest, 10-2. 
"Air Force was a very good team," commented John Gray, a member of this year's squad. ''They were well conditioned, and had talent stacked so deep it was difficult to know the first string from the fourth." 
This weekend the Lacrosse team will be home playing against Toledo (B Team) at 11:00 and Purdue (A Team) at 2:00 on Stepan Field. 
Rugby is also well underway, as the ruggers returned from their spring trip in Florida tanned and trained. After the return, the "B" team defeated the Chicago Lions at Chicago 7-4, when Joe Gill inter­cepted an errant pass and ran in for a "try" to pick up four points. 
Steve Gill the·n set up Mike The "A" Team, led by Tony 
Roohan's penalty kick for the Mendiola, split on their trip down 
determining three points. south, and lost to Chicago in their 
"The serum really played tough first meeting, 20-12. 
all day," commented Steve Gill. Play resumes for the Rugby 
"our backs controlled Chicago all Squad this Saturday, when the 
day with good hard tackling." Irish take on the Indianapolis Reds. 
Ted Robinson============================================================================================================== 
A Royal Repeat 
.cont. ============================:================================:============================================! AL West 
Geoff Zahn and Bombo ~Ri•,era. Granted, Adams had a .338 average in part-time duty but the Twins need every-day players. 
If Zahn and youngsters Paul Thormodsgard and Gary Serum can progress, then the Twins will be respectable. However, the future does not hold bright prospects for the Twin Cities. OAKLAND: Enough jokes about where this team is going to play. The biggest joke is the team itself. Rumor has it that thf~ league considered letting the A's bat fungo this year. 
In between court appearances, Charlie Finley acquired some decent players in the form of Dave Revering, Gary Alexander, Gary Thomasson, Dave Heaverlo, Steve Renko and Jim Essian. · 
But these acquisitions came at the expense of the A's three top pitchers, namely Vida Blue and relievers Pablo Torrealba and Doug Hair. 
As a result, Oakland may actually score some runs, but they will have a great deal of difficulty preventing them. Essian and Thomasson were the key acquisitions because they will plug up key holes in the middle, catcher and centerfield respectivGly, in a adequate fashion. But the A's are still weak all over and are undoubtedly the majors' weakest team. 
This week, the A's :>igned a pact with the University of California's student station to broadcast their gams until April23. So, by May 1, the A's may still wind up in Denver. 
1973 Vega-55~::~~~: rust on body-CLASSIFIED
mechanically inspected. 234-5686. 
1973 LTD 1Q-passenger station wagon. Automatic transmission, power steering, power breaks, radio, tinted glass and luggage rack. Slight body damage. 234-5686. 
Used golf balls like new $20.00/100 and other prices. Call 272-o783. 
Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated material at alow price. Call Doug at 8982 or Stop by 318 Zahm. 
FOR SALE: Universal zig-zag sewing machine. Does stretch stitch and other fancy stitches. Great condition. Make an offer. Call 6734. 
PERSONALS 

Karen Broderick ­Have anice day. from Rex, Roy, Joy and all the Rolldans. 
A joyous occasion Brady Burton's B-Day is this Saturday. Salutations, gifts, cards, etc., are welcome. 
HAPPY HOUR AT LIBRARY!!! Sponsor­ed by Sorin and Farley 3-6 this afternoon. $.25 beer and$.50 drinks. 
ATTENTION ACCOUNTING MAJORS: HAVE YOU HEARD OF HIE BIG FOUR? VOTE KEVIN CONNALLY, JIM OWENS, CLAY PARKER AND ACE SHUSKO FOR NOAA ON FRIDAY. 
Dave-Have a Happy. See you at the lake. We're there! Ex-
Cindy, I love you. Jim 
An Tostal is coming! All talented impersonations ( or those who think they are) Register now for impersonation CALL K.B. At 4-1-4677. Rich Little Beware!! 
FREE JOHN KENNEDY FUND: Give 
your donations to: Chip Scanlon -Morrissye 
Wally Robinson-OC 
Sue Grace -Farley Mary Walsh -BP 
Charlie Fischer-Dillon Marla Treckelo -LeMans Barb Raynor -Holy Cross SMC Frank Dwyer -SMC Supervisor Bob Smith -South Dining Hall Merce Haley -Lyons 
Dave Wisniewski -Polish Rep 
Jeff Carpenter -Pangborn 
Pepi Santoni -HC 
Julie Latchford -Augusta 
Bring VK to NO. Give often. 
Loretta, 
Good luck tonight, but I know you won't need it! Just "Jump and shake...and percolate!" love, Stacy 
Maria, Best wishes and Good Luck-you'll do it. Fag 
EVERYBODY!!!Call Gus Cifelli, Notre Dame's promising future J.D. and con­gratulate him on his acceptance to law school. [Beautiful women especially) Call7093 or 288-1111 
Gus, Let me be the first. Congrats! Are the drinks on you? Stacy 
Attention ND/SMC girls: Sign-ups for girls division of Bookstore Basketball will begin April 1Q-14. Call Betsy 4-1-4214 (2:30-4:30) Also, we need volunteers to ref and keep score. Call Amy 4-1-5710 (11:0Q-11:30 pm.) 
Teresita: Your hair is red, your eyes are blue This is something special That is just for you!! 
Guess who? 

Haircuts, trims, styles -CHEAP! SMC 4530. Betsy 
CJF is coming. Be there!!!!! 
Pat Gunning reads "Popular Mechanics" Good Luck MB! 
Mr. Personality, "When it comes, it's REALLY gonna come!!!" Ruff 
Set your younger sister up with Joe"Joey A" Aberger for finals weekend. Call 1802 or come to 112 Grace to meet him. 
Maureen Gildea, 
You've come this far, don't stop now! Go straight to the top, and remember, "When it's scarey, don't look down." I'm counting on you!! 
Love, Stacy 
JJ-

Presidents are fine, But V.P.'s are GREAT. I knew you would win cuz with me you're 1st rate!! 
Love, Cover Girl 
Ed, 

Stop worrying, stop worrying, stop worrying!!! Need I say more? You've got it! Love, Stacy 
For Sale: 2 Jackson Browne Tickets. Call Kate 7888 
NO gentleman desires female to accom­pany him to Jackson Browne concert. Must name my favoriet Jackson Browne song. Ask for Cal at 1528. 
Rumor is that Dave R. tried to impress a girl Sunday while she was studying! Call him (3280) and wish him a Happy Birthday. He may impress you. 
POB  
Whiskers  
Hat  

. Melanie Jorgensen: Whatever you have planned for me on Monday, I know it'II be good. 
Ted Eichelberger is paranoid and he should be. 
Steve Wonderful, Good luck on your crinkly act! Maggot, Sweens, Cindy 
Banker Lombardo alias the "cheer­leader", Will our merger be full of colorful routines with a choice of option­als? 
Admirer 

Deardave, Happy 20th! "Always and forever" Love, Bets 
Dave, Snookie wishes you a Happy Birthday. Love, Jellybean 
Dave, Bruno, Chuckle and I hope your birth­day's the best. Uncle Pervie 
Now! For a limited time only! FREE ARGUMENTS! For your free argument, call "Scoop" at 1605 and get contradict­ed. 
Jesse, 

Congratulations. How much do you charge for body repairs and tune-ups? 
Thanx to all the people who helped out with the campaign! Thanx alot, Jim, Maureen, Aaron, and Debba. 
To Each of you, Amy, Steve(Huik), Christy and Bob, you can do it -Good Luck! My love always, 
MB 

William G. With a little luck, we can work it out. P.M. 
Grima Is no crime! Vote Bill Nellist UMOC. (Bieah!) 
Concert Band Members ­
Thanks for the memorial picnic and other good times during my tenure on the van. Happy Hour at Boar's Head this Friday. Meet at 3:45 in band room. 
Super Sub 

Disco Lessons-Hustle, swing, Waltz and more now being taught, Call Mark Thompson 272-2976 between 5-6 only. 
Marra and G1111ni welcome to the Univer­sity. I'm looking foraward to saaing you Saturday night. Have agreat waakendlll 0. 
12 the observer Fricbv, April 1, 197& 
Irish star makes pro debut 
Jackson impresses NHL 
by Brian Beglane an~ am planning on playing on the 
Sport• Writer Untted States national team later 
this month. North Stars' coach Lou 
He sat in the locker room after Nanne said as iong as I was doing the game sipping a coke. His that I might as well workout with jersey was the only part of his them. and having been off the ice uniform he had taken off and the for nine days, I gladly accepted. sweat poured down his face, show-The timing was lucky," noted ing the rigors of the just completed Jackson. game. Most of the other players "Minnesota defenseman Brian started heading towards the show-Maxwell broke his thumb Thursday ers. but he stayed. A band-aid so they dropped to only five covered a small cut on his nose. defensemen who could skate. For all intents and purposes, it Instead of calling anyone up from appeared to be just another hockey the minor league they offered it to game for Don Jackson. But it me. To say the least I was thrilled, wasn't. and worked it out with them so I 
The arena was a strange one. could play two games." The colors of the uniform were Saturday. March 25, Don made different. The team was different. his NHL debut. It took place at an And the league was different. It appropriate place--the Metropoli­was the NHL. tan Sports Center in Bloomington, 
Don Jackson had just corqpleted just three miles from where the a sort of job interview, but rest product of Bloomington Kennedy assured, not many seniors go for High School grew up. such an interview. While most "It was a big thrill to be drafted college seniors migrated to Florida by the North Stars, and then for spring break, Don Jackson went playing in my hometown before my back home to Bloomington, Mione-family and friends. My parents sota, to workout with the Mione-were really happy about it," he sota North Stars. In fact, Jackson noted. had planned to go to Florida but Luck was with him again in the later talked with the North Stars North Stars' scheduling. He was to and was invited to practice with play against the Philadelphia them for the week. It was well Flyers that Saturday at home and worth missing the sunshine. then the following night against the 
"I was drafted by Minnesota New York Islanders in Uniondale. aft~r my sophomore season in 1976 Long Island. He played two of the top teams in the NHL, with the New Yorkers leading the Flyers by just five points atop the Patrick Division. And the second game was rescheduling of an. earlier snowed out game in New York. 

"I did not know Minnesota was 
playing two such important games 
until that Thursday. What shook 
·~:::so 
~···~
me the most was a radio interview I had the day before the game. The announcer starting explaining about the race for first place, how the North Stars had beaten them earlier in the season, that they would be looking for revenge, and 

-...~ 
with all that hitting me at once, I just said to myself, 'Wow!' " "I was nervous all day before the 

....
game. but by gametime, I was settled down and relaxed. The players were great about it so I was not nervous during the game." 
He skated a regular shift on defense for both games and was teamed with North Stars defense-men Fred Barrett and Jerry Eng­ele. The ND blueliner played impressively, and Minnesota gene­raJ manager-coach Lou Nanne was very pleased. 1 

"Don played very well in both games and has a good future with the North Stars organization. 1 I'm Don jackson, defenseman on this year's hockey team, had a very happy with him," he ~om-two-game tryout with the North Stars over spring break. 
mented. Islander~ 6-~. . Jackson did an The North Stars lost t~ t~e Flyers outstandtn~ J?b _m both games anct 4-3 and dropped the dectston to the was not tntlmtdated at all by 
TedRobinso~lli~~w~~lli~~~w~w~~~~B~B~~~~ 
Royal Finish 

In their never-ending attempt to surpass the National League in caliber 
of play, the American League owners nearly cornered the market on free 
agents during the off-season. The majority of these players settled in the 
Western Division, giving it balance which it has never before possessed. 
Although the division does own two of the three worst teams in the 
majors, it is the most balanced and competitive division of the four. 
Despite watching Texas and California sign every free agent west of the 
Mississippi for two years, the Kansas City Royals have abstained from the 
"Celebrity Sweepstakes," preferring to let their farm system do the work 
for them. A third consecutive divisional title for a team only ten years old 
is certainly a testimony to one of baseball's outstanding front offices. 
KANSAS CITY: AI Hrabosky, Willie Wilson and Clint Hurdle are the 
reasons the Royals will remain ahead of Texas and a vastly-improved 
California. 

Don't be surprised if Hrabosky, stolen from St. Louis for Mark Littell, 
becomes the premier reliever in the league with his high fastball and 
reborn Fu Manchu. His presence gives the Royals the bullpen stopper 
they have always lacked. Doug Bird, Larry Gura, Steve Mingori and 
Marty Pattin will join Hrabosky in the division's deepest bullpen. 
While the Royals hope that Hrabosky can provide the three outS" that 
prevented them from reaching the World Series last year, they are 
searching for a stronger starting rotation. Denrlis Leonard and Paul 
Splittorff are the first two, but 18-game winner Jim Colborn is suspect, as 
suggested by his absence from last year's playoffs. One hope is that Steve 
Busby can recover from the arm injury that limited him to three innings in 
DaYtona Beach last year. 

Wilson and Hurdle are two more products of baseball's top farm 
system. Wilson, who stole 74 bases in Omaha last year, appears to have 
bumped the Tom Poquette-Joe Zdeb platoon out of left field. Hurdle, the 
20-year-old phenom, won the first-base job in spring training and forced 
the trade ofJohn Mayberry to Toronto. Some observers think Hurdle is a 
year away, but his presence was enough to make the Roylas'find a new 
home for Mayberry. • 
Elsewhere, the Royals are set. AI Cowens, coming off an outstanding 
year, is blossoming as one of baseball's premier right fielders. Although 
there will be plenty of pressure from Texas and California, the 
home-grown Royals remain the class of this division. 
CAUFORNIA: The team that many people thought would win this 
division last year finished 14 games below .500. Crippling injuries to free 
agents Joe Rudi and Bobby Grieb and an arm injury to Frank Tanana left 
the depth-less Angles in trouble. But things have changed this year. 
Bobby Bonds is gone, but his place will more than adequately be taken by last year's most expensive free agent, Lyman Bostock. Bostock brings the league's second-best average (.336) to Anaheim, and fills the Angels' need for a centerfielder. Rudi and Don Baylor, a flop last year, round out the outfield, although Baylor will play a good deal at first base to make room for minor-league star Ken Landreaux and former Boston outfielder Rick Miller. 
Jerry Remy is also gone, enabling Bobby Grich to return to second base with 22-year-old Rance Mulliniks playing short. Much-improved Dave Chalk is at third, while Tony Solaita and 40-year-old Ron Fairly will hold down fir~t base and the DH role. 
Brian Downing, one of the players acquired in the Bonds deal, becomes the first established catcher the Angels have had in years, although he will be without a suitable backup. 
Recently, the Angels have been the American League's answer to "Spahn and Sain and pray for rain." Finally they seem to have found arms for the days when Tanana and Nolan Ryan can't pitch. 
Chris Knapp won 12 games for the defensively-weak White Sox and Don Aase, acquired in the Remy trade, was considered Boston's top pitching prospect last year. Dave LaRoche and Dyar Miller anchor a capabl-: bullpen. 
If any le:tm deserves to be a "darkhorse" candidate, the Angels fill the bill. With good years from Knapp and Aase and an injury-free season, the Royals coulcl be in for trouble. TEXAS: Brad "Monty Hall" Corbett has acquired so much talent that he has threatened tc. ship this te_am south of the border for some water ifthey don't win the division. They can start packing. 
While signing Richie Zisk as a free-agent and acquiring AI Oliver and Jon Matlack, the Rangers seem to be improved on the surface. But, there are holes. 
Although their infield (H,argrove, Wills, Campaneris and Harrah) is solid, their outfield is defen$ively weak. The problem will be aggravated if Zisk insists on playing right field instead of being the designated non-player. This would fore~ Oliver to center and Claudell Washington to left. Those three arms would have trouble reaching home together. 
lfZisk is the DH, then Juan Beniquez, a fine defensive player, becomes the centerfielder with Oliver in left and Washington in right. 
The real trouble at the Alamo is on the mound. The Rangers picked up a fine southpaw in Matlack and a retread in Doc Medich while losing their top starter, Bert Blyleven, and their only reliever, Adrian Devine. The starting rotation of Matlack, Doyle Alexander, Dock Ellis and Medich is adequate, while Fergie Jenkins, exiled from Boston, will be the fifth starter. Outside of hopeful Len Barker and verteran Paul Lindblad, there is no bullpen. 
This is a team of high hopes, but all its talent congested into hitting. Watch for a trade for a front-line pitcher before June 15. CIDCAGO: The White Sox are another team based on hitting. and they have 61 homers to make up in the face of the loss of Richie Zisk and Oscar Gamble. 
Bobby Bonds, brought in for a year from California, will provide some of the missing punch, but a large load has fallen on the shoulders of Ron Blomberg. Unfortunately, Blomberg, who cost Veeck 5600,000, has only played in 35 games in the last 3 years, with one at-bat in the last two. Eric Soderholm was a Iongshot that paid off. If Blomberg is successful, Veeck should go to Sportsman's Park. 
People like Ralph Garr, Alan Bannister, Jorge Orta, Blomberg and Lamar Johnson all have two things in common. They can hit, but they can't play the field. On this Opening Day, no one is yet sure who the starting shortstop will be or the starting pitcher. 
This uncertainty is (!aused by the fact that the Chisox don't have a pitcher with anything more than his five fingers on his pitches. When your Opening Day pitcher is Steve Stone or Frankie Barrios, your hopes are slim at best. 
One thing is for sure, baseball will again be fun at Comiskey Park:. Although the scoreboard malfunctioned at an open workout yesterday, double digits have been installed in all the inning columns. Manager Bob Lemon said yesterday that he expects 90 to 95 wins this year. I hope he doesn't hold his breath. SEATTLE: Yes, an expansion team will finish fifth. The Mariners are under the intelligent control of Lou Gorman, a man who is quietly building a sound club. 
They signed one free agent, .300-hitting outfielder Bruce Bochte, to go with holdovers Rupe Jones and Lee Stanton. Dan Meyer and Bill Stein 
anchor the corner positions in the infield and both are decent hitters.  Jose  
Baez  and  Craig  Reynolds  are  a  good-field,  no­ 
hit double play combination.  

The catching will be shared by Bob Stinson and Kevin Pasley, although there is little depth elsewhere. 
The Mariners don't have much pitching, but neither do the teams below £hem. Glenn Abbott, Dick Pole and Gary Wheelock are the only known starters while Enrique Romo is a good reliever. 
This team is only two or three players and three pitchers away from being a .500 or better club. They have the combination of hitting and fielding that a team like the White Sox lacks, although they are painfully short of arms. MINNESOTA: This is the year that the free-agent losses finally catch up with Calvin Griffith. It's a shame because the Twins had finally molded a respectable club until money tore them apart at the seams. 
Rod Carew, Butch Wynegar, Dan \Ford, Dave Goltz, Tom Johnson and Roy Smalley are the only Twins who could play anywhere else in the league. Beyond them is a cast of no-names and rejects. The Twins have hopes for outcasts like Glenn Adams, Rich Chiles, 
[continued on page 11] professional players. It takes a lot to intimidate his 6-3. 210 pound frame. He did notice. however, a 

~~::~kof~~from 
"The players in the NHL take to the body every time. they will not poke the puck away from you. They take you away from the puck. Everybody skates very fast and you can't be slow or get caught with your head down. Otherwise you will be on the ice." commented Jackson. who has played hockey with fellow Irish blueline Dan Byers ever since sixth grade. 
Don wasted no time in showing the Islanders how hard he hits. He gave 6-3. 220 pound forward Clark Gillies a ride into the boards that any NHL defenseman would envy. And Gilfies is not a gentle man. Just ask Dave Schultz of the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
"Gillies got me back in the third period. though." smiled Jackson. AI Arbour. coach of the Islan­
ders.  and  goalie  Glenn  (Chico)  
Resch  had  high  praise  for  the  
young defenseman.  

"Jackson is a monster out there. He played very well against us and I was impressed with his physical play," noted Arbour. 
"I was very impressed with the way Jackson played. For someone so young he played with confi­dence. It looks like he has a good future." Resch said. 
"I started looking forward to playing in the pros after I was drafted and I'm thrilled that I have the chance," commented Jackson. 
It has been a long road for Jackson, starting out as a sixth grader playing in the peewees for the local VFW in Bloomington, to playing for Bloomington Kennedy High School. to a standout career in the WCHA. And now it appears he will be turning on to Main Street, the NHL. 
His is the basic story of the 

young kid hawking autographs at the arena, thinking one day that maybe he would play for them. He is just a few rungs away from the top of the ladder now, fulfilling the childhood dream of thousands of youngsters. Not many people get to do that. He has come a long way in his 11-year career on tlle ice. But now he concentrates on finishing his collegiate career with the U.S. national team. And then he hopes to get started in the NHL. Yes indeed, Don Jackson has just begun. 
Bookstore B-ball entries booked 
All entry spots for the 1978 version of Bookstore B·asketball have been filled. The 256 team tournament will begin on Tuesday, 
\pril 11. 








