HPC sponsors 
An Tostal ends as 'success' 

by Tim Sullivan Staff Reporter 
An Tostal, Notre Dame's annual spring festival sponsored by the Hall President's Council, ended yesterday, concluding the week-
long celebration. John Rooney, An Tostal chairman, termed the event "a great success." 
Frivolous Friday's events in­cluded the Jello Toss, which was won by Dillon residents J.P. Madi­gan and Lou Bridges. Fifteen people managed to ert:l't a human pyramid to win the People Pyra­mid. Sheila and Laura Cronin discovered the location of the hidden "liquid gold" under the statue of Fr. Corby in the Treasure Hunt. 
The highest bid in the Slave Auction was for Margaret McGlynn for $18. The Frisbee Toss' longest throw was 249 feet, performed by Randv Levin. The greatest accu­racy in the event was demonstrated by Brian Murphy. 
Other events of the'dav included a grafitti wall, egg toss·, face sha­ving, suitcase race, keg toss, and impersonation contest. Recess 104 was held ·in Stepan Center Friday evening providing everyone with a chance to return to their childhood. An Tostal's first outdoor walk-in movie, featuring ''Blazing Sad­dles.'' drew a huge crowd in front of Rockne Memorial at midnight. 

Sunny Saturday featured events at the Mud Pits, such as the Ben Hur Chariot Race, which was won by the Stanford team driven by Mike Quinlivan, competing in a field of eight teams. Following the race, mass confusion ensued, as spec­tators began throwing each other into the mud pits. As a result, the greased pork chop contest was cancelled, and the tug of war and mud volleyball games were post­poned until later that afternoon. The Observer staff defeated WSND in the volleyball match two games 

,.__  .---~  
An Tostal chairman john Rooney is the target of  a  pie assassin.  
[Pho.to by Maureen Sajbel]  

Senator Lugar addresses Seniors as Class Fellow 
b~· Chuck Kaufman 

Indiana Senator Richard G. Lugar was honored yesterday as Senior Cia~~ Fellmv for 1978 at a g;.~thcring in the courtyard of the Senior Bar. Lugar spoke informally with seniors. and was presented with a plaque and Senior Class T -shirt by Senior Fellow Committee Chairman Liz Naquin 
Naquin expressed the Senior Cbss' gratitude to Lugar for being this year's Fellow, observing that the Senior Class ''would like to say that we're going to do something with our lives. and that Senator Lugar. .. is going to go somewhere too, so in a way we can identify with him." 
Lugar thanked the class. noting that he was "very honored" to have been selected this year's Clas~ Fellow. He then addressed those gathered for a few minutes on what he perceives as a new brand of politics current in Wash­ington, and what <.'hanges this new feeling indicates in the nation. 

"It seems that the Senate and the House are changing. very substantially. remarkably so, in terms of the requirements that they have for their Senators and mem­bers of the House,'' Lugar said. ''And these changes have come about because a lot of people in the country are eager to be a part of the decision-making." 
As examples of these changes. Lugar cited the strict accounting [Continued on page 6] 
to one. 
On the football field, Lewis hall defeated Regina 20-0 in the An Tostal Bowl. The SCA Fighting, Human Pyramid, and Flour .Blow­ing Contests which were scheduled for half-time of the game were not held due to lack of interest. In Earth Ball Soccer, the North Quad beat the South Quad two goals to none. The game was called at half-time when the six-foot dia­meter ball deflated. 
The Carnival continued all week­end in the Stepan Center parking lot. In Stepan Center that evening, the Irish Wake, featuring the music of Unity and the Irish Brigade, was held. At the Wake, Orflst Deychak­iwsky was proclaimed the winner of the Uglies Man on Campus contest. 
On Serene Sunday, .Leo's Last under the leadership Of Jeff Car­penter captured the~ Bookstore Basketball championship defeating the Chumps 21-18. The evening ended with the Irish Pub in the Senior Bar. 
SG re~orts 
I 
I 
by Susie Meyers 
I 

Although it will have:to watch its budget very closely tin the up­coming weeks, Student Govern­ment does not foresee a shortage of money. Beau Mason, Student Government treasurer, said the 
Seven newl pleas
I 

attributed to I Moro 
ROME [AP]··A flurry of new letters attributed yesterday to former Premier Aldo Mora pressed for acceptance of his kidnappers' demand that the government free 13 jailed terrorists in e~change for his libertv. 
The Italian government and rul­

ing Christian Democratic Party 
have steadfastly refused that ulti­
inatum from tl1e Red Brigades 
ultra-leftist guerrillas who seized 
Moro, the 61-year-old party presi­
dent, on March 16. 
Seven new pleas purportedly from Mora went to Italy's heads of state, government and legislature as well as to Christian Democrat colleagues and the leader of the Socialist Party noted for his more conciliatory approach to dealing with Mora's captors. 
The letters were received Satur­dav but their existence was made public yesterday. All are being checked for authenticity. 
The Socialists revealed the con­tents of Mora's purported letter to Secretary-General Bettina Craxi. Contents of the others were not disclosed, but sources said at least two made similar pleas. 
"Every hour that passes could make it vain ... Believe me, there is not a single minute to lose...Wh1t counts is not explanation but, if one can do something, to do it.·· read the handwritten letter from Moro to Craxi, whose party is one of four cooperating with the Christian Democrat minority government. 
Spokesmen for President Gio­vanni Leone and Premier Giulio Andreotti said each office had received a letter said to be from Moro. Parliament announced Moro had written to the president of the Senate, Christian Democrat Amin­tore Fanfani. and to Pietro lngrao. Communist president of the cham­ber of deputies. Two letters were addressed to other Christian Demo­crat politicians. 
So far 14letters purportedly from Moro in captivity have been received since he was abducted in a Rome street ambush that killed his five bodyguards. 
-. ~ ~-l---r-......---­

cq 
l 
l 
j ~ 
l 
: 





adequate finances 
organization should be able to function on its remaining funds until the 1978-79 budget goes into effect June 30.f 
According to Mason, "Student Government is not out of money, but it will have to be very careful the rest of the year on how it spends its money.'' He added that spending may be reduced in Obser­ver advertising costs and telephone toll calls. 
Student Body President Andy McKenna does not anticipate any prob1ems in implementing his pro­gran s because of a money shor­tage. "If we should run short of funds," stated McKenna, "the Board of Commissioners may re­allocate funds from Student Gov­ernment accounts, which have an excess of money this year.'' Extra money could also be obtained from the Strategic Reserve Fund, a $5000 account set aside specifically for emergencies. 
The money shortage is due to the fact that extra projects were added to the budget after it was set last spring. "For example," said Mason, "no money was allocated in the budget for Alcohol Aware­ness Week, which cost Student Government at least 5300." 
Student Government is currently operating on a budget of $17,500. This figure represents a reduction of $700 from the 1976-77 budget. 


-_!_ 


Monday, May 1, 1978
2_ the observer ---, 

,...News Briefs_____ ......_,. 
t:::-=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::============:::::::::::::-:::::::::::: World 


Auto showrooms bombed 
ROME [AP] -Police said yesterday that the ultra-left Labor Armed Squads claimed responsib_ility for the overnig~t fire bombings of Alfa Romeo showroom~ m Rom~, Padua and ~unn. No injuries were reported. The bombmgs, wh1ch caused wtdespr~ad damage. reportedly were protests against a labor agre~ment w1tht the car manufacturer's management to increase production of a new 
model through extra working hours. Oil .fire controlled CAIRO, Egypt [AP]-A fire broke out in the oil tanks at Ras Shokeir on the west bank of the Gulf of Suez but was brol}ght under control with the help of military aircraft dropping fl~ame-retardant chemicals. The Cairo newspaper AI Akhabar reported that two workers suffered severe burns in the blaze and at least two tanks were damaged. ==-===:~~::-::::::====~===-:=:.==-======= National Campbell to test~f)~ ATLANTA [AP] -Convicted embezzler Billy Lee Camp~ell ?f Calhoun Ga., may be called to testify before a federal grand JUry m Atlanta investigating the banking affairs of forme~ fe?eral budget dire'ctor Bert Lance. the Atlanta Journal-Constttutton reported vcsterdav. Campbell. who was a vice president of the Calhoun First National-Bank from 19h8 to 1975, is serving a sentence at the Federal Correctional Institution in Lexington, Ky. Lance was president of that hank from 1963 until 1974. War on words developing GREELEY, Colo. !API-The War on Words Committee is preparing for literary battle. The group at the University 1lf Northern Colorado savs it is taking on the phrase "ya know" a~ its first assault on sloppy language. Frank Lakin, the university's vice president for academic administration, came up with the idea for the committee when someone told him that "one of the best things we can do for or students is to break them of the habit of continually using the phrase 'ya know."·  
Weather Mostly sunny today and tomorrow. Highs in the low and mid 50s today and in the mid to upper 50s tomorrow. Clear to partly cloudy tonight with lows in the upper 20s to low 30s and a chance of frost or freezing.  
~On Campus Today_----...., 10 am-pottery sale, sponsored by nd ceramic dub 1n 4:30pm o'shag's great hall. 12:30. film series, "welfare," sponsored by women· s 1 pm rights association, law school, rm. 105. 3:30pm lecture, "gold, parliament and chaucer's complaint to his purse: a literary scholar's search for a multi-disciplinary method of cultural history,·· by prof. richard ivo schneider, york university, spon­sored by medieval inst. mem. lib. medieval institute rm 175. 6:45 pm rosary, daily at grotto. 8pm second scene drama, "all my sons," by arthur miller. vegetable buddies, nd/smc theatre.  




Women rectors discuss housing 
• by Jana Schutt 
Last Friday the women's dorm 
rectors met with Edmund Price, 
newly appointed director of hous­
ing at Notre Dame, to discuss 
housing for next year. The 
discussion focused on the need for 
facilities to accomodate 28 more 
women next year. 
According to Sr. Kathleen Ross-

ERRATUM 
The following is a corrected version of an obituary which ap­peared in the Observer on Friday, April 28. 
LeClair H. Eells, a professor of 
finance and business economics at 
Notre Dame from J 930 to 1972, 
died April 27 in Mesa, AR. where 
he was Jiving in retirement. He 
was 72. . 
The body will be buried in South 
Bend. The Welsheimer funeral 
home is in charge of arrangements. 
Eells was born Nov. 9, 1905, in 
New Hartford. lA. and rcceved his 
t>duration at the University of 
Northern Iowa. Harvard Business 
School, Northwestern. and l11diana 
Univcr<>itv. 
He ser~cd as chairman of the finance department at Notre Dame from 1942 through 1960 and re­ceived the distinguhhed service award from the American Institute of Banking in 1964. 
He is survived by two daughters, a sc,n, and seve11 grandchildren. 
Film series 

concludes today 
"Welfare." the final film in the Women and the Law film series will be shown today at 12:30 p.m.-J 
p.m. in Rm. lOS of the Law School. All interested students are invited to attend. 

Night E:ditor:  Scoop Sull1vdn  
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Sue  
Wuetcher  
layout Staff:  Steve  Mayer,  
Mike Lewis  

Features layout: KPvin Thad­deu Pawson lthe qUiet one) Sports layout: Ray 0'Brien Typists: Karen Chiames (de­fine4-ish!), Anne Giere, Mary McCauley, Carol Erkmar. Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie Copy Reader: Debbie Dahr­iing Ad layout: We don't know Photographer: Ken McAlpine 


studie f faculty compensation an fringe benefits; efforts to secure ~ ality of treatment r part-time teache~nd women at Notre Da~; current acaqemic freedom and tenure issUbs; and the hapter's plans for 1978-79. 

man, rector of Walsh, the rectors talked with their hall staffs about possible additional residents before attending the meeting. 
Walsh and Farley halls will be affected most by the overcrowding, according to Rossman. Six quads will be extended to quints next fall 
in  Walsh  and  two  triples  will  
become quads.  
Sr.  Jean Lenz.  rector  of Farley,  

explained that the Farley Hotel has been scheduled to become housing for fourteen students next year. An RA will reside in the basement of Farle)· to accomodate these girls. Three other girls will also be added to the Farley population. 
Lenz added. "We took in four girls last fall and now 17 more next fall. That is a large addition. 21 girls in two years.'' 
The other rectors contacted ex­plained that there would be only one resident added in their dorms. or that they would not be affected by the overcrowding. 
"We hope the University recog­nizes that this is still a problem," Rossman stated. ''It has been temporarily handled, but it will need further thought to solve it 
..
permanentIy. 
Rossman noted that last year additions were made on a "tem­porary" basis which have now become permanent arrangements. 
The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during ex•m end vaatlon periods. The Observer Is publfshed by the students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions m•y be purchased tor no per year C$1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indian• 4US6. S•cond class postage patd, ""otre Dame, lndl•na, 46556. 
The Observer Is • member of tr.e .A noelated Pren-.A II repro. doctton rtrntt •re "''•"'ed 


tonite: 'oatmeal' with ioe willke,

1 0 pm  steve podry, and ma1t  
feenet  
tues:  come to the  'piano bar'  
10pm  wi1h walt s1rauser and_  


mike franken 

~----------------------------,
:THE STUDENT UNION I 

IACADEMIC COMMISSION I IPRESENTS I 
I I




I I 
----------------· 
:ouTTAKES 

1---------~~~ 
BLOOPERS• WITH ,HERB GRAFF 

TUESDAY MAY 2 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

L7_.:_~Q-~M-------~~~~ 
I r / 

Phone-a-thon exceeds goal 
by Cathy Morray 

The third annual phone-a-thon at Saint Mary's College, which began on April 11 and ended on April 26, produced a record breaking $41,411 in pledges last week. According to Julie Pellettiere, stu­dent development commissioner for the fund raising event, the pledges exceeded this year's goal by over $1,000. 
The phone-a-than is a volunteer program, in which faculty, students and others spend two-hour shifts calling alumni all over the country. According to Pellettiere, the money pledged will go into an "unrestric­ted fund" which means that the funds will be used wherever they are needed. Top priority this year will be given to offsetting the $1,000 difference between tuition and the actual cost paid by Saint Mary's students. As long as thf phone-a-thons continue to be sue· cessful, tuition raises wHJ not be as great. 
Response to the phone-a-thon was approximately 75 percent posi­tive said Pellettiere. This year's goal of $40,000 was 30 percent higher than last year's and the fund raising event topped the set expec­tations. 
Pellettiere said that she feels the phone-a-thons will continue to be ·'successively better'' and she wishes to thank all the people who worked so hard to make this year's phone-a-thon a success. 
Nixon releases new book 
NEW YORK [AP] -Richard M. Nixon says in his memoirs that he held on to his White House tapes as "insurance" in case his aides turned against him as John Dean had done. 
It W!lS a decision, he says, that helped doom his tenure in the White House. 
"I now believe," he writes. "that from the time of the disclo­sure of the existence of the tapes and my decision not to destroy them, my presidency had little chance of surviving to the end of its term." 
Nixon talks about the tapes in the second segment of his memoirs published in today's editions by new~papers that bought the syndi­cation rights from a subsidiary of The New York Times. 
The second segment was first on the streets late yesterday in the ChicagoTrlbune. 
The book, "RN: The Memoirs of Richard Nixon," will list at $19.95 when it goes on sale in May. Special autographed editions are being offered at $50 and $250. 
Nixon was in Bethesda Naval Hospital on July 16, 1973, when a former aide, Alexander Butterfield, told the Senate Watergate Commit­tee about the system that eaves­dropped on every conversation in his offices. The former president writes that he was shocked at the disclosure. 
A few months earlier, he said, he had told chief of staff H.R. H lContinued .m page 6] 
~~~><~~~~~~~~~<?-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Schneider to lecture today 
...... 
"Gold, Parliament and Chau­cefs Complaint to his Purse" will be the theme of a lecture given by Professor Richard lvo Schneider of York University, England, today at 
3:30 p.m. in Rm. 715 of the Mcmoriai.Library. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Medieval Institute of Notre Dame and all students and faculty. are invited to attend. 
r------------------~----------------------­
.. 

STUDENT UNION 
Brave charioteers storm through the Mud Pits in last Saturday's Ben Hur Race. [Photo by REFRIGERATOR PICK-UP Pete Romzick] 
MAY 4, 'I977 
DORM PICK·UP TIME 
Sundays NonhQuad 4:00 to 6:00P.M. 
FLANNER •:00..10:00 FARLEY 49:00·1o:oo 
FLANNER·GRACE 

Monday thru Thursday BP·FARLEY KEENAN 49:00·IO:OOKEENAN
5:00 to 7:00 P.M. 
10:00·11:00

STANFORD·ST.ED's KEENAN Dinners include a trip CAVANAUGH·ZAHM KEENAN 
11:00·1~00 

to bountiful salad bar, 
SmathQuJUI

long grain and wild rice or baked potato and DILLON-ALUMNI ALUMNI 10:30-11:30 
PANGBORN 10:30.11:30
bread. FISHER-PANGBORN LTONS.MORRISSEY LYONS 1~30.1:30 12.!30·1:30
WALSH.SORJN BOOfRORE
HOWAJlD..BADIN LEWIS 1:00.1:30
LEWIS HOLYCROSS HOLYCROSS 10:30-11:30 
Saint Mag's 
All Dorms Picked Up At Lemans Parklnl Lot 2:30.3:30
PRIME RIB, Petite Cut ss.oo charge for uncleaned relrl1erator 
SCROD, 11 you c:aunot make your desl1nated Broiled 1n lemon butter hour bring relrl1erator to Keenan basement 1 hour after deslanatecl


BARBEQUED pick-up. 
SHORT RIBS. In .our homernade sauce 
Phont' lor rt'st'rvations 


----------~~--.-.-----~----r-----------~-----.-----.~--------------~--------~---------------------------------------------------------~-­
A Look at the Year 

There's Some Good News,I and Some Bad News 

As we come to the end of another year, and take an honest took at things, we recognize a mix that is always going to prevail--some good things and some not so good things. 
First, the bad news. We have to acknowledge that locally, nationally, and internationally, there is much that depresses, angers, and saddens all of us. We are distressed to see that our world spends almost a million dollars a minute on arms of destruction. Then there is the 
·Middle East, South Africa, northern 
Ireland, Latin America and all the other 
places where turmoil and oppression reign. 
.. 
There are proo1ems in our own country, too--crime. continuing inequality of life, corruption in government and business, exploitation. poverty, joblessness, and our personal and petty slashings of one 
*Observer 

......----------------------------------~----------~~-~~ 




All f()SICll Sulllll Sc1turclcll 

~ 
! 
t 
I 
t l 

I .·-. f" 
~ 
I t !!\... j ~' 
...... •Ji _...,.. 
'~ ~' 
j 
• A •

:;,. • 
anomer. 

There has been a share of bad news at 
Notre Dame also. The groundskeepers' 
dispute (which friends tell me is giving 
N.D. a terrible image around the country) is just one example. And there are others. One sympathizes, for instance, with count­less seniors who are embarrassed to have "Richard Nixon's favorite mayor" as their selection for Senior Fellow. 
Sure, there's been bad news this year; a good measure of it. But it strikes me that it would be much more productive to focus on the good news. And there's been plenty, especially here at the Dome. 
One thinks, of Dallas, the "final four," fencing; hall activities, the plays, the Keenan Review, the Nazz and jazz; Mardi Gras and an absolutely incredible An Tostal. 
Most of all, however, the good news has been the people. (That, of course, should never surprise us: people have always made Notre Dame what it is, and it shall forever be this way.) We all look back over this year and relish those moments made wonderful because of men and women who touched, supported, forgave, healed, laughed with us, and lifted our spirir.s. 
We each have our long list. I think of Vi, Martha, Marti, Chris, Fran, Dave, Danny, and on and on it goes. I see students with k.ids from Logan--at a foo!ball game, on a rtde at the carnival, walking arm in arm across the campus. I see young men and women walking from the circle to Howard Park on a Sunday afternoon, so the unborn might live. I remember those who worked 
so hard to make,United Way a success; and those who tutor and visit the elderly. I recall those times when people fasted and struggled for world hunger; and Neighbor­hood Roots, Urban Plunge; CILA and Amnesty International. 
I will,not soon forget the good times with good people at the Senior Bar, dining halls, ACC, residence halls, Bulla Shed, and all the other special spots where friends congregate and share some of themselves and their lives with one another. 
One thinks, too, of those who stay here through the years, totally dedicated to ~haringjourneys with young adults search­t~g for truth and maturity: hall staff, so 
. smgularly unappreciated around here· and administrators like John Benesh,' Sr. Jud~th Ann, Leo Ryan, Bill Burke, Rick Sulhvan. John Goldrick,_ Dick Willemin... 
• 



father bill toohey 
and so many others. You can't forget the 
faculty and the staff personnel, nurses in 
the infirmary, dining hall helpers, main­
tenance people, secretaries and so many 
behind the scenes who affect our lives 
without, unfortunately, our realizing it 
most of the time. 
With me, however, I guess I'd have to 
say that the best news this year has been 
caused by those students who have gifted 
me with trust; who have allowed me the 
privilege of entering their lives at the 
deepest possible level; who have said 
"You're welcome" to know me like 
probably no one else in the world. It's 
impossible for me to overestimate what a 
marvelous experience that is. , 
I have witnessed young men and women breaking out of the death-grip of despair and depression, and others moving to a place of greater comfort with themselves-­being affirmed by friends, they have been enabled to befriend themselves. I have seen students come out of the tomb and into the fullness of life; almost like the magnolias on campus this week, they have blossomed and flourished. 
I wish I could help others understand what it means to be invited to be apart of that kind of lifegiving. I wish I could adequately explain it to the persons who accuse me of wasting my time working at Notre Dame. when I could have done so much more with my talents. I wish I could somehow tell them how my year has been filled with good news--because of people. Praise the Lord! 
a~~
'.-··:;, 
~· ... ...Iii"' 
.....; "-#: .. 

I 
i 

• 



ND-SMC Theatre: The Mikado 
Titipu Comes to South Bend 
Gilbert and Sullivan's Mikado, that witty, sassy, silly musical farce, is current­ly provoking titters, guffaws, and belly­
laughs  from  audiences  at  O'Laughlin  
Auditorium.  The  visit  of  the  •'more  
humane  Mikado"  to  his  liege  town  of  

Titipu has less to do with Japan than with the foibles of politics, law and manners in Vicrorian England. However, the central comic element of the play, the scramble to disguise hypocrisy and crass maneuvering under the appearance of legal action and good manners, is asuniversallyunderstood today as when the play was first presented in 1885. A kick-back is still a kick-back and conflicts of interests still raise up scandal. The wittily alliterative dialogue with its byzantine twists of logic keep the audience attentive lest a laugh be missed. Each character throws up a veil of rationalizations for his shortcomings and attempts to hide his flawed nature behind legalities and etiquette. The executioner is a general incompetent, thtirigenuous,is more self­serving thim ingenuous and the Mikado himself is a sadist. The plot is a ridiculous knot of deceptions that springs untied in the last scene to the relief of all. The musical accompaniment to all these maneu vers is a rich parody of Western musical moGes from maangal to grand opera. 
The production mounted by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre is a fun-filled visual treat. David Weber has broken with the tradition of cherry blossoms and Kitsch architecture to stage his scenes on red platforms against the stern black curtains. The only accessory item on this handsome set is a pair of unnecessary incense burners. The cast, clad in Diana Haw­field's pastel garments, appears first like tlowers and then like pl)rcelain figurines as it forms tableaus against thts stnktng setting. The entrance of the school girls of Titipu in the first act introduces the audience to the breathtaking moments that will occur again and again. The staging of "I am so proud" was an especially fine example of the integration of the nature of the music with the original setting. 

The opening night of the production inevitably displayed rusty transitions and slow lighting which are probably moving slickly by now but which unfortunately underlined the lack of movement in this particular staging of the play. The general tempo was slow and the tone of the production a bit meager in its sense of the slapstick and farce that delight Gilbert and Sullivan audiences throughout the world. The "porcelain" conception, so visually lovely, may have gotten in the way of the comedy. 
Ms. Hawfield has been absolutely archeological in her study of the cut of Japanese costume, but the use of soft fabrics for the execution of the garments, whether due to limitations of color choices or of budget, means that the costumes hang more like Western bathrobes and boudoir apparel than like Japanese street dress. Because of this lack of shape to garments, the crispness of gesture and silhouette that can carry so much of character and humor is possible for only a few characters, and the stylized "Japan­ese" gestures of the chorus only partly realize their impact. But the thoughtful planning of costume colors does create some spectacular stage effects. One scene in which it is especially evident that the costumeturns a terribly well done moment into an absolutely exceptional one is the dressing of Yum-Yum in her wedding gown 
marjorie and douglas kinsey 
.. 
f. 
\ 
.. ~





and the subsequent staging of "Brightly dawns our weo<ling day." 
The music, with the charm of youthful voices and execution, was certainly a delight. The coordination of voices and 
orchestra  was  commendable  considering  
the  extent  of  their  work  together  by  
opening night.  The orchestra seemed to  

depend on its drums and brasses which produced a particularly beautiful moment in "Mi-ya sa-ma," but there were other occasions when a few more strings would 
have filled out the sound. 
The"romantic" leads, Yum-Yum and Nanki-Poo, as played by Joan Martel and Timothy Keogh. both looked and sounded their parts. Not only does Mr. Keogh have an excellent tenor voice, but he turned the usually insipid Nanki-Poo into a figure of character and humor_ The "straight" parts in Gilbert and Sullivan can be terribly bland. Carolyn Popp's Katisha was brilliantly drawn. Her finely controlled voice is almost too beautiful in quality for the dramatic shrew that she plays, but her delightful acting pulls it altogether into an integrated performance. And the brassy characterization and bold voice that Doro­thy Hanraharbrings to the role of Pitti-Sing must be mentioned. Raymond McGrath as Pish-Tush performed well in some of the most delighful ensemble pieces in the play. 
It is heartening to realize that not everyone of the principals is a senior, and that there will be more time to hear from Mr. Keogh, Miss Hanrahan, and Mr. McGrath in future campus productions. 
.Louis Spisto portrays the Mikado with appropriate flourishes. His tendency to flat is irrelevant to the quality of a performance of such great spirit and glee. He )llanipulates his spectacular regal robes 


so that tie seems to ·swell up in height at moments of emphasis or diminish in size at will. The performance of '• A more humane Mikado" is a traditional high point 
in the p1ay, and it remains so in this 
production. 
Ko-Ko, the lord high executioner, and 
Poohbah, the lord high everything else, 
must carry the comic thread throughout the 
show. Michael Hawes as Pooh-Bah and 
Daniel Zimmerman as Ko-Ko put in • 
careful, hardworking performances, but 
they seem to have been given relatively 
straight and stiff conceptions of their roles. 
They have little movement, few chances to 
ham, but Gilbert gives them many richly 
comic lines and so they get their well-de­
served laughs. But the problems inherent 
in their performances are part of the major 
problem of the production, a tendancy to 
lean to the side of stasis, tableau and 
beauty at the expense of movement and 
farce. Mr. Zimmerman's performance of 
"Willow, tit-willow" should be mentioned 
for it gives him the opportunity to display a 
good romantic voice. 
The town of Titipu has come to South 
Bend, and the joyful, healthy cynicism of 
Gilbert and Sullivan seems as contempor­
ary as ever. The setting is pure fantasy, 
but the foibles are too real. Come to The 
Mikado and learn to laugh at yourself. 
[Editor's Note: The editor would like to apologize to Mikado director David Weber for failing to have a photographer get some pictures of the play. It was an unfortunate mistake that hopefully will not be repeated.] 
• 
---------·.:•·---r­
·' 

, 
Monday, May 1, 1978 
~l{)i~)Z.)T1~by 

Michael Molinelli 

·!SN r: HAY I 
~\ 
,~:--. -. . 
i .· 


: ~ I) 





I~ 1\~ 




Greyhound Rx· The cure for college blahs. 
\ 
t , 
"-...j 

It's a feeling that slowly descends upon you. The exams, the pop tests, the required reading, the hours at the library, the thesis­they 1/li Jn't go away. 
But you can. This weekend, take off, say hello to your friends, see the sights, have a great time. You'll arrive with money in your pocket because your Greyhound trip doesn't take that much out of it. 
If you're feeling tired, depressed and exhausted, grab a Greyhound and split. It's a sure cure for the blahs. 
Greyhound Service 
o,.. Round-You Can You To Way Trip leave Arrive 
Chicago $8.15 $i5.50 4:50pm 6:55pm Milwaukee $13.55 $25 75 9·20 am 1:15pm Detroit $17.15 $32.1](1 10:35 am 4·55 pm Cleveland $22.05 $4190 6.00 am 1:50 pm Toledo $13.40 $25.50 9·00 am 1:10pm 
Ast-. your ;:J.gent abo~~-~~,?r,t}g~-~:.,d~?.~~ures anrl return trrps J -----·--· 
Grey:,, .und 4gent Address Phone 

...______ ·--· 


\ 
I 
\, 
( 

1 
Primary elections 
tomorrow 
Primary elections for St. Joseph County congressional, state legisla­tive, judicial, county and to'Ynship offices will be held tomorrow. Students registered to vote at Notre Dame can vote in Stepan Center from 6 a.m. to 6 m. 

Graff highlights bloopers 
Film lecturer Herbert Graff will 
present a program, "Outtakes and 
Bloopers," Tuesday at 7:30p.m. in 
the Library Auditorium. The 
presentation is sponsored by the 
Academic Commission. 
Graff, who is curator of films at 
the Brooklyn Museum, will narrate 
a series of outtakes, goofs, and 
flubs from motion pictures, TV 
shows, and other visual media. 
The film clips will include several 
sequences consored from feature 
films of the '20's and '30's. Such 
scenes never reached the general 
public. 
Also in the program will be goofs 
and bloopers from TV shows, 
commercials. Army training films, 
and newsreels, with particular 
emphasis on outtakes from "Star 
Trek." 
Juggler honors 

contributors 
William Hassell and Michael 
Cantwell have been named winners 
of the 1978 James B. Carroll award, 
given annually for the best contri­
bution by an undergraduate to 
Juggler, the Notre· Dame literary 
magazine. 
Hassell, a senior art major from 
Dallas, Texas. won $100 for his 
group of poems. "Songs of the 
Half-Ship." which appeared in the 
Winter 1978 issue of Juggler. 
Cantv.·ell, a junior art major from 
Columbus, Ohio. won $50 for the 
cover design for the Spring 1978 
issue. 
[ I 

rr 

Nixon releases new book 
[Continued from page 3] aldeman to get rid of the tapes. In his recent book, Haldeman said Nixon ..toyed with the idea of destroying some of them and then rejected it." But. Haldeman said, "his real reason for not destroying the tapes at that time was that he just never dreamed it was possible that the tapes would ever be heard by anyone other than himself and, meantime, he could use them in 
ND life study 


merits award 

Maureen Read, a sophomore student at Saint Mary's College, has been awarded first prize for the best study of Notre Dame life in an essay contest sponsored by the Committee on the History of the University. Read will receive a cash prize of $50 for the study of the Notre Dame-South Bend relation­ship. 
Judges said Read's essay, "The Citv and the School,'' combined interviews, published and unpub­lished sources in an effective manner that proved to be both interesting and informative. 
The annual study was establish­ed in 1976 to encourage student research for the best study of an) aspect of Notre Dame life. The prize is awarded only if, in the judgment of the committee, a study of sufficiently high quality is sub­mitted in an) given year. 

Hunger Coalition holds interviews 
Interviews will be held for Hun­ger Coalition director~hips tomor­row at 7 p.m. Secretary, treasurer. social activities. dining halls. pub­lic relations. education. research. liturgy and Saint Mary's director­o.;hips arc open. The interviews will be 'leld in the Volunteer Services Office in LaFortune. 

~Il-l 
Watergate battle." 

The explanation provided the 
Senate committee by Butterfield 
was that Nixon wanted the tapes 
for historical purposes but the 
former president says now he 
believed no one would ever know 
about the recordings. 

While he was hospitalized for pneumonia, Nixon says, he again considered destroying the tapes but decided against it because others might follow the lead of Dean, the former White House lawyer who revealed the Watergate coverup story to federal prosecu­tors. He ~aid he felt the tapes might be protection in such an event. 
Ironically, the tapes helped con­vict Nixon's closest aides, Halde­man, John D. Ehrlichman and John 
N. Mitchell -all of them named with him as co-conspirators in the cover-up. Nixon received a full pardon from his successor, Gerald Ford. 
Lugar speaks 


to Seniors 

[Continued from page 1] Senators and Representatives are expected to make regarding per­sonal income and possible conflicts of interest, and the increasing interest people are showing in the voting and attendance records of their elected officials. Lugar sees the new emphasis on personal accountability as making politics "a different ballgame." He noted that politics. like distance running. now entails "a whole testing of the human spirit under the parameters of who we are and what are the limits of performance and endurance." In conclusion. Lugar mentioned that the challenges of the new rwlitics "are probably equally as formidable as the m.'w standards of the people who arc going to try to meet them." and thanked the Senior Class for allowing him "to o.;harc these thoughts with some people that I think can make a difference... 




I -J 

EDITORIAL BOARD
*The Observer 
I •n independent newspaper ser\r'ing Box Q l ony Pace Ed1tor-in-Ch1ef 
Steve Odland Managmg Editor lohn Calcutt Execut1ve Ed1tor Barb L,mghenry f: xecutive Ed1tor
I::::::::::~: :::11:::: t:·:~~:ents ot t~d~-~:::~~ty of 
l<osemary M.Jb Euitoridl Editor I 1\iotrP Dame ar.d Saint .\'\ary s Co!legP It does not neet~ssanly C.opv Editor
Phil Cackle'ri r!'flect the poliCies of the -tdmiriiS1•'<Hion ot e1ther instttu11on St Mary's f.:dstor
lerln Po~lev The nt>v.. s r5 reported as accuratel>y and as obwct1velv as Ann C<.~lt>s 
:--.~"'' s Ed1tor (JOS'.Ible f:ditonals rf>pres+>nt the opimon of ~~ m<1fOflty of the Md•.f' lt>v\.i<; Ne~r.,.<. Editorj i ditonal lloard Commentaries. oprn1cm" and lettPro; JrP the Oiant, \\ d~or '\lt;>w·; Edito•· ••1ew~ ryf th.e1r authors Column :-.racp i<> avadabk to dll Rctv o·hr'Pr• '.pnn~ Ed1tor rnernher~ ut the communitY. dnd tht' tr.-p e\~rt>'>Sion of Vdry1ng Urvdn Cndt:··. rl'<'1turf>S r ditor (:p1n1on~. on c..tmpu~. through lf'ttN5. ·-; ~ncoura~ed 

Monday, May 1, 1978 
the observer
First women's champs 


Lally's Team take·s hoop honors 
by Gregory Solman smoke had cleared, Lally's Team Associate Sports Editor had won the Women's Bookstore Title, 21-19, but not before each 
It was destined to be a classic team had picked up their share cf final: Helene Gorman's Team from bumps and bruises. Badin versus the team led by the "That was not a typical women's indomitable Carol Lally. When the basketball gamt:," commented 
'l-: • ·~, 

"'··· 
. 

Lewis Hall shut down Regina Hall 20-0 in the women's flag football cham ip. [Photo by Pete Romzick 
NOTICES 
Dissertations. manuscripts, etc ... typed. IBM Selectric II. linda's Letters. 287-4971 
Will do typing. Neat. ·accurate. Call 287·5162. 
Truck your goodies home to Rochester, NY. Call Frank, 232-3455. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. !.85 per page minimum. Call 232·0898 "When you want the Best." Resumes: $3.00/page. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Friday, May 5is the final day to pay your loan. All loans not paid will be turned over to Student Accounts. Penalty will be charged. 
NO EXCEPTIONS 
FOR RENT 

I • Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Rent my sun porch in fall. $40.00 per month. Ask for Patty in orders. 233·1329 nights. 
4-5-6 bdr. houses near Portage and Angela. Rent adjusted to number of students. These are well-maintained houses. Call 234-6688. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: First Basemen's Baseball Glove by Senior Bar. Ask for Andy. Phone 8891. 

Lost: Antique white shawl at the ND· · SMC Senior Formal in Chicago. Reward. 4-1·4628. 
Found: One Plymouth Car key on a black key chain with asagittarius metal lion. at the An Tostal Volleyball courts. Call Ted --3209. 
Lost: One blue fiberglass raquetball raquet with leather grip. Reward. Call 1605 if found. 
Lost: Blue NO Jacket at Nickie's. Reward Name in Jacket. 

Lost: Vivitar instamatic with priceless film at Senior Formal. REWARD! Karen 6782. 
WANTED 

Summer Church Camp Positions. Coun· selors for Boy's Cabins. WSI's with current certification. Some college background preferred. Good Salary. Send resume to 333 West Colfax, South Bend. Attn: Beem. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summwyear·round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information. Write BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14 Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Four Girls need rides to Kentucky Derby. Can leave Wednesday Evening May 3. Kathy4-1·4168. 
Looking for summer employment? Doc Pierces Saloon is hiring food servers, bartenders. and cocktail waitresses. Must be able to train immediately. Apply in person 2-6 p.m. 120 N. Main St. Mishawaka. 
Looking for 3 female roommates for the summer at Campus View Apts. Call Bertie 277-2798 
Female executive would like to rent furnished house or large apartment, 3 or 4 bedrooms. Childnm visit on weekends. Call Ann Brunston, 233-4101. 
Need Ride to Texas: Dallas, Houston, etc. Share driving at exp. 'll47. 
Female roommate prefer grad student summer or summer and next school year. Call Pam 2297 or 288-7468. 
FEMALE CAMP COUNSELORS 
NEEDED Eastern Area T.T.T. Camp, Wolcottville, ln. Contact: Ms. Pat Suede 130 Par 1\~r St. Cincinnatti, OH 45219. 
Need ride to Albuquerque after gradua­tion. Will share driving and expenses. Call Debbie 4-1-4898. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: One compact refrigerator In good condi· tion. Call SMC-4563. 
For Sale: 2 twin bedspreads • orange, brown, beige and white pattern-quilted­excellent condition! $32 for the pair. Call 4-1·4001. 
Stereo Equipment Major Brand discounts on fully guaran­teed, factory sealed audio-video eqpt. Elliot Enterprises Par;. court, Buchanan Mich. 49107. Call Niles Toll Free 683­0121. 
Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated materil'l at alow price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. · 
FOR SALE Refrigerator 4 cubic feet. Excellent Condition. Call 1249. 
San sui Receiver, nonworking condition. $50, Teac Reel to Reel, $130, Pioneer Speakers. $100, Garrard Turntable. S35 8338. 
i 

Lally, reflecting on her team's triumph, "They're usually played with a lot more finesse and skill. This was just a pick up game, and it really got out of hand." 
Susan Konkle, who scored the winning bucket on a perfect 2 on 1 pass from Lally, agreed, "it was a little too rough, but fun." 
The hard-fought game, which preceded the men's semi-final, saw Lally's Team (Carol Lally, Sue Konkle, Margaret McMenamin, Terry Grace and Erin Burns) given a hard time for the first time in the tournament, as they had previously 
Leo's Last wins 

[Continued from page 8] "Suds" Sudkamp more than made up for it with his hot hand as the Chumps Too cruised to the finals with a 21-18 victory. Sudkamp finished the game with 10 hoops while Hanzlik recovered to drop in seven.. Bruce Flowers excited the tournament with a five point per­formance while Bill Seeger also hit for five baskets in the losign effort. 
The special Bookstore Awards will be announced by Commis­sioner Leo Latz today and will be published in tomorrow's paper. 
STEREO CAMPUS REP WANTED! 
Hungry entrepreneunal type needed to sell name brand H1-li. car stereo. TV. etc to friends &faculty Tremendous earn1ng poten­hal Send for applicatoon by malllflg th1s ad to 
MUSIC/SOUND DtST., DEPT. C·178 6 730 SANTA BARBARA CT !:!ALTO. MD 21227 

Refrigerator  for  sale.  6  month  old  
compact Price Mimi 6723.  n egotiable.  Please  call  

"73 Vega" Chev. 2-door, Bids accepted. NO Credit Union 283-6262. "MILLI­CENT" 
"n Firebird" Espirit 3 speed -AM-FM. 8 track stereo $3,999.99 NO Credit Union 283-6262 Millicent 
"75 Ford Elite" 2-door, green, AM­Radio, A/C. 12,273 Miles. $3,500.00 NO Credit Union -283-6262 Millicent 
"75 Audl Foxy" Type 2S, 2 door, 19,151 Miles.' Bids accepted. NO Credit Union 283-6262 Millicent. 
1&11 Mobile Home [Monarch] 70x14, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, village Green Parlt Skirted, $7,999.00 Call Millie. NO Credit Union-283-6262. 
Great furniture buys. Couch, desk, chairs, tables call 288-5182. 
1977 Nova-4 door Air, PS, PB, AT, V-8 AM Radio with speakers, 6,000 miles. If interested call 272-3572 after 5 p.m. 
PERSONALS 

Student Checks cashed with SMC/NO 10 at Georgetown Pharmacy, Georgetown Shopping Center or Mar Main Pharmacy. 426 N. Mich. 
SMC-ON '79 Picnic SMC club house ~ May 3rd. 
Mr. Don Miller, Dr. Charles Peltier, Dr. Peter Smith: 
MISSION ACCOMPLISHED! We celebrated at the Senior Bar. We had a drink for each one of you, a drink for graduation, a drink for each question we couldn't answer, and one for the road ... and.... hie! 
Cauchy Investigator and Numerical Approximations of Solutions to Differential Equations. 

P.S. Even when you fall flat on your face, you're still moving forward! 
FIFTH FLOOR REGINA NORTH: · We're back to normal (sweet. loveable, smiling). Just don't bug us! MOMS. 
Ken, Ski, at 11. Gl)()(j luck on the CPA Exam. Boots and the Belle 
John Rodock: How are your l.rfph nodes? Too much bubble gum???? .. ?? Two ReinDEAR 
Chris Reddick: 
I was going easy on you Saturday. Didn't want to embarrass you. How about a rematch? 
Experienced 

won, 21-:, 21-3, and in the semi­of Carol Lally would do in Gor­finals against FYB's, 21-5. man's Team. Erin Burns, who 
Gorman's Team was not about to played an outstanding game, came fold so easily, however, as play­back with a bucket to make it 20-17, maker Helene, along with Jane and Gorman's team was on the Politiski, Chris Burns, Mary Ryan verge of elimination. and Sarah Devine kept the game Jane Politiski brought Gorman's within three points throughout the Team back with a clutch foulshot, entire second half. and Mary Ryan scored from inside 
Underneath, it was a battle be­to make it 20-19 before the LallyI tween tall Mary Ryan and domina­Konkle combination won the game ting Jane Politiski. Politiski, a for Carol Lally's Team. varsity player, had a crucial basket "It was the first game where nearing the end of the game to things really got out of hand," make the score 19-17, when it commented Lally, "but we really appeared that the slick playmaking enjoyed the tournament." 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCIT •DIT •LSIT •&MIT ...__ 

• •OCIT ·liT· SIT 1MB I, II, III·ECFMI·FLEI·VQE 
NArL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Progrerq & Houn 
...,ere IS • ••ffnnKetft 
For Information Please Call: ~~i[
Collect MPUIN 
West Lafayette EDUCATIONAL CENTER 317-463-7541 TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

Serving Bloomington. Indianapolis, South Bend For IDeations in other dtiea 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223·1182 
Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lu1ano, Switzerland 
Register now for summer M(:AT class. 
Dear Sandy, Anne, Val, AI, Joe, Larry, Craig, JT., Jim, Tim, Annette, Brother Gorch, Ceil, Mark, Jana, Mary, Tary, Terri, Linda. Pat, Greg. Bill, Meg, Carrie, JP, Marti, Steve, Martha, Tony, Jim, Ed, Tim, Barb, Pte, Phil, Diana. Linda, Joyce, Karen, Don, Jean, Carlos, Bob, Dan, Marci, Flo Ann, Oebbi and Father Ted: HOW YA ODIN? 
Fine Bill 

Happy Belated Birthday to Gale Wara­pius from 1011! 
Mom, Welcome to SMC. Hope you have a terrific time. Love, Mac 
Need a graduation gift for a friend? FREE puppies and kittens -take your pick! CALL 2n-2520 after 3 p.m. 
Mother's Day Is May 14. Give the one you love a puppy or kitten. 272-2520. 
Haircuts, trims, styles, cheap! Call ­Betsy, SMC 4530. 
Augusta Hall Residents to VOTE FOR: 
Lynne Ewald • President Maryann Cooke -VP May 1st! 

Artist to help Illustrate book of poems to be published this year. Call John Monday or Wednesday. 6-10 p.m. 
23U364 

Seniors! I Alumni-Senior Picnic Is coming -llltHit with grads from '28 to '78 at Stepan on Saturday from 11a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. Beer and Brats provided by YOUR Alumni Auoclatlon-BE THEifEI 
Get in style! Excellent cuts! Reasonalbe prices! Call KIM 2n-o615. 

Paz, Hope Connie and a free trick Pig will have cheered you up. 
Budda 
May my enemies love women; 

May my friends delight In boys.Propertlus (Deece) 
AI, 
Happy Blrthdl'fl 

l.M, Ana, Lydia and Unda 
AI, Wish 1 could be with you on your birthday! Hope your dl'f It grutl 
All myiM, Uncia 
JLB and BIZ. 

Congratulations! I never thought a simple trip to Tulsa would lead to such thtngs ... Now I'm convinced you AKt both crazy! Good luck anyway. 
sc 
Abraham, 

Stomach problems, huh?? No wonder, with Band L, Eggs and Beer, Chili, Beer and stale doughnuts. Take another hit of helium? Go for It! How about Brian's Nickiburger? 
Your Accomplices 
Sue Marget-You are In our thoughtll Get Will SOON ...ERI Karen and Jullt 
There once was agreen MGB, Who needed a new owner you see, So buy a new toy, It will bring you extreme joy. (and so will the money for me) Excellent Cond. 4-1-4981. 
CREST IS THE UGLIEST. 

All those who still owe me for CJF t-shirts please Pay ASAF. BARBARA 
Pte Wee gets "burnt" In the shower In Chicago. 
Pee Wee ruins his John TmoHa pants In Chicago. 
Pee Wee gats gin and tanlcld by a fat lady In Chicago. 
Stay tuned for future Pta Wee advtn­tum. 
Kay, Happy 20th Birthday. with love, 
IIJ" 
Kay, Happy Birthday to the best matchmak· er on Campus. Martt 
John Rooney, Congratulations and thank you. 

John, Tracy, Hutch, Tom, Paul, Starsky etc., etc., etc. for the rest of the 200 people on the An Tostal committee ­Congratulations on the BEST ever. know you worked hard, but how did you arrange the weather? This AN Tostal will be (ln)famous for years! 
OREST IS THE UGUESTI 


~~~----------~------------------------~--~-------------~~----------------------------------------~-------------­
Monday, May 1, 1978
the observer
8 



Leo's Last captures Bookstore title 
Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
And the last shall be first! Leo's Last, the 256th and Onal entry Jn the Bookstore Basketball Tourney VII, became its champion yesterday by defeating Chumps Too, 21-18. Irish varsity hoopster Jeff Carpenter led 
the scrappy final entry to the title. 
For the Bookstore Champions it was a destined finish. The winners had the perfect formula for a "Behind the ACC" champion. Just be the Bookstore Commis­sioner's roommate, name your te.am after him, surround yourself wtth one of the best athletes on campus and throw in the biggest guy on the football team and it's hard to avoid success. 
Actually. none had a tougher draw than 'Leo's Last. In the quart_er~nals they drew a hea~y favonte m Strappamasquon and hts Combat Wombats, and barely sur­vived 22-20. Things only got tou~her in the semi-~nals where Leo sLatz took on two-ttme defend­ing champion TILCS, but Carpen­ter t·ame out so hot that Dave Batton and his cohorts barely knew what hit them dropping this contest 21-13. 
Nobody expected Chumps Too to be around for the final either but the determined efforts of Irish standout Biii Hanzlik and Tom "Mr. Bookstore" Sudkamp made yesterday's confrontation possible. 
pers" between Hanzlik and Car­
penter. 
Under less than perfect weather 
conditions, both teams started off 
slow as the wind played tricks with 
outside shots. As the teams moved 
in to penetrate fouls accumulated. 
On this day the only thing lower 
than the shooting percentages was 
the temperature. 
Leo's Last jumped out to a 2-0 
lead on baskets by Rusty Lisch and 
Carpenter but Chumps Too tied it 
minutes later on two hoops by 
Hanzlik. This was the first of eight 
times the game would be tied as 
the lead changes hands four times. 
When Hanzlik ·continued his heroics with a turnaround jumper from the corner Chumps Too had the biggest lead of the day at 6-3. It did not last long as Leo's Last responded with baskets by Lisch, McDaniels and Carpenter, the three men that were to control the rest of the game. 
The Champions-to-be took over the lead as Chumps Too got into early foul trouble, sending their opposition to the charity stripe early in the game. Hanzlik 
It also set up a ''battle of scrap_~.-..-.~~~!~.?.~~.?. ...·.~-~~-..~~~~-t-~?.~~?.~ ...~.1~~­
Frank LaGrotta ·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=· 

Batton and the Bone 


Tim Bourret and I sat in the empty bleachers of the makeshift ''arena 
behind the ACC and talked about how Bookstore Basketball had grow 
over the past seven years. 
"I only wish Vince Meconi could see all this," Bone (as Tim is called b 
his friends) wistfully remarked. 
Chances are, Vince, the "Father of Bookstore Basketball," wouldn 
have recognized the tournament he and Fritz Hoefer started in 1971. 
There were only 53 teams then and nobody even mentioned bleachers. 
Presently boasting 256 teams, complete with concession stands, Su 
Times articles, a P.A. system and "national exposure" a la Spent 
Illustrated, I guess you could say that Bookstore Basketball has grown intv 
a "monster" of sorts. · 
So maybe it's better that Vince wasn't here yesterday. He'd ha\ 
probably jumped out of bed, grabbed his umbrella and headed for tl' 
bookstore. After all, isn't that where Bookstore Basketball was meant t 
be played? , 

I thought about all that last night as I walked to the bookstore after th final "dunk" had been "slammed" behind the ACC I stared at the ol wooden backboards, their bent rims still hanging. despite the abus t~ey've taken from the Hanzliks, Laimbeers and Woolridges--and realized that even though the faces and places of the tournament were changing, the "Spirit of Bookstore" remained the same. 
No one was a better example of that spirit than Dave Batton. Bookstore's Most Valuable Player for two straight years, Dave led his team to 22 consecutive wins and two Bookstore titles before·it all ended in Saturday's semi-final round. His team took it on the chin. 21-14, at the hands of a highly-inspired Leo's Last. Yet when it was over, Batton had to laugh. still realizing what many of us sometimes forgot: Bookstore Basketball is supposed to be fun. 
And I think Batton had a lot of fun with it. While others found cause to 
"mix it up a little" during a game, Batton never as much as threw an 

elbow--e\en to retaliate for the one he'd just taken in the gut. 
It bec~me a regular practice, for both players and spectators, to berate the guys who donated their time to referee the games. Batton refused to get involved. The closest he came to expressing his displeasure with a close call was booting the basketball, soccer-style, over the heads of the crowd; and of course he was smiling all the time. 
Whenever a player hit the pavement, whether teammate of opponent, Batton was usually the first one over to help him up. And while I must admit I never saw anyone go out of his way to hurt another player, I didn' see too many like Batton, who went out of his way to prevent an injury--even if it meant letting the other guy score. For that he was critidzed for not "taking the games seriously enough," or for not having that "killer instinct." 
Dave Batton won more Bookstore Basketball games than any other player )n the history of the tournament and watching him play I got the feeling that he enjoyed every one of them--as did the guys playing with him and against him. I know I enjoyed watching him. In the last four years. no one did more for Bookstore than Dave Batton... 
. .. except for Bone Bourret. Tournament commissioner for two years. Bone passed the reins to sophomore Leo Latz this year and assumed the title ""Commissioner Emeritus." The word means, "one who has retired or resigned honorably from a position of trust, but remains on the rolls." 
Sorry. Mr. Webster, but that hardly describes Bone. He contributed as much to Bookstore '78 as he did to '77 and '76 and, while Latz did the bulk of the work this year (and did a great job, I might add) he 'II he the first to admit he couldn't have done it without Bone. Whether he was needed to score a game, settle a dispute or offer advice, it was good to know that Bone was around. 
Fe'" people love Notre Dame or give as much of themselves to make it a better place than Bone. He is a real example of what we loftily refer to as a "Notre Dame Man." When he hangs up his clipboard, Notre Dame will miss him and he'll miss Notre Dame; and believe me, he'll be hard to replace. 
So I thought a little bit more until it started to get dark behind the bookstore. As I turned to leave I realized I was wrong about one thing... "Vince, you really should have been here." 
• ; / 
....__...J 


from all over the court bringing and 
end to the first half on a driving 
layup, his seventh basket of the 
game, giving his team an 11-10 
lead. 
In the second half, Leo's Last 
began crashing the offensive 
boards in order to pick up foul shots 
and improve their poor shooting 
accuracy. Carpenter's tip-in follow 
up of three missed shots put Leo's 
Last in the lead for the rest of the 
game. Ha.nzlik switched on de­
fense to cover Carpenter but to no 
avail. 
"I figured if I stayed away from 
the basket I could keep Hanzlik 
outside and then we could get the 
ball into Lisch underneath," ex­
plained Carpenter. The strategy 
worked as Lisch hit three consecu­
tive buckets for Leo's Last stretch­
ing the lead to 19-15. 
. Chumps Too comeback bid came 
to an end when the man they call 
''The Road Runner'' hit a floating 
left handed hook giving his team 
bragging rights to the playground 
of Notre Dame. 
Leo's Last shot 36 percent from the floor while Chumps Too con­nected on 38 percent. Hanzlik took high honors with nine baskets in 19 attempts and Jed all rebounders with ten. Carpenter finished with eight hoops in 14 tries and boasted seven rebounds, second on his team only to Steve "Tiny" Me ­Daniels' eight boards. 

In Friday's quarterfinal action, Tripuka scored 11 baskets to no Rusty Lisch gets leo's last off on the right foot toward Bookstore avail as Strapamasquon and the Championship VII with a driving layup over Bill Hanzlik. [Photo by 
Combat Wombats fell to the future Pete Romzick] champs. Dana Snoap continued T.B. Express I were eliminated nine baskets was enough to offset with the hot hand for Leo's Last by the Butcher Brothers 21-19 as the balanced attack of Orlando with eight markers while Lisch Bruce Flower's eight for twelve Woolridge. Jim Stone and Kenny dumped in five. shooting coupled wiht Bill Seeger's Harris who each scored five hoops. 
.,..._.._..._,....,________._,.._...._,....._._......,._~.........,.....,.._...._......,.__._,...._,_,._,..._,___......,._, Tracy Jackson found his shooting 
Bookstore Boxscore 
LEO'S LAST  REB  FG-FGA  Ff-FTA  
Carpenter  7  8-16  2-2  
Lisch  J  5-10  1-4  
McDaniels  8  2-8  2-2  
Snoap  4  0-1  
Mooney  4  1-9  
TOTAL  26  16-44  5-8  
CHUMPS TOO  REB  FG-FGA  FT-FTA  
Hanzlik  10  6-12  J.J  
Sudkamp Morris  5 J  5-13 3-10  
Marcel  5  2-10  1-1  
Connors  6  0-4  2-4  
TOTAL  29  16-49  4-8  

touch too late in the game as the defending champion TILCS hung on for a 21-19 win. Jackson shot PTS. nine for 25 while Mark Norman 
added four baskets and seven 8 rebounds in the losing cause. Joe 6 Montana led the winners with 5 seven of 15 shooting while Dave 2 Batton contributed six markers. 0 Bill Hanzlik put on an outstand­21 ing performance while leading 
Chumps Too to a 21-17 win over 
PTS. Tappa Kegga Brus. Laimbeer and Forystek each notched six hoops for the Brus but Hanzlik stole the show
9 

with eight baskets and a tine
5 

defensive showing.
2 
Hanzlik got off to a slow start in
0 

Saturday's semi-final game against
2 

the Butcher Brothers but Tom
18 
[Continued on page 7] 



National Champs to be honored 
NOTRE DAME, IN--A limited Joseph O'Brien. co-chairman. number of tickets will go on sale ""We have an elaborate program next week for the dinner banquet arranged with some special fea­on Friday night. May 5. honoring tures that we think will make this the 1977 Notre Dame football event a link different," O'Brien champions, it was announced by said. "Along with the presentation 

Phelps finishes recruiting, Mitchell picks Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME, IN--Notre Dame 

basketball  coach  Digger  Phelps  
announced  today  that  Mike  Mit­ 
chell from  San  Bruno. California,  

has signed a national letter of intent to attend the University and participate in the Notre Dame basketball program beginning with the 1978-79 season. 
Mitchell possesses impressive prep credentials. The 6-2 backcourt competitor led his Capuchino High School team to a 23-4 record with an average of J 1.8 points-per-game and an 81 percent free throw shooting mark. He was chosen as Player-of-the-Year in Northern Cal­ifornia. 
Mitcherll, described by Phelps as "a complete ball player, .. dealt out almost 8 assists and grabbed 5 rebounds a game while shooting at a 62 percent clip during the regular season. In one game. the classy guard scored 55 points by drilling 21 of 26 shots from the floor and 13 of 14 free throw attempts. Only a 'veek earlier, Mitchell popped in 23 of 28 attempts from the field and 6 of 8 from the line for a 52-point total: As a result of his senior season performance. Mitchel1 was showered with post-season awards ands honors including selectionto Scholastic Coach's All-America team. 
"'We wanted one good guard for ne\t year to rerlace the loss of Duck Williams and Jeff C<!r­penter." Phelps reported. "and I think we were successful in finding a young man who will have very little trouble adapting to our style of play and fitting in with the type of young men we have on the team. 
""We have five excellent fresh­men coming back from last season along with five other upper class­men, all of whom are good people and can play. Consequently, our intention all along has been to accept only one freshman for next season." 
of the four national championship trophies some of the players them­selves "ill participate in the pro­gram which should liven up the evening. We think we have been able to put some entertainment together that may be a little unusual for this t:vpe of affair." 
Special guests invited to help salute the national champions include Vincent Depaul Draddy. chairman of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame, Cooper Rollow of the Chicago Tribune representing the Football Writers Association of America. Joe Mooshil of the Associated Prt'SS, Ed Sainsbury of United Press International and James Brock. vice president of the Cotton Bowl Association. 
O'Brien also reported that the national championship rings will be awarded during the evening. The dinner banquet tickets are $20 each and may be purchased from the Notre Dame ticket office. 
The post-dinner program will be open to all Notre Dame students. The festivities will begin at p. "'" 
p.m. and include a slide she highlights of the National 1 pionship season. Students wii o-··· admittance by showing their ND 
J.D. cards and will then be ushered to the padded seats. Entrance will be through gate 11 and the b2.nq1Jd will end at approximately 10:30 p.m. 



