
Plans for improved social space 
f . 
unaffected by overcrowding 


' 
···~.···. 
. ~ / 


by Kevin Richardson 
A feared shortage of on-campus housing will not jeopardize the proposal to construct residence hall social space, according to Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for Stu­

--....... ·-dent Affairs. The proposal, ap­
.....~.. 

proved by the Board of Trustees in March, will go into effect as planned this summer. 
Speculation over the fate of the proposal surfaced at Wednesday's Campus Life Council (CLC) meet­ing when the housing shortage was discussed. Paczesny laid to rest rumors that the plan to increase social space in Howard, Morrissey, Sorin, Fisher, and Pangborn halls would be scrapped to accommodate the expected over-flow of on­campus students. 
"When we presented the proposal to the Board in March, an attitude of 'lefs see what can be done' was taken," Paczensy stated. "The only way the proposal would be shelved now would be if they strongly objected to it." 
Regarding the housing shortage, 




an independent student ne~spaper ser~ing notrl' dam£' and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 127 Friday, April 28, 1978 
I 
J3y SG Commissioners 
I 
Comp ticket policy survives vote 
I 
by Bob V arettoni Senior Staff Reporter 
The Student Government Board of Commissioners, in a meeting last night in Lafortune, voted down a motion to discontinue Student Union's (SU) complimentary con­cert ticket policy. 
Although the motion was defeated I ,, S-2. the Board agreed to publish the actual policy. adopted Tuesday 
! 
by SU's Steering Committee, in order to elicit student opinion of it. 
Andy McKenna, student body president, and Mike Roohan, stu­dent body vice-president. both voted to discontinue the present policy where SU members receive complimentary concert tickets as a reward for their work. 
The issue, which caused some 
controversy for Student Union last 
semester, was brought before the Board of Commissioners as a result of an "initiative," a petition signed by 200 undergraduates. 
The initiative put nine other issues before the Board of Commis· sioners, which consists of Mc­Kenna, Roohan, Judicial Coordina­tor Jayne Rizzo, SU Director Bill Roche, Student Government Treas­urer Pat Mason, Hall President's Council (HPC) Chairman Chuck DelGrande, and HPC Representa­tive Dan Darfler. 
One of the other issues the Board considered was the purpose and value of the Council of Communica­tion, a council McKenna said he formed "to disseminate informa­tion" and act as "our own Sturtent Government staff." 
Darfler noted that there seemed to be "a duplication of duties" be­tween the members of the Council and the hall presidents. Del-

Stay of prosecution granted pending future behavior 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 
Seven off-rampus Notre Dame students were arraigned Wednes­day in South Bend Superior Court on charges stemming from the illegal sale of alcoholic beverages. The student<; were granted a stay of prosecution pending future behav­ior. 
According to the students' law­yer. Richard Hunter. the pro<>ecu­tion will formally drop the charges against the students in six months if there is no further trouble. Hunter moved for the six month "dispo~ition" of the case in a hearing presided over by Judge Walton Spencer. 
"For all intents and purposes, the charges are dropped now." Hunter stated. 
The seven student~ were arrest­ed the evening of April 14 at a party held at their home on 823 N. Notre Dame Avenue. South Bend Police responded to a complaint about the party and discovered that the students were collecting money for admission. 
When the students admitted to not having a bartending license or carding facilities, they were arrest­ed. taken to the South Bend Police Station, and booked. 
Two of the students were charg­ed with "selling cups" without a permit, while the other five faced charges of conducting unauthoriz· ed dealings. Each of the students received back $50 in bail money after the hearing Wednesday. 
Stephen Bitter, who was charged with selling without a permit, noted. "I think whoever filed the complaint got their point across. They wanted to discourage parties and they did a good job. But I don't 
[continued on page 7] 
Paczesny said, "We're looking into the problem of the over-subscrip­tion of students in regards to on-campus housing and hope to have a solution soon." 
The social space proposal was drawn up after a study commis­sioned by the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees was completed by Student Govern­ment. The study updated a similar one made two years ago by the now defunct Student Life Council. 
In conducting the study, Student Government asked the rector and hall staff of each dorm being evaluated to make recommenda­tions for possible social space improvements. 
Consultants from a construction company then estimated the cost of proposed renovations at $6,200 for all of the S dorms in question. In order to carry out the improve­ments, it will be necessary for some students to be relocated either in Holy Cross or Carroll Halls. The entire proposal calls for the reloca­tion of 29 students. 
A committee appointed by the CLC investigated the specifics of moving displaced students into Carroll Hall and found that 30 additional students could be com­fortably added to the hall. This could be done for an estimated cost of $2,000. 
The committee report suggested that "in the future, an intensive study should be made un improving the efficiency of resident room space as well a<; social space in Holy Cross Hall. In general, between 20 and 30 more students could be added to Holy Cross without any construction what­soever." 
The report c0ntinued, "The large amount of social space strongly suggests the possibility of con­struction in the future. There are a number of other halls aside from those mentioned that are in need of more social space. A more thorough study is definitely in order." 

Grande added -that is seemed McKenna was "just making more work'' for himself. 
"The hall president is the one who has to be on top of everything,'' DelGrande said. "If he has to rely on more and more people, informa­tion is going to become clouded.'' 
McKenna noted that most of the Council's work consists of hanging posters, delivering letters, and issuing surveys, "and I don't think the hall presidents should be working for Student Government in this way." 
Rizzo, however, claimed that overseeing this kind of work is part of a hall president's job. McKenna agreed to re-evaluate the function of the Council, modelled after a plank in his campaign platform, at the next Board of Commissioners meeting on Tuesday. 

The Board recommended two ways that the 1977-78 Senior Bar profits might be used. Rob Civitello, one of this year's Senior Bar managers and one of the students who presented the initia­tive to the Board, estimated this profit to be $25,000. 
The Board of Commissioners moved that a priority should be placed on maintenance of the bar. 
After maintenance costs have been paid, the Board recommended putting the rest of the money into an emergency scholarship fund. 
DelGrande explained that such a scholarship would be given to a student in the event of the death of a parent. 
McKenna also proposed that the board recommend setting up a scholarship for minority students, but this motion was not passed. Rizzo said she would feel "uneasy•• about setting up a minority scholar­ship, adding that it would not be of enough benefit to the Senior Class 
[continued on page 7] 



These heaming Badin women receive their trophies after defeating Pangborn to take the An Tostal Trivia Bowl championship on Gentle Thursday. For related story see page 4. [Photo by Beth Corbin]. 
• ··~-·1 the observer FridayI April 28, 1978 


On Campus Today 
:~~-::::s·:~ !~~i~.~~~b~~:.::;~.by friends of the library at 
12:15pm 2:15pm 
3 pm 
3:30pm 
3:30pm 
• 
3:30pm 
4 pm 4:30pm 5:15pm 
7 & 10 pm 8pm 
8pm 
8:15 pm midnight 
biology travel series "Malesia," by paul weinstein, spon. by bio. dept., rm 278 galving aud. 
reilly lecture "theory: mixture of complex liquids," by dr. keith gubbins, spon. by cheg, rad. lab. conf. rm. 
art talk film series "phillip pearlstein" spon. by art gallery, art gallery 
ceremony college of eng. honor awards ceremony, 
cce aud.  
lecture  "introduction  to  dante's  paradise,"  by  
barbara  reynolds,  u  of  nottingham,  spon.  by  
medieval inst., 715 mem. lib.  
philosophy  of  religion  lecture  third  lecture  on  

"truth," by peter geach, spon. by phil. dept., lib 
lounge. arrival of gen. george patton, spon. by arotc, south quad. 
lecture "the transfer papology," by daniel gottlieb, purdue u., spon. by math dept., 226 ccmb. 
mass and supper, bulla shed comic drama "come blow your horn," by neil simon, by student players and student union, nazz, $1 
nd/smc theatre "the mikado," by gilbert & sullivan, call 284-4176 for tix. 
recess 101, an tostal, stepan center grauate recital kim lasarenko-piano, spon. by music dept., crowley recital hall. 
midnight movie "blazing saddles," south quad 
an tostal events south quad • graffiti wall, all afternoon; egg toss, 12:15; jello toss, 12:15; people pyramids, 12:15; face shaving, 12:30; suitcase race, 1; keg toss, 1 :30; treasure hunt, 1 :30; slave auction, 2; frisbee toss, 2:30; car stuffing, 3; needle in haystack, 3; impersonation contest, 3:30 saturday, april 29 10 am ceremony nrotc annual parade and awards, address and reviewing officer brig. gen. vincente blaz, adj. to stepan center. 
5 pm basketball bookstore semi-finals, an tostal, behind ace. 
8pm nd/smc theatre "the mikado," by gilbert & sullivan, o'laughlin aud., call 284-4176 for tix. 
8pm voice recital anita hampson, spon. by music dept., crowley recital hall 
8 pm comic drama "come blow your horn," by neil simon, by student players and student union, nazz, $1 
8:15 pm senior piano recital paul gales & david kollar, spon. by music dept., lib. aud. 
9 pm irish wake an tostal dance, stepan center an tostal events road rally, 9 am; decathlon, 9 am; road run, stepan center, 10:45 am; picnic, 11 am-1 pm, north quad; mud pit events-chariot race, 12:45; greased pork chop contest, 1 :30; mud volleyball finals, 1 :30; tug of war, 1 :30; mud pillow fights, 2:30; media mud volleyball 2:30; snake race, 2:30. football field events-an' tostal bowl, 2:30, sea swordfight, human pyramids, flour blowing contest, wheelbarro~ r~ces, halftime; earthball soccer, 4 pm; 1 pm-m1dmght, carnival sunday, april 30 
1-7 pm  carnival, an tostal  
1:45pm  walk & talk for life span. by nd/smc right to life,  
main circle  
2 pm  senior recital cheryl pesdan-voice,  spon.  by music  
dept., little theatre  
3 pm  composition  recital  mark  Stoneburner,  spon.  by  

music dept., crowley recital hall 
5 pm 
bookstore finals an tostal, behind the ace · · 
5 pm nd chorale concert featuring "r~quiem" by faure, spon by music dept., sacred heart 
7 pm 
irish pub, senior bar 
7 pm slide lecture innsbruck candidates, spon by mod. & class lang. dept., lib. aud. 7:15pm vespers/dedicatory organ recital prof. david craig­head, eastman school of music, sacred heart 
8 pm play "las calaveras de tiburcio vasquez," spon. by, mecha, wash. hall 
8pm foreign film "all screwed up," by lisa wertmuller, spon. by int. festival showcase, cce aud., $1 
8 pm slide/lecture"a glimpse of the alps," by vera profit, spon. by mod. & class. lang. dept., lib. aud. 
9 pm newspaper recycling span. by student government, residence halls 
Children's Home worker accused 

of molesting 15-year-old .resident 
LADOGA IN (AP] • Three months after the State Welfare Department said there was no child abuse at the Indiana Children's Christian Home here an employee is in custody for allegedly molest­ing one of the residents while the investigation was being conducted. 
Charles T. Garringer, 32, Ladoga, was charged with child molesting in Montgomery Circuit Court yes­terday. Bond was set at $5,000, an attorney was appointed but no date for arraignment was set. 
Garringer was arrested Wednes­day by Indiana State Police after authorities at the home fired him for allegedly molesting a IS-year­old resident. 
Montgomery County Prosecutor Harry Siamas said he understood authorities at the private home for SO residents were not going to report the incident to his office or to the county welfare department. 
"The evidence indicates the mol­esting was an on-going thing between Garringer and the girl,'' said Siamas. ''I'm disappointed authorities at the home had plan­ned to just fire the man without making a report to our office." 
Authorities at the home had dismissed Garringer because of the alleged incident. He was arrested as he prepared to leave the home. The state welfare department's child welfare services division be­gan its investigation last Dec­ember. Its January public report 
Conservation Laws lecture today 
John F. Kennedy. director of the Institute of Hydraulic Research at the University of Iowa, will lecture today "On Conservation Laws for Momentum. Energy, Discipline, Joy and Other Things." 
Kennedy will speak at the College of Engineering's annual Honor Award Ceremony, which will begin in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation auditorium at 3:30p.m. The public is invited to attend. 
The ceremony recognizes recipi­ents of the College's Honor Award and the Outstanding Teacher Award as well as students who have received special honors dur­ing the academic year. 
The 1978 Honor Award recipients include Kennedy. a 1955 Notre Dame alumnus who also is profes­sor of fluid mechanics at Iowa; and John Gilbert, plant manager of the Basic Engine Plant. Caterpillar Tractor Co .. in Peoria, Ill .. who received a Notre Dame bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering in 1942. 
John T. Ryan, Jr., Notre Dame trustee and chairman of the board of Mine Safety Appliances Com­pany, Pittsburgh, will also receive the award. 
*Tt1e Observer -., 
Night Editor: Sandy Colson (Help!?!) Asst. Night Editor: Maureen Flynn, Bob Brink 
layout  Staff;  Dawn  Miller,  
Anne  Griffin,  Sherry  Mum­ 
mert  

Editorial layout: Rick LaBelle Features layout: Kevin Thad­deus Paulson Spvrts layout: ·Tony Pace Typists: Mards Nevin, Mark Rust, Theresa Richeson Night Control: K•tie Brehl, Mary McCauley Day Editor: Tom Nilsson Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Ad Layout: J.P. O'Connell Photographer: Beth Corbin 
The Observer Is published Mon· day through Friday except durinG exam and vaatlon ~rlods. The Observer Is published by the studenh of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcltased for no per year (S 1 o ~r semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, lndlana, 4UU. 
The Observer Is a member of the A IIOCiat.cl Prell. A II repro­duction rittttl are reserved. 
said no evidence of child abuse was 
produced.  
The  state  investigation  began  
when  a  former  employee  of the  
home reported there were  numer­ 

ous cases of abuse, including an incident in which a 12-year-old girl was forced to burn her own fingers as punishment. 
At the conclusion of that probe, home administrators said they were "satisfied" with results. 
"We had no doubt of the out­come. We're satisfied that they have done an exhaustive investiga­tion of our facility , " said the president of the institution's board of directors, Bob LaFollette of Kokomo, in January. 
LaFollette also said in January that an internal investigation had been conducted and the former employee's charges were shown to be "flat out misrepresentation." 
Siamas said yesterday that he asked for the state police investiga­tion after a ':private citizen'' came to him this week with complaints of abuse. 
The probe of the institution was headed by Lucille Devoe, the state's director of the child services division. 
"Privately we met with the board of directors and asked for further evaluation in terms of two house parents and Garringer," she said. 
"We didn't  do  anything  further  
because  we  had  no  conclu~ve  
proof."  

Carnival stop added to shuttle 
The ND-SMC shuttle will operate on its usual weekend schedule for An Tostal weekend, with the addition ofone stop at the east gate of Stepan Center. 
Because of the additional stop, the bus will board only once per run at the Main Circle before proceeding to Saint Mary's. 
The stops will occur in the follow­ing order: Grotto(ND}, Stepan (out east gate), Library circle, Main Circle, Grotto(SMC). 
w I t-NO SMC  THE MIKAOO Gilbert and Sullivan's sparkling operetta. April28,29 May 4.5.6 8:00p.m  
THEATRE  Otaughlin Auditorium  

Phone 2844176 S1d!Fac/Staff: $2.00 
~J-1(-\J ~t\~l~J(: 
is looking for a 
Ill~IBlJIION M~~AGER 
for 1he 1978-79 school year 
B. fPW ~~J~ every other J=rit:tav 

Tltf-1 t-' \ S,\L\IUEB Pf~Tfl(li\ M • •~>1 h.:w~ car 
for ~~ information . .:'f'nt;d Scholastic at 741q ·v .~ke ~ 3500 r-~~---...;;::::t......:~ 


APPLICATIONS 
for all SMC Students interested in Organizing and Implementing the 1978 
******************** 
* * 
~ New Student Orientation ~ ~ may now apply in ~ 
******************** Student Activities Office 166 laMans 
Deadline 
... 


Monday, May I 
................................. 




Friday, April 28, 1978 
the observer 


Scaffold collapses killing workers 
SAINT MARYS , WV. (AP) -West Virginia Gov. Jay Rockefel­diameter at the base was 360 feet truck ramp inside the tower and the 'he lost four of his five sons, a Fifty-one construction workers ler extended his "deepest sympat­and the tower was to be 430 feet tall four other workers with him ran to brother, two brothers-in-law and a plunged screaming to their deaths hy" to the families of the victims when finished. the center of the tower. All those nephew. The surviving son, Ro­yesterday when a scaffold inside a and said: ''Tragedies of this mag· In Washington, a spokesman for on the ground escaped injury, he bert, 35, who said he was also power company cooling tower col­nitude are difficult to understand the Occupational Safety andHealth said. employed at the construction site lapsed and crashed 168 feet to the and even more difficult to accept." Administration said 13 inspections Just after the accident, 21 bodies but was not on the scaffolding, ground. Eight of the victims were Rockefeller's office said it was the of the Pleasants Power Station site were wrapped in khaki blankets identified his brothers as Gayle, 32; members of one family. worst non-coal mine Cl.)nstruction since 1973 had revealed "numer­and lined up on plastic sheets at the Ronnie, 30; Ernest, 28, and Miles, 
"They knew what was happening, accident in state history and poss­ous violations, both serious and plant site near this Ohio River town 25. but there wasn't anything they ibly U.S. history. non-serious," but he said he did in northwestern West Virginia, 70 The Steeles and other weeping could do about it,'' said one A spokesman for the International not know what they were. miles upstream from where the relatives gathered at the makeshift witness. Union of Operating Engineers in Spokesman James Foster said the Silver Bridge collapsed killing 46 morgue at the fire station in 
"They just fell like dominoes," Charleston s~id the scaffold was most recent inspection was a year persons on Dec. 15, 1967. Belmont to identify the victims. 
said another. "I looked up and the kind kno·Nn as a "slip form" ago and that the operations of The tower was to be part of the As the-dead lay inside the dark, men were screaming and holler­because it hangs over the top of Research Cottrell Inc., the sub­power plant complex which draws grey concrete building behind the ing." forms into which concrete is pour­contractor building the tower, had river water to make steam. When City Hall, state police ushered in 
Many of the nearly 1 ,000 other ed. The forms, and the attached never been inspected. completed, the tower will be used the relatives to assht them in construction workers at the Pleas­scaffold, are continuously moved In Bound Brook, NJ, Thomas to cool the water before it is identifying the bodies. ants Power Station site rushed to higher as the tower's height is Buontane, director of corporate returned to the river. A young woman in her early 20s the base of the huge cylindrical increased. communications for Research Cot­George Morrison, an engineer left the building in tears on the arm concrete tower and began clawing Lyle Corder, a spokesman for trell, said the company inspected said: "I was on the ground when it of an older man. at the twisted mass <·f steel and Monongahela Power Co., which the scaffold daily. He said it was started making noise. It was just a Research Cottrell said most of the rubble in a vain eff01 t to rescue operates the power plant, said the ''a complete mystery how this can roar." victims were from New Jersey or their co-workers. SL-.te police said men had poured the 28th layer of happen...it's impossible." Lee Steele, of nearby Shultz, said West Virginia. all 51 men who were atop the metal concrete Wednesday and were John Peppler, a laborer standing scaffold died. working on the 29th layer yesterday on the ground in the midd!e of the 
"There was so much stuff there morning. tower when the disaster occurred, 
LeBrun presented award 
on the ground that you couldn't see ·'As the 29th was being poured said the scaffold, wrapped around the bodies,'' said Bill Hess, a today, the 28th disintegrated and the inside of the tower, began 

for excellent youth service
22-year-old laborer. "There wasn't the bolts that were holding the peeling away and then fell. a sound coming from it. They were scaffolding pulled loose away from Peppler, 38, said, "The first thing by Joanne Dowd His contribution to scouting and 
torn up so bad, I couldn't tell it,'' Corder said. I heard was concrete falling. I had youth development included worklooking at them whether any of my The tower was one of two at the just sent a basket...up. I looked Paul LeBrun, a senior at Moreau with Scout Troop 453 in Southfriends had been killed." plant. The first had been com­over my left shoulder and I could Seminary,has been presented with Bend, and as a CCD teacher at
A local fire station was pressed pleted. see it falling. I could see people 
the St. Joe Emblem Award for Little Flower Parish in South Bend. 
into service as a temporary morgue Monongahela Power said the stru­falling through the air and every­
exceptional service to youth. The In addition, LeBrun established awhere relatives came to identify the cture was about one-third com­thing falling." 
award is the highest honor given by youth program in South Bend fordead. pleted. A spokesman said the Peppler said he jumped under a the Catholic Church committee on delinquent children ages 10-16. scouting.
LeBrun, from Chievres, Belgium, Fifty children from the South received the recognition at Holy Bend area currently participate in

Keenan rep wins Mr. Campus 
Cross parish church last Sunday. the program. Activities are sche­duled twice a week in the Moreau
The award was presented bySusie Meyers Cross, who sang a Broadway contest because it didn't" drag. Joseph M. Crowley, auxiliary Seminary gym and are directed by 

Mike "Spike" Scott was award-melody for his talent, and Tony Everything went very smoothly." bishop of the Ft. Wayne-South LeBrun. Canoe and camping trips ed the title of "Mr. Campus" last Aquilino, Mr. St. Ed's, who per-The first "Mr. Campus" contest Bend diocese. are planned under his guidance. night before a near-capacity crowd formed two original ballads. In was held in Stepan Center in 1975. LeBrun's reaction was one of LeBrun was nominated by the at the Angela Athletic Facility. addition. Mr. Morrissey, Tim In addition to Thompson, past surprise. "Surprised to say the local Catholic Committee on Scout-Scott, a junior from Keenan. cap-Twardzik, entertained the crowd winners include Tom Young and least," he commented. "I never ing to the national selection com­tured the title, competing in a field with a strip tease in the swimsuit Mike Natale. This was the first even thought I was in the running mittee. The national committe of ten contestants. competition. year that the contest was held at for it." LeBrun is the youngest chose LeBrun for his outstanding 
Scott said he was "awfully Other contestants for the "Mr. Saint Mary's. person ever to receive the award. work with scouting in South Bend surprised" by his victory. "I just Campus" title were Mike Goonan,r-:.---------:::=:::::::-:------------------------:::-------::~ 
came out here to have a good time. Mr. Dillion; Bill Kica, Mr. Fisher; { This is the second year I've entered and Kevin Hawkins. Mr. Carroll. . an~os...a 
the Mr. Campus contest," he In addition to the talent competi-'-' '-' added. tion, the contestants were judged 
nd 
Jim Speier, Mr. Grace, was in the areas of swimsuit and ~._ \ ~ ~ • chosen first runner-up. In the evening wear. The five finalists of \\1~&~ talent competition. Speier per-the competition were also asked to • formed what he termed "a Notre respond to the question, "Why do 1·~ • FEAiU~(\! Dame love song." Second runner-you want to be Mr. Campus!" ~ • UNfTV up was Jose Marrero, Mr. Pang-Jules Thompson, the 1975 Mr. --, born, who did a popular dance for Campus, acted as master of cere-~\OR\/A" AAt>~ l~Y, ~At>E his talent. Bruce Leibert, Mr. monies for the event. Thompson .) Cavanaugh, was awarded the title entertained the audience with sev-1-/AlDNV.J.\.1 of "Mr. Congeniality" in last era! impersonations, including l night's contest. Yogi Bear and Howard Cosell. 
Last night's program also in-Judges for last night's Mr. ~Ut-jf)~0 eluded Walt Strauser, Mr. Holy Campus contest were the presi-) '1 
'lntro to Parad·lse, dents from the wo~en·s halls at l-?pm
Notre Dame and Samt Mary's. Terry Smith, chairman of theIecture t0 day contest: was quite pleased with the 
"An Introduction to Dante's competition as a whole. "We were Paradise" will be the topic of a really impressed with the facilities lecture given by Professor Barbara here, and with the help S2int Reynolds, of the University of Mary's gave us," he noted. Nottingham, at 3:30 this afternoon John Rooney, An Tostal chair­in Room 715 of the Memorial man, agreed that the contest was a Library. The lecture is sponsored success.' 'This was as big crowd as by the Notre Dame Medieval we've ever had," he stated. "I Institute and is open to the public. think everyone reallyenioved the 
~UNN'/ SA1URPA'{ 
RoAD P\ON -ROAD PiAU,'{ 
PE~-mAL.O~ 
PlCN lG--.: 
-C~lOf RU.e.-l:OO 4R~f.D p~ .... \~ ?0 
AUD evEN\'7 
11>4 oF \\/ AR 
A~J..A.-r AN~~ f\eL-Q 

4 the observer Friday, ~pril 28, 197-a 

Badin tops Pangb~rn · B~~!.~~I!!!!!!bE~f!.'!!,_Pionship 
win the An Tostal Trivia Bowl championship yesterday afternoon on South Quad. A crowd of approximately 200 people watched the final matches. 
Badin's team, captained by Leslie Fair, led early in the game. The lead was never decisive though, and the contest was deter­mined only by the bonus question. 
With Badin leading 36-35, the question was asked, "What was the name of Roy Rogers' Singing group?" Before the choices could be given, Fair gave the correct answer "Sons of the Pioneers" to give Badin the final decision 41-35. 
The rest of Badin's team includ­ed Helene Gorman, Jane Politski and Ellen Dorney. The alternates were Francis Ortega and Cathy 

Pangborn's team consisted of captain Mike Henry, Joe Donovan, John Stavola, Tom Duffy, and alternates Greg Meredith and Mike Moore. 
Earlier in the day Pangborn edged Stanford to take the men's title. Although Pangborn led throughout the match, the game was exttemely close. This contest, too, was decided only by the bonus question. 
Pangborn led the Trivia Bowl in the voiciferous number of fans. Loud cheers came from the enthu­siastic crowd every time the Pang-born team captured points. 
Badin trounced LeMans to reach 
the finals. The women's champ­
ionship was not close enough to 
warrant a bonus question. 
Brademas to speak at dinner 
A benefit dinner for the newly­ 
opened shelter for victims of family  
violence will be held Sunday at the  
Century Center, beginning at 5:30  
p.m.  The keynote speaker. will be  
Rep.  John  Brademas  (0-IN).  
Brademas  is  chairman  of  the  
congressional subcommittee on  
Select  Education  which  is  now  
consideringlegislation to deal with  
the  prevention  and  treatment  of  
t  
I  
1,  
f  
I  
r  
I  
r  

violence in the home. The evening will begin at 5:30 
p.m. with cocktails (cash bar) on the Century Center island. Dinner will be served at 6:30p.m. Tickets are available at the Century Center box office or through members of the Shelter Advisory Committee. 
An original watercolor painting by Michiana artist Harold Zisla will be auctioned at the dinner. A recorder consort will perform at the dinner. 
"The Shelter" is intended to provide temporary emergency housing to victims of family vio­lence. It opened its doors April 3 to provide shelter to victims of abuse. 
Federal CET A funding is being used to employ fulltime staff at the shelter, but money is needed for daily operations. Proceeds from the benefit dinner will be used for such expenses, including food and utilities. Trained volunteers with the staff are counseling victims and operating the shelter. 
this fnday and every friday 5:1 s mass & supper 

·•'hP·•· ,.,,!), ·'· t 

• 
~ 



FRIDAY·~~ 7 & 10:00 
SATURDAY 8:00 only no1e time change
\_:1.00 in die n8Xl 


._Commission votes unanimously to ban 'cancer-causing' benzene 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The Con­sumer Product Safety Commission 
, continued a government assault on benzene, voting unanimously yes­terday to ban the suspect cancer-causing agent found in many household products. 
The commission took the action 
in response to a petition filed nearly a year ago by the Health Research Group, an organization 
affilated with  consumer  advocate  
Ralph Nader.  
But  the  organization  criticized  

the commission for delaying the ban, saying it had allowed busines­ses to continue selling products containing benzene instead of or­dering them off store shelves. 
Earlier this year, the Labor Department's Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) had laid siege to benzene, both citing it as a threat to public health. 
Yesterday's action by the con­sumer agency will not become effective until sometime in the fall because of legal procedures to put the ban into effect. 
'Blooper' program here Tuesday 
Film lecturer Herbert Graff will present a program, "Outtakes and Bloopers," Tuesday at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The presentation is sponsored by the Academic Commission. 
Graff, who is curator of films at the Brooklyn Museum, will narratt~~ a series of outtakes, goofs, and flubs from motion pictures, TV shows, and other visual media. 
The film clips will include several sequences consored from feature films of the '20's and '30's. Such scenes never reached the general public. 
Also in the program will be goofs and bloopers from TV shows, commercials, Army training films, and newsreels, with particular emphasis on outtakes from "Star Trek." 
Benzene, a clear, colorless liquid said in an interview that "many with a rather pleasant odor, is used "cases of leukemia and bone in such consumer products as paint marrow depression are the result of thinners, rubber cement, artist's sluggard action by the commis­supplies and household cleaning sian." solvents. Earlier this year, the Occupa-
Most prodl!cts containing ben-tiona! Safety and Health Adminis­zene have been reformulated by tration (OSHA) cited evidence that their manufacturers who have sub-b
exposure to enzene can cause 
stituted other ingredients in antici-cancer, and it announced regula­pation of the ban. tions aimed at tightening industrial 
In a statement issued prior to the safety rules. Implementation of the commission's expected approval regulations have been delayed by yesterday, the consumer group court litigation, however. said delays in its implementation have caused new cases of cancer. Dr. Eula Bingham, who heads 
"If the commission had banned OSHA, said at the time the action benzene at the time of our petition, was taken because "exposure to many people would not have gotten benzene presents a cancer danger· leukemia," said Dr. Sidney Wolfe, specifically, the hazard of develop-director of the consumer group. He ing leukemia." 
0-C Director responds to 'misrepresented, criticism 
by Ed Moran 
Off-Campus Housing Director Darlene Palma responded last night to charges made by new Student Government Off-Campus Commissioner John Fitzpatrick in an article in Tuesday's Observer. 
"I stand on the record of the Off-Campus Housing Office," she said. 
Fitzpatrick had charged that the office is "ineffective in its dealings with students'' and that it ''fails to warn students...about landlords known to be unscrupulous.'' However, last night Fitzpatrick said Tuesday's article misrepre­sented what he was trying to say. 
In answer to the charge the the 0-C office is ineffective in its dealings with students, Palma stat­ed that the office does the best job it can. "We think the office is effective," she said. 
Commenting on the charge that the Office fails to warn students about landlords who are known to be unscrupulous, Palma stated, "We are not deliberately withhold­ing information on any landlord," and then added, "Besides, what does he (Fitzpatrick) mean by 


Sundav Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
5:15 pm Sa1urday Vigil Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sunday Rev. John Cimino, 0. Praem. 10:45 a.m. Msgr. John J. Egan 12:15 p.m. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C  
7:15 p.m. Vespers and Recital  Rev. Giles Pater  

teach a 
Call: 283 -7757 or 283-1158 
Registration deadline -April 28 
Virtually any topic acceptable 
Sponsored by: 
Notre Dame S1udent Union 
unscrupulous anyways?" 
"We tell every student planning to move off campus to bring us a copy of the contract before they sign. If they don't, what can we do?" Palma said. 
Palma said that Fitzpatrick has limited experience in dealing with the Off-Campus Housing situation and isn't qualified to evaluate the Office. She added, "Once he becomes familiar with the system, he will be able to make some constructive criticism and imple­ment new policies." 
Fitzpatrick claimed that the tone of Tuesday's article was overly harsh and misrepresented what he was trying to· say. 
"I didn't say that the Office was ineffective," Fitzpatrick explained. ''I just said that it could be more effective, and that more can and should be done. With the forma­tion of the new Off-Campus Task Force, we hope to accomplish more." 
Fitzpatrick agreed with Palma that he isn't experienced enough to determine whether or not the Office is effective. "It's just that l never made such an assessment in the first place," he said. 
Greased chop 
substituted for 
pig in contest 
The Greased Pork Chop contest will be held at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow on the mudfield. Teams that registered for the cancelled Greas­ed Pig contest are automatically registered for the Greased Pork Chop contest. The winning team will receive a dinner for six at the Boar's Head. 






. Friday, April 28, 1978 


(i.e., a quickjaunt to your favorite package emporium or :_. :::: :._.-:..·.. ::-:.. ·.·· ·.-.-·.-~ ::.<-.·.-.··.: ~~-~ wateringhole) and ends by downing the mouritains (i.e., slow slaking swallows of the brew that is Busch). 
qr However, between those two points lies a vast area of personal peccadilloes sometimes called technique and sometimes called methodology (depending on your major). Hence, this ad. gr Sipping vs. chugging. Both have their merits, of course. But generally speak­ing, except for cases of extreme thirst or a leaking glass, sipping is the more prudent practice for serious, sustained mountaineering. cn: Next~ the proper posi­
tion. Some swear by sit­.:· ting; others by.. standing. Suffice it to say that the most successful mountaineers are flexible, so you'll f~d. both sitters and standers. (Except on New Year's Eve. 
to find a sitter. ) qr 
sionally a neophyte will 
·... : sprinkle salt in his Busch; :·.·. others mix in tomatojuice~· and a few on the radical 
fringe will even add egg. 
While these rnanipulati can't be prohibited (this is, after all, a free country), they are frowned upon. Please be advised that purity is a virtue, and the natural refreslunent of Busch is best uncorr1prornised. 
qr Finally, there's the issue of containers. Goodtaste dictates a glass be used. But bad plann.ing sometimes prevents that. Ifyou find yourself forced to drink from the can, you should minimize this breach of etiquette. Be formal. Simply let your little finger stick out stiffly (see Fig. 4 ). Happy Mountaineering! 
Dorrt just reach for a beer. 
Head for the mountainS. 
~Anheuser-Busch. Inc St. Louis. Mo 

Friday, April 28, 1978
the obyrver 
6 

Wayne returns to California after four week hospitalization 

SANTA ANA, CA [AP] • Movie good guy John Wayne, topped by a cowboy hat, trotted eagerly from a private jet at Orange County Air­port yesterday and declared: "It's sure good to be home." 
The burly 70-year-old actor, re­covering from surgery to replace a valve in his heart, was embraced by his two daughters as he left the jet that flew him in from Boston. He was accompanied on the flight by his two sons, Patrick and Michael, and a doctor from Boston. 
"I've got a close family, thank God," Wayne told a throng of reporters. He added that the good wishes from his fans across the country had been so moving that "I want to cry.'' 
He said he was tired after his cross-country trip and his four­week hospitalization at Massachu­setts General Hospital. His Cali­fornia doctor met him at the airport. 
''I'm going to go to my house, lie down for a couple of days and then start working on a script," Wayne said. He told reporters in Boston that the movie, entitled "Beau John." was "a helluva good story." 
When he first went to Boston, he said, he feared that he might not survive the operation, in which his heart valve was replaced by a similar valve from a pie. He checked into the hospita( March 29 under his given name, Marion Morrison, amid secrecy and securi­ty. 

"I wasn't too sure, but I'm sure glad now I went back there," he said. "About two weeks ago, two guys were cutting around, putting a new valve in my heart, so I'm not exactly jumping with joy.'' 
The operation was ordered to replace a ruptured mitral valve, which separates the atrium from the ventricle of the heart. Blood was leaking through the damaged valve and flowing back to hi1. lungs, compounding Wayne's chronic respiratory problems. 
1-Hall softball 
All men's interhall softball teams can pick up rainout schedules today at the Interhall Sports Office in the ACC. 


An exrtra performance of Neil Simon's comedy, Come Blow your Hom!, has been scheduled for tonight in the Nazz. The revised performance schedule is: Tonight 7 and 10 p.m. 
Saturday 8 p.m. only Maureen Flynn, director of the Student Players production, said the extra show has been scheduled "because of the enthusiastic recep­tion we got from last weekend's audiences." 
Flynn described the show as a story about two brothers, the older of whom introduces his naive sibling to the swinging bachelor life at the same time he himself is on the brink of settling down. 
Come Blow Your Hom! opened on Broadway in 1961 and rapidly 
became  playwright  Neil  Simon's  
first hit.  A movie version in 1963  
starred  Frank  Sinatra  as  Alan  

Baker and Notre Dame graduate Tony Bill as his younger brother, Buddy. 
The Student Players production is sponsored by the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission. 

•
I 

SPEUAL EXPORT 12 oz hotdes 
I 
DRAFTS 
i 
( 
be sure you're 21 







$4.50 qt 
$1.59 6pk~ $5.05 case 
$2.79 12 pk cans or lDtdes 
Court requests prison for older delinquents 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -The In­
diana Court of Appeals called on 
the legislature yesterday to estab­
lish a new prison facility for 
juvenile delinquents over age 18. 
·'There seems to be no suitable 
institution provided for the commit­
ment of a young person who is 
adjudged to be a delinquent by the 
juvenile court but is too old to be 
sent to the Boys' School or Girls' 
School.·· the court said in an 
opinion reversing a Harrison Juv­
enile Court order committing an 
18-year-old delinquent ot the State 
Farm. 
''Under our present law, nothing 
short of action by our legislature 
can provide such a place," the 
court said. 
The evidence showed that Christ­
opher Michael Jennings and an­
other boy were declared juvenile 
delinquents by the Harrison 
County Juvenile Court in 1974 after 
they pleaded guilty to car theft. 
Both youths were placed on proba­
tion until they reached age 21. 
Two years later, Jennings, now 18 
years old, was charged with in­
flicting injury during a robbery in 
Dubois County. As a result of that 
charge, the Harrison County Court 
revoked Jennings' probation and 
sentenced him to one year at the 
Indiana State Farm. 
He appealed on grounds that as a 
juvenile delinquent, he could not 
be sentenced to an adult cor­
rections facility. 
The appeals court agreed. 
Jennings could not be sent to the 
Boys' School, the court said, be­
cause Indiana law does not permit 
anyone 18 years or older to be sent 
there. 
The only similar facility is the 
Indiana State Farm, the court 
agreed. However, only persons 
convicted of crimes can be sen­
tenced to the farm. 
"Jennings had not been convicted of a violation of criminal law," the appeals court noted. "He had merely been adjudged a juvenile delinquent. The court erred in sending him to the State Farm." 
The court said the only solution 
for handling Jennings' case is to 
find an alternative to imprisonment 
or cite him contempt of court for 
disooeying the terms of his original 
probation 
If Jennings is found in contempt. 
the court said, he then could be 
sent to a public institution. 

f 
I> 
> 
~ 
I; 
,. 
~· 
t 
I. 
' 


VODKA 
McSORIJEYS 
BLATZ OLD SI'YIJE 
--~ 
Friday, April 28, 1978 
7
the observer 

Afghanistan rebels claim overthrow of Daoud 
NEW DELHI, India(AP) -Rebel forces in Afghanistan claimed yes­terday to have overthrown the authoritarian government of Pres­ident Mohammed Daoud after ar­mor and air attacks on the presi­dential headquarters and other government buildings in the capital of Kabul. 
The rebel claim, broadcast on Kabul Radio, could not be imn\ed­iately confirmed -many lines of communication were cut to the landlocked, mountainous nation. But in London, diplomatic dispat­ches and reports of monitored radio broadcasts from the Afghan capital said the armed forces had seized control and "wiped out" Daoud's family. 
Many bodies were seen in Kabul's streets after several hours of heavy fighting, said diplomatic sources here in contact with eyewitnesses in Kabul. 
Gen. Abdul Qadir, who described himself as chief of defense forces, ored here that a military revolu­tionary council had taken control of the Texas-size nation of 20 million people, wedged between Pakisb 1 , Iran and the Soviet Union. 
"For the first time power has come into the hands of the peop­le," he said. "The last remnant of imperialism and tyrrany of the Mohammedzai has been put to an end." 
The Mohammedzai is the clan of both Daoud and former King Muhammad Zahir Shah, who was overthrown by Daoud in 1973. 
Western diplomats here said the broadcast might indicate the coup leaders are politically to the left of Daoud. They said Qadir previously had been known only as vice commander of the air force. 
Qadir declared the new regime would follow a foreign policy of ''Strict'' non-alignment. Afghanis­tan traditionally has maintained close ties with the Soviet Union, its major tradi partner, but also has 


Here's the unique, day-by-dayaction approach thats helped thousands to find the jobs they want! 
DAYS TO ABETTER JOB 
by nationally recogn1zed employment specialist TOM JACKSON 
You can launch a successful job campaign by followmg this tested and proven step-by-step technique. It has been devel­oped, improved, and expanded through direct application on college camp•..Jses. with professional groups, and in work· shops throughout the country. Before you spend hundreds of dollars on counselinq and placement services, try this easy­
1 
to-follow, action-oriented approach for only $6.95 ... and be ·ready for the most pleasant surprise of your life' 
_________________... ._. _________
At your bookseller ordirect from publisher 
CN 4' 18 I

1 HAWTHORN BOOKS. 260 Madrson Avenue. New York. NY 100161 I enclose check or mo. for$ 1n payment for the book 
I

1 1nd1cated below 
I

I 158013 __ 28DAYS TOA BETIER JOB ($6.95) 
I

I Please include 60¢ per book to cover postage and handling. 
I 

I Name ____ I 
I I 
Address .

I I 
~ C1ty ____State _ .. _ .. ___ Zip __ . ___ : 
L (A dd s~les lax where ap~:l•cable) 1
-----------------------------.., 
States. 
In Washington, the State Depart­ment said U.S. Ambassador Theo­dore Eliot ordered the 1,300 Amer­ican residents of the Afghan capital to stay inside their homes. Department spokesman Hodding Carter said there was no report any Americans had been hurt. 
Western diplomatic sources here said the rebels met strong resist­
ance after launching their attacks at about noon on the former Royal Palace compound, which includes the residence of the 69-year-old Daoud, the Defense Ministry and the army's First Corps headquart­ers. The anti-Daoud forces blasted ~he buildings with tank guns and Jet fighter rockets, they said. 
The French Consulate, adjoining the presidential complex, was re­ported destroyed, apparently by stray shellfire. Officials in Paris 

said four or five persons normally work in the consulate. There was no word on casualties there. 
The heavy fighting lasted three hours, then slackened, the sources here said. After that, numerous armored vehicles were seen mov­ing through the city. 
Orthodox churches celebrate Easter, favor set feast date 
NEW YORK [AP] -More than a tendencies of western churches. month after most Christians cele­That confident and vivid imagery brated Easter, Eastern Orthodox was in rich effusion in the Orthodox believers are doing it. The reasons rites as they marked events of are meshed in the quirks of time Easter week with moving liturgies and religious history. But for about of the cross, the icon of Jesus and six million Americans, Sunday is tapestried bier of burial, the dra­the "great day." matic chants and chorales, mourn­
"Christos Anesti" -"The Lord is ful and then exalting at the Risen!" Greek Orthodox Archbish­resurrection, a darkened cathedral op Iakovos resounding that gospel flaming with countless lighted can­news in a message to be read in dles, in procession. 
Saturday midnight services. "And in that blinding flash that "What joy, wha~ beauty that bursts from the empty tomb, all message contains! What warmth, things tremble and are suffused what radiance, what spirit!" with light,'' Archbishop Iakovos 
There is a touch of the poetic, of says in his message. "As the rays graphically affirmng the inexpres­ofthe sun disperse the gloom, so is sible in the eastern churches' sorrow banished from men's faces, 
response to the mysteries of faith, displaced by the transforming glow contrasting with the rationalizing of resurrection jov." 
Arrested students call for 'better communication' 
[continued from page 1] know why they went that far with it. .. Bruce Martin, who was also arrested, agreed with Bitter. "I didn't think they would prosecute. I understand the situation in the neighborhood. We're transient, we've got nothing invested here," he remarked. "But arrest wasn't necessary.·· Martin said that he and his houscmates always cleaned up after their parties and that they tried to keep the noise level down. He recalled, however, that a stu­dent party in the neighborhood the night before had gotten "out of hand." Martin also stated that his parents were upset the University had never contacted them about the arrests. ''The administration tells us that with 'in loco parentis' all rules apply equally to on­campus and off-campus resi­dents," he explained. "If the 
University is going to supervise us, then they should have gotten in touch with our parents." 
In light of the incident, Hunter said he talked to the local prosecu­tor about meeting with "people interested in setting up a commit­tee to provide better communica­tion about off-campus living situa­tions, including parties." 
T!-)e committee Hunter is helping to lrganize will indude: Notre Dame Judicial coordinator Jane Rizzo; Off-Campus Commissioner Thomas Fitzgerald; University Dean of Students James Roemer; a member of the prosecutor's staff; a representative from the Ombuds­man organization and the North­east Neighborhood Association; and Hunter himself. 
"I think that if the University is not going to allow parties on campus, they should help to set up policies and procedures for good lawful parties off-campus," Hunter re­marked. 

Men enrolled at SMC for .et;lucation degree
by Denase M1chlewicz The Saint Mary's student body is 
not  all  female,  according  to  Gail  
Mandell.  assistant  to  the  vice  
president of Academic Affairs.  She  

noted that two or three men, all recent Notre Dame graduates, go to Saint Mary's each semester in order to earn a teaching certificate. 
Designated as "special full-time students," the men receive Saint Mary's ID's so they can use the library. and usually carry a full load of classes. Such fifth years of study is necessary because Notre Dame otfers no education courses or opportunity for teacher certifica­tion. 
Mark Wurfel, a senior General Program major at Notre Dame, who plans to enroll in the special program next fall. stated that he is doing so because a sophomore year abroad, combined with his late choice of a major, threw him off sequence in education courses. 
Wurfel said he will attend Saint Mary's for one semester to do his student teaching and take three courses. 
Since the men do not receive degrees from Saint Mary's, but only teacher certifications, their enrollment has no effect on the college's all-women status, Man­
~· -· •• .) •• • . .. • ' ' .... .:: •. •.... • ... -. < ,~.. _.,. • • . ­
dell sa1d. 
The only Saint Mary's major that 
men cannot be prohibited from enrolling in is the nursing program. Mandell stated that since the nursing program involves federal funding, failure to admit men into· it would constitute discrimination. 
Retired prof dies at age 72 
LeClair Heells, a professor of international finance, money and banking at Notre Dame from 1930-1975, died yesterday in Mesa, AR, where he was living in retirement. He was 72. 
The body will be returned for burial to South Bend. The Welsh­eimer funeral home will be in charge of arrangements. 
Heells was born Nov. 9, 1905, in New Hartford, IL, and received his education at the University of Northern Iowa, Harvard Business School. Northwestern, and Indiana University. 
He served as chairman of the finance department from 1960 through 1970, and received the distinguished service award from the Institute of International •Bank­ing in 1964. 
He is survived by two daughters, a ~~n-and seve~ grandchil~rep_.. _. 

The differences in dating Easter between eastern and western churches is an age-old problem. and Protestantism, Roman Catholi­cism and Eastern Orthodoxy all have indicated they favor a com­mon date, both for practical clarity and to show forth unity · rather than division ·. of faith. 
But officially authorizing steps still are to be taken. 
Under the present pattern, west· ern Christianity, Roman Catholi· cism and Protestantism, hold their celebrations on the first Sunday following the first full moon after the vernal equinox on March 21. 
Even in this tradition, because of variations in the moon's cycle, the Easter date varies over a month-lng period of spring, anytime from March 22 to April 25. This year, it was early · March 26. 
Eastern Orthodoxy, including 14 branches in this country such as Ukrainian, Antiochian and Car­
patho-Russian,  uses  the  same  
formula but with  one  exception  ·  
Easter  always  must  come  after  

start of the Jewish Passover. 
Some time age, the World Coun­cil of Churches polled Protestant denominations and found most favor a fixed date for Easter, the Sunday following the second Sat­urday in April. That would make it always fall between April 9 and 15. 
The Vatican has indicated wil­lingness to settle on such a date. 
Eastern Orthodox leaders also have favored a common date--as a "sign and a reminder" that Christ· ianity is one, says Orthodox Ecu­menical Patriarch Demetrios I, spiritual leader of all Othodoxy. 
But no action is expected until Orthodox bodies convene their long-awaited Pan-Orthodox Synod, long planned but still unscheduled. 
Commissioners to vote on guidelines 
[continued from page 1] 
as a whole. 
The recommendations will be put in letter form and voted on at the next meeting. If passed, the Board will present the letter to the Office for Student Affairs, which controls the bar's profits. 
At last night's meeting, McKenna appointed Rizzo, Darfler, Roohan, and Roche to draw up student guidelines for the new provost and vice-president for Student Affairs, positions which might be filled at the May 12 Board of Trustees meeting. 
"We should look at the guidelines the Search Committee used to make its recommendation, and criticize those guidelines from a student's point of view," Roche said. 
These guidelines will also be presented to the Commissioners at Tuesday's meeting, when they will vote whether to approve and pub­lish them before the end of the week. 
Stepan site of Recess 

Relive your childhood tonight from 8 to midnight at Stepan Center. Join the tricycle race, throw darts at your favorite campus notables, play jacks, hula with hula hoops, etc. Free ice cream will be served. To get in, simply bring your Notre Dame or Saint Mary'sID. 
R• .. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..,.-•••••••••••••••••••• 
...,.~~ !V• • • ¥6 •~ ~F• • ,,.• .rw..• • ...• -~ • w.-•I'••• • ...r•• • ....
opinion 

Another Look 
' 

at Taiwan 
As someone who studied and I must also agree that there is a East of Hong Kong, or, even lived in Taiwan for almost two relative lack of freedom of speech presently, on the mainland. years, I feel compelled to offer and expression on Taiwan. Indeed, Rodomontade aside, and in a less some response to the rather nega­I still remember reading copies of apologetic vein, I realize that Ms. 
P.O. BOX Q:
tory comments of Ms. Barb Newsweek on Taiwan which had all Breitenstein was honest in relaying Breitenstein in her recent article references to Communist China her first impessions, but it would "Nowhere Else But Taiwan, Snake neatly clipped out (one rather seem that she also betrayed a Juice and Propaganda.'' Although imagines an army of poltical cens­rather severe case of culture shock. it is perhaps too much to be ors somewhere in Taipai possesing Culture shock should not, how­
An Tostal 
expected from the fleeting impres­a limitless supply of scissors and ever, be an excuse for provincia­sions gained from a ten day Confucian penchant for neatness lism or failure to understand the excursion to a place as culturally and propriety). While not approv­true cultural, historical and politi­and politically complex as Taiwan, ing of such practices, it is possible cal complexity of Taiwan. More one expects at least a modicum of to appreciate the defensive and than anything else I think it can be This year, unfortunately, the journalistic balance and historical insular point of view adapted on said that this article constitutes one administration is trying to tell the perspective. Taiwan. In counterdistinction to of the best arguments for streng­students just what events are best 

There is indeed snake oil, prosti­the mainland it is at least possible thening Notre Dame's fledgling Slave auction not for their enjoyment, but for the tution (in most cases for American to buy Newsweek in Taiwan. Even commitment to Asian studies and image of the University. There are and Japanese visitors), propaganda moreso than this, there is a the overseas program in Taiwan. two prime examples ot interference and pollution on Taiwan as there is constant influx of students, busin­Americans all to often want China Dear Editor; this year. The first example is In Geritol, Mama Chickie, propagan­essmen and travelers --both Tai­to be a musum of cultural relics, a For the most part I am in Loco Parentis, or the Tuck-in Ser­da and pollution in this country. wanese coming back from the polynesian village of noble pagans, agreement with the events of An vice as it was originally entitled. Moreover, to take only one of these states and Americans --that insu­or a socialist paradise. Neither the • Tostal. I consider the occasion a The only reason this event wasn't items it should be mentioned that res a lively and open , although ROC or the PRC is any of these good one for raising money for a cancelled by the administration is pollution is a gift from the west private, political dialogue. Condi­things. worthy cause. However, the idea that there is nothing prohibiting it which is unfortunately aggravated tions are surely not ideal on If the sway of such imaginary of holding a "slave auction" is in DuLac, as long as the tucking in by a developing economy on a Taiwan, but it is striking that many visions is to be combatted, it is totally repulsive to me. occured before midnight; If it had small island with over seventeen accounts of travellers on the main­imperitive in the world today that The most blighted and diseased not been for this, the tuck-in would million people. It might also be land of Taiwan have commented Western higher education provide segment of America's history, that almost assuredly been cancelled. remarked that Taiwanese travelers with amazement at what seems to some accurate understanding and segment which exposed the unbe­Failing to get their way with to the U.S., especially those on ten be the utter lack of curiosity (or experience of Asian tradition. In lievable and monstrously inhumane tuck-in, the administration sunk day excursions, tend to equate unwillingness to ask out of fear) this regard it would be instructive side of the human nature, was their teeth into the greased pig American society and culture with about things outside of China, a to have some of our students who when thousands of human beings contest, and came away with pork San Francisco night Jife, gambling­phenomenon that is apparent even have spent a year in Taiwan were exploited through slavery. I chops. Dean Roemer cancelled the tables in Las Vegas, the pall of outside of private conversation. present us with their reflections on am sure that there is no need to contest for the An Tostal Commit­Gary, and the moral squalor of It must be said that Ms. Breiten­their experience. In the meantime recount the details of slavery as tee because he was afraid of Times Square in New York. This is stein does include a mote tempo­it is well to recall the Chinese we are all familiar with them. adverse publicity promised by the not very fair, but fortunately most rate short paragraph that stresses proverb that "empty vessel make Perhaps it is felt that America's Humane Society if the pig had been of them are not writing or speaking the positive side of Chinese culture the most noise" (chih che pu yen, era of slavery is so far removed that hurt. Little consideration was as journalists. and life on Taiwan. I suppose also , yen che pu chich). it can now be remembered with given to all the precautions taken 
As for comments on Quemoy, I that one would rather expect a 
laughter and mockery. Slavery is by the event chairmen to make sure agree that there is an abundance of Notre Dame student to mention the never a laughing matter. And let the pig would not be hurt. The militaristic silliness in the not too fact that the Taiwanese make a us not forget that slavery. in one Committee has decided to replace distant past. One might also recall good beer (it does) but not to form or another, still exists in this the greased pig contest with the the earlier more strident career of mention the cultural treasures of world today. People are still being greased pork chop contest. in Radio Free Europe and, for that the Taiwan palace museum. It denied their rights, people are still which a team of three blind folded matter, the use of American propa­should, however, be noted that living a life no better than that of an contestants chase after a pork chop ganda balloons in VietNam. These Taiwan is really the only place animal. Is it felt that the power and being pulled by a string. Which of observations do not, of course, where it is still possible to experi­progress of this country and this these events best represent the make such practices less absurd or ence the rich flavor of traditional university have so justified past class found at Notre Dame? I only objectionable but it is certainly the Chinese culture and religion with sins. and shielded us from the know that I'd prefer to chase a live case that Taiwan has no monopoly some degree of authenticity. This reality of present sins. that a pig more than a dead one. on political fatuity. is not the case in the Disneyland-mockery dare be made of a practice Whether a bedtime story should 
which is still a painful physical be told or a greased pig should be reality to some and a painful chased seem to be trivial matters, mental reality to others? but I think that the problem goes It is occasions like this one that deeper than this. Sure. if the force me to carefully consider the Humane Society condemned our worth and seriousness of this little contest in the papers, a few university's claim of "respect for people, including some of the human rights." alumni, might get upset. But at the To round off this An Tostat same time, all the students who 
Maybe it is time to look into our While the women began with only celebration, why don't we add fun work, participate, and watch the own backyard and realize that here 30 teams, and we did not see even a events that would allow us to laugh event will benefit in some way. on our campus racism and hatred single score listed. at and mock the torturing of What the Administration seems to 
s towards others is prevalent and Women participating in book­political prisoners. the soldiers be forgetting is that the students ' blatant. What happened to the store-basketball approach their killed in the Vietnam war, or who are here now should come Christian spirit that Notre Dame so games with a comparative amount starvation in the third world? Or first. not their concern about bad strongly professes? We must of intensity, enthusiasm and ability better yet. how about "Send your publicity resulting from a pig. An 
P.O. BOX Q: Bookstore 
Racism 

redirect our cause and scope of as the men. A high quality of enemy to the gas oven"? Tostal is an event for the students social justice to more fully incorpor­performance is guaranteed by the Pamela Parson by the students. I'd like to keep it ate those who in the years to come presence of Varsity players on a that way. 
and the 
Editors Note: The slave auction Is 

will be the result and example of a team. You have recognized the Tom Haller 
Notre Dame education. men. Varsity players on the book­not actually a slave auction. First of all, the "slaves" volunteer to be
Steven G. Thomas store teams, but have failed to
N.D. spirit 

acknowledge the Varsity players sold. Secondly, the money ts 
donated to charity. Lastly, in therepresentingSMcand ND women's 

teams. fun-loving spirit of An Tostal, no NO "slave" Is treated In the
A prime example of your lack of
Equal

Dear Editor, reporting as "accurately and objec­unChristian and inhumane manner I am writing in reaction to what I tively as possible" came to our in which the slaves of the past were.
witnessed during Tuesday eve­attention when we read the results
coverage for
nings bookstore game between of the men's games played on the 
T.B. Express and Easy Living Lyons courts at 4:45 on April 24. '' Paint. A certain number of the fans Would it have been so difficult to .' watching the game turned it into a women have reported the women's game Greased 
contest of black vs. white. What I taking place at the same time on saw was sick, and those that found Dear Editor, the adjacent court? pleasure in their bigotry ought to We are writing in regard to your We are asking for equal repre­
porkchops

be ashamed of themselves. Never coverage of the present women's sentation. It would be dishearten­in my four years at notre Dame bookstore-basketball tournament. ing to find only the fmal results of have I felt and heard such hatred. Or should we say, your lack of the women's tournament covered As an institution, this University coverage. The women's tourn­in the Observer. We are asking 
Dear Editor; 

likes to preach the cause for human ament began on Sunday April 23, that you include us in the excite­An Tostal has become, without a rights and social justice. Perhaps with approximately 30 teams rep­ment of being recognized during 
doubt, the premiere social event on our vision has been over-extended resenting the SMC and ND com­our devoted participation in this An campus. Hundreds of peoplefor too long. A Christian spirit of munities. As of Tuesday, April 26, Tostal event. 
spend hours preparing events for 

justice for all can only begin in each there has not been one printed Terri Cafaro the week. hoping to put the 
and everyone of our he~rts. Only ,...·ord in regard to the outcome of Mary Ellen Hill finishing touches on successful
a 

1hen can we begin to preach about these games. 
Mary Pat Bringardener year, and providing one last fling
this justice and dPtnand that others It is amazing to us to see how you Geri Bresnahan before the finals grind. 
The _sreat

follow our wav. Obviouslv, what I were not only able to report the Michele Strohman thing about this event is that ii is saw Tuesday ·evening at bookstore outcome of over 100 men's games. 
Maureen O'Brian the prime example uf student 
basketball showed Notre Dame and but you were also able to report Joan McCarthy organization and planning, much it~ mission has failed to impress whu scored and how many points Kathy Sweeney needed entertainment for fellow 
some of its members. and rebounds they captured. Cindy Jones students. 



----~~ -----·~-~----­
., 
P.0. BOX Q: UMOC 
,_......,,,•..,....,.•...,...•.•v.v.v.-.·~·,.·.,,:t.·.:v.-.·.·,NJ'A·.-.....·.-....,~.,.,..._........,,...,,~_._...,_.A._.~-,,•._.,...-.-.-,.,_...,.._.,Ml'J'A••v.·rnn~-·a•.,. 
. 
Why not UWOC? 
Dear Editor: I'm a little confused. Maybe it's because I'm only a freshman but I just don't understand. 
The biggest complaint I hear from Notre Dame women is that they are not treated in the same way as their male counterparts. They feel discriminated against by some and unduly favored by others. They feel that more money should be spent on women's ath­letics and that their sports should receive better coverage in The Observer. All the female students of Notre Dame want is equal stat,,:. with male students. 

Now, along with the other activi­ties of An Tostal, I understand that for a penny a vote, you can cast multiple votes for candidates for UMOC--you can vote to name "Ugly Man On Campus." Here's where I'm baffled. While ND women are calling for the equality that they deserve in other areas, I hear no mention of a UWOC election. C'mon girls! In the name of charity, wouldn't you want to be named "Ugly WOMAN On Cam­pus?" You're not going to let the men have all the fun, are you? 
Mad Josefs 

7HAN!G, BABE. HI, 7H&RE, PUT HIM ON •• WI<&! YOU HWiJ, HOOK? GtTMYWI­
IT'S OUKE! JRACTPRO­
I 
RJSAt..'$!? 
,.~'"''·:·"'-" / 
'lEAH, I /1.¥15 Jf/5T60­!N6 OYER n; ND trS MJ CIIJI/III1EI,V ourCF tlftf! CHJIC£ MIAT$ 7HIS AaJIJT7HE af /(/{) NEH1IN6 filS 0/JIN WKf. ()N/VCRSAL 6>1W "! JlJ5T 700 
" 816F<RH 5TAJOtRO 
nx:;as. 
(1(, lEAH? /AEU,}()M) AIO/TH/5 OliN MEAT I.OCI<ER? 

And 
he began 
as a wart 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to thank the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for their continuing support of our candidate, Orest, over the last four years. We feel that it is important to thank you all formally because any success that Orest has achieved in his quest for the title of 
U.M.O.C. can be attributed direct­ly to the students, not to mention the fact that Orest IS incredibly ugly. Virtually all of the money collected for Orest has come in small amounts from undergraduate students. This sum reflects the hard work of our many volunteers. 
seriously, folk 
There is nothing wrong with going off-campus to raise money but there is something right with involving as many students as possible. That is what Notre Dame's Ugly Man is all about. We're sure Orest would not have his campaign any other way, even if it means losing, because Orest does not fear losing. In fact, the only thing Orest fears is a tall bottle of Compound W -because Orest was not born; he was cloned from a wart. 
Matt McGrath 
An 

endorsement 
Dear Editor, 

As the reigning "Ugly Man," it has come to my attention the the illustrious seven year Notre Dame career of Drew "Mr. Dirt" Danik is coming to an end. The most fitting send-off that the Notre Dame community can give this ''profess­ional student" is to honor him with the one award he has deserved for the seven years that he has been at Notre Dame. That, of course,· is to elect Drew "Ugliest Man on Camp­us." 
If there ever is an authority on ugliness, I would have to say I am one, having had to look at myself in the mirror for 23 years. However, I could never have achieved the success that I did, All Time Ugly Man, if it wasn't for the fact that we used to hide Drew in a closet until the contest was over! If anyone would have gotten a look at Drew they never would have cast a penny on me! 
Since I can't be there to defend my crown, I hereby endorse Drew ''Mr. Dirt" Danik as the most worthy successor to my title of UMOC. So let's everybody get out and finally, after seven years, send Drew home a winner!(?) Elect Drew "Mr. Dirt" Danik -"Ugliest Man on Campus.'' 
John "Beppo" GuJdo 

-~-----··-····················----------·-~
S • • ¥• • ~_,. • .v• • r• r• rrr• • • • • a • • • •~ r~~r•«ff .r.rM'6«a«tr• • • 
The 

Diary of AI Frank 
a~a~aa.r.r• •.r.r.r•.r.r• •.r•••-.r•liF.r.rer.r••• .r.r••••••ar••• ••~*••
--···-···············---·-·-···················art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--"The Diary of AI Frank" was found underneath the skating pond at the RCA Building. It is purportedly the record of an NBC executive who had something to do with the presentation of ··Holocaust.'' which was recently shown on television over a period of four nights. 
"June 3, 1977: Holy smoke, I can't believe it. They called me this morning and told me they were making a mini-series on the Holo­caust, which would be the defini­tive story of how the Nazis elimin­ated 6 million Jews. I said they were out of their minds. Where did they think they would get sponsors to advertise on a show like this? "Thev said. 'When the advert­
isers s"ee  the numbers.  they'll be  
standing  in  line  to  buy  time.  
Everyone  said  "Roots"  would  

bomb out. but when the ratings came in, ABC was kicking itself for what it charged for a minute.' 
·'They told me to tell the agencies that with the hype they were going to give the show. plus the interest in the subject matter. 'Holocaust' would be the biggest cost-per­thousand-buy in television. 
"Sept. 2, 1977: Have been up and down Madison Avenue for almost two months. At first I was met with disbelief that we were going to put this show on the air. I told them we were going to back it with the biggest promotion in television history. We were putting out the paperback at the same time. It would be done in the best of taste and we were going to make the American people feel guilty if they didn't watch it. 'Holocaust' could be bigger than the World Series and the Academy Awards show combined. It would be the first time Hitler's 'Final Solution' would be shown commercially 011 network prime time. • 
"Well, much to my surprise, the orders are starting to come in. I got a dog-food sponsor, the ring­around-the-collar detergent com­pany, several painkiller drug makers and, believe it or not, Lowenbrau, the German beer com­pany. We're quoting $150,000 a minute, but I told them if they came in early we'd give them a discount. I assured them the commercials would be spotted during each night's program, five or six at a time, and would be a welcome relief from all the depres­sing scenes in the show itself. I'm starting to have a good feeling about 'Holocaust,' and so are the people upstairs. 
"Jan. 14, 1978: Just signed up Gilh·ae, Martini & Rossi Vermouth 
Asr·en automobiles and Nabisco. The word of mouth is we've got something none of the other net­works thought of, and nobody wants to be left out. A time buyer from a cereal company called this morning and said they would like to get in on the 'concentration camp hour,' which broke me up. Now the denture products' companies are banging down the door. Two of the four nights are sold out. I wish I had a piece of the action. 
"April 14, 1978: Would you believe both Gleem toothpaste and Stir Crazy popcorn are now in the lineup, not to mention Polaroid and "I've seen the entire series, 
extra-strength  Excedrin?  Timex  
and Mellow Roast coffee are  also  
signed up.  

without the commercials, of course, 
and it's going to break everybody's 
heart. They're going to ask, 'How 
could anyone be so callous to let aJJ 
those people die?' and 'What kind 
of people are we to have allowed 
such obscene things to take place 
without raising our voices?' 
"We're getting fantastic news­paper coverage and all the critics, except The New York Times, have called it the most important prog­ramming ever to be put out on the air. We even got the cover of TV Guide. Several of the advertisers have already called in thanking me for putting them on to such a good thing, and this is before they've even seen the ratings. 
"If we get the share of the audience I expect, they're going to all be screaming for a sequel. 
·'Our problem is, what do we do for an encore?" 


Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 4655& 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encoura~i!ed. 
ED1TORIAL BOARD 
Tonv Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb langhenry Executive Editor Ro.semary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cory Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
~._._._..~_.._.F.ri·dl·y·,·A·~-i.l.28_,_1.97_8._._.__...~~ 
---------~ -~---­
Ugly and the Beasts 
'. 
Ugly Can Be Beautiful 
marybeth dougherty 
Could your roommate sour milk at fifty paces? Is that boy in your gym class really the missing link that evolutionists are searching for? Don't keep this knowledge to yourself! Support them in the Ugliest Man on Campus contest, and they too can enjoy the not >riety of belonging to the elite 
U.M.O.C. roll. 
The Notre Dame chapter Of the Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity, sponsors the Ugly Man contest. However. it is held during An Tostal week, and has become a highlight of the wacky spring
·­
festival. The campaign tensio,n mounts as the week progresses, climaxing when the Ugliest Man is announced at the Irish Wake Saturday night. 
The money raised by Notre Dame's 

U.M.O.C. goes to charity. The first year it benefitted Muscular Dystrophy and Logan Center. Since 1975, Sr. Marita's Primary Day School has received the earnings. Members of the Alpha Phi club devote constcterame time and energy to insure a successful drive for Sr. Marita's. Mark Hutton, current chairman of the ingenious fundraiser, hopes the contest continues its profitable tradition. · 
The first year, 1974, Keenan's Mike Sazdanoff won the title announced at the irish Wake. Sazdanoff nofSd that his Harris, J .J. DeCoursey, and Mike Sazdanoff, who might've been getting handsomer as he got older. The combined Ugly Man efforts earned the Primary Day School $1500 that year. 
The fourth campaign in 1977 brought 
U.M.O.C. to new heights. The competition was intense between the acknowledged Ugliest Man on Campus, Beppo Guido, and Cavanaugh Hall's answer to Ukrainian sausage, Orest Deychakiwsky. Imaginative ideas were unrestrained as both candidates went after the elusive pennies of victory. Beppo posed in a cage in front of the South Dining Hall, and this degrading display of ugliness earned him the attention of two South Bend television stations. In a dedicated fit of lunacy, Orest offered to shave his head in return for donations. His campaign managers pounced on such a potentially ugly idea, and forced their candidate to fulfill his promise. Cavanaugh residents paid a dollar each to watch the ugly duckling shed his down. It must be confessed that Orest quickly became attached to his hat, which 'barely' covered the true state of his scalp. 
Though Beppo is naturally homely, ·he had to work at it to be actually ugly. He grew a beard, let his hair run wild, and generally appeared as if he'd just lost a fight with a Waring blender. Orest 
...................................................................................... 
Bob Seger's 

Last time I saw Bob Seger was here at the ACC and he was playing the opening act for Kiss, those rejects from a ]apanese horror movie. Seeger played a short but intense set, well received though most of the crowd was around thirteen years old and waiting for the smoke bombs, sirens and flashing lights to go off. I thought Seeger blew Kiss away but then the crowd would probably have booetl the Stones off stage if they had been tol I that they were last minute replacements ·for those cos­tumed clowns. 
Wednesday night was different, though. In fact, it was little short of amazing. People from South Bend had come out in force to hear a quality act, and were actually enthusiastic. They even cheered the warm up band, The Sweet, a less than mediocre heavy metal Uriah Heep clone, bringing them back for an encore. This crowd was up, Jack! I mean the whole atmosphere was charged with electricty, with an air of joyous anticipation; when Seeger finally hit the stage about 9:05 Eastern Standard Time, the collective roar that arose from over 8,000 throats sounded something like a subway train going through a wind tunnel or the Ramones on a good night. 
Seger didn't disappoint. He took off on the energy and excitement generated by the adoring throng and gave it back decibel for decibel. When he finally left the stage he was so exhausted he had tobe carried off. 
Relying most on material from Night Moves and Live Bullet, Seger played for little over an hour, but he was brought back for two encores. The crowd would have stayed for twenty but Seger, ever the smart showman, .•new that the energy, drive and enthusiasm projected would only dissipate in the course of a longer set, so he kept the set brief. I mean, after hearin12 "Ni12ht 
,_ 
victory proved that the Notre Dame student" knew authentic ugly when he or she saw it. "! tbink it was an honor and a privilege, and if anyone deserved it, it was me," he said. 
The second U.M.O.C. battle in 1975 was indicative of contests to come, as the top three camdidates struggled to capture the title. Beppo Guido had an early lead, as the voting boxes were moved from the dining halls to the Irish Wake at Stepan Center. Supporters of Diggy Dziemianowicz pulled their man ahead with one hundred thirty dollars worth of votes. Dramatically, Beppo regained the number one spot with ninety dollars support. He was soon eclipsed by the sensational entrance of the reigning Ugly. As described by Harry Bainbridge, the 1975 APO president, "Mike Sazdanoff came in with a garbage can full of pennies an hour before the deadline. Do you know what that's like to count?" Apparently it's exactly like counting $148.55 in change, and that amount clinched the second consecutive title for Sazdanoff. In total, $1200 was raised for Sr. Marita's, the APO charity. 
The 1976 Ugly Man contest confirmed the homely image introduced the year before, as Beppo Guido secured his first 
U.M.O.C. crown. His chief competitors, almost too ugly to mention, were 'Ace' 
Blue Collar Rock and Roll 
Moves" who wants to hear anything else. 
The funny thing about Seger is that he doesn't look or act like an ordinary rock star. He wears his hair long, has a full beard, dresses in jeans, and can't dance. Yet he pulls off the act by virtue of his incredible voice and his macho stance which simply dares you not to take him seriously. Seger plants himself in the middle of the stage, legs apart and hair flying everywhere, and proceeds to celeb­rate the redemptive powers of rock and roll. His artistry rests on the fact that he can take musical and thematic cliches and fashion moving songs from them. ''Trav­lin' Man" on paper looks like one of the most stupid things ever written but Seger performs it with such conviction that and such passion that it becomes a revelation rather than an embarrassment. "Life is short,'' we come to understand in the course of the song, and so we are all just "travelin' men, Iovin' and livin' wherever we can." Seger then could be viewed as a blue collar rock and roller, a performer who share the common man's sensibility in a fresh and invigorating manner. 
Seger can't do it alone, however, and so none of this would really have mattered if his band hadn't been so tight. If you don't believe the back-up band is really that important then maybe you should have checked out the Rod Stewart concert at the ACC a few semesters back. Rod was great, but he was backed up by the laconic Faces and so was reduced to yelling at the audience to ''get up off their asses'' (yeah, I know the ACC isn't the most receptive place in the world but this was ROD STEWART, a big, big star). Seger never had to ask the crowd to get up because they were always standing, thanks to the inspired musicianship of sayman Alto Reed (how's that for a horn players name) and guitarist Drew Abbott. 
depends upon the ugly images h_is name conjures: DEYCHAKIWSKY. Additional­ly, he has the ability to look as if he had ' slept in his clothing. This is often the case. 
Ugly Man campaigning intensified as An Tostal '77 drew to a close. The opposing candidates worked furiously to gather pennies, nickels, dimes, or money orders. Loyal supporters ~ the two top homelies scoured the halls in the effort to uncover the last change available. Bolstered by a last minute contribution from • Ace' Harris, Beppo secured his second U.M.O.C. victory. The Holy Cross Hall victor earned 
$1420.21, followed by Orest with $1099.22. m total, U.M.O.C. raised over $2900 for Sr. Marita's. 
The Ugliest Man on Campus contest gives Notre Dame students the opportunity to humiliate friends and enemies alike by making sure their names appear on the widely-read voting roll at the end of the campaign. It generates an excitement that peaks at the Irish Wake when the winner is announced. The election is a. friendly competition that is full fo the maneuvers and intrigue of a political campaign--but there are no losers. Rather, every person involved is left with the satisfying feeling that his efforts have helped a group of people who greatly appreciate the generosity . 
dom salemi 


smging, concise licks were ~~ t~~-heart of 
every song. He got off a fine Chuck Berry-like solo in a new Seger composition "Old Time Rock and Roll," and some searing lines in "Ramblin' Man." Drew saved some of his best moments for his battle with Alto in "Katmandu" and Rock and Roll Never Forgets." Watching them knock each other down with fierce, driving leads while the rest of the band played like mad behind them was viewing rock and roll played with enthusiasm and abandon as it is supposed to. 
"Night Moves" was the highlight of the concert. Coming on the heels of the fast paced "Ramblin', Gamblin' Man," and "Katmandu," it showed how Seger had be come the spokesman for the passions and sensibilities of the average concertgoer. "The Apotheosis of the Midwest," my friend remarked to me, and watching a crowd that had moments before been jumping up down sitting quietly in rapt attention, I began to think he was right. Seger may not be very sophisticated, but he's honest, and the things he sings about are things people have experienced, felt in their life at one time or another. There are no fantasy trips one goes through listening to him. He is not larger than life, like Mick Jagger or David Bowie; he is life. It could just as easily be you or me up there singing instead of him, but it is not you, so you listen when he sings: 
Workin' on mysteries without any clues Workin' on our night moves Trying to make some front page drive-in news 
and then steps back and exclaims in something between joy and bewilderment: And oh the thunder Felt the lightning And we waited on the thunder 
• 

Waited on the thunder 
Then comes that glorious chorus and Seger is alone at stge front singing with his eyes squeezed shut and no one is even moving because they are all remembering. Remembering, and then.......then seeing that girl again in the back seat, and tasting that wet kiss, and having that thrill mix with that sick feeling of anticipation when.....and now you are staring, staring because she is more beautiful than any girl in the world you're sure, and you know, you know that this is going to be it, and that whatever happens nothing is ever going to be the same and you are a little bit frightened by that but she is looking at you with those big dark eyes and those yearning , moist lips and you just have to no matter what......... 
No one was saying anything. They were just listening and when Seger left, every­one wanted to shake his hand. Not because he was a star, which he is, but because he had said things tonight which they had felt but could never talk about somehow, and because he had said them he had made their experience, hell, their life, that much more meaningful. So Seger shook hands and then left and even though he played a short set no one was complaining. Well, how could they? They knew, and he knew, their whole life was still to be written. 
..................... 
observer features 

Letters to a Lonely God 
Once There was an April 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
When April hangs its fringes on the trees. was all the love in her lifetime ever offe~ed 
Years later, under the auspices of both a man much older whom she didn't love, and you're fifty years old and feeling her in a romantic way. our sets of parents, I met the girl again. who dido't love her. Part of her alwaysrestless, you know that frisbees are not the The poems I sent her may have made her This time, I could count the ways I loved remained a young girl of twelve, as though answer. You're in a mood to laugh, then parents nervous, though they must have her on a mitten. No longer the enchanting she didn't want to grow up. Maybe that 
suddenly you need to cry. You wait for known I was a little young myself to be 
child turning into woman, her arms had was what made the rest of life so hard for tears that instantly seem dumb, because making eternal commitments. A thirteen turned meaty, and I considered that her her. It was not I--by poetry and life is too serious to cry over. You hear a year-old suitor should not be taken at his bosom seemed larger--quite a lot larger-­promises--who kept her a child, though she robin, and think of Ahab, who felt never-dying word when he asks an than was necessary. I would have loved was grateful, as I was grateful, for the 
inamorata, junior to himself, how does he
devoured, Prometheus-like, by vultures. her if I could, especially since I knew she April love we shared. She just never 
love her? let him count the ways. If the •
" Damned in the midst of Paradise," Ahab wamed me to, but eternal commitments-­needed to outgrow the springtime, because complained, and you agree; paradise English poets could write it, I could copy it as between a male and a female--cannot be the summer could never be as lovely. This 
and offer it as a lyric tribute to the arms
meaning April, and damnation being made between a boy and a Hilton hotel. was the decision, her mother told me, that 
and bosom of a moppet I adored. I
moods when the soul feels pecked to death The girl's name was Margie, and you may her head told her heart, or so it seemed to 
by thrushes. ''Damned in the midst of meant--innocently and chastely--all the have read about her before. her family. Paradise," you sigh. Springtime works passion I could profess, and I was as 
April cannot come without a remem­
you over, like a goosegirl turned pick­intense as any teen-ager who has discover­April is the year's being born without
brance of our first true love, and Margie, at
pocket, robbing you blind, confusing you ed first love. Her parents didn't like it, and original sin. It is Eden in the meadow and
twelve, was mine. I've always been glad I
like muggers met in the subway. Frisbees they told my parents that I should quit. Paradise regained. I would love to feel at
told Margie, as she was at twelve, that
don't help; you can't lean on frisbees to . I~ grieved me to give her up, but when a home in Paradise.'lut springtime works you 
when her hair had turned to silver, I would 
give yourself support. g!rl s father does everything but send the over when you're fifty, and you feel it as
love her just the same./lwould always call 
g1~l to a convent, you stop making a guilt. Springtime embarrasses you, as
Once there was an April when I fell in her sweetheart; that would always be her 
nu~sance of yourself on the ground that though you'd been caught with a frisbee in
love. The earth was younger then, and the name./ She has told me she has never 
nmsances lack class, and classless kids your hand. if you could have kept the
girl was so young as to be merely a child_ forgotten those promises to cherish her for 
sometimes end up talking to the police whole gift perfect, never losing innocence, 
Her father said she was too young to date her lifetime. I forgot them years ago,
sergeant . My own father contributed the yours or another's, you could feel a kinship
boys, but he couldn't prohibit worship. except in springtime, when April reminds
police. sergeant. to t~e scenario, possibly with the robins. As it is, the flight of the
Looking back, l believe I was the only boy me how I've been a perjurer.
because he bPheved 1t was a crime for a thrushes makes you cry. You wish youwho ever told her that he loved her. I man to make a fool of himself over any Margie died when she was a very young were thirteen again so that you could bebelieve that the love I offered her that Aoril woman except his mother. woman, attempting-to carry the child of righteous enough to inherit the earth. 
Introducing... 
Tucked away between the darkened, nob-webbed walls of the Pangford Pavillion where no normal crawly things have stepped since the creation of this entity back in 1955 when the Pangford brothers tooted their last whistle, stand some of the most incredible creatures that ever were. Their lowly existance has never been witnessed by mere giants, for they keep their mustachioed lips and two inch bodies deftly out of sight. Their legs are short and flexible, and their tails are long and thin ·:u1d curved up behind their rounded heads. 
Arnazings don't walk on all fours like most of the other animals in the Pavillion, since it was evolutionarily proper for them to walk on their hind legs in order to allow their front legs to change into arms. Their arms would later learn to play a variety of instruments and perform an indescribable pattern of multivariate tasks which include holding lead-filled branches, scribbling drawings of giants on rolled pulp, punch­ing rectangular buttons on small illuminat­ed boxes and fiddling with small spherical pieces placed upon a board with points and moved only on impulses relayed from the Amazing tail. But one has to understand the true preference of Amazing acquired through different settings and time zones during their development. 
~. ·~·.·;;~!.. I c. \' 
\\ --i 
\lc_~ 
II •\ ~;.·.
l ·.' \ ,. l ;
L-::... ~.· 

Amazings were not always two inches tall. 
During prehistoric times, when they ruled the lush, tropical paradise of the A.L. Foglands, they grew up to heights of 40 stories and could easily nibble the sulphur­impregnated particles that whirled into their sniffling noses. Many years later, after reading Chuck Darvon's version of Unnatural Pr<'"ilection, Amazings realized it would be more advantageous for their survival to shrink in size from 40 stories to two inches. After much heated political debate and theoretical framing, the Amaz­ing Council decided the issue should be enacted, and fhe very next aar. 1\.maitngs could no longer leap volcanoes in a single bound or hush bothersome rodents with a single pinky. 



It was abou~ this ti.me that Amazings bec~me acquamted w1th the equally tiny Nibelungens, a young upstart band of wandering musicians who played in all the und~rground algol pubs. Notes, notation, and mstruments previously unknown to the Amazing Gang were soon mastered with the help of the Nibels and in no time at all became the means to monetary ends as attractive cave contracts were thrown before their squinting eyes. Amazings 
learned to shun such fantastic suaveness though, .and decided to keep their head~ ~ut of s1ght for an indefinite amount of ttme; to "lay low" ::s the giants always say. And for the longest time, they did. Maybe 100-150 years, though no one really 
knows for sure. 


Until about 30 amazing years ago, Amazings were constantly hanging out in their own little niches in the bellies of the sewers near the giants' cities playing their favorite instrument, the Gibby L4-CN, and sipping on algols while watching their eyes turn green (they never turn red). Then one day, an Amazing rebel came running down to the murky, inhabited depths screaming at the top of his lungs, "I say him, I saw him, I saw him! Giants were calling him back for more ... and he carne. And he was aaaaaaarnazing! Jiles, Jiles, Jiles they screamed! Jiles Davis, the giants called him, and SCHOOSH could he blow that horn. It's like I've never heard before. So cool and so different from all the other musicians we've been hearing in these 
Amazing, Isn't it? 


parts. It might bring us out of this sewer we've been living in and out into the walls of the buildings upstairs to capture in our ears the sounds that might change the tune ot everyone·s song. Sure, the Nibelungens are gone, but with all the knowledge we've absorbed through reading, writing and jamming, we've been ablt to keep up with what's happeneing in mt.sic and it seems as though Jiles just might change the course of a few treble clefs... this jazz, man, it has to be heard to be believed. I don't know how to describe its difference, but you'll have to experience that for yourself!!!" 
..... 


The rebel's name who had ventured on his own against his father's will to witness the new jazz phenom was OHNLEY, and before he had grown to his middle-age height of one inch and three quarters, he 
became known throughout the. Amazing community as "The Jazz Knower." It was through his predicting influence that the Amazing Gang migrated from their sewer homes to the inner nob-webbed walls of the buildings that rose above the ground in the light of the sun. It was 

through OHNLEY' S eyes, and later through his wife KWITE's, ~. that the Amazings looked for~utaanct: when eval­uating what types of music they should listen to; the kind of music that would combine the greatest amount of cerebral tingling and innovativeness. So, through­out their newly directed lives, Arnazings, the million or so that survived the Phewer Plague, traveled great distances to witness and critique the various groups that performed in the stadiums and nightclubs. With the money acquired from these writings, the Arnazings purchased their first communal stereo system, ~hich inclu­ded Klicksure speakers, a Common-Pardon 
g. luke cosmas 
receiver, and a Mumal turntable. The features editors of the various papers and the promotional comqanies of the music­
ians that the Arnazings reviewed always sent them copies of the latest albums. The Amazings could play them on their newest conglomeration of electronic devices anci sit around to discuss the musical repur­cussions of the album after the diamond lifted off the plastic. This type of;:ollective interaction brought much tredibility to their stories and reviews, which were read throughout the worlds of the giants and the Amazings. 

And so it was...the history and develop­ment of the greatest music critics in the cosmos. The cosmos of giants and Arnazings living happily and collectively in the rooms and walls of most buildings ir· ' the urban and rural areas. At the top of the Amazing society, OHNLEY and KWITE ruled with expediency and 1grace, directing and conducting the Great Council debates concerning such artists as: Michael Franks, Auracle, George Benson (past and present), Joe Pass, Chick Corea, Stanley Turrentine, Chick Mangione, The Crusad­
ers, Frank Zappa, AI Stewart, Bruce "no legal hassles" Springsteen, Jeff Beck, AI DiMeola, Allan Kane, Ziles Koresneski, and many more. 

On this very page, OHNLEY and KWITE, perhaps with a few other drastic Amazing interludes, will present their opinions as wrought from the Amazing community. And these gripes, rags, riches and jazz­pufter insights will be brought to you fans out in academia throughout the remaining weeks of this semester and all of next year, too. With these bits of discernable historia behind us, the show wiJI begin. 

• 
·~ I 
' : 

Friday, April 28, 1978 
12 the observer 

~---~--------------------------------------------------..------~----------~ 
Attendant accused of sexually attacking patient 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) · A male alleged assualts to get back at him tendent Bernard Wagner. attendants on duty in the ward. son were suspended. But he patient with the IQ of a 9-year-old for enforcing hospital rules. Both men were suspended indef­Hospital records showed the two denied that he fabricated the story testified here yesterday that he was He and the patient never got initely following a state police men were alone in the ward as of the assaults to get even with the sexually assualted as many as 70 along, he said, because "I never investigation and a Henry County average or four nights per month in attendants. times by two night shift attendants gave in to him.'' grand jury indicted them for abuse 1976, when the alleged assaults Fiscel said he was fired from his at the New Castle State Hospital. "He's belligerent and he's threa­and maltreatment of patients. were reported. second job as an attendant at the 
The patient's testimony came tening in order to get his own The charges were dropped when Describing the alleged ~ssaults by Henry County Hospital after the during a St:> te Employees Appeals way," said Fiscel, who now lives the local prosecutor said he could Fiscel, the patient said, "I don't alleged incidents were reported Commissio11 hearing to determine with his grandmother in Logan-find no credible evidence against know the exact many times, but it's and that he has been unable to find whether one of the attendants, sport. . the men, Wagner said. However, been more than enough.'' work since then. Thomas R. Fiscel, should be rein­He said he and the patient argued he said the state police report The patient conceded that he The commission is expected to stated in his job at the state mental several times, mostly over the showed Fiscel ''was a frequent "may have" warned other hospital decide the case within a month. If hospital. patient's demands for coffee and participant" in the alleged as­employees that he would have Fiscel is denied reinstatement, he 
"I hate to talk about it. It's very cigarettes, unauthouized use of the saults. them fired after Fiscel and Robert-may ask a court to hear the case. 
filthy," the 27 year old, mentally hospital telephone and several Robertson regularly assaulted him retarded patient said as he descri­religious pictures and statues the at the end of the work week, the bed the alleged assualts. He said patient wanted to display in the patient testified. Fiscel also eng­the male attendants "would just ward. aged him in sexual activity, the come right into my bed. I bet it's Fiscel and Franklin Robertson, 29, patient said, "But not as often as occurred over SO times -maybe were temporarily suspended from Frank would -maybe just off and 70," their jobs at the hospital two years on." 
·'They wanted to be a friend to ago after a female attendant said The patient said the assaultsbegan vou, •• he continued. "When they she saw Robertson engaging in in 1973 and usually took place ~ere doing it to you, they would homosexual activity with the pat­about 1:30 am on the nights when say. 'I love you, I love you.''' ient, according to hospital superin-Fiscel and Robertson were the only 
The assualts would last 45-60 minutes, he said, and afterwards the attendants "would always take 

Terrorists shoot Fiat exec,
us to the attendants' room where they worked and give us a c~p of coffee and a smoke." 

keep silent on Moro's fate 
Other patients also were assualt­ed, he said, and although no TURIN, Italy [SP) ·Two men and -has been used for years in threats were involved, the attend­a blonde woman waiting in ambush sectarian fighting in Northern Ire­ants would admonish the patients shot a Fiat . executive in the legs land. not to report the incidents. yesterday in the second terrorist Palmieri was the eleventh official 
Another patient, whose mental strike in two days attributed to the of the Fiat car company. Italy's age is that of a six-year-old, had Red Brigades, but the gang kept largest private employer, to be been scheduled to testify against silent on the fate of kidnapped wounded in a terrorist attack in Fiscel. But he was ruled mentally former Premier Aldo Moro. three years. Fiat denounced the incompetant to testify after a The hit team sprayed pistol fire at latest incident as "a clear attempt daylong hearing Wednesday. Sergio Palmieri, 39 -year-old to aggravate tensions." 
Fiscel, a 37-year-old former nurs­father of two children, shattering In Rome, police searched auto­ing student at Ball State Univers­bones in both his legs as he walked mobiles near Moro's home in the ity denied making "Sexual advances to a bus stop shortly after 8 a.m. Monte Mario section after an to the patients in his ward. And "They've ruined me for the rest of anonymous caller told a newspaper five female attendants and Fiscel's my life," Palmieri, in charge of that his body was stuffed in the hospital supervisor testified that union relations at a Mirafiori trunk of a car parked 500 yards they didn't believe the charges assembly plant, told reporters from from his apartment house. But against their former co-worker. his hospital bed. police found nothing. 
Taking the stand in his own Shooting people in the legs may Police have chased down many defense, Fiscel told the commission cause permanent crippling. The false leads since Moro was kid­that the patient lied about the technique-called "Knee-capping" napped March 16. 
• 

f 
i-­

We could add an entire catalog of diseases too, and the very real danger of living in a country where you are less than welcome by the people in power. 
A Third World Country. Every one is a land of constant hardship. And every one the source of countless rewards for Maryknoll Missioners. 
What greater reward could there be than to share the love of Christ with the distressed and oppressed, to help them help themselves, temporally and spirit­ually. Here, you can help nourish the starving, shelter the homeless, restore the dignity of man to these, your neighbors. You share their cultures and traditions, grow as they grow. You give meaning to their lives, and they to yours. 
-· ·. ;" 

To be a Maryknoll Missioner is an adventure of the spirit. 
· • It is a privilege. ' 

~; ·.• '.:-· · It is, literarty, the opportunity of a lifetime. Se_nd us the coupon or call toll free 
. . .. ;,j (fOO) 431·2008. 

·. •. ~""\~~-_:.·-.i_\" \ ,.----.....------:---..---~----------., 
'~\~·,gr::-;;: ..~-· · 1 ~noll Missioners . ND2f 
· ·· · I peepte who give theh· lives for people 1 J DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS 1 
1 M8ryknoll MilliOMn • 1118lyknoU, N.Y. 10545 I 
I 
Dear Father: 

I 
Please send me information.about becoming a Maryknoll1 Priest Brothef S1ster I 
I Name -·-. ___ . ··---~--.. --~-_ --· I I Address -~ . . _ ~-_ I I City Stale ~-----~· Zip Code I I Age----~~ Phone _ Class ____-~ I I College Year of Graduation . _ I 
L--------------------J 
General Griffin Bell undermined prosecute him beacause he was an the Justin· Department'-. inve'iti­FBI agent." Horn said of Bell. gation of the FBI and blocked '"He said it would be a disgrace to possible indictments against eight the FBI." middle-level FBI officials. the man The statements by Gardner and who headed the probe said ycster­Horn, and by two other task force dav. members who resigned last year 
William L. Gardner told a Senate after a dispute with Bell, prompted apprnpriations subcommittee that Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-CT. to Bell effectively halted the probe by question Bell's fitness for office. refusing to let prosecutors seek ·'It seems clear that the attorney perjury indictments against an general, despite the advice of top unspecified number of FBI officials Justice Department prosecutors, whom the task force believed were willfully selected not to pursue a lying. complete investigation," Weicker 
Without the threat of perjury said. "What has transpired here charges. Gardner said, his task this morning rightfully calls into force had no leverage with which to question the suitability of Griffin force agents to tell the truth about Bell to continue as attorney general allegedly illegal FBI activities. of the United States." 
Gardner said Bell also refused to However, Sen. Ernest Hollings, let prosecutors seek indictments .->f D-SC, said such talk was "sancti­eight mid-level officials on charges monious" and said what really was of wiretapping, mail theft, break­at issue was that Bell and his ins or black bag jobs, perjury and subordinates disagreed on how to false statements to a government proceed with a difficult investiga­agency. tion. 
He said the officials. some of whom still work for the FBI, included three squad leaders, four SG offices closed special agents in chaTge of divi­sions and one assistant director. for An Tostal 
Gardner, who resigned as head of Student Governmeftt offices wiDthe investigation task force last be closed to4ay hecause of AnDecember, did not name any of the Tostal. In the spirit af "Fri~sofficials. 
Friday," April 28, 1918 has ~teenBell had no il'llmcdiate comment. 
dedared an officiaf Student Gov­
Gardner, who is stilt with tile erJMilent holiday. Andy McKenna, Justice ~rl\rtment, said the task student body president urged allforce not only found FBI agents students, particularly Student Gov·involved in burglaries but also ernment workers, to participate inturned up a class in breaking and today's activities. 
entering that was giveR by a 
"guest lecturer" at the FBI traia­
Mayday Mass

ing academy in Quantico, VA. 
Another former member of the task force, Stephen Horn, told the set for Monday subcommittee that Bell pleaded 
. University Chaplah Fr. Robertwith an FBI official to recant his Griffin, will celebrate Mass at the 
testimony after the task force told Grotto on Monday, at 5:15 p.m.
the attorney general it wanted to 
The Mass is in honor of Mayday,
indict the official for perjury. 
and the Glee Club will sing. 
Who said An Tostal was just for the ''big kids?" These two youthful vi­sitors enjoyed Thursday's wonderful bal­loon-floating weather. [Photo by Beth Corbin] 

Bell accused of blocking FBI perjury indictments 
WASHINGTON I API-A ttornev '"He told him he did not want to 

Friday, April 28, 1978 

ibe observer 13 

Mr. and Mrs. George Mills of Saluda County, asked him in 

eing transported to the Student Health Center by 
Photo b Beth Corbin 
Literary fame still eludes author of 'Black Beauty' 
LAMAS, England [AP] -Behind an old Quaker meeting house in this Norfolk County village, fresh flo­wers on a grave mark the centenary of the death of Anna Sewell, whose story of a horse called Black Beauty has been read and loved by generations of children. 
Her long-neglected. weed-cov­ered grave was tidied up, and there has been a pilgrimage of school children to the cemetery. Some have come on ponies to pay their respects to the woman who wrote that horses, like people, have feelings too. 
Children from the county seat of Norwich cleaned up the grave before the Tuesday anniversary. In nearby Buxton village, a church memorial service was held. Buxton children visited the cemetery and scattered daffodils on her grave. 
Black Beauty has sold 30 million copies all over the world since it was first published in 1877, and six London publishers currently have it on their lists. 
The story has been filmed, tele­vised and read on the radio countless times in programs for children. 
But standard reference works and literary handbooks disregard its popularity and continue to treat Anna Sewell as an unimportant country woman who wrote nothing of value. 
Anna Sewell's cash return from her one book was just 20 pounds­worth about $90 in those days. She died the year after her book was published, living just long enough to know that it was a great success. 
In Anna Sewell's classic tale, a horse tells of its good and bad times under a succession of own­ers. Social historians acknowledge that the book helped to check unkindness and cruelty to all animals in Victorian England. 
Anna Sewell was born in Norfolk in 1820. When she was a child, she sprained both her ankles so sev­erely that she was an invalid for the rest of her life and never married. She began writing her book in 1871 and spent six years on it, constantly having to lay it aside owing to her increasing weakness. 
Craighead to be featured in fifth dedication recital 
David Craighead, co-chairman of the keyboard department at the Eastman School of Music in Ro­chester, N.Y., will present the fifth in a series of six dedicatory recitals for the new gallery organ in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday. The Sunday vesper services begin at 
7:15 p.m. and are open to the public. 
A professor of organ at t_he Eastman School since 1955, Cratg­head has played recitals in many ?f this country's major cities, tn london. and at five national con­ventions of the American Guild of organists. He is the former organist for the Pasadena Presby­terian Church and presently serves in a similar capacity for St. Pauls's Episcopal Church in Rochester. 
At the age of 18 he was a pupil of Alexandet Mr:-Curdy at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. He was appointed to the faculty 0f Westminster Choir College in Princeton, N.J., in his senior year and was accepted as a touring recitalist by Concert Management, Inc. 
His Notre Dame recital will be on the Holtkamp organ, a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. O'Malley of Woodside, Ca., and will include ''Concerto in A minor'' by Vivaldi. 
. with arrangement by Johann S. Bach; "Fantasie in C Major, Opus 16" by Cesar Franck, and the "Prelude and Theme of Veni Creator" by Maurice Durufle. A new composition by William Albright of the University of Mich­igan. commissioned by the Holt­kamp Company, will be premiered at the recital. The new composition uses a narrative of poetry between short movements demonstrating colors of the organ. The final dedicatory recital on Mav 7 will feature the Noh,_ Dame Bra-ss and Org:u. Ensemble, CtJn­duc:t~d by Fr. George Wiskirchen. 
Winner won't graduate because of prize trips 
LITTLE MOUNTAIN, SC [AP] • High school senior Susan Mills missed 35 days of school competing in contests and taking trips she won. Now school officials say that, despite good grades, she cannot graduate with her classmates this spring. 
The Newberry County School Board voted 4 to 2 this week to require Susan, 18, to make up a course in senior English in summer school or return for a full year at Mid-Carolina High School. The English course is the only require­
ment  she  needs  for  a  diploma,  
although  she  is  taking  other  
courses.  

Yesterday, her parents and ad­ministrators at the school about 30 miles northwest of Columbia were investigating other ways -such as a correspondence course -for her to graduate on schedule June 5. 
Susan won the South Carolina United Teenager beauty pageant and the food and nutrition competi­tion in the state 4-H Club. As a winner she attended the national 4-H Congress in Chicago last fall. 
According to Principal George Kinard, Susan and her parents, 
August if she could miss five days in excess of the 20 already allowed 
so  she  could  attend  the  4-H  
meeting.  
They  argued  the  convention  

would be an educational experi· ence, and Kinard said he agreed to the absences. But Susan also got a week-long trip to Europe and several other trips as part of her winnings. 

Kinard said after Susan reached 35 absences in mid-March, he referred the matter to the school board. "It's a matter where the policies are not explicit enough to give me the latitude to excuse more days," he said. 
South Carolina Board of Educa­tion regulations allow a pupil to have 20 unexcused absences dur­ing the 160-day school year. The regulations allow excused absences only for illness, death in the family, religious holidays and "in accord­ance with local board policies.'' 

Susan said she was not upset about the board's decision. 
"I can understand the situation that the board is in," she said. "But I think the days should be excused because I've shown lead­ership...and my trip to Europe was an educational experience to see London and Paris," she added. 




--------------~------------------------------· 
Friday, April 28, 1978
14 the observer 

live bodies. Here's the catch: all
SUITCASE RACE 1 P.M. doors must close!
Teams of three are given suitcases
Frivolous Friday and goofy clothes. They must race Julie Joyce 7905 to the suitcases, put on the clothes, Mary Black 7908 then race back.
QUAD-TO-QUAD NOON-? 

NEEDLE IN HAYSTACK 3 P.M.
Eileen Shannon 8527 Blast off time! Quad-to-quad Maria Pastuszek 3897 Can you find a needle in a 
haystack? We made it easy; it wiH ·. Still looking·.for .Mr••.• G<>Od~ar? ·•··· •To help y~u, here are.·· the Joitr
music with your stereo speakers 

previous cb:tes and the f:tfth and finaLciue;.
featured. Tune in to WSND (640 KEGTOSS 1:30P.M. be inside an egg. Five eggs will be 
1. Itis Neil's ninths. · · 
in the haystack, four with a little
AM) and show off your sound Will Ross Browner return to break 
2. Turn·tile pages....·· ·..•..•.••..•...·. # · . . . ·· ..··.
' ! 
system. The world wants to hear his old record? Show up and find "suprise" and one with the needle.
'· ·J.Itis notthe ooe on Notre Dame Avenue.
If you get the point of this event,
WSND on Friday afternoon. out. The keg will be emptied and 4. Check itoot with RBR.
f . -~·.···.ood· .· ·..· ·.... -.--. ... -­
.; provided by the An Tostal Chair­you might also get the prize. 
---5-•• -·.Ask··....or_..·.-W··.·. . .·y . --.. _.. ..-_-.. . . . . -. _ _ . --.. ---_----­Allen. -.--.­i GRAFFITHWALL NOON-? man. Separate divisions for guys Marie Vitali 4833 When you find the Mr. Goodbar wrappel';.subtrtitits loe~tion and ·i Express yourself as never before-­and girls. yo~r .. nam,e rutd phrme· nu!lli:Jet to the ··Ombudsman. Office.. A11··. · 
IMPERSONATION CONTEST
creativity at its best! A special wall Tom Feifar 1757 . guesses.must be submitted by noon tom(}l'J;OW· .A drawing ftotD aU
3:30P.M.
will be built on the South Quad just correct entries will be ~Jd and the winner t>f the dtawmg will . 
1:30 P.M. If you sound like John Wayne
for graffitti. (Bring your own TREASURE HUNT or •..•• receivedin~r for .two.at.Doc?ierce'$~ .. -rne winner.of the Lookillg
look like Bozo the Clown, enter this
crayon.) Ho, ho, ho and a bottle of rum. 
. .·· fur· Mt.Good~ar Contest will Qe a;n:nounce~ tatnorrow night at the •· .·.··• 
Norb Sax 1492 Well, not quite, but we have buried one. A panel of 5 judges will judge Irish WakeL .·. ·.. · ·· ·... · ·.. ··· ··.· ... · · · .· ···· ···· · · ···· · ·· ·. ··· who does the best, 2nd best and
some liquid gold somewhere. 
worst impressions. To enter you
EGG TOSS 12:15 P.M. Follow the clues and you will find 
must have lots of talent, or none at
your just reward. Anyone mayTeams of two-each will vie for who 
all. No middJe-of-the-roaders,
enter, just pick up a clue sheet.
can throw an egg the farthest 

please. (South Quad, Washington
Bob Gerth 6243without breaking it. If the egg 
Hall in case of rain.)
Diane DeBoer 7966
.; breaks, you lose. 
Kathy Byrne 4677
Margaret Burke 6909

l Katie Brehl 5107
SLAVE AUCTION 2 P.M. JELLO TOSS 12:15 P.M. Looking for someone to carry your
t 
Hey bigmouth, this one's for you! kegs up four flights of stairs for the BOOKSTORE QUARTER-FINALS .•.•..•..• l/lli()n tieketoffice. Theywilta;IS¢ be sold a.tth,e d00t. The pl;ice Of a Contestants toss cubes of jello back section party Friday night? Or LATE AFTERNOON ···.·· tie:k~t.inci~Jd,e~ niiln~hies.(bt~d; cheese, pretz¢Js, chiP$•. an4 s9ff······
drinks).. ·· ·· · .·.·. ··· · · ··· .· ······ ·..· ··... · · .· · · ·· ·. · ··· ···· ···.·.·· ·· ····. ····.·..·.·. ··· ··.
and forth. The farthest toss wins. maybe your maid has been leaving Leo Latz 8361 But here's the catch: You have to more dirt in your si!Jk than was
1 
catch them in your mouth! Oral there before. Hire a slave to carry BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S HAPPY ~e~·~ the flt$tdue for th~ ~(art bfth¢ A1l tost~ Rda~ Rally: agility helps on this one. (On South out your orders from time of HOUR ..•....·..•. •·y~•ve beeri there many SaB'rd&ys,•but Q11ly in·the falt .We~ltbe .·.·. · there at 9 a.m. outside th(fsouthem wall;'' · 
· 
Quad, between Law School and purchase until 5 p.m. Those of you 4-7 P.M. Alumni.) who arrive early will bet three South Bend's Irish Headquarters 
Jack Brankin 1724 hours of hard work or fun (as the throws the greatest happy hour .··· .ithe. firstannual •. An.... TostarRoad. Runwill ... begin at.J0~30 ··a.m.·..··
{ 
Brian Hanigan 1735 ever. Two-for-one mixed drinks, •.·. tomorrow.. Thethree..ffiile eours~ will startqn the.road just south of
case may be). ~ \ Mary Fickes 4-1-4346 $1.50 pitchers, $.50 shots of any . $t(;!par C~nt~(hy the gat~house) .and ptQ(;leed YJest onthe roa(}·t()·.. PEOPLE PYRAMIDS 12:30 P.M. Bob Fiordaliso 3641 Irish whiskey, $.75 Guiness Stout, ··· · the bus stop by the Orottoann Columba Hall, .·· . · ·.·· · ~ ll Engineers and live bodies wanted! $.25 drafts, plus a raffle for a · Atthe.bus stop, ta,ke a rightand veer rightagain ontothedn<ler 
' 
( The skys the limit as you and your FRISBEE TOSS 2:30P.M. special prize. path•. Makeone dockwi<ie·drcle around St. Joseph's Lake, .then cut ream try for the largest people Fling your frisbee and watch it go. across and make a.counter..cJ<lf]cwise .l®p •around· S~•. Mary'.$ Lake.
{ 
p~·ramid. (South Quad, between Distance and accuracy will deter­NICKlE'S HAPPY HOUR 4-7 P.M. Ne~t, p~ocet!d back east()n toe toad towards Stepan. .• > ....• •·•· .... • Law School and Alumni.) mine the An Tostal Frisbee Champ. Michelob and Mich light $.50. ··········· Take.·a··right(go south) }Snt() ~llenorth~south roa<;t by.the power Jack Brankin 1724 So come on out, show everyone 
···· .. plat'li·and lqop .aroun4 ·the. far·. side.of fjreen-Ph~ltips. ontg North ·
i 
Brian Hanigan 1735 how it's done. Plenty of time left to CARNIVAL [CONTINUES] ·•··· 9~Jad..The fiuisb·line wiltbe between Zahm and Farley•.·.J'imes for .·· 
6:30 P.M.-MIDNIGHT
1 FACE SHAVING 12:30P.M. practice from now until the contest. n~nners willbe read off~le~ch mile mark.. ..··•. . . . ..... .·.····•· ....· 
,I Picture this. Teams of two; one (Weather permitting.) B.Y.O. 'f·shirts wilfbf awarded. to .the.··.·.top placers and ribbons. \V.i.Jlbe
RECESS 104 8 P.M.
·'· Frisbee. ·.. give~ to aJl•fi~ishers. There is qt> ~ntry f~. $imp)y show upblfront .
~ persons puts shaving cream on his throw darts
) Join the tricycle race. 
1 face, the other holds a tongue Mike Smaldone 1488 ••..•.· of Stepan. tomorr()wmorning atl0:30. readytoruo...··••··· •....·.... /..·. .
at your favorite campus notables. 
depressor in his teeth; now the one Come see priests ······• §W-dents.witil questions.$h~Jd {<aU·Pa(SulJivan at.345$...···.•· · 
'i 
etc. the and 
with the tongue depre'ssor CAR STUFFING 3P.M. 
nuns, and revert to those fond days
I4 Get close to your friends, but don't ························rr··y{)U·~ve··•been••·looking for•.·.a··~pecial ··persbn····to····belp····yoU.•make•••the
''shaves'' the face of his teammate. 

of yore when we were all in 
afternoon ·of Frivolous Friday ft1n4illed aaulunforgettahJe,lpok np
' ' That's what this one's all about, so forget the Right Guard. Teams will 
parochial grade school. Free ice 
compete to see who can fill a car in longer! ..· . . ..··..·.· .·.· ......••....·....•.....·.·. ·.· ..•..••....· · ··· .··.··.··•• ...•........•·...•...·· · 
bring a partner and just show up. a
cream will be served to all and
the shortest time and with the most .Just·.. ~rne.Jp the. spectaet11ilt· sl~veauction ....Joi11 }'Jivit]'Jim 
I 
Dan Rauch 8919 sundae-eating contest is being
! ·Dorgan,'' our ostentatious auptioneer,·at 2 p.m..today on the.iSouth 
l planned. To get i, bring your 
Quad(neat Alumni) and you maywalk away with the batgaitl ofa· 
ND/SMC I.D. Card. (Stepan 
lifetime! AU pr~eds go to ('harity. .. . ·
1 Center.) Mary Emich 272-2340 
rc!'>urrecting them in this event in
~­
}• 
Paulette Evans 1337 
on one of SAGA's finest. The which two people form a human victors will dine at the Boar's \'·heelbarros. One person holds his
BLAZING SADDLES MIDNIGHT 
Head. Catch it if you can! partner's legs and walks while the
An Tostal presents the first walk-in 
Dave LaBerg 1244 partner moves himself by his
drive in-movie. Mel Brooks' 
hands. If the person walking on his
Blazing Saddles.will be shown free. 
AN TOSTAL BOWL 2:30P.M. 
hands stumbles. he and the other
(Yes, free!) Just look for the giant 
The Notre Dame women's interhall half of the wheelbarrow must go
screen somewhere on the South 
champions versus Saint Mary's back to the start. So grab a partner

Quad (near the Rock). In case of 
interhall champions compete for and pretend you're six years old
rain. it will be shown in Stepan 
the top slot. 
again!

Center. 
Gene Woloshyn 1074 Jim Canavan 1157 Megan McCready 4-1-4346
& pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
SCA FIGHTING HALFTIME OF FOOTBALL 

EARTH BALL SOCCER 4 P.M. GAME If you survived the Blizzard of '78, 
US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 
Sunny Saturday Who are those strange people? 
then this roly-poly {'\ent is made
272-7433 across from Holiday Inn 
Why arc they wearing those odd for you. South (Juad will try to clothes? And why are they fighting avenge last year"s loss to North

********··~A* A****** 
with swords? Answers to these Quad as the teams battle it out with ROAD RALLY 9 A.M. questions are not guaranteed, but a huge ball. North Quad residents Rally sons (and daughters) of Notre you'll get a better idea at the 
will amass at the East Goal and 
Dame for the annual test of driving Society for Creative Anachronism's South Quad residents will gather at skill. riddle solving, map decipher­sword. fights. 
the West Goal. Roll on over to 
ing and patience with back-scat 
Earth Ball Soccer! (At lnterhall drivers. All you need is a vehicle. HUMAN PYRAMID 
Field behind Stepan Center) Tim Malloy 7820 HALFTIME OF FOOTBALL Mike Padden 1598 Jim Swintal 287-5726 GAME Participants will need to be in pea~ BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 5 PM DECATHLON 9A.M. condition to take top honors in this Men's semi-finals. Ted Howard 3209 competition. Groups will stack Women's finals. campus social climbers on top of Behind the ACC. FIRST ANNUAL AN TOSTAL future cornerstones of society in an Leo Latz 8361 ROAD RUN 10:45 A.M. effort to be high man. To summit up, the pyramid with the most CARNIVAL 1 P.M.-MIDNIGHT
PICNIC ON NORTH QUAD 
levels of kneeling bodies wins a 
11 A.M.-I P.M. 
fabulous no-prize. But won't Mom IRISHWAKE 9P.M. be proud! BEN HUR CHARIOT RACE tom Ford 1244 
12:45 P.M. A Roman procession, complete FLOUR BLOWI~G CONTEST Serene Sunday with blaring trumpets, will iead HALFTIME OF FOOTBALL spectators from lunch to the mud GAME p1ts for this colossal event. Races Here's an event that guarantees a 
IRISH PUB STARTS AT7 P.M. 
begin at 1 p.m. and feature an beautiful white complexion. The Last night to catch the Irish improved course lay-out and a new object of this contest is to blow the Brigade and the music of Ireland. 
women's division guaranteed to flour out of a pie tin and uncover 
You don"t have to be Paddy's Pig to please the howling. blood-thirsty cold cash without using your 
enjoy it! 

mob. The Four Horsemen never hands. Come join the palefaces! looked so muddy. Joanne Kay 8901 CARNIVAL [CONTINUES] J.7 PM 
John Callaway 8791 Mary Pat Ziolkowski 8880 Chris Digan 8850 
BOOKSTOREBASKETBALLSPM 
WHEELBARROW RACES Jocks versus girls.

GREASED PORK CHOP HALFTIME OF FOOTBALL Men's finals. 
CONTEST GAME 
Slam-Dunk Championship.

1:30 P.M. Remember having wheelbarrow Behind the ACC. 
Blindfolded teams of three will take races in kinder~arten? An Tostal is Leo Latz 8361 


Fric¥y, April 28, 1978 
the observer 15 


Million a minute spent on arms 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden [AP] ­The world is spending almost $1 million a minute on arms. 20 times more than industrialized nations spend to help poorer countries. the Stockholm International Peace Re­search Institute said yesterday. 
Current worldwide military ex­penditures total $400 billion and ·'with the current rate it will top $1 trillion by the end of the century." SIPRI Chairman Dr. Frank Barnaby said in releasing the group's 1978 edition of "World Armaments and Disarmament." 
Barnaby, who is British, said worldwide military spending is twice as high as the yearly gross domestic product of the whole of Africa, about the same amount as the gross domestic product of all Latin America and 20 times more than the total annual dev((lopment assistance given by industrialized nations to the developing world. 
The two great superpowers ac­count for more than half the world's military spending. In 1977. the U.S. defense budget \\as $98 billion, compared with a CIA estimate of $130 billion -at American prices · for the Soviet Union. 
Arms trade with the Third World has increased at an annual rate of IS percent during the 1970's, Barnaby said, and four countries have supplied 90 per cent of the major weapons exported to the Third World. 
The United States ranks first, selling 38 percent of the arms imported by the Third World, followed by the Soviet Union at 34 percent, and Britain and France at nine percent each, he said. 
The Middle East is by far the biggest recipient, accounting for more than SO per cent of these imports, Barnaby said. 
The $4.8 billion package of war­planes for Israel, Egypt and Saudi Arabia currently being debated in Washington is an example of the big-money arms deals the United States and Soviet Union make in the Mideast. 
But Barnaby also noted that 20 Third World countries, among them Brazil, India and Iran, are producing major weapons on their own, and many are exporting them to other Third World countries. The institute lists warplanes, missiles, armored vehicles and ships as major weapons. 
Stars can't see Malle's films 
NEW YORK [AP] • Unless they best-selling comic novel about the them in all these recent films, is were accompanied by parent or adventures of a precocious 11-year­
that they know a Jot more about guardian, the child stars in several old visiting her transvestite uncle everything than adults want them of French director Louis Malle's in Paris. 
to know. 
fims couldn't just walk in to the "It's happened to me several "People asked me: 'how can youtheater where they appeared on the times and I think it's very hypocriti­direct Brook Shields to do thingsscreen. Malle's first film in cal, bu what can I do about 
she doesn't know everything
America -"Pretty Baby," is star­censors 1ip," said Malle, who ad­about?' I'm sorry, she knowsring Brooke Shields -is no excep­mitted that "Pretty Baby" -which everything about it. Especiallytion. has no explicit sex scenes -deals children today, 12,13,...with TV,Shields, who turned 12 during with a tough subject. · He said, sexual education now largely pro­the shooting of this film. plays the however, that he believes the vided in schools, they know every­child of a prostitute who grows up ratings system for movies is ''ri­
thing."
in a brothel in Storvville, the New diculous" when "violence is very. 
Orleans red-light district.The film -very heavy on American TV." Malle, 46, has two children, aged set in 1917~ when the bordellos Malle said he would not hesitate 3 and 6. "I'm not married, no, but were closed down by the Navy -to show his children his films. "My I have two children. I was married, also stars Keith Carradine and experience with children, and I've a long time ago, but I've been Susan Sarandon. been dealing with a number of divorced since 1968.'' 
It is rated R, which means restricted: "Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian," according to the indus­
SMC Art Exhibition opens
try code. The film has been banned in parts of Canada. The Saint Mary's department of Douglas Tyler will show mixed The star in "Murmur of the art announces the opening of its media work, a:-~d Carol Ann Carter 1978 Faculty-Student Art Exhibi­will show paintings and prints. The
Heart." which won Malle an Oscar tion at 7 p.m. today in the Moreau two are instructors of art at Saint
nomination for best screenplay in 1973, is a 14-year-old. It's the story and Hammes Galleries. Mary's. 
Also included in the exhibit willabout a boy who sleeps with his Represented in the show will be be outstanding student work, inmother. 
mixed media work of H. James various media. from the freshman.
"He couldn't see the movie in Paradis, chairman of the depart­sophomore and junior classes.
France," Malle said in an inter­ment of art. Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly The Faculty-Student Art Exhibi­view. "It was forbidden to people will show drawings in graphite tion will be shown in the galleriesunder 18, and I think I had the pencil and acrylic wash and Sr. throughout the summer. The same problem with 'Azaie Dans le Rose Ellen Morrissey will show opening reception will be heldMetro,''' his third film 1960. It was weavings. Both are professors in today from 7 to 9 p.m. The artistsadapted from Raymond Quenau's the SMC art department. will be present tonight. 
She laughs, she cries, she feels angry, she feels lonely, she feels guilty, she makes breakfast, she makes love, she makes do, she is strong, she is weak, 
she is br~ve, she is scared, she is••• 

20th Century-Fox Presents 
~--~~ ~---------~----~----PAUL MAZURSKY'S --------­
AN UN ED WOMAN 
~ -~~ ------~--~--·-----· ~ -· --starring ----~--------~~-~---~--~·· -~ ~-~ ---~-------· 
JILL CLAYBURGH ALAN BAIES 
co-starring 

MICHAEL MURPHY CLIFF GORMAN 
rroduced by PAUL MAZURSKY and TONY RAY Written and Directed by PAUL MAZURSKY Music BILL CONTI Now in raperback from Avon COlORIY~IUAI PRINfSI~DeLUX[" 

-----~­
! ""•' ...'Motion l'kou,. Soundu~k ""''"'*~ llloh Conouoy-fo• -""'•...,,....,,, (···\ 
Copyr•g.hr ( 19~8 r~nt•~lh ·• rnrury toa ! •I
'--.a~ 

STARTS TODAY 
CHECK YOUR LOCAL NEWSPAPER FOR THEATRE LISTING 
-----------~-----~ ! 
Friday, April 28, 1978
16 the observer 


. . 
e ore you 
go onyour 
;
'' 
,_ 
· irst interview 

' .·'
.

'J 
' 
; 
etus oaJO _·onyou. 
There may be 50 other guys going after the · job you want. And with competition this rough, you'd 
'. 
better make a good impression the minute you 
walk through the door.
~' 
,., 
Redwood & Ross helps youdo this as few· .
., 
other clothing stores can. ' 
'' 
We have the clothes that succeed in business. 
., 
Nothing outlandish. Only the finest' traditional suits, great looking shirts, ties, and even shoes. 
And we take the work out of matching things up. Our experienced salesmen know just where to find the right ties to highlight a shirt. Or the ­
· . best shirts to complement a suit. 
'· 
Of course, the way clothes look have a lot to do with the way they fit. That's why our tailors are always on hand. They trim, snip, and alter until everything looks like it was made for you. 
By the time you walk out of Redwood & Ross, you'Illook like you are ready to conquer the world. 

Which is no doubt one of the best qualifications for landing your first job. 
ReAwooAi Ross 

All major credit cards honored 
Scottsdale Mall, South Bend 
/ 

Friday, April 28, 1978 

the observer 17 


Baseball Roundup 
sas City starter Larry Gura in theVida wins eighth pulled the Blue Jays to within one at 7-6. 
ATLANTA [AP]-Left-hander Vida Tom Poquette hit two doubles an'.l Blue scattered seven hits and scored three runs for the Royals Willie McCovey drove in four runs and Fred Patek drove in three runs with a three-run double and a solo with three singles. homer Thursday night, giving the Carty's two-run shot in the first San Francisco Giants a 5-3 victory followed Bob Bailor's single and over the Atlanta Braves. gave the Jays a brief 2-0 lead. 
Blue, 2-1, gave up a two-run • homer to Jeff Burroughs in the first inning after McCovey's three-run Texas triumphs 
double had given the Giants a quick ARLINGTON, Texas (AP]-Mike 3-0 lead. But the Giants' starter H h d h' th' d h
argrove eras e ts tr orne 
surrendered just six more hits as run in as many games and Jon San Francisco salvaged the final Matlack and Reggie Cleveland game of a three-game series. combined on a nine-hitter as the 
A walk by Bill Madlock, a single Texas Rangers whipped the Cleve­by Terry Whitfield and a walk by land Indians 3-1 Thursday night.
Darrell Evans set the stage for 
McCovey's double off Dick Ruth-Hargrove, mired in a .196 slump 
at game time, slammed a two-run ven, 2-2, in the first. honer off Cleveland starter Rick The Braves got back into the game Waits, 1-1, in the fifth inning. 
quickly when Barry Bonnell :-vatk~d Waits, a former Ranger who had and Burroughs followed wtth h1s shut out Texas on two hits last second homer of the season, a shot k 'I 
. d wee , sat ed through the first four 
over the left fi1eld f ence. They tte · · b · · 12 f 15 T 
· th th' d h J mmngs y rettrtng o exasthe score m e tr w en erry b tt d d · 1
· 1 d d d a ers an surren ermg on y one
R t 1
oys er smg e , ~to ~ secon an single. scored on ~onnell s sm~le. . But Jim Sundberg opened the !vfcCovey s ho~er to right 10 the fifth with a triple and Bert Campa­
slxth put the G1ants back ahead. · . . 
. th h nens, h1ttmg a paltry .073, knocked
They added a run m e sevent h' · · h · 
hen Blu 1 d ff 'th . 1m tn w1t a smgle. Hargrove
01

~oved e e Wh.tfiwtld' ah~ttntghet, then put the Rangers ahead 3-0 
up 0 n 1 le s 1 a with his shot. chased Ruthven, and scored as M tl k 2 4 tt d · ht · 
Evans singled against Mickey 1 a ba~ ' j ' s~a ethre etg s~nth-
Mahler g es e ore eavmg e game wt · one out in the ninth inning. The Indians scored in the sixth on anRoyals rally RBI single by Larvell Blanks. It was the fourth victory in five 
KANSAS CITY [AP]-Willie Up-games for the Rangers, who got off shaw cracked a two-out, two-run to a miserable 2-9 start this season. double in the ninth inning as the Toronto Blue Jays rallied for an 8-7 victory Thursday night over the 
Twins fall
Kansas City Royals. 
Rico Carty drove in five runs with OAKLAND [AP]-Right-hander a pair of home runs for the Blue Gary Serum, making his first major Jays, who completed a two-game league start, pitched a five-hitter sweep of the Royals while handing and struck out six as the Minnesota them their third straight loss. Twins snapped the Oakland A's 
With two out in the ninth, eight-game winning streak with a pinch-hitters Tommy Hutton and 6-1 victory Thursday. Sam Ewing each slapped singles The victory also ended Minne­off reliever Doug Bird, 1-1, to set sota's nine-game losing streak, the up Upshaw's double to the left field longest in the club's history. wall.$ The Twins took a 2-0 lead off loser 
Carty's three-run homer off Kan-Allan Wirth, 1-2, in the second. 
Mike Cubbage led off with a walk, 
and when Glenn Adams singled to 
right, right-fielder Gary Thomas­
son's throw to third was wild, 
allowing Cubbage to score. Adams 
was thrown out trying to advance to 
second on the play. 
Four consecutive singles by Hos­
ken Powell, Randall, Norwood and 
Roy Smalley accounted for two runs 
in the sixth and Adams' run­
scoring single scored the final run 
in the seventh. 
Serum, 2-0, gave up a home run to 
Wayne Gross leading off the third 
for Oakland's only run. 
Tanana reigns 
ANAHEIM, Calif. [AP]-Califor­nia's Frank Tanana fired a four­hitter Thursday night to beat the Seattle Mariners 5-1 and gain his fifth victory of the season. 
Tanana, S-0, walked two batters and struck out three. 
Tom House of the Mariners retired 16 batters in succession after relieving starter Jim Todd, 0-2, in the second inning. 
California took a 1-0 lead in the first inning when Bobby Grieb singled and scored on Lyman Bostock's first triple as an Angel. 
Carney Lansford led off the Calif­ornia second with a double and scored on a single by Rance Mulliniks to make it 2-0. 
Seattle ended Tanana's bid for his second shutout of the season when Leon roberts homered in the fourth inning. It was the outfielder's third homer of the season. 

Trevino leads in N.O. Open 
NEW ORLEANS (AP]-Lee Trevino birdied the final hole for a spectac­ular 7-under-par 65 that left hope­ful Gary Player four shots off the pace Thursday in the first round of the $200,000 New Orleans Open golf tournament. 
Player, the South African who is seeking to become only the third man in PGA history to win four consecutive events, didn't make a bogey but had to work harad for his 3-under-par 69. 
"he's still the man to beat," Trevino said of Player. "People talk about him being under pres~ sure. No pressure in the world is on him, because nobody expects him to win four in a row. He can free-wheel it." 
Club sport summary 
[continued from page 20] 
to Annapolis, Maryland this past weekend to compete in the National Big Boat Championships. Racing 8 members in a 44 ft boat the team ran into very stiff competition and were unable to do as well as they had hoped. The team however did turn in a good race on Sunday as they captured one race. 
This weekend the team travels to iowa for the iowa Team Races. Winners in this comp~tition will qualify for the nationals that are to be held in California in June. The Notre Dame crew hopes that they will be able to put it together and get some qualifiers for the nation­als. For anybody interested in sailing there are lessons every Saturday on St. Joseph's lake. 
Trevino's 35-footer on the final hole lifted him one stroke ahead of quiet Mark Hayes, who bogeyed the 18th for a 66. 
Tied at 67 in the ideal playing conditions that favored the 7,080­yard Lakewood Country Club course were Ray Floyd, Bob E. Smith and Romero Blancas, who one-putted 11 times. 
The big group at 68, 4 under par on the flat old course that is laced by lakes and streams and studded by moss-hung old oak and cypress trees, were former New Orleans Open chamption MiJler Barber and big Andy Bean, runner-up to Player last week in the Houston Open. 
PGA champion Lanny Wadkins was 6 shots off the pace at 71. 
Tom Watson, twice a winner this season and runner-up to Player at the Masters, made triple bogey-7 on the first hole and finished with a 
73. He was tied at that figure with 
defending title-holder Jim Simons. 
Both must improve Friday if they 
are to qualify for the final two 
rounds. 

"I played pretty nicely today," said Player, wh(} mounted last­round comebacks to win the Mas­ters, Tournament of Champtions and Houston in his last three starts. 
He came into this one needing a victory to become the first man since Jack Burke in 1952 to win four in a row. Byron Nelson, with 11 consecutive victories in 1945, is the only man to win more than four in a row. 
"I'm satisfied," Played said of his effort. "I didn't make as many putts as I have been lately, but that's to be understood--that's what goes with winning 3 in a row. 
"I missed only two greens. Anytime I hit 16 greens, it isn't too bad." 
Trevino, who has played strongly in his last three starts, missed only one green, the 16th. He bogeyed that hole. 
"IL just played well, really," he said. "I've been playing well ever since the weather turned hot.'' 
Trevino, whose last victory came in the 1977 Canadian Open, opened with a rush, taking birdies on four of five holes on the second. 
Purdue hires counselor 
[continued from page 18] basketball coach at the end of the and to challenge for championships past season, will !lecome another in the Big Ten. It takes highly associate director, responsible qualified and experienced people to mainly for personnel and facilities. realize that kind of commitment." Former Purdue football coach Bob 
King also named Purdue business DeMoss will remain assistant dir­administrator Buford Byers to an ector in charge of men's non-rev­associate directorship, responsible enue sports, and Carol Mertler will for the business and financial remain assistant director in charge aspects of the athletic department. of the Boilermaker women's athlet­Fred Schaus, who resigned as ic program. 
ikma leadsSonics 
SEAtTLE [AP] • It's no len.ger too early to begin picking straws to see who might uproot the Portland Trail Blazers as champions of the National Basketball Association. 
Rookie forward Jack Sikma, play­ing like a veteran, scored Seattle's last seven points Wednesday night, including a baseline jumper with nine seconds left, to boost the Super-Sonics to a 100-98 victory over the Blazers Wednesday night and into a 3-llead in their Western Conference semifinal series. 
The Sonics, who won their 16th straight game at home, can win the best-of-seven series and end the Blazers' bid to repeat their playoff heroics of a year ago with a victory in Game Five Sunday in Portland. 
Meanwhile, the Washington Bul­lets can win their best-of-seven Eastern Conference semifinal series with a victory Friday night over the San Antonio Spurs in Washington. The Bullets lead the series 3-2. 
And the Denver Nuggets, who hold a 3-1 edge in their Western Conference matchup with the Mil­waukee Bucks, can wrap up that best-of-seven semifinal series with a victory at home Friday night. 

It was the 6-foot-11 Sikma's fierce rebounding and velvet touch from the field that sent the Blazers tumbling to their second straight loss in Seattle. 
"Jack has come through all year long, but this is probably one of his better performances,'' said Lenny wilkens, Seattle's coach. . 
Sikma scored 11 of Seattle's final 
12  points  and  13  in  the  fourth  
period,  which  began  with  the  
Blazers ahead  81-73.  The  Sonics  

trailed by as many as 14 points on three occasions in the third period. 
"I knew I was scoring a lot late," said Sikma, who finished with 28 points to tie his season high and grabbed 10 rebounds. "I just felt good. A couple of plays were set up distinctly for me. I was just locked in on getting open in the end.'' 
Sports Shorts 
NEW YORK-The New England Whalers will host the Quebec Nordiques in the first two games of the World Hockey Association semifinal playoffs beginning Friday. The Whalers, who are playing their home games at the Springfield, Mass., Civic Center while the Hartford Civic Center is undergoing repairs after the roof caved in, also will be at home on Sunday, April 30. The best-of-seven series then shifts to Quebec for the next two games-May 3 and May 5. The remaining games of the semifinal series, if needed, would be played at Springfield, May 7; Quebec, may 10; and Springfield, May 12. The winner advances to the final against the Winnipeg Jets. 
NEW YORK-CBS' cheerleading championships televised last Monday night opposite ABC's three regionally shown baseball games knocked the major leagues out of the box, CBS said Thursday. According to a network spokesman, the three games-the New York Yankees at Baltimore, Kansas City at Texas and the Chicago Cubs at Philadelphia-drew a 22 percent share of the viewing audience while the 1 '12-hour cheerleaders' show attracted a 37 percent share. 

PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
-=====south Bend, Indiana 46601 =====:II 

Friday, April 28, 1978
18 the observer 
Financial woes 

Pacers failing? 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -The finan­cial situation of the Indiana Pacers, who need $60,000 to meet Friday's payroll and at least $600,000 more by June, is "serious, but not a calamity,'' a team official said Thursday. 
"It is going to work out," said john Jewett, chairman of the Pacer's five-man executive com­mittee. "I'm optimistic it will work out just fine." 
The Pacers assumed a mammoth debt of $3.2 million two years ago when they joined the National Basketball Association. Other bills included indemnities to the two American Basketball Association teams that did not join the NBA. plus continued payments to former ABA players whose contracts had not expired. 
Last year, the Pacers survived by 
staging a last-ditch ticket drive that 
culminated in a telethon on July 4. 
The Pacers reached their goal of 
8.000 season tickets, then reorgan­ized the management. 
The team has been exploring the 
possibility of selling the franchise, 
and Jewett says a meeting with a 
potential buyer may take place next 
week. 
Another plan, which collapsed last 
week, involved "refinancing Mark­
et Square Arena whkh would have 
permitted new mortgage funds to 
come into the arena, which in turn 
could have been invested in the 
Pacers... Jewett said. 
That possibility fell through when a "prospective lender decided not to do it," the Pacer chairman said. "At this moment, we're continuing an alternate of the refinancing plan ... borrowing $1.5 million. The Pacer ticket sales the past season grossed $2.8 million. The club operated in the black on day-to-day expenses. But by June, the team needs ''roughly. around $600,000 to $700,000," Jewett said. "That's 
STEREO CAMPUS REP WANTED! 
Hungry entrepreneuroal type needed to sell name bran<l H•·f•. car stereo. TV, etc to fnends & faculty Tremendous earn•ng paten· t1al Send for application by ma1hng th•s ad to 
MUSICISOUNO OIST., DEPT. C-178 6 7 30 SANTA BARBARA CT BALTO. MD 21227 


for expansion-related expenses and payroll and operating expenses." 
Does  he  realistically  think  the  
Pacers  will  come  up  with  the  
needed money?  

"Yep," Jewett said. "It looks like we will get that. Of course that can change in two hours time, but right now it looks practical." 
"Really, we only need $1.5 million for the next two years .. .It would be disastrous for Indianapolis not to be represented in the NBA. There's no sense in not fighting, scratching, and biting to keep this excellent ambassador of good will.'' 
If all else fails, will the league step in to rescue the franchise? 
"I don't think so," Jewett said. "They're familiar with our situa­tion. But we're not looking to them and I don't think there would be any money coming from that source." 
Guidance for athletes 
WEST LAFAYETIE Ind. [AP]­Pressures of competing at the major collete level "have become so great that we must be in a position to provide qualified guid­ance and counseling,'' says Purdue Athletic Director George King. 
"It is extremely important that we make every effort to assist our athletes in attaining their degrees and finding suitable employment after graduation." 
To achieve that goal, King has appointed a new assistant director, giving the task of keeping Boiler­maker athletes academically eligi­ble to Bob King. 
Bob King, who has not related to George, has served as an adminis­trative assistant at Purdue for the past eight years since stepping down as assistant basketball coach. 
Another critical area, says George King. is money, and he has appointed Richard Thornton as assistant director in charge of athletic fund raising. Thornton, a member of the Purdue Alumni Foundation, will direct the John Purdue Club, the Boilermaker fund-raising organization of nearly 3,000. 
"The need for significant private funding to supplement gate re­ceipts has become a consensus throuthout the Big Ten Conference and is absolutely ~ssential if we are to meet our total commitment, especially to the men's and wo­men's non-revenue sports, .. George King said. 
"Traditi8nally, the John Purdue structure has provided generous funds for our program. It is imperative that it receive individual attention and guidance." 
''There is no question that college athletes at this level is big busi­ness," King added. "We owe it to the alumni, the community, our fans and our student body to excel 
[continued on page 17] 
•
IS 
yt..s e~;-UldJ!b© 
WE.U.1 WE'VE ~E£N 5nrtNG H&!E WAlTI NG. FoR. A G>Ho~r FoR. ~REE HOOR.S. WHERE IS TJ.H LEGENDARY WASI·HNGToN 
GHD'5T ?'f 


BUT o~E THING JS FOff 
CERTAIN-IN VEIVED ~ < 
WORLDS LIKE THIS WILL .'-. ALWAYS EXIST As LONG... 




The Uncoln Highway Inn can meet your 
requirements for a No 1 oanquet or a No. 1 graduation party 


entertainment with dance floor 
I 
I I 
l I 

I . 
Contact the L. H. Inn-255-4786 or VISit us 
J) I 

' 
2754 Lincolnway East Mishawaka . This add entitles bearer to 1 FREE carafe of wine with meal.
·~ 
----·-----_____.. _ I~--o--·-----•· 
/ 
' 

·--~------··-----··· ·--·--···--------·-------­
~0Ff>f>Se~~ ~t(:Jdi0 
rr------------------------------~
1/'0N'r WORRY~ 11E 1Ll SJ.toto ()P_ MV8E HE'S STILL SI..EE:PtN<O / 
-"'Oo
.· ........ 

THAT HE PAID FOR A BOOK~HELF5 -­
,,'I 
' 

Friday, April 28, 1978 the observer 19 
Wolverines sign JC basketball forward 
ANN ARBOR,Mich. (AP) -Thad Garner, a 6 foot 7, 190-pound foreward and three-time most val­uable player for Bishop Noll Insti­tute in Hammond, Ind., Wednes­day signed a national letter of intent to enroll at Michigan, the university reported. 
Garber averaged 21 points and 13 rebounds this season in helping Bishop Noll to a 19-7 record, and was named to the Associated Press all-state first team. 
The left-handed shooting Garner is the leading rebounder in the school's history and its second-lea­ding scorer. This season he also topped the squad in assists, block­ed shots and steals. 
''Thad is one of the finest fore­ward prospects in the country," said Michigan coach Johnny Orr. "He's a typical Michigan student-said Jim Vruggink, assistant sports information director. 

The acquisition of Garner giV'•·• Michigan several recruits Orr co:1· siders capable of stepping right into a starting position -like Mike McGee did last season. McGee, a foreward form Omaha, Neb., went on to become the leading scorer on the team and one of the leading scorers in the Big Ten. 
Orr also is looking foreward to the return of Olympian and All-Amer­ican Phil Hubbard, out all last season with an injury. 
athlete. He's everything we want in a player. He's the finest defensive player I have seen this year in high school." 
Garner is the fourth player to sign with rhe Wolverines this year. They have one more tender and may or may not use it this season, 


NOTICES 

Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call 287-5162. 
Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh & back for An Tostal Week­end. She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company' Call 6734. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc...typed. 
IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 
287-4971. 
Long Island truck filling up. Deadline for deposits May 6. Send $5.00 deposit to Kevin Mescall, 319 Alumni Hall. Questions call Kevin 1181 or Ed 7443. 
Save next year's book money now. PANDORA's buys used books for cash or credit-applicable next year. Besides we have great books for summer reading. 937 South Bend Ave. 11-6 daily. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 ·'When you want the Best." Resumes: $3.00/page. 
Truck your goodies home to Rochester, NY. Call Frank, 232-3455. 
Don't forget! The Logan kite flying recreation period is from 9:00-11:30 a.m. this Saturday morning at Logan Center. A little kite building and flying will get you in good spirits for the An Tostal events later in the day. If you have questions please call Mike at 1216 or Sue at 4-1-4783. 
FOR RENT 

Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Rent my sun porch in fall. $40.00 per month. Ask for Patty in orders. 233-1329 nights. 
4-5-6 bdr. houses near Portage and Angela. Rent adjusted to number of students. These are well-maintained houses. Call 234-6688. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: Glasses, wire-rim in brown case. Front of Morrissey. Please call Steve 3419. 
FOUND: Timex watch with black leather band at the volleyball courts near the Towers. Call Ted (3209). 
FOUND: General Motors car keys in the field behind the ACC. Call 2132. 
FOUND: Timex watch by Saint Mary's Lake Call 2132. 
LOST: Blue NO jacket at Nickie's. Reward. Name in jacket. 
.... 



' •,) 
a 
Frid.ay,; April 28, 1978 
20 the observer 

i 
Club sports:complete spring season 
By Bill CaldweU ous assist and Tom Smith had 
Sports Writer scored 3 times by the time the final 
gun had sounded. Als,o scoring for 
The "A" and "B." teams of the the Irish were Paul Mueller and 
fighting Irish Rugby Club outclas­Paul White who each had two 
sed the University of Chicago "A" scores. Mark Tovey, Mike MeG­
and "B" teams with the execution Glynn, and Mike Roohan each 
that the "G· een Machine" display­added single marks. ,Ivan "Tex" 
ed as they demolished Southern Keffler also scored as he converted 
Cal and Texas. This past weekend on a kick. 
the Ruggers "A" team won by a The Notre Dame "B" team cont­
score of 48-3 and the "B" team inued the scoring onslaught to 
romped to a 42-0 decision. maintain their undefeated season. 
Tom Smith began the onslaught of The "piggies" displayed spectac­
scoring for the Irish Ruggers early '"lar open field running in both the 
in the first half of the "A" game. backfield and the serum. Mark 
From the first tally on the Notre Wallace, Matt O'Brian, and' Pat 
Dame backs had a field day as the "The Hood" Flynn each scored 
Chicago backs were unable to put twice with tremendously long runs. 
up an effective defense against the Jim Bowers, Pete Logan, and Joe 
physical Irish team. The Notre Gill also touched the ball down in 
Dame serum was relentless in their the end zone for trys. 
attack on Chicago and they provid-In addition to the fine perfor­
mances on the "Pitch", the rugby ed the backs with numerous oppor­club elected the new offices. John tunity to run with the ball. Tony O'Connell was elected President, Mendiola, a veteran, had numer-Mike Roohan Vice-President, Herb 
Ted Robinson 

============================================:=====:===============:=:===================:===:=:=:=:============= 
I 
Post-playoff Blues 
Now that their NBA seasons are over, two teams that are ready for 
massive shakeups are the New York Knicks and Los Angeles Lakers. 
despite making the playoffs for the first time since 1')74, fans and 
management expected more from the Knicks and rookie coach Willis Reed Glose Secretary, Kevin Corcoran the Treasurer. The co-captains for tough competition against Purdue
this year. Certainly the talent was there to accomplish more. Treasurer, Paul Mueller at large, next season are John Gray and University this past weekend. The 
Unfortunately, the bodies were there some nights and heads' others. The Dave Gamash at-large, and Pete John Romanelli. ND-SMC women dropped races as Knicks never quite found the formula to put things together. Keogh at-large. This new regime 
The team will be in action on did the ND men. The JV team also 
The first scapegoat of the Knick turnaround may be Reed.: There were will now take over as they prepare Saturday ~ith two games sched· met defeat at the hands of the few people who found Reed to be an intelligent coach an ev~n less found for the last game of the season at uled. The "A" game will start at 
Boilerniakers. The novice men fell 
him diplomatic. He'll never make the referees' list of the '10 best-liked home this Saturday against John nuon and the "B" game will start to Culver Military Academy. 
coaches. New Madison Square Garden boss Sonny Werblin realizes that a Carrol. Game time is set for 1 :00. at 2:00. Both teams will face the This weekend the Crew will be in winner is needed to refill the once-sold out Garden. So, Reed may be on The La Crosse Club held their 
City of Chicago La Crosse Club. On one of the more important events of the street. I annual elections on Wednesday Sunday the "A" team will face thL· vcar as thev travel to the 
If Reed goes, his replacement will probably be New Jersey Nets coach night and Tim Walsh was elected Lake Forest College at 2:00. All U nivcrsitv of Wisconsin in Madison 
Kevin Loughery. Loughery doesn't like Piscataway and who can blame President for the coming year. Bob three games are on the fields tu compete in the Midwest Sprints.
him. He's a native New Yorker with a comfortable home o~ Long Island Curley was elected Vice-President behind Stepan Center. The Sailin_g Club sent 12 members 
and a desire to coach the Knicks. ! and John Vercruysse was elected to The Crew team ran into some [continued on page 17] 


Now, Loughery has a long-term contract with the Nets. Bu~. Net owner Roy Boe owes the Knicks four million dollars for moving to ~ew Jersey. Most people agree that Loughery is his most valuable possession, so Kevin could become the first basketbal coach to be involved in an indemnification case. · \ 
Seaver suffers spring slump 
As far as players go, Jim McMilliam and Earl Monroe are !p-ee agents, and it's doubtful WervJin will try to sign them. Also spencer ltaywood will aNCINNATI <AP) -In spring answt.•r to me. not to writers.·· qlllvkly a~ anticipated and he has probably be sent elsewhere as the Knicks will build around Bob McAdoo, training. the question was whether Doug Rau. who spaced 10 hits to hccn 'icrat,:hed from a scheduled Ray Williams and , they hope, Marvin Webster. \ Tom Seaver would win 30 games. give the Dodger 'itaff its sixth -.tarting rule Saturday. 
Webster, the free-agent-to-be center of Seattle, will be woqed by large Now the question is when Seaver enmplete game in seven outings "I know I'll pitch again. I just sums of Gulf and Western capital. The Knicks would dearl~ love o see will win. said Seaver wa-.n't himself. dun't knov. when.·· said Bonham, Maryin in the middle so McAdoo can concentrate solely on hif first love, So far, Seaver has gone 0 for .. He had pup on "'me of his \\'ho """ JO v. hen his elbow became scormg. 1 April, with a 0-2 record and an pitrhL·s. hut he l11ukl•d uut of sym· intlammed when he injured it April 
Meanwhile, on the opposite coast, the star-studded Los Angeles Lakers earned run average of 5.00 after 11n otht•rs. I don't kno\\ if it's a 1"'. flopped badly in the playoffs. A roster loaded with four All-$tars and a five starts. In his last effort, the ph~·skal thing or not.·· said Rau. .. Right now. I can't throw like I Rookie-of-the-Year could fare no better than a feeble attempt at! advancing three-time Cy Young Award winner J-0. \\'ant to in a game and until I can in the playoffs. · i lasted four innings as the Los "If it is.·· said Sher rd. "he's throu properly on the sidelines. 
Unlike the Knick situation, Jerry West will probably not be ~lamed for Angeles Dodgers battered him for keeping it to himself. .. there's no way I can pitch in a che Laker downfall. Instead, massive roster changes are in store. After eight hits and five runs, all earned. Shepard feels the remedy might game." all, if Dave Robisch is yout playoff star, something is wrong. ~ "It's like Pete Rose going 0-forlb. be more runs. 
On began to wonder during the season whether Kareem Ab4ul-Jabbar You know he's going to come out "If we could just give him a 
%Observer 

was an asset or a detriment, but the Lakers are stuck with him.. Now the of it," said Larry Shepard. pitching lead... he said. "We haven't been Lakers have to learn to surround him with complimentary players. Adrian coach of the Reds. giving him very many runs.·· Dantley and Jamaal Wilkes are not complimentary players. Dantley will "He just doesn't have it together Seaver. a five-time 20 game probably stay and Wilkes go. Between Don Ford and Tom Abernathy, the yet. He isn't throwing as consist­winner. figured to be near-invin­
Sports
Lakers will survive until Kenny Carr is ready for stardom. antly hard as he should. I think cible with the Reds. But so far. 
Don't be surprised if the Lakers unload Charlie Scott and pursue a he's trying to overthrow ... force it." Cincinnati's awesome attack has guard in the draft. Lou Hudson and Norm Nixon were outstanding in the Seaver wasn't around to explain been strangely silent when Seaver stretch drive and a rookie could be groomed for Hudson's spot. his difficulties after Wednesday's pitches. 
Bookstore

In any case, these two pro basketball teams are learning that talent game. According to a club em­In 27 innings, he has received only doesn't wi.J in the NBA, but playing together does. ployee, the five-time 20-game win­five runs. Last week at San Hockey's answer to the Knicks and Lakers is the Buffalo Sabres. For ner left the ballpark "long before Francisco he allowed only two hits 
Basketball 

the third consecutive year, the Sabres have swooned in the quarter-final the game ended -and he left in a in seven innings. but left the game round of the playoffs. After being the feature team on the NHL Game of hurry." trailing 1·0. In bookstore basketball action the Week this year, the defeat comes as a double embarassment to GM Reds' Manager Sparky Anderson Seaver. who won 14 of 17 deci­yesterday, the Jackson Five de· Punch Imlach. admitted that a team rule says sions after being traded to Cincin· feated the Three Hundred Percent 
Goalie Don Edwards should win a special award for posting a "every play·er on the team has to nati in mid-June, contends his Club by a score of 21-9. The phenomenal2.64 goals against average with the Sa_bres' mediocre defense stay until I walk throuth the door." troubles arc in his deliverv. He has winners were paced by namesake 
Tracy Jackson who connected on
in front of him. That's hwere Imlach will make his first changes. Jim But he sidestepped the question struggled all spring. winning only Schoenfeld already has his bags packed for Minnesota and rumors have when asked if Seaver was in the one of five starts during the St'Ven of 12 field goal tries. Jerry Korab and Rene Robert on the block. club-house after the game. exhibition season. Jackson also hauled in seven 
Violence has once again come fonvard in the NHL playoffs as the Bristling, he said: "they don't Meanshile, Bill Bonham's injured rebounds and blocked two shots. 
Mark Norman and K.C. RyanToronto Maple Leafs have resorted to physical tactics (termed as "goon" have to stay for any ... writers. They right elbow has not healed as added four baskets apiece for thein some circles) in an attempt to upset the New York Islanders. Ontario winners.
Attorney General Roy Me Murty has announced that he will not hesitate to In tourney action today Tappaprosecute any rough behavior in tonight's sixth game. In Sunday's fourth 
Blue-Gold contest slated 
Kegga Brus squares off againstgame, there were five separate fights. 
Chumps Too at 5:30. That contestAlso, Leaf owner Harold Ballard resorted to · • Slapshot'' tactics after his adults, $1.00 for children •li and will feature a matchup of Billprize defenseman, Borje Salming, was cut by a stick Sunday night and The annual Blue-Gold intrasquad under. TicKets will also be avail­Laimbeer and Bill Hanzlik. At 6:20sidelined for the series. Although most observers termed the incident football game winding up spring able at the stadiui'R"' the day of the Tiles V will battle the Jackson Five
accidental, Ballard procl&imed before Tuesday night's fifth game, "We'll practice will be held in Notre Dame fix those guys.'' The Leafs lost, 2-1 in overtime. Stadium on Saturday. May 6 at 2:00 game. priced at -$3.00 for adults and Leo's Last will face Strapamas· 
and $1.50 for children. Dates. quon and His Combat Wombats.
It was nice to see the Chicago papers blast the animalistic behavior or PM. 
spouses. parents. etc. must have And, at 7:00 p.m .. TB Express IBlack Hawk fans during their recent playoff series. It's very rare that a Notre Dame and St. Mary's tickets. No seats will be reserved. will play the Butcher Brothers.
city's media will admit to something lacking within heir populace. But. in students will be admitted upon The game is sponsored annually The winners of these contests will
this instance, as a liquor bottle flew towards to the head of Bruin Terry presentation of ID cards at gate O'Reilly, the criticism was justitied. fifteen only. by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of play in the semifinals on Saturday. 
St. Joseph Valley and supports the The finals will be held Sunday
Yet, .wouldn't you feel frustrated if you paid $18.75 for a ticket to watch General admission tickets for the the Hawks play? Maneuvers like that pricing of seats by the Hawk public are available at the ticket club's scholarship fund which cur­behind the ACC. WSND AM 
rently sustains twelve students of · (6400) will broadcast the champion­
management won't help hockey be near anyone's heart. ·Sales window, Athletic and Convo­cation Center, priced at $2.50 for this area at the university. ship game. 









