Baseball owner entertains crowd 
by Bob V arettoni we didn't see all last year; he the way we've been playing, I'm losing streak. 
asked each person "to oppose
Senior Staff Reporter catches the ball in right field." delighted to be anywhere," Veeck "I'm not sure what kind ef club 
bigness and mechanization." He 
, "I'm delighted to be here. But joked about his team's recent we have this year. I know we've 
said people are becoming lost in a 
Bill Veeck, owner of the Chicago White · lX baseball team, took some ta. :et practice last night during his speech in Washington Hall. 
Joking that he was "perfectly willing to assassinate anyone's reputation," Veeck called George Steinbrenner, the New York Yan­kee's owner, "the only guy I've met who Dale Carnegie would punch right in the mouth." 
Veeck also described modern symmetrical ballparks as "concrete and steel abortions," the Chicago Cubs as "that other club, that doesn't have any parking," and astroturf as just plain "ugly." 
The owner who introduced turn of the century uniforms and fireworks to Chicago's Comiskey Park also took a shot at baseball's free agents. He said he was "happy" to Jet Richie Zisk, Chicago's star­ting rightfielder last year, seek more money with the Texas Ran­gers. 
"Richie Zisk gave the White Sox 
four and a half glorious months. 
Unfortunately, the season lasts six 
months," he said. He added that 
Bobby Bonds, Zisk's replacement, 
"has been doing something lately 
St. Mary's extends parietals unti/2 am 
ally with several faculty membersby Jean Powley on the subject, as well as withSaint Mary's Editor 
many students. Student Government also initiated Saint Mary's parietal hours have its own poll of faculty, student andbeen extended to 2 a.m. on Friday alumnae opinion.
and Saturday nights effective this This is the first extension ofFriday, President John M. Duggan parietals at Saint Mary's sinceannounced in a letter to be distri­Duggan extended them from 10buted to students today. The new p.m. to midnight on Fridays andhours will be in effect for the rest of Saturdays when he first came herethis semester, after which time the in July 1975.
policy will be reviewed and re­Last year's Student Governmentevaluated. 
administration under Mary LuDuggan feels that the trial period Bilek worked very hard to extendis necessary hecause. although he weekend hours to 2 a.m., butthinks it will work. he wants "to without success because of student be sure it continues to work." 
apathy. No one turned in the''It was a reasonable proposal and parietal questionnaires distributedI considered it on its merits." 
to them.
Duggan said. "and I'm convinced Mary Rukavina, Saint Mary'sit is a positive step." 
1977:78 SBP, on the other hand,Before any final 'decision was took a "no fuss" approach andmade on Student Government's by-passed the student surveys.
proposal to extend parietals. it was Instead, she went to the Student

discussed and unanimously en­approved the last of two Panama ability· to conduct an effective ies as it sees fit.
Assembly which directed her at its
dorsed by the Student Affairs Canal treaties yesterday, agreeing foreign policy. As the hour for ratification vote
Oct. 17 meeting to draw up a
Council. The extension was also to relinquich control of the water­To gain the votes for victory, approached, the ouj:come remained 
proposal. They approved it in
discussed by the executive board of way in the year 2000 and giving Carter and Senate leaders had in doubt, and both sides worked
November. And now, five months
the Parents' Council and the col­President Jimmy Carter a narrow agreed on an amended version of a feverishly to corral decisive votes.
later, it is college policy, on a trial
lege's senior officers. In addition, 
but crucial victory. treaty reservation sought by Sen. They focused on three law-mak~rs

basis.
Duggar. said that he spoke person-
The vote was 68-32, the same Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz. who refused to say oublicly where margin by which the Senate ap­The reservation spells out U.S. they stood, but whose decisions proved the first treaty on March 16. rights to take any action, including would determine the fate of the The margin of victory was only one military force, to keep the canal treaty. more than tbe two-thirds majority open in case of work stoppages or All three-Howard Cannon, D­required by the Constitution. other internal disruptions. Nev.; James Abourezk, D-S.D. and 
The same 68 senators who voted DeConcini, Senate leaders and S.I. Hayakawa, R-Calif.-voted for for the first pact also approved the Carter, agreed to a compromise the first of the two treaties, which second. giving the United States those was narrowly approved last month, White House press secretary Jody rights. The compromise also as­but withheld support of the second. Powell said Carter immediately serted, however, that the United Cannon told reporters he had called Senate Majority Leader States would not be permitted to informed Carter that he •'was Robert C. Byrd to express appreci­intervene in Panama internal af­leaning against" the treaty but ation for "a beautiful vote." fairs or violate its sovereignty. indicated he would support it if the Powell said Carter followed broad­In approving the so-called DeCon­Senate agreed to a reservation he cast accounts of the voting. cini reservation at a 73-27 vote, the planned to introduce concerning 
The first treaty commits the Senate removed what had been the interest payments of $20 million a United Stat•!s and Panama to biggest obstacle to ratification of year that the United States has maintain the neutrality of the the second of the two canal been receiving from the Panama international waterway, which is treaties. Canal Co. for its initial investment open to ships of all nations. Panamanian officials, who origin­in the canal. 
Yesterday's vote completed the ally raised strong objections to The refusal of the three senators deal, providing for actual transfer DeConcini's proposal had indicated to commit themselves left 65 ofthe waterway to Panama on Dec. they could accept the compromise. senators lined up in favor of the 31, 1999. Shortly before the final vote the treaty and 32 against. Thus, if all It came after nearly 40 days of Senate rejected an effort by Sen. 100 senators were present and 
Senate debate, and after intensive Robert Griffin, R-Mich., to send voting, the proponents would need lobbying by Carter and his associ­the treaty back to Carter for two more to ratify the pact and the ates, who said that rejection would renegotiation. The vote· was 64-36. opponents would need two to undermine the president's ability In offering his unsuccessful mo­defeat it. 
to conduct foreign policy. tion, Griffin argued that the Senate Sen. Jennings Randolph, D-W. Carter and Panamanian leader was "seting the stage for an almost Va., announced he would vote Gen. Omar Torrijos signed the inevitabl~ confrontation between against the second treaty as he did treaties in a ceremony in Washing­the United States and Panama" by the first. That left the outcome in ton last fall, and the administration "papering over serious and ob­the hands of Hayakawa, Cannon, has contended that their ratifica-vious differences" allowing each [continued OD PIP 2} 


improved, the question is whether 
society that has a "fetish" for
we've improved enough," he 
computers and standardization. 
added. 
"Just think what you can do to an
At least, Veeck noted, the White 
IBM card with a ballpoint pen,'' he
Sox won't have as bad a season as a 
noted. He also suggested that 
team he once owned, the St. Louis 
instead of throwing junk mail,
Browns. The Browns had "without 
•'Take the junk mail from one guy
question the greatest performer 
and put it into another guy's return 
I've seen walk on to a field, LeRoy 
postage envelope."
Satchell Paige," but few fans. 
, For his second request, Veeck
• • A guy came up to me once and 
asked for respect for "the largest
wanted eight tickets, so I knew he 
minority group in the world," left 
was from out of town." Veeck said 
handed people.
he asked him if he wanted seats at 
"Did you ever hear a preacher say 
second base since they "weren't 
that a wonderful man was leftous," 
using it that year, anyway. He 
he asked. "Lefthanders of the 
asked me what time the game 
world arise, you have nothing to 
started. I said, • Anytime it's 
lose but your worthless rights."
convenient for you."' 
Veeck is the author ofthree books,
Veeck described last season, 
Veeck as in Wreck, the Hustler's 
when the White Sox won 90 games, 
Handbook, and THirty Tons a Day. 
as "phenomenal." "Joy is a word 
Veeck purcahased the Cleveland
that has fallen into disrepute," he 
Indians in 1946, the St. Louis 
said. "But the crowds in Comiskey 
Browns in 1951, and the White Sox 
Park were joyous." 
in 1959.
During a question and answer 
After selling the White Sox in
period, the owner invited the 
1961, he managed the Suffolk
Chicago Bears football team to 
Downs racetrack until he rein­
consider playing at Comiskey. 
vested in the ballclub in 1976.
"We'd be delighted to have 
Student Body President Andy
them," he said. 
McKenna introduced Veeck, cal­
Veeck asked the audience of 200, 
ling him a "Chicago hero." 
which gave him a standing ovation, 
Veeck's talk was sponsored by the 
"for a couple of favors." First he 
ND/SMC Junior Class. 



The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 120 Wednesday, April19, 1978 
By minimal margin 
Senate approves second treaty 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The Senate tion is crucial to the president's government to interpret the treat­
the observer __ Wednesday, April19, 1978 
,...News Briefs--------.... 
~-==-=====================================World Vance to open talks~ 
MOSCOW-Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance arrives in the Soviet capital today for talks with Kremlin fe~ders ai~e~ at. breaking down the barriers holding up a new strategtc arms hmttatton treaty, seen as the linchpin of U.S.-Soviet detente. Bo~h _side~ recognize ~he,Y risk unraveling the whole process of negottattons tf progress tsn t made soon on a new SALT pact to replace the one that expired last Oct. 3. The high stakes have made Vance's visit here a turning point for U.S.-Soviet relations. 
Taxes kept down . 
WASIDNGTON-House tax writers voted yesterday agatnst s_harply reducing income tax deductions for medi~al. expen.ses, reJecttng another tax-raising measure proposed by Prestdent Jt~my Ca~~r. The House Ways and Means Committee. app~oved a mil~er rev~s~on of the existing rules on medical deductions m a tentattve dectston potentially affecting millions of taxpayers. 
Indiana dunes expand 
·wASHINGTON-Indiana Congressman Floyd Fithian asked a House appropriations subcommittee yester<~a:y for more mon~y . for development of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. F~t~tan, whose district includes the Dunes, requested an addttional $1,340,000 for operations, planning and construction. ~e 2~d District Democrat said the money for the project was authonzed m 1976 but noted that the administration had been slow to allocate it. Fithian told his fellow representatives, "We cannot become complacent about the preservation of the Indiana Dunes. 
Weather 

Cloudy, windy and cool today with a 30 percent chance of showers. 
Highs in the low to mid 50s. Tonight and tomorrow, partly cloudy 
and cool. Lows tonight in the low to mid 30s. Highs tomorrow in the 
upper 40s to low 50s. 

~On Campus Today __......,. 
12:15 pm 
3:25pm 

4:30pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 5:15pm 6:30pm 6:30pm 
7,9,11 pm 7pm 
7 pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 
8 pm 8:15pm 
8:45pm 
_ 

seminar "finding new drugs through micro­biology,:' dr. edward o. stapley, merck inst.. for therapeutic research, sponsored by dept. of micro­biology, 278 galvin aud. 
special seminar, "genetic engineering-pro and con," prof. harvey bender, nd, sponsored by chem. engr., 265 chem engr. bldg. 
colloquium, "physical consideration of magnetic bubble materials," dr. philip e. wigen, oh1o st. u., sponsored by physics dept., 118 nieuwland science hall. 
reilly lecture, "the concerted regulation of physio­logical processes through calcium," prof. e~mond h. fischer, sponsored by chem. dept., 123 meuwland science hall. 
ward-phillips lecture series, "joe miller's jests," prof. ronald paulson, mem. lib. aud. • 
faster's mass, rev. william p. joy, sponsored bu hunger coalition, walsh hall chapel. 
meeting, sailing club, 204 engr. bldg. 
presentation, "the pr~~ical aspects of se_lf defense and attack evasion, south bend police dept., student body welcome, admission free, sponsored by nd judo club, ace wrestling pit. 
film, "the enforcer," sponsored by lacrosse club, engr. aud. 
career workship, "skill identification & resumes," leslie wilson & mary ann daly, sponsored by career development, mccandless piano room. 
meeting "the continuation of chinese language at notre d;me " sponsored by amerasian alliance, all interested students welcome, Iafortune seating area. 
american scene cultural series, "of time & the family," prof. joan aldous, nd, carroll hall, smc. 
films "the lottery," "why man creates," "leo-the see-thru crumpicker," sponsored by nd film society, admission free, 232 moreau hall, smc. 
lacrosse, nd vs. michigan, home. 
concert, nd chorale, sponsored by music dept., sacred heart church. 
discussion, dr. emil t. hofman, sponsored by st. edward's academic commission, st. edward's hall. 
-------:----­



Security tight as Nixon book printe 
CRAWFORDSVILLE* Ind. [AP] 
• A representative for Grosset & Dunlap, Inc., publishers of former President Richard M. Nixon's memoirs, said yesterday that the book was being printed here amidst very tight security. 
Irving Ross, vice president in charge of production for Grosset & Dunlap said R.R. Donnelley & Sons began printing the book Sunday under security measures that were "intricate and necessary." 
Donnelley's has been contracted to publish the first 225,000 copies of the book titled, "R.N., the Memoirs of Richard Nixon." There will be a $50 special edition and the others will sell for $19.95 in book stores across the country, Ross said. 
Ross said he picked Donnelley & Sons to print the book because of an earlier experience with the firm that left him with a good impres­sion of its ability to keep close security on the product. 
Copy for the book was set at a Donnelley plant in Elgin, Ill. and Ross brought it to the Crawfords­ville plant Saturday. Work on the book started on Sunday amidst extremely tight security at the plant which employs 2,200 persons. 
Ross said the security measures were necessary to prevent early release of the book. Only persons with Donnelley identification can 

Courts rule against parent~, boy undergoes treatments 
• 
. PLYMOU!H .M~s. [AP]· Over hts parents objectton, 2-year-old Chad Green must undergo t~e ~hemotherapy th~t may sav~ hts ltfe from leukemta, a state JUdge 
ordered yesterda~. . . 
"If treated, thts chll~ wtll r~n, play and go to school, Sup~rtor Court Judge G~y. Volt~~ra dectded in a 46-page optnton. Untreated, he will lapse into pain and death: The agony of d~ath from l_euke_mta is far more patnful to thts mmor 
h · · I 'd ff t nd
t~an ! e mtntma st e e ec s a ptnp~!cks caused by chemother­apy. , He or~ered the boy s treatment to contmue. at .Massachuse~ts 
General Hospttal tn Boston, whtch had gone to court to seek such an order. , 
_The boy s parents, _Gerald and Dt~ne Green_, of Scttuate, had clatmed the stde eff:-cts of ~hemo­!?e~apy ~urne?, thetr son . mto a 
wtld antmal. They satd theywould confer with attorneys before deciding whether to appeal. . However, Judge_ Vo~ter~~ satd h~ 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Tom Beh­ney Layout Staff: Lenore Koczow, Mike Jackson, Sue Johnston Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Various people who, m my opinion, did not work hard enough to be mentioned. e.m.t.; me (although I'm also not worth mentioning) Day Editor: John C. McDer­mott Copy Reader: Jerry Perez Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Bill Reifsteck 
hi biz 
L.A.N. WYESAWAND? IMY saw no evidence of side ettects and 
added that the parents' "fear of 
chemotherapy ... is not supported 
by the evidence of the case." 
"We are disappointed," said 
Mrs. Green. "The worst kind of 
side effect is internal damage. You 
can't see that." Green also said his 
sonshows ill effects. "He's got a 
pretty bad cold," Green said, 
"because the treatment has broken 
down his defenses." 
Last November, while Chad was 
1·n remission from his disease his
' 

parents stopped the treatments. They said they wanted to put him, instead, on a special diet. The hospital went to court to force them to continue chemother­
apy. Under interim court orders, the Greens have been taking Chad almost daily since February from Scituate, 20 miles south of Boston, to the hospital for chemotherapy. They were with him there Tuesday morning when the decision was disclosed. 
Massachusetts General said that before his treatment was stopped Chad had a 50 percent chance of 
being cured of leukemia within five years if chemotherapy continued. "Even though his parents stopped treatment for several months,'' the hospital said, "Chad's chance for these excellent results, although reduced, remain significant." 
The ruling leaves the child in his parents' custody but makes the state Department of Public Welfare his legal guardian for the purpose of seeing that they comply with the order. 
A Special Presentation 
Commemoratingthe SOOth Anniversary of Thomas More's Birth 
a man for all 





seasons 

by Robert Bolt 

enter the plant on the eastside of 
this central Indiana community of 
14,000. 

A tight ring of Pinkerton guards 
was reported watching the printing 
area. 

The only persons to see the book 
besides Donnelley workers and 
Grossett & Dunlap editors are 
representatives of the New. Y_ork 
Times, which has bought senahza­
tion rights to Nixon's memoirs, 
Ross said. 

"Previous experience in the 
industry has set the environment 
for the security on producing the 
book. We have hired additional 
security personel and we are 
watching every step of production 
carefully," said Bob Wendell, the 
Crawfordsville plant manager. 

"We expect efforts to get the 
book. We don't think it will come 
from inside the plant, because we 
believe Donnelley employees are 
loyal to their company," he said. 


Senate approv~s second treaty 

[continued from page 1] and Abourezk. All three met with Carte.r on Monday or early yesterday with the president appealing to them to support the pact. · Hayakawa said last week he would vote against the second pact unless Carter made some major conces­sions in other areas of foreign policy. Abourezk said he would vote no unless the president reversed his stand in favor of deregulating natural gas prices. But after meeting with Carter at the White House early yesterday, there were hints that he might vote for it after all. 
April 20 
21 


and 22 8:00PM 
(Please note location chan e) 
~ND 


The Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
SMC

All seats $2.50 ($2.00 students) Reservations: 284-417 6 

THEATRE 

r
THE STUDENT PLAYER:~ AND YOUR STUDENT UNION· 
PRESENT 


A NEIL SIMON COMEDY 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief 
The Observer Is published Mon­



''COME BLOW 
dey through Frldey except during exem end vacation periods. Tt)e 

Steve Odland Managing Editor 
John Calcutt Executive Editor 
Observer Is published by the 
students of Notre Deme end Selnt

Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 


YOUR HORN!''
Mery's College. Subscriptions

Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
mey be purchesed for S20 per year

Phil Cackley Copy Editor 
(S 10 per semester) from The 

APRIL 8:00P.M.
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre

Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
Deme, tndlene 46556. Second

Ann Cales News Editor 
20, 21, 28, 29 $1.00
cteu postege peld, Notre Deme,

Mike Lewis News Editor 
tndlene, 4U56. 
. The Observer Is e member of the Auocteted Prell. All repro­

Diane Wilson News Editor 
Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
duction rights ere reserved. 

l IN THE NAZf)
I

Bryan Crulev Features Editor 

.. L-------------------~~ "I PtGI.n:. .•.....''(.' 'l.'' '''\' • , -) ' ' 
1

...•:t\',"."'..t',;*.tw:"~··,·-.... '. ·-----·---------. ·-•. ----~---·~ ~;. j • •>i a. ") • \..t.. •• · #' ;,·. ·_.(! !,'c~ ).... 1 .wrtlt '~Hl:t 1;:1. 'o.-;;,: 
r-------------------------------------------------------------~--~-----­
Wednesday, April19, 1978 the observer _a 
Badin women share weekt!nd 
with inner-city eighth graders 
by Brandy Andrasak 
The Badin "Weekend of Caring and Sharing" was a great success, according to Sr. Verene Girm­scheid, Badin Hall rectress. She commented, ''It was far better than expected; the Badin women's in­
volvement was excellent.'' 
The purpose of the weekend, Girmscheid said was for inner-city eighth graders "to get to know each other on a different level and to discuss and share with each other outside of the classroom." "The weekend also provided an awareness for the Notre Dame students of those who have less," she continued. 
In discussing how the eighth graders reacted to the opportunity, Girmscheid commented, "The girls were excited about coming. They were frightened at first about rooming with a stranger. but when they met their roomates the fright was immediately alleviated. They were happy that a stranger could care for them. Two girls opened up more in the discussion groups than was expected." According to her, the credit for this goes to the discussion leaders: Mary Ann Kay, Jean Sculati, and Marianne Mur­phy. 
The feeling in the hall, Girm­scheid said, was enthusiastic. Plans for a similar weekend would ''depend on how the students in the hall felt." Girmscheid stated, "Many of the girls that partici­pated thought it was a great idea and that it was a good thing to consider for the future." 
The Badin women held a sur­prise party for their eighth grade guests Friday night in Walsh Hall basement. Among the guests were James Roemer, dean of students, Fr. Don McNeill, director of the Center for Experiential Learning, Sr. Kathleen Rossman, rectress of 
Walsh  hall,  and  several  ND  
athletes.  
Roemer  commented,  "]  think  

that the kind of service the students provided was truly remarkable. I have a great appreciation for the kind of interest the students have shown in others and for the Notre Dame hospitality they've express­ed to others. 
Roemer expressed special ap­preciation to Girrnscheid saying, "Sr. Verene is one of the great Franciscans we are fortunate to have with us. I appreciate her taking the time from all that she's involved in to organize the students to participate in such worthwhile activities.'' 
Mentioning the athletes who dedicated their time to the week­end, Roemer stated, "The ND ath­letes were very generous and very good to the young people. They were super ice breakers. It was tough to do, but they just took the girls' hands and said 'Come on, let's dance." 
''They broke barriers and made 
the girls relax. This showed what 
kind of people they are," he added. 
Roemer said, "It seemed to be a 
remarkable weekend for the girls, 
but the ND students also learned 

from it. It was good for all 
involved." 

McNeill also commented on the appearance made by the ND ath­letes saying, "their attitude was impressive. They entered into the festivities in an enjoyable way, dancing and talking with the girls." 
McNeil continued to say, "I'm 
impressed with the women rectors 
at Notre Dame. They open such 
possibilities for the students." 

McNeill observed, "Experienc­ing the singing and spontaneity of the black community made me realize our need to experience more of this culture. We need to share more with minority students to bring this dimension to our lives. This weekend of reaching out could be seen as a beginning. 
Rossman stated, "I was most impressed with the Badin women's cooperation and, gentleness. To see one person ca~ing for another--! consider it personally challenging and as a chanc~ to grow, too." 
The response from the eighth graders was enthusiastic. Some of their comments included: "It is really undescribable how those 

Panama cerebrates signing 
PANAMA CITY [AP] • Thou­sands of jubilant Panamanians rushed into the streets last night cheering ratification of the final Panama Canal treaty by the U.S. Senate. 
Most of Panama's 1.8 million citizens had huddled around. radios listening to the live roll call vote from Washington and broke into shouts of happiness when the necessary 67th "yes" vote was cast. 
Bands that had gathered in the Cinco de Mayo Plaza broke into Caribbean salsa music. 
Hundreds of Panamanians were in the plaza with bottles of liquor to toast the pact. 
"It's . a big drunken street party," said one celebrant. 
Firecrackers popped across the city, and radio stations began playing the Panamanian national anthem when the vote was announced. 
Some clapped or cheered, others shook hands. There were a few tears. 
"I am very proud. I knew it was going to pass," ~aid one elderly man. 
Truckloads of national guards­men, Panama's army, cordoned off Santa Anna Park in the downtown area where about 200 students had gathered to protest the treaties, claiming they gave too much "to the Yankees." 
ABC News correspondent Bar­bara Walters reported she was at the home of Panamanian leader Omar Torrijos where he and other Panamanian officials were listening intently to the Senate vote., 
'She said when the treaty was approved he got up and hugged those around him. He told her he had been still1 worried up to the moment the result was final but now he was 'jcalm and happy." 
Broad~ast bandits liven cjp television. 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. [AP-Federal officials are trying to locate the "broadcas.t bandits" who turned the usually dormant Chann~l 7 in Syracuse j into a showcase for programs ranging from Oscar­winning !films to "Deep Throat" over the. weekend. 
"We're very definitely interes­ted in who's been broadcasting the stuff," said John Theimer, director of the Federal Communications Commission office in Buffalo. Theimer was in Syracuse on another matter Monday. . 
The unlicensed station reachdl viewers Saturday and Sunday fn downtown Syracuse and sectioqs of t~e surrounding Syracuse Un~­verslty campus. 
Films featured included "Rocky," "One fl¢w Over the Cuckoo's Nest," segments of "Star Trek" and "Deep Throat." 
The station, calling itself • 'Lucky 7," had a live announcer who viewers said was wearing a gas mask and a noose around his neck. He said he hoped viewers enjoyell the programming and promised more entertainment in coming 
weekends. Television engineers here said an electronics buff with relatively\
simple equipment could accomp­lish the programming on the vacant' channel. The crime calls for a 
possible maximum sentence of one 
year in prison and a $10,000 fine. 


girls and boys contributed their time to us young black girls from an inner city school. Words cannot substitute (for) the warmth they 
gave to us." 
''The bad part I hated was the part when we said goodbye. I didn't want to. It was just a sad moment for me." 
"Norma motivated me to keep going even if I have trouble on the way." 
"The girls were so nice to us and showed us many of (the) thing(s) we have never seen before in our lives and probably would (never) have seen if it was not for Miss O'Brian and Sr.. Janet and Sr. Verene and many more." 
The girls' letters indicated that they enjoyed all aspects of the weekend, especially the Friday night party, the discussion groups, the tours of the campus, rooming with the Badin women and sharing a new experience with each other 
and "caring strangers." A statue cries in the rain. [photo by Bill Reifstek] 



Supreme Court reverses ruling,bars release of Watergate tapes 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The Su­preme Court yesterday barred pub­lic release of the 30 White House tape recordings . played at the Watergate cover-up trial of aides to former President Richard M. Nixon. 
The court's 5-4 decision reversed a 1976 ruling by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that would have made the tapes available to the commercial television networks, public television and. a recording company planning to sell copies of the tapes for home use. 
"Considering all the circum­stances of this concededly singular case, we hold that the common-law right of access to judicial records does not authorize release of the tapes in question," Justice Lewis 
F. Powell Jr. vvrote for the court's majority. 
The court's n11ing is a major legal victory for Nixon, who persistently challenged the tapes' release as an 
. invasion of his privacy. 
Joining Powell's opinion were Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justices Harry A. Blackmun, William H. Rehnquist and Potter Stewart. 
All but Stewart were ap11ointed to the nation's highest court by Nixon. i 
Dissenting were Justices Thur­good Marshall, William-J. Brennan . Jr., John Paul Stevens :and Bryon 
R. White. 
"Needless t(l say, we~re gratified with the decision," said William H. Jeffress Jr., who argued the case for Nixon before the Supreme Court. 
Transcripts of the' tapes were highly publicized during the 1974 trial of form,~r Attorney General John Mitchell and ex-White House aides H.R. Haldeman and John vice, the RAdio-Television News Directors Association and Warner Communications. 
The networds, public television and the news directors group sought to air portions of the tapes while Warner wanted to reproduce them for sale as records and tape cassettes. 
Nixon argued that the tapes' release would invade his privacy and cause him great embarrass­ment. 
In arguing before the justices last October, Jeffress said the former president would suffer "mental 
were widely quoted in part or in their entirety in newspapers and other publications.{ 
But except for the 12-member jury and those persons who sat through all or portions of the trial, the public has never heard the actual voices of Nixon and his aides discussing the scandal that forced him from office. 
Filing suit in 1976 to have the tapes releast:d were ABC. CBS, NBC, the Public Broadcasting Ser­
r-------------­SUMMER STUDY IN NEW YORK CITY: Colurrbia Uni­versi1y Offers o.~er 350 under­grcdual!, grcdua~ and pro.fessional school courses. Wri~ for bulletin:Surnrrl:!r 
Sessions, Colurrbla Universi 102c Low. Ubrary, N.Y, N.Y. 10027 
anguish" if the tapes were not kept from "every disc jockey, every television performer...to be played relentlessly." 
Nixon's attorneys argued that home sales of 22 hours' worth of White House conversations would lead to their being "played at cocktail parties and in satiric productions." 
But in arguing for Warner Com­munications, lawyer Edward Ben­nett Williams had told the court: "I don't know of any common Jaw right not to be embarrassed by one's inculpatory words." 


soon 

' The Knights 
' 


Only 5 minutes from campus 277-1691
Tues. & Wed. 8 :30;6 :30 
272-0312

Thurs. & Fri. , 8 :30-8 :30 
54533 Terrace Lane 
Sat. . 8:30-5.:30 
Ehrlichman. All 30 transcripts w .....MNWW"'-MNW\1"'-MNWW.....MNWWMMWWY.MWWW....., 
Judicial (joo-dish-al) Co-ordinator (ko-or-da-nat-tar) 
1. one who is knowledgable about 
the University Rules and Regulations and is anxious to preserve student rights 
2. one who is available to answer 
your questions ... Please Call: Jayne Rizzo 7960 or Kevin Mescall 1181 
S.G. Judicial Office 6413 
Wednesday, April19, 1978
4 
the observer 


' 
' ~ 
283-1144 

.•• •• ·••• • 
• 
e• Special 10% Discount •e 
: On All Merchandise To Notre Dame : • & Saint Marr 's Students... • 
·······~··············~ 
mUSICAL EVEnT ot theYEAR 

ALL RADUATING STUDENTS 
Nleasurements will be taken for 
CAPS 
and 
GOWNS 
Wednesday 
April19 
and 
ThursdayApril 20 
between 9:00-4:00 
at the 


Prof. Ronald Paulson from Yale is this year's Ward-Phillips lecturer in English. Paulson will continue his series on 11Popular and Polite Art in the Age of Hogarth and Fielding" today and tomorrow at 4:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Everyone is ~couraged to attend. [photo by Maureen Flynn) 
' ·...... ..• .. .'· ·.. .. '· ... 
' ·,\ 


People pyramids 
Quick--what's the ancient art and a new event for Frivolous Friday? Building pyramids! 
Teams of unlimited numbers can try to build pyramids rivaling those of the ancient Egyptians, but using people instead of bricks. The teams can register for the An Tostal People Pyramids by calling 1724. 
Treasure hunt 
Attention ND-SMC super sleuths! Come and prove yourself at the An Tostal Treasure Hunt on Frivolous Friday. Anyone can participate: simply pick up a clue sheet at 1:30 p.m. on South Quad on Frivolous Friday. Follow the clues, find the hidden treasure, and you win it. 
Chariot race 
The field for the An Tostal Ben Hur Chariot Race will be limited 20 teams. Pre-registration for this event is required. To sign up, call John Callaway at 8791 or Chris Digan at 8850. 
Daisysale 
For that special person you've been admiring, send him or her An Tostal daisies. They're on sale today through Wednesday, April26, in all the dining halls. The daisies will be delivered to both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Priced at $1 a bunch, they're guaranteed to win hearts. 
Decathlon 
The An Tostal Decathlon will be the true test of the well-rounded 
Notre Dame athlete. The Decathlon's ten events, designed to test 
strength, skill, and speed, will! include a 100-yard swim, a 100-yard 
dash, a softball throw, a frisbee toss, 30 free throws, rope climbing, 
a one-mile run, one rack of billiards, one minute of sit-ups, and an 
obstacle course. 
Five of these events will be held on Frivolous Friday and five will be on Sunny Saturday. If you're athlete enough, call Ted Howard at 3209 or 3211 and register for the Decathlon. Registration will end at midnight on Tuesday. 
Lookingfor Mr. Goodbar 
Have you got a sweet tooth? Are you cool, cunning, and adventurous? Ifyou answered "YES!" to these questions, then you are a prime candidate for the An Tostal Looking for Mr. Goodbar Contest. 
This contest will pit Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's best detectives against each other in a search for a Mr. Goodbar candy bar hidden somewhere on the ND or SMC campus. The contest will begin on Monday and one clue will be p(inted each day in the An Tostal section of The Observer to aid in your search. ' 
If you find the candy bar, submit your name and the location of the Mr. Goodbar to the Ombudsman. One name will be drawn from all correct entries submitted and the winner of the drawing will receive dinner for two. 
For more information, call Maryanne Wissel at 8052 or Pete Longo at 1763. 
NEW YORK[AP]-The 3,000 tra­ders, clerks, and specialists crowd­ing the floor of the New York Stock Exchange got a breather yesterday when the furious pace of trading in two orevious days slacked off a bit. 
On Monday, a record 63.5 mil­lion shares of stock had changed hands. The total for Friday and Monday was more than 110 million shares a respectable total for an entire week of normal activitv. 
Yesterday, said analyst Newton Zinder of E.F. Hutton, traders appeared to be "digesting" the gains. ·· • 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks had risen more than 44 points from Thursday through the close on Monday. U fell back 6.85 points to close alt 
803.27 Tuesday. Volume was 38.95 million shares. 
Even with that slower pace, yesterday was a rough day for Arthur deCordova, the floor spe· cialist responsible for trades in IBM one of the blue chip and glamor stocks that are the favorites of the institutional investors whom analysts say are the force behind th'e rally._ 
deCordova, surrounded by a whirl of·seven floor brokers waving orders, spoke a language of eighths, quarters and halves, and had no time to comment on what was happening. 
But Ronald Chandler, a clerk for LaBranche & co., was happy to be leaving the floor to take ·his first 
Wednesday, April19, 1978 
the observer 
5 

Former Italian Premier Moro 'executed' by Red Brigades 
CORVAKO*Italy [AP]·A message saying kidnapped former Premier Aldo Moro had been "executed" sent hundreds of police and frog­men yesterday to look for the body at a remote, icy lake in the central Italian mountains. 
The message, bearing the signa­ture of the Red Brigades guerrillas, said Moro's body had been dumped into the shallow waters of Lake Duchessa, a trout fisherman's haven 72 miles northeast of Rome. 
The search of the lake was suspended at dusk after squads of frogmen, soldiers and police did not find a body, but later a new search began at an abandoned stone quarry six mih:s away. 
floodlights were set up at the quarry that had· filled with water from recent rainstorms. Police said they had received reports that two persons had been seen throwing a large bundle into the quarry a few days ago. They reported a fence between the quarry and a highway had been cut and there were tracks of automobile tires. 
The search of Duchessa Lake is to resume today. 
Officials said .the Red Brigades signature appeared to be genuine, but itsa contents mav have been a ruse to divert the attention of police who have been staging nation-wide search operations for Moro. The message also threatened other politicians. 
Rome police said that earlier in the day, they made their first break in the case by finding an apartment hideout filled with arms, ammuni­tion and messages signed by the Brigades. The 61-year-old Moro was kidnapped and his five body­guards were killed by Red Brigades terrorists in a Rome street ambush March 16. 
The failure to find any trace of Moro "might lead us to think that no body or anything like a body has been thrown into the lake," one searcher told Rome headquarters of Moro's Christian Democratic Party. 
Police said they were checking reports from local residents of a helicopter heard hovering over the area early yesterday morning and of a young woman motorcyclist who 
Stock Market pace slackens 
cigarette break since Friday. "When these things happen, 
"Everybody's kept up with the they often seem to come for no pace; you've got no choice. These reason at all," said Alan C. Poole are high-spirited people and you of Laidlaw, Adams & Peck. "Then can't beat them down," he said. once they start, they grow on 
Analysts were reluctant to read a themselves." long-term trend into a rally so Brokers agreed a combination of young. But Raymond F. DeVoe Jr. factors had prompted institutions of Loeb Rhoades, Hornblower & such as pension funds, insurance 
Co. reported that at a tavern in the compar.ies and mutual funds to put
financial district Monday night, a little of their cash reserves into 
"Theywerefourorfivedeepatthe stocks. The reserves,. by all bar, and people you barely knew aecvceou~ntsv,eawres.re at their heaviest 
couldn't wait to buy you a drink." 1 11 
----------------------------------· 
SUMMER STORA.GE
special

rates Master Mini-Warehouses 
close to campus on U.S. 31 north 1 block north of Shula's Located at 2034 U.S. 31 north stateline 
683-1959 Open 7 Days 684-6431 
stopped in this village Monday to ask directions to the lake. 
The ruling Christian Democrats issued a statement saying Moro's fate was in "absolute uncertainty," but that the party believed ''the thin ray of hope for the life of its 
party president is not completely used up.'' 
Search parties were dispatched by heli_c:opter to the lake, in a hollow of theApennineMountains three miles from Corvaro village, after the Rome newspaper II Messagaro received a message bearing the signature of the Red Brigades. 
The terrorists announced three days ago that Moro had been convicted in a "people's trial" and sentenced to die. 
Yesterday's message said: "We inform you of the execution of Christian Democrat President Aldo Moro, by suicide. We shall allow you to recover his body, giving you the exact location where it is. The body of Aldo Moro is submerged in the muddy waters...of the Lake Duchessa... '' 
The reference to "suicide" seemed to mock West Germany's announcement last fall that three jailed terrorists of the Baader­Meinhof urban gang committed "suicide" in their cells near Stutt­gart. Leftists across Europe de­monstrated and bombed West German installations, claiming the trio had been murdered by authori­ties. 
Police and colleagues of Moro said the new message, delivered the . same way as others from the Red Brigades since the kidnapping, doubtless was authentic. But they said it may have been intended as a diversionary tactic or a cruel psy­chological joke. 
The Italian news agency ANSA also noted that yesterday was the 30th anniversary of the ichristian 1 Democrats' rise to national leader­ship and said: "Perhaps the Red Brigades want to solemnize this ... by heightening tension." 
Brothel study receives Proxmire's 'fleece' award 
WASHINGTON [AP]-A federally financed study of a Peruvian bro­thel is the winner of Sen. William Proxmire's monthly Golden Fleece Award. 
Proxmire, D-Wis., described the National Institute for Me~tial Health grant of $97,000 as a "riciculous ... waste of the tax­payers' money." 
However, a University of Wash­ington sociologist who received the grant for the 18-month study in Peru said he was "flattered" by Proxmire's award. 
"I think the stupid awards boom­erang on Senator Proxmire," said the sociologist, Dr. Pierre L. van der Berghe. "In academic circles the Golden Fleece award is the next best thing to a Pulitzer'' prize. Proxmire, in a statement accom­panying the award, said he had nothing against the professor doing the research but that he objected to the taxpayers funding the project. 
At the mental health agency, 
spokeswomen Joyce Lazar said the 
organization did not know the grant 
was going for the study of a 
brothel. 

She also said van der Berghe was 
three years late in f ing a final 
report on his research, which was 
concluded in December 1973. She added that the prdessor had 
refused to give the government 
copies of all articles and books 
.published as a result of the 
research. 
Bob Hayes indicted for drugs 
DALLAS [AP] • Olympic gold 
medalist and former Dallas cow­
boys all-pro receiver Bob Hayes, 
once termed "the world's fastest 
human," has been indicted by a 
Dallas County grand jury on three 
drug charges. 
Hayes was indicted Monday for 
two counts alleging delivery of 
cocaine and one count alleging 
delivery of Quaalude. 
Officers said the arrest of Hayes 
at his Dallas apartment at 3 a.m. on 
April 6 culminated a three-month 
undercover investigation into 
alleged drug trafficking in the 
north Dallas suburb of Addison. 
Agents from the district attor­
ney's office assi§J;ed Addison police 
in making the arrest. 
Hayes, who won the 1964 Olym­
pic 100-meter dash in a then 
world-record time, was released on 
bonds totaling $60,000 about six 
hours after his arrest. 
If convicted on the CQCaine 
charges, Hayes could receive life in 
prison. The charge of delivering 
Quaalude, a sedative and hypnotic 
agent, carries a maximum prison 
term of 10 years. 
Hayes played for the National 
Football League Cowboys from 
1965-7 4 and still holds the team's 
career record of 76 touchdowns. 
He is the team's all-time leading . receiver with 365 receptions. 

~------------------------., 
I 

THE NEW SPECIALS 1 1 
presented by the
11 
I I 

I DLIBRARYD
I I I 
I

I I Won (da~e) 14oz. Draft ll I I Special 50$ I Largest Draft in Town
I I II· 7 -midnight I 
I Thursday 7&7 Special 50$ 1I 1-10
ISpecials on all Carry Outs 
-... ·-~~·---·~··-··-······-·~~'~·.~"·•···-~;.,·_ ...........--....~--·-·-! 
• ­
' 
Wednesday, April19, 1978
6 

the observer 
r 
ALL R/6HT -EVERYBODY WE'RE SF/ZING THE OLD HIT TH£ DIRT!! FIELDHOUSE IN THE NAME OF Til£ NEW UfiLITAAIAN LIBERAftON LEAGUE!~ 
-----~-:::. 
~...:....:::=~~=o~--=:-==:...._....t....;.:......._t 
K ofC elects officers 
Y csterday, the Knights of Co­Ryan of Stanford Hall will preside 
lumbus held their annual elections as Advocate for the next year. 
Halsema as dorm chairman.

and all ten posts have been filled by The new Warden is Steve Lauret­The Notre Dame Judo Club will be
In other business, Jerome Per­

new office holders. ti and his Inside and Outside hosting a self-defense presentation
kins, a candidate for Sheriff of St. 

Reigning as the Grand Knight is Guards are Joe Murphy and Cris today at 6:30 in the ACC wrestling
Joseph County, addressed the

Bob Bellissimo, a junior pre-med McNulty respectively. pit, behind the basketball court.
membership.

major. His assistant will be Tom The three year post of Trustee Sgt. Burris of the South Bend Leibowitz who has been elected to has gone to senior Bill Albam who Police Department will explain the the office of Deputy Grand Knight. will continue to serve while doing practical aspects of self defense The Chancellor is Tom Pepke, graduate work here at the Univer­More1s birthday and attack evasion. 
while  the  new  recorder  is  Mark  sity.  
Rigotti.  The newly elected officials will  
Taking over in the position of treasurer is Tom Hubbard. John  assume offices on May 2.  ,  

---------------------------• 
STUDENT UNION SERVICES COMMISSION AND THE OBSERVER PRESENT THE FIRST 
Year End 
• 

Alchohol week termed 'success' 
Alcohol Awareness Week. which ran from April to to April 15, was termed "a success" by Peggy Rodgers, a member of the organ­izing committee. Rodgers ex­plained that the purpose of the week was "not to be anti-alcohol, but to educate students as to the effects of alcohol, and to promote responsible use of it.'' 
The program, which was initi­ated by Kathleen Rice, director of student affairs at Saint Mary's and sponsored by both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame student govern­ments, was the largest coordinated attempt at a campus-wide cam­paign to promote responsible drinking. 
In addition to lectures and films the week's activities included wine tasting sessions, beer making demonstrations and Happy Hours. There was also various presenta­tions which focused on the effects of alcohol use on the individual and society, such as "Values Clarifica­tion," and "Success and Alcohol." 
Mary Ann Daley, another mem­ber of the organizing committee, said that attendance for a majority of the events was "better than expected." She expressed hope that this program would be "a first step toward an overall positive approach to the subject of alcohol." 

Dal~y said the good turnout and the enthusiastic response of those who attended the various events proved that, "there is an interest and a need for something like this." She added, "We just wanted to give people some food for thought.'' 
''This program," she continued; "is not condemning alcohol but rather promoting its reponsible use." 
Campus Briefs 
professor of law, and Stanley
Republican club Hauerwas, associate professor of theology, tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Law School Lounge. Walter R.
elects officers 
Davis, professor of English, will discuss "More as Literary Artist"The Notre Dame College Repub­at 3 p.m. Friday, followed by alican Club held its annual elections discussion of "More's Role inyesterday evening. William J. 
History" by Fr. Marvin R. O'Con­Kerr, a first year MBA student, nell, professor-chairman of thewas elected chairman. Also chosen 
history department. 
were junior Kevin Richardson for vice-chairman, and sophomore Mike Gilroy for treasurer. Ap­
Judo club holds 

pointments included Mike Gilroy as executive director, Eric Diamond as campaign coordinator and Marc self-defense class 
On Tuesday at 6:30 in the pit, the 

The Law School of the University club will compete in a judo tourna­of Notre Dame will observe the ment against members of the South SOOth anniversary of the birth of St. Bend YMCA Judo Club. Students Thomas More, noted English jurist are invited free of charge to both and former Lord Chancellor in the events. Court of King Henry VII, with three major lectures and three perfor­mances of the dramatic production, 
Pre-Law Society changes officers 
The Pre-Law Society recently announced new officers for the 1978-79 school year. They are Jeff Kohler, president; Dave Carrier and Dave Onuscheck, vice-presi­dent newsletter editors; Meg Hac­kett, vice-president publicity man­ager; and Kathy Knue, secretary treasurer. All the new officers will be seniors in the upcoming school year. 
The outgoing officers, Chris DeDiana, Vince Barbera, Steve Rossiter, John Dallacqua, and Mike Kelly, wish to thank all the hall captains and members who have contributed to a successful year. 
Sophs accepting applications 
SophomorP Class Officers are now accepting applications for the Sophomore Advisory Council and 
"A Man for All Seasons." The observance will begin tomorrow tee. A one page resume of yourMacDonald named the new Public Relations Commit­
and continue through Saturday. 

"More as Lawyer and Theolo­auxl.,,.ary bl"shop gian" will be the topic for a dual presentation by Thomas L. Shaffer,_ Fr. James H. MacDonald, a 
graduate student at Notre Dame 
from 1946-49, has been named 
auxiliary bishop,of the diocese of 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, by 
Pope Paul VI, according to Fr. 
Thomas 0. Barosse, superior gen­
eral of the Congregation of Holy 
Cross in Rome, Italy. 
He was ordained a bishop yester­day in the Cathedral of Christ the King, Hamilton, Ontario. 
MacDonald, 53, a native of Cap-Breton, Nova Scotia, did un­dergraduate work at the University of Saint Joseph in New Brunswick before coming to Notre Dame in 1946. He was ordained a Holy Cross priest in Woodstock, On­tario, Canada, in 1953. He plans to be at Notre Dame on May 10 to celebrate the 25th anniversary of that that occasion with his ordin­ation classmates from the United States. 
In Canada MacDonald has been director of vocations for the Holy Cross Fathers and director of their house of studies. Recently he served as pastor of St. Michael's parish in Waterloo, Ontario. 
Alliance meeting tonight·. 
There will be a meeting for all Amerasian Alliance members to­night at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune seating area. Discussion will include the discontinuation of Chi­nese language at Notre Dame. Also ·on the agenda are the new offices and plans for the coming year. Any interested student may attend. For more information, call Craig at 8693 or Therese at 4-1-4692. 

qualifications, goals, and ideas for 
the position desired may be sub­
mitted to the Student Activities 
Office located on the first floor of 
LaFortune. The deadline for 
applications is Friday at 5:00 pm. 
The Advisory Council will be 
composed of one representative from each hall and off-campus, with the exception of the towers which will have two members each. For more information contact Jim . Veraldi (8941), Maureen McKenna 
(7827), Aaron Bell (3003), or 
Debbie Smith (1284). 

Sinnott to discuss Korean rights 
Tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in Room 
1201 of the Memorial Library, Fr. 
James Sinnott, a former missionary 
to South Korea, will discuss the 
present human rights situation in 
South Korea. Sinnott's presenta­
tion is entitled "Human Rights in 
South Korea." 

Father Sinnott is co-director of the 
North American coalition for Hu­
man Rights in Korea and also 
works with Clergy and Laity Con­
cerned out of Washington, D.C. 
His presentation is being spon­
sored by the Notre Dame-South 
Bend chapter of Amnesty Inter­
national and by the Institute for 
International Studies at Notre 
Dame. 

Sinnott, a member of the Mary­
knoll order, was a·medical mission­
ary in South Korea for 15 years 
before he was expelled from that 
country in 1975 by the government 
of President Chung Hee Park. 

Sinnott's expulsion came as a 
result of his activities in the South 
Korean human rights struggle. He 
spoke out against government re­
pression and assisted the families 
of eight Koreans who were exe­
cuted for political reasons by the 
Park government. 

Classified Paper ak Advertisements can be for: lrPit~jammerCouches Parties Chairs Rides ·CREATIVE Rugs Books HAIR DESIGN Refrigerators FORFinal Good-byes THE SEXES RElAXINGANYTHING ELSE YOU CAN THINK OF ATMOSPHERE PRICES: 15 Words or less: $.50 . F'IU:E J:IAIR ANALYSIS plus .25 for Every Additional 5 Words RK RETAB.. CENTER ads will be sold April 19, 20, 21 1637 LWW So. bend 232-6622during Dinner Appt. enly.North ~ South Dining Halls  
You Can't Buy America. America: The Datsun l ill · -----­,~ Student Travel Guide It's FREE FROM: Student Union ...,.,._NiftJoumty:AA~to~UII ~~':""'A.I~~'i',."Y•"~:""•f--Yow._1  

-----------------------------------~~--------~--------------------------~-----------.-.----------------------------­
Wednesday, April19, 1978 
the observer 
7 

Classified Ads 
EIJR~PE 
ll..,., JJ. '-}'-n'-mlJ 
lltdn 12 ldrt: 
'I • "'"''' 
( 800) 325-486 7 . 

.~,.or,,,_,. :! 0' '>f"f> yOlH lr,tvf'l ..tQt•t"•• 
· " •· . @ Un;Yravel Charters • 
NOTICES 

Bus service to Chicago every Friday. Buses leave the circle at 6:05. For tickets and Info call Shep 8330. 
Will do typing. Neat. Accurate. Call: 287-5162. 
N886 1168 tor one lOVely girl trolft" Pittsburgh and back An Tostal Weekend. She can drive, she can pay, and she Is good company! Call 6734. 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed .....etc. IBM selectric II. Linda's Letters, 287-4971. 
FLANNER RECORDS INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE: All $7.98 lp's in stock, only $$4.97. All $6.98 lp's only $4.39. All double albums specially priced. Flanner Records, 322. Flanner. Ph 2741. Hours. M-Th, 4-5, 6.30-8. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Slectrics. 85 cents per page, minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the best." 
Connecticut baggage truck to Hartford and New Haven areas. Call Jim 3267 or Kevin 3361 for information. 
LOST AND FOUND 

FOUND: Girls watch at the Library circle. Call 272-5883 to identify. 
LOST: Gold bracelet at Cinnabar's on junior formal last saturday night. $25 reward. Call Roseanne at 4-1-4719. 
LOST: One pair of palstic frame glasses in brown case. Call John 8642. 
LOST: Blue ND jacket at Nickles. Reward. Name in jacket. 
WANTED 

I'd like to purchase a compact refrigera­tor at the end of the year. Call Tim at 1724. Thanks! 
Waitresses needed-full or part time for local night club. Must be 21. Looking especially for girls staying here for the summer. Good pay! Apply at Vegatable Buddies. 
New restaurant needs a waitress and kitchen help, but experience Is not necessary (tough helpful). Apply in person after 1 pm to Aunt Mike ' s breakfast barn. 51277 US 31 N, one block north of Auten Rd, South Bend. Ask for Aunt Mike. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh. LV Friday 2:15. Return Monday Eve. One way or both ways. Call Steve 288-D088. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer and year round in Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor­mation -Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkely Calif., 94704. 
Ride needed to DC area after Senior Formal. Will share driving and $. Call 272-5281. 
Need ride: To Purdue this Friday. Back Suhday. Brian 3383. 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS­Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 301-654-3770 or send two comr.lete resumes and two pictures to : Co . R. Reade., W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Ave., Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
Need ride to ISU (Normal) April 21. Call Mike 3266. 
FOR SALE 

Stereo equipment major brand discounts. 
On fully guaranteed factory sealed audio video eqpt. Elliot Enterprises, Park CQurt, Buchanon Mich. 40107. Call Niles toll free 683-D121. 
Used golf balls like new, $20 per 100 and other prices. Call 272-0783. 
FULL COLOR COTION BOWL AND USC FOOTBALL: UCLA KENTUCKY AND MARYLAND BASKETBALL PICTURES FOR SALE. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED MATERIAL AT A LOW PRICE. CALL DOUG AT 8982 OR STOP BY 318 ZAHM. 
A girl's AMC roadmater bicycle in good condition. Best offer. Call 4-1-4001. 
Technics turntable -Model 1400M K2 professional series, direct drive. Mint condition-only two weeks old. Need money! Call Mark 233-5256. 
LAST OFFER: Classic ovation guitar with naw hard case. Perfect condition. $225. Call Gena at 1694. 
'71 M G Bt sacrifice-288-96'14 aft 5. 
FOR RENT 

Fine house In a good neighborhood (Portage and Angela area... Reasonable rates for 4-5-or 6 students. Contact Joe Gatto, 234-6688. 
Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus, call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Two completely furnished houses for rent this summer. A couple of blocks from campus. Safe neighborhood. One four bedroom and one six bed room. Appx. $100 a month. 277-3604. 
One bedroom apartment to sublet for summer. Good location. Security. Good terms. Cal 288-7258. 
PERSONALS 

Surprise! Pat Gunning can't read! 
To the five amoebas: 
We guarantee you that your endoplasmic reticulum will be removed very painfully in combat. Bookstore powerhouses, 
Boo-Boo and the Yogis 

Dear S M C class of '78..... Have aheart.... give us a break. 
Kelly Tripucka for UMOC -Send contri­butions to 221 B-P. 
Need ride to Cleveland April 21. Will share driving and expenses. Call Gabe 6814. 
Vote for the Alumni's favorite dog; Otto for UMOC. 
Overeaters anonymous is now on cam­pus! Call 289-6021 for time and place. 
Admirer; 
Congratulations on your acceptance into Baylor. Hope the distance won't affect the merger!! 
Banker 

Lavender,  
Congratulations  on  your  Baylor  
acceptance.  T. Hamel  

Hey all you fun loving McCandles Women. Make your hall the place to be on A13ril 24, Vote Blum and Bonte. 
McCandles Hall Officers 

Thanks to Lee Smolen whose mothering made abunch of derelicts into canoeists. Seen any trees lately? 
Today is Chris Policinki's birthday. If he asks you for a birthday kiss, remind him that he has agirlfriend in Rome! 
Roomies 

Lou, Here is your long awaited Personal. What next? Guess Who 
Class of '81 
"Communicate your spirit., Vote: Sweeney, Hili, Megargle, Dornbos. 
Diilionites-If you have a rude, tude, r any type of disgusting act we want yo. contact Mike Goonan for the no talent show this Friday nile. 
Stan and Tony 
How about making some more hot chocolate by U.S. 31? You bring the typewriter and we'll bring the chocolate. Love and Kisses-
All around! 
MIKE MEENAN, 

Just to let you know; I'm the one who falls asleep during my one o'clock this semester. 
G. 
Bulldozer, Here is your very own Personal. I guess you deserve it after six RBI's ! Love, Cary 
This Friday Night-Dillon No Talent Show-Courtyard between Dillion and Alumni. 

Wiretap law passed in Hawaii to heiiP curb organized cri.me 
HONOLULU [AP]-Hawaiian law enforcement officials hope a new wiretap law that makes it easier for them to eavesdrop on telephone calls will help curb what they see as the growing menace of organized crime in the 50th state. 
The statute, recently passed by the Legislature, must be signed within 60 days by Gov. George Ariyosbi, who has said he favors it. 
Current law allows electronic eavesdropping only with the con­sent of at least one party to be taped, or if federal officials. are involved. Hawaii Crime Commis­sion studies show that the FBI has used wiretaps only three times in the state. The new law permits state officials to seek court authori­zation on their own for secret wiretaps. 
The American Civil Liberties Union objects that the more flexible law would not help round up organized crime leaders and would infringe on constitutional rights to privacy. 
But Honolulu Police Capt. Harold Kawasali said "criminals make extensive use of wire and oral communications in their activities" and that intercepting such com­munications is an "indispensable aid to law enforcement and the administration of justice." 
connected with Hawaii's organized The new law comes at a time crjme."
when many Hawaiian officials are Deputy Honolulu Police Chiefincreasingly concerned about crime Eugene Fletcher has said two on the islands. Federal statistics underworld leaders known to policeshow that while serious crime are currently vying for control ofdropped 4 percent nationwide last illegal gambling operations in the year, Hawaii's rate climbed 2.7 
state.

percent. According to crime commission The crime commission in a director Hikaru Kerns, 24 other 
112-page report on extortion talked states allow court-ordered wire­of "a climate of fear in the taps, but only in New York and 
community which has been gener­New Jersey are they used exten­ated by publicity of the violence sively. 
Campaign reveals abuses; finds widespead graft,theft 
In Texas, an aide of <.Jov. Uolph 
[AP] -A federal and local Briscoe was found paying employ­campaign to root out fraud and ees of a department store he owned abuse in the federal public jobs with federal jobs money. the sons program is revealing cases of and wives of some Oklahoma political favoritism, kickbacks and politicians are allegedly on CET A mismanagement across the nation. payrolls. 
Investigators are finding that Last week Labor Secretary ray some of the $11.9 billion in public Marshall announced the formation 
jobs money that is supposed to of a permanent office of special provide useful skills and employ­investigations to hunt down "cor­ment to the disadvantaged is ruption, mismanagement and fi­instead being used for such things nancial abuses" in the depart­as teaching Islam to New York City ment's Comprehensive Employ­jobholders. ment and Training Art (CETA) jobs 
program. 
Targets of the first investigations announced by Marshall includes two states -Texas and Oklahoma ­and nine cities: Atlanta; Indianapo­lis; Gary, IN; New York City; Cass City, MI; Los Angeles; East St. Louis, IL; Washington, and Balti­more. 
Marshall said 17 other local governments were undergoing pre­liminary investigations, but de­clined to name them. How-ever, it is known that local and federal law agencies are investigating jobs programs abuses in Boston, New Jersey, and Westchester and Put­nam Counties, N.Y. 
One Labor Department official speculated that fraud and other abuses may be squandering $25 million to SSO million nationwide in public jobs money, but others contacted said it was impossible to guess the final figure. 
Federal investigators declined to specify what abuses 'they were looking into, but an Associated Press survey of the 11 local governments under active investi­gation turned up a variety of allegations. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East 
W L Pet. GB Phil 53 .625­
Chi 6 4 .600­
NY 
7 5 .583­
SLou 56 .455 11/lMont 4 5 .444 11/lPitt 3 7 .300 3 
West 
Cine 8 3 .727­LA 6 3 .667 1 SFran 6 3 .667 1 Hous 4 6 .400 3Vi SDieg 2 5 .286 4 Atla 1 7 .125 SV1 

AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
W L Pet. GB 
Detr 7 2 ,778­Bost 7 3 .700 lh Mil\\ 6 5 .545 2 
NY S 5 .500 2% Oev 3 5 .375 J'h Bait 4 7 .364 4 Toro 2 7 .222 S 
West 


----------,--------­
the observer Wednesday, April19, 1978 
Strapamasquon And His Combat Wombats awesome in Bookstore Basketball opener 
by Frank LaGrotta rebounds. Tripucka was also rebounding category with nine. Vehr and Dave Condeni dominated Kids by 17; The ·N.J. Team by 8; Sports Writer . credited with three slam-dunks, For the Hotshots, Bill Cuddy was the boards with seven rebounds The Ever-So-Butch Boys by 9; 
including one "awesome" ram that high-scorer with four while team­apiece. Skipper and His Chief Petting 
Everyone knows when it's knocked the paint off the back­mate Tim Huffman pulled in eight In the first game of the 1978 Officers by 16; and in overtime, No springtime at Notre Dame. The board. Pete Holohan hit five of ten caroms. tournament, the spectators saw Talent Ain't It by 2. birds start singing, the grass­shots and collected 10 caroms for In the game that drew the perhaps the best non-varsity
sprinklers start sprinkling, the sun the winners while Steve Simmnn, biggest crowd of the day, the athlete performance of the day as Today's action gets underway at starts shining and the Ironmen take with three points, was high scorer Jackson Five refused to let the Big Dan Short led the Irish Guards to a 4 p.m. at all three bookstore sites. to the basketball courts all over for the losers. Daddy Parrots out of their cage, (Bookstore courts, Lyons courts
21-5 win over Anita Bryant and the campus to fight it out "Bookstore Bill Laimbeer blocked six shots, and they sent the birds home with a Tropical Fruits. Short was on and Stepan courts.) This after­style." scored four points and grabbed 11 21-5 loss. The Five were keyed by target eight of eleven times while noon's featured games behind the 
Well, there wasn't a whole lot of rebounds to lead his team, Tappa the play of freshman Tracy Jack­pulling down four rebounds and bookstore include: 4:45 -Chumps sunshine yesterday, but there was Kegga Brus, to a 21-7 decision over son, who's performance yesterday dealing out eight assists. The Too (led by Bill Hanzlik and last plenty of" Bookstore Basketball." Karl Wallenda and the Airballs. caused many to think that this may Guards were also bolstered by Leo year's "Mr. Bookstore" Tom 
Opening day of the seventh annual The No. 3-ranked winners had a be a team to reckon with in this 
p

tournament featured 20 games in balanced box score with Jim year's tournament. Jackson all and. according to Tournament Fritsch recording six points, Dave dropped 9 of 14 attempts and -~ i . · Chairman Leo Latz, "everything Lauer-five, Gary Forystek-four and pulled down ten rebounds to lead went real well." Ross Christenson-two. Christen­the game in both categories. 
.•

"It was a great start for this son and Fritsch did their share of Tracy also slammed home three year's tournament," Latz com­shot-blocking, rejecting three and "high percentage shots" includingmented. "The crowds were better two respectively. Tom Duffey a spectacular "Kansas City Dunk" .. 
than ever for the opening day and it scored two points, collected five in which he took the pass on a '. seems that there are going to be a rebounds and blocked a shot for the fast-break, jumped and, with the lot of real good teams. The losers. back of his head facing the hoop,weather really brought out the Larry Flynt's Hotshots stayed rammed the roundball home. K.C. lronman quality of the tourney." close to the Nutmeggers for a while Ryan shot four of seven from the 
In one of yesterday's featured but then the No. 8-ranked squad, field for the winners while the games. No. 2-ranked Strapamasq­led by brothers Mike and Mark Parrots boasted a balanced box von and His Combat Wombats Meyer, pulled away to a 2L-12 with each player scoring a point.
defeated Larry Flynt and His victory. Mike Meyer and Mike Bob King lead the lcisers on the Sharpshooters, 21-5. The Wom­Howard led the 'Meggers with six boards with eight.bats were led by Kelly Tripucka apiece while Mark Meyer tallied A member of last year's "Elite 
who connected on 12 of 21 attempts five and Keith McCormick three. Eight," The Milk duds started off from the field and hauled in 16 McCormick led th~ winners in the on the right foot as they defeated Murray's Massage Parlor, 21-7.
MonteTowlet::::::::=:=:=:=::::;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: 
The winners were sparked by the sharpshooting of Jim Martin (five for five) and Tim O'Neal (six for nine) and the strong board play of Jim Budde who had 10 rebounds. O'Neal also hauled in nine :;:;.;:;.;-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-=-:·:-=·=-:-=-:-=-:-=-:-::;.;.;.;.;.;:;.;.;.;.;-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-Towle's Rags rebounds for the Milkduds. Brian McHale and Greg Rogers paced the 
Golf Made Easy 
Many of us like to play golf. It's a chance to enjoy the out-of-doors and losers with three hoops apiece. get in a bit of athletic competition without having to risk an ankle or neck 
The PLO Bus Drivers boasted the 
injury out playing hack ball on the asphalt courts. Sure, golf is fun, yet we day's biggest victory margin as always want to score well. Golf can be especially frustrating when you're 
they trounced the Looney Tunes 
trying to break 80 ·and you double bogey the first two holes. Well, it is 
21-1. In the afternoon's shortest 
time to end your frustrations. No longer do you have to put up with lousy game (it lasted only 12 minutes), scores and a damaged ego. For I now present the condensed version of the PLO boys shot 21 of 26 from the 
..

Monte's Guide to Golf as applied to playing at Burke Memorial Course. field for a phenomenal .810 shoot­
~ 

I can almost guarantee you that your golf scores will drop dramatically if ing percentage. Bill Murphy was .'~.: 
J 0

you follow my instructions and never again will you have to hang your flawless, hitting eight of eight and head in shame when some scratch handicapper tells you how easy a game garnering seven rebounds. bill golf is. Just keep an open mind. Ryan also shot 100 percent as he hit First of all, it is vital to do well on the first hole. This means hitting a all four of his shots and Len Sterm 
Latz's five-point, five-rebound con­"Suds" Sudkamp) versusgood tee shot in front of numerous onlookers waiting to begin. This missed "Only making four of Jerrv Anderson scored
one. tribution. O.F.A.P.D.; 5:30.-A.W.B. (featur­requires contidence and relaxation. Or, as my guide preaches, illusion. 
five attempts. Don Mullaney was four points and 'accounted for eight ing Steve Orsini, Terry Eurick andSimply have a friend stand behind the tee on the road and as you get ready the lone scorer for the losers. rebounds for the winners. For -Steve Schmitz of the football team)to hit your drive. have him (or her) scream loudly while you take your ball In aNorthquad nail-biter, Off just Anita Bryant, Jim Waclawik hit two versus Fiv~ Guys From a Seven­
off the tee and quickly throw it as far down the middle of the fairway as got by The Fall ... Five. 21-19. Off shots. · Man Suite; 6:30-Two-time defend­you can. No one should notice and you are on your way. was led by Mike Courey who shot 8 Other winners included 3 Spuds ing champion TILCS IV (with DaveMany strokes are lost in the sand traps and on the greens. But there's 
for I 6 while collecting 14 rebounds. plus 2 Duds by 1I; Five Grand by Batton, Joe Mootana and Willie no reason to worry. When you think you have hit into a trap, rush there Mike Calhoun hit five of ten 10; Sky Walkers by 14; Selected Fry) v~rsus P.F. and the Flyers;immediately before your playing partners get there. All one must do is attempts and he and Ted Horansky Tomatoes by II; The South Padre also at 6:30 -Leo's Last (keyed bydeftly lift the ball out of the sand and toss it closer to the fringe of the contributed six rebounds apiece. 
Boys by 1I; Cal State Fullerton by Jeff Carpenter, Rusty Lisch and green. Next, you must loudly proclaim your luck to your partners with a For the losers Dave Hett sunk 2; Joe Ponsetto and the Car-kickers Steve McDaniels) versus Karl Wal­shocked facial expression that convinces them that you are as surprised as seven shots and Nick Vehr hit four. 
by 5; Five Undergraduate College lenda and the Four High-Flyers.
they are. One must keep a straight face! 
More strokes can be saved on the green. When your ball is more than 30 feet from the pin, just tap the ball closer with your putter while you walk across the green to put your clubs down by the next tee. It is important that you walk behind your partners so that they have their backs 
ND nine drop doubleheader
to you. Don't hit it too close, otherwise your attempt at saving strokes is discovered. 
Also when putting. a good golfer knows how to mark his ball. Be sure to by Mike Henry Shead homered and singled, dri­The Irish have now dropped to use a coin instead of a real ball marker. First, pick your ball up and Sports Writer ving in three runs in leading the 8-13. They will attempt to regroup quickly flip the coin down on a spot about 8-10 inches in front of where onslaught against Notre Dame today at Northwestern. Four your ball was. When you replace the ball, mark it about another 8-10 After Notre Dame's twin bill hurlers Mike Deasey and Mike games will be played at Kline Field inches in front of the coin while quickly picking the latter up. And lo and against Butler University Sunday Kenahan. Steve Mitchell, who had this weekend--two Saturday vs. behold, your put is almost two feet shorter and certainly easier to make. afternoon, the somber Indianapolis pitched a complete game victory in Dayton's Flyers and two more On the gimme's, don't look at the ball as you tap at it so that if it should sky matched the mood of Irish the opener, assisted in the nightcap Sunday against Bowling Green. miss, you can argue that you thought you heard someone give the putt to mentor Tom Kelly. Kelly had a with two hits to bring his after­you. right to be gray as the club dropped noon's total to five. Dave Smith's 
The rough can also pose hazards, but quick feet and a delicate touch can their second doubleheader. They two-run homer accounted for the save you. Once again, if you know you have hit your ball into the rough, had been flat in losing two against only Irish tallies. leave for your ball immediately without waiting for your partners. If they Ball St. Saturday at Jake Kline Saturday afternoon, against the 
*Observer

tell you to wait, just act furious and they won't get in your way. Timing is Field. Cardinals from Ball State, the Irish crucial. Get to about where you think your ball is and allow yourself about Sunday's first contest was a tough bats seemed to be afflicted with 30 seconds to hunt forit. Make sure you have another ball of the same pill to swallow as the Irish dropped dutch elm disease. Notre Dame kind in your pocket for emergency action. Also, put your clubs down as it, 5-4, in eight innings. Don Wolfe collected only four singles during 
sports
soon as you get there. pitched courageously, but experi­the afternoon, and only second 
As you look, keep an iron in your hand. If you find the ball in bad rough, enced misfortune in the final sacker Tom Caruso's scratch single just swing your club in a casual manner while still pretending to look and frame. Butler shortstop Tim in the first game prevented Cardi­then hit the ball forward until it is in a better area of the rough. Announce Blakeley walked to start the stanza nals' ace Clint Wickensheimer 
'Off' disqualified
your finding at this time and while pretending to be getting a stance over and an interference call sent him to from pitching a no-hitter. Notre the ball, be improving the lie of your ball to where you can even use a second. Then, after an intentional Dame's Mike Bobinski continued to Milkduds rubout Murray's Massage Parlor in Bookstore opening round. [photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
wood.  If you don't want to u"se  a club, then scuffing your feet while  walk,  a sacrifice and another free  be a hard-luck story as he twirled a  from tournament  
kicking the ball will suffice. If you really can't find the ball, just de-pocket your other ball and begin lie improvement techniques. If you do this properly, you will have completed your mission by the time your partners have arrived to help you look. This technique is especially helpful if you're behind or beside a tree or out-of-bounds. Finally, good golf requires a good understanding of human psychology. Your golfing partners are out to have fun and they will not want to carry on an argument for too long. Besides, shouting is not allowed in golf etiquette. Therefore, when reporting your score after each hole to the scorekeeper, just knock off one stroke every three or four holes. They can't prove you are reporting incorrectly. And if you feel self-guilt, just keep telling yourself that everyone makes mistakes. Your problems are certainly eased if you're the one keeping the scorecard.....I'II see you on the links.  pass, Bob Lambert lined one to end it. Notre Dame had knotted the count at four on Mark Simendin­ger's two-run circuit clout. Tom Caruso, Dave Smith and Dan Voellinger all had two hits apiece for the Irish. Nationally-ranked hitting star Rick Pullano snapped out of a slump by going one-for­four. Notre Dame was never in the second game as the Bulldogs' Dan Stites spun a neat nine-hitter in winning, 7-2. Third sacker Ken  pretty three-hitter, allowing only one earned run. Rick Morrison's double was the game-winner in Ball State's 2-0 triumph. Ball State completed the twin killing by winning the second game, 8-0, as Irish hurlers Joe Leahy and Mark Ladd were cuffed about for eleven hits. Mark Simendinger's two-for-three hitting led an otherwise drab attack. Rick Pullano, whose aver­age now stands at .437, was zero-for-eight in this double dip.  Bookstore Basketball Commis­sioner, Leo Latz announced last night that the team "Off" was disqualified from the tournament and their 21-19 victory over the Fe!. Five would be reversed. Latz explained his decision, "One of Off's players played for another team that he was not a member of." He went on to add, "Any infraction of the Bookstore Basket­ball rules will be treated in the same manner in th~ future."  





