
Considers them in crisis state 
Sadat expects deadlock in talks 
[AP] -Egyptian President Anwar Sadat described the Mideast peace talks yesterday as being in a state of "serious crisis'~ and raised the possibility of a suspension to allow Egypt and Israel time to consider their positions. 
Informed Egyptian sources said their government has formulated new proposals designed to avoid a total deadlock in the Washington 
peace treaty talks that still hold to Egypt's primary demands. 
In Jerusalem, the Israeli Cabinet cut short its review of the Israeli-Egyptian negotiations to await clarification of the new proposals. 
The White House said President Carter met with Israeli Defense Minister Ezer Weizman to Tuesday to ask Israel to wait until Egypt's new position is clear before making any decisions. 
Sadat, speaking to university 
~ d d · I ·1·
protessors an stu ents m smatta, "we have gone a long way at the Washington talks and have achiev­ed 90 percent of the road. 
"Now we are at a serious cr1s1s and if we can avoid it in order to achieve the remaining 10 percent by suspending the talks for a while to allow the parties to think again and then resume, so be it." 
The Egyptian leader did not elaborate on the nature of the crisis, nor did he refer to the reported fresh formulaion of E t' d d I ~ d
gyp s eman s. n1orme sources in Cairo, however, said "The work crisis can be underlined. 
It is very real." 
by Kevin Richardson Senior Staff Reporter 
Stating that ''the key to Hispanic peoples' advancement in society today is dependent upon our de­veloping viable support institu­tions," Raul Yzaguirre, National Director of the National Council of La Raza said as he addressed a group of students last night in the Law School lounge. He spoke on the problems Hispanic-Americans currently face in the United State!>. 
"The problem for Chicanos started with the first wet-back," Uzagirre said. "But if you define 'wet-back' (illegal immigrant) as 
' one who enters an area without papers or permission. you must call Sam Houston arrtt Davy Crocket wetbacks too," Yzaguirre said. "Since about 1848. AJ1glos have supported a systematic denial of Hispanic people's rights. During this period and the period after the Civil War, systems of recourse to discrimination were available to Blacks but not to Hispanics," Yzaguirre said. . "Though the ·facilities the Blacks had were inferior, they nonetheless · helped them to develop leadership and solidarity, the Hispanics had no such institutions to help them," Yzaguirre added. Yzaguirre talked about past poli­cies which disocuraged Hispanics from going to high school. Such policies ''grew out of the economic 

The Eugene Rousseau Saxaphone Quartet entertained a large crowd last night in the Library Auditorium [photo by Mark Muench] 

the private sector too. Only one-half of one percent of all corporate foundation money goes into Hispanic institutions though we comprise ten percent of the total 
U.S. population," he stated. 
Yzaguirre also pointed out the problems Hispanics face in the politica arena. "Los Angeles county has more Mexicans than an_y other place in the world except Mexico City and yet we are unable to translate those numbers into political power," he said. Yzaguirre documented the effects of this lack of political power with the fact that eighty-percent of the 
bi-lingual  teaching  program  
teachers  in  California  are  mono­ 
lingual in English.  

"The future is in our hands," Yzaguirre said. "By any criteria, Hispanics are or will soon be, the largest minority group in the United States and we must wo}'k together to translate our numbers into the type of pwer that will help our movement. We {Dust work to 
build real institutions that will be the places where our future leaders can he trained," Yzaguirre stated. 
"We need to look ahead, have a pluralistic view of society and show that we have something to offer the country. And this goes beyond mere equality, I am talking about our role in helping define the American dream, a dream that values each people for what they are and for what they can contri­bute," Yzaguirre said. 
difficulties which faced educators who wanted to maintain segregated schools but who could not afford separate ones for Hispanics. Consequently , few Hispanic child­ren went past the eighth grade." 
Yzaguirre said that institutions are now being formed to help develop the foundations necessary for a "successful social move­
• ment." He recalled a recent meet­ing Washington, D.C. between Hispaic and Black leaders to dis­cuss common goals and problems. 
''The Black leaders stressed the importance of our developing our own institutions. Institutions which will help define and guide our movement. Institutions which help in the accumulation of power," Yzaguirre said. 
A program in the federal govern­ment which is supposed to help Hispanics obtain parity in employ­ment within the federal govern­ment drew criticism from the Hispanic leader. 
"It will be past the year 2000 before Hispanics get full parity in federal employment and such a loss in employment revenue income to our people is estimated to cost one billion dollars per year,", Yzaguirre said. 
"There are some 2000 com­mittees in the federal government 
that have power over peoples Jives and Hispanics are severely under­represented on these committees," Yzaguirre said. "It is just as b~d in 
lhe wasnmgton negotiations 
have been snarled by Egyp!_ian 
pressure to tie the trans-formation 
of the Israeli-occupied West Bank 
and Gaza Strip into an autonomous 
Palestinian region to the develop­
ment of peaceful relations between 
Egypt and Israel. 
Israel wants the peace treaty to 
stand on its own and has opposed 
tt' t' t bl th d
se mg any 1me a e on e ev­
elopments in the West Bank or 
Gaza Strip. 
There was some confusion in 
Western diplomatic circles in Cairo 
as to the weight of the new 
proposals, particularly over a re­
port that Sadat was demanding the "return" of the Gaza Strip. Egypt administered the territory from 1948-196 7, wheri it was captured by fsrael. 
Sadat, harshly criticized by some Arab states for ignoring the Palestinians, has insisted that a link be made. Because of Israel's rejection of Egyptian demands thus far, the sources said, Sadat was trying to deal with Gaza first, leaving the West Bank for later. 
"It is less emotional for them than 
the West Bank," one source said. 
"It would be easier to implement 
steps in Gaza-than in the West 
Bank.'' 
'i'rime Minister Menachem Begin told reporters after a three-hour Cabinet session, "According to the latest reports received, Egypt is about to submit new proposals and demands related to· the negotiat­ions between the two countries. These reports are not yet official ana complete. 
''In view of this fact, the Cabinet decided to hold the political debate after it has received all the neces· sary clarifications concerning :he additional positions of Egypt." 
U.S.  Ambassador Samuel  I.ewia  
·  · d  h  
sal  '  owever,  after  calling  l.lf!  

Begin, that the Washington '>tlk::: were continuing and "there t:; !JO
crisis." 
President Carter will be hr~.r-f,,d . on the Egyptian suggestior.:. bv 
Vice President Hosni Mukra\, 
who Sadat dispatched to Wasi·:;,r; 
ton 'yesterday, theEgyptian ;;o-.~n.:c said. 
In Damascus, Syrian Pres;•L'n~; Hafez Assad of Syria vowed '·z: "Syria and the Arab nations .• ;;1 save the Egyptian people frorl' •ih• shameful position to which it 1;.r. been dragged by its rulers.'' 
In a speech before the annca1 Syrian trade 1mion congress, As:>ad said Israel and Egypt "can sign <~n:: agreements they want, bilateral o:­otherwise, but such agreemenb will not bring peace to the Middk East because peace cannot bt· established without us." 
Th.ere was no indication in Jerusalem when the Cabinet would resume its discussions. The Cabi­net had met to take up a new U.S. proposal designed to bread ' the snags in the Washington talks. 
The Israeli press reported the Americans have suggested that one link would be to call for elections in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip riot later than December 1979. 

COLUMBO, Sri Lanka [AP]-A chartered jetliner carrying 246 Moslem pilgrims home from Mecca crashed, broke up and burned yesterday a mile from Columbo's airport while being guided down in a severe thunderstorm, airport authorities said. 
Bill Connor, a spokesman for Icelandic Airlines in New York, ' said all but 47 of those aboard were killed. The Federal Aviation put the number of survivors at from 47 to 100. • 
''The plane broke into several pieces. I walked away and some others did too, but I don't know about my friends," said an Indonesian newspaper editor who was aboard the aircraft. 
Sri Lanka military and police rescue squads were trying to cu. through the wreckage to free the bodies of victims. · 
The Icelandic DC-8, bound from Jidda, Saudi Arabia, also carried 13 crew members. It had been chartered by an Indonesian 'firm. The crash occurred at about 1 p.m. EST. • 
Witnesses said a fleet of ambu­lances shuttled the Injured to a nearby hospital. 
Authorities said they did not know what caused the crash and said they were s~arching for the jet's flight recorder. 
The airport is about 18 miles from Colombo, capital of this islarid nation off the tip of India. 
Aviation officials here said the plane was in contact with the tower until the crash occurred. 
~---·-----------------------------­
---------------------------------------------------~ 
2 
the observer 
Thursday,Novembft16,1978 Prof rates as emerging 
, 
,....News Briefs 
1==::::=:::=========================World 
IOil fields almost nonnal 
'11mJtAN, 1ru [AP]-Iran's daily oil production r~ached 3.3 million barrels after officials declared a two-wee~ strike ~y 37,000 ~il workers ended, but western sources said d1ehard ~trikers a~e st1~l teeping one offshore field from operating. The Nat1onal Iraman Otl Co. said production at the Persian Gulf Refinery at. Abadan, the biggest in the world, is almost back to the normal dally average of 500,000 barrels after the walkout was formallr over Tuesday. ~e state oil monopoly said three smaller refinenes at Tehran, ~abnz and Kermanshah had a combined output of 185,000 barrels m t~e last 24 hours. Authoritative Western sources confirmed that the b1g oilfield in southwestern Kuzestan province and three offshore fiel.ds in the Persian gulf were working again but the sources,, satd:_ "There's still considerable resentment among the workers who refused to man the other of.~shore field. One unconfirmed. r7port from Abadan said police forc~d refinery workers back to thetr Jobs. 
National
I=====================~======~ 
Airlines buy Boeing jets 
NEW YORK* (AP)-American Airlines and Delta Airlines placed orders for almost $3 billion in Boeing Co. Planes yesterday, giving Boeing a major boost in its competition with European Airplane builders to provide the next generation of wide-bodied jets. 
American said it ordered 30 Boeing 767s and took options on 20 for a total cost of$1.25 billion at current costs. Delta orders and options totaled $1.7 billion for 42 Boeing 767s and eight Boeing 727-200s. 
Boeing stock rose 13/8 to 61 5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange after reports of the orders began circulating. 
The 767 is a new wide-bodied, twin-engine jet designed to be fuel efficient and to fill a gap between larger airliners and smaller narrow-body planes. It competes with the Airbus 310, produced by Airbus Industrie, a European Consortium, which has yet to penetrate the American Market although. ~ larger version, the Airbus 300, has been bought by Eastern A1rhnes. 
United Airlines was the first airline to order the 767, thereby assuring it would be produced. It ordered 30 in July. 

Purdue furnishes turkey 
WEST LAFAn:t IE, lad. [AP)-"Purdue Pete" will be going out in style. He'll be flown to Washington on Monday in a cage painted gold and black· Purdue University's school colors-and then he'll be presented to President Carter. Unfortunately, for Pete, it will be his last honor. After meeting the president, Pete will become the first family's Thanksgiving Day Diner, said Robert L. Hogue, executive secretary of the Indiana State Poulty Association. The 36-pound Pete, hatched at Jasper and reared on a Purde research farm, won the distinction because each year the president of the National Turkey Federation supplies the first family a turkey from his home state. This year the president is Ted Wasden of Indianapolis, Hogue said. 
Weather 
Cool with a 40 percent chance of rain today. Highs in the low to mid 40s. A 70 percent chance of rain tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight around 40. Highs tomorrow in the mid to upper 40s. 
~On Campus Today_----... 
4 pm 
6:30 om 7 pm 
seminar, "molecular distortion & organic reactivity: alkenes vs allenes," prof. k.n. houk, 123 nieuwland 
meeting, all members of the student food advisory board, faculty dining rm., south·dining hall 
career workshop, "work values & decisioA making," dr. kathleen rice, stapleton lounge-lemans 
7,9 & 11 pm film, "the last detail," engr. aud., $1 
8 pm 
8 pm 8 & 9 pm 
midnight lecture, "the revolution in anglican baptismal theology: 1834-1851," rev. bruce griffith, trinity college, u. of toronto, galvin aud. 
recital, jeffrey noonan on the guitar, little theatre 
student recital, class of becky stauffer, 115 crowley hall 
wsnd album hour, "flame" by ronnie laws, am 640 
leader in higher education 
David C. Leege, professor ot government and international studies and director of the Center for the Study of Man in contempor­ary Society at Notre Dame, is among "100 of the most respected emerging leaders in higher educa­tion" ~amed in the current 'Change magazme. 
The article in the publication, which specializes in higher educa­tion issues, is a follow-up to a list of the 44 most influential leaders of the American academy published by the magazine in 1975. (Notre 
Dame's preste1ent, Fr.  Theodore  
M. Hesburgh,  placed  second  in  
that survey.)  
Leege,  who  holds  an  under­ 
graduate degree  from  Valparaiso  

University and a doctorate in political science from Indiana Uni­versity, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1976 to head the Univer­sity's interdisciplinary research effort in the humanities and social 
sciences. 
The Change magazine piece described his career as spanning "both teaching and administrative appointments at the University of Missouri, the State Universtty of New York at Buffalo, and the University of Illinois-Ch!cago Circle. His special desire to help diverse people learn from what scholars do has led to such projects as a newpaper column based on citizen polls and teaching faculty new research methods. He believes that we need better methods of identifying talen~ed 
Voice students
'• 
to give recital 
A recital from 15 voice students of Becky Stauffer will be held tonight in Crowley recital hall at 8 and 9 p.m. 
Included in the recital will be selections from Handel's "Messiah", as well as other clas­sical pieces 
Darby's plans Thanksgiving party 
Plans are now being made for Darby's Thanksgiving Party, which will be held next Thursday. Anyone who wishes to do so, may send contributions to Fr. Robert Griffin, 101 Keenan. 
r*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher 
Asst. Night Editor: Kathie 
Tighe, Dave Brosh 
Layout Staff: Extinct! Hurry 
back Bea! 
Editorial layout: Rosemary 
Mills 
Features layout: Karen 
Caruso academics and new opportunities outside the academy for those who wish to change course in mid· career." 
To identify the ·leaders, Change polled "6,200 faculty members; administrators; journalists, government, foundation, and as­sociation officials; and others familiar with the academic enter­prise." Re5pondents submitted 
names of more than 2,000 persons, of whom 500 ''were invited to submit their full credentials.'' Change then made the final selec­tions. 
SMC Business Program holds internship meeting 
The Saint Mary's College Business Associates Program held its first meeting Monday. And faculty members and students from the department of business admin­istration and economics gave a presentation outlining Saint Mary's internship projects and arrange­ments through which the students and area businesses interact. 
The Saint Mary's Business Asso­ciates program was recently in­augurated as part of a comprehen­sive development program of the College and is national in scope. 
Through the Business Associates an· influential core of business leadership gives advice, guidance and assistance in strengthening the bonds between Saint Mary's and the business community. 
Its goal is the establishment of a substantial base of annual unre­stricted giving from this support sector. 

0-.~ ~ 

mi.Wstry
V this friday and every friday 
5:15 mass and supper 


-
0
THURSDAY NIGHT SPEGAL! 
~
_,.
::.•. 
NICKIEtS 
Cans of Miiier, Lite, Bud, Strohs, Pabst, Busch S Olympia 

~·················~ 
: What are the oppurtunities? : 
+ F t
+ B.. . t: r? Find out by helping plan the : 
:'» ~ . 2nd annual women's .:
:• . ? oppurtunity week t
i ~? (sponsored by the J l • SMC student government) • 
t Organizational meeting in student I gov 't office -Regina Hall •
.

• Thurs., Nov. 16 at 6pm •
.................................. 
,-,•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-• 
Sports layout: Debbie Dahr-• I' ling I 
Typists: Tom Powanda, Rosie 1· 
Willard  I  
Early  Morning  Typist:  Lisa  1  
DiValerio  I  


Rodgers, Tricia Meehan, Beth I 
Day Editor: Keith Melarango Copy Reader: Tim Joyce, Mike Ridenour Ad layout: Matt 'one horse race' DeSalvo Photographer: Mark Muench
l~ Sorry Tim! J 
The Observer Is published Mon­
I
day through Friday except during ex.m and vacation periods. The Obser-ver Is published by the students of Notre O.me and S.int Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ($ 1 0 per semester I from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndl•u usu. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of ttle Asaoclated Preu. All repro­duction rights •re reserved. 
Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men &·Women, • with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
open late tues.-thurs. 8pm 
North Y2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272·7222 
2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood
south 
291-1001 
•
• I
master charge v1sa 1 
~----~-----~------------------------..~ 
~--~--------~~ 
ThurscLay, November 16, 1978 
the obsener 
3 
Anthropologist Margaret Mead dies 
NEW YORK [ AP]-Margaret Mead, one of the world's foremost anthropologists and idol of several generations of American students, died yesterday after a year-long battle with cancer. She was 76. 
She died at New York Hospital, 
where she had been admitted Oct. 
2, no longer able tp work at her 
permanent headquarters in the 
American Museum of Natural His­
tory. 
She was the retired curator of Enthology there and also had occupied chairs on anthropology at Columbia and Fordham universit­ies. 
Miss Mead, whose early fame and professional reputation were based on exhaustive field studies of primitive pacific island cultures, always stayed in tune and in touch with young of her own land. 
She angered some political con­servatives, who objected to her views on marijuana and generat­
ional conflict. She favored legaliz­
ation of marijauna because, she 
said, banning it bred conflict 
between children and their 
parents, and that was worse than 
any harm it did. 
She also thought adults had to 
heed the opinions of their children. 
One reason for this, she said, was 
television, which produced a gener­
ation that saw "history being made 
before it is censored by their 
elders." 
A writer once dubbed her ''grand­
mother of us all." and that descrip­
tion was endorsed by Edward J. 
Lehman, executive director of the 
American Anthropological Assoc­
iation, which was meeting in Los Angeleswhen she died. 
"Margaret's death is a loss not 
only to anthropolgy, but to science 
in general; not only to U.S. society, 
but to the world. She's irreplace­
able," said Lehman. 
Popularizing anthropolgy was 
among her major achievements ­
"Mass education of the very best 
kind," said Robert Murphy, a 
Campaign conserves energy and money 
by Michael Frailey 
A campaign to conserve energy at Notre Dame has resulted in a saving of almost 1.2 million kilo­watt hours or approximately $360,000 during this semester. The report was compiled by Direc­tor of Energy Conservation Fr. James Riehle. 
The savings, according to Riehle, come as a result of a campus wide energy conservation program implemented last spring, which set as its goal a minimum 20 percent reduction in University energy consumption. 
However, despite these promis­ing figures, Riehle is quick to warn 
students  and  faculty  that  the  
energy fight has just begun.  
"It is estimated that  even  with  
the 20 percent reduction in  con­ 

sumption, the increased cost for fuel and purchased utilities for 1978-79 will amount to $575,000 or approximately $70 per student,'' Riehle said. 
"Unfortunately," he ·said, "this means that the more energy we use, the more it will cost the University and in turn add to the already rising tuition. The ques­tion is simple. Do we want tuition to go up because of wasted energy, or do we not?" 
Concern for efficient energy use is not new to Notre Dame. Since 1972 when the University first attempted to deal with the energy problem, Notre Dame has saved 22 million kilowatt hours which is equivalent to-$660,000. 
In past years, the Department of Energy Conservation has taken numerous steps in an effort to slow energy use, Riehle said. 
Recently, thermostats were in­stalled in all student rooms and have resulted in a savings of over 30 percent as compared to last year's totals. New showerheads in the dorms, which reduce the flow of water, and the automatic timers for classroom lights have also reduced campus energy consumption.· 
The university power plant has also increased its energy efficiency, according to Riehle. ·He explained, "By constantly updating its sys­tems the power plant has greatly improved its efficiency and is easily one of the most efficient plants in the United States." 
According to the monthly report issued by Riehle, most dorms have cut back on energy consumption 
when  compared  to  last  year's  
totals.  
Grace Hall showed the  largest  

savings with a reduction of 46,000 kilowatt hours this semester, while Fisher and Pangborn folJowed with reductions of 18,000 and 12,000 respectively. 
However, seven dorms had the dubious distinction of increased energy consumption. Lewis was the leading violator with an in­
[ continued on page 11] 

Book Shelfs Stereo Shelfs 

Amer. Express
Floor Sofas 
Moster Charge
Silk Screens 
Visa Accepted
and much more 
.Lifestyle Furniture and Unique gift ideas 
thiRsty thuRsbay Special BRIOqet's BuO Bash €) 



Columbia University anthropolo­gist and fromer department chair­man. 
"She pioneered two important fields, being the first to take a cross-cultural look at childhood and the role of culture in shaping personality," he said. "In 1949, ~she wrote 'Male and Female,' 20 years before the rest of the world turned its eyes on the female role." 
Miss Mead, who was born Dec. 16,---1901, in a suburb of Philadelphia preached that a large, cohesive family was the best en­vironment for a child to grow in. 
She regretted the passing of multi­generational households -children, parents and grandparents -like the one in which she grew up. 
But the institution of marriage, she thought, was dipensable and she went through three marriages and divorces herself. 

Cila is selling Christmas cards in the Library concourse. That means Christmas [and finals) can't be far away. [photo by Mark Muench] 
need resumes in a hurry? 
insty-prints 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
rag bond 
25  -8 1/2  X  ll  $2.55  
203  N.  Ma111  
SoBend  289 691  

CORNER OF GIAPE ROAD & CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Call ahead for laster service or directions 
277-5300 
I-----------------------------------------·----~
I
I $1.00 OFF 
I I 
I 
I ON ANY LARGE 
I 
I I DEEP DISH I I SICILIAN PIZZA! 
$1.50 OFF 
ON ANY SIZE 
·MASTERPIZZA! 
I ONE COUPON PER ORDE• I ONE COUPON PEl OIDEI 12/3/78
'-------..12/3/78_______________________________! 
,.-'-.' •. :-... :>-."• 

Thursday, November 16, 1978
the observer 
Croni_n warns of alcohol abuse 
by Rob Powers referred to her office when she first abstain from alcohol, but she came to Notre Dame in 1975 were suggests an initial period of absti­
Staff Reporter sent by the Dean of Students, she nence, and then a three month Irish Catholics are "sitting said an increasing number are sent period of moderate, regulated ducks," vulnerable to alcohol by hall rectors, J -boards, and other drinking. abuse Peggy Cronin told a small students. Cronin said that she had coun­
group of students in Cavanaugh Cronin said she is pleased that selled some seniors last year who Hall last night during a lecture on students are becoming more invol­were undergoing such a trial period 
•• Alcohol Awareness.'' ved in Alcohol Awareness pro-of abstinence during the Death Cronin, who is Alcohol and Drug gram "Students should March. "They watched their Counsellor · at the Student Health make guidelines if the behavior is classmates and were appalled,'' Center, worked in alcohol rehabili­offensive," she said. she said. 
tation in Ireland over the summer, "Every hall should have one or Cronin said the students must where she found the drinking two persons to take care of alcohol use more "ingenuity" in planning situation to be "just like at Notre abuse," she said. Students in hall functions to de-emphasize the Dame," with use of alcohol "not trouble might feel "less anger" use of alcohol. She suggested 
discussed and frequently abused." toward the idea of other students skating ev.ents and other functions helping them. which would not involve alcohol. c;ronin said she believes the Cronin, who founded Students "Freshman seem to have the 
on Alcohol Abuse (SOAP) on worst problems," she said, point­
problem in Ireland might be the result of "the really strong rules, campus, said that she does not ing to an example of two freshmen all the 'shoulds' and 'should nots.' demand that the students who are who got drunk and passed out in 
While most of the students referred to her office permanently the Engineering Building a few years ago. One of the freshmen 
had .3 alcohol content in the blood


STAft"INO 
Winnerl
ofTen
CLARK GABLE Academy 
Awards
'11\'IEN LEIGll . LESijiE liO\~\lU) OI~l\·1Ade H.-\\'II~L\ND 
. ··~ECTEO DV SCIUf'-1 "l·R~\.£AIJfO IV 
ASh.J·' .;~ if\T~R~t.TIONAL PICTURi: ·VICTOR fLEMING ·s1o~[;;o~~Ro · METRO GOLDWYN '-"AVER~~~ 
• ''" "' ..... , .,. ~ STfR(OPHONIC SOUND MEl RUCQI_cli 0 MGM 
Friday nov 17 8pm Saturday nov 18 2:30 & Spm Sunday nov 19 7:30pm 
Carroll Hall SMC Admission $1.00 
sponsored by social commission 
and was rushed to the hospital after 
he was found by security, Cronin 
said. 
Cronin said two signs of .alcohol abuse which students should watch out for among their peers are a "change of personality" and a "lack of control" with drinking. 
In addition to her talk, Cronin showed "Booze and You," a cartoon film created to makt! stu­dents aware of drinking problems. Peggy Cronin spoke on alcohol awareness last night in 
Cavanaugh Hall [photo by Mark Muench] 
To appear Saturday 
Alwyn presents 'Christian rock' 
by Pat Mangan sought after the Beatles ... and con­As their dissatisfaction with TM nected. grew, Malcom and Alwyn became Today there is a new kind of In 1967 Wall and his partner­interested in Christianity and deci­music catching on and unless you Malcom Wild got into TM with ded to check out a little Christian listen closely to the lyrics, there's a George Harrison. Recalling the church in their neighborhood ... good chance you won't recognize it past Wall said, "The odd thing "People were really enjoying them­for what it is. It's called contem­about meditation is that something selves, reaJiy singing, and really porary Christian music and it has happens...You experience a sense believing, I felt. Young people given birth to a form of music that you have no body. You feel were baning away on tambourines called "Christian rock." something bubbling inside, a and even the old people were 
Nicknamed by the Saturday thrill." having a good time," said Alwyn. Evening Post, "Rock of Ages," this ''Sometimes there were flashes But this time, according to new version of Christian music of colors. Of course it didn't always Alwyn, their three chord rock had seems to have caught its roots in work, only sometimes ... And the died, but together he and Malcom the "Jesus Movement" of the late problem was that when you were allowed their new found relation­
60's and more recently it has been done there was nothing to anchor it ship with Jesus to bill the void. fueled by the "born-again" move­to. It was so disconnected from Then in 1972, like them, their ment of the 70's. your normal experience, so you music was reborm. The duo 
Although Christian, this new were always looking for more." [continued on page 9] movement .in music is not without its notables. The movement boasts such talent as b.j. thomas, Billy 
lnPIRG 's goal is answers on
Preston and Debbie Boone whose recording of ''You Light Up My Life" was number one in 1977. It 
issues of student concern 
also heralds Noel "Paul" Stookey, (formerly of Peter, Paul, and by Lynne Daley 
would deal primarily with campus­Mary), and Barry McGuire (for­related issues, though communitymerly of the New Christy Minstrels­In an effort to become a Univer­concerns would be given some and composer of "Eve of Destruc­sity-funded organization In PIRG consideration. "It belongs to the tion"). Andrea Crouch, a leader in (Indiana Public Interest Research students,'' he said. 
the Christian scene, whose music Group} began petitioning for stu­Lack of funding has hamperedranges from jazz to rock, recently dents' signatures on campus last InPIRG's activity during the fivetopped one million albums in night. The leader of this drive, years of its existence on campus,record sales. Phil Keaggy, another Kevin Cleary, hopes that 70 to 80 according to the new supporters.
leader, ·was termed the "best 
per cent of the student body will
guitarist in the world'' by the late They hope the funding will
sign.
Jimi Hendrix. enable the group to hire a staff
If this goal is reached, InPIRG 
However, one of the most recent member. The money would also be 
will attain mandatory refundable 
and quickly rising groups is the used to pay the publication costs of
status. This would mean that a 
Alwyn Wall Band. Alwyn and his each case so that students can be
charge of two dollars would be 
four member band are scheduled to kept informed of the act\vities of
automatically levied upon each 
perform in Washington Hall Satur­the organization. 
student at the University, to be 
day night at 8 p.m., and were refunded at the students' requests. Notre Dame law students would 
featured last night on WSND's be used for much of the legal
The purpose of InPIRG, accord­
album hour. 
ing to the petition, is "to articulate research, with lawyers on call in Wall, who started his musical and preserve through the media, the event that a case is taken to career at age 13, was a product of court.
the institutions of government, the 
the fast moving sixties like so many courts and other legal means, the ''I think there is a lot ofof the others. Searching for mean­answers of students on issues of interest." Cleary said. "Apathying in life, and growing up in general public interests." exists because people don't have
Enf!land as a mustcian. Alwyn Cleary stressed that the group any piace to direct their interests ·' 
, 
Put a little music in your life. • • At the NAZZ 
~cuCRg ·u~tll~tco ©ttbL£' (9-???) r~oggicoQ troc~ bond gq;~\9CDcA:gj 9 -11 •c'toolJ S£alt'tt! 9:go ffie ·~ c.Atul ' CBattd f,eatuttrng V<evrn QuigQey attd CQwh cplt~iooo ~ 


-----~-.... ----,.. .. _... __ ... -------..... ----_. ______ .,_ .... _.--:----~---,.-:--;-*"-·--·--------.. --... ~ 
Thank you 
Dear Editor: 
The following message is addressed to the students of Notre Dame. 
We of Bi·g Brothers/Big Sisters 
-wish to extend our thanks to all those students who participated in the football ticket donation drive last week. Thanks to your genero­sitY we were able to share the excitement of a Notre Dame game with children who would not normally have the opportunity to do so. We also wish to thank you for the concern and warmth you extended our young guests during the course of Saturday's events; you support and friendship have always been an important part of our pro~ram. 
The Big Brothers/, Bhz Sisters of ND Mike Mullen Dan Monroe 
The right direction 
Dear Editor: 
Okay sportsfans, it's time to take back everything you ever said about Farmer Brown's pigs and the salad dressing in the South Dining Hall, because Ed Price went to bat for you Monday night only to be silenced by the parliamentary procedures of the CLC. After quietly listening to a presentation and discussion of the CLC's recom­mendations concerning the allevia­tion of overcrowding on campus, Mr. Price asked if he could present his own proposals to the CLC. He had checked up on some of the ideas presented at previous HPC and CLC meetings and had brought along copies of his own proposals. A motion to set aside the CLC 
.recommendations temporarily and listen to Mr. Price was voted down by a narrow margin. 
Several reasons for voting the motion down were put forth. The main reason was that it was considered the job of the CLC to pass their recommendations to the administration and receive a re­sponse for the student body from the administration. If you have been reading this letter from the beginning, the lunacy of this argument is clear. The Director of • University Housing was sitting in the room listening to the CLC proposals and was availabl~ for immediate comment and discus­sion. There was no reason for making the red tape still deeper by sending a formal resolution to the administration. 
The question of on-campus housing availability is one tha.t will have to be answered qmckly; leaving the students the maximum amount of time to find off-campus housing. The CLC recommenda­tions dealt mainly with how to cram more people into the existing residence ha11s next semester and the long-range goals concerning the optimum size of the Notre the faintest idea of what he is thought there were several gross
Dame student body. talking about. Or possibly this oversights. First, why was there 
Mr. Price made the more realis­statement reveals that, actually, no credit given to the director ofthe 
tic comments that 1) the existing Mr. Price, the Registrar, and 
production? Considering the direc­residence halls are already indeed the Director of Admission tor is the person ultimately respon­
crowded beyond normal capacity, have no concept of the problem. 
sible for all aspects of the produc­
2) the same overcrowding will How can they find a feasible · tion, the mention of her name probably occur next year, and 3) solutions? : 
(Chris Opdyke), if nothing else,the policies of the housing office I want answers, and honest' should have been inherent. Sec­
will have to be modified due to the attempts at solutions. Statements ond, the nature of the setting was 
possibility of a lottery. Mr. Price's like Mr. Price's " ...1 don't care described and lauded, but there proposal reads, ''Information con­how the over-crowding situation was no mention of the set, cos­cerning the changes in policy and will be solved." are no longer tumes, and lighting designers. It 
procedures. should be publicized going to be accepted. 
appeared to me that there was 
prior to the Thanksgiving Holiday. The University of Notre Dame is much thought and skill involved in 
Student government should be the best school in the country -that . the design of this production, in 
involved in some of the decisions." is why I am here. It is becoming I . fact much more than in the past 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!p.0 .BOX Q 
Although I do not agree totally with the proposals presented by Mr. Price, the mechanics of a lottery can be worked out later. I do feel that his basic idea of telling everybody what is going on as sooon as possible is a step in the right direction. 
Mike Decker 
Vrew .from 0-C 
Dear Editor: As an off-campus student who has withheld his opinion long enough, I would like to address a few issues. ' I am an off-campus student not by choice, but by necessity.-As a transfer student I was not allowed to live on campus because therewas no room. In August I was told that rooms would soon be made avail­able. We all know how that has turned out. Yet, the Director of Housing is already predicting a possible shortage of over 500 beds .next year. What will be done about this? A few blue and gold Quonset huts would surely add to the beauty of this campus. Or maybe campus trailer park. Although my situation is less than desirable, I consider myself fortunate. I wasn't forced to live in a rat-infested basement, or in an overcrowded study lounge. The off-campus student is told that he is not a second-class citizen of this school, yet we are .constantly disregarded in many of the most important matters m the areas of academics and social life. The opinion of the 0-C student was not regarded in the proposed expan­sion of the Huddle. Pre­registration F.->rm SO's were not even mailed to 0-C sophomores until it was virtually impossible for us to receive them in time to complete our registration proce­dure like "real" students. And, to add insult to injury, our ·very own Director of Housing stated in the Observer that anyone who can't find off-campus housing "doesn't know what he is talking about."! I disagree, Mr. Price, as will any student who sought housing prior to this term. And I dare say to Mr. Price that, indeed, he doesn't have 
~The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community 
Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
• EDITORIAl BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mi IIs Editorral Editor Phil Cackley .Cor\ Editor Jean Powley ·Saint Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson • News Editor Ray O"Brien Sports J: ditor Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Thunday, NMcember 16, 1971 
apparent, however, that indeed the :students and the teaching facul­ty make it great, despite the efforts of our administration. 
MattS. Murphy 
More credit due· 
Dear Editor: As a person very much inter­ested in theatre at Notre Dame and Saint Marys, I was pleased to see a review of the recent Student Players production of You're a, Good-Man" tCharUe ··: :-:Brown in Friday's paper. I have read reviews by Mark Rust before, and have found them to be intelligent and consciencious. But in this review, albeit complimentary, I 
DOONESBURV 
by Garry Trudeau 
I r»fT IJN-8EC41.JSE CJeRSTANO, MAN/6CMENT SIR. IJJH'I fYJitr nDr~ X!.'L­
17HE GJih<TER-""~;;7 
: 84CIS Jl)5'{ MER 70 PlAY. 
.; 71/XE 7/RJS? ., 

Student Players productions. Why weren't the designers (Jim Houle, set and costumes; Ray McGrath, lighting) overlooked? Finally, someone had to put these designs into reality. Although well exe­cuted, the technical aspect and the ~rsons involved in it (especially Reed King, Technical Director) were not even alluded to. 
I do not mean to tell Mart Jlow to write a review; indeed there are many approaches. Nor do I .mean to slight the performers, who were all individually mentioned. But I'm sure these performers, within the elation of being applauded both by the audiences and the reviewer, feel as I do--that their fellow artists, workers and friends who did as much ifnot more to mate the show what it was, should have been acknowledged in some way. 
· If reviewers could only under­stand the nature of theatrical study and though that makes the perfor­mance into the complete theatrical happening--perhaps they would not make such discouraging over­sights. I know Mark wrote his review with the best of intentions and I want him to continue voicing his criticisms. But I hope he, as well as all the Observer reviewers, will take the above into considera­tion for the future. 
• 

·Challenge 

and Promise 
Fr. OUver WUUams, C.S.C. 
Is it possible to bring :Christian values into the management of public and private institutions? I belie\le that it is, and that universities such as Notre Dame are the great hope of our nation as it searche~ for leaders who caii re-create a consensus on the values that ought to gutde our personal and common life. 
How is it that biblical values can find their way into our lives? Consider a text like Matthew 18: 21-356. This passage is a parable about the unlimited forgiveness of God and how we ought to t:J to i~tate th!'t forgiveness in our lives. It tells about a debtor who 1s forgtvea all his debts by his master; yet this same forgiven debtor himself goes out and ruthlessly collects from all who owe him. The mas~er, we.are told, grew angry with this behavior and decided to revoke hts forgtveness and to punish the insensitive debtor. . . . 
The parable cracks the logic of our ordinary way of VIewmg thmgs and speaks to us on two levels--the level of our personal life, as v.:e~l as the social life dimension. Not only does it urge us to be forgtvtng and compassionate personally; it offe!s us a vision of l~e in which all humankind are our brothers and s1sters and the world ts a place where compassion, forgiveness and generosity ought to prevail.. Hence this second way of looking at the p~rable .aiml at. t~e level ?f soct~ structures or institutional arrangements--It provtdes a vtston to gutde us m the goals, aims and processes of our institutions. . . 
•
I certainly do not want to say that the parable ts offenng us a model on how to run our business life where creditors are absolved from all debts. Rather the parable gives us a vision of life and spurs us to work for a place where compassion, generosity and forgiveness might be at home. ~t. urg~s us to labor for the common good as a community of persons hvmg tn harmony under the Lord. 
I recall a story from my own research on Christian values in the busin~ss world which illustrates how the values of a policy process may be qmte · alien to the values of those who implement and even participate in a!ld · form the process. A large multinational firm was consi.dering a move of 1ts home office from one city to another. The board of dtrectors was to take up this item as one among many others on a full agenda. After a long morning, and a working lunch, the board reconvened. to hea~ a presentation on the move of the home office. Charts and shdes det~iled how some money would be saved if the firm moved. Although the sa~mgs were not major, it was clear that costs would be somewhat lower if the office were moved to the new location. The board then voted on the move--they approved it without debate. 
Now the significant point in the example is that the process never even allowed for the interjection of human-religious values. Nobody. <isked about the workers displaced or laid off because of the move. The effects of the move on the local community were not considered. The very process of deciding such a move had no place to factor in such considera~ion.s. The bottom line--the profit and loss statement--was the. sole cntenon for decision making. Although each board member mtght be person.ally living Christian values, the policy process itself Jeft no way to constder human and religious values. 
Today we understand very clearly that social structures embody val1_1es. I think the vision of life which Jesus gives in the parables has somethmg to say about our social structures. While we cannot have heaven on earth, we can work toward a community of persons that freely chooses to be 
r compassionate, generous and idealistic. We must try to form structures that support and reinforce this vision of life, and we must challenge those social structures that suppress human dignity and values. 
The social structures of South Africa come to mind. There the blacks are systematically stripped of full human dignity by the social arr~ngements of the government. Many in power may be exemplars of vtrtue on a personal level, and yet they perpetuate a syste~ of apa~heid which dehumanizes, and makes a sham of values like forgaveness and compassion. 
The never-ending task of the Christian is to become more aware of how values are embodied in social structures and how processes can systematically preclude the airing of certain concerns. The gospel ~~Ips us keep that vision alive; it helps us see things with a new angle of vtsaon. 
It is good for us to take a fresh look atthe social structur~s we are part of, and perhaps responsible for. Are they actually servmg the com~on good...are they moving us toward a community where ~eople can bye together in friendship and mutual trust and where compasston, ~e!lerostty and forgiveness can flourish? Whether we are professor, admtntstrator, student business executive, laborer or cleric, all too often we adopt the standard argument for our particular interest group and be~ to mou!lt our case. The gospel asks for something more--afresh loot at what will advance the common good, and a vigorous pursuit of tbe values of tbe kingdom of God. 
'·
(Fr. Williams is assistaDt professor of theology. W"rtb Jolm llaadt. professor of maaagemeDt, be is co-author ofhiV.._, c..•0.'ts! B Ill Wdllaa, ReceDtly published by Harper A ltow.)
I 
---~-----------·-~---------------~-­
[ 
~ 



bows so far this year ically differing opinions mbers. Many did not hey expected; the Neil 
prime example. Some in the spectacles, others d, and some even have antics on stage. 
recent shows cannot be ae others. People who igner concert and the N got just what they aces in opinion concern content. There were no I predictability. This is rformances were dull; he kind of thing to be ;ent and then be tucked 

-------·------~------~------·----~-----­
a the observer Thursday, November 16, 1978 

• 
-------------. n -­
~­
Thursday, November 16, 1978 
the observer 
.... 
From 2.5 to 2 million 
Judge reduces Evans' bail in Thevis case 
HARTFORD, Conn. [AP]-Pale and quiet, Jeanette Evans was released on $2 million bail . yesterday after being indicted on charges of har­boring fugitive pornographer Mike Thevis. 
The 40-year-old. Ms. Evans, arrested Nov. 9 with Thevis at a 
_Bloomfield bank, had her bond reduced by U.S. Magistrate F. Owen Eagan from $2.5 million. She was released late in the afternoon into the custody of her mother, Mrs. Johnie Evans of Atlanta, on $300,000 surety. 
She could be imprisoned for up to 18 years and fined as much as ~25,000 if convicted of the charges tn the four-count indictment handed down by a federal grand jury yesterday, U.S. Attorney Richard Blumenthal said. 
Ms. Evans is accused of harbor­ing and concealing a person in­dicted with a felony and two counts of making false statements to the FBi about Thevis, Blumenthal said. 
Thevis, 46, was arrested when he tried to withdray $33,000 in cash from a Bloomfield State Bank account he had opened under an assumed name, authorities said. The Bank's president became sus­picious and alerted authorities, who arrested Ms. Evans as she waited outside the bank in a car containing $550,000 and several hand guns, officials said. 
Thevis was on the FBI's 10 most-wanted list when arrested. Federal indictments issued in Atlanta accuse Thevis of murder, arson and extortion in building a pornography empire. 
Shortly after 2 p.m. yesterday, at a brief bond hearing, Ms. Evans heard Blumenthal tell Eagan that a request for lessening her bond was ''fair and appropriate." Blumenthal said federal authorities had no objection to Ms. Evans' release. 
Clad in a soft rust colored three-piece pant suit, the Georgia real estate broker sat quietly with her lawyers. 
Legal paperwork and reclaiming her personal possessions from authorities detained her release until nearly 4:30. 
The slim brunette from Marietta, Ga., has known Thevis for at least 20 years, according to Blumenthal. 
Joining Ms. Evans' mother at the federal building yesterday were two women who identified them­
selves  as  Jackie  Henry  of  
Jacksonville,  Fla.  and  Bobbie  
Manera of Atlanta.  Mrs.  Henry  

said they were friends and business associates of Ms.· Evans. 
Embracing as she was released by authorities, the three women walked arm in arm down the corridor en route to the FBI office to collect Ms. Evans' belongings. 
"We're going to have a big home cooked dinner tonight. You feel like eating?" Ms. Manera said to 
Russia allows emigration offamily seeking medical aid for ill child 
MOSCOW [AP]-The Soviet Union yielded to American pressure and gave permission yesterday for Jessica Katz and her Jewish activ­~t parents to emigrate, ending their yearlong battle to obtain American medical treatment for the baby's rare digestive illness. 
The Katz family received a card in the morning mail informing them their exit visas were ready at the passport office. The family has until Dec 4 to leave for Israel, but probably will proceed directly to the United States. 
"We are so surprised, so sur­prised," Natalya Katz told the Associated Press by telephone. "We've waited so long, and then we almost didn't believe the letter was really here.'' 
The Katzes were one of 18 Soviet families that President Leonid I. Brezhnev promised U.S. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., would be allowed to emigrate. American Jewish organizations also have intervened on Jessica's behalf. 
Western diplomats here hailed the development as a "victory" for President Carter's human rights campaign. One source said it was "no coincidence" the visas here issued while an American Senate delegation was visiting Moscow to improve U.S.-Soviet relations. 
The Katz family's joy over the good news was mixed with appre­hension because Mrs. Katz is pregnant with the couple's second child and is expecting any day what may be a difficult birth. Doctors have told her the baby is in a "bad position," and they advised her not to travel until after the child is born. 
Noonan appears 
in concert at 
Saint Mary's 
Jeffrey Noonan of the Saint Mary's College music faculty, will present a guitar and lute concert tonight at 8 p.m. in the Little Theater of Moreau HalL The. public is invited to attend. 
Noonan will perform selections from the Renaissance era on a reproduction of a late 16th century lute. Included will be compositions by Vincenzo Capirola, Francesco da Milano, Jean-Baptiste Besard and John Dowland. 
The second half of the program, featuring music from the Baroque · and modern eras, will be played on the classical quitar. These select­ions will include music by Sylvius Leopold Weiss, Heitor Villa-Lobos and Federico Moreno-Torraba. 
Noonan is also on the faculties of Indiana University, Fort Wayne, and Andrews University, Berrien Springs. 
I think it's going to be very condition in infants that interferes 
difficult (to leave before the Soviet­with digestion. imposed deadline), "Mrs. Katz Soviet officials turned down all said. "They tell me I could have attempts by Jessica's parents to the baby any day now, maybe even take the baby to the· United States today." for medical treatment, even on a 
Katz said he plans to pick up the temporary basis. The Katzes had visas Friday but has not yet set a sourght unsuccessfully to emigrate date for the family's departure. He to Israel before Jessica's birth. will pay the passport office $2,100, The Russians maintained that a fee required by Soviet law for doctors here had the know-how to residents who decide to give up treat Jessica's illness, but her their citizenship. Once they leave family disagreed. They had special the Soviet Union, the family plans pre-digested food flown in from to stop in Vienna, Austria, on their Children's Hospital in Boston for way to Cambridge, Mass., to join her. Now the 20-pound child can 
Katz's mother and two brothers. supplement her diet with regular Jessica suffers from malabsorp­canned baby cereals also produced tion syndrome, a rare intestinal and sent from the United States. 
Mickey crosses America celebrating 50th birthday 
ABOARD THE MICKEY MOUSE SPECIAL [AP] -The young and young at heart are turning out at railroj.d stations across the country to help Mickey Mouse celebrate his 50th birthday with a whistle stop tour. 
The Gala week, organized by Walt Disney Productions, will wind up with a televisions special, "Mickey's SO," on NBC-TV Sun­day night. 
Meanwhile, Mickey Mouse rides cross-country by train, a trip that ends in New York City on Saturday, exactly SO years after he made his debut there in the cartoon "Steam­boat Willie." 
Along the way, Mickey will be guest of Honor at the Chicago International Film Festival and will 
attend a special White House party 
given by President Carter's 
daughter, Amy. · 
The trip began in Los Angeles on Monday night. Mickey· attracted 1,000 people at his first stop in Pasadena and drew good crowds at other stops in the California desert. 
About SO people showed up in the small community of Needles, Calif., at 2 a.m., and 20, including a baby 4 months old, were waiting at Kingman, Ariz,. at 3:15a.m. 
The "Mickey Mouse Special,'' as the train is called, is actually a regularly scheduled Amtrak train ­the Southwest Limited as far as Chicago,· other trains after that ­with a private car complete with open platform coupled onto the back. Regular passengers got sou­
venir  buttons  and  menus.  and  
complimentary  chesscake  in  the  
dining car.  

About a dozen Disney .staff people are riding in the private car, among them two short, slight young women who take turns disappearing when Mickey -who is about their size-takes center stage. 
At each stop a local band plays the Mickey Mouse theme song, and Mickey, less than five feet tall, bounces out to pat children on their heads and shake their hands. He puts his white gloves up to his mouth as if to say, "All this for me?" 
By yesterday, the train was oa the Great Plains, stopping iD Garden City and Hutchison, Kansas, then rolling into Kansas City, the boyhood horne of Walt Disney, before heading for Chicago. 
Along the way, there were glimpses of small-town America's affection for the character -for example, at Winslow, Ariz., the first stop after dawn on Tuesday. "I've already written a note to the principal," said Gail Riker, who with her husband, David, had brought their children, Michael, 10, and Thomas, 6, to Mickey. Plenty of other children were there, prompting Mrs. Riker to look around and say, "No, school is not going to start on time today." 
Band extends 
Kingdom 
of Jesus 
[continued from page 4J recorded two albums. "Fools Wis­
dom,'' and "Wild 't'all.·· both of 
y.·hich hit the f1arts a-; the #l 
Contcmporaty album in Great Bri· 
tain. 
Today Alwyn Wall is back in the 
States with the band that recorded 
"The Prize," acclaimed the top 
Christian <1lbum in the United 
Kingdom in 1977. 
Ah,:vn and the band are going to give Notre Dame a taste of the new Christian ..;ound perhaps a o>vme­what clearer view of Jesus. "The purpose of the band," says Alwyn "is to extend the Kingdom of Jesus." 
Ms. Evans. lawyers to enter a plea in Ms. 
None of the group would com­Evans behalf. ment on the case or say what Ms. She had been held prior to her Evans' immediate plans were. release at the women's correctional Authorities said they were due to facility in Niantic. Thevis remains return to Georgia later in the day. in custody at federal prison in 
Eagan set Nov. 22 as the date for Danbury. 
Seniors ... An MBA at NYU? 

Located in the Business and financial capital of the world, New York University has the nation's largest private Graduate School of Business Administration. Leslie Dukker can discuss the possibilities there for you on Friday, November 17 when she visits the campus. The Placement Office has program information and a sign-up schedttle. 
It's your future Consider the possibilities 
NYU 1a aa equal opportunity institution. 
Greyhound Ax· The cure for college blahs. 

It's a feeling that slowly descends upon you. The exams, the pop tests, the required reading, the hours at the library, the thesis­they won't go away. 
But you can. This weekend, take off, say hello to your friends, see the sights, have a great time. You'll arrive with money in your pocket because your Greyhound trip doesn't take that much out of it 
If you're feeling tired, depressed and exhausted, grab a Greyhound and split. It's a sure cure for the blahs. 
Greyhoul'ld Service 
To  One-way  Round-Trip Leave  Arrive  
Chicago  $ 8.10 •  $15.40  10:20 am  11:15 am  
Oeveland Pittsburgh Detroit Milwaukee  $22.05 $32.80 $17.15 . $13.50  $41.90 So.Z.3S $32.60 $15.65  7:00am 12:50 pm 11:35 am i:SO pm  1:50pm 11:20 pm 4:55pm 6:00pm  
Phone  


Call Z87-6541 
... 

Thursday, November 16, 1978 
10 the observer 

................ 

Kampiles denies document theft 
I TELL YOII rdSJJE~K£145, 


I 
! 
~ ~aculowa d?lng 1 £ 5 Clf&tn.g 1 £ 9t.n& Co£1:um.& J,&w&f.,y & §i{t£ 100 6nt&'t ~u.h.a.wa.ka., ffnd.ia.na. 46544 1 0% off with student 10  

HAIR CARET h CENTERE SCIENTIFIC HAIR CARE CENTER • BLOW STYliNG • PERMS • FACIALS • HAIR CUTTING & COLOR SPECIALISTS • MANICURES • ARCHES • TRICHOANAlYSIS OPJ:N: MON-SAT & THIJRS EVES8 OPERATORS $ 100 CENTE:R MISHAWAKA 256-1444  

l 
1 
l . 
I 
I ~ 
I 
' 
DO >t>U AlWAYS USE 711EM FOR TENNIS? NO ()(JOO 

HAMMOND, Ind. [AP]-William Kampiles, accused of espionage, yesterday denied that he stole a top-secret operating manual for a satellite surveillance system while he was employed with the CIA. 
Kampiles, 23, is accused of stealing the manual and selling it for $3,000 to a Russian official in Athens in February. 
The satellite system is capable of monitoring the close movement of foreign troops and equipment. 
Kampiles, who worked for the agency as a clerk from March to November 1977, told a U.S. District Court jury that he went to Athens 
last February and had four meet­
ings with a Soviet embassy official 
he identified as Michael. 
Kampiles told the jury that he 
lied to the Russian about his age, 
identity and employer, telling the 
man he still worked for the CIA and 
had access to top-secret infor­
mation. 
He said Michael apparently was fooled by his story and believed he . would work for the Russians. 
"He told me his superiors had 
agreed to pay $10,000 a trip to 
Athens if I carne with infor­
mation," Kampiles said. 
Earlier, Kampiles told how he 
tried to unsuccessfully to transer 
from his job as a CIA clerk to the 
covert operation section. 
. Kampiles was on the stand on his 
own behalf as the trial moved into 
its seventh day. He said he first 
was recruited by the CIA while 
attending Indiana University in 
1975 but did not begin work at CIA 
headquarters until March 1977. 
Kampiles said he read the manual for the KH11 satellite system three or four times as part of his official duties and was required to refer to . it on other occasions. 
Defense attorney Michael 
Monico read a letter to the jury 
S.U. SOCIAL COMMISSION 
PRESENTS 
'' ffiUSICA ORBIS '' 
A CLASSICAL ROCK BAND 
THURSDAY, Nov. 16, 1978 8:00-10:30 
* At the Nazz * 
,~ree concert) 
written just two weeks ago by Theodore Anderson, acting chief for the CIA special security center. The letter indicated 16 copies of the top-secret manual are missing. 
Kampiles, who quit the CIA, said superiors told him it would be at least the summer of 1978 before he could transfer from his job as a watch officer. 
Another defense witness, Katrena Cordoni, identified as Kampiles' aunt, said her nephew visited her in Athens last February. 
Speaking through an interpreter, she said she unpacked his suitcases and there was no copy of the manual in them. 
Kampiles' mother testified that he lived with her after he left the CIA and she also had not seen the manual, although she frequently went into his room. 
The government says Kampiles confessed to stealing the document and storing it in his bedroom at his mother's Chicago apartment until the trip to Greece. 
The defense contends that Kampiles was coerced into confes­sing. His attorneys say that he contacted Russian officials in Athens and tricked them into believing he would work for them. He thought that would convince the CIA to hire him as a double agent, the defense says. 
Rescued workman hopestrapped are found alive 
JOPLIN, Mo. (AP]·A workman rescued after being trapped for 3% days under the rubble of a nine­story hotel said yesterday he "knew somehow somebody would find me" and concentrated on "just staying alive." 
Alfred "Butch" Summers also told reporters that he still had hopes that two other missing workmen would be found alive in the ruins. 
"If they had the air supply that I had and they didn't give up hope or nothing, they might still be (alive)," he said from the hospital bed where .he is recuperating from a broken pelvis and three broken ribs. "I'm holding hopes and praying they can make it like I did' 
In a cool drizzle yesterday about a dozen workers pried through a mass of heavy chunks of concrete and steel beams, looking for the missing men. A hard hat, torch and pack of cigarettes were un­earthed, but Police Chief Larry removed all but the first two floors of the building by yesterday after­noon, and had not spotted signs of life in the rubble. 
Tennis  said  they  belonged  to  
Summers.  
Tennis  estimated  workers  had  

One of the missing workers, Frederick C. Coe Ill, 29, of Topeka, Kan., was cutting steel beams near Summers in the basement at the time of the accident. Another man, Thomas Edward Oakes, 45, of Jenks, Okl., was believed on the ground floor when the structure collapsed. 
Summers said that after the building fell, he heard no sounds from other ares of the wreckage. 
"I thought, this is it... I am gone," Summers said, but he added that he never gave up hope and frequently yelled for help. 
"I'm not a religious man, 
actually. But I figured if anyone could get me out alive, it had to be Jesus,'' he said. 
collegiate crossword 


air Styling 
4f.,!l
for men and women 
wholike · to look 
their best ... 277 •0734 
Yl mile north of campus, (U.S. 31 N) Across from Randall's Inn 
ACROSS 
1 -trial {1925) 7 Gem resembling a beetle 13 Writer of "Break­
fast at Tiffany's" 14 Mr. Mann 15 Certain teeth 16 Paints 18 Actor Warner ­19 "My Gal -" 21 The Beehive State 22 ----majesty 23 Ziegfeld workers 25 Surfeit 26 Explosive 27 Baby's footwear 29 A Kennedy 30 Ocean animal 
(2 wds.) 32 Dual-purpose 
couches 34 Recede 35 African antelope 36 Worked at the 
ci reus 40 Insect larvae 
45 Hermit  10 Plant branch  
47 Common prefix48 Actress Theda  ---­ 11  Recording-tape material  
50 Laminated rock 51 Statistics measure  12 Tardy 15 NFL team.  
52 Ballplayer Slaughter  ---­ 17 Loses hair 20 School subject  

53 ----Lawn, Illinois 23 Georgia product 
54 "West Side Story" 
character 55 Smaller 58 Repeating 60 Odd 61 Make invalid 62 Awards 63 Ground up by 
rubbing 
DOWN 
1 Type of triangle 2 Card game 3 Express an opinion 4 Body of water 5 Summer in Soi~sons 6 Class meeting 7 Bombarded 8 Prisoner 
1 C<>". 
24 Entrance to the ocean {2 wds.) 
27 Best-selling book 
28 Irish dramatist 
31 Pants part 
33 Bother 
36 Agreed 
37 Element #92 
38 French river 
39 Works with cattle 
40 Farm job 
41 Do hospital work 
42 Prepared for boxing 
43 French legislature 
46 Pasture sound 
49 Made inquiry 
51 French revolutionist 
54 Prefix for ton 
56 Shrub genus 
57 Electric ­
-
.-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I 
NOTICES To the en of Howard:
WANTED 
Hats and Ties and Great Guys Planning awedding or Dance? Music for What more could we ask for
Insecure freshman misses comfort of old
thlt special occasion, The Dennla Bamber -Your Badin Babes FL &C
friends. Drastically need ride near Wor­Quartat. 272-8266 
cester, Mass. for Thanksgiving, Call Lisa -----------------------­
Vote For Ms. Gorgoalty each week. Send
1282
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND nominees to: Studen Loans $20-$150, 1percent Interest The Adonis
OKAY • I know It's not even Thanbgjv­
due In 30 days, LaFortune Basement, C/0 WSND-AM
lng yet, but Idesperately need aride to at
11 :30-12:30 M-F P.O. BOX 532
'-1 01111ha [pl'lfenbty Uncoln] ....... 
N.D. IN 46556lei far Christmal YICitlon. The Cltctlll
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Weekly winner announced on the ldaRis
that my last exam Ia the flat ... H anyone
Executary, Inc. show (Thursday 9-11 p.m.)
Ia "going my way" around IIIII HIM
Professional Typing Service 
please Clll [SMC] 5427 (Miry Pat] I'H pay
12 type styles Looking for a Job? If you're 16 or over,
and drive If need be.
$1/page minimum female, and look like Dolly Parton, you're 
Call 232-()898 hired! See me Immediately.
Need 4 GA Southern Cal. tickets. Clll
"When you want the Best" Doc-North Dining Hall
John at 1991 
N.D. LEGAL SERVICES If you like jumping on the bed, come
Partlme people needed to sell advertising
Call 283-n95 jump on mine. It's my 32nd birthday
out of regional offices of nationwide
10 a.m.-4 p.m. today.
publishing firm. Entry level position. 
Doc-North Dining Hall
Call Mr. Ford 272-3171
Gay Students of Notre Dame/Saint 
Mary's: Gay Information write: P.O. Box Free Puppy. Call 272-8057 after 6
ICWEAWA HIVA -Summer/full time.
206 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. 
Doc:
All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses
Candy, small prizes and trinkets are If you can't get anyone to answer you ad,
paid, sightseeing. Free info -Write:
needed as prizes to give away at the that last penonal could solve all your
International Job Center, Box 4490-14,
carnival rec When the retarded children problems. Hope you have a pleasant
Berkeley, CA 94704
win at one of the many carnival games.  If  birthday anyway.  
you have any items that could be donated for prizes to Logan, please call Mike at 1371 or Sue at 41-4832  Need ride to Buffalo, N.Y. area Turkey-Day Break. Call Sue 4-5411  tor  Announcing the  me  
Attention all Logan volunteers and Inter­ested students. the 2nd annula carnival  Need ride close to bronx for Thanksgiving Call Irene 6733  "Why I Love Adonis" Thanksgiving Extravaganza. To enter you:  
rec Is to be held this Saturday, Nov 18th, from 9:00 to 11:30 a.m. Lots of help is needed setting up the booths and games for the carnival. set-up parties for  Need ride back for two from Louisville, Ky. area, can leave anytime Sunday. Call Dave 1146  1) Must be devotee of Adonis 2] Must be Human 3) Must be Female (sorry guys) 'niar xewRUCW/original entry will escort  
carnival rec will be held Thursday and Friday night at 6:30 p.m. at Logan Center. Come and bring a friend. In  Wanted: ride to Long Island/Metro NY area for Thanksgiving. Share Driving, $.  Adonis to Thanksgiving Dinner at res­taurant of her choice! Don't be aturkey. Deadline is Sat Nov. 18 

Call Brian 8671
addition, clowns and jugglers are desper-• Send card/brief letter to ately needed for the carnival Saturday at The Adonis
Need ride to Chicago on Tues. Nov. 21 ­
Logan. If you have a clown costume CO WSND-AM
Call Mike 8856
and/or can juggle, please call Mike at PO Box 532 1371 or Sue at 41-4832 Notre Dame, IN 46556
To Trade: Manual typewriter plus Cllh for electric. Mike 232-9750 
Bart, FOR RENT We miss you on Tuesday nights. Come
First Bank has Immediate openings for 
Back!
partlme and fulltime proof operators.
FOR RENT 2nd SEMESTER OR 
Afternoon and evening hours available.
LONGER; 3bedroom house on beautiful­FOOBAR IS COMING! BEWARE HEL­
No experience necessary. Will Train. Call
ly wooded 1.4 acres with trout stream; mets.
First Bank & Trust Company for 
gas heat; fireplaces; can be rented 
Appointment 236-2605. An Equal Oppor­
furnished or unfurnished. call 7343 or Beth LaRorea, Get well soon
tunity Employer.
684-6620 Avatar,
SOMEBODY HELP MEl I miss you. Happy Thanksgiving In the
I need a ride to the etrolt area for
LOST& FOUND Alps.
Thanksgiving Break! will share expenses. 
Elinor
Call Teri 41-4444.
MISSING -class ring Initials TCK-80. Found missing Sunday. Graduation Adorable kitten needs home. Found near
Needed: Ride to/from Kansas City for 
present from parents. Please call Tim at e~mpus view apta. 1cant't kklp lt. Do yeu
Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call
1850 or 1ns-no questions asked -Yhank want It? Call 272-7445 •
Chris 8583
·­
you If I don't get USC Tix I'll sleep In the
Proof R11der: Experienced. Full time,
Found: Yellow tiger kitten about 8 weeks streets on break -Mlck 1763
must have good background In techniCII
old. Found Friday (pm) between Stadium 
bulltUna, publications and full knowledge
& ACC parking lot. Cafl 234-4692 or Don't forget the Ad. Building Munch
of proof reader's 1111rb. Call Jim COOk,
232-6509 -Melvin
Ave Marla PJ'8SI, Notre Dime. 283-7116 
LOST Tonight the APOLLO will send his bolts
Need Ride to ClnclnnatU for Thanksgiv­
Gold Cross Pen with name. call 3558 of news down from Mount Olympus. 10
Ing Nov. 21 Call Bob 1797 
p.m. on the Adonis Show WSND 640 LOST:Multicolored glasscase with glas­
Need Riders: l.l.-vicinity. Leave 11/21 
ses Inside. Reward Call Cindy 7'¥J7 Ann,
return 11127. Billy -289-7690 
Find any good records In your room Lost: Eye glasses-pale peach frames In lately? -­
Bassist needed for serious Jazz Rock
red leather case -Reward. 232-2839. M.K. wants to know
Group. Call Greg 1606 
Found: One sum of money found this past MEO,
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio This 
weekend and another sum of money I heard that Housing has approved
weekend. Call Ellen 4-1-4394 
found on Monday (11-13). Call 7253 to your room change. The tunnel should be identify. nice and cozy. There ar~ lots of pipes to
Help/ Friends need USC Tix. Call Mike 
hang yourself from.
at 3178 
The Window Tappers 
Need 4th roomate -Female. Campus 
K.K.,
FOR SALE View Apts. Call 233-6207 
We're in love. Why? 
G. and B.E.
For Sale: 2 GA USC tickets. call 284-5183 Desperate for 1 USC ticket in the N D section. Homesick sister in San Jose 
I DETEST DISCO!
For Sale -Hiking Boots Mens size 7. Wants to see me over Thanksgiving. Call . 
I DETEST DISCO!
Excellent Condition $35. 284-5121 1942 please 
I DETEST DISCO! I DETEST DISCOCasperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., 
I DETEST DISCO!
Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general 
(SORT OF.... ) 
shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683­Scoop
2888 PERSONALS 
Did you know that the value oJ the
For Sale: 73 Gran Torino, good shape, Mikey-chemicals in the human body, " 
snow tire 233-5282 1DO miss your cricket! Get Skinny!!! 
composed, are with a mere $3.16!
Who else? 
(unfortunately, it would cost $4.50 to
For Sale: 2 season student basketball decompose the Human body..... I have
tickets -1bleacher, 1 padded 1475 Toledo Club meeting: 6:30 Monday Nov 
the feeling that afew people are willing to20, second Floor Lafortune pay the trice for me, though ... ) For Sale: 2 GA tickets each to Georgia 
Scoop
Tech and USC call John at 7n1 Scoop, 
Everyone Loves your personals! For Sale: Two GA tickets to every NO See Scoop, home basketball game. Best offer -call MARGIE, I even typed all your penonals 1159 YOU MUST NOT HAVE COUNTED ALL me 
THE VOTES ON THE SCOOP SULLIVAN PERSONAL POLL. YOU GET A NAY, Paddlefish Happy Hour -Friday at HAY FROM THIS PARTY. Nickle's -3-6 $1.50 pitchers. 
Thursday, November 16, 1978 
the observer 11 
Campus conserves energy by decreasing consumption 
[continued from page 3) 
''Turning of electrical appliances crease of 29,000 kilowatt hours. that are not in use is not only Farley was next with an increase of common sense, but it saves you 13,000. money. You may only save fiveThe reason for this marked cents, but when you get five cents 
difference in donn energy consum­from everyone at Notre Dame, "it ption is basic, according to Riehle. begins to add up," he stated. The director explained, "The dif­
ference in consumptions is simply dependent on the concern given to Irish swimmers energy conservation in each donn by the students and the hall staffs. 
'look forward' 
Some dorms have made a concen­trated effort to save, others have 
not." to season The biggest energy saving build­•
ing on campus this year is the by MJke Dorclak Niewland Science building which Sports W rlter claims a savings of over 956,000 hours. Riehle credited Niewland's sharp reduction to the shutting off For the Notre Dame swim team, of the heating and air conditioning it will prove to be an exciting year, systems when the building is in as the Irish swimmers take to the minimum use. water for the 1978-79 season. 
After graduating nine seniorsRiehle also pointed out that the from last year's team, and losing adorms are currently struggling few more to such activities as thetoward the 20 percent reduction Foreign Study Program, the swimgoal and he urged students to newcooperate in the attempt to reach team is faced with many 
challenges;the mark. 
"Presently, we are holding our "For one thing," head coach own against the 20 percent goal, Dennis Stark said, "We lost many but I cannot emphasize enough the of our top swimmers last year, and need for student and faculty coop­as a result, there are many be eration,'' Riehle said. spots to fill. However, it will 
certainly be an interesting year." 

Scoop, I don't detest your Whole body. You are a very good night editor and I'm sure there are other unique and wonderful qualities webbed into your personality. But Scoop, if the human body is only worth $3.16 than how much would the writing hand of one night editor? I'll offer my check from 
the  Oblerver.  Everybody knows how  
much that's wo rth.  
me  

Margie & Co-
Well, if It wasn't for my putting in date boxes and Molarity and Harrasslng you guys, you'd never have gotten out so early Tuesday nlte. (and you didn't even put me In the staff Box -SOB!) 
Scoop 
The Adventures of aBoring Person 
Chapter Two 
When the alarm's drone had success­fully been ceased, he congratulated himself for helping cut down the world's noise pollution. It's abrasive squeal had schocked him severely, however, and he realized that he had forgotten his name. Then he checked to see If the shock was electrical. 
(To be continued( 
The Adventures of aBoring Person 
Chapter Three 
Becoming disturbed that his name had slipped his mind, he walked on his hands acros~the floor to his trousers, where his wallet lay concealed. He hoped that he might find some ID to push his slipped mind back into position, but the wallet contained only wild rice pilaf. 
To be continued) 
Chiames, If y(IU still read the personals here's one for you: Hope everything is going your way and If you're ever In the area give me a call. 
with love 
me 
p.s. I'll be back from break Sat. at 5. If you're around, I hope you'll stop by 
Need USC tickets. Call 4-1-4362, VIckie 
Qualified swimming instructor can give 
private lessons  on  capus  to  children,  
faculty,  students.  Call  Mary  Jane  
4-1-5279  

To help provide this excitement will be returning monogram win­ners Ron Alitto and David Campbell in the distance freestyle. Also returning is butterflier Roderick McLaughlin, and John Komora, who last year established varsity records in the 500-yard and 1000-yard freestyle events, as well as in the 200-yard and 400-yard individual medley. Rounding out this returning group will be captain John Nolan who specializes in the butterfly and breaststroke. 
Some new faces on the squad include junior college transfer Frank Piszkin (butterfly), sopho­more Donald LaPJatney (back­stroke), and freshmen John Willamowski, Patrick McDivitt, and Donald Casey, who will bid for starting positions. 
Although the swimming team is a non-scholarship program, it is mov­ing ahead with much optimism. "Right now we are looking foward to the season," Stark said. "Let's hope all this enthusiasm con­tinues." 
Rebounding after last year's 5-S record with two cancelled meets because of snow, this year's sche­dule proves to be challenging. Some of the tougher meets this season will include Illinois St., Bradley, and Western Michigan. The season will be highlighted with a trip to Monmouth College in New Jersey, the farthest the team has ever traveled in its history. 
Keep in mind the Jan. 26-27 swim meets, since the team has been snowed out on these dates two years in a row. With a little less snow and a little bit of luck, the Irish should be able to tackle their schedule, beginning with the Notre Dame invitational Relays on Fri­day, Dec. 1. The meet is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. at the Rock, with Valparaiso, Toledo, and Wabash participating. 
Commenting on the season, Stark admits it's hard to speculate. But this year was marked with a large turnout, and the team is one of the biggest squads in years. So with all the added interest and enthusiasm, the swim team is on its way to an encouraging year. 
When asked to predict how his team will do, Stark remarked, "One year, I went out on a limb and told how good my team was and predicted how· good it would do. It turned out to be a losing season." 
In other words, Stark, like many other coaches, would rather just sit back and let the Irish determinat­ion, skill, and pride in athletics speak for itself. 

t 
\ 
\ I \ 
l \ 
t 
I 
f 
I 

r 
~ 
'l 

Thursday, November 16, 1978 
12 the observer 
ND matmen open season Saturday 
By IMark Hannuksela Sports Writer 
''We are a young and inexper­ienced squad, and we've still got a lot of learning to do but the guys are all enthusiastic about the season, and eager to get started. 
We should lhave an interesting season." That's probably the best way that Coach Raymond Sepeta could sum up the 1978-79 season for the Notre Dame wrestling team. 
With only five lettermen return­ing from last year's team, Sepeta's squad will carry youth as its-middle name. Seniors--Bob Golic and George Gedney, and juniors Mike Wilda, Chris Favo, and Dave DiSabito will provide the leader­ship for this year's team. The. remaining members have had little· or no experience in -varsity wrest­ling matches. These are the guys who will provide the ''interest'' for Sepeta. 
''This will be a year of the young people," said Sepeta, "and it will be a challenge for us. I'm not discouraged by our lack of exper­ience. In fact, I have been encouraged by the good signs that I've seen so far in practice. I think that we will get the most out of the talents that each of our men possess." I 
, The Irish will open their seaso9 this weekend, when they travel to gast Lansing for the Michigan S'tate Tournament. In addition to t~e Spartans, the team will run up against the strengths of Central Michigan, Western Michigan, the University of Toledo, Indiana State, Grand Valley, and Grand Rapids Jurtior College. Notre Dame (the wrestlers, that is), will be without the services of Bob Golic, who will be out chasing running backs around a football field in Atlanta. 
The first home match for the Irish will take place on Tuesday, Dec. 12, when the Indiana Univer­sity Hoosiers invade the ACC. According to Sepeta, the Hoosiers outclassed his team last year, but he feels that a good strong per­formance by this year's team will give IU all it can handle. 
Other big events for the team this year will include a trip to Columbus to take on Ohi_o State University, and a home date with arch-rival John Carroll University. Notre Dame will also host the NCAA Midwest Regional this year. 
California Polytechnic. the Univer­The Irish wrestlers will be sity of Nevade at Las Vegas, and in East Lansing. the Air Force Academy are among the many teams that will take part ~~~~h~; hti~u:~:~~e~~ toB%o~~~~;~~ in this tournament. at least three varsity matches 
From there, the Irish will hope to throughout the course of , this qualify a few individuals for the 
season, Sepeta hopes to be able to 
NCAA finals. Last year, Golic, qualify a few more than those DeSabito, and Gedney all qualified three, come spring. 

Dillon,·Off-campus to vie for interha/1 championship 
by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
Dillon Hall and Off-campus posted interhall football victories last night at Cartier Field, enabling those two squads to gain playoff berths for the post-season play which begins Sunday afternoon. 
Dillon defeated Morrissey, 8-0, in a defensive struggle of the top two teams in the South Quad division. Both squads boasted 3-0 marks coming into the final regular season affair, with the winner assured of a playoff spot. 
The game's lone score was set up by a turnover, one of many that plagued both teams on an ice-cold slippery astra-turf surface. Mor­rissey, taking over possession after John Komora's punt rolled dead at the Morrissey 4-yard line, imme­diately turned the ball back over to Dillon as quarterback Jim Byrne never quite made the handoff to he intended back. 
Dillon tackle Rom Staskel poun­ced on the loose pigskin at the Morrissey t~o yard line, from where halfback Dana Crowley carried it home.on the first play of the second quarter. It was the first tirn,e all season Morrisey had been scored upon. 
It was all Dillon needed, as the Big Red defense thwarted any subsequent Morriseyattemptto get 
on the scoreboard. Byrned who 
threw two key intercpetions in the 
second half, was unable to direct 
his ball club past the Dillon 42-yard .line at any time in the contest. 
"Everybody-played well," 
claimed Dillon coach Dick Hughes. 
"They did what we expected of 
them.'~. 
"I guess you can say we played with intensity," said Hughes' co­hort, Steve Berceau. "Morrissey was really~ tough, though. They deserve a lot of credit." 
"Our defense w.as really tough," added Berceau. "We probably should have had at least one more score. Every time we were expect­ing them to pass, they pretty much did--and we were ready for the interception most of the time.'' 
Berceau hinted that this contest 
was what the doctor ordered for 
preparing for playoff competition. 
"I think this could have been the toughest opponent we have seen or will see this year" he said. "I hope the North Quad teams aren't as tough. I don't think they are." 
Whether or not that comment includes the Off-campus squad matters little to the non-dormitory team. By defeating Holy Cross, 6-0, Off-campus finished its regular slate with a 3-1 mark, second to St. Ed's in the· Central Quad division. 

competing in the Michigan State tournament this weel<end 
==Mark 
Perry:::::::::::==========================:======:=======:::::::::=======:=======:=:=:=:=====================================:=: 
Ram bII.n' 

So the Notre Dame soccer team didn't make the playoffs! Well, Excuuuuuusssse meeeeeeeeee! 1 
Normally a team entering their second varsity season would not set their goals too high. But the Notre Dame soccer team which achieved varsity status just last year, aimed for the big time this year. 
The Irish boaters hoped to reach the NCAA playoffs this year, a sizable task for even the most experienced team. The season began with a string of victories, as the Irish won 10 straight. This built their winning streak over two seasons to 26 in a row--tops in the nation at that time. 
The season's first disappointment came in Goshen, as the Irish lost to the defending NAIA champions, 2-1. Then in their most important game of the year, they were trounced by Indiana University, the number one team in the country, 7-1. A loss to Western Michigan later in the year assured the Irish that they would be staying home during the playoffs. 
Although the Irish were not successful in their aim for this seaSOf\, coach Rich Hunter's squad can not be disappointed with their play this year, as they made several positive steps toward 
. improving their program and gaining the recognition needed to make the playoffs. 
"It is easy to see. the swift advancements we have made this season," said Hunter. "Although we did not receive the NCAA bid as we. hoped, it was still a rewarding season." 
''We defeated some highly regarded teams along the way. which will give us confidence in the future," added Hunter, "and we learned from our defeats what our shortcomings are. Even though we were easily defeated by Indiana, that was a valuable game for us because it shows that we still have a long way to go--it gives us some goal to work toward." 
Although the Indiana game was a big disappointment for the team, it is hard to say anything negative about the rest of the season. The Irish dominated most of their opponents, outscoring them 1 t 6-32 for the season, including lofty scores like 12-0 and 13-1. 
But more importantly, the players on the teym are beginnjng to build a positive attitude about their ability and about their hopes for the future. 
"Having the kind of record we do really says a lot about the team," said Ted Carnevale, one of the co-captains for this year's squad. "Even though we did lose some games, we had an outstanding year.'' · 
"With Rich as coach, we can only go up," continued Carnevale. "Rich has high standards, and the rest of the team wants to play some better competition.'' 
Jim Rice, another co-captain, agrees that the Irish have advanced a lot in his four years. "When I started here, our teams really werep't that good," Rice said. "Now we have the confidence and ability to beat most of the teams in our area, and we should be able to compete with some of the bigger schools in a few years.'' 
Athough Carnevale, Rice, Roman Klos, Randy Wittry, Bill Sullivan, and Terry Finnegan have finished their careers at Notre Dame, the Irish have a sound foundation on which to build their program. 
Sophomore Kevin Lovejoy, who came off the inter-hall soccer field last year to become the leading scorer for the Irish this year, will continue to provide punch for the team. 
Also returning will be Jim Sabitus, the only junior co-
captain, one of the best ball-handlers on the team, goalie Brian Cullater, fullback Tom Luetke hans, forwards Bill Ralph, Bill Wetterer, Mike Mai, and a host of other talented players who will become better with experience. 
I followed the soccer team for most of this season, and although there were a few tough losses on the way, I can say that the future of Notre Dame soccer is bright. Fan support was outstanding this year, and hopefully it will continue, even though there may be some seasons with few wins. With an expanding program like Notre Dame's, the team will be playing teams which may be better than ever in the next few years. 
But if the University can continue to bring in good players without scholarships, and if the program continues to grow (with the possibility of scholarships in the near future,) we may be seeing another national champion in the next few years. 
Interhall rules called for the second-place team with the best winning percentage to claim the wild card spot. Since both Off-cam­pus and M<Jrrissey thus finished with the same marks as number two teams within their respective divisions, scoring differential was used as the criterion to determine the playoff bound squad. 
Since Off-campus defeated its opponents by a combined margin of 43 points, compared to 37 points for coach Dan Buckley's Morrissey squad, it will take part in the semi-finals, which begin at l p.m. Sunday at Cartier. 
The Off-campus squad got all the scoring it needed on the last play of the first quarter against the Hogs of Holy Cross. From the oppo­nent's 12-yard line, 0-C signal caller Dave Murphy kept on a quarterback draw and scampered up the middle for the necessary six. 
The final third quarter resulted in a back-and-forth defensive dual, with neither team able to mount much of a drive in. the 30-degree weather. 
Sunday in semi-final action, three-time champion Keenan will meet St. Ed's while Dillon and Off-campus meet to determine who plays in the championship game after school resumes from the holiday sabbatical. 
