
Danehy: part of staff has no retirement age 
by Joan Fremeau Copy Editor 
"Notre Dame does not have a policy of mandatory retirement at 65 for at least one-third of its faculty," according to James P. Danehy, professor emeritus of organic chemistry. 
In his speech, "Retirement in Academe: Changing Perspectives," yesterday in Haggar Hall auditorium, Danehy told a small audience that out of 81 tenured faculty members who passed their 65th birthday in the past ten years, ''27 of them were permitted to continue in full-time employment, from one to six years." 
In the past few years, age discrimination has become an important issue, he said. Recently, "the notion of termination of employment based on age alone has alone been challenged as a form of discrimina­tion." 
Using Notre Dame's retirement policy as a "typical" one for American colleges and universities, Danehy outlined the present policy and suggested changes. 
"Tenure," he quoted from the Faculty Handbook, ''is permanence of appoint­ment. Its purpose is the protection of academic freedom." It is granted to only those faculty members holding positions other than Instructor, and may only be revoked for "serious cause," he noted. 
Yet, the handbook states that faculty members "ordinarily" retire upon reach­ing their 65th birthday and become emeritus. They may retain their positions on a year to year basis upon the reappointment by the department's Com­
[continued on page 11] 

Well, it sure beats walking--if they'd only get these paths cleafedl [photo by ~ug Christian] · 
•""J"""·"''"·':... -,:"T.. ·rw-:o. 
Paczesny resigns; will leave NO 
Bro. Just Paczesny, vice president for Student Affairs at Notre Dame since 1974, will resign, effective June 30, to accept a position in the Office of Education of the Diocese of Phoenix, AZ. · 
In receiving Paczesny's resignation, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University presi­dent noted that Notre Dame was "in his debt for the long hours and wonderful service given in the several areas of student affairs." 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Tuesday, February 14, 1978 Vol. XII, No. 82 
/ 
.) 

In joining the Phoenix Diocese, headed by Bishop James Rausch, Paczestiy will be returning to an area of Catholic educational administration in which he served 20 years before joining the Student Affairs staff at the University as director of student services in 1973. He was appointed vice president the following year. 
From 1949 to 1968, he taught and held various administration positions in Catholic high schools in lllinois, California, Indiana and Wisconsin. He was assistant superin­tendent of Chicago Archdiocesean schools from 1968 to 1970, and was principal of Marquette High School in Michigan City, In, for three years before coming to Notre Dame. 
BRO. JUST PACZESNY 

r: :::.· 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -Dangerously dwindling stockpiles of coal forced Indiana yesterday to order utilities to cut power 15 percent to residences and 25 percent to businesses when supplies dip below 40 days. 
In issuing the order, the Public Service Commission (PSC) said the state's largest utility, Public Service Indiana (PSI), al­ready is at that level and others could be there by the end of the week. 
The plan, which could trigger wide­spread job layoffs, gets stricter as coal supplies shrink during the United Mine workers strike. When stockpiles drop to 30 days, the cutbacks would be 25 percent for residences and 50 percent for businesses and industries. 
Rotating blackouts of up to two hours also are allowed at the 40-day level, but PSC Chairman Larry J. Wall ace said that is unlikely until stockpiles drop to 30 days. 
Wallace said the cutbacks would be effective immediately for Public Service Indiana, the state's largest electric utility, serving 408,000 persons in 69 counties . However, David Vincent, a spokesman for tlla.tliility , said PSI will delay imposing the cutbacks because it actually has an average 42-day supply. 
Wallace said Southern Indiana Gas & Electric Co., serving 92,00 persons around Evansville in the southwestern comer of the state, also is affected immediately. 
William Sorrells, director of the Indiana Energy Office said Indianapolis Power & Light Co. andllndiana & Michigan Electric 
. ~ 

Calling his time at Notre Dame "very enjoyable," Paczesny commented, "A lot of good things have happened in those five years." He added that he would be returning to the pursuit of his education interests in the areas of secondary schools and diocesan-level activities. 
According to Paczesny, the choice of a new vice president for Student Affairs will be made by Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees. . 
'Alot of good things !, ~ have happened... ' l 
\ 
1 


Co. could be hit later this week. I & M, the state's second largest electric company, serves 351,000 persons, including the cities of Fort Wayne, South Bend, Muncie and Elkhart. 
The PSI service area includes the cities of Terre Haute, Bloomington, Lafayette, Kokomo and Columbus. The utility also serves Indiana University, Purdue Univers­ity and Indiana State University, which could be forced to postpone major college basketball games under the PSC order. 
Wallace said the Indianapolis utility already is down to a 40-day supply but was given until Friday to either obtain permis­sion to burn low-sulfur coal reserves or implement the cutbacks. Burning the ~ reserves, which requires approval of .the J 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, ;1 would stretch the supply seven to 10 days in the state's largest city. Wallace said 11 any utility customer ignoring the curtail-! ment orderfor more than seven days would .l face possible service disconnections. 4 Industries could face a penalty of 10 cents t per kilowatt hour for non-compliance. ~ 
There were no monetary penalties for ,i 
residential or Sl}lall commercial users, but }···.Wallace said that could come later. ] The commission ordered immediate 
curtailment of outdoor lighting and lighting .J'J used for .show windows, displays, parking ~ lots and advertising, parking lots and ; 
advertising, except for a minimum needed ~~ for safety. Commercial facilities open after '~ dark will be allowed only a singleJ· 
. [continued on page 9] 

. .~ ~ .. ~ '•·-~·~-....... 

Tuesday, February 14, 1978 

2 the observer __
News Briefs____..........._. 
t==============================World Beirut cease-.fire uneasy BEIRUT, Lebanon -Many jittery residents of East Beirut stayed inside or fled to mountain havens Sunday, fearing a renewal of last week's clashes between Syrian soldiers and right-wing Christians in the Lebanese army. But the cease-fire declared two days ago appeared to be holding. Nazis honor war criminal SOLTAU, West Germany • Nazi salutes by several mourners marked the burial yesterday of convicted war criminal Herbert Kappler in the north German town where he died of cancer after fleeing an Italian prison hospital. At least four men raised their right arms in the banned gesture as they filed past Kappler's grave. Police estimated 100 people filled a cemetery chapel for the funeral. At least another 100 stood outside on the snowy grounds, listening to the service over loudspeakers. ============================== National Satellite power source urged WASHINGTON • The scientist who first proposed solar-powered satellites called yesterday for an international effort to construct 112 satellites to beam solar energy to an energy hungry world by the year 2025. Dr. Peter E. Glaser told the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science that the solar power satellite SPS represents one of the most promising power generation options that could help meet global energy demands. 1069 is not a name MJNNEAPOLIS · Michael Dangler lost his bid to have his name changed to the number "I069" yesterday, when a judge said the idea was "an offense to basic human dignity and inherently totalitarian." Dengler, a former social studies teacher from Fargo, N.D.• said the number symbolized his interrelationship with society and reflected his personal and philosophical identity.  
Weather There is a 30 perceut chance of snow today. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight 10 to 15. Highs today and tomorrow · upper 20's. On Campus Today_---.,J /,:40 -8 a.m. am this morning, mike ridenour and dave beno on wednesday, wsnd b40 on your dial 12:15 p.m. mass celebrated by fr_ griffin, Iafortune ballroom 3:30p.m. computing center "introduction to job control language" continues feb. 16 & 20, 114 ccmb, no charge 4 p.m. swimming nd vs. bowling green home 4:30 p.m. lecture "biological controls of aquatic vegetation" by dr. carol a. lembi, purdue univ., sponsored by bio. dept., 278· galvin aud. 6:30p.m. ireland program orientation meeting, rm 238 madeleva hall 7 p.m. film series "it happened one night," sponsored by nd/smc theatre little theatre 7 p.m. meeting off campus commission student govern­ment board room roemer, ungashick 7:15p.m. liturgy & music seminar "introduction & euchar­istic" carroll hall, smc 7:30p.m. eucharist charismatic eucharist log chapel, open 8 p.m. sophomore literary festival,george macbeth, poet & 1 novelist, major reading, rnem. lib aud.  
*The Observer Night Editor: Steve Odland Asst. Nigh t Editor: Sherry Mummert layout Staff: "Scoop" Sulli­van, Peggy Miller, Willie Fos­ter, Kent Schmidt Editorial layout: Martha Fan­ning Sports layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue, Scribner, Tricia Meehan, Lisa DiValerio  need posters in a hurry? . .I. . . ~ •nsty-pr•nls 
Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Diane Wilson, Bob Varettoni Ad layout: Beth Cutter PJ-,otographer: Doug Christiar _____,.._....,_...,..wit.. . ­ the wiz of the printfntbiz! 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 n. main Downtown So,Bend 289-6917, .N~x·_ tu--............... --.-----.. ­.......'!" - 


Coal strike causes cut backs 
JennHer Disabato gan, Student Body President, Mary 
Rukavina, and Energy Committee 
Chairman Joseph Bellina. 
In response to the energy emer-The letter states Gov. Bowen's gency resulting from the con-request for a 25 percent cut back in tinuing United Coal Miners strike, the use of electricitY, warning the Saint Mary's is putting voluntary imposition of involuntary cut backs energy cut backs into effect im-if voluntary reductions prove un­mediately. successful. As a result, lighting is 
All students and faculty members being reduced in hall-ways, tern­have received a newsletter outlin-peratures are being lowered, and ing the details of the cut backs from buildings are being closed earlier College President John M. Dug-in the evening. 
NLRB postponement disturbs Teamsters 
by Mlke Ridenour . Staff reporter 
The National Labor Relations Board's (NLRB) hearing, concern­ing a charge by Teamsters Local 364 of unfair labor practices against Notre Dame, has been postponed from Feb. 15 to April 10. 
According to an attorney repres­enting the Teamsters, the NLRB and the University had both agreed to postpone the hearing. Mike Lawrence, assistant business re­presentative for Teamsters Local 
364 , said he wasn't sure of the reasons for the postponement. Lawrence stated that the Team­sters wanted the hearing to pro-
Thomas awarded fellowship 
An assistant professor of phil­osophy at Notre Dame has been awarded a Mellon Facu:ty Fellow­ship for 1978-79 at Harvard U niver­sity. 
Larry Thomas. a specialist in ethics and social philosophy, will investigate ways in which various psychological theories provide con­straints for moral theories, and will teach a seminar on Moral psych­ology, focusing on the works of Plato, Freud, White, Kohlberg, and Rawls. · 
The Mellon fellowships are a­warded annually to young scholar­teachers to provide an opportunity for maximal development early in their professional careers. Thomas will resume his teaching in the area of ethics and philosophy of the law at NO in 1979-80. 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frldey except during exem end vecetlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Saint Mery's College. Subscrlptlont may be purdtesecl for S20 per yeer CS 1o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlena 46556. Second cte11 postage paid, Notre Deme, Indiana, 46556 . . The Observer Is e member of the Allocletecl Prell. All repro­
duction rights 1re reserved. 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 


COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 

COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon· Sat 8 to 6 

the Distille1 Y. 
...... #'_._ ·--............. 

__:;:::"_ ~.:..;,_._·::.'!1" ~­
ceed without delay. "The Union 
disapproves that the hearing had 
been postponed," Lawrence re­
marked. 
Phillip Faccenda, general counsel for Notre Dame, stated that the University was ready for the hear­ing. "Nobody could believe that we were anxious to get it over with. The NLRB thought we were not going to be ready so they were caught with their shirts off,'' Faccenda said. 
Thomas Mason, vice president for Business Affairs, agreed with Fac­cenda's comments. Mason added that the NLRB had scheduled the hearing abnormally early and ap­parently a hearing officer was unavailable. Mason said, "We told our attorneys that under no cir­cumstances should there be a delay. We were shocked that the NLRB wanted a postponement.'' 
"The main idea is to get the students energy concious so that if our energy supply is cut 25 percent we can cope with the reduction more easily," Bellina stated. In order to measure substantial de­creases in energy reduction, Bel­lina said he is beginning to collect data on the amount of energy used. "Right now, heating is not a problem because we have enough coal," he asserted. "The problem is in the consumption of electrical energy." 
SMC Student Government is wag­ing a publicity campaign beginning this week to extend awareness of the situation to the entire campus community. Rukavina explained, "we're going to try to get everyone concerned through posters, an­nouncements in the dining hall, and individual reminder cards dis­tributed to every student." 
Rukavina added that an important tactic will be word-of-mouth. "A few students are going to be making announcements before of after classes encouraging students to initiate their own measures of energy reduction." 
Residence hall directors have been asked to make adjustments to conserve energy in each hall. The principal energy cut back in res­idence halls will involve the elimin­ation of some hallway lights. 
According to Grace Burke, dir­ector of Regina Hall, "Other than turning off lights, the majority of the responsibility rests on the Resident Advisors because they are · in close contact with the students.'' 





KEN'S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWA Y WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
. PHONE 255-6500 
appointments preferred 


8\IGN:ER'S NTE 

AT THE WEDNESDAY LIBRARY 15 FEBRUARY 
""-0\S

8 -?? ot 5'~ ~~ 
o9\\~"~~t\t\'f-Stl.~~ ot\.~8~ ~ 
~"\ .6 ~ ((\,y..e 00 ~o ~~f 'flO $1~ · $1.00 coyer charg_~
J-___________________._________ 
·'
, -1.1 .. 
Tuesday, February 14, 1978 
the observer 
3 

Poet Karl Shapiro entertains library audience 

Storm brings feast 
BOSTON [AP] -As things return certain they were alive. Lobsters to normal after last week's vicious must be cooked while still alive, Northeast storm, a tale of an epic and eating dead lobsters, even lobster feast is being told in some after cooking them, can be fatal. 
by Kate Flynn StaH Reporter 

''Talking about the weather is banal,'' began poet Karl Shapiro, and then he opened with his "Prayer for Rain," a plea for precipitation from the "pisser on high," which he said brought on an actual rain shower as it was written. His imagery is meant not for biasphemy, he said, but for liberation. 
Shapiro entertained a full house last night in the Memorial Library Auditorium with an informal read­
ing of his published and  unpub­ 
lished poems.  
Shapiro  showed  more  of  his  

liberated perceptions in a poem about the familiar American figure, 
"The Accountant," a subject he says no one else has ever treated. "We went to him I because we thought he was a Jew," begins the poem. Imagery soon switched to a view of the accountant as a Chinese man to whom we pay our ceremoni­al visit, W2 in hand, until "Good bye, good luck until next year." 
This new vision of the accountant was evidently agreeable to a ND audience which.applauded warmly. 
Perhaps Shapiro's description of novelist Saul Bellow as one who laughs at you and with you at the same time describes his own poetic attitude. He said that he draws his material from the hard substance of Americana. 
Later in the evening he admitted, 
UMW strike continues 
[AP] -Mandatory power cut­backs were ordered in Indiana because of the 70-day-old nation­wide coal strike yesterday, Presi­dent Carter directed Labor Secre­tary Ray Marshall to "get person­ally involved" in talks between the United Mine Workers (UMW-and the soft coal industry. 
With coal stockpiles dwindling, others states were also within days of ordering power cutbacks. In Indiana and West Virginia, tens of thousands of workers feared layoffs as early as this week. 
But a split in the UMW, which earlier scuttled a proposed settle­ment, widened, and a spokesman for the Bituminous Coal Operators Associatio.i said no decision had been made on when bargaining would resume. 
of the towns along Massachusetts' ~~IHI-~--.c:---CH-HJ-~IHI-.cM_..a.....,IHI-~-..c:141-• 
South Shore. 
Last Wednesday, with the lights still out after the storm subsided, Bartlett Webber took a couple of buckets to his neighborhood beach in Marshfield, some 40 miles south of Boston, hoping to find sea clams washed ashore by the storm. 
He was amazed to find thou­sands of lobsters instead. 
''There were SO to 75 people all over the beach, filling their jackets, pails, everything they could think of with lobsters," he said. 
Lobsters -which now sell for $4 to $5 a pound -usually stay a few hundred yards off the shore, and the rough surf of the storm evidently carried many small, light ones to the beaches of a number of towns along the shore. 
Thousands not gathered by beachcombers died. 
The presence of so many lobsters on the beaches prompted state officials to warn beachcombers not to pick up any unless they were 
SU lotteries concert tickets 
Tickets for the America concert to be held March 9, will be on sale Monday at 9 a.m. A lottery for tickets will be held Sunday at 6 
Sophomore 
Lite~ary
Festival schedule change 
Due to bad weather, poet Louis Zukofsky will be unable to appear at the Festival. The following is the revised schedule of major readings. 
GEORGE MacBETH 
on Tues. Feb. 14, 8:00 p.m., Lib. Aud. 

on Wed. Feb. 15, 8:00p.m. Lib. Aud. 
A presentation of Zukofsky's work, however, will be given on Wed. Feb. 15 at 4:15p.m. in the Lib. Au d. 
p.m. in La Fortune Student Center .----------------------------~ 
in the main lobby. 
Numbers will be assigned during the lottery and there will be no overnight wait. Only a student's own ID will be accepted for the lottery and only one ID per person will be allowed. 
Monday morning WSND, AM 640, will announce the lottery numbers before they come up. All lottery number holders should lis­ten to the radio Monday morning and be at the ticket office as their number comes up. Those who have numbers but who do not show up will not have tickets saved for them. 
The ACC ticket office will also sell 
tickets on Monday morning at 9 
a.m. Lines will not be allowed to form any earlier than 6 p.m. Sunday to accommodate those students not interested in the lottery and all South Bend residents. 
NOTRE 
DAME 
Come on along and get that 
A.C. C. 
HAPPY FEELIN' 
qlei1S tDmoiiOW 8 PERFORMANCES thru WED.-THURS.-FRI. 8P.M. SUN. FEB. 19 SAl-NOON; 4P.M.; 8 p 
SUN.-2 P.M. alii 6 P.M. 
Tickets now on sale:
PRICES: 

NOTRE DAME A. C. C.
13.50 •15.00 . 16.00 
BOX OFFICEHalf price MON.-SAT. 9 to 5
r 

for NDlSMC students for Wed., Thurs. 8:00pm'Sat. 12:00noon 
Sun. 6:00pm shows 
Deputy White House Press Sec­retary Rex Granum said Marshall would meet with uni<ln representa­tives yesterday and with represent­atives of coal producers today. A White House official said Carter wanted to convey the message ''that it is extremely important that the negotiations get back on track." 
Earlier yesterday, Carter's spokesman said the president still had no plans to seek a court order forcing miners back to work and the White House did not plan to bring the two sides together in a face-to­face meeting there. The federal government did take steps to help utilities share electricity. Sen. Barry Goldwater (R-Ariz.) had called on Carter to invoke the Taft-Hartley act to suspend the walkout, but that action was not taken. 
Meanwhile, UMW President Arnold Miller and those rebelling against his leadership each claimed rank-and-file support. Some rebels said they were moving to oust Miller. 
Even if a settlement were reached 
immediately, it would take at least 
10 days for the union membership 
to ratify the pact and more time for 
coal shipments to reach normal 
levels. 
-On Sunday, the union's bargain­ing council refused to send to the rank-and-ftle a proposed contract Miller had recommended. 
that he has chosen not to write abrasive social critiques on Ameri­can life much to the dismay of his colleagues. "I love it and I hate it. I am part of it," he said. 
In a poem entitled "The Living Room of My Neighbors he depicted living rooms as airline waiting rooms, "Kitchens gleaming like cars," and "basements like kitch­ens -you could eat off the floor." 
He continued by taking a little jab at himself in the poem. Asking what his neighbors may think of his own "highbrow appearance," he said he simply hoped they thought of him at all. 
Shapiro said that he writes as a person first and not as a T.S. Eliot-like persona. He admitted that much of his poetry is autobio­graphical, ,as the three-liner he wrote about one of his students: "Now at least I am glad that you feel so much .at home in my class that you fall asleep." Shapiro candidly admitted that although this poem might be a haiku, he wasn't sure. 
Shapiro has experimented· with prose-poetry as well as synchronic free verse. Prose poetry he described as the '' toning down of the higher vibrations of the lyric poem which gets to the lower depths of poetry.'' 
He used this medium in ''The Heiligenstadt Testal,llent, '' a monologue by "Beethoven the bungler and not the wunderkind." He said he felt compelled to present an image of Beethoven as a puritanical and embittered misan­thrope who was so tortured by an increasing deafness that he threat­ened suicide. Mythological lies about Beethoven as the great romantic were started by scholars as soon as he died, he explained. 
Critics have said of the Pulitzer Prize winner that his poetry ern­bodies his conception that the poet sees with new vision and with honesty what others have forgotten how to see. 
Shapiro is an essayist as well as poet. "Beyond Criticism" and "Defense of Ignorance" are two of his better-known essays. His poetry volume V-Letter, and Other Poems won the Pulitzer Prize in 1945. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival will continue tonight at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium with the appearance of Scottish poet and novelist George MacBeth. 
D 95 da):s
to-be 
toge~~ 


Tuesday, February 14, 1978 
4 
the observer 
Coalition highlights 'shady' action 
by Mike Kenahan Staff Reporter 
In reaffirming the World Hunger Coalition's pledge to educate the Notre Dame community on "great issues of justice," Helen Gallag­her, coordinator of the Coalition, announced that this semester the Coalition will focus its attention on the activities of multinational cor­porations in underdeveloped coun­tries. 
Gallagher stated hat the Coalition plans this week to start an educa­tiona! period on ''the activities and · investments of multinational corpo­rations and trusts in Third World developing countries." She sped-fled that the "shady" marketing techniques of Nestle Company are going to be used as a prime example of such activities . 
"We're isolating Nestle, and we're going to use them as a real example-as a horrifying example-of what these multinational com­panies do and of what it is in their power to do." Gallagher said. 
Last semester, in a fact sheet entitled ''Boycott in Brief,'' the Coalition accused Nestle of using "unethical marketing techniques" in selling an infant baby formula called "Lactogen" in Third World countries. The information flyer stated that, "it has bee.n proven that Nestle's Lactggen has contri­buted significantly to increased infant mortality rates in the Third World." 
"However," Gallagher added, "Nestle is only one isolated inci­dent, but it's a reflection of a whole situation that really needs to be 
NO suspends UFW boycott 
by Marian mlcny Senior Staff Reporter 
Because Cesar Chavez, United 
Farm Workers' (UFW) Union lead­
er. ended the nationwide boycott of 
non-UFWpicked lettuce and table 
grapes, the University has sus­
pended its own 7-year boycott. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­
sity president, announced the act-
Carnival draws new record sum 
by Dave O'Keefe Staff Reporter 
"We think it's a record. We're 
not sure because we don't have 
books that go back that far, but 
we're pretty sure it's a record." 
That's how Mardi Gras Business 
Manager Tim Malloy described 
this year's $52,000 gross, an esti­
mated $26-28,000 of which will go 
to assorted Notre Dame Charities. 
The carnival itself grossed 
$32,157.72. Regina-Alumni led all 
booths with earnings slightly over 
$3,000. Second place went to 
Breen Phillips-St. Edwards 
($2,552. 70), while Flanner's Play­
boy Club ($2,433.90) finished third. 
Proceeds from raffle ticket sales 
amounted to over $20,000. E.J. 
Blake of Philadelphia was the 
winner of the 1978 Oldsmobile 
Cutlass after the ticket he bought 
from his daughter was drawn from 
the drum by Fr. Theodore Res­
burgh, University president. 
Freshman Jeff Kurtz, from Flan­
ner, was the winner of the student 
raffle drawing. He won a 1978 
Pinto. 
The Best Booth Award, based on 
special effects, originality, theme 
and design, was bestowed on 
Stanford-Lewis. Alumni-Regina 
and Fisher-Augusta tied for the 
Committee Award, while LeMans­
Grace won the award for Best 
Design. 
Zukovsky alters SLF schedule with cancellation 
Poet and novelist Louis Zukov­
sky. scheduled to speak tonight in 
t!le Memorial Library Auditorium 
as part of the Sophomore Literary 
Festival, has cancelled his appear­
ance, according to Festival Chair­
man Theresa Rebeck. 
Because of the cancellation, George MacBeth, originally sched­uled for tomorrow evening, will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium, and Anne Beattie. originally scheduled to read on Friday afternoon, will read tomorrow night. 
A presentation of Zukovsky's work will be given by Sean Golden, John Matthias and Steve Katz in the Memorial Library Auditorium today at 4:15p.m. As part of the program, the Notre Dame Choral( will sing some of Zukovsky's poetr) set to music. 
Rebeck said that Zukovsky was unable to fly in from Long Island because of the snow. 
ion and commended the campus community for sustained support of those "who hunger and thirst for justice." 
The University purchased only UFW lettuce and grapes after 77 percent of students voting in an April, 1971, referendum supported Chavez' call for a boycott. 
According to Fr. William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry, his office organized the referendum because of the strong recommenda­tion for the boycott on the part of American bishops. "It was a clear case of the Church's definitive decision on a justice issue--to give the laity a chance to get involved with solving a problem." 
Campus Ministry received help from various student groups who volunteered to distribute informa­tion on the purpose of the boycott 
Chapter 4: Welcome to My Laboratory 
I'm certain that many among you 
know your way around the labora­
tory. The chemical viles, beakers 
and cloud chambers are probably 
old hat to you, especially if you 
major in the sciences. 
But have you ever been inside a 
gemologica1 laboraJ ory? If not, 
pk:tse consider this your invita­
tion. 

To be honest, my lab is quite 
modest by university standards. 
In fact, it consists of only one 
counter, filled with the latest in 
gemological instrumentation. 
With these microscopes, Metler 
Balances, Proportion Scopes and 
other pieces of apparatus, I can 
tell you just about everything 
there is to know about your 
engagement diamond. And to let 
you know that I'm not just 
"blowing smoke", I encourage 
you to examine your stone per­
sonally. 

For example, the law demands 
that diamond quality be deter­
mined by an "expert", who views 
the diamond "in normal lighting 
through tenpower magnifica­
tion". Therefore, I will place your 
selection under a tenpower micro­
scope for your inspection. Then 
(and this is not a legal require­
ment), I will transfer your stone to 
a 280-power trinocular research 
microscope, through which you 
can easily see any flaws within its 
structure. 

After you have seen the "degree 
of imperfection" of your diamond 
(as I mentioned in an earlier 
column, there are no "perfect" 
diamonds), we will place it on the 
Metler Balance. With this precise 
instrument, you will be able to 
exactly determine its weight in 
milligrams. To calculate carat 
weight, simply remember the 
formula: 2 mg. equals 1 point; 100 
points equal 1 carat. 
If you so desire, we can also 
check the symmetry of your 
intended purchase on a GIA 
Proportion Scope, which is accur­. ate within fractions of a degree. 
and take the referendum in the dining halls. Toohey emphasized that "at that time, the issue wasn't all that uncomplicated, and we had to give students a · chance to understand all the documentation about it before they voted." 
Toohey, who worked with Chavez in California when the UFM move­ment was initiated, stated that the boycott had a positive effect. "It really was an exercise that offered the right kind of power to the University community to help af­fect the cause of human rights. Of course, it did inconvenience peo­ple, but, in the question of justice, sometimes people need to be inconvenienced," he commented. 
Toohey added that a special intention of thanksgiving for the boycott's success will be offered at the 12:15 p.m. Mass on Sunday. 
diamond with Gemprlnt appara­tus. Only a handful of these sophisticated lasar beam instru­ments are to be found in the Midwest, and they are · now considered the only court-admis­sable form of evidence recognized by legal authorities in cases concerning lost or stolen gem­stones. Gemprlnt literally shoots a lasar beam into your diamond or other transparent gemstone, re­fracts its internal pattern into thousands of tiny dots, and photographs the pattern for per­manent identification. 
Now, technology aside, time for 
' one of my pet gripes concerning jewelers in general. Far too many of them (there are exceptions, of course), expect you to take their word for the quality of their merchandise. They offer you no testing equipment, no legally­binding appraisal, no validation that your stone justifies its price. Many of these people, in fact, are nothing more than salesmen who couldn't tell a $100 Mexican fire opal from a $2,000 Burma ruby if their jobs depended on it. A point for you to ponder: just because a man stands behind a jewelry case, does that necessarily make him an expert on the contents of that case? At Diamond Import Company, I expect you to demand proof of quality before you pay for your engagement diamond. That's why I make the tools of the Gemologists' trade available to 
you. 

If you are interested in knowing more about what goes on inside your diamond, or if you would like a personal introduction to our laboratory facilities, please feel free to contact me at Diamond Import Company. Our establish­mentis located in the lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend, and our telephone number is 287-1427. 
Next week, my last collumn of· the semester deals with the six rules of buying an engagement ring. 
(This is an advertisement.) 
Finally, we can c~eck th:::e=-----~­questioned. And that's how we're going to use it.'' She explained that, "even though the Coalition actively supports the boycott, we'd like to broaden that into using Nestle as an example of corporate responsibility in developing nations." 
Gallagher mentioned that the Coalition has scheduled an on­campus showing of the movie entitled "Bottled Babies" for March 9. The movie, produced by the Infant Formula Action Coalition (INFACT) of the University of Minnesota, explains the whole problem of infant feeding in the Third World. 
But, according to Gallagher, the climax of the Coalition's educa­tional efforts will come on March 12, when a pannel made up of 
Tutors workshop planned tonight 
All tutors with the Neighborhood Study program are asked to attend a teaching techniques workshop tonight at 7:30p.m. in Room 105 of the Saint Mary's Science Building. Nora Hoover of the SMC Education Department will conduct the work­shop about techniques for teaching reading to grade school students. 
various people will discuss "the whole problem." Gallagher noted that the panel will consist o representatives from various Uni­versity departments, the Hunger Coalition, and "hopefully" Nestle and INFACT. 
Gallagher explained that the purpose of the panel will be to "probe a little deeper into all the complexities surrounding the issue, because there are really a great deal of them." She added, "it's not simply a black and white issue. There's the whole question of corporate responsibility between the developed and the developing countries." 
Gallagher stressed that the whole purpose and goal of the Coalition throughout is still educa­tional. She noted, though, that that type of goal is difficult, ''because you can never really gauge your success." 
The Coalition's coordinator emphasized, however, "that maybe someone will never come forward that will read about the Nestle boycott, but at least they'll know what's going on and possibly support the whole thing by writing a couple of letters to Nestle or following the situation." She concluded, "that's about all we can do." 
Take 


advantage Qf 

ur Valentine ... 
'(lPPS 50 

The rest is up to you!! 

This week in the Lobby of LaFortune from 12 :00-4 :00 p.m. you can purchase any of the following: 
Tickets to the Junior Class Valentine's Day Semi-formal at the Library, February 14th. $10 per
I. 
couple. 

Tickets to the Junior Class trip to the Dayton 
Basketball game. This event Is open to all students 
and a $10 deposit is due by Feb· 17th. 
Tickets to the Junior Class Ski Trip to Canonsburg, 
3. Michigan on February 18th. $25 for transporta­tion, lift fee and ski rental; only $18 if you have your own skis. 
4 Junior Class T-shirts on sale for $4.00. Sizes: 
• X-large, Large, Medium & Small. 

-~-------­
---------------------------------------------------------~---­
EDITORIAL BOARD

*The Observer 
an indepenent student newspaper 

serving notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ 'Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed KathY-Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 

Tuesday, February 14, 1978 
P. 0. Box Q 
Silence is unsatisfactory 
Editor's Note: The Observer re­
grets the delay In printing the 
foUowlng letter, received Feb. 8. It 
Is accompanied here by a second 
letter from Mr. Carpenter, received 
Feb. 13. The letters have been 
edited with the author's permission 
to avoid repltltlon of points. 
Dear Editor: 
"It's a· matter that I don't want to 
discuss," said (Notre Dame Trus­
tee Paul) Hellmuth to Observer 
reporters. Yet if (John) Marks' 
accusations that Hellmuth was 
associated with a corporation that 
"conducted surveillance of domes­
tic anti-war and civil rights activists'' 
are correct, then Hellmuth had 
better say something in his own 
defense. 
If Marks states the truth, then 
Hellmuth, a representative of ND, was breeching some of the same rights that Fr. Hesburgh (in his debate last year) accused the ·Russians of violating .... (Second Jetter begins here) ... These are serious charges, since they deal with the delicate subject of "freedom"--excuse me, we call 
it "justice" at ND. 
I think he should say something 
in response to these charges, 
because some people at ND don't 
feel "comfortable" knowing that a 
man who was associated with such 
activities has influence with the 
administration. I must admit that I, 
being a child of the Watergate era, 
am suspicious of silent defense 
speeches .... 
I don't want anyone's reputatior. 
to be sullied, and muckraking is 
abhorrent from any point of view, 
so Hellmuth should say something 
before rumors start. Perhaps 
Marks' accusation is a rumorjtself 
If so, we'll all be glad to hear it. 
IfHellmuth or the administration 
doesn't want to say anything a~out 
the matter, then my next Jetter will 
be on why a person could feel 
un-"comfortable" towards a per­
son associated with the CIA's 
domestic surveillance activities. 
John T. Carpenter 
Pride 
vs. 
spirit 
Dear Editor: 
Don't get us wrong--we cheer 
with the best of them. However, 
what we saw during the DePaul 
game was a bit much. 
That little car may be fine to see 
during halftime, but during the 
closing seconds of a pressure­
packed game, it seemed rather , 
"bush." Ponsetto's angry kick at 
the car during halftime was un­
called for, but could you have 
blamed Dave Corzine if he had 
smashed it near the game's end? 
Further, the leprechaun should 
stay off the court and cheer from seeding of the clouds by thethe sidelines. Injecting some color supposedly errant Cosmos 954into the game is great, but we don't satellite (making it wise not only tofeel such actions as yelling and avoid yellow snow but also the kind pointing at Corzine during the time that glows in the dark), should outs exemplifies the ND spirit. 
open the eyes of even the mostThe waving of arms while an hard-core pinko sympathizers. 
opposing player attempts free Is this the start of the real coldthrows is another "bush" maneu­war? Are we going to sit idly byver which blemishes the reputation while the red menace in Moscowof the so-called "finest C(lllege freezes us into a second-ratestudent body." 
power? The time is now to get theStudent spirit is fine and should snowball rolling. We must act nowbe encouraged, but not at the to put the snowshoe on the other 
expense of student pride. Washington--People used to talk are more and more people in this
foot.

John Goggin about the weather, but now they country telling other people what
We believe this country should
len leRose just sit in front of their TV sets and He does or does not like. That's
set a goal of 100 inches of snow on
DanSeeberg curse it. why we're having such bad wea­
the Ukraine before the year 1984 Everyone has a theory why this ther."
and dedictote the country's scienti­country has had such horrible "Merkin, has God told you thisfic and industrial communities to 
meeting that goal. winters. One was advanced by a Himself?" 
friend of mine named Merkin. "I'm afraid He has~"
Weather plot 
We also urge everyone to write their congressmen telling them you While I personally don't buy it, I "When?" 
feel obligated to pass it on. "The other night, just before Iwant another White Christmas but
revealed I 
Merkin believes all the bad went to bed." weather in the United States began "What exactly did He say?"
Dear Editor: "Miss Peach's Sixth Grade Science just after Anita Bryant attacked the "He said everyone is using His How dare Marshall Bertsch Class gay population in this country. name these days to plug his or her blame our recent meteorological Harris Elementary School "God," said Merkin, who is very own cause. People are making
trials on an innocent bunch of Akron, Ohio [whe.re they really devout, "got very an~rv with Miss fortunes telling the rest of us no more Red Winters. 
lumberjacks! We think the blame Bryant when she said He doesn't what's good and what's bad. He
don't get as much snow as Indi­should be placed where it truly ana]" like gays, and He's been punishing says He's being sold on television belongs, square in the laps of that us ever since." like soap or toothpaste. What's 
Coven of Crazed Commisars who "How do you know this?" I said. even worse is that anyone who has congregate in the Kremlin. "I talk to God every night," a political ax to grind says that God 
It is a known scientific fact that Merkin said. "Right after Miss supports him. If there is one thing the savage weather of the past two "Little white Bryant's attack He became very we know from the Bible it's that winters has been brought about by upset and decided to teach us all God doesn't like people cashing in a southerly shift in the jet stream. a lesson. You see, God loves us all, on His name." This has been forcing all the frigid lies" and He doesn't distinguish be­"Did He tell you He was going to weather that is rightfully our great tween heterosexuals and gay peo­drop a pile of snow on the East neighbor's to the North to sweep Dear Editor: ple. As far as he's concerned, Coast?" through this country's Mid-Eastern This is an open letter to Mr. we're all His children, and when "Yup." and East Coast regions. Mason: one person says He doesn't like a "What did you do about it?" 
Now it seems a bit more than I'm not fond of little white lies. certain group of people He be­"I went out and bought up all the co-incidental that durin~ the sum­As this university continues to comes furious." rock salt at Sears." mer of 1976, while this country was weave its tangled anti-union web, I "But Anita Bryant talks to God, "That was good thinking," I at the height of its Bi-centennial become increasingly disillusioned too, and she says God is against said. "Did God say He was going to activity, the Soviet Union erected a with this Catholic institution. homosexuals and believes they're continue giving us all these bad series of huge parabolic reflectors You said "the Teamsters are sinners." winters?" high in the Ural Mountains. The causing the delay." Why has the "She doesn't speak to the same "He did indeed. He said He was 
reported reason for these devices, University stalled the NLRB hear­God I do," Merkin said. "My God going to keep it up until everyone which the liberal muddleheads who stopped saying terrible things a­
ings for another month? is too busy to get involved in run our Central Intelligence Agen­You said that, ''the University people's sex lives. As long as they bout their fellow Americans." 
cy have swallowed whole hog, is has always maintained that em­don't hurt anybody, my God be­"How do I know what God told that they are part of a long range ployees have the right to unionize if lieves everyone should be left you is any more valid than what radar system similar to our DEW they wish to do so." Then why alone." Anita Bryant says God told her?" line. won't you let the groundskeepers "But Anita has to be speaking to "Why don't you ask Him your­
However, Dr. Fritz the Cat of the have their election for a union? the same God," I protested. "After self?" Merkin said. 
University of Northern South Dako­May I remind you that unioniza­all, there is only one." And that's exactly what I did. ta at Fargo has calculated, using tion is not a privilege. Unionization "Maybe she's not hearing Him That night as I knelt by my bed I Danielle Bernoulli's little-known and labor organization are rights the same way I do. Everyone hears said, ''God, did you tell Merkin you treatise ''Gotherdamerung der Par­protected by the Federal govern­God differently. My message from were punishing all of us because obolischreflektor" that these re­ment and endorsed by the Catholic Him is that there are a lot of everyone was using your name for 
flectors seem extremely close to the Church. I've yet to see any evi­straight people who are sinning his or her own purposes?" ideal flow solution necessary to dence of the University defending and are on their way to hell, and There was a pause, and then God produce the observed jet stream this right. there are a lot of homosexuals who said, "Merkin talks too much." shift. will be allowed in heaven. What's [c] 1978 
This, coupled with the recent Name withheld by request getting God really sore is that there Los Angeles Tlmes Syndicate 
:::::J 

50 {))HAT YOU 8IfT.tn; W AU MY 
WHAT OH, 7HE PPESIIJENTfF 
Sf»1157HIN6

BEEN 1JP 70, R£51/M&S aJT. I &X­
SOI<T OF YAl&, HEAOrKABC~ 
JOBS YOU MANAGER FOR 711£ fl£[)­
CFIAJHAT

UNClE IJUK£? P&CT I SHOULIJ BE
~ 

fO(}NIJA HEARING SOMPJH/NG 
NATURE?

APPLY!N6 SKINS, SOM6Tli!N6 fF
t= NEIA/ JOB PRETTY sa:JN... I 
fOR? THIS NA­
\

>. / YI5T? 
\ 7lJRE...
.... 
~ 







\f 
y 
'~near Darby, Dear Bibs Jaime, 
Fred, Hey Suzie "Fife,"
~ Please be my valentliNHir do you only Lusting for your body on Valentine's Day. I sit in the eye of astorm waiting to come Roses and red How's your life...now? A lot can 1)ove me for my Prime Variety? 

· Mo MB home to you. Strawberries are, too. happen in one year, huh!? Think XXOO, You're a cute little yankee. June...forever!! I love you, kid.
.S. Since Darby still waxeth dlldllnful, Sue, Helga 
Your Leprechaun

Griff, would you be my valentine Instead? These past 3 months have been the Be my valentine? absolute best. Thanks lor everything but There once was a girl from CP. Love, Sandy Jean,especially just for being you. • Who loved Lefty Drlesell and JT. 
Betty How do I spell Sandy? Ness, as in 
DeerKIIgllb, Tom But her true claim to fame 
gentleness. kindness, happiness, and

Roses are red, violets are blue, Was that wonderful name 
Michele Ann-thoughtfulness. Happy Valentine's Day
~ 
I love you even when you have the flu. Dearest Char Now emerson she'll always be. Happy Valentine's Day. from a friend.Roses are blue, violets are red, Valentine's are for kids. Goo goo, I love 
Your Buddy
·f l'lllove you lots till we both are dead! you. Lynda Maccaroon-
MAUREEN A. CARNEY:

;Didn't I say it elegant?!) Hoey Life and love are best when you feel them Adam­, Kllg with the eyes of a child Be my Valentine! This may be the ROSES ARE RED,~ Sroggins: with love, opportunity of a lifetime! AND SO IS YOUR HEAD;
The least we can do for Terry Kath Is give me Love, VIOLETS ARE BLUE,r.oear Punkin-nunkin, 
him a small memorial party. Mare YOUR NECK'S A DIFFERENT HUE; 
~
, Remember: I love you more than all Rock Music Lover RAE, I LOVE YOUIIhe snowflakes that have ever fallen in all Even though you're a witch, you're still EMB· 
THE SPANISH LIBRARIAN 

11the world ... no matter how far away you Dear Sharon, my girl. I knew a young lady named Bender 
P.S. "DO YOU WANT ME ?" CIAO! 

,are. Have a heart. Be my Valentine. Pari To whom all my love I did render11 Love always, Love, Kevin I sent her some candy Anny,
r_ Tlga 
WJJM, Which she thought was dandy "Lets have our next affair In Aspen."
Jun O'M: She loves a tuba; she always wilL Happy But now she's not nearly so slender!
'{Debbie Kay, Love you,
How about that duet? Valentine's day. BJH Not from JimYHappy Valentine's Day Sweetheart. Have 
Happy V-Dayl Love,a nice day. 
Ed EMBB Dear Chrissy, KEB,Happy Valentine's Day. Happy Valentine's Day to a great
Happy V-Day to the Fn1shman Falto! Mary and Rob-Love~ Rob roomie Wuv, Love, DLZ
Happy Valentine's Day to our favorite NO Band: roommate and her favorite vacuum. Chris:
Daisy 
Happy V-Day and GOOD TIMES for '78. (remember Mar B.H.) In America we say: "You've got my Happy VD to Eliot Ness and the LeFavlc Love ya, heart" Happy Valentine's Day! Untouchables of 410 Walsh
ean J. 
Mitch and Di America's own,We'll know Friday night won't we. 
Mary G. Tim Babe, what a wonderful, wonderful world John R. and Bob V-Pussycat. James at 16 and our little Beth Towne "it" is...with you. We aren't giving out surprises for Mr. Snickers (K.C.) brown cupid, will you'll be our valen­
Woodstock Happy Valentine's Day to the Polish 
Michael SSM Valentine's Day-John doesn't like them Don't stop laughing. tines?
How about studying a little compara­
and Bob doesn't understand them. So I like you just the way you are, even if I
ive anatomy together? P.S. Your roomie Love,
Cathy, have a boring day. (cheer up, It'll be kick now and then!
Isn't bad either. Kweku's Angels
See I didn't forget! Happy Valentine's tomorrow soon). We love you. Sam
GML 
Day. 117Lyons DENISE P. HOGAN: LeighT. ps (still intact) Cactus-CUPID SAYS YOU LAUGH TOO MUCH! 
Katie Foy, Thanks for the flowers you'll get yours In LOVE,You're the only valentine I know who's 
Look your very own personal! Betsy and Ellen, December. PERCY'shoots" in racketball. 
Happy Valentine's Day Happy Valentine's Day to our favorite Smoker
Woodstock 
SMC chicks. May the Valentines Day To Susan Schreder, I wanna kiss, gimme
Mare, Saint bring you NO acceptance letters. Harry: a kiss.
ue Clarke 
You're "woof". Be my valentine. (Just kidding) You're both super. Your little fishies can swim up my
The one and only seasick Valentine. Frank 
Love, Love ya! Niagara Falls anytime.
gl 
Adam 117 Lyons Marie Hey Valentine! ps Thanks for the party -It was great. Teddy Bears make great Christmas Diane Mick: presents!Happy Valentine's Day. Hvala LepaBasketball· My love is forever Happy Valentina's Day! [I have mora Yours. Batty, to say but you might show It to your dad]. SHA We do appreciate all your hard wont Basket Case Happy Valentine's Day.

To my favorite Creep: Love,Melinda. Thank you .. "Observerltas" I'll be your grape if you'll be my Love, vaientine!That's an offer that's hard to The Creepo Scott Cameron ­
refuse! "What Is a Man? What has he got? If Love you, Shawn Marlene, not me then he has not. I (wish I) did It Ed Love you Always Sweetheart. Happy my way!"Valentines. Frank To agents 41-7 and 1.63-Happy V-0! Love, Bud Love you, Beautiful Blue Eyes,
Mary Dearest Ricky, You· re the sweetest of all sweethearts You asked and now I'm yours (yours and I love you more than ever. alone, too, I'm not a Latin lover!) I love 3-8-1
Joe-Joe, The most beautiful thing in my life Is you! 

you! Happy Valentine's Day! xoxox Cyndi John Dear,
I love you! The Polish Elf 

Thanks lor all those kisses you keep in Rosemary, your pockets. Happy Valentines Day. Connie D. Spacey· Ell, what would our parents say if they This was the last VD personal to be Koral Has the price gone up or Is It still $207 We love the patch knew. typed. Sometimes it pays to work layout. 
Woodstock it moves so nice; (Freud's having a field day.) Happy Karen C. 
Jennifer, Valentine's Day. Where's that beautiful math major I once
it shows you're a catch Judy B. and shows our vice 1 hope your room Is filled with flowers Love Always, knew? hort people: grubby little fingers, dirtly Reading your mind from all of your "men" HVD -LAP GL little minds. Is like a race; Ex Roomie 
Kathy, Dear George
Woodstock we often lind Will you be my valentine forever? (I'll They've locked me In a 4 by 4 room with
we can· t keeppace Chrissy· 
definitely be yours). Love ya always, omy ,ny math bOOks for company...l'm
Prune, kid you about ozone? Thanks for being the sweetest sister In Larry picking the lock. is the welcome mat stillYours till it don't snow in Minneapolis. about massag1n9 your back? the world. We love you mucho. 
out? Many Valentines wishes to you and

~ after that... as hedonist you re not alone Danny and Rocky To the skinny little boy from Cleveland Jerry, Tom and Andy!
but control you do Jack 

Ohio: the "Belle"
(•Happy Valentine's Day to Dick Addis· jgv/rjr Bazooka Joe, 
The stores are out of Slovak chocolate but
merlca's Answer to the Oil Crisis. 1still love you more than long distance 
happy Valentine's day anyway! Tom Smith (3810), call Debbie Shemancik
Dad and Tom, candy canes. 
Totally Corrupted (1324) and Introduce yourself.
o Barb, Cathy, Roxanne and Cleo: We Happiest of Valentine's Days. Love, '!lay not be literate as you can see My love, The Bunny 
JB. Friends of J-rey, 
~II we want is to wish you Happy VD Sua IOU one half dozen. Payable on demand. (T., M, R, and In memory of B) Yes, that
Ientine's Day) Brad Bauer Happy Valentine's Day. Love, was from me. Here's one for you. XO,
Jeff and Hugh To NO's cutest paranoiac: Happy Valentine's Day from and admir­Challenge accepted. Prize -one free er. The Incorrigible one. M. parietals break. Anne Elizabeth 
Morrissey Musicians and Singers:

143 Love always, 
You're the absolute best I'll ever work
663 Prince Charming (?) Henry, with.
Johnny Mathis Is great. Happy Valen­

Love, Martin
Michele. tine's day. You are still my favorite valentine Tis better to have loved and lost than ELIZA 
Michel, get psyched. Don't let me down.
Scout never to have loved at aiL MS
MARC Dan, ;!B Happy Valentine's Day. (long distance). I 
Maureen,

Remember the first night of Mardi Bird: love you. 
You can only say It with apotatoe.
ras, it is now again my turn to be We walk the other way rather than risk Guess who? 
Johnny Potatoseed
enticed! rejection. watch the wind blow all hope appy Valentine's Day Pat, Pat I have to away. as we crawl into ourselves for Dudley, • 
Liz,

protection. Please be my Valentine okee • dokey? 
Happy Valentine's Day. Sorry I can't
Love, Oscar 
be there.
J-ftey 

All my love always,
high, won't you release Last the prose, Rockin' Robyn Fred
but the Rlllll!ll still goes... Try not to fool around with any more reopen AJG enterprises and make In muiUplll of ten. armadillos. Stay as sweet as you are. 
Dear Goofy,

r offln firm. llerua. ILY Your buddy, 
Your smile is hubblllc.

l•''IIIII" clllldl Danny 

-~-~ 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY to the 4 sweethearts of 217 Holy Cross and of course, IRIS. 
HP 
To Old 5 RN: You're always In our thoughts. We love you .•.. MOMS 
Peaker, Bill, John, Pat, Happy Valentine's Day Love, Mrs. Brittian 
There Is no woman fllrer than my little Sara, She's coming up to NO from hom Just to sea me. Happy Valentine's U'l woman, 
your lover, Mark 
Former Pawn • 
Despite your possessive tendencies and lack of trust • I love you. Happy Valentine's Day! 
Hanky's Roommate 
Art, 
You've won my Heart! Love, your "infinite" valentine 
Snail, 
Happy Valentine's Day! Je' Tlem! Love, E. 
Eddie, 
One year late but I still love ya. Meatloaf 
Milt, May cupid spear your "chickenbutt." Muck, Mahew Love, Turtlelips 
To KEB: Roses are red Violets are Blue Short people "stink" And that Includes you.
from your SNIP pies. 
To JAP: Roses are red Violets are blue I love tall girls and I love you! 
from an admirer 
To DLZ: Roses are red Violets are blue Mand M's are great and sew are you! 
from an admirer 
To BAL Roses are red Violets are blue Pancakes are stacked And so are you! 
from an admirer 
TMB, Happy Valentine's Day to a reborn jock. MMM 
Steve Barrett, You're still my favorite valentine. Steve Barrett 
Horny tonight? Call llama delight. Head Herdsman Rami at 8657 
To Marynell of 413 McCandless, If I told you that you had a beautiful body would you hold it against me? An admirer 
If I told you I liked your pants...could I talk you out of them? 
KB Don't go trying some new fashion, don't change the color of your halr...l like you just the way you are. 
Billy Joel 
Pato, My love, don't go home please! I love that deep voice. Your secret Lover 
Dearest brown eyes please beware 
That you have caught a teddy bear; 
He listens well and is cuddly too 
And hold afragrant present just for you!Music Man 
VALENTINEL, Only four steps now, but there's more to "heaven." Be there Angel! Love, Snuggles 
M· 
Another year, another name but I love the same! Happy Valentine's SWAK· Your animal 
though I can't spell, and you're my daddy, 1do know one thing· I you. Happy Valentines Day. SFWSDSOB 
Observerites: 

Love to each of you on this special day.
••Mom'' 
PS Thanks for flowers, candy, etc.! 

Michael-We wtsh you were here! Happy Valentine's Day 
Love,'Rm2SI9 
Fat and Ugly ­
Happy Valentine's Day and thanks for everything. It has Definitely been a better semester. 
love, Blimpo 

To the one who knows all: 
See, I can be sneaky too. Thanks for everything. Have aHappy Valentines and be good but then again I really don't have to worry! (or do I?) 
Love, 
"That one" 

Snookie, 
I like you a lot with your cute butt. Nobody does it better. Happy Valen· tine's Day evil one. 
Love, Me 
PRINCESS, 
Happy V-day and the circles they go round and round. 
Love, 
The King 
Karen, Roses are red, Violets are blue. I don't like Sweetie, But I sure love you. 
Happy Valentine's Day, Sweetie 
Mamie, To the cutest anywhere, Happy Valen­tine's day. Love. Jack 
Dear Pooh Head, Happy Valentine's Day! Love, B.A. 
Terry, 
I miss you(r) love, very much. What ever happened to cloud four? Pull an ear!!! 
Love. 
Tim 
xxxxxo 
To "the Don" When can we fly united? Love, Chach 
McGreggor, I love your blue eyes. Please be mine. Will you be my valentine. Molly 
Gem maD 
I never dreamed that my attempted theft of your calendar would lead to this. I hope it continues. 
Kevin 
Bunch, You're my sunshine! Love to you always... jp 
Handsome young gentleman on 7th floor: I am enamored of you. Medieval institute Secretary 
CTC: 
Thanks for everything· especially you. love ya always, LEH 
Robin, When are we going to fly together? Bird 
Norma, I know you need me. But not tonight, I think I'm going to have a headache. Al 
Mark, 
Skiing at night, popsicle toes, John Klemmer and Yvon Chouinard • thanks for the love. 
To the "King" of Valentines: Happy V.·D. Love, "The Queen" 
Ace, 
You are the greatest. You make my horns grow longer every minute. I love you. 
Koshka 
Happy Valentine's Day Beth or Feliz Ora de Amorado Isabel. Mongo 
-Boo-boo: You're still the one that I adore. J. 
Kathy K., To the very best! Happy Valentine's Day. Love, 
Bob 
Joan: 31 days till Florida! George 
P.S, Be my VUntine 
To the Fred: 
H's been the best. Hope you can wait •1 until the summertime. Happy Valen· tine's day with love. 
Sweetie Pie Framps, What goes in your mouth long and hard and comes out soft and sticky? Gum! 1 . Negligible Mass 
Ritz: Happy Valentine's Day. Gee its a nice night for a walk. Can ducks fly? ~­Mushrooms 
Dearest Pig, The pup and I love you fiercely. 
Dear Mother Hutton, Who needs flowers or candy? A Mlcheiob would be just dandy! Love, Your local drunk 
Wuv Boy, Joy is clothing for the soul devine, so won't you please be my valentine? WuvGirl 
Dear Pen Pal, From piddidles to backgammon you're the best. including "side ways." love, Your Iux Pen Pal. 
Tracie, You are my everything. I love you. Shugins. Chris 
BB We make a great team! I love you. Snow 
Virginia 
. Hows the weather in Jamestown? Jt won't get warm here until just before spring break. 
Love, Tom, Jerry, Albert 
Jellybean, 
Be my Abbyssinian maid and sing me a symphony of Mount Abora. Put that to music. 
Your nut. 
Crackerjack, Gum sticks, oreo's, frogs, and snowballs.... how can you but not be my special Valentine? Happy Valentine's Day! 
Peanut Twister 
Magua: I hope this is better than last year's! Go kiss a wall. Love, Boopsie 
Claire W., Who loves you? B. 
Rubber Band, You will always be my valentine. I love you. Love, Big Daddy. 
Lotsa love to all the terrific guys and gals in student government and student union. 
" Bookkeeper" 
Teg, 
Who knows how long I've loved you. You know I love you still. Happy 4th Valentine's Day. 
Luke 


Les, I miss your small hands and feet. Happy Valentine's Day! Mike 
To the sweetest • 

Mary J. M.Lou, Fran, Gooier, Hubie, Marsa. Mo, Sue, Corehead, Janet, --Hadlock, Twist, Margo, Mary Clare, 
Maureen, Lynn Datzman, Anne, Karen, Sharon, Chris, Marianne, Gayle, Beulah, Martha, Kathy and Laurie • Especially Mary Pat, Trlsh, Sheila, Liz and Sharon 
327 
Those who reside In the santuary ·of ecstacy extend Valentine's day wishes to all lovely ladles on campus. DeHaven 


too. 
Sassy: 
My love for you can only grow stronger as we head towards the west. Happy Valentine's Day 
Jean Alycla .._~· hed llf .......
You navv tout my e "lUI a sweetnaasunlquelyyourown. tlovelou. 
M.L 
You have brightened up my day like 
orange juice does. Valentine's Day.  I love you.  Happy  
Love.  
M.L  

Joan, May all the doors you encounter In life be open, Happy Valentine's Oay. Jeff 
To a member of the Court • It certainly is worth the 53 stairs. AML Escort Service 
Hay Cheech: Dis 1st na zi louvon, but In da meantime, ain't we got funninn. ·the Sundancing lizard 
Cathy, Roses are red (no kidding) Violets are blue (really?) If I'm head of AMTM Where does this put you? 
Happy Valentine's Day. S.B. 
Dear Pittsbur9h Dough Boy, Why weren t you on the seventh floor? I'm disappointed. Sue 
G.L. Silver Streak and Peppermint Schapps, How about your formal? Thanks for my best year ever. I love you. 
Jay 
Dee, Happy V-day to my one and only. Love always, Double-U 
Carol and Sharon: 
Happy Valentine's Day. Not the guys from St. Ed's ·the cool guys! 
MLB and RCL: To the Cheg Xerox Club • Happy Valentine's Day. JJP 
Jackeroo Guess who!? Be my valentine and always my friend. 
9-C: 
Be our disco Valentines.  Then we'll be  
ramblln'!  
Love,  

Penthouse sweets plus one. 
Dear John, Happy Valentine·s Day to someone special, traveling miles to surprise me with a birthday kiss. 
Love you, Susie 
Kathleen Mary, If I told you, would you hold it against me? Monk 
Jean, The flower of Mount Prospect -be my Valentine. 
J.M. Soil is black, Steel is blue, Thinking of structures, I think of you. 
Happy Valentine's Day. J.K. 
Nela. Te quiero y ya me hace falta, llamame! B.B. 
Chuck Colbert, Wild nights! Wild nights! Were I with thee, wild nights should be our luxury! Bashful in Badin 
Nancy and Steffanie: To a couple of fun and foxy chicks. Thanks a million. Love, BandT 
Earth to Greg: Beam down and be my valentine. Anonymous 
Boom-Boom: Will you be my Valentine? Jim 
lap "If you love someone, let him go..." My someone is always welcome to come back for a tunafish and champagne dinner. With peanut butter for dessert?! 
rm 
Barb: The coal strike is over. So on V·Day will you be mine? Red Caboose 
Dear Muff. Happy V·Day; less than 2and one half years. Love, 
z 
Big Guy: 
You're the Tarzan of my heart. Love, Jane 
MMR· 
On this day, wtth thoughts of you, I keep myself from feeling blue. Happy Valentine's Oay to you. 
:-::---------.:S::.:..A.::;.D::;_· Wis. 
You're pretty nice for aloser 
• Love 

Koral Amelia, Ama! et omnia nostrae venibunt. John 
leigh, Mary, Pam: Can you draw a hart graph using sin and y=x times x? JJ 
Guenevere, 
The quest for the grail seems so long but I think I'm finally off in the right direction. I know I shall return a better king. Avery Happy V·Day to m'lady and m'love. 
Arthur 

Steve, It's the thought that counts. HappyValentine's Day! Coleen 
Mary, Carmie, Marsa • R.O.V. dues must be paid today • or drop out! k.k. 
Roger, Happy Valentine's Day to my favorite constant campanian. I hope you enJoy your "presents." Love, RLK(HUWO) 
To the Oregon Stud Duck: Happy Valentine's Day. What's up? 
Thomas: How about another night like 2 years 
ago? Happy Valentine's Day. Ditto Ditto Ditto 
Longfellow, I'm glad I picked VC!U up. Happy Valentine's day. Cuddly 
Tom-reason 1999: because mutual is better. You're the greatest. 
Arwen, 
I am on my quest. I always remember you. I love you. Happy Valentine's Day. ESLO 
Strider 

John Jacobs: For you I care. please feel the same; though 1dare not reveal my name. avec beaucoup d'amour 
Cutes: No roses, but a long overdue Happy Birthday. BBOC 
Griff, Happy Valentine's Day and four 
months.  Now  can  I  see  the  pink  
nightgown?  Love.  
JPL  


To my favorite misery, Happy Valentine's Day. Love, 
C. Francis 

Marie to all the smiles· from schnapps on the island to hour-late taxis. Cheers, Hairy 
Happy 22nd Birthday to my Valentine. B. Love always,
G. 

Bo, 
On this day of hearts and flowers (bells and banjos) I'm thinking of you with love. Jet'aime, Sandra 
JJK· 
You'll always be my Valentine, Sweetie. I love you. 
Karen 

Thumper, Happy V·Oay, Happy 15, and happy forever. Love, Thumpee 
Dearests Kathaldo, Betsey, Grlfflnski, V, Cocovegas, Doyle, and CosiCosi, Happy Valentine's Days! Love and L's, Mar·Jo-ree 
P.S. Get L's tonight! 
To my Favorite Valentina at 434 LIManl, at St. Mary'a,
Yes even In the World! 
· -tove, 

·-~~~?:.,:..~----~~~~ 
by Tim Sullivan  in an official organization until the  votes, except in the distribution of  chairman of this year's committee.  still  allowing  sufficient  time  for  
actual campaig111ing period begins.  official petitions."  According  to  Carmichael,  the  study.  
Organized by  the  Ombudsman  Ten percent of campaign expenses  Organizing a campaign commit- objectives of the Election Commit­ "We would appreciate any stu­ 
Election  Committee,  this  year's  will  be  deducted  if this  rule  is  tee has been defined as "soliciting  tee are to make sure the elections  dent input or suggestions,"  com­ 
'itudent Body President and Vice­ violated.  any help whatsoever, seeking en- are held in a fair an equitable way,  mented Carmichael, "which so far  
President  (SBP/SBVP)  elections  According  to  the  rules,  "No  dorsements,  or  seeking committ­ to  keep  the  cost  down  for  has been minimal.  There has been  
Nill be held on March 9, after a March 7 primary. According to the  write-ins or blank ballots are allowed. They will not by counted.  ments port.''  for  participation  or  sup- campaigners and students, and to provide aproper amount of time for  little turnout for student sugges­tions so far."  
election rules, petitions to run for  No endorsements may be given by  Only  an  official  candidate  can  platform~  to be understood while  
office are due by 10 p.m., Feb. 26. Two hundred signatures and corresponding ID numbers are required for nomination of SBP/ ')BVP candidates. Only official .Jetitions are valid. These can be ;licked up at the Student Govern­ment office on Sunday, when a candidates' mandatory meeting will be held. Campaigning for office, upon which a $60 limit on expenses has been set, will not begin until Feb. 27. Receipts for all materials purchased are required by the Election Committee. If a candidate fails to disclose the proper cost of any campaign materials, he will be forced to forfeit his candidacy. Other election restrictions im­ the Hall Presidents Council as a body, or by the Student Govern­ment, Student Union, or the Board of Commissioners. No endorse­ments may be sought from any freshmen." Candidates cannot use any gathering of a.n organization for campaign purposes, even if they are members of that organization, or SO percent of campaign expenses will be deducted. In addition, no one may organize a campaign committee sooner than four weeks prior to election day, or 25 percent of campaign expenses will be deducted. Campaigning, under the rules, is defined as "any public contact--es­pecially the distribution of posters,  campaign and completed petitions are needed to make a candidacy official. Therefore, campaigning may not begin until the petitions are returned to the Election Com­mittee. Candidates may use any form of campaign materials except posters larger than 11 by 17 inches, and all posters must be displayed inside the dormitories and public build­ings. A copy of all posters must be submitted to the Election Commit­tee before posting. No moving vehicles with sound gear are allowed. The SBP/SBVP elections are overseen by the Ombudsman Elec­tion Committee, which is composed of five members of the Ombuds­ Politics workshop opens for all registered voters On Wednesday, Feb. 22, at 7:30 ventions will be present to p.m. at the YMCA, 802 N. Lafayet­the practical aspects of te in South Bend, practical politics delegate to the State workshop encouraging individuals and the responsibilities of to run for State Convention dele­gate once elected. gate will be beld for all interested a supply of the necessary ' registered voters. tion of Candidacy"forms provided. A Notary Public will be The workshop will offer the neces­there to notarize them. sary information on how, when, The workshop will be sponsoredand where to file to become a by the Woman's Center at thedelegate to the Republican or YMCA, the Women's PoliticalDemocratic State Convention. Caucus, the League of Women  


Tue::n...... 1,. I!Cuaucuy ....,. 1":1/tl 

. .. ... •
To my little Frenchman -Bob Dumard­
You're short on stature but not tight in 1'm saving your valentine hugs and the heart. Meet ya In the chapel. Happy kisses 'til the next wrestling match, but Love, Valentine's Day! my heart is yours now. Happy Valen­
Besides having the best cookies, the 
Dirt Jeeeeonie tine's day! Tlgger and Piglet send theirArchway has the best valentines too. 
love too.

Your Avid Admirer Nancy, Mary and Madeline:Bob NOBODY does it better (not for me "Boots" and the '"Belle" have runganyway!) their last...... !!! Happy V-Day.
Michelle O'Haren, Love, 
Giovannini •

I want your body Barb Klein-
The Rock 5th Floor PENTHOUSE: May your brownies always be magic.
Happy Valentina's Day!

Morrissey Loan Fund It's like being on cloud 9 (except Happy V-Day.
Love,

Happy Valentine's Day to RIP-ROARING between midnight and 4 a.m.) We love Tim
To my one and ONLY: Rodgers! you anyway!! Pat I Love You Bunches and Love, 
Moms Sue,
Bunches Forever and Ever! Rich, Wurf, Snake, Bunny Rabbit, Wea­
Lisa, I really miss you! H::1ppy Valentine's
Yours till the end of time. Chris, Since Oct. 25, 1975, pon, Wit, Boobie, Christina, Bernie, Day.Dean, Tom, little Jimmy, Jack "-ta,"
Jefferson I have known this special guy, Love,Loren, I know him now and love him lots, Boom-Trish
What do you take In gym class anyway? To Lovely "Emily!" That's you, 0'Pooh -you're what Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Happy Valentine's Day wants!! Love, However Italian,
Joe Gltand MoJo
Love, Happy Lubers Day. Do your kisses taste as good today?
Asecret Admirer PoohIa Wllowoman
To the Farley Ward Sargent. I lust for (no Lyon!) Dear Wlerd, Wlerd W, your seethlngly sensuous bod. Happy let's hear It for Dan, All my love, 
L.O.B.,

Valentine's day. Don Ron, Happy Valentine's Day!
The Megaphone Mouth King, It's been mallow madness our years
Love, love always,
Elephant size happiness for the tall Just let me say, okay man, together.
Dumb, dumb D
Andy tales from corn stalk. look-OUT when that phone rings. My love always,love, Meacanto
Happy Valentina's day J.D. Stud, Blondie Happy V-day This Is a poem for R.M.U., You always gat the lady In any game of Alii want to say is "I love you"
The 389Trlo Nlnks
hearts. For no matter how long I think and sit.
JAP and BAL in 408 Lyons, Happy Valentine's Day, You may not
I just can't match that Texan wit!
You are not forgotten on Valentine's Jimmy O'Pooh, be mine, but I'd sure like you to be.
Day. Today Is the day, Pubs
To the "All Girls are Creeps" Man:
HVD. I have picked to say, 

It's not true about me. I hope It's not
Karen Love, DLZ llub you, O'Pooh, Manse,
true about you either! Happy Valentine's
And Ain't nothln' you can do. This Is to fulfill a promise so you never
GIBB: Day!
Much love and sex to Miglior and go another Valentine's Day without any
love, The "All Men are..." Lady
Happy Valentina's Day. Manhood from Captain America. Happy V-day. recognition.
I love youll 
Poohlette Dear Club 420,
Nancy Marylou: Thanks for everything!

Be my KLIG: To "Field House VIew" (B-P),To the Folks and Family­a. Domino Thanks for bel ng there when I need Love, PO and B What gives?? Open those curtains!!Happy V-Day. b. Valentine you! No little boy could ever ask for a
The COED James Daniel Russell,
c. Token Wuss sweeter little girl. Happy Valentine's Dave,
You're cute! Happy Valentine's Day! 
Ken-Mike Day. When will you quit trying to surprise me?
Love and kisses
love, Thanks
Happy V-Day! JS: KS leslie Mitchum The least we could do for Terry Kath Is Jo, C., Mooch,
Wrestlin' Mike:

give him a small memorial party. To the Observer Mom-Who could ask for finer Valentines?
Congrats and happy valentine's day!
Griff: Rock Muslc Lover. You li~h up our lives. Happy M.
love,

Roses are red Valentines Day from your "KIDS". 
the Ice Cream Lady Looking forward to lunch with you. You were cuter at age six, but you are The Staff let this be recorded as a public 
Violets are blue, Terry Corrigan, love, Marjo, 
Beth B. Dearest Rob H.
still the greatest! Happy Valentine's declaration of my Intentions -you're the
You'll always be a special Valentine!
Day. Dear Bob, only girl for me!
Happy Valentine's Day to a no. Love, KEB Love, PO and B
Will shots give me (your) heartburne? Mushily yours,quarterback. Will you be mine? Hope you think they're too late-I do! Sugarman
Honky-

Cathy, Happy Valentine's Day. P.S. Don't tell my friends this Is me, ok?
Katie and Marla of Farley are cuties. As usual I won't be original. Happy Love, Happy Valentine's Day, kiddo! Hope 
Drew B. you get a phone call from the front desk
Valentine's Day. Kathy Curves:
today...

Love, You're short and you growl, but I think
love,

Steady Eddie, 
Doug Mfatlc Fingers: you're the greatest!
I love you a little, I love you a mighty, PS Keep an eye out for buses. love you. Your Roommate Richard the Eskimowhat can we do On Valentine nlghtv? 
George
Grape Jo-Jo: To mom and Dad In Iselin, N.J. 
Dear Martha, linda, and Mickey,

Manager staff of Alumni Travel Lodge: karen-Happy Valentine's Day to the greateat. Happy Valentine's Day!
K.T., LOVE those accommodations!! thanks for the best year of my life Love, "Donut Delight" you to be stuck In the Happy Valentine's Day! ken D.L. snow with me? Happy Valentine's Day. Love, SMW No-no ....LET'S EXTEND OUR WINNING 
JP 
Dear Klingon,

A very satisfied ctJstomer. STREAK..... Roses are red 
All I dream about now are "Bic Mac"
Carolyn, "2" Your nightgown was blue t.ttacks-Happy Valentine's Day!
Happy Valentine's Day sunshine! MJZ, Sara, Heis and Patti­I loved your socks love,
Not-so-old man Roses are red, Mary M: and your hairy chest too! your Canine Friend
Violets are blue. I lust for your lava. Me 
Boone: When we think of easy Rock 
Jim,

Hearts and flowers, We think of you! Trlsha, Our fourth Valentine's Day together
Love and Klsses Jen and Lisa Spud, Happy Valentine's Day. Are you I really miss you! Happy Valentine's and we're still going strong!
Happiest of Valentine's Days from your still a frog or are you back to normal? Day. 
I love you,Love,
Missus! Winking Killer, Stick to tootsie rolls instead of gum! Geralyn
All my love, One gorgeous look from you Is worth Streamfrog Jimmy Ms. M.S. countless kisses from any other man on campus. Can you imagine what your Tom F. S.Ad. kisses are worth? Valentine, Je t'aime You are remembered as a great friend 
L. and L. Is good these days. How's it beaucoup (roughly translated I love you) today.
for you? Slain. Happy Valentine's Day.Mike Love,
You can be sure that Annie's looking fine DLZ Cuz, Gep, Zeke, Stucker, Nuss and Mo · but my only conct~rn Is will she be my You gurs have made my senior year Valentine? Mom,
the best! love you all! HVD! Happy Valentine's Day, Annie! There are people I love in this world. Sally There are also people I know, respect,Ed, appreciate, trust and above all, love. You "J.R." You're the best "partner" there ever belong in the second classification. 
I can't afford roses... was. Thanks for a great year. Happy Happy V-day.Happy Valentine's Day. Valentine's Day. Sliver Blades 
Ombudsman committee organizes elections 
posed upon candidates inslude a buttons, ribbons, etc., and the man staff. Assisted by Mark Former Republican and Demo­Voters, and the I.U. School of ban on soliciting help from a person making of speeehes--used to solicit Woodward, Clark Carmichael is cratic delegates to the state con-Public and Environmental Affairs. 
'# ......... 115""' ....,.~_,,.,...,..""" ........__.....").: ~..,"'"""' .. ....., • ._,....,:."» ... ,.;c. ,.._ .. .., •.tP...t-··~t.,·f'~·$.. .r-1•• ....,... *" .....,...., .~.. ,t'.,..a 1",.~ _,_,... .3-·...,....~ •:"' .f';--.;,..'"'.o;.,. ..,;.....li ....•j 

.; . ,_., •.• ., '!.. ·. ..... ~ 


._._._.._.._.._.._._.._.._.._•._._._..._.._ __.._.._ _._._..._.._.._._..._.._ _.._._._.;_,._.~..,-T_ue_s_d_a_y:...;,_F_e_b_ru_a_ry_;__14--=--,_1_9_7_B______.t~.ah.l.llieL..lo bllls~D~e!.!rv!....!!.e~r'----!!.9
..... 


The Dean of Students Office at the request of the Maintenance Department is asking all students who park in the D-1 and D-2 parking lots to please move their vehicle to the C-4 and 'C-5 parking lots. 
The C-4 parking lot is directly south of the 
-~~ !jl!!!!llHC!W>
IN ia A&+ Cl$., 11. liB·, ··lOo~;.· 
llollon<B!!I~, "'"' , , , , ,, , , , , ::,•\: ·..
.MIA vi th l'h•:fAeet ~~-~un4 ·ozo:· ea~.~~·-~:t:O.-.+<::. · H!MS· c!fe~rt~~~~~~~:: :~~wt~• A~•~~ •. ~-~~-\!!f 
Cancelled, 
KPit A!ltOei!tH I 1-* 1111 to all Eng< aDd ~l ·.dtnipllnoo. 
~~!:.·:.rmr;...·~ Co 
tmt.l!!!ttl!lll"Rt;!tcil"" •l9!!tM!lt 9<9!!P ..·. 111C .ta 11, IC, 111. , ~ lloch, lloth, Coolp ~·· . ••t••~• of Bloct.Oiii!ie¢)Uoldc!l s,llt.,..; fori 
.,_!p, ....,,1.,...Pt !lid: ~l!!'i..t...., of •to~~~tlio .,.~ ~t•ctro~.._·~~·~ ·:-;J•~· t.H:Itt~~t_::::.. ~U••~.:: AUtlll OT ~ft; !l·=:·u.-..-.c.iftt:-t Cl~ Cit:~~~~~Lp "r•~.• 
B!cbt!l ,.,.... l1!m! IJIIi ta Cl, *• D, Cb*-, ~· 
Dettlill'a . . . .. . ... 
ll!IAL oljol:lltii 1111!1; 
1. l'. l!!!e!!rlcl! Cit 
• ...., liM. 
Low coal supplies force power cut 
[continued from page 1] 
illuminating sign. 

At the 40-day level, all dispens­
able uses of electricity, including 
night sports events and recreation­
al activities, would be eliminated. 
This apparently would affect both 
girls and boys' high school basket­
ball. as well as major college 
basketball at Indiana University, 
Purdue University and Indiana 
State University -all se~ed by 
Public Service Indiana. 

At the same time, a SO percent cut in power usage would be ordered for schools, colleges, uni­versities and other education insti­tutions. Commercial and industrial users would be hit with a 2S percent curtailment and residential customers with 1S percent. 
At the 30-day -level, schools would be cut back to a minimum needed for safety and mainten­ance, i-ndustries by SO percent and homes by 2S percent. 
If coal suppliers don't stabilize 
then, police and fire departments 
and hospitals could be cut back. 

"There's a likelihood that it (the 
plan) will cause some businesses to 
lay off some employees,'' Wallace 
said. 

William J. Watt, chief energy 
adviser to Gov. Otis R. Bowen, siad 
most industries can absorb a 1S 
percent power curtailment but 
beyond that level, "you are stuck 
with the reality of production 
cutbacks.'' 

Watt said that even with power­
sharing with other states and the 
importation of coal supplies, "the 
volumes are inadequate to halt the 
chipping away at our ~tockpiles.'' 
"We continue on a downward 
path, each day bringing us closer to 
more perilous circumstances.'' 

"The negotiations between the union and the bituminous operators are a shambles," Watt said. "there has been no meaningful response yet from the federal government. Voluntary conserva­tion, while gaining momentum at the present time, falls far short of forestalling mandatory measures." 
If necessary, the state plans to 
mobilize the Indiana National 
guard and state police to provide 
protection to transport coal from 
stockpiles and mine entrances, 
Watt said. 

"We'll plan for what we consider 
a reasonable level of security," he 
said. "Certainly there are mili­
tants out there. Dynamite sticks go 
offjust as well in Indiana as they do 
in West Virginia." 

Wallace said evidence at the 
public hearings indicated utilities 
had done all they could to build 
their coal stockpiles in anticipation 
,lf the strike. 

l ~ Accounting majors
J 
~ 
offer tax assistance 
by Anne Bachle 

I Staff Reporter 
1 
l 
~ 
i 
i 
~· 
i 
I 
~ ~ 
i 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
i 
~ 
r 
The College of Business and the Accounting department are once again sponsoring a Tax Assistance Program for students and South Bend residents who would not otherwise be able to afford tax assistance. 
Approximately forty senior ac­counting majors are involved in the program, which is designed to "provide service to low-income people in South Bend as well as to offer an educational experience for­the students," explained Kenneth Milani, associate professor of ac­counting. He and James Witten­bach, f assistant professor of ac­counting, are coordinators of the Tax Assistance Program. 
Students volunteer to participate in the program, for which they receive three hours of credit pass­fail. Milani and Wittenbach per­sonally select students to fill the director positions. This year the student director is Tom Desmond, Doug Stevens is the external contact director, Dan O'Connor is training and supplies director, and Aaron Watson and Kenn Ricci serve as public relations directors. 
Now in its seventh year, the program has expanded from one center open one day a week to a current total of ten centers located throughout the South Bend com­muntiy, including one on the Notre Dame campus. The centers are each open on a different day so that at least one center is now open every day but Sunday. 
In addition, the SWAT team (Students Working At Taxation) travels to Rochester, In., four Saturdays to provide tax assistance to people there, and will also be visiting nursing homes and a parish this year as well. "We realized some people have trouble getting to our centers, so we go to them," Milani explained. 

He said he feels this is what 
makes Notre Dame's tax assistance 
program different form those of 
other schools. "We go to where the 
people are," he said. Last year, the 
program processed 1,110 tax re 
turns. 

This is made possible though 
funds from both the Business 
College and the Accounting depart­
ment, as well as the fact that the 
tax forms, stamps and envelopes 
are provided by the state of Indiana 
and the U.S. government free of 
charge. 

Milani said he is very positive in 
his attitude towards the effects of 
the Tax Assistance Program. "It's 
really one of the best educational 
experiences a student can have 
while at Notre Dame,'' he said. 
Milani feels .this is so because the 
program offers students a chance 
"to utilize their technical skills to 
help people. From feedback we've 
learned that it's very valuable," he 
noted. 

"Students learn more than just 
how to do tax returns. They become 
familiar with parts of South Bend 
they're not aware of, and they have 
pretty close contact with the peo­
ple,'' he said. 

The Tax Program started last 
week and runs until April 1S. Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students 
desiring assistance should go to the 
LaFortune ballroom Mondays and 
Wednesdays from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
PACE form due on Feb. 28 

The Placement Bureau wants to 
remind students that Feb. 28 is the 
last day to register for the PACE 
exams. Forms can be picked up at 
the Placement Bureau, Room 213 ..of the Administration Building. 
Nlon-Thurs 5 -7 PM lUger & Beer $1.50 

Tuesday, February 14, 1978
10 the observer 
.) 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SPECIAL 
Come to a 
"Knowledge-is a reflection of reading"
FREE 
SPEED READING LESSON Increase Your Reading Speed 50-1 00°/o 


COMPARE AND DECIDE 
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc.  Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Inc.  
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your  Partial refund of the price of the  
DYNAMIC READING SPEED or you will receive a FULL  course if you fail.  
refund.  
Advanced Course  No known advanced course at this time.  
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to retake the  Their graduates are required to pay  
course to extend their skills at no additional charge.  a registration fee to retake the course.  
Our professional instructors are required to do extended  NO exams given.  
research after the initial training period for further insight,  
and take written exams.  
Our instructors are required to take reading proficiency  NO reading proficiency evaluations given.  
evaluations.  
20-50% discount on books.  NO discount on books.  
Tuition Assistance Payment  PI an  Contractual obligation with finance Charge.  
NO FINANCE CHARGE!!  

ATTEND A FREE LESSON Tuesday February 14 12 noon-2-4-6 Wednesday Feb. 15 12 noon -2-4 

All Meetings Held At The Center For Continuing Education Rm. 14 Downstairs 
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
•

A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing totally new concepts. 
1721 CROOKS RD., TROY, Ml 48084 (313) 366-1230 
Copyright 1977 Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
. .......... ·.• .·. 

Tuesday, February 14, 1978 
the observer 11 

Brademas announces: 
Endowment finances area ethnic groups'study 
by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 
The National Endowment for the Humanities recently made a $200,000 grant to document the history of ethnic groups in three cities across the nation, including South Bend. 
Third District Congressman John Brademas, who made the an­nouncement on Jan. 6, said that the program would be coordinated by the Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs in Washington. He added that the South Bend component would be carried out with the participation of 
' area colleges and universities, 
1 including Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University at South Bend, Bethel College and Indiana Vocational Technical Col­lege. 
The proposal for the endowment 
1 was written by two Notre Dame professors, John A. Kromkowski, assistant professor of government and international studies, and 
Tourney begins 
Students who have entered the Billiards Tournament should comp­lete their first round by Thursday. Participants should call their part­ners to arrange playing time. 
After the game, the results should be entered on the player board. The second round should be comp­leted within a week from Thursday. 
Applications due 
Applications for Student Union 
' director and controller are present­ly available in the Student Union office, on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center from 
8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Deadline for submitting applications is this Fri­day. 

NOTICES 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at 1 percent monthly Interest. $2Q-150. 1 day wait. Due In 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 11:15-12:15 M-F 
Typing Done Reasonable Rater Call 8086. 
Typing In home. Fast accurate, reason­able. Phone 272-7866 anytime. 
Boarding for horses (no stallions) Includ­ing covered arena one mile from Notre Dame. Call Dr. Ford 287-5806. 
Accurate, fast typing. MRS. DONOHO 232-Q746 Hours 8a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters 287­4971. 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best'' Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
FOR RENT 
Two furnished houses tor rent next school year -9 month lease. 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom -near NO off-street parking. Call 234-2626. 
For rent next school year. Completely furnished 4 bedroom house a couple blocks from campus. No security pro­blems. safe neighborhood. Easy walk to campus. Call 277-3604. 
LOST &FOUND 
Lost: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
Lost: One red and· green scarf, probably in South Dining Hall. Call 6326. 
~~~~---------­
Lost: Student basketball tickets around Dining H&IJ. Call 2141. 
Thomas F. Broden, director of the Institute for Urban Studies in South Bend. Kromkowski and Broden will coordinate the South Bend project. 
According to Kromkowski, the goal of the project is to bring ac.ademic humanists and ethnic historians together "to analyze the values of various ethnic traditions and apply those values to contemp­orary society.'' 
"We are concerned with the values of family, friendship, com­munity and helpfulness," Krom­kowski stated. "We want to collect information about ethnic values, disseminate that information and clarify American public values in light of the values of neighbor­hoods." 
Kromkowski explained that the three cities chosen for the project; Baltimore, Providence and South Bend, were selected because of their differing sizes, locations and ethnic mixtures. 
"Baltimore was chosen because of its large size," he commented. ''Providence is a smaller city, but it is located within a large metropolis. 
South Bend is a medium-sized city with a large mixture of ethnic groups." 
In South Bend, the project will focus on Polish, Hungarian, Bel­gian, Hispanic and Black Ameri­cans Kromkowski stated. He added that in Providence, the neighborhoods studied will be pri­marily Italian, while in Baltimore, the Polish, Finnish, Italian and Greek ethnic groups will be stud­ied. 
Specific plans for the South Bend project, according to Kromkowski, include making video tapes of older residents telling stories about the settlement of the South Bend area. 
He said they would also produce a readers' theater presentation con­sisting of video tapes and com­mentary, possibly to be shown in South Bend's Century Center. 
"We are looking for some visible product to use for teaching, not only in schools and universities, but also in the South Bend com­munity," he stated. 
Kromkowski said that the project will be completed in approximately one year. At the close of the project, a conference will be held in South Bend to discuss the findings of the study. 
Danehy: retirement age 'arbitrary' 
[continued from page 1] mittee on appointments and Prom­otions. Danehy called this policy "arbi­. trary" because of the "magic word 65" that determines at what age every person should retire. He said there are two reasons why people 
work  "to  earn  their  bread  and  
because  they  derive  satisfaction  
from work."  

Although many jobs may be tedious, he· said, "for those per­sons in professional or creative activities the satisfaction derived from their work may be so engros­sing that they would not slacken their pace if they never had to earn another cent.'' 
A ''just and reasonable retire­ment policy for an educa'ional institution, if the policy is to be equitable, must take into consider­ation the best interests of both the institution and the individual facul­ty member," Danehy explained. 
"The welfare of the individual faculty member requires both that he have the opportunity for contin­uing employment so long as he wishes it and is able to meet the standards required of everyone else, and that he be treated with dignity and human consideration,'' he continued. 
"Age should be eliminated en­tirely as criterion for the termina­tion of tenure or for determining the time of retirement for an individual faculty member," he declared. 
He suggested that at age 60 the faculty member and his depart­ment head should meet to discuss the needs of the department and the performance and aspirations of the individual. 
Danehy stated that 65 was chosen as arbitrary retirement age by Otto von Bismarck when he began the first Social Security System in Germany, "the drafters of our US Social Security System in 1936 simply accepted the German precedent," as well as did private pension plans. 
Congress is presently consider­ing legislation to prohibit private employers from terminating em­ployment on the basis of age before that of 70 and President Carter has said he would sign such a bill, Danehy said. However, the Senate bill contains the provision that tenured college professors, as well as business executives with a retirement income of over $20,000 would be excluded, he added. 
Statistics show that "the age distribution curve of the American population is shifting rapidly and inevitably toward the higher ages," Danehy noted. Because of this, "it is clear that there will be a gradually increasing demand that older workers continue, not only for the sake of staffing the work force, but so that the drain on the Social Security System will be lightened.'' 
A recemt questionnaire sent to retired NotreDame faculty asked if they would have preferred to retire at a later or earlier age they they did. Of those who disclosed that they retired at age 65, Danehy reported the results: "It may well be that as many as 65 percent of the respondents preferred to work past 65." 
some argue thatforced retirement at age 65 makes room for younger faculty to move up and prevents the "accumulation of deadwood," Danehy said. But, he replied, "the total number of (retired faculty) who wanted to continue is less than 
Lost: A pair of large brown-framed eye­glasses in a brown case. Reward. Call Rocky 1773. 
Lost: Silver wire-framed glasses outside ACC before Maryland game. Call 1475. 
Lost: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat. nite. Special X-mas present-reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
Found: 1student hockey ticket. If you can identity it, it's yours again. Cali 8655. 
Lost: A pocket camera somewhere be­tween North Dining Hall and Admini­stration building on Saturday of snow­storm. Please call Ruth 1317. 
Found: A valuable pen, between O'Shag and Chern. Eng. Bldgs. Call 3869 to claim. 
Lost: San Francisco license plate-key chain with name "Maureen." Please call 
6856. 
Lost: One blue ski glove (left hand), between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thursday, Feb. 2 approx 4:45 p.m. If found, please contact George at 1248. 
WANTED 

Ride to FortLauderdale tor 2 girls tor spring break. Will share driving & expenses. Call Jean or Mo 4-1-4001. 
Need Marquette tickets. Student or GA. Call Brian 272-5843. 
Need 6 GA and 5 student tickets for the Marquette game. Will pay big bucks! Call Kevin 287-5737. 
Need 2GA tickets for Loyola B-ball game. Call 6740. 
Need ride for three to the New York City area for spring break. Call Doug, John, or Tom at 3414. 
Need 1 or 2 female apt. mates. N D apts. Call 284-4953 or 288-8767. 
My Marquette Grad father needs 2 tix badly. Will pay much $$$. Please phone 1735. 
Classified Ads 
Roommate wanted to share 3 bedroom diC 981 turntable, only 3 months old. house at Corby and Hill with two male Comes with Shure M91 ED Cartridge,students. Rent is $84 per month. Please walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. call 288-2991. Call 3058. 
Need 2student or GA Marquette tickets. Month-old DR-51-11 Texas Instrument Call Claire 289-6533. calculator. Regular $60 sell $45. 8976 
John Will pay big $$ for NO-Marquette tix! Call John 3829. Frozen Yogurt machine. Great for money­
minded student. Refreshing tor the warm Female wanted to share spacious 2-days ahead. Call Erma at Taco Rico 
badroom apt. $75 per month after 5 p.m. 291-3142. Call 289-8015. 
Flanner Records album sale: All $7.981ist Need ride to Pittsburgh area after Wed­LP's only $4.99. All $6.98 list LP's onlynesday. Call Val 7088. $4.49 (plus tax) Sale ends Sunday Feb. 
19, Fianner Records 322 Flanner Phone 
Need 4 Ga tickets to any weekend home 2741. basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
Eight "Studio sarles" BASF blank reel to Need 2 Marquette Gtickets. Call Diane real tapes. These professional 1800 foot 7883. studio tapas are still In factory wrap. Only 
$40. Call Gena at 1694. 2Marquette tix. Will pay reasonable sum of$. Cai11612. 
1 am in dire need of 2 Marquette b-ball tix. Will pay your price. Call 1612. ~ERSONALS 
NEED U~ TO 8 GA TIX FOR MAR­Dear kids, QUETTE GAME. CALL 1m. I am temporarily out of retirement. G Need 2or 4 Marquette tix. 8504 or 8502. 
R.B. Need Ga Marquette tickets. Will pay You're welcome! money. Chris 283-1023. E.W.-Section 102 
Desperately need 4Ga Marquette tickets. SAM WILLIS, Call 1423. Happy VD!!! 
Love always!Need 10 Marquette tickets. Make offer. Call Joe 234-0980. Much fun, 
It's best to examine the way you are Ride needed to IU Bloomington Feb. 17 Before you excape in "the way we were" Call Hal1171. Though just a woman's point of view 
The ad proved you to be immature. Seniors, looking for a little extra cash fo1 Civility always,this semester, but only want to work om Cute 
or two days per week? Pizza Hut a Edison Rd. is looking for people like you Andrew, Call 233-3827. I think we should start our tete-a­
tetes a little earlier. God knows I need myNeed tix to Marquette. Call Kate 1264. beauty rest. G 
Need ride to Fort Wayne Friday, Feb. 17. Do it\\ Apply for paid positions for the 
Call Diane 7813. SMC 21 Club Bar Applications available at Student Affairs Office, LeMans Hall. It could change your life 
Two Marquette GA tickets. Will pay top FOR SALE Ken Perantoni, dollar. Pahl 6755. Oh, Handsome One, how I long to see 
New GE 19" color TV won in raffle. your shining countenance when we are 2tickets for NC State game. Call Rich or $300.00 Call 287-1972. apart!!! Me Joe 1173. · 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now Call Michael Doyle of Alumni Hall at n2 2 tickets for Marquettr Call Rich 1173. available. Call 8982. or 1197 to wish him a Happy Bir~hfi; 
one percent of the faculty, in a faculty in which the annual turn­over approaches 20 percent per year." 
Also, he noted that a "teacher's mental facilities" do not neces­sarily diminish at age 65. In view of the administration's reserved right to dismiss a tenured faculty member for serious cause, "there is not rational justification for termination of tenure or employ­ment at any age, per se." 
Referring to recent legislation developments, Danehy noted that ''compromise with discrimination is still present. It still permits the termination of employment on the basis of age alone, although not before the age of 70. However, the events of the last dozen years give ample justificiation for the hope thatbeofre the next dozen years have passed, termination of em-p ployment based on age alone will be banned absolutely nation­wide." 
Danehy's lecture was the second in the "Forum on Aging" series. The next lecture will take place Feb. 27. 
Hank &Duffy,  
Happy Valentine's men,you!!  Day,  you  gorgeous G  
Michael Doyle,  

Is It true that you like woman In thalr pajamas? Love, Nightgown Lady 
To Pete, Pat, Frank, Steve, Mike &Bill, Long time no see! What's new?? G 
Michael DoYle, Happy birthday sweet­heart. Love &Kisses, All the women who love you. 
Rock, Happy V-day kiddo! 
G 

Kalamazoo, Come live with me In sin. Toledo 
That's disgusting! 
Jay &Jan, You knew I couldn't neglect you! I will be nice, though. I'm mellowing in my old age. Happy V-day! 
G 

Need 4 GA tix for Marquette SMC 4530 Betsy 
Haircuts Cheap styles, trims. AMC Betsy 4530 
Monica, Happy, happy Valentine's Day, my love! A Secret Admirer 
Hey Vogel, that was for you! 
Need up to 8 Marquette tix. Call 1772. 
I feel deprived -I haven't given myself an anonymous Valentine Personal. No great loss, though, at times my humor is a little off-color, right Sar.1my??? 
JJ &Kevin, Hi guys!! Happy V-day! G 
Hey, Deebles, I hear you wrote to Candy and not to me!! I'm crushed!! Are you still alive?? Are your dialing fingers broken?? Such abuse on V-day!! So sorry! Have a happy one! 
Love, G 

Gump, J~~ --.,, & Crew, Happy V-oay!! 
_.....-----~-~·-:----~--........;e'=:;:?:':. _:_--=--:._ .,_ifM,.a• • _.!:!!!~. __.2iaiiiiiiiiii2:... ____ 
12 the oburvar Tuesday, February 14, 1978 

by Paul Mullaney ded their winning streak to 76. Sports Writer The "top··ranked" foilsman could only win a mere 28 of 36 
Two months ago coach Mike bouts, while the sabremen tallied Decicco revealed that the foil squad one more victory in as many on his 1978 Irish fencing team attempts. would be the strongest of the three In all fairness to DeCicco, how­weapons. ever, two months is a long time. 
After all, defending NCAA foil Things are not quite the same as gold medalist Pat Gerard was to they were on that December after­bring a 115-16 record into his noon of prognosis. 
senior year. Also returning was After missing the opening day of senior Mike McCahey, who had action a week-and-a-half ago, be­posted a three-year ledger of cause of the flu, sophomore Bjorne 109-17 and won the Notre Dame foil Vaggo began his Notre Dame bid to the NCAA tournament in his fencing career this Saturday. first two years. Vaggo, winner in all of his 11 epee 
On that same December after­bouts this week, was ranked lOth noon DeCicco rated his '78 sabre nationally in Sweden before enroll­squad as having the next best ing at du Lac this semester. potential, his reason being the Vaggo's arrival on the Irish return of Mike Sullivan. The junior fencing scene, coupled with the All-American owns the highest impressive early-season showings all-time Notre Dame winning per­of Kica and c;rew, has proven that centage, losing only twice in 121 few schools will give the Irish bouts. trouble on the epeestrip. 
By process of elimination Although Vaggo is a serious DeCicco, last year's fencing threat to Kica's post-season tour­''Coach of the Year," had labeled nament possibilities, nobody is as the epee team for the upcoming happy for Bjorne's presence at season as the weakest of the three Notre Dame than the epee captain. classifications. The reasons were "He's nothing but a positive obvious. influence on the team,'' said Kica 
All-Americans Tim Glass and Ed of the veteran transfer. "His mere silver Fellows had graduated from the presence has improved everyone's weapon, leaving it with somewhat fencing. Ht~'s pushing all of us, Championship this summer in Port­Mickus. Valdiserri was victorious of a alck of experience. Elected just as we're trying to help him. land Oregon. ******* in all of her five bouts on Saturday. epee captain Bill Kica was a I'm shooting for the NCAA "I believe myself to be a much Notre Dame's women's foil team St. Mary's swordswomen de­foilsman by trade, but had to be tourney (each school sends only better foil fencer than epee fen­defeated Milwaukee Area Tech, feated Milwaukee Area Tech, 6-3, switched this year to solidify the one representative per weapon), cer," noted Kica. "I enjoy fencing 6-3, and was knocked off by a and were defeated by Northwes­
highly regarded Northwestern tern, 9-0. Deborah Valentino wonepee group. Only John Strass and and he's helping me wttn his foil more than epee," which is team, 5-4. Despite the loss to three of SMC's six triumphsTom Cullum had epee experience experience. He's real Notre Dame tougher for me. · Northwestern, captain Cathy Val-against M.A.T.C.
before, both fencing in the shadows material --a real sportsman." "But it was in the best interest of 
. ·.·. ·.·.-:.·-:.:.·­

of Glass and Fellows. Kica's progress has had a great the team for me to switch to epee. Ted Robinson·::::·::::--:.::·-::-;:-:··· 
Nobody was to expect anything deal to do with the unexpected That's why I went to work this outstanding from the epeeists, not success that the epee team is summer trying to perfect my epee even Kica, Strass, Cullum and enjoying. Knowing that he would talents. I want to do my best for 
'Rookie Might'
Company. But after witnessing be fencing a new weapon his senior the team." the fencing Irish in action this past year, Kica took advantage of any I Saturday, one has to understand opportunity he had this summer to 
*Observer Man's Views
:_:_::::::::::One

why DeCicco never tried to put better himself in epee. Jimmy the Greek out of business. He took part in a Pentathalon at 
A time-tested tradition in sports is "Rookie Night." Many pro teams The "inexperienced" epee squad Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio, and some colleges participate in this ritualistic initiation of the new captured 31 out ot36 bouts during Texas, whert~ one of the events was 
sports 
members. It's usually embarassing, often times funny, and sometimes Saturday's competition as the de­fencing, exclusively in epee. 
demeaning.

fending national champions exten-Kica also was a member of the 
But, to become part of the team, it is a ritual that has to be held. Well, Leon Spinks has his "Rookie Night" tomorrow night in Las Vegas. The only difference is that his rookie night has a prize which none of the others can match.
Notre Dame wrestlers fall 
If Leon passes his test without embarassing or demeaning himself, season. was he can walk away as the heavyweight boxing champion of the world.
by Brian Beglane Torres 6-2 for the 134 pound He moved up for Saturday's meet and it proved to be Only one obstacle stands between Spinks and his goal--MuhammadSports Wri_ter victory. 
Ali. .
Tom Cua followed suit for the the right move, as he defeated Dreger, who is the defending NCIT It has been mentioned in this space that Ali should not be in the ring. 
The Notre Dame wrestling team Blue Streaks with a 12-5 decision That, instead, he should have t show with Howard Cosell where thedid something this past Saturday over Notre Dame's Dave Welsh. champ at 177. 
two perform silent comedy a Ia Shields and Yarnell.
which it had not done in a while. Cua is a National Catholic champ­The 190 pound bout saw a But boxing needs Muhammad Ali like a bee needs honey--forThe Irish grapplers lost to John ion and his experience took its toll rematch from the consolation finals survival. The only problem is that boxing needs an Ali-Spinks matchup Carroll University 19-12 in a match on Welsh, who is a sophomore. of the NCIT between ND's Joe like South Bend needs more snow.
at the Blue Streaks' home in "Dave was a little nervous Curletta and Mike Trautman of Let's look at our All-American hero, Leon Spinks. He won a goldCleveland. The last time Notre wrestling against Cua and after a John Carroll. The outcome was medal in the 1976 Olympics as a light heavyweight. With a dearth ofDame tasted defeat was exactly one while Cua's experience took over," almost exactly the same, with competent heavyweights existing, Spinks' managers wisely directedmonth ago today when it lost to noted coach Sepeta. "Torres lost a Trautman coming out on top 10-1. 
him into that weight class. They have also directed him right to the top. 
Southern Illinois 27-12. very hard fought match and Elliot In the National Catholic tourna­Spinks is a rookie. His entire professional experience consists of 31
Coach Ray Sepeta's grapplers just wore him out with leg man­ment the Blue Streaks' wrestler rounds in a total of seven bouts. Many of those bouts were staged by
were riding a five meet win streak euvers." won 9-2. 
CBS for use on their "Sports Spectacular" program by pitting Spinks going into Saturday's match. It was The Irish were far from being out 
Bob Golic ended the night on a 
against weak opponents. 
just a week ago that Notre Dame of the picture just yet, and Pat 
winning note for the Irish with a 6-0 
With those thirty-one rounds under his belt, Spinks now receives histook the National Catholic champ­McKillen kept things in focus for 
decision over Bill Kahl in the 
first test. He starts with the champion. It's like a biology teacher giving ionship away from John Carroll but Notre Dame with a 3-2 win over 
heavyweight division. Kahl put up 
a final on the first day of class. Spinks has as much right being in thethe Blue Streaks avenged that loss. Nick Cipollo in the 150 pound 
a defensive match and Golic did 
ring with Ali as you or I do. Yet, he will probably come off smelling like 
"I went into the match hoping match. For McKillen it was his 
everything but pin him. 
a rose.

for just one win out of the first four ninth straight victory and 17th of 
"Bob wrestled very well and 
Why? Because the fight will attract a large number of free-spending bouts. We got two victories, the year. 
Kahl had to grapple defensively all 
people to Las Vegas, none of whom will expect. to see a three-roundhowever, so we started out great,'' Then came the turning point of 
the way," noted coach Sepeta. 
bout. Since CBS will televise the bout in prime time, they will have
noted Sepeta. the evening's match. The 158 
"Bob did all he could to pin him. 
time to fill. CBS certainly won't want to be caught the way NBC was in
George Gedney and Dave DiSa­pound bout featureed a rematch "There is no way we took this the Ken Norton-Duane Bobick fight last spring. 
bato got Notre Dame started on the between the two finalists from the match for granted. You can never .So, instead of teaching Spinks a quick lesson, Ali will likely lay back tight track, winning handily in the National Catholic tournament, do that against John Carroll. The for five to seven rounds and let Spinks punch himself into the ground. 
118 and 126 pound weight classes Mike Padden of Notre Darpe and long car trip wore us out a little and Whether Ali could put Spinks or anyone else away in the early stages of 
respectively. JCU's Vitas Kijauskas. Padden we wrestled sluggishly most of the the fight is still in question. Ali's tremendous ability to take a punch is 
Gedney defeated Dan Stefancin had heated Kijauskas 11 -1 in the way. We started out great but still intact, as his last outing against Ernie Shavers demonstrated. 
7-1 for NO's first win. The junior NCIT but Saturday saw a reversal 
could not hang on." The likelihood that a novice like Spinks could take Ali's title is slim.
from Pensacola. Fla., was a runner­of that outcome. Kijauskas beat But, the fact that he is getting a chance says something about boxing. 
up for the second straight year in the ND senior S-3. The Irish take their 8-4 record to It says that boxing can do the best con job on the American public.
the National Catholic tournament "Mike was a little flat from the the Wheaton tournament this Fri­Wrestling and roller derby should learn a lesson from promoters likethat took place at the ACC Feb. 5. long car ride and could not gain day and Saturday. They finished Don King and Bob Arum. Then, maybe Bruno Sammartino can comeDiSabato followed suit for the control of the match. His riding fifth last year and coach Sepeta out or retirement for the sixteenth time and fight Ali for a combinedIrish with a 6-3 victory over John time was fine but he just could not looks to move up from that finish. 
championship.

Jackson. DiSabato lost to Jackson get the upper hand. Somehow, this "This season is long and has Tomorrow night's fight also marks that return of Muhammad Ali,in the finals of the NCIT but just seemed to turn things around started to get hard on a few the entertainer. Muhammad Ali, the boxer, faded away after therevenge was sweet for the sopho­in the meet," observed Sepeta. 
wrestler. It has been difficult to "Thriller in Manila." Perhaps Ali can still summon one last great fight more as he defeated his opponent The Irish did not see victory until keep up their weights and we are for the anticipated rematch with Ken Norton. Perhaps Ali will quit
soundly. Bob Golic won the heavyweight getting a little anxio~s to finish. before having to ftght Norton again. Perhaps Ali will lose tomorrow
"Dave had lost to Jackson 9-4 bout. In between Notre Dame lost 
We know it's out job ot ftnish it night.
last week in the tournament but three straight matches and with right, though, and that is how we But, I seriously doubt that Ali will lose to a rookie. Nothing can beatSaturday he wrestled very well and them went the meet. 
intend to do it," noted the third experience, and Leon Spinks will find that out in a hurry. Spinks'beat him solidly. At this point of Kevin O'Neill of John Carroll 
year coach. manager Spinks' one weakness lack
the rnatch I was very pleased," beat Mike Wilda 9-5 for the 167 said yesterday that is a of 
commented Sepeta. pound win. Rob Dreger lost to "We can do well in this tourna­self-discipline, which should really help him against Ali. Welcome to John Carroll bounce-' · ' from JCU's Jim Weir 10-5 in the 177 ment but we cannot let up. Ifwe do 
the Duane Bobick fan club. One Chicago sportswriter compared Spinks meeting Ali to Earvinits first two setbacks WILli two wins pound match. Weir has won the that we'll have trouble. Marquette Johnson playing in the NBA. there's only one difference. Johnson has in the 13<~ -,d 142 po· ·ttd classes. NCIT title four straight years and won it last year but I think we can some "magic" which Spinks could use.
lal'l'Y E .eat Irish~ ~stler John took the 167 pound title this do well." 






