To deal with overcrowding 
McKenna appoints CLC subcommittee 
by Sue Wuetcher in response to a memorandum and draw conclusions. According Grace-O'Hara for undergraduates, In other business, the CouncilStaff Reporter 

submitted by Student Body Vice to Roohan, there was no action and moving seniors off campus by amended the press policy that was Chairman Andy McKenna President Mike Roohan. The taken last year, and that's why the lottery. · adopted at the last m~eting. formed a subcommittee to address memorandum analyzed the prob­problem exists now. Observer Editor Tony Pace noted
Roohan said that the best idea the problem of on-campus over­lem of on-campus crowding and Roohan' s alternatives include would be to convert Saint Joseph's, that giving members of the council 

crowding at last night's Campus offered various alternatives. converting Saint Joseph's, Colum­Columba or Brownson. "This the right to strike their remarks Life Council meeting. The commit­Roo han said that he felt the trend ba, or Brownson Halls to under­would be meeting the demand,'' he made it difficult for the reporter tee consists of Fr. Richard conyers, for overcrowding was increasing. graduate dorms, not letting trans­covering the meeting to do a good
said. "The others would deny

rector of Keenan, and students ''There is an increased demand for fer students on campus, moving job. He added that since all
people the residential life that's so 

Mary Ryan, Kurt Wesslen, and students to live on campus," he out peripherals from dorms, such special here at Notre Dame." meetings are open, all remarks Gary Luchini. said. He stated that the Council as the travel agency and barber should be on the record. The subcommittee was initiated should address the problem now shop from Badin, taking over Conyers noted that Columba Hall is under contract with the Holy 
McKenna agreed, remarking Cross Brothers, and that the Ad­
that "it should be open to every­minstration would have to work 
one, or not open at all." something out with the brothers. 
The Council maintained the 
John Van Wolvlear vice president policy of open meetings, but for Student Affairs, closed the reserved the right to call "execu­question saying that the hall in tive sessions" in which only council under a lease with about 40 members will be allowed to attend. 
brothers living there. 
The occurrance of these sessions is 
Conyers suggestedthat theCoun­expected to be very infrequent. cil review and find out what Defending this position, Conyers overcrowding really means, and said, "There will be times when it analyze how space in the individual will not be diplomatic to have dorms is being used. everything which is said at the 
meeting to be printed in the news­Edmund Price, director of under­paper."
graduate housing, added that the total situation must be evaluated. The last item on the agenda was "Just crowding people into spaces a report. by Fr. Mario Pedi on the is like crowding people into barns. subcommittee examining the There has to be adequate electrical Council's constitution. Pedi noted outlets and bathroom facilities," he that the disbanded Student Life commented. Council has legislative powers, 
with only Fr. Theodore HesburghMcKenna stated that while the holding veto power. He remarkedlong-run solution would be to build that this was the first year thata dorm, the council should concern DuLac was the work of the Dean ofitself with the short-term solution Students. Pedi said that when theof finding more space on campus, CLC replaced the SLC the Adminis­and making off-campus living more tration felt it no longer had theattractive. He appointed the legislative responsibilities. 
subcommittee "to attain a realistic assessment of the living capacity The subcommittee will present its on campus and to do a preliminary findings concerning this loss of survey of students to assess condi­legislative power at the next tions for next year." meeting, Oct. 9, in Howard Hall.


e. 



server 
an independent student newspaper serving notrt• dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XIII, No. 21 
Worst air disaster in U.S. history claims 141 lives 
SAN DIEGO [AP) -A packed Boeing 727 collided head-on with a small plane flown by a student pilot yesterday, and both planes crashed in flaming fragments into a popu­lous resiential area. Officials said at least 141 persons were killed in the worst air disaster in U.S. history. 
The pilots of both planes had been warned that they were on a collision course, and both acknow­ledged the warning, Federal Avia­tion Administration spokesman Bruce Chambers said in Los Ange­les. The National Transportation Safety Board was analyzing cockpit tapes. 
Burning debris from the Pacific Southwest Airlines jetliner rained down and ignited at least nine wood frame houses and two busi­nesses. Parts of burned bodies dropped onto rooftops and into streets. The neighborhood's mostly elderly residents tried franti­cally to douse the flames with garden hoses, sending clouds of gray-black smoke billowing over the area. 
The Federal Aviation Adminis­tration said none of the 136 persons aboard PSA flight 182 from Sacra­mento survived the collision. Both persons in the rented Cessna 172 were killed. 
At least three persons on the ground were killed by falling bodies and debris or the resulting fires. At least six others were treated at local hospitals. 
The burning wreckage gutted half a block of homes. Bill Gibbs, president of Gibbs Flying Service in San Diego, said the Cessna carried a student pilot and a Gibbs flying instructor. Gibbs said the student was making an instrument approach to the airport when the collision occurred. _ 
''They hit head-on, it was unbe­lievable, ·• said Lt. George Farrell, 31, a Navy flight surgeon. He said the 727 went into a tailspin, "what we call a graveyard spin in the Navy with the other plane trailing after it." 
Police and firemen cordoned off the area, but a curious crowd of 4,000 to 5,000 onlookers jammed in to look at the grim scene. At least 20 ambulances lined 33rd street. 
The collision occurred about 3,000 feet above the ground on a clear day some three miles from Lindbergh Field, this city's main airport, only a few miles from the downtown area. 
Fr. Tom Bonica of St. Augustine High School said he and other priests "roamed the streets and alleys" near the crash scene looking for bodies to annoint. 
"I anointed at h·ast 50 bodies myself," said Bonica "As bad as it was, it could have been much worse. There are . at least two schools and several churches in the neighborhood.'' 
One of the victims on the ground was identified by her brother as Darlene Watkins. The brother, Sam Rush, said a piece of the fiery 

[continued on page 7] 
Tuesday, September 26, 1978 



r 
I 
F 

Prof. Peter Walshe and 16 government and international studies students discussed the films "Neur" and "last Grave at Dimbazi" after their showing last night. The films were presented as part of the Third World Film Festival. Photo Ruth Kolcu 
Alumni Board convenes at Notre Dame 
by Brian McFeeters 

The Alumni Board of Directors will meet at Notre Dame Thursday and Friday to report on committee activities and plan events. 
The Executive Board and several standing committees will meet Thursday morning after an address by the Dean of the college of Arts and Letters, Isabel Charles. Later, student activities' and goals for 1978-79 will be discussed by Stu­dent Body President ~ndy McKen­na. 
The spouses of Board members, also invited to the meeting, will hear Coach Joseph Yonto speak Thursday morning. They will join the board in attending a mass for deceased alumni that evening. 
Provost 0. Timothy O'Meara will speak at a dinner Thursday night for Board members and their spouses. Special guests from the Department of Public Relations and Development will also attend and the Glee Club will perform. 
Friday meetings with Alumni Association President Anthony F. Earley, '47, presiding, will allow various committees to report to the whole board. Financial reports and Nomination Committee recom­mendations for 1979 board candi­dates will be among the topics discussed. Club programs, class reunions, and other activities also 

[coadaaed oa .-ae 7] 


Tuesday, September 26, 1978

the observer 
News Briefs____.........._. 
t========:====:=::::====:=::::====:=::::=:::::=: Wo rid 
rench nuclear sub gets OK 
PARIS [AP)-French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing yesterday gave the go-ahead to start construction next year on a nuclear submarine carrying a "new generation" of nuclear missiles. It will be France's sixth nuclear submarine and is expected to be launched around 1985, a statement released by the Elysee Palace said. The sub will be the first to be armed with new M4 nuclear missiles. 
Terrorist held in Moro case 
ROME [AP) · Corrado Alunni, reputed leader of the Red Brigades terrorist gang, has been taken secretly from a Milan jail to Rome to be observed by witnesses to the kidnapping of slain ex-Premier Aldo Moro, police sources said yesterday. Alunni, 30, was arrested Sept. and his arrest was considered a breakthrough in the Moro abduction-murder investigation. 


r=======:::::::============:::::=::====:::::=::::::: National 

II.A..Or~ker sees SALT agreement 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. [API -Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker said yesterday that he expects the United States and Russia to reach initial agreement on strategic arms limitation this fall. Baker said he does not know what a Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty might contain, but the Tennessee Republican added, 'I will oppose such a treaty unless I am sure· that treaty will not deter the military preparedness of the country." 
Teen shot playing .football 
CHICAGO [API -A teenager was shot and killed while playing football on the front lawn of a senior citizens' home, and police charged a 76-year-old resident who had complained of youths playing there in the past. Henry Moore was accused of shooting Lawrence Stephens on Sunday night. Moore allegedy came out of the home to complain about the game and began to quarrel with the youths, authorities said. Detective T.V. Minton said the man may have meant to fire a warning shot to scare the youths. 
lderly read newspapers les 
WASHINGTON [API -Persons aged 18 to 24 read newspapers as much now as they did 10 years ago, but readership among older age groups has declined as much as 13 percent, according to a study released by the American Newspaper Publishers Association. The report stated that the current newspaper marketing strategy of catering to the interests of younger readers is failing to address the major reason for circulation drops -loss of the older reader. 

Weather 

Mostly sunny today with highs in the low and mid 70's. Fair and warmer tonight with lows in the upper 40s and the low 50s. Partly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with highs near 80. 
On Campus Today_~ 
4:15pm lecture, gomar ward, vice-pres. dupont ind., spon. by nd marketing club, 122 hayes-healy. 
4:30pm seminar, "ovarian development in an autogenous ,...~squito," nd t=-rof. morton fuchs, 278 galvin 
6:31 1 pm• 

meeting, alpha phi omega, zahm basement 
7 pt'l discussion, fr. hesburgh, howard hall 
7,9, 11 pm film, "butch cassidy & the sundance kid," spon. by junior class, engr. aud., $1 
7:30pm reading, orit. fiction, prof. walter davis, nd english dept., mem. lib. lounge 
7:]0 pm lecture, "ceramic arts of west africa," by dan mato, univ. of manitoba, spon. by soc. & anthro. depts., cce aud. ­
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sherri Mummert \sst. Night Editor: Sue \Vuetcher L.1yout Staff: John Smith, Tom 'imith, Dave Brosh, Brigid Mast Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Feat.ures Layout: Cindy Mc­K iel, Cazzo Sports Layout: Mauch Perry Typists: Marty Nevin, Tom Pipp, Rosie Rodgers, Pete 
McFadden Early Morning Typist: me (eroneously refered to as him in last Friday's paper. Day Editor: John Ferroli Copy Reader: Debbie (my) Dahrling Ad Layout: David E. Wood Photographer: Dave Rumbach 
Paper  of  week  last  week:  
Frank  Kebe  and  the  Friday  
staff  

Over $375,000 



Money granted for research 
The University has accepted $375,903 in awards for the month of August to support individual fac­ulty research projects and innovat­ive educational programs, accord­ing to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice president for advanced. studies. 
A wards for research totaled $232,803 and included: --$72,142 from the National Science Foundation for develop­ment of a combined experimental/ analytical technique for stress in­tensity factor determination by Dr. Mitchell Jolles, assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engin­eering. 
--$65,629 from the National Institutes of Health · (NIH) for studies of metals in kinases and related enzymes by Dr. Thomas L. Nowak, assistant professor chemis­try. 
--$38,767 from NIH for study of core absorption spectroscopy of metalloporphyrins by Dr. Robert G. Hayes, professor of chemistry. 
--$26,139 from Amoco Product­ion Company for experimental carbon dioxide-hydrocarbon phase studies by Drs. James P. Kohn and Draemer D. Luks, professors of chemical engineering. 
--$18,528 from NIH for a study of parents of juvenile diabetics and medical compliance by Dr. Joan Aldous, Kenan professor of 

sociology,  and  Katrina  W.  
Johnson,  doctoral  candidate  in  
sociology.  

--$8,598 from the U.S. Air Force for a study of transportation costs as a consideration in Air Force contracts by Dr. James R. Stock, assistant professor of mark­eting. 
--$3,000 from the Indiana Arts Commission for establishing an archive program for Ivan Mestrovic art works and materials by Dr. Dean A. Porter, director of the Art Dr. John E. Matthias, associate professor of English, and Dr. Vladeta Vuckovic,' associate profes-
The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam end vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S20 per year 1$10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46H6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer is e member of the Anocleted 'Preu. All repro. ductlon rights ere reserved. 

Disco, Rock & Roll , dance floor, pinball, pool tables, foosball••• 
Tuesday Night 
Progressive Beer Special 
9:00·way below normal price 




Save eat y 
2046 Se Bend Ave.
StQy IQte 
across from Campus VIew 
sor of mathematics. ment held by Dr. Salvatore J. Awards for educational programs Bella, ch11irman of management. totaled $143.100 and included: 
--$7,400 from the Department --$85,300 from the U.S. Office of Energy for graduate studentof Education for a grant and traineeships administered by Dr.
fellowship program in the Center K.T. Yang, professor of aerospacefor the Study of Man in Contem­and michanical engineering.
porary Society directed by Dr. 
Julian Samora, professor of socio­--$400 from the Indiana Com­
logy and anthropology. mittee for the Humanities for a 
--$50,000 from the Houston Shakespeare film series directed by Endowment, Inc. for the Jesse Dr. Paul A. Rathburn, associate .Jones Professorship of Manage-professor of English . 



Legal advice offered 
The Notre Dame Legal Aid and ents must qualify under Legal Aid Defender Association's Student Income Standards to be eligible. Legal Services division will assist These second and third-year law all qualified University students students can give legal advice and with their legal problems. Stud-can represent those students who 
cannot afford a lawyer in the 
Indiana state courts. These law

K of C to meet 
students will be supervised in their 
handling of the cases by a practic­after movie ing attorney. 
Law students cannot, however, 
There will be a meeting today ~~ represent a student in cases again­10 p.m. in the Knights of Columbus st the University, in criminal hall forK of C members only. The actions, or where the student is meeting will take place after the financially able to hire an attorney. showing of the movie ''The Half­Landlord-tenant and contract ac­back of Notre Dame." tions can be handled. 



Tuesday, September 26, 1978 the observer 
Nicaraguan conflict 



Somoza accepts U.S. offer 

~++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++,said a national strike. in its fifth 
:plus: millet mugs, T-shitts,etc. will be: need phousr~~; in a
i iven awa ! FREE UNIVERSITY 
COURSE REGISTRATION 
only $10.00 203 n. main

Wednesday and Thursday 
nowntown SoBend 289-6977 
Canoe-Kayak



Sept. 27 8:00-5:00 
rental-sales 
call now for



In the LaFortune Ball Room 
reservation The Sport Corner 
Sponsored by 
320 N. Redbad Tr • .........., Ml


NO Student Union and SMC Student Gov't. 
616-695-nso 


MANAGUA, Nicaragua [AP]­President Anastasio Somoza has accepted a U.S. offer to help break the deadlock in Nicaragua's bloody civil crisis, a source close to the Nicaraguan government said yes­terday. 
The source. who asked not to be identified, said Somoza decided to accept "the friendly cooperation of the United States government." He declined to elaborate. saying details would have to be released in Washington. 
A senior U.S. diplomat disclosed 



Off-campus students at SMC discuss problems 
by Mary Jo HoUand 

A meeting for off-campus Saint Mary's students was held last night in Stapleton Lounge to discuss various problems of the students. 
One of the main problems dis­cussed was the parking problem. It seems that Notre Dame students are using the parking lot behind Madaleva which is reserved for SMC instead of the designated lot behind McCandless. A parking petition is currently being drawn up to be given to the administra­tion. An immediate solution would be to ticket the offenders, but security had not been doing this. The students suggested that some­time in the future a parking lot be 




I • , GOOSE'S 
: Tues. Night 9-lam : • ffi·111 ~, bottl~s 2/ttl.OO
• ,...... ,...... 'II 
+pIUS• fOf ) /2 hf 
• e e
•• m·11er bottles 3/Sl oo 
• I · • built behind Madaleva to accomo­date students. 
Another current problem is the circulation of information. Begin­ning today, two bulletin boards will be designated for off-campus infor­mation only. They are located in the day student lounge and in the lobby of LeMans. 
Also starting today is the use of 
individual mailboxes. However, 
there are not enough mailboxes for 
every off-campus student. This 
will soon be resolved with a 
shipment of mailboxes arriving in 
two weeks. 
Future ideas for off-campus students include: A happy hour on non-football game weekends, T-shirt sales, and a resume clinic. 
, ­earlier that the United States had urged Somoza to accept outside mediation from Latin American nations. The diplomat, who also asked not to be identified, said the message was delivered to Somoza on Saturday by President Carter's special envoy, William Jorden. 

Jorden left for Panama, his former diplomatic post, after the weekend session. He returned yesterday and received Somoza's answer in a 90-minute meeting with the Nicaraguan president, the 
.~.~~~~n~~p~~~cr~~~c:c~r~o;(:~~~~;
70 percent of the busmcsscs were open. a marked change from 85• 
r~~:::::~}:;::;:::~ 
: =~~::,.a~~~:~!:. of 
• DuPont, will speak tommorrow at 
:;~·;~t~~-~~ic~a;~h~;_o~~i~~~~1Fi~
• Gilbert Lecture senes, sponsored 
•• ~)~i:Ie n~o::Ib~;~:h::::tino:
Gilbert's Stores, founded the lee­
•.~~;rt:~r~~~d::t~ ~:~:uts:e ~~p~~~
tumty to meet w1th nany pro­
• minent businesspersons ____ source said. The U.S. Embassy 
declined to characterize Somoza's 
reply. 
The latest outbreak of Nicara­
gua's bloody fighting was quelled 
Friday by Somoza's national guard. 
It began Sept. 9 and was led by the 
300 to 400-member leftist Sandin­
ista National liberation Front. The 
Sandinistas want to end the 41-year 
authoritarian rule of the Somoza 
dynasty. 
Opposition leaders and the Ro­
man Catholic Church asked Somoza 
to accept mediation by Mexico, 
Colombia and the Dominican Re­
public. 
But Somoza said through his 
private' secretary that he would 
prefer direct talks. which opposi­
tion leaders said they will not 
aq:ept. 
The meeting prompted specula­
tion that Jord~n carried a message -from Carter, suggesting Somoza resign. The American source. when asked if Jorden pressed for a 
resignation, said: 
"I can only talk about U.S. 
standing policy. nothing more." 
The source said Jorden dis­
cussed "U.S. concern over the 
situation. U.S. policy and what the 
United States expected to come out 
nf the Organization of American 
States." 
Political analysts said the United States feels it is essential to have outside mediation in order to stop and then reverse what was des­cribed as "the polarization of Somoza and anti-Somoza forces.'' 
In Managua. the government · derstand"). It is the function of student interest in the project another. Yet while other schools theologians and preachers not before proceeding with it. are abolishing such traditions of simply to formulate and defend JanPUarsld exploitation, Notre Dame is plan­


doctrine, but to allow themselves to ning on implementing them. meditate upon it without constant Only gag Are students really enthusiastic fear of falling into the abyss of about this election, or is it one of
Dear Editor:
heresy. Fr. Toohey_. in his sermon, those things that will just slide
In response to Student Union's
articulated not simply his own through? Are faculty members
decision to sponsor the election of a
meditations. nor solely the most actually going to vouch for some­
homecoming king and queen, I can
advanced theological thought, but one's character so students can
only gag. 
question's which are in fact in the make objects of themselves to be
Although I must commend Stu­
minds of the laity and which thrive compared and put on display?
dent Union for their enthusiasm in 
at a Catholic university. Frankly, I think (and hope) it will
making Homecoming weekend
Mr. Rice's citations from Pope go over like a lead balloon. One
eventful, the election of a king and 
St. Pius X and the Holy Office are section in Lyon's Hall, rather than
queen is far too regressive to
reminiscent of times during which boycott the whole idea, decided to
accept. Contrary to popular myth, 
notions of Christ's dual nature nominate Ed the janitor. I hope the
the election of both a king and 
were hardly burning issues. But rest of the student body takes the
queen doesn't make the archaic
mysteries. and no less the mys­idea just as seriously.
idea of judging one another on the
teries of faith. need to be recalled Otherwise, I will be forced to
basis of "personality, poise, per­
and re-examined especially when spend the rest of my senior year
sonal interests, extra-curricular
they become problematic for the practicing how to look someone in
activities, good grooming, appear­
thinking Christian. To view Fr. the eye and tell them I spent my
ance, and academic standing" any
Toohey's sermon as an insidious undergraduate years at Cornell.
less offensive. I thought we were 
resurgence of Arianism. Nes­Diane Carey 
past the stage of judging one
torianism. or Monophysitism is to wrench it out of its context as mediated rctlection upon the Gos­pel. This view reveals a lack of trust in one's intellect and capacity for belief. The only alternative left to the homilist is a vapid recitation of dogma. which as any 





l. ;.":...~~ ..~.~erv.~:,,
pew-dweller can testify. calls forth 

notre dame and saint mary's community notre dame, in. an equally dry response to faith. 
I
Chester J. Szwed, Jr. 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre 
Dame and Sair.t Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the
Reversion to policies of the administration of either institution. The news isl 
reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials 
represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. 
Commentaries and letters are the views of their authors. Column
high school 
Dear Editor: space i~ available to all members' of the community, and the freeI was appalled to discover that expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, iNotre Dame's Student Union had 

decided to revert to the outmoded, 

EDITORIAL BOARD
"high-schoolish" custom of Home­coming kings and queens. Student Union is justified in the attempt to Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief generate interest in Homecoming Steve Odland Manag1ng Editorweek activities, but the ritual of John Calcutt Executive Editorhomecoming royalty is a farce. 

Barb Langhenry Executive EditorOne would think Notre Dame's Rosemary Mills Editorial Editorstudent body had more class. The PhiiCackley Copy rditoridea of having homecoming royalty Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor casts douot on the social maturity Anne Gales News Editorof Notre Dame students. A Notre Mike Lewis News EditorDame education should promote Diane Wilson News Editorsensitive and responsible interac­Ray O'Brien Sports Editor tion between men and women: a Bryan Gruley Feature Editor homecoming contest perpetuates Doug Christian Photo Editor the "beauty queen" mentality women have been trying to aban-Mardi Nevin Production Managerdon. · John Tucker Business ManagerThe homecoming contest idea is Bob Rudy Advertising Managerdemeaning to women and sets back their role in the Notre Dame community. Student Union would 
Vol. XIII, No. 21 Tuesday, September 26, 1978 do well to take note of the lack of 
.. 


Taking Its Toll 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart 
buchwald 

"Tell me, how are the Brooklyn papers from as far away as Wash­New York City··· The New Dodgers doing?" mgton, D.C.. Philadelphia and 
York City newspaper strike is Boston. You would think this
"You didn-'t hear? They've
starting to take its toll on the Big would fill the news gap. but these
moved to Los Ane:eles.''
Apple. You can see it in people's people are more confused than blank expressions and hear it in "No wonder I can't get their those who have no papers at all. 
games on radio. Is Ted Williams
their desperate voices. One lady who gets ihe Philadel­
still playing for the Red Sox?" 
P.hia Bulletin every day said to me.

When someone hears you're "No, he retired. So did Joe 'If someone doesn't fill theseDiMaggio."
from out of town. the first question 

potholes on 6Jrd St .. I'm going to he or she asks is, "What's going ''I'll be damned--the two best march down to City Hall and give on.?" hitters in the American League." Mayor Rizzo a piece of mind." 
"Nixon resigned and is no longer 'But the Yankees are doing "Rizzo isn't your mayor," I told President," I told one poor soul. well:'' her. "Koch is." "Why shouldn't they with Yogi "Don't kid me," she replied. "I
"No?" he said. "and :H.: 'i\'<'med 

Berra as their manager?" read the papers every day."
to be doing so well with Chin;t." "He's riot their manager any Anothe-r pal who gets the Boston
"Howard Hughes passed away more. Lots of things have hap­Globe every morning said. "If we

in his sleep." 

pened since the newspapers went don't get some tax relief in this city "It's hard to believe," my friend on strike. We have a new pope." soon I'm going to write to my said. "He seemed like such a senator, Teddy Kennedy, and tell
"Poor Pope John . " young vital person." "There was another Pop,e since him he better not ask for my vote in 
1982...

John. He was Pope Paul. ' "Elizabeth Taylor and Richard "Boy, you really get out of touch "Teddy's not your senator,"Burton split up." 
in this city. Did John Glenn e1·,:r told him. "Javits and Moynihan"Now -that's one I didn't hear. 
get to the moon?" represent New York." 
How are Sonny and Cher doing?" 

"No, but three other guys did. 1 'Then how come you never read"They split too." 
John Glenn is now a senator from about them?" he wanted to know. ''What are people reading these Ohio." 
A sports fanatic who has beendavs?" 

"I guess I have a lot of catching reading the Washington Post for -''Books about jogging.~· up to do," he said. "How's Jimmy more than a month has suddenly 
become a Redskins football fan.

"What happened to 'Gone With Hoffa?" the Wind'? I didn't have the heart to tell "Don't you feel dislo~al to the "It's offthe best-seller lists and him. New York Giants team? ' I asked so is 'Forever Amber'." 
him.

Not everyone in New York is 
"Why should I when they moved "I guess that means they'll be without a newspaper. Many des­

coming out in paperback,'' he said. perate souls are buying out-of-tow,.. to San Francisco?" 
Out 

o.f Proportion 
Dear Editor: 
Mr. Rice'~ reaction to Fr. Toohey·~ homily for the Freshman Orientation Mas~ (September 21, I <J7H) ~ecms oddly out of prn)Jnrtion l·on~idcring the content and context of Fr. Toohey's remark~. 
The content of the homily was no "private opinion" as Mr. Rice ~uggesh and a~ reading in current theology reveals. Officially san­ctioned theologians. Rahncr and Pannenhurg among them. have re-examined <.JUCstions con­ccrning the nature of Christ's humanity and divinity, specifically the problem of the historical Jesus' kowlcdgc of his divine nature and function. Their thought is sum­marized in the notion of Christ's "nescinence," the human Jesus gradually learning and confirming hi~ divine identity. I think it is safe to assume that the thematic sub­~tancc of Fr. Toohey's sermon was consonant not only with the "latest," but the best of current public theological inquiry. 

As for context, Fr. Toohey's sermon embodied a venerable theological point-of-view defined by St. Anselm: "Fides querens intcllel'lum," (Faith seeking un­
ff'5 /IlL TJIERE-, WKC-7H& ORJJ75, 
THE /NJURJ£5, EVERYTHING! MY ~ P/{(y-J£3 HASN'T 5TOPPfD RING­~ lNG SINCE THE EIIRL.Y El?I­
I lXNTI(}IW, {)()KC, 8IfT IF YaJ fXJN'T TRACK THE L~ TRtXJBLE, 
5NITCJIIXXtll'l Fll5T, SIR? 'OJ MffJHT'/1$ «JtLi_ 5TAR.T PACKING/ 
! 

0/IMN! 7HI5 CO/Jt.O 8£ WORse 
7HIIN THE STOlEN PLAYBOa<! HOIAJ lH£ HELL 010 7H£ ''p()ST'" fiNO (}(fT, COAC/1? £001£'5 7H~ ONLY ON& BESI/JtS US WHO 
ffiM45N'T MY fAIJLT, 5/R. 7H8f Pt-1&0 Me WfTH CJfEESEBIJREJ/3RS. 
\ 
~ 
::> 
m 
en 
w 
§ z 

Yes, Virl{inia, there is a Security department 
... but does it have the capacity to provide the necessary protection 
of life and property as would befit the residents of Notre Dame? I 
think not. 

The increasing number of crimes Another policy which drains the within tht!ND campus and outlying effectiveness of the Department is area is alarming. Security states the administration's insistence that 
that during a non-football week­Sec'urity transport patients from end, the following offenses were the infirmary to the hospital. This reported: four bicycle thefts, two program was started in the late personal thefts, one theft of univer­60's to take patients only In an sity property, one act of vandalism, emergency. Yet, Security now one tresspasser, four a-uto accid­spends more time and manpower ents. one false alarm, one assault, as a taxi service than as a and eighteen trips to St. Joseph's protection agency. Hospital, transporting patients Of course, the students are not with injuries ranging from a scratch without fault. Although Notre on the chin to internal bleeding. Dame may be presented as a 
These statistics are far from un­sanctuary for the pursuit of acad­usual, and unless both the adminis­emic, spiritual, and socjal activit­tration and the student body stake ies, one must be aware that he is 
out n easures to resolve the appar­still susceptible to the problems of ent i11 adequacies of Security, Notre the "outside" world. Pears advis­Damt: could become a veritable es students to "use commen 
Oodge City. sense" and take the "same pre­What are these inadequacies? cautions as one would at home." It \rthur P•:ars, present Director of is the student's responsibility for \c<·urity, cites the lack of man­the protection of his property; any tHlwer as an outstanding concern of shirking of that duty could result in 1he Department. Security does a personal as well as financial loss. not have enough personnel to It is still the beginning of a new .rdequately patrol the campus. The school year, and I urge everyone to reason is Notre Dame provides evaluate his or her priorities . To ncithe, the wage nor the fringe the administration, I put this benefits that would attract a well­question: What is the value of rrained security patroller, and Security worth in terms of the rhose that are attracted leave the students' well-being? To the moment a better offer arises some­student body, I ask this: Are you " here else. willing to accept responsibility for 
Also, the NO officer is not yourself and your property? If we afforded much protection. Only answer these maturely, we help not one person from each shift is only ourselves, but Security in permitted a gun; and, with the rate serving the needs of this com­of crime increasing many fold, the munity. patroller is constantly faced with And so, Virginia, don't expect the threat of an armed offender. Security to be a Santa Claus who The average age of the • ;;ecurity will magically return your stolen 
officer is forty-five. How is he bicycle, but realize the position that going to protect his life as well as Department is in, and aid them any the lives of others from someone way you can, so that they may 
with a gun? Should he hit the protect you. criminal with his walkie-talkie? Doug Kreltzberg 



NaanYES! 
Last Friday night. I entered the A.C.C. expecting another Springsteen show. Psyched up from a long week of tests and quiues that blew me away. I looked forward to being blown away by Yes. one of the tinest techno-rock bands ever. The happy hour at Senior Bar hadn't tempered my mood any. Anticipating an evening of high-powered. forceful. semi-cosmic rock. I wa!. disappointed. Through no fault of the members of the band. the Yes concert was far less enjoyable than I expected. The factor that contributed most to my general dissatisfaction with the concert was the audience. Typical of A.C.C. audiences. the crowd was rowdy in the wrong places. screaming and whistling during Steve Howe's guitar solos. screaming so loud as to drown out the suspended. otherwise sufficiently loud sound system. Nor were they appreciative enough in the right places. Whereas I would have been on my feet throughout most of the show due to fantastic solos by bassist Chris Squire, Rick Wakeman, and one of the finest guitarists still alive. Howe, it took until the very end of the concert for the audience to show any appreciation for the talent exhibited for over two hours Friday night. 
The individual talents that comprise the band Yes are undeniably superb. No one member of Yes stands out against the band. yet I can say quite confidently th.at each is without peer in his field. Jon Anderson's vocals are. to say the least. unique. Reaching octave ranges that are unparalleled by male vocalists in rock, his voice has an ethereal quality that fasci­nates the listener. I was amazed at how well the voices of Squire and Howe matched Anderson's appearing to expo­nentiate the harmonic texture of Ander­son's. Again, however. the crowd inter­fered with the quieter vocal solos, destroy­ing the forceful, yet subdued presence created by Anderson. 
Twice, Chris Squire whipped off about the finest bass solos I've ever heard. 
Generallv. bass solos do more for me than Sominex. or accounting textbooks when I can't sleep. But Squire's combination of superb. quick. smooth riffs and syn­thesizing pedal work proved not only interesting but enthralling as well. 
Surrounded bv nine sets of kevboards from an acoustic piano to bizar.rc syn­thesizers. Rick Wakeman could have done more. His single solo proved satisfying to the most fanatic of Wakeman fans. vet his incredible talent was far from utilized to its full extent. Rick Wakeman is probably the best keyboard artist in rock right now. Of his 1\vo.closest competitors. Keith Emerson has reverted almost entirely to his classical origins; nor is he anywhere . near as productive as Wakeman. who has a solo album that is not six months old. and a forthcoming album with Yes. Another top kevboardist. Tony Banks of Genesis. is often repetitive. and nowhere near as flashy or innovative. Yet. of the members of Yes, Wakeman was the biggest disappointment. He didn't seem as inspired as he could have been: adequate for the job at must. and he certainly wasn't inspiring for most of the concert. 
Steve Howe, on the other hand. was fantastic when he could be heard. Which brings out my second reason for disap­pointment. The sound mixing must have been done by a three-year old. For the most part. Howe's guitar work was drowned out by either the other members of the band or by the crowd. Steve Howe is a god on guitar. one of the quickest guitarists I've heard, and he performs almost effortlessly. During his accoustic guitar solo. he was laying notes so fast that , my ears lagged behind, yet his fingers , moved up. down, and across the fretboard as smoothly and effortlessly as if he were human and playing half the notes. 
With the noted exception of the solos by various members of the band, the sound at the concert was horrendous. That can be partly attributed to the construction of the
.. . 
.. Photographs of the Yes concert will 
A.C.C.. and partly to the circular construc­tion of the stage. which forced the suspension of the speakers and reverbera­tion of every side. The sound mixing should have eliminated those problems. The result, however. was a cacophony of noise from which one could distinguish little in the way of individual instrumenta­tion. Howe's guitar work could barely be heard above the rest of the noise, and the quieter parts of Anderson's vocals and Howe's accoustic solo could not be distinguished from the omnipresent and obnoxious crowd noise. I saw Yes about four years ago in an outdoor fiasco in Chicago. The sound then was just as bad. but until Friday night I have attributed that to "outdoor concert expense" and forgot­ten about it. The problem appears to lie 
appear in Thursday's MIDPOINT. 
with Yes. though. and contributed to the 
generally negative tone of this review. 
One final note on the "spectacular light 
show." It wasn't spectacular. Anyone_ who has seen Genesis or ELO in concert knows the meaning of "spectacular" in reference to a light show. And anvone who has experienced a "spectacular" light show was undoubtedly disappointed at what Yes displayed Friday night. Given my state of mind (which happened to expand throughout the concert), I should have considered any kind of decent lighting effects cosmic. I didn't. Unfortunately. the only really spectacular thing about Friday night's Yes concert was the 
company. 



----~---~--~---~-·. 
the observer 

b)! Tim "Scoop" Sullivan ance", soda, and a band. Every­correct.
Staff Reporter one who buys a ticket must take one of the buses provided, which will leave every ten minutes from 
Co-sponsored by Stanford and 
the main circle, the library circle,
Farley Halls and the Student Union, and LeMans Hall. 

Yesterday's

the first annual "Hurricane Party" will be held Friday, Oct. 6. "Freewheelin' ", described by According to Bill Roche, SU direct­Roche as, "a really good band out answers or, the party will be similar to the of Chicago-they play excellent Bull Moose Party of past years. music,'.' will perform continuously. 
"With the fact that a lot of the The party was organized to section· parties have been closed supplement the successful Bull down recently. we haven't really Moose Party, which will be held in had a chance to socialize with a lot the spring. by Tom Sampson and of people," Roche stated. "This is Jim Quinn of Stanford Hall. "I'm a chance to get together with a really impressed with the job Tom, large group." Jim. Ed Andrle, (president of 
Stanford Hall) and the girls from 
A maximum of 1200 tickets will Farley have done," Roche com· be sold at SJ apiece beginning mented. "They've done a tremen­today in the dining halls until Oct. dous job to get the party all 
b. The price of admission includes planned out--it's extremely well transportation, "liquid susten-organized." 

50 l"'U AREN'f ONE QF THOSE PE(.)PLE WHO LIKE TO STUDY. WEll. YOU CA.N CELEBRATE THill FACT DCJINI\J Ai .... 
i 
I 

I with coupon 
IL good only 9/26 I 


---------------~ 

our famous two-fer sale 
bring a friend and you'll each get a cut, shampoo. blow-style and conditioner both for only 
12.50 

Now throucll October 31, 1971 wilt! this ad. 
BEAUTY SAlON-SIXTH flOOR-ROBERTSON'S UPPER UVIl-ROIUTSON'S-CONCORD MAll-ElKHART 


~~tli.t\'R.)Tl~ by Michael 
Molinelli



Begin appeals to Knesset 
JERUSALEM lAP) -Prime approving the new Israeli-Egyptian critical of Begin's handling of the Minister Menachem Begin asked accords in full or "everything negotiations, told the Knesset his 
Parliament yesterday to dismantle agreed upon at Camp David will be Labor Party would reluctantly sup­Jewish settlements in the Sinai nullified.'' port the accords. But he asserted 
Desert and accept a P.eace agree­"There is no third alternative," that they will cost a "double ment with Egypt in ' the supreme he said. "This is the way that leads price--unavoidable price of peacenational interest." to peace." and the price for the mistakes" of 
Begin also told the Knesset he Begin was expected to muster an the government.stands by his position, disputed by overwhelming majority of the 120 "We have chosen to be sup­the White House, that he com­Kncssct members--most analvsts porters of the only existing pos­
mitted Israel to onl¥ a three-month said 90-100 votes--when the faw­sibility for peace." Peres satd. freeze on the butldings of new makcrs decide later this week on U.S. officials say Begin pledgedsettlements in other occupied the two "framework" agreements during the Camf David talks to halt 
lands. that he negotiated at Camp David construction o new settlements At a "turning point" in Middle with President Carter and Egypt's until full.agrcemcnt is reached on 
Ea~t history, the prime minister Anwar Sadat. the West Bank and Gaza Strip.~aid the Knc~set faced the choice of Opposition leader Shimon Peres, which could take up to five years. 
But the Israeli leaders has in­sisted he promised only a three-month freeze, the planned period for final negotiations with Egypt. He said Monday a careful 



''Hurricane'' blows in 
check of Israeli records from the summit showed his memory was 

''where old friends eat 
·----------------· 




J1.25 
lpitchets of ffiilletl 
44 ...-points of ll BullfightersACROSS the 1aw 12 Have a runny nose 1 -Street 45 "My boy" 13 Badgerlike animals 
7 Circumferences 46 College course 15 Sniff 13 Regulated system of 47 Miss MacKenzie 20 Shore 
diet 49 Other: Sp. 24 Creator of Winston 14 The Four -50 Mad scramb1e Smith 16 Doting on 52 Periodic table 26 Theatre parts17 Meantime item 2 7 2 , 000 1 b s . (2 wd s. )18 Actress Sharon 54 Candidate for a 28 Word of warning19 Car-window items Kleenex 30 Attention-getter21 "All About-" 55 Madrid men 31 Thin fog22 Mr. Whitney ' 56 Laundry appliances 33 Dull 23 Taboo 57 -fiddle 34 Brilliancy24 RussiaR region 36 American airline 
25 Actress Hartman 37 Disdained 27 Lupino and Cantor DOWN 38 French law bodies 28 Comical I Scott Joplin's city 39 NFL team 29 Fills to excess 2 Conceited person 40 A fool's­31 Does lawn work 3 "Your majesty" 41 Stairway parts32 "Monopoly" square 4 French friend 44 More kind 34 Valley 5 Repair 47 Stare 35 Languid 6 Produce 48 Robert ­39 Brazilian seaport 7 Chinese, e.g. 49 Melville book 41 Opening 8 The Wizard of -51 "The Bridge of San 
42 "Midnight -" Park Luis -" 43 Goddess of dis-9 -in the belfry 53 Business letter cord 10 British suffix abbreviation 
---------------------------------------~ 
BARNABY'S COUPON 50 c OFF ON ANY 10" PIZZA 
COUPONS GOOD THRU OCTOBER 31, 1978 
I 

I $1.00 OFF ON ANY 14" PIZZA 
...I I I I 

I I _____________________________________.. 
I I limit I coupon per Pizza 
~------------------------------------------------J 
', 
·. 

--~--------~--------------~------------------------------.. 
Tuesday, September 26, 1978 
the observer 
7 



Dedrick works to improve conditions in the halls 
by Pat Mangan Dedrick on his attitude. According hall rectors and staff. Dedrick designed an energy con­al and Municipal Parking Con­
to Rozum, Dedrick is making a Kelly described some of the~ gress. ·
servation program which resulted personal inspection of all halls 
problems in detail. She sajd that in a 44 percent reduction in fuel-oil Dedrick was hired to replace Fr. 
Don Dedrick. the new director of himself. Dedrick explained that the major problem the~· were 
consumption and a 31 percent James J. Wilson, who served as Notre Dame's physical plant and the purpose of inspecting the halls experiencing was in the area of hall reduction in electrical use over a director the last two years after 25maintenance, has held this position personally is to familiarize himself upkeep: According to Kelly. the 
three-year period. years at Notre Dame as vice for only three weeks and has with the campus needs. hall's new janitor did not empty the During his 20 years of service to president of business affairs. already won the respect of many · The new director said that he has garbage chute. She also said, 
American University, Dedrick 
rectors and student leaders. not encountered any major prob­"the bathrooms had not been served as business manager and
"I was impressed by Dedrick's lems yet. Dedrick said that he is touched in two weeks and the physical plant director. Judge forms concern for the desires of the involved mainly in "preventive showers were horrible." 
Dedrick is a member of the 
rectors and hall staffs. He is maintenance" at the moment. He Kelly also cited a structural National and Eastern Association availablesensitive to our problems, "said Fr. explained that he wants to find the problem. She said that one room in of College and University Business
Gorski. rector of Howard Hall. Applications for faculty arid stu­
potential problems before they the hall had a leaking crack in the Officers. He is also a member of
According to Student Body Vice­dents wishing to judge the 1978
happen and prevent them. ceiling since January. Kelly said the Association of Physical PlantPresident Mike Roohan, there is a Homecoming king and queen con­
Although Dedrick described no she had expected the leak to be Administrators and the Institution-test can be picked up at the Student
great potential for change in the specific organizational . changes, fixed a.t least by the beginning of system since Dedrick filled his Michele Kelly, president of Farley the fall semester, but it was not Union Office. position. Hall, said that some long-standing taken care of. • d Applications should be com­
Fr. Pedi, rector of Saint Ed­problems were almost immediately pleted and submitted by noon on
On the day after the meeting 
Alumni Boar 
ward's Hall and Fr. Rozum, rector taken care of after the meeting on with Dedrick, both problems were Thursday. of Alumni Hall, both complimented Sept. 11, which Dedrick had with dealt with:the former maid was Off-campus candidates for king 
back to work that day and the crack convenes and queen should submit their 
names at the Student Unior Office
was plastered. Bro. Mahoney, rector of Flanner by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. General Hall, said. "Work orders are [continued from page 1] elections for off-campus candidates answered a tot faster since Dedrick will be planned. will be held on Thursday in
Over 100 die in crash 
took his position." Guest speakers for Friday LaFortune from 1-4 p.m. 
Rooh:;.n said. "The thing that include: ACC Director John Plouff, [continued from page 1] the jetliner appeared to be in a impressed me most is that he is vice President for Student Affairs debris from the jet apparently fell routine landing pattern. command-oriented. Dedrick wants Fr. John L. Wolvlier, Vice Presi­onto her home. The previous worst U.S. air to establish a system to run dent for Public Relations and 
"My sister's lying there burned disaster occurred in 1960. when 134 maintenance more efficiently, he is Development James W. Frick,and to death," he sobbed. "She's all persons were killed in New York sympathetic to student needs." Coordinator of Women's Athletics busted up and everything." City in a crash between a United Although Dedrick has mainly Astrid Hotvedt. 
John Edgington, a labor union Airlines. DC-8 and a TWA Constel-been dealing with building and Saturday, board members and official who was driving to his office lation. / housekeeping maintenance. he has spouses will be guests of Fr. in nearby Mission Valley, said he It was the first fatal commercial other responsibilities. He is also in Theodore Hesburgh at a luncheon "could see fire shooting out of the accident in the 51-year history of charge of the power plant. and will attend the ND-Purdue right side of the plane." the San Diego airport and the first Fr. Riehle, director of energy football game. 
"It just went straight down. fatal crash in the 29-year history of and conservation at the University, The Alumni Board of Directors, When it hit the ground, there was a PSA, an instrastate carrier which was impressed by Dedrick's sensi-with 19 members representing tremendous fire and terrible black has 200 flights a day all within tivity to energy needs and savings. 61 ,000 alumni, meets three times smoke," Edgington said. He said California. While at American University, per year. 
•••••••••••••-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••••••••••••••••••yp••n••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n•••••:.,:•••:::":.:".::"':":::":.:".::"':::":.:".::":::'":::":.:" 

FOUND: I CALCULATOR IN//# Hayes
CLASSIFIEDS Hall. Turned"into L&F in Ad. Bldg. 
LOST: Parker fountain pen. silver with gold point and clip. Call1693 REWARD. 
LOST: Ladies' Gold Watch (Wittnauer Geneve) on Wed., Sept. 20 around 9:30 
a.m. Lost somewhere on road around tennis courts on the way to Hayes-HealyNOTICES 
W"ll $$$ N d p d r k t [GA]
1 pay . ee ur ue 1c e s Call Bob at 1780. 
Need G.A.'s to Pitt. Money no object'! Call Tom 277·1071. 
Anxious for 2 Pitt tickets tor Mom and Dad, call Matt 234-2354. 
Please' Family coming to Purdue game. Need 4 tix. Leslie 5347. 
CALLING ALL GOODY ADDICTS}~ Watch has sentimental value. Will offer { WANTED: GA tix to TENNESSEE. Call t SWEET TOOTHS, ETC. t!! :;:: reward. ;:;: Eric 1384. :::: 
Your chanc~ to O.D. on scrufl!plous\ FOUND: Women's Gold ba~d ring with ) ~~~: baked goods IS tomorrow. 11.00 m t~e :;:; inscription on walkway in front of :;:; Need GA tix for Purdue and Pitt. Joe ;:;: ~r~:~rt~ne. Come support those Dancln:;~ Madeleva on Wednesday. Sep!, 13. Call :;:; 1478. ;:;: 
· ;:;: 7823 (Andrea) and Identify. :;:; Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work :;:; CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on{ FOUND· · f D S h 11 • :;:; at home-no e~perienc~ necessary-ilxcel-)
0 0 1 S 

brand name hard or soft lens supplies. :::: . . · ne pair 0 r. c s a r. ;:;: lent pay. Wnte Amencan Serv1ce, 8350 :::: Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact:;:; Plcmc on Fnday, Sept. 8· Call Barb 7953· ;:;: Park una, Suite 127, Dallas, TX 75231. ;:;: 
Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix. Ari-} FOUND: Pair of glasses behind Stepan { ------------------;~;~
85011 ·

zona :;:; Center. Photo-gray with brown frames. ;::: ;:;: EPISCOPALIANS: .Anglican Eucharist~~~~ Co;t~ct ~he Observer and identify them t t offered Wednesday 3:30p.m.. Grace Hall;:;: an eyre yours agam. :;:; WANTED: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay :;:: Chapel. :;:; ;:;: big bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debie 8150. ;:;: ------------:::: ·:·: ::·: EXPERIENCED TYPIST } ~~~: WANTED: One student football ticket { Fast service-reports. papers, resumes,:;:; ;:;: for Purdue game. Cal 4-1-4253. ;:;: 287 6407 
etc. Call -· Need 2 Miami GA tix-Call Tim at 1771. {
t (
Special Discount to all N.D. and SMC ;:;: WANTED :;:; . . . :;:; students on automotice parts. All you :;:; ;:;: Must have 2-4 GA Pitt tickets. Susan ;:;:4
need is your ID card. . :;~; Mom and Dad desperately need 2 Purdue ;:;: ·1-4407. ;:;: Hoffman Bros. Auto Electnc ;:;: tickets. Call Dan 8252. :;:; :;:; 1101 E Madison -:-: :·:· Help, I need Purdue tickets 1!! Call Anne :-:· 
So.· Bend } Need GA Purdue tix. Steve 8422. ;~;~ 4236. { 
~~eR~:~! Tech Review Calendars are ~l~l NEEDED: 2 GA tickets tor the Pitts-lll~ ~~;~ ~o9GA tickets for Pittsburg. Call lili 
coming! { burgh. Please call Marie -before 9 am or ;:;; ;:;: ------------;:;:after 11 pm. 233-6543. Will pay$$$. :::: Big Money Murf needs PURDUE and ::;: 
1. Mink coat 36", professionally apprais-:::: . :;:; PITT tickets. CAll after 5:00-234-8858. :;:: 
eel. 277-5828/283-6558 office G-221 ;:;: Need 4GA's to any home game.$$ Andy ;:;: , . ;::: Memorial Library. :::: 289-9598 :::: Need 7 GAs lor Tennessee. CAll Bill :::: 
.. . .·.· 8604 .·.· 
2. 
Boarding for geldings and mares, } Need Purdue tix. student or GA. ,Call } . { covered arena, use of trailer. one mile:;:; 1842. ;:;: I need 4 Purdue GA tickets $$$-Call1786. ;:;: from Notre Dame. ;:;: :;:; :;:; 

:::: HELP! Need 2 Purdue student tickets. :::: 5 IRA Activists. fresh fr_om the front, :::: 

3. 
Gardeners: Excellent horse manure. :;:; Call Jet at 1735. ;:;: want to see 2 thmgs m l1fet1mes: ;:;: 


free tor loan of truck one mile from Notre :::: :::: Freedom and N D kill Tennessee. 5 GA :::: Dame. . :;:: Need 4 GA's for Pitt. Call Dave 1209. ;:;: Tennessee or 2 Miami. $$$ Call Mike ;:;:
3596 3596 Organizational Meeting j 1need 2 GA Purdue tix. Will pay your } or . . . } Society tor Jungian!Archetypal Psycho-:;:; price. Call Russ at 8772. :;:: I am lookmg for several lntelll_gent :;:: logy, Sunday, October 1, 7:30 p.m.,;:;: ;:;: people, of any age, who enJOY a modicum ;:;: 
:::: '75 Mustang II. Mach I. VG. 4 speed,
Desperately need 2 GA tickets for :::: stereo. $2400. 289_9818 or 233.s182. 
T~nnessee and 5 others for any home :::: _ga_m_e_._c_a_II_Jo_h_n_a_t_69_34_.____ { '76 Mustang II, Cobra 11. VB. 4 speed. HELP WANTED ~;~; stereo. under $4000. 289-9818 or 233­Station attendant needed. Experience ;~;~ 81 82. preferred. Evenings and weekends. ;:;: 
'76 MGB, 22,000 miles. under $4000,
Apply in person. Mike's Maple Lane :;:; 289-9818 or 233-8182.
AMOCO. 18492 St. Rd. 23. ;:;: FOOTBALL season tickets for sale 288­
Hell me prove to my father the YALE 1 
6748.
grad that we can play football too! 1 :;:;
student Purdue ticket. Call Bill at 1763. ;:;: .._. 
PERSONALSNeed Pitt tickets, student or GA. Will ~~~~ trade Purdue or Tenn. GA's or$$$. Greg ;:;: 

Marie,
1128. 

1 
Better watch out -I owe you one. 1 need 5 GA Miami tickets. [Not :;:; Donny necessarily all together]. Call John at;:;: 
1991. ·:·: 
C.C. :::: Still waiting. Overly anxious
Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets. ·_••:;~_.==.=_.::
=~= 
Chuck 289-6721 · .. 
Toots. -N-ee_d_P_u-rd_u_e_G_A_t-ic-ke-t-s.-C-al-1843--2.-.. Study hard for Friday. It's going to be :;:: 
a rough one. Of course, if you had ... LSAT tutor wanted to teach small classes. ~~~~ 
OkeeDokee:Excellent pay. Call collect (317) 463-7541. :;:; 
I've finally figured out what it is that 
.. 
you do best. But now I'm not goint to tellNeeded-Purdue GA tix. Call John 1874. t 
you. WANTED: Tickets to any and all 1 
Your favorite !lubber fan remaining home games. Call 3498. Ask:::: 
Mary C. Budde.
tor Marty or Mark. ~;~; Happy Birthday! Hope 20 it sunny.
·:·· 
Love. BiebsMy Tennessee kinfolk are coming Nov. :;:~

11. Need 2 GA's and 4-5 more, GA's or;:;: Happy Birthday "Tuber".
students. Call Chris at 1764. ;:;: 
Love. "Tuberette" 

Today is Ron Snyder's 21st Birthday! He's giving out kisses to all "TUNA". 
~~~~e~·s F~ia~D~h! ~~f: ~l:e J:/'· ~l~~ 
234-1823. Leave message. :::: 
XOX MBD&C

:•:: 
Want Pitt GA tix. CAll Herman 1398. ::: 
~~~; 1 Hop aboard the African Queen with skipper and Freddy Oct. 14.
1need 2Purdue student tickets. Call John ••:~:.:.· 
at 1991. ~:~j Yes everybody, Zelda Ray is back! Stop by 329 Walsh ,and say hello.
WANTED: 2 Purdue GA's for my =t=; parents who think I already have them. :f:; 
Tennis and racquetball rackets strung
Call Brad at 3504. :;:;
... 
professionally at affordable price. Joe Montroy 1469.
::: FOR SALE ;;; 
Interested in attending the WOMEN'S ORDINATION CONFERENCE? Balti­HOFNER (McCartney) Bass Guitar. 1~~~ 
more. Nv. HH2. Contact the CCUMalmost brand new 288-6013 ;: office 1112 Memorial Library.
·: 
Wilson Commons :;:; I need GA's·or student tickets for Purdue :;:: of self-confidence. and who would like t :;:: N.D. faculty member selling 1970 Chry-} Regina Sisters: 
------------::;: game Please help! Call Mike 1219. :;;: to earn a lot of money honestly. The :;:: sler. excel!. running cond. Roomy. $850..;:;: 
Afew more rehearsals and we will be
Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate.;:;: · ;:;: pos111on requires some sales, though m a ;:;: 288·6013. ::j:; ready for Tijuana.
reasonable. Close to campus. Phone;:;: WANTED: li:xperienced male or female ;:;: very h~lted way. There IS no obnoxious ;:;: :;;; Let us call you sweethearts. 272-7866. :::: bartenders, waiters or waitresses. also :;:: or anti SOCial work mvolved .. You do not :;:; DOE:S YOUR WARDROBE HAVE THE :~:· Dan and the lOA Singers ------------:;:; dishwashers at the University Club. ;:;: need a car or money for you Will ea~n both ;:;: BACK-TO-SCHOOL BLUES? :!:: 
:::: Come in person or call 7093. :::: workmg With th1s companyjWh1ch hap-:::: Dress it up with 14·18k fine gold jewelry I :::~ Herzlich Geburstag, Bee! FOR RENT ;:;: :::: pens to be the fastest-growing company :::: Call Marilyn for a display of exquisite ;:;: 
Wish I could be with you to celebrate. 
;::: Desperately need 4 GA tix for Pitt game. :::: of its kind in the world.) You may also { chains, bracelets, rings, etc...3848. . :i:~ Remember. Nook -It will be al\rlght!House for rent 5 large private bed-:;:; Will pay top$$$. call Mike 8422. :;;; have more fun than you have had m a ;:;: :;:: 
Happy 21st, all my love 
roo '1S. All furnished. $300.00 per:::: :::: long t1me. Call 272-2484 or 283-6740. :::: FOR SALE: Dunlop Max-Ply Fort Brand ~:: 
Cookie 

month, plus utili:ies and deposit. Gas) Need 2GA Purdue tickets for Boss. Call ;::: N d d . W"l ;:;: new 45/8" with synthetic gut worth :;:: heat. Call 287-1543 8 to 5. Mr. De:;:; Don 1384. :::: ee stu ent t1cket for Purdue. 11 pay :;:; $60.00.askmQ$35.00; Down jacket, men's ;:~ 
S&M Today-Column for Tuadly
Rol'ck. :::: :::: well 3508. :::: red, large, $30.00; set of vintage pre-1960 :t:; 
Our S&M today column Is devoted to ------:;:; Help wanted: Anastasio's Restaurant, :;:; . :;:; golf irons (with imitation bamboo shafts) ;!;: Tim H today. tim, we'd like to ;:;: 1611 s. Main St. Call 234-3258 WEL-;::: Need 1or 2GA Purdue tickets. Money no ::;: and woods plus new golf bag -$35.00. ~ congratulate you for wearing cellophaneLOS AND FOUND jJ COME ND-SMC STUDENTS!!! 1 problem. Call Tom 3010. 1~1 Call Mark at 8551 after 7:00p.m. :::; under your clothes tor all these years • the 
amount of sweat must have bean phe­Texas Jn:;tlument SR-51 ·~ulator. ;;:; WANTED: 2_4GA tix for Purdue. Please :~:~ Needed: Purdue tickets!! Call5754. Sue. ;~~ '78 Jeep CJ-7 Renegade, 10,000 miles. 
nomenal! ~-Karen-4692 SMC. ----Ji. help! I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731. :* Pay Bucks. ~: 2&9818 or 233-8182.
I ~~: 
TB 

ND soccer team wins 23rd in a row 
by I..oo Severino Sports Writer 

The amazing Notre Dame Soccer team ran their unbeaten streak to seven games this season, and twenty three matches over a two­year period, with a 7-0 white­washing of Indiana Tech yesterday at Stepan Field. The Irish have now outscored their opponents 44-3 this season. 
Rich Hunter's hooters started off slowly yesterday, notching only one goal in the first half. Co-captain Jim Sabitus converted a pass from Kevin Lovejoy at the 33 minute mark for the only goal in the first 
~Ianza. 

But the Notre Dame forwards ,·arne out hustling in the second half scoring six goals within twenty 
•ne minutes. Kevin Lovejoy, a ,ophomore from Seattle Wash., .nlred a pair of goals within 43 ,econds as N.D. opened a 3-0 lead. I-'or Lovejoy, the goals were his 12th and 13th of the year, giving him the team lead in that category. · Six minutes later Nick Schnee­man wasted no time in picking up his second tally of the year as he scored again two minutes later off a pass from .Joe Ciuni. 
With the Irish leading S-0, they 
continued to apply pressure in the 
Indiana Tech zone and at the 84 
minute mark sophomore Bill Ralph 
added to the lead wtth his 4th goal 
of the season. Ralph closed out the 
Notre Dame scoring with a second 
goal at the 87 minute mark off a 
feed from Jude Quinn. 
The Notre Dame dominance in 
the contest was revealed in the 
shots on goal, as the Irish totalled .26 while limiting Indiana Tech to only 6. Goalie Brian Cullather earned the shutout, the 4th of the year for Notre Dame. 
The Irish have shown complete dominance over their opponents up to this point in the season as shown by the fact that they have outshot the opposition 192-J I. Although Kevin Lovejoy leads the club with IJ goals the scoring has not been a one man effort. Thirteen different players have scored in the teams first seven games. 
Coach Rich Hunter and his club will try to extend their winning streak, currently the longest in the nation for a major college team, on the Stepan Field tomorrow as they host Albion college. Game time is 4:00p.m. 
by Bernie Segatto Michigan State rival. 
Sports Writer Sullivan played down his suc­
cess. "This was a pretty low key 
The Notre Dame cross country: meet. The biggest challenges are continued their winning ways with still ahead of us. most notably the a victory over Michigan State Notre DameInvitational held in two 
20-40. in a meet held in Lansing weeks, and the district IV meet 
last Friday. The harriers are now November II in Minneapolis. Our 
2-0. goal is for the whole team to make Pat Sullivan again led the Irish as nationals and this meet was a step he won his second meet with a time along the way. Still, even though 
of 24:41. After finishing in a we've won two meets handily (the 
three-way tie last week, Sullivan first meet was a shutout of Pur­
won by thirteen seconds over a due), the full potential of this team 
Mike Henry:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::: 
Dear Dan ..... 

:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.;::::Time-out 
Dear Dan, 

Well, before the season began you said they'd have to take it (the national championship) from us, and I guess Missouri and Michigan have done a pretty good job of it. Boy, you must sure miss Ross and Willie and Luther and Big Mac a lot more than you've let on. Dan, I know you've got a good sense of history so I needn't remind you that Notre Dame has not been 0-2 since 1963 and have never been 0-3. 
And when's the last time the Spoilermakers came in here unbeaten? Second-year coach Jim Young has done a fine job of rebuilding around passing wizard Mark Hermann, who some regard as the best throwing quarterback in the land. He ripped our great secondary apart last year until you brought in Montana and changed around the whole season. Then you pulled off the green jersey ploy that made Knute smile in his grave, and capped it gloriously with our incredible Weekend in cotton. 
Dan, you know how grateful we are for the national championship. A lesser team would have quit after the Ole Miss horror show, and a lesser coach would have let them. But at Notre Dame we don't dwell on titles, because of our insatiable urge to be the best at football, academics, drinking -everything. Yet already the dream of consecutive financial bonanzas for the Hammes Bookstore has vanished. 
Coach, you've dealt with the pressure cooker before and you're going to be put through the wringer again. Don't let the rantings of frenzied alum. i upset you. Let's be realistic-the kind of talent possessed by the Bear md by Barry Switzer in Norman is not present this year at South Bend. Yet the potential remains for an 8-3 campaign and some kind of bowl b1d (don't forget to bring your fur-lined parka to Jacksonville). 
Before the game with the maize-and-blue, though, you mentioned conditioning as one of the keys. Well, in case you didn't notice, both Missouri and Michigan controlled both lines of scrimmage throughout the second halves. We were worn down during the fourth period and while our running game was bt'ing neutralized, our rivals were finding gaping holes for five and six yards. 
More than this, coach, was the obvious lack of good mental 
nditioning. Why did we draw continuous personal fouls after long gains 
1. .•d been recorded? Are our players being encouraged to taunt the . ·;·ponents? And why, in the name of Fielding Yost, did you and Merv use :lP an eternity to send in plays when the minutes were dwindling to a 1n···cious few? We were trailing by 12, yet everyone on the sidelines wl'med impervious to how critical things were. These flaws must be . ••rrected before we host Purdue. 
Finally, Dan, let me apologize for those of uswho like to think we are · · rhe greatest student body in the world.." We really stunk up the joint. I ~.I" you look up quizzically a few times as if to implore us to inspire the lri.,h. But the electricty that made last year's USC game a dream, that mane the San Francisco basketball game two years ago legendary, was noticeably absent. At times I felt part of a polite tennis audience, as the two squads yo-yoed down the field. Guys, I realize we usually aren't up until noon on most Saturdays, but we have been apathetic for two games now. 
So. Dan Devine, if you guys get your act together, we'll try to hold up our end of the bargain. Just like last year, the coaches, players and fans can prove to a skeptical outside world that Notre Dame doesn't lie down after a loss. Or even when hopes of number one are gone. 

Nick Schneeman [30] of Notre Dame heads the ball into the net for the fourth Irish goal vs. Indiana Tech, as teammate Terry Finnegan [13]looks on. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Irish harriers down Spartans 
hasn't been realized, and when everyone has good races on the same day we will be able run with anyone in the country." 
The top seven finishers for the Irish were sophomore Sullivan, senior co-captain Dennis Vander Kraals, senior letterman Joe Stroh­man, sophomore letterman Chuck Aragon, freshman Ed Bomber, sophomore letterman Charlie Fox and junior Mark Novak. 
Fourth-year coach Joe Piane had mixed feelings about the race. '·We ran well but could have run much better than we did. Sully (Pat Sullivan) had a very good time 
. on a tough course. Two other bright spots wer Chuck Aragon, and Ed Bomber, a freshman from Portland, who both ran well. Overall it was a good team perfor­mance, as they stuck with our pre-race strategy. That strategy was to stay bunched together for the first three miles, which the team did." 
Coach Piane also talked about the upcoming Notre Dame Invita­tional. Some of the teams in this field include Michigan, Auburn and South Florida. Defending ND invitational champion Eastern Illi­nois is also included. Eastern also was NCAA division II champion last year. This meet will be the toughest test for the team so far. 




AP Top Twenty 
I. Oklahoma 27 2. Arkansas 17 
3. Southern Cal 14 4. Michigan 6 
5. 
Penn State 2 

6. 
Texas 

7. 
Alabama 

8. 
Texas A&M 

9. 
Pittsburgh 

10. 
Florida State 


II. Louisiana State 
12. 
Nebraska 

13. 
Ohio State 

14. 
Missouri IS. Maryland to. Colorado 


17. 
Iowa State 

18. 
UCLA 

19. 
Georgia 

20. 
Stanford 


3-0-0 1,235 2-0-0 1,208 J-0-0 1.189 2-0-0 1,144 4-0-0 I.OR7 2-0-0 950 2-1-0 871 2-0-0 819 2-0-0 678 J-0-0 662 2-0-0 576 2-1-0 508 
1-1-0 449 2-1-0 446 J-0-0 376 3-0-0 356 J-0-0 312 2-1-0 229 2-0-0 117 2-1-0 85 




%Observer 


Sports 
Simmendinger's blasts win two as Notre Dame sweeps Xavier 
by Mike Henry Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team proved their mettle twi<'<! Sunday afternoon. rallying from J ·ll d('ficits in both ends of a doubleheader with Xavier to up their fall mark to 4-1. 
The Irish rallied in the first contest for a 5-4 victory and captured the nightcap 4-3. Coach Tom Kelly's crew is displaying a fighting, rambunctious spirit · ', ~~ year. something they lacked last spring when they dropped twelve one-run decisions. 
Third baseman Mark Simmen­dinger was the hero in both contests. with the game-winning single in the opener and a dramatic blast with one out in the seventh inning of the finale. Simmending­er's bat has been torrid this fall, and his glovework, when combined with slick fielding Rick Pullano at shortstop, makes the left side of the infield impregnable. Notre Dame's. pitching staff has nothing but kind words for these two. 

However, when the pitchers don't let the opponent hit the cowhide, Simmendinger and Pul­lano can't make ordinary or excep­tional plays. Starter Mike Bobinski was stricken with a bout of wild­ness in the first game and failed to last the fourth inning, replaced by Tim Handrich. Handrich turned in a stellar performance. stifling the Xavier attack on one hit the remainder of the game. 
Notre Dame tallied four times in 
·the third after two were out. Jim Montagano doubled and Tommy Caruso beat out an infield ground­er. Freshman Dan Szajko, a South Bend product, then lashed a three­bagger and Pullano singled to cut the deficit to one. Mark Jamieson singled on a hit-and-tun and Pul­lano crashed into the Xavier cat­cher, spraining his hand in the process of tying the score. 
The Irish won the game in the seventh. With two gone, Jamie­son's fly ball was dropped in left and he scampered to second on the play. Simmendinger followed with the game winner. 
Bob Bartlett continued his fine twirling in the second game. He was untouchable after the first inning, in which he was victimized by shoddy fielding for three runs. The Irish waited until the fifth to rally, starting with a single by freshman Henry Valenzuela and a free pass. Jamieson scored one runner, Dave Bartish walked, and Simmendinger followed with a double to clear the bases. Notre Dame then loaded the bases but Dan Voellinger struck out. 
The game was tied going to the last of the seventh. Bartish flied out, then Simmendinger blasted a pitch over the left field fence, sending the bench into a frenzy. for the junior from Maryland, it capped a day on which .he carried an improving club on his shoulders. 
The Irish play Valparaiso at 3 
p.m. today. Admission is free as the Irish try to become S-1. 
\ 




