
server 
·~ 1. r r' 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st,. mary's
I Friday, March 10, 1978 
Take 17 halls 
McKenna-Roohan win election 
by Barb Langhenry News Editor 
Andy McKenna and Mike Roohan gathered 2186 votes, or 52.7 per­cent of those cast, to win the Student Body President and Vice­President election yesterday. Their opponents, Mike Schlageter and Jayne Rizzo, obtained 1890 votes, or 45.6 percent of those cast. 
Sixty-one percent of the student body voted to establish a 296 vote margin between the candidates. McKenna and Roohan gained the support of 16 halls and the off­campus students. Schlageter and Rizzo took six halJs. All of the candidates won in their halls, but Schlageter recorded the most siza­ble margin, defeating McKenna and Roohan by 271 votes in his home-hall. Grace. 
''The main goal of this ticket is to filJ the needs of the community," McKenna noted, adding that thoughout the first month of his administration he and Roohan would try to identify these needs. They are planning to distribute student surveys, establish the Council of communication and wants to have Student Government focus on things that are important to students. "I hope Andy and myself can accomplish the goals we set out for and excel behind these goals," Roohan added. 
McKenna noted that he wants the input of the other candidates and said he would ''like to sit down with the other candidates and see how we can bring their ideas into the workings of Student Govern­ment next year." 
Further development of the ideals of coeducation, effective USf of the Campus Life Council, leader­ship workshops, creation . of a Career Development Center, im­provement of student/Student Government communication and improvement of the security force were the main elements in the McKenna/Roohan campaign plat­form. 
McKenna thanked the people who helped during his campaign and thanked "Bruce (Blanco) and Carey (Ewing) for their support." "I would also like to congratulate all the candidates on a tine elec­tion," McKenna added. Roohan 

attend hall council meetings to "campaign for student input." McKenna also promised a Student Government Newsletter by April 18. 
In the next 12 months, McKenna 
McKenna/ also congratulated the other candi­dates, and noted that "talented persons were involved in the election." 

Roohan  
Alumni  111  
Badin  71  
Breen-Phillips  85  
CarroU  27  
Cavanaugh  100  
DUion  108  
Farley  120  
Flsher  76  
F1anner  150  
Grace  41  
Holy Cross  77  
Howard  97  
Keenan  135  
lewis  121  
Lyons  72  
Morrissey  207  
Pangborn  74  
St. Edward's  10~  
Sorin  48  
Stanford  lOS  
Walsh  99  
Zahm  105  
Off-Campos  55  
Total  2186  
% of votes cast  52.7%  

Roohan commented that it is important to "realize that in any [continued on page 2] 
Schlageter/ Rizzo Other 
85  2  
29  1  
77  1  
25  1  
57  1  
150  12  
76  0  
24  5  
129  3  
312  0  
41  2  
40  5  
1116 · 7  
113  1  
101  3  
43  8  
92  0  
16  6  
51  8  
98  1  
55  0  
117  2  
43  1  
1890  70  
45.6o/o  1.7%  

Miners ordered back to work 
WASHINGTON [AP] -A federal the court, which may include fines quarters, where top industry judge yesterday ordered coal min­and imprisonment. officials and union leaders agreed ers to report to work this morning The restraining order expires at on terms for reopening talks. and temporarily end a 94-day strike 6 p.m. EST on March 17. The It was not immediately known that has forced widespread power judge has ordered a hearing for which side in the long dispute had curtailments and the layoff of that day -a week from Friday -on a initiated the face-to-face meeting thousands of workers. motion for a preliminary injunction. between the union and the leaders 
There is widespread expectation The judge's order specified that of the Bituminous Coal Operators withil. the government as well as the defendants continue bargaining Association(BCOA). both the union and industry that "and to make every effort to adjust Representatives of the two sides thousands of rebellious miners will and settle their differences." last met more than ten days ago, defy the order. The announcement that negotia­before the industry agreed to the 
But President Carter declared at tions would resume followed a union's contract demands as Presi­a news conference three hours private session at the UMW head­
[contlnned on page 4]before Robinson signed the order: ''The law must be enforced.'' 

U.S. District Judge Aubrey 
Provost Search Committee
Robinson issued the back-to-work order under the Taft-Hartley Act as the striking United Mine Workers 
names eight candidates
and the soft coal industry unexpec­tedly agreed to resume contract talks. by Marian Ulicny He received his Lientiate in 
They set their first negotiating Senior Staff Reporter Sacred Theology from the Grego­session for this morning. rian University in Rome and was 
Robinson's order becomes effec­The Provost Search Committee ordained into the Holy Cross order tive at 7 a.m. local time today and has named eight candidates to be in 1959. A philosophical theolo­requires coal miners to work for the interviewed for the position of gian, Burrell joined the Notre same wages and benefits they University Provost, but the nufllber Dame faculty in 1964 and received received under the most recent may be expanded, according to 0. his doctorate from Yale University contract -the one signed in 1974 Timothy OMeara, professor of in 1965. that expired on Dec. 6. mathematics and Search Commit­Burrell was originally a member 
Robinson's order followed an tee chairman. of the Search Committee but was afternoon of court arguments The first candidates to be replace QY Fr. Thomas E. Blantz,' involving lawyers for the govern­announced were Dr. Janet L. associate professor of history and ment, the UMW and the coal Travis, provost of Northern Ken-· university archivist, upon his desig operators. tucky University, and Dr. Thomas nation as a candidate. "After a 
Robinson, after hearing argu­B. Day, acting vice-chancellor for long deliberation, I determined ments from Attorney Genel,"al Grif­academic affairs at the University that I should let the nomination go fin Bell, agreed that "such. strikes, · of Maryland. forth, and I resigned from the if permitted to continue, will Also to be considered are Dr. committee," he explained. imperil the national health or John A. Dillon, vice-president for The latest candidates to be safety." academic affairrs at the University announced are Dr. James L. Per­
The order is directed against of Louisville, and Dr. Frank T. otti, associate provost at Ohio 1,451 defendants, including the Birtel, deputy provost at Tulane University, Dr. Louis A. Masotti, United Mine Workers, its local University. Dillon, a physicist, director of the Center for Urban unions, mine work contractors and received his doctorate from Brown Affairs at Northwestern University, mine operators. University in 1954. Birtel earned and Dr. Stephen J. Miller, associ­
The judge directed federal mar­his J'h.D. in mathematics from ate provost at Northwestern Uni­shals to serve each defendant with Notre Dame in 1960. versity. a copy of the order, together with Currently, the . sole candidate The search began last November the complaint by the government from the University community is when the committee, composed of and all the legal papers that went Fr. David Burrell, chairman of the O'Meara, Blanz, Frederick Cros­with it on or before 4:30 p.m. EST Department of Theology. Burrell son, philosophy professor, Fernand next Monday. The order does not was graduated magna cum laude Dutile, assistant dean fo the Notre spell out any penalties for nomcom­from Notre Dame in 1954 1and Dame Law School, J. Philip Glea­pliance, although a defendant is awarded Fullbright and Woodrow son, hi~tory professor, and Kenn subject to the contempt power of Wilson fellowships. 
I~ued on paee 4] 
the observer 



,_.On Campus Today_---... 
Weather 
Mostly sunny and warmer today. High around 40. lncreasi~g 
cloudiness tonight. Lows in the low 30s. Chance for ram 
tomorrow. Highs in the low 40s. 
Friday 3 pm 
3:30pm 
4 pm 4:15pm 
5:15pm 7 pm 7,9 pm 7,9 & 11 pm 8 pm 
8 pm 
9 pm 
Saturday 
noon 
7,9 & 11 pm 8pm 9 pm 
Sunday 1 pm 1-5 pm 
2 pm 3 pm 
film, "lucy Iippard" sponsored by the art gallery, in th.e ~rt gallery. 
philosophy series, "social roles" prof. richard wasserstrom, ucla, sponsored by philo. dept. mem. lib. lounge. 
slide talk, james gahagan, painter, sponsored by isis gallery and the art dept. little theatre Iafortune. 
presentation, summer program in archeology at nd for '78 summer session, by prof. james bellis, sponsored by dept. of sociology and anthropology. rm. 221, o'shag. 
mass and supper, bulla shed. 
college life, campus crusade for christ, howard hall chapel. 
film, "two women" starring sophia loren, sponsored by modern and classical languages· dept. lib. aud. $1. 
film, "bobby deerfield," starring al pacino & marte keller, sponsored by sr. class, eng. aud. $1. 
dance ensemble, "a glimpse of the ballet," directed by mim sparks field, sponsored by nd/smc dance ensemble, little theatre. 
boxing, finals of the bengal mission bouts, ace, $2 & $3. 
nazz, open stage night, basement of Iafortune. 
basketball, high school regionals, ace, tix at participating schools only. 
film, "bobby deerfield" eng. aud. $1. 
dance ensemble, little theatre 
nazz, world hunger coalition benefit, featuring matt feeney, carl casazza, steve podry & jules thompson, basement of Iafortune, $1 donation. 
workshop, nd hunger coalition workshop, mem. lib. au d. 
workshop, "dealing with investment & south african apartheid: notre dame responsibilities," tim smith, director of interfaith center on corporate respon­sibilities, open to all. mem. lib. aud. 
lecture, james gahagan, visiting artist, sponsored by art gallery, in the art gallery. 
recital, barbara geary, guest pianist, little theatre. 
3 & 8 pm film, "fires on the plain" sponsored by the committee on asian studies, eng. aud. 
7pm organizational meeting, anyone from md. va. or d.c. area interested in forming a washington d.c. club, farley basement. 
8 pm film, "girls on the beach," featuring the beach boys, sponsored by the smc jr. class, carroll hall, smc, 75 cents. 
8:15 pm recital, michael toth, graduate student-piano, sponsored by the music dept, crowley hall of music. 
Ad Layout: John P. O'Connell Greg Trzupek 
I ht> Oh~t>rvt'r IS puhll~h!'d Monday throu~h I nddy and wt>ekly dunng 
tht• exdm and va< at1on pPnods fhp Ob~ervt>r ~~ publ1~ht>d by studt>nts of thP UnlvPr\IIV of Notr!' Dame and 
5 :15 pm Saturday Vigil
~~ Mary's CollegP Subscnptions n1av hP purchast>d for $20 pPr ypar 
9:30 a.m. Sunday 
($11! pt>r wmP~tPr) from The ObsPr­
10:45 a.m. 
ver, Hox Q, NotrP DamP, lnd1ana 
12:15 p.m.
46556 Second cla~s postagP pa1d, Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46S5h ThP Observt>r IS a mt>mbt>r of the 
7 ·1-:: \/oc;n~rs
Assoc1ated Prt'ss All reproductiOn • nghh art' resPrvPd ! 
J I 



Tongsun Park details payments 
WASHINGTON (AP] -Tongsun Park said yesterday he paid a total of !750,000 to U.S. congressmen ­!300,000 to !400,000 in political contributions and the rest in busi­ness deals 
Park told reporters after com­pleting initial questioning by House ethics committee investi­gators that he told probers of no new names of congressmen who got some of his money. 
Park was questioned for the 
committee's investigation into G h 
alleged South Korean influence 
buying but he reportedly insisted to 
the end that he paid all the money 
as a foreign rice dealer and not as 
an agent to buy influence in 
Congress for Seoul. 
He told U.S. prosecutors in Seoul 
in January that he made payments 
to about 30 congressmen. His 
lawyer, William Hundley, said his 
testimony to the House investi­
gators was the same as that in 
Seoul. 
Park told a news conference that 
he paid "about !300,000 to 
!400,000" in campaign and other 
types of contributions to congress­
men. He said his total payments 
were !750,000, saying "that's 
including payments I possibly 
made to certain business relation­
ships I had with the congressmen." 
Park allegedly told House investigators of payments approaching !200,000 to former Rep. Otto E. Passman, D-La., and about 1100,000 to former Rep.. Richard T. Hanna, D-Calif., reliable sources said. 
He told U.S. prosecutors in Seoul that he considered the payment to 
SBP-SVBP election results 
[continued from page 1] _ 
kind of an etectton tnt: ;.,.mdidates 
are important because they must 
prove themselves, but the people 
behind the candidates are impor­
tant also." It is those people "I 
wou[d like to thank," he stated. 
Schlageter wished McKenna and Roohan the "best of luck" and stated he thought they would "do a good job." He noted that it was a "clean election, with capable people running, and it showed the student body that there are things which need to be done." 
"Knowing that I would lose before the campaign began, I would still do it again," Schlageter reflected. "It takes a certain person to run for SBP, and you have to believe in yourself and put your heart in and go all the way." 
"The experience gave me the opportunity to grow in a way which I wouldn't have been able to grow. You learn alot about yourself,'' he said. 
McKenna pointed out that he is the second McKenna to be Student Body President at Notre Dame. Phil McKenna, his uncle, became Student Body President on March 14, 1969. McKenna's cousin was vice-President in 1966. 
College Graduates 
Ail Majors. Start using your education and training without the years of menial chores expected of most starting positions. This is an opportunity to take charge of a highly trained staff of young people right away. Only those interested in advancement, challenging opportunities and fantstic benefits need apply. Call312-657-2234 for an interview.: We are a DOD, EOE organization. 
an 
campus
ministry 

·tht> \Umm!'r ~t>~~1on, exn•pt dunng 
Sundav Masses at Saaed Heart Church 
Rev:. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Rev. David Schlaver, C.S.C. Rev. JohnS. Dunne, C.S.C. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Homilist 
Passman compensation for helping him regain his position he had briefly lost to a South Korean official as South Korea's exclusive 
U.S. rice dealer. 
Hanna, the only present or former congressman criminally indicted in the Korean affair so far, is accused of getting !100,000 or more from Park while conspiring with him to try to buy influence in Congress. 
i 


a agan presentS Sunday lecture 
Painter and educator James Gahagan will discuss current art trends during a lecture at 2 p.m. Sunday in the Notre Dame Art Gallery. The program is sponsored by the Gallery and the Art Depart­ment and is open to the public without charge. 
A member of the faculty at Pratt Institute, Columbia University and Goddard College, Gahagan's abstract expressionist art works have been exhibited in the Museum of Modern Art, the Whit­ney, the Guggenheim and other major museums. 
Notre Dame's Gallery is cur­rently exhibiting photographs of 
W. Eugene Smith, masterworks from the permanent collection, African traditional art and Amer­ican Indian art. The O'Shaugh­nesssy Hall facility is open until 5 
p.m. daily and from 7 to 9 pm 
A knowledgeable source said earlier that Park told the investi­gators he gave campaign contri­butions totaling nearly !100,000 to former Rep. Cornelius Gallagh«<r, D-N.J., in 1970 and 1971. Galla­gher chaired the House Far East subcommittee at that time. 
Gallagher, who has been men­tioned in previous stories, has refused to make any public com­ment but his lawyer has said he did nothing wrong. 
Special Counsel Leon Jaworski told reporters as Park's closed door questioning drew to a close that it "by and large has been revealing." 
Jaworski said he could not estimate how many congressmen might be recommended for disci­plinary action as a result of Park's testimony. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Layout Staff: Lou Rivera, Mike Lewis Editorial layout: Rick LaBelle Features and Sports Layout: Tony Pace Typists: Stacy Weaver, Mark Rust, Mardi Nevin, Theresa Richeson Early Morning Typist: Mary Jo Cushing Tom Powanda Day Editor: Tom Nilsson Copy Reader: Jerry Perez, Mike Lewis 

--~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sat.Sun. I :15-3:20-5:15­7:20-9:30 
Weekdays 7:15-9:40 Sat.Sun. 7 -9:40 
it's miller time..-at Lee~ Barbecue 
this _friday oftenwon 
Pre-St. P~r~ Da.r Specials 
1.25 pitchers cf miller 4-7 .50 pitchers ~f miller.for 1 hour 

TONITE: open stage 9-11 pm 
SAT NITE. WORLD HUNGER 
• COALITION BENERT 

featuring MATT FEENEY, STEVE PODRY CARL CASAZZA and Jules Thompson 9-12 midnite donation $1 


~~--~---.........! 

.-----------------------~------~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, March 10, 1978 

the observer 
3 




Student cracks computer security system 
by Janice McCorDUICk 
On the weekend of February 25, a student was able to bypass the computer security system at the Computing Center by feeding false credentials from a master text into an IBM 370-158 computer, accord­ing to R. Brian Walsh, director of the Computing Center. 
Consequently, the student ob­tained confidential information concerning grants a Notre Dame professor had received. · In bypassing the security system and taking certain information while on the premises, a properly right had, in effent, been violated, 
. ---U&'lllf*S£~ 
A student, using false credentials, gained access to confidential information from computers such as these. 
Cable snags mini-sub Off Shetland Islands 
LERWICK, Shetland Islands AP -A Northern Rescue cenetr at Pitre­. · b · d · a vie, Scotland.
mmt-su marme use m oil opera­tions snagged on a submerged In September, 1973, two men in cable Thursday and became a a vickers oceanic sub were rescued 
t 1 · & aft b i tr d 76 h t26 & 
, -•OO -ong pnson •or its two er e ng appe ours a crewment 245 &e t d th 1,375 feet when their tow line
1' e own on e

North Sea bed. snapped and a compartment flood­
Officl.als of the Pent"sular and ed. The sub h adbeen work"tng 150 Oriental Steam navigation Co., miles southwest of Cork, Ireland on h" h t th u s b ilt b the Atlantic sea bed. 
w tc opera es e · · u su ' 
said a rescue ship was on the way, 
but the mqn probably could not be,.....------------------------------"~ 
Dean of Students James Roemer said. 
The, main intent of the student's action, Walsh explained, was to show the mistakes and lack of security in the computer system.He stated that by creating an ID number and gaining information, the studnet did no real harm. "But," he added, "if others with less capabilities were to do so, the system would be badly abused." 
Although the studnet set out with the intention of revealing the shortcomings of the security system, Walsh said that, in this case, "the end does not justify the means." Although he admits the fallibility of the system's security, 
brought to' the surface until Friday 
morning. They have enough air 
and food for seven or eight days 
and are in radio comunication with 
the surface, the comapny said. 
"We don't see the situation as 
desperate at the' moment,'' a P&O 
spokesman said. 
The rescue ship Sub Sea I, with 
another mini-sub aboard, was due 
on the scene Friday (3 am e.s.t.). 
The rescue sub, Mermaid III, has a 
me~hanical arm that experts hope 
will be abl~ to free the snared craft, 
named the PC-9. 
The men have not been identi­
fied, but are believed to be British. 
They had been down four .hours 
working on a well head in Britain's 
North Sea Oil Field. When they 
started to surface, just after noon (7 
am EST),_ the tail of their submer­
sible snagged on a wire. 
· The craft is trapped 
miles east of Larwick, the 
town of the Shetland Islands 
about 120 miles northeast of Jand's northern tip. 
''The depth is too 
ordinary skin divers," 
spokesman at the Royal 
/ 

_(~ .--. ___ -~ ~ \ 
·{j __fN. D. is No. 11 ~· 

randyourmee~~~be~ '. 
The Uncoln Highway Inn can meet your requ1rements for a No. 1 oanquet or a No. 1 graduation part·1 

The L H. Inn offers: exquisite food 


private bar I entertainment with dance floor I sleeping rooms 
l I 

:---____ 
·Walsh believes there is "enough He revealed that although the had not been the first such occur­security to protect the data." "We information gained by the stu­ence. shouldn't have to put a fence dent's "taking a key he was not Because of the incident, the 
around it," he said. authorized to have" was not highly student will do research work in the Roemer commented that the in­confidential, some recompense had computer , field. Roemer said the cident had not been done with any to be made for violating University student will report his findings to malicious intent and was merely rules. the Dean's office when they are 
. the result ofthe student's curiosity. In addition, Roemer said that this completed. 

Carter orders miners to work 
WASHINGTON [AP) -President Carter appealed to striking coal miners yesterday to obey a back-to­work court order and said a crisi could be .averted if a "moderate number" go back to the mines. 
He said he has absolutely no plans to seek authority for the federal government to seize the struck mines, which h~~os been urged by many strikers in.the hope that the government will give them better terms than those offered by the mine owners. 
Carter said he has ordered Attorney General Griffin Bell to direct enforcement of the order, which was expected to prohibit picketing or interference with deli­veries of coal or with miners who want to return to work. 
And he said it is his firm belief that miners will obey the law and return to work. 
A federal judge later ordered the 
striking miners back to work, .----------------------------­
effective at 7 a.m. local time today. 
About the same time, it was 
announced that top officials of the 
United Mine Workers (UMW) 
union and the soft coal industry had 
met unexpectedly to arrange to 
resume contract talks. 
"I believe the coal miners to be partiotic and law~abiding citizens; and I believe that a substantial portion, an adequate proportion of them will comply with the law," Carter said. 
In his fifth news conference this year, Carter also said he has no intention of trying to pressure Israeli Prime Minister Menachem 
Jackson Brown 
tickets on sale 
Tickets to the 'Jackson Browne' concert on Apri110 will go on sale 

~~~e~;~c~~:~a~e~t~~e~~eu!~~
ticket office will sell tickets that day 
until 5 p.m. and 4 p.m. respec­tively · 
The price of the floor and padded seats is $8.00 and bleacher seats 
are S7.00.

The Student Union will hold a lottery Sunday night at 6 p.m. in LaFortune Center. The ACC will allow lines to form at 9 p.m. 
Sunday night. Checks should be
made out to "Student Government Fund." 
Begin into making concessions sought by Arab states. But he also criticized Begin's resistance to ending the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, and said the Middle East situation has deteriorated since Egyptian leader Anwar Sadat went to Jerusalem in November· 
At the same time Carter cau­tioned Begin, who will· visit Wash­ington next week, that it would be "a very serious blow" to peace prospects if Israel continues to insist it is not required by U.N. Security Council resolutions to withdraw from the West Bank. 
The President also: -Announced that Somalia has pro­mised to withdrllw its forces from Ethiopia; called on the Soviet Union and . Cuba to get their military forces out as well, and hinted the United States might ship defensive arms and economic aid to 


~~qJ­
~ 
0 
~ 

v~~ ~c ~ ~?" >)-<::) 
cJ~ ~ tickets: $4 · students $2. 
SPANISH DANCES IN CONCERT 
St. Mary's College MAR. 13, 1978. BPM 
Olaughlin Auditoriu·m reservations: call 284-5787 or 5788 

atch the splendor of Spain's past come alive
A Q s





UDrrl N 

Saturday & Sunday, c 11, 12 March 1:00pm ·­-s::. 
C) 

Callbacks Sun. Mar. 12 -1:00 prn. ::a Materials for auditions available in Speech and as Drama Office, Room 11 O, Moreau Hall, Sain1 :-I Mary's. Open to all NO.St. Mary's Students. 0 
Somalia after it withdraws behind its own borders. -Said a gradual phasing out of federal controls on the price of natural gas would be acceptable to him. 
Said any settlement for bringing black rule to Rhodesia ought to include the Patriotic Front, which has been conducting raids from neighboring Zambia and Mozam­bique, and who were excluded form an agreement reached last week between Prime Minister Ian Smith and three other black nationalist leaders. -Rebutted a statement by Mark Siegel, who resigned from the Whit House staff on Thursday saying he had been given no voice in making decisions on Middle East policy. Carter said Siegel, whom he called "a fine young man and an excellettt employee," had actually had a "strong input" on policy. 

-~----------------~~-~---~­
Power companies threaten disconnections 
[API-Hundreds of errant business 
a,d industrial customers have been 
p 1t on notice by Indiana's two 
I; rgest electric companies that they 
\\ ill be disconnected unless they 
c •mply with mandatory power cut­
b.icks. 
But to date, neither Public Service Indiana (PSI) nor Indiana and Michigan Electric Company (I & M) have made good those threats, company spokesman said yesterday. 
The authority to pull the plug on violators was contained in the ct· 'ailment plan announced last rr nth by the Public Service Com­m ssion. In addition, the Commis­si •n authorized a ten percent -per-kilowat-hour surcharge for co­mercia! customers who exceeded their power allotment. 
"We have had some problems, 

~ 
::> 
m 
(/) 
~ 
0 0 
even though the overall coopera­tion has \been good," said Robert Norris, a spokesman for PSI, which implemented the cutbacks Feb. 20. There are several hundred throughout the PSI system who haven't reached the 25 percent reduction set for businesses, he said. 
"We try to work with them to achieve the reductions. Some of them haven't wanted '\o do their part," Norris said. "We don't want to shut anyone off until everything has been done. But in most cases, I think it is a case\of being unwilling." . \ 
So far, PSI -which serves 498,000 customers in 69 counties -­has not imposed the surcharge on excessive energy users. 
"If it does have to happen, if probably will happen on Monday, 
[condlned from page 1) dent Carter prepared to intervene. The contract later was rejected by the union's rank-and-file member­
ship. · · An industry spokesman said ·~icholas C~micia, president of 
Pittston. Coal Co., and Stonie Bark'r; president of island Creek Coat, met with miller in the union 
· chiefs office. Both Camicia and Barker have experience as under­ground miners, which is unusual among, top industry negotiators. 
Sources said substantive talks would begin without the presence of federal medi!ltors. 
Robinson, hearing arguments in the Carter administration request for a back-to-work order under the Taft-hartley Act, said, "I don't see how we can avoid it." 
But he calle~ Attorney General Griffin Bell and union and industrj lawyers into his chambers f9~ a private discussion of the wording of his order. 
Officials expect widespread ~ defiance of the back-to-work order by the striking miners, but Presi­dent Carter said at an afternoon 
Tutors needed 
Tutors are need on a one-to-one basis for a seventh grade boy in math and English and for a third grade boy in reading. Anyone interested can contact the Volun-
C),__~::::=:::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::=::::~~t~e~e~r~S~enn~·c~e~sJOffi~~c~~~a~t17~30~8~.----~ 

which is when we would begin shutting off power," Norris said. 
For I&M, serving 351,000 cus­tomers in Indiana's northeartern region, the record has been better. 
"Thirty nine customers were notified that they were not comply­ing completely,'' said I&M spokes­man Warren Widenhoffer. ''Some 
of them  were  very  close  to  full  
compliance."  
Widenhofer  said  those  firms  

represented just a fraction of the 
1

utility's 100,000 commercial and industrial users who generally have 
managed to reach the curtailments. 
The I&M letter warned that those firms will have one week to cut back or face disconnection. It read, in part, "In monitoring your account, we have found you were not in compliance. We certainly don't want to subject you to monetary penalties or disconnec­tion. But if you are not in compliance within seven days, we will have no other choice than disconnection.'' 
"We are very pleased with the way that people are responding, " Widenhofer added, pointing to an overall 20-25 percent reduction in consumption. 
Hoosier Energy, the third utility under the PSC cutback order, has not experienced any problems with non-compliance, said operations manager Robert Ross. 
"We don't serve any reatil customers, so the penalties would be imposed by the distribution cooperatives," he said. 
Hoosier Energy provides elctrici­ty to 17 rural power cooperatives in 22 southern Indiana counties. 


Contract negotiations continue 
THE FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF THE GENERAL 
t PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES invite all members of the Freshman Class, and others interested in joining ''the Program, to a social and informational meeting at 7:00p.m., Sunday, March 12; 1978, in the Memorial Library Lounge. 
Fritlay 3:00-6:00 3 4 25• Been 3-6 so• Wine 
AMBITIOUS 

WANTED 

All Majors. Start using your education and tra nlng without the years of menial chores expected of most starting pali­tlons. This Is an opportunity to take charge of ahighly trained staff of young people right away. Only those Inter­ested In advancement, challenging opportunities and fantastic benefits need apply. Call 312-657-2234 for an Interview. We are a DOD, EOE organization. 
..news conference, "The law must be enforced." The government and both sides in the strike have frequently said agreement on a contract to end the dispute is preferable to governemtn interven­tion. But officials have held out little hope that industrywide bar­gaining would produce and agree­ment that the miners would accept. In his news conference, Carter said he expected miners and opera­tors to obey the law. "This is a 
time for cooling off and we will do everything in our power to ensure tha it does not become a time of confrontation," he said. 
He said if "a moderate number'' of miners go back to work '' we can prevent a crisis evolving in our country.'' 
The president also said he had "absolutely no plans" · to ask Congress to pass legislation authorizing seizure of the strike­bound mines. 
Provost vacancy remains 
[continued from page 1] Ricci, student representative of the College of Business Administration placed an ad for the position in the nationally-circulated Chronicle for Higher Education. Letters were also sent to all University faculty and ranking staff, inviting nomina­·' tions and applications for the position va<::ated in August by Fr. James T. Burtchaell.. 
According to O'Meara, the committee reviewed the list of naems that were submitted, exa­mined information concerning the applicants, discussed their qualifi­cations, and voted on whether to accept them as candidates. "Then, ifwe were interested, we approach­ed them to see if they were still interested," he stated. 
Candidates wishing to pursue the interviewing process are then invited to the campus. "The reason for having them here is part of our learning about the candi­date, as well as them getting to 


Sophia Loren 
in 

Two Women Library Auditorium 1 Dollar 
Friday March 10 7 & 9 pm 
Sponsored by Dept. of Modem and Classical Languages 


Phllosophy: Meet Your Majors 

know us," O'Meara stressed. 
While at Notre Dame, candidates meet with the Academic Council, ·the major academic policy-making body on campus. This meeting satisfies the Academic Manual's requirement that elected members of the Council be consulted about all serious candidates for provost.. 
After all the candidates have met with the Council, the Search Com­mittee will present its recommen­dations for the position to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president. 
He will consider these, make his recommendations to the Academic Council, and the final considera­tions for the position will be presented to the Board of Trustees, who elects the provost. 
"The whole thing works out'to an advisory process that selectively sorts out the best candidates," O'Meara noted. He predicts taht the Search Committee's role in the process will be probably finished by the end of Marcl •. 
,. 

9:00-2:00 9 -10 2s• Been 11 12 $1.50 Pllehen 1M Entertainment 
Loealefl lowfer IMI SMC dinin hal Fm-funher infmmatim, oonmct Profs. Dam ~111101~ m-MrnaeiUmx, Room 337 O'S1ag., 7531. 
------~-----------~ 



Chaplin coffin still missing 
CORSIER SUR VEVEY, Swltzer­lanci [AP] -A Europe-wide search fot the body of Charlie Chaplin has turned up nothing and Swiss investigators said yesterday they are mystified over the theft of the coffirl from the village cemetery here a week ago. 
Initial theories that the theft of the oak coffin and body might have been the work of extortionists seem less likely now because no ransom demand has been received, inves­tigators said. · • 'No one has contacted the family or the authorities up to now," said Magistrate Jean-Daniel Tenthorey, who is beading the inquiry. "I suppose one must be surprised that nothing has yet developed after exactly one week. 
"We had one specific piece of information which was followed up in Italy but without results," Tenthorey said, declining to elabo­rate. He said the probe also has extended to Chaplin's native Eng­land following speculation that some fans had taken the body there in a perverse gesture of admira-. 
tion. "But there is nothing new," he ' said. 
Chaplin, who died Christmas morning at the age of 88, moved to this small village overlooking Lake Geneva in 1952. He starred in many American silent films and early "talkies," portraying the cane-twirling "Little Tramp." He left an estate which has been estimated at as much as $100 million. Local reports said royalties are still coming in at a rate of $13.3 million a year. 
Investigators theorize that at least three strong men must have sneaked into the walled cemetery sometime during the night of March 1 and March 2 and used picks nd1 shovels to dig up the grave. The thieves apparently dragged the 325-pound coffin and body to a waiting vehicle. 
Police continue to receive about 50 telephone calls a day from people with tips and suggestions. Several callers reported strange odors emanating from abandoned houses. And one man said he found, with the aid of a divining rod, pieces of earth from the Chaplin grave near a 6,000-foot high Alpine peak. The man's proposal to launch an extensive search of the area was not followed up. 
"I am not superstitious," said Tenthorey. "I have been in this business for 20 years and I think I know what and what not to believe." 
Corsier, a wine-growing village of 2,000 with a breath-taking view of Lake Geneva and the Alps, continues to buzz. Most residents still cling to the belief that the robbers eventually will make a demand for ransom. 
Chaplin's widow, Ona, daughter of playwright Eugene O'Neill, has declined to speak to the press and statements attributed to her in newspapers have been described as "complete fabrication" by family lawyer Jean-Felix Paschoud. 
A security guard has been posted at the entrance to the sprawling, 37-acre estate to keep out univited visitors. 
Soviets propose bomb treaty 
. GENEVA, Switzerland [AP] -The. '·-oviet Union proposed an interna­dt\nali treaty yesterday to outlaw ttle ~tron bomb and was prompt­ly accused of hypocrisy by the Cnited States in one of the sharpest East-West confrontations in recent years at the Geneva disarmament conference. 
Introducing the draft treaty to the 35-nation conference, Soviet chief delegate Victor I. !Likhachev said Moscow might take "retaliatory measures" if the "barbaric" weap­on is introduced into the Western arsenal. 
Likhachev said the neutron bomb would pose a threat to detente and "seriously undermine the belief of the peoples . . . in the success of ongoing disarmament negotia tions." 
U.S. Ambassador Adrian S. Fish­er reacted with what he called 
Pittsburgh Club bus reservations open Sunday 
Reservations for the Pittsburgh Oub's spring bus can be made in room 2D LaFortune this Sunday starting at 7 p.m. The buses will leave the ND/SMC campuses at 4 
p.m. next Friday. 
All reservations wiii be made on a first-come, first-served basis. For information, call Dan at 3664. 
WHC Workshop 


to feature 
Timothy Smith 
Timothy Smith, director of the Interfaith Center for Corporate Responsibility, National Council of Churches, will be the featured speaker at the World Hunger Coalition's workshop this Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Library Auditor-· ium. The theme of Smith's lecture is • 'Corporate Investments, South African Apartheid, and ND". 
The purpose of Sunday's work­shop is to educate the ND-SMC community to the suggestions of several developmental economists that certain multinational . corpor­ations have operated in less developed countries to the detri­ment of these countries. Included in the format for the workshop is a. film on racism in South Africa, "There is No Crisis," and a panel discussion on the effects of corporate multinationalism in South Africa. 
Professor Jlllmes Stewart will provide a short bacqround on South Africa and ProCessor Van Esterit. will do a case study of nestle in the Third World. 
"some plain talk which will not be pleasant talk." 
He said the months-long Soviet campaign against the neutron wea­pon focused only on one aspect of the arms race, and he challenged the Soviets to discuss their new . SS-20 multi-warhead missile, which is capable of striking any target in Europe "and which is now being deployed·in large numbers." 
"We have heard the Soviet re­presentative .. . speak of the in­humanity and barbarity of the neutron bomb," Fisher said. "But I fear that we would wait in vain to hear them speak of the humanity and barbarity of the nuclear wea­pons in the Soviet arsenal, some of which are as much as 20,000 times more powerful." 
He called the Soviet move a "one-sided propaganda excer­cise." 
The confrontation reflected a -"markedly frostier atmosphere" in· the 16-year-old Geneva conference, noted one Western diplomatic sou­rce. But he said it would not necessarily have an impact on the slow-moving Soviet-American stra­
tegic arms limitation negotiations ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::: 
or other East-West arms control talks. 
The neutron bomb is becoming an increasingly vulnerable point in America's defense plans, however, because some of its European allies are uneasy about possible deploy­ment of the weapon on their soil. 
The controversy has shaken West Germany's ruling Social Demo­cratic Party and led to the resigna­tion of the Dutch defense minister, who opposes the bomb and was subsequently supported by a ma­jority in the Dutch Parliament. 
President Carter has not yet decided whether to deploy the weapon and says his decision will be made in consultation with the NATO allies. 
The neutron bomb is a small warhead that would be place on Lance missiles and artiiiery shells. It produces twice the deadly radia­tion of a conventional nuclear bomb but less than a tenth as much explosive power, heat and fallout. This means the bomb can kiii people while causing little damage to buildings. 
Sunshine Prqmotions Notre Dame Student Union 
Present 
:toec1a1 GLest 



BOB WELCH 
also CLOVER WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 -7:30pm NOTRE DAME ACC 
All ~ts Reserved: $7.00 S $6.00 On Sale Now at Student Ticket 
· at ACC Box Office 
Friday, March 10, 1978 
the observer 


Six hijackers free 
NEW YORK [AP] -Six fugi­tives wanted for hijacking airliners to Cuba between 1969 and 1971 were supposed to be returned to the United States yesterday; but Air Canada officials refused to allow them on board a flight from Havana to Montreal, airline officials said. 
The FBI had siad the six would be flown to Montreal, where U.S. marshals would join them for a flight to New York's Kennedy Airport. FBI agents were stationed at Ken­nedy to arrest the six. 
But when the Air Canada flight touched down at Mon­treal last night, the six men were not aboard. 
Airline officials, Canadian police and the FBI said they did not know where the men were. 
Later, however, Air Can­ada's security chief at Mirabel Airport, Ed Johnson, said the airline was not satisfied with the security measures and refused to allow the fugitives to board in Havana. 
"The company was asked to carry the six from Havana to Montreal," Johnson said from the airport, 35 miles northwest of Montreal. ··'The airline was not given any more informa­tion except that they were called expatriates. You can call them what you like. We're caught in the middle of this one." 
He said Air Canada repre­sentatives went to Cuba to evaluate the situation earlier yesterday and concluded that security measures were inade­quate. 
The FBI, which had pre­pared a news conference near Kennedy Airport to herald the voluntary return of the six accused men, said the plan had not been "perfected for all partie» concerned." An FBI spokesman said the State Department had handled arrangements. 
However, a State Depart­ment spokesman, Ken Brown, said the department's only part in the plan was to obtain travel documents for the six. He would not comment on Air Canada's refusal to allow the men aboard the Havana to Montreal flight. 
SMC 

Blue Mantle (Yearbook) 
Now Accepting letters of Applications for: 
Editor-in-chief 

Asst Editor Photography Editor Business Editor 
Include: name, year, major, grade point, qualifications, idea for theme, etc, etc, 
Deadline is Friday, March 17th ~.:n Student Activities Office 166leMans 
l
• 
I ! ~ 


Friday, March 10, 1978

the observer 



Try it, you may like it 



Arsonists purge· Balboa Park Weekend marriages 

SAN DIEGO [AP] • Police on foot 
and on bicycles patrolled the lush 
expanses of Balboa Park yesterday, 
as San Diego nursed a civic pride 
wounded by a pair of unsolved 
arson fires that have destroyed two 
tourist landmarks. 
A special 16-man security squad 
also was hired to guard the 
1,400-acre park, downtown show­
piece of a city of 750,000 residents 
who generally think of themselves 
as having few of the problems that 
affect other urban areas. 
"We're going to do It all until we 
get results," Chief of Police Wil­
liam Kolender told a news confe-
Bradley to speak 

A reception for Bill Bradley, former New York Knicks basketball player and candidate for the U.S. Senate from New Jersey, will be held this Monday at 10 p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
Bradley is an honors graduate from Princeton and studied in England as a Rhodes Scholar. 
All interested faculty and stu­dents are invited to the reception sponsored by the Notre Dame/­Saint Mary's Young Democrats. Refreshments will be served. 
•.•mens nai' cutli1g 
at its finest  
Tues. & Wed.  8:30;6:30  
Thurs. &  Fri.  8:30-8:30  
Sat.  8 :30-5 :30  

renee after the famous Old Globe Theater, home of an annual Shakes peare festival, was destroyed Wednesday by fire. Two weeks ago, the Aero-Space Museum and its collection of flying machines, many of the irreplaceable antiques, was burned down. 
Mayor Pete Wilson annonunce a $5,000 reward for capture of the arsonists. The city's two news­papers, the Union and the Evening Tribune, each posted rewards of $2,500. 
"This whole town is grieving and plenty mad," said one of the hundreds of residents who came to the park Wednesday after word of the Old Globe fire spread. 
Yesterday another tenant of the park, the world-famed San Diego Zoo, which tumbles over 100 acres of semitropical terrain, ordered its workers to take special security precautions. So did administrators of other park museums and thea­ters, all crowded daily by tourists. 
Balboa Park is the second oldest major park in America, having 
been  established  in  1868,  three  
years  after  New  York's  Central  
Park.  '  

To add to San Diego's sudden image crisis, a few hours after the Old Globe fire, a massive power failure blacked out the entire county for 4% hours. However, there were no reports of the looting 
277-1691 272-0312 
54533 Terrace Lane Only 5 minutes from campus 




our haircuts 
are designed .for men & women with 
a style o_f 

their 9Wn 
HOURS: 9:00 AM -8:00PM 
401 w. 4lh S1reet Mishawaka 
259-9333 
HAIR DESIGN 







·osef's q 
that plagued New York during that city's latest blackout, and most residents here were goo-natured about the inconvenience. 
Capt. Art Robertson, an arson investigator, said the arsonists who set fire to the theater were not the same ones who started the Aero-Space fire. Both fires were said to be started by teen-age youths, but descriptions of them by passersby differed in the two incidents, he said. 
He said the ''Aero-Space Museum fire may have been set just to do malicious mischief," but in the case of the Globe, "They meant to get the building in this one." 
Meanwhile, plans were under · way to rebuild the Aero-Space Museum in the park's Ford Build­ing. Contributions were already pledged from airplane collections throughout the nation. 
A spokesman for the Old Globe said it would be rebuilt and this summer's festival would go on. 
Falling dollar hurts Gls 
Americans receive aid 
AUGSBURG, West Germany [AP)-Hundreds of West Germans have sent money to a fund for low-ranking Gls strapped by the fall of the dollar following a nationwide TV' program that reported their plight, an Army chaplain said yesterday. 
Col. Frank E. Deese, a Baptist chaplain at this post in south Germany, told The Associated Press he set up the fund Feb. 23 at a German bank to solicit contribu­tions from German civilians and 
U.S. military families. 
With the money, Deese plans to buy a van to provide free transpor­tation to low-cost military commis­saries, PXs and hospitals for GI families who cannot afford cars. 
A local newspaper published a story on the fund, and last Tuesday a national TV network broadcast a report on Deese's project. After the film report, the announcer said the station had been flooded with calls from people asking where they could send contributions. 
"That night I had to keep an interpretc;_r by the telephone until midnight," Deese said. "The next 
YOUTH IS OUR CONCERN 
The PIARISTS 
The priests and brothers of the Piarist Order have educated the young for over 300 years. We profess a fourth vow dedicating ourselves to educate youth ac· CMfing to the principles of Christ and of our foooder, St Joseph Calasanct1us. We worll in grade schools, high schools. CCD programs and parishes. For further information, write to: 
Vocation Diredor The Piarists 363 Valey Forae Road Dewan, Pennsylvania 19333 
day we had to take on another German-speaking girl to help handle the calls. Cats came in from all over Germany.'' 
As of yesterday the account had grown to $2,067 and other calls had promised more donations, Deese said. 
"Most of the callers say they are distressed at where the dollar is in relation to the mark, and they want to help," he said. "I have a great deal of respect and admiration for the German people, but I must say they came through more I had expected. I haven't received a single negative call." 
Emmi Schaller, the chaplain's German secretary, said some callers offered to sponsor American families by sending monthly dona­tions. Other offered to donate old cars. 
"One elderly lady offered to send $25 a month to a needy family 
for  as  long  as  they  were  in  
Germany," she said.  
"Some  people  want  to  send  

money directly to the families, and others ask me, 'How can I be sure the money will get to the needy 
AMHERST, Mass. [AP] -The weekend marriage, once an arrangement limited mostly to movie stars and traveling sales­men, is now a challenge faced by a growing number of professional couples. 
John and Adelle Simmons, for example, have been married 12 years. They have good jobs and two children. 
But for the past five years they have lived in different cities, seeing each other only on weekends. 
She is president of Hampshire College, a progressive liberal arts institution in western Massachu­setts. He is an economist for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. 
"When we started this I felt as if I were embarking on a grand experiment," said Simmons, 39. 
The Simmonses meet almost every weekend -occasionally in Washington, but usually at their home in Amherst. 
"If you only have weekends together, you don't let the little 


1sportati-_. Provided FREE of Charge for Parties of 3 or More 
things bother you," said Mrs. 
Simmons, 35. 
When there are children in the 
family, having both spouses at 
home can become almost a mini­
vacation. 
"Last night, for instance, our 1-year-old daughter was sick,'' said Mrs. Simmons. "So John spent half the night up with her, and I spent the other half." 
The weekend couple lifestyle is tied in with the American dream of career advancement. 
"Mobility is a fact of life," shrugged Howard Garrison, a pro­fessor at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond. 
Last year Garrison and his wife Dana split up their wordly goods, loaded a trailer and moved Mrs. Garrison to Chapel Hill, N.C., where she was enrolled at the University of North Carolina. 
"There was a lot of driving in between each weekend," he said. "But when we got together it was very exciting, very intense." 
families?' I tell them to please trust me as the chaplain and just send the money to the account," he said. "I'll make sure it gets to the people who need it." 
Since the beginning of 1976, the dollar has plummeted from about 
2.60 marks to about 2.03 marks, although private individuals receive less than that in exchang­ing their money at the banks. The dollar's slide in value against most of the world's major currencies is a reflection of the United States economic problems -inflation, high unemployment and a trade deficit of $26.7 billion in 1977, experts say. 
The dollar's fall hits hardest on low-ranking Gls with families, who do not qualify for free government housing and must live in German apartments. 



Ballet at StMary's 
Tonight and tomorrow, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre will present "A Glimpse of the Ballet: Romantic to Contemporary." This evening of music and dance features the ND-SMC Theatre Dance Ensemble, directed by Mim Sparks Field, and the premiere of a work by David Oark Isele. There will be a special guest appearance by members of the Indianapolis Ballet Theatre. The performance begins at 8:00 p.m. in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's College. Admission is free; Friday, March 10, 1978 
no  tickets  are  required.  For  
additional  information call  
284-4176.  

the observer 

Sewell criticizes modern society 
by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

"The modem world is dying for lack of magic," claimed visiting professor Elizabeth Sewell during a series of public lectures Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday even­ings. "Present-day psuedo­scientific, techno-analytic, manipu­lative methods of education have nothing to do with thinking or imagining. Is this deliberate or accidental?" she asked. 
Sewell presented three lectures sponsored by the English Depart­ment on the theme of "Oculus Imagionatis: The Way of High Magic" to capacity crowds in Hayes Healey Auditorium. She is presently teaching at Notre Dame after a brief term at the University of North Carolina. 
Sewe .. 's three lectures focused on the Platonic and Pythagorean tradition of cosmology, memory systems and the image of the theatre, and literary imagination as an alternative to the present linear or strictly rational methods of empiricism might have extraordin-

Elizabeth Sewell discussed the place of imagination and magic in society before a capacity crowd. 
Play recalls town's musician 
WELLS, Mlnn.[AP]-No black 
people live in Wells anymore, so a professional actor has been hired to help celebrate the turn-of-the-cen­tury life and times of Harry L. 1Gillam, this prarie town's one man 
music man. 
The play, slated for a three night run through Saturday in the higli school auditorium, features a cast of 80 of the town's 2,800 residents, ranging in age from 8 to 85. 
Children dressed as chickens and cows prance through a farmers on stage dream, while farm boys with, pitch forks sing the praises of farm fragrances: 
"Manure! Manure!" they sing. ''Oh in the air you get a sniff of it, a definite whiff of it. Manure is just a fancy name for something we call .... " Loud music drowns out the final word. 
The play, called "A Common Feeling" is loosely based on the life of Gillam, who moved to this southern Minnesota town from Detroit in 1899 and lived there until his death in 1929 at the age of 57. He and his wife were Wells' only black residents. 
Gillam is being played by Danny Clark of Minneapolis, the only professional actor in the cast. 
Some peope still remember Gil­lam's candy store and his "panito­rium" where he sponged and pressed suits. But they especially remember his music. He gave lessons to children on all instru­ments, $10 for 24 lessons, and set up bands in several nearby towns. 
"I took piano lessons from him 
Frosh Council 
announces 
SMC formal 
The Saint Mary's Frosh Council has announced plans for its April 14 "Pieces of April" formal, to be held at the Century Center in South Bend. Tickets will be $6.50. 
The Council will also sponsor a sale of St. Patrick's Day cookies this Tuesday and Wednesday in the LeMans lobby. In addition, class t-shirts will be available within the next few weeks for S3.75. 
ary powers of healing for an ailing society. 
''Society is in an appalling situation. We have become atomized , we have ruined our institutions. Our twentieth century snobbery tells us we know more 
'than the poets, the alchemists. Actually we know a great deal less. We are trained so silently and sedulously that there are great gulfs of ignorance withing our­selves," she said. 
Sewell termed "high magic", the theme of her lectures, as having nothing to do with black art, sorcery, witchcraft or the occult. Instead, she explained it as a power or catalyst illiciting the "genius" or daimon which exists in the individual. She urged that one should tum inward to the universe of his mind -to the reservoir of inherently powerful images which have something to say to us. 
"The Renaissance went forward by going backwards. Somehow I feel that a treasury has been lost to us -you might feel it too," Sewell suggested in pointing out the merits of "high magic" disciplines which modern education ignores. 
The Eye of the Imagination, the eye that looks without and within, she characterized as having power to reach the real universe -the world of "ET EST NON" -it is and it is not. Sewell relied on the 
images of the sun, math, music, -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~iiiiiiiiiiiliiiil~;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiil~~~~;;;;~
ND.

the triple theatre of the head, our • 
dreams, our memory and the transformational goddess Circe as sources of imaginative power. 
Quoting Caleridege to whom
Sewell said she was apprenticed before Blake and the Renaissance mystic Gordono Bruno, she said, 'The first aim of education is to excite power.' She cited Circe, the goddess who could turn men into beasts, as the most notable exam­ple of an image that has the power to stir great imaginings. 


She expressed pleasure at being able to use the woman image, Circe, as most mega-images are men, and continued, "The Sund woman's transformational powers affect not only dreams, the individ­uals mind and the mids of others, but also have powere over things, matter ... the natural world." 
''The power of transformation, magic, is operative in its aims and intentions. There's no question about it. This is its original and close connections with science ­that it is operative in the actual world. This is the great doctrine of metamorphosise," she said. 
Sewell added that the whole alchemical tradition, which has been lost by the moderns, is another aspect of the transforma­tion of the universe. She claimed that alchemy not only represents what happens in the soul, but what happens in the world. Even Isaac newton, a practicing alchemist, speaks of the universe as transfor­mational when he wrote that bodies transform light and light into bodies, she pointed out. 
for four years,'' recalls Hinie erally funded arts program run by Schreiber, 74. He'd put on musical James Ramaker, head of an arts-' shows and in the summer, why education project at Wells High· he'd have the bandwagon rolling School. The play was put together up and down the street every with help from faculty at Mankato 
Saturday night.'' State University 35 miles away. 
Schreiber said few townspeople Wells is just SO miles north­took notice of Mr. Gillam's race. west of Mason City, Iowa, the 
The $10,000 musical is the setting for Meredith Willson's 


Gri:e' 
SMC 

o e 111EA1RE
1la11et 

directed uy Mim Sparks Field, featuring the premiere of a V't/011< by David Clark lsele, guest appearanm by members of the Indianapolis Ballet Theatre. 

March 
10 -& 11 
Admission Free 8:00PM 
CHECK YOUR LOCAL NEWSPAPER FOR THEATRE LISTING 
In short, Sewell said she beleives that mind does affect matter, and cited psychokinesis as proof. She said, although science is aware of this, it has chosen to ignore the phenomenon, as it is incapable of dealing with it at the present time. 
Sewell urged that modern methods of education should expunge all conceptions of the universe which view it as one of rigid linear courses, rivalry, comp­etition, random atoms and hostil. ity. 
"Think of the universe which is harmonious, correspondant -one in which everything resonates into everything else, the universe of the rnonchord, the universe of love which moves the sun, the universe of music without and within. The poets are aware of this. The images of the mind can move out to have universal meaning," she stressed. 
Professor Sewell received her doctorate from Cambridge Univer­sity and holds honorary degrees from St. Peter's College in New jersey and Fordham University. The author of three novels and three volumes of poetry, she has also published numerous works of criticiam, including The Structure of Poetry, Paul Valery: The Mind In the Mirror, The field of Nonsense, The Orphic Voice:Poetry and Natural IDstory, and The Haman Metaphor. 
, 
*The Observer ~ 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinion and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Friday, March 10, 197R 
seriously, foIks !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
More Red Tape to Measure Elevator Riders 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_. art buchwald 
Washington--President Carter's 
long-awaited civil service reforms 
have finally been unveiled and, like 
most of Mr. Carter's plans, they 
sound swell on paper. The 
President wants to get the govern­
ment on a more businesslike foot­
ing by rewarding those who do a 
good job with merit raises and by 
punishing those who do a bad job 
with dismissal. He would also 
protect whistle blowers who, by 
going public, embarrass their 
bosses and find themselves booted 
out in the street. 
All well and good. So what's the 
problem? The problem is that no 
one, including the President, Con­
gress and the Supreme Court, has 
ever defined exactly what a govern­
ment employee should do. There 
are job descriptions in the civil 
service regulations, but since the 
government is not a profit-making 
organization it is almost impossible 
to accurately measure a civil ser­
vant's productivity. 
For example, I work in a building 
on Pennsylvania Ave. in which six 
of the 13 floors are rented to a 
government agency. Since I am 
located on the thirteenth floor I 
come into contact with government 
employees every day. Some are 
going from the sinh floor to the 
seventh. Others from the second to 
the tenth and still others from the 
fifth to the ninth. They are always 
carrying official-looking papers in 
their hands so I have to assume 
they are doing something very 
important. 
The question is, are government employees who move up and down in the elevator and whiz to and fro more productive than those who sit in their offices reading The Washington Post funnies? 
The elevator rider, you may say, is giving us a bigger bang for our buck. He or she is engaged in the nation's business of writing new regulations, interpreting old ones, sending out memoranda, stamping classified material, setting up com­mittees, turning out reports and doing all the things expected from a servant of the people. 
So surely he or she should be given a raise and a promotion. 
Perhaps. But the elevator rider is also the person making the government more unwiedly and 
impossible to control. By going 
from the second floor to the tenth ·he or she may be responsible for a 
new regulation putting 10,000 
people out of work, making a 
national park into a coal mine or 
giving the go-ahead on a new 
missile that will never fly. 
A short trip from the fifth to the 
sixth floor by an innocent-looking 
chap with a pipe clamped in his 
mouth could cost every man, 
woman and child in this country 
$165. 
After traveling up and down the 
capital's elevators for 16 years, I 
have come to the sad conclusion 
that those government employees 
doing the most work in Washington 
are also doing the most damage. 
Therefore, before I go along with 
Carter's reform package he's going 
to have to spell out exactly what he 
expects government employees to 
do for--their salaries. My fear is 
that, by instituting a merit system 
and causing government emplo­
yees to compete against each other, 
the President will not reduce but 
add to all the red tape he said he 
was going to eliminate when he 
became President. 
If employee Brown submits a 
10-page regulation on the amount 
of whipped cream permitted in an 
Amaretto liqueur, will employee 
Guggenheim write a 20-page regu­
lation to outdo him? 
Compared to other countries, the bureaucrats in the United States have been like a sleeping giant. But if you threaten them with demotion and dangle financial incentives in front of them, they could become an aroused beast, prepared to regulate anything that gets in their way. 
Before it approves the Carter Administration's reform package I believe Congress should ask itself the following questions: 
l--Is a government employee who puts in an honest day's work making any worthwhile contribu­tion to society? 
2--By taking an elevator from one floor to another is a bureaucrat saving us money or merely wasting the country's energy? 
3--If you fire all the drones in the government and keep only the overachievers, who will be left to blame when a giant federal pro­gram fails and goes down the tube? 






SMC Candidates Comment 
Darragh-Pope-Carden 
We would like to contest the validity of 
the editorial board's endorsement on the 
basis of its ambiguous and unqualified 
assessment of our assumed capabilities. 
The value judgements made in the 
article seem superfluous and self-contra­
dictory. Formulation of a "comprehensive 
platform" should be the major respecter of 
candidate qualification. Lack of experience 
need not be a detrimental factor and should 
not be assumed as such. It has not in any 
way impaired the effectiveness of the previous administration. Coupled with this is the ensured experience that will be gained during an extensive initiation period with the current officers. This assumed liability was further qualified as a "serious" one, hindering our campaign on the basis of magnified and ungrounded assumptions. 
The only -two areas cited as nebulous concerned "realization of the potential we see in the student body'' and the 21 Oub developments. ''Realization...student body" is an intended abstraction expressly set forth to incorporate the overall ideal of the campaign. It is a concept articulated to set the tone for our administration. It was never meant to be a manifesto expressing specific solid action. We felt that our intended concrete activities were suffi­ciently contained within our stipulated platform. 
As for the statement concerning the 21 Oub, we based our "uncertainty" on lack of data. Due to the novelty of the 21 Club, conclusive results concerning its success will not be available for some time. In addition, as candidates, we have no jurisdiction to wield concerning the policies of the Oub. Therefore, we could not effectively speculate on the future of the 21 Oub. 
We feel that the coverage given us by the editorial board was neither conclusive nor valid. As a result of the editorial, we feel 1 our campaign has been hindered without due cause. We hope that any possible damage wrought by these faulty assumptions can be thwarted by our enthusiasm and hard work. 

Tuohy-Wixted-Mullaney 
This is not our final statement; there is nothing final about the needs of the Saint Mary's students. On the contrary, an active Student Body always has needs. 
We only begin to work: for and represent Saint Mary's students with a statement of our platform. In action next year, our platform will match the activities of the students it promises to represent. 
Already implemented are such activities and issues as the SMC 21-Club, continued expansion of SMC Career Development Office, and the Rape Awareness Seminars. We support these issues and ·activities and accept the challenge to maintain them. 
Our platform seeks to discover and work: for the needs of the Saint Mary's students. We want Saint Mary's students to know and appreciate the power and the duties of the Student Assembly; it is a powerful Student Government body that is under­played. We will encourage and implement interaction between SMC and ND Student Governments; cooperative ventures tend to be very successful. We want our students to know about and join Saint Mary's clubs and organizations not because they are forced to, but because they know what opportunities are available for them. We want to research and compile an inform­ative guide for Saint Mary's students who want to know more about the college they attend. We plan to appoint an R.A. who will represent the R.A. Staff at Board of Governance meetings. The presence of and R.A. at these meetings will open communication between dormitory resi­dents and Student Government. 
Again, this is not our final statement. It will take your vote to activate not only our platform but our efforts for you, the Saint Mary's students. 
SMC Elections Monday Seniors May Vote 

~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii P..0. BOX Q 
Another side 
of the Grace 
eviction 

Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to the 
letter in Wednesday's Observer 
wherein Stephen M. Dane and 
John J. Talbot adress the recent 
removal of two students from Grace 
Hall. Misters Dane and Talbot 
argue that: 
1. 
"They were never charged with committing any Hall or Uni­versity offenses." 

2. 
"They were never warned that their behavior during the semester would result in discipli­nary action." 

3. 
"The Hall Judicial Board was never called together." 


Concerning the first point, there was a serious offense involved. If it had occurred elsewhere, the par­tieswould have beenarrested. The two students in this case were told the reasons for our action, they were confronted with the evidence, they admitted the act. There were no formal "charges" because such action would constitute stricter disciplinary procedure. 
2. They were warned that their behavior would result in discipli­nary action. J'he laws are clearly stated in Du Lac and the civil code. The norms are obvious in terms of even the most primitive ethics. Both studenst have been confron­ted by RA 's and head staff on several occasions this year and last. To argue that a normal probation is an absolute and necessary step in all cases is to say that all criminals can get away with a crime the first time, or that people cannot tell right from wrong. Notre Dame students are not stupid. 
3. The Hall Judicial Board was not called together because there was no hall J-Boanl at that time. If there had been a J-Board, I would have used it. I'm glad we have one now. I believe that Grace Hall was the first hall on campus to imple­ment the new judicial board pro­cess. I've gone on record strongly several times in support of J­Boards. (Cf. the fall Observer article interviewing rectors in res­ponse to new j-board procedures.) 
I am not writing to defend my 
actions. My hope is that the 
disciplinary process at Notre Dame 
may be defended by more intelli­
gent criticism than yesterday's 
letter evinces. 
Thomas Splain, S.J. 
Rector, Grace Ball 

... a year abroad 
Dear Editor: 
Letters seem to crop up periodi­cally during the school year in The Observer praising the benefits of foreign study--and this letter is no exception. Thinking back to myself as a freshman last year, undecided upon a lot of things in my life, not only to a major but to what I really wanted to do in the future, I can remember my doubts .as to the . 
benefits of the year abroad--in my 
case, Mexico. 
At times I stilt think my ques­tions about my future are unan­swered, but in tl.is time abroad I have experienced many things that have come to shape my life. Besides all the fantastic stories each of us 18 from Notre Dame can tell, from sunny days spent on the beaches of Acapulco to climbing around on the thousand-and-one pyramids here in Mexico, there is also a lot of time spent discovering oneself. 
The challenges of adjusting to a new culture, let alone the problems of the language, are immense. Thrown into the midst of this new environment one learns that it takes more than a smile to get by, although a smile sure can help. Things that seem so elementary-­like asking for the time--take on new dimensions. 
And coupled with these cultural and language barriers there is always the yearning to have things as we know then--like having a McDonalds down the block. The biggest advantage to the foreign year abroad is precisely this: one learns to accept the differences. Here, surrounded by a city of who-knows-how-many million people and away from the friendly camp-like confines CJf Notre Dame, one gets a taste of life, but more importantly one realizes a lot about himself. 
J.w. Randall Mexfco78 



~etters to a lonely God 
Hank and I have been in love for three years now. We learned a lot about each other in those three years. We're finishing growing up together. We've been ready for marriage for some time now, but we're both in school and don't have the money. Unless we find a pot of gold somewhere, it will probably be two and one-half years before we can get married... Well, we've been especially close lately, shar­ing everything, at peace with each other and just great, with total sharing and caring for each other, and it seemed like the right moment and we had intercourse. No, we made love. It sounds so strange on paper....It doesn't seem it was wrong to me, it seemed right. Yet, it seems for some reason I'm seeking approval, not by people, but by God .... 
--excerpt from a letter My dear, full of love as you are, and so trusting of a stranger, I don't doubt how much you care for Hank, or how much he cares for you; or that both of you, at the ripe old age of twenty, want very much to get married. If I were you, as much in love as you are, I would want to get married too. I will not pretend to be able to remember whether love, at the age of renty is already merely comfortable, like warm mitten sheltering a baby's fist; or 
•rhether it is as heady as a gracious wine hat flutters the heart until it soars like a 
inging lark. Love, at the age of twenty, is ' dl of touches, hugs, and embraces. :)ometimes, lovers at the age of twenty couldn't be closer if they were Siamese twins; moving around arm in arm, sharing private ecstasies, discovering heaven in the other's face. Love at twenty is precious to behold. It is the theme of sonnets, the mood of love songs; younger than spring­time, gayer than laughter. Clocks lose the time, the earth stops spinning when the moonlight plays tricks with your young love's face. Love at forty doesn't need the moonlight. At forty, passion is more gentle and reverent. At eighty, it is mostly a matter of partners, with great tenderness, looking after each other. 
In the best love stories, do the lovers always have to be touching each other, 
America and special guest Michael Murphey put on a short but entertaining musical show last night at the ACC. Not only did the "tin men" perform their usual favorites, they did so with an added amount of guitar work. Solo and jam pieces were added to various songs throughout the evening toadd luster to an otherwise ordinary performance. 
One could have mistaken opening act 
Michael Murphey for Steve Miller. He was 
on stage for less than one half hour when 
he "took the money and ran." Murphey 
played his best number, "Wildfire", 
before he departed. It did, however, take 
two trys to get "wildfire" started. 
America opened by mixing their well known material such as "Muskrat Love", "I Need You" and "Daisy Jane", with their lesser known music. This tact seemed to keep the audience from really getting into the flow of the concert. 
These other songs were, however, very good. Two of those which come to mind are "Norman", a song about a close friend of the band members, and "Hollywood", which describes the party scene on the coast. A line from this song which typifies its content is "Come to the party and drink on me." Tom Walsh, who's percussion was good all night, did a fine job of playing the vibes for this number. 
The band members joked to the crowd about their transition to the next number "Sandman" but they were in the midst of the best part of their performance. While guitar jams were interspersed in many songs, those included in "Sandman" were both the longest and the best of the night. All the members of the band seemed to really enjoy their performance of this song. 
They closed the one and one half hour set with "Sister Golden Hair," the song which met with the most audience reaction of the evening. Overall, the reaction of the 
So Trusting of a Stranger 
finding contentment in the true love's flesh? Cannot restraint from touching-­when needed for reasons of health or a partner's weariness--be as loving a gesture as the honeymoon ecstasies at Acapulco? 
My dear friend, beloved of Hank, sometimes being a husband or wife means living for months or years together without ever becoming more physical than a tender embrace. I don't know, in the lives of my friends, how frequently sexual abstinence occurs; almost never, I would hope. But there are accounts I have heard that tell me marriage has its heroes and heroines called to the sacrifice of the most delicate pleasures. In plain words, sometimes the most loving kindness you can offer an adored spouse is not to have sex with him or her, because there are circumstances (physical or psychological health, for example) that would make sex harmful for the time being. 
It was indeed very loving for you and Hank to have sex together, but wouldn't it have been more loving not to have had sex, because at this moment ofyourlife--young and unmarried--you fear the harm that sex can cause you? Both of you are in college; education and a career, it seems, must come before marriage. Hank can't take care of you as a wife; as a matter of fact, as a student, he can't take care of himself. Not to belittle your education, there are term papers to be written, and chem labs to be finished with; your future awaits the growth of your mind. Hard though it is for you to hear, in some ways society still looks on you as children. You are not children, of course; you are young adults. Neverthe­less, don't be in too much of a hurry to 
Murphey and the ~Tin Men' 
crowd was typical for an ACC concert. The crowd sits on its hands for most of the performance, stands for "Sister Golden Hair", which seems like the logical closing number, and then induces the band to 
Michael Murphey (below) photos by Doug Christian 
I 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
grow up, or you'll spend more years tftan you can bear wishing you were young again. 
For a number of years, you have been biologically ready for marriage. You could make physical love, no doubt, when you were fifteen. Flesh can be more wistful with yearning at sixteen or seventeen than it will be at twenty-five. If you are otherwise as ready for marriage as you feel you are, why don't you visit the preacher? By God, if I loved a girl, and I felt that she and I were married in every way but legal fact, I would make the trip to the priest's house before the ink was dry on my homework. If I hesitated for practical reasons like money, I would ask myself if it is a boy or a man who invites a young woman to take the risks of marriage without being able to furnish her with a single one of its safeguards? 
My dear, I will_!!ot tell you that you are 
very young for marriage. As a sophomore in college, you are much too young and too vulnerable to be taking the risks involved in sex. No matter how intensely you may love Hank, you cannot be sure that age or the college experience will not change him or you. The next three years can be full of surprises; you could completely outgrow one another. The sexual relationship--in the tradition that you and I, as Catholics, are fond of--is intended to contribute to the making of a bond that lasts for a lifetime. It is not convenient for you and Hank to establish that bond in any form that gives it permanence. Then why play at marriage in a game that can leave you feeling shabby? Why take risks that can leave you scarred 
return to the stage for one encore. One encore is enough and the crowd leaves. In recent memory, only the CSN concert di9 not follow this pattern. 
The only encore song ''A Horse with No 
Gerry Beckley (left) of America and 
for a lifetime? 

My dear, I am a very old-fashioned man. I believe in God and in the rules for getting to heaven. As beautiful as I think you are, there is no way I can give my approval to sexual intimacies between you and Hank. I think you risk too much. You love God, you say, and you love Hank. I think you can love Hank best by doing, with God's help, exactly what your conscience tells you to do. There is no easier advice I have to give you. 
I thank you for writing, so full of trust, to a stranger. Italmost makes me wish I were twenty again, so that I could fall in love myself. I really wish I hadn't forgotten whether love, at twenty, is already as comfortable as a warm mitten on a baby's fist. 
Cl) 
CD
... 




:::3
... 
... ... ~ ca 
.f

Cl) CD 
Cl)




!! .Q
:::3

... 0 



"' CD 

by tony pace 
Name", a personal favorite was a satis­fying ending to the show. America had a good rapport with the crowd, but Michael Murphey never was introduced. 
By God, if I loued a girl, and Ifelt that she and I were married in euery way but legal fact, I would make the trip to the priest's house before the ink was dry on the my homework 



r,.....~._-_-___,t>Lih..,eL-'IIo F_ri_d_.:ay~,_M_a_r_ch_1_o..:....,_19_7_a
....b...,s!IE;e.._rv,._,e!EJrL_______ 
···ctJil•······warJCe·rs·············;eact
Somalia withdraws troops 




Somalia said yesterday it is withdrawing its regular army troops from Ethiopia's dispute<4 Ogaden Desert, where they have· been helping ethnic Somali tribes­men in their war against Ethiopianrule. 
In Washington, President Carter praised the Somali decision and called on The Soviet Union and Cuba to leave the area as well. 
"The United States looks for­ward to the withdrawal of all foreign forces at an early date," Carter said at a news conference. 
Ethiopian forces, with Cuban and Soviet support, appear to have been routing the outnumbered Somali regular army forces and the insurgents in the northern part of the Ogaden recently. The ethnic Somalis have been fighting to take the area from Ethiopia since last July. 
The government said the decision to withcraw regular troops was made to help bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict and because of pressure from the ''bigpowPrs." 
"In view of the proposals of the big powers to settle the crisis in the Horn of Africa peacefully and to withdraw all foreign forces from the region...the central committee of the Somali Socialist Revolu­tionary Party has approved a resolution that the S.D.R. (Somali Democratic Republic) should recall its units from the front," the announcement said. ''In light of this, the Somali Democratic Repub­lic calls upon the, big powers to insure: 


''1. The withdrawal of all foreign forces from the Horn of Africa. 
2. 
The recognition by the parties concerned and the exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of western Somalia and Ogaden. 

3. 
Urgently initiate the powers for bringing about a peaceful, just and lasting negotiated settlement to the conflict in the Horn of Africa." 


The Somali announcement was the first admission by the govern­ment that its troops were taking part in the conflict. 
The statement, claiming the people of the Ogaden are fighting for self-determination said Somali~ sent regular army units to the regton to support insurgents of the Western Somali Liberation Front, which at one time claimed it controlled about 90 percent of the desert. 

oflrnl~~ 


The statement said Somalia sent troops into the Ogaden after Ethi­opia's Cuban and Soviet-backed forces lauched air raids on Somali territory, causing "the death of numerous innocent civilians and a heavy economic 1loss to the country.'' 
Somalia's announcement of the withdrawal fulfills conditions repeatedly made by Ethiopia to implement a cease-fire in the war and may pave the way for Western countries to supply Somalia with defensive weapons. 
Last July, President Carter agn~ed "in principle" to supply Somalia with defensive arms. The Somalis at that time had broken thei:r defense relationship with the Soviets. 
Prof. Gabriel 
to address 

symposium 

of ~~~\~~~! ~m~~~~~=~ad~~~!~~
1 

on The Umverstty: Mediaeval & ·· ···· · · • : '••'•iii ·••· '•It · ,!,: ..,.4 I .. , ...•.t•.·.r.•.· ~odern." this weekend at Assump­
~~:.:~;5:~:~.ci;~:.: Bfli.•.•. ....•...••. ··.···.:·n····,.....tl....•....••.....••..•..•..•.••••..••.•f.~ ...••..••'.····h·········,···n················'·····:·e··•...••....••....•:.....•..•.••.•.i....•. :loy•.:.·.~£~'..••....~.:~.·.· ..s'····.•.; '·
:·.···········.·e~..... •.•.••·..·• ..•..•..••..ee.'o···'·''··········.·.·..•.••.••.l.········m·········m·.·'· .•.• ... ..••. ·.f....~.:.'.·se.·.···~.:•.v.fue.J .......···a·e········.·.····:.• ...~:fLF:~~~!~ 
tton Umversity, Ontario, Canada. 
I 

Gabriel, a specialist in the his­tory of medieval education, will speak on "Henry of Hess, Theore­tician and Reformer of the Medi­eval University." 
As president of the International Commission for the History of Universities, Gabriel also recently announced topics for the organiza­tion's meeting in Bucharest in August, 1980. Papers have been invited dealing with teaching tech­niques at universities prior to 1914 and with historical aspects of universities during the same period. Final selection of papers will be made by representatives of the 18 nations comprising the Commission, which is affiliated with the International Committee of Historical Sciences. 
Spanish dancers perform 
Over $SO,OOO in authentic Spanish costumes, three years of rehearsals and the +alents of two of the world's most eminent Spanish dancers culminate in "Spanish Dances in Concert,'' coming to O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College, Monday at 8 p.m. 
Tickets and reservations for the dance concert can be obtained by calling 284-4176, 9 a.m.-noon and 1-4 p.m. Regular admission is $4.00 and student tickets are $2.00. 
"Spanish Dances in Concert" consists of over a dozen numbers 
See MR.ART ARENS, Corporate Employment Representative 
Mr. Steve Gutschenritter, 
ChE Notre Dame '77 March 13th 8:30a.m.-4:45p.m. Placement Bureau ADMINISTRATION BLDG. 


Shot paralyzes Flynt 
Hustler magazine owner Larry Flynt is paralyzed from the hips down with less than a SO-SO chance of ever walking again, according to the surgeon who removed a bullet from Flynt's lower back yesterday. 
Flynt, 34, who was shot Monday outside a Georgia courthouse where he was being tried on obscenity charges, cannot move his lower extremities, Dr. George Tin­dall, Emory University Hospital's chief neurosurgeon, told reporters after the 2V2-hour operation. 
Dr. Scott McCloskey, a medical resident who assissted in the operation, said Flynt probably will remain here for several weeks and is scheduled to begin physical ~~j ~ ·~~Jana leatl¢t~ ilf..'~he· ;~~It definitely have coal on line United, Foal Miners were dthernot and in transJ?Ortation at least the 'l?~rt'J,et.fiU or l>eing c;:arefm with second, day that we're back at tJb~it w9rds yesterday when work/' he added. 
questione!J ~h()l!t reaction to, the back•tQ•WOtl(c)tder jssued in Wash­ibgwl1; ...· (. > .·· ••••••{· 
·.·.··•·•···· •a !}on'~ ~ow fQJ:" stire \\Jhat my
mc!ll's. re~9n Will be;n said 
·. aayn.}:f:lariqge; presidentofJ,ocal ;1~2 wli~¢1:( had vbf;ed to reject the ~t:J.~tivec~t:J.ttactsettlement earlier by Art 88~23 mal'gain. '!limagble ~e'lli go ba~~~U<he said. ..· "I'll probably order the men back/} 
Bill IJee~;tn executive director of the, hldian~ Coal Association, sai9}twou1dn't take long for the inine~ ~o bec0m~ operational if,the minet.:$ .'·do decide to .obey the 
•injunctioJ'l•an action most ob~ef\Ters ..had preil!cted earlier would be ! iinJik~l~~ .. ·. ·. . . 
''_Nfostof the machinet.:y in our 
· tiline~ in. Indi~na bas been kept in readin~ss Ance we went out on strike p~\6" $aid Beeman· '!The g?m,papY n~opte have ~c:ept tb«:! Wl1~i~¢t'Yi~b~latgedtaglin~~;.tbe
s~?Y~I$lti; ~~,. p~ts. the {rc:mt ~11~ 1p~9~~~ ajtd ~11 ~~e ~~;:ce~~~ry~quipm~~tfot ~:weration QfJPbte~ 
exploring a variety of folk, classical and flamenco dances, all accom­panied by the renowned flamenco guitarist, Nico Angel. Los Espan­oles, flamenco singers Jesus Rivon and Thomas Ballesteros, will also appear with the dancers. 
The entire production has been conceived, choreographed and directed by Pascual Olivera an 
Angela Del Moral. All costumes, hats, boots and accessories for this production have been made in Spain from authentic designs as to period, character and province. 
"B.eeman explained his estima· ted timetable depended on a full complement of' men at each line 
doing all the jobs that are neces· 
sary. 
The order issued in Washingto!l 
was effective at 7 a.m., tpday b~t tt 
was expected that federal. offictals 
would have to serve it bef,ore the 
miner~ could be expected ~o return. 
.La~y . Reyno~<Js, . prestdent of 
Dtstrict ll, whtch mcludts all of 
Indiana's UMW workers, was una· 
vailable f?r comm~nt. However, he 
h~d prev10u~ly satd he would_ tell 
mmers to r,et,urp .to wor~ tf a 
Taft-Hartley.mjunctton was tssue?· 
Asecretary tn the U~W off!ce satd 
Reynolds was meetmg wtth the 
union'~ attorney as the injunction 
-.vas bemg prepared yesterday; , 
Later, Gus Taber. the ~m~n s 
attorney gave an apparent tndJca­
t~o~ of his cxpe7tationl! conceming 
ac~!on_by the rn1ners.. . . . Ht.s (C~tte~ s} fatlure. to setze the.. m.mes •s k~nd of~ tnut;t?ph ?f .·. opt!m1sm over experumce, smd 
therapy in a few days. 
At an afternoon news confer­
ence, McCloskey said Flynt was 
feeling better and that his blood 
pressure and other vital signs were 
stable. 
Tindall also removed bullet frag­
ments and bone chips from Flynt's 
spinal canal at the third lumbar 
vertebra during the operation, 
which was performed with guards 
at both doors to the operating 
room. 
"There is less than a SO percent 
potential for regeneration," Tindall 
said. 
Flynt and one of his attorneys, GeneReeves Jr., 47, were shot as they walked along a street in Lawrenceville. Reeves was in satisfactory condition Thursday in the intensive care unit of Button Gwinnett Hospital in Lawrence­ville, according to hospital admin­istrator John Hughes. 
It will take six months to a year to know the extent of permanent damage, Tindall said. 
Court team competes 

The Notre Dame Jessup lnterna­titmal Moot Court team will travel to Ohio Northern University today to represent the ND Law School in the Jessup competition. 
Over 100 schools from 20 coun­tries will take part in this year's competition, held in several loca­tions throughout the United States and Europe. 
Representing Notre Dame will be: Ellen Daly, Carl Gamble , Michael Grossman, and William Thornton. Professor Tang Thi Thanh Trai Le will accompany the team to Ohio. 
Recital features Michael Toth 
The Notre Dame Music Depart-· ment will present Michael Toth, master of music candidate under William Cerny, in a piano recital at 
8: 1S p.m. Sunday in Crowley Recital Hall. 
Toth received a bachelor · of music degree in 1977 from the Eastman School of Music, where he studied with Frank Glazer. 
The program on Sunday will include the English Suite in A minor of J.S. Bach, the Mozart Sonata in B flat, K. 281, and Chopin's Scherzo in B flat minor. 
Main Building 

JOB INTERVIE\.15 ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS lN THE I"'AY AND AUGUST CLASSES •• ,, •••• .Arrt WI«> INTEND TO HAVE IN'I'ERVIEWS foll'ST HAVE A COMPLETED PROFILE (REGISTRATION) FORM ON FILE AT 'l'HE PLACE~NT BUREAU ••• REGISTRATION, INTERVIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLDYER LITERA'I1:1i.E ARE IN ROOM 213, K'.IN BUILDING,,,,,,,,,PUCEN!:NT BUREAU IS OPEN 8:00 A,M. TO 5:00P.M., l'f)NDAY THROUGH FRIDAY,,,,,,,,,OONSULT THE PIACE!'£NT MANUAL FOR ADDITIONAL INFORti.'TION REGA-RDING INTERVIEW AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
A~"D PROCEDURES, 
YOU I'IJST SIGN POR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY. 
nm SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8:00 A,H. TO 5:00 P.H., KJNDAY 'rHROUGH THURSDAY. 
IN'TIRVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR !i\RCH 29, 30 and 31. S~GN-UP FOR IhrERVIEWS WITH E:iPLOYERS LISTED BELOW DURING THE VIEit. OF HI\RCH 1 . 
INTERVIEWS 

DAT! 
ALIIAI!CSCLWMIIA 

Huch 29 
~ 
Much 30 
~ 
Karch 31 
~ 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X X 
X X 
X X 
X X X 
X 
I 
X X 


I I I 
I 
I I
: I 
X 
I ; 
X X I I ' 
.1.1 
I 
,. 

WILL BE CONDUCTED AFTER SPRING Bf..EAK 
·Boar'• Head Restaurant * All BBA. For Restaurant Management Trainee, Locations: Balically Midwest but will refer to other locations throughout U.S. Perm. Res. Vita required. 
Campbe11 Sales Co * B ln Ub. Arta and Bus. Admin. Campbell Soups, Franco Araerican Paau Products, V-8 Juice. For: Sales Rep ­Selling & Merchandising products in retAll supermarkets. Locations: Midwest area. Citizership not required. 
Equitable Life ARaurance Soeie!l, * B in AL and BA for Insurance Sa lea A~ent in Chicago office. Citizenship required. 
General Foods Corp. Pet Fro(Ja Div * B in ChE, 1£, loEIO. B in Acct or Fin. HBA with Acct or Fin bkgrd or conctrn. For: Plant EnRr, Proceas Dev, Coat Analyst. Location: KankAkee, It.. 
Kellogg Company * B in Acct. MBA wlth Acct bkgrd or conctrn. Ready-to­eat cereals. For: Domestic Acct. Duties-General Ledger. Reconciliation, Consolidation. Location: Battle Creek, 
HI. Citizenship required. 
ITI' Telecc.aunicationa Cancelled. 

IBM World Trade Corp • MBA Foreign Natlonala yho want to return to their home countries. For: Finance, Sales-Hirketing. 
Jotm.on & Johnaon. '&lby Products Dtv B in AL or BA.. For: Retail Sales Rep. Locations: lfationwide. Citizeuhip required. 
Prudential Insurance Co * B in AL aDd BA. Por: Sales Rep. Locations: Indian. and Illlnoh, Cith:enahip not requf red, 
Winters National Bank b Trust Co B in Econ, English, Hath. All BM. MBA. For: '&Ink MID4gement •ad Opt~ratioas Hlaagetn~nt Trainees; Credit 
•ad Research Analyst•. Location: O.yton, OH. Ct.ti­zeuhip not required. 
The Bodns CotiiM!DJ * BM in U/H!, C! (Struc), EE/Enp,t Sci, CompSci, For: A..oc. Kngr. Location: Seatlle. WA. Perm, Res. Via• required. 
Anaconct. Co. Wire & Cable Dfv * B in Acct. B in IC, EE, ChE, l£10. tor: Gen. Acct., Procus lngr~Project !ngr; Indust-rfal F.ngr; Production Control & Production rupet·~ l~<.or. Locations: H.idwest. Citizenship requireci. 
Carrier Corporation * B in Acct. Air Condltioniog 11nd Rtofngention. For: Pinaocial Management Lev~lo>pm,.nt PrnJ;ram. Loeation: Syracuse, NY. Cltize'lRhtt ro"!.:uind. 
A. H. Cattle & Colapany * All BBA for Op11ntlon~ Karo..»~er. M Jr" ~:-t. : r;r Hll!tals Sales: B in Hath ol" Cor.~p Sci for U:tb p··t:·':f'sfo Lng. Metal S•rvice Center. Locatfr'l. !-rFt;i'l~n Park, IL. CitizeMhip requfred. 
Kelny-Hayu. Subsidiary of ~-~''!..hi;·'" _C_!t·.:p * 
B in Bus. Ad or Engr f.;.c T•l"oG ... .:~ lor ~.!. \i I 3hA for Direct Industrial Sale•; BH in /£ (\,r rr.•doJct Engr; ft S.n Met for Met Z.ngr on staft ~ ..'.'(.). Lo·.at1ons: l11, OH, IA. Clthenship required. 
Toledo Edison Company * B in EE, ?£, ~NO. For As't EriF· L:H'"6U.'ln: Toledo ~rea, Perm. Rea. Visa reqtd.n:.i. 
NEW EMPI.DYERS SCHEDL'LE.f' SI~t;E ?t'3tTf'~TlCN GF SPRING li\NUAL, 
Friday, March 10, 1978 the observer 11 
Wholesale food prices rise 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Whole­sale food prices soared in February by the biggest margin in three years and the Labor Department 
said  there  is  no  evidence  that  
March  will  bring  any  relief  to  
consumers.  

The higher prices should start showing up soon at the retail level ­the supermarket -particularly in the meat section, Labor Depart­ment analysts said yesterday. 
The department said the prices that manufacturers c~arge super­markets and other retailers for consumer food rose 2.9 percent in February, the largest increase since a 4.1 percent gain in Novem­ber, 1974. 
The higher wholesale food prices caused the wholesale prices for all finished goods to jump by 1.1 percent, also the largest gain since November, 1974. If food is removed, the overall increase for February is 0.4 percent. 
The 1.1 percent pverall hike in finished goods is a 13.2 percent rate of inflation if figured on an annual basis. 
The sharp jump resulted in Agriculture Department officials saying they were reassessing their prediction that retail food prices will rise only four to six percent over the entire year. 
Much of the increase in whole­sale food prices was attributed to short supplies caused by delivery trouble during severe winter weather. But the department said there was no evidence that the prices will abate this month. 
Prices turned up sharply for pork, eggs and dairy products after declining the previous month, the department said. Beef and veal prices rose much more than in January. 
Beef prices have been rising for several months, the Agriculture Department siad. One factor in this rise is that cattlemen three years ago started cutting back on the size of their herds because a surplus of cattle had sharply lowered the price they received for their cattle. 
Prices of roasted coffee -declined in February, and price increases were not as big for fruit, vegetables and poultry. 
Grocery stores already had begun raising their prices on many foods t>e<\ause of higher prices at earlier sta~s of production. In January, the cost of food and beverages at the supermarket level rose 1.2 percent, contributing to a 
0.3 percent increase in all con­sumer prices. 
Department economists said further increases in final food prices were likely because of the 
2.9 percent rise in February in finished food -or wholesale prod­ucts, a 0.9 percent rise at the. intermediate stage of production and a 4. 7 percent increase at the farm level and other early stages. 
The report was described as discouraging by G. William Miller, who testified at a congressional hearing for the first time as Federal Reserve chairman. 
"One of the great disappoint­ments of the past year has been the lack of progress in reducing the pace of inflation," Miller told the House Banking Committee. 
He said the administration and Congress should explore new ways to restrain wage and price increases. 
The Labor Department report said wholesale iron and steel prices rose 2.5 percent, indicatin~ price increases might be expected for such items as autos and refrigera­tors. The total increase in goods halfway through production was 
0.9 percent. 
On a brighter note, the depart­ment said producer;;' prices deClined in February for jewelry, gasoline and home heating oil after increases in January. 
Price increases were smaller in February for autos, furniture and mobile homes. 
The entire index for finished goods prices, the stage before they reach the consumer, was 188.3 That meant they were 88.3 percent higher than in the 1967 base period. 
The department is emphasizing this index, instead of the old Wholesale Price Index on grounds that it resembles consumer .prices more closely. The old Wholesale Price Index, covering all stages of production, rose one percent in February, the largest increase since a one percent increase in April. 
Art Gallery exhibit 
The O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery will present for one day only a unique selection of Old Master, Modem Master, and contemporary prints. The exhibit, sponsored by the Lakeside Studio of Lakeside, Mich., will take place Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Senior Comp Show 
The second Senior Comprehen­B.F.A. candidates and exhibits the sive Show opens today at Saint independent creative research the Mary' sCollege. student has conducted toward the 
On display from then until march· end of her college career. 15 will be photo silkscreen by Jill The next Comprehensive Show Kane and Kate Cinnamond _in the will be opened after the students Little Theatre Gallery and photo­return from the Spring break. graphy and Camille E. Fitz's Gallery hours are Tuesday­paintings will be exhibited in the Friday, 9-11 a.m. and 12:30-3 p.m. Moreau Gallery. Saturday and Sunday hours are 
The Senior Comprehensive Show 12:30-4 p.m. is a requirement for both B.A. and 
-

l1le bird you see here is known as a Puffin. A smaD. thoughtful resident of Iceland. One of the 
first things young Puffins Butthere"s learn to do is fty Icelandic. more to Beginring Aprill 1978. lcelan<ic than just kdudc "iD fty any youth low fares. (Puffin <II" person) between You1 get a great 12-23 years old roundtrip !innerand ex~-el­from New York to Luxem­lent servK:e on 
bourg foc just $400. $4~ your trip. And from Chk:ago. Return kelandic wiD set tickets are good foc you down right in a fuD year. Fares the mid!le of 
subte<-1 to Eumpe. '~~<-here change. you11 be just hours away by train from Eumpe"s most famous landmarks. So take a travel tip frnm keland"s favorite bird. Learn to Ov kelandic. See your travel a~l. Or write Dept. # CJS2. Icelandic Airlines. P. 0. 
l:lox 105. West Hempstead. SY ll552. CaD 8()(J.5:l!"~l212 for toU·fr~'t· nwnlx•r in your ar..a. 
$275 

roundtrip J.l-45 day APEX fare from ~-Y. * 
$400 

roundtrip youth fare. Good to age 23. 
IcelandictoEurope. 
"'$295 fmm Cbit·~·· Tit:kt"ts must be rt>st"J"\."t-d -15 days pncw to dt-parturt" and paKJ r.... "'ithin 8 cb)"S uf rt"St.'fV3htJIL .-'de:~ Sl:lt•ik"h \t."3)" ftlf tr.n:d un 'A"t"t"kt'flds_ 
QUESTIONING YOUR FUTURE? 
HARRIS IS THE ANSWER 
The RF Communications Division of Harris will be holding campus interviews on: 
Harris Corp. interviewing at P.B. March 16  
We  now have career opportunities for college graduates the following disciplines. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING R&D Design Field Service Quality control Marketing (Technical Sa in les)  
INDUSlRIAL ENGINEERING Facilities Engineers Manufacturing Engineer s  
If  interested  in  discussing  both  a  challenging  opportunity  and  

potential for advancement ln your field, contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. If unable to interview, please forward your resume to: Richard Schick, Manager, College Relations, Harris Corporation, RF Communications Division, 1680 University Avenue, Rochester, New York 14610 
~~~~~ 
INFORMATION HANDLING
m 

An Equal Opportunity Employer-Male anti Female 


12 the obse,... 


SooJc.on human clone causes controversy 
[AP] • David 1\.1. Rorvik, whose upcoming book '.!.lieges the first creation of human11ife by cloning, emerged yesterday as a man of contradiction. --The serious, intelligent author involved with far-out scientific ideas. --The nonfiction writer working on a pornographic novel called "The Clone." --The top student in trouble for writing sex-flavored editorials for the college newspaper. Rorvik's book, "In His Image: The Cloning of a Man,'' will be published, as nonfiction, by the J .B. Lippincott Co. on March 31, two months ahead of schedule. 
Controversy over the book began after Lippincott ran promotional advertisement in a trade publica­tion. Several scientists said that cloning -the process of duplicating living things from an individual cell -was virtually impossible for a human being today. 
Rorvil himself has been unavail­able for comment. A statement attributed to Rorvik and issued by Lippincott on Wednesday said the the 14-month-old baby allegedly created by cloning, the offspring of a wealthy, unidentified man, was "alive, healthy and loved today." 
Information pieced together from interviews and from a artide yesterday in the great Falls Mont. Tribune showed Rorvik was born Nov. 1, 1943 in Circle, Mont., the youngest of five children of Frances Eleanor and Allen "Whey" Rorvik. His father, an auto mechanic, died in 1%1; his mother lives in Ronan, Mont. He is not married. 
Rorvik's articles have appeared in numerous magazines, including Esqalre, Reader's Dlgestand the New York Times Magazine. He is the author of five nonfiction books and a satirical novel. 
The Tribune said Rorvik was interviewed in 1970 when he was working as a free-lance writer. "Rorvik says he finds fiction writ­ing more difficult than nonfiction, but is determined to complete his novel, 'The Clone' and perhaps get it made into a movie," said the 1970 story, continuing: "'The Clone is a pornographic science fiction thriller based on current medical possibility, he said." 
Rorvik is a 1966 graduate of the University of Montana School of Journalism and received a master's degree from the Columbia Univer­sity School of Journalism in 1967. Bryna Taubman, one of Rorvik's classmates at Columbia, said he was "Very quiet and shy and kept to himself. He was a very goo4 journalist, a very good writer. always very accurate with his facts." Ma. Taubman, a writer flk WCBS radio in New York, said, " "He always had the information to back up his writing. I haven't read 
the book, butiknowDavid Rorvik 
and if he's written a book that's 
this easily disproved, he must have 
the information to back it up." 
A contrasting view came from Leon 
Jaroff, a senior editor at Time 
magazine with responsibility fdr 
the science and medicine section. 
Jaroff, who was Rorvik's boss when 
he worked at Time in 1968 and 
1%9, said: "David is intelligent. 
David is a good writer. David is af little strange." ·' Jaroff said that when Rorvik quit llme "he was becoming enamored of UFO's. I think he may have beleived in them." He said he followed Rorvik's career. "What I noticed by his writings . . . he started to get into really strange 
subjects .... " 
Jaroff criticized Rorvik for his articles in recent years on subjects such as purported cancer cures and psychic phenomena. He said he could not be objective about Rorvik because of the articles on cancer cures. "He preys on the hopes and fears of people who have cancer," 
Jaroff said. 
Another who worked with Rorvik at llme, Fred Golden, said he was "very smart," but added, "He's an explorer of the fringe areas of 
science." 
Rorvik was named outstanding student in journalism in his Mon­tana graduating class and, last fall, received one of two "Distinguished Young Alumnus" awards from the school. He graduated fourth in a 
class of 800. 
While in college, he was drama · freedom even, or especially, for the authored with Dr. O.S. Heyns of reviewer and later editor of the communists and total sexual auto­South Africa; a satirical novel, · campus paper, the Kalman. He nomy to suit the supporters of "The Sex Surrogates," and "Wo­stirred controversy with his sexu!\1-Orphan Annie, J. Edgar Hoover, men's tdedical Guide." ly oriented editorials and, said the Pope Paul, Tim Babcock then Tribune, some parents threatened governor of Montana ... then we 
AFROTC ball
to remove their children from are in fact subversive. And proud school because of the material. of it." ton1ght
The Tribune said Rorvik issued a Rorvik's first book, co-authored statement defending himself. "It's with Dr. Landrum Shettles, a The annual Air Force ROTC quite possible that some of the specialist in obstetrics and gyneco-Spring Ball will be held tonight at 9 ma~rial included in the Montana logy, was "Your Baby's Sex: Now p.m. in the ACC Monogram Room. Kalnuur~:has been sex-flavored. So You Can Choose." He also has The dance will be preceeded by a what?~' ·· written: "Brave New Baby: Pro-reception line at 8:40 p.m. All 
"If subverSion entails deviating mise· and Peril of the Biological AFROTC cadets should attend. too far from the flag-waving stand-Revolution," "As Man Becames Tickets may be purchased at tlJe ards of }lrovincial Montana in the Machine:Evolution of the Cyborg," door. Price of tickets is Sl person, defense of'free expression, political ·''Decompression Babies,'' co-and $2 per couple. 
..............................................................................., March 13 -March 17 This Week At The Career Development Center Saint Mary's "College 284-4431 INTERVIEWS Name Date Major Desired Travelers Insurance Mon. March 13 All Majors Firestone Tues. March 14 Business Comptroller of the Currency National Banks Wed. March 15 Pusiness/Accounting MONY (Mutual of New York) Thurs. March 16 All Majors General Telephone Company of Indiana Thurs. March 16 All Majors *Winters National Bank & Trust Co. Fri. March 31 All Majors *Sign-up starts Mon. March 13, 1978 Sign-up sheets for interviews during the first week of April will be posted on Tuesday, March 28th.  

WORKSHOPS:· No workshops are scheduled for this week. Workshops will resume upon return from Spring Break. Open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. Please sign up for all interviews at the CDC, Student Affairs Wing, 175 I,eMans Hall. Call the COC for the latest information on postponements and cancellations.  


OPEN: MON···THURS 9AM-11PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
K NORTH OF STAlE UNE -0 u.s. 31 


Challenging opportunity for a Professional to Sell to the Institutional Trade ....(Hospitals, schools, etc.) 
Economics Laboratory, Inc., a leader in the field of environmental sanitation and chemical cleaning with sales in excess of $358 million (A Fortune 500 Company), hass immediate openings for Individuals with aggressive, confident personalities. The postion Includes a six month formalized training program within an exisiting territory and requires above average mechanical apptltude. Salary plus commssion. Excellent benefits include a company car and expenses. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE PALCEMENT OFFICE. INTERVIEWS WIU BE HELD THE WEEK OF MARCH 13th. 
ECONOMICS lABORATORY INC. Pwsonnelllld lndustri1l Relations 37D W1ballll Osborn Bldg. St. Plul, Mlaneso~. 55102 
We are an equal opportunity employer 


Irish sport poor NCAAtourneyrecord 
-

Friday, March 10, 1978 
the observw 13 

[continued from page 16] jinx began the following Thursday won 20 games and were again seven percent fo the 1970 team's lead in the game's first 10 minutes.
NCAA pedorrnances in the 1970 evening. Carr was brilliant again, knocked out of the tournament in offense. The Irish dropped 14 of 20 But the Irish battled back and tournament. In the first round scoring 52 points on 22 or .35 field the second round. Carr scored 52 games in the 1971-72 campaign and actually led by two with about eight by
Notre Dame finally got a goal accuracy, but Adolp Rupp's asgainst TCU in the opening round failed to make a post-season tour-minutes left. In those final minutes Mid-American Conference Champ­Kentucky team downed the Irish and Irish fans had dreams of the nament, thl 01 ly season in the 11 Russell demonstrated his fine all-ion as the Irish prevailed 112-82 109-99. Dan Issei scored 44 points 6-3 All-American finally leading that Notrer .w .e has not bee to the around abilities as he continually
over Ohio University. Carr scored 
for the Wildcats, who were losing Notre Dame to the final four in NIT or NCAA: drove past Irish freshman Adrian an NCAA tournament record 61 by 10 points at the half in the game Houston. But a second round loss After a runnerup finish in the 1973 Dantley. The current Clevelandpoints on 25 of 44 field goal played at Ohio State. Carr scored to an inferior Drake team cost the NIT, the Irish returned to the Cavalier scored 36 points andshooting and 11 of 12 from the free 
45 in the third place loss to Iowa Irish the chance to return to the NCAA in 1974. For the first time in grabbed 18 rebounds, while Dant­throw line. Jackie Meehan dealt giving him 158 for the tournament, Southwest. years most basketball experts gave ley scored a career low two points
out a Notre Dame record 17 assists. a 52.7 per game average. 
The Bulldogs triumphed in '>Ver-Notre Dame a solid chance for the for Notre Dame.
But Notre Dame's second round 
The following year the Irish again time, 79-72, as Notre Dame shot a basketball national championship. For Notre Dame the Thursday horrible 34.1 percent from the Digger Phelps' third Notre Dame night jinx has been revisited the field. Carr scored 26, but Collis . team had three future professionals past four years. In 1975 Maryland, Jones and Sid Catlett shot 9 of 37 in the starting lineup. Gary Bro-in 1976 Michigan and in 1977 North between them. The Irish met kaw, John Shumate and Adrian Carolina all renewed the Thursday 
Houston in the third place game. Dantley all averaged over 17 points evening second round hoax. Digger Poo Welch scored 38 points to lead per game as the Irish raced to 24 Phelps must wonder what he has to the Cougers to their second NCAA wins in 26 outings in the regular do. Last year his team shot 67 tourney triumph over Notre Dame season. This was to be the year that percent from the floor compared 119-106. Carr scored 47 in his last the second round junx was to end. with a 44 percent mark for North game for Notre Dame and finsihed Unfortunatily for Notre Dame, Caroling, and outrebounded the · his NCAA playoff career with an Michigan's Campy Russell had Tar Heels 31-27. But the result was all-time national record 41.7 points something to say about the cont-the same, a disappointing season­
*Observer 
Sports 
per game average. inuance of Notre Dame's bad luck ending loss. Digger Phelps inherited a young on Thursday nights. Russell led his This year's first round opponent, team in 1971 that returned only Wolverines to an astounding ~8-8 Houston, is 25-7, with five of the
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~=--=--=--=-=-~-=::.=_::__=::_____:_.:..:_::=:=___:___=:_:_:___:____ _::___:___.::__---, losses coming by one point. They are the second hottest team in the country (behing UCLA) according to the five game survey conducted by Basketball Weekly. The Cou­gars have beaten Notre Dame twice in NCAA play and would love to complete the hattrick. Irish fans are hoping Notre Dame can continue its history of success in opening round games. They have won six opening round games in a row. Irish fans are also hoping history will not repeat itself if Notre Dame is victorious this Sunday. 
Hockey (cont'd) 
[contbaued from page 15]with a mad scramble coming down to the last game of the year." Denver is currently the top ranked team in the country after concluding the regular season as the WCHA Champion with an outstanding 27-5-0 record. Unfor­tunately fur Marshall Johnston's Pioneers they cannot participate in the NCAA Tournament in Provi­dence regardless of their pedor­mance in the WCHA playoffs as they are currently on NCAA proba­tion. If Denver does win the WCHA then the league runner-up would automatically represent the WCHA and a one game playoff
CHALLEDGIDG CArEEr OPPOrtunitiES 
would determine the other WCHA representative. The Irish and Pioneers met four times during the season, twice
WitH tHE IRDUStfV'S LEADEr 
during the fourth week of the season in Denver and then again for a weekend series in January at the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter in South Bend. Denver won
~nbtu~tr-;8u~cb,1Jnc. 
three of the four contests sweeping the lristl at the Denver University Engineering Students! If you are aggressive and looking for a 
Ice Arena, 8-4,8-2, and then split­ting a close series at South Bend,
career-oriented position, consider putting yourself OUT IN FRONT 
3-5, 5-3. It was in that weekend's
with Anheuser-Busch, the Industry's Leader. We will be on campus 
action that Notre Dame uealt the
looking for individuals with Engineering degrees to join our 
Pioneers their fourth loss of the
Engineering and Operations Departments on 
year in a defensive struggle charac­terized by tight checking. 
Last weekend Denver polished off Colorado College, 9-2,7-5, with Ernie Glanville, the WCHA's lead­
CENTRAL ENGINEERING: B.S.M.E. -M.E.'s will gain e~perience in such diverse fields as materi~l 
11uaday Man:h 16, 1978' 
ing netminder returning to action handling, equipment layout, P.ipi~g syste~ develop.ment, ~t~a'!l genera~ton, 
for the first time since February 4th compressed air systems, venttlat10n, heatmg and aJr-cond1t10mng and htgh-speed when he pulled a hamstring muscle bottle and can packaging. 
against Michigan Tech. Glanville B.S.E.E.-E.E.'s can expect to be working in such areas as electrical ~achine. 
lead all goaltenders in the goals­design and· application, power distribution, sub-station layout as well as mdustr1al 
against category with a 2.57 aver­and commercial lighting, electrical control circuits and systems control. 
age & saves/shot percentage with a .915 mark. 
PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT: Our Operations Department is offer!ng_opportuni_ties in our ~rod~c.tion 
"We certainly have our wort cutManagement Training Program for mdtvtduals wtth leadership abthty and out for us again this weekend,"Engineering degrees. This 12-month course i~ designed to cove~ all phase~ of states Smith. "We'll have to workoperation and administration and prepare tramees for a career m Production hard to contain Denfer's forwardsManagement. 
and must more offense than we have b~n over the last few weekends. Ifwe can do a good job backchecting and continue to get strong pedormances for goaliesFOR FUR'i'HER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP, CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT 01-'FICE. 
John Peterson and Len Moher (who finished seventh and 11 in the
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. 
WCHA) we can give Denver a 721 Pestalozzi 
battle in the total goal series. St. Louis, Missouri 63118 
The playoff games will be carried locally on WNDU-AM beginning at
An Equm Opportunity Emplnyer M,IF 
9:45P.M. EST. Ted Robinson and Chip Scanlon will broadcast the 
1 play by play. 
J 

~-------~--------------­
''BACK WHEN I WAS IN SCHOOL MY 
BASEBALL COACH TOLD ME THAT SdMEDAY 
THERE'D BE ALESS FILLING BEER. HE 
ALSO TOLD ME TO TRYOUT FOR GLEE CWB!' 
Marv Throneberry Baseball legend 
@1978 M1ller Brewmg Co., M1lwaul<ee. W1s. 

_______________,__,. 
'Friday, March 10, 1978 
the ob•eryar 15 
Cougers to test Notre Dame 
[continued from page 16] from the poln.t while Duck Williams They have ten very good players; much bigger than we are and that's get underway at 4:10 p.m. South 
average of 23 turnovers per game. attempts to sink his long jumper that's how deep they are. We are a tremendous advantage for Bend time. The game will be "We're going to have to control the from the wing. Branning, averag­just going to try to play our game them." 
televised locally over WNDU,flow of the game and cut out the ing 11.1 points per game, once and control the tempo. They are Sunday's game is scheduled to Channe116. 
turnovers to beat them." again paced the club in assists this 
Barring an unforseen occurance, season with 103. Williams, whose the Irish will probably go with the 13.4 scoring average dropped a bit same five players who have started from last year's 18.1 clip, can still 
Pioneers await Irish leers 

the last six games. The season's sink the long shot as his perfor­
high-point man, senior Dave Bat­mances against UCLA and Mar­Notre Dame's Irish icers head alignment wasn't settle until Sun­WCHA playoffs for our seventh ton (14.5 points per game) will start quette attest. The Irish bench into the first round of the WCHA day afternoon when the Irish consecutive season,'' expressesat one forward spot with freshman should see plenty of court time as it playoffs for the seventh consecu­wrapped up their schedule against Smith. "After the rocky start we Kelly Tripucka, currently shooting has all season with Bill Laimbeer, tive year against the Denver Pione­the Wisconsin Badgers. By virtue had at the beginning of the season 
an impressive 61 percent from the Tracy Jackson, Bill Hanzlik and ers this Friday and Saturday night of Notre Dame's two losses to the 
I'm proud of the players and the field, at the other base line Orlando Woolridge fully prepared in Denver. Faceofftime is schedul­Badgers the Irish will play Denver, way they never gave up. H we had position. Bruce Flowers will to spell the starters. ed for 8:00 p.m. MST for the two Wisconsin meets Minnesota­won one additional game along the handle the center chores for the "Notre Dame is a good team," game, total goal series. Duluth, Michigan Tech hosts North way we could have finished in fifthe Irish. commented Houston Coach Guy The WCHA's regular season Dakota and Minnesota battles place. The balance of the league
In the backcourt, sophomore Lewis. "We are very proud that we closed with a furious scramble for Colorado College. proved to be true again this season •Rich Branning will call the shots have this chance to play them. the last three playoff berths and the "We're very happy to be in the '[continued to page 13] 
Needed: rides to Florida (preferably Ft. Vote TWM for SMC STudent Body Pete Arndt will probably drink himself to lauderdale area) will pay expenses. Call officers. oblivion tonight. Call him at 1034 before 5465 or 4796. he disappears (into oblivion) to wish him Monty and MOnika? How cute! (Monty a last happy birthday on earth, and 
Need ride to Detroit for spring break. you're a lady-killer!) express your firm desire that he never NOTICES leaving March 17. Also need ride back to reappear. Call now he fades early!
LOST AND FOUND 
NO on March 27. Call Katie 6751. Lisa Campagna -This one really is from Organizational meeting -Washington • me, and yes, I really do love you. Signed, Everybody has the right to be ugly, but
Found: one Ford Key on Kowasaki 
Need ride to Albuquerque, New Mexico
D.C. Area Club. All Wash., Md., Va. Keychain in Huddle. Joe 6795. An Obscene Phonecaller Pete Arndt abuses that privelege.
for break. Will share expenses and
students invited. Farley Hall basement, 
Monday, March 13, 7:00pm. driving. Call Debbie at 4-1-4898. Fighting Men of Morrissey, Good luck in Michael, I thought you were great. Don't
lost: 2 keys with No. 623 on them on a 
the finals Friday ni~ht to Metron, O.C. worry, you 'II get'em next year. (Do youPenny keychain Call Joe 6795. 
Typing-experience in theses and disser­Ride needed to North Jersey area for (sorry Murph) and J1mbo. The DT still need an Adrienne?)
spring break. Please call Bruce 3587.
tations-Selectic typewriter, reasonable. LOST: Black leather hockey skates with a 
232-5715. WOPATULAsectlon 11-i: Grace Saturday Dillon-Holy Cross(smc) Happy Hour,
piece of yellow tape inside each skate. 
Two rides needed to Long Island or Night. Be there!!! today 3-6 Nickles -Pabst -3 for a dollarLeft in South dining hall coat rack area. 
nearby vicinity for break. Call Jean 8085 andecker-.50 per bottle, 7&7s-.50
Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call Phone 3171. 
or John 3470. Will share in expenslves. Play Ping Pong at the ping pong parlor ­
287-5162. 
836 Portage $1.50 per person per hour. Jim Belknap: Thanks for March 1. WeFOUND: one general motors car key on Need ride to Long Island for spring break. We furnish everything but your oppon­started the month out with a bang, didn't2-3 girls wanted for off-campus house the sidewalk between McCandless park­
Call 4-1-4606. ent. Bring apartner and show your stuff. we? Afterglownext year. Further info. contact Jamie ing lot. Call the McCandless Hall desk at 
Mon-Fri 5:oopm -10:00pm phone 234­
8482. 
4473. 

Need ride for three to the "Big Apple" 1999. Women wanted: Must be over 50 and New York City for spring break. We can't grossly fat. Stretch maries preferred,Fast and accurate typing done, at home FOUND: One pocket calculator between 
/afford the train so call Tom., Doug or The cabbages, turnip tops little red Dorltos optional. Will provide exotic
(for busy students) Telephone 288-6064 Howard and Morrissey Call 6768 to 
or 28!}-3279. identify. John 3414. beets,a nd the whole barnyard bunch drugs and electronic massage appliances.wish Mary Pat a terriffic birthday. De Call Sean Coughlin anytime or leave a Two students need ride to Fort Myers, POea message at the Board of Health.
Saturday Rec is back again! Despite the LOST: Class ring in snowbank halfway 
Fla. or vicinity for spring break. Will
small turnout last week, the Notre Dame between Alumni and the guardhouse. 
share driving and expenses. Call Brian at Rocky, G. L. A good officer knows how to show aI St. Mary's Council for the Retarded Reward. Call Dave 1582. 
1153. Win or lose, No one could fill your girl a terrific time. Thank-you!!
wishes to remind all the logan Volun­
shoes!!! I loves you mucho. Mother O.K.
teers and interested students that we are LOST: Set of keys in small black pouch 
-

Wanted: Need ride to Boston area on
having Saturday Rec. this Saturday, lost March 1st from B2 parking lot to Eng
March 11, 1978. The place is Logan bldg, if found Call Ella 7466. March 17. Will share driving and Danny Romano, like you they're no To the girl with the oversized eye-drop­Center (one block south of the football . expenses. Call Tony at 1436. other,l loves you mucho. Your first per: I'll jump out of my tank if you don't mother go to my hall formal with me. Bart's
stadium) and the time is 9 am to 11:30 LOST: near the Library Bar, aset of keys 
Need ride to los Angeles over break. friend (fish A)
am. We hope to see you all there bright to Room 217. If found, call Patty 4287. 
Call Debbie 8485. Danny and Rocky, I couldn't be prouder!!
and early Saturday morning! Any 
questions feel free to call Art Koebel lOST: one expensive black glove near I love you both. Chrissy Pete Arndt To aswell guy on his birthday
Need ride to Wash DC for break. Marice Good luck
ps. Adolf Hitler
287-7509 or Jeanne Conboy 284-4392. North Dining Hall on Feb 21. Give my 1312.
hand a break and call1653. 
Dear "Mr. Personality," say Hi to your 36-24-36Dissertations, Manuscripts, etc...typed. 
Ride needed to Long Island or NYC area buddy for me, too. How about a place off-campus nextIBM selectric II. Linda's Letters. LOST: one pr Timberline boots, lost in 
Mike 8889. 
semester?

287-4971. ACC B-ball courts above ice rink Sat 
01 Mary Pat, Happy 21st birthday you'renight call Mike 1759. 
Sports Illustrated Court Club now accep­the greatest sister I have!!! Have agreat
Get to class or work on time. Call Bob's Dear Allen,
ting applications for full and part time day. love, Lisa Welcome to
wake-up service. 287-4971. Lost -a gold round monogram pin with N D for another weekend 
help. Pro. Social Director -salary. filled with love, romance and kinky sex.
the initials ABM. If found please
Typing done in home. Fast accurate call Angie at SMC 4644. Nursery attendant, Desk sales staff, Dorth, Mary Jo, Diane, Terry, Ann, MJ, Your fiancee teaching professionals -Hourly wages. Ver, Val, Keena, Maureen, Liz, Erin,
reasonable. Close to campus. Call 203 W. Edison 259-8585. and Anne, Do you guys really get down? Freshwomen cf Lyons, Themen of the
212-7866 anytime. FOUND: silver pocket watch in stepan lyons may be next, but the disco never Alumni alleys await you -this friday in
parking lot. Call 6889 to identify. 
Two need ride to Tampa/Clearwater area closes at Stanford -yes. the FEVER has the Bulla shed. Be there Aloha.
TYPING OONE for spring break. 4·5706. spread ·the disco kid and his associates.
REASONABLE RATES 
CALL8086 3rd floor Pangborn announces secession Wanted: 2 girls need ride to Denver Rocky Schmitt: Lots of Luck to the best from hall. Anyone interested in annex­
WANTED 

Accurate, fast typing Mrs. Donoho f:olorado Springs area for spring break. "Grandpa" in the ring!!! luv, L.L. ation call ldi Stavola Dada-8435. SMC Will share driving and expenses. Sue
232-Q746 hours 8 am to 6 pm. Need ride to Boston for 2 people Share take notice. 
3888. Frankie Candela, this is personal 12
driving and $$$. Call 5236. 
though I know my identity, I really douby Haircuts, Trims, Styles
Typing reasonable rates. Call 8051. -Cheap. SMC 
Ride needed to NY state area for spring you do. So to help you in this mystery, I'll 4530'BetsyNeed ride to Ft. Lauderdale or Pompano 
can in break. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. give you a little clue: Remember the klnp
Every student vote the May beach area for spring break. Will share 
Indiana Primary -If interested, register driving and expenses. SOS! Call Jack of Porn is watching over you. Anthony,
Need ride to Syracuse area for break.
before spring break by calling Mo at 6706. Good luck tonight, but I don't think 
4-1-4001. Gall 7965. Mom, The time has come for me to make you 'II need it. my public apology to you for my blatant An Admirer
Need ride to Texas: Dallas, Houston, etc. 
Need ride to after Emil.
Ride needed to NY state area for spring Share expand driving. 2747. DC area Bob act of misconduct. Forgive me!! Love,
8643. Bill
break. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. Bill Fuller-You sex God! Need 1 or 2 rides for spring break to 
Need ride to Chicago -west side. Fri Bro Lav: Dear Mom: You're tha cutes! Luv yalTo all interested students: The mental downstate NYC(I-80 or 1-84) Coleen 7815. 
3-10. Call1608 or 1610. Thanks for the meeting us At The Cornerhealth Association of St. Joe County 
Grocery to talk"genes". ,Lenten confessions heard Monday thruneeds your support. One to one 2people need ride to 0. C. area for break. 
volunteers are needed to aid in the Will help with expenses. Can leave Need a ride to Colorado during spring Jackie, Lisa, Joanie & Mary Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7
break. Call Max 3510.
socialization of emotionally restored men Thurs afternoon. Call 8525 or 2172 after pm. Anyone wishing to make appoint­
Don't forget: Sunday March 12 at B:oo ment for confession may phone Campusand women. Call Mary Anne Mulcahy 11:oopm. 
pm "Girls on the Beach" starring the Ministry at 6536 or 3820.
288-4504 or Joe Hauflaire at the MHA Need ride to Northern New Jersey -New Beach Boys In Carroll Hall • SMC Help
234-1049. Need ride to Houston for Spring break ­
York City area for break. Can leave Celebrate Spring Break. Snuggley-Call Cathy 4-1-4559. 
Logan Volunteers and Interested Stud­Wednesday. Call Ed. 1174. How about flying to Atlanta and have a 
Pete,

ents: The St. Patrick's Day Dance is the Going to Boston? Need ride will pay week of fried chicken, sex, picnics, 
Friday, March 10th, 7:30pm to 10:00 pm. expenses. Call Ann 6751. FOR SALE Some trojans protect from more than just sex, nights on the town, sex, and YES cold winter nights. Happy 21st.
in the basement of Keenan Hall. Come !-shirts from the Omnl?
FOR SALE NO FIGHT SONG AUTO 'pic and Nancy 
The Upper Class Twitdressed for the occasion and help the 3 need ride to DC for break. Call Dave 

HORN. Contact Kathy 2114-43115 for Info.
adults and children from Logan dance the 8107. p.s. Only 291 Days to E-Day
Contrary to popular belief, there arenight away with the tunes from a live 
75 silver camaro. terrific buy. Cala Nela
band. Any questions or commeents call some women living In Flanner Tower Need ride to Milwaukee • Leave Fri or Sat
Need ride to northern NJ for spring 
272-0342.

Art Koebel 287-7509 or Jeanne Conboy break. Call Kathy 1264. 3110 or 3/11. Call Kate 1264 
Thank • you all for making my 19th
284-4391. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC, 
birthday so special. The flowers cakes, Vote Darragh Carden, and Pope. It's partTwo rambling guys need ride to Fort TURES NOW AVAILABLE. Call 8982. cards and personals and visits [I know
Morrissey Loan Lauderdale for break. Brian 1387 or of the plan.
four flights of stairs are really rough] all
Student Loans $20 to $150. Due in 30 
11 Hugh 1380. Vivatar Zoom lens. 85-205 mm. Miolta meant a lot to me. Love, Killer
days. 12 monthly interest. M-F 
mount. $130. Russ 288-2069. 
Samba11:15-12:15. Lafortune Basement. Need ride to New York March 17. Will 

TWMTWMTOUHY TWMTWMTWM What was that running down yourshare driving and$$$. Please call Tom at 
Why pay more? Flanner Records has all 
WIXTEDTWMTWMTWMTWMTWM 
leg at Senior Bar Wednesday night?
Attention May Grads 3828. 
$7.981ist lPs for only $5.29. All $6.981ist MULLANEY TWMTWM VOTE TWMMarch 13 is the last day to apply for a Lps for only $4.59. (plus tax) Flanner MARCH /213.
Morrissey loan. March 14 is the last day Need ride to Toledo on March 17. Will 
Records 322 Flanner Phone 2741.
to pick up loans, no exceptions. pay Kim 7856. 
Dear Peter A. Happy 21st birthday PERSONALS signed-every single girl you ever talked 
Break
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Ride wanted to Ft. Lauderdale for spring to in your whole life.
Inc. professional typing service IBM break for 1 person. Tom 232-4499. 
YOUR VOTE COUNTS , Vote Damgh
Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page Carden and Pope on March 13. Girls, Girls, girls. because. ~t's hisminimum. Call 232-0898 "When you Need ride to and from Boston/Providence 
minus
birthday, Pete Arndt will be g1vmg free
want the Best". for break. Will pay $$$. Call Maryanne Need ride to Cleveland this weekend, call physical examinations. ~top In at 1334-4762. 
Kathy 1264. Alumni to set up an appomtment now!
Need ride to Newark, New Jersey area for break. Can leave next Wednesday March Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Will 
7!

T is for Touhy -SBP W Is for Wixted -To all females -I'm a hell of a nice guy.
15. Will share driving and expense. Call share driving and expenses. Call Rich SBVP student affairs M is for Mullaney Peter Angus Arndt
Ed 1174. 8279 after 11 :30 pm. 
SBVP Academic affairs. 

16 the obSfiVtr 
NCAA basketball tourney opens 
Irish face Houston 
by Frank I.aGrotta Houston has a very good team. 
Sports Writer Boasting a 25-7 regular season 
record (with five of their seven 
It won't be a cakewalk for any of losses by only one point) the the'32 teams in this year's NCAA Cougars carry an eight-game win­basketball tournament. To leave ning streak into Mabee Center, a the St. Louis Checkerdome on streak which saw them defeat a March with the coveted national strong Texas club and an even prize, a team will need one of those stronger Arkansas team twice en "supreme efforts" coaches refer route to winning the Southwest to. "We'lllhave to concentrate and Conference Tournament. really work hard." Yes, all the "Houston is a very good team," adjectives apply. Irish -coach Digger Phelps com-
Of course, the winners are also mented. "They've got a lot of gonna need a little bit of luck. speed and they're very physical on 
They'll have to beat the odds, as the boards. We have our work cut well as hotel blues and, at times, out for us." some not-so-friendly crowds, not to The high-point man for Houston mention five of the best college is Cecile Rose. The 6-5 senior is basketball teams in the nation. averaging 17.7 points and 4.8 
They'll need a few breaks, one or assists per game from his forward two close calls will have to go in position. He will be joined on the their favor and a couple of tough frontline by forward Charles shots will have to fall. Oh, to be Thompson and pivotman Mike sure, good fortune will have to grin Schultz. The 6-7 Thompson chal­heartily on the eventual winners. lenged Rose for the Cougar scoring They might even need a small title, averaging 17.3 points per miracle. contest while pulling down 8.4 
Bordering the basketball court at rebounds per game. He trailed Oral Roberts University in Tulsa, only Schultz in that category at the Oklahoma are the words, "Expect 6-9 center led the Southwes Confe­a miracle!" Something to think renee in rebounding statistics with about as Notre Dame takes the 10.2 per contest. floor on Sunday afternoon to face In the backcourt for the Cougars the Houston Cougars in round one are sophomore Ken Williams and of the NCAA Midwest Regional junior Ken Ciolli. the 6-1 Williams playoffs. is averaging 10.3 points per game 
Now don't misunderstand; It will while Ciolli dishes out five assists take no miracle for the Irish to from his point guard spot. advance to round two of the ''Thye like to employ the man-to­tourney. All it will take is 40 man press as much as they can," The Irish will need rebounding strength from Kelly Tripucka minutes of solid basketball against says Phelps of Houston, a club that and Bruce Flowers, pictured above with Len Davis and Albert a solid basketball team. forced their opponents into an King of Maryland, if they are to advance in the NCAA tourney. 
And make no mistake about it; [continued to page 15] [photo by Doug Christian] 
Paul Stevenson f==========================================:=:=:=:=:=====:=:===:=========:===========:===:=:=:==:============================================:=:=:===:::;:;:;:;:;:;::=====::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;;::::;:;:;::==================================================================:=:===;=;=:===:::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 


November seems so long ago when all of the nation's basketball teams tipped off their season. Finally, the NCAA has narrowed all the college cage squads to the "32 best" in the country. 
The season has been a long one for everyone involved and these 32 teams will have to give it one more shot. They'll all have to play their best for five straight games if they expect to emerge on top. Winning that clash on March 27 in St. Louis has been a goal of many of the country's teams, but only these 32 have a chance to claim the nation's top honors. 
So, with 16 games scheduled to be played tomorrow and Sunday, here are the Irish Eye's picks for this NCAA tournament weekend. Notre Dame vs. Houston: The Irish have faired well in the opening round of the NCAA's, haveing won in their last six attempts. However, the Notre Dame cagers have lost to Houston twice in the NCAA tournament. On Sunday, the key will be ifthe Irish can prevent turning the ball over against the Cougar's pressure defense. In addition, Notre Dame will have to slow down Houston's run and gun game and try to control the tempo. This contest will definitely be a test for the Irish, but hopefully Notre Dame's depth will carry them through the opening round. So, give the game to Notre Dame by three points. Mlssourrl vs. Utah: the Tigers are the only team in the tournament with a sub .500 record, having a 14-15 ledger. However, having won the Big Eight tournament, they are definitely a "hot" team. But, Utah will be too much for them to handle in this clash as the Tigers will fall by nine points. Crelgbton vs DePaul: Are the Blue Demons for real? Well, the people in chicago seem to think so. Chicago Trfb1111e sports columnist Rick Tally seems to believe the Demons can go all the way to the finals. DePaul boasts the best record of anyone in the tournament and emotion seems to have carried them through the season. I really don't think they're as good as some feel, but they've built up a lot of confidence and momentum throughout the year. Ray Meyer seems to think this is his best team ever, and he ought to know. Thus, give this matchup to the Demons by ten points. LoulsvWe vs. St. John's: St. John's had to win their tourney to make the playoffs and although they amay have some talent, including ex-Irish recruit Bernard Rencher, Darrell Griffith and the rest of the Louisville squad should be too much to handle. So, with the Doctor of Dunk leading the way, give this encounter to Louisville by seven. UCLA vs. Kansas: This West division is by far the toughest one in the tournament. Thank goodness for the Irish that the Jayhawks were downed in their conference tournament. Because, if the Irish advance to the regional semi-finals, they would have had to play on Kansas' home court. But, the Bruins have the luck of playing this 24-4 Kansas ballclub. UCLA is currently ranked second in the country, having suffered only two defeats, both to Notre Dame. This game will rank among the best in the opening round and should be a battle from beginning to end. The contest will be close, but give this one to the Bruins by two. Weber State vs. Arkansas: The Razorbacks made quite a name for themselves this season, mating it to the number-one ranking for one week. That marked the first time ever a Southwest Conference team has ever made the top spot. But, their first season is behind them and the second one ready to start. Weber State should not stand in the way of Arkansas' attempt for win number 29. Thus, the Razorbacks 
will capture this game by ten. San Francisco vs. North Carolina: When the Tarheels eliminated the Irish last season, they kept the Thursday night jinx alive. At least they won't have the opportunity to repeat that performance. The Dons lost five games early in the season and since Bill Cartwright returned to the lineup, they have yet to lose a game. Even without James Hardy, San Francisco will make it a game. But, the experience of a tougher schedule may prove beneficial to North Carolina. So, give this confrontation to the Tarheels by four. New Mexico vs Cal State Fullerton: New Mexico and their 24-3 ledger has drawn a lot of national recognition. Meanwhile, who ever heard of Cal State Fullerton. I'll probably be proven wrong, but New Mexico should breeze into the second round by 15. Duke vs. Rhode Island: The Blue Devils are probably the best team in the East Regional, with the possible exception of Indiana. URI will be a respectable test, but Duke should capture this one easily by 13. 
Penn vs. St. Bonaventure: Bonnie Head Coach Jim Satalin is glad to be in the tournament, but very unhappy that they have to face Penn in the Palestra, their home court. St. Bonaventure gave the Irish a scare earlier this season as Notre Dame won by one point. The Bonnies will be able to capture this one but it should be a tough battle to the end. Thus, give this matchup to St. Bonaventure by three. 
Furman vslndlana: Southern Conference winner Furman showed bow well they can play in the big game against both North Carolina and North Carolina State earlier this year. However, Big Ten runnerup Indiana has won their last ten games, enabling them to earn a position in the tourney. The game will be close, but when the final buzzer sounds, the Hoosiers should be on top by five.-
Villanova vs LaSalle: The Explorers and the Wildcats were both opponents of the Irish this season. Villanova .fell to Notre. Dame ~n the ACC by one point while LaSalle lost to the Irish by five pomts. thts contest will be hard-fought, but look for the Wildcats to end up on top 
by four. Michigan State vs Providence: The Spartans won the Big Ten title for the first time in almost 20 years. Providence will have their hands full in this opener and Coach Dave Gavitt is not too thrilled about haveing such a tough game in the opening round. This contest will be another 
highlight of the first 16 tournament games. Look for tht: Spartans to win by six. Western Kentucky vs. Syracuse: The Orange has not played as well as 
expected in the preseason. However, Western Kentucky should not stand in the way of a scrappy Syracuse squad that should make it to round number two. Thus, give this battle to the Orange by nine. 
Miami of Ohlo vs. Marquette: How did Miami of Ohio get so lucky as 
to play the defending National Champs? Well, Hank Raymonds is so 
won-ied about his "second" game with Kentucky, he's not even 
thinking about this one. The Redskins don't have the club to compete 
with the Warriors, but if Marquette is looking too far ahead, the game 
will be fairly close. However, give the game to the Warriors by seven. 
Kentucky vs. Florida State: Florida State had to go and lose their final game and be sent to the Mideast Regional to face this currently number-one ranked squad. Both teams are very talented, unfortunately only one can continue in the tourney. So, give this clash to the Wildcats by five points. 
Tourneyhistory 
by Tim Bourret Sports Writer 

Of the 245 teams in the top 
division .of the NCAA only Ken­
tucky and UCLA have played in 
more NCAA tournaments than 
Notre Dame. Despite having 14 
previous chances, the Irish have 
never reached the prestigious final 
four and have only three appear­
ances in regional championships. 
The Irish made their first appear­
ance in the NCAA tournament in 
1953 under John Jordan. Dick 
Rosenthal and Jack Stephens led 
the Irish to victories over Eastern 
Kentucky and Pennsylvania in the 
first two rounds, setting up a 
confrontation with Indiana for the 
Midwest Regional championship. 
Notre Dame had already defeated 
the Hoosiers at Notre Dame, 71-70, 
on a Jack Stephens driving layup 
with six seconds remaining. But in 
the post season battle in the 
Chicago Stadium, Don Schlundt's 41 points, 30 of which were registered before halftime, enabled the Hoosiers to fain revenge, 79-66. It must have been especially grat­ifying for Indiana's all-time leading scorer, as he was a star at South , Bend's Clay High School a few years earlier. Schlundt continued his fine play in the national finals leading the Hoosiers to the Nat­ional Championship in Kansas 
City. 
The following season the tables 
were turned. This time Indiana 
defeated the Irish in the regular 
season meeting at Bloomington. 
But in the NCAA tournament Notre 
Dame pulled off the upset of the 
year. In the semifinals of the 
Midwest Regional held at Iowa City 
the Irish downed the defending 
National Champions, 65-64. Rich­
ard Rosenthal, Notre Dame's 6-4 
center, led the Irish with 25 points 
and held the 6-10 Schlundt to one 
field goal and 11 points. Stephens 
again scored some clutch baskets 
and held Bob Leonard, Indiana's 
All-American guard and present 
coach of the Indiana Pacers, to 11 
points. The victory allowed the 
Irish to advance to the regional 
final, where Notre Dame lost by 
eight to Penn State. 
In 1957 and 1958 the Irish again 
qualified for post-season play. In 
1957 Notre Dame lost in the second 
round to Michigan State, as Johnny 
Green, a long time NBA player 
grabbed 27 rebounds in the Spart­
ans' 85-83 victory. In 1958, even­
tual National Champion Kentucky 
and "Rupp's Runts" drubbed 
Notre Dame, 89-56. 
Between 1960 and 1969 Notre 
Dame made four NCAA tslurna­
ment appearances and never got 
past the first round. In 1960 Ohio 
University belted the Irish 74-66 
while a Nate Thurmond led Bowl­
ing Breen team eliminated Notre 
Dame 77-72 in 1963. Two years 
later the Irish first met Houston in 
the NCAA classic. Notre Dame had 
beaten the Cougers by 30 points at 
Houston during the regular season, 
but lost in the NCAA tournament 
99-98 in overtime. Six Irish, includ­
ing professional baseball's Ron 
Reed, scored in double figures for 
Notre Dame, who grabbed 19 more 
rebounds and attempted 18 more 
shots but still lost. But a 34 percent 
shooting accuracy in the second 
half killed Notre Dame's chances. 
In 1969 a third Mid-American 
Conference team eliminated Notre 
Dame from national championship 
contention the initial •round. Notre 
Dame's 1969 team was led by Bob 
Arnzen, Bob Whitmore, Collis 
Jones and Austin Carr, four· of 
Notre Dame's top five all-time 
leading scorers. But, a first half 
injury to Carr and cold shooting by 
Arnzen and Whitmore helped 
Miami of Ohio to a 63-60 triumph at 
Carbondale, Illinios. 
Austin Carr began his legendary 
[continued to page 13] 
f' 






