
~---­
HPC to vote on revised constitution 
Marta Brace spoke last night on "Women's Health" in Stapleton Lounge as part of SMC's Women's Awareness lecture series. [photo by john Calcutt] 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .·.· ;.:-··::;~::;:-:-:-:-·-·.·.· ... ....·,. ··:;:;:;:;::.:.::·::::<:::::;:;:.::::·.. 
.. ·. ·····························r············r··················~········ .········/······· ······················~···•·•!·•······
·.·......· ;:; ..•·:·: II·•·····.··.. 
. ·.··· . 
an independent ..studentnewspaJier s~tvingnot~~•uame <!#4 .• st.matf•~···· }•· ·i< ii 
Vol. XU/No. 69 

Modern midwife ~riscusses health 
by EDen Buddy 
The second of a five-part series on Women's Awareness was pre­sented last night by Marta Brace, a South Bend midwife, who spoke to a small. informal gathering about ··women's Health." 
Opening the discussion by intro­ducing herself and explaining her job as a midwife Brace turned the discussion over to the group asking the audience to pose questions dealing with women's health. During the next hour the topics discussed ranged from what is a good age for a young woman to consider going to a gynecologist for a physical to questions concerning breast feeding, RH factor and abortion. 
Brace has a B.A. in Nursing, received her certification in mid­wifery from the University of Illinois and has recently completed studies for her Masters. Brace previously held an administrative position at the Indiana University Medical Center in obstetrics and was at one time the only woman on the staff of the Student Health Center at Purdue. 
Her present position as midwife in South Bend includes caring for women during pregnancy, deliver­ing the baby and caring for the baby and the mother after the birth. She also handles other aspects of women's health such as physicals, birth control and educa­tion of young women. 
The third segment of the Wo­men's Awareness series will be presented Feb. 22 with Walter Keller assistant professor of psy­cology at St. Mary's discussing the role of women and the changes it has one through in recent years. 
Today... 

is the last day fore/ass changes and filing the pass/ fail option. 



Mrs. Humphrey appointed to Senate 
FORT LAUDERUALE, Fla. [AP] Muriel Humphrey,, who says she wants to "help complete" some of her late husband Hubert's unfin­ished legislative business, was appointed yesterday to his vacant seat in the U.S. :Senate by Min­nesota Gov. Rudy Perpich. 
Mrs. Humphrey, who will be 66 next month, becomes the only woman in the Senate. She will serve at least until a special election is held next November to fill the remaining four years of her husband's term. 
Humphrey died of cancer at his lakeside horne in Waverly, Minn., on Jan. 13. He was 66. The couple had been married 41 years. 
Mrs. Humphrey declined to say whether she would run in the special election. "That's a long time away. I haye no idea," she told reporters. 
She said she had never discussed with her husband the possibility of serving out his term. "I think that Hubert never once said that he was going to do anythililg but go back to the Senate. 
"I had no guidance, at all from him in the decision," she said. "I hope that he is guiding me today, along with a good many other people, in this decision, because I felt it was a very, very difficult 
by Bob vlll'ettonl Senior StaH Reporter 

Beginning this week Hall Council members will vote to accept or reject a revised Notre Dame Stu­dent Government constitution. 
The proposed constitution is the work of a committee of three students appointed by the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) in No­vember. The committee members were Torn Byrne, student govern­ment press secretary, Tracy ¥e, HPC executive coordinator,/ and Bill McLean, former Ombudsman director. 
Byrne noted that the present constitution has been obsolete since October, when the Board of Trustees replaced the student Life Council (SLC) with the Campus Life Council (CLC) and abolished the University J-Board. "The consti­tution had to be overhai.,led any­way," Byrne added. ·"It was outdated, scanty, and contained 
'~ 
Wlii':C~ ~ 
Ulis Is "Be kind tto short people" week. Eat your loopholes." 

Byrne pointed out the five major changes the proposed constitution would make. "Probably the big­gest overall improvement is the wording of the document," Byrne. said, "it's more specific and less pompous." 
Another change is in the make­up of the student government's Board of Commissioners. Accord­ing to the present constitution, three of the seven positions on the Board have to be held by SLC representatives. These positions, in the proposed consitution would be filled by an elected HPC representative, the Judicial Co­ordinator, and the Student Union Director. 
A third change is an entirely revised secti.m on the Student Union. The proposed constitution would abolish the Student Union Board of Directors and replace it with a Student Union Steering Committee. The Steering Com­
mittee  would  consist  of  three  
elected  Student  Union  Commis­ 
sioners,  the  Director,  and  the  
Comptroller.  

The proposed consitution would form a Student Advisory Board to provide outside advice and assis­tance to the Student Union. The constitution would also revise the method of appointing a Director. No longer would there be a Special Appointment Board, but a nomina­tion by the Steering Committee approved by the Board of Commis­sioners. 
A fourth change would be in the formation of a Judicial Council, composed of the undergraduate Judicial Board Chairman from each hall. According to the proposal, a Judicial Coordinator will c:erve as Chairman of the Council, and "he or she shall promote efforts that will foster greater student under­standing of the University rules." 
Finally, Byrne noted that the proposal would ''increase the ac­countability of Student Govern ment." A public record would be 
[Continued on page 3] Thursday, january 26, 1978
the oburver 


News Briefs----~ 
t===::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::::::=::::== w0 rid 

o satellite radiation .found 
YELLOWKNIFE Northwest Territories -U.S. and Canadian planes sweeping the skies for radiation from a fallen ~oviet satellite widened their seach yesterday to the Lake Supenor area of the United States. but not fallout has been detected, officials of the two countries said. They stressed that air samples were being taken in that corner of the northern United States as a precautionary measure. The planes were specially equipped with gamma-rav detectors. "There is no indication of any radioactivity so far," U.~. State Department spokeswoman Jill Schuker told reporters m Washington. 
I============================ National 
Cancer study to begin 
WASHINGTON -The federal government will conduct a nationwide study of bladder cancer victims to see if saccharin. alone or with other factors. causes this kind of cancer in humans as it does in rats, it was announced yesterday. The National Cancer Institute and the Food and Drug Administration said their study will look at the cases of 3.000 bladder cancer patients to try to determine which factors contribute to the disease. The lifestyles of the patients will be contrasted with those of 6.000 persons without cancer to see what roles such things as drinking. cigarettes, occupational exposures to chemicals. ar d the artificial sweetners saccharin and cyclamate play in the di~ease. 
U.S. mayors discuss budget 


WASHINGTON-The U.S. Conference of Mayors says the economic philosophy that underlies President Jimmy Carter's $500.2 billion budget plan is incompatible with efforts to carve out a workable urban strategy. "You cannot develop a national urban policy while cutting back on the federal government's share of the Gross National Product. You have to spend more money," Mayor Lee Alexander of Syracuse said yesterday. Alexander, president of the conference. said the nation's big city mayors will try to help shape Carter's urban policy due in mid-March. But he said he was concerned about the president's expressed desire to hold down federal spending as a percentage !'If the nation's overall economy. 


BLIZZARD 

Blizzard warning today. Snow, heavy at times, with strong winds causing considerable blowing and drifting snow. High around 10. Cloudy. windy and very cold tonight and tomorrow with occasional periods of snow. Low tonight around zero. Highs tomorrow in the low teens. 
On Campus Today ___,. 
4pm presentation, army rotc scholarship awards, 236 rotc bldg. 
4:45pm ceremony, navy rotc battalion change of command, fr edmund joyce, guest speaker, ace, public invited. 
6:30pm meeting, smc observer reporters, smc observer office, basement regina south. 
7pm lecture, "transcendental meditation: overcoming stress and unfolding inner energy, ' sponsored by students international meditation -;ociety, library aud. 
8pm meeting, smc freshman class, regina basement. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland 
Asst. Night Editor: Sandy 
Colson 
layout Staff: Bart Corsdro, 
Chris Slatt, Chris Stewart 
Features layout: Rosemary 
Mills 
Sports layout: Paul Steven­
son 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, 
Mary Jo Cushmg, Lisa DiVal~ 
erio 
Night Controller: Mardi Nevin 
Day Editor: Marian Ulicny 
Copy Reader: Ann Gales 
ad layout: Greg Trzupek 
Photographer: John Calcutt 
The Observer 11 published Mon­dey through Frkley ex~pt during exem • end v~tlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notrw Derne end Selnt Me~s College. Subscriptions mey be purdleaed tor UO per y..r (S I 0 'per semester) frof'l The Observer, P.O. aox Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 46556. Second cle11 poat..e pe1411, Notre Deme, lndlene, 46556. 
The Obaerver 11 e member of the Auocleted Prell. All repro. ductlon rights .,. re1erved. 


Law school research program analyzes national issues 
by Kathy ConneUy Staff Reporter 

At the first meeting of the Center for Constitutional Studies on Dec. 11 and 12, board members were asked to determine and discuss the most pressing problems in need of investigative research involving in­dependent educational institutions. 
The Center, established within the Notre Dame Law School, pro­vides basic legal research on national issues affecting indepen­dent institutions of higher educa­tion. 
The first of three areas of study 
tentatively selected by the board 
involves a basic analysis of legal 
Black festival 

slated for Feb. 
by Clare Zimmerman 

The annual Black Cultural Arts Festival will take place from Feb. 3 to 9. Chairpersons of the festival are Valerie Hardy and Monique Spann. Because the festival wishes to touch on the variety of dimen­sions of the black experience, the invited speakers are from many different areas of expertise. 
Sonia Sanchez, a black poetess, will speak on Feb. 3. Representing the theater will be a group of high school students from Virginia, known as Talent in Action. They will perform on Feb. 4 in the Little Theater at St. Mary's. 
The political aspect of life will be represented by Roy Innis, head of 
C.O.R.E. Innis will be speaking in the Library Auditorium on Feb. 6. 
On Feb. 8, businessman John Sengstacke will speak. Sengstacke is editor of The Chicago Defender, a black newspaper in Chicago, owner of several other papers throughout the country. Giles Con will, Rev. Clarence Rivers and Rev. Edward Braxton will hold a theological discussion on Feb. 9. 
Tom Gatewood, a former Notre Dame footbal player, is the featur­ed speaker for Feb. 10. Gatewood i now the vice-president of the Mutual Black Network, a syndi­cated radio network. 
Receptions will follow the lec­tures. All students are welcome to come and meet the guests. 
The final activity of the week is a Disco Fashion Show which will be held Feb. 11 in the Monogram Room of the A.C.C. The show is being planned and choreographed by students, with student models. Tickets for the show may be purchased in the Black Studies Office. 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery will have an exhibition, "African Tribal Art." the week of the festival. Also a basketball tournament sponsored by the festival committee will be run concurrent with the festival. 
problems unique to independent institutions. Independent instu tions were previously immune to state action suits, but now the courts are paying special attention to certain cases. Board director Philip Moots gave as an example the hypothetical case of a student demanding due process under the educational institution's code be­fore being flunked out of a class or school. 
"Thesecond major area of con­cern" Moots continued, "is that the tax exempt status of some indepen­dent institutions is threatened." He pointed to a recent decision in Washington D.C. to tax charities, churches and pr'vate school. The philosophical rationale given is that these institutions were not paying their fair share for services receiv ed from the government. The other reason given is that the govern­ment needed additional revenue. 
Thirdly, Moots said, "The center may seek to do an analysis of the assertion of regulatory author­ity of the government based on funding in private colleges and universities." 
If given final approval after consideration by the members, these areas will be researched by special task forces directed by the board members. 
The resultant studies and re­search projects will serve as guide­lines for discussion of issues invol­ving government policy on inde­pendent institutions. There will be an emphasis in the Center's studies placed on private institutions of higher education. 
The 16-member board is chaired by Fr. James T. Burtchaell and includes Dallin H. Oaks, president 
of Brigham Young University, Con­
gressman Albert H Quie, Repre­
sentative from Minnesota and Lan­
drum R. Bolling, president of Lilly 
Endowment, Inc. 

Since its official establishment 
on Dec. 12, the Center has proven 
to be an active organization tack­
ling projects such as the prepara­
tion of briefs for the drafting of the 
Tax Credit Bill of 1977 which would 
provide tax credit for tuition paid to 
private educational facilities. 

The Center is also working on the preparation of a legal analysis of privacy and property relationships between administrations of inde­pendent educational institutions and sponsoring religious groups. Moots said that one aspect of this question may be whether the sponsoring church organization would be liable for debts incurred by the university administration should the university close due to financial difficulties. 
The majority of the funding for the Center is provided by Notre Dame, though there are other contributors. Future funding that would enable the Center to become a permanent fixture at the Univer­sity is anticipated from indepen­dent organizations that would benefit from the Center's research, Moots added. 
Moots forsees the growth of the University based Center into a coordinating point for related pro­jects throughout the nation. The Center would locate funding and research personnel. 
The Center, located in the Notre Dame Law School , is partially staffed by law students who will be working on cases for private per­sons and institutions. 

Chapter Meeting Notre Dame A.A.U.P. 

8 pm Monday Jan 30, University Club 
Agenda next steps in collective bargining 
chapter activity in academic freedom, non-discrimination, and mandatory retirement 
brief address by Prof. C. E. Eisiuger, President, Indiana A.A.U.P. Conference 
Reception will follow the meeting 
All Faculty Invited 
MANDATORY 



MEETING
SMC FOR ALL 


REPORTERS 
~____,1 ThursdaY. I.______, January 26 6:30pm 
SMC Office Basement of Regina South 
NEW 
R~?ORTERS 


WELCOME! 
If-you absolutely can't attend call Jean at 4001. 
• 

Thursday, january 26, 1978 

the observer 

Quinteros wins a~ward 
by Jean Powley and one of her former students, 
St. Mary's Editor Quinteros is "phenomenal." 
"She's very clear, direct-to-the-
Isis J. Quinteros. associate point and manages to describe professor of modern languages at evern the most difficult material in 'St. Mary's, has been awarded the a way in which one will retain it. college's annual Maria Pieta She's so good that I feel sorry for Award for excellence in the teach-the people who can't speak Spanish ing of freshmen and sophomores. and are unable to take her 
A member of the Spanish depart-classes," Miller said. ment's faculty since 1966, Quin-A nativ~ of Talca, Chile, Quin­teros was initially chosen by a teros recetved her master's degree special committee of five students. from the Univemity of Chile, three faculty members and two Sa~tiag? and her ~?h.D. from the administrators from nominations Umverstty of Madrtd. submitted by students, faculty and Sine~ Qu~itero~ is on sabbatical administration members. Her leave tn Chtle thts semester, the name and the names of two other awarding of the honor will be nominees were then presented to postpones un~il the fall. It includes the Academic Affairs Council a monetary gtft andl a plaque. which made the final selection. Conferred for the first time in 
. . 1976, the award honors Sr. Maria 
To be ehgtble for the award, the Pieta, profe·ssor emeritus of St. facult~ member must h~ve taug~t Mary's, who served the college for full ttme .at St: Mary s for stx many years as a teacher, counselor semester mcludmg at least one and administrator. 
lower division course each semes­ter. Areas of each nominee's teaching which were scrutinized by the committee included the seri­ousness of intellectual inquiry demanded of students, their challenging of the students' imagi­native and creative capacities, the attitudes toward study which they implant in their students and whether or not significant growth is evident in the quality of their students' work. 
According to Joan Miller. a senior Spanish and French major 

Hall presidents plan "ote on constitution revisions 

[Continued from page 1) kept of all student government Board of Commissioners meetings and Student Government and Stu­dent Union financial records would be available for student inspection on request. 
Two thirds of the Hall Council will have to ratify this constitution before it can replace the present one. Both Byrne and Kee said they hoped this will happen within the next two weeks. 
"It would be nice if the proposal 
passed quickly," Byrne said.  "Or  
else,  within  a  few  weeks  a  new  
government will  be  elected,  and  

they won't have a constitution they can work with." 
Kee said the Consitution Com­mittee sought advice from mem­bers of Student Government and Student Union in preparing the proposal. She added that the committee held a public meeting for student suggestions, and that they submitted a first draft of the proposal to the HPC for further suggestions. 
"I don't think it's a perfect document, but I think we need a new one," Kee said. "For one thing, without it we can't have a working Board of Commissioners." 
Tom Soma, student body vice president, said he would feel "comfortable" if the proposal is ratified. "I like it. I think that having the Student Union Director on the new Board of Commission­ers is a good idea," Soma said. 
"It's not complicated," he added, ''The committee cut out a lot of things that aren't needed. One thing I might object to personally is that I think the Judicial Coordinator should be appointed by the Student Govern­ment." According to the proposal, the Judicial Coordinator would be elected ''by majority vote of an assembly of the: outgoing Hall Judicial Board Chairmen." 
"It's a sound document," Byrne said. "At the very least it's an improvement on the existing con­stitution." 
Byrne claimed that his position on the propos~,)' s lack of an impeachment clause for student body president a:nd vice president was misrepresented in yesterday's Observer. Byrne cited a section of the proposal de:aling with "re­calls." 
That section reads in part: ''A petition bearing the valid signa­tures of 15 percf:nt of the under­graduate student body shall cause the Board of Commissioners to hold a campus-wide recall vote within two weeks of tht~ presentation of the petition." "A two-thirds majority of vot~::s cast shall be 


Social justice workshop planned 
This weekend students and fa­culty from St. Mary's and Notre Dame to participate in a workshop that has been described by Msgr. John J. Egan, director of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, as "one of the most outstanding learning experiences'' that he remembers. 
Sponsored by CILA in conjunc­tion with student government, the workshop will focus on three basic questions: l)How can students and faculty identify powerlessness and oppression on local, national and international levels?; 2)Are stu­dents and faculty obligated to do anything about these injustices?; and 3) How can they effect change? 



ERRATUM 
Due to a typographical error, National Labor Relations Board field examiner Joseph Duffey was misquoted in Tuesday's Observer as saying that the University "must agree to announce pay increases and other benefits for the purpose of lessening their interest in union­ization." Duffey actually stated that the University "must agree not to announce pay increases and other benefits for the purpose of lessening their interest in union­ization.'' The error occurred in the eighthparagraph of the article on NLRB unfair labor practices charges on Tuesday's front page. 

Senior Formal plans announced by committee 
The Senior Formal Committee has started its preparations for the Senior Formal which will be held on Saturday. April 22. at the Conrad Hilton in Chicago. 
Bids for the formal will be sold four to six weeks in advance, and the price of the bids will be approximately $50.00. Although this price is merely a rough estimate. it will include dinner. dancing. champagne and a formal souven,ir. 
For more information, contact either Mary White (6968) or Cathy Heckman (232-76 78) 


necessary for removal from offi~t~c:e·~·~·J!:--.::~!!!!!!~!!11 
0"1'::~::77'::~"?""'"~--.:::::-"""1::""""011:"""'1:~-o:::: Save This Paper! .....:::::...~~:;........:::~::....c:......£0iii~~~ 
Volunteers Needed for Recycling Pro~:ram I -2 hours per weE~k Contact John Ryan -8701 or 6413 
Newspapers will be recyded again begining Sunday. 
Part of the workshop will be reserved for discussion of partici­pants ' questions. 
The workshop will be given by Sr. Marjorie Tuite and Harry Fagan, two of the countrys out­spoken · leaders in social action ministry. Tuite, a teacher in Chicago, raises challenging ques­tions regarding the Christian's obligation to social ministry. Her insights are frequently based on Scripture. 
Fagan, a community organizer in Cleveland, . concentrates on strate­gies and action plans used in social ministry. His insight~ arise from many years of street experience. "Their combined perspectives offer an exciting way of looking at and helping us work toward social justice,'' according to Don Mur­phy, Education officer in CILA. 
DOONESBURY 
HAO A CH/INC$ Y5, SIR. 7lJ 8R/Jt(J~ 7J.I&R&'s ONe 7HR/Jf/6H 7He /NIT/AT/V/3 j ST~ PI3PART-1/&R£ IN PAR­: MffNT CATA-TICU/..AR. IAIC'IJ 
o tiJ(j{E Y~ LIKE YOU 7lJ ~ ZBIGGY? CONSIOeR';;f.
-\ 
~--=-­

The first session of the workshop will be held tomorrow from 7 to 9 
p.m. Session will be held on Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon and from 1 to 3:30 p.m. All sessions will be held in the Library Auditor­ium. 
Murphy recommends that every­one participate in all three sessions but suggests that those interested in one or two sessions attend tomorrow evening's session. All particpants should sign up in the Student activities Office before tomorrow noon. 
The workshop is open to all interested students and faculty members. Egan stated, "No matter what you go into --farming, law, engineering or business-­you'll gain a lot from this work shop. It's two days you won't forget. 
by Garry Trudeau 
''oEliJX& NOf(JJI-SW/H 0/A/.OGf/13. 

CIJMPR&IIeNS/Vf3:-RI3AOY-7lJ-IM­
PI£MENT FOR£!6N POLIC~ Fa< 
US~ IN O~INS IIIlTH N&IA/t.Y 

EMe/?.6/Ne NATIONS FROM 1He 
1HIRP ANPFOfKTH PKRiJJS. " r 

~. 1 ..~ 
II yoa'we perfor_. In the past or ,...,. Jat ... gelling ,., aet ..... gift • a eal at 1575 (•ry 10011) 
THE QUICKIE RIDES AGAIN! THIS FRIDAY NIGHT, JAN 27 STOPS: FORUM I & II CINEMA, 


Thursday, January 26, 1978
the observer 





Students comment on ND Saga food service 
by Ed Moran 

Students have relatively few complaints about "Saga Food Ser­vices," the firm which took over cafeteria operations this semester. Some students even had kind words about the change. Commen­ted one, "It tastes better than last semester." Said another, "the salad bars are an improvement." 
Students also don't seem to mind the new meal card checking proce­dure. "The wait is never more than five minutes," said a student who eats at the South Dining Hall. 
Despite the students' acceptance1 of the new system, local carry-out establishments such as "Lewis Hall Piz~a Service," have experiec­ed a slight increase in sales this semester. But apparently this increase has no connection with the switch in cafeteria operations. Suzanne Harty, manager of the pizza sales pointed out, "We have experienced a rise in sales, but it probably has nothing to do with the switch since the increase started midway through last semester." 
The question of the student's acceptance of the new cafeteria operations may be academic. Andy· Tomach, who eats at the North Dining Hall, commented, "It's a question of survival. I either eat the food or I starve." 

NROTC welcomes public to afternoon ceremony 
The public is invited to a Change during the fall semester. of Command Ceremony for Notre Of special interest will be the Dame's Navy ROTC Battalion of presentation of the Navy Achieve-Midshipmen today at 2:45p.m. ment Medal to Midn. 3/c Edmond on the ACC concourse. F. Feeks. This award, from the 
Secretary of the Navy, recognizes 

The acting Battalion Command-Feek's participation in an at-sea ing Officer, Midn.l/c David J. rescue during the United Kingdom Simmens, will be succeeded by SILVER JUBILEE Naval Review at Midn. 2/c Randal J. Wittry. Spit Head last summer. Various awards will be presented to Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, executive the outstanding midshipmen of the vice-president, will be the guest 
b~a~tt~al~io~n==fo~r~t~he~i=r~p~e~rf~o~rm~a~nc~e~is~p~ea~k~e~r~.~~~===~~~~
l 

1;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~:;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;::;::;::;::~;::;::~ 
II you've got some 
spare time in the •ening, the Nazz needs YOU! 
* No Eqerlenee Neeeaary * Wei teaeh f11 al ahoat oar 101M ...... ....... Nazz plzza11 ... 
Meeting 6:30 pm this FRIDA1 
""1IAZZ LIForta• Basement 
( .......,"',...,....., ) 
~----------"PERcENTOFF---------, 
WITH THIS AD 
PICTURE YOURSELF In the woods In the mountains On the beach or pick one of our other beautiful ENVIRONMENTAL BACKGROUNDS 
USING THE LATEST PROJECTED BACKGROUNDS YOUR PORTRAIT CAN BE UNIQUE 

PHOTOGRAPHY BY HANNA 
277-5448 
U.S. No. 31 North at Brick Road 
Open weekdays 5 :00 PM to 8:30 PM Saturday 11 :00 AM to 5:00 PM 
Stop in and design your own portrait style 
WEDDINGS-PORTRAITS-PORTFOLIOS 
---~~I.QB.§.:....!Y.E!...d!f.~~'!.P.!!!.'!!"~'!.."!~--• 




Carter advised to discourage US investm·ent in South Africa 
Washington [AP] • The Carter administration should forcefully discourage U.S. investment in South Africa because of that coun­try's official policy of racial apartheid, a Senate subcommittee said yesterday. 
"We're saying that if the South
African government wants to con­tinue down the road of legalized repression, this country is not going to support it," said Sen. Dick Clark, D-Iowa, chairman of the Senate foreign relations subcom­mittee on Africa. 
The United States has publicly condemned South Africa's racial 
policies and refused to sell arms to
the government of Prime Minister John Vorster. 
The present policy is to neither encourage nor discourage trade with South Africa. 
There was no immediate reaction from the White House on the subcommittee's suggestion that the Carter administration apply more stringent economic pressures to show its disapproval of South Africa's racial policies. 
The subcommittee studied U.S. corporations that do business in South Africa. In a report issued yesterday it found an "abysmal performance'' by most firms in relation to South Africa's policy of racial separation. 
"The net effect of American investment has been to strengthen the economic and military self­sufficiency of South Africa's apartheid regime,'' the panel said. "This", it said. "undermined the fundamental goals and objectives of U.S. foreign policy." 
In all, there are 260 U.S. 
******************** 




~ ••••••••••••••••••* 
~  SMC Student Government NOW  ~  
iC  accepting applications  lt  
~  for CO-EX COMMISSIONER  ~  
*  
iCiC  submit nominations Thurs-Mon. to Room 338 Agusta Hall  ltlt  
iC iC  deadline: Mon., Jan. 30,4 p.m. Do yourself (and Co-Ex) a favor  lt lt*  
iC  ques. call Mary 4357, Maria 5774  lt  

I Pre-Spring~,.,.. STANDARD • ·~·~ l t w t r..m-t:\( .,.._,_ a e 1n e~ 7 af\1 Tune-up Spec1al 4'  
FREE Oil CHANGE with Tune-up at Dick's Standard expires 2/9nS  
Try our new Car Wash FREE with full service fill-up  

companies with interests in South 
Africa, but fewer than one third 
responded in detail to questions 
about how black employees in that 
country are hired, trained, paid and 
promoted. 
Among the largest U.S. firms 
with interests there arc Mobil Oil, 
Caltex, Exxon, Standard Oil of 
California, General Motors, Ford 
Motor Co., Chrysler, IBM, control 
Data Corp. and the National Cash 
Register Co. 
It is estimated that U.S. firms 
with interests in South Africa 
employ about 100,000 persons in 
south Africa, 70 percent of them 
black, the report said. 
"We see only a handful of these 
American companies that are pay­
ing equal pay for equal work," 
Clark said at a news conference. 
While there are some recent 
indications that the level of U.S. 
investment-has been declining, 
Clark said, the effect of American 
dollars loaned or spent in South 
Africa through 1976 was to prop up 
that country's ability to purchase 
weapons and oil on the world 
market. 
Most U.S. firms say they are 
blocked from introducing equal 
opportunity policies, by South 
African racial laws, a contention 
challenged by the subcommittee. 
The report said only one U.S. 
company, Ford Motor Co., has 
made any moves to recognize black 
labor unions. It also said U.S. 
firms have failed to join with 
European companies in adopting a 
fair employment code. Both steps 
arc withing South African law, 
according to the report. 
SMC freshmen schedule meeting in Regina Hall 
St. Mary's freshman class will hold a meeting for all classmembers tonight at 8 p.m. in Regina basement. Plans for this semester, including the class formal, will be discussed. Cookies and punch will be served. 
need resumes in a hurry? 
~ 



~ :.! rr0il~~ 
. ~~ 

insty-prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 25 · 81/2 X 11 $2.65 203 N. Mam 
~nd 289-697 

Thursday, january 26, 1978 the observer 
Foreign Study Programs 
ND sophomore sf1ares 


experience in Ireland 
Above a small article in the Observer last thing they do fast is drive (with the year was a small headline--"SMC Offers exception of CIE busses). They have cars year abroad in Ireland." .. .Ireland, where the size of go carts and busses · as big as "the wars are merry and the songs are houses. A double decker bus is a motor sad,--a nation of poets, revolutionaries, vehicle that travels at the pace of a snail, and leprechauns. Such was my notion of and still manages to find every bump in the the tiny little island off Europe, from road. Looking out the dirty window on the whence my ancestors originated. Enthus­14 mile, 55 minute ride to Dublin is akin to iasticly, I applied, was accepted, and am watching paiint dry. A schedule sup­now a member of the pioneer group over posedly exists, but this is only the here. After being here for three months, I unsubstantiated rumor of some crazed feel somewhat entitled to give my own idealist. views of the program. 
An advantage of the Ireland program In all fairness to Sr. Alma, coordinator of was that a for·eign language did not have to the program, I confess that she did advise 
be learned. All the signs (a result of a us to be adequately prepared for the government regulation) must be in Irish change, meaning that we were to research (Gaelic) along with English. Sometimes 
it this summer. My own preparation though, the English is dropped. Imagine consisted of learning "Danny Boy"; read­my surprise, on my first day here, when I ing Leon Uris's Trinity; and drinking a six strolled into the lavatory marked MNA and ounce glass of stout. Thus prepared I went learned that it stood for "Ladies." Not across the ocean. 
knowing Gaelic, I had assumed it was a 
painter's mistake. 

The first day here was spent recovenng from jet lag. The first eight weeks were 
A few hours later, some guy was calling spent recovering from culture shock. From 
my Adidas vey dear, while asking me for a reading the Aer Lingus brochU':es (well, I 
fag. I gave hiim dear! Later I was told that did look at the pictures) I had had a definite 
"dear" means expensive, and that a fag is a cigarette.

image of Ireland: it would be St. Patrick's 
Day on Fifth Avenue every day, and little Even the monetary system is very
red headed kids would be playing soccer in different. Each coin contains enough metal 
the streets. My days would be spent inside for two Toyotas, and the paper denomina­the rustic old pubs of Dublin drinking tions vary in size, some being nearly as big
Guinness, pint after pint. Together with as posters. I never feel like I'm spending
the native Irish, I would pass the time "real" money; it's like one big game of 
philosophizing about government, the monopoly. I just can't win, even the 
Catholic church, and the troubles up North. 
international stock market is against me: 

As I am of Irish descent, I would fit in they floated the pound (sterling) and it 
perfectly. I knew all there was to know 
made impressive gains for the first time in about Ireland, or so I thought. years. Wonderful--! should major in economics.
What I didn't know could--and did--hurt me. Reality was quickly substituted for On top of all this trouble, there is my romance when I visited my first Irish pub. education. E:;pecially interesting is sociol­Not only is stout the most awful concoction ogy, as we an! doing culture. In sociology, perpretrated by man, but it costs $.85 a we are learning that a people's culture is glass. I couldn't even order the stuff their logical response to their problems. without embarrassment. I walked up to the For example, an American coming to bar, and in the best melodic brogue I could Ireland would probably think that it was all manage, I ordered "a pint of Guinness, mixed up an.d that the Irish would do Paddy." What came out was unadulter­everything as the Americans do if only they ated Brooklynese. If my voice didn't give could see the light. I was vehemently me away (only to deaf mutes) my painter's nodding my head in sympathy with my pants and blue suede Adidas did. Not to imaginary American friend when. the mention my Notre Dame windbreaker. professor conduded that "such a person is 
a narrow-mi1aded and short-sightedTo make matters I really

worse, was individual, with no concept of the world fending for myself. Helpless in the around him. This person is confined to the laundromat, weak in the kitchen, and boundaries of his own gross ignorance." I crippled in the art of house maintainance, I have since dropped sociology. 
could have been the poster child for the Salvation Army appeal. I had not taken Weekend travel is a big plus for the into account the mundane necessities of program. The Aer Lingus brochures are existence. I was deprived of the ND misleading though. For a country whose laundry service, the dining halls, maid temperatures rarely rise above 60, there service, and a shower (here baths predom­are a disproJPortionate number of beach inate). Where was mom? She was across and sunny day scenes in these brochures. an ocean. None of the pictures match mine: they 
show smiling faces in sunglasses andThe house itself did not help matters short-sleeved shirts, V~-ith clear blue skiesmuch. I was expecting to reside in a quaint above, and d.ry backgrounds; while minelittle thatched roof cottage--rugged but are permeatt:d by a grey haze, with thefunctional. Quaint takes on an entirely openly hostile faces of wet and wearydifferent meaning when you have to live it. 

travellers tired of posing for pictures while What I got was a white pasteboard house in clutching their "genuine Irish" souvenirs.

a subdivision that looked like a trailer park, 
a perfect ad for Rio Rancho. My spare time Then, of what value is this program? I 
has not been used reciting the poetry of think that even just living by yourself is a 
Yeats, or strolling down the banks of the great value. Where three months ago I did 
river Liffey. Rather, I am engaged in such not know how to turn a washing machine 
leisurely pursuits as cleaning ovens and on, I now engage in heated debates over 
refrigerators, and catching mice. St. the merits of hot water, as opposed to cold. 
Patrick may have driven all the snakes out, Futherrnore, living in a foreign country
but he did a poor job with the rodents. inevitably forces one to recognize one's 
own culture. I am American; more so than Maybe I could have survived all this if I ever imagined, and so are the thousands the food was decent. At home, I subsist on that march UJP Fifth Avenue in New YorkBig Macs, tuna heroes, and Skippy PBJ City every M~~rch 17. Perhaps the greatest sandwiches. Right now I'm going through value of the: program is learning thatwithdrawal. I have nightmares about my despite all the differences, every humansummer job (it was in McDonalds); I see being is the same as I am, with the samethirty mouth-watering quarter pounders on hopes, anxieties, frustrations, and loves-­the grill, while I am helpless to eat them. 

which is not as obvious a conclusion as itSince we are supposed to be getting into may seem. L:iving in Ireland has just beenthe Irish culture, I 'm embarrassed to be an invaluable experience. I wouldn't trade seen haunting the Dublin MacDonalds, it for anythin1g in the world. 

Burgerland, and Kentucky Fried Chicken. 
I would gladly kill for a Nathan's hot dog. 
Bm McGmn, the author of tbls article, IsJust crossing a street is a major a Notte Dam~e sophomore. He Is currendyoperation. As these people drive on the 

studying at St. Patrick's CoDege In

wrong side ofthe road; I am always looking Maynooth, llreland. _The. program Isthe wrong way before crossin~. And one sponsored by Saint :Mary's CoUege. 
Graduate student studies at Ecumenical Institute in Israel 
The idea for Tantur came about in 1964 
Seitz, a graduate student from Notre when Pope Paul VI made his historic visit 
Dame, gathers together with 17 other to the Holy Land. He remembered a 
scholars for vesper prayers in apicturesque suggestion by non-Catholic observers to ·chapel overlooking Jerusalem and Bethle­the Vatican Council n to set up such 
Jerusalem -Every evening Kenneth an 
hem. ecumenical institute and selected Jerusa­
')The brief service, which ends a day of lem as the place for it. 
study and introspection, is led by five Between Bethlehem and Jerusalem was 
Benedictine monks from Monserrat (near an abandoned hospital built in 1868 which 
Barcelona, Spain) and is interdenomina­had fallen into disuse since 1948. This site 
tional in content for the men and women 
was selected for Tantur and Notre Dame's who are spending an academic year here at president, Father Theodore Hesburgh, was "Tantur," the Ecumenical Institute for made responsible for raising funds, 
Advanced Theological Studies. building the institute and establishing the 
Seitz, who holds a B.A. in Ancient program guidelines. Today Hesburgh con­Languages, is currently in residence here tinues as Chairman of the Academic for the 1977-78 year, with his wife Kathrvn. Council. 
' i· 

. ~ ~ 
Notre Dame graduate Seitz wife Kathryn are spending 
the academic vear at the Ecumenical Institute in Israel. 
"Every day I remind myself I'm actuci.IIy Tantur was dedicated in September 1972 here,'' says Seitz about the experience of and facilities were opened to the first group studying in Israel. "I try not to take it for of scholars. Since then, 193 scholars from granted. Just to take the bus, to see the 38 countries, representing 21 religious country, to see how people live makes me denominations have participated in the feel very fortunate." programs. 
Kathryn Seitz, his wife, is teaching in Reverend Professor Walter Harrelson nearby Bethlehem. "In a sense I'm has just recently assumed the position as teaching because I'm here with my Tantur's new rector, on leave from husband. But I am happy to have this Vanderbuilt University in Nashville, Ten-opportunity for professional growth by nessee, where he serves as Distinguished teaching abroad in another culture." Professor of Old Testament. 
Tantur is located on a hill with breath-"Tantur provides a life together for a taking views. To the south, Mr. and Mrs. small group of scholars who care about Seitz can see Rachel's Tomb, Bethlehem similar things and who share prayer, and the Church of the Nativity; southwest meals, recreation, colloquia, seminars, is Herodian, the volcano-shaped fortress trips, public lectures and conversations. built by Knig Herod, and the fields of Boaz It's important for Christian ecumenism for from the Biblical story of Ruth; to the east, Tantur to exist," says Harrelson. across the Judean Desert, only 18 miles During the first semester this year, there away, is Quamram, where the Dead Sea were 18 scholars from the United States, Scrolls were found, and beyond is the Dead Norway, Switzerland, South America, Sea..North and west is Jerusalem, capital Korea, Germany and England, plus ap­of Israel. The valley in between is where proximately 18 accompanying family David won one of his greatest victories over members. the Philistines after he was made King. . The academic program includes weekly 
Tantur aims to be an interconfessional, colloquia to listen to formal presentations interuniversity and international institute of each other's research; two or more where scholars are invited to spend one or semester seminars led by the rector; a two semesters to pursue theological re-weekly lecture-discussion with Biblical search, and with a commitment to share scholars on every year's theme. This year the results with their fellow colleagues. the theme is "Prayer and the Mystery of 
Seitz is a graduate student at Notre Salvation." There are also visits to Dame University. About a year ago, he was historical sites around Israel. Scholars live having a conversation with his academic at Tantur. The main residential building advisor, Dr. Joe Blenkinsopp, who had accomodates single and married scholars been to Tantur, and was inspired to apply who can prepare their own meals in one to here. four-bedroom fully-equipped apartfDents, 
"I finished my course work in Old and or eat communally in a central dining New Testament and my dissertation will be room. On Sunday, the total community eats on an Old Testament topic. My main together. Physically, Tantur is a beautiful, purpose is to study modem Hebrew to peaceful setting in which to live and pursue better understand the Old Testament." one's research. 
Meanwhile, Mrs. Seitz is teaching four 
English courses at Bethlehem University, 'lbe above utlcle wu written by Sybil very near to Tantur, to Arabic-speaking 7Jmmerman md released to as by Features students. from Jerusalem. 

Attend a free 
Evelyn Wood Mini-LessonR at: 
THE NOTRE DAME A.C.C. THURSDAY AND FRIDAY ARE THE LAST DAYS FOR FREE LESSONS 
4pm. and 7:30pm. enter gate 2 



Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics. The Competitive Edge. 
Copyr9\t1977 Evelyn Wood Reading Oynamtcs. 

Women: involve yours~elves 
by Rick Travers 

"Women must have a sense of urgency to change the relationships in the Church, as with any institu­tion, and become more involved in the decisions that affect their lives," stated Sr. Marjorie Tuite in her lecture "Women in the Church 

SR. MARJORIE TUITE 

Today," presented last night in Carroll Hall at St. Mary's. 
Tuite, a teacher a the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago, pointed out the limited participa­tion she believes women have in almost all aspects of American decision-making. Power, she be­lieves, is controlled by a small group of white males at the top of 
Chess club 
to meet 

Sunday 

The Notre Dame Chess Club will hold a meeting this Sunday, from 2 to 5 p.m. in room 326 of the Math Building. All players and guests are urged to attend and asked to bring their own chess sets. 
Members of the club will partici­pate in a tournament at the Concord Mall in Elkhart this Satur­day, starting at 9:30 a.m. Anyone interested in playing in the tourna­ment or needing transportation should call Sam Shapiro at 234­9648 or Dan Castro at 3165. 
A match will be held Feburary 15, against the South Bend Chess Club for possession of the Donald Brooks Cup. For details, attend the Chess Club meeting Sunday. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES Logan Volunteers-old and new! Dance in the New Year with the first Logan Dance of 1978, this Friday, Jan. 27, 7:30p.m. til 
10:00 p.m. at the Logan Cafeteria. Join in the fun on Friday night. Any comments or questions call Art Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391). 
Transcendental Meditation Learn more about the TM Program: Thursday Jan. 26 7:110 library Auditor­ium 232-2808. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at 1 percent monthly interest $20-150. 1 day wait. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 11:15-12:15 M-F 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies. Box 7453, Phoenix; Ari­zona 85011. 

Typing done. Fast. Accurate, reasonable service. Close to campus. Ph. 272-7866. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, Fast Typing. MRS. DONOHO 232-Q746 Hours 8AM to 6PM. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters. 287­4971. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page· minimum. Call 232-o898. "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. 

FOR RENT White precipitate. Slippery and VERY cold. Good for chilling to the bone as well as breaking bones. We will ship. Contact South Bend Weather Service.. 
nearly all authoritative structures. These structures mUtst change so that all groups can work together on decisions affecting all, she said. 
"When dealing with sexism in society, you must also deal with racism and classism," she com­mented. "No one group should dominate any other. Equality must be total. There is no such thing as a little equality." 
Tuite stressed the need for greater participation of women in the power structures of the Church. 
Women today rely totally on men to receive the Eucharist, absolution or any of the holy sa<:raments, she stated. They are left outside the small circle of authority in the Church and, therefore, are extrem­ely limited in the way they can respond in ministry, she added. 
"Women must care enough about themselves to change the relationship in power structures to one of equal respe<:t and equal dignity so that all may have a voice in the decisions that affect their lives," she concluded. 
Thursday, January 26, 1978 the observer 



Sadat,Carter in 'constant contact' 
CAIRO [AP] • Egyptian Presi­dent Anwar Sadat said Wednesday he is in "constant contact" with President Jimmy Carter and that behind the scenes negotiations were under way to reopen peace talks with Israel. But Sadat said he does not know when or if the talks will resume. 
Israel, with U.S. help, reportedly had drafted a proposed declaration of principles aimed at restarting political talks in Jerusalem, which had begun to deal with the Palesti­nian and other issues before Sadat broke them off last week. 
Israeli officials said their country was awaiting a response from Cairo on the proposed declaration. 
The officials also predicted that the Israeli Cabinet this weekend would decide to renew the parallel military talks in Cairo, which the cabinet last Sunday chose not to rejoin. 
Assistant U.S. Secretary of State Alfred Atherton has been trying to mediate a dispute over wording of the declaration. 


E~arate & TaeKwonDo Club 
INVITES ALL MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY INTERESTED IN BE· GINNING THE STUDY OF KARATE AND SELF DEFENSE TO A'TIEND AN 
introductory meeting at the 
A.C.C. (Auxiliary Gym) 

on. Thursday, January 26 at 6.00pm. 
ALSO, PERSONIS WITH PRIOR EXPERIENCE IN THE MARTIAL ARTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO TRY OUT FOR THE NEWLY FORMED INTER-COL..; 
LEGIATE TEAM. 
~ 
LOST & FOU~ID 

Found: A black wallet behind Lyons Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed are an Indiana Driver's license, work ID and Library Card. Call to identify at 1715. 
Lost: Red necklace-looks like coral. Call 41-4161. 
Lost: Brown plaid wool scat·f Sat. night at Guiseppe's -very special Christmas present! Call 8132. 
Found: Pair of wire-rimmed glasses in a borwn cigarette-type case on the road between the library and O'Shag. Call 8842. 
Found: In LaFortune Student Center, 2 days before Christmas, avaluable writing instrument. Call Maribeth 3803 to ident­ify. 
Lost: Set of keys by ACC lcH Rink. Honda Key. Please call 277-0222. 234-8279 or turn in to rink Pro Shop for Thelma. 
Lost: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8!i40. 
WANTED 

Am interested in purchasir'g a bunch of tickets for NDvs. Marquette game. Call John 283-3829. 
Help! Need Marquette tix. Will pay good $. Call 283-8830. 
2 Marquette BB tix. Call Don 233-8036. 
Will pay your price for GA Marquette tix. Call7946. 
One roommate to share apartment at Campus View. Call Bill at 2n-3409. 
2 Marquette tix will pay reasonable sum of$. Call1612. 
~ 
I need someone to repair a ·Panasonic prtable B & W TV. Will pay cost plus. Call Steve 288-QOBB. 
Ya GA Basketball tickets to Maryland. Call Chuck 1143. 
Desperately nt:ed 3 or 4 tix for Maryland Game. Call 287-8479. 
Need 2 BB tickets for Maryland. Call 256-1341. 
Need 2 Marquette Ga tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
Need ride from Mansfield, Ohio or along the turnpike back to ND Sunday, Jan. 29. Call Diane 7883. 
Need 3 Maryland Ga tickets. Call Matt 3187 evenings. 
1or 2 B-ball tix for Marquette. Call 6326. 
Somebody to take over my lease -to share an apartment -cheap. 2 blocks from campus. Ed 8886. 
House parent room & board & $85 per week. Tax free. Close to campus. flexible hours. 232-4805. 
Need 2 Ga Marquette tickets real bad. George 1248. 
Need 1 Ga ticket for De Paul game. Call Pete 6891. 
FOR SALE Stereo for sale: Turntable, receiver, 8­track, speakers. Call Mike 232-o550. 
3-4 bedroom quadlevel; family room with fireplace; stove; refrigerator; dishwash­er; humidifier; custom-made drapes; professionally landscaped; 5 minutes from Notre Dame. Low 50's. Call after 6 p.m. 272-8308. 
19.6 Coachman Travel Trailer; like-new condition; sleeps 6; self-contained. $3300.00. Call after 6 p.m. 272-8308. 
In Tel Aviv, deputy Prime Mini­ster Yigael Yadin said Israel made an informal offer to Egypt for an exchange of territory to solve the dispute between the two countries over Jewish settlements in the Israeli occupied Sinai Peninsula. Yadin was the first senior govern­ment official to confirm an exchange of land had been pro­posed. 
Yadin said on televidsion the proposal was raised in "feelers of an informal nature" but Egypt rejected it. Sadat has said Israel's insistence on keeping Jewish set­tlements in the Sinai caused him to break off the peace talks last week. Israel has abut 20 settlements in the Rafah Salient in northeastern Sinai. 

Yadin said the Rafah area covers only one half of 1 percent of Egypt's land area and that if an exchange were agreed upon, Israel could not give up more than one half of 1 percent of its territory. 
By Yadin's calculation, Israel would give up 40 square miles of a sparsely populated section of the Negy Desert. Prime Minister Menachem Begin has publicly rejected the idea of changing the accepted Israeli-Egyptian boundry. 
King Hassan of Morocco called on Arab countries to rally behind Sadat saying such support would put pressure on Western leaders to persuade Israel to withdraw from occupied Arab territory. 

~********************************* 
EGre!fhound service to Chicago ~ E is BACK! E 
* * 
* *
* * 
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* Every Friday this semester * 
* * 
~ Buses leave Orcle at 6:05 : * * 
~ one way $8.15 round trip $15.50 ~ * * 
~ For info and tickets call Shep 8330 ~ ·*******************************-*~ 
Washburn D-28 guitar. 3 months old. $250. Paul 277-1874. 
Skis -Rossignol Roc 550's with Salomon 505's-excellent condition. Dave 277-4784 
Still need books? Pandora's has used, inexpensive books for many ND classes. We also buy used books. 937 South Bend Ave. (near Corby's) 233-2342. 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now available. Call 8982. 
Bic 981 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. 
BSR turntable with walnut base, dust cover. Call 7077. 
Need 1 ticket for Maryland game. Call Bob at 8330. 
PERSONALS 
Happy birthday, cutes. (Only aday late!) 
Happy 20th to the MOST beautiful girl in the world. No problem. Me 
There is nothing. fishy about Tom Feifar as L.M.P.F. 
His gills are the bast! Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddlefish!! 
Vote Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddle­fish. 
HAPPY HOUR this Friday at the Library from 3-6. Be there! ! Sponsored by the P.F.C. 
Latin tutor daspal'ltaly needed 2nd semester freshman Latin. will meet your price. Call 287-9104. 

Get soaked to the gills...Paddlefish happy hour this Friday from 3-6 at the Library. T-shirt orders will be taken. Also, there will be voting for Little Miss Paddle­fish. One cent per vote with the money going to charity. 
Cathy Santoro for Little Miss Paddlefish. 
All SMC Reporters: Mandatory meeting ­Thursday, 6:30 p.m. -in SMC office ­basement of Regina South. 
Rusty Lisch for Little Miss Paddlefish. 
I like it!! 

You will vote Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddlefish. How could you be so stupid not to? 
Tom Faifar for Little Miss Paddlefish. 
To everyone who worked for the Book Exchange, thank you from: Sr. Marita arvJ kids, T. Harr.el and co. Special thanks to·KQ for being "Kritsin" and helping out a friend. 
Congratulations to T. Hamel and KQ for running a fantastic book exchange des­pite all problems. 
Taka the Quickie this Friday night, January 'l7. 
Hey Snow Bunny! Here's your personal. Not much, but it says I love you! Tom 
Happy birthday to Ireland Sue, We really do miss you. Guess wl)p's number one, ooo hoo. They did lt.witllout you. Signed THE SIX PACK. 
-------.------
Bunky Defarquar wishes Sue Romano a Happy Birthday! 
James P. wishes Sue a Happy Birthday. 
Joe Bauer, you can have all the personals you want, only not In the paper...! 
· Your secret admirer 

------~------,~-­
Thursday, january 26, 1978

the observer 





Irish cagersout-scale Mountaineers 
by Paul Stevenson far in his career. This mark places Sports Editor him in alie for twenty-first position on the all-time Notre Dame scoring 
The Notre Dame basketball team earned their thirteenth victorv of the season last night in the ACC, out-scaling the Mountaineers of West Virginia, 103-82. 
The contest was close for the first ten minutes of action, but with 9:49 remaining before intermission, Dave Batton connected on an 18 footer from the left side of the kev to start the Irish on a surge on nine unanswered points. At the 7:32 mark. Tracy Jackson's tip in gave Notre Dame a 30-21 edge and ended the nine point streak. 
From that moment. the Irish gradually increased their lead throughout the remainder of the period. In addition, Notre Dame o;c•-:·.-·d the last three buckets of the hall tn take a commanding 52-33 ad .ntage at the buzzer. 
Ita the first half. the Irish found the range on 57 percent of their tkld goals. while-West Virginia ,.,,ulcl do no be,tcr than 34 percent. From the g:ft line. Notre Dame hit r.·n ·•f 12 for 8.1 percent. compared w 13 of 17 for 76 percent for the Mountaineers. 
The second period scoring was ntremclv close. with neither team ;tbll' to ·register more than four urwn~wl·rcd points. Notre Dame onlv nut-scnrcd the Mountaineers S1--N in the run and gun battle. 
With 14:52 remaining in the .,l-cond half. Batton scored on a rebound goal. That tally marked the one-thou!>andth point for the lri-;h Colt in his Notre Dame career. 
Then. with 8:12 remaining in the competition. Batton struck again. this time from 22 feet out. The Springfield. Pa.. native finished the game with 1.1 points. 1002 thus 
by Ted Robinson Sports Writer 

Bowling Green easily demon­strated that they deserved their fifth-place national ranking by downing the Notre Dame icers 5-1 Tuesday night in Bowling Green. Both teams skated their front-line unites in what has become a top-notch rivalry between teams from the WCHA and CCHA. 
The Falcons scored twice in the 
first seven minutes to take com­
mand of the contest agajnst John 
Peterson. who started in the nets 
for the Irish. The first goal came as 
the result of a daring play by 
defenseman Mike Cotter, who 
gambled at the right point to keep 
the puck in and fed it to Paul 
Titanic in the right corner. 
Titanic's pass in the slot to John 
Markell gave Markell an open shot 
at the Irish net. 

Bowling Green took advantage of an Irish line change to score their second goal just 90 seconds later. With the Irish forwards caught on the bench. Tom Newton blasted a low shot past Peterson off a three-on-one break to increas the Falcon lead to 2-0. 
Falcon goalie Wally Charko gave up the lone Irish goal late in the first period. and he had no one to blame but himself. Charko drop­ped hid stick in a scramble behind the net and was forced to return to the net without it. Kevin Hum­phreys made an alert play keepint the puck in the Falcon zone and his feed to Tom Michalek gave Micha­lek his ninth goal of the campaign. 
But the Bowling Green power play took any steam out of a possible Irish comeback early in the secon period. With Don Jackson serving a roughing penalty. Mike Hartman. Bowling Green's top goal !>corer. blasted a slap shot that · barely tucked underneath the crossbar over Peterson's right shoulder. Referee Bill Purcell, who at first disallowed the goal, changed his decision after confer­ring with the goal judge. 
Good pressure by the Falcon list with Gary Brokaw. 

"It feels great to be a member of 
such an elite group.'' the Notre 
Dame senior commented. "It's 
something you work toward for a 
long time." 
However, the Irish forward 
realizes that although personal 
records may be set, the objective is 
team play. On Sunday. the Irish 
will have their hands full against 
the Maryland Terrapins. 
"Maryland is looking to come in fired up." Batton continued. "They have good board strength and a strong inside game. The key to the game will be to shut them down inside." 
Bruce Flowers played one of his best games of the season. hitting seven of nine field goals and three of four free throws for 17 points. In addition. the Notre Dame junior hauled in a game high ten rebounds. Rich Branning also added 17 markers. connecting on seven of II shots from the field and three of three from the gift line. 
With Bill Laimbeer still sidelined Irish mentor Digger Phelps relied on his freshmen when Batton and Flowers were in foul trouble. Tripucka responded with IS points. while Jackson added eight. Starter Orlando Woolridge also contri­buted eight points. while Gilbert Salinas notched six. 
The poor first half showing by the Mountaineers was too great for them to make up. However. their situation did not look very optomis­tic even before the game began. The West Virginia cagers were operating without their best all­around player. Maurice Robinson. 

Kelly Tripucka came off the bench to score 15 points in Notre Dame's The 6-7 senior was suspended for victory over West Virginia. [photo by John Calcutt] 

Monte Towle==:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===:===================================================:=======:=:=:=:=:=~=====:=====:=:=====:=:=:=====================================================:=:===========:=:=========:===========:=====================================~==:== 
The Name of the Game 
:=:=:=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=:=;=;=;=;=;=:=:=:=:=:=;=====;=;=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:==::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:::::=::::;:;:;:::=;===:=~=~=~==?:=:=;=;=;=====================::::=:=:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::;::=::;;;;;;;;;:;;;::==;=;===;=;=;=;=;=;=;== Rags 
Bowling Green skates past ND, 5-1 
forwards resulted in the fourth goal eight minutes into the middle stanza. Hartman fired a quick wrist shot at Peterson off a faceoff. The puck struck Peterson on the mask and Steve Murphy banged the rebound into an empty net. 
Len Moher, who replace Peter­son with seven minujtes remaining in the period was the victim of a 1ine shift that lasted nearly two minutes, late in the stanza. With the Irish desperately needing a change. Dave Easton scored with only seven seconds remaining on the clock for the S-1 count. 
Although the third period was scoreless. both teams had good scoring opportunities. Notre Dame hit the post twice, while Moher played an outstanding period. making 15 saves. 

After the game. Irish Coach Lefty Smith had admiration for Bowling Green's talent-laden squad which is trying for its second consecutive invitation to the NCAA Championships. 
"They are the fifth-ranked team in the country. so I expected them to have talented players." Smith noted. "They have excellent quickness up front. It's hard telling how they would match up against the WCHA's top teams." 
In addition to the final score. the Irish had further reason to leave Bowling Green with a bad taste in their mouths. Leading scorer Don Fairholm left the game with a knee injury in the second period after being sandwiched on a rush into the Falcon zone. The injury was 
Like short people, those persons with uncommon or funny names are 
often the target of jibe talk. Let's face it though, a funny name is 
something to laugh at. Laugh and the world laughs with you. With that in 
mind. I now present my second annual name awards in college basketball 
circles. There are many good ones. but here are a few of the best. 
In our first category. there are 15 names. This comprises an all-star 
team. It is required only to have either a funny first or last name. You will 
notice. however, that several players have humorous first and last names. 
It is said that two heads are better than one. So be it. They are Drew 
Head. a 6-8 forward for Oklahoma (a repeater from last year) and zany 
Zelwoud Head of Texas-Arlington who is a 6-8 reserve center. There are 
only four guards on this squad. Don't underestimate their humor 
potential though. Niagara's Don Drum is known for setting the tempo of a 
game as is Butch Bontempo. The latter stands 5-10 and attends West 
Chester College. Don't ever bet against Bucknell's Morsal Betts. Like . Fresno State's Royce Blackshear. he can cut your defense to shreds. 
In the frontcourt. we also have Odell Ball, a 6-9 forward at Marquette 
who transferred from Kent State a while back. Speaking of Kent State. 
they are represented by Trent Grooms, a star of 6-6 stature. Matt 
Beerbower also measures 6-6. He really puts them down for Ball State. 
Through the hoop that is. Clemson's Colon Abraham never pauses at his 
forward position. Reminiscent of Marshall's Harley Major, he takes 
command of the game at will. · 
Louisiana State has not been known for fielding basketball powerhouses . 
in recent years. But in 1978, the odds are beginning to weigh in their 
favor. Credit that to Dewayne Scales, a forward who stands 6-7. Also 
from the SEC. we must take a long, pointed look at Wiley Peck, another 
6-7 forward. He dresses for Mississippi State. 
diagnosed yesterday as a torn ligament in the right knee. Fairholm will undergo surgery tomorrow. and will be lost for the remainder of the season. 
The crippling injury will give junior Brian Burke an opportunity to skate a regular shift as he will center the line with Terry Fairholm and Kevin Nugent on the wings for this weekend's series in North Dakota. 
The trip to Grand Forks will be a crucial test for the Irish as they enter the second half of the league season in a hotly-contested race for the playoffs. North Dakota. whom the Irish defeated ·twice in South Bend in December. are in seventh place in the league, one point behind the Irish. 

one game by Head Coach Jody 
Gardner for missing three practices 
earlier in the week. Robinson was 
Gardner's top rebounder and lead­
ing scorer against the Irish last 
season in that 81-68 upset in 
Morgantown. Robinson registered 
21 points and hauled in 15 caroms 
in that Mountaineer victory. 
However, although Robinson 

was absent from action, Lowes 
Moore picked up the slack for West 
Virginia. The sophomore led all 
scorers with 40 points. Those 40 
markers, 20 in each half. set a 
scoring record for opponents in the 
Ace. 
Junius Lewis added 19 points for 

West Virginia, connecting on eight 
of nine shots from the floor and 
three of four free throws. 
The Mountaineers upped their 

field goal percentage in the second half to 63 percent. Meanwhile, the Irish also shot 63 percent from the ·field after intermission, 60 percent 
for the entire game. 
"Notre Dame has an excellent ballclub," Gardner remarked. "They're aggressive. they're big and they hustle." 
Phelps was satisfied with the 

showing his Irish displayed. 
"Obviously. we are pleased wjt~ a 
performance like tonight's," 
Phelps stressed. "It's tough for 
any team to play three games in 
four days. This is our thirteenth 
win. we need seven more." 
The next Notre Dame basketball 

game will be this Sunday against 
Maryland in the ACC. Tip-off is 
slated for 4 p.m. 
One further note. the DePaul contest orginally scheduled for February II has been changed to February 12. That clash will start at 2 p.m. 
The Fighting Sioux possess one of the league's top freshmen in wipger Dough Smail. but their defense and goaltending has been sporadic according to Smith. Bill Stankoven and Mel Donnelly have been alternating in the nets for Dakota. who ranks ninth in the ten-team league in defense. 
Smith is hoping for a good weekend series from freshman defenseman Don Lucia who played well in Bowling Green while being paired with Don Jackson. Dick Howe and Jeff Brownschidle will continue as a pairing and Dan Byers will skate with freshman Scott Cameron. 
Both North Dakota games begin at 9:30p.m. There will be no local radio coverage. 
Rounding out our appellation all-stars of America are Rich Bobby, a 6-4 forward at Oklahoma State and Valley Rank of San Jose State, a 6-6 forward. Rank also gets the nod as the Most Valuable Name (MVN) on this motley. His name may not quite match that of last year's MVN, Redonia Duck, although it is as old as the mountains. 
Four our next category, let's take a peek only at last names. There's nothing espec!ally extraordniary with these names. But it's not often that such words are used in personal titles. 
We have Gary Speed of Maine. Ron Peaks of Canisius. Rory Sparrow of Villanova, Duquesne's Maurice Drinks. Mike Ice of Penn State, Chris Ash of Ohio, Shawn Thrower of Northern Illinois and Kevin Justice who plays for Eastern Michigan. That's not all. Let's also include Lee Raker of Virginia, Matt Courage of William and Mary, Macus Penny of Wichita State and my favorite, Murray State's Mike Muff. 
There weren't as many good nicknames this year as last. It might be worthwhile to mention Jeff "Tin Man" Heller, a 6-9 center from Portland. 
Also included are Johnny "L'il Houdini" Darden of Tennessee. He worked magic at the rate of eight assists per game last year. Clarence "King Kong" Kea of Lamar rounds out this illustrous trio. 
Finally, here's a celebrity all-star college basketball lineup. Yes, there really are players with these names. Ther is no chance of confusing them with their famous namesakes. We have, excuuuusssseeee me ... Steve Martin of Georgtown, Ted Williams of Toledo, George Marshall of Bowling Green, Arizona State's Johnny Nash, Jerry Brown of San Diego State and Tom Snyder of St. Mary's (Calif.). 
In closing, I refuse to include the name of a cettain fieanuts comic strip character as a famous name. It seems every year as though there are about a dozen C.B. 'splaying college ball and his name is no longer novel. 


