St~dent Body President Andy McKenna announced his cabinet yesterday. Seated, left to right, are Bruce Boivin, Mary Schmidtlein, Andy Herring, Andy McKenna, Mickey O'Connell, Nina Burrell and Tim Seifert. Standing, left to right, are Paul Faldutto, John Simari, Jay Gendren, Tim Krausse, john Dziminski, john Fitzpatrick, Phil johnson, Manny Grace, Kathy Rosenthal and Beau Mason. Missing are Helen Marks, Rick Remmick, Jayne Rizzo, Mike Roohan and Richard Gobbie. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 
McKenna announces Government Cabinet 
by KevJn Richardson 
Student Body .President Andy McKenna formally announced his Student Government Cabinet yesterday, noting "We plan to meet with each of the commis­sioners in the coming week to discuss in greater detail the scope and direction of their particular office." 
"After a tough week of decisions on who would best fit the needs of the student government and the student body, "McKenna stated, "We feel we have the best possible cabinet body." _ 
The cabinet will consist of: Richard Gobbie, academic commis­sioner; Mickey O'Connell, alumni representative; Nina Burrell, career development director; Helen Marks, coeducation commissioner; Bruce Boivin, co-ex commissioner; John Simari, housing director; 
Manny Grace interracial concerns commissioner; John Fitzpatrick, off-campus director; John Dziminski, press secretary; Jim Seifert, public relations director; Phil Johnson, security commis­sioner; Paul Falduto, social con­cerns commissioner; Rick Remick and Mary Schmidtlein, social life 
McCurrie . 
• ·· · · ··· 
1

WIRS .unior 
commissioners; Andy Herring, special projects commissioner; Jay Gendron, student lobby director; Kathy Rosethal, third world con­ference director; Pat Mason, trea­surer and Jayne Rizzo, judicial coordinator. 
In an informal meeting with his partially selected cabinet last Thursday night in the Center for Continuing Education, McKenna explained the role of the cabinet, what is going to be expected from cabinet members and the objec­tives of his administration. 
"We have opted to eliminate the Executive Coordinator position and now have the SBVP performing the duties of a chief-of-staff," McKenna said. "We feel that this action will help develop the work­ing relationship between the SBVP and myself while also giving the vice-president a more active and ~efined role in student govern­
ment," he added. 
Explaining the duties of the various cabinet positions, McKen­na said, ''The acadmeic commis­sioner, among other duties, will work with the Scholastic on a course evaluation booklet, review the pass/fail option, review At-f/PM exam policy, and work with college advisory councils." 
The alumni representative will ·'be responsible for sending out the alumni newsletter, communicating with the Alumni Board, investigat­


. · ••• ·•· ·•· •. •. •• •• ··. ··. •· ing a summer work program with 
~h~l9i:J i~!th ·..···• •.. · Notre Dame alumni assisting cur­
.•· •• ·• rent students in obtaining summer
· < jobs and working with Notre Dame 
Magazine in informing alumni of 

•what is going on at Notre Dame," • • McKenna stated. According to McKenna, ''the career development cabinet officer oo'CeillC·· )Ct}t Hr will study the Saint Mary's Career ~!~~J@Iilii Development program and famili­vi<:e«J!lfE~klellit; arize herself with the placement bureau. She will also be respon­surer. . <• sible for developing career work-
Members of the MeGratb ~f shops on topics such as resume included Joan Jacobsen, ~~> writing and career selection," he president; Cindy Jennings, sCtre-noted. 
The co-education commissioner tary; and Tom Maurath. trea$urer. will plan and initiate projects for 
"Needless to say, we are really the future in regards to this happy with the election resutts:• subject, study the possibilities for McCurrie stated. "I believe that co-residential living and review the 
the strength of our campaign was co-ed report, McKenna said. the hard work put in by all the "The cO:.ex cabinet member wil students who worked for us~ and work to improve SMC relations, 
l'rr -eaUy grateful to them.n deal with improving the shuttle 
L.,yle adde. "We are planning service and serve on the Food on gettng together with. the .stu­Service Board,'' McKenna explain­dents from the other tickets to fa1k ed. 
about their ideas and su~s "The housing position will exa­
so that we can make next yf:alt as mine the fire regulations, investi­good as possible for the Junior gate the maintenance problems in Oass." 
the dorms and work to handle the problems of social space in the dorms," McKenna said, "while the interracial concerns position will work to provide assistance to minority groups and communicate the minority experience to all students." 
The press secretary will assume responsibility for sending out newsletters to the students, head­ing the campaign for student input, and dealing with the Observer, WNDU, and other media, accord­ing to McKenna. Complimenting the press secretary's efforts, the 

Cheerleaders selected 
by Kate NUand 
The Notre Dame cheerleading squad for 1978-79 was selected in tryouts last Friday night in the ACC pit. 
Girls representing the Irish next year will be Phyllis Washington and Amy Olin, both from ND, and Kerry Rhoa, Loretta Ransom, Mar­garet McGlynn, and Mary Beth Dvorak, all from Saint Mary's. 
All of the girls are Siophomores with the exception of Rboa, who is a junior, and Olin, who is a freshman. 
Ed Hourihan, Kevin Ryan, Paul Adams, Bill Leicht, John Ferrick, and Paul Broughton are the male cheerleaders for next year. All are sophomores except f01t Hourihan who is a junior, and Broughton, who is a freshman. 
Steve Muething, a sophomore, 
was selected as the leprachaun. 
The squad of twelve was chosen from a field of approximately thirty girls and fifteen guys. The girls were selected in two tryouts while the guys were selected in one. 
Contestants of both sexes were 
judged in partner stunts, chants, 
and optional routines. The girls, in 
addition, were required to make up 
a dance routine while the guys 
were required to perform both 
gymnastic and mini-tramp rou­
tines. In addition, all contestants 
were interviewed by the judges. 
The cheerleading squad was then 
selected based on point totals. 
Due to controversies involved in 
last year's tryouts, certain require­
ments were established for this 
year's selection. Th&squad had to 
include at least one black and one 
SMC girl. Both these requirements 
were satisfied when the points· 
more were totalled. However, had 
these requirements not been met 
necessary cheerleaders would have 
been added to meet these quotas. 
1public relations director will work her will work to provide off-campus ·with the Council of Communic.a­storage facilities, deal with the tion, study student government's South Bend police in security image and administer the student 1).1atters and crime prevention, government survey. handle landlord problems and "Our off-campus cabinet mem-[Continued on page 3] 


2 the oburver Monday, April10, 1978 
,....News Briefs_____ . ADA opposes arms sale 


Somalian revolt crushed 

[API • Americans for Democratic Action said it opposes President Carter's proposed arms sale package to Egypt, Israel and Saudi Aabia. In a meeting Saturday, ADA's national board urged Carter to provide "Israel with the military assistance and equipment necessary to give it the confidence it needs to make the territorial concessions West Bank and Sinai settlements which are required for peace." 
Miners health and saftey 
[API • The government is extending until May 3 a deadline for comments on new regulations relating to health and safety standa~ds i~ the nation's mining industry. The proposed regulations, !s~ued _by t~e Labor Department's Mine Safety and Health. Admtntstrat10n, mclude procedures for handling miners' complamts of hazardous conditions and petitions for modifying application of a safety standard. 
New standards for EOE 
[API· T~e government has issued new regulations, effective May 7, to estabhsh equal opportunity employment standards on federal and fe~erally assisted construction work. The new regulations, issued Fndar by Labor Secretary Ray Marshall, set for the first time goals and timetables which contractor~ receiving more than $10,000 in federal money must observe in hiring and promoting ntinorities and 
women. 

Weather 
Mostly cloudy today with a 60 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms. Highs in the low 70s. There is a 70 percent chance of more rain tonight with lows in the low 40s. Cloudy tomorrow with showers ending and highs in the mid 50s. 

~On Campus Today __! 
12:30 p.m. 3:15pm 
3:25pm 
4 pm 
4:30-6 pm 6:30pm 
7 pm 7 & 10 pm 
7pm 
7:20pm 7:30pm 
8pm 10 pm 
film, "juvenile justice system," spon. by women's rights association, law school rm. 105 
career workshop, "information gathering and job search," spon. by career development ctr. speaker, betsy twitchell, 170 lemans. 
I 
seminar, "the effect of wettability on oil displace­ment by micellar flooding," by prof. victor j. kremesec, jr., u. of illinois, 269 chem. engr. bldg. 
seminar, "p3o atom formation in gamma irradiated aqueous bromate-cyclopentene solutions," by dr. edwin a. hart, argonne nat'l lab. cont. spon. by radiation lab, rad. lab. 
movie, "drink, drank, drunk," smc dining hall. 
lecture, "a value clarificaiton," by dr. kathleen rice, smc dean of students, keenan hall. 
lecture, "success and alcohol," by mr. hickey, local businessman, holy cross hall, nd. 
film series, "day of wrath," by carl dreyer, spon. by col. of arts & letters & medieval inst. engr. aud. no charge. 
one earth lecture, "rebirth of democracy in india," by dr. nani palkhivla, indian ambassador to the u.s., spon. by international student organization, hayes­healy aud. 
duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculty, & staff. univ. club. 
illustrated lecture, "the history of sex in cinema," by author knight, prof. of cinema usc, spon. by suac, lib. aud. & lounge. 
concert, jackson browne, ace, tickets, $8 & $7. 
one earth film, "around the world in 80 days," engr. aud. 
NAIROBI, Kenya [API··Young officers influenced by "new imper­ialists" tried to overthrow the government of Somali President Mohammed Siad Barre yesterday but were quickly crushed by loyal troops, Siad Barre announced. 
The coup attempt came one month after Somalia's defeat in the Ogaden war against Ethiopian troops backed by the Soviet Union and Cuba. The Somalis recently have used the term "new imperial­ists'' to describe the Cubans and Russians. 
Diplomatic observers had also predicted, however, that Somali troops embittered by the retreat might strike out at Siad Barre. 
Western diplomatic sources con­tacted by telephone in Mogadishu, capital of the East African nation, 
Backgammon
.
--· ­

s1gn-ups 
The Knights of Columbus are sponsoring an all-campus back­gammon tournament · beginning April 12. Sign-ups will be held today in the Saint Mary's dining hall and at the South Dining Hall and Tuesday in the North Dining Hall. For further information call Bob Bellissimo at 1204. 
Chairman needed for class trip 
Final applications for chairman for next year's senior trip to Southern California must be sub­mitted to the Office of Student Activities in LaFortune by 5 p.m. Tuesday. Interviews will be held Wednesday and Thursday and the chairman will be announced on Friday. 
The Observer Is published Mon. dey through Friday except during exam end vtKetlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame end Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased for no per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlene 46556. Second class postage peld, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is • member of the Asaoclettd Prtu. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 




ROCCO'S 

BARBERS 

hairstylists 
531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
-
*The Observer 

PREPARE FOR: ~h J 
MCIT •DIT •LSIT •BMIT 
Year
Night Editor: Joe Bauer 

Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson 
• •OCIT ·VAT· SIT 
layout Staff:Sue Wuetcher John Cassidy, Steve Mayer' 


1MB I, II, III·ECFMI·FLEI·IQE
Bill Devitt ' 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
Editorial layout: Rosemary 
Flexible Provr•ma • Houra
Mills Features layout: Frank Lau· 
CJ'lane IS • ••ffnna&elll 
rino For Information Please Call: ~~
l
Sports layout: Ray O'Brien, 

Collect MPI.IN
Lou Severino West lafayette EDUCATJO.w. CENT£11
Typists: Beth McPherson 

317-463-7541 TEST I'M"AIIATION 
Carol Erkmann, Anne Giere: 
SI'ECIALISTS SINCE lUI 
Mark Rust 

Serving :BJoQJ!lingtoD, IndianapoUs, South Night Controller: Mardi Nevin 
Bend ' For IDeations in other cltie1 ­Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOll FREE: 100-223-1712 Cltltll'l In Mllor US Cltift Toronto, PIHirtD Rico and Lupno, Switzerland
Copy Readers: Debbie Dahr­ling, Jack Pizzolato 

Register now for swnmer MCAT class. 
Photographer: Leo Hansen 
..._ 
said gunfire broke out about 8:15 
a.m. at the village of Afgoy, eight miles south of Mogadishu, and continued for aobut two hours. The 
sources  said small arms  fire and  
explosions  were  heard  in  the  
capital.  

Siad Barre later announced on official radio, monitored here, that "a few" rebel officers and enlisted men "were immediately faced by the armed forces who put their rebellion -down.'' He said the insurgent were captured and would "be tried according to Somali law." 
"We have overcome them. All is well, all is normal," he said. 
No official casualty report was given, but the sources said there were indications of deaths. The government news agency in nearby Sudan said a number of Somali attempt to shed Somali blood," and he urged Somalis to be "vigilant against the agents of colonialism who are out to disrupt national unity." 
Ever since Somalia withdrew its troops from the Ogaden desert of eastern Ethiopia, diplomatic sources in Mogadishu had been warning of a possible coup bid against Siad Barre, who himself took power in a 1969 military uprising. 
Somalia's forces had joined eth­nic Somalia in the Ogaden in an effort to wrest the region from Ethiopian control. The insurgents have continued hit-and-run strikes in the Ogaden, claiming yesterday in a statement broadcast by Somali radio that they blew up a truck and killed 30 Cuban soldiers riding in it near the northern town of Ji"i a. 

Acmunting Sales Rnadal Analysis Administrative Data Processing Manager Trainee Systems Personnel Engineering Technical Areas 
NOW IS THE TIME TO give serious thought to your futur1; 1nd Ill one of our 5 professlo111l Employment CouRIIIIon llllst 1ncl guldl you; you RliY call or come In with complltl confldllltllllty to: 



Slllinn~SIIIIili (j 
Worid't l.Mpst II E111plo,_nt s.r.!, 
Charmer of Convnen:e Bldg. 224 W. Jefferson Blvd. S-311 South Bend, Ind. 234-9011 A licensed ~loyment Agency 


Monday, April10, 1978 the observer 


Hesburgh stresses justice in 'One Earth' Mass 
by Chuck Kaufman 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh celebrated the inaugural mass for "One Earth" last night at 7 p.m. in the Sacred Heart Crypt. 

Hesburgh spoke on the theme of justice, noting that although "we live in a world which is anything but peaceful, there will be no peace unless we are willing to work for justice." 
The basic injustice which must be overcome, Hesburgh said is that "one-fifth of the world's population has 80 percent of the ?"orld's resources." Hesburgh went on to state that "we didn't create this world, but this is the world that exists. If we pray for justice and peace, it doesn't make much sense unless we're willing to work for justice and therefore peace." 
Hesburgh observed that a simi­lar message could be found in the Sermon on the Mount. He quoted Christ, saying. "happy are those who hunger and thirst for justice for they will be filled." 
This, according to Hesburgh, is the essential core of Christian teaching. "Ifyou don't hunger and thirst for justice. you aren't a 
'Keenan Cellar' holds opening 
The "Keenan Cellar," which held its grand opening this past weekend, is looking for anyone wishing to perform. Those inter­ested may call 3383, 3338, or 3379. 
Rich Pugliese and Mike Kam­merdiener kicked off the grand opening on Friday nigh, with the Klee brothers performing on Satur­day night. On Sunday, entertain­ment was provided by the team of Bill Shaughnessy, Renard Guer­inger, Brian Mullins, and Jim Carroll. 


'One Earth Week' schedule 
SU sponsors foreign fest~ival 
One Earth Week." a week-long foreign festival sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Union, began yesterday and will continue through Saturday. 
The purpose of "One Earth Week" is to promote intercom­munication between foreign stud­ents attending the University and the rest of the ND community. Members of the International Stud­ent Organization (lSI) of Notre Dame will participate in the events. and all members of Notre Dame and South Bend communities are invited to attend. 
Events began yesterday evening with a mass celebrated by Univer­sity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh in the crypt of Sacred Heart Church. Following the mass, Albert Wimmer. assistant pro­fessor of Modern Languages at Notre Dame, gave a lecture entitled "East-West Relations After the League of the Democratic Com­munist Manifest'' in the Architec­ture Auditorium. 
The schedule for the rest of the week includes lectures by two ambassadors to the United States. as well as by professors from Notre Dame and Indiana University of South Bend dt:SB). Nani Palkhivali. Indian ambassador to the Us.. will talk on the "Rebirth of Democracy in India" tomght at 7 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Audi­torium. The Libyan Ambassador to the U.S.. lbrah1m El-Sharif. will give a lecture on ·PC:ople'!> Author­ity -Direct DemC'Cracy Theory'· at 
7:30 p.m. Friday night in the Library Auditoriuin. 
Tuesday nighi at 8 p.m. Yu-ming Shaw. a;sistant professor of History at Notre Dame. will present a lecturt! on the "United States and the Tangle of the Two Chinas" in the Archite(·ture Audi­torium. Prof. Rogelie deJa Torre of IUSB will give a talk entitled "The Cuban Revolution: A look in 
...........·.-..· ....-.. ..•,· .-.·, 

Christian," he stated. 
Immediately after the mass, Professor Albert Wimmer of the Notre Dame Language Department spoke in the Architecture Audito­rium on "East-West German Rela­tions After the League of Democra­tic Communists' Manifesto.'' 
Wimmer explained that the 
•'Manifesto'' was anonymously published in the West German magazine Der Spiegel early this yar and became a source of intense 


A member of the congregation at the "One Earth" Mass. [Photo by leo Hansen] 
controversy because of its declara­tions against the East German government. The "Manifesto" called for free political parties in East Germany, independent parlia­ment and courts, and abolition of the so-called dictatorship of the proletariat, which the article de­scribed as "dictatorship of a clique." 
The most hotly debated points of the document according to Wim­mer, are its denunciation of the Soviet Union for alleged "brutal exploitation of East Germany," 
Retrospect" Wednesday night at 8 
p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Audi­torium. At 8 p.m. Thursday evening, in the Library Auditorium, A. Peter Walshe, prof­essor of Government and interna­tiona) Studies at Notre Dame, will present a lecture on "Southern Africa in Crisis." 
Other events for "One Earth , Week "include the movie · "Arou~d the World in 80 Days," t~ be shown tonight at 10 p.m. in the 
Engineering Auditorium. Admis'­ 
sion is free.  
..  ..  ..  

One Earth Marketplace .'"[Ill be held tommorrow through ~rtday from 11 p.m. to 5 p.m. tn the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Stud­ent Center. Imported. products from all over the w~rld wt~l be sold at the marketplace, mcludmg _hand­made w~crafts, ~acrame, jewel­ry • clothmg, and stlv~r products.. All of the pro~e:ds wtll be contn­buted to mtsstons around the 
world. 
The highlight of "One Earth Week" will be the "International Festival" Which is to be held Saturday evening at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Notre Dame foreign students from Latin Amer­ica. Ireland, Austria, France, China, Islamic Countries, Indian countries. and the Philippines will present a varity of acts, displaying the cultural heritage of their native 

at the Observer office 

prn. Free registration. Education Placement Service of 
third floor LaFortune

Indiana. mon-fri till 5 
.. .. 
.•'f.'.'' ~~'.~ ·; ..:~/~'i~·..; .• ~ .....~~ ... r ,·, 6 I .-~-.........-............._.-'• ' • I t' .... •' I -o" o" o• ,~ .~ ,-,-,~ ,· .~ • '. 
and its desire for the "legitimate unification of Germany.''' 
The article, however, admitted that legitimate unification would be impossible under pres-ent condi­tions, Wimmer stated. The issue of unification is particularly painful for East and West Germany Wim­mer noted, because both are pursu­ing a mutual policy of e;lSed travel and trade restricitons. He pointed out that Germany seeks increased access for West German families to 




McKeJrJna names Cabinet 


[Continued from page 1] 
and federal legislation and notify study the possibility of university the SBP and SBVP on any legisla­owned housing," McKenna said. tion which affects students. He will "He will also expand t:~e student also, McKenna stated, "help coor­co-op, investigate transportation dinate Notre Dame's efforts in problems, and strive for a more lobbying for eduction bills, review cohesive off-campus life," the stu­possible grant to student organiza­dent body presidnet addled. tions, and lobby for legislation to 
Security problems will be re­help the South Bend communtiy." searched by the security commis­"The director for the third world sioner. The commissioner will conference will coordinate the con­instruct off-campus students in ference and work to create aware­crime prevention and investigate ness of the conference's ideas to the effectiveness of a security tHe students," McKenna com-­advisory panel. The 2>0cial con­mented. cerns commissioner will work with "The social life commissioners CILA and the Center for Experien­will work to examine ways in which tial Learnng, sponsor social justice· the social life can be improved, and workshops, and strive, a1:cording to just generally see that the type of McKenna, to maintain a high level of social justice at Notre Dame. 
The special projects: commis­sioner will investigate the possibil­. ities for lighting on the Stepan basketball courts, establishing a 

:t~ ~\ 

senior dorm, dealing with the ~"0
~~-.. 
renovation fo the LaFc1rtune Stu­dent Center, and researching the 


----·-~lltJ.~WEDNESDA NIGHT 
possibilities of a campus bowling 
alley and laundry machines on 
the North Quad. 

McKenna said, "The director of the student lobby will deal with the 19-year old drinking age legisla­)ion, will work to be aware of state
i . 
I 
lat¢s. There will be colorful costumes, music and dancing, plus nttny different languag<:s and folk­spngs.f Patricia Leon, a Notre Dame foreign student from Mexico and 

.'this year's co-chairman of "One 'Earth Week," refered t•:> the Inter­' national Festival as a "Night of 
cultural entertainment from around the world:" she said, "The pur­pose for having "One Ea~h vyee,~" ts to promote student sohdartty. 
Although Notre. Dame has enro.I­led over 400 foretgn students thts year alone; Leon noted, "Most people don'-t realize that there are so many foreign students here at 
Notre Dame." She explained that the ISO decided to title this year's week of· a¢tivities "One Earth Week"becatise "Everyone in the 
world lives op just one earth." 
"There may be a Jot of different countries and different cultures," ip' Leon said, "$ut we're all just one people. We want to tie everybody 




%The Observer
here at Notre:.Dame together." According to Leon, the ISO wishes to destroy the myths and 
ad. dept.stereotypes which some Americans may have acquired about for­
applicants to fill positions on the 1978-79 salM eigners and their! customs. They also hope that foreign students who 
staff. Those hired will start in the fall. 
are presently ~ttending Notre Dame will be able to contribute 

These are paid positions offering 
something of their native cultures to the people ,they come into 
excellent work experience • 
cont~ct with daily. 
/ ; 
•work on a commission basis ~you need not be a business 


major to apply schedule an interview: 
their relatives in East Germany. "East Germany's stake in friend­ship is $1.2 billion in loans and $1 billion in trade" with Bonn, Wim­mer noted. 
Both West and East Germany, in Wimmer's opinion, are uneasy with the "Manifesto's" declara­tions seeking actual unification rather than reconciliation. 
Wimmer outlined the history of the "Manifesto" explaining that East Germany initially accused 


Regualr Specials: Mon-Tues 8-11, 25 cent Drafts. Ladies Night Wed. 1f2 price mixed drinks. Happy Hour 4-7 Daily. 
Professor 

meWad 
Tuesday, 11 April 7:30PM 
Library Auditorium 
West Germany of fabricattng the article, but is now actively seeking the authors, who are believed to be "disappointed party officials and dissident inetellecturals,'' within East Germany itslelf. He added further that relations have "cooled considerably" between the two countries since January resulting in the indefinite closing of the East Berlin office of der Spiegel and increased restrictions on travel between East and West Germany. 
interaction that is necessary for a happy university communtiy exists," McKenna said. 
McKenna noted that while the offices of treasurer and judicial coordinator w<luld maintain their past responsibilities, they would also work to develop ways "in which to better serve the students from their own vantage point." 
"All in all, I am quite optimistic about the cabinet and the jobs I know they will do for the Notre Dame community," McKen­na said. "I hope that all interested students will work with the cabinet members in improving and better­ing student government and life here at Notre Dame." 
ite 





Review Needed 
It is unfortunate that the recent mix-up in class officer electionsocnJrred. Not only was it confusing for the students but it tread heavily on the nerves of the candidates. Certainly it demands a review of the election process. 
Class officers are not mentioned in Dulac. At all. The student handbook does state that the Student Board of Commis­sioners is responsible for all campus-wide elections. Somehow this power has been delegated to the Ombudsman for Student Body President and Vice President Elec­tions and to the senior class officers and Student Activities for class elections. All complaints are to be addressed to the election committee. It Is their job to contact all persons Involved and make a decision. The decision does not concern Student Activities, or rather it did not. 
last week, however, not all candidates were available and the decision was made to continue with the election. This was the first mistake. The election should have been stopped after the violation was discovered and the candidates could not be reached for a decision. 

6000 {;VEiliNG, FRJEND5, AND IJ/Uct»t£ 70 THe SECOND ANNIJ4L H/JMAN RI6HT5 AIA/AI?IJS BANQIET! 
serious I v foIks,::::::::=====================================::::=: 
Too Late for Watergate 
=~~~~~~~~~~=art buchwald 
But the balloting continued, leading to the second mistake. Announcing the final election results before the decision to allow off-campus students to vote. If the ballots were tabulated, the election was over and no more ballots should have been cast. 
The worst thing about the second mistake 
is that the final decison was not made by 
the election committee, but by Reid. If the 
final decision is the responsibility of 
Student Activities, then they have total 
responsibility for the election and should 
have made the decision in the first place. 
Delegating the authority of class elec­
tions to the Ombudsman will alleviate last 
week's problems only if they are given 
total responsiblity for the outcome. As an 
impartial group they should be objective. 
But it would be more logical to redefine the 
election process for all campus-wide 
elections and place them under the 
responsibility of the judicial coordinator. This would make the j-board members responsible for manning the ballot boxes. This revision would eliminate the confusion of last '11\teek ald provide a standard 
election pt"'(XESS. 
Half and half 
Dear Editor, 
I was both happy and disturbed by your article in Thursday's Observer headlined "Controversy dominates Gryp's year as direc­tor." I was happy that you gave credit to Tom for his fine adminis­tration. The Student Union was cohesive and united under Tom's direction. Given the difficult position he was put in this is truly an extraordinary accomplishment. His ideas were good, but more importantly, he gave the job a 100 percent effort. 
It was stated in the article that Gryp accused the Observer of inadequate and inaccurate cover­age. I would agree with Tom: The Observer is often responsible for things not clicking between Stu­dent Government, Student Union and the Observer. For example, the title of the article in question implies that Tom's chief accom­plishment was controversy when that is definitely not the case. 
WASHINGTON--In the film classic 
"On the Waterfront," there is a 
very poignant scene in the back of a 
taxi between Marlon Brando and 
Rod Steiger, who plays his brother. 
Brando. a longshoreman, was a 
boxer, and he blames Steiger, who 
is mixed up with the mob, for 
ruining his chances to be a con­
tender by making him throw a 
fight. 
I was reminded of this scene the 
other day when I was sharing a taxi 
with two gentlemen I didn't know. 
They were in the back seat and I 
was in the front, and they didn't 
think I was listening to what they 
were saying.• I was. 
Apparently, one of the men had 
worked for Nixon in the White 
House, though nov. he looked quite 
scruffy. His leather jacket was 
torn, he wore no tie and there were 
holes in his shoes. 
The other man. who I found out later was his brother. was well dressed and wore a camcl's-hair coat and an expensive hat. His name wa:> Charlcv. 
"What's buggin-g you, kid?" Charley said. 
"You know damn well what's bugging me. You kept me out of the Watergate scandal and now I don't have a nickel to my name." "I did it for your own good, Terry," Charley said. "I didn't 
want you to lose your moral 
compass." 
"I could have had a million dollars by now. I knew there was something fishy going on in the White House with Nixon and his crowd. but when I told you about it you said 'Stay away from it, kid. They're up to their necks in trouble and they're going to pay for it.' 
"I remember that's what you said and like a dummy I listened to you. I turned my back on Watergate and look at me now." 
"But kid," said Charley, "I was just trying to keep you from going to jail." 
"I could have done a year at Allenwood standing on my head if I knew what was waiting for me when I got out. If you'd have just let me be part of the coverup. Charley. I'd be a big man today. I could have erased the tapes or deep·sixed the stuff from Hunt's safe or been the bag man for the guys who were blackmailing the White House. Paperback houses would be fighting over me now, I'd be on talk shows and the lecture circuit. I might even have my own radio show. There was a goldminc in Watergate and you wouldn't let me get involved." 
"Okay. so I made a mi!l.take," ' Charley said. "But I only had your best interests at heart. I was trying · to keep you from the agony of going in front of a grand jury and then through a trial. I didn't realize how much money the people involved in Watergate would make or how famous they would become. But at the time I thought the best thing for you to do was walk away from it." 
"You were my brother, Charley. You should have known how big the payoff would be for a Water­gate conspirator. If it hadn't been for you I would now be at prayer breakfasts and in the Bob Hope Golf Classic. I'd be a celebrity and I'd get the best table in a restau­rant. They'd have done my novel as a mini-series on television. I would be SOMEBODY." 
Charley put his arm on his brother's shoulder. "Maybe it's not too late. Why don't you go to the Special Prosecutor's Office and tell them you want to come clean on Watergate? Tell them the break-in was all your idea and that you and Nixon worked out the coverup before Haldeman and Ehrlichman even got in the picture." 
It's too late. The Watergate Special Prosecutor's Office has been shut down." Terry said. "They aren't interested in anybody else confessing. Besides, everyone in town knows I had nothing. to do with Watergate. That's why no one will give me a job." 


'"'KThe Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either imtitution. The news is reported as accurately and as obwctively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions dnd letters are the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community, and the free expression oi varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Ed1tor-m· Ch 1ef Steve Odland Managin~d1tor John Calcutt Executive Ed1tor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Ed1tor Phil Cackley Cor~ Editor 
Jean Powley 'St. Mary's Ed1tor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Monday, April10, 1978 
Why can't the Observer support 
the Student Union and the Student 
Government by acknowledging 
their positive accomplishments? 
Tom Gryp and Dave Bender both had a long list of accomplishments. They worked for the students and sacrificed their time and deserve to be congratulated. 
Keno Ricci 

Sophistication in Oklahoma 
Dear Editor: 
The following is a comment on 

Mark Rust's review of The Turning 
Point which appeared in the April 6 
Observer. 
My objection to a remark you made in your review might seem petty, Mark, when that remark is compared to such blatant and sweeping stereotyping as that of Mr. and Mrs. Ford's letter about Jewish people, published in the Observer some months ago. Never­theless, ignorance in any form is dangerous. and must be refuted. Also. I have a sense of loyalty to my home town. which you so narrow­mindedly deride. 
What annoys me is the pointed rhetorical question, "Would a born and bred Oklahoma City girl handle her new found (sic) sophistication so quickly and effortlessly?" You imply that the answer in ''no,'' that anyone from such a savage waste­land as Oklahoma is obviously a boorish. bumbling simpleton. 
I do not feel personally insulted by your implications, Mark, just as it would not bother me if Billy Carter were to criticize my taste in art. You obviously know nothing about Oklahoma and have based your opinion on cowboy movies, second-rate television shows and Broadway plays. I realize, there­fore, that you cannot be held personally accountable for your mindless drivel. The weak of intellect often hold such popular misconceptions. 
Even so. Mark, I want to go on record as refuting those misconcep­tions. Oklahoma is no longer the 
''I'm your older brother," Charley said. "Are you going to hold it against me for the rest of your life because I made you keep your nose clean?" 
''You ruined my life. I'll always be a nobody. the guy who blew the 'Book of the Month Club' because his stupid brother wouldn't let him get involved in the greatest poli­tical scandal of all time." 
land of blowing dust and stage­coaches. Our main agricultural product is not, contrary to popular belief. tumbleweeds. We have tall buildings. symphonies. motorcars. universities, and McDonald's. We also have plenty of sophistication, thank you. (Give me a c·all some­time; you 'II be surprised to find that I talk with no more of a southern drawl than Walter Cronkite.) So you see. Mark, there is civilized life outside of New York and Indiana. even though you have never travelled far enough from home to see it. 
And finally, Mar.k.l would like to ask you a rhetorical question, since you seem to be so fond of them. You are quick to throw stones at the glass houses of others, but just how sophisticated is your home town, Greensburg. Indiana? 
Karl J. Blette 


'Conspicuous omission' 
Dear Editor, 
I was quite interested in the Observer article (April4) regarding Tongsun Park's contribution to various past and present members of congress. In isolation, even the largest gifts might be viewed as no more than a gift from a friend. However, these funds were part of a widescale effort totaling $850,000 and thirty members of congress. The reasoning for such "acts of generosity" remain an unsolved mysters, though the possibilities have been declared. 
However, there was a conspicuous omission in the list of those ·alleged to have received contributions. One particular member of con­gress, not mentioned, is of special interest to those who vote and/or may work. in the 1978 campaign. To quote the Chicago Tribune (April 4, 1978): "John D. Brad­cmas (D-Ind.): Forgiveness of a $1800 bill for a party, $2950 cash, and a 1970 check for $500." This totals $5250! This sum exceeds the amounts received hy twenty-four of the thirty recipients listed in the 
Tribune's article! This addition of the House majority whip to those "chosen for ravor" h~ Park reveal potential mtluence m.to the highest cschclon:. of ..:on~rcss and our government. 
Let us all join the demand to expedite this investigatiOn and find out why sc much wt'nt to so many who can and do shape our nation's policies. If th.:re was wrong done, 
let  justice pron:cd,  for  all  our  
benefit.  
William J. Kerr  

I ~ 
------~ 

Monday, April10, 1978 the observer ·5 
Collegiate Jazz Festival XX by frank Iaurino 
It was getting past one-thirty in the morning. and even the faithful were beginning to get a bit edgy. It had been two long days of music: two night sessions that went into the wee hours, plus an afternoon band competition. A lot of practicing. Setting up and tearing down. Sound checks. And a lot of worry. Worry that the sound system would cut out during a solo. Worry that a bass string would break. Worry that the number you used to do in your sleep. the same one that came off so well in rehearsal five minutes ago, wouldn't jell in front of the judges. 
Jazz festivals seem illogical to me, for nowhere else does an exhausting experi­ence manifest itself as a musical heaven­on-earth. Everyone is worn to a frazzle: the performers, the technical crews. the judges ... and the fans. But it's more than a physical battle. It's allowing your mind to be toyed with. It's giving up your soul to an army of big bands and combos, letting them bombard you with sound. It's a sound that fills the concert hall and hits you square in the chest, but instead of knocking you down, it lifts you up. 
For the Collegiate Jazz Festival 1978, it was all over but the voting. And the remaining spec•· tors and musicians who half-filled Ste, , Center Saturday night strained for .. glimpse of emcee Dexter 
Gourdin, hoping he'd make his way to the stage and announce the results. 
In the dres'>ing room behind the stage, the decisions on the most outstanding sax player and tite best band award were far from definite. Reedman Lew Tabackin and big band from the New England Conserva­tory, who brought the house down Satur­day night with excellent soloists, full ensemble sound and even a bit of choreography, impressed the judges as well. Consider, too, the Wisconsin Conserveratory combo, of whom local jazz critic (of sorts) Phil Peters said "could go on stage with anyone--even Keith Jarrett-­and hold their own." 
I was talking with Louie Bellson between acts; he was explaining the trouble he was having with the judging. 
"I started out last night keeping my scoring conservative.'' he said. "But by the end of the show, I was putting stars and plus-signs after everybody's name. To­night, I'm up to four and five stars. 
"It's too hard to pick one winner," continued the former drummer with Benny Goodman, Tommy Dorsey, Harry James, Duke Ellington, and Count Basie. "Every­one's so good--they have to be to be performing at this festival. The talent in the universities all over the country is simply astounding.'' 
Gary Adcock. a professional photograph­er who travelled with Maynard Furgeson's band, echoed Bellson's remarks. "Each time a band finishes, you say to yourself, 'Man, I'd hate to be in the next group. How are they gonna top that?' But they do, man, they do!" 
By two o'clock most of the people had filed out of Stepan, leaving the performers anxiously waiting to see if their band would be voted the best.. or even more, if some of the greatest jazz artists in the world w:ould disappointment. 
The thing about the CJF, howver is that there are really no losers. To be good enough to perform in the most ,Presitgious collegiate jazz festival in the country-­maybe the world--takes a winner. To meet and talk with some of the renowned jazz greats: that's a victory. 
"Too bad." said Bell son, "there's only 
one award." 

************ 
With a host of superior bands from all over the country and a half-dozen jazz legends, one has to wonder how Notre Dame's efforts in the program would fare. The ND Jazz Band, as host band. was not invo''led in the competition, but they put on an exciting show. It's amazing how a group composed ~f main!~ non-music majors could hold tts own tn . t_he sa~e league with groups from competitive mustc 
schools and conservatories. 
The real treat came Saturday night, however, when the ND Combo took the stage. The intense performance impressed audience and judge alike, featuring the truly professional Neil Gillespie on the Rhodes piano. Neil is a joy to listen to; he demonstrates a classic flair and style which captivates the listener. 
Let's not overlook the Larry Coryell-type guitar of Greg Shearer, and the dynamic bass of Cedric Williams. Cedric wasn't given much of a solo shot durinP the set, but 
otllers would have choked, Stu took control 
and forged ahead with tight percussion 
work. 

After hearing their performance, I had to 
ask myself why these gents were still at 
this university and not out inaking records 
somewhere (wherever you go to do that 
kind of thing). Of course. that's my 
opinion. biased as it may be . But someone 
else shared my feelings. 
"This band is absolutely 'fantastic!" said 
Louie Belson. "I would just love to get 
these guys in a studio. They play with a 
professional style, the arrangements were 
done with finesse and imagination ... ­
They'rejust a super group! I'd love to get 
them ou record." 
Now, I'm no personal friend of Louie 
Bellson (although I'd like to be). but I have 
a feeling he knows what he's talking about. 
I wouldn't be surprised if the members of 
the ND Combo join the ranks of those who 
played at the CJF and went on to bigger 
and better things: David Sanborn. Paul 
Winter, Randy Brecker, Oscar Brachear. 
Marvin Stamm, Jimmy Pankow, and Bob James. to name a few. The.ND Combo gets my award. For the best. 
************ 
One ofthe most significant observations 
made a the twentieth Collegiate Jazz 
Festival was the incredible amount of 
talent on stage. This is a tribute to the 
many fine jazz programs at major universi­

critic Dan Morgenstern were re-evaluating the finer points of the Ohio State University Combo, a star group of the previous night, and the equally-amazing combo from the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music. Hubert Laws rechecked his notes for the hun­dredth time. Louie Bellson remained cheery and serious, sitting next to his drum set which remained set up after the lengthy judge's jam on Friday. Lar_ry Ridley looked like he wanted to be elsewhere. Pianist John Lewis was mostly quiet. 
A knock at the door: it was the backstage manager. "Guys, we gotta go. The crowd's gettin' noisy." In that crowd were the Ohio State Big Band and combo. Both had put on extraordinary perfor­mances early in the festiva). and many felt they would walk away .with the trophies. They had strong competition from the perennial favorites from Northwestern Universitv and the Festival Band from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Not to be counted out were two of Friday night's bands from Loyola University and the Univer-sity of Iowa. The Medium Rare consider them an outstanding individual musician. 
Backstage was bedlam. The Bun!cy Green Sextet was still mixing with a crowd whcih had formed to the left of the stage. Among them was Fr. George Wiskerchen, the Patron Saint ofJazz, still excited from Bunky's amazing performance. Light and sound crews were ripping up everything in sight, trying to maintain the energy need to spend yet a few more· hours in Stepan long after everyone else ha1 gone home and climbed into bed. Then slowly, from the back, Dexter made his way to the lone mike on stage, a(companied by cheering, whoops, and nervous clatter. 
Silence. Some of the judges filed out of the dressing room. Bellson siarted tearing down his set. One last flashbulb popped. 
"The winners..." Dexter said in his ultra-mellow, ultra-cool, late-nite FM jazz show voice. 
The usual followed. Screaming. Gapping. Time-consuming trips to the stage. Embarrassed smiles. For· some, unbelievable joy. For many others, his performance was technically and aesthetically adept. 
Speaking of adept, there's this guy named Mike Stalteri. Not only did he kick on the tenor sax, but his extended solo on soprano brought the capacity crowd to its feet. Mike hit that magic level Saturday night as he battled with his instrument, and many who heard him will not easily forget his haunting sounds. 
Gerald Law~on, too, was incredible on alto. His solos were too few .for many appetites. Too bad the combo couldn't have played longer, featuring Gerald again. 
The entire set was dedicated to, and one song especially written for, former combo drummer Steve Calonje, who was killed in an auto accident over Christmas. As Neil told the crowd, "Steve's death left a big hole in all our lives.'' That meant, of course, that drummer Stu Monsma had a considerable bill to fill. Although his style is different than his late predecessor's, Stu proved himself quite capable in rhythmically driving the combo. When 
[All photos by Leo Hansen] 
ties around the country, of course. But ·more, it's a tribute to the meaning behind the CJF--the promotion of America's sole claim to musical art. And the CJF does it with class: no hype, no commercialism, just a sincere dedication to providing that special moment when muscian and idea and instrument and sound and audience r ~ one. That special moment called jazz. 
The question was asked of Louie Bellson, 
probably for the thousandth time, "Are the 
big bands coming back?'' 
"You know what?" he said. "They 
never left. Jazz is not dead. You people in 
the universities, you're bringing it back. 
You're giving it new life." 
lfthere were no such thing as the Cotton 
Bowl or the NCAA's, if the .Golden Dome, 
Fr. Sorin and St. Rockne were figments of 
everybody's imagination, let it be known 
that this university took a stand for art in 
America. When I speak of Notre Dame. I 
won't just talk aoout home football games 
and pep rallies. I'll talk about the CJF. 

798 
STEREOLPS STEREOLPS



sa:sgg$11E.S99 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
Now Available at 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
McKenna appoints fire· panel 
by Brlgld Rafferty panelling in student dormitory practical loft policy before next fall, 
rooms. when students beging work on 
A temporary committee for the "We are trying to ·find out just their rooms. study of fire-related problems on why this is a fire threat," explained campus has been established by McKenna, "and to develop a more Student Body President Andy practical proposal to submit to the Election rules McKenna, and includes Mike CLC." 
to be discusseCI
Roohan, John Simari, Mike Gilroy, "Along these lines, we also plan and John Ryan. to devote equal time to seeing how Anyone interested in making 
One of the committee's goals, safe this campus is from the threat suggestions for or discussing SBP­according to McKenna, is to ac­of fire, and to see what Universtiy SBVP election rules, revisions, or quire a more practical loft policy. officials should do about the situa­additions, please contact Marc The group hopes to get in touch tion," McKenna continued. The Woodward, Ombudsman Election with Notre Dame administrators committee will also look at state Committee Chairman, at 3338. and Fire officials to discover the and Federal fire codes for informa­An appointment will be set up for reasoning behind the recent tion. the Discussion or presentation with change in the University loft policy, McKenna noted that the commit­the interested person and the which entails stricter enforcement tee's work will probably progress election committee. The deadline ofthe DuLac rule against construct­more quickly in the next month, for contacting Woodward is Thurs­ing lofts, partitions, and putting up with the goal of obtaining a day, April 13. 
'SrunENT UNION ACADEtvfiC COMMISSION~ 
The History of Sex in the Cinema by Arthur Knight 
WRITER FOR PLAYBOY MAGAZINE MONDAY APRIL 10 7f1J PM Libnny Auditorium 





Would u 
sign up fqr a . ·leJime 

course 1n aPPlied 
C-ristia~ity? 
I 
I 
I 
\ 
\ 
Our course will tcike you deep into the Third World, to some of the most depressed and oppressed places on earth. 
I 
To God's Country\ As a Maryknoll Missioner, you can share the love of God with these, His people. You can bring them hope;and peace and dignity. You will practice some very practical Christianity, too. You might set up adult education classes, show a starving farmer how to improve his crop, or a struggling worker how to improve his lot. Most of all, you will share the Gospel of Jesus Christ. You will learn and ke~p on learning the rest of your life. You will learn and share their language, of course. B~t also their culture, traditions and, yes, their religion. You will learn the quality of joy that can only come from doing unto others, because all the while you give yourself to their lives, they give meaning to yours. Send us the coupon or call toll free (800) 431·2008. 
r~---~----~--------------------------~~1 
I Please fell me more about a lifetime career as a Maryknoll Missioner. 
II Maryknoll .Missioners 
peop~e who give their lives for people 
I DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS • Maryknoll Missioners • Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 
I Dear Falller 1 I Please send me lnlormatiqn about becoming a Maryknoll 0 Priest 0 Brother 
. II Name _______;_ ______. 
I Address __ _ 
I1 City___________State____________Zip Code,______
l Age__Phone,________·Ciass______________ 
I College,____________Year of Graduallon ------­
L ______ 




Alcohol Awareness Week set 
Molly Sullivan, Phoenix House Support for the various activi~ie.s
by Boney McHugh representative, ''Double Stand­was given by the ND/SMC admmt­
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ards-alcohol, The Case in Point." stration and faculty, local bar community will sponsor the first According to committee member owners, beverage companies and annual Alcohol Awareness Week Kellee Nash, these activities will such organizations as the Student from Monday, April 10, to Satur­enable students to clarify their Organization for Alcohol Preven­day, April 15. values and realize the serious tion (SOAP), and AA, an organiza­
The program was initiated by Dr. consequences of alcohol abuse. tion for alcoholics' families. 
Kathleen Rice, SMC dean of Stu­"We're·hoping that students will Students are encouraged to at­dent Affairs, and a group of understand the harmful physical tend the events during this week. interested and concerned students. and psychological effects of drink­Particular consideration has been The purpose of the program is to ing," states Nash. "Perhaps a given to those under the age of 21. make students aware of the need permanent club or committee could For further information, contact for responsible drinking. be formed to be of service to the Mary Ann Daly (4508) or Kelleei 
According to Andy McKenna, students at all ti~es." ,Nash (4409)\ ND SBP, and Gail Darragh, SMC SBP, "The Alcohol Awareness For st~ Mary's fund 
Program is essential to the well being of the ND/SMC commun­ity." Both feel that alcohol abuse 

Phon-a-thon begins
is a problem which cannot be solved until fully recognized. This Pellettiere outlined the proce­
by Pat Payne
week's activities marks the first dure explaining, "Each night for step in determining a solution. Saint Mary's third annual phon-two hours, 15 phones will be Some of the events featured a-thon, one component of the manned by students, area alumnae during the week include presenta­college's annual fund raising activi-and faculty, and calls will be placed tions by local businessman JoseJ)h ties, will take place for three ail over the nation for donations Hickey, "Success and Alcohol"; consecutive weeks this month in from alumnae. Last year, 49 per­Dr. Bambenek, SMC chemistry the LeMans rectangle. Terry cent of all alumnae contributed and prof~ssor, "Morning After"; and Green, director of the Saint Mary's we're hoping for an even larger Fund, and Development Commis-percentage participation this sioner Julie Pellettiere are coordi-year," she stated. Over 6000
Mormons sponsor nating the project, which has a set people are expected to be St. Mary's CDC announces
goal of $40,000, 30 percent higher contacted. than last year's goal. As an added incentive, students
Bulla Stled film Monday night hours
The purpose of the phon-a-thon, will be allowed to make one free according to Pellettiere, is "to long distance phone call anywhere
on 1800's relfgion The Saint Mary's Career Devel­trained R.A. volunteers and stu­
bridge the $1000 gap between in the United States to anyone they 
"The First Vision," a film des­opment Center will be open from . dents are encouraged to take
tuition paid and the actual cost of choose. 
cribing the religious excitement in 7-10 p.m. tonight and all Monday advantage of these extended hours. 
attending school here." Pellettiere stressed that students the U.S. in the early 1800s, will be Pellettierrecontinued, "The total should take a particular interest in nights until the end of the Students are directed to enter via 
shown tomorrow evening at 7:30 semester. the LeMans lobby. 
national goal of this year's fund the phon-a-thon, because the 
p.m. at the Bulla Shed. According to Center coordinator, 
raising activities is $200,000, and amount of money raised will direct­The film centers on a young man $130,000 of that has already been ly affect the annual rate of tuition Betsy Twitchell, these new times 
will give students an opportunity to who could not accept the inconsis­donated." increase. "Students may be a little use the facilities in the evening as · tencies among the religious profes­Unless funds are earmarked for more enthusiastic if they are aware well as during the day.
sors of the day. His faithful search specific purposes, they are placed of this fact," she added. 
The Center will be staffed by
for the truth brought him to a direct in a non-restricted fund and are Pellettiere observed, "This is an confrontation with God. used wherever needed. "The exceJient way to keep in direct money can be used fot school contact with the alumnae to remind 
"The First Vision," produced by supplies, faculty salaries or even them of their appreciation for the Bike storageBrigham Young Univerisity, has utensils in the dining hall," Pellet-four years they spent here." been widely acclaimed for its tiere noted. Students who have not volun­pickup plannedspecial effects in portraying this The phon-a-thon will run from teered already are urged to turn in confrontation in a very realistic 7-9 p.m. this Tuesday through their forms indicating the night or Students who stored bicycles for. manner. Thursday, and again from April17 nights they wish to participate in the winter may pick them up today 
The film is sponsored by the to 20 and April 24-27. In addition, the phon-a-thon. Forms may be from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at Gate 14 of O ~ Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-on Apri119 and 20 the hours will be submitted to Green at room 104 the football stadium. Students are ~<;; day Saints and everyone is invited extended to 11 p.m. specifically for LeMans or dropped in an on requested to bring their claim slips • ~ to attend. calls to the west coast. campus mailbox. with them if possible. 

·~ ----------------------------------~-----­
1, SS1AED 
Cookie monster: ATTENTION: ND-SMCgirls. Sign up for\ NOTICES Watch out for those chocolate chip the women's division of bookstore bas-~
cookies. ketball will begin Aprii1Q-14. Cal Betsy 
Pop and corn 41-4214 (2:3o-4:30). Also, we needI Need ride for one lovely girl from volunteers to ref and keep score. Call 1 I Pittsburgh and back for An Tostal 13 lithe, young women neeeded to Amy 41-5710 (11-11:30 pm). 
weekend. She can pay, she can drive, complete Kevin Me's Birthday harem. 1 I and she Is good comapny! Call 6734. Finger cymbals and naval jewels provid-A FACE ONLY A MOTHER COULD FOR SALE Two rooms for rent zsummer school ed. Call 3041 to apply. LOVE! Vote Grizz Nellist UMOC 1 TYPING DONE session $40 mo. 233-1329. (Biech!). I
I REASONABLE RATES Bill Rdogers, Frank Shorter beware; only CALL8086 1974 Flat, 128, blue AM-FM, rust FREE RENT-Furnished apt. All private four days until Donald Charles Nokes, Jr. DISCO LESSONS: Hustle, swing, waltzI proofed, just turned, fun to drive. , 3 rooms for married Grad student All arrives in Boston. and more now being taught, call Mark 1 I Dissertations, maunuscripts, Typed. 277-ooo3. utilities, near Memorial Hosp. NO RENT Thompson 272-2976 between 5-6 only! IBM Selectric 11. Linda's Letters, for helping two people in wheel chairs. To whoever I stole abeer from at the Bull 1 I 287-4971. Universal Zig-Zag sewing machine. Does 232-9128. Moose party: Please accept my humblest Gina: We like short people. stretch stitch and other fancy stitches. apologies. I owe you a Lowenbrau. 5'5" and 5'6". I I Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call Great condition. Make an offer. Call WANTED Tim "Scoop" Sullivan. 287-5162. 6734. PS: Are you happy now? Ted Eichelberger: I 
The end is near. Beware and takeI FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL AND USC Neeed: 2girls for summer housemates. Joe, warning. We are all out to et you. I FOOTBALL: UCLA KETUCKY AND Call 4-1-4034. How could I forget the most Important Society LOST AND FOUND MARYLAND BASKETBALL PICTURES date in U.S. History? Happy 22nd! I
I 
FOR SALE. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED Help wanted -Temporary part time. Love, Mary Beth Whatever Happened to 1011 Flanner?I MATERIAL AT A LOW PRICE. CALL Select your own hours. Great Pay and An anxious admirer 1 
LOST: Blue NO jacket at Nickles. DOUG AT 8982 OR STOP BY 318 ZAHM short hours in public contact work Free John Kennedy Fund: Give your S: Especially, L.aemmlel That doesn't Reward. Name In jacket · explaining HVD programs to homeown-donations to: mean I forgot you, Steve. I
I 
USED GOLF BALLS UKE NEW. $20.1111 ers. Call 234-3344 or 233-6939 leave Chip Scanlon, Cl1alrman 
FOUND: A pair of wire wrimmed glasses per 11111. CALL 272-417113. message for Dick. Wally Robinson -OC Hide the women and the children. The I
I in brown leather case. Call Bob at 1694. Sue Grace-Farley five amoebas are about to be unleashed. 
l LOST: Navy blue tote umbrella at Sr. Bar ;:~~~·s$900Cutlas~7 ~3 shape. A-C. OEVERSESoAStJhOABS: Su_mm~, ~eaf.1°~~~a Mary Walsh-BP On March 18, 1978, Timoth~ John I 
· · ht 1 h · · 2-G55 · urope, u maenca, us ra 1 ' ' c 0'111 O'Br1'en. younger brother of athew
on Sr. Women s mg . ave someone etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly , ahrlle Fischer-1 on I
I elses black umbrella. Please call me If expenses paid, sightseeing. Free lnfor-Marla Treckelo-Lemans O'Brien (a bartender at Bridget McGu­1you have mine. Alicia, 8117. FOR RENT mation _Write; BHP Co. , Box 4490 , Barb Raynor-Holy Cross SMC Ires and an NO Student) was killed In a I Dept 14, Berkely, CA, 94704. Fran Dwyer -SMC Supervisor tragic automobile accident In tribute to
1FOUND: a key with key to Grace Hall. Bob Smith South Dining Hall his loving memory a memorial scholar-Probably lost during blizzard. Owner will Two completely furnished houses for rent Need ride to Chicago area _ westerm Merce Haley-Lyons ship has been set up. To help us get this I1have to identify key ring. Bart 1078. this summer. A couple of blocks from suberb _This thursday 4•13after 4 pm. Dave Wisnieski-Polish Rep fund off the ground, Bridget McGuire's Is i 
I 
campus. Safe neighborhood. One four Call Denise 4.1-4833. Jeff Carpenter. Pangborn running asoec1111 FOUND: Set of 2 keys found before bedroom and one six bedroom. Aprox. '~"' Vepi Santoni -HC All drinks han priCe. All prOIIII will break. Call Observer office to identify. $100 a month. 277 Bring JK to NO. Give often!. benefit the Fund, so ..._ come and 
I 
3604 PERSONALS ...­I LOST: one Texas Instrument calculator The five amoebas are mans best friend. party for agood cause. SR-11 In or near LaFortune on the Wed. Fine house In good neighborhood [Par-There Is no stopping the five amoebas. Where; Bridget's I before break. Reward offered....call tage and Angela area]. Reasonable An Tostal Is coming! All talented When; Tues., Apr1111 233-7213. rents. For 4-5-or &students. Contact Joe Eddie L. The whole world loves aclown. Impersonations (or those who think they T_lme; 7-10 pm. II Gatto 234-66811. Love the whole world. are) register now for impersonation. Call ·----------­I 
1 
LOST: One haig ultra 3 Iron on 17 on K.S. at 4-1-4677. Rich Little Beware! BEWA"'E ..0,_ Burke last weekend. 1am on the golf FREE RENT plus salary In exchange for Bill, " " team and need It desperately. Call Jay housekeeping work 4 days per week, to Congratulations on MBA school. Love, Jude-Not every girl can catch a skier. SMC Freshman are on the lookout 1:.; 1738. younp married couple without children. Nanno, Ann and the six pack. 'f!:....fOIA!T tO:oo-1:~~
~mhman. ....!! 
Furmshed 4 room apartment. call Haircuts, Trims, styles, cheap! SMC ,...... ' """'• 1 '"'''1FOUND: Pocketwatch 4-3-'78 on south 289-1264 or 289-3629. Get ready for the 5amoebas. 4530 Betsy. Center. 
I 
quad. To Identify call Tim 1161. Wanna gr? And~ Fresluna .1 Walk to campus. Home close to Logan Margaret McGlynn: Pat Gunning reads Personals! I, 
LOST: Pearl ring In gold setting In the Center for rent this fall. Enough Congratulations on achieving your Bill: Rock last Saturday evening. Call Trlcla bedrooms for 5 or 6. Water Included In dream. A special force was with you. SMC Freshman: Congratulations! 7850. rent. Furnished. Nice. Call 232-3815 Besides I knew It all the time. Buy those formal tickets NOFW-only .-.mseand Company \ after 5pm. Your""lllgll' $6.50. I
_:___ 
ZE£5 t' 



8 
the obsanrar Monday, April1o, 1978 
Notre Dame: nine take two, lose one 

by Brian Beglane Northwood answered right back single with one out. Bill Starr did Sports Writer in the top of the fifth when Kevin likewise to advance Pullano to Savard scored on a throwing error second. Montagano stepped up to Jim Montagano homered once for the first run off Irish hurler bat with two outs and no room in and knocked in all three runs to Mike Deasey. Tom Trimble then the official scorebook for an ele­lead the Notre Dame baseball team singled home Champagne for ·venth inning. An extra page-was 
to a 3-2 extra innings win over Northwood in the sixth to knot the not necessary. Northwood yesterday afternoon at score 2-2. 
The freshman from Elkhart,
Jake Kline field. The win was the Bob Bader singled for the Irish in singled the to
Ind., up middle 
second game of a doubleheader, the bottom of the seventh but could 
enable Pullano to cross the plate
with the Irish capturing the first get no further than first base, as with the winning run. Montaganocontest 6-4 for a clean sweep of the the game went into extra innings. 
wound up two for four in the game series. These two victories push Irish starter Mike Deasey lasted plus a sacrifice. Karpowicz took 
Notre Dame's record up to 8-7-1, until the tenth inning, when Joe 
the win while Sharkey was the loser 
the first time it has been over the Karpowicz came in to take over the for Northwood. 
.500 mark since March 24. mound chores. Deasey pitched a The Irish were hitless after three fine game, giving up eight hits and 
Earlier in the day, the Irish downed Northwood 6-4 off the
innings of play in the first game, one earned run while walking only with neither team on the score­one of the 36 batters he faced in 
pitching of Mike Bobinski. The Irish collected five unearned runs
board. In the fourth Tom Caruso nine innings. 
Mike Sharkey replaced North­in the third inning to gain thegot on base thanks to an error by 
victory. Pullano went three for
Northwood shortstop Jack Cham­wood starter Allen after eight 
three plus a walk to lead the Irish at
pagne. Montagano stepped up to innings. Allen gave up only four 
the plate. It was Bobinski's first
the plate with one out and Caruso hits and struck out four. on first. Northwood was threatening in 
win. The 6-1, 190 pound freshman the tenth inning, getting runners On Friday the Irish lost to Bethel catcher blasted a Bill Allen pitch on first and third with only one out. 5-2. Tom Caruso had a solo home over the left field fence to notch the The visitors then attempted a run in the losing cause while Joe first home run of his career and double steal, but Irish catcher Leahy suffered the loss for the give the Irish a 2-0 lead. Mark Montagano wisely held onto the Irish. Notre Dame will meet Kelley then singled and reached ball to nail the runner at third. Western Michigan i~ a road when Mark Simendinger got on Karpowicz struck out the last batter doubleheader Wednesday before •• ;: . l base on an error, but neither • to end the inning. returning home for a 1 :00 Saturday 
Tom Caruso provided ND's only firepower in Friday's loss with a solo runner was able to advance any Rick Pullano started things off afternoon twin-bill versus Ball homer. Kelly's crew bounced back to sweep a doubleheader onfurther as the rally ended. for the Irish in the tenth with a State. 
Sunday. 
Player earns green jacket
*Observer
y.-AUGUSTA,Ga. AP-Gritty Gary the same one that won him the until he missed the 18th green. Player, saluting his birdie putts 
American National championship then failed on a 10-to 12-foot with a raised, clinched fist of sheer 
last year in Tulsa, Okla., to tie and par-saving putt that would have an send the championship into a given him a tie.• He shot 69. And
exultation, cut out incredible, 
playoff, now a sudden death affair Funseth, playing with Watson and
record-matching 8-under-par 64 to claim a third Masters golf champ­
and one of Player's pet peeves. well back of Player, had a birdie Green hunkered over the ball in a putt of 15 to 18 feet on the final hole ionship Sunday. Player, now 41, donned the




Sports 
hushed silence -then broke his to tie. He finished with a 69. stance and backed off. He flashed Armstrong, playing in his first
green jacket and happily shook the 
a boyish grin at the gallery and the Masters. and Kratzert. generally
hand of old friend and golfing foe 
national television cameras then regarded as one of the most
Arnold Palmer when Hubert Green 
settled in again with his ancient, promising of the young players on
backed off from a short birdie putt, 
green-handled putter. the PGA Tour, were next at 280.
then missed the three footer that 
And he missed. Kratzert shot 69, Armstrong 68.
would have sent this storied old 
Green finished with a round of Nicklaus made his move too late. 
event to the sudden death play-off.
Tracksters improve 
The muscular little warrior, who par 72 and a tie for second at 278 One stroke over par after two abandoned his habitual black attire 
with Watson and Funseth. Watson rounds, Nicklaus finally found hisby Frank LaGrotta Spieler filling the remammg two who last year conquered Nicklaus, putting touch over the last 18 and
for lighter colors in the heat of a
Sports Writer spots in the mile relay. Dennis humid southern spring day, ac­had a share of the lead with Player ·shot a 67 for a 281 total.
VanderKraats has qualified in both 
quired his third Masters champion­
The Notre Dame Track Team the lSOOM and the steeplechase 
ship and ninth major title of his
traveled to Charleston, Illinois on with Steve Welch in the 1500M 
career with a 72-hole total of 277,
Saturday to compete in the Eastern rounding out the Irish crew of 
Spring scrimmages begin 
11 shots under par on the 7,040­
Illinois Invitational Meet. The Irish running qualifiers. Perry Stow and 
yard Augusta National Golf Club
took on Western Illinois and the George Matteo will be Notre by Ray O'Brien sive outing was freshman Jim 
course.
University of lllinois in the non­Dame's pole vaulters at the meet. Sports Editor Stone. The fleet footed halfback
It was one of the most thrilling of 
scoring tri-meet and they emerged carried the ball nine times averag­
all Masters, an event that seems to
from the day's competition "quite The Fighting Irish football play-ing better than six yards a carry
have a corner on drama.
well" according to Irish Coach Joe Women take third, ers got in their first hits of the while breaking several long runs.
Green, defending champion Tom
Piane. spring season Saturday against Another dependable runner was
Watson, veteran Rod Funseth,
"I was extremely pleased with, Merra tops fielet each other in the opening scrim-senior Pete Pallas who got the
Jack Nicklaus, WalLY Armstrong,
what I thought. wa!) a really solid mage. The gamelike conditions "Workhorse Award" for carrying
Bill Kratzert and Australian David
performance by our team" cited by Kathy McCann provided the opportunity for play-the ba1120 times for over 100 yards.
Graham all made moves for the
Piane. "We ran well in most of the ers to get in shape for the annual "Pallas has been around awhile
victory. But, one by one they faded 
events and it seems we're improv­The Notre Dame Women's Track Blue-Gold game and allowed the and knows what he is doing."
and failed. 
ing with every meet." Team finished in a strong third coaches to search for replacements praised Devine. "We can always
The last to go was Green, a
Irish bright spots included Dan place at a 7-way meet at Purdue on for those seniors not returning. depend on Pete to give a steadyHorgan's first-place 9:15 time in Sat., April 8th. The women, with a 3-shot leader at the end of 54 holes In two hours of a cold, windy practice."the 300M steeplechase, and Perry total ofSS'h points, beat Northwes­and a front-runner most of the day. afternoon the second team offense Three freshmen quarterbacksStow's height of 15.5 feet in the tern, Taylor, Marion, and St. Green, the last man on the golf and defense went at it with some of got a chance to direct the offense pole vault event, also good for a Jospeh's, finishing behind Chicago course, lashed a gorgeous ap­the younger starters also seeing during the scrimmage. Tim Koegel 
first-place. Geroge Matteo grabbed Circle and Purdue. Competing proach shot from his crouched, action. started the action and was impres­third place in the pole vault with a with a team of 16, this marks the unorthodox stance and marched up "We are not deep at some· sive throughout the afternoon con­15-foot vault. best performance by the women the hill to the 18th green to the positions," explained Devine. "We necting on seven of ten passes for 
Notre Dame was well-represent­this season. applause of milling thousands. It did not have many of the seniors over 100 yards and two touchdown ed in the BOOM run as Jay Miranda Kathy Merra had an outstanding was a shot reminiscent of the scrimmaging because we wanted to drives. Koegel teamed up with Tytook first with a time of 1:49.7. performance in the SOOOm run with approach on the 17th that secured look at some other people." Dickerson on four of those aerials Oose behind was Chuck Aragon, a winning time of 18:48.4. The Player's last Masters title in 1974. While the long scrimmage offer-including a 17 yard touchdown who took second with a 1:49.8. 2-mile relay of Helen Weber, He had that little putt, just about ed the less well known names a strike. Peter Burger finished fifth with a AnnMarie Peirson, Merra and shot at standing out in a crowd, few Mike Courey engineered the time of 1:52.3. Arnie Gough's 14.6 Maggie Lally, also nabbed a first, players responded to the early most effective drive of the day in the high hurdles event was also at 10:44.5. Mary "Hummer" season opportunity. Nevertheless, covering 70 yards in 12 plays noteworthy, according to Piane. Hums took a close third in the the action got many players into the capped by a four yard jaunt. He
Gervin tops mark,
In the one-mile relay (1600M) the javelin with a throw of 110'7''. game condition as Devine com-had trouble thereafter completing Irish foursome of Kris Haines, The depth of the tracksters in the mented, "I thought, considering it only two of twelve tosses for 32 Chuck Aragon, Kurt Spieler and distance events was made evident wins scoring title was our third day out, that we got a yards. Greg Knafelc saw limited Jay Miranda ran over five seconds by their performance in the JOOOm lot done; not that what I saw out action completing one of his five better than they had ever run run. Claire Delahunty, running in New Orleans [API -George there is what I want to see later passes. previously as they finished the race her first meet ever, finished 4th at Gervin of the San Antonio Spurs set on." Overall it seemed that the 
with 3:15.5 showing on the clock. 12:11.3, followed by Liz Berry and a National Basketball Association This year conditioning will play a offense had the early season jump"A really great job." pointed out Adelia Malvezzi. Maggie Lally record by scoring 33 points in the big part in Notre Dame's success on the defense as many youngIrish Assistant Coach Ed Kelly. took another 4th place in the BOOm second quarter of Sunday night's as several of the fastest players faces saw time on the defensive "Chuck Aragon's 47.5 leg was run with a time of2:31.0. Lynn Van game at New Orleans against the from the defending National side of the line. However, Devine t; ·rcellent. He really brought our Housen ran a 65.7 400m dash to Jazz, beating by 1 point the record Championship squad will be lost to was not ready to make any off the dn ~down." finish a close 4th, while team-mate set only hours earlier by David graduation and injuries in areas cuff judgments this early in the 
A::. 'l result of some fine individu­Donna Schaeffer finished 6th at Thompson of Denver (who finished with little depth could be tragic. spring. "When the weather gets al pen ·-mancesJ Notre Dame will 66.4. Both the 880-yd. relay, the game with 73). "We just are not fast," said warmer we will be able to work be send1·1~ eight men to Philadel­consisting of Kathy McCann, Gervin had 53 points at halftime Devine. "Some day someone will harder. A lot of teams are workingphia on Ma, 19-20 for the ICAAAA Eunice Sullivan, Mona Thoms, and and by the middle of the third accuse Notre Dame of being fast on Sundays and it is not a bad idea Meet. Compding for the Irish will Donna Schaeffer; and the 440;yd. period he had scored 59, the and I hope I'm still alive to hear since many players have late be Chuck Arag~>" and Jay Miranda relay, a team of Schaeffer, Van number he needed to beat out it." classes on Tuesdays and Thurs-in both the BOOM and the mile Housen, O'Haren, and McCann, Thompson for the NBA scoring One player that showed bursts of days. Right now we just need a relay, with Kris He~ines and Kurt • finished in 4th place. champi::mship. speed Saturday in a very impres-little patience." 





