......." 
'. 
Faculty votes for -'informality' 
by Dave Rumbach Senior Staff Reporter 
The Faculty Senate last night unanimously approved what one member called "a step in the right direction' 'towards informalizing teacher-student relationships. 
In response to an appearance by Mark Huard, a student member of the Campus Life Council, the Senate gave its Stu­dent Affairs Committee "blanket authority" to " do anything it deems helpful" to improve the present situation. 
Huard sought endorsement from the Senate for a proposed arrange­ment with the dining halls which would allow faculty members to eat lunch or dinner with students four times between April 1 and the end of the semester. Huard stressed getting students and teachers out of the "structured" classroom and establishing "an informal basis for friendship." 
Acting on a Nov. 3 request by the Senate, Prof. James Dougherty presented a joint committee pro­posal to "formalize" the group of faculty advisors used by the Pro­vost in making recommendations to University President Theodore Hesburgh concerning tenure and promotion decisions. 

The proposal, which would have specified the members of the 
"advisory council" to the Provost, was soundly defeated by the Senate in two separate votes. 
According to the proposed amendment, the advisory council to the Provost on matters of promo­tion and tenure would have been composed of the following: the deans of the various colleges, the Law School, and the Freshman Year of Studies; the Vice-President for Advanced Studies; the Asso­ciate Provost; and five tenured faculty members 
The proposal grew out of faculty concern with an amendment to the Academic Manual which specifies the advisors to the Provost only as "such . . . as he may choose." Formalizing--by specifying its make-up--would make the council' a meetings a matter of University record. 
Dougherty, chairman of the Senate Administration Committee, urged passage of the proposal before the appointment of an permanent Provost. "It is my feeling that now is the time to do it . . . to do it in another year would be a reflection on the personality of the Provost." Dougherty stated. 
Prof. John Lyon opposed the proposal because it would have created "another group which the tenure candidate must pass but without the accountability of the 
C.A.P. (Committee on Appoint­ments and Promotions)" 
One Senator criticized the pro­posal, stressing the importance of ''keeping the working frame of the Provost as uncluttered as pos­sible." "An effective Provost will take these freedoms anyway, and if he's a poor one, this will help neither him nor us," he stated. 
In other business, Katharina Blackstead, chairman of the Fa­culty Affairs Committe, announced that the proposal aimed at increas­ing job security for faculty mem­bers classified as "special profess­ionals" was currently being re­worked. Blackstead informed the Senate that the policy in question was being recon~idered by those special professionals within each department with "goals of remov­ing some of the vagueness while preserving the flexibility.'' 


'More than a small raid' 

Israelis attack guerrillas in Lebanon 
TEL AVIV [API -Israeli forces with the Israelis." There was no sign in Lebanon day, Israeli soldiers and equipment of Israel." crossed into Lebanon last night to Sources in Washington said that that Syrian troops, which make up moved northward. Israel customarily does not an­wipe out Palestinian guerilla bases the U.S. government had learned the bulk of the peacekeeping forces Israeli's announcement said its nounce details of cross-border op­along its border. Guerilla spokes­earlier of "big troop movements, stationed there since the civil war forces did not intend to harm the erations until they are completed, 
men in Beirut said tanks and planes weapon movements" toward the truce late in 1976, had joined the population, the Lebanese army or and news of military activities i.s were attacking and gunboats were frontier. "It sounds like much more fighting. Arab forces keeping the peace after subject to heavy censorship. standing by to join the assault. than a small raid," one high-level The sounds of fighting drove the recent Lebanese civil war-"but Diplomatic sources in Washing­
An Israeli military communique source said. Israeli border villagers into bomb only terrorists and their helpers." ton said Israeli intelligence had officially called the border crossing In New York, the PLO permanent shelters for the night. Armed civil It said, "The objective of the received reports prior to the opera­a "mopping-up operation," not U.N. observer Zehdi Terri said the guardsmen at Shelomi and Baram operation is not retaliation for the tion that the PLO was planning merely retaliation for a weekend Israeli incursion "might escalate patrolled the dark streets. Troops terrorist crime, for there can be no further terrorists strikes within terrorist attack in which Palestini­into a full-scale war." He said the battled a few miles away across the retaliation for the murder of inno­Israel. Sources in Tel Aviv said an commandos killed 33 Israelis. United States must share the border fence. cent men, women and children, but yesterday that interrogation of the 
An Israeli radio reporter at the responsibility for such an eventual­As far south as Tel Aviv, about to protect the State of Israel and its two terrorists who survived the front said long columns of tanks ity because it supplies Israel with 75 miles from the border, jets and citizens from incursions of mem­Saturday raid indicated seven more were crossing the 40-mile long "weapons, money and moral sup­helicopters roared overhead. bers of Fatah and the PLO who use Palestinians were on Cyprus plan­border into Lebanon, their way lit port." Throughout Monday and yester-Lebanese territory to attack citizens ning another attack. by flares dropped by jets. He said a heavy Israeli artillery barrage pre­Spring break not extended ceded the attack and Arab gunners returned the fire, bombarding some Israeli settlements. 
Energy cutbacks may remain
CBS News described the opera­tion as the largest since the 1973 Middle East war. by Kathy McEntee 14 percent reduction in campus definitely be installed in all colleges made the final decisions 
A Palestinian spokesman in Bei­energy usage. classroom buildings by the fall. on specific building curtailments. rut said guerilla defenders met the Spring break will · not be Installation of these devices in
The University is currently The University power plant is
armored assault with fire from extended an extra week as an cutting back consumption by about Hayes-Healy will begin "as soon as also capable of using oil and gas.
bazookas, heavy machine guns and energy conservation measure, 23 percent. This amount is even the necessary starters arrive," but coal remains the principal fuelmortars. "We are trying to stop according to Fr. James L. Riehle. 
more than was necessary to adjust Riehle stated. during the winter months. Riehlethem every yard of the way,'-' he C.S.C .. director of energy conser­when Indiana and Michigan Other emergency cutbacks will stated that the school is "doingsaid. "We are using every weapon vation. However, Riehle noted, Electric Company, which supplies be eliminated when the coal crisis what it can with what it has got."
we have." other energy cutbacks that were 25 percent of the school's power, passes, which according to Riehle, Hee added that ''recent warmerThe cross-border operation came instituted at Notre Dame during was forced to reduce service by 40 means when the coal miners return weather has been helpful." The on the same day as a condemnation the coal strike may become percent. to work. One such curtailment is University cannot use gas becauseof the terrorist raid by President permanent. 
"When we first made some of the darkening of the spotlights on it is not being given any. 
Anwar Sadat of Egypt-whose peace "As far as we're concerned." 
the "Golden Dome" for the first The heavy reliance on coal,talks with the Israelis have been 
explained Riehle, ·~we see no For news about time in history. Similarly other 
coupled with predictions of a stiffopposed by the PLO. 
necessity for closing down school or office, classroom, corridor, and
He called on all factions in the missing any class days due to the the progress of the lounge lighting which has been hike in coal prices, has led 
Middle East to break "the vicious University officials to believe that
energy situation.'' Riehle admitted 
circle of action and reaction be­national coal strike, reduced by 25 to 75 percent will next year's fiscal budget will be
that such a move might be 
return to normal when the 
cause it will lead to nothing." severely affected unless reductions 
<:Onsidered if Saint Mary's was see page 3 emergency is alleviated. 
Saudi Arabia said yesterday it are made permanently. Riehle
forced to close because the closing 
"condemns terrorism in all its In response to student com­estimates a $500.000 increase in
would have an effect on co­these cutbacks, we already plaints about certain cutbacks (for fuel costs for the University nextforces. Those who have committed exchange classes. But Riehle considered them permanent,"
it on innocent people inevitably instance, the turning off of the year, which he notes will amount to 
dismissed that possibility as noted the energy director. Riehle Architecture building lights at $700 per student. "With a halfdraw counter terrorism on other ·"remote." cited the removal of 8500 lightbulbs 11:00 P.M.), Riehle explained that million dollar increase, we caninnocent people." 
from the Memorial Librarv as an
Riehle pointed to anticipated the inconviences were not decided make additional reductions."
David Hitchcock, a spokesman 
example of one such measure.
increases in the cost of energy, by his energy committee. After a added Riehle. "but then someonefor the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv, especially coal prices, as the cause Since light timers recenJ first meeting with this committee, has to pay, meaning a possibleindicated the Americans were not for continuing recent emergency installed in O'Shaunessy we 4t which representatives from tuition increase." A Universitytaken by surprise: "I won't say we 
curtailments. The conservation found to reduce usage an estimat aery building on campus were
had advance knowledge of this, but committee is currently analyzing 
measures should amount to about a 25 percent, similar timers wi ...-:sent, the deans of the various
we have been consulting constantly the impact of fuel cost considera­
tions on the budget. Riehle termed student response to the coal emergency as "pretty good." Today Riehle expects to receive more detailed information on energy savings during the past weeks, which he feels will enable his office to better assess the effectiveness of recent cutback measures. Meter readings have compiled for sixty buildings on campus. Those taken during February and the first two weeks of March wifl be compared to figures from the same periods last year. Rif1hle states that he is eager to see this data and feels that the findings should be "very, very informative.!' 
0 
YOU CAN FOR.­

0 
WHM:SGOIN& MR.SECR£1AR.Y! GEiT NCI?MAL. fA/ElL,
0 
ON fXJIJJN ON 7HI3 SOCIALIST PROCaJIJREI ~NCRALL't
z 
rn 
TH£3 FLOCR, REPfJBLIC OF.. PHREO! fA/&~ MSH(}(}T V!C7lJR? TOO FAR BACK A LOT! 
TO BEN0­
m I 
1/C&O/

c ) 
~ 
YOIJCAN 
ALSO IJSE a< IAJ?JTG 
AFlAKE! t;,=s 
\ TH1V/AkFJ<5. 
I 


Wednesday, March 15, 1978 
the observer 

,_News Briefs----............ NIPSCO searches for leak Summer applications due today 
FORT WAYNE-Employees of Northern Indiana Public Service by Dan Letcher companies interview this late, but our strong admissions policy along Co. (NIPSCO) were searching for the cause of a natural gas leak in this year we have 23 companies with the continual growth and downtown Fort Wayne last night after a small explosion caused Summer internship applications coming in and employers are leadership characteristics seen in evacuation of two buildings in the area. No injuries or serious are due in the Placement Bureau continuing to call in for dates," our students attract employers to damage was reported, but officials closed off a portion of the Office no later than 5 p.m. today, Willemin noted. Notre Dame." Willemin remarked. downtown area as a precaution while crews tried to determine the according to Placement Bureau As possible reasons for the Federal and summer internship source of the gas. The explosion took place outside the Genera] 
Director Richard Willemin. strong push by employers, Wille­programs can serve the student as Telephone Co.'s main office. 
Willemin also stated that "students min cited confidence in the econo­either a summer job or career trial should sign up sometime this week, my and an acceleration in the program. These programs are and no later, for job interviews the consumer goods area. He also open to juniors, seniors or grad
week after break." conjectured that employers were students returning to school in the Willemin stated that there is a light in their recruiting last year fall. Willemin emphasized strongly 
WASHINGTON-Four previously undecided senators declared 
Senators declnre positions 
great increase in the number of and "need to catch up this year." that "the opportunity is there, the their positions on the Panama Canal treaties yesterday as backstage 
employers holding interviews dur­Employers need people to interested student just has to get maneuvering continued for ratification of the pacts. Both Georgia 
ing the first week of April. increase their staffs. and they are the papers in." Democrats, Sam Nunn and Herman Talmadge, supported the 
Employers are searching primari­coming to Notre Dame because, as The placement bureau is also treaties, as had been expected. Sen. William Roth, R-Del., 
ly for liberal arts, business and Willemin says, "employers can get available to any student needing or produced a mild surprise by lining up with the opposition. Sen. 
engineering majors. He agreed quality people at Notre Dame." He desiring career advice. The Richard Schweiker, R-Pa., opposed the treaties, as anticipated. An 
that the increase is an indication also stated that companies get a student is asked to call the informal count by the Associated Press showed the opponents with 
that the employment climate is "double-barrel action" here with placement bureau (8342) for 34 votes • the number they would need to block ratification when the 
strong. "Usually only three or four both highly qualified male and appointments or just stop by for first of the two treaties comes to vote on Thursday. The same tally 
female.applicants. "The quality of information. gave the proponents 64, three short of the totaJ they would need if aJI members were present. 

Amnesty group : : 
Flynt in critical condition 

seeks support • • 
ATLANTA-Larry F1ynt, the Hustler magazine' owner who was gunned down during his obscenity trial, fell back into critical The Notre Dame chapter of • • condition and was placed on a respirator yesterday, his doctors Amnesty International (AI) is cur-reported. A statement from Emory Universtiy Hospital said F1ynt's rently seeking support of efforts to • • intestinal bleeding had been controlled, but his breathing had release Soviet dissident Anatoly • • become a problem. 
Sharansky. • • Sharansky, a leading figure in the Jewish emigration movement • • who had been working to ensure • •

Weather 

Soviet compliance with the human • • Goudy through tomorrow with fog and a slight chance of rain rights clause of the 1975 Helinski • Spec,·~, 1001 o· •changing to snow today. Lows tonight mid to upper 20s. High today 
Accords, was formally charged u 10 ISCOUnt low to mid 30s. Highs tomorrow mid to upper 30s. There is a 20 
with espionage and treason in June • O A II M h d. • percent chance of rain or snow today. The extended outlook for of 1977. Sharansky's trial has been i. n ere an ISe To Notre Dame • Friday through Sunday calls for dry and warmer weather. Low teens 
postponed indefinitely, and he is I and low 20s rising to 20s and low 30s by Sunday. Highs 25 to 35 
presently being held in Moscow's :e & Saint Mary's Students. e rising to 45 to 55 by Sunday. 
Lefortovo Prison. /e ee••••••••••••e e e e e eee
In February, AI sponsored a · lecture in the Library Auditorium -/'1f1f1tf1tf1tf1tf1tf1tf1tfJtf1tf1tf¥1tf1tf1tf1tf1tf1tf1tf1tf1f1tf1f1fJti.Jtf¥•¥¥¥¥¥¥*
,_On Campus Today_ _. 
by Sharansky's wife Avital entitled* St p tt ' D lt 3:30pm cardinal o'hara lecture, "perspectives of mideast 
"T~e Fat.e of Dissi~e!lts in the * • a y S ay • • • • • • • • 
lt 
Sovtet Umon." Her vtstt was part lt lt univ. sponsored by college of bus. adm. mem. lib. 
peace initiatives," dr. m. cherif bassiouni, depaul 
of a nation-wide effort to seek us* means 1 ~
.ts Ml"ller tl"me
support for her husband's cause. lt ...­
aud. 

AI requests that concerned indiv-: : iduals participate in a letter-writing ~ lt 3:30pm film, "trial of aaron burr," sponsored by nd law 
~~mpaigndirectedatS~lVi~tauthor-•Thursday March 16th At the Ll"brary• 
school, rm. 110, law bldg. 
ttles. Letters should mdtcate the lt ' lt writer's support of efforts to re-lt • 
5:15pm fasters' mass, celebrated by fr. joseph sidera, esc, 
lease Sharansky and request that lt 7 1 0 so~ p•t h . lt 
his parents be allowed to visit him, : -pm I C ers for 30 mmutes :
walsh hall chapel. ~~~~he has not been seen in over a: 75~ Pin a Coladas 75~ StraWberry DacquirieS: 
6:30 pm meeting, sailing club, led by commander donald p. 
Those interested may write: lt lt condit, 204 eng. bldg. 
Anatoly Sharansky, Post Office Box •1 o~ glass of green O'Miller beer 12-12:30am, * 
201, Moscow, USSR; General Niko-lt lt 7 pm meeting, ham radio club, 12th floor of grace. 
lei A. S~holokov, Mini~try of Inter-: Sponsored By : 
nal Affatrs, The Kremlm, Moscow, lt lt RSFSR USSR; or Secretary Gener-lt St d t U • S • I C • • lt7,9,11 pm film, "play it again sam," starring woody allen, 
a] Leonid I. Brezhnev, The Krem-* u en nlon OCia ommiSSIOn * sponsored by amnesty international, ens. aud. S1. 
lin, Moscow, RSFSR USSR. *-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Jf¥JfH¥¥¥¥¥Jf¥¥¥Jf1fJflt 
7 pm lecture, "childrens' rights," by tom bertone, lyons 
Sunshine Promotions
Fasters' Mass 
hall kitchen. 


Dame Student U
tonight in Walsh
7:30pm american scene cultural series, "multi-cultural, 
multi-ethnic diversity: the melting pot reversal," 
Present
Fr. Joseph Sidera, C.S.C., will
prof. broden, nd. at carroll hall, smc, public invited. 
..:elebrate this week's Mass tonight at 5:15 in Walsh Hall 7:30pm concert, st. joseph high school band, o'laughlin 
chapel. A doctoral candidate in 
auditorium. 

psychology, Sidera resides Moreau Seminary. 7:30pm seminar, dr. cherif bassiouni, sponsored by bus. adm. 121 hayes-healy, for grad. students and 
Wade McCree, 
faculty. ' 
Solicitor General, 
7:30pm concert, dave mason with bob welch and toeman kress, ace tix $7 & $6. 
to speak today 
The Honorable Wade McCree.
8 pm films, six of buster keaton's best films, sponsored by 
Solicitor General of the United
nd film society, 232 moreau hall, smc, no admission 
States. will speak at 3:30 p.m.
char~e. 
*The Observer 
Tonight's Theme: Florida! 
[with apologies to Bob Brink] Night editor: Joe "Sunshine" Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Sandy "Outa Luck" Colson layout Staff: John "Spring Training" Dondanville 
Features layout: Rosemary "Beach Baby" Mills Sports layout: Paul "Lauder­dale" Stevenson Typists: (beach Bums) Sue Scribner, Rich Clarzio E.M.T.: me 
Day Editor 1om "Daytona" Nilsson Copy Reader: Jerry "Copper­
ltone" Perez 

tomorrow in the Law School 
Lounge. McCree recently argued 
two widely publicized cases in 

Supreme Court: the Bakk 
"reverse discrimination" case and

Deposit needed 

the Attorneys' advertising case. All undergraduates and Pre-Law
for Senior Trip Society members are invited to ~oecJaJ GLest attend.
The $50 non-refundable deposit for the fall ND-SMC Senior Class Trip to Southern California will be due after break. Full cost, including air fare, hotel, rental car 
and  footbal  ticket,  will  be  
approximately  $280.  For  more  
information,  call  Lisa  Morel  at  

4-1-4849. 

In addition, any Notre Dame junior interested in being Trip chairperson should apply at the Office of Student Activities by March 31. 
BOB WELCH 
The Observer 11 published Mon· 

dey through Frtdey except during also CLOVER 
exem end v~tlotl periods. Tile Observer Is published by tile students Of Notnt Deme lllld Selnt 

WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 -7:30pmMery's College. Subscriptions rney be purdlued for 120 per yeer (SID per semester) from The NOTRE DAME ACC Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notnt Deme, lndlene 46556. Second 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 ~ $6.00
clen postege peld, Notnt Deme, lndllllle, 46556. The Observer Is • member of 

On Sale Now at Student Ticket 
tile Anocleted Prell. All repro­

dudlon rltllts.,.. reurvecl. Office and at ACC Box Office 
------------'----------'---------~----_._. -. 


Wednesday, M"arch 15, 1978 
the observer 

Tentative agreement reached in coal talks 
Washington [AP] Bargainers for the United Mine Workers and the coal industry agreed yesterday on new contract terms that both sides hoped stubborn miners would ac­cept to end their 90-day old strike. 
UMW President Arnold Miller summoned his union's bargaining council to Washington, and a spokesman said the group was likely to vote tonight on the tentative agreement. 
"We think we have a package that would be very good for the union, very good for the country, and get our mines back to work and the country on its feet," said Nicholas T. Camicia, chief industry bargainer. 
"1 think we've got a good agreement," said Miller, although ·he declined to predict whether the union's rank and ftle membership would ratify the proposal. 
The union's ratification process normally takes about 10 days and Miller said he wouldn't rush the process. Under the union's consti­tution, if the bargaining council were to vote Wednesday, the earliest rank-and-file miners could vote would be Monday. 
The council rejected one tenta­tive proposal on Feb. 12, and the rebellious membership voted down a proposal sanctioned by the UMW leadership more than a week ago. 
Both sides are pinning their hopes on approval by the miners to avert the possibility of further federal intervention and to pre­serve industry-wide bargaining. 
The Carter administration hailed 
the tentative accord. 
Hesburgh addresses freshman honor students 
need for students to strive for 
by Kate Niland quality in whatever they chose to 
do, both now and in the future. 
Approximately 350 freshmen Secondly, he emphasized the were honored last night for need for compassion toward fellow academic achievement in a convo­students and especially toward cation ceremony held at the Center those less fortunate than those at for Continuing Education. Notre Dame. 
The freshmen were designated Finally, he urged students to as members of the Dean's Honor make a commitment to someone or List for the fall semester of something-Logan Center, tutoring. 1977-78. All achieved grade-point or any university organization. averages of 3.4 and above. He concluded by emphasizing 
Following the recognition of each again the need for each student to student individually, Fr. Theodore be a "Good Samaritan" in his own Hesburgh, University president, way and congratul~ted the students spoke to the students about three on their accomplishments. important things they should gain The ceremony was followed hy a from an experience at Notre Dame. brief reception in the CCE lounge 
First of all, he stressed the for the students, Father Hesburgh, importance of competence '!nd the and Freshman Year staff. 
ND Glee Club to tour Mid South cities 
On Thursday, March 16, the mington, Del. (24); Baltimore, Md. 
Notre Dame Glee Club will begin (25); and Sharon, Pa. (26). Other 
its annual Spring Tour. The tour non-concert stops will include 
will take the singers through the Atlanta, Ga., ahd Washington, 
Mid-South and Mid-Atlantic states. D.C. 
All members of the Notre Dame 
Concerts planned include those l.n community are welcome· to all the Huntingburg, Ind. (March 16); concerts and should look for Nashville, Tenn. (17); Bristol, Tenn. publicity relating to the concerts in (18); Charlotte, N.C. (21); Wil-area publications. 

White House press secretary Jody Powell said President Jimmy Carter was "pleased and encour­aged" by the tentative agreement. 
Negotiators announced their deal as miners by the tens of thousands continued to ignore a federal back-to-work order. The Justice Department, meanwhile, continued to pursue a policy of non-confronta­tion in enforcing the order issued under the Taft-Hartley Act. 
Justice Department spokesman Mark Sheehan said the government still is scheduled to go to U.S. District Court in Washington on Friday to argue for an 80-Q.ay cooling off period under terms d the Taft-Hartley Act. 
But he said the Justice Depart­ment probably would agree to seek a 10-day extension of an existing restraining order if the UMW and coal operators agree to such a move. 
The White House said the 151 mines that were shut down last week are now open. Most of them are non-UMW mines, according to Powell. / 
Negotiators for the two sides in the long and bitter strike met for a littlemorethan three hours in a final session before agreeing to terms. 
It appeared that both sides made concessions, although the Bitumi­nous Coal Operators Association seemed to give more. 
Sources said that under the new proposal miners would still be required to pay a portion of their health care costs, but the sums would be far less than was called for under the contract miners rejected a week ago. 
Sources also said the industry gave up its long fight for at least limited contract controls on wildcat 
strikes  but  won  some  form  of  
productivity incentives.  
Sources  said  the  contract  in­ 

cludes terms requiring miners to pay a portion of their health care costs but the sum would be far less than was called for under the contract that was voted down a week ago. 
benefits would be guarenteed, and medical benefits would be provided in many cases from company-run insurance plans rather than the present independent fund. 
Sources said, unlike the rejected 
~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
~~~~ THE SWISS ALPS 
r 

\~\\ Eiger to the Matterhorn on foot. 2 & 3[\\\l;:;: weak backpacking expeditions.amongst :;;:; :;:; jagged peaks and breathtaking wild ;:;: ;:;: flowers of Switzerland. Mountaineering ::;:; :;:: Instruction and guided ascents of tha t;:;: ~:~; Matterhorn and other major peaks also ;;~;j ·:·: avallaba. ·:·:• ;:;: Brochure: Earth Journeys, Ink Inc. l;:~ :;:; Dept. c., 34011 Peachtree Road, At-:;::: 
l,,:::~,::,<=>>K««~"XJ 
proposal, the new contract does not Bituminous Contractors are negoti­contain so-called "labor stability" ating a separate agreement to language giving companies the cover an estimated 14,000 con­right to punish · wildcat strike struction miners. leaders. One industry spokesman said the 
Other contract terms include two sides still have "some basic provisions for productivity incen­gut issues" to resolve. "We have tives, pension boosts, and five-year some tough bargaining ahead of health benefits for widows of us," said the spokesman, who miners. asked not to be identified by name. 
Even if the miners accept the Talks between the UMW and the contract, it would not necessarily ABC have been in recess since the assure an end to the strike. The UMW rejected the main contract UMW and the Association of proposal more than a week ago. 
In addition, health and pension ,..-------------------------
.......--...... 
Corby's Spring Break 
Party Tonight From 9-3 
Gin & Tonics 50" ea. 3Draft Beers-$1.00 
Prime Up For St. Patrick's Day Mar. 17, Friday morning al 8:00am 
4Drafts for $1.00 Shots of Irish Whiskey 25" ea. 


FTEI ClllEIE. 
Army ROTC can help you develop two career opportunities after college. 
First, Army ROTC gives you two years of practical management training and leadership experience while you're still in school. Extra credentials that will set you apart in the civilian job market. 
Second, Army ROTC offers you a part-time leadership opportunity as an officer in the Army Reserve or Army National Guard. That means extra inrome. management responsibility, community involvement. 
Two careers. For details. contact: 
Maior .John L MacNeil Room 236 in the ROTC Building or call 6264 -6265 -7332. 
THEHIYIIR 
TID·YUI,_.. 
F8l Til-UFE. 
,._.~ 


the observer Wednesday, March 15, 1978 
Dining haiii.D. machines removed 
by Aim Galefl Senior Staff Reporter 

According to Terry O'Leary, director of SAGA food services in the North Dining Hall, the compu­terized J.D. checking machines installed in the dining halls at the beginning of this semester "simply · are not capable of handling the type of work we give them, and will not be used in the future." O'Leary revealed that the machines will probably be repla~ed by a different type of computerized machine. 
The machines installed at Notre Dame were "somewhat experimen­tal," O'Leary said, in that they use a method of reading the computer­ized information on the card that has never been tried before. 
"At other universities where computerized systems are usea, they have experienced problems with frayed J.D.'s getting stuck in the machines because the cards have to be pushed through a slot past a stationary reader,'' he explained. 
The machines installed in the Notre Dame dining halls were designed to eliminate this problem. Thus, the computer reader used in the machines has a movable floa­ting head that is pulled across the inserted J.D. card by a motor. 
"The movable head has been effective in solving the problem of 
I.D.'s getting stuck, but unfortu­nately it cannot read the informa­tion and convey it to the computers well enough for our purposes,"· O'Leary stated. 
O'Leary said that a machine like the ones used by Marquette and other llLniversities has been shipped to NotJre Dame and is expected to arrive today or tomorrow. This machine will have a stationary rather than a movable head so that the I.D. card will have to be pushed through a slot by a checker in order for th(~ information on the black band of the card to be read. 
"The new machine will be tested in one of the dining halls this week, and if it works, we will hopefully have t~ight machines like it in­stalled by the time the students return from break," O'Leary sta­ted. He added that he has worked with the new type of machine before and has found it "much more reliable than the system presently installed here." 
The company from which Notre 
Dutch marines free host~ages; Moluccan terrorists arre~;ted 
ASSEN• Netherlaada (AP]­

Dutch marines in a two-pronged 
assault yesterday overran a 
building held for 28 hours by South 
Moluccan terrorists and freed 70 
hostages at the moment the 
gunmen had threatened to start 
executing them. 
"It was a very easy operation," 
said a government spokesman. 
No one was killed in the 
20-minute attack mounted by 60 
anti-terrorist marine commandos, 
under fierce covering fire by 
sharpshooters on nearby rooftops. 
Thief stole for dying wife 

CLAYTON, MO. [AP] -Melvin Wagner, convicted of swindling his boss out of nearly 5100,000, says he did it to buy nice things for his wife because "I knew she was going to die, and I wanted the last two years of her life to be happy." 
Wagner, 58, who was convicted on Jan. 24 of operating a phony company to steal $97,000 from a soap products plant, said he began the operation after learning in 1973 that his wife, Lea, had terminal cancer. 
On Monday, St. Louis County Circuit Court Judge Jmaes reddy sentenced Wagner to eight years in prison but then reduced the sen­tence to five years' probation. 
''There was one reason for it and one reason only: His wife way dying,'' the judge said of the theft. "He had worked for the company for 37 years and was booest before his wife's illness. He stopped the theft after she died." 
Wagner said be spent most of the money on his wife, paying for vacations, a luxury automobile and other gifts. the couple had two grown children. 
Wagner, who was warehouse foreman at the soap pro6ucts plant, devised a complicated scheme in which he set up a dummy company, A&G PaJiet Co., that submitted low bids for wooden casings to the soap firm. 
By doctoring the paperwork, Wagner made it appear that the dummy company had gotten the contracts, and then filled the orders 
from the company's regular inven­
tory. 
Ruddy said that after Wagner's wife died, "It appears he was desirous of getting caught. He later raised the prices so the company would reject the bids. I guess that's when they got sus­picious." 
By the time he was caught, Wagner had spent the· entire sum, and wa~ paying the remaining debt on an $8,000 automobile he bought before his wife died. 
Wagner still faces legal action from the company's insurance representatives, who want to regain the stolen money. And the Internal Revenue Service says it wants tax paytnents on the money· Wagner was convicted of stealing_. 
But officials said a 40-year-old man died Monday when the three terrorists occupied the Drente provincial government complex in a wooded suburban park of this northern\ Dutch city. 
Three hostages were slightly 
wounded yesterday and another 
was badly wounded by the 
terrorists, who were arrested. a 
government spokesman said. An 
official said the gunmen carried 
"light arms.'' 

"They're free, they're free," a 
marine officer yelled into his radio 
as the marines secured the 
building. four stories of concrete 
and glass colored blue and gray. 

"I think we were all very lucky, especially the hostages," said a policeman. The released captives. shaken but smiling, were escorted to an emergency aid center set up at a skating rink nearby, prior to precautionary sessions with psy­chiatrists and reunion with their families. 
The marine unit. 100 strong in all. was the same one that stormed a train and a school near Assen last summer to end 20-day twin sieges by another band of Moluccan extremists and rescue more than 150 hostages. 
That terror incident turned many Dutchmen against the South Molucc:ans who came to live with their former colonial ~asters here when their homeland -also known as the Spice Islands -became part of independent Indonesia in 1949. 


Young militants among Hol­land's 40,000-strong Moluccan community have terrorized this country periodically for a decade, trying to prod the Dutch into intervening with Indonesia for South Moluccan independence. 
Indonesia also is a former Dutch colony, but the Dutch government says it can do nothing to aid the Molucc:an cause. 
In this case, the terrorists originally threatened to start killing their captives at 2 p.m. yesterday if the Dutch did not meet their demands: the release of 21 comrades jailed after the terror action last summer and one in 1975. a plane out of the country with some of the hostages, and a $13 million ransom. 
But Justice Minister Job de Ruiter. speaking to parliament in The Hague after the siege ended, said the gunmen early yesterday demanded two Moluccan com­munity leaders be sent in as go-betw·eens, and told the media­tors of a new deadline. · 
We Need More Singers!!! 
Auditions are still open for our produdion of The Mikado. Contact Speedl and Drama offim, 284-4141 for audition appointment ---R1r1al Callback will be 
March 15. 
Those intere!•ted in the positio~n of 
Judicial Coo1rdinator 
for 78-79 contact Steve Dane at 1559 or leave your name with the the Student Go,vernment 
Secreta~'· 
Dame ordered the machines buys different parts from different man­ufacturers "just as someone who is putting together a stereo system buys the turntable from one store and the speakers from another," O'Leary explained. Thus, the com­pany purchased the reading end of the system from one manufacturer and the computer end from ano­ther, he said. 
"They tried to put together the best of both worlds, but one of the worlds, the reading end of the system, simply was not good enough," O'Leary stated. He add­ed, however, that the computer end of the present system "is very good and has worked well so far." 
O'Leary stressed that none of the machines have been paid for yet. "We don't have to pay for anything until we find a satisfactory sys­tem," he said. · 
O'Leary remarked that despite all the problems that have been encountered thus far in the installa­tion of a computerized system, he still believes that the system "will be a good investment in the long run since it will provide us with information valuable for planning and controlling food costs." 
Give blood 
Residents of Zahm and Stanford are reminded to give blood today and tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 11:15 
a.m. and from 1 p.m. to 3:15p.m. in the infirmary. 
Thursday March 16 
ay 
Fisher 
Happy Hour 
At The 
library 


''~If~ fOR onrnm~ 
ToTAllY DIFFERENT f 





~ ~ 
MA~I~INES, &x>KS, ~STCRS, Jf\KENSc, CUS101V\ T-Sl-\1 RTS, ::fetvELRY., (£Ati-\E~ &,ooD5 AND orHc~ 'i'PJ.It 5w!T! 
~A 1UfALl'f DlfFElie.E"ruT 5\-\0f>P'I\Jh 
t)<P€RIENCt; iR~ ~IE!! 
~{3/HB~ MISHAWAKA 
()P5"N MQI'J.-9\T. 10 -q 6LJN · I :l.--(o 


the realm of art 
Powerful Portraits 
Photographs that transcend mere photo­journalism and enter into the realm of art; powerful portraits that document, and indeed, cry of immediacy, yet somehow imply an enduring aesthetic value--such is the nature of W. Eugene Smith's artistry, some of which is on display this month at the University Art Gallery. 
Gene Smith is, in the words of Popular Photography writer Arthur Goldsmith, "a Rome plow of photojournalism: a super bulldozer cutting swaths through the jungle of human complacency and indif­ference. He needs big themes." 
Finding big themes never posed much of a problem for Smith, who spanned the globe from the South Pacific to Pittsburgh to capture images that ranged from mercury poisoning to suffering and pollu­tion, in his unique and immortal style. 
"In the first two photos of the Univer­sity's display, one can clearly see the documentary style of the photojournal­ism," remarked museum curator Steve 
N­
-.. t.n 
m
-
......
-5 -.J::
,_ 
00
E Qj ·­
V) 
'» E 
s:::: _,J.. ·­
'» .. 
:::sa-. 0
LU 
~ 
tn
~ 
c
:::s"\ 
0
-Q 
.8 ·-c 
0..
0
...:::: 
.B: 6 "' 

~-~..........~..._.......-._,..__..._...~ ..............................~..........--..__...~...--................................. ........~.................__..................~...............~..,..~~~~..-.~.. 
The Impact of HHarlan ~ County, U.S.A." 
greg solman 

Spiro on Smith's World War Two photo­graphs depicting soldiers on Saipan," but as the series progresses chronologically, I think you can more easily see Smith's sensitivity to form and style, until, in his later work, the photographs almost become abstract in design--almost for the sake of design alone." 
"It is this balance of his social concern and his formal sensitivity to photography that makes Smith's work unique and very nice." 
The exhibition at the University Art Gallery, organized by the InternationalMmum of Photography at George Eastman f!:ouse, presents selections from photographic essays on Pittsburgh, Dr. Albert Schweitzer in the "Man of Mercy" series, migrant workers, Welsh miners and Japan. In each, Smith's incredible power to evoke emotion is evident, and even to the untrained eye, one immediately recog­nizes that Smith's work does indeed surpass the simple documentation of news events. 
susan grace 
whether he could afford to deny his children food in the name of the coal miners' cause. 
The lack of objectivity may, however, have been appropriate to the issue, at least for me. I tend to be completely secure in my life here, where the fulfillment of my basic needs is taken for granted, and I am left free to deal with the luxury of other kinds of problems. Perhaps it is appro­priate that I be overexposed to Harlan County for this two hour period, under the assumption that uDless my sympathies are greatly aroused, I will find it alltooeasy to forget that the problem exists, will neglect to examine and develop an opinion on the issue, and refuse to take responsibility for it. I must admit that I am a part of a system that does not allow for the effective expression of grievances, that perpetuates a state of living and working conditions that should be a national as well as personal cause for shame. 
In other words, I have to let the story the film told strike my conscience as well as my mind and my heart. My initial reaction to the film as I walked out onto the South Quad was to just not talk about it, to forget 
' ,it-an easy wasy to deal with it. But I should be,made to think about it, and to talk about it.' and to address its reality. "Harlan C\ounty U.S.A." strove to stimulate that :kind of a dialogue, and the fact that 2800 ~le here sat to see it attests to its succes:<>. Maybe now, before I complain ~nit the sacrifices I have to make to conserve the energy the coal miners produce, I'll remember why the ACC is closing early, and why the hot fudge machine in the Huddle is cold, and why our old illuminated golden dome now recedes into the dark of the night. 
-...:::: 
,_ ~ 
E ·-lj 
V) 
L.. aJ
'» (I) 
s:::: ..
'» .. 
a-. .J:: 
:::s 00 
L.L.I L.. 
::l 
~ ..0 
t! 
~ 
Q..·­
..
~ 
.. 
.8 E
0
...:::: 
~ 
-..9: 


Last week, twenty-eighth1r .:lrect Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student~. faculty and administrators, waded over to the En­gineering building to watch the award winning documentary film, "Harlan Coun­ty U.S.A.". I was among them. The object of the film was to relate the histol'} and reality of the coal miners' struggle to attain the right to unionize and to lead safe and decent lives. I was a typically naive subject for its purpose. I was interested in the issue, but never had taken the initiative to explore it-unless, that is, one can call the addressing of a few casual questions to whomever happened to be sitting next to me at dinner an active concern for the issue. 
I went into the film in the state of ignorance, expecting to be presented with a sensational appeal to my sympathetic emotions. I was surprised. The movie appealed more to my mind than to my heart. The potential for a tear-jerker was there-the viewer was exposed to the wretched living and working conditions of the American coal miners and their families, to the filth, hunger, hazards and desperation of the people. Those problems lie at the core of the issue. Their existence evidences a deprivation of basic human rights that has, throughout the twentieth century, incited the coal miners to rise in protest. 
But for me, this was not the focal point of the film. It was directed at what happened-or did not happen-when thf! workers did stand up to demand action in response to their grievances. I was struck by the apparent futility of the demonstra­tions, by the length of time it took to make any kind of progress, and by the small m11gnitude of accomJ?lishments.to-sbow for 
months of fear and sacrifice during the 
strike. 

, I was struck by the immense personal 
and political obstacles working to thwart 
the miners' right to "strike. 

I was struck by the methods of protest the miners resorted to in order to create awareness and incite action-the same rnethods they have had to use for seventy years. over and over again, to be broken as a coalition over and over again. The most effective scene in the film for me showed a woman, who had been a hard, cold and strong figure in "the club", breaking down in tears while telling of the pain her family endured throughout its history in fighting the miners' rights. She was broken-her family had been broken by their power­lessness in a situation that left them ignorant of what rights they could claim for themselves, and of a method to effectively and peacefully claim them. 
I was struck, too, when I realized that I had to look again at the de~ee of objectivity the issue was being present.?.d in. It was not objective. The director was somewhat critical of the miners' decision to carry guns on the picket lines in protecting themselves from the scabs, but real attention was never given to the objects of their anger, the scabs themselves. There was one brief interview with a frightened strike breaker, but it didn't a.ttempt to bring to light the anguish those men must have been feeling in breaking the picket line. It didn't allow them to explain w.~1y they violated the strike, why they. -niight not have agreed with the strikers' Jbethods in violating other peoples' right§<; .:.bile claim­ing their own, in chastisifng a man for exercising his right to dc~de for himself 
> 
.-A---il> 
Of particular note are Smith's seven photographs from the "Pittsburgh" series of 1955-57, an essay on which Smith was supposed to have expended most of his energy. These photos depict urban blight. And, as in much of his other work, the images may sometimes seem repetitious in theme--an exploration in "depth rather than breadth." 
This has been a trademark of Smith's S~Jle. Goldsmith writes, "By the very nature of the subject, he is limited to a narrower spectrum of events and environ­ments, a claustrophobic nightmare, in effect...but their cumulative weight, and the impact of some individual images, is overpowering.'' 
Smith, who worked for Ufe and News­week during the span of his career, is probably best known for his series entitled "Minamata," after a fishing village in the south of Japan that was laid waste by mercury poisoning in 1971. The poisoning of Minamata Bay, which effected the fish and later the villagers, wks caused by the dumping of waste products into the bay by the Chisso Chemical Company. 
Smith's camera captured the torture of tke inflicted people, who lost their motor control, speech, consciousness and even­tually life to the so-called "ugly" disease. 
Nothing measures the power of an essay more clearly than the consequences that follow its publishing. It is therefore significant that the Chisso Company felt so threatened by Smith's power, that they hired strongharms' to beat Smith, perman-_ ently impairing his vision. 
"He grabbed me ana &~eked me m the crotch and cameras, then hit me in the stomach," recalled Smith. "Then they picked me up and dragged me out and slammed my head against the concrete." As Popalllr Photography noted in relating the story, such is not done to still a small voice, and Smith remains somewhat of a folkbero in Japan even to this day. 
Unfortunately, the Minamata series is 
not here on display, but parts of one of his 
Japan essays is present. This series, too, 
is sterling in composition. 
Smith's work is not completely domin­
ated by man's shady side. One brilliant 
example is "A Walk Through Paradise 
Garden," which is an amazing silhouette of 
two children, band in band, seemingly 
entering the'Garden of Eden. 
It was the first post-war picture Smith 
attempted, and seems a vivid visual 
representation of the author's war-cor­
respondence catharsis...an expression of 
the dawning of a new age. 
"According to a story about him," 
related Spiro, proudly noting that the 
picture has been recently purchased by the 
University Art Gallery, "Smith said, after 
be had taken the picture, that he would 
have quit photography had this particular 
picture not turned out the way he wanted it 
to." 

Many would argue that it couldn't have 
turned out much better. Smith obviously 
agreed, to a certain extent at least, and 
continued his work forever seeking small 
ethereal strength to, as he put it, "criticize 
and illluminate and give compassionate 
understanding." 
"I doubt that existence of any perfec­
tion," writes Smith, "Although I am for 
trying the rise to this and would take 
measure from such failure rather that from 
the convenience of a safe but mundane 
success.'' 

Explosions cause gas leak; lead to short evacuation 
STEUBENVILLE, Ohio [AP] • Cloud~ of toxic chlorine gas, un­leashed by explosions and fires at a downu.. •n chemical plant, sent at least .-'!! f1ersons to hospitals yester­day aJ.. prompted the evacuation of about 2,000 persons, authorities said. 
Officials in the city of 28,000 said a nine-square-block area was evacuated. The people were allowed to return to their homes late yesterday. They were asked to keep their windows open for at least five hours to disperse any fumes. 
At least 25 of the victims were 1ospitalized for observation. The Rest were treated and released, hospital spokesmen said. Most vere firemen, including Fire Chief IJernard Bickestaff, who was re-
Fernandez to speak in Law Lounge 

Raul A. Fernandez, of the Uni­versity of California at Irvine, will .discuss the economics of the US­vtexico border today at 7 p.m. in he Law School Lounge. The talk is ;ponsored by the Mexican­\merican Graduate Studies 'rogram and is open to the public. At the California school Fernan­ez has been associated with a )rogram in comparative cultures, as well as the schools of social >cience and humanities. He is .:urrently working on a study of ~tate planning in Colombia; the method of absorption of Colombian lomestic industries by foreign nonopolies and the effects of the !974-75 US recession on Latin­
·\merican countries. 


ported in satisfactory condition in Ohio Valley Hospital. Police Chief George Mavr( mati!; was treated and relea•.-<.!d. Both suffered from inhalat ·n .·f the fumes. 
AbPul public and parl'chial schools w.:.:u: evacuated. Co;trail halted all trains through the ci Y• 
Last month, eight people -vere killed when a railroad tanl!~llf­derailed and ruptured in the Fll'­rida Panhandle, spewing chlorine gas across a highway. 
Steubenville Mayor William Crabbe ordered downtown streets cleared for fear the chlorine fumes would spread. He ordered all available police, fire and rescue personnel to the site of the blasts. 
Red Cross spokesman Terry Hosfelt, said the victims--many of them firemen--were overcome in the first hour after the explosion, 
which  occurred  shortly  before  
noon,  and many  just fell  in their  
places.  

"We lost 15 at a shot. It was just like somebody shot them," Hosfelt said. 
Hosfelt said the victims com­plained of breathing difficulties and nausea. 
He said authorities told him there was one major and several smaller explosions at the National Colloid Co. and the Famous Supply co., a heating company. 
National Colloid president Mi­chael J. Barber said he was not at the water chemical company when the blasts occurred. 
"Two girls working in the office said they heard a strong hissing noise and the wall came out," he said. 
He said the company is distri­butor for "hard"chemicals such as chlorine. 
Allen Franks, a spokeman for the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, said that at the time of the explosion there were 20 cylinders of pure chlorine gas atNational Colloid, weighing 150 pounds each, along with 30,000 pounds ofHTH, which is a 70 percent chlorine mixture put in swimming pools, and unknown amounts of sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid and soda ash. 
~r4 die in Argentine prison riot 
EIUENOS AIRES* [AP] -Inmates at Argentina's largest prison attacked guards and set fire to bedding and furniture yesterday and police said 44 persons died and 30 were injured seriously before the riot was crushed. 
It was among the worst prison riots on record, surpassing the death toll of 43 at New York's Attiica prison in 1971. 
P'rison officials said the dead were asphixiated as flames spread through a cellblock housing 161 men at the crowded Villa Devoto prison 10 miles northwest of the city center. 
Hut J."esidents near the highwal­led prison said they heard gunfire and explosions during the uprising, which broke out at 6:20 a.m. (8:20 
a.m. EST) and was reported under 
control at 9 a.m. (11 a.m. EST). Police said guards were among 
J-board head applicants needed 
Persons interested in applying for Judicial Coordinator for '78-'79 should contact Steve Dane at 1559 or leave their name with the Student Government secretary. Dea.dline for applications is noon on Friday. 
The Judicial Coordinator will be elected by the hall judicial board chairmen after break. Previous exp·erience on a judicial board is not required. 
SG plans n~9wspaper drive 
S1tudent Government plans to conduct a newspaper drive to benefit the Volunteer Services of the University. All proceeds will be contributed to the Volunteer Sen1ices Fund, where they will· be available to such volunteer organi­zations as CILA, World Hunger 
_coalition, Neighborhood Study HelJP and Amnesty International, as well as the community services projects of the residence halls. Faculty, staff, students and administration of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ar~ asked to start saving their newspapers now. A deposit bin will be provided on April 11 through 13 in Parking Lot C-3. northwest of the stadium. No ;nagazines will be accepted. 
Bull Mooses Party irix to be sold 

Tickets for the April 1 Bull ·l;;::::::::::::::::G~~~~U~~~=======~~
Moose Party will go on sale -~ 
tomorrow at the Student Union 
Ticket Office. Ticket price is $2.50 
and includes transportation, mun­
chies and all the beer you can 
drink. 

I~D Art Gallery s~~onsors lecture 
Tht: Notre Dame Art Gallery will pres•ent a lecture on "Renaissance Bronzes" by William Wixom tomorrow at 7 p.m. A member of the Art Gallery Advisory Council, Wixom is Curator of Medieval and Renaissance Art at the Cleveland Museum of Art. ·The lecture will be held in the O'Shaughne{Ssy Art Gallery and is free to t!ne public. 
C~nter 

tt' offer day camp Monday April 10 8: pm Notre Dame ACC
TI1e Early Chi1tdhood Develop­ment Center At Saint Mary's will All Seats Reserved $8.00 & .00 
once again o:.ffu..-a day camp ---...!~~.::.::::.::..:;~~::.::~;,;..;;,..::::~~~.:.:~.....;;;;..~.;...;~.;;..--ll program this summer.· .Prq,~ams Tickets ·now on willlbe designed for children of til·e at StudentUnion Ticket Office Notre Dame-SMCs communit -~ and ACC Box Office 
from ages 3 to 5 and 6 to 9. Cafll 
Terrii Kosick at 4-1-4150 to receive ·!..---------~--~~,_.....,.--~-~--------··
.
information on registratioa, 
2 


the casualties, but did not say how many. 
An official communique said the rioters attacked guards during a morning inspection and blockaded the entrance to the cellblock with bedding when their attack failed. They set fire to the bedding, and flames spread through the cellblock before ftremen could move in, it said. 
Prison guards lobbed teargas grenades· into the second floor of the cell block as army troops surrounded the prison to prevent escapes. 
The independent news agency Nocticias Argentinas said one guard was taken hostage early in the uprising and later killed. 
The agency said two cars raced 
-~-fA~~ CLEAN lP YOUR ACf ~ BEFORE BREAK AT 
THE KNIGHTS 
...mens hai' cutli1g 
277-1691
at its finest 
272-0312 

54533 Terrace Lane Tues. & Wed. 8:30;6:30 Only 5 minutesThurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 from campus
~at._ 8:30-5:30 

COMMODITY MERCHANDISING... AS CLOSE TO THE PITS AS YOU CAN GET 
The trading floor o! the Grain Exchange is called the "pit" where fortunes are made and lost everyday. The commodity merchandiser works on the fringe of the pits, buying and selling in the cash and future markets. 
As a Commodity Merchandiser, you deal with millions of dollars each month. You know the commodity market, understand all modes of transportation, know how to hedgf!. You are decislvP, aggressive, and autonomous. You are responsible for making a pprofit. So you are well apid and quickly promoted. 
General Mills is a $3 billion dolar corporation. We need Commodity Merchandisers. We are not looking for just anybody. But we might be looking for you. LeaJership qualities and entrepreneurial inclinations a must. 
We'll train you on the job, and if you have the ability to learn quickly, a desire to thrive in an environment that alway-; challenging, the willingness to succeed or fail on the basis of yr, own decisions-you could have a bright career ahead of you. career that offers the opportunity of advancement into higher levels of management in many areas of the corporation. 

past the prison entrance shortly before the riot and fired at guards, but that report was unconfirmed by official sources. 
After the riot ambulances escorted by police motorcycles took the injured to hospitals with bum centers. 
The prison was built for 2,500 prisoners but reportedly houses more than 4,(1('1), about 80 percent of them women. 
Local human rigl groups claim 2,000 of the inmates are political prisoners jailed since li1e armed forces seized power two J. ·:ars ago and moved to eliminate left-wing guerrillas. 
Prison officials said all prisoners in cellblock seven, where the riot erupted, were common criminals. 


Irish nine to open spring season 
Head Coach Dr. Tom Kelly and been a starter at Notre Dame since Fairlawn, N.J., product will 
*Observer Sports 
1978 Fighting Irish baseball squad 
will  open  their  season  Monday,  
March  20  when  they  face  the  
Wisconsin  Badgers  in  the  first  

round of the Rollins Invitational Tounament in Rollins. Fl. 
Notre Dame holds a 48-40-1 edge over the Badgers. in a series that dates back to 1895. With five regulars and several seasoned pitchers back from 1977, the Irish are looking to improve upon their 17-26 record of a year ago. 
Headlining the list of returnees is junior shortstop Rick Pullano. The Skokie II .. native.who has
' 

his freshman year, hit .345 in 1977 while playing in all 43 games. Sophomore Dan Voellinger will be counted on to fill the shoes of graduated aGademic all-American catcher Tim Pollock and his .385 batting average. Voellinger, who hails from Rockford, D.. led the club with five round-trippers in his rookie campaign. 
Pitching will be a question mark for Notre Dame, but Kelly will be looking to a pair of seniors to shore up the staff. Southpaw Don Wolfe split four decisions last spring while battling arm troubles. The attempt to regain the form he displayed as a sophomore, when he won four while losing two and chalking up a 2.97 ERA. Right-hander Joe Leahy has his sights set on a consistent year after an up-and-down season. The 6-4, 210 pounder from Liberty Lake, WA. won two and lost six in 1977. 
Following the completion of the Rollins tournament, where Notre Dame will play nine games in six days, the Irish will open the home portion of their schedule on Friday, March 31, when they host Bethel in a single game beginning at 3 p.m. 
Best to conclude SID post 
[continued from page 8] is how to work with people. This common affair, but they represent talent that Best possesses is the the relationship that all the major reason he will be missed so individuals in that office possess. much at Notre Dame. They can work hard together and 
"I've learned so much from Bobhave an excellent time doing it. 

and I'm very happy for him,"Bob Best has accomplished feats Montana commented. "But, in ain only five years that would take selfish way, I'm sorry to see him many a lifetime. You can learn a leave."
lot about communication arts from Best, but when you look back, the "That's the way everybody thing that you learn most from him feels," Neely concluded. 
NOTICES 

Need aride to Florida? Reserve 1 seat on a bus. Leaves Friday at 6:00 pm for Ft. Lauderdale. $40 round trip, Call Harry at 8898. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL8086 

EVERY STUDENT CAN VOTE IN THE MAY INDIANA PRIMARY • If you are interested, register before spring break by calling Moat 4-1-4001. 
Typing. Resaonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-Q746. Hours: 8 am to 6 pm. 
Typing done in home. Fast, accurate, reasonable. Close to campus. Call 272-7866 anytime. 
Get to class or work on time. Call Bob's wake-up service 287-4971. 
Dissertations. manuscripts typed. IBM selection II. Linda's Letters, 287-4971. 
OPERATION BRAINSTORM: an ideas contest open to the NO community will run until Wednesday. Anyone with an idea to improve NDis asked to enter. $50 first prize, $25 second prize and $10 third prize. 
Fast accurate typing done in home (for busy students). Telephone 288-6064 or 289-3279. 
NEED QUAUTY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Services, IBM correcting selectrics. 85 cent~r page minimum. Call 232-()898 " hen you want the best." 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans. $20-$150. Due in thirty days. One percent interest per month. M-F 11:15-12:15, LaFortue basement. 
Bus service to Chicago every Friday. Leave the circle at 6:05. For tickets and info call Shep at 8330. 
FOR RENT 

Campus View. Private Bath -, 1 or 2 flrnds furnished, utilities paid....$142.50 (1), $95 (2). Call John at 277-5694 after 4 pm. 
One immdiate vacancf in two-bedroom house in Niles. Share 180 per mo. rent. Modern furnished , kitchen, free laundry. 
Call Joe 684-Q281 . 
5and 6 bedroom furnished houses. For rent this summer and fall. Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call 232-3815 after 5. 
FOR SALE 

1977 Toyota Corolla station wagon. All white , radial tires, under coat, 4 speed, ~eat mileage. 2&35 miles per gallon. 
int condition. 5,000 miles. Call 232-1374. 
Pioneer CT 4141A tape deck; KLH 17 x speakers...retail $430. Will sell for $200. Call Terry 3014. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC­lURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
75 SILVER CAMARO. TERRIFIC BUY. 
CALA NELA 272-11342. 
FOR SALE ....ND FIGHT SONG automo­bile hom. Contact Kathy, 284-4385 for Info. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: One gold bracelet at Library Sat. 
nile. Call Denise, 4-1-4033. 
FOUND: Pair of glasses with ~lastic frames In brown case between eenan and Zahm. Claim at Observer office. 
LOST: Will whoever took a mechanics book 136 from So. dini~ hall March 13 
· please return 1t. Neect desperately. 
Classified Ads 
LOST: A gold monogrammed pen with Need ride to NYC area. Can leave the initials ABM. If found, please call Thursday afternoon. Call Irene (6733) or Angie at SMC 4644. Janet (1364). 
FOUND: One ford key on Kawasaki key Need ride to Colorado during spring chain in the Huddle. Joe, 6795. break. Call Max 3510. 
LOST: Two keys with no. 623 on them on Need ride to DC area after Emil. Bob, a penny chain. Call Joe 6795. 8653. 
LOST: Black leather hockey skates with a Ride needed to Ny state area for spring piece of yellow tape inside each skate. break. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. Left inside South Dining Hall near coat rack area. Ph 3171. Need ried to los Angeles over break. 
Call Debbie, 8485. LOST: Near the Library bar, aset of keys to rm 217. If found , please call Patty Need ride to Boston area Mar. 17. Will 4287. share driving and expenses. Call Tony at 
1436. 
LOST: One expensive black ski glove near North Dining Hall on Feb. 21. Give my Two students need ride to Fort Meyers , hand a break and call 1653. · Fla., or vicinitY for break. Will share 
driving and expenses. Call Brian 1153. LOST: One pair Timberline boots, lost in ACC B-ball courts above the ice rink, Sat Need ride for th.ree to the Big Ap~e, New night call Mike 1759. York City for break. We can't a ord the 
train so give u~ a call at 3414. FOUND: Two keys on key. ring in snow bank in back of the ACC by the tennis Need ride to Alberquerque, New Mexico courts. May claim at the Observer office. for break. Will share expenses and 
driving. Call 4+4898. Debbie. 
LOST: A brown purse with my 10 card and some cash, probably in Huddle. Need ride to Detroit for break. Leaving • Turn in 153 Chem. Eng. March 17. Also, need ride back to NO on 
Mar. 27. Call Katie 6751. 
Going to Boston? Need ride, will pay expenses. Call Ann 6751.
WANTED 

Need ride to Houston for break. Call Cathy 4-1-4559.
Need aride to Connecticut. Call Cathy at SMC 4-1-4960. ­Need ride to St. Paul. Can leave Thurs. or Fri. Will share driving and expenses.
Need ride to Philadelphia area. Call Kathy 8060.
Laura 3847. DESPERATE!! !!I Need ride to Cleveland
One ride to Ft. Lauderdale Fla. Call 3-16. Share driving and expenses.
Tricia, 6848. 
4-1-5481. 
Need ride to PHtsburgh, Tburs. or urtyFri., Jim, 289-11014.  Going to PA, NJ, DEL, MD?? Need ride Southeast Pennsylvania for break!  
I need a ride to Minnesota for two. Call  Susan, 6636.  
232-6433 and leave a message for Owen.  Need ride to North suburbs of Chicago  
Ride needed to Renssaelear (ST. Joeseph college) tor break. Call Con, 1157.  March 17th after 12. Will share driving and expenses. Call JB at 1165.  
Ski Colorado -Have car, need riders.  PERSONALS  
Cll tol. 3404 between 11-12 pm.  
Need ride anywhere in Florida, prefera­bly Tampa. Share driving and expenses.  Happy Day today and every day. Carol.  
Call Beth 1267.  (LAP) Dear Tony,  
I'd shave my beard for a ride to New  Wrmest congratulations on~ election as the new editor in chief. all  
Jersey. Bruce, 3587.  wish you the best of luck in your senior  
year at NDand the future. Love, 
Need ride to Columbus area Thursday.Call Kelley 4-1-5258.  Sue, Dan, Tom, Cathy, Mary, Mom & Dad too, of course.  
Desperately need ride from N 0 to So.  Ouinny: 
Bend at midnight. Will pay. Call 233-7949.  Remember, it is better to drop trow than blow chow!  
NEED RIDE TD CINCINNATI FOR  LOST: One sexy Thursday night copy- 
BREAK. CALL TINA ~1-4155.  reader. Come back Chris, there is a  
reward.  
Two SMG g1r1s lookmg tor ride to Columbus Ohio, March 17. Will share  Bob  
expenses. Call Carol, 4-1-4868.  Pain and Flobo:  
Too bad we won't be here to celebrate  
Ride needed to Fort Lauderdale for  your 20th birthday, but don't fret! When  
break. John, 1107.  we get back we'll be sure to take care of  
all the formalities ­two lakings and one  
Need riders to St. Louis. Will share  hell of a celebration. Enjoy break, and  
driving and expenses. Call Larry after six. 232-4499.  maybe you'd be smart to practice up on your swimming techniques. Love,  
Cathy, Janet, Jill, Katie, Nancy and  
Ride to Boston for two people. Share  Sherry. 
driving and ~xpenses. Call 5236 (SMC).  
BILL NISSLEY- 
Need ride to Albany New York. Call  Swooping for a little hokey-pokey? 
Bruce at 8992. Will pay exorbitant  Affectionately, 
amount.  Sugar Sometimes  
Stage managers and stage crew for  Today is Mary Chustak's birthday. Make  
student players production of Come Blow  her 20th happy -wishes and kisses  
your Hom by Neil Simon (performance  accepted at 421 Badin [81120]. 
April 20, 21,28, 29). Meeting for all  
interested 8:30 Wednesday night, LaFor- Roseanne,  
tune Rathskeller or call Maureen, 6856.  Do you really think 21 is old enough to  
wear an itsy bitsy-teeny-weeny black  
Need ride to Evansville. Will share  bikini? Happy 21st, Rosie.  
expenses. Jim, 2187.  Sue, Joy, Donna  

3T SMC Holy Cross have a nice Easter Vacation! Have fun, Love Tricia 
Detroit -Cris, Bruce, Pat....Happy Easter. I love you! Love, 
Tricia 

Killer, When Mona saw the POlish Prince she said "0"! 
Don Ron, Can't wait! Love, The little one 
Doland, Have any handkerchiefs to wet? Call the emotional rejects! Guess who 
B.T. Why did it take over 3112 years to meet you? Don't worry though. I won't let adversity overcome me. Take care 
and have a great break.  I'll think of you  
often.  Love,  
Chris  

Free three month old puppy [part boxer] call 272-2520 after 3 pm. 
Haircuts, trims, styles, cheap! Betsy, SMC 4530. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL8086 
The plague is on the prowl. 3-0 looking out for 4-Q after break. Keep it up, you are great!$ 
2(moms) plaquettes 

Ann, 
SMC Juniors:
Just thought you miVht like a birthday 
Don't forget to gat ready to dance the

personal -Happy 19th. 
night away April 9th at Cinnabars...••
Brian 
Mora later 

Mr. Cash­
How's this? The southern sun wars the duckpin and the ~ltwater rusts the lank klank so bugs bunny is left with a carrot Have a welldeserved realtive and abs~'" lute great time and take care -A future 
"2-Cer?" 
Molestees:

To 348 Alumni and Pat, 
Most of us benefitted from the si~n.
Thanks for showin3, me agreat time on 
Days Inn and Howard Johnson never ad

my visit to NO. Wil wood is yours if anv 
so much business. Love and thanks,

of you come down this summer. 
The Molesters
Rich 
GO IRISH!!! ON TO ST. LOUIS!!

''Short Person"­
The way I see it, average heiht around here is 4'8" .... you may even qualify as a "tall" person. 
Katie 

Help Roseanne Shea celebrate her 21st att the Library tonight. 
Joe, Have a great and wild 21st! Sharon Kevin, Congratulations on your presidency! Your First Lady 
Italian Passionate Man ­

G-:;rp: L. 
Happy St. Patricks Day a day early!
If tllld yuu I liked yuur pants, could I 
Irish Passionate Woman

take yau out of them? 
StacyD 

Chrissy, Kathy, Jean and Kathy, You are all the best. I'm looking forward to seeing you again. Rich 
To the Jarlesburg Yahoo, How'd that can opener taste? Mac and Mike 
Hey label, 
You really know how to cut the cheese. Mule, T.R.• Willie, Keef, Mac 
To the Lehpke Kid, 
You are the finest cheese connoisseur we know. Patty, Paula, Teri, and Terry 
TO Ann Schmidt: 
Your in residence member of the Friends of the Buzzards Society would like to remind you that today is Buzzard Day in Hinckley Ohio! 
Killer, 
I hope you and Gilbert have a great time in Lawrence! I'll miss you, but I'll be watching! Nasvidenje, 
Brown eyes 

Jammer-Could I have my glasses back? HappyBirthday, Marie 
Jaminer-Happy Birthday. Love, Lisa PS: You are cute! 
Banker, Is amerger really necessary? Why start worrying about technicalities now? Admirer 
Peggy has a terminal case of the SMC mind warp. 
Dearest Ed, 
Or is it Jed, Ned, Fred or Ted??? Oh well, the valentine was nice, even though it was a month late!!! Thanks, 
M.M. 

Have agreat celebration, goosey!!! Luv, A Domer PS: XO 
Cassanova, I trust you.....won't ever let go! Your lover 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 
7:00 pm . Anyone wishing to make an appointment for confession at a different time may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
Attention, 
OLA is being ressurected; all non-members beware our wrath, espe­cially P.V. 
The Irish children are still in Dayton doing beers and bowls, but please don't call me Norman. Call me Chubbsy-Ubbsy 
MLD,  
Happy three year anniversary.  Love,  
wvc  


sandy, thanks for driving to Tulsa ffiis weekend. It was agreat time; I just hOPe you don't think we're too insane. JLB 
I'm littleMikey and here are three reasons not to go to a party. 11 -It Is too cold out. 12-I don't know anyone. 13-1 am happy right here where I am. 14-My veen hurts me. 
Strange things happen when you eat liverwurst -Right Jeffry? 
Dear Corby resident McGlinn, You are an old man at 22. Happy B-day. Outrageous and the extra ball lady 
Jeff Gosnell Is acrabby appleton. 
ruNG TO THE TUNE OF "OH UTTLE 
ORIN"~ 
Oh Ker , We love you golden cheese, Oh Kerby, You left it at our knees, We love those chunks so golden and so small, Even though you can't tell them apart at all, Oh Keby, We love your famous walk, We love your blue shorts too, Half a drinker, half a taster, Brandt with humor your no waster, Kerby Baby, your cool. Your Presidential suite mates and Ex (we hope not) friends 
Maryellen, Is Danny smiling too? I don't know what Cleveland has that South Bend doesn't but have ahappy birthday there anyway! ! Love. 451, 435 &me 
JLB, Thank you for a super weekend! You're my favorite obnoxious person in the whole world. Love, Biz 



r Wednesday, March 15, 1978 
Best resigns as NO's Assistant SID 
by Paul Stevenson tino, a speech therapist in the come to him. Sports Editor South Bend school system. "When I was a student assistant, During his tenure as-the there were five of us working 
While many people believe that Assistant Sports Information Direc­here." Best recalled. "That Notre Dame's tradition was tor. the Cincinnati, Ohio native has situation remained the same for the earned solely on the field of play, edited 11 award-winning sports first two years I was here. Then the the individuals behind the organi­publications at Notre Dame. He is word got out that being able to zation are one of the main reasons also the co-author of the book, work up here was a good situation. the heritage surrounding the "Notre Dame's Era of Ara," You have the chance to meet a lot Golden Dome is so great. currently in it's third printing. of interesting people and to do a lot 
The role of the Sports Informa­"It was just a matter of being in of things. It also looks good on tion Department in bringing the right place at the right time," your resume. Now, we have 14 national recognition to Notre Dame Best stated in reference to his student assistants, and if it weren't -athletics may be as vital as the book. "It was very rewarding to for them, we could never get the performance turned in on the field. have the chance to write a book things done we need to." The work done by this department with Tom Pagna and it was really a The Czar is well known for his is an essential facet of a successful great sense of accomplishment." occasional off-beat manner, but athletic program. Best has enjoyed his years here acts that way for a purpose. That 
Unfortunately for the University at du Lac and especially having the style is part of his personality, but of Notre Dame, a man that has excellent opportunity to work also s.omething which has helped helped to make this program under Roger Valdiserri, Assist­him achieve some goals. stronger over the past five years, ant Athletic Director and Sports "I take pride in treating the Robert P. Best. Assistant Sports Information Director. studelflt assistants in my abbrassive Information Director, has announc­"Roger has been incredible," way, •·• Best remarked. "In my time ed that he will be leaving du Lac in Best emphasized. "I know I can here, I've seen the students change order to become the Publicity say. unhappily. that I'll never have from shy. soft-spoken little dwarfs Director for the Tampa Bay a better working relationship with a into people that can communicate Buccaneers of the National Football boss. He has given me the freedom with anybody." League. and the opportunity to do a lot of Best and his student assistant 
Best graduated from Notre Dame things. It's been a pleasure to work staff are responsible for filling in with a communications degree in with him. Bar none. he is the best the media on upcoming events. The 1971. During his four years as an known Sports Information Director Observer depends heavily on the undergraduate. he worked as a in the country, and I'm sure he's work of their department. student assistant in the Sports the best too." "I think the student paper has a Information Department and Best is certainly an extremely responsibility to the student 
Bob Best, who has been Notre Dame's Assistant Sports Informationserved as a sports announcer for talented individual. destined to body." Best commented; I feel Director for the past five years, is now headed for the Tampa BayWSND. In addition. Best also make quite an impression in his that in addition to supplying Buccaneers.
played the baritone in the Notre new role at Tampa Bay. The information that students want to Dame marching band for two Assistant SID is reponsible for read. the paper must report on all continued. "I agree with that the move. seven days a week. Hes years. laying out all of the athletic guides. aspects of atheltics. In the past, viewpoint. In addition. I have a lot secretaries help him fufill these 
Upon graduation. Best worked as programs and pamphlets for all of the non-revenue sports have been of respect for John McKay. You duties. a sports and features writer for the the varsity sports. His knowledge short-changed. You probably cannot be a Notre Dame graduate "If we didn't have that kind of Cincinnati Post and Times-Star. in that area is difficult to match. won't print this. but I dare you. in my generation and not admire cooperation from them, we couldn't After a six month term with the However. the important fact about because this year has been the best the job he did at USC." get done what we needed." Best Cincinnati paper. Best moved on to Bob -Best is not the great ability he coverage The Observer has given Best realizes that all the things emphasized. become assistant director of public has to utilize his technical skills, to all of the sports on campus." he has accomplished in his short Yes. Montana and Neely have a relations for the Pittsburgh Pirates but the means by which he deals Best is scheduled to leave on time here stems from other lot of respect for Best. but there is baseball team. with people. April 1 to begin work in Tampa. A individuals. people he is glad he an excellent relationship between 
In 1973. Best returned to his "Bob's strongest suit is his lot of new experiences await him as has had the opportunity to work the three of them that is hard to alma mater to become the ability to relate to people. whether well as several challenges that he with. equal. Assistant Sports Information Di­they be members of the media. cannot wait to undertake. "I've been lucky in that I've got For his birthday last May. the rector. "One thing that was very players. coaches or his staff. ''The thing that appealed to me the greatest secretaries in the two secretaries tied Best's chair to attractive to me about coming back "student assistant Tom Desomond most about the Tampa Bay job is world." Best exclaimed. "An his desk and tied the drawers shut. was the chance I would have to· remarked. Yes. the "Czar," by that they are a first class awful lot of people think that the They also taped together all the work on my master's degree at the which the student assistants organization that is being built the job has to be eight to five. But papers in his desk. as well as same time," Best reflectd. address him. has the remarkable way it should be." Best stressed. Jeanne and Kim stay as long as sticking captions under his per­"Although it's not mandatory 'to ability to deal well with individuals "By that I mean that they have they have to to get things done." sonal pictures. In addition. they have that degree in this profession. on all levels. made a committment to build a Yes. his secretaries. Jeanne put balloons. steamers and toilet it is one thing that really helped Although there is constant team slowly but correctly, not Neely and Kim Montana have done paper all over his office. me.·· kidding between the students and throwing away draft choices for a lot to keep Best informed so that Best just came into the office and 
In the summer of 1974. Best· the Czar, there is also a mutual players that will only give them a he can maintain his hectic proceeded to work as usual without completed his work on his master's respect for one another. Best year or two." schedule. Best puts in a lot of saying a thing. But, that in communication arts, just in time would do anything for his student •'They accept the fact that they hours over the weekend. whether it exemplifies his sense of humor. to enter into marriage. Best assistants and if they have any are going to take their lumps for be covering the football. basketball These kind of antics are not a married the former Letty Costan-problems. he would expect them to two or three years." Best or hockey team. Best is always on [continued on page 7] 
Mike Towle 

NCAA b-ball tix sale again today 
Bits and F,ieces 
Tickets for the regionals this Friday, March 17. in Lawrence,
Towle's Rags 
Kansas will be on sale today from 9 
There was a time when I considered Derek Sanderson to be hockey's embarrassment for him. He interrupted AI McGuire at wrong times and a.m. to S p.m. at the second floor next superstar center. That seems, as AI McGuire would say, light years repeatedly misstated players' names, most notably Darnell Valentine (not ticket windows of the ACC. The ago. Actually, it was about ten years ago that Derek Sanderson was first Darrdl) and Clint Johnson (not Jones). I had the feeling McGuire felt total ticket package costs 12 adding color to the game of ice hockey over and beyond the black and gold quite uncomfortable working with Gowdy. dollars. which includes three apparel of the Boston Bruins. He was breaking in as a flashy, rookie Quote~ of the Week: McGuire during our game with Houston. "Houston's games. The first two contests will center with the National Hocky League Bruins on his way to winning the boat came in today, but they were at the bus depot." be played on Friday night. with the Calder Trophy for NHL Rookie of the Year. The future was lined with In my trivia column three weeks ago, the only persons to answer every championship clash played on 
roses for this mustachioed marvel, one who once dared to render a Sunday. Separate tickets may not
question correctly were Cindy Smullen and Renee Leuchten.-The questionflexed-armed salute during a game being televised. abou1t the NCAA basketball tournament referred to only the last ten years. be purchased, only the total 
From the beginning it was obvious that Sanderson had hockey talent package is available. 
They are Marquette, North Carolina, Louisville, Kansas and Indiana. 
that would do him justice with and against the best hockey players and Also on sale today will be
UCLA had the most players in the NBA at the beginning of the season. 
teams of all time. I have never, ever, seen anyone able to win faceoffs the tickets for the finals to be played on
Juliu:s Erving went to Massachusetts, Earl Monroe-Winston Salem, Doug way Sanderson could and had he not been on a team loaded with Saturday. March 2S and Monday.
Collins-Illinois State, Same Lacey-New Mexico State, Jack Marin-Duke,
Espositos, Orrs, Hodges' and Bucyks, he might have averaged SO goals March 27 at the Checkerdome in
Mad Calvin-Southern Cal and Slick Watts-Xavier (La.) 
per year. Off the rink, Derek drew added attention with his public antics · St. Louis. Missouri. The ticket
Jerry Tarkanian has the best winning percentage of active college
and represented the epitome of a Dennis the Menace, if not a wayward price is 28 dollars. which includes
baskc!tball coaches (at least 100 wins before this season). Chicago had two 
child. Even then, he had the sort of manly charm that would be loved by two games on each date. All tickets 
consecutive NFL titles with two different teams. Lou Michaels is the only 
your sister, mother and grandmother, all at the same time. will be sold on a first come. first
pro football player to. score on every kind of scoring play. 
It was during the time that Sanderson was negotiating with the served basis. 
Major leaguers with SO homers or more in one season are Roger Maris, 
Philadelphia Blazers of the WHA that his life and health began to take a A ticket application will be filled
Babe Ruth (4), Hank Greenberg, Jimmie Foxx, Johny Mize, Hack Wilson, 
nosedive. Injuries to Sanderson discouraged the Blazers from paying him out for the NCAA finals in St.
Mickey Mantle (2), Ralph Kiner (2), Willie Mays (2) and George Foster.
the full 2.6S million dollars they had promised. They even offered him a Louis. Tickets may then be picked
Eddi'e Matthews and Ernie Banks each retired with 511 homers. Wilbur
million not to play for them after a while. Since that time in the early up only in St. Louis prior to the
Wood was the last pitcher to win 20 and lose 20 in the same season.
seventies, Derek had several flings with NHL teams that were shortlived game and only the person who
Ron Hunt got hit be a pitch SO times in one season breaking Minnie
to say the least. filled out the application may
Minoso's record of 49. The three Yankee catchers are Yogi Berra, Elston
Two years ago, Derek dropped out of sight completely only to resurface obtain a ticket. The student must
Howard and Johny Blanchard. The 1965 Dodger switch-hitting infield was 
last month. However, this time, the new Derek Sanderson was suffering present his or her ID card at that
Wes Parker, Jim Lefebvre, Maury Wills and Junior Gilliam. Ron Hansen
from alcoholism, bleeding .. ulcers and emotional anguish. And now, in time in St. Louis. Pickup days will 
had the last unassisted triple play. 
Alice Cooper fashion, Derek Sanderson is trying to overcome these recent be Friday. March 24 from 10 a.m. 
Phil Esposito's first NHL coach was Billy Reay. I think Wilt
problems to make a comeback at what he does best...in his case, play to 6 p.m. and Saturday. March 25 
Chamberlain's last NBA coach was Bill Sharmam or it might have been
hockey. After working out with the De•roit Red Wings for several weeks, from 9a.m. to 12 noon. Tickets may 
himself. My researchers are still checking.
Derek is ready to make a go of it with the Pittsburgh Penguins. The odds be picked up form the Notre Dame may be against Derek Sanderson but the Penguins just might be wise in Biii Shakespeare holds the Notre Dame punt record with 86 yards. The Ticket Office personnel quartered giving him a long look. first N.IJ. touchdown was scored by Harry Jewett in 1888. Outland at the Rodeway Inn Downtown. 
I once thought that Curt Gowdy was my favorite sportscaster and a good Trophy winners besides Ross Browner were George Connor and Bill 2600 Market Street. St. Louis. one at that, but times may be changing. Many adult observers of Fischer. Missouri. televised baseball I have queried have indicated great respect for Gowdy if Finally, congratulations go out to the Grace Hall basketball team for If Notre Dame does not ·make it not for anything else, then his familiar voice made famous by the NBC winning the interhall championship. Captained by Vince BroUey, a to the finals. then checks may be Baseball Game of the Week in the sixties and early seventies. But Curt legendary basketball talent in his own right, Grace defeated Fisher to picked up at the Ticket Office upon Gowdy's play-by-play of Saturday's UCLA-Kansas game had to be an capture the crown. return from spring break. 




