.~--~­
-'---~--.------,.------------------....----~~--.. 
WAC holds initial meeting; discusses new dormitory 


Looking as if it is about to go through the uprights, the hot-air balloon that floated lazily over the stadium Saturday, caught the gaze of the attending <:rowd. [Photo by Cafe Magennis]. 
Somoza fights to save nation from invasion 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua [AP] ­President Anastasio Somoza used troops, tanks and warplanes to quell the latest and bloodiest uprising against his rule, but the fight to oust him appears far from over. 
"This is only the beginning. I'm leaving for Costa Rica just as fast as I can," said one rebellious resident of Esteli, a city whose heart was pounded to dust during a week-long assault by the national guard, Nicaragua's 7,500-man army. 
Somoza said he unleashed his military forces on Esteli and three other major cities to save the nation from communism, which he claims is being imported by Cuban-trained Sandinista guerrillas. 
But anyone who visited Esteli, Leon, Masaya or Chinandega while they were in rebel hands found the challenge to the strongman's rule coming mostly from townspeople armed with guns made to kill rabbits rather than men. 
One Red Cross spokesman estimated 2,000 people may have died in Esteli alone, although firm figures have been impossible to obtain. Red Cross spokesmen estimate more than 1,000 died in earlier fighting in Leon, Chinandenga and Masaya, and that 10,000 people may have fled the country during the violence. 
The nationwide rebellion was spearheaded by the Sandinista National Liberation Front, a group named after a Nicaraguan rebel of the 1930s. The group was formed by a Cuban-trained Marxist, Carlos Fonseca Amador, who was killed by Somoza troops in a mountain battle about two years ago. 
There are still Marxists involved, but there is no doubt they can no longer control the , movement,'' said a foreign diplomat who agreed to give his views on the condition he not be identified. 
The Sandinista movement has been flooded with people from all walks of life who support the guerrillas in their attack on the hold Somoza and his family has had on this nation for 40 years. 
Somoza has kept the guard loyal through liberal fringe benefits, housing, medical care, and offering officers incentives that include lucrative business deals. 
Businessmen accuse Somoza of being insatiably greedy, of mis­managing -the economy and of fomenting a communist opposition merely by staying in office. 
Journalists, seeking to balance reports on Somoza, were hard­pressed in recent weeks to find people on the street who had anything good to say about him. 
Many Nicaraguans say the United States is to blame for the situation and believe Washington still supports Somoza. 
The U.S. Marines put Somoza's father, Anastasio Sr., in power in the 1930s after two decades of American intervention in Nicaraguan affairs. 
The subtlety ofcurrent American pressure on Somoza to improve his human rights record has been lost on most Nicaraguans. The United States has been reluctant to de­nounce Somoza publicly, saying that rupturing relations would remove what little leverage Washington has in the matter. 
by Don Schmid 
Notre Dame's Women Advisory Council (WAC) had its opening meeting of the year yesterday morning with Assistant Provost Sr John Miriam Jones. 
The WAC was set up five years ago to establish a liaison between the women of Notre Dame and Jones, coordinator of co-education at the University. The council has 14 members, consisting of two representatives from each dorm and two representatives for off­campus students. 
The opening meeting served to acquaint the Council's six new members with the functions and procedures of the WAC. This year's co-chairpersons of the Coun­cil are Michelle Kelly, from Farley and Mary McCarthy, from Walsh. 
One of the major topics of discussion at the meeting was the new womens' dorm and the expan­sion of student social space. According to Jones, the new dorm, which was approved by the Board of Trustees last spring, would include a new student center for social_activities. 
Members of the Advisory Coun­
cil suggested that the center in­
clude multipurpose rooms that 
could be used for "oversized 
television, dances, parties, and a 
snack bar," Jones stated. 
Another problem discussed at 
yesterday's meeting was the lack of 
women faculty at the University. 
Jones noted that in recent years the 
number of women faculty has 
doubled, but she added that pro­
gress is slow because hiring is left 
up to individual departments, and 
sometimes the number of qualified 
women is small. 
Another issue raised at the 
meeting was that of the Home-. · coming King and Queen election. 
Jones emphasized that the majority 
of the council members felt this 
aspect of Homecoming was imma­
ture and "high-schoolish." 
Jones stated that as the number 
of women has grown at Notre 
Dame, it has become increasingly 
difficult for her to maintain perso­
nal relationships with all the wo­
men, and this made the Advisory 
Council necessary. 
"The Council is an extension of .my eyes and ears, and it keeps me 
aware of the progress of co­. education at Notre Dame. It has been really valuable for me in finding out where the students stand, but the Council has also been a delight to work with these 
five ~ars," Jones commented. 
Some of the past projects of the WAC have included an Alumni Weekend and a speaker series. 
For the Alumni Weekend, women graduates of Notre Dame were invited back to discuss with the undergraduate women such problems as the conflicting de­mands of motherhood and career. The alumni were asked to give their insights and feelings about how to prepare for the modem roles of women today, Jones stated. 
Jones added that the co­education of Notre Dame has gone slowly, but positively. 
''The first years were really hard, because the women were made objects of curiosity by the national news media, but now the problems of the women are very similar to the mens'," Jones explained . 

The 


Observer 
· independent student news.,.per serving notre •me ~nd st. ~ry'sVol. XIII, No. 20 , Monday, September 25, 1978 

"All went well" with the student banners for the Michigan game, according to Frank Guilfoyle, special projects commissioner. For further details, turn to p~ge 3. [Photo by Cate Magennis]. 
Vance completes Mideast tou{ 
DAMASCUS, Syria [AP) -Secre­tary of State Cyrus R. Vance completed his five-day Middle East tour yesterday by meeting with Syrian President Hafez Assad and flew home without gaining the Arab support he sought for the Camp David peace accords. 
In a brief airport statement before departing, Vance said his five-hour meeting with Assad had been "frank and exhaustive." He said he agreed with Assad that dialogue between Syria and the United States should continue because "of the shared hope of accomplishing a just peace in the area." 
Speaking privately, U.S. officials said Vance had hoped only to persuade Assad to soften his opposition to the Camp David agreements so other Arab govern­ments might fmd it easier to accept them. But senior Syrian sources said Assad told Vance it was impossible for Syria to change its position. 
The meeting originally had been set for Saturday but was put off because a· meeting of Assad with other hard-line Arab leaders opposed to the current U.S. peace initiative lasted longer than expected. Assad asked for the postponement, and U.S. sources said Vance considered cancelling the trip but decided to come here rather than risk offending the leaders of Saudi Arabia, who helped arrange the session with the Syrian leader. 

In Jerusalem, meanwhile. the Israeli Cabinet approved the Camp David accords, which are to be submitted to Parliament for ratifi­cation later this week. 
In Kuwair. the daily Al-Qabas newpaper reported that Assad and­Yasser Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Lib~ation · Organization, plan to go to Saudi Arabia to brief Saudi leaders on last wee_!t's anti­Camp David summit in Damascus. Arafat and Libyan strongman Moamar Khadafy had flown from 
(eontbaaed 011 JNIP 3) 

Monday, September 25, 1978
the observer 
,....News Briefs_______,.. 
I===::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:== World 

Kissinger talks on Mideast 
WASHINGTON · Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said yesterday he is optimistic that Jordan and possibly Syria will join in Mideast peace negotiations, despite theri public denuncia­tions of the Camp David accords. Under questioning by reporters yesterday, Kissinger said he interprets criticism of the pact by Arab leaders as meant largely to build support among their people and other ARab leaders. not indicative of the final outcome. He also ~aid he expects Israel "very painfully" to make concessions on settlements that might stand in the way of a final peace agreement. 
=============National 


Hearst to seek clemency 
SAN FRANCISCO -Patricia Hearst, who unsuccessfully appealed her bank rabbery conviction to the U.S. Supreme Court, will ask President Jimmy Carter for clemency, according to the San Francisco Chronicle. Hearst will be eligible for parole in July from her seven-year sentence stemming from the 1974 robbery committed with her captors, the Symbionese Liberation Army. "I hope the president will view it as a question of mercy and not of politics," said Rep. Leo Ryan, D-Calif., who will join Sen. S.I. Hayakawa, R-Calif., in the bipartisan delivery of her appeal to Justice Department officials today. 
I==========~Lornl 
De_faults paid .freely opted 
INDIANAPOLIS • The federal government would rather have persons who defaulted on their college loans pay voluntarily than force the state to take legal aciton agianst them, the U.S. attorney here says. U.S. Attorney Virginia Dill McCarty said her office, which has just begun a crackdown on defaulters, has 27 cases referred to it for possible legal action. Four of those cases have been resolved for payment without legal action, but the rest are pending, she said. 


Weather 
aear nights and sunny days through tomorrow. Lows in the mid to upper 40s. Highs in the low to mid 70s. 
~On Campus Today_--~~~ 
4 pm 4 pm 4:30pm 
5:30pm 
6:30-8 pm 
6:30, 9:30pm 
6:30pm 
. 7 pm 
7pm 
soccer, nd vs indiana tech. 
meeting, a.a.u.p. -nd chapter, univ. club 
lecture, "mechanism of ion movements in biological membranes & their role in atp generation," dr. efraim racker, cornell univ. 123 nieuwland 
meeting, french club, faculty dining room, south dining hall 
women's self defense class, sgt. joel wolvos of sb police, sponsored by phys ed dept., Ia fortune ballroom 
film, "neur" & "last grave at dimbazi," third world film festival, sponsored by center for exp. learning and student govt., engr. aud. 
video series, "japan-the living tradition, 'the feudal experience : part 1'," sponsored by ed. media & dpt. of modern & classical languages, a/v theatre c.c.e. 
meeting, off-campus students smc, smc-stapleton 
lecture, "the devonian great barrier reef of the canning basin, western australia," dr. phillip e. playford, amer. assoc. petroleum geologists, 101 earth sciences bldg. 
· 



New York's striking pressmen negotiate in Washington, DC 
NEW YORK, [AP] • Negotiations aimed at ending a pressmen's strike that has closed New York's three major newspapers for 46 days move to Washington today. 
Kenneth E. Moffett, a federal mediator, requested that the talks 
be moved and the publishers, after 
first  rejecting  the  idea,  agreed  
Saturday.  
Jonathan  Thompson,  a  spokes­ 

man for the Dally News said the publishers had changed their minds because they believed the pressmen were ready to engage in meaningful negotiations. 
Theodore W. Kheel, advisor to the 8500 members of other unions idled by the strike called by 1550 pressmen, tried to induce both sides yesterday to reach an accord that would get the New York 


Times, Dally News, and New York Post back in publication. 
In a statement issued from his summer home in East Hampton, NY, Kheel noted that the Allied Printing Trades Council, represen­ting nine unions idled by the pressmen's strike, had hired him to make a report on whether the publishers or the pressmen were to blame for the lack of progress in negotiations. 
Kheel said yesterday he cannot delay his report "to suit the strategies of either side. I must therefore warn the publishers and the pressmen that time is running out for them as far as the Allied is concerned.'' 
The pressmen struck Aug. 9, months after most contracts ex­pired here March 30, following a unilateral change of work rules by the publishers. the changes were aimed at pressroom "overstaffing and featherbedding" that the pub­lishers said were destroying their ability to compete with suburban papers. 
Psychology Club to hold meeting 
The Notre Dame Psychology Club, open to all psychology majors, will hold its first meeting of the year tomorrow at 7 p.m. in room 119 of Haggar Hall. 
Activities for the year will be discussed. Nominations will be sought for club officers as well as for the undergraduate representa­tive to the department faculty. 
All interested psychology majors are invited to attend. For further information, call Sheila Triplett at 6743. 



Costa Rica calls on civil guard 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica [AP] ­Costa Rica, the only Latin Amer­ican c()untry without a standing army, had to call on its civil guard, whose main weapons are World 

Brzezinski urges leaders to work for lasting peace 
cerned parties,'' said Brzezinski on ABC's "Issues and Answers" tele­vision program. The Carter admin­istration hoped the Arabs would take part in peace talks "at as early a date as possible .. .if they want to influence the outcome," he said. 
He declined to say if talks would 

"We certainly don't exclude continue  if  other  Arab  leaders  
refused  to  take  part  in  peace  
efforts.  

The Observer Is published Mon· diY through Frld1y except during ex1m 1nd Vilaltlon periods. Tl)e Obse1ver Is published by the students of Notre Dime 1nd S1lnt Miry's College. Subscription& m1y be purchued for no per y..r ($1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D1me, lndl1n1 46556. Second clus post1ge plld, Notre D1me, lndllnl, 46556. . The Obaerver 11 1 member of the Anocleted Prell. All repro­duction rights 1re reserved. 
He estimated that if all secunty personnel, police detec.iives, traffic cops and narcotics police were pooled Costa Rica could gather the 7500 men. 
That is about the size of the heavily armed, well-trained Nica­raguan national guard. 
The Costa Rican force was sent to the border after Nicaraguan air­craft reportedly crossed into this country's airspace in pursuit of Nicaraguan rebels. Venezuela and Panama at the same time sent ahandful of military aircraft here temporarily as a show of support 

for Costa  Rica and  a  warning  to  
Nicaragua.  
from the peace process any  con­ 

War I vir;~tage rifles, to protect its 
• borders last week as hostilities in neighboring Nicaragua raged close by. The civil guard, which at most can muster a full strength of about 7500 men, is better prepared to direct traffic in this nation of two million than to fight a war. The civil guard handles police functions in Costa Rica's cities and is rarely called upon for military duty. 
Ramon Umana, director-general of the guard, says the force has 3500 main-force personnel, plus a 3000-man rural assistance guard that helps out in the countryside. 
NEW YORK [AP] -Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security ad­viser to President Carter, said on Sunday "no one would object" if the Soviet Union took part in the Mideast peace negotiations and urged leaders of moderate Arab countries to work toward peace "for their own benefit." 
Observer Editorial Board 

Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Grulev 
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor 
Monday, September 25, 1978 

the observer 
Says Guilfoyle: 



Sign policy goes 'well' at Michigan game 
by Mike Frailey 
Despite some last minute confu­sion regarding University policy for the showing of student banners at home football games, "all went well" for the Michigan game this past weekend, according to Special Projects Commissioner Frank Guil­foyle. a tentative sign policy was decide upon last Thursday by Guilfoyle and Dean of Students James Roemer. 
Guilfoyle explained that the temporary policy was to ensure "good taste" in the banners shown at the Michigan game. "Students like to display their signs at halftime and appear on national television," Guilfoyle noted. "My job is to make sure that the banners are in good taste." 
Teh tenatative policy decided upon by Guilfoyle and Roemer was outlined by the Special Projects Commissioner. 
Students wishing to display signs at halftime are to bring the banner to the Student Government offices on the Friday befO!e the game from 1-5 p.m., or on Saturday morning betwe.en 9-11 a.m. . 
Gutlfoyle explatned that, pending his approval of a sign, the student is given a numbered pass in exchange for his sign. 
On the day of the game, the student will trade in the pass for his sign at Gate 15 of the stadium. 
After the Notre Dame Marching Band finishes its halftime show, Guilfoyle said. the students are al!owed .to parde around the field wtth thetr stgns. 
Prior to The Notre Dame ­Michigan game, confusion ar~se due to the lack of a defimte procedure regarding sign display. Guilfoyle admitted that the stu­dents were"more or less left out in the cold" as to how to go about getting approval for their halftime signs. . 
''The problem bastcally was due to the lack of time we had for settin~ up~ good, e~cien~.proce­dure; Gutlfoyle. satd. I had finahzed plans wtth. Dean roemer on last Thursday.whtch meant that the. studen~ bo?y could. not be notified unttl Frtday, the last day before the game." 
"Nevertheless, the student turn­out was promising," Guilf?yle noted. "As expected, no stgns were presented to me on Friday. However, on Saturday morning approximately 20 students came to me with their banners; and this was only ?ours befo~e the ~~me." . 
Gutlfoyle contmued, The enttre program ran smoothly. l_'he stu­dents were really cooperattve, and no signs had to be rejected." 

"It is important that the students understand that 1 am working with them in thejr efforts, not against them," Guilfoyle emphasized. 
Although he labeled the program "tentative," Guilfoyle was optimis­tic about its continuance for future home games. 
•'Later on this week 1am going to meet with Dean Roemer to evaluate the policy," Guilfoyle said. "I am very optimistic that it will meet with his approval and be continued as the normal operating proce­dure." 
Carter relaxes after campaigning 
WASIDNGTON, [AP] -Presi­dent Carter. taking his first day off since the Middle East peace sum­mit, rested yesterday at the White House after two hectic days of campaigning. 
The president, in his new role as peacemaker, won a standing ova­tion from his Bible class at the First Baptist Church before he taught the weekly lesson. 
At a worship service afterward, the Rev. Charles A. Trentham praised Carter for putting his "career on the line" in negotiating the frameworks for Middle East peace with Egypt's President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin during the 13-day Camp David summit. 
As he campaigned for Democrats in Pennsylvania, Ohio and the Carolinas on Friday and Saturday, Carter heard similar, lavish praise for his peace efforts. He told his audiences he was "still tired" from the summit talks. 
After answering questions from local citizens at a town meeting in the steel mill town of Aliquippa, Pa., on Saturday, the president appeared at a fundraiser for Demo­cratic congressional candidate Eugene Atkinson. 
Carter also used the occasion to endorse Peter Flaherty, former deputy attorney general, for gover­nor. 
Then he traveled to Columbus, Ohio. to dedicate a black-owned shopping and residential plaza and to bolster the party coffers at a Jefferson-Jackson Day fundraising dinner for nine statewide candi­dates. 
At the Pennsylvania town meet­ing, his fourth, Carter acknow­ledged that "many issues still remain to be resolved" in the Middle East, and that progress would be limited unless other Arab countries agree to negotiate. 
One questioner demanded to know why the United States would permit the Palestine Liberation Organization to open an informa­tional office in the nation's capital. "There are many groups like that that cause us concern," Carter said. ''The Ku Klux Klan, for instance. the Communist Party, the Nazis. It would be nice for us if they would just go away. But it is part of our system of government to 


OCCO'S.' 
BARBERS 
hairstylists 531 N. Michigan 
233-4957. 



Vance meets with Assad 
[continued from page 1] Damascus to Jordan .t•riday to enlist King Hussein's support, but he turned them down. 
In a speech ending the meeting of the Arab "rejectionists" Satur­day, Assad called Camp David "the summit of surrender" and Foreign Minister Abdul Halim Khaddam, and they drove immedi­ately to the presidential palace. Leaders of the hard-line Arab stated were leaving Damascus when Vance arrived, and his plane was shunted o[to a remote section of the airport to avoid the ceremon­ial departures of the Arab officials. Security was tight, and Syrian soldiers lined both sides of the 12-mile route from the airport. 
urged  all  Arab  nations  "not  to  
adopt this treasonous  line."  
Vance  was  greeted  here  by  

let them have a right to speak." to Israel "not to negotiate with, nor He said: "I believe that as long as to have private meetings with the the American people are educated PLO until after that organization and knowledgeable about the recognizes Israel's right to exist." threat of these organizations, t\lat The PLO is recognized by most that is the best way to stamp them Arab governments as the sole out.'' representative of the Palestinian 
He said that he·has a commitment people. 


ATTENTION SMC. OFF-CAMPUS 
General Meeting 7:00pm Monday, Sept. 25 Stapleton Important info and news · Be therel followed by: 
8:00pm Stapleton "Rape Preuention "· a special program especially for 0-C students. Refreshments· Refreshments Refreshments 
fRli Ut-\\~tRS 


~\ ~\~BARMABY.'So"' 
Grape Road & Edison ~ Straight down Edison, 2 miles fro~ campus -you can't mlsa ltl Quick Service on Noon Lunches Serving Pizza* Sandwiches* Soft Drinks 
Cold drafts by the Stein,Jumbo glass and Pitcher,Dark beer on draft 
Carry -Outs .•• Phone 256-0928 Open 11· am-11:30 pm Mon. thru Thurs.--Fri. & Sat. 11-12:30 OPEN SUNDAY 4 PM 'TIL 10 PM ,------------------­
1 
I 
I 

/.--...~,nRNABY'S 715 E. Jeffe11on, S Bendl 
~--·--I

SQme Hou11, 1 
I 

SQme Friendly Service I 
I 


288-4981 
COUPON 

'1.00 OFF ON ANY 10" PIZZA 
COUPONS GOOD THRU OCTOBER 31,1978 
soc OFF ON ANY 14" PIZZA 
Limit 1 coupon per Pizu 

Monday, September 25, 1978
the observer 

an evening with--­



Neil toung 
Crazy Horse 
Thurs, Oct. 12 Spm Notre Dame ACC 
All seats reserved $8.50 $7.50 on sale now at: ACC Box Office, 
First Bank Main Branch, Robertson's-South Bend and 
Elkhart, St. joe Bank & Branches, Boogie Records, River 
City Records, Just for the Record, Suspen?e<J <_:ord ~nd 
Elkhart Truth in Elkhart, Record jornt rn N1les 
-Corby's 1· • I 
HOWARD COSELJ..
~~····

----·---. 
.FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
From beginning kick ~ff until the final gun· 
Big Mouth Draft 35t each· 3 for ii.OO Mixed Drinks 7~t each All Canned Beer 60¢ each 

CII4A CHRISTMAS CARD DESIGNS 
-are now being accepted deadline for submitting is Oct. 3 **************************** 
D . ************ 
es•gns must be ********* -Hmited to one color **** -drawn to size 4 1/4in by 5 1/2in 
Please submit to: 
BOB FULTON 250 Alumni 8810 
BARB WARD 117 Walsh 3096 
Now get the best Pizza In town 
College education begins early for Simon's Rock students 
GREAT. BARRINGTON, MA [AP] -When Andre\t Beaman• became bored with high school at the age of 16, he dropped out. But he didn't get a job or hang around street corners. He went to college. 
Beaman, of Jackson, Mich., is like hundreds of students who enter college after their sophomore year of high school instead of waiting until they finish their senior year. Last year, over 1 million students took Advanced Placement Exami­nations for college entry. 
But unlike a growing number of young students who have gone on to college without completing their high school years, Beaman went to a four-year college speci­fically designed fol' this .type of student: Simon's Rock Early College. 
"Only 10 percent of our students have completed high school before entering," said Dr. Samuel H. Magill, president of the small liberal arts college in Great Bar­rington, Mass. "Students who come here are usually good solid 
------~-----------------granted to acquaint subscribers 
OPEN HOUSE 
SMC Counseling S Career Development Center 

Student Affairs Wing -leMans Hall Monday , Sept. 25 9: *Register for Campus Recruiting* 
monbay ntqht t:ootsatt BeeR Spectal.s! ! 
Watch the qaJn€ on OUR 7 rt. tv SCQ€€11 
across ~rom campus Vtew 


·Ctoss Countty Ski Sale 
4Lt~ 

Atea'a Ctoaa Countty Skiing and Back Packing Specialists 
'B' or better students in high school. Like Beaman, most are inquisitive and eager to accelerate the educational process. Thats why they want to begin college early." 
"I was feeling stifled," recalls Beaman. "I was at a large school and the classes were too big. It just wasn'tacademicallychallenging. I wanted to get into an area that would be stimulating and to meet interesting people." 
Beaman's complaints are similar to those of other students, Magill says. "Some bright children feel out of sync with their classmates and their schools' curricula. Other are good 'A' and 'B' students who just find classes are too large and stultifying." 
At Simon's Rock the classes are small, usually numbering four to 12 students and sometimes as few as three. All the classes are seminars. There appears to be mounting evidence that high school students are seeking alternatives to the lock-step educational process that requires four years of high school 

and four years of college, educators 
agree. 
"It's no surprise that students are looking for alternatives," Dr. Janet Lieberman of LaGuardia Commu­nity College in New York City recently told educators attending the annual meeting of the Amer­ican Association of Higher Educa­tion. 
Quoting a Carnegie Foundation study, she said, "The report found that 30 percent or more of the academic content of the senior year in high school is repeated in the freshman year in college." 
Observerextends complimentary issues 
Observer subscribers from spring 1978 will be extended complimentry issues of the paper until October 1. The extension was 
with the new mailing system which was installed this past week. Any comments would be appreciated. 
Please direct them to:  Circulation  
Dept.,  Box  Q,  Notre  Dame,  IN  
46556.  

Subscribers to The Observer did not receive their issues for the first weeks in September due to difficul­ties in the mailing system. The problem is no~ solved. Subscri­bers are reminded that in order to avoid confusion and delay, the local Post Office should be notified that The Observer is sent second class . 
delivered right to your door, "Where Piua is A/ways in Good Taste!" 
nightly from 6-10 pm. 
401 N· HICKORY &a WIDE SCREEN FOOTBALL! TOWN & COUNTRY MALL 
2216 Miami 272-0945 (Miami & Ewingt.
HAPPY HOURS! Mon.-Fri., 5-7pm So. Bend 233-8383
Mug of Stroh's or Pabst, just 25$ 
,.,
' 
-----~~......----,.~~~­

Monday, September 25, 1978 the ObServer 5 
Second City: 'Prime Rib' at Its Best 
proposition. Marty Frye, a Walter Mitty character, does his best to moderate the discussion, while Councilman Russ Levine, construction worker Ginetti, and the oh-so­devout Mrs. O'Goody battle it out. Ginetti, in proper blue-collar fashion, thinks the program would "encourage a certain amount of ... doln' among the kids." Mrs. O'Goody says, "The same people who put sex education in school took the prayers out." Levine cites his own statistics regarding the consequences of sexual ignorance: there will be "oodles and oodles" of people in the future if we don't start on Zero Population Growth now, and there are "gobs and gobs" of teenagers afflicted with VD. The football coach, however, thinks the money allotted for sex education programs should go toward two-man whirlpools in the sports depart­ment. 
Likewise, the bit about the parent-teacher conference is another example ofthe astute perception of the Second City players. The dedicated, wholesome Miss Williams calls together a group of parents whose children are failing in her class in the hopes of enlighteningthe folks to the problem. The parents, unfortunately, act little better than their offspring through their childish actions and flippant remarks. At one point, the football coach asks another father, "Hey, what's 'phonics'?" The man replies, "A place in Arizona." In her frustra~ion, Miss Williams ends up making the parents repeat in unison: "I will not waste the teachers' time....I will not waste the teacher's time." 
Fortunately, Second City has finally compiled an (almost) all-new revue. Although their old skits were excellent, they become too predictable and hack­neyed through constant repetition. For them to hang on to age-old material such as the "Greatest Hits of the Eleventh Century" and the "Van Kamps Baked Bean Death" seems almost a rejection of their creativity, for with each change of cast, the troupe develops sharper observa­tions of society in every updated show. 
It is indeed unfortunate that Second City cannot visit more often to offer their intellectually sophisticated brand ·of comedy. They are truly an entertaining and innovative group. One can be assured that their new members now touring with this two-hour "prime-ribbing" will one day join their counterparts--Mike Nichols, David Steinberg, Elaine May, and Harold 
Ramis --in  the  heights  of  the  comedy  
world.  
Cindy McKJel  


"Ladies and gentlemen, Second City has just left the building." 
With that, Chicago's foremost satire group had concluded their third visit to O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The audience filed out, laughing: "Hey, did you catch that one about ... ?" or "Remember when they ... ?" 
Once again, it looked as if the group had scored highly with the students. The troupe managed to maintain that stinging sardonic wit, keeping in fine tradition with their previous revues. Second City focused on some of our greatest faults and failings. From the sixty-second vignettes to the regular sketc!les, the six-member group reminded us how to laugh at ourselves and relive the hilarity of our weaker moments. 
One of the best illustrations of this was the sketch in which Don Hunter of "Newscenter 8" brings us the evening news. He reads one of the bigger items of the night: the sun will go super nova (collide with the earth) in eight and one-half minutes. Panic seizes him and his two anchormen. As people would be apt to do in their last remaining moments, th~y bid a public farewell and at the same time, reveal a few of their innermost thoughts. Don apologizes to his wife for all the extramarital affairs he's had in the newsroom, but sharply enumerates the instances where she's "been far from perfect herself." Murray finally vocalizes his deep-seated feelings of rejection, thanking Don and Kim for standing by him. The other two anchormen meet this gratitude with "Well, actually, Murray, we've always hated your guts." The viewing audience also sees and hears Kim the sportscaster blast Herman Franks and the Cubs for what could have been for him a promising career. Unfortunately, when the anchormen reread their shocking news item aloud once more, they discover that the sun is going super nova in eight and one-half millenia, not minutes. 
Second City has cited perhaps an extreme example ofoneof our greatest mistakes, the epitome of unretractable statements. We laugh because we can see ourselves making the same faux pas that the characters have. What is more, the characters seem almost real: we've all seen or known personally people like the elitist district councilman and his own brand of political bull, or the young executive expressing his not-too-vague impressions of a young woman's anatomy, or an Irish priest trying to make sense out of his own one a.m. "Reflections." 
In addition to exposing our laughable foibles, Second City satirizes virtually anything and everything: the media, parent-teacher conferences, and sexuality, just to name a few topics. One of the most hilarious sketches involve the "Sexual Crisis Clinic," whose patients include a bulgy-eyed flasher in a checkered rainhat and trenchcoat, lashing his tongue like a crazed snake; a thumb-sucking marria,ge counselor embarrassed by sex; and a keypunch operator who gets her kicks out of lifting her skirt for all to see. We explore their frustrations as the poor analyst helps them make terribly futile attempts to solve their problems. 
Another brilliant sketch is the "Five Minutes to Live By" meditation. Here we join Father Michael Murray, who chooses to read a letter from Paul to the Ephesians: "Dear Ephesians, How are you? I am fine. Why don't you come on down to Rome sometime? Your buddy, Paul." Father Murray concludes with a second reading-­from the Book of Chrysanthemums. 
Second City takes us to the Grand Ole Opry, where a country-western trio shares with us their thoughts on sado-masochism. They read a letter from a fan whose husband has lost all interest in her and wants to turn their bedroom into a Bible college. The group responds with a musical ditty about "too much sex and violence on TV and not enough at home.'' Afterward, "Bob Avellini" (Chicago Bears quarterback) advertises Harlequin Ro­mances, gushing that they offer him an escape from the "mundane world of touchdowns and interceptions." 
Perhaps the most true-to-life sketches involve the American educational system. Oddly enough, their main focus is not on the system itself, but on those involved with it--parents and educators. In the first part of the show, the players revive their classic school board meeting whose discus­sion revolves around the sex education 

Great New Theatre· at Buddies 




lobotom!l by p. bytnea 
Monday and Tuesday evening will see a unique schedule of theatrical art at Vegetable Buddies. The production, presented by Chariot Productions, a com­posite of ND-SMC Theatre grads Dan Duncheon, Jack Campbell, and Aubrey Payne, will feature local artists in. a potpourrioflive theatre, music, and poetry. 
The performance tonight and tomorrow will mark the eighth by Chariot Produc­tions since June. Each previous produc­tion, including Kopit's "Oh Dad, PO® Dad," Witkiewicz' s "The Madman and the Nun," and Wilson's "The Hot L Bal­timore" has met with exceptional re­sponse, both popularly and critica11y. Audience attendance has consistently in­creased as the name Chariot Productions has circulated. Critica11y, South Bend Tribune reviewer Carla Hoffman has proclaimed a recent production and the entire concept of the Vegetable Buddies based cabaret theatre "brilliant" and "the start of something big in South ~nd." 
Tonight's production is a departure from Chariot's normal format as it will feature original scripts and music by local and ND-SMC artists. Headlining the event are three one-act plays by Julie Jensen, professor of acting at Notre Dame. who is presently directing the major production "Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander." "Puppies," "The Little Show," and "Cockelburrs and Milkweed" were written in 1972, '75, '76 and were initially performed by Ms. Jenson and Mary Roberts in the Detroit area. Each play is a South Bend premiere. 
Jensen's scripts are under the direction of ND-SMC film and theatre professor Miles Coiner. 
~arilyn Bellis and Diana Hawfield star in each play. Ms. Bellis is a local talent making her debut with Chariot, while Ms. Hawfield, the ND-SMC costumer, has already made a name for herself at Vegetable Buddies as the "Professor of Everything" in William Saroyan's "The New Play." 
Jazz accompaniment will be provided by Lenny Michaels, keyboard artist for Cit­izen's Band. 
Other events on the agenda will include music by Aubrey Payne and Steve Rogers, both products of the ND-SMC theatre, and a poetry reading by local poet Ron Wray. 
Bring a friend and take advantage of a $1.50 pitcher special and a reduced student admission of $1.50. Performance time both nights is 8:30. For information, cal1 234-1431. 

,. 


Horoscope
Horoscope for Sept. 24-30 
By GINA Digest News Sen·lce 
ARIES: (Mar.•h 21 to April 19) IJ:'Ie high f'nert..'Y to push toward upllmlstlc goal11. Active sports are favored and taking the Initiative to make career con. tacts. Avoid Impulsive decisions regarding finances. Be reallstlc and plan carefully. TAURUS: (AprU 20 to May 20) You could turn a hobby Into an Income producing job. Use your artistic ability which Is heightened now. Market your talents! Be discreet about any romantic contacts. Be content with your Income-don't get greedy. GEMINI: (May 21 to June ZO) An active time when enjoyable trips and outings could occupy your time. Social activity with a group brings pleasure. Family situations Improve due to your efforts. A serious romance could blossom now. CANCER: (June 21 to July 22) Your Intuition Is heightened and rellable-llsten to your hunches and dreams. Home Im­provements and decorating are favored. Just bt> sure you don't overspend and put a dent In your budget. A raise or promotion Is possible. LEO: (July ZS to Aug. ZZ) Stay on the job and get chores done at home and at work. Resist ten­dency to procrastinate. One who turns you on romantically at this 
lime  may  not  live  up  to  your  
expectations  so  proceed  with  
caution.  

VIRGO: (Aug. 28 to Sept. ZZ) Opportunities for career ad­vancement require thoughtful consideration. Take your time and think It over carefuily. Seek the advice of wiser or older friend. You may sign an im­portant contract or agreement. LIBRA: (Sept. ZS to Oct. ZZ) Unexpected gains In Income are possiblE'! due to your efforts In the past. Your personality sparkles and others are magnetically attracted to you. Curb Impulse to buy things you don't need and be extravagant. SOORPIO: (Oct. !S to Nov. Zl) Resist the tendency to coast by on past accompUshments. Exert your efforts toward top per­formance today! Ponder your 
goals and make your plans In a 
reallstic way. Don't rely too 
much on help from others. 
SAGITTARIUS: (Nov. ZZ to Dec. 
21) You may be feeling excessive now In all matters. Dlscipltne yourself financially, with food and drink, and overextending yourself at work. Adopt the moderate course In all things. Be tolerant of others. CAPRIOORN: (Dec. Z2 to Ju. 
19) Communications are ac­cented. Letters from loved ones and spirited, Instructive con· versattons bring you joy. Social life within a group Is very fulftlllng and you should have a feellng of adjustment and well­being. AQUARIUS: (Jan. ZO to Feb. 18) You're In the llmellght now, feeling confident and dynamic. Don't come on too strong, though, or you alienate others. Keep business and domestic matters separated as much as possible. Legal affairs should go well. PISCES: (Feb. It to March !0) Your Intuition Is high and you could be sensing changes that are coming. Be sure all the facts are In and that you are not mis­reading another person's actions. in discussions, defer to your mate or partner now. 
46-post 13 Caressed ACROSS 48 Certain sandwiches 14 Anesthetics 1 Ruin the reputation 49 Wandering 18 Imitated a crow 
of  50 West German state  23 Hitchcock's "­ 
10 Juicy fruit  54 Mr. Grant  Curtain"  
15 At stake {3 wds.)  55 Winter weather  24 Named  
16 Do construction  index (2 wds.)  26 Comedian Louis  
work  58 Dodge  27 Big crowd  
17 O'Neill play  59 Certain odds  28 Forgo  
( 3 wds. )  ( 3 wds . )  34 Liquid measure  
19 Male sheep (Br.)  60 Fleur-­ (abbr.) 
20 Acute  61 The qua1 i ty of  35 "A wrong'd thought  
21 "-Fideles"  being lean or thin  will break -of  
22 Give off  steel "-Chapman  
24 Tornado  36 Part of the foot  
25 Rambled (2 wds.)  DOWN  (2 wds.)  
27 In the middle, for  1 Old World bird  37 Floating structures  
short  2 Cruel  38 Expungements  
29 Madison Avenue  3 Enter (2 wds.)  39 Keyboard interval  
output  4 --square  41 Was in a dither  
30 Journal item  5 Be apprehensive  42 Reach a destination  
31 Like some college  6 Robert - 43 "­Knowledge"  
courses  7 -novel  44 Shows pain  
32 Sierra - 8 -instant  47 -Warbucks  
33 eager's target  (at once)  50 One of the Bowery  
34 Park in Quebec  9 Providence TV  boys  
39 Nine, in Venice  station  51 Famous middle name  
40 Galahad's garb  10 Star of "The Heart-52 Southwest wind  
41 Cul-de-­ break Kid"  53 Appraise  
44 Entertained, in  11 Frosts  56 No -, ands, or  
part  12 Zoroastrian  buts  
45 Climbing plant  writings  57 Swindle  




br Michael Molinelli 

Come Ride With Us! J6 
TURNING LEAVES CENTURY/60/40/20 MILES 
EQWARDSBURGH, MI Timed to catch peak 
Fall color. Start 7•30 -Noon E.D.T. 
from Edwardsburg, H.S. Registration 
$3.50. Patch and refreshments.free. 
Exceptionally smooth roads, scenic 
country• rolling hills, forests, 
numerous lakes. Information and 
entry forms from Mrs~ Arlene Vogt, 
Registrar's Office, Main Bldg. or 
Marv Scher, Phone (219) #272-8700. 
fl' -~ 
MCAT. DiT~LSAi'. GMAT~~ PCAT·ORE·OCAT·VAT· SAT 
1MB I, II, III·ECFMO·FLEI·VQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Our Centers & See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
LSAT, UAT & GRE~~-f{ Classes MPUIN 
-EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
now forming S~~~:L:-:TE:;::.~T~~~38 
call 291-3150 



Integration plan begins peacefully 
LQS ANGELES [API -White 
students are attending Los Angeles public schools in slightly higher numbers since the start of an integration program this fall, but opponents of court-ordered busing 'say white attendance will fall far short of school officials' expecta­
tions. 
The busing of 62,000 fourth­
through-eighth graders in the 
nation's second largest school dis­
trict began peacefully Sept. 12 as 
part of an integration plan that 
emerged after court cases spanning 
15 years. 
At first the buses carried only a 
few white youngsters across the 
711-square-mile school district, 
from the predominantly white San 
Fernando Valley to inner-city 
minority schools. Since then 
attendance by white students has 
increased daily, but the district's 
own figures released last week 
indicate thousands are staying at 
home or are illegally enrolled in 
neighborhood schools. 
About 4,100 white students were 
being bused by court order to 
predominantly minority "ex­
change" schools. That figure is 
about half the number now ex­
pected, but only a third of the 
number the district had planned for 
when it set up the integration 
program. In contrast, about 10,000 
black and Mexican-American 
students traveled to valley schools 
each day last week. 
Weight-Lifters 
to meet in ACC 
The Notre Dame Weight-Lifting 
Club will hold an organizational 
meeting tomorrow at 5 p.m. in the 
ACC Weight Room. 
The purpose of the meeting will 
be to elect officers and to discuss 
the future plans of the club. 
For further information, contact 
Mark Hug at 288-1615. 
Deaf mute falls five stories 
SEATI'LE, [API • A deaf mute 
fell five stories down an elevator 
shaft and apparently spent three 
days trying to crawl 75 feet for 
help, authorities said yesterday. 
Seattle police said a passerby 
found Joseph D. Heller, 33, bloody 
and swollen, in a doorway Satur­
day. He was reported in serious 
condition yesterday at Harborview 
Medical Center with head injuries 
and fractures of the neck, pelvis, 
ribs, arm and leg. 
"I am amazed that he made it," 
said police Sgt. Floyd Walker. 
"The torture he went through must 
have been unbelievable." 
Officer Daniel Fordice said Heller, 
in barely readable scrawl, wrote 
"three days" on a piece of paper 
when asked when he had fallen. 
"It's evident that he had been 
there for that long," Ford ice said. 
"He had blood on his side and it 
was long dried." 
Police traced the trail Heller 
apparently had followed through 
dust and debris in the warehouse­
type building. Before even reach­
ing the floor level, Heller had to 
climb 4 to 5 feet out of the pit at the 
bottom of the elevator shaft. 
Fordice said it was an amazing 
feat, considering the man had a 
broken neck. 

------,~-----------------.­
Monday, September 25, 1978 

the observer 



Correspondent reports conspiracy in JFK case 
conspiracy linked to Texas multi­
MOSCOW [AP] -Soviet televi­
millionaire H.L. Hunt.
sion viewers were told Sunday that 
Zorin said, "According to every­
the assassination of President John 
thing that is known, persons from
F. Kennedy was a conspiracy and 
the CIA and FBI had a hand in this 
involved more than one assassin. 
crime."
The program made no mention of 
The program showed Zorin
Lee Harvey pswald's links with the 
standing beside an open window at
Soviet Union and Cuba. 
the book depository in downtown
Oswald, whom the Warren Com­
Dallas, from which Oswald was
mission concluded acted alone in 
alleged to have fired at Kennedy.
the 1963 assassination, had previ­
"The report that from this place
ously lived for several years in the 
he, Oswald managed to made
Soviet Union and later tried to visit 
several sniper shots at a moving
Cuba. 
target is on the verge of fantasy ­
Soviet television correspondent 
or, putting it' more precisely,
Valentin Zorin, discussing the ass­
beyond the verge of fantasy," the
assination as part of an hour-long 
Soviet correspondent told view­
program about Dallas, Texas, 
claimed the killing stemmed from a ers. 
Yamaha uses womenpower 
TOKYO, [API -An experiment woman are considered skillful at 
begun last year by Yamaha Motor precision work 11nd that tradition­
Co. to operate a motorbike factory ally they earn less than men. The 
with women workers has proved a women earn $9000 a year at the 
roaring success. factory--about one-third less than 
With some degree of apprehension their male counterparts. 
women were put on the assembly When the experiment was 
lines, as one official said, "to make launched in January 1977, the 
better use of womanpower." company management feared pro-
He said the women had won the ductivity would drop if only women 
admiration of their male colleagues operated the factory. Their fears 
when the all-woman factory pro-have proved groundless and there 
duced 175,000 minibikes last year, are now plans to increase the 
25,000 more than initially planned. number of female workers, Ishida 
"They are making ladies' bikes so said. 
it makes sense that ladies should The factory started with 70 women 
build them," said overseas depart-but this has increased to 120, he 
ment spokesman Hitoshi Ishida. said. 
Another reason may be that At present the factory is geared -.,....-....-..~-.......~~~w~-----_,._,.,. toward the domestic market and there are plans to put the women on larger and more powerful bikes
Classifieds in the future, Ishida said. 
Zorin said: ''The first bullet hit According to another version, he fact that each small detail was the president in the throat. Such a said, "snipers were hidden in a taken into account demonstrates 
covered water hatchway along the not only the existence of a plot totrajectory from the window ­road. After firing the nearly get rid of the 35th president of thelocated behind the car -was point-blank shots at the president, United States, but also the power ofimp9ssible. 
''The other shots which hit the the killers closed the hatchway and the forces which stood bebbul.IL"' president were obviously made not 
escaped along an underground He hinted that the reason for from a distance, but from close 
route." Hunt's alleged involvement may up,'' he said. 
''Oswald was assigned to play · have been an "invisible economic Zorin said according to different the role of the fall guy," Zorin I war" between O)d moneyed versions, gunmen may have been contended. interests in the Northeast and hiding behind a fence or on top of a He said, "The subtleness of the newly rich "oil barons" of the railway overpass. preparation of the murder and the Southwest. 
Howdy Castellini's tailgaters have provided pre-game refreshments for years now. Saturday's Michigan tailgater was just one more successful addition to the series. [Photo by Cate Magennis]. 
Urgent: Need 2 GA to any home games.

I need 4 Purdue GA tickets $$$ Call1786 
Pay big money. Call 283-1951 PERSONALS

Need 7 GA's for Tennessee Call Bil( 
t IRA activists, Fresh from the Front,

8604 
want to see 2things in lifetimes: Freedom Regina sisters: Afew more rehearsals and NO kill Tennessee. 5 Tennessee or 2 and we will be ready for Tijuana. Let usBig Money Murf needs Purdue and Pitt Miami $$ Call Mike 35!16 or 35!16 call you sweethearts. Dan and the 1OAtickets. Call after 5:00 234-8858 
Singers Need two GA tickets for Pittsburgh. Call Need 2 Miami GA tix-Call Tim at 1771 
Chump, this birthday coupon entitles you
John 3419 ' 
to one fun-filled eventng of fooling
Wanted: one student football ticket for 

around. Redeem as soon as possible, I'mHELP, I NEED PURUDE TICKETS!! Call Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243. 
always ready! Love, Stif
Anne 114236 Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay big 
ATIENTIONMust have 2-4-GA Pitt tickets. Susan bucks· or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8150. 

All fans of the Laura Ruddy Fan Club,
4-H407 
Emergency meeting, Tues. 4 pm at
Needed! 1 GA tickets for the Pittsburgh

Wanted: 2-4 GA tix for Purdue. Please Dlno'a
game. Please call Marie before 9 am or

help! I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731 
after 11 pm. 233-6543 Will pay$$$$$$$ 

Tennis and Racquetball Rackets Strung Help wanted: Anastasios Restaurant 1611 professionally at affordable prices. Joe
Need GA Purdue tix. Steve 8422

S. Main St. Calf: 234-3258 Welcome Montroy, 1469 ND-SM C students!! !! Ill 
Mom and Dad desperately need 2 Purdue 

Interested In attending the WOMEN's
tickets. Call dan 8252

Need 2 GA Purdue tickets for Boss Call ORDINATION CONFERENCE? Bait­Don 1384 more, Nov. 1D-12. Contact the CCUM 
Need Purdue tix, Student or GA Call1842 office. 1112 Memorial Library. Desperately need 4 GA tix for Pitt game. 
Need 4 GA's to any Home game. $$$

Will pay top$$$ Call Mike 8422 Danny,
Andy 28~9498 Te qulero sin fin. Tienes Todo ml Experienced male or female Bartenders corazon todo el tiempo. Waiters or Waitresses, also Dishwashers FOR RENT Mary at the University Club. Come in person or call 7093 "House for rent. 5 large private Skipper and Freddy will be at the 
bedrooms. All furnished. $300.00 Homecoming Dance. Will you? I need GA's or student tickets for Purdue permonth, plus utilities and deposit. Gas game Please Help! Call Mike 1219 heat. Call 287-1543 8 to 5, Mr. De S&M personal column: ~.;onlgra·!ulalUOIIilf 

Rouck." MJ. If anyone deserved I need 2GA Purdue tix will pay your price the S&M column it's you. So tell us, Call Russ at 8n2 true that you wear your studded
FOR SALE 

wear Inside out? Sounds tingly from Need 4 GA's for Pitt Call Dave 1209 TB
Football season tickets for sale 2~748

Part Time Work Available. If you are pleasant and have a nice voice, we have a 
'76 MGB, 22,000 miles under $4000.

few openings setting appointments in our 
2~9818 or 233-8182

busy South Bend Store. Hours flexible. Call 233-1181 Ask for Marsha 
'76 Mustang II, Cobra II, VB 4 speed, stereo, under $4000, 2~9818 or 233­

Need 2 Purdue Student tickets. Call Jeff 
8182 

at #1735 
Addressers Wanted lmmedlltBIYI worK 'It Mustand II, Mach I, V6, 4 speed, at home,.no experience necessary--ex­stereo, $2400, 2~9818 or 233-8182 
cellent pay. Write American Service, 8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX. '#-Jeep CJ-7 Renegade 10,000 miles. 75231 
28~9818 or 233-8182 

Need GA tix for Purdue and Pitt. Call Joe For Sale: Dunlop Max Ply fort brand new 1478 4 5/8 with synthetic but worth 60.00. 
asking 35.00. Down jacket, men's red Need 2 G.A. Purdue tickets. Call Jeff large, $30.00: Set of vintage pre-1960 golf 1479 irons or imitation bamboo shafts, and 
woods plys new golf bag -35.00 Call Anxious for 2 Pitt tickets for Mom and Mark at 8551 after 7 p.m. Dad. Call Matt 234·2354 
DOES YOUR WARDROBE HAVE THE Wanted: GA tix to Tennessee. Call Ericx BACK1TO,SCHOOL BLUES? Dress It up 
1384 with 14-18 Karat Gold Jewelry ! Call 
Marylin for adisplay of exquisite chains Please! Family coming to Purdue game: bracelets, rings, etc... 3848 ' Need 4 tix. Leslie 5347 
NO faculty member selling 1970 Chrysler Anxious for 2 Pitt tickets for Mom and Excellent running condition Roomy $850. Dad, call Matt 234-2354 288-6013 
Need GA's to Pitt. Money no object! Call Hofner (McCartney) Bass Guitar; almost Tom 2n-1071 -brand new. 288-6013 

NOTICES 
Penny Saver Is the most worthless printing operation in the civilized world. If you ever wonder why the 0bserver is late call 288-1411 and ask for Bill Dobslauwhy. 
Organizational Meeting Society for Jun­gian/Archetypal Psychology Sunday, Oc­tober 1 7:30P.M. Wilson Commons 
Morrissey Loan Fund Student Loans $20,$150 1 percent Due in 30 days 1 day wait LaFortune Basement M-f 11:30-12:30 
Be ready! The New Tech Review Calen­dars are coming! 
Mink coat 36", preofessionally ap­praised. 277,5828/283-6558 office G-221 Memorial Library. 
Boarding for geldings and mares, cover­ed arena, use of trailer one mile from Notre Dame. 
Gardeners: Excellent horse manure, free for loan of truck, one mile from Notre Dame. 
All ND-SMC students from Georgia (especially metro-Atlanta area) interested in forming club. (Rides, parties) call Sue:4-1-4407 
Special Discount to All NO and SMC students on Automotive parts. All you need is your 10 card. Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric 1101 E. Madison So. Bend 
Experienced Typist-Fast Service-Re­ports, papers, resumes,. etc. Call 287­6407. 
NOTRE DAME EAT YOUR HEART OUT!! Dancin' Irish Bake ~le Wed. Sept. 27 in the La­Fortune, Lunchtime (11 till they last!) 
Episcopalians: Anglican Eucharist offered Wednesdays 3:30 p.m. Grace Hall Chapel. 
Contact Lens Wearers. Save on brand name hard or soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens 
Supplies,85011  Box 7453,  Phoenix,  Arizona  
LOST & FOUND  

Found: pair of glasses behind Stepan Center. Photo-Gray with brown frames. Contact the Observer and identify them and they're 'yours again 
Found: one pair of Dr. Scholl's at St. Picnic on Friday Sept. 8 Call Barb 7953. 
Fm j: War gold band ring with inst ption u 'alkway in front of Ma .leva on . ·.nesday Sept. 13. Call 78i (Andrea .:J identify.
-
Lost: ladies' gold watch (Wittnauer Geneve) on Wednesday Sept 20 around 
9:30 am Lost somewhere on road around tennis courts on the way to Hayes-Healy Center. If found, please call 272-7445. Watch has sentimental value and will offer reward. 
Lost Parker fountain pen silver with gold point and clip Call 1693 Reward 
Lost: plastic green bender in the book­store on Friday Sept 15. Contains Syllabus for 3 courses and some very important information. If found please call #7889 
Found: 1 calculator in 117 Hayes Healy Hall. Turned into Lost and Found in 'ad Bldg. 
Lost· Texas Instrument SR-51 Calculator Call Karen 4692 SMC 
WANTED Want Pitt GA tix Call Herman 1398 
Sister's Wedding! Need ride to Ft. Wayne Friday 29th Early in the day. 234-1823 Leave message. 
My Tennesses kinfolk are coming Nov. 
11. Need 2 GA's and 4-5 more, GA's or students. Call Chris at 1764 
Wanted: Tickets to day and all remaining home games. Call 3498. Ask for Marty or Mark 
Needed-purdue G.A. tix-Call John 1874 
LSAT tutor wanted to teach small-classes. Excellent pay. Call collect (317) 463-7541 
Needed Purdue GA tickets Call 8432 
Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets. 
Chuck 289-6721 
Need Pitt tickets, student or GA will trade Purdue or Tenn. GA's or$$ Greg 1128 
Help me prove to my father the YALE grad that we can play football too! Big Bucks for 2 GA, 1 student Purdue tix. Call Bill at 1763 
HELP WANTED Station attendent need­ed. Experience preferred. Evenings and weekends. Apply in person. Mike's Maple Lane Amoco 18492 St. Road 23 
Desperately Need 2 GA tickets for Tennessee and 5 others for any home games. Call John at 6934. 
Needed! Purdue tickets! Call 2-5754. Sue. Pay Bucks 
Need 1or 2GA Purdue tickets. Money no problem. Call Tom 3010 
Need student ticket for Purdue Will Pay well 3508 

Monday, September 25, 1978
the observer 
Wolverines crush Irish in 28-14 win 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
Led by the second half heroics of quarterback Rick Leach, the fifth ranked Wolverines overcame a seven point halftime deficit to crush the Irish, 28-14, before a packed house at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Things looked bright for the home team when Harlan Huckleby presented a house warning present Scott Zettek, playing for the first time since knee surgery, recovered the ball at the Wolverine 17 setting up the first scoring opportunity of the afternoon. 
Three play later Notre Dame scored their first points of the 1978 season as Joe Montana passed to tight end Dennis Grindinger, who made his first career varsity reception good for six points. 
For Michigan, it was a half they were going to want to forget and intermission. The Wolverine of­fense looked much like the offense Notre Dame used against Missouri, full of fumbled, overthrown and dropped passes. Rick Leach start­ed out abysmally as an aggressive Notre Dame defense pressured him into 3-14 passing for 21 yards in the first stanza. 
While Michigan managed yards only by Leach's head bobbing, the Montana led squad cut through the Michigan front line and with the as he led a running drive to the ND four yard line before Leach dove in to knot the score at 7-7. 
Notre Orne wasted no time in retailiating as Montana effectively mixed the pass with consistent running by Jerome Heavens and Vagas Ferguson to mount the Irish's most successful drive of the short season. Ferguson did the honors following Dave Huffman up the middle to cap the 75 yard drive that game ND a 14-7 halftime think Notre Dame ever recovered.'' 

Leach laid the Irish hopes to rest when he combined with Marsh again for 18 yards and the score. The left-handed quarterback proceeded to connect on five of six passes in the second half including three touchdown strikes. The third and final scoring pass covered 40 yards as wingback Ralph Clayton beat Joe Restic in a footrace across the middle of the field and easily hauled in Leach's accurate toss. 
in the form of a fumble on the finally succeeded in wiping out help of a well placed Joe Restic advantage.
., 
A saddened Devine offered no
opening play from scrimmage. of their minds during halftime punt kept Michig~n deep in their As all things must come to an 
excuses after the game.
end, so did Leach's slump as the 

....:1-.. "Michigan beat us fair and square . 
Reisman candidate proceeded to They're a fine football team. Ibe as effective in the second half as complained rather vehemently inhe was inaccurate in the opening the first half about the bobbing of 

two quarte~. 

the quarterback's head but thatThe ligh(s went out on the Irish didn't beat us.'' Devine went on tooffense after Montana fumbled a analyze, "Offensively they camehandoff after an inopportune time­up with the big play in the secondout that halted a SO-yard drive deep half although I don't think theyinto Michigan's territory. On this made any major changes. Our field key situation Coach Dan Devine position was such that we gotlater commented, "It was a bad forced out of our game plan."
time to call a timeout. Montana With the team statistics fairlywasn't sure about the play that was even, five Notre Dame turnoverscalled and felt he had to call it. It stood out in their downfall. 

was a mistake that seemed to hurt Montana participated in three ofour momentum." 

the mistakes as he fumbled o~eIf it didn't hurt Devine's team, it and completed 16 of 29 passes b!Jt
did seem to perk up the 

had two intercepted.
Wolverines. The second half of the "Harlan Huckleby Show" began as 

Notre Dame's record drops to the fleet footed tailback slashed for 
0-2. The Irish have not been 0-2 since 1963, when a Hugh Devorefive yards a try opening up the air lanes for Leach who converted 
coached team finished the season three of three third down plays and 
with a 2-7 record. "We're off to a start that none oftied the score by hitting tight endLeach hits Ralph Clayton for his third TD pass. [Photo by Doug Christian]. 
us are used to. We've got a goodGreg Marsh wide open in the end
Ray 0'Brien:=================:::;::====::=:=:=::;:;:;::=:=:=::;:;:;::=::;:;:;::=:=:::=:::=:::==:======================================= own territory. However, Notre zone. football team. I don't want to make alibis, we just haven't gotten off to 
Dame muffed their chanced to On NO's next possession Jerry score again late in the first quarter Meter stepped in front of a weakly 
a good year," offered Devine as Kris Hianes dropped a pass and thrown Montana pass and scamp­The Irish face Purdue at home
The Turning Point 
Joe Unis followed it up with a ered 14 yards to set up his team's next Saturday. Mark Hermann and 
blocked field goal from 32 yards go-ahead score. the Boilermakers have gotten off to out. "The key play in the game was 
a 2-0 start and are looking to
:=::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::==========:=========::::=::;:;:;:;:;:;::=::;::=::;:;:;:;:;:;::The Irish Eye.= 
Huckleby, who was to total a Meter's interception," later ex­avenge last year's come from 
Anytime a team comes from behind and wins the way Michigan did behind Irish victory. Notre Dame
game high 96 yards on the day, plained Michigan Coach BoSaturday. the press looks for a crucial situation that may have been the took things into his own hands Schembechler. "That threw the has never been 0-3. 
turning point. Often its a matter of one team physically dominating the midway through the second quarter momentum our way and I don't
other, but when twoteamstof the calibre of Michigan and Notre Dame get together, there is bound to be some strategy or game situation that turns the tide. There was one Saturday. 
Notre Dame is playing UCLA in the ACC and they run off ten straight 
Soccer team nips Michigan
points to go up by 14. The last thing Digger Phelps. wants his team to do is call a time out. The same thing is true in football, although it's not as obvious. But Dan Devine knew that his quarterback made a big mistake by Keith Connor upper left corner of Michigan's net. Michigan's goalie met the when he called a timeout with the Irish driving in the third quarter. Sports Writer The score became and remained challenge with a save. 
Notre Dame takes a seven point lead into the lockerroom at halftime and 2-1, Irish. The game ended about two subsequently moves the ball from their own 25 yard line to Michigan's 25 The Irish and the Wolverines Although this marked the end of seconds too early for halfback, yard line at the outset of the third quarter They have the momentum and a split the weekend athletic series. the Irish scoring, the offense Nauman. Nauman had broken touchdown here can clinch it (remember the Cotton Bowl Game). The The Irish soccer team started the continued to sparkle. Kevin through two defenders and was worst thing Joe Montana could have done was call a timeout thus weekend off right Friday night with Lovejoy stopped a fullback kick and about to send a shot from ten yards squelching the offensive momentum. The timeout was called because a 2-1 victory over previously unde­returned it just wide of the goal. out at the vulnerable goalie when Montana wasn't sure about a play sent in. Those kind of mental errors can feated Michigan. The Wolverines Finnegan half-volleyed the ball just the final whistle sounded. He make a difference and did as Ferguson and Montana botched the next provided Notre Dame's soccer over the crossbar. tapped it in. handoff and the Wolverines recovered. However, the Irish never team with its stiffest competition to Coach Rich Hunter praised his 
In a play that symbolized the opponents. "They were a wellrecovered as the fumble marked the beginning to an end for Devine's date this season. 
Notre Dame style of play, Tim skilled team, the best team we've
squad. Michigan's hustling style of play Nauman began a series of short, played. Luckily our defense heldThis one play typified the kind of mistakes. the defending national in the first half could not keep crisp passes at midfield. It was 'up in the first half. In the secondchampions have made in the past two games. Three personal fouls were Notre Dame scoreless for long as soccer's version of four perfectly half we put pressure on them andcalled against ND Saturday and they proved to be pivotal in the outcome. Terry Finnegan tallied with an executed consecutive pitch-outs. it was a completely differentNotre Dame was assessed with 80 yards in penalties (to 18 for Michigan) assist from Roman Klos before the Just as a Notre Dame player was game." Hunter added, "A bigon the afternoon which hurt their cause. Cheap shots have never been five minute mark. After the converged on, he _shed the ball to difference in the second half waspart of a Notre Dame game plan and more importantly these stupid opening goal however, Michigan's his teammate on his left. The play Nauman's play. If anyone
mistakes unfailingly come at the worst times. hustling intesified. Beating the The Irish have a lot of talent that hasn't been shown. But the simple Irish to the ball on their own turf, ,_s_e_t_u~p_S_a_b_itu_s_t_or_a_2_0...:y:....a_r_d_d_n_·v_e_._.=d.:ces:..:e:..::rv.:.e.:cd=-=a'--'g;z.o:..::a:::.l...:to.:cn:::i:s~g~h.::..:t,.:.h_e:....::.d:..:id::..:.._" 
1

fact is that Devine's 1978 squad cannot compare to last year's champs. they outplayed the home team. I The studs (Browner. Fry, MacAfee, Hughes and co.) are gone on both '.fhough they controlled play in the offense and defense. The leadership these All-Americans shared has not first half, the Wolverines could not been picked up. Bob Golic plays inspired defense and that hlllf of the get the scoreboard to reflect their team has faired well desoite the loss of six starters. but the offense hasr efforts. Michigan strikers had only been mediocre at best and continues to be very inconsistent. two shots on goal in the first 
The outspoken Dave Huffman could never be accused of lack of effort period. Rather than help out with but the offense needs more than an emotional leader. It is Montana that the scoring drive, Michigan waited must provide the magic and as of this point in the season, the highly for breakaway passes. The Irish' touted senior has been deficient in this quality. Mental errors like the defense was able to shut down timeout called are not supposed to be made by a Notre Dame quarterback, these one man charges at their much less a Heisman Trophy candidate. Montana's-interceptions have goal. come on powder puff passes that never should have been thrown (or With ten minutes remaining in thrown a lot earlier). It seems as though "the Monongahela Minuteman" the first half, Michigan penetrated has becme gun shy, throwing passes at times when he should have eaten the Notre Dame defense. Jim Rice, the ball. in a desperation move to stop a· 
Notre Dame can go so far on the amount of talent they have this year. breakaway striker was charged·· The offensive line and defensive secondary have shown their with tripping outside of the penalty vulnerability. A team has to learn to ma1ce up for physical deficiencies box. The penalty shot missed only with certain "extras" (i.e. green jerseys). Notre Dame is not accustomed to be called back by the referee. to having to summon these extras (for years the home crowd was enough) Michigan's Ralph Schuaser capital­but neither have they ever made so many dumb mistakes. ized on the second attempt as he 
A coach can take so mucb of the blame for his team's loss. Devine has booted in the rebounded penalty made his mistakes and is willing to take more than his share of the blame. shot. He must instill a discipline in this team if they are going to bounce back. From the opening of the second But more importantly someone like Joe Montana is going to have to lend half, Notre Dame controlled the direction to the team the way Rick Leach did for Michigan last Saturday. play on the soccer field. Michigan If a consistent force is not developed, it will continue to be a very up and was not able to keep up with the down season for the Irish this year and by the time bowl games come better conditioned and more dis­around, the downs may clearly outweigh the ups. · ciplined Irish. 
However, ND can look no farther ahead than next week and though its In a play away from the ball tough to turn things around in seven days, if the Irish~on't ftnd that extra, Michigan's goalie was called for the fans at next Saturdays game may become part of an elite group that pushing. At 61:25 Jim Sabitus ent Benson and Artis Gilmore battle it under the ~rds in the Bulls saw the only Irish squad ever lose their first three games. powered a penalty tick into tht-. -Bucks exhibition ame at the ACC. Photo b Dou Christian]. 







