
Notre Dame. NLRB 
come to agreement 

list of University inspected and 
I X 
approved off-campus housing is 
also under the charge of Price's

HPC votes to refusecomp t 
office. Price came to Notre Dame in 1969 

by Mike Ridenour Staff Reporter 

A tentative agreement has been reached between Notre Dame and the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) concerning the unfair labor practice charges against the Uni­versity. Details could not be disclosed. 
"The University cannot discuss what provisions of the agreement are until it has been finalized," 1said Thomas Bull, director of Personnel. Richard Conklin, direc­tor of Information Services, echoed Boll's comment. ••The details pertaining to the agreement could not be released due to the legal aspects involved," Conklin noted. A NLRB district director in India­napolis must finalize the agree­ment. "The University hopes the 

concerns in the haJJ will still be
The Dome staff yesterday distributed the 1977 yearbook. Today 
reported to Fr. Green in the Office 
and tomorrow students may pick up their copies in LaFortune 
of Student Affairs,'' Mason noted.
Ballroom, 1-5 p.m. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
Concerning the appointment of 
by Ann Gales News Editor 

The Hall Presidents Council 
(HPC) voted unanimously not to 
accept complimentary tickets for 
Student Union (SU) concerts next 
year in a meeting held last night. 
In discussion preceding the vote, 
Dan Darfler, HPC representative to 
the Board of Commissioners, 
announced taht the seven-member 
Board voted down a motion to 
discontinue the SU complimentary 
concert ticket policy at its meeting 
last Thursday. 
Darfler pointed out that the HPC is included in SU policy as it now stands. According to the policy, the HPC would be given four tickets per SU concert to lottery off among its members next year. 
The move to reject the tickets followed a precedent set last Sep­tember when the HPC voted 16-6 to recommend, for the first time, that the SU change its complimentary ticket policy. When the SU Board of Directors decided to continue its policy. the HPC voted once again to not accept complimentary tickets from the SU. Prior to the September vote, the HPC had traditionally participated in the SU complimentary ticket program. 
HPC Chairman Chuck DelGran­de stated, ..1 don't necessarily feel that the complimentary ticket policy is a bad idea for SU workers, but I don't think we're closely enough involved with the concerts to merit complimentary tickets." ers meeting, including Senior Bar 
In agreement with DelGrande, profits, the Council of Communica· Morrissey Hall President Ken tions and student guidelines for Kadleck commented, "Since we the selection of a new provost and aren't closely connected with the vice-president for Student Affairs. SU concerts or other SU events, I In other business, DelGrande don't see why se should receive revealed that Michael Busick, complimentary tickets." A.C.C. ticket manager, had met 
Darfler briefly summarized other with Student Body President Andy issues which were discussed at last McKenna and former HPC Chair­Thursday's Board of Commission-man J.P. Russell earlier 
..

.;.::,...._ 

tentattve agreemem wm u~ final­ized within the next several days,'· Bull stated. 
The action comes on the eve of a scheduled hearing between the University and the NLRB. The hearing has now been cancelled. 
Mike Lawrence, Assistant Busi­ness Representative of Teamsters Local 364, said he didn't know the terms of the agreement. • 'The NLRB is mailing it (a copy) to us so we cannot really make any com­
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
ments now," Lawrence stated. The original issue of the grounds­keepers unionization attempt can-' 
VOL XII, No. 130 Wednesday, May 3, 1978 not proceed until the unfair labor charges against Notre Dame have been settled. ••If the district director finalizes the agreement, the NLRB can then rule on the groundskeeper issue," Conklin 
Price new housing director 
said. 


by Kevin Richardson 

The appointment of Edmund T. Price as director of University' Housing has been made official, according to theofficeof Thomas J. Mason, vice-president of business affairs. The announcement, which was made through the office of Information Services, was· released Monday. 
Price, who stated that he ''would like to spend more time talking wjth students about their prob­lems,'' foresees no major changes in housing policy. 
The Housing Office, which has just completed an administrative change, has left the jurisdiction of the Office of Student Affairs and moved under the authority of the Office of Business Affairs. "The office will, however," Price said, "continue to be responsive to the needs of the students in every possible instance." ' Mason explained the movement of the Housing Office into his jurisdiction as "an attempt to streamline the business-related concerns of the hall." Things such as hall repairs, maintenance orders and janitorial concerns will now be under the auspices of business affairs, he said. 
"Our influence over haJJ life will be minimal and indirect," Mason said. "Non-business or social 
Tuesday to discuss the possibility of after serving as general manager of a new policy for the distribution of two high rise residence buildings at . basketball tickets. Memphis State University. Prior to 
DelGrande said that 5,000 of the his Memphis experience, Price 
ACC's 11,000 seats have been reserved for ND-SMC students each year since 1967. Faculty members have been given priority over students for season tickets in the past. 
[continued on page 10] Price as director of student hous­
ing, Mason said, ''He was brought 
in originally as a replacement to fill 
a vacancy in the summer housing 
coordinator's position." From 
there, Mason noted, Price's ap­
pointment to housing director was 
a "natural progression based on 
his past experience in the field and 
his willingness to assume the 
duties of that office." 

"The separation of duties be­tween the Office of Student Affairs and the Office of Business Affairs in regards to housing is clearly defined,'' according to Fr. Gregory Green, assistant vice-president of Student Affairs. "Student affairs will still be involved in choosing the rectors and assistant rectors as well as the staffing of the halls," Green noted. 
Green emphasized that the trans­fer of the housing office to business affairs "concerns only the physical plant of each hall. t is a move to consolidate and streamline the administrative workings of the Housing Office's daily business­related work.'' 
Concerning the Campus Life Council social space proposal that was passed by the University Board of Trustees at their March 17 meeting, Price stated that "insofar as I know at the present time, we are planning to go through with it.'' This proposal will mandate social space improvement in five south quad dorms and construction is to begin this summer. 
Price stated that ''the current
• 
Although Senior Week is more than a week away, parties at their rented A-frames on the ~ke. many seniors have already started their tans and [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
served at the University of Califor­nia at Davis as an administrative services office for the National Center for Primate Biology and as a residence hall administrator. 
O'Meara 

candidate 

for· provost job 
A ninth candidate for the posi­tion of provost at the University of Notre Dame will be interviewed tomorrow by the elected faculty members of the Academic Council, who will then confer with Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University. 
0. Timothy O'Meara, Kenna professor of mathematics, is the new candidate. In correspondence shared with the Academic Coun­cil's elected faculty members, Hesburgh said that he had suc­cessfully persuaded O'Meara to stand for the position. O'Meara had been chairman of the search committee for provost. 
The provost is appointed by the University's Board of Trustees upon the recommendation of the President. The trustees next meet May 12 on campus. Fr. Ferdinand 
L. Brown has been serving as acting provost since the resignation of Fr. James T. Burtchaell last fall. 
dilemma for on-campus housing next year stems from the fact that more people are staying on campus than we anticipated.'' 
Commenting on rumors regarding a possible lottery for seniors-to-be for on-campus housing spots, Price said, "We have no plans for a lottery right now.'' He continued by saying, "People living on cam­pus now shouldn't have any wor­ries in regards to living on-campus next year," he noted. 
In finding a needed 28 additional spots for females who will be living on campus next year, Price com­mented that ''the rectresses were very cooperative and helpful in helping us solve the problem. Things should work out fine.'' 
The possible overcrowding in 
men's dorms is currently under in~estigation. "Holy Cross is t>emg iOOk:eo mto as a possible solution," Price stated. 
''The only problem with this is that is takes a lot of time to make the necessary preparations for 
additional students in Holy Cross,'' Price said. • 'Bath facilities, elec­trical outlets, and several other necessities have to be installed first,'' he said. 
In his role as director of housing, Price will be responsible for the general supervision and mainten­ance of residence haJJs as well as Grace-O'Hara townhouses, Univer­sity Village, Roseland apartments and Village Center. 
The supervision of the work and activities of the Off-Campus Hous­. ing Office and the maintenance of a 

. .. 

the Observer Wednesday, May 3, 1978 
,...News Briefs____......, Car thieves outsmarted 
WASHINGTON-The Transportation Department, leveling its sights primarily on joyriding thieves, announced plans yesterday to require automobile manufacturers to install anti-theft equipment beginning with 1981 models. The devices include protected ignition wires to prevent a car from being started without a key, hood latches that can be released only from inside the car and rounded door-lock mechanisms that prevent a door from being opened by poking a coat hanger through a window crack. Joan Oaybrook, the agenc~'s administrator, said the proposed rule is aimed mostly at thwartmg young thieves who steal vehicles for transportation or to steal parts. 


Lettuce prices to decrease 
Consumers who have watched lettuce prices soar until salad is almost as expensive as steak can expect some relief early next month, a government economist said yesterday. "This thing is temporary," said Charles W. Porter of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, discussing the high prices. "We're just going to have to wait it out.'' Porter said shipments of lettuce from California-the nation's major producer-are running half to less than half of what they were a year ago because rains in the Salinas Valley in February and March prevented farmers from planting, and in some cases, washed seeds already in the ground. 
Today named 'Sun Day' 
From dawn's first light to darkness' fall, the sun will be in the spotlight at home and abroad today for the celebration of ''Sun Day,'' an effort to focus national and international attention on solar energy. The activities are organized by a coalition of groups and aro being coordination by Solar Action, Inc., a non-profit, Washington­based organization thatt has its roots in similar public-interest events as "Earth Day" and "Food Day." The national observance began with a pre-dawn hike to the top of 1,530-foot Cadillac Mountain in Maine, the point where the sun's rays first strike the continental United States each day. 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and a Httle warmer today, highs upper 50s to low 60s. Fair and not so cold tonight, lows in the upper 30s. Partly sunny and mild tomorrow, highs mid to upper 60s. Northeast to east winds around 10 mph today. 

,...On Campus Today_-----.. 
12:15 pm 
1 pm 3:25pm 
3:30pm 
4 pm 
5:15pm 
6:30pm 6:45pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 
8:15pm 
10:30 pm 
seminar, "lymphocyte stimulation by bacterial lipopolysaccharide," dr. diane m. jacobs, st. u. of n.y., buffalo, sponsored by dept. of microbiology, 278 galvin aud. 
baseball, n.d. vs u. of michigan. 
seminar, "modeling aspects of automotive cata­lysis," carmo pereira, n.d., sponsored by chem. engr., 269 chem. engr. bldg. 
survival day, "the problems of nuclear develop­ment," and "whales and dolphins," peter smith, s.m.c., and thomas selsor, s.m.c., all are welcome, dining hall lawn, s.m.c. 
seminar, "the theory of electron transfer processes in glasses & liquids," prof. neil kestner, l.s.u. baton rouge, sponsored by rad. lab., conf. theatre radiation lab. 
mass, fr. jim buckley, c.s.c., the last faster's mass of school year, sponsored by hunger coalition, walsh hall chapel. 
meeting, sailing club, 204 engr. bldg. 
rosary, at the grotto. 

informal lecture, "the legal aspects of abortion in the u.s. today," prof. charles rice, n.d. law school, sponsored by n.d.-s.m.c. right to life, all are urged to attend, Iafortune aud. 
meeting, faculty senate meeting, seminar room, 202 
c.c.e. 

concert, dennis bamber, saxophone, lib. aud. 
concert and dance, "the fabulous mames," spon­sored by morrissey section 1-b, free admission, front 
steps of morrissey. 

The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during eum Md v.utlon periods. T"e Observer Is published by the 
•tudents of Notre Dame Md Selnt Mary's College. Subsa1ptlons INIY be purchased tor $20 per year C$10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlau 46556. Second ct.ss postate paid, Notrw Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer 11 a memtt.r of the Anoc.lated Prell. All rapro. ductlon rltlhh.,.. rastrved. 
SCHEDULECHANGEDATSACRED campus HEART CHURCH 
ministry 

Beginning the first Sunday of the Summer Session, June 25th, the Mass schedule will change in the Main Church. New Sunday Mass times will be: 9:15 am, 10:30 am and 
12:1spm. 


Committee aids Soviet emigres 
JERSEY CITY, N.J. (AP)-Just a ferry ride from Ellis Island where their ancestors landed before them, Soviet dissidents seeking political asylum are finding a haven 
More than 100 Russian families, most of them Jewish, have found homes in this North Jersey com­munity, once infamous for its large number of corrupt politicians. 
Jersey City, across the Hudson River from New York City, was the "ideal regional place" to set up a placement center for Soviet emi­gres, said Arthur Abba Goldberg, founder of the Committee for the Absorption of Soviet Emigres (CASE). 
"Most of the immigrants coming in from the Soviet Union want to live in New York City or its environs,'' Goldberg said. ''New York City is still the culture center of the world...There are more 
cultural things to which they  can  
relate from  an  international  and  
Jewish point of view."  

The United States has provided a haven for Soviet literary personal­ities, scientists and other political dissidents. About 4,000 Soviet Jews were given special refugee status last year to allow them to emigrate to the United. States. 
Goldberg, a 37-year-old invest­ment banker in New York, said he founded CASE in 1974 because of his Lithuanian heritage and his desire to do a "mitzvah," a Yiddish term for a good deed. 
Goldberg said the CASE-assisted 
Poet Michelson to appear 
Under the auspices of the Com­'mittee on Academic Progress, poet and critic Peter Michelson will appear as part of an evening's poetry reading to be held tonight in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery, beginning at 7:30 p.m. 
A reading by five student poets, all Notre Dame Poetry Contest winners, will follow Michelson's presentation. The student poets are John Santos, Greg Marshall, Melita Schaum, Susan Johnson, and Billy Hassell. 
Michelson will read from his recently published collection of poems, Pacific Plalnsong. His reviews, articles and analyses of subjects ranging from the arts to politics have appeared in journals and periodicals as diverse as The New RepubUc, The Nation, Tri-Quarterly, of which he is a contributing editor, and the Chicago Review, of which he is former editor. 
Formerly a member of Notre Dame's department of English, Michelson is currently on the faculty of the University of Color­ado. 
*The Observer 

Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editor: Tom Behney layout Staff: Lenore Koczon, John Dondanville Editorial layout: Maureen Flynn Features layout: Reed King Sports layout: Mark Perry Typists: Mark Rust, Beth Rizzo, Mary McCauley 
Early Morning Typist: me Day Editor: John McDermott Copy Reader: Mark Rust Ad layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Bill Reifsteck Soviet emigres "integrate pretty well into the community but they're never going to become American Americans. You can't divorce 20 to 25 years of your life.'' 

He said the immigrants range "from the highly educated to blue collar workers. It cuts right across the board." Most are in their 20s or early 30s and typically have one child whom they send to private or religious schools in Jersey City. 
CASE sponsors refugees so they can obtain entry visas and serves as a housing and employment place­ment service once they arrive. 
"The immigrants have a marvel­ous information network,'' Gold­berg said. "Our name is passed around the immigrant grapevine to friends and relatives and friends of friends.'' 
CASE, which receivt~s funds from the city and through charitable contributions, is renovating six row houses and has "completed, under construction or under contract' work 
on  150 to  200 units,"  Goldberg  
said.  
The  organization,  he  added  is  

completing a deal on a five-story building in downtown Jersey City to turn into a community center for the Soviet population here. 
Jersey City, the state's second­largest city with a population of 257,000, is the home of the Hudson County Democratic political ma­chine, once headed by Frank "I am the law" Hague. 

M.D./D.V.M. Dearee-Europe/U.S.A.
IT IS NOT TOO LA"lE for you to enroll in the programs of the INSTITUTE OF INTERNA­TIONAL MEDICAL EDUCATION which offer: 
1. 
Enrollment for Fall 1978 in medical schools in Europe. 

2. 
M.S. in cooperation with recognized colleges and unt­versities in the United States. leading to advanced place· ment in medical schools in Spain, Italy. and other European countries. . 

3. 
While you are in attendance at the med1ca.1 school, the 1nstitvte provides a supplemental Basic Med1cal Sc1ences Curr:culum which prepares students for transfer mto an American medical school. (COTRANS) 

4. 
For those students who do not transfer, the Institute provides accredited, supervised clinical clerkships at cooperating United States teachmg hosp1t~;~ls. . 

5. 
During the final year of foreign medical schoo~. the .Insti­tute provides a supplemental and comprehensive clm1cal medical curriculum which prepares you to take the ECFMG examination. 


The Institute has been responsible lor processing more American students Into foreign medical schools than any other organization. 
For rurther Information and application, contact 
INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL EDUCATION Chartered by the Regents of the Un1versity of theState of New York 3 East 54th Street, New York. NY 10022. (212) 832·2089 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
alumni IHlior picnic 78 
(Rrst Annual) 
Stepan 

Center saJurday may (1h 11 am-1:30pm come early , stay lale! btifore blue (ween) gold game 
, Meet the NO alumni Club Reps from your post-graduation city. , Maps, housing advice and business sense for each Club City will be available , Bring ideas of what you want your Alumni Association to be and do. , The Alumni came from all over the cnuntry to meet you --be there! 
free beer and bmutuurst prorided . by the alumni US9l. 
Volleyball games, more beer and more talk at the Senior Bar after the Game. Start Senior Week early. 
''''''''''''''~'''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 

OF McKINLEY 
SPECIAL RATES FOR 
ND STUDENTS: 
Storage for 
MOTORCYCLES AUTOS, FURNITURE, BOOKS, Etc. 
Share a space with a roommate or friend! 
YOUR OWN STORAGE SPACE -YOU KEEP THE KEY 
C/\LL OR VISIT TODAY AT: 
816 E. McKINLEY, MISHAWAKA 

259-0335 
ALSO AN AAA OUAUTY CLEANERS Sl ATION 






--•a-­
• 

• 
.Bo8rd discusses rertoV&-tiOn-s;· 
by Laura Larimore . . 
The' new Student Government (SG) Board. of Commissioners met 
. last night. in LaFortune for their second meeting of the year. AJ!long· the topics discussed was the renovation of the LaFortune Student Center. The Board was in ·agreement that plans for the reno­vation were not. progressing as fast as they might and made a decision 
. to draft a letter to Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for Student Affairs, expressing this concern and requesting possible action. 
In reference to the upcoming Provost and-vice president for· Student Affairs appointments, a motion to draft letters. to the new appointees containing the position of Student Governemtn relevant to those jobs was discussed· and agreed upon. 
Projected expenditures for the time period between the end of the fiscal year, June 30, and the reallocation ·of funds next fall were discussed. Money was appropri­ated to the Student Unioq for use during Welcome Week and other immediate fall functions. 
Also discussed were plans for the 
. . 

S.tud~nt' Gpvernmen·i Pla~iling .Committee, which would serve' to examine w.here SG w.as·heading i.n long range .term& and to help ·set ·tong range goals. Furthe( discus­sion · about -the committee · and possible "members was tabled until 
the next meeting,  ·  
In  oth"er  business,  cabinet  
appointments  ·made  by·  Student.  

·Bo.dy President Andy McKenna were· approved, i"n accordance with the constitution. A meeting date was set for May 11 with the Board of Trustees and Student" Affairs to discuss housing and the judicial process 
Proposed sale of war planes lnay be rejected by _Congress 
WASHINGTON [AP] -There may be enough votes in a House committee to reject President Jim­my Carter's proposed sales of war planes to three Mideast countries despite predictions to the contrary by the panel's chairman, a survey of lawmakers showed yesterday. 
Nineteen House members-a bare majority of the 37-rriember House International Relations Committee­said "they will approve, or are leaning in favor of, a resolution against" the sale of jet fighters to Saudi Arabia unless Carter makes concessions for Israel. 
The·Carter administration wants to sell sophisticated, U.S.-made · F-15 war planes to Saudi Arabia, 75 F-15s and 15 F-16s to Israel and SO F-Ss to Egypt -a $4.8 billion deal. 
. A House or Senate vote against 
any ope of the three sales -the 
Saudi Araoian transaction, for 
Dunne receives. :Sheedy Aw.ard 
. . 

l 


I· 
Fr~·John s.' Dunne, C.S.C., pro~ fessor of theology, has been chosen the recipient of the Sheedy Award for ·outstanding teaching in the College of Arts and Letters. · . 
A leading figure in wtiat is known as the."narrative school" of theo­logy. Dunne has been a popular techer in the 21 years he has been on the Notre Dame faculty. In 1969 he received a Danforth Foundation Harbison Award, a distinction be­stowed upon the nation's outstan­ding teachers. 
Dunne has written five books, earning for himself such accolades as "the most original religious thinker of our time." His . first book entitled The City of the Gods appeared in 1965. His last com­pleted work, Reasons of the Heart, will soon appear in print. 
A 1951 Notre Dame graduate, Dunne did his postbac~alaureate w_or~ at the Gregorian University in Rome. He held the Riggs Chair in Yale University's Department of Religious Studies in 1972-73 and game the Sarum lectures at Oxford University in 1976. 
Established · by an anonymous 
. donor to honor Fr. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C, former dean of the College, the award includes s a $1,000 gift. Recipients are chosen by a student-faculty committee, and the award will be presented next fall during the Arts and Letters Advisory Council meeting on campus.. 
. -..-."" ._-·-· .. ..
-

instance -would jeopardize the deal because Carter has suggested he'II drop the sales if Congress takes such action. 
Under congressionai procedures a proposed arms sale by the executive branch must be disap-· proved by both houses within 30 calendar days of the time the president sends it to Capitol Hill. However, no specific congressional approval is needed. 

Under. parliamentary procedure, a sale will go through unless Congress rejects it within 30 days. The House and Senate can halt such transactions only ~y · passing resolutions of disapproval. 
The Associated Press questioned each member of the House commit­tee, whiCh began considering the war planes deal on Monday. 
~ . 
19 disapprove 
Nineteen said they either will vote for a resolution disapproving the sales, or are inclined to do so,­especially where the administra­tion's sale of 60 ·sophisticated F-15 

Israel and Egypt. The remaining 13 said they're 
· either undecided at this time or are unwilling to speculate on how they'll vote on resolutions of disap­proval that have been ·introduced. 
However, at least half a dozen, including some who listed themselves as being · tentatively opposed to the Saudi sale, said they would vote for it if Carter ma:kes concessions for Israel. 
Other jets okay 

There seemed ·to be little Con­gressional resistance to the proposed sale of less sophisticated jet fighters to Egypt. · · Rep. Clement J. Zablocki, D­Wis., ·chairman of the committee; 
·. had said Friday he would get the 19 votes needed to kill any resolutions aimed at vetoing the silles. 
Zablocki said he already has 15 votes, with the other. four· sure to come. But the Congressman said he's disappointed that "more members don't have the courage to say-publicly they support the sale." 
Carter'-s aides have said private 

!& 

Weanesday, May 3, 1978 
the observer 


This student is not a senior! [Photo by Bill Reifsteck) · 
National Championship Caps 
now available at 
Ice Rink Pro Shop many o'ther souveniers also available 
5% DISCOUNT to graduating Seniors-Present your ID Enter gate 3 10am-5pm Mon-Fri 

SUMMER STORAGE
·special rates Master Mini-Warehouses 
close to campus on U.S. 31 north 1 block north of Shula's 
Located at 2034 U.S. 31 north stateline 
683-1959 Open 7 Days 684-6431 




the observer Wednesday, May 3, 1978 
World wide support given · . 



'Sun Day' celebrates use of solar energy 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Solar energy­everybody's for it; nobody's a­gainst it. 
It isn't really free and easy, and adopting it in place of oil, gas, coal and uranium will be at best a long, costly and uncertain process. 
But solar energy has so much going for it that optimists want an all-out drive, on the scale of wartime mobilization, to base the nation's economy on energy drawn directly or indirectly from the light and heat of the sun. 
And the worst thing pessimists . can say about it is that we can't . switch to solar energy fast enough. 1 
Denis Hayes, who organized 1 "Earth Day" in 1970 to publicize the environmental movement and originated the idea of today's "Sun Day" demonstrations, is one of the optimists. 
"Federal policy has, in the past, consistently discriminated ag~inst 1 those forms of energy that repre­sent our brightest hopes," he said. ''The real leadership is not to be found in Washington," he said, but, 

a student 
Tonight -9pm : 
I 
(Jazz in the Nazz) with the tuesday nite
! ND Jazz 
Band 
(directed by Mark Stoneburner)
I 
f 
Coming Thurs. ­

Jake Schneider and Bill Carey. 
all over the country, where 1 com­panies, local governments and private citizens are· building, en­couraging and inventing new solar projects. 
First lady Rosalynn Carter, En­ergy Secret~ry James R. Schlesin­ger, the president's consumer af­fairs assistant Esther Peterson, and officials of 14 agencies proclaimed the government's support of solar energy development yesterday and outlines scores of federal projects. 
But Hayes told them that all this effort still is not enough. "Solar supporters hoped to see 
I the direct solar energy budget doubled," said Hayes, referring to the Carter administration's budget proposals for fiscal 1979. ''Instead, it was cut 10 percent .... A far more ambitious solar energy program 
,.----------------~~~~~~~~~----.-----, energy source, absorbed and con­
lrt verted by plants into man's food IAnyone interested in being a contact/buddyl and his fuels: wood and theI I fossilized plant remains we know as I ' I coal, oil and natural gas. · I to an incoming transfer student I Energy technicians now proposeI 1 to return to that ancient basis by
:1 next semester, 1systematically growing crops·. for .1 1conversion into liquid or gaseous fuels. II please call Chris (1 052), Carey (6877), II These forms of solar energy are expected to produce far less pollu­1 M d (7815) b F "d M 5 I tion than existing energy sources.
I or an y y . n ay ay I Sunlight is available everywhere in .J the world, and it is "free" in the
L 

------------------------­
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__,sensethatthesunneverpresentsa
bill.  
But  collecting  and  using  solar  
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN© 1978  energy, is  not free.  Solar equip­ 



ment tends to be expensive-too expensive, in most cases, to com­pete economically with · conven­tional fuels today. 
However, that picture is rapidly changing as those fuel prices rise and solar equipment costs come down as a result of technical advances and the beginnings of mass production. 
And the initial high investment in solar equipment looks less daun­ting when you realize there are no fuel costs once it is installed. 
Still, solar energy is not quite ready to take over. The sun shines only during the day. Sunshine is reduced by cloudy weather and short days of winter. Wind, rainfall and crop growth are irregular. 
The technicians are still searching for adequate, inexpensive ways of storing energy to use when solar energy is not directly available. · Where continuous energy is .re­quired, solar energy now must be backed up by conventional. fuel­burning or electrical sources, greatly increasing the costs: . 
"It has taken .industry less than six years to reduce· the . price .Of· solar electric panels from $100 per watt to $10 per watt," one veteran of solar development. reported _last· month at a conference in Califor-· nia. 
"A similar reduction will occur during the next six years, from $10 to under $1 per watt,'! he pre­,dicted. That ·is the installation price that ·most experts consider nearly competitive with conven­tional power plants. . 
Swimming rules announced 
Outdoor swimming on campus is restricted to St. Joseph's' Late, according to a recent directive from the office of James Roemer, Dean of Students. 
The directive .says that lifeguards will be on duty to oversee the cordoned area, the only area· where swimming is allowed, starting each day at 10 a.m., conditions permit­ting. 
Roemer also listed several ·rules for use of the beach. No food, fires, alcoholic beverages, vehicles·, pets, or floatation devices are allowed. Those students wishing to use the beach must register with the security office. 
University faculty, staff, spquses and children will be allowed to use the beach for a one-time $1 fee, payable· upon registration with 

"Do you /eel a cold draft?" 
must be designed." 
In fact, administration officials say a new emphasis on solar energy Will emerge in "Phase Two,'' the next round of national energy policies to be tentatively outlined this autumn and proposed to Congress early next year. 
At first glance, everything seems to favor· solar energy sweeping the world-which, in fact, it does every 24 hours as the world turns. 
The sun's heat can be captured, directly by warm air, water or solid materials to provide both space heating and hot water for buil­dings; using ingenious heat­exchange devices it can even be turned against itself to provide air conditioning. 
· Direct solar heat can be used for some industri_al and agricultural processes, such as drying crops. 
Sunlight can be converted heat­lessly, in a millionth of a second, into electricity by plates of silicon crystal that loot like paper-thin frosted glass laced with ribbons ·of silver, 
Or, it can be focused by a giant mirror system to create steam, which is used to spin a conventional electrical turbine. · 
It is the sun's energy that drives the earth's winds and evaporates· the water that later falls as rain or snow, flowing downhill and back to the sea through rivers and stream's. This energy, too, can be converted into mechanical work or eletricity by efficient modern windmills and hydroelectric darns. 
Solar energy actually ·is the earth's oldest and most basic 
'-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~security. 


An overflow crowd gathered last night in the which were collected by Herb Graff. [Photo by Library Auditorium to listen to bloopers and goofs Bill Reifsteck) 

ND student government survey 
.........................s.......................2...., 
asks students about environment;~~:f:;o~~~J:;~;e~~~;~~c?:.~~w~~ 
Aileen Lavin 

Recently Notre Dame Student Government surveyed a cross section of students in a question­naire to gather information concer­ning their views on their environment. 
The questionnaire was designed by Student Bodv Vice President Mike Roohan, A~sociate Professor of Psychology, Sheridan P. McCabe, and students Andy Herring and Jim· Seifert. 
The results of the survey will be tabulated by a committee of four students on the Council of Com­munications and will be published in the fall. The students on the committee are Carolyn Best. Bill Koval, Mary Ellen Pearce, and Bob Fontana. 
According to Roohan, "The pur­pose of the poll is for Student Government to k(._·p in touch with the students' nec:ds. · 
"As Student GovPrnmcnt prog­resses through the year it is necessary to stay in touch with students' needs and desires to better serve them,'' Roohan explained. 
Participants for the survey were chosen randomly from the Student Directory. 
The questionnaire was designed to allow the participants to explain their feelings rather than have them choose an answer from a given list, Roohan said. 
"In the average survey you gain more hard-core statistical data. I wanted more student input about problems on campus and what students want to change," Roohan emphasized. 
The survey covers a variety of statements about campus environ­ment. Following the statements the students were asked to describe their feelings ahout the subject ranging from "strongly agree" to "strongly disagree." 
PartiCipants were then given the 
chance to elaborate on these evalu­
ations by answering three 
questions: what things exist or 
have happened to make you feel 
this way, how have you responded 
to this situation, and what could be 
done to change or improve the 
situation. 
The first statement dealt with the 
quality of Student Government itself in representing the views of the students. Other general questions touched on security • the social value of class activities, and the drinking habits of Notre Dame students. 
Participants were also asked to express their opinions on the awareness of students about third John Simari is head of a committee that has written a proposal which will be brought before the Campus Life Council tomorrow. 
In general, the proposal suggests that lofts be permitted as long as they strictly adhere to certain standards that would prevent them from being fire hazards. 
Student Body President Andy 
McKenna said he is planning to continue the surveys on a monthly basis. 
"We found it really helpful in getting the students' sentiments about life at Notre Dame,'' McKenna said. "There are a lot of things students feel strongly about that are not heard. We will use the poll to tap their feelings so that we can be more productive." 
tudes on campus. and the oppor­tunity for spiritual growth at Notre Dame. 
Participants in the survey were 
asked to express their feelings on 
the adequacy of LaFortune as a 
social center as well as the ade­
quacy of career guidance for upper­
classmen. 
The subject of co-residential living as a step in the normalization of male-female relationships was also presented in the survey for students' opinions. Co-Ed Com­missioner Helen Marks is presently researching the subject; therefore, Student Government is interested in finding students' true feelings about it. 
Basically, she is just examining the proposals brought before other universities and this university, and introducing herself to what this would entail,'' Roohan explained. The last statement of the survey considers the possibility of permit­ting lofts t.o be built as a way of dealing with residence hall over­crowding. Housing Commissioner 
Egan speaks at meeting lof local Alumni Club 
by Michael Lewis News .t:dltor 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of the St. Joseph Valley met in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center last night as a part of Uniw·rsal Notre Dame Night. 
Msgr. John Egan, special assis­tant to Universi!~ President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, was the prin­cipal speaker. 
·Egan spoke on the theme of the night,· "Notre Dame facing its chatlenges." He said that he was "deeply honored" to work with Hesburgh. "To be able to work with Fr. Hesburgh for Notre Dame is a dream come true," he stated. 
He noted that his duty is to ''try to relate Notre Dame more effec­tively with the Church throughout the United State~." Egan also 
stressed the non-academic pro­
grams, such as the Center for 
Human Development and the Cen­
ter for Pastorial Liturgy, that deal 
with this problem. 
"Notre Dam~ is, and must be, a 
place-maybe the primary place­
where the Church does it's think­
ing," he said. 
Egan also mentioned the impor­tance of the Campaign for Notre Dame, stating that the campaign' was almost two-thirds of the way: towards its. goal of $130 million. l The campatgn has raised approxi­mately $86 million in its first year. 
Later in the meeting, Brian Regan, ND alumnus and assistant to Saint Mary's President John Duggan, was presented with the Club's University of Notre Dame Award of the Year for his contribu­tions to ND\ Saint Marv's and the 
club. ­
~I 

Wednesday, May 3, 1978 the ObS8rY8r 
5 


Graff amuses large crowd with bloopers, outtakes 
by Sue Wuetcber 
An enthusiastic overflow audience listened to Herb Graff discuss "Outtakes and Bloopers" last night in the Library Auditorium. Graff, curator of films at Brooklyn Museum and a teacher at New York 
University,  noted  that  the  talk  
enabled him "to leave  academia  
and  enter  the  world  of  show  
business."  

Graff said that in putting to­gether outtakes one doesn't show just two hours of mistakes. ''One or two times is' cute. After two hours you die," he remarked. He showed clips from the full spectrum -goofs from motion pictures and television and examples of censor­ship from early movies, commen­ting on each one. 
Graff presented several exam­ples of commercials that were made, but pulled off the air for one reason or another. A Volkswagen 
~.~~::~::.:.~:~~;,gb!:Ogse~~~~ 
The crowd's favorite commercial was one sponsored by Dole. The company hired Miss Dominican Republic to advertise Dole bananas, with Nelson Riddle wri­ting the music. The total cost of the commercial was $40,000. Accor­ding to Graff, the film was "one of the dirtiest pieces of footage I've ever seen." Consequently, it never made it on the air. 
Observing the audience's reac­tion, Graff noted that everyone asks him how he got that film. He said that fifteen to twenty sequences of the film were shot. ''The lab that develops the film started selling prints to collectors,'' he commented. 
Graff also showed ''a good healthy chunk of Star Trek." "I'm sure in South Bend Star Trek fans are all intelligent people," he said. "In New York Trekkie people are 
all retards."  He added  that he  
though  the "conventions  were  a  
rip-off.''  

Graff's presentation included two examples of propaganda. In the first piece he juxtaposed two pieces of footage. One was a Nazi film "Triumph of Will," which showed soldiers marching. The British took the same footage, set it to music, and used certain trick photography techniques. 
The second example was a film done by Warner Brothers to hype the NRA. Fraff noted that if vou closed your eves vou would thin-k it 
· [continued on page 81 

-----------------------. 

campus ASCENSION THURSDAY 
miniStry 
(A holy day of obligation) Mass for the Univeristy Community will be celebrated by Rev. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. at 5 p.m. in the Sacred Heart Church. 
world concerns, the interacial atti-F!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 

Somewhere in the Third World. your family is waiting. Your brothers. your ne1ghbors, men. women and children very much in need of your love. , 
Imagine how much you can do tor them. You can share God with them. give them hope and peace and dignity. You can counsel and educate them, give them food, clothing and medicine. Even in their world of grinding oppress1on. you can help set them free. 
It will take a lifetime. but after all, they are your family. In God's eyes, every­one is your family. Let us tell you more about life as a Maryknoll M1ssioner. Send us the coupon or call toll free (800) 431·2008. it could be your ticket home. 
Maryknoll Missioners ND31 I 
people who give their lives ro..  people  I  
DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS • Maryknoll Missioners • Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545  1  
Dear Father  1  
Please send me mformation about becoming a Maryknoll Pr1est Brother Sister  I  
Name  I  
Address  I I  
C1ty  .  "'______,_,_ ________ , _··----­ State  Zip Code  I.  
Age _______  Phone  Class  I  
College  ~-­ -~---­ -­ _,  Year of GraduatiOn  I  

I 
I 
i 



Bookstore Basketball: Not Again 
We have just finished another season of Bookstore Basketball. 
Every year teams of students play to win and crowds of friends come to cheer. The competition is tough and the wills are strong. But over the years, this time has become more than a battle between teams, it has become a battle between races, whites against blacks. It is no longer a basketball game among friends but a racial argument. 
Anywhere, but especially at Notre Dame, this seems unbelievable and unmistakably hypocritical. When any minority student is representing ND, they are a part of Notre Dame, and someone that we can all be proud of -they are accepted, and most of all, supported. But when they get together with their friends to play a game, the crowds become hostile. The shouting and verbal abuse are incredible. Anyone who has attended Bookstore Basketball knows this is true. 
We have just completed a project on Racial Discrimination at Notre Dame. There are two kinds of racism at ND -structural and personal. Notre Dame recognizes the need and value, at least in theory, of diversity of cultures and socioeconomic backgrounds in order to provide a richer environment and experience for everyone. Yet, most of us come from very similar backgrounds. When we 
'' 
li
,, 
come to Notre Dame each of us usually befriends those who live
l 
near us and those who are most like us. 
Popular criticism is that the minorities hang together and do not want to associate with non-minorities. This is a false and unfair generalization. Anyone who has spent any time, anywhere, as a minority, whether it be as a female in the midst of one hundred males or as a sole English-speaker amongst all native Mexicans, can verify that any common bond in a foreign atmosphere is very important. Each of us needs strength, encouragement, support and acceptance. It ony makes sense, then, to seek that out where it is to be found. As the majority, white students are secure and supported in most everything we do, and we have not been, as a group, supportive or accepting ofthe minority students. It seems pertinent that we take a stand and make some overt efforts at changing the current situation at ND. 
The Admissions Office is making a serious attempt to recruit greater numbers of minority students. We recognize and 

Guardhouse best solution for security 
Deu Editor: 
It is indeed commendable that Dean Roemer and Andy McKenna (among others) are searching for a solution to the problem of security on the back road to Saint Mary's. But good intentions are never enough. Good actions must also be implemented, or the intentions are worthless. In my opinion, the proposed actions (student honor guard, better lighting, and beefing 
up  Security),  while  needed  and  
given  with  good  intentions,  are  
simply  an  evasion  of  the  real  

problem and will be, as have been past proposals, ridiculously ineffec­tive. 
The real solution· was touched upon by Security Audit Inc. (SAl), and will be voiced by any student who travels the road often:· establish a permanent guardhouse at the west gate. If no other proposal is implemented, this one logically must be. There are many advantages to this proposal. First of all, bo ing located halfway between Holy Cross (ND) and Holy Cross (SMC), the guardhouse would command a good view in either direction and would repre­sent a much needed haven and symbol of authority and protection. It would, in effect, make it much, 




P.O.Box Q 
much safer to walk the road at night. Secondly, it would make ND campus security in general much better. Thirdly, it would make easier the passage of the shuttle, as well as all traffic (faculty, alumni, parents, etc.) between the two campuses. Fourthly, it is ulti­mately the cheapest, most effective and most valuable solution. In­stead of wasting time and money on less effective, temporary pro­grams, the guardhouse is a lasting, effective and extremely valuable proposal. It is also so painfully obvious a solution, that I wonder that I am forced to write this letter. 
In my three years at Notre Dame, I have heard much about ..brother­hood", ''moral responsibility", and ..protection for our own good" (in loco parentis!). In my view, these abstract beliefs can either be very valuable or just garbage. Here the University has a golden opportunity to put up or shut up--either bact these ideals or reduce them to just a load of rhetoric. 
That a solution is needed is obvious. That the ideal solution is a west gate guardhouse, is not only my opinion and that of other students, but also of Security Audit 
. Inc. (although the Administration seems to have perfunctorily dis­missed it). The big question is, will anyone really -consider or act on this proposal. I hope Dean Roemer and Andy McKenna will 
. seriously consider it and act upon it. It is the student body's 

The Observer 1s published by students of the University of 
f<o'>emary Mdls Ed1tonal Editor
Notre Dame and Samt Mary's College lt. does not necessarily 
Phd Cackley Copy Ed1tor
retlect the policies of the administration of either instttution 
jean Powley St Mary's Ed1tor
The news is reported as accurately and as objective!\' as 
Ann Gales News Editor
poss1ble Editorials represent the opinton of a ma1ority of the 
Mtke Lew•s News Editor
Editortal Board. Commentarres, op•nions and letters are the 
Diane Wilson News Edttor
vtews of their authors Column space is available to all 
Ray O'Rnen Sports Editor
members of the community, and the fr~e expression of varyrng 
Brvan Gruley Features Editor
opmtons on campus, through letters, i-; encouraged 
*The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Noire Dame community Ind. 46556 
kathy gorman &~~fi' nanette b~falino 
appreciate their efforts. We also ask that they broaden their 
admissions criteria to include values which may not necessarily be 
those which have traditionally been seen as relevant for admissions. 
It is known that there is no one magic formula which guarantees an applicant admission to the University. We recognize that the admission process is a somewhat subjective procedure. Certain things are seen as positive status for various individuals in the absence of other credentials. We do not suggest that Notre Dame admit non-qualified students -those people who could not handle the environment and achieve at least minimal success here. However, there is an absolute minimum standard which all must meet to be eligible for admission and we know that many extremely capable and qualified applicants are annually turned away. We ask that admissions policies and procedures. as well as their verbal commitment reflect an understanding that minority students come to Notre Dame with a different but valuable set of criterion. 
We also hope that the Office of Financial Aid recognize its role in minority enrollment and become sensitive to particular conditions of minority students. We ask all student and university organizations to acknowledge and become sensitive to the needs of 
.the minorities on campus. And finally, we call upon the University to comply with its universal commitment to human rights and equality by responding to the needs of Notre Dame students. We see these changes as being vey important bu1 they involve structural revision which we often feel is beyond our reach. Each student, regardless of race, must take a stand and speak up for what is right. We must stop and question each other and not let the situation go any further. 
Bookstore Basketball might be a good place to start. The racism voiced on this campus is not an element inborn in any of us-nor is it so ingrained that it cannot be overcome. Each of us has a choice, we are free and we must choose. To choose not to act is to accept racism. We must challenge those who contradict what we know ito be right. There is power in numbers and the numbers who are against racism must assert their power. 
problem. There have been many attacks and rapes (despite the belief that unreported rapes do not exist) on that back road, yet all there has been is talk and no action. Will it take a severe beating or I! murder to ever get any real steps taken? 
James W. Jorgensen 
New .frosh stuck with crarruned rooms 
Dear Editor. 
We are very disappointed to learn that, for the third year in a row, students on campus will be forced to live in uncomfortable and even unbearable living conditions. It seems that once again the students will suffer from mis­calculations on the part of the Housing and Admissions offices. 
For example, this year in Lyons a small, three-room quad was con­verted into three one-room doubles, in which it is difficult to avoid bumping into one's desk or roommate. Next year, two of the 
reasonably-sized  R.A.  rooms  in  
Lyons  will  be  designated  as  
doubles,  forcing  these  R.A.'s  to  

occupy singles which have pre­viously been available to upper­classmen. In Walsh, some quads will be converted to quints. Since none of these rooms, as converted, 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor 
John Calcutt fxecutive Editor Barb Ltnghenry Execut1ve Editor will appeal to upperclassmen, freshmen will have to tolerate overcrowded living conditions, along with their other adjustment problems. 
We realize that fewer upper­classmen now are moving off campus than in the past and that more freshmen are confirming acceptances; however, these are not valid excuses for continued overcrowding. Obviously the sys­tem for projecting these numbers needs to be updated. Each year brings promises that this won't happen again, while students have yet to see such promises fulfilled. 
We hope that this problem will soon be solved; students deserve more respect. We would hate for 
the University's future alumni to become so disappointed with the 
University's policies  and  actions  
that  they  would  be  reluctant  to  
contribute.  

Season's heros reviled at bookstore 
Dear Editor, 
My letter is written in response to actions I have seen during this week's Bookstore Basketball games. As a concerned student I felt it my duty to write and express what is sure to be a widespread feeling. I have observed during the tournament a strange prejudice in action against certain teams. 
The first report I would like to make is that of the actions of the crowd. Whenever a predominantly black team is on the court, the crowd continually boos and taunts the players and rans who are supporting the Tru('blood Express I-IV, the Ofay Killers, or whomever the team may be. To me and other observant spectators. this seems an extremely fickle point of view. For, the same people who comprise these black teams are "friends and comrades" -off .:ourt, that is. The same players who helped carry our tea1J1 to the NCAA quarterfinals are the same people who were· (are) hoocd so viciously on the Bookstore Basketball court. The same foot ball players who comprised the 
DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 
I CAN'T et:iJEVE  THAr5 RIGHT,  
n; Of.II<E. 'fY)(J1REALLY SI6NW  Ba313Y! THE POLYNE51AN  
~  "LAVA-LAVA"  PIWZ£R IS  
:  lENNY!  (){)RS! I  




National Championship Team just happen to play on predominantly black bookstore teams. The same 
ears which hear ''Go Gr-een Mach­ine" and "Way to go" are subjec­ted to "Get them niggers," cries during the off-season. The same Notre Dame Scholar whose Chemis­try or Econ test you sneaked a look from turns "dumb nigger" when he makes a perfect 30-foot jump shot. 
Secondly, these players are also forced to play five against seven on the basketball court. Recall how disconcerted we were when our football team played Clemson and 
their referees. The Clemson game was an injustice which was out of our hands, but the injustices which occur on Notre Dame soil are very much under our (your and my) control. 
To those precious few of you who are innocent of any bigotry, I apologize; I am Lruly sorry if I have offended you, but you too need to be made aware of the transgress­ions of your peers. To those of you who are in error. I suggest you fake a look inside your::.clves and at the religious principles. on which Notre Dame is tounded. And, to those of you who will say that the discontent arises hecause the blacks lost the Tournev. I have written this letter before -the final" :n hopes to emphasizcc :he fa,·t that it is not who wins. but how the game is 
played~ 
Sincerely, >fl}rtle Perkins 


Wednesday, May 3, 1978 the observer 
My Section and Welcome to It 
(Editor's Note: The following article is entirely fictitious. Any resemblances to persons living or dead is purely coinciden­tal.) . 
Watch out for the suitcases on your way in. The fern? Oh, that's Fred--he belongs to Madeliene. She's watered him --I wonder what the occasion is. You've never been up here before? 1'11 have to show you around then. 5-East is kind of an unusual section, I guess. I've gotten used to it. That's my room, 571. 'Scuse me a second while I see if my roommate's in. Yeah -­she hasn't moved. I'd introduce you, but I think she might be asleep. It's kind of hard to tell sometimes. Her name is Maybelle Furdge ··maybe you've heard of her. She came in first in the National Sloth-Offs last year. She's real easy to get along with; needs to be dusted once or twice a week, but that's about it --the graffiti on the ceiling? Yeah, we think it lends character to the place. I can't take credit for it though. If I remember right, Screeks McCabe did it during our last happy hour; 
•*•*** 



was going to take Father Hesburgh to the Shmoowis Hall formal, but it didn't work out. I think he might have been busy that weekend. Screeks has the only single in the hall; her roommate found out about her shrunken head collection and moved to the 
*•*•*** 

rec room. Well yes, it is a little noisy down 
there, but then she get to food sales before 
anyone else. 
Oh, my God --Rana Turnhed's got 

* 

another guy. Rana's sort of the section ~ Casanova. How many? I don't know; we 
~ 


* ~ 
*
~~ 
* 
*** ~ 
* 
* 

that's her signature there, right under the Mona Lisa done in purple crayon. Screeks is something of a legend around here -I mean. DiHon is a monastery by compari­son. She carried on a one-woman jock raid last semester. No, I don't think the Observer covered it. That's her room across the hall; the one done in late Fruit-of-the-Loom. Well, I'm not sure if she washed them first: It think she was afraid of blurring the phone numbers. She 
' 
\ .
•••••., 
lost count after the first week. I can tell you this much, though; that girl's had more dates than Zahm has cockroaches. She's got what is probably the most comprehensive little black books on campus; when they were making up the phone directories for the Towers, they made her chief consul­
tant. That's her roommate, Nell Andrews; I think she's on her way to the library again. Nell has to spend a lot of time at the library these days. She's president of an organization known as R.O.S.S. --stands for Roommates of Studs and Studettes. If you're known solely as your roommate's roommate, then you're eligible to join. There are lots of advantages to belonging to R.O.S.S.; you getyourowncot at Stepan Center, in case your room's being -urn­used; and once a week, everybody get together at Lafortune for a hot game of gin rummy. R.O.S.S. has some wild times; they had a chugging contest last weekend. It didn't last too long; they were all on the 
.. . 
.( '•' 
\ ~I 
-...., i 
.-, 
.•. •:JJ·
:: .. \• 
" ....
,.. 
•i. ' 
\ " I ' 
• 
' • i>~

'.v,
\' ~ ,
I 

!IL-~.'-l~;;::-W"'>-IJN::-o_.
1 

floor after about two hours. It guess they just can't hold their Dr. Pepper. 
Don't look now--but you see that backpack on two legs shuffling down the hall? She lives in room 575, when she lives here at all; that's Mortalia Snerd, our cutthroat~in-residence. Like I said, we don't see much of Mortalia around here, except on weekends, when she comes home from the library to do her laundry. She likes to measure dipole moments in her spare time. Guys? --well, no, but I understand that she did have an unre­quited passion for an I.B.M. machine once. That's her roommate boogying in from dinner now; Jess Richards, better known as the "Disco Kid". Jess is the only person I know who can Pretzel with herself. We had a little accident at our last section party; she "got down" just a little too far and dislocated some guy's shoulder. The room next door belongs to Blown-Awy Koswicki, affectionately referred to as B.A. If B.A.'s room ever burned down, the whole campus would be high for three days. Buy it? -· heck, she grows it. She's got a couple of specimens the size of palm trees in there. B.A. is capable ofjust about anything--under the right conditions. As I understand it, she and Screeks are planning to abduct this year's Mr. Campus and barricade themselves in the infirmary until their demands are met--three years' tuition is all they're going for. That's B.A.'s roommate, Lavinia Earswingle. Lavinia's feet haven't been 'On speaking terms with the ground for a month now; she's got a monstrous crush on some guy in Fisher. We first got the idea that she might be in love when she started spending half her waking hours sitting in front of the Rock with a pair of binoculars. She sent him Valentine's Day carnations, Gentle Thursday daisies, Groundhog's Day Cards; had him pied, serenaded and tucked in, but she has yet to talk to him. She's written him some three hundred and seventy-eight love letters, none of which will ever be mailed. I bf!lieve B.A. is using them for rolling papers. 
That room on the left used to belong to 
R.J. Twidge, philo major and noted space-case. R.J.'s not with us any more, sad to say. She was contemplating the absurdity of existence in the middle of Juniper Road one Friday afternoon when she happened to walk into a moving Volkswagon. I heard that there's an urn with her ashes in it somewhere on seventh floor of the library. Our R.A.'s one door over. You may have heard of her; Mother Turns is the only R.A. on campus who knits mittens for her section. She's really sweet; I just wish she wouldn't make us line up in the hall every night so she can see wh ther we washed behind the ears. I shou1dn't complain, I guess, but castor oil three times a week is a bit much. Screets has been having a really hard time with Mother Turns; this'II be the third time this week that she's had her mouth washed out with soap. The room next door belongs to Fierce Felicia, Sth floor's answer to Atilla the Hun. She got into so many fights at Kubiak's that they finally hired her as a bouncer. Felicia's 'going in for the Keg Toss this year; according to rumor, she wants to break the record throwing Ross Browner instead of the keg. Her room's kind of a mess today; I see Captain Sarah's been cleaning her rifles again. The Captain is one of ND's more enthusiastic ROTCs; she's the only girl on campus with a brush cut. Captain Sarah's been feeling kind of low lately; she camped out on the Circle for three days, waiting for the Red Menace to attack the main gate, but it nevt'!r showed up. ' She's probably out somewhere firing her cannon; explosions seem to have a soothing effect on her nerves. That's 582; "Slam-Dunk'' McCoy. the greatest female athlete in the history of Notre Dame, lives here. "Slam-Dunk" has captained every women's varsity team at ND for the last three years. Sports Illustrated wrote her up as "NO's Super­woman"; from what 1 hear, though, she's still working on leaping tall buildings in a single bound. There doesn't seem to be much of a future for her in the all but non existent realm of women's pro spt.-.rts, but "Slam-Dunk" has no worries; she's booked for five years' worth of Ovaltine 
. commercials after she graduate~. She rooms with her manager, Kate Reiner. Kate's definitely one of the more prorris­


marcy mcbrien 
ing business majors in the country. Half 
the section owes her money ·· at seven per 
cent interest. Kate owns so much stock 
that the Wall Street Journal checks with 
her before they publish the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average. She's had only. one · 
real financial flop, and that was when she 
invested our hall treasury in a horse race 
down in Saratoga over spring break. We 
almost dido 't get her to come down from 
the roof of the library in one piece. but 
Screeks had the brilliant idea of sending 
her an estimate for her funeral. Kate is 
pretty much back to normal now; last I 
heard, she was trying to buy Mount 
Rushmore so that she could turn Abraham 
Lincoln's nose into a ski resort. 
Well, that's about it. You should really come to our end-of-the-year party next Friday. Screeks and Captain Sarah are collaborating on something they call Ba­zooka punch; one glass and you get a recoil. My roommate may possibly be there; we're going to lay her across some chairs and use her for a coat rack. Well, I know you have to get moving; mind you -don't step on Fred's fronds on your way 
out. Catch you later. 
-....._._., ·-·--·­
Music Blitz 
Tonight at Stepan Center, from six 'til 
midnight, the NO Student Union Social 
Commission will present the Spring Music 
Blitz. Music will be by The Slink Rand 
Group and Duke Tumatoe and the All Star 
Frogs, and admission is FREE. 
Duke Tumatoe and the All Star Frogs are 
not foreign to Notre Dame. They have 
performed on campus and at Vegetable 
Buddy's on a number of occasions. 
Champaign, Illinois is what they call their 
hometown, and they are led by guitarist 
and composer Duke Tumah>e. They have 
released an album, Red Pepper Hot. on 
their own label. Trouserworm Tunes, and 
have performed with a number of popular .artists, including Dan Fogelberg, Little Feat, Harry Chapin and Steve Miller. Basically a blues band, their performances have been described as ''unpredictable, uninhibited, and entertaining." 
The Slink Rand Group is composed of 
guitarist Slink Rand, vocalist Mike Huster, 
drummer Paul Chamberlin, and bassist 
Peter Bailey. They play a hard brand of 
rock and roll, their repertoire including 
songs by Led Zeppelin, The Rolling Stones, 
Aerosmith, and Jeff Beck. They have 
performed with Black Oak Arkansa~. REO ·speedwagon, B.B. King, and larry Cory­tell. Please note that many signs incorrectly 
advertise the Sprmg Musk Hlitz. as beir.,~Z Iheld ''Betwt"en the towers on the field.'' It jwill be held at Stepan Center regardless of , the weather. 
.. 

• 
Wednesday, May 3, 1978 
the observer

8 


Carter says new budgeting works 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Jimmy Carter's new budget rules resulted in 25 jobs being cut from the federal job-safety agency and led the Coast Guard to eliminate a boating program which had served its purpose, the White House said yesterday. 
Those were among the benefits claimed for the first year of zero base budgeting, which Carter has ordered the federal governm,ent to rely on exclusively in preparing spending requests for next year, a report by the Office of Manage-
L.LJ 
I 
...... ND 
Gilbert and Sullivan's sparkling operetta. 
April28,29 May 4.5.6 8:00p.m
SMC 
Otaughlin Auditorium

THEATRE 

Phone 2844176 S1d!Fac/S1aff: $2.00 
• ,. 
• • 
f • 
I 
• • • 
• • • 
• 
e Special 
ment and Budget said. 
The report said ,that despite some start-up problems, the tech­nique is off to a good start after a one-year tryout. 
In effect, federal agencies will be shedding the training wheels, they used last year when they gave the president's budget review officers two sets of requests, one prepared in the new zero-base format and the other in traditional form. 
Traditionally, federal agencies seek enough money to cover the costs of last .vear's programs, 
THE MIKAOO 
,_ 

10°/o Discount 
• On All Merchandise To Notre Dame
• 
• & Saint Mary's Students. 
allowing for inflation, plus new programs. They tend to spend the IllQSt time and effort justifying requests for the new programs. 
The idea of zero base budgeting is to justify all programs, even those that have been around for years, from scratch. Hence the name. 
More importantly, agency officials ~re supposed to assign each spending alternative a rank, from the most important to the least important. This amounts to saying which spending project can 
be cut fifst, something government officials are reluctant to do. 
While saying the new method is off to a good start, the report acknowledged some oroblems. Officials sometimes had trouble figuring out what they were sup­posed to accomplish with the taxpayer's money. Some officials simply warned higher-ups of con­sequences of cutting their funds, rather than describing how they could get by for less. Most agencies had trouble figuring out what minimum level of money they ~ could get by on. 
• • The report didn't attempt to 
• 
place a dollar value on savings from the first year of zero-b.ase budget­

• 
ing. "We don't want to oversell 

• 
this thing," said George H. Strauss 


.ofOMB. But the report did give some 
• 
examples of benefits claimed for 

• 
the first year, including the trim­

• 
ruing of 25 low-priority jobs from 


the Occupational Safety and Health • 
Administration and a recommenda­
• tion by the Coast Guard to phase 
• out a program of assisting states to conduct safe-boating programs. 
• "The program had achieved its eobjective,"thereportsaid. 
•• Bloopers delight 
e 

•••••••••••••••••••••••[continued !rom page.~] . 
. -. was done m t Q78. The rhetonc the actors were using then is the same thing that is heard today,'' he ohserved. 

Graff concluded the talk by showing a film made by ''the only genius I've had in all the classes I've taught." ''The kid is a horror freak," he said. He took sequences form famous horror films, spliced them together, and set them to Frank Sinatra singing ''Strangers In The Night." Graff remarked that,:' after this, nothing can fol­low. 
With sunny weather here to stay for a while, 0-Cer's without cars will now have more than one mode of transportation. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 

Alumni -Senior Picnic scheduled for Saturday 
by Reed King A list of all the ND clubs present 
will be given to seniors at the door. 

The first annual Alumni-Senior Doltdanville estimates that over Picnic, ·sponsored by the Notre 100 clubs will be in attendance. Dame Alumni Association and The picnic will be useful for Student Government, will be held seniors to learn more about the Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. areas where they will be living after at Stepan Center. graduation, Dondanville noted. 
According to Patty Dondanville, ''The ND clubs will be able to outgoing alumni representative to provide housing information. busi­Student Government, some 180 ness and personal contacts, and alumni from all over the country general information about their will be at the picnic to talk with areas. Seniors can get to know graduating seniors. The visiting some of the people from where ~tlumni and members of the Alumni they are going to be and learn what Board and Alumni Senate, which the ND clubs can do for them." represents the 58,000 members of Dondanville said. the Alumni Association. Dondanville further noted that the ·Notre Dame clubs from around alumni clubs will also benefit from the nation will be represented at the picnic. ''The alumni want to the picnic. The clubs will be meet the seniors and get new input I 
i 

organized by geographical regions, into their clubs, ideas for club ! 
with a table for each major region, activities, and the students' view­
surrounded by the tables of the points on what's going on around 
l 
satellite clubs. campus." I This is the first time that anything 1 
I 


QJ 
like this has been done, according
E Yearbooks are in to Dondanville, and she hopes that 
0 the picnic will continue as an
and can be picked up 
annual event. Dondanville urged all seniors to,'

in the ballroom of LaFortune on 0 3 
take advantage of this unique. opportunity. ''This will be a great time for graduating seniors to

Tuesday 3-5 
ro 
meet with the alumni in their 
area," she said. Free beer and bratwurst will be

Wednesday 1-5 ' 
Thursday 1-5 
served, and I.D.'s will be check~d at the door, according to Dondan­

E====~P~Ie~a~~~b~r~in:~~O~U~r~N~D~ID~~~~~~~~~~Ljv~ill~e~.~T~h2e~nkisooly~~~
Dame and ~amt 's seniors. 

I 
i 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
I 
I 
I 
' 
I I 
' ATTENTIONl SOPHOMORES Place your ring order before you leaue 
or SUMMER VACATION· This will assure you of hauing it when you 
return to school in the fall HOURS: 9:00 A.M. TO 4:30 P.M. 
i ' 
f 

MON·-FRI.

I ! 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR , HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
CONGREGATION OF THE BLESSED SACRAMENT 
' 

Priests and 8 rot hers serving Christ 
in the Eucharist and 1n Mankind for further tnformation contact: . I Rev. Ernest Falardeau, SSS. Blessed Sacrament Seminary 
5384Wilson Mills Road Cleveland, Ohio 44143 (216) 442-3410 

Wednesday, May 3, 1978 tbe observer 
~~~ ......................................................................................(:'ampus
~...V-Y++""""'"~~~~· ~-~ 

su Board votes tO COntinUe pOliCy 
On April 27, the Board of Commissioners voted 5-2 to con­tinue the Student Union Compli­
mentary Ticket Policy. At the same meeting, the board voted to publi­cize the policy and to solicit student response to it. 
According to the Student Union Steering Committee, whc also 
:ffe~;~dt~ht~~no~iih'ei~!~p~es~~~
put in many hours fo free labor in 
working on Union projects.
Anyone who would like a copy of the policy can obtain it at the 
Student Union office, located on 
the second floor of LaFortune. If you would like to comment on the policy, please call the Ombudsman 
Thompson (629-4496) or Ken Ska-B kl I b a collection of essays by Fr. Charles ology at The Catholic University of 
han(8816) before the end of the 
semester. This past year the German Cub 
Sponsored · t 0 f ts 
a vane Y even including "Innsbrucker Night" at the Senior Bar, a reception for the German consulate at Detroit, and 
two trips to Chicago. 
The club meets several times a 
semester to discuss current topics 
of interest or to hear presentations 
by faculty members on various 
aspects of German culture. 
H

unger Coalition 
-

tO hold intervieWS 
Interviews will be held tomorrow morning for Hunger Coalition di­
uc ey ce e rates E. Curran recently published by America, is a widely known author last lasters mass i ~~e ~D.:~~s=--~n::~ ;~es~~~~~ ofu:~~n~h:n!.:erfc~~ 
. F J' B kl C s c h-d f Ethics -Society of Christian Ethics and the 
r. tm uc ey, . . ., ea o • . . ,
St. Joseph Care Center and Theo-Curra-,, a dtocesan pnest from Catholic Theological Society of logy faculty member at ND, will 1 Rocheskr, NY, who teaches the-America. 
celebrate the last Faster's Mass in ::~~g.Hall at 5:15 p.m. this 
Bus schedule 
annOUnCed 
Buses will run on the Saturday schedule, ending at 12:45 a.m., 
tomorrow and Tuesday, May· 9
(Study Day). The regular MWF schedule will 
followed on all exam days, until 4 
p.m. Saturday. The regular Satur­day schedule will be followed after 4 p.m. on that day. 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • • • e e e • • • • e e • e e • 
-:. HELp WANTED! .: 
•• e •• Part-time positions available : :thiS SUmmer and next SChOOf year·.·
• .•. RIVER CITY,··RECORDS/ • 
•.THE 
RIVER c·/TY REVIEW: • C II p • 

• 
a eter Kernan : 


at 6283 and register your opinion. 
Sign up for FU extended 
The Free University course sign up deadline originally set for last Friday has been extended. Appli­cations from those who wish to teach a Free University course will now be accepted until Friday. For more information, call 7757 or 1158. 
Freshman class 
sponsors mass 
The Freshman Advisory Council 
has plaQned a class mass for 6:30 
this evening. Fr. Francis Cafarelli 
will celebrate the mass at the 
Grotto. In case of rain, the mass 
will be moved to Sacred Heart 
Church. 
Immediately after the service, the class tree will be blessed in front of the Freshman Year of Studies office. 
ND German Club accepts members 
The Notre Dame German Club is now accepting memberships for the 1978-79 school year. Those interes­ted should give their names to Jean 
rectorships. Secretary, treasurer, dining hall fasting and collections, public relations, education, re­search, liturgy and Saint Mary's
directorships are open. Any stu­dents interested in a position
should call John at 8732 or Maria at 
4-1-47~6. 

Rice to discuss abortion tonight 
Tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFor­tune Auditorium, Prof. Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law School will discuss the legal aspects of abortion in the United States. The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Association. 
• MATH MAJORS 
We're looking for recent college grads, Juniors and Seniors, to assume leadership roles as Navy Officers. 
312-657-2234 COLLECT 

There will be no bus service after • • 
Tuesday, May 16• at 2 p.m. : at 277•4242 for an appointment e Seniors to rece.·ve ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
$50 room refund 
Notre Dame Seniors will receive 

their $50 room deposit
minus any deductions for damages,refunds, !!!~!!~!!!~!!!~!!~~~~!!!!=~ this summer through the mail. 
The checks are usually mailed out 
in mid-July. Any graduate who 
does not receive his refund or 
whose refund is delayed should 
contact Edmund Price, the new 
director of housing. 
Curran publishes book on ethics 
Sexual and medical ethics--pri­mary concerns of contemporary moral theology--are the subjects of 

-----wed. may 3. 
6pm 
Wednesday,. May 3, 1978

10 the observer 

HPC refuses comp tickets 

· included in a lottery to determine next year include the completion of by Michael Molinelli 
Because of increasong student which freshmen would re<;eive the LaFortune renovations, resolu­and faculty demand for tickets, ticket~. tion of the housing and current Busick told DelGrande that he has Ticket distribution for sopho-overcrowding problems, a commit­reached "a sell-out situation," and mores, juniors and seniors will J ment to the provision of the Co-ed that a new ticket policy might have probably be run in a . manner report, greater service of the needs to be put into effect this summer. simHar to the way inwhich it was of. the off-campus students, the 
The policy proposed by Busick · run this year, DelGrande said. . establishment of an improved would increase the number of . security program and the creation· tickets available to SMC students In· other matters, McKenna of innovative social responsibility from 181 to 200. It would decrease addressed• the HPC with a state-. programs th b f t. k t 'I bl t ment of his obiectives and goals for 
e num er o tc e s avat a e o " Later in the meeting, Andy 
· 't' t f 200 t 100 d next year. McKenna stated that
vtst mg earns rom o , an Herring presented a proposalwould limit the number of tickets "The most difficult problem facing concerning the L~Fortune renova­available·to freshmen to 400-about any .student government is the tions. 
· k d annual turnover of its leadership."
h If h b f

a t e num er o ttc ets ordere The· proposal, which was unani­
b th f h 1 thl·s year ''The proiects of one administni­
y e res man c ass · , mously supported by the HPC and 
According to Busick's plan, tion, initiated through· dedicated will go before the CLC tonight, enrolling freshmen would be sent effort', can be stalled or ignored by contained two requests. First, it ticket applications over the ineffective transition of these ideas asked that ''the Administration summer, probably in the first few to the next administration,'' follow up on what the Board of 
k 0 f J I All those McKenna said. · 
wee s u Y • Trustees passed.'' Second , it applications received by a certain According to McKenna, top · suggested that the renovation of tday'-possibly August 1 -would be student governlJ!ent .priorities for the basement, as outlined in the =ecce C CCC CCC cccccccccccc cccccc original renovation proposal be 
Now Accept'·ng Appl,·ca.-11•-: ns completed, "even though we
0 realize that all parts of the plan are riot feasible at this time."
I 

The Administration had decided For St. Mary's Judicial Board '78-'79. not to renovate the basement at au because of the legal problems that would have-been encountered by serving beer. The original plan

AppHcations 
ealled for the construction of a pub in the basement. · 
In other business, DelGrande

avaUable in Room 166 La Mans. 
announced that HPC Executive Coordinator Andy Sowder has . decided, for personal reasons, as of the end of this year to resign his

Any questions call_ Maggie 272-1355 
position. A new executive coordi-· nator will be chosen by DelGrnade and presented to the HPC for

all Applications due Tuesday May 9 
approval at the first meeting of next semester.
~============================= 

Sun{~ "'"'S 
4:00 to 6:0tlP.M. 
Monday thru Thursday 5:00 to 7:00P.M. 
Dinners include a trip 
to bountiful salad bar, 
long grain and wild rice 
or baked potato and 
bread. 


PRIME Rk'\\, 
Petite Cut 

SCROD, 
Broiled in lemon butter 

BARBEQUED 
SHORT RIBS, 
In our homemade sauce 


THE STUDENTS E.NVOYED 

Lebanese fighting erupts 
not known. The U.N. jeep with theBEIRUT, Lebanon [AP] -Leftist two French soldiers had not been gunmen fired on French peace­located.
keeping troops in southern 
At about the same time a French
Lebanon twice yesterday, killing armored car with a crew of three one and wounding seven, a United was reported missing. It was foundNations spokesman said. Five 
destroyed nearTyre. No
French soldiers and a Palestine information was available on its·Liberation Organization officer 
crew. 

were reported missing. 
Lebanese leftists militiamen 
Among those woulded was Col. 
allied with the Palestinians · saidJean Salvan, commander of the they launched a mortar attack onFrench forces in southern Lebanon. 
French headquarters Monday . in A United Nations spokesman in retaliation for an "ambush" ofNew York gave,this account: militiamen Sunday by French -Palestinian gu~rrillas ambushed troops.
a French vehicle northeast of Tyre The PLO said one of its men wasyesterday evening, wounding one killed and two French paratroopersFrench soldier . 
were wounded in the revengeAt that time a Palestine Libera­attack, which broke out while the · tion Organization (PLO) represen­PLO was mediating a dispute
tative was at French battalion between the French and the militia­headquarters in Tyre talking with men over the "ambush" incident.·
Col. Salvan. They drove to the The PLO said the dead man was
ambush area to investigate, 
the bodyguard of the missing PLO ..
followed by two French soldiers in officer. A spokesman for the a U.N. jeep. 
Lebanese leftists said two Leba-·Shortly after they left, Palestin­nese were killed .in the "ambush;'ians opened fire on the barracks, of a militia patrol near Tyre.
killing one French soldier and Yesterday's casualties broughtwounding five. 
to six the number. of U.N. troop,s.
Salvan's hulled-riddled jeep was killed since the· peace-keepingfound in Tyre. Salvan was reported forces entered south Lebanon in. 
out of danger in a Beirut hospital, March to supervise an Israelibut the fate of the PLO officer was 
withdrawal. · 

Earl Campbell sets goals for new career with Oilers 
NEW YORK (AP] • Earl Campbell, 
season. the No. 1 pick in the National "I want my teammates to accept
Football League's collegiate draft, me as a human being as well as a 
said he doesn't expect to walk in football player. In order for this. to 
and take over with the Houston happen, I can't be nervous. 
Oilers. Anyhow, if I get nervous, my blood 
"It's up to Coach Burn Phillips to pressure will just go up," he said. 
rate me," said the 6-foot-1, 200-Campbell, an Associated Press 
pound running back of the Univer­first team All-American, said he 
sity of Texas. 

has reached a tentative contract 
"The pace-is m1,1ch faster in the agreement with the Oilers and that pros than in college but I really he expects to sign this week. 
don't anticipate too many prob­''The biggest part of all this is lems. I'm just Earl." 
being able to help my mother,
Campbell, the 1977 Reisman she's not getting any younger. I'm Trophy winner, ran for 1,744 yards glad to stay in Texas near myin his senior year with the Long­family. I'rn in the process of fixing horns. However, he said he won't up my mother's house. She's told put pressure on himself to produce me I don't have to, but I want to,''right away. 
he said. 

"I'm not going to try to be The Oilers were able to draft 
Jimmy Brown, O.J. Simpson or Campbell after trading four draft Tony Dorsett. 1'm just going to picks and tight end Jimmy Giles to work hard and , amow what Earl can the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
do." 

Phillips had indicated he would use 
"I look up to three different Campbell as a halfback. 
football players -O.J., Brown and ''It doesn't matter to me whether 
Franco Harris -they all can run, I play halfback or fullback, just so block and catch the football; that's long as I play," said Campbell.the kind of player I want to be." "I'll just try to get the job done my 
Campbell stressed that he has way. I someone likes my style, two najor goals for his rookie that's great." 

Wednesday, May 3, 1978 the observer 11 
In this years annual clash between Lewis struck again in the second the Saint Mary's Championship . half, this time when quarterback Mary Ellen Pearce scored from Team and the Notre Dame Interhall Byrne Murphy handed to Erin fifteen yards out on a sweep, and 
Lewis beats Gymnastics team 
Regina to needs coaches
Champ, the Lewis Ha11 Team Bums who scored from five yards quarterback Murphy ran in the reigned victorious over Regina out, off-tackle. Mary Ellen Pearce extra point herself. 
Hall, 20-0. , optioned right for the extra point, "It was a very fun experience," Notre Dame's gymnastics team Lewis opened the scoring on the and the score stood 13-0. commented Pearce, who accounted ne7ds .a coach for the fall semester.
claim football 
very first play of the game when Regina quarterback Cathy Bickel· for seven of Lewis' points, "Our Thi~. Is • a club sport, and the Safety Nanci Kelly ran back the tried desperately to bring her team team really worked well together, 1 position Is open to a graduate or opening kickoff for a touchdown. 1back, but the tenacious Lewis feel fortunate to win, and am proud undergraduate student who is in-

title, 20-0 
the extra point was missed, but 'Defense refused to budge. to be a part of the campus terested in giving instruction to -----;m~~-----..!;Le~w=is:_;I~e~d.!6~-~0:.._________.;Le::w~is~c!ap~p~e:d~t~he~s:c~o:ri~n~g~w~h:e:n_c:hampion team." men and women. For information 
NOTICES -----------~c;:a=ll~N~oe=l=o~·S~u=l~liv:a:n:a:t:6:2~22~.=:-1 Doris\wears : army boots! 
' Today is\National Dirtball Day. Take a
HAVE YOU CONSIDERED: a career in 
Dlrtball to lunch.
real e~tate? Company with a good 



CLASSIFIEDADSCLASSIFIEDADS
reputation for commercial and invest­Horgan and Cranement sales seeking potential sales associ­Finally have your attention! Thanks for
ate. Call Berrien Real Estate Services 
the fun times!
61'6-983-1585, St. Joseph Ml location· 
TrishAsk for Florian Beles. · 

FOUND: Kite in entrance to O'Shag. Call What makes the Keenan Review look like 6906 to identify. WANTED a girl scout function? Dillon No Talent 3T Holy Cross
Paint. a house this summer and live for 
show. Kegs in Green field prior to show Have a great summer!
free m that same furnished house a 
LOST: GoJd wire frame glasses in vicinity starting at 6.
couple bloc.ks from campus. 2n-3604. of SMC clubhouse Sat. night. Name on Two St. Mary's students desperately Trish inside of bow. Call 1no. need housing close to campus for 
Mark, Jim, Doc, Koz, Brian, etc.
Work for me this summer a few hours a summer. Willing to pay up to $50 per 
One more day of classes and it is all
week and live for free .. ..2n-3604. 
month. Call : 284-4004 or 284-5201. 
over. Hope the real world is good to all ofFOR RENT you!
~eed rid~ to Alberquerque after gradua­OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer-year round tion. Will share driving and expenses Europe, S. America, Australia Asia Sue 
The last luue of the Observer for the
Call Debbie at 4-1-4898. · Staying for the summer? Rent ahouse off etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly semester will be Friday May 5. Deadline 'ello old golden eyed partner!
campus. Lower summer rent, close to expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor· forCiassified ads is 5 pm today. You're right...some things do work out
Will do typing. Neat accurate Call cam~us. Call 8730 or 8742 for more mation -Write: BHP Co., Box 4490,
287-5162. ' . deta1ls. better than expected, making it possible
Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA. 94704. 
to keep on shining...even in the darkKitten, 
Say hi to Taos for me. · 
Dissertations, manuscripts, ...etc., ty­S~mmer rental • 4 bedrooms, walking ~eed ride to Alberquerque after gradua­Kindly kiss me. I love you, 
Bill Mush and the Fellas
ped. IBM selectric II. Linda's Letters distance, great neighborhood, great buy tion. Will share driving and expenses. 
Now, time for good study
287-4971. . What a place!! 287-7617. ' Call Debbie 4-1-4898. THanks Deb! 
Is anyone planning a St. Louis Baggage
Truck your goodies home to Rochester Four bedroom house for rent this summer WANTED: Notre Dame students for part Jim Fritsch; truck? Anyone Interested In driving or
NY. Call Frank 232-3455. You made bookstore worth going to..
near campus. Contact Myron Busby at time lb!Jdg~t director. Knowledge of using one please call Maureen 6856.
287-7617. S.W.I.
accounting Important. Should be interes­NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary ted in Q-based budgetting. Prefer 
Mr. Snuggles;
Inc., P_rofessional Typing Service, IBM 4-5-6-h~uses near Portage and Angela. someone who would like to develop Need riders to Lexington or Louisville 
How about a game of "love"?
Selectncs. 85 cents per page, minimum. Rent adJUSted to number of students. on analysing real estate trans­Thursday Morning. Peggy • 4-4870.
ex~rtise 
Tennis shoes

Call 232-Q898 "When you want the 
~;:~~ewell-maintained houses. Call actiOns. Contact Florien Beles, Berrien
best." SMC-ND '79 picnic -SMC club house ­
Real Estate Service. 616-983-1585, St. 
Dear Treas. Babington,
4-9. May 3rd.
Joseph MI. 

So you are from Howard but you areMORRISSEY LOAN FUND !orm New Orleans. Hope we meet again
Friday, May 5is the final day to pay your Artist to help Illustrate book of poems to
I need an apt. for the summer. Please ask
FOR SALE In Sept.
loan. All loans not paid will be turned in for John-at 289-4871. be published this year. Call John 
M.A.M.

to Student Accounts. Penalty will be =·or Wednesday. 6-10 pm.charged. No exceptions. 
Need ride to Texas: Dallas, Houston etc. 
Car Wash only $1. Sat. and Sun. May 6
Share dr;ving and expenses. 2747.'
LOOKLOOKLOOKLOOKLOOKLOOK.... and 7 ... 1-4. Behind SMC security house.
DEAR OBSERVER TYPISTSLOST AND FOUND 
FOR SALE: One refrigerator • a little Sponsored by Augusta Hall
How could you spell pneumonoultraml·
FEMALE CAMP COUNSELORS
larger than normal compact. Call croscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis correctly
NEEDED
Brendan at 8467. Mother's Day is May 14... Give the one
and yet spell my name wrong Twlcel?? ' 
FOUND: In student parking lot pair of Eastern area T.T.T. camp, Wolcottville, 
you love a puppy or kltten ...272-2520.
Bill Bruford
contact lenses in lens case. Call3564. ln. C~nt~ct: Ms. Pat Buede, 130 Parker
Two twin bedspreads -orange and 
St., Cmcmnatti, Ohio. 45219.
brown, and beige and white patterns -Every thing you always wanted to know
Dear Bill,
LOST: A Kodak tele·instamatic camera 
quilted -excellent condition! $32 for the name not about fields but were afraid to ask.......
.Because your is in the
withthe initials MVS on the back at the Riders needed to KY derby· Louisville
pair. Call 4-1-4001. Mary Manusco will present extension
dictionary·.
carnival Friday night. Call Mary at 2152. leaving Thursday. Joan 272:5152. ' fields on Thursday May 4at 4 pm In RmObserver typists
Stereo equipment major brands discount 224 Madelm. Corne one...come all.
LOST: Keys on leather ring between the Need one ride to Albany NY. Have little
on .fui!Y guarnateed, factory sealed Dear Observer typists, Open to the public.
rugby field and mud pits. Call 5729. to take. Share gas and driving. Steve
aud1o-v1deo eqt. Elliot Ent., Park Court, Ditto
8998.

Buchanon MI. 49107. Call Niles toll free John Malcom....
Annie HaslamLOST: Takumar 150.00 camera lens 
683-Q121. Have you ever heard the expression
(telephoto 135 mm) with case and lens Need ride to Danbury CT. area; share o 
M.Y.O.B.? Try It· the rest of us will beDear Annie,
protecter. Call 2n-4585. & E. Mark 3506.
FOR SALE: 3 floral bed speads with dust Bummer. glad. ruffles and curtains. Great price. Call 
Observer typists
FOUND: One plymouth tear key on black NEED-Bycycle-cheap. Will pay cash.
SMC 4563. S.H.
key chain with a SagQitarlus medallion. Call 7308. Slow dances are 
better than discoBarb Phillips,

One lined blue demm jacket with no 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL AND USC anyday. Had a great weekend.
Allow me to apologize profusely tor the
identification. WANTED: Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale.
FOOTBALL: UCLA MARYLAND AND That guy from ~c
O.bserver personal that you found ·so
One navy blue hooded sweat shirt . Call 4-1-4381.
KENTUCKY BASKETBALL PICTURES distasteful. I find It quite bizarreOne navy blue windbreaker. 
FOR SALE. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED KTR 
on executive like rent ho~~ver, that a lovely, talented, andOne Timex watch a black leather MATERIAL AT A LOW PRICE. CALL Female would to lev1t1cously deuteronomous young lady as Good luck next year...whereevr you
watch band. furnished house or large apt., 3 or 4
DOUG AT 8982 OR STOP BY318 ZAHM. and your giraffe end up.
All items found at the An Tostal Volley bedrooms. Children visit on weekends. yourself would openly dlsaprove of a 
love, Meg

JOurnalistic association with four of
ball tournament courts by the towers last Call Ann Brunston, 233-4101.
Small Sofa Ideal for single sized room Britains foremost rock stars: namely, Bill
week. To claim call Ted 3209. 
$15. Call Maureen 6865. · G~t in style! Excellent cuts! Reasonable
Bruford, John Watton, myself (of course)
L~kin,g for summer employment? Doc 
pnces! Call Kim 2n-o615.
and Ted Twardzik! I
FOUND: 2keys with 118 in front of Lewis P1erce ssaloon is hiring food servers bar
U~ golf balls ...$20 per 100 and other
Hall call Observer tenders and cocktail waitresses. Must be Robert Fripp
pnces. Call 272-()783. SMC Students....we want you to work on
PS: Who loves ya, baby?
able to train immediately. Apply In 
freshmen orientation. For applications
LOST: Two rings In Lafortune· powder person. 2-6 pm, 120 N. Main St.
FOR SALE: ~ew 'Yorker 3speed bycycle. and Information stop In or call Student
There once was a green MGB
room. SMC class ring (in. MMW-BSN Mishlwauka.
Good condition. Must sell. Call Jack at Activities Office (166 LeMans 4319).
Who needed a new owner you see'78) and initial ring. Call Mary 4·1-4764 6706. 
or Jim 8287. Reward$$$. Female roomate prefer grad student So ~uy a new toy 
Notre Dame Men ­It w111 bring extreme joy
summer or summer and next school year.
Refrigerator for sale...6 month old com­We want you to help SMC freshmen
And so wilf the money for me
LOST -A pair of blue-grey prescription Call Pam 2297 or 288·7468.
pact. Price negotiable. Please call Mimi Exellent condltlon...4-1~1 move Into their dorms on saturday Aug.
sunglasses. 7957. 
6723 26th. Sign up and information In student PERSONALS activities office (166 LeMans; 4-14318).
Very cool, Shari.
FOUND: One pair of contacts In faculty 
'73 vega Chev. 2-door. Bids accepted only before...wlthout
parking lot. Call 3564. We were lying
NO CreciH Union 283-Q62 "Milicent . question the notalent show will be here Mad Dog STEVE RODGERS....! hear a symphony­Friday nlte. Admission: Two red eyes. Notre Dame Is nice but Madison is nicer. how about a response?
LOST: Small hammered gold ring of great 
'77 Flreblrd Eaptrlt 3 speed AM-FM I Diana Ross
See you there soon?! Good luck onpersonal value. If found please call 
track stereo, $3,999.99. ND CrtdH Union 'If anyone knows the whereabouts of Bob
Maritza 1915. finals. ------?--~----------­
283-6262 "Milicent" Burtchl's children please give him a call L.F.
·---------------------and let him know. Call 1056.
LOST: 'First basemen's baseball glove by '15 Ford elite 2-door, gl'lln, AM-Radio 
Happy birthday little one!
senior bar. Ask for Andy 8891. 
A..C, 12,213 miles. $3,500. ND cradH 
George Scanlon-did anyone ever tell you Pee Wee Penguin
union. 28:H262 "Millicent"
LOST: Antique white shawl at the that you look like Jena Paul Belmondo? 1 ND-SMC senior formal In Chicago. think you do....just ask me. Old you have ND-SMC Junlon: This is the final week
'15 Audl Foxy Type 2s, 2-door, 19,151
Reward. 4-1-4628. . fun at the WSND banquet? I think I'm In for $50 deposits tc Insure yourself a spot
mlln. Bids accepted. NO mdlt Union 
like with you. onthe Senior Clan Trtp to Southern Cal
282-6262 "Milicent"
FOUND: One plymouth car key on black Jackie 0 ND:LaFortune lobby 1-4 pm, SMC: 
Lemans Lobby 7-9 pm.
chain with a sagglttarlus medallion, at 
1977 Mobile Home [Monarch] 70 X14, 3
the An Tostal volleyball tournament To Dang Michel,
bedroom, 2 baths, VIllage Green Part
courts. Call Ted 3209. Randy Riche loves you Happy Birthday Katle\K~Jarney
Skirted, $7,999.111. Clll Millie ND Credit 
From 3-B Fischer
Union 283-6262.
LOST: One blue fiberglass raquetball Haircuts, trims. styles, ....Cheap! Call 
raquet with leather grip. Reward. Call There once was a guy named Nick
GREAT FURNITURE BUYSII Couch Betsy SMC 4530.
1605 if found. Whose number was 3286
desk, chairs, tables...call 288-5182. ' 
Make sure you call him today 
RETURNING OBSERVER TYPISTS:
LOST: Blue NO jacket at Nickles. Because its his 20th birthday.
1974 Pinto Squire wagon -must see to PLease Indicate to me by the end of the
Reward. Name In jacket. 
appreciate. Automatic, air, excellent week the days and times you want to type
almost a llmrlck..... it would
condition. 2n-'H>7. That was next year. Call me or leave anote In my
LOST: Vivitar lnstamatic with priceless have been much more clever to add one box.
film at senior formal. Reward!!!! Karen final line like "or he will get Incredibly
Two Yamaha NS-5 speakers and Harmon Mardi 
6782. sick" (don't blame me...l'm just atypist)
Kardo.n 330 Creceiver. Practically new. 
Bargam. Call 3081. Need agraduation gift for afriend? Free
FOUND: Glass case ....call to identify at Scats-puppies and kittens· take your pick! Call 
the Observer office. Congrats on Baylor. May our paths
Capri -'73 -\1-6 Deluxe 4 speed loaded 272·2520 after 3 pm
cross again (professionally?) sometime.
offers 7232.
LOST: One pair of maroon sunglasses Be happy • Be good. 
AJI tllole lntlrestld In typing fir 1111 
between Flanner and the Library during Skaggs
Student Union Ticket office hass 200 Plitt Oblemr nut yur all Mardi at 4-1·
An Tostal . If found, please call Sue 
tickes left to sell. Any faculty member ltm. Paid position.
4-1-5n3. Reward!!!!! Mav
staff member, or student who wants 
Thanks for making An Tostal and this
tickets for the summer get to the office by Student checks cashed with SMC·ND 10
LOST: yellow calculus notebOOk on South whole semester the best ever. LOve va
·friday May 5 . at Georgetown pharmacy. Georgetown
Quad Friday afternoon at An Tostal. Call forever. • shopping Center or Mar Main Pharmacy,
Joe at 1763 . His grade depends on it. R.C. 
426 N. Mich. 


1.L2----"te.h.:.JeL....:!Io~bE.:Isi\Lle...rvL....IL.:IeiUor_____w_ed_n_esd_ay, May J, 1978 




~FL picks 3 ND players in 1st round 
• · this season. His brother will be by MJU'k Perry 
-~ ._ ...._.·__ ..~_ "*'·. *" entering his senior year at Notre
·_·.··r. 
~ ...:-=~ ~ -··:
Sports Writer Dame next year. 
Notre Dame, college Football's '." "v ·~.~r·> << ... ·it • , ~ ~~ w:·~:~;;d:~. d~:~~~~t!~e J~~:~~ National Champions for 1977, were · · · ~· .. · coach Monte Qark when speaking wetl represented in yesterday's , tt ~ ;.,. '\~~ s· of Bradley. "We feel that with r National Football League draft, as l ...•-::'~ ·'\.!t.."\'' Luther and third~year pro James 
three players were picked by teams ...... '1;.· , ,,. Hunter we have the best pair of in the first round, more than any ;;_~.._ corners in the league." 
other college. ~:~ Bradley, a 6-foot-2, 202 pound 
Ken MacAfee, AJI-American "'-"'-'v• ~ Muncie, Indiana native, played in, tight end and recipient of the •~f ·. · • every game during his four years at Walter Camp Trophy as college t ;i Notre Dame and earned a post­football's outstanding player, was ' \ ""'· season bid to the Hula Bowl as a the first Notre Dame player to be ' jr· senior. Lions scouts rate him a selected. The San Francisco 49ers j ·· ·-•:? . ·'' very physical player who can run 40 
tabbed "Bbig Mhac" as the seventh '~N 'if_.·~.-_··•_·~_· :M .· ,... yards din1 4.4 seconds.
.. ...·_.·.. 

payer1 to e c osen. " ·~;;;c: ' ~ • Bra ey set a career record for f l!"-medi~~ely t:ol~~i~g ~~cA-~ A·: inte~ceptiobn s at Nbo~re ~ame, thde 
ee sse1 ec Ion, e mcmna 1 en-_,..,._ .. . ·... · '·· mos nota 1 e one emg Is 99 yar gals made defensive end Ross return for a touchdown to defeat Browner the eighth player to be Purdue in 1975. selected. Browner received the Speaking from the brokerage Lombardi Trophy for the past Notre Dame players [I. tor.] Ken MacAfee, Ross Browner, and Luther Bradley wer~ all picked in firm of Merrill Lynch, Fenner & season, and was also awarded the the first round of the NFL draft. 1,758 yards and 15 touchdowns in Smith, wher he works after gradua-Outland Trophy in 1976, as college exception and not have an agent his four seasons with the Irish, but came in the first round, but ting from Notre Dame in Decem­football's outstanding lineman. representing him at contract talks. coach Dan Dev.ine had said that Cincinnati grabbed the 6-foot-3, ber, Bradley said he was "pretty 
All-American defensive back "I've been out to San Francisco he improved g~eatly as a blocker, 247 pound All-American while they excited because I wanted to stay in Luther Bradley was the third Irish and think I can work with the and that figures to be his role in the could. the Midwest," where his parents senior to be picked, going to the. people there on my own," said future. "We had thoughts to get some-could come and see him play. Detroit Lions as the eleventh player MacAfee, a 6-foot-4 tight end who "My blocking should be made a body in a more acute situation for He said he would like to continue to be selected. i~ the son of a former member of little easier with O.J. Simpson in us, but this choice was made on the as a cornerback if at all possible 
Other Notre Dame players who the New York Giants football team. the backfield,'' commented MacA-best player available," Brown said. and was getting an agent to handle were picked in the five rounds ''The organization impressed fee when asked about his pro ''It also came down to which talks with the L-ions. completed yesterday were defen-me," he added. "They've got a future. -person we would not want to play "I'm just tickled to have been sive end Willie Fry, picked by the young coach, Pete McCulley, and Bengals general manager Paul against." picked in the first round. That Pittsburgh Steelers in the second Joe Thomas, the team's gener.al Brown figured that Browner would Browner, from Warren, Ohio, means the Lions think a little of round (and returning to the city manager, seems dedicated toward not be available when their turn was one of three Irish co-captains me," Bradley said. 
were he disposed of Pitt quarter-building a winner." P-------------------.;.;.--~;..;.~-------;.;..;...;-._____.. 
back Matt Cavanaugh for a few "My dream is going to change," games last season), offensive MacAfee added. "When I was in guard Ernie Hughes, who joined junior high I dreamed of playing for 
NFL First Round Picks 
MacAfee in San Francisco in the Notre Dame. Then I dreamed 
third round, and defensive back about winning a national cham­
Team Player Position CoUegeTed Burgmeier, selected by the pionship. Now I'm going to be 1. Houston Earl Campbell Running Back TexasMiami Dolphins in the fifth round. dreaming about playing in the 
2. Kansas City Art Still Defensive End KentuckyMacA fee announced yesterday Super Bowl." 
3. New Orleans Wes Chandler Wide Receiver Floridathat he was going to be an MacAfee caught 128 passes for 
4. Jets Chris Ward Offensive Tackle Ohio State
f Ray 0 ' Brien~=======================================================================================================================: 
5. 
Buffalo Terry Miller Running Back Oklahoma State 

6. 
Green Bay James Lofton Wide Receiver Stanford 

7. 
San Fran. Ken MacAfee Tight End Notre Dame 

8. 
Cinn. Ross Browner Defensive End Notre Dame


\
I The Road Runner 
9. 
Seattle · Keith Simpson Defensive Back Memphis State 

10. 
Giants Gordon King Offensive Tackle Stanford 

11. 
Lions Luther Bradley Defensive Back Notre Dame


·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.The Irish Eye
·.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.·.·.·.·····························-·.·..·.·.·..·.·.·.·.···-·-·.·-·-·.·-·.·.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.·.·.·-·-·. 
12. Cleveland Clay Matthews Linebacker uscJeff Carpenter woke up Monday morning with a sore, split lip. While it 
13. Atlanta Mike Keno Offensive Tackle Michiganonly hurt when he smiled, Carpy was all smiles Monday morning as he 14. San Diego John Jefferson Wide Receiver Arizona State 
,, savored the satisfaction of owning bragging rights to the Notre Dame 
.~ 
15. St. Louis Steve Little Punter-Kicker Arkansas 
·, ;~ playgrounds. How appropriate it was for Carpenter to end his Notre 
16. Cinn. Blair Bush Center Washington
r''t 
Dame basketball career on a happy note. 

17. Tampa Bay Doug Williams Quarterback GramblingThings were not all smiles this season for the man they call ''The 
18. New Eng. Bob Cryder Guard AlabamaRoadrunner." There is an understanding between management and 19. St. Louis Ken Greene Defensive Back Washington St.
personnel in the upper echelons of the sporting world that says a player 20. Los Angeles Elvis Peacock Running Back Alabamacan think what he wants as long as he does not think out loud. Carpenter 
21. Minn. Randy Holloway Defensive Tackle Pitt 
)" t ._: i broke this unwritten vow of silence and spoke to a now defunct Chicago 22. Pittsburgh Ron Johnson Defensive Back Eastern MichiganDaily News reporter about what was running through his mind.
; 
23. Cleveland Ozzie Newsome Wide Receiver AlabamaCarpenter confided that he was considering transferring to DePaul after
'$ 
24. San Fran. Dan Bunz Linebacker Long Beach St.
his sophomore year. After a much celebrated high school career at
' 
25. Baltimore Reece McCall Tight End Auburn
(~ Fenwick a non-playing role did not sit too well. Jeff was not the only 
26. Green Bay John Anderson Linebacker Michigan
~ person on campus that disagreed with Digger Phelps' substitution policy, 
27. Denver Dan Latimer Defensive Tackle Miami (Fla.)
but he was the only one that let a million other people know how he felt. 
28. Dallas Larry Bethea Defensive Tackle Michigan State
~ 
While the controversy continued to burn between Phelps and Carpenter, ( the team's spark plug continued his fiery play when Digger allowed him ( on the court. During his infrequent appearances, Carpenter continued to { put in mileage and dive for loose balls as he had always done. Carpenter's
·"'
i. lack of presence on the court did not filter into the locker room where he 


t SMC netters win triangular 
owned tre full respect of the team, something no person could ever take
tr 
from him. · r n As a graduating senior, Carpy's varsity career was "water under the by Debbie DahrUng the regionals, we have a good Bracken (SMC) def. Wiley, 10-6. .-1 bridge." By now he was considered by most Irish basketball fans to be a Sports W rlter chance to send a few girls to the .Scott (SMC) def. Price, 6-0, 6-2. 
it 
gritty guard that lacked the outside shot but made up fo~ any dificiencies Nationals in Santa Barbara, Exhib.--Brogger (SMC) def. Geurts with hustle and a desire to play the game. He was admired by many for California, in June." 10-2. !J his unblemished character and perpetual movement on the basketball The netters of Saint Mary's upped Results of last weekend's meets Heckler-Schultz(IS) def. Timm­
~ 
court, but certainly he will not be remembered with names like Batton and their yearly record to 9-2 this are as follows: Purcell, 10-3. ~ Schuster-Griffin (SMC) def.
Williams. weekend by defeating the Univer­SMC 6, U. of Winols [ED.] 3
Carpy's style of play was symbolic of the ~playground hoopster. He sity of Illinois-Edwardsville and Dorsett-Linnan, 10-3. quietly helped his team to six victories in Bookstore VII before setting up Indiana State both by a score of 6-3. Timm (SMC) def. Ziegencuss, 6-1, Brogger-Bracken (SMC) def. his grand finale on a basketball court. The man that forgot ~ow to s~oo~ or Competing in a triangular match 1-6,6-4. Stevens-Wiley, 6-4,6-3. 
I).J 
'·.lro'.., began doubting that he ever learned, brought back tnemones of hts high at Indiana State in Terre Haute, the Purcell (SMC) def. Depper, 6-1, Exhib.--O'Brien-Scott (SMC) def. 
•,$ ·' school days in Saturday's semi-final game. Carpenter put on a show that two victories give Saint Mary's a 6-2 . Price-Geurts, 10-2. 
i"./ 
~ ~; brought a wildly cheering Bookstore crowd !o its feet. It was Carpenter's spring season record of 3-1, with Crader (ILL.) def. Schuster, 2-6, !ii first standing ovation which few of the non:starters ever get the chance to one match remaining (Ball State at 6-2, 6-2. 
If-'. 
I{; enjoy. Quite appropriately, with Digger at courtside, the Roadrunner home on Saturday). These winning Pierson (ILL.) def. Bracken, 7-5, 
*Observer

,. 
played perhaps the finest game of his college career. He opened the game records have qualified SMC to 6-2. 
with a driving layup and then continuedi to connect on seven more participate in the regionals for the Griffin (SMC) def. Szymanski, 3-6, 
f consecutive shots from all over the asphalt. The repertoire included first time in their tennis history. 6-0, 6-4. 

Sports
~ i driving bank shots, pull-up jumpers, fall-away jumpers, running According to Kathleen Cordes, Scott (SMC) def. Paterline, 6-2, 
,.
,, 7-5.
one-handers and swishing foul shots. Indeed, Carpy had saved the best SMC tennis coach, "We have some 
('•_ ·'· for last and when the smoke cleared, Dave Batton and the TILCS found really outstanding players this year Exhib.--O'Brien (SMC) def. Wild, 
I 
their bid for a third consecutive championship ended by one player. · and having Saint Mary's in the 10-4. Baseball game H In the final contest The Roadrunner was not as brilliant as the day before, regionals for the first time is 
Ziegencuss-Crader (ILL.) def. :! but quite appropriately since Saturday's -performance was out of great." Timm-Purcell, 6-2, 6-1. 
to be telecast 
l 
character. Carpenter went back to leg work, barking out si~na!s and In the match against the Univer­Schuster-Griffin (SMC) def. Szymanski-Depper, 7-5~5-7,6-4.
crashing the offensive boards. The result was the same: a 21-19 win and a sity of Illinois, the Belles easily 
on WSND

Brogger-O'Brien (SMC) def. 
cherished Bookstore title. Carpy ended his career on a winning note; it handled their opponents by win­
!"'-·· 
The Notre Dame baseball teamPierson-Wild, 6-0, 1-6, 6-3.
didn't really matter that it was not in the confines of the ACC. ning 4 singles and 2 doubles will take on the Uniyersity of
As "the people's choice," Carpenter got alt ~hat he deserved. There are matches. Against Indiana State, SMC 6, Ind. State 3 
u; 
Michigan in a home doubleheader, 
~ i' many fine players on the basketball team but unfortunately only those Saint Mary's won by the same Haeckler (IS) def. Timm, 6-4, 4-6, 
I )! beginning at 1 p.m. today at Jake 
; I that average double figures are truly shown appreciation. Carpy's margins, although several of the 6-3. 
Kline Field. 

I contributions won't be found in the score books. What many Notre matches were moved inside where Purcell (SMC) def. Dorsett, 6-2, WSND-AM (640) will broadcast' Darners, saw this weekend was the kind of efforts The Roadrunner pro sets were contested. 7-5. 
the second game, beginning somecontributed. We can only thank the spirit of Bookstore Basketball for Cordes added, "With good per­Schultz (IS) def. Schuster, 10-8. 
time between 2:30 and 3 p.m.

ti,•' bringing that out. Oh yes, thanks Jeff Carpenter! formances against Ball State and in Griffin (SMC) def. Scheppero, 10-3 
{ 
. ' 
L' 



