
by Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor 
University Trustee Dr. Thomas 
P. Carney addressed an unofficial meeting of the Faculty Senate last night, answering questions on top­ics ranging from the role of the University Provost. to relations between faculty and students. 
Carney is chairman of the Trus­tees' subcommittee on faculty af­fairs, past chairman of the sub­committee on student affairs, and a member of the University Board of Fellows. 
Carney emphasized that his op­inions "are not necessarily those of the management," but said, "If they are not, I'll try to make them so'' 
Carter hopes for energy solution, tax cuts in address to nation 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter held out the promise of income tax cuts for 96 percent of the nation's taxpayersfastnight in a State of the Union message that chided Congress for an energy deadlock he said is becoming intolerable. 
"On energy legislation we have failed the American people,'' Car­ter said. "Not much longer can we tolerate this stalemate." 
His first address on the State of the Union produced no major surprises, nor did the SO page written catalog of administration programs he presented to the reconvened 95th Congress. 
Still, he presented a hefty a­genda to an election year Congress he had said he would not overload with proposals. 
• • Militarily, politically, eco­nomically, and in spirit, the state of our union is sound," Carter said in his text for a nationally broadcast appearance at a joint session of Congress. 
While saying the United States faces "no single overwhelming crisis,'' the president told the curtain raising session of the 1978 Congress that, nevertheless, "pro­found, national interests are at stake," notably in the realm of the economy. 
After first again appealing for enactment of his stalled energy program, Carter sketched in broad outline a forthcoming proposal to revise and' simplify the tax laws and at the same time "reduce the tax burden on American citizens by $25 billion. 
"Almost 517 billion in income tax cuts will go to individuals," he said. "Ninety-six percent of American taxpayers will see their taxes go down. For a typical family of four this will mean an annual savinli! of more than $250 -a tax 
The trustee commended the Senate's Committee on Admin­istration for its statement on the role of the Provost, approved at the Senate' s December meeting and forwarded to the Provost Search Committee· and the Trustees. "It's an excellent document," he said. "I couldn't agree more." 
Carney said the main consid­eration at the Board level in the selection of a new Provost is "Should the Provost be considered as successor to tht: president?" The Senate statement defines the role of the Provost a:s primarily that of "chief academic officer" and states that he "should be chosen 
for his qualifications as Provost, rather than for his promise as as President." 
reduction of aboiJtt 20 percent.'' The president did not explain what he meant by a typical family of four. 
Carter also said he will submit a plan tomorrow to cut federal excise taxes by $2 billion, which he said would "directly r·educe the rate of inflation." In addition, he called for "strong addittional incentives for business investment through substantial cuts in corporate tax rates and improvements in the investment tax credit." 
Taking the wraps off the gist of a new anti-inflatiCtn program, the president restate:d his opposition to wage and price controls and said: 
"I am therefotre asking govern­ment business, labor and other groups to join in a voluntary program to moderate inflation by holding wage andl price increases in each sector of th•e economy during 1978 below the average increases of the last two yt~ars." 
Carter also made a strong pitch for civil service reform and said he will call for the· creation of a separate Department of Educa­ti0n " 
T~uching bdefly on foreign affairs, Carter said his amdinistra­tion "has restored a moral basis for our foreign policy" and declared, "the world must know that in support of human rights the United States will stand firm." He went on: 
"We expect no quick or easy results, but the:re has been signifi­cant movement toward greater freedom and humanity in several parts of the wotdd.'' 
Reporting that thousands of po­litical prisoners have been freed, he said, •'the l1eaders of the world 
-even our ideollogical adversaries ­now see that their attitude towards fundamental human rights affects 
Carney said he would not like to exclude the Provost from consider­ation as President, but would not limit the Provost position to poten­tial candidates for President either. 
He noted that the University 
by-laws currently require that the University President be a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Consequently, if the provostship were considered a training ground for the presidency, the choice would necessarily be limited to members of the Congregation. 
Carney said he did not think the Trustees would select any can­didates who were not rccom­mended bv the Search Committee. 
Sal"arles concern tmstees 

Responding to questions, Carney said that there was much concern among the Trustees over bringing Notre Dame's faculty salaries up to "Level One" as determined by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). He said he considered faculty salaries "an immediate problem" and that some of the Trustees had "cal­culated the amount it would take to bring them up to par immed­
their standing in the international 
community and their relations with 
the United States." 
Carter expressed hope that 1978 
will see the successful completion 
of • • difficult and prolonged'' nego­
tiations with the Soviet Union on a 
new strategic arms limitation 
treaty. He called again for Senate 
ratification of the Panama Canal 
treaty and promised to press ahead 
with efforts to promote a Middle 
East peace. . 
Arguing that a peace opportumty in ~h~t re~on . "m~y not co.me agam m our hfetime, <;arter satd, "our ~ole has been difficult and sometimes thankless and con~o­versial, but it has been constmctive and necessary -and it will con­tinue." 
Discussing his energy program, Carter said: 
"We know we have to a~t. We 
know what we must do: mcrease 
energy production, cut down on 
waste, and use more of those fuels 
which are plentiful and more 
permanent.··· . · 
"It soun~s stmple, .but I recog­
nize the difficulties mvolved. I 
know it is not easy for the Congress 
to act. But !he ~act remains tha! on 
energy le.gtslation w~. have failed 
the Amenc~n peop~e. .. 

The Prestdent satd: Not much longer can we t~lerate the s.tale­mate. It undermmes our national Interest both at home and a~road. 1We must succeed, and I beheve we 
will." 
At another point, the President 
said many foreign leaders "have 
emphasized the greatest future 
contribution America can make to 
the world economy would be an 
effective energy conservation pro­
gram here at home." 
Noting that the country's foreign 
oil bill totals more than $120 million 
[oontinued on page 3] 

Dr. Thomas Carney, Trustee and Fellow of the University, spoke on a variety ol topics to the Faculty Senate last night. [Photo by john
Calcutt.] iately." Carney said one source of funds for increased faculty salaries would be the endowed chairs sought by the Campaign for Notre Dame. Funds freed by establishing each of the 40 chairs were ear-marked for faculty salaries, he said. Prof. Irwin Press presented a three-year comparison of median faculty salaries at Notre Dame with median salaries at the Big Ten schools and a group of ten "peer institutions" chosen by former Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell. [see accompanying chart] Press said that "something spec­tacular" was needed to bring Notre Dame's salaries up to par with those paid by institutions "with whom we must compete for the best students and faculty." An­nual raises, he said, are offset by similar raises at other institutions. Furthermore, Press said, if en­dowment funds are used to bring in additional faculty from outside the University, they will not free funds for faculty salary increases. Press asked Carney to urge the Trustees to "apply pressure to the University to fill a proper number of chairs within the University. Otherwise, we have gained noth­ing," he said. Carney replied that he ''wouldn't consider for a moment" applying that kind of pressure, calling such a move "dangerous". He said there are "other ways the money could be gotten." Prof. Paul Kenney sug­gested that Carney could "as~ the questions" that would make the Trustees aware of the problems involved in depending on endowed chairs to free funds for faculty 
salary raises. Favors compulsory retirement Carney also told the Senate that 
he favors compulsory retirement at the age of 65. He bases his views on his exnerience in industry, he 

O'Neil resigns as director of SMC Career Center 
MoDyWouHe Staff Reporter 
Karen O'Neil, St. Mary's direc­tor of the Career ·Development Center (CDC), resigned her posi­tion on Jan. 1, and is now the director of the· career counseling division of Women's Inc., a firm geared to the unique career requirements ofwomen. 
Elizabeth Twitcht:ll, the director of McCandless Hall, has been appointed by SMC Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice to substitute, for O'Neil. She will divide her time between her position as hall direc­tor and her post at the CDC. 
"I'm trying to do the bestl can," commented Twitchell. "I would ask that people be patient with us 
said, '\~here we had the ·same 
problem of insuring turnover, of 
getting young people into top 
jobs." Carney said, "In college, we 
have an intolerable situation with 
the addition of tenure." 
The University trustee said if 
retirement is not compulsory at 65, 
"how can it be justified at 70 or 75 
or any other age?" "If we don't 
have compulsory retirement," he 
added, "then there has to be a 
change in tenure." 
In response to other questions, 
Carney said: 
--both faculty and students suffer 
from ''total ignorance of f 1e prob­
lems of the other." He suggested 
that students, faculty and admin­
istrators meet in seminar groups to 
discuss progress on the report of 
the Committee on University Pri­
orities (COUP). 
--he sees nothing wrong with Notre 
Dame taking "open applications," .regardless of any sex ratio. 
--he is a "great proponent of 
unionization" but would be sorry to 
see the faculty unionize. "It could 
only hurt the relationship between 
the faculty and the University by 
imposing legal limitations ... We 
would eventually be put in the 
position of labor fighting manage­
ment." · 
Senate Chairman Prof. Paul Con­
way said Carney was the first lay 
Trustee ever to address the Senate. 
The Senate convened for a brief 
business meeting after Carney's 
address. It passed without dissent 
two amendments to a proposed 
change in the Academic Manual's 
section on Appointments and Pro­
motions procedures, passed by the 
Senate last year. 
The first amendment incorp­orates a section of the present manual into the proposed change, by including violation of academic freedom among grounds for an appeal of a negative reappointment 
·or promotion decision. 
this semester for it's going to be necessary to cut down the services, due to my limited time. We will be keeping the full series of work­shops, cQunseling, and a full recruit service." 
Twitchell added that she plans to introduce "intake sessions" in dormitories to "make the kids aware of the CDC and how they can take part in it," to start a newsletter, and also to re-organize the career library. 
Twitchell received a Bachelor of Arts degree in comparative litera­ture from the University of Wiscon­sin, and a master's degree in counseling from the University of Virginia. She has been working part-time in the CDC since the fall term. 




The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 65 . Friday, january 20, 1978 

Carney talks to F•aculty Senate about salaries, rCJ~Ie of Provost 
'74-'75  Difference  '75-'76  Difference  '76-'77  Difference  
Big Ten  $17,700  $1400  $19,()()()  $1600  $20.,000  $1400  
'Peer"  $16.900  $600  $18,200  $800  $19,400  $800  
ND  $16,300  $17,400  $18,600  
[Figures taken from AAUP  Bulletin]  


-----~~---­
,_News Briefs ____.......,.. 
1:=:::::==:;::::::::::~=~====::::::::::::::::==== Worid Archbishop begins tour VATICAN CITY -Catholic Archbishop Hi!arion Capudji, convicted by Israel of gun-running and expelled from that country in November, starts a Latin American tour tomorrow, Vatican sources said yesterday. Capudji, living in Rome after his release from Israel, will visit Melchite communities in four countries. 
t===::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:==:== National 
Morals aren't all gonel 
CIDCAGO -On the basis of surveys over the past five years, sociologist William McCready says the much-publicized "collapse of moral standards" of Americans is largely non-existent. McCready, a senior director of the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago, reports in "Overview: A Continuing Survey of Issues Affecting Catholics" that most indicators show a low level of change regarding moral choices and standards. 

Weather 
Light snow continuing today. High in the mid 20s. Mostly cloudy with snow flurries tonight. Lows ranging from 10 to 15. Cloudy with a few snow flurries tomorrow. High near 20. 

~On Campus Today_-----.. 
4 pm swimming, nd vs Bowling Green, at home 
5:15pm mass at the bulla shed, dinner too 
7,9,11 pm 1film, "silent movie", sponsored by student union, eng. 
7:30pm 8 pm Saturday 1:30pm 
7,9,11 pm 7:30pm 
Sunday 4 pm 8 pm 
aud, !1 hockey, nd vs colorado college, at home 
lions club travelogue,  "hawaii",  by  dennis  cooper,  
o'laughlin aud., smc  
smc  basketball,  smc  vs.  ind.  tech.,  angela  athletic  
facility  
film, "silent movie", eng. aud., $1  

hockey, nd vs colorado college, at home 
basketball, nd vs ucla, at home senior recital, vocalist cathy heisler, little theatre WASHINGTON [AP] -The 
Congress that adjourned with 
energy disputes unresolved came 
back to them yesterday but with tax 
cuts and job bills competing for its 
attention. 
And a major item on the Senate 
agenda is the vote on the Panama 
Canal treaty giving control of the 
waterway back to Panama by the 
year 2000. 
As the 95th Congress gathered 
for its second and final session, 
House Speaker Thomas P. "Tip" 
O'Neill told reporters "I am taking 
the liberty" of assigning -first 
priority to legislation for economic 
stabilization and reduction of 
unemployment. That would 
include, he said, a tax cut designed 
to stimulate the economy as well as 
public works and other job-creating 
measures. 
The Senate majority leader, Sen. 
Robert C. Byrd, (D-W.Va.), 
seemed to indicate a somewhat 
different order of importance, with 
agreement on an energy bill "our 
first major priority." But Byrd also 
listed economic measures as 
having high priority. 
O'Neill rejected suggestions that the Senate-House conferees trying to break the impasse on the key issue of natural gas pricing might throw up their hands and quit. 
"We'll keep their feet to the fire. .." he said. "I think there will be a more amiable feeling." 
The Senate conferees are expect­ed to meet next week to see if they can arrive at a unified position to take in the full conference. 
Speaking against a background of conferences with President Carter, O'Neill told reporters he expects to see enacted a tax reduction large enough not only to offset the Social Security tax increases already enacted and the expected energy taxes but beyond that to give the economy a mea~ur­able boost. "Some tax reform" 



Germans produce last 'Beetle' 
EMDEN, WEST GERMANY [AP] The last Volkswagon Beetle Sedan, Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler's legacy that helped West German's beef up their post-war economy, rolled off a German assembly line yesterday. 
Since Daimler Benz made the first 30 prototype beetles designed by Ferdinand Porsche 40 years ago, Volkswagon built 19.2 million Beetles to surpass the previous production record of 15,007, 034 set by Henry Ford's Model T in the late 1920's. 
The Beetle continues to be Jroduccd in Mexico, Brazil, South ~frica and Nigeria. Models sold in Germany from now on will bear a ··made in Mexico" tag. 
The tirst shipload arrived two weeks ago at the same Emden pier from which thousands of German .11adc Beetles left to begin their ~u.::cessful invasion of the U.S. 
West Germans are still making a limited number of Beetle converti­bles in nearby Osnabrock. Besides Rolls Royce's expensive Corniche, they are the only four seater 
-. :onvertibles in production. At age 55, Porsche, who is better known for the expensive sportscar that bears his name, hired six people in 1930 to begin work on his dream, an inexpensive auto that most German families could afford. Porsche developed the unmista­kable outline of the Beetle on the basis of Chrysler's streamlined cars, which had impressed him on a visit to the United States in the early 1930's. 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frldey except durtng ex.m end vec:.etlon periods. Tl)tt Obsttrver 11 publllhecl by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purdlned for no per yeer (S 1o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 4US6. Second c1111 post..• peld, Notre Dame, lndlena, 4US6. 
The Observer It • member of the Anocleted Pren. All repro­duction rights ere re1ervecl. 
He tried unsuccessfully to mass 
produced his design in successive 
ventures with two German motor­
cycle companies. In January 1934 
he wrote Hitler to propose "cons­
truction of a German Volkswagon" 
people's car with state support. 
A friend of Daimler Benz arran­ged a meeting with the Fuerer. Hitler and Porsche, both native Austrians, got on well together, and the Fuerer gave his full support and state financing to the scheme. 
Daimler Benz, which had long been making its Merecedes-Benz cars, was chosen to produce the prototypes. 
Test drivers from tire SS elite guard put the fledgling Beetle through its paces. 
Porsche called the cars he produced as a result of the tests Type 38, the basic Beetle that has been modified more than any other automobile and yet has never lost its characteristic shape. 
Hitler chose open farmland northeast of Brunswick as the site for Votkswagon's own factory. With plans based on American architectural and technical advice, the Fuerer laid the foundation stone May 26, 1938 at what is today Wolfsburg. 
The Nazi party's Strength through Joy welfare organization organized a savings plan to finance the huge undertaking. A German worker was promised his car as soon as he saved 900 marks -$472 dollars at the present rate of exchange, then the price of a medium sized motorcycle. 
World War II put a sudden stop to the scheme. Civilian production plans were stopped immediately, and the car was modified to become the German equivalent of the U.S. Army's jeep. 
When Hitler's Reich crumbled in 1945, the Beetle plant was in ruins. The British military government appointed Heinreich Nordoff, a former Opel truck plant manager, to take over management of Yolks­wagon. 
The people's car was finally available to the people in 1949. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson Features layout: Kathy Mills Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Stacy Weaver, Mark Rust, Mardi Nevin, "HBJK" Early Morning Typist: The Mad Russian, Leigh Tunakan Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Ad layout: John P. O'Connell Photographer: John Calcutt,
l Bill Reifsteck ) 
a 
== 
IVIasses at Saaed Heat Church 
5:15 pm Saturday Vigil  Rev. Rober1 Griffin, C.S.C.  1  
9:30a.m. Sunday  Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m.  Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m.  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  
7:15 Vespers  Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C.  



Congress holds last session 
also will be in the bill, he said. 
The Humphrey-Hawkins bill to commit the government to full employment definitely is part of the economic stimulus package, O'Neill said, "and I think we can pass it." 
Byrd listed among high-priority items consideration of the Panama Canal treaties, a special Senate responsibility, jobs and tax legisla­tion and a measure to curb the rise in hospital costs. Other possibili­ties, he said, are welfare reform and a nuclear arms limitation treaty, if negotiations succeed. 
There actually are two Panama Canal treaties but they are consi­dered indivisible. 
While Byrd observed that "the tasks are many and the time is 
Development Department announces staff additions 
Three additions to the Depart­natwnwide $130 million "Cam­ment of Development staff have paign for Notre Dame" launched been announced by Thomas J. last April. Suddes, director of development. Kerry M. Temple, a 1974 gradu­
Daniel W. O'Brien, for seven ate who later received his master's years a Bache & Company stock­in journalism from Lousiana State broker in South Bend, has joined University, will fill a newly created the staff as a regional director of position of development depart­development with a particular ment writer. For the past year, responsibility in the area of corpo­Temple has been a reporter for the rate giving. O'Brien received a Sheridan (Wyoming) Press. 
B.A. in 1958 and and M.A. in Suddes said the staff additions philosophy in 1964 from the Uni­were related to the five-year cam­versity. paign, which has raised $80.3 
Paul S. Holowczak, former assis­million, 62 percent of the overall tant director of the Notre Dame goal, in eight months. It is the alumni association, has rejoined largest such fund-raising effort in the University in development. A University history and at the time it 1973 graduate, he will assist was announced was the 12th Suddes in the planning of city largest active campaign in Ameri­functions connected with the can higher education. 

Gleason named president of Catholic historical group 
Dr. J. Philip Gleason, professor Notre Dame and the National of history, became president of the Endowment for the Humanities. American Catholic Historical Asso-Gleason is the author of "The dation at the association's 58th Conservative Reformers: German­annual meeting last month in American Catholics and the Social Dallas. He succeeds Professor Orders, and editor of Contempo­John A. Lukacs of Chestnut Hill rary Catholicism In the United College, Philadelphia, who served States. He was a contributing during the last year. author to Academic Freedom and 
A specialist in American intellec-the Catholic University and The tual history, the Catholic Church in Shape of Catholic Higher Educa­America, and the history of immi-tlon. gration, Gleason received his doc-Other new officers ofthe associa­torate at Notre Dame in 1960 and tion include First Vice-President has been a member of the faculty Joseph N. Moody, professor at St. since 1959. He served as depart-John's Seminary and Boston ment chairman seven years and College, and Second Vice-Presi­was the recipient of grants from the dent of Trinity College, Washing­American Philosophical Society, ton, D.C. 

Important Notice: 
The Sunday Mass times at Sacred Heart Church will remain the same this semester: 
9:30am, 10:45 am, and 12:15. The times will not change as had previously been announced. 
NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S THEATRE ANNOUNCES TRYOUTS FOR 
A TOUCH OF THE POET 
by Eugene 0'Neill Thurs. Jan 19th 7 :30 -0' Laughlin Callbacks, Fri. Jan 20th 7:30 Uttle Theatre 

OPEN -TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
short," O'Neill said he is "very, very hopeful" that Congress will enact the whole pending list of major items and adjourn by Oct. 1, well before the November elec­tions. 
But the Senate Republican leader, Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee, predicted "a contro­versial and yet issue-oriented session." 
"There will be a number of matters that will create controversy and strong division in the Senate on both sides of the aisle," Baker told reporters. 
The House worked only on minor legislation yesterday but the Senate began debate on a sweeping rewriting of the federal criminal code. 
Friday, january 20, 1978 the observer 



SU book exchange starts well 

h·y Kevin M. Walsh Senior Staff Reporter 
Describing the first day of the Student U niJn Book Exchange program as "quite successful," Book Exchange Director Tom Hamel stated that over $3,100 was spent for used texts submitted for sale by over 600 students. 
According to Hamel, "The sales went very well today. We were very pleased with the first day's turnout." The books, which are being sold in the basement of Keenan Hall, are available for up to half of their original sale price. 
For the second consecutive semester, all profits from the exchange will benefit Sister Marl­eta's Day School, the function of which is to teach, clothe, and feed those youths who are not able to fit into South Bend's re!!ular school system. The Student Union's policy is different from its previous practice of sharing the profits of the exchange with the day school. 
Hamel noted that the final profit is impossible to determine, for the Union's contribution to the day school depends on the amount of money which is not claimed by those who were selling books and the donations made by students at the end of the exchange. 
Students who have books for sale Students peruse the selection of this semester's Studtmt Union can claim their money or unsoldBook Exchange hoping to find an alternative to the higher Bookstore prices. [Photo by john Calcutt] 


Carter gives address to nation 
[coninued from page 1] a day, he said, "This slows our economic growth, lowers the value of the dollar overseas, and aggra­vates unemployment and inflation at home." 
Without elaboration, Carter re­peated a statement that "we will not hesitate to take the actions needed to protect the integrity of the dollar." 
In dealing with domestic issues, the President said, there must be "a partnership between those who lead and those who elect.'' He said Americans must face hard de­cisions and support "the common good over special interest.' 1 
While asserting that government "cam1ot be the managers of every­thing and everybody," the Presi­dent said crisis management should give way to progress in partnership to achieve national goals." 
Taking a generally sanguine view of the economy, Carter cited a decline in inflation and unemploy­ment last year and declared, "We reached our major e:conomic goals for 1977." 
But he said more must be done because "our trade deficit is too large, inflation is still too high, and 
Welcome Home the Irish with a celebration _beginning right after the game 
too many Americans still do not have a job." 
Carter said he is proposing ''a new program to encourage busi­nesses to hire young and disad­vantaged Americans" who need skills and opportunity. 
In addition, he said he is asking for a "substantial increase in funds in public jobs for our young people" and a doubling of public service employment programs. 
The President gave no figures for these activities, nor did he say much about his forthcoming federal 
[continued on page 4] 


you b<)n't know what 
you' R€ ffiiSSIO(j BUT ~~~yo1J can ftnO out 
JOIN The Observer layout staff. 
No experience necessary. Come up 
to our office (4th floor Lafortune) any night, Sunday through Thursday, after 10 p.m.
*The Observer 





aaaaaEiaaaaa 
·~ ·.. . . .·......... ":" .. ... .. ... ... ; .... ""' .. .. . .. . ... .... -.................. -....... ··-......... ----.. .. •, 

books by contacting Hamel within merly held in LaFortune but was three days ofthe exchange's close. moved to Keenan this semester to After that, all money and books will reduce incidents of vandalism, will be kept by the Student Union be open today and Saturday from treasurer for one week, after which 1-S p.m. Books from most all 
time all remaining books will be disciplines are available. 
sold to Pandora's Book Store. All Students can pick up money or money will then be turned over to unsold books from Monday through the day school. Wednesday between 6:30p.m. and 9 p.m. in the Student Government 
The exchange, which was for-Offices. 
Free University registration scheduled for next week 
welcome.

by Jim Blaha 
There are 46 courses to choose from and course description book­Registration for this semester's lets will be mailed to all studentsFree University will be held on Jan. 

next week. Off-campus students30 and 31 from 8:30a.m. until 4:30 can pick up their booklets in thep.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

There

The courses are filled on a first­LaFortune lounge. is no 
registration fee, but some coursescome-first serve basis and all have a fee for materials. 

students, faculty, Universityemplo­Most of the more popular Free
yees and South Bend residents are University courses will be held again this semester. "Mixology", "Auto Mechanics", "Beer Making", "Insurance" and "Counseling" courses are a few of the returning favorites. 

Some new courses are "Fris­bee", taught be a finalist in the Missouri state tournament, "Newspaper Production", taught by Marti Hogan, editor of The Observer, "Skiing", "Pocket Bil­liards", and "Advanced Gambl­ing." Unfortunately, the popular photography course will not be held this semester, because a dark room in no longer available. 
Dan McCormick who has worked hard to organize these courses, believes that some valuable, inter­esting courses are offered, and he DAN McCORMICK 
hopes everyone takes advantage of the Free University. 


Educators to get grants 

Three American educators will receive travel grants for research during 1978 from the recently established Center for the Study of American Catholicism at Notre Dame. 
The recipients are: Patrick W. Carey, of Gustavus Adolphus who will use his for 
BAR 
i~~~~~s:~l~~~f ~~:s~~~. at the council headquarters, located at 815 N. Michigan, and will terminate at St. Patrick's Church, at Taylor and Jefferson, where a the only place to go.n'?n-denominational prayer service 
wtll be held. 


OPEN: MON-·THURS 9AM-11 PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER&, SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
. 

• • • ' ..... t ....... ·.••.~ ... (., .. & ....... ~ 4 ........... 4 ......... f -··· ... ~. 
. -.. -. • .......... --.·---··-......... .. •-.it'll -.... ,.............·.·· ...-. .......... "' .·. 
the observer 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 



Mideast talks still delayed 
JERUSALEM [API Prime Minister Menahem Begin lashed out at Egypt yesterday for "chutzpah" ­brazenness -in its peace demands, and he rejected for the moment Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's proposal tu resume military negoti­ations in Cairo this weekend. 
Israel stands ready to reopen peace talks, Begin said, but the next move is "up to Egypt." 
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance met with Begin and is to fly to Cairo today to talk with Begin in an effort to revive th( Jerusalem negotia­tions, which were suspended ab­ruptly by the Egyptian leader Wednesday. 
After meeting with Vance ,Begin told reporters Israel was declining Egypt's invitation for Defense Minister Ezer Weizman to return to Cairo Saturday for renewed talks on military aspects of peace. 
He said the Israel cabinet would 
await Vance's report on his Cairo 
visit and Sadat's scheduled speech tomorrow to the Egyptian parliment before deciding Sunday on the military talks. He also said official Israeli delegations do not travel on the Jewish Sabbath (tomorrow). 
The Cairo talks, considered less 
Pollard named to join Council 
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of Lobund Laboratory and chairman and professor of microbiology, has been named a member of the Scientific Advisory Council of the National Institute of Preventive Gynecology and Human Reproduc­tion, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
He recently examined virus research programs at medical cen­ters in several Brazilian cities at the invitation of Brazil's National Academy of Science. 
Cancers of the breast, colon and prostrate are being studied at Lobund, the University's institute for germfree animal research which Pollard has directed since 1961. He is a member of the U.S. Committee on Colon Cancer and chairman of the National Cancer Institute Committee on Imunotherapy. 
important than the Jerusalem con­ference, had focused on Israeli withdrawl from the Sinai Peninsu­la. 
Begin told a joint news confer­ence after the meetimg with Vance that the Americans • 'would try to convince President Sadat that the negotiations.....should be renewed 
....we  wish  him  Godspeed  and  
good success.''  
U.S.  officials said  Vance  was  

urging both Begin and Sadat to end their war of words and get down to harder negotiating. The secretary himself declined to comment on this, but Begin said that if Vance's mission is successful, "we shall then be prepared to refrain from public statements, of course on the basis of reciprocity.'' 
The Prime Minister, speaking to a group of French Jews earlier in the day said it was "inconceivable" that the United States would pres­sure him into making concessions to Egypt. 
In Cairo, meanwhile, Sadat heard a report from Foreign Minis­ter Mohammed Kamel, the chief negotiator he had summoned home from Jerusalem after only two days of what were supposed have been comprehensive talks on the politi­cal aspects of a peace settlement. 
Sadat, considering his next move in the fast developing situation, rescheduled from tomorrow morn­ing to tomorrow evening the emer­gency session of the Egyptian parliment at which he is to deliver an address. 
In his speech to the French group, assembled in the Israeli parliment building, Begin said that if Egypt decides to reopen to Jerusalem talks "the government of Israel will be prepared to do so as well." 
"We hope the talks will be resumed. It is up to Egypt, " he said. 
The Egyptians have said Begin's tough public pronouncements while the talks were under­way were one one reason for Sadat's abrupt suspension of the negotiations. The Israeli's speech yesterday offered no apology for his previous remarks, however. He reaffirmed Israel's policy that 

~ 
MEN'S 

HAIR 
STYLING By Jft't. .L!fl'l'ly 
We are pleased to announce Mr. larry has JOined the staff of The Knights. Expertly trained in men's hair styling. he invites all friends & customers to 
.visolhim. 
$ 

100 
OFF 
ANY SERVICE (WITH THIS AD) WITH MR. LARRY ONLY 


TbK~Id'6 
54533 Terrace lane 

272-8471 or 
Lower level Tues. & Wed. 

277-1691 
Thurs. & Fri. 
Sat. 


it would not agree to a Palestinian state on territory it now occupies, would not leave its Sinai settle­ments undefended and would nev­er redivide Jerusalem. 
He said Kamel's call for Israel to return to East Jerusalem to the Arabs was "preposterous" and other Egyptian demands showed "chutzpah." 
He denounced the Palestinian Liberation Organization as a "Nazi­like organization." In one of his more provocative statements in a dinner toast Wednesday, Begin had compared the Arabs' demands for Palestinian self determinization with Nazi land grabbing in tlie 1930's. 




Reception set to honor artist 
There will be a reception for Moira Marti Geoffrion on Sunday from 2 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Art Gallery. Geoffrion is the artist featured in a current exhibition of sculpture at the gallery. Refresh­ments will be served. The public is cordially invited to attend. 


Carter gives address to nation 
part to put this thing together."
[continued from page 3) He said Carter was wise to try andbudget except to describe it as first resolve legislation on natural"lean and tight." 

gas pricing.
After adjusting for inflation, he The House Republican leader said, the new budget will show an Rep. John J. Rhodes of Arizona increase of less than 2 percent from also saw Carter, who told him the current levels, "the smallest in­administration's 1978 program will crease in the federal budget in four be more "congenial" to Republi­

years." 

cans than those submitted last 
Before addressing Congress, 

year.
Carter met at the White House with Rhodes spoke favorably aboutseveral top congressional leaders to Carter's forthcoming tax cut planspell out his priorities for the but said he'd prefer a COP alterna­coming session. 

tive that would cut taxes 10 percent 
Sen. Russell Long (D-La.), a key a year for the next three years. figure in the congressional battle In the nearly two weeks since over the president's energy blue­Carter returned from an 18,000­print, which was submitted nine mile world tour, he has conferred months ago, was one of Carter's with dozens of Congress members, visitors yesterday. individually or in groups, and has 
Long later told reporters that seen spokesmen for business, labor, differences between Senate and .blacks and consumers. House energy bills are so great "it The State of the Union address will take some genius on ~omeone's preceded by just a day the first anniversary of Carter's inaugura­tion. Appropriately, Carter invited several hundred supporters from Iowa to White House reception so they could view his speech on television before being greeted by the president and wife Rosalynn. It was a victory in Iowa's Decmocratic precinct caucuses two years ago that launched Carter on his road to the presidency. 
Ombudsman resumes service 
The Ombudsman will begin its phone service on Monday at 10 
a.m. For answers to your questions or your complaints, call 0-B-U-D (.6283) Monday through Thursday 10 a.m. to 12 midnight, Friday, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday, 1 p.m. to midnight. 

Who are you, telling us how to run our business? 
It takes a lot of confidence to come fresh out of school and beg1n telling us how to do things. 
On the other hand, it takes an un­usual company to provide the kind of environment where that can happen. but that is exactly the environment you"ll find at Scott Paper. 
We constantly search for people who have the ability to respond to chal­lenge and think for themselves. those with the initiative and desire to seek al­ternatives, the skill and courage to con­vince others that there are better ways and who aren"t afraid to express their ideas. ­
At Scott. we admire an aggressive stance because we are an aggressive company. You can make your own op­portunities with us ... and we"ll prove it. 
Contact your placement office for information. 


SCOTf 
an equal opportunity employer. m/f 
Friday, january 20, 1978 
the observer 
5 

Letters to a Lonely God ·• 



Going Not Gentle 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
For three days now, I have given up smoking. For three days, I have been munching away at peppermints while the nicotine stains fade from my fingers, and my mouth and throat coat over with the taste of cheap candy. My lungs feels as though they were rotting with sweetness, and already I am anticipating death from a diabetic coma. Giving up smoking keeps you very busy. You try to trick yourself 
into  not  noticing  what you · are  doing:  
eating lunches,  drinking coffee,  moving  
heavy  furniture.  In  the  end,  nothing  

distracts you from a sense of sadness as though a favorite friend had just moved out of town. You remember all the poetic things you ever loved about smoking: a companion close to you in all the sad or happy hours, so faithful and reliable that you imagine the nearness of nicotine is what an atheist must have instead of the nearness of God that the saints depend upon. 
There once was a man named Joe whom I used to see in the old Muffinberger restaurant at Broadway and Forty-ninth street in New York. If smoking were a sacrament, Joe would surely be numbered among the saints of the tobacco industry. 
Joe had one of those ailments of the throat called a maligna,ncy. The doctors operated on him, and afterwards said: "Joe, stop smoking, and you've got a chance to live." But Joe remained faithful to his Lady Nicotine. Night after night, you would see him in the Muffinberger, smoking Viceroys end upon end. His friends argued with him, his familly pleaded with him, his doctors said: "You are killing yourself." In the end, they say, when the priest came to give him the final sacraments, Joe refused the consolations of religion until he and the priest had smoked a last cigarette. 
There is a fraternity amot!g folks who smoke as though Luckies were the tie that binds. Just a week ago, in New York, as I stood smoking in front of the rectory, two street characters came up, wordlessly embraced me, and then, with motions, asked for the favor of cigarettes. Without exchanging a word, the three of us stayed there, blowing smoke in each other's faces, until my ride came. When I left them, they shook hands, and acted as though they hated to see me go. The clerical collar could not have built the bridge between 
us those cigarettes did. On summer nights, in Washington Square Park, I have shared words. with a thousand strangers 

simply because I was willing to give them 
cigarettes. . 
"Big deal," you say, "you could have 
gotten even quicker results with a bottle.'' 
Undoubtedly true, but if I tried being a 
street minister who drank, I could end up 
as a wino cadging butts myself. For a 
street minister, cigarettes cunningly cir­
culated can be more helpful than Bible 
tracts. 

When you are a smoker who is joined by 
another smoker -no matter where -the 
moment that both of you light up, you are 
suddenly joined together as though in a 
delicious conspiracy. It is as if you were 
saying: look at what we are doing. It's 
crazy and dirty, but it's very comfortable. 
We're probably killing ourselves with 
noxious fumes, and the non-smokers 
certainly hate us. But, oh, the delight of it 
-it is the place where our communion can 
b«;gin. 

For twenty-eight years now, I have loved 
smoking, deliberately cultivating the habit as a seminarian just out of the novitiate. ·But early one morning, you wake up and find you are having difficulty taking a breath. "It's the damn cigarettes," you say. "It's the damn cigarettes," says the doctor. You could be Joe at the 
Irish Mauericks in Longhorn Country 
If I could call a completely burned-out, 
blurry-eyed , staggerstumped, pink ele­phantitis attack of football mania a trip to the Cotton Bowl, would you still let your mother swim across the Rio Grande and be arrested as an illegal alien? Excuse me, friends--that's not a fair question to ask. What I meant to say was you should have been there. But I'm sure you all had a good time anyway, wherever you were. 
Obviously, it would be impossible to adequately describe a trip to Dallas. Or any trip, for that matter, even if you knew what you were on. Therefore, I propose to give you all I have in mind. Bits and snatches, a few recollections of a fabulous, fantastic, f---ed up, far-fetched, fun-filled journey to that fair Oz of the South, the cowtO}Vn they call Dallas. 
So what did Dallas itself have to offer, besides Coors beer, the Dallas Cowgirls, ten-gallon hats, rednecks with zits, and 30 
million wetbacks? Cattle!! Really nice cattle!! Firm-bodied, juicy, tender -­simply gorgeous, almost erotic if you happen to get into steaks. Not exactly reminiscent of Chuck Wagon, Dinner 
Rounds, Alpo, and other beefy-delicious dog foods I have tried, there were fine specimens of bovine delight to be had most anywhere in the city for less than an arm and a leg. It is truly amazing, that strangely Texan ability to transform smelly, dusty, bowlegged creatures, which leave obnoxious messes every place they strut, into such a basic culinary ecstacy as a steak. 
Especially noteworthy among the Dallas "eats" establishments were places like "The Shed," where two friends and I manged to turn several cattle into pigs, namely ourselves. With an "All You Can Eat for $6.95" meal plan, the three of us polished off ten great, thick, sizzling steaks, juicy-hot right off the grill. An excellent repast! 
0 course, there were some bad meals also. One lunch I distincly remember with distaste was at the "Copper Cow", right across· from the Dallas Hilton, which was where the N.D. Club of Dallas had set up shop. A group of us had been drinking at the Hilton when we decided to alleviate some severe attacks of the munchies. So we walked across the street to this grungy place. After about ten minutes of waiting, the waitress finally arrived carrying our water glasses together by the rims, with her fingers in the water. "Eh, my hands are clean. I hope you don't mind," she drawled as we looked at her with disgust. Just after she left I also noticed the piece of meat wrapping paper stuck to the inside of my glass. What a fine place to eat! The ketchup bottle even had its own handy­dandy hair depository, as did my sandwich. I opened up the bottle to pour some ketchup on my chunky grease fries, and a couple of hairs popped out. Must be some strange Texas custom, to pluck your hair at dinner and stuff it in the ketchup bottles. Ah,weU! 
Now that everyone understands where my top priorities lie --good food --allow me to continue on my second favorite interest, an interest which was likewise generally well-accomodated in Dallas. Drinking! Yes, the booze flowed freely! Most everyone I knew down there was half­crocked three-quarters of the time. People were constantly stewing their brains, pickling their livers, and otherwise having fun. I took my brains home in a doggie bag every night. 
Funny thing about downtown Dallas, though. Almost none of the bars were open on New Ye~~r's Eve. Having arrived late that afternoon, my buddies and Idecidedto catch the evening action in the downtown district. We walked around for a couple of hours and saw several bars, but only one of them was open. Some of the locals said this was normal, that downtown Dallas closed down every weekend night. The bar we did find open was certainly no dream come true; rather, it was a sleazy, one-roomed, smoke-filled corner bar, with drunks passed out or bleary-eyed in the wall booths and burly redneck customers seated at the bar, replete with ten-gallon hats and nasty glares for "those young punks from N.D.!!" Needless to say, we didn't stay long. We were looking for 
a social buzz, not a border skirmish. 
So, we spent most of New Year's Eve at our hotel, the Downtown Ramada Inn/Con­vention C•!nter, partying with friends and whooping it up in the high-class, top-floor lounge called "Shirley's." "Shirley's" featured a local jazz/blues band playing to a large group of rather quiet Texan party poopers and a · much rowdier and drunker N.D. minority. With a few Manhattans and Black Russians under my belt, I starte rapping a bit with the band during one of their breaks and asked th~ 

to play the "N.D. Fight Song." Of course, I had to hum it for them. "Hey, yeah, man, yeah, wow, I think I got it, man. We can do a bluesy number on that one, yeah!" slurred one of the players. So all of the N.D. squad, about 15 of us, put to 
shame about a hundred Texan fans with our song, thoug~ they tried a weak, very sad comeback with "The Eyes of Texas." "Oh, we're sorry! We thought that was 'I've Been Working on the Railroad,"' which is what we sang along with, very off-key and laughing at them. 
On subsequent nights we found a lot more action in some good bars and discos on the northwest fringe of the city. At "The Beggar" on Sunday night I decided to socialize with the natives. "Excuse me, sir, are you from the University of Texas?" 
"G.d, g.d., you're g.d. m.f. right I am! 
M.f. good team we got --we're gonna whoop your m.f. asses good tomorrow, g. d. right we are!" Yeah, and your mother knits dirty socks for her customers. A pretty good and down-to-earth group of people to party with, though they did have a limited vocabulary. But I guess I did too by the end of the night. Monday night: "Hey, where did all the Texans go?" 

{Photo by john ~lcutt] 
Muffinburger, faithful to the last draw. You could, but you don't want to be. Joe died at thirty-eight, and I think, from watching him, he died of malnutrition, because he couldn't get the food down. "If a man is not faithful to his stomach," says Samuel Johnson, "he is not apt to be faithful to much else." Or, not much else is apt to be faithful to him. 
So you travel away from tobacco country. 
Even though it means not being a Marlboro man, you munch the peppermint candies, risking death from being over­sweetened. But you don't do it without taking many a backward glance. You don't do it without feeling sorry for yourself, as you would when a favorite friend who owes you money has just moved out of town. 
I regret to say that since I began writing this article, it has been necessary for me to smoke a half a pack of Pall Mall Famous Cigarettes ("Whereve1· particular people congregate"). After twenty-eight years of knowing the comforter, cold turkey can turn the brain to mush. 
But tomorrow morning -when I can't breathe -remembering Joe, I will say, "It's the damn cigarettes." then I'll try again, going not gentle into that dark night. 
by Reed King 

I reckon I just plumb forgot about the game here. Well, I guess there's not much I can say about it that you don't already know. However, there were a few humorous sidelights to the game. For instance, Texas had a really dumb-looking bull as a mascot, which just stood, unmoving, behing the endzone. It looked drugged, because of its glassy stare and extreme lethargy. This ugly slab took a tremendous dump right on the field during the second quarter. Maybe it · ·as the smell that roused the Longhorns to their only touchdown at the end of the half --I don'tknow --but the hull's ill-timed action did accurately represent the Longhorn's play. 
Near the end of the game, Jimmy the Greek and Brent Mussburger camewalking 
around the field towards the N.D. sidelines. Jimmy Boy, who I believe went one of four for the day in picking the bowl games, was heckled unmercifully by the gleeful N.D. fans. He just raised his hand to the crowd, halfheartedly acknowledging the jeers. 
By the beginning of the fourth quarter, Texas fans, clad in their sickly orange and white, were already streaming from the stands, showing their steadfast loyalty and good sportsmanship. The N.D. fans greeted this poor display with several stadium-rocking renditions of "Good-Bye, Texas.'' . A great ending for a great game. 
''And a great rejoicing arose among the people, and the Lord said --'Let Notre Dame be Number One' --and it was done! And the people celebrated and danced and got completely wasted, and it was good." 
The next afternoon, very tired but happy and probably still a little drunk, my friends and I headed back home to Little Rock, Arkansas. We had the radio on, listening for news on N.D.'s ranking in the polls. Just outside Texarkana we finally heard what we wanted to hear, and everybody went berserk. We started honking and waving "Number One" at all the cars we saw, especially the many happy N.D. fans that went by, and they honked and waved back. 
Then we all had a good laugh over a sports show we picked up on the radio, broadcast from New Orleans. It was one of those shows where listeners call in and express their views about sports, just to hear themselves on the radio. Now I have nothing against Cajuns, but we had heard just that morning on a TV trivia game show that Louisiana had the highest illiteracy rate in the country. And I believe it, listening to those people talk. 
"Ah know nothin' 'bout football, but ah been a Bear Bryant fan foh as long as ah can remember, and ah thunk Alabamy shoulda been number one, "becuz ah thunk it's just disgraceful the way Notruh Damn ran up tl e score that way, and so forth like that... " . 
Well, that weekend is just a memory now, but a very fine one it is. All I can say is, "A good time was had by all, and to all a goOd _night?'. 


.

. . 
• ..... fll ...... ' •• -*' ..... _.., •• • .. ... .. .. .. •• .. .. .. • .,. • • .. .. • .. •• 'P ... '. .. ... • .. • --• -~ ••
6 ••••• ·······~········~·­
( ' 

------~--~~---------------~--~----------~-----­
Friday, january 20, 1978 the observer 
7 

Final quarter of '77 shows decline of GNP 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The nation's economy grew at its slowest rate of the year in the fourth quarter, the government reported yesterday, but Commerce Department offici­als ·termed the full year's pace strong and likely to continue so. 
Gross National Product (GNP) expansion of 4.2 percent in the final quarter brought the year's average down to 4.9 percent, or slightly below the Administartion's target of 5.1 percent. 
Economic growth of at least four percent is considered necessary to keep unemployement from getting worse. Anything above that is considered likely to lead to a drop in the joblessness. 
Nevertheless, the decline in the rate of expansion, if continued, portends a situation the Carter administration believes necessi­
tates a tax cut in order to avert a downturn late in this year or in 1979. 
The GNP report wa~ said by Commerce Department officials to indicate a still healthy economy, especially in view of a final quarter decline in unemployment to 6.4 percent and a 6.8 percent rise in final sales. 
The chief reason for the expan­sion slowdown, they said, was the selling of accumulated inventories, or goods wharehoused in anticipa­tion of future sales. 
Commerce Secretary Juanita Kreps said the inventory decline restored balance to supplies, and that the need to Teplenish, them now "paves the way for continued satisfactory growth." 
Courtenay Slater, Commerce Department chief economist, said the results suggest ··we can look for healthy growth," partly be­cause of several factors seldom emphasized before. 
Among these, she said, were widespread income tax refunds because of overwithholding in 1977, 
cuts in taxes by state and local governments, and the peaking of the public works programs. 
The fourth quarter expansion rate nevertheless continued a steady year-long decline from 7.5 percent in the January-March period. The second quarter grew by 6.2 percent, and the third by 5.1. 
Total growth of the nation's GNP, which measures the value of goods and services produced, rose in 1977 to $1,890.4 billion, and this marks an increase of 183.9 billion over 1976. 
ND accepts rese•arch awards 
Notre Dame has accepted $273,486 in awards for the month of November and $148,834 in awards for the month of December to support individual faculty research projects and innovative educational and service programs, according to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice presi­dent for advanced studies. During 1977, the University accepted a 
total of $7,546,282.  
Awards  in  November  for  
research  totaled  $24 7, 943  and  
included:  

--$90,502 from the National Insti­tutes of Health (NIH) for character­ization of nutritionally defined gno­tobiote by Dr. Bernard S. J. W ostmann, professor of microbio­logy, Dr. Julian R. Pleasants, associate professor of microbio­logy, and Dr. David C. Madsen, assistant faculty fellow in microbio­logy. 
--$83,906 from the National Bureau of Standards for studies of fire and smoke spread by Dr. K. T. Yang, chairman and professor of aerospace and mechanical engi­neering, and Dr. John R. Lloyd, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
--$73,535 from NIH for studies of blood coagulation by Dr. Francis J. Castellino, professor of chemistry. 
Awards in November for educa­tional programs totaled $24,000 and included: 
--$19,000 from the Lilly Endow­ment, Inc., for a Law School street law program directed by Dr. Charles F. Crutchfield, associate professor of law. 
--$5,000 from the Corning Glass Works Foundation for programs to increase the number of women and by Dr. Jerry J. Marley, associate professor of civil engit!teering. 
Notre Dame also has received 
$1,543 from Catholic dioceses for a 
needs assessment program 
directed by Fr. Vin1:ent Dwyer, 
director of the Center for Human 
Development. 
A wards for resea.rch totaled $130,596 in Dece:mber and included: 
--$94,596 from the National Insti­tutes of Health for :'itudy of the intermediary metabolism of parasi­tic worms by Dr. Howard J. Saz, professor of biology. 
--$16,000 from the National Aeronautics and Spac•~ Administra­tion for study of the mechanism of coil damage by Dr. Garabet J. Gabriel, associate professor of electrical engineering. 
--$10,000 from the F. Joseph Lamb Co. for development of a computer simulatiOJil model to evaluate transfer machine and material handling operations by Dr. William E. BHes, associate professor of aerospace and mecha­nical engineering. 
--$8,000 from the Rome Air Development CeiJtter-Syracuse University for study of the low­frequency electrical properties of advanced composite materials by Dr. WalterJ. Gajda, Jr., associated professor of electrical engineering. 
--$2,000 from the Welding Research Council for study of hydrogen uptake in austenitic stainless steels by Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore, chairman and professor of metallurgical engineering and materials science. 
The University also received $7,500 from the NALCO Founda­

The figures reported yesterday take into account an inflation rate of 6 percent, up from 5. 6 percent in 1977. The GNP inflation measure­ment is for all economic goods, rather thanJor consumer items only. 
While the rate of growth slowed and inflation rose, there were other bright aspects to the fourth quarter report. 
Business investment, mainly for residential construction, gained $8 billion, or $2.9 billion more than in the third quarter. And the sales growth of. 6.8 percent compared with 4.4 in the third quarter, brought the year's gain to 4.7 percent, or 0.2 percent higher than in 1976. 
In addition, other favorable re­ports have included industrial pro­duction, up 5.6 percent for 1977, a rise in persmial income to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of nearly $1.62 trillion, and a rise in industrial production of 5.6 percent for the year. 

TO THE 

Chemistry prof D D D r-AADS 
chosen as fellow 
Dr. Francis J. Castellino, profes­sor of ch~mistry, has been elected fellow of the New York Academy of Sciences.: 
The Academy has some 28,000 members in 80 countries, of whom only about six and one-half percent are elected fellows for having attained outstanding recognition for scientific achievement or for the promotion of science. 
A biochemist who joined the University faculty in 1970, Castel­lino has been investigating the mechanisms by which the human body forms and dissolves blood clots. He has established the existence and significance of two major forms of plasminogen, a precursor of the blood clot-dissolv­ing enzyme plasmin. 
Two other Notre Dame faculty members also are fellows of the academy: Dr. James J. Carberry, professor of chemical engineering, and Dr. Anthony M. Trozzolo, 
Huisking Professor of Chemistry. minorities in eneineering directed tion for research equipment in 
WilHam -ndom in ThUrber Tuesday January 24 
8pm 

Washington Hal 
nolle dame 





one dollar

ST\DENT lNON 

NOTICES 
Accurate, Fast Typing,. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours 8 am to 6 pm 
Dissertations, manuscripts, paper typed. IBM selection fl. Linda's Letters. 287­4971. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND All loans from fast semester are now due. 11:15-12:15 M-F. 
"TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS -Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background__ Calf 
(301) 654-3770, or send 2 complete resumes and 2 pictures to: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut A­venue, Suite 1011 Chevy Chase, MD 20015." 
Need Quality Typing? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM correct­ing Sefectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Calf 232-0898 "When you want the Best". Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
Sat. Rec. is back! Saturday Recreation happens every Saturday morning 9a.m. ­
11:30 a.m. at Logan Center, one block south of the football stadium. We're eager to get started and the first Sat. Rec. of 1978 will be this Sat. January 21, 9 
a.m. tiff 11:30a.m. So come and help the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retarded start the new year off right this Saturday morning. Any comments or questions calf Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel 287-7509. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: In front of Badin hall, student Basketball Ticket. Must identify. Calf 6991. 
Leist: Set of keys by ACC Ice Rink. Honda key. Please calf 277-{)222, 234-8279 or turn in to rink pro shop for Thelma. 
WANTED Need tickets for UCLA calf Jim 8708. 
Need 1or 2 UCLA tlx. Student or GA $$ Jim 287-5215 
Needed: Apartment mate, own bedroom, one and a half miles from campus. Mike 272-4781. 
Wanted: GA or student B-Baff tix for UCLA. Call Chuck 277~1874. 
Need roommate to share ~rtment at Crestwood second semester ( miles from campus) Calf Vince at 288-1259 between 
11 :00 and midnight. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale. BIC 960 Turntable 8 mos. old, stiff under warranty, good price Calf Bob ati!I.SI2, after 6:00. Run until 1-27. 
~ 
FULL COLOR COTION BOWL PIC, TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
FOR SALE: BIC 981 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must self .call 3058. 
Buy used paperbacks at PANDORA,S Books. 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 Open 11-6 every day. Special three day order service. acct 371; am st:353, 450, 458, 471, 473, 475, 476; theo: 101/200, 156, 180, 232, 247, 301' 326, 341' 352, 356, 412, 434, 450, 505, 550; e~: 109, 180, 186, 303, 307, 310, 311, 3 ' 326, 330, 354B, 369, 376, 377, 382, 385, 386, 390A, 3908, 392B, 414, 420, 425, 486, 674, 507, 508B, 556, 654B; econ:180, 227, 421, 416; psych:180, 211, 341; soc:109, 122, 332; phil: 101, 180, 201, 221, 245, 275, 276, 302, 316, 345, 351' 405, 414; g.p:180, 191,242,244,281,340,346,382, 446, 462, 482; md fang: 112, 180, 190, 304, 422, 455, russ civ; govt: 180, 340, 342, 404, 415, 451, 473, 482, 483; hist: 109, 112, 114, 116, 180, 324, 345, 351' 406, 426, 454, 460, 478, 634; 
PERSONALS 
Sandy, Confuscious say: He who flirts In chun:h sits in his own pew. DfffonHaff pP.S; Happy Birthday. 
Latin tutor daperately needed 2nd semester freshman Latin. Will meet your price. Call 287-9104 
Tom Felfar, 
Happy Belated Birthday. Yours Always?? Sammy Sfammy 
Gold Plymouth Vofare -Pennsylvania 65780Z: 
Sorry you had such a hard time getting past us on the toll road! Your driving skill rs only equalled by ours!! 
The Orange Ohio Camaro 
Need two tickets for UCLA game. Calf Joe at 8336. 
Typing acknowledgements for thursday to Leigh, Lisa, and Karen. Thanks. 
Celebrate after the pme It The House party at 1014 St. Louis tonight. 
C.J. Sequin is short!!! 
Sincerely Randy Newman 
Looking for lludent to Shari I H~ VIllage Apt for $90. per 111011111. C Z72-6517. 





Cagers edge Villanova, await UCLA 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
All the cliches apply. 
"It was a tight one...anyone's game...yep. closer than a gnat's eyelash." 
Whatever the case, last night's 70-69 squeaker (and I do mean squeaker) over Villanova was frightening. Oh, it wasn't that the Irish played poorly, it was just that the Wildcats played so well, and while that might have shocked some of th 11,345 fans who showed up expecting to see the Irish "warm up" for UCLA, Digger Phelps wasn't the least bit sur­prised. 

Paul 
Stevenson:==============:::===================================================================::================================================================================================================= 


The Irish Eye 
Remember this past fall when the September 5 issue of Sports Dlustrated predicted the Fighting Irish would be the top collegiate football team of 1977. Do you also recall when that dream looked to be a nightmare after a game in Jackson, Mississippi. Well, everything turned out well. With some loyal backing in Dallas, the Irish gridders demolished the Texas Longhorns and received the news of their reward the following evening. 
Maybe history has a way of repeating itself. The Fighting Irish basketball team was selected as being one of the best hardcourt squads in the land during the preseason. In fact, the Irish demonstrated why they deserved that attention in their first five games, totally dominating every opponent they faced. In their sixth contest, Notre Dame defeated UCLA, 69-66, for the second consecutive year in Pauley Pavilion. At that point, many felt that even if the football team did not claim the National Title, the Notre Dame cagers would certainly be in the running. 
But then. December 14 arrived and the Irish basketball team suffered their first loss of the season in Bloomington to a fired-up Hoosier squad. Notre Dame wasable to defeat St. Joseph's nine days later, but the next two battles were going to be rough. 
On New Year's eve, the Irish were ready to face the number-one team in the country, the University of Kentucky. But, Notre Dame tasted defeat number two, this time by five points. 
From Louisville, the Irish travelled to San Francisco, But, the contest with the Dons did not take place for ten days. When time had expired in that confrontation, the Irish had lost again, 79-70. 
Four days later, Notre Dame was competing in the Rochester War Memorial against St. Bonaventure. Although the cagers had faltered in three of their last four games, this contest was to be their's. Even though the victory was by a mere point, the win is what counts, l!specially when operating without starting guard, Duck Williams. 
Finally, after a long and tiring road trip, the Irish resumed their home schedule against Manhattan on January 17. Notre Dame started off slugishly, but in the end they began to control the game and started to feel at home in an arena they hadn't seen for a long while. 
Last night, the Irish were trying to avenge a 64-62 loss to the Villanova Wildcats in the 1976-77 season. Notre Dame succeeded in their task, but with a great

-
deal of difficulty. To a suprised capacity crowd in the ACC, the Irish edged the Wildcats, 70-69. 
"Villanova is a good team," Irish mentor Digger Phelps commented. "They came in here sky high after beating us last year. We were not looking ahead to UCLA. We just can't afford to make 18 turnovers in the fi~;st half. ·, .

'. 
"We we're a little impatient," Phelps continued. 

"Villanova is a very good team," pointed out. "We were a little the Irish coach emphasized after impatient and we just weren't the game. "They came in here sky concentrating and reading the situ­high after beating us last year nad ations. Of course, a lot of credit they thought they could do it again. • has to be given to Villanova's 
Obviously when you are a ranked defensive performance." team other teams are going to be The Wildcats took it to Notre up when they play you. It was Dame right from the start as they great basketball game." jumped out to a 15-7 lead. The 
Phelps was quick to emphasize Irish then displayed some offensive that his squad was not caught prowess as they outscored Villa­looking ahead to the Bruins show­nova 23-16. Bill Hanzlik's two free down slated for this Sunday. He throws gave the Irish their first did express some disappointment lead of the ball game, 31-29, with about the 26 turnovers which the 2:01 remaining in the first half. Irish committed throughout the Duck Williams hit from the corner game. to make the half time score 33-32. 
"We can't afford to commit 18 When the second half started it 
turnovers in the first half," he appeared the game might be a runaway as Notre Dame scored eight unawnsered points to take a 41-32 lead. Then the great "Turnover" returned to haunt the Irish and Villanova fought back to tie the game at 66 with 1:10 showing on the clock. Rich Branning made good on two free throw attempts to give the Irish a two-point edge and Williams con­verted two from the line with 11 seconds remaining to make the score 70-67. A Reggie Robinson lay-up with four seconds left ended the scoring as the clock ran out giving Notre Dame their tenth victory in 13 starts this season. 
Dave Batton and Duck Williams shared the scoring honors for the Irish with 14 apiece. Batton also hauled in 13 rebounds to lead the game in that category. Freshman Orlando Woolridge made good on five of seven from the field enroute to a ten-point performance and Phelps was pleased with his show­ing. 
"I was glad to see him play well," Phelps commented. "He gave us some inside scoring, 
"We weren't concentrating, reading the situation and then going into it and getting the job done. But, when you don't play well and still win you can't feel negative about it." 
Yes, how can one be pessimistic about the latest goings on in Notre Dame basketball. Regardless of the scores, the Irish have won three straight. What's more important is that the crucial test is only three days away. The UCLA Bruins will enter the ACC this Sunday, their only nonconference road game. 
UCLA has vastly improved since the Irish saw them last month. Notre Dame handed the Bruins their only defeat thus far this season. UCLA will definitely be ready to make up for that game last December 10. 
In addition, the Irish have never been able to defeat the Bruins t~ice in one season. Although the Irish captured last year's contest in Pauley Pavilion, 66-63, the Bruins evened the score in South Bend on January 23, 1977 by a 70-65 mark. 
Yes, with Gary Cunningham at the Bruin controls, UCLA resembles the John Wooden teams of yester­year. The Bruins will be an ultimate test; they have been consistently improving. 
"The Bruins are awesome," Phelps stressed. "They've got it back to where it was a few years ago." 
The time is approaching, the second battle of the season with the Bruins. No matter what the outcome is, a solid performance against UCLA can keep the Irish cagers on the road to their goal of an NCAA bid. 
With the long and difficult schedule Notre Dame faces, an· undefeated season would have been . a miracle. For any team to go undefeated in college basketball today is unbelievable. Whether a team finishes with an unblemished record like Indiana two years ago, or end the season with a 25-7 mark like Marquette last season, doesn't matter. Both teams proved they had what it takes at the end of the season. 
UCLA is just a start. Maryland, Holy Cross, DePaul, North Carolina State, Marquette and more all linger in the future. The Irish have showed this year they can play with the hest. The losses over the holidays are behind us. It's time now to explode and play to the potential that took an extended Christmas vacation. 
In football, the Green Machine debuted in the Southern Cal game and continued to dominate their opponents for the remainder of the season. Last year, the Irish cagers rebounded from a poor showing over Christmas and proved how great a team they were against the San Francisco Dons in the end. 
This Sunday, the Irish will have another opportunity to ruin an opponent's visit to the ACC. It's not something that will just happen. It grows out of support and belief in oneself. It starts to grow at a Bruin pep rally on S~turd~,ty Qight and explodes on Sunday at 4 p.m. " · • · 

something we've been lacking. He "We are probably one of the best showed a lot of poise and made free throw shooting clubs in the some very big baskets." country,'' Massimino commented, 
Kelly Tripucka added nine points ''and we could have won here if 
to an Irish performance which saw we'd have been on target tonight." the team shoot a respectable 52 "Notre Dame hung in well and percent from the field. came up with the key buckets. 
Villanova turned in a balanced they're so big it's incredible." box score with all five starters And so the Irish prepare for the tallying twin-figures. Keith Her­Bruins on Sunday. When asked if ron, Alex Bradley and Whitey he had any thoughts about the Rigsby each contributed 13 to the upcoming game, Phelps replied: Wildcat's losing effort while Rory "'They're going to be tough. Sparrow notched 11 and Reggie I've got to sit back and evaluate Robinson had 10. The big story, some situations." coach Rollie Massimino said was The game Sunday is slated to get his squad's 13 for 20 performance underway at 4 p.m. It will be from the free throw line. televised nationally. 
Chip Scanlon 

leers Heat Up 
Chip Shots 
It finally happened and the student body was either wrapped up in final 
examinations or on vacation. What happened, you ask? Did Father 
Hesburgh visit the campus? Has the official University schedule 
eliminated Christmas vacation to add needed class days? Or has the SLC 
finally talked about an issue other than parietals? 
No, the Notre Dame hockey team has turned the corner and is playing 
its best hockey of the season. After a rocky start the team has won six of 
its last ten Western Collegiate Hockey Association contests along with 
tying Minnesota's Golden Gophers. And they hope to stay on the right 
track again this weekend as they battle the Colorado College Tigers. 
Lefty Smith has to be wondering if the students will ever be around or at 
least not distracted when the Irish are home in the Athletic and 
Convocation Center. First the icers swept Michigan State while everyone 
and their brothers were away for Thanksgiving break. Then the Irish 
ventured to Michigan Tech and handed the Huskies a 4-2 defeat, ending 
up with a split of the series at the Student Ice Arena in Houghton which is 
no easy chore for any hockey team in the WCHA. 
Finally North Dakota invaded the ACC for the final series before break and the weather kept the Fighting Sioux in Grand Forks long enough to delay the games until Saturday and Sunday, prime time for the grade conscious student to be studying for finals. Notre Dame came away with another sweep, 4-3, 5-4 and won Sunday's game with a comeback that ended in overtime and Terry Fairholm's goal. 
WCHA action began again on January 6th when Minnesota attempted to continue their winning streak at the Williams Arena in Minneapolis. The Gophers had won ten in a row at home without a loss, a stretch that moved them into fourth place behind Denver, Wisconsin and Michigan in the WCHA standings. But the Irish became the first team to escape Williams Arena with a point by virtue of a 5-5 tie that overtime couldn't settle. There was plenty of action, even two altercations that saw Dan Byers give Jim Boo a lesson in the art of pugilism and few reasons for not being the third man into a fight when one of the men is Byers. 
The last part of this tale occurred last weekend when the number one ranked Denver Pioneers came to the ACC, and for a change the students were on vacation. Denver had only lost three games, one of those on the first night of the season, and looked to be a formidable challenge for Smith's skaters. But a lot of hustle by Tom Michalek's checking line against the highest scoring line in the WCHA and a exceptional performance by Len Moher spelled Denver's demise, 5-3. Notre Dame never trailed in the game and used disciplined play from every skater to hand the Pioneers their fourth loss. The next night the Irish almost did it again, finally bowing by an identical score but playing the nation's best even for a weekend, 8-8. 
The Irish are now in sixth place in the league, just one point ahead of Colorado College. Fifth place in the league is within reach for the skaters and two wins this weekend will by an important step. The hockey team is anxious to play in front of the students and there are no distractions at this early point of the semester. • 
Hopefully the loss to Western Michigan won't dampen the enthusiasm of the crowd. The game was an experiment for Smith and the team; several regulars sat out and others were in their places to gain experience against the top scoring team in the CCHA. It was a chance to see skaters under game conditions and will pay dividends next year. Don't be fooled by the outcome of the contest. 
The weekend's games with Colorado College promise to be filled with a lot of hard hitting and good skating. Colorado College was picked to finish in the top four and after a stretch of injuries are returning to top form. They have one of the league's top freshmen, Greg Whyte, and some experienced forwards in Jim Kronschnabel and Mike Haedrich. And don't forget college hockey's answer to Kermit Washington, Dean Magee, will be performing, too. 
It looks like a couple of that sort will give the crowd a lot of hockey to cheer about. The Irish icers are at the top of their game now, hopefully the students will be too this weekend. 
~-----SP.orts----~~ 
NEWS Notre Dame soccer team to meet 
There will be a meeting today for all present soccer team members at 
4:30 p.m. in Ca!roll Hall. 
Any new athletes interested in playing on the soccer team for the Spring and Fall will meet at 6:30p.m. on Monday, January 23, in the ACC Auditorium. 


UCLA pep rally set for Saturday 
There will be a pep rally for the ·UCLA basketball game Saturday night at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Speakers will include Head Coach Digger Phelps, Dave Batton, Duck Williams and a special guest. 
WNDU to air Cotton Bowl special 
WNDUTV, Channel16, will present a two hour Cotton Bowl special Saturday night at 7 p.m. Joining Jeff Jeffers will be Head Coach Dan Devine, Assistant Head Coach Merv Johnson and Defensive .Coordinator Joe Yonto. 






