
Vol. XIII, No. 23 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, September 28, 1978 
To discuss rights 
McKenna plans student forum 

Sister jane Scully, the first woman elected to Gulf's board, spoke in the Library Auditorium last night to open the Cardinal O'Hara series of Lectures [photo by Lee Sender] See story on page 3. 
-~------------------------------~ 
Ho~Jse Ethics Committee votes to censure Roybal 
WASHINGTON [AP( fhe House ethics committee voted 9-0 yester­day to recommend that the House censure Rep. Edward R. Roybal, D-Calif., for his part in the South Korean influence-buying scandal. 
The committee recommendation was based on a finding that Roybal accepted and failed to report properly a $1 ,000 campaign contri­bution from South Korean rice dealer Tongsun Park, that he diverted the funds to his own use and that he lied when he originally ':estified that he had received 
1thing of value from Park. 
Censure is stronger than a 
eprimand-the weakest form of 
mnishment for violations of the 
'ouse. It requires that the 
,ngressman stand in front of the 
dl House while the findings 
gainst him are read. 
A reprimand does not require that he be present when the findings are read. 
The last House censure was in 1921 against Rep. Thomas Blanton of Texas, who was accused of introducing an obscene resolution. 
The committee agreed by identi­cal 9-0 votes that all three counts had been sustained by the "' eight of evidence. It cleared Roybal of a fourth ·charge -that he also lied when he later told the committee that he put the money into the general cash flow of his re-election campaign. That vote was 6-2 with one member voting present. 
The full House now must decide whether to proceed with the recom­mendation of censure. 

Roybal is one of four current House members accused by the committee of violating House rules in connection with the alleged scandal. He could face pun1shment ranging from a reprimand to dis­missal from House membership. The committee also could decide to turn the case over to the Justic,~ Department for possible federal action. 
None of the four currently face federal charges. The justice Department probe is separate from the committee's probe, which in­volves only current members of Congress. 
Roybal was accused by the committee of failing to report a Sl,OOO campaign contribution made by Park in 1974. 
by Kevin FJchardso-' Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Andy McKenna spoke last night about the importance of Student Rights and tonight's discussion forum in Washington Hall with Administra­tion officials. Stating that "Stu dent rights have steadily deterior­ated in the pa!.t few years. McKenna outlined his criticism of the present input mechanisms and his proposed solutions. 
"Student Rights, which are the mechanism for formal input into University policy, are much weaker now than they were a year ago,'' McKenna said. ''There are three basic deficiencies in the Campus Life Council which makes it weaker than the former Student Life Coun­cil." McKenna stated. 
"There is no -accountability on the part of the Vice President for Student Affairs. Many of the proposals from last year were made and then simply filed away" McKenna -stated. He said the reason for this is that "There is no procedure outlined to cover CLC proposals.'' 
•...QegigQative -­
gtudenm can have dmect iltput...' 
McKenna said that Student Government was looking for an articulation from the Administra­tion and the Board of Trustees regarding student input "hopefuJly m the form of the proposal that was drawn up by Student Government earlier this month. "he said. 

''Secondly, a great amount of the student input into the writing of duLac and other University regula­hons has been transferred to Student Affairs . The SLC didn't delegate· its power of 'legislation' to the CLC.' McKenna said. 
McKenna is seeking a restora­tion of this power to the CLC from the Board of Trustees in its upcoming meeting. 
In his final point, McKenna said that the preamble of the SLC described it as a ''legislative body" where the CLC's preamble describes it as an "advisory bodv." 
"We feel this difference is ·ritical and understand that the : LC was not 'legislative' in the !l.et: -;e of having an override power fl•r :etos," McKenna said. "How­ever, we look at 'legislative' as meaning that students can have direct input into University policy. 
If the CLC is merely an 'advi­sory' council, we are reduced to simply reacting to policy developed 


---·-, 
..
Israeli Knesset votes to endorse treaty· 
by the Administration.'' McKenna 
said. 
"Though we will seek to change 
this at the upcoming Board of 
Trustees meeting, it will probably 
take more than one meeting to do 
it." McKenna said. 
McKenna also remmde<l stu­dents about :he importance of the discussion , orum tonight with Administratico,, officials. ''It is obvious that.,. ·e have lost ground. If we want to reassert our rights, we have to show the Administration that we reall:_ care. A large turnout will help in tnis effort.'' he said. 

McKenna concluded by saying that "since we have introduced our plan, we have stuck to it and ·followed through on it. There have heen no changes c·r modifications." 
JERUSALEM [AP]· The Israeli parliment voted by a 2-1 margin early today to endorse the Camp David Mideast accords and remove the Jewish settlements in the Sinai peninsula, opening the way to a peace treaty with Egypt. 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin, whose speech closed out more than 17 hours of debate. said before the vote: "I call on this chamber, without any differences in party to unite." 
"! don't believe in you and I don· t trust your policies," said Moshe Shamir, accusing Begin of collapsing under pressure from Egyptian President Anwar Sadat on the settlement issue. The Camp David Accords, Shamir said, would lead to "a couterfeit peace built on Israeli surrender.'' 
About 77 of the 120 members of Parliment were scheduled to speak before the vote. 
The emotion-charged issue of the West Bank settlements prompted defections trom Begin's suppor­ters, but that loss was expected to be offset by affirmative votes from ~eftist parties. Labor Party speakers generally spoke in support of the accords. 

"The achievement is greater than the price," said -former Foreign Minister Abba Eban. 

But-the Likud rebellion reached worrying proportions, prompting Begin to unleash his heaviest ammunition -to a 1·esignation threat. He told a ('..abinet meeting before the Parlirnl:nt debate that he could not continue in office without a majority of his 69 man coalition behind him. An informal vote count. however, gave him more than 40 coalition votes. 
Sadat has made the next stage of negotiations conditional on Parli­ment's agreement to evacuate the 18 Jewish settlements in the Sinai and their 4.000 residents. 

"Can I help youJ" These words form a part of that daily ritual of ND students--meaa. at the dining hall. [Photo by Lee Sender) 
2 the observer~-----_ Thursday, September:_1_8, 197l_ 
r-News Briefs----............ 
t::::===========::::::::::==================:Wo rid 
Beechcraft crashes 
SiUI Juan, Puerto Rico-An engine explosion apparentll v·as responsible for the fiery crash of a small plane into a residential ure of San Juan, killing the plane's six passengers and two persons on the ground. The twin-engine Beechcraft crashed and burned Tuesday night on a crowded street. The two killed on the ground were in a car crushed by faJling debris. Six other persons were injured. Witnesses said the Beechcraft was closely trailing an Eastern Airlines jet and appeared to collide with it. But the pilot of the Eastern Airlines plane said on of the Beechcraft's engines apparently exploded and denied, the) had collided. 

Ro,·alty rejects jets 
London-Cueen Elizabeth II, flies to engagements in 14 ye..r old turi:'o props because the government is too mean to buy jets for her. an aviation writer said yesterday. "The queen is flying in slower, older aircraft than any other head of state in the Western and probably the Eastern world," editor Michael Ransden wrote in "Flight International" weekly. He said the government rejected m(1dern jet replacements in 1972 and again in 1978. 
A Buckingham Palace spokesman said that for long hauls, royalty flits by Royal Air Force VC-10 or Concorde, but for hundreds of !>hort hops each year the queen uses Hawke Siddsley Andovers "because she likes them." Ransden said the cost of trading the Ando•,ers for jets could be partly offset by selling the Andovers to the /.mericans. 
::::::::====::::::===================== National 
Blaze contained 
Hackberry, La.-A secondary tire was contained early yesterday at the strategic petroleum reserves where a five-day blaze burned $1 milliop of the nation's emergency oil stockpile. The new fire erupted Tuesday night but was confined to a pool of oil inside a dike and never spread to the well-head. Bill Parker, deput project manager, said the fire reignited because of hot spots in the pit of oil around the well. Trouble-shooters on Tuesday plugged the shaft through which oil was flowing ou of the 7-:'lillion barrel storage cavern. One man was killed and another ourned in a fire and explosion at the facility last Thursday. 


Ramada gambles 
Ramada Inns Ind., N.J A national motel chain, says it will mak\! its first venturt> into the gaming industry by purchasing two Boardwalk hotels. The firm, based in Phoenix, Ariz., said Tuesday it would have one of the casino hotels operating by the end of next year. Ramade Inns did not disclose the names of the hotels operating by the end of next year. Ramada Inns did not disclose the names of the hotels, but sources here said the shuttered 634­
c 
room Ambassador and the nearby 361-room Sheration-Deauville hotels were involved in the deal. 

Magnified marijuana 
Wenatchee, Wash.-A microsopic examination in a biology lab turned into a police interrogation for a Wenatchee High School .;tudent. The class assignment last Friday was inspecting fungi. But a IS-year-old student was charged with possession of marijuana tfter the biology teacher discovered the "grass" that he was 
1tently studying was the wrong specimen. 
• 
.......oca.'.
' ' 



WEATHER 
Mostlv sunny and pleasant today with highs around 70. Clear and cool tonight with lows in the low 40s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs i• the mid 70s. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
5:30pm 6:30pm 7,9,11 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm ...;,• 
meeting, notre dame circle k club, faculty dining room, south dining hall 
organizational meeting, nd cycle touring club, basement of Iafortune 
film, "the french connection," winner of five academy awards, sponsored by marketing club, engr. aud., $1 
piano recital, jeffrey jacob, little theatre, sponsored by smc music dept. 
nd piano trio, sponsored by nd music dept., lib. aud. 
..... .... .. . ·­
"·--·· ..... 
'Extremely enthusiastic' 

Students respond to CDC 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 

The Saint Mary's Career Develop­ment Center (CDC) did not expect their Life Planning Workshops to be unpopular, but neither did they expect the tremendous response they have received. 
The workshops involve skill building in resume writing, inte-­view techniques, job searching, and work values/decisior making. 
·'The response was extremely 

·-·nthusiastic. We have more people ;igned up than we can reaity handle," Betsy Twitchell, assistant jirector of Career Developme.tt 
*The Observer 
Co-Night Editors: Tom 
Behney, Sherry Mummert Layout Staff: Kathy Tighe, Tom Heil, Bea Witzleben 
Editorial  Layout:Rosemary  
Mills  
Features  Layout:Karen  
Caruso  

Sports Layout:Debbie Dahr"­
!ing . Typists: Tricia Meehan, Ros1e Rodgers, Beth Willard 
Early Morning Typist: Lisa 
OiValerio Oav Editor: Keith Melerango Copy Reader: Tim Joyce, Mark Rust 
Ad Layout:Weiner DeSalvo, 
Bub. Photographer: any body's guess 
The Obser.-er is p•lblished Mon. day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. fhe Observer is published by •he students of Notre Dame ami S~tint Mary's College. Subscripflons may be pllrchased for $70 per \"Ur (51 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, N.otre Dame, Indiana 46556 _ Second clan postage paid, Notre Da;ne, Indiana, 4655,. 
The Observer Is a mo"tbor of tt-e Alloclated Press. All repro­duction rights are resorvecf. 
need resumPs ._in a
-
hurry? 

@WI 

insty-prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 

rag bond 25 -81/2 X 11 $2.55 20J N. Ma~r1 SoBend 28969/ 

C~ERT ~LCLARK 
SAT, sEPT·~ oATE cHANG_!. ­
"1;:i., 5et§{. 29 -8 pm Notre Dame Library Aud. 
Canoe-Kayak rental-sales 
call now for reservation The Sport Corner 
320 N. Redbud Tr. Buchanan, MI 616-695-2250 ~md Counseling, explained. the workshops in their individual 
But they are working on the halls. problem. Additional sections •,f Over 100 people also signed up for almost all the workshops have bee : the CDC's Interview Skills Work­added to accomodate intereste.i shop scheduled for Monday, Oct. 2 students. Another full set of from 7 to 9:30p.m. That workshop workshops will be offered betweeH will now be held in Carroll Hall, October break and Thanksgiving. Madeleva, instead of the Presi­
she said_ dent's Board Room in LeMans as 
The ovcrenrollment problem wa: originally planned. ·. xemplified by the response to tht An actual recruiter will be there to resume writing clinic. The CDC role play an interview with a had expected 20 people to sign up student, Twitchell said. 
for the clinic but lOS decided to An additional section of the job take it. search workshop was also addec! 
To cope with this problem, the These "Life Planning Wm k-workshop, which was originally to shops" are open to Saint Mar:·'s be divided into a two part service and Notre Dame students of all will be consolidated into one camp-classes and majors, Twitchell rehensive session for two different emphasized. Students may sign up groups. Mary Ann Daly, the •l)r the November workshops nl)w workshop's leader, is now training ir: the Career Development Cen:er, 
the various hall directors to lead •7S LeM2 ns. 
'.tlfmI M;lo North of NOTRE DAME or U.S. 31



SATURDAY OCT· 28 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A·C·C· All Seats Reserved $8.50 & $7.50 Ticket sale starts this Monday Oct. 2 
A.C.C. Box Office ·gam to Spm and STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AT 9am 
........... _ ... -·----·· ......... --~----...-·...... --·---~ 

... 


Thursday, September 28~ 1978 the observer 
Gulf Board member 
THE SCHOOL OF MORTGAGE BANKING 
• 
In Recognition of Its


Sr. Scully opens Iecture .senes RfthYear~~:.~w~:carr.,us 
by Mark Rust Staff Reporter 
Sr. Jane Scully, a member of Gulf Oil Corporation's board of directors, said yesterday that her opportunity to serve on Gulf's board is "a greater chance to build the kingdom of God, greater than any other force in my life, includ­ing, perhaps, the Church." 
Scully, the first woman ever elected to Gulfs board, made the comment during a Cardinal O'Hara Series lecture before an audience of about 100 students and faculty members in the Memorial Audi­torium. 
While still president of Carlow College, a post she has held for eleven years, Scully joined the Gulf board in 1975, just prior to the issuance of federal indictments which charged the corporation with illegal campaign contributions to Richard Nixon's campaign fund. 
Scully spoke of the recurring cycle of ''Invitation, Intervention and Aftermath" during her hour long speech and called the Gulf scandals "an invitation." 
"(It was) God's invitation to take 
on a particular task. Corporations 
are like people ... they are sinners 
too," she said. 
Gulf, which "laundered" 
$100,000 in illegal campaign contri­
butions and "lost" $15 million over 
a ten year period, fired their top 
executive officers as a result of the 
scandal. 
"It was the most extraordinary 
action ever taken by a corporation 
in an effort to restore to the 
corporation a sense of integrity and 
rectitude," she said. 
In addition to the high level 
dismissals, the actions of the 
company included the restructur­
ing of the tax organization an~ the 
establishment of both a busmess 
principles committee and a human 
resources committee to evaluate 
the ethical standing of the staff. 
Scully related to the audience 
that she had a direct role in the 
outcome of the corporate action 
that made "53 chief executive 
e 


ISer 
II INC OF PF.ERS• • ANHEUSER BUSCH. INC • STLOUIS 
officers ... tremble.'' She explained the details of the "intervention" that followed the "invitation." 
She said that after reading John McClure's (a company hired analyst) report on the political contribution, "it was quite clear to me that there were persons in the corporation very guilty of some illegal activity. My heart sank to my toes.'' 
She told B.ob Dorsey, the com­pany's chief executive officer that she was going to have to ask for his resignation. When she went into what the New York Times de­scribed as a "23 hour marathon meeting,'' she knew that she ''wanted four people to go--and all of them were my friends." 
Scully told the board that ''nothing will correct this situation...except a change of ad­ministration." A long silence in the board room was followed by a reluctant acceptance or ~cully's proposal. 
Invitation, Intervention and 
Aftermath 

Returning to her "Invitation, Inter­vention, Aftermath" theme, Scully oberved that the cycle repeats itself. "Once the corporation turns itself around, (there exists) a bigger challenge ...(we come) to a higher level of awareness of re­sponsibility. That is the 'new invitation.' '' 
Scully said that she feels her biggest contribution to both the Gulf board and the board of the Pitsburgh Port Authority, which she sat in on in 1971, is a "sense of perspective, a larger view ...a more cosmic view.'' 
Her point was illustrated with a story about her first venture into the corporate affairs of Gulf. She interrupted a Bermuda meeting of Gulf presidents from 70 different countries to ask why they were concentrating on where they stood financially in comparison to other corporate entities. 
"Why don't we talk about the state of the world first and then decide where we should place ourselves in it?'' she asked. 
In response to a question about the fuel shortage, Scully said that 
there "was a problem. We need to 
find new supplies and we have to find it in our own areas.'' She pointed out that it is "extra­
ordinarily expensive" to search for oil, and once the oil is found there 
is a time lag or five to ten years before it can be used.' 
·s~uHv said that she "couldn't say" whether or not Gulf keeps their oil reserves ''artificially low.'' 
Scully said that besides giving a unique perspective to corporate boards she has also gained a personal perspective on boards in general. 
Boards are Oosed Oubs 
"Boards are closed clubs. The same people serve on board after board after board. The men on the boards in Pittsburgh are making a fortune. I'm not saying that it isn't appropriato that they make money. Ijust think that more people should have the chance,'' she said. 
She said that, while boards are very powerful, corporations listen to the input of their stockholders. 
"Corporations take very seriously one simple question raised at a shareholder's meeting. Putting a billboard up does not get you that good of coverage," Scully said. 
As a nun, Scully said she felt that it is appropriate to be on a board of directors because she has' 'insights into religious and social concerns and their relation to oublic con­cerns." 
In 1971 Scully, president of Carlow College in Pittsburgh, joined the Allegheny Port Author­ity ''because of the challeng~ and 
because ... as  a  citizen  yc '1  are  
expected  to  contribute  time  and  
energy to the city.''  

Besides the Gulf and Port -Authority boards, Scully has served on other boards in the Pittsburgh area. She observed that serving as a dire61or is no easy 
[contmued on page 15] 

All Members of the University Community 
U------:---.:-.---.--2'J~o~A~tt~e~n~dT.::Its~Le=du~;:ref.s~i:;ii;;;~;;;;--t1
Auditorium, enter for ontlnulng Edu on 
Lecture Schedule Fundamentals of Mortgage Banking and Real Estate Rnance 
MONDAY, OC:TOBER 2, 1978 
8:30-9:00 A.M. lntrodudion to the School of Mort­gage Banking DR. JOHN P. NEWTON 
9:00-10:15 A.M. Origination of Single-Family I.Dans! THOMAS C. MARTIN, President and Chairman of the Board, Ken­nedy Mortgage Company, Cam­den, New Jersey. 
10:15-10:30 A.M. Coffee 1o:30-11 :45 A.M. Underwriting the Residential Loan JOHN D. FITZMAURICE, Vice President, Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation, Milwau­kee, W isconsln. 1:00-2 :00 P.M. Underwriting the Residential Loan­Continued JOHN D. FITZMAURICE Rnandal Institutions and Their
2:00·3 :00 P.M . 
Purposes DR. HERBERT E. SIM, Professor and Chairman, Department of Finance and Business Economics, lJniversity of Notre Dame. 
3:00-3:15 P.M. Coffee 
3:15-5 :30 P.M. Rnandal Institutions and the Fed­Continued DR. HERBERT E. SIM 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER3, 1978 
8:30-1 o:oo A.M. Tenninology in Real Estate Trans­adions RONALD F. POE, CMB, Presi­
dent, Dorman and Wilson, Inc., White Plains, New York. 
10:00-10:15 A.M. Coffee 
10:15-11:45 A.M. Broker, Banker, Correspondent and Who's Who in Mortgage Banking 
RONALD F. POE 
1 :00-2:30 P.M. Role of Non-Financiallnstituions in Real Estate RONALD F. POE 
2:30-2:45 P.M. Coffee 
2:45-5 :00 P.M. Tlle Responsibilities of Mortgage Administration in Today's Lending Process RONALD F. POE 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER4, 1978 
8:30-1 o:00 A.M. Processing and Closing Residential Loans 
D. GENE MERRILL Senior Vice President, Residential Lending and 
Marketing  Divisions,  Mercantile  
Mortgage  Company,  St.  Louis,  
Missouri  
10:00-10:15 A.M. Coffee  

10:15-11 :45 A.M. Ma.rketing and Warehousing Resi­
dential Loans RICHARD J. STADLER Vice Pre­sident, National Homes Accep­tance Corporation, Lafayette, Indi­ana. 
1:00-2 :00 P.M Aivate Mortgage Insurance 2:00-2:15 P.M. JOHN D. FITZMAURICE Coffee THURSDAY, OCTOBERS, 1978 
8:30-1 o:30 A.M. lntrodudion to Real Estate Law DONALD BRENNER, J.D., Profes­sor of Real Estate Law, American 
University, Washington, D.C. 10 :30-10 :45 A.M. CoHee . 1o:45-11 :45 A.M. Federal National Mortgage Assoa­
ation and the Free Market Auction ROBERT B. JOSELDWI Depart­ment of Mortgage Programs, Fede­ral National Mortgage Association, W ashlngton, D.C. 
This advertisement Is continued 
on the next page. 
--~--­

the observer Thursday, September 2.8, 197~ 
Former police chief to run security 
by Pat Mangan was indicted for arson and the better police coverage. position for a chief of security 
ion, not an appointed one. In turn secon.d alle.dgedly misused fund~. According to the Richton Star, position, he explained, "I was 
he said that he had not been a Joseph W. Wall, former chief of Durmg hts three years as chtef, when Wall announced his resignat-losing my challenge. In 1975 there political appointee, and that he and police at Richton Park, IL ~. and ~all brought charges against six ion early in July, village officials was much corruption, but now the the mayor had a helpful under­responsible for eliminating the Rtc~t?n Park officers ~nJ asked an said they would accept his resignat-force has been cleaned up.'' Wall standing of eacr. other--"1 stayedcorruption within that police force, addtttonal three to restgn. He also ion "with regret". William also added, "I was considering out of politics and he stayed out of will replace Arthur N. Pears as re-organized the department's ~e-McGill, viJlage manager said, "In becoming an agent for the Federal law enforcement.'' director of campus security as of cord system, range program, mam-the two years I've worked with Joe, Bureau of Investigation.'' Accord­
Although Wall was appointed toOct. 2, 1978. tenan~e program, court SY.S~em he's made every ~ffort to develop a ing to Wall, he has had an head the security force here andFor the past three years Wall has recordmg methods and accountmg police department that Richton application in at the FBI for some although he recognized his positionbeen striving to £lean up the procedures for complaints. In Park could be proud of." time. But Wall says he wants here as involving more co-operat­Richton Park police department. addition, Wall said he updated something right now and that the ion, Wall did say that he did notThe two previous chiefs before patrol procedures and created a When Wall was asked why he position at Notre Dame is it. "I like consider himself a political ap­Wall resigned under fire. The first zone system which resulted in was leaving a chief of police working in schools and I like 

pointee. Wall also said, "I like to ·--------------------------· working with students, and besides 
be candid and I like to be open.

Notre Dame ip top notch," Wall
I 
That's my style."

commented. In announcing Wall's arrival, 
I 
Before being elected chief at Roemer both praised Pears and welcomed Wall. Roemer stated, 
I SENlOR BAR I 
II I :~~~~nso~~:~lo~:~l :~;e~e~~ra~ 
"Art's 65th birthday in in Decem­high school. During the two years ber and he has done a great job.

he spent there, Wall said that he He came here and started from
I I 
had reversed a violent racial prob-
I 
scratch and built security into the!ern which existed there. He also
1 professional organization that it is
described these two years as the
I today." In reference to Wall,
most thrilling and rewarding of his Roemer commented, "I'm confid­
I 
career. 
ent in his ability. He's greatIn discussing changes which he communicator and he has a real 

intendstomake,Wallsaidthathe 
zest for life--I. think you're gonnaI -I hopes to abide by the Security audit love 'im." 

I I HAPPV HOUR FRIDAY 4 7 II h 
which was recently conducted on Wall is 35 years old, married, 
I 
I 
campus. He also pointed out t at and the father of one child. His 
the budget would probably be the 
I 
first limiting factor placed on his wife, Carol Ann, is a graphics artist
I foriilinoisBell Telephone company plans. and his son, Eric David, is three.
I BEER 3 fOr S1•00 I 
bsn.pnegcifiatciahlulym,aWnat"sltlt.scaidap'p"rlowacahnt ttoo His academic accomplishments
include; an associate of arts degreeI \ ' · • I dealing with students and faculty.'' in law enforcement from Thornton
I . !0 • He emphasized the need for public Community College in South 
I 
_...._ ~O b ~-relations people at the main gate Holland, II.; a bachelor of arts ini · ~ and east gate, since the front gate · social justice from Lewis University 
is where people are first met and at Lockport, IL; and preliminary 
gather their first impressions of work on a masters degree in public
I Notre Dame. Wall also said, "I administration at Roosevelt Univ-I • 1 think it's a good idea for more ersity of Chicago. ·He has also1 students to be involved with secur-completed police training institutes
I 

ity." of the University of Illinios in basicI Although Wall will answer to training, community relations, andI James A. Roemer, dean of stud-youth officer manual. In addition,
I 
ents, and Fr. John L. Wall has completed the supervisorI 0~C.. • . I Wolvlear, vice-president of student school of the Cook County Sheriff's~ ~'-;;;) ,, ' affairs, Wall said that he believed Department and other special
I 
th t h h" d t ·ty courses administered by the FBI,
I a~~'-"' I a e was tre 0 run secun . Illinois State Police and Bureau of <_.~ ~\_) AND ALUMNI INVITED I po~~i!oin::d c~:!/h~: h~~~:~;m~~ ~~~es~:r~?:~ K~~~e~ol~~~~u~~;
I ' ~ 1 Richton Park was an elected posit-College. 

1------------~-------------..IF=============================~ 
THE SCHOOL OF MORTGAGE BANKING continued5 convenient locations 

Thurs. Oct 52934 E. mcKinley 
1:00-3:00 P.M. Basic Economics and Mortgage1725 N. ltonwood 
Banking DR. HERBERT E. SIM
1426 mlah. ave 
3:00-3:15 P.M. Coffee

4401 S. michigan St., S. Bend 
3:15-5 :30 P.M. An Introduction to lnmme Property 113 Dlxleway N(US31) Roaelanda 
Fina11cing ROBERT F. MACSWAIN, Secre­tary, Hartford Life Insurance Com­pany, Hartford, Connecticut. 
FOOTBALL SPECIALS 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER6, 1978 


t••············ :··············:
* ,. 
8:30-9:30 A.M. The Mortgage Market Today
: Pabst _: Stroh's : _Olympia a 
JOSEPH W. BOULICAULT, Presi­
dent, J.W. Boulicault & Company,
:241oose cans: 24 loose cans 
: 24 loose can-t 
Winter Park, Florida.
t.15.59 : 15.59 : 16.79 ! 
9:30-9:45 A.M. CoHee 
....................... 
9:45-n :45 A.M. Fundamentals of Residential 
Appr~isal


Black Label Qts. 
MARTIN R. EGGERS, Regional Manager, The Northwestern
S5.99 case (while they last) 
Mutual Life Insurance Company, Washington, D.C. 1:00-2:00 P.M. Insurance Practices of Mortgage

Wines 
Bankers JOHN EASTMAN, Manager,
Keg Specials 
Carlo lloaal J3.99 
Hazard Insurance, National Homes Acceptance Corporation, Lafay­
Inglenook 5.99 
ette, Indiana.
Olympia 130.50 
Coffee ·
2:00-2:15 P.M. 2:15-4:30 P.M. CurTent ·Mortgage Loan Servidng 
Rlunlte 1.99 
Hamm'a J26.99 
Practices L HOWARD HAMILIN, Vice Pre­
sident, Loan Administration, · Transamerica Mortgage Company, San Francisco, California. 
millet LlteJ30.50 

.. .. ...
'". '· .. 


• 'Ill ~ ••.. ; 
...-.· ..a~........................................................................................--~d 
____________________,________,______.........__.,_.______..........,__________ 
Quiet relaxing on the quad makes studying so much easier as this student has discovered. 
Thursday, September 28, 1978 the observer 
WSND to broadcast 
away hockey games 
the station budget would be cut and 

In railroad strike 
Marshall vows to intervene 
WASIDNGTON [AP]-The Carter 
Administration vowed on Wednes­day to ~tep in and "start the trains running again'' by noon today as a clerks' union expanded its crip­piing two-day rail strike to virtually all of the nation's major railroads. Labor Secretary Ray Marshall ordered officials from the striking Brotherhood of Railway and Airlhe Clerks (BRAC) and the Norfolk & Western Railway (N&W) to begil! a non-stop, 24-hour bargaining session with the help of a federal mediator at the Labor Department. Marshall said the union and 
BRAC spokesman Henry 
Fleischer said the union was 
removing pickets wherever it had 
been served with court orders. 
However, industry officials were 
complaining they were having 
great difficulty locating union 
officials to serve court papers. 
Marshall said the union had told him it was "reluctant" to end its picketing until it had a settlement with N&W. 
Some 4,600 clerks struck N&W on July 10 because of a dispute over job protection benefits the union wants for workers who may los~ their jobs to automation. 
Union President Fred Kroll said the union picketed the other car­riers so the industry, which has been subsidizing the strikebound N&W with about $800,000 a day under a mutual aid pact, would 
pressure the N&W to settle with the union. ' 
The industry estimated on Tuesday the picketing had affected two-thirds of the nation's railroads in 42 states. There were no immediate estimates of the extent of yesterday'§ picketing. 
The parties began meeting at 
noon. I.ess than three hours later, 
the union leadership ordered pick­
ets thrown up around 73 rail 
carriers which represent every 
major U.S. rail line except the 
Conrail freight system and a few 
smaller bankrupt carriers. 
Industry and union officials 
estimated that Tuesday's initial 
picketing against 43 major lines 
affected two-thirds of the U.S. rail 
system and idled an estimated 
330,000 of the half million railroad 
employees. 
''If they're going after 73 lines, you can call it a national strike," said one industry official, who asked not be be named. "Conrail could operate, but who could they move freight to?" 
The industry official called it a "bad faith" move by the union. The union said intensification of the strike was to protest financial and other support the railroads have given N&W under a mutual aid pact during the 80 days N&W , a major coal hauler, has been struck by the union. . 
The expanded strike left thou­sands of commuters stranded, and brought millions of tons of freight shipments-including half of all rail shipments of food-to a halt. After the first day of the shutdown, the two biggest U.S. auto makers, General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co., announced layoffs due to parts shortages. 
There were some signs that the strike was abating. At least six railroads hit by picketing Tuesday said the pickets had been removed. 
Union officials, however, gave no indication they would call for an end to all the picketing despite temporary court injunctions issued by federal judges in more than 10 cities. ' 
by John McDermott 
As a service to the ND-SMC community, WSND-FM will broad­cast a series of 14 away hockey games this season. The games broadcasted will be played while school is in session with the exception of the series at Colorado College. All home games, as in years past, will be aired on WSND-AM. 
Two years ago a controversy arose when the University Vice­President for Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny requested that the station discontinue the practice of covering hockey. Dom Fanuelle, station manager at the time, took this statement as merely a request and continued to investigate the possibility of broadcasting hockey. It had been broadcasted the pt·e­vious six years with no objections from the administration. 
Paczesny took this action as a threat to defy the University authority over programming and responded with a statement that the station manager fired if WSND aired the hockey games. WSND therefore, decided against covering hockey, for the '76-'77 season. 
However, the problem could have been avoided, according to Doug Van Tornhout. news director at WSND-FM. It seemed that the fm program director at that time, along with several staff rt\embers and at least one departmen head didn't want hockey aired on the FM station. Whe it became apparent that they could not get the rest o of the department heads to agree with them, they went over the board's head and spoke to then Provost James 1-. Burtchaell. "The University was acting as an arbitra­tor for what should have been an internal decision," said Van torn hout. Normal procedure would have allowed the department heads of WSND-FM to decide on the question of broadcasting hockey but once the invitation by the FM program director was made to the Administration to intervene it was 
[continued on page 11] 


inOCchio' 
pizza parlor announces: Student ID Nights 
mon -thurs 9-12 midnight 
Pitchers of Draft for only $1.75 with college ID play pool or watch your favorite TV shows with your friends on our 4 foot screen and enjoy one of our great pizzas open weekdays till ~idnight 
177-4522

fri &sat till I:OOa~
~!~i:~~~~r~~~~~~~eaa:~~~~~~~ lnvest•lgator says tht.rd plane
~ thek contract dispute. Failing ~~~~~~~~~~~~a~z~a~,~j~U~~~~~~~H~e~f~r~0~~~~~~~~U~S~
agreement, he said, "we'll take -r­
~~~fn;~;:~,to start the trains unlikely in San Diego crash FREE HAIR SERVICE 
SAN DIEGO [AP]-A federal in­vestigator said yesterday it now appears remote that a third plane confused the pilot of a jetliner seconds before he collided with a single-engine Cessna. He said it remained a mystery what the pilot meant when he told the tower, "They've passed." 
The third plane, a twin-engine Cessna, actually was eight miles west of the area where the Pacific Southwest Airlines Boeing i27 and a single-engine Cessna 172 collided on approach to Lindbergh Field on Monday morning, said National Transportation Safety Board inves­tigator Phillip Hogue. 
At least 150 persons were killed, including all 135 persons aboard the jet, both persons in the small plane and 13 persons on the ground, making it the "'orst air disaster in U.S. history. 
Investigators said the death toll among those on the ground could go higher as coroner's deputies continued trying to identify bodies. Many victims were mutilated, and deputies were seeking dental charts for identification. 
"It may be days before we know exactly how many actuaJly did die while going about their business," said Warren Chambers, a deputy San Diego county coroner. 
"We can pick out people who lived in that particular area who are missing and apparently died but that doesn't rule out the possibility of a number more." 
Hogue had said Tuesday that taped conversations indicated that Lindbergh traffic controllers told the PSA pilot, James McFeron, that a smaJI plane was also making an approach to the field. 
McFeron told the tower, "They've passed," Hogue said Tuesday. At that time Hogue indicated the tower remark re­ferred to the twin-engine Cessna and he suggested McFeron may have been unaware that there was actually another small plane in the area -the Cessna with which he collided three miles from Lind­bergh. 
But when the twin-engine Cessna was located, it was deter­mined the aircraft was eight miles west of where the crash occurred, Hogue said yesterday. 
''Whether it, (the twin-engine Cessna) would be a factor, seems remote at this time. It would seem to eliminate the third aircraft but I can't eliminate it totally." 
for men & women . We are taking applications for Models for advanced educational workshop. 
Cutting provided by co-Designers of 
MICHAEL & CO 
Apply in person corner of Edison & St. Rd. 23 Y2 mile East of campus. 
We invite you into our new braoch salon for beautv with a touch of royalty and prices that are affordable 
~~ Grand Opening SDecials \ 'l '15.88 Bonat Perm '20.88 Bonat Fragran 
( reg. 30.00 
ues.-Wed.. 8:30-5:00~ ~Thurs.-Fri. 8:30-8:30 Sst. 8:00-5: 
reg. 35.00 ) styling included A 
" · 
32­
=:-=-=~ 

.8...__ ..:a..rv.a.:e1111Lr----~Th~rsday, September 28, 1978
_.t~~..~hue~oub~&:sa 
SMC seniors seek commencement speaker 
by Je1111 Powley St. Mary'& Editor 
The Saint Mary's senior class has begun its search for a speaker for the May 19th commencement exercises. A deadline of Monday, Oct. 2 has been set for students, faculty members, administrators and regents to suggest names at the Academic Affairs office, 132 leMans. 
''We would like to see a good graduation speaker this year who means something to the college and our class," Donna Noonan, class president, said. 
"Althoue:b it would be nice to ~et someone who is well known, the main is that the be a 
NNYSIDE BEVERAGES 
1340 South Bend Ave. 234-1114 
2 b.lks south of Campus 
Daily Sam-4:30pm Sat 8am-1 0:30pm 
Andeker 
Pabst Blue Ribbon Pabst Extra Light old style e,.,{> 
Drewry's 
Falstaff 
DRAFT TRUCK TAPPING EQUIPMENT CUPS AND IC 
KEG BEER ONLY SOLD AT RETAIL 
good speaker," she continued. 
A letter sent to Saint Mary's seniors this week clarified the qualities the graduation speaker should possess. 
"The Commencement speaker should be a person of national repute, if possible. Although political figures are difficult to get firm commitments from, you may know someone personally whom we could contact. A person from business or higher education would also be considered. The person should be an articulate and forceful speaker," the letter explained. 
Noonan said that the college would consider both male and female candidates. 
Once the names are compiled, the list of candidates will be reviewed by an ad hoc committee of the Academic Affairs Council, ac­cording to Noonan. That commit­tee will narrow the list down to the 10 or 15 candidates most relevant to the class of 1979. 
The list will then be reviewed by 
the  Academic  Affairs  Council,  
which  will  be  able  to  add  and  
remove names.  Then, sometime in  

The Beach Boys will be appearing in concert at the Notre Dame ACC on Saturday, Oct. 28, at 7:30 p.m. Tickets go on sale Monday at the ACC box office and the Student Union Ticket 
November, the seniors will be asked to vote for the sneaker they prefer, according to Noona_n 
Once the votes are tallied, she said, the graduation committee will begin with the most popular candi­date and work its way down the list until a speaker makes a committ­ment. 
Nominations are also now open for honorary degree candidates, according to Noonan. The deadline for those nominations in Nov. 1. 
Honorary degree recipient~ should have demonstrated "those qualities which St. Mary's seeks to foster in its graduates", an extra­ordinary service ttl the college, or outstanding contributions to Cath­olic education, the letter the sen­iors received stated. Outstanding artists, scholars or public fi8ures will also be considered, it added. 
Students interested in working on the graduation committee should contact Noonan at 4459 as soon as possible. In addition, graduation plans will be among the items discussed at the Senior Assemble meeting at 6 p.m., Sunday in 161 LeMans, Noonan said. All seniors are welcome to attend. 

Office from 9 am to 5 pm. A ticket lottery will be held Sunday at 6 pm in the main lobby of LaFortune. [Photo by: Bruce Curtis] 
277-1691 
MEN'S HAIR STYLING SALON 
ring: styled hair cuts air dryed $8.50 completeshampoo TUES & WED 
8:30·5:00 
THURS & FRI 
8:30·8:30 
8:30-5:00 
277-1691 


lower level of Queen'1 Castle private entrance 
Between administration,blacks 
Carter tries to heal rift 
say he already had begun making vote accounted for Carter's victory 
______________________tlll!:______________________ ---.----------··-----­
r ­
WASHINGTON [AP[-President Jimmy Carter has moved swiftly to try to heal a rift with the congres­sional Black Caucus after a heated White House meeting during which a prominent black Democrat walked out on the president. 
Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., stalked angrily from the Cabinet Room after verbal exchanges Tues­day with both Carter and Vice­President Walter F. Mondate. 
Conyers and eight other members of the Black Caucus were urging Carter to push harder for passage this year of the Humphrey-Hawkin 
full employment bill. 
The proposal, passed by the House but stalled in the Senate, calls for setting a national goal of reducing adult unemployment to 4 
percent over five years. 
Rep. Parren Mitchell, D-Md., the caucus chairman, said Carter tele­phoned him after the meeting to personal calls to round up support for the bill. This was seen as an obvious effort by the president to smooth over the blow up. 
Deputy White House press secre­tary Rex Granum told a group of reporters the administration does not see the incident as a ''great split" with the Black Caucus. 
He added, "Our support for Humphrey-Hawkins is strong, has been strong, and will continue to be strong. We will continue to push to try to see its passage this year." 
At a news conference after the meeting, Mitchell said, "We had a tough, tense, hard session." He added that caucus members left the White House "with the feeling that a maximum all-out effort will be made to get full employment legislation passed in this session., 
Black voters were among Carter's strongest backers in his campaign for the presidency and some polit­ical analysts have said the black in 1976. 
Administration sources, who asked not to be named, said trouble erupted at the meeting after Carter rejected a Conyers suggestion that a Camp David summit be convened to spur action on the jobs bill. 
lnPirg to .hold first meeting 
InPrig, the consumer group on campus, will hold their first meet­ing this Sunday, Oct.l at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune theater room 1C. Paper and can recycling projects for the campus will be discussed along with a new energy conservat­ion awareness program. Other topics . of discussion will include off-campus surveys, a consumer "tips" column, campus seminars, and political involvement. Anyone interested is invited to attend and get involved with one or more of t.he projects. 
__............... 

i  THURSDAY NIGHT at GOOSE'S  ·---------------···  . ... ~I  
Ii Ii I  2 Days Left Pitchers $1.50  7G7 Bloody Mary's  50¢  Ii II I  
I  8-11  I  

L-----------------------~·--·--~---------....-....~_,........ ·--·---·----····-·-·-·-···-·------·-·-..·····...-....--..--..J· 
------------·--------------------~---------------~----------~---~ 
commentary 
Regain Rights 
Showdown 
ray mcgrath 

The handling of recent legislation by Dean of Students James Roemer has prompted serious concern within the Notre Dame Student 
Tonight students must prove they Student Government formed a committee Government that students no longer have power to initiate or amenddeserve to have inJ:?ut into rules governing and negotiated a compromise. But University policy. More than ever, student leaders are corning totheir lives. Their chance to prove this is al students demanded more than a temporary realize that a demise in student rights has followed in the wake of thethe Student Rights Forum, scheduled for 7 compromise dealing specifically with the disbandment of the Student Life Council (SLC), according to Student 
p.m. in Washington Hall. alcohol directive. A committe 1s negotia­Body President Andy McKenna.
While students are watching this even­ting to increase student input into the The SLC, despite its thorough lack of accomplishment in its finaling to see what Dean Roemer and Fr. Van mal<ing of rules and regulations that years, was a representative student body with a great amount ofWolvlear will do, the administration will be directly affect them. power. Formed in 1968, and approved by the University Board ofwatching to see if the students will do Tonight's forum turns these negotia­Trustees in March, 1969, the Council was composed of faculty,anything. There is no doubt there will be tions over to the student body at large. But student, and administrative members. In its charter, the SLC was some student action. The question students must do more than show UJl. given the responsibility "to establish through legislation rules and remains of whether or not that action will They must show they are organized. The regulations governing student life, to provide for enforcement through show strength and organization. best way to do this is by following the a judicial system which also safeguards the rights of students and to 
The first step students must take is to specific focus of the forum and not wasting ensure the publication of these rules, regulations and procedures."attend--en masse. Poor student atten­t1 me on petty questions. Questions musl The SLC answered directly to the University president. This powerdance will encourage poor responses from be specific. allowed the Council to improve student life by reworking rules the administration. But, if Roemer and Students must support each other in concerning alcohol use, parietal hours and co-ed living. Van W olvlear feel the students are their questioning by acting politely and In the mid-70's the lack of major topics of concern and the lack of emphatic about these issues; if they see maturely. There can be only one question leadership evidenced by SLC members led to the deterioration of thestudents really care, the forum will have at one tm1e. People should keep quiet so council into a glorified debate society. Citing the trend toward greater impact. The administration cannot they can hear the question and response. hall-based activity, former Student Body President Dave Bender afford to make a poor showing in front of Cooperation will strengthen the bond submitted a proposal before the Board of Trustees in April, 1977, to hundreds of students. By the same token, between students and will prove to the rename and restructure the SLC around dormitory life. The result wns 
students cannot afford to make a poor administration that students are adults. the Campus Life Council (CLC).showing in front of the administration. If students ad together, if they cooper­The CLC is primarily composed of several hall rectors and Tonight, the student body must ad-­ate with one another, if they support each vice-presidents, the student body president, two facul~y mem~ers, and tOQefher. other, the administration will have no two administrators, the dean of students and the vtce-prestdent for 
Sfudents can no longer sit back and excuse for ignoring the student body. Student Affairs. watch others act for them. The Hall However, if students fail to attend, · if they Apparently, the CLC founders concern regarding who should Presidents Council, the Campus Life do not cooperate with each other, if they represent the students hid the important question of what Council, Student Union, and Student fail, to support each other; the administra­representative strength the Council would possess. Inst~ad of a bodyGovernment all represent the students. In tion wi II need no excuse to withold student endowed with legislative strength, we have ended up wtth a CouncJ! the wake of student reaction to the now rights. Their point will have been proven which, according to its charter, is simple "an authorized forum...to infamous alcohol directive, the HPC and for them. discuss matters effecting student affairs and to make appropriate 
recommendations relative to hall life directly to the vice-president for Student Affairs." 
In its first year, seven recommendations were submitted to Fr. Just Paczeny, then student affair~ vice-president. All seven filed without 
DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 
action.
%The Observer 
Over this past summer, key portions of the 'University Rules and
>WR. RXJT8ALL Y!Wi, 7HAT 
Regulations' section of DuLac were rewritten under the authority of
an independent newspaper serving Box Q
III<TlCI£ SEEMS 7D 6fJY OUKE 
Dean Roemer, passages which had previously been the concern of the 
8E. tYliJS/NG (1)/TE ~IJOE5N'T 
the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame 
SLC. Then, without consulting any student government body, Roemer
Ind. 46556 circulated a directive warning that the University drinking regulations The Observer is published by students of the University of 
~ A RICHARJ).. TAkE -niiN65 
coMmunity 
would be strongly enforced during football week-ends. According to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Student Body Vice-President, Mike Roohan, this action seems only to reflect the policies of the administration of either institution 
have affected responsible students, not those students who have The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as ­
drinking problems. possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the 
These moves by Roemer, while perfectlywithin the rights delegated Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the 
him through his administrative position, are considered dangerous by the student government because they indicated a trend towardviews of their authors. Column space is available to all 
members of the community, and the free expression of varying 
legislative autocracy by the administration. The confusion and resentment found in student body reaction toopinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Roemer's alcohol directive seems to clearly point toward a need for student input into University policy making. McKenna believes that a revision of the preamble of the CLC charter, giving the Council more accountability, is the best means of achieving this end. McKenna feels that the CLC should have responsibility for DuLae and that the focal 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
. Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief point of policy formation resides in the Council. 
Steve Odland Managing Editor 
Student support is the essential factor which will decide whether the John Calcutt Executive Editor 
CLC achieves more legislative power. McKenna is using several Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 
means to achieve that support. In one step, he and other members of Ro~emary Mills Editorial Editor 
the student government have completed a hall to haJI campaign to Phil Cackley Cor\ Editor 
build student interest and to listen to their ideas. jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
Possibility the most important step toward the ultimate achievement Ann Gales News Editor 
or loss of student legislative power will occur tonight. The forum to be M1ke Lewis News Editor 
held in Washington Hall at 7:00p.m. will give student the chance to D1ane Wilson News Editor 
question Roemer and Vice-President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
Wolvlear about the administration's views on student rights. A large Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
turn-out by concerned students is very important if the CLC is to gain Doug Christian Photo Editor 
either accountability or the power to have effective input into the University policy making. It cannot be overemphasized that until a year ago, the student body
Mardi Nevin Production Manager 
had a strong voice in the SLC. McKenna stated Wednesday that "inJohn Tucker Business Manager order to regain these rights, it is important for students to demonstrateBob Rudy Advertising Manager 
their concern over the loss. The Student Rights Forum is a Vol. XIII, No. 23 Thursday, September 28, 1978 
constructive, reasonable vehicle for demonstrating that support." 
~~~~P.O. BOX Q 
Editor's Note: The followlna Is a provided for my daughter. twelve inches of frozen snow would Editor's note: No letter can be copy of a letter sent to Edmund Farley basement is damp and be packed in front of the windows accepted for publication unless the Price, Director of Student Housing musty. Windows give little light at the start of the test.) Rescue author's name Is given. Therefore, at Notre Dame. and less air -a superb breeding efforts from the outside might the letter signed ''The Spirit of the 
ground for viruses and germs. An require blasting through concrete. CLC" will npt be considered for infrimary check will verify that the They are deep down inI Fires do publication wdess the author( s) Dear Editor: basement inmates of Farley have occur in college dormitories, in the contact Tht> Observer. 
Four weeks ago today my daugh­already been conspicuously repre-winter. There are no smoke ter, Kristin Neubauer, arrived sented on the hospital roster. And detectors in the Farley Hotel. at Notre Dame to begin her fall is just beginning. I would (and have) protested freshman year in college. We were I do not believe that the Farley against similar sub-standard hous­
POLICY 

disappointed, appalled, to discover Hotel would pass any respectable ing for convicted criminals. Never 
'i'he Observer encourages 


that she was to be housed in a fire protection inspection. Hallway did I imagine this kind of a 
comments. from its readers. Letters 
basement-not a basement apart­exists are reasonably close at hand. situation would arise in a private, 
may be mailed to P.O. Box Q, 
ment, but a real, dug-into-the­Smoke, heat and/or fire in the Catholic university to whom I 
Notre Dame, ln. 46556; or left at 
ground basement, that was not halls could render those exists paid-in-full, in good faith, site 
The Observer office on the third
designed for human sleeping useless. There is no escape from unseen, the August bill submitted 
floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
You, no doubt, have read the the windows. As I recall, the to me for my entering freshman. 
All letters submitted for publica­

clever letter composed by the bottom edge of each tiny window is Other universities do meet the 
tion must be typed and include the 
sixteen residents of the Farley approximately five feet above floor dormitory housing crunch without 
name, address and phone number 
Hotel (The Observer, September 7, level. For a test, let anyone • a resorting to means that endanger 
of the author. 'l1le Observer 
1978). As artfully articulate and housing administrator, a dean, a students' lives and health. I 
reserves the right to edit all 
well-written as that letter was, the professor, Joe Montana, any stu-believe that the University of Notre 
submissions for grammatical 
more serious defects of their hous­dent-attempt to get through one of Dame can also do so. But I have 
errors, length, and libelous state­
ing were passed over too lightly. Farley's basement windows in the been waiting for four weeksl 
ments. 
As a parent, I am genuinely few critical minutes necessary to Perhaps in October, "Respect 
Names cannot be withheld on 

concerned about the unhealthy and avoid death by smoke inhalation. (I Life" month, something will 
letters unless sufficient reason is 
unsafe accommodations which the am presuming that this exercise happen. 
presented for doing so. . 
.. ..... ,_, ,.,. _, .........,4 .. -.' .• ,............ .,
...Univeait;y.•of. biotre • .Dame .has . would be ~tlywnducted ~That-···· .·. · .· · · Roaemary·Neab'atlet 


. Ves he 
YE 
·Their light show was a complement to the concert, not a show in itself.' 
Yes came to Notre Dame last Friday night, and the reactions from the listeners and viewers are quite varied. Some feel the group, backed by its solid reputation, performed superbly, while others regret spending the time and money for the evening. 
Why the great degree in difference of opinion? One can only speculate, but time and place must be considered. After a hectic week and a disappointing start to the football season, the crowd, a mixture of students and South Bend residents, might not have been in the mood to sit through lon_g solos or to appreciate the group's blend of talents. They had either experienced the pure impact of Bruce Springsteen the week before or had been badgered by reports of his show, and their expectations might have been channeled along unappropriate lines. On the other hand, the music of Yes might have been the change needed to refresh some audience members. 
There is no absolute explanation; every­who attended the Yes concert has his own personal reaction and opinion. Those reading this feature and those who did not attend can just take these quotes for what they are--conflicting opinions from a diverse group of people who viewed the same event. 
Edited by Kar
'It was the best mediocre conCert lve ever seen.' 






------~ 

l 'There were complaints about the speakers being bad, but I sat in the third row and I could hear the instruments themselves, and they were great.' 
'My date wanted to leave in the middle of 
en caruso the concert, -
' ~hn Calcutt that's how much she disliked it.' 



could sit back and enjoy... It was listening to quality music , not~golng to a pep rally. • -. 

.1' 


Thursda , September 28, 1978 
Senate okays compromise 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The Senate handed President Carter the first major victory on his energy pro­gram in more than a year yesterday approving 57-42 a compromise billk to lift federal price controls from natural gas by 1985. 
The le-gislation, which the White House has depicted as the most important remaining part of the energy plan, now goes to the House. A battle also is expected there but supporters of the measures appear to have the upper hand. 
House leaders hope to combine the gas-pricing bill with a number of other, less controversial partsa of Carter's energy plan and pass the entire package just before the scheduled mid-October congres­sional adjournment. 
Carter expressed optimism the House would go along with the measure. "I think it proves to our nation and the rest of the world that we, in this government, particular­ly Congress, can courageously deal with an issue, and one that tests our national will and ability," he said. 
George H. Lawrence, president of the American Gas Associaton, said the Senate vote "is one more important step toward adopting a national energy policy which will provide U.S. consumers with suf­ficient supplies of gas energy." 
But James F Flug, director of Energy Action Educational Foun­dation, said in a statement: "Ifthis monstrosity ever becomes law it will be a disaster." 
Carter asked Congress in Apr1l 1977 to join him in declaring "the 

35th Annual 
HOLY HOUR PUBLIC WELCOME 
CELEBRATING THE PRESENCE-JESUS THE BREAD OF LIFE IN THE HOLY EUCHARIST 
Notre Dame A.C.C. Sunday, October 1, 1978 2:45p.m. Notre Dame Glee Club 
'Bishop John J. Dougherty Homilist 
moral equivalent of war" on the energy crisis by approving a pack­age designed to conserve scarce fuels by making them m~re expen­sive and taxing their inefficient 
use. 

The House passed most of what Carter requested in August 1977. But until yesterday's vote, that was the last congressional victory the Carter program emjoyed as the Senate began systematically dismantling the plan's major pro­visions. 
Senate passage of the gas­pricing bill followed an intensive White House lobbying effort. Administration officials protrayed the plan as crucial to U.S. energy policy and stability of the dollar. 
Supporters said the measure would allow enough new gas to be found to reduce oil imports by about 1.5 million barrels a day by 1985-going a long way to meeting the reduction of two million barrels a day Carter vowed at last July's economic summit in Bonn. 
However, opponents of the com­promise-a coalition of liberals who called it too costly for consumers and conservatives who complained it didn't deregulate quickly enough -claimed the measure would not · have any appreciable effects on either gas production or oil imports. 
Congressional economists esti­mate the proposal will cost con­sumers who heat with gas about $16 billion in higher gas bills through 1985. 
Supporters claim the measure will add about $25 a year to the average family's heating bill. Liberal opponents argue that the additional cost will be $100 or more Lake Marion and the St. Mary's Library provide a beautiful fall scene.
a year. 

Controversial Laetrile to be tested 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The National patients who used Laetrile, which 
Cancer Institute wants to test some claim is a cancer cure. Laetrile on several hundred The institute launched a nation­advanced cancer patients in an wide appeal for records · from effort to resolve "once and for aiJ" Laetrile patients last January. It the debate about the controversial got 93 responses, but only 22 substance, the institute's director provided all the necessary records 
announced yesterday. and involved patients who had used 
Dr. Arthur C. Upton said a only Laetrile. Of those 22, six human trial was justified in the cancer patients who used Laetril~ wake of a' recent, inconclusive showed improvement, nine stayea review of the medical records of the same, and seven got worse. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­

tration, which has led a federal fight against Laetrile, still must approve the Cancer Institute's plan to use Laetrile in the human experiment. FDA Commissioner Donald Kennedy said he did not believe the institute's review of the 22 cases "demonstrates any effec­tiveness of Laetrile." 
But Kennedy added, "there are other reasons that we all recognize that a controlJed clinical trial might be desirable and NCI has been persuaded by them.'' 
The FDA has been under pres­sure from Laetrile supporters who want the substance tested. 
Kennedy said the FDA would 
review the cancer institute's 
request objectively and decide ''as 
quickly as possible." 
Upton noted that proponents of Laetrile claimed 50,000 to 70,000 Americans have used the sub­stance, which is made from the pits of apricots and other fruits. 
By virtue of the fact that thou­sands of people are now receiving Laetrile and the fact that we have this evidence, inconclusive as it may be in humans, we can justify a trial to resolve the matter once and for all," Upton told 200o institute workers and reporters. 
The cancer institute's action comes IS ye~trs after it was first asked to test Laetrile in humans. Upton noted that repeated tests in animals have produced no evidence that Laetrile can reduce the size of tumors. 
But he noticed that the results of animal tests do not always hold true for humans. Upton said a minimum of 300 patients would be tested. He did not say they would all be terminal patients, but said 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4~l' I~II~ISI I~ JAZZ! ()r~e~lllze~tl()llcll rne:e:tlll~ f()r tile: (()lle:~lcltt? Je~zz ft:§tl~ctl 
Ia()() lllUI§clcll' Sf?()t. 1S 
~e~tli§i(e:llclf 
lctf()rtullt: StucJt:llt (e:lltt:r 

only those for whom all other therapies had been tried. 
Other institute officials said the tests would involve groups of IS to 30 patients with one of 10 different types of cancer. The tests would be conducted at major medical centers around the country where doctors normally try out new cancer treat­ments under contracts from the cancer institute. 
UW drive starts 
at Saint Mary's 
by Mary Jo ~lolland 
A dOQ.r to door fur.d raising drive for the United Way Campaign is planned for Saint Mary's students on October 1 through 5. The drive provides an ~' pportunity for stu­dents to make donations which fund a variety of social services in its activities. 
Students who donate one doiJar willrecciveawhistle while donors giving less t one dollar will receive a piece ..;f candy. 
Dorm competition will take place to help stimulate the drive. The progress will be recorded by ther­mometers in each dorm showing the percentage of student partici­pation in one dollar contributions. 
The dorm with the highest percentage of one dcllar contribu­tions will be awarded a plaque and an ice-cream party. 
Coordinators Mary Laverty and Mary Mullaney, along with faculty representative Professor Richard Pilger, said that they would like to see 100 percent participation from students and faculty this year. 
"We would like to see everyone give at least one dollar" Mullaney said. 

Thursday, September-=2=.!.B,:_:1:.:.9.:....71::.......____-..:~tr.:..h:.<e::;._,;::o=b:::;..;l8""-='rv;;..:_;:e=r'"--_1~1 
HPC scraps Homecoming 'royalty' 
by Brandy 1\ndrau.k 
Elections for Homecoming King and Queen were abandoned Tues­day night at the Hall Presidents Councii(HPC)meeting as a result of overwheimmg . negative feedback fttom the Notre Dame residents. "Regressive" was the recurring term used to describe the idea of homecoming "royalty." 
Dan Darfler, Holy Cross Presi­dent, commented that the presi­dents of the Notre Dame women's 
To second offense 
halls were the most opposed to the 
idea. -"They seemed to _feeJ that 
the competition would intensify the 
stereotyped Notre Dame-Saint 
Marv's women's ·rivalry," he said, "a lot of the hassle could have been avotded by surveying the student body prior to undertaking the 
election." 
Ellen Dorney, Badin Hall Presi­
dent, said that "Notre Dame is 
finally approaching the point where 
women are respected for what they 
are and competition for the queen detracted from any development in "no one would have done it except that direction.'' She claimed that 
as a joke and since that was the most of the women "took it as a 
case, we thought it best to drop it." joke" or were "very upset" at the idea. Michelle Kelly, Farley Hall Pre­
·...not wtended 
sident and chairman of the Woman's Council, said the consen­sus was that the idea of Home-• to be ge~~St ..: coming Queen and King was "childish and degrading." Kelley Jose Marrero, Pangborn Hall said that in Farley Hall, no. re-· President, said "everyone spouse was received in selection of laughed'' when the idea was section Queen representatives. presented to the hall. Marrero felt 
Former child molestor pleads guilty 
LOS ANGELES [AP]-One of nine men charged with an international child pornography and prostitution ring pleaded guilty yesterday to molesting an 8 year old girl. 
Thomas Nicholas Ltberto, 34, a Douglas Aircraft worker from near­by Downey, entered the plea in a cracking voice as he stood before Superior Court Judge Philip M. Newman. 
At the time of his arrest, Liberto was on probation from a 1977 child molestation conviction. . 
The charges against Liberto were 
Canoe float planned for Oct. 1 
A canoe float on the St. Joseph River from South Bend to Niles will 
_ be sponsored by the Michiana G~oup of the Sierra Club, Sunday; October 1. Anyone interested should contact Las Gaffner in Elkhart at 533-7315 or Bob Graham in South Bend at 272-2984. 
WSND to broadcast hockey games 
[continued from page 5] to late for the WSND-FM staff to prevent such intervention. Once a new staff took control of WSND-FM on April 1, 1978 , a decision was unanimously made to air the away hockey games. ''All misunderstanding between the administration and WSND-FM has now been cleared up," accor­ding to Kate Bernard, the station manager. An underwriter was found, Pabst Blue Ribbon Beer, and the Assis­tant Director of Student Activities, Fr. Mario Pedi, was informed of the board's decision. The new Vic-President for Student Affairs, Rev. John L. Van Wolvlear, and the University executive vice-president Rev. Edmund Joyce were also informed of the decision. Joyce is the official license-holder of the station. Van Tornhout said that "there has been no indication by the a4ministration that they object. The hockey games are listed in our program guide." WSND-FM is licensed as a non-commercial public broadcast­ing station. According to Paul Stauder, sports director for WSND-FM, "there is a demand for hockey." Some 2,000 people attend each 
N.D. 
hockey game. For many, going to an away game is not possible, hence the need for a radio broadcast. The AM station is only heard on campus. Since there are more hockey supporters from the South Bend community than the 

N.D. 
community it doesn't make sense to air games on the AM station. 


With a radius of 35 miles the staff of wsnd-FM feels that it has a responsibility to serve the public. That public has asked that away hockey games be broadast and WSND-FM will do so beginning Oct 27. 
the least serious of 43 counts in the indictment against all nine men. Six of the other defendants face trial Nov. 6 on conspiracy and child molestation charges. 
Lester L. Henry, 40, of Indiana­polis has also been arrested in connection with the case. How­ever, authorities are still seeking his extradition from Indiana. Extradiction is also been sought on a man from England. 
The indictment alleges the men kept a stable of children, aged 4 to 
14, who were rented out for involved with children," said prostitution and photographed for Deputy District Attorney James pornographic publications and Ferruzzo. 
movies. Liberto faces up to five years in a 
At yesterday's hearing, Newman state hospital or state prison. In allowed Liberto to remain free on exchange for his guilty plea, the $15,000 bail pending a hearing prosecutor agreed to dismiss a Nov. 1 to determine if the defen­conspiracy charge. dant is a mentally disordered sex Ferruzzo said Liberto will not be a offender. witness against the other 
''There is no question in my mind defendants. that he will be declared mentally "I don't think he'd be willing to disordered because of the circum­testify against his friends,'' he stances and the fact he was said. 
that the idea "was not intended to be detrimental or sexist." He pointed out that although the king and queen are "not essential" to a Homecoming event, most other college campuses still participate in the tradition. 
Rather than boycott the elec­tions, several halls were reported to have nominated various unlikely characters as a farce. Some nominated to the positions include the Zahm moose mascot, the Holy Cross hog, a roach from Badin and Farley's janitor. 
Saint Mary's hall presidents apparently were not approached with the proposed abandonment of the Homecoming royalty. ·Leanne Walsh, LeMans Hall President, said that "the Saint Mary's women were able to follow through with what they had agreed to do regarding the Homecoming elec­tions, and we railed to see why the Notre Dame girls were unable to fulfill their agreement." Saint Mary's section elections were held and all candidates resumes were submitted without incidence of rebellion or apathy. 
Joe Guckert, Homecoming chair­man declined comment on the matter. 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
BOW TO SAVE ON AUTO INSURANCE 
A GOOD DRIVING RECORD CAN LOWER YOUR PREMIUMS. SO CAN HIGHER DEDUCTIBLES. 
In many parts of the cc untry the average cost of car insurance has risen over 5( )% in the past five years. 
Liability insurance pro­tects you against the claims of others. Its cost, like that of any insurance, is based on what the insurance company has to pay in claims plus its overhead. And the cost of everybody's individual liabil­ity insurance is inflated by large court settlements and exaggerated claims. 
Although liability insur­ance is required by law in many states, in light of the trend toward higher settle­ments, you should be sure that your coverage is ade­quate. 
But in the "voluntary" parts of your car insurance­collision and comprehensive (fire and theft)-that cover physical damage to your own car, there are some things you can do to lower your insurance bill. 
Safe drivers pay lower premiums for both liability and collision coverage. In­surance rates are set that way because drivers with a good past history are less likely to have accidents in the future. Many insurance com­panies define "safe drivers" as those with two or less moving traffic violations and no "chargeable, at fault" ac­cidents within the past three years. Their premiums may be as much as 25% lower. 
You can often cut your premiums for collision and comprehensive by 25% to 50% by raising your deduct­ible. Many people still choose full-coverage comprehensive and $100 deductible collision 
. value of your car on the used­car market, and your own financial situation. If your car is more than five years old. it may not pay to buy any collision insurance. If you do have an accident, casualty losses over $100 that are not reimbursed by insurance coverage are tax deductible, in many instances, providing you itemize youf tax return. 
TYPICAL INSORANa PREMIUMS FOR AFULL-SIZE 1978 MODEL GM CAr 
Full-coverage comprehensive and $100 deductible collision  S200 deductible comprehensive and $500 deductible coUIIIon  
Standard  Sale Driver  SafeDrtwr  •  
ATLANTA  $267  $201  $111  
CHICAGO  $947  $711  $395  
LOS ANGELES  $476  $358  $197  
SANTA FE  $412  $311  $172  
WINNETKA. ILL.  $372  $280  $154  
(suburb of Chicago)  

···Insurance premiums are based on many factors. includ•ng your age. the kind ot car you own and where you live. Rates vary from company to company The figures above do not include liability coverage. 
coverage. That means they pay the first $100 on collision­related damages and the in­surance company pays the rest. But just look what hap­pens when you increase the deductibles to $200 on comprehensive and $500 on collision: In Los Angeles. for example, the typical annual premium for a safe driver will drop from $358 to $197. The higher the deductible, the lower the premium. (See the chart for more examples.) 
Of course, you assume more of the risk by choosing higher deductibles. It's a per­sonal decision that should be based on a thorough evalua­tion of the age of your car, the 
We believe that if you have enough information you won't have to spend as much money to own and maintain a car. And that'II be g\.xxl for you and good for us. 
This advertisement is part of 
our continuing effort to give customers useful infonnation about their cars and tntcks and ·the company that builds them. 
General Motors 
People building transportation to serve people 

,. 
12 the Ob88fY8[ Thursday, September 28, 1978 
;~~~~~~~~;;=~=-=-=-=-=-=-=-================================================~===---­
·l( 
i 
I 
l 
j 
J 
( l 
f 
1 } 

I 
Nowcomes Millertime. 
@1!178 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. • 
Helmet delay cuts 1-H football schedule 
by Robbie Moore 
Despite the recent delay in the kickoff uf the interhall football season, due. to a problem in the delivery of new helmets, the Department of Non-varsity sports has no intention of cancelling all of the games. Richard O'Leary, Assistant Director of Club Sports, stated yesterday that this year's schedule will h~ ve to be revised. A meeting of tearo captains will be held as soon as the Department receives news of its delayed ship­. nent of NCAA regulation football helmets. 
According to O'Leary, several options are open to team captains for rescheduling the games. 
If the teams elect to play longer into the season, they could play all presently scheduled games by pushing back the playoff date. If the teams prefer to play a short­ened season, they could limit the number of games to be played and still finish by the scheduled date. Or, they could hold some type of elimination tournament in order to determine which teams would go to .the fin:lls. 
The main problem standing ir: the way of rescheduling all of the games before the presently scheduled championship date are the two upcoming breaks--Mid­Semester and Tnanksgiving--which will eliminate five playing dates. 
The delays are due to a ruling made last year by the NCAA regarding safety regulations for football helmets worn while playing university sports. Team captains have been waiting since Sept. IS for a shipment of 320 football helmets which would comply with the new NCAA safety rulings. According to O'Leary, the entire shipment was 
USSR buys additional wheat 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The Soviet Union has bought an additional 100,000 metric tons of U.S. wheat, making the total 765,000 metric tons of wheat and corn ordered for the coming year, the Agriculture 
-Department said yesterday. 
In a related report, the depart­ment said world reserves of grain left over next summer will be even larger than was indicated last month. 
The latest sale raised to 200,000 metric tons the wheat Russia has bought for delivery in the third year of a long-term agreement to buy 
U.S. grain regularly. 
Previously, the Soviet Union bought 565,000 metric tons of corn for delivery during the agreement year that will begin Oct. 1. Under the pact, Russia must buy at least six million metric tons of wheat and corn combined each year. 
Purchases for this year totaled 
14.9 ,million metric tons, including 
3.5 million metric tons of wheat and 
11.3 million metric tons of corn. 
As customary, the department did not disclose the private export firms doing the business with Russia nor the terms involved. 
Meanwhile, the department's Foreign Agricultural Service said world crops of wheat and coarse grains such as corn and barley now are -::stimated at more than 1.13 billion metric tons, about 6 million more than forecast on Aug. 16. 
Production in 1976-77 totaled about 1.08 billion metric tons. A metric ton is 2,205 pounds. 
Allowing for use, the grain left over next July 1 now is expected to total about 177.5 million metric tons, up from 173.6 million pro­jected last month and last July 1's carryover of about 163.5 million metric tons, the report sai,:. 
due to arrive from the Wilson Manufacturing Company in time for the opening games. 
As of yesterday, only half of the helmets had arrived. O'Leary is expecting one hundred more of them to arrive today, with another shipment of 60 coming sometime in the near future. When the entire shipment is filled, there will be plenty of helmets to go arou · :d with, each team receiving ~6 helmets. 
In the meantime, all games mt. st be postponed as the department cannot be discriminatory by alloc.lt­ing equipment to some hall teams and not to others. 
Hall practices continue to be held, as team members refuse to give up hope. "The guys still w;,nt to play; they've put in too much time and hard work to quit now '' Paul Chervenak, Sorin Hall Sp<.'rts Commissioner, commented. 
O'Leary is hopeful that most of the details can be worked out tomorrow, if the shipment does indeed arrive today. 

Jim Bruns calibrates the vernier while Andy Blalock, Joe Cooler and Pierre Naayem guard against error. [Photo by Dave Rumbach] 


j., 1. the observer Thursday, September ~i 1978 

br Michael Molinelli 
'· 
r 
I 
;. 

JJH, YDU'V~ GDT ALol To 1-EA.RN 
,. 
,; 
Mardi Gras chairmen must attend meeting 
Cuban exile denies 'hit' plann~d for JFK 
WASHINGTON [AP)·A Cuban exile who once quoted a reputed organized crime chief as boasting that John F. Kennedy was "going to be hit," told White House investigators Wednesday that the term probably did not mean the president was marked for murder. 
But when committee lawyers questioned Jose Aleman, he acknowledged he was modifying the story about Kennedy being "hit" and said he feared for his safety. 
Aleman, who once fought with Fidel Castro's guerrillas, testified that he sold a hotel he owned in Miami and went into hiding after his initial story was published in 1976 in the Washington Post. 
Aleman attributed the statement on Kennedy's impending death to Santos Trafficante, a reputed Tampa, Fla., Mafia chief, during a meeting in which the two men discussed a business loan. 
Aleman said the meeting occur­red in June or July 1963 and that instead of talking about business, Trafficante talked for hours about problems he was having with the Kennedy administration's crack­down on organized crime. 
In his testimony, Aleman said he still thinks Trafficante said during 

ACROSS 
1 Wigwam 
6 Miss d'Orsay 
10 Emulates 6-Across 
14 1938 movie, "-.­Chicago" 
15 Horse color 
16 Mrs. David Copper­field 17 Increasingly near (3 wds.)20 1963 movie, "David 
and-" 
21 ----de cologne 
22 Tennessee power complex 
23 Tension (3 wds.) 
28 Bird ca 11 
29 1958 movie, "God's Little ----" 30 "-Haw" 31 Chinese port 33 "Three men in -" 35 More convinced 39 ----duck 40 Metric volume 42 Aswan's river 43 Indian state 45 Of an age 46 Nefarious 117 Blubber 

zation interested in having a booth should contact Bob Morin at 1209 before Oct. 2. 
Anyone with any questions should call Morin or John McAustin at 7820. 
Interested in technical crew? 
There will be a mandatory organi­zational meeting today for all those 111terested in working on the tech­nical crew for "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown," the ND Student Players' fall musical. The meeting will be at 7 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. 
At the meeting the set design and construction timetable for the play will be discussed. The meeting should not last longer than 30 minutes. 
•'You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" will be playing Nov. 9-12, and no previous experience is necessary to work on the stage crew. For further information, contact Reed King at 6718. 
Gilligan speaks in Hayes-Healy 
John J. Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and a 1943 Notre Dame graduate, will discuss "Program priorities for the Agency for Inter­national Development in the Third World" during a lecture tomorrow at 11:10 a.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. The talk is sponsored by the College of Business Admini­stration and is open to the public. 
Gilligan presently serves as administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Devt;lopment in Washington, D.C. 
THENAZZ IT'S LIVE!!!! 
THURS: MARK PRUS AND FRIENDS 
9• ???(lite jazz) 
FRI: 'DISCO AT THE NAZZ' 
(if that's what you're into •.• ) SAT: GREG HULL 9:30-??? (12 string guitarist) 
collegiat-e-=-c-.~-o-s_s_w_o_n---=d::;;--. 
the meeting that Kennedy "is going to be hit.'' But he said he did 
not  think  at  the  time  that  
Trafficante  was  referring  to  a  
murder plot.  

He quoted Trafficante as saying at one point that Kennedy would not remain president, and Aleman said he replied that he thought otherwise. "He said, 'Jose, you don't understand me. He's not going to be re-elected. He's going to be hit," Aleman testified. But Aleman then said he thought at the time that Trafficante meant that Kennedy would be "hit" with "a lot of votes for the Republican Party or something like that. 
That was IS years ago,'' Aleman said. "I think that was the wording he put. I am not positive about it." 
Under intensive questioning by committee counsel Gary Cornwell, Aleman said the newspaper article was "out of context in some ways" by suggesting the reference to "hit" meant Kennedy was a possi­ble assassination target. 
Cornwell then read to Aleman a staff report quoting him astellingan investigator that he • 'was given the impression that he (Trafficante) knew Kennedy was going to be killed." 
,. 
54 Tremb1 i ng 

55 Author of old ·~. 
56 Actor ,Greene 
61 Youth group 
62 Chemical suffix 
63 Once named 
64 Prefix: self 
65 French possessive 10 Hubbub 11 -Mesa 12 Famous fountain 13-wrap 18 Knave 19 Ancient instruments 23 Milan's "La -" 24 Spanish man's name 25 Mr. Shaw 26 Nuclear particle 27 What old grads do 32 Baker's ingredient 34 Actor Neville ­36 Unmatched 37 Nobel prize-winner 

-Root 38 Take ten 41 Emulated Romeo 44 Emulate Minnie 48 Zephyr 50 George Best's sport 52 One of Santa's 
reindeer 53 Rocket stage


! 
I .--" 
r 
There will be a mandatory meet· ing for all Mardi Gras hall booth chairmen, architects, and raffle ticket charimen on Monday, Oct. 2 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. 
Those attending are asked to come with ideas for their booth and what hall they would like to work with. The main topics at the meeting will be booth themes and the pairing of halls. The theme for this year's Mardi Gras is "Once upon a Classic." 
Any club, class~ or other organi-
Circle K meets at dinner 
The Notre Dame Cirde K Club will be holding its first meeting of the year tonight at 5:30 in the Faculty Dining Room in the South Dining Hall. All interested indiv­iduals are invited to attend. 
Circle K is a community service organization affiliated with Kiwanis International. 
49 Yoko, et al. 51"So there!" 52 Mythological twins 
{3 wds.) 57 Exclamation of disgust 58 2.0 grade-point average 59 Environmental 
science {abbr.) 60 Luxury ( 3 wds. ) 66 Squid-like 67 -defense 68 Come next 69 Harry Belafonte 
song 70 Fencing foil 71 "The defense -" 
DOWN 

1 Spasm 2 Make bigger 
(abbr.) 3 Popular hangouts 4 Famous cow 5 Macedonian city 6 "-Diavolo" 7 Charged particle 8 Type of jeans 9 One way to pay 
{ 2 wds. ) 



NOTICES Wa_nted: Organizations desiring $$$tor therr treasury. Gain by selling visors at Purdue game. Ace 234-1720. Gay Students of Notre Dame Gay Information Write P.0. Box 206 Get happy Friday at Pandora's inaugural Happy Hour. 112 price special on used books from 3-6 p.m. Pandora's 233-2342. CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard or soft lens supplies. Send for free iIIustrated catalog. Contact Len.s Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Arrzona 85011. Special Discount to all NO and SMC students on automotive parts. All you need is your I 0 card. HOFFMAN BROS. AUTO ELECTRIC 1101 E. Madison So. Bend Organizational Meeting Society for Jungian/Archetypal PsychoI­ogy. Sunday, October 1, 7:30 P.M. Wilson Commons TYPLING DONE MY HOME. FAST, ACCURATE, REASONABLE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PHONE 272-7866. LOST & FOUND Lost: from black jacket in Stadium Photo ~eck Brown framed prescription glasses rn brown case. Reward. Call Chris Robins WN DU 233-7111. Lost: Gold bracelet in or around ND Math building. Pat 4-1-5425. Lost: yellow and black umbrella in South Dining Hall. 272-1204. Lost: light blue warmup jacket in front of Morrissey Hall. If found please call 3679. Found: Pair of glasses behind Stepan Center. Photo-gray with brown frames. Contact the Observer and identify them and they're yours again. Found: 1 student season football ticket. Call and identify 3441. Lost: Mens's black billfold outside O'Shaughnessy on Tues. Sept. 26. Need desperately. If found call 233-8622. Reward. WANTED Need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Bill 8862. Need Purdue tic~ets. Call 8928 or 8911. -Need 2or 3 GA Purdue. Call Barb 8038. Desperately need 2 GA "urdue tickets. Call Jeff 1479.  Need GA's to Pitt. Money no Call Tom 2n-1011. Need GA tix for Purdue & Pitt. Joe 1478. Addressen Wanted Immediately! at home-no experience necessary-excel­lent pay. Write American Service, 8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX 75231. Wanted: one studeant football ticket for Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243. Help, I need Purdue tickets!$ Call Anne 4236. Need Student ticket for Purdue. Will Pay Well. 3508. Need 1or 2GA Purdue tickets. Money no Problem. Call Tom 3010. Needed: Purdue tickets!! Call 5754. Sue. Pay Bucks. Desperately need 2 GA tickets Tennesse and 5 others for any game. Call John at 6934. HELP WANTED Station Attendant needed. Experience preferred. Evenings and weekends. Apply in person. Mike's Maple Amoco, 18492, St. Rd. 23. I need 5 GA Miami tickets. necessarily all together]. Call John at 1991. Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Chuck 289-6721. Needed Purdue GA tickets. Call 8432. LSAT Tutor wanted to teach classes. Excellent pay. Call collect. (317)-463-7541. Needed Purdue GA tix. Call John 1874. Wanted: Tickets to any and all remaining home games. Call 3498. Ask for Marty or Mark. Want Pitt GA tix. Call Herman 1398. Wante~: 2 Purdue GA for my parents, who thrnk I already have them. Call Brad at 3504. Need 2 GA Pitt tix badly. Call 289-8657. I will pay someone excellent money for 2 Purdue GA's. Call me now at 8518. Need 1 Purdue ticket. Student or Please call Jeff at 1000. Will pay$$. Need 4GA Purdue tickets. Call Jeananne 6561. Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Herman 3549.  
-Need up to 10 Purdue GA tickets. Please call Tim or Joe at 1850 or 1775. Thanks.  Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home football game. CAll Mike 7838.  
Need 8 GA Purdue tickets. Call Ruth 7136.  Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Purdue game. Call Mike 7838.  
Need 4 Purdue tickets. Tim 3646. Needed: 2or 3GA Purdue tix. Call Mike 3003. Need 1 Student ticket for Purdue. John 8549. Help me prove that we have abetter team than Northwestern. I need two Purdue GA or Stud\nt tickets for doubting friends. Bob 717. Need two GA Purdue tickets. For a lifelong friend plus cash. Call1702' Need ride to Cleveland Fri. Sept. 29. Will help with expenses. Call Ray 272-5337 after 11:00 P.M. ----------------­Wanted: Need one student ticket for Purdue game. Call Pete 8795. Need Volunteers to sell Tennessee GA tix. Call Chris 1764. Help! Need GA for Pitt. Will buy or trade student pass to any of the remaining home games. Call Rose, 1320. Sis & cuz want to see Purdue Boil! Call Ken 3597. Needed Desperately: 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Will pay good bucks. Leslie 4996. Sister & fiance need 2 tickets for MichiganState. Call Anne 6816. Need two GA Purdue tickets. Call Mark at 6718. Mom and Dad desperately need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Dan 8252. Need GA Purdue tix. Steve 8422. Need 4 GA's to any home game. $$Andy 289-9498. Need Purdue tix. student or GA. Call 1842 I need GA's or Student trckets for Purdue game Please help! Call Mike 1219. -.. ~ . .........:..~_,.,­··~ ...·., .. ........... -.  BIG BUCKS'! Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call Walt 1586. Needing Purdue tix for family just off the farm. 255-325. Need two GA tickets to Pitt game Call Pete 1460. I need one student Purdue ticket. John 1044. Need GA tickets for Purdue. Call 8685 Need 2 or 4 GA tix for Purdue. 1610. I need 4 GA Purdue tickets. I can't pay alot, but will listen to all offers. appreciate any help, thanks, John (283) 1044. Wanted: Experienced male or Bartenders, Waiters or Waitresses, also Dishwashers at the University Club. Come in person or call 7093. Desperately need 4 GA tix for Pitt game. Will pay top$$. Call Mike 8422. HELP WANTED ANASTASIOS RESTAURANT 1161 S. Main St. Call: 234-3258. Welcome ND-SMC students! Wanted: 2-4 GA tix for Purdue. Please help! I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731. Need 1-3 GA. tickets for Purdue. Call Jim 6939. Need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Call John 234-1821. Wealthy Father needs 2-4 GA's Purdue Call Mark 8605. I need 2GA tix for Miami. Call Bi113169. Need 2or 4 GA Purdue tix. Will pay$$$. Call Tim 288-2773. Wanted: Purdue GA tix. Big Bucks Available. Call Chris 4578. ... _.......... _.. _ ~ --­···­-.. -----­ 
Mikey C. What's ajunior doing taking Emil? Don't study too hard tonight. We'll be having 


·--------------------------­
object!! Need two GA Purdue and Miami tickets. Call Joan 1293. 
Work 

·-·--·. 
Need two GA tickets to Tennessee. Call Tony 6718. 
Need 1 Purdue Student or GA ticket' Please call Linda 4-1-4614. 
Need many Purdue tickeats. (sorry: GA's onely for all pessimists). Call1419. The money will be as good as the tickets. Ask for Joe or Ralph. 
Help me prove to my father the YALE 
grad. that we can play football too! Need 
2 GA Purdue tixs. Call Bill at 1763. 
Need GA Pitt tix. Call Armand 1484. 
Want tix to Pitt. Tennessee. Call Steve for 1478. home 
Lane 
[not 
small 
Ken 
GA. 
Call 
As~ for 
Mike 
I'd 
female 
for 
". -~"': 

Wanterl: 2 Purdue tix.  Call Higgs 4578.  
--·  
FOR SALE  

Cne Purdue Stude 1t ticket for sale. $10. (ALL John 1652. 
~ Dfaculty member sell ling 1970 Chrysler E:cell. running cond. Roomy. $850. 2·S8-6013. 
DOES YOUR WARDROBE HAVE THE 
BACK~O~CHOOLBLUES? 
Dress it up with 14-18 K fine gold jewelry! Call Marilyn for a display of wxquis!te chains, bracelets, rings, 'etc ... 3848. 
'78 Jeep CJ7 Renegase, 10,000 miles. 289-9819 or 233-8182. 
'75 Mustang II, Mach I. V6, 4 Speed, Stereo, $2400, 289-9818 or 233-8182. 
'76 Mustang II, Cobra II. V8, 4 <>reed Stereo, under 4000,289-9818 or 233-8182 
. '76 MGB. 22,000 miles. under $4000 289-9818 or 233-8182. 
1970 VW convertible. Extra Sharp. Rebuild engine and transmission. 277-4082. 
1970 Fiat 124 Sports Convertible. Very good condition throughout. 277-4082. 
PERSONALS 

C. S. 
Thanks for a fantastic 6. Love always. GH 
Ravishing Aphrodite sought to accom­
pany humble adonis to Aerosmith concert 
Must have strong Dionysian Proclivities. Call after 11 :30 P M., explaining why you qualrlfy. 3748. 
Hey Cheeseburger. Aren't factories romantic? By the way.what was your wish? 
To JoaLl.!l.'e, Julie, Mary,_ the dunes, the stars, the railroad tracks a bottle of wine and a 12 o'clock curfew.' We're so ashamed'! 
Mike G  
Happy  Birthday  Have fun.  
Most of my love  
Annette  

Yes girls. Mike Carpenter is ticklish' (are we gonna die''!) 
a party for  sure.  and we'll talk to  you 
later.  
TTT  

Dear M & M, So you finally_ made it. even though you 
may not look rt.  Happy Birthday  Love CAB  
Mike, Happy 18th!  Love.  

Humphrey and Mary Eunice 

Mike-my cne and only ten.  Happy 18th.  
All my love.  
Cynthra 

PS Thanks for Sunday nitei 
Dear Mike Kelley. Happy Birthday' I also give you a 10' Lots of Love. Kath 
Happy Birthday to special friend' .. Love. Miss Piggy 
~ 

N.D. Meet you at Senior Bar Happy Hour 4-7 Frr 
Luscious 

The African Queen Homecoming Dance rs Oct 14 . Can you bear with us long enough to frnd out who Skipper & Freddy 
are. 
Is it true that the rooms on first floor Stanford are full ot vroratrng bean bag chairs? S & M tOday reveal<; another seamy secret! 
Thursday, September 28, 1978 the observer 15 
Senior Fellow sought 
. 

by Kathy Rosenthal 
Nc-minations for Senior Fellow are tentatively ~et for Oct. 5 and 6. 
accotding  to  Tom  Mielenhausen.  
ch •..irman  of  the  Senior  Fello\\  
Committee.  Nominations  can  be  

i 
turnt·d in at booths in the Huddle. first rloor Lafortune. Senior Bar. or eitht r dining hall. G<ry Fair. Mielenhausen's co­
' 

chairman stressed that he present­ly is concerned with selecting the Sfni,,r Fellow Committee. Accord-tn • to Fair. people are needed to ·vurk on screening. publicity. in.mces. elections. and planning the ')enior Fellow day at Notre Datr.~-. "Anvone interested in helping st lUid call Tom Mieknhausc.· or me" urged Fair. 
.. A Senior Fellow is a man or worr·an whose con tri bu tions to socit ty clearly reflect the aspira­t:.m~ of the se·rior class." explain-c I Mielcnhau~en. A luncheon. a speech. visits to Senior Bar. and a tlinner are typical events during the Senior Fellow's visit. Other activi­tir:s will be planned relative to the St:nior Fellow·~ accomplishments. 
The visit traditionally takes place tn the Spri 1g semester. Garv Trudeau. Rody Blier. and Richard Lugar were , ht> last three Fellows. 
;Fair saic that) the group of 
~ 
~\S'~ 
~~:~~~ 
To: JCMG Now that you· re 18 you are one of the few one of the proud. one of the draftable. From: P.P.I.E.W and Co. 
Mary Kerr loves Gary "Big Oaddy"G. 
La Pace. Dinner Friday or Sat? Yes. I'm finally# payrng off my bet. Check the dining hall menu before. Oh yes. by then the crisis should be over Thanks' 
The Dieter 

CHUCK*CHUCK*JOE*OAVE*GREG 
AND JIM: Just want to thank the 704 Cnr'"lv ~unch for that wild toga party srn(e noone ·)lse 
deemed it necessary  Never :;ee11  to a  
better one  and eagerly awa1t your  next  
crazy endeavor.  

Afect10nately. Chuck,Chuck,Joe,Dave,GregandJim 
There rs meeting of the NO Ham Radio Club on Sunday nile 7:00 on the 12th floor ot Grace. Come join us' 
Thanks Scoop. I'd like it in blue. 
Dear Joe. Your dreams came true. Michigan won and you spent the weekend wrth three grrls who love you. Can't wait to see you next semester. 
Love. Lisa. Nancy & Margie

P.S You forgot to alphabetize us. 
Some wildandcrazykindaguys say "Saturday nile". live from Campus View (5 kegs) 
AHention Saint Mary's Eaten: Do not drink milk, juice or eat ice cream on Monday. Wednesday or Friday under penalty of ptomaine 
SAGA 

no:ninees will be screened down to "about 25." An election from am·mgst those candidates will follow on De~. I. The Senior Fellow will be annollnced by Feb. I. "Seniors sh.)rld understand the elections are an advisory sort of thing. and we will do the best we can to follow their recomendations. We are hoping for a big turnout at nomination tin1e because that will give us a better idea of who the class wants." Miclenhausen said. 
·"The winner of the election is not always t.1e Senior Fellow. because he/she might not be able to come. or hc1she might require a fee." Miclcnhauscn continued. 
Travel. hotel and meal expenses arc paid for. but no additional monetary compensation is award~d. T,·aditionally a plaque has bu~n given to the Senior Fellow to ..:ommemorate the visit. 
"It's not a popularity contest." ·tressed Mielcnhausen. "the ~)enior Fellow must meet qualitica­lions." The nominees must ha\·e t xrcnded themselves in a particular I cld and must offer some inspira­t on to the class. Mirlenhauscn 
Scully opens 
lecture series 

!continued from page 31 task. '"You have to pay your dues." she said. "You have to attend boring meeting and do embarrass­ing things like auction off mer­chandise on T.V." As part of her .. dues p~ying" she attended a number of cocktail parties because "that is also expec­ted of you. You have to be pleasant. be sociable. and establish your credentials.·· 
..-
Scully recalled that after taking the Port Authority position a repor­ter asked her why why-a nun­should accept the appointment. 
"Since you are a religious you aren't expected to be sensible. And if you're a woman you arc certainly not expected to be sen­sible." she mused. 
Scully told the audience that she learned how to get attention and gain respect through her involve­ment in the corporate world. "You set your own agenda early and you carry it off. You set the tone early by speaking out early. If you wait too long for some glorious moment to speak no one will take notice." 
She advised students who will be 

free of charge. . • 
~·

.. ~-•...• -·-~ • --------------J B_------------. . 
.,. ..-_..,.-... _.--..... --. ·---. ---.... ---------------------. --­
-'Refres11mcrifs' >\·ill be ser\·e(f'" 
Miss "M.B." Barrett. Second City was definitely a first for me. You really are a "Golden Bear". I'd love 
to do it again sometime.  It really was an  
honor  
The Kidnapper  

Anyone wishing to become a fly woman call Marie 5438 
0 What is an Urban Plunge? 
A. Something very much worth looking into. 
Wanted 2 GA tickets to Pittsburgh. Call N1ck collect at (315) 457-5586 
seeking jobs with corporations like Gulf to first of all "find out if it is a plal"C you want to work for. Ask about any legal trouble they may have had. Ask about their moral standing. ask if younger members 
Last day for GRE 
registration 

Today is last da\· to regi..,ter for the Gr~•duatc Record Examination (G R E>. Tht..' late regi..,t ration deadline is one Wl'ek late~. 
Michiana Club meets tonight 

The Michiana Group of rhe Sierra Club will hold its September .... meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in tht.• basement communitv room of the St. .Joseph Bank,\: T~ust Companv. Town L\: Cou n trv Bra n~o:h . .ltll' East McKinley. South Bend. 
A Sierra Club slide show. ··Alaska: The Great Land." will be shown. Dr. Joseph Colbmu:.n. Hoosier Chapter Chairpt.·rson will lead discussion on the Alaska National Interest Lands Act and answer questions about Alaska.
I 

The meeting is open to the publi'-· 
1' 
' 



.. 
\. 
(
. 
r 
I 
I
I I 
16 the observer Thursday, September 28, 1978 
, 
NO's Lovejoy emerges as soccer superstar 
by Ray O'Brien happened." for a player that was out running have to look to in a crucial honors or playing for national Sports Editor What did happen was one goal in around kicking a ball for the situation," he explains. "If anyone teams. What I would like is an the first game followed by two Keenan interhall soccer team last got hurt it would not cripple the NCAA bid and to get to travel with 
The American society is so ac­scores in the second game sparking year. team. We have a very deep bene h the team." customed 1to flashy, outspoken ath· the Irish to two opening wins. "I didn't try out last year because it and when we substitute it helps In the immediate present the goals letic stars these days that when a Since then the goals have kept just took up too much time and I rather than hurts." are even clearer. "Right now we quiet, modest, unassuming walk­coming; almost to the point of wanted to get my feet wet," said It would seem that Lovejoy's have to beat Dayton and beat ing success story comes around you embarassing the Seattle, Lovejoy. However, the interhall approach to each game would have Indiana at ·Indiana," emphasizes are taken by surprise. Wash., !lative. fields became his proving ground to change now that he is the Lovejoy. "Indiana is ranked very 
Well, surpriseI Meet Kevin "I am embarassed by my success as he continued. "Rich Hunter saw leading scorer and in a starting high nationally and a win over them Lovejoy. Now Lovejoy is no to a certain extent," offers Lovejoy. me play when he refereed one of position. He claims this isn't the would really help chances of All-American linebacker or even a "The thing that bothers me a little our games and invited me out for case. "When I went into that first -making it to post season play. seven-foot center, but 15 soccer is that people now ask if I've scored the team last spring." game I was as confident as I am Some of the teams we have played goals in eight games is not some­and if I say "no" they think I Lovejoy's come a long way in such now. Nothing has changed. It's are not that good and the play at thing to ignore. Although that is haven't done anything. But there's a short time and even he has no simply if the shot is there I take it.'' the Dayton and Indiana level are a what Lovejoy is doing about it. You so much more to the game than explanation for his overnight With two years of varsity soccer lot more intense; but I think we will see, the most surprised person scoring.'' success. under a growing program, the be ready for them.'' about Lovejoy's success is Kevin Nevertheless, the scorers in this "I don't know why I've scored so future looks bright for the Irish's With an attitude like that, Kevin himself. world get the attention. Since many goals,'' explains the center­Lovejoy. But the slender athlete's Lovejoy is an asset to the team 
While the Notre Dame soccer Lovejoy is not accustomed to this forward. "I'm sure the fact that I expectations haven't been altered before he ever puts his foot to the team will ·not have any games new position, he is hesitant about have better teammates has a lot to by a few accurate shots. "I have ball. Once that happens the nationally televised this year or in dwelling on any goals. do with it.'' no thoughts about All-American opposition better look out. the near future, they have won "I played soccer in high school and Lovejoy indicates that his success their first eight games increasing my team made it to the state finals might have something to do with their winning streak to 24 games my junior and senior years but the other team's inadequacies up to which is presently the longest there were better players than me this point. But he feels that the soccer winning streak in the nation. on that team and there are better team is improving nevertheless. 
Credit Kevin Lovejoy with a lot of players on this team," adds Notre "The opposition has not been real that success but don't go bothering Dame's leading scorer. "I might tough. But we've developed a him about it. have scored eight goals my senior killer instinct by now and our "I never really expected to score year.'' all-around hustle and instinctive 
J that often," explains the sopho­The 15 Lovejoy has already is a re­play have improved." more business student. "In fact I cord for most goals scored in a This unassuming goal scorer is not didn't even start the first two season as the Irish enter their the least bit ready to take credit for games and I just went in and second season as a varsity sport. the 8-0 record. "We don't have played and whatever happened-That is quite an accomplishment one outstanding individual that we 

Before Congress 
NCAA president testifies 
r 
. 
WASHINGTON [AP] -J. Neils such a fundamental change in the Thompson. Thompson, president of the Nat­current NCAA procedures. Under current NCAA rules, once ional Collegiate Athletic Associat­''I say this because we believe the NCAA infractions committee ion, told Congress on Wednesday such a change wpuld totally under­finds a university guilty of a that universities shoul<\ continue to cut the foundation upon which the violation, it imposes a penalty. If 

have the responsibility to declare NCAA rests; that is, it is the the penalty decrees that an athlete an athlete ineligible and not place institution irc;elf which is respons­should be declared ineligible, the that burden on the NCAA. ible for policing its own affairs, and university must do it. 
Thompson said current NCAA it is only when that institution fails However, in some cases, a rules and procedures gives that to do so that the NCAA enforce­university has refused to do so and responsibility to NCAA member ment mechanisms come into play. was given a harsher penalty for not 
schools "and it is equally clear that "Such a fundamental change obeying NCAA rules. this responsibility is simply one would, in my judgement, inexor­Rep. Bruce F. Vento, D-Minn., facet of the fundamental commit­ably lead to a 'catch-me-if-you-can' brought up the case of the Univer­ment of NCAA membership, name­attitude on the part of some sity of Minnesota which refused to 
ly that each member institution has institutions, coaches and student­declare three baske.tball players, primary responsibility for carrying athletes, and this kind of attitude in including star Mychal Thompson, 

., 
I' out the NCAA substantive rules." turn will inexorably lead to the ineligible.
ll 
Thompson said the NCAA necessity for an even more dram­Thompson, a civil engineering'j Council, discussing the issue last atic expansion in the NCAA en­professor at the University of month, is "strongly opposed to forcement machinery,'' said Texas, argued that the school 
· l I 
should have ruled the athletes ineligible and then appealed the case to the NCAA Council, the policy-making body, which is the
New York's Guidry 
prescribed administrative proced­
by Paul Mullaney Irish ahead, 3·1, at the end of the 
ure. 

Sports Writer first 45 minutes of play.
Subcommittee Chairman John 
The second half totally belonged 
Moss, D-Calif., shot back: "You're
needs more rest 
If all good things must indeed to the hosts, as Albion goaltenders 
placing a real burden on an 
come to an end, coach Rich Hunter were unable to stop six of the 16
institution. They must rely on a
New York AP-Ron Guidry's only of 26 decisions. With one excep­and his Irish soccer team don't Irish shots on goal in,the stanza. 
decision previously made and dic­
weakness seems to be that he has tion, every start has been with four seem to be the least bit worried. Joe Ciuni started the second half proven ineffective on three ·days' or five days' rest. His last victory, tated to the institution." The second-year varsity hooters scoring for the Gold and Blue,
Thompson: ''The institutions
rest, and the New York Yankee a two-hitter against Cleveland on kept right on rolling yesterday by knocking home a goal at the 2:40 
ask for it.'' He had previously
ace's stamina might be tested Sunday, came on three days' rest. defeating Albion College, 9-1, for post-intermission mark. 
testified that all the rules are voted
should the team make the playoffs But in his previous assignment, their eighth win in as many games After an 18 -minute lull in the 
at the annual NCAA convention.
and then the World Series. against Toronto, Guidry was and their 24th straight triumph. action, Finnegan's second goal
Moss: ''If they want to commit
Guidry, 5-foot-U and 160 pounds, yanked after surrendering six runs started a scoring spree that ended
Although the final score was
mayhem, then damn will let them. 
generates enormous power and in I 2-3 innings. four scores and 17 minutes later. 
quite lopsided, the Irish were given
speed from his wiry frame. He "I didn't really do anything in Ifthe law permits it, then the law is Nick Schneeman, Tom Crotty,
an early scare by their Michigan
extends himself on every pitch, so Toronto, so I really can't count that a damn fool. Bill Wetterer and Roman Klos each 
visitors. Notre Dame captain Jim
"Your authority does not give
much so that he needs four days to as three days' rest," said Guidry added scores as the Irish walked
Sabitus was the key to the first
you license to go to excessives
recuperate. Tuesday night. "I prefer four away with a 53-4 goal advantage
score of the game when his clearing 
against the laws and conventions of
Last year, Guidry was the days." over their eight opponents of the
pass at 13:34 of the game inadver­
this country. You might invite
Yankee's best pitcher, finishing But what if he is needed in a year. 
with a 16-7 record. He beat crucial game? Could he pitch on some people at the annual convent­tently sailed past Irish goalie Brian Hunter was pleased with hisCullather into the wrong goal. 
ion to read the Constitution of the·
Kansas City on a Thursday in the short notice? team's performance in the final 80 American League playoffs, firing a "I prefer four," he reiterated. United States as well as the The 1-0 Albion lead marked the minutes of play. "We didn't play three-hitter. When the playoffs "I could pitch on three if I have to. constitution of the NCAA." first time all season that the Irish well in the early going,'' he 
went to the decisive fifth game on But I'm not really thinking about Thompson was the first NCAA had trailed at any point in a game. admitted. "They pressured us Sunday, Yankee Manager Billy representative to testify before the Things grew increasingly scary
that.'' greatly. But after the first ten 
Martin called on his slender left­Already it appears that Manager subcommittee, which has been for the Irish as Albion goalie Scott minutes we played well." bander. Bob Lemon, who refused to discuss investigating whether the NCAA Williams turned away the first 14 They played so weif. in fact, 
Guidry said at the time that he the Guidry situation, has shuffled policies violate antitrust laws and shots headed toward the Stepan that Hunter labeled this game as didn't know if he could manage the Catfish Hunter, Ed Figueroa and whether the penalties assessed to Field net. It was after save number "the best overall team game we've assignment, but would try his best. the rest of his pitching rotation to member schools, athletes and 14 when Kevin Lovejoy decided to played this year. We needed a 
His best, with two day's rest, was make Guidry available for a possi­coaches are fair and equitable. do something about the game's game like this before facing our not typical Guidry. He was chased ble one-game playoff against outcome. next three opponents." after 2 1-3 innings, yielding three Boston. Guidry was scheduled to Pep rally-­It wasn't until the 39th minute of Purdue will challenge the Irish at runs on six hits. pitch Friday night against play when Lovejoy took Tim Cartier Field Friday at 8 p.m. 
I !·'' 
I Because he pitched on that Cleveland but, it was announced Nauman's pass and dented the net before Hunter and Company travel 
Be There!
I : Sunday, Guidry dido't tak~ the Tuesday, that he was moved up a behind Williams. Realizing that a to Dayton on Sunday. Last year the
)li:-mound against Los Angeles in the day and will start Thursday against Join the Notre Dame band and 1-1 deadlock wouldn't suffice, Irish opened their initial varsity\I I World Series until Game 4, six days Toronto. cheerleaders today for a special Lovejoy waited two minutes and 19 season by tying the Flyers, 3-3.l ~ later. Well-rested, Guidry won on Assuming the Yankees win the "BEAT THE BOILERMAKERS" seconds before teammate Bill They then lost to Saint Francis 

' ;~ a four-hitter. It \Vas his last AL East without going to a one· pep rally. Everyone is to assemble Murphy set him up for the decisive before winning the last 16 games of J ' appearance in the Series. The game playoff, then Guidry would at 5:30 p.m. in front of goal of the game. the season. Yankees won it in six games. be able to start the AL playoff O'Shaughnessy Hall before moving Less than three minutes later A week from this Friday the Irish This season Guidry has been a opener in Kansas City Wednesday to football practice at Cartier Field. Terry Finnegan scored his first of will travel to East Lansing to face dictator ~,-. •he mound, winning 23 night, Oct. 4. Bring signs, banners and a friend. two goals in the contest to put the Michigan State. 



