.. -..... 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Thursday, March 9, 1978
Vol. XII, No. 100 
SBP candidates make final appeals
by PhH Caeldey the group next year.'' Senior Staff Reporter Schlageter commented, "If we have funds, seeing as we are a 
Student Body President candi­leading Catholic university, we dates Andy McKenna and Mike . have an obligation towards Right­Schlageter, who will face each to-Life." But allocation of funds to other in a run-off election today, the group would depend on the made their final appeals to the number of organizations, such. as student body last night in a radio CILA, and the Hunger Coalition, forum broadcast over WSND AM. which apply for funds, he said. The forum, held in LaFortune Asked about the committee Ballroom, lasted thirty minutes and being formed by Dave Bender to was moderated by Student Body evaluate the Observer, Schlageter President Dave Bender. said, "The Observer is operated on 
The candidates responded to student funds, and therefore questions from Bill Kresse, news students should have the right to director for WSND AM, and Rick make recommendations to the Kresse and Paul Weithman, senior paper." He felt, however, that the staff reporter and staff reporter at average student didn't know WSND. Topics of concern included enough about the operation of the the candidates' opinions on Univer­newspaper to demand certain sity workers' rights to unionize, changes. their stands on allocation of funds Schlageter said he would keep to Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right­the evaluation committee as an to-Life organization, the Observer effective body to make recommen­evaluation committee and the dations, and would additionally methods by which they will choose consult "outside professionals" on SBP candidates Mike Schlageter and Andy McKenna respond to questions during last night's a cabinet. the matter. WSND forum. [Photo by Beth Cutter] 
Bill Kresse asked both candi­McKenna said he saw merit in dates what position they held on making an evaluation of the news­the recent attempts to unionize paper, adding that it is good for any made by University workers, parti­news media to receive outside 
SMC student government tickets 
cularly the 24 groundskeepers. evaluations of itself. In view of the McKenna state, "It's important for unique position the Observer holds Notre Dame as a Catholic univer­on campus, as the sole publication 

highlight platforms during Forum 
sity to respect the rights of workers of its type, it is important that the -by Molly Woulfe Tuohy, an advisor to the current ticket include a "Professional to unionize,'' adding that students paper be evaluated, McKenna Staff Reporter SBP, was president of the class of Week" where alumnae would and the SBP shoul take an interest said. 
'79 both her freshman and sopho-lecture students on how to succeed in the issue. He also pledged to keep the A small audience gathered last more years, serves on the executive in various occupations, a women's McKenna declined, however, to evaluation committee, and said he night in the Regina North base­committee for An Tostal and was a health clinic and weekend movie make any comment on the grounds­would seek to increase communica­ment auditorium for an eighty­member of theexecutive committee festivals. 
keepers issue itself, saying the SBP tion between the different student minute Open Forum with the for Mardi Gras '78. The Tuohy ticket supports more should investigate the matter, but organizatons on campus and the members of the two tickets vying for student participation in Student
Wixted is presently a hall section not take a stand until all the facts Observer. 
the positions of Saint Mary's Government and more on-campus
representative in Regina Hall, waswere known. W eithman asked if all students Student Body President (SBP), social activity. Tuohy favors the 
Schlageter commented that he would have an equal chance in chairman for this year's Sophomore 
Vice-President of Academic Affairs installation of a wide television
Parents Weekend and previouslyalso would like to know as many obtaining po:;itions on the student and Vice-President for Student screen in the snack bar and the
served as Regina trea­facts as possible from both sides. government cabinet appointed by Affairs. continued renting of certain hall 
surer. Mullaney is the current"I've looked into the matter and the SBP. Schlageter said his first Gail Darragy, Maureen Carden lounges for private parties. 
co-ex commissioner and serves onarguments cabinet
I've heard on both choice for would be his and Julie Pope compose one ticket Wixted suggested that Student 
sides," he said. But Schlageter opponents in the SBP election. "If the Judicial Board.
for SBP, VP for Academic Affairs Government set up periodical
said he did not have enough they'll accept a position, they have and VP for Student Affairs respec­"Our platform is centered meeting with campus clubs in order evidence yet to make a statement. top priority," he stated. 
tively. Darragh, a junior psycho-' around the growth of each indivi­to distribute funds in a more 
Rick Kresse asked the candi­His second priority would be hall stated Darragh. organized manner.
logy major, is a section dual student,'' "We also need dates if they would support the given to students already working representative. Carden, also a "I'd like to be SBP of our school more activities that would comple­
allocation of funds to ND-SMC in student government, Schlageter because I've grown a lot here, and ment each other," Wixted com­
junior, is majoring in business and 
Right-to-Life. The group received said. Finally, all other students art, and Pope is a sophomore want others to grow, too." mented. 
SSOO from the Student Government receive equal consideration for psychology major. "We need to make clubs realize
"Communication is the heart ofBoard of Commissioners last cabinet posts, he said. 
we should work for each other,"The second ticket consists of our campaign," added Carden. "IOctober. McKenna responded, McKenna agreed that all three Terry Tuohy, a junior sociology believe in myself and I believe in added Mullaney. 
"There are a lot of merits to the candidate tickets have indicated Both platforms have also pro­
major, and Mary Mullaney and the student body." 
organization, and Right-to-Life great interest in student govern­mised to work for extended pari­Sheila Wixted, both sophomore Pope cited the need for amerits receiving funds. But I can't ment, simply by the amount of time etals, more social space, coopera­business majors, running for SBP, self-defense program and more call say whether or not all seven they have spent working on the tion with the Career DevelopmentVP for Academic Affairs, and VP boxes around campus.
members of the board of commis­election. He indicated that he Center and better communicationfor Student Affairs respectively. Other aspects of the Darraghsioners would want to give funds to [Continued on page 8] among the students, their resident advisors and Student Government. 
One student asked the two SBP candidates how they would react if they were asked to present to the Board of Regents an issue which the board was likely to find objectionable. 
"I would present what the students wanted," answered Darragh. "I would definitely bring it up." 
"I would present it to the best of my ability," replied Tuohy. "But I'd be respectful of both the students and the board." 
Both tickets are also concerned that Saint Mary's students have a "Saint Mary's of Notre Dame" image rather than one of "Saint Mary's College." 
"We should make students aware of what's happening on our campus, and not across the street,'' commented Mullaney. 
All members of the student body are eligible to vote in the election which will be held next Monday in the LeMans lobby form 10 a.m. to 6 
p.m. Election Commissioner Maria Mignanelli encourages everyone to vote. 


Carden, Mary Mullaney, Sheila Wixted, and Terry Tuohy respond to questions 
Thursday, March 9, 1978
the obarver 

,_News Briefs----~ 
t=============================World 
Crash kilb; Americans 
CAIRO--A small passenger plane crashed while landing yesterday at the Aswan airport, killing four American agricultural experts and the two other persons aboard, the semiofficial newspaper AI Abram reported. 
•=============================== National 

Coal strike a_ffects industry 
PITISBURGH--Automakers and steel producers, pillars for the 
U.S. economy, are feeling the coal strike's pinch, but they say it doesn't hurt too much yet. But both industries, which are interdependent, warn there could be severe layoffs if utilities curtail coal-generated electricity beyond present levels. 
Drug arrests up in '77 
INDIANAPOLIS--Drug arrests by Indiana conservation officers more than doubles last year and experts say that may be a sign that drug abusers are moving their activities to rural settings. A Department of Natural Resources report issued this week showed state conservation officers made 703 drug-related arrests in 1977, up 55 percent from the year before. 

Weather 

Sunny and cool today with highs in the low 30s. Clear and cold tonight. Lows around 20. Partly cloudy and warmer tomorrow. Highs in the upper 30s. Mild Saturday through Monday. Chance for rain Saturday. Lows in the 30s. Highs in the 40s. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
12:15 pm  mass, celebrated daily during Iafortune ballroom  lent  by fr.  griffin,  
3:15pm  workshop, "assertive areson, sponsored by center, 161 le mans  training," with suzanne smc career development  
3:30pm  computer class, "introduction to command pro­cedures," (clists), sponsored by computing center, 115 ccmb, continues march 14 and 16  
4:30pm  seminar, "prey selection by the bluegill sunfish,"by dr. gary vinyard, univ. of montana, 101 galvin  
7 & 9 pm  film, "two women" With sophia loren, sponsored by modern & classical languages dept., lib. aud.,$1  
7, 9:15 & 11:30 pm  film, "dog day afternoon," eng. aud., $1  
7:30pm  lenten penitential service, regina chapel  
· 8 pm  concert, america with special guest michael murphy, ace, tickets $8.50 & $7.50  
8:30 pm  english lecture series, "the transformative power, by elizabeth sewell, visiting prof., sponsored by english dept., 122 hayes-healy aud., everyone welcome  
9-11 pm  nazz, terry donahue & a cast of thousands, Iafortune basement  
friday  
12:15 pm  biology travel series, "czechoslovakia," by theodore b. ivanus, 278 galvin aud., public invited  



See MR. ART ARENS, Corporate Employment Representative 
Mr. Steve Gutschenritter, 
ChE Notre Dame '77 March 13th 8:30a.m.-4:45p.m. Placement Bureau ADMINISTRATION BLDG. 


At Soviet celebration· 




Jews seek freedom 
MOSCOW [AP] -As Soviet officials celebrated International Women's Day by lauding the "epochaJ successes" of women's liberation in the Soviet Union, security police yesterday broke up a demonstration by a group of Jewish women who want to emi-· grate. 
"Soviet authorities have demon­strated again what women's rights in this country really mean," the activists said in a statement pre­pared for the protest in downtown Moscow near the Kremlin. 
Dozens of agents moved in quickly to break up the small gathering. Dissident sources said six women were seized by plain­clothes agents and taken away during the demonstration, organ­ized to protest the Soviet govern­ment's refusal to permit the women to emigrate. Most of them want to go to Israel. , 
Four other women who had planned to take part in the protest were detained by police at their homes and then driven away, the sources said. 
They included Irina McClellan, who has been barred for three and one-half years from joining her American husband, Professor Woodford McClellan, a teacher of Russian and East European history at the University of Virginia. Mrs. McClellan and her husband were married in 1974. 
"For three and a half years we have been separated by the Soviet government without any reason," 
White House voices support of black rule 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The Carter administration gave lukewarm sup­port yesterday to an agreement to end all-white rule in Rhodesia and urged that black guerrilla leaders . be included in any settlement in that country. 
Bishop Abel Muzorewa, one of three black nationalist leaders who signed the historic agreement, said after meeting with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, "I believe we have explained our case. 
"I'm left with the impression that he's going to consider it carefully," he said. 
But immediately afterward, the department said the United States and Britain will keep working with the Patriotic Front in an attempt to bring ,its guerrilla heads together with Muzorewa and his allies. 
"We regard the arrangement agreed to in Salisbury as another stage in the process of political change in Rhodesia," the depart­ment said in a statement read by spokesman Tom Reston. 
Vance planned to meet later with British Foreign Secretary David Owen and go with him to the White House for a meeting there with President Carter. 
The Patriotic Front has de­nounced the agreement signed with Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith last Friday as "the biggest sellout in African history" and vowed to fight on until total 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and VM3tlon pertocfs. Tl'!e Observer Is published by the studenb of Notre Dame and S.lnt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be p11rdlasect for S20 per year (S 1D per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postqe paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Obaerver Is a member of the Anoclatecl Pren. All repro­duction rlthta are reserved. 

SCOTTSDALE MALL FREE!!! 

Soft drink ·with 3 items e TACOS • tJAIY TACQ 
• 
IIIRIIOS • TAIIAliS 

• 
EICIUIAS • TACO IOC 

• 
TOSfAIOS •.IJM TACO 


• IARIEQ~E TACO 
• 
SPAIIISI lOT Ml 

• 
CIIEE'SEBUICEI "We carry a line of 



egetaria!l Foods. 
·~ . 

... ' '' ':·.·.··. .. 
..~-. .. !~\ ..: ;:·.:::--'·..-;.· . .;..' .'.. . ' ·.:,.. ' . ~ ,•'.. 
military victory. 
Smith has appealed, meanwhile, 

to Carter to support his agreement 
with Bishop Muzorewa, the Rev. 
Ndabaningi Sithole and Chief 
Jeremiah Chirau and asked for an 
American "helping hand" to re­
move international sanctions 
against Rhodesia. 
The pact sets Dec. 31 as the 

target date for a transfer of power 
from Rhodesia's white minority of 
268,000 to the black majority of 6.3 
million. 
Muzorewa, talking with report­

ers, said he does not look forward 
to a civil war but that if the Patriotic 
Front refuses to accept the agree­
ment "then the people of 
Zimbabwe (the African name for 
Rhodesia) must have guts enough 
to defend themselves and fight as 
hard as they can." 
The Patriotic Front, led by 

Joshua Nkomo and Robert 
Mugabe, are conducting a guerrilla 
war against the Smith government 
from bases in Zambia and Mozam­
bique. The two men are in New 
York for the United Nations debate 
on Rhodesia and are meeting there 
with U.S. Ambassador Andrew 
Young. 


Student Union to distribute Florida guides 

The Student Union Social Com­mission has announced that they will distribute ''Guides to Fort Lauderdale" Monday and Tuesday of next week. 
The guides will be distributed in front of the mailboxes in residence halls. Off-campus students may pick up guides in the Student Union Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
II II 1dm II [ II 
B 

she said in a statement distributed 
to Western correspondents. "Dur­
ing this period of separation I have 
been terribly tormented by the 
regime." 
Another 23 women were kept inside their apartments by police and security agents to prevent them from taking part in the demonstration, the sources said. 
Brief scuffles occurred at yester­day's demonstration near the main steps of the Lenin Library as security agents ripped away placa­ards only seconds after they were displayed by the protesters. One woman was grabbed roughly and dragged away by agents as she attempted to approach the scene from a nearby subway exit. 
The library steps were blocked off with barricades as more than 50 plainclothesmen kept watch over the area, aided by uniformed police. 
The official celebration of Women's Day, by contrast, was marked by abundant praise of the equality, rights and opportunities formally guaranteed to women under Soviet legislation and the new constitution. 
"Socialism has put an end once and for all to the rightlessness and oppression of women, has opened up boundless opportunities for the flowering of the creative forces," said a holiday proclamation by the Soviet Communist Party's central committee. 
"The epochal successes of the Soviet Union in the solution of problems of women ... the broad rights and liberties of Soviet women, their outstanding role in the life of society, are objects of our pride and serve as a model for the working women of all continents," the proclamation siad. 
During a carefully orchestrated "festive meeting" at the Bolshoi Theater Tuesday evening, former cosmonaut Valentina Nikolayevna­Tereshkova denounced the U.S.­developed neutron bomb and stressed the role of women in campaigning for worldwide dis­armament. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve (Capt. Pike) Odland Asst. Night Editor: Margie (Scotty) Brassil, Chris (Capt. 
Kirk) Slatt ltomulans: Tim Hamilton, Bart Corsaro, Tom Monroe, Jim Rudd Editorial Layout: Greg (Harry Mudd) Hedges Sports layout: Patrick (Sulu) Smith, Paul (Spock) Stevenson Klingons: Gwen Coleman, Kathy Mills, Katie Brehl, Lisa DiValerio EMT:Mardi (Nurse Chappel) Nevin Day Editor: Marian (Uhura) Ulicny Copy Reader: Ann (Mrs. H. Mudd) Gales Ad layout: Greg (Dr. McCoy) Trzupek Photographer: Beth (Yeoman. Rand) Cutter 




~UDrriONS 

11, 12 March 1:00pm 
Callbacks Sun. Mar. 12 -7:00 pm. Materials for auditions available in Speech and 
CU Drama OHioe, Room 110, Moreau Hall, Saint :-1 Mary's. Open to all ND-St. Mary's Students . 
..; .. ~ .. ' . 
...• .· .' .....::."" ...... . 
. "4. 


·" ~ ·' .'·· ; .. \ .. . ·,.·, 
I. 



Thursday, March 9, 1978 the observer 
Dissatisfaction lingers in cultural films dispute 
by Katie Kerwin  thought he'd represent us fairly,"  
News Editor  O'Sullivan: explained. "He claims  
now he doesn't represent the film  
Despite a compromise last April  society and that we didn't get him  
lthat appeared satisfactory at that  the job."  
time to both the Student Govern­ O'Sullivan continued that when  
ment Board of Commissioners and  this problem was brought to  
to members of the discontinued  Student Union officials, their atti­ 
Cinema '77 film series, controversy  tude was that it was the society's  
about the selection of Student  ·'tough luck.' "We have no one to  
Union cultural films has continued  turn to.''  
this year.  "I'm not involved with the film  
Dissatifaction with the SU assis­ society in any way," Canavan  
tant movie commissioner in charge  maintained. "I don't see myself as  
of cultural films and the process of  a member of the film society, but  
selection that has been· followed,  rather as a member of the SU film  
with the criteria used to pick  commission."  
cultural films, and with the number  Canavan pointed out that the  
of dates the Union is considering as  film society did not even exist at  
available to show movies was  the time he was appointed,  
expresssed by the Notre Dame  although most of the society's  
Film Society, a group formed in  members were among those pro­ 
September, 1977. They also com­ testing the discontinuation of the  
plained they had experienced a  Cinema series at the meeting which  
negative attitude at SU towards  led to his selection. He also noted  
cultural films and the film society,  hat he was not even notified of the  
described by film society ·member  society's formation this fall by  
Don O'Sullivan as "hostile and  those people.  
non-cooperative.''  Canavan added that the film  
The discontinuation of the  society has not had a voice in the  
Cinema series last spring led to a  selection of films, except last  
compromise solution, proposed by  semester when he consulted seve­ 
SU Comptroller Colleen McGrath.  ral members for their suggestions.  
Under the proposal, there would be  "I didn't take them as suggestions  
an assistant movie commissioner  from the ND Film Society. I took  
for entertainment films and one for  them as coming from old Cinema  
cultural films, working under the  people, people interested in film,"  
newly established post of SU movie  Canavan explained.  
commissioner. The cultural movie  "The film society people should  
assistant would be responsible for  be able to make suggestions, but  
choosing five movies to be shown  they don't have the right to  
as part of the regular SU movie  demand films," Canavan said.  
schedule. The movie commissioner  Film society members also  
would have veto power over these  charged that Canavan led them on,  
choices, as well as over the five  promising to discuss film choices  
choices of the entertainment movie  with them and putting them off,  
assistant. The five movies selected  until they finally found out that it  
by the cultural assistant to be part  was too late and all movies had  
of the series of free films, would b'e  already been selected for the  
subject only to approval by the  semester.  
comptroller, according to cost  Canavan replied that, ''the  
alone.  reason we weren't willing to listen  
to their suggestions was the  
Cultural assistant chosen  unpopularity of the movies they  
wanted to show last semester." He  
This proposal was satisfactory to  said that first semester he'd tried a  
Bonnie Bona, newly-appointed  combination of his ideas and theirs,  
movie commissioner; the Board of  and "theirs didn't do as welL"  
Commissioners; and members of  Bill Farmer, a film society head,  
the defunct Cinema series. Jim  went to SU Director Tom Gryp this  
Canavan, who would have headed  semester and told Gryp that the  
Cinema '78, was proposed as  society was displeased with the  
assistant commissioner for cultural  way the arrangement was working  
movies and approved by those  out. Gryp said he told Farmer,  
present at the meeting.  "The mechanism is there for you to  
"We went along with it (the  have a voice. If you're not getting  
selection of Canavan) because we  input, the problem lies between  

Roemer warns women against hitchhiking 
• 
Monday \ April 10 8:00pm 

Nazz Benefit Show 
$1

Sat March 11th 8-12 featuring: JULES THOMPSON All proceeds go to ··-·---··-World-Hunger Coalition 
you and your spokesman." said. films, but recently the emphasisWhen confronted recently with "Foreign films weren't ruled out has been on contemporary foreign 
Canavan's statement that he is not necessarily,'' countered McGrath. film, because that is the kind of the group's spokesman, Gryp "There's nothing in the guidelines film they feel is being neglected. maintained that nonetheless, Can­preventing them.'' She pointed out Bona maintained that in her 
avan's nomination was acceptable that three foreign films were shown eyes, profit is merely an indication to the people now comprising the by the Student Union last semes­of a film's appeal, in terms of film society when the decision was ter, as proof of this. attendance. "Every dollar means made last April. "They're bucking ''The reason there are no con­one per.son who wanted to see the a proposal which was at the time temporary foreign films scheduled movie." acceptable to everyone, including is because they didn't ask for any," "We lost on cultural movies last them." Gryp commented, noting that Bona semester--1 expected it. It doesn't Gryp added that he could not go had not vetoed any of the cultural bother me," she commented. "It along with Farmer's suggestion films Canavan proposed. bothers me that they want to show 
that the second semester cultural O'Sullivan maintained that it is films that aren't appealing, with 
film schedule be scrapped and the responsibility of a university, as the limited number of dates we re-chosen by the film society. The a place for mental expansion, to have.'' movies had already been ordered make available films that people "Student Union is putting on for the semester, he said. wouldn't be able to see otherwise. movies for the entire student body. 
Three-fourths of this semester's We're responsible to 6,000 under­movie offerings were shown this grads, not to ten students who have New proposal summer or even last semester in particular views .on films," she South Bend, he noted. .>aid. 
Farmer then appeared at a "Last semester there was a "Why pay money to show some­meeting of the Board of Commis­tremendous emphasis on making thing, when there are other movies sionets and presented a proposal money," Farmer asserted. This, people would rather see?" Bona from the film society. The proposal he claimed, ''puts an unfair 1sked. "If it's not well-known, it's included the establishment of a restriction on the type of films that aot going to get good attendance.'' committee of five, chosen by the will be shown." Gryp reiterated Bona's view, film society and approved by O'Sullivan also pointed out that saying, "Everyone at the Union Student Union, which would have cultural movies are not necesarily agrees that cultural movies have complete freedom in picking a money-losers, citing the popularity a place. We're talking about place 
series of cultural films each semes­of the Bergman festival and other and proportion.'' He denied that ter. The ordering, rental, adver­cultural films shown in the past. profit was the primary criterion in tisement expenses, scheduling and The Cinema '77 series was finan­film selection. money collection would be the cially successful in its final semes­Indication that he felt the film responsibility of the Student Union. ter last year, he noted. society represented a minority 
A maximum of 15 and a minimum He added that the film society is view, he added, "We're dealing of nine films were mandated, with interested in all types of cultural [continued on page7] adjustments to be made within these limits, according to the 
Friday 3:00 -6:00
financial success of the previous semester's series. 
3-4 25• Beers

The board rejected the proposal, saying, ''The movie commission, 
3-6 so• Wine 

as it is presently functioning, is doing an excellent job and any changes would be inappropriate at this time." 
Cultural 6lm criteria 
9:00-2:00

The new film society proposal stated, "The existing formula ... has 9 -10 25• Been no provision for the most signifi­cant and valuable type of film, 11 -12 *1.50 Pltehen namely, contemporary foreign film. This neglect is attributed to the expense and lack of local recognition of such films, the group 
+-----------roncerts W 
by Sue Wuetcher 

A hitchhiking incident involving a female Notre Dame student occurred late last month, according to Dean of Students James Roe­mer. 
The student was picked up in the vicinity of Notre Dame A venue and Angela Boulevard by a man in a dark. colored Granada with a red interior. The man was approximat­ely twenty-five years old and had long. brown hair, Roemer said. He was wearing dark pants and a pair of hiking boots. 
As the girl got into the car, he commented that she looked like his sister. When she asked what his sister looked like, he showed her a picture of a nude girl and· then grabbed her. However, she was able to .jump out of the car and escape, Roemer commented. 
• Roemer stated that the episode is being publicized as a warning about hitchhiking. "In the past several years we have had approx­imately six situations where sick 
people picked up female students in the vicinity of Notre Da_me Ave­nue," Roemer revealed. There was also a rape last year in that same general off-campus area. 
''I think women are well advised not to hitchhike," Roemer .re­marked. "There are many sick and strange people looking fot such opportunities.'' 
Notre Dame ACC 
All Seats Reserved $8.00 & 7.00 Tickets go on sale Monday March 13 at Student Union Ticket Office and ACC Box Office 
the ob..,.,. Thursday, March 9, 1978 
Against coal miners 
( Carter to seek court order today, 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The Carter administration will go to court today to seek an immediate bact-to-wort order against coal miners, an administration official said yesterday. 
The statement came as a presi­dential fact-finding panel complet­ed a one-day hearing into the 93-day coal strike. 
Administration officials said the president needed only to receive the panel's report before directing Justice Department attorneys to ask for the court order. 
The fact-finding panel, estab­lished under the Taft-Hartley act, I toot testimony yesterday from/ representatives of the striking United Mine Workers (UMW) union and from the soft coal industry, then began writing its report to the president. 
The government will seek the order in U.S. District Court in Washington Thursday afternoon, 
UNSAS CITY, MO (AP] • The ·, :urrent farm strike is doomed to ' ailure because of the nature of the ndustry and because its goals ·ould be "disastrous" to American tgriculture, former Agriculture ;ecretary Earl Butz said yesterday. Butz said full parity, one of the tbjectives of the American agricul­ure strike movement, would lead 
o iron clad marketing controls by he federal government and a loss >f feed and export markets by the ~rain trades. 
He said 60 percent of the grain 1ow raised in America is exported . o other countries, and these Juyers would simply purchase !lsewhere or step up production in lheir own countries if American ~ain is too expensive. 
"Farmers like to worship at the lltar of parity, but fu:t parity would >e very disastrous to the farm !conomy," he told newsmen, while tete to speak to delegates to the \merican Pork Congress. 
Butz said the nature of farming tlso limits the effect of a strike. 
"The farmer can't drop out of mxluction for three months, like . :he coal miner does, then resume Jrouucing again," Butz said. "If 1e drops out and misses a planting 
•eason, he drops out for 12 nonths." 
"assuming the president gets the I how soon miners would return to report,'' the administration official wort. The order the government said. would seek presumably would re-· 
The chairman of the presidential main in force until a judge could panel said he expected the report to hear arguments on a request for an be completed by noon today. 80-day injunction. 
The official said the request for a UMW President Arnold Miller temporary restraining order would said yesterday that miners would name more than 1.000 union locals likely disobey a back-to-work order and officials and coal companies as by the thousands, and government defendants. officials said mines would have to 
Officials said other defendants be inspected as a safety precaution will be UMW aconstruction miners before miners would be allowed and member companies of the underground. American Bituminous Contractors, As the administration worked who are negotiating a separate under the Taft-Hartley Act, there agreement. were preliminary indications of 
The government is prepared to renewed attempts to negotiate a seek contempt citations and fines national contract. against defendants violating the It was understood that chief back-to-work order, the official federal mediator Wayne Horvitz 
said, adding: met yesterday with two top indus­"There's not much point in try officials. getting the order if you're not Administration officials have ready to enforce it." said previously industry wide bar­But it was not immediately clear gaining appeared all but hopeless 
Butz fears strike is doomed 
He said a strike movement lacks' 
strength because not ali farmers 
are unhappy. He said farmers who 
raise hogs and cattle and those/in 
milk production are not unhappy 
with their current economic condi­
tions. 
Butz calied the current farm bill 
"horrendous," saying President 
Carter first said he would veto it, 
then called it landmark legislation. 
"We're the only nation in the world asking farmers to cut back," Butz said. "We're destroying the very markets we spend five years building." 
The former secretary said the current Agriculture Department was dominated by consumer in­terests because consumer advo­cates were rewarded with depart­ment jobs for their help in electing Carter. 
"Farmers would be much less restive now if they felt the depart­ment was their friend,'' Butz said. 
He cited as an example cam­paigns to ban certain insecticides. He said environmentalists are over­looking the fact that insects and disease have been eradicated by the very pesticides and chemicals the environmentalists would now ban. 
"Two-thirds of our society has never bitten an apple that had a 
~ .................. ~............ ..-. ..-. ..-. .-.. .-. ..-................... ..-. .......... 
... ~."y ~~-­
~ ~~,;. thos fnday and every~t.~~~ fnday 5 15 mass & 
~~~ suppec 
~ 
''""P••..,
llllll,•,tt~ 

L________ 
in light of a weekend contract rejection by the 160,000 striking miners. 
But neither the industry nor the union's top leadership favors com­pany-by-company contract settle­ments because of the uncertainty it would mean for their organizations. 
~'I've come to the conclusion that a collective bargaining impasse has been reached," declared John N. Gentry, chairman of the Taft­Hartley board of inquiry, after the board concluded its six-hour clos­ed-door hearing. 
After listening to SO witnesses, mostly UMW officials, Gentry said there were "deep divisions" within the union. 
"The problem is their union concerns vary all over the lot .. .it would be · difficult to see any settlement" in the next few days, Gentry told reporters. 
At the hearing, both Joseph P. Brennan, a spokesman for the Bituminous Coal Operators Associ­ation, and UMW Vice President Sam Church, criticized the admin­istration handling of the strike. 
The administration continued to discourage talk of possible legisla­tion to seize the idle mines, hoping that enough miners would obey a court order to increase coal production significantly. 
But Carter's top spokesman con­ceded no option could be ruled out 
as  the  administration  sought  an  
end  to  the  long  and  disruptive  
strike.  
"We  do  not  plan  to  send  

Congress legislation for seizure of 

worm in it. They think the God of 
nature made red juicy apples. 
They don't realize He put the worm 
in the apple, and man had to take it 
out," Butz said. "They don't 
realize that the God of nature put 
trichinosis in pigs and man took it 
out, that He put the termite in 
wood and man took it out." 
Butz said the current administra· 
tion's goal of creating grain re­
serves was a policy of consumer­
oriented government aimed at 
making sure the days of $S-a-bush­
el wheat and $10 soybeans never 
return . 
"Today's floor on prices of farm products becomes tomorrow's ceil­ing," Butz said of the policy. 
Bank teller afflicted with unique allergy 
OLD LYME, Conn. (AP] -Lots of people have money problems, but Theresa Torza's may cost her her job. She's a bank teller who may be allergic to money. 
"Inch by inch the skin on the palm of my right hand and my lefthand thumb and forefinger has broken out into an itchy mess," Mrs. Torza said in an interview. 
She said her malady resembles "a severe case of dishpan hands." 
Mrs. Torza, 21, used to work in the computer department of the Hartford National Bank and Trust Co., but transfered to the Old Saybrook branch near her home soon after getting married in November. 
Dr. Eric Thomas, her dermatolo­gist, said Wednesday he is still testing Mrs. Torza but it is possible she has ''contact dermatitis." 
If Mrs. Torza is allergic, Thomas said, it could result from dye in paper money or chemicals used to treat the paper. It also could result from metals in coins, he said. 
"We don't know if it definitely is money," Mrs. Torza said. "It could be a condition I got and money might be aggravating it." 
GGL.o 
or~ 
Ballet 

direded by Mim Sparks Reid, featuring the premere of a work by David Clark lsele, guest appearance by menmers of the Indianapolis Ballet Theatre. 
March IO & II 

Adinisl!lion Free 8:00PM 
the mines ... " presidential press 1 
secretary Jody Powell said. "Ob­
viously, if at some point down the 
road the situations change, then 
plans could change." 
Many union officials and miners 
prefer seizure legislation to a 
Taft-Hartley injunction, primarily 
because the government would set 
wages and working conditions un­
der legislation. 
Both sides in the dispute have 
indicated a willingness to' resume 
negotiations, but on differing 
terms. Government officials are 
known to believe that company -by 
company talks probably hold the 
only hope for a negotiated settle­
ment. 
But neither side in the dispute favors that approach. 
Miller wrote Brennan on Monday calling for renewed talks, but Church said the industry has not responded. 
The Bituminous Coal Operators Association also said it was ready to talk, but in a slap at Miller said it wanted to deal with negotiators who had the support of the mem­bership. 
Rank-and-file miners rejected one proposed settlement in ballot­ing over the weekend, triggering Carter's decision to use the Taft­Hartley Act in his attempt to step up coal production. 
"It must be called to the atten­tion of the American people that the onus for bringing a resolution of the strike now must rest upon the United Mine Workers of 
[Continued on page 8] 

Thursday, March 9, 1918 the observer 
Economist wants U.S. to 'listen'

by ADeen Lavin 

Jeremiah Novak, an economist who received his masters degree from Notre Dame, spoke last evening in the Memorial Library on 
: "The Struggle for a New World 
! Order," emphasizing in his lecture the need for a new policy in dealing with Third World countries. 
Novak began his lecture by stating that there is a one-way communication of money in the Third World countries. He com­mented that, in regard to the under-developed countries, the 
U.S. "talks but does not listen." 
While aiding the Third World, the United States can also help themselves if they make an effort to realize that they are dealing with powerful cultures which demand respect, Novak said. H we continue to look at the Third World in a paternalistic way, "then all of our efforts are nothing more than middle class charity," he added. 
At this point, Novak pointed out · 
NOTICE: Cleveland Club et• •o • ht
me fng &' n1g 
Yet another brave ND sou seemingly endless lakes There will be a mandatory meet­and streams which have accumulated all over our little world. 
ing tonight at 6:30p.m. for anyone[Photo by Beth Cutter] interested in signing up for the ---------------------------' Cleveland Club mid-semester bus. 
Honor Assembly renewed 
The Academic Affairs Council at Saint Mary's recently approved the r:einstitution of an annual college­wide Honors Convocation to honor and affirm academic excellence at Saint Mary's. 
The 1978 Honors Convocation is scheduled for Monday evening, May 8. Present plans include a junior/senior banquet, followed by a hooding ceremony in LeMans Hall at 7:30 p.m. 
Members of the faculty, admini­stration and senior class will then proceed to O'Laughlin Auditorium for the Convocation itself, which is open to the entire staff and student body, as well as to the families and friends of those honored. 
Awards and honors to be con­ferred recognize both faculty and student achievement. Among the awards to be presented are: the Spes Unica Award for excellence in teaching and service to the College; the St. Catherine Medal, which recognizes outstanding achieve­ment ,be a junior or sophomore; faculty promotions; departmental awards to outstanding senior stu­dents; and membership in Kappa Gamma Pi, the National Catholic Honor Society for women and "Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges." 
Author discloses cloning; scientists express doubt 
NEW YORK [AP] -The author of a book about the purported first cloning of a human being said yesterday the boy he says was created from a cell of an unmarried man is "alive, healthy and loved today." 
Science writer David M. Rorvik was quoted in a statement issued by his publisher, J .B. Lippincott Co. The publisher and Rorvik's agent declined to make the writer available for further questions, either by telephone or in person. 
Rorvik said in the statement that scientists refined a cell-fusion technique for the alleged cloning instead of using earlier microsurg­ical techniques in which cells were more easily damaged. Cloning, the process of duplicating living things from an individual cell, has been used in creating plants and a frog, but has never before been attempted with hu­mans. Scientists have expressed doubt that such an achievement as a human cloning would have gone unnoticed in the scientific world. 
The book, "In His Image," originally was scheduled for publi­cation in June but the date was advanced to March 3l. 
It says that a boy, now 14 with millions of dollars at its disposal." He did not identify the team or say who provided the funding. 

Edward L. Burlingame, senior vice president and editor-in-chief of Lippincott's adult trade division, said the publisher was not able to authenticate Rorvik's claims be­cause of his pledge to conceal the identities of the participants in the 2urported clonin&. 
~SCOTTSDALE 
Scottsdale Mall Telephone 291-4583. 

· 
-

MADELINE CLORIS HARVEY of an unidentified, wealthy, unmar­
months old, was created from a cell' 
KAHN LEACHMAN KORMAN ried man. 
.._DICK VAll PATTEII RON CAlEY· HOWAlD MORRIS AMEL llmS mM ·Pllllluced and lirected by MEL llmS 
The meeting will be held 'in the 
Ballroom of the LaFortune Student 
Center at Notre Dame and in the 
lobby of LeMans Halls at Saint 
Mary's. 
The bus will leave Friday, March 
17 and return Monday, March 27. 
For more information, contact 
Debbie at 4-1-4729, Mike at 1858 or 
Bill at 277-3509. 
Reynolds to speak on Current Events 
Frank Reynolds of CBS television 
network will deliver a lecture on 
"Current Events" at 8 p.m., 
March 18, in Suites 1, 2 and 3 ofthe 
Century Center. 
Reynolds' appearance is spon­
sored by the Indiana University at 
South Bend student government. 
AMBITIOUS 
lEADERS 
·wA""NTED 

All Majors. Start using your education and training without the years of menial chores expected of most starting posi­tions. This is an opportunity to take charge of ahighly trained staff of young people right away. Only those inter­ested in advancement, challenging opportunities and fantastic benefits need apply. Call 312-657-2234 for an interview. We are a DOD, EOE organization. 
~RIVER PARK 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th Telephone 288-8488 
John Travolta in 
Daily, Sat & Sun 7:00-9:30 

"I have seen the child since his birth," Rorvik asserted in the 
Daily, Sat. & Sun. 7:30-9:30 
statement. The statement did not 
This Friday -Sneak Preview at 8:00 
give the child's name or say where 
High Anxiety at 10:00 PM

he is now. Rorvik declared that the cloning was "a feat achieved by a team 
the economic manifestations of the 
· traditional type of policy, which has centered upon an organizaton known as the Trilateral Commis­sion. Since the formation of the Trilateral Commission in 1971, Novak has questioned its effective­ness in regulating world economic cooperation. Novak characterized the working of this commission as a "vicious cycle" where the private investors and banks, such as Chase Manhattan, manipulate credit in the economic foundations of the Third World countries to enable the financing of their private debt to the United States. 
Novak further exposed the ques­tionable actions of the Trilateral Co Commission by showing how its stabilization policy, by "wringing every penny out of the masses to 
· pay the ~ational .de.bt:" often leads to chaos m the vtctimiZed country. "You show me a dictatorship, and I will show you a former stabilization program country," he remarked. 
He summarized his views of the Trilateral Commission by stating "The whole basis of the system is the payment of private debt." He agreed with the Wall Street Jour­nal's interpretation of th Trilateral Commission's objectives. "These men are only out to save the 
banks," he stated. 
The Third World's New Interna­tional Economic Order (NIEO) is an alternative to the Trilateral Com­mission, according to Novak. Although he cited no great appa­rent political motivation towards the Third World policy, he named three senators who could conceiv­able form the basis of a political constituency for the program. 

JEREMIAH NOVAK [Photo by Beth Cutter] 
Novak concluded, ''H you want a program that meets your needs as an American, look at theNIEO." 
The World Hunger Coalition, w!tich sponsored Novak's lecture, will conduct a follow-up workshop entitle "Investments, South Afri­can Apartheid, and Notre Dame" on Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
SMC 
Blue Mantle (Yearbook) 
Now Accepting letters of Applications 
for: 
Editor-in-chief Asst Editor Photography Editor Business Editor 
Include: name, year, major, grade point, qualifications, idea tor theme, etc, etc, 
Deadline is Friday, March 17th to Student Activities Office 166 leMans 
~TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
Town & Country Shopping Center 
Telephone 259-9090
1 2 
13th Week! 

. 
1S 
Daily, Sat & Sun

Daily, Sat & Sun 7:00-9:30 
7:45-9:45 


. • • 4 ~ _J ,I ' , ' ' ~ "­~--~.J• JJ'.~. 
., 

*The Observer
We Cast Our Vote 
The following Is an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the two Saint Mary's SBP tickets, accompanied by an endorsement based on the analysis. Before deciding to endorse, The Observer editorial board conducted Individual Inter­views with each ticket Tuesday night. This\ endorsement Is the result of discussion following the Interviews and although It represents the opinion of the majority of the editorial board, the vote was an extremely close one. 
Tomorrow The Observer will publish columns written by the candidates In which they may challenge any part of this editorial and make their final statements to the student body. 
Darragh, Carden and A»pe 
These candidates definitely have the most comprehensive plaHorm, Including weekend movie festivals In Regina Audito­rium to provide more social life on campus, a Professonal Week where students could learn more about the jobs available to them and more extensive section rep involvement in student government to facilitate better communication. While these proposals seem fairly well research­ed by the trio, their other promises to "realize the potential they see In the student body'' and further develop the "21-Ciub" seem hazy and uncertain. 
In addition, although all three candi· dates have worked closely with their respective classes In the past, we feel that their lack of experience would seriously hamper their work In student government. Obviously, proper procedures and lines of authority can be learned, but we fear that so much time would be spent on educating this ticket that Saing Mary's student government would be effectively stalled for some time. 
We feel that Inexperience Is the Darragh ticket's basic weakness, and a serious one at that. 
Tuohy, Wixted and Mullaney This ticket offers the experience that the Darragh ticket lacks. Tuohy nows serves as advisor to the current student body 
New York City--It was the kind of ;:onversation you would have at 2 o'clock in the morning at Elaine's Restaurant in New York City. I can't even remember who brought it up, but the question was, "Which was invented first --the wheel or the pothole?" 
Baker said it was the pothole. He claimed there was no reason for the wheel to be invented unless there was a pothole for it to fit in. 
Lazar was of the opposite opin­ton. "Man developed slowly and mvented the wheel by accident. It Nas only years later that he thought >f the idea of digging the pothole to Jreak the axle of the wheel.'' 
Halberstam, who is learned in nost subjects at 2 o'clock in the norning, said, "It seems to me .hat two different groups were Norking on the wheel and the Jothole at the same time. ·when 
hey finished they each realized hey had nothing. The wheel had to value to anyone without the >Othole, and the pothole was 1tterly useless without the wheel. 3ut then a man traveling between he two cultures discovered what 
!ach group had invented and Jrought them together." "What was his name?" Baker vanted to know. 
•'Arnold,''· Halberstam replied. "Arnold what?" Shaw de­nanded. "I don't remember. I'll think of t in a moment." 
"You're all wrong," said Styron "The pothole people and the whee.•' 
people never did see eye to eye. They would never get together. As I heard it, people used to live in potholes before they lived in caves." 
"People lived in potholes?" Lazar said. 
'Sure," said Styron. "A man would be walking down the road, and when he got tired he'would just stretch out in a pothole and go to sleep. Of course, he rarely slept in the same pothole twice." 
"But then someone invented the wheel?" "Who invented the wheel?" Baker wanted to know. 
"Sheldon." 
"Sheldon who?" Lazar wanted to know. 
"I don't remember his last name. He was a little fellow with reddish hair and had two teeth missing in the front like Leon Spinks," Styron said. "Anyway, Sheldon invented the wheel and folks took to it right away. The only trouble was they kept running over people who were sleeping in the potholes at night. So the people who were being run over started yelling at the people with the wheels and said, "I'll break your head with a club if you drive into my pothole.' 
'''Go live in the caves if you don't want to get run over,' the wheel people said. And that was the beginning of the first cave men." 
"That's a good story," said Lazar. ' 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
president and was president of her class 
The Observer is published by students of the University
during her freshman and part of her 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not
sophomore years. WJxted has been 
necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The 
Regina Hall treasurer and was chairman of 
news is reported as accurately and as objertively as the recent Sophomore Parent's Weekend 
possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of at Saint Mary's. Finally, Mullaney Is, at 
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinion and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available
present, co-ex commissioner and also 
to all members of the community, and letters are
serves on the judicial board. Their wide 
en~o.uraged to promote the free expressiOn of varying
range of experience in hall, class, judicial 
oprnrons on campus.

and all-campus government Is this ticket's 
EDITORIAl BOARD
biggest strength. Their platform, however, Is less compre­
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor
hensive and well-planned out than that of 
Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed.
the Darragh ticket. Their most concrete 
Kathy Mills Executive Editor
proposal Is the publishing of a booklet 
Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor
explaining Saint Mary's traditions, chan­
Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor nels of authority, procedures, clubs and 
Jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor organizations which would be distributed 
Katie Kerwin News Editor to all students. 
Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor
They also hope to enhance the prestige 
Pat Coif' Special Projects Ed. 
and authority of Student Assembly, the 
Tony Pace Features Editor college's decision-making body. However, their plans for doing this seem to consist 
Thursday, March 9, 1978 simply of moving the meetings to a more strategic location (they are now held in the 
opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~
basement of Regina) and asking for more media coverage. We question the effec­tiveness of such a plan. 
We also question their proposal to include a resident advisor representative 
He·alth Addiction 
on the Board of Governance. Since RAs are chosen by the administration and not the students, we question whether such a person should assist on the board as a 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii s te ve o 'donne II
"representative of the students." How­ever the Tuohy ticket's plan to attempt Not long ago, President Carter 
proposed a 23 million dollar plan to 
better communication with Notre Dame's 
discourage people from smoking.
student government, as well as its own 
And Secretray of HEW Joseph
clubs and organizations, does have merit. 
Califano has called smoking a slow motion form of suicide. I don't mean to take issue with Carter or
In our opinion, the Tuohy ticket's past 
Califano here. The reason I
experience and knowledge of the workings 
mention these two facts is that I
of Saint Mary's student government will 
think they reflect the sentiments of 
equip them to effectively handle the a good number of Americans. various problems that may arise through­Americans, comparatively speak­out the school year. Therefore we endorse ing, are extraordinarily health­
minded. Think about it: the
the Tuohy-Wixted-Mullaney ticket for 
United States is far and away the
Saint Mary's student body president, vice 
healthiest nation in the world, and
president of student affairs and vice 
yet nowhere will you find people
president of academic affairs, respectively. who worry so much about health. 
The anti-smoking campaign typi­fies the uncommon zeal with which
eriousIy foIks I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Americans throw themselves into the cause of health. We have hit our young with so many sad facts about smoking --how it shortens lives, how it enslaves people, how "unglamourous" it is --that_Jo
Which Came First? 
many of them it must seem almost immoral. At the same time, in other countries, you'll be hard­art buchwald pressed to find a twelve-year-old 
contains a high amount of chlores­
terol, that awful stuff which clogs 
arteries. Instead, he had learned to 
savor skim milk and wheat germ, 
or, God help us, all-bran. He had 
picked up another life-saving hint 
from his jogging partner --caffeine 
causes strain on the heart --so he 
drops coffee off the menu. At 
work, his friends invite him for an 
after-lunch martini, but he holds 
back with heroic self-control. 
Didn't you know that alcohol kills 
brain cells? 
But our hero's sacrifice (or 
stupidity, depending on how one 
looks at it) has not gone unnoticed. 
His wife wonders if there's not 
something to this health kick 
afterall. She starts perusing his 
health magazines, and finds out 
that women actually need more 
nutrition that men. Immediately, 
she sets upon a plan to improve her 
slop-filled diet. She pops vitamin 
pills daily and cuts down on sweets. 
But she soon discovers that a good 
diet is not enough. She wants to 
look good, and for that she needs 
exercise. And how is she going to 
get it? She's not quite ready to 
descend to jogging; that's too much 
a man's sport. Then, reading the 
paper one day, she comes upon just 
the thing --Holiday Spas. Her 
husband is reluctant to fork up the 
outrageous price of this health 
program. But she convinces him 
that it's for a worthy, nay, impera­
tive cause. After all, he just spent 
$90 for a pair of orthopedically 
designed joggmg shoes, built es­
pecially for running around 
smooth, asphalt tracks in a counter­
clockwise direction. 
One could cite dozens more 
examples of the health craze taking form in America. But I think my point is clear: Americans have put health out of perspective. They have transformed health from a condltl.on for fulfillment in life to the sole end and purpose of life. This attitude was perhaps best expressed by the lady in the Geritol commercial: "When you got your health, you got just about every­thing." Health is important, of course. But if health is all you have, you have nothing more than an animal, which is, unfortunately. 'what many Americans have settled 
for. 
"There's more," Styron said. 
''Without people sleeping the pot­
holes the wheels started to break 
and so did the axles. So the wheel 
people went back to the cave 
people and said, 'It's okay. You 
can sleep in the potholes any time 
you want to .. ' But the cave men had 
developed intelligence by then and 
said, 'You wheel peopl~an take a 
flying leap.' So the wfieel people 
said, 'Well, if you won't sleep in 
th~ potholes, the least you can do is 
fill them up.' And the cave people 
said, 'The wheel people made the 
potholes in the first place; they can 
fill them up if they don't like 
them.'" 
"Good for the cave men," Shaw 
said. 

"How was the issue decided?" 
Halberstam aksed. 
"It never was. To this day there is nothing in writing that spells out who is responsible for a pothole,'' Styron concluded. 
Somewhere in Tibet it has been reported that a person saw an ancient scroll on which was written, "It's Mayor Kock's job." But no one has ever confirmed it. 
Then Baker told us a joke. "Why -does a pothole cross the road?" 
who doesn't smoke, and no one there thinks much of it. 
But our young, on the whole, are much less affected by this health­mindedness than our middle-aged. People around forty are often most vulnerable to the health craze, because that's when one begins to notice sharper physical decline. It's at this age that our middle­aged American, call him Flaccid Fred, becomes a cardiologist of sorts: he learns all about blood pressure, and terms like "arterio­sclero.;is," "angina pectoris," and "my JCardial infarction" pop up reg Jlarly in his everyday conversa­tir11; he winces at pictures of h.trdened arteris {and keeps fight­;ng the thought that his arteries might not look much different); and he looks ahead to his only hope -­jogging. ·No, it's 'not too late to start getting in shape. He can add a few years to his life, but he must start now. He adjusts his way of life accordingly. He gets us at the crack of dawn (invariably waking an irritable wife in the process) to jog a few miles. He abstains from the normal "eggs, bacon, and toast" breakfast, for he has learned from his doctor that such diet 
No one knew. 
"To prevent a chicken from getting to the other side." 
It was time to go home. 
Loti Aaaelea Times Syadlcate [C)l978 


Volunteers needed: 
Spend summer in Africa 
by Andy Segovia life. Operation Crossroads at­
tempts to give its members a 
chance to reexamine basic atti­
tudes, standards, and beliefs in 
Operation Crossroads of Africa is relation to people with contrasting currently recruiting volunteers for values and lifestyles. The main their summer programs in Africa. concern of the program is to open Founded in 1958, Operation Cross-channels of communication be­roads has sent more than 5,000 tween peoples of different races, American volunteers, including nationalities and cultures. students and teachers, to 34 The majority of the volunteers French-speaking and English-'receive scholarships in varying speaking African countries. amounts and fund-raising assis-
The volunteers live during the tance from the organization. The summer with rural village com-pr(}gram is available to even the munities and assist with vital most financially disadvantaged. self-help programs. These pro-Volunte~rs oft~n arrang~ to receive grams include building schools a!Id acade!"tc credtt fo~ ~hetr SUJ_D!ller health clinics, agriculture, mustc, expenence. In addttton, parttctpa­art, archaeology, health education, tion in the program may lead to journalism and community devel-professional careers in internation­opment. a! relations, higher education and 
In addition to aiding in the social business. and economic development of Among the volunteers in the past Africa, the program strives to give years have been a number of Notre its participants a brief and int~nse Dame students. Senior Carl Pe~n immersion in traditional African spent the summer of 1976 m 
Dissatisfaction lingers in dispute 
[continued from page 3] wtth a radical group." Citing an active membership of 10-15 stu­dents and a view point he considers narrow, Gryp asked, "Arethey too limited in scope to merit a voice?" 
Canavan explained that he'd planned fewer foreign films second semester because attendance had been poor at the ones he'd tried first semester. He said it was not primarily a fear of losing money, but rather that "to show a movie only a few are interested in is not fair to the campus." Canavan stated that ideally there would be a balance of all types of cultural films, but since the number of open dates is limited, he is trying to choose the films that appeal to the most people. "The main criteria is waht people will go to see," he said. 
McGrath also denied that movie selection was totally profit­oriented. "I have nothing against losing money on some movies," she stated. "It's the responsibility of Student Union to show cultural movies." McGrath said she did object to the request to show nine to 15 cultural films this semester, though, since only seven slots were open for SU films. Even if it were possible to find two more dates to meet the minimum of nine, this would result in a sche­dule consisteing of only cultural films, which would not be fair to those interested in purely enter­tainment films, she pointed out. "It seems they're trying to stuff culture down people's throats." 
A balance of both types of films 
is necessary to appeal to the 
greatest number of students, she 
added. "Are we reaching the most 
students possible with the money 
we spend?" 
Number of movies scheduled 
The number of dates presently 
open for movie scheduling was also 
challenged by the ftlm society. 
Farmer and O'Sullivan maintained 
that their quota of nine to 15 
cultural movies could be met 
without slighting non-cultural 
offerings, if more movie dates were 
opened up. 
"Student Union just doesn't 
want to conflict with their other 
activities," O'Sullivan said. He 
added that he saw no reason for not 
having more than one social activi­
ty scheduled for a given day. He 
called the restricted film dates, "an 
arbitrary reason for cutting back 
the compromise." 
He cited the Asian and the 
Medieval film series being spon­
sored within the College of Arts 
and Letters this semester as proof 
that many more dates are available 
for movies. 
Bona denied that the reduced 
number of film dates this semester 
is due to reluctance to conflict with 
other Student Union events. She 
said she is willing to schedule 
against activities like concerts, and 
has only avoided major events like 
Mardi Gras and An Tostal. 
'"It's a matter of .•when the 
Engineering Auditorium is free," around and put up posters. It's not she explained, adding that more that I'm not interested." Bona movies were "not possible" this admitted there had been some semester. problem with posters, but insisted the cultural movies had gotten the Negative Attitude same coverage as all the other 
movies. 

One of the film society's major Gryp also asserted that cultural grievances has been what they say movies had received the same they see as a "hostile, non-cooper-quality of publicity as other SU ative attitude" towards their group events. "It's ridiculous of them to and a lack of SUJ?port for cultural acuse Studnt Union of sabotaging 
films. They mentiOned poor adver-its own events," he said. tising, posters that were distributed Bona, Canavan and Betty Som­
late or not at all, and rejection of mers, the assistant commissioner ··FF===========================~I= 
offers to assist with poster distri-for entertainment films,  have  
bution and admission  collection,  expressed interest in  a  
as well as exclusion from selection determine  what  kinds  of  

of films. students want. Canavan 
"They're treating us as a crack-mentioned polling professors pot, elitist, snobbish group," 0'-their suggestions. S~Ilivan s~id. "We're ~ying. to Bill Roche, recently appointed gtve them mput and they re reJeC-serve as Student Union director ting it." He noted this seemed the coming year, said that he inconsistent with the Student not yet made a final decision on Union pamphlet which urges all handling of movie selection for interested students to offer their year. 
help He stressed that Student Union 
Bona claimed that she'd gotten will be open to suggestions about few offers for assistance from the films, as well as about any other group, and that in the areas of aspect of the operation. "I don't distributing posters and collecting want to cut anybody off,'' he admission fees, service groups stated. already existed to handle those The ftlm society said it favors duties. opening up film selection to a 
She denied that cultural movie larger group, which need not coverage had been slighted. necessarily be only film society "There were times when I ran members. 
, Gambia working on the construc­tion of a community center. 
"It is a cultural shock," related Penn. "It is an excellent program for clearing up any mysticism about the African culture, and it is surprising to note the various similarities which exist between the two cultures." 
Penn also stressed the import­ance of lessons learned through group interaction among the volun­teers. "People of different race, sex and economic background are forced to live in an environment which is vastly different from their own," he commented. "The insights gained from such interac­tion are invaluable." 
''The whole program is just a beautiful experience,'' Penn stated. 
Students interested in the Pro­gram should write to Crossroads Africa, Inc., 150 -5th Ave., New York, New 'York 10011, or contact Volunteer Services at Notre Dame. 

Get Ready for pring Break 
Racauets · Tennis ~ Racquet Ball 
Stringing by Expert ~Noe Cabello' 
Fonnerlv of Spenis . .Warm ·_Ups All size$ including Tall Men's Short 6 TODS Women's Tennis Apparel 
Tennis Shoes S Accessories Famous Manufacturers Jo·hn Newcombe Vitre Sport 
White Stag Winning Ways Wilson 
Top Seed Jelenk 
Your Ad,

Loomtogs 
and Many More 

Students S Faculty 10% Discount on ALL Merchandise 
Thursday, March 9, 1978 
Irish poet to give reading 
Peter Fallon, an Irish poet, editor miscellany of comtemporary Irish and publisher, will give a poetry works that will be published this reading t¢ay at 4:30 p.m. in the year. He also founded the Gallery Isis Art Gallery in the Old Field-Press in Ireland. house. Fallon's appearance is sponsored 
Fallon, with the help (}f Sean by the University Press and the Golden, assistant professor of En-dance and drama division of the glish at Notre Dame, edited a Cultural Arts Commission. 
~~ 
0~ 
~ 

~~'fl. 
~c 0' 

~~ '1--Q o¢' ~ tickets: $4 students $2. 
SPANISH DANCES IN CONCERT 
St. Mary's College MAR. 13, 1978. 8PM 
Olaughlin Auditorhim · 
reservations: call 284-5787 or 5788 Watch t(le splendor of Spain's past come olive 


Challenging opportunity for a Professional to Sell to the Institutional Trade ....(Hospitals, schools, etc.) 
Economics Laboratory, Inc., a leader in the field of environmental sanitation and chemical cleaning with sales in excess of $358 million (A Fortune 500 Company), hass immediate openings for individuals with aggressive, confident personalities. The postion includes a six month formalized training program within an exisitlng territory and requires above average mechanical apptitude. Salary plus commssion. Excellent benefits include a company car and expenses. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE PALCEMENT OFFICE. INTERVIEWS \VILL BE HELD THE WEEK OF MARCH 13th. 
ECONOMICS LABORATORY INC. 
Personnel and lndllltrlal Relations 
370 Wabalhl Oabom Bldg. 
~ 

.~;..~. Paul, MlnniiOtl, 55102 
. ;~ ~· 
I 
We are an equal opportunity e~ployer 
.•' 
1 
..t 




SBP candidates make final appeals 
McKenna. He estimated that advocates an off-cainpus represen-Notre Dame in 1973 and 1975, as
;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,______________________...,._____"well as four essays written later. 
[Continued from page 1] would also consider unsuccessful candidates first for cabinet posts. 
As to how the application process would be set up, McKenna said, "Everybody will be given an equal chance to apply for a position. I will also make an effort to go out and recruit new people." 
Both candidates agreed that Bruce Blanco and Carey Ewing, the SBP/SBVP ticket forced out of the running after receiving 14 percent of the vote in Tuesday's initial election, had good ideas and good 
THE FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF THE GEt;JERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES invite all members of the Freshman Class, and others interested in joining 
,the Program, to a social and informational meeting at 7:00p.m., Sunday, March 12, 1978, in the Memorial Library Lounge. 
ucan't inenta '
•

u' 
m1ssour 
planks in their platform. 
"I can't say right now ifwe'll use any specific planks from Blanco's platform," McKenna said. "But we're committed to a number of his ideas.". 
Schlageter said Blanco's ideas were interesting and added to the campaign. "We have good imple­mentable planks," he commented. "But it's good to dream some­times." 
Schlageter was asked what he· thought of the practice of giving complementary and preferential 
tickets to students who work for 
Student Union and student govern­
ment,. and whether he had ever 
accepted such tickets. 

He explained that he opposed giving complimentary tickets because this practice takes money away from the student body. However it is unlikely that prefe­rential tickets would cause the student body to lose money, according to Schlageter. 
He said giving preferential tic­kets was "OK." "It's nice to be able to give something to people who work for student government and Student Unon," he explained. 
McKenna re-explained his pro~ posal for a Third World Develop­ment conference, giving details on how the conference would be funded. He said the conference would be held late next fall, when SO to 60 student leaders from universities across the country would meet at Notre Dame to exchange ideas. Speakers would be the major cost for the conference, according to $3,000 would be the maximum figure for good speakers. All other costs, such as renting conference facilities in the Center for Conti­nuing Education, housing for the conferees and transportation, would all be paid by the conferees themselves. 
Both candidates spoke on their proposals concerning off-campus students. McKenna said he wanted to initiate an off-campus storage system for off-campus stu­dents to store valuables during fall and spring breaks. Most break-ins and thefts of student property occur during breaks, according to McKenna. He also said he wanted more contact between student government and off-campus stu­dents. 
Schlageter's plans concerning off-campus students included strengthening the Off-Campus Commission by appointing repre­sentatives from each major concen­tration of off-campus student housing, such as Turtle Creek Apartments. He said he also 
Continental's Discount Fares are easy on your To make it even easier, charge it all on our pocket. There's a fare for night people, and lots "Let Yourself Go" credit card. Fly now and pay of special prices for going home or just getting when that letter comes in from home. away from it all. Check with your travel agent, your campus 
And only Continental has Economy fares rep or Continental and find out how you can everywhere we fly. take the easy way out. ·· 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
NIGIIT COACH: Travel between 9:00PM and 6:59AM to selected destinations. SUPER COACH: Limited seats available on specified nonstop DC-10 flights. COACH EXCURSION: Minimum 7 day advance purchase and reservation. Return not earlier than 1st Sunday nor later than 30 days after departure. limited seats available • 
tative on his proposed Security Advisory Council, and advocated an off-campus Ombudsman, which would "cater to off-campus stu­dents in more detail." 
The radio forum was the first of its kind ever held at Notre Dame. Student Body Vice President candi­dates Jayne Rizzo (running with Schlageter) and Mike Roohan (paired with McKenna) were not present, and about five students looked on as the WSND reporters asked questions and the candidates made their statements. 
NO Press publishes book on abortion 

Abortion, New Directions for Policy Studies, a book recently published by the University of Notre Dame Press, is a collection of "carefully reasoned position papers" from the second of two conferences on abortion held at 
The editors of the book, Edward 

Manier, William Liu and David 
Solomon, believe that the current 
debate on abortion needs new 
perspectives, and they try in their 
book to back off and restate the 
problem. Their goal is to chart a 
new direction for expert contribu­
tions to public policy concerning 
abortion. 
"We convened with a conference 

whose participants have opposed 
political, economic, social and 
moral attitudes concerning abor­
tion," writes Manier in his intro­
duction to the volume. "We do not 
assume that the result is a solution 
to the problems of abortion. We 
hope the result will be a clearer 
formulation of the problems. We 
hope to make the normative, 
methodological, and substantive 
assumptions of all the participants 
in the ongoing abortion debate 
more accessibleto investigation and 
criticism by other scholars and to 
enlightened use by the public and 
the decision makers the public 
elects." 
Carter seeks court order 

[Continued from page 4] 
America and its membership. The efforts of the administration to bring an end to this dispute have been heavily directed toward in­dustry. These efforts must now be directed to the true source of the dispute -the union and its mem­bership," Brennan said. 
Church, in his statement, said a Taft-Hartley injunction is a "dras­tic remedy. In effect, it is a direct government intervention in the normally free collective bargaining process." 
"Given the union's reasonable position and its contribution to the national coal supply during this period, it would be an outrage to adopt the onesided approach of the Taft-Hartley Jaw rather than to take other measures." 
UMW-preferred alternatives in­clude coal export restrictions, al­location of coal among utilities and, if necessary, government seizure of the strikebound mines "to produce a negotiated settlement,'' Church said. 
The union also outlined several reasons for the rank-and-file mem­bership's rejection of the contract. 
They include provisions calling for deductibles for health care that has been free, questions over pensions, arbitration proceedings and holidays. 
Several rank-and-file members asked to testify at the hearing and some criticized the government. 
John Leonard, a local union president from Cokeburg, Pa., complained the board was impos­ing strict time limitations on wit­nesses. 
Local UMW leaders from West Virginia, also asking to testify, prepared material in support of seizure legislation and against the 
'---------------------------------------------------,..Taft-Hartley Act. 
. ........ , .................. ' . 
• • t ' ' • t ' ••
. 
1 • ~ r • • • t • • • • • • c • t -~ • • 

• • • • • • • • ' • It •• ' •• _, ....... ~ ....... -\ . '• J. r •­
I • I ' ! ) J 

. ..' ....... . ••• ' • 'II'"·.'· . 


Thursday, March 9, 1978 the observer 
Phelps' speech 
Emphasizes women's role 
by Dluae WllaoD Senior Staff Reporter  Phelps said women have excel­lent chances in today's world. It's  rity of the two people involved. He said that he did not know why more  
Emphasizing the role of women  all a matter of "being in the right  football players are  married than  
in  today's  society,  Richard  place at the right time.'' At this  basketball players.  
"Digger" Phelps gave a talk to a  time in history, Notre Dame islthe.  Phelps commented that the ideal  
small crowd in Lyon's chapel last  right place for  women,  he  com­ situation would be for a person to  
night.  mented.  And if they don't take  ''burn  out  all  of  the  things  he  
Phelps started out the talk with a  advantage of this fact, he empha­ wanted  to  do  before  he  settled  
description of some of the things he  sized, "it's their own fault."  down."  His  suggestion  was  to  
sees  happening  to  the  role  of  The biggest thing in everyone's  "get your undergrad degree and  
women in society.  He said he feels  life should be that they are happy,  then go to Europe for a year, just  
that there has been an increasing  Phelps  indicated.  There  is  no  working  your  way  around  the  
awareness of women's roles in the  perfect job,  school  or  basketball  countries."  He emphasized that a  

last decade.  Women have had to  team, he continued.  "We should  person should do what he wants to  
suffer a lot, "just like any other  accept the positives because. there  do  now,  not  put  it  off  until  
.minority group in America" to be  are always going to be negatives.  sometime in the future,  because  
accepted, he commented.  Nothing  is  ever  going  to  be  "there might not be a future."  
The sexist attitude began with  perfect," he noted.  Phelps ended the discussion with  
cavemen because the men had to  He said that we  should realize  some comments about basketball.  
provide for the women while they  that things do  not always "work  He said that he has  not thought  
were pregnant and taking care of the kids, he observed. This trend  out, but that's life. We just have to learn to cope." There may be some  ahead any farther than Houston. "That is the big game right now,"  ....  
continued through the generations.  negative things at ND, but "there  he stated.  
Finally, he continued, in today's society there is a compromise and a  are a lot of positive things too.'' Women at ND still have about  Spring break  
sharing of responsibilities so both people can achieve fulfillment.  four more years before they com­pletely reach their own identity,  policy~ given  
The two basic reasons why the clash between the sexes exists, Phelps said, are that men feel  Phelps commented, adding that it takes about a decade for changes like women entering Notre Dame to  j Dean of Students James Roemer . has announced the policy for the Notre Dame residence halls and  

· threatened by women in the busi­fully be realized. There are many dining halls during the Spring ness world and that they do not changes that have to take place and Semester Break. · 
"know how to deal with women's these changes will take time and Residence halls will be secured 
sexuality.'' He added that women patience, he said. "With progress
Can't depe~nd on coal during the break and will be 
i "have the world in their hands." and growth, things change." 
accessible through one door only.
All they need is the confidence to In a question and answer session All other doors will be chain­
make the move. following the talk, Phelps reacted locked. Any student staying on
I&M imports power 
Phelps said that they should not to the problem of women compet­campus for break should obtain a worry about ..ing with men in athletics. He said 
[AP]· Unable to depend on "This power that we are buying not surviving in the key from his rector. 
business world. They should just he felt it was good as long as
regular deliveries of coal, Indiana's is subject to immediate disconnec­The North Dining Hall will close 
be themselves and simply "start women were not at a definite
electric comapnies are augmenting tion. We have to be prepared to after the noon meal on Friday,
someplace, not worrying about disadvantage because of size. He
their strike-depleted stockpiles pick up that power immediately," March 17. Students remaining on 
where they are going." did not feel it was right to match up 
·with power purchased from utilities he said. "If we couldn't do that, campus for dinner that evening will 
One point Phelps emphasized a 5'10" girl against a 6'8" guy. "It
whose supplies are more stable. the system would be in serious eat in the South Dining Hall. The 
was that women have more sensiti­would be the same as matching
For most, the practice is nothing trouble." For IPALCO, power pur­South ·Dining Hall will close after 
vity than men and more awareness Whitehead against D~ck; Duck did 
new. At least two · Indiana and chasesvary from day to day, said the evening meal on Friday, March 
of the people and situations around not have a chance," he remarked. 
Michigan Electric Co. and Indiana­spokesman John Hardesty. 17. Both dining halls will re-open
them. This gives them a better For sports like tennis, golf and
polis Power & Light -import for the evening meal on Monday,
"We have purchased energy chance in the business world today, swimming, however, "it's great."
electricity and sell some of it to March 27. 
before but there's no specific trend he said, commenting that women In discussing the advisability of
other utilities. During the break, the public
on how much we're purchashing," should not feel threatened by men marriage for athletes, Phelps said
"I&M is an energy-deficient cafeteria will be open for meals on
he said. 
in business who do not know how to it can be very negative or· very
company," spokesman Warren a cash basis from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
When necessary IP ALCO goes to deal with women. positive, depending on the matu-
Widenhofer said in an interview daily.
a utility network with a request for Wednesday. "I&M does not, by a certain amount of power andwhen itself, have enough generating 
it is filled, "we really don't know capacity to take care of all its what utility it's from," Hardesty Concert Band 
Sophia ~ren 
As rule,

customers' needs." a explained. To date, IPALCO hasn't 
in

I&M imports between 15-30 per­had any difficulty buying electricity 
cent of its electricity from the tour slated 
he added. 
Two Women
American Electric Power System, a "About 25 percent of the electri­The Notre Dame Concert Bandholding company of seven utilities city we're producing comes from will begin a 3,000-mile tour of 
Library Auditorium 1 Dollar
in Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia . 
oil. The remainder comes from southern states March 19 with aand Kentucky, he said. But with its coal that we have stockpiled, coal 
Friday-March 10 7 & 9 pm
coal supply below the 40 day stage, concert in Memphis, TN. 
that we're able to purchase and Other concert dates are sche­the utility's 350,000 customers in emergency power. But it's our duled for Covington, LA, March 20; 
Sponsored by
northeastern Indiana are on man­intention to do everything we can to Houston, TX, March 21; San 
· Dept. of Modem and Classical languages 
datory cutbacks of 40 percent for stay in th~ 50-60 day level to keepschools, 25 percent for businesses 
Angelo, TX, March 22; Dallas, TX,
our customers off mandatory cur­March 23, 24, 25 and 26; Tulsa, ., ~~!!~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~=~~~~~~~
·and 15 percent for homes. That has 
cut overall consumption by 20-25 tailments." OK, March 27; Jefferson City, MO, "/ HAVE CALL YOU BY YOUR percent, he said. Northern Indiana Public Service March 28; Des Peres, MO, March "Our peak load Jan. 17, our Co .. relies on power purchases for 29, and the annual spring concert 
Brothers of 

winter peak, was 2,919,000 kilo­25-30 percent of its total, according on campus March 30. watts. If everything is operating, to spokesman Phil Phelan. Combining familiar school songs 
H ol c 

"We buy power to maintain a with classical marches and operatic y r0 s s 
I&M generates 2, 716,000 kilo­watts," he said. "But very seldom reserve. Sometimes its cheaper to tunes, the concert program will 
buy power than generate it, then feature segments of Glenn Miller Responding through educational,
is everything operating. It's down 
for maintenance or some other we buy it," he said. But recently, songs and Broadway "show stop-health, social, pastoral and other ser­reason. So we could be looking for NIPSCO has had to make other pers." Five solo performers will vice ministries. anywhere from 500,000 to one arrangements when agreements to accompany the 52-member organi­million kilowatts of power." buy electricity fell though. On Feb. zation. 
Coal is used to generate half the 24, I&M reduced the power avail­Director Robert O'Brien, 
able for sale to NIPSCO by 21 assisted by James Phillips and Fr.
electricity produced by I&M and its nuclear power plant in Michigan percent, he said, and "we were cut George Wiskirchen, will open the produces another 37 percent. back on a short-term agreement, concerts with the traditional but that was suspended." "Notre Dame, Our Mother" and
"We have been burning oil Among the remaining large elec­close with the rousing "Victory
whenever we can. That has helped somewhat also,'' Widenhofer said. tric companies, Southern Indiana March." Music of the Baroque, "But it's extremely expensive oil. Gas & Electric makes "insignifi­Classical, Romantic and Contem­
cant purchases," according to porary Periods will provide the
There go the electric bills." 
remainder of the program.
Public Service Indiana, the spokeswoman Carole Di_ehm. state's largest utility serving 490,000 customers in 69 countries, implemented the mandatory power cutbacks Feb. 20. Currently, power imported from the West constitutes 20 percent of the util­ity's demand, according to spokes-, man David Vincent. 
"We are physically limited by the way the system is spread out Our Specialty: and the way the generating stations 
lllliiliii~~M~~Iiililtil• Oven Baked 
are placed on the system,'' he said. ''The power capability on each of 
APPLE PANCAKES
the lines would limit the amount of power we could bring into the 
Extra large, using fresh apples
system and still operate it safely." PSI relies on coal to produce 98 
& pure sugar cinnamon glaze
percent of its electricity. Oil fired generation and hydro-electric 
us 31 (Dixieway) North il Roseland 
-power make up the balance: When the total is insufficient to 
272~7433 across trom Holiday Inn 
meet demands, Vincent said the utility looks elsewhere. 
I****·****•*!Cit.•-••***-** 
JUal__J~~~~~~~~----j;~~T~h~u;rs~d~a~y~,~~~a~rc~h~9~~19~7~8~------~.-----------------.-----------------------------------------------------.
Tracksters· win 
[Continued from page 12] 

ger displayed a strong performance · with firsts in both the 880-yard run at 2:39.3, and a leap of five feet to take the high jump by virtue of fewer misses. 
Ann Hesburgh, also a freshman, placed a very close\second in the 880-yard run with 2:39.5. Although the Irish also took a first in the long jump, they are lacking in depth in their field events and have few sprinters. "We are hoping to round out our team with some of the women from the basketball team now that their season is over." Coach Paul Taylor stated_. 
The young team of twenty, mostly freshman, is coached by Paul Taylor and Larry Carcare. In their first year .as a club, the tracksters face a competitive sched­ule. The Irish will meet several larger schools at the Purdue Invita­tional on April I. Four more outdoor meets will follow, includ­ing two days of competition at Bowling Green. 
Helen Weber, miler and cocap­tain. viewed their first home meet as "one more big step for Notre Dame women's track. We couldn't have done it without the help of Coach Astrid Hotvedt." 
Strategy 

[Continued from page 121\ 
Defensively, the Irish will find that the key will be sweeping the boards. The Cougars lget 63 points per contest from the frontcourt whik outrebounding their opponents by seven caroms per game. The Irish are a strong rebounding team in the zone but Houston does have the capability to run a pattern offense if need by as is indicated by the scoring of the frontcourt players. 
Additionally, the Irish will have to key the transition portion of the game as the Cougars \will try to establish their running game. In the transition Notre Dame will look to force turnovers as the Cougars average almost 19 per contest. 
When the Irish have the ball: Dave Batton returned from his two and one-half game sabbatical with 14 points and eight rebounds in the second half against Loyola. The question for the Irish offense on Sunday remains when will Duck Williams return from his. Williams could muster but two points in his last two outings and if Sunday turns into a computer-scored contest the Irish will need William's 13 points a game. Rich Branning was giving a clinic on playing point guard during the better parat of the Loyola game. Branning played nearly flawless in netting 13 points and handing out five assists. 
Up front Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson played with the ability that makes one wonder if they should stil be referred to as "freshmen." Aggressive, yet disciplined they will go a long way to aiding in the establishment of a tempo that is deliberate and sustained, did a tempo that favors the Irish. Bill Laimbeer and Bruce Flowers did not contribute to the scoring column with any great degree this past weekend but that too will have to change as the Irish must earn second and third tries should the game turn into a high-scoring battle. 
Defensively, the Cougars are a pressing team utilizing a full-court 
cont'd. 

match-up defense. Quick and strong, the Houston club has forced its 
opponents to commit over 22 turnovers per game. If the Irish approach 
that number they could be in extreme danger. Freshman Stan Wilcox and 
Orlando Woolridge have been effective in breaking the press in their 
reserve roles. Poise, stamina and concentration on the part of these two 
first year players along with the rest of the squad will provide the result as 
to the effectiveness of the Houston press. 
Intangibles: Turnovers and free throw shooting have been the sources 
of the Irish failures this season. With Houston's propensity to play a 
running game, a high-risk game, the team that minimizes the turnovers 
and thus gets more opportunities to score will have the edge. The Irish 
average 15 turnovers per contest, yet must keep the total under that if -they are to battle the quicker Cougars. 
Houston at . 706 from the free throw line is not much better than the 
Irish who hit a lowly .698. Yet, this year's team has been unable to salt 
games away, with the exception of Marquette, with pressure free-throw 
shooting. 

But, the Irish are bigger inside than the Cougars and play defensively in 
a way that ·can dictate the tempo of the game. If the Irish can handle the 
offensive boards they will negate the Houston running game. If the Irish 
cat1 throw a wrench in the Houston offense with the changing defensive 
fronts that are a mainstay of the Irish success then Notre Dame will have 
the advantage. 

The game will be decided in the first half if the Irish come out cold and 
can't establish any momentum thus letting the Cougars run away from 
them. The running game thrives on defensive rebounding and a 
turnover-forcing defense. The Irish have the ability to control the boards 
leaving it to the defense to control the tempo allowing the Irish to 
concentrate on limiting their offensive mistakes. 
; Thursday, March 9, 1978 
the observer 11. 
ND swimmers finish second 
The Notre Dame swim team 
ended its 1977-78 season on a ·positive note by finishing second in the Motor City Invitational in Detroit last weekend. Despite failing to win an event on the final day, the Irish amassed 507 points, second to Oakland (Mich.), who 
won the title with 626 points. 
Dennis Stark's swimmers estab­
lished five varsity records in the 
three-day meet, two apiece by 
freshman John Komora and senior 
Andy Petro. 
Komora won the 200-yard indi­
vidual medley in a record-setting 
time of 2:01.019 and he also swam 
the 400-yard individual medley in a 
record time of 4:21.209. 
Petro established his varsity 
records in the breaststroke events. 
He placed fourth in the 100-yard 
breaststroke with a time of 1:02.934 
and fifth in the 200-yard breast­
stroke with a time of 2:16.947. 
The fifth Irish record was set by sophomore Mark Chiles in the 200-yard backstroke with a second­place time of2:00.457, breaking his own mark of 2:00.994 set last year. Chiles also finished fourth in the 100-yard backstroke with a clocking of 56.69. 
Senior sprinter Ed Fitzsimons placed second in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 22.077 and diver Joe Caverly finished fourth off the three-meter platform with a total of 406.75 'points. 
"I was extremely pleased with everyone's performance over the all, I'm very pleased with the way weekend," said Stark. "As al­· the season went.'' ways, all the swimmers looked ' The Irish finished 5-S in their forward to this meet and five dual meet shcedule and won their varsity records is evidence that we Invitational Relay meet at the were ready for the challenge. Over beginning of the season. 
Aragon begins preparation 
While his teammates take the weekend off, Notre Dame freshman middle-distance runner Chuck Aragon, who qualified in the 880-yard dash at the Central Col­legiate Meet on February 18, will run in the first heat Friday after­noon. If he qualifies he will run in the championship heat Friday evening. 
"It will be very difficult for Chuck to make the finals," admits his coach, Joe Piane. "But I really think he can do it. There's no question that he has the potential. Believe me, the competition will be reaIIy stiff. " 
The track team hiked its season dual-meet record to 3-0 as it defeated a solid Drake squad, 84-47. Notre Dame swept the Bulldogs in four events while taking first place in eight events. 
"I was extremely pleased with out performance,'' commented Piane, whose Irish tracksters lost to Drake by 45 points last year. "It is a good inidcation of how well our program is progressing. We scored points where we didn't think we couid. We didn't think we could sweep the 60-yard dash or the shot put. 
Piane cited the performances of Bob Caffrey in the high jump, Dave Betlach in the long jump and George Maddeo' s pole vault as "very satisfying." "We had some disappointments on an individual level but as a team we ran extremely well," Piane com­
mented. 
Kuhlman resigns 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. [AP]· Hank Kuhlman, specialty team and of­fensive backfield coach for Notre Dame's football team, has resigned to take a similar job with the Chicago Bears, Irish Coach Dan Devine said Wednesday. 
In addition, Devine ...u,uulull;:cul• that former Irish linebacker Gene Smith will replace Francis Peay as head coach of the junior varsity squad. Peay resigned last mQnth fo accept a coaching position at the University of California at Berk­eley. 
Valdiserri awaits championships 
Notre Dame's women fencers 

;Oncluded their 1978 campaign this past weekend by winning two of 
ee meets, making Tom Coye's 
swordswomen 9-3 on the year. The Irish were defeated, 8-1, at 
ayne State on Friday, before 
defeating Case Western Reserve and Oberlin College by repective scores of 7-2 and S-4 Saturday at Cleveland. 
Notre Dame's Kathy Valdiserri qualified for the women's national championships by her performance at Sunday's National lntercollegi­ate Women's Fencing Association Region Vll qualifying round at Ohio State. 
The senior captain qualified on an individual basis, winning five of seven bouts in the competition. Among her wins were triumphs :over last year's Great Lakes win­ner, Wisconsin-Parkside's Theresa Swenson, and this year's Big Ten Champ, Lorna Girard of Wisconsin. 
V aldiserri advances to the wo­men's finals, slated for the Univer­sity of Pennsylvania, from March 29 to April 1. 
The top three teams in the region Wayne State, Ohio State and Wisconsin, qualified for the Philadelphia finals. Notre Dame's women squad, which finished with a 12-16 mark on the day, wound up in fifth place in the competition. 
Monday it was announced that Valdiserri and Cathy Buzard will be Notre Dame's representatives in this weekend's Great Lakes Fenc­ing championships. Unlike the men fencers, the Irish swordswo­men will not have to rely on a strong Great Lakes performance for entrance to the nationals. 
rt~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~ii~~;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~ 
. , , , DISIICY 
-~-' ~Gr---.•-~ ....~U~ ~ 
· · ­1W eekdays-7 :00-9:15 Sat.Sun. I :15-3:20-5:15­:30 
277-1522 

Held Over 11th Week! Nominated for 5 Academy Awards! 
Neil 
Simon's 
RICHARD DREYFUSS MARSHA MASON 

Weekdays 7:15-9:40 Sat. Sun. 

-. 

FOR SALE Need ride to Cleveland this weekend. Call
Two students need ride to Fort Myers,
LDST&FOUND Kathy 1264.
Fla. or vicinity for spring break. Will
CLASSIFIEDS 
Pioneer CT-4141A tape deck; KLH-17X
share driving and expenses. Call Brian at
Lost: 1pr. Timberline boots, lost in ACC 1153. speakers Retail $430, will sell for $200. Your vote coun1s Vote Damgh, Carden,b-ball courts above Ice rink. Sat. night. Call Terry 3014. and Pope on March 13.
·---­
NOTICES Call Mike 1759. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer-year-round. 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now Vote Damgh, Carden, 1nd Pope. It's
Eur~. S. America, Australia, Asia, etc.
Attention May Grads Lost: One expensive black ski glove near available. Call 8982. -part of the plan.
March 13 Is the last day to apply for a North Dining Hall on Feb. 21. Give my All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses 
MORRISSEY LOAN. March 141s the last pal~. sightseeing. Free information ­
hand a break and call1653. Must sell two America tickets. Good SMC Junior Clau Invites you to Join In
day to pick up loans. NO EXCEPTIONS. Wnte: BHP Co., Box 44!10, Dept. 14, 
seats. Matt 1374. with spring vacation: SUnday, Man:h 12,
Berkeley, CA 94704.
Lost: Near the Library Bar, a set of keys "Girls an the Beach" 1 great beach party
MORRISSEY LOAN 

to Rm. 217. If found, call Patty 4287. 75 Silver Camaro, terrific buy, Cala Nela flick featuring the Beacli poysI
WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English con­
Student loans. $20-150. Due in 30 days. 1 
272-<1342.
versation. No experience, degree, or
percent monthly Interest. M-F 11:15­
Lost: Set of keys In small black pouch -Ride needed to Cols. Ohio this weekend.
12:15 LaFortune Basement Japanese required. Send long, stamped,
lost March 1st from B2 Parking Lot to Vivitar zoom lens. 85-205 mm Minolta Call 8820 Paul
self-addressed envelope for details.
Engr. Bldg. If found call Ella 7466. mount, $130. Russ 288-2069.
Japan-181, 411 W. Center, Centralia,
Logan Volunteers and Interested stu­Need ride to Milwaukee • ltavt Frl or Sat
WA 98531.
dents: The St. Patrick's Day Dance Is this 
Lost: Class rlnQ In snowbank halfway Why pay more? Flanner Records has all [3-10 or 3-11] Call Kate 1264.
Friday, March 10, 7:30-10:30 p.m. In the 
between Alumm and the Guardhouse. $7.981ist Lp's for only $5.29. All $6.981ist sed for the occasion and help the adults Reward. Call Dave 1582. New York City for spring break. We can't LP's for only $4.59. (plus tax) Flanner Ride needed to Cols. Ohio this weekend.
basement of Keenan Hall. Come dres­Need ride for three to the 'Big Applie' Records 322 Flanner Phone 2741. Call 8820 Pauland children from Logan dance the night Found: One General Motors car key on afford the train so call Tom, Doug, or 
·---­
John 3414.
away with the tunes from a live band! 
the sidewalk between McCandless and NO fight song automobile hom for sale. Ugly man Is coming. Save your pennies.
Any questions or comments call Art the McCandless parking lot. Call the Contact Kathy 2114-43115 for Info.
Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy McCandless Hall desk at 4473. Need ride to Florida March 17th. Call Lenten confessions heard Monday thru(284-4391).$ Kathy 6819.
·----Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7 
Found: One pocket calculator between p.m. Anyone wishing to make appoint­
To All Interested Students: The Mental Need ride to Long Island for spring break. PERSONALS
Howard & Morrissey Call 6768 to ment for different time of confession may
Health Association of St. Joe County identify. Call 4-1-4606. 
Ann, phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820.
needs your support. One to one vol­Happy birthday!!
unteers are needed to aid In the socializa­Two rides needed to Long Island or 
Haircuts, trims, styles-cheap! SMC 4530
tion of emotionally restored men and WANTED nearby vicinity for break. Call Jean 8085 Love, 
Pete Betsy
women. Call Mary Anne Mulcahy 288-or John 3470 will share In expenses.Need ride to Colorado during sprl~g
4504 or Joe Hauflalre at the MHA Now Is the time for all uglies to get those
234-1049. break. Call Max 3510. Ride needed to North Jersey-NYC area Well, Section D, Alumni Hall struck 
for spring break. Please call Bruce 3587. again -14 casualties, 4critically wounded pennies. Need ride to Chicago-West side Fri. 3-10. but agood time was had by all. How do --­Ride needed to N.Y. State area for spring 
Call1608 or 1610. you macho men do It-we're all in awe! 3rd lloor Pangborn announces secession
break. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. Need ride to Albuquerque, New Mexico from hall. Anyone Interested In annex­
---for break. Will share expenses and 
Need ride to D.C. a after Emil. Bob driving. Call Debbie at 4-1-4898. Please Identify yourself! MRJ ation call 101 Stavola DADA 8435. SMC
Every student can vote in the May take notice.
8643.
Indiana primary. If Interested, register 
There may be no kay to Touhy's mouth, 4-1-4001. Need ride to Syracuse area for break. Call Leaving March 17. Also need ride back to but the key to success Is expenence. Vote Going home over break? Transportation
before spring break by calling Mo at Need ride to Detroit for spring break. 
7965. Tuohy, Wisted, and Mullaney. March 13. available to Virginia, Texas, New Jersey,
NO on March 27. Call Katie 6751. 
and Pennsylvania. Call Auto DrlveawayTyping. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
67!1-9786.
Ride needed to N.Y. State area for spring Rides to Florida (preferably Ft. Lauder­Paul, We're on our way to recovery. Accurate, fast typing. MRS. DONOHO break. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. dale area) Will pay expenses. Call5465 or Love, SMC Mind Warp Kids! 
Experience is the key! Vote Tuohy,4796.
232-o746 Hours 8a.m. to 6 p.m. 
2 girls need ride to Denver-Colorado Play ping pong at the Ping Pong Parlor -Wixted and Mullaney for SMC student Springs area for spring break. Will share Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Will 836 Protage $1.50 per person per hr. We Body officers.
Typing Done fu~nish everything but your opponent.

R11sonable retes driving & expenses. Sue 3888. share driving and expenses. Call Rich Bnng a partner & show your stuff. Elect Tuohy, Wixted, Mellany for St.
8278 after 11:30 p.m.
Call BOll& 

Three sunlovlng students wiShing to Mon-Frl5:00 p.m.-10:00 Sat. & Sun. Mary's student government. 1978-1979. reduce your Florida vacation expense. Need ride to and from Boston-Provi­10:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Phone 234-1999. Freshwomen of Lyons, the men of the
Typing done In home. Fast accurate Need ride and-or accomodations In dence for break. Will pay $$. Call 
Lauderdale or Daytona. Call 8820 Paul Wopatula Section 11-C Grace Saturday Alumni Alleys await you this Friday In
reasonable. Close to campus. Call 272-Maryanne 4-4762. 
Night. Be lllerell the Bulla Shed. Be there, Aloha!
7866 anytime. 
Two need ride to Tampa-Clearwater area Ride wanted to Ft. Lauderdale for sprlng
for Spring break. 4-5706. break. for one person. Tom 232-4499. Is that Tim Grothaus peering out from To the Breed of 'Med?'
Get to class or work on time. Call Bob's 
under a snowbank? In the passion pit live BUTCH &Wake-up Service 287-4971. 
CONNORS to the~ of tsnnls they do
Spor1S lllustratld Need ride to Toledo on March 17. Will 
CaurtCiub pay. Kim 7856. 'Restlln' Rob -congrats and ~ luck. no honor. Jimmy s problem Is obvlousDissertations, manuscripts, etc. typed. 
Now accepting applications for full and Sorry I never got to attend a • game." A enough, those tight blue jeans he sureIBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters 287-4171 part time help. ·Pro. Social Director Unified Buddy does stuff, And poor little Butch, your
-Need ride to New York March 17. Will .., 
problem's tl)e same. so bovlously neither
NEED QUALITY TYPING? ExeaJtary, Salary. Nursery attendant, Desk sales share driving and $$$$. Please call Torn 
staff, Teachlng professionals -Hourly at 3828. 3-8-1. Happy 21st to one of the greatest can win the game. For you see, these twoInc. Professional Typing Service IBM 
wages. 205 W. Edison. 259-8585. people 1know, one of the most preverted, boys were never taught that balls are
Correcting Selectrlcs. $.85 per page 
too! All my love, B. B. E. needed In the winner's slot!
minimum. Call 232-()898 "When you Two RAMBLING guys need ride to Fort 
A Powerful Position

want the Best'' Resumes: $3.00 per page. Rldl needed to Lang lsllnd or NYC area. Lauderdale for break. Brian 1387 or Hugh
Mllll8889. 1380. 217 HC says Hal Brand should take a swim for his 21st. How about it, Alumni Wow!
Needed ride to Houston for spring break. 
Hall? Chip Lee, Stop snickering! You won't
Call Cathy 4-1-4559. Need ride to Wash., D.C. for break. Need ride to northern NJ for spring
Marice 1312. break. Call Kathy 1264. 
Halsy Palsy, Hear you're going for a laugh when I can't fit Into the wedding
Saturday Red Is back again! Despite the 
small turnout last week, the Notre Need rides to Laudenllle, spring break. 3 need ride to DC for break. Call Dave swim on Thursday, Would you like an dress! 
Call Mary Sharon 781Z. 8107. audience? We wouldn't miss It for the
Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retard­world! Happy 21st! Love & kisses, Mary, Mo, Happy 19th! Have agreat year! Joed wishes to remind all the Logan Kathy, Laurie, Iris (your sweethearts
Volunteers and Interested students that Need ride to Los Angeles over break. Need ride to Little Rock, Ark. for spring Mo, Another year -live It upl Happiest
we are having Saturday Red. this CallDebbie 8485. break. Lisa 4-1-4!109. from 217 HC) 19th birthday! Annie · Saturday, March 11, 1978. The place Is 
Logan Center (one block south of the Ride needed to Wash., D.C. for spring Going to Boston? Need ride, will pay Vote TWM for SMC student body 
officers. Moira O'Leary, You're one person who
football stadium) and the time Is 9:00 break. prefer Thurs. March 16, Call John expenses. Call Ann 6751. 
deserves to be 19. You've alreadY started8705.
a.m. to 11:30a.m. We hope to see you all 
T Is for Tuohy -SBP the year out on the wrona foOt1 Happythere bright and early Saturday morning! 
W Is for Wixten -SBVP b-day and happy hoppingl Love ya! JoNeed ride to Boston area March 17. Will Found: In production room -gold earringAny questions feel free to call Art Koebel 
(287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391) share driving and expenses. Call Tony at and sliver ring. To claim, contact Oblen­studtmt affairs MIs for Mullaney -SBVP. and Annie 
1Gi. er office. Academic affairs. 
.
.... 

.. ~ .. . ' ~ .,._. ·.· .·.• .,......·." 
.'. -:· . . •, ... ' .. ,., -~ ". 





Thursday, March 9, 1978
12 the observer 

Batton: NO's inside/outside threat 
by Paul Steventon one by one,'' Batton explained. one is slated for this Sunday in 
Sports Editor "However, there is no pressure on Tulsa, Oklahoma against Houston. 
the individual except that which he "This will be the second time 
Every basketball coach has to places on himself to do better." I've played at Oral Roberts," make crucial decisions on what Yes, the NCAA's are a culmina­Batton recalled. ''The first time type of athlete to recruit. I;>oes a tion of a year of hard work. But, for was my freshman year when we team needa guard who can hit from Dave Batton, it's been four years of beat Kansas.'' 
the outside or does the squad need hard work in an attempt to achieve The Irish were unsure a couple of a man who will be physical inside. that goal But, even after his tenure weeks ago whether or not they Rarely can one find a person with in South Bend, there could be a would definitely receive an NCAA both of these attributes, but the future for Batton in the pro ranks, bid. But, after victories over North Fighting Irish basketball team has especially for a big man that can Carolina State and Marquette, the' been aided the past four seasons by shoot from the outside. Irish truly earned the right to just this type of player in Dave "Playing professionally is a goal participate in the tournament. Batton. of most athletes when they're Right now, it's time to prepare The six foot nine inch senior has kids," Batton commented. "But, for Houston and try to duplicate the 
been instrumental in Notre Dame's only if the abilities are there can . same feat that was achieved in success over the last four seasons. those dreams be fulfilled." Tulsa three years ago. This year, undertaking the role of Batton certainly has proven "Team wise, we're very excited 
cocaptain, Batton has the added throughout his four year career at about receiving a bid," Batton task of setting the trend for the rest Notre Dame that the abilities are stated. "Houston is like Marquette of the players on the squad. present. But, Batton emphasizes only they have more depth and are 
The Springfield, Pennsylvania that before any thought goes into a more physical. They're a run and native has responded by averaging future in the pros, another dream gun type team. We're working on 
14.5 points a game as well as seven must be fulfilled first -to win the a few things and the main thing is rebounds per contest. Thus, the National Championship. that we're just going to try to shut Irish "Colt" holds the top spot in "It's a great thrill to participate down their running game. When both categories. in the NCAA's, but this time it will we can shut them down, we can 
In addition, the Notre Dame 1 ' be a little different because it's my control the tempo of the game. If senior has a field goal percentage last year. One of my ambitions that we can shut down what they do to back his statistics. Hitting 57.4 I wrote in my high school yearbook best, the rest will fall into place." 
percent from the field and working was that I wanted to play with the Well, this will be the last just as effectively inside as out is a best. If you win the National oportunity for Batton to compete in major reason Batton has helped the think I've gotten a Jot more toughest basketball schedules in all Championship, then you can truly the NCAA tournament, a final Irish attain their 20-6 ledger. But, physical and been more aggressive the land. That fact, plus the say you played with the best. A chance for him to achieve his goals. each season has been one of as far as rebounding goes. This academic and athletic heritage at National Championship is some­In a couple of weeks, the nation improvement for the senior eco-improvement stems from the fact Notre Dame, helped draw Batton thing you will always remember will find out if Batton's high school nomics major. that I've had the opportunity to to du Lac. and treasure, especially at Notre dream will become a reality and if 
"I think the area in which I've play against the top players in the "My first trip out here was for Dame." Notre Dame can accomplish what improved most is my inside country." the 1973 USC game," Batton But, as Batton sees the situation, no school has done before, win the game," Batton commented. "I Yes, Notre Dame plays one of the recalled. "A big part of my it is going to take five superbly National Championship in footballPatrick Smith F.=======================================:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=====:==============:::::::::::::::::::=:=::: decision to attend Notre Dame was played basketball games. The first and basketball in the same year. 
Dave Batton hu averaged 14.5 points and seven rebounds per game this season and •Mill be a key factor in Notre Dame's NCAA success. 
the school spirit I witnessed at that  
The First Obstacle  football game. If there's a place to go for the best academics and the most publicity, Notre Dame is it." Thus, Batton was largely influ­enced by the student body and his  Tom Desmond Strategy  
:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;=:=:=:=:=============:=:=:=:=:=========================================:;======================== Overtime This weekend, the Notre Dame basketball team will face their first  chance to be involved with the spirit that maintained a peak through an entire rainy football  Six-Pointers  
obstacle in the quest for the National Championship. Sunday's  Saturday. That spirit, Batton feels,  Those interested in college basketball will be talking about the pairings  
competition is the culmination of a season of hard work and de­ is a tremendous part of the success  for this season's NCAA tournament for months to come. The first thought  
termination.  of the Notre Dame basketball team.  that comes to mind is one of irrationality on the part of the selection and  
The Fighting Irish have finished their 1977-78 campaign with a 20-6  "The student body is a major  seeding committee. From the last minute decision to pair the number-one  
ledger. This marks the fourth time in the last five years in which Digger  part of our winning," Batton  at large team in each region against the number-three seeded automatic  
Phelps' cagers have achieved their20 win goal. The fact that Notre Dame  stressed. "They get you juiced up.  (instead of the number-four automatic) all the way to the tournament  
has been able to attain this standard over the' past several years is remarkable when one considers the schedule the Irish undertake.  You get a positive feeling from the crowd, and when you get that  ·within the tournament in the west regional and the weak-sister regional in the east.  
Notre Dame was one of the preseason favorites to capture the National  feeling you want to play better and  Already complaints have been heard in Milwaukee and Lexington,  
Championship in March. However, throughout the course of the year,  score and put that feeling right  Kentucky about the probably second-round match-up between Kentucky  
many Irish fans were doubtful if this claim was truly legitimate. Several losses over the semester break plus some defeats late in the  back into the fans." The fans have been instrumental  and Marquette--the class squads of the mideast. And, how about the masochism of the committee that put Kansas, Arkansas and North  
season, left many people in question as to the capabilities of Phelps' seventh squad. However, even though Notre Dame has suffered a half  in numerous contests during Bat­ton's life at the Golden Dome.  Carolina in with New Mexico, UCLA and San Francisco. One has to wonder about the politics of it all. Aity one of those three at-large squads  
dozen setbacks, their shot at the top spot is just as meaningful as if they were undefeated.  Victories over UCLA, San Francis­co and most recently Marquette are  shipped to the west could have been put in the mideast, as could DePaul St. John's or Notre Dame have gone mideast or east. But, with Big Ten  
Whether a team finishes the year undefeated like Indiana two seasons  excellent examples of when the  Commissioner Wayne Duke a big man on the selection committee, the Big  
ago, or whether they end up with seven losses like Marquette in 1977 does  team and the student body have  Ten representatives Michigan State and Indiana have, on paper at least,  
not matter. The cage squad that can put everything together when it  both been at their peak.  relatively east roads to the regional finals in the mideast and east.  
counts, the team that can capture five critical games at the conclusion of  Now, although it doesn't seem  The real crime of the tournament however is the havoc wreaked upon  
the year deserves National Championship recognition. Regardless of  possible, Batton's career is nearing  the pairings by the conference tournaments. What is 14-15 Missouri  
what highlights and pitfalls have occurred throughout the season, the  completion. The NCAA tourna­ doing in the NCAA tournament? Why they deserve to be there because  
team that proves themselves to be the best at the end certainly deserves  ment will be the last time Batton  they won the Big Eight Conference tournament. Any team that wins that  
the final number-one ranking.  will don an Irish uniform.  deserves a bid. Right? That's ridiculous.  
Notre Dame's record over the past season is one to be proud of.  Every year, Batton's been on a  There are many super teams (Detroit, Illinois· State, ISU) not in the  
One-half ofthe basketball team's contests were against squads which will  team that has been invited to the  NCAA yet· a team with a losing record will play another c_onference  
be attending post-season tournament action. All but two of these  NCAA's. Each and every time, the  runner-up (UTAH) while the conference champion during the regular  
opponents will be participating in the NCAA's, while the other pair of  Irish have won their opening game,  season must battle UCLA.  
rivals will be playing in the NIT.  only to falter in the second.  There has to be a better way as AI McGuire suggests. He advocates the  
But enough about the Irish and their performance over the past year.  Although the senior cocaptain  automatic bid going to the regular season conference champion and the  
Now, the attention must shift to Tulsa, Oklahoma where the Irish will  would like to break that trend, he  NCAA has the disgression of inviting the conference tourney winner  
encounter the University of Houston in the Midwest Regional.  does not feel there's any extra  should the money-hungry conferences feel the need for such an event.  
The Cougars share only one common opponent with Notre Dame, that  stress on him personally.  Whatever is decided the pairings for this year's tournament should serve  
team being Baylor. Houston split with the Bears, downing them the first  "When you get to the NCAA's,  as symptoms that something is ill with the tournament and a remedy is  
time, 100-89, while losing the second in Waco by one point. The Irish  there's pressure to win each game  needed.  
were fortunate enough to trounce the Bears by 41 points in their only  All of the bickering and complaining doesn't change the fact that the  
clash. However, at present, the Cougars are hot, having won their last seven  Women victorious  Irish will battle Houston this Sunday in the first round of the tournament at Oral Roberts University in Tulsa. The game will be on national  
outings, including four in the Southwest Conference tournament. This  by Kathy McLann  television as the second game on Sunday, slated for a 4 p.m. South  
winning streak is a result of a lineup change the Cougars made just before  Sports Writer  Bend-time start. Here is how the match up looks as Digger Phelps will  
that string was initiated. Houston moved Cecil Rose to forward and  guide his squad to their fifth consecutive tournament and the 15th in Notre  
brought Ken Williams off the bench to fill the guard slot while retiring  The Notre Dame women's track  Dame history:  
Cedric Fears from the starting lineup.  team emerged victorious in their  When Houston has the ball: The Cougars are ranked fifth in the nation  
This change has proven effective for the Cougars, enabling them to  home triangular meet on Saturday,  in scoring with a 91.9 per game average. Houston fits into the mold of a  
improve their balanced scoring attack. Four of Houston's starters average  March 4. With a score of 62 points,  "run and gun" show as they put the ball up at a pace of 74 shots per  
better than 13 points per game. That is quite a transition from last year's  they defeated Manchester College  contest. Forward Cecil Rose (6-5, 190) is the leading scorer as the recently'  
squad which relied mainly on Otis Birdsong.  (39 points) and St. Joseph's Col­ converted guard is averaging 17.7 points per game. Frontcourt mates  
One interesting point about the Cougars is that they force an average of  lege (with 20 points). The women  Charles Thompson and Mike Shultz are the second and third scorers with  
23 turnovers a game. They' are known to give full court man-to-man  placed first in 9 out of 13 events.  averages of 17.3 and 13.4 respectively. Thompson, a burly 6-7, 220  
pressure for the entire contest.  The Irish were particularly  pounder utilizes his physique to garner 8.4 rebounds per game, most of  
. Notre Dame definitely fluctuates in the turnover category. In their  strong in their distance events,  them off the offensive board. Shultz (6-9,220) was the MVP of the SWC  
come-from-behind victory over Marquette, the Irish had only 11  sweeping both the one and two­ tournament and led the conference with over 10 rebounds per game.  
turnovers. However, earlier in the season against Villanova, Notre Dame  mile runs in all three places.  In the backcourt the cougars are small, but quick. Ken Williams in a  
- sufferc:d 26. The Irish must truly be at a peak and ready to guard against  Freshman Kathy Merra ran an  recent addition to the starting line-up allowing Rose to move to forward  
this pressure which has hurt them at several crucial points during the  especially good 2-mile at 12:09.5,  fulltime. William scores at a 10.3 points per game clip in the balanced  
season.  matching her best time ever in that  Cougar attack. Ken Ciolli runs the club contributing four points and five  
The Irish have proven their championship caliber several times  event. She was followed by juniors  assists per contest. Guy Lewis does indeed have a bench that is paced by  
throughout the year. When Notre Dame had to defeat North Carolina  Liz Berry and Adelia Malvezzi.  forward Cedric Fears who was a starter for most of the season and hits for  
State and Marquette to insure an NCAA bid, the Irish rose to the occasion.  The winning miler was freshman  8.4 per contest and George Walker who contributed six for six shooting  
Now, another strenuous test awaits the Notre Dame cagers. The Irish will  Ann Marie Pierson at 5:49.4,  against Texas in the SWC title game in a reserve forward role. Mark  
be competing against the elite in college basketball and only solid  followed by Helen Weber and Barb  Trammel, a 5-11 fireplug' is the teams third guard with a four point  
performances for five straight games, a style displayed in the Marquette  Boylan. Freshman Laura Leitzin­ average.  
clash, can allow_NQtre Dame to realize their goal in St. Louis.  [Contlnued on page 10]  [Continued on page 10)  



