Kathy Schieber, a St. Mary's senior, with balloons tied around her neck, served food last night in the SMC dining hall. [Photo byMark Ricca] 
Judicial Council discusses parietalsredefinition 
by Tom Jackman Staff Reporter 
The Judicial Council met last night in the basement of BreeD­Phillips to discuss its role in the Student Government proposal to officially redefine parietals in du Lac as a hall offense. Parietals are now classified as a university offense. 
The council, still in its first year of existence, is composed of the chairmen of each hall's Judicial Board. Under the proposed duLac changes, the members would be­come the ones responsible for trying parietal cases. 
Dean of Students James Roemer stated last week that the informal enforcement of parietals is already kept on the hall level normally. A ments of marijuana violations, proposal drafted by the Hall Presi­although possession or sale of the dents Council on Tuesday, with the drug is considered a serious of­assistance of Judicial Coordinator fense by the University. Jayne Rizzo, would formally give A hand count at the at the meeting this jurisdiction to the hall J­showed that no cases had been boards. tried among council members pre­

The proposal must now be ap­sent last night. Neither J-board proved by the Campus Life Council members, nor hall staffs, have and the Board of Trustees before it brought any cases before their becomes official. Rizzo said that individual J-boards. she is "optimistic" that the propo­sal will pass both tests, "with a certain amount of lobbying." 
Members of the Judicial Council anticipate that the administration's major argument against the policy will center around a fear that students will not enforce parietal rules. One example of this is marijuana 
Under hall J-board jurisdiction, there have been very few enforce-


House sustains veto 
WASHINGTON, [AP] -Under 
intensive White House lobbying, 
the House handed President Car­
ter a major legislative victory 
yesterday by sustaining his veto of 
a $10.2 billion public works bill as 
inflationary and wasteful. 
The 223-190 House roll call fell 53 
votes short of the two-thirds major­
ity necessary to override Carter's 
veto. Had the House voted to 
override, a similar majority would 
have been required in the Senate to 
enact the bill over the president's 
objections. 
After the vote, Carter said in a 
statement: "This has been a tough 
fight. I am gratified by the results 
... " He said the vote amounted to 
"a long step in the battle against 
inflation" and that the nation 
"owes a debt to Congress for its 
wise and responsible action." 
Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill had 
warned that the veto--no matter 
what the outcome-would make 
ene~ies for the president just as 
his crucial energy legislation nears 

final passage. . Leaders of both chambers said no effort would be made to rewrite the public works bill to suit Carter before Congress adjourns Oct. 14. Instead, a routine continuing reso­lution would guarantee financing fr existing projects, while new ones in the measure will await action next year. 
Earlier, the president vetoed the public works bill in the name of "fiscal responsibility." He warned Congress he would "continue this process, no matter how unpleasant it is," as long as he receives what he considers wasteful legislation from the Capitol. 
It was Carter's sixth veto and the second to be contested by Con­gress. The first contested veto involved a $37 billion defense authorization bill containing a nu­clear aircraft carrier that Carter opposed. On both occasions, his veto was sustained. 
Before the House showdown, it appeared that congressional senti­ment strongly supported an over­ride of the president's veto of a public works bill whose traditional 
[continued on page 2] 




The Observer 
an in,dependent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
/ 

Vol. XIII, No. ~ / Friday, October•, 1J7It 
Senior Bar business off a bit; Schlageter feels he knows why 
by Mark Rust Senior Staff Reporter 

• Business at the Senior Bar is off a bit this year, and Mike Schlageter, general manager, feels he knows why. 
"I think there are two reasons," Schlageter said last night. "First, I think a lot of seniors have a bad feeling about Senior Bar this year because they think last year's senior class was taken advantage of. The second--if you can believe this--some people have told me that they don't like the crowds." 
But the crowds have not been showing up at Senior Bar with any great consistency this year. Schla­geter, a senior Business Admini­stration major, feels the primary problem is one of image, a result of the bad feelings left from last year when the bar took in approximately $25,000 in profits. 
"Every penny of that, plus an extra SSOOO, went back into this place for this year's seniors," Schlageter pointed out. "Last year's managaers were ... very efficient. They raised the price Of beer from 35 cents to SO cents. We took last year's profitS, re-invested them for the building this year, and lowered the prices back to 40 cents per beer. As far as I know, that is the lowest price for a twelve ounce beer in town." 
Observing that the $30,000-plus investment accounted for a game room, dance floor, outside land­scaping, new restroomi;, sidewalks, stairways and grills, Schlageter concluded that there was no basis for any senior to feel slighted. 
"I think the seniors are pretty well off. In my opinion we have the nicest place in town for college bars. We've lowered our prices this year. Last year's seniors didn't get the benefit of the renovations--this year's seniors 
do." 

Schlageter analyzed the senior bar image problem. "Too many seniors feel like they are seniors for one year, so Jet's live it up, what the hell. Well what if the seniors of last year would have said that?" Schlageter asked. "What then? And what if we price drinks just to cover expenses this year and don't worry about upkeep for the future. This place isn't going to last forever. If we took that attitude we wouldn't have a Senior Bar to come back to in 20 years. 
But in 20 years, according to Schlageter, a renovated or brand new bar is a very good probability-­as long as the managers keep looking toward the future. 
"The way I feel about;it is that the profit should be weighted toward putting money away for the future. We are a non-profit organization, but the organization needs a little money to survive on in the future." 
[continued oa pap 2] 

The belief was expressed that opposition may also arise simply because the University does not want to lose its control over such an important issue--the sexual mores of its students--although Rizzo feels that "parietals and sexuality are two different things in this matter." 
At present, according to du laC, parietals are defined as follows: 
"Individual halls will set -tnar visitation hours within the follow­ing limits: Visiting hours for . guests of the opposite sex are not to 'begin before 11 a.m. on . anyday and are not to extend beyond 2 
a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights, and midnight on other nights. On home football Satur­days, visitation will begin at 10 a.m." 
r~--------..-:-----tb_&__O_b__SifY---8[-.-------------F-r-id-ay-,-Oct--o--ber--6,:~~ 
News Briefs--------..... 

Modern bard revives lost art
t:=================-:-·=--==-===========World
_:-:-=_ 
Second test-tube baby born 

CALCUTIA, India [API • A three-man research team went on Calcutta television last night to announce that a "test-tube baby" ­the world's second -was born here this week. Earlier, the state-owned Calcutta station broadcast Bengali and English · language news bulletins reporting the team's claims that a seven pound, six ounce baby girl was born Tuesday at an undisclosed nursing home in the city. 
l==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: National 
Defense policy slacking 

WASHINGTON [API· Unless current defense policies are altered or reversed, the ZUnited states faces the prospect of falling dangerously behind the Soviet Union, 'a citizens' group charged yesterday. 
The Committee on Present Danger, formed in 1976, urged reversal of the Carter administration's decision not to build a new penetrating bomber. It also called for the "urgent acquisition of more ready reserves and more arms. · 
-:::::_____=__

::::::::::----=-=-=-=-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===-Local 
Police hault cocain ring 

. FO~T WAYNE, ln_d. [API • Police yesterday arrested three men m ln~1ana and ~ne m <;alifornia in an effort to crack what they descnbed as an mternat1onal cocain ring. 
Allen County Sheriff Charles Meeks said the arrests were the result of a year-long investigation by county and Hammond drug enforcement officials. 

Weather 

Cloudy with 40 percent chance of showers and windy today. High 
, today in the mid 50s. Tonight and tomorrow mostly cloudy and cool. Low tonight in the low 40s. High tomorrow in the mid and upper 50s. 

On Campus Today_------. 
friday, oct. 6 
4 p.m. 
5:15p.m. 
7, 9:15, 
& 11:30 p.m. 7:30 8 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
9 p.m. 
9-10 p.m. 
10-11 p.m. 11 p.m. 

talk, "what is expression?" by dr. rudolph arnheim, spons. by art dept. and nd/smc theatre, mem·. lib. aud. / 
mass and supper, spon. by campus ministry, bull 
shed. 
film, "the sting," engr. aud., $1. 

film festival, "state of seige," washington hall. nd/smc theatre, "lu ann hampton Iaverty oberlan­der," o'laughlin aud., $2.50 (students $2) 
oktoberfest, bier gardens and dance with "hot 
springs," regina lobby. hurricane party, entertainment by "freewheelin," jefferson lounge, $3. ? 
music at the nazz, folk guitar by gene barbanera, nazz (basement of Iafortune). 
music at the nau, smoky joe, nazz. music at the nazz, jim kotorac playing midwest fol guitar, nazz. 
saturday, oct. 7 
9 a.m. 7, 9:30 & 12 p.m. 8 p.m. 8 p.m. 
9:30p.m. 

volleyball, st. mary's invitational tourn., angela ath. facility. film, "a clockwork orange," engr. aud., $1. 
oktoberfest film, "dr. zhivago," carroll hall smc, $1. nd/smc theatre, "lu ann hampton Iaverty oberlan­der," o'laughlin aud., $2.50 (students $2). 
music at the nazz, doug stringer playing neil young and others, nazz. 
sunday, oct. 8 
1 p.m. 2 p.m. 2 p.m. 
7 p.m. 7, 9:30 & 12 p.m. 
8 p.m. 8 p.m. 
smc tennis, st. mary'·s vs. ipu-ft. wayne. 

chess match, nd vs. michigan, basement-lafortune, call 234-9648 for info. mass, spon. by friends of the mentally retarded and 
l'arche, moreau seminary. 

career workshop, "resume," stud affairs conferenc room, smc. film, "a clockwork orange,'''engr. aud., $1. 
recital, edward parmentier-harpsichord, little theatre, smc. 
nd/smc tht>atre, "lu ann hampton Iaverty oberlan­der," o'laughlin aud., smc, $2.50 (students $2). 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP) -Jay O'Callaghan the storyteller is a man straddling the centuries. 
In the tradition of Homer and Virgil and Chaucer, this modern­day bard has revived the almost­forgotten art of storytelling and taken it to spellbound audiences of the television generation. And after five years in his new profes­sion, the would-be novelist thinks it's catching on. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe, 
Jr. Asst. Night Editor: Bill Devitt, Dawn Miller Layout Staff: Karen Knoll, Pat Campbell, Beth Huffmann (lush), Steve Coffey, Zonnie Rot (King of Punk Disco) Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Everybody's old pal, Muley. (Cazzo busy elsewhere) Sports Layout: Mark (I sure with Lisa D. would switch to Mon. nights) Perry Typists: Tricia Meehan, Mary Campbell, Bill Swift, Paula Vernon E.M.T.'s: Me and me, too-­and don't you forget it!!!! Day Editor: Mike Lewis, Maribeth Moran Copy Reader: Phil Cackley, John McGrath Ad Layout: Beth Cutter (It's been fun!), Chris Slatt Photographer: Mark Ritter 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during eum and vacation periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ($ 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. llox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 44556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All repro. duction rights are reserved. 
The 40-year-oid Marshfield, MA, 
resident says he always had a 
knack for spinning good yarns-­
even as a youngster. 
"I've told them all my life," he 
said. "I had the facility to make up 
stories on the spot.'' 
But he had never . considered 
making a living telling stories until 
he quit his teaching job to write 
novels. 
"The medium didn't suit me," 
O'Callaghan said. "But it was 
while writing novels that I made 
up stories for local libraries. I 
began to work on the stories more 
carefully." 
Before long, he earned a position 
of "storyteller in residence" for the 
public school systems in Brookline, 
Quincy, Framingham and Natick, 
MA. 
To say that the lanky O'Callaghan 
tells a story is a considerable 
understatement. His technique is 
far different than the calm droning 
of bedtime stories. 
Schlageter gives reasons 
[continued from page 1] 
Although it is too early for Schlageter to project what the profits will total this year he allowed that there was "1ta way" that the bar will recreate their $25,000 profit feat of last year. If there is profit at the end of the year, it will be only the third time in eleven years that the Senior Bar has not run a deficit. 

He is a theatre troupe inside one body, taking on a different voice for each character, pantomining them, providing his own sound effects. All the elements of his stories--the fear, excitement, surprise and sor­row~·are played acrss his mobile face. 
"I use rhythm, drama, dance, voice, inflections, all of this," he said, stroking his greying beard. "I know I'm writing for an audi­ence that is hearing it. I learned by doing it and I enjoy passing it on." 
House backs Carter veto 

[continued from page 1) political popularity was heightened by election-year procedures. But Carter, portraying himself as siding with inflation-weary Ameri­cans against a free-spending Con­gress, staked his prestige on the outcome. He, his aides and members of his Cabinet spent much of Wednesday and the hours before the showdown House vote yesterday soliciting support for the veto by telephone and in person. Carter himself wrote a personal note appealing for support that was hand-delivered to each member of Congress, and exerted pressure personally on Republican congres­sional leaders at a White House meeting before the vote. When the showdown came, 150 Democrats and 73 Republicans voted to override the veto, while 128 Democrats and 62 Republicans voted to sustain the president. 

5:15 p.m. Saturday 
9: IS .&.m. Sunday 
10:30 a.m. Sunday 
12:15 p.m. Sunday 
7i1S Vespers 


Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C. Rev. Leonard N. Banllli, C.S.C. Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C. 
Rev. Leonard N. Banllli, C.S.C. 
2934 E. mcKinley 1725 N. ltonwood 1426 mlsh. ave 4401 S. michigan St., S. Bend 




Friday, October 6, liJ78 
'The Iceman Cometh' again 
by Mike Shields Staff Reporter 
Break out the down parkas, ski 

caps, and long underwear, another 
South Bend winter is just around 
the corner. If the last two winters 
are any indication, Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students will have a 
white Christmas, if not Thanks­
giving and Easter. 
Meteorologists seem to disagree 

about this coming winter, but 
either way the city of So6th Bend is 
taking no chances with snow re­
moval. 
In an Associated Press article 

printed Aug. 14, Robert Bunting of 
the National Weather Service in 
Indianapolis said that "for the next 
several years, weather is going to 
be variable." ·. 
Variability, in South Bend's case, 

means more snow. 
''The extremes are increasing 

and the weather will seem more 
severe," Bunting said, noting that 
from 1910 to 1975 "variability was 
at a minimum. "Variability is 
based on trends, he said, but 
"since severe weather has lasted 
two years, we can expect more of 
the same." 
John Curran, also of the National 

Weather Service in Indianapolis, 
disagreed. He said it is too early to 
predict the severity of this coming 
winter. 
"We do not have sufficient data to 
forecast this winter's weather 
accurately," he said in a telephone 
interview yesterday, but added that 
is "highly unlikely" that this 
winter will be as severe as last 
year. "This winter should be more 
normal, much more mild," he said. 
Urban Studies 
at NO awarded 
federal grant 
Third District Congressman John 

Brademas announced that the Law 
Enforcement Assistance Adminis­
tration of the U.S. Department of 
Justice has awarded a $295,974 
grant to the University's Institute 
for Urban Studies for improving 
ju:venile justice and delinquency 
prevention programs for the State 
of Indiana as well as surrounding 
communities. 
The funds for this grant, 

are authorized under the Juvenile 
Justice and Delinquency Prevent­
ion Act of 1974. 1 In accouncing the grant, · Brademas congratulated Institute 
Director, Dr. Thomas Broden, and 
his staff, and noted his pleasure at 
being able to assist in securing this 
want. "This grant is an important 
step in developing comprehensive 
programs to prevent many of our 
youth from becoming delin­
quents," Brademas said, " ·I 
hope that the fruits of this grant 
will help reduce juvenile crime in 
our community.'' 
1/2 PRIC€ all n1qht 

un 
Kenneth Brehob, assistant pro­fessor of Earth Sciences at Notre Dame, agreed that it is too early to predict the weather patterns for the winter. "We are lucky to predict tomorrow's weather,let alone long­range predictions, he added. 
The severity qj the last two winters was due to a body of warm water in the Pacific ocean, Brehob explained. Air currents passing over warm water head north to Canada and Alaska, then sweep down over the Midwest, causing severe storms, he said. 
In any case, South Bend is preparing for a winter similar to last year, when 15 feet of snow smothered the city. 
The city's strategy includes pur­chasing new snow equipment, re­vising snow routes, and lining up private contractors for snow remov­al in an emergency, according to Assistant Streets Supervisor Rob­ert Schramski. 
South Bend invested over $90,000 in three new "V" and straight-angle plows, Schramski said. The city also purchased a continuous loader conveyer system which loads snow onto trucks while blocking only one lane of traffic instead of four, he noted. 

South . Bend now has 28 trucQ available for snow removal, Sch­ramski said, including seven front­end plows. "These will quadruple the speed with which the streets are cleared," he said. 
Schramski observed that last year was the rust time that South Bend was forced to use outside contractors for snow removal. This year, "there will be no contracting per se," he said. 
The snow removal system is "still being revised," he said. The revised snow 'routes will leave South Bend residents only three or four blocks from cleared streets, Schram;ki said. The new system will remedy last year's situation, when many residents were strand­e.! for ten days after the January blizzard hit. 
Eventhough the contingency plans are not yet complete,Schram­ski said, "we are in a heck of a lot better shape than last year.'' 
Homecoming week begins 
by Tim SuiUvan Staff Reporter 

Homecoming activities sponsored by the Student_ Union Social Com­mission will begin next Monday, according to Joe Guckert, Home­coming chairman. 
A film festival will begin the week's activities Monday with "My Fair Lady" showing in Washington Hall, and three Marx Brothers ftlm shorts in the Nazz. Later that evening, "The Hunchback of Notre Dame," starring Anthony Quinn, will also be shown in the Nazz. 
Next Tuesday, the "Irish Fol­lies," will premiere in the Nazz, beginning at 9 p.m. The program will consist of three-minute drama­tic and comedy acts which will be judged by students. Competition will be divided into half-hour segments, with the winner of each segment receiving $15. 
Awards will be given for the best dramatic act and the most outrage­ous comedy act. The last half-hour, beginning at 10:30, will be a 
. ''playoff'' of the best acts in the show. A $25 prize will be awarded for the best act overall. Those interested in performing should call 1396, 3433, 8738, or 1205 by Saturday to register. A toga party will be held in Stepan Center Wednesday evening begin­ning at 8 p.m. Music and refreshments will be provided. Everyone is asked to dress accord­ingl}'. Neil Young will appear in concert at 8 p.m. Thursday night in the ACe with Crazy Horse. Tickets are $7.50 and $8.50 and are available in the ACC and the Student Union ticket offices. 

SURf'S UP, 
at CORBY S 
''B1k1n1 Bash'' 
Beach PaRty 
satuRbay Olqht I 
s 'til 3 am. 
I 

come Oown anb meet annette anb ~anky 

On Friday, homecoming mums will be distributed in each hall. Mums may be ordered all next week in the dining halls for $1 and include a note to the receiver and delivery. A pep rally will be held that night at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
The Homecoming Dance will begin at 9 p.m. Saturday in the ACC fieldhouse with the theme, "The African Queen." Students and alumni are invited to dance to the music of the David Romaine Orchestra, and a cash bar will be available. Tickets are $6 per couple and can be purchased from the Student Union. 
Ongoing throughout the week will be happy hours at local bars, and the "Hidden Panther Contest." A panther has been hidden some­where on campus and clues will appear in Tl,te Observer giving hints of the location. Those who think they know where the panther is should drop off their guess off at the Student Union office. 
... The winner will be picked ran­domly from the entries of those who guessed correctly. The prize will be a homecoming package, consisting of two Pittsburgh foot­ball game tickets, two Neil Young concert tickets and a ticket for one couple to the Homecoming Dance. Guckert expressed hope that the homecoming festivities would be a success, saying "We've plenty of things.for people to do. It should be a good week." He also explained that the halls were primarily responsible for the plan­ning and execution of many of the activities, and that this hall inVQlve­ment should make homecoming a success. 
Sunday October 8 8:00 p.m. Wings Stadium· -Kalamazoo tickets at River City Records, U.S. 31 North only 
BILLY JOEL 
Friday, October 13 -8:00 p.m. 
Chicago Stadium 

tickets at River City Records, U.S. 31 North only 
JETHRO TULL 
Monday October 23 -8:00 p.m. Chicago Stadium tickets at River City Records, U.S. 31 North only 
THE BEACH BOYS 
Saturday, October 28 -7:30 p.m. Notre Dame A.C.C. tickets at both River City Records: U.S. 31 North ~ and Western Ave. and all River City Review ticket outlets \ 
FRANK SINATRA 
Tuesday October 31 -8:00 p.m. 
(Halloween Night!) 
Chicago Stadium 

tickets at River City. Records, U.S. 31 North only 
THE MOODY BLUES 
Friday November 10 -8:00 p.m. Chicago Stadium tickets at River City Records, U.S. 31 North only 
r---------~-------------------~·
l $1.00 OFF! COUPON! I 
. I I 
I· I
1 Any $10.00 album or tape purchase with 1 1 this coupon. Limit 1. Now thru Oct. 31. 1 1 Not good on cut-outs, Imports or other sale 1 
I ~~. I 
1 I River CIIJ Records !I 
I South Bend's largest record and tape selectlon and concert 1 I ticket headquarters! West I
I1 North -1 
: 50970 U.S. 31 N. 4626 Western Ave. 11 (1 mile south of the Stateline) (Belleville Plaza) 
1

I 277-4242 287-7272 . I l1 open 10 to 10, 7 days a week 12-9 Mon-Fn, 10-8 Sat. 1 
1: 

L--------------.~---2.2;!~~:..------• 

Friday, October 6, 1978
4 
the observer 



FAITH UNITED mETHODIST CHURCH1 E. Ewing at So. High South Send, Indiana 
WORSHIP, ·SUNDAYS-· 10:45 om TRANSPORTATION AVAILABLE· CHURCH VAN PICK-UP' LISRBRY CIRClE 
10:00 om Each Sundo.u T•le hone 288-1777 or 2~1-4872 
· Saveso¢ 1
This coupon entitles the · ­

Clip this 
I . 
bearer to the above savings ~--: Coupon off the regular price of a __· and Set 
Sail for
Fish & Moren.. Dinner. Savings at long John
1 1 

Silver's.
Offer limited: One~o.upon ...,.
I 
per person, per VISit. __ _ 
1
expires 12 Oct 1978 " · 
~~soo~ 
I 
Good only at: 
ROSELAND SHOPPE 

Nomination of candidates for Senior Class Fellow delayed 
by Tim Joyce 4) the person must typify the spirit
After the committee has 
of the class of '79. _ _The nomination of candidates for announced the list of orospective. 

candidates, elections will be heldSenior Class Fellow, originally After the field of candidates has determine who the Senior Fellow schedu'~d for yesterday and today, been narrowed down the­will be. 

has bee.1 delayed due to a shortage committee begins the task of 
The leading vote-getter doesn'tof manpower to work the .balloting compiling biographies of those always tum out to be the Seniorlocations, according to Tom chosen. "In addition, the task of Fellow, Reid said. Because ofMielenhausen, chairman of the finding addresses of where the previous commitments, fees re­Senior Fellow Committee. candidates caQ be re,ached and the quired, and other reasons, the topThe prtJblem, however, has been availability of candidates is also candidate sometimes cannot comesolved a td nominations will be held begun, because this is often the to Notre Dame. The committee isMonday and Tuesday in the dining hardest part, due to the caliber of then forced to consider otherhalls, Senior bar, and the Huddle, the people considered," continued candidates until the Senior FellowMielenhausen said. "Everything Reid. 

is determined, he added.

else will run according to schedule Reid stressed the importance of "Hopefully, an announcement
and will not be affected by the the initial nominations and hoped will be made in late January ordelay," he explained. that seniors would pav heed to the early February as to who the SeniorOnce the nominations are com­posters that are hanging up around Fellow of the Class of '79 will be,"plete, a committee of 15 people will campus. The posters list the four added Mielenhausen.
review all nominations and help criteria for selections of nominees: 
Past recipients . of the Senior

choose the Senior Fellow. 1) the person must demonstrate Fellow award, which was begun in"Usually the nominations yield personal qualities of unselfishness 1969, include: Ara Parseghian,approximately 60-70 names and the and fellowship. 
Garry Trudeau, Fr. Daniel

committee narrows down the field , 2) the person must have made a Berrigan, Sen. Richard Lugar, Sen. 
of candidates to about 20-25 significant contribution to society, Eugene McCarthy, Fr. Robertpeople," stated John Reid, director 3) the nominee must be Griffin, Atty. Gen. Williamof Student Activities outstanding in his/her vocation, Ruckelshaus, Congressman Allan and Lowenstein, and Rocky Blier. 
Director·of Pro-Life group speaks 
by Ed Moran • 
Staff Reporter 

Patrick Trueman, executive director of the American. United for Life (AUL), sees last June's Supreme Court ruling that states don't have to pay for abortions as an indication that further progress in the fight againit abortion can be made through the courts. 
Trueman expressed his organiza­tion's views yesterday afternoon before a small crowd at the Law School. The talk, sponsored by the Law School, was entitled "The Role of The Pro-life Lawyer." 
The AUL's strategy for overturn­ing the Supreme court's 1973 decision favoring abortion has two phases, Trueman said. 
·'Phase one consists of getting restrictive legislation passed in the state legislatures," stated True­man. "after the laws are passed, the American Civil Liberties U.uion (ACLU) will immediately contest them in the courts. We are waiting for that chance." 
s.;;;;;;~~~r~7"~7"ii.'9"'""P"~""7'~~":;:"'tt'""':!~r::-"~"i¢~~:;;'!~!7'·~,.,_ Examples of such proposed re­
• strictive legislation include laws requiring parental consent for minors seeking abortions, a 24­waiting period between the initial physical examination and actual abortion, and cutting off public fund for abortions. 
"The ensuing court battles over 
Patrick Trueman, executive director of AUC. [Photo by Mark
AT . . • the legislation that will be passes 
Ricca]

,start phase two," said Trueman. ·"These cases will take place in the over 30 abortion cases throughout .. ·I've been trying to get money out federal courts." the country, with the goal of of the Catholic Church for two and This legislation is being ultimately reversing the abortion a half years now."
IOO CENTER 

proposed in states such as Indiana, laws. ''Even if the AUL loses in the ~ 700 LINCOLNWAY WEST Illinois, and Minnesota. Trueman According to Trueman, the AUL courts,'' Trueman asserts, ''the estimates that the process of fights an uphill battle. He said its pro-life movement will benefit from ro~~~'~'-v · MISHAWAKA passing the legislation and then opponents include Planned Parent­the exposure. We want to make defending it in court, could take hood. the ACLU, the Center for abortion the issue that won't die."
'~'-~ ..j over two years. Constitutional Rights, Zero Popula­"Hopefully with enough rulings tion Growth, giant newspapersLIVE ENTERTAINMENT by the federal courts in our favor, such as The New York Times, the BY the Supreme Court will see that the Rockefeller Foundation, and the 
134 years ago

climate of the American legal Kellog Food Corporation, among system is moving toward a pro-life many others. He stressed that the 
stand," Trueman said. "I think pro-abortion movement is heavily last June's decision indicates that funded. the climate is already changing." The AUL and the pro-life move-In 1843, four sisters of the Holy 
Headquartered in Chicago. the ment in general need funds and Cross came from France to Notre 
G.ERMAN today ... 
BANDS 

."single, small, understaffed and volunteers. "I have sent requests Dame du Lac and in 1844, they 'underfinanced" A.UL Legal for grants to over 70 corporations founded St. Mary's Academy in , Defense Fund is participating in and foundations," said Trueman. Bertrand, MI.
FOOD AND 

• •• After a Rough Week....BEER • •• • ....It's The NAZZ 

••• • Friday Gene Barbanera 9-10 (folk rock) •
FRI OCT 6 4 'tU 11 

: 'Smokey ..be' 10-11 (recording artist) •
•
SAT OCT 7 10 'til 11 

• Jm Kotorac 11:15-?? (midwest folk rock)
SUN OCT 8 12 'til 

: Saturday Doug Stringer 9:30-??? 
• (olayir~ neil young &others\ 
;._, ·'~l·.) ._ ,"1 ; , .:.f..j
·----· ----··············································' 

5 

Gunboats fire on Beirut in raging~ 
kegs & sandwiches Park Jefferson Apts. 



battle of Christians and Syrians 
BEIRUT, Lebanon IAP] Unidentified gunboats she11edWes­tern Beirut last night as battles raged in the eastern sector of the city betweeo rightist Christian militias and Syrian peacekeepers, Beirut radio reported. 
The state-controlled radio said three gunboats appreared off the southwestern sector of the Leba­nese capital and opened fire on the RamJet Baida residential quarter 15 minutes later. 
Artillery positions of the peace­keeping force in the area returned the fire and forced the vessels to retreat, the radio reported. 
The Syrian artillery was firing on the ravaged Christian sector of Beirut for the fourth straight day yesterday, seeking to pound entrenched Christian militianmen into submission. Some Lebanese officials pinned hopes on a possible United Nations intervention to stop the bloodshed. 
Witnesses said a three-day Christian assault on Syrians hold­ing tow key bridges controlling the northern roads and supply routes into the city had failed. 
In what diplomats saw as a bid to rally civilian morale, the rightist militia vowed they would tum their guns on Syria should the fighting continue. 
''The situation is rapidly becom­ing unbearable," said Pierre Gemayel, leader of the rightist Phalange Party. . 
Palice said the casualty toll has climbed to l,boo killed and 1,700 
Fi_fteen receive fellowships 
Fifteen students have received Arthur J. Schmitt fellowships in the College of Science at Notre Dame 
· for the current academic year. Since the beginning in 1960 a total of 275 students have shared more than $678,000 in scholarship aid supplied by the Chicago foundation founded by the noted manufactur­ing executive. 
More than three of every four fellows receiving the Ph.D. degree at the University are presently teaching or doing research in universities or colleges, a current report shows. 
Of the 122 fellows selected since 1969, 79 have graduated with the Ph.D. degree, four left after com­pleting the master's degree, one is deceased and 35 are currently enrolled at Notre Dame. Only three Schmitt Fellows since 1969 have discontinued their association with the program. 
The foundation, in addition to sponsoring a lecture series of noted scientists, provides a first year stipend of 53600 for students in the post-baccalaureate program. Dis­sertation year fellowships provide a stipend of 54300 and Notre Dame provides tuition costs. 
Current Notre Dame under­graduate degree fellows in the , program are William H. Alban, III, Houston TX, Aerospace and Mech­anical Engineering; John J. Meyers, St. Joseph, Ml, and Robert E. Polomski, Bayonne, NJ, both in chemical engineering; and Philip E. Cannata, Springfield, IL, physics. 
Receiving undergraduate degrees at other colleges or universities are John H. Malin, Rochester, NY, St. John Fisher College, biology; Guil­lermo Guzman, Valle, Columbia, S.A., Universidad Del Valle, chem­ical engineering; Adrienne Bire­cree, Lake Grove, NY, Bu't:knell University, economics; Stephen Yurkovich, Shawnee, KS, Rock­hurst College, electrical engineer­ing. 
Also: Michael J. Bradley, Law­rence, MA, Merrimack College, mathematics; Joanne R. Snow, Baltimore, MD, Loyola of Balti­more, mathematics; Cecelia Hutch­craft, Logansport, IN, Loyla Uni­versity, microbiology; Stephan Rozak, Philadelplhia, PA, LaSalle College, physics; Michael A. Xap­sos, Lockport, NY, Canisius Col­lege, physics; and Diane Stier, Indianapolis, IN, psychology. 
va because its Beirut office was cutwounded in eight months of off and they could not get supplies Christian-Syrian battles for control through to the injured. · of the tiny Meditaerranean state. 
At the United Nations in newPhalangist :radio told Christian York, a well-placed source saidcivilians holed up in their makeshift Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim
basement bunkers that the Syrians were being heavily reinforced and was considering sending Sadruddin 
Aga Khan, a Moslem, to Lebanon no end appeared in sight to the to try to organize a cease-fire.• He isconstant rain of artillery fire. 
an lranianNationalistvho once wasIn a statement issued in Geneva, U.N. High Commissioner for Refu­the Lebanese Red Cross s"aid: ''The 
gees.
civilian population, hospitals, The protracted fighting led todispensaries, asylums, shelters, some speculation of a possiblenothing is being spared. In the Israeli intervention in support of name of humanity, in the name of their Christian friends, butthe most elementary principles of observers in Beirut believed thishuman rights, in the name of the was unlikely at present.

children, women and aged people 

Meanwhile, a spokesman fol"
wito are dying by the hundreds, we 

Lebanese-American groups said in
urged you to act." 

Washington that Christian leaders
The International Red Cross said 

in Beirut have issued an "S.O.S"
it issued the statement from Gene­

.for United Nations intervention. 
After eight years 

Hornings open 'Artwurks' 
by EDen Buddy Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Artwurks Gallery, located at 
916 East Wayne St., opened this 
past August, ending eight years of 
planning and work for Don Hor­
ning, a professor of sociology at 
Saint Mary's, and his artist wife 
lrneke. 
The gallery, which exhibits works 
in all kinds of artistic media, is 
located in a building formerly used 
as a meat locker. The Hornings 
renovated the building almost en­
tirely by themselves. 
Current exhibits include works by 
47 local, regional, national and 
international artists. The collec­
tions include ceramic pieces ran­
ging from two-inch pots to four-foot 
high v.essels. Oil paintings and 
water colors of geometric design 
and super-realism can also be 
found in the gallery. 
Other types of art on display in the 
gallery include sculpture, graphics 
and stained glass. There is also a 
collection of jewelry with pieces 
such as handcrafted, antique Afri­
can necklaces of trade beads once 
used for bartering. 
The Homings consider the Art­
wurks Gallery their contribution to 
the community. Don Horning said, 
"The gallery has turned out to be a 
significant statement, a statement 
of our values, our commitment to 
the arts and our belief that South 
Bend is ready to have as fine a 
gallery as those in major cities." 
lrenke Horning said she views the 
gallery as "other than a place to 
Luce program helps scholars 
The Luce Scholars Program . was established by the Henry Luce Foundation in 1973 to give outstan­ding young Americans an exposure . to Asia at an early stage in their careers. The program is uniqu4e in that it excludes Asian specialists and international affairs experts in favor of young men and women whose leadership potential is in areas unrelated to Asian special­
ties. 
The fifteen winners of Luce Scho­
lar awards in 1978 average 24 years 
of age and include ten men and five 
women. The Scholars were 
selected from over 120 candidates 
nominated last fall by 60 colleges 
and universities across the country, 
including Notre Dame. 
The competition for 1979-80 Luce 
Scholars is already underway. 
Nominating instutitions have been 
asked to present their candidates to 
the Henry Luce Foundation no later 
than December 4th. 
Graduating seniors, graduate and 
professional students, and recent 
alumni of Notre Dame are eligible 
to enter the competition. For 
further information, ,contact the 
office of Dr. William M. Burke. 
Former Luce Scholars include 
William C. Wilka, ('77), a Notre 
,Dame nominee. · 

-----~-----_________L______________________j 
view art, but as an educational opportunity.'' She emph~sized that the fact that the gallery offers the opportunity to explore the world of art. 
In the future, the couple plans to bring guest artists who are showing their work in the gallery. These artists will demonstrate the tech­niques they use in their field of art. The Hornings plan to host demon­sttations in the areas of printing, water colors, arid ceramics. Plans are also in the making for an outdoor sculpture garden that ' would be located behind the gal­lery. 
The Sociology Club of Saint 
Mary's will host a wine and cheese 
reception Sunday, Oct. 15, from 
2:30 to 5 p.m. to welcome the 
Artwurks Gallery into the South Bend community. 
JOIIj'""''~· """'"""'~ ....
~­

====LIVB==== 
11001018! 
CIITIB STAIB IITBB BOUID 
November 3, 1978 • aPM Notre Dame ACC 
-1Ticket sale starts this 
,


rench Quarter Club 3001 E Jefferson Blvd 3A mile E of Ironwood) Bring friends & suits 
· 

:00-1 :00 am Saturday October 7th 
$

1.50 
Club members 

2.00 
non-member jnfo.. : call Rocky Romano 


..~:::;~~~~~~~::~~====::::===~7=7=3=·===---·~ 
1 

A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding title. -But how many offer you a really important job? 
In the Navy, you get one as s~n as you earn your com­mission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because it's also an adventure. 
If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to your local recruiter. 
Your Navy qtticer Representatives are on campus 
today. · They will be located in the 1 
Student Center. 


..IL-_.....~th-...:eiL...loiEJbseKllll~rv..&llllar[L______ Frid_ay, October 6, 1978 
Students construct electric auto 
by Erin Courtney 
Twenty-two engineering stu­dents are building an electric car for course credit this semester. Mitchell Jolles, assistant professor of mechanical engineering, teaches the sequential course ME 470-471, titled "Energy Efficient Vehicles." 
Jolles, who returned yesterday from The International Electric Vehicles Symposium held Monday through Wednesday in Philadel­phia, said the course is "a great educational experience." 
The students design the entire car, including the engine, interior. and body design, Jolles said. Although the car is still on the drawing board, according to the plans, the engine of the car is made up of a set of 20 standard car-size batteries which supply power to the electic motors. He engine emits no pollution and is virtually noise-free. 
The course places great emphasis on energy efficiency in the design of the car. To improve efficiency, the engine is controlled by a micro-processor, a type of mini computer. 
The micro-processor gathers information from the car's processes -such as its speed, rate of acceleration, and application of brakes, -and operates the vehicle so as to achieve the highest· 
and Notre Dame Student Union Present 
/--­

A Spectacular Homecoming Event ttRust Never Sleeps'' an evening with-­
Neil ydoung 
Crazy Horse 
Thurs, Oct. 12 Spm Notre Dame ACC 
All seats reserved $8.50 $7.50 on sale now "t ACC Box Office, 
First Bank Main Branc.h, Robertson's-South Bend and 

Elkhart, St. joe Hank & Branches, Boogie Records, River 
1 itv Records, Just for Lhe Record, Suspended Cord and 
j 

. ,, .ctrt Truth in Elkhart, Record joint in Niles 
~liiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiililiiiilif!J 
efficiency possible. 

The car has a travelling range of 
up to 75 miles, at a highway speed 
of 55 miles per hour, before its 
batteries must be recharged. Only 
three prototypical \vehicles con­
structed in the U.S. -demonstra-. 
tion cars built by General Electric 
and the Copper Development 
Association -even come close to 
these statistics, Jolles said. 
The'car's size is equivalent to a 
4-passenger sub-compact and 
measures roughly ISO inches in 
lenght. Its major use will most 
likely be for commuting. 

The raw estimate for the price of the parts alone is in the neighbor­hood of $10,000 Jolles expl11ined. · The funding for the project comes from SCORE (Student Competition on Relevant, Engineering) the College of Engineering and various corporations interestd in the project. The estimated cost to the 
consumer·, if the car is mass­produced and marketed, would be under $5,000 he said. 
In August 1979, the car will be entered in the "National Energy Efficient Vehicle Competition" held near Detroit which is sponsored by SCORE. Sixty universities from the United states and Canada will compete. 
The cars will be jud~ed on their energy efficiency, safety, driving test-drivers. regarding the project, )olles said, response and handling, overall He said he believes that the "providing the opportunity to work design, emisions control, and the Notre Dame car "has as good a on a project of this typ·e is very cost to the consumer. Jolles stated chance as anyone else." He also important to the process of learn­the cars will also be subjected to an stated, "We're not in it for the win, ing." He said he intends to offer a endurance trial and a drive ability we're in it for the experience." class experience in· innovative test administered by professional Expressing his philosophy design each year.
•========-----------------------------. 
.....~-:. '·:•.< 
~···e>*.:":""M~~w~' 
•

A group of friends gathers for a photo during last evening's SMC dining hall festivities 
celebrating Oktoberfest. [Photo by. Mark Ricca] 
ND vs Michigan St 
Kegger Special at 

WAYNE~S OAK ·DAIRY PARTY STOR 
--WiTH EACH KEG PURCHASED Keg Party Package WE·WILL SUPPLY AT 
NO CHARGE niles mich. 50 cups stateline line rd. .c: 
;: 
271bs of ice 
0 
C:, 
m 
tapper rental
fl) 
::::l 

,.. 
tub rental 
::l.
r 

l!~ open 9 to midni-ght mon-sat call 684-4950.
S •open 12 to· midnight sunday 
. .. 
STATELIN ROAD JN NILES ONE BLOCK.EAST OF US 31 
I I ,,•,.· 
L______ 

_____________W!iJ~~~Q-~i __ __f 
Friday, October 6, 1978 tbl QIJHDtN' 
Next pope's task: finances 
VATICAN CITY[AP] -One of the major tasks facing the next pope will be how to cut the cost of the Roman Catholic Church's expand­ing worldwide mission and invest wisely. but some critics say the Vatican also must reconcile its worldy wealth with its spiritual role. 
No sooner had Pope John Paul I taken over on Aug. 26 than a leading Italian business magazine appealed to him to impose "order and morality" on the Church's secrecy-shrouded financial affairs. Complaints persist that it still has too much of a secular role through its financial holdings in banks, stock exchanges and real estate. "It depends on the benefits the big multinationals take out even from developing countries. 
"It finds itself on the side of capitalists in certain social conflicts. All this cannot but raise questions and problems, particu­larly from younger churches." 
Under changes instituted by Pope Paul VI in 1968, three organizations now manage the Holy See's financial affairs. On top is the Prefecture for Economic Affairs, headed by Cardinal Egidio Bagnozzi. the prefecture coodi­nates all administrative and financial policies, including the budget of the Holy See. 
A second organization, the Administration of the Patrimony of the Holy See, is responsible for the Vatican's payroll and manages investment in securities and real estate. 

The ·third, headed by Bishop Paul Marcinkus, 56, of Cicero, Dl., is the Vatican bank -officially called the Institute for Religious Works. Its annual report said the Vatican had $100 million in depo-. 
sits with reporting banks at the end 
of 1977. At the end of 1975, these 
deposits totaled $105 million. 
To avoid moral conflicts, the Vatican divested itself of any stock holdings in companies involved in the manufacture of arms, contra­ceptives and films. At the same time, Vatican ·money managers have been careful not to acquire . controlling interest in a company to avoid the role of "boss" and possible conflict with labor unions. 
With the expansion of church 
activities has come the cost of 
telecommunications and air fares. 

· The creation of the Synod of Bishops, a gathering of leading bishops from around the world every three years, also has casued costs to mount. 
Meanwhile, wages have been rising. Most of the Vatican's 3,000 
· employees are tied in to the inflation-based Italian wage escala­tor, which went up an average of 21 percent over the past three years. 
'Celebration' scheduled 

The Indiana Committee for the 
· Humanities, iri conjunction with, the St. Joseph County Park and Recreation board, has scheduled a "Sweet Sorghum Celeberation" tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday from noon to 6 p.m. at St. Patrick's County Park. The celbration will feature a series of presentations on the area's rural history and the mater­ial culture which it has developed. Thomas Fern, associate professor of art at Notre Dame, will be one of the discussion leaders for the 
An old-style German band added mood music to the Oktoberfest celebration last evening in St. Mary's cafeteria. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
LJ..J 
:r: 
t-
NO 

SMC 
THEATRE 
'Notre n.me-Salbt ~· 'l'i.e.ue preeeata l're8t8D lofrect 
LU ANN HAMPI'ON 
LAVEKTYD~ 
October 6,718,11,12,13,14 O'J:.aaahlln Alldltodut, St. Mary't 
8:00 , ...~ 
For tlcWa aDlM-4176 
'Hard winter to come,' say U.S. officials 
ATLANTA, [AP] -Health offi­cials say young Americans may be in for another hard winter because of Russian flue, but they say a relatively unheralded prescription drug could provide limited protec­tion. 
Last season, military establish­ments and college campuses were hit hard by the A-USSR strain of influenza. Americans younger than 26 had no immunity because they were born after a similar flue strain caused influenza outbreaks during the early 1950's. 
"I would expect to see Russian influenza fairly extensively this winter. Only about 30 or 40 percent of the college population is immune after last year," said Dr. A. David Brandling-Bennett of the National Center for Disease Control. 
And trying to keep dry and warm all winter will not help avoid the flu bug, health officials said. 
''There is no scientific evidence that getting your feet wet or being in a draft increases your chance of getting the flu," said Dr. Alan Hinman, director of the center's immunization division. 
But he said a prescriptioin drug called amantidine "can lessen the likelihood.... It's taken by mouth, a couple of tablets a day starting from the time you're exposed to flu until the time the flu outbreak goes away. But in winter, when flu is around all the time, that could be a problem." 
For that reason, • Hinman said, amantidine "has not been widely used in the general population. It is best in a hospital or other closed setting where typically the influ­enza goes through quickly." 
The drug is not known to have any serious side effects, but a small percentage of those who take it have problems have problems maintaining their concentration, he said. 
Hinman also is worried that ·Russian flue may affect the elderly this winter. 
"We do not know if it is going to do what it did last spring and affect only youngsters, or if it has gotten tough enough or changed slightly and will affect older people," he said. 
That could be dangerous, Hinman said, because ''the reason it caused no deaths last year may well be because it affected only young people." 
He said other flu varieties--A-Vic­toria, A-Texas and influenza-B Hong Kong flue--also will return this winter. As a result, the government is spending $8.2 mil­lion in an effort to immunize 8.5 million elderly and infirm Ameri­cans. 
This year, for the first time, a trivalent vaccination is available that offers protection against the Hong Kong, A-Texas and A-USSR strains. That is recommended for the elderly and infirm adults older than 26. A double-immunization of trivalent vaccination with increased protection against Russian flue is recommended for infirm people younger than 26, Hinman said. 
National health officials say that 150,000 more deaths would nor­mally be expected from flu and pneumonia were recorded during epidemics of influenza-A varieties in the United States from 1968 through 1977. 





H 
lD& ooserver 

Tony's Shoe Shop· I Quick service -Reasonable prices 
I ·FBI seizes conspirators·Coupon book for 150/0 ·discount now available-
I 
shoe repairs & shoe care needs 
PLUS . all types of zippers repaired
I 
. quality leather goods sold .sandals, made by hand

I 
. 



winter boots available I convlenent location on cam pus In Badin 
I 
basement " open: M on-Frt 8-5/Sat 8-2 phone 283-1144 

t TIMM PARTY STORE I : OPEN:MON-SAT 9am-11pm I ** SUNDAY12noon-11pm * 
i BEERSALE !
I 3114 S.11 ST. NILES, MICHIGAN:
* 1 Block North of St1t1 Line on U.S. 31 * 
****************************** 
SffiC Stubent CjOV€Qnment 
check cash1nq seRvice 
SatuROay €v€mnqs* 
at th€ smc bm1nq hall 
4:45 to 6:15 

$5 l1m1t anO 10¢ cashmq chaRq€ 
*non-hom€ rootsall (farTI€S 
An invttatton from IBM 
to discuss yourcareef 
Thursday, October19, 


atthe Notre Dame PlacementOffice. 
If you are thinking about a career in engineering, computer science or sales/marketing, IBM is certainly one company you should consider. 
IBM provides a uniquely creative environment in which talented people are encouraged to accept the challenge and responsibility offered by one of the prime growth industries: information technology. 
We can offer you a remarkable variety of career opportunities in many areas. Come and talk with us. We'll be at Notre Dame all day, October 19. The Placement Office will be happy to set up an appointment. 
In the meantime, if you would like to know more about us and the many opportunities we offer, our career brochures are 
available at the Placement Office. 
Irv Pfeiffer Corporate College Relations Manager IBM Corporation One IBM Plaza Chicago, IL 60611 
----------------------------------------------~ 
The FiJI siad Mendenhall was an insurance company employee from Rochester, N.Y., and Schmidt a carpet cleaner from Kansas City. But both men, arrested in St. Louis Wednesday, told Noce they were from the St. Louis area. 
In Buffalo, N.Y., FBI agent James Tyson said Cosgrove had been in the Navy and, Tyson bel_ieved, was discharged 3'12 or 4 years ago. Employment records at the Willard Psychiatric Center in Willard, N.Y., where Cosgrove had worked as a therapy aide stated he attended the Navy Submarine e School across the Thames River from New London in Groton, Conn. But FBI sources said they could not confirm a connection with the submarine school. and the St. Louis Post Dispatch quoted Cosgrove's father as saying Cosgrove had never been in theNavy. 
Roy B. Klager Jr., special agent in charge of the St. Louis FBI office, said the alleged plot came to light last month when Mendenhall and Cosgrove contacted a St. Louis resident about joining. The men, he said, then contacted an under­cover FBI agent, seeking funds for training and supplies. 
Klager said the men showed the agent written plans for using a 12-man crew to take the Trepang into the Atlantic Ocean where they would rendezvous with an unidenti­ficd buyer. 
· 
==-=~=® 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Afte; killing the sub's 100-man crew, the men allegedly planned to blow up a submarine tender moored alongside the Trepang to create a diversion. Klager said they planned to fire a nuclear missile at the base or at a major East Coast city if needed cover the getaway. 
Klager said the suspects claimeL. to have the talents "and were in a position to recruit enough person·· with the talents" to run the sub. 
"I don't know if they could hav.: carried it out," Klager said. ''I'd like to think they couldn't have. But the government is not in a position to take that kind of risk. 
"We were not in the position t , discount it as too outlandish." 
At the same time, however, tht' Defense Department said it was a "practical impossibility" that a 

• group of civilians would have succeeded in stealing the sub­marine or in operating it. 
"For all practical purposes, it is impossible for this submarine to have been seized," said ~hief Defense Department spokesman Thoma~ Ross. 
Lt. Cmdr. Doug McCurra~:h, a Navy spokesman, added that "no small group of untrained indivi­duals could conceivablv steal or operate a ship of this complexity. which is protected by extensive security measures." And in Gro­ton, sp;>kesman Steve Wade of the naval Submarine Base said the base didn't know of the alleged plot until Wednesday night, and didn't increase security after learning o'' it. 
Wade called the scheme "ludi­crous.'' 
And in New London, sialors from the targeted submarine tender said they doubted a theft attempt would have succeeded. 
"I think it's flV!ny as hell," said one young sailor. "i'm not really too worried about it." An•Jther commented,"there's no way they could have moved the submarine without a full crew, let along fire a missile." 
In addition, according to Jane's Fighting Ships. the Trepang, a Sturgeon-class submarine, is not equipped with missiles intended for use against land. Jane's says its armament is a nuclear-tipped anti-submarine weapon called SUBROC that is fired through torpedo tubes. 
ND-SMC Theatre opens season 
The 1978-1979 Notre Dame--Saint Mary's Theatre season opens to­night with the presentation of Preston Jones' Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander. Production dates are Oct. 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, and 14 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Tickets are $2 for ND-SMC stu­dents, faculty and staff, and may be reserved by calling 284-4176. 
Professor wins Sociology award 
Julian Samora, professor of 

sociology and anthropology at Notre Dame, has been named winner of a 1978 Sydney Spivack Fellowship of the American Sociological Associa­tion, A.S.A. The award recognizes a contribution "to interracial, inc terethnic and interreligious con­cerns and, in tum, encourages further work in this area.'' 
Supported by the Cornerhouse Fund of the A.S.A. the award of SS,OOO to Samora recognizes "sig­nificant applications of sociological knowledge to actual prevailing social conditions and encourages future applications." 
Samora has served as a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1959 and since 1971 as director of the University's Mexican-Ameri­can Graduate Studies Program. He is the author of several books dealing with Chbmo programs and has participated in both govern­ment and private s•trveys on U.S.­

Mexican horder activities. 
...------------------~---­
-------------------------------~ 
~P.O.BoxQ~ 
Homecoming 
at Notre­Dame 
Dear Editor: 
In response to the decision at the HPC meeting to "give up the idea" of the Homecoming King and Queen, I'd like to present a different' side to the issue. 
I have been helping out with the Homecomng King and Queen committee. It all started out so innocently--a new idea was pro­posed to let people know it was Homecoming. Workers were needed so a few of us volunteered. Monday I heard one of my fellow committee members had been fired from his voluntary position. How can an activity by the Social Commission cause so much contro­vep&y? This thing had gone too far. 
~ Then two letters in the Sept. 26 Observer came to my attention. Both letters referred to the King and Queen elections as a "high schoolish custom." Why, then, do so many other colleges and univer­sities, with possibly "more class" and "social maturity," handle this tradition in a dignified manner? When referring the the election as "far too regressive" the idea of acceptable social activities (panty raids, toga parties, slumber par­ties, etc.) seemed to parallel very well. The absurdity of "high­schoolish" behavior can be seen in the nomination of a janitor from Lyons and a moose head from Zahm. When I was in high school the Freshman Class elected a dog as class president Sound familiar? Well, that was high school--but obviously some people don't change much over time. 
The final line in the letters to the 
editor was the best, in that the 
lie--"I spent my undergraduate 
years at Cornell" --would have to be 
practiced. If anyone is so ashamed 
to be here, why stay? 
At the HPC meeting, which I attended, one hall president was actually upset that the election was "canned" because his "guy had already bought his gowns." Ano­ther president stated that he "didn't even bother to mention the whole thing." If I were in "his" hall I'd be quite angered to know "my president" decided what I should and shouldn't be informed of. Great student leaders! 
In conclusion I'd like to simply 
thank all the hall presidents at 
Saint Mary's, and a few at Notre 
Dame, wbo did the job, and all the 
other people who cooperated in the 
Homecoming King and Queen 
elections. I appreciate all the time 
effort, and money put forth. The 
Social Commission sponsored this 
activity, therefore we did what was 
necessary to organize and execute 
the plans. Maybe we didn't all 
agree on its implications, but we 
wanted to help make Homecoming 
better and more like the big 
Homecomings at other universi­
ties. Maybe we actually have made 
it special--at least people have been 
talking about it. 
Sue Turcotte 
P.S. Cornell has a Homecoming Queen! · 
Graduate Housing Problems 
Dear Editor: 
It was good to see that the Campus Life Council is interested in the problems of overcrowding in on-campus housing at Notre Dame. 
It is also excellent to see that 
constructive measures are being 
taken with regard to finding solu­
tions to this situation via a 
committee to look into alternatives 
of handling the dilemna. A 
problem arises, however, with 
regard to the suggested remedies 
offered by Student Body Vice­
President Michael Roohan. 
According to the Observer article 
of September 26, Mr. Roohan has 
stated that the ''best idea would be 
to convert St. Joseph's... or Brown­
son" and that this idea would not 
"deny people the residential life 
that's so special here at Notre 
Dame." I wonder if Mr. Roohan 
has noticed that St. Joseph and 
Brownson halls are not currently 
empty warehouses but graduate 
men's dormitories. 
Mr. Roohan's solution appears to 
be the eviction of the more than 120 
graduate men from St. Joseph and 
BrownsO'n halls in order to make 
room for some undergraduates. It 
should be noted that the graduate, 
law, and M.B.A students who 
currently reside in these halls 
consider themselves part of the 
Notre Dame Community and that 
these men also highly value the 
(esidential life of the Notre Dame 
campus. 
Furthermore, to evict them 
would be to deny to one group the 
benefits which the Campus Life 
Council is attempting to achieve for 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


yet another group. Mr. Roohan should also take note of the fact that the situation with regard to graduate men's housing is far more 
· critical than it is for the under­graduates. Although I am unsure of the exact figures, it is generally known that for every possible space in the two graduate halls, there are more than four applications each year. 
The idea of a committee to study the problems of overcrowding on campus is a laudable idea. However, to cavalierly sugge,st the eviction of 120 members of the Notre Dame community from their residence halls without even cgn" sidering'their opinion in the matter is a gross miscarriage of justice. Graduate students have remarked that they often feel that they are "second class citizens" at Notre Dame. The very suggestion of evicting them from campus without even consulting the Brownson and St. Joseph communities appears to validate this observation. Accord­ing to the Campus Life Council, it appears that the philosophy to be followed in solving the housing problem is, "What's ours is ours, and what's yours is negotiable." 
Michael H. Bmzynsld 

Chile: 
fu State of Transition 
Dear Editor: 
As a Chilean student at Notre Dame, I want to expres's my disapproval with some of the ideas expressed in your article "Student Government sponsors Third World Chilean movie." 
It is my opinion that a govern­ment which allows inflation to rise to world record levels, permits, because of its inefficiency, a great deal of human suffering to occur. · 
First, black markets develop where people pay five times the "official" prices. Long lines, worse than those suffered in the United States during the Arab oil embargo, become a, way of life for my people. 
Secondly, inefficiency and suffer­ing results from the illegal nation­alization of the major industries in the country. Well-trained manag­ers are replaced by inefficient bureaucrats and political hacks. All of these industries, without exception, were broke by Septem­ber, 1973, due to the mismanage­ment. 
Mr. Michael Francis claims that "Chile was, historically, one of the oldest democracies in the world until the overthrow of the govern­ment in September, 1973." This statement is misleading; how can a government which frees a group of murdering Ieftwing terrorists be called "democratic"? These are the same terrorists who, in ,1971, assassinated the former vice-pres­ident and were praised upon their release as "young idealists." 
The 36% that elected Allende in 1970 were mainly poor people that saw, in him, the chan(l.C to improve their sad conditions. Ironically, they were the ones who suffered the most. The poor people were not able to pay black market prices and had to stand in line to buy bread and meat -often all night. 
This is why for the majority of the Chileans, September 11 was a day of liberation. It represented the end of the hardest period in our history. A time where families were divided, and Chileans had lost their entire sense of unity. 
This statement may shock some, but the truth is that Chileans were happy when Allende was over­thrown. It is time that we get rid of the mythical idea that Allende's government was a democratic one. 
Only after we do this we will be able 
· to understand better the transition period Chile is going through, and who is responsible for it. 
.PedroGraa 

r '"" 
,,/%The Observer 
li o~n independent newspaper serving Box Q ' the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame a~~ Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of the administration of either institution. T~e . news is_ reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all me~bers of the community, and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters, is encoura~ed. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Cory Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Jkyan Gruley · Features Editor 
!Doug Christian :Photo Editor 
IMardi Nevin IJohn Tucker Bob Rudy 

;Production Manager . 1Business Manager !Advertising Manager 
, Friday, October 6, 1978 
-------~policy--------­
name, address and phone number 
The Observer encourages or' the author. The Observer 
comments from its readers. Letters reserves the right to edit all 
may be mailed to P.O. Box Q, submissions for -grammatical 
Notre Dame, IN. 46556; or the left errors, length, and libelous state­
at The Observer office on the third ments. 
floor of LaFortune Student Center. Names cannot be withheld on 
All letters submitted for publica-letters unless sufficient reason is 
tion must be typed and include the presented for doing so. 
commentary !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Student Etnployntent 
michael berberich 
For many of us, Notre Dame is a special place, one of the foremost 
educational institutions in the nation. We are here because we want to be 
here. 

A significant number of Notre Dame students must use campus 
el}lployment to help meet educational costs wh)clLa_re now over $5,000 per 
year. The majority of student employees are n'Gt-earning spending money; 
but, rather, they apply their wages directly toward the payment of tuition 
and board. 
Currently, the wage scale for most students employed on campus 
ranges from $2.50 to $3.15 per hour. The vast majority of students 
working in the dining halls earn below the minimum wage level. They 
receive. either $2.50 or $2.65, depending on whether they serve or do 
kitchen work. This represents a I cent per hour increase over the past 
year. Although most of us really enjoy working in the dining halls, the 
work done by student dining hall ~mployees is dirtier, smellier, more 
hazardous, and, at times, more inconvenient than other campus jobs (i.e. 
we must work immediately before and after football games; we are 
required to work the weekends before and after breaks, and we must work 
during finals week.) 
Many dining hall positions require skilled workers. Positions such as 
loading, unloading, running and jobs on the slop line are skilled jobs 
without which the dining halls would not function smoothly. For example, 
not many persons realize that ori each half of the South Dining Hall, 
during any meal period, one person alone must remove every glass on 
every tray used by each person who has eaten. After removing the 
glasses, this person must empty them, place the glasses in racks, and then 
load them onto a conveyor belt. 
Although the average person is sometimes perturbed by the slow 
movement of trays along the conveyor belt, he should imagine himself 
handling four to six glasses per tray non-stop for over two hours. This 
requires skill and spt'!ed. In addition there is the hazard posed by the 
frequen~y of broken glass. 
Other jobs, though somewhat less skilled, necessitate a great amount of 
fortitude. How many students would be willing to scrape with their bare 
hands partially eaten food, cigarette butts and other senseless waste from 
dishes into a trough filled with cold, filthy water? 
Educational costs at Notre Dame rose nearly $400 for this year alone. 
To help offset this increase, the student workers in the dining halls have 
received a I cent per hour increase for the semester, with the promise of 
"a substantial raise in January." Simply stated, this means that most 
students will receive an extra one or two dollars this semester to aid in 
meeting the $400 increase in our bill for the year. 
Over the past month, acommittee of studtlnts has pursued this concern, 
finally meeting with Thomas Bull, the University Director of Personnel 
and administrator responsible for setting the wage rates. Mr. Bull 
claimed that he did not believe the ~eeds of students were very pressing 
when compared with other members of Notre Dame's work force. 
We do not deny the need for improved wages for other members of the Notre Dame staff, and we greatly appreciate attempts by the University to keep costs down. However, we do not feel that this should be done at the expense of those who must use campus employment as ameans to offset escalating educational expenses. Although we realize ~an we can legally be paid below the minimum -:wage; we believe that tllctre is a moral obligation, which could be implemented at minimal costs, to pay the Nl$-e . Dame student employees a fair wage for their hard work and enthusia&tie 
s.ervice. Thank you. ­
/ 

---~~-----------------~­
Friday, October 6, 1978
10 the observer 
Letters to a Lonely God 

The Truth About Birthdays 

You can talk--to me about the eff'tciency Qf \ 'police states. You can tell me how smart, the Germans are. You can in!Oist that the Communists don't miss a trick. You can, praise totalitarian systems until the Gotter· dammenmg; but I won't believe a word of it, because I'm the slid American who made a fool of the East Getman govern· • ment. . 
F~eign governments like &st Oer· many. you see, are always interested in a tourist's birthdate. The way border guards and hotel clerks inquire about your birthdate, you might think ·they want to send you. a cake. ..Please stop at the desk, and tell the desk clerk your bltthdate;' the tour guard says. My instinctive reaction is to lie, as I have-lied for years, about the date that l was born; why should it be different In the grand hotels of Europe? They can look at my passport and see the date, but I'm not going to make things easy by writing it down. Travelling with the Glee Club this spring into East Germany, we were instructed by the tour guide to list our names and birthdates on a piece of paper to be handed over to the border 
guard. The ancient dishonesty automati. cally took over and I fooled the whole German government, because I named them a natal day that wasn't even mine. 
I won't say J wasn't scared. I knew I could be arrested and tortured as a liar, But not .even the sight of helmeted Huns standinl't in watchtowers with machine 

Fram l:h• Cre•l: af l:he New Wave--ELVIS 
Elvis Costello? ... What songs does he mobilize, and Costello warns the potenttal do? ... Oh .... Wait. Whadja say his name victims: "They're puttin' all your names I was again? In the forbidden book/ I know what they're Elvis Costello is the King of New Wave, doing/ But I don't want to look." After that marvelous sound comprised of at least establishing such an ominous tone, he three definite categories: nonclassifiable admonishes the soon-to-be Front followers: entities such as Patti Smith and Tom "You think they're so dumb/ You think Verlaine; power pop; and the infamous they're so funny/ 'Till they got you runnin' punk rock. This compendium draws from to their Night Rally." He tosses in a mid-60's groups and hits such as the glimpse of what's in store: "Everyone is Rolling Stones and "Gloria," which, in all fancy/ Treated glasses/ Some are in the turn, had their roots in 50s rock, (As back room/ And they're taking those night someone reasoned, "They can't call it 'old classes." "Rally's" threatening, march­old wave' because nobody would buy the like quality helps the listener conjure up an stuff, so they call it 'new wave' instead.") image of the ranks forming at the far end of It is nearly impossible to lump Costello in the boulevard. The whole idea may be any of the aforementioned groups,although exaggerated, considering that the National he probably resembles Smith andVerlaine Front is such a miniscule outfit. However, moce than any others. His music is the point definitely comes across. It makes definitely not simple-minded, three-chord you think. It disgusts. To a certain extent, 
punk, nor does it sound like rehashed it even frightens. Raspberries, yet it is still distinctly In another critical vein, "This Year's different in most ways from other Wave Girl" explores the annual rise and fall of soloists! Elvis stands alone with his starlets such as Farrah F. Costello notes slashing cynicism and his acrid anger, that excess oublicity and constant exposure under which lies a soul flagellated· by bring the public into too great a familiarity rejection. He sometimes scorns what he with the women. As he puts it: "See her loves most, but, again, spares no mercy for picture in a thousand places/' Cause she's the unjust. This Year's Girl." From here on, though, 
What happened to him that gave him such the lyrics become more personalized as he a hostile outlook towards everything? conveys his thoughts about meeting her to. Costello won't say anything about when he other male listeners. He sings'; "Forget was known in a working-class London your fancy manners/ Forget your English neighborhood as Declan McManus. He grammar/ 'Cause you don't really give a recently told a reporter from Gig magazine damn.... " But, he further develops the that if his background didn't mean fantasy, expecting that "she is well­anything to people then, he doesn't see any spoken/ 'Cause she's This Year's Girl." reason why it should"'now. About all the Costello's slamming guitar and throbbing public knows about him is that while he drums intensify his frustrations as hte was operating a computer at the Elizabeth follows up with a brutally sadistic scene in Arden cosmetic factory, he was also which he envisions himself ''rollin on hounding various English recording com­the carpet with This Year's Girl/ You see panies. Finally, in what seemed almost a her broken with her mouth wide open/ fruitless attempt, Costello persuaded 'Cause she's This Year's Girl." And, Radar Records to sign him on in 1977. when someone new finally comes along to Since then, his first LP, "My Aim is True," replace her, Costello simply reasons: proved to be a New Wave chartbuster, "She's forgotten, much more than she's something rather unusual for the regular lost." pop ratings. ""Ibis Year's Model~ , " his This leads in to the most prominent theme second LP in less than a year, is following in Elvis' music: resentment towards
-the same trend, and "I Don't Want to Go women. If reading some ofthe above lyrics to) Chelsea'' soared in sales last spring in arched your eyebrows, read on. From the Great Britain. (Unfortunately, "Chelsea" start, Elvis initiates the listener. In "No and "Night Rally", two of the best songs Action," he complains that his girl won't on the disk, are included only on British do anything besides talk to him on the pressings.) phone. Their relationship has dissolved, and, boy, do you know it: "The things in
Thematically, one of Costello's targets is 

my head/ Start hurtin' my mind, girl/:
society's sheeplike tendency to follow the 

Think about the way/ Things used to be/...
leader, whoever that may be. In the case of 

Sometimes I call you/ When I know you're 
"Night Rally," it is the National front, a 

not there/ But I was disconnected in time/
vehement and destructive group of British 

There's No Action." Even though Costello 
racists. Here, the mood is like that of an 

spews out venom, the lyrics betray him.
airless, emotion-void city waiting for the arrival of Nazis. The troops are ready to He's angry; yet he's beggmg for another· 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
try. Nobody wants to be rejected. 
"Lip Service" parallels these sentiments. He pretends to be self-sufficient, but he can't make it without the girl. "Lip Service is all you'll ever get from me," he snarls, but calms down quickly in the next line: "But if you change your mind/ You can still get a letter to me." It is this type of pleading that makes Costello all the more pathetic. His paranoia leads him to make various generalizations about women, also. 
In "Lipstick Vogue," he paints them as pretentious egomaniacs, except for the one who's the subject of the song: "It's you, it's you/ Not just another mouth in the Lipstick Vogue.'' 
At other times, such 111> in "Pump it_ Up," he can entice with his no-holds­barred brand of sexuality. The steadily punching bass and drums coupled with the low-key drone of the organ in the background enhance the rather explicit lyrics: "Pump it up when you don't really need it/ Pump it up/ When you do you can feel it." He also forms one of the more unusual rock'n'roll portraits of a woman in the next verse: "She. is like a narcotic/ You want to torture herI You want to talk to her." 
The· most sensous song on the whole album is, without a doubt, "Little Triggers." The rolling piano and the deliberate, dusky melody tantalize and arouse. This time, Costello is about to enter into a relationship, but with the tune takirig precedence here, the listener forgets the lyrics momentarily. Elvis forewarns the girl of what he doesn't want: "I don't want to be hung up, strung up/ When you don't call up." What is more, instead of growling or spitting his way through, he half-whispers the lyrics in a smooth, seductive style, telling her to get her act together: "Thinking all about the false sense of sequences/ Worryin' about the consequences/ Waiting until I come to my senses/ Better put it all in present tenses." 
The greatest thing about Costello is that he can transgress moods without mellowing out his choice of instruments. He always uses the same three or four in every song: guitar, bass, and organ or piano. No fuzzy synthesizers or fancy overdubs for him. Elvis once said in an interview that his music is for the common man. Therefore, if you have an elaborate stereo system, you may at first be surprised by the apparent simplicity of his arrangements. Howeyer, if you stop and examine them closely, the instruments punctuate the lyrics, especially those lightly bursting drum beats. The most original feature of his music, though, is the organ, the delicate classical riffs ofwhich underscore a sadistic sexuality or seething mockery. 
Whichever way one views him, the man elicits response. You either like him or you don't; but in this world of Aerosmiths and Bonnie Tylers, Elvis Costello is one hell of a genius. 
Ondy McKiel 12 the observer· Friday, October 6, 1978 


The Irish Extra 

ND-MSU resume series with 44th meeting 
b; Luu Severino Sports Writer 

The trademarks of .the Michigan State-Notre Dame. series have always been hard-hitting and aggressive play. ;';~se trademarks are exemplified by the number mf R'lr:ious injuries suffered Randy Payne (16) and 
during the series w<l:lich the Irish lead 26-16-1. John Dubenetzky (41)
The series began in 1897 as Notre Dame smashed Michigan 5-..t~te then 

attempt to block on
known as Michigan Agricultural Crnl.lege, 34-6. After eight consecutive trips •to South Bend and eight I stra.ight losses'\ MSU field-goal attempt. MSU recorded its first win of the series· . at East Lansing in. 1910 by a. score of 17-0. In 1921, the Irish routed MSU · 48-0, holding the Spartans without a first down. The ND defense of that season allowed on1y 41 points in 11 games. After the 1921 game, the two sc~ools did not meet again until1948. The Irish theri won both the 1948 and '49 gaines behind the running of Emil· Sitko and the passing of quarterback Bob Williams. 
'· 
The Irish signal-caller connected on 

Former lristl great
13-16 passes in the 1949 contest. Michigan State began a 14-year 

Tom Clements calls 
domination of the series in 1950 and proceeded to win 12· of the next 13 games. The only Irish triumph came in · signals against the 1954. Trailing 13-0, ND scored 20 consecutive points, led by the rushing of Spartans in Notre Dame Joe Heap, who amassed 110 yards on the ground. Former NFL MVP Earl Morrall Stadium. rallied the Spartans on a touchdown drive with a minute left in the game, but reserve guard Pat_ Bisceglia blocked the conversion attempt and ND eeked out a 20-19 decision. · · 

The 1955 win was the first for MSU under the guidance of Duffy Daugherty. Morrall guided the Spartans to a 21-7 win and was voted the MVP of the Irish a~opponent team at the end of more play. The game ended on a sour 
Heavens · ayed an outstanding game at the season. Daugherty's clubs ran· off note for the Irish as an obvious pass by AI Hunter, a 20-yard pass play from 
tailback, gaining 136 yards in 23 carries. eight straight wins over N0tre Dame, interference call went undetected by the Rick Slager to Terr.y Eurick, and a one­
Defensively, Bob Colic rolled up 18 until 1964 when Ara Parseighan took back judge who had slipped and fallen on yard Slager toss to Ken MacAfee. 
tackles and intercepted a pass as the over as the Irish head coach. Heismar. the play. An unusual ending to a game Michigan State was hampered by poor 
Irish defense held Michigan State with­Trophy winner John Huaite completed with an equalling unusual opening. 
field position all day as Joe Restic 
ot a touchdown for the second consecu­11 of 17 passes for 214 yards in the 35-7 Joe The;smann was the star of the averaged 46.3 on six punts. 
tive year. NDwin. 1969 game, co1npleting 20-33 passes for 
Last year's game was marred by ten 
This year's matchup will probably fit The tables were turned the following 249 yards and threto touchdowns, in turnovers, due in part to offensive 
well in the history of the Notre Dame­year as the Spartan defense, paced by addition to rushing for :i1 more. 
mistakes but also largely because of hard 
Michigan State series. Look for a 268-pound Bubba Smith ·and linebacker Fullback Bill Barz scored on three short hitting .by both defenses. Dave Reeve 
hardhitting low-scoring game as these George Webster, held. Notre Dame to plunges as the Irish rolled up a 42-48 booted three field goals, including (i 
two traditional rivals square off for the . just 12 yards total offense. Ken Ivan's win. The only embarrassing moment for !>cl-lool record 51 yarder as Notre Dame 
44th time. 32-yardlt'ield goal was all the scoring the Notr.e Dame came in the first half as an Irish could muster as MSU prevailed attempted quick kick from the ND nine· 12-3. . backfired. The kick hit Spartan Line­
Thet 1966 matchup, al5o known as backer Ron Crul squarely in the chest, chalked u a 16-6 erome 
Individual total offense leaders 
the II game of the century ,11 is p·robably and MSlJ recovered and went on to an the most famous college . game . of easy score. all-time. The two teams. had a combined I · There were no embarrassing moments 
G PL>\YS YARDS AVG
total of 17 first or second-team \All­for Notre Dame in the 1970 contest. THe· Montana 3 86 429 5.0
Americans and were ranked 1-2 ·in the Irish defeated MSU 29-0 for their first Ferguson 3 67 240 3.6
nation at game time.-The Irish rallied • win at East Lansing in 21 years. A crowd Heavens 3 43 200 4.7
from a\ 10-0 deficit behind reserve 1 of 3,000 students watched on closed-quarterback Coley O'Brien and. gained a . circuit televison at the ACC as Ara. 10-10 tie. Although ND was severely Parseighan's club rolled up 513 yards in 
RUSHING G TC YDS .o:vc. TJ;> LG criticized for playing for a tie in the final total offense. The defense was equally 
Ferguson 3 67 240 3.6 1 15 ---­minutes, the· Irish came back to rout dominant as the Walt Patulski led unit 
Heavens 3 43 200 4.7 1 26 USC, 51-0 the following week, and were limit-ed the Spartans to 174 yards. 
Stone 3 1 34 34.0 0 34 voted National Champions by both wire The Notre Dame defense continued 
ND 3 134 455 3.4 2 34
services. their superiority over Michigan State for The games of the ten-year period from the next three years holding the Spartan 
OPP 3 155 454 2.9 1 24 1967-77 continued the tradition of the offense without a touchdown. bruising hard-fought battles of the past. The 1973 National Championship team Although not as high-scoring as other received their sternest regular season 
PASSING G NO COMP PCT INT YDS TD Irish rivalries, the NO-Michigan St. test against the Spartans under new 
Montana 3 68 36 .529 4.38 1
~ 

series continued to produce exciting head coach Denny Stolz. Despite ND 3 69 36 .522 6 438 1 games, embellished by bizarre occur­outgaining MSU 266-49, the Irish could OPP 3 69 35 .507 2 387 3 
rences which only added to their glamor. only manage a 14-10 win. The NO The enthusiasm for the 1967 contest touchdowns came on an 11-yard run by was dampened as both the Irish (3-2) and Wayne Bullock and a 10-yard Tom 
PASS RECEIVING G PC YDS AVG TD LG Spartans (2-3) were off to p{Y.;.r starts. Clements-Pete Demmerle pass play. 
Ferguson 3 9 64 7.1 0 15 Michigan State also playP..i without six MSU's only touchdown came on a 30­
Holohan 3 6 98 16.3 0 28 regulars suspended for curfewviolations. yard interception return by Ray Nester.· 
Heavens 3 4 36 9.0 0 16 by Daugherty. Despite their losses the Wayne Bullock enjoyed an outstand­
Haines 3 3 73 24.3 0 34 Spartans put up a good fight before ing game in 1974 at East Lansing. The 
Mastak 3 3 40 13.3 0 17 bowing 24-12. Irish sophomore fullback rugged fullback carried a school record 
Grindinger 3 3 28 9.3 1 17 J eft Zimmerman scored three touch­36 times gaining 127 yards as ND 
Vehr 3 2 38 19.0 0 23 downs and ran for 135 of NO's 280 yards defeated a stubborn Michigan State 
Condeni 2 2 25 12.5 0 17 rushing. squad 19-14. 
Stone 3 2 9 4.5 0 16 On the Friday before the 1968 game, The Spartans handed Coach Dan 
Hart 3 1 16 16.0 0 16 Duffy Daugherty told the press he was Devine his first loss as a Notre Dame 
Mitchell 3 1 11 11.0 0 11 thinking of opening the game with an coach with their 10-3 upset in 1975. 
ND 3 36 438 12.2 1 34onside kick. The reaction of the writers Reserve fullback Tyrone Wilson's 76­OPP 3 35 387 11.1 3 40was II skeptical." But sure enough MSU yard run with four minutes left set uo tried and succeeded in recovering an Levi Jackson's winning four-yard-touch­onside kick on the opening play of the down scamper in a typical hard-fought, 
PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LG game the next day. Michigan State won low scoring Michigan State-Notre Dame! 
Restic 3 16 577 36.1 5121-17, but only after stopping NOon first game. 
ND 3 16 577 36.1 51and goal from the two late in the ga,me. The Irish gained revenge the following OPP 3 13 812 35.3 51
Three unsuccessful running plays set up year the Spartans 24-6. The ! a f(IJrth and with time for or:~ly one Irish 


!,.' ~: ·: 
.. ·· .. 
_4.~· .~.· 

The Irish Extra 
Irish hope to even record against MSU 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish, fresh off their first 
win of the 1978 season, will try to even 
their record at 2-2 when they travel to 
Ea"St Lansing to face the Michigan State 
Spartans. 
The Spartans, 30-9 losers to Southern 
Cal last week, are0-1 in the Big Ten, and 
1-2 overall. Michigan State's offense is 
centered around senior quarterback Eddi 
Smith, who won the conference passing 
title as a sophomore in 1976. 
Kirk Gibson provides Smith with a 
legitimate All-American target for his 
aerials. In his three-year Spartan career, 
Gibson has snared 70 passes, 17 9f them 
for touchdowns. His lifetime mark of 
22.0 yards per catch is as good as you'll find in the nation. 
A trememdous all-around athletr~, 
Gibson was the Detroit Tigers' fir~A-pick 
in last spring's freP ~P..'l1t draft after 
playing only one -season of collegiate 
ball. Due to a new NCAA rule, Gibson 
. __, f.lermitted to sign with the Tigers 
and still retain his final year of football 
eligibility. 
Notre Dame's defensive secondary, 
tested in its last two games by Michi­
gan's Rick Leach and Mark Herrmann of 
Purdue, will be under the gun once 
again. 
Backfield coach Jim johnson's men, 
burned by three second-half touchdown ·passes flung by Rick Leach, acquitted themselves nicely last Saturday against 
Purdue. 
Mark Herrmann, who picked apart the 
Notre Dame secondary a year ago, was 
limited to 15-for-30 passing, for 161 
yards; a far cry from last years' 351 
yards passing. The backs were helped 
by an improved pass rush and timely 
blitzes. 
Strong safety Jim Browner, whose 


and have been haunted by 12 turnovers 
in the first three games. 
Jerome Heavens, whose 26-yard touchdown jaunt against the Boiler­makers was Notre Dame's longest 1'uf• from scrimmage this c;ea.'iM., -r1eeds 188 yards to catch Ceorge Gipp as Notre Dame's all-tin1e leading rusher. 
Quarterl:>,ack Joe Montana hit on seven of 11 t,rosses against Purdue, but was int~rcepted twice. The senior from llv1onongahela, PA, has yet to rip a 
1'defense apart, but that is due in a large part to the fact that Notre Dame threw the ball only once in 25 first-down plays against Purdue. 
For the Spartans, senior Tom Graves heads up a tough secondary from his strong safety position. Graves, a hard-hitter at 215 pounds, is joined at the other safety spot by Mark Anderson, who led the Spartans with six intercep­tions in 1977. 
If the Irish choose to continue their pattern of running straight up the gut, they will find a pair of outstanding 

first-half blitz forced a Herrmann fumble on the Notre Dame 12, drew the comparison between Leach and Herr­mann. 
"Rick Leach passed a lot but he was also a running threat. We had to think a lot more about the run in the secondary when Leach was quarterbacking," said. Browner. "With Herrmann, the last thing we knew he would do is run with the football." 
Fortunately for Browner· and his cohorts, Smith's style more closely resembles Herrmann's than Leach's. The 6-foot-1, 168-pounder will not run away from Michigan State's pro-style offense unless he is in dire straits. 
Notre Dame free safety Joe Restic is still hobbling on crutches, and may once again be restricted to his punting chores. 
Randy Harrison wi11 step in for Restic, and the difference shouldn't be notice­able. 
At the right corner, sophomore Tom Gibbons fills in for Tom Flynn, who has a fractured toe. Gibbons distinguished himself in his first varsity start against Purdue with nine tackles, four of them solos. Gibbons' bone-rattling hits are fast making him a favorite of the student bod)!. · 
[.)!vid Waymer holds down the other corner, and he is coming off an exceHent performance against Purdue. Twice in the first half he saved Purdue touch­downs by breaking up Mark Herrmann passes. 
On offense, Notre Dame is still seeking to get untracked. The Irish have averaged only eight points per game, defensive tackles waiting. 
Melvin Ladd and Angelo Fields form a Mutt an'd Jeff combination if there ever was one.' Ladd, a senior, is relatively small at 6-foo-3 and 236. But he excels in the pit due to his superior quicknes~. 
Fields, on the other hand, relies on brute strength. At 6-foot-6, 285 pounds, . it's easy to see why. 
lfthe game is close, Michigan State's punter Ray Stachowicz may make a difference. The sophomore booter led the Big Ten in punting average last fall with a 40.2 average. 
This is the first road test of the season for the Irish. They will put a four-game road winning streak on the line, dating back to last year's 31-24 win at Purdue. The last te;om to defeate Notre Dame on the road was Mississippi. 
How they match up 
The  The  
Irish  Spartans  
In the trenchts:  
NO Offense  Mich. State Defense  

L T -Rob Martinovich L T -Angelo Fields LG -J1m Hautman C -Dave Huffman MG -Bernard Hay RG -Tim Huffman RT -Tim Fole)' RT-Mel Land 
NO Defense Mich. State OUense LE-Jay Case L T -Jim Hinesly L T -Jeff Weston LG -Mike Densmore 
C -Matt Foster RT -Mike Calhoun RG -Rod Strata RE -john Hankerd RT -Craig Lonce 
On the run: 
NO Offense QB-joe Montana 
HB -Vegas Ferguson FB -Jerome Heavens 
NO Defense LLB -Steve Heimkreiter MLB -Bob Colic RBL -Bobby Leopold Mich. State Defense OLB -Johnny Lee Haynes ILB -Steve Otis ILB -Dan Bass OLB -Larry Savage 
Mich. State Offense QB-Ed Smith TB -Leroy McGee FB -Lonnie Middleton 
On the pass: 
NO Offense QB -Joe Montana SE -Kris Haines TE -Dennis Grindinger FL -Mike Courey 
NO Defense LCB-Dave Waymer SS -Jim Browner FS -Randy Harrison RCB-Tom Gibbons Mich. State Defense SS-Tom Graves WS -Mark Anderson LCB -Jerome Stanton RCB -Mike Marshall 
Michigan State Offense QB-Ed Smith TE -Mark Brammer SE -Eugene Byrd FL -Kirk Gibson 


The Irish guard will be keeping their eyes on the action this weekend as the Notre Dame band travels to East lansing for the game [photo by Ddug Christian]. 

Friday, October 6, 1978 the tbsener 13 
'' 
The Irish Extra  
·Ray O'Brien====================:====================::====================:====================:================================================================================:====================::====================:=======================================  
I may be wrong, but • • • •  
t=============================~========::========================================:==================================================================================:==============================================================:=========================== The Irish EyeWith no major battles taking place Terrapins have pinned me with two romp by 17. McCoy dittos the ditto. should have a cake walk but in regional outside of Texas, the Top Ten should errors already this year. I can't figure rivalries the spread rarely holds. That remain intact. However, its always how Claiborne can do it but he ought to Oklahoma at Texas: The Sooners are doesn't mean I'm going to pick an upset. around this point in ·the season that a tell basketball coach Lefty Driesell who's ranked number one in the country after McCoy says it will be the Aggies by 3 powerhouse is upset by the also ran. had talent and squandered it. The mauling Mizzou last week. The Long­which sounds good to me. The battle between Texas and Oklahoma Wolfpack are an explosive team and horns aren't far back in the sixth position should be as good as last year. Whoever upset Maryland last year but this one is which is just about where these two C.W. Post at Kings Point: The Mariners wins will gain that necessary momentum at home and the Terps will want a little teams stood last year. It was a great are coming off a losing season andto make an undefeated season. It is the hometown revenge. I'll convert and go game then and it is sure to be one of the haven't been able to make the offenseonly decent gameon TV as the Notre with Maryland by 8. McCoy chooses the best games of the year. The game is at go. C.W. Post has an awesome defenseDame-Michigan game will not be tele­Terps by 3. Dallas which should give Texas and edge and shut out Pete Carmichael's team lastcast tnot that it will be more interesting but Oklahoma just has more talent this year. Even though the game's at homeanyway). There are some good match­Navy at Air Force: Believe it or not, the year. If the Sooners go without a fumble (Kings Point, NY) the Merchant Marines ups in the East including the Yankees­Irish's trip to Cleveland will not be a they will win convincingly, but since that just don't have the muscle as theK. C. series that has N.Y. written all over picnic. George Welsh and the Middies is too much to ask for I'll pick them by a Pioneers take it by 10. McCoy is on ait. With the help of noted Mishawaka have not lost and soundly defeated long field goal. McCoy agrees on the plane back east getting scouting reports. playboy, Tim "Beak" McCoy here is Boston College last week. Air Force is margin, but calls for an Erxleben field  
how the scores will come in. no match this year regardless of where goal. the game is played. It's l:>een a long Arkansas at TCU: You guessed it--this isBrown at Princeton: The Bruins were drought by Navy picks their fourth in a Rutgers at Yale: Don't laugh, this is one the sure bet for the week. Find someonefavored to take the Ivy League title but row as they shoot down the Falcons by of the biggest battles in the East. Yale is to give you Arkansas-even and then bethaven't produced so far. They lost their 10. McCoy agrees. on their way to another lvy League title everything you have. The Razorbacksall important opener against Yale and while Rutgers attempts to finish the keep winning but continue to gethaven't recovered. Those Princeton men Alabama at Washington: No one knows season with their 10 wins and annual loss mediocre ratings much to the dismay of are proving that they can do more than how good the Crimson Tide is, but its to Penn. St. This game will only once Lou Holtz. Despite the fact that themanipulate calculators as they have obvious they are not the best. Bear again prove that the Ivy League should game is at TCU, I'll go out on a limb and surprised everyone. Despite the fact continues to blame it all on himself but keep to their league and not mess with pick the Razorbacks by 35 as they finally that the game is at Princeton, Brown will any tum that has trouble with Vander­the less intelligent athletes in the move up in the rankings. McCoyrecover from a poor start and begin to bilt must re-examine their talent. One of country'. Rutgers wins by 10. McCoy oonservatively takes Arkansas by 17. turn the season around with a 6-point these days Alabama will put it all takes Rutgers by 8.victory. McCoy predicts Brown by three. together but it won't be under these  
circumstances. Alabama will squeeze Notre Dame at Michigan State: TheStanford at UCLA: Both these teamsMississippi at Georgia: The Bulldogs out another 6-point win. McCoy tabs Irish didn't prove much last week but awon't win the race in the Pac 10 but they have been whistling Dixie so far this year Bear's Boys by 10. change of scenery might help (it couldn't are always entertaining. Expect bothas they proved themselves by knocking hurt). The Spartans expected big things, teams to throw at least 25 times. Theoff Clemson. On the other hand, the Penn State at Kentucky: Last year Penn but have come up short due to injuriesonly problem is that the receivers.Rebels have not improved as expected State lost one game that cost them the and a tough USC team. Their offensehaven't been catching them. The home and Notre Dame won't be around to National Championship. You guessed has been weak, so the pattern of gamesteam advantage will be a factor as themake the best of another losing season. it--the Wildcats were the spoilers. you've seen up to now shouldn't change. Bruins grab a 9 point victory. McCoyStill, a battle between these two is Paterno's crew is undefeated again and Watch Montana to go to the air more goes with UCLA by a field goal.always exciting but Georgia should win have an excellent chance to grab that often against MSU now that Haines is  
as expected by a field goal. McCoy likes MacArthur Bowl that has constantly back to full strength. Their success will the Bulldogs by 10. slipped from within their grasp. Texas Tech at Texas A&M: What a make the difference. McCoy likes ND by Remember what ND did to Georgia Tech week of football for Texans. They can't 7 and I MAY BE WRONG BUT I'LL North Carolina St. at· Maryland: The last year. Ditto hear as the Nittany Lions lose in this one. ·On paper the Aggies PICK THE IRISH BY A TOUCHDOWN.  
.The game of the century I========:::========:==================================================================:=====================:=======================================:==========================:=====================:=========================================:=:============ 19, 1966 Notre Dame versus Michigan State--it MSU was barefooted kicker Dick Kenny, exceeded them. On an overcast after­move. Webster and Smith were all over has been a good sectional rivalry for at the time the best kicker at the college noon in East Lansing, before a roaring the field for State. Lynch, Page and many years. But one autumn it was the level. crowd of 80,011 people (the MSU Hardy were involved on almost every most important college football game of The Spartans defense featured the two stadium's capacity is listed at 76,000) the play for the Irish. the season and one of the most best defensive players of the day: two giants of college football did battle. O'Brien drove into MSU territory nearmemorable ever played. defensive tackle Bubba Smith and rover Injuries altered the offensive lineups for the end of the third period. Oh the firstThe year was 1966. Notre Dame was George Webster. Smith, an enormous both teams. Spartan fullback Bob Apisa play of the last period Azzaro booted a 288-D and ranked first in both the AP and 6-7 and 285 pounds, was a terror on the was hurt and consequently replaced by yard placement to knot the score at 10.UPI polls. Michigan State, with a 9-D field. State fans would shout, "Kill, Regis Cavendar. Eddy, who had injured Those were to be the final points scoredrecord, was second in both polls. The Bubba, Kill;' to incite him. Webster was an ankle earlier, did not play. Hanratty in the contest.battle was set for Saturday, November probably the best athlete in the collegi­injured his shoulder early in the contest Both teams had chances to score but19, in East lansing. The game captured ate game at the time. He made and was replaced by fellow sophomore the respective defenses--the story of thethe imagination of the country like no game-breaking plays constantly and was .Coley O'Brien. game--were not to be dented. other regular season collegiate grid equally adept at defending against the The defensive units dominated theclash. pass anci the run. The best scoring chance came afterfirst quarter and neither team was ableThe Irish had a powerful offense Irish safety Schoen intercepted a JimmyThe game received national attention to mount much of a drive until thefeaturing the running of halfback Nick Raye pass and returned it deep in Statethroughout the week preceding the Spartans began to move the ball near theEddy and the sophomore passing combi­territory. The Notre Dame offensegame. From Tuesday through Saturday, end of the gaining stage. The firstnation of Terry Hanratty and Jim couldn't move and Azzaro was called onthe New York Times carried two stories quarter ended without any score butSeymore. Hanratty and Seymore had to attempt a \41-yard field goal with 4:40about the game each day, one about MSU was in Irish territory. They cashed made their varsity debut--the rule prohi­left in the game. The kick sailed wide to Michigan State and the other about in on th:'. chance at the 1:40 mark asbiting the use of freshmen in varsity the right and the game ended in a tie.Notre Dame. On Thursday the Times Cavendar hulled over the goaline from 4 games was in effect then--on national ran a candid shot of Duranko and Lynch yards out. With the conversion MSU Notre Dame remained the top ranking television against Purdue and had taking a break from their classes. On had a ,seven-point lead. They added to in both polls, largely because they had captured the hearts of football fans Friday, a picture of the pep rally, held in this margin seven minutes later when played without offensive stars Hanrattyeverywhere. The offensive line featured the old Fieldhouse, was printed. Kenny boomed a 47-yard field goal. and Eddy. The next week the Irish  

the names Kueckenberg, Regner, Seiler Pictures and stories of MSU's Smith-­Trailing 10-0, reserve signal· O'Brien mauled Southern California 51-D and in and Goeddeke. 

and what he• did to opposition ball rallied the Irish offense with his passing. doing so sealed the national title. (Notre The defensive unit may have been the carriers--made him a legend. His last pass on al54-yard drive was a 34 Dame did not accept bowl bids in those best ever to step on the field for Notre yard pass to Bob Gladieux for :::' ·days.)
The Irish took a train to East Lansing.Dame. The defensive line included As they were leaving a private plane flew touchdown. Joe Azzaro's extra point Tomorrow's game should
tackles Pete Durando and Kevin Hardy over the Notre Dame campus and made the score 10-7. That's how it stobd interesting and competitive but it willand end Alan Page, all of whom later dropped thousands of leaflets addressed at the half. · ~~-: no way approach that match ofplayed professional football. Team to "The peace loving villagers of Notre In the third quarter both seasons ago, but it sure resurrectscaptain J im Lynch was a star at 

Dame" and went on to say how their were superb. Neither team memories.
linebacker. The tap deep back was Tom leaders were deceiving them by telling

Schoen. .(
them they had a chance to win the game. "Michigan State had just as impressive A Notre Dame fan retaliated by 
'Editor: Ray
1 a cast of players. The offense was dropping thousands of flyers on the MSU directed by veteran signal caller J immy campus reminding Spartan fans which Raye. The halfback was Clint Jones and team was/No. 11. 
1Layout and
Hawaiian Bob Apisa was the fullback. After all this pre-game hoopla, the Gene Washington was the Spartan split game had a lot to live up to; but it not 
I ,end. Another great off~nsive threat for only reached those expectations, it 1 -----·-------.-------·------------­
~---·-----·~· 

\, 
~r·;~-·:c·4~::~t-h:e:o~b~s~e~::e~r~~~~~~~~~~~F-ri-~-y,-o-ct-~-e-r6-,-,9-n---.-,--------------------­
l 
l 
l 
I 


. 
Mountaineerlng#2. 
au In.OUri~ 

taineer. And this is an ad. The subject of which is selecting the proper gear for ~~~;,... mountaineering.(It all fits to­gether so nicely, doesn't it?)
First and foremost, you'll need to pop the mountaintop. For this task, faithful moun­taineers use a church key. Secular moun­taineers use a bottle opener. Don't be con­fused by these antics with semantics. Just remember, the opener is your primary tool. Be true to it and it will be true to you.
Second, choose a glass. Here the optionsbecome immense. German steins, hand­
~._.blown pilseners,old jelly jars, thatcute little. 
key used by 
mountaineers.) 
Boffo mug you've had since third grade .. · 
Be adventurous. Experiment. Most 

mountaineers have a personal preference. You'll develop one too. 
Food is next. Propermountaineering, not to mention proper nutri­tion, requires a smorgas­bord selection of snacks. 
Some mountaineers have suffered from a potato chip deficiency, 

a pretzel imbalance or other serious dietary de­fects. Plan ahead. 
public, pick a paddedbar stool, 
I
~~~~~ preferably
one that 
spins
(to facili­tate admir­ing the 
scenery). At home, a com­
fortable chair or sofawill do. Rule of thumb: ifit feels good, andthe police
don't seem tomind, do it. 
Then turn on the tube or spin a tune or crack a good bookThe choice is strictlybetweenyou and the dominant hemisphere
ofyourbrain. Ofcourse, some mountaineers say the smooth, re­freshing taste of Busch 
is entertainment enough.
thank . do,because 
it's an excellent 
conclusion. 

Dorrt just reach for a beer. BUSCH~an for the mountains. 
Anheuser-Busch. Inc St Lou1s. Mo 

\ 


Bars 
l)oc Pierce's Saloon; 120 N. Main, Misha­waka. A favorite watering hole of one of my housemates. The good Doctor provides a western atmospere with much better­than-average drinks. It has been rumored that some ND profs have been seen there, so you know it can't be too expensive. 
Ice House; 100 Center, Mishawaka. The 100 Center is a nice place to go just for the interesting shops. The Ice House makes it even nicer. 
Holly's Landing; 1717 Lincolnway East. Even though it's a chain in a five state area, the deccr and service are more than adequate for a few peaceful drinks. 
Lee's B.B.Q.; Always a favorite. Excellent ribs and low prices on booze. If you haven't been there, go. 
Senior Bar; If you're an underclassman, forget it-they :heck ID's· pretty tough. But if you're 21 and an alumni or senior, this is the place to get happy with your class­mates. Operlrtor Mike Schlageter and Co. offer a really swingin' time. 
Cinnebar's; South Bend's only disco. (and that's a real shame). Three other shames: a dance floor that accomodates 17 people standing still; overpriced drinks; and a ventilation system that blows warm air onto the dance floor. But if getting dressed up and dancing to good disco is for you, then this is the place to go. 

Vegetable Buddies; This week: October 6--0uray a country-rock band from Chicago; October 7--John Mayall and Harvey Mandel, one set by Mandel and two full sets by Harvey and Mayall; October 9--Zindel's The Effects of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds by Chariot Productions; October 11--Listen, a rock and roll band; October 12--Night 
Vision,, a jazz and blues-band; October 13, 14--Martin, Bogan, and the Annstrongs, the only authentic old time black string band. 
Eddie's; 1345 N. Ironwood. Excellent piano bar and good drinks. 
PBS (Channel 34) 
Pumping Iron (1977); October 8, 9 pm. The bodybuilding mystique is the focus of this documentary that follows the training and competition for the World Bodybuilding Championship. 

Vema, USO Girl; October 11, 8 pm. Sissy Spacek and Sally Kellerman star in this tale of a stage-struck young actress who acheives immortality as a performer during WWII. This Emmy-nominated production is based on a story by Paul Gallico. 

Leontyce Price Live at the White House; October 8, 7 pm. Famed soprano Leontyce Price will sing before Presirlent Carter and Mrs. Carter, their guests, and a nationwide audience at the White Htmse Sunday.. Price will give a recital in the· East Romp. which will include arias by Puccini anll Handel, a group of songs by Richard Strauss, songs by five American compo­sers, and several spirituals. 
Julia Child and Company; October 7, 7:30 pm. For all of the on-campus people who like to cook and all of the off-campus people who hate it, Child's new show will focus on the planning and preparation of complete meals for special occasions. Included in her special occasion shows are "Dinner for the Boss" (or Professor), "New England Pot Luck Supper" (left­overs), "Lo-Cal Banquet" (for those who munch between meals), and "Buffet for 19" (section dinner). 
Charlie Smith and-the Fritter Trees; October 9, 8 pm. An original drama about America's oldest living citizen, a 135-year­old former slave. The story follows Charlie from the slave ship to his life as a cattle driver to the present day. 
Marie Curie; October 11, 7 pm. A naive 
young governess, Maria Sk}Odowska, 
leaves Warsaw to study physics in Paris. 
She proves to be a dedicated young physicist and becomes the first woman in _Europe to achieve a doctorate. 

Performance 

Chicago Symphony Quartet; October 9;" Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander; 
8:15 pm. Library Auditorium, Admission October 6, 7, 12, 13, 14; 8 pm. O'Laughlin 
Sl. Auditorium. ND-SMC Theatre kicks off its 1978-79 season with this producflhn from Preston Jones' Te:us Trilogy. Make sure to ~et your tickets early--limited seating will be available due to a !ipecial· stage design by senior Jim Casurella. 
EdwUd Parmentier, Harpsichord; October 8; 8 pm. SMC Little Theatre. 
NeD Young with "Crazy Horse"; October 
12; 8 pm. ACC. ND Student Union. keeps 
the concerts coming this fall with Young 

NEIL YOON<i_ and his brand of country/rock. H you .!..!!:::=..-'==~ didn't use the extra 58.50 for the Yes concert (and even if you did), this one will also be worth your time and money. 
Friday, Octob~r: 6, 1918~ 
' Lectures 
"The As81181ilnatlon of John F. Kennedy.,; October 10; 7 pm. Library Auditorium; A film lecture that raises questions and looks for answers in the killing of JFK. 
"The As8118Sinatlon of Marlin Luther King"; October 11; 7 pm. Library Auditor­ium. Mark Lane, attorney for James Earl Ray, will discuss Ray's reasons for asking for a retrial because of Ray's supposed innocence. 
"The Great Powers and the Middle Eut"i October 10, 11, 12; 4 pm. Library Auditorium. John Campbell. 
State of Siege; October 6, 7:30 pm. W abington Hall. This French-produced movie about a terrorist kidnapping in 'Uruguay completes the Third World Film 
Festival until November. 
Dr. Zhlvago; October 7; 8 pm. Carroll Hall (SMC). Starring Omar Sharif. Take your winter coat because the wfnter scenes are real and look so cold that you'll be shivering before you know it. Excellent scenery, music, costumes. Sometimes the plot drags, but it's worth seeing once, at least once without commercials. 
Tlie' Sting; October 6; 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Robert Redford, Paul Newman. This one isn't as good after you've seen it once, buJ: the· acting, the costumes, and the music are excellent and make it worthwhile to see again. 
Paper Chase; October 12, lJ; 7, 9, 11 pm.; Engineering Auditorium. A detailed fictional ac<:ount of the pr~blems, pres­sures, and hassles oneusuallyencounters in law school. 
A Clockwork Orange; October 7,8; 7, 9:30, 12 midnight; Engineering Auditorium. Stanley Kubrick's masterful film dealing with violence, unprovoked violence, and possible remedies. Worth seeing, me little droogies, whether it's your first or fifth viewing. Be sure to get there early for a good seat! 
_____t 111rvuua
11h~..~:all.....!obU&.Ysua 111rL-_1JI.li• 
Other 
Oktoberfest; October 6; 3-6 pm. Hap~ Hour and Gong Show at Goose's Nest. : 9-1 am. Biergarten and Dance with '"Hot Springs," . SMC. Regina Hall. 

Morris Civic; Shrine Circus (small animal 
acts) October 7; 10 am., 2, 8 pm.; October 
8; 1, 5 pm. 

Century Center; October 9; 8 pm. -Ron Wray. Poetry Reading. 
Up In Smoke; Ri_ver Park; 7:30, 9:30 ptd. Starring Cheech Marin, Tommy Chong, Stacy Keach. What can be said about Cheech and Chong? The nationally-known comedy duo has moved from albums and concert appearances to ·movies. H the 
movie is anything like their live or recorded performances, then the film should be good entertainment. The advertisement reads "Don't go straight to see this movie," so you can make your own estimations of the film's content. 
The Boys from BrazU; Scottsdale Mall. Starring Gregory Peck, Lawrence Olivier,. James Mason. Prom the novel by Ira Levin. 
F!l&IPlay; 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:30. Town and Country II. Starring Chevy Chase and Goldie Hawn. Another "Saturday Night" graduate makes it big with this first-rate. spy spoof. Hawn continues the space cadet role sr'" played so well on "Laugh-In" so many moons ago. Good fun. 
Goin' South; Forum Cinema II; Starring Jack Nicholson. A long-awaited film from Nicholson who has been noticeably absent from recent screen productions. 
Animal House; 1:30, 3:40, 5:45, 7:50, 10 pm. Town and Country I. Starring John Belushi. Crazy, hilarious, raunchy, good. ' All this and more from "Saturday Night's" resident nut, and Second City's outrageous 
Harold 'Ramus. Collegiate humor at its best. toga! Toga! Toga! 
! I 

, I 


... fJ' j . ' f ~ •. ,· J" ... 'I • 

JPaG•ae•
• 

Qa(])(]) ill®~~~ ill®~(f} 



2L<ID(]).fi~ll<IDJ;Y ~<ID mrm lF<ID~~rmw <ID~ 1rrnrm rrrn<ID~~ W<ID<IDIE&:l <IDI:r ~~I:r®ffi~\D~rll ~~ ~s(l)Cl) ~\D~~~ ~<aill~o 
la&cnlllP&GP68l8llBG:Ia'Vall8t' 
-~ ca-o~ IF®®1ru3~& m:!CDmlll~~ IF®lli IFll~~~ill"CD'rn(f}ill ·~ :rn:EmL "S!'®~(f} CD®~CDl:mill~ ~llCDrn.Im~~ e~ll m:!CDimm~ ~~~~~~CD®~ 
~® ~m ill®XIPECD®D oCi!CB W~CDl:m 

• ~~\C/Wlll~~ lloiDo ffiat~Wllffir!IID 
•ll :..f-J.fi(])lf!.fiCDlll Wllllli 2Plllffi~<ID~ 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~--------------------------------------~------------------~ 
_~_n_da_y_,_o_ct_o~b_e_r_6~,_1_97_8______________~1~nHigL.~ 1IJIMl 
u 

Delivery of magazines may change 

WASHINGTON [AP] -Because 1974, 1975, and 1978. The addi­the companies are expected to William F. Bolger has appointed a future increases in subscription of increases in postal rates, in tional increases for second-class concentrate on urban and suburban high-level task force to study what rates through alternate delivery coming yc;:ars your magazines may have come annually since 1972. areas, where people live close can be done to retain second-class systems. be brought to your door by a Already, an "alternate deliver" together. They are not expected to mail volume. Better Homes & Gardens says yopngster instead of to your industry is springing up to serve serve rural areas where deliveries Second-class rates have gone up private delivery costs it about 10 mailbox by a letter carrier. mass-circulation magazines that are most expensive. 'fhe Postal in part for the same reason as cents a copy, while its mail bills 
That may save you money on now pay billions of dollars in postal Service would continue io deliver to first-class. The most important of i now are 13.6 cents. It already uses magazine subscriptions, but it has bills yearly to get their products to these areas -at a still higher cost to these is wage increases won by ' private carriers in six cities and the Postal Service worried about subscribers. the remaining customers. postal workers, sometimes under plans to add at least 10 more. second-class mail and the rates for "Since 1971, the price of a The Postal Service's concern can threat of national strike. Reader's Digest uses private it. first-class stamp has more that be seen in the comments of Francis By law, first-class mail rates delivery to about 150,000 California 
The publishing industry is pre­doubled from 6 to 15 cents. The iglin, its top financial officer, to a cannot be affected by what subscribers. "This company isn't paring for the end of taxpayer rate for a typical large-circulation nt convention of business· happens to second-class since each testing any longer," said Coleman subsidies--scheduled for next magazine, such as Reader's s. Biglin conceded the class of mail is supposed to stand Hoyt, a vice president. "We are July--for that class of mail used to Digest, has gone from 2 cents per Posta · ervice in the past was "not­on its own fmancially. However, committed""'to alternative delivery send magazines and newspapers. copy to 10 "cents today a!!d is fully alert" to publishers' needs the phase-out in special subsidies on a permanent basis." 
Many publishers are experi­scheduled to go to 12.5 cents next but added: "We in the Postal for the mail bills of publishers has llle Wall Street Journal uses menting with other, cheaper ways year," Reader's Digest said in a Service have 'watched parcel post added to the second-class private delivery for about 15 of delivery, such as contracting recent article. go to another delivery system. We increases. percent of its 1.2 million daily with private firms. These com­The publishing industry has are determined not to let this Federal law prohibits competi­circulation. Dow Jones & Co., panies usually employ youths to looked to Congress to restore at happen in second ... class." tion with the Postal Service in publisher of the newspaper, fanout through neighborhoods least some of the subsidies, so far Biglin said the July 6 date makes first-class mailbut makes no such believes this could be expanded to hanging plastic bags containing the without success. Reader's Digest, second-class mail "a 'much more prohibition for other mail. Pub­as much as 75 percent by 1982, W. magazines on door knobs. which has a monthly circulation of intense subject" to the Postal lishers say they hope to save many Gilbert Faulk Jr., vice president. 
Since the private firms pay the more than 18 million, asked in its Service. Postmaster General millions of dollars and hold down said. deliverers lower wages that those article that readers write their of postal workers, the firms may be senators in support of such a bill. able to undersell the U.S. Mail in Th,e current experiments with many areas, leading publishers to alternate delivery include such turn away from the Postal Service. major publications as Time, 
The congressionally mandated Newsweek, Good Housekeeping subsidies that are due to end next and the Wall Street Journal. year have been in effect for decades on the theory that publica­The Postal Service is worried tions perform a public service by about this development, which providing news and education. The reminds officials of its loss of most subsidies have reduced second­of its fourth-class, or parcel, class mail rates for publishers by volume to private firlJIS. $1.2 billion since 1971 alone. These companies, led by United 
However, the phase-out of the Parcel Service, engage in what subsidies also has resulted in postal officials have termed second-class mail rates going up "cream skimming." That means even more steeply than first-class they take the best business and rates. leave the U.S. Mail with the part 
There have been increases in 1hey don't want. rates for all classes of mail in 1971, In the magazine delivery field, 
SMC holds recital 

A recitial by Edward Parmentier Edward Parmentier is a former in the chapel of Regina Hall will student of harpsichordists Albert open the 1978-79 Harpsichord Con­Fuller of the Juilliard School of cert Series. of the Saint Mary's Music and Gustav Leonhardt of the music department. The recital will Amsterdam Conservatory. He be held at 8 p.m. on Sunday. holds degrees in classics and 
Regina Hall is located directly musicology from Princeton Univer­west of the main parking area on sity and in humanities from Har­the campus. The public is cordially vard University. A specialist in invited to the concert, but seating the harpsichord music of Bach and is limited _and will be on a first the French clavecinistes, Parmen­
come, first-seated basis. , tier is also an organist who special­Parmentier will play his-recital izes in the performance of German 
on a new double harpsichord built and French baroque organ works by Steven W. Sorli, a Wisconsin on Tracker instruments·. · He is harpsichord maker. It is a copy of currently on the faculty of .the an historic Flemish instrument University of Michigan School of which is in the Smithsonian Institu­Music, where he teaches ·harpsi­

tion in Washington, D.C. chord, ensemble performance and The program will include works music history. 
Symphony string quartet plays ·· 
by Johann Sebastian Bach, George As a harpsichord soloist, Par­Frideric Handel, Francois Couperin mentier has presented reCitals in The ChiCago Symphony String Cerny on piano, is open to the Piano Quintet, which was first and Domenico Scarlatti as well as a New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia Quartet will make its tenth annual public at a cost of one dollar. performed at the Societe nationale 
recent composition, an epitaph on and Amsterdam. His recordings recital appearance 8:15p.m. Mon­The members ·of the quartet.• in 1880, is in grand and effusive the death of Stravinsky, by the include a solo album of Handel day in the Library Auditorium. The Victor Aitay and Edgar Muenzer, late romantic style. American composer Rudy Shackel­overtures and fugues, ~nd an recital, for which the quartet will be violin, Milton· Preves, viola; and The work provides the earliest ford. ensemble recording of songs by joined by Notre Dame music Frank Miller, . cello, are prominent example of Franck's celebra· 1 
Francis Hopkington. Department chairman William soloists, conductors, and symphony cyclic technique. According to 1 musicians in. Chicago. · Aitay, historian Edward Lockspeiser, Preves and Miller are principal its day the Quintet was consider players of their respective sections so emotionally overt that in .the Chicago Symphony. offended composers Camille Sail · Monday's program includes Saens and Franz Liszt. Haydn's Quartet in C Major, the The Hadyn quartet to t.e Quartet by paul Creston, and the performed is among a· group .f Quintet for piano and string quartet quartets written in the 1790 · by Cesar Franck. when Haydn was at the height of 
Franck, despite his German his mature powers. The quartets background, was a leading figure reflect the same dedpth and sonori­in the flowering of French chamber ty present in his London sympho­music in the late 19th century. His , nies from the same yearti. 
Society offers concert 
The International String Quartet wide and enthusiastic acclaim.

will perform Sunday at 4 p.in. in They recently returned from athe Concord Performing Arts Cen­summer tour , f South America ter, Elkhart. The concert is part of and will be toun .g Europe this fall. 
the Elkhart Symphony Society's Members of ·,he quartet include'Friendly Season'. the quartet will violinists Chihiro Kudo and Machie perform works of Mozart, Beetho­Kudo from japan, violinst James ven and Kodaly. 
VanValkenburg ofthe United tates, Tours of three continents and and cellist Lutz Rath from Ger­
victories in such prestegious 
many.
competitions as the Grand Prix All are graduates of Indiana(France), the East-West (New Univeristy at Bloomington, ad[ . re York), and the Munich (Germany) Quartet-in-Residence and mu5k. _..,
have brought this chamber music facu!ty members at Indiana p.,j.
ensemble a brilliant and meteoric \oersity at South Bend. For ti, . ; 
career. 
and information call the Elkhartlast year they debuted in Carne­Symphony office at 293-1087.
gie Recital ha11, ew York City to 


-----~--------------­
~-------------------------------­
,., .; )'IJ.,.r'il •···••• • .~~.. ~f
-: ... --~· ".,_,j..~~·i,..__........~--~-r
0 


Friday, October 6, 1978
18 the observer 

Mao's red book of quotations loses Chinese scholars' interest 
TOKYO (AP] • Chairman Mao Tse-tung's little red book, the book of quotations from the late Chinese leader often waved aloft by toes of · thousands of idolizing Chinese, may by knocked off China's best­seller list. 
China's leading newspaper says 
real students of Mao's thoughts 
now must study his whole philoso­
phy, not scattered quips, sentences 
and saying that could be inter­
preted any number of ways. 
There have' been hints from China that some ideas of the revered founder and chief philoso­pher of the People's Republic might be undergoing some re­evaluation. 
The book, traditionally bound in red and made to easily fit in a . pocket, contained Mao's ideas on subjects ranging form political philosophy to every-day life. 
An article in the state newpaper People's Daily, broadcast in part by the official Hsinhus news agency and monitored here, said Mao's quotations must be understood in context and in connection with certain times, places and condi­tions. 
The article hinted at a de­emphasis of the government's use of quotations taken from the book. 

It did not directly criticize Mao, nor did it directly mention his book of favorite sayings. But it did attack the late defense minister Lin Piao and the deposed "Gand of Four." 
The four, including Mao's widow Chiang Ching and three other top officiails, lost out to Premier Hua Kuo-feng in a struggle for power after Mao's death in September 1976. 
Chiange and ehr thee comrades were arrested in October 1976, after a reported coup attempt. They have been accused of a variety of offenses ranging from distorting Mao's ideas and econo­mic disruption to sabotaging the former chairman's medical treat­ment. 
Lin, accused of plotting to assas­sinate Mao and stage a coup, was killed in a plane crash in 1971, supposedly while trying to flee to the Soviet Union. 
The People's Daily article quoted Mao himself as saying, "If anyone claims that any comrade -for instance any comrade of the Ceo­tral Committee, or for that matter I 


SATURDAY OCT· 28 7:30pm NOTRE DAME A·C·C· All Seats Reserved $8.50 & $7.50 Tickets now on sale at A.C.C. Box Office 9am to 5pm 
and STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 

myself-completely understood the laws governing the Chinese revolu­tion, then he is a braggart and you must on no account believe him." 
The four, claiming to be the true interpreter of Mao, put political fidelity ahead of everything and denounced those who concentrated on economic advances. 
Hua, Mao's successor, has set a goal of complete modernization for China by the 2000, and has declared that doing good work in economics and production is part of one's political duty. • 
New Testament saves watchman 
CHARLESTON, W.VA. !API • Night watchman Robert hanson says he always carries a small New Testament in his shirt pocket because "it gives me strength." Police say that on Thursday tt saved his life. 
As Hanson was making his final rounds before dawn in the base­ment of a department store build­ing, an intruder shot him in the chest. City police patrolman Michael Walker said the .22-caliber pistol bullet struck the Bible and penetrated all but the back leather cover. 
Hanson, 36, was kn~cked down 
but suffered only a bruised chest, 
doctors said. 
He said the intruder, whom he encountered in the offices of the American cancer Society, ''was about 30 yards away." 
'"I don't know why he shot me," 
Hanson said.· "I was unarmed. I 
just.remember seeing a flash, like 
when you get into a fight and get 
hit hard." 
The intruder fled, and Hanson was treated and released at Char­leston General Hospital. Hanson is employed by a real estate company that owns the department store. After his release from the hospital, he went by the company office. 
"He showed me the bruise," said owner George Coyle. "He's a very remarkable, very quiet person. He's unreal. he never changed expression." 
Earlier, Hanson had sat on an examining table at the hospital, leafing through his Bible, which now has a small, neat hole slightly left of center. 
Hanson said he had nearly drowned in 1965 and was baptized shortly afterward. Since then, he said, "I've been in the habit of carrying a Bible." 
"It'll be a keepsake for me for a long, long time," he added. 


General rubbish and refuse clutter the side lawn of O'Shag as the construction continues on the Engineering Building. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
Art exhibit honors sister 
A new exhibition will poco Sunday at the Notre Dame Art 

Gallery offering  a  unique  visual  
experience.  
"Edward Weston's Gifts  to  his  

Sister" contains over 125 prints especially chosen by the photo­grapher at various stages of his career as gifts for his sister. 
"May," as Weston called her. raised -her younger brother from the age of five. after their mother's early death. She soon recognized her brother's talent. and her generous affection and cncoura­ment was a vital factor in the artist's development. 
Weston maintained a loving correspondence with his sister throughout her lifetime; he sent May his most accute impressions of the-world in this series of photo­graphs. 
The sum of his lifetime projects is available for public viewing: Prints from his extended visits to Mexico, as well as landscapes from his favorite refuge -Point Lobos, CA. 
Weston was one of the first photographers to document the simple beauties of the American scene, urban and rural. he travelled throughout the united States cultivating an awareness of the land. 
He was as delighted with the stee_l mills of Middleton, OH. as the scenic San Francisco harbor. and captures the respective symmetry of both in some of his most captivat(ng prints. 
Hunger Coalition to sponsor vegetarian meal 
The World Hunger Coalition will 
sponsor  a  vegetarian  meal  on  
Sunday from 5 to  7 p.m.  in  the  
basement of Lewis Hall.  

The purpose of the meal is to show people that there is an alternative to meat in a balanced diet. 
The main course of the meal will consist of broccoli with a light curry sauce. Apple cider, cheese, and a rice dish will also be served. 


GON~ SHOW 
AND 

HAPPY HOUR 
AT 

( GOOS~~ NEST) 
Friday Oct 6 3-6 pm 



------~---------~--­

th9 Obaii'Uf' 11• 
WSND-AM Sponsors 'Bite the Big Apple' 

... 

by Paul Stauder for an all-expense paid trip for two program director, has done a Club memberships, as well as New York City. -tremendous job in getting all of his movie passes. The New York 
Notre Dame students who listen ''The whole idea . behind the announcers to have a much more weekend will feature accomoda­
to WSND-AM will be given ·a contest is to get the students to professional sound.'' tions at the Saint Moritz }Jotel, two 
chance to "Bite the Big Apple" listen to our revamped AM sta­The contest will begin Monday, tickets to a Broadway play, and 
this semester. The station is tion," said Kate Bernard, WSND and will feature on-the-air $125 in spending money for the 
sponsoring a five-week giveaway station manager. "We're different giveaways of albums, McDonald's winning student. 
that will culminate with a arawin~ this year. Jim Dorgan, our AM cou ons, S rts Dlustrated Court "We'll have threewinners each 
day during the week, ... one each during our morning, afternoon and evening broadcast periods,'' Dorgan explained, ''with one win­ner daily on Saturday and Sun­day." 
The drawing for the New York trip will be held Nov. 21. with each daily winner eligible for the big prize. WSND station employees are not eligible for the daily prizes, but their roommates can call in and win under the rules of the contest. 
Here is the procedure that a student must follow to win: An official WSND door tag will be distributed to every room on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses tomorrow. For an oc­cupant to be eligible, the "tag must be on hung on his or her doorknob and left there for the duration of the contest. 
Through the rows of the volumes of knowledge, a lone student contemplates. [Photo by Mark 
Station. personnel will then ran­Ricca) 
domly select winners from the rooms displaying tags. !he 
Diner installs 
signal to aid 
police patrons 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. [AP] · The folks at Marge's Diner want to avoid police traffic jams at their humble eatery, so they've installed a signal to notify the men in blue when the coast is clear for them to drop in. 
Policemen, especially those on motorcycles, have been stopping by Marge's regularly for the past five years. But a department regulation forbids more than two umtormeo officers from congregat­ing at an eating establishment at one time. 
Recently, a police commander declared the regulation would be strictly enforced. 
So, diner owners Marge and Bob Goodman, who say the policemen "are not just our customers; they're our friends," came up with 
a method to  allevieate  the  heavy  
traffic.  
A  friend  in  the  electronics  

business built a makeshift, manual­ly switched signal, just big enough so its little green, yellow and red lights be seen from the street. 
Hanging in the window by the entrance, it flashes out its various signals; green for "go," meaning no uniformed officers are inside; yellow for "caution," one uniform is already at the counter; red for "stop," two officers: 
"The light was JUSt a joke," Marge said. "We thought it was kind of cute -being like a traffic signal and all." 
That policemen think it's pretty "cute," too. 
As one officer rides up and enters, he reaches up and switches the signal yellow. The riext one comes up and turns it to red, meaning anyone else will have to wait until one or both leave. 
Inside, the patrolmen feel free to plop their paperwork on the counter and fill out accident reports over a glass of iced tea. Thef i:ise the phone or restroom when they want. A police radio blares through a speaker mounted over­head. They say hello and strike up conversations with other customers, 
"A policman needs to be some­where where he can be comfor­table," says Bob, juggling food orders over hot grill just behind the counter of the narrow diner. He points out motorcycle policemen don't have desks on their bikes, but the work has to be done 
., $omewhere. 

WHAT'SAN NSACAREER? 
ItSdifferent thingstodifferentpeople 
Of course, most of the employees at the National Security Agency have certain things in common: they are civilians employed by the Department of Defense; they are engaged in projects vital to our country's communications security and intelligence production; and they all enjoy the benefits that accompany Federal employment. However, the differences betwe~n our career opportunities are just as interesting as their similarities-. For example ... 
TO THE ELECTRONIC ENGINEER (BS/MS): An NSA career means delving into unique projects which can span every phase of the R&D cycle. An engineer may design, develop, test and manage contracts on communications, recording, and information storage devices and systems whose capacities and speeds are still considered futuristic in most quarters. 
TO THE COMPUTER SCIENTIST (BS/MS): It means applying his or her knowledge in a wide range of sub-disciplines such as ~ystems design, systems pro­gramming, operating systems, computer applications analysis, and retrieval systems. 
TO THE MATHEMATICIAN (MS): A career means defining, formulating, and solving complex communi­cations-related problems. Statistical mathematics, matrix algepra and combinatorial analysis are just a few of the tools applied by the NSA mathematician. 
TO THE LINGUIST (BA/MA/D): A career consists of transcribing, translating, and perhaps conducting analysis and documentation projects. Slavic, Mid­Eastern, and Asian language majors can expect chal­lenging assignments and continuing self"development. 
Interested in learning more about the difference in an NSA career? Schedule an interview with us through your Student Placement Office today. 
U.S. Citizenship is required. 
students must listen to WSND-AM, 640 on the dial, to hear if their room is picked to receive a prize. Once their room number is read over the air, students can call the studio and claim their prize. _ 
"The contest is directed solely toward the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, just like our new format, and that's why we think we're the best station in the area for the students to listen to," Dorgan says. According to Ber­nard, WSND offers the students a balanced variety of top 100 music, solid gold songs, and an average of at least four requests each hour during regular programming. 
Dorgan believes this format offers the students what they want to hear. "We don't play the Bee Gees and Grease or the music that WRBR plays to appeal to the 'teeny-bopper' audience of South Bend. Our jocks are better than the ones at WAOR, and our format is better too," he said. 
"we.offer special programming that the others don't offer, like Studio J,Rock in Retrospect, Blast From .the Past, Radio Free Notre Dame, and all our sports program­ming,'' commented the · AM program director. 

-
~~-~ 
Friday, October 6, 1978
20 the observer 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldln& 
IBI'ERVI!W SCH!OOUD POR THE lll!!Jt OP OCTOB!It 16 
Intervi~l are for eenior• and graduate 1tudenta. Sign­eehedulee are in Room 213, Main Building. Intervl. ..., timel llllllt be Hgned ror tn per1011. The eign-up period at the Placement aureau vlll be Pr~ 8:00a.m. to 5:00 p.~ •• Monday through Friday. 
Oct. 16 !x-<:ell-o Corporation
;em-B in Acct. MBA. Harculee Incorporated 8 in ChE and Chem. Stenlord Unlverlity. Grad School of Bueineel B in all dieciplintl. 
Oct.16 17 Dow Corning Corporation 
Hon Tuel C.ncelled. General Electric Coapeny BM in A!, ME, Ch!, BE, Met, Ea.-th Sd. Arthur Young &CO!p4ny 8 in Acct. MBA or .ro vith Underarad. Ac<>t. Oegr­
oct, 17 General Electric Cftany Crttdlt Corwr•ti()l) 
Tuee. 8 in Econ, Pin, Mkt, M3t. · G!neral Telephone CO!!!p!nY of tndi4M B in E!, Procter & Gamble Ca:e:nv l't'od~t O.Velt!!!!!!!t BM in Chi!, MBA.•it liS in diz Or dl•, 
Oct. 17/.18 The T,.a!le Cooopanr Tuu/Wed BM in Mil, II ill Ch£ and CE, 
Oct. 18 u.s. Air l'Qfee. Qtticer Prggr:e
w;;r.--" BMD in all Enar dheipltnel, lVtb, Comp SCi. Atlentic &i,bf1¢1d Cgmpapx. BM inCh! 
Bfpkere !tfe pf PI• MQ!oca 
!1M in AL and IIA. 
&'•crrpnts Qat• SJ•tcma eprppr•tian 
BM in Bua. Ad., )ilatb, HEIOi C<JMP $cl, All .~ith 

intern~ in Data l't'oe•••ifla. (Chlqe in l'aqutr•~. aoenu ain.:e po.~bli~ation of )ilat\l.lah) · .· · Untv. or Illlnots..chicaao Cttda. Grad~ SChoolC!~,:..-•s,~,i:<::::::II:n 
B in 411 dhctpHnae. , · ., · JobpiiPo t. JobntOJl . . . . · l!ealtb Cal"• and l'bai:iiot.:•~tU.tlli; rtn, .Matll. Manufacturint~. Met.• !'l'aition• of l2 hu. of Acct. Chlc:aeo •t••~ :ejiti:~a·a,tdiJ\,t.ql~.' Ms;GltdiiJ IMita Qtmp 6e ,_.,,.. '·:··''''':(:::it:'\@11 a in Acct. MilA ,ith Ac~ri. llkad ol' Coi~et~ti~at'toa::•.<: 
lgc;IMl1 Iptprnttismtl . ....,,,::i:':'),',:,,,i:,:::{'/)::::(Jill II it\ ME, MlrtO,l!ll, SMPotr•od Corpo£!sl2n B in ME tru1 a. 
/ 


Led by Rycyna 

Marathon Club races on 
by Donna Teevan Rycyna said that ''the purpose ot
At the beginning of the school 

the race is to introduce people to
year, Nokes contacted Rycyna, 

running, and is, therefore, notEvery Wednesday afternoon at: whom he had met in the Boston restricted to dub members."
4:30 p.m. members of the Notre' Marathon, and they decided to Although plans have not yet been Dame Marathon Club meet in front form the dub. The first meeting 
finalized, Rycyna stated that theof the Administration Building was held August 30. 
race will probably start at Stepanbefore they begin their weekly Rycyna stated that although' Center and continue around St.
two-mile run around St. Joseph's Nokes and Featherstone were in· Joseph's and St. Mary's Lakes toand St. Mary's Lakes. strumental in starting the dub, the South Quad and finally end atAccording to club president thev have left most of the dub's the Administration Building. HeRobert Rycyna, "the club was 
bu;iness for the last two weeks in 

also said that it is likely thatorganizedfor anyone at Notre Dame 
the hands of the club officers. 

finishing times will be posted andor Saint Mary's, faculty member or According to Rycyna. approxi­that possibly ribbons will bestudent, who likes to jog or run." mately 150 people expressed in­awarded to the top finishers. 
This is the club's first year. terest in the club at the time of its Rycyna suggested the possibilityAccording to Rycyna the idea for 
founding. However, he added that 

that future races could be held atthe club was conceived this sum­
the Wednesday running sessions 

Saint Mary's because of "themer by two marathon runners-­only draw about 20 or 30 people. 
farms, paths, and good trails" inDonald Charles, "D.C.", Nokes, 
Rycyna estimated that the group, 

that area.
and Kenneth Featherstone. Nokes which is "mainly for non-varsity Rycyna, who became involved inis a Notre Dame admssions coun­
athletes," contains about ten 

track in high school, said that heselor who has run in many mara­
people who regularly run in mara­

enjoys Marathon Club runningthons including the Boston Mara­thons. 
rather than running with a cross·thon, and Kenneth Featherstone is 
The club's major upcoming pro­

country team because of the "indi­associate professor of architec­
ject is a three-mile race which the 

vidualistic" aspect of marathonnext running. 
NO Chess team to play 
The Notre Dame Chess Team will play its fifth annual match against Western Michigan at 2 p.m. on Sunday in the LaFortune Student Center basement. As the Michigan team is bringing 25 players, the chess team needs a number of additional boards. Call 234-9648 
additional information, or to register to play. 
Cross countrylnterha/1 meet to be held 
The Interhall Cross Country meet will be held next Tuesday, October 10, beginning at 4:30 on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Contes­tants should report by 4:15 to the 
The Mattoon Club anxiously waits for dirty hoove. [Photo by Mark middle of the fairway on the second Riccal hole for the two and one-half mile race. 
Taxidermist reflects on job 
COLUMBUS, OH [AP] • The In high school he sent away for a him. He won't mount pets. "We can't make them look the
8-foot Alaskan brown bear in Max correspondence course on taxi­Shipley's home is a little like a dermy. 
same as the owner remembers Sherman tank. It set his career. them," he said. Even if it doesn't move or make The first thing he mounted was a Shipley, a short man with noise, it's awfully hard to ignore. pidgeon. Since then the list of 
glasses, who speaks softly, That is, unless you've seen thl animals he has worked on might · chuckled as he told about one of the pouncing African lion in his gar make Noah envious. There have 
weirdest jobs he was asked to do. age. been hundreds of deer, penguins, A man called to say he had killed a Both beasts are beyond causinf mo11ntain sheep, lions, tigers, gaz-· bobcat and wanted it mounted. harm. Shipley is a taxidermist. elles, moose, bears and birds. 
When the hunter arrived, Shipley It's an art he admired as a·child. He doesn't take every job offered 
say that the man had "somebody's big Angora cat." But it's deer that really keep the wolves from his door. Mounting 
deer hunters' trophies is a major part of business. His son, Max Eugene, who works with him, has done all the deer and antelope for the last years, Shipley said. 
When he receives an animal, Shipley immediately ships the skin to Colorado to be tanned. 
"All we do is taxidermy, we don't do any tanning," he said. "That's an art in itself. An individual can't do both." 
When the skin is returned, Shipley soaks it to make it flexible and mounts it on a frame. The skin has to be sewn and molded to fit 
~arne. 
Shipley, 63, is himself a hunter and his prize trophy is "Old Moe," the Alaskan bear that adorns his den. 
"I've wanted a big bear since I was a little kid," he said. "It took me 60 years before I got it, but I got it." 
Shipley said he shot Moe on an Alaskan hunting trip. · Sometimes he hunts with a gun, other times with cameras. He uses pictures to guide him in his taxidermy work. 
Although he's been at it for 33 years, Shipley has no plans to retire , and there is still one trophy he! wants--a full elephant head. ' 
If he gets it, Ole Moe may have to move over. 

95-year-old still enjoys life 
By Susan PosdewaJte Associated Press W rlt_,r 
PORTLANI), ME [AP] • At age 95, Scott Nearing says he has "stumbled onto" the good life. 
"It's a situation where we're enjoying life," he says. "Maybe we ought to be sitting and rocking, , but we're not. We're enjoying life, and it's a life we can recommend to our friends." 
From 25 to 30 people a week troop up the dirt nad at Harbort:ide in Penobscot Bay where Helen and Scott Nearing--an·,ong the leaders of the back-to-the-land movement of the 1960s--live in an isolated stone hoJse they built themselves. 
Most of their visitors want to see the garden and greenhouse and ask if there is still land available at a reasonable price, Nearing said. 
Nearing tells the pioneers, mostly young people from affluent backrounds, that there is land, but it's getting scarcer each year. He also advises that if they want to homestead, "Don't do it alone. Find at least one person who agrees with you." 
Ayear ago, Nearing and Ht:len, 75, moved into their new, two-story stone house, without telephone or television. Last year, Nearing said, 

they took a ''sabbaticaL" He published a new book, and Helen worked on a cookbook requested by a publisher, which she calls an 
"anticookbook." An author, social critic and now a living example for young people attracted to "alternative" life styles, Nearing first gained prom­inence during World War I when~ his views sparked a dispute over academic freedom. Fired from one university for publishing anti-cap­italist sentiments, he was later fired from another university for opposition to the war, he says. Because of hi& writing and activities since then, he has been hailed by some as the "ultimate environmentalist,'' and grand­father of the ecology movement. Nearing conceded he is less agile than he was 20 years ago, and he likes to take a nap before lunch, but he wears no glasses, his blue eyes are clear, he stands straight and his voice is strong. Only his white hair and sun-browned hands and face show his age. 
Isaac Singer wins the 1978 Nobel Prize for literature 
Stockholm, Sweden [AP] • Isaac Bashevis Singer, the master Yid­dish story-teller whose lively tales of Jewish life are miniatures of a world of human feeling, was awarded the Nobel Prize for litera­ture yesterday. 
The 74-year-old Polish-born novelist and short-story writer, a naturalized American citizen, was cited by the Swedish Academy of Letters for his "impassioned nar­rative art which, with roots in a Polish-Jewish tradition, brings universal human conditions to life." 
·In awarding the $165,000 prize. the 18-member academy likened Singer's works of "apparently inexhaustible psychological fan­tasy" to those of the great Russian novelist Leo Tolstov. 
Singer, reached f'l Miami, where he was spe11ding the Jewish holy days, was more modest, telling a reporter, ''I'm grateful but at the same time I am sorry that writers greater than I did not get it." 
He said controversial American novelist Henry Miller deservt'!; the Nobel Prize "because of his fight for freedom of literature." Pre­announcement favorites here for the award included British novelist Graham Greene and Turkish author Yasar Kemal. 
Last year's winner was 78-year­cild Spanish poet Vicente Aleixandre, little known outside the Spanish-speaking world. Academy Secretary Lar& Gyllensten told reporters Thursday less-known writers are often chosen because "that is one of our functions, to put forward and spread the works of important authors. . . With the Nobel Prize for literature Isaac Bashevis Singer comes up above the surface." 

In America, however, where he emigrated in 1935, settling in New York, the prolific Singer has been widely read and admired for years. 
He has written a dozen novels, children's books, memoirs and numerous short stories, which frequently appear in the magazine The New Yorker. Almost all of his work was written in Yiddish," the language of central European 
Jews, and was later translated into English, sometimes by himself with the aid of others. 
Among his major works are a trilogy of novels published bet~een 1950 and 1969, "The Family Moskat," "The Manor" and "The 
' Estate," that form a broad family chronicle. His more recent books include "In My Father's Court" 1966, "A Friend ~f . ,Kafkjl'' 1970 .and ''A Crown of Feathers" 1973. His latest works, both published this year, are a novel, "Shosha" and a book of memoirs, ''A Young Man in Search of Love." His stories of Jewish life in Poland between the wars, a world later annihilated by the Nazi "Holocaust." display "a redeeming melancholy, sense of humor and a clear-sightedness free of illusion," an academy statement said. He is the second American citizen in three years to win the world's most prestigious literary award. The 1976 laureate was Canadian-born novelist Saul Bellow, also a Jew and an immi­grant to the United States. 
ND-SMC revises the shuttle bus schedule 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's shuttle schedule has been reviewed 

1t stops twice each trip. On class days two buses runand re-established. Copies of the 
simultaneously, with one beginn­
schedule have been distributed to 

ing the day at each campus. After
each student at Saint Mary's. The 

6 p.m. and all day Saturday and
schedule also has been posted in 

Sund:ty a 15-cent fare is required of 
each Notre Dame dorm, as well as 

shuttle passengers. H students
prominent locations on campus. 

repeatedly neglect to pay the fare it 
Additional copies may be obtained 

will be raised to cover the costs of
from the Student Government sec­

the bus service, or the shuttle
retary on the second floor of 

operations at night will be discon­
LaFortune. The schedule should be read tinued. from left to right, line by line. If no 

" Questions concerning the shuttle 
• schedule or suggestions for im­
time appears under a bus stop 

proving the service should be
designated on the schedule, the 

directed to Mariano Frost, Saint
shu 'e wir 10t make the stop on 

Mary's co-ex commissioner ( 4-1­
tha1 Jartict run. Students who 

5256); Bruce BoiVin, Notre Dame
are ~nsure · about the time of a 

co-ex commissioner (7688 or 1881),
pan1cular bus stop are advised to 
or Orrbudsman (67R3).
mP.et the bus at the Grotto where 
"I'm in good health, good spirits, I enjoy the s~nshitie, I have a fine garden and I'm in tune with the universe,'' he explained. 
He doesn't smoke or drink, and 
. has been a vegetarian for 5 years. But he attributes . hi!> excellent health to "moderation in all things, absence of anxiety, fresh liir, sunshine and fresh food." 
The Nearings grow 85 percent of the food they eat in their gardens and in the winter continue to eat fresh greens that they grow in their solar-heated greenhouse. 
They have simplified their needs and make enough .income from raising blueberries -their only cash crop -to pay taxes, buy clothing anc pay other living expenses. 
Royalties from their books go into a separate fund which they use to publish Nearing's political books. 
The Nearings' most popular book, "Living the Good Life," first published in the 1950s, was re­issued in the 1970s, and has since sold 140,000 copies, Nearing said. 
-The Nearings tunied to home­steading in the Depression when Nearing lost a job teaching. When 
Nearing was SO, they moved to southern Vermont where they pur­chased a farmstead and lived there until 1951 when Stratton Mountain developement brought them to Harborside. 

The idea behind moving to the country was to achieve a self-suffi­cient economy, in which he could accumulate no debts and be free of state control except insofar as he had to pay taxes, said Nearing, who describes himself as an economist. 
The other benefits of home­steading they discovered were somewhat of a bonus, Nearing said. 
"We had no idea when we started how much enjoyment you can get from one of these situa· tions," he said. 
Senior Fellow holds nominations 
Senior Fellow nominations which were scheduled to be held jon Thursday, Oct. 5, have been re­scheduled for Monday, Oct. 9. Ballot boxes for nominations will be located in LaFortune during lunch­time (12:00 -1:30), and in the dining halls during dinner. 
Book looks at football history 
An outbreak offootball nostalgia is likely to occur any autumn in your neighborhood tavern or family room. Symptoms are U!.Ually sentences that begin with "Re­member when.... " or "Did you ever hear \ ,e one ... " The remedy is an excertional memory or the latest book O'l football stories. 

Just in time for the 1978 epidem­ic is a new ~::ublication, ''Out of Bounds," an &necdotal history of Notre Dame fol)tball by Michael Bonifer and L.G. Weaver, both 1975 graduates ot the University. 
Their research tor the 160-page book was carried on at pregame rallies, post mortem">, funeral ser­vices and wherever they could hang on to the lapel of a former Saturday warrior. More than 100 pictures were gathered from dusty attics, and a rare find was an unopened Rockne briefcase fiHed with mem­orabilia. 
Notre Dame's athletic director, Edward W. Krause, tells the origin of his "Moose" nickname in a reminiscing foreword--it tame from a high school coach who thought he was big enough to block better. 
Also, Krause files a belated claim for three points behind his name in the Notre Dame record book--he and another player came down with the ball in the end zone and they gave all six points t~ the other player. 
Piper Publishing of Blue Earth, Minn., produced the book, selling in paper for $15. 

CI--I'IWWIICIUt(r~~TJDIIIIIUMQHTSMS(IWIO ~ 
SHOWTIME _..-·······.•. 
FRIDAY 7:00-9:30 ~ ~.Ji§i~
S_AT.SUN. 2:00-4:20-7:00-9:30 
Shapeup 
the~ 
student 
body ... 
Keep your shape in a shape to be studied. 
Turn to the fun of Sports Illustrated Court 
Clubs for special racquetball 'n recreation. 


Play vigorous singles or doubles on one of our climate-conditioned racquetball courts. If you're in the mood for a little competition, play in one of our fall leagues. 
Afterwards, refresh in a whirlpool or relax in a sauna... then meet your friends in the com­' fortable lounge area. We're open 'til midnight f every night! 
205 West Edison Road, Mishawaka Phone: 259-8585 
Sports Illustrated 
Sportsllluslriii!ClrSiS.IVIUM<"HanaalraaeM.ilrMotTi!ne.tnc 


SPECIAL STUDENT SAVINGS 
• 
$20 student membership entitles you to every line service for a year. 

• 
Additional savings are yours at $2/per student a_nytime courts are not r·eserved. 


ONE HOUR COURT-TIME FREE WITH THIS AD 
-

22 the observer Friday, October 6, 1978 
collegiate crossword 
,, 


ACROSS 
1 Chew no{sily 
6 Inundates 12 "Ben Hur" vehicle 14 French city 15 Toiler 16-point17 Mr. Wallach 18 Entertainers 20 Map abbreviation 21 National league 
team 23 Startle 24 Fibber 25 Stupefies 27 Weight units 
(abbr.) 28 Bell sounds 29 Ocean story? 
(2 wds.) 31 Dr. Salk 32 Beige (2 wds.) 34 Car or island 36 Sleigh parts39 Military student 40 Confer knighthood 
upon 41 Inscribed stone 


12 pack 
I 
Hamm's $2•75 

12 pack ················································•··•··············· Old Milwaukee 
Oktoberfest Calendar 
$2.99 12 pack 
Friday Oct 6 

-
announced :! ·~ Saturday Oct. 7 
;=:1 

8pm uor. Zhivago" :1 at Carrol Haii-SMC •,
!t 

' •••••••• ••••••••• ••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• ••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .... 
43 Taking repose 12 Mr. Kadiddlehopper,
44 Cowboy gear et al. 46 Actor Summerville 13 Submit tamely47 Equilibrium {abbr.) 14 Affirms 48 Figures out 19 Plains plant50 Miss Lupino 22 Broke, as a losing
51 Mouthlike opening streak 53 Cats 24 Small finches 
55 Terms of office 26 Commence 56 Comrades 28 Epsom­57 Cubic meters 30 Miss MacGraw 58 Potatoes 31 Actor -Hal~ 
33 Has an influence on DOWN (2 wds.) 
34 Long-running1 Ski lodges Broadway show 2 Frequenter 35 "Sweet -" 3 Spanish gold 37 Like serviced 4 Bright star brakes 5 John Donne's forte "38 Baseba 11 pitches 6 Blaze of light 39 English explorers 7 Telescope part 40 Fruit favorite 8 Canadian province 42 Gather together 
(abbr.) 44 Sneaker part9 Simple wind instru-45 Hebrew measures ment 48 -drill 10 !.D. collars 49 -happy (2 wds.) 52 Game show prize 11 Shows scorn 54 Printer's union 
loy Mk....l llellloelll 
Our Specialty: Oven Baked 
APPlE PANCAKES 
Extra large, using fresh apples \ and pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 

~~~~*~*****~~~m~~~~; 
THAT'S IT--I BLEW TIIAT TEST--MY LIFE /S OVER --I SHALL NOW EXPIRE" 


--------------,
BEER 1 
Rosary vigil SPECIALS!! i held at Miller Lite $3.39! abortion clinic 
3-6 Happy Hour & Gong Show The Best Beer PriceSI 
I to
at Gooses's Nest in Town 
1 A rosary vigil_ will be held every 
1 .Saturday mormng at 9 at the 
I Women's Pavilion Abortion Clinic I across from St. Joseph Hospital..1 Fr. Edward O'Connor will lead the I rosary this Saturday. 
II 
I 
1 
J 
1 sions and marketing will be held on 9-?? Biergarten & Dance I Monday, at 7 p.m. in the engineer-
ND & SMC 1 ing Auditorium.with Hot Springs I This seminar will provide stu-CheCkS Cashed I dents with information and an
12 midnite-winner of T.V. raffle : 1 I opportunity to familarize them-
Seminar held 
to introduce 
IBM strategy 
A seminar to introduce students IBM strategy, marketing mis­

31 E-Z Market I selves with 16~ befo~e the com­
· 

tpany placement mternews on Oct. open 7 days a week 19. .
Representatives from the US 31 North 1 ~arke!ing, programming a~d en­
-1 gmeenng departments will be at Auten Rd 1 present to answer questions.-• J All interested students are invit­
....__.,________.... sr ed to attend. 
McKee, Tarleton receive science grants 
Michael R. McKee_, chairman, and Sr. Rose Bernard Tarleton, both asociate professors in the department of sociology, anthro­pology and social work at Saint Mary's, have received National Science Foundation grants. 
The grants were awarded this week and will allow McKee and Tarleton to do an intensive study of how humans behave under ex­tremely stressful conditions such as natural disasters and hazards. 
Only 19 grants were awarded in this area of study and Saint Mary's was the only college to have two recipients from the same depart­ment. 
Sacred Heart area aid society to meet Thursday 
The Sacred Heart Parish confer­ence of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul is doing considerable work in the area through personal visits to needy private homes, and through visiting patients at Dor-a-Lin Nurs­ing Home on Notre Dame Ave. 
They also have been helping by 
providing reading materials,  can­ 
dies,  fruits,  potted  plants,  and  
spiritual aids to the elderly.  

Anyone interested in bec<>ming a member or wishing to help in some way is welcome to attend a meeting next Thursday at7:30 p.m. in Corby Hall with Fr. Charles McCarra­gher. Persons with questions .should contact Dolores W. Tantoco 
after 6 p.m. at 232-8882. 


, ......:"J"· .t '·'-,•,., f .. vt.·f•l ·1 .....-.~.-""t"• ·.l,_.,; r.. ·""~.·~·~ 
Friday, October~' 1978 the observer 
,-···••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• --... Dodgers down Phils 4-0 
NOTICES . Need 4 Tenn. tickets Call Beth, 4954 The only way to meet the infamous skippy \ • . ' -­tBaptist Student Union meetings to start SMC. and freddy is to be at the homecoming [contmued from page 24] ·game smce July 1 ·he was disabled First Meeting October 10, 7-8pm at th.e . , . dance Oct. 14. l!to become the first team in the with an injured shoulder -stole 
• Bulla Shed. Everyone welcome. e • Gay St~dents. of Notre Dame Gaye InformatiOn Wnte P.O. Box 206  Need 2 G.A. P1tt t1x. Please!! Call Kevm F. 3528. OVERSEAS JOBs-Summer/full time. Europe; S. America, Australia, Asia, etc.  . 1Har:f? Birthday, Sue Xoung. Love Lisa, Ma elyn, Kathy, Anme Mark Carney hangs out at Darby's.  • 10-y~ar. history of the playoffs to second on the first pitch to John. come back from an 0-2 deficit. In . The safe call by umpire Satch • the last three years, the Phillies :Davidson provoked a rhubarb as • 'h b · d · · ff ,;~ t h rt La B th• ave een 1mvo ve m 1slX p ayo ·•'+s s o stop rry owa and en  
• Free Ice Skating M-W-F Noon to 1­ All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses  • games at home and have yet to Ozark charged the umpire to protest  
• • Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate, • reasonable. Close to campus. Phone 272 7866 : -·  paid, sightseeing. Free info-write: International Job Center, Box 4490-14 Berkeley, CA 94704· Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work  Roomie-No longer a kid!?! Happy 20th. Love Ya...dg. Come perform at the Irish Follies this  • glve the sellout crowd a victory. the decision. But the Phillies, of ,• Right-hander Dick Ruthven, who course, lost the argument. won 13 games and lost six after John then grounded out but : coming to Philadelphia from Atlan­,Lopes singled. t? center, s~orin~  
. L V d . t• At! ten 1on ogan 1 1o un eers an m er­• ested Students-The Logan Center Farm • Trip is this Saturday from 9:00a.m. to • 3:q<J p.m.. Volunteers and ~ids alike will  at home--no e~erience necessary-­excellent pay r1'te Amerl·can Serv1'ce 8350 Park uine, Suite 127, Dallas, TX 75231 .  Tuesday--withalittlebitoflrishluck, youcould win b1·g bucks I . Nuts, No Nuts,  • ta last June 15, started for Mana-Yeager and gtvmg the DodgersD 0 k' Phill' d ·1 d t 3 0 · • g~r anny zar. s les an ea . o • . . elp1tched three h1tless, scoreless Bill Russell followed wtth a e innin~s b~fore the Dodgers caught single, which brought Ozark from  
enJOY seemg the farm ammals, plus a • hayride, picnic, and lots of sottball_and • other games. So come and bnng a1nende to Logan Center at 9:00 on Saturday!  1 need 5 GA Miami tickets. Not necessarily all together. Call John at 1991.  Boring Vanilla, and Mental: For making my 19 1/2 th such a"Splash", you deserve something4  e up w1th h1m. 'the dugout to lift Ruthven in favor e Lopes started the defending 1of Warren Brusstar. Reggie Smith • National Le hampio t th · lm d d t · ht t di• ~gue ~. . ns o . ~1r , e. ~ep o ng -cen er, en ng  
• Questions call Mike at 1371 or Sue • 4-1-4832. In case of rain, there will be  Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home football game. Call Mike 7838.  special \maybe a pie-in-the-eye during AnTosta ?)  • second straight v1ctory 1n the senes Jthe 1nmng. • with the Dodgers' first hit of the / In the seventh, Monday opened  
• regular Saturday ·Rec. _The _first Logan V_oluntee~ Toga Party IS th1s Saturday• mght at J1m Kotorac's House. Toga's aree not required, but a prize will be given out  Need two GA tickets to Tennessee. Call T 6718 ony .  Love, CAR B b H 19th w'II 1b t 1C~ieago~p~ur roomie. e ce e rae n  e game-a threeball, two-strike home with a single to right, and after • run that landed in the left-field IYeager fouled out John dropped a b II • ' · b ' -e u pen to gtve the Dodgers a 1-0 'sacrifice unt to S;dvance _the  
• for the best one! Rides will be provided.• Questions Call Mike 1371 or Sue  Want tix to Pitt, Tennessee. Call Steve 1478.  P.S. Keep trying', maybe before your 20th.  •·lead. ·runner. Lopes then rifled a triple• Los Angeles boosted its lead to 1into the right-field comer and it  
• ,4-1-4832.  • 3-0 in the. fifth, knocking out !was 4-0. ,  
e  I need 2 GA Pitt Tickets Tim-272-7674.  The Irish Follies are coming! Come show  • Ruthven, whose lifetime record The Phillies, meanwhile, had a  
• FOR RENT  off your talented ability and win some  • againstthe Dodgers soared to 1-11. :first-inning leadoff single by Mike  
• Apartment for Rent 2 Bedrooms. $150 pere month plus utilities. Call Denny Geyer  Need Ride to Columbus Ohio For Oct 6-8weekend. Will share & $. Call Lisa. SMC4715.  Irish greens! Mark R.  e Dusty Baker opened the fifth with Schmidt, who reached third on a • a double into the left-field comer, .pair of infield outs, but was left  
e 232-1833 or 289-7911.  For being such an excellent copy reader,  • and after Rick Monday bounced when first baseman Garvey made a  
e LOST &FOUND  Needed-GA tickets for Pitt. Game. Call  you deserve your very own personal.  •lout, Steve Yeager grounded a fine scoop of a wide throw by third  
• Found: Pair of glasses behind stepan • center. Photo-Gray w1'th Brown Frames. e Contact the Observer and identify them  3489, ask for Long John. , w d M' h GA cante -1 1c igan state ticket all 7009.  Congratulations!! c . N M11ongratu a 1ons urse 1 Hasana. ave a happy Capping.  elsingle through the shortstop hole to baseman Ron Cey after he fielded a1score Baker and .make it 2-0. hard grounder off the bat of Greg• e Yeager, starting only his eighth ;Luzinski, saving. a run.  
• and they're yours again. :PLEASE! If anyone picked up a book of • student football tix last saturday between the greenfield and engineering building,  111793 Need ride to Philly for break, ca ' NEED rides to Tuscon or as far west as possible. Mary 4-1-4702.  Mardi Rob, AI, Greg, Jeanine, and Jim: You're all Terrific people and I'm glad I know you. I'm looking forward to a great 4  : Hunter to 6ace Royalse I 1 ellcontinued from page 24)  
• Please call me. Margie 4-1-5183. • e Lost-1 St. Mary's Class ring last friday.  Desperately need 4 GA's Pitt-Call Debbie 5134.  years with you all here at N.D. Aguy from the buckeye state  • ballpark including a two-run homer D' · -1 ff · b £ F dd' p k lvlslon P ayo agamst Boston.5 4• Y • oot­re le ate · "Monday was a tough game on  
• Initials M.C.E. on Inside. Call Chris  :..  BIERGARDEN AND DANCE  • And how did Kansas City him, physically and mentally,"  
• 4-1-4122 or McCandless Desk.  Need ride home to Springfield, Mass. for  Friday, Oct. 6 9:00 to 1:00 Regina  • Manager Whitey Herzog explain said Lemon. "He can use the extra  
• Lost-Suede vest at Sr. Bar Friday night.• Fall wardrobe will be tacky without it. • Reward/no q~sstions!! K.B. 4-1-5425 •  break. Willing to share expenses. Call 7889. Desperately need GA tickets to Tenne­ssee Call Eric 1384.  Haii-SMC OCTOBERFEST HAPPY HOUR & GONG SHOW AT Goose's Nest Friday, Oct. 6 3-6 pm.  e the turnaround? Mostly, with a day."• shrug. Herzog was unconcerned over • "I've watched his ball dub for the change in the Yankee pitching • 3Yz years and I never know. what to rotation.  
• Help! I lost $40 plus between Badon and  • expect," confessed Herzog. "It doesn't matter," he said.  
• Dillon Halls on Friday Night. If you can  I need 4 GA and 2 student for Pitt. Call  Tennis and Raquetball Rackets restrung  • "Consistency seems to be a hard "We'll only face him once in the  
help me recover this, please call. There is• a reward Thanks-Jeff 1735. •  1051, 7-9 p.m. Need 4 GA tickets to Miami. Call Jeff  professionally at affordable price.J M 1 1469 oe on roy  e thing for us to achieve." · 't d 't tt senes, so 1 11rea y oesn rna er • For Friday's third _game,. the whether it's Friday or Saturday.  
• FOR SALE  8932.  Interested in Horseback Riding lnstruc­ • Yankees made a last-mmute p1tch­The key game is Friday. If we  
e For Sale: Color and Black and white • photos of Yes Concert and N.D. Football. e Call Phil8992. • • For Sale: 4 Neil Young Tickets. Good • Seats Call 1993.  Need 4 GA tickets for Pitt. Please call Paul 1002· Need 2 GA tickets to Pitt game for fiance's parents inside 30 yard lines. John at 1154 7-11 pm.  lions? Contact Melissa Cipkala, SMC 5409, 415 MC or Jo Hell, 683-4467. Rowing Club Bus for Hire 8917· Dear Me Just what are you "hooked" on?  • ing switch with Catfish Hunter ,don't beat Mr. Hunter then we'll • getting the ~ssignment inst~ad of 'have to face the best' pitcher in ·~5-game wmner Ron Gutdry. baseball Saturday.· • Left-bander P_aul Splittorff pitches Actually,Herzog has also shuffled•., .or Kansas ~~~Y· his pitching plans for the series, · • Lemon ongmally _anno~nced that ,originally, he had Splittorff  
• Have 1 GA Pitt ticket will trade for 1 GA • Miami and $5. Joe 1069_ •  Need 12 Miami GA tickets Call Bill 289-2046 .  Drugs Skip Livingston-If you can read this, you certainly not  • he would use Gmdry m Game penciled in for the opener. That • Three with just three days rest but changed when the pitcher's father • h d h' · d b ~ w d• c ange IS mm e ore . e nes­:died last week. "He went through  
• For Sale: One pair Harmon Kardon • speakers. Excellent price. Call John- Need GA Pitt tickets badly. Call Damian at 1033.  drunk enough last night. Happy 21st! -Your three ex's  • day's game. an awful lot with that and I wanted "After talking to Ron, I decided to give him extra time after he got  
• 1942. e Bar Beer Signs 4-sale • Contact Brian 3075 420 Fisher. •. Up to 3 Nel·i Young Padded Seats. Call • Mark 1863 · e Michigan State Tix for Sale 288_5858•  Desperately need ride east anywhere near Phila area for Oct. break. Will share all expenses and driving call Damian. 1033. Needed: ride to/from Kansas City over October Break. Will share expenses call chris 8583.  Mary Lynn, Mary Beth, and Jeannie-Many Many congrats! You'll all look so sexy in caps! Love Dave from Howard NICKLE On the occassion of your big 18 we shall ernestly endeavor to acquainlt you with  •·it was best to hold him back until back " the Royals' manager said. • Saturday," the yankee Manager sd 21-game winner Dennis • id .,sa · . . Leonard started the opener and • fiftThhadt will rt~tumthGtuldry ktod the was knocked out in the fifth inning. , 1 • ay r?u me . a wor e so Herzog said Leonard would be back 'well for h1m dur1!'-g the ~eg~lar for Saturday night's fourth game season. He ~ad p1tched. w1th JUst against Guidry with Wednesday's three d~ys off_m each ofh1s}ast two winner, Larry Gura, going Sunday  
• Two G.A. for Mich. State game. Call • 2882 before 11 :OO p.m.233_: 1970VW Convertible Extra sharp rebuild  Need oneGA Pitt Tix. Call1150. ~:R~~fn ~~~ets for Tenn. Game.  the greatest number of propnetors of such establishments that would propose a toast to you acheivement. Sincerely, The lllustriousW.H.A.A.T.  starts mcludmg .Monday s East night if needed. ..,.... • • • • • • • • • ...... ~Classified '• Rowing club  
• engine and transmission. 277-4082. • 1970 Fiat 1-24 sports convertible very • good condition throughout 277-4082. •• One adorable AKC Alaskan Malamute  Need GA tix to Pitt, Tennessee. Call Jerry, Herman 1398. CNeed GA tix to Pitt, Tennessee. all  Call Nickle-8008-and wish her a happy Birthday. Elaine Belle, Congrats on getting your caps. Yourteeth look much nicer now.  Ads • faces Michigan• Th u · · f -Hapgx Birthday Maribeth Horne from e mvers1ty o Notre1 Damee R · CI b ill c -thex-1 . · owmg u w compete ,or e  
• female puppy, eight weeks old. Phone  Steve, Joe 1478.  The silver dollar kid  • first time this season in a home  
• 272-5418. •• WANTED • Need 1 ticket to Young Concert on the  Need 4 adjacent GA tix to any home game. Call Mark 1478. PERSONALS  Libby & Chuck, k d · Ch baHave a super wee en m am na. You take care of my Libe, C~~~ha Anne  Meo, • ,'race against the University of I'm better at 96 proof reading! e Michigan. Both men and women Your neighbor •P.S. I wash my dishes with Loux! varsity and novice boats are sch­• eduled to race. Time set for tlie  
e floor. Call Marty 8872.  Happy Birthday Kathy Rourke- Scoop, •ifirst race to. begin is 12:30 _Sunday  
• Wanted: Three G.A. tickets for Miami  Love Peggy ---------­ To my three' lovelies; Wallflower, Wartnose, and Lucy (b-o-y-s), just a little  Enjoyed working with you last Thursday. • iat the Mishawaka Marma on Thanks for the goOd word you put In for • IJefferson road in Mishawaka.  
• game call 2254. • e Ride needed to Boston or N.Y. C. For e Oct. Break. Will share driving and gas. • Call Chris 8650. Can leave Oct. 19. • Need GA tickets for Pitt. Call Jerry 3795.e • I desperately need 2 G.A. Tickets for the e Pittsburgh game. Any information will • be most appreciated. Contact Linda  s to hairlessness. G. TIM JOYCE Rosie and I really love talking to you. We know you're not as bad as you sound! I h hHA! HA! We both want tows you t e best of luck in not coming home so earlythis weekend. We're rooting for ya! Trish  "Echo of my Love". · y l'ttl1 H bod our e orne Y What are those obscene noises 1've heard coming out of 403 Zahm? Sk' ippy,.Why is it that the Bosox only play 162 each year? the IBWMF knows! r1 Choke.!!  us. • Captain Apollo • Lt. Starbuck Irish vs. Chicago: 4th Floor Stanford­• NOT SORRY we missed your Toga party in lacrosseSaturday. You weren't worth the bother e of g I°ng. • Th N tr D La Cl b it. and CP. •: e 'tso eh artmef'-'l crosse u !opens I s o '" season on Okay, Pace, be like that. •Isunday, October 8, against their  
• 4-1-4389.  The IBWMF Club of Sorin Hall will be  This Is the LAST personal unless... • perennial rivals from the Chicago  
• HELP! Need 6 tickets for any home • game-call Rocco at 1479. • e Need 3 GA's and one student ticket for e Pitt. AHAB 8865. • e Desperately need ride to cincinnati this weekend. Will share expenses. Call • Mary Lou: 4-1-4996.  TOday is Kevin Wolahan's Birthday.Stop in at 115 St. Ed's or call 8783 and give him a kiss. TO POLLYKINS I not known to be afool, So I'll just stay right here at school, A trip to Cleveland would be nice, So you just better be worth the, price. Love John Baby  taking a 'road trip' to MSU this weekend. It's tim.e to GO WILD! d ?11 1d How do yo~_s8_eR-~~f~c-:~-~nce. Dear Kathy, (Ace) Hope your 2oth is as happy as mine was. Happy Birthday and Happy 2nd Six!!! Love Steve  MO* PAM* LISA* MOLLY* • Lacrosse Club. The A team match • will begin at 1 p.m., followed by a CONGRATS ON THE CAPPING THIS • WEEKEND!!! shortened B team match, since the 1LOVE JEANNINE AND TRISH. • Chicago team is unable to field a1.• complete second unit. KATHY KEPPLER* You're gonna make it no matter what you e do. • e Crew team  - 
• e Need ride to I.U./Bloomington, Oct. 6., e call JB 1161.  To 'neece Happy Birthday cutie. Love, Nancy and Carol  P.S. The explanation come later. Happy Birthday to you Pam Ford. Your  Mary Singer: • The animals from the zoo say, "Hippo • sponsors regattaBirdie Two Ewes!" Normal people would  
• Desperately need rl'de to Fort Lauderdale• for October Break. Will share expenses  , B k? FWant to go to Flonda over rea . or transportation call Auto Driveaway 674­ mystery admirers all over the ND campusare dying to see you cutie!  say "Happy Birthday to you!" .•. The Notre Dame Crew team will' Happy Birthday Brian D. Ward. •Isponsor a regatta on Sunday begin­ 
• John 289-9351.  9786.  Dianne, I can't think of a better day to  e ning at 1 p.m. Participating in this  

• . . . celebrate a Birthday. Have a Happy R e event will be the University of a Please help. Need 2 GA P1tt tickets call Wanted: One w1fe for successful young, 20th! I love You. ooney, . . eiMichigan Wayne State University.
Dave 1901. 1 up and coming executive type. Send D M K Warum Schmeck! em E1s dlr ohne Nusse? • . . • • 
• resumes to 326 Cavanaugh. · · · Votre nouyell~s e ·and the ~mvers1ty of Chicago. The
iI Desperately need 2 GA Pitt tickets. Will admiratns a'match will take place on the St. pay. Please call Susan 4-1-4509 or Pat Henrietta, Call .Brian Ward ~t. 11~ and make an P.S. DolakelstzpSHURN! (ComprJendez· Joseph's River, fifteen miles north­6784. Happy B·Day. All my love, Henry: abus1ve comment, 1t s h1s B-Day. vous?) .. least of campus.­
..•••••••••••••*•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••--••.._.•••••­
24 the observer Friday, October 6, 1978 
Five goals vs. Notre Dame 

... Welsh adds excitement to SMC field hockey 
by Anne Davey Sports Writer 
Last Saturday's victory by St. Mary's over Notre Dame( 5-2, held some additional excitement for the Belles. Not only was it the first victory of the season for SMC, it also marked the first time that five goals had been scored by one player in a game. 
Beth Welsh was this particular player. Nothing could go wiong for her -she was always at the right place at the right time. 
When asked about the game against Notre Dame she said, "that's the team we really wanted to beat." And beat them they did. "'That's the best our team has played," Welsh added. "We played together and everyone played really well. We were really up Saturday and I think that helped alot." 
Beth, a sophomore from Lam­bertville, New Jersey, first became interested in field hockey in the seventh grade. She joined the team in high school and earned · varsity letters her junior and senior years. The last year in high school, her team won the state champion­ship for small schools and finished third in the state for all schools. 

Whenl Beth first came to St. Mary's and asked about field hockey, she said that"no one could ever tell me anything about it. This came as kind of a surprise, since it is a big women's sports in my area." 
She finally got the word about the team. However, she could not play her freshman year. Late classes interfered with the prac­tices. She mentioned it was a little difficult getting into the swing of the game again this year, but said keeping up her play in the summer did a lot of good. 
Next year Beth will again be out of action. She will be going to Washington D.C. with the govern­ment program for a semester, and will miss the field hockey season. 
When asked if she'd play again her senior year she said, "Oh definite­ly!" 
Beth is very optimistic about the team. "I feel we have really improved since the first day of practice. We are now starting to play together as a team." Beth has mentioned that the coach, Ann Deitle, has' a lot to do with how they are playing. 
From Deitle's point of view, Beth is an experienced and positive player. She said Beth received some fantastic passes from her teammates and finished the job with some fantastic goals. Deitle added that all the girls do a great job on the field, and Beth "helps bring the team together." 
This being only the second year on varisty level, the field hockey team has much to look forward to. And with players such as Beth Welsh, the future of field hockey at St. Mary's looks bright. 

Belles gain split in volleyball; host tournament this Saturday 

Beth Welsh [center, ready to hit ball] set a Saint Mary's record with her five goals vs. Notre Dame Saturday. 
WSND sports lineup
by Beth Menke fare as well. Facing a very tough Sports Writer St. Francis team, St. Mary's lost the first game by a score of 15-2. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team With a strong spirit of persever­travelled to the College of St. ence, SMC came back in the second Francis in Illinois to compete\ in a game to win by a score of 15-10. In triangular meet with the host the third and deciding game, St. school and lllinois Benedictine Francis came back to defeat the College (lBC). The Belles split Belles 15-10. their two matches, defeating IBC, St. Mary's is coached this _year but falling to St. Francis. The split by Wilma Aitchison and Betty leaves SMC's season record at 5-1. Maroni. Before coming to St. 
Playing the best of three games Mary's these two women coached the Belles easily defeated IBC, at St. Jude's School, here in South 15-9, 15-19. Bend, and led their team to the city 
In the second match-up of the championship. Aitchison reports day, the St. Mary's/ team did not that she and Maroni are very happy 
Tony Pace\===:====::;:;:::::::=:=:===::::::::::::::=:::::=================================================::;:;:;::====:=:==================: 
The Pack is back? 

:=======================================:=============:===============================================::;::=NFL comments: 
The Green Bay Packers were once the best team in professio!lal footltall. They were coached by_ a legend na~ed _Lombardi. Lombardi's Packers did not do anythmg fancy, they just dtd what they did well. Execution was the key; do things simply, but do them well. 
Lombardi's Packers won the first two Super Bowls ever played.. Some began to wonder if anyone could beat them. But then Lombardi left Green Bay and the Packers have not been t?e s_ame ~ince. 
Phil Bengston and Notre Dame's own Dan Devme just dtd not do the job. Devine did have one good year, 1974, when Green Bay ~ent 10-4 and made the playoffs, but his other years we_re very frustratmg. The Packers were just treading water. After Devme left, or was forced to leave Bart Starr was hired to turn the team around. 
Fo; many people, Starr was the perfect choice. He was the quarterback of the Packer teams during their glory years. He had also been the quarterback coach during Devine's best year and he was credited with much of theat team's sucess. 
This is Starr's fourth year as head man in Packerland but his teams have been disappointing ---until this year. Well, maybe. The 1978 Packers are 4-1, but they have yet to be tested. The only quality team they have faced, the Oakland Raider~., d_estroye~ them. Their victories have come over the hapless DetrOit Lwns, twtce, the New Orleans Saints and the San Diego Chargers, who committed eleven turnovers in the game against the Packers. Hardly an impressive list of conques~s. 
The new offensive leaders of the Packers ate quarterback Davtd· Whitehurst and running back Terdell Middleton. Both players are in their second year and both have blossomed this season. 
The Green Bay defense is just as young. Lineman Mike Butler and Ezra Johnson. both top draft picks in 1977, lead the stop troops. Old pro Willie Buchanon leads the secondary. . . 
This Sunday the Packers take on the Chtcago Bears m a central division clash. Strange as it may seem the Packers are ahead of both Chicago and Minnesota in the central division. Are the Packers for real'? Stay tuned. the outcome ofSunday's game shoul_d go a long way toward showing the true quality of the new Packers. . . 
Grid Dust--Houston running backs Rob Carpenter, Tim Wtlson and Ronnie Coleman did a fine job of filling in for the injured Earl Campbell last Sunday in Cleveland. Bum Phillips must be pleased to have suoh depth at an injury prone position. . . How many games has. Bob Thomas cost the Bears? Thomas seems to lose every game Chtcago has against Minnesota, now he can start a new streak against Oakland. . . Homer· Rice takes over for Bill Johnson in Cincinnati. It may not 
-make any difference. The Bengals have never shown any spirit, they always fold in big games. This year th~y won't have an~ big games ... Don Coryell may be just what San D1ego needs to wm. The talent, especially offensive firepower, is th;ere. With Coryell's! help the Chargers should be able to turn it around. He cost the tea_!Il only a third round draft choice, which was paid to the St. Louis Cardinals to release Coryell from his contract there ... Washington's Mark ~osely is one of the best straight on placekickers in the game. He can h1t field goals of over SO yards consistently., He won Monday night's ga"?e for the Skins. . . How long will Joe fhomas back Pete McCulley tf the 49ers don't turn their season around? 
to be coaching at St. Mary's and find that it is much nicer to be coaching on the college level. they especially enjoy the fine volleyball facilities here at St. Mary's in the new Angela Athletic Center. 
This Saturday, St. Mary's will be hosting a six team invitational at Angela from 9 a.m. to approxi­mately 5 p.m. The participating schools will be Manchester College, Lake Michigan Junior College, South Western Michigan College, the College of St. Francis, Notre Dame, and SMC. Said Aitchison, "We are looking forward to the invitational and particularly, the chance to play St. Francis again. We'll really try to get them this time." 
Besides the invitational, St. Mary's is eagerly looking towards the district championships on November 4. ·••our chances for winning the district are excellent this year," stated an enthusiastic Aitchison. "We are a scrappy team, we have a lot of depth with our reserves, and should do well." 

A big sports weekend is on tap 
at WSND, 640 on your AM dial. 
Here's a rundown on the programs 
to be featured this weekend: 
SUNDAYSATURDAY 
12:15 pm Notre D~me _Football6:00 pm Campus Corner with a from Spartan Stadmm m East special guest. Lansing. Paul Stauder and Frank 
LaGrotta bring you the play-by-6:30 pm Pro Football Report with play. Tony Pace and Greg Meredith 
6:00 pm Sports Extra and College 9:00 pm Speaking of Sports with 
Football Scoreboard. Paul Stauder, Lou Severino, Fran 
LaGrotta, and Brian Beglane.
11 :00 pm The Football ~ighlight Show featuring all the action from the N.D.-M.S.U. game. 

SMC tennis team defeats Butler 
by Anne Davey Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team 
picked up an impressive victory 
yesterday, as they defeated Butler 
University, 7-2, in a match held at 
the SMC courts. 
Cindy Schuster was victorious for Saint.Mary'sin number one singles 
play, as she defeated Lynn Schrei­
ber in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4. The 
number two player for the Belles, 
Anne Daniels, also won as she 
downed Debbie Pollack in a close 
match, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4. 
Also victorious in singles play 
were Karen Smith, who defeated 
Nancy Alcott, 6-2, 6-2. in number 
fo~r singles, and Carmel Maenza, 
who won the number six singles 
match, 6-4, 6-4, over Mary Ellen 
Garber. • 
Butler won in number three 
singles. as Kim Stahl defeated Mo 
O'Brien, 6-3, 6-3, and in number 
five singles, where Pat Cartwright 
downed Terri Bracken, 3-6, 6-4, 
7-5. 
The Belles dominated the doubles play, as they won all three matches. Schuster and Daniels defeated Stahl and Schreiber, 10-4, in number one doubles, the num­ber two team of O'Brien and Smith edged Reynolds and Alcott, 7-6, and number three players Bracken and Mary Riehl won 7-6 over Lindow and Sterling. 
Karen Grummell, the team's new co-coach along with Kathy Cordes, was excited and very pleased with the team's play yesterday. She is looking forward this weekend. They will be at St. to the rest of the season and says Joseph College with Earlham Col­the girls are all playing well. When lege on Saturday, and will host asked about coaching her new Ind./Purdue University at Fort team, she said, "I'm thrilled to Wayne here in South Bend on death!" Sunday. The home match will 

St. Mary's will have two matches begin at 1:00 p.m. 
Baseball Playoffs  
John stifles Phils Hunter to go PHILADELPHIA AP Captain f y k t d Davey Lopes, who said his job is to Or an S 0 ay motivate, led by example Thursday NEW YORK [API • Before they with three hits -including a hOme arrived for the first two games of run and a triple -and three runs their American League Champion­batted in as the Los Angeles ship Series in Kansas City, the New Dogers beat the Philadelphia Phil-York Yankees wanted nothing more lies 4-0 and took a 2-0 lead in the than a split at Royals Stadium. best-of-five National League But after winning the opener Championship Series. easily on a combined two-hitter by While Lopes keyed the offense, rookie Jim Beattie and seldom­Dodgers left-hander Tommy John used Ken Clay, the visitors started limited the Phillies to four hits, thinking sweep. And, like young­striking out four and walking two. sters reaching into a cookie jar, Only four balls were hit over the they got their wrists slapped in a heads of the infielders as the 10-4 Kansas City romp Wednes­33-year old John's sinkerball kept day. the Phillies hammering into the Was Yankee Manager Bob ground. Lemon satisfied with the split on The series now moves : to Los the road? Angeles for as many as needed of 1 "I would've been if we had lost three scheduled weekend games. the first game," said Lemon. "But In the first two games, Lopes -the !after winning the first, well, then 32-year-old second baseman -has :you want the second one, too." six hits in nine at-bats; five RBI, : But the Royals, who looked two homers, a double and triple. absolutely awful in the opener, The;; Phillies headed for the West turned awesome in Game Two, Coast needing a three-game sweep scattering 16 hits around their [continued on page 23J...,____r,_co_n_t_ln_u_e_d_o_n_p...ag~e-2_3...J•  






