
In unanimous decision 
HPC opposes housing lottery plan 

by John McGrath Staff Reporter 

The Hall )Presidents Council (HPC) voiced its opposition to the proposed housing lottery and cur­rent overcrowding last night at a meeting at Dillon Hall. 
In a motion jointly sponsored by Sorin Hall President AI Mesa and HPC Campus Life Council (CLC) representative and St. Edward's Hall President Bill Vida, the HPC unanimously accepted a proposal declaring the "HPC as being diametrically opposed to any type of off-campus lottery, as well as to overcrowding as a solution to the housing shortage situation." 
Commenting on the HPC's action, Chuck DelGrande, chait­man, said, "The administration will not realistically act until they feel that the entire student body feels that a lottery would be unacceptable. Only then will t.'ley consider the other alternatives." 
Student Body President Andy McKenna and Student Body Vice­President Mike Roohan, who were both present at the meeting, noted that the motion voted on by the HPC was identicill to Student Government's position on the subject. 
''The real situation here is the question of whether the University should take action to solve i\ (the housing problem), or should the 
by John McDermott 

Universtiy President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh spoke Ia$ nie:ht about abortion and the IDJltly 
complex issues that surround;. it betore a packed crowd in the LaFortune Little Theater. 
Sponsored by ND-SMC Right to Life, Hesburgh stressed that, as students, one of the most important things to do is "get educated." 
"This is the time when you get informed and educated to be able to speak up when the time comes so that you can do something about it," he said. 
He pointed out that one must really understa11d the abortion issue. "This situation is full of misinformation, It's full of myth. Who's getting abortions? Sixty n~rcent of those having abortions: 
1) aren't married, 2) are teenagers, 
3) are minorities, 4) are poor;" nesburgh said. 
He added that most people don't realize what the queston is all about. "As students, " he said. "you ought to come out of here informed about what abortion is really about." . . .· .. ... 
Hesburgh said thaf..we livi:tin a free country and in a free country sometimes things go wrong." Say­ing that the Supreme Court made a bad decision regarding the legali­students put up with increasing overcrowding," Roohan said. 
"This year is no different than any other year in that you have to play with statistic outlook 2ames. In the past years, the University absorbed any problem by over­crowding," McKenna commented, adding, "I think that the excess, whatever it is, can be dealt with without the lottery." 
Roohan added, "You're not deal­ing with a problem that the HPC caused, you're dealing with a problem that the University should solve." 
Prior to taking action concerning the housing situation, the HPC heard an independent report on the status of on-campus housing by John Dillane, a resident of Keenan Hall. 
Stating that his purpose in presenting the report was to force the Administration to make a formal projection of the shortage of beds next year, Dillane told the group, "Based upon these statis­tics and trends (presented in his report), I project that the total population on campus next ye~r will be 5,609, a whopping seven over this year's figure." . 
Dillane based his figures upon an analysis of on-campus housing needs for the academic years 1975-76 through the present year. 
In the report, Dillane contended that the rise in the number ·of seniors living on campus is only a 
zation of abortion, Hesburgh added that "the fact that the Supreme Court says you can do something doesn't mean it's moral to do it. That's just their opinion, and they happen to be wrong." 
Hesburgh stated that, if he were running the Right to Life cam­paign, he'd like to "get all Catho­lics to agree that abortion is wrong, and, da111n it, we're not going to do 
it.,. " He added tha,t many Catholics aren't opposed tp abortion, com­menting; "This is where we ought to start, "instead ,of honking the horns and sending roses to con­gressmen. We've got a big problem in our OW'n'house, our own family:• Hesburgh streSsed that there are no easy answers to the abortion problem •.. Although believing that life begins at con(!eption, Hesburgh said that ''no one but God can tell you when human life begins.'' Concerning th~<qbestion of birth control, Hesburgh said that many of the means available are either unaesthetic, ineffective or dange­rous. "What we. need is a better. more effective, wider variety of means of birth control that are acceptable to every culture, every 
religion or at least some that are acceptable across the board," he [continued on page 2] 


reflection of the tendencies of the 
class of 1979. He pointed out ifthe 
class of 1980 continues to follow.its 
tendencies, the trend of increasing 
numbers of seniors living on-· 
campus will be reversed. 
However, Roohan was quick to 
point out several factors which might make Dillane's proposal inaccurate, including the number of students returning from foreign · study programs and the inflation in past figures considered in the report by the number of transfer students who, under former policy, were permitted to live on campus. 
"The trend's (mote people living 
on campus) been increasing for 
years--that's the Qroblem," 
I<oonan said, adding, "Neither 
John (Dillane) nor myself. have 
enough experience in statistics to 
accurately project th~ number of 
beds we'll be short next year, but 
Mr. Price (Edmund Price, director 
In San Francisco murders 
SAN FRANCISCO [AP] -Former Supervisor Dan White was charged yesterday with the murders of Mayor George Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk under a law that calls for the death penalty. 
District Attorney Joseph Freitas said at a news conference that the two-count complaint, ftled in Muni­cipal Court, cites murder under ''special circumstances'' --a crime covered by the death penalty in California. 
He said that White, 32, would be arraigned today. 
Freitas charged that White killed Moscone and Milk, the city's first avowed homosexual supervisor, "in retaliation for and to prevent the performance of the official duties" of the two officials. 
The two were shot to death before noon Monday--Moscone in a conference room of his office and Milk in White's own office. White surrendered to police 45 minutes later. 
In addition to the two counts of murder, White was charged with possessing and using a firearm, a .38-caliber revolver, during the assassinations. 
A colleague who visited White in prison said yesterday that White· was "a casualty of pressure" brought on by work, money prob­lems and the birth of a baby. 
"I think everybody has a break­ing point," said Supervisor Lee Dolson, who visited a weeping White in his cell Monday night. White, he said, ''was just a normal, devoted young father." 
The bodies of Moscone and Milk will lie in state today at City Hall. Moscone will be buried tomorrow, and Milk is to be cremated Friday night. 
The assassinations occurred a half-hour before Moscone was to name a successor to White on the Board of Supervisors. 
On Sunday night, KCBS radio reporter Barbara Taylor, who had learned White would not be reap­pointed, called him for his reaction. 
"He  seemed  taken  aback,"  she  
said.  "He hung up on me."  
White  had  resigned  from  the  

of housing) said it would be around 100 to 150 beds." 
Dillon Hall President Marty Paulson said, "It's not a problem that could not be perceived. I realize that the University can't just jump in and do all kinds of construction work only to have the trend (towards more on-campus resirlPnts) reverse, but we can now see that this is a serious long-term problem." 
In other business at last night's meeting, the budget committee presented its proposal for allotting the $9,500 that has been allocated by the HPC. Out of the total amount, $100 is to be used to replace the Rockne Trophy which was stolen. The remaining funds hve been distributed to all of the halls based upon each dorm's financial situation, its ability to generate funds and each applica­tion's merit. The budget was 
Alumni 435 Badin 450 Breen Phillips 458 Carroll 508 Cavanaugh 483 Dillon 630 Farley · 458 Fisher 500 Flanner 200 Grace 383 Holy Cross 431 Howard 233 Keenan 300 Lewis 225 Lyons 483 Morrissey 636 Pangborn 683 St. Edward's 450 Sorin 255 Stanford 433 Walsh 408 Zahm 358 

board on Nov. 10, saying he could not support his wife, Mary Ann, and his 4-month-old son, Andrew, on the $9,600 supervisor's salary plus the money he made from a fried potato concession on Fisher­man's Wharf. 
But after securing a $10,000 loan from his 16 brothers and sisters, White asked Moscone to reappoint him to the board. 
Last Friday, however, suspecting he would not get his job back, he grimly told reporters, "The gloves are off." 
"He went through a few months of very hard work, financial prob­lems and a new baby," board president and now acting Mayor Dianne Feinstein said of White. "It had triggered a sense of hopelessness.'' 

Courts charge Dan White 
flit ~ 
~ :t 
\ 
\ 


Amnesty International and the Hunger Coalition are sponsoring a sale .of Third World crafts in LaFortune. [Photo by Mark Muench] 


the observer __ _ Wednesday, November 29, 1978 
,_News Briefs_____ 
J:==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===:===: w0 rld 
Vikings discover America?? 
LONDON [AP]-An old coin found in Maine may confirm the theory that the Vikings discovered North America begore Columbus, says a British expert. Seaby's, the London coin and medal dealers, announced their conclusion yesterday in their monthly "Coin and Medal Bulletin." Peter Seaby, chairman of the firm, said he studied photographs of the coin and says it is Norse and probably minted between 106S snf 1080. He said it is comparable with coins made for Olaf Kyrre, son of Norwegian King Harold Hardrada, who was killed at the battle of Stamford Bridge in England in 1066. 
t-======================~=== National 
Space probes observe Venus 
WASHINGTON [API·A fleet of six American space probes, with two Sm·iet craft close behind, is nearing Venus for the most ambitious study ever of the cloud-encapsuled planet. Scientists and space agency officials said yesterday that the spacecraft are less than five million miles away from Venus and working well, except for one experiment on one probe. "What transpires in the next few weeks will be very important because it is the first of our global surbeys of a planet,'' Noel W. Hinners of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration told a briefing. "If this mission is successful...then. I would anticipate a similar mission to Mars and perhaps other planets,·· Hinners added. 
Dollar dips as prices soar 
WASHINGTON [AP]-A dollar will buy only half as much as it did eleven years ago, the government said yesterday 11-s ti released figures showing a new surge in food prices last month. President Carter's chief inflation adviser called the new figures "God-awful." Alfred _Kahn, chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, also satd the October price increases show inflation is now running ncar_ ~0 p~rcent ~ year, nearly 2 percent higher than any admmtstratton offictal has yet admitted. 
Weather 
Cloudy and windy today with a SO percent chance of rain or snow by late afternoon. Highs in the upper 30s to the low 40s. Windy with a 60 percent chance of snow tonight. L:>ws in the mid to upper 20s. Cloudy and cold tomorrow with snow flurries with highs in the low to mid 30s. 
fi-On Campus Today_~ 
10 am-2 pm sale, "st. francis shoppe sale of third world 
12:15 pm 
3:25 pm 
3:30pm 
5:15pm 
6 pm-11 pm 
6:30 pm 7 pm 
7:30pm seminar, msgr. geno c. baroni will speak, open to faculty and grad students, spon. by coli. bus. adm., 121 hayes healy 
american scene lecture series, "environmental hazards to, the unborn child; lessons from thE laboratory, bessy carlton, dept. of nutrition and toxicology, mit, carroll hall, smc · 
poetry readings, max westler, stapleton lounge 
8:15pm 
recital, deborah davis, cello, spon. by music dept., lib. aud. 
handicrafts,"  spon.  by amnesty international  and  
hunger coalition, Iafortune center  
seminar,  "carcinogenesis by dietary nitrite,"  dr.  

tomoski assano, nd, spon. by dept. of microbiology, 278 galvin aud. 
graduate seminar, "tgowards more efficient distilla­tion," prof. richard shrnah, northwestern u., spon. by chem. engr., 269 chem. engr. 
cardinal o'hara mem. lecture, msgr. geno c. baroni, asst. secy for neighborhoods, us dept. of housing and urban devpt. will speak, spon. by coli. bs ad., 
mem. lib. aud. 
lecture, dr. john martin, assistant secretary of air force-research development and logistics, and 1950 nd rna recipient, discussing current activities, engr. aud. 
faster's mass, spon. by world hunger coalition, walsh chapel 
sale, third world handicrafts; lib. concourse 
sailing club meeting, 204 o'shag 
film, "the gospel of st. matthew," little theatre, $1 
I U.S~3?N~!~at~~~d~~~~ 
mALL 
.......................rt.....* ................... 
Hesburgh· speaks out on abortion 
[continued from page 1] noted. When asked why he hadn't taken some kind of leadership role in the abortion issue, Hesburgh said that he has spoken out against abortion at least ISO times. He pointed out that his latest book has a very strong statement against abortion. According to Hesburgh, he had just earned $8,000 himself to pay for a conference on abortion to be held at 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Margie Brassil Asst. Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Layout Person: Pam Degnan Sports Layout: Lefty, The 
Steeler, Journal Typists: Kim Convey, Nancy Morris, Mary Chustak, Katie Brehl Early Morning Typist: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Marcia Kovas Copy Reader: Mare Ulicny, Reed King Ad Layout: Flo O'Connell, Sue Johnston Photographer: Mark Muench 
j 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during ex.m and vaa~tlon periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per ye•r ($ 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Prell. All repro­duction rights era reaerved. 
The 

Windjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RELAXING ATMOSPHERE FREE HAIR ANALYSIS 
RK RETAIL CENTER 
1637 LW W So. Bend
~ ... 232-6622 
~ 

Appt..only
................................... 
: Notte Dclme -St. maty Students Get 10% OFF II 
• 
: Levi Jeans 

Lady Levi : Sttalght Legs 
Super Straights : Bell Bottoms Corduroy : Levi Corduroy Fashion Tops
•


: Be a Levi man 8e a Levi Woman
•: The ONLY PIQce Fot JeQns 
Notre Dame next October. 
"I don't get up every morning and stand up on the dome and say I'm against abortion. I don't think I should. But whenever it's reason­able and obvious and a chance to give some leadership I do, •• Hesburgh said. 
Hesburgh said that marches and other tactics which have been used by the Right to Life people in ·the past are a waste of time. "I tfi~Qk we're going to have to have som\ 
very tough, hard, grinding confe-'·  are  ever  going  to  get  rid  of  
rences destroying the myths in this  abortion,  but  at  least  we  can  
area  and establishing the facts.  restrict it."  

AI, WHC hold sales 
The St. Frauds Shoppe, a Third World handicrafts marketing pro­gram, will be holding a sale this week and next. 
The Shoppe is a not-for-profit organization working to alleviate poverty in forty Third World coun­tries. The purpose of the program is to eliminate the exploitive mid­dleman so that the producers of the handicrafts can receive a fair price for their goods. 
a didn't 
THE DOUBLE TAKE JOGGING TRIPLE TAKE TENNIS SUIT 

T-SHIRT 50/50 XL
f .~ jss.9s
SOLID COLORS 
3:.34 I38~40 : 42-44 46 
THREE STRIPE 100"/o STRETCH 
I s: IS6.95 
: 28·30 132~34 136_1;8 140~2
NYLON SHORTS 
P.0.8ox 30722
COLORS-RED, SLUE, KELLY GREEN 
Ral•lgh, N.C.
ndldn't
SAVE-BUY COmPLETE SUIT ONLY Jl1.95 
27612
!Postpaid, Allow 2·<4 Weeh (Dt' [)ebvcry) 
Skystream Airlines Announces the 
FARE-DEAL 
stand by rates as low as 
$300 
to Chicago Regular Reserve Fee '18.00 

217-5313 1-800-552-2580 (IND.) 
The pre-Christmas sale will be held at Notre Dame this week in LaFortune from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and at the Memorial Library from 6 to 11 p.m. At Saint Mary's, the sale will be held next week in LeMans Hall from 10 a.m. to S p.m. daily in conjunction with the Saint Mary's Christmas Bazaar. 
Amnesty International and World Hunger Coalition are co­sponsoring the sale. 
We have a very tough fight ahead of us, and it's not going to be solved by going on marches. But that's my style," he stressed. 
Hesburgh concluded the discus­sion by saying, "What we have to do is be so deeply convinced that abortion is wrong and know the facts so well that we can persuade others to our view. We have many intellectual, moral and spiritual weapons on our side. We have to attack their minds. I don't think we 
\. 

Wednesday, November 29, 1978 
the observer 


by Tim Creagan According to Van Wolvlear, an 
overflow of under 150 or so 

Vice-President of Student Affairs students could probably be acco­
Fr. John Van Wolvlear spoke to modated on campus, but if any 
approximately 40 people in the more, some would have to move 
Grace Hall Pit last night. At the off-campus. 
meeting Van Wolvlear answered However, early indications seem 
questions regarding the proposed to show that this year's junior class 
housing lottery for next year's may not be following the trend set 
senior class and reiterated his during the last three years. As 
previous position on parietals and a evidence of this, Van Wolvlear 
Student Union (SU) sponsored cited the fact that for this school 
record store. year, there are 57 junior women 
Van Wolvlear stated that there is living off campus, as compared to 
an anticipated housing shortage for only 55 senior women. 
next year, based on trends esta­But Van Wolvlear emphasized 
blished from previous years. that the main problem at this point 
Campus to provide hous;ng ;n~!!.f!!!!!.!Lt?..!'••• 
by Pat Mangan encouraged them to pay attention As the confusion over the hous-to the Off-Campus Newsletter pub­ing shortage intensifies, the stu-lished by Student Government. dent government Off-Campus Fitzpatrick also exhorted those Commission, together with the who do end up off campus to Office of Off-Campus Housing, is interact with their neighbors and in the process of providing practical singled out interaction with com-information to students who are munity groups as vital. planning to mov(' off campus. Other areas of interest, such as At a meeting sponsored by the security and 'insurance, were dis-two offices, approximately 70 stu-cussed. Hornbeck, an insurance dents ·gathered last Monday night agent from S;,uth Bend, provided in the LaFortune lounge t•J explore the information in these areas. the possibilities of off-campus liv-Concerning security, Hornbeck ing. John Fitzpatrick, off-campus suggested these precautions: bolt coordinator, Dan D'Antonio of locks should be installed and when 
off-campus housing, Kevin Roch-you leave your house you should ford of Legal Aid Services and turn on some lights and leave your Michael Hornbeck of Hornbeck radio on. Insurance Company were present o Hornbeck said that the installa­
offer relevant information and to tion of smoke alarms can save up to answer students' questions. 10 percent on the cost of insurance. 
Fitzpatrick pointed out, "Sooner He also pointed out that the or later some of you are going to minimum protection that can be leave the campus, so we are here to purchased is $5,000, which would 
make the transition a smoother cost approximately $40 to $45. one." Hornbeck said that items worth 
D'Antonio encouraged all stu­more than $500 needed to be listed dents who are considering moving separately, which would result in off campus to consult the Office of separate premiums. The prem­
Off-Campus Housing in Room 311 iums on these items must be paid ofthe Administration Building. He at a rate of $.90 per $100 of stated, "Contrary to what people coverage. 
have been saying, there is ade­Fitzpatrick suggested that aver­quate housing off.campus.'' age monthly expenses for off-cam­
"We have lists of available pus students adds up to $170. He houses, boarding rooms and apart­[continued on page 6] ment complexe~ in the South Bend area," D'Antonio said. He also assured the students that all list­ings are first inspected and can, therefore, be trusted. 
D'Antonio also encouraged stu­dents to obtain off-campus housing 
ROCCO'S through his office because that would give him "more clout" with 
BARBERS 

the landlords and he could then offer even more help. While D'Antonio explained the 
hairstylists 

search-and-selection process, Fitz­patrick pointed out the Student 
531 N. Michigan

Government services avall.."hl.. to off-campus students. He empha-. 
233-4957 

sized the need for communication
• 
S•niarBar 
rum and cak• special Taniraht-..sa 


SHAKEY'S 
SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS 
5 -7:30 MON -TUES -WED 
Pizza-~hicken· 
Spaghetti-Salad All You Can Eat 
SPRING BREAK FORT LAUDERDALE 
Holiday ·tnn OceansiC:e March 17 
In· the Heart of the action -March 25 $209 per person quad occupancy 
Price Includes: Roundtrip transportation Lodging 


Disneyworld tickets 
CALL: 
234-2196 
INLJIANA MOTO;::t aus 
715 SOUTH MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 46624 
make our reservations now 


is that there is no concrete informa­tion on what the housing situation will be like for next year. "We just don't know what we're going to be faced with," he said. 
The proposed lottery was dis­cussed, and many suggestions were made on its implementation. One student suggested that the lottery be divided between seniors and graduate students, so that the whole burden of the lottery would not fall on-next year's seniors. 
Van W olvlear mentioned that hte possibility of splitting up a lottery among seniors ans grad students had never been brought up before. 
However, he discourage the suggestion, saying that the grad students as a whole were financi­.ally worse off than everybody else and that the University felt that it was "minimally taking care of them." 
He said that it was for this reason 
that the University was not seri­
ously considering turning St. Joe's 
and Brownson Halls, which are 
now graduate residences, into 
undergraduate dorms. 

When students mentioned that 
the University had a responsibility 
to its undergraduates as well, Van 
Wolvlear quoted Robert E. Gordon, 
vice-president for Advanced 
Studies, as saying that he wished to 
reserve St. Joe's and Brownson 
Halls for grad students. 

VAn W olvlear also pointed out 
that these halls were not in very 
good condition, so undergraduates 
were not being deprived of very 
much. 

Van Wolvlear recalled that the 
housing problem is not new. As 
[continued on page 7] 
Wednesday, November 29,1978 
the observer 



What does Student Union do for you? 
the comptroller, and three additional The Social Commission hopes to have commissioners. This year, John more co-sponsored events with halls on Bonaoci, Jerry Perez, and Gary Luchini campus. Keep this in mind when you or form the balance of the committee. your hall are planning projects which Among bther responsibilities, the steer­may be too large to handle alone. 
such as the Student Players productioning committee nominates the new Direc­of "You're a Good Man Charlie Brown",

tor by March 1st and is responsible for Academic Commission 
a performance by the National Theatre ofhis removal. 
the Deaf, and a visit from actor William

We hope that you come to see our John Kuluz is the Academic Commis­
Windon performing Thurber II, based on

operation in person. Student Union sioner. He is a junior pre..rprofessional 
the life of the famed humorist.

offices are located on the 2nd floor of major. John hopes his commission can 
The Midwest Blues Festival is. also

LaFortune. Please feel free to visit, ask "provide a smorgasborg of topics" so 
staged by this commission. This yearthat there will be something of interest Albert Collins and John Lee Hooker werefor everyone. Already this year the the headliners. They put on a great twoAcademic Commission has sponsored

''stE WHAlS day show. Jerry encourages anyone
the NASA Symposium and the two day willing and interested in helping out withAssassination Workshop, Who Shot a big event or other activity to stop upHAPPENING~ J FK? We also have had speakers like and see him in the Student Union offices. 
Timothy Leary; Henery Edwards, who Remember, the key word for Culturalwrote the screenplay for Sgt. Pepper's Arts is participation.
Lonely Hearts Club Band and Ralph Nader; others who are scheduled to Services Commission 
appear this year are the Amazingquestions, or better yet, offer your Kreskin, Larry Kusche on the Bermuda services. Volunteers are always needed Triangle, and Dr. Karlis Kaufmanis on Gary Luchini, a. senior Accounting for a variety of jobs. Student Union is the Star of Bethlehem. John has other major, heads the Services Commission. fun, exciting, socializing, entertaining possibilities in the works right now, This commission, although often in the and getting involved. There is some­including Jesse Jackson. hopes background, provides numerous vital
John 

it's what you services as Book
thing for everyone, and that the range of speakers this year will such the Exchange, 
refrigerator the service,

make it because it's your Student Union. be education"al as well as entertaining for rental, rider 
What Does the Student Union Do the Student Body. On-campus mail, unpainted furniture, For You? Social Commission can help Free University and the Freshman
The Academic Commission Register. Recently the commissionother campus organizations to sponsQr Plant
Remember Plant Sales I and II, the "You ought to be having fun'" is the speakers. If any group needs help in this finished two additional projects: 
Neil Young concert, the two day Assass­Social Commission's philosophy, accord­area, let John know. Sale II and the publication of the student ination conference -Who shot JFK?, ing to John Bonacci. John is a senior Come on out and listen up. It will be telephone directories. The list of refrigerator rental, Welcome Week, The Marketing major and heads the commis­well worth your time. • servic;es provided by this commission is 
Sting and other campus movies, book sion this year. long, but it can never be too long. Gary exchange, the NASA .symposium, Home­The Social Commission is responsible Cultu;al Arts Commission is always open to hear additional coming Week and Dance•' These were for directing activities like Welcome suggestions that help fill the needs ofthe just a few of the activit• ·s which the Week, Homecoming Week, Hurricane The Cultural Arts Commission is students. He. welcomes all ideas, so Student Union has org,u. i?ed or spon­party, concerts on the quads, the Nazz, directed by Jerry Perez, a senior in please give him a ring at 7757 or stop sored for the Notre Dam" student body campus dances, Happy Hours, the American Studies. Jerry hopes to up at his office on the 2nd floor of this year. The list will , ·:"ltinue to grow Quickee, Darby's, and the yearly Snow include many more students in commis­LaFortune. as the semester come to d dose. As you Sculpture contest. The list need not stop sion activities this year. aee, the Student Un•,•n is a very there. John love~ to hear new ideas. The Cultural Arts Commission is important part of student life--socially, The Social Commission needs a lot of traditionally responsible for the Sopho­pP.rsonally, and culturally. We believe man power to carry out its events, and more Literary Festival, Collegiate Jazz Student Union is vital to healthy student loads of events tc create an exciting Festival, Midwest Blues, and the Isis living and helps balance academic social schedule. Any and all volunteers Student Art Gallery. In addition, this education at Notre Dame. 
and ideas are welcome. year this commission oversaw projects 
What is the Student Union? 
The Student Union IS the enterprise sector of Student Government. Its purpose is to provide rather than represent. To achieve this end, the Union is comprised of several different commissions. A director oversees operations. All positions in the organiza­tion are filled by Notre Dame students, and every activity is student sponsored. This makes the ND Student Union something special! Most Unions are run by a full-time professional staff with salaries ranging anywhere from $10,000 to $18,000. Members of the Notre Dame Student Union, however, donate their time, concern, and hard work because they care aboot student life. We make a few more mistakes than a professional staff would, but we feel we have a better idea of student needs and desires. We are in a better position to plan activities around the Unions $66,500 budget. 
Concert Commi.•~ion

Union Organization Jim Speier Concert •C<.>mmissioner, 
Each Union commission concentrates 
works with promoters :t, securing con­I on a particular aspect of student life. 

certs for the studt:nt body . .I im, a senior,The Social, Cultural Arts, Academic, is enthus•'d abot..'l the concu1 possibilities Services, Concerts and Movie Commis­for both this sem< .wr and nt'Xl.

sions each have their own commissioner This semest>'·· " rrogr·,mt included
' and staff. The entire Union O!Jeration is ~ucn lMnds as I ort-ignt:r .• ·~·e~. and Neil:~~ managed by the Director, l3ill Roche, Young. The st>cond S! .•.lestcr will be ~.•::·,I who is aided by an Associate D1rector, 
even :,etter. Notr~' :J,ml· UJ>doubtedly'~ Gene Wol~shyn, the Comptroller, Mo has the fmest t •mCf~rt S\ ,,,.,!;de of any 
~~ Carney, and an executive staff headed school in the cow•try
~ by Curt Hench. In addition, special 
~ services are provided by the tickPt office • manager, Joe LaCosta, and Campus Movie Commissicn Press manager, Bill Rivard. 
The Student Union steering committee 
All campus movies arP ordered and is responsible for the budget anci pohcy 
scheduled by the Movie Cornmissioner,. decisions of the Union. The committee is 
Betty Sommers, a senior business major, chaired by the Director and consists of 
after consultation with various people Wednesday, November 29, 1978 


the observer 
5 

What does Student Union dofor you?  
and gro~ps. Betty feels that this The "three or four to one ratio" that you poets. The week opens with a presenta­semester's movie schedule will be hear so much about fell apart. tion by the featured author (last Edward entertaining as well as culturally enrich­Albee appeared). A series of eveningOpportunity, fun, dancing, a live band, a ing. lectures deliverd by other talentedgood time. What more could you want? writers continues during the week.If you missed Hurricane, you'd better Calendar Office Workshops are offered during the dayget your Bull Moose tickets early. They providing an opportunity for thosewon't last long.Joanne Dowd and Rosanne Pozgai are interested to meet and talk to1 the the co-calendar coordinators for this authors on a one to one basis. The week year. They attempt to eliminate schedul­Welcome Week is truly a literary celebration and is ing conflicts before they occur. This THE NAZZ... enjoyed by guests, faculty, and students office is also an information service. Any Welcome Week I is history, but wait alike. group wishing to sponsor an activity till next year! An innovation of this The Nazz is open every Friday and can call the Calendar Office to find out year's Union, Welcome Week proved to Saturday night. Student musicians, TICKET OFFICE... what is planned for the desired date of be one of the most successful events of vocalists and comedians are featured. the event. the year. Providing an opportunity for Each group or individual performs about The Student Union's ticket office sells They both stress, however, that the students to get together outside of class an hour and a half. As many as two or tickets to all Student Union sponsored calendar office can only be effective if before the deluge of quizes, tests and three acts can be offered in one evening. concert events, outside promoted con­they are informed of activities. They papers. Welcome Week filled that badly The Nazz provides an opportunity for certs which might draw a large number encourage all halls, groups and organi­needed "bonanza" of events during the those with talent to share it with others: of students and to any other Student zations to notify them of coming events. first week of school. Remember the It has been extremely successful and Union event which requires ticket sales. continues to offer a good entertainment The Student Union ticket office will also alternative. The Nazz also offers .sell tickets for any legitimate student occasional weekday entertainment such organization which provides numbered as Jazz at the Nazz. Keep your eye out tickets and an explanatilln of the event to for Nazz schedules! which these tickets apply. Tickets must be presented well in advance of the ISIS... scheduled date of sale. lotteries are held for every concert at ISIS Art Gallery is a student managed 6:00p.m. the evening preceding opening operation. ISIS offers art students day of ticket sales. The lottery display space for their work. Many of determines the places people will occupy the Senior art majors and Graduate art when they come to buy "tickets the next students sponsor personal art shows day at 8:00 a.m. Students need I.D. -N£EO A Ill~? .. here. ISIS is located in the Old cards to receive a lottery number and to double feature movies, the picnics, the Fieldhouse and is open every weekday buy tickets at the window the nextRider Board [revised] concerts on the Quads, and the Polish and occasionally on weekends. Every­morning. The person entered in the If you're in need of transportation Wedding? Who could forget? But like one is encouraged to check it out for new lottery does not have to buy tickets we said, wait till next year! developments and shows.home for the holidays, we probably have the ne~t dtty, but anyone buying tickets what you're looking for. Operated in his place must have his I.D. card. SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL.•jointly by the Student Union Services All checks should have the I.D. of the Commission and Ombudsman, we do the person who wrote the check printed on************** best we can in matching up those looking This springtime festival is one of a it. The ticket office is located on the kind -a solid week of lectures andfor rides and those looking for riders. second floor of ·LaFortune StudentIn addition to tbe many events and workshops given by talented writers andCall OBUD (6283) and they will take your Center.activities which Student Union has • destination and whether you are looking scheduled for this year, special services for a ride or rider. If they can't match and events are made available to the you up on the spot, they'll call you as student body. soon as a match is available. Try it! It might save you a lot of thumbing. QUICKEE...Collegiate jau Festival The Quickee is a shuttle bus serviceIf Jazz is your thing, we have the "Big which leaves from the circle every halfEvent" for you: Collegiate Jazz hour on weekend evenings. Although itFestival. Held annually in the spring, is not available every weekend, it isthe best University and College jazz scheduled to run approximately four • bands in the nation compete, to be weekends a semester. The Quickeejudged by some of the best Jazz takes riders to destinations such as:musicians in the country. This year they Boar's Head. Forum I and II Theatersinclude such outstandings as Louis Kubiaks, Shula's, The Heidlberg andBellson, Lew Tabackin, Hubert Laws, Portofino's. Advance notihcafron will beJohn Lewis, Larry Ridley, Dan given.Morgenstern. This year's festival should be even better. Ask around. It's great! DARBY'S..• Hurricane and Bull Moose "Darby' Place", so named by Father The biggest parties of the semesters Griffin, after his faithful companion, is aren't even held on campus! Jefferson just the spot for all late night studiers. Lounge is where the action is. A ticket Located in the basement of LaFortune gets you transportation, a band, and all Student Center, Darby's is also great for the beer you can drink. Hurricane was late night visiting. Donuts, soft drinks, so successful that more people wanted to hot chocolate and coffee are available Arthur Miller stands out as one of the more well-known authors who have dance than the dance floor could hold. until 4:00a.m. at the Sophomore literary Festival.  




>
a: 
:::;) 
m 
en 
w 
z 
0 
0 
c 
~r, r m:?JR 
7HC fY.ITRITOF THEJa/ OUNNO, 
SCiiOOL a=AnRIILnY. ?flt/1<. TM (j)(J(JNG Ot.rrfiR >W-Nor.'7lFE I<MXJJ-ItW JJ5T:::ctM5 7HAT'S SO SENSIBlE 7l-I!3SE: ME .. {)AYS! "-.. I 
OH,{AK}W.. YOfJ f?/:AL.L y SOUND IN 
CONTROL OF 
YOUR LIFe! 
\ 

'All Over' opens this week 
ALL OVER, Edward Albee's play about death and dying, will be the second season production of the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre. The production will run at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, December 1, 2 and 3, and Wednes­day, Thursday, Friday and Satur­day, Dec. 6, 7, 8 and 9. 
The:: play does not utilize the regular auditorium seating. ·Audi­ence members will be seated randomlv within the environmental setting O'f the play. ~ecause of the limited space, early ticket reserva­tions a.re advised. Reservations may be made by calling 284-4176. 
ALL OVER is a play about facing the impending death of a loved one and the-death of wasted life. The action centers ar< ·~nd. a rich and powerful man wh\.l lies on his deathbed. Hov<•ever. the focus is on those that gatht!t-around him: his wife (Eileen Durkin) from whom he ha.:. ueen separated for 20 years, his Mistress (Cathy Hurst) whom he has loved during this time, his 
'' 
' 
Best Friend (Tony Mockus) and partner in business, his Daughter (Lisa Jaquez) who has turned against the family and his Son (Mark Harris) who has failed to live up to any of his father's expecta­tions. 
These characters have lived their lives in this great man's shadow. As the shadow weakens, they find themselves lost in their own wasted past. The present is a grim reminder of this past. The future is uncertain and dismal. They are trapped by loridincss, sel(-loath­ing, banality and the threat of nothingness 
This production will mark two innovations in the Notre Dame ­Saint Mary's Theatre. ALL OVER is .the first all-student production of a major season, with underclass­men handling all aspects of. the show. The director i.s Mark Amenta, a senior Speech and Drama major who directed two previous student produdions: The Lesson, by Eugene Ionesco, and Les Parents Terribles, by Jean Cocteau. 
The second innovation is the play's setting, designed by senior Speech and Drama major Jim Houle. The action will take place on 64 multi-leveled, cushioned platforms on which the audience will be seatal. 
Houle designed the set and lighting for last year's student production of The Madman and the Nun and for· this past summer's productions of A Tale of Sleeping BeiUlty, AJa.lriin, ·Treasure Jsland and You Cat•'~ Tak~ It With You. He also de~igncd the set :md costumes for You're A Good Man, Cbv-He Bro\<rll, presented by the Student Play•. ~s. 
CILAjobs ·available at VSO 
ApplicaT.ion:.. for a CILA summer project may . be picked up at the Volunteer Services Office in the LaFortune Student Center. Addi­tional information will be available soon. 
. ' :~ 


• 
6 the observer Wednesday, November 29, 1978
r 
........... 
> 
I Fox to talk
I 

~ND 5/VCTHEATRE  lilt? ~() § ..( llit?catr~ ~rt?§t?llt§ lclwcarcl Al()f?t:~§  
Clll ()~f?(  

S(Jrn lr1 ()~lcltJ~t1lh1 Auclltt;rltJIT1 Ill. Sc1t. StJrl. [)(!c:. 1~:1~-1 ltf'iJ. lt1tJUt. trl. Sc1t. Ut:c:. tJ~l ~s~CJ 
Seating is very limited. The audience will be seated randomly within the environmental setting of the play. Please note the Sunday and Wednesday performances. 
Reserve your tickets now! Call284-4176 
winter's here ! 
store your bicycle 

Where.: gate 14., the Stadium When: thurs, nov. 30/fri, dec. 1 from 1-4pm
please note: all bicycles must be registered. bicycles may be registered only between the hours of 4and 8 pm at the LOST and FOUND 
OHice, rm 121, Administration Building 
~~----------------------------~---------­
~ ..\ ·.·.·· 

~ .·.·. ' .... (~:tt. 
~ . \·· 

micfloeJ &co. : ~ 
Hair Cc,ncepts 'Hair designs fo~r Men & Women, with the emphas:is on Easy Care' 
open late tues.-thurs. 8pm 
North 1f2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 
272··7222 

2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood
south 291-1001 
master charge visa
1.-----------------.....-··-----------------·· 

oble.s<f!., 
PIZZA 
&OTHER GOOD 
THINGS 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD &CLEVELAND 
_______________________..,_______________,_._._...,.....,....-----·'11! 
277-5300 $1.00 OFF EXPIR[S 12/16/78 
1 ANY lARGE DEEP DISH SICiliAN PIZZA ! 
1-----------------~~!~!~.!l~.!'~----------------J 
on sociobiology 
by Rick Travers 
Internationally renowned anthro­pologist Robin Fox, a Rutgers University professor and one of the leading figures in the controversial area of sociobiology will discuss "Why Isn't There a Darwinian Social Science?" at 4 p.m. Thurs­day in the Library Auditorium. 
As a self-defined nco-Darwinian, Fox has become an outspoken participant in the current debate over the degree to which man's behavior is determined by bio­logical factors. Although not a supporter of either extreme in the debate, Fox insists that "man has the kinds of cultures and societies he has because he is the kind of o;pecies he is.'' 
Trained at the Univers,ity of London, Fox has carried out exten­sive research in rural Ireland and is generally regarded as the leading authority on kinship and family in contemporary anthropology. He has had four books published, including his major study, Kinship and Marriage. In recent weeks fl'llowing the death of anthropolo­gists Margaret Meade, Fox was selected by the New York Times to write a coiumn assessing Meade's role and contribution in 20th cen­tury anthropology. 
Fox's talk will be interdiscipli­nary. introducing evidence from philosphy, history and biology, as well as the social sciences, in presenting his proposals for a Darwinian social science. 
Lunch program recieves support 
Due to the overwhelming success of its three-week trial period, the "Take-A-Prof-to-Lunch program has been instituted on a permanent basi!> bv the administration. 
Twenty-five free co-ex lunch tickets are now available each week to students and faculty members 
~~a~:rt~~~.ent Government office of "It is important that the program ret·eives continued support from the students,'' said Renee Lcuchten, a student working with Campus Ministry on the program. She added. ''The administration will evaluate the program periodic­ally and will terminate it if tickets are not being used." The program is running for the first three days of this week .. 

Campus provides data 

[continued from page 3] first sign of trouble. "Everyone explained that the average student tries to play lawyer--don't! There paysabout $70 to $75 in rent per are certain legal troubles you can month, about $15 per month for get into. And it's best to get the utilities. and about $20 per week benefit of aid," Rochford said. for food. His total annual projec­tion was $1530. According to D'Antonio, the 
Legal questions were answered whole purpose of the meeting was by Rochford and he stressed the to make students aware of services need for students to consult the avaiiable to them, should they Legal Aid office or Off-Campus decide to move off-campus. He Housing before signing a lease so added that complete information h k h t th will be available in his office by
1
that t ey now exact Y w a ey

ettl.ng t'nto He also exhorted Dec. 1 and that another meeting is 
are g · 
students to consult Legal Aid at the being planned for next week. 
~---~----=-------_:_...:__________

colleuiate crossword 
l:!!J · 
ACROSS 47 Stowe heroine 12 Antiseptic 
48 Menu item 15 Involving punish-Like some test 50 Feeling regret ment scores 51 French number 17 Prevent 
7 Street workers 52 Shakespeare's river, 20 Gibbon 13 Famous gangster et al. 23 Mythological 14 Fierce feline 54 India -creature 15 Paralyzes 55 Travesty 24 Having a chat 16 Like a zebra 56 Mexican shawls 27 Relative of the 18 Jazz trumpeter 58 Philippine civet 
Don-headhunters 28 Small songbirds 19-Stevt-ns 60 Shoot over again 31 Part of TGIF· 21 Cubic meter 61 Geological period 33 Comedian Louis ­22 "Untouchables" 62 Unusual feats 36 Israeli dances 
character 63 Like relief work 37 Cromwell and Hardy 23 Frolic about 38 Stool 25 Do newspaper work DOWN 39 Obviously factual 26 81 ack cuckoo statements 27-Mills 1 Type of triangle 40 Longer and leaner 29 -de France 2 Summons (2 wds.) 41 Brain cell 30 Like some test 3 Orbital point 42 Thrown out 
graders 4-Lane 43 Coin inscriptions 
32 Wrench 5 Chemical suffix 46 Container 34 Razing material 6 Say at great 49 Throw f nto 35 Be nosy length disorder 36 Position of uneasi-7 Placards 51 Leverets 
ness (2wds.) 8 Statute 53 Gyrate 40 Compared 9-libre 55 Points in geometry 44 Ending for pay 10 Type style 57 Young pig 45 Asian headdresses 11 Tricked (2 wds.) 59 Region of India 


• 
CLASSIFIEDS 
• 
NOTICES 

Girl Swimmers Unital Organizational meeting Thurs. Nov. 30, LaFortune Ballroom, 7:30. 
Need a ride? Call Wilson Dr1veaway. Cars to all major cities. All you pay for Is gas. Cars are brand new. For more Information, call Dan at 1783. 
Pandora's continues Its Happy Hours, Friday 3:1J0.6:00. All used books 112 price. Behind the N.D. Apts. 233-2342. 
Budget light hauling for ND-SMC com­munity. Call 234-4289 or 283-3424. 
Buy low priced Third World Handicrafts today at the St. Francis Shoppe Sale -LaFortune 1o-2. Library Concourse 6-11. 
Give the folks back home a break for Christmas with an autographed copy of BEFORE ROCKNE AT NOTRE DAME [$9.95/clothbound]. Author CH ET GRANT and introducer DAN DEVINE will sign your copy at Library Lounge, this Friday, 7-9. Refreshments. 
Attention all Logan volunteers and inter· ested students! The annual Christmas dance for the mentally handicapped will be held this Friday, December 1st, from 7:3Q-10:00 P.M. in the Logan Center cafeteria. Come and join the fun! A live band and refreshments will insure agood time! A decoration making party will be held Thursday night at Logan at 7:00 
P.M. Please come and help us make decorations for the dance! Questions call Mike at 1371 or Sue at 41-4832. 
Attention all Logan Center Saturday Rec people! Regular Saturday Rec will be held December 2nd at Logan Center from 9:0Q-11:30 A.M. Bring your swimsuit if you like and help the kids enjoy Saturday Rec. 
FOR RENT 

Self Storage-100 sq. ft. and up. Special group student rates. 3001 U.S. 31 -Niles 684-4880 684-2895. 
For rent, 2nd semester, 3bedroom house on beautifully wooded 1.4 acres with trout stream; gas heat; fireplaces; $400 7343 or 684-6620. 
LOST AND FOUND Found: on the quad Tuesday morning, Nov 21, a left·hand glove, dark brown leather with rabbit fur(?) lining. Claim at Observer office. 
Found aTimex day-date automatic, water resistant men's watch in Green Field. When found, read Tues. 14. Inquire at Lost and Found Office In Ad Building. 
HELP! Between lunch and dinner on Monday the 27th, someone accidently walked off with my knapsack from S. Dining hall. Please, I need it back as it has all my notes for all my classes in it. If you found abrown bag and/or 4 yellow spiral notebooks, please call 6757 as soon as possible. 
FOR SALE 

1972 Ford Gran Torino, good condition, new tires and battery. Some rust. From $975. 291-4530 between 5 and 7 p.m. 
For sale: "Black Panther" hockey skates. Top condition. Size 9 1/2-10.Cal/1493. 
WANTED 

Desperately need a ride home for Christmas break. The Philadelphia vicinity (east on the PA Turnpike). I can leave Wednesday December 20 at 12:30 and I will gladly share all expenses and driving. Please call Tom at 1138. 
Need 2 GA tickets or 1 student, 1 GA ticket for the Valpo basketball game Saturday. Please call Tom at 1138. 
Manchester, Missouri--two competent drivers for Christmas Holidays--male or female-for details call 291-1887--ask for Mrs. Robert Heron only. Free transpor­tation. 
Anyone needing a roommate for next 
semester write to: 
Greg Quinn 
Univ. of Notre Dame Rome Studies 
Program 
Via Monterorie 76 
Rome, Italy 00186 Please send all Information, 
$50 per 100 envelopes stuffed and addressed at home. Write Benco Enterprises Box 5239 Austin, TX 78763. SOON. 
Dishwasher wanted. Weds., Fri., Sun. nights. Apply in person at NICOLA'S. 
809 N. Michigan.
• 
Wanted: Xmas decorations Xmas gift wrap • 
Kids toys [13 and under) These Items are needed for "the ANNUAL CHRISTMAS PARTY for NEEDY CHILDREN" Dec. 16 INTER, ESTED-call Terr1 684-5186 
Wanted: Salesperson hours 8-12 Monday-Friday at the County Seat­Scottsdale-call 291-4502 ask far Unda. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/full time. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $5D0-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free info.-Write: International Job Center, Box 4490-14 Berkeley, CA 94704 
I sure would appreciate aride to Daytona Beach Florida area for Christmas. Willing to share driving and expenses. Call Damian at 1003. 
Babysitter needed 2-3 days/wk for 9­month old. Schedule negotiable. Own transportation necessary. Scottsdale Mall area. 291-4530. 
Need one student or GA ticket for Valparaiso or Rice. Frank 288-3204. 
Wanted: one student ticket for Valpar­aiso. Call 4-1-4420. 
PERSONALS 

c. Dampf and all of former 2-South, Miss you lots -keep writin'. 
Love, ASpanish Senorita (?) 

This is a poem dedicated to Matt Who doesn't always know where he's at He has a roomie named Mike Some say Andy Gibb, he is like When all are dancing, Matt hides from 
the crowd But he's not shy on the phone, just 
loud!!! Now that we've got ourselves in trouble too deep-­just remember, Patsy and Bethie love ya 
Riep
P.S. See ya New Year's Eve 
Take care and beware of Pat If you don't believe, ask Matt She's a wild and crazy gal Fun at a party as a drinking pal Though small and petite in size In spirit she'd win a prize Just crank up the stereo with Bruce And she'll let it all hang loose 
P.S. Take shelter if you play Born to Run. 
Do you call that poetry? 
To Kevin K.K. Congratulations! I knew you could do it! You're my kind of swimmer! Princess 
Much thanks to everyone who helped Zelda Ray and Co. drink all their CoorsI! By the way, Zelda needs a ride home to Minnesota for Christmas break. Of course she'll make it worth your while! Call at 8125. 
Sorry Z, but I couldn't resist! 
Happy Birthday Mary and Ellen! Love, Jean, Maureen and Ellen 
Speaking of birthdays.... 
Happy belated birthday to Doug M., 1 didn't get you a present, so how about an Italian Kiss instead? 
Who else? 

And belated wishes to John Walsh, Louise sends aspecial hug and a kiss for the favorite man In her life! 
Copy Editor: Don't cut down on us MCPs until you've walked a mile In our shoes. FCC 
P.S. Thanks amillion for the timely info! 
Hear the Adonis interview Keith Moon, The Resurrection Kid. Tomorrow Night 9-11 PM on WSND. 
Mistletoe Madness Is comlng...Pucker up! 
Are you Interested in being baptized or learning more about the Roman Catholic religion? For more information about the Notre Dame Catechumenate Program, please call: 283-6536 or 283-3820. 
Frosh Finale--Dec. 1, 9-1, Stepan Center~ "It's only a buck!" 
SHAKESPEAREAN GUILD (AKA Fea­tures Writers) forming. All budding FAULKNERS* HEMINGWAYS* and VIDALS are asked to attend brief meeting 7 PM Thursday evening at Observer office, or call CHRIS STEWART at 7471, 3748. 
Brian Logue: Congratulations on admis­sion to medical school. You deserve it for you have worked hard. 
Love, from your best friend. 

Kate McDavitt: Katie Katie Katie!! How arteth thou? Hope thou had awonderful Turkey break. When will we go sleigh riding? THE NEW YORK HITCHHIKER 
Get ready for Mistletoe Madness, December 2 is the day! 
Wednesday November 29 
the observer 
7 

Van Wolvlear comments 
[continued from page 3) 
rector of Cavanaugh in 1954-SS he 
remembered that it was necessary 
then for a student to keep his grade 
point average above 2.25 or else he 
couldn't live on campus the next 
year. 

He said that the housing situa­
tion is definitely a "mathematics 
problem" since there was a ques­
tion of what to do with all the 
incoming freshmen, as well as the 
upperclassmen already present. 
Van Wolvlear also commented 
on his decision about the proposed 
Student Union record store. He 
said that there is "not a demand for 
a record store." He felt that "the 
Student Union should not be 
involved in business,'' since it was 
not its main function. 
Comparing the idea of a record store with a dorm food sales operation, Van Wolvlear said that a food sales had a demand for its services, while a record store did not, even though both of these organizations could be seen as competing with previously existing University organizations. He ·therefore did not think a record 
store.l!ecessary. 
Discussing parietals, ·Van W ol vlear said that the student parietals proposal was subject to the appro­val of the Dean of Students. The present regulation regarding pari­etals came trom the .Board of Trustees and was designed so that students could "walk into their rooms without embarassing any­one," according to Van Wolvlear. He added that he did not want students' rooms to "become 24­hour lounges." 
Van Wolvlear said that the 
University wants the quiet hours 
parietals arrangement and that's 
"what it will have." This is 
because the University considers 
quiet hours an important rule and 
they will preserve it, according to 
Van Wolvlear. 
Various ideas were proposed for parietals by the students, including a 3-month study utilizing one hall in which ~here would be no parietals and coed living, in an attempt to "see what it looks like." 
%Observer 
Sports 
lnterhall results 
The Regina Hall Fourth Floor South won the Saint Mary's Inter­mural Volleyball Tournament yes­terday, routing the Crazy Quints from Le Mans Hall in the finals, 15-4, 11-15, and 15-8. 
Regina South had advanced to the finals by way of victories over the Laura Vodicka Team from Holy Cross, Regina Second Floor South, Le Mans Second Annex and a bye. 
********* 

The Interhall Tennis Tournament, which began in the second week of September,-was finally completed last week. Winners for the mixed doubles division were Jory Segal and Barry Sundland, both graduate students. Jay Decio defeated Margarete Griego to win the women's tournament. For the men'.s novice division, Rich Scholl defeated Rich Danburg, 6-3, 6-2, to win the title. Out of 82 participants in the men's open division, Sam Kahale from Grace Hall defeated Barry Sundland in three sets, 6-2, 1-6, 6-l. 
•

Congrats to Cat Wittenberg of SMC. She won the Adonis Thanksgiving Feast. 
Sarah Kunst is 5'3" yea!!! She Qi ew! 
M,onday Night Staff: I bet you're wondering why I cut off my fingertip. It was so my finger could be like my heart....without feeling. It's so nice to know 1'm appreciated 
even  though  it's  obvious  I  can  be  
replaced .  Remaining mellow,  
me  

Van Wolvlear eommented that the time to assimilate the situation." 
idea had certainly never been tried, The meeting closed with discus­but that any decisions regarding ti sion of the possibility of installing were not for him to make. 
coin-operated washers and dryersWhen students said that hall somewhere onthe North Quad in judicial boards should have more addition to the ones already' in 

responsibility in the appeals pro­Badin Hall. · 
cess for students, Van Wolvlear 
expressed concern that a differnce Van Wolvlear 'said that such an 
in hall judicial boards would pre­idea was possible, if a "neutral 
sent a problem in uniformity of the area could be found to put the 
interpretation of regulations. tpachines in." He described a 
HE mentioned that the problem "neutral area" as being a non­
comes from the fact that the residence location, but didn't really 
judicial board is "not like a daily know where such an area could be 
business ... there is not continuity." found on the North Quad. He 
He said that the University "tries expressed hope that a solution 
to consider student requests--it could be found sometime in the 
doesn't shut them off, but it takes future. 
Paul Mullaney:==============:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=====================:::========================:=:==:==:======:=:::=:===:=:: 
Irish picked 4th ... 

:::::::::::::::::::;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~COnt. 
[Continued from page 8) 
guard Roy Hamilton are sure -All-American choices, and should lead UCLA to its 13th straight conference title, as only Pac-10 foe Southern Cal will challenge. Gary Cunningham, whose first Bruin squad a year ago suffered regular season losses only to Notre Dame, will also rely on 6-9 center Gig Sims, the other returning starter. 
3. 
MICIDGAN STATE--Jud Heathcote definitely holds the upper hand in a vastly improved Big Ten conference, as his Spartans are once again led by Earvin "Magic" Johnson, Sports IDustrated's latest cover boy. Although the 6-8 sophomore guard is the center of Spartan attention, State also returns smooth 6-7 forward Greg Keiser, the team's only senior, who scored 17-7 a game and pulled down an average of 9.1 rebounds a year ago. Sophomore center Jay Vincent, at 6-8, and junior gua~d Terry Donnelly will aid the Spartans, who are shooting for their second loop crown in as many years. 

4. 
NOTRE DAME--If the Irish have one advantage over any team in the country, it is their depth. Al110 returning lettermen are sure to see plenty of action, expecially sophomore forwards Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson. Phelps' squad has the potential to match. if not better, last year's performance, but two things are necessary if the Irish plan on traveling to Salt Lake City this March. First of all, consistent play is a must from co-captain centers Bill Laimbeer and Bruce Flowers. This was clearly evident in the intrasquad scrimmage of two. weeks ago. Laimbeer was 6-of-8 from the floor, scored 15 points and engulfed 13 rebounds, while Flowers hit one of seven from the field, scored three points and had three rebounds. Laimbeer's squad won by 15. Secondly, if junior Rich Branning relinquishes his spot at the point to play a wing, he'll have to do more scoring than his 11.0 average of last year. A fine shooter, Branning has not really exhibited that dimension of his game that often in the past two years. 

5. 
MICIDGAN--Basketball fans are quick to point out that 6-7 center Phil Hubbard returns for the Wolverines after missing last season with an injured left knee that required surgery. And they are quick to point out that Hubbard, teaming with sophomore swing man Mike McGee and senior guard Tom Staton, will more than likely be right in the thick of things for the Big Ten crown. But what they fail to indicate is that Michigan coach Johnny Orr had one of the best recruiting years of anyone in the country. Freshman recruits John Garris (6-9 from Bridgeport, Conn.), Thad Garner (6-7 from Gary, Ind.) and Keith Smith (6-0 from Detroit) leave Orr with a surplus of talent for the future, let alone the present. 

6. 
KANSAS--Paul Mokeski, the Jaynawks' 7-1, 255-pound center, could lead coach Ted Owens' team to bigger and better things this year, provided he stays out of foul trouble. Kansas appears sound at guard with Wilmore Fowler and Darnell Valentine, the latter of whom led the Big Eight in steals and assists last year as a freshman. The Jayhawks also hit the jackpot in the recruiting war, landing three prize freshmen, including South Bend's own David Magley, Indiana's "Mr. Basketball" last year. 

7. 
N.C. STATE--Oyde "The Glyde" Austin and Hawkeye Whitney are the leaders of the Wolfpack, which t.;urns nine of its top 10 performers from last year's third-place ACC squad. Both juniors this season, Whitney and Austin paeed Norm Sloan's '77-78 team with averages of 


15.3 and 12.4 per game. Also returning are starters Tony Warren (6-6, 
11.7 ppg), Kendal "Tiny" Pinder (6-8, 11.1) and Glenn Sudhop (7-2, 5.8), also a South Bend product. Sharpshooting guard Kenny Matthews and pivotman Craig Watts add depth to a W olfpack unit which could give Duke a real run for its money in the ACC. 
8. 
LOUISVILLE--The Cardinals'may not have a center to replace 6-11 Ricky Gallon, but that won't stop Coach Denny Crum's quintet from making a run for the nation's top spot. Darrell Griffith, perhaps the most exciting player in college basketball, is back with his collection of slam dunks. The junior guard will provide leadership on a team which boasts nine freshmen and sophomores on a 13-man roster. Guard Tony Branch and forward Bobby Turner return with their steady play, and should be aided tremendously by •freshman Scooter McCray, Derek Smith, Jerry Eaves and Wiley Brown. If this is not the year of the Cardinal, next year just might be it. 

9. 
TEXAS--Four starters return from a Longhorn team which finished last season with a 26-S mark and an NIT crown. Third-year coach Abe Lemons' cagers should win the Southwest Conference, but will feel the loss of center Gary Goodner. It appears that Lemons will go with a front line of 6-4 forward Ron Baxter, 6-7 forward Tyrone Branyan and 6-S center Ovie Dotson,, leaving the 'Horns with an obvious height disadvantage. Consistent play from pointman John Moore and last year's leading scorer, Jim Krivacs, will give the Orange and White a good backcourt combination. 

10. 
RUTGERS--Senior James Bailey, at 6-9, is one of the best big men in basketball, and has forgone the professional hardship draft to play for coach Tom Young's Rutgers squad. His play alone is enough to post a winning record for many teams, but with much help from Abdel Anderson and Daryl Strickland, the Scarlet Knights could dominate Eastern play and will no doubt point towards post-season play. 


Rounding out the top 20 hoop squads from Atlantic to Pacific: 
11. 
Syracuse 16. LSU 

12. 
Southern Cal 17. Iona 

13. 
San Francisco 18. Indiana 

14. 
North Carolina 19. DePaul IS. Maryland 20: · Marquette 


~-.--~---------------------~----~·~------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 29, 1978 
the observer
8 

Oklahoma back Billy Sims wins 1978 Heisman Trophy 
NEW YOilK [AP) • Junior half­back Billy Sims, the nation's lead­ing rusher who smashed the Okla­homa and Big Eight Conference single-season ground-gaining re­cords, won the Heisman Trophy Tuesday as the nation's outstand­ing college football player. 
In voting so close that a recount was ordered this morning, Sims won out over Penn State quarter­back Chuck Fusina, Michigan quarterback Rick Leach and South­ern California running back Charles White. 
Sims, a 205-pound speedster from Hooks. Texas, received 151 first-place votes, 152 second-place votes and 70 third-place ballots for a total of 827 points on a 3-2-1 vote basis. 
Fusina received 163 first-place votes, 12 more than Sims, but only 89 second-place votes and 83 third-place ballots for 750 points. 
Then came a large drop to Leach, whose totals were 89-58-52 for 432 points. White's total was 37-74-98 for 354 points. 
"Thank you, I appreciate it," Sims said when informed by tele­phone that he was the Heisman winner. 
Then he added, "My heart stopped beating." Although he had been mentioned as one of the leading candidates, 
•Sims expressed surprise that he was the winner. 
"I thought maybe.I would be in the middle of it but I thought Ron (sic) Leach would win it because he's had four years there, he did a 
lot of tremendous things and  he  
had  a  gooa  game  Saturday  on  
national television."  

'Sparky' Anderson fired; McNamara to lead Reds 
UNUNNATI [AP) • The Cincinnati Reds, whose world championships in 1975 and 1976 were followed by also-ran finishes the last two seasons, Tuesday fired Manager Sparky Anderson and replaced him with a "flabbergasted" John McNamara. 
"The past two years have been good by the standards of most clubs, but we are determined to set a higher standard," said President Dick Wagner, referring to the team's second-place finishes in the National League West. • 
"It is our decision that the move we make is in the overall best interest of making the Cincinnati Reds a better team. 
"Let's just say it's time for a change," added Wagner, who said only two -Russ Nixon and Ron Plaza -of six coaches were retained 
The Reds offered to reassign pitching coach Larry Shepard, bat­ting instructor Ted Kluszewski and George Scherger to other positions in the organization. Alex Grammas contract was not renewed. 
The change came as a surprise for Anderson, who took over as an unknown quantity in 1970 and guided the Reds to five division titles, four National League cham­pionships, and two World Series crowns. 
The 44-year-old Anderson had one more year on his contract and will be asked to do special assign­ments for the Reds, Wagner said. 
"I never had any knowledge,"' said Anderson when asked if he had any indication he would be fired. "I guess maybe I'm not smart enough to have the know­ledge,'' 
McNamara too was surprised about being signed by the Reds to a one year contract. Only 24 hours before appearing along with Wagner at a press conference here, McNamara was pitching batting practice as manager of the Licey 
Oub in the Dominican Republic Winter League. 
"I'm flabbergasted to have such an opportunity like this," McNamara said. "I'm still in a state of shock." 
McNamara previously manged the San Diego Padres and Oakland Athletics and last season was a third base coach for the California Angels. 
Sims is the third Oklahoma player to win the Heisman. The others were Billy Vessels in 1952 and Steve Owens in 1969. 
The Hooks, Texas, junior said in an interview Monday that the fact he had a "good year" is satisfac­tion enough and he is busy prepar­ing for the Orange Bowl rematch that pits the Sooners against Neb­Nebraska. 
Sims' description of his '1978 season as a "good year" is modest in the face of his statistics. The 
6-foot, 207·pounder holds the new Big Eight Conference rushing re­
cord of 1,762 yards, more than four 
times his 1977 season total. 
He leads the nation in rushing, with a high of 160.2 yards per game and 7.6 yards per carry, and in scoring with a total of 120 points. 
t4. t~~llS .· 

·~~ 1 .OQ'.J\ ~3~0 3Q7 •••· •...•.•• (•· · · 16, P~~burgh &.3·0 310 f7, Prihl.ue 8'24 · 2M· .·. ... 

lB. Mi~sourl 7~4~0 200... 
19. Jo'ra State 8-3.() 98 ~; Qllill S~t¢ CZ~~:t 9Q 
'Comeback Kid' saved the best for last 

by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

They call him "The Comeback Kid,':.. or "The Monongahela Minute­man."' Give him the ball and watch him work. 
He's everything they said ...only they didn't say enough. 
Just ask John Robinson. He stood on the sidelines and watched this kid tick off the last 12 minutes of a football game better than anyone he'd ever seen. 
57 yards ...Touchdown. 
98 yards ... Touchdown. 
57 yards ... Touchdown. 
Suddenly, Robinson, whose team had come through three quarters with lots of yardage and a 24-6 lead, found himself staring at a scoreboard that read: 
Notre Dame -25 USC-24 Time remaJnlng -46 seconds. 
"Who was that guy?" Robinson must have been asking himself as he watched number 3 leap off the field. 
"Did he dress in the locker room or do they bring a phone booth for him? 
O.J. may jump over billboards but this guy leaps tall buildings! In a single bound, no less." 
Of course, in the end it didn't matter; at least not to Robinson. Four plays and SO yards later, Frank Jordan, his placekicker, lifted one 37 yards and his Trojans pulled it out, 27-25. In between, quarterback Paul McDonald 

·· Both UCLA and Digger Phelp's Irish should prove to be in the thick of things in this vear's NCAA basketball race. Paul Mullanev tells why,
' ' 
below. [Photo by Doug Christian] 


The Nation's Best 

:===:='=====:=:=:===================:=:==='='=·=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=·=·='='='=================Goal Tending 
There are those who seem to think that Digger Phelps' 1978-79 Irish basketball squad could be the best to ever take to the hardwood at Notre Dame. Perhaps so. After all, 10 lettermen return from last year's 23-8 unit, which enjoyed claiming NQtre Dame's first-ever NCAA tournament regional title and a berth in the prestigious final four. 
But for the Irish to duplicate the results of a year ago will be no easy task. While feeling the losses of last year's co-captains, Dave Batton and Don "Duck" Williams, Phelps and Company will once again face what is 1 1 perhaps the toughest schedule in the country, including a suicidal away-from-home slate which the eighth-year coach expects will 1 sufficiently prepare his team for post-season play. 
Defending national champion Kentucky, which lost seniors Jack Givens, James Lee, Mike Phillips and Rick Robey, is mentioned little in pre-season contention talk, while '78 runner-up Duke seems to be grabbing all the attention with five starters returning. UCLA, Notre Dame and Michigan State also seem to be consensus top five picks. The pre-season outlook shapes up something like this: 
I. DUKE--Only reserve guard Bruce ~ell has graduated from coach Bill Foster's Blue Devil unit, which won 27 of 33 games before dropping a 94-88 decision in last year's title tilt against Kentucky. Duke leadership will be provided by senior guard Jim Spanarkel, who led the nation last year in both free throws shot and made. Point guard John Harrell, a 6-0 junior who averaged le$.5 than two turnovers a game last year, will aid Spanarkel in the backcourt. Junior center Mike Gminski, at 6-11, will be flanked by sophomores Eugene Banks (6-8) and Kenny Dennard (6-7), giving the Blue Devils a front line with both strength and agility. Freshman Vince Taylor, 6-4, was somehow recruited by Foster out of Lexington, Kentucky, and should see plenty of playing time. 
In no way, however, can Duke be considered a shoo-in, for the wild and crazy Atlantic Coast Conference is totally unpredictable year after year. North Carolina State, Maryland, Virginia and the other ACC schools are waiting in the wings to upset both the Blue Devils and the pollsters. 
2. UCLA--The Bruins aren't the powerhouse they once were, but 
nevertheless are among the nation's best. Forward David Greenwood and [Continued on page 7) 
fumbled. But it wasn't really a fumble. Was it? 
Of course not, signaled the official whose smile was highlighted by his deep Southern California tan. But, 'then again, how could it have been? A fumble, recovered by the Irish, would have made Notre Dame's magical comeback complete. And everyone knows there's no such thing as magic; at least not when the Green and Gold visit the Los Angeles Colliseum. 
But the day, if not the game ball, belonged to Joe Montana. His statis­tics, though incidental in the face of a heartbreaking loss, were phenomenal. After a three-for-IS first half, Montana hit 17 of 26 down the stretch for 358 total yards and three touchdowns. 
Notre Dame fans watching the come­back were probably too busy celebrating to recall other games when Montana, turned apparent Irish losses into spec­tacular come-from-behind wins. 
North Carolina, Air Force, Oemson, Purdue ... the list is as long as a Montana to-Haines bomb. And just as pretty. 
He started the final seven games last year and Notre Dame won them all. The Irish won the Cotton Bowl and the national championship and people started talking about Joe Montana being All-America and maybe even winning the Heisman Trophy in 1978. 
But when you are Notre Dame's quarterback, there are more important things to worry about.. .like history, and the inevitable comp<· sons were not long in coming. 
"He's good," they said, "but not like 
Lujack." "He can pass," the skeptics admit­ted, "but remember Theismann?" "Ah, but Montana can run," came the reply. 
"Not like Hornung." 

"Yeah, what about brains;'(" they tried again. "What about Tom Clements?" And so it went. But that's part of the 
fun of football and of being a fan­especially a Notre Dame fan. 
Except it wasn't much fun when the Irish were 0-2 and "Montana for Heisman in '78" sounded about as corny as "Nixon for President in '80." 
But a few of us went ahead and said it, believing that Joe Montana really was the best quarterback in the country. 
Better than Rick Leach. Better than Chuck Fusina. Better than Jeff Rut­ledge. Better than Thomas Lott. 
Then, last Saturday, almost as if to remind those whose faith had been shaken, Montana did it again. It was his last regular season game for the Irish and, looking back, it's not cliche to say that he saved the best for last. For a while, even the oldest-time Irish fan forgot that Clements may have been smarter, or Hornung faster. On this day, number 3 was, perhaps, the best of the best. 
But then it was over and he hung his head and retreated to the ·locker room to shower and dress, all the time thinking about what had just happened and aU he had done. 
He wasn't alone. 
"Who was that guy?" 


