
~-----·-----------­

Figures indicate continued housing shortages 
by Kathy Rosenthal Edmund Price, director of Housing, said that housing seems to mean more to the Notre and Dame student than it does to the average college student. He said, "Students here are John McDermott aggressive about their housing. It's such an important factor that it becomes 
over-emphasized.'' 
Figures indicate that overcrowding next fall will be even worse than this year's situation. Price explained that preference for on-campus housing is a national trend because Administration officials are still examining the causes of this year's overcrowding and are "campus life bas been made more attractive." He attributes the trend to two things--costs searching for both short and long-term solutions to the problem. of off-campus living and on campus freedoms, such as mobility, food service, and closeness 
There are presently 1,077 seniors living on campus. Next year's freshman class will to facilities. consist of approximately 1,625 students. A maximum difference of 548 on-1-ampus beds may Hofman ~greed, saying, "The desire to live on campus runs in cycles. At the moment, exist next fall. students want to stay on campus, but conditions may change, and then they may want to 
It is impossible to know how many seniors will remain on-campus until housing contracts move off again." For this reason, Hofman opposes the construction of another dorm as a are turned in. This year, about 237 extra students had to be placed in the dorms. Alumni, long-term solution to the problem. , Dillon, and Holy Cross halls each added at least 30 students. Quads were made into quints Price said, ''I don't care how the over-crowding situation will be solved. Let the students and four-man suites into six-man suites. decide. But a solution has to be found and soon." Price said he had been seeking solutions 
Dr. Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, said that at least three times in from his fellow administrators. ­the last seven years emergency housing was needed for freshmen. He added that freshmen Sr. Kathleen Rossman, rectress of Walsh Hall, has compiled a list of a!Jernatives to the overcrowding problems are usually taken care of by the fourth week of school. overcrowding situation from women rectors, administrators, and students. She stated that 
John Golderick, director of Admissions, said, "The problem did not originate with she does not necessarily support any one of these ideas, but said that "a combination of admissions. The problem was that fewer upper classmen moved off-campus." these ideas may be what we are looking for." Among the ideas are: 1) a forced lottery, 2) enticement for off-campus students through 
He explained that the Admissions office is not over-accepting applicants. Last year, subsidy, 3) new cafeteria arrangements for off-campus students, 4) enticement for graduate Admissions was seven students under their projected total, according to Golderick. "About students to move off campus, 5) housing graduate or senior men at St. Joseph's hall, 6)62 percent ofthose students who are accepted actually come here," he said. "This is much housing graduate or senior men at Moreau Seminary, 7) bringing mobile homes onto thehigher than the national average of 30 percent." Golderick said that Notre Dame's premises of the University, 8) building Quonset huts, 9) moving fifth-year students off

percentage may have to be adjusted next year in order to maintain an enrollment of 1,625-1,650. [continued on page 7] 
CLC presents proposal regarding overcrowding 
by Kathleen Rosenthal done about overcrowding; and (2) and 
is there going to be a lottery?" John McDermott Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of St. Ed's
The 
Hall, explained that, "We can The Campus Life Council (CLC) determine if there's going to be a 
subcommittee on overcrowding problem by moving the housing presented a 13-point proposal last contract date up." night at a meeting in Grace Hall. Housing contracts serve as an The discussion at the three and 
indicator of how many students one-half hour meeting ranged from plan to live on campus. Part of the 
changing housing contract dates to CLC's proposal suggested that the the quality of life at Notre Dame. contracts be turned in by Feb. 1. 

·n independent student newspaper ,erving notre dame and st: mary's Fr. Eugene Gorski objected to Much of the meeting focused on Vol. XIII, No. 49 Tuesday, November 14, 1978 the fact that the proposal made no this issue. Students objected to the mention of the quality of ND life, proposed date because it wouldn't 


Observer 
saying, ",It (overcrowding) is give them enough time to find a unbearable! We do not want to place to live. continue packing them in.'' Gorski 
Fr. Gregory Green, assistant to also questioned why the University the vice-president for Student 
doesn't place as much emphasis on Affairs, also objected to this date. residential quality as it does on He explained that the policy of academic quality. 
Student Affairs is to notify those Ellen Dorney, Badin hall presi­chosen as RAs before housing 
dent, agreed with Gorski and contracts have to be turned in while pointed out some of the specific expressing concern for those cut in
~ ~ 
problems, such as the overcrowd­the RA selection process. Green ing situation at the dining halls and made it clear that he wants those 
the classrooms. students to have an equal chance overcrowding doesn't concern just for on-campus housing if a lottery beds. It affects every aspect of the results. 
' •. "The solution to 
students' lives," she said. After much discussion and no Andy McKenna, Student Body agreement about housing contract president, commented, ''The date changes, the CLC tables the feeling of the CLC concerning the 
issue until its next meeting on Nov. severity of the problem is unques­
27. tionable. What the CLC wants is a 
Throughout the discussion of housing contracts and RAdefinitive answer by the Adminis­

tration of: (1) will something be [continued on page 3]Meeting in Grace Hall, the Campus Life Council subcommittee on overcrowding presented a 13-point proposal concerning ND on-campus overcrowding. [photo by Ken McAlpine] 
Timothy Leary prophesizes 
by Mark Rust a month," Leary told the audience. so they climbed the trees and Senior Staff Reporter "Personally, I double mine three or evolved into birds." He also said four times a month. Secondly, we that the Irish showed strong
a must tap everyone's nervous impulse to intellectually evolve 

Timothy Leary, counter-culture system." when the Dutch and British victi­figure in the-60s and self­The nervous system, according mized their land "and they had the proclaimed agent of future change, to Leary's plan for understanding good sense to get out." told a Washington hall audience of He added that, because of this approximately 600 students and "selection process," there are no faculty last night that "the unbro­intelligent people left in Ireland. 
'..Coutttelt -cuQtulte 

ken trajectory of evolutionary The second half of Leary's talk activity demands that we grow was filled with a slide show that
~tgulte ttt '60'g •• ' 

faster, get higher, and many of us presented his image of the future ­are going to move right up and out "High Orbital Mini Earths from this planet." the evolutionary process: is central (HOMEs)." The ROMEs, Leary 
Leary told his audience that to understanding ''the real said, would come as the result of a "many of you are clearly not evolution --the evolution of people so highly evolved that ''they terrestrials" and reminded them intelligence." recognize the swarming indicators that "you can only go as far out as "There are different type.s of --this world is too crowded and that you have gone in." nervous systems. Some of you here tells us to go up to space." 
His speech, a two hour and fifty tonight have nervous systems that Leary explained that once one 
minute metaphoric monologue on won't come off the assembly line reaches adulthood, one no longer his personal vision of evolution, until the 21st or 22nd century," can gather genetic information. He featured a 20 minute slide show Leary said. concluded that "the longer you with frequent interruptions by The evolutionary process postpone adulthood, the more "Zach;-'' his 5-year-old godchild, involves younger nervous systems information you accumulate, the who was given freedom to roam the rejecting the world of the adult more information is passed on to ' stage during the lecture. nervous systems, Leary said. He the DNA, then the RNA, and only 
Leary spun a theory of evolution­attempted to trace the history of then can evolutionary information ary change that began with evolution by placing importance on be passed down through the fallo­"organisms and amoebas" and "the genetic impulse in the pian tubes so that personal and ended with a look into "the nervous system that rejects the two species growth can take place." future." According to Leary, the main factors that inhibit growth -­"Egg wisdom is the direction function of an "intelligence pollution and overpopulation." that propels us through the space agent," a term he used to descrobe Leary gave his audience histori­time dimension," he said. "From himself, is two-fold. cal examples that included dino­now on it is up to the woman. It is 
"First, an intelligence agent must saurs who "didn't want to sink in the female egg wisdom that will double his intelligence at least once the quicksand with their parents, decide future evolution." 



2 the observer 
,_News Briefs ____.......,. 

I===========World 
Workers find remains 
CAIRO* E&YIJt [API • Workers renovating an ancient Cliristian monastery in the desert north of Cairo discovered a coffin that church officials say may contain the remains of John the Baptist, the holy man who according to Christian belief baptized Jesus Christ. Bishop Samuel, an official of the Coptic Christian Church said, "What leads the priests to think it is John the Baptist is a reference in church manuscripts which says he was buried 18 feet from the altar." A spokesman at the Vatican said he was unaware of the discovery. 
I 

I===========National 



Leaders delay ·treaty 
WASHINGTON [API · President Carter called both the Egyptians and leraelis \stubborn yesterday in an assessment of current negotiations for a Mideast peace treaty. "I wouldn't want to start saying who is being more stubborn," Carter said in an interview with the Public Boardcasting System. "I think there is adequate stubborness to be allotted to both sides." Carter also said agreement on a final treaty has been delayed because both sides have "demanded additional assurances far above and beyond what Camp David said specifically." 
Skid Row killings continue 
WS ANGELES [API ·The bodies of the seventh and eighth Skid Row stabbing victims within three weeks were found yesterday, and police circulated a drawing of a pigeon-toed man they said was wanted for questioning. All eight\tvictims were inhabitants of the downtown Skid Row area, many of whom sleep outdoors in alleys or on the sidewalks. No motive was known for any of the attacks. 

Civil De_fense plan outlined 
WASHINGTON [API • The Carter administration said ,yesterday that more than half of all Americans would die in a nuclear war, many because of outdated fallout shelters, and approved a plan to save up to ,146 million people by large scale\evacuation of urban centers. The United States currently spends 590 million a year on civil defense. U.S. civil defense director 'flardyl Tirana said a recent CIA report estimated it would cost 52 billion annually to duplicate the current Russian plans for evacuation of major cities. 

Tanker sinks .fishing boat 
NEW ORLEANS [API • A survivor said yesterday that a tanker collided with a fishing boat in the Gulf of Mexico, stopped about a mile away, and then went on into the night • leaving the boat sinking and five fishermen in the water. Two crewmen were rescued but three of them drowned. A distress signal just before the boat sank said (the tanker was Japanese, but did not name it. The Coast Guard recovered the bodies but saidIidentitites were not confirmed. Whether the tankermen realized they had hit the 80-foot shrimper Joni Rene was not known, although one survivor insisted they did. 

Weather 

Partly cloudy and cooler today Iwith highs in the low to mid 50s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight with lows in the low to mid 30s . Increasing cloudiness and cold tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 40s. 

~On Campus Today _ _____. 
10am lecture, "scientific predictions and visions of the future," mihailo markovic, univ. of belgrade, spon. by phil. dept., lib. lounge ' 
7 pm presentation, leo burnett co., spon. by placement bureau, cce aud. 
7pm course, "intro. to fortran," 115 math bldg. 
7,9,11 pm film, "easy rider," eng. aud. $1 
7:30pm lecture, "the star-making machine · mastering the media," henry edwards, rock critic & film writer, lib. aud. & lounge 
7:30pm lecture, "don't cry! it's only a movie," allen sharp, freelance hollywood screenwriter, spon. by nd/smc speech & drama dept., wash. hall 
7:30pm slide program, 1978 summer programs to london & rome, pres. by dr. black, 232 moreau, smc 
12 am wsnd album hr., "you should have been there," by jimmy buffet, 640 am 
Hunger Coalition sponsors fast 
The World Hunger Coalition is 
sponsoring a "Fast for a World 
Harvest" to begin after dinner 
tomorrow and continue until dinner 
on Tlrursday. The fast is strictly 
voluntary in nature and is not in 
conjunction with the dining halls. 
Signups for the fast will take place during dinner today at the Saint Mary's dining hall only since the regular Notre Dame fast day is Wedpesday. 
SG requests Mardi Gras booth designs 
All Mardi Gras booth ch,airmen are reminded that booth designs shouid be turned in by 5 p.m. on Thursday. Designs can be dropped off in the Mardi Gras mailbox located in the Student Government Office or in Rm. 335 of Alumni. 
· · Any booth chairmen who are 
having problems are asked to 
contact Bob Morin at 1209. 
*The Observer 
Timothy Leary Night · Night Intelligence Agent: Frank Kebe Assistant Night Intelligence Agent: H. -Devitt Organisms and Amoebas: John Smith, Dave Brosh Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills (is doubling her intell­igence this month) Features Layout: courtesy of your convival "Cosmo" Sports Layout: Mark (clearly not a terrestial) Perry 
HOMEs:  Mardi  Nevin,  Tom  
Pipp,  Rosie  Rodgers,  Pete  
McFadden  
Into  egg  wisdom:  me  

DNA: John Ferroli RNAs: Debbie Dahrling, John McGrath Evolved into birds: Dave Wood, Bob Rudy Photographer: Ken (genetic impulse) McAlpine 
The Observer Is published Mon. day throu1h Friday except durlnl eum and vaatlon periods. T~e Observer It published by the students of Notre Dame and S.int Mary's Coli•••· Subscriptions may be purdlned for UO per y..r cs to per semester! from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. SttCOnd ctau postqe paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. The Obaerver is a member of the Associated Press. All repro. ductlon rllhts ap reaerved.  
need posters in a hurry? ! , .~~ "''·'' ·.:-caul • • !•nsly·pr•nls the w1a ofthe printingbiz! 1 00 -11. x17 .Posters only $10.00 203 n. main wl)fown SoBend 289-697  

air Styling for men and women wllo like to look theirbest... 277•0734 'h mile north of campus, (U.S. 1 31 N) Across from Randall's . Inn  



Troops enfof(:e curlew 



Iranian situation stabilizes 
TEHRAN, Iran AP]-Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi arpeared yesterday to have weathered the threat to his 37-year reign caused by weeks of anti-government demonstrations and a Clippling strike aimed at cutting Iran's lifeblood, its flow of oil. ' 
Tehran remained calm yesterday under the watch of heavily armed troops in key districts of the city and a strictly enforced dusk-to­dawn curfew. 
Most shops and business•!S were open and government agencies and public utilities operated nol'mally. 
Foreign workers and army per­sonnel have taken over the <>il fields under the watch of several thou­sand troops armed with tnks and machine guns. Production has been brought up from a low of 950,000 barrels a day to 2. 7 million, state oil industry officials said. 
Normal production bef,>re the 37,000 Italian oil workers walked off the jbb Oct. 31 to demand higher pay and to join the anti­government movement wa > 6 mil­lion barrels a day. 
The position of the military government also was bolstered by the failure of a one-day general strike called in Tehran by the popular Moslem leader, Ayatullah Khomaini, in exile in Pari~. 
In Washington, a State Depart­ment spokesman refrainf:d from criticizing the shah for the weekend arrest of his opposition political leader, Karim Sanjaby, saying the "emergency situation" in Iran is "fully apparent." 
In the provinces, however, the official Pars news agency reported 
SG sponsc~rs paper dri,·e 
A newspaper recycling drive, sponsored by the Student Govern­ment, begins today and wil con­tinue through Thursday. Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff are asked to contribute newspa­pers. Profits from the drive will be given to the Office of Volunteer Services. 
The newspapers will be collected in the residence halls or they mav be taken to a bin located in the C-3 parking lot west of the stadium. Magazines cannot be recycled. 

ARTS &LETTERS BUSINESS SOCIETY sponsors 
CATERPILLAR CORP. LECTURE concerning JOB OPPORTUNITIES featured in Hayes· Healy Auditorium on Tues., Nov. 14, at 
6:30 pm. 30 minutes of the lecture will be followed by a question and answer period. Guest speakers include three former ND graduates-Mr. Jerry Klise, Mr. Michael Dentino, and Mr. Bill Fallon. 
Open to all colleges, all majors, and all years. 
20 persons killed in anti-govern­ment clashes with troops over the weekend. 
In the southern oilfields, most of the workers who struck continued to defy a government order to ~;eturn to work in spite of the warning that they would be arrest·· ed or fired. 
But the state-run National Iranian Oil Co. said yesterday that some workers had returned to their jobs at the Abadan refinery, the world's largest refinery complex. 
U.S. and British executives ex­pressed doubts they would be able to push production above 3 million barrels a day-half the normal daily 
production. Iran is the world's , ployees and had to be escorted second largest exported of crude oil from the premises by ·police. 
CLC presents proposal 
[continued from page 1] selection;the question of a possible lottery continually recurred. While. Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of Keenan, stated, "There probably won't be a need for a lottery," Edmund Price, director of Housing, stated, "The halls are packed. I see no reason, to the best of my knowledge, why next year won't be as bad as this year, if not worse." 
Price later passed out a lottery proposal, but the CLC voted not to consider it at the meeting. 
Jos.e Marerro, Pangborn presi­dent, said, ''I feel that the Univer­sity is only playing word games with us. I hope I am wrong, but I feel they've already decided that there will be a lottery." 
According to Mike Roonan, Student Body vice president, part of the problem is that the Class of 1980 did not follow the previous trends of moving off campus. 
"Overcrowding for next year," Roohan siad, "depends on whether this class reverses the trend next year. he also pointed out that this year's senior class is smaller than 


Males assault Tennessean 
A young Tennessee man was assaulted in the courtyard between Dillon and Alumni Halls late Friday night by five white males that he said appeared to be Notre Dame students. 
In a report filed with Security, Jim Morrison, who was visiting the University for the ND-Tennessee football game, stated that he was walking with two Saint Mary's students when five men, who appeared to have been drinking, 

_ called the girls vulgar names. According to Morrison, he replied to the men and then they "jumped" him. 
Morrison went into Dillon Hall seeking help, and was assisted by some residents. Jeff Kohler, the RA on duty, explained that Morri­son did not want to go to a hospital, so he and other· residents helped Morrison "clean up" and gave him some ice for his nose, which "appeared puffy." 
After Morrison left Dillon, Koh­ler called Security to inform them of the incident. Kohler Said Security called him back "about 10 and is a major supplier to Western Europe, South Africa and Israel. 
In the holy city of Qum, about 100 miles south of Tehran, demon­strators led by Moslem priests marched peacefully through the streets Sunday. 
The town's military commander, Gen. Kamal Nazami, ordered all schools closed for a week to head off further protests. 
More conservative Moslems are one of the main groups that have called for the shah's removal. 
In Tehran, 200 U.S.technicians employed by American Bell Inter­national, Inc., were reportedly threatened by striking Iranian em­
last year's, adding, "This intensi­fies the problem." 
Of the 10 points that were discussed last night, only one was rejected. This point concerned the re-evaluation of RA room assign­ments. 

The CLC unanimously passed seven points of the subcommittee's proposal: (1) establish an off­campus council; (2) discuss the possibility of en'iollment cutback with the Office of the Provost; (3) set up a committee to insure student-hall staff input; (4) en­courage an official inquiry concern-­ing the conversion of Moreau Seminary, St. Joseph, Bronson and Columba alls into residence halls; 
(5) investigate the conversion of the basement ro_orns of Lewis Hall and the dining room of Holy Cross Hall into residence rooms; (6) investi­gate converting empty staff rooms into undergraduate suites; and (7) consider junior RA applicants on a priority basis. 
Parietals and the proposal for a record store were not discussed at the meeting. 
minutes Later'' to report that they had picked UP' Morrison. 
Security took information from Morrison for a report and released him. Joe Wall, director of Security, stated that Morrison had a cut over his eye that appeared to be from a ring, but refused medical treat­ment. 
Security investigated the inci­dent on Saturday, Wall stated. He said Security does not know if the men who had attacked Morrison were Notre Dame students. 
ND-SMC 


Senior Trip lnformatiof1 Night Tonight 7:30pm in 
O'Laughlin Auditorium -mandatory 
trip T-shirt orders will be taken 
I 

shirts *3.50 
(must bring ·money to meeting) 


The Commons . 
Mexican Food is our specialty Every Wednesday 6·10 Also, on weekends: 
*  Pizza  shrimp*  
*  fish  french fries*  
*  chicken  onion. rings*  

Lunches Daily 
carry out: Beer-Wine-Liquor located ·at Corby and Eddy· 
~---··-·······---------------------------·---· 
I 

·~  I  
- I I I  
micfiael &co. 'Hair Concepts  I I I .I IJ  
'Hair designs for Men & Women,  
with the emphasis on Easy Care'  
open late tues.·thurs. 8pm  
North  Y2  ~ile east of notre dame  
18381 Edison at lnd 23  
272·7222  
south  2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood  
291·1001  
m4Ster charge  visa  


~---~-----------~------------------..~ 
. . . . 
... ~ ~ ..._ . '...._.-'....'. ' ..._. .. . --. ~~-~-..._ ~ .. ····~-~I 




DECISION NEEDED 
*The Observer 
The problem of overcrowding continues to be a threat for the 1979-80 school year. Whether or not a solution can be found, the University must make a decision and Inform students If housing Is available. The Campus Ufe Council Is delaying that decision by Issuing a time-consuming proposal for Investigation. This proposal Ignores the opinion of Edmund Price, Director of University Housing and refuses to consider the possibility of a lottery. he CLC proposal Is unrealistic. 
The proposal submitted by the CLC committee calls· for Investigation Into several solutions to the housing problem. The first Is the establishment of an off-campus council to Investigate the problems of off-campus living. These problems are obvious, and Investigation will only take time. Students choose to remain on cafr4)us because of the lack of adequate housing close to cafr4)us, the lack of transportation, the lack of security, and the Increasing cost of living. These 
problems  can  be  solved  only  with  the  
commlttment  of  University  funds  and  
personnel  to lfr4)rove transportation  and  

security. The University has little or no control over the amount of housing and the cost of living. 
The second solution Is a suggested "dlsrusslon" of an enrollment cutback with the Office of the Provost. Thorough dlsrusslon of such a matter would un­
Idea. If Mr. Price, whose sole concern Is 
housing, has found this solution to be 
inadequate, the CLC is wasting time and 
effort in re-Investigation. 

The C LC proposal does not mention the conversion of campus graduate housing to undergraduate housing, a solution which would displease many graduate students. But, the question Is not one of pleasing: it is one of need. In keeping with "In loco parenteis" the University must decide between parenting undergraduate or graduate students first. This question of priorities, In our opinon, is easily decided. Undergraduates should be given prefer­ence in available campus housing. 
Mr. Price has admitted there Is a good possibility that next year overcrowding may be as bad, if not worse, than this year. By submitting a proposal on lottery systems now, before there Is an admitted need for one, he is being fair to the students. He Is attempting to eliminate panic and confusion caused by a situation he Is not responsible for. Mr. Price Is being realistic. 
The idea of a lottery angers many students. But, If a lottery were held before Christmas on condition It would be used only If necessary, the problem might be solved. Many juniors might decide not to walt for a lottery and plan to move off-campus of their own free will, taking friends with them. This would create 
doubtedly take more time than allowable to empty spaces and the need for any
affect the overcrowding for next August. immediate solution might dissolve. 
Even If the University cut back Its Juniors could also use the semester break 
enrollment, the problem would not be to plan their housing and transportation
solved. While more rooms would be needs. In either case, they would have 
available for next year, what will happen enough time to decide between taking a 
the year after? More rooms may mandate chance on campus, and moving off­
more reductions. These reductions repre­campus. Furthermore, they would have 
sent loss In revenue needed to Improve more time to find off-campus housing. 
housing. The University owes students adequate
The third solution Is the conversion of housing. If the University cannot provide
existing buildings such as Moreau Semi­this housing, It must allow time for the 
nary, Bronson Hall, Columba Hall, and St. students to find adequate housing on their 
Joseph Hall. Price has already Investi­own. The CLC's proposal is delaying the 
gated these possibilities and finds them University's decision and taking away
Inadequate. Yet the CLC declines to listen valuable time from the students. They 
to Mr. Price and chooses to pursue their should propose action, not invesigation. 
art buchwald================= 
The difference between classes 
WASHINGTON--The airlines are do more than just seat the discount plane. They may not be used untiltrying to make it up to people who people in the back of the plane to you pay a surcharge of $40.
have to pay more for flying in coach placate the people who pay full "Once we are in the air we willthan those who fly on special thrift fare. Stronger measures must be be serving a delicious meal to rates. taken. 
passengers up front, consisting ofA barrage of newspaper, maga­I foresee in the not too distant vichyssoise, roast duckling withzine and TV commercials are now future that, after the coach passen­orange sauce, wild rice with rai­informing us that the airlines really ger has been seated in the middle sins, and a Chateau Mouton Roths­"revere" their "full-fare" passen­of the plane, the discount passen­child, 1969. As for you riffraff back gers, and are making sure they get gers will be loaded on board. in leg here, we will pass around thistreated better than those on dis­irons. They will be driven' to the wooden bucket of watery gruel,count fares. back of the aircraft by a giant which the trusty will put in yourFor one thing, the people who black-bearded man who is stripped slop bowls. 
~ay full coach fare will be seated in to the waist and cracking ·a long "Each passenger will be offered the middle of the plane just behind whip. 
a choice of coffee, tea or milk. If hethose in first class. The discount Once in the back, they will be doesn't gue~s the right one, he will ·passengers will be placed in the shoved down on wooden slats and be hung by his thumbs from the rear of the craft where no one can chained to the bulkhead. The man luggage rack. One more thing, if see them. with the beard will be their any of you are planning to escapeCoach passengers will have their steward. He will walk up and down into coach class-forget it. 
own check-in lines and presumable the thrift section aisle shouting, "This 747 has a snake-filledfirst crack at the plane's free "All right, you scurvy. There will moat separating the cagins."
magazines. be absolute silence in this section "Alf right, you miserableThe reason for the sudden deci­of the plane. Anyone who opens wretches. We're ready for takeoff. 
sion to advertise the advantages of his mouth will get a taste of the Are there any questions?"
full fare, as opposed to discount, is whip on his worthless tourist back. 
"Sir, what is the movie playingthat the airlines have had a "Now this is the drill. Because today?"
backlash from businessmen who we are flying over water part of the CRACKKKKKKK! "Take thattravel all the time and feel they're time, pay attention to these safety you penny-pinching cur. No one isbeing taken for a ride. No one likes precautions. In case of the unlikely entitled to a movie in discountto sit next to a person who has paid event of an emergency, a saw will class. Where the hell do you think30 to 40 percent less to go to the be lowered from above so that you you are--on some kind of va­same place and arrive at the same can file off your leg irons and the cation?"
time. chains on your wrists. There are I believe the ~~~~!.!!;~~~~~~~exits in the front of the 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor~ Editor Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin 
Production ManagerJohn Tucker Business ManagerBob Rudy Advertising Manager 
Tuesday, November 14, 1978 

==P.O. Box Q== 
with their actions? We thoughtWhy? that Notre Dame and St. Mary's were supposed to be "sister" Dear Editor: schools. If indeed we are, is that 
Last week the Notre 'Dame Wo­any way for St. Mary's to treat her men's Volleyball Club was advised "sister" school? We were under to withdraw from the District the impression that we were to help Volleyball Tournament because of one another. This tournament practicing and more importantly meant a lot to those of us who are recruiting violations under the working toward eventual varsity AlAW. The team was scrimma­status. We can only say two things ging against some high school to you, St. Mary's: First, "Why?" volleyball players from the South and second, "Thanks." Bend area, which unknown to us, 
Beth Laroccaviolated AlAW rules. How did we Carmetta Walker come to be "enlightened"? A Sheila Seufert "little birdie" (in the form of a Debbie Romoletter) from St. Mary's College Jocely Joiner brought us up to J ate. The letter Teresa Dayadvised us to get in touch with the Cheryl ErtletAIAW before the tournament (oinly Barb Walker three days away). Late Thursday Sue Fearing night we received word: With­Sandra Rueschhoff 
draw, or action may be taken against other teams from Notre Dame, i.e., tennis and field hockey. 
We are not questioning the fact A disappointmentthat we broke AlA W rules. We are questioning the means by which we were informed. St. Mary's letter Dear Editor: implied that if we did not bring it 
Last Thursday night, I attended up to the AlAW, they would. We the Steve Martin Show. He is adid not break the rules intention­funny man. The audience, madeally--we were only trying to scrim­up mostly of students and a smallermage and we don't always have percentage of children and parents, enough for two teams. 
delighted in his antics. HalfwayWe acknowledge our ignorance of through his performance, Stevethe AlA W rules. Our ignorance Martin introduced
can be attributed to our club sport some material 
whose basic thrust was the sugges­status and our coach's lack of tion that most women were sexualaffiliation with the ND Women's objects. The material was accom­Athletic Program. We are self-· panied by Martin's own graphicorganized, provide our own coach­use of audio-visual aids. Heing, and due to limited funds we concluded this segment of hismust personally supplement it. 
Thus the limitations we experience 
presentation by indicating that one as a club sport make the recruiting 
of his recent dates provided the accusation ludicrous. most satisfying fulfillment of his Couldn't St. Mary's just have told sexual drive that he had thusfar us that we were breaking the rules? experienced. His words were 
. We would have gladly discontinued different from those I just used. practicing with the high school It was disappointing to hear in an players. Did the fact that we drew otherwise entertaining and laugh­St. Mary's in the first round of the filled evening the old and demean­tournament have anything to do ing references to women as things, not persons. We have a way still to 
go before the full personhood of women is affirmed. That affirma­tion can, with surprising swiftness, 
IF YOt/'IJ RATHER 

be silenced in a barrage of sexual 
8E ALIJNe, 5/R, 
put-downs.

JU5T54Y 50. HIJH~ 
I am taking it for granted that the 
I o 
# 
large and responsive audience that greeted this gifted comedian never­theless felt this segment of his show was inappropriate on two 
counts: the sizeable number of children in attendance, and the environs of a great university that has something very different to say about the dignity of all women. 
Edmund M. O'Brien 
,! ;:, :a...
.,_ 
»
...
... 
~ 
~ 
::J 
~ 
m 
en 
w 
8 z 
YEAH. ITS IN BACX Off'OOAL 
23. 
I 
THANK Yal. 
I 


My sides hurt, my head throbbed, and I was still laughing when I went to bed last Thursday night. Steve Martin had just finished performing befot e a full house at the ACC. Martin, who i> on a two week promotion tour for his ne'-'' album, ''A Wild and Crazy Guy", has, by way of numerous "Tonight Show" and "NBC Saturday Night" appearances OV(:r the past few years, come to be recognized as one of the country's foremost comic:;..His zany style sold over a million copies •>f his first album, "Let's Get Small." Tl: is was the first comedy album ever to acliieve this status. And now he might be re~ody to repeat this feat. Why? Because he i:: just as funny as ever. Thursday night was proof. 
Hefore Steve ever fou 11l the stage the crowd was already laughing at his film short, "The Absent-minded Waiter", star­ring Martin and featurint Buck Henry and Terri Garr. Then a roar went up among the fans as the current king or comedy stepped onto the stage. He was not flashy, clad in a traditional white suit a1id black tie; he looked as though he wet e returning from Fantasy Island, but the fantasy was only beginning. Describing what happnened is difficult since I was always in hysterics. I do recall many of Mart'n's classic gags, including "Happy Feet", which carried him away rather whimsically in the early portion of the show, and his famous "Grandmother's Song". 


There was a new sketc 1 in which Martin 
'Oon ~j1ovann1' -­r~~R rRom sattsrytnG 
When a professional opera company  and good humor brightened the evening.  
comes to town, it is an occasion for  Nicholas Karousatos was a fine, bumbling  
celebration. Performar.ces such as that  Masetto, with enough Richard Dreyfuss to  
mounted by Boris Gl)ldovsky's Opera  charm to smooth the edges of his rustic  
Theater last W ednesda) evening at Saint  exterior. Zerlina, the country wench, both  
Mary's College, serve to introduce the  beguiled and beguiling, was sung musi­ 
operatic medium in a fiiendly, accessible  cally and convincingly by Pamela Hinch­ 
way to those for whl)m it is a new  man, whose diction, it should be noted, was  
experience. Such p~rformances also  consistently the most intelligible. Karous­ 
refresh the local musk scene for those  atos also performed the Commendatore in  
accustomed to travellillg to Chicago or  the first scene duel; the marble guest was  
Bloomington to see professonal opera. In  sung impressively by Kenneth Bell. A  
this instance, it was Mozart's Don Gio­ small chorus, comprised of singers who  
vanni, a dramatic depktion of the tradi­ alternate as principals, completed the  
tional morality tale, in which Don Juan,  company.  
womanizer extraordinalre and desecrater  No one who attends Don Giovanni really  
of the dead, is punished for his offenses to  wonders whether the villain-hero will be  
.social and cosmic order::.  punished, but nearly everyone waits-in  
With a touring company there are  suspense to see just how the punishment  
compromises, but there 1re also compensa­ will be presented. Burt's Giovanni  
tions. The singers, generally unknown, are  descended to hell with distinction. It was  
usually young, talented, attractive, and  an imposing scene, wherein the presence  
appealing. Such was the case. The  of the animate statue transformed the  
costumes were lavish, a:1d the unit set was  warmth and sumptuousnessof Giovanni's  
designed to function wei] in many guises.  palace into the flames of the underworld.  
The lighting had its problems, understand­ It was clear, in this production, that the  
ably, since no one design works flawlessy  stone guest is not merely an executor of  
in every hall. (Zerlina's "Vedrai carino" in  vengeance. He comes, in fact, to offer tlle  
Act 2, for example, wa:; sung virtually in  rake his last opportunity to repent.  
the dark while most of the set was well  Giovanni declines, as he previously had  
lighted.) Such problems are to be  declined such offers from Leporello, his  
expected. More serious, however, was a  better self, and from Elvira, who aspired to  
general lethargy which pervaded the entire  be his Beatrice. This Giovanni is not  
production. On tour, every night is opening  dragged down to the flames in tlle icy grip  
night, no matter how many shows have  of the shade, but witll hands free, in pain,  
gone before, no matter how grueling the  he wills his own descent.  
schedule is. The audif nee in O'Laughlin  Goldovsky chose to omit the epilog, in  
Auditorium never reall) felt the sparkle to  keeping with tlle practice of the Viennese  
which they were entitled.  premiere in 1788. On tllat occasion, tile  
Under the baton of Arturo Delmoni, the  omission was to facilitate several extra  
orchestra's overture Iacl>ed excitement and  arias and scenes which rarely appear in  
urgency, and this Jackluster plagued too 1much of the evening. ln crucial dramatic  modern versions. The omission of the epilog has been repeated and variously  
moments, tlleatrics alone cannot generate  .  justified in many subsequent productions,  
tlle required intensit;r, and orchestral  mostly European ones, including that  
support is essential. Titere was a frequent  conducted by Mahler in 1888. But to bring  
Jack of agreement as to tempi, and the  down the final curtain on this other-worldly  
ensembles suffered, especially in the first  scene is to assert tllat tlle fall of the  
act.  profligate is interesting and significant  
The Da Ponte libretl:o was sung in the  only in terms of tlle supernatural transla­ 
English translation of Ruth and Thomas  tion which has transpired. Mozart and Da  
Martin, a fact general!) appreciated by tlle  Ponte provided an epilog, not to explain  
audience, which was alert and responsive.  the moral of the story, for that would be  
Candace Goetz, as .!lnna, and Robert  tiresomely didactic, but to allow the  
Johnson as Ottavio, looked and acted  mortal, social elements, the other charac­ 
appropriately haughty and aristocratic,  ters, a chance to participate in the  
annough neither was vocally distin­ denouement, by affirming its justice and  
guished. Johnsor;c; te1or was promising,  by reordering their own lives in light of that  
but he seemed to hold back, even in "ll mio  affirmation.  
tesoro," his only real musical opportunity  The final sextet, which was missing  
(since "Dalla sua pace ' was cut from the  Wednesday night, allows the audience to  
first act). Michael Burt was a perfunctory  participate in that reordering as well, and  
Giovanni, neither so t:vil that one could  facilitates tlleir transition back into the  
relish his doom, nor so eharismatic that one  everyday world from which the overture  
might hope for a different ending. Daisy  initially transported them. The shift from  
!llewman handled the hysterical passage  the flames of hell to the curtain calls is too  
work of Donna Elvira with assurance.  abrupt without the epilog, ans so is the  
By and large, however, the lower classes provided the vitality that was otherwise  shift from the fantastic world of tlle stage to the theater lobby and the parking lot.  
absent. Leporello, Giovanni's valet, apologist, and sometime conscience, was  Linda C. Ferguson Assistant Professor  
played by Richard Cri!:t, whose rich bass  General Program of Liberal Studies  

portrayed himself as a broken down wino some ten years · from now. Martin masterfully interwove the pathetic with the ludicrous to wrench whoops and guffaws from the audience. Those who witnessed this routine, as well as those who witnessed it second hand, will attest to the fact that it is destined to be a classic. Steve--1 call him Steve--was quick to show compassion for the unfortunates with lousy seats. After referring to them as "poor" and suckers, he tried to gain their favor by performing, just for them, his "Vanishing Dime Trick". It was all in fun, however, and it gave those people without the good view the personal attention that made the concert worth the price. It is nevertheless unfortunate that many people did have a poor view, since Martin is a visual comic. His facial expressions and outlandish antics, not to mention the countless sightgags, contribute much to his "wild and crazy" style. In the day of the cool, intellectual comedian, Martin brings back many more simple and visual tactics characteristic of old vaudevillian funny­men---and he does so with a finesse unrivaled by modern jesters. 
This then leads us to the question that the man even asks of himself: What makes Steve Martin so funny? Perhaps fellow comic Steve Allen was correct in saying that Martin "imitates jerks". This is rather evident if we examine the ''wild and crazy guy" or Steve-Martin-the-magician or Steve Martin as a cat owner or what have you. 
Perhaps the primary things that makes him funny is simply that he makes us laugh. He stood before us and brought balloons to life; his invention of a "fart zone" above the ozone layer rewrote the science textbooks and gave conservation­ists a new reason to save the ozone; he alerted us that Gay Lib ws infiltrated with 
homosexuals; and he did what a comic is 
supposed to do: he showed us tlle truth. (This can be philosophically· prove by defining man as the risible being and pointing out that each time we laugh we reassert our humanity, but it's all too boring to go into at this time.) 
Martin was good enough to warrant two encores, during the first he sang his pop musical hit, "King Tut", which left the throngs cheering for more. The second encore was a couple of farewell gags designed to get that proverbial ball rolling as strong as ever so that Martin would, as Woody Allen requires of all good entertain­ers, "end like a house afire ... 
No review of this concert would be complete without the mention of Martin's warm-up man, folksinger Steve Goodman. Goodman bopped onto the stage to the tune of "Red Robin", then cracked up the audience with ''The Twentieth Century Is Almost Over" which set the pace for the foot-stomping fun to follow. Goodman is the epitome of a good entertainer. His stage presence, his presentation and his musical prowess brought the audience to its feet. He was the powerful jab of Martin's billiantly engineered one-two punch. Goodman staggered them so Martin could put them away. Steve Martin would do well to keep Goodman as his warmup act, but it may not be long before Goodman starts touring on his own. 
The best way to sum up the performance is: Steve Martin is funny. What more can I say? Although he did not use a lot of his album material, that material was a good indication of the side-splitting humor in store for the listener. I have heard but one si?e of the new record and yet I can say without a doubt that the one side alone is well worth the investment. For those of you who thoughtthat Steve Martin was just beginning to roll last Thursday night, "AWild and Crazy Guy" might be just what you need to satisfy your pangs of 
·humor. Pat Hymes 

....'.' .·.·..·}. 
······~..___..____.._.~ 
--------------------~-------------------­
the observer 

..,. ................ 

Carter averts Egyptian walk-out 

MANDATORY MEETING FOR MEMBERS OF THE



observer 

ADVERTISING LAYOUT STAFF ON TUESDAY AT 7:00 
!)REDKEN 
Hours Tues 
C•ll today lor an appointment 


234-6767 

(AP) -By telephone and in meetings on two continents, President Carter and his diplomats sought yesterday to head off a breakdown in the Egyptian-Israeli peace talks. Egypt's Anwar Sadat reportedly considered but then dropped the idea of calling his negotiators home from Washington. 
Egyptian Prime Minister. Mustapha Khaiil said, however, that the talks were going "not badly." 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin, meanwhile, arrived back in Israel after a U.S.-Canadian tour and s:lid his government would be reviewing American and Egyptian proposals for resolving the central dispute in the negotiations-­whether and how to link an Egyptian-Israeli treaty to a solution of the Palestinian issue. 
Begin would not reveal to repor­ters at Ben-Gurion Airport what he would ,recommend when he con­venes his Cabinet later this week to discuss the status of the peace talks. 
"We are listening to all view­points,'' he said. 
He gave no details of what he called a "long and serious meet­ing" with Secretary of State Cyurus 
R. Vance. in New York Sunday night 
At that meeting, Vance presented an American proposal for settling 
the "linkage" question. 

In Egypt, President Sadat and his advisers met in the Suez Canal city of Ismailia and a top Egyptian source who asked not to be identified said there was "bad news" and the recall of the 
Farley blood drive sign-up begins 
Residents of Farley Hall are asked to volunteer to give blood. The sign-ups are taking place this week. For further information, contact Maura Sendelbach (6730). 
Those in Keenan and Morrissey halls who signed up are reminded to give blood this week. Tl;lank you for your support. 

Yesterday's answers 

the student union cultutal atts commission ptoudly ptesents 



THURBER II 
wednesday,november15 washington hall admission Sl.OO 8p.m. 

delegation from Washington was "possible." 
But Egyptian Prime Minister Khalil later denied Cairo was summoning its negotiators home, though official Cairo radio said one member of the team, acting Foreign Minister Butros Ghali, would return to Cairo tomorrow for consultations. 
Khalil said Sadat had spoken with Carter by telephone for the second time in two days. and Vice President Hosny Mubarak telephoned the head of Egypt's Washington delegation, Lt. Gen. Kamal Hassan Ali. Sadat also met 
with U.S.  Ambassador  Hermann  
Eilts.  
If.  as  reported,  Sadat  had  

thought about recalling his team from Washingon, it was not known what caused him to drop the idea. 
The top two members of the Israeli delegation, ~oreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Defense Minister Ezer Weizman, are to return to Jerusalem for a scheduled Thursday session of the Is'raeli Cabinet that will conduct a full-scale review of the talks and the options on the linkage issue. 
In Washington, yesterday's peace talks schedule called only for a meeting between special U.S. Mideast envoy Alfed L. Atherton and Egyptian negotiators. 
In ~their meeting with Eilts, Egyptian officials explained their viewpoint on the necessity for a link between the bilateral treaty and progress on the Palestinian issue, Cairo radio said. 
The Israelis have balked at including a firm link in the peace treaty, but the Egyptians have proposed tying the treaty to a specific timetable for establishing an autonomous Palestinian entity in the West Bank and Gaza. 


collegiate crossword 
46-soup 11 Capable of being
ACROSS 

47 -Abdul-Jabbar split Site for 1980 49 Secondhand mer-12 FeJIJ11es ­Olympics chandise (2 wds.) 13 As·-night 
7 Abrupt rejection 51 Miss Peach char-15 Most up-to-date 13 Pass on to another acter 19 Uncover shrewdly 
person 52 Mongol tent (2 wds.) 14 Spanish or 54 Buenos -22 Baseball's Johnny 
Portuguese 55 Surround 16 Miss Earhart, et a1.57 Component of 23 Miss Bacall 17 High-fashion dealer gasoline 25 Watch chains, 
lB Composer Ned ­
19 ward off 
20 Workshop item 
21 Attractive and 
cuddly 24 Tarnish, as a reputation 26 Exist 
~~ ~~r~~~didate, and family 30 Compass point31 Habituated 33 Optimum 34 Certifies, as a college 36 French for islands 39 Prefix for sexual 40 Viper43 Stpp 45 Norway's name for itself 

59 Tenninates a layoff 28 Passover meals 60 Moves, as a 32 Funeral h~n hairline 34 South Afr1can fox 61 Hate 35 Ballet (2 wds.)
62 Pit-removing 36 More disgusting device 37 Scholarly38 Ailment of DOWN swirrmers 
40 

1 Autobiography fonn Old ~ong, "I Love 2 Supervise 41 More placid 3 Shoe parts 42 Tickets 4 Of the weather 44 Donkey in "Winnie­5 Eggs the-Pooh" 6 Basketball's-48 Thinks Unseld 50 Alluded to 7 Hoarfrost 53 Sheet music symbol 8 Payroll savings 56 English course, for item (2 wds,) short 9 Deposited in layers 57 Telephone-dial 10 Geller of psychic trio fanie 58 Shoe width 


FARE-DEAL 
stand by rates as low •• 
'30~ 

to Chicago 



NOTICES 

NO Legal Services-Call 283-77951.0 arn­4pm 
Planning a wedding or da~ ce? Music for that special occasion. The llennls Bamber Quartet. 272-8266. 
MORRISSEY LOA~! FUND Student loans $2Q-$150, 1 percent Inte­rest, due In 30 days. LaFortune basement. 11:30-12:30 M·F. 
Will do bachelor laundry, 1ery reasonable Close to campus. Call from 9am to 5 pm. 
234-7528. 
NEED QUALITY T'fPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Ser~ice -12 typestyles, $1 per page mi 1lmum. Call 
232-0898 ''When you want the Best.'' 
FOR RENT 

2 Br House -stove & ref. $225.00 month plus utilities and deposit. 914 N. Notre Dame Ave. 234-7670. 
LOST AND FOIJND 

FOUND: A calculatQr · by O'Shaugh­nessy Hall. Call to ide11tify. Jayne ­7961. 
LOST: HP-21 calculator in 204 O'Shag,Thurs. (11-9) Please call ·059. 
LOST: Gold Selko watc11 lost on Saint 
Mary's Campus Novemb lr 5.  If found  
please  call  Katie  41-4:'96.  Reward  
offered.  

LOST: A gold 1976 Ca1e Spring High
School class ring. Blue sapphire stone
'th ld · 1 'd c s N · 'd 1
WI go ma1 . . ame on ms1 e o 
band. Reward. Call Dan at 1864. 
Tuesday, November 14, 1978 the observer 
7 

In lecture -
Craypo examines union strength 
by Rob Powers  already have under the threat of  Piper Aircraft spokesmen were not  
Staff Reporter  plant closure or partial shutdown,  able to ~eet until two days before  
he said.  the expiration of a contract in 1969.  
''The emerging pattern in the  The arbitrary shutting down of  The  representatives  for  Piper  
American  economy  today  is  an  plants  is  becoming  increasingly  stated that there were three options  
erosion  of  union  bargaining tfrequent in the Northeast and the  for th,e union: {1)  to  accept  a  30  

strength," Charles Craypo told an 
audience  of  80  in  Hayes-Healy  
Center last night.  
Craypo,  associate  professor  of  

Economics, lectured on the "De­
cline of Union Bargaining Power." 
"The single structur~ of the union seems obsolete.in the force of multi-industry corporate structure and multi-national corporate structures," Craypo said. 
Craypo pointed to the problem of aging leadership in unions today, particularly in the AFL. '".The leaders do not demonstrate an awareness of the problems of labor unions today, and do not seem 
equipped to cope with these prob­lems," he said. The unions must affect changes C
in the labor laws, raypo said, in 
order to ''cope with technological 
.. · dh
c ange. He pomte to typeset­
ters, who are being replaced by
machines when they retire. 
Craypo stated that there are three reasons for the decline of union power: "changing corporate 
structures, an increase in imports,
and public policy in the area of labor law." 
Two indications ofthe weakening oftheunions'bargainingpowerarethe frequency of plant shutdowns 
and relocations, and the unions having to give up benefits they 

LOST: Black Totes urr brella. South ij==::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:fjCafeteria. Monday afternoon. Call Jim Don't forget the Ad Building Munch. 1627. Melvin 
FOUND: Yellow tiger kitten about 8 weeks old. Found Friday (PM) between stadium and ACC parking lot. Call 234-4692 or 232-6509. 
WANTEIJ 

Needed: Ride for two to and from St. 
Louis or Columbia MissoL ri at Thanksgiv­ing. Can leave Wednesjay afternoon. 'Caii7BBO. 
Need 4 GA Southern Call tickets. Call John at 1991. 
Desperate girl needs ri<le to Jersey or 
vicinity for Thanksiving break-call 7674. 
Part-time people needed to sell advertis­ing out of regional offices of nationwide publishing firm. Entry le1 el position. Call Mr. Ford 272-3171. 
Need ride to Minnesota fJr break. Leave anytime after noon Tuesday. Please call 8125, ask for Paula. 
Desperately need one or two Notre Dame 
season basketball tix. C.!ll 41-4487. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Su:nmer-full time. 
Berkely, CA 94704. 
Need: Ride to Buffalo, NY area for 
Turkey-Day break. Call :1ue 41-5411. 
Need ride to Pittsburg vteekend of Nov. 17th. Call 41-4721. 
Two riders need ride to or through
Albany, NY for turkey day. Split gas and driving. Stev,e 3191. 
Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. Ageneralshop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-2888. 
FOR SALE 

KNUTE ROCKNE-The Jriginal1940 Lux Radio Theater production starring Pat O'Brien and Ronald Rfagan now avail­able on tape cassettu. Relive the grandeur of Notre [1ame's greatestlegend. Send $5.98 to Little Shop on the 
Prairie, PO Box 132, Minot, N. Dakota 58701. Satisfaction gua ·anteed. 
FOR SALE: 73 Gran ··orino, good shpe, snow tires. 233-5282. 
PERSONJlLS 

Europe. S. America, Aunalia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 mcnthly, expensespaid, sightseeing. Fref info. Write International Job Cente-, Box 449o-14, 

Greg Sobkowski,Your beautiful voice iJ> only one of your many assets!  
Mandatory meeting for all advertisinglayout people on Tuesday Nov. 14th. Short meeting starting at 7:00 pm.  
Only three more days til Zelda Ray'sgrand opening. Get PSYCHED!!!  
God Bless You,Mary Pat, Pam, Jim, Mrk, Margie,Katie, all the typists, Phil, Mike, Lisa and everyone else who was somehow con-­nected with Monday's paper. The Sunday nite staff is the greatest!Thanx, Scoop  
Mikey,We never though you could make it with a "FOREIGNER!". Your loving (envious) comrades  
Rumor has it that Tom Kubus has the reddest lips in South Bend. Sure. I like the way you said that!  
If I don't get USC tix I'll sleep in the streets on break-Mick 1763.  
Mary,Now that you've attained an alternate state of consciousness through rapidconsumption of Ethanol, we're sure you can inform us of all the philosophicalinsightes you may have gained while in said state. In other words, isn't gettingblasted lots of fun? Barb, Katie, Sue, etc. Hear ADONIS interviw the superstars.His first guest will be Cheryl Ladd's clone, SCANTILY CLAD. Tune in for some scintiiating insights this Thursdaynight. 9-11 pm ONLY on WSND. Congrats to Jim Harrington (410 Keenan)this weeks Adonis T-shirt winner.  
The Adonis lost an Important piece of paper near South Dining Hall Fridaynight. Outstanding Features: Abe Lincoln's face, 115 in all 4 corners, slogan"In God We Trust", green color. If found call Jim Dorgan (1615) or Adonis (6400 Thursday 9-11 pm. Unusual Reward! Vote for Ms. Gorgoslty each week. Send nQminees to: The Adonis, c/o WSND­AM, P.O. Box 532, NO, lnd 46556. Weekly winner announced on the Adonis Show (Thursday 9-11 pm) Announcing the "Why I Love Adonis" Thanksgiving Extravanganza. To enter you:A. Must be a devotee of Adonis B. Must be human c. Must be female (sorry guys) Most creative/original entry will escort  

To: T.S. · 911 Club· Adonis to Thanksgiving dinner at restau­
What's the Scoop? rant of her choice! Don't be a Turkey.
Don't be a poop. Deadline Is Sat. Nov. 18_Send card/briefI know that you're shy, letter to The Adonis, c/o WSND-AM, but r,ou're such a nice (luy. P.O. Box 532, Notre DAme, Ind. 46556. 
Don t stay home alone· ANSWER THE PHONE I Go Team 4!
Nolodyin Particular 
by Margaret R. Burke Mardi Gras raffle tickets for a 
1979  Cutlass  Supreme  will  be  
distributed  to  Notre  Dame  and  
Saint  Mary's  students  in their  

dorms this week. Proceeds from the sales ofthe raffle tickets will go into the Mardi Gras charity fund. 
John McAustin, chairman of Mardi Gras, said, ''We are distri­buting the raffle tickets now so students can sell them at home over Thanksgiving break. We hope to have each student sell one book." 
Each student who sells one book of raffle tickets will be admitted free into the Mardi Gras carnival. As an added incentive, with each additional raffle book sold, the seller will be entitled to a chance on the student prize: a 1979 Starfire sx. 
To encourage dorm competition, $100 will be awarded to the dorm that sells the largest percentage of books. The second place dorm will receive $50 and $25 will go to the third place dorm. 
Rosemary Serbent, co-chairman in charge of the raffle, said the Mardi Gras raffle is "the largest single money-making event for charity at Notre Dame." Last year's raffle raised $20,000. Stu­dent representatives also will be 
Kolbenschlag holds informal lectures 

Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag, as­
s: f A · 

sistant protessor o mencan Studies, will hold an informal lecture on the Equal Rights Am­mendment (ERA) tomorrow at 7:30 
· B d' H 11 Chapel All are
p.m. m a m a · 

W..=======:=~===::M:=:!~::::~==~~~~=~ invited to attend. 
Midwest, where the industry is percent increase· over three years; anxious to "vacate aging facilities 
(2) to accept a 35 percent increase and leave the unions behind." 
over the same period of time and Sixty percent of all union members experience some layoffs; or (3) live in this area, Craypo siad. accept a 33.5 percent increase over 
the same period and the plant 
Craypo p~inted to anotner would be closed. problem facing unions, "remote­The union accepted the third ness of negotiators." Union and option, but later rescinded. In 1975, the union agreed in a niew contract not to strike before 1981. 
Another problem facing unions today, Craypo said, is "the built up stereotype of the labor unions, of the racketeering and corruption.'' In response to a student's question, however, Craypo said that this was not the reason why workers on 15 of Dow Chemical's 22 plants had voted to decertify the unions be­tween 1969 and 1976. this }Vas the resuJt of a "concerted effort to knock out the unions by the industry," he said. 
Figures predict overcrowding 
[continued from page I] 

campus, 10) undergoing volun­tary overcrowding if someone was to be moved off-campus by lottery. 
Price said that the most probable 
solution will involve some of the off-campus alternatives. "People
think the solution has to be fair. No 
such thing is fair. We're just trying to set up a system that's consis­tent," he said. 
In order that student smight
have a better idea of what is available off campus, Price siad that his office has encouraged landlords to list their houses and apartments. However, he acknowledged that landlords are 
often reluctant to list their property because they do not want student 
renters. 

''Anyone who tells you that there isn't enough housing off campus doesn't know what he is talking about," Price said. 
According to Price, the problem has been prolonged in the past wwhen students did not move into permanent quarters as they were vacated by other students. 
"There should be no problem of relieving things by semester. Students will no longer be allowed 
Mardi Gras raffle 
to  stay in  lounges  if  rooms  are  
available,"  he  said,  adding,  "It  
costs to leave rooms empty."  

. Hofman said, "To my know­ledge, no freshman who registered in August has left the University because of the housing situation." He said that no study has. been done to see if there is a correlation between mid-semester deficiency reports and those living in tempor­ary situations. 
Price found special problems in women's dorms. "Overcrowding in women's dorms is more serious than the situation in men's halls because there is less room to work with in the women's dorms," Price said. 
Rossman said, "The biggest problem for the eight extra fresh­men in Walsh was instability and insecurity. The women did not know how involved to get because they could have been moved out at anytime.'' 
''I believe there is a psychology of space," Rossman continued. "People who are piles in on top of each other in a room cannot live, much less socialize." 
She explained that Walsh's situ­ation was cleared up by the second week of September, but there are still 12 more women in her dorm than when she came to Notre Dame in 1976. 

Film maker-critic to speak 
Rock critic and film maker Henry screenwriter of the recently re­
Edwards will speak on the topic leased film version of "Sergeant"The Star Making Machine---Mas­Pepper's Lonely Heart's Club tering the Media," tonight at 7:30 Band." 
p.m. in the library. auditorium. The lecture will focus on the 
Edwards is well known for his making of the movie, a comparison controversial reviews that have between the "rebel" pop stars of appeared in the New York Times as the 160s; and those of the 70s, and well as other publications such as an analysis of the process involved Penthouse Magazine Perhaps he in becoming a star in today's music is best known, however, as the business. 

Committee distributes tickets 
contacting alumni club officials in used in distributing the money. A major cities to sell tickets through ND-SMC organization _requesting these clubs in an effort to increase money must aide the "social, sales. · educational or religious develop­The money raised through the ment of students," such as CILA. raffle and the carnival goes into the South Bend programs that re­Mardi Gras charity fund. The ceive money, such as Logan Cen­money is distributed to Notre ter, usually have students assisting Dame, South Bend and national in the programs. Funds are organizations that hve made re­distributed to national organiza­quest for funds through the Stu­tions that will use the money to dent Activities office. directly aide people, as does UNI­
McAustin said there is a criterion CEF. 
Corrigan discusses trip 
by Mark Perry staff Reporter 

This year's Senior Class trip to Southern California for the USC game will be the largest ever at Notre Dame, according to Terry Corrigan, chairman for the trip. " Corrigan said that 880 people will be leaving for Los Angeles on Nov. 22. This betters the record set by the Class of 1977, which took 704 people to the USC game in 1976. 
The seniors will travel by bus to the South Bend and Chicago air­ports early Wednesday morning, 
Corrigan  said,  where  they will  
board  charter  flights  to  Los  
Angeles.  

''Since we could not book enough planes in South Bend,'' Corrigan said, ''we had to take flights out of Chicago." Three charters are booked at each airport, with 524 students leaving from South Bend. 
When the seniors arrive in Los Angeles, they will be staying at the Sheraton West Town House on Willshire Blvd. "We will have the whole place to ourselves," Corrigan added. 
Once the seniors get settled, they will be free to do just about anything, Corrigan said. "We have made the trip as unstructured as possible," he continued. "We have a trip to Disneyland planned, and about 500 students have al­ready bought tickets for that. Also, we have a beach party planned for Thanksgiving day. But beyond that, they can go wherever they want." 
Planes will be leaving around midnight on Sunday, Nov. 26, to return to South Bend and Chicago, Corrigan said, adding, "We should be arriving sometime early Monday morning, and the students will be bussed back to campus." 
Corrigan said that he doesn't expect any problems like last year's when some planes were delayed for several hours. "We are hoping that the weather stays good so that planes are not delayed," he added. 
"We also might have some problems with students losing air­line tickets, but that can be taken care of pretty easily.'' 

There will be a meeting tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium, begin­ning at 7:30, to pass out tickets and to answer any questions that seniors might have about the trip. 
,' 




Keenan, St. Ed's nab playoff spots 
by Paul Mullaney undefeated in three games, and ''There probably won't be a lot of Assistant Sports Editor tied for the South Quad lead, will scoring. The defense will be the be more than happy to play, as they key. Two touchdowns will probably 
The Keenan interhall foo~ball face one another Wednesday night win the ballgame," Pugh added.
team, which doesn't seem inter­to determine the championship in ~sted in leaving well enough alone, that division. The game is sched­Regardless of who wins the will shoot for its fourth straight uled to begin at 9 p.m. at Cartier Dillon-Morrissey contest, tqe loser campus grid title when the inter­
Field. will not necessarily be eliminated hall playoffs begin next week. "It's going to be a tough game," from the playoff picture. lnterhall 
Keenan, one of two teams to said Steve Berceau, coach of the rules provide that the team with the clinch a playoff berth, did so by Dillon squad. "I expect them to best second place record will defeating arch-rival Stanford, 7-0, 
pass against us. I don't think they receive a wild card berth. 
in North Quad action Sunday at 
can move us out of the· trenches. The Off-Campus team, with a Cartier Field. The game's lone ''The Guts really want this one. victory over Holy Cross and a 
'>C('Ire came on a 55-yard touchdown We'll be up. I think we will be able Central Quad contest Wednesday pass from quarterback George, to move the ball against them, night at 7, would also be 3-1 and· in Broderick to split end Steve Iselin. Berceau continued. · line for a wild card spot. In that 
Coach -Don Bishop, whose If Dillon is indeed going to be ab case, the second place team with squad's only loss was to Flanner able to move the ball, quarterback the best point differential would Hall, hopes his team will put Brian Crowley, fullback Rich Car­receive the berth. 
together a more potent offensive nell, and halfback Jamie Halpin But a wild card spot is of no attack in playoff competition. will have to do so against what is concern to the St. Ed's squad. "lnterhall is always defense. Our perhaps the top defense in the Coach Dan Tranel's team has pass defense, especially, has been league. completely dominated Central super this year," said Bishop, a Morrissey's defense, under Quad play, .outscoring its 
The lnterhall football season is winding down to a close, with
graduate student who works in the coach Dan Buckley, has posted opponents by a total of 88-7. 
playoffs beginnning next week. 
Admissions Office. three successive shutouts in The most convincing win came 
"We're looking pretty good. interhall record for points scored in score that wins games,'' Trine)
achieving its thus far unblemished Sunday, as St. Ed's annihilated Our offense hasn't been that con­mark. They have posted victories Sorin, 54-0, on the passing of a game,'' enthused Trine) of his added. · sistent, so we'll be hoping to open of 21-0, 12-0, and 12-0 against Trine), and the running of backs team's Sunday output. "That's Whether many points are scored up our running game," Bishop Pangborn, Fisher, and Alumni, Glen Gurtcheff and Brian Corrigan. within the last fifteen years or so. or the contests are low scoring, added. respectively. Trine) threw for three touchdowns, "We're the smallest dorm, so Wednesday night's final game and 
''Over-all it was a shore season, while Gurtcheff scored twice on most of our guys have to go both playoff competition should be hard
"I've heard that Dillon is similar fought and representative of some

necessitated by the helmet prob­to us as far as their size," noted long runs and Corrigan once on a ways. We'll have to put together lem. I think that everybody is defensive tackle Tim Pugh. big gainer. our offense. Defense is important, of the best football outside of the happy just being able to· play. "We're matched evenly on the "As far as I know, it's an but it's the number of points you Notre Dame Stadium. Dillon and Morrissey Halls, both lines." 
Boaters close with two wins 
by Mark Perry field rather sloppy. the other end of the field. Assistant Sports Editor Scoring goals for the Irish were Kevin Lovejoy opened the scor­
Terry Finnegan, Mike Mai, Roman ing for Notre Dame five minutes The Notre Dame soccer team Klos, and Bill Ralph. into the game. Lovejoy took a pass closed out their season with a pair "It was a fitting end to a very from Bill Sullivan on the left side, of victories over the weekend, as successful season," said Notre and lofted a high shot into the far 
they defeated Drake University, Dame coach Rich Hunter. corner of the net. 4-2, and downed the Volunteers of "It was one of those games Lovejoy, who closed out the Tennessee, 2-0. where you knew you were better season as Notre Dame's top scorer, 
With the two wins, the Irish than the other team," Hunter· scored his second goal with 14:30 finished their second varsity season continued, ''and you have a ten­expired in the second half. Roman with a record of 21-3-1, and a dency to let up, especially since it Klos dribbled the ball down the 
combined record of 37-4-1 over two was our last game. But I thought middle of the field and rifled a shot 
years. everyone played real well consider­on goal. The Tennessee goalieing the sloppy conditions of the made the save, but Lovejoy came in field."
ND beats Drake in benefit game from the right side to head the ball into the open net. 
Sunday the Irish traveled to Des Irish win final home game Lovejoy ended the season with 29 
Moines. Iowa, to take on Drake 
goals and 5 assists, for a teamUniversity in a benefit game for the In their final home game of the leading total of 34 points. OtherIowa soccer program. The Irish season, Notre Dame defeated Ten­top scorers were Terry Finnegandefeated Drake, 4-2, in a rain­nessee, 2-0, Saturday morning at (24 goals, 4 assists), Roman Klos 
soaked contest. Cartier Field. 
(10 goals, 9 assists), Bill Ralph (12A fairly large crowd showed up The Irish played one of their best goals, 5 assists), Jim Sabitus (6for the game, although the poor games of the year defensively, as goals, 8 assists), and Nick Schnee­weather conditions kept some goalie Brian Cullather spent most man (5 goals, 9 assists). 
people away, and also made the of the game watching the action in


CC team disappointed at NCAAs Lasorda to manage 
by Joe DowJJng captains Dennis VanderKraats and pears to have the best chance. Sports Writer Steve Welch, who had hoped to They have a strong team and 
D d t son 
lead. their team into the finals. in conceivably coulc; give favorites 0 ge r S n eX sea 
Madtson. Three of the seven lrtsh University of Texas at El Paso and runners in Saturday's meet were Oregon a close race. Individually, LOS ANGELES [AP]-There were wi11ning the first two games. Then
On Saturday, Nov. 11, the Notre seniors. the big favorite is Henry Rono, and just two things wrong at the party Nettles came up "!ith those tremen­Dame Cross Country team went Of the four teams entering the Olympic qualifier, who runs for announcing Tommy Lasorda had dous plays in the third game andinto the NCAA District IV meet in NCAA Championship in Madison Washington State. 
been rehired as manager of the Los the controversy in the fourth one."
Minneapolis with high hopes of from District N, Wisconsin ap-Angeles Dodgers at a salary esti­The latter referred to the hip ofinishing in the top four teams. 
mated at $100,000. Reggie Jackson getting in the wayOnly four teams can qualify for th 
People still wondered why the of a throw to first by DodgersNCAA Championships on Nov. 20 Dodgers had lost to the New York shortstop Bill Russell. in Madison, Wis. and Head Coach Yankees in the World Series, and ''Our club in 1979 should be
Tiant signs with Yanks 
Joe Piane and his runners had Lasorda was in a traffic accident on good enough to get into the Series expectations of reaching the finals. the way to the announcement again," said Lasorda, who lost free Teams from the Midwest par­NEW YORK [AP]-The New York Cleveland in -1964. session. agent pitcher Tommy John, out­ticipated in the meet and out of a Yankees signed free agent pitcher The colorful right-hander with No one was· hurt in the accident fielder Bill North and utilityman
Luis Tiant to a two-year contract

total of 14 teams, the Irish finished the drooping moustache and herky­but the Dodgers manager, new Lee Lacy to the re-entry draft. in a disappointing 8th place. Monday, the American League jerky motion was a Fenway Park contract in hand, was trying to bum The Dodgers are expected to go Highly favored Wisconsin finished team announced. favorite after the Red Sox signed a ride nome. after two or three players on their first, with Indiana. Minnesota, and T~ veteran hurler, a long-time him as a free agent in 1971. He had President Peter O'Malley, in own draft list and concentrate on an Michigan filling the other 3 qualify­mainstay of the Boston Red Sox been traded by Cleveland to Min­announcing the one-year pact with outfielder and relief pitcher. ing spots. According to Coach staff thus becomes the first player nesota in 1970 and then released by the skipper who has won National In the meantime, the Dodgers
in the 1978 re-entry draft to reach the Twins, who thought he was League pennants in each of his two are looking at nine players theyPiane, the team didn't perform up contrr-:t terms with a new team. washed up. He failed a tryout with years at the helm, said Lasorda drafted and vice-president AI Cam­to their potential, and turned in a Because of his age, Tiant, who Atlanta but then was rescued by received a raise and the manager panis said, "We are getting a littlerather mediocre performance. 
will be 38 later this month, was the Red Sox and played a major said: "It was a very, very good closer to one player. I amIndividually, the N.D. harriers 

virtually ignored in the Nov. 3 concerned about center field.
role in Boston's American League raise."
only placed one runner in the top 
draft, selected only the Yankees in Either we have a comeback player
championship in 1975. He had earned $70,000 in 1978,25, as sophomore: Pat Sullivan 
Round Eight. For the Yankees, the signing of and even Dodgers officials said an or go elsewhere to get one.''
finished in 24th place. The leader With only one team selecting Tiant marked a return to their estimate of $100,000 for 1979 was The conjecture was that he might of the pack was Steve . Lacey of 
him, Tiant was declared available favorite marketplace. Previously, in the ball park. have been talking about Derrel Wisconsin who ran an excellent for negotiations with all 26 major New York has dipped into the free In both 1977 and 1978, the Thomas of San Diego, but Campa­race of 30.18 in the 10,000 meters. 
league clubs, including the Red agent auction to sign pitchers Dodgers lost the World Series to nis would mention no names. 
The only consolation for the Irish 
Sox, who had balked at giving him Catfish Hunter, Don Gullett, Rich the Yankees, four games to two, The Dodgers also announced 
is that the team performance was anything more than a one-year Gossage and Rawly Eastwick and and this year it was particularly that Jim Lefebvre would be on the an improvement over last year. coaching staff for 1979, working at
contract. slugger Reggie Jackson. All except galling because Los Angeles won When asked about the result of the Last season, pitching for Boston, Eastwick have made significant the first two games. first base and as the team's batting race, Piane responded, "we were Tiant compiled a 13-8 record with a "If God had wanted us to win, instructor. He replaces the late
contributions to three straight A­very, very disappointed." 3.31 earned run average and merican League pennants and two he'd have had Graig Netiles get Jim Gilliam. Lefebvre managed 
the Dodgers entry in a rookieThis was the last meet for the pushed his career record to 204-148 . straight World Championships fof sick,'' said Lasorda. "We had a league last season. •
senior harriers including co-since comin~ to the majors with New York. cgood shot at the World Series after 

' 
...~
·, 





