-------------------------------------~------------­
Security responds to call 
WSND disc jockeys switched off 
by Mark Rust StaffReporter 
Campus security was called in by WSND station managers at 3 a.m. Sunday to assist in removing eight people -two disc jockeys and six guests -after the station cut off in mid-sentence the programming of "Nocturnal Night Flight." 
The two DJs were charged with flagrant violations of the pro­gramming code. 
The action followed a series of programming violations, including drinking in the studio and using obs<.-ene sexual references, accord­ing to Tony Wesley, director of FM programming. 
According to Wesley, the disc 
jockeys-Ted Twardzick and Sean Coughlin -were given three phone 
warnings  before  the  action  was  
taken.  
"The  first  time  I  called  was  

around 1 a.m.," said Wesley. "I heard them using obscene sexual references and I told them to clean up their act." 
At 2:30 a.m., the DJs "men­tioned on the air that they were drinking beer. When I heard that it forced my hand," Wesley said. 
Federal Communications Com­mission regulations prohibit alcohol in radio stations. 
Wesley then called the station for a second time, told the DJs to sign off the air, and, according to Wesley, was ignored. 
WSND Station Manager Kate Bernard placed a third call to the station a few minutes later to warn the DJs that "security might be called in" if they did not comply with Wesley's order. 
At 3 a.m. John Foster, produc­tion manager, was called in to enforce the sign-off order, accord­ing to Bernard. Foster warned Coughlin that he had 60 seconds to sign off with the standard sign-off message. 
While he readied his hand on the circuit breaker switch Foster said that he heard Coughlin announced on the air that, "We have been asked to sign off because some people consider us in poor taste. H any of you support...." 
At this point, according to Foster, the 60 seconds were up and the switch was thrown. 

Once the station was off the air, ' Foster reported that Twardzick and , Coughlin, hibachi in hand, led six guests up to the roof of the: station's office for a barbecue. 
"We had no alternative at that point but to call security," said Foster. "They came and removed everyone while I changed the combination locks on the doors." 
According to Bernard, Coughlin and Twardzick have been fin:d. Both were unavailable for com­ment. 
"We are more than just a campus activity," said Bernard. "We are a business. University regulations are one thing, but we are governed by federal laws. We can't allow this kind of thing to go on." 

WSND, whose license is up for renewal in April, was programming "Night Flight" through their FM channel Saturday night. The FM covers a 35-mile radius. 
"We had more than just pro­gramming to consider," Foster continued." "There were legal ramifications and financial ones, too. Those guys were drinking • I saw the beer cans -and they were dealing with some expensive equipment.'' 
A report explaining the incident will be filed today with the FCC. A similar report will be filed with Dean Roemer this week. 



SMC 21-Ciub denied alcohol license 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's 21-Ciub, the social club that opened last spring in the basement of the college's dining hall, did not open 'its doors this fall. 
The Indiana Alcoholic Beverages Commission denied the club a permanent beer and wine license on the grounds that it is not 200 feet away from the campus and because the commission felt it would set a bad precedent to grant a permanent license to students. 
"The commission doesn't want to encourage drinking on campus or by students. This attitude has been reflected in a number of decisions made recently," Bruce 


and student government members going to do something in their is the Alumnae Association. name, we would want it to reflect Notre Dame's Alumni Associa­their feelings," she continued. tion holds the license for the 
At present, Malone said that sheAlumni-Senior Club. 
had no idea whether the associa­"We haven't even been tions's membership would be re­
approached on the matter yet by ceptive to the idea of sponsoringeither the students or the college," the 21-Club or not. Pam. Malone, president of Saint 
In the meantime, approximatelyMary's Alumnae Association, told $1,700 worth of bar equipment sits The Observer. 
idle in Saint Mary's snack bar. 
"If we are asked, however, we "I feel that we've been treatedwould have to do some thorough unfairly and unjustly. All that work research on the legal ramifications seems to have gone to waste. Thkand then if we felt it was feasible, was a project on which the wholewe would have to poll the alumnae. 
student body cooperated fully andWe would never take on something pulled it off in a very well-organ­like that without asking the mem­ized fashion,'' Laverty said.
bers' opinions because if we're 
SU supports proposal for ·o-c commission 
John McGrath 
In the face of the continuing rash of off-campus student housing robberies, the Student Union is in the inital stages of organizing an off-campus commission to aid victims of the incidents. 
The idea for the new commission was proposed last night by Steve Belmont, a SU representative, at a meeting of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Council. According to Belmont, the new commission will aim at "setting up a line of communication between the students and the neighborhood." He said that there is no present organization to bring off-campus students together. 
The only service now available to off-campus residents is provided by the Off-Campus Housing Office, which provides a quality-rating index of available residences and a "robbery map" that indicates the high-risk housing areas in South Bend. 
"The commission will be consoli­
dating all information, starting an 
off-campus newsletter and putting 
up an off-campus bulletin board in 
the student center," explained Belmont. 
Art Quigley, president of the neighborhood group, welcomed the efforts of SU and echoed Belmont's enthusiasm for the proposed ,commission. "It's a two-way street," Quigley said. "We can help the students as much as they can help us." 
"We realize that students get ripped off more than average people -their lifestyle makes them more vulnerable," Quigley said. He added, "We as neighbors can help, especially during breaks, by watching their homes." 
According to Belmont, upon being questioned by members of the group, there are nearly 2,000 Notre Dame students, including graduate students, living off campus this semester. 
In the past, there had been some friction between the student popu­lation and some of the neighbors. Most complaints concerned loud music, all-night parties, litter and parkingshortagesresulting from the influx of cars belonging to the students. 
Quigley pointed out that the majority of these problems had been worked out through the efforts of a group set up last year by representatives from his group: the student body, the Board of Public Works and Safety, and from the Notre Dame administration. 
"We're trying to combat the sense of alienation between the students and the neighbors," Bel­mont said, adding, "'There's DO guarantee that it can do the job, but at least it's an attempt. Its success depends on the interest of off. campus students." 
, 
Tuesday, September 12, 1971

the observer 

Heat affects over 200
,....News Briefs_______,__ 
l=:::==================================== World !Nixon ma_y visit Australia CANBERRA, Autndla [API • Prime Minister Malcom Fraser said yesterday it would be "offensive and wrong" to denyRichardNixon a visa to enter Australia if he wishes. But he made it clear he does not favor Nixon making an official visit. Speaking in a nationwide television interview, Fraser said, "There have been all sorts of suggestions he, Nixon, could be denied a visa. We cannot stop him. I think it would be offensive and wrong. A private visit is a private visit." Violence continues in Iran TEHRAN, Iran [API· Clashes between troops and anti-government demonstrators. defying a martial law ban on public gatherings, reportedly killed five persons yesterday in two of Iran's major Moslem centers. The new bloodshed came as mourners buried 97 persons killed Friday when soldiers leveled their weapons on rampaging protesters in this capital city. =:::::::===:::::-::::===================== National Reporter shoots w~fe, se(f OAK LAWN, Ill. [API· George Bliss, whose investigative reporting for the Chicago tribune won three Pulitzer prizes, shot and seriously wounded his wife and then killed himself yesterday, authorities said. The shootings occurred in the bedroom of the couple's home in this southwestern suburb of Chicago, according to authorities. Are _you schizophrenic? MIAMI BEACH, Fla. [API • Scientists say they have developed a simple test to diagnose sc,hizophrenia, a group of mental disorders believed to affect millions of people. Dr. Fajendra Varma, a biochemist with Warren State Hospital in Warren, Pa., said Sunday that a chemical test of urine would help back up traditional, imprecise ways of diagnosing the disorder.  
Weather Humid with a 50 percent chance of afternoon showers and thunderstorms today. Highs in the mid 70s to about 80. An 80 percent chance of rain and possible thunderstorms tonight with lows in the mid to upper 50s. A chance of r'ain again tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 70s.  
~On Campus Today_~ 101m lunar uhlblt, moon rock, nasa diorama, shuttle 10 pm modeI, library concouru 3 pm lecture, "space exploration and contrlburtlons to am erlcan culture," clark m cclelland, h1gg1r hall, sponsored by suac 3:45 pm forum, christian lawyer's forum, the problem of representing gu I tty clients," prof. !hom as I. shaffer, nd, 110 IIW bldg 4 pm l1ctur1, ·•obsenatlons on a scientific m lsston to the peoples republic of china, 1978," prof. morris pollard, nd mem. lib. 1ud., sponsored by lnst. for tnt'l studies 4:30 pm umlnar, "computers In bloeducatlon," prof. theo­dore crovello, nd, 278 g1lvln 1ud. 4:30 pm maitlng, for prospective marshall and rhodes scholars, senior students, sponsored by the college of arts and letters, 111 o'ahag. 7 pm soccer, state college vs. nd 7:30 pm muting, faculty senate. 202 cce 7:30 pm eucharist, charlsm a tic eucharist, log ch1p1l, open to all 7:30 pm muting, fellowship of christian athletes, scott thompson, ass't. coach of basketball, 122 hayu­huly 7:30 pm lecture, "space shuttle and beyond," dr. don I. lind, nasa, lib. aud., sponsored by suac 10 pm meeting, knights of columbus, talk given by fr. james t. burtchaell, k of c hall  

Observer Editorial Board 

Red Cross unit treats fans 
by Paul Stander 

The Red Cross unit at Saturday's Notre Dame-Missouri football game kept busy by treating hundreds of overheated spectators. 
Six people had to be taken by ambulance to St. Joseph's Hospital, according to Bro. Louis Hurcik, chairman of the St. Joseph County Red Cross. 
Hurcik estimated that over 200 people needed some kind of first­aid treatment during Saturday's game, where the temperature was 90 degrees at game time and reached 102 on the field. 
"Most cases were heat cases, Hurcik said, "the more serious of which were handled by doctors at 
MaiI service begins 
The Student Union Services Commission began on-campus mail 
delivery yesterday. On-campus mail will be picked up from four yellow mailboxes located around campus. 
Mail from the on-campus boxes will be taken to the Administration Building mail room, where it will be distributed to the mail clerks from each hall. No postage is required. 
SMC day editors sought 
The Saint Mary's Observer office is looking for students to act as day editors between 1-3 p.m., Sunday through Thursday. 
Responsibilities would include taking classified ads and assigning stories to reporters by phone. 
Those interested could work as many as five days ot as few as one. 
This is a paid position and any interested person should contact Jean Powley at 4420 as soon as possible. 

Clarification 
To clarify a statement made by Senior Bar manager Mike Schlage­ter in last Friday's Observer: Schlageter believes business at the Senior Bar would not be affected by the alcohol directive, since the majority of students who attend kegger5o are under 21. "Since they can't get into the bar anyway," he said, "business won't be affected that much." 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sherry M urn­me rt Ant. Nlght Editor: Bill Devitt Layout Staff: Tom Smith, Brigid Mast, Dave Brosh, John Smith, Margo Krach, Tom Monroe Features Layout: Cazzo, Cindy Me Kie I Sports Layout: Mark A. Perry Typists: Mardi (THE BOSS) Nevin, Tom Pipp, Rosie Rod­gers 
E.M .T.: me Day Editor: Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Debbie Dahrling Ad Layout: David E. Wood Photographer: David Rum­bach 
the stadium." 
The stadium first-aid staff 
includes four doctors who man two 
separate first-aid stations in the 
stadium concourse. Assisting each 
team of physicians are two nurses 
and an ambulance with a parame­
dic crew at each station. An 
additional 26 volunteers patrol the 
stands while 13 radio operators 
dispatch help to where it is needed. 
This system was "taxed very, 
very much" on Saturday, according 


Circulation center relocated 
The Observer has announced that 
its main circulation center now will 
be located in Rm. 205 of the 
Administration Building. Suffi­
cient copies will be left daily for the 
Administration Building staff only. 
Issues for students will remain in ·the front foyer of the building. 
to Hurcik, who added, "Everybody was kept busy the whole game." 
Wh'en asked how many people sought refuge from the heat, stadium employee Jerry Crist said, "Too many. The concourse was packed with people who just came down to cool off." 
Senior formal announced 
The Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Senior Classes are sponsor­ing a semi-formal dance Sunday, Sept. 17, from 7-12 p.m. at Cinnabar's. 
Tickets are $15 per couple, which includes an open bar, cheese and crackers, dancing and a club membership to Cinnabar's. 
Tickets may be purchased in the LeMans lobby at Saint Mary's from 11 a.m.-3 p.m. through Thursday. Notre Dame seniors may purchase tickets through their hall represen­tatives. 
Engineering and Architecture Students 
If you are interested in serving as the College of Engineering Student Representative on the University Academic Council 
Please submit your name, resume and brief 
statement of purpose to the Office of the Dean of Engineering by 4:00p.m. Wednesday, September 20. 
• ~-........!...... -·--·... ... ... 
•


mlcfiael &co. Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
mon-wed-fri 8:00-5:30 tues-thur 8:00-8:00 
sat 8-5 V2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 
North 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood

south 291-1001 

master charge visa 
r-----...-----­

t Tickets on Sale t t for Junior Class t t Michigan State Trip t
t t 

----------,t Junior office in basement of LaFortune t 
The Observer Is published Mon. day through Friday except during tt Pn'ce¢ sg.oo t' 
exam and vacation periods. The f Observer Is published by the & students of Notre Dame and Saint t With bUS transp0rta_ti0n 519.00 f 
Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for S20 per year & 
(S 1 o per semester) from The f J · 
g~~e~e~~di:~~· 4:;:,. Q, s:C:~': , * Limit one per unior 
class postage paid, Notre Dame. f 
Indiana. 46556. & . The Oba.erver Is a member of ' 
the Anoclated Pren. All repro-A 
duetion rights are reserved. r 
....___________ 
··~ 
.•' ... . ....· ~·-·: :···~ :-~ 

.~,.·.· '.t • ' • • • 
.. ••• -·.·-._ ,.~..-·_.···./ ... _..............,... ...·_ol ..":....'.\../:-•••...._•••·•...... ·~.... ~.-•.•·'·..•..~ 
... ·. • • • 
.. ' ..... ·)~_ ..i_ :..• ... ·~ -~-... 

:·· 
Tony Pace Steve Odland john Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Grulev 
Doug Christian 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor Photo Editor 
', . .. .. ... .. 

•.•,•.·,.·,..·, .•~•.:...,' • .,.·,,•_,,·.w,'._.•··.·,··,._-.:•.,·~...··.~.-.'. '.:(,.::,'W,..:·.•:.•: •• •":J._.•':·.·._.•,.•_,_.• ··:~:. ~,_-.,,..~".''.•._.
( . .-. --.... -.. -, ..#-'111'!1-·''<l.a '.J-•'". •o,~..J....Wtl\t."" 'W"..,...,.;,.•-..~ ...........,.• ... ._,. 
* 
Includes tailgater 

* 
Bring ID's 


~---= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
.._. ._..._.._. _. ._. .... ....... ~~~: ..· ·.
:· 
&
' 
t 
&
f 
' 
' 
..-...... 
·..• 
Tuudey, Slptemller 12, 1171
r 


Carter seeks Mideast compromise 
CAMP DAVID Md. [AP] • stalemate'' from the fact that there ference. But there was no way of hours with Begin and about one-. Iince the llsraelis were not in­
President Carter has begun an has been no triangular summit knowing whether Begin was yield­third less time with Sadat. volved in either session, the day's "even more intense effort" to session since last Thursday. ing to his demand for full with­The first clue that the summit attelltion was focu-on Sadat and bridge differences between Egypt. "You are barking up the wrong drawal from lands taken by Israel has reached a decisive stage would his delegation. But Powellcauticllled and Israel, but "neither optimism tree ... "the spokesman said. in the 1967 Six-Day war and for be a three-way meeting of the against drawing inferences from or pessimism is justified at this He said the summit had grown recognition of Palestinian foreign ministers · Secretary of the "pattern" of the talks. point," spokesman Jody Powell "even more intense" and the 
"rights. " State Cyrus R. Vance, Israeli "I don't know how you read the
said yesterday. discussions were being conducted Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and pattern," he said. 
"We need another two or three
The president in trying to refine in a more "detailed fashion." Egyptian Foreign Minister
days to crystallize things,'' Ezer The spokesman, responding to 
areas of apparent progress and "It is certainly a more intense Moahmmed Kamel
Weizman, the Israeli defense other questions, offered assurancestrying to find compromise app-effort by the president,'' Powell minister, told an Egyptian reporter That would indicate drafting of that despite the secrecy imposed by roaches in areas where Egyptian said. 
Sunday as Carter guided Begin and documents had begun. But so far Carter the administration wouldPresident Anwar Sadat and Israeli The Israeli sources, asking not to Sadat through a tour of the Civil no such meeting has been announc­convey the results "in general" toPrime Minister Menachem Begin be identified, said the talks had War battlefield in Gettysburg, Pa. ed. the public and Congress.
are apart, Powell said. moved from the exploratory to the So far, Carter, Begin and Sadat Carter's meeting with Sadat was "I don't think there is a chanceThe process began Sunday at a operative stage. The president was to have "sug­have met together for a total of by scheduled any agreement will be reached here 
65-minute meeting between Carter understood made supplemented a 
seven hours. In separate meetings, meeting in the evening between that would not be full disclosedand Begin. It continued yesterday gestions" to Begin at their meeting Carter has spent more than 13 U.S. and Egyptian officials. at the appropriate time,"when Carter met for two hours with and presumably was doing the 
Sadat. same with Sadat. ··F·;·~·;·...~·;t:····s·;·i;t···;;.··;·;y-:;··..;t;d:···· ...............................................--------------­
Powell, briefing reporters for the There was no public work about 
dents! The lner of tlllck elgu
first time in more than 48 hours, what the suggestions were. 
covering LakeMarlon·ls due only
said Carter had no immediate plans Carter is seeking compromises 
to the unusually hot wuther. 
for a three-way meeting· with the from both sides to bread the 
According to Joseph Bond1dlse,
Egyptian and Israel leaders. Mideast impasse. Sadat is said to 
director of groundskuplng,
Earlier, Israeli sources had said be looking for far more than a 
"The hot weather h1d made the 
such a session would be held by the framework for negotiations at a 
algae grow futar. twill t1ka It 
end of the day. lower level after the summit. 
course and sink to the bottom 
Powell, said it would be inapprop-The Egyptian leader is known to 
after a good rainfall or colder 
riate "to draw the conclusion of a want hard results from the con-
weather." Bonadlu, who works with Dr. Dineen, profn· sor of biology at Saint Mary's, on m attars concerning the lake,
In Nicaragua 
stated that he and Dlnaan remain reluctant to usa mora 
• cham lea Is In th lake for fear of
Civil war erupts 
klllng the fish. Lake Marion was cleaned with cham lcals 
MASAYA Nicaragua [AP] ·Fierce at least 200 people had died in 
before the sam ester began, but 
street battles raged in Masaya and fighting in Managua over the 
the hot weather of last weak 
other Nicaraguan cities yesterday weekend and there were many 
nourlshd new algae. bonadlsa as government troops backed by more killed outside the capital. explained that rain or cooler helicopter gunships fought rebel · Red Cross,.business leaders and weather will kill the algae and forces seeking to topple President other sources said damage in sand It to the bottom of the lake. Anastasio Somoza. Managua since the uprising began 
[Photo·bY David Rumbach)
Unofficial sources said as many late Saturday night is estimated at as 200 persons may have been more than $2 million. killed in the renewed fighting, Military jeeps with heavily arm­which erupted Saturday night with ed guardsmen patrolled the streets coordinated attacks on national of Managua and numerous road-guard posts. blocks were to be seen at key 
"There is no longer any doubt. intersections . especially near the 
Mcinerny named to Grace chair 
It is a civil war," said Alvarro center of the city where Somoza Chamorro, vice president of the lives and works. Ralph Mclnern)r professor of philo-Mcinerny, who received his doc· Etienne Gilson. In 1946, the Insti­anit-Somoza Conservative Party. Heavy fighting was reported in sophy, has been named to the torate from Laval University in tute became an independent aca­
Masaya • a rebel stronghold • Esteli, where at least five persons Michael P. Grace Chair as director 1954 and who 'has been at Notre demic unit within the University. reverberated with the crack of were reported killed over the of the University~s Mediaeval Insti-Dame, since 1955, is a specialist in In 1952, Prof. A.L. Gabriel small arms and the thud of cannon weekend. tute. Mediaeval philosophy and moral assumed the directorship of the and machine gun fire as 300 In Washington, a State Depart-In making the announcement, philosophy. He has written five Institute and during his 23 years of national guard soldiers rolled into ment spokesman said all parties to Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Uni-scholarly books, including a two-leadership it became well known the city in trucks. the political crisis in Nicaragua versity president said Mcfnerny volume "History of Western Philo-for work in the history of 
Red Cross officials said 36 should make "appropriate conces-was selected from "a number of sophy," and is completing a study Mediaeval education and related persons had been killed since sions and sacrifices" to avoid other candidates who had outstand-of the philosophy of Boethius, fields of study. The Institute is Saturday and the wounded num-further bloodshed. Nodding, Carter ing credentials in the field of which he recently researched while located in the Memorial Library. bered more than 100. One Red said the appeal was not intended as Mediaeval studies." on sabbatical in Europe. Cross official said the number of a U.S. call for the resignation of Hesburgh said Mcinerny's He has also edited and translated casualties "may be much higher Somoza. "familiarity with the scholarly ter-books in his field, has published Softball me,tingonce the bodies are retrieved." The current crisis threatening rain of the University will allow him several articles in scholarly jour-
No official casualty figures were Somoza began Aug. 28 when to enhance the contribution of our nals and h4s been a frequent 
scheduled

available, but refugees fleeing Sandinista guerrillas, named for a unique holding in Mediaeval cui-invited lecturer. Masaya said they had seen guerrilla leader killed fighting the ture to our larger research and The University's Mediaeval In-There will be a captain's meeting "dozens" of bodies, both of civil-U.S. Marines in the 1930s, took teaching activities." stitute grew out of vigorous pro-of the men's 16-inch interhaU ians and National Guardsmen, in over the capitol building, held The Grace Chair, which is occu-gram of research, publication and softball club tomorrow at 4:30 on the city hospital and the morgue. about 1,500 hostages and forced pied by the Mediaeval Institute's instruction in Mediaeval culture the stairway outside the InterhaU 
Somoza, whose family has ruled the president to free 59 imprisoned director, has been vacant since the begun in 1933 by Fr. Philip S. Office in the ACC. the Central American nation for 41 Sandinistas, pay the guerrillas departure from the University in ~~~~~~~~~=wt=·~th~~;:=:;;;::===:!::======R 
years, declared martial law in the $500,000 and let the prisoners and 1977 of Jeffrey B. Russell. The J= Masaya, 18 miles southeast of the their liberators leave the country. chair was primarily funded by capital, and Esteli, 90 miles tl) the A nationwide strike, called by Michael P. Grace, a 1941 Notre north, giving troops the right to opposition political parties and Dame graduate who has main-shoot on sight. joined by the country's major tained an interest in theological 
A highly placed opposition business organizations, began and Mediaeval studies over the source said his contacts told him Aug. 25. years. 
************************************************** 
* Tues. thru Sun. 8:00 P.M.-2:00A.M. (Mich. Time) 
* * LEE'~ B.B.Q.
* 
* --WEEKLY SPECIALS
* 
* EVERY SUNDRY IS HANG-OVER SUNDRY
* 
lowest drinks in ffiichiana

* Tuesday Special
* EVERY WEDNESDAY DANCE LESSONS­
* 
* 
LADIES NIGHT

* 
all ladies admitted free

* 
r----------------~ learn all the newest steps


* I 35c oH I
* 
as 
taught by the Apple High Steppers * 

* 
1*1.60 Pltchets of mm., Clnd I EVERY THURSDAY NOTRE DAmE­


* 
ST. mARYS NIGHT 
nur•n... presenting a Notre Dame or St. marys c.ou•,o•' 

* * * 1 mm., uw •
* 
.D. will be given 5 half price drink tickets that can b• ___ used anytime during th• night* L-----i=~~~~~-----J ! FREE-AI5miTfFii~fCE___wlit.-rhis-Ad______i * 

* 
I I

E Sp01-Midni~ht L___________T~~-~~~~-~~-~~~~~~~~~-------~-1 i 1132 South Bend Ave 
"'************************************* . ·. 


Brother J 1m 11 R 1 kofkl C. S.C. ud Broth1r Rad 1 ric Grlx C. S.C. collect wu drip pIn g1 1t th 1 G rotta. Bro. Grlx, 1 ruldent of Holy Crou H1lllslnc1 1921, hll performed thll duty for the put yur. [Photo by Dnld Rumb1ch) 
Let a TI calculator help you make more efficient use of your time. This semester... and for years to come. 
Now; more affordable 
thanever! 
PLUS for a limited time a 
The Tl Programma­
ss.oo rebate

ble 57 is a powerful slide rule calculator with the purchase with statistics and de­of.a TI-57. cision making capabil­ities to help solve repeti­tive problems ... quickly and accurately. 
Powerful program memory stores 50 fully-merged steps for up to 150 keystrokes. Computer-like func­tions include editing, branching, subroutines, and more. Slide rule capabilities include functions of x, as well as log, trig, and statistical functions. Comes complete with an easy-to-follow learning guide. 
With its new, low price and limited time $5.00 re­bate, the Tl Programmable 57 offers an unsurpassed value. Act now to take advantage of this outstand­ing offer. 
.­
------------------, 
Use this coupon to obtain your $5.00 rebate. 
Texas Instruments wtll rebate $5.00 of your origmal Tl-57 purchase price when you· 
(1) Return this completed coupon. including serial number. (2) along with your completed Tl-57 customer informatton card (packed in box). and (3) a dated copy of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between August 15 and October 31. 1978 Your coupon, customer information card. and dated copy of proof of pur· chase must be postmarked on or before November 7, 1978 to qualify lor this special offer. 
Send to: Tl·57 Rebate Offer, P.O. Box 53, lubbock, Texas 79408 
Na'}'e. 
Address 
Ctty 
___.Zip _______
State 

Tf·57 SERIAL NUMBER _____ (from back of calculator) Please allow 30 days for delivery. Offer void where prohibtted by law. Offer good in 
U.S. only. 
$70. 

Do business and financial classwork quickly with this powerful calculator. 
For business administration, financial analy­sis and planning, real estate management, investment analysis, and more. The MBA's fi­nancial functions include net present value and internal rate of return for variable cash flows. Payment, present and future value, number of periods for annuities. Also, days between dates, and direct solution of yield for 
bonds and mortgages. 
" Statistical functions include mean. variance. and standard deviation at the touch of a key. 
, Built-in linear regression. 
Simple programmabil­ity lets the MBA remem­ber a sequence of up to 32 keystrokes. 
The MBA comes with a valuable book, Ca/cula­

t:::::==:=::::::~~~'d!Ji tor Analysis for Business and Finance. Shows you how to apply the power of your MBA to business and financial 
decision making. ~ At its new, low price, the MBA ·) presents an exceptional value to the business student. See it today. 
•U S suggested rrta11 pnce. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
I N C 0 R PO RATED 
45603 
It's another of 
Grand Prix accident claims Peterson's life 
MILAN' Italy [AP) -Swedish racing star Ronnie Peterson died here yesterday of kidney and lung failure following multiple factures suffered in a 10-car crash at the start of the ill-fatedGrand Prix of Italy world Formula One race at nearby Monza. 
The 34-year-old Swede died after an emergency operation at the Niguarda hospital in. Milan where he was rushed by helicopter after the crash in Sunday'S race. 
The Grand Prix was first halted' and then restarted hours later in a shortened version because of the collision, Niki Iauda won the race. 
Peterson suffered extensive fractures ofboth legs, his right foot and right arm and minor bums in the collision at an artificial narrow­ing of the track shortly after the start, which was introduced to slow down racers in front of the main stand. 
The Swede's Lotus and the McLaren of James Hunt of Britain collided, then Peterson's car ran into the guard rail, caught fire and was hit from behind by the Surtess prosecutor have opened two separate inquiries into the accident following the chaotic start of the race. Some drivers have already called for the closure of the Monze track. 
of  Italian  veteran  Vittorio  
Brambilla.  
Racing officials  and the  Milan  

Hunt pinned the responsibility of the crash, which damaged 10 cars on Riccardo Patrese of Italy. He said the Italian tried to squeeze in from the right, forcing him to the left and into the collision with Peterson. 
Patrese, however, flatly rejected the charge. 
Peterson and Brambilla, who suffered a fractured skull, were the most seriously injured in the crash. 
Peterson had won the Monza race three times previously and was seeking an unprecedented fourth success. 
Schlereth 
aids grant committee 
by John McDermott 
Outside activities are nothing new to the faculty members of Notre Dame and Professor Thomas Schlereth, chairman of the Ameri­can Studies Department, is one professor who likes to be involved. 
For the past two years, Schlereth has been an active member of the Indiana Committee for Humanities, an independent, non-profit organi­zation established in 1971 to sup­port public humanities. programs. The volunteer state committtee is made up of both academic and public members and has provided over $1 million in grants to non­profit groups throughout Indiana. 
The purpose of ICH grants is to 
increase the public's contact with 
and understanding of the humani­
ties as a basis for discussing 
people's values and responsibili­
ties. Funds for the Indianapolis­
based committee are provided by 
grants from the National Endow­
ment for the Humanities and 
private donations. 
Prior to Schlereth's nomination 
William M. Burks, assistant to the 
provost, and Robert E. Bums, 
associate dean of the College of 
Arts and Letters, were both mem­
bers of the ICH. Burns was also 
one of the five founders of the ICH. 
Schlereth's function is basically 
that of a regional consultant. 
Representing both Notre Dame and 
northern Indiana, Schlereth is 
available to all groups to help in the 
preliminary planning of a program. 
Schlereth must travel to Indiana­
polis four times a year where the 
committee decides which projects it 
will help fund. 
One such project being funded by the ICH involves both Assistant Professor Kenneth E. Goodpaster of the Philosophy Department and Associate ProfessorJohn A. Ruhe of the Business Department. Toget­her they will conduct a three-day gathering Lf philosophers, theolog­ians and businessmen who will address themselves to the ethical decisions that confront today's businessman. Several sessions. which will be held in the Center for Continuing Education. will be open to the public. 
According to Schlt:reth, a great deal of reading, traveling. and consulting i~ done by the members of the ICJi. but Schlert>th stated, "I feel it is my respon,:;ibility as a citizen wh1> happens to be a teacher lobe of service." 
Schlereth has one year left to serve on the ICH. When asked if he would like to sen.: for another three years. Schlereth said, "Definitely." "I very much be­lieve in the humanities projects that the ICH is trying i.o nurture. 
find it personally satisfying and the projects proposed are worth my 


©1978 ilxas Instruments Incorporated 
___________________ __.___________________________,,...... time. just my 
functions as a professor." 
I· 

----,-.------...,---:---:--:-------;­
The first time I saw Bruce Springsteen was in the spring of '71. He .~
..•

played in my high school's gymnasium. I was fourteen then and like 
virtually everyone around me, I had no idea who he was. For me, the 
concert was just something to do on a Saturday night. Stuck in the Grand 
Funk-Black Sabbath rut, I didn't expect much. But from the moment 
Bruce came on stage, from the moment he began to strum those first few 
chords of "Johnny B. Goode", from the moment he began smiling that 
wild playful smile, I knew I was hooked. His moves his energy, his cat-like 
leaps bred excitement, pure excitement. His music was refreshing. 
There was a purity about it, a clean energy that moved all it touched. It 
was smooth. It was wild. It was right. It was Rock and Roll. 
S()rlll"§t~~~~~ 



In the Spring of 1971 my rock and roll education began. And now, seven years and fifteen Springsteen shows later, I find that Bruce Springsteen can still teach a mellowing fool like me how to rock. Saturday night's Bruce Springsteen con­cert was great, one ofthe best rock and roll shows I have ever seen. It was certainly the best I've ever seen at Notre Dame. I say that unquestionably, without fear of dissenters. Bruce played for over 3lh hours, including four encores; every second charged with power, force, and 
1pure emotion. 
The more I reflect, the more I realize that it is impossible to capture the Springsteen experience in words. I say "experience" because Springsteen's brand of rock goes beyond the typical concert hall relationshiiJ between audience and performer. He gives 100 percent throughout the show. From the opener, "Badlands", to "Twist and Shout", Springsteen was in a sweat. It streamed off him in torrents, or was flung off in a frenzy of movement, as Springsteen danced, whirled, and leapt his way through the 3'lz hour extravaganza. He owned the crowd. He won them with his smile, his expressions, his total dedication to rock and the willine energy and excitement that 
define it and him. Springsteen began the show with "Badlands" from the Darkness on the Edge of Town album, and followed it with the innovative "Candy's Room" from the same album. Danny Federici played glockenspiel on this number, ~roviding a carnival-type atmosphere which would remain throughout the show. Springsteen brought the audience to their feet with a beautiful verson of "Spirits in the Night", a classic rocker from the Greetings album. After dancing on the PA, strutting, dipping and wheeling around the stage, Bruce made his tradi­tional leap into the audience and sung the remainder of the song from the thirteenth row. Very few performers have this much trust in their audience; and it is precisely this type of trust which gave Saturday night's concert its energy, its sincerity, and its force. . 
While Bruce was immersed m the crowd to the right of the stage, sax player Clarence Clemmons, dressed in bright red for the first set, occupied the crowd to the other, displaying the cool class that. m~s him Springsteen's perfect ot~er, h1s side­kick, the silent one, the omntpresent one, the one who communicates without speaking. Clarence's sax c~rr!es the emotion, brilliantly counterpomtmg the driving chords which carry the energy. Clarence was a silent second force through­out the show, cajoling with the Boss, 
whirling like a dervish throughout the second half of the show. His sax work on "Jungleland" and "Rosalita" was stunning. 
After "Spirits in the Night':, Bru~e saf1.~ a powerful version of the Antmal~ old h1t "It's My Life". This one h~. dedicated ~o two guys from Detroit who . busted the1r bank accounts" following h1m around the country. 1can think of worse ways to spend 
money. 
For the remainder of the first set, Springsteen concentrated on material from the recent Darkness album. The recorded versions of "Racing in the Street" and "The Promised Land" come close to those rendered by Bruce Saturday night. "Prove It All Night" was especially well done. In this number Springsteen displayed his gut wrenching virtuosity on guitar, as he and fellow guitarist Steve Van Zant darted and snaked around stage. The first set ended with the edge-city ballad "Jungleland":. And the concert had just begun. 
Having already done most of his newly recorded material. Springsteen had only one place to go. That was back, back to the days of good-time rock, back to powerful innocence of the high-energy "Rosalita", baclt to the sing-along rhythm-and-blues that Springsteen grew up with, that which Springsteen began with, that brand of music made to move and soothe the soul, back to Rock and Roll. 
And boy, did Springsteen rock and roUI He began the second set with a fantastic 
()~()VI~~ II All ~1()111 
blues instrumental which featured the talent of all the band members. Solos by the "big man" Clarence Clemmons and pianist Ray Bittan proved especially memorable. Completely loose now, Springsteen and the band left the reper­toire of songs they had written up and played an obscure 'SO's tune·. called "Double Shot of My Baby's Love". It was the first time they had done the song and Bruce momentarily forgot the lyrics. It didn't matter. Soon he had the crowd, whom he instructed to act drunk, singing and shouting along. He followed this with "Louie, Louie", a precious rock relic, and the crowd on the floor was on their feet to stay. From here, the muffied voices of the audience would be sing-along on every 
song. 
During this set Bruce went back to Greetings again and did a superb version of "For You", followed with "Sandy", which he dedicated to people from Asbury Park. Being from that area, I gobbled this one up. The concert version was flawless as Sprinsteen's vocals proved to be in tiptop shape. What was begun now started coming to a head. Slowly ·but surely,Bruce increased the energy level, building and mounting the excitement, moving with the crowd, playing a vocal and physical Simon Says with the . audience during the amazing "Not Fade Away ­She's the One" medley. I can't say enough about this number. Spanning two decades of rock, it begins with a primitive beat laid down by drummer "Might Max" Wienburg. Springsteen sang the Buddy Holly classic with no accompaniment except for drums, and after an amazing stint on solo guitar began to mold the beat, moving the piece into the '60's classic "Gloria", back again to "Not Fade Away" 
and finally into a high powered foot-stomping version of "She's the One". 
Springsteen, his new change of clothes drenched in sweat, ended the set with the forever amazing "Rosalita", which got everybody up and dancing on their seats. Smiling like a child with a new toy, Springsteen and his band exited only to be called back by a frenzied crowd. Beginning with "Born to Run", Springsteen came back twice more and performed an unbelievable rendition of "~use the Night", which blew the Patti Smith version away, and followed that with "Food Fight", another 'SO's rocker, which featured a doughnut flinging Clarence Clemmons. HallWay through this song, the lights went up and some people started to leave. Others couldn't leave. They were 

117" t-F15• 11ash 
111e flacll &-the $ia/nd 
Editor's Note: "The F-Page F1ash" Is 
something new for Observer Features. 
Every other Tuesday, various wrften will 
treat a bevvy of subjects In all different 
manners--essay, fantasy, verse, scene, etc. 
WhDe It won't be strictly opinion, It will 
offer writers a chance to be freer and more 
personal, a chance to extrapolate on the 
Dashes of emotion, wit, and Insight that ftlt 
through their minds In the clreamler 
moments of the day. We hope you e!Qoy 
lt••• 
During the summer, I was going through some of the material I wrote for last year's Observer, and came across a fiction I published in one of the last issues. I tried to re-read it, but had to stop midway through. The piece was terrible, and I was suddenly embarrassed. But I don't think I was embarrassed so much because the fiction was technically worthless; some­thing else bothered me. I remembered hurrying the story's completion in the hectic days before final exams, rushing it out so I could "show it off'' in print. 'Twas an ego trip of terrific dimension, one that blinded me from the outrageou10 inade­quacies of the story. The realization that I'd given in to such a silly, selfish pleasure coupled with my conviction that the story wasn't good is what embarrassed me. 
I lost control of what I was doing when I became obsessed with what others would think. 
I suppose it stems from a need for attention. I don't believe anyone can deny that they need other people's evaluations to some degree. I hear lots of people say, "I don't care what anybody thinks," but, hard as I might try, I can't believe it. 

Self-prostitution. A loss of control. Both of which arise from a personal lack of clear self-perception. I lose tract. of what I am and what I'm doing, I find myself entangled in a complex and intense social situation, and I finally succumb to the pressures of confusion and try to let this overwhelming social structure shed light ·on my life .. .I loot solely to others for Justifk.ation and ~on, forget nlyself, 
and pretty soon, don't know whose eyes I'm looking through anymore ... That's what cou1d happen, and in fact has happened before. Now I look for a time 
· and a place to reorder my sensibilities and get a firmer grip on what is going on in these shoes. We're all doing it, I think, subconsciously or consciously. But it's hard to find such a "clean, well-lighted place" (as author Ernest Hemingway described it in his fiction) at a busding, high-pressure American university. I was fortunate, thoogh, to find one this summer in the lakelands of northern Michigan. 
I moved from Detroit·to tiny MancelOna and worked for a small county newspaper. My life slowed to a virtual crawl. I spent much time alone, quiet, writing. The lack of night life and my financial situation kept me away from any really complex social doings. I did what I wanted to do, how, when and where I wanted to do it. I rid my life of excess baggage, forgot things and people and qtJestions and pressures, and in August, looked back and laughed at how I'd brooded over them in the first place... • 
I maintained simple personal relation­ships, got to know my family better, and appreciated things right at my fingertips for the first time in a long while...My grandfather's laugh. The feeling of a good, smooth water-ski cut. The amazing taste of Traverse City cherries. The Northern Lights. Playing bumper pool with my five year-old sister. Sweating after a long run through the hills and bush, then plunging into the lake for a swim. 
But I'm going to far here--this article is turning into an "ego trip" of sorts, a New Year expostutation on self, to rid the psyche of schrapnel from times past, to rediscover a "clean, well-lighted place" at Notre Dame, to begin again. A confession and a catalyst, a starting place. While, at the same time, this is a call for attention, a plea for you, reader, to tell us what your think of a different Obeerver FeatureS Page. 
Suddenly I am dealing with tangible subject matter-this page. ~ if the jump in trains of thoufht was a bit startling. ~ctuaJly•..!bat spoke of iD _!he 
hooked, blind drunk on a triple sllot of Springsteen rock. They screamed, stammered, and waved their arms, paying no attention to the roadies who had already removed one of the big curtains from behind the stage. Meanwhile, behind the stage friebds of .mine encountered an exhausted Springsteen. "They're not going to leave," said one, "until you play one more." And play one more Bruce did. And those who had waited ''Twisted and Shouted" for a final, frenzied, fun-filled, fabulous time. The show was over, but not its effects. The eyes of the floor audience read amazement. Their bodies sagged from exhaustion. It was a concert few would forget. Springsteen himself seemed overwhelmed at the response. Smiling and dripping, he left. For 3Vz hours he fulfilled the 'Badlands" fantasy. He wanted "our hearts", ·he wanted "our souls'~. He worked for them, he danced, sang and sold his soul for them. He got them. For 3'12 
hours he molded students and townies alike, rocking them, moving them, wooing them. For 31/2 hours 4000 people became like himself. For 3Vz hours 4000 peoole became willing prisoners of rock and· 'roll. 
Steplle.Beb... 
preceding paragraphs has much to do with our attempt to renovate this page. We're calling attention to ourselves. We're trying to please other people--namely, you. 
And we're using our talents honesdy in an effort to bring a new eneregy to this page; not a flashy-energy, or a terribly intellec­tual energy, but--it's difficult to say--a new life, a different look, something to set the F-Page off from what's been done in the past. 
We~re trying a few new things. This column, for example. And, every Thursday beginning September 21, a photographic essay called "Midpoint". On Fridays, we'll be running an insightful and informa­tive section that'll tell you what's hap­penin' on and off the ND-SMC campus. We've got some new ideas for articles and some new writers, and, we hope, a new loot design-wise. But we're just in the tryfag stages now. We'll never know if. we're succeeding unless you give us some feedback in the form of constructive criticism. Tell us how you like, dislike, or don't give a damn about the Olweuw F-Page. We know what we're trying to do; we've aligned our Obtlerver sensibilities. Now we need your honest commenta 1D help us see where we've failed to UDCOVet other useful energies and talents in our wort. 
I find it hard to conclude this column. suppose the concrete cnu: of the matter J.• that of the F-Page and your helping us wita.. feedback. There's something deeper here, though; I can feel it. Something buic, yes·, but nevertheless deeper thaD mere considerations ofa newspaper department. Ithas something to do with the uncertainty of movement and decision with a soc:t,ty, the apprehension involved In caUing attea­tion to oneself, and the tension that oftea arises just before a person ac:ta...straqe. 
words come to mind, words of~
Jackson Browne, and whUe they iD no summarize the stuff of tbis fint F­column, they DevettheJeas capturespirit... . -' ''Don'tlet the UDCettainty tuna you fOUl* . 
Go and make ajoyfal80Ud... , . 
.,..~.­


..,·..
..·..\ 


t:. the obaa.uer Tuud1y, September 12, 1171 ~Q 
I¢ _.U..Uj~~&KL--___:_::_:_:__::~~ ! • v' ~.L ~)~ Jrl~ 
1

Teacher .... contract disputes continue across the nation 
Contract negotiations in Fall[API -School opened yesterday for River and Chelmsford, Mass.,

2SO,OOO Philadelphia youngsters broke down early yesterday morn­who' got an extra week's vacation ing prompting strikes in both cities. 
because of a teachers' walkout. In Norwalk, Conn., teachers wereNew Orleans, teachers who settled back in school Monday after voting a nearly two-week walkout pre­to accept a three-year contract andpared to resume normal classes end their four-day strike againstTuesday for 91,000 pupils. 
the 14,000 pupil syste. 

Labor disputes elsewhere, how­In Bridgeport, Conn., Superiorever -mainly over wages -con­Court Judge James Henebry yes­tinued to disrupt education for terday found the city's· several hundred thousand children. 
1,350 striking public schoolAnnouncement of a tentative teachers in contempt of court forsettlement in New Orleans came failing to obey a back-to-workearly yesterday, and the teachers. 

order. He said he would fine eachvoted soon afterward to accept the of the union's 13 leaders thispact. Normal classes were sche­morning.

duled for today. 
Teachers in Cranston, R.I., voted Philadelphia's 13,000 teachers yesterday to stay out on strike,were back on the job yesterday despite a state Supreme Courtafter accepting a two-year contract ruling upholding a lower court'scalling for a IS percent increase back-to-work order. 

during the second year of the pact. Students in Cleveland missed 

their second day of school as a C• •ntinuing strike by 5,000 teachers a·1d S,OOO non-academic employees Lawyers I• ·r..:cd principals to send students 
me. The strike affects 100,000 
Forum meets
'f>ils. 
The recently established Christian Lawyers Forum will hold its first

Pollard to be 
meeting today at 3:45 p.m. in Rm. 110 of the Law Building. Thomas 

L. Shaffer will speak on ''Theinterviewed Problem of Representing Guilty Clients" and a discussion will Morris Pollard, professor of follow. 'llla'Obiology at Notre Dame, will The forum is a gathering of mtervicwed today and tomorrow Christian lawyers to discuss pre­r1 WNlT. channel 34 in South sent issues and to hold brief 
:: ·ud. meetings for prayer and reflection. !'he first part of the interview Meetings are tentatively 
w.ll be aired tonight at 6 p.m. and scheduled for the second Tuesday rtpcated at ll p.m. The second of each month. The forum will part will be shown tomorrow, also meet for brief sessions of prayer at 6 p.m. and ll p.m. and reflection on Mondays at 8:30 
Pollard will be discussing his a.m. in Rm. ll2' and on Thursdays work at the University involving at 3:45p.m. in Rm. 110 of the Law cancer research and virology, and Building. 
talking about his recent trip to All interested persons are invited mainland China. to attend these meetings. 



collegiate crossword frr sssasination probe 
New tests open possibilities 
WASHINGTON [API -New acous­But some eyewitnesses contend­He said the tests indicate the tics tests indicate a second gunman ed they heard shots from a grassy police motorcycle was about 120 may have fired on President John knoll to Kennedy's right, and feet behind Kennedy's limousine. 
F. Kennedy, a finding that would conspiracy theorists have contend­Barger is chief scientist with the support theories of a conspiracy in ed that a second gunman fired form acoustics firm of Bold, Beranek and the assassination, a House commit­there. News, which also analyzed record­tee was told yesterday. Rep. Louis Stokas, D-Ohio, ings of Ohio National Guard gun­Dr. James Barger, chief Sl=ient­chairman of the assassinations fire at Kent State University and 
est for a Massachusetts a.::otxstics committee, opened the hearing by the infamous 191/l-minute gap on firm, told the House assassinations urging that no one "too quickly Richard M. Nixon's Watergate committee that the tests he cond­draw sensation conclusions from tapes. ucted for the panel disclosed the the evidence." In other testimony, a photo­possibility that four shots were In his testimony, Barger said he analyst, Dr. William Hartmann, fired during the moments Kennedy and his staff analyzed a Dallas said test indicate Abraham was slain. police tape recording make when a Zapruder reacted visibly to two 
Barger's analysis involved comp­motorcycle officer accidentally left shots while taking his famous aring gun-like sounds on a tape his radio transmitter on for about motion pictures of the Kennedy recording of the assassination with 5'12 minutes.-During those minutes assassination. the sound of test shots fired in the Kennedy was killed. same locations in Dallas last month. Barger spent nearly two hours 
By comparing the sounds. he leading the committee through a Cultural Arts said, the scientists concluded that complex explanation of how he got there was a SO-SO probability that his results from analysis of the 
Commission

four of the sounds on the original Police radio recording and compari­tape were gunshots. son with tests made iri Dallas' If the four sounds were shots, Dealey Plaza last month. During accepting bids Barger said,one of them came from those tests, acoustical experts re­
The Student Union Cultural ArtsKennedy's right -near a grassy corded 2.600 rifle and pistol shots Commissio.J is looking for indivi­

knoll where some witnesses said fired at sandbags. 
duals interested in casting, direct­they heard shooting -and not from The tests indicated that, during ing and producing a specific44 Storage structure 10 rlews service Lee Harvey Oswald's position. the seconds in which Kennedy was

ACROSS dramatic production.
45 Attire II Support Barger said the tests also showed slain, four shots were fired and that 
1 Hold in contempt 46 -legs 12 Studies hard Those interested may submit a
that two of the four suspect sounds one was fired too soon after the
6 Stick together 47 Fedther's partner 13 Natives of Aleppo bid to the commission detailing 
12 Goatlike antelope 48 Throat tissue 15 Torn piece occurred too close together to be others to have been fired by the plans for the organization of such a 14 Rich 50 Bette Davis movie, 20 "Darn it!" shots from a single gun. Testimony same gunman, Barger testified. 
production. One production pro­16 Swiftly "The-" 24 American league that four shots were possible posal will be accepted from all bids 17 -shorts 51 Pi's neighbor team 

contradicts the Warren Commiss­
18 Mine passage 53 Very severe pain 26 Lacking v1gor submitted and the show, along with I~ Wandering 55 Middle portion of a 27 Boxing great ion, which concluded there were Men's volleyball sufficient production costs, will be
only three shots. Conspiracy
21 Kindergartner song 28 Cure financed by the Student Union. 
22 Witticism 56 Used Brillo 30 Actor Will -theorists have contended a fourth 
club schedules

23 Ending for cord 57 More profound 31 Gaucho weapon shot was fired and that a second Bids will be judged for the 24 Mr. Lance 58 Was the proprietor 33 Chess maneu~ers gunman was involved. meeting collective dramatic experience of 25 Babe Ruth homer 34-oil The Warren Commission con­director and performers, plans for
27 Car starter (abbr.) 35 Mortified 
28 Steve Cauthen's DOWN cluded that Lee Harvey Oswald There will be a short organiza­production (staging, lighting, cost­
36 Unproductive

vehicle Former TV serial, 37 Elongate fishes acted alone in assassinating tional meeting for the new Notre uming), and the quality of the , ) Advertising phrases "Dark-" 38 Model's concern Kennedy on Nov. 22, 1963, as the Dame men's volleyball club today proposed play. 31 Film comedian 2 Balance sheet 39 Defeated soundly 
president rode in a motorcade in at 7 p.m. in Room 307 of the All bids should be submitted 
Joe-section 41 Way Dallas. Engineering Building. Any stu­before Friday, Sept. 23, and they
Western redskins 3 Leave out 43 Auriculate dent who did not sign up during should specify whether the pro­Opposite of hero 4 Actor Taylor 45 ~1other-Three shell casings were found 
Famous ghost 5 Historic river 48 Golf course hazard in the Texas School Book Deposi­Activities Night is welcome to duction will be scheduled for first Lmulates 2B-Across 6 Element #27 49 Crazy tory window from which Oswald attend. Any questions call Gary of second semester. Up and about 7 Golf tournaments 50 Stupefy was said to have fired at Kennedy's Metzler at 1717 or Jay Rafter at For more information, call Stud­
~~ Irene Dunne role 8 Injure 52 Curved letter ent Union at 6244 or 289-1803.
motorcade. 1652.
42 Alaskan town 9 Common street name 54 Coxswain's word 
.. ....... ,,
.·. ·. 


Irish 15th in AP football poll 
1. Alabama (51) 1-0-0 1,247 
2. Arkansas (11) 0-0-0 1,128 
3. Oklahoma 1-0-0 1,044 
4. Michigan 0-0-0 933 . 
5. Penn State (1) 2-0-0 922 6. Ohio State 0-0-0 891 7. Texas 0-0-0 833 8. Southern Cal 1-0-0 780 9. UCLA 1-0-0 777 10. Texas A&M 1-0-0 544 11. Missouri 1-0-0 516 12. Nebraska 1-1-0 462 13 Louisiana State 0-0-0 460 14. Pittsb~rgh 0-0-0 394 15. Notre Dame 0-1-0 379 16. Florida State 1-0-0 353 17. Kentucky 0-0-0 299 18 Washington 0-1-0 235 19. Iowa State 1-0-0 142 
20. Maryland 1-0-0 132 
Hunter leads soccer team 
[continued from page 8] taking money out of his own pocket so that his team could play an away 
***** 

Notre Dame opened their season last Friday with a 3-0 win over St. Louis Community College at Carti­er Field. The Irish are at home again tonight, as they take on Tri-State University, beginning at 7 
p.m. at Cartier. Details on both of these games will be featured in tomorrow's Observer. 
Tund1y, September 12, 1871 
the obseryar 

New law affecting sports 
[continued from page 8] hoping to see sonie results soon. These areas are: 
--The increase of professional women in athletics on campus. ''The women need more than one model role in the professional field to follow," said Hotvedt, "and that means more women coaches." 
--The increase of women in the area of sports medicine. According to Hotvedt, "many women who are interested in medicine are not able to get on-the-job training in the sports-medicine field. The women are being deprived of the educa­tional value to learn skills that are supervised by competent adult trainers." 
--The need for locker rooms and access to training facilities. --The need for women in the publicity and sports information 
Hotvedt feels that there is "not a lot of cooperation" among Univer­sity officials and organizat¥>n is badly needed to straighten out the conflict. "If the University is not organized to give teams time to practice, then a team can't get going," said Hotvedt. 
With the expansion of the different sports and the program in general, the need for scholarships may need some considerations, according to Hotvedt. Presently, Notre Dame is a part of a ''non­sholarship" division of the Associa­tion of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AlA W) and Hotvedt has chosen to remain there until at least 1980. 
This division places Notre Dame beside other colleges with similar programs, allowing them the choice to compete with other schools who have large scholarship programs or to remain in the non-scholarship competition. According to Hotvedt, remaining in this division is beneficial to ND, at least until a larger women's program, complete with scholar­ships and a bigger budget, is developed. 
On the whole, Hotvedt is pleased with the program at ND. "There are no major hassles with our budget, with our equipment or our facilities -other than the pool conflict," said Hotvedt. 
"What needs to be done now is to concentrate upon the four areas that were submitted in the evalua­tion to get things rolling,'' said Hotvedt. 

area. "There is a big void for good IFr-=-=-=·=--=--=-=--=·~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!'~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 

women reporters in the aspect of selling sports through media," said Hotvedt. Hotvedt feels that the University's Sports Information Department is understaffed (accen­tuated by the work resulting from ND winning the football national 
PHONE 
234-6767 
A new dimension in hair designsfor the aware man and woman 

,•, 4 ...••
,'{' 
.,_.·.

.' 
.. ' 


hllfly, s.,......, 12, 1171
the obsanrar
8 

Hunter, gives all for ND and soccer 
personality. "Those things don't mean any-,He expects his students to wort., thing when you really think about 
but he makes the learning enjoy-it. The people I've met here at The lights are on at Cartier Field able. His classes are loosely Notre Dame are much more impor­Friday night, 
and two teams art structured because he feels that the tant to me. Anyway, I consider ­
going through their warm-up exer­best wo.y to learn is when one is Notre Dame to be my home." cises as the crowd is beginning to relaxed. He relates to his students According to his players, not develop at the gate. Away from the on their level and never talks enough can be said about the man. playing surface, the crowd and the down to them. He leads them. he helps them. He players a lone figure paces the "H you treat students like gives them confidence and inspira­perimeter of the field, on the valuable people, they'll never tum tion. There are no player-coach outside of the fence. He strolls on you," offers Hunter. "I've conflicts on the team-just mutual slowly, silently, totally absorbed in never had a discipline problem in respect. his thoughts. Still serious, yet teaching or coaching and never Co-captain Ted Carnevale sums greeting nearly everyone, he enters expect I will." it up; "We all respect Rich the gate and takes his place on the The Belmar, New Jersey native tremendously both as a coach and sidelines. conducts the ssoccer team with this as a person. This mutual respect is 
The man is Rich Hunter, Notre same looseness. He sees his job as unique because most coaches put Dame head soccer coach and it's coach as more motivational then themselves above their players, the opening game of the 1978 instructional. thus creating an ever-existing gap. soccer season. Most people who "It is my job as coach to get the Not Rich. He won't even let us call know him would not recognize him most out of every player," he him coach. now in the solemn, somber state, explains. "To do that all a coach "Everyone who plays for him for he is generally known as a has to do is make the player aware always gives 110 percent because funny, quick-witted type who of his capabilities. If he does that, we know he does the same for us," always wears a smile.But for now it regardless of the won-loss record, adds Carnevale. is strictly· the business at hand. he is successful. The players do all Regardless of what his players For the next two hours the only the work; I just have to give them say about him, Hunter refuses to thing that matters is the game. the confidence they need to do their take any credit for the soccer When the game is over, however, best." team's sudden success. He main­Hunter becomes himself again -Ever since the soccer team voted tains that everything good that joking with the players, shaking him as coach in the spring of 1977, happens to the team is a direct hands with spectators and, in Hunter's dedication has been re-result ofthe work that they put into general, enjoying the victory. lentless. Last year he turned down it. 
Away from the soccer field, Rich a job offer from the Carter Ad-"I don't see how a coach could Hunter means alot of different ministration because "I had made ever be credited with a win," things to alot of different people. a commitment to the soccer team." Hunter said. "The players are the To some he is a practicing attorney­The job offered was Assistant ones doing the work on the field. A at-law. To others he is their Counsel to the President (the same coach can get a team prepared for a business-law professor. And to position that John Dean occupied), game but he can never be re­others he is a referee and assistant and it was a tempting lure. He was sponsible for a win." director of non-varsity athletics. offered money, prestige, power -For years Rich Hunter has given But regardless of how he is known, everything we are suppose to want. himself to this university, never 
j 

one thing always comes forth when But for Hunter there are more accepting praises. Whether he's 
Rich Huntar; attorney, business-law professor, aulstant director of 
mentioning Mr. Hunter-his likable important things. [continued on page 7] 
non-varsity athletics, and, above all, Notre Dame's soccer caach. [Photo by David Rumbach) ,_... '1~.;;--,.-.-..,, .........~.:• •··Ri r,s-a.... n; ..ll. ·' 
Title IX changes women's sports 
by Debbie Dahrling receives (in any way, shape, or create an awareness of athletics," Women's Sports Editor form) federal funds. Strongly said Hotvedt, "the awareness that leaning toward sports programs, all athletes are not male and that 
The summer of 1978 could be the regulations of Title IX were there should no longer be a considered as one full of sensation­issued on June 21. 1975, and stereotype as to what type of al breakthroughs for women's colleges were given three years to person an athlete should be." sports. Many of these break­adopt a plan to eliminate sex bias in How will Title IX affect Notre throughs became major news event intercollegiate, club, and intramur­Dame? "It is too early in the game and some even became household al sports. to say what the major changes will topics. Basically, Title IX says equal be," said Hotvedt, "but there is 
Most notably was the attention opportunity is a right for equality in open dialogue between Moose brought to women's professional the provision of coaches, scholar­Krause and other University of­golf by 21-year-old rookie Nancy ships, equipment, locker rooms, ficials about our programs and its Lopez. Winning six consecutive training facilities, scheduling and timetable." Ladies Professional Golf Associa­publicity. However, it does not say There are four varsity women tion tournaments, Lopez recruited that a sport must produce revenue sports at NO as compared to 11 for many fans for the women's tour. to earn equal support. men. The women's field hockey 
Tennis fans were either Notre Dame complied with the team is the latest to gain varsity delighted or disappointed when· regulation and submitted an evalu­status. Hotvedt feels that this Martina Navratilova upset the top­ation of their women's sports additional varsity sport is a move in seeded Chris Evert in the Wimble­program by the June 21. 1978, the positive direction for ND wo­don finals in July. deadline describing the opportuni­men. "Field hockey is balancing 

But perhaps the biggest break­ties and the scope of the present out our program ideals and it is a through for women's athletic program and what improvements good step to move toward other programs, especially for college could be made. varsity sports in a rational man­programs, occurred on June 21, According to Astrid Hotvedt, ner," said Hotvedt. 
1978 -the effective date of Title IX. coordinator of women's sports at Four major areas of change and
Title IX should aid In the dnelepment ef wemn's 1p1rl1 11111 
Title IX is a provision of the Notre Dame, the regulation will development that were included in 
fencing. 

Education Amendment Act of 1972 probably result in many law suits, Notre Dame's evaluation are now that prohibits sex descrimination in but that is not the intent of Title IX. being worked on and Hotvedt is any activity in any school 1hat "The actual intent of the law is to [continued on page 7] 
Notre Dame netters fall to Valpo 
by Bill CaldweD Sports Writer match with the no. 2 singles state darkness. champ, LeAnn Beringer. Barton In the final match of the after-· 
The Notre Dame women's varsi­lost the match 6-0, 6-2. noon, the Irish doubles team of ty tennis team dropped their first The most heartbreaking defeat of 
Laura and Sheila Cronin defeated match of the season to Valparaiso the afternoon occured in the no. 5 the team of Lisa Gast and Barb University Monday by a score of singles play as Mary Legeay, a Bittman 6-2, 6-3. S-4. freshman from Notre Dame, lost to Coach Sharon Petro was pleasedValpo, the defending state Dina Johnson of Valpo. The first with the team's effort, considering 
champs, had their hands full with set went to Johnson 7-5 but in the that Valparaiso had defeated Notre the Fighting Irish. In the no. 4 second set the score was reversed Dame 7'h-1 '12 in a match last year. singles match, Notre Dame fresh­in favor of Legeay. The third and Coach Petro feels that one reason man Cecilia Walsh defeated Lisa deciding set proved too much for the women netters are much Huizema by a score of 6-4, 6-3. the young Legeay, as she was improved this season is the added 
Another freshman, Stacy Obrenas­narrowly defeated 6-4. 
depth that the freshmen players

ky. in an excellent performance 1 Notre Dame faired much better have provided the team. defeated Laura Sanders 6-2, in the doubles as the Irish won two 
The Irish take to the courts this 

6-1. Unfortunately for the Irish, of three matches. in the no. 1 coming Saturday, as Notre Dame the other four singles players did doubles the team of Shukis and 
and Saint Mary's co-host a tourna­not fair well. Barton were defeated by Giannis ment. The matches start at 8:30 
No. I singles players, Mary and Beringer 6-1, 6-2. This AM at both the Notre Dame and Shukis, was soundly defeated by doubles team from Valpo are also Saint Mary's courts. The other 
Patty Giannisl 6-0, 6-2. It was of the defending doubles champs. schools that will be competing are 
little consolation to the Irish that In the no. 2 doubles play, the Ball State University, Elmhurst Giannis is the defending state­team of Walsh and Legeay College, St. Francis College of champ in no. 1 singles play. defeated their Valparaiso counter­Illinois, Taylor University, the Uni­Jean Barton, Notre Dame's no. 2 parts by a score of 10-6. The ten versity of Dayton, and Valparaiso Jean Barton [left] and Mary Shukla lost to their Valpe opponuts In player also was outplayed in her game pro set was played due to University . no. 1 doubles [Photo by David Rumbuh] 

. .. .. 






