.
..
', 

The Observer 
an inj'pendent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No. 57 ~ Thursday, November 30, 1978 
For RA applicants 
Green revises selection process 
by Mazy Ann Wissel said. "It will be at the discretion of members of Hall Head Staff Staff Reporter the individual Rector to determine (Rectors and Assistant Rectors, not whether, when and how, the can­RAs); and one from a former 
Due to a possible housing prob-didates wilJ be interviewed. employer. 
• !em with its consequent early By March 1, "it is expected that "Last year this was a require­contract time, the Resident Assis­all rectors will have presented a ment, however, it was not followed tant (R.A.) selection process sche­complete list of RA choices to our by all applicants. Many students dule has been shortened. Accord­office. But, I suggest that rectors had RAs write recommendations ing to Fr. Gregory Green, inform all their candidates of their for them. It is not that we don't assistant vice-president for student (the rector's) decisions. trust the RA's recommendations, affairs, both the time of application The rector's decisions will be but we'd rather save them the time and interview have been reduced. considered final if no outlandish it takes to complete the recommen­"These times have been shorten­information about them has dation forms," Green said. · ed so that all RA applicants will reached us," Green stated. As decided by the Board of knnw of their status earlier in the Appointed candidates will pe Trustees last year, financ~al need event that housing plans a sooner notified of their selection. Letters as demonstrated by the Parents ccntract date," Green said. "I am of appreciation will also be sent to Confidential Statement is not a grateful to the rectors for agreeing those not selected. requirement. "But rectors have to this earlier date because I know ''The length of the application always considered need while that the burden ultimately falls on time period is not the only change making a selection between equals, them," Green emphasized. from last year's RA selection so the rectors are urged to be RA a~~lications can be picked up process. Most of the application sensitive to the individual appli­in person with I.D.s in the Student form has also been changed," cants financial status," Green Affairs Office, 315 Administration Green noted. stated. Building, from Dec. 4 to Jan. 1. The hall preference question on The Campus Life Council (CLC) Since the application period con­the form has been changed from proposed on Nov. 13 that incoming cludes during Christmas break, listing the applicant's first three senior RA candidates be given Gre~n encourages students who choices of halls to merely listing the priority consideration over are undecided about making appli­halls which the applicants wishes to graduate candidates in an attempt catin to take out application . seek interview. to provide more housidg accomo­materials before they leave for ''This was done to help alleviate dations for undergraduates, Green vacation, and , if during the the problems incurred in past years explained. vacation they so decide, have them when applicants had to list their "But, I think that rectors should then complete the appropriate hall preferences--then rectors have the freedom to select who forms. · would only interview those appli­they want because they are the All completed applications, in­cants who listed their halls as the ones who will be working with the cluding applicants required re­first choice," Green explained. RAs," Green said. commendations, must be returned "A question; entitles the Members of Head Hall Staff in to the Student Affairs Office by Situational Comment, was added to each dorm received packets yester­Jan. 22. This filing deadling has this year's application and should day containing information perti­also been shortened. Green will be of interest to the hall rectors,'' nent to the process. In these· briefly screen the applications, Green said. The question requests packets, Green outlines the pro­checking for the necessary qualifi­the applicant to comment on an ceedure so that hall staffs would be cations and requirements. By excerpt from a conversation be­familiar with the process. January 30, all applicants wil hear tween two students. The excerpt Walsh Hall Rector, Sr. Kathleen from Student Affairs whether or came from a South Bend Tribune Rossman noted that the shortened not they passed the initial screen­article on Orientation at Notre time period is really no problem for ing. Dame. her. "We usually don't have that 
By Feb. 4, candidates are re­Again this year three re­many applicants. quired to contact the rectors of the commendations will be required for The shorter time should be "hall of choice" to discuss the each applicant. Two must come beneficial to all rectors because we possibiWy of an interview, Green from members (or former [continued on page 11] 


White's charge of murder. carries the death penalty , 
SAN FRANCISCO [AP] -Former ''The family needs time. He City Supervisor Dan White, charg­needs time," Eisenberg told a ed with murdering San Francisco's crush of reporters and cameramen 
mayor and another city official outside the courtroom. He refused made a brief appearance in a to comment on White's emotional heavily guarded courtroom yester­state. 
day but .his arraignment was White, a 32-year-old former fire­
postponed to allow time for him to man and policeman, was charged get an attorney. with two counts of first-degreeWhite, wearing a bri~ht orange murder in Monday's gunshot slay­
prison jumpsuit, was 'biting his lip ing of Mayor George Moscone and as he was led into court by two Supervisor Harvey Milk, the city's bailiffs. Police officers ringed the first avowed homosexual offidal, 
courtroom. Outside, reporters and District Attorney Joseph Freitas spectators were thoroughly search­charged White under a statute ed before being admitted. covering "special circumstances" 
White did not speak during the• of murder which would require the three-minute hearing. He nodded death penalty if White is con­his head when Municiipal Court victed. Judge R.J. Reynolds asked if he California voters earlier this 
waived immediate an:aignment , month approved a measure extend-. but he did not even glance towards ing the death penalty to the murder the spectator section where his of public officials. The death 
wife, Mary Ann, sat with other penalty already applied to multiplerelatives. murder White's temporary attorney, Judge Re~nolds set White's 
Gilbert Eisenberg, did not seek bail hearing for Dec. 6 and said the for White. He requested the defendant should be prepared to continuance in White's behalf. 
[continued on page 101 


Msgr. Geno C. Baroni,•assistant secretary for neighborhoods for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development spoke yesterday at the Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture [photo by john Macor] 

Six quakes and aftershocks cause distruction in Mexico 
MEXICO CITY [AP]· Six strong strong tremor that swayed tall 

earthquakes and aftershocks jolted buildings on Paseo de Ia Reforma the capital and much of southern Boulevard. The ground continued Mexico yesterday, damaging build­to roll sporadically in a soft, rocking 
ings and causing panic in towns motion into the early eveningand villages from the Atlantic to hours. the Pacific. 
Cornices and masonry fell from 

Officials said more than 100 many buildings. Some balconies persons were injured, but Capt. hung crazily. The subway system Juan Asencio Loredo, head of the was stopped temporarily but was Red Cross national ambulance back in service soon after the 
service, said, "There are no deaths tremors stopped.caused by the earthquakes." 
In Mexico City, hospital emer­The quakes shattered windows, gency rooms reported more than 

shook buildings and sent thousands 106 injuries. A nurse at one hugeof office workers into the streets of 
medical complex said, "We have Mexico City. 

11 people in theemergencyand they In a downtown hotel, "The bed are still coming in." started moving and a large opening Fire department officials said at 
·came between the walls," said least four fires were caused by the Yvonne Nestro of Pueblo, Colo. earthquake. Televsion and radio ''The new and old parts of the stations warned about fallen high 
building came apart about a foot power electrical wires. and a half. I jumped over "\he 
Ambulance sirens whined through opening to get to the stairs.'' 

the center of town, but electricity 

Vivian Garner, 38, of Hacken­and other essential services sack, N.J., said she "saw every­appeared to be functioning nor­thing shaking" and there "was a mally. 
tidal wave in the swimming pool" The first tremor lasted 70 seconds, at her hotel. officials said, and was felt strongly 
Federal inspectors said some in Oaxaca City, Cuernavaca, and in buildings were seriously damaged Chiapas State. but that none were destroyed. The Dr. Jaime Yamamoto_ of the inspectors said some buildings Tacubaya Seismological station twisted on their foundations, but here said all six quakes qualified as did not cave in. earthquakes but that all but the 
The tremors -measured as high first were "remnants of energy" 

as 7.9 on the Richter scale -rolled from the first shifting in the earth's through this city of 13 million crust. beginning at 2:53 p.m. EST. The Seismographs measured the first tremor was followed hi 12 quake between 6.5 and 7.9 on the minutes· by a shorter quake and Richter Scale. A reading of 7 is about an hour later by another considered a major earthquake. 
;. 
..;• 

Thursday, November 30, 1978
the observer_
2 

~News Brie__ rs_____"""""' 

Neieir warns of witch hunts 
SYRACUSE,N.Y.-Aryeh Neieir, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, says he is worried about a potential witch hunt against religious cults as a result of the mass killings and suicides at Jim Jones' Peoples Temple Encampment in Guyana. 
''Obviously after the tragedy of Guyana everybody is going to be a great deal more suspicious of the various religious groups,'' Neier said before lecturing at Syracuse University Tuesday night. 
"I hope this doesn't turn out to be a precedent for a witch hunt into all kinds of religious groups," he said. Neier specifically warned against any legislation requiring religious groups to disclose the sources of their finances. 
Profits raise with hemlines 
CINCINATII-The fashion world is predicting higher hemlines are
• 
on the way--uplifting news to the U.S. Shoe Corp. With leg and ankle on display, women pay more attention to , footwear, says corporate chairman Philip Barach, and "The bright colors and shortening of dresses and skirts give cause for optimism." ' Thomas H. Voss, a corporation vice president, suggests that disco dancing may also have something to do with the heightened interest in shoes. ·· "Let's put it this way. How often have you seen a disco picture without high heels," he said. · 
Lottery winner splits prize 
NEW YORK-Sylvia Aguila was grateful anyway when she was told that "due to a mistake" she would have to share the $41,375 she won from the state lottery with two other people. 
Mrs. Aguila, a 40-year-old Colombian-born Bronx housewife, was introduced Tuesday as the winner of $41,735 in the New York State Lottery's "Lotto" game. That was the largest payoff to date. 
'I can't believe it," she said at the time, the tears falling from her eyes. 
But yesterday the New York State Lottery announced that Mrs. Aguila would have to share the prize with Ann DaP•-.is and P.M. Capaffo. The winners will get $13,911.50 each. Well, if God decided that I share the money, so be it," she said. 

Weather 

Becoming partly sunny this afternoon with highs in the mid to upper 30s. Cloudy and cold tonight and tomorrow with lows in the upper teens to the low 20s and highs tomorrow in the low to mid 30s. 
,_On Campus ·Today_.............,
, 

10 am-2 pm sale, "st. francis shoppe of third world handicrafts," sponsored by amnesty international and hunger coal it ion, Iafortune center 
3:30pm lecture, "eremitism in the twelth century," by prof. giles constable, sponsored by the medieval institute at nd, memorial library, rm. 715 
4 pm lecture, "why isn't there a darwinia.n social science?," prof. robin fox, rutgers u., .hb. aud., sponsored by the music dept. 
5:15pm mass, in memory of Donald J. Thorman, late publisher-editor of the National Cathol1c Reporter, Sacred Heart Church 
.e 

6 pm-11 pm sale, third world handicrafts, lib. concourse 
6:30pm madrigal dinner, advance registration only, regina north lounge-smc 
7,9,11 pm film, "the three musketeers/' eng. aud., $1 
7 pm lecture, ''acupuncture,'' dr. sung s. kim, 242 o'shag 
7:30pm meeting, notre dame rugby club, second floor Iafortune 
8pm seminar, "familiars in a ruinstrewn land," prof. sean golden, lib. loung:e 
informational meeting, operational crossroads africa, area studies rm., 12th floor library 
8pm lecture, "the liturgical act: reflections on the viability of worship," prof. mark searle, arch. aud., sponsored by the theology dept. 
• 

Feminists sponsor march and'Two Women' 
Tomorrow night, the film, •'Tw·o Women,''starring Sophia 
will be shown in the library auditorium. Following the film, there will be a march and rally 
sponsored by the Fort Wayne Feminists. 
Saturday's activities include "Not Me: A Discussion On Rape," a dramatic presentation on the issue of rape using the actual works of rapists and rape victims. The presentation will take place form 9-11 a.m. at the Student Union Building; Indiana-University­Purdue University at Fort Wavne. 
The presentation "The Evolution of Rape Laws" will be held at 11:15 
11:15 a.m. followed by lunch. 
Andrea Medea, a noted self defense instructor and writer, will close the week's activities with a le,~ture at 3:45 p.m. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher Asst. Night Editors: Dave Brosh, Kathie Tighe Copy Reader: Tim Joyce, Michael Ridenour Layout Staff: Bea Witzleben Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Features Layout: Karen Caruso, Adonis Sports Layout: Debbie Dahr­ling Typists: Tricia Meehan, Rosie 
Rodgers,  Mardi  Nevin,  Beth  
Willard  
Early  Morning  Typist:  Lisa  
DiValerio  

Day Editor: Keith Melaragno Ad Layout: Matt 'could be a horse race' DeSalvo & Rookie 
Barb Photographer: John Macor Guest Photographer: The Rafts 
/ The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tl!e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year (S I 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4U56. . The Observer Is a member of the Anoclated '""-n. All repro­dudlon rights are reserved.  
need resumes in a hurry? I insty-prints the wiz of the printint biz! rag bond 8 125 · /2 X 11 $2.55 20J N. Mc:un So Bend 289 69 7  
air Styling "fl. for men and women who like to look their best... 277•0734 %mile north of campus, (U.S. 31 N) Across from Randall's Inn  

Become a professional community organizerwith ACORN Individual appointments Vol. Services OHice Fri, Dec l, l-3:30 Group Meeting Lafortune theater Frl, Dec l, 3:30pm Loren, =-=-c::xx:~e~o=-c::xx:~e~oi:)4::XX:IC~OI:)4::XX)CIC)O~  
5:15 mass and supper 0THURSDAY NIGHT SPECIAL =' NICKlE'S Cans of Miiler, Ute, Bud, Strohs, Pabst, Busch ~ Oiympia  
Greyhound Rx. The cure for college blahs. It's a feeling that slowly descends upon you. The exams, the pop tests, the required reading, the hours at the library, the thesis­ 

they won't go away. 
But you can. This weekend, take off, say hello to your frie· ds, see the sights, have a great time. You'll arrive with money in your pocket because your Greyhound trip doesn't take that much out of it. 
If you're feeling tired, depressed and exhausted, grab a Greyhound and split. It's a sure cure for the blahs. 
Greyhou11d Service  
To  One-way ·Round-Tr ip Leave  Arrive  
Chicago Cleveland Pittsburgh Detroit Milwaukee  $ 8.10 $22.05 $32.80 $17.15 $13.50  $15.40 $41.90 $62.35 $32.60 $25.65  10:20 am 7:00am 12:50 pm 11:35 am 1:50pm  11:15 am 1:50pm 11:20 pm 4:55pm 6:00pm  
Phone  

Call 287-6541 
~­




GO 61lEYIIOIIIJ 


Guyana survivors return to U.S. 
NEW YORK [API-Seven el­derly, penniless members of the decimated Peoples Temple cult returned to the United States from Guyana yesterday. 
Only two of the seven actually were at Jonestown last week when Rep. Leo J. Ryan, D-Calif. and four others were killed on an airstrip and more than 900 followers of the Rev. Jim Jones died in a mass suicide-murder. 
Regular passengers aboard the Pan American flight from Timehri to Kennedy International Airport in New York were being allowed to disembark first, then federal officials were to board the craft to talk, with the survivors. It was to be left up to the individual survivors to decide whether to talk to the media. 
''I'm just taking one step at a time," said cult member Raymond Godhalk, 62. of Los Angeles, before leaving Guyana. "I need a few days to think things over. I lost my companion of 38 years. Her name is Viola. She's my wife. Naturally I felt quite badly about it, but you can't cryoverspiiled milk." 
Guyanese authorities said the other 72 survivors of the Jonestown tragedy would not be released until it is certain thev are not material witnesses of suspects in the mur· ders of Ryan. other members of his party and cultists in Georgetown. Two survivors already are being held in connection with the Ryan killings. 
The lawyer for Charles E. Beik· 
man charged with murdering cult 
member Sharon Amon and her 
three children at the sect's head­
quarters in Georgetown said yes­
terday he has tiled a writ of habeas corpus for the release of two 
whose testimony he said was vital 
to his client's defense. 
Attorney Rex MLKay said Paula 
Adams and Deborah Touchette. 

Assembly meets 
Ellen Budd}'_ Assistant St. Mary's Editor 
Last night the Saint Mary's Student Assembly met brief1v to discuss necessary-business. Fi~n­cial Aid information was the first topic of the meeting. presented by Cindy Sofranko, student represen­tative from the Financial Aid Office. 
Sofranko discussed the programs that are available to Saint Mary's women and explained that the Financial Aid Office wanted to make the information more readily available to all students. 
She said, "As long as we can prove that we have more students who are in need of financial aid, we can obtain more Federal money, thus distributing more among the students." 
The three programs Sofranko mentioned that are available are: loans, work-study and scholar· ships. All require consideration of 
the  parents'  income,  students'  
income  and  expenses  and  the  
students'  savings  and  checkings  
accounts.  

Once aid is obtained the student must re-apply annually and main· tain a GPA of 3.0. 
Campus Employment is another program that Sofranko mentioned. It is separate from the Financial Aid Programs in that it is not federally funded and not aas many statements need to be filled out. 
The second topic on the agenda pertai'ned to a questionnaire sent to students concerning the possibility of providing a gynecologist on cttmpus. 
The committee, which consists of six students and one administrator, will meet this evening to review the questionnaires and discuss them. 
The last business of the evening concerned Women's Opportunity Week(WOW). According to Student Body President. Gail Darragh. they hope to move away from straight lectures and aim toward more audience partici­both cultists.•were at the George­Guyanese authorities refused to town headquarters Nov. 18 when allow them to leave without express the four were slain. They are approval ofthe U.S. Embassy. One among survivors held by Guyana other survivor, 84 year old Miguel authorities. A preliminary hearing DePina, was allowed to leave is set Dec. 4 for Beikman, 43, of earlier. Indianapolis. The Guyanese Cabinet appointed 

The other six aboard the plane an administrator for the cult's were identified as Hyacinth Jonestown settlement, 150 miles Thrash, 76, who missed the mass northwest of Georgetown, where poisoning because she was asleep; more than 900 followers of the Rev. Grover Davis, 79, who hid in a Jim Jones participated in a mass ditch; Alvaray Satterwhite, 61; murder-suicide rite following the Marian Campbell, 61; Madeline R~an shooting Nov. 18. Brooks, 73, and Carol Young, 78. 
The seven carried few belong­Miss Thrash and Miss Brooks are ings; some wore tennis shoes.
from San Francisco and Davis said They spoke briefly with reportershe was from Los Angeles. The as they left Georgetown and thenHometowns of the others could nc' as they passed through customsbe learned. 

here. Miss Thrash and Davis, the only Godshalk, a temple member for ones of the group who were in 13 years who had been in Guyana 
Jonestown' during the mass only two months, said he had deaths, have stayed in a hotel respect for Jones. "I like what he since. The other five, who were was doing," he said. "He was 
travelling or at the Georgetown helping people and taking the part headquarters, were kept under of the underdog. I guess I've heavy· guard at the cult head­always done that before I met him, quarter. but in a minor way." 
This semester break take advantage of Continental"s price break on air­fares. We'll take -you to the snow in Colorado, the sun on either coast, or the warmth of your family circle. And you'll save enough to live it up once you get there. Fly anyplace Continental flies on the mainland and save up to SO% off regular Coach, depending on when and where you go. Of course, there are some restrictions and you must purchase your tickets in advance. 
Even if you get a sudden itch to travel, Continental can save you some scratch without an advance purchase. We have the only system-wide* discount fare without restrictions. It'll save you up to 20% any night, 10% any day that we have seats available. 
Call your Campus Representative, Travel Agent or Continental Airlines. We'd love to give you a break. 
*mainland only 
We really move our tail for you. 



CONTIN.ENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Birdwith the Golden Tail. 




p~til'n 



*************************************~··~~~~~~~~~~-·~~··~ 
-tc What to q1v€ . ~ ~oR ChRistmas qot you puzzl€0? 
: ! ! ! (jtve aBook ! ! ! 
• the notRe Oame hamnes BookstoRe 
Books ~OR €V€RY ffi€ffiB€R 0~ YOUR ~am1ly
• 
•
•

********************* 
*********************~ 

1


1Thursday 
I 

1I Friday 
I


I Saturday
1 

~-----------------------~--------------­


a ChetGrant 
authot 


a Dan Devine 
Introducer 

will autogtaphyout petsonal copy 
Ftiday, Dec.l .... 7-9pm. Libtaty Lounge 
sponsored by the Football OHice & Icarus Ptess 

A lasting Christmas Gift for thats ecial someone 

Seniors buy fewer Bowl tix 

Big Band Jazz with The Monday &Tuesday NightJazz Bands 9-??? this year than last year
Guitarist Greg Hull 9-11 
by Don Schmid


Duane Gels &Rich Stevenson 11-??? 
StUdent deinand for Cotton Bowl Football Tickets is "down consid·

Jim Speier &co. 9:30-??? 
erably from last year" according to

the very best folk rock rock on campus Mike Busick, ticket manager. Only 100 tickets of the 2700 available 
----~----------------------------­

Only 100 Cotton Bowl tickets were sold to seniors yesterday during the first day of sales. [photoby john Macor] 
were sold to seniors yesterday, the 
first day of sales. 

Busick cited a number of 'causes 
for a decline in the demand for 
tickets this year. "The fact that 
there was a senior trip to California 
for the Southern Cal game this year 
and the fact that the Cotton Bowl 
game will not decide the national 
championship are the primary 
reasons for it,'' Busick commented. 
Busick added that he expects most of the student allotment of tickets will go to students who live in the Texas area. 
Ticket order forms for contri­buting alumni' and faculty were · mailed out last Friday. Busick said that it was too early to judge the demand for tickets by alumni and faculty. 
Juniors, graduate students, and law school students can purchase tickets today for $6.50 each, a 48 percent discount from the regular ticket price. Sophomores will be able to purchase tickets tomorrow and Freshmen may obtain tickets on Monday. 
The ticket window will be open 9 
a.m. to S p.m. on the second floor of the ACC for students who wish to purchase tickets. 



Rape Awareness week continues 
Rape Awareness Week, funded' by the Indiana Committee for the Humanities, will continue through Sunday in Fort Wayne. 
Tonight there will be a lecture by nationally known sociologist Pauline Bart, at 7:30 p.m. The topic for the lecture is "Rape as a Paradigm For Sexism in Society. 
,---------------------------------------~
The Nazz is backwith Big Band Jazz 



Better Reasons Needed 
Father John Vcr~ Wolvlear finally cr~noun<Ed his decision against the Stu­dent Union rerord store proposal shortly before break. Unfortuna1ely, Vcr~ Wolv­lear' s long-awaited decision lacks the cohesive crgurrent necessary to rrake It acceptable. 
Vcr~ Wolvlear first asseMs there is no real need for a rerord store, although "students are interested in purchasing rerords." But during his long-term consideration of the proposal Vcr~ Wolvlear had stated there was a need. He had questioned whether this need M>Uid be best rret by a lcrgeorganizationsuch as the SU, or a group of srraller busineses similar to Ranr~er Realrds. 
The second so called reason Vcr~ Wolvlear giveS for his rejection is that "it is not the rrain function of Student Union to get involved in operating businesses." This absurd staterrent ignores the fact that Student Union is a business which hcr~dles over a mi Ilion dollars each year. By operating rrany srraller businesses -Carrpus Press, ticket office, refrigerator rentals-Student Union rreets the needs of students. By saying it is not the rrairi function of SU to get involved in 


======P.O. Box Q=== 
Not convinced 

Dear Editor: I qu!'stion the method with which the movement to start an Indiana Public Interest Research Group chapter on the ND campus is attempting to raise funds. Al­though an organization such as InPRIG may have its merits, I, for one, feel that "mandatory refund status" violates the rights of the students. Don't the recycled posters all over campus imply that lnPRIG will stand up for our rights? The right I feel is violated is that of a positive, willing control of my hard earned money and that of my parents. I feel that if I want to give money to a particular orgnaization, I will. I don't particularly apprec­iate any group or organization assuming that I will be willing to give $2 every semester. So if I decide that I don't want to give the money that has been taken from me, I have to go chase it down. Personally, I would rather my money went to the American Cancer Society or one of hundreds of organizations with more pressing needs. Why don't we start petitions for "mandatory refund­able status" for all the worthy charities? I also question the organization of the ND lnPRIG movement. Although Ralph Nader has ftlled the workers with commendable enthusiasm, I see several
. 
OA:4Y, KIRBY. IUHIIT Af?E tu8/?CA/.J..Y AFTER HE!?E? [){)we. KNOW WH.Ifr 
0/JR 60AL IS? 
\ 

raise the money, and if we seeproblems. 
some kind of outline of objectivesDidn't InPRIG get funding from and priorities clearly spelled outthe University several years ago? , and a detailed list of expenses.
From what I understand, $15,000 Only the CIA is exempt from this was sent to InPRIG headquarters last requirement. I contend thatfor Indiana and money for ND was the current petitions are invalid to be applied for. Apparently less because they are misleading.
than half of this amount made its way bace to Domeland. Paul T. Schweitzer 
Spend some time and ask some of the petitioners about InPIRG. "Clearly stressed that the. group 

Concerned
would deal primareily with campus related issues ... " (Observer Dear Editor: 11/16). Petitioners would have you VIe express our profound concern believe that this would mean better that the Central Intelligence lighting, better security, and im­Agency has once again been 
provements or changes in laundry welcomed to recruit at Notre Dame. and food services. I understand that when the University last . . 
allocated money for InPIRG, they oplnlon====~====================================== placed a stipulation on it saying that the funds could not be used against the University. Clearly the 

The Graduate Perspective
Board of Trustees (the petitions_ go 
to them) are not about to support· =::===================================================;;;;;;;;:;;:::::::::::barrv o'connor 
an organization that they will have to fight against. 
In the editorial of the November Or ask the workerswhat InPIRG is 
14th issue of The Observer, which going to do with $32,000 per year. 
dealt with the problem of over­Responses typically range from 
crowding in undergraduate hous­"We'll hire a staff person" to 
ing, a point was made regarding "We'll get the money first and 
the conversion of campus graduate then decide how to spend it". I 
· housing to undergraduate use: guess that staff person will do 
That such reallocation was in public interest research, whatever 
keeping with the principle in loco that is. parentis; and that, in any case, I say ok to InPIRG if donations necessity required the University to 
(positive affirmations) are used to submit to this reallocation. 
I find it somewhat difficult to 
keep a straight face when con­fronted with such machiavellian ex­pediency and moral hypocricy all in one paragraph. First, I must doubt the sincerity of any attempt by undergraduates to wrap them­selves in theflag of in loco parentis. Such a ploy must be viewed, at the least, as "tongue in cheek," and at the most as a valiant effort to find "that little bit of good in all that evil." This endeavor at Realpolitik reduces itself to the subtlety of a sledge hammer. And .even if it were to be taken seriously, in loco parentis could not be a basis for the solution to the housing problem. This principle.-t, for the most part, is self-enforcing. That is to say, the· 
undergrad is morally bound to live by its standards whether on or off campus. To argue in the manner of 1\he Observer editorial is the cheapest form of sophistry. I would caution against under­graduates embracing this prin­ciple; you ought to ki)OW by experience that it is a two-edged 
sword.  •  
Regarding  the  premise  of  ne­ 
cessity  which  was  so  baldy  put  

forth:itconfounds me that the same group of men and women who are daily in a state of perplexltas over the status of student "rights" should so casually ignore and even 
businesses, Van Wolvlear is virtually saying SU should not exist or should close their businesses. 
In addition to these inadequa1e reasons, Van Wolvlear explained that the Student Union Activities Office receives frequent requests from students who want to set up their O'MI businesses. "In order to be consistent, we have to refuse group requests as well as individual requests." Once again, Van Wolvlear has ignored the basic purpose of the Student Union. The Union is not a group, it is an orgcr~ization designed to rreet student demands cr~d, because of its purpose, deserves to be considered as a special case. 
Van Wolvlear also lists "extraneous" reasons which include issues such as security, inventory and continuity. These argurrents are "extraneous." They do not add anything to the weak reasoning because they have already been oountered. 
The Student Union rerord store proposal was soundly researched, as Van Wolvlear admitted. A rejection of the proposal deserves the oourtesy of a sound argu­rrent. Until such an argurrent is offered, Van Wolvlear's decision cannot be accepted as final. 
------~----------­



%The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editori?ls represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt 'Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor~ Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewls News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
Doug Christian Photo Edjtor 
Mardi Nevin Production M.:mager John Tucker Business Manager Bob Rudy Advertising Manager 
Thursday, November 30, 1978 

The Agency's illegal and unjust activities have been so well docu­mented that they can no longer be denied or ignored. The CIA's indiscriminate spying on U.S and foreign leaders; and its' collusion with repressive secret police forces abroad are now public knowledge. 
We do not challenge the Univer­sity's right to allow any orgabiza­tion to recruit Notre Dame gradu­ates. We do, however, feel a responsibility to keep ourselves : · and others informed about the agency's activities in the hope that such knowledge will assist in preventing further abuse.s of power under the guise of "national security". By publicly exprtssing our concern over the presence of the CIA on the Notre Dame campus, we add our names to the long Jist of people in all parts of the world who have engaged in similar protests. 
Mike Fitzsimmons 
Jack O'Malley 
and 50 others 

steam-roll over the "rights" of other members of the community. This so-called principle of necessity is the articulation of the notion of "will" as the basis for what is 
, right. Simply put, the ''will'' of the majority is right because they are the majority. In an age where rights theory has proliferated to include trees (let alone graduate students), I find the principle of necessity quaint, to say the least. But it is more. It is amoral. "The greatest good for the greatest number'' is not tenable given the Catholic (hence moral) character of this community. 
Now may I intrude some facts on this discussion. There are 6,846 undergraduates enrolled, of whom 
5.604 live in 22 (admittedly over­crowded) dorm facilities. This means there are 1.242 under­graduates living off-campus. ~-_,__ This is less than 20 percent of the undergraduate student body. There are 1,312 graduate students enrolled, of whom 144 live in one and one-half (Brownson Hall has lost much of its space to adminis­tration "imperialism"} dorm facilities. There are 1,168 graduate students living off-campus. This is more than 89 percent of the graduate student body. 
Now, to get back to rights theory. 

H one insists that the solution to the housing difficulty be a "just" solution, then one would be com­pelled to apply the prinicple of "due proportion" or "just distri­bution." Four-fifths of all under­graduates live on campus to only one-tenth of all graduate students. The ratio is grossly in favor of undergraduates. Perhaps it ought to be for a variety of reasons not entertained here or in The Ob­server editorial, I might add. We .ack them to qualify the principle 
Apology 
Dear Editor: 
I am a freshman at Georgia Tech and, after the Georgia Tech-ND game, would like to try to apologize for my school. I was simply shocked by the poor sportsmanship which my fellow students dis­played. I could hardly believe such a fine engineering institution threw fish, bottles, and ice. 
The Tech-ND series is a fine rivalry and I cannot believe it is endangered by the actions of a few. 
I truly hope you will find it in your hearts to forgive us and to continue the footbal rivalry in the future. If my fellow students continue such actions, I may find myself a transfer student at Notre Dame. 
Once again, I apologize for their actions. Congratulations on your invitation to the Cotton Bowl and Good luck. 
D.G.Lopato 
of "just distribution" as it applies in this case. But qualification does not mean elimination. Some representative proportion (at least) of graduate students is merited on campus. I submit that 144 "places" out of a total possible 5,748 is not an unreasonable re­quest by graduate students. Indeed, this represents less than 3 percent of total available housing. 
A notion of "fairness" is implicit in any "just" solution to the housing problem. But student government leadership has acted irresponsibly in this regard. 
Neither the best interests of the entire community nor the interests of undergraduates are served by making graduate student housing a "scapegoat" as opposed to a real solution. The 14 "places" in dispute would, at the most, relieve some present overcrowding. This relief would not include a greater number of total places for present off-campus undergraduates. It also would fail to include any increase in enrollment that the next academic year might bring. In essence. the only valid (and just) solution to the problem, short of placing a ceiling on the number of on-campus residents, is the building of new facilities. Student government efforts to assuage popular opinion by "expropriating" graduate hous­ing diverts attention from the real issue: better and !DOre housing for both graduates and undergrad· uates. 
I would recommend that under­graduates put aside the ''panacea·· of conversion of graduate housing ­and the premises upon which it is based -and take up the effort o 
work toward  a  more  constructive  
and just solution.  
Barry  O'Conaor  Is  a  graclatr­ 

student at Notre Dame • 
• 

If you're walking close to O'Shaugh­ 
nessy Hall some day and you notice an  
electrism in the air, it's most likely the  
successful results of· the hard-working  
people inside the nearby tower. The  
source: WSND AM/FM.  
WSND FM, primarily a fine arts  
station, broadcasts throughout the Mich­ 
iana area. Its staff consists of Notre  
Dame and Saint Mary's students and  
interested area residents. WSND FM  
airs mostly music programs including  
opera, classical, Broadway, jazz, and  
Nocturne Night Flight's progressive  
sounds. Saturday mornings from 11 to  
noon, Fr. Robert Griffin reads stories on  
the Children's Hour, the station's only  
non-musical show.  
WSND AM is staffed entirely by Notre  
Dame and Saint Mary's students.  
Regular popular music shows through­ 
out the day are the main interest,  
augmented by special programming  
such as Radio Free Notre Dame, Blast  
from the Past, and Speaking of Sports,  
to name a few.  
To keep a radio station running  
• smoothly, many areas must be given  
attention and need to be well-staffed.  
WSND AM/FM has its own sales and  
engineering staffs, as well as extensive  
news and sports departll]ents.  
Of course, just listenin~or just visiting  
the station does not tell tlie entire story.  
These pictures could not possibly  
. complete this chapter either, but they  
hopefully will give an idea of the  
intensity and dedication that makes  
News Director Doug Van Tornhout  The engineers need to keep many  WSND AM/FM the electrifying radio station that it is.  
checks the latest wire stories .  materials and parts handy.  
•  


Pictured are the eccentric hosts of Radio Free Notre Dame, 
making a successful promotion 
E.J. Eldridge and John Malley, and special guest Heime. 
----~---~--------~---~----­

7 


Three daily AM "personalities... " 
aJim "Jivin' J.P.D." Dorgan, 4:00 to 5:00 p.m.£1 





'This banner wasspotted at the Tennessee~ Notre Dame game. My goodness, they seem to be everywhere! I 
·Edited by Karen • Caruso 
"The Adonis" comes out of hiding. 

Station Manager Kate Bernard signs on at 7:00 a.m. in the FM studio . 
• 

Photographed by John Macor 
with Phil Stau er and Therese Jabour 


-------------~---------~~~-~ 
Thursday, November 30, 1978
the observer
8 


The Medieval Institute 
FTC judge orders AMAto end 
announces a lecture on 


illegal price fixing conspiracy 

EREMITISM IN THE TWELFTH CENTURY 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The
by Prof. Giles Constable 
American Medical Association, by prohibiting doctors from advertis­
Thurs.,nov. 303:30pm. 
ing, has fostered an illegal price­fixing conspiracy that has inflated 
medical bills, an administrative law judge ruled yesterday. 
•--------------------------• Federal Trade Commission 
memoria/library room 715 
·r.-••••••••••••••••••••·--------••-••-.1 Judge Ernest G. Barnes said the ' AMA's policy against doctors ad­' 
vertising . for patients, adopted 
early this century to stamp out medical quackery, has developed into a device for insuring phy­sicians' profits. 
Barnes ordered the 200,000­member AMA. the largest profes­sional association in the world, to 
rescind its rules that keep p~ysic­ians from advertising or otherwise'Hair designs for Men & Women, soliciting patients. 
Hair Concepts 
f
I 

The AMA said in a statement it 
with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
open late tues.-thurs. 8pm 
North Y2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 -272-7222 
south 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood 291-1001 master charge ViSa 
·------------------------------••.......
, L ...................... 
: FROSH FINALE i 
i s'f u;lS~~;lLSi;L.A -tJ"' 0tt:£ FEATURING :: u£~ -"PIPINGHGT" e 
• moMcm~Go: 
• FRIDAY 9-·1 stepan center : : $1 00 • 
will appeal the order. 

Barnes said the AMA rules prevent doctors from giving pat­ients information about what alter­native health services are avail­able. "The costs to the public in terms of less expensive or even, perhaps, more improved forms of medical services, are great," he said. 
His decisions is not final until the five-member commission has a chance to review it. If the commission approves it, as ex­
pected, the AMA could appeal to a 
federal appeals court. 

Robert B. Hunter, chairman of the AMA board of trustees, said in Chicago that "the most shocking and pervasive attack on profession­alism" in the ruling is a provision that the AMA will be permitted to participate in the setting of ethical guildelines for doctors' advertising after first obtaining FTC approval. 
"We don't feel that lawyers., dentists, engineers, and other pro­fessionals, labor unions, business entities, charitable organizations, state and local governmental entities should have to ask the federal government if they can issue ethical guidelines to their members and what those guide­lines should say," Hunter said. 
He insisted that the AMA favors physician advertising and a free 
••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Egan offers mass 
HAIR for Thorman CARE 
A Mass will be offered at Notre Dame in memory of Donald J.
CENTER Thorman, late publisher-editor of the National Catholic Reporter weekly newspaper, this afternoon at 5:1 5' in Sacrl(d Heart Church, the first anniversary of his death. 
. 
Msgr. John J. Egan, his long­time associate in social action causes within the Church and director of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, will
(~ED KEN 
SCIENTIFIC HAIFI CAFII! CEI'IITER 
celebrate. Rev. John L. Reedy, 
• BlOW STYliNG • PERMS • FACIALS director of Ave .Maria Press at Notre Dame, will give the homily.
• HAIR CUTTING & COLOR SPE.CIAUS TS • MANICURES 
Fr. Reedy was editor of Ave Maria
• ARCHES • TRICHOANAlYSIS 
OPION: MON-SAT 


magazine when Thorman served as 
& THIJRS EVES 

managing editor of then now­defunct national Catholic magazine frm 1956-62. 
Thorman, who was 52 when he 
.._..._ _,_.,,....r"'O,_.._..._ died last year, joined the National Catholic Reporter as managing editor in 1965 and became pub­lisher in 1975. He also was president of NCR Publishing Co. and he was well known as an author of religious books, including "Emerging Layman," published by Doubleday in 1962. 
He had been involved in a wide range of social action causes within the Church, and when he died, Egan called him "one of the towering figures of the post-Vat­can II Church." 
A special scholarship fund in his memory was established at the University to support participation of Notre Dame students and faculty at institutes and on-campus seminars conducted by the Direct Mail Advertising Association, of which Thorman was an active member. 
flow of public information about 1 simple cases such as uncontested health care services. "We are divorces have been handled with opposed to false and misleading the help of legal aides, supervised advertising and its adverse impact by lawyers at a small part of what on the quality of health care such legal services used to cost. available to patients," Hunter said. Such a development that could 
The decision comes after a series reduce medical fees is a clear of rulings in recent years that have possibility if the Barnes decision given lawyers, engineers, drug­becomes final. gists and optometrists the right to The AMA's advertising restrict­advertise. ions are embodied in its principles 
The pivotal ruling in this series of Medical Etliics and enforced by was a June 1977 decision by the the AMA and affiliated state and Supreme Court, striking down the county medical societies. Two of American Bar Association's res­these affiliates, the Connecticut triction on advertising, which was State Medical Society and the New similar to the AMA's. Haven County Medical Associat­
After the high court's decision, ion, Inc., also were cited in the the ABA revised its code of ethics case, which the FTC began Dec. and one result has been the 19, 1975. The case has been the proliferation of low cost legal subject of a long series of hearings clinics. In these clinic~>, relatively before the judge. 
Exhumed Pinto crash victims undergo autopsies 
ELKHART Ind. [AP]-The bodies of two young women killed in a fiery Pinto crash have been exhumed for autopsies, Elkhart County Prosecutor Michael Cosentino said yesterday. 
The decision to order autopsies more than three months after the victims were buried was made ''to eliminate any question about the cause of death," Cosentino said in a telephone interview with the Associated Press 
The victims, Judy Ulrich, 18, and her sister, Lynn, 16, both of Osceola, Ind., were killed along with their cousin, Donna Ulrich, 18, of Roanoke, Ill., when their Pinto exploded in flames after being struck from the rear on a norther Indiana highway. 
As a result, an Elkhart County Grand Jury indicted Ford Motor Co. on three counts of reckless homicide. The car in which the young women died was among 1.5 million Pinto and Bobcat sedans Ford agreed in June to recall because of government complaints about the fuel tank. 
Cosentino said the bodies were exhumed late Tuesday for examin­ations by Dr. James Benz of Indianapolis and Dr. Robert Stein of Chicago, both noted forensic pathologists. The results will be available today, the prosecutor added. 
Asked if he would seek to exhume the body of the third victim in Illinois, Cosentino refused com­ment. 
But Cecil Noh!, clerk of Woodford County, Ill., where Roanoke is located, said he had not received any notice of such a request. 
"We felt this was necessary since no autopsies were performed 
Van Wolvlear allows frosh cars 
Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice­president for Student Affairs, has decided to allow fresnmen with a 
2.0 grade point average or above for the first semester to keep cars on campus starting next semester, according to Mike Shepardson, president of the Freshmen Advi­sory Council (FAC). 
"It was a major objective for us this semester," Shepardson said, adding, "I'm pleased with Fr. Van's approval of our petition. I feel that the freshmen class will benefit a great deal from this decision." 
Shepardson and Mike Kelly, vice-president of FAC, met with Van Wolvlear yesterday and pet­itioned him on behalf of the freshman class to grant the per­mission. 
According to Shepardson, the FAC must petition the vtce-pres­ident each year to grant the privilege. · 
Freshmen who plan to bring cars next semester must obtain a permit from Security, enabling them to park their vehicles on campus. 
• 

at the time," Cosentino said, 
adding that the order has support 
of the victims' family. 

Shortly after the Aug. 10 acci­
dent, County Coroner Marvin 
Riegsecker, who is not a medical 
doctor, noted that the victims 
suffered third-degree burns in the 
accident. 

Ford attorneys have filed 
motions to dismiss the criminal 
charges, arguing that the indict­
ment "fails to charge that Ford's 
conduct was the proximate cause of 
death." 

The indictment accused Ford of 
reckless designing the Pinto in 
such a way that it would ''flame 
and burn upon rear end impact." 
In the Elkhart case, the Ulrich 
Pinto exploded after being struck 
by a van traveling at 50 mph. 

Elkhart . Superior Court Judge 
Charles Hughes won't rule on 
Ford's motion until Cosentino has a 
chance to reply. The prosecutor 
said he hopes to have his response 
completed by tomorrow. 

The autopsy order was expected 
to blunt efforts by Ford attorneys to 
challenge the case of death when 
the case goes to trial. Without the 
autopsy results, Ford attorneys 
could have argued that Cosentino 
could not conclusively prove that 
the victims died as a result of the 
burns and not from other injuries 
resulting from the accident. 
Carlton lectures on birth defects 
byMegKeUy 

Environmental Hazards to the Unborn Child" was the topic of Betsy Carlton of Massachusett's Institute of Technology (MIT) at St. Mary's American Scene Lecture Series last night. 
The study of birth defects is termed teratology according to Carlton, and the abnormalities fall into three categories: structural, biochemical, and behavioral. 
The lecture mainly covered the defects that are caused by terato­gens, (foreign substances) since this is Carlton's major area of research, especially the "DES Syndrome". 
Teratogens are either environ­mental, as mercury in fish, or drugs. 
According to Carlton, malfor­mations are dependent on when the fetus is exposed in the gestation period, and what organ is being developed when the substance interacts. She also stressed that ''women must realize that no period in gestation is externally safe." 
For the future Carlton is insistent that more research is needed, more medical records must be kept, and the records must be held for a longer time for future referral. 
Carlton ended by saying "A greater general awareness is needed on the many substances that can alter the placenta." 


U.S. exports decline 
WASIDNGTON [AP) -A sharp decHne in exports of food, chemi­cals and gold pushed the nation's trade deficit to $2.1 billion in October, the worst in three months, the government said yesterday. 
Both the U.S. stock market and world curency markets reacted negatively to the news. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down by 9. 70 points to 794.44 in the first few hours of slow trading, while the dollar eased against most other major currencies. 
The U.S. trade deficit, which now totals $24.8 billion for the first 10 months of 1978, has been a major cause along with inflation of the steep decline in the dollar during the past two years. 
Officials estimate there already are about $500 billion in U.S. dollars held abroad, most of them from past trade deficits. As the supply of dollars outpaces foreign demand, which it has, the value declines. 

Chairman G. William Miller of the Federal Reserve Board said yesterday the decline in the dollar has added about 1 percent to the nation's inflation rate in 1978, and will raise it even more in 1979. 
The dollar decline alone, he said, is costing Americans between $10 

Reagan says cult attracts more members of Democratic Party 
BONN, West Germany [AP] ­
Former California Gov. Ronald 
Reagan said yesterday that the 
Rev.Jim Jones, cult leader of 
Peoples Temple, appeared to at­
tract more members of the 
Democratic Party than Republi­
cans. 
"I'll try not to be happy in saying 
this," Reagan said. "He support­
ed a number of political figures but 
seemed to be more involved with 
the Democratic Party. I haven't 
seen anyone in the Republican 
Party having been helped by him or 
seeking his help." 
Reagan, who lost the 1976 race 
for the Republican presidential 
nomination to Gerald Ford, is 
currently on a tour of European 
capitals and was interviewed here 
by the Associated Press. 
Reagan said he has been "cam­
paigning strenuously" for Rep­
ublican candidates for a number of 
months. 
"I just felt it was time now, after 
all this fampaigning, to get some 
first-hand information," Reagan 
said. "What is the attitude toward 
the United States? What is the 
image of us?" ­
Reagan said he will spend three 
days in West Germany for talks 
with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt in 
West Berlin and Bavarian conser-· 
vative leader Franz Josef Strauss in 
Munich. 
When asked if his trip was in 
preparation for .presidential cam­
paing, Reagan answered, "You'll 
have to ask me that question 
sometime in 1979." 
Stewart forms 
Shakesp_ereanGuild 
There will be a meeting tonight for all persons interested in writing features articles for the Obtierver next semester. It will be at 7 pm in the Observer office, third floor La 
Fortune Student Center. 
Writers will be needed for album, book, concert, film, and theater reviews. There will be a new column, Spotlight On, which will require the writer to interview a personality on campus . Also, 
writers of comedy and satire are strongly encouraged to attend. Human interest stories, general prose and poetry will be needed. If for any reason you cannot attend but are interested in writing, contact Chris Stewart at 7471 or 
3748. Leave your name and number and you will be contacted. 

billion and $15 billion a year tn lost purchasing power. 
The October trade deficit follow­ed two months of shrinking deficits and was the worst since a deficit of 
just under $3 billion in July.  The  
deficit  for  September  was  $1.7  
billion.  

U.S. officials sought to put the best possible face on the figures. Treasury Secretary W.Michael Blumenthal said they were "con­sistent with, if not below, our expectations ... " 
Exports in October declined $415 million or 3.1 percent to a total of $13 billion, down from $13.4 billion in September, while imports were virtually unchanged at 5.1 billion. 
The size of the decline in exports was the largest in 10 months. But Blumenthal said much of this was due to a $224 million decline in gold exports that reflected what he described as erratic overseas pur­chases of U.S. gold, which were up sharply the previous month. 
"Importantly, our balance of trade in the area of manufactured goods and industrial materials in continuing to show substantial improvement," he said. 
On the import side, Americans continued to buy more foreign automobiles and electronic equip-
In London, Reagan met with British Foreign Minister David Owen and Conservative Party lea­der Marnister David Owen and Conservative Party leader Margaret Thatcher. In Paris on Monday, Reagan met with France's deputy foreign minister and French business leaders. 
Reagan termed Monday's shoot­ing deaths of San Francisco Mayor George Moscone and City Super­visor Harvey Milk "an individual thing." 
Former City Supervisor Dan White has been charged in con­nection with the deaths. Mayor Moscone refused to give White the chance to return to a post White had recently given up. 
''San Francisco has undergone some changes and it's been a kind of mecca for various kinds of 
Gov't to use muscle against companies 
INDIANAPOUS[AP)-The federal government will use its economic muscle if businesses violate volun­tary price guidelines, one of Pres ide n t Carter's 
top inflation fighters said yesterday. 

Barry P. Bosworth, director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, said the cooperation of organized labor is also .Yital if the president's program is to succeed. 
Bosworth told reporters follow­ing a speech here that high wage increases ana government regulat­ions are at the root of inflation now, more than government deficit spending. 
Bosworth said the governmeut can help ensure business comp­liance which violate the standards and by removing economic protect­ion, such as protective tariffs, from industries which fail to follow them. 
Bosworth predicted that many labor unions will cooperate with the program, which seeks to limit wage 
The guidelines for businesses recommend that prices be increased no more than a half a percent less than last year's increased costs or that profits be no higher than they were in the best two of the last three years. 
increases to 7 percent, despite opposition from AFL-CiO President George Meany. 

"First of all, Mr. Meany is head of a coalition of individual labor unions, he does not negotiate any contracts," Bosworth said. "If we don't -have the cooperation of organized labor, this program will not work." · 
Bosworth said that to get labor's cooperation, government must see to it that businesses abide by price guidelines. Inflation could be halted, Bosworth said, by tightening government spending, but the sociai cost would be high. 
"If you're saying that if the government stopped printing any more money it would stop inflation, you're right, but it would be at any extremely high social cost," said Bosworth, who holds a doctorate in economics from the Univer~ity of 
Michigan. 
Bosworth said that cost would include higher interest rates and increased unemployment. 
But he said government should try to reduce the costs that are needed to comply with some of its regulations. · 
Bosworth was in Indiana to meet business leaders. He also visited his brother, Brian, a top aide tu Republican Gov. Otis R. Bowen. 
people," Reagan added. 
Reagan said Jones, whose head­quarters was in San Francisco, dill not represent a "national wave.'' He wasn't like some charismatic leader wha could dominate an entire country." 
Jones, who was known to have supported a number of liberal candidates, was appointed to San Francisco's City Housing by Moscone, a liberal democrat. 
Jones also was known to have urged his church's members to attend political rallies. Rosalynn Carter appeared at one rally with Jones during hernusband's 1976 presidential campaign. 
California Democratic Rep. Leo 
J. Ryan was killed along with three journalists and a cult defector while investigating Jones' cult settle­ment in Guyana, Jonestown. 
Thursday, November 30, 1978 
the observer 
I 

While snow was piling up in South Bend, these seniors were piling up on the beach in Sunny California [photo courtesy of J.R.] 
ment than before. 
It seemed certain the trade gap for the year will surpass last year's record $26.5 billion deficit. How­ever, the administration expects the trade deficit to decline sub­stantially next year, perhaps by 
half, as other countries increase Exports of food and live animals their imports of U.S. goods. declined in October for the second consecutive month, falling $107
The value of oil imports in million to just under $1.6 billion.

October dropped by $125 million to a total of nearly $3.5 billion, Manufactured goods exports eased by $47 million to $1.1 billion, butfollowing an increase in Sept­
ember. were still above the August total. 
Mon., 
Mario's
Wed., & Thurs. Michiana's newest disco 
Serving Olympia beer on tap Special price Pitcher Beer Night DISCO dancing nightly, except Tues. 
come on down and par:ty Y2 mile north of Shula's 
~ND 
SMC 
THEATRE 

Book Shelfs Stereo Shelfs Floor Sofas CRff\TiVF Amer. Express Silk Screens Master Charge Visa Acceptedand much more ~~ Lifestyle Furniture and Unique gift ideas  
ACORN needs organizers to work with low and moderate Income famUies In 14 states. , States: [AR, S.D., Teus, LA, TN, MO, FL, CO, Nev, PA, lA, OK, MI, AZJ For political and economic justice. Direct action on neighborhood deterioration, utllity rates, taxes, health care, ect. Tangible results and end.mng rewards • long boors, low pay. Contace: Ann Lassen at Volunteer Services In LaFortune Fri. Dec. 1, 1 pm-5 pm.  

SJlrn lu ()~le1u"lill11 At)cllt()flurn Fri. Se1t. Su11. [)t::c:.1!1l!IJ ­Wt::cl.lliur§. frl. Se1t. [)f?c:. ()!IJ!IS!IC) 

Seating is very hmited. The audience will be  seated randomly  
within the environmental setting: of the play.  Please  note the  
Sunday and Wt:dhesday performances.  

Reserve your tickets now! Call284-4176 
Ill~~()§..£ lli~<1llt=? 
J>I~Sf?ll(§ 
fciWCll"cl 411)~~~§ 
e~ll f)~f?r 
,. 


1Q Thursday, November 30, 1978 

ACROSS 42 Skin mark 11 Germ-free 44 ----poetica 12 Nuance 1 Suffix for land or 45 Masses of blood 13 Film workers sea 47 Stockings 15 Fit for food 
6 Those who defy 48 Siamese (var.) 20 "Darn it!" 12 Ghost 49 Defend 23 Doctrines 14 Raise one's spirits 51 Never: Ger. 28 Object of 16 -----seek 52 English prep school devotion 17 Consoled student 30 John ---­18 Coach Parseghian 54 Bridge supports 31 ----run 19 Legatee 56 Adjusted a-watch-32 Part of MPH 21 Son of Bela 57 Time of day 33 U.S. agency 22 ----farmer 58 Talks back to 35 Musical groups24 Turn the key 59 Intended 36 Roof worker 25 Pen point 37 "The ----of 26 Raison d'----DOWN Penzance" 27 Baseball hall-of-38 Give support
farner Mel ----1 Strong drink 39 Least difficult 28 Actor Norman ----2 Midwest city 41 Jack Nicklaus and 29 Famous Colonel (3 wds.) Johnny Miller, e.g. 32 With 43-Down, 3 Tennis term 43 See 32-Across 
former Dodger 4 Egyptian god 45 Pocket-billiards ex­34 Slaves 5 Sea eagles pert, Irving ---­35 Prefix: seven 6 Commit a military 46 Rugby play36 Treated with crime 49 Papal name 
malice 7 "It's ----cause" 50 Work with a 38 Make a certain 8 Electrical units piano
poker bet 9 Moon walk 53 Spanish for us 40 Covers 10 Midwest city 55 Spanish equivalent 41 Jazz of the '50s (2 wds.) of Mrs. 

Dillon Hall wins Rockne Trophy for second month 
Judge postpones 
White's arraignment 

[continued from page 1) Enter a plea at that time. A preliminary hearing would then be scheduled. 
"That's all we can do this morning," the judge said as he adjourned court. 
White was returned to a jail cell five floors above the courtroom in the Hall of Justice where he is being watched around the clock. 
While White was in court, the bodies of Moscone and Milk were being transferred to the ornate domed City Hall where they were slain. The bodies will lie in state with the public allowed to file past the flag-draped caskets. Moscone's burial is scheduled for today and Milk is to be cremated tomorrow night. 
The city will be virtually closed down today as a day of mourning for the slain leaders. Schools, courts and city offices were ordered closed for the day. 

The killings came just as the city was recovering from news of the mass murder-suicide of more than 900 people at the San Francisco­Peoples Temple commune in Guyana. 
White, the youngest member of the Board of Supervisors, resigned 
Hall President's Council (HPC) This is the second consecutive monthly by former hall presidents 
his post Nov. 10, saying he, could 

Chairman Chuck DelGrande an­month that Dillion has been recog­to recognize the hall that shows 
not live on the salary of $9,600 a 
nounced that Dillion Hall has won nized by the former hall presidents frequency, originalitand activities 
year. Later. he decided he wanted 

the Rockne Trophy for the judging for this award. Six halls received throughout a given time period. 
his job back. but Moscone refused. 

period ending Oct. 31. votes, with Dillion receiving two The next Rockne Trophy judgmg first place votes and recognition period ends Nov. 28. from all of the raters. ' 
r~~-~....,...-..,...~-·--·---·.._....---·-...............----, 
Dillion retained its September award with an active and successful
1ffiJstl€tO€ mabnEss ~f? 1 October whose activities included 


tailgaters, a St. Joseph RiverCruise 
i 1J ~ a toga party at St. Mary's and Halloween party at Lee's. The hall 
flli€ notRE ()am€ Jun10~ Class l=oRmal ~ also sponsored a door-to-door 
cruiting campaign for Volunteer i--~€C€ffiB€R 2~-9:30-1 :30~~·C€ntw~y C€nt€R ~ Services, chaired by Tim Scully. a 
Dillon resident.
~ ~ 
Honorable Mention certificates 
.... \_.._..~.-----~Ch 1caqo Banb SllpStR€Mll--~·-·-----·~l will be awarded to Walsh, Breen­~ I Phillips and Pangborn for their October activities. 
\tlck€ts avallaBl€ at blnn€R 1n b1mnq hall tobay ~ 
The Rockne Trophy is chosen
l-........--.......~·..,.........~........_...~.-..............................-_.~-~·-.-' 

oble.@ 
om~ 
Pizza 
and other 
Good Things 

CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD & CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Call ahead for faster service or directions 
277-5300 
------------------------------------------, 
$1.00 OFF $1.50 OFF ON ANY L.ARGE ON ANY SIZE DEEP DISH MASTERPIZZA! SICILIAN PIZZA! 
ONE COUPON PEl ORDBt ONE COUPON PER ORDER 12/17/78 ._______12/17/78 ------------------------------· 
------------·3:+ :::­
-... •. 
fi

; I 
,., ..,...... 


... 

Thursday, November 30, 1978 the obaerver 11 
NOTICES 

Gay students of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. Gay Information. Write: P.O. Box 206. 
Typist will do typing. Neat and accurate. Call 287-5162. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-150-1 percent interest due In 30 days. LaFortune Basement 11:30-12:30 M-F. 
NO Legal Services. Call 283-7795 10 am-4 pm. 
Give the folks back home a break for Christmas with an a111tographed copy of BEFORE ROCKNE AT NOTRE DAME [$9.95/clothbound]. Author CHET GRANT &-Introducer DAN DEVINE will sign your copy at Library lounge thiS· Friday, 7-9. Refreshments. 
Buy low priced Third World handicrafts today at the St. Francis Shoppe Sale -LaFortune 10-2, Library Concourse 6-11. 
Budget light hauling for ND-SMC Com­munity. Call 234-4289 or 283-3424. 
Pandora's continues its happy hours, Friday 3:00-6:00. All used books 1f2 price. Behind the NO Apts. 233-2342. 
Need a ride? Call Wilson Driveaway. Cars to all major cities. All you pay for is gas. Cars are brand new. For more information, call Dan at 1783. 
Girl Swimmers Unite! Organized meeting Thurs. Nov. 30, LaFortune Ballroom 7:30. 
Attention all Logan volunteers and inte­rested students! The Annual Christmas Dance for the mentally handicapped will be held this Friday, December 1, from 7:30-10:00 pm in the Logan Center cafeteria. Come and join the fun! A live band and refreshments will insure agood time! A decoration making party will be held Thursday night at Logan at 7:00pm. Please come and help us make decora­tions for the dance! Questions call Mike at 1371 or Sue at 41-4832. 
Attention all Logan Center Saturday Rec people! Regular Saturday Rec will be held December 2 at Logan Center from 9:00-11:30 am. Bring your swimsuit if you like and help the kids enjoy Saturday Rec. 
FOR RENT 

For rent, 2nd semester, 3 bedroom house on beautifully wooded 1.4 acres with trout stream: gas heat: fireplaces: $400. 7343 or 684-6620. 
LOST AND FOUND 

FOUND: Men's watch at Computer Center. Come to Dispatcher's Office to identify. 
FOUND: A Timex day-date, automatic, water resistant men's watch in Green Field. When found, read Tues. 14. Inquire at Lost and Found Office in Ad Building. 
HELP! Between lunch and dinner on Monday the 27th, someone accidently walked off with my knapsack from the S. Dining Hall. Please, I need it back as it has all my notes for all classes in it. If you found a brown bag and/or 4yellow spiral notebooks, please call 6757 as soon as possible. 
LOST: 1blue down vest at Nickies before T-giving -reward. Dan 3168. 
WANTED 

Desperately need a ride home for Christmas break to the Philadelphia vicinity (east on the PA Turnpike). I can leave Wednesday December 20 at 12:30 and I will gladly share all expenses and driving. Please call Tom at 1138. 
Any one needing a roommate tor nPxt semester write to: Greg Quinn, Univer­sity of Notre Dame Rome Studies Program, Via Monterone 76, Rome, Italy 00186. Please send all information. 
$50 per 100 envelopes stuffed and addressed at home. Write Benco Enterprises, Box 5239, Austin, TX 78763. SOON. 
Dishwasher wanted Wed., Fri., Sun. nights. Apply in person at NICOLA's. 809 N. Michigan. 
Wanted: Xmas Decorations, Xmas Gift Wrap, Kids Toys (13 yr. & under) These items are needed tor "the ANNUAL CHRISTMAS PARTY FOR NEEDY CHILDREN" Dec. 16. Interested call Terri 684-5186. 
WANTED: Salesperson hours 8-12 Monday-Friday at the County Seat ­Scottsdale-call291-4502, ask for LINDA. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/full time. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free info -Write: International JOb Center, Box 4490-14. Berkely, CA 94704. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Will someone (anyone) on the OB staff please fix the Christmas lights in my office? 
MOM 
I sure would appreciate a ride to Daytona Beach, Florida area for Christmas. Will­ing to share driving and expenses. Call Damian at 1003. 
Babysitter need 2-3 days/wk. for 9-month old. Schedule negotiable. Own transpor­tation necessary. Scottsdale Mall area. 291-4530. 
Need one student or GA ticket for Valparaiso or Rice. Frank 288-3204. 
WANTED: One student ticket for Valparaiso. Call 41-4420. 
Need 2 GA tickets or 1 student, 1 GA ticket for the Valpo basketball game Saturday. Please call Tom at 1138. 
Need ride to IU Bloomington Friday Dec. 1, will share driving and expenses. Call JB 1165. 
FOR SALE 
Black Panther hockey skates. Top condition-size 9V2-10. Call 1493. 
1972 Ford Gran Torino, good condition. new tires and battery. Some rust. From $975. 291-4530 between 5 and 7 pm. 
FOR SALE: AMF Roadmaster 1978 Moped $250. CAll 289-1294ask for Frank 
P. 
PERSONALS 
Tonite's show is dedicated to the sublime beauties of Walsh and LeMans Hall. Catch it from 9-11 pm WSND. 
The Adonis 
HEY GIRLS!!! FEOS (Fisher Escort and Dating Service) is your guarantee to a good time -any time. Call: 3089, 3087, 3079. 
The Adonis is upon us -tonite 9-11 pm WSND-Be there. 
Get ready for Mistletoe Madness, December 2 is the day! 
Do you believe how gorgeous the Adonis is? Check today's midpoint. Listen to his showtonite9-11 pm WSNO. Keith Moon is guest. 
175 Dillon: We want Rooney's clothes or our toga party (preferably the party!) R&R 
Happy 20th to the prettiest pair of BROWN EYES at NO. love, Chicago Green Eyes 
"Need relief" come to the Frosh Finale­Dec. 1, 9-1, Stepan Center, $1.00. 
R.B. Who the Hell is Jilly Bean??? Admirer 
Mistletoe Madness is coming...Pucker up! 
Dwellers, thanks. Friday-A Lite for every balloon. Love, Janet 
Phil: 
"Chet Reid's Car Parts" is a profound comment on the take over of the economy by the automotive industrial complex and it sounds really neat if you linger over the "ar." 
Sprunger Stables means nothing and sounds ridiculous any way you say it. The Midnight Skulker 
Adam: 
Here's afriendly, non-special occasion, "hi, there!" personal from your favorite Tuesday copyreader who's waiting for the last story to come in. 

Meeting tonight for all closet satirists, repressed English majores and future Aristotles. Come to Shakesperean Guild 7 pm Observer office or Call Chris Stewart 7471, 3748. I'll love you if you do. 
Pam, 

It's friends like you that make Thanks­giving so nice. Hope you enjoyed your stay. (My family enjoyed your company). 
Teri 
FLUSE.TTE, Merci mille lois for a true vacat ion! (Are you becoming a lush?) Watch those 
L.W. 's! love ya, Mary Cat 
DOES SCOOP REALLY DISCO?!?! (heh, heh, heh) 
Mary Bergen and Sue Kunkels say that Grace F. is too skinny to drink Lite beer. 

Give credit to the UBS factor of Dillon for staying on his fat program, the results show that he now looks like Ernie Holmes double. Call 1697 and congratulate WilliamV. 
Nixon arrives in London for lecture at Oxford ·Union 
LONDON [AP]-Former President Richard M. Nixon told reporters yesterday he is not worried and will feel "very much at home" if students demonstrate during his speaking engagement at the Oxford Union debating society. 
Nixon, who resigned in 1974 as a result of the Watergate scandal, arrived at Heathrow Airport from Paris, where. he appeared on a television show and answered viewers' questions. 
Nixon said he would speak on foreign affairs and answer questions at Oxford today, but added he hoped that the questions would not be longer than the answers. 
American students at Oxford said they planned to demonstrate against Nixon. They code-named their operation "CREEP"--the acronym of Nixon's 1972 Com­mit1:Ge to Re-elect the President, which was involved in the Water­gate burglary. 
Undergraduate student presi­dent Charles Parsons said at least 1,000 demonstrators would protest his lecture today because they "remember very well the excesses of the Nixon administration and are opposed to this visit." 
Nixon was dressed in a gray topcoat, looking well and rested. He stepped off the sidewalk to wave to onlookers peering from windows of building opposite Claridge's, his hotel in the elegant Mayfair district near the U.S. Embassy in Grosvenor Square. 
The 64-year-old former president said he had a "nice, dicey meeting'' when he visited Oxford as vice president 20 years ago. He did not explain the comment about his appearance before 400 students at Oxford Nov. 28, 1958. 
Keenan stages revue 
Keenan Hall will be staging its 3rd~ Annual "Keenan Revue" tomor­row and Saturday, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The event is open to the public with semi-formal attire suggested. 
Van Huffel contributes monetary gift 
Harold E. Van Huffel'of Warren, 
Ohio, a member of the Notre Dame 
class of 1927, has contributed 
$150,000 to the University, it has 
been announced. At Van Huffel's 
request, the gift will be applied to 
the President's Endowed Discre­
tionary Fund and thus may be used 
to meet various emergent needs. 
In annoucning the gift, Notre 
Dame's·president, Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., commented: 
''This outstanding act of generosity 
will make support available for a 
variety of projects, from bringing to 
campus a speaker of timely impor­
tance to purchasing books on a 
one-shot ba§is only. These needs 
arise unexpectedly and simply not 
fit into the University's regular 
annual budget. But by meeting 
them, as we may throogh this 
generous benefaction, we enhance 
the total education enterprise." 
Van Huffel was born and raised 
in Mishawaka, Indiana. he and his 
wife, Marion, are now residents of 
Warren, where he retired from the 
presidency of Van Huffel Tube 
Corporation in 1970. His son was a 
1956 graduate of Notre Dame. 
The Umversity is currently invol­ved in The Campaing for Notre Dame, a nationwide, capital fund­raising effort. Announced in April 1977, more than $100 million has been obtained in commitments and gifts toward the $130 million goal-­$91 million of which is earmarked for endowment to. undergrad future academic achievement. 
Britain's Labor government Aitken, representing the Speaker arranged maximum security and of the House of Commons, and minimum courtesies for the arrival U.S. Ambassador Kingman of Nixon, on his first visit to Europe Brewster. since leaving the White House. Scores of policemen teamed up 
An aide to Prime Minister James with Nixon's Secret Service agents Callaghan told a reporter, "The to insure his safety. Nixon prime minister has no plans to see shrugged off security men at 
Mr. Nixon." Heathrow Airport and accepted the 
An attempt to stop the Nixon challenge of a group of baggage visit failed last week when Home handlers "to come and talk to the Secretary Merlyn Rees rejected a workers." call by Labor lawmaker John Lee When the Handlers' shop for a ban on Nixon as an undesir­steward Danny Ewing said he had able alien. been in two world wars, Nixon 
Nixon was met at Heathrow replied, "I don't believe in wars. 
Airport by a British Foreign Office We don't want any more of that. official, Co. Gordon Maxwell; Con­This is what I am trying to do, stop servative lawmaker Jonathan wars." 
Green revises process 
[continued from page 1] will have the whole process com­pleted sooner and each applica'nt will know where he or she stands," 
Rossman commented. 
But to other rectors, the shorten­ed interviewin~ period proves as a frustration for them. According to ~t. Vivian Whitehead, Breen­Phillips rector, "the shortened period bothers me because I know I will probably have an overabun dance of qualified candidates, yet I will not have enough time to interview all of them. 
So, unfortunately, I will probably have to give preference of inter­views to students that I know and that are already in the hall. This is a problem because it is not fair to the outsiders who apply for the job in B-P," Whitehead concluded. 
In regard to the Situation Comment question on the applica­tion Rossman stated that it was more of a problem situation rather than a growth situation. "This 
Fall Jazz Festival continues at Nazz 
A fall Jazz Festival continues tonight in the Nazz with 'Big Band Night.' The two Notre Dame Jazz Bands, under the direction of Fr. George Wiskerchen, will perform. The program begins at 9 p.m. and there is not admission charge. 
Center offers human relations course 
The Counseling Center will offer a course on systematic human relations training during the spring semester. 
The program is designed to train 
individuals in basic helping skills 
through experiential learning in a 
small group setting. Such skills as 
attentiveness, empathy, respect, 
confrontation and self-disclosure, 
among others, are considered ne­
cessary to establish a helping 
relationship with someone. The 
course may be of interest to 
students planning careers in such 
fields as law, medicine, psycho­
logy, social work and education. 
Trainees may arrange to receive 
special studies credit in psy­
chology. 
The group will meet Thursday evenings from 6 to 10 throughout the spring semester. Enrollment will be limited, and applicants will be considered partialy on the basis of two helping skills inventories they will be asked to take. 
Those interested m applying for 
the course are asked to visit the 
Counseling Center, 400 Adminis­
tration Bldg., between 8:30 and 
11:.30 a.m. or 1:30 and 4:30 p.m., 
no later than Friday December 8. 
For further information, contact 
Mark Rodrigues at 1717. 
question will probably be more helpful to rectors in the male dorms, we really don't have those types of problems," Rossman said. 
The applicant must be a senior or graduate student next year. In addition, he/she must have at least a 3.0 grade point average (GPA) at the end of this semester and must not have any other job responsi­bilities for the time served as an RA. 
Also included in the application is the requirement for general, personal and academic infor­mation, with separate sections on job experience and extracurricular activities. 
A personal statement on the applicants motivation for applying is required. A brief section on financial aid must be completed. 
Students interested in applying may contact him or their rectors if they have questions or wish additional information. 
%Observer 
Sports 
. ... Ex-Reds 
[continued from page 12] 
their last world championship to 
Montreal. 
"Now he knows how I felt when I 
was traded," Perez said. ·'I like 
the man I know. He was the 
perfect manager for our club. He 
gave us the freedom to what we 
could. 
"I know that when he came to us 
we started winning in 1970. Then I 
don't know what happened. I got 
traded, and I guess, the last two 
years, something went wrong. 
They finished second." 
Anderson's predecessor in Cincin­
nati, Dave Bristol, recalled the 
feeling of being fired. 
"I've gone nine vears now and I 
still don't know why," said Bristol 
from his home in Andrews, N.C. 
"The only difference is that they 
never flew down here to tell me.'' 
The reference was to Howsam's 
telephone call informing Bristol 
compared to Wagner's trip to 
Anderson's California home earlier 
this week to tell him the ne<vs. 
"I feel very sorry for him (Ander­
son)," Bristol said. "But the 
longer you have been in the game, 
you eventually learn nothing sur­
prises you in baseball.'' 
Swim team meeting tonight 
The Notre Dame women's swim­ming team will have an organi­zational meeting tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom, beginning at 
7:30. All dedicated swimmers are urged to attend and show their support for women's athletics at Notre Dame. 
'· 

Thursday, November 30, 1978
12 the observer 
Laurion 's goaltending skyrockets Irish to #1 

by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 

From eight in your own league to 
number one in the country in one 
month is quick moving. That is 
exactly where the Irish leers find 
themselves after their first 10 
games posting a 7-2-1 record. 
The Fighting Irish were coming 
off a disappointing 12-24-2 season 
this year and had lost their top five 
scorers to graduation. This encour­
aged college hockey experts to tab 
them for an eighth-place finish in 
the WCHA. Nevertheless, in South 
Bend, optimism was in abundance~ 
but so were the question marks. 
Lefty Smith and Ric Schaefer 
went out and recruited a bumper 
crop of freshmen but any experi­
enced coach knows that newcomers 
cannot be expected to turn a team 
around. So the Irish coaches asked 
for patience and promised a matur­
ing and exciting team. 

Little did they know that those question marks would turn to exclamation points this early in the year. While the freshmen have contributed more than their fair share, there is one 18-year-old in particular that must be credited with a great deal of the team's early success. 
An all-state conference Most Valuable goalie in his senior year, Dave Laurion's success cannot come as a complete surprise but the performances that this Inter· national Falls, MN native has turned in to date certainly could not have been predicted by the slyest judges of talent. 
The position hit worst by gra­duation was the slot in front of the goal. While only one goalie at a time can stop shots, Lefty Smith lost two of the best netminders in the country in Len Moher and John Peterson. It looked as though the 1978 version of the Fighting Irish would have to score a lot of goals to be successful. 
Notre Dame has found the open net 54 times in the first 10 games, second highest in the league; but the big difference is that they have only allowed 38 on the exchange, also a second best total. Laurion has been the needle in the haystack that Smith desperately needed. 
At 5-7, 155 pounds, Laurion is not much more than a needle but he has sewn the Irish net shut with his lightening quick reflexes. 
''I'm happy with the way I've played so far," offers Laurion. "At the beginning of the year, I did poorly in practice so my only concern was making the traveling team. I'm surprised I've done so well." 
What the small netminder has done so far is post a 6-1-1 record which is the best in the WCHA. His goals against average of 3.19 is second in the league and best 

Goalie Dave Laurion among goaltenders that have seen half their team's action. "At the beginning of the year I said I did not want to play both nights in the series," explains the freshman standout. "In high school, we played 15 minute periods and now we go for 20 minutes, so at first it was like playing four periods each night." The extra work hasn't seemed to bother Laurion yet as he has posted a sweep and has played in over 80 percent of the games to date. "Now I think I'm in better shape," explains Laurion. "I have no reservations about going both nights, but I still think it is important for a team to have confidence in both goalies." Laurion got a break this weekend as junior Greg Rosenthal had a fine day in front of the net en route to his first win after a slow start. But with the Irish ranked number. one in the nation, the pressure can only become more intense. "I do feel a little more pressure now," admits Laurion. "But I hope my attitude and the team's attitude doesn't change because you don't want to get cautious and lose any of your aggressiveness." As a freshman, Laurion has had little time to think about the pressures of playing in the WCHA, 
NO's Golic elected to All-America team 
DURHAM,N.C. [AP]-Quarter­backs Rick Leach of Michigan and Chuck Fusina of Penn State were elected to the American Footi.Jdll Coaches Association All-America team in the first tie vote in 10 years. 
"The voting was simply too close to call." said AFCA president Carmen Cozza of Yale. "Both Leach and Fusina are great players and great leaders. They both clearly are All-Americans." 
The only previous tie vote in­volved quarterbacks Bobby Doug­lass of Kansas and Terry Hanratty of Notre Dame in 1968. 
The dual selection all but over­
shadowed the selection of the 
Mandatory 
lnterha/1 b -ball 
meeting set 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all captains of Men's Interhall Basketball team today at 4:30 in the ACC auditorium. Schedules will be distributed and rules discussed, so it is imperative that all teams have a representative at the meeting. 
The $20.00 entry fee will be collected at this time. League play begins Sunday, Dec. 3 nation's three premier running backs; Heisman Trophy winner Billy Sims of Oklahoma, Charles White of Southern California and Charles Alexander of LSU, the only offensive player to repeat as an All-American. 
Sims received the most indivi­dual votes and became the coaches' choice as Offensive Player of the Year. 
Rounding out the offensive team are center Jim Ritcher of North Carolina State, guards Pat Howell of Southern California and Greg Roberts of Oklahoma, tackles Kel­vin Clark of Nebraska and Keith DOrney of Penn State, tight end Kellen Winslow of Missouri and split end Gordon Jones of Pitts­burgh. 
Linebacker Jerry Robinson of UCLA. the the leading defensive vote-getter, was the only repeater on the. coaches' defensive team. 
Also chosen were linebackers Bob Golic of Notre Dame and Tom Cousineau of Ohio State, a defen­sive backfield of Henry Williams of San Diego State, Jeff Nixon 'of Richmond and Johnny Johnson of Texas, and a defensive line of Don Smith of Miami, Fla., Dan Hamp­ton of Arkansas, Mike Bel of Colorado State, Bruce Clark of Penn State and AI Harris of Arizona State. 
much less being on the top team in 
the nation. 

''The adjustment has not been as big as I expected it to be," said Laurion. "The biggest difference is that you have less time to set up on a shot. The game is more refined and the increased overall quickness means you have to be ready." 
Laurion will not remain a rookie for long if he continues to log so much time. He is presently the second busiest goalie in the league. 
As far as freshman counterparts go, Laurion is in a class by himself. Denver is the only other team to start a freshman goalie with two frosh sharing the time. 
With success there is often a change of approach but Laurion insists that his goals are basically the same as when he arrived with a lot of learning still to come. "At the beginning of the year I just Much of the Irish leers' success can be attributed to the brilliantwanted to get to play in about 10 or goaltending of freshman Dave Laurion. [photo by John Mancor]12 games," says the all-around athlete. "Now I hope to finish in the top four in the league. But I still have a lot of improving to do. I 
Top Ten WCHA goalies

learn something from every goal I give up." 
Laurion is easy to spot on the ice GOALIE w L T GP GA AVE. regardless of whether he has pads on or not because of his diminutive Bob lwabucci, North Dakota 2 2 0 4.13 7 1.69 size. "My size can be an Dave Laurlon, Notre Dame 6 1 1 8.15 26 3.19 advantage or a disadvantage,'' Roy Schultz, Wisconsin 3 1 0 4.00 15 3.75 notes Laurion. "While I don't take Steve Janaszak, Minnesota 0 3 0 9.12 35 3.84 up as much space in the net, I am Julian Baretta, Wisconsin 2 3 1 6.30 25 3.97 quicker and a lot closer to the ice John Rockwell, Michigan Tech 4 3 0 6.98 28 4.01 than anyone else." Scott Robinson, Denver 4 1 1 6.17 25 4.05 
And as long as Laurion stays Doug Belland, Michigan State 2 2 0 4.43 18 4.06 closer to the ice, Notre Dame will Bill Stankoven, North Dakota 3 2 0 4.43 18 4.06 stay closer to the top. Bill Perkl. UMD 3 3 1 7.26 32 4.41 

Ex -Reds comment on Anderson 
CINCINATTI [AP]-Sparky An­derson changed the last couple of years he was with the club, according to Jack Billingham who pitched for the Reds until traded away last spring. 
"The first few years I was with the club he was a lot stricter," said Billingham, who is now pitching for the Detroit Tigers. "Toward the end, the spring trainings started getting easier. 
"When I first got there , he always said he had one set of rules, but everyone knew he had two, one for the big guys and one for the rest. Afer spring training in 1975, he admitted to us in a team meeting that he had two sets of rules, that he was only trying to fool himself." 
Billingham concluded that his former manager had lost the "grip" that he had before on his players. 
"He got to be too friendly," Billingham said. "He couldn't get on them any more. But it is hard to get on a Pete Rose or a Johnny Bench or a Joe Morgan. 
"It is a hard job knowing that if you make any of eight guys upset then you are the one to go. You can can't really put your foot down. 

"When you have nine superstars, they almost handle you instead of you handling them." 
Anderson's answer was that "every man has his tricks: I had mine." 
We won more than any team in baseball. That says something," Anderson said. 
Another former Red, Tony Perez was a valuable ingredient in the Anderson pennant-winning team. He was traded after the Reds won 
[continued on page 11] 

jerome (thoroughbred) 
it was crystal clear from the life he led the boy would be a thoroughbred hls name jerome 
he had a gift that few could claim running back would be his name jerome 
his dream not stardom nor vision fame he would find them both at notre dame jerome 
records tumbled the gipper's fell a legend soon began to swell jerome. 
yet still his mind remained so clear his humility became a joy to hear for those so distant and those so near we salute you once so YOU can hear jerome you're home we're glad NOTRE DAME'S your HOME. 

j.k. quinn '68 
\ 






