
April 26, 1978 

HPC elects officers, Nazz lnterhall contest 
' ' .
appoints representatives draws nineteen acts 
SMC holds energy· conference : : 
dinger, representin~g~th~e~M:a:r:a:th:o::n~.!z~oo~C~ol~le~g~e:.;_;~L~ak~e~~~~~c~o~l-:.._==----..:_-----.....:..-----------r----------------1 

\
COfl\lNC( JATURDA'l: 


IRI)U \VAKE 
qPI\. -lAJ"-. SrePAN GEN1ER 
lz,.oo 
oN. ~ 1M' OliJll\14 \lA~ ~wl 'T\)( Ofi::lC.E. 
by Jack Pizzolato and Kathleen ConneUy Senior Staff Reporter~~ 

The Hall Presidents Council (HPC) elected two officers and appointed representatives to the Campus Life Council (CLC) and the Student Government's Board of Commissioners at a meeting held last night in Pangborn Hall. 
Former Cavanaugh President Andy Sowder was elected executive coordinator of the HPC and Junior Julie Breed was elected secretary. 
The executive coordinator is in charge of financing, budgeting and hall allotments. 
The HPC appointed Bill Vita, St. Ed's president to represent the Council at CLC meetings. Holy Cross president Dan Darfler was named as HPC representative to the seven member Student Govern­ment Board of Commissioners. 
In other actions, Student Union (SU) Calendar Office Coordinators Roseanne Pozgai and Joanne Dowd presented a proposal to facilitate communications between the SU Calendar Office and the individual dorms. The plan called for a representative to be selected in each hall who would be responsible for maintaining an up-to-date cal­ander of hall and campus events. Information on hall events will be relayed to the SU Calendar Office who would coordinate the events and advise on scheduling. 
The Hall Calendar representa­tives will be appointed by the 
by Maria Frigyesi 

"Energy: Exotic Sources" will be the topic of discussion during today's conference to be held in LeMans' Stapleton Lounge. The Saint Mary's Department of Business Administration and,. Economics is sponsoring the pro­gram about non fossilized energy sources in conjunction with the american Petroleum Institute, the Indiana Petroleum Council, and the South Bend-Mishawaka Area Chamber of Commerce, Inc. 
Following registration, Dr. Wil­liam A. Hickey, vice-president and dean of faculty, will begin the 
program with a welcoming address 
at 3pm. A discussion of alternate sources of energy and Gulf's 
inv0lvement in their development
will be conducted by Richard R. Goeken. President of Gulf Mineral Resources Company, a division of 
Gulf Oil. 
A presentation ?Y Edwa~d ~· Heydinger on honzontal diVest!­ture. Congress' action concer~ing it, and its impact on Amencan 
consumers regarding jobs and energy costs will follow. Hey-individual hall presidents, and the system should be in operation by next year. 
Student Body Vice-Presidert Mike Roohan also addressed th.! HPC on student government mat­ters affecting the halls. Before his discussion he introduced new Co­ex Commissioner Bruce Boivin to the Council. "We want to start introducing to the Council student government personnel who may have contacts with the hall presi­dents" Roohan said. Boivin's position involves the coordination of Saint Mary's-Notre Dame ser­vices, such as the shuttle bus and co-ex meal plan. 
Roohan then informed the HPC on the procedures necessary for requesting renovations in the halls. 
According to Roohan, hall presi­dents should contact their rectors with ideas for possible dorm improvements. The rectors would then submit these proposals to Fr. Jerome Wilson, administrator of physical plant maintenance for final approval. Some of the suggested renovations may be completed this summer, Roohan said. 
Next, Roohan spoke on Fire safety in the halls. He announced that the student government through fire safety task force would evaluate the fire safety equipment in each dorm. He cited specific problems in the halls with electrical wiring and fire escapes. Members of the task force are Housing Commissioner John Simari, Junior John Ryan and Sophomore Mike Gilroy. 
Oil Company, is manager of their economics division. A brief question and answer period, followed by a reception, will conclude the 2-hour program. 
Saint Mary's intention is to "bring a piece of the action outside into an academic atmosphere to promote student interest," Dr. Frank Yeandel, professor of business economics stated. "Stu­dents can never learn about prob­!ems unless they are exposed to them," pe continued. 
"The problem of energy is a tremendous problem in the world today. We've developed a society based on energy and energy con­trol. Everything has an energy 
translation," Yeandel explained.
••America has experienced a period of transition concerning sources of 
energy." he added.
Students and faculty from the 
following colleges and universities ha,ve been invited to participate: Ancilla College; Andrews Univer­sity; Ball State University; Bdhel College; Calumet College; Glen Oaks Community College; Goshen College; Holy Cross Jr. College;
Hope College; Indiana University, northwest branch; IUSIB; Kalama-Acting provost, Fr. Ferdinand Brown, spoke yesterdiilY at the Army ROTC spring awards ceremony. [photo by jlohn Cal­cutt] 
Roohan also spoke on another task force the student governmenthas set up to recruit individuals interested in working on specific 
campus problems. ''We want to take advantage of the vast human 
resources available at this univer-.• 
sity," Roohan stated. • After Roohan's remarks, the • • HPC discussed how the hall presi-• • 
]continued on page 2] • • 
• 

lege; Purdue University; North • 8 Central; Saint Mary's; Southwest-8 8 ern Michigan College; Notre • Special 10% Discount • 
Dame; Valparaiso University; and • • Western Michigan University. e On All Merchandise To Notre Dame e 
~---...-..·----~~·-• · -& Saint Mary's.Students. · .e 

[The ··~····················· 
l1'inJfammer 
CREATIVE DESIGN THE SEXES
REIA~G 
iU.l, 
ATMOSPHERE 

FREE HAIR ANALYSIS RK RE'TAD.. CEINTER 
J~­
1637 LWW 
. . ,-.... , So. ~end _ i3~.;f.6!~lv. 
.'-:\ ·. 'f . 
JanaSchutt 

The Nazz held its first annual Interhall Music Competition on Friday, Apri114, and last Saturday. 
According to Enrique Lulli, Nazz 
director, "The contest was a great 
success. The five judges were hard 
pressed to come to a decision on 
the final winners." 
Six prize winners were announced 
at the end of the competition. They 
were Gene Barbanera, Jim Kotor­
ac, and Jim Speier from Grace, first 
place; Terry Donahue, Pam Gay, 
and Aubrey Payne from off cam­
pus, second place; and Mike 
Franken and Don Ginocchio from 
Cavanaugh, third place. 
There was a three-way tie for 
fourth place between Jack Sneider 
and Bill Carey, off campus; Kevin 
Kirk, Fisher; and George Wilmes, 
Bill Eckert, Barry Stevens, matt 
Feeny, Steve Podry, Tom 
Gaughan, and Andy Hicks, How­
ard. 
Prizes were $50, $35, $25, and 
$20 respectively. 
All participants received certifi­
cates of recognition •'for outstand­
ing performance in April of 1978 in 
the First Annual Nazz Interhall Music Competition of the Univer­.sity of Notre Dame in demonstrat­
.THE STUDENT PLAYER~ 
AND YOUR STUDENT UNIO~/ ,
rPRESENT . A NEIL SIMON COMEDY
''COME BLQ.W YOUR HORN.''' 
, • 


28 h o 
l 1 ft; J 
APRIL s ows at 7&1 
29 8:00 On Y . \ $1.00 JN T'HE Nr ,4ZZ \
.f:l. , 
.,... \ 

·ing outstanding and unique use of 
talent and creativity in the field of 
music." 
A total of ~19 acts representing fourteen halls and off campus participated in the competition. 
Lulli explained that the idea for the contest came from his native Lima, Peru. A similar sort of championship is held on the beaches there each year. 
The purpose of the Nazz is to provide campus entertainment, according to Lulli. That was the main reason for the initiation ofthis new program, he said. 
Lulli remarked that the contest also gave Notre Dame students an outlet for the many talents that they have hidden in their dorm rooms. He added that he hoped 
•'that the competition would become an annual tradition at the Nazz and the University. Response this year was fantastic. Hopefully, next year we will be able to run the show for two weekends, both Friday and Saturday. There are immeasurable possibilities for the competition in the future." 
Any contestants who have not collected their certificates may do so in the Student Government office. 
~.~ 

---------:----:--­
the obseryer Wednesday, April26, 1978 

In Walsh chapel 
Malloy speaks on premarital sex 
by Kathy McEntee 

Fr. Edward Malloy, professor of theology and former Notre Dame basketball player, presented an informal talk on premarital sex last night in Walsh Hall chapel. His presentation to the mostly fe~a!e audience focused on the toptc s relation to the contemporary. Chris­tian. 
Malloy began by noting that many current questions involving premarital sex have never been faced before. He then presented several factors which he felt have caused the recent appearance of such questions. Mallo~ first pointed to "our contraceptive ~ul­ture," noting that such devtces have not eliminated many of the difficulties related to premarital 
sex. The current VD epidemic and 
high illegitamacy rates serve as 
evidence that "many are still 
paying the price." 
The theoretical breakdown of the double standard, emphasis on sta­tistically defined "normal" sexual behavior, and concentration on sexual technique are other factors which have led to increased confu­sion and often fear in the area of premarital sexuality, according to Malloy. To Malloy the main problem lies in people's failure to differentiate between "what we can do and what we should do." 
Malloy then explored the physi­ology and psychology of sexual arousal, by first stating that "there are only so many ways to express affection, especially in a dating context." He hypothesized that these expressions have innate meanings beyond their culturally defined meanings. According to Malloy, progression through various physical stages in a rela­tionship can only find significance in relation to the ultimate sexual act. Our culture ignores this context by its misplaced concentra­tion on how far to go and what each individual stage means. 
Malloy then discussed the difference that personal conscious­ness can make in a sexual relation­ship. He believes that in most premarital situations, while there is a "strong sense of self and well-developed sense of the other person, it is felt that society has no stake in the relationship." To Malloy this is a mistaken notion in that premarital sex is "inevitably 
---......-------------------.... social."

We offer the finest in men's hair cutting 
'The Knights
-~ 
' 

Only 5 minutes from campus 277-1691
Tues. & Wed. 8:30;6:30 
272-0312

Thurs. & Fri. 8 :30-8 :30 
54533 Terrace Lane

Sat. 8 :30-5 :30 
................................. APPLICAliONS 
for all SMC Students interested in Organizing and Implementing the 1978 
;******************~ ~ New Student Orientation ~ ~ may now apply in : 
******************** Student Activities Office 166 laMans 
Deadline Monday, May I 
While Scriptures offer little of normative value about sexuality, and Christian tradition views sex as only significant in marriage, Mal­
[continued on page 5] Fr. Edward Malloy professor of theolo­gy, spoke on pre-marital sex last night in Walsh Hall. (photo by John Calcutt] 

\ 
I 




i / ·~. 
/"t ; .. 
.=s. 

Colorado legislature invokes law, gives residents tax break 
DENVER[ API-The Colorado Legis­property taxes by that amount. lature, invoking a new law that -A nine bill tax reduction package 
limits the growth of state spending, that will reduce payments by is giving residents a $101 million individuals and businesses to the tax break. state by an estimated $66 million. 
The law requires that excess Gov. Richard Lamm has given no revenue be returned to the state's hint of whether he will sign the 
2.2 million citizens in the form of bills, but a veto is considered very tax relief. unlikely in a year when he is 
The reduction will mean savings seeking re-election. of at least $53 for a family of four The most innovative measure in with an income of 518,000 when· the tax reduction package will link that family pays state taxes on their state tax payments to inflation. 1978 income, state officials say. Under the bill, deductions allowed 
The tax relief will take this form: on state returns will increase each -A $35 million appropriation to year by a percentage equal to the increase state funding of public rate of inflation in the preceeding 
schools, in effect reducing local year. 



r-------------------------,I
IJffiRARY SPECIALS TONIGHT 
Anheuser Busch N~ht 
25c O.ff All A.B. Products Including 
Michelob L~ht  
I  Drawings For  !  
I1  T-Shirts, Mirrors, etc.  I1  
I  I  
II  7 .d . h-+ffil ntg t  II  

The tax relief was made possible last year when the Legislature passed a law limiting the growth of state spending to 7 percent a year. After setting aside money for emergencies, all "excess" revenue was to be returned in the form of tax relief. 
Both the state spending limit and the tie to inflation are unique in the nation, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Tennessee has amended its consti­tution to block spending beyond the 
rate  of  growth  of  the  state's  
economy.  
The  spending  limit  is  being  

watched closely by several other states where similar laws or consti­tutional amendments are being considered. 
The spending limit was enacted after a decade that saw Colorado's state spending grow at an average annual rate of 15.8 percent, from $239.6 million in 1968 to Sl billion this year. 
The state tax burden had grown at an average annual rate of 10.2 percent, from $104 per taxpayer in 1968 to an estimated $273 per taxpayer this year. 
"People were just getting clob­bered," said state Rep. Paul Swaim, a Denver Republican who wrote the bill linking taxes to inflation. "A lot of us would like to see the national government do it." 
The state had a $1 billion general fund budget for the current fiscal year, meaning only $1.07 billion could be allocated for state spend­ing in the fiscal year beginning July 
1. But a strong economy and increasing population have been boosting tax revenues, so $101 million in anticipated revenues is left for the mandated tax relief.

Applications now being accepted for the 


Student Union 
On-Campus Mailman 
See the S.U. Secretary by Fri. for the Application 

This is a Paid Position 

Of Tongsun Park 




Brademasignorant of 'connections' 
by Mtcbael Lewis • assoctated wtth Korea." the governmentti'r.~·.~ ·. ·· ·· •·· ·······.·•·•···· ·. ·. · .·.··.. -·•·•··.····.··. •••· · ·· ·.· ·.· ·· ··· · •· .• .•.·•.· ·.· ·•• ••·····•···· · · · ..···•·•· ·• .. •···.· ·. ••·.••.•··.·• ·. ••·······•·. ·.
South .·. .. · ·. ···••·••···•• ·• •···••······•··••
Brademas, ···•• •• •• ·.· · · · ····• · ··.· · ·.· .· · · ··. · .. · · ·. ·· · 
News Editor third-ranking House Democrat, is and the House majority whip and Kathy Connelly represents Indiana's third district, 
Senior Staff Reporter which includes South Bend. Due to the confidential nature of 
Representative John Brademas intelligence agencies' employment(D-IN) had no knowledge of Tong­records, Sullivan noted, it would be sun Park's alleged connections difficult to determine if Park was 
with the South Korean Government acting as a government agent. "I when he accepted three campaign doubt if he was acting as an agentcontributions from the Korean of the government. If he was, businessman in the early seventies, Brademas had no knowledge of it,'' a spokesman for Brademas repor­he added. ted yesterday. Park appeared Sullivan stated Brademas had before the House Ethics Committee 
not "drawn a conclusion" concern­last month to answer questions ing Park's working relationship
about his role in lhe alleged with the South Korean Govern­scheme by the South Korean ment. However, he speculated, "I Government to buy Congressional think it will be interesting when the 
influence. 
House Ethics Committee con­Frank Sullivan, administrative 
cludes. There seems to be substan­In testimony during the commit­in 1974, and the forgiveness of an $1,800 figure. Sullivan explained,assistant to Brademas, said, "At 
tial evidence that there was an tee hearings, Park repeatedly $1,800 bill for a party at Park's was for a 1972 fund raising partythe time these contributions were unusually close relationship denied trying to buy influence in George Towne Club in 1972. for which "Park paid the tab."
made, Brademas had no knowledge between the South Korean Govern­Congress for the South Korean Sullivan explained that these Sullivan commented that Brad­that Park was employed by or 
ment and Park for a businessman.'' Government, according to the were campaign contributions, and, emas and Park "have known each Associated Press (AP). The AP "in accordance with the Campaign other for 15 years." "They were reported that Park acknowledged Disclosure Act, have been a matter tenants in the same apartment giving $850,000 to 29 Congress­of public record since the begin­building when Brademas was a men. Park insists he acted out of ning." young Congressman and Park was business interests. "Without trying to cast aspira­a student at Georgetown Univer­
However, Peter White, deputy tions elsewhere, not too many sity," he added. council to the committee, was members of Congress who have The AP quoted Park as saying he quoted in Newsweek (April 17) as received money from Park can say gave the money to Brademas saying, "Legally, politically and that it has been a matter of public because "he was a good friend.'' constitutionally, he (Park) was in record from the beginning," he Sullivan noted that, although every way a representative of the added. Brademas did not give public Korean Government when he gave The $500 check was received testimony before the Congressional money to members of Congress.'' through the mail in response to a committee, Brademas had spoken 
According to the AP, Park told general mail solicitation, Sullivan with the committee in private. the Congressional committee he said, and deposited into a general Sullivan also stressed that the gave moneyto Bradema.s on three campaign fund. The $2,950 cash Justice Department ·has not separate occasions: a 1970 check contribution was also in a general initiated an investigation into for $500, a $2950 cash contribution campaign fund, he stated. The Brademas' relationship with Park. 
Brezhnev promises deferment of neutron bomb production 
MOSCOW [AP] -· Soviet Presi­will not begin production of neu-missiles and artillery shells. It dent Leonid I. Brezhnev promised tron arms so long as the United produces twice the deadly radiation yesterday that the Soviet Union will States does not do so," he said. of a conventional nuclear bomb but not build neutron warheads unless "Further development will depend less than a tenth as much explosive the United States eventually on Washington." power, heat and fallout--meaning it decides to produce the controver­It was Brezhnev's first public would kill people while causing sial weapons. response to Carter's announcement little damage to buildings except in 
President Carter's decision to that he was putting off a decision the impact area. defer production of neutron bombs on U.S. production of the bomb. The Soviet president also told the was "at best a half measure," His promise appeared to fall 5,000 communist youths from 100 Brezhnev said in a televised speech short of what Carter had in mind countries that some progress was 
At last, Spring is in the air! And with some luck [miracles] it will to the Young Communist League. when he said a final decision not to made toward a strategic arms remain there. See page two for tomorrow's forecast. [photo by ''But I can inform you that we deploy the bomb would depend on limitation agreement during Secre­ohn Calcutt] have taken the president's state­some act of reciprocal restraint tary of State c;yrus R. Vance's ment into account and that we, too, from Moscow. just-concluded visit to Moscow. 
U.S. Defense Secretary Harold Brezhnev appeared to come Brown said after Carter's closer to what Carter and Brown announcement that non-production were talking about by saying the of a Soviet neutron bomb would be Soviet Union does not plan to
Carter pleads for tax cut 
"an unsatisfactory response.'' increase its forces in central Eur-W ASHINGTON[AP]-President completely convinced that the tax reduction than we would have Brown said the United States ope "by a single soldier, by a Saudis want the planes to protect otherwise,'' the presidlent said. was looking for a more substantive single tank.''
Carter, faced with opposiition from 
their own security." The sale has Although Carter used the $25 gesture from the Soviets, for whom He gave no hint of a Sovietwithin his own party, pleaded anew 
yesterday for passage of his tax been opposed by some who fear the billion figure in talking of his the bomb, primarily an anti-tank cutback in Europe but said "we general tax cut, the Treasury weapon, would be less useful than have not been enlarging our armed
cut, saying failure to do so would Saudis would use the U.S. supplied 
cost each American family $600 F-15 jetfighters in any offensive Department has revised its esti-for the Western allies, who face forces in central Europe for a long against Israel. mate of the president's proposed massive Soviet tank deployment in time and do not intend--this I want 
and swell unemployment rolls by 
another 1 million people. -Said he has found dealing with the net tax cut, saying it would be just Europe. to stress most emphatically--do not Carter insisted that his proposal federal bureaucracy ''worse than I under $24 billion instead of being The neutron bomb is a small intendto increase them by a single 
for a net income tax reduction of anticipated" before taking office, 
in the $25 billioni:Fra=n~e=·===::::::::::::::::::::::::::::w=ar=h=e=a=d=th=a=t=w=o=u=ld=b=e=p=la::::c::::e::::d:::::::on==s=ol=d=ie=r=.="==========!=l$25 billion in the new fiscal year and called for prompt congression­beginning Oct. 1 would not fuel al action on his legislation aimed at 
inflation, a specter raised by con­overhauling the civil service gressional Democrats who are system. seeking a smaller cut. The president said he has no 
In a nationally televised news intention of scaling down or delay­conference Carter also: ing the effect of his tax cut -Delivered an emotional defense of proposal, due to take effect at the 
his proposals for revising the laws beginning of fiscal 1979. governing the collection of taxes "I hope that the Congress can Saint Mary's women from U.S. citizens. He cited as an act rapidly enough to make the vie for the campus> flag
example a $14,000 deduction reduction effective then," Carter 
football championship. claimed by a surgeon to entertain said, adding: The winner plays the fellow doctors on a yacht. ''Most "The last quarter's results in the NO champion on Sunny 
Americans don't even have a growth in our national product 
Saturday of An Tostal. 
yacht." Carter said. showed some leveling off. It needs 
Be there! [photo by 
-Rejected Soviet President Leonid to be kept strong and vigorous. If john Citlcutt] Brezhnev's offer to forego produc­this tax proposal does not go tion of a Russian neutron bomb if through, by the end of 1979 it the United States will do likewise. would cost every family in America Carter said the idea was "of no on the average $600 in income, 
significance" because the weapon about $40 billion in reduced income 
would be of no use to the Soviets because of a constrained economy anyway. that did not continue to grow. -Repeated his insistence that Con­''And if the tax reduction of $25 gress approve the ali-or-nothing, billion was eliminated, it would 
package sale of U.S. warplanes to mean we would have .1 million more Egypt and Saudi Arabia as well as people out of work by the end of the to Israel. Carter said, "I am first 12 months after the start of the 
Wednesday, April 26, 1978
the observer 

,....News Briefs---------. 
1==::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::======::::=:::========= National 
Mitchell granted .furlough 
WAHSINGTON • Former Attorney general John N. Mitchell was granted another medical furlough yesterday, his sixth, to permit his convalescence from the hip surgery he had earlier this month. Attorney General Griffin B. Bell extended Mitchell's leave from the ' federal prison camp at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama until midnight May 26. 
Mondale to go on trip 
WASHINGTON-One objective of Vice President Walter Mondale's trip to the South Pacific will be to allay concern about U.S. policy after the Indochinese war, administration officials said yesterday. The officials, asking not to be identified publicly, said Mandate's 12-day trip will stress the Cat'ter administration's commitment to stability in Southeast Asia. The 28,500-mile journey will be the vice president's fourth for President Carter. Mondale will begin the journey on Saturday, stopping in Hawaii until Monday. 
Weather 

Sunny and pleasant today with highs around 60. Clear and cool 
tonight with frost likely. Lows in the low to mid 30s. Sunny and 
pleasant tomorrow with highs in the low 60s. 
~On Campus Today_-----.,~ 
12:15 
pm & 7:30 

12:15 
pm 


4:15pm 
5:15pm 6:30pm 6:30pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 
10 am· 5 pm 

presentation, "consciousness and the nervous system-scientific research on the transendental meditation program," sponsored by students in­ternational meditation society, 108 o'shag. 
seminar, "in vivo laboratory evaluation of antibac­terial chemotherapeutic agents," dr. a. katherine miller, merck inst., sponsored by microbiology dept., 278 galvin au d. 
reilly lecture, "theory: mixtures of simple liquids," dr. keith e. gubbins, sponsored by chem. engr., conf. rm., radiation lab. 
mass, rev. robert morlino, s.j., sponsored by hunger coalition, walsh hall chapel. 
meeting, sailing club, 204 engr. bldg. 
carnival, an tostal, opening night at stepan center lot. 
meeting, election of officers, sponsored by pan-american club of nd/smc, international student lounge, Iafortune. 
concert, bob seger & the silver bullet band, tix $8 & $7, ace. 
american scene cultural series, "a cns1s in south africa: implications for the united states,'' a. peter walshe, nd, carroll hall, smc. 
philosophy of religion lecture, second lecture on "truth," peter geach, sponsored by dept. of philosophy, galvin aud. 
concert, notre dame woodwind quintet, sponsored by dept. of music, lib. aud. 
spring book sale, friends of the library at notre dame, mem. lib. concourse. 
-------· An Tostal ·-------· 
Trivia finalists announced 
Last night, in four very competitive matches, the finalists for the An Tostal Trivia Bowl were determined. Stanford edged by St. Ed's by a score of 42-38, and Pangborn, led by Mike Henry, defeated Morrissey 39-35 for the South Quad Championship. 
In women's action, Badin established themselves as the favorites with a convincing 52-26 win over Walsh. LeMans copped the SMC title via a 36-28 victory over McCandless. The men's final will be held at 2:30 Thursday on the Main Quad featuring Stanford and Pangborn. Then at 3:05, Badin and LeMans will vie for the Women's title. 
Kee,Drake win chugging titles 
An Tostal began with a blast yesterday at Lee's Barbeque when it took Tracy Kee three overtimes to defeat Peggy Kabbes to decide the women's chugging contest. Kee, an. ND senior from Farley and Kabbes, a SMC senior from LeMans, had to drink their way through three qualifying heats before they reached the final round. The girls matched each other for three overtime rounds with a minute's rest in between, but it was Kee who came out on top when Kabbes could not come out for the bell. 
Participants saw another upset as Gordon Drake defeated Bill 
Brittan in the finals of the men's chugging contest.  Drake,  an ..  
off-campus senior,  bested  Brittan,  a  Dillon  junior,  after  many  
delicious rounds of competition.  ·  

Trophies were awarded the winners, with barrelhead wall plaques going to the top ten finishers. Frisbees were also awarded as prizes. 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's is hoping to recruit volunteers for the 1978-79 school year. The group is associated with the national Big Brother organization. 
As a Big Brother or Big Sister, the student volunteer's role is to provide friendship. A weekly or biweekly game of basketball, movie walk around campus, cookie baking session or just face-to-face talk will show the boy or girl that someone cares. 
The organization offers Club baseball trips, bowling tourna­ments, football tickets and other group activities to enhance the relationship as a volunteer. Free vehicle usage, by both the indivi­dual volunteer and the group, is made possible through the Volun­


Faster's Mass 

Fr. Robert Morlino, S.J., will celebrate this week's Fasters' Mass at 5:15 tonight in the Walsh Hall chapel. Morlino is a professor of philosophy at Saint Mary's. All who are fasting are invited to attend. 
Costello cancels speech 
Lionel Costello, commissioner of immigration and naturalization, will not speak tonight at 7:30 in the Law School as scheduled. Costello was called unexpectedly to the White House and is unable to leave Washington. 




ERRATUM 

In yesterday's article on the selection of the Student Union Steering Committee, Student Union Director Bill Roche was incorrectly quoted as saying "On April 4th I reported to the Board of Commis­sioners that we would be getting the Steering Committee together later in the month. Andy (McKen­na, student body president) was there at the time and he didn't even catch it." 
Roche made the comment before the Student Union Commissioners, not the Board of Commissioners, and McKenna was not present at that meeting. 
*The Observer 
Carnival Night Editor: Rosemary "Siz­zler" Mills Asst. Nnght Editor: Sue "Fer­ris Wheel" Wetcher Layout Staff: Rained Out Sports Layout: Mark "Mid­way" Perry Typists: Mary Jo "Roller Coaster" Cushing, Mark "Stuffed Animal" Rust, Beth "Coin Toss" Rizzo EMT: me [Star Attraction] not by my own admission. Thanks 
R.M. Too Good for me! Day Editor: John G. McDer­mott Amusement Co. Copy Reade1r: Jerry "Hurri­cane" Perez Ad Layout: Matt "P.R." De­Salvo Photographer: John "Cotton ~ndy" Calcutt 
aqa)l >jUeJ~ Ol papJeMe seM ~1:-v Ol Lt-v JO} >jaaM ayl }O Jaded 
The Observer Is published Mon­dly through Fridly except during ex1m 1nd vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme 1nd S1lnt Miry's College. Subscriptions mey be purch8Sed for $20 per yeer CS I o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dime, lndlene 46556. Second c11ss post1ge peld, Notre D1me, lndllne, 4U56. . The Observer Is 1 member of the Asaoclltecl Preu. All repro­
dudlon rights 1re reserved. 

Big Brothers/Big Sisters seeks student volunteers 
teer Services Office on campus. 
A special need is for black volunteers from campus, as ap­proximately 65 percent of the youths are black, although mixed race relationships are standard and, of course, effective for both volunteer and youth. 
Students interested in becoming a Big Brother or Big Sister should contact Mark Bruggeman (272-5567) or Dan Monroe (1166). 
SU logo contest continues 
Entries are still being accepted for the Student Union logo contest. The Union will pay $25 to the best new design, to be used on all SU notices. The contest will end Friday at 5 p.m. 



Applications 
for Senior Bar Staff 
Guys and Girlswanted for positions as 
Bartenders, Bouncers, etc. 
Pick up applications at Student Affairs (315 Ad bldg) 
HPC meeting 

[continued from page 3] 
dents might deal with apathy in 
their halls. The hall presidents 
'agreed that apathy among seniors . was a special problem. As a result, some halls have established com­mittees tQ specifically organize
I
·activities for seniors, noted Ed Durbin, oresident of Carroll Hall. 
Initiative 


presented 

[continued from page 5] the establishment of the Council of Communications, the various advisory boards, the Board of commissioners views on the Hun­ger and Third World Conference, LaFortune renovation and Hall Social Space improvement pro­gram, a Consolidated Student Acti­vities Advertising Policy, Course Evaluations, Alternative Funds Expenditures and Projected Funds Expenditures of Major Student Organizations. 

Wednesday, April 26, 1978 

For Commissioner's meeting 




Students present initiative to SG 
by Michael Lewis requires a valid petition of 200 food for thought," he said. that he was interested in other 
News Editor undergraduates to ''cause the Mike Roohan, student body Vice-ideas the group might have. 
Board of Commissioners to consi-President, said "At first I con-The initiative asked that the 
An initiative delivered to the der a specific resolution within one sidered the intitiative an insult. Board of Commissioners "meet, Student Government last evening week of the presentation of t1.'! You're asking us to be more consider, and publicly respond to presented ten specific issues the petition." : responsive, and I think we have the following questions and Board of Commissioners must ad-Jim O'Hara, spokesman for the been." He added that the initiative points;" Appointments within the dress at their first meeting Thurs-group of four students, said the was originally inserted into the Department of Student Affairs, day night. initiative was not intended as a Constitution as a "last resort" if Student Union Ticket Policy, The 
The initiative procedure, as "threat." The move is "a way to the Student Government did not act disposition of Senior Bar profits, outlined in the newly adopted get the Student Government to on an issue. , [continued on page 2j ~ Student Government Constitution, address issues" and "just some 
The group said the initiative was , ~.:::::===~~~~, 
an "alternative!' way of bringing r:--===:-:::::;:::::-:=-::;----~
Mallory spf)aks informally issues to the Student Government. I 'l'f'DNTJQN.•

Rob Civitello explained, "It's a
on premarital sex 
formal way of asking questions and [continued from page 4] inst_itution of marriage which is making suggestions." "There are loy contends that there is a third destgned to support that relation. a number of students interested in Aft b . fl d" · h these questions," O'Hara added.
perspective looking at acts of . ~r ne Y tscusstng t e sexuality in terms of gestures. Chnstian ideals in relation to living "It's not an attempt to embarrass Certain gestures which Molloy together, Malloy then noted that the Student Government. If i.t's defined as sociall; predefined ways many feel th3:t the ~hristian already being done, fine. Just let of communicating withough words standards are mappropnate for us know." become symbols which "transcend modem society. He stressed, Roohan pointt:d out that !>even of the concrete circumstances in however, that these standards the ten issues were already on the which they take place." Hetero-::olved t~?ugh the exp":rience of agenda for Thursday's meeting. sexual premarital genital inter-e Chnsti~n commumty over He said the initiative "was not the 
U


emd 19 
A Senior Cultural Arts Festival is being planned for next year. 
any =f

course is one such symbol. many years m many cultures and best way to approach it. There are h---...--.~-----' """'----------""' 
Malloy then examined the should !herefore not be dismissed many ways to approach the Student interested in being Chairperson or Christian community's concept of so;e~dil_y · . Government. It would have been CD • menDer should drop off a statement of the sexual act as one of self-0 owtng thts talk, which was so easy to come up and talk to us." intent in the Student AdiVI"t•"es Offl"..... (1st floor 
donation and self-committment. sponso~ed_ by the Walsh Liturgical After a discussion with the four ...,. 
students, Roohan concluded that LaFortune) by Thursday April 27. For infonnation 
This community agrees that if a Com~usston, .~alloy answered 
couple is ready for such a relation-qu~sti~ns pertammg to many other he had taken the initiative "in the call Jeny A!rez (6721) or Jeny Castellini C2216). ship, it should take place in the toptcs 10 the area of sexuality. wrong spirit at first." He added Ll:::=::=::=::=:;;;:::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::=::::::ll 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
ROW TO REDUCE BUST 
YOU MAY BE WASHING THE WRONG SIDE OF YOUR CAR. 
Spring is a perftd time 
because salt, slush, and 
We're doing more now to to do something about rust 
even mud tend to collect in 
protect GM cars from rust Rusting is a year-round 
the crevices underneath the 
For one thing, were using problem, and corrosive con­
car, in the door creases, and 
more rust -resistant mate­ditions have become a lot 
inside the fenders. Moisture 
rials, including different worse in the last five years. 
gets trapped in those places 
types of zinc-coated steel, in If you live where salt is 
and causes rust. So try to 
places where rust usually oc­used to melt ice on the roads, 
wash the underside of your 
cu..'"S. Also, our new paint that isspeeding up corrosion 
car, too. In winter, ifyou can, 
primers and the way we on your car. Ifyou live in the 
and at the first opportunity 
apply them are designed to country, it's the calcium 
in spring. Even if it's only a 
provide a thorough finish, chloride that's spread on dirt 
few times a year, that would 
even on some parts of the roads to hold down dust. 
help some. 
car you can't see. And corrosive chemicals in 
Our goal is to protect the air are causing rust in 
Ifyour car getsdented, 
your car so that it lasts every part of America. 
scratched, or chipped., try 
longer and gives you the We're doing something 
to get it repaired as soon 
as possible. Even a "smaH" 
most value. And fighting to help prevent rust on the 
scratch is bad. Because once 
rust helps. new cars we're building. 
a car starts to rust, the dam­
This advertisement is part of
Meanwhile, you can do 
age spreads fast. The paint 
our continuitlf{ effort to give cus­
something about reducing 
around a dent or scratch can 
tomers useful mformation about 
their cars and tn«:ks and the company that builds them. 
rust on your car. 
look okay, but rust is spread­
It's imp<rtantto wash your 
ing underneath. In the long car often. Use a mild soap 
run, it's cheaper to fix the 

General Motors
and lukewarm or cold water. 
car right away. 
People building transportation 
to serve people

Please don't neglect 
A lot of people think that 
the underside of your car. 
parking a car in a heated The worst rusting happens 
garage during the. winter from the inside out. That's 
will help prevent rust. But it's just the opposite. Cold slows down the rusting pro­cess, as it does most chem­ical reactions. 
,.f____.,6___t_h_e_o_b_s_e_rv_e_r______w_e_d.,n-es·d-ay-.-A·p-ri-l2-6-,-19_7_8________ -~ ---------~-­

Group boycotts Nixon memoirs 

WASHINGTON [AP] -With posters and T-shirts as their weap­ons and "Don't Buy Books by Crooks'' as their battle cry, Tom Flanigan and Bill Boleyn are stick­ing a low-budget needle in both the hyping and the price of Richard Nixon's upcoming memoirs. 
"It just didn't strike us as right that the man who refused to give his tapes to the American people would turn around and sell a book for an outrageous price," Flanigan said Tuesday. "You shouldn't have to pay $20 to find out if he's giving us another bunch of lies four years later." 
Flanigan, 26, and Boleyn, 29, founded The Committee to Boycott Nixon's Memoirs with financial help from 17 friends who mutually claim that a man shouldn't profit from his disgrace. "He's this country's all-time celebrity crook," says Boleyn, "and we want people to think about that before they go to the bookstore." 
With help from a small Washing­ton ad agency, the committee hopes to make the non-purchase of Nixon's book, scheduled for release in mid-May at $19.95, a national fad. 
The group is taking out its own newspaper ads to coincide with the serialized excerpts of the memoirs, starting in 60 papers on Sunday, and is marketing T-shirts, posters and bumper stickers bearing their principal slogan or variations such as "The Book Stops Here," and "Erase the Memoirs." 
The committee operates out of a $100-per-month office in suburban 
:~;;~~~~~~;;;~~~;l 
t  for anyone who is interested  in  t  
t  t  
t  HOMECOMING '78  t  
tt  Thurs, April 27, at 4:00 in  tt  
t  The Social Commission Office  t  

a~~~~~~~.._.~~._.~~~~~~a 
Arlington, Va., on an initial stake of $39,500. Flanigan, a part owner of a rug cleaning firm in Virginia, put in $4,000 and Boleyn, part owner of a downtown Washington bar and restaurant came up with $3,000. 
Walter Cahill, a stagehand at Ford's Theater and a veteran who lost an eye in Vietnam, also put in $3,000. The rest came from friends dating back to high school, most of whom play for the same softball team. 
"We just want to break even," says Falnigan of the T-shirt and poster sales. "If we make any profit, we'll pump it back into the ad campaign." 
"We're just joining ranks in our own way with Mary McGrory, Carl Rowan, Joseph Kraft, Art Buch­wald and the many others who have written against checkbook journal­ism," said Boleyn. 
Nixon reportedly got a $2 million advance for the book from Warner Communications, which bought all rights. The newspaper and maga­zine excerpts starting Sunday are being handled by the New York Times syndicate; which says they will bring in nearly $950,000. 
Warner Communications has mounted a massive direct-mail campaign for the book, including solicitations for special editions at u to $250. 

rQ6L~)~J'(Y 

"And /or my second wish ..." 
7'~ 
For the real beer lover. 
by Michael Molinelli 
Court outlaws 
pension pian 


discrimination 

WASHINGTON [API • Women workers won an important legal victory yesterday as the Supreme Court outlawed all pension plans requiring them to contribute larger portions of their salaries than men. 
The court ruled that women cannot be forced to make propor­tionately larger pension payments just because they generally live longer than men. 
Such retirement plans, wide­spread throughout government and industry, violate federal law ban­ning sex discrimination in employ­ment, the justices decided in a 6-2 vote. 
Millions of workers participate in retirement plans which base pen­sion payments on life-expectancy studies showing that women gen­erally live longer than men and therefore collect more retirement benefits. 
The American Council of Life Insurance had said that outlawing such plans would "require radical changes in pension and retirement coverage available to American workers, and may substantially increase pension costs." 
Those extra costs under certain circumstances could total billions of dollars each year, the council said. 
In New York City alone, the court had been told by city officials, more than 300,000 Board of Education employees are covered by such pension plans. 
City attorney W. Bernard Rich­land said outlawing such plans would have "dire consequences" in New York and elsewhere. 
The court's decision Tuesday upheld rulings in favor of five women employees of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. 
The women had sued the city in 1973 in protest of having to pay into a compulsory pension fund 15 percent more of their salaries than men earning the same amount. 
In a separate matter, the court ruled unanimously that profession­al engineers violate federal anti­trust law when barring each other from competing for clients through competitive bids. 
The decision struck down a 14-year ethical practice enforced by the 69,000-member National Society of Professional Engineers under which engineers were not allowed to give prospective clients any hint of job costs until hired for the project. 
will give you "rn"''"'"
Soyouthink 

~~;~t~t::~~,;~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~~~~lilll~l~
Kuhona-Hoosier for both "the pro' professional model.:s~~:aLt:!loanJ .. : 
This classic event behind the Angela AHHet!c J!'c,i:J.cjlity:i J[ititth~$ita11ttS:m~t$t before the contest charged to those in 
For more jnfonna1tii:lll.: i~~lll Ram:iviatf61:)6; 
Connecticut baggage truck to Hartford and New Haven areas. Call Jim 3267 or Kevin 3361 for information. 
TYPING ...SELECTRIC TYPEWRITER.. . EXPERIENCED ....TERM PAPERS...... .. DISSERTATIONS......REASONABLE­ACCURATE. 232-5715. 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287-4971. 
Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh and back An Tostal weekend. She can pay, she can drive, ancl she is good company! Call 6734. 
Save next year's book money now. Pandora's buys used books for cash or credit next year. Besides, we have greatbooks for summer reading. 137 South Bend Ave. 11-6 daily. 
Nuns -Summer rent June through August. Four bedroom house, tri level. 255-5879 after 5 pm. 
Bus service to Chicago every Friday. Buses leave the circle at 6:05. For tickets and info, qall Shep 8330. 
Will do typing ..... Neat, accurate. Call 287-5162. 
LONG ISLAND TRUCK filling up. Deadline for deposits May 6. Send $5 deposit to Kevin Mescal, 319 Alumni Hall. Questions call Kevin 1'181 or Ed 7443. 
TYPING: Selectric typewriter. Experien­ced term papers, dissertations. Reason­able, accurate. 232-5715. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary Inc. , Professional Typing Services, IBM correcting Selectric. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the best." 
WANTED 

Ride needed to Chicago anytime. Friday 28th. Call Matt 1728 will share expenses. 
Summer church camp positions . Counselors for Boy's cabin . WSI's with current certification. Some college background preferrred. Good salary. Send resumes to: 333 West Colfax, South Bend. ATTN: Beem. 
OVERSEAS JOBS ....Summer-year round . Europe, S. America, Austarlia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor­mation-Write:BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkely, CA. 94704. 
New restarurant needs waitresses and kitchen help. Experinec helpful but not necessary. Apply in person after 1pm to Aunt Mikes Breakfast Barn, 51277 US 31 N, one block north of Auten Rd. Ask for Aunt Mike. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTAin PROS: Seasonal and year round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 301-654-3770, or send two resumes and two pictures to: Col. H. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Ave., Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
Living In Boston this summer and need a place to stay? Call 283-8148. 
Wanted: Summer rent11rs for nice house 3 blocks from campus -3,4, or ~i people. Call 283-8148. 
WANTED: Steel string accoust1ic guitar. Pay Cash. Joe Higinbotham, 2:32-0723. 
Looking for three female roomates for the summer at Campus View Apts. Call Bertie, 277-2798. 
HELP WANTED: Underclassmen wanted for stimulating enriching work...this summer and next year. Car necessary. Pandora's Books. 233-2342. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: Gold watch with engraved back. Lost in theN. Dining Hall, Farle11 Hall, or the road to SMC. Great sentimental value. Reward. Call Kathy 67S:1. 
LOST: One blue fiberglass raquetball raquet with leather grip. Reward. Call 1605 if found. 
LOST: Notre Dame warm up jacket while I was playing Bookstore with the Tiles. Call Kevin, 8986. 
LOST: Blue ND jacket at Nickles. Reward. Name in jacknt. 
FOUND: Timex watch by Saint Mary's lake. Call 2132. 
FOUND: General Motors car key in the field behind the ACC. Call 2132. 
LOST: SMC Campus gold peral bracelet. Great sentimental value. Please call Teresita, 4-1-4197. 
FOUND: ND gym bag in ACC locker room. Identify contents. Rob, 11464. 
LOST: Opal necklace lost Sat. AM on campus. Reward. Call 288-991:2 after 5 pm. 
LOST:45 foot long silvery kite, 3:30 pm 4-13 over campus. Larry 233-5151, 233-7299. 
FOUND: A 1978 St. Anselm's College Class Ring . Found in the library. Call 7825. 
FOUND: One set of keys. Between North Dining Hall and Ha~1gar. Claim atthe Observer office. 
LOST: FGiasses wire rim in brown case. Front of Morrissey. Please call Steve, 3419. 
FORI SALE 

Stereo equipment major brand discounts on fully guaranteed, factory sealed eqpt. Elliot Enterprises, f>ark Court, BUichanon Ml 49107. Call Niles toll free 68:3-0121. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWLAIID USC FOOTBALL: KENTUCKY MARYLAND AND UCLA BASKETBALL PICTURES FOR SALE. SPORTS ILLUSTIRATED MATERIAL AT A LOW PRICE. CALl DOUG 8982 OR STOP BY 318 ZJIIHM. 
For sale: Gibson LG-s Guitar. Perfect Condition. #325 call Terry 288-3i'06. 
Ugly man T-Shirts $3 proceeds go to Charity. 
For sale: Refrigerator...4 cubic feet Excellent Condition. Call1249. 
Sansui Receiver, non-working condition $50, TEAC reel to reel, $130, Pioneer speakers,. $100, Garrard turntable, $35, .........8338. 
For sale: Domex refrigerator has a freezer and comes with ice trays. $45. · Call 3058. 
FOR SALE: Loveseat style couch llhat has a hide-away bed. Come with a new mattress. Call 3058. 
FOR RENT 

Rent my sun porch in fall. $40 per month. Ask for Patty in orders. 233-1329. 
Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent. close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Fine house in a good neighborhood (Portage and Angela area). Reasonable rents. For 4-5-or 6students. Call Joseph Gatto, 234-6688. 
SUBLET: 5-15 or 6-1 to 9-1. Two bdrm apt. Fully furnished, very nice, 284-9562, 9-12 am; 287-8547 7-11 am. 
PERSONALS 

Happy Birthday Lenny Cullo! Everyday In every way, You're getting better and better.......wink, wink 
Splc and Mlck 

There will be live female acts in the no-talent show, plus beautiful female judge.'> including Grace F. from Walsh. 
Dillon no-talent show this Friday nite. 
Between Dillon and Alumni courtyard. 
Bring beer and blankets. 
Kegger in Green Field prior to the no-talent show. Every welcome this Friday night. 
Bernie and Kellee-don't fret, I'll quote you yet (I won't forget). 
Bruce 

SMC-ND students....Ara you an adopted child? Volunteers needed tor a sociologi­cal project. Please contact: Claudia (SMC) 4544. Confidentiality and anony mity assured. 
"Dear" One down ......oodles left. Alii want is Hart and his love forever. Happy Anniversary. 
Batoon 

Tony Pace, 
The Observer staff does not print "tasteless" personals, you$!!#-&=?!. PS: Bob Varettoni still deserves a raise. 
· Anonymous Observer staff unite. Now forming a "Give Bob Varettoni a Raise Cause He Is A Hard Working Guy" Coalition. Support the oppressed in their war with the Imperialist machinry. Campus Typists For Bob Varenttoni Com­mittee. 
Anyone interested in serving as the press secretary for Student Union's Cultural Arts Commission should contact Jerry at 6721. Observer experience desired but not necessary. 
Overeaters Anonymous meeting is now on campus. Call 289-6021 for time and place. 
Congratulations tom Van Eck NO pool Champion. 
No talent aint it... you are still #1 with me! 
Your cheerleader 

Dad Szczepanski,
Just a note of thanks for all your thoughtful! ness and advice\\ The naked well-tanned lover who the cops are after. 
ATTENTION RETURNING OBSERVER TYPISTS: Fill out Observer personnel forms found in my box by Thursday (4-27) and return to me. These forms are necessary for payment on Friday. 
Mardi 

.Can~er Society to sponser Bike-a-thon 
The American Cancer Society will sponsor a Bike-a-thon Saturda from 10 a.m. to noon. Participants will set out for the 11 mile route from the stadium parking lot, across from the ACC. Thos interested can pick up sponso sheets from Chris Twist in 353 Farley or Jim Grace in 315 St. Ed's. 
Among those scheduled to parti cipate are Coach Dan Devine, Stev Orsini, Terry Eurick and other senior football players. There wil be trophies and prizes for bi money riders. Free refreshment will be served courtesy of McDonald's and the Pepsi-Cola Co 

FLANNER' 
RECORD 

INVENTORY 
" 

CLEARANCE SALE 
ALL $7.98 RECORD 

$4.49! 

ALL $6.98RECORDS 
JUST$3.99 
322 Ranner PH 2741 
Hours: M-Th, 4-5; 6:30-8 
Alright Mardi!! Way to motivate 'em! 
An Tostal is almost hera! Anyone interested in joining the impersonation contest should contact K.B. at 4-1-4677 before Wednesday. 
Jules, Be sure to blow the pop stand (nickies) early or you'll be a hurtin' cowboy. Henrietta, Toots, and Raise 
Banker, 

Now that you are an RA I guess 2am or midnight will mean nothing in your life. Convenient? 
Admirer 

Presentation: 
Consciousness and the third nervous system -Scientific Research on the Transcendental Meditation Program. O'Shaughenessey Rm 108, 12:15, 7:30 pm, Wednesday April 26. 
Rocco-I won't tell anyone that it is your birthday, but have a happy one ! Love, Nancy 
Dear Palies, 
Since you are all so queer...... Mark-Type much? O'Leary-Borrow cars much? Shorty -lift cars much? Chris -disco much? Daryl -curly hair much? John-bigot much? ......uhm, I'm sure.... 
Love, the Mad Bolters 

I'm afraid that last one went entirely over my head ...... lt must've been very deep. 
Remember the Ugly Duckling that grew up to be a beautilul swan? Well, Otto never did. Vote him ugliest 
Photo Club Dunes Trip Sunday April 30. Chalet on the Lake Stevensville MI. Free for members. Call Bill Reifsteck, 1072 for 
answers.  
Vote for Alumni's faUMOC  vorite dog.  Otto for  
Volunteers  needed  to  take  kids  to  

Carnival Thursday evening . Call Matl at 1369 or Orest at 233-3718. 
EIJR~PE l"._' JJ. '-~"n'-nnJ 
tJ\,d n 12 ld("(: 
I !' '"' (800) 325-4867 
,1, ,, .n:·· • or <,f't> 'YOU• !•,IWr'· ~q·····,, 
@ Un;Yravel Charters ·~ 


the observer wednesday, April 26, 1978 
Two top teams upset 







Bookstore reaches 'Sweet Sixteen' 
Former Irish coach dies; succeeded Rockne in 1931 
CIDCAGO[AP)-Heartley "Hunk" George Halas of the Bears said, 
Anderson, former Notre Dame and "Whether at a collegiate or pro­
Chicago Bears coach, is dead at the fessional level, there never was a 
age of 79. · better line coach than Hunk 
Anderson died Monday of a Anderson. I'll miss him, as weiJ as 
respiratvry ailment after an ex­his legion of friends he made 
tended illness at his West Palm coaching in the NFL and at colleges 
Beach, Fla., home, where he had from Notre Dame to North Carolina 
moved from the Chicago area 11 State." 
years ago. 

Famed f .r his defensive football 
savvy, Anderson introduced such 
*Observer

nuances as the "red dog" anc:J "safety blitz." He began his football career early in the 1920's at Notre Dame, 

Sports
where he played on the line under 
the coaching of the legendary 
Knute Rockne. 

After a professional playing 
career with the Bears, Anderson Bookstore games 
succeeded Rockne, who was killed 
in 1931 in an airplane crash. 
continue today 
Anderson coached Notre Dame three years then turned to coaching in the National Football League. for 'Sweet 16' He served as co-coach of the Bears 
Bookstore games today are; atwith Luke Johnson for three World the Bookstore: 4:30-Tappa Kegga War II years and won the NFL Brus vs. Larry's Laundrymen,championship in 1943 by defeating 5: IS-Chumps Too vs. Green Pop·the Washington Redskins 41-21. 
corn, 6:20-Butcher Brothers vs.
Anderson retired from football in The Nutmeggers and Roland's19SI to devote full time to his job as Headless Thompson gunners vs.
an account executive for the Pro­TB Express I. 7:00-TILCS V vs.
duction Steel Co. based in Detroit. 
The Irish Guard and Leo's Last vs.
Services will be held Wednesday The PLO Bus Drivers; at Lyonsin West Palm Beach. Survivors Courts: 6:30-The Jackson Five vs.
include his wife, Maria; two TB Express IV and The Milkdudsdaughters and one son; 12 grand­vs. Strappamasquon and His Com­children and three great grand­bat Wombats.
children. 

grabbed 17 rebounds to lead Green 
Popcorn to a 21-12 breather against 
Peter and the Flying Wallendas. 
Steve Notaro added to the winning 
cause with five baskets, while Bill 
Mylar's five hoops and Bill 
Carson's four. were not enough. 
Larry's Laundrymen entered the 
"Sweet Sixteen" via a 21-19 win 
over Stevie Wonder and the Dead 
Eyes. ·Chris Fabian led the way 
with eight markers and ten 
rebounds and got some aid from 
Bob Kennedy's six point perfor­
mance. Steve Brown and Todd 
Sladek notched eight and four 
baskets respectively for the Dead 
Eyes. 

In another overtime game, PLO Bus Tours got by the Duke Street Kings 22-20. Bill Murphy and John Ryan did most of the damage with seven and five markers respective­ly. 
Milk Duds, an "Elite Eight" team last year, kept their winning ways by knocking off the Scream­ing Seals and the Flying Fish by a score of 21-14. Jim Martin contributed five baskets while Ted Moroney topped all scorers with nine hoops. 
The Irish Guards had little 
trouble beating Windex 21-10 to 
keep their championship hopes 
alive. Lucky Leo Latz and Dan 
Short each dropped in six hoops in 
the winning effort. 

In a third round game, Jackson 
Five put an end to Three Studs and 
Two Duds' season. Mark Norman 
and Jim Singer handled most of the 
scoring, with six and seven baskets 
respectively, as Tracy Jackson's 
squad won 21-13. 

Golfers closer to NCAA bid 
by Bob Hennekes were Tim Saurs, 151 (79-72), Tom Dame in both invitationals, is not in Sports Writer 
McCarthy, 1S4 (7S-79), Tim the same district as the Irish. So, 
Sacheck, 1S4 (80-74), John Lund-the district selection committee, 
Earlier Notre Dame golf coach gren, 1S4 (76-78), and Rich Knee, the Irish finishes in the Purdue and Noel O'Sullivan had commented 157 (79-78). Mid-American lnvitationals actual­that "outstandly high finishes are On Sunday, Notre Dame again ly appear to be 3rd and 2nd, required by the selection commit-had an excellent finish, this time in respectively. tee in order for Notre Dame to go to the Mid-American Invitational held Coach O'Sullivan feels very opti­the NCAA's." In golf action this in Oxford, Ohio. After the first mistic of Notre Dame's chances for past weekend, the Irish linksmen round of the 36 hole tournament, being a representative of the 4th must have performed with those the Irish golfers were in first place, district in the NCAA tournament. words of Coach O'Sullivan in mind. 7 strokes ahead of Eastern Kentuc-"They (the 4th district selection 
At the Purdue Invitational on ky. After 27, the Irish were still in committee) take the Mid-American Saturday, Notre Dame's golfers first place, but could not hold on to champ, the big Ten champ, and a finished 4th out of the 17 teams, capture the victory, as they major independent. Right now which included competition from finished 3rd with a team score of we're the best independent i...'l our the Big Ten and Mid-American 760 (373-387). Ahead of the Irish district. We're now in solid ­conferences. Notre Dame came in were repeats from Saturday's tour-position, but we still have to with a stroke total of 7S3 (379-374) nament, Eastern Kentucky (7S2) contend with the runner-up in the for the 36 hole event. Finishing and Miami (7S7). Mid-American and we have to ahead of the Irish were Miami of As if being runner-up medalist contend with Indiana, who beat us Ohio (739), Eastern Kentucky on Saturday were not enough, in the Kemper Invitational." (74S), and Purdue (746). Dave Knee again paced the Irish This weekend the Irish play the 
Leading the Irish golfers was with a 147 (74-73) to finish as 3rd 72-hole Northern Intercollegiate Dave Knee with rounds of 70 and medalist in the Oxford tournament. Invitational. Notre Dame's play at 
72. Dave's fine performa:tce was Following Dave were Sacheck, 1S2 the Northern could determine if the properly rewarded, as his 142 (73-79), Lundgren, IS3 (74-79), golfers will secure a post-season stroke total earned him the runner-McCarthy, 153 (7S-78), Saurs, ISS tournament bid from the selection up medalist trophy. (77-78), and Rich Knee, 1S9 committee. In the words of Coach 
The other Irish golfers which (77-82). O'Sullivan, "we have to have an contributed to the high Notre Dame One interesting note is that outstanding finish at the Northern finish in the Purdue Invitational Eastern Kentucky, who beat Notre Invitational and we're golden!~

Inexperience hurts tennis team 
by Mike Henry two-love b~t his OJ?~onent, Bob State, 6-3, at the Courtney Tennis Sports Writer Lear~a?, hit an exqUisite dro~ s?ot Center. Brian Hainline took a to tie It at two-two. Hamline thriller from the Spartan's Tighe 
Ralph Houk, manager of the proceeded to double fault and lost Keating, 1-6, 7-6, 7-S; Herb Hop­the next two points. wood crushed Franic Willard, 6-7,Detroit Tigers, has one of the best In other action, Carlton Harris 6-1, 6-0; and the Horan-Koval duoyoung teams in the major leagues. 
lost to Jim Buck 4-6. 6-1, 6-4; outvolleyed Willard and SteveHowever, as the season wears on, Western Michigan's Steve Winsor Klemm, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2.
Houk will experience his share of anguish due to the inexperience of 
out tobbed Herb Hopwood 6-1, 4-6, Game Irish efforts were given by his players. They will commit what 
6-2; captain Marty Horan was Harris in losing to Kevin McNulty, are known in sports as the errors of 
straight-setted by Mike Rose; Fritz S-7, 7-S, 6-2; Horan, who was Dwyer outlasted Tom Westphal defeated by Steve Klemm, 6-1, 6-4; enthusiasm. 
6-2, 2-6, 7-S; and Jim Panyard Westphal, conquered by MattA similar fate befalls Notre negated Mark Trueblood, 6·2, 6-4. Sandler, 6-3, 6-1; and Hoyer, whoDame tennis coach Tom Fallon, Notre Dame fans looking to the dropped a tough decision to Stevewhose squad boasts only one future had reason to cheer Marty Heitzman, 7-5, 7-S.
senior, Brian Hainline. Their Horan and Bob Koval's continued Doubles matches were droppedinexperience was evident against a excellence in doubles. The pair by Hainline and Harris, victims ofstrong Western Michigan squad rallied to top the Dwyer-Panyard the Spartans' Keating and McNul­yesterday, as the Irish netmen lost, combo, 3-6, 6·3, 6-3. For these ty, 6-3, 2-6, 6-4; and Hopwood and8-1. dropping four of the six singles two, it was their sixth victory in Hoyer, edged 7-6,. 7-5 by Sandlermatches in the final set. 
their last seven outings. and Heitzman.
Hainline's match against the Unfortunately, Hainline and The up-and-down racketmenBroncos was particularly frustra· Harris lost to the Broncos' Buck next host Kalamazoo today in ating for Coach Fallon. Fallon, who and Learman, 6-1, default; and make-up contest. Their seasonsaid afterward "our problem all Winsor-Scott Spoerl beat Herb concludes with Purdue this Sundayyear has been winning the third Hopwood and Mark Hoyer, 7-5, at 9:00a.m., Indiana at Blooming-set,'' was never more correct as Hainline lost the final set on a 
6-4. ton Tuesday, and DePaul at home Saturday afternoon the Irish next Wednesday. The Irish seasonnine-point tiebreaker. He jumped dropped a home match to Michigan mark stands at 11-13.
out in the extra game to lead Willie Fry was the leading scorer for TILCS V, as the Bookstore favorite advanced to the "Sweet Sixteen." [photo by john Calcutt] 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 

The Bookstore Basketball Tourn­
ament was narrowed to the "Sweet 
Sixteen" stage as the first two 
major upsets in competition oc­
curred. 

While many of yesterday's games were closely contested, none more so than the battle between T.B. Express III and virtually unknown Roland's Head­less Thompson Gunners. Express lll's Stan Wilcox's 12 basket, seven rebound performance was not enough to offset the balanced attack of the opposition as the Gunners edged by 25-23. 
Fred Beasley scored nine hoops while Bruce Martin added five to the winning cause. Dan Knott canned seven baskets in the losing effort. 
The first top ten team to exit was Linda Lovelace and the Gang, as they fell to a tough 300 Per Cent Club by a score of 21-1S. Jim Bennati, Tom Johnson, and Tim Healy provided the scoring punch for the winners, with six, five, and five baskets respectively, while Tim Foley and Rob Bush took charge underneath with ten and eight rebounds. Randy Haefner was the leading scorer for Linda Lovelace with nine points. 
Beers and Bowls Forever kept number one ranked TILCS V on the court longer than anyone expected in their 21-1S loss. The TILCS V were somewhat lackadaisical in their winning effort. Willie Fry muscled his way in for six baskets and eight rebounds, while Joe Montana and Mile Miller each added five points. Dave Batton cleaned the boards with 14 re­bounds. Mike Rolfs and Mike Sexton maaaged 6 and 4 scores respectively. 
Greg Knafelc led Strappamas­quon to a 21-16 drubbing of Feii ... Five. Knafelc found the net on nine of his fourteen shots while Kelly Tripuka was a little colder at six for sixteen from the floor. Pete Holohan added four markers and ten rebounds in the winning cause. Dave Hett and Dave Condeni dropped in eight and four baskets respectively. 
Number three ranked Tappa Kegga Brus relied on their board strength to make easy pickings of Karl Wallenda's Taxi Cab Service 21-11. Bill Laimbeer and Jim Fritsch combined for 12 baskets and 27 caroms to lead the way. Dave Lauer added five hoops for the winners while Frenchie Hess dropped in four points in Wallen­da's downfall. 
Rusty Lisch led an accurately shooting Leo's Last team to an easy 21-11 win over East Coast Monte­zumic Beast Band. Dana Snoap and Jeff Carpenter hit six and four baskets respectively for the win­ners, while Brian Boyle notched six baskets for the opposition. 
In one of the best games of the afternoon, number five ranked T.B. Express I defeated Easy Living Paint 21-1S by scoring the last five baskets of the game. As expected Express I grabbed an 11-3 lead behind the domination of Orlando Woolridge. But ELP responded to a pro-underdog crowd and closed the gap to 16-1S before running out of steam. Woolridge logged his typical eight basket (five slams), seven blocked shots, 16 rebound performance, while Jim Stone swept the boards with 17 caroms and six hoops of his own. Bill O'Rourke and Tim Ungs scored five baskets a piece and a lot of guts in staying in the game to the end. 
The combination of Bill Hanzlik Tom Sudkamp, and John Connor proved too much for the Gone Heads, as Chumps Too squeezed out a 21-19 win. Hanzlik found the range on eight of 13 shots with Sudkamp more accurate with seven connections in ten attempts. Bill Guappone, Dave Eveleigh and Tom Bruggman scored seven, five, and five baskets repectively for the losers. 
The Nutmeggers boasted a balanced attack in their 21-11 drubbing over the Nads. The scorebox read Mike Howard, six points, Mike Meyer, four, Mark Meyer, five and Tim Kardok, four for the number eight ranked team. Tad Baldwin canned five baskets for the Nads. 
Bruce Flowers dumped in ten of his 1S shots and Dave Huffman added four as the Butcher Brothers ran roughshod over Cool Russ and the Baby Boilers 21-S. 
Kevin Hawkins fired in eight baskets and Gilberto Salinas 




