
,_...-------------------~-~ -----­
Irish butcher Longhorns,-capture National Title N~otre Dame basketball and hockey· reviews 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, january 19, 1978 
Vol. XII, No. 64 
ND named nation's best 


Thursday, janaury 19, 1 
the observer 

,_·News Briefs _____ 
t=::::============================ World 
Jet hijacked to Cuba 
GUAYAQUIL, Ecuador •• Hijackers seized an Ecudorean jetliner with 67 persons aboard yesterday on a flight from Quito to Guayaquil, and after a refueling stop here ordered the pilot to fly_ to Cuba via Panama. The hijackers allowed 23 men, ten women and four children to leave the plane in Guayaquil in exchange for fuel. 
1:::::::::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=============:::::::::: N a tional 
Trolleys collide in Boston 
BOSTON •• Two underground trolley cars collided yesterday at the Arlington Street station of the Boston subway system, and a spokesman said, "We have injured. We don't know how many. One car hit another." 
-==-::=:::::===:=-:::::-::::::::================== Local 
Hulman honored 
INDIANAPOLIS •• The late Tony Hulman was honored yesterday by the Indiana House as a "distinguished businessman and outstanding civic leader", whose Indianapolis Motor Speedway brought international attention to the state. 
Gary doctor freed on bond 
HAMMOND, IN •• A Gary doctor charged with contracting for the murder of Gary Post-Tribune reporter Alan Doyle was free on bond yesterday. Williams met bail Tuesday on state charges of attempted murder and conspiracy to commit murder in an alleged plot to have Doyle killed because of a story the reporter wrote Jan. S about Williams being charged with possession of stolen property. 
Weather 

Cloudy today with a SO percent chance of snow developing. Higs in 
the low and mid-20s. Light snow tonight. Low in the upper teens 
and low 20s. Snow continuing tomorrow with highs in the low 20s. 
Dry Saturday with a chance of snow Sunday and Monday. Highs in 
the 20s. Lows in the single digits Saturday. Lows Sunday and 
Monday in the teens. 

~On Campus Today_------.~ 
4 p.m. lab seminar, "photoisomerization of linear polyenes related to vitamin a," dr. walter h. waddell, carnegie-mellon univ., sponsored by radiation lab, conf. rm. radiation lab. 
6 p.m. meeting, nd/smc council for the retarded, organiza­tional meeting, lib. aud. 
7:30 p.m. meeting, faculty senate, c.c.e. 
8 p.m. basketball, nd vs. villanova, home. 
*The Observer 

Night Editor: Steve Odland asst. Night Editor: Margi Brassil layout Staff: Marti Hogan Editorial layout: Maureen Flynn 
Sports layout: Paul Steven­son, Paul Mullaney Night Controller: Mardi Nevin day Editor: Cast of Thousands Copy Reader: Jack Pizzolato, Ann Gales Ad layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Ken McAlpine 




NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S THEATRE ANNOUNCES TRYOUTS FOR 
A TOUCH OF THE POET 
The Observer 11 publlslutd Mon­dey through Frtdey except dunng eum end vautlon periods. T.,e 
by Eugene 0'Neill 

Observer Is published by the 
Thurs. Jan 19th 7 :30 -0'Laughlin
students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions 
Callbacks, Fri. Jan 20th 7:30 Uttle Theatre 
mey be purdlesed tor 120 per yeer(11 0 per semester) trom The Observer, P.O. aox Q, Not,.. Deme, lndlene 4UU. Second dell poatqe peld, Not,.. Oeme, lndlene, 4UU. 
The Observer Is • member of the Allocletlld ~~~. All ,..pro­
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
duction r1ghta .,.. ,..aerved. 


Blood supply lines close as weather creates emergency~ 
(AP)-Blood supplies for much of The Community Blood Bank at canceled this week because of bad 
central and southern Indiana were Indianapolis, which serves 36 hos­weather. 
down sharply as cold, snowy wea­pitals in 22 counties, said its '"It's still below normal, but it is 
ther kept mobile units off the roads supplies were down SO percent, at a safe level," she said. "This is 
and potential donors indoors. with slightly more than 300 units on not to say we won't be in an 
A spokesman for the American the shelves yesterday morning. emergency state by Monday. We 
Red Cross at Louisville, Ky., which The center declared an emergency hope not, but the weather does 
serves hospitals across southern a week ago, when it ran down to affect us. We can't get the mobile 
Indiana, said elective surgery was just 20 units of fresh blood. units out and the donors can't come 
cancelled at many hospitals. Alice Jarrett, public relations in." 
"It's critically low," said Jim director of the Indianapolis center, Allen said the Red Cross' Louis­
Allen assistant administrator of the said the center needs 300 units of ville blood center had just 7S units 
blood program. "We're meeting blood a day to handle 180-300 on hand,. compared with a normal 
the emergency needs, and that's shipments a day, but three blood supply of 1S0-300 units. The 
about all we can do." draws outside the city have been supply in hospitals served by the 
center was down about SO percent, 
he said, because "we've missed all .Insurance discrimination 
blood runs this week." Many regional hospitals resorted to draw­ing blood from emergency donors,
defended during the 
Allen said. The center serves about SO hospitals, including about 20 across

sub-committee hearings 
Indiana, south of Bloomington. 

/ Allen said one mobile unit drew 
W ASIDNGTON (AP] · An insur­Jordan was on of several indus­about 100 units of blood in Colum­
ance industry spokesman conceded try witnesses who defended rate bus, Ind. Tuesday, about one third 
yesterday that some of the poorest classifications based on sex, age, of what the center normally draws 
people have to pay the highest occupation, marital status and per day. 
rates for automobile insurance, but geography as the Senate Judiciary "We should be able to have a 
he said it is unrealistic to ask subcommittee on citizens' rights normal day again tomorrow (Thurs­
companies to solve the problem by wound up two days of hearings. day)," he said. 
overcharging more prosperous J. Robert Hunter, acting federal At Evansville, which was buried 
persons. insurance administrator, argued under more than a foot of snow this 
"It is generally true that cars that consumers buying insurance weeks, the Ohio Valley Blood Bank garaged in major cities generate face ''a wholly discriminatory reported its supplies had dwindles the highest insurance losses and structure." dwindled the last two days to about are charged the highest auto 70 percent of normal. "That's still
Hunter said existing rate classi­

insurance rates," Donald L. adequate at this time," said James 
fications are "a signal to the 

Jordan, assistant vice president of Shaw, director of the center, which
consumer that he might better the Alliance of American Insurers, move his home, marry, get older or serves ten counties in Illinois, 
told a Senate subcommittee. change jobs." Indiana and Kentucky. 
"Unfortunately, the people who have to pay these high rates include some of the poorest as well as some of the more affluent segments of our national popula­tion." ­
Jordan said this creates a 
this fr;iday and every

dilemma for insurance companies, 
friday 5 :15 mass &

which are required by law to base 
supper

their rates on expected exposure to loss but "are subjected to enor­mous political and regulatory pressure to keep their rates at an affordable level, even if this means deliberately overcharging some groups." 
"The insurance industry alone cannot resolve this dilemma,'' he said. "It is totally unrealistic to expect private businesses, operat­ing in a competitive market, to deliberately overcharge some cus­tomers in order to be able to sell to other groups of consumers at below cost." 

---------------------------------~-~-----------­
Thursday,January 19, 1978 
the observer 

Sadat halts peace talks with Israel 
[AP] -Egyptian President Anwar Sadat broke off talks with Israel on Wednesday, called his foreign minister back to Cairo and accused the Israelis of deliberately blocking progress toward a Middle East Peace. 
The sudden move by the Egyp­tian leader cast a pall over the future of the negotiations, which began at Sadat's initiative in November. 
President Carter telephoned Sa­dat less than four hours after the breakdown in the talks and Sadat told him the negotiations could resume if Israel changed its posi­
f 
t 
t
t f t 
t
t t 
:t 
f 
& 
' 
& ·./. 
' 
f 
t 
t
f t 
' 
f 
t
t f 
& ' & 
f
t 
' 
' t & ' 
f 
tion. 
A statement read over Egyptian television said c~.rter asked if it would be possible to continue the talks for a day or two, apparently to give Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance a chance to patch things up. The statement s.aid Sadat told Carter: "Israel wants land and not peace, which malk:es the negotia­tions useless." 
An Israeli Cabinet statement charged that Egypt had "deluded ­itself' into thinking it could "force upon Israel" its terms for a Mideast settlement, and accused Egypt of ''astonishing rigidity'' in 
by Michael Kenahan boxes full of II>'s that were sitting 
unguarded in the middle area 
StaH Reporter inside the track. 
The witness stated that between 
An eyewitness reported seeing about 5:30 and 6:30p.m. he noticed "a few" students take fall semes-that "some students were going up ter student ID's from boxes left and looking through the boxes, behind at the ACC after registra-picking some ID's up and then tion on Tuesday afternoon. The taking them away. The boxes were witness, who requested to remain right out in the middle, no one anonymous, said that while he watching them or anything, like ran around the track he saw they had been left for the trash to several people rummage througlJ pick up,'' he added. 
*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame a~1d st. mary's 
NEWS NEWS 

NEWS 


Vance, who has been attempting to bridge the gaps between Israel and Egypt in private talks with the negotiators, told reporters he fioes not believe the talks have reached an end; . · . 
''I've been_ through a lot of international negotiations,,_ he said. "I've seen ilps and downs in thepast." _ __ 
The Egyptian-annojlnceinent caught Vance _by surprise;_ He was planning a din11er Wednesday night for Egyptian Foreign Minis-Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Sawy said Sadat ordered Kamel Begin; · · to return "immediately" because 
''The atmosphere which sur-''it became apparent from the rounded the meetings cif'the politi~ 'declarations of Israeli leaders that cal committee and the political Israel insists on presenting partial 
_ statements ~nd things like that had solutions that cannot lead to the _something to do with my r:ecall," establishm_ent of a just and lasting he said, _ _ .. _ _ peace." Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Informed of the Egyptian an­payan, &tanding by Kamel after .. nouncemeilt, Vance went to Ka­
· the meeting; said, "I'm very sorry _l_lbout President Sadat' s decision." _ Dayan said he was certain that'~ in a not long time we .wUl firid ways 
the bargaining. _ after a 90 rriinute meeting with charige its_ llegotiatirig position. 
r ------------•-------~--.·--'-_-_-_.-., But the statement said Carter 
-.,--_ · persua,ded Sadat to cancel a decree 
ter Mohammed Kamd. -. . . -. to resurrie negotiations." 
''It· will be for the president to The stat_ement on Egyptian tele­decided what and how· the next vision did not say whether. Carter stage will take place,'' Kam~i said -:had pt0mised to try to get Israel to 
Perhaps spring will be early this year and we will be seeing some green in a few weeks f months?f years? · · • [photo by Ken McAlpine] 
ordering that military talks be~ 
. 

--tween Egypt· in _Israel, set __ for ·t Thursqay in Caito, be suspended. 
· J-._ Sa:dathadplannedto cut off direct . t contact With the Israelis entiiely, ·--although there was specuhltio_ri_ · tol that effect after Kamel'.s recall. .• _-~-· ..·_ Thosetalks w1II teconvetie Sanir­·day, the statement said. . --·· . 
. a__ ·. ·-The_talks were "oontinulng. in a ' ViCious cycle," 'Egyptian Informil­~ :tion· Min.ister _Abdel_ M0neim el · · · . SllWJ said 'in announCing the break-.
_l· off on Cairo televiSion, · ·· 
' 

mel's hotel room, but their meeting ended abruptly when Vance was called out to answer a phone call from National Security Adviser ~bigniew Brezezinski in Washing­ton._ _ ­
-Sawy, his face grave as he read the recall statement over Egyptian televiSion, said Egypt's demands ­
for total Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands and self determination for the Palestinians -have not chariged. _ _ . 
Sawy s;tid Sadat has called an 
& . -.It was the firstoffic~al word that· emergency se~.sion ofthe People's 
Assembly, Egypt's parliament, for . Saturday to "place before the representatives · of the peqple all 
--• the facts of the situation. ' . lt was from that same rostrum tha:t-Sadat launched. the historic quest for peace that brought hilll to Jertisaletn Nov. 19 · for a first dramatic meeting With leaders of tl:te _n_ation his country fought in .· (our wars. 
.J. ··· · ·..· --. I 
.





tQ~atb~ mar vacation 
. -t.. by Marian Uli~y . 
j 
. _ senior Staff R«lpOrter . · ' · •. ANotre Dame 'stUdent, aprofes­

f 
.soi; arid three ahimrii died during · ·-the semester break. · :t Stephen F.-. Calonje, a: senkir 


t -
A pre-med major, was killed in a ·f traffic accident on Dec.· 29. He was ~studentleStde~ iti ~he Notre Dame 
Jazz bands and 10 hts fourth: year of 
• 
work with Ft. George Wiskitchen; .. assistant director cif bands. Cal­f onje, a drummer, played with the 

i. 
Notre Dame Jazz Combo which 


' ,won an '.'outstanding" .award at the _t ~C:olle'giate Jazz Festival two years 
· · 
-

ago and also with the larger Notre 
t 
f Dame Jazz Band. Prom New . O_rie_ans, LA, he was a resident .of Howard Hall. 6 . Christopher J. Fagan, associate f professor emeritus in economics,l died in his home on Jan. 12. Fagan 
was a Notre Dame faculty membert for 35 years. He received his & \:lac_helor: s degree from_. Providence ' CQllege tn 1928 and hts MA from
f. Catholic University in ·t929. He . • completed additional graduatet workat Catholic University in 1931 
· · ·a:nd $erv~-~ .~s a prefect Of. ~li~ciplitlet and a member of the Board of 
Student .Guidance. · ·One.-of thet fo~nders ofthe Notrebame'Credit 
·.· Union, _fagan was chairman of its credit commi~~e for .I nearly 35 years. In addttton, be l)elonged to th~ American Assoxiation of Col­lege · Professors and the Third Order of St. Dominic. _ John F. Healy, a Chicago travel consultant and 1930 alumnus, died in Augustana Hospital on J:ln. 16. He and his wife, Ramona Hayes Healy, supported a travel manage­ment program in Notre Dame's College of Business Administra­tion. In 1969, they donated $1 million to the University for the construction of the Hayes-Healy Center to be used for the new master's in business a\iministra­tion program. Healy an~ his wife have also contributed in excess of $1 million to the University of San Francisco, Loyola University and De Paul University for a women's residence hall, an eye cliriic and an athletic center, respectively. Two former members of the Notre Dame Ski Team, Stanley Ripcho and Gordon A. Wilson, died in aprivate airplane crash on Dec. 8 near Springfield, Mo. Ripcho, of qeveblnd, Oh., graduated in 1975. Wilson, from Salt Lake City, Ut. 
will receive his degree_ 
mously-this month. 
~ ~ .._.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .._.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~............ -,..-.,....----'--~-~~----._,.--'--'-------~-r-..r.__ 
Eyewitness repjorts stolen lD:'s 
The witness did not notify Secur­ 
ity nor was the Registrar's _Office  
notified. Richard J, Sullivan,  
University registrar, said that he  
was not aware of any)D's being  
reported stolen. Sullivan added  
that when .he asked his staf{ about  
the reported incident he received  
only "blank stares" from.them.  
Sullivan explained that the blue  
fall semester ID's which were  
collected at registration were to be  
put into the compressor at the ACC  
and destroyed. "And that was, to  
·our knowledge, being done when  
we brought all our'_ remaining  
materials back here to the office.  
The boxes were to be ·put through  
the compressor,'' Sullivan stated.  
The main fears of University  
officials are that the stolen. ID's  
might be used by people who are  
not mC'lmbers of the University  
community (the ID's are valid until  
May 21 of this year); or that  
University students who are minors  
might use stolen adult; ID cards· in  
order to gain entrance into area  
bars. Sullivan requested that any new information-a.bouat_' th_e sto_Ie_n _.  The bookstore has provided students with a variety of ways to h ff #1 t [ h t b K MeAl • ]s ow o our earn. en 

p .o o y~ pane
J»?.S..~-1>~-.hi~::PP!~~JF-)Il,Y..-...-.:,:,.,_k~.0::=::.~=~4:.::..:.=..:...:.:_::=:____.J 
------~------------------------. 
the observer ThursdayI January 19 I 1978nc:>-=-=-c~~=-=>=oC)I=-c::>CoC)I=-c:x=oC)I=-c::>CoC)I=-c::>CoC)I=<::>C~=<:~~=-c>=oc-c=-c:>-=-=-c=-c~ 
New hospital standards give more local control 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The-Car­

ter administration revised its pro­
posed national hospital standards 
yesterday to give local agencies, 
particularly in rural areas, more 
felxibility to decide how many 
hospital beds and what services are 
needed in a community. 
The revised proposal, which 

follows an outpouring of more than 
55,000 letters from congressmen 
and the public, represents a sig­
nificant pullback from "mandatory 
standatds" proposed last Septem­
ber when officials predicted they 
would eliminate one of every ten 
hospital beds in the country by 
1984. 
Formally called National Health Planning Guidelines, the proposed standards are the first attempt by the federal government to deter­mine an adequate level of hospital care in the United States. As written and now revised by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW), the guidelines sa11. there should be fewer than four ge.neral hospital beds for 1,000 population in a community and that the average bed should be occupied at least 80 percent of the time. 
There are now about 4.4 beds per l ,000 nationwide and a 75 percent occupancy rate. 
What makes the new proposal different from the old, as described by HEW Secretary Joseph A. Califano, Jr. at a news conference Wednesday, is that more room has been left for local health planning agencies to adjust the standards to their own needs. This is particu­larly true for rural areas, which raised the loudest objections to the September draft because of sug­gestions by HEW officials and local hospital administrators that num­erous rural hospitals and maternity wards would have to close. 
Califano made clear during ques­tioning that the guidelines give the federal government few weapons to use in trying to convince local agencies to go along with the federalstandardsand no authority to close hospitals or eliminate beds. 
One important change in the 

standards would ease an earlier 
requirement that metropolitan hos­
pitals deliver at least 2,000 babies a 
year in order to maintain an 
obstetrical service. The revised 
proposal would lower that to 1,500 
deliveries for hospitals equipped to 
deal with complications arising 
from pregnancy and childbirth and 
would exempt small, unsophistica­
ted obstetrical units that aren't 
equipped to deal with problem 
deliveries to seriously ill newborns. 
Rather than apply a specific 

standard to small unis, the revised 
guidelines encourage local agen­
cies to develop services on a 
regional basis to ensure that pa­
tients can get the special facilities 
when problems arise. 
Califano said because of the 

unusual public interest, the depart­
ment will accept further public 
comment on the issue and the 
revised proposal until Feb. 20 and 
will then publish final guidelines by 
March 6. 
Comments may be addressed to 

Office of Planning, Evaluation and 
Legislation, Health Resources Ad­
ministration, Center Building, 
Room 1022, 3700 East West High­
way, Hyattsville, Md. 20782. 
Dial differently from ND-SMC 
Telephone calls made from Notre Dame to St. Mary's will now require that 4-1 be dialed before the four-digit number. 
The dialing procedure was changed because Notre Dame will receive new telephone numbers that will begin with the numeral 4. 
Calls made from St. Mary's to Notre Dame will still follow the procedure of dialing 2 before the four-digit number. 
Pick-up your RA forms 
Tomorrow is the deadline for Building. picking up Resident Assistant ap­Green stated that applicants plication forms, according to Fr. must return the completed forms Gregory Green, assistant vice­along with three recommendations president for Student Affairs. to the Student Affairs Office no Application forms are available in later than Monday, Jan. 30. Final the Student Affairs Office, located selection of Resident Assistants in Room 315 of the Administration will be made by early April. 


ENGAGED? 
You can complete your Pre Cana (Catholic pre-marriage requirement) one of two ways through our office. 
1.) Retreats January 27 -28 February 24-25 
2.) Host Couple 
Register with us at least three months prior to the wedding. Program concludes on March 31. 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Memorial Library (283-6536 or 28:J-8832) 
;::;f);r,·~-------------­
.~·· 




Yes it's back to the books at ND but not before it's back to lines ... .will they never end? [photos by Ken McAlpine] 
i 
\ .\ \ 



Free jeans! Free tops! With no limit but the sky. Every one you buy, you get one free. The January Free Jeans .JUST.IEAN~ 
,
Sale. Offer expires Jan. 31 
SCOTTSDALE MALL South Bend 

SALE HOURS: WEEKDAYS 10 'TIL 9 PM SATURDAY 10 'TIL -5:30 SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 
ALL CARPET 

••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
*l PltiDEMOMIUM OF VALUE! 
*AREVELRY OF SAVING! 
Colossal lees! Titanic Cabin Crafts! The ware· house of these giants were glutted with remnants, load.d with roll-ends, pieces accu~•lated from their greatest •-•an ever, In such prclfuslon as to throttle their operations near-completely. They had to sell and seU quickly -and •that's when "CARPET-WAY" stepped ln. With a dn:anatlc, hard cash wipe-out oHer, we bought every single piece we could at bare rack-battom-and r~ow we pass 
the savings on to youl 
PERFECT FOR • • • 
BEDROOMS BATHROOMS KITCHENS BASEMENTS 
BUY NOW FOR ••• FL•OORS WJ,LLS STEPS DE:CKS 


Sorry No lay-o-wcry, No hold ordwl, No,.._ or mall onlen, Alllubject to prior IICI!e, All prlclntl Ia ­caah .tct carry baUI, AI ...,_.._. •• mlnlmunw. 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 PIECES! 
* PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shatl, twist, plush, loop, tweed, 
cut/uncut, mlltl-leveJ figured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these values on the spot 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
Moderate Charge
INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
IDEAl. FOR ••• TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS STATION WAGONS 
e:..... FINANCING . AVAILABLE 
-

PERFECT FOR • • 
DORMITORIES 
APARTMENTS STUDY ROOMS ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT USTm 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Geld Pink  ......, Nunet  c...... Apricot  JenquU Saute""'  Orten... ,......,....  
ACIUD lima  Sadella ........  A•ocado Ontoden  Aboln-A............  Gardenie flamI....  
Jado  A.....  lahama  liueMH  Pooltlde  
Coin  Cerioo  Paprlke  loybol  lattlaG...,  
ou...  Capper  So•lila  Hyacinth  Cloudy Jade  
Gr..n....  Nouvat Purpla  J-'luH H-y  Hollo-pe Cort..lod  froototl Coc.............  
Cannot  Altac  lron1o  l•yGreon  Grecian 011••  
Iron•• Whlto A......  Autumn..... Marine  M.....,ta Sadella lit.....  MDftdorln o....o...n ,..........  Mon,...Sonlf Muffin h .. White Grape  

AR,EA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY SToRE 


*The Observer 
an ·independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and .as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying. 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

·~---------------------------------------------~------------------------­
Thursday, january 19, 1978 
P.O. Box Q 
Automatic darkness in O'Shag 

Dear Editor: Over here in O'Shaughnessy Hall, this noble bastion of intel­ligence and wisdom, somebody has begun to replace classroom on-off light switches with automatic timers. The idea, I guess, is to save energy by making sure that the lights go out after classes are over, whether or not we absent­minded intellectuals remember to turn them off. Tqesdays and Thursdays, most arts-and-letters-type classes run for an hour and fifteen minutes. The new timers--at least the ones in the classrooms I use--can only be set for one hour, maximum. I think there may be a problem here. somewhere. Maybe someone with an engineering degree can figure it out. I'd try to figure it out myself, except all the lights just went out four-fifths of the way through my graduate seminar, and I can't see enough to do the figuring. 
Bob Kerby Associate Prof., History 

NCAAandKY: 
where were NO reps? 
Dear Editor: We are writing this letter to the 
editor and staff of The Observer because maybe you can get some answers to some questions that no 
one else seems able to, so far. 
We attended the Notre Dame _ Kentucky basketball game in louisville this past Dec. 3l and were embarrased by the lack of representation by the University of 
N I AI h h h
otre Dame t oug t ere were 
many Notre Dame fans who at­tended (scattered as they were throughout the "Neutral" court!), where were the cheerleaders? ­Dallas, of course; the mascot • again Dallas; the pep band, who students who were driving a Win­
ebago to Dallas to the Cotton Bowl, 
but they stopped off in Louisville 
for the basketball game on their 
way. If they could, why couldn't 
some cheerleaders have done the 
same thing? After being asked by 
scores of people "Did Notre Dame 
just have cheerleaders for foot­
ball?" or as someone said (tongue 
in cheek) only the nationally­
televised games like U.C.L.A., 
Marquette, etc. etc. at home, we 
finally gave up trying to excuse 
them. But then we were hit by 
something that does need an 
explanation -The NCAA Tourn­
ament! We turn to you to see if you 
can get an answer. 
Every single basketball team in the Regionals, the Semi-Finals, and the Finals of the ~CAA tournament has its cheerleaders there. With the most obvious exception of Notre Dame! Notre Dame, the school that is supposed to be "Class" all the way, one of the best colleges in the nation, so prestigious, etc. Yet they have no one representing them, but fans who are lucky enough to get tickets, and of course a Pure Class Basketball team, and Coaching Staff! 
We realize it is spring break at that time (usually) and the cheer­leaders have to be off to Florida, or someplace, anyplace, but the bas­ketball tournament! 
Question: Couldn't there be two separate cheerleading squads? One for football; and one for basketball? And shouldn't a requirement be that they have to represent the school and the stu­dent body at the NCAA Basketball Tournament? The team could sure use their support (as evidenced by some comments made after the Kentucky game). It's strange the 
cheerleaders you have now can always make the Bowl Game -be it Cotton, Sugar, or Orange -for the football team, but can't make a Basketball tournament that is just as important to that team (and by the way brings in some $$ also!). Admittedly the football team is the big money-maker at Notre Dame and supposedly the "glamour" . 
sport, but we and many, many
others feel the basketball team is 
just as good, and they certainly bring in their share of the money, tool We attend all home football games, and usually at least one 
knows? We met some Notre Dame · away game each season. Still we EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin New,.s Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansell 
attend all basketball games at home also, and when tickets are available to an out of town game also, and we do get tired of trying to excuse the lack of representation at such a "Class" University as Notre Dame is supposed to bel 
So the questions remain thus ­Can there be two cheerleading squads or not? And most Impor­tantly, can there be representation at the NCAA tournament? 
Mr. & Mrs. Hank Meers South Bend, Indiana 

Editor's Note: Cheerleader Co­Captain Sue Olin told The Observer yesterday that the cheerleaders were unable to attend the NCAA tournament last year and the recent Kentucky game because of a lack of funds. The Cheerleaders are partially funded by student activ­ities, but must earn over half their expenses themselves. Olin said that the squad's policy has always been to attend away football games and as many away basketball games as they can afford. Travel expenses to away football games are frequently subsidized by local 
·alumni groups, Olin said. The cheerleaders' recent trip to St. Bonaventure game was funded by an alumni group, she added. Olin emphasized that the squad's ab­sence from most away basketball games "is not for want of en­thusiasm.'' 
Commission thanked for fine film fest 
Dear Editor: We would like to take this opportunity to thank the Movie Commission of the Student Union for the great job they did last semester. The selection has been diverse and entertaining. This is a terrific service provided for the student body. It's great not having to go off campus to see good films. We hope that the same level of quality will be maintained in the coming semester. 
Gerry Kwiatkowski WURochl DrewPaluf Danny MiliCh 

(PNj~AtalafioN.5 JJ/ \?v.:t '(Du. :J3K.oKE M'i !fRou.D Ul. IIE.4Rf 

Above is a facsimile of a "letter" sent to The Observer by a philosophically-Inclined Longhorn fan In Marina Del Rey, Califor­nia. The original was drawn on newsprint in orange and green 
crayon. 

opinion~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Our Lady's new lights 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mitchell moore. 
I would like to offer belated but hearty congratulations to the Un­iversity of Notre Dame for the magnificent beams of light that each night bathe the golden dome of the administration building in such splendid brilliance. I am certain that this timeless symbol of the Notre Dame community, when seen in such dazzling splendor, brings tears of joy and nostalgia to many alumnus' eyes. 

Nevertheless, I feel that perhaps the security personnel responsible for this lighting display have erred somewhat in their decision to so brightly illumine our beloved dome. I feel this way primarily because of the fact that not a single instance of rape has occured on the top of the dome in several decades. And presently, I feel that the possibility of rape being attempted there is extremely remote. Passing 
by  the  Administration  building  
several  times  daily  in  my  four  
months  here  at  Notre  Dame,  I  
cannot  help  but  notice  that  the  

members of the ND-SMC com­munity do not congregate on the ramparts and the dome proper. Furthermore, the prospect of a potential rapist lurking in the shadows of the bastions beneath the dome appears unlikely. 
. If the lighting was concentrated here solely to prevent the figure of Our Blessed Mother atop the dome from being violated, I feel that such a precaution was unnecessary. An attempted rape of Our Lady of the Lake would be ineffectual at best, merely from the fact that she is well over 15 feet tall, while most rapists are under six feet six inches. 
In view of these elaborate safety precautions taken on behalf of the dome itself, I feel that perhaps other areas of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses deserve ad­equate protection from rapists also. 
Rumor has it that the possibility of a rape occurring on the road connecting the St. Mary's and Notre Dame campuses is several times greater than the chances of one occurring on the dome. 
Accordingly, I have devised a simple, inexpensive, and practical 

plan to remedy this situation.  My  
solution is this:  
1. Remove  four  of  the  six  

high-intensity lights which illum­inate the dome, leaving two other lights to shine on only the front of the dome. (Most alumni don't ever see the back of the administration building anyway.) 
2. Purchase 2000-3000 feet of 
extension cord. (Available at any hardware store for about $. 79/6­foot length. Total cost involved: $320/2400 feet. 

3.Connect the extension cord up to the four lights and place these lights at strategic points along the aforementioned road. The exten­sion cord could be strung from tree to tree, and each light could be suspended over the road by means of a stout cable bolted to a tree on each side of the road. This I believe, would keep installation costs well under $1000. 
The benefits would be incalc­ulable! The brilliant orange light that would flood the road would be a deterrent to even the most deviant rapist. And the monetary sacrifice would be minor in compar­ison with the annual budget of the University. 

All my life I have been told by alumni, counselors, and friends that Notre Dame has always dem­onstrated an unflagging respect for the welfare of its students. Four months ago, I arrived here with these words ringing in my ears; I have yet to be disillusioned. Accordingly, I understand that this "light priority" problem (no pun intended) which I have men­tioned above, is an unconscious oversight on the part of the University. Having been made aware of the problem, I am confident that the people respon­sible for this error in judgement will rectify the situation as soon as humanly possible. 

r-r--.,--------~ ----'·.-:-·-;::--.·. ~ ·-:---:--c..,....,...-­
-,
..... •. . ·.' .·:· 
. . . 
.~. 
. ·.. '·:·' . ... 

·..· ·~ 
.... : ·.. Thursday, January 19, 1978 the observer 
7 

New dining hall system Firelf'Jen miss their dogs t0 eli m in ate I()n·g n·11eS· ST. LOUIS . [APl -When St. They responded angrily that the spokesmen for those organizations 
Louis' fire ehief banished· dogs dogs gave them companionship said. by PhD Russo t~ dining bali will ~un out.of food from tfte city'!! ~l firehouses in the during lulls and served as watch-' By yesterday, the Globe-Dem-
Notre Dame students will soon for any given me;i.l.. · dead of winter, · he set firemen dogs when fire fighters were at ocnt reported, all the dogs had be usQ1g a ne~ system in the fwo Miiriy other scb<>Qls have em-snarli.ng wittl ~get and citizens fires. been taken in by families in the dining halls that will· not only ployed similin machines . for their howling in protest, By Wednes-The dog fight caught the fancy of area. preven~ misuse of jdimtificatl.on dining· facilitie&: M:a'rqtiefte Uni-· day, a shocked • J?Opulace had the local news media, and the Victor Maurer, field director of cards for dining purposes but Will V"er!!icy has . "nOt: ilnly prevented · adopted all the mascots. public became involved _ partie-the Human Society, said his office decrease the waiting time in food· misuse of identification cards .but ··. · Fire ChiefCharies R Kamprad . ularly afterit was reported Tuesday received more than 350 calls on Jines. . has saved money by using the evicted the dogs. last week, saying l that four new•born puppies had Tuesday alone. 
Robert Robinson,. senior fqod ·machbt¢s. · · · · he was enfOrcing a 30"year~O.ld city frozen to death after their mother Kamprad said he received about service director for the univerSity, Robinson was unsure ofthe cost · ordinance aga:iit.st mascots in the was turned out of Engine House 28. 70 calls himself -the irate kind ­stated that machines will now of the machmes. He stated tliat · firehouses. and threats on his life. Then he got check LD. cards, thus ·eliminating they should be in use s0<>n though. He also said he was worried that Most of the 20 to 30 firehouse himself an unlisted phone number. the waiting period bt food ·.Jine,s. Ptobl.ems wjth th~ hardware have atiimals ung~~ . ·might delay mascots are a far cry from the Even now, though, the issue Robinson said that the new rna-kept. them ft:om being used already. firemen's respo~se to calls. · traditional pure bred Dalmatian, does not seem dead. chines will not eliminate tne need . When an J.D. card is. inserted in And, he said, the dogs could but that seemed to make little Alderman Vincent C. Schoemehl 
e~pose the citY to law suits .should difference. says he will introduce a. resolution they bite soni~ne; Hundreds called the fire depart-at Friday's aldermanic session · But the. firemen were having ment, the Humane Society of asking Kamprad not to enforce the none of it.·· Missouri and the newspapers, eviction order. 
Tub.es Qf ra-dium located in junk 
MERIDIAN• Miss. (h)-Eight said. "Our people assume that the on;" said state health officer Alton stainless steel tubes holding dan-needles inadvertently got into the Cobb. "That's simply not true." gerous doses of radioactive radium stuff that was sold to the junk Sources who asked not to be Were found amid . the. debris in a company." identified had said late Tuesday junkya!d yesterday, six days _after Hospital administrator Chad that Meridi~n authori~es and. state they disappeared from a hospital. Morgan said earlier that authorities health offic1als had w1thheld mfor­
. A fe~·hours earlier, state offi-had not "left anything unturned ~ation ab?ut ~he missing radioac­clals sa1d they had been unable to and as far as can be determined, t1Ve mater1al smce last Thursday. track ~ow~ t~e tu~es, each the person or persons removing ~ut State Sen. S~n~y _Ste_ckler, of wh1ch ts JUst mches long and this material have either secreted it chamnan of the M1ss1sslpp1 Ra-hol~s a ten tnillhneter long piece of or disposed of it. • • d~ation Advisory Council, also de­radmm. M "d M "d" th . med any coverup. 
They denied there had been an f organ s~ . . en Ian/~ ~~h Steckler said that he was infor­for student checkers because they the new machine, it wiil give one. 0 . 
attempt to keep news of the tes,. alrea P yslct!fiansd an ea med of the missing radium Tues-will be retained to check the four responses: "valid;" ''reinsert . . d" · fr th bl" offic1a s were no 1 e as soon as d d . il t" d t
mtssmg r:a tum · om· e pu. 1c. th d" d ay unng a counc mee mg an apictures on the cards. This, he said card,'' ·''not valid"· and "secorid ·. 
1
Ed. Fuente, director of the Mis-e oss was tscovere · the time felt there was no need for will help prevent misuse of !.D.'s, use not valid.'' This will preyent sissippi Board of Health's Radio-Radium is used in the treatment a public statement because appro­since workers were previously un-. the bearer from entering· the dinin logical Health division, and an of some cancers, but. can be .priate steps had been taken toable to check both pictures and hall for the second time in 'iat · assistant found the radium at the dangerous when not controlled. locate the material.
meal numbers. meal period. · St. LOuis Junk Co., according to The tubes, or needles, can be Steckler said his council acknow-Robinson added that the goals According to Rolbinson, a letter board spokesman Sam Mabry. opened so that a _sm~ll hoi~ p~rmits Iedged that health officials hadfor Saga Food Service include to .the students will be sent out · "All of the needles are now ecape of the radmm s radiation. taken appropriate action to insureplanning the food supply with the explaining the rules for the use of 
achines, making it less likely that . the machines .. accmitite!l for/' Mabry said. "I don't see how anyone can say the safety of the hospital patients Nine of the containers were there has been a coverup going and the community. 
discovered missing from a lockedCabot Corporation estabUshes .room at Jeff Anderson Memorial Hospital on Thursday. One was 
Important Notice: 
guest professorship at ND quickly. discovered in the hospital 
The Cabot Corporation of Senior Engineers to interact in the parking lot. 
The Sunday Mass 
Boston, MA, has established the classroom and laboratory · with The· others were found after Cabot Guest Professorship in the . undergraduate engine.ering .·stu-. officials. remembered that "The 
times at Sacred Heart Church will 
Department of Metallurgical Engi" dents. · The initial period of the hospital commonly sells scrap neering and Materials Science at professorship is one semester, metal to the company and that the 
remain the same this semester:
Notre Dame. althotJgh its duratiop may be room where the needles had been The position will allow practicing extended to two yt:ars. stored was very junky,"Mabry 
9:30am, 10:45 am, and 12:15. 

WHERE WILl. YOU GET THE MC)NEY 
FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
Four years of medical school is goirlg to cost a bundle. Where will it come from? A lot of students drop out of medical school because the money simply runs out. Will this happen to you? 
The U. S. Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program could be your answer. The Navy pays full tuition, books and all fees. Then gives you $400 a month to help with personal expenses while you are in school. And it's all tax free. 
This is a scholarship program that is based entirely upon scholastic standing and not personal need. Ther1e is a lot here for you, so for more information call (312) 657-2169, or write: 
Medical Progr;ams Officer 
Bldg. 41, N.A.S. 
Glenview, Ill. 60026 
NAVY MEDIC:AL CORPS. AS FAR AS YOIUR AMBITION AND ABILITIES ¥tiLL TAKE YOU. 
The times will not change as had previously been announced. 
() 
)> 
r :IJ 
m 
< 
c 
r

Tech Interview 1:00, Auditions 2:00 
$: 

m Indianapolis Area -Tues., Jan. 24 r 
0 

Stouffer's Indianapolis Inn 0 2820 N. Meridian-Indianapolis :IJ 
i )>

Louisville Area -Wed., Jan. 25 Ramada Inn (Bluegrass Convention Center) 1-64/Hurstbourne Lane -Louisville 
Lexington Area -Thurs., Jan. 26 
<

Hilton Inn )> 1-75/Newton Pike-Lexington 
c 
0

Cincinnati Area • Fri., Jan. 27 m Hilton Inn s 
r

1-275/U.S. 42 -Sharonville Columbus Area -Sat., Jan. 28 Sheraton Motor Inn-North 1-71/Rt. 161 -Columbus 
r 
3:

Also at Cedar Point )> Sat.,Feb.4;Sat.,Feb. 11 G) 
0

Minimum Age 18 
C/) 
J:

FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES AND FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT DEPT. CEDAR POINT. INC. 
f
()

SANDUSKY. OHIO 44870 0 3: 
0 

~--------------------------·~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, january 19, 1978

r 8 the obsener 
Inaugural trust fund 
create~from excess $ 
WASIDNGTON [API • Future presidents, Republicans as well as Democrats, can have bigger and better inaugurations because of a $700,000 trust fund announced Wednesday by President Carter's 1977 inaugural committee. 
Bardyl L. Tirana, co-chairman of the Carter committee, told re­porters at the White House that the new "Jimmy Carter Inaugural Trust" should provide at least $140.000 to $150,000 every four years to help finance all future presidential oath-taking celebra­tions. 
Tirana said creation of the trust was made possible because the Carter inaugural collected $820,000 

Heisler to present voice recital 
Soprano Catherine Heisler will present her senior voice recital in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's on Sunday at 8 p.m. 
Heisler. from Houston, Texas, will be accompanied by Ann Addis, pianist and harpsichordist. Her program will include songs of Handel. Rossini. Wolf. Schubert, Debussy and Britten. Also appear­ing in the program will be Rachel Ro\_VIand, violinist. Joan McCarthy, 

. <_:ellist; and Susan Tully. clarinetist. Heisler's recital is presented in partial fulfillment for a bachelor of music in applied voice. She is a student of Susan Stevens, chair­man of the music department. The recital is open to the public without charge. 
Welcome to Windom's world 

William Windom will appear at Washington Hall next Tuesday at 8 
p.m. Windom, who won an Emmy for his role on NBC's My World•• and Welcome to It. will perform selections from James Thurber's reports, stories and fables. 
Admission to the Student Union­sponsored performance is $1 at the door. 
more than it spent. 
In addition to putting at least $700,000 into the trust, the Carter committee will make an outright, unrestricted gift of $100,000 to whatever committee handles the presidential inaugural in 1981. 
Tirana said the gift for 1981 carries forward a recent tradition, noting that the Carter committee was given $96,000 ·from surplus funds generated by the 1973 in­augural of former Republican Pres­ident Richard M. Nixon. 
There will be strings tied to the larger amount that will be gener­ated by the Carter trust. The money can be spent only for inaugural events and failities avail­able to the general public. 
There can be no spending, for example on invitational balls that generally attract only-the party faithful and partisan "fat cats." 
Tirana suggested trust funds could be used for free concerts and dances, for free transportation for inaugural crowds, and to pay for keeping local museums open be­yond normal hours -all activities that were sponsored last year by 
Carter's inaugural committee.· 
The trust, he said, will guarantee that "for all times in the future, inaugurations can be public cele­brations in the most nonpartisan character possible." 
Under the terms of the trust the fund will be administered as a non-profit, nonpartisan corpora­tion. The trustees hardly have a non-partisan complexion, however. 
They include the president's son, Chip, and three others associated with the Carter campaign and administration. They are Tirana, 
A.D. Frazier, a vice president of Atlanta's Citizens and Southern National Bank and onetime aide to resigned budget chief Bert Lance; and David S. Smoak, vice president of the Export-Import Bank and comptroller of Carter's inaugural committee. 
The corporate trustee is the Fulton National Bank of Atlanta whose president, Gordon Jones, was a co-chairman of the 1977 inaugural committee. 


MEN'S HAIR STYLING 
By Ktrt. .£01t'UJ 
We are pleased to announce Mr. Larry has JOined the staff of 
·1

The Knights. Expertly o( trained tn men's hair styling, he mvites all fnends & customers to 
$100 
OFF 

ANY SERVICE 
(WITH THIS AD) WITH MR. LARRY ONLY 
Tke KHigld'G 
54533 Terrace Lane 
272-8471 or 
Lower Level Tues. & Wed. 
277-1691 
Thurs. & Fri. Sat. 
..
.. 

-------------------------------------~ 

After travelling many a mile these tireless fans helped boost ND to sweet .victory over UT Longhorns. [photo by Doug Christian] 
Cleary joins Board of Trustees 
Catherine B. Cleary, chairman ot religious community to a group of 1969. president and chief executive thL' board and chief executive predominantly lay trustees, headed officer in 1970 and assumed her ofticer of the First Wisconsin Trust · by Edmund A. Stephan, a Chicago ct::-rent position in 1976. Her name Company in Milwaukee, has been attorney. She is the fourth woman is invariably found on lists of the elected to the University's Board of currently holding a position on the most influential women in Amer-Trastees. Board. ican society. 
A 1937 graduate of the Univer-She has been active in a variety 
Cleary, who received an honor­sity of Chicago who received her of civic, educational and cultural ar': doctorate in law from Notre law degree in 1943 from the organizations, ani! is a director or Dame last May, becomes the 41st University of Wisconsin, Cleary /the American Telephone and Tele­m.'mber of Notre Dame's Board, practiced law for four years before_: graph Company; the General Mot­which was created in 1967 when joining the First Wisconsin Trusr ors Corporation; Kraft, Inc.; the governance of the University was Company in 1947. She was made~ Kohler Co. and Northwestern Mut­transferred from the Holy Cross vice president in 1954, president i~ ual Life Insurance Company. 
Who are 
you, telling us how 
to run our 
business? 
It takes a lot of confidence to come fresh out of school and begin telling us how to do things. 
On the other ·hand, it takes an un­usual company to provide the kind of environment where that can happen, but that is exactly the environment you'll find at Scott Paper. 
We constantly search for people who have the ability to respond to chal­lenge and think for themselves, those with the initiative and desire to seek al­ternatives, the skill and courage to con­vince others that there are better ways and who aren't afraid to express their ideas. 
At Scott, we admire an aggressive stance because we are an aggressive company. You can make your own op­portunities with us ... and we'll prove it. 
Contact your placement office for information. 
SCOII 
an equal opportunity employer, m/f 

died in 1976. 
Carmichael was a trustee of Notre Dame and served as national chairman of its $52 million development campaign which ended in 1972. He held a Ph.D. in public law and government from Columbia University and served four years as president of Converse College, Spartanburg, SC. 
"The Carmichael Chair will be a lasting tribute to a man who~ contributions to Notre Dame, the surroundmg community and the state were immense during his lifetime," commented Fr. Theodore M. ( Hesburgh, University president. 
Radin is the former Ernestine M. Morris, 
daughter of Ernest M. Morris. Her father
received a law degree from Notre Dame in 1906 and later founded Associated Investment Company. In 1952, Morris and his wife, Ella, were the benefactors of the Morris Inn. 
Shortly after the death of her husband, Radin assumed his position as chairman of the Board of FBT Bancorp, the parent corporation for South Bend's First Bank and Trust Company. 
She also was elected to Notre Dame's Board of trustees and is co-chairman of •the University's current fund-raising program. "The Campaign for Notre Dame," which seeks $130 million, most of it in permanent 
ondowmont. ShocUTiod Robort L. Radin, a 
WASHI.~GTON (AP)-President Carter ha~ chosen U.S. Circuit Judge William H. Webster to be the next FBI director, administra­tion sources said last night. 
Webster, 53, of St. Lo~>is won a strong recommendation from At­torney General Griffin Bell and Carter agreed with Bell's choice, 
f I 
Chair set up for trustee 
A million dollar gift to establish a chair in senior vice president of Paine, Webber, the memory of her late husband was Jackson and Curtis in Chicago, last July. announced today by Mrs. Robert L. Radin, a Radin's association with Notre Dame South Bend bank holding company executive. back ·to that of her father, and it 
The endowed professorship will be named when her late husband was ""'nnint••t'l the Oliver C. Carmichael, Jr., Chair in University's Lay Board of Trustees in Government and International' Studies in She suceeded her mother as head honor of the chairman of the board of Women's Advisory Council in 1968 and Associates Corporation of North America, who the Advisory Council for the College intelligent, fair-minded and witty. They said he plays an intense game
Mardi Gras cons1truction to start 
a.m. followed immediately by the commencement of construction in Stepan Center. 
This year's Mardi Gras theme 
will be Expo ND. The annual 
· carnival, sponsored by the Notre Dame Charities, will be designed as a replica of the 1965 New York World's Fair. Mardi Gras will 
and Letters when the University coeducatioiilal on the undergraduate level 1972. Her own education was at W..nJ'II''·':'''"'':?: Belmont School in Nashville, College, Briarcliff Manor, NY and Mary's College. 
Active in civic affairs, Radin is a member 011 }'>iii the Board of Governors and Committee of the United Way of trustee of both Converse College and Stanley Clark School, having served president of the board of the latter for years;' chairman of the Governor's Committee on Title XX; a Chamber o:f Commerce of South uo;;uu··LnJ:>JJIA"Jl:,,,."', 
waka and the Indiana Forum, Inc. She is ~····••••,••,••• ;•••••,················
past president of the Urban ,Coalition of St. · Joseph County. 
As co-chairman of Notre Dame's campaign, Radin has traveled speaking to small groups of potential tors at University functions in major from coast to coast. 

In a rec(mt report, she and fellow trustee John T. T. Ryan, chairman of the drive reported that 62 percent ofthe goal -or $80 million-ha.d been committed to the since its launching last April. The Chair is the 20th endowed professorship set up at the University since the carnp1ugn1• : > 
•ta<tod. 
__j 

Carter chooses judge as next directQr of FBI 
!e••••••••••••••••••••••••••o•••••••••••••••' 
the sources said. The White House is expected to make the formal announcement today. 
Webster must win Senate confir­mation before taking over the FBI from Director Clare:11ce M. Kelley, who is sC:teduled to retire Feb. 15. The choice of the Missouri judge 
consist of 21 booths divided into begins this Saturday with a meet­three sections: , an international ing of all booth chairmen at 10:30 village, a carnival and corporate Construction for Mardi Gras '78 
exhibitions. Exhibits such as a 
· Swiss. Cuckoo Clock, a Tunnel of Love and an IBM computer will be lolcated in the respective sections. According to Ma1rdi Gras Chair­man Dan Haugh, "This year's Mardi Gras will have a true carnival atmosphere in keeping . with the occasion. Expo ND will 

One way may be to live within the Augustinian Ft!'lltemlty. When you come to live with us, you obutrve and participate In our community life for several years before making a final commitment. You observe that '" are a religious community following the charlsm of St. Augustine and "that together and with one heart In ~rotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor In the service of th•t people of God." We serve In colleges, high schools, IJH!rlshes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. VIllanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
VIllanova, PA 19085 (215) 525-5612 

Nam•·------------------------------------~ 
Addre••------------------------------­
City_____________State:________-"'-Zip_____ 
School or Occ._______________,..,ge,________ Phone.__________________ 
and former federalprosecutor ends continues major changes in its the administration's year long operations and recovers from dis-search for an FBI chief willing to closures of past wrong doing. serve a 10 year term, the maximum In St. Louis, Webster said he had permitted by law. not been notified of the appoint­
ment. "I only know what I've 
Bell had insisted on a 10 year heard over the radio. I plan to go to commitment to provide the bureau work tomorrow," he said. with continuity in leadership as it Webster's. friends and profes­
sional ccolleagues described him as 
of tennis and that he's more include actual carnival-type aftrac-moderate in his politics and philo­tions and new card games as well sophy than his short haircut and as the regular games of chance." conservative style of dress would 
Haugh encouraged students suggest. interested in working on Mardi A Republican, Webster dabbled Gras to either contact their hall in Missouri party politics several booth chairman or to come to years ago, but has refrained from Stepan Center Saturday morning. political activities since he was Booth construction will continue appointed a federal district judge in through Feb. 1. Teh carnival will 1971 by former President Richard open Friday evening, Feb. 3 and M. Nixon. Two years later, Nixon close ;)aturday, Feb. 11. promoted him to the 8th Circuit 
• Cl d
'~' Summer Jobs at PANDORA'S •
• aSSI le 
•• Ads 
• • • e 

NOTICES e 
• 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, e Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM 

• 
Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per pagemin:mum. Call 232-Q898 "When you

• 
wantthe Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. • 

• 
Organizational meeting for all new and 

• old Logan volunteers. Come to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retard­

• 
ed's Organizational Meeting and find out 

• 
what Logan Center is all about and wait 

• 
till you hear what we've got planned for 

• 
this semester. The meeting will be held 

• 
in the Library Audltor.ium tonight Janu­

• 
ary 19th at 6 p.m. till 7:30 p.m. Any questions call Art Koebel 287-7509 or 

• 
Jeanne Conboy 284-4391. • 

• 
Sat. Rec. is back! Saturday Hecreatron e happens every Saturday morning 9a.m. ­


•~~~~ ~tih;t f~gp~~l Cs~~~~·m~ne ~~~~ 
• 
eager to get started and the first Sat. Rec. • of 1978 will be this Sat. January 21, 9 

• 
a.m. till11:30 a.m. So come and help the' Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the 

• 
Retarded start the new year off rigl1t this 

• 
Saturday morning. Any comments or e questions call Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or e Art Koebel 287-7509. 


Guaranteed or money back. Nations largest directory. Minimum fifty employ­ers per state. Includes Master appllca­
tion. Only $3. Sumchoice Box 645, State College, PA 16801. 
WANTED 

Need roommate to share apartment at Crestwood second semester (2 miles from campus) call Vince at 288-1259 between 11 p.m. and midnight. 
Wanted: GA or student B-ball tix for UCLA. Cali Chuck 277-1874. 
Needed: Apartment mate, own bedroom, one and a half miles campus. Mike 272-4781. 
Need 1or 2UCLA tix. Student or GA $$$ Jim 287-5215. 
Need tickets for UCLA call Jim 8708. 
Found: In front of Badin Hall, Student basketball ticket. Must identify. Call 6991. 
FOR SALE 

BIC 960 turntable 8 mos. old, still under warranty, good price;cali Bob at 1612. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC· TURES NOW AV.AILABLE CALL 8982. 
-
I 
I 
Court of Appeals which ' andles 
cases from several midwestern 
states. 

The president and Lc:ll chose 
Webster over U.S. District Judge 
Frank McGarr of Chicago. Bell had narrowed the field to those two ,after Carter's first nominee, U.S. 
District Judge Frank Johnson of 
Montgomery, Ala. bowed out last 
Novemb1 ·r because of continuing 
health problems. 
Kelly, who had been scheduled 
to retire the $57,000 a year post at 
the first of the year, agreed to stay 
on until Feb. 15 after Johnson 
withdrew. 
In nearly a decade of public life, 
Webster has attracted little criti­
cism. Some civil rights lawyers 
suggest that if there is a weakness 
in his record, it is in that field. But 
others say they found Webster fair 
even when they lost cases in his 
courtroom. 
Buy used paperbacks
Books. 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 Open 11-6 every day. Special three day • order service. • 
acct 371, am st. 353, 450, 458, 471, 473, • 475, 476, theo 101, 156, 180, 232, 247, e 301' 326, 341' 352, 356, 412, 434, 450, • 200, 505, 550; eng: 109, 180 186, 303, • 307, 310, 311, 322, 326, 330, 3548, 369,
376, 377, 382, 385, 386, 390A, 3908, e 3928, 414, 420, 425, 486, 674B, 507, e 508B, 556, 6548; econ: 180, 227, 421, e 416; ps~ch: 180, 211, 341; soc: 109, 122, • 332; phrl: 101, 180, 201, 221, 245, 275, • 276, 302, 316, 345, 351, 405, 414; g.p.:180, 191, 242, 244, 281, 340, 346, 382, • 446, 462, 482; md. lang: 112, 180, 190e 304, 422, 455, russ. civ.; govt: 180, 340, e 342, 404, 415, 451, 473, 482, 483; hist: • 109 112 114 116 180 324 345 351
406: 426: 454,' 460, '478, 634. '  '  '•  
•  
e  
PERSONALS  •  
•  
Dear Observer Staff:  

Welcome back, Happy Now Year and• warm thanks to all of you for tho nice• gifts, phone calls and cards I received • during tho Christmas Holidays. e 
"MOM" • 

Looking for student to share a Hickory • Village Apt. for $90 per month. cane 272-6517. • 
':ONGRATS TO MARTI. THE PROOF·. HAS ARRIVED. 
------------• e e 

10 the observer Thursday, January 19, 1978 
Homecoming long awaited by Irish 
by Gregory Solman  INDIANA 67, NOTRE DAME, 66  
Sports Writer  
On December 14, the Irish took  
Tuesday night, it mattered little  on  an  inspired  Indiana  team  at  
that  Manhattan College  was  nei­ Bloomington, and fell to the Hoo­ 
ther Kentucky,  nor San Francisco  siers  67-66.  Indiana  knew  that  
nor even Indiana.  The game was  defeating  hyped-up  Notre  Dame  
not  particularly  exciting.  The  would give them needed recogni­ 
vacation  blues  were  behind  the  tion in the polls.  
team.  The  score  was  academic,  "This is definitely a big lift to the  
and  the  win,  an  espected  one.  Indiana program," commented  
What mattered was that the Irish  Coach  Phelps  after  the  game,  
were  back  in  South  Bend,  and  ''They showed a  lot of poise and  
Digg~r  Phelps. substituting twen­ confidence.''  
ty four times throughout the game,  "That's the way college basket­ 
made sure that each player on his  ball is this year.  Every game you  
bench was made well aware of that  play,  you  come  against  someone  
fact.  who plays with intensity."  
Dave  Batton celebrated with  24  Playing with the most intensity  
points  and  13  rebounds.  Rich  for the Hoosiers was Wayne Rad­ 
Branning rejoiced with 16 points.  ford,  who  collected  clutch  free  
Jeff Carpenter, stepping in for the  throws in the final seconds dwindl­ 
injured "Duck" Williams, comme­ ing the Irish hopes to a prayer by  
morated  the  occasion  with  nine  Kelley Tripuka at the buzzer.  
assists--a team high this season.  Said  Hoosier  Coach  Bobby  
With every lofty jump-shot, with each blocked shot, with every  Knight of Radford, "I don't think I've ever been prouder of a player.  
crowd-pleasing  slam-dunk,  the  
Irish seemed to be sounding their approval heralding their return to  NOTRE DAME 108, ST. JOSEPH'S 72  ~r1o,;.  
this Emeraldgreen City with a Dorothy-like chorus of "There's no place like home." The final score was 81-64. The Jaspers of Manhattan ac­tually had a 29-26 lead when Jo-Jo Walter's running one-bander con­nected from fifteen feet, with four minutes left in the first half. Irish Freshman Tracy Jackson brought the Irish right back, however, hitting on a jumer from the right corner and dunking a Don Williams pass, for the lead the Irish never lost. "It's good to be back home, real  The Irish received an early Christmas present on December 23, when they romped past hapless St. Joseph's, 108-72. Dave Batton collected nineteen points, Don Williams had eight­een, and Orlando Woolridge had sixteen. Rich Branning, Gil Salinas and Kelly Tripucka also scored in double figures, as St. Joseph's came all undone and unwrapped, a welcome gift. KENTUCKY 73, NOTRE DAME 68 It is not often that Notre Dame loses the big ones, the ones that  The Irish experienced a long and tiring Christmas vacation on the road. After defeating Manhattan Tuesday night, the Notre Dame cagers await another home clash tonight against Villanova. [photo by John Calcutt] tucky proved that it deserved to be was Bill Cartwright, whose arm ium, 79-78. number one. miraculously healed, enabling him Rich Branning, before fouling­Kelly Tripucka's fifteen points to lead the Dons to the grudge­out midway through the second were a bright spot for the Irish, the match victory, 79-70. half,. found his outside shot and Freshman proving that he could marked for sixteen points. Bill· A poor first half shooting perfor­produce in the big game. "Duck" Laimbeer had 12 points for the Irishmance by the Irish, coupled with aWilliams docketted 12, Bill Laim­and 11 rebounds, just one behindsecond half San Francisco spurtbeer had 10, and Rich Branning Batton who led the Irish in that statwhich saw the Dons outscore thehad 11 for the losing effort. as well as scoring.Irish 23-11, led to the Irish demise. Macy's eight-straight points With six minutes left, St. Bona­sparked the Kentucky victory, after Wynford Baynes followed Cart­venture scored nine unanswered Notre Dame had comeback midway wright in scoring with 19 points. points, before two consecutive through the second half to take the Hardy and Jemison both had 14. jumpers by Batton padded the Irish lead. For the Irish, "Duck" Williams lead. Tenaciously, the Bonnies  
good," sounded Irish Coach Digger Phelps, "I think we got a lot accomplished by getting our depth  really count, but they lost this one. ..on tlle scoreboard, at least. Perhaps it was that the Notre  SAN FRANCISCO 79 NOTRE DAME 70  led the attack Tripucka boxed Flowers had 10.  with 17, Kelly 11 and Bruce  bounced back with a Hagan eight foot jumper, making the score 79-78, but time and luck ran out for  
involved.  Some  players  haven't  Dame  scouting  staff had  under­ Notre Dame's star-crossed road  St. Bonaventure.  Glenn Hagan led  
been coming through so we have to get mileage out of the other  rated Kyle Macy, who ended up with 18 points. Perhaps it was  trip continued in Oakland Ala­meda Coliseum, where the Irish  NOTRE DAME 79  the Bonnies with 24. Commented Irish  guard  Rich  
players."  because  Kentucky  only  missed  met a talented San Francisco team  ST.BONAVENTURE78  Branning on  the poor luck on the  
It was a needed win for the Irish, who since their December 14loss to Indiana, had defeated St. Josephs', lost to Kentucky and San Francisco and eeked out a win over St. Bonaventure.  three foul shots. Perhaps it was the ten day layoff or the so-called neutral court. Whatever the case, Notre Dame left Freedom Hall with a higher shooting percentage from the field--and a five point loss.Ken­ eager to avenge a 93-82 streak­breaking loss they suffered one year ago. Unlike the previous year, how­ever, the student body was not the most valuable player. This year, it  Dave Batton continued his excel­lent shooting, collecting 24 points, at key times, to lead the Irish past St. Bonaventure in a squeeker at Rockester War Memorial Auditor- road, "It is always extremely difficult to go on the road where every team is looking for the big win against the Irish. I'm confident that we'll now settle down and play better basketball."  


leers prepare for conference action 
by Chip Scanlon alek, Greg Meredith and Ted less than four minutes left sent the ents for Smith's skaters after a nesota Golden Gophers and be­Sports Writer Weltzin answered as the Irish took game into overtime. hectic examination week. Harvard came the first team this year to the lead 4-3. But five goals by Moher kicked out a breakaway took advantage of the Irish the first escape Williams Arena with a 
Lefty Smith's Irish icers are into Denver ended the contest, 8-4. The attempt to Ted Weltzin and Welt­night 4-3 despite a strong perfor­point in the.standings. Minnesota, the second half of their season and next night Denver really flexed zin fed Terry Fairholm who drilled mance by sophomore goaltender 10-0 previously, locked up with the looking back over the first half of their offensive muscles and gave the winner at 1:33 of the overtime. Greg Rosenthal. who was making Irish in a S-5 tie on Friday night as the year the Irish have come a long the Irish a sound thrashing, 8-2. It extended Notre Dame's hot this first appearance of the year. Moher made his 15th appearance way. The schedule did not do the Finally the Irish won their first string to five wins in six games and The Boston College Eagles sped by in overtime with only one loss and Irish any favors for the first four game against Michigan State and ended the schedule on a high note the tired Irish the next night, 8-2, Don Fairholm scored two goals. weeks. things started to go well. Terry before the players entered exam­as Notre Dame felt the effects of John Peterson made 37 stops the 
Fairholm got the winning goal on ination week. examination break. next night but the loss of seniorA young team opened on the Friday night and Len Moher barred Harvard and Boston College Two weekends ago Notre Dame blueliner Dan Byers and Kevinroad at Colorado College and let the door in goal. What looked like were the first non-league oppon-started afresh against the Min-[continued on page 11]two games slip away in the closing a Stanley Cup Championship cele­minutes of the contests. Next came bration ensued on the ice as the
Michigan to the Athletic and r
horn sounded. The Irish made it aConvocation Center. entering as clean sweep the next night, routing 

I .,, ..
the number one ranked team in the the Spartans. 10-2, while ten '>:>;""'"'country and leaving with two hard "'" 
~: .... ~#} ~

players scored one goal and four • ~ fought victories, S-3, 7-5. Then others notched at least two assists.
what had been a predominantly Michigan Tech was the nextinjury-free season for the Irish victim as Notre Dame won its thirdstarted to change. 
in a row. Kevin Nugent scoredWisconsin, the defending na­twice and Len Moher stopped 39
tional champion of collegiate 
shots to pace a 4-2 victory. In ahockey was Notre Dame's next penalty filled contest the next nightobstacle as they looked for their Don Fairholm got his first goal of·first win of the season. Kevin the year, but the Huskies went onNugent ' ·as in the stands with a to win, 7-1.

shoulder "jury and blueliner John Friedmann was in the infirmary The Fighting Sioux of North with mononucleosis. Julian Bar­Dakota invaded the ACC in the etta held the Irish to two goals for final two WCHA contests before the weekend and Notre Dame was Christmas vacation. The Irish led still in search of their first win with 4-3 after two periods on goals by the light at the end of the tunnel Nugent (2), Michalek and Steve still a long way off. Schneider and a scoreless third 
The next stop was Denver, period with Moher stopping 42 Colorado and the number of one shots gave the Irish their fourth ranked Pioneers. It started out victory in five outings. The next looking like it would be a long night afternoon North Dakota jumped out as Denver raced out to a 3-0 lead to a3-0 lead in the first period, but with only 3:58 gone in the first a determined comeback led by · ' 
period. It looked like the Irish cocaptain Dick Howe's two goals, . . . . 
offense had finally gotten un­Kevin Humphreys' power play tally The Irish ic~rs suffe~ed defeat last mght agamst Western Machagan but return to conference play 

tracked. Don Jackson,/I'on Mich-and Don Fairholm's tying goal with"·.· :•.tomOJ:ro.w·nagbt·agaanst..Colorado College. (pho~o.fly Ooug CJlr~kia)lJ ...... ,. • · 

Thursday, january 19, 1978 
the obstrver 11 
Terry Eurick 
-
Captain's Corner 
A Memorable 
Season 

Way back in the Spring of 1977 we started our preparation for the upcoming season. We knew that we possessed the talent to produce another National Championship team for Notre Dame, but we also realized that the road to being number-one was going to be filled with many challenges and adversities. Once Spring football ended, we were left to go our own ways and prepare individually for the challenging season of 1977-78. 
Anytime an athlete is left to work out on his/her own, a certain inner drive takes over which helps you to sacrifice many things in order to prepare for what the future holds. So it was this past summer for all of us. We came back to school in mid-August ready and willing to make the sacrifice required to be number-one. The two-a-day practices were long and tiring, but we worked hard, while always keeping -in mind our goal. Before any of us knew it, the first game against Pitt was a week away and what at one time seemed a dream was soon to be a reality. 
Opening the season against the defending National Champions was a thrill in itself, but more than that, it was an opportunity for us to prove ourselves. Although we did win the game, which is the most important thing, we didn't play very well as a team and were criticized by many people. The next week we lost to an up and down Mississippi team and for some un~xplainable reason, I felt as though the loss took a Jot of pressure off the team, yet we were definitely disappointed. 
The next week we had to come from behind to beat Purdue and we really began to feel as though things were starting to come together. After we soundly defeated a good Southern Cal team, we had our confidence going for us and we knew that we could play with anybody in the country. After avenging last years' Joss to Georgia Tech and concluding the regular season with a win over Miami, we set our sights on playing Texas. We knew that if we were going to get a crack at the National Title we would have to not only defeat Texas, but soundly beat them. 
During the weeks prior to the Cotton Bowl game we heard about how great Texas was and listened to all the talk by the news media. That is all it was-talk! Because we were mentally, physically, and most of all emotionally ready to play this great Texas team. 
Now reflecting back upon the game, I realized that we may have been the only people in the stadium at the time that truly believed that we could win, and win we did. 
Thinking about the game and season today gives me a great 'sense of satisfaction because we accomplished what we had set out to do. We overcame defeat, adversity, and injuries to become the National Champions and that is what it takes to be Number One. Although there were many fine individual efforts that kept us going game after game, it was a team effort that kept it all together. Most importantly we were a family that worked, sacrificed and believed in ourselves. 
ND icers anticipate CC 
[continued from page 10] well, assisting on a goal in the Nugent to fighting disqualifications process. Scott Cameron saw action hurt the Irish ranks and Minnesota • at wing and defense while filling in went on to win, 4-1. Notre Dame for the missing skaters. had lost Ted W eltzin earlier in the Last weekend the Irish shocked week to a shoulder separation, but the number one ranked Denver reserve winger Tom Farrell filled in Pioneers, handing them their 
Pau I Stevenson:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==:=====:=====:=:=:=:=:===:=:=====:=:=:===::::::::::================================================·========================:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::=======:======:::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=====================================:=:=:= !~~~~!o~:~! t!;:~:~~ 5i!~ ~~~~~
1 

and the tenacious checking line of Tom Michalek, Steve Schneider and Kevin Humphreys, Lefty's
'The Irish Eye 
crew scored eight goals while yielding eight over the course of the weekend. Bob Baumbartner 
=====================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================The Dallas Showdown scored two goals Friday while Before Notre Dame's 38-10 annihilation of previously unbeaten Texas Yes, October 22, 1977 is a day that will not be forgotten for many years. 
Meredith, Michalek, Nugent, Don 
was over, many Irish enthusiasts were claiming that the National For the seniors, this one day helped erase such memories as 55-24, 24-17 & Terry Fairholm and Jeff Brown­Championship should return to the Golden Dome. Well, on Tuesday, and 17-13. Now, 49-19 is a score that reaches the level of the 24-23 Sugar 
schidle had one on the weekend. 
January 3, the Irish were informed that Notre Dame was the unanimous Bowl victory over Alabama or the 71-70 basketball triumph over UCLA. 
"Although we lost 5-3 on Satur­selection for the National Title. . From that point on, the momentum continued to grow. Many were day night I thought we playedThe final UPI (Coaches) poll ended with the tightest race in 11 years. concerned that there may be a letdown the following weekend against better technically than . the nightHowever, Notre Dame captured first with 365 points, followed by Navy, however, 43-10 is no letdown. before," notes Smith. "We proved Alabama with 354. The AP (Writers) poll also gave Notre Dame the top Well, maybe the following weekend against Georgia Tech would be the that with determination · we can ranking with 1180 total points. Once again the Crimsolll Tide trailed the time the Irish would falter. However, after the 1976 loss to the Yellow play with anyone in the country." Irish with 1132 points. Jackets, the Irish would not lose this season. The Ramblin' Wreck was The next test for the Irish this In addition, the Grantland Rice trophy and the MacArthur Bowl were destroyed, 69-14. weekend against Colorado College awarded to Notre Dame, making the National Championship unanimous. The next Saturday was going to be quite a test, for the Irish were to Tigers. "These will be two Arkansas claimed third place in both wire service polls while Texas meet Clemson for the first time ever. The Tigers were 7-1-1 before that hard-hitting hockey games, Color­
finished fourth in AP and fifth in UPI. Penn State was fifth and fourth contest and were ready for the challenge. Notre Dame scored first, ado is always a very physical club respectively· however, minutes later when the Irish missed a field goal, the momentum and will be a good test for us as we The Irish experienced some difficulties in the beginning of the season, began to shift. Notre Dame found themselves trailing 17-7 entering the look to continue our drive," states 
but turned their early' misfortunes around and proved themselves to be the final period of play._ Once more, this squad displayed their championship Smith. nation's best. Head Coach Dan Devine recalls the overall season. caliber by registering 14 final period points, against the desires of some of "After the loss to Mississippi I felt it was a real cha.llenge," Devine the officials. The Irish returned to South Bend with a 21-17 win. 
Irish 
remarked. "It was an uphill fight. When things went a little bit bad, we Air Force was next and the Falcons were completely demolished, 49-0. closed tanks and had faith enough in what we were trying to do not to Later that evening, the Irish . were informed that the University had thrash Texas panic. If you stay in coaching long enough, you are going to have bad accepted an invitation to play in the Cotton Bowl on January 2. However, 
[continued from page 12]
starts and bad momments. It just depends on how you react to those bad thelrishstill had one game left, that being with Miami in two weeks. Notre things." sive Player, registered 17 tackles.
Dame also had to hope that Texas would defeat Texas A & M the following 
The Notre Dame football team reacted very well en route to their uphill weekend to insure that they would be playing the number-one team in the Ken Dike added 12 and Becker climb to the number-one ranking. In the Irish locker room on a blackboard country the day after New Year's. notched 11. Ross Browner was written, "It's not where you start, it's where you finish." accounted for eight tackles, includ­
Yes, the Irish started at the top in the UPI poll, but after a sluggish start Well, the Longhorns did win their battle with the Aggies, but the Irish 
ing three for losses. 
against the Pitt Panthers, Notre Dame dropped to fourth. The following still had to face Miami. Notre Dame took the lead quickly but then began Brad Shearer, the 1977 Outland weekend, the Mississippi Rebels upset the Irish 20 _ 13. After that to sputter. At halftime, the contest was still close. However, the Irish Trophy winner had his problemscontest, almost all Notre Dame followers wrote off the 1977 season. Once offense exploded in the second half and Notre Dame knocked the wind out stopping the Notre Dame offense. 
again, since many believed the National Championship would not return of the Hurricanes, 48-10. . "They played a super defensive to duLac this season, it was time to look ahead to 1978. This was also the Now, everything had worked out just as planned. The Irish ended the 
game and their offense capitalized
time to start looking for a new coach, someone that could utilize his talent. regular season at 10-1 and were preparing to face the number-one ranked on it," Shearer commented. · "I The following Saturday, the Irish travelled to West Lafilyette to face the team in Dallas. Many believed this battle would be for the national have nothing but praise for them. 
Boilermakers. With only one quarter remaining, Notre Dame trailed championship. However, Oklahoma, Alabama and Michigan would not They are a good football team.,24-14. When the final gun sounded the Irish were on top 31-24 thanks to entirely agree with that point. 
The Notre Dame defense, as well 
the heroics of a quarterback that hails from Monongahela, Pa. That game But, all the bowl games are over and we know Arkansas surprised as the offense, played superbly,marked a major turning point in the still young season. Oklahoma and Michigan choked in the big one once again. That left the limiting the Reisman TrophyThe next weekend, the Irish looked good against Mic:higan State, but race between Notre Dame and Alabama. Had any other team been in a winner, Earl Campbell to 116 yardstwo fumbles on the three yard line stopped Notre Dame: from doing any fight out with the Crimson Tide, Alabama probably would be the 1977 oin 29 attempts. But, Head Coach better than 16-6. National Charp.pions. The unbelieva_!:>le performance by the Dan Devine thinks his team is more 
Two weeks later, after a one-week sabbatical, the Notre Dame football Fighting Irish in the Cotton Bowl coupled with the weight carried by the t:1an just good.
team made another key change. This transformation invc,lved the offense. name Notre Dame, brought the t.tacArthur Bowl back to du Lac .. 
"This puts us where Texas was, Not only did Notre Dame decide to operate out of the usua1l wing-T, but out ''Next year we are going back for it again,'' Devine stressed. Well, it's number-one," Devine remarked. of the I formation as well. This game against Army gave the Irish a chance great to be optimistic about next year. However, for the mean time, the "We earned it on the field. W to practice their new offensive wea~n be,f!?re t:ry!ng ~t <?II ~h~ oppon,en! it, pl~y~rs a~d coac~es should take ~e _~ _e!J.j<!y th~ distin~on they've played the number-one team and was intended for, the University 'of· S6uthemCaHfotnia~·.'· "-'. . "·'••. I '· .• ' r, ~-~lltned-tbls' ~ear·,:: National.(ltampio~~·r. :'-'~~ . . ) ~· ". ~. n. 'r'' 'i,t:•.';\ ~ ··-~(1, "-f: we.'l)eat them:1·.-· ·.-:...·~· •· .';,;;,,,~:; 
----------------------------------------~----------------------~~~~----~~~~--------~--· 
Thursday, January 19, 1978 
12 the observer 

-
Notre Dame stampedes Longhorns 
Green Machine shocks country, destroys Texas, 38-10, and captures National Title 
by Paul Stevenson  needed only five plays to cover the  
Sports  Editor  35 yards to give the underdog Irish  
a 17-3 lead after Reeve's  conver­ 
Dallas  -The  Fighting  Irish  sion.  
football team shocked the Univer­ Then, with just over eight min­ 
sity of Texas as well as a national  utes remaining before intermission,  
television audience via their 38-10  Doug  Becker  intercepted  a  
stampede  over  the  Longhorns  in  McEachern aerial and returned the  
the January 2 Cotton Bowl Classic.  ball  17 yards  to  the  Texas 20.  
Notre Dame's victory over the sole  Three  plays  later,  Montana  hit  
remaining  undefeated  team  plus  Vagus  Ferguson  with  a  17  yard  
some  major upsets in other post­ touchdown  pass.  Reeve's  point  
season  competition  enabled  the  from placement gave Notre Dame a  
Irish to claim the National Cham­ 24-3  advantage.  
pionship  for  the  first  time  since  With 3:47 left before halftime,  
1973.  the Irish were crowded at their own  
The  Longhorns  received  the  six yard line.  But, the overwhelm­ 
opening kickoff and  attempted  a  ing offense moved the ball out to  
reverse, but their fortunes were not  the Irish 49 and surrendered  the  
to equal those of Georgia Tech.  ball with only 20 seconds left in the  
The  Irish defense anticipated  the  second period.  
misdirection  and  stopped  the  Texas  started at their  own  32  
Longhorns at their own 11.  and  within  four  plays  the  Long­ 
Texas  began  to  move  the  ball  horns had advanced the ball to the  
well and  was  soon  faced  with  a  Notre Dame 25.  With two seconds  
third down and one at their own 44.  left  before  halftime  McEachern  
Then,  Randy  McEachern  threw incomplete to flanker Ronnie  
attempted the option, but pressure  Miksch.  But,  an  interference  
from  Ross  Browner  caused  an  penalty gave the Longhorns  a 12  
errant pitch and Browner made the  yard gain and  an  extra  play with  
recovery at the Texas 32.  time already expired.  On that final  
The Irish were unable to advance  play,  McEachern  connected  with Head Coach· Dao Devine led the Fighting l~ish· to an unbelie~~ble 38-10 thrashin~ ~f previously  
the ball further than two yards, but Dave Reeve connected on a 47 yard  Mike Lockett with a 13 yard touchdown pass. Erxleben's point  unbeaten Te)c~S to.earn Notre Dame since.l973.  himself his first Nati~nal Cham[photo by Doug Christian]  pionship ever as well as the first title for .  
field goal to put the Irish on top, 3-0. Texas then marched down to the Notre Dame 25 on their next possession and Russell Erxleben knotted the score on a 42 yard field goal. but after that point, every­thing was Irish. Jim Browner recovered a Ham Jones fumble at the Texas 22 on the next Longhorn possession and the Irish needed but four plays to reach the endzone. Notre Dame quarter­back Joe Montana connected with Ken MacAfee for a ten yard pickup and Jerome Heavens ran for gains of one and ten yards before Terry Eurick rolled over left tackle for the first Notre Dame touchdown. Reeve's extra point gave the Irish a 10-3 advantage with only 1:06 gone in the second period. McEachern fumbled for the Longhorns five plays later and Willie Fry was there to recover the ball for the Irish. Notre Dame  after narrowed the Irish lead to 24-10. With that last score. memories of the 1974 clash with Southern Cal began to emerge in the minds of Notre Dame seniors. But, the Irish would not be denied the goal that they worked so hard to attain. Although they did not score on their opening possession of the third quarter, Notre Dame moved the ball well enough to set the tone for the remainder of the contest. The Irish drove from their own 20 to the Texas 22 before stalling. However, Reeve's 39 yard three­point attempt fell short of the goal posts. But, the Irish were to regain the football quickly as McEachern was intercepted again, this time by Steve Heimkreiter. Notre Dame started at the Texas 23 and seven plays later, Ferguson scampered off left tackle for the next Irish touchdown. After Reeve  hit the extra pofn(Notre dame led, 31-10. . . . The final scor~ ·of ·the contest came at the 13:59 rriark of the final period when Ferguson veered off left tackle and then cut back right for a 26 yard touchdown run. The game ended with the. Irish on the Texas two, faced with a second down and one. When time had expired,. Notre Dame claimed their second Cotton Bowl victory in three attempts. That triumph before a record 76,701 Cotton Bowl fans and a national television audience -elimi­nated the Longhorns from the National Championship picture. However, although the Irish fans believed their team to be the best in the country. the pollsters were the ones that would decide. Oklahoma's loss to Arkansas and Michigan's loss to Washington may have helped, but even though  Alabama was ranked third in the else. ·At least they continued to polls before the bowl competition, work ha.rd and strive for the goal the Irish ·were able .to eclipse the they so desired and believed they Tide in the final ballotting. could attain. Arkansas. Alabama or Penn This is the way it all ended on State may nqt agree with the . January 2. 1978: NOtre Dame decision, but beating t!:te best butchered the Longhorns, 38-10. regular season team, the Irish truly Notre Dame registered 26 first earned their National Champion­·downs, while Texas managed only ship. The fact that Notre was a 16. The Irish had 399 total yards, unanimous choice strengthens the while the Longhorns compiled 291. Irish's claim for the top spot. Heavens carried the ball22 times The Irish turned around a poor .for 105 yards while Ferguson had early season start to become the .21 attempts for 102 and was named nation's best. It does not matter the game's Most Outstanding who is on top during the course of Offensive Player. the season or for ·how long. What Montana connected on ten of 25 matters is who proves themselves · passes for 111 yards, while being to be the best in the end. intercepted only once. MacAfce After the Mississippi contest, had four receptions for 45 yards. many wrote off the chances for a while Dave Waymer had three for National Championship. But, the 38 and Kris Haines had two for 29. people that did not give up were Bob Golic, who was named the the players and coaches, and their game's Most Outstandin~ Defen­beliefs matter more than anyone [ continued on page 111  

19 
I· 
I 
September 1 0 
NO 19 
September 17. 
ND13 

September 24 November 5 
ND 31 Purdue 24 ND69 Georgia Tech 14 
October 1 .November·12 ) 
ND 16 Michigan State 6 Clemson 17 
:..... 

Qctober 15 November ·19 
ND 24 Army o ND49 Air Force 0 
\ 

December 3 
J • 

N.D 48 






