.-------------------------------------------·~----------------------------------------·----­
.. -,._--· ,. 
At Roemer's request 

Pears announces retirement 

by Diane Wilson News Editor 
Arthur Pears, director of Notre 
Dame Security, announced yester­
day that he will be retiring on Dec. 
16. Pears, who will be 65 on Dec. 16, added that the University requested that he retire. Pears will be replaced by Joseph Wall. 
Pears said he received a letter on Aug. 29 from Dean of Students James Roemer requesting that he retire. The letter also expressed apreciation for his 13 years of service with the Security Depart­ment. 
The letter continued to explain the training of the new security direc­tor. Wall will enter the Univer­sity's employment Oct. 1. This will provide an eleven week overlap for Wall's orientation and the letter emphasized that Pears' termina­tion date could not be extended beyond Dec. 16. 
Wall has been the chief of police at Richtown Park, IL, since April 1975. He received a bachelor's 
i 


Carter arfives for Mideast summit 
CAMP DAVID, MD [AP] -Presi­dent Carter arrived at this Marine­guarded Mideast summit site yes­terday, pleading for compromise and saying chances for complete success are very remote. 
''Compromises will be manda­tory,'' Carter said as he left the White House. "Without them, no 
progress can be expected.  Flexi­ 
bility will be the  essence  of  our  
hopes."  

He confirmed that the summit, which has no time limit and could go on for a week or more, will be held in extraordinary seclusion. 
"I would say that we will be almost uniquely isolated from the press and the outside world," Carter said. "My hope is that this degree of personal interchange, without the necessity for political posturing or defense of a transient stand or belief, will be construc­tive." 
Carter praised Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin for "their willingness to come when the political consequences of failure might be very severe, and when the prospects of complete success are very remote." 
He said he is convinced both men want peace, but he offered a guarded outlook for the meeting. 
"No one can ensure the degree of success which we might enjoy. The issues are very complicated. The disagreements are deep. 
"Four wars have not led to peace in that troubled region ofthe world. 
degree in social justice from Lewis University and a master's degree from Roosevelt University in public administration. 
When asked about his mandatory retirement, Pears said that it was the prerogative of the University to decide at any time whether a person should retire. Pears said he plans to look for another job after Dec. 16. 
He said he would take a job with the University if he could find one that appealed to him. Roemer commented that he would be "delighted to see the University work out something with Art so that he could remain 1 with the. University." 
Roemer did say that he did not want Pears to work for the Security Department. He felt that it would cause too many administrative problems if he stayed with security. "It is only good administrative sense to not have Art with security. It will cause confusion within. the department, as people will not be sure who is the boss," Roemer added. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Pears worked with the Niles, Ml, police department as an officer for 15 years and, more recently, as the police chief for 15 years. 
Pears said he has enjoyed working with the University. "Every day brought a new challenge," he stated, adding that he thought it was great to work with and help young people. 
• • Art Pears has done a remarkable job," said Roemer. "The entire University owes him a debt of gratitude." Roemer added that Pears developed the security de­partment from its original small department that handled a few problems to the large organization it is now, designed to handle many problems. 
Roemer said that Pears has gained the respect of many people, both on campus and off, because of the way he has handled problems at Notre Dame. 
There is not~use for excessive optimisim, but there is also no cause for despair. 
"The greatest single factor which causes me to be encouraged is my sure knowledge that Prime Minister Begin and President Sadat genuinely want peace. They are determined to make progress, and so am I." 
As host to the unprecedented and politically risky summit, Carter was first to make the helicopter trip to this Catoctin mountaintop, 65 miles from Washington, that is best knkown as a presidential playground. 
Sadat and Begin will be wel­comed here by Carter this after­noon. The summit gets underway formally tomorrow. 
Begin was in New New York City on this U.S. Labor Day holiday, meeting with American Jewish leaders and others. 
Sadat was in Paris for talks with French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing. Diplomatic sources said Sadat was seekin~ French support for his Camp David negotiating position. 
Carter prayed for peace on Sunday at a Bible school session at First Baptist Church, where he regularly attends services when in Washington. 
"Let every heart involved be cleansed of selfishness and per­sonal pride. Let us all tum to thee, God our father, for true guidance, wisdom, forgiveness of others, in 
the search for common ground," the U.S. president said. Begin, upon arriving in New 
York City on Sundy, declared:"We 
want peace more than any nation on earth... 
Sadat has described the Camp David conference as "a last chance" for a Mideast settle­ment--a position challenged by Begin, who has talked of it as a possible prelude to further, pro­longed negotiations. 
' U.S. officials have contented 
themselves with expressing hope 
that Begin and Sadat will be able to 
make the compromises necessary 
to give new impetus to the stalled 
peace process. 
To help them, the Carter ad­ministration has prepared dozens of options and proposals for pos­sible compromises on difficult points. But U.S. officials are trying 
not to arouse public hopes, only to have them dashed by a less than successful summit. 
State Department officials, declining to be identified publicly, say they do not expect anything approaching a complete settlement to emerge. One said the ad­ministration would be pleased were Begin to recognize that Israel must withdraw from at least part of the West Barik of the Jordan River, seized in the 1967 Six-Day war, in order to have peace.' Thus far, the Israeli leader has not done so. 
Israeli officials also are ex­pressing limited expectations for the summit. One official who asked to remain anonymous said his country would be satisfied if Camp David produced nothing more than an agenda for the next meeting. 
On the Arab side, Sadat had much less to say, although he has appeared more willing to view the 
summit in apocalyptic terms. 
Board rejects 'umbrella' organization 
byTooyPace 
Editor-ID-cldef 

The Board of Commissioners voted yesterday, in their initial 
meeting of the school year, to reject a proposal to establish an Office of Information and Communication (OIC). 
The proposal for the OIC was brought before the board by Bill Kresse, a student government media aide. It called for the formation of an "umbrella" organi­zation to coordinate the public relations and information activities for student government, Student Union, the Hall fresidents' Council and the Judicial Coordinator. The members of this proposed body were to be the individuals in each organization who were currently responsible for its communications. 
Kresse brought the proposal before the board because he "saw some problems with communica­tion between those organizations (represented by the Board of Commissioners) and with the student body. Kresse cited any possible improvements in these communications as the major bene­fit of the proposed office. "Any improved communication between the member organizations and the students would be good." 
The Board of Commissioners is composed of Student Body Presi­dent Andy McKenna, who serves as chairman of the board, Student Body Vice President Mike Roohan, Student Union Director Bill Roche, Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Chuck Delgrande, HPC representa­tive Dan Darfler and Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo. All but Roohan were present at yester­day's meeting. 
Although Kresse described the proposed OIC as a light "umbrel­la'' organization which would not be involved in all the communica­tions of these organizations, Me Kenna was concerned that "the proposed organization may quickly grow into a larger one which gets in the way of everyone." McKenna admitted, however, that "the pur­pose (of the OIC) is legitimate." There is a need for a bett. r information flow, but right now my office is not organized well enough to feed the necessary information into a larger organization." 
The proposed OIC was only for a one-semester trial, but the board rejected it with a voice vote. 
The board set a regular time for its meetings, 7 p.m. on every other Sunday, and decided that its meet­ings would be closed to the publk:. The press, however, will be admit­ted to most meetings. 
Student Union Director Bill Roche expressed some co"cem that there was a need for the students tc have a place where they could be heard, but HPC Chairman Chuck Delgrande stated that his organiza­tion is the nearest thing to an open forum for the students. The first 
(cutlaued 11 Pill I) 


Dean James Roemer announced th1t the evening escort service for women hu bun discontinued. For further det1lls plene ne page 5. (Photo by Ron Szot) 
.:.c' 

Tuesday, September 5, 1978
2_ the observer _ 

,....News Briefs----~ 
~~~-=------=========World 

Terrorist camp raided 
SYDNEY, Australia -Police raided a secret training camp for terrorists in a remote mountain area 250 miles south of here, arrested 20 men and seized a cache of guns, knives and explosives, police said Sunday. Police said the men wore berets with the Croatian nationalist insignia. One man was released after questioning officials said. 
]udl(es re_fuse to preside 
BANGKOK, Thailand • Judges. protesting cuts in their salaries, rl'fu~cd to preside over trials in this cit~'s crimi~al ~nd ci.vi.l courts \Tsfcrday. About 300 judges met wtth the Justtce m.mtster to .-omplain that the new law on government salary adJustments dcnca~cd their wages, rather than increased them. 
~=:::=~-----:==============-== National 
Record pledl(es solicited 
LAS VEGAS, NV. "I doed it! I doed it!" Jerry Lewis screamed Monday after soliciting pledges for a record $29 million to fight muscular dystrophy. The money was promised during Le~is' 21 °/c,.hour annual Labor Day telethon, which began Sunday eventng and ended late yesterday afternoon. Lewis' spokesman Horace Pctzall said pledges totalling $29.074,405 were phoned in to the regional television stations that carried the telethon. topping last year's $26.841.419. 
Postal talks continue 
WASHINGTON -Mediator James J. Healy met separately yesterday with officials of the Postal Service and three major unions. then scheduled joint talks for today in negotiations aimed at resolving a longstanding.contract dispute. There was no word as to possible progress yesterday in the 15-day round of new talks that began Friday. 

\·Weather 
I 

Mostly sunny and pleasant today. High in the low 80s. Clear and mild tonight. Low around 60. Mostly sunny and warm tomorrow. Highs in the mid to upper 80s. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
4:30pm m89tlng, wrestling team, for all members and those interested in joining. c-14 ace 
4:30pm seminar. "report on scientific trip to mainland ch1na." prof. morris pollard. n.d .. 278 galvin aud., sponsored by biology dept. 
7 pm meeting. organizational meeting for nd student managers, ace auditorium. interested students welcome 
7.9,11 pm film. "dirty harry." sponsored by am erlcan Institute of mechanical engineering, eng. aud., $1 
7:30 pm charlsm atic eucharist. open to all, log cabin chapel 
8 pm lecture, "the eucharist in the new testament." canon c.p.m. jones. oxford, england, 202 architec­ture aud., sponsored by theology dept. 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief StPve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Aryan Gruley Features Editor Doug Christian Photo Editor 

Pope stresses'religious freedom' 
VATICAN CITY [AP] • Pope John Paul I, addressing the foreign dignitaries who came to the Vatican for his inauguration, appealed for greater religious freedom world­wide yesterday and promised to pray for the success of the Mideast peace talks at Camp David. 
The pope told the emissaries that his greatest wish was for the extension of religious liberty. Some representatives at the papal audience were from countries that have placed restraints on religious activity, including several dele­gates from the Communist world. 
"Allow us to count on your willing collaboration," the pontiff said. 
The pope also met privately with 
U.S. Vice President Walter F. Mondale and promised prayers for success of President Carter's Mid­east peace talks this week with the leaders of Egypt and Israel. 
Italian authorities. meanwhile. stepped up security precautions at the Vatican and at embassies and diplomatic residences, where many of the foreign guests were staying. 
The heightened precautions fol­lowed a bomb blast in Rome late Sunday night that shattered the gate and broke windows at the Lateran Palace, the residence of the pope's vicar to Rome. There were no injuries. The pope was in his own apartments in the Vatican three miles away at the time. 
Pope John Paul told the envoys that the church has no "miracle solutions" to world problems but stood ready to help in any way to serve the international well-being. 
"We wish foremost that Chris­tian communities always enjoy in your countries the respect and the freedom which any religious conscience is entitled to and that a fair place be made for their contributions in the search for the common good," the pope told the 
In New York 
delegates. 

Present were representatives of Communist-ruled nations in eas­tern Europe, including the Soviet Union, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, East Germany and Poland. Other countries represented included the Philippines, South Korea and several South American nations, where religious leaders have come under fire for supporting human rights activists. 
The pope met separately with 12 heads of state, seeing them for about 10 minutes each in his library at the Vatican's Apostolic Palace. 
Union threatens strike 
NEW YORK lAP]-Angered by unconfirmed reports that this city's three largest newspapers may at­tempt to publish despite a strike that has closed them for 27 days, a sixth union is expected to join the growing walkout. sources said yes­terday. 
George E. McDonald, president of the coalition of newspaper unions here. has called a Wednesday night 


Man admits slayings at routine check 
NASHVILLE, TN. [AP] • A man stopped by traffic patrolmen for a broken tailight yesterday told police he had killed 17 people over the past two years -most recently the owner of the car he was driving, authorities said. 
Officers said they had verified the man's account ofth most recent slaying and were checking with Ohio and Pennsylvannia authorities on the others. 
"He said he had enough ammo to kill several more people in the 
Nashville  area  and  he  was  then  
going  to  kill  himself,"  Detective  
Bill Robeck said.  

Asked whether he believed the 
you stopped me. I just committed a murder.' He gave them a weapon and told them where they could find the body.'· 
Following directions to a down­town alley, officers found the body of David R. Willie, 36, also unemployed. The car Taylor drove is registered to Willie. 
Robeck said that once at the station house, Taylor listed a series of alleged slayings he said he had committed, including the murder of a husband and wife in Boardman, OH, earlier this year, and several homicides in the area of New Brighton, PA, about 20 miles from Boardman. 
meeting of the Mailers Union, 
which he also heads. McDonald 
would not discuss the purpose of 
the meeting, but a source close to 
the situation said McDonald was 
furious at what he saw as manage­
ment attempts to break the strike. 
The source said McDonald 

planned to ask his members to join 
the five other unions officially on 
strike. 

Word of the mailers' meeting circulated following reports that Rupert Murdoch. publisher of the New York Post, and the publishers of The New York Times and Daily News were seeking to make a deal with the newspaper deliverers union and had asked for police protection of trucks that would distribute papers printed by non­strikers. 
The reports were vehemently denied by Douglas LaChance, pre­sident of the deliverers union, by Mayor Edward I. Koch and by Murdoch, and there was no indica­lion that the three papers were gearing up to publish. But the reports stirred alarm among the 
10.000 unionized employees oi the Times, News and Post. 
The drivers, members of an independent union that does not pay strike benefits, have thus far honored the picket lines at the three newspapers. 
multiple confessions, Robeck said, iF,~~~~:;;;~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!7!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!lJ 
"I don't know. I believe him on one. How much is fact and how much is fiction, I can't say." 
Charged with murder, armed robbery an auto theft was Kenneth 
G. Taylor, 37, an unemployed Lima, Ohio, man who said he was hitchiking to the West. He had been driving the car of a man who picked him up en the city's interstate system, police said. 
Detective Sgt. Henry Rodgers said two patrolmen pulled Taylor's car over "because it was driving around with no taillight. As they approached him, he said, 'I'm glad 
*The Observer 
NIght E d Ito r: Sherry Mu m m e rt Asst. Night Editor: Bllt uevm Layout Staff: Mary Ann Cooke and Tom Monroe Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: M ardl Nevin, Tom Pipp 1 Mary McCauley Early Morning Typist: me Copy Reader: Debbie Dahrllng 
Ad  Layout:  Dave  Wood,  Bob  
Rudy  
Photographer: Rot  
·Don't ask  me  about  that  last  
one; I just type.  

HAPPY BIRTHDAY LAN Guest appearance at 4:00am by Steve Odland 
The Observer Is Pl•bllshed Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. nw Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Anoctatld Pren. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
PHONE 
234-6767 
A new dimension in hair designsfor the aware man and woman 



For Women Redken shampoo_ S conditioner with haircut Reg. $9.75 
Now $7.50 
~ED KEN 
For Men RK shampoo and cmiitioning mth hairrut and air stylingReg. $12.75 
Now $10.50 

located Edison at lro••wood East side of Capri Resturant uu1roun•~r1 
Hours 
Tues and Fri 8~30-5:30 Wed and Thurs 8:30-8:30 Sat 8:00-4:00 


" YOU'RE A GOOD MAN CHARLIE BROWN " 
will be held wed, sept. 6_ ond thurs, sept 7 AT 7 pill IN THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
THE PRODUCTION WD.L BE SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT PLAY.ERS UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE STUDENT UNION COLTUBAL ARTS 
COMMISSION ALL STUDENTS ARE INVITED I TO AUDITION FOB MORE INFORMATION CALL CBBIS 6872 

Darragh stresses involvement 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 

Gail Darragh, Saint Mary's stu­dent body president, promises a year of diverse social, cultural and profession-oriented activities on the campus. 
"We're not bringing up contro­versial issues this year. We're more interested in getting the stud­ent body involved in student government-sponsored activities,'' she said. 
"Last year, issues like parietals and the 21-Ciub were top priorities and although I'd love to see them go further, I feel they've gone as far as they can for awhile," Darragh continued. 
Instead, Darragh's administra­tion is busy planning such activities as Professional Week (Nov. 7-9) during which Saint Mary's alum­nae from different majors will speak about their experiences in the working world. 
"We decided to invite alumnae because they know the kind of background and education we're coming from and what our pro­blems and experiences are likely to be," she explained. 
A committee of five students, one administrator and one faculty member has also been organized to 
Cafeteria staff returns to ND payroll 
by Laura Larimore Staff Reporter 

Dining hall employees have been returned to the University payroll while management of the food service remains under contract 
. to SAGA. According to Robert 
r-......... 
-

work on developing a lecture series in which speakers such as actress Cicely Tyson would visit the college 
Darragh said. 
Women's Week, which made its debut last April, will be continued again next semester. No definite dates have yet been set. 
A hotline will be organized for students who wish to become involved in activities. During certain hours, the Student Govern­ment office will be manned so that students can phone or visit the office with complaints, suggestions and questions, -Darragh said. 
Social events planned for the year include an outdoor concert this month, Oktoberfest, a seven-part movie series and special holiday celebrations. 
In addition, student government will be involved in traditional converns such as the publication of "The Grapevine" (student govern­ment newsletter), the United Way campaign, a college charity and working toward improved security on campus. 
Buddy appointed Asst. St. Mary's Observer Editor 
Ellen Buddy, a junior elemen-.. worked on The Observer as a senior tary-education major from Dodge staff reporter and staff reporter. City, KS, has been appointed Buddy will be responsible for Assistant Saint Mary's Editor. assisting the Saint Mary's Editor 
Previous to her appointment to in providing news coverage for the this non-board position, she had college . 
Robinson, food service director, the new contract went into effect July .., 1, giving SAGA management du-
Your student radio station 
ties only. 
Most of the changes instituted last There will be few noticeable chang as in the dining halis thIs year semester will be retained, inclu-as the employees return to the University payroll from SAG A ding the dining hall computer-entry food service. [photo by Paul Joyce] 
system, originally planned by the • e e e e e e e e e e e e • e e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 



WSND-AM!FM 
old Notre Dame Food Service. e d f-ft b 1 f 
Robinson feels that the system has e sen your parentS a Q SU SCr ptfon e t:voadvantageso~er_theold check-. .....ow's uour chancalll : 
hst system. pomtmg out that • 1"'1111111 ~ V"• • • • 

AUDITIONS 
students can eat in either dining • b •b ....V • 
hall and _that lines seem to move. su SCII e to """'Observer • 
faster w1th the machmes. The e • expanded salad bar will also be • for only JlO. per semester • 
retained and there are plans for e • further improvement. • (J20. per year) • 
Additional improvements in the e • variety of the menu will be di~-• send payment to: • 
cussed with the Student Food e • Committee, Robinson said. Organ-e THE OBSERVER e ized by the Co-ex Commissioner's e CIRCULATIOIIr..l DEPT • 
office. the committee serves as a e f"''l e liaison between the students and • 80X Q • the director. meeting on a regular e e basis. Robinson anticipates to • NOTRE DAffiE , IND. e 
generate more student interest • e through the committee. He indi-• 46556 • cated that he would look to them for • e advice on the timing of special \ ,J\n,,\ • meals, so as not to conflict with ~yt~ 1, name • other student activities, and also • ., • for some input on food budget • address • planning, such as whether money • • should be devoted to expanding the • entree selection or widening the • dessert choices. • --------------­

ONIGHT,WEDNESDAY 7-1
N. D. Student Union Services Commissio'l 
WSND studios,
ATTENTION FRESHMAN: 
O'Shaughnessy 4th Floor
YOUR Freshman Register has arrived 
distribution Sept. 6&7 Questions 
Student Union Office 2nd Fl. LaFortune call 7342 
9·10:30 am & 3-5 ,. 


4__ the observer Tuesday, Septem bar 5, 1978 
In Rhodesia 

Ten crash survivors slain 
Countdown Specials to the Game 
Tues.-7 and 7's 50' from 7-10 Wed.-Old Style Bottles so~ from 7-10 
SAUSBUR\', Rhodesia I API ·Ten 
passengers who survived the crash 
of a Rhodesian airliner near the 
war-torn Zambian border were 
~unncd down tll black nationalist 
~ucrrillas. Rhod!:,ia'\ militar;.• col!l­
·mand reported yc:.terctay. 

A p:~-;scngn wh" ~scapcd t1'. 
lkcing into the tlush 'aid two ot the· 
-.lain pas,cngcr' wcrl' children. 

A military ClllllmUnlquc sa1d IX of 
lht· Sh persons a hoard survived 
tht· ~unda·. ni)!.ht crash. and live 
went for hdp. When the guerrillas 
arrived they opened fire on the 
otht•r IJ. kiling len, it said. Rescue 
teams found the three survivors of 
l he gucrrill:>altack and the tlve who 
had gone l11r aid. 

The 11ther JX passengt•rs and crew 
were hdicvcd to h<tve died tn the 
l'l'a,h. 

ll;~n, llan-;en. who survived the 
llla<·k. \aid about an hour after the 
,·n,h. nine guerrillas emerged into 
the dearing gouged out hy the 
.ur,..-aft. and "when they first 
.1pproadll'd u' they said they were 
~oing to gi\lt' us water and help. 

I hen when they gathered us to­
L!ether. the\· said, '\'ou have taken 
<>Ill' land. · We arc going to kill 
\OIL"' and began shooting. 

One woman was bayonetted after 
heing shot. Hansen said. "It was 
the most brutal thing I have ever 
'l'l'll. 

l'lll' bullets missed the JS-year-old Uansen, his wife Diana, 31. and Anthony Hill. .19. all white Rho­!h:sians-. They ran into the brush and hid fur the night. 
Hili's desl·ription of the crash ~.·aused speculation that a ground­to-air missile might have downed the four-engine turboprop Viscount of Air-Rhodesia. 
·'There was a tremendous explo­sion," he said. "Then flames started shooting past the window on the starboard wing. The plane came down at a hell of a speed, then it crashed." 
Thurs.-Pitchers Fri.-Happy Hour 
Liquor Store Specials 
~-~·;..:a.-J~Av.·.t.v~~...·~v.-.-.-....,.._vv 
$3.46 plus tax $6.73 
The Hansens and Hill spoke with 
reporters from a hospital in Kariba. 
the northern resort town where 
they had boarded the plane for the 
200-mile flight southeast to Salis­
hurv. it crashed about five minutes 
after takt>off. 

Nationalist guerrillas of Jo~hua 
NJ..,mw· ;,1 Lw1h1a-ba~ed Zimbabwe 
Afrtl:an People's Union arc thick in 
the area and said to posses~ 
Soviet-made missiles which home 
in on the engine heat of the 
aircraft. 

"Security force members arriving 
at the scene of the crash this 
morning said a st<trboard engine 
appeared to have exploded and the 
starboardexternal side of the plane .was heavily scorched." the com­munique said. The pilot. John Hood, 36, had frantically radioed that "I have lost 
Nicaragua: 



Unrest continues 
Managua, Nicaragua [AP) · Political leaders backing the vio­lence-riddled general strike against President Anastasio Somoza said yesterday nearly 700 persons have been arrested in the past few days. 
Both sides braced for more blood­shed. with indications that the relatively unscarred capital of Ma­nagua might become the next battlefield. 
The government pressed into service 500 civilians from state agencies to reinforce national guardsmen patrolling Managua. Owners of stores that have re­mained open received new threats. 
lsmael Reyes. president of the Nicaraguan Red Cross. expressed fear that fighting in the provinces, 




Goose's·Nest 
which has taken more than SO lives 
in the last two weeks, would spread 
to Managua. 

"We are laying out medicine, building 20 emergency centers," he said. "We believe that what is going to happen in Managua will be much worse than in other parts of the country." 
A National Guard communique Sunday said more than 200 persons had been arrested in Managua for planning demonstrations. 
Eduardo Chamorro Coronel of the opposition Conservative Party claimed that 60 .political leaders and at least 600 other persons throughout the country are being held "incommunicado at undis­closed locations." 
On Aug. 24, Somoza's opposition 
both starboard engines." before . 
the plane disappeared. 

All the passengers were whites 
except for eight members of two 
Rhodesian Asian families. All were 
Rhodesians or South Africans ex­
cept a Scottish couple visiting 
Rhodesian relatives. 

The military-cummun1que ~aid the guerrilla.> ·arrived at the scene shortly after the crash and ordered. the passengers to their feet. 
·'The terrorists then opened fire with Communist-made AK-47 a~­sauIt rifles and ten of tbe passen­gers died in a hail of fire." the commumque said. The shooting victims were not identified, but six were said to be women. 
The military said the guerrillas then looted the aircraft and the bodies of those who died in the crash. 
$1.50 from 7-10 Drafts 25~ 
' 3 til , Mixed Drinks 50' 
12 pack Old Style bottles case of Stroh's 
watch for more specials 
Anyone wishing to vote in the November Indiana elections 
should contact Paul Falduto at 3628. The deadline for voter 
registration is Sept. 23 lor any student who will be 18 yurs old 
by Nov. 7. 
~-~---~--~--~--~------------~ 
called for a general strike aimed at 
toppling the government. The strike is strongest outside Mana­gua. The Managua Chamber of Commerce, which supports the strike, said 78 percent of the businesses in the capital were closed. The chamber bases its survey on shopping centers. Gas stations. most banks, government offices and the open· air market remained open. 
The government withdrew the chamber's charter after it joined 
We party every nite at Goose's want to have a happy hour call us at 233-1115 or 283-7781 

~---­
.. ~ ·. 

: . ..
~ 
Tuesday, Septem bar 5, 1978 
the observ 



Watch out! He walks a big baby 
INDIANAPOLIS [API -When Norman Morehead walks ~he baby, he doesn't take her by the hand. 
He takes her by the trunk. 
"I hadn't had any previous experience," the 22-year-old train­er said. "Not many people do. It's not often you get a chance to train a 2-year-old elephant." 
Morehead got his chance when he began working for the Indiana­polis Zoo after he earned a geology degree from Indiana-Purdue Uni­versity here last March. 
His first duties included tending lions, leopards and zebras, but when the elephant keeper resigned to return to school, Morehead landed the job of caring for Kubwa, the zoo's recently acquired African elephant. 
Kubwa, who stands 46 inches at the shoulder and weighs in at 600 pounds. is destined to reach 8 feet at the shoulder and weigh as much as 15,000 pounds -as good a reason as any for training her now. 
"Things were touch and go when 
Observer 
she first came, and she had had no positive human contact before," Morehead explained. "It's just their nature when anything gets in their way to just try to get it out of their way any way they can. During the get-acquainted stage, she'd try to slap us with her trunk, butt us, ram us in the wall, kick and bite. Yes, elephants do bite." 
Since then, Kubwa has been shaping up. Onder Morehead's tutelage, the elephant has learned to respond to four basic commands: halt, forward, steady -and the elephant keepers' equivalent to 'heel,' in which the animal assumes the keeper's pace, walk­ing with the elephant's left shoul­der even with the keeper's right one. 
Morehead said he plans to teach Kubwa to raise her trunk on command, back up in a straight line and hold a position with her left front and right rear feet lifted. 
"I like the work -it's very 
he said, adding, "If someone had told me a year ago that this is what I'd be doing, I wouldn't have believed it." 
Board rejects organization 
!continued from page 1] 
HPC meeting is scheduled for 
today at 6:30p.m. in Stanford Hall. 
In a final matter of business, 
student government Treasurer 
Beau Mason set a timetable for the 
September budget hearings.. Ma­
son said ''Monday, Sept. 25, ts the 
due date for all budget requests by 
student clubs and organizations for 
the upcoming year." The budget 
for student government, the HPC 
and Student Union will be reviewed 
on Thursday, Sept. 28, and the 
request of individuals clubs and 
organizations will be heard on 
Sunday, Oct. 1, which is the date 
set forth in the student government 
constitution for the finalization of 
the budget for the academic year. 

Now get the best Pizza 'in town delivered right to your door, 
nightly fr~m 6-10 pm 
31 N. AT DARDEN RD. 


ND Evening escort service for women discontinued 
by Marlbeth Moran Staff Reporter 
The evening escort service for . women implemented last May by 
Dean James Roemer has been 
discontinued. 
Roemer cited several reasons for 
the termination of this security 
measure, which involved driving 
women students to their residence 
halls. His reasons included the 
extreme increase in traffic on the 
campus roads as well as the 
hazards imposed to the pedestri­
ans. 
According to Roemer, campus 
security officials estimated an in­
crease of 500 cars on campus 
during any given weekend night. 
''There was no way to tell if all 
these cars were really dropping off 
people or an abuse of the privi­
lege." 
The single road encircling the 
campus is also a drawback to the 
continued practice of allowing extra 
vehicles on the University grounds. 
Roemer cited the steady increase 
of joggers, cyclists and pedestrians 
crossing the road at many places as 
an additional consideration for 
discontinuing the policy. Head­
lights of cars are not always an 
adequate means of identifying 
persons on the road. 
In response to a question con­
cerning male students driving their 
dates to residence halls during the 
weekend, Roemer stated that stu­
dents who had been drinking posed 
a serious threat to the safety of 
pedestrians using the campus 
roads. 
As an alternative to the drive-on 
policy, Roemer cited the Securi 
Ombudsman office moved 
Th~ Ombudsman Office has been moved to the Conference Room on the second floor of LaFortune. Phon~ service is not yet in opera­tion, :but will resume as soon as possible at 6283. 
Escort Service. Any student rna acquire a security escort by callin 4444 and waiting for approximate) 10 minutes until a security person nel arrives to take them to the' particular dorm. 
SMC Founder's 
Day planned 
_by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 

Next month's Saint Mary's Founder's Day, which will cele­brate the college's 135-year history, will be different from any such celebration in the past, Sopho­more Class President Adri Trigiani told the Saint Mary's Board of Governance last night. 
Tentative plans, which should be finalized next week, call for a special buffet sit-down dinner on Thursday, Oct. 12, for students, faculty, administration and the Board of Regents, complete with a ,. stage and entertainment, according to Trigiani. · 
Although the sophomore class will be responsible for planning the day's activities, the other classes and the halls will also be expected to help, she said. 
Board members also decided to re-establish the weekend check­cashing service initiated last year. Student government members will cash checks up to $5 on the LeMans side of the dining hall during Saturday night dinners, except on home football weekends. 
In addition, Marianne Frost, co-ex ~om missioner, announced that the possibility of special co-ex tickets for Notre Dame students with late Tuesday-Thursday classes at Saint Mary's is being explored. 
Special tickets for off-campus students are also being considered, she said. 
The next Board of Governance meeting will be Sept. 18 at 7 p.m. in the Student Government office in the basement of Regina North. 
*The Observer 
wishes to thank all of our subscribers for letting the spirit of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's into their homes. It is the paper's intention to serve all its readers. Therefore, we ask that any suggestions, criticisms, or complaints concerning content or delivery be made promptly. Please send all correspondence to: 
The Observer Circulation Dept. BoxQ Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Anyone· wishing to participate in 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT '78 
on Monday 11 Sept 7-12 pm must be at a mandatory meeting , Wed. 6 Sept. at 7pm in the LAFORTUNE BALLROOM Please bring the authorization slip from student activities with 1 you, or you will not 
SEE WIDE SCREEN FOOTBALL! 
be allowed to
NORTH VILLAGE MALL HAPPY HOURS! Mon.-Fri., 5-7pm participate. 272-0945
Mug of Stroh's or Pabst, just 25• 
the observ.-.erL..________ Tuesday, Septam bar 5, 1978
6 


1980 Winter Olympics' costs soar 
LAKE PLACID, NY (API -This mountain village with one traffic light started out to stage a "human-sized Olympics." Now, with the games just 18 months away, the town is finding the project many times more expensive and more complicated than it imagined. 
Althouth one motto of the games is "Olympics in Perspective," and although Lake Placid has experi­ence at these things--it was host to the 1932 Winter Olympics--the overall costs have zoomed from initial projections of $80 million to nearly $150 million. . . 
They could go to $200 mllhon before the games start Feb. 13 llJXO. 
When the village was awarded the games in I 474, organizers pl_edg~d a "no frills" Winter Olympics, m l'O•IIrast to other recent extrava­gan;.as. 
Now the Rev. J. Bernard Fell, executive director of the Lake Placid Olympic Organizing Com­mittee. is seeking more federal money. ·'There should be no
r 
scrimping," he says. 
But "scrimping" is just one issue. Virtually every project is over budget. Some are four months off schedule. And the problems are many: 
--Some simple plans have grown elaborate. Minor changes in the 1932 Olympic Arena were sought at first; now organizers want a new roof. 
--General building costs are up. The construction budget could double, from $70 million to $140 million. 
--The bureaucracy of staging the games has grown. Administrative costs could be $60 million--five times what was predicted at first. 
--Transportation is a problem. Lawsuits have delaved widening the two-lane main road into Lake Placid. And there is a general plan--but few details--for busing 55,000 spectators a day around town. 
--It will be January before organi­zers finish a plan to get 440,000 tickets to the general public, Another 110,000 will go to donors. 
--And things could get worse. An early winter could shorten the construction season and throw a key building project, the ski jumps, so far off schedule that the games themselves might be jeopardized. 

It seems unlikely, of course, that Olympic organizers, or the state and federal governments, which have already committed them­selves more than $70 million, would let anything jettison the 1980 Winter Olympics. 
The governments pay much of the cost for ·building and renovating facilities. Private contributions pay administrative costs. So far, the organizers, primarily local business figures and sports enthusiasts, still predict that they will find the money they need. 
But Vernon Lamb, one of the host of local figures who worked for years to bring the Olympics back to Lake Placid, is uncomfortable. 
"There's just a lot of little problems creeping in," he saie. 
One obvious problem is that the first cost estimates were too opti­mistic. Organizers say the single biggest reason is the soaring cost of labor ·and materials for construe­tion. 
When construction began, as many as 20 companies would bid for a contract. Most were right on or slightly below budget. Now, partly because of an upswing in construction activity elsewhere, some projects attract no more than one bid. And most are well over budget. 
Then there are special problems. Take the ski jumps. Two concrete towers jut out of an Adirondack hillside, but work has been virtu­ally halted since the spring, when the steelwork contractor went bankrupt. 
Dominion Bridge Co. of Montreal was brought in to start building "in-runs"--the sloping extensions down which skiers speed. But this work is done in the open. and a bad autumn or early winter would hurt. And with the project so far off schedule, workers will be earning plenty of overtime in any event. So federal officials say the projected cost has risen from S2.8 million to $4.5 million. Organizers find the jumps es­
. . . e .? e g s ~ 
.i~Th~,~~~. I ·1 
PLUS 
for a limited 
time a

The Tl Programma­ble 57 is a powerful SS."" rebate slide rule calculator with the purchase with statistics and de­ofaTI-57. cision making capabil­ities to help solve repeti-. tive problems ... quickly and 1 , accurately. • 
Powerful program memory stores 50 fully-merged steps for up to 150 keystrokes_. Computer-~ ike func­tions include editing, branchtng, subroutmes. and more. Slide rule capabilities include functions of x, as well as log, trig, and statistical fun~tions. _Comes complete with an easy~to-follo~ l~arnt~g gutde. 
With its new. low pnce and l1mtted t1me $5.00 re­bate the Tl Programmable 57 offers an unsurpassedvalu~. Act now to take advantage of this outstand­ing offer. 
---~--------------, 
Use this coupon to obtain your $5.00 rebate: I 
Texas Instruments will rebate $5.00 ol your origmal Tl-57 purchase price when you: 
I

(1) Return this completed coupon .. including serial number. (2) along w1th your completed Tl-57 customer inIormation card (packed mbox). and (3) a dated copy I ol proof ol your purchase. verifying purchase between August 15 and October 31, t978 Your coupon. customer Information card. and dated copy of proof of pur­I chase must be postmarked on or before November 7, 1978 to qualify lor this special oHer. I 
Send to: 
I I

Tl-57 Rebate OHer, P.O. Box53,lubbock, Texas 79408 
I I 

Name_ ..----------­
I 

Address _ 
-----------~-­

I City ---------~--I 
State_________Zip ____, 
Tl-57 SERIAL NUMBER 
•1

(from back of calculator) Piaase allow '30 days for delivefy. Offer void lfhere P~ by law. Offer good in I
U.S.only.. • • I. 

Let a TI calculator help you make more efficient use of your time. This semester... and for years to come. 


Now, more affordable 
• 0 ' E r ' 
-~ """,""·~ 
J.)ru...s '"'""'".,.'"'ra • 

$70.0 
Do business and financial classwork quickly with this powerful calculator. 
For business administration, financial analy­sis and planning, real estate manage~en~. investment analysis, and more. The MBA s fi­nancial functions include net present value and internal rate of return for variable cash flows. Payment, present and future value, number of periods for annuities. Also, days between dates, and direct solution of yield for 
bonds and mortgages. 

,. Statistical functions include mean, variance, and standard deviation at the touch of a key. Built-in linear regression. 
Simple programmabil­ity lets the MBA remem­ber a sequence of up to 32 keystrokes. 
The MBA comes with a valuable book, Calcula­~~~ tor Analysis for Business and Finance. Shows you how to apply the power of your MBA to business and financial 
decision making. ~ 
At its new, low price, the MBA presents an exceptional value to the business student. See it today. 
·u.s. suggested reta~ price. 

• 
' TEXAS lNSTRUM ENTS 
• O PO ATE D 
INC R R 
~ 
CO!i7811as~~ 

L ----------~ ._Jl..-~---=-----.:..._------~,:":.:":~:":.:":.,.:":~:":~:":.:":.:'".:":.~,:':.:-:"..:":_.•":•":,.,.;7,..:-;_.~
•..,..: ./"•'"
-------. I • -1 • ' ., • ._ • '~ •• , _. • ....,. .... ,·,· .....~ 
,....... "· . -~ ~ ....... , .. ~ ..1M ........ ·, ........,, .. ~,"fit .........., .......... 4...·• ............ ,.._.. ,..J........ ............ f ··'·"•' ,,_.,..,.............. -~ • . -·~ ... '\ IJti' ~
• "".'!' ...... '.t' -;, -. .c • -' ~.i. • • l. • · ••or: \ -.~ ..-~ ; " ~ • • • ,­
pecially worrisome because the International Olympic Committee requires all facilities to be used in Olympic level competition -~efo~e the games. Such a competJtton IS slated for the jumps late this December, and they must be done then. 
The cost overruns were admitted publicly in August, when th_e organizing committee announced 1t would need $18 to $20 million more from the federal government-­above the $58 million appropriated. 
New York State, which has com-­mittted S12 million to improving ski trails at Whiteface Mountain and refrigerating the bobsled run at Mount Van Hoavenberg, is likely to be asked for another $7 million or more. 
Olympic officials have yet to itemize which projects need extra money, but the federal Economic Development Administration, which funnels federal funds to the Olympics, has made its estimates public. 
It says construction, once pegged at $70 million and now estimated at $110 million, could climb to $140 million. It adds that the adminis­trative costs could be even more troublesome. 
Bishop involved 
in sex scandal 
ATHENS, Greece lAP] -A sex scandal involving color photo­graphs showing a 66-year-old greek Orthodox bishop with an unidentified woman has shaken the church here. The bishop claims the pictures are forgeries but a govern­ment investigation says otherwise. 
Joannis Varvitsiotis, the govern­ment minister of education and religion, turned the pictures over to church officials and told the press, "l consider it my duty to ~rotect the standing of the church." 
The case has made headlines here, aroused the bishop's parish in a drive to oust him and caused turmoil within the church hier­archy. 
At the root of the scandal are color photographs purportedly showing black-bearded Bishop Stylianos of Preveza, in western Greece, having sex with an unidentified woman. Church officials said the woman in the pictures apparently is a priest's wife or the wife of a Preveza notable whose identity is being protected. 
The bishop claims the pictures are a "forgery, blackmail, a communist plot to underminemyposition." He said they were forged by his former chaffeur, also a priest, demanding the equivalent of $6000 in black­mail. 
A church spokesman said an investigation by the State Criminal Research Department "proved be­yond doubt that the pictures are genuine." 
The spokesman said Varvitsiotis turned the pictures over to Arch­bishop Serapheim after they were certified as genuine. 
Varvitsiotis did not say how he got the pictures. 
The archbishop showed them to the Holy Synod, the 12-member governing . body of which Bishop Stylianos was then a member. 
"There were cries of horror from the bishops," the spokesman said. 
Greek bishops are forbidden to marry and vowed to eternal celi­bacy. Junior priests may marry and have children, but if they do, they cannot rise in rank. 
Church officials said the bishop will ultimately go before a church tribunal and be defrocked if found guilty. The religious charge against him is "scandalizing the conscience of the Clv:istian faith­ful." 
The bi'ihop gives :a polticial ex­
!'uta;!=hetois:!':en::~se':: 
reacbed his-position during tbe 
_ period of military didat«­
1967 74
ship ,in Greece by atl...-.ily·, .-.p­
~ 

._ ...... ~a 111!1 ~··~.~·· ........ ~i&.,_.~....-. 
• .-~ 
• 

~­
.--------------------­
Tuesday, September 5, 1971 
Intercom installed 1n• locker rooms 
--------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
by Frank LaGrotta 
As a result of a planned increase in security measures at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, an intercom­security system has been installed in the women's locker rooms at the Rockne Memorial Building and the ACC. The new facilities will provide a means of communication between the locker rooms and the building's security personnel and are seen as protection against intrusion and possible attack. 
A buzzer device was installed at the ACC with connections in the issue room and the office of John Plouff, ACC managing director. "Should a girl require assistance, she could press a button and both myself and the issue room atten­dants would be notified," Plouff said. 
'9t'g a ~rro.e boost ill buiQdiltq gecu/{it4.· 
"This is not only a means of preventing attack. It also protects the girls against accidental intru­sions, which are quite possible on football weekends when we have visitors at the ACC." 
The system at the Rockne Memorial is slightly different in 
Freshman Registers arrive 
Freshmen Registers will be dis­tributed Wednesday and Thursday in the Student Union offices from 9-10:30 a.m. and from 3-5 p.m. 
that an actual inte:-com has been According to Assistant Provost, Sr. installed allowing women in the Miriam Jones, · the study was locker room to speak with, the suggested by the Committee to 
attendants on duty. Evaluate Co-Education at Notre 
"It's a great idea," commented Dame. "They asked us to take a Rockne Supervisor Ed Kazmierzak. look, so Dean R()emer initiated this "Actually, we've been considering audit out of which came a very 
installing somethin~ like this for thorough study of security at Notre quite some time. It's a real boost in Dame." , building security." · Sr. Jones, who has personally 
The recent measures are a result inspected the system at the Rockne of a study of Notre Dame's security Memorial, is vety satisfied with the policy conducted by Security Audit measures taken. Incorporated, an independent firm "It's better than what Security 
based in Olympic Falls, IL. Audit Incorporated suggested," 
Minority service office 

she pointed out. "It's a real 
improvement in security measures. 
I haven't yet seen the system at the 
ACC, but I understand it is just as 
effective." 
According to Plouff, the entire system was installed by Notre Dame maintenance workers making costs minimal. ''All we had to pay for was the actual equipment involved," Plouff said. 
"The whole system," Sr. Jones 
said, "is really a tribute to the 
people who went to such extremes 
in such a short period of time." 
Blackwell named as director 
by Alleen Lavin Staff Reporter 
A new member of the Notre Dame community, Edward Blackwell, has 
been  appointed  as  Director  of  
Minority Student Aff airs.  
This  position  was  designed  to  

meet the needs of minority stu­dents in all areas_and, according to the job description approved last March, Blackwell will be respon­sible for providing academic, social and career counseling to the stu­dents. 
His duties also include assisting in fund-raising endeavors, maintain­ing records and collecting data pertinent to minority students, and working with the Recruitment Of­fice to increase graduate and undergraduate minority enroll­ment. 
This new office will insure the rights of minority students and will seek to improve the quality of life and services offered by the Univer­sity. 
Blackwell explained his present goals, "I want to define what would be needed in terms of establishing what is necessary to improve minority life on campus." 
He will be responsible for improv­ing the University's knowledge and awareness of the needs of minority students. He will maintain a 
constant communication  with  the  
offices  of  Admissions,  Financial  
Aid and Registrar.  

At this time, Blackwell is talking to as many people as possible in an effort to acquaint himself with the .present standing of minority stu­dents on campus. 
"I will develop a survey that will address itself to the problem," Blackwell stated. 


AIR FORCE ALWAYS NEEDS 
DOCTORS & NURSES 
Getting a degree in medicine or nursing can be expensive ••• ,;ra_y expensive. Air Force ROTC scholarships make the medical field a practicable consideration for qualified students. Consider the following: 
}{ED! CINE NURSING 

'
* 
3 and 2-year pre-med scholarships * 2-year scholarships. 

which also guarantee 4-year Health * Full tuition plus books and misc. Professions Scholarships. fees. 

* 
Full tuition plus book and misc. * $100 subsistence each month. fees. f

* 
$100 subsistence each month; $400 in medical school. 


To learn if you qualify, contact Capt. Davis at 6634. 

ROTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 

dropping courses approval from the dean. 
........................................................................................................._________________________.. 



i .LEE'S B.B.Q. i -~ 
•
i Tues. Special i 
• r------------------------------------, •
i 1 as~ off i 
t I t 
t I t : 1 s1so Pitchers of Miller & Miller Lite : t I t t I ( • t 
: 1 With cou,_,.) .• 
t I I t 
: ~--------------------------------------: 
: Spm-Midnight . : •· • 
.: • 
He will design the survey accor­ding to the information he obtains through communicating with the administration as well as the students. 
Blackwell also intends to use the office in an indirect way to help minority students. "I want to be a support for other resources on campus available to the students; in other words, to supplement services already in existence." 
The duties of the office are not confined to the University. The job description explains that Blackwell will be expected "to institute consortium programs with surroun­ding colleges and universities." 
Presently, Blackwell will continue to research the problems of mino­rity s'udents. 
As with any new office, Blackwell feels it will take time to realize its potential. "We are in an embry­onic stage," Blackwell said. 
I~ 

Course changes end Wednesday 
The Student Government Academic Commission would like to remind students that Wed­nesday is the final deadline for pass-fail grading, adding courses, and without 
micflael &co. Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
mon-wed-fri 8:00-5:30 tues-thur 8:00-8:00 sat 8-5 ¥1 mile east of notre dame · 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 North 
south , 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood 
•

t:...~ ..,.-••••••••••~•••••••••·~·::~.~~.~:~.~~..1~.-·m·•·••'•••'•c•ll•a•rg••-.29-~.-1.00_1_.___,._••.--I .. 
,. . .. .. . .'" . '.. . 
------~~---------------­
., 
· ...· 
Tuesda , Saptam bar 5, 1978 


Self-defense 
class initiated 
Kathy McEntee Staff Reporter 
As part of the effort to increase student awareness of security prob­lems on campus, the Physical

This dum pstar is a remnant of the 
Education Department will sponsor

quad picnic which was held last 
a self-defense class starting Mon­

week. It was apparently inadvar­
day, Sept. 18. 

tantly left on the North quad. 
Residents have begun to com plain Sgt. Joel Wolvos of the South 
because of the horrid smell and the Bend Police Department will con­
natural attraction of creepy-crawly duct the class which will meet each 
things. [photo by Ron Szot] Monday and Wednesday from 6:30 to 8:00 p.m. for three consecutive weeks. The classes are open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
According to Coach Dennis Stark, chairman of the Physical Education Department, the students will learn various methods of surprise retalia­tion to quickly escape an attack . rather than ways to disarm an attacker. 
''Our aim is not to develop karate experts," noted Stark, "but rather to teach students how to protect themselves in case of an attack." 
Assistant Provost, Sr. John Mirian Jones. Dean of Students James Roemer and Stark at­tempted to institute a similar program last year following a few security-related incidents on cam­pus, but "it never got off the ground until too late in the school year," explained Stark. The recommendation of such a program in the recent report by Security Audit Incorporated finally made the idea become a reality, accor­ding to Jones. 
''The basic impetus for the class grew out of student interest," noted Jones, "but the turnout will demonstrate whether there is sus­tained interest or just a case of a 'hot issue.'" 
Stark hopes that people will take advantage of the opportunity and urges any interested students to "drop in and see what the class is all about. " 
Depending on the turnout for this class, additional classes may be scheduled for later this semester or next semester. According to Stark, if enough interest is evident, there may also be the possibility of inclusion of a self-defense class in the regular physical education pro­gram. 
The class is currently slated to be held in the Rockne Memorial but Stark is considering moving the class to a more centralized location. 
Members of student government have urged Stark to move the class to accomodate the North Quad residents who wish to attend. 
I I
·------------------~ 
I I 
I I 
I I
•. I I 
urate figure•? 
• 
Like to meet the public? 

• 
Want to earn extra money? 


EnrOll .n lt,e H6A Block Income Ta• Cours. begtni'W'IQ 10()(1 m your artta -'lQ 18illl 10 l)lt:rp.lltl •IICVtl•l: ;.s,o<lfiiQI you~. your lnends and as a source ot rncome 
JtJb .nlerv~t~ws a... arlable lor best student~ Send lor tr"

... this card will let you call long distance long distance calls from the privacy of your 
.r.lorm•bOn and c1asa schedule today 
Classet t»g•n week ol ~DI 1 1 and w·ll be l"'ftkl .n 4

from your room faster and at less cost than room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot 
any other way. easier and more economical than any other 

~ H&R BLOCK ACOOll

way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long I Z 1508 iJ,shawaka Ave I 
you keep the change. To get your STUDENT South Bend IN 466 1 5 distance call can be a hassle. I PHONE: (211) 289-2471 IBILLING CARD just call 237-8182. Pie..• aend melrH lh!O<mallon about 18x I 
preparellon course I understand there It
I

You either have to call collect (and that costs no obllgollon extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a I ~~ I couple of pounds of change in your pocket. I~~~:... . . St• .~=I 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your @Indiana Bell 1'-""-~~-~~ =~~:,~T~~:~
I I

free STUDENT BILLING CARD ffom Indiana 
I I Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make I I I I 
I I I I I I I I 


1------------------J 


Tuesday, Saptem bar 5, 1978 the observer 9· 






wood challenge: 
Bring the toughest textbook or reading material you own to tonight'sFree Speed Reading Lesson and we'll · show you how to read it faster, with comprehension! 

If you're like most people, you're probably skeptical about our ability to make Speed Reading work for you. 
O.K. Tonight we'd like the opportunity to prove, as we have to millions, that you can read faster with comprehension. 
In fact, we challenge you challenge you to come to tonight's Free Speed Reading Lesson armed with the toughest text­book or reading material you own. 
' 

We'll show you how to read faster, with comprehension. And, remember, we're not using our materials ... books that you may feel are too easy ... we're using yours ... the toughest you can find! 
If you're open minded and want to improve your reading ability, we challenge you ... challenge you to begin tonight, to make reading work for you! 
SCHEDULE OF FREE LESSONS 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 


Make reading work for you! 
ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
. 

Today and Tomorrow 3:30 and 7:30 

10 th8 ObServer --~Tuesday, September 5, 1978 


by Michael Molinelli
White House backs 


GSA investigations 
WASHINGTON (AP] • President simple theft to complicated con­
Carter moved on yesterday to tract rigging and bribery. emphasize that the burgeoning of There have been allegations of the General Services Administra­theft and fraud at GSA self-service tion will go after whatever high stores, where other government officials have been involved in agencies obtain office and other corruption and fraud. supplies. Another probe is aimed 
Carter held a surprise Labor Day at vendors who allegedly supply meeting with Deputy Attorney less goods to the stores than General Benjamin Civiletti and contracts call for and then pay of 
GSA Administrator Jay Solomon, the store managers or their em­just before the president left for ployees to look the other way. Camp David to prepare for the Several large procurement eon­Middle East peace summit. tracts are also under investigation. 
Solomon and Civiletti said Carter Allegations have been made that reaffirmed his support for the GSA contracting officials took probes into allegations of bribery, bribes to give the contracts to a fraud, corruption and theft at the specific company. $5 billion-a-year agency that is the federal government's main land­
OOONESBURY
lord and supply house. 
Civiletti said after the meeting that the investigation will be pur­~ued wherever it leads. 
··No one is exempt from the inve~tigation at all--either inside or ouhide of the government," he sate. 
A White House official who asked not to be named said Carter wanted to signal to possible witnesses in the ~candal that they should impli­cate any high officials who were involved. 
"This thing is getting to the point where some high olicials are in­volved, and some people are uncer­tain whether to name the bigger li~h." the official said. "Some people apparently thought this was all going to go away. and they could keep their mouths shut. Well, it's not going to go away." 
Solomon said he briefed Carter on the last month of activities by the various probes into GSA wrong­doing. Solomon said last week as many as SO people would be indicted in the scandals. 
"We wanted just to apprise him of everything that was going on....no specifics, just in generalities and so he would feel comfortable that we wt·re pursuing the investigation," said Solomon, who was on a hiking trip in the Shenandoah Mountains when the White House called for the meeting. 
"I thing it's very important to have the backing of the White House. I've had it all the time," 
l.e said. rhe allegations under investiga­
!•:)11 by several grand juries, the I;BI. U.S. attorneys across the ~··untry and an internal GSA task torce arc varied. ranging from 
l
r----------------------------------------1 
~NO Tryouts 1-open to all ND and St. mary's studentJ·
SMC 



September 4, 5
THEATRE 


Frosh 'materialistic'
Washington Hall 

,-.;,( 1,q.•: I~ , n· l\, 1( llfl}il~t!' If'. 
H,\ BIU'\ -IO!f\!-.(1\ 
t n·asnq~lv lllittntJaiJ:..;tll · A:-ticl
Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander 

( ·arnpu" llig••st \1'\\ o; SPn i•·•• ('nl!t•gt• trt·"hi1JI•II till~ .\'Pill' dl•'
by Preston Jones 

Ti-!·· i"''' Pill of ~l.ud< nt:< wt1n
111on• inli'1·P~I I'd 111 t•nt.• ring
All Blue Grass and Country and Western Musicians and singers 

1\:IIIT (<l tH• '' .t'r:; ,,I'll •>11 
busi!1P~s antlm<~krng l!lOIH'Y than
who are intcrc!>tcd in performing in the show arc invited 

fi••arH·iall~" t1;1~ rrs••n fJCJnl 40.1
tlwsp of '' •IP('a<iP ''go, a new 
pt•r, Pnt "' !!ltl7 to fJI\.2 p•·n·t>nllast
survey :shows.
L--••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
fall.

Tt1is is th<· 12th annu<tl survpy 
l<'re,;hnJ;IIl. ~ future plan~ »hOI>
,·ondul'led by ttw AIll<' I iran 
a ri;;ing ir.t.,rest in bu:;inpo:s. 6.5
('ourH·rl on l<:tluc·atton with tile 
pCI'l'l'llt llJt>n• studt>nt..: an• in­
as:;i,.;tanc·t· of th•• llnivPrsity of 
lt>t·estert in Plltt>ring tllP hustness
<'alifornia at Los Angeles. 
wor!cl ;iflt>r they leavl' sehoul.
All'xanch•r W. A:;tin, conductor 
More studPnts an· going to
of tlw survt>ys, receivt>d almo~t 
<·oliPge to Parn more money, says
:lOO.I!OO rPsponses fro111 from 548 
Astin. 62. I pt•rcpnt of thP fresh­
l'Olit·~"" and unh·••r,;ities from 
tlJPtl intPrviewPd statt>d lht~
al'ross Uw country. 
reason for· school. 

F'r eshnwn also are going to ,..W'W'W"'II'W'IW'W..,,...,riV......,,...,riV......,"""""""...........,"""......."""""""............"""............"""Ioo".."llll 'colie ge to improve their rpadin g and study skills. "Morp studenb 
tha11 t>ver· say that an importantSHAKEY'S reason fnr going to college is to
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
FAMOUS SUPER SUPPER i111JH'OV<' rea ding and study
Close to Campus sktlls." acl'ording to Astin_5 -7:30 MON -TUES -WED But Astin also discnver<>d thatApartments still auailable the 19~ fr!'shnwn are markedly
Pizza-Chicken· 

defu·i(•nt in several art>as of knowlPdgt>. For !'xample:
·Spaghetti-Salad 2 bedrooms-Completely Furnished 
Only 29.7 percent of '78 fresh­111Pn ran describe their personal
All You Can Eat Complete Kitchen and Di:ning Room 
rights as guaranteed by the Bill of Rights. Only 19_3 percent of the
$280-$300/ month Up to 4 students 
frt>shmpn can use a slide rule. Only 7.8 percent can identifyor 234-6647 classical music by titles and composers. 
by Garry Trudeau 
SVRE!I LAST TI!1E I 
P6(JH? yOU OH, I HAO 70, CAMG 7lJ SCE MISS. YOU HAVE ci.VIs'6e4~ A/.1 NO tOEA WHAT 7}{13/dlY mJM '5TRAN6ERS IN 
7J.IJfT SON6 PR4CTICALL.Y 
CHAN6Ef)MY 
/Jfe. REAll-Y. 
I 





WENT 

To WUAT !AlS HE CR£00" HIS~ LIFE? IHAlt Nn'ER \ 
~~11iCIZEDTHE STAT~ 
.-­

ANOIDU ~a:­
RUSSIAIS lOb '!tARS OLD. 
:. 
. ' • I 
·.·. . ' 


Schools may open; teachers still strike 
[AP] -Classes reopen for the fall in many school districts this week, but in thousands of classrooms the teachers are likely to be absent. 
School strikes are underway in Philadelphia, New Orleans and Pontiac, MI. and in such small districts asRichmond and Marion, IN. More strikes are threatened ­in Cleveland and Dayton, OH, for example, and in Boston and Seattle. Most of the issues involve pay. 
In Philadelphia, with classes scheduled to open Friday for 250,000 students, school officials were to resume negotiating last Tuesday with the striking 21,000­member Philadelphia Federation of Teachers. 
Talks broke off Friday after the old contract expired, and the teachers began picketing the next day. 
In New Orleans, a district serv­ing 91,400 pupils, a strike has been on since school opened last Wed­nesday. Schools have been run­ning with a skeleton crew of administrators, substitutes and a few teachers, but by Friday bus drivers and janitors had joined the strike and only a third as many students as normal were in class. 
Cleveland classes are to open Friday but teachers, due back Thursday, don't want a third straight year without a pay raise, but officials say they can't afford a raise this year because the system has received an emergency $20.7 million loan that requires budget­cutting. Talks are scheduled for today. 
The Dayton Education Associa­tion votes today on whether to strike that city's schools, which serve 37,000 students. School is to open Thursday, with teachers reporting tomorrow. School officials have been blaming a desegregation plan, now in its third year, for the failure of three tax levies in two years. 
In Boston, where classes are to open tomorrow for 69,000 students, contract negotiations are stalled over salary, class size and working conditions, according to Henry Robison, president of the Boston Teachers Union. A strike vote is scheduled today. 
Weekend negotiations failed to produce agreement in Pontiac, Ml, and the school board ordered teachers who have been on strike in 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Morrissey Loan Fund Student Loans $20-$150 1percent interest DUE IN 30 DAYS -1 Day Wait -LaFortune Basement M·F 11:30-12:30. 
ND-SMC Ski Team Organizational Meet­ing Sept. 6, 7:30 p.m. in LaFortune theatre. Newcomers welcome. team members must attend. 
Special Discount to all NO & SMC students on automotive parts. All you need is your ID card. Hottman Bros. Auto Electric, 1101 E. Madison, So. Bend. 
Earn your allowance -sell AVON in your dorm. Call 7819. 
Now accepting students tor studio voice lessons. Master's degree in vocal performance and member of National Association of Teacher's of Singing. 277-2287. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND New Hours: M-F 11:30-12:30. 
FOR RENT 

Furnished room lor rent is country house 8 minutes from campus 277-3604. Garage for rent 2 blocks from campus. 277-3604. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost Saturday August 26 one navy blue flowered zipper case containing two strands of pearl necklace, one pair gold anchor earrings. Keepsake, liberal reward. Vicinity St. Mary's College campus, Notre Dame, Morris Inn and adjacent parking lot or Howard Johnson Restaurant in Roseland or parking lot. Call A. Purcell, 284-5712, or Mrs. J. F. Purcell (219) 923-4238 collect. 
advance of school's opening to 
report to work today or be fired. 
Superintendent Odell Nails delayed 
the start of classes for 21,000 
students from today to Thursday. 
In Seattle, the school board says classes, scheduled for tomorrow will not begin until a contract dispute with teachers is resolved. Mediators aided negotiations are continuing, but even with a settle­ment, !her could be a strike by custodians, gardeners, security officers and food service workers. Like the 4,900-member Seattle Teachers Association, they have no 
contract. 
Thousands flee; monsoon flooding 
rages on 
NEW DELID, India [API India's summer monsoon rains struck with a fury this weekend, swelling rivers over their banks in seven northern states and forcing hundreds of thousands to flee their swamped villages. 
Thousands of persons were un­
accounted for near Calcutta in 
West Bengal, the worst hit state, 
Jyoti Bosu. chief minister of West 
Bengal, denied reports that 15,000 
persons had been washed away 
there, but said, "It is one of the 
greatest disasters." 
Authl,rities confirmed at least 42 
persons drowned or killed by 
collapsing houses in West Bengal, 
where water was reported up to 20 
feet deep. Sixty-three flood-related 
deaths were reported over the 
weekend in the Himalayas near 
Simla. 
Relief officials reported many 
survivors in West Bengal perched 
on housetops and in trees. 
Cholera was reported in the 
state's Midnapore district west of 
Calcutta. The United News of India 
said patients were being treated on 
the roof of the area hospital 
because the ground floor was under 
water. 
The monsoon has killed more 
than 800 and affected 1.8 million in 
some way since it started in June. 
About 10,000 homes have been 
reported destroyed. 
Police and army units evacuated 
tens of thousands of residents from 
low-lying areas of the national 


With _over 7DD p~ople participating in Sunday's Student Union lottery, tickets for the up,com1ng Yes concert appear to be in greater demand than for any previous concert at the A C C. 
capital district of old and new Delhi, both threatened bY, the fast-rising Yamuna River. The river has flooded dozens of villages. in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh states to the north. 
Indian air force helicopters were operating in Haryana, west of Uttar Pradesh, and other states, drop­ping food and supplies to stranded villagers. In Orissa state, on the Bay of Bengal, about 750 marooned communities are dependent on the airdrops, the United News of India said. 
Delhi municipal officials have asked about 200,000 refugees to shift to relief camps set up in schools and stadiums in the capital area. Many camps provide tents and drinking water but lack elec­tricity and basic sanitation facili­ties. 
Irrigation minister S.S. Barnala, making a tour of stricken parts of the capital, said flooding would reach a critical stage today. 
"It's much worse than last year," Barnala told The Associated Press. "Large areas are being evacuated." 


Helicopter crashes; kills seven at festival 
DERRY, Pa. [AP]-A helicopter dropping pingpong balls with prize numbers crashed into a crowd at a Labor Day church festival killing seven persons, authorities said. 
A hospital spokeswoman said 19 people were injured and 13 of them were admitted for treatment. 
The craft. which apparently had engine trouble, plunged into a concession stand at the parking lot of St. Joseph's Catholic Church in this Westmoreland County borough, about SO miles east of Pittsburgh. 
Eyewitnesses described a scene of blood and severed bodies after the craft and its whirling blade, fell to the ground. 
"There were bodies everywhere. 
One of them was just half a man," said Chuck Kist, 28, a visitor from Conneaut, Ohio. 
Although police first said it appeared the pilot struck a utility pole on an approach that was too low. Federal Aviation Administra­tion investigator Dave Kopuntz said later the pilot said engine trouble may have been the cause of the crash. 
The pilot indicated the possibility that the engine might have failed. She said she did attempt to land.·· he said. 
Kountz said the blade tips of the three-seat helicopter were traveling at 350 to 400 mph. 
State police · identified the helicopter pilot as Pam Nelson of West Mifflin in Allegheny County. Westmoreland County Coroner Leo Bacha said she carried two passengers--Leo Allison and his 12-year-old daughter, Mary Beth. None of the helicopter occupants was injured. 

WANTED  Corby's needs part time help MON-SAT 9 a.m. to 12 a.m. Call 233-0438-Ask tor Pete.  Desperately need 3 GA Pitt tickets. Sandy 8136  Call  @Help wanted: Temporary part-time or; i campus. $3.00 hr. Call Frank Oeele at : 282-2511 between 6 and 7 today. ·  
Needed: 2 Michigan GA tickets. Will pay$$$ · Mike 1478. Need 2 Missouri Tix. Call Jerry 8446. -------­·-·---­I desperately need 4-6 GA tickets lor Purdue game. Please help! Call Me 6551.  2 GA tickets to any home game. Call Todd 1211. Need 10 tix for Missouri &/or Mich games. Call Lynch 232-0550 before 9 p.m. WANTED: 2 or 4 Michrgan tickets. Call 8106.  Desperately need many tickets lor the PURDUE game. Call Paul at 1403. I need tickets (3) any game other than Miami. 1535. BIG BUCKS Need 2 Student or GA tix to Missouri game. Call Steve at 1857. I need 3 GA Michigan tickets' Name your  FOR SALE 1974 Hornet Hatchbac·k X 1 owner, cle.: good basic transportation, low price 287-9341. PERSONALS  
HELPPP! Need GA's & students for Michigan & Pitt. $$$ Mick -1763 $$$ Wanted -1 Purdue ticket. Will trade lor ANY other game ticket-plus pay. Call Kathleen H. 4954. Wanted: 2-4 GA tix lor Purdue. Please help' Call Laura at 6731.  Need 2 GA tickets for Missouri -Call Sue 7409. WANTED: Four GA Michigan game -call collect 712-732-2842. Filthy rich Aunt is now preparing to make annual pilgrimmage to Notre Dame football game. Requires 1 GA Pitt ticket.  price' Pat 1020. WANTED: 2or 4 Michigan tickets. CAll Bob 289-1412. Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets tor Purdue -Call Dan 8252. Need two GA tickets tor Missouri game. Call Mike 232-0550.  I would be grateful to anyone who can sell me tickets to the Purdue football game. I'II listen to any otter. so call me. I'm Bob. and can be reached by phone at 1780. Seen ··Animal House?'· Remember the toga party? The 911 Club does r Stay tuned ... Togar Toga' Toga1  
Desparately need 6 tix lor Michigan. CAll Mike 1083.  Money no object'  Call Scoop  at 1771.  Need 2 student or GA tix tor Missouri  YES is God 1  
WANTED: Missourri tickets. Please, please, please, call Barb at 7951.  Cutesy. Scoop' WANTED: Missouri tix-up to 6needed. Call Mike 7838.  game. CAll John 1996. Need 1 GA Missouri ticket · Call Mary -4359.  You know. typist'  Mardi Nevin is one  Heluva  
Need 2 GA football tickets tor Missouri  Hi Tracy & Cathy,  
and/or Michigan. CAll Mike at 7838. WANTED: Tickets to Missouri game. Student or GA. Will pay$$$. Call Mark, 1419. Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay big bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8150. Mom and Dad need 2 GA tix tor Purdue.' $$$ Brian 8671. I am looking for several intelligent  Desperately need Michigan tixs. Will pay big $$. Call Bill 289-4796. Wanted: GA football tickets lor Purdue game. Call 272-8527 evenings. WANTED: Purdue tickets. Barb 7953. Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets for Purdue. Call Amy 4-1-4677. I need 6 Pitt tickets now. Tony 1068.  WANTEED: Tickets to Missouri game. Student or GA. Will pay$$$. Call Mark, 1419. Need 1ticket GA or Student lor Missouri. Please call Betsy -4366. Need GA tix lor any home football game. Will pay$$ of course. Call Joe 1478. I need 2 tickets to the Michigan game. 1 know it's just adream. but someone must have some tickets tor my Mom and Dad to  Hope you're havtn9 a great r despite the fact we re all doo; anyway. Drop by the 911 Club soon s P.S. Is your room done? Need 2 GA tlx for Missouri -Call lit Attention SMC Reporters -Meeti11g 6 30 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 7. in Sl­oltice -Basement of Regina Sou!fl beneath the language department. ;>,,: new reporters welcome too.  
people, of any age, who enjoy a modicum· of sell-confidence and who would like to earn a lot of money honestly. The position requires some sales. though in a very limited way. There is no obnoxious or anti-social work involved. You do not need acar or money tor you will earn both working with this company--(Which hap­pens to be the ta~test-growing company  WANTED: Any number of Missouri tickets. Will sing Missouri light song on request. Mark -288-9988. Will pay ANY PRICE for 2-4 Michi­gan tickets. Grill-234-2329. Need two GA tickets tor Missouri. Call 1842.  user Call Jerry 1398. Wanted: Four tickets to Michigan game. Call 277-2944 alter 6 p.m. Bartender. waitress, dishwasher, piua maker. supply-man. positions open. ND-SMC students welcome, tull & part time employment, hourly pay -minimum  SMITH & CD., superb entertainment a N D rates, is now available! 289-8625 alter 4. Brian. Remember the Bull Moose party r11 BYZANTINE CATHOLICS, as well as any others interested in learning more about Byzantine Christian life, should sign the  
of its kind in tr, world.(  You may also  wage plus.  Apply in person -NICOLA's  list on the secretary's desk In the Campus  
have more t•·, than you have had in a long time  Need 2GA/Student tickets tor parents tor Missouri game. Call Marsha 4826.  RESTAURANT, 809 N. Close to campus.  Michigan St.  - Ministry Office (Memorial Library lobby) before September 8. ~·  

----------------~----------------~------------------------~ 
""""'' 
12 the observer Tuud.ay, S.ptem ber 5, 1971 
Talented football brothers aid Irish 
by Craig Chv.J Sports Writer 
It hardly seems appropriate to call 

a 6-foot-5, 262-pounder a "little 
brother", but Tim Huffman, 
younger brother of Notr~ Dame 
All-America center Dave Huffman, 
is one of four little brothers on this 
year's Irish squad. In addition to 
the Huffmans, Pete and Phil John­
son, Jim and Dan Stone, and Dick 
and Mike Boushka will all be 
wearing the green and gold of the 
Irish this fall. 
With the break-up of the fabled Browner brothers, the Huffmans take over as Notre Dame's most famous brother combination, a role which both Dave and Tim relish. 
"To me, having Tim here with mt· is the greatest thing in the world." said Dave. "It's a feeling of greal personal satisfaction." 
U1ck Boushka, a sophomore cor­nerback for the Irish, echoed similiar sentiments. "It's a great feeling to have your brother on the same team." 
While the Huffmans are both on the offensive line, Mike Boushka is a freshman wide receiver, which means he is called upon to line up opposite his brother frequently during practice. "When Mike lines up against me, I have to forget that he's my brother," says Dick. "It's just like going up against any other player." 
All of the brother combinations stressed the importance of letting the younger brother make his own decision. "When I talked to Tim it was just like recruiting anyone else," remembers Dave Huffman. "I just told the truth -that's the most important thing." 
Sophomore halfback Jim Stone recalls his advice for younger brother Dan. "I told him what I liked and didn't like, but I left the decision up to him. I didn't like it when people pressured me when I 
was  being  ~ited,  so  I didn't  
want to bother him."  
Dick  Boushka  had  a  similiar  

attitude toward Mike. ''I didn't like people telling me which school to go to, so I let Mike make his own decision. Now I try to help him out, especially with classes. When I started last year, I was pretty green, so it's a little bit easier for 
Mike." 
Although both Dave and Tim Huffman play on the offensive line, Dave hasn't been able to pass along many secrets that helped make him an All-American. "AI~ though the basics are the same~ guard and center are two differen• positions," Dave pointed out. 
"I've learned more about hold~ ing in the last year than in the rest of my life," Tim added. 
I 
While Tim Huffman opted to join 
his brother at Notre Dame, another 
Huffman, Mike, enrolled at Arkan­
sas to play football. "Just like 
Dave and I, Mike made his own 
decision as to where to go," says 
Tim. "Most people don't realize it, 
but Arkansas has one of the top 
pre-med programs in the country." 
Being two years apart, Dave and Tim never played together while in high school. "Last year was the ftrst time we'd ever been in a locker room together," said Dave, "and it was an unbelievable feeling. I had always watched Tim play through the years, and it was really something to be playing together with htm on the offensive line. 
"Mike and I had discussed playing together in college, but he picked Arkansas because it satis­fied his personal needs and wants. Tim and I felt that Notre Dame was the best place for us." 
"Before Dave was accepted at Notre Dame, none of us really knew how good we were,"added Tim. "I mean, we knew that we could beat up 160 pound defensive linemen, but we didn't know how we'd do against 270 pound defensive line­
man.'' 
But fortunately for Notre Dame fans, the Huffmans have proved that they <;an more than hold their own against those 270 pound defensive linemen. 


Cowboys crush Jones-less Colts 
DALLAS [API -Dallas quarter­back Roger Staubach winged four touchdown passes, including a en-yard pass play to slippery Tony Dorsett, Monday night as the world champion Cowboys crushed the punchless Baltimore Colts 38-0 in the National Football League opener for both clubs. 
Staubach completed his last 11 passes and finished the night with 16 of 22 for 280 yards. 
Dorsett. the NFL's offensive rookie of the year last season, rushed IS times for 147 yards and caught three passes for 107 yards through the stunned Colt ''Sack Pack." 
The Cowboys rolled up their 
econd largest offensive total in the 
lub's history, 587 yards. 

~ 
t After a slow first quarter in 
Football info 
The Notre Dame Athletic Depart­
ment has announced that the 
starting time for the football game 
against the University of Michigan 
will be 12 noon, rather than 
the 1:30 p.m. starting time which 
has been printed on the student 
football tickets. 
Students are also reminded that 
any individual game ticket removed 
from the student tickets booklet 
will not be honored at the gate. All 
ticket stubs should be kept in the 
booklet, and will be removed by the 
ushers at the student gate. 
Sailors meet 
on Wed. 

The Notre Dame Sailing Club want interested sailors and non­sailors to join them for their first fall meeting. This club offers to all its members the opportunity to learn sailing and also to become involved in inter-collegiate compe­tition. The club will meet on Wednesday, September 6, at 6:30 
p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy. Films may also be shown. 
which Baltimore's weapon-less zipped the 91 yards with a convoy offense flubbed two scoring of four blockers. He was so wide chances, Dallas struck for three open he slapped hands with two 
touchdowns in the last eight teammates before crossing the goal minutes of the second quarter in line. the nationally televised rout. An 8-yard Staubach pass to Billy 
Baltimore, the defending Ameri­Joe DuPree gave the Cowboys a can Conference Eastern Divisipn 21-0 lead before the selout crowd of champions, sorely missed injured 65,000 at Texas Stadium. quarterback Bert Jones and run­Stabach rifled a 38-yard touch­ning back Lydell Mitchell, who was down pass to Drew Pearson and 
traded after a feud with manage­tossed a 1-yard TD pass to Jay ment. Saldi in the third quarter before Tony Hill ignited the Cowboys on retiring in favor of Danny White. a 45-yard pass-and-run from Stau­Third-string quarterback Mike bach to set up Doug Dennison's Kirkland, starting his first NFL 1-yard scoring plunge. regular-season game, was sacked 
The Cowboys scored again in four times i!1 the first half as ·the less than three minutes when Dallas "Doomsday Defense" held Dorsett caught a tipped pass, the Colts to a minus-6 yards dodged three Colt tacklers and passing. 
Campus sport shorts 
Ski team has first meeting 
While most students are still enjoying the sun, the Notre Dame Racing team is already making plans for another excellent year of skiing. 
The first meeting for the team will be held this Wednesday, September 6, in the LaFortune Theatre, begilming at 7:30. topics of discussion will be fund-raising, Christmas vacation training plans, and the season schedule. This meeting is mandatory for all old members, as well as interested newcomers. 
The Irish are defending regional champions and are looking forward to another great year. Captains for the year are Muggs D' Aquila and Ben Powers. For more information call either 234-1966 or 272-4490. 
Attention 
Irish Swimmers 
Any students interested in join­ing the Notre Dame swim team are urged to attend an organizational meeting on Wednesday, Septem­ber 6, in the foyer of the Rockne Memorial Building (second floor). Freshmen should report at 4:30 p.m., followed by the upperclass­men at 5 p.m. 
Sports writers 
needed now 
for Observer 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in writing sports for The Observer, at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, this Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. 

BALTIMORE (AP] -Scott Mc­
Gregor retired 23 consecutive bat­
ters after Jim Rice slugged a 
three-run homer -his 38th -in the 
first inning Monday night, and Lee 
May's two-run sixth-inning double 
put Baltimore ahead to stay to lead 
the Orioles to a 5-3 victory over the 
Red Sox. 
The loss reduced Boston's Amer­
ican League East Division lead to 
five games over the New York 
Yankees, who split a double-header 
with the Detroit Tigers. 
In Baltimore's seventh, Boston1 pitcher Dennis Eckersley, 16-6, knocked down the Orioles' Larry Harlow after a play at home and left the game with an injured elbow. Harlow was ejected after an umpire tried to restrain him from going after the pitcher. 
Don Stanhouse relieved McGre­gor, 13-12, with two out in the Boston ninth and picked up his 20th save. 



Enter now for ND Open 
Notre Dame golt coach Noel 
O'Sullivan announced that entries are now being accepted for the Notre Dame Open. Any Notre 
Dame student or faculty member is eligible to compete in the tourna­ment the first round will be played on the Burke Memorial Course September 10-13. The final round is slated for September 16-17. Medallions will be awarded to the top three finishers. Registration, which is being held in the Rockne Memorial Pro shop, ends Septem­ber 8. 
NEW YORK (AP] -Ron Guidry 
scattered five hits and became the 
first 20-game winner in the majors 
as the New York Yankees scored 
eight runs in the seventh inning 
and trounced the Detroit Tigers 9-1 
Monday in the opener of a Labor 
Day doubleheader. 

The Tigers won the second game 
5-4 when pinch-hitter John Woc­
kenfuss doubled with one out in the 
eighth inning and scored the 
tie-breaking run when right fielder 
Gary Thomasson misplayed Mark 
Wagner's two-out line drive for an 
error. 

Guidry, who has lost twice, 
~alked ~hree ~nd struck out eight 
m postmg hts fifth consecutive 
triumph just five days after he had 
to leave a game when cracked on 
the left ankle by a bat that flew out 
of the hands of Baltimore's Ken 
Singleton. 

Rice chases elusive mark 
BOSTON [AP] -With perennial 
American League batting cham­
pion Rod Carew of the Minnesota 
Twins still ripping hits, the coveted 
Triple Crown may elude Jim Rice 
this year. 

However, the Boston Red Sox 
slugger is closing in on a little 
known, but even more elusive 
mark. 

Way back in 1937, Joltin' Joe 
DiMaggio ofthe New York Yankees 
slugged his way to 418 total bases 
en route to the Hall of Fame. 
DiMaggio never again was able to 
reach 400 total bases. 

Neither has any other American 
League hitter since. Two National 
League players have done it -Stan 
Musial in 1944 and Hank Aaron in 
1959. 

Going into Monday night's game 
at Baltimore, Rice had 349 total 
bases -with 27 games remaining. 
He leads the major leagues with 37 
homers and 119 runs batted in. 

Batting .330, he trailed only 
Carew, at .340, in the AL. 

''I'm not even thinking of the 
Triple Crown," Rice said Sunday 
afte_r a homer and two singles 
agamst Oakland. "If it comes, it 
comes. Rod Carew will be awfully 
tough to catch for the batting title. 
"However, I would like to get 400 total bases. That would be something. But I don't want to even know how many I have right now. I'll look at the statistics at the end of the season." 
Although Rice figures to have a good shot at 400 total bases the~e's no way he'll approach th~ maJor league record. That's a whopping 457, set by the immortal Babe Ruth in 1921. 
r 
~ 



