-~---~-----------~--­

server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 95 
Friday, March 3, 1978 

Candidates discuss security,course evaluations 
by Peggy McGuire Senten: Staff Reporter 
Revision in Notre Dame Security forces was the main topic of discussion at last night's one-and-a half hour public forum of Student Body President/Student Body Vice-President candidates. 
Candidates Andy McKenna and Mike Roohan, Bruce Blanco and Carey Ewing, and Mike Schlageter and Jayne Rizzo responded to a wide variety of questions, including a proposed course evaluation book­let, a Third World Development Conference, the installation of lights on the Stepan Center basket­ball courts, and a possible Career Development Center. 
J.P. Russell, Hall Presidents' Council Chairman, moderated the event which was held in the Dillon Hall basement. Candidates gave brief remarks before and after the open discussion. Approximately 70 students attended the forum. 
Responses from the candidates on the security issue varied. The Schlageter-Rizzo platform ad­vocates the formation of a security advisory board composed of stu­dents, administrators, and security personnel. Schlageter said that this board would be kept small and "workable." He favors leaving one position open for an off-campus student, "preferably a female." 
"All off-campus students face ilie problems of burglary and break-in," he explained, "but a female faces that added fear of rape which no male could under­stand. A female off-campus stu­dent would be able to cover all of the worries the off-campus stu­dents face." 
McKenna said that Security ''"will have to become more profes­sionalized." Roohan, his running mate, claimed that "Security is no1 a sharp operation; they're not at all on the ball, Some basic changes have got to occur." 
"We would not bring any new recommendations to the admin­istration," McKenna continued. "They already have enough pro­posals before them. We would simply demand that they act upon recommendations which are al­ready there." 
Blanco stated that he and Ewing would wait for results from the consulting firm presently evaluat­ing Security before suggesting ar:v changes. 
"We don't feel that we can do a better job than a professionai·firm which has spent six weeks studying the situation," he said. "We would wait for the firm to go in fron 
of the Board of Trustees with their proposal. Then, we would make sure their report is made public and would advocate any recommend­ations they might have." 
The resurrection of a course evaluation booklet, a topic covered at Wednesday night's forum, was again discussed. 
Rizzo said that she and Schlag­eter researched the possibility of a booklet and learned that the Scho­lastic plans to publish one this spring. "We don't see any need to include on our platform anything which has already been done," she added. 
McKenna said that the course­evaluation booklet he suggests differs from the upcoming Scholas­tic publication. ''We would like to see a booklet modeled after one published in 1970 by Scholastic," he stated. "The 1970 booklet was the largest ever put out by Scholas­tic. It included descriptions of St. Mary's courses and comments 

NY Times links Trustee Hellmuth to illegal CIA activities in 60s 
bJ Jal·k Pi7.Zolato Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Trustee Paul F. Hellmuth acted as a CIA contact during the early 1960's and aided the intelligence agency in an illegal 
scheme to channel funds to five 
international youth groups. accord­
ing to the New York Times. 
In an article dated Feb. 16. 1967, the Times reported that the five youth organizations received CIA funds in the guise of grants from three American foundations. A­mong the youth groups involved were: the National Student Assoc­iation in Washington D.C.; the Independent Research Service of New York; and the United States Youth Council of New York. 
The funds, the Times noted, were to be used in each of the organiza­tions international programs, thereby giving the CIA access to foreign students·and other sources of information. 
One of the foundations identified as a CIA front by the Tuneswas the Independence Foundation of Bos­ton. Hellmuth was a trustee of the foundation when, between 1962 and 1965, it gave more than $250,000 to the National Student Association (NSA), an organization which presently has 500 member groups on college campuses across the United States. 
Officers of the NSA admitted, the Times said, that they had received secret funds from the CIA and reported that Hellmuth served as ore of their contacts with the intelligence agency. When contact­ed by thl! Obst>rver, Hellmuth denied ever having worked for the government. 
In addition to the NSA, the Independence Foundation also funded the Independent Research Service, an organization which, according to the Times, ''has existed almost solely to finance the sending of delegations of Ameri-· can students and intellectuals to Communist-sponsored interna­tional youth festivals." 
Another toundatton not assoctatcd with the youth organization fund· ing scheme, but mentioned by the Times as having CIA connections, vas the J. Frederick Brown Found­
tion of Boston. The foundation untributed mainly to a New York-­based women's group called the Committee of Correspondence, which worked closely with women's groups in foreign countries. Hell­muth was a trustee of the J. Frederick Brown Foundation at the time. 
Operation Merrimack The Observer reported earlier that, according to John Marks, director of CIA projects for the Center for National Security Stud­ies, Hellmuth had acted as presid­ent and director of a CIA front organization engaged in illegal domestic spying and surveillance. Hellmuth, Marks said, headed Anderson Security Consultants Inc. (ASC), a CIA owned and operated corporation established in the early 1960's and disbanded in 1974. ASC, Marks added, was discussed at length in a report released in 1976 by the Senate Select Intelli­genct: Committee. The company 
was referred to by its code name "Operation }.1.errtmack," Marks stated. 
The report is quoted by the Associated Press (AP) as saying that "Operation Merrimack" was one of three related projects involv­ing domestic intelligence by the CIA. The operation "was an effort to infiltrate dissident groups in Washington D.C., to obtain ad­vance information about demons­trations against CIA facilities,'' the report said. 
It also explained, according to AP, that the project, "using construc­tion workers and trade-union mem­bers as part-time agents, was gradually expanded to include any information about the plans and attitudes of such groups as the_ Women Strike for Peace, the Washington Peace Center, The Congress of Racial Equality, and the Student Non-Violent Coordinat­ing Committee." 
Hellmuth, who was named to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees in November, 1960, graduated from ND with a B.A. degree and received a Ll.B. degree from Harvard Law School. In 1947 he joined the Boston law firm of Hale and Dorr, one of the largest law firms in New England, and was elected senior managing partner in 1955. 
Hellmuth has been director of 28 businesses and corporations and has also served in the capacity of · president, vice-president, and trea­surer of a number of large firms. He is now retired from Hale and 
. Dorr and lives in Cambridge, MA. 

about professors." 
Maureen Walsh, editor of this year's Scholastic course-evaluation booklet, asked to clarify a few points. "There seemed to be some confusion about the course-eval­qation booklet which will be avail­able on April 10. It will be a comprehensive evaluation of Notre Dame courses." 
In other issues, McKenna de­fended attacks on his proposal for a Third World Development Confer­ence composed of student leaders from across the nation. McKenna said that after speaking with Dr. Charles Wilber, chairman of the economics department, he decided 
that a conference ot this type wuwu be "more fruitful" than a fund­raising drive. 
"In the conference, we would make people more aware of what is going on in Third World nations," he said. "By inviting leaders from across the nation, instead of people from Third World countries, we would keep costs minimal, but also serve our purpose. We would also be also be able to discuss campus­related issues." 
·Blanco expl;iined· his proposal. to install lighting at the Stepan Center basketball courts. "The Rock is congested. 1t is an indoor court, and it is most accessible to South Quad people," he stated. "By installing lights on the Stepan Center courts, North Quad people would have a close place to play basketball.'' 
"Because the Stepan basketball courts are next to the power station, it would be relatively inexpensive to install lighting,'' he added. 
Schlageter explained the Care~r Development clause of his plat­form. "We are calling for a centralized figurehead who would coordinate all guidance materials and could direct students to the 
proper advisors," he said. "Right now, the deans are accessible to a select few. We need a central figure who would coordinate all activities." 
Candidates also answered ques­tions on the topics of co-ed dorms, the pass/fail option, departmental exam scheduling, and LaFortune renovation. 
The next forum will be at 6:30 
p.m. Sunday. R~ssell announced that it will not be in Walsh Hall, as scheduled. . Students should call the Ombudsman office for the announcement of the new location. 


---------~~~-----------~ 
the observer Friday, March 3, 1978 


News Briefs---------.. 
Wabash to run green 
TERRE HAUTE• Ind. -The Wabash River will run green on St. Patrick's Day. City officials granted permission y_esterday !or St. Patrick's Parish here to dump harmless green dye mto the nver as part of the St. Patrick's Day celebration March 17. 

Weather 
Cloudy, windy and cooler through tonight with a chance of snow flurries causing considerable blowing and drifting of snow. Highs in the low to mid 20s. Lows 5 to 10. Clearing and colder tomorrow. Highs in the mid to upper teens. 
On Campus Today-~ 
friday, march 3 
noon 
12:15 
p.m. 

12:15 
p.m. 3 p.m. 3:10, 7, 


9:30p.m. 4 p.m. 5:15p.m. 
7, 8:30p.m. basketball, ihsa sectionals, ace. 
7 p.m. 7 p.m. 7 p.m. 8 p.m. 8 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 9 p.m. 9 p.m. 
saturday, march 4 
12:30 p.m. 1 p.m.. 1, 3:30 
7 p.m. 3 p.m. 
4 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 8 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 
9 p.m. 
sunday, march 5 
1:30 p.m. 3 & 8 p.m. 7 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 10 p.m. 
track meet, nd vs. drake univ. ace fieldhouse. 
alumnae weekend, workshop, lib. aud. 
film, "harlan county," eng. aud. 
discussion, informal talk, lib. aud. part of alumnae weekend. 
mass, monthly mass for the friends of the retarded & l'arche, moreau seminary. 
basketball, ihsa sectionals, ace. 
new keenan revue, sponsored by keenan hall, washington hall. 
nd/smc theatre, eugene o'neill's "a touch of the poet," o'laughlin aud. 
nazz, featuring kevin quigley and mark kasper and the friendly ghosts, basement of Iafortune. 
bengal mission bouts, tickets $1.50 & $2, ace. 
asian film festival, "opium war lords," sponsored by the committee on asian studies, eng. aud. 
organizational meeting. an tostal. 1st floor Iafortune theatre. all invited. 
lecture, "guerilla tactics in the job market," by torr. jackson, sponsored by suac, lib. aud. 
mass, sponsored by the k of c lenten service, dillon chapel, refreshments afterwards, everyone wel­come. 
art exhibit, holly howard and lynda halley, isis g;tllery, old fieldhouse. 
mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. biology travel series, biology in australia, richard williams, 278 galvin aud., sponsored by bio. dept. 
art talk film series, robert irwin, art gallery, sponsored by art dept. film, "harlan county," eng. aud. 
lecture, "panama canal treaties," richard wyrough, law school lounge, sponsored by law school. 
mass and supper, bulla shed. 
bible study, sponsored by the campus crusade for christ, howard hall chapel. 
tv show, "straight talk" with prof. james danehy, channel 34. 
meeting, for all med school candidates, sponsored by the pre-med club, 123 nieuwland. 
new keenan revue, sponsored by keenan hall, washington hall. 
lecture, "spanish philosophy," anthony kerrigan­spain, lib. aud. sponsored by philosophy & modern languages dept. 
nd/smc theatre, eugene o'neill's "a touch of the poet," o'laughlin aud. 
variety show, sophomore parent weekend smc, little theatre. 
disco dance, sponsored by black law students of nd, stepan center, $1.50. 
nazz, featuring joe bauer-sally dentz, basement of Iafortune. 



Farmers rally for jailed comrades 
EDDiffiURG• TEXAS [AP] _ ers blocked a produce truck as it Meanwhile, John Duncan, gen-Hundreds of farmers riding trac-crossed the bridge from Reynosa, eral cousel for the Texas Civil tors and other farm vehicles con-Mexico. Liberties Union, said his organiza­verged on this already tense Rio Two farmers were known to have tion had arranged for legal assis-Grande Valley town yesterday, been hospitalized after the melee, tance for jailed farmers who want supporting colleagues arrested the and authorities said none of the to comp1at"n of poIt'ce brutalt'ty. 
day before in a violent confron-officers was hurt. Those jailed ,.---------------. 
tation with authorities. included American Agriculture 
The latest arrivals parked their mo':e~ent leaders from .Texa~, farm machinery on the outskirts of Loutstana, Oklaho~a, M1ssoun, town and gathered around the-Kentucky and Georg1a. . 
county: jail, where 200 farmers spent the night after refusing to post $18.75 bond each following their an·ests for blocking the border to protest Mexican beef and vege­table imports. 
The arrested men said they would not leave unless released outright or on their recognizance. 
About 300 farmers in the crowd outside heard leaders call for provisions for the men inside _ chewing tobacco, cigarettes, ant­acids and dominoes. 
Law enforcement officers, many of them in riot gear, were sta­tioned throughout town, but Hid­algo County Sheriff Brig Mar­molejo said there would be no trouble as long as the farmers were peaceful an did not block traffic. 
The arrests Wednesday came as about 100 officers, using tear gas and nightsticks, swept protesting farmers away fromt he Intemation­
al Bridge at Hidalgo, about 20 miles to the south. The farmers, many representing
American Agriculture, the group that has clled for a nationwide farm strike, had assembled there to protest the Mexican imports. The officers moved in after the protest­
Wyrc1ugh to speak on Panama treaty 
The Notre Dame Society of International Law is sponsoring a program on the Panama Canal Treaty today at 4 pm in the law school lounge. The featured speak­er will be Richard R. Wyrough, Senior Advisor to Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker, Chief U.S. nego­tiater for the Panama Canal treaty negotiations. Wyrough also holds a position in the Department of State's office of Panamanian Affairs. 
In addition, he has served with various senior military staffs spe­cializing in political-military and national security affairs. Wyrough holds a degree in history, engineer­ing and business administration from Georgetown University, the 
U.S. Military Academy and George Washington University. 
The Notre Dame community is invited. 
%Tt1e Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Katie Ker­win Layout Staff: Lou Rivera, Mary Ann Cooke, Anne Griffin Editorial Layout: Greg Hadges Features Layout: Brzhob Stachowiak, King Otacac Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Stacy Weaver, Mark Rust, lvlardi Nevin, Theresa Richeson EMTs: Rich Clarizlo, Leigh Tunakan · Day Editor: Tom Nilsson Copy Readers: Bob Varettoni, Mike Lewis Ad Layout: John O'Connell Photogt·apher: Beth Corbin 
The Observer 11 pubiiiiiM Men­dlly tllraugll Frlcl•y except during e~t•m •~1ti vK.I'tlon periods. Tbe Otbserver 11 publlsiiM lly tile students of Notre D•me .,.. s..nt 
MIII'Y"I College. Subscrtptlons m•y be purdluM for Ut per .,.... (110 per semester) fram The Observet", P.O. Box Q, Notre D41me, ll!ldlen• 46556. Sec:Dnd cll111 post... p•lcl, Notre D•me. 
Indian•. •IUI6. 
. The Observer Is • memiMr of tile AIICHCI•tecl Prell. All repra. dvdlon n.llts .,.. reHrWCI. 
TOM JACKSON 
Jackson to speak on job market_ 
"Guerilla Tactics in the Job Market" will be the topic for Ton Jackson, national authority on job! and careers, when he speaks a1 
7:30 p.m. Sunday in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Sponsored b) the Student Union Academic Com· mission, the program is open to tht public without charge. 
Jackson is the author of The mdden Job Market published by the New York Times. He has also written training manuals, work­books, and articles on manpowet and employment. 
His Notre Dame talk is expected to reveal ways to find the "hidden jobs," where the growth areas wil1 
be  in  the  1980's,  and  specific  
tactics  to he lp get a job.  
-277-1522  0  

Held Over 11th Week! Nominated for sAcademy Awards! 
Neil 
Weekdays 7:15-9:40 Sat.Sun. 1:45-4:15-7 
joe bauer & 


Friday, March 3, 1978 
3

the observer 
Brooks presents poetry about black experience 

by Dave O'Keefe Staff Reporter 

Pulitzer-Prize winning poet Gwen­dolyn Brooks entertained an aud­ience of over three hundred people last night in Washington Hall with a recitation of poetry that concen­trated largely on elements of the black experience. 
Brooks began by offering defini­tions of poetry by Carl Sandburg, ("the achievement of the synthesis of hyacinths and bisquits"), and offered her own definition: "Poetry 
is life distilled." "Mother," which Brooks described as "an abortion poem," was the first work read. Brooks explained th~tt. despite the fact that she had never had an abortion, "observa­tion, if intent and flccurate, is an aspect of experience." 
The next poem, inspired by the sight of grazing cows at1d horses The Keenan Revue, consisting of sixteen acts, will be presented this weekend at gton from the window of an Amtrak Hall. , [Photo by Beth Cutter] train, was "a tribute to these magnificent creatures who know how to do life like so few of us do." 
I 


Keenan Review to begin tonight 
''The Life of Lincoln West" 
b)' Clare Zimmerman 

The Kct·nan Review will be presented tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Attire is semi-formal and admission is free. 
Th·.' ,Juw. thi,., vear will include 
tct·n an;, Pt:i-formed by an 
New JU ICia oar members chosen b.' Andrew Segovia 
The na1:1cS of the twelve mem­bers of the Judicial Review Board have been released. The Board consists of six faculty and six administrative members. 
The administrative members are: Juanita Cleveland. personnel; John Goldrich. admissions; Richard Sullivan, registar; Sr. Jean Lenz. Farley; John Cackley, Alunmi; and Sr. Kathleen Rossman, Walsh. Faculty mem­bers include: Ken Milani, account­ing; Albert LeMay, spanish; Charles Crutchfield. law; Robert Rodes, law; Ernan McMulllin, philosophy; and Claude Pomerleau. l!overnment. 
Members~ of the Board were selected by the Student Govenment Board of Commissioners. The selections were based of the nom­inations of twelve faculty members by the Faculty Senate and twelve administrators by Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for Stu­dent Affairs. 
The newly selected members will serve on the Board until the last class day of this semester. Board members for next semester will be chosen before May and will start one-year terms beginning on the first class day in the fall. 
The Judicial Review Board may hear appeals on any aspect of the Dean of Students' decisions con­cerning disciplinary action, includ­ing the severity of penalties. 
all-Keenan cast. These acts m-elude juggling. take-offs on popular tunes. and comedy routines. Also, there will be a stage band under the direction of Shawn McKenna. 
The purpose of the Keenan Review, which is sponsored and funded solely by Keenan Hall, is to provide entertainment for Notre Dame and to show how much talent You Have Forgotten Sunday", one for the old "Shorthand Possible", and "The Ballad of Pearly Mae Lee," a bittersweet lament by a young black woman whose man pays for the favors of a young white 

Congressional leaders propose 
woman with a whipping. Brooks read "Primer for Blacks"

possible raise of retirement age 
WASHINGTON[AP]-House-Sen-vate business could not force an ate conferees agreed yesterday on employee into retirement before a bill that would force private age 70 would go into effect next businesse~ to raise their mandatory Jan. I. The legislation grants up to retirement age fom 65 to 70, and two years for companies to phase ban altogether the forced retire-out mandatory retirement provi­ment of federal employees. sions in· existing contracts. 
Under current law, the three The ~easu_re affects only private million federal workers are subject compames w1th 20 or more emplo­to mandaton retirement at age 70. yees on the payroll. That covers That rule would end after Sept. JO, about 70 perce~t of the labor force. under new legislation. Currently, pnva_te sector v:ork_ers 
Congressional leaders said final ~re _Pro~ect7~ ag~mst age ?lscnm­passage of the bill should come this malton m hmng, JOb ~e.tentton, pay month, and President Carter is and other work conditions only to e~pected to sign it quickly. age 65. 
The provis:on under which pri-The proposed law does not 
change 65 as the age at which most 
people can begin collecting maxi­
. d• . / b d mum Social Security ·benefits. 
Conferees agreed to compromise 
on two controversial sections of the new legislation affecting highly paid businessmen and college pro­fessors. 
Businesses would be allowed to continue the forced retirement at age 65 of high level executives whose retirement benefits, minus Social Security, would amount to $27,000 a year. To clarify these types of executives, the conferees added the definition "high policy -making capacity" to those who 

can be found in any hall on described the misery of ''the 
Publicity Director Paul '-"u"'""''l ugliest little boy anyol}e ever saw." advises people to get there Ironically, , Lincoln overcomes his they want a seat and adds, ' insecurity when he overhears a Keenan Review was great whitt: man characterize him as a 
year, but this year it should be typical example of his kind, better." "Black, ugly and odd. The real Tomorrow's show will be follow-thing." ed by a reception for all who Brooks followed with three love to attend in the Keenan ba:serne1~t p-oems; one for the young, "When 
might fit this catagory. 

for "the blacks in the room," butColleges and universities also invited those "who aren't of thecould continue mandatory age 65 black persuasion" to eavesdrop.
retirement policies for professors, but only until July 1, 1982. Then the mandatory retirement age would be raised to 70. 
The conferees decided the delay until 1982 would give colleges time The poem was a powerful exhorta­tion to "Rise, you self-shriveled blacks." "At the Hairdressers" was dedicated to "those sisters who have kept their naturals." "The Lovers of the Poor" con­cerned two matrons, "adventurers invading the black ghetto to give a present of money to a 'worthy' black family." 

Many of Brooks' poems dealt with youth, inspired either by her children or by the "distilled mem­ories of my childhood.'' "Song in the Front Yard" echoes the cry of all children: "I stayed in the front yard all my life. I want a peek at the back, where it's rough and untend­ed and weeds grow. " 
Brooks was warm, personable, and well received.-Her comment on "Song in the Front Yard" is typical of her unassuming honesty. 
"Agreat many critics whom I've come to respect said that this poem was written on many levels and contains deep significance,'' she explained, then added, "Thev're wrong." ­
Career assistance offered Monday 
A program for students who are 
undecided about their major will be 
held Mo_nday, fr?m 6-7:30 p.m., in 
the Regma Auditorium. The prog­
ram, called "A Major Decision " 
offer_s students an opportunity 'to 
talk Informally with other students 
and faculty members about the 
various majors. 
"A Major Decision" is sponsored 
by the Career Development Center 
Office of Academic Affairs, Fresh~ 
man Office, and the Student Gov­
ernment Academic Board. Refresh-· 
ments will be served. 

5:15 pm Saturday Vigil Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.
to plan ahead and adjust their tenure systems. 

9:30 am Sunday Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C. 
Proponents of the business ex­

10:45 am Rev. Mark Searle, 0. F.M. emption said this would give young 
·12:15 pm Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
people more of a chance to climb the ladder to executive levels. The bill also orders the labor secretary to study the feasibility of 

7:15 pm Vespers Homilist: 
Rev. John F. Lahey, C.S.C.
a total ban oa all forced retirement 
policies. 

Dame Student U Present 
COMPLETE WIRE SERVICE ~11======327 LincolnWayWest ··=-====•:It 

'I;~ 8&::,,, .. ~ 
lt:::====,,south Bend, Indiana 46601 :::===:::::tl 

With Special Guest Star 
BOB WELCH


NICKlES happy hour 

also CLOVER
3-6pm 

WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 -7:30pm NOTRE DAME ACC 
3 beers .for $1 

All Seats Reserved: $7.00 S $6.00 
On Sale Now at Student Ticket and at ACC Box Office
beers 5lY all umkend 

the observer Friday, March 3, 1978
4 




Carter attempts to bolster plunging U.S. dollar 
WASHINGTON (API -President club tradition. The questions were 
Carter tried to prop up the crashing selected by the president of the 
dollar yesterday by touting invest­club, Frank Aukofer of the Mil­
ments in the United States, prom­waukee Journal. 
ising less consumption of foreign Usually, at news conferences, 
oil and predicting that U.S. trading reporters get the president's nod, 
partners will be able to buy more stand and ask their questions 
American goods. personally. 
He pledged to take direct action The questioning at the Press 
to support the dollar if necessary Club covered a wide range of 
but said it would stabilize and issues, and Carter made these 
"remain in good shape" without main points: 
help once European money mar­-Ratification of a new Strategic 
kets weigh his statements and start Arms Limitation Treaty SALT with 
realizing the dollar's actual worth. the Soviet Union would be jeopard­
The president spoke at a news ized by the action Russia is taking 
conference as the dollar encount­to arm Ethiopia and help direct its 
ered renewed pressure after plun­war against Somalia. Secretary of 
ging to a record low on foreign State Cyrus Vance said yesterday 
exchanges. The drop means the Russians now have two gen­
imported products such as auto­erals directing operations in Africa. 
mobiles and television sets are This, Carter said, "would be a 
likely to cost more in the United cause of concern to me and would 
States. lessen the confidence of the Amer­
It also means Americans over­ican people in the word and 
seas will get less for the dollars peaceful intentions of the Soviet 
they spend. Union." 
Carter met with reporters at the Replying to a Soviet charge that National Press Club in an unusual he is blackmailing the Russians by session where questions were sub­linking Africa and SALT, the mitted in writing to conform with president declared : "The two are 

Chaplin's b·ody stolen 
SWITZERLAND [API · Grave indentations in the ground indi­robbers acting under cover of cating the coffin had been dragged darkness stole the body of come­for a short distance. dian Charlie Chaplin. who died Police said there were no other Christmas Day, from a tiny un­clues. guarded cemetery in this village Chaplin's widow Oona, daughter where he spent his last 20 years, of playwright Eugene O'Neill re­police said yesterday. fused to discuss the theft with 
The rectangular cemetery. about reporters. 

plan the elections, for which no 
late has been set. The council 
:hairmanship will rotate among 
hem. 

The interim government will be faceq with the two sizeable tasks of winning Western recognition for the internal settlement and finding a way to end the increasingly costly war against externally based guer­rillas who have vowed to crush the 

saturday:

agreement and the Smith govern­ment. The constitutional agreement re­
•.ulted fron' three months of talks initiated by Smith after a British­Arm:rican peace plan -which would im·Jqde the guerrillas in a settle­
• 
crt. failed to make headway. 
r. 

iinked because of action by the of Egypt "but that is impossible Soviets. We don't initiate the 
now." linkage." Carter opened his press club -He is asking Congress to restore appearance with a brief speech in flexibility to civil service by basing which he announced plans to ask raises for top government employ­Congress for "the most sweeping 
ees on work well done and making reform of the civil service system it easier to fire workers who are since it was created nearly 100 incompetent or inefficient. years ago." 
Carter's package would create a The president said that "it is a special unit to deter retaliation sad fact that it is easier to promote against "whistle-blowers" who ex­and transfer incompetent em­
pose gross abuses in government. ployees than to get rid of them." But the president said it would not On other topics at the news protect those who violate pledges conference, Carter : 
to kt:ep government secrets. -Said "No" when asked whether Asked specifically about former his administration waited too long CIA officer Frank Snepp, who before it intervened in the national wrote an unauthorized book critical 
coal strike. 
of American action during the fall -Said of the slump in his standing South Vietnam, the president de­in public opinion polls that ''we clared: "I don't look upon Frank 
have had to deal and have decided to deal with long standing, very difficult issues" that had not been addressed before. He cited suc­cesses in improving the economy and getting direct negotiations started between Israel and Rgypt. -Said he supported a require."lent that employees of the ~lA and other security agencies abide by a pledge not to reveal classified information without permission. -Described as "very reasonable" and "very adequate" his admin­istration's program to provide long­range guarantees of loans to help New York City cope with its financial problems, although "it is obviously not everything that the New York City officials would want.'' 
Snepp as one of the greatest 

Five hundred expected
'whistle-blowers' of all time." Comments from Congress gen­erally favored Carter's plan but 


for Soph-Parents Weekend 
indicated opposition to a proposed 

limit on veterans' prt:ference for by Molly WouHe 
civil service jobs. 

The dollar fell to a record low on Debbie Roberts, president of St. West German money markets Mary's sophomore class. estimates Wednesday when it was valued at nearly 500 parents will participate less than 2 marks. in St. Mary's annual Sophomore­
Asked about his forthcoming Parent Weekend, which begins meeting in Washington with Israeli today. Prime Minister Menahem Begin, Festivities begin with a variety Carter said he hoped to encourage show. dedicated to the parents, at resumption of direct negotiations 8:30 tonight in Moreau Hall's Little between Israel and Egypt. Theatre. followed by a wine and 
"We hope to search out some cheese party. resolution on the definition of Tomorrow's activities include an specitics related to the Sinai," he open house and a formal to be held said and added that he would at Century Center. 'Making Our prefer to see direct talks between Dreams Come True" is the theme Begin and President Anwar Sadat of the dance, to which all St. 
Clip this ad, bring it in, and receive iliiilii~M~illliil... Oven Baked
fall Wednesday and dawn yester­
day. They said there was no 
10% ADDITIONAL off!! ~~~-lJ'I 

indication whether it was taken for 
APPLE PANCAKES
art supplies

ransom. A Corsier muncipal official called the theft an "act of 
Extra large, using fresh apples
• office supplies

vandalism.'' 
& pure sugar\ cinnamon glaze
Paul Germain, a municipal work­

er who helped with Chaplin's burial 
US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland
Dec. 27, described the coffin as 
\

massive and said it would have 
272-7433 across from Holiday Inn 
CASH O~.JLY-RRST COME, R~"T SERVE

taken fourmento move it. 
Etienne Buenzod, another Cor­sier municipal worker, discovered ********************
a 

the grave had been tampered with c • • 2 during a routine check. There were • • 
Smith, moderates 
s
announce 

~ ~~ 
Rhodesian pact 
·So~
SAIJSBURY• RODESIA [AP] 

~o"'· <,~

Prime Minister Ian Smith and three 
moderate black leaders announced 
' . M an agreement yesterday that pro­vides for the country's first one-­man, one-vote elections and black majority rule by Dec. 31. 






21 CLUB
In a brief statement after 2'll !lours of talks, Smith, Bishop Ahel Muzorewa, the Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole and Chief Jeremiah Chirau said they will sign a constituational >ettlement today. 
Under the pact, the four leaders o~·ho sign the agreement will form an "executive council" to take over the powers of the prime minister an 
friday: happy hour 


60 yards long, is located in a remote area along a rarely traveled dirt road. It is surrounded by a 
NOTICE: small stone wall about three feet high, near which Chaplin's grave was located. There was no 
GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE elaborate tombstone because he wanted his grave to be as modest 

OFFICE ENGINEERS. INC..
as the others in the cemetery. Police said the heavy wooden 
116 S. Michigan -South Bend 

coffin was removed between night­Mary's sophomores. parents, and administrators are invited. Dinner will be served from 7:30 to 9 p.m., and dancing will begin at 9 and end at 1 a.m. 
A sophomore-parent Mass will be offered Sunday morning at 8:30 in the Church of Loretto. Sr. Katherine Reighert of Camput Ministry will deliver the homily. Brunch will be furnished after­wards in the cafeteria. 
"Sophomore-Parent Weekend is sure to be a memorable occasion this year," commented Roberts. "A lot of planning and work has gone into it. and we're sure everyone's going to have a great time." 
Our Specialty: 

3--.6 pm 
l.ive entertainment 8--+2 am 
•
ji 


----~.,~~... \ 
Despite dissatisfaction 


Hoosier miners expect~d to ratify coal treaty 
WINSLOW* IND [AP]-Striking miners burned copies of the pro­posed coal contract yesterday and denounced the agreement as unfair for retirees and more fit for the outhouse than the United Mine Workers. 
Despite the generally unhappy reception, UWM District 11 Presi­dent Larry Reynolds predicted that Indiana' 3,700 active miners will vote to ratify it and end the 87-day strike that has pinched electric utilities and forced more than 4, 700 layoffs in other industries. In another development, the RCA plant at Marion, Ind., announced that it will repeat on Monday this week's one-day layoff of 2,500 workers. 
"Many ofthe men have been out for a long time, and they'll vote yes because they want to get back to work, even though they're not satisfied," Reynolds said. 
The voting, scheduled to begin Saturday, will be close, but "I really think it'll pass," Reynolds added. 
At a gymnasium in Winslow, about 200 miners gathered to hear details of the contract, which their 

Miller recommended 
WASHINGTON [AP] -With only Mohammad Khatami. its chairman voting no, the Senate 
At the hearing Monday, Prox­Banking Committee recommended mire contended and Miller demed 

yesterday that the Senate confirm that a $2.95 million payment made G. William Miller to head the to the sales agent, Air Taxi Inc.,
Federal Reserve Board. 
was a bribe made to clinch a $500 

Formal confirmation of the nom­million helicopter sale to the Iran­
ination of the 52-year-old board ian army. 
chairman of Textron Inc. to replace local leaders urged them to reject. There were no words in support of the pact. 
One miner said of his copy, "I left mine in the outhouse." 
"If we all had outhouses, we might get some benefit out of it the contract," another miner shouted. 
At Terre Haute, where UMW district headquarters are located, two locals met in a basement meeting room but refused to talk to reporters afterward. · An Associ­ated Press newsman was ejected from the room and told that if he wanted to know what was said at the meeting, "You'll have to join the union." 
The few who talked refused to give their names. "It's mixed emotion," one miner said. "there are things in it I like and things I don't like. I don't know if I'll vote for it." 
After the Winslow meeting, one miner started burning his copy of the 38-page contract and about a dozen other miners threw their copies on the fire. One miner spit on the burning papers. 

Gayton Oaridge, president of UMW Local 353, told the miners they had to share the blame for an inadequate contract because many had failed to attend regular stra­tegy sessions during the strike. 
"We've been sitting too long," he said. "We ain't got nobody but ourselves to blame." 
A major complaint was the pension provision, which fails to meet the UMW's demand for equal benefits for older miners who retired under the original 1950 pension plan and those who retired after the last contract in 1974. Under the proposed contract, the old-time retirees would still receive about $170 less than modern pensioners in 1981. 
"We retired miners ain't even considered when it's all said and done," one man said. "You hang on. Let's get a contract that treats the miners the same as operators." 
"Send it back. Let 'em rewrite it," another miner yelled. 

A Touch of the Poet Eugene O'Neill's search for his roots. Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4 at 8 ·
SMC
THE A T R E All seats $2.50 Phone: 
$2 std-fac-staff 284-4176 O'Laugh/in Aud. 
Arthur F. Burns as the nation's central banker is expected in the full Senate today. 
The 14-1 vote by which the Banking Committee endorsed the nomination came at the end of a five-week investigaion which clear­ly tried the patience of some senators and led to an open revolt against the leadership of Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., the committee chairman. 
There were complaints that the nomination was being delayed unduly at a time when leadership is needed at the Federal Reserve to meet the problems of interest rates, economic expansion, un­employment, inflation and the declining value of the dollar over­seas. 
Proxmire replied that the in­vestigation had been thorough and complete, that Miller had been interrogated for parts of just two days and that the investigation had been completed as quickly as possible. 
He said some senators ap­
parently felt Miller was being 
subjected to "an inquisition." 
"As the immediate successor in 
the Senate to Sen. Joseph Mc­
Carthy, a disgrace to this body, I 
know what can happen," he said. 
"Perhaps I've done that. I hope 
not.. .Nobody cari say that the 
hearings were stacked ... I don't 
think in any sense Mr. Miller was 
browbeaten. I can't find one single 
personal attack in the record." 
Sen. Adlai E. Stevenson III, 
D-Ill., one senator who had pressed 
for an immediate decision Monday 
on Miller, told Proxmire that sen­
ators were only expressing fears of 
more delay and fears of a possible 
"inquisition." 
Proxmire said he still believes 
Miller's business background does 
not qualify him to head the Federal 
Reserve. 
He cited Miller's lack of ex­
perience in economics and mon­
etary affairs and the fact that, for 
the first four to six months of his 
four-year term as chairman of the 
Federal Reserve Board, the Fed­
eral Reserve System will be con­
tinuing an investigation into certain 
Textron besiness practices. 
"I think the nation is not well 
served by this nomination," Prox­
mire told the 14 other committee 
members. 
He also claimed that the comwit­
tee's staff investigation led to the 
conclusion that Miller should have 
known that Bell Helicopter, a 
Texatron subsidiary, was dealing in 
Iran with a sales agency owned JY 
the commander in chief of the 
Iranian Imperial Air Force, Gm. 
J-board chairmen to meet 
A meeting for all hall Judicial Board Chairmen will be held this Monday at 7 p.m. in the Student Government offices. The purpose of the meeting is to distribute ballot boxes and review the election procedures for Tuesday 
~ 


OVER$650 AMONTH 
RIGHT THROUGH YOUR 



SENIORYEAR. 
If you're a junior or a senior majoring in math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­Collegiate Program ( NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. And at the end of the year of training, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. 
It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training program. With unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs in private industry should you decide to leave the Navy later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) 
Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus on March 8, or contact your Navy representative at 312-657-2169 (collect). If you prefer, send your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312-B468, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, 
\ Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The NUPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help you finish college: it can lead to an exciting career opportunity. 
NAVY OFFICER. 
IT'S NOTJUSTAJOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. 

The Way We See It 
The following is an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the three SBP-SBVP tickets, accompanied by an endorsement based on the analysis. Before deciding to endorse, The Observer editorial board conducted individual Inter­views with each ticket Wednesday night. This endorsement is the result of discus­sion following the interviews and repre­sents the opinion of a majority of the editorial board. 
On Monday The Observer will publish columns written by the candidates, in l which they may challenge any part of this editorial and make their final statements to the student body. 
Blanco-Ewing 
The Observer credits these candidates 
with addressing the broadest range of· 
Issues, including questions of judicial 
procedure and constitutional reform not 
dealt with by the other tickets. But while 
the candidates demonstrated their re­
search into proposed lighting for the 
Stepan basketball courts and a student 
activities complex, we found them unfamil­
Iar with Important aspects of recent 
Student Government history which bear on 
some of their other proposals. 
Specifically, they did not seem to have 
taken adequate stock of past arguments 
and developments in controversies over 8 
a.m. exams, pass-fail option deadlines and the status of parietals offenses. And their proposal to give the newly-elected SBP and SBVP a voice in the selection of Student Union director embroils the selection process once more in politics. 
Both candidates have shown genuine interest in hall politics and in campus affairs--Blanco through his membership on the Groundskeepers Rights Coalition and the Faculty Senate ad hoc committee on faculty-student relations, and Ewing through her work on Mardi Gras, An Tostal and in Student Union and Student Government. 
But we feel the weakness of this ticket is that it lacks a realistic understanding of history and of the feasibility of its proposals and what their implementation would entail. 
McKenna-Roohan This ticket deals with a narrower set of goals, but offers more experience in campus leadership. McKenna has shown himself capable of accomplishing goals in his position as Junior Class President. Roohan has taken an active role in the Hall Presidents Council as president of St. Ed's and spokesperson for the Student Review Committee. This ticket offers two ideas in particular that warrant mention: a long-overdue proposal for off-campus students to store their valuables over break, and develop­ment of workshops for hall, class and club leaders in effective planning of social 
Conference and the Council on Communi­
cation. 
The first proposal is appealing in 
principle, but would require much more 
extensive financial and organizational 
resources than McKenna-Roohan have 
indicated. The housing and feeding of 
50-60 conference delegates alone would be 
a tremendous project. 
The Council on Communication is an 
unnecessary duplication of the roles of the 
hall councils and the HPC. Most problems 
arising within the halls can be handled by 
the rector or the hall council. Problems 
that are more wide-spread or persistent 
are the proper concern of the H PC or even 
the CLC. The creation of a new body 
would only obstruct the channels of 
communication more. 
We feel McKenna-Rc1ohan' s experience 
and records in campus !leadership indicate 
they can implement successful programs, 
but we question whether their proposed 
programs are well-defined enough to act 
on. 
Schlageter-Rizzo 
This ticket's proposals are more modest, but also better-researched and, for the most part, more 1Feasible. Although we have no great confidenoe in the success of monthly forums--variations of which have been consistently poorly attended--we see these candidates' guarcm~ed 48-hour re­sponse as a simple, but practical way of soliciting and responding to student prob­lems and suggestions. 
The proposed Career Development Center, though not original with them or unique to their platform (the proposal was first made in the Report of the Committee to Evaluate Coeducation and is included in the McKenna-Roohan platform), has been researched thoroughly by Schlageter­Rizzo. Likewise, of "the three tickets' platforms on Security, theirs is the only one outlining a specific mechanism through which proposals could be evalu­ated and recommendations made to the appropriate administrators. 
Schlageter has proven his ability to implement programs as Student Union Service Commissioner. He has been responsible for such things as the book exchange, the plant sale and the Freshman Register. Rizzo has been active as president of Lyons Hall ,and as a member of the Neighborhood Roots planning committee. 
The Observer endorses the Schlageter­Rizzo ticket because it combines well­defined, concrete proposals and a proven ability to implement them. 

P0 BOx 

Grounds aew speaks out 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this letter to express our disappointment at the University's handling of the recent suspensions, and at its refusal to talk to us. Reprimand procedures which are clearly laid out, were not followed in this instance. Appar­ently, Mr. Mason can by-pass any University procedure at his own whim. It's ironic that Mr. Mason is so insistent on following strict procedure when it comes to our request to meet with Personnel, yet he so quickly disregards procedure when it comes to such a serious matter as suspending workers. 
The groundskeepers have had 
eight days off since December 25, 1977, and they worked both Christ­mas Day and New Years Day through the blizzard. We bring this up to show that we have worked long hours, under harsh conditions. However, our com­plaint is not with the amount of work, but rather, at how poorly we are treated while at work. Day in and day out we are given difficult and heavy work to do by hand that could more easily, and in the past has been, done by machine. We 
are being hassled not to take the sh~rt breaks that are so necessary in the freezing weather we work in. Why are we being harassed? Could it be that the University would 
like to settle its labor disputes by forcing us to quit? We do not know the answers to these questions because the University refuses to talk to twenty-one of its workers 

Q e~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ about job conditions. 
We will not let these suspensions 

dampen our desire for a union -if 
anything, it clearly shows the need 
for one. Groundsl!eepen [10 signatures) 

Big Brothers need V0Iunteers 
Deu Editor: 
The Big Brother and Big Sister 
Association of South Bend desper­
ately needs volunteers I Did you 
watch a basketball game, enjoy 
your favorite hobby, or frolic in the 
snow this past week? Why not try 
sharing the!ie activities with a 
lonely child? 
events. We would ha\fie liked to have seen more concrete proposals on these topics from the candlda~es. 

In fact, the general weakness of this ticket seems to be a failure to adequately explore the implications of its proposals. Two cases in point are the Third World 1 

,. 
*The Observer ~ 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinion and letters are the views of their authors. Column space i~ available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Colt> Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Friday, March 3, 1978 
Lobotomy by Pa1rick Byrnes 
OF C0c.JRSE. AJOI / I'M A 
7AVRvs .6/VD /11 Y HoKoseoPE­~s ~ /JB/SC! sui>ERsrrnovs. 
I 


youths in the South Bend area who 
need some kindness, understand­Anti-Semitism 
ing, and companionship from a 
friend they can call their own. 
Whether it be a snowball fight, unchristian 
watching a game, or just talking, it 
only takes an hour or two a week to Dear Editor: 
brighten the life of some boy or 
girl. The crude anti-semitism of Mr. 
and Mrs. Ford's letter in the Feb.
The popular notion that youths in 23 ·edition of the Observer temptsneed of a big brother or sister are one to ignore it in the hopes thattroubled children from broken such views are simply beyond thehomes is not often the case. In pale of rational discourse. How­many instances, the youngsters are ever, I feel it is important thatintelligent, active, and well-be-Christians not leave it to our Jewish haved, and come from good homes. 

colleagues to react against this kind Yet, often one parent is dead, of slander if we are not to repeatwhich forces the other to work. 
the past. For once before in thisTherefore, the youths just need a century, intelligent and good Chris­friend on whom they can occasion­tians thought that anti-semitismally rely. 
was too crude to deserve an' 
As a big brother for the last three argument and as a result we made 
years, I have developed a close, the Jews pay a terrible price. 
personal relationship with a father­
less 10 year old boy. The value of S? I~t us_ be clear that we 
such a relationshiop can only be C:hnstams wdl not c_ondo~e the 
truly appreciated by those who kmd of attack exemplified m Mr. 
have experienced the joy of giving and Mrs. Ford's letter. For not 
a part of one's self to another. I only does it attack the very people will never forget the looks of joy on that. carry God.'s promise: bu! it this boy's face when we worked mantfests a vtrulent nattonahsm together to win trophies in a that is the denial of the Kingdom of Big-Brother sponsored three-leg-Ch~st. In ord~r to. gesture the ged race and bowling tournament. senousness of thts clatm let me say Our other, more common, activities clearly that if Mr. and Mrs. Ford include bike rides, feeding animals identify with the Christian commu­at the zoo, and throwing the nity, as a matter of integrity they football. ought not to do so as clearly they 
worship Caeser and not Christ.
Their need is great, but you can satisfy it. Why not make a new Stanley Baaerwasfriend? Call the Big Brother and Department of TheologyBig Sister Association today at 232-9958. You will make a needy boy or girl very happy! 
KevfaM.Walm 


.Letters to a lonely God 
The other day, I heard news of a priest who is very dear to me, a classmate of seminary days who is as close to me as a brother. We were ordained in different years he and I; but there were times, in our student training, when his sense of humor kept me going, because with him, I could laugh at solemnities. Seminary life could be tough, especially during the Lents when you had resolved to become perfect. Perfection was a habit, it was thought, learned from reading the lives of the saints. Looking back, the examples of the saints made perfection seem like a pretty grim habit to acquire. Sister Elizabeth of the Trinity, for instance, insisted that her only consolation was to be left without consolations. St. Henry Suso lined his drawers with needles. Father Willie Doyle, the Jesuit, ejaculated prayers until 
his jaws ached, and chilled his concup­iscence by standing in frigid pools of water up to his neck. Needles, ejaculations, and frigid water were the easy stuff compared with the need for silence and interior recollection·. Interior recollection was like listening to the voice of God all day, as my dog listens to hear if I'm awake in the morning so that I can get up and take him outside. Without silence, we were told as seminarians, we could never be properly 


Suruiuing The Saints 
recollected, interiorly. 
When, as seminarians, I told my friend I thought Sister Elizabeth of the!Trinity was dreary, he said he found her more 
depressing than acne on a first date. I asked him if he could keep interiorly recollected, and he said only when he didn't line his drawers with needles. I said I had tried ejaculatory prayers, and he admitted standing up to his neck in chilled water. The only consolation of such practices, we both agreed, was that they left us without consolation. 
I had news the other day of my friend, but it didn't bring me laughter. After many years of ministry, my friend has decided to leave the active priesthood. There are announcements people make, I have noticed, when you mustn't seemed stunned, when you'd be lactlng class and grace to say: "Leave me alone with the news. Let me shed my tears by myself." Someone you love or care about says: "Mitzie and I are divorcing, you know"; or, "You won't believe this, but it appears to me that I'm gay"; or, less sadly, "I'm joining the charismatic movement.'' Such announcements can frighten you because you are losing frienrls to an experience where you cannot help them. They will do well; you will survive, if only they'll allow 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
you an immediate moment wher ou're not smiling. 
I wept when I learned my fr: td was leaving the priesthood. Why sh.,,!ldn't I weep? There are memories that are part of innocence, and I will never again be the innocent novice who listened to hear God's voice in the silent hours of the seminary. Memories can get bent out of shape when you hear news that a friend has left. So much of you belongs to his strength that you wonder if you can ever feel innocent or young again. 
All that any of us is called to do is to save his soul; the saints teach us that. Neither my friend nor I ever wanted to be saints; as holy men, we could never have made it. The gift of laughter, I think, has helped me more than all my prayers. I wonder if anyone has ever thought of making laughter a sacrament? 
For a while, I think, my friend as a priest stopped laughing. I think that is why he is leaving, in search of laughter. The ordained life can be as grim as a seminary on a day in Lent. At his first Mass, !lnd every Mass for the next decade, my friend announced: "Introibo ad altare Dei; ad Deum qui laetificabit juventutem meam. '' ("I will go unto the altar of God; to God who gives joy to my youth.'') One day for him in middle age, the joy showed up missing. When joy leaves town, there seems to be a need to search for it. 
To every seminarian who is ordained, , the priesthood is given as an eternal trust. 
It is a tradition of service you belong to, a 
grace that sinews your soul. You can't 
leave it anymore than you can excape 
fingerprints, unless you're willing to do 
violence to yourself, 1and my friend isn't a 
violent person. His priesthood will be less 
visible now, but I trust him to continue as a 
priest, since God never reclaims His gifts, 
and robes are not needed for the rituals 
known to the heart. · 
Perfection is not a habit that the saints 
can teach because the saints are not perfect 
as God is perfect. Maybe I should have 
heard God in the novitiate silence; instead I 
heard the laughter of a friend. From that 
laughter came a peace that was like God's 
voice singing in my soul 
Saints are such lovely people. It's too 
bad that they are inimitable. If only Henry 
Suso could have gotten on to holiness 
without the needles. If only Sister 
Elizabeth could have accepted consola­
tions. Then I could have enjoyed the saints 
rather than to have felt the need to survive ,them. 

Angel Flight: Who What Where When Wh~ 

t As I crossed the South Quad on my way to an interview with campus Angel Flight Commander Mary Melley, I carried a notepad that bore a simple question at the top of the front page: ''Angel Flight--what is it?" I've heard that same question asked around campus a number of times in the past few months, particularly the week preceding St. Valentine's Day, when a group of girls calling themselves "Angel Flight" could be seen selling candy in the South Dining Hall. It was then that I finally decided to research this Angel Flight thing and find out exactly what it is. Angel Flight is a service organization sponsored by the Air Force ROTC. Based in college campuses across the nation, it serves communities and colleges in affilia­tion with the Arnold Air Society. In most places it originates from a specific sorority, though at Notre Dame the rules prohibit this. It was founded in 1952 as a sister 
organization to the Arnold Air Society (AAS), and at that time was mainly groups of girls serving the AAS boys. That changed quickly, and by the late fifties the Angels were doing things for themselves. Today the Angels and the AAS work together on some projects, but primarily they are independ<>nt groups working for thetr own individual interests. 
At Notre Dame, Angel Flight is in the midst of revitalization. Last year only four gi~ls were members, and one of these graduated. Now, thirteen girls and one boy--only seven of whom are ROTC members--serve under Commander Mary Melley. A sophomore from McLean, Virginia, Mary supervises the ND Flight detachment and reports to Area and National Commanders. Air Force Captain Gene Renuart and his wife Jill advise and help out with Flight activities. 
Flight activites are varied. The Angels collected for the Jerry Lewis Muscular Dystrophy Telethon last November, and have been baking special order birthday cakes for AAS members since September. Their major project in the St. Joe County are has been to lend a hand at the Korvilla Home for the Mentally Retarded, main­taining the grounds and taking patients to football games, picnics, etc. Sometimes they enjoy social gatherings with the Air Force Cadet Corps. Nationally, the Angel Flight 1977-78 campaign is "The Family," and the ND Flight has contributed to the cause by giving Thanksgiving and Christ­mas dinners to needy people in the area. Fund-rising activities include selling pro­grams and polish sausages at football games, and most recently, selling_ and delivering Valentine's Day candy on the ND-SMC campuses. 
This is Mary's second year in Angel Flight. "Candy Carson, last year's Commander, got me into it. She got Angel Flight going again." A 1977 grad, Candy was responsible for rejuvenating interest in Angel Flight; previous Commanders had presi<led over more members, but none had instituted pledge programs that would bring in new ones. Consequently, Angel Flight gradually dissipated almost to non-existence. Fortunately, there was Candy and then Mary to get it back Jn its feet again. Many freshmen were recruited last semester. Says Mary: "Freshman 

*Observer 




Features 
year you keep your eyes open for a good 
social  organization.  I  came  out  here  
thinking  of getting into  something  like  
this."  

Mary's duties include attending various conclaves in other parts of the country. At these, Ange\.:Fligfit members from across 
=ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc 
CatAtrcphy by Pat Byrnes 
America gather to share ideas and get to know each other. Mary just returned from an Area Conclave in St. Louis this paSt weekend. "We accomplished a lot of things," she said. "Came up with some new ideas. Hopefully, we'll sponsor next year's Bi-Area Conclave." 
Mary states two objectives that guide her supervision of the Angels. "I want people more aware of things off~campus. 
People come here thinking there's nothing  
outside the campus borders. I lived  
'Jff-campus in a very poor section of town,  
md I could see how much could be done.''  
She also wants the Angels "to have a good  
time. You're supposed to get something  
out of it, whether it's satisfaction out of  
helping people or meeting them socially."  
One of Angel Flight's biggest problems  
is getting work. "There are so many  
service organizations on campus," says  
Mary, "there's almost no more projects.  
You have to look to find them.'' Anonymity  
is also a problem. With little money for  
publicity, the Angels have been relatively  
unknown around campus. ~However, Mary  
>ees a change in the near future. Pledge  
programs to recruit new Angels are in the  
works. "We're trying to get more guys  
involved, and of course •more girls too,"  
Mary says. Other future plans include  
taking the Korvilla Home people to the  
Blue-Gold (perhaps Green-Gold this year?)  
f<M>tball game, and possibly a Special  
Olympics for those same people. That's Angel'Flight. :A group of students  
having fun helping out in a bunch of places  
on the ND-SMC carppus and St. J~'s County. If you happen to hear someone  1  
saying "What the bell is 'Angel Flight?"'  
or some jerk suggesting that it might be  
one of those bot contemporary TV sitcoins, direct him or her to Mary Melley, 324  
Lewis. She's looking for new Angels everywhere.  
I  
--~·-··'C  .j'  

1 
l 
-----------------------------------~ 
the ObServer Friday, March 3!. 1978, 

Tongsun Park g1ves details 
St~. Mary's Career Development 
on influence-buying operation 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Tongsun even speculate on that." Park reportedly began giving de-J~worski made . the comm~nt , tails of an alleged influence-buying dunn~ a , br~ak m the et~tcs operation to the House ethics ~ommtttee s thtrd day of_ question­committee yesterday and some mg Tongsun Park on hts alleged members called it odious and ugly. influence buying Congress. 
"We covered the most odious Jaworski has said it is essential episode in the story today," Rep. for the committee to get the Bruce Caputo (R-N. Y.) told report-testimony of not just Park but also ers. other Korean off-·ials, including 
"It was a conspiracy of American former Ambassad ·Kim Dong Jo, businessmen. congressmen and to determine wheU1er congressmen Koreans to make blatantly improp-sold influence or should be punish­,·r payments over a sustained ed for any other misconduct. period with U.S. taxpayers' The former ambassador and his money." he said. "The details are wife are accused of trying to give revolting." Rep. Millicent Fenwick envelopes stuffed with $100 bills to (R-N.J.) said. "the whole thing is at least three congressmen. ugly.'' The former ambassador broke 
She and Caputo refused. because silence last week with a Newsweek of the committee's secrecy rules, to magazine interview to denounce reveal any of Park's testimony but the allegation as "ridiculous." said he gave new details on He called a former embassy payments already disclosed public-officer who made the accusation a ly. liar and called a Capitol Hill 
·'There's no new territory but secretary reckless for identifying a 
there are new interpretations and photograph of him as the man who they're ugly." Mrs. Fenwick said. tried unsuccessfully to give Rep. 
In another development. the Larry Winn (R-Kan.) such an committee'!> special counsel. Leon envelope. Jaworski. said he met with Sec-Tongsun Park talked to reporter rctary of State Cyrus Vance on the briefly to deny an assertion by ethi,·s committee's efforts to get several committee members that South Korean officials' testimony he is getting increasingly evasive in but rw agreement was reached. the closed-door questioning. 
SllUth Korea has admantly refus-"I may sound evasive but that is ed to turn over thl' officials. Asked not my intention." Park said. "My ahlllll prospccto; for a break-desire is to tell the complete throu h. Ja\\<•rski said "I wouldn't truth. 

exquisite food private bar enter1ainment with dance floor sleeping rooms 

I 
Contact the L. H. Inn -255-4786 or visit us

llI 
2754 Lincolnway East Mishawaka 

\~--iiiTihiisiadidieinititileisi~iireirit•o•l•F•R•EE..~iraifieiof•w•i•n~.~~~wii_tih.~•.~.l•.·.-.---~ 
.----------~-------___.-"
·-------·-·--''~-= 

INTERVIEWS  
Name  Date  
Travelers Insurance  Tues.  March 7  
Target Stores,  Inc.  -CANCELLED  Tues.  March 7  
K Mart. Corporation  Wed.  March 8  
Wilson Foods  Thurs.  March 9  
National Bank of Detroit  Thurs.  March 9  
State Farm Insurance  Thurs.  March 9  
Roosev·elt Univ.  -Lawyers Assit.Prog.  Fri. March 10  
*National Banks  Wed.  March 15  
*MONY  (Mutual of New York)  Thnrs.  March 16  
*General Telephone Co.  of Ind.  Thurs.  March 16  

*Sign-up starts Men. 6, 1978 
Major Desired Bus. or Liberal Arts Maj. Bus. or related field All Majors Bus. Ad/Econ/Bio. Chern Bus. Ad/Finance/Econ/Lib. Arts Acct./Math/CpSc All Majors 
Business/Accounting All Majors All Majors 
WORKSHOPS  
Title  Date  Time  Instructor  Location  
Dec. Making & Value Clarification  3-6  3:15-5:15  Jean Gorman  Stapleton Conf.  Rm.  
Info Gathering & Job Search  3-8  3:15-5:15  Betsy Twitchell  Stude. Affairs Conf.  Rm.  
Assertive Training  3-9  3:15-5:15  Suzanne Areson  Executive Board Rm.  



Cuban participation confirmed in war against Somali rebels 
[AP] -Ethiopia confirmed for the first time yesterday that Cuban troops are manning front lines alongside Ethiopians in the African country's war against secessionist rebels. A rebel leader claimed Cuban paratroopers and women tank crew members have been dropped into the battle zone. 
Guerrillas fighting in southern­most Ethiopia, meanwhile, re­ported killing two Cuban officers. If the report is true, it represents the farthest that Havana's troops have ranged southward in the war. 
"Cubans, who are renowned. for shedding their blood anywhere and at all times in genuine struggle and for the sake of principles, are standing alongside the Ethiopian people's defense forces on the front line,'' Ethiopian head of state Lt. Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam was quoted as saying in a speech in the capital city of Addis Ababa. 

The speech was reported by the British Broadcasting Corp., mon­itored from Ethiopian state radio. 
Direct Cuban military involve­ment has long been reported in the war against Somalia-backed rebels in the Ogaden region of eastern Ethiopia. The rebels, ethnic Som­alis, want to separate their Ogaden homeland from Ethiopia and join it to neighboring Somalia. 
The Carter administration, ex­pressing increasing concern about the Soviet-Cuban role in the con­flict. says more than 11,000 Cuban soldiers and 1,000 Soviet advisers are helping the Ethiopians. 
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance said yesterday in Washing­ton that two Soviet generals are helping direct the Cuban-Ethiopian 
OPEN: MON-·THURS 9AM-11 PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
counter-offensive against the Som­alis. 
The Mengistu regime is heavily dependent on Soviet arms supplies and has acknowledged the pres­ence of Cubans and Russians in Ethiopia. But previously it had not confirmed that Cuban troops were at the front lines. 
A senior Somali rebel leader, Abdi Nasir Sheikh, said in Mogad­ishu, Somalia, that airborne Cuban troops parachuted into the front lines last week at the village of Biyo-Lulue, 62 miles north of Dire Dawa. and at another village east of the strategic walled city ofHarar. 
He said most of the combined Cuban-Ethiopian forces dropped into the area were "completely destroyed." 
The Cubans included crews for Soviet-built armor that had been parachuted down at the same time by Soviet transport planes, Nasir said, and among the tank crews were Cuban women. 
He gave no figures on the number of women or the number of paratroopers. 
Dire Dawa and Harar are Eth­iopia's two last major strongholds in the Ogaden, where Somali forces have captured more than 90 per cent of the disputed region since fighting erupted in mid-July. 
In Rome yesterday, Ethiopia's foreign minister, Feleke Ghedle Ghiorghis, denied that Cubans are fighting in the northern province of Eritrea, where another group of insurgents is trying to secede from Ethiopia. 
Eritrean rebels have claimed that 
1,000  Cuban  troops  are  in  the  
Eritrean  capital  of  Asmara  and  
some  have  taken  part  in  the  
fighting.  

Elvis fans circulate petition for national holiday 
The "Fans of Elvis" in the South Bend area are petitioning to have Elvis Presley's birthday declared a national holiday. 
Petitions arc located at: Gold­blatt's, Just for the Record, Boogie Records, Mac's Record Rack, River City Records, Music Land, and Diltz Records. 
Anyone interested in helpt~g the drive should call Kay at 256-2671. 
UMW president urges contract ratification 
[AP] -On the eve of the first balloting to ratify a contract that could end the 87-day-old coal strike, United Mine workers Pres­ident Arnold Miller went to West Virginia coal country yesterday, and warned that rejection could kill the UMW. 
In Washington President Carter urged the miners to accept the proposed contract. 
Most rank-and-file miners vote on the pact this weekend, but some locals vote today, others as late as Monday. 
Because many miners have ex­pressed reservations -and even anger -about the pact, Miller and other union officials have been airing radio and television ads since Tuesday to urge ratification. Yesterday, he and UMW vice president Sam Church were in West Virginia, urging ratification in a state where 60,000 of the 160,000 striking miners live. 
In Ohio, Illinois, West Virginia and several other states, hundreds of UMW locals were meeting to discuss the proposal. 
Reaction ranged from flat de­nunciation to resigned acceptance, and it was difficult to predict how the vote might go. 
In a telephone interview with the Associated Press from Oak Hill, W.Va., Miller said that if the pact is killed, the union could find itself bankrupt and negotiating separ­ately with 2,600 coal companies. 
He said the Bituminous Coal Operator Association, with which the UMW reached its tentative agreement last Friday, has said it won't negotiate further as a unit if the contract is turned down. 
"I don't see how we can go back to the bargaining table," Miller said. "We'd have to have a huge number of bargaining councils. It would cost us $15 million to bargain under those conditions." 
Miller also said that if the contract is turned down, he expects Carter to take action to force the miners back to work. But he said the miners would refuse to work under a Taft-Hartley injunction, and that would mean he and the union would be fined. "A fine to 
. the union -that would wipe us out," he said. In Washington, meanwhile, Car­ter said of the UMW members: "I hope they willvote affirmatively." At a news conference yesterday, Carter also defended his handling of the strike as "a carefully balanced judgment ... Had we pre­cipitously imposed our will in the coal strike deliberations, that effort 
Indian collection to oe exhibited 
The American Indian Collection of the Notre Dame Art Gallery, some of which was literally rescued from attic storage rooms on cam­pus. will be placed on display beginning Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Hall studios. Some of the items are believed to have been collected by Fr. Edward F. Sorin. the University's founder. 
Select works from private collec­tions will be added to the Notre Dame items. Included are a rare Blackfoot war shirt. beaded mocca­sins. pottery. baskets. paintings, blankets. masks and ritual objects. 
Other exhibits during March include photographs of W. Eugene Smith and recent acquisitions in the permanent collection. The gallery is oren weekdays from 10 to 5 p.m. and weekends from 1 to 5 
p.m. Special evening hours are scheduled from 7 to 9 p.m. on Thursdays. 
SBP-SBVP 

forum slated 
The final forum for Student Body President and Vice-President can­didates will be held sunday at 6:30 
p.m. The forum is tentatively scheduled for LaFortune, but those who wish to attend should call the Ombudsman office (6283) to con­firm this. 
would have been counter-produc­tive." 
The proposed contract would raise wages from an average $7.80 by a maximum $2.40 over three years. The most controversial provisions would make miners pay part of the cost of some medical treatments that have been free; would make the health plan com­pany-run rather than independent; would continue a pension plan that gives recent retirees larger checks than other pensioners, and would allow companies to penalize lead­ers of wildcat strikes. 
Even if the miners ratify the contract, it would not automatically end the strike. The UMW is negotiating with the American bituminous Contractors for a sep­arate contract to cover an estimated 30,000 construction miners. 


Check our huge selection of cut-outs and Imports! the best In new and catalog SUDIIIJ I•·B:I 
Shula's 
I 

rock and roll . . . . MID.·Sit: 11:81·18:1 
Kubiak's Oak Dairy Party Store ------THE STATE LINE!:---·----­
Mountain Music Waterhed Shed  *  Al's Dlxleway Foods  
RIVER CITY RECORDS  
50970 {j.S. 31 North  
277-4242  

Kentucky Fried Chicken
EAT 
'E., 
z ;;; 
Taco Bell 
cl'i 
;;5
~ 
0 North Village
= Mall 
= 
McDonald's 
"""" 
Arb~ 's
= 
Forum Cinema
cc 

~ 
Golden Bear
<!: 
Ramada Inn
::c 
Wend~ 's
Burger King 
St. Mary's 
Notre Dame 

$1.00 OFF! 
Any L.P. Or Tape With This Coupon! 
(lowlhru March 191)
I (One coupon per person. Coupons not valid for cut-outs or on sale items.) 
River City Records
I 

50970 U.S. 31 North
I 

South Bend ~_< 



I 271-4242 ~ 
I, 
:,-:­



. ·... ..
~­


,....,..,. 
Friday, March 3, 197.8
10 the observer 


r 
I I 
o/J Gld'fot~­
~----------=--------, 
TlJKJ PINSTRiPE SU/75, 
7HEI?E! THAT SHJ(Ji.{)
ON£3 LINGN BLAzeR, 
Ai.LUJJ 'trJ(J 70 REPRE­
5EV!3N 5/ll< SH/IUS, 
SENT lHE /NTER£575
fOUR. TIGS, 7HI?Ec 
OF 7l/E REPfJBLIC OF
PlEATl3D PANT5, AND 
VIETNAM IN STY/£ I 
WO PAIR. MNG TIPS! 
I
/ 
7HINI< 
15 7HI5 A OH,WAIT 
Mideast relations improve 
JERUSALEM [AP] -A crack ident Carter later this month. 



Orthodox Christians ,plan synod, strengthen Roman Catholic ties 
appeared yesterday in the deadlock Israel and Egypt are stalled over 
"In our opinion these last years
between Israel and Egypt on a the declaration of principles be­
have been decisive in the prepara­
Mideast peace settlement when a cause Jerusalem rejects Cairo's 
tion of the Holy and Great Synod of
U.S. mediator handed Prime Min­demand for total withdrawal from 
the Orthodox belief,'' Patriarch
ister Menachem Begin his first captured Arab land, and accep­
Demetrius said.
direct communication from Egypt's tance of Palestinian self-determina­
Since Athenagoras embraced
President Anwar Sadat in more tion. 
Pope Paul VJ in a historic encounter 
than two months. 
in Jerusalem in 1964, he strived to
SU, Ombudsrr-an
Begin declined to reveal the 
have all the independent Orthodox 
contents of the letter conveyed by 
churches move jointly on the path
start ride service
Assistant Secretary of State Alfred 
toward hoped-for unity with Ca-
The Student Union ;services 
Atherton. But he said based on the 
tholicism. 
message and the reply he will send Commission and Ombudsman are 
Some churches, especially the 
next week, "there is reason to say sponsoring a Notre Dame-Saint 
Greek Orthodox Church, have for 
the negotiations ... will continue." Mary's ride information service to 
years opposed any. attempt at
help students find rides or riders
It was the first direct contact closer contacts with Rome.
for spring break.
between the two leaders since they A great synod would mark an
To take advantage of this service,
met in Ismailia, Egypt onDec.25. extraordinary event for all Christ­
a student should call Ombudsman,
A day earlier, sources were ianity. Orthodoxy held its last such 
6283, and give the volunteer the
saying Atherton's shuttle mission meeting in the 8th century. 
area code of his destination and
had run aground, having failed to A pre-synodical Pan-Orthodox 
date of departure. The Ombuds­
produce the declaration of princi­conference met in Nov. 1976 to lay 
man will be able to look up the area
ples for peace without which Egypt the doctrinal ground for the great
code if the student doesn't know it. 
and Israel cannot resume hare, synod.
11.<! Ombudsman will use this
bargaining. Demetrius, who succeed Athen­
information to match the student 
agoras in 1972, ruled out any
Atherton planned to return to 
up with other people who have 
pressure on national churches.
Egypt and also visit Jordan and 
called. 
"Howeve1r," he said, "historic­
Saudi Arabia to keep up the 
The ride imformation service is irn 
ally and canonically the Patriar­
momentum until Be~in visits Pres-
operation the entire school year. 
chate is the first among the 


We a serve types uper-Submarines and Mouth-Watering Chicken Dinners., 
DELIVERY WITH OUR PORT ABLE OVENS 
(AP1-Patriarch Demetrius I, spiritual leader of about 250 million Orthodox Christians, says ties with the Roman Catholic Church are "at a most satisfying phase" despite the lack of dramatic events marking recent advances in relations. 
"The common wish is that for the preliminary work to be molded into a concrete form of dialogue," the patriarch said in response to written questions. 
He reported crucial progress toward staging a great synod of all Orthodox churches-something that had long been pursued by the late Patriarch Athenagoras, his prede­cessor who imposed a dramatic tum to effm1s to heal more than 900 years of often bitter and violent separation between the two largest groups of Christiandom. 
The great synod would be some­thing parallel to the 1962-1965 Vatican Ecumenical Council which introduced vast reforms in Cathol­icism. 
Buth the problems the Istanbul patriarchate has to clear in conven­ing it are vastly different from those faced by the centralized Vatican structure. 
The kind of authority Patriarch Demitrius exerts over Orthodoxy differ as much from that of the pope over Catholics as the run­down compound of the 18th century St. George's Church where he lives at Phanar on the banks of the 
Golden  Horn  differs  from  the  
glorious  structure  of  St.  Peter's  
B~:>.silica  and  the  Vatican  as  a  

sovereign state. 
The patriarch's authority is spir­itual with national churches main­taining full independence. 

Orthodox churches and as such the survival of what it considered a 
holds certain prerogatives and fragment of the Byzantine empire 
obligations in the light of which it in its midst. There are less than 
carries its responsibilities." 8,000 Greek Orthodox Christians in 
Two parallel theologic_J commis­Istanbul with a population of 2.2 sions established respectively by million. the patriarch and the pope have Demetrius recognized the value been charged with trying to sort out of "coexistence with Islam" and the doctrinal problems separating praised "cooperation for the ac­Orthodox and Catholics. The first complishment of common pursuits, subject deals with doctrinal teach­like the strengthening of belief in ing about the-sacraments--that is, God, the practice of a higher the main Christian rites from the morality and serving man regard­Eucharist and baptism to the less of race, language and faith." ordination of priests and bishops. Sub-committees of experts are TV talk show scheduled to meet in Rome in 
March. to feature Danehv 
Demetrius said the patriarchate James Danehy, retired Notre -­

and the Vatican have been ex­Dame professor of Chemistry, will 
changing messages to facilitate the be the guest on the television commissions' task. 
program "Straight Talk" tonight at 
Demetrius' first few years as 7 pm and 11:30 pm. an Channel34. 

patriarch have seen a broad re­Danehy will discuss reasons why he 
organization of patriarchal offices, is fighting mandatory retirement. 
better ties with the Islamic world and improved relations with the Candidates so-called Monophysite churches, d h
6 

small ancient groups considered as .or me sc oo/ heretical by both Orthodox and f f Catholics, such as the Coptic, . 0 mee . . 
Armenian, Nestorian and Jacobite There wtll be a meettng for churches. medical school candidates this 
Patriarchate sources described Monday at 7 pm in 123 Nieuwland as "excellent" relations with the Science Hall. All students are Turkish government, which tra-invited to atend the meeting, which ditionally looked with distrust at is sponsored by the pre-med club. 

$1 off pitcher of Miller Beer with purchase of Large Pizza 
410 N. Hill 233-2267 
Minutes from campus 
COLLEGE GRADUATES 
DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant rep­resents the mark of quality and acceptance in today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not give yourself an advant~ge by attending R.ooseyelt Univer­sity's Lawyer's Ass1stant Program wh1ch IS fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 745 ~raduates representing over 160 colleges and universities have chosen Roose­velt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation-Real Estate and Mortg~ges-Employee Benefit Plans*-or become a Generalist*. 
Over  225 law  firms,  banks, corporations  and  govern­ 
mental  agencies  throughout  the  United  States  have  
hired Roosevelt graduates .  
SESSIONS  

0 Spring Day/February 13-May 5, 1978 0 Spring Evening/March 14-August 26, 1978 0 Summer Day;June 12-September 1, 1978 0 Fall Day/Septembet 25--December 15, 1978 0 Fall Evening/September 12, 1978--March 3, 1979 
• evening program only. 

Recruiter in Placement Office Mon. March lOth r----------SEND TODAY----------· 
Llwyer's Alsist.Rt ,..,_ ~ ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) 341-3812 ·~ 430 South Michigan Avenue • Chicago, Illinois 60605 ND 
Please send me information on Roosevelt's Pllrllepl Progr1m. D Spring Day Program D Sprina Evening Progr1m D Summer Dey Program D Fail Day 0 Fall Evening 
Nlme________ . 

Address ___ ·-___ _ 
CitY---··--·---__SUite __ --_ZIP----­Roosevelt UniversitY. 1dmits students on the be1i1 of indl­vidull merit 1nd Without rea1rd to riCe, color, creed, 1ex, or phyliCII hlndiCip. 
~-------------------------­
---~-----~----------------------------------~----------~r---------~-----------.------~--~ 
j 
Sutton named year's best 

NEW YORK AP • Eddie Sutton, the Arkansas coach who brought new respect to Southwest Confer­ence basketball, has been named The Associated Press college coach of the year for 1978. 
Sutton, whose meteoric success at Arkansas helped rebuild the image of a conference largely reputed for its football, was an easy winner in the nation-wide balloting by sports writers and broadcasters announc­ed Thursday. 
Sutton, the Coach of the Year runnerup last year when his Razor­backs won the SWC championship, received 60 votes to 37 for Mar­quette's Hank Raymonds. 
Abe Lemons, Sutton's chief com­petitor whose Texas team tied Arkansas for the regular season SWC championship, finished third in the balloting with 33 votes. 
Ray Meyer, who led surprising DePaul into the Top Ten rankings this season with a tern reminiscent of his powerhouses of the 1940's was fourth with 26 votes New Mexico's Norm Ellenberger round­ed out the top five with 15 votes. 
Sutton's success at Arkansas has 
been done with remarkable haste. 
After developing a winning prog­
ram at Creighton for five years, he 
took the Razorback job four years 
ago and turned perpetual losers · 
into a continual winner overnight. 
His records since taking over at Arkansas in March of 1974 have shown steady improvement--17-9, 19-9, 26-2, and 26-2 this year prior to the SWC play-offs. 
Arkansas' players wear the words "determination" and "dedication" on their warmup jerseys and Sutton has seen to it that they have also been imprinted on their minds. 
"You have to have a love of basketball,'' is the way Sutton explains his philosophy. "We don't want to worry about motivation. We want players whose highlights of the day is coming to practice.'' 
Sutton played guard for Hank lba at Oklahoma A&M and was a graduate assistant to the legendary Aggie coach for one year. He says t it make him a better coach. 
"The one thing I learned from Mr. lba is to understand the role of intercollegiate athletics within the university framework," says Sut­ton. "It is important for the student body, faculty and alums and fans to identify with the young men in your program. 
"Everyone wants to win, but if you lose and everyone knows you are losing with quality people then you don't have problems. We may not have the best · basketball team in the nation. There are a lot of good basketball teams, but no one has a better group of people in its basketball program than we have." 
Sutton has built his success at Arkansas around the play of junior Sidney Moncreif and seniors Mar­vin Delph and Ron Brewer. All three are Home-grown, all three are 6-foot-4 and all three are all-conference, or better. 

Catch the bone crushing action at the ACC Bengal Bouts begin. 
Need ride to LosAngeles over break. Call Killer Bob, Mo-Baby
NOTICES 
FOR SALE

Debbie 8485. Why not cruise your missle into my silo? As a roomie and a friend you are the Gay Community at NO lnfoline. Friday, I love you. greatest!
Ride needed to Washington D.C. for FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PICT1 Mar
11J..12 pm 8870. "We're OK, You're A. G. 
OK." Spring Break -prefer Thurs. March 16. URES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. Call John -8705.$ Joe,
Anyone knowing a cure for Sean
Steal your remaining books for the 

The Student Union is looking for compt­Coughlin's disease please call the free There once was a young man named 
Wanted: Need ride to Bosto area March semester. Pandora's is having a half· clinic. Joe
rollers and staff workers. If interested, 
price used book sale. Selected New

17. Will share driving and expenses. Who certainly thought he would showapplications available at S.U. Deadline 
Books (Tom Robbins, Doonesbury, etc) at

Call Tony at 1436. Tony Pace, that he was really quite ableMonday. 
24% off. Down from Corby's 233-2342. 

I don't care what the behavioral' to drink me under the table, 
Two students need ride to Fort Myers, psychologists and the SPCA say! You are But there's a limit to how low you can go!
Lost: Sliver wire-rim glasses between 

Fla. or vicinity for spring break. Will Stereo equipment -major brand dis­the best for the job. Congrats!
stadium and law school. Please call counts on fully guaranteed, factory­

share driving and expenses. Call Brian at Nice meter. Huh?
Frank
272-Q239. 1153. sealed auto-video equipment. Elliot Enterprises, Pack Court, Buchanan, 

Happy 19th Nancy Cole.......Oink, oink,
Pair of Desert Boots lost at ACC. Call 

OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year-round. Mich. 49107. Call Niles (toll-free) Ask your friends about Bill Roche's new oink! Love,
Craig at 8862. 683-Q121.

Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. "Willy Beer." It made Drew Paluf wha~ A. C. 
All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses he is today.
Lost: Men's digital wristwatch at Bibrary Technics SL-23 turntable. Need money

paid, sightseeing. Free information -Fred and Mary Ellen Kucera ­Bar. Will identify engravings. Reward 
Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, for Florida. Call Kurt 387-8698. Renee Reder. Here is to a fantastic weekend. Thanks
4-4904. 

Berkeley, CA 94704. It is about time you had your ow, for making it possible. Much love,
Personics Compact Stereo system. Eight Personal. One question: if I bring th 
Kim
Lost: Acalculator during Econ. test 2123. track, AM-FM Receiver. turntable,

Need 4 tickets to any weekend home whip will you bring the electric water 
If you picked up one. not yours call 3506. basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. thruster speakers. 6 months old. $150. melon? Signed, Dan,
3001 St. Snetterton of N; Your rose was yelloFound: a scarab bracelet behind Walsh 
WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English con­your carnation was white
hall. Call John 1582. versation. No experience, degree, or N.D. Jacket for Sale. Gold sleeves. Good Attention ND-SMC: don't forget your birthday partyJapanese required. Send long, stamped, condition. $25"00 Call 234-0980. Give to the Society for the Prevention o~ next Monday night!
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, 

self-addressed envelope for details. the Destruction of Music. We want I HAPPY BIRTHDAY.......212 Ramada
Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM 

Centralia, WA 98531 WHY PAY MORE? Flanner Records wipe out disco, punk rock and Debbi
Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page 

has all $7.98 list lpo's for only $5.29. All Boone in your lifetime. MAYBE I WILL... ... . 
minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you 

HOTLINE VOLUNTEERS NEEDED!B• $6.98 list lp's for only $4.59 (plus tax). BRUCEwant the Best." 
come aHotline listener and learn skills t11 Frank Candela? Ha. Ha, Ha. Who 
help people in our community. Next cares? Dear RBR 
Flanner Records. 322 Flanner. Phone 
The Bookie Joint at the 100 Center wants 2741.

training begins March 21 and goes thrv Are you 5'11" and 1851bs. and limbless
to help you stretch your book budget. 

AprilS, Tuesday andThursday evenings. Ugly man is coming .....Save your t11o, or are you a fine specimen of femaleBring your paperbacks for exchange. 
Arrangements will be made for any pennies. anatomy. Reveal thyself! Your's truly,
SMC-ND students who will be gone over class~fied ads 
CYCLOPS
Resumes and personalized cover letters ­

break. Interested? Call Hotline 232-Now is the time for all uglies to get those
efficient expertise. lobo-typed letter 

3344. PERSONALS pennies. MJ, Dorth and MurphService 2806 Mishawaka Ave. Phone Ver, Val and Kenna,
23.1-2550. Wild Sandy,

Need ride for three to the Big Apple, Sophomores! The fever is spreading!! Will we really
Happy belated birthday from the

'New York City for Spring Break. We Get your gym shorts and formal tickets chain dance to 0'Shag???
Typing Done 

can't afford the train so call Tom, Doug or dancin' Irish B squad, Mrs. Lopez, on sale this week, 12-4 in the Class office TB, the Disco kidReasonable Rates 
John 3414. R.L.H., the gang at the Diplomat in in Lafortune.
Call 8086 

Miami, the gang at Corby's who say MAYBE I WON't.. ........ Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Donoho Wanted: GA tix for Loyola. Call Jack "HI" and, of course, Dolly Parton.! DESPERATELY need ride to S. Bend at BLANCO 1724. night. Call 8-2, will pay. 233-7949.
232-0746 Hours 8 AM to 6 I"M. 

Congratulations to Mike Mallen, 331
Tony,

Need ride to Tampa -st. Pete for break. Dear D.A.A. Alumni, who won that fantastic crew
Typing Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 

Rob 1145. Congratulations -and you know the It was nice to finally meet the raffle! rest! "Someday we'll be together!" Mysterious Voice at the other end of the
Every student can vote in the May 

Need ride for 2 to Lauderdale for spring RM line. Sincerely, John Moore, 405 Zahm -1989 has anIndiana primary -If interested, register 
break. Pat 6711. TMK official personal at last.
before Spring Break by calling Mo at 
G
4-1-4001. Laura Belle,

Need ride to Chicago this Friday, March Lenten confessions heard Monday thru 
3. Call Mike 6186. Welcome to the beautiful campus of Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7' Sundance and cowboy ­
One roommate to share Campus View 

Notre Dame. Let's hope that the pm. Anyone wishing to make an First personal of the semester. Fram itApartment. Please call 277-3509. 
Need ride to U. of I. Champaign this appointment for times for confession may in your room(s). Love,
"authorities" let us be, and that the 

weekend-March 2,3.or 4. Call Cindy 7535 phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. MB
Student and Faculty Entertainers: Call weekend does not end too soon. 

or 7961. PS: That's for your ma, S.D.
Tim Ellison (288-5207) if interested in Bub You must see Buchenhagen in the town of

performing at the Good Earth Pub. 

Psychology Research Aid. Part-time. Jereal. He will tell you that Born Usa,
Hey Cocaine cookie,

Call 287-4785 after 9pm. Christians must be elected. Have no pity Happy Personal. Love,
Wanted: Ride home to Florida for I'm glad to hear you got your on the child. He must die. 

Bob
Springbreak. Call David 8697. apartment, but I can still buy my drugs
Need ride to New York (Long Island area) from you?

for spring break. Call Matt 232-4499. Sun., March 5 is Ann Radde's birthday. Jeff,
Typing done in home. Fast accurate Your SMC sis Call her up and wish her a Happy Best of luck this Saturday. Remember,reasonable. Close to campus. Call 

Desperately need GA Loyola tickets. Call Birthday (4-1-4864). "You get what you deserve!" Does that
272-7866 any1ime. Monica Schwarzler..... i love you very

Bill 232-4499 mean you flunk if your halo is cracked?
much. 

Mobo: John
An admirer

Desperate for a ride to or near Tallaha­A belated happy 125th (sorry this late -I
LOST AND FOUND 

ssee for spring break. Will share driving, sorta spent my money foolishly). Michael-
Nashville,

gas and expanses. Call Bill 8858. Good luck on Sunday. Don't worry, I
LOST: one pair of large framed glasses in Happy Birthday, my friend, my love. 

To the quick handed banker, know you'll do great. Love,
a brown case near ACC. Whoever called Your Goodbye Girl

Need ride to Ft. Wayne on Friday March Mama always taught me to beware of "Adrienne"
and said they found them -Where are 

3. Call Diane at 7613. bankers with nice deals to offer. but
they??? Rocky 1773 Dazzling beauty sought! To accompany mama's not here. Would like to discuss Marilee Smith loves me! Signed,

handsome NY'er to America concert.

Need ride to Washington D.C. area for major assets before finalizing merger. Dave Mahler
Found: ablack ski glove with suede palm, Must guess my favorite America song.

spring break -Call Kathi 4-1-5459. An Admirer
right hand. Call 1653. Transpo provided (Porsche) -Chris 

Anyone willing to help bury Joe Wiek in
233-4381 before 11 pm.

Need Riders to Florida -232-8780 Phil. Do you like avocados? Well I Love you. the snow on his birthday call 7865. Leave name and number. Call me anytime.
Need 1, 2, or 3 GA tix for Loyola. Mike,

WANTED Dismas McAIIough-Ciare drinking school Is now
1818.

Need ride to Florida March 17th. Call taking applications to learn to drink the Need rides to Lauderdale for Spring Kathy 6819. Haircuts, trims, styles -Cheap! SMC right way. We do not discriminate
Dear Jap

Break. Call Mary,sharon 7812. 4530, Betsy. against anyone. For more information
Say hello to your "buddy" for me. You

Wanted: ride to northern New Jersey or call sober hours (7 am to 12 noon) ask for
know.......Mr. Personality.

Ride needed to Orlando or Day1ona Beach NYC area for break. Will share driving Megan, small paul. areas for Spring Break. Call Mike at and expenses. Good conversationalist. Hey beautiful, Welcome to NO! Love
Need ride to Ann Arbor this weekend.

1403. Call 4-5362 ask for Jill. always,
Call Kate 12ti4. 

Bear Hug Give me a break. Need ride to Houston. Need ride to Long Island for spring break. 
-
U M OC is on the prowl! Call 2195 for

Jud. 6711. Call 4-1-4606. Save Mary Blazek from the evils of 
~M~
details. 

BATHON!!! Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale. Will share Riders needed to Kansas City :a"'l .....,,,,, ~ 
Steve Horak,

driving and expenses. 6808. return) during Spring break. Share To the yankee with strong shoulders;
Remember that party where you met

driving and expenses. Call Paula Have a nice time in Dayton with all To OU\ , ''..'!::!lay Night Guest Chefs,, · 
me? And you said l was a real sport.

Need 4 GA loyoli tix. Ann (7674) or Lou 283-7372 (or leave message). those beautiful girls..... Enjoy, But not Grazla Mille lor a Mollo Bouno Mill
We'll guess who is over the limit?

(81~). too much. The J.'•l'by G-e
Margo

.... ASouthern Belle ---~-:--:-------..",-·-~ 

12 the ObS&f¥8[ Friday, March 3, 1978 
Irish seek road victory over Dayton 
by Craig Cbval Sportswriter 
Last Sunday's 71-65 victory over Marquette speaks for itself; the Fighting Irish roundballers can play with the best of 'em. In fact, Digger Phelps' crew proved that they can dominate the creme de creme of college basketball, at least for a half. 
But unfortunately for Notre Dame, the NCAA tournament is not scheduled for the Athletic and Convocation Center, and neither is tomorrow afternoon's clash with the Dayton Flyers. Since their 69-66 verdict over UCLA in Pauley Pavillion on December, the Irish have raised some serious doubts as to whether they can beat even a run-of-the-mill club on the road. 
With a 15-2 record in the Univer­sity of Dayton Arena, the Flyers (17-9 overall) can hardly be consid­ered run-of-the-mill. The game is already sold out, and the Flyers are 
1 hungry for a NIT bid, so Saturday 
... will provide the Irish with an excellent opportunity to see if they can do on the road what they did in the second half Sunday--exhibit admirable poise under trying cir­cumstances. 

Notre Dame's defense will be up against a powerful inside-outside combination tomorrow in junior guard John Paxson and senior forward lErv Giddings. Paxson, who managed a dozen points against the Irish in last year's game, will Notre Dame's cagers will be looking to slam dunk the Flyers of bring a 17.2 scoring average into Dayton in an important away contest. tomorrow's contest. A versatile 
..,.,,· 

.---------------------------.. performer who has also seen action 
at a forward spot, Paxson is finding the bottom of the net at a .511 clip. Giddings will be looking to im­prove upon last year's ACC perfor­
*Observer 
mance that netted him 14 points and six rebounds. Dayton's leading rebounder, Giddings is latching on to an average of 9.1 carom~ game. He also averages 13.7 points per outing. 
Joining Paxson in the backcourt






Sports 
will be Jack Zimmerman. Davton's quarterback. Zimmerman is s.econd to Paxson on the club in assists, while averaging 11.2 points. Fresh-

ND track squad faces test 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 
There is but a single discom­forting aspect to an undefeated record, having to defend it upon every occassion of competition. 
The Drake Bulldogs, in town for this Saturday's track meet pose an undeniable threat to the Irish current 2-0 dual meet record. 
"There is no question that this will be the best team we've faced thus far this season," emphasizeed Piane. "Last year Drake beat us c;olidly and many of their top performers return to this year's squad. We're going to try to turn last year's results around but it will take a solid effort on our part to do that.'' 
It will take more than a solid effort from several key Irish per­formers, who are now competition after formers, who are now coming off a weekend free from competition after two consecutive wins over Valporaiso, 113-18, and North­western, 86-45. 
"Actually, a weekend layoff can sometimes be helpful," com­mented freshman shotputter John Shusan 1 "But this early in the ·;cason, I'd personally prefer to compete every weekend to get to Jtnow your competition and get out your opening season jitters." 
However, Coach Joe Piane scheduled the weekend layoff de­liberately to have his team rested, his runners especially. 

I "Last year Drake defeated us by 
I • 45 points," recalls Piane, "but this 
f year, it could go down to the relay
I 
race at the end of the meet." 

If it does, the Irish will have to contend with Jim -who earlier in the season at Mtchigan State r~>-relay spr· 'lf 4:02. The 
Bulldogs also have talent stacked in 
other events as well, particularly in 
the mile and two mile races, where 
Drake boasts Boyd Nansel, who 
placed second in. last year's Notre 
Dame Invitational. Both Steve 
Welch and Dennis VanderKraats 
followed Nansel to the finish line in 
that race, and have formulated 
plans for the Saturday contest. 
"Steve (Welch), Dan (Horgan)and 
I will probably try to run a faster 
pace race in hopes that he'll tire," 
commented VanderKraats, point­
ing out that Nansel will be 
doubling roles by running both the 
one and two mile race. 
"Right now, as far as our training 
has been going,'' added 
VanderKraats, "It's still quite 
early in the season, and we're 
Wilkinson named 
ST. LOUIS AP Bud Wilkinson, 
former University of Oklahoma 
football coach, has been named 
head coach of the St. Louis Car­
dinals of the National Football 
League. 
Cardinals owner Bill Bidwill an­
nounced today that Wilkinson, who 
has been out of coaching since he 
made an unsuccessful bid for the 
U.S. Senate in 1964, will replace Don Coryell as the Cards' mentor. 
Wilkinson won national cham­pionships with the Sooners in 1949, 1955 and 1956, and is considered to be one of the winningest coaches in college football. 
The announcement was a great surprise, as Bidwill knew it would be. 
"I'm just waiting for someone to come up to me and say, 1You sure. came out of left field with this one,'" Bidwill said. "When that happens, I'm going· to say, 'No, right field."' 
doing mostly long distance base work. But we're working hard." 
Short distance men like the Irish Kurt Spieler will have their work cut out against Drakes fine con­tingent of sprinters and hurdlers. 

13. What current pro once scored 44 points in an NCAA tournamentND eyeS PI8Y0ffS game against Notre Dame, the second highest total by an individual 
The Irish are currently in sixth place in the WCHA, one point behind fifth place Colorado Col­lege, with a 12-17-1 record and 25 points. They have just two regular season games remaining against Wisconsin before the playoffs be­gin on March 10-11. An irish victory this weekend would insure a playoff spot: eight of ten teams make the playoffs. 
The other teams fighting for a playoff spot are North Dakota, Minnesota-Duluth, Michigan and Colorado College. Michigan State has been mathematically elim­inated. This weekend Colorado College plays Denver in a home and home series, North Dakota meets Minnesota at Grand Forks, Minnesota-Duluth hosts Michigan Tech and Michigan and Michigan State play a home and home series. 
If Notre' Dame loses two games to the Badgers a chain of events must occur for the Irish not to make the playoffs. First North Dakota must come up with two points, Duluth gain three points and Michigan sweep Michigan State. In the event that Notre Dame finishes tied for eighth place the Irish will advanc:e if they are tied with Michigan and Minnesota-Duluth and miss the playoffs if they tie with Colorado College and North Dakota. 

WNDU-AM will broadcast both 'four, yet lost the game. games on Saturday night at 8:15 I Answers: 1)B 2)C 3)B 4)C 5)C 6)D 7)B 8)B 9)A 10)D ll)D 12)C 13)D and Sunday afternoon at 3:15. 14)A 1·5)C 16)C 17)D 18)C 19)C 20)D 21)C 22)A 23)D 24)B 25)True. 
against the Irish in their 73 year history. A) Campy Russell B) John Johnson C) Elvin Hayes D) Dan Issei. 
14. 
This former pro, who held many records for longeveity, once grabbed 27 rebounds for a Big 10 school against Notre Dame in an NCAA tournament game. A) Johnny Green B) Jerry Lucas C) Julius McCoy D) Leroy Ellis. 

15. 
What former Notre Dame guard dealt out a Notre Dame record 17 assists in Austin Carr's 61-point game? A) Tom Sinnott B) Dwight Clay C) Jackie Meehan D) Mike O'Connell. 

16. 
Between 1964 and 1973 UCLA won the NCAA title every year but one. Who won the NCAA title in 1966 when they defeated a strong Kentucky team 72-65. A) Loyola of Chicago B) Cincinnati C) Texas at El Paso D) Duke. 

17. 
What Pac-Eight school won the first NCAA tournament in 1939. A) UCLA B) Washington State C) USC D) Oregon. 

18. 
A professional named Abdul Rahman won the NCAA MVP as a guard for UCLA in 1964. What was his name when he won the award? A) Don Smith B) Lew Alcindor C) Walt Hazzard D) Bobby Moore. 

19. 
This present member of the Portland Trailblazers holds the Division II record for free throws made in one game, 24. A) Lloyd Neal B) Bob Gross C) Dave Twardzik D) Johnny Davis. 

20. 
This former pro guard is the only player to be named MVP of two Division II NCAA tournaments in a row. A) Sam Jones B) Don Buse C) Earl Monroe D) Jerry Sloan. 

21. 
This veteran NBA forward holds the Division II tournament record for field goals in a game. He scored 22 for North Dakota in 1967. A) Lou Hudson B) Bob Dandridge C) Phil Jackson D) George Johnson. 

22. 
Which of the following schools has not eliminated Notre Dame from the NCAA tournament over the last four years. A) Kentucky B) Michigan 


C) Maryland D) North Carolina. 
23. What star forward was named the most valuable player of the 1966 NCAA tournament despite the fact that his team failed to reach the finals? 
A) Bill Bradley B) Cazzie Russell C) Bob Whitmore D) Jerry Chambers. 
24. Who coached North Carolina to a 54-53 triple overtime victory over a Wilt Chamberlain-led Kansas team in the finals of the 1957 tournament. 
A) Dean Smith B) Frank McGuire C) AI McGuire D) Fred Taylor. 
25. True or False: In last year's tournament Notre Dame out-shot North Carolina 67 percent to 44.7 percent and out-rebounded the Tar Heels by man Jim Rhoden holds down the second forward post, contributing a 
10.2 average. Against Xavier, Rhoden romped for 14 points in the first half before taking the rest of the night off. 

Another rookie, Richard Mont­ague, has started the past two games in place of Terry Ross at center for the Flyers. Ross, who has a fractured cheeckbone, should b~ ready to see action against the Irish. Before Ross suffered his injury, the senior pivotman was averaging 8. 7 points and 6.5 re­bounds. 
Last season, when the Irish whip­ped the Flyers in the ACC, 97-64, Bruce Flowers enjoyed an excellent game for Notre Dame. The 6-8 junior connected on nine of his 13 shots from the field and added a pair offree throws to total 20 points and lead all scorers. Toby Knight 
Tim Bourret :=:=:=:=====:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===================:==================================================================== 
NCAA Tournament Quiz 
========================:================================:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:::Bone's Briefs 
1. 
Only two teams have been in more NCAA tournaments than Notre Dame. UCLA is one, the other is A) Kansas B) Kentucky C) North Carolina D) Marquette. 

2. 
Austin Carr, who averaged an incredible 41.7 points per game for the seven NCAA tournament games he participated in, scored an all-time NCAA tournament record 61 points in the 1970 tourney. His performance came againstA)Dayton B) Miami of Ohio C) Ohio University D) Kentucky. in a game played at A) Dayton B) Miami of Ohio C) Ohio University D) Kentucky. 

3. 
In 1974, Notre Dame won a first round game by 42 points, the largest margin of victory in NCAA tournament play. The Irish defeated A) Ohio University B) Qustin Peay C) Middle Tennessee D) Dayton. 

4. 
The Irish have not been in a regional final since A) 1970 B) 1960 C) 1958 D) 1955. 

5. 
In that regional final the Irish lost 89-56 to the A) Wildcats of Northwestern B) Wildcats of Kansas State C) Wildcats of Kentucky D) Wildcats of Davidson. 

6. 
In 1950 one team lost in the finals of both the NCAA and the NIT. Can y~u name that squad? A)Oklahoma A & M B) Washington St. C) UCLA D) Bradley. 

7. 
What team won both the NCAA and the NIT in 1950, the only team ever to win both tournaments in the same year. A) NYU B) CCNY C) Kentucky D) UCLA. 

8. 
Over the last 10 years, one team has been defeated on two different occassions in the NCAA finals. A) Michigan B) North Carolina C)Kentucky D) Marquette. 

9. 
UCLA has claimed lO NCAA championships. What team is second with four? A) Kentucky B) Indiana C) Oklahoma A & M D) Cincinnati. 

10. 
In 1971 UCLA won its fifth consecutive NCAA championship. According to the NCAA the runnerup spot was vacated. Who met UCLA in that final but was forced to forfeit their hardware. A) Western Kentucky B) Kansas C) UNLV D) Villanova. 

11. 
The most valuable player of that 1971 NCAA tournament was also forced to forfeit his award. Can you name him? A) Jim McDaniels B) Dave Rosbish C) Chris Ford D) Howard Porter. 

12. 
The gentleman speaking at this year's Notre Dame basketball banquet holds the record for the most points scored in one NCAA tournament, 177. Who is this former pro forward? A) Dave DeBusschere 


B) Jerry Lucas C) Bill Bradley D) Jerry Chambers. 
and Duck Williams chipped in 17 

apiece for the Irish, and Rich 'Branning added 14. 
Although the Irish assured them­selves of an NCAA bid with their impressive second-half showing a­gainst Marquette, tomorrow's game could prove to be almost as crucial, especially mentaly. If Notre Dame can go into Dayton, ignore what promises to be a delirious crowd, and defeat the Flyers, the Irish will have that much-needed confidence to win on the road. 
But if Notre Dame suffers a similiarfate that befell the 1973-74 squad when an overflow record crowd of 13,528 saw the Flyers hand a John Shumate-led Notre Dame team only its second loss of the season, that famed "sixth­man" will be sitting on the other bench come NCAA time--in the person of self-doubt. 

i' 



