.., 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, February 16, 1978 
Vol. XII, No. 84 
Action taken to ease coal shortage 
[AP]-A convoy escorted over a it will impose power cutbacks. The help at least two more utilities by reasons, Smith said. Bowen said he was on the same nail-strewn road by national curtailment -15 percent for resi­this weekend. Although he refused Guardsmen, not displaying guns flight back from Washington last guardsmen and an emergency de­dences, 25 percent for businesses to identify them, one of them was but carrying billy clubs,served as week as Larry Reynolds, president claration by President Carter pro­and industries and SO percent for believed to be Southern Indiana backups to state police yesterday. of the UMW District 11, which vided slight relief yesterday for schools -will affect 498,000 PSI Gas and Electric Co., which was They were stationed mainly at covers Indiana. The governor said coal-starved Indiana utilities. customers in 69 of Indiana's 92 listed by state energy officials as in junctions along U.S. 41, running he informed Reynolds then that the 
The coal shipment moved counties. the shortest coal supply next to parallel to the Illinois state line, the state planned to begin coal ship­smoothly through southwestern In­As the situation worsened, Rep. Public Service Indiana. route taken by the convoy. ments this week. diana to a utility generating sta­David Cornwell (D.-Ind.) sent let­The convoys, with state, police Smith said there was no indica­Reynolds acknowledged that, tion, providing less than a full ters to Carter and negotiators for care ahead and behind them and tion how long the 350 guardsmen Bowen said, and replied "he'd day's supply for Public Service the soft-coal industry and the police and national guard heli­mobilized by Bowen would remain suggest that" when the governor Indiana (PSI). The utility announ­United Mine Workers, suggesting copters flying overhead, will move on duty. "I think we're talkikng in ced Tuesday night it will impose that the miners return to work only in daylight hours for security terms of weeks." he said. [Continued on page 3I power cutbacks after midnight under provisions of their old con­Sunday for almost one-half million tract while negotiations continue on Hoosiers. a new one. 
Short-story writer's secret: 
There was more help in Carter's Cornwe11's district includes most action, allowing the state to burn of the Indiana coalfields where the federally required reserves of low­coal moved Wednesday. 

lets story 'take its course'
sulfur coal, as well as high-sulfur or PSI employed the guarded con­"dirty" coal banned by the Envi­voys yesterday, moving 69 trucks by Ed Moran ronmental Protection agency. That loaded with 1,240 tons of coal from could add a week or more to this a stockpile near Princeton, Ind. to Short-story writer and novelist state's dwindling coal supplies. its Cayuga generating station 100 Anne Beattie entertained a capa­
Moments before the White miles to the north. city crowd last night in the MeJilO· House announcement, Gov. Otis R. James T. Smith, Bowen~s exec­rial Library Auditorium, readingBowen said if the request had been utive assistant for police matters, two of her short stories, "Tuesdaydenied, he would order it himself, pronounced officials "very satis­Night" and "Autumn." risking federal reprisals to keep fied" with the operation and said it Beattie, who has written short stockpiles above the 30-day level. would double in size today with 130 stories for the New Yorker maga­''I will risk going to jail before I will trucks in the same area. zine for about five years, summed 
let that happen,'' he said. The only problem Wednesday up her method of writing, saying,Late yesterday, Carter invited was a bed of nails spread over a ''Before I begin writing, I never Bowen and 11 other governors to one-mile stretch of a back road really know what direction the story the White House to discuss the coal leading to the Princeton site, where will take." situation at 3 p.m. today. Bowen two new PSI generating stations Beattie explained that when she planned to leave Indiana for Wash­have yet to be put on the line. Nine writes, she doesn't "map things ington this morning, a state police trucks were delayed with flat tires, out,'' but simply lets the story spokesman said. but they followed the main group ''take its course. When the Bowen's chief energy aide, Wil­after repairs were made. typewriter stops, the story's fin­liam J. Watt, sounded a note of State Police Supt. John T. Shet­ished,'' she stated. reluctant optimism before leaving tle said there was no solid evidence Although she described her for a regional energy meeting in that the nails were the work of works as "melancholy," Beattie Ohio. Watt predicted a new striking coal miners, but he called commented that she tries to be tenative ·agreement to end the 72 it "a typical tactic" and added, humorous, "even if that humor is day coal strike early next week. • 'They, the, nails, were in such a of a dry nature." But he conceded there was no quantity that they had obviously The two works read last evening 
guarantee the miners would accept been put there by someone." focused on the mixed-up aimless it. State police also reported that lives of people in their 20's and It was a rare day of no emer­two bullet holes were found in the 30's. Half-jokingly, Beattie 
gency in the coal crisis, but officials back of one of the trucks. remarked, "Mainly, I write about said harder times were ahead. Although there were no reports of my friends.'' The major indication of that shooting, investigators said the In "Tuesday Night", the main 
Ms. Anne Beattie chats over some chocolate chips after reading came when Public Service Indiana, holes were. recently made, appar­character, a divorced woman, two of her short stories in the Memorial Library Auditorium last the state's largest electric company ently from shots fired at an angle. reflects on the decaying relation­night. [Photo by Ken McAlpine]became the first utility to announce Smith said the convoys would [Continued on page 2] 


CLC questions prohibition of kegs 
by Kathy Connelly 

rector of Lewis, was that before the Fr. Eugene Gorski, rector ofStaff Reporter 
and Phil Cackley present policy was established, Howard Hall, indicated that he was Senior Staff Reporter there were difficulties with keg in favor of the rector discretion parties. Payne stated that she was option, but doubted that Roemer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) at the University when there were would change the policy on kegs. no party laws and kegs were not Also discussed was the possi­
discussed alcohol policy, the keg outlawed. "Every Friday and
directive in du Lac, rector evalua­bility of 21 year-old lounges within Saturday night the kegs JUSt came
tion and social space at a meeting the dorms because a major concern held last night in the Keenan rolling onto campus, and a keg of the CLC rectors was compliances meant a big corridor party,'' she with state drinking regulations. 
basement. 
Student Body President Dave explained. Andrle questioned whether it Bender, chairman of the CLC, Ed Audrie, vice president of would be worthwhile making a requested that the group consider Stanford Hall, said that if the keg policy that would affect only a 
making a recommendation to Dean directive were to be rescinded, that minority of students o~ campus. 
of Students James Roemer that it should not be replaced by Fr. Mario Pedi, ST. Ed's rector, University policy regarding the another policy. This would leave remarked that even though 21 prohibition of kegs on campus be the rectors free to regulate their year-olds do compromise a mino­rescinded. Rectors would exercise own halls, yet they would not be rity, it would be a good idea to have personal descretion as an alterna­liable for violations. a policy regarding 21 year-old 
Bender stated that it was useless

tive to the directive, according to drinking as it would indicate that 
Bender's suggestion. to formulate a campus-wide policy. "we are acting in accordance with He suggested instead that the CLC
Sr. Vivian Whitehead, rector of state laws." Breen-Phillips objected that the make unofficial suggestions to Whitehead said that at a rector's rectors and an official statement to
rector discretion proposal would meeting the consensus of opinion further complicate the existing Roemer urging that he allow rec­favored rector discretion and the situation. Under Bender's sug­tors to use their discretion. ''The founding of common rooms for 21 issue," Bender said, "is not cans
gested policy, she claimed, rectors year-olds. 
versus kegs as containers, but the "What we need is an alternativewould be directly responsible for 
illegal drinking in their halls. facilitation of social interaction." to keg parties," Keenan President Whitehead commented that
Whitehead cited several test cases Mark Huard stated. "We also 
Breen-Phillips had just won a keg need to work on ;;. party format
in which persons have been prose­
Father Eugene Gorski indicated at last night's CLC meeting that with their snow sculpture and
cuted under similar circumstances. policy, though, since the students 
he was in favor of the rector discretion option. [Photo by Ken because of regulations could not
The reason for the current direc­
McAlpine] use it. !lContinued on paae 10] 
tive, accordin~ to Ann Payne, 


.. 
,_News Briefs----.......... 

I.U. classes suspended 
BWOMINGTON, IN --Indiana University President John W. Ryan said yesterday that classes will be suspended from March 4-27 in order to cut campus electric consumption in half once Public Service Indiana's coal stockpiles reach the 40-day level. 
~On Campus Today _ __...... 
12:15 pm mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
12:25 pm lecture, "transcendental meditation and executive health," by dr. harold bloomfield, rm. 110, law school. 
4pm seminar, "reactions of free radicals with transition metal complexes in aqueous solution," by dr. dan myerstein, argonne national lab, sponsored by radiation lab, rad lab conference room. 
7pm meeting, "a christian ministry in the national parks," by john schmidt, recruiting for summer employment in the national park system, mem lib lounge. 
7pm lecture, by robert carsello, transcendental medita­tion series, sponsored by students international meditation society (sims), 242 0 1shag. 
7:30pm meeting, faculty senate, 202 cce. 
7:30pm mass, south bend smc alumnae, lemans chapel, reception following in stapleton lounge. 
8pm presentation, by pete seeger, folk singer, for the sophomore literary festival, mem lib aud. 
8pm senior recital, cheryl pesday, pianist, smc little theatre. 
8pm ice capaded, tickets $6, $5 & $3.50, nd/smc students half price thurs-pm, sat 12 pm & sun 6 pm shows, ace. 
·a prn film, "changed," sponsored by the way interna­tional, room 101, law school. 
6:40-8 am am this morning, mike ridenous & cathy murray, wsnd, 640 am. 
Weather 

Mostly cloudy with a chance of snow flurries today. Highs today in the mid to upper 20s. Variable cloudiness and colder tonight and tomorrow with a chance of snow flurries. Lows tonight around ten and highs tomorrow in the low to mid 20s. 
tbl Obseryer Thursday, February 16, 1978
2 

Storm track causes snow 
by Tim Joyce 
This year the United States is facing one of its severest winters ever. Record snowfalls have occured in most parts of the Midwest all the way to the East Coast, and according to climatolo­
gists, there is still  more  snow  to  
come.  
"One  of  the  reasons  for  the  

severity of this winter is that the predominant storm track is differ­ent this year than it normally is," stated Kenneth Brehob, assistant professor of earth sciences. ''The storm track has located about 200-300 miles further south this year than it normally does." 
In a 30-year period prior to this winter, South Bend had received a mean annual snowfall of approxi­mate.y 70". However, this winter, over 160" of snow have fallen in South Bend, with at least another month of snow expected. 
Brehob explained, "The reason, 
~~e think, for this year's relocation of the storm track is the exception­..lly warm waters of the North Pacific.'' The storm track is also the cause of the heavy snow storms chat the East Coast has been experiencing and also for the record-breaking rains that have been plaguing California, he added. 
In conjuction with this theory, Brehob said, research is being done by a group known as Global Atmospheric Research Project (GARP), to determine what exactly it is that is causing such unusual 
occurrancesin the atmosphere. The main objective of the project is to study possible relationships bet­ween ocean surface pressures and storm trades..-~ '" ' .., • ~ 
This winter, however, has not been as bitter cold as last, when South Bend received over 130'' of snow. The reason for this, accord­ing to Brehob, is that last year cold air was being funnelled southeast from central Canada, saturating the area with extremely cold temp­eratures, while this year the air masses are coming more westerly, southeast over the Pacific, causing California's rain, and then north­east over the Midwest and North­east regions of the U.S. 
Brehob said that the majority of the heavy snow of last month's blizzard came from an unusually low pressure system that formed a little to the east of Northern Indiana. The remainder of the blizzard's snow was a result of 'lake snow,' which is created when below-freezing winds cross Lake Michigan and precipitate with the above-freezing water of the lake. The winds carry the resulting snow off of the lake and dump it east of the lake, Brehob explained. 
The barometric pressure of the system was so low at its center that it res~mbled that of a tropical cyclone, Brehob said. Resulting from the low were high speed wincls, which were recorded at over 100 m.p.h. in Toledo. 
According to Brehob, the record snowfalls of the past two years are not expected to continue. "Despite this winter's snowfall, there is no indication of it being any long-last­ing trend,'' he commented. ''The northern hemisphere is indeed cooling off, due to reflection of particles in the atmosphere, in other words pollution, but that is having only a slow effect and is not really related to this year's snow­fall. What happened this yer occurs ~nly once every 100 years.'' 


Guerrillas reject black rule plan 
SALISBURY* Rhodesia [AP] • Prime Minister Ian Smith and moderate black politicians agreed yesterday on a plan for black majority rule in Rhodesia, but nationalist guerrillas fejected the proposal out of hand and U.S. diplomat Andrew Young expressed fear it would bring a black-versus­black bloodbath. 
"A victory for moderation," Smith called the accord after he and the three black leaders emer­ged smiling from the red­brick negotiating hall in the plush white suburb of Highlands. For ten weeks, the two sides had been arguing over the blueprint of a new constitution calling for universal suffrage and continuing safeguards for whites. 
Young, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations who has been negotiating with nationalist guerr­illas, said in New York that the pact could lead to "another Angola-type war'' with 40,000 guerrillas pour­ing into Rhodesia from nearby Tanzania and Zambia. 
And a co-leader of the guerrillas, immersed in a 5 'h year struggle to overthrow Smith by violence in­stead of talk, dismissed the agree­ment peremptorily. 
"It will not work," said Joshua Nkomo, speaking in Lusaka, the Zambian capital. "The war contin­ues. We now know who the enemies are." 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe, 
Jr.  
Asst. Night Editors:  Margie  
Brassil, Chris Slatt  
layout Staff:  Bart  Corsaro,  

Anne Lorenz, Jim Rudd, Marybeth Hanavan Features layout: Rosemary Mills, Joel Harrington Sports layout: Debbie Dahr­ling Typists: Gwen Coleman, Stacy Weaver, Katie Brehl, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Reader: Ann Gales Ad layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Ken McAlpine 
Move cars 

The Dean of Students Office at the request of theMaintenance Department is asking all students who park in the D-1 and D-2 parking lots to please move their vehicles to the C-4 and C-5 parking lots as soon as possible. 
The C-4 parking lot is directly south of the stadium, and the C-~ lot is south of the ACC. 
As soon as the vehicles are moved, a special effort will be made by the Maintenance Depart­ment to remove the snow from the D-1 and D-2 lots. 

SCOTTSDALE MALL 
F~EE!!! 
Soft drink ·with 3 items TACOS • eA81 TACQ 
• 
IIIRifOS • TAIIALIS 

• 
EIICIIlADAS • TAeO DOC 

• 
TO$fADOS • lEAl TACO 

• 
IAIIEQ.E TACO 

• 
SPAIIISI lOT OOi 

• 
CIIEESEBURCER "We carry a line of 




egetarian Foods. 

Nkomo's forces operate from bas­es in Zambia. He and his partner in the Patriotic Front alliance, Mozambique-based guerrilla chief Robert Mugabe rejected the Salis­bury talks in advance as a "farce" and did not attend. 
Young, who is black, said after yesterday's announcement that the United States and Britian now would have to bring black moder­ates and guerrillas together, but Nkomo dismissed that idea as "nonsense." 
Nontheless, Smith was jubilant. 
"We have succeeded in over­coming because we have shown trememdous patience and we were not prepared to give in,'' said Smith. 
He led Rhodesia's 263,000 whites in declaring independence from Britian 12 years ago to forestall handing over power to the 6. 7 million blacks and ending the white control that began in the 19th century days of colonization. 
The eight-point agreement under whichSmithshoulddo just that calls for one-man, one-vote elections to a 
100-member parliament,  with  28  
seats  reserved for  whites  for  at  
least ten years.  
The  accord  prescribes  a  bill  of  

rights and protection against nat­ionalization or seizure of property and land; an independent judiciary, public service board, civil service , police and army; guarantees that 
Beattie attempts 'retreats' 
[Continued from page 1] ships in her life. Tuesday nights have become her "nights off", when she retreats from the people around her. This arrangement, however, ultimately fails, for she realizes that she cannot do without the relationships, bad as they are. In "Autumn," the main charac­ter Elaine's relationships with the people in her life are insecure and jumbled. Beattie offers no resolu­tion to her toale; the story finishes as Elaine whizzes down a blizzard­threatened road in a car with a lover she hasn't seen for over a year. 

pen~ions be freely paid outside Rhodesia and permission for Rho­desians to maintain double citizen­ship. 
Still to be resolved are the nature of an interim government to draw up the majority rule constitution, the final shape of the document, the future makeup of the armed forces -now 80 percent black but led by whites -and dates for the elections leading to black rule. 
Smith agreed to meet agian today to begin discussing the transition with the three black leaders ­Bishop Abel Muzorewa, Chief Jer­emiah Chirau and Elliot Gabellah, a stand-in for the Rev. Ndabningi Sithole. 
Public speak-out to be held 

The South Bend Commission on 
·I
the Status of Women will hold a 
public speak-out for women on 
Saturday, from 2 to 4 p.m. at the 
Y.W.C.A., 802 N. Lafayette Blvd. 
The speak-out will focus on 
equality for women with respect to 
social security, pensions, insurance 
and taxes. The discussion will be 
moderated by members of the 
Commission's legislative commit­
tee and a guest panel with exper­
tise in specific areas. 

The commission wHI use the 
testimony as a basis for future 
advocacy, in an effort to identify 
the issues that have a high priority 
for women of the South Bend area. 
For further information, contact 
Madonna Kolbenschlag at 
234-5771. 
The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and v~tlon periods. Tt)e Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions m•y be purchased for 120 per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana. 46556. 
. The Observer Is • member of the Auoclatecl Press. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 

\ 
' 
I
thisfriday and eve#ry l friday 5 :15 mass & ! supper ~ 
J 
·i 
l I 
(:cttnpu... 
'"'""''rv 
pplication



are n.o.,
available 
Direct any questions to Rob Civitello 
272-4577 
1 
Thursday~·February 16, 1978 the observer 3
Due to coal shortage 
. , 
... 


Electricity cuts t~ begin in Indiana 
[AP] -Public Service Indiana's 498,000 customers will be the first to feel the energy pinch when the utility implements mandatory elec­trical curtailments just after mid night Sunday. 
For the state's · other major 
electric utilities, coal supplies still 
hover above the 40-day level, the 
stage which triggers the conserva­
tion program ordered last Monday 
by the state Public Service Com­
mission. So far, utility spokesmen 
sav, voluntary compliance with the 
order has helped maintaim the coal 
stockpliles. 
Public Service Indiana President 

Hugh A. Barker said the utility will have reached the 40-day supply by midnight Sunday. He noted the decision was announced days in , advance "in order to provide all affected customers with maximum lead time to meet the emergency." 
When supplies dwindle to the 
40-day stage, educational institu­
tions must curtail their electrical 
useage by SO percent, commercial 
and industrial customers by 15 percent. The conservation order ted collection points or by using also calls for the elimination of such night depositories. dispensable uses as operating At a hearing last week before the night sports events, recreational commission, PSI reported that facilities, museums, galleries and pleas for voluntary conservation historical buildings as well as most had resulted in a 2-6 peri'P.nt outdoor lighting and after -hours decline in electricity use. "Since clean-up and building mainten-then, we have noted an increase in ance. that," Vincent said. 

PSI, the state's largest utility, "Every bit of conservation now serves nearly 62,SOO commercial will heop keep people at work and and industrial customers. who use getting a paycheck,'' Barker said. about 60 percent of all the electri-"What is really essential to end the city it produces, Barker said. emergency of course, is for the coal Firms that have more than o:~e miners to return to work and plant served by PSI have been told normal coal shipments to resume." that they can meet the order by Officials of Indiana University, making a 25 percent cutback on which is served by PSI say it will be their total energy consumption, impossible to operate on just a 50 rather than on a plant-by-plant percent supply of electricity. And basis. Barker said the policy is on Tuesday, IU's faculty council designed to minimize the impact of asked · President John Ryan to the curtailments on plant opera-suspend classes from March 4-26. tions. But Purdue has managed to make . PSI will extend its own conserva-· the transition to half power, said tion efforts by shutting down its SO university treasurer and executive customer service offices "for the vice president Frederick R. Ford. duration of the emergency," said "Purdue will make every effort to spokesman David Vincent. He said continue classes until the regular payments can be maae at designa-spring break dates of March 4," he 
Conservation efforts begin to maintain dwindling coal supplies 
[Continued from page 1] said there would be security for the shipments. Reynolds said Tuesday night Bowen overreac­ted by calling out guardsmen. Despite the activation of the guard and mandatory power cut­backs ordered by the Public Service Commission, the coal crises has had fewer serious affects in Indiana yet. That respite, however, ended with Public Service Indiana's announcement that it would reach the 40-day supply level triggering cutbacks at midnight Sunday. Spokesmen at other utilities said voluntary compliance with the or­der and relatively mild weather hav have helped maintain coal stock­piles. Southern Indiana Gas & Electric 
would not say on Wednesday what to cut their electricity use 25 
level its coal supplies were at or percent,. when cutbacks would be imposed. "The hell of it is it could crash on said it will decide that question us," said John F. Coppes, director after meeting with large users of the Indiana Employment Secur­today. (~ ity Division. "Everybody could be 
"The way the conserv-..tion thing going 'til the last day and then ­is showing some results and with whammo! temperatures moderating slightly, The immediate effects will be we would not necessarily use a hardest on schools, who must day's supply of coal in a 24 hour cancel or reschedule all night petiod," said Warren Widenhofer, sports events. spokesman for Indiana & Mi<:higan Terre Haute, the state's sixth l::.lectric Co., the state's second largest school system, announced largest utility. It has a 47 day Wednesday it will switch to a stockpile of coal, Widenhofer said. three-day week starting Monday. 
There have been minimal layoffs Hot lunches and hot showers will so far -about 700 atplants in Terre be eliminated. Haute and Peru, but none this Indiana University, served by 
week-but Watt has predicted S-10 PSI, has said it might be unable to percent unemployment once busi­cut back SO percent. The campus nesses and industries are required faculty has recommended the 
[Continued on page 111 

Bar-B-Que Restaurant & 
&



LEE'S
BEER Lounge 
Featuring the finest in hickory smoked barbeque -cooked over an open pit with special sauce 
1132 S. Bend Ave  4-3 am Daily  
Phone  Closed Sun.  
289-0639  and Mon.  


SENIOR SNOW PARTY 


said in a statement issued yester-results and with temperatures day. "Only a special request from moderating slightly, we should not the Indiana Public Service Comm-necessarily use a day's supply of ission or the governor would coal in a 24-hour period. It would change that status." appear if this-continues and if 
In addition, Ford said, "we are temperatures continue to moder­preparing plans to close the univer-ate, we may not reach our 40 days sity after March 4, should that until the middle or late next week." become necessary. For students, !PALCO is awaiting permission to this would mean an extension of burn its ten-day reserve supply of spring break and a possible re-low-sulphur coal, which it is re­scheduling of commencement. The quired to stockpile for use during a number of weeks of extension pollution emergency. must, by necessity, be uncertain at "We have talked with the neces­this time." sary state officials and we under-
The situation hasn't reached the stand Gov. Otis R. Bowen has critical stage yet for Indiana and petitioned President Carter to Michigan Electric Co. (I&M) and waive the environmental regula­Indianapolis Power and Light Co. tions which require us to keep a (IPALCO). . supply of low sulphur coal on hand. 
"As of Tuesday, we were at 47 We're waiting for the response:" days," said I&M spokesman War-Hardesty said the utility has a 50 ren Widenhofer. "The way the day supply of fuel, which includes conservation thine: is showine: some coal and oil. 
Board of Regents will meet to discuss SMC budget 
by Jean Powley The board will make no decisions 
Saint Mary's Editor on either the new 21-Club or 
parietals, Duggan said. Such 

Saint Mary's 27-member Board issues are under his jurisdiction. of Regents will meet this weekend · Saint Mary's Board of Regents to discuss· the budget, student fees, consists of 18 lay persons and nine salary adjustments, tenure and Sisters of the Holy Cross. The ~d raising, according to Presi­
board meets three times a year. dent John M. Duggim. facility, new
· The athletic a .Safford to deliver 
library' an addition to the science 
building, possible renovation of the 
lecture tonight

existing library into a student center, scholarships and general Frank Safford, professor of his­endowments will all be discussed tory at Northwestern University, with the board by Arthur Franzreb, will deliver a lecture entitled the college's fund-raising consul­"Political Patterns ·of Nineteenth tant. And although .the . athletic Century Spanish America," facility is not yet completely paid tonight at 8 pm in the LaFortune for, Duggan emphasized that "he Ampitheatre.will not let the gym ~e a stumbling ·· The lecture is-sponsored by the block to the building of a new history department and. is open to library.'' • _ the public. 
In addition, the board's various committees (development, educa­
tion, student life, finance and alumnae) will meet the boar 1 members , will tour the Centu•y Center and the board will view ,n art display and drama and music performances presented by the fine 

GUEST APPEARENCE 
MICHAEL 'MURPHEY 
jf 
:'1 
I' ' 
..\ 
.. ·.~ 
... A,l 

THURSDAY MARCH 9th Bpm 
.NOTRE.DAME

PRICES $7.50 & $8.50 ACC 
Ticket sales start this Monday Feb 20 at Student Union Ticket Office M -F, 12-~ and ACC Box Office 9am to 5 pm 0 TICKET LINES MAY FORM AT THE ACC UNTIL 

Thursday, February 16, 1978 
4 
the observer 




Carter calls coal factions to Capitol 
.. 
WASHINGTON (AP] -President Carter won agreement for resumed negotiations in the 72-day coal strike after defiant industry repre­sentatives consented to a White House meeting with union bargain­l ers. The White House said the first seession would begin at 8 p.m.I Industry officials at first defied a 
l 
presidential call to resume talks. But they later reversed themselves, saying that "appropriate condi­tions'' had been agreed to in advance of the meeting. 
I 
With effects of the strike mount­ing daily. the administration has come under increasing pressure to bring both sides in the dispute to the bargaining table. Power curtail ments have been ordered in some 
I states, mass layoffs are threatened in the auto and steel industries and National Guardsmen are on duty in Indiana helping state troopers ride shotgun over coal convoys. 
Carter stepped directly into the strike on Tuesday, calling on both in the White House and threaten­ing "stronger measures" if neces­sary. He said that invoking the 
strike  halting  provisions  of  the  
Taft-Hartley  Act  are  among  his  
options.  

United Mine Worker (UMW), President Arnold Miller swiftly agreed to resume talks. The Bituminous Coal Operators Associ­ation (BCOA) was silent overnight, then turned defiant, telling Labor Secretary Ray Marshall that a resumption of the talks would be a mistake. 
But the BCOA had a change of heart a short while later after Carter, reportedly outraged over the industry's refusal, brought heavy pressure on industry leaders. 
"It was an affront to the presi­dent," one administration source said of the initial refusal. 
To placate the industry, Miller agreed to add three influential members of the union's rebellious bargaining council to his original 
sides to resume talks immediately · six-man negotiating team. 
¥---•Its Miller Time Ae;ain-I 
The bargaining council voted overwhelmingly Sunday to reject a tentative settlement that Miller negotiated. The rejection raised serious doubt over the embattled union chiefs ability to negotiate on behalf of his members. 
Miller met with his bargaining 
council  for  over  an  hour  in  a  
morning session, but declined  to  
meetwith reporters afterwards.  

The three new bargainers, dis­trict union presidents who voted against the earlier settlement, are Jack Perry of District 17, headquar­tered in Charleston, W.Va.; Kenneth Dawes, District 12, Springfield, Ill.; and Tommy Gaston of District 23, Madisonville, Ky. 
Industry sources feel that giving the three direct involvement in the new negotiations will help win bargaining council approval of a new settlement. 
Marshall went to the White House at mid-morning and spent several hours with members of Carter's staff, telephoning BCOA 
Class elections upcoming 
by Tim Sullivan 

In conjunction with the Student Activities Office, the Senior Class officers are organizing this year's class elections, to be held April 4. 
Petitions for nomination may be picked up at the Student Activities Office beginning 8 a.m. on March 
28. 100 signatures are required before any ticket can have their names appear on the ballot. Students may sign more than one petition, but only for their respec­tive class election. 
Signed petitions are due in the Student Activities Office before 5 
p.m. on Thursday, March 30. Before petitions are distributed, each ticket must submit their platform stating the viewpoints of their ticket and what they hope to accomplish if elected. 
Campaigning will begin after March 30 and run until midnight April 3. Expenses for the cam­paign may not exceed $50, not including miscellaneous items, such as tape and staples. No donations of money are allowed. Receipts for materials purchased are required to be submitted to the Student Activities Office by 5 p.m. on April 3. 
Posters may not exceed 11 by 17 inches and cannot be placed on any exterior area. A copy of any and all posters must be submitted to the Student Activities Office before the posters are displayed. 
The Election Committee, which consists of the four Senior Class officers, is the final arbitrator in case of disputes. Pat Flynn, as Senior Class president, is chairman of the Election Committee. 
Write-in ballots are allowed and will be counted, providing all four names are printed on the ballot. There will not be a Yes/No ballot, even if the ticket is unopposed. To win the election, a ticket must receive SO percent plus on vote. If a runoff is necessary, it will be held April 6. 
Balloting for hall residents will take place in the respective halls between 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. and between 5 and 6 p.m. Off-campus residents may vote at the Huddle between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
"We want to alert everyone as to when the elections are," com­mented John Reid, Assistant Director of Student Activities, ''and get people thinking about running. Being a class officer is a rewarding experience, and we would like to get as many tickets interested as we can.'' 
Anyone with questions concern­
ing  class  elections  should  call  
either John Reid at  7308  or  Pat  
Flynn at 233-6773.  

1978 St Mary's College 

SUMMER PROGRAMS 
[L@~IDJ@~ 
(May 23-June 23) Travel in Ireland-Scotland-France 
[ffi@lli}~ 
(June 22-July 21) Travel in Franca-Germany-Switzerland 
CLASSES AVAILABLE IN Art, Business, History, Italian, Theater 
~~][p@ 
Prof. A. R. Black . • . SMC 284-4948 Home 272-3726 
-----------------------------------------~--­
~ ~ ~ 
~~ »~ "d' 

-~~ -~~ Thursday ~~~~ ~ February 16 
'"~ 
at The Library 
7-lOpm $1.50 Pitcher of Miller $ .75 Pina C~das
• 

$ .50 Super Special
' 

~ree Doorprizes ~ 


'lporisored by Student Union Social Commission 
I 
f 
1 
I
! for 

1I '1.09 
I 

WITH THIS COUPON OFFER GOOD THRU MARCH 4, 1978
• 
1
I 2051 Niles Ave. 

leaders to pressure them into resuming talks. 
Earlier, E. B. Leisenring Jr., chairman of the BCOA, wrote Marshall that Carter should sum­mon warring factions within the union to the White House insead of calling in the bargainers. 
''Collective bargaining has worked," he wrote. "Long weeks of good-faith negotiations produced an agreement with the top officers who came to the bargaining table ... Collective bargaining succeeded ­an internal union apparatus has failed." 
"~fhe country should not be held hostage to any group which seizes the energy jugular," Leisenring's letter said. "The union must get its own house in order.'' 
The council's objections to the tentative contract focused on pro­posed fines and other disciplinary measures to control wildcat strikes, loss of automatic cost-of-living increases, deductibles for health care that previously were free, company takeover of health and pension systems now run by inde­pendent trustees and changes in holiday arrangements. 

When was the last time your phono cartridge and turntable had a tune-up? 
Records that sound out-of-tune and distorted may be the victims of aworn stylus or astereo cartridge that is not properly tracking. We are sponsoring a "cartridge clinic" to help you locate potentially damaging defects in your turntable or changer system at no cost to you. Using Shure-developed precision test equipment and test records, we will clean your stylus and check your turntable or changer system (no matter what brand of magnetic cartridge you own) for proper phasing, turntable speed, channel balance and separation, antiskating, trackability, arm balance and stylus track­ing force. Bring in your turntable and magnetic cartridge only. The potential improvements in performance and savings in repair costs are well worth your time and effort, and the clinic won't cost you 
a cent.  The Cartridge Clinic will be held  
D  SHURE  
February 17 and 18 ,, 12 'till 8:00 p.m.  
at 421 N. Hickory Rd., So. Bend  

(Across from Town & C_ountry Shopping Center) Ph. 232-2430 

\ 
I 
Limit: one coupon per person. 
I 




,'1Jutti!f
~~· 
fO~ ct: 
5105 1013 Western Ave. 
I St. Joseph, West McKinley South Bend 1 Mich Mishawaka, lnd lnd 
1 -·--·--·--·......·-·--·----·-------.._<._o._p_e~!!~~~-~o_)l
'-'--------­

Foreign steel cuts US profits 

by Marti Hogan 
Edl~r-ln-Chlef 

"The central economic problem 
facing most steel companies is 
profitability, or lack of it," said 
Francis Adams, comptroller of 
United States Steel (USS) Central 
Division, Chicago. Adams spoke 
last night on the economy of the 
steel industry and its impact on 
capital formation as part of the 
American Scene Lecture Series. 
Inadequate profitability is 
nothing new, Adams began, but 
with the recent developments in 
cases of dumping foreign steel, 
steel companies are "Involuntarily 
liquidating themselves." (Dump­
ing, which is illegal, occurs when 
foreign producers sell their product 
at prices lower than their cost.) 
"Huge quantities of imports are entering the country and they are doing so at dumping prices which are unfair and illegal." Adams said. He noted that while these dumping prices help employment in Japan, the companies do not profit from the sales. ''The five largest steel companies in Japan incurred losses of $160 million in the first half of 1977," he said. "When they are producing nor­mally, they keep the steel in their own country, but when they have an over supply, they dump in our market to keep theirs going." 
The Committee for Wage and Price Stability investigated the dumping charges finding that imports set a new record, 20 million tons of steel, this year. The committee set up "trigger prices," a scale of minimum prices, based on the most effective producer which it found to be Japan. (Adams disagreed with the finding. 
Even though production costs in Japan are 15 percent lower than those in U.S. steel companies, Adams believes this does not make them the most effective producer.) The prices include the cost of transportation and duties as well as production and raw materials. 
The trigger prices are designed to offset problems which domestic steel companies have had in the past trying to get the government to investigate dumping cases. ''We had to investigate our own cases before,'' Adams explained. "We sent people to Japan to play James Bond in an attempt to investigate the prices.'' Only a large company can afford to do this he said, and even then it takes almost a year to gatAer all the necessary information. 
The trigger prices which are scheduled to go into effect Feb. 21, are intended "to trigger" the government immediately into investigating cases of dumping. "We haven't seen all the prices," Adams said, adding that if they are too low, "they won't solve any­thing. We have no worry if it (the imported steel) comes in at fair prices, though, because then we can compete." 
According to Adams, in the last 10 or 12 years, production capital., 
Transcendental Meditation Thurs Feb.l6 7:00 
need resumes in a hurry? 

~~·~~If (~~ 

insly·prints 
the wi: of the printm,biz! 
rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2.85 203 N. Mam SoRP."d 289-697 
has remained at the 1960 level, while steel consumption has increased nearly two-thirds during the same period. Steel consump­tion in 1977, mostly for consumer goods, was the third highest in the steel industry's history. In terms of profit, however, "U.S. Steel didn't earn a cent,'' Adams said, adding that the shipments were the same as they were in 1976 when USS was in the black. 
The Domestic Steel Companies project increases of 2 and one quarter percent annually to 1985, and $6.4 billion per year is the capital figure they expect to need by 1985. "If the steel industry is to meet these requirements, more capital must be generated from internal and external sources," Adams stated. He also explained that if the cash flow falls short of the expected need, ''we will have 
higher priced imports  similar  to  
what  we  have  now  with  the  oil  
situation.''  
"These  things  don't  need  to  

occur," Adams stressed, summa­rizing the steel industry's solution 
4P 
in four points: 
-better level of profit. 
fair import policy that prevents dumping. -more realistic environmental policy. -tax legislation aimed at promot­ing capital formation. 
During the question and answer period, Adams explained in detail how steel companies can increase their levels of profitability. Several "stand-by plants" which were kept open for peaking conditions or high demand periods are being phased­
out.  Also  Administration  costs  
have  been  reduced  almost  10  
percent.  

Adams explained that laid-off workers have not really felt the impact of the "tightening up or slenderizing'' because they receive umemployment as well as Supple­mentary Unemployment Benefits (SUB), which add up to approxi­mately 85 percent of their usual take home pay. Adams warned, however, that "Unless we have growth, they'll be looking for jobs." 


carnPLI5 

for Tl Equipment Group 

Match your degree to our multitude of openings. 
(U.S. Citizenship required) 

-------------------------------Degrees------------------------------­
Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering Computer Science 
-

Mechanical Engineering Manufacturing Technology (Software/Hardware) 
----------------------------Openings-----------------------------­

Engineering/Computer Software/Hardwa re 
Radar Design Antenna Design Guidance Control Systems Infrared Technology Microwave Development Analog/Digital·Design PWB Engineering Product Support Engineering Quality and 
Reliability Assurance Process Engineering Human Factors Engineering Signal Processing Acoustic Systems Logic Design 
Digital & Logic Circuits Stabilization Systems Environmental Systems Environmental Design Airborne Computers Cryogenics-Heat Transfer Navigation Systems Computer-Aided Design 
& Manufacturing Distributed Computer 
System Design Minicomputer Operating 
Systems Engineering Applications 
• Assembly, Pascal, PL-1 
Fortran on Minicomputer &IBM370 
Live in Dallas. 

Systems Analysis Display Systems 
Manufacturing 
Project-oriented Manufacturing involving: 
• 
Coordinating Manufacturing Schedule Commitments 

• 
Cost-Control/Budget Development 

• 
Use of Real-Time 


Computer Systems Manufacturing Supervision Assembly Methods Fab Methods Tool Design NC Programming 

The Southwest's largest and liveliest metropolitan area. 
Discover all the glitter and glamour, spectacular sport and high fashion Dallas is famous for­
yet an economical place to make a home. Cost of living is way below the urban U.S. average. And 
there's no state income tax. The country's 8th largest city has year-round sunshine plus lots of 
lakes and facilities to enjoy it. The area has 34 colleges, 102 major medical facilities, and a 
wealth of major media and entertainmer.t. 
Interviewing on Campus 
., 
February23 

If unable to interview at this time, send resume to: Martha Marshall/Texas Instruments/ 
P. 0. Box 6015, M.S. 222/Dallas, Texas 75222. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
An equal opportunity employer M/F 
, , .a:, ....• .. ~· 


Thursday, February 16, 1978 ·
the observer . 
., 
.

1nter onderland 
by molly woulfe 
Well, one thing is certain--1 am a warm weather person. 
IcicJes terrify me--they resemble dag­gers. Or fangs. Snow gives me a rash. I once bumped into a snowman in a dark allev and fainted. 
My older brother, a sophomore at Notre 
Dame, aware of my condition, warned me 
to apply to the University of Hawaii and 
avoid the South Bend area when I was a 
High School senior. I didn't pay any 

attention to him. I thought he didn't want · 
me around to borrow money. 
Also, as I am from the Chicago area, I assumed that if I could tolerate those hellish December winds off Lake Michigan I could cough, sniffle, and wheeze through any winter weather. (Even the late Mayor Daley couldn't do anything about those icy gales). 
With that naive attitude. I landed in South Bend. Autumn was breath-taking-­leaf-stewn campuses, football games, rings around the moon. The Indian summer 
lasted well into November. I can even remember wearing jeans, a T -shirt, and a light windbreaker to cJass in early Decem­ber. 
Then the· world fell apart. 
One morning I was awakened by a half-strangled gasping coming from my prized Persian Violet on the windowsill. As I clutched my pillow in shock, she shuddered, shot me one dying, accusing glance, then collapsed. Her stems twitched briefly, then were still. (I've had nightmares ever since(. 
I was frantically fumbling for a pulse when "Kate from across-the-hall burst through the door. "Hey, Woulfe, you have any long johns I can borrow?" 
I numbly relaesed my plant's limp stem and covered her with a Kleenex. "What?" "Long johns. Gotta pair you can lend me?" 
"LONG JOHNS! My violet just died, and YOU'RE in here demanding my UNDER... " 
"I'll send a Mass card," interupted Kate impatiently. "And it's your own fault-­look, you left your window open last night.'' 
Sure enough I had. Oh, God! Would my other plants drag me before an American Botanist board on the charge of plant­slaughter? I slammed the window shut, but not before glimpsing the deadly shroud of snow covering the campus. "Hey, it snowed last night!'' 
''A regular Einstein,'' groaned Kate. "Wen, can I borrow your long johns?" "I don't have any. Heck, I haven't even put away my summer cut-offs yet.'' 
"I'han.ks, anyway. Hey, want me to dial Campus Ministry and have a priest come up to give your violet the last.rights?" 
"Get out!" 
.. ....
-
My friend exited, callously ye)ling "Bring out your dead!" a Ia Monty Python down the hall. I shuffled to the basement and removed my winter coat from storage. Oh, well. I thought, so it snowed a little. Big deal. I can hack it. Chicagoans are 
rough and tough---like Alligator Baggies. I'll just have to remember to walk on the sidewalks. 
I dressed and stepped outside; a mistake. 
Chicago winds slap. South Bend tempests stab and sting. The cold rakes savagely through layers of wool and cotton, bites through gloves as if they were paper, claws at your face. And the flying snow spitefully attempts to blind and choke you. 
In twenty seconds I was back in my single on third floor and defrosting on the heater, wishine-I could join mv violet. 


Well, Chicago, 1 mused, the title 'Second City' suits you. South Bend is definitely #1 in the 'Rotten Weather' category. 
I decided to try to cope. As the weeks passed I went bankrupt from investing in heavy sweaters, Beach .3oy records, and 
blackberry brandy. I began popptn~ 500 mg. of Vitamin C a day. And when South Bend was engulfed with a 40-inch wave of snow I calmly locked myself in my room and refused to leave until all the roads were plowed. I lived on a box of Ritz crackers and the rest of my plants (so now the little brutes can't report me). 
The breaking point came last week, when I was slip-sliding my way to the cafeteria with my friend Colleen. In her short lamb's wool jacket and suede boots, she was gracefully skirting patches of ice; I was stumbling after her in my stunning 
... . 

three-year-old coat, chic blue-and-gold golf 
cap, and unmatched gloves. I tripped 
twice and began to mutter under my 
breath. Col began to hum "Let it Snow." 
That did it. 
Weeks of sleet, snow, and slush passed 
before my eyes. My mind snapped. 
Before Colleen could stop me I had kicked 
two snowmen in the guts and driven an 
icicle through the throat of another. 
I was charging at a fourth when Col 
grabbed my arm and dragged me away. 
"What the hen are you doing," she 
demanfied, towing me into a parking lot. 
"You have something against snowmen? 
Or are you just a sadist?" 
"I hate this weather!" I screamed, 
pulling free. "I want to see the sun! I 
want leaves on the trees! I want grass!" 
"Hey, shut up," said Colleeen ner­
vously. 
"I want a tan!" I yened, beating my fists 
on a Volkswagon. 
"Quiet down!" ordered my companion. 
"Now listen carefully to me. Winter isn't 
all bad. There's lots of fun things you can 
do." 
"Like what? Get frostbite? Slip and 
break my neck? Sounds like a riot!" 
"You can ski." 
"I'm scared of heights," I snapped. 
"Ice skating?" 
''The last time I ice-skated I fell through 
the ice of the Little Calumet river. I was 
eight years old. My brothers and sisters 
stood around laughing their heads off. 
LAUGHING! Never again." 
"Sledding? suggested Colleen wearily. 
''Once I veered onto an expressway and 
sent a Pinto into a ditch. There's no way 
you'll ever get me on a sled again!" 
"You have a terrible attitude," Colleen 
said in disgust, heading back toward the 
dining hall. I didn't make it. Three 
outraged upperclassmen, the architects of 
one of the snowmen I'd wasted, dumped 
me into a snowdrift. 
Even as I type this now, the wind is 
rattling my window furiously and the radio 
announcer is warning that another snow­
storm is on the way. He predicts six more 
inches of snow. 
How can God do this to us! Notre Dame 
won the Cotton Bowl! What more does He 
want! 
Maybe He's ticked off about the ND/De­
Paul game. 
Well, whatever the reason is, I've decided to han~ in there. The spirit, the warmth, the peopleofthe St. Mary's/Notre Dame community are a part of me now. The snow is bound to leave, but the people and the overall ~ense of pride and love will remain. 
So, rather than transfer to Hawaii, I'm going to stay here. Until hell freezes over. 
Two Meetings with a Poet 
Having been asked to write a feature on my meetings with George MacBeth, I sat and thought about how to approach the article. It came to mind that technically one can only review a performance or relate an interview. Since these meetings were neither, all I could describe were my reactions, with some interjections of the poet's actions and thoughts. 
Meeting I 

I always thought I would like to talk to a .poet. Not that I'm a poet groupie, but aimply because poets appealed to me as ~eing interesting peuple. So when it was announr.eJ that George MacBeth would be visiting our poetry workshop, naturally I was pleased. "Interesting" was my initial reaction to the idea.. 
My first reaction to the sight of George 
MacBeth was the same. The tall, skinny 
man who came striding into the classroom 
was not what I had in mind, but now I can't 
recall having any specific ideas as to looks. 
What di:i impress me was the energy and 
eagerness which clung to the poet, an air of 
being open and willing to share. 
During the class MacBeth talked about his w0rk as a producer for a BBC radio station. According to MacBeth, most poets in England must do something besides write. Because creative writing is not taught in English schools, the only course 
they  can  teach  connected  with  their  
outside work is En_21ish.  
MacBeth's  job -involved  poetry  pro­ 

grams, often with poetry set to music. This influenced his interest in the sounds of words, leading to more work with "Sound Poetry." He performed "The House of Jade," about a lonely man in an empty house with a lamp, the way it was meant to sound. The intensity of MacBeth's concentration vibrated in his voice and was reflected in the contraction of his body. Although the words were' slurred almost to indistinction, the sound and emotion came through clearly. "This," I thought to myself, "is the magic of poetry." Later MacBeth read the poem, slowly. Only a small part of the magic remained. 
The poet read two other poems and talked some more on the arts in England and America, but it was all anti-climatic. Somehow my mind kept focusing on the thinness of the man's body and the impact of his voice. 
It was only when MacBeth talked about writing poetry that my mind snapped fuJly to the present. "Sometimes a poem \.Omes spontaneously,'' he said, ''and sometillfes I work on a poem for months." The aspiring poet in me heaved a sigh of relief--maybe there was hope. MacBeth gave further inspiration when he related his feelings toward his first poems. "I've· been writing poetry since I was 16," he stated, "and for maybe the first 10 years I produced nothing. 

That last line was all I needed to hear. 
Meeting2 
My second meeting with Geor~e Mac­Beth was a semi-interview, more like an informal talk than a formal question and answer session. I was interested in what the poet thought about the literary festival, Notre Dame, and life in general, but I thought the last was Ci bit too broad to ask about. 
Instead, I started with the Sophomore Literary Festival. MacBeth was impressed by the people who have appeared in earlier years, as well as by the "respon­siveness'' of the students. ''I was asked to come last year," he explained, "but I couldn't make it." 
MacBeth, who visited colleges such as Cornell and New York University, has taught at the University of Hawaii. One thing that he particularly enjoys about the 

by rosemary mills 
SLFls the opportunities it provides tor him to visit classes and talk to small groups of people. "I enjoy the direct contact with the audience," he said. "I suppose because it's psychologicaly sustaining." Because the SLF is student-run, a lot of formality is lost. "At other schools," he related, "I might be whisked away by the chairman of the English department.'' 
By talking to his audience, MacBeth feels he learns a lot about his own work. In his view there are basically three parts to an audience: those who know his work well; those who are familiar with some of his poetry; and those who have read nothing of his. "In a sense yod have to please all of them," MacBeth said. "Perhaps that's one of the reasons I never plan exactly what I am to read." The poet agreed that while reading, he is constantly watching for audience reaction. 
In spite of what he heard about the 
_festival. MacBeth said he did not have any expectations. Neither was he knowledge­able about the m}ih of Notre Dame. "I heard about the football team, of course," he remarked. "And from the name I knew it was a Catholic university." The only thing the poet would admit to expecting was that the students would be "intelli­gent" and "responsive." MacBeth was not disappointed. Neither was I. 
----~-~-----~----------~ -~-----­

Thursday, February 16, 1978 
the observer 
7


photo essay 
Michigan Avenue--then and now· . 


by molly murtagh 
"When future historians write the historiography of the past decad'!, surely it will be identified as a time when scholars rediscovered the city...Contemporary urban historians, however, have primarily studied and taught the American urban environment through documentary verbal sources and, only recently, by means of the statistical records of urban dwellers. Unlike the Progressives, who were extremely interested in the physical urban fabric (its city plans, its architectural forms, and its civic spaces), we have neglected the abundant material evidence of oast urban life that lies extant all about us. For those historians who are willing to become "above-ground archaeologists," and there-by try to discover, identify, decipher. and interpret I the surviving physical evidence of the urb!ln past, th~ city can be examtn~d as a mammot!! artifact, an open-air classroom wherem urban htstory can be taught m a novel way. 
IThomas J. Schlereth, • 'The City As Artifact" (Notre Dame, Ind.). 

One of Chicago's most famous cultural and architectural landmarks, the Chicago Auditorium in 1909 [Left] and today. Though the building has changed very little [except for a good cleaning and the addition of the flagpoles], it is quite obvious that the fashions of society have changed a great deal. In 1909 everyone dressed up to go downtown -wore a hat and gloves. Women's ankles were never allowed to show. Today, blue jeans and golf hats are acceptable . 



.!. 

The Art Institute, in 1914 , seems isolated in contrast to today's busy background. The skyline has changed, the automobiles have been modernized, the dress is different, but people still get thirsty on hot sunny days. Note the Railway Exchange [the tall white building], the Orchestral Hall [a bus is in front in the modern picture], and an anonymous 'A frame' type structure all still stand today, amongst the new skyscrapers. 

the observer Thursday, February 16, 1978 

ND graduate Crawford running for prosecutor 
by Dave Rumbagh Senior Staff Reporter 

Jack Crawford, Judge of Ham­mond City Court and a 1970 graduate of Notre Dame, is currently running for the office of Lake County prosecutor. Crawford plans to solicit workers from the Notre Dame community to assist in a door-to-door campaign of Lake County sometime in April, he revealed. 
Crawford's candidacy marks the first time in 20 years that the race for Lake County prosecutor has been contested.'' I've been under tremendous pressure to get out of the race," the 30-year-old judge revealed, adding ''Some people are beginning to say, 'Hey, this guy won't play ball with us'." 
Crawford tags crime as the biggest issue in the May 2 election. 
"This county has a reputation as a place where crime flourishes," Crawford stated. 
Much of this reputation can be attributed to a Senate investigation of organized crime in which the Northern Indiana county received national publicity, according to Crawford. "In the early SO's Senator McClelland conducted an investigation in New York, New Jersey and Lake County. Many top officials served time, including former county prosecutor Metro Holovachka, '' Crawford revealed. 
The common practice of plea bargaining for the sake of exped­iency is another sensitive issue in the current campaign, Crawford 
·' 
said. "Plea bargaining makes a mockery of the judicial system , " the judge stated, adding, ''It puts criminals back on the street sooner than they should be." 
Plea bargaining can work against the defendant as well as in his favor, according to Crawford. "Often an innocent defendant will plead guilty to a manslaughter charge to avoid the risk of a mort serious sentence," Crawford stated. 
Over 90 per cent of the cases handled by present county prosecu­tor Raymond Sufana have been settled by plea bargaining Crawford claimed. "I would do away with as much plea bargaining as possible . . . down to about 25 per cent," he added. 
A third issue in the current campaign is the high rate of car theft in Lake County, Crawford stated. • 'This county has the highest auto theft rate in the state, yet there has been no investigation from the prosecutor's office. The problem is so broad that the residents of Lake County pay higher insurance than people in downtown Chicago--180 per cent' higher than nearby Porter County,'' Crawford stated. 
Crawford describes current prosecutor Raymond Sufana's office as "passive." "It is uncom­mon for a prosecutor to run a passive office as Sufana does. The prosecutor should be the top law enforcer in the county," he stated. Crawford intends to create a "strike force" to combat the high crime rate if he is successful in his 
@ 
•r 
Elkhart 

1-80-90 at S.R. 19 (219) 262-3691 
Single $12.50-$13.50 I Double $15.50-$17.50 
bid to oust Sufana, he revealed. 
Concerning his changed in the upcoming election Crawford stated, "We have a tough road ahead of us. I estimate that we will be outspent three or four to one, and Sufana has the support of a strong Democratic political machine.'' 
The 30-year-old judge feels his support lies with the "grass roots" and appeals to Notre Dame stu­dents for help in an extensive door-to-door campaign to be held over two weekends in April. "I hope to bring a group of students over by bus. Lake County is only about an hour from South Bend,'' Crawford stated. 

Crawford received a Bachelor of Science Degree from Notre Dame in 1970 with the intention of attending med school. "I attended med school for one day and then quit," Crawford revealed, adding, "I saw what I would have to do to become a doctor and decided to attend law school." 
Crawford was elected Judge of Hammond City Court in 1975. He tentatively plans to hold a press conference on the Notre Dame campus sometime in April. 


SU sclledules presentations 
I 
by Patrick Cole Special Projects Editor 
An appearance by the Amazing Kreskin, the world-famed mental­ist, will highlight a series of presentations offered by the Notre Dame Student Union's Academic commission, according to Terry Joiner, academic commissioner. 
Kreskin, who will be making his third consecutive appearance at Notre Dame in the last three years is scheduled to perform on Feb. 22 at 7:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. Joiner said that other speakers scheduled for the remainder of the semester are Tom Jackson, speak­ing on guerilla tactics in the job market on Mar. 5 and Arthur Knight, a writer for Playboy Magazine, on Apr. 10. 
"We're working on scheduling Joseph Califano, the Secretary of HEW," Joiner said. Other possi­bilities Joiner included were Lawrence O'Brien commissioner of the National Basketball Associa­tion, former Notre Dame Head Football Coach Ara Parseghian and Utah Senator Jake Garn of the council for National Defense in Washington, D.C. 
Joiner :expressed satisfaction wtih the speakers ·who accepted invitations to speak at Notre Dame. 


About the Academic Commission's budget' of $17,500 for lectures, he said, "It has been adequate. We try to have about 10 programs, so that gives us about $1,000 to $1,500 to work with for each speaker." 
The Academic Commission, hQwever, has been trying to attract more prominent spokesmen and spokeswomen to the campus. But one of the problems has been the relatively high fees commanded by some speakers. "There were some speakers we tried to get during the summer," Joiner explained. "For example, we tried to get Art Buchwald, but he wanted $5,000, and Paul Harvey (syndicated radio commentator) wanted $7,500. Some people are just too expensive for our budget.·· 
University· President Fr. Theodore Hesbugh has assisted the Academic Commission in contac­ting speakers. "If we had trouble, Fr. Hesburgh helped us in contac­ting them,'' he said. Joiner went on to say that theAcademic Com­mission had difficulty in contacting such candidates for speaking engagements as Sen. Edward Ken­nedy (D-Mass.) and Congress­woman Barbara Jorday. "They were too busy," Joiner revealed. 
ENGINEERING SENIORS 
MCDONNELL DOUGLAS-ST. LOUIS, THE LEADING AEROSPACE CORPORATION, WILL BE ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWING: 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23 
See your placement director for interviewing appointments. 
"Howard K. Smith (ABC News commentator) and William F . Buckley were difficult to contact, but we have had enough people to put together a good program of speakers." 
This year the Academic Commis­sion, Joiner said, has sponsored comedian and activist Dick Gregory, former Los Angeles Dis­trict Attorney Vincent Bugliosi. Sen William Proximire, Clark McVlellan, Ted Howard, John Marks and last week Jim Berry made an appearance at Mardi Gras. 
Joiner explained the criteria used in selecting speakers for campus lectures: "Our first objec­tive is to present a program that people will come to, and the second objective is to present a variety of topics for the students.'' 
Joiner said that for the six lectures, some 2,600 persons attended--about 450 per event. "So the turnout has been pretty good," he said. 
We're open to suggestions for speakers," Joiner continued. We get a variety of ideas and topics from members of the Academic Commission and from the general student body.'' 
Center schedules computer classes 
The Notre Dame Computing 
Center has announced its schedule 
of spring classes. 
The noncredit, tuition-free 
classes will meet from 3:30 to 4:30 
p.m. in Room 115 of the Computing Center. Preregistration is required for groups. 

The schedule includes: --"Introduction to Job Control Lan­guage," Feb. 14,16 and 20. --"Program Utility Routines for Tape--A Rap Session," Feb. 23. · --"Debugging Techniques," Feb. 28 and March 2 and 7. --"Introduction to Comman«;l Pro­cedures," March 9, 14 and 16. 
For further information, contact Stephen J. McNally, Computing Center, 283-2811. 

Watch out!! 
Sr. Marion Ruidl, administrator of the Notre Dame Student Health Center, has warned students to be careful in feeding the squirrels on campus. 
''Because of the slight possibility of developing rabies from a squirrel bite," Ruidl stated, "treatment is generally recommended and the minimum course of treatment for such a bite consists of a daily dose of rabies vaccine for 14 days." 
Ruidl suggested that instead of allowing the squirrels to eat from their hands, students place the food on the ground for the squir­rels. 
Bargain rates for Ice Capades 
Four of the eight performances 
of Ice Capades at the ACC this 
week will offer bargain rates for 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
students. 
Tickets will be half-priced for 
perfonnances tonight at 8 p.m., 
Saturday noon and Sunday at 6 
p.m. Tickets are on sale at the ACC. 


1 
.. --/1; -'. 


Thursday, February 16, 1978 the observer 9 
University Of Notre Dame Special 

Come to a FREE SPEED READING LESSON 
I 


Increase Your Reading Speed 50~1 00°/o 
Our·Average Graduate Increases Their Read-ing Rate 9 Times And Comprehension 11 °/o. 
COMPARE AND DECIDE 

Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Inc.  
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your Partial refund of the price of the  
DYNAMIC READING SPEED or you ~viii receive a FULL course if you fail.  
refund.  
Advanced Course No known advanced course known at this time.  
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to retake the Their graduates are required to pay  
course to extend their skills at no additional charge. a registration fee to retake the course.  
'  
Our professional instructors are required to do extended NO exams given.  
research after the initial training period for further insight,  
and take written exams.  
Our instructors are required to take reading proficiency NO reading proficiency evaluations given.  
evaluations.  
20-50°k discount on books. NO discount on books.  
Tuition Assistance Payment PI an Contractual obligation with finance Charge.  
NO FINANCE CHARGE!!  
.-...  




ATTEND A FREE LESSON: 
Thursoay February, 16 12Noon, 2:00, 4:00, 6:00PM Friday February, 11 12Noon~. 2:00, 4:00 
All Meetings Held At The CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION RM. 14 Downstairs 

"Knowledge is a reflection of reading, 
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing totally new concepts. 
1721 CROOKS RD., TROY, Ml 48084 (313) 366-1230 
Copyright 19n Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 


10 the observer 
'l 
'I
, 
I
I. 
r 
!
\ 
l \ 
Flanner may have Elmo the Tarantula but B.P. has Carlton, fierce protector of the women in B.P. [PhoJo by Ken McAlpine] 1 
I 
I 
Professorship established· 
an all nightpasstoride ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~
·QUICKIE f 
or only $2!! 
.-----ENDS TONITE -----,

THIS FRIDAY NIGHT In 4 track FANTASIA _
6:45 9:20 

Thursday, February 16, 1978 
A professorship in management. will be established at Notre Dame
I
I in honor of Franklin D. Schurz,
' 
veteran South Bend editor, publi­sher and civic leader, Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, University president, announced Sunday. 

I. Hesburgh said that the Schurz Communications Foundation, Inc., is endowing the new faculty chair in the Department of Management of the College of Business Admini­stration. Schurz served on the Board of Trustees from 1964 to 1971 and continues as a trustee emeritus of the University. "The Franklin D. Schurz Pro­fessorship in Management will greatly strengthen Notre Dame's endeavors to develop profes­sionally competent and morally responsible executives for business and industry," Hesburgh said. "It is a tribute of his family and 
( I associates to a man who fl)r more that fifty years has exemplified
' 1 
leadership and integrity in news­
l 
paper publishing, in the wider field of communications, and in our South Bend community. Notre 
SPECIAL QUIKI E II• • 
T -SHIRT -A -WAy 
NIGHT 
r.he tirst 1so riders will get a T -shirt and 
FEB 11 
Sophomore Class 






HOUR 
$2.00 

i . 
All the Beer Vou Can Drink I 
FRIDAY Galseppe's 2/f7 Ia South Bend 713 East LISa. ,..,.

HO-? 

Dame is honored that his name will 
be linked  with  the  University  in  
perpetuity.''  
Bro.  Leo  Ryan,  dean  of  the  

College of Business Administra­tion, in expressing the gratitude of its faculty and students, said that a serach committee is being formed ~seek canilida~s fur ilie Schun Professorship. The committee, he said, will seek a senior scholar in the field of management who has 
outstanding credentials in teaching and research. The formal inaugu­
ration of the professorship will be 
he~:h·~; '·~~::ications, Inc.. 
with Warren G. Wheeler, Jr., as its president,istheparentcompanyof 
~~:~~t~n~.en~tT~~~~n~w~~rp~e~s~ 
papers in Bloomington and Bed­
~;~tro~N~ra~r~:;.rsi~i~n~ndM~~ac~~ 
ella, CA; and Danville, KY; WDBJ-
Television in Roanoke, VA; Anti­etam Cablevision in Hagerstown and Cablevision of Coral Springs, Coral Springs, FL. 
NEXT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL Stereo 
vslEOV\ ' AUGt\lER\ 
.n 1 L-1"
M1 
tickets. F "d 

n ay at 7:00-9:15 Sat.Sun.Mon.1:15-3:20-5:15-7:20-9:30-MatineeMon. 
lf:;:p:~;::;;;:;;;;;:p;iiiiiiiiiii...------------------· 
HELD OVER-9th SMASH WEEK! Winner of 4 Golden Globe Awards! 



-... 
Thurs-Fri 7:15-9:40 
M
S t S
a · un. on.
1 :45-4 :15

RICHARD DREYFUSS 
7:00-9 :40

MARSHA MASON 
Matinee

No passes or discount tickets 
Monday may contact Dr. Roderiguez at 4730
.._______________________._.. or Dr. Black at 4948. 
Keg prohibition questioned 
[Continued &om page 1] are going to be drinking anyway." The CLC also discussed the 
possibility of enabling students to evaluate their rectors. Gorski viewed student evaluations of rec­
tors as "indispensible." 
Another approach was favored by Fr. James Shilz, assistant professor of physics. "If students in the hall were to evaluate a rector he might say they're full of crap or he might do something about it. It depends on the character of each rector involved," Shilz stated. 
He suggested that the evaluation be delegated to the Office of Student Affairs. "It's an entirely different situation if their employer is doing an evaluation. They pay attention,'' he pointed out. 
Whitehead brought up the pos­sibility of the use of a survey to obtain a profile of University residence halls, evaluate rectors 
and  question  students  on  issues  
such  as  coed housing  and  social  
space.  

In connection with social space, Bender mentioned that John Schneider, chairman of the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of 
Trustees, said last fall that improvements in social space will be made this summer in the five halls on campus that need it most. 
"It is essential that the CLC come up with something on social 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rrs omo a o uneon on ay.
Copies from the machine will cost 
a nickel.

• J • 
J J The new copier is being instalJed 
AttentI On UniOrS.. on a one-month trial basis, so the 
Student Union urges students to use the machine to make full-time 
Due to unprecedented demand ;;,;;;sgsi:.summer
tor d• t• k t t J •
II Inner IC e s 0 unlor Parents' weekend' tHere are 
on1y a few still available. All
those who w·lsh to attend t·he
d. b h h d
Inner ut ave not P.Urc ase
t•lckets must do so before Spm Fr.lday No t•ICket ·11 be sold after this time. The 
• S WI 
tickets are $10.50 per person. 
Marv 7960

Contact·. Rhonda 
7975 John 8595 

space before the Executive Board meeting in March,'' Bender added. 
In a discussion of student-faculty relationships, Pedi brought up the possibility of student faculty din­ners, pointing out that Freshman Dean Emil T. Hofman has found that the practice promotes inter­action. Huard added that if students could occasionally lunch 
with  their  professors  it  would  
improve relations.  
Members  were  alerted  to  the  

possibility of having to consider energy conservation measures due to declining coal supplies. 
Gallery presents Art Talk 
An interview with artist Jim Dine will be presented tomorrow at 3 
p.m. in the Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall as part of "Art Talk,·'' a film series on 
cntemporary art and artists span-sored by the Notre Dame Art Department, Art Gallery and Isis Gallery. 
The film series consists of taped interviews with artists and will be held weekly on Friday afternoons at 3 p.m. 
For a complete schedule of the films, please calJ 283-7361. 
Sophie Korczyk, assistant pro­fessor of finance, said the CLC should follow through with a pro­posal originated by the Student life Council last semester for periodic review of student services. "We should not let this thing go down the tubes,'' Korczyk commented. 
Films present plight of workers 
Notre Dame law School's Women's Rights Association (WRA) will present two short films depicting the plight of the working men and women employed int he textile mills of the J.P. Stevens Company tomorrow from 12:15 to 
1:15 p.m in Room 110 of the Law School. 
New copier available in La Fortune 

The Notre Dame Student Union has announced that a new I.B.M. 
ficoptyflmachfinLe Fwilrtl be placMe ondthe 
tours offered at SMC 
by Honey McHugh 

Summer tours of Spain, London 
and Rome will be open to all Saint 
Mary's students this year. The Spanish and Religious Stud­ies departments will cosponsor the first C-ultural Spanish Tour from
May 23 to June 12. The program 
will focus upon the various cult.ural 
and historical aspects of Spain.
Some of the cities included in the 
~~~n:i~a~e=c~~~~:: l1~~iase:~~ 
Zamora. 
Ro~~i~~~~:n;oor~~na~:r·of~::~~~~ 
the tour is open to students from all 
majo.rs. The Seven Seas Travel 
Agency has made most of the travel 
arrangements which feature hous­
ing accomodations in three-star 
hotels, first class bus transporta­
tion and two daily meals. 
''I~~ilie~mwiltpro~~ilie
students with a good opportunity to 
get acquainted with another cui­
ture," Rodriguez stated. "Spain 
has changed quite a bit over the 
years and the students will be able 
to see these changes first hand." 
Saint Mary's will also sponsor
the annual london and Rome 
programs. The former will run 
from May 23 to June 23 and wi11 
include visits to Ireland, Scotland, 
England and France. The Rome 
tour runs from J.une 22 to July 21 
and will visit the cities of France, 
Switzerland, Germany and Italy. 

Dr. Anthony Black, co-ordinator of the Rome and London programs, stated that students will be given · the option of taking courses during the trips for credit. Housing will vary in each country and range
from private guest ho:Jses to inter­national hotels. Blaclr said that transportation will be primarily by 
bus or train, and three daily meals will be provided. Like the Spain tour, the two programs will be open to interested students from any major. The deadline for sign-ups is March 31. 
"Students from last year found this e~erience abroad to be most rewarding" commented Black. "It 
is a good way to combine organized travel and college level courses.'' For further information, students 

Thursday, February 16, 1978 the observer 11 
Congress favors tuition tax credits 
by Kevin Richardson the Upper Chamber, only to see the education are making it difficult foi· growing concept that middle-in­portion of their own income to 
House take no action. families to send their children to come American taxpayers should spend on education expenses. Editor's note: The Observer In the first session of the 95th, college, and several congressional come to Washington to apply for This argument is popular among received this information from Roth re-introduced the bill, which, sources feel the country is rapidly government aid programs financed Congressional incumbents who 
Washington sources who wish to if passed, would provide a tax approaching a situation where only by their own taxes." fice ~-election in a nation that has 
remain unnamed. credit, subtracted directly from the the affluent and the very poor will Rather than require people to fill turned markedly anti-big govern­amount of taxes owed, for expenses be able to attend college. In out forms and use their income ment in recent years. SupportersAs an alternative to Pres. Jimmy at college or vocational school paid addition, it is felt by many suppor­levels as .a meter by which to dole ~of tuition tax credits think the Carter's proposed increase in the by an individual for himself, his ters of tuition tax credits on Capitol out federal monies they have Carter Administration will be hard Basic Educational Opportunity spouse, or his dependents. Hill that the revenues invested in already paid in taxes, this source pjessed in selling its grant increase 
Grant (BEOG), momentum in Con­The amount of the tax credit tax credits for higher education will stated that the government should Hlution in light of the bipartisan gress has been gathering for would be $300 in 1978, $400 in lead to higher career earnings and_ allow taxpayers to keep a larger support in this election year. various proposals which would 1979, and $500 in 1980 and better job opportunities for college provide direct tax relief to middle­thereafter. graduates, and consequently, high­
Efforts begin to conserve
class families trying to grapple with Sen. Richard Schweiker's bill, S er tax revenues returning to the the rising cost of higher education. 834, also provides tax credits or Federal Treasury. 
dwindling coal supplies 
Administration critics believe deductions for tuition. This legisla­Tuition tax credit propone,ts feel 
that the existing system of federal tion gained broad bipartisan co­[Continued from page 3} percent cutbacks already have been 
that since this is an election year, 
school close between March 4 and implemented, with all service clubs grants to colleges--and the pro­sposorship in the first session of the enthusiasm for legislative ini­
March 26. and recreation areas closed.
posed increase of these grants by the 95th and a similar House Bill, tiatives will be substantial. Theythe administration--has created 3403 was introduced by Cong. believe this is particularly true with lndi~na State Uniyersity resche-Temporary blackouts, a last re-significant complications at the James Delaney of New York, legislators who represent middle­duled tts ~onday .m~ht basketball sort possibility throughout the state expense of both taxpayers and chairman of the House Rules class districts where families are game agam~t Wtchtta at Terre if coal supplies continue to drop, tuition payers. In 1976, it cost Committee. especially hard hit by the increas­Haute to begm. at 4 p.m. EST. already are being experienced at 
American colleges nearly $2 billion The bipartisan Packwood-Moni­ing cost of ~ollege education. DePauw Umve~stty at Green-Grissom. Lu.bin said power is to comply with H. E. W. funding han bill in the Senate, which is the Some political observers note Cll;stle plan~ed to mstall a 23-ton, being cut off to all base residences regulations. most current tuition tax credit that the Carter Administration, ott-fired botler Thursday. Spokes-between 11 :30 a.m. and 1 p.m. 
Legislative initiatives in the area initiative, provides tuition tax cre­"?an Pat Aikman said school offi.-daily.
which rode into Washington on a 
ctals hoped the change would cutof tuition tax credits have been dits to all education~] and voca­banner of anti-big government, The coal crunch has even affec­campus electricity use 50-75 per­undertaken by Senators Richard tional institutions, unlike the cur­seems to have missed the political ted politicians. 
cent.
Sweiker, Robert Packwood, Patrick rent BEOG program, which the boat in regards to this issue. One Grissom Air Force Base near The Republican State Central
Moynihan, and William Roth, and administration seeks to expand in Republican staffer on the Hill said according to congressional sources its attempts to solve the current that ''many members of Congress Peru, Ind., got an early taste of Committee voted Wednesday to 
are quite popular on Capitol Hill. tuition squeeze on middle-class in both Houses seem to prefer what was to come for most reschedule or indefinitely postpone In the 94th Congress, Sen. Hoosiers. about 40 Lincoln dinners, as well as
families. telling constituents that something
William Roth's bill passed twice in The increasing costs of a college is fundament· .lly wrong with the Maj. Herbert Lubin, the base reduce hours at state and county public inform~tion officer, said 25 GOP offices. 
CLASSFEDADSCLASSFEDADSCLASSFEDADSCLASSFEDADSCLASSFEDADSCLASSFEDADSCLASSFEDADSCLASSFEDADS 
Need 6 Ga and 5 student tickets for the
NOTICES FOR RENT 

Marquette game. Will pay big bucks! Call Kevin 287-5737.
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Two furnished houses for rent next c;chool ~ Student loans at 1 percent monthly year -9 month lease 4 bedroom and 5 
Need 2Ga ,tickets for Loyola b-ball game.
interest. $20-150. 1 day wait. Due in 30 bedroom -near ND off-street parking. 

Call 6740.
days. LaFortune Basement. 11:15-12:15 Call 234-2626. M-F 

Need ride for three to the New York City
Available for Sept. Five bedroom house, 

area for spring break. Call Doug, John or
Motorcyclists -interested in riding to also three bedroom apartment. Call 

Tom at 3414.
Florida at Easter break. Call Tom Nancy Humbarger 234-9364. 
To Melanie, Joan, Marietta, and Mary
287-7743. 

Need 1or 2female apt. mates-ND apts. Kay of Farley Hall. Thanks for TuesdayFor rent next school year: Completely Call 284-4953 or 288-8767. night.
Transcendental Meditation. Learn more furnished 4-bedroom house a couple Damian

about the TM Program, Thurs. Feb. 16, 7 blocks from campus. No security pro­Frozen Yogurt machine. Great for money
Two Marquette GA tickets. Will pay top
p.m. Am. 242 O'Shag. or call 232-2808. blems, safe neighborhood. Easy walk to minded student. Refreshing for the warm
dollar. Pahl 6755. Jeff,
campus. Call 277-3604. days ahead. Call Erma at Taco Rico 
You say the nicest things! Thank you.

Lookina for· a band for your party or 291-3f42.
Need ride to IU Bloomington Friday -Mom
formalt Attalla can give you what you 

anytime after 11 a.m. Call Vicki 6751.
need. For the best rock and boogie LOST & FOUND Marantz 2216 3 months old. Best offer. 
Dave Kleer:

around, call Fred at m-3448. Call ike 1580.
2tickets for NC State game. Call Rich or I love You.
LOST: San Francisco license plate-key 

Joe 1173. Connie
Near Campus, partially furnished two or ·chain with name "Maureen." Please call Remaining three student b-ball tix. 3819 three bedroom. Mornings, evenings, 6856. after 11 p.m.
2 tickets for Marquette. Call rich 1173. Bob, Tom, Mack and Tim:
272-6174. 
Atoast to our off-campus life next year in

FOUND: A valuable pen, between Flanner Records album sale: all $7.981ist
Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home "Windblown."
Mink coat, full length to sell. Price O'Shag and Chern. Eng. Bldgs. Call3869 LP's only $4.99, all $6.98 list lp's onlu
basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. Jerry
negotiable. Call 287-5806. to claim. $4.49. (plus tax) Sale ends Sunday, Feb. 19 Flanner Records 322 Flanner Phone
Need 2 Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane To John Patrick "Bonsai tree" McGuire
House to rent or sell, Napolean Blvd. One LOST: One blue ski glove (left hand), 2741.
7883. from "Sequoia"
mile from Notre Dame. Telephone between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on 287-5806. Thursday, Feb. 2 approx. 4:45 p.m. If 

2 Marquette tix will pay reasonable sum To AI "Sapling" Brunett: Love ya-Get
found, please contact George at 1248. PERSONALS
of $. Call1612. outta here. Love, "Redwood" 
TYPING DONE FOUND: 1 student hockey ticket, if you Hey SAM, How come no response??
I am in dire need of 2 Marquette b-ball Sal~ D., Will you take a stop bath with
Reasonable rates can identify it, it's yours again. Call 8655. 

tix. Will pay your price. Call1612. me.
Call8086. To everyone who made my birthday the LOST: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar best ever: Thanks for everything -you're 
Sue & Linda you made the Mobile come

Typing in home. Fast accurate reasonable Sat. nite. Special X-mas present. Reward. super! Glance
Need up to 8 GA tlx for Marquette game. to 209 Alumni to claim your prizes.
Phone 272-7866 anytime. Call Kevin 1655. 

Call1772. 
Shupe, Did you have a Happy VD? Sweet 
Return of the Eclipse: Help Major Wasta

Accurate, Fast Typing FOUND: Silver wire-framed glasses out­Hitch-hiker
Come on ND, these are friends of mlnell and Captain Buzz celebrate the clean
MRS. DONOHO side ACC before Maryland game. Call 

Get them tickets. G kitchen floor and generally clean & neat
232-0746 1475. Marla, Sorry this Valentine wish is late, House. 1014 St. Louis Thursday night.
Hours 8AM to 6PM but it took me a while to climb out from LOST:· A pair of large brown-framed under the bed. l miss you an awful lot.
Need 2or 4 Marquette tix. 8504 or 8502. Smythe, Wag, Big One, Porky, Bar High,
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. eyeglasses in a brown case. Reward. Call Happy V-D Uncle Hubie 
& RM*
Rocky 1773. 

Desperately need 4Ga Marquette tickets. Are you guys going to throw a good party
Dissertation, manuscripts paper typed. Dear Cindy, I'm yours. Fred
Call1423. for once, or Is It going to be a wildIBM Selection II Linda's Letters. 287-LOST: Student basketball tickets around drunken orgy like the others have been?
4971. South Dining Hall. Call 2141. Despite Ponsetta's & Corzine's abuse ­
Need 10 Marquette tickets. Make offer. 
with the foot -the GREEN MACHINE
Call Joe 234-Q980. Ann Foley,
Anyone wishing to register to vote in LOST: One red and green scarf, probably will roll on the court during halftime at 
Roses are red

Indiana's May election should contact Mo in South Dining Hall. Call 6326. MARQUETTE.
Need tix to Marquette. Call Kate 1264. Violets are blue
at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
My Valentine Is late

FOUND: 1 camera. Call 3601 to identify. Lynchie, Do you keep your promises?
Marquette tix wanted. Ga or student. Call But so are you
ND and SMC Artists: We are establishing Sharonlynn
8372. Photographer
individual studios and a gallery on our LOST: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. upper level. Work, exhibit and sell in Reward. Please call Paul 8540. Kalamazoo,
Must have 1 Ga Marquette tic. Will pay Wanted: Julie to quit smoking and go to
pleasant atmosphere. We want a good Come live with me in sin.
$$$. Call Bill 1978. class.
mix of painting, photography, sculpture, LOST: A pocket camera somewhere Toledo. 
JDS
silk screen, picture framing, handcrafts, between North Dining Hall and Ad­

2 Marquette student tickets. Reasonable
etc. Apply for space at Aquinas Book ministration Building on Saturday of Tony, Stan, Glen, and all Zahm Hall ­
price. Call Pat 1052. Brian,
Shop, 435 S. Michigan Street. snowstorm. Please call Ruth 1317. Thanks for bringing Paris to Stepan Sorry there was no Valentine. CongratsCenter. We enjoyed working with you.
Need two tickets for Marquette -Bill on IBM. I'm impressed.
Logan Volunteers and Interested Stu­LOST: One sterling silver necklace be­Linda and the McCandless Hall Council.
8772. Love, D
dents: Ice Capades trip this Sat., Feb. 18. tween Gym 4, ACC and Alumni. Medal is Bring afriend along and meet us at Logan a cross surrounded by a triangular Need 4 Ga tix for Marquette. SMC 4530
Need one GA Marquette ticket. Will pay Dear Ellen, The best's yet to come.
Center at 10:30 a.m. and we'll return at shelter. Save me from suicide! Brian Betsy
your price. Call Russ at an2. Happy 20th!! Love, Mom
2:45p.m. We need lots of volunteers for 3n4, 7958. this one! P.S. Don't forget the St. Haircuts cheap. Styles, trims. SMC 4530
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer-year round, 3rd floor Arch Angels wishes Ellen the
Valentine's Day Massacre Party is also Betsy
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. best birthday kisses on her 20th! Love,
this Sat., Feb. 18th at Art's House. We WANTED 

All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses from all
will pick up at the Notre Dame Main Easy job. Call between 8 a.m.-2 p.m.
pai~. sightseeing. Free information.
Circle and at the Holy Cross Circle at St. Need nde to Kansas City area for spring 233-7949.
Wnte: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, To the guy with the "semi-sweet choco­
Mary's at 9:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m., and break. Will share driving and expenses 

Berkeley, CA 94704. late" brown eyes -I will not give up hope,
11:00 p.m. Remember to come dressed etc. Chris 1612. KQ, despite the odds. 
up in the 1920's style or you won't get in. What can I say but "Thanks a million" 
Need ride to Chicago on 17th. Back to Persistent
Any questions or comments feel free to Need 1 or 2 GA Loyola tickets, Call Bill TH
school on 19th. Call 3583.
caU Jeanne Conboy (284-4391) or Art 232-4499. ------------------r Koebel (287-7509). Lavender,
Hey, Pete. how come you're going to
Mom & Dad need 2 GA tix to Marquette. You're a dish. Thanks for the flower.
Chi-town?? G
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Please call Rich 1172. TH Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM 
Need two NC State tix. Call Vicki 6751.
Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page Ride to Fort Lauderdale for 2 girls for Drew B., minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you spring break. Will share driving & Thanks for saving the day. P.S. This
2 girls need ride to Columbus Ohio
want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. expenses. Call Jean or Mo 4-1-4001. doesn't count as the personal I promised
weekend of Feb. 17. Sue 4-1-4359. 
you. Need Marquette tickets. Student or Ga. Call Brain 272-5843. 




r-­
.1 

Thursday, February 16, 1978
12 the observer 
In split decision 

Spinks beats the odds -and Ali 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. [AP] -Leon the bell that sent Ali stumbling lou Tabat 145-140. Ali won the title from Sonny Liston corner. Spinks, turning tiger in the final back to his corner. is seven rounds Feb. 25, 1964. The corner had reason to be 
The Associated Press scored it
rounds, scored a shocking upset I'' In the 13th round, Spinks scored worried. 
no
Wednesday night with a split-A I s face was a mask of pain and 143-142 for Ali, but there was with a left-right to the head and, as
weariness. Ali fought the 15th round in
question that Ali was a beaten man Ali visibly tired, the challenger
decision victory over Muhammad furious fashion. But this time it
at the end.

At the final bell, Spinks' seconds landed several other good lefts. 
Ali to become the new heavyweight was the fury of a 36-year-old man,
jumped into the ring and began The 36-year-old Ali, conserving
champion of the world. In the 14th, Ali, his left eye and it paled alongside the fury of a
celebrating. his strength and picking his spots
Spinks, the 24-year-old ex­swelling, tried to stem the tide with 24-year-old who had nothing to lose 
with head punches, seemed to be in
Marine with just seven previous Judge Art Lurie, the first scorer his famous jab. But Spinks kept and everything to gain.
command after 10 rounds. 

pro fights, refused to run out of announced, had it143-142 for Ali. coming -and hurt Ali with a vicious And he gained it all. 
gas. In an exciting 15th round he But the other two judges voted for But Spinks would not be denied left hook midway in the round. He In that thrilling 15th, both fight­landed a left-right to the head at Spinks-Howard Buck 144-141 and boxing's most shocking upset since followed it with a right-left and an ers took turns rocking one anotherupercut in a flurry just before the with right hands and hooks. Ali gotbell. 
in three good hooks and a rightSpinks clearly outpunched the early in the round, but Spinks kept champion in that exchange. 
up the pressure and althoug he 
As the 15th round opened, almost fell from apparent exhaus­Spinks' followers in a crowd of tion, he outpunched the champ in 5,298 at the Hilton Pavilion were the final 30 seconds and hurt him standing and cheering and there with a thunderous hook just at the were some worried looks in the Ali bell. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Tom Desmond 

In Retrospect 

:=============:::=================================;====================================================================== Six-pointers 
"Twenty wins, that will get us into the tournament." Those are the watchwords of Richard "Digger" Phelps as the days of February melt into March--and the NCAA tournament. As the Irish built the nine-game win skein that was snapped by DePaul on Sunday Digger pointed to the NCAA tournament after each one. Like Mission Control does during the space launch, the Irish mentor was counting down th~ games to the score that he needed. 
On Sunday, however, the countdown was put on hold at t-minus four. There were a lot of things that transpired during that contest that needed time for digestion before the long-term effects could be ascertained. These range from the ability of the Irish to come back and send the game into overtime to then turning right around and self-destructing in the final two minutes of the extra period. The leprachaun incident and the persistent "barnyard" cheer for controversial calls also require a retrospective look. 


Notre Dame opened Sunday's game by shooting a paltry 39 percent Ed Fitzsimmons and his 400-yard freestyle relay teammates swam strongly to put the Irish ahead of in the t1rst half. Although the shooting didn't get much better, the Wayne State on Tuesday. [Photo by john Calcutt] intensity of the team did, especially in the crucial final minutes of the 
regulation time. Down the stretch the Irish played like a veteran team. 
They worked the ball to get buckets from Flowers and Tripucka inside 
With triple-win 

as well as outside shots from Williams and Batton. Those final 
moments were a ray of hope for the rest of the season as the Irish were
'• 
finally going to take a close one from a good opponent. But, that



Komara leads Irish swimmers 
wasn't to be. Everyone is quick to remember that Br11ce Flowers had a pair ofby Frank I.aGrotta a Notre Dame swimmer and eclip­senior Butterfly specialist Ed Di­costly turnovers in the overtime fouling out as well. However, thoseSportsWriter sed the old mark of 5:00.6 set by Luia, "but we know they've got a same people should realize that if Flowers hadn't had 18 points and 15himself just one week previously. lot of top swimmers. Many of them rebounds there may not have been an overtime. Rich Branning, theThe Fighting Irish swimmers ex­The Insh will take on Monmouth are ranked number one in NCAA team's best free-throw shooter misses the big one that could have iced tended their season dual-meet College this Saturday afternoon at Division Ill. I'm sure it will be a the game and alot of blame goes to him. But, that fault is unfoundedrecord to 5-2 by defeating Wayne 1:30 p.m. "We've never swam tough meet but I'm confident that because Branning played 44 out of the 45 pressure-filled minutes ofState in Detroit, 57-56 and Bowling against them before,'' points out we can win." 
that ballgame and although he was plagued by poor shooting he didGreen at the Rockne Memorial yeoman's work in stopping the breaking Blue Demon backcourt men.
Pool, 59-54. The lone setback No, the collapse in the overtime can't be blamed on two players bntsuffered by Coach Dennis Stark's rather the entire squad must take the rap. All along the Irish h<t' ~ · t.t

Irish racers capture
squad in last week was a 661/2­been able to put team· s away and there are many varied thee :-a~ t44112 loss to Marshall. The Irish why the basketball Irish lack killer instinct. ·relied on a strong performance by The most prominent t_heory is one that the Irish have no continuitytheir 400-yard freestyle relay team 


Ohio Governors Cup 
because the way Coach Phelps substitutes, the scorer's tablelooks like of Rod McLaughlin, Ed Fitzsim­Grand Central Station. It seems as though the Irish are in search of themons, Tom Krutsch and Tom Ohio was the target for the Notre D' Aquila have also been invited to "right" combination and the resulting loss of cohesiveness becomesHartye to edge Wayne State. With Dame Fighting Irish racing team attend this race. 
apparent with the sudden flashes of turnovers that the Irish sufferNotre Dame needing a win in the last weekend. The skiers left the The "B" team and remainder of sporadically through the contest. But, Coach Phelps -does indeed have meet's final event, the quartet circle Friday afternoon to take on the womens team will travel to
.f
,, a viable answer to the problem.
captured the relay in a time of 12 schools on Feb 11 for the Ohio Detroit on Wed. for the Detroit 
~-3:20.5 to wrap up the victory. Governors Cup and Feb. 12 in the News Classic and Sun. in an MCSA "When you have depth, you can specialize," Digger remarked The big man for the Irish was Midwestern Collegiate Skiing As­race to be held at Crystal Mt.; yesterday in an interview. "A good example is the "platooning" of sociation race. Tripucka and Hanzlik down thestretch against DePaul. Kelly is a good
J freshman John Komara. The South For the first time in Mich. 
l 
~ Bend native became the first the history of the Irish racing, offensive player, Hanzlik gives us needed pressure on defense. The team with depth can have certain roles filled by capable players."
triple-winner for the Irish this year Notre Dame swept the Ohio Women cagers
as he captured the 200-yard indiv­Governors Cup, snatching the title The Irish do have the depth to apply this idea of specialized roles to the team. It is just a matter of solidifying those responsibilities and
idual medley (2:05.2), 500-yard in both men's and women's divi­
1 
! freestyle (5:05.5) and the 1000-yard sions. defeat Goshen executing in remaining games of the season to develop the i freestyle (10:42.3) in an effort Scoring points for the men's by Suzanna Behnke killer-instinct and apply it in the tournament. The turnovers at the end team were Remi Baylot, claiming Sports Writer of the DePaul game were of the "correctable" variety. With an
·.vhich Coach Stark termed as 

the third place· medal, Steve organized plan of attack and the symptoms properly diagnosed the
"really outstanding." 

L'heureaux placing fifth, Joe The Notre Dame women's bas­Irish have the know-how to win the remaining games to get into the1 Other winners in the Wayne State 
( Dwyer n.~nth and Mike Quinlevan ketball team returned Monday "five-game" season. 
i. meet included Ed Fitzsimmons in was 17th in a field of 92 men. night with a victory over Goshen Enough commentary on what went on with the players on the courtthe SO-yard freestyle (22. 7), Tom Womens team claimed their fame College. The game was close and and now a word about the leprechaun on the court. There is no reasonHartye in the 1 00-yard freestyle with Maggie Noonan taking home a played throughout, but the Irish for a team mascot to taut opposing players during a game. The antics(50.0) and David Campbell in the third place medal, Muggs D' Aquila and clowning around are fine for before the game or halftime, but not
pulled away in the closing minutes200-yard freestyle (1 :51.5). 
finishing fourth, and Patti Wilson to win, 62-57. on the court with the combatants during the battle.
In the Notre Dame loss at Mar­

,. scoring twelfth in a field of 42. Jayne Politiski produced another As for the "barnyard" cheer, it does nothing but tarnish the image
~hall, Fritz Shadley was victorious

( of class that the Notre Dame fans enjoy. Known for their ability to 
r In Sunday's competttton Irish phenomem,ll game with 21 points
Ul the one-meter dive, Andy Petro "raise the roof," the Irish fans are often sited as pivotal performers in racers turned in another impressive and 22 rebounds, the team high for in the 200-yard breaststroke and 

Joe Caverly a performance with the men nabbing the season. Kelly Hicks was a an Irish homecoart win. When writers in both Chicago papers make it 
established pool a point to mention that the Blue Demons defeated the Irish and cheers, the top honors and the women major contributor to the victory byrecord in the one-meter optional "hisses and obscenities" of the Irish fans, there is something amiss. 

finishing a close second behind icing both ends of a one and onedive with 285.50. 
Even Digger will agree with that as he took a moment from a first-halfOhio State. Baylot and Quinlevan opportunity in the final minute.

Komara played Cupid for the Irish rhubarb with an official to wave his arms and yell "cut it out" at thetook home second and third place Hicks had 14 points for the game.
on Valentine's Day as he again won obscenity-cheering Irish fans .. .It'll be family nite for Kelly Tripucka 
awards respectively. Rounding out Overall the Irish played well
all three of the events he was tonite at the Garden .. .it's Kelly's birthday and his brother Tracy is the
the team were Jim Byrne fifth, Joe especially with their execution of a
entered in against Bowling Green. head coach of Fordham while his brother T.K. dresses for the Rams ...If
Dwyer sixth, Ben Powers Eighth fullcourt press in the final three
The freshman won the 1000-yard you haven't gotten your refund for your Holy Cross ticket you had
and Tom Lux finished ninteenth. minutes. The press will be one of
freestyle (1 0:36.4) and the 200-yard The mens "A" squad will see their major attack plans as they better hurry, tomorrow is the last day to turn in your ticket at the individual medley (2:06. 1) before their next action at the MCSA prepare for districts. ACC.. the Irish leers close out the home season this weekend againstestablishing a new varsity record at championships and AlA W national Due to heavy snow fall, the St. Minnesota-Duluth ... tickets are available for both nights as face-off is Notre Dame in the 500-yard free­qualifying race held Saturday at Joseph game has been cancelled at 7:30 p.m... former Irish assistant basketball coach Frank McLaughlin style with a time of 4:56.4. Brule Mountain in Michigan's for tonight. The Marion College was ejected from the Harvard-Cornell game two nights ago...Digger's Komara's time marked the first upper peninsula. The womens game will be played, as resche­reaction to the discipline his apprentice received, "I told him he's sub-five minute time in the 500 for team members Noonan and duled, Saturday at 2 p.m. one-up on me in that department." That's hard to believe. 



