------~ ---­
Senate passes resolution commending football team 
In , a remarkable display of unbiased statemanship, the U.S. Senate, at the request of Indiana Senator Birch Bayh yesterday unanimously conferred a resolution commending the University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team for winning the 1977 National College ,championship. 
Bayh, who first tried to introduce the resolution several weeks ago, said that he had managed in the interim to convice the Senators from Alabama and Arkansas that, despite the performances of those football teams last season, the outstanding record compiled by the Fighting Irish merited the Senate's commendation. 
The Senate unanimously passed the resolution on a voice vote. Bayh described as a "significant compromise" the fact that, imme­diately following the Notre Dame resolution, the Senate also voted to approve the resolution introduced by Senator James B. Allis of Alabama commending the Ala­bama, Arkansas, Penn State, and University of Texas teams for "a year of outstanding and wholesome competition that brings credit to their schools and to national colle­giate football." 
Commenting on that vote, Bayh said, "In the finest tradition of Indiana football, we won the big one." 
''The University of Notre Dame and its interests have helped the country for its academic excellence and its dedication to the furthering of moral and religious values," the Hoosier Democrat told his Senate colleagues upon the introduction of the resolution. 
"As some of my colleagues also know, Notre Dame has an interest in football. In fact, I do not think it would be an exaggeration to say that Notre Dame is probably the most widely known team in college football. Its supporters include not only the actual alumni, but also many additional subway alumni whose only qualification is an 
intense and abiding interest in . Notre Dame's fortune," Bayh said. · He went on to note that Notre Dame has a "long and rich tradition which has provided Ame­rica with some of its most colorful sports figures, among them being the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame, Knute Rockne, the Gipper, Frank Leahy and Ara Parsegian, all of whom have become household 
words across the nation.'' 
"The 1977 Notre Dame football 
team has continued this attitude 
and tradition. As I'm sure we all 
know, this te.am won the Cotton 
Bowl, and, moreover, in a remark­
able display of the unbiased accu­
racy of the American news media, 
both the AP and UPI polls recog­
nized Notre Dame as the national 
college championship team. I feel 
it is entirely appropriate for the 
Senate to offer its congratulations 
on this occasion both to the team 
and its fine coaching staff headed 
by Dan Devine." 
Service hired to investigate security 41
by Diane Wllson Senior Staff Reporter 

The top priority of Security Audit Inc., which is presently investigat­ing Notre Dame security, is to "assess the security of women," according to Dean of Students James Roemer. 
Security Audit Inc. is a profes­
sional firm involved in investigat­
ing security systems. Robert 
Murphy, president of Security 
Audit Inc., will'head the investiga­
tion. Murphy is a Notre Dame 
graduate who worked as a special 
agent for the FBI from 1951-1977. 
Murphy will be assisted by 
William A. Morrison, an account­
ant and Security Audit's vice 
president. Also participating will 
be Frank W. Matthys who has 
served as an FBI Special Agent for 
more than 20 years as well as 
holding a high security post in 
private industry. 
The audit, which will last approx­1imately six weeks, began the first of the year, according to Bro. Just Paczesny . vice president for stu.­dent affair~. . During this period, the investi!S ttors will go "walking, riding, ind observing" the way security is handled on campus, 
Paczesny stated. 
Along with women's security, another aspect that will be audited carefully is the organization of security. "This inspection will include administrative procedures presently utilized in the Depart­ment, guard scheduling and train­ing, equipment, a review of person­nel qualifications and pay scales, a review of liaison arrangements with law enforcement agencies and a review of patrol schedules," Murphy stated. 
The aspects of women's security which will be studied include "the physical charateristics of the women's residence halls: looks, lighting, fire protection, guard procedures, alarm requirments and University rules as they affect the safety of women students," Murphy explained. 
According to Roemer, Security Audit has already conducted many interviews with Security, Univer­sity administration, faculty, ·staff and students. They have specifi­cally met with the presidents from the women's halls, as well as rectors and RA' s from each of the women's halls. 
"They are very professional," Roemer stated. "They have asked questions to hundreds of people." 
A -third major consideration of Security Audit according to Roemer is the Security of the ACC and the 
football stadium. Roemer said that this specif;.cally includes the ACC  I~·~·~lFi  /I  . '·:-v; ,.~~<".~V ~.··  '-..J' "  J11.f. 1 . ~  
during events such  as :rock  con­ 
certs that bring in a lot of members  
of  the  outside  communtiy  and  
football weekends, when there is  
such  a  large  number  of  people  
present.  
Security Audit will also "review  
the exterior physical characteristics  
of the University premises as they  
affect personal safety of all  stu­ 
dents.  This review will consider  
lighting, fencing,  pedestrian  and  
vehicular routes, the possibility of  
intrusions  from  off-campus  ele­ 
ments," Murphy stated.  
When the  investigation  is  fin­ 
ished, Paczesny explained, a writ­ 
ten  report will  be  issued.  This  
report will give an analysis of the  
information gathered  and  recom­ 
mendations on ways the University  
may improve security.  
According to Murphy, "We have  

no intention of making recom-To assess the security of women on campus is the chief goal of a current investigation by Security Audit Inc. of the Notre Dame
[contfnued on page 3] 

. Security. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 
Mandatory measure 

Energy curtailment foreseen 

least of them is, wlio has to suffer? 
Mandatory curtailments have yet to be ordered, but Gov. Otis R. Bowen and his top energy advisers have said it is a foregone con­clusion they will be imposed for at least some untilities. 
The Public Service Commission already has declared a statewide energy emergency because of coal shortages caused by the 67 day old United Mine Workers strike. 
There now are four basic decis­ions to be made after a special PSC hearing Friday: 
1. 
Should mandatory curtailments be ordered. 

2. 
Should all classes of customers -industrial, commercial and res­idential -be affected. 

3. 
How should they be enforced. 

4. 
Should the cutbacks be imposed on a utility-to-utility basis or state­wide. 


None of the answers will be popular with everyone. 
If curtailments are ordered, something that's never happened in Indiana before, there will be complaints from those incon­venienced by them that proper

Cartoonist jim Berry gave a workshop illustrating his technique 
planning could have avoided the

at Mardi Gras last night. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 
problem or that the Bowen admin­istration relied on voluntary con­
[AP] -There are more questions than answers about mandatory'cut backs in electrical output. Not the servation for too long. West Virginia and some other 

William J. Watt, Bowen's chief states. And so far, he said, there energy adviser, denies that. He have been no serious disruptions notes that the coal strike is the because of the strike. longest in the industry's history, Recommendations of the Nat­and Indiana while just now begin­ional Electric Reliability Council ning to take emergency action is 
[continued on page 4]still in better shape than Ohio, 
Indiana coal shortage not to affect Notre Dame 
by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 
Although the Indiana Public Service Commission declared an energy emergency in Indiana Wednesday, Fr. James L. Riehle, director of energy conservation at Notre Dame, stated that the University will "probably not be affected at all" by Indiana's coal shortage. 
Riehle explained that Notre Dame has its own power plant, so that the University is pretty much self-sufficient energy-wise. He said that the Purchasing Depart­ment buys coal from "lliinois or wherever they can get a good deal on it," and estimated that enough coal is presently stored to heat and light the campus for six to eight weeks. 
The energy shortage, caused by the 67 day old United Mine Workers strike, will probably result in mandatory curtailments of at least some Indiana utilities, accord­ing to Gov. Otis R. Bowen and his top energy advisors. 
Mandatory cutbacks, according to Riehle, would probably not apply to the University since it has an independent power plant. 
Indiana and Michigan Electric Co., which supplies energy to the South Bend area, has reported about a 45-day stockpile of coal. When asked if Notre Dame might give some its coal supply to I & M, Riehle responded negatively, commenting, "What little we could give them wouldn't be enough to really help." 
Friday, February 10, 197B
the__observer 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and cold today. High in the mid to upper 20s. Increasing cloudiness and cold tonight. Low around 10. Mostly cloudy and cool tomorrow. HJab in the upper 20s. 
,..On Campus Today_~ 
Friday 
12:15 
pm film, "benin kingship ritual", nd art gallery. 

12:15 
pm mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, ~fortune ballroom. theology travelogue series, "peru, chile, &

12:15 
pm 


justice," david burrell, galvin aud. everyone welcome. 
1 pm informal talk, with cartoonist jim berry, Iafortune ballroom. 
1:30pm lecture "christians role in the mideast," dean edward todd, st. edwards's college, jerusalem, lib. lounge. 
3 pm film, "interview with alice neel," art gallery 
4:30pm colloquium, "symptotic behavior fo.r ~ ~i~~le hyperbolic conservation law with pen?d1~ 1n1t1al data," dr. joseph c. conlin, courant mst1tute of 
n.y.u. 226 ccmb. sponsored by math dept. 5:15pm mass and supper, bulla shed. 6 pm mardi gras, live entertainment, games and 
refreshments, stepan center. 7:30pm hockey, nd vs. michigan tech., ace. B pm black cultural arts festival, speaker tom gatewood, 
former nd football star, lib. aud. 8 pm lion's club travel series, "bright belgium," john strong, o'laughlin aud. $2 at the door. 9 pm nazz, featuring joe carey and bob sullivan, basement of Iafortune. 
Saturday 

Bam meeting, math teachers' regional meeting, carroll hall smc. Bam test, act. 204 O'shaughnessy hall. Bam test, gmat. eng. aud. 11 am fencing meet, nd, detroit, chicago, milwaukee area tech. ace. 3:30pm women's basketball, nd vs. northern ill. ace. 6pm mardi gras, live entertainment, games and refreshments, stepan center. 7:30pm hockey, nd vs. michigan tech, ace. 8 pm black cultural arts festival, disco fashion show, ace monogram rm. $2.50 presak!, $3 at the door. 
"The feeling was that the prem­ier basketball conference in the country ought ·to assist this school," said Marvin "Skeeter" Francis, assistant commissioner. 
The donation will come from the conference treasury, Francis said. 

9 pm nazz, featuring john salveson, basement of Iafortune. Sunday 
reception, fr. hesburgh greets new faculty, donor's 2 pm 
rm. morris inn. 1 p.m. basketball, nd vs. depaul, ace. 8 pm sophomore literary festival, edward albee, 
washington hall 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday. except during exam end vec:.ttlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame end Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased for no per year ($ 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O.. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlene ·46556. Second cteu postage peld, Notre Dame, lndlene, 46556. . The Observer Is • member of the Auocleted Preu. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 


Continuation of oil price freeze predicted by Iranian P.M. 
Teheran1 Iran (AP]--Prime Minis­on Western Europe and Japan. declining because we will be using ter Jamshid ·Amuzegar predicted They would pay more attention to so much of our production our­yesterday that world oil prices the Carter bill if they realize that selves. Congress must consider would remain ·frozen through the should Western Europe now be this too." end of 1978, but that gradual deprived of oil, any super power Amuzegar, who served as oil annual increases should be expect­can walk over the continent without minister before becoming primeed beginning next year. firing a shot."Amuzegar said. minister in a cabinet shuffle last 
Phased increases \luring the com­"If Japan succumbed to some August, said there were two main ing decade .will help impress on the controversial ideology because of factors dictating a year-long oil mind of consumers-especially the the lack of access to energy, would price freeze. There is still a glut"gas guzzlers" in the United the United States be able to live in on the market ... and not much States-that iol is a "precious and isolation?" he asked. demand. noble resource that must be conser­Iran's current reserves of 67 
"The economic recovery of West­
ved."Amuzegar told the Associat­billion barrels are bing depleted by ern Europe has not been satisfac­ed Press in an interview. two billion barrels a year and at tory and leaves a lot to be desired. Price hikes also will provide in­that pace will dry up completely in The lack of recovery has producedcentive for investment in alternate 32 years, he said. Iran itself is 15 to 16 million unemployed. Any means of ·energy. using a half million barrels a day increases of oil prices will further Amuzegar said further delay i~ . and local consumption is rising by damage efforts toward recovery
increases will only make another otl up to 18 percent a year, he added. and add to the number of shock inevitable in the coming In ten years, exports will begin unemployed," he said... decade: · 
The depletion of Iranian and other 

ND Alumni Clubs plan 
Middle Eastern oil reserves means that ''by the mid-1980's, prices will have to be doubled or triples which 


ethical dilemma seminar 
is not in the interest of anyone," he Two day long seminars on ethical Dame theologians who specialize in said. 

dilemmas faced by doctors, lawyers the study of ethics, Fr. James T.. 
Somehow "consumers and prod­and government officials will be Burtchaell, Stanley M. Hauerwas, ucers must get together to discuss sponsored this month by the Notre and Fr. Edward A. Malloy.

this matter and seek alternative Dame Alumni Clubs of Los Ange­Through panel presentations and sources of evergy. It is in the les, Orange County, San Jose and group discussion, participants will interest of both parties to look far 

San Francisco. explore case studies involving ethi­
into the future and not just at one One meeting will be held from 9 cal dilemmas faced by profes­government's term or office," he 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 25 at sionals. The goal will be to clarifysaid. 
the Sunset Canyon Recreational the principles and values by whieh Amuzegar said Congressional op­Center, U.C.L.A., and the other they should organize their profes­
ponents of President Carter's en­from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday, sional lives. ergy conservation program did not Feb. 26 at Stanford University, The registration fee of $50 sufficiently appreciate the precar­Palo Alto. the of
includes cost lunch. 
iousness of oil reserves and the de­The program is designed for Individuals interested in attendingvastating effedt the drying up of college and university graduates may contact Peter Nardi at (714)Middle East oil fields would have whose work is in the professions. It 988-5125 or Joe Mayer at (213) will be conducted by three Notre 476-1829. 
ACC to donate Sunday Services at Sacred Heart Church ~ to U. ot Evansvi/le._______~--------i 
[AP] -The seven universities in the Atlantic Coast Conference a­greed yesterday to donate $10,000 to the University of Evansville, whose entire basketball team was wiped out this season in an airplane crash. 
The donation, announced at the· end of the confernece's two day winter business meeting, is to help with the rebuilding of the Evans­ville basketball program. 

5:15pm Saturday Vigil Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30am Sunday Rev. Michael Glockner, C.S.C. 
10:45 am Rev. John A. Melloh, S.M. 12:15pm Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15pm Vespers 
Celebrant: Rev. John A. Melloh, S.M. Homilist: Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
r;:f:The Observerl THE WIZARD OF OZ The Wiz: Bob Brink Dorothy: Katie Kerwin The Munchkins: Lou Rivera, Beth Jones, Anne Griffin, Tom Behney, Anne Elliott, Mary Ann Cooke, Donna Drelick Tin Man: Rich LaBelle Scarecrows: Bryan Gruley, Leonard Pace Cowardly lion: Anthony Pace (rlated to the above) Flying Monkeys: Stacy Weav­er, Mark Rust, Mardi Nevin, Theresa Richeson The Lollipop Guild: Leigh Tunakan, Mary Jo Cushing Good Witch of East: Tom Nilsson lotos: Bob Varettoni, Mike Lewis Uncle Henry: John P. O'Con­nell Auntie Em: Sue Coliton Wicked Witch: BarbaralBreitenstein (AP retypist) )  NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 'OUR SECOND SCENE' AUDITIONS Needed: Actors, technicians, crew members, stage managers, etc. for our alte~ative season of plays. A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS by Robert Bolt Feb. 13 & 14--7 p.m.--Rm. 228 Moreau (SMC) LES PARENTS TERRIBLES by Jean Cocteau Feb. 14 & 15--7 p.m.--O'Laughlin Aud. (lobby) THE MADMAN AND THE NUN by S.l. Witkiewicz . . Feb. 18 & 19--11 a.m.--O'Laughlin Aud. (lobby) Open to all ND-SMC stude~ts  



~ 
;... 
. ' 
Bishop William McManus was the main celebrant for a mass celebrating the sanctity of life last night in the Moreau Seminary Chapel. [Photo by Sue Coliton] «"­

SMC 'Twenty-One Bar' to open 
by Marjorie lrr 
After nearly a year of planning, the Saint Mary's "Twenty-One Bar" will become a reality when it opens for business two weeks from today. 
Open to SMC and Notre Dame students who have reached 21, the bar will open its doors underneath the SMC dining hall for Happy Hour on Friday, Feb. 24, from 3 to 5:30p.m. In addition to weekly Friday Happy Hours, the bar will be open on Saturday nights from 8p.m. to 2a.m. 
Not intended to compete with the other local night spots, the SMC 
Service hired to investigateND security 
[continued from page I] mendations which would alter the unique atmosphere of Notre Dame's campus. Nor do we wish to induce a climate offear. Rather, it is our intention to strive for those security arrangements which will be conducive to personal safety and be within reasonable and aesthe­tic limits." Paczesny stated that Security Audit may come up with sugges­tions that the students do not like, but he emphasized, "We are taking a positive approach to the security problem. Security is very serious," he concluded. According to Roemer, the reason for the audit is the concern with security on campus, especially for women. Roemer explained that there have been many -disturbing incidents, which he would not like to see repeated. 

SendtheFID 
GJ..ove 




Bundle 
Pa.mper all the angels in your life this Valentine's Week ... and so easy to send almost anywhere in the country. 
Exclusive FTD Valentine container Only through FTD Florists 
Wygant Roral Co. Inc 327 Uncolnway West 232-3354 
Twenty-One Bar will offer a more relaxed atmosphere, according to Kathleen Rice, dean of student . affairs. "I think it will center more social life on campus," Rice said. 
According to Nancy Mogab, senior class President, "it won't be just a bar to stand around. It will be a place to sit down and relax or to dance.'' 
Budweiser and Miller Lite will be on tap. Burgundy, rose and chablis wines will also be served, and the usual snack bar fare will be offered. 
Bar cards, good for free admis­sion, will be sold to SMC and ND students of legal age. Without a card, $.50 admission will be charged at the door. The cards will go on sale the week befor~ the opening and will also be avatlable anytime thereafter. 
Mogab said administration and faculty members from SMC and ND are also invited, especially to the Friday Happy Hours. 
The bar will be operated under the supervision of an advisory board composed of Director of Student Affairs Mary Laverty; student body president Mary Ruka­vina; vice president for academic affairs Kathy Hedges; vice presi­dent for student affairs Kathy O'Connell; senior class president Nancy Mogab and junior class president Donna Noonan. 
The board is now taking applica­tions for a manager, assistant manager, four bartenders and four 
J.D. checkers. The manager must be an MBA or Law student. Mogab encouraged women to apply for the position. The assistant manager must be a SMC student, preferably a junior with a business back­ground. 


, .. .?. 
Paallalzl 

*pizza *liquor *sandwiches *beer 
•

•carry out ·• w1ne 410 N. Hill 233-2267 
Minutes from campus 
------•coupon•------­gooclfor I *1 off so• off I
L 
I .. 
c

8 any large pizza or any Hallan 
sandwich 
1 

••••-••coupon•••••••• 
The Twenty-One Bar. was financed by a $1,500 donatton fr?m the SMC Student Assembly whtch the college matched. The $3,000 has been put toward several neces­sities and improvements in the dining hall's lower level. 
A four-keg beer cooler was the initial investment. New couches, and chairs are being purchased and some of the large tables will be removed. There wilT also be a dance area and a new stereo system will be installed. Other new additions include pool and foosball tables and pinball and computer games. 
During bar hours, students under twenty one years old will not be admitted. According t? a ~oil conducted last semester, thts pohcy is not expected to cause much dissatisfaction among underclass­men. Charlie Flaim, director of SAGA Food Service at St. Mary's reported to the advisory board that business at the snack b~r is extremely slow on Saturday mghts. 
SMC sessions to help improve study skills 
SMC's Freshman Office is spon­soring a series of study skills sessions on Monday from six to seven pm in Regina Auditorium. 
The Feb. 13 session on "Making Texts Work for You" will be conducted by Dr. Thomas Selsor of the English Department, will dis­cuss studying math and science on Feb. 20 and Dr. Richard Leavy, psychology department will talk abont test anxiety Feb. 27. 

Playwri·ght, .~uthor Albee open·s .. Liter~ry. ·Festival 
Playwright. Edward: Albee .will· ·in. 1961. At this time his work open the Sophomore 'Literary Festi-·.'revealed the pattern of an Ameri­val. this Sunday ~itli an 8 p.m: can middle class family, living in appearance.· ,in, Wa~h~ngton H~U,. · illusion and dominated by an Albee has won two Pulitzer Pnzes,. overbearing woman. 
one for ~'A.·Delica,te Balance;''· His first full-length play, written in 19(16, and the other· for "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf," "Seascape/'. · · . · · . . . · appeared in 1962, and won him 
He .wrote hts first play, a JUventle . international acclaim. The play expenment, at the ag_e of twelvt!.:; . ·appeared on Broadway for two In 1958 he. wrote ".Zoo S~orY. ears. which was produced m Berhn m Y 1959. A year later Albee wrote . .'In 1963 Albee wrote ~n adapta­"The Death of Bessie Smith/' twn of Carson McCullers Ballad of which was based on the life of a Sad Cafe for the stage. This play famous black singer. ·was follow~d by "Tiny .~~ice" in 
His next two efforts "Sandbox" 1964, A Delicate Balance m 1966, and "American Drea~." appeared · and "All Over," written in 1971. 

Architecture chairman named to Century Mall 
Professor Ambrose M. Richard­son, ·chairman ·of the Department of Architecture at Notre-Dame, was recently chosen by South Bend Mayor Peter Nemeth to serve as advisor to the Architect Selection Committee for the Century Mall Parking Garage Project. 
According to Mayor Nemeth, Prof. Richardson · was asked to advise the ·Committee because of "his e~pertise in the field of architecture." Prof, Richardson previously served in a similar capacity for the original Century Center project. 
The purpose of the Committee, in Mayor Nemeth's words, is "basically to recommend an archi­tect for the job.'' In order to ensure that all those affected by the project will be represented, the eight . members appointed by the Mayor include representatives from the South Bend City Council, the Department of Redevelopment, the South Bend Public Transporta­tion Corporation, St. Joe Bank, and the Historic Preservation Commis­sion. . 
The Committee will interview all prospective applicants, narrowing the field down to one final choice, which it will then present for approval to the Department ·of Redevelopment, the Public Trans­portation Corporation, and the private investors who are financing the project. The final selection should be made by April or May of this year. 
coors awards 
distributorship 
to Coach Devine 
[AP] -Notre Dame football coach Dan Devine has been awarded one of four new Coors beer distributor­ships in Missouri, the Adolph Coors Co. announced yesterday. 
Devine, 52, and Drew Carver, 31, of Columbia, Mo. were a­warded a distributorship in the Jefferson City, Mo. area, the brewery said in a news release. Carver manages a men's shop. 
Coors announced last August that it would add Missouri and Iowa to its 14-state marketing area. 
Strong customer demand and increased production capacity were given as reasons for expansion. 
Coors beer may be available in Missouri as early as July, the company said. 
~.. ...... ·,~.• ..'f , .. ·~ ...•• ·,· •; ~'~ .. --·· .~ .............. ~ ·-······-··· 
.. -----·---..... ---. -..... -... ... ~ -.......---~ -'-""' ': . :;..~.·:J ....... ;. .......... '...... . ... ,... ,,. _.,_. -.•!.._ ••,#'.. 
Friday, February 10·, 1978
the observer 




Regulations discussed tor energy cutbacks -· 
[continued from page 1] call for percentage curtailments to . be triggered when a utility reaches a 4-day supply of coal. The plan is designed to protect against total failure of electric power systems. Three of the state's five largest utilities -Public Service Indiana, lt1dianapolis Power and Light Co. and Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Co. -are at or near the 40-day level now. Indiana and Michigan has about a 45-day stockpile and Northern Indiana Public Service Co. a 60-day supply. Watt favors an across-tile-board curtailment, affecting residential ,1s well as commercial and indust­rial customers. The residential user who doesn't conserve is "shafting someone out of a job," he added. Regardless of the decision on that point, industries will suffer the most if for no other reason than that's. where most of the power is consu'med and where the largest savings can be realized. It will not be without sacrifice however. Most industries, Watt· said, can absorb a 15 percent cutback without feeling severe hardship. A larger cutback could require production adjustments and lead to lay-offs. Therefore, a company might decide to close one or two days a week or run just 75 of 100 machines, laying off the other 25 operators. The most extreme circumstance would be rotating blackouts in which a utility shuts off power to selected service areas for 3 minutes to two hours at a time. That could cause severe disruptions for res­idential customers, as well as industries. "That wouldn't come until after 3 percent curtailment and we're talking about no more than 25 percent right now," Watt said. "I think we'll probably be able to avoid getting to that level." Another ticklish question is whether all utilities should be curtailed. Northern Indiana Public Service Co.-has more than an adequate of coal now but if curtail­

ments were ordered statewide NIPSCO might be requ.ired to share its wealth with other utilities such as Public Service Indiana. This is similar to the winter Of 1977, when natural gas supplies were shifted to 
the  most  critically  short  areas  
including northern Indiana.  
But NIPSCO  might ask,  "why  

should we penalize our customers because we were better 'prepared," Watt said. "And when you understand that SO percent of NIPSCO's total load is in five steel plants, you can understand their predicament." 


Enforcing curtailments is dif­ficult and in some cases impos­sible. Only major users of electric­ity can be monitored leaving res­idential customers on an honor system. 
For those who can be monitored the curtailment would be a per­centage of a base usage figure, probably an average amount of kilowatts used 'per week. For example, a utility might tell the customers it could use no more than 65-75 percent of that average. 
The most likely possibilities for enforcement, Watt said, are higher prices as a penalty for all power used above the limit of a total cutoff until the next week. Watt said he ·Jeans toward the cutoff because the pricing penalty would not achieve the ultimate objective -to save coal. 
·~Good for deliveries 
also! 
MILLER LITE NITE-this Mon, Tues, and Wed. $1.50 per pitcher 


Pizza & Play Dine & Drink 
Pool tables 
Full servicePinball Machines Video games 

1georgetown shopping plaza 277-4522 I emmons road south bend 

L ---------------------------------------J 

.................................................................. • , •
I ~~~~ N[} CPu!IN~ I I ~ '21-Wl~'' PA~ !
i ffBRIJ\td ~ij ,'J.S-FRj. ,%. I 
i• . ~io tD5 n1CIV5 AVAhArbL£ N(}JJ FOR..~ •j I MCtriA&-tf.~ mu~ BE. No M&4 cnz. L.tlw' ?1"UD1WI ! 
! Ptb.hlCuY.= fn\1.1 & 6nc. t5tXViott wir~t WiNffh &PtP.'fiJti. I ! f91.tfEAI!i[!,,CAf.U>E~~rn051BE\2J' AND WiLLi1Jn i 
f• O~i(AjN APAX.PrnoN M jfUDfiNrAPFAiR6VfRl.t,l.tli1tt1JS !• 
! . :.
i DtADLJ.Vt: ~~~R.'/ J7, FR.IDiY • 
! 8Vffth'c1\J~;~-CALL 43/q I 5'1\C... i 

~ I 
~•~w•••..••••...•••••••••••...•••...•..•••..•••••••....•••••••••.. 
·r:. 

·-~..
·~­
r·------------~----------­
1 







'Pinocchios 
Pizza 
s1 oo off 


any large Pizz_a 

with this coupon 

It looks like Snoopy has found a more comfortable spot than his doghouse atop the entrance to Regina Hall. [Photo by Sue Coljton] 




B-ba refunds for Holy Cross 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students desiring a refund for the Feb. 8 Holy Cross game should bring their student coupon book and ID card to the second floor windows of the ACC during the hours 9-12, 1-5 starting Monday, Feb. 13 thru Friday, Feb. 17 and Monday Feb. 20 thru Friday, Feb. 
24. There will be no limit to how many student tickets and ID cards a student may present. 
No refunds will be issued after Friday, Feb. 24. However, the Holy Cross coupon cannot be detached from the coupon book in order to obtain a refund. 

OPEN: MON--THURS 9AM-11PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
1BLOCK NORTH OF STAT.;:) LINE ON U.S. 31 
jiE.MfMB€R., BOOblc HAS .... 
• of"HE~ '£5QO(;,tE. :!fJJ"h.,..FF J! 
C\19 ~E~JS.~~~ut -::N~_?~JIWAKA j!'·-· ~ 

...... 






~~--~~-···1-~~;:~:c~s=~~; 
: a Valentine Classified : to Southern Cal game 
8th Winner of Four I WEEK!Golden Globe Awards! 


tllf.·~-t 
Weekdays 7:15-9:40-Sat.Sun. 1:45-4:15-7:15-9:40 PM 
h----SPECIAL FRIDAY 8:15 PM-----,• 
-MAJOR STUDIO-SNEAK PREVI 
Come early as 6 p.m.-See both films for price of one 
~ 
ioeadline: f Friday, Feb. 10 
: Rates:
•
: 
: Wo~ 
• 1-10 $1.00
• 
•
• 16-20 $1.65 
I• BRING YOUR AD UP : TO mE OBSERVER. 
:usE miS CONVENIENT +COUPON 
: -5 p.m. + his own bed instead of doubling up 
.................................!l•••••••••••••••••t as was formerly done. The number of students per room will vary. During those four days, the hotel pool will be reserved for ND/SMC students only. In addition, there will be a pep rally, Orangecounty and Los Angeles Alumni Clubs' activities, and special trips to places like Disneyland. According to Forlow Tours, ar­rangers of the trip, "Go Irish--Beat Trojans" signs will decorate the hotel, airports and students' bag­gage. There will be no limit on the number of seniors who may part­icipate in the trip. Noonan stres­sed, however, that "it will be a senior trip. We won't open it up 

by Jean Powley
r----------------------------1 
Saint Mary's Editor 
i ·The ND/SMC Class of '79's senior trip will be to the USC game in Los 
i 
Angeles next Thanksgiving, Andy McKenna and Donna Noonan, 
• 
i 
Junior Oass presidents announced yesterday. . Cost ofthe trip will be $280, which will include airfare, four nights o1 
• 
accomodations, a ticket to the game 
and a rented car for four days. 
l 
Meals and other a~tivities will be 
: 
• 
extra. The chartered planes will depart 
by noon on Wednesday, Nov. 22, 
and return very early Monday,i Nov.27 (before classes). "We wan­ted to give people the longest time 
• possible there," McKenna said, explaining the early morning re­
• 

turn.
•: 

At present, two planes are char­tered to depart directly from South
•

• 
Bend and others will depart from Chicago. However, the trip's or­ganizers are still trying to arrange 
for more planes to fly out of South Bend. While in California, students will


!%Observer i 
stay at the Sheraton Los Angeles, a higher quality hotel than where 
: 3rd floor LaFortune : 
students stayed in the past, ac­
cording to McKenna. This year, for1 Thursday: 10 a.m.• 5 p.m. : the first time, everyone will have 1 Frida 11 a.m. 
campuswide unless absolutely ne­cessary." 
Approximately 700 students went on last year's USC trip McKenna said they expect at least that many ·this November. "Southern Cal trips always get the most people. It's become a university tradition to go to Southern Cal and in a general poll of both schools we found that most kids wanted to go there. That's why we just went ahead and made the plane. It would have complicated things too much to bring it to a vote," he explained. 
Anyone planning on going to USC next Thanksgiving must submit a $50 nonrefundable deposit by the end of April. At that time you must declare with whom you wish to room and share a car while in California. Although these choices should be final, adjustments may be made in the fall if necessary, McKenna said. 
The balance will be due by Sept. 15. 
Further information on the paying of deposits will be forthcoming later in the semester. 
SMC to offer freshmen retreat 
''A Time To Be Me '' is the theme of a retreat offered to all St. Mary's freshmen Sunday from 3-6 p.m. in the Regina basement auditorium. 
Fr. Edward Krause, from Saint Mary's Campus Ministry, will cel­ebrate Mass and conduct a homily­discussion. Sr. Katherine Reichert, chairman of Campus Ministry, will then hold a conference. A buffet dinner will be served afterwards. 
"I think it will help the freshmen to take the Lenten season more seriously," Krause stated. "Hope­fully it will be a fruitful experience, and aid them in deciding what sacrifices they should make." 
Freshman Trida Burke headed the committee responsible for org­anizing the retreat. 
:,. -~--"(. ,. 
;· :: ....~ ~ .. ~~~·'~" ..-~.·'~·-~.,.! ~~ .;• f .1~ ~~ ,.-,~.,~.~ l('l(.,,.. fl...,lf-_?~ ~~ i.·~·~-1 ..1" J•,l',_,'.; ~.t.., '.iF. ··;:J J" ~~',.' .,~ ,~,_ ·~:··~# ~...Jf'..' ~ '.·t.I"J ~ f '.1'~ .~~·~ .,... _,~.t-w'• i ._, i• ..• 
~,."f".¥'1"'·.,·. -··,·-""., 'I"~·N.. .._•..,...r .,.,..,.,.... ,, ,-·• ~~.•·.'('. ···Y"Y-• ~'f"',".•~.-,• •,••,·~"f"·"f"·'r~~.-ti·-_• .. -"";;.,.?":"'1-.:'\"'~ <j_._.I.;J..:;~~~_..._,.. ~-: ··.!~>.:J~~~~:jl_.;J."cJ...: -:·:-·~.:~41:--:;.JA.~....IJ~~~u..>JF-"~"iTJTjtii-'':: ..;."»JJ§'d.§...i.:J.TP.iJ"';:•.j:tJ:,·.~:;~...r.... ·iJ.'?:JJ.J3..:t':t~JTL~j)~:,....·.-~: -r_,~J: r...J~ "..J. ·:~· .· ,.,...~_ ~·..r _·.:. 

opin ion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


A Family Dispute 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii fr. george crespin 
It is impossible to let Mr. for unionization. These three Thomas Mason's remarks to the events are the basis of the ULP Notre Dame family (Observer, Jan. charge against ND. 
31) pass without some comment. It is the firm belief of the Perhaps from where Mr. Mason is groundskeepers, the Teamsters, sitting, it may really seem as if it is the Groundskeepers Coalition and the Teamsters who are obstructing others that the motivation of the progress in the whole issue of University was clearly to frustrate unionization at Notre Dame, but it unionization efforts at ND. The is another quite different perspec­motivation of the University is tive. what will be on trial at the Feb. 15 
Mr. Mason suggests that the hearing. Teamsters have prevented the As part of an obvious strategy to National Labor Relations Board discredit the Teamsters, Mr. (NLRB) from issuing its determina­Mason accuses them of "obstruc­tion by filing an Unfair Labor ting" the resolution of the conflict. Practice (ULP) against the Univer­He mentions the "good faith act" sity. While the ULP remains to be on the part of the University in its determined in the official hearing, attempt to resolve the dispute. The the NLRB felt that there was "good faith act by the University" sufficient merit to issue a complaint was the commitment by Fr. against ND. The complaint could Hesburgh on Oct. 14, 1977 "to be compared to an indictment withdraw the University's motion brought by a Grand Jury, and it is presently pending before the NLRB the NLRB, not the Teamsters, who ........and to work with the NLRB in will be pursuing the case against order that a representation election ND. may be held for ground crew 
In addition, Mr. Mason creates employees with out undue del~;iy." the impression that there is little or (Bold Print added.) no connection between the ULP Mr. Mason states that "the and the determination to be made University has stood by its commit­by the same NLRB as to the ment in this matter." But it has appropriate size of the bargaining been three and a half months since unit. The groundskeepers and the the commitment was made, and the Teamsters would like to bargaining grounds crew has not yet been unit to be composed solely of the 21 allowed to have the promised groundskeepers. The University election. It was the University and has unilaterally determined to ex­not the Teamsters that placed the pand the unit to 413 employees, the obstacle to the elections. majority of whom have not raised Despite Mr. Mason's allegations the union question. The Universitv. the real dispute is between the of course, has the legal right to University and some of its employ­contest the bargaining unit propo­ees, specifically at present the sed by the union, and, if this­groundskeepers. The Teamsters were the only action on the did not initiate the struggle. The University's part, there would be groundskeepers requested their as­no objective reason to question its sitance (as subsequently did the motivation. However, this action laundry workers and as now some has not occurred in a vacuum. of the dining hall employees are 
The University had threatened to doing). Fortunately for the workers terminate the 21 groundskeepers. in question, the Teamsters were It actually did subcontract out the willing to undertake this difficult, dining hall just when there was costly and uphill struggle. But it is developing among the employees a extremely important to remember serious interest in unionization. that the dispute is between the Finally, it announced unpreceden­University and many of the lowest ted mid-year salary increases to paid and least protected members many of its employees among of the Notre Dame family. Any whom included several groups that other impression is grossly mis­
were beginning to express a desire leading. 





P.O. BOXQ 
EvER. suvc.£ 
~ 1-/E 
111/S 
l\brHtM5 &/IG? ovr Lcr:KJt../6 
rd. T"'!r:xJBL-£.
J 
P.~· 
Sex Pistols: A Primal Scream! 
christopher stewart 
Upon reading Dan Salemi's a) you are in dire need of future, revealing a society imbed­"Rage of the Sex Pistols" with grammatical clarification regarding ded in stark terror as humanOids 
bemused amazement, it momentar­the useage of the word "great." 
live by the progressive rules of ily occured to me to recheck the b) you are desperately misinfor­anarchism, viciousness and hatred. 
title of the paper. I thought it was med in essential historical facts The Pistols are the conspicuous an article worthy of the investiga­concerning rock's premiere per­progenitors of this emerging race. 
tive tabloid National Star, possibly formers. 
Other groups of this ilk desper­The Enquirer. But The Observer? c) you are actually Johnny ately seek to supercede the colossal Surely your newspaper can be Rotten's cousin notoriety of the Pistols. Dandies utilized for better purposes than d) you are plain ignorant such as the Heart Attacks, The elaborating on these raving nean­e) all of the above. 
Disgustings, Sic F-cks, Dictators,
derthals. Sir, have your ears ever been Dead Boys, (get
Stranglers, and Hatred. Strangulation. Destrnc· graced by the tunes of the true this!) Richard Hell and the Voi­tlon and violence. Vomiting. The immortals such as The Beatles, doids insure us that. happy days are Sex Pistols are in reality an Yardbirds, Cream, Kinks, Blind here again. My only consolation is amalgamation of inept nonentities Faith, Byrds, Jethro Tull, Moody that none of them have their own 
parading about as musicians, the Blues, C.S.N.Y., and Steely Dan? 
TV show yet. 
new messiahs of Punk. This group, Even the Tubes, those masters of The Sex Pistols unconditionallywhose lunacy may represent the paradox rock, surpass your pistol stink (their album is mediocre at prevailing norm for the mass of heroes in creative exhibitionism. 
best).
brainless, frustrated young twerps (Now there is a group to see in In a vision, God has ordered me The Sex Pistols to
dotting the earth, exemplifying an concert!) are to issue the following proclamation: 
insidious trend in our culture: the rock music what kiddie porn is to "Lovers of punk, beware. 
sanctification of degradation. I films. Unfortunately, the Pistols Foreswear thy evil listening habits, wonder, do they always vomit on cannot be legislated out of exis­as I, the Lord God of Disc, shall people to express their gratitude; tence. Their rape of rock, presently soon annihilate this plague of punk. 
assault <:ecretaries; strangle one being heralded as the wave of the For pennance, hear. "Sgt. Pepper"another ("good clean fun"); and future, is indeed a sacri­
, "Quadrophenia", "Live at 
exhort their cretin followers to "do lege: a polluted wave flowina from Leeds", by the Who, and "Right a hiroshima" on the concert halls sewer mentalities, creating open on Time" by the Brothers Johnson which are foolish enough to book cesspools in the delicate emottonaJ each ten times until your idiocy is them? (From a soiled cloud above waters of youth. 
purged. Those under 18, anydoes the reigning Emporer of Punk You claim "Rock and Roll is mixture of Donny Osmond and Heaven, Adolph Hitler, smile as he anger, eroticism, and intensity." 
Shaun Cassidy will suffice. 
witnesses the spectacle of rambun­On a multiple choice quiz, you Alas, if you refuse to repent and ctious anarchism so tastelessly score 33 percent, the latter descrip­be saved, then in the name of the exhibited by the Pistol's throngs, tion being the saving grace of an Most Holy Lord, Elvis Presley, I resurrecting memories of his pet otherwise inane statement. My hereby condemn thee to everlast­Nazi Youth Party days gone by). appreciation of music stems from ing punishment of listening (at 200 My love for music is deep, the desire to be uplifted emotional­decibels on four Marantz speakers) personal, and second only to mom. ly, rather than to manipulate rock to Richard Hell and the Voidoids Having invested over $10,000 in intoa purgative agent for repressed for all eternity. 
45's, albums, tapes and stereos, base or demonic predilictions. while witnessing over 200 concerts, When angry, I suggest running or (including the monster festivals at the weight room; when horney, use Poconos and Watkins Glen) I am your wits or a local brothel. Phones outraged and highly indignant by are poor substitutes for the real your descriptive phraseology con­thing. Leave music for the mo­cerning these aberrations of the ments when life should be festive Mr. Salemi's response to Mr. human species. "The Sex Pistols and happy, if nothing else. Stewart: 
are a great rock and roll band, The Sex Pistols are symptoms of maybe the greatest ever." Are yot. a diseased society. Their followers serious? Maybe you are still are predominantly satiated thrill "I've seen Richard Hell in suffering the after effects of your seekers, void of all vision and concert and he is nothing short of hangover from the Texas-NO values. • Should there still be any incredible. I don't think I'll ever game! In my humble opinion, this doubt to the truth that I speak, see see you in concert, though, because 
comment indicates one of the the film Oockwork Orange. This all the groups you like have either following: haunting classic peers into the broken up or stopped touring." 
After spending some time with Government, and Hall Council 
this virtually new constitution, it members should support this one. became obvious to me that it h ad Hopefully, future amending pro­several questionable areas. First, cesses will take these aforemen­the Board of Commissioners which 

Support 

tioned areas into consideration. has the power to assess student Moreover, the revising processfunds has only two of its seven itself might be enhanced by havingmembers elected directly by the an appoiinted representative from 
student gov't 


constitution 

student body. each hall participate in future Second, the nominating and revising sessions. appointment boards for the offices Once again, let us give Student of Student Government Treasurer 
Government its new constitution. Dear Editor: and Student Union Director do not Let us give the hard-working HPC 
As a member of the Morrissey have any incoming officers on them committee of Tom Byrne, Tracy Hall Council and a student inte­-the newly-elected student body Kee, and Bill McLean their deser­rested in campus government, I president, and student body vice ved praise. However, let us not 
would like to express a few feelings president included. forget that this document is merely about the revised Student Govern­Further, the Judicial Council is "a framework which can be ment Constitution which is being given no statement of purpose. amended as experience dictates." proposed to the various hall coun­Nevertheless, a new constitution 
cils of Notre Dame. is deperately needed by Student Bruce E. Blanco 
Thanks to dining hall 


staff 

Dear Editor: 
I would like to commend all south jining hall workers-student, full­time staff, and administrative employees-who put forth great effort to keep the dining hall in operation during the recent bliz­zard. Most full-time employees were unable to report to work due to the impossible road conditions. The south dining hall lacked the staff necessary to maintain opera­tion. 
In order to fulfill the demand of the Notre Dame community, the few full-time employees available were requested to work overtime. They worked steadily and untir­ingly. In addition, all student employees were called upon to help 
where necessary. Student re­sponse was encouraging. Emplo­yees volunteered unlimited time. They did everything from filling salt shakers to making pizzas, in addition to their own job assign­ments. Money did not seem to be a prime consideration as some of the jobs, such as washing employee jackets, were done on their own time. They worked out of necessity and consideration for others. It was refreshing to see such spirit. Their attitude did much to reaffirm my faith in mankind. 
Gratitude is extended to the student coordinators who worked over-time to organize the workers and oversee all operations. They did an impressive job. Equally impressive was the dedication and diligent work of the south dining hall administrator, Mr. Carson Wells, and Managers Mr. Robin­son and Mr. Smith. These men responded willingly and compe­tently to the situation. I appreciate a job well-done by everyone involved. 
Mary Ann Moore 
~-~ ~----­


Letters to a Lonely God 
The Flight Patterns Of The Trade Winds 


It is the evening of Ash Wednesday, and I am tired. When I came into my room a little while ago, I found my dog, Darby O'Gill, trying to make love to a wax unicorn. Unicorns are mythical animals, but there is nothing mythical about a wax ear. I fear there is a wax ear now making 
its home in Darby's stomach. Also, a little wind-up toy of Woodstock has teeth marks in its plastic sides, and there is a devirginated pillow whose cat and mouse characters should be blushing with put­rage, the victims of the passions of a lonely dog. 
"Oh, Darby, Darby," I say, taking him on my knee for a talk. "No comfort is to be found in creatures of plastic or wax, and a flesh and blood dog can never find true happiness with a pillow." I should be angry with O'Gill, but it is not easy to be angry with a small beastie who has been deceived by mere appearances. Often enough, I have been deceived by mere appearances myself. Mere appearances can be very deceptive; and when you're just a dog, a plastic Woodstock is a bird worth tailing; if unicorns must come as wax or myth, wax needs watching, because there is no way you can stomach a myth. 
Darby appears to be listening, but from the way his eyes gaze off, I suspect he is waiting to have a go at the unicorn's other ear. He is not really grateful for my trying to save him from mere appearances. 
As I said before, it is Ash Wednesday, 
and I am tired, and as I sit, trying to warn 
Darby against the glint and glitter of. 
things, I think of another conversation held 
an hour earlier, that made me realize how 
difficult it is, as a klutzy cleric, to gaze into 
the heart of truth. 
"The problem with religion," the young 
man of the conversation had said, "is that 
God always makes you feel so inade­
quate.'' 
"Well," I said, "maybe God knows 
something we don't know." 
"Obviously, He does," the young man said. "Obviously, He would be an interesting person to talk to, all three of Him; knowing the real age of the universe, and the flight patterns of the trade winds, from Eastport to Sandy Hook.'' 
''The flight patterns of the trade winds,'' I said, "from Eastport to Sandy Hook, seems like information that the weather man might have. My grandfather, the New England sea captain, could have told you about the trade winds from Eastport to Sandy Hook." 
"Your grandfather, or anybody's grand­father, sounds more interesting than the God I get to hear about at Mass every 
"Liturgy never brings me to a point ·-,here I can talk comfortably with the Lord about the things I really need to hear. ·I am always using Isaiah's words, or the Psalmist's words, or the Campus Mini­stry's words to tell God how .I am a worm and a schlmiel and an ingrate, grinding widows and orphans into the dust. I've never ground down any orphans. My own mother is a Widow; and if anything happened to her, I would be an orphan myself. I wouldn't stand for anyone grinding down widows and orphans." 
My God has died upon the cross; and in slums and gh~ttoes, the nails are being driven through sinless hands and blameless feet. 
Sunday morning," the young man said. "Maybe I could spend my Sunday morn­ings with your grandfather?" 
I raised my eyes to the sky, as though to indicate that Grandpa was now sailing with the Galilean fishermen on the glassy sea that has no winds. 
''The reason w'ny God makes me feel inadequate," said the young man, "is that all the churches ever talk about is sin. How can I Jove God--how can I believe God loves me--if the only subject of conversation between us is how sinful I am, and how perfect He is." 
"Benjamin Franklin," I replied encou­ragingly, "once remarked that he was confident when he met the Almighty, God would greet him the way_ in which one gentlemen always greets another. No prodigal's homecoming for old Ben." 
"Even'if you did," I said, "nobody's perfect.'' 
"I'm not perfect," the young man said· humbly, "but if God is my Father,must I always--if we're to get alon_g--be telling him what a horse's ass I am?" _ 
"There is an experience that men have with God," I said, "when they talk with him familiarly as a friend: saints caught up to the third heaven; mystics gazing into God's holy face. Afterwards, in trying to report their experience, they always say that words fail them. They know neither the language nor the metaphors to describe for us what God, or the experience of God, is like." 
"I would just like to ask God questions," the young man said. "I'm tired of a religion that is all guilt, and no answers." 
It is Ash Wednesday, and I am tired. In four different .liturgies today, I have proclaimed a day of fast, and imposed ashes signifying the mortality of:sinful men. Compared with the truth to be revealed in the heart of light, I know I am a shadow ministering unsubstantial symbols unto the shadows that live mortally in flesh. When you are tired on Ash Wednesday, it is easy to feel like a minister of the mere appearances of things, in a faith that is all guilt and no answers. 
I say to Darby, still on my knee: "You are deluded by plastic and wax in the shape of Woodstock and unicorns. ·I look on the shape of a crucifix and say it is Christ's body broken by my sin. Is the priest any smarter than the pooch?" Darby makes no answer. He merely closes his eyes and goes to sleep. 
On Ash Wednesday, tired from remem­bering that man is dust, I am discouraged from the evidence of mere appearances. It is clear to me that man is dust: a student died last week, a friend was buried two weeks ago, and somewhere a baby struggles to live through the night. My God has died upon the cross; and in slums and ghettoes, the nails are being driven through sinless hands and blameless feet. 
It's hard to believe that even for God, Easter has come. Until I share Easter, my ministry (as the young man said) must always seem more effective as a witness to man's misery than to God's glory. 
Ifonly Darby could become a part of the unicorn myth, meeting the horned beast in its own graceful haunts, he would realize how wax can lie. Ifonly Woodstock were Darby's little friend rather than Snoopy's little friend, how watchful Darby would be about the birds he makes love to. Ifonly I, as a priest, knew heaven, rather than the shadows and appearances of heaven, maybe I could tell the young man (who would be an orphan, if he didn't have a mother) whether God in His glory talks to his angels and saints about the real age of the universe and the flight patterns of the trade winds, from Eastport to Sandy Hook. 
John Trauolta and Saturda!J Night Feuer 
Saturday Night Fever, now playing at the River Park, is an entertaining and unpretentious film about the maturation of a young man in a lower middle class section of Brooklyn. The young man's name is Tony Manero and the world he lives in is filled with violence, easy sex, cheap booze and little else. Tony seems content with this life because he commands his friends' respect and is idolized by his peers, but this life is headed nowhere and he knows it. Thus, the 'Fever' Tony gets on Saturday night is not dancing fever but the restless urge to drop everything and leave it all behind. Yet because Tony isn't that strong he opts to go through the motions of a 9 to 5 job and then on Saturday retreats into the fantastic world of a futuristic dance hall. 
John Travolta, in his first starring role, plays the part of Tony Manero and his screen debut is nothing short of stunning. He simply overpowers the audience with his animal magnetism and vicious inten­sity. The film has already made him one of Hollywood's hottest properties and with the way he fills up the screen it's not at all surprising. From the very first moment you see him stroll down the street in the movie's opening scene you feel you are in the presence of a 'star.' 
The fact that John Travolta can act might come as a bit of a shock to those who have seen him in the role of the amiable imbecile on Welcome Back Kotter, but in Saturday Night Fever, Johnny shows he can do more than just mug outrageously; he shows he can act, and act intelligently. His tony Manero is an incredible blend of swagger and uneasiness, arrogance and compas­sion. In the hands of a lesser actor, Tony might have become an insufferable bore but Travolta's interpretation gives Tony a certain dignity that belies all the superficial pomposity. For' Tony Manero is not an insensitive disco idol (as the advertise­"'"nts for the film suggest) but a confused and inarticulate young man trying to make some sense of his life and failing at every turn. Travolta projects this confusion, this aching vulnerability, this inarticulate sensitivity so deftly it almost reminds one ofBrando's Terry Malloy. He is that good. 
When we first meet Tony he is strutting down the street as if he owns it. Dressed in black leather boots, tight form fitting pants and shirt, and a black leather jacket, he walks resolutely, with his head thrown back so that the girls might get a better look at him. He seems almost out of place amid the dull and monochromatic struc­tures of lower Brooklyn. 
It is with a kind of shock that we witness Tony suffer the indignity of being spurned by a lovely young girl he tries to pick up, and then the embarassment of being yelled at by his employer when he is late returning a can of paint. Tony Manero may look and act like a movie star but he is only a young, underpaid assistant in a hardware store. 
He lives with his parents in an undistin­guished two-story house. Tony's father is an unemployed construction worker who hates his son's guts and his mother is a religious fanatic who crosses herself every­time someone mentions her older son, Frank Jr., who is a priest. The parents are overdrawn but thankfully we see little of them for Tony is not often at home. He is either out cruising in a beat-up automobile looking for kicks or perfecting his dance steps in a local studio. 
Tony, you see, likes to dance. In fact, he lives only to dance. Nothing else matters to him; not cars, not money, not even girls. He is the best dancer in the neighborhood and he lives only for Saturday night when he can go down to the local disco with his friends, strut his stuff, and leave all the hassles of . day-to-day living behind. For one night of the week Tony Manero is a star. 
In the surreal world of flashing, multicolored lights and manufactured mist, Tony and his gang are the center of attention: girls come up to him and beg 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
' 

him to dance; boys murmur deferential greetings when he walks past: and everyone moves back to give him the dance floor when he decides to take over. And take over Tony does, because the kid can dance. Spinning, strolling, strutting across the floor, Tony mesmerizes his audience with his incredible agility. Flanked on every side by dozens of people applauding his every move, Tony feeds the fever that has been building in him all week. 
The music, the dancing, the ambience of the disco are all stunning. Director John Badham truly creates a surreal world in which time and reality appear to be absent. 
One can understand why Tony longs to return here every Saturday night. But Tony also lives in the real world six days a week, and it ~ the problems that he 

by dom salemi 
sense of values. He is even able to make us believe that he can fall in love with a shallow woman named Stephanie (Karen Gorney) who never shows him one moment of compassion. Thus in one of the film's most moving scenes, the audience discov­ers that Tony is in love with Stephanie not when they are dancing, or making love, but when he is telling her about the Verrazano bridge. 
They are sitting on a park bench on the Bay River Parkway, looking out on the Hudson and the bridge. Tony is telling Stephanie everything about the structure, how many miles of cable were used in its construction, how much concrete was poured, etc., when suddenly he shrugs his shoulders in self-conscious embarrass­ment, realizing he must be. boring her. 
*Observer · 




Features .. 
encounters here that force him to reevalu­ate his life. Unfortunately, Badham is not as dexterous at handling narrative as he is -at evoking atmosphere and Fever almost sinks amidst a number of banal subplots. There is the obligatory fight scene with the rival gang, complete with the tag-along member of the outfit who gets killed trying to prove himself, and the young girl who wants to be a woman; all cliches but all redeemed by the power of Travolta's performance. Travolta transforms these potentially embarassing scenarios into backdrops in front of which he can movingly reassess his sense of self and his 
'F 
Curtailing his monologue, he searches for something to say to her, but all he can manage is the horrifying story of a man who fell off the bridge while he was pouring concrete. After recounting this story, Tony looks at Stephanie to see if she notices his nervousness, and with some­thing between a frown and a grin, adds: "That dumb f---," almost as if to say "yeah, I'm the dumb f---for talking about all this garbage when all I wanted to do was tell you I love you, but I'm too stupid.'' 
A beautiful scene in an honest a:ad enlightening film. Look out for John Travolta, he's a comer. 
Friday, February 10, 1978
the observer
8 

Senate proposal to restrict intelligence tactics 
[AP] • A Senate committee issued a blueprint for U.S. intelli­gence gathering yesterday which would legally bar the use of assassination and terrorism and prohibit CIA efforts to overthrow "democratic" governments. 
The draft proposal, certain to be subjected to months of hearings and debates was issued by the Senate Intelligence Committee in an attempt to place the FBI and CIA under new charters with specific guidelines and restraints and criminal and civil penalties for violations. 
Entries due for film contest 
The deadline for entries in the fifth annual Academy Student Film Awards competition is Saturday, April I. 1978, according to Anthony Loeb, regional coordinator. 
Loeb, chairman of the film department at Columbia College, urged young filmmakers interested in the competition to write him at 600 S. Michigan Ave .. Chicago, IL 60605, for entry forms. If there are questions. he can be reached at (.112) 663-1600. 
The Student Film Awards com­petition, designed to recognize outstanding achievement in film production by college students, is a program of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and the Academy foundation. and is co­sponsored by American Telephone and Telegraph Company. 
Student filmmakers residing in Indiana, Illinois. Iowa, Wisconsin. Minnesota. and Michigan are eli­gible to enter the regional competi­tion and compete for cash awards and trophies to be awarded by the Academy for outstanding achieve­ment in four categories: animated, · documentary, dramatic, and exper­imental. 
To be eligible, films must have been completed after April l, 197':', · in a student-teacher relationship within the curriculum of an accr dited college or university. Fil. of any length in 16, 35, or 70 mm may be submitted. Eight mm films may be considered in the regional competition. but must be converted to a larger format in order to be eligible for the finals. 
Following regional selections, Loeb said that the semi-finalists will compete against films selected in eight other regions, and will be judged by the Academy's voting membership of film industry pro­fessionals. Winners will be announced on May 21, 1978, in ceremonies at the Academy's head­quarters in Beverly Hills. 
Film series to highlight women & law 
"Women and the Law," a film series sponsored by the Women's Rights A'>!>ociation, will begin this Monday night with "A Historical Overview ( 1870-1921)." The films will be shown from 12:30 to I pm each Monday through May 1 in Rm. 105 of the Law School. 
The series is termed ''A Video Course in Color." Future film topics include rape, the juvenile justice system, marriage. divorce,
... 
and welfare. 


Reps elected to SMC assembly 
Three new members of the St. Mary's Stu?ent Assembly were chosen in special elections held Wednesday. Lisa Rossi and Jannis Warner represent Holy Cross while Justin Shepard is from Regina. The elections were held to fill three vacancies in the assembly. 
Maria-Lisa Mignanelli, Election Commissioner, commented that turnout was small but this is probably because it was a special election at an unusual time." She hopes, however, ''that there will be a 100 percent turnout for the 
elections in April." 
' " 
.......... 
headed by Sen. Walter D. Huddle­ston, 1-KY, the draft bill reorgan­izes the intelligence community by law in a manner similar to that laid out by a recent executive order issued by President Carter. 
The director of central intelli­gence, currently Adin. Stansfield Turner, is promoted to director of national intelligence, a position which makes him in effect chair­man of the board of the intelligence communitv. _ 
Under the proposal, the new national intelligence director would 
be appointed to  a,  six  year  term  
which  would  be  rene wable  only  
once.  

He would have final authority for 
the budgets of all intelligence agencies and responsibility to set the nation's intelligence goals and missions. One of the basic princi­ples of the proposal is that intelli­gence agencies must have evidence that a U.S. citizen or resident alien has violated the law before an investigation can be opened inside the United States. 
It also proposes than an intelli­gence agency must obtain a war­rant before engaging in wiretap­ping or mail opening. The Ameri­can Civil Liberties Union hailed these and other provisions of the proposal saying they provide a good starting point for further improvements. 

WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL IN THE AIR FORCE. 
But its authors immediately acknowledged disagreements remain and that the draft proposal will be criticized both as too restrictive and too permissive. 
Sen. Birch Bayh, D-IN, chairman of the committee, said that intro­duction of the charter legislation means that Congress wants to give our intelligence agencies a clear mandate to carry on their essential work under the rules of law. 
Although the report gave no reason for specifying the illegality of overthrowing "democratic" governments, it was seen as a committee effort to leave a loophole in the plan that could allow future action against unfriendly non­democratic countries. 
The CIA has in the past been accused of attempting to assassin­ate Cuban President Fidel Castro and with participating in the 1973 overthrow of the democratically elected government of Chilean Marxist Salvador Allende. 

The draft bill bars the "paid" use by · intelligence agencies of journalists, missionaries, or pro­fessors and students. It does not prohibit voluntary cooperation from such persons. 
It also prohibits activities inten­
ded or likely to create mass destruction of property, epidemics or shortages of food or water. 
Written by a subcommittee 



NOTRE J-~.~~t-=v=-~-~~~1! 


DAME -~~"~~~(l811. ;,.,il
A.C.C. 

Come on along and get that 


WED. FEB. 15 ~:::~:~:c~~N' 
thru WED.-THURS.-FRI. 8P.M. SAT.·NDON; 4 P.M.; 8P.M.SUN. FEB. 19 SUN.-2 P.M. and 6P.M. 
Tickets now on sale:
PRICES: 

NOTRE DAME A. C. C.
13.50 . 15.00 -16.00 

BOX OFFICE Half price MON.-SAT. 9 to s for ND/SMC students for Wed., Thurs. 8:00pmSat. 12:00noon Sun. 6:00pm shows 
Women start out on the same footing as men in Air Force 
ROTC. Women wear the sam<' msigma and hold the 'ame cadet positions in AFROTC. just as thev do later on "' Air 
Force officers 
And the same AFROTC ,choiM,hip Crln he you" '" d woman If vou qualify. you cdn havl:' your tlnt1on. b<xlk cosh and lab fees paid by the AIT Force. and receive $1 (X) a month for othPr exrense~. It h~lp5 fn.'P vou to concenlrdte on vour education And that'' important · -· 
As an Air Forcr officer. you'll he l'Xperted to use your tron1 
mg and education. and be a l<>ader rnanagmg rworle ,md c..:omplex .,ystPm~. You'll hi! handl?d 1:-'Xecutivl-' Tt'.,pon..,lhditv ..;tarting u:1th vour first 1nh 
It'... c1 yreat WdV tiJ ~w Pqual. <md d grl'~l w.w to .,l~rvl~ vour country Ch~?ck into the AFHOTC rrnyrdm .11 vour c.unpu.., Be ... uri! to a-;k about AFHOTC ..;cholar.,hlr... -vou rnc1v hP help111g vour.,plf l'drn dn l'Xciting rwv.: hfe.. tvle 
CALL CAPT. DAVIS AT 283-6634 
Gateway Ia a great way of life. 
Sunshine Celebration and Notre Dame Student Union presents
OPPORTUNITIES in HIGH TECHNOLOGY with GTE AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC. 
We're GTE Automatic Electric and we've taken the initiative in the development of high speed computer controlled tele­communications systems. 
We respond to an individual's career objectives in the following ways: 
• 
Work environment encourages new ideas; 

• 
Early career accountability for your own work; 

• 
Compensation and advancement based on individual achievement. 


Our representatives will be on campus: THURS., MARCH 2, 1978 to interview for the following positions: PRODUCT, PROCESS AND MARKETING ENGINEEHS 
For further infOt"mation, ask at your Placement Office or see our ad in the College Placement \lanual. 
(ffi3 AUTOmATIC ELECTRIC 
err lutomatic 1:'/ectrir is all fqual Oppommitl' t.mpfuyer 
' .~ "' .
.. .; ,} .~ .. ­
-...._.•••.• ,.j,.• ~· •.' • 
-~ 


and special guest STARZ 

mond~y feb 27 7:30pm notre dame a.c.c. 
All seats reserved: 
$7.00 floor festival style 
$7.00 reserved chair style 
$6.00 reserved bleacher 
on sale Monday at Student Ticket. office at A.C 
' 

. ~~-.J.-...--.-~~-------·-----....·--· ... -.. -.-... --............. -..... __ ........ ·-..... --......... ,. ...) 

·...t~··~·::__ 

-------------~----------------------~------~----------~------------~--------~---------------------------------------.---.-------------­
Friday, February 10, 1978 
the· observer 

27, 700 affected 




Auto industry shutdowr:-causes lay-offs . 
DETROIT [AP] • American idle 5,000 workers in Milwaukee down because of high inventories time to reach all assembly plants by were hurt by January blizzards in Motors Corp. will shut down all and Kenosha, WI and 1,100 in , of Plymouth Volare a!ld Dodge next week, said spokesman Paul the East and Midwest, AMC said. three of its auto plants in the Brampton, Ontario. Aspen cars, Chrysler satd. . Preuss. AMC, plagued by shrinking United States and. Canada next While AMC has had scattered Closed for a second stratght At AMC, spokesman Fred sales of passenger cars, has indef­week because of high inventories of plant closings in recent months week because of high inventories Northard said the week long shut-initely laid off 300 workers in unsold cars and lingering weather because of its lag in car sales this will be Chrysler's assembly plants down was partly necessitated by connection with a · cutback in problems AMC said Thursday. is the first time in the 1978 model in Newark, DE and St. Louis, MO plans to divert more than 100 assembly line speed~ at its Wiscon­
year it has shut down all its car affecting 10,400 workers. car-hauling trucks to its Jeep sin plants.
The one-week AMC shutdown, building operations. Ford said a strike-caused parts assembly plant in Toledo. At AMC's annual. meeting on along with closings by Chrysler The Milwaukee plant makes car shortage will force the shutdown . Jeeps have been piling up out-Feb.l, President Gerald MeyersCorp. and Ford Motor Co., will idle bodies and the Kenosha and next week of the passenger car stde the Toledo plant because had said the adjustment in produc­at least 27,700 hourly auto workers Brampton plants make Concords, assembly line at its Louisville, KY railroad cars have been unavailable tion output would cancel the needs next week. General Motors Corp., 
Matadors, Gremlins and Pacers. plant, which builds Ford ITis. since the Midwest blizzard in late for any more shut downs or layoffs.
meanwhile, expects all its plants to will A at a IN AMC's and
Another 8,500 workers be strike Connersville January, he said. Jeep specialtybe operating. idled for the next two weeks at Ford subsidiary plant ended this Heavy inventories of cars, a . vehicle sales remain strong, but its AMC, citing poor sales aggra­Chrysler Corp.'s Hamtramck week but the plant won't be able to problem for struggling AMC for passenger car sales have shrunk to vated by severe winter weather will assembly plant, which will close produce air conditioning parts in months, grew greater when sales 2 percent of the U.S. market. 
From a country as clean and un­spoiled as Canada, you'd expect a very special taste. Fresh from North America's most experienced brewery, Molson has Ale, spirited Canadian Beer, been making friends on both sides of the or smooth Golden. border since 1786. Or all three. 
you proudly by Mart1e.t Importing Co., Inc., Great Neck, N: Y. 


Friday, February 10, 1978 

. -...· 
~ 
.. . ... 
. . . 

,' ... 
.. , .. 
. . . . 
.... .. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SPECIAL 
' ... 


WIN A SCHOLARSHIP 
Come to a -FREE SPEED READING LESSON 
Increase Your Reading Speed 50-100°/o 
COMPARE AND DECIDE 
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc.  Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Inc.  
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your  Partial refund of the price of the  
DYNAMIC READING SPEED or you will receive a FULL  course if you fail.  
refund.  
Advanced Course  No known advanced course known at this time.  
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to retake the  Their graduates are required to pay  
course to extend their skills at no additional charge.  ·  a registration fee to retake the course.  
Our professional instructors are required to do extended  NO exams given.  
research after the initial training period for further insight,  
and take written exams.  
Our instructors are 'required to take reading proficiency  NO reading proficiency evaluations given.  
evaluations.  
20..50% discount on books.  NO discount on books.  
Tuition Assistance Payment PI an  Contractual obligation with finance Charge.  
NO FINANCE CHARGE!!  

ATTEND A FREE LESSON:  
FRIDAY FEB 10 •  12:00 2:00 4:00 6:00  ·  
All Meetings Held At The • CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION RM. 14 Downstairs  "Knowledge is a reflection of reading"  

Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing totally new concepts. 
1721 CROOKS RD., TROY, Ml 48084 (313) 366-1230 
Copyright 1977 Dynamic Reading Systems Inc . 

..... 
/_ ' •• 
--------------------~---~---------------.~~~--~------------------------------------.. 
Friday, February 10, 1978 he observer 

Demons prepare 
Goshen outshoots SMC .·


to invade ACC 
by Debbie Dahrling second half, a foul by Martha Kelly Nancy Nowalk led the Belles with Women's.Sports Editor sent the visitors to the line shooting 14. Kathleen Cuilen and Kelly also [continued from page 12] Although the Irish have not played two. Goshen's Carbaugh sank both socred in doulble figures with 11well after long lay-offs this year,double figures and two thers scored Goshen College overcame a first shots,to tie the score at 31. One and 10 respectively. 
they needed the break at this timenine. For the season, four Notre half deficit with strong defensive. minute later, another St. Mary's Three games in four days· seemto lick their wounds. 
Dame players are averaging in :rebounding and fast breaks to foul gave Goshen two shots and the to be taking their toll on the St.
double figures, and no one has down the St. Mary's Belles, 57-45, lead for good. From then on, the Mary's cagers. Last night's lossSunday's contest will begin at 1averaged over 30 minutes of play­last night i111. the Angela Athletic Belles could not generate the dropped the Belles to a 6c5 mark.
pm. The game will be televiseding time per game. Eleven players Fa,dlity. quickness or maintain the concen-Coach Carolyn Willig and herlocally by WNDU. It will be shown are averaging over ten minutes per A~leading by five at the half, tration to pull themselves back into ~quad see no end in sight to theon all stations that normally tele­game. 
St. Mary's was plagued with foul the game. grueling schedule as ·they facevise the Big 10 and Big 8 game of trouble and cold shooting in the Goshen's Fedderke finished asThe Irish have shot extremely 
Vincennes this afternoon at 4:30 well this season. Their .553 
the week. The rest of the country second stanza, giving Goshen the high scorer of the game with 19 p.m. and St. Joseph on sunday.
will see North Carolina and Provi­; edge. Seven minutes into the points, while St. Mary's forward Both games are at home.
percentage is among the top ten dence.
figures in the country. Bruce 
Flowers has shot 72 percent since 
he moved into the starting pivot 
Saturday Night We're Having A
THE QUICKIE RIDES AGAIN!
position five games ago. Bill 
Lambier has not exactly been in a 

MILLER HIGHLIFE PARTY 
slump. He has connected on 15 of 
his Jast 1& field goal attempts. since 
7:0U ~,.J 2.:30..
THIS FRIDAY NIGHT 
his injury in the UCLA game. 
Kelley Tripucka still leads the Irish 
i
in field goal percentage with 64.8. 
STOPS: FORUM I & II CINEMA, 
25' for. 12 oz. cup
Collectively, the freshmen are 182­324, a 56.2 percentage. The Irish have not played since 

$1 .00 for pitcher
last Saturday night when they defeated Davidson. The Wednes­
Miller representatives will be here 
day evening contest with Holy Cross was cancelled because of 
Featuring the finest in hickory 1146·s. Bend Ave.
inclement weather in the East. It 
smoked barbeque -cooked over 
289-0639
was fortunate that the game was 
an open pit with special sauce. 
cancelled because many qf the Irish were in bed with the flu. Six Irish missed some practice time during 




LEE'S 



Class~fieds 
this week, but all are expected to be ready for the Blue Demons. 
NOTICES 
Typing in home. Fast accurate reason­BLE. Phone 272-7688 anytime. 
Boarding for horses (no stasllions) includ­ing covered arena one mile from Notre Dame. Call Dr. Ford 287-5806 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at 1V2 monthly interest $2D-$150. 1 day wait. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement. 11:15-12:15 m·f. 
Accurate. fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-D746 Hours 8 AM to 6 PM. 
Typing, reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Dissertations, manuscripts. papers typ­ed. IBM selection II. Linda's Letters. 287-4971. 
Typing done. Reasonable rates. Call 0086 between #:oo-9:00 p.m. 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in Inc ana's May election should contact Mo at 1-1-4001 before spring break. 
NEED QtJALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Prnfesstonal Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics.. $.85 per page minimum. Resumes: $3.00 per page. Call 232-0898 "When you want the
BEST" . . . . 
. MARINJ;:S . . Management work/stupy ·program this summer at Quantico, Virginia. Free transportation, room and board, books and uniforms,. plus over $700. for six weeks. See the Marine Officer Selection team in La Fortune or the Library Feb. 7-10, 9a.m.-4p.m. 
FOR RENT 
Two furnished houses for rent next school year -9 month lease, 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom-near N.D. off-street parking. Call 234-2626. 
For rent next ·school year -two nice houses completely tarnished just a couple of ·blocks from -canipus, good neighbor-. hoods, one four bedroom and one six bedroom with fireplace. Call 277-3604. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: A pocket camera somewhere between North Dining Hall arid Admin­istration building on Saturday of snow­storm-Please call Ruth 1317. 
FOUND:i student hockey ticket. If you can identify it is yours again. Call 8655. 
LOST: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat. nite. Special Xmas present ­Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
FOUND: silver wire framed glasses outside ACC before Maryfand game. Call 1475. 
LOST: Round 14k gold medal. Sizeof a quarter has face of sun with a crack on medal. Also.a gold Italian horn. Lost Thurs.-.Jan 2!) morning between Fisher anddining hall. substantial reward. Call Mike-3010. · 
Restaurant & LDunge 
LOST: set of keys by ACC ice rink. Honda key. Please call 277-0222, 234-8279 or turn in to rink pro shop for thelma. 
LOST: one blue ski glove (left-hand) between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thursday Feb. 2, approx 4:45 p.m. If found please contact George at 1248. 
LOST: set of room keys between Sorin and South Dining Hall. If found, call 8500. 
LOST: green and gold ski cap in cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
FOUND: one camera. call 3601 to identify. 
WANTED 
Need ride for three to the New York City area for Spring break. Call Doug, John or Tom at 3414. 
Need 1 or 2 female Apt. mates. N.D. apts. Call 284-4953 or 288-8767. 
My Marquette grad. father needs 2 tix badly. Will Pay Much$$$. Please phone 1735. 
Need ride to So. Bend late night from 
N.D. Will pay. Call 233-7949. 
Two Marquette tickets. Will pay top dollar. Pahl 6755. 
2 Tickets for N.C. state Game. Call Rich or Joe 1173. 
Wanted: 1student or GA DePaul ticket. Call Guy 289-9351. 
2 TICKETS FOR MARQUETTE.. CALL RICH 1173. 
Need Ride to Illinois State Bloomington­Normal area this weekend. LISA 4-1-4849. 
Roommate wanted to share 3 bedroom house at Corby and Hill with two male students. Rent is $84 per month -Please call 288-2991. 
Need 2student or GA Marquette tickets. Call Claire 289-6533. 
Will pay Big $$$$ For ND1Marquettew tix. Call John 3829. 
Female wanted to share spacious 2 bedroom apt $75 per month after 5 p.m. call 289-8015. 
Need 4tix to Marquette game. Will pay top $$ Call 277-5137. 
I need 2 GA Marquette tickets real bad. George 1248. 
Wanted: 4Marquette tickets. Call Jim at 1419. 
Wanted: one Marquette student ticket. Call Mike at 1424. 
Wanted 4 DePaul tickets, call1153. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area atte1 Wednesday. Call Val1088. 
Need 4 G A tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
Need 2Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
Wanted: 2 'marquette tix will pay reasonable sum of$$$. Call 1612. 
Need 4GA DePaul tix. ANY PRICE! Call Bonnie 6239. 
I am in dire need of 2 Marquette B1Ball tix. will pay your price. call 1612. 
Need DePaul tix Call1043. 
Need up to 8GA tlx for Marquette game. Call 1m.,-------­Need 2or 4 Marquette tix. 8504 or 8502. 
Seniors looking for a little extra cash for this semester but only want to work one or two days per week! Pizza hut at Edison RD. IS LOOKING FOR PEOPLE LIKE YOUR. Call 233-3827. 
Need GA Marquette tickets. Will pay money. Chris 283-1023. 
1 pr. DePaul tix. Call Chip 1151. 
Desperate three girls need ride to detroit-Ann Arbor area. Feb 10 weekend. Call Maryellen 4-1-5332. 
Desperately need 4 GA Marquette tick­ets. Call1423. 
FOR SALE 
Nrw GE 19" color TV. won in raffle. $300.00 Call 287-1973. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC, TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
FOR SALE: BIG 981 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. 
Month-old SR,51-II Texas Instrument calculator. Regular $60, Sell $45. 8976 John. 
FOR SALE: eight "studio series "BASF blank reel to reel tapes. These profes­sional 1800 foot studio tapes are still in factory wrap. Only $40. Call Gene at 1694. 
PERSONALS 
"Uncle Bucks, Happy 21st love and kisses ­"Little Bucks and Nellie" 
For a mind blowing concept call Siobhan 54o6. 
We think it's really neatsy keen it's your B-day. Love and kisses, H&J 
Call Siobhan -cause a tramp like her ­baby she was born to run. 5404. Bruce S. 
Call Siobhan at 5406 and wish her a happy B-Day. 
Mark Flaherty-

Leaving your teens behind here's hop­ing you will find much happiness tomor­row-and in all the days that follow. Happy 20th, Mark... MB 
Libby, Is it really love this tim~? 4th Floor 
SEND YOUR SWEETIE A VALENTINE CLASSIFIED. COME UP TO THE 
OBSERVER  11-5  p.m.  TODAY  OR  
11-5p.m.  TOMORROW.  DEADLINE  
FRIDAY 5 p.m.  

Happy 20th birthday to Bill "Willie" Fessler and Larry Kupfer. 
What ever happened to romantic men? 
Happy Birthday Dad!!! Love and Kisses, barb and John. 
I've only got one BUNNY. Happy Birthday! Happy Valentines Day! 
Tom, Jim, Mike: To the three greatest roommates ever! Thanks for a fantastic birthday. Ramer 
TVT-Happy 22nd B'Day. Love, Julie, Leenie and Maureen 
Did you do IT yet? Well, apply for paid positions at SMC "21-Ciub" . Bar. Applications available at Student Affairs Office, LeMans Hall. Deadline Feb. 17, Friday -there's still time!­
'Cheer up my cherry blossom, we'll soon be together. remember, though, take aspirin, drink lots of fluids, sleep well and I sing the flu song -it's a chart-buster! 
Happy 25th Tom Bartos. You're not getting older just better and better... ASecret Admirer 
Wish Mary Mike Happy Birthday at 3848 From her friends, V&E 
David (265). That book won't fool anyone! EMB(444) 
Thanks to all who donated to the Bengal Missions at the successful, elusive Happy Hour. Paddlefish T-shirt orders are still being taken. Call Brian or Michael at 1054 or Tom at 1757. 
SMC Rome and London summer pro­grams. College gredits available. For info call Dr. Black 284-4948 at school or 272-3726 at home.$ 
Party with Dillon and Farley! Library Happy Hour, 3-6 Friday. Team chugging and "name that tune" contests. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Fri. Feb. 17. Call Kathy 1264. 
Let Ringo and Jester serenade your val­entine. $2.00. 8243, 8228. 
Bruce: Keep your beard. 
Blanco Don't shave your whiskers. 
Need 4GA tix for Marquette. SMC 4530. Betsy · 
Haircuts cheap styles, trims. SMC 4530 Betsy 
Send afriend a sweet for valentines day! Assorted candies for only $.75 and WE DELOVER.. Orders taken in Dining Halls today by Angel Flight. 
Take the quickee this friday night. 
Be a secret admirer -send Badin carnations. 
Don't forget that special person this V-Day, send Badin Carnations. 
Clancy, Happy Birthday! (We couldn't think of anything else to say.) · 
· Happy Birthday Bean! Lips and Trix 
To my friends in section 102, McCandless Hall-• 
Thank-you,· R.B.-12  
Happy Birthday Gehring.  on  Sunday to Donna -Carol Hocker  
Dr. K,  

Hope you're feeling better soon, Take care and rest plenty! · ."SS" 
Need 3 DePaul tickets -GA or student. · Call Katie, 6751. · 
"Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday, Dear Kathy, Happy Birthday to you." 
Love, 
Observer Mom 

Kath, 
. I wouldn't worry aboui turning 22. · Getting marriedwill keep you young for a while! (wink) · 
Happy Birthday_! · 

·Happy Birthday Kasthy! A~ymore ideas for birthd;iy gilts! .So. far we've got: wronkle cream, hair dye, denture cream, arthritis pain killer, Geritol, and a cane. How about a pair of matching rocking chairs? All the Best. . The Executive Women 

~----~-­
r 
Friday, February 10, 1978 

12 the observer 
I 
I 





r Meyer is an ideal student-athlete 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
Vince Lombard: called them, 
"guys with an equal dose of brawn 
and brains." At Notre Dame 
they're refered to as "scholar 
athletes." The guy whose perfor­
mance is always top-notch whether 
it comes in the classroom or in the 
athletic arena. 
Mike Meyer fits the description 
like a glove. A stand-out performer 
for the Irish track team in the p 
discus-throwing and shot-put e­
vents, Meyer's "track record': with 
the books is equally impressive. 
With three years logged under the 
Golden Dome he's compiled a 3.5 
grade point average and was 
seriously considered for a Rhodes 
Scholarship this year. 
"I applied for a Rhodes Scholar­ship in the state of Indiana early last fall," relates Meyer, "I knew that 25 people had applied and aonly 12 would be granted inter­views. I was interviewed and was one of two students from Indiana selected to compete on the national level in Chicago. I didn't win, but I realize the Rhodes Scholarship is very well contested so I was happy to do as well as I did." 
An honor graduate of Clay High School in South Bend, Indiana, Meyer's slats on the track and the basketball court were equally imp­ressive. A three-year letterman in both sports, Meyer served as co-captain of both squads while earning state honors in track and 

all-city all-conference recognition Mike Meyer's career at Notre Dame has been marked by both academic and athletic suc.::ess.
in basketball. 
"Mike was a credit to our high store Basketball" tournament. ball player to reach the elite group. school," points, out Clay Athletic "Mike's style of play typifies the Meyer's obvious talent led to Director Thomas Saunders. "He true spirit of 'Bookstore Basket-many offers from Ivy League was an excellent student and a ball'," explains tournament chair-schools including Cornell Univer­great team member. On the basket­man Tim "Bone"Bourret. "He sity who hoped to put his ability to ball court he established himself in plays tough, hard-nosed basketball good use. He turned them all the ond Northern Indiana Valley and he plays clean." down, opting for Notre Dame and Conference as a real scoring threat Meyer's performance in the 1976 its track program. He is quick to and a solid rebounder while on the spring tourney led to him being defend his reasoning. track team he was a standout in named "Mr. Bookstore," an honor "I was concerned with both the both the shot put and discus Bourret explains which is given to academics and the athletics a events." the tournament's best all-around particular school had to offer and, 
For the last two years, Meyer has player. That year Meyer led his in that light, Notre Dame looked displayed his ability with the team, the Nutmeggers, to the like a pretty good place to spend basketball to the Notre Dame tournament's "Final Four"-the four years. It's a great atmosphere community via the spring "Book-only team without a varsity basket-to be in." 
Irish await DePaul Demons 
by Tim Bourret Sports Writer 
The eleventh ranked DePaul Blue Demons, one of the most improved teams in the country, will challenge fourth ranked Notre Dame this Sunday afternoon at the 
Athletic and Convocation Center. Ray Meyer's club is 19-2 after last Tuesday's 83-58 victory over Duquesne. This is DePaul's finest record at this juncture in the seaon since they won the NIT tournament in 1945. They have a good chance of breaking the DePaul record for victories in a season (22) and of making only their third NCAA tournamnet appearance in the last 18 years. 
A major reason for DePaul's improvement has been the play of Dave Corzine, the Blue Demon All-American candidate at center. This agile 6' II" pivotman has averaged 20.3 points per game and 
11.4 rebounds this season. His biggest improvement has been in field goal percentage, where he boasts a 55 percent figure. He is one of the only players in the country that leads his team in rebounds and assists. 
"David is the key to our team,'' said Ray Meyer, the Blue Demons coach since 1942. "Corzine has become an outstanding offensive player because he has learned to use his strength under the boards. Last season he was shooting too many fallaway jumpers. This year he takes it right ot the hole and is in 
position  for  more  offensive  re­ 
bounds.  He  is  not  afraid  .to  
challenge anyone."  

Corzine has had some fine games with the Irish throughout his four-year career as starting center for DePaul. In 1974, the Blue Demons upset the Irish and Adrian Dantley as Corzine controlled the backboards, grabbing 18 rebounds in a 75-70 DePaul triumph. Last year he scored 16 points in a 76-68 Notre Dame victory over Chicago. 
The second leading scorer and rebounder for DePaul is Joe Pon­setto. Nicknamed ·'The God­father" for his forceful, aggressive style of play, Ponsetto lost 20 pounds since last season when he averaged 12.7 points per game. This year he has improved his scoring average to 14.4 while grabbing 7.0 rebounds per game. Two years ago, in the last meeting in the ACC between the two teams, Ponsetto led DePaul with 20 points and II rebounds. 
Curtis Watkins is the other starting forward. The 6'5" junior scored almost 13 points per game this season and leads the club in free throw percentage with a .870 average. He finished fourth in the country last season when he con­nected on 91 percent of his charity tosses. William Dise, a bearded 6'5" forward from Chicago, will also see a lot of action at forward. He has averaged 9.3 points per game in 1978, but scored a career high of 22 points in the win over Duquesne. . 
Gary Garland is the fourth double figure scorer in DePaul's high scoring (88.1 PPG) starting lineup. Garland, a music major who is the nephew of singer Dionne Warwick, has averaged 13.4 points per game. He also pulls down 5.2 
rebounds per game, a fine figure for a shooting guard. The East Orange, New Jersey native is probably the most improved player on the team. This year he has improved his shooting percentage by ten points and nearly doubled his scoring average. 
Randy Ramsey will be the other back court starter. He seldom shoots, rarely rebounds, but always quarterbacks the offense. He reminds logtime Irish basketball fans of Jackie Meehan. When fire power is needed from the reserves Clyde Bradshaw, a six-foot fresh­man will enter the backcourt. He has averaged 6.8 points per game and is shooting 51 percent in his rookie season. He played an outstanding game against national­ly-ranked Providence, a game won by the Blue Demons 78-68. 
DePaul has won six games in succession since a 80-74 setback at Marquette. The Blue Demon's other Josss was a 68-67 defeat at LSU. In both losses Corzine was not at his best. Corzine scored only 14 points in the Joss to the SEC's third place team, and connected for only 18 . against the defending national champions. Jerome Whitehead scored 25 and easily outrebounded Corzine at the game in Milwaukee. 
Notre Dame is 16-3 and has won its last nin~ games in a row. They have been successful because of their superior balance. In each of the last six games, at least four Notre Dame players have scored in double figures. Last Saturday against Davidson six Irish scored in 
[continued on page 11] 7!'· : But why forsake the roundball for 
,liit:, the 
shot pu~ and the discuss? ... · Meyer explams. 
i' "People were really surprised that I didn't go on to play coUege 
Jbaskf!th:lJI. I found that I really had experiences with track 
in high school and that's direction I wanted to go in. 'I the individual competition that 
~···c.-n•·~n·•'" offers. Unlike basketball :·Jhvh•~ .... you're competing against a 
team, I see track as an individual competing against him­self. For example, if I throw the shot further than I've ever thrown 
it before, yet place 'last  in  that  
event,  I  can  still  look  on  that  
performance  as  a  personal  vict­ 

ory." Whatever ·Meyer's reasons, no one is more pleased with his decision to compete for Notre Dame than Irish track coach, Joe Piane. "Mike's a perfect team mem­ber,'' Piane points our. "He's an excellent team leader and he does a great job of motivating our younger weight men. He's an extremely sensitive and level-headed ath­lete." 
Based on the intrasquad meet held before Christmas, both Piane and his assistant, Ed Kelly, are confident 
that the Irish can improve on last year's 2-2 indoor dual-meet record. 
"We believe our strong point this season wiii be in the mid-distance and distance events,'' reveals. Piane. "We'll be looking to sopho­more Jay Miranda who has run the 800 M in 1:48.7, as well as sopho­
more Peter Burger and freshman Chuck Aragon for strength in these events. 
In the two-mile event, the Irish will rely on juniors Dennis Vander-Kraats and Steve Welch while 
boasting three fine hurdlers in 
seniors Arnie Gough, Chuck Wills, 
and freshman Ralph Boyd. Sopho~ 
1J10re pole vaulter Perry Stow who ·holds the Notre Dame school record in this event at 16 feet, will be a solid entry in that contest, while Meyer and junior Tom Ferenc will handle the shot put chores. 
The team's attitude, Meyer points out, is excellent. Squad morale is something he is responsible for as he and junior runner Dennis Van­dekraats serve as the team's co­captains. Meyer sees his role in that capacity as "an arbitrator" of sorts. "Track,'' he explains, "is somewhat of a 'fractured sport' in that it is a team of individuals who direct their efforts towards excel­lence in one particular event. 
"Obviously, when you are dealing with a large group of people you're going to encounter disagreements. I try to help solve these problems by bringing them to the attention of the coaches. Of course, my job is made easier by the fact that both coaches are willing to listen to any suggestions Dennis or I may make." 
With a double major in English and Philosophy. Meyer is contem­plating graduate work in Philo­sophy, Meyer is contemplating graduate work in Philosophy, per­haps at Berkeley or the University of Chicago. 
"Getting my PhD,'' he explains, ''will prepare me for a career in education, politics, the media or perhaps the legal profession. These are all areas which hold my interest." 
With a lar.ge range of interests and an overdose of "brawn and brains" it isn't hard to guess that success looms large in Mike Meyer's future. 

*Observer 



··Sports~. 
~-------------------------------------------------~~
College Cage 
Hoosiers beat Purdue 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. [AP] • Wayne Radford scored 18 points Thursday night, including two free throws with six seconds remaining, as Indiana edged Purdue 65-64 in a Big Ten basketball game. The Joss dropped the Boilermakers out a tie with Michigan State for first place in the conference, which defeated Iowa later Thursday evening. 
Indiana's victory left both teams at 13-7 for the season. Purdue fell to 8-3 in the conference, while Indiana raised its Big Ten mark to 5-6. 

Hogs edge Aggies 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas [AP]-Senior guard Ron Brewer sank two free throws with 12 seconds remaining and the second-ranked Arkansas Razorbacks survived a second-half Texas A&M comeback Thursday night to nick the Aggies 80-79 in a Southwest Conference basketball game. 
Brewer hit eight of his first 10 field goals as Arkansas jumped to a 49-36 halftime lead, thanks to a sizzling 70 percent from the floor. 

Wolverines coast 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. [AP] • Forwards Mike McGee and Alan Hardy teamed to score 51 points Thursday night and helped give oach Johnny Orr his tOOth Big 10 basketball victory as Michigan defeated Ohio state 85-74. 

ND Women Romp 
The Notre Dame Women's basketball team upped their season's record to 7-1 last evening with a 74-49 romp over Manchester College. 
Leading the way for the Irish was Molly Cashman who scored 21 points. Also aiding the Notre Dame effort were Marge Meagher, with 17 points; and Jane Politiski, who had 10 markers. Politiski also grabbed 11 rebounds. . 
The next game for the Irish women is Saturday at 3:30p.m. m the ACC. Their opponenet ~11 be Northern lllinois University. 





