------------------_.--------------------------~-----­

Legal aspects considered 
O'Neil speaks on 'discipline' 
by Pat Mangan 
Robert M. O'Neil, vice-president of Indiana University, lectured on 

! the legal aspects of "Student Discipline" yesterday mornj.ng to an audience of a little more than 100 educators and administrators in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation's auditorium. 
O'Neil was a guest lecturer for the First Annual Conference on Legal Problems in Independent Higher Education sponsored by the Center for Constitutional Studies. 
O'Neil focused on two general areas of litigation; the recognition of students as "consumers," and the defining of procedures appro­priate for academic dismissal. 
Addressing the issue of students as "consumers," O'Neil cited what he claimed to be the "two most celebrated current cases," the University of Bridgeport case and the Vanderbilt University case. 
O'Neil explained that in the case of Bridgeport, a recent claimed the University provided poor instruc­tion, and so ill equipped her with employable skills that the Univer­sity had failed to meet its contrac­tual obligations. 
According to O'Neil the trial judge concluded that nothing more was involved than a difference of opinion about the curriculum. 
However, in Vanderbilt's case, O'Neil said that a group of dis­gruntled students brought a suit similar to the Bridgeport complaint and were awarded $30,000. 
The students based their claim for damages on "the unstructured character of the program, the diversity of a sometimes conten­tious faculty, and the confusing or even counterproductive changes made in the curriculum." 
O'Neil explained that the _court, while declining to rule that the content of the program was beyond modification, did find that the University had inadequately funded the program, and had in 

!. general failed to avert the "total 
( collapse" of the curriculum. However, he also cited a teneral statement of the Federal Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, which warned that "while students may
·­
very well be for many purposes 'consulllers,' the full panoply of rights and remedies given the retail buyer are simply not well suited to higher education." • 

Leaving the "consumer" aspect, O'Neil turned to what he called the complex subject of student aca­demic status. He prefaced this section of his talk by stating, "If the student of the 1960's went to court over disciplinary matters, the student :>f the 1970's has concen­
r-­
trated on academic status."

• 
O'Neil cited two major cases to 
make his point; the Horowitz case, 
which reached the U.S. Supreme 
Court, and a case involving a 
Hamline University law student 
whose case_reached the Minnesota 
Supreme Court. 
In the Horowitz case, O'Neil 
explained that a medical student at 
the University of Missouri was 
warned of unsatisfactory progress 
toward her degree. Her case was 
reviewed by the University officials 
and she was not allowed to con­
tinue. 
The court of appeals uphed the 
student's claim that she had been 
denied due process because she 
had not been afforded the sort of 
hearing which would be required in 
a disciplinary case. 
The U.S. Supreme Court, how­
ever, reversed the decision, declar­
ing that the dimensions of due 
process are markedly different for 
academic and disciplinary proce­
dures. 
The Court stated, "Academic 
evaluations of a student, in contrast 
to disciplinary determinations, 
bear little resemblance to the 
judicial and administrative fact­
finding proceedings to which we 
have traditionally attached a full­
hearing requirement." 
Relating the case which reached 
the Minnesota SuJ.)reme Court, 
O'Neil said that the Hamline law 
student persuaded the court that 
even a private institution could not 
use arbitrary grading standards or 
procedures. 
In sending the case back for trial, 
the Minnesota court suggesed that 
the state common law imposed on 
private institutions' obligations are 
comparable to those which the due 
process clause guarantees in the 
public sector. 
Private Schools Vulnerable 
O'Neil pointed out that while 15 years ago private institutions could view with apathy the rapid develop­ment in due process and First Amendment student rights, recent decisions have made private insti­tutions "increasingly vulnerable." 
He stated ''Actions of the private college administrator which were largely beyond the reach of the courts in the 1960's and even into the 1970's are no longer so clearly exempt." 
O'Neil also said that ''progressive application" of federal civil rights legislation and contract law to student -complaints has not only brought parallel regulation to the independent sector, but has also privided comparable bases for liti­gation of individual claims as well . 
Speculating as to the possible future course of law, O'Neil said that the increasing resort to new claims--especially breach of con· tract--has eroded the once clear difference between the legal ac­countability of public and indepen­dent institutions of higher learning. He also commented, "It seems inevitable to me that ingenious or desperate students and their equally ingenious or perhaps equally desperate lawyers will press the law into new areas of the campus and new dimensions of 
academic life.'' 
According to O'Neil, what we are likely to see is an "Increasingly resourceful adaptation and evolu­tion of legal theories" toward the protection of student interests. 
lawsu1ts Dwindle 

Although he emphasized that independent institutions are now vulnerable, he also said that the 
continued on page 10 


Tht: Mattoon Club in Grace Hall leaves on their first annual road trip. looks like they could use the break! [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
Pope praises Cardinals 

for displaying courage 

VATICAN CITY [AP-Pope John 

Paul II yesterday praised the 
cardinals of the Roman Catholic 
Church for displaying "great cour­
age" in electing the first non-
Italian pope in four centuries. 
Speaking in Italian, the pope 

reminded the princes of the church 
that "some even now are not 
spared the experience of prisons, 
suffering and humiliation for 
Christ.'' 
It was assumed that because of 

his long experience with Nazism 
and communism in Poland, the 
pope was referring to prisoners 
under communist regimes. But he 
could also have been speaking of 
prisoners in Latin America and 
nations of both the right and the 
left that have imprisoned members 
of the church. 
The Vatica~. mean":hi~e, 

announced that John Paul s mau­
gural Mass will be held outdoors at 
10 A.M.S A.M. EDT Sunde&v on the 
broad marble steps of St. Peter's 
Basilica. 
The investitures of his two predecessors, Paul and John Paul I, broke with tradition by being held outside. And like John Paul I, _the new pontiff has also ordered a 
simplified installment ceremony. 
John Paul will don the white wool stole that signifies his dual role as Bishop of Rome and patriarch of the Western church, and shun the crowning as temporal ruler of the 
Vatican State 'with the golden, 
beehive-shaped tiara. 
The former Cardinal Karl 

Wojtyla met with the cardinals in 
the frescoed Consistory Hall of the 
Apostolic Palace. The group 
included the 110 cardinals who took 
part in the secret conclave and 10 
others over age 80 who were barred 
from voting by Paul's revision of 
papal electoral rules. 
John Paul also suggested that his election was made possible by his predecessor Paul VI, who chose new cardinals for the Roman Catholic Church ''from the extreme ends of the earth." 
Paul started to expand the College of Cardinals in 1963 from around 80 men -primarily Euro­poeans-:to the more than 100 that elected him head of the 700 million member church on Monday. 
The Italian press carried reports yesterday that the three days of ballottin~ had been "dramatic'~" l "tough,· strained by division among the Italian cardinal-electors and a move from the German cardinals to sponsor Wojtyla. 
Rome's La Repubblica said Wojtyla drew support from the Third World cardinals, particularly the South Ameficans, as well as the French and other western Euro­peans: Turin's La Stampa said, "There are those who say that some foreign cardinals told the ltalians, 'With your division, you 
don't deserve the papacy."' 
In Poland, government officials said the pope "{Ould be welcome to visit his homeland. Ten years ago, Paul VI was barred from entry. 
Officials of the Polish church said they hoped John Paul would return for the 900th anniversary next May 8 of the death of St. Stanislaw, Poland's patron saint, or for the 600th anniversary in 1982 of the installation of the picture of the Black Madonna at Czestochowa, central Europe's most famed shrine. 


This is the last issue before break 

~-­
Thursday, Ckiober19, 1978
the observer 

~News Briefs--------~ 
1==============:=:::::::::::=::::::::::~===== World 
Students sentenced.for sit in 
NETHERLANDS, A Dutch court has sentenced nine Iranian students in absentia to six months in jail for a six hour sit in at the Iranian Embassy Aug. 23. The students attend universities in West Germany and Sweden and were protesting the ru~e ,?~ Shah Mohammed Reza Phlavi. They spend several weeks m Jatl after 
. their occupation of the embassy and were the expelled from the country. They will have to serve their sentences if they return to the Nether lands. 
~=======~=====:::::=================== National 
Christmas stamps unveiled 
WASIDNGTON, The U.S. Postal Service showed off the 1978 Christmas stamps yesterday a classic madonna and child .fo~ one and a contemporary child on a hobby horse for the other. Thts ts the ninth year that the service has offere~ its custome~s .two .different designs on separate sheets. The pubhc generally dtstmguashes the recent two designs as religious and non-religious. But the postal serivce doesn't go along with that defimtion. It calls one a reproduction of a masterpiece and the other a contemporary design. This year the masterpiece is the National Gallery of Art's terra cotta sculpture of madonna and chiW by Andrea. del!a R~bbia, a 15th century Italian artist. The contemporary destgn ts a httle boy on a hobby horse with a Christmas tree in the b .. ckground. 

SUsan Ford engaged 
Rancho Mirage, CAIFORNIA-Susan Ford, .daughter of former President Gerald Ford, will marry Secret Servtce agent Charles F. Vance in June family spokeswoman Gloria Hill said yesterday. Miss Ford, 21 .' works as a freelance photo~rapher and lives in a condominuim near her parentshere, about 100 miles east of Los Angeles. In Washington, Secret Service s~okesman T?m Farrell said Vance, 37, has been with the agency smce 1965 and recently 

· · was assigned to the unit protecting the Ford family. 
I========================:::: Local 
Students paid to desegregate 
Hammond, IN.-A school official has proposed paying students $500 ayear to attend schools to help achieve racial balance. School ~oard president Richard Schreiber says the program wou~d ~rovtd~ a means to voluntary integration of the 16,800 student dtstrtct, whtch faces a desegregation suit filed by the NAACP. Schreiver said Tuesday his idea would apply from kindergarten through high school. He sid he money" would be held in trust for each student, and to collect, the student would have graduate and promise to use the money to pay college expenses or buy a house. 

Police and .firemen picket 
Gary, Ind.· Disgruntled police and fire.men ~n Gary Indiana's t~ird largest city, plan to set up information packets to!llorrow mght outside a high school where Mayor Richard Hatch.er ts expect~d to tick off his campaign for a fourth term. Walter Mttchell, prestdent of the United Police and Firemen Association, said the officers want an 8.1 percent raise. Police and firemen n<;»w earn a b~se pay of $12,950 a year. The dinner at Gary West Htgh School ~til fe~ture Vernon Jordan of the National Urban League; Coretta Kmg, wtdow of the slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King; U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young; Sen, Birch Bayh, D..Jnd. and civil rights leader Jesse Jackson. 

Weather 
Partly cloudy and cooler today. High in the. upper 50s. Cle~r a~d cool at night. Low around 40. Sunny and mlld tomorrow. Htgh m the low 60s. 

~On Campus Today _ __.... 
.. 

4 pm seminar, "solution of the time dependent on sager problem," dr. joan noolandi, conf. theatre--radiation lab. 
8pm poetry reading, john montague, irish poet, spon­sored by the student union cultural arts commission and the notre dame english department, rare book room in the library 
midnight wsnd album hour, "m.i.u." by the beach boys, am 640 

Carter steps into peace talks 
W ASHINGTON(AP) -President State Department press otlicer who Carter stepped personally into the has been acting as official spokes­Middle East peace talks yesterday, man for all three countries during meeting separately at the White the talks that began here last House with the heads of the Israeli Thrusday. and Egyptian delegations. Sherman said that progress had 
Administration officicials denied continued, and that the atmosphere that Carter intervened in an effort of the talks was "very good." As to overcome an impasse in the has been the practice in recent talks, although the pattern of days, Sherman refused to discuss separate meetings was the same ~s the details of the negotiations the president used at Camp Davtd aimed at parlaying an Israeli­to try to bridge impasses there. Egyptian peace treaty from the 
"There is no particular hurdle. Mideast accords produced by the The president will review the status Camp David summit. of the talks, the progress that has Speaking privately, however, ad­ben made, and the differences that ministration sources said that they remain," said George Sherman, a could not make any predictions 
about when the current round of 
Irish studies conference to take place Saturday 
The Midwest Conference on Irish Stu\.iles will take pla(;e on Satu,.day. Oct. 21 at Saint Mary's. $essions in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall will be sponsored by the American Committee for Irish Stu­dies and the Department of His­tory, Saint Mary's College. 
The morning session, "Moderni­zation oflreland," begins at 9 a.m. and will be chaired by Alan Ward, College of William and Mary. Participants and their topics are· Lawrence McBride, University of Chicago, "Bureacracy in Ireland"; Raymond James Raymond, Uni­versity of Kansas, "Ireland's Un-d derdeveloped Economy: 1800­1850, a Revisionist View"; James Donnelly, Univerisity of Wisconsin, "The Political Culture of the 
United Irishman." 
-At 11:30 a.m. "The Irish Literary Renaissance" session will be chaired by Anthony Bradley, Uni­versity of Vermont. Participants and their topics are Edward O'Shea, Loyola University, Chi­cago, "The Cuala Press: Perpetu­ating the Renaissance"; Mary Helen Thuente, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne, "Irish Folklore and the Literary Renaissance"; Frank Kinahan, University of Chicago, '!Dawn . Hour: Image Complexes in 'The • 
Celtic Twilight.''' At 1 p m there will be a luncheon in the Coll~ge Dining Hall. Emmet, 
-Larkin, University of Chicago, will be master of ceremonies and the speaker will be John Montague, 
University Colle2e. Cork, Ireland. The aftem<X..a session, ''The Irish in America," begins at 3 p.m. and will be chaired by Maureen Mu h , Hofstra University, with. Johiot? Norstedt, Virginina Poly­
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher Asst. Night Editor: Kathie Tighe Layout Staff: Bea Witzleben Editorial Layout: Tony Pace Features Layout: Karen Caruso, Cate Magennis Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Betsy Masana, Tom {why haven't you changed your name yet?) Pipp E.M.T.'s: Mary McCauley, Lisa DiValerio Day Editor: Keith Melaragno Coppy Reeders: Mike Ridenour, Tim joyce {hey, u guyes are grate?) Ad Layout: Matt DeSalvo, Beautiful Barb Photographer: Mark Ricca 
The Observer is publ1shed Monday through Fnday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacatiOn periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser· ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights ~re reserved 

technic Institute and State Univer­sity, commentator. Panelists and their topics are Barbara Schiff, "Mister Dooley Lives"; Marjorie Sallows, Cape Cod Community College, ''Assimilation and Trans­formation in Recent Irish Amer­ica"; Robert Rhodes, State Univer­sity of New York, Cortland, "F. Scott Fitzgerald: All My Fathers." For further information call Pro­
fessor  Anthony  R.  Black,  Saint  
Mary's  College  at  284-4948  or  
272-3726.  

Neighborhoods for theme CCUM conference 
American neighborhoods will pro­vide the theme for the annual conference of the Catholic Com­mittee on Urban Ministry (CCUM), to be held at Notre Dame Sunday through Wed.tesday. 
The economic crisis caused by a steel company's withdrawal from youngstown, Ohio, and the appro­val last June of a property-tax limitation amendment, Proposition 13, by California voters provoked the theme, "Neighborhood: Viewed Through National Tele­
scope and Local Microscope." F========~==:=~ 
Major sessions will include a national view of the state of 
American neighborhoods by Arthurf· 
J. N~parsteck, .directo~ of the Washmgton .Publ~c Affatrs Center for the Umverstty of Southern 
Cal~ornia and ;a".membe£ .of the' National Commasston on Netghbor­hoods. 
More than 600 people. are ex­pected to attend the meeting a~ the ACC. The ~otestan.t Commtttee o~ Urban Mtntstry will sponso~ a samultaneous conference, shanng some sessions with CCUM and talks would end. These sources had voiced optimism Monday abou the chances for wrapping up the talks. 
Sherman said that Egypt's acting foreign minister, Bourtos Ghali, haa a three-hour dinner Monday night with Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan. The two countries' defense ministers, Kamal Hassan Ali of Egypt-and Ezer Weizman of Israe, also met briefly in the evening. 
But, Sherman said, those were the last high-level meetings be­tween the two delegations. The meetings at Blair House yesterday morning were between the Americans and Egyptians and the Americans and Israelis. 
At Camp Daivd, there was a similar pattern. After initially brings the two sides together, Carter and the American delega­tion found that the best way To solve probelms was to deal with each country separately, acting as an intermediary. 
Sherman refused to discuss the nature of the issues that remain unresolved, but he hinted at what they might be when he refused to say whether progress has been made on what he has called the "side talks" at Blair House. The so-called "side talks" involve the sensitive and intractable issues of the West Bank, including Jerusalem, the Gaza Strip and the Palestinians who live there. American officias have always re­garded these issues as more diffi­cult to solve than the issues strictly between Israel and Egypt, most of 
which  were  resolved  at  Camp  
David.  
Since  Camp  David,  Egyptian  
leaders  have  indicated  that  they  

might insist on some progress on the West Bank and Gaza issues before they sigri the treaty with Israe. 
The two aspects of the Mideast problem were handled in separate frameworks at Camp Daivd. President Carter's position has been that while the two parts are not legally linked, a connection exists, if only in the minds of the Camp David participants. 

runnin~ others concurrently. l:::=======::::!::====::tl 
JAM & NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY 

Saturday, November 11, 8 PM 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. Tickets: $8.50 & $7.50 Tickets available at A.C.C. Box Office, Robertson·s in South Bend & Etl<hart, St. Joseph Bank, Main Office & Branches, 1st Bar.k, Main office only. The Elkhart Truth. and the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Suspended Chord in Elkhart, South Bend Records in Ft. Wayne, The Record Co. in Plymouth, Pants Port in Mich.gan City, Fanta-C Records in Benton Harbor, The Record Joint in Niles, Boogie Records and Just for the Record in Mishawaka, and River City Records on Western Avenue and 31 North in South Bend. 
H . St I" 
·ra 
8 If YIng f 
for men and 
women who like tolook 277-073 
their best... 

Yz mile north of campus, (U.S. 3 
N) Across from Randall's Inn 




THe first and second floors of the Century Center .. 
..Library will be open Monday . • 
. . Spruce Up Before 
The Wolverines Classic Jazz

through Saturday from 8 to 5 p.m. Orchestra will be the star attraction
on Monday through Saturday and of a "1920's Nightclub" evening at
from 1-10 p.m. on Sundays. 9 p.m., Friday in Century Center 

October Break
Center for Convention Hall. The musicians recreate music 
. 
from the "hot period"' in jazz. 

. Visit
Pastoral Learning .. 
From the driving Cab Calloway .
.
vocal in "Some of These Days" to
. offers 
the whining trumpet in Fietcher 



The Windjammer
training program Henderson's ''Roughhouse Blues", it's the Jazz Age of the 
A training program on liturgy and 1920's and early 1930's. 
sacraments will be ofered by the .
. 

Notre Dame Center for Pastoral .
.. Creative Hair design for the sexes .
.

Liturgy Oct. 29 through Nov. 1. •
. 
.
. .
"Update in Liturgy and Sacra­.

. .•
ments' • is intended for members of 

. 1637 Lincoln Way W. 232-662 . •
diocesan liturgy commissions, li­

ERRATUM • 
•
.
turgy planning teams and directors 
. 
of religious education. 

Registration for the program, The Foreign Student's Advisor is which will be held at Fatima an appointed position not an elec­.• Appt. Only Retreat House on the Notre Dame ted position as reported in an •• campus, is limited to 40 persons. article on the International Stu­... 
.

To enroll, contact the Notre Dame dents Organization which appeared Center for Pastoral Liturgy. in yesterday's Observer .. . .• 
''Speaking of Sports''.•• 

WSND to offer b-ball tickets 
by Frank LaGrotta ID npmber to: "Speaking of He said that a meeting with student representatives was held
Sports-Basketball Bonanza," 
last spring and they decided that
WSND Radio Sports Department, As a result of questions raised by O'Shaughnessy Hall. WSND will the best alternative was to divide 
the freshmen allocation into twocallers on last Sunday's edition of 
get tickets from two staff members 
eight-game packages.
"Speaking of Sports," WSND who will be doing the play-by-play The first winners in WSND'sRadio's sports department will be broadcast for that game. 
"Basketball Bonanza" will be an­giving away two tickets to each 
"We had a staff meeting and 
nounced on the November 4 broad­
Notre Dame home basketball 
everyone agreed that they'd like to 
cast of "Speaking of Sports."
game. 
donate their tickets when they do 
''Students can enter as manyNotre Dame/Saint Mary's stu­
play-by-play," Stauder said. 
times as they like," Stauderdents who did not have a chance to 
Notre Dame Ticket Manager, 
pointed out, "but once a student ispurchase student tickets will be 
Mike Busick, called the ticket 
drawn, he is not eligible to wineligible to win. Freshmen with the giveaway '·a great idea.'' 
again."
eight-game packages will be able to "I think it's fine that twowin tickets for a game not included students who did not purchasein their package. 
tickets, for whatever reason, will be''What we will do is draw two able to see a home basketball names every Sunday on 'Speaking game," Busick said.
of Sports' for each home game He pointed out that this would
scheduled for the upcoming also keep students doing
week," explained Paul Stauder, play-by-play broadcasts from sell­sports director as WSND. "We'll ing their student ticket or giving it check the winners names against a to someone who is not a student.
list of students who did buy tickets "This is only the second time inand if they did not buy tickets, we'll the ten-year history of the ACC thatgive them a ticket for that particu­
students completely exhaustedlar game." 
their supply of 5,500 tickets," Stauder said students wishing to Busick pointed out.-r'81 percent of 
enter the contest should send a the incoming freshman class pur­postcard with his or her name, chased tickets and we just didn't address, phone number, class and have that many seats allocated." 
Most campus services to continue during break 
The Rockne Memorial will beby Ruth Kolcun open Monday through Friday from 8 to 10 p.m. and Saturday through 
Even though the majority of the 
Sunday from 10 to 5:30p.m. THe student body will leave during The pool hours are 12:30 to 5:30 semester break, most campus p.m. and 7-10 p.m. on Monday operations will go on as usual. . through Friday. On Saturday and For those remaining students, Sunday the hours are from 12:30 to there will be meals and masses, 5:30 p.m. On October 28, the time for browsing through the Rockne Memorial will close for the. bookstore and meditating in the day at 12:30 p.m. library 
The North and South dining halls SMC operateswill be closed after dinner on Friday, Oct. 20 until lunch on Sat., 
on 
Oct. 28, according to Bill Robinson, head of food service. limited schedule 
The cafeteria (Oak Room) will be open for the usual hours. f Saint Mary's will operate on a ~an eat there from 7:20 a.m. to 7 limited basis for semester break. 
p.m. on Monday though Saturdy Meals at the dining hall will be 
Saturday and from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. downstairs in the snack bar. Lunch on Sunday. They Huddle will be will be served from 11:45 to 2:39 open Monday to Friday from 8 to 4 and dinner from 5 to 5:45. 
p.m. and Sunday from noon to Meals are on a "pay as you go 
12:30 a.m. according to the mana­'basis.'' Boad--.•40aals will begin ger. the following Sunday at dinner. 
"Residence dorms wil1 be lock­The library's hours during break ed. Those students occupying will be drom 8:30a.m. to 4:30p.m. dorms during break will be issued Monday through Fridy·and from 1 keys. Academic buildings will be to 11 p.m. on Sunday oct. 29. The op.:.::n. Deans, faculty, and staff will library will be closed the first be wvrking," said Arthur Pears, weekend of break. Director of security. While the Bookstore will be open 
Stu(lents should follow the regu­from 8:30a.m. to 4:30a.m. during lar Mass schedule in Sacred Heart the week and 9 a.m. to noon on · Church with the exception of the Saturday, the Angela Athletic 
5:15 p.m. mass, which will not be Facility and Health Services will be bel. There will be a 5:30p.m. mass close during break. downstairs in the crypt. According to the parish secretary. Father Toohey will celebrate the 12:15 
Jazz Orchestra
Sunday mass as usual. 
The bookstore will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through to play at Saturday. 

Thursday, October 19, 1978 the observer 
3 

Kegger Special 
at 

WAYNE'S OAK DAIRY PARTY STOR WITH EACH KEG PURCHASED Keg Party ~ackage WE WILL SUPPLY AT 
i!~ open 9 to midnight mon-sat 
call 684-4950

11 •open 12 to midnight sunday 
STATELINE ROAD iN NILES ONE BLOCK EAST OF US 31 

RememB€~ 
SponsoR€b ha1,lowe€Tl pauty BY 01llon hall tU€S., Oct. 31 at LEE'S $1.25 PltCh€RS or ffiJll€R PRJC€ qo€s bown as n1qht qo€s_ on 
··············································································~·····-~. 
El Paso Student Meeting 
Students from El Paso area are invited 
to meet with John Obermiller, 
Pres. of N.D. Club of El Paso at 7:00pm 
in the Theatre of Lafortune Student Center 

on Thurs. Oct. 19th The Alumni Representative will be available to answer questions about the local chapter 
~and also Discuss the possible formation 
of a campus student club for El Paso 

pre-break 


niles mich. statelane line rd. 
,.. 
~·r 
NO CHARGE 
50 cups 
271bs of ice 
tapper rental tub rental 

-···························································································&~······ 



------------------------------~-----------------------­
t 
Thursday, October 19, 1978 
Count Dracula's twin brother tries to make this unsuspecting NO student his next victim [photo by Mark Ricca] 




Rodents plague Cleveland 
I 
CLEVELAND [AP]· This city in The rodents seem to have built relations man in the world -Mickey 
recent months has seen its teachers up a resistance to the anti-coa­Mouse. So, a lot of people tolerate strike, its credit rating plummet. gulant baits which are supposed to having mice around and don't try to and its mayor survive a recall make them bleed to death inter­kill them and they multiply. attempt, then be hospitalized with nally, he said. And DDT, the most "People think a mouse is cute. A 
an ulcer. Now it has a new problem effective mouse poison, has been mouse is, but many are not." -mice. outlawed. 
The rodents have been reported Gadeon and city Environmental eating erasers off pencils on the Health Commissioner Boyd T. 17th floor of one downtown build­Marsh say Cleveland is not alone. ing, gnawing at leftover doughnut Gedeon said he has read of mouse crumbs at another and taking over problems in New York, Seattle and restaurants when the lights go out Minneapolis-St. Paul. at night. Several downtown Cleveland Pianists 
According to one account, a office building and restaurant chubby brown mouse was recently managers declined to confirm that 
to perform
seen staggering across a barroom they have mice. But one merchant floor. explains that easily: "So who wants 
John H. Gedeon Jr., president of to admit he has a mouse problem?" The magical artistry of duo­General Pest Control Co. and past Traps are one answer, and pianists Anthony and Josephpresident of the Cleveland Pest Gedeon said one Cleveland firm is Paratore will be heard at the Control Operators Association, de­working around-the-dock making opening concert of the South Bend clined to estimate the city's mouse them. Symphony Orchestra, Saturday at 8 population, but said it started to Gedeon said another problem is p.m. in the Morris Civic Audi­boom about four years ago. that: "Mict:ha.re the greatest public torium. 
Thursday, ~ober19, 1978 
the observer 

North Dakotans to vote on health measure 
BISMARK, N.D. [AP] • An initiative on North Dakota's Nov. 7 
• ballot would put state controls on how much doctors could charge their patients, and the measure's architect says it is the beginning of a nationwide revolt against health care costs. "Either way, win or lose, it's just a matter of itme before every state will have similar state regula­tions," says North Dakota Insur­ance Commissioner Byron Knut­son. The state's medical profession feels otherwise. With cries of "socialized medicine," it has bank­rolled an intensive campaign· against the measure, which would put controls on all health care costs--in hospitals, nursing homes, pharmacies and doctors' offices. 
"Vote No on Anti-Health Care Measure 4," say biiJboards that greet drivers on the state's road­ways. Similar messages appear in 
Glee Club to present fall concert 
by LesUe Brinkley 

The Notre Dame Glee Club will present their annual fall concert on Wednesday, Nov. 1 at 8:14p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission will be free. 
This year's concert will feature a mixture of religious, classical and humorous musical selections, in­cluding several madrigals, a barber shop quartet, and a segment with songs from Camelot. 
Last summer, 52 members of the Glee Club toured Europe and performed 12 concerts in Italy, Germany, France, England, Ire­land. 
Glee Club Publicity Manager, Mike Hogan, described the trip as "just super. Musically, it went very well, better than we expec­ted." The 24-day tour cost a total of $42,000 which was raised by the Glee Club through activities and record sales. 
The group will go on tour again on Nov. 17 and 18, giving perfor­mances in Oak Park, Illinois and Waterloo, Iowa. Thanksgiving vacation plans include concert stops in Ohio, Michigan, and Canada. 
THe Glee Club will present their Chirstmas concert on Dec. 13, in addition to caroJiing at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Tom Conlin is president of this year's 65 member, all-male Glee Club. 
SMC Counseling Center. announces 
recruiting 

The Counseling and Career Development Center at Saint Mary's has announced upcoming on-campus recruiting schedules. On Oct. 30, Capital University Law School will interview law school applicants from all majors. 
Price Waterhouse will be inter­viewing for Assistant Accountant from students with B.A. and Busi­ness requirements on Oct. 31. 
On Nov. 1 those with B.S. and Nursing requirements and inter­ested in a Registered Nurse posi­tion can be interviewed by the Veterans Administration Hospital Civil Service Opportunities. Also on Nov. 1 those with majors except Nursing can see about officer opportunities in the U.S. Marines. 
Visiting on Nov. 2 will be Xerox Corporation and students from all majors cin see about the possibility of Sales Representative of that firm. Volunteers in Diocesan Action will interview all majors for teachers and parish social workers on Nov. 2. 
• 
daily and weekly newspapers and on television. 
In one TV ad, public relations consultant robert Schuller--who is working full-time for the medical profession's Citizens Health Care Committee--asks viewers ·if they'd prefer doctors of "bureaucrats" administering the state's health program. A Fargo ad agency has also been contracted to help defeat the "anti-health care" measure. 
Actually the initiative is on the ballot as "Measure 4, health care,'' and Knutson says the opposition has conducted "one of the most deceitful campaigns" in state history. 
Knutson, a 48-year-old Democrat who is a maverick in his own party, said the measure resulted from numerous complaints about inade­quate health insurance. He said he has yet to spend a penny on promoting the measure and pre­dicted the opposition will spend nearly $400,000. 
Nineteen sponsors, including Knutson, began a blitzkrieg peti­tion campaign to have tested the measure in the general election. In less than three weeks before the Aug. 9 deadline, they gathered 13,300 valid signatures--3300 more than required. 
Knutson predicts an over­whelming victory, but most obser­vers expect a close vote. If the 

measure passes, the medical pro­administer it. "I waste most of my fession says it will tate it to court. time on this trivial legislation, only 
The initiative would make the it's not trivial if it passes," said state health officer responsible for State Health Officer Dr. Jonathan holding public hearings to set Weisbuch, throwing a copy of the maximum rates for all medical measure on his desk. services in the state.$ Weisbuch estimates Knutson's 
Knutson calls the measure a .~~··••••••IIIIi••• 
moderate proposal for public con­trol health care costs, but oppo­nents say it will make the state health oficer the czar of a stagger­ing medical bureaucracy. 
One of the proposal's most vocal critics is the man who would 
'need resumes in a hurry·? 
I. 

....··:: 

insty·prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 25-8 1/2 X 11 $2.55 203 N. Mam So Bend 289 69 7 
measure would require an addi­tional 20 health department em­ployees to process medical rates for a million services covering he entire range of health care, plus 40 persons to enforce them, at a cost ­of S6 million a jear. 
* 
*
*
*
* 
*
* 
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
*
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
*
*
* 
* 
*
*
*
* 
*
* 

Walk into the incredible true experience of Billy Hayes. And bring all the courage you can. 
COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents ACASABLANCA FILMWORKS Proruclion rl An ALAN PARKER Film MIDNIGHT EXPRESS Executive Producer PETER GUBER Screenplay by OLIVER STONE Produced by ALAN MARSHALL and DAVID PUTINAM 01rfl:ted by ALAN PARKER Music Created by GIORGIO MORODER 
Based on the true story of Billy Hayes from the bOok Midnight Express by BILLY HAYES and WILLIAM HOFFER ""'"''111111Cl"FOP£06A'' ~ O"g'nal Soun!lradl Album available trom CASABlANCA RECORD And FILMWORKS
~~ 

THEATRES _____ ., __ -·-,·-·-"·-··--··... --------.. ......~----~ ----·--···---.. 
Thursday, October 19, 1978 


I WANT ~ ~y Two ! 
~IN61N6j 
T11E7E ARE. JDST 1liE 
FoR. A 
NEEP To 'Do THE 
1'-=~~rr? hbRK 4SSIGoNEP y FOrt<. BREAK• 
• 
' 
Mon.,· 



Mario's
Wed., Michiana's newest disco
& Thurs. Serving Olympia beer on tap Special Price P~~cher Beer Night DISCO dancing nightly, except Tues. come on down and party Y2 mile north of Shula's 
Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
5:15 p.m.  Saturday Rev.  Robert  Griffin  
9:15  a.m.  Sunday  Rev.  John L.  VanWolv1ear  
10:30  a.m.  Sunday  Rev.  Rtf..chard J.  Conyers  
12:15 P.m.  Sunday  Rev.  William Toohey  
7:15 p.m.  Vespers  Rev.  Richard J.  Conyers  

Bill to fight education costs 
by Andy Segovia Staff Reporter 
The office of Third District Congressman John Brademas announced passage of the Middle­Income Assistnace Act by Con­gress. The bill is now before the President for probably signature. 
The legislation would provide increased financial aid to students from middle income families and expand eligibility for subsidized student loans to all stud((nts, regardless of income. 
Brademas, who co-sponsored the bill, stated the bill would strengthen five existing programs of student financial aid: 1 Basic Educational Opportunity Grants; 2 guaranteed student loans; 3 supplemental educational oppor­tunity grants; 4 college work-study programs and 5 state student in­centive grants. 
Brademas felt that the bill is necessary because middle income families are finding it difficult to meet college financial needs. 
Statistics point out that total stu­
dent charges for higher education 
have risen at a· higher rate than 
after tax income. 
Under the bill, the income level for eHgibility for a guaranteed student loan would be removed, thus aiding middle income families who lack the ready cash to be able to pay for college costs without hardship. Brademas said that this provision would also reduce admi­nistrative costs in the program. 
1)irector of Student Financial Aid at Notre Dame, Joseph A. Russo. called the legislation "major step forward." 
"I am very pleased with the measure it is something the student a1d profession has been working toward for some time." 
According tp Russo the bill would be of significant interest to Notre Dame students. "The legislation will definitely have a positive affect on the financial aid situation at the Universitv, howeer, it is far too early to -know the specific results." he said. 
Russo speculated that the major­ity of students will be affected by elimination of the ceiling for guar­anteed student loans and the expansion of current federal grant programs. 
''Although the bill will alleviate many financial problems it still falls short of meeting the financial requirements of all students," Russo continued. "Because of the limited amount of federal aid, the Universitv cannot meet the finan­cial need; of everyone." 
The bill will not change applica­tion procedures for Notre Dame financial aid, Russo said. 

Russo observed that students often lack information concerning ·aid for higher education. "We are in need of providing simple, timely, 
accurate  information  about  the  
student aid procedure."  
The  director  emphasized  that  

students should apply yearly for federal aid because of develop­ments such as this legislation, which change their status regard ing financial aid. 

Karpov defeats Korchnoi 
MOSCOW fAP1-Victorious -chess champion Anatoly Karpov was officially cr:edited here yesterday with upholding the Soviet way of life by beating "unscrupulous" defector Viktor Korchnoi in the world championship tournament in the Phillipines. 
Defeating "a very experienced, 
dangerous and perfidious adver­
sary," the official Tass news 
agency said, Karpov carried ''the 
greatest responsibility ever borne 
in a match by a Soviet chess 
player" in defending his title. 
Using the words of a Phillipine 
commentator, Tass said, "Anatoly 
Karpov, just a young man, is 
defending the social system which 
he represents, and which his rival, 
who fled the country, is trying to 
discredit.'' 
Korchnoi, 47, resigned yesterday rather than resume a game arl· journed Tuesday. That gave Kar­pov, 27, the sixth win he needed o to end the three month long tournament at Baguio City. He keeps his title and wins $350,000. Korchnoi gets $200,000. 
Korchnoi, who claimed match organizers made him play under "intolerable conditions," said he would file a protest. 
''The organizers did everything in their power to slander me, destroy harmony with my company to break my nerves,'' he said. 
He said Karpov had "carte blanche to every available illegal trick to disturb his opponent." 
Korchnoi said he will bring up 
the conduct of the match when the 
International Chess Federation 
meets this month in Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. 
In Moscow, there was jubilation and relief, at least on official levels, that Karpov defeated the man who defected from Russia during a chess match in the Netherlands in 1976. 
At the M()scow Chess Club, where fans followed the games on chess boards, telephone calls of congratulations poured in. 

Masquerade party tickets to go on _sale 
~mrn A¥tJL ~ \}<Jrn®wcarn~~ ~rm~~~QQQ QQQ~ ~~ ~ ~j\~~ggg 

brian mchale jim murray debbie shemancik (9-???) 
by Anne Hesslau 

The Saint Mary's Social Commis­sion and McCandless Hall will co-sponsor a Halloween masquer­ade party Oct. 30, in the Angela Athletic Facility from 8 to 12 p.m. 
Tickets will be sold in both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame cafeterias for $1.50 today and tomorrow as well as on Oct. 30. Tickets will also be available at the door. 
Apple bobbing, a pumpkin pie eating contest, and a costume contest are the featured activities. 
Dry  ice will  surround  the  dance  
floor  for  an  eerie  effect,  and  a  
WRBR  disc  jockey  will  play  all  

types of music. 
There will also be a haunted house and horror films shown throughout the evening. For an additional 25 cents, pictures will be taken of people in costume. Refreshments to be served include doughnuts, candy and cider. 

• 
· 


~----.-------~--~~---.~----~-----.------------~------~------------------------~------------------------------------------­

Food fights are wasteful 

ne.r Editor: 
I am writing this letter to share with you and the students my concerns regarding dining hall conduct -or more correctly, dining haJJ misconduct on the part of a minority of the resident students eating at North and South Dining Halls. I have taken the time to look up the regulation in da 1M regarding food fights and quote: "The throwing of food Qr other objects in the dining halls is a serious offense against the entire community" (Page 31, para. 10, under Regulations). This rule was added to du 1M this past year at the insistence of students who I believe represented the majority view -that the dining haJls are not the place for disorderly conduct and food is not a toy to play with. You know as well as I that room and board rates have continued to increase each year. Unnecessary food waste is a prime factor as to why your meals cost what they do. However, the cost of food wasted is negligible when compared against the safety of the employees and customers of the dining halls. 
Saturday nite after the Purdue game, a few students decided to throw food. If I felt that this "demonstration" was a protest against the food, although I would not condone it as a viable expres­sion of dissatisfaction, I could at least understand it from an emotional level. However, the students involved simply were "celebrating the game" according to them. The incidents led to our closing a dining hall early to protect the safety of our employees and the students trying to eat their meal. Our student employees had to clean up the mess -certainly not a part of their regular duties. Some of the students involved were caught and had their J.D.'s pulled and will be subject to disciplinary action. Others, I'm sure, "got away with it". I would question the maturity of such individuals and 
would venture to say that they do_ ... the same? not yet have the capability to ·--.. ' William G. Storey handle themselves as adults and [Professor of Theology] college students. 
While food fights most recently have been our major concern, there 0-C students are other areas of misbehavior of which I am well aware. Let it be use Huddle too known that drunkenness, dis­orderly conduct, obscene language, and harassment of dining hall Dear Editor: employees and customers are not Notre Dame has repeatedly acceptable modes of behavior. Any assured its off-campus students person conducting himself or her­that they are not "second-class self in such a,manner will be asked citizens." Fine. I live off-campus to surrender their I.D. card, will be and I don't feel like a second-class asked to leave the dining haJJ, and citizen at all. However, I do notice will be subject to disciplinary that off-campus students are often action. rather blatantly excluded from 
• Hdis&ppointment .... Ms..-..Qaus! ~·eb--­jective" analysis of supposed 
• 
I welcome any help you can give 

us in dealing with this problem. 
We are trying very hard to make 
the dining halls a pleasant place to 
work and eat. Any ideas you may 
have can be communicated to your 
Food Committee Advisory Board 
member, or if you wish directly to 
your Dining Hall Manager or 
myself. Thanks for taking the time 
to read this. 
Robert J. Robln11011 
Sr. Food Servlee Dlreetor 
Where is Jim 
Payton!? 

Dear Editor: 
Thank you for your detailed coverage of the recent meeting between student representatives and the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. I wish them success although I regret to say that such polite tactics will probably yield nothing substantia). 
Now how about a little investiga­tive reporting of the layoff of Jim Payton? Where do things stand at present, not only in regard to Payton, but also for all those working people on this campus who make our life together both com­fortable and possible? Why is the administration so hostile to union­ization? What happened to the social teaching of the Church on the right to organize and bargain collectively? What do working people think of the attempts to organize them? Are they really afraid of being fired? 
Student interest in the oppressed of other cities and other lands is commendable but what about this "special place?" Surely the adver­sary stand-off between administra­tion and workers menaces our cherished family atmosphere. Social justice may be impossible to achieve in the larger world but how about if we try harder at a Catholic university? 
If money is the problem, I hereby volunteer to sacrifice any potential raise this year so that grounds­keepers, maids, garage personnel, laundry workers, et at. might be paid a living wage. Perhaps other faculty members would care to do certain decision-mating processes 
that do affect them on this campus. 
A case in point was in the article 
about the rennovation of the 
Huddle (October 16). 
The article said that ON­
CAMPUS students would be sur-. 
veyed to find out what items should 
be sold in the new Huddle store. 
Each HALL would have the oppor· 
tunity to meet with representatives 
of the food service to suggest what 
should be offered for sale. There 
was no mention of any opportunity 
for input by off-campus students. 
None at all. 
Now, I ask you, who probably 
uses the Huddle and LaFortune 
more regularly than any other 
group on campus? Off-campus 
students. Who needs to do grocery 
shopping, even if just on a small . 
scale? ·Off-campus students. Who 
would find it really convenient to 
have an on-campus store? Off. 
campus students. 
Who wasn't asked for input?! The off-campus student. 
It's not good business, for one thing, to neglect a potentially strong consumer group. It's not good politics, either, to neglect a substantial number of members of the University community. Per­haps the neglect was not intended, but I think somebody rea]]y slipped up when he or she neglected to even try to find out what off­campus would buy in a store in the Huddle. 
This is not the only case in which off-campus students have been so neglected. I would suggest that if Notre Dame is so concerned that her off-campus students not feel like "second-class citizens," she could find better ways than this of showing concern. 
Please don't neglect us. Or if you must, try to avoid doing it on the front page of 1be Observer 
•· it hurts. 
Anne B. Huber [off-campus) , 

The true cause of Duane Allman 's death 
Dear Editor: 
This is in response to the Neil Young critic who thinks he's really up on the music of the "serious minded late sixties and early seventies''. Please tell him that Duane Allman did not OD, but died in a motorcycle accident on October 29, 1971. 
Michael Martin 

Zhivago Nyet II 
Dear Editor: 
A few reflections on my article 
''Zhivago:Nyet'' 
I erroneously expected the 
Zhivago showing at SMC to be 
shorter than it was. Earlier this 
decade (circa'70-'71) I missed an 
edited version being offered near 
NYC's now defunct Filmore East. 
Time for the shortened version was 
approx. 3 hours. Based on this 
premise, my protest for two show­
ings is warranted. Obviously, the 
uncut version demands one show· 
ing per evening. 
As a frustrated author of ignor­
ant letters, I applaud Ms. Bradley's 
keen sense of psychological insight 
in addition to her superior knack for 
rhetorical bombast. Irrationality 
aside, Ms. Claus' entrance to the 
showing at 8:30 could not possible 
have been through the left door 
(locked) or the right door, which is 
where I was turned away. Is it 
rational to assume she entered via 
the chimney, in collusion with a 
more famous Claus? 
My date for the evening was a 
vivacious young lady from SMC, 
who witnessed most of the scenario 
at Carroll Hall and shared my "social animosities" reflected in my letter is amusing since some of my best friends reside at SMC. Your mordacioos accusations (lying, creating dissension within ND-SMC), when juxtaposed with your request for an apology, reveal a blatant hypocrisy any Pharisee would have envied. 
I apologize onlx to individuals against whom 1 have willfully wronged. Blanket apologies to faceless organizations and mythical images are nothing short of idoJ­trous. ldolotry, Ms. Claus, is a serious affront to God. I decline your haughty invitation to kneel before your nebulous image, and 



The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 The Obser~er is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objoctively as po~sib~e. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all m~mbers of the community, and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters, .is encoura~ed 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor'r Editor Jean Powley St. Mary'sEditor Ann Cales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Cruley Features Editor 
Thursday, October 19, 1978 
suggest you review the Ten Com­mandments, particularly the first one. 
In conclusion, the pseudo­dilettante referred to an individual usher. 1t is not an indictment of anyone else at SMC. Persons with fragile egos within corporate bodies oftentimes presume, falla­ciously, that a criticism of one is an 
::attack on the whole. My blast meant to expose the pomposity and callousness of one persou who soured an otherwise enchanting evening. 
a.r~~a.,ller A. Stew.n 

PS: What is a poopsie? 
DOONESBURY 
SIQITOf/N6 FRf»t 916LJSH, H?.. 8E61N THEN SIVKE OI~Y 
W ff/5 OWN n::tJ'I"'...::=. 
by Garry Trudeau 

liEU, AS I 70LD C85 Elli/JER, MR. ~St»tEFlli8IJS 11/IU CMTCIZ£ ME. BUT 7HifT15 711£/R. R/6HT. ff15 70 Be t:XPeCTl:P. 7/EI1£ 15A PH/l-05(11H!CAJ.. 7HI5•• 
.."c'EsrtA we... ,. 



------------------------------~--------------------­



ectacular 



Plays 


( 
l ) 
rr. 
j·. 
}~If 
r 
I
I 
t 
( .I I 
! 
r 
i 
I 
·~-._ 
' 
Leprechaun Steve Muthing embodies Irish enthusiasm. 

During football season, Notre Dame is, 
undeniably, the location for a football enthusiast. Much attention is focused on teams and plays that make the games the exciting sporting events that they are. But, the antics of people off the playing field also call for credit and appreciation. Their · creativity, expression, and loyalty make the fall atmosphere at Notre Dame complete. 



This alumnus from the class of 1916 may 
A recent alumnus nQw doing graduate 
A '44 alumnus shows his "class," sym­look calm, but he has· enough wild 
bolized by the martini glass. memories to just chuckle at the other two.
work in inebriation. 
,• 


Edited by Karen Coruso .. Photographed by Cote Magennis 


10 the obsaryar Thursday, October 19, 1978 • 
Neutron bomb parts ordered into production 
._....................----~......--...................................--.........................____ HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
LAW? BUSINESS? 
or PUBLIC POLICY? 
Which graduate program offers the best 
prep,aration for a career In public service? 
On Friday,. October 20, Greg Upscomb, a 
representatiVf1 of the John F. Kennedy 
School of Gowmment at Harvard Univer­
sity, will be on campus to disaJss the 
School's program .in public policy. 
Students from all .malors are invited. 
Contact Pl~ment Bureau, Administra­
tion Bldg., Rm. 213, 283-83.42. 
I 
II 

Daryl Hall John Oates ....-~-Along the Red Ledge 
.( 
Includes: I Don't Wanna Lose You ll's a Laugh Melody for a Memory The Last Time 
BOSTON 
DON'T LOOK BACK 
including: Feel in. Satisfied/ A Man I'll Never Be It's Easy/Party/Used To Bad .News 
HEART DOG & BUTTERFLY 
including: Straight On/HighTime/Cook With Fire Dog & Butterfly/Nada One 

EPIC 
CHRYSALIS 
CHUCK MANGIONE Children of Sanchez 
STEREO LPS & ~3-TRACK TAPES SERIES 798 



• A&M 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
THE HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Powell said the decision was unlikely to have any impact on the ~rrent Strl!.tegic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALn neaOtiations. 
PowelJ emphastzed tJiat no final decision has been made on assembling the complete neutron weapon or putting it to use as a Jine of defense against Soviet and other Warsaw Pact forces in Europe. · 
The bomb formally known as an "enhanced radiation warhead," is · a smalJ warhead that would be 
placedon Lance missiles and 8-inch artillery shells. It produces twice the deady radiation of a conven­tional nuclear bomb but less than one-tenth as much explosive power. It is designed to kill enemy soldiers without causing wide­spread destruction of buildings in populated areas. 
Powell said • 'the elements need­ed to produce an assembled war-· head will be kept here in the United States.'! But, he added, the actual assembly "will take much less time once the elements are in e:xis­tence." 
Carter disclosed on April 7 that 

he was deferring production of the 
weapon, holding off a decision 
that he said would be influenced by 
the degree of Soviet restraint in 
conventional and nuclear arms. 
But the president said at the time that the Pentagon was being order­ed ''to proceed with the modemi-. zation of the Lance missile nuclear warhead and the 8-inch weapon system, leaving open the option of .installing the enhanced radiation 
elements." · 
Asked why Carter had decided to go ahead . · with the components' production, Powell said, "We're simply ~ady to proceed now.'' 
"To have enga~d in a. 1ong delay would have no doubt been the subject of much speculation," the press secreatary said, insisting that he saw no political imolication in the timing of the decision. 
State Department oficials said privately yesterday that European allies directly involved in the neutron weapon controversy were being informed of Carter's decision 
by Defense Secretary Harold BrowQ. 
The weapon wasdesiiZ!Jed as a replacement for the approximately 7,000 nuclear warheads deployed in Europe. · It would counter the increasing conventional military . strength, particularly in tanks, of the Warsaw ·Pact countries along 
· 
the central European front. Ever since its development be­
. came public, the weapon has been t.he target of a worldwide Soviet . propoganda. campaign. It is not known to be part of the Soviet arsenal. · 
Critics have said that because the bomb poses only a miniJ!lal threat to property, there would be a greater temptation to use it, thus increasing the chances of war. 
The U.S. has counterd _by arguing that the bomb is•a more effective deterrent against conven­tional attack because it could be used effectively to stop one. 
O'Neil speaks 
011 discipline 

continued from page 1 
volume of lawsuits challenging student discipline has dwindled to a "trickle." 
O'Neil said that conditions on campus have changed and that today's ·students are different. "Today one seldom encounters anything more disruptive than an orderly line of march or a display of strikingly civilized signs and pla­cards." 
He also pointed ~ut that colleges and universities were quick to respond to pressure from courts in the late 60's to sharpen and formalize their disciplinary proce­dures. 
As a third reason for the decrease of lawsuits, O'Neil cited an overall "relaxation of rules" due to the lowering of the age of majority, the deference in attitudes of stud,nt personnel professionals, and an "understandable reluctance" of adminstrators to risk being taken to court all over again. 
O'Neil said, "The rules are fewer today, their enforcement fairer, and the propensity of students to test them in court is far less.'' 
O'Neil completed his undergrad­uate study at Harvard in 1956 and also obtained his masters and law degree there. He is currently a member of the National Advisory Council on Higher Education, the Carnegie Council on Policy Studies in Higher Education, and the Governing Board of the.,Academic Freedom Fund. 
He has taught at Tufts University, the University of California at Berkeley, the State University of New York at Buffalo, the University of Cincinnati, and is currently serving as Professor of Law at Indiana University. 
Navy tickets 

to be picked up 
Students who requested tickets to the Notre Dame-Navy football game in Cleveland on Nov. 4 are asked to pick up their tickets on Tuesday, Oct. 31 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. AU monies must be turned in at this time. Also, a sign-up will be held for those needing transportation to and from the game. 
Due to circumstances beyond the control of the Cleveland Club, students who requested hotel acco­modations for the weekend must provide a ten or fifteen dollar ·room deposit in order to secure their reservations. This deposit must be made as soon as possible and should be sent to: Hollenden House, E. 6th and Superior Ave., Cleveland, Ohio, 44114. 
If there are any questions, call Chris (1798), Dave (1553), Cindy (1363), or Roberta (4-1-4489). 
WASBINGTON (APJ· President Carter has ordered production of the crucial elements of the neutron weapon but is reserving judgement on its deployment, his chief spokes­man said yesterday. 
Carter's decision, which moves the Unitea States a step closer to building the deadly nuclear war­head, was announced by press secretary Jody Powell at the daily White House news briefing. 


Thursday, October 19, 1978 the observer 11 
Debate team finishes fifth 
by Michael Frailey thing totally out of your area, you must be a big enough person to 
The Notre Dame Debate and realize it, and change your pro-Forensic Team finished fifth out of gram." . a field of 19 midwestern schools Along with Robinson and Fatr­last weekend, in their first meet of cloth, the members of this year's their 1978-79 season. Illinois State Forensic team include Larry sponsored the competition, which Kenney, ·Dusty McGill, John was held in Bloomington. Illinois. Davenport, and Bill Patt. 
First year coach Michael Smydra Currently, there are six forensic noted that the fifth place finishe meets scheduled for this year and was a big accomplishment for his possibly more if as Smydra put it, team. "our budget can hold up." He 
"In the dramatic interpretation continued, "Our budget is Jes.s competition, we had two of the top than half of most of our competi­six finishers," Smydra pointed out, tors' funds. · ·•no other school can make that However. we make up for it with claim." He continued, "Overall, I something no other school was very pleased and impressed 
with our performance." Dale Ann possesses--the N.D. pride, tradi-Robinson placed first in the dra­tlon. and spirit." 
matic inerpretation competition, as Smydra also pointed out that_ th_e she performed a scene from !he Forensic team could benefit tf tt broadway play, "For Colored G1rls had more people and he urged . Who Have Considered Suicide all interested students to get m When the Hainbow is Enough." contact with him. Robinson also 
Freshman Sean Faircloth urged participation. finished sixth in the same competi­"If you enjoy traveling, and tion while also taking the fifth spot meeting students from other in the Prose category. schools, I would highly suggest you 
Smydra and Brother John Doran, join," Robinson said. "It is not who share the coaching responsi­only interesting but you can also bilities, are by no means new­learn a lot." comers to the world of forensic and Those interested can attend the debate. 
regular Wednesday night me_etings The NO Forensic Team poses with the trophies they won at last weekend's competition [photo by
Smydra, now a first year law at 7 p.m. in room 5 of Washmgton Mark Ricca] student here at the University, who Hall or phone Smydra at 277-5758. was an undefeated varsity debater 
at Michigan State a_s an under­~*******************************************************************t 
graduate. 
* * 
Meanwhile, Doran served as the varsity debate coach at Notre Dame * # * High School in Los Angeles . * * where he produced many m­* * 
* N * 
dividual high sehoul national cham­
* * 
pions. Smydra commented briefly on * * the nat.ute of the Forensic team * *
* * 
which, along with the Debate team, falls under the title of the Notre * * Dame Debate Council. * *
* * 
"A forensic person or rather an 
* * 
'individual eventer' is one who competes in individual rathe~ than * * ** team events,'' Smydra explamed. ''They compete in areas such as 
* * 
presentation of poetry, prose, and * * dramatic interpretation.'' The coach also nQted what he believes a good "individual even­
! * FIN A : i * 
ter" needs. "Obviously, a certain amount of raw talent is involved," 
* * 
he said. "But along with this one 
* * 
needs a lot of preparation, wise and 
* * 
proper selection of material, as well 
!* How hiring you can cost somebody S45,300 Plain llii1<'"ilioiit PROiifrS !* 
as an ability to take criticism.'' Robinson, who placed first in the * 93,(~),(XX.l Americans now hold jobs. But that won't mean Over our company's 78-year history, Armco has averaged * dramatic interpretation j.::ompe­! much when you look for a job, yourself. You'll have tough 5<1' profit on each dollar of sales. We pay out part of our ! 
tition, concurred with her coach's 
* competition. You're among 17,000,()()() more Americans earnings immediately in dividends to Armco's lOO,OOOshare-* 
description. 
* looking for work over the next ten years. That's how many holders. So out of each nickel, we have perhaps 3ct left to * 
"An individual events person 
* new jobs America must create, including yours. invest in new jobs. * 
needs a lot of adaptability and 
! It's going to cost a lot of money. Before you get a dime of Building $57,520 jobs-3¢ at a lime-is tough. At this rate, :
patience," she said. "I~ the coach 
knows you are attemptmg some-* salary, whoever hires you will have to buy tools, office we must sell another $1,91R,OOO worth of products and ser-* * space, factory equipment and buildings-the things it takes vices to clear enough money for a single newjob. That's why * * to let you do yourjob. The average cost to companies is now better profits are important. They make more jobs. Even * * S45,300 for each job. Government jobs. The Government's money comes from * 
'Dr. Fowler ! We don't mean you can't be hired until your employer taxes on all of us who work. !* finds exactly $45,300. You might walk into an existing job. Next time some know-it-all sneers at business, ask him * * But don't count on it. Not with 17,<XX),(XX) competitors. what he'd do Without it. He's sneering at his own job * * Some companies can hire you for less than $45,3()). But chances, and yours. * 
to speak ! others-heavy industry, for instance-need much more. At , .· !* Armco, our cost is now $57,520 a job. Let us hear YOUR plain talk about jobs! * 
* That money must come from whatever a company has We'll send you a free booklet if you do * 
Dr. William A. Fowler, Professor 
* left over after expenses. In other words, from Does our message make sense to you? We'd like to * 
of Physics at the California Insti­tute of Technology, will deliver a * profits. A company might borrow against know »·hat you think.. Your personal expen'ences. * public lecture entitled, "The Age ! future profits to make you a job. But still, Facts to prove or disprove our point. Drop us ! of the Universe, the Galaxy and the * profits pay for jobs because that's the a line. We'd like your plain talk. For telling * Chemical Elements,'' at · Notre * only source companies have. us your thoughts, we'II sendyou more informa-* 
Dame Friday, Oct. 20. 
* Ifyou asked your friends how much the tion on issues affecting jobs. Plus Armco s * 
Fowler will speak to a general 
~ average U.S. company clears in profits on famous handbook. How to Get a Job./t answers :
rather than technical audience, and 
* each dollar of sales, chances are many of 50 key questions you 'II need to know. Use it * 
he will illustrate his presentation 
* them would guess 25ft or more. The truth to set yourselfapart, ·above the crowd. Write * 
with slides. The talk will begin at 8 
* is Set or less. That's not much to put to Armco, Educational Relations Dept. U-1, * 
p.m. in the Memorial Library 
auditorium. ! work to make new jobs. General Offices, Middletown, Ohio 45043. ! Fowler has received 13 presti­
* Be sure to include a stamped, self-addressed * 
gious scientific awards durin~ his 
* · bu~iness-size envelope. * 
career, including the U.S. National 
* * 
Medal of Science in 1974. He was president of the American Physical * * Society in 1976 and has served on * ' » * 
the Council of the National Aca­! ARMCO ! demy of Sciences. He is chairman of the Nuclear Science Advisory 
* v * 
Committee for the National Science 
* * 
Foundation (NSF) and the Depart­
* * ment of Energy, and is a former * * member of the NSF National * *
* * 
Science Board. Fowler has served on the faculty * * 
* * 
of the California Institute of Tech­
* * 
nology sine~ ~ 936. 
*

******-*************************************************************r* 
._. .. ....,. -.. --.10···· ..... -~ -"'~"'•:• ....·~~"\'\..0 
-~---,------~----r------~-­




l~~~ St. Mary's Social Commission 
~~J 


Urban Plunge holds workshop
present 

by Kathy Rosenthal According to Swartz, the work­A student can receive one theo­shop was very successful. 
logy credit at Notre Dame or Saint The 258 students who will be Imbriaco explained, "This is the Mary's for taking the Urban taking the Urban Plunge in Janual)' first year a pre-plunge workshop Plunge. If a participant combines
=~=~ Masquerade Party~~~. 
attended a workshop last Sunday has been held. Its purpose was to the Urban Plunge with the course, in the Library Auditorium to help give students an introduction to "The Unseen City," he/she re­
them prepare for this two-day urban problems. In past years,
!Eat Angela Athletic FacilityJ!i 
ceives three credits. In either case experience in an inner-city. participants received this at the a three to five page paper must be At the three and one-half hour annual conference of the Catholic 
turned in at the beginning of the 
workshop, Prof. Thomas Swartz, Committee on Urban Ministry second semester to receive any
Dept. of Economics; Msgr. John (CCUM(." 
credit. 
Eagan, Dir. of Pastoral and Social This year, however, the CCUM
ll Mond;;,:::b; =~::~~es8·~ ~; Ill 
Before the January Plunge, stu­Ministry; and Prof. John Roos, Conference will take place over dents must also read four articles 
Dept. of Government and Inter­break, Urban . ·October so which were distributed at the Oct. 
national Relations gave talks about Plunge participants will not be 15 workshop.


l~~~~~Y!!It!,JJ1.J,,~,f!,§!:,,,~,2i!HM,§,,J 
the situation of America's cities. attending. 
Barb Frey, author of one of those 

Students, under the direction of CCUM members plan students' four articles states, "The Urban workshop co-ordinator Beth Im­activites in the plunge cities. Urban Plunge is not meant to be a briaco, made a slide presentation Plunge participants are sending beginning and an end in itself. 
about contrasts amongst people in their CCUM contacts introduction Rather, it can be seen as part of a the cities. Later Sue Olin gave a letters, because they will not get greater whole. It is a challenge to talk about the value of experiential to meet each other at the Oct. 
reflect on two short days in an 
learning. Conference. 
inner-city and attempt to interpretFr. Don. McNeill, chairperson of "Two-hundred-fifty-eight is the what the experience means in
the Urban Plunge, took care of largest number of students the 
terms of the larger situation of organizational matters at the work­Urban Plunge has ever had," poverty, injustice and oppression in shop. He explained afterwards McNeil noted, adding, "Five years 
the world.'' that this year's students are or­ago we started the program with 20 
ganized in groups on a city basis, students, and this year we have 100 and each group has an assigned more participants than we did last leader. year." 
The final part of the workshop McNeill said that the next stepconsisted ofsmall group meetings. for this year's participants will tkae 
Residents flee 

The purpose of these was to take place in November. They acquaint group members with each must pick up course cards at the other and to set up another group Center for Experiential Learning meeting before their plunge, which (1110 Memorial Library) in order to 
tanker explosion 
will occur some time between receive credit for the Urban January 5-13. Plunge. 
PRINCETON· Ky. [AP]-A railroad tanker believed to contain toxic vinyl ·chloride that derailed and then burst into flames sent nearby Caldwell County residents 
.. 

to a church and the homes of 
relatives for shelter. 
Authorities said an evacuation was ordered after the tank car ' derailed Tuesday night and caught fire. No injuries were reported. 
Officials said they could not estimate how many people were evacuated from the rural area. 
It was originally reported by officials that two tankers, carrying propane and vinyl chloride, were burning. But Mark Hankins, a state police dispatcher, said offi­cials determined early today that only one tank car was involved, and that no propane was on the train. 
--' -,
He said explosives experts were on their way to Princeton from St.


31& 1. 
Louis. The tanker continued to burn throughout the night as authorities considered how best to
That's when our General D.Yn~mics 

deal with the fire. 
team will be on campus to talk to 

Hankins said that although 
you about your future. We're 

officials beieve the burning tanker carried vinyl chloride, authorities
probably best known as a leading 

had been unable to get close
American defense contractor. But 

enough to be certain. 
we also have wide-ranging programs 
in many other high technology fields 

sign of leakage.
as well. We offer qualified graduates 

The derailment of the Illinois 
broad corporate career paths in many 

Central Gulf Railroad cars occurred about 10 miles north of Princeton,
diverse areas: Aerospace. Data 

authorities said. Gordon Nichols, a
Systems. Marine. Building Products 

state spokesman, described vinyl
and Resources. Telecommunications 

chloride as the causing agent. But a spokesman for Chemtrac, a chemical industry group in Wash­
and Electronics. 
There are truly outstanding 

ington, D.C. said vinyl chloride
opportunities in nearly every 

was only a suspected carcinogen.
engineering and scientific discipline 
with particular emphasis on the 
computer sciences. 
Disci pllnes: 
Aeronautical, Chemical, Civil, 
Computer Science, Electrical, 
Electronic, Industrial, 
Marullo
Mathematics, Materials, Manufacturing, Metallurgical, 

cancels lecture
Mining, Marine, Mechanical, Nuclear, Optics, Physics, \ 
The talk by Dr. Marullo on the book Wud #7, originally scheduled
Reliability, Welding. 

for tonight in the LaFortune Little
Be sure to inquire about Co-op 

Theatre has been cancelled. The 
and Summer Intern programs with 

event was being sponsored by 
Amnesty International.
. r General Dynamics . 
I 

Sorin and Walsh 
GENERAL DYNAMICS to donate blood 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

Residents of Sorin and Walsh halls are asked to volunteer to give blood. The sign-ups are taking place this week. For further information, see Pat Shaughnessy 8502, in Sorin and Beth Willard, 8152, in Walsh. 



Thursday, October 19, 1978 

Book Shelfs 
Amer. Express
Piracy thrives off Southeast Asia 
Stereo Shelfs 
Master Charge
Thongkod Chaisiri, a 28-year old 
Floor Sofas 
KLONG YAI, Thailand (AP) -yachtsman said. 
fisherman, said 10 of his friends 
CRfATiVF

Piracy--complete with guns duels, For centuries pirates preyed on 
have been killed by pirates and he 
Silk Screens 
Visa Accepted
sea chases and ransom--hasn't rich traders--many of them 
has encountered them seven times,
gone the way of three-masted Chinese--who plied these and other 
usually cutting valuable nets to
gaeons and Jolly Rogers. It thrives Asian waters. Piracy in Asia 
escape quickly.

today in the waters off Southeast sometimes stemmed from a 
and much
Some fishermen carry weapons,Asia, but with little of the swash-"protection" tax levied by local but Chaisiri says these are little usebuckling romance of novels and strongmen on ships passing against the brigands' U.S.-made
Hollywood. through their waters. Reports from M-16 rifles, M-79 grenade launch­The only things romantic about Associated Press bureaus show ers and machine guns. "IT's likethe sea brigands are the areas in that piracy has been eradicated or having nothing,'' he explained.
which they still plunder: old spice largely suppressed in the waters off '"you go ping-pong and backroutes in the Straits of Malacca China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, comes a spray of bullets and you're between Malaysia and Indonesia; Taiwan, Vietnam and Burma. 
dead."

the waters off Borneo and the In Malaysia, however, news­Police here said the pirate boats, Southern Philippines, and tropical papers now carry reports every few mostly converted trawlers withislands in the Gulf of Siam. weeks of a pirate attack, which is powerful engines, either fire warn­
Fishermen, yachtsmen and even usually blamed on Thais preying on * 
ning shots at the smaller fishing
refugees fleeing Communist Malaysian fishermen to seize their * 
craft--this is often enough to sendl~dochir:ta have been attacked by boats, nets and catch. * 
crews diving into the sea--or simplyptrates m those waters despite the Victims are rarely killed and some * 
shoot to kill. The pirates are use of swift patrol boats, radar and fishermen carry cartons of cigar­* 
usually after the boats, police say, * air surveillance to prevent attacks. ettes, canned food or cash to offer and tow them to Southern Thailand * Sometimes the sea gangs show a as tribute when they are stopped. 
or Malaysia to sell. . * dash of gallantry and send their Ransom money, as much as !2,000, 
Refugees escaping Vietnam by * victims off after filching valuables. is sometimes paid by the fishermen boat also claim to have been * 
But t~ey have also shot innocents to get back boats and nets. *
stopped by Thai pirates and robbed 
down. m col~ blood or !arced them Piracy in the Philippines occurs * 
of their last possessions. 
to swtm for tt on the htgh seas. / largely in seas in the South. It is * 
Thai authorities believe there is
A few recent incidents: believed related to Moslem efforts * 
collusion between the pirates and-Thai police last May disguised to secede from the Philippines and, * 
Cambodians: the pirates providing 
themselves as fishermen and set like elsewhere, to smuggling. * 
needed goods to the communists in out at night to investigate the The smugglers, mostly * 
exchange for protection. Much of 
* 
waters between Cambodia and Filippinos, maintain an uneasy the piracy reportedly occurs in * Thailand where more than 100 co-existence with the pirates and Cambodian waters where Thais * fishermen reportedly were killed the two sometimes rub each other illegally harvest the rich fishing * 
last year by pirates. They were out--to the glee of undermanned grounds and can't be protected by * attacked and a police colonel was Philippine authorities. 
Thai patrol boats. * 
killed. While the pirates usually attack * 
Marine police say many of the
-Rival gangs clashed in early small craft in remote areas, they * 
pirates hide out on Thai islands
August in the Straits of Malacca, have ventured to the doorsteps of * 
n~ar the frontier that are graced
apparently over ransom money the region's modern cities. * 
wtth palms, coconut plantationsfrom fishing. companies. Fisher-The Philippine coast guard * 
and waterfalls. One of the islands,
men reported seeing at least one reports · a significant problem in als~ a have':l for smugglers doing ** headless corpse in the area after Manila Bay where pirates over­busmess wtth Cambopdia, even * the fight in which long spears and come skeleton crews without using 
has a place called Pirate's Bay. * other weapons . were reportedly firearms and pilfer freight from 
* 
used. anchored ships. Raids also occur in 
* 
-In March, off of Sabah in East Singapore, the world's fourth 
*
WYGANT
Malaysia, a boat opened fire and busiest seaport, but police regard 
* 
gave chase to a yacht occupied by a these as minor. 
* 
Floral Co. INC.
German couple ;md their 57 Thailand reported 200 cases of 
* 
*
year-old son. The Germans hauled piracy last year, about half near the 
Flowers -Gifts 
*
up a white sheet to surrender, and Cambodian border where the 
*
t~~ yacht was boarded by pirates are probably the most 
complete wire 
* 
Fthppmos and put in tow. Later, brutal in Southeast Asia. The raids 
* 
without explanation, the pirates have prompted a fairly effective 
* 
cut the yacht loose and fled. naval-police operation and the 
"I'll probaby write about this incidents have dropped off. But 
voyage although few people in fishermen complain there are still 
Europe will believe that there are not enough government patrol 
still pirates around, "the German boats. 
Possible treatment found for Legionnaires disease 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] • An anti­from person to person. biotic has proved successful in According to Fraser, further study treating Legionnaires disease, and is being undertaken to learn more a vaccine may be developed to about the disease. 

LIQUC)RS
prevent it, a specialist for the "One study will be to define how national Center for Disease Control this bacterium gets in the air and said yesterday. infects people," he said. 
However, the specialist, Dr. Another study will attempt to 
ffiichelob David Fraser, said that further determine how air conditioning study is needed to determine systems can get contaminated with 
6pk. S1.99 
whether a vaccine is possible. the bacteria and whether preven­''It might turn out that a vaccine tive measures can be taken to will not be appropriate for this prevent contamination. 
reg 12.23 
disease, but the investigation will He saie that generally older tell," he saie. people, men and smokers are more Speaking to a group at the likely to get the disease than American Legion headquarters younger people, women and non­
here, Fraser said people should not smokers. 

more Lifestyle Furniture and Unique gift ideas 

COED SPECIAL/,-;~·~· 
DIAMOND ~ '8r -~~f'l' EAR ~-~ ~~~ PIERCING:' ~ ~ I 
At Your Diamond Store {-• ~ 
ROYAL PATRICIAN l 
NOW HAVE YOUR EARS PIERCED WITH DIAMONDS. 
For Your Choosing: 
DIAMoNDS, PEARLS, GOLD, BIRTHSTONES, AND SURGICAL STAINLESS STEEL. 
INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
EARS PIERCED DIAMOND FROM PIERCED FROM 
$600 $2400 

~~.Pditicitm 
JEWELERS 
OPEN DAILY 9-9 SUN -NOON TO 5 
North \'ll..ar M•ll U S J 1 NORTH AT DARDf:N FlO 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
* 
* 
*
*
*
* 
*
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
*
*
* 
*
*
*
* 
*
*
* 
*
*
* 


Conn,. 

be afraid of visiting spots where The bacteria which causes Legion-the disease broke out. . naires disease is "essentially uni­
KEGS LITE
"If I were folks, I wouldn't be versal,'' he said, so there is not. afraid. The risk is very low," he way to tell where the disease might said. occur. 
The only major outbreak in In­"We've had cases in 40 states and diana occurred in the Indiana four continents. Almost anywhere University area of Bloomington, is a place where the disease might where 21 people contracted the occur," Fraser noted. 

WINES
disease in the 14 months which ended in August. Three of them died. 
Poet Montague

Fraser said that much more is known now about the disease, Carlo Rossi 13.99 
which causes a form of pneumonia, to present works than when it was first recognized after an outbreak at the American Irish poet John Montague will Inglenook 15.99 Legion convention in Philadelphia give a reading of his works in the two years ago Rare Book Room of the library 
Since then, he said, the bacteria tonight at 8 p.m. Montague's two m&t Astl reg which causes the disease has been published collections are "Poison 16.49
Spumant.
isolated, a successful antibiotic Lands,'' and ''A Chosen Light.'' 18.58 treatment has been developed and In addition to being a poet, he is tests have been devised to diag­also a critic, translator and a nose it earlier. journalist. The reading is being co­12.49 
Studies have also shown, he said, sponsored by the Student Union that Legionnaires disease is trans­Cultural Arts Commission and the mitted through the air, rather than Notre Dame English Department . 
tr.;Jit...8......................._ .... __ ;oo. .. ,............._­
........ ·-··· v 

i 
\. 
l 
I 
I'
! 
I 


,. 
j I I l I i 

14 the observer Thursday, October 19, 1978 
According to report 

Global birth rates declining 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The prophe.:sizing called for mas-. star-seedbeds for population explosion, 
world's population time bomb, valion11Vorld chaos and possible such as China, India, Indonesia and 
expected to begin exploding in the · world war by the year 2000," the Egypt, were showing evidence of 
1980's, may have been de-fused by report says. "If recent trends major and continuing fertility de­
birth control programs in some of continue the world population crisis cline, the authors say. 
the most populous nations, two appears resolvable." In Indonesia, . for example the 
Chicago sociology professors said The report says that contrary to fertility rate between 1968 and 1975 
yesterday. demographic predictions, the dropped 29 percent, or from 6.5 to 
In a reJJOrt titled "Declining world's average rate of child-4.6 births per woman of child­
World Feitility: Trends, Causes, bearing declined significantly be-bearing age, the authors say. 
Implications," demographers Amy tween 1968 and 1975. As a result. They claim that a key factor 
Ong Tsui and Donald J. Bogue of the authors estimate, in 148 coun-behind the fertility decline has 
the University of Chicago write that tries the rate dropped from 4.6 to been family planning movements 
in most developing countries, birth 4.1 births per woman of child-in developing countries. By 1976, 
rates ha'-~ been declining faster bearing age in these seven years. 63 counries in the developing world 
than expected. Some of the most populated had launched their own family 
"Only 10 years ago, doomsday countries which were viewed as planning programs, the authors 
---------------------------·~-say.
I --· They add that in 1976 almost S 1 1 tenniS (Of n e f I billion .was provid.ed to de~eloping
I I countries for family plannmg ser­
r-------------------------1vices by numerous private founda­
• 1tions and national organizations in
1 now
I on IQIe • I the developed world. 
"As of the year 2000, less than a I wilson'1 beat tennis balls 1 fift~ of the world's populat.ion will
I ,., 1 be m the 'red danger' ctrcle of I 2 19 pet can (limit 2 cans) I explosive gro":~h--2.1
population
I • I percent or more annually, says

1---------------------------1t 
h~ repRo~ publishBed by the Popu­
1 11 atton eterence ureau, a non­
1 10% off all non-sale merchandise fot I profit research organization specili­1 N.D./SffiC students and faculty 1zing in population trends. 
I 107 W. Wayne St. neat Rivet Bend Plaza I Yesterday's
~-------------------------~ 
Mid -Term Special at Louie's 

answers 


Olympia& Bud on Tap 2 glasses for $1.00 $2.00 a pitcher 9 to 12 

Today's answers 
SCIENTIFIC HAIR CARE CENTER 
• 
BLOW STYliNG • PERMS • FACIALS 

• 
HAIR CUTTING & COLOR SPECIAliS fS • MANICURES 

• 
ARCHES • TRICHOANAL YSIS 


OPEN: MON-SAT & TH'-'RS EVES

8_ OPERATORS $ l 00 CENTE:R MISHAWAKA 
256-1444 


Glenmary Missioners Room ·26-A Box 46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 
Name_______________ Address_______ City___State___ Zip Age___ 

collegiate crossword 
46 Soup scoop 9' Ace
ACROSS 

47 Like Hilton's 10 Circumferential 1 Amphibian horizon 11 Privy to (2 wds.) 5 -----dry 48 Trailblazer 12 Ti 11 the -come 9 1'The Iliad," for 50 Dunderhead home 
one 54 Links organization 15 Jagger and company 13 -May Wong 55 Newspaper items 18 City on the Po 14 Indians of the 58 Track-22 Irrmense 
midwest 59 Principle author 24 Flock watcher 16 Prefix: foreign 60 Mr. Kazan 26 Well-known drummer 17 Oil field worker 61 Balzac's "­27 Horoscope pro 19 Ship's stem Goriot" 29 Type of cheese 20 Miss Peach 62 Descartes 30 Turned right 
character 63 Follower of young 31 Turn a ----ear 21 Certain demon-or old 32 Soak flax 
strations 38 Suffix: murder 23 Eye part 39 Sawing wood 25 Arm-----(joined) DOWN 40 Great Lakes cargo 26 Jaunty 1 "Gone with the (2 wds.) 28 Bankroll of a sort Wind" locale 41 Refusal words 
( 2 wds.) 2 ----about (circa) 42 Card pots 31 Impartial outlook 3 "Are you some kind 44 Woolly 33 Part of a golf club of-?" 48 "The ----Room," in 34 Suffix for differ 4 Loose-fitting, Chicago35 "A mou-se!" colorful garment 49 Crystal gazer's 36 Street in Paris 5 Samuel Pepys, for words 37 Farming (abbr.) one 51 Mr. Frazier 38 Notorious buccaneer 6 Mr. Petrie 52 Mr. Nastase 
(2 wds.) 7 ----Jima 53 Russian ruler 43 Asinine 8 Noted movie critic 56 Suffix for mason 45 Beethoven's Third ( 2 wds.) 57 -Downing Street 
Wall clarifies statement 
In Monday's Observer Security Director Joe Wall was quoted as saying that over break "Flanner and Grace will remain completely open, but some other halls wilJ be equipped with 'vacation locks."' 
Walt yesterday clarified that 
-;:;-­

statement by explaining he meant that although the towers would be locked, they would remain open to students staying in the dorms. Wall stated that every dorm, including Flanner and Grace, will be equipped with vacation locks. 
.., ................. 

E6G5,~ NID5A4M;SPAH, 
EG65 ANDSPAif; EGGS SA.US­
N3E .JWD SPAM;SPAM,EGG5 


.. 

r-----------=========----;;;rnm---, Thursday, October 19, 197a the ohaarvar 15
PERSONALS 
NOTICES GAY STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME GAY INFORMATION Write: P.O. Box200  Please help me get 2 to 4 GA tickets for Miami. Call (283)-1044. Thaf!_k you. Needed: 5 tickets for Miami. Call Dan 1850 or 1775.  ~,rv~~~m~n:~~:sbr:~~v:~ week. SAO  Irish outlast Morton 5·3, prepare for no.1 Indiana  
Watch "Fancy Fingers Farias" on the 8:25a.m. WNDU news. A star Is born! Pllnnlng a wedding or dance? Music far that special occasion. The Dennis Bamber Quartet. m-8266. Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate, reasonable. Close to campus. Phone 272-7866. -STUDY ABROAD THIS SUMMER? Interested-Contact Dr. A. R. Black, SMC 4948. FOR"fiE NT  Need many GA Miami tickets. BILLS. 289-2046 or 232~. Wanted: two GA tickets for Miami game.Call 2254. , I'll trade Big Money for up to 7 GA's for Tennessee. Call Bill 8604 now. Need two GA Miami tickets. can Brendan 272-7674. Need 2 Miami GA tickets. Call Liz 7484. I need two GA tickets to Miami. Call 2n-1494.  Happy 211t Birthday Mt CII'IIIY. Willi I COUld be there to buy you 1 drink. LM, Colleen McGrath. Dblerverltes: Thlnb for betng super people. Mabl my Job I lot IIIIer! . MOM P.S. Have 1 gaod Oct. bruk. Dear Greenshoes and B.M.• Here It Is. We kept our promise. Now you keep yours! The Great Pumpkins Why doesn't anyone write me apersonal?  • by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor "With our most important game in our two year history coming up this Sunday at Indiana, we couldn't afford a game like this.'' Th~se were the words of Notre Dame soccer coach Rich Hunter after his team beat Morton College, S-3, in their most physical game of the year last night at Cartier Field.  net off 'a corner kick and Terry Finnegan beat the goalie to the ball and put a perfect head into the upper left hand corner of the net. Finnegan missed on another head a minute later, as the Morton goalie made an outstanding save to knock the ball over the end line. But on the following corner the Irish increased their lead. Roman Klos took the kick off the left side, and lofted another good cross, with  

Room for Rent to female. Ironwood at Bulla. 287-2823. Please leave yournumber. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Lambs Fur Jacket from McCand­less. $20.00 Reward. Please call Jamie at 4-1-4904. 
Lost: Pair of glasses: brown plastic in soft black case. If found call Tim 
232-o550. 
Reward: for yellow folder and notebook taken from 10th floor library (...test is over) Please call 6980 or return it to library If you have the heart. 
Lost: SMC Ring "78 LAS". REWARD. 
283-8033. 
Lost: Gold 1976 Cave High School Ring. Blue Sapphire Stone. Gold inlaid C.S. on • 
stone. Name on inside of band. Call 
1864. 
Lost: Women's Timex watch Thurs night between LaFortune and ACC gate 10. Gold with brown face. Call Sarah 6865. 
Lost: 14-K Gold serpentine chain bracelet. Call 8803 Christine. 
Lost: a gold schaeffer pen with a flower design and an inscription. If found please call Cam, 8905. 
Found: Contact lens in case found between Huddle & Music Bldg. Turned into Observer office. Contact Mrs. Popovich to claim. 
Lost: 
1) An Opal Ring. ­
2) A Nardin High School Ring. 
3) Gold Ring with red, blue & pink stones. Call 8144. 
Found: Money on campus last week. Will turn over if day (time), place and amount are identified. Call Badilla at 288-5708 after 5 PM. ­
HOW CAN I RETURN HOME without !flY BERWIC~ High School jacket??? If, m the confus1on of the Hurricane Party you ended up with my navy blue jacket with white sleeves -please call Ed at 
8642. 
FOR SALE 
Carpet Remnants for your dorm room, car, van, or bathroom. Plus garage sale. 316 N. Taylor. Fri. &Sat (Oct 20-21) 9-5 PM. 
For Sale: 2Beach Boys tickets 11th row­+loor. 1066. 
2Beach Bays tickets tor ale. Front stage -padded. Will 1111 cheap. Call John at 1991. 
Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 
683-2888. 
For Sale, 71' VW Convertible, yellow, $900, 256-0648 after 6. 
WANTED 
Need rfden to Cleveland-leaving Fri., Oct. 20-morning. Call 4-1-4420. 
Need rlde/riden to New Yort area after Mon., Oct. 23. Curt 289-7690. 
Need 2 GA Miami tlx. Call Mike 
289-2046. 
Full and part-time WAITRESSES needed at nlcola's Italian Rntaurant. Nice atmosphere, close to campus, good tips. Apply In penon between 4:30 and midnight Tuesday through Sunday at 809 
N. Michigan. Experience necesury. 
Desperately need ride to St. Louis for break. Will share expenses. Call Joe 1523.. 
Wanted: 4 GA, or 2 Student and 2 GA tickets for Tennessee. Call Jim 1752 after 12 p.m. 
Desperately need one or two Notre Dame season basketball tix. Call 4-1-4487. 
Need Miami GA tickets. Call Mike at 7838. 
Needed: Two GA tickets to the Tennes­see game. Name your Price! Call Mark 234-2391. 
Need Ride to St. Louis for Oct Break. Share Driving and expenses. Call Nick 4631. 
Need ride to Minnesota. Will share expenses. Call Bob 6749. 
Need ride to COLORADO for break. If going to or through call 232-8339, will pay. 
Desperately need ride to Atlanta for Oct. Break. Can leave after Emil. Will share driving/expenses. Call Tom, 1135. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/full time. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. AI! fiel~s. ~$1200 monthly, expenses pa1d, s1ghtseemg. Free info.-Write: International Job Center, Box 4490-14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Help! I desperately need ride to Texas .for break. Will share driving, expenses.Call 8598. · 
Need ride to Philadelphia Oct break. Please call Susan 4-1-4509. 
Need riders to Louisville for Oct. Break leaving Sat. noon after GRE Exam. Cali Sue 6971. 
Need 10 Miami GA tickets. Call Joe 
8588. 
Need two GA tickets to Tennessee. Call Tony 6718. 
Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home football game. Call Mike 7838. 
I need 5 GA Miami tickets (not nacesur­lly all togetherJ. Call John at 1991. 
Need two tickets (GA) for Miami game. Call Joe 1101. 
Need ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. Will share exoenses. Call Ann 289-1572. 
Want to go West on 80 for Break? I could use some riders to Iowa, Nebraska or Wyoming. Call Tim 1105. 
Desperately need ride for two from 
Boston to NO on Oct. 28 or 29. Will share driving and expenses. Call 2126. 
Needed: 2or 4GA tickets to Miami. Call Greg 232-o550. 
Please Help!!! Desperately for a ride to Connecticut or nearby. vicinity. Call 288-9049. Will share dnving, etc... 
Need GA tickets Miami game. Call Ruth 7136 afternoons, 272-3513 evenings. 
I am In need of 4 GA Miami tickets. Call Phil at 1479. 
Need 3 GA tickets for Miami. Call Liz 
5129. 
Bl GBUCKS for 2GA Miami tix! Call Bill at 1763. 
Need 2 GA Miami tix. Call Bob 6939. 
Need 4 GA tix for Tenn. Will pay $$. Tom 8406. 
COCKTAIL WAITRESS Need several girls willing to work football weekends and 1or 2nights a week -must be 21. Apply In penon after 6 PM at the OAR HOUSE 231 Dixie Way North [US 31 In Roseland! 272-7818. 
Need riders to Evansville, Ind. Oct. 20. Call Kathy 6764. 
Need aride from Iowa City to NO on Oct. 29-will share driving and expenses. Call Julie 7753. 
Riders needed to Chicago leaving Fri. AM and Sat. AM. $5.00 to O'Hare or downtown. Call Terry 288-5707. 
I will give my tint born child plus money far two good Steve Martin tlxl Call1993. 
Wanted: 3 GA tickets to Miami. Call Lisa 4-1-4140. 

(Guess I'll go eat worms... ) 
Scoop 
Mary Beth, Happy Birthday! Keith 
HI Katie and Tracy, Glad you guys liked the flowers-Have a good Break! 
Scoop 
Scoop: Now you know why no one writes you personals--you wnte so many that there's no room for anybody else's. 
Steve Odland thinks parietals are terrific! 
Kathy: You weren't here Sunday nite, but that's ok -just one more rejection to add to mylong list... 
Scoop 
Sob! Sob! Poor Scoop! 
Ms. Popovich, Hope you're not cracking up inder all the pressure-sorry about all the personals ... 
Scoop 
What about the tvpists that have to type your personals??? 
At SMC there's a Lii'Sis named Lulu who expects calls from all and me too. So 1 tried and tried but her lines are tied with boys of NO going coo-coo 
Loves ya, 
Rocky 
NO-CHICAGO HAPPY HOUR Emerald Isle Thursday Oct. 26th 9:00-m 
BEWARE: Carol~n O'Connor is now 22 years old, and Will be on the prowl tonight at Senior 
Bar! 

Kathy, Get ready for awild break. Chicago here we come! 
Keith 
·carolyn: Wanna----! A Friendly Clam 
P.S. Happy Birthday! 
ATTENTION! ATTENTION! 
Are you tired of all the abuse you see In the personals column?? Would you like something to light up your life?? If so, watch the personals closely, because Compliment Corner with Mr. Sunshine Is coming!! Put on your happy faces! 
SMACers unite, with commissioner Flood a happy birthday. signed, the little guy 
P.S. Dayton is the Pits. 
Is it true that Friday Day Editors plan to spend their entire break In the Manor Bar; the only establishment in Hadden­field that serves N D Socialites? Have a nice break Katie and enjoy your day off. 
0-1!! NANCY MANYAK!!! 3803!!!! 
Anne, Hey cutie, Happy Birthday! Keith 
We were excited at such a late hour, Where was Badin when we needed a Shower? 
DANA CROWLEY• Have a REAL MEAN 20th birthday! MWAAAA* Kathleen 
Rub-a-Dub-Dub, why wasn't Badin in the tub? 
Tim 0: I hope that all is going well for you. I'm heading home to Central Pa. for break. Sometime while I'm there I hope to see Annie. If I do, I'll give her your address. Maybe she'll write you a letter. Then again, she's as bad as you are when it comes to letters! Take care and I miss you here at NO.
. 

Sherry 
"We have some injuries that could be serious,'' Hunter con­tinued, "and it's mainly because of the incompitancy of the offi­ciating." Morton was called for fifty-one fouls, to only nine for the Irish. 
Although Morton did play a physical game, Hunter was not too critical of them. "They have a very good team, and could still play a good game if they played cleanly. But the officials dictated the style of play for the game. The officials in this area are just not up to the caliber of soccer that is being played now." 
The aggresive play of the Morton team, combined with some sluggish play by the Irish , kept Notre Dame off the scoreboard for half of the first half, although the Irish had many good scoring oppor­tunities. The Morton team played a defensive game for the entire first half, kicking the ball out of bounds constantly when they were in their own end. 
Finally with 23:23 expired in the first stanza, the Irish broke through to score the first of three goals in a three minute period. Ted Carne­vale chipped the ball in front of the 
...______________.. Dame drive. The Morton goalie 
Classified Ads 
Class of 81: Attention! 
1st annual George Benson Masq. tix on sale--10/19 and 10/30 in dining halls. !4.00 per two--SMC-forum reps have tix too! .. 
The towels were ready, where was the soap? 
HEY CHICAGO-NO PEOPLE! Emerald Bar, 21 East Paarson, Thurs. Oct. 26 after 8 PM. Break up your break and party hardy! 
Hey Badin, Fisher was there, where were you? 
Kim Convey: You're the greates! Thanks for helping me out. 
Betz 

Fisher 4A coed showeres now open -Badin please bring the soap. 
If you like Lenny Bruce, you'll love Humorlltl Anonymous. Coming Soon. 
Trina, I Love You and Miss You. AI 
Wanted: Secret admirer who drop kicks 55-yard field goals. 
THE ALTERNATIVE COCKTAIL HOUR Steak & Ale presents Mlchelob .75, Ale .75, wine .50. All Cocktalls2 far 1. Come visit our pub! 11:30-Mon-Frl. 
Mardi: Have a good break! Tell T-Bone I said Howdy. Kerbert sends his love too. 
Betz 

ATTENTION ND-SMC COMMUNITY The annual St. Nick's Bazaar is less than two months away! People are needed to sponsor booths. If interested call Betz at 4-1-5148. 
Hair cut $5, Style cut-Air dry $7 at Stacy's. 3421 Mishawaka Avenue, South Band. Phone 289-8822 alk for Stacy. 
Scoop: You are too much! GuessWho­
#1 

Kevin Lovejoy on the receiving end 
this time to kick the ball into the 
net. 

Finnegan started another Irish scoring drive, as he broke through the defense to drive a shot towards the right side, forcing the Morton goalie to make another great save. On the corner after this shot, Carnevale crossed to Lovejoy, who headed the ball in for his second score of the game, and the third of the game for the Irish, who held a 3-0 lead at the half. 
Morton came out shooting in the second half, and with eight minutes expired scored their first goal. Stan Manasek beat Irish goalie Bob Ritger on the left side after breaking past the Irish defense and coming in all alone. 
Three minutes later Morton cut the Irish lead to one. Notre Dame fullback Jim Sabitus was tripped at midfield, dropping to the turf with a bruised ankle, and the fullbacks eased up, expecting a penalty call. No call was made, and Spike Pettas of Morton took advantage of the let-up to score off a pass from Vlado Vlcanski. 
Ten minutes, Bill Sullivan moved down the left side on a Notre 
picked up the ball, and as he kicked it, unleased a left forearm 
straight for Sullivan's head.  The  
official called the foul,  and  Klos  
scored on the penalty kick.  
Vlcansky  halved  the  Irish  lead  

two minutes later, as he beat Ritger to a poor back pass by the Notre Dame fullback, and booted the ball into the empty net. 
Notre Dame scored seven minutes later, as Mike Mai drove down the left side, then unleashed a perfect pass to Sullivan in front of the net. Sullivan beat the goalie on the right side for the final Irish goal. 
The Irish face their biggest test of the year this Sunday, as they take an outstanding team from • Indiana University. "They are number one in the district, number one in the nation, the best team in the country right now,'' Hunter commented. "We had some mental letdowns in today's game, and we can't have that happening against Indiana." This game should have a strong bearing on Notre Dame's playoff chances. 
The game against the Hoosiers, which is scheduled to begin at 2 
p.m. in Bloomington, is just the beginning of a heavy break sche­dule for Notre D~me. The Irish take on St. Joseph's College on Tuesday, October 24, at 4 p.m., followed by Chicago on Wednesday also at 4 p.m., and Northwestern on Thursday at 3:30 p.m. All of these games are on the road. The Irish return home on Sunday, October 29, to take on the Dayton Flyers, beginning at 2 p.m. at Cartier Field. 
,.. 

Need 1 or 2 GA Miami ticket. Call 4-1-4556. 
• 
Thursday, Ckiober 19, 1978 
16 the oburver 








ND gridders look to continue surge 

by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
The Fighting Irish football team travels to Colorado Springs Colo­rado to face the Air Force Academy this Saturday, following a pivotal win this past weekend against Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame has now won three in a row after dropping their first two games. Dan Devine's team seemed to overcome its worst challenge in the 26-19 comeback victory against the Panthers. This week's opponents, the Falcons, should provide easier competition for the twentieth-ranked Irish. 
Air Force carries a 2-4 record to date, coming off a severe loss against Colorado State. First year coach Bill Parcell has had his early season headaches, but fields a team that is capable of pulling off its share of upsets. The main weapon in the Air Force arsenal is quarterback Dave Ziebart. Ziebart was ranked nationally in both passing and total offense in 1977, finishing wih 1,735 yards through the air to go with ten scoring tosses. ~ 
Joining Ziebart in the backfield are Mike Forston and Shelby Ball, who share the tailback duties and the team rushing lead, and fullback Steve Drewnowski. Lining up at flanker is Steve Hoog who has had a disappointing season to date. The leading receiver and split end is Cormac Carney, a freshman with excellent speed. Tim Gulliver mans the tight end position. 
Senior center Gerry Smith is the sole returner on a weak offensive 
Frankin and Bruce Brown at guards 
with Larry Hoffman and Pat 
Meagher anchoring the tackle 
spots. 
Once again the defense has been the weakness on the Falcon squad. The defensive backfield has allow­ed better than 60 percent of opponent passes to be completed. The Falcons have been plagued by injuries, losing two-year starters at the safety spots. The replace­ments, Clay Rumph and Charles Shugg have been less than im­pressive, although Rumph has two interceptions to his credit. Senior Dale Reed and freshman Johnny Jackson roam at the cornerback slots. 
Returning starters Ryan Williams and BiJl Travnick anchor the defensive-front from their tackle positions. A pair of seniors, Tim Tyda and Mark Cerise are a light but quick pair of book-ends. 
The backbone of the defense is All-American· candidate Tom Foertsch, who leads the team in tackles from his outside linebacker slot. Foertsch is joined by Bill Becker and Tod Anderson in an otherwise weak second line of defense. 
The defense has given up more than 25 points per game to date which has forced Ziebart to pass more than he would like to, indicated by his below 50 percent completion rate. However, the junior signal caller is also a threat with his running ability, which has netted over 100 yards this &eason. 
The Irish are looking to prove that last week's fourth quarter rally line. He is surrounded by Craig 


Lou Severino;::==================================~=====~=========:=:=====================:============================================================================~===:===========:=:=:=:=:::=:===:=======:===================:=:=:===:======================== 
Notre Dame by 100! 
E 

..................................... •.•.•.•.·.·.·.·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.·-·-.·.·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.·-·-·-·.·-·-·-·-·-· ... ·-· ...·-· ................." ........ -.... -. ----......................................... . 
_

=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:·.;.·.·.·.·.....·.·:·:·=·=·=·=·=·.·.·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=;·The ItaI1.an ye 

After all the abuse the Irish Eye took last week after picking Pitt, the maligned prognosticator is taking a vacation this week. A vacation is desperately needed after a tragic 4-7 outing. Nevertheless, credit the Irish Ey~ with picking the Purdue upset over Ohio State. The football fortune teller also indicated the probability of a Spartan victory over the Wolverines for the bragging rights to the state of Michigan. In case you hadn't hear, Rice pulled off a 21-14 shocker over TCU. . 
Since the Italians were upset in their bid for papacy, ending a 450 year ruling streak, it seems only fair to compensate their loss by letting an Italian predict the outcome of this weeks contests. Lou Severino gets the'• 
\ honors but don't expect the same accurate results Here are this week's 
I. sure bets. 
Nebraska at Colorado: The Cornhuskers have rolled up five victories in a row after dropping their opener to Alabama. Coach Tom Osborne's offense ranks third in the nation in both rushing (314 yards) and total offense (480 yds) per game. Meanwhile, Colorado will be trying to bounce back after an upset loss to Oklahoma State. The Buffalos, like every Big 8 

,, 
team, also possess a strong rushing attack, bit it will not be strong enough 

I ~ 
I f as Nebraska nails down a 7 point win. 
' ~' Dartmouth at Harvard: Joe Yukica must be happy about moving from Boston College to Dartmouth. B.C. is 0-5 while Dartmouth after last week's upset over Yale, is on top of the Ivy League witfl a 2-0 record. The Big Green defense which held Yale to just three points last week will be facing the multi-flex offense offense led by Crimson quarterback Larry Brown. Harvard, like all Ivy League teams, has been on a rollercoaster this season. The Crimson will be up this week. So to avoid roommate problems I'll take Harvard by 5. Purdue at Dlinois: Mark Herrmann should have a field day in this regional television contest. The Boilermakers running attack has complemented the sophomore's passing very well. Illinois, ort the other hand seems content with keeping Northwestern company in the Big 10 cellar.-Purdue should roll up a 27 point win. William and Mary at Navy: The Midshipmen must be considered one of the major surprises in major college football. Can anyone remember the last time Navy was even mentioned in an Associated Press poll? However, Navy's opponents this year cannot be considered powerhouses, since their combined record is 7-21. But George Welsh can boast about his defense '• which leads the nation, having allowed only 130 yards per game. William 
'. and Mary has a 4-1 record against similar opposition. I'll t.ab Navy by 13. Oklahoma at Iowa State: The Sooners will have to turn in a better performance than they did last week as they barely edged Kansas 17-16. Barry Switzer's speed demons should be able to wear down Iowa State. The Cyclones Dexter Green, is a fine runner and a definite pro prospect. 

was just a beginning Jerome 
·~ ,~,,., ; .~·.t•·.·..' ­
~~

Heavens cracked the century mark in yards for the first time this season 
as he passed George Gipp as the all-time· leading NO rusher. Be­hind Heavens is a healthy Vagas Ferguson and Jim Stone. -With Dave Mitchell and Pete Pallas out with leg injuries, four freshman backs will be taking the trip to Colorado Springs. None of these recruits has seen a play from scrimmage so far this season. 
A healthy Kris Haines showed he was back to full speed in an impressive performance against Pitt. This speedster will be testing a porous Falcon secondary. Dean Masztak and Dennis Grindinger will continue to share the tight end duties. 
A rejuvenated offensive line that bullied the Pitt front line looks to improve again this week. Reserve lineman Keith McCormick was lost for the seasn this week in practice with a bone break in his left leg. 
This week's game pro~ides Irish quarterback Joe Montana with an opportunity to continue on his seven straight completion streak. The "Comeback Kid" was mainly responsible for NO's 19 fourth quarter points last week that saved the ,2ame for ND 
The betting -line indicates that this should be a week off for Devine's team but the Falcon's played the Irish tough in 1976 as Montana led a spectacular 21 point fourth quarter comeback that gave his team a 31-30 inspirational victory. Notre Dame has never lost to an Air Force team, holding a 7-0 series edge. 

Joe Montana will lead the Irish as they take on the Air Force Academy in their bid for a 4th consecutive win. [photo by Doug Christian] 

St. Mary's volleyballers triumph 
by Beth Huffman · In game number two, it appearedSports Writer that PUCC would have trouble £allying any points at all as the The Belles volleyball team Belles ran off an awesome nine boosted its overall record to 16-4 straight points. Amy Morris was this season by pounding Purdue credited with serving seven of the Calumet Monday in three straight nine points. SMC held the Purdue games. The best-of-five game scoring attack to almost nil behind match began with SMC dominating the stupendous spiking of Amy the first game from the outset and Terry. Saint Mary' mopped up the holding that lead to win 15-8. game with five consecutive points 
However, the Sooners won't have to rely on one man as they can call on any one of four runners with averages of six yards per carry or bette.-. Look for Lott and Co. to post a 14 point win. Florida State at Pittsburgh: Both teams will be trying to bounce back after losses. Florida State was devastated by Southern Mississippi last week 55-27, while Pitt fell to the Irish 26-17. The Panthers have a fine defense, as they showed for three quarter last week in Notre Dame Stadium. With only 1 0 seniors on their roster, Pitt should improve as the season wears on . .The Seminoles, as usual, have a strong passing attack which will test Jackie Sherrill's secondary. Pitt should be up to the challenge and take the game by 8. Alabama at Tennessee: This match up, which was once the SEC's game of the year. has dropped drastically in significance since the Vols lost Bill Battle. Johnny Majors has begun the rebuilding process but it will be a while before ·Tennessee is a national power again. Alabama has not played well in recent week. Bear Bryant seems to moan about his team more and more every week. Don't expect Bear to smile this week, but look for the Tide to roll by 24. 
•

Arkansas at Texas: The Razorbacks havehad an extra week to prepare for this important Southwest Conference clash. Lou Holtz is another coach who has been displeased with his team's play, despite their 4-0 record. Texas, has had trouble with their offense thus far in the season. Maybe they have too man guys named Jones. However their defense has been strong, especially against the run. I like the Razorbacks by 5. Houston at S.M.U.: The Cougars cannot afford to let down after last week's stunning 33-0 upset of Texas A & M. the return of quarterback Danny Davis has seemed to spark Bill Yeoman's squad which is tied for the SWC lead with Texas and S.M.U. The Mustangs have also been a surprise, especially their 35-35 tie with Ohio State. Quarterback Mike Ford has shown great ability as a passer, which may befuddle Southwest Conference opponents. This is my upset pick of the week: S.M.U. by 6. Michigan at Wisconsin: The Wolverines find themselves in an unusual position--trailing Wisconsin in the Big 10 standings--as they collide with the Badgers in Camp Randall Stadium. Bo may have worked the boys a little harder than usual this week so look for the team from Ann Arbor to respond with a 28 point win. Notre Dame at Air Force: I suppose I should follow the new Ray O'Brien tradition and pick Air Force to win. However, being rational I can't make a prediction I don't believe in. The Irish have a good chance to move up in the polls with a decisive wins in the next few weeks and are finally starting to jell on offense. Air Force has a pretty poor defense anyway so I'll take 
N.D. by 27. Sports Editor O'Brien picks the Irish by 100 (in a bid for nercy.) 
to end the scoring at 15-4. 
The third and final game started out very much the same as the second, with SMC pulling ahead early leaving PUCC in desperate need of points. The Belles built their lead to 6-0, again behind the serving of Amy Morris and the spiking of Amy Terry. Team serving for the Saint Mary's team, picking up six consecutive points 
captainKathyMonahan also turned in her share of great spikes. Purdue notched up their first point to snap the Belle scoring streak. Marion Diltz then took over the 
[continued on page 15.] 
,. 
.............................................................1 
Badin downs BP, takes 1-H crown 
by Bea Witzleben and Ray O'Brien Sports Writers 
In a thriller last night under the lights of Cartier Field, Badin Hall scored an overtime victory against Breen-Phillips Hall, 8-6, to take the Women's Interhall Football Cham­pionship. 
Badin, who finished the regular season with a 5-1 record (theonly loss coming against BP), got on the board with a first-half touchdown by Donna Schaeffer. From there the Badin team that had beat Lyons in the semi-finals took a defensive stand but to no avail. 
Freshman standout Pam Podd tied the score at 6-6 on a run from scrimmage. The Breen-Phillips 
squad then failed on a two-point conversion sending the game into overtime. 
The BP team, who had shut out Farley 6-0 to gain entrance to the ~hampionship, seemed to have the momentum but Badin was not to be denied as they avenged their earlier season loss to their North Quad foes. 
The deciding two-point overtime touchdown came when junior Jane Politiski teamed with senior Chris Buras on a pass play that gave Badin Hall the 8-6 win and the coveted interhaU title. 





