~-~ ~------­
'. 
--* ~~ 
-At.. 
~~ . ..


. . ••
* 
* 

server
e 
,m independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's

Vol. XII, No. 71 
Tuesday, january 31, 1978 


Surprise!! No make-up classes ! 

by Marti Hogan and Phil Cackley Fr. Ferdinand Brown, acting pro­
classes at Notre Dame. most exactly one year after theStaff Reporters vost at Notre Dame, and Dr. James The three-day closing marks the previous closing. On Jan. 28 last 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Duggan, St. Mary's president. longest period in the history of the year low temperatures and high stu~dents will not have to make up Notre Dame announced yester­two schools that classes have been winds combined to produce a wind class days missed as a result of the day that classes will resumf' today. cancelled because of snow. Last 
chill factor of -70-degrees F. 
blizzard which began last Wednes­St. Mary's announced their re­January's one-day closing was the Although a relatively small amount day night and crippled much of the opening last night. Shuttle buses first since 1918, when classes were of snow fell, the schools were midwest. The announcement came will operate today to allow St. also cancelled for one day. 
forced to close.

yesterday as a joint decision from Mary's students to attend their Thursday's cancellation came al­
Sr.Bernadette Marie Downey, St. Mary's director of Archives stated that last year was the first time the college had closed. "We were
Fire damages laboratories 
thinking about it last year and we couldn't remember any other time by Maureen Flynn when the college would have been Editorial Editor 
closed," she explained. Fire broke out in a third floor St. Mary's publications are fairiy
laboratory of the chemical en­complete back to 1926, Downeygineering building Saturday, but said, and there is no mention of a was extinguished by both the closing in that time. The director automatic sprinkler system and indicated that earlier in St. Mary'sfiremen before it could spread to histroy, a good number of the other parts of the structure. 

faculty, both religious and lay,Notre Dame Fire Inspector Jack lived on campus and that for that Bland said the fire broke out in the reason the school did not have to 
area of a high-temperature bath, dose. 
but could not say what had caused Last year's cancellation was theit. Bland will meet this morning first in almost sixty years for Notewith Dr. Daniel Pasto, professor of Dame according to Paul Fenlon,chemistry, and with the student professor emeritus of English and awho was conducting experiments in Sorin resident for over sixty years. 

the area. 

"I have a photograph of myThe fire was reported to security room-mate and myself standing inat 1:35 p.m. Saturday by students front of Sorin Hall in the fall ofLynn O'Dowd and Joseph Dinno­1918, late November or earlycenzo who were working in the December. He was six foot, fiveJabs on the floor below the fire ~ite. 
inches tall and the drifts were asThey became aware of the fire high as he was. Besides then, lastwhen O'Dowd noticed water com­year is the only time I caning through the ceiling. 
remember we closed,'' Fenlon"We went upstairs to see what related. 
was wrong,'' said Dinnocenzo. 

The University was nearly forced "The door to the lab was closed, to close by a blizzard in 1967 thatbut we saw the smoke and the came at the end of the break
water through the window in door." 
The Notre Dame Fire ment and six units from the Bend Fire Department the call. Because of the deep snow they were unable to bring their trucks closer than the road behind 
portable equipment to the fire site. 
O'Shaughnessy, but 

transp~o~rt~e~d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
''The fire was primarily guished by the sprinkler headsby Michael Lewis the area was literally at a standstill. 

0
Bland said. "It was containedSenior Staff Reporter . The Tribune also reported that by the one room."

Monday the Michiana Regional South Bend is beginning to climb Airport was re-opened, some Bland said there did not :seem to~~~~~~~~~~~
be any great structural damage,back on its feet after weathering industrial plants were back to work, the blizzard which crippled the and that buses ~md taxi cabs were 

and materials extensive. Wet, heavy snow was blamed for Captain James Sweitzer of the The third floor lab and the areas 
entire Midwest last week. on the streets again. but said the damage to instruments research could be ~~~~~~~~iffffiiiilllfl 
damage at several area businesses. South Bend Polic:e stated yesterday below it on the second and first that ''things have started to move
Corporal Joe Brunett of the. South floors were flooded with water used 
today, but the main factories are
Bend Police Department satd the to extinguish the fire. Dinnocenzo, Goldblatts furniture warehouse in O'Dowd and others who were
still closed down. "I can't see us Mishawaka suffered "around opening up tomorrow, but that's present in the building rescued not my decision to make."
$300, 000 damage" when the roof what they could from the flooded collapsed under heavy snow. Jabs and offices. 
Many of the •emergency actions effected during the five day period 
Damage to roofs was also report­"The major instruments were ~~~~~~=~~~=~IM!HiiW!il 
were either direced through or protected quickly enough to pre-o,ed at the Ayr-Way department vent much damage," Pasto repor­
store in Scottsdale Mall, the Gold­assisted by the St. Joseph County blatts furniture store in the Town Civil Defense. Donald Germenn, ted "but some books, research and Country Shopping Center, and director-coordinator of the Cvil 
journals and personal papers, 



as IIIEBII!IIIIIIEII
the Weyerhauser CO. at Industrial Deense for the c<:mnty, said all calls well as minor equipment, were Park. for help "came: though the Civil badly damaged." 
between semesters, Fenlun said. "I was in Chicago with a priest at the time of the storm. He walked across town, through the drifts, but 1 had to stay where I was," he said. 
The priest rode the South Shore railroad back to South Bend. and told Fenlon that the train was "crowded with Notre Dame and St. Mary's students going back to register." 
A check of records in the Scholastic stretching back to 1867, found in the Notre Dame Archives reveal major storms in November 1940 and in January 1873, but no mention is made of classes being cancelled. The self-sufficiency of the University community could have been a factor in the school's ability to stay open during period of rough weather. In 1873, the total student-factulty population of Notre Dame was 720, according to the Scholastic. 
The blizzard on Thursday, called by many the worst in a century, dumped over 20 inches of snow on the area. The mean monthly snowfall for January in South Bend is only 16.1 inches (409 em), according to the National Weather Service. 
Last year's record total seasonal snowfall of 129 inches was broken around 4 p.m. on Thursday, with this year's seasonal total at 149 inches as of yesterday afternoon. 
The National Weather service reported nearly 85 inches of snow fallen in January, with the average snow depth being 41 inches. Drifts of up to 12 feet have been reported though. 

Defense Office or the police De­Pasto said experimentsIn addition, the Radio Furniture 
partment. We: knew what was high temperature reactions 
Mart and Sandock's Furniture Co. going on all the time." being carried out in the area suffered damage to awnings and 
fire, but noted, "We've 

exterior parts of the buildings. "We opened up the entire working with this for over a Brunett stated that about 100 feet operator center, answering calls 
now and we've never had 

of awning in front of the Radior and dispatching equipment," Ger­problems. We certainly did Furniture Mart had been removed mann explained. "We knew which anticipate any."roads were bad or closed, and sent
by the snow. "There are lots of possibilities
The South Bend Tribune report­ambulances, four-wheel drive ve­and lots of non-possibilities," Pas­
ed that 41 inches of snow had fallen hicles or snowmobiles and other to said. "We'IJ try to analyze the on the city during the storm, and [continued on page 3 l situation tomorrow.'' liii~lillilliliii 
--~­

the observer Tuesday, january 31, 1978 
,...News Briefs _______,_,_ 
r=-==::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::====::=::::====::::: National 
V-P discusses civil rights 
WASHINGTON-Vice President Walter F. Mondale pledged y_esterday that the Carter administration will strictly enforce civil nghts laws and will strongly support affirmative action as an effective tool. "This governemtn will not support with tax dollars discrimination of any form, whether based on race, sex or disability. 
I cannot think of any form of discrimination more unconscionable than to deny handicapped Americans the chance for a full and productive life." 

rwoods predicts civil war 
NEW HAVEN, Conn.-Banned editor Donald Woods says a major civil war between blacks and whites in racially troubled South Africa is probably inevitable. Woods told 500 students at Yale University over the weekend, "It's unlikely that after 30 years of incriminations that anything will be achieved at the bargaining table." But he added, "You've got to concede, you wash your hands of the whole thing." 

Flu vaccine considered-
WASIDNGTON-The risks from dying of influenza are 1,000 times greater than the risks of dying from vaccination, a government official said yesterday. The assertion was made to a panel of experts considering whether to recommend a mass innoculati~n campaign against the Russian flu. The new flu strain broke out 10 Cheyenne, Wyo., recently and is expected to spread later this winter or next winter. 
Panama treaty revised 
WAS_HINGTON-A Senate committee, alarmed by Panamanian warmngs that a second plebiscite might be necessary on the Panama Canal treaty, scrapped a previous action yesterday and found another way to incorporate U.S. security guarantees into the pact. _On a pair of 14-to-1 votes, the Senate Foreign Relations Commtttee then sent the treaty to the Senate, with recommenda­tions that it be ratified at the end of an expected two to five weeks of 
debate. 

Weather 
There is a 40 percent chance of snow today with total accumulation near one inch. Partly cloudy this afternoon and evening. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with a chance of occasional snow flurries. Highs today and tomorrow mostly in the teens. Lows tonight zero to 5 above. 
,_On Campus Today-~ 
7 p.m. talk,current legal issues and legal education, by dean david link of the law school, sponsored by academic cultural commission, howard hall 
7:30p.m. lecture, the cia, by john marks, sponsored by su academic commission, free, library aud. 
8 p.m. erick hawkins dance company from new york, o'laughlin auditorium at st. mary's, $2 for students and $3.50 general admission 
10 p.m. meeting, knights of columbus 
campus running 
by Mark Rust 
Staff Reporter 
The barrage of ice and snow 
that cut off Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's from civilization for the 
past five days kept most campus 
workers away from their jobs. But 
those workers who did remain on 
campus were joined by students in 
efforts to deliver hot meals in the 
dining halls and keep order in the 
dorms. 
According to Bob Robinson, 
director of Notre Dame's Saga 
Food Service, most employees 
couldn't get in to work. 
"Those who were here stayed, 
naturally, since they couldn't get 
out, and they slept everywhere--the 
infirmary, the dining hall base­
ment, some I think, even slept in 
student rooms," he said."Students 
helped out by bringing in blankets 
and pillows. The Civil Defense and 
the Infirmary aided those workers 
who were on medication." 
Many students helped out Saga 
during the emergency in filling the 
worker-void. Some were regular 
cafeteria employees who put in 
extra hours. Others were students 
whom Saga hired to keep things 
running smoothly on the ''front 
lines" and even in the kitchens. 
Commenting on the novice 
cooks, Robinson observed, "I don't 
know what all our customers 
thought, but I ate it and I'm still 
here. I think they did a fine job." 
Robinson was pleased with the overall operation of the workers in the dining halls during the snowy siege. "I'm very proud and pleased with the way the workers reacted to this. The student workers are to be credited for the way they pitched in and all the students, really, for their patience in waiting in lines and conserving perishables like milk. They were great," Robinson said. 
At St. Mary's, Saga Director Charles Flaim was likewise prais­ing student help effort. "they've done a helluva job," he said. "Quite a few workers were not here and we had to go to a two meal (brunch and dinner) plan. The student cooperation and response has been fantastic. Anywhere where there were shortages creat­ed by the weather, students have filled in--and they have done quite a job." 
Meanwhile, a spot check of maintenance men on the Transpo bus leaving campus at quitting time yesterday revealed that few people had reported for work. 'You see how many people are here,'' 
(continued on page 10) 



Dance group to perform tonight 
The Eric Hawkins Dance Com­pany will appear in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's tonight 
-at 8 p.m. The company reportedly flew from New York to Chicago where they board­ed a bus and traveled through Michigan to get to South Bend, because the toll road was closed. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank Kebe 
Asst. Night Editor: Sandv Colson · layout Staff: Sherry Mum­mert. Dawn Miller, Jay Fos­ter, Ed Neuert, Katie Kerwin Editorial layout: Martha Fan­
ning Features Layout: Yony Pace 
Features Layout: Tony Pace Sports Layout: Greg Solman Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Mark Rust Lisa DiValerio ' Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Readers: Diane Wilson, Phil Cackley 
Ad Layout: Rob Civatello Photographer: Doug Christian 
Eric Hawkins is an original. Setting out early in life to find "if a grown American man could dance without being a fool," he has succeeded in developing a com­plete and modern da~ce vocabu­lary--in creating a total dance-thea­ter experience synthesizing his innovative choreography with live contemporary music. He has become at once the most controver­sial and celebrated American male dancer and choreographer of our time. 
The dances he has created for the Eric Hawkins Dance Company over the past twenty years and more have been called "a new adventure in theater and a kind of sensuous poetry--a unique instru­ment for celebrating the rhythm and sound of life ... as refined and condensP.ci as a haiku." 
Lucia Dlugoszewski is the resi­dent composser who will be perfor­ming with the Eric Hawkins Dance Company. She was a composer at the age of six, nomi­nee for the Pulitzer Prize in music in 1971, inventor of the famed "timbre piano" and of an entire orchestra of more than 100 new percussion instruments. Creator of over 30 modern dance scores, she 
is also an award-winning poet. 
In more than two decades of collaboration with Mr. Hawkins, inventing sounds which interplay with the unique movements he choreographs in silence, she has been instrumental in developing the poetry of total theater which is the mark of the Hawkins Company. 
Her bowing techniques with the "timbre piano" using bows of glass, metal, felt, wood and wire, produce · sounds approaching the sensitivity of stringed instruments. 
Tickets for the single perfor­mance of the Eric Hawkins Dance Company are $3.50 for general admission and $2.00 for students. Reservations may be made by calling the ticket office at 284-4176 from 9 a.m. -noon and 1 p.m. -4 p.m. 
The Observer Is published Mon­d8y through Frld•Y except during ex•m •nd ViiGIItlon periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre D•me •nd S•lnt M•rv'• College. Subscriptionsm•y be purdl•sed for no per ye•rCS I 0 per semester) tram The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, tndl•n• 46556. Second ctess postqe p81d, Notre D•me,
lndl8n8, 46556. 
. The Observer Is • member of the Assocl8ted Press. All repro­duction rights •re reserved. 
Worker, student cooperation keeps 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 6 Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Feb 7 
TilES 
Feb 7/8 Tues/Wed 
Feb 8 Wed 
Feb 8/9 Wed/Thu 
Feb 9 
Thurs 
Feb 9/10 Thu/Fri 
Feb 10 
~ 

Carrier Corp BM in HE. CTS of Elkhart B in EE and HE. 
E. & J. Gallo Winery BM in AL and BA, Lever Brothers Co., Inc B in AL and BA. MBA. Norden Division of United Technologies BHD in EE. BM in HE. 
Aetna Life & Casualty. Group Division B in all disciplines. Corps of Engineers -Chicago District B in CE. IB'1 Corporation BM in all disciplines. Specific requirements will be listed on sign-up schedules. National Steel Corp 8 in ME, EE, Met, Mgt (Operations only). Sargent & Lundy BM in EE, HE and CE. Torrington Co B in ME. Whirlpool Corp B in Acct, Mgt, Csmp. Scl. BM ln HE, EE. M in CE. 
Bethlehem Steel Corp Feb 7) B in HE and ChE. Feb 8) B in EE and Met. Continental Illinois National Bank & Trust Co. MBA. 
Howard Needles Tammen & Bergendoff BM in CE. Johnson Controls, Inc B in ME, EE, Comp Sci. Procter &Gamble Co. Marketing: Brand Mgt. 8 in all disciplines. 
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp B in Hkt. MBA with Mkt background or cor.ceatration. B in ME, ChE, MElO, EE. 
Dana Corp 
B in Acct, Fin. MBA with Acct, Fin backgrnd or conctrn. Ebasco Services, Inc BM in ME, EE, MENO, CE, ChE. Inland Steel Co. General Offices. B in AL, BA, EG. MBA. 
Moore Business Forms 8 in Hkt and Mgt. 
General Electric Co B in AL, RA, Hath. BM in HE, HEIO, EE, ChE, Met. 
ACIPCO Industries BM in CE and ME. Leo Burnett U.S.A. 8 in Lib. Arts, Mkt, Mgt. MBA. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co B in ChE, ME, Chem. Greyhound Corp MBA. 
u.s. Government/All other Federal Agencies not listed BM in all disciplines. 
Unused tix to be refunded 
Persons who were not able to travel to the ACC for the Notre Dame-Maryland basketball game and have unused tickets will have their ticket money refunded, Roger Valdiserri, assistant athletic and sports information director, stated. He said, however, that the "ma­chinery'' for distribution has not been determined yet. 
City officials encouraged prople not to drive to the Sunday after­noon game because of the weather conditions and the University an­nounced no parking would be available. Because of the vacan­cies. students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's who did not have tickets were admitted to he game with an ID. 
The Maryland team flew into the South Bend airport Saturday on a chartered propellor plane. Valdi­serri stated the Mar land team 
need posters in a hurry? 
. . I 
•nsly·pr•nls~ 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
1 00 -11 x 17 posters 
only $10.00 203 n. main DownfOWr' So, Bend 289-6977 
wanted to come and had contacteo the University to tell they they would be able to arragnc travel. Heemphasized that there were no special appeals by anyone, includ­ing NBC to have the game played. 
Student governemt planned the student attendance at the game. Ombudsman and student govern­ment workers distributed notices inviting student to the game and actied as ticket-takers and ushers. 
Valdiserri stated that the game gave students something to do during their weather-caused con­finement and also gave them a chance to release their tensions and boredom. 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 


COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon-Sat 8 to 6 

Next to ~he Distille• ~ 

Tuesday, january 31, 1978 
the observer 





E~ergency airlift plans cancelled 
[AP]-A U.S. Army and Indiana Civil Defense plan to airlift food supplies to about 63,000 snow­bound Hoosiers in 17 isolated areas of St. Joseph County was scrapped late yesterday after roads were opened for automobile traffic, a state officiai reported. 
"We just found out the roads are opened up and people can get out," said Milton Mitnick, state Civil Defense director. "There is no reason for moving in food now. It was not a question of not having food available, but it was just a matter of getting to the source." 
The Indiana National Guard had planned to work with the Army to supply aircraft to bring in surplus food supplies from outside the state and make them available at distrib­ution points within the snowbound area. 
"These were isolated communi­ties," Mitnick said. "State police called up and told me the roads are open." 
The National Guard had six airplanes in Shelbyville available for the airlift but was ''waiting for further guidance from the Civil Defense" before putting the plan in operation. 
The food, with help from the National Guard and local volun­teers, would have been taken to those who couldn't get to the proposed pickup points, said Wil­liam Watt, an aide to Gov. Otis R. Bowen. 
In other parts of the state, food supplies "have been virtually ex­hausted and there might be a need for some special relief,'' Watt said. "In some areas, the distribution channels are starting to open up again. I suspect that for a few days, commodities like bread and milk will be in short supply. In the large cities, though, stores are able to replenish their stocks, at least partially.'' 
The snow that choked Indiana roads and streets gave way to traffic yesterday, as Hoosiers struggled back to work after the state's worst blizzard. 
During peak rush hour periods, traffic backed Uip for miles on major thoroughfares around the state. Though cleared of drifts, most of the roads were snow-packed and icy, authorities said. 
Indiana Bell Telephone Co. re­corded its second highest calling volume since the 1974 tornado. Bell spokesman AI Bolin said that between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. the utility's switching machine handled 129,881 attempts to call into or ut of Indianapolis. 
The trucks began to roll again once the interstates reopened yes­terday. State police reported that many of the expressways were down to just one lane, resulting in bumper-to-bumper traffic during rush hour in the state's metropoli­tan areas. 
In Indianapolis, many of the residential str,eets turned into icy trails as cars spun toward down­town. A bus ride from a residential neighborhood that usually takes 40 minutes took a patience-sapping two hours and 40 'minutes. 
In Fort Wayne, the situation was eased by a plea to motorists to minimize traffic by car-pooling or taking the bus to work or school. The worst time came during the early morning rush hour, when cars traveling toward the city's east end industrial section were backed up for miles on a major bypass. 
"I'm anticipating that at least through the remainder of this week it will be bad," said Chief Kenneth Buckmaster. 
"Then we'll be operating in pretty good shape. We were very fortunate in that many auto dealer­ships that carry four-wheel-drive vehicles cam•~ through like real troupers. Tht: police department used about 25 of them, and we never turned a wheel on a marked squad car in three days." 
Sex Pistols chill aUidience 
[continued from page 8] thing and what's more, he makes you believe him. That's the really chilling part and that's also what makes this lp such a brilliantly realized piece of rock and roll. Rock and roll is anger, eroticism and intensity, and the Sex Pistols embody all of these qualities. If Rotten and Co. seem to be too unrnitigatingly ascerbic, it is only because they know that great rock and roll is only effective when it functions as a means of catharsis; a method of venting hostility when it threatens to overwhelm ... Rock, then, ultimately liberates 
Blizzard causes damages, deat~ 
[continued from page l ] 
equipment, depending upon the 
individual situation." 
Germann noted that the Civil Defense worked as a part of the government, coordinating their efforts with the Police and Fire Departments. 
He also stated that there were "a few storm-related deaths" in the past week, but no concrete figures were being released, since the cause of death has not been determined in several instances. 
Road conditions are still a major problem. Sweitzer said that the "side streets are terrible," usually down to one lane, if not completely closed. When asked about a possible food shortage, Germann responded, ':The food is here, but it's hard to get to." 
The blizzard forced the author­ities to order all but emergency traffic off the highways. Germann said that "95 percent of the people did respond" to the order, but he added that some citizens "went sightseeing" after their neighbor­jppd streets were cleared. "This did interfere with a lot of emer­
gency ~~a~c._': the d~~e~~~r s~aid. 
the soul from the pressures of everyday life. It is redemption, celebration and anarchy. That's 
why Rotten exhorts the kids at his 1:oncerts to thrown things and do anything 
they feel like doing. He is cognizant of the underlying sense of violence and frustration that rock and roll encompasses. Most importantly though, Johnny knows these feelings must be expressed honestly and convinc­ingly. The Who and Stones have always been able to do this and that is why they are great bands. Groups like Arrowsmith and Kiss, do not have an honest bone in their body and that is why their music sounds so shallow and unconvincing. 
The Sex Pistols are a great rock and roll band, maybe the greatest ever. Buy their album and when things really get you down, you can put on their lp, turn up the stereo, and scream along with them. You'll feel a lot better for it. 
Road crews in Evansville and Terre Haute went to work on the ice that glazed city streets and held traffic to a crawl. 
"It takes double or triple the time to move, but they're moving," said Evansville Police Sgt. Robert 
R. Hawkins. 
''There are a few main roads where you can see the concrete but not too many." 
"It's extremely slick. We've got a coating of ice on every street, with the exception of the state highways and they're down to one lane each way," said Sgt. Robert Reeves of Terre Haute. "There's not a whole lot we can do until there's a little warming to let the salt work." 
South Bend residents, seasoned veterans of snowstorms, found themselves in the same situation as their southern Indiana neighbors caught in traffic. 
"There's nothing typical about this," said Division Chief Glenn Terry. "We've never had anything like this before." 
The State Highway Department reported dwindling supplies of salt used to melt snow and ice, but that problem was of no immediate concern because salt generally is ineffective when the mercury drops below 16 degrees. 
The major problems are that deliveries either have to come by highway or via the river," said department spokeswoman Terri Johnson. "Both are jammed with ice." 
Johnson said one company had six barges, each with 1,400 tons of salt, on the Ohio River near Cairo, Ill., and "when they get here we'll be in good shape." 
In the meantime, the department was using sand and cinders to increase traction "and those two help more in these temperatures," she said. 
The cold weather produced prob­lems of another sort for about 300 
,__. 


PJF, Placement deadline change 
Today. will be the last day for students to make class changes and for filing the pass/fail option. The previous deadline had been last ffhursday. 
All Placement Bureau interviews 
his week will be conducted as ~cheduled. Interviews that were ~ancelled Thursday, Friday, or ivesterday will be rescheduled. The Placement Bureau will contact ~tudents who interviews have to be 
escheduled. 
NO employees 


asked to return 
University officials have asked all University employees to make a reasonable attempt to return to work today. Employees are encour­aged to use public transportation and carpools if possible because there is limited parking space on campus. 
.. . . . ,!!!!!!!a
~ 

.., · oii:"LiiJ~ BMIT ]Sp 
IRE •OCIT • liT· 'SIT 1111 I, II, III·ECFMI·FLEI·IQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Progrems a Houl"8 
fJ"here IS• dj"ernacettl 

For ln11ormation Please Clll: 
CoUlect J~-tlMPIJIN 
We:st Lafayette EDUCAnONAL CENTER 
463-7541 TEST fiMPAitATIOH SPECIALISTS SINCE Jl38 
Serving Bloolllingt.o.D. Indianapolis, South Be1nd For J.Dcations in other citiea 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223-1782 

Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico 1nd lqano. Swltzerl•nd 
MCAT, DAT, and LSA T classes now forming. 

residents of Logansport. Ice in Northern Indiana Public Service Co.'s natural gas lines cut off power for the utility's gas custom­ers in the eastern edge of the city. 
The situation was-first discov­ered Saturday night and NIPSCO spokesman Phil Phelan said it was hoped the problem would be cor­rected by today. 
''The exact cause of the problem hasn't been determined," he said. "This is very unique.'' 
Another power shortage hit a­bout one thousand Fortville custo­mers of Public Service Indiana during the weekend, but that was corrected yesterday, a utility spokesman saiei. "We brought in a mobile sub­station and re-routed power until we can figure out what was wrong with the main substation," spokes­
man David Vincent said. "The major problem was inconvenience. Some people were without power all night and that's no fun." 
In the midst of the digging out, a word of hope carne from Purdue climatologist Lawrence Schaal. 
"I think another storm of this magnitude is very unlikely for several years," he said. 




Student volunteers help elderly 'dig out' 
by Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief 
Approximately 200 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students turned out Sunday and yesterday to help handicapped and elderly South Bend residents cope with the effects of last week's blizzard. 
The volunteers, organized by WSND and Notre Dame student government, shovelled out over 40 homes, the graduate womens' housing complex, the St. Joseph's hospital parking lot and Goodwill industries. 
Chris Anderson, a Notre Dame sophomore and an AM disc jockey for WSND, initiated the program during his noon to 2 p.m. program last Saturday. "Once the joy of not having school passed, I began thinking about the problems the elderly might be having," Ander­son said. 
During his program, he made an appeal to students who would be willing to help and began compiling a list of volunteers when they began calling later that afternoon. 
John Ryan, Student Government administrative assistant, heard Anderson on the air, and called suggesting he contact Civil De­fense. Civil Defense, however, was occupied b~ plowing and shovelling with which students coula not 
assist. The authorities suggested 
that students stay within walking 
distance of the campus, helping · elderly and handicapped people. 
Area radio and television sta­
tions publicized the volu~nteer pro­
gram by giving out WSND's phone 
numbers to people in need of 
volunteers to run errands and 
shovel snow. 
Civil Defense referred between 
50-60 telephone calls to the Uni­
versity volunteer program, a civil 
defense spokesperson said. 
WSND started receiving calls 
Sunday at noon and finished taking 
calls about 4 p.m. yesterday, 
stopping only when the station was 
closed, between midnight and 8 
a.m. yesterday. 
"Most of the people calling were 
in desperate shape," Anderson 
said. "Some could not even open 
their front or back doors because 
the drifts were so high." So many 
people called the station for assist­
ance that the volunteers manning 
WSND's switchboard had to refuse 
some calls. 
Anderson's original idea was for 
the volunteers to help the elderly, 
but the volunteers also helped 
other special groups, including the 
ND groundskeepers, Goodwill in­
dustries and St. Joseph'shospital. 
[continued on page 10] 



,!~~ John ~~r~~~onds 
..'....~ -'J 
Chapter 2: Classifying Your Engagement Diamond 
After a few shopping excursions, finally come across a jeweler says, "Since you're students, 
give you a special discount on perfect half carat blue-white diamond. What do you say?" 
Well, what would you say? 
If I could offer a bit of advice, you inight wish to say ''thank you for y..,ur time," as you close the door from the outside. Here's why: 
Student discounts, like sales of any type on diamonds, are nothing but puffery. The worldwide supply of diamonds is dwindeling every year, and those diamonds which are availabe are generally priced in accordance with international stan­dards. So when you're offered a "deal" on a diamond, you can safely assume that (a) the diamond is flawed in some fashion, or (b) it htas been marked up in order to be discounted back to it's original price. Remember that you're ask­ing for trouble if you shop for diamonds in the same way you shop for toasters. 
Secondly, terms such as "per­feet" and "blue-white" are not used by knowledgable jewelry es~ tablishments. Thert' is no quality grading termed "perfect," only those diamonds which show no inclusions or blemishes are con­sidered "flawless" when viewed by an expert in normal lighting under ten-power magnification. Likewise the term "blue-white" 
Ihas been so flagrently misused in 
the past that it is no longer accepted within our industry. 
Fmally, a "half-carat" diamond may legally range in size from .43 carats to .57 carats. A small difference perhaps, but would you like to pay for nearly one-tenth of a carat that you're not really getting? Always make sure that you know exactly how much your diamond weighs before you sign your check. 
At Diamond Import Company we subscribe to the standards for diamond classification extablished by the Gemological Institute of America. Only Graduate Gemolo­gists such as myself can adhere to these stringent voluntary require­ments. By utilizing this gradation system, any GIA member in the world will be able to consistently grade the color (D thru X), quality ("FL" thru "I-3"), carat weight and cut qqality of your diamond. 
Volumes have been written on this subject of diamond classification, so I won't attempt to duplicate them in this column. But if you are interested in knowing more about the nature, pricing and classifica­tion of diamonds, please feel free to get in touch with me. Diamond Import Company is located in the lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend, and our telephone number is 287-1427. 
Next week, a few thoughts on "name brand" diamonds (once described to me as having all the character of a fast-food restaurant). and variations on the tudiational engagement ring (a gr-een garnet instead of a diamond?). 

This is an ,.';i~::;:;;;;;;:;;;;;-----''--~-·-" 
-------------------------------------.. 
Carter fears use of atomic satellites 
-

Tuesday, january 31, 1978
the observer 

WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter promised yesterday to ask the Soviet Union not to send up any more atomic satellites like the one that fell on Canada and said ''we would be glad to forego the deployment of any such satellites altogether." 
Calling for more rigid precau­tions among all nations, the presi­dent said the United States and the Soviet Union should try to develop a "sure fire" safety system to keep such nuclear power satellites from falling to earth or into the atmos­phere. 
"If we cannot evolve those failsafe methods, " Carter said, "then I think there ought to be a total prohibition against earth-or­biting satellites. I would favor at this moment an agreement with the 
Soviets to prohibit earth-orbiting satellites with atomic or radiation material in them." 
Carter spoke at a nationally tele­vised news conference, his second this year. He pledged to pursue the "failsafe" system and the atomic satellite ban with the Soviet Union. Carter said the Soviets told him their satellite was designed to be destroyed during its fall and that it would not explode. 
The president said he knew no more than the public knows about what searchers have found in Canada. 
Canadian officials said earlier in the day that two American wildlife scientists had found radioactive wreckage from the satellite, which plunged to earth Jan. 24 cutting a nine to 10-foot crater into ice on the Thelon River in the Northwest 
Territories. The wreckage was described as structural tubing and a smashed metal canister. 

The two Americans showed no signs of radioactive contamination, the officials said. 
At his wide-ranging news confer­ence, Carter also said: -Rejection of any phase of his tax, jobs and inflation-fighting pro­grams could aggravate the nation's economic problems. He said suc­cess depends on "a very careful balance" between conflicting prior­ities. 
If necessary, the president said, he would try to exert influence on Congress and through the Ameri­can people to keep his progams intact. -He has no intention at this time to intercede in the nation's coal strike by invoking the Taft-Hartley Act, which would require miners to return to work for an 80-day cooling off period. Nonetheless, he con­ceded that prospects for an end to the strike do not look good. 
The president said he hoped the United Mine Workers and the coal operators would speed up a resolu­tion to their dispute. 

From a country as clean and un­spoiled as i .·anada, you'd expect a very special taste. Fresh from North America's most experiC'nced brewery, Molson has been making friends on both sides of the border :>HH '-' 1786. 
Our three import brands are ready to show you just how great Canada can taste. Make it the heartiness of Molson Ale, spirited Canadian Beer, or smooth Golden. Or all three. 
----~ --~--~----­
' 


*The Observe~r 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. ma•·y's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectivE!Iy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and ietters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  Bm:Q Notre IDame Ind. 46556  

Tuesday, january 31, 1978 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley ~.t. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry New5 Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 


Roman Hero 
by Pat Byrnes 


P. 0. Box Q 

been. and still is, prepared to these employees and to place fear receive the NLRB bargaining unit in employees that they will loseAnd the determination, but the Teamsters their jobs if they consider a union. have decided to block the pro­ANSWER: The University has ceedings. been studying the question of The Teamsters have filed an contracting out the dining halls for Unfair Labor Practice (ULP) many years. Proposals from SAGA against the University. By doing Food Service were received by the 


winner is. • • • 
Dear Editor: 
so. the Teamsters are preventing University many times prior to anyI am writing you in the hope the NLRB from issuing its deter­Teamster activity on the campus.
that you might refer this letter to 
mination. The ULP is without These proposals reflect substantial the girl I mention below. 
merit and the University intends savings to the University and the minimum wage was known for
Each year, during Holiday foot­ball bowl games, fifty diehard TV to reject the charges through decision to contract out these many months before union activi­
appropriate channels. The NLRB operations was an economic deci­ties began, and required adjust­

Frigid air

football addicts here nominate the girl who we feel did the most to add in Indianapolis has issued a com­sion. At the time of signing the ments in the Notre Dame staff pay 
to the beauty of our football plaint and will set a date for a contract. the University had no policy. Even though the University hearing. At that time the Univer­indication from the Teamsters of any is continually studying salary and stalks
viewing. 
sity will present i.ts evidence in desire on their part to represent the benefit increases for all its em­
This year I nominated the ND 
public and prove tlhat the charges dining hall employees, nor did any ployees, the timing of this year's
cheerleader who wore the grey are without merit. The Teamsters dining hall employees approach the changes and their implementation 820 Flenner cowboy hat. 
could allow the ULP charges to be University with evidence of any dates were determined by the
She made the finals and won in a Dear Editor: 
processed at the same time that the interest in the union. 
close vote over a USC and Alabama changes in Federal wage laws. As After months of frustration we 
cheerleader. bargaining unit determination and The University has always main­a matter of economics, it makes no wish to make our complaint public. Hope you know of whom I am any elections art~ taking place tained that employees have the sense for the University to increase The heater in' our room does not merely by asking the NLRB to right to unionize if they wish to do
writing and inform her that she is salaries and benefits by hundreds work, and although this fact was our honorary 1978 TV football proceed. The ULP would still be so. The contracting out of the of thousands of dollars for more reported the week before Thanks­processed. but the Teamsters will dining halls did not alter that right. than 1500 staff employees just to
queen. giving, there has been no attempt
not allow this to happen. The The employees of the dining halls
Naturally, we would like to hear influence a group of 21 against to even examine the unit. A list is 
University is not afraid of dealing have always had and continue to joining a union.
from her! posted in Flanner Hall, where we 
with the NLRB decision on a have the right to unionize. The Increased benefits result from
Rogers Kirk live, for people whose heating units 
bargaining unit; it :is the Teamsters Teamsters did in fact file a petition detailed studies and are imple­
Box 1000 also do not work. At the present
who are causing the present long in November 1977 to represent the mented as the economics of the
Steilacoom, Washington, 98388 time this list has 18 room numbers
delay. We believe that it is dining hall employees of SAGA situation permit. Over a year ago, 
on it. Personally, we know of four 

important for the Notre Dame Food Service. The day before the a Staff Benefit Committee was 
units that have been out as long as

family to understand that the NLRB hearing on this request, the formed to review benefits and 
ours. With the temprature drop­

University is moving with all Teamsters withdrew their petition. make recommendations. The
A tribute ping to near zero outside, . it !s be
deliberate speed in this matter. but This was the second time (the awarding of Blue Cross/Blue 
coming unbearably cold tnstde. 

an early resolution of the issues is petition to represent some of the Shielf benefits to employees re­
We have to sleep under mounds of 

being prevented by a unilateral laundry employees was also with­sulted from this review. The
to hard work blankets to keep warm. Then when 
action of the Teamsters. drawn by the Teamsters) that the Committee continues its work on 
we wake in the morning, our

The issues involved in t/Je Unfair union has indicated employee in­more complex issues such as 
window is coated with a sheet of ice

Dear Editor: Labor Practice charge and the terest to unionize, but then can­improvement of the Staff Retire­a quarter of an inch thick! It isI would like to express my thanks University response to the charges celled the election proceedings. 
ment Plan. ridiculous to think that a Universityto Gene W oloshyn and Sonny are as follows: It should also be noted that of this size cannot provide it's
Schramm who worked so hard and throughout the entire period of These are very trying times for students with adequate heat.
diligently on the presentation of the I. CHARGE: The University union activity not one employee has Notre Dame and we ask for your . We have called the housingWilliam Windom show last Tues­threatened to terminate 21 lost his or her job. In the transition patience and understanding. The 
authority in an attempt to rectify

day night. The show itself was ... groundskeepers to prevent the at the dining halls, all employees present delays are frustrating to the problem, but three calls toentertaining. and if it were not for group from unionizing. retained their jobs. The University employees and to University offi­them have proved fruitless. TheyGene, Sonny and other members of ANSWER: The Teamsters al­has been extremely tolerant of cials alike. The cause of these only tell us that there is one man,the Social Commission it never ready had filed a ULP on this issue. union activity on campus, even to delays is the Teamsters Union, and from Honeywell, for the entirewould have been a reality! By mutual agreement between the the point of accepting abuses by we must abide by the delays campus to fix heating units. 
Thanks for all your hard work! University and the Teamsters, and some employees in conducting because the union's choice to cause We are now turning to TheTomGryp with the a_pprovall of the Regional union business on University time. them is protected under the law. 
Observer, asking them to print this 

Student Union Director Director of the NLRB. the ULP was We also want to assure everyone letter, in hopes that the power ot 
withdrawn by the union. The m. CHARGE: The University that the University will reject any 
the press may finally spur some 

resolution ofthe issue was a good announced increases in salary and compromises with the Teamsters 
action. We do not pay $1400 a year

faith act by the University and the employee insurance benefits for which it believes will sacrifice the 
to freeze to death in our room! We 

University has stood by its com­January 1, 1978 and January 1, interests of any employee for the 
don't want a future Observer


Refuting the 
mitment in this matter. Nothing 1979 in the midst of union activity. sake of expediency. Each member 
headline to read "Two Students

has changed to justify having this ANSWER: The University an­of the Notre Dame family is 
Freeze To Death In Room". Please 

charge filed a second time. nounced increases in salaries and important to us. 
Help!


charges 
benefits as a result of many studies 
Matthew F. Bronyusky

n. CHARGE: The University in and proposals instituted prior to Thomas J. Mason 
RlcJaard w. White 

To the Faculty, Staff and Student subcontracting out its dining halls a:ny union activity. Further, antici­Vice President for Business Affairs 
8:ZOF1anne1 

Body of the University: did so to prevent unionization of pated increase in the Federal University of Notre Dame 
DOONESBUIRY by Garry Trudeau
As we begin the new semester, it seems appropriate to issue an update on the status of union activities relative to the Interna­tional Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and 
Helpers of America (Teamsters).· As you may recall, the five days of hearings before the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) to deter­mine the proper size of the bar­gaining unit were held between October 26th and November 2nd, 1977. The University expected that the NLRB would issue its deter­mination within a short period following the conclusion of the hearing. but no decision has yet been issued.--!£be-University-has·­







... 1978
s~---ltu.hueL.llllo~b!.lllst.We~rv.L'IeiiUrL________:T:..::u:.:::.:eS::::;d.~yl January 31 I 


'. 
•. ,! ,. J-\. . ·, 



.. 
·­

... 


Above and right: Students found buildings and trees convenient for jumping into or climbing out of the deep snow drifts. Three ski trips were cancelled over the weekend but not everyone gave up easily. 1 



The Blizzard Break·: 
As winter sponsors a brief respite from academia, people discouer uarious ways to use their new-found leisure time. 
[Photos by Ron Szot and Doug Christian] 
Heavy winds'se'aled uff buildings with drifts as high as five feet or more. 


Tuesday, January 31, 1978 the observer 
* 

Ji'b 
·~ 



,--------...
-------------------------~---------­
Tuesday, january 31, 1978
8 
the observer 

Letters to a Lonely God 
I Wanted You To Hear His Name 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

Last night, in the chapel at Moreau Seminary, I said goodbye until eternity to a friend whom I have scarcely said hello to in the past dozen years. Of all friends made in a lifetime, I loved him as one of the most special. He was a Holy Cross priest over twenty-five years ordained. He had been sick for years and years, and on Sunday evening, he made the journey into light inaccessible. Having myself been sick with him in the same community infirmary during an autumn, summer, and spring­time about twelve years ago, knowing how he felt about things, I felt it was a kindness not to bother him with visits. I didn't love him less, or feel that he loved me less, because I never saw him. I knew he needed to be by himself to deal with the daily disasters of his faltering flesh. During the eight months of my own illness back then, Jim--along with our nurse, Sister Dolorida --was the dearest chap on earth to me. In a world troublesome with fear and grief and loss. we wounded creatures helped each other. Jim was the friend and minister of the possible and familiar, being in himself a world that made me feel comfortable. As he himself said: "Each of us has only had the other"; and as much as we loved our fellow priests and brothers who were also patients, they had grown old while we were still (relatively) young. 
Kneeling at Jim's casket last night: grieving for his sufferings, mourning his death, remembering his rich, hearty laughter, I thought to myself, "All of him 
So I call Jean about a week before the break and she comes to the phone giggling, or burping. I couldn't really tell because there was so much noise coming from the room I could barely distinguish her voice. 
"Hey, what's going on in there?" I screamed. "0~, nothing," she said, "just a little party. "A party? A party for what? I thought we had a date for tonight." 
"Oh," she dully answered, trying to suppress a nervous laugh. "Urn, well it's my birthday and we're having a little party 
and... " 
"Little party? My God it sounds like all of St. Mary's is in there with you. Look could you tell them to quiet down a bit I can barely hear you." 
"What?" 

"Tell your friends to quiet down," I yelled at the top of my lungs. "I can't hear you. Got that, 'I can't hear you.' " 
"oh, okay. Hey you guys quiet down," she shrilly requested into the phone. "Jean, not me the ... wait a minute have you been drinking?" 
"Well, it is a party you know." 
"Look. I don't care about that do you... ?" "Hey, you guys. leave me alone.'' "Guys, what guys? You've got guys in 
the room? Listen what the hell is going on in there?" I was beginning to get a little annoyed as well as ashamed at myself for being willing 
to undergo all this nonsense just for a date. 
It also began to dawn on me that Jean and everyone at the party was trying to have fun at my expense, for I now heard shouts of encouragement as well as cries of derision in the background. 
"No Dom," she replied slightly exasper­ated, "there arc no guys.! mean my, you know, friends." 

Agreatpeal of laughter arose at the other end atter this reply. It sounded feminine, but feminine or not I realy felt very foolish I shifted the receiver from by left hand to my right hand and rubbed my very sweaty palm on my jeans. 
" Well, happy birthday anyway. You're what about sixteen now.?" 

"What?" she asked distractedly. "No, I'm what? ... what do you mean?" I was being too subtle. I decided to be honest. 
"Look, I really enjoy going out with you and .. .'' Someone had started to push buttons on the phone. "What the hell is that? Can you stop playing around for just one second? And get those cretins away from you. Will you? For just a second?" 
More giggling. • , ,., , , , , 
that lives belongs now to the neighbor­hoods of glory. How he must be enjoying himself. I wonder which of the everlasting ecstacies he is shivering with at this moment?" Very often, you see, in conver­sations, I have tried looking into heaven over Jim's shoulder, seeing it with his kind of imagination. "There are principalities and powers," he would make me under­stand; "there are nine choirs of angels, and we can't even begin to imagine what they are like." Yet, stirred by the fantasies he could arouse, I would try to guess what a Trinity looks like, or the mystery of existence of the Word made Flesh. He would say: "It's no good, you know. You just can't do it." Still, his affect on me would be such that I would keep on trying. Now, with Jim gone to heaven, I can't resist the image of him, bouncy with delight, at the sight of Aristotle and the Blessed Virgin being Greek and Jew together, or picturing him saying to St. Thomas: "Somehow I thought you would be thinner. Do you still think your treatise on the sacraments was as unworthy as straw?" 
This--please understand--is my imagina­tion working overtime, not Jim O'Hallor­an's. Running his hand through his hair, he might comment merely "Borscht!" But in my experience of him, he felt at ease with dogma, and he made me feel it as a living truth on which men would be judged. I have always felt faith and fear in him as though, in his hours by himself, he had looked more closely than most other men into the heart of light and the darkness. Last night as I prayed for him in the Moreau chapel, I had the sense of him being vitally alive and alone no longer, and none of his suffering seemed important since he had inherited joy. I touched his hands, cold and folded together. _I felt comforted that death could not take all of him. All that marble texture under my fingertips seemed remote from the adven­tures that Jim is beginning. 

~ ~, felt comforted ~ that death could not take all of him." 

~~~~Hallora7s 
life. His gifts were such great gifts; he should have belonged to this community of Notre Dame as one of its great scholars or teachers or counsellors. We expected that of him when he was ordained. God should not have given him such extraordinary talents, we thought, if Jim was going to waste his best energies being ill. Yet God alone knows why He gives the gifts; without so fine a mind and so compassion­ate a heart, Jim could not have lived so intensely. Mortality claimed him bit by bit, taking away steadily the health of his body. 
The Rage of the Sex Pistols 
. . -t....,,,.,.,_,_, 1'.,.,.. ~.l'.t-.~.,.,_,_ ... ., •" ,,.~..~~-~~.. _...,{' ~'~-~11.1*.. !' -·-·-•. P.:A.fl./'.1'~ [I~·-~ 
"Dom, I can't talk , I have to go." "Well, that's in seven weeks. You're telling me to call you in seven weeks. Gee that's a long time. Can you stand the wait?" 
Someone began playing with the buttons again. "Dom," Jean began to laugh, "I've got... " 
The person playing with the phone, obviously bored, had decided to disconnect us. Hell, it could even have been Jean. I felt like a moron. 
What really peeved me about the whole incident though, was the fact that I had been humiliated by a girl I really didn't like very much. She wasn't good looking, nor was she intelligent. Hell, when you came right down to it she was just a small and obnoxious creep. So just who did she think 
she was, treating me the way she did!" 
I considered going over to her little "party" and making a scene, but after the way she had just treated me I figured she didn't deserve such a treat. I wanted to spit right in her face, rip her clothes to pieces, burn her room to the ground ... 
No, that wasn't enough to pacify my rage. I wanted to raze all of St. Mary's and send all those girls running home. At that moment it was really my sincere wish that the sun would go out and all life on earth would cease. 
I settled for a beer and ripping the phone from the wall. 
Tlfu Sex Pistols will not settle for a beer. Matter of fact they won't settle for anything. They can't. They hate every­thing. That's right, everything: mom, dad, God, country, girls. They even hate themselves! It's true. They had to fire a 
member of their own band, bassist Glenn 
Matlock. because he kept trying to strangle the other guys in the group. 
"We didn't mind that so much," confessed lead singer and guiding light J~hnny .~otten, "but he refused to play wtth us. 

You couldn't really blame Glenn for venting his frustration on the Pistols. The quartet was hardly a money-making opera­tion while Glenn was a participant. This was not because the band was unpopular in England. but because they were not allowed to play anywhere in the entire country. They ahd been banned from performing as a consequence oftheir use of obscenities on a TV talk show and their release of a single, "God Save theQueen," rushed into the stores just in time for the Queen's Silver Jubilee. Probably the most virulent piece of vinyl ever manufactured, the recored featured Her Majesty on the jacket with a safety pin in her nose and lyrics !~belling her a fascist and an animal. 
It rocketed to number one in England although it was banned from all radio playlists. No concert hall in England would now book them and those outside the country that might have were scared off by the band's practice of cheerfully goading their audience into destroying the interior of every auditorium in which they played. 
If that wasn't enough the Pistols' contract with their record company was terminated (after having pocketed the profits from "God Save the Queen," of course) and bassist and co-founder Matlock quit. You couldn't really blame him. 
A & M, an American label took a chance and signed them, but the company tore up the contract a record two hours after signing them when they vomited all over an executive office and tried to rip the clothes off a secretary. 
With that as a backdrop, the Pistols are touring the country now and even though they have obviously decided to commit professional suicide by choosing to play only four cities in the U.S., (the place they really need to break big if they are going to survive), the rock press has been going But always the mind and the heart, intense 
and passionate, were left to suffer the 
indignity and humiliation of a physical 
frailty not subject to commands or orders. 
Finally, when the flesh failed altogether, 
Jim's soul was left alone to bring its 
intensity home to God. 
Death, when it comes to some people's lives, seems like an end. For Jim O'Halloran, it seems like a beginning. Never before, at any time, have I ever felt life as a preparation for inheriting life. Maybe because I loved him, I feel he has joined the immortals. Maybe because God loves him, I know--as surely as dogmas are truths that men are judged upon--that Jim has inherited an everlasting kingdom. 
I wanted you to know about Jim O'Halloran. Because he was a great man, I wanted you to know him as a teacher and counsellor. Because he wasn't ever well enough to tell you himself, I wanted you to hear his name. That's the reason I wrote this column: I wanted you to hear Jim O'Halloran's name. He was my friend, and I loved him very much. Telling your friend's name is not too much to do for him. In an easier world,· he could have become one of the great traditions of the Notre Dame campus. 
"Letters to a lAmely God" usually appears In the Friday Issue of the Observer. However, due to weather conditions, last Friday's Issue was canceUed and the column was carried over to today. 


by dom salemi 
nuts over them. They're even getting TV 
' 

coverage. Uh, sort of. That is if you consider reports on the state of disarray I they leave their hotel rooms in as video 
~ I 

coverage. 
I 

Butthe real reason they're getting all this attention, in spite of all their animosity, in spite of the fact that their new bassist Sid Vicious just learned to play the thing two weeks ago, is because they are one of the greatest rock and roll bands ever to grace the genre. If you don't believe me check out their debut lp on Warner Brothers. It's a good 'un. The songs are "infectuous, boisterous and fast-paced and the perform­ances are simply searing. Steve Jones stinging guitar positively soars in and out of the dense mix and Paul Jones' drumming provides the propulsive, churn­ing energy that is need to give the cuts a crazed, anarchistic feel. 
It is really Johnny Rotten's show in the end and let me tell you he gives quite a performance. I've never heard anybody sing with such unbelievable rancor and arrogance. He really seems to hate every­
[ continued on page 3 I 
M 
0 
L 
A 
R 
I 
T y 
.. 

WoiJ THIS SA/ow sro~J1 15 UNB£LI£VABLF-Til£ WoRsT 6/J[ oF l}f£ CEA!liJF.Y. 
THE SNOw f,fEP:s PIWIG 
UP-AND TilE SN~W DRIFTS A/Sf 5o DEEP 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, January 31, 1978 the observer 
9 

Off-Campu·s students outlast storm 
by Marian Ulicny antennas in snow," according to 
Senior Staff Reporter senior Lou Groden. Students 
began shovelling them out Monday 
in anticipation of classes resuming, 
Despite dwindling food supplies, but the job proved fruitless in many cars buried in the snow. and cases. "We're parked on a side occassional boredom. off-campus street that they haven't plowed yet, students managed to outlast the '78 so even if we do get the cars out blizzard without major inconven-there is no place to go. They can iences. ooen school Tuesdav. but we won't 
Many students stood in long be able to drive there." senior Pat lines for groceries when such local Tarpey remarked. food stores as E&L. Krogers. and Walking was the primary means Thrifty Mart opened for emergency of transportation for most off-cam­hours over the weekend. Because pus students. "We've done more of a high demand. staples such as walking this past weekend than bread. milk. eggs and butter were we've ever done in our lives." often limited in quantity to each Tarpey exclaimed. customer before supplies ran out. Once paths through the waste­
"By Friday. the grocery stores high snow were made. access to near us closed. so after that we food stores and friend's apartments were kind of hurting since we was relatively easy. Some students usually only keep enough food who ventured out encountered around to last a day or so." senior numerous surprises. "W,e were Pete Tobben. who lives on Corby out walking to see what things were St.. stated. "We just had to cut like out on Ivy Road. The snow was back a little. like using meat for two really high. but we didn't realize to feed four. but it wasn't too bad." how high until I tripped over 
Cars at Campus View apart-something sticking out of the snow. ments and .elsewhere in South It was a mailbox." graduate 
"We were out Thursday night and saw an ambulance stuck in the snow on Route 23," Shelagh Crook, St. Mary's senior, stated. "There was a woman in labor inside who was trying to get to a hospital. They brought a Blazer and she changed cars, but it got stuck too. We told her she could come back to Campus View with us, but they finally got the Red Cross to come and get her out. 
No students reported major utili­ty problems except an occassional flickering of the lights in Campus View. However. the oil supply "could become a serious considera­tion." according to Tobben. "We are bound to run out sooner or later in the house, and if we need it, I don't know how thev'llll'et it to us. All the alleys around us are blocked." 
Leaking roofs forced Carroll and her roomates to "put pans every· where." Senior Sean Coleman's housemates shovelled their roof to stop the drips in their living room. 
In addition to their own houses, cars. Ricky Flores, senior, and his housemates made eight pots of soups for their elderly neighbors. 

Besides volunteer work, students found time to enjoy themselves. Groden and six friends tied them­selves together with "life lines" for a Thursday night expedition to the Senior Bar. It took them an hour to hike "from Campus View to the University outskirts. Other stud­ents donned backpacks and skis to patronize area liquer stores. Crook carried gallons of paint from Cam­pus View to Stepan Center to work on the SMC off-campus booth for Mardi-Gras. Flores and his house­mates held a pajama party with dinner and charades Thursday night. Television. card games. backgammon. and Monopoly were other popular diversions. while Campus View residents used their balconies for porch diving into the snow drifts below. 
While most students claimed they were ready to go back to classes. no one found the unexpec­ted vacation overly tedious. "h phasized. "It was interesting to see how well you could get along with other people, especially with such close quarters. Everybody just pitched in and helped other people out." 
Marks to speak about the CIA 
John Marks. executve director of the Center for National Security Studies, will speak on C.I.A. involvement on college campuses. tonight in the Library Auditorium at 7 = 3; p.m. 
Marks is co-author of the centro­versial book. The C.I.A. and the Cult ·Of Intelligence, which con­tends that the C.I.A. mechanism abroad pose~ a threat to democratic ideals. This book was subject to 
U.S: government censorship. 
Marks is making the nation-•vide tour to mobilize support against the 
several students helped area resid-brought people closer together,'' C.I.A.'s "secret presence on cam­Bend were buried "up to their student Pat Carroll claimed. ents shovel driveways and buried SMC senior Julie Pelletiere em-pus.'' His public interest activities
t---------.;.._________....,.....,.___.___________.___________________-t are specifically aimed at informing 



The TI-57. The super slide-rule that'll get you into programming... fast and easy. 
Even ifyou've never programmed before. 
For the student who re­quires slide-rule functions, the TI-57 delivers an exceptional combination of advanced mathematical and statistical capabilities. From functions such as trig, logs, powers, roots and reciprocals ...to mean, var­iance, standard deviation and much more. 
And as long as you're in the market for a super slide-· rule calculator, why not buy one that can also put the power, speed and convenience of pro­gramming at your disposal? 
Programming a calculator 

simply means giving it a logical set of instructions for accom­plishing what you want it to do. Programming enables you to solve lengthy and repetitive problems 
quickly by sub-· stituting new vari­ables into the set of instruetions which· you 


have al­
ready entered into the machine. -The end result is more effi­
cient use of your time in prob­lem-solving. 
All this and mor~ is ex­plained in our unique, illus­trated, easy-to-follow guide­book, "Making Tracks Into Programming." This 200-page book comes with the Tl-57. It contains simple, step-by-step instructions and examples to help you quickly learn to use programming functions to make your problem-solving faster, more accurate and fun. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ~ 
••• INNOVATORS IN. PERSONAL ELECTRONICS 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
@) 1978 Texas Instruments Incorporated 
·INCORPORATED

I .,..._...: .. ~' I 
students that the C.I.A. allegedly uses professors and students as "cover" for clandestine intelli­gence operations, 
Mark's speech is sponsored by the Academic Commission. Ad­mission is free. 

SMC frosh meet 
by Molly Woulfe Staff Reporter 

The freshman formal, a weekend in Chicago, and a ski trip were the main topics discussed at a St. Mary's freshman class meeting last Thursday night in the Regina basement auditorium. 
The formal will be held April 14, most likely in Michigan. A theme pertaining to spring will be deter­mined later this week. Freshman Council members are planning to niake an agreement with a taxi service or arrange car pools to transport students to the site of the formal. 
A bus trip to Chicago for two days of shopping and sight seeing has been slated for the weekend of Feb. 17-19. More information will be distributed later, 
For outdoor enthusiasts. a ski trip to Crystal Mountain in Michi­gan has been tentatively scheduled for Feb. 24-26. A $35 charge will cover lodging, unlimited skiing on Saturday and Sunday, and dinner on Saturday night and breakfast on Sunday. Freshmen without skis may rent them for $15 extra. 
"A Time To Be Me" is the theme of a brief retreat offered to all SMC freshmen on Feb. 12 from 3 to 7 p.m. in the Regina basement auditorium. Fr. Edward Krause, of SMC Campus Ministry, will offer Mass and prompt discussion groups. A buffet dinner will be served afterwards. 
"We're striving to make this second semester the best socially, athletically, and spiritually for the freshmen,'' commented Adri Tri­giani, Chairperson of the Freshman Council. "We're their representi­tives, and we want to bring them all together." 
The other officers of the council 
include assistant chairpersons 
Mary Ellen Maccio and Kathy 
Sweeney, Angie Brown, trc:asurer; 
and Marte Megargle, secretary. 
Council members are Mary Beck­
man, Donna Bellock. Margie Bras­
sil, Lisa Brinkman. Tricia Burke, 
Missie Cannon, Susie Eckelamp, 
Ann Grzybowski, Mary Beth Han­
nigan. Mary Lauber, Tina Michas, 
Barb Schmuckal, Catherine Shaun­
essey, Beth Toomey, and Eileen 
White. 
The council meets every other Sunday in the Student Govenunent otf~ee in the basement of Regina Hall. AU freshmen are invited to 
attend. .~r:•:~'ifli.J. ~/toM 
10 the ObServer Tuesday, january 31, 1978 


Tours Germany 
Prof studies German terrorism 
by Ann Bachle watching to see how Germany U.S.," Kommers noted. But in noise." Kommers pointed out that th~ 
Staff Reporter deals with it, because their reaction Germany the situation is different, The question of why this minor­terrorists are not born and raised a! will have important implications in and the law has created a dilemma ity of terrorists and sympathizers criminals. "They come from mid­other countries." for the goverment. has so rapidly developed in Ger-dle-class backgrounds,'' he noted 
The incidence of terrorism in He believed this was especially "They can't declare the Com­and are thus not like commo '' true ofFrance, but noted that since munist Party illegal because it many is a puzzling one. Although criminals.
West Germany today, including its 

Germany is just go frequently discussed ''The terrorists in Germany ar
causes and effects, was the main "West perhaps our would underground and during the 
closest ally," the United States is cause more trouble. But then how tour, no clear-cut answers different from groups like the PLOfocus of interest during a two wee~ also concerned about the German can they penalize someone for emerged. who have an obvious cause fotour of Germany last month by 
Donald P. Kommers, professor of government's reactions to terro­belonging to a legitimate organiza­"It's a very complex question," which they're fighting. But what i. rism. tion?" he said. stated Kommers. He cited several the German terrorists' objective?'
Government and international stu­

"One purpose of our visit was to Kommers also mention the prob­popular explanations such as the Kommers wondered what thdies at Notre Dame.. 
assess the effects of terrorism on lem of whether Communist party lack of jobs for students after they terrorists will do, now that so man 
Kommers and seven other prof­

German-American relations,'' me:-nbership actually proves disloy­finish studies, distaste for today's of their leaders are dead or behin essors representing a number of Kommers said. "I don't feel it is alty to the constitution, and com­consumer-oriented society, and ab­bars. He predicted that if Ger 
American Universities visited sev­

hampering relations at all." mented on the similarities between sence of spiritual concerns. many's economy should take eral German cities, including Fran­
He did note, however, that much Germany today and the U.S. during "Germans are generally more downward turn, terrorists activitie~ kfurt. Bonn, Hamburg, Berlin and criticism has been levelled against the McCarthyism era of the early ideological than Americans," said may increase, and may involve• 
Munich during the study tour. The 

Germany in the press for its 1950's. Kommers. "But today in Germany groups from the right as well as th€ professors, all members of the handling of this problem. Kom­Other laws have been passed in there i~ no nationalism, idealism, left ends of the political spectrum, Conference group, were guests of mers found this somewhat distur­the last two years in direct re­or any other cause, like ending "But I have faith in German the German government. 
bing because "it's easy to criticize, sponse to the trials and imprison­poverty or racialinjusticein~merica, democracy," Kommers declared.' 
serves

Kommers, who also as but I think the Germans deserve ment of some of the Baader to which the young can truly "This is a trying time for Germany, 
director of the Notre Dame Law 

some praise for the restraint and Meinhof gang, a notorious German commit themselves." but I am happy to report that, aftet School Center for Civil Rights, has responsibility· they have demons­terrorist group. Although Kommers sees this as spending two weeks there discus­
long been intersted in German 

trated." One such law provides for re­a possible explanation for the sing the situation with many lead· 
affairs and has written several Much discussion during the two moval of the defendant from his apparent disenchantment of the ing Germans, I find Germany'5books dealing with German law 

weeks focused on recent anti-ter­own trial if his actions are interfer­students, he admitted it did not institutions durable, its govern­and politics. 
rorist legislation in Germany. ing with courtroom procedure. explain why only a small minority ment unshaken, and on the whole, 
''The purpose of the visit was "Some of my colleagues, as well as Another allows for all material used were affected by this phenomenon. Germany is alive and well." mainly to inform us about the many of the Germans we spoke for defense of terrorists to be German's own views on terrorism with, are concerned that some of openly inspected. 
and the steps they have taken to these laws may infringe on civil A third, and very controversial, 

Volunteers l:lelp elderly
sombat it,"' Kommers explained. liberties," Kommers commented. law passed in 1976 bars imprisoned To achieve this end, the profes­One such law is the so-called terrorists from any contact with the [continued from page 3] ./ ­
she said. sors met with both state and Berufsverbot passed in 1972, which outside world. This includes sus­"It got to the point where everyone One 1933 Notre Dame alumnus
federal officials as well as law and requires all candidates for civil pension of all oral and written started calling us," he said. 
called for assistance and later

political science professors from service jobs to take a test of loyalty communication as well as contact called Anderson, "crying for joy."various German Universities, and with families and each other. 
to the constitution. Anyone who According to Ryan, the town­"That made the whole thing worth­
representitives from several news­was or is a member of the Komers feels these laws indicate houses were the group's number while,'' Anderson stated. papers and magazines. Communist party would, for exam­Germany may. be over-reacting to one priority, because they were 
The volunteer program termi­

"Terrorism is a very important ple, not" pass." terrorist activities. "There's a real covered with six to eight foot drifts nated yesterday since school for issue in Germany today,"Kom­"This law would probably be atmosphere of intimidation," he of snow. It took eight hours for ten ND students began today. mers noted. "The whole world is termed unconstitutional in the observed. "But at the same time, volunteers to shovel out the com­
it's not a police state. Internal plex on Sunday.
• security spending has really been Yesterday a large group ofJol.nt ef'6orts keep ND go1ng stepped up. and offices air-volunteers walked to St. Joseph's Judo Club trains 
1 and ' / ports are obviously heavily guard-hospital to dig out the parking lot. 
ed, but life goes on." Five or six volunteers met a vehicle The Notre Dame Judo Club will[continued from page 2] floors were clean and all the trash Of students at West German 
from Goodwill industries which hold a two-week trainer instruction said Carl Webb, janitor at Alumni was bagged and lined up by the universities, some 6 to 10 percent picked them up to help them shovel program beginning tomorrow.Hall, "not many. Only 15 people door ready to be taken out." belong to extreme left-wing organi­out the area around the Goodwill Classes will run for approximatelypunched in today." Webb was Richard Head, Morrissey custod­zations, according ·to Kommers. building. one hour on Monday's Wednes­
prompted to come to work this ian, reported similar conditions in these groups include Communists, Kellee Nash, a SMC junior, of­day's and Thursday's at 7 p.m. inmorning out of a sense of duty. "I his hall. Like other maintenance Maoists and others, but they all fered to stay overnight with any the ACC wrestling pit. 
saw the Maryland game on TV, personnel, it was Head's first day have a common goal, says Kom­handicapped or elderly person, The purpose of the sessions is tSunday and I saw all the toilet back on the job since Thursday at mers, which is to see the present but she did not receive any calls. "I instruct several new trainers in th~ paper that was being thrown and I 10 a.m. when all the workers left in system destroyed. mostly helped shovel out," she rudiments of Judo and first aid asthought 'My gosh--my toilet paper­a blizzard. According to Grace Hall Debate during the two-week tour said, adding that one 89 year-old well as to provide an opportunityI only left them with six or seven janitor John Malloy, they were let frequently centered on these stu­man wanted to help her shovel. for physical training and condition­rolls.' '' out just in the nick of time. "I dent groups, comprised not of "His wife gave me some milk and ing. Three to five trainers will thenJ
Fortunately, reported Webb, barely got my car out of the parking 
active terrorists but of people cookies instead," she said. be selected to aid in the instruction students at Alumni had cleared lot," he said. sympathetic to terrorist activities. Nash stated that she volunteered of the regular judo class which will:
paths near the dorm so that fresh With busses now running and "Actually, very few Germans 
because the work gave her some­start Monday, Feb. 13.
supplies could be brought in Mon­most major thoroughfares in the sympathize with the terrorists," thing to do during the break from Anyone interested in registering.
day morning. ''They must have city cleared and open, most em­Kommers pointed out, "but those classes and homework. "It's just for the session should contact Curt cleaned while I was gone," he . ployees on both campuses were few who do, although they have no like you read in the stories that Hench at 8711 before the firstiadded happily. "The bathroom expected back to work today. political influence, make a lot of disasters bring people together,'' trainer class. 
TEST YOUR SKILL 
WIN FREE FOOD 


Flu, injuries plague students 
WHEN YOU PLAY 
by Ann Gales The ND Stu_dent Health Center frostbite, but several were treated Senior Staff Reporter reported that a considerable num­for minor injuries and sprains, the

FCDDFOR 
ber of students have been treated nurse said. 
This weekend's severe cold for the flu in the past few days, Director of St. Mary's Health couldn't kill the flu bug, as many although an infirmary nurse com­Services Verna Wood commented, St. Mary's and Notre Dame stu­mented that the outbreak "is by no "It seems like the students weath-' 

lAOUGAr 
dents spent all or part of the means of epidemic proportions." ered the weather pretty well--until. extended weekend in the infirmary. No ND students were treated for yesterday, when we started to get a
AT 


lot of flu cases." Wood stated that the SMC
SMC Snack Bar 
infirmary is presently overflowing with students suffering from the flu. High fevers and congestion are characteristic of the strain of flu that is going around, she noted. 
Wood also reported that over the weekend two St. Mary's girls were taken to St. Joseph Hospital with injured ankles, one of which turned 

ALL MAJOR SPORTS out to be a fracture. "In the past few days, Notre
ON 7FT T.V. 
Dame Security employees took no less than 18 students with sprained 

SHAKEY'S 

SUPER SUPPER ankles to the hospital for x-rays,"

FAMOUS 
according to Security Officer Jack Molder. Most of the students were

HERE'S HOW TO PlAY AND WIN: 5-7:30 MON -TUES -WED 
injured while playing in the snow,

r~ece1ve a Food For Thought game card w1th each purchase of 51 00 or more Pizza-Chicken· he said. 1nclud1r)g. PepSI-COlO Molder also stated that Security

·Spaghetti-Salad 

received a call during the powe can w1n Free Pensi. French·Fnes $21~61~1 failure on Sunday night about a gir 
Answer the questions correctly and you 

All You Can Eat

and Hamburgers in Pangborn Hall who was ex periencing difficulty breathing. "The student was rushed to St.
PLAY 'FOOD FOR THOLGHT' TODAY 
Joseph Hospital by an ambulanc that happened to be on campus a the time, and is o.k. now as far as know," he said. 


Tuesday, January 31, 1978 the observer 11 





RhOAP9]Th !~.~!~~~~~~~~-.e.!!~~ ~~!!~~~~ili•Briti•h·Am~
Rabat, Mal~ [_ • . e m e id Owen said that the talks with tions. . stormed out of a session claiming peace plan , that would bring the 
States and Br1ta1~ failed to per-Robert Mugabe and Joshua. Nkomo A senior aide to Mugabe srud he had been insulted by one of militant Patriotic Front into any suade black guerrilla ~ll:der~l y~-leaders of the militant Patriotic Carver's authority would make him Smith's envoys but resumed yes-black majority government. terday to abando~ t : 0 d 0? ,Y Front yielded no agreements on a virtual dictator. terday with only two of three The Rhodesian leader also wantsfiv~-year war agamst esia s major issues. Other provisions under dispute moderate leaders present. safeguards for the future of the white government and ac~ept a "The divisions are on important included the length and control.of a Smith sought the meetings to nation's 263,000 whites and repre­plan. for a peace~ul. settlement issues," Young told report1ers after cease-fire between the guemllas head off an imposed solution from sentation in any new parliment.
leadmg to black maJonty ru e. emerging from a two-hour morning and Rhodesian governme~t troops 
U.S. Ambassador Andrew Young conference on this Medikrranean and arrangements for a stx-month 

NOTICES 

Due to the 'Blizzard of '78', many prepaid classified ads which were scheduled to run In The Observer Friday or Monday have been moved back two issues. If your ad was timely and you wish to request a refund, please bring your receipt to The Observer office Thursday. Feb. 2 be­tween 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. Thank you. 
Dissertation, manuscripts, papers typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters. 287­4971. 
Accurate, FastTyping MRS. DONOHO 232-0746 Hours 8AM to 6PM. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Typing done, fast, accurate, reasonable service. Close to campus. Ph. 272-7866. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453. Phoenix, Arl· zona 85011. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at 1 percent monthly Interest. $2Q-150. 1 day wait. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 11:15-12:15. M-F. 
Volunteers needed for Recycling Pro­gram, 1·2 hours per week. Contact John Ryan, 8701 or 6413. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selactrlcs. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-{)8911. "When you want the Bast'' Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
Typing done. Reasonable rates. Call 8086 between 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
LOST I FOUND 
·u.t: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. ~-Please call Paul 8540. 
of keys by ACC Ice rink. Honda call ffl-{fl22, 234-8279 or Pro Shop for Thelma. 
Found: In LaFortune student center, 2 days before Christmas, avalualole writing Instrument. Call Marlbeth 3803 to iden· tlfy. 
Found: Pair of wire-rimmed glasses in a brown cigarette-type case on the road between the Library and O'Shag: Call 
8842. 

Lost: Brown plaid wool scarf Sat. night at Gulseppe's • very special Christmas present! Call 8132. 
Found: A black wallet behind Lyons Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed are an Indiana Driver's license, work 10 and Library Card. Call to Identify at 1715. 
Lost: Round 14K gold medal. Size of a quarter has face of sun with a crack on medal. Also a gold ltalla horn. Lost Thurs. Jan. 26 morning betweo~n Fisher & Dining Hall. Substantial reward! Call Mike 3010. 
WANTED 
One, two or three female roommates needed lor Campus View apartments. Call7060. 
4 DePaul tlx. together or 2pairs. Contact Chip, 309 Flanner. 
Nice phone number, Chip. 
1or 2B·ball Davidson Ga tlx. Call John at , 8209. 
1need 2 Ga Marquette tickets real bad. George 1248. 
House parent. Room & board & $85 per week. Tax free. Close to campus. Flexible hours. 232-4805. 
Needed: Somebody to take over my lease .. to share an apartment. Cheap. 2 blocks from campus. Ed 8886. 
1or 2 B·ball tlx for Marquet!la. Call6326. 
Need rtdefrom Mansfield, Ohio or along the turnpike back to NO • Sunday, Jan. 
29. Call Diane 7883. 
Need 2 Marquette Ga tickets. Call Diane 
7883. 
1 need someone to repair a Panasonic portable B &W TV. Will pay cost plus. Call Steve 288-0088. 
2 Marquette tix will pay reasonable sum of$$. Call1612. 
One roommate to share apartment at Campus View. Call Bill at 277-3509. 
Will pay your price for Ga Marquette tlx. Call7946. 
2 Marquette BB tlx. Call Don 233-8036. 
Help: Need Marquette tlx. Will pay good $. Call 283·8830. 
Am Interested in purchasing a bunch of tickets lor NO vs. Marquette game. Call John 283-3829. 
Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your price. Call Russ at sm. 
Need several Marquette tickets. Call Brtan at 272-5843. 
Need 1 GA ticket for DePaul game. Call Pete 6891. 
Need up to four GA tickets for ANY home basketball game. Preferably DePaul. Call 
Pat 1068. 
FOR SALE 
BSR turntable with walnut base, dust cover. Gall 7077. 
BIC 9111 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must •~1. Gall :1158. 




Skis -Rossignol Roc 550's with Salomon 505's-excellent condition. Dave ffl-4784 
Stereo for sale. Turntable, receiver, 8-track, speakers. Call Mike 232-()55(). 
19.6 Coachman Travel Trailer; like-new condition; sleeps 6; self-contained. $3300.00. Call after 6 p.m. 272-8308. 
3-4 bedroom quadlevel; family room with fireplace; stove, refrigerator. dishwash­er, humidifier; custon-made drapes; pro­fessionally landscaped; 5 minutes from Notre Dame. Low 5o's. Call after 6 p.m.272·8308. 
PERSONALS 
Lightweight Hotline -call 136;3 anytime night or day (preferably at 11 p.m.) and ask for Diane. 
' If you don't believe anyone goes to bed at 11:00, call Diane and wake her up. 
Diane -your birthday party was a smashing success; too bad you couldn't get up for it. Maybe next year. 
Regina 2 South is proud to announce the birthdays of three of their beloved members, Katy Riedle, Mary Ellen Gallagher, and Carol Schroer. Happy Birthdays! Love, The Gang 
Free birthday kisses...Contact Carol Schroer 5407. Don't let me be lonely. Clarence the Transvestite 
Dear Chris Eichorn, Thanks a lot. Jim 
Washburn D-28 guitar. 3 months old. $250. Paul 277-1874. 

Mary Phyllis ­1 want to go to believe me now?  your formal.  Do  you  
Jack  
MKB  

Congratualtions on your 650! But mostly, thanks for being around. HJ 
Wanted! Used acoustic guitar. Nylon. Immediately! Call Jim 3684. 
If you see Carol Schroer today give a kiss. But I won't say where!! Caesar 
Ann Torre­Don't mass with any green or blue eyed "Huggie Bears" 
Dear Liz, Happy birthday. John 

Frosh plan date night 
by Jana Schutt 
The Freshman Year of Studies has arranged three special Fresh­man Date nights with the coopera-, tion of the 100 Center, according to 1 Emil T. Hoffman. dean of Fresh­man Year. The date nights will be held on Feb. 7. 14 and 28. 
The nights will include transpor­tation to and from the 100 Center, a buffet dinner at the Ice House 
restaurant,. and a movie. 
According to the Freshman Year Office. it is impossible to announce in advance which films will be showing on these nights. They will be the regularly ·scheduled movies showing at the 100 Center on these Tuesdays. 
Cost of the special nights will be $5.00 per couple. Both members of the couple must be freshmen .. 
To attend one of the date nights, freshmen must come to the Fresh­man Learning Resource Center between 6:30 and 7 pm on the Thursday preceding the date. 
At this time they will submit their names to be part of a lottery. The lottery wiii he closed at 7 pm and 30 couples will be chosen at random to attend the date night. 
Freshmen may remain at the Learning Resource Center to hear the lottery names as they are chosen. or they will be notified by phone if their name is chosen. 
Also in the planning stages for the Freshman Class is a Freshman Formal to be held March 3. at the Century Center. Details wit be released in early February. 
island nation. The talks will transition to black nationalist rule. continue today. Late Sunday,. Nkomo an~ Mu-
Despite their intensive efforts, gabe served no~Ice that t?ett only Young and Owen acknowledged aim is to continue fightmg until that they failed to shift the Patriotic they have secured a total transfer Front leaders, who repre:sent an of power from Rhodesia's white estimated 20,000 guerrillas fight-rulers. ing inside and outside Rhodesia, •:ff the British _do no~ t~,row Mr. away from their pledge to oust Sm1th out, we will do it, N~omo Prime Minister Ian Smith's white told reporters. "The war wlll go government by force. on." 
The guerrillas, British delegates The internally-based moderates, said, rejected the British American who claim to represent the majority plan because of provisions giving of Rhodesia's blacks, opened nego­administrator designate Lord Car-tiations with Smith last December ver powers to oversee th<e transi-aimed at bringing about black tion, head the police and command majority rule and universal suff­the national army as well as rage. The talks broke off last week 

Two art exhibits open 
Two new art exhibits opened Dorothea Bilder is an associate Jan. 27 in the galleries at St. professor at Northern Illinois l!ni­Mary's. Serigraphs by Dorothy versity where she teaches pnnt­Bilder will be displayed in the making courses and life drawing. Hammes Gallery and the High Ms. Bilder has had 18 one-person
School Art Exhibition will be in the exhibits and has had her works Moreau and Little Thea1tre Gal­displayed in numero.us institutio~­leries. al, regional and national competi­
Works in the high school exhibi­tive exhibitions. She received a tion will come from the South Bend first prize in graphics in Spring­Community School Corporation field, Illinois in 1976. Her works 
with Adams, Clay, Riley, LaSalle, can be seen in more than 20 
North Liberty High Sch<~ls, the permanent collections from Texas Career Center and the Whitney to Maine. Young Academy represented. Ms. Bilder will give a silk screen 
Kenneth Geoffrey, coordinator of workshop at St. Mary's on Feb. 9 in 
fine arts for the school corporation, conjunction with her visit to the has coordinated the exhibit. The College for the artists' reception on display will include paintings, Feb. 10. drawings, ceramics, jewelry, weav­Both the Bilder and High School 
ings, fibers and mixed media. Exhibitions will be on display from 
Michele Fricke, Gallery coordin­Jan. 27-Feb. 27. The artists' recep· ator at St. Mary's, hopes that the tion will be Feb. 10, from 7-9 p.m. high school exhibit will become an in both galleries. annual event at the College. Works Gallery hours are Tuesday-Fri­from the South Bend art program day, 9-11 a.m. and 12:30-3 p.m. consistently place high in national and Saturday and Sunday, 12:30-4 high school competitions, accor­p.m. ding to Ms. Fricke. 
CDC format revised 
by Honey McHugh secutive meetings every two weeks beginning in early February. The recruiters schedule will be posted
The St. Mary's Career Develop­weekly for all registered studentsment Center (CDC) has taken on a to sign up for intervkws. 
new outlook this semester stated According to Twitchell, in addi­recently appointed Center coordin­tion to these programs, a bi-weekly
ator, Betsy Twitchell. "The CDC newsletter will be published featur­will continue to function as it has ing special events, recruiter andfor the benefit of all the students workshop schedules, as "ell asand the new programs will be occupational information. Tv. ,tchellinitiated to aid them in their future also intends to initiate informalplans," she continued. 
meetings within the halls conduc­Replacing former director, ted by members of the Students
Karen O'Neill, Twitchell is pres­Affairs staff and R.A. volunteers toently serving as coordinator of the introduce career planning dir~ctlyCenter in conjunction with her to the students.
position as director of McCandless "We are presently in the process Hall. "I believe I am in a unique of reorganizing the CDC library byposition to bring both dorm life and making the cross indexing systemcareer planning together," Twit­more efficient," continued Twit­chell stated, "This dual role will chell, "Mary Ann Daly, volunteerallow me to meet many of the coordinator and the R.A. volun­students needs on a more personal teers are attempting to make thelevel." 
library resources more easily acces­This semester the CDC will place sible to the students."
its primary emphasis for sopho­"My primary concern is that mores on choosing a major, for students from every class in alljuniors, the summer job program major fields of study realize the
and seniors will be aided in their importance of their future careerplans upon graduation. The same plans and utilize the resources theworkshop series will be offered Center has to offer them,'' Twit­again this semester in eight con­chell added. 
~!:=:====south Bend, Indiana 46601 ====::It 



12 the observer Tuesday, january 31, 1978 
Notre Dame plows Terra 
Notre Dame's Tracy jackson received 17 minutes of playing time in Sunday's battle with Maryland. The freshman forward responded with 11 points, most of which came during a crucial point in the second half. Because of his fine performance, jackson was named NBC's Most Valuable Player. 



Irish fencers prepare to defend national crown 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
Despite the poor weather condi­tions, the University of Maryland's basketball team arrived in South Bend to battle the Fighting Irish Even though the snow did not stop the Terrapins, Notre Dame's de­fense played a major role in halting the visiting cagers. 69-54. before a partisan student crowd at the ACC. 
The Irish tallied the first five point~. but the Terrapins came back to take an eight to five lead. The game was a back and forth struggle until with 8:13 left in the tirst half. Duck Williams connected from 20 feet to give Notre Dame a 23-15 advantage. 
But. Maryland demonstrated their poise by out-scoring the lri,.h ten to four in the next five minutes. At halftime. Notre Dame held a slim 31-28 lead. 
ln the first twenty minutes. Notre Dame connected on 42 percent of their field goal attempts. However. Maryland could only find the range on 39 percent. 
During the opening three min­utes after intermission. Notre Dame tallied 16 points to the Terrapins four. forcing Maryland to use two time outs. 
The tenacious Irish defense con­tinued to rattle the Terrapins with II minutes remaining in the game and holding a 49-31 edge. Notre 
by Paul Mullaney Sports Writer 
After the cancellation of Satur­
day's opener. coach Mike Decicco's 
fencers began defense of their 
national title this Saturday as they 
host Wisconsin-Parkside, Tri­
State, Celveland State and Bowling 
Green at the Athletic and Convoca­
tion Center. 
The Notre Dame swordsmen 
captured the 1977 crown in the 
A.C.C. last March. defeating New York University in the first fence­off ever in the history of the NCAA championships. The title wa':> the first in Irish fencing hbtory. 
When NYU All-American Miklos 
Benedek lost his final match to the 
Navv sabre man, the tourney ended 
with Notre Dame and NYU dead­
locked at 114 points. and a fence­
off was called upon to determine 
the champion. 
"Up until that moment that NYU 
lost that bout, we knew that there 

was nothing we could do about 
finishing second," recalls DeCicco. 
''That NYU loss gave us renewed 

vigor. renewed ambition, and we 
went into that final round with tht:' 
emotional edge. Our guys were 
higher than a kite." 
lri-.h gold medalists Mike Sulli­van and Pat Gerard. respective All-Americans in sabre and foil. defeated their fence-off opponents to plaee the coveted crown under the Dome. A loss by Gerard in that !>Ccond bout would have put the pressure on senior epeeist Tim Glas~. who had finished fourth in the competition to NYU's gold medalbt Hans Wieselgren. 
However. Gerard's 0-5 rout of Tom Valjacic. a foilist who had earlier beaten Gerard. sent the cc~wtic lri~h following into a mild uproar. For the first time in 44 years of Notre Dame fencing the blue-and-gold captured the collegi­ate championship. 
"We've had success over the years." enthused DeCicco, select­ed as last year's "Coach of the Year" by the American Fencing Coaches Association. "But the national title is something we've never had before. so obviously we take a great deal of pride in that achievement. 
"There is probably a large element of luck involved, especially in fencing, for any team to do what we did last year. We had very good fencers. They worked very hard and things broke our way from the day the season started unt!l we won 
• 

Dame went into a four corners 
offense. In the next eight minutes, 
the Irish worked their offense and 
just waited for the open shot. 
During that time, the Irish received 
several key baskets, including a 
slam dunk. from Tracy Jackson, the 
game's Most Valuable Player. 
In the closing minutes, the Irish 
maintained a comfortable margin. 
occasionally leading by as much as 
18 points. With two seconds left in 
the contest, Rich Branning scored 
the final markers of the game on a 
pair of free throws. The game 
ended with the Irish a sizable 
winner. 69-54. 
Notre Dame boasted four players in double figures. Branning led the Irish with 15 points, while Kelly Tripucka followed with 12. Jackson tallied 11 points. including nine in the crucial moments of the second half. and Dave Batton contributed ten. 
Larry Gibson led the Terrapins with 17 markers and Albert King added 15. Gibson also led Mary­land in rebounding with ten caroms. 
In the second half, Maryland only improved their field goal shooting to 41 percent. while Notre Dame jumped tq 51 percent. Maryland registered 34 rebounds as a team, while Notre Dame managed 32. 
The Irish appear to have gelled as a team and are playing well as a 
the national title. The luck we do something. because that shirt is enjoyed last year is something I starting to wear kind of thin." cannot explain." It might not take as much luck Coupled with the luck. naturally. this time around. however. as comes a great deal of superstition. both Sullivan and Gerard return to at least on the part of DeCicco. lead a solid Irish squad."We're retracing our steps from Foil is the strongest weapon. last year to this year. hoping that aecording to DeCicco. Gerard we'll repeat whatever we did right. ranks second on the all-time Irish I'm not that great of a coach to foil list. The senior from Norridge.determine exactly what won it for Ill.. has compiled a record of I LS-6 us. in his previous three years."My guys will tell you that I Strongly supporting Gerard is wear the same shirt. ric. shoes and senior Mike McCahey, a three-time so ou that I was wearing when we monogram winner. McCahey. who started this winning streak (now at posted a 28-5 record a year ago.67 matches). It becomes a psycho­was the Irish NCAA foil entrv in 
logical advantage for us. because 1976. The other position witi be our opposing coaches and teams filled by either junior Steve Salim-may remember that we look like the ondo or sophomore Andy Bonk. 
same team as last time. I'm with Ray Benson a strong possi­getting to the point where I better bility for seeing action. 
Tom Desmond:::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::=:=:=;=:=:::~=::::;::=:=:::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::=:::=:::::::=:=:::=:::=:::::=:::::::::::=:::::=:::=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:===:=:::::=:===:=:=:=:::=:=:::::::::::::: 
The Dallas Classic 
unit. The offense continues to flow until the shots open up. Notre Dame, as a team, accounted for 17 assists, while Maryland managed only seven. 
Sunday's victory marked the second consecutive win for the Irish against Maryland. That triumph was also the seventh straight for Notre Dame after dropping three of four over the semester break. 
The Irish have also been victori­ous in their last 21 games in a row at the ACC. Since February 1. 1973, Notre Dame has won 73 of 78 games in the ACC. 
"We were beaten by a better team," Maryland Head Coach Lefty Driesell commented. "We're having our problems this season and I just hope we can straighten them out." 
For Jackson, this game was something special. He was heavily recruited by Maryland and he and Coach Driesell attend the same 
church and are good friends. 
"The team just played well as a unit today." Jackson reflected. "It's a great victory. I was fired up 

today and 1 don't think anybody could have put me down." 

Irish mentor Digger Phelps was pleased with his team's perform­ance. but it is just another step. "Defensively, this was probably the best waive played all year." know we'll have a tough game in Tip-off for the contest with the Phelps stressed. This is win Philly against LaSalle Wednesday Explorers is slated for 9 p.m. in the number 14 and we need six more. I night." Palestra. 
Suilivan. sabre captain. owns the However. the addition of S\\e­highest all-time Notre Dame win-dish transfer Bjornc Vaggo is a 
ning percentage. losing only twice welcomed addition. Reccntlv in 102 makhes. Acknowledged as granted three years of eligibility h~· "the best sabre man in the the NCAA. Vaggo was ranked lOth countrv" bv his coach. the junior nation;lll~· in epee, Sweden's strong from ·Peah.ody. Mass.. has his weapon. ~ H1s ransferred credits sights set ont he 1980 Olympics. make him the equivalent of a He has been chosen All-American first-~eme~ter junior. Tom Cullum in caeh of his first two years. and Mike Carney will provide some Senior letterman Tom Edwards. dep!h. as both had winning years who wa!> third in sabre last vear last year in epee. with a 37-11 slate. will fence i~ the "That cliche that 'vou alwavs 1 number two spot. The wide-open find it more difficult to. stay on tZ)p 1 third position may be filled by than to get on top' in part is true." 1 either senior Larry Miller or fresh-noted DeCicco. ''I've never had I man Sal Muoio. that experience before of being on 
The graduation of All-Americans top. There'll be a little added 1 Tim Glass and Ed Fellows from pressure to try to duplicate last epee left that event largely on the ye:1r's feat." , shoulders of '7H captain Bill Kica Don't be surprised if the feat is •· and fellow senior John Strass. duplicated. 
1 


There isn't a football game this Saturday so I am at a loss for finding 
something to write about. If you can't write on something that is coming 
up. write about the past. That's a rule of sports writing isn't it? 
The Cotton Bowl was a dream, it really didn't happen. Storybook 
finishes are out of style. Fair play, hard work and that come-from-rags-to­
riches stuff doesn't sell anymore. Or docs it? I would sure like to own the 
replay rights around here, it'd probably pay for law school. 
Actually, I intended to write a few reflections about the Cotton Bowl and the whole Dallas excursion and then throw in some other varied observations. A sort of "potpourri" of thought. 
The best bars anywhere are those located on the edge of a college campus. (present area excluded) Although I didn't catch it first hand, the Up Your Alley watering hole proved my hypothesis right as far as S.MU's bars go. They have a late-nite competition there that has something ~n common with the football played in the Southwest Conference. The contestants wear cut-off shirts. That's right, cut-off shirts ... 
I had the opportunity to see a game the right way--in the student section--for the first time. Having spent four seasons as a statistician in the Notre Dame press box, I was lucky enough not to get a seat in the Cotton Bowl press box and joined some close friends amid the sea of green. Now I know why the Notre Dame student body is called the greatest in the world. After standing on a seat in earth shoes and screaming for the entire game, fatigue set in and thoughts of impending death soon followed. That was one game. How about tive games and then basketball season. It isn't easy to watch 1 game as one of the members of the greatest student body, but I guess that is why it's so great. 
The press box seems antiseptic in retrospect compared to the "real world" of the stands. The elements confront the fan, there aren't any free hot dogs or cups of coffee. But, the chance to yell and let out frustrations compensates for the physical inconveniences. The best line of the game was screamed in the third quarter by one well-lubricated student as he offered the world a bit of Rona Barrett-style gossip--'' Earl Campbell dates Bevo(the steer).'' That is a high-quality insult. 
The locker room after the game seemed like a political rally after the initial celebrating had ended. In the corners and every few feet in the middle of the spacious locker room stood the days heroes, Browner. Fry, 
Golic. Em·ick. Hughes, Huffman, Montana, Ferguson, Heavens. Bradley 
and Reeve all talking to members of the media and constantly reminding 
them of the reasons why Notre Dame was number-one. "I think we're 
number one... was never heard. Like a confident candidate the phrase 
was "I know we're number-one." Joe Montana put it best when asked to 
summarize the season. He simply replied "38-10". 
"The game will come down to the defense's ability to provide field 
position and breaks that will decide the contest. And, the Notre Dame 
defense has had a history of coming Up with the big performance in 
pressure games of the past." 
The above quote appeared in this column as a conclusion to my 
pre-Cotton Bowl analysis ... ! only wish I had been that accurate on my 
auditing final ...speaking of accurate, that is something the Basketball 
Irish are not when one speaks of free throws ... hitting 70o/o from the line on 
the season, it seams like Russian Roulette at the end of close games... so 
far the chamber has been empty, but what about the next time. 
With Bill Laimbeer still absent from his starting role it seems like Bruce Flaowers enjoys the return to the post-position as he has re-activated his left-handed jump hook. Gary Brokaw is back on campus putting the finishing touches on a sociology-economics degree... has he put together his bookstore b-ball team yet. The NCAA tournament becomes a surer thing each game and the closest first-round site is Purdue on March 11. But hold on, the sites only have to supply 250 tickets to each c schools ... that makes the Cotton Bowl Committee look like Santa Claus ... the regionals are at Dayton, Providence, New Mexico and Kansas ... the finals are in St. Louis...our leers are on the road this weekend at North Dakota and will be away the following weekend at Michigan ... the next home series is Februaryi0-11 against Michigan Tech...Notre Dame will host the National Catholic Tournament a week from Sunday, February 5th. 
The next home swim meet is Saturday, February 4 against St. Bonaventure. The Bengal Bouts will be held on March 5, 7, and 10 and the boxers started preparations last Monday. Bengals treasurer Mike Thomas tells me things eased up a bit Tuesday as the group did 900 jumping jacks, down 200 from the day before ...anybody have the Guiness Book of World Records? 
' 




