
Details revealed in ND/NLRB settlement 
by Mike Ridenour representing the Teamsters. Staff Reporter The agreement stipulates that Notre Dame terminate its contract 
Details of a tentative agreement with SAGA Inc. by July 1, he said. between Notre Dame and the The. University signed on SAGA National Labor Relations Board late last October at the height of 
(NLRB) were disclosed yesterday the groundskeeper controversy. 
,.1··. 
by Mike Lawrence, spokesman for Another point of the agreementTeamsters Local364. says Notre Dame "will not subcon­The five-point agreement, settl­tract any work or threaten to ing an unfair labor practices charge subcontract in order to discouragemade by the NLRB against Notre support or membership in Team­Dame, calls for the University to sters Local 364." 

terminate its contract for food The third point mandates that services with SAGA, Inc. and to the University "will not lay off or restore the Notre Dame Food threaten to lay off or otherwise Services to its former position. discriminate against the employees 
Lawrence said he received the in order to discourage employeesinformation yesterday by phone membership in a trade union.'' from an attorney in Indianapolis [continued on page 8] 
NO security accused 

Two ND students assaulted 
by John Gruesser ''All the information I've gathered squads--three male officers and indicates their (the Security of­one female. After entering the 24 
Two students were assaulted and ficers') actions were not justifiable. hour lounge, the officers told the one was arrested by Notre Dame I think the whole situation could male students to leave the hall. Security in an incident outside have been avoided, " Johnson Harsh words were exchanged Badin Hall last Saturdav at 3 a.m. stated yesterday. between the four male students 
The incident. involving 3 male The students involved in the and the Security officers. By the Security Officers and 5 male stu­incident said the trouble began time the students were outside, a dents, followed a disturbance in when four Badin residents and shouting match had developed Badin's basement. Notre Dame their four male friends entered the· between one student and a Security. Security Officers, called by the east entrance of the hall. They officer. A friend of this student Badin monitor, led the students were making noise and two of the was passing by, saw the shouting outside. male students were carrying beer, battle, and intervened. 
A shouting match and scuffle a violation of University policy. The passerby was thrown to the ensued in which two students, one The hall monitor contiscated the ground and struck on the head with of them a passerby, were struck by beer and told the students to go a long aluminum flashlight by an 

Have
a Security Ofticer. into the 24 hour lounge, the officer, the students said. One student wa!> handcuffed, students said. The monitor then · As two other Security officers threatened with formal arrest, and went into the television lounge were going for their nightsticks, 

summer,

taken to Security Headquarters. across the corridor from the 24 hour the remaining three students ND Security and Dean of Students lounge. One of the students an ----------------------------~
pressed against the officers in 
James Roemer refused to comment momentarily blocked her exit from effort to restrain them on the matter pending further the lounge. [continued on page 71 investigation. The students then moved into 
Observer Insight:
One of the assaulted students is the 24 hour lounge and closed the considering a lawsuit against the door--a violation of Badin Hall University and the Security Of­policy--and made a good deal of 

CLC emphasizes dorm life 

ficers involved in the incident. noise. At that point, the monitor 
Phillip Johnson, Student Govern­called Security and waited at her by Kathleen ConneUy would be taken care of by the At their March 17 meeting the ment security commissioner. inves­station. Senior Staff Reporter Off-Campus Commissioner in Stu­Board of Trustees accepted the tigated the incident this week. Security responded with two dent Government. social space proposal which con­
On Oct. 21. 1977, the Notre The CLC, in accordance with the tained specific directions for the Dame Board of Trustees voted to by-laws adopted at its first meet­renovation of residence rooms in abolish the Student Life Council ing, is composed of six rectors, Howard, Fisher, Pangborn, Sorin, (SLC) and replace it with the three from the North quad and and Morrissey, 
Campus Life Council (CLC) as three from the South, and four hall These were determined to be the proposed by former Student Body vice-presidents, two from the North dorms with the least available President Dave Bender. quad and two from the South. social space and the most feasible 
When Bc:1der took office on Also included on the Council are building situation for correction of April 1, 1977, he immediately set the Student Body President, repre­that prob~m. According to the out to fulfill his campaign promise sentatives from the Hall Presi­proposal. the renovations will take 
to see that the SLC was discon­dent's Council and the Student place over the summer. tinued and replaced by a more Union, and two faculty members. Several other resolutons cleared effective body. These members are all required to the Council for presentation to 
The SLC had been established in attend the weekly meetings. Vice-President for Student Affairs> the late 1960's as the University's The Vice-President for Student Bro. Just Paczesny agreed to take solution to problems stemming Affairs and the Dean of Students into consideration a plan to keep from student unrest which existed attend every third meeting. Only LaFortune Student Center open at that time. at these executive meetings can twentv-four hours a day. 
In 1977, however. administrators resolutions be voted on. The other Paczesny asked for "a little and students began to voice doubts two meetings are working meetings working time·' to look into security about the ne'cessity of the SLC duriug which proposals are discus­requirements and other necessary since the .unrest of the 1960's had sed and amended. arrangements. To date. there has died down appreciably. Others felt If a proposal is passed it is then been no further comment from him that University President Fr. Theo­presented to the Vice-President for regarding the plan. which was to 
dore Hesburgh had delegated his Student Affairs. Thus, the CLC help alleviate the problem of the 
veto powers too liberally to his serves not as a legislative body, as lact of social space. adminstrators, and had rendered the SLC did, but rather as an Another resolution the CLC the SLC ineffective. advisory council to the Vice-Presi­adopted was left over from SLC 
Thus, on April 14. 1977. Bender dent fo~ Student Affairs. discussions. In conjunction with introduced a proposal to the 'Board The CLC did not have its first Psycholr 5ical Services. Student of Trustees calling for the abolition meeting until Feb. 6. In the Affairs made available a residcnti­
of the SLC and the establishment of interim, the Student Government ality survey to give rectors an idea the CLC. drafted by-laws which were later of the character of their halls. At 
The main difference between the adoptedby the Council and repre­the CLC executive meeting last two bodies is the replacement of sentatives to the Council were Wednesday Paczesny stated that five faculty representatives with six chosen. In the two months he would write any necessary hall rectors. Bender endorsed this following . the first meeting the letters to encourgae the use of change because he viewed the halls CLC, under Bender's leadership, these surveys. 
' The first annual Pig Roast at Holy Cross Hall was unexpectedly 
as the center of student life. successfully obtained necessary The Council also voted to en­postponed yesterday. Due to a slight miscalculation in cooking The SLC had addressed prob­approval and funding for a compre­dorse and encourage Universitytime, the pig, obtained from Fal'mer Brown, was burnt to ashes. 
lems dealing with University Vil­hensive plan for the construction of involvement in lobbying efforts toHamburgers and hotdogs kept those attending the affair well lage and other off-campus concerns_ social space in five residence !')wer the drinking age in Indianafed, content, and appreciative. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 
Bender specified that these preas dorms. (Continued on page 8] 



--______,...-­

2.___ the observer ___ Friday, May 5, 1978 
• ,....News Briefs_______ Human rights group obtains release of political prisoners 
:::::::=========================== National 
Amnesty International (AI), the international human rights organ­ization which was awarded the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize, announced today that Michael Bhembe Moyo, a Rhodesian citizen detained by the Rhodesian Government because of his political beliefs, has been released. Mr. Moyo had been detained without criminal charge since November, 1975. 
The Notre Dame-South Bend Chapter of AI worked for the release of Mr. Moyo since March, 1977, when the chapter was found­ed. Its members wrote letters on Mr. Moyo's behalf to Rhodesian Government officials. The letters requested either that Mr. Moyo be formally charged under Rhodesian law or that he be released imme­diately. 
The local chapter also sent clothing to Mr. Moyo and his family, books to aid Mr. Mayo gain a high school diploma while in prison, and fees for Mr. Moyo's diploma-equivalency course of 
studies. 
In addition to working on behalf of Mr. Moyo, the local chapter, AI USA Group 43, has also helped secure the release of another prisoner of conscience, Apolonia Buenaventura of the Philippines. 
Senorita Buenaventura was re­leased in May, 1977, as a result of AI's general reputation and of the local Chapter's intensive letter writing campaigns to Government officials on her behalf. 
Since its founding in March, 1977, USA Group 43 has participa­ted in a number of AI's global campaigns for the release of pri­soners of conscience and for the abolition of torture as a means of interrogation of such prisoners. 

4:30pm  lecture, ''tightly embedded subgroups of groups," prof. paul fonz, u of illinois, chicago 226 ccmb.  finite circle,  
4:30pm  frances o'malley memorial convocation, o'malley: the teacher," david kubel, cal sponsored by english dept. art gallery.  "mr; state,  

For example, earlier this year the Chapter participated in Al's cam­pai~n for the abolition of human 
Pitt club to pack truck 
The Pittsburgh Club baggage truck will load Sunday, May 14, at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The truck will be in the Stepan Center parkin_g lot from 10-11 a.m., and the bookstore lot from 11:30­
12:30 p.m. Pickup at Saint Mary's· will be at the Lemans and Regina parking lot from 2-3 p.m. 
In Pittsburgh, the truci wiii unload at the North and South Hills Villages. For information, call Larry (1869). 


%rfle Observet 
Night Editor: Frank Kebe 
Sandy "l quit! and I'm official 
ly retiring tool" Colson 
Asst. Night Editor: Mik• 
Jackson, Bob Brink 
layout Staff: Anne Griffin 
Margie Brassil; Katie Kerwin 
Editorial Layout: Rosemar 
Mills (Thank you, Rick} .. 
Features Layout: CaZU>/ 
Brzhob Productions 
Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien 
Typists: Mardi Nevin, To., 
Powanda, Mark Rust, Stac 
Weaver,Mary McCauley 
Night ControUers: . Kare, 
Chiames, Mardi Nevin 
Day Editor: Tom Nilsson 
Copy Readers: Phil Cackley 
Reed Ki_ng .. 
Ad Layout: John P. O'CQo 
nell, Steve Bonomo & Chupe 
Photographer: S~e Coliton 
.. 
The Observer 11 published Mon­d•y ftlrougll Frld•y except during eum .nd v.atlon periods. Tl'le Observer Is published by the students of Notre O.me .nd S•lnt M.,Ys College. Subscriptions mey be purdl•sed for no per ve•r (S 11 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. aox Q, Notre o-, lndiM• 46JS6. Second ct.s ,.,.,.,e p•ld, Notre O.me, lndiMa, 46556. . The Obaerver II • member of ftle Assodahld ........ All Npro­ductloll ritlltl .,. NHrved. 


Dean comments on tapes 
WASHINGTON (AP]-John W. Dean says former President Richard 
M. Nixon wanted to use his White House tapes to "blow the socks off me" when Dean was starting to tell federal prosecutors about Watergate activities. Dean, Nixon'.s White House .coun~el, sai.d the president mentioned his plans dunng a conversatton With Ch~ef of Staff H.R. Haldeman that appears 011 one of the tapes. Dean was asked in a television interview about Nixon's memoirs, in which Nixon said he' held on to his tapes as "insurance" in case aides like Dean turned against him. 
Inspector accused 
MIAMI [APJ· A federal grand jury has accused a U.S. Immigration inspector of selling tourist visas to Argentine pr~stitutes so th~y could work six-month tours in the United States. Rtchard J. Harvtn was accused of collaborating with Etnesto Torres-Alcala of San Juan. The indictment claimed Torres-Alcala used Harvin's ~elp to get the prostitutes into Florida. Once here, each woman w~s issued a form allowing her to remain in the United States on tounst status for two weeks. 

Weather 

Cloudy and cool with rain or drizzle likely today. Highs in the low to mid 50s. Cloudy tonight with a slight chance of light rain or drizzle. Low in the low 40s. Ooudy and cool tomorrow. High mid to upper 50s. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
friday 

5:15pm mass and supper, bulla shed 6:30pm registration, indiana classical conferences, spon b~ dept of modern languages, regina hall, Snt4 6:45pm rosary, at the grotto 7 pm bible study, "college life," spon. by the campu crusade for christ, howard hall 7,9,11 pm film, "the spy who loved me," starring roger moore as james bond 007, eng. aud., spon. by studen union, $1 8 pm 
nd/smc theatre "the mikado,'' o'laughlin aud 8 pm plant colloquim plants in personal well being, "an inquiry into the symbiotic influence of plants on 
people," by steve wolf, 278galvln 9pm nazz, open stage, basement of Iafortune 9:30pm countdown of the top 119, featuring the mames and 
the inevitables, spon, by the morriessey student onion, morrissey hall saturday Bam coiderence, indiana classical conference continues carroll hall smc 9am plant colloquim continues, 278 galvin 9:30am baseball, nd vs. bradley, jake kline field 11 am tennis, smc vs. ball state, angela athletic facility 2 pm football, blue & gold game, the final scrimmage o spring practice, in the stadium 7 pm concert, gospet music, lib. aud. & lounae, sponsore1 by k of c 7,9,11 pm film, "the spy who loved me," eng. aud. $1 Bpm nd/smc theatre, "the mikado, o'laughlin aud 
sunday 

3 pm faculty recital, joyce schemanske on the organ, grac• methodist church 
7&9pm film, "charlie chaplin review,'~ spon. by studen' union, eng. aud 
7:15pm orpn recital, nd brass and organ ensembl oonducted by rev.. george wiskirchen, c.s.c sponsored by the dept. of music, sacred heart c:hurc 
7:30 ..... film, "distant thunder," sponsored by the englisl dt!pt., c:arroiiiYII-madeleva, free 
...... HCOnCI scene, "t~e gingerbread lady," rep~ 
~L ~ 
rights violtations in Paraguay. addition, the Group collected the This campaign was initiated as a signatures of over 1700 persons response to the Paraguayan Gov-petitioning for an end to political ernment's denial of all constitu-imprisonment and for an investiga­tional safeguards to those suspec-tion of alleged torture. often resul­ted of purely political offenses. ting in death, of prisoners of 
Members of USA Group 43 and conscience. 

of the Notre Dame and South Bend As a result of activities like those 
communities wrote over 145 letters of USA Group 43, the Paraguayan 
to Paraguayan officials to demon-·~over?m~nt has agreed to allo~ an 
strate their concern over human mvesttgatton of the human nghts 
rights violations in Paraguay. In [Continued on page 4] 



O'Malley to be honored with memorial convocation 
A memorial convocation honor­ing his years at Notre Dame. Some 

ing Francis J. O'Malley, professor of his former students, in addition 

of English at Notre Dame for 41 to many members of the presentyears before his death in 1974, has faculty, include Chicago Tribune been scheduled for 4:30 p.m. today columnist David Condon, former in the O'Shaughnessy Hall Art 

Ohio governor John Gilligan, theGallery. 
late Pulitzer Prize winning novelist, Edwin O'Connor, and others.
A paper, "Mr. O'Malley: The Teacher." will be presented by a He founded a student readingformer student, David Kubal, as­
club, The Wranglers, and was an 
sociate professor of English at advisor and contributor to such 

California State University, Los campus publications as Scholastic,

Angeles. 

Juggler and Review of Politics. 
O'Malley received national ac­All members of the ND/SMC claim for his influence and scholar­community are invited to the ly training of undergraduates dur-convocation. 
Engineers receive honors 
Three engineers were honored 1973-74 when the College observed 

April28 by the Notre Dame College 100 years of engineering education 

of Engineering for their significant 

at Notre Dame, and consists of a 
contributions in the field of engi­Steuben glass bowl inscribed withneering. 

the University's seal. 
John Gilbert, plant manager of Faculty and students also were 

the Basic Engine Plant, Caterpillar recognized for outstandingTractor Co., John F. Kennedy, achievement during the annual director of the Institute of Hydrau­lic Research at the University of Iowa, and John T. Ryan, Jr., chairman of the board of Mine Safety Appliances Company and a Notre Dame trustee, received the 1978 Honor Awards. Kennedy also presented the annual lecture. 

The award was established in 

Lifters club sponsors meet 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club is sponsoring an interhall power lifting meet this Sunday, May 7, at the ACC Weight Room. Weigh-in will be at 1:00 p.m. 
Entrants can lift in any combina­tion of the three standard power­lifts: squat, bench press, and deadlift. 
There will be a $1 entry fee for non-club members. 

Hon~~ward Ceremoney_.-··­
[!he OBSERVER 
end-of-the-year party on Friday the 5th has ·been moved 
to Guiseppe's. The van will run . from the OBSERVER I 
i 
l
parking space every half..hour from 


8:30 to 10:30 p.m. 

SELF-LOCK 
STORAGE 



OF McKINLEY 
SPECIAL RATES FOR 
ND STUDENTS: 
Storage for 


MOTORCYCLES AUTOS, FURNITURE, BOOKS, Etc. 
Share a space with a roommate or friend! 
YOUR OWN STORAGE SPACE -YOU KEEP THE KEY 


C.\LL OR VISIT TODAY AT: 
816 E. McKINLEY, MISHAWAKA 







259-0335 
ALSO AN A4.A QUAUTY ClEANERS SlATION 


Friday, May 5, 1978 the observer 

Observer Insight: 
HPC-a sounding board tor campus issues 
by Bob V81'ettoni Senior Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Hall President's Council (HPC) was a sounding board for many issues this year, from the groundskeepers' situation to the changes in disciplinary procedure, but that didn't stop the HPC from celebrating An Tostal in October. 
The Council, which coordinated the spring festival, held one meeting in October where Grace Hall President Jerry Castelini con­cluded a speech about the serious­ness of the HPC by throwing a pie into the face of Dillon Hall Presi­dent Bob Hutchinson. 
This version of the "pie assassina­tion service" came in reaction to an incident a week earlier when a group identified as the Dillon Liberation Army, wearing dis­guises and armed with electric hair dryers, broke into the HPC meeting and kidnapped Castellini. 
All year the HPC seemed to have a knack for combining the impor­tant with the trivial. At the same meeting where Student Body Vice­President Tom Soma attacked Uni­versity policy and asked for student support for the groundskeepers, hall presidents were asked to try and prevent "double meanings" from appearing on their hall ban­ners at the USC football game. 
The 1977-78 HPC Chairman J.P. Russell noted that "our role was not that big" on the major issues. But, he added, "I think that's Student Government's job, and the student body president was right 
Seniors, Alumni, 

DON'T MISS A SINGLE ISSUE! order a 1978 -'lSI to 
published Monday through Friday during the school yea1r (except vacation periods) 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE AND RETURN BY AUGUST 14, 1978 
NAME 

ADDRES~S---------------------------------------­
CITY ------------------STATE -------­
ZIP 

$10 __ONE SEMESTER ---FALL '78 ---SPRING '79 
$20 __IWO SEMESTERS 
MAKE CHECK OR MONEY ORDER, NO CASH PLEASE, PAYABLE TO 1 
THE OBSERVER SUBSCRIPTIONS '78 

P.O. BOX Q NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 

up on the big issues this year.,­
Above all, this year's HPC ''helped the hall presidents to become better hall presidents, and helped them to become more informed," Russel said. "When I started on the Council three years ago, the Council existed for the sake of existing. I think we were really at a point far away from that this year." 

One action the HPC initiated this year was the revision of the Student Government constitution. In No­vember, Russell appointed a three member ad hoc committee to revise the old constitution. By February, a new constitution was ratified and 


Hughes in stable condition after fall through skylight 
by Jean Powley Saint MBI'y's Editor 
Kathleen T. Hughes, the Saint Mary's junior who was critically injured Wednesday when she fell through a skylight in LeMans Hall, is now in stable and improving condition in the intensive care unit of St. Joseph's Hospital, according to Sr. Karol Jackowski, LeMans hall director. 
Her condition is listed as critical and she is still unconscious but is responding to treatment. ''The doctors are pleased with her pro­gress," Jackowski said. 
Hughes sustained a severe lacer­ation and hairline fractures at the went into effect before the new student body officers were elected in March. The HPC also voted to discontinue its participation in the Student Union complimentary concert ticket policy. At the same time the HPC recommended that the Student Union eliminate the policy, since it "did not benefit the student body at large." 

The efforts of the HPC helped raise close to $4600 in the United Way Campaign, a total Russell said he considered "excellent." Hall presidents also received informa­tion and reports on paper drives, the student escort service, Alcohol 
base of her skull and a dislocated finger when, shortly before noon Wednesday, she accidentally step­ped on the skylight while going out onto the roof to sunbathe. She fell through into the presicjent's board room kitchen below. 
The College was unable to contact Hughes parents for several hours after the accident because they were enroute to Cincinatti. 
However, they were finally con­tacted and arrived in South Bend late Wednesday night. 
"Students shouldn't call the hospital," Jackowski stated. "We will post her condition on the LeMans board. Also, until further notice, no visitors will be allowed except family." 
Awareness Week, the Neighbor-ving since only certain students hood Roots program and -campus have been privy to the details of the social events. . matter," Russell re'acted. "I do 
The HPC acted; as a forum for know that on the HPC we have 24 major issues that ;were acted upon of the top student representative by Student Government. A few who know precisely what the meetings centered around discus-situation is. And if need be, we can sions of the groudskeepers or have an excited student body in a around reports concerning the matter of hours.~' planned Logan Center budget cut. Although six ' of this year's The HPC also ' held two closed hall presidents were seniors, sev­meetings · solely on the topic of era! members from this year's HPC proposed changes in disciplinary will have other student govern­procedure. ment-relatedjobs next year. Chuck 
Russell was particularly out-Del Grande, the outgoing hall spoken against an initial University president from Fischer, is already proposal to remove students from active as the new HPC chairman. the judicial process, claiming that Castellini will be the new senior the change would "stack the deck" class president. Jayne Rizzo, against students. formerly Lyons Hall president, is Although he later said he was the first judicial coordinator under satisfied with the eventual compro-· the new Student Government con­mise, he criticized University Presi-. stitution. Mike Roohan, the 1977­dent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh's 78 St. Edwards Hall president, is opinion that students really didn't the new student body vice-presi­care about the issue. dent. Kristin Ouann. the outgoing 
"Student interest might be decei-[C t' d 6]
on mue on page 



tonight 9-mdnite
I the bst cpa1 stage 
Satur~~ 9-.30-m~y 
the frol performarce ot rrak kaspc:r ad 1he frierdy ~ ard an appearax::e by 1he 3 Oclock rd jazz cootx:> 




The Pufrm fare for youths. 
One of the first things young Puffins learn to do is fly Icelandic. 
Beginning April 1, 1978, Icelandic will fly any youth (Puffin 
or person) from 12 thru 23 years old roundtrip from New 

York to Luxembourg But there's more to for just $400. $430 
Icelandic than just from Chicago. Re­low fares. turn tickets are You1lgeta 
good for a fuU great dirmer and year. Fares are exceUentservice subject to 
on your trip. And change. Icelandic will 
set you down anytime. right in the mid­
dle of the Euro­pean Continent, where you11 be 

.·i just hours away by : train from Europe's , ' most famous 
Book 

landmarks. So take a travel tip from Iceland's favorite bird. Learn to fly Icelandic. See your travel agent. Or write Dept.# 352, Icelandic Airlines, ""' P.O. Box 105,
·:\$ West Hempstead, ~ N.Y. 11552. CaD '-·· , . .-800-555-1212for ...;;~i;~ toll-free number in your area. 
$345 
Roundtrip 14-45 day APEX fare from N.Y.' 

$400 
Roundtrip Youth Fare. Good thru age 23. 
Icelandic to Europe 
'$375 &om Chicago. TICkets must be reserved :II days prior to departure and paid k>r within 8 days of reservation. APEX lare effective June I. 1978. 
Observer Staffers! bring your frie~nds to the yec1 r end.  . . .  0 Giuseppe's Restaurant ~~~rr1~ q]o~[l'JIW\  




-------~--~--~--­
the ObServer Friday, May 5, 1978 
Shortage expected 





B-ball ticket distribution revised 
by Bill Scholl 
A plan for student basketball ticket distribution has been formed in case student demand exc~ds the number of tickets available for next season. according to Mike Busick. Notre Dame ticket mana­ger. 
Busick said the plan was formu­lated at a meeting Tuesday with 


•• while youwait., 
Photos Persons Price 2 1 4.50 2 2 6.50 2 3 7.50 2 4 8.50 11 
Extra SxTs Only $150 
8x10 
Photos Persons Price Reg. 2 1 6.50 8.50 2 2 8.50 1100 2 3 tO.OO 13 50 2 4 11.50 15.00 2 5 14.50 18.00 2 6 16.00 19 50 2 7 17.50 21.00 2 8 19.00 22.50 

Extra 8x 10's Only $2.00 
"' 
antique style frames available 
authentic costumes & sets provided 
J.P. Russell, former chairman of the Hall President's Council (HPC), Chuck DelGrande, current chairman of the HPC. and Andy McKenna. student body president. 
The 5,000 tickets usually allotted for students may not be enough because of Notre Dame's fourth place finish in the NCAA tourna­ment this year, Busick noted. 
"This is the first time that student demand might be greater than the supply of tickets available to them," he said. 
The plan arrived at, according to Busick, is to allot 4,400 tickets to sophomores, juniors, and seniors and to allow 400 tickets for the incoming freshmen. The final 200 tickets will be given to Saint Mary's students. 
"I want to emphasize," Busick continued, ''that this plan has not been adopted for sure. We will wait and see how many requests we receive this summer." 
As in past years, applications will be mailed out during the summer. If a student has not received an application by the first week in July, he should contact the ticket office. Busick stated. 

Price expects housing availability 
by Andy Segovia 
Edmund Price, new director of 
University Housing, said yesterday 
he docs not see any reason for 
concern about availa.bility of stu­
dent housing for nr.xt year. 
"I am optimistic that we will be 
able to accomodate everyone with a 
housing contract for next year," he 
said. 
By April 18, 4417 housing con­tracts were turned in, while the normal capacity of the dorms is 4234. ''These figures give us an idea of what we can expect. We will not know the exact situation until the beginning of next semes­ter," Price said. 
Price pointed out that most of the contract overload is usually negat­ed by students who fail to return in the fall, students who are approved as resident assistants and students who later elect to move off campus. 
According to Price, accomoda­twns have already been made in Farley for the increase of women living on campus next year. Carroll and Holy Cross are currently being considered as possible solutions to male overcrowding, he continued. "Special temporary accomodations will be provided if necessary." -he stated. The housing director contended that the overcrowding problem does not stem from a substantial increase of freshman admitted. There is a negligible annual increas in the number of freshman admit­

"Whatever distribution plan we adopt will be found on the back of the application and will be self­explanatory," Busick said. 
The 400 tickets given to fresh­men will be distributed through a lottery. Any tickets not used up the upperclassmen will also be put into the freshmen lottery, according to Busick. 
"As far as the Saint Mary's tickets are concerned, the 200 is 20 more that they received for this past season. We could give them more but only at the expense of our 
own  students,''  Busick  com­ 
mented.  
Busick  also  stated  that  it  is  

important that the business office has the proper mailing address for students. "If a student won't be 
ted to the University. he explained. 
Price attributed the problem of overcrowding to the decrease of students electing to move off campus. Price pointed out that a few years ago the popular thing among university students was to move off campus, now the reverse is true. 
There is currently a nationwide trend in students living on campus, according to Price. A number of other major universities are facing similar problems in accomodating all the students who wish to live on campus. 
Human rights organization helps release prisoners 
[Continued from page 2] situation in Paraguay. The lntema­tional American Commission of Human Rights, of the Organization of American States, will be allow.ed to make the investigation. In addition, pressure by political par­ties and other organizations within Paraguay for a general amnesty for prisoners of conscience has in­creased. 
Presently, AI has over 1SUO groups in over 30 countries and members in over 70 countries participatingin its globalcampaigns and working in behalf or· over 4000 prisoners of conscience. 
There are more than 100 AI Groups in the United States. Each Group, like the Notre Dame-South 
Miller 
3 Days 

Lite 
Left 

$.50 
*4-7 

9-3 


ratulations on a 
Heckuva vearl! 
There is an added incentive to living on campus here in Notre Dame, Price continued, because of the "residential atmosphere which the campus provides." 
Price also reported that there is no danger of forcing any of next year's seniors to live off campus. There had been rumors concerning a possible lottery to delegate senior room picks. 
Commenting on the possibility of constructing additional dorms, Price stated that no specific plans concerning such a project have been formulated. 
living at the address we have, then 
he  should  contact  the  business  
office  so  that  we  can  get  the  
application to him."  

Busick said that last year they had to turn down about SO requests for tickets, mostly from people who turned their application in late or not at all. 
''I want ot point out that the number of student tickets are not being cut back from that in previous years in order to meet rising demands from other areas. The !rtudents arc our first con­cern," Busick stated. 
"It is also important to note that this plan may not even be neces­sary if we don't receive more than 5,000 student requests," Busick concluded. 
Bend Group, works in behalf of 2 
or 3 prisoners of conscience. 
AI was founded in 1961 by Peter 
Benenson, a London attorney, and 
has helped secure the release of more than 8,500 prisoners of conscience since its formation. The organization is non-profit and is affiliated with no government or ideology. 
AI seeks the observance throughout the world of the United Nations' Declaration of Human Rights and The United Nations' Standard Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners. 
For further information contact: James Zorn--288-0402 -director of media relations for the local chapter. 
16 Days left 

2 Days 1 Day Left Left 
*4-7 *4-7 
~-----6~~--._----~-­

s ·1) 15¢ OFF ALL BEERS 
,. 

* 2) 5()¢ OFF ALL MIXED ORIN 

1 
l 

_ __;_______________________j 




Friday, May 5, 1978
the observer Observer Insight: 
6 
~ 

Case load increases with new j-board system 
by Mark Rust system proteCts the student from only involve itself only to the extent board. Since neither the board nor is responsive. We will try to instill 
Staff Reporter the occasional bad decision and that advice or a formal representa-myself were contacted, we were not a sense of responsibility in the hall 
gives him a good idea of what his tive is needed. aware of it until it was too late." and clear up vague terms so 
The suspension of AI Hunter last options are because he knows what If it is a hall offense, the student "It is the student's responsibility students can communicate more 
summer stirred much general con­to expect. That's the biggest has two op.tions: either he chooses to get in contact with us," said clearly on the issues." 
troversy of the campus disciplinary difference." to be dealt with by the hall rector, Rizzo. "When I asked the two "The whole thing starts with the 
system. The case also gave And what should a student ex-or he chooses the judicial board. In students why they hadn't, they dorms," Rizzo concluded. "We 
Student Body President Dave Ben­pect? To begin with, the student either case, all parties have the asked me what a j-board is." have to get established and visible 
der the ear of the Board of should know that under the new right to appeal the final decision. "I see our image as evolving," from the beginning. If we do so, 
Trustees. Bender used the oppor­system an offense is classified as With no precedents to follow and said Rizzo, "evolving from non-we can become the viable vehicle of 
tunity to push for and obtain a new either a "hall" or "University" many students still ignorant of the entity to official voice for accounta-justice that we ought to be. We can 
disciplinary procedure in late Octo­offense. importance of the new system, bility on campus. Right now that work with the staff on irritating 
ber. As spelled out by duLac, a hall there are still many problell)s to evolution is being stifled because of problems and help students, so 
Since then the new judicial system offense ranges from the use of resolve, as evidence by a recent lack of exposure, vague definitions, that the problems don't get out of 
has functioned "very well," accor­firecrackers to the use of pot and case in which two students were misconceptions, and a general lack hand." 
ding to retiring Judicial Coordi­covers the spectrum--alcohol expelled for alleged dope-dealing. of force due to lack of use." As judicial coordinator, Rizzo is 
nator John Talbot. "Already abuse, hall destruction, stealing "True, what they were exp~lled "We will attack the problem from the person charged with the res­
we've noticed a large increase in and disturbance--in between. for is a University offense," com-those areas," she continued. "Our ponsibility of seeing the judicial 
the number of cases being handled Other matters, such as the sale of mented Jayne Rizzo, judicial coor-strength will lie in getting our-board through its "evolutionary" 
bv the hall judicial boards. Neither narcotics, are University offenses. dinator, "but it began with a selves known in the dorms next stage. After a first year of trial, it 
h;tll rectors nor students are hesi­"It was the Hunter case that made situation that could have yery year-visiting people, making sure is obvious that the judicial board 
tant to use it." them realize that the duLac rules easily been handled by the juqicial the residents know that their board has some evolving to do. 
Anwding to Talbot, approxi­were hurting," Talbot explained. 
matelv eight or nine cases have "Students screamed that the ju­I 
bt·cn heard by each hall judicial dicial board should have handled it. I 
board this year. But no one--neither Roemer nor 
Before this year, the concept of the Student Government--could 
lhl' hall judicial board was hazy one make a clear case about what a 

Pub plans run into trouble 
al best. Some halls had it, others parietal violation was or who 
didn't. There was little distinction should handle it. Or how. It was a 

by Tim Grothaus club license, which isn't easy," he would have to be worked out," he between a "hall offense" and a mess because Hunter was giving noted. He also explained that stated. 
"University offense." and we were getting a bad image." 

Plans for a pub in the basement Notre Dame would have to comply Commenting on other plans for Because of this. every rule infrac­The Board of Trustees didn't like 
of the LaFortune Student Center/ with Indiana state drinking laws. the renovation of the LaFortune tion--from tossing a firecracker to that. Bender bypassed the usual have not been eliminated, in spite This would mean that only students Student Center, Paczesny said that selling narcotics--went to James routes of authority and went di­of a number of problems, according over 21 could visit the pub, "and the remodeling is being done so Roemer, dean of students. Or it rectly to the Board of Trustees, in to Bro. Just Paczesny, vice­there's a very low percentage of that "the students will have a placewent to the rector. Or it went to the order to air his proposals for president for Student Affairs. students on campus that are over that they'd like to come to." 
hall j-board. In short. the accused· reform. "And we won," said 
"We'd like to have a pub, and 21," he added.

student didn't know what to expect Talbot. "The Board of Trustees Presently, $350,000 has been
the remodeling plans still call for a 

from his accusors. agreed the changes were necessary allotted for the LaFortune project.
possible pub, but certain problems In addition, Paczesny noted that 
"The rector would have decided and they had the procedures imple­would have to be surmounted," there are certain state regulations The plans include, among other 
what happened," Talbot said. mented." things, the installation of an eleva­
Paczesny stated yesterday. governing the location of a pub.
"That wasn't necessarily bad be­If the offense is a University tor and a major remodeling of the 
Paczesny listed several problems "It has to be a certain number of 
cause their decisions might have offense the case goes to Roemer. Student Center's first floor. Work
that the pub proposal now faces. feet away from churches and 
been fair. But basically the new The student judicial system would is expected to begin this summer.
"First, we'd have to get a private educational facilities, and that 
Glee Club plans European tour; 

N 1i:OVER ... W'A5H/NGTON
eleven concerts scheduled 

uJ·(A)-W£ JUST SAW 
by Jim Johnston Paris, London, Stratford-on-Avon weekend tours, and contributions l~E. GHOST/' and Birmingham, the Glee Club from travelling Clubbers, relatives, has included these cities on their friends and alumni. 
From May 23 to June 16 the 
intinerary. European Tour Committee
Notre Dame Glee Club will be The Glee Club has been planning Chairman, Jim Johnston, and Co­making its third European Concert the financing and organization of Chairmen, Paul Gales, MikeTour. The Glee Club will be this trip for more than a year. Over Keefe, Mike Hogan, and Nathanperforming both an accompanied $40,000 has been raised by the Stone are working out the finaland an acappella program on this Glee Club to finance the tour details of the tour which will be tour. 
through sales of its new Christmas made by fifty student singers, Dr.
The itinerary features eleven 
Album "A-Caroing," sales of the David Clark Isele, Director, and Fr.
formal concerts including: Rome, 
album "Wake Up The Echoes," 'Robert Griffin. Chaplain.
May 2S;Innsbruck. May 28; Frank­furt, May 30; two in Berlin, May 31 and June 1; Cologne, June 3; Angers, JuneS; Slough, (a London 
HPC serves as issue forum 
suburb), June 10; Dublin, June 13; Bandon, Co. Cork, June 14; Avoca,· [Continued from page 3] its first meeting on April 12, Co. Wicklow, June IS. HPC secretary, is now a member of already seems to be following in 
In addition to these concerts, the Rizzo's staff.· the footsteps of the 1977-78 HPC. Glee Club will be singing a High Two outgoing hall presidents will In its first piece of business after Mass in Latin (Lotti's Mass In work in Student Body President electing DelGrande as chairman, 
B-Oat) in the Cologne Cathedral on Andy McKenna's cabinet. Paul Marty Paulson, the new Dillon Hall June 4 and a Mass in Notre Dame Falduto, from Morrissey Hall, is president, challenged Jim O'Hare, Cathedral in Paris on June 6. A the new social concerns commis­the new Grace Hall president, to 
Papal Audience is also planned for sioner. and Rick Remick, from "capture the flag" contest on the May 24 if timing problems can be 
Sorin, is one of the two new social South Quad. 
worked out. Although not perform­life commissioners. The contest, held during An ing concerts in Munich, Chartres, Finally, the new HPC. which held Tostal, ended in a draw. 






[ [ ~n-im-.u I


.. 

Sundav Masses at Saaed Heart Church 

5:15 pm Saturday Vigil Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. 1o:45 a.m. rev. James F. Flanigan, C.S.C 
12:15 p.m. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. William Lewers, C.S.C. and Recital 
SCIENCE MAJORS 
We're looking for college grads to fill unique positions as Navy Officers. Leadership ability needed to supervise highly skilled workers. 
for the 1978-1979 SCHOOL YEAR. 

312-657-2234 COLLECT
call candy at 233 -6363 or 234 -6647 


Friday, May 5, 1978 the observer
Next semester 





SU to present 'Welcome Week' 
outdoor concerts wtll take place on each class will sponsor a picnic with Saturday, September 2. The band something every night, get to meet by Adam Szczepanski the North Quad, near the Towers, funds donated by the Student has not been chosen. people, and have some fun before featuring a country-rock group. In Union. Summing up the proposed Wel­they have to begin their work. 
The Student Union will usher in addition, transfer students will be The final event of the week will come Week, Roche stated. "We'd Hopefully, this will set a precedent the fall semester with a "Welcome given a chance to meet fellow be a concert in Stepan Center on like to give everyone a chance for a for a reai social year and will Week." according to SU Director students at a Student Union spon­social week where they can do become an annual event." Bill Roche. The week of events will sored Happy Hour. On Wednes­
' 

begin August 28 and run through day, August 30, there will be a September 2. picnic similar to the annual Carney According to Roche, "Welcome picnic on one of the quds. That 
Students assaulted by guards
Week" will be made possible with evening, a double feature will be the surplus from this year's bud­shown in Stepan Center with [continued from page 1] Security is currently investiga­monitor of Badm. I feel the get. After discussing ways to use "Sleeper" and ''Young Franken­The officers poked these stu­ting the incident. problem might have been better the money with Gary Luchini, SU stein" as a proposed films. The dents in the stomachs to move Johnson said, ''According to handled if the rector or resident services commisioner, and John following evening, August 31, Sun­them back. The students said they witnesses I've talked to, the actions as!>istants had been made aware of Bonacci, SU social commissioner, shine Promotions is sponsoring a gave ground but one turned around of the students did not warrant the the situation." he added. the three decided that the money Kris Kristofferson-Rita Coolide to face the officers, was confronted use of night sticks or aluminum "I hope that this type of situation could be best put to use by concert at the ACC. by the officer with the flashlight, flashlights by Security personnel. can be avoided in the future sponsoring a week of activities for At the second outdoor concert and was struck on the side of the The students were using abusive through mutua; respect b\'tween students, before studies begin. As which will be held on the South head. The students said the wound language toward the security of­students and Security officers. 
However, if students are facetl with 
a result, many events have already Quad, on Friday, September 1, the began to bleed. ficers but that does not justify been planned and a tenative sche­Student Union will introduce punk­The student fled and pursued by physically attacking those violent encounters with Security, 
they will only develop a fear of
dule has been printed. rock to Notre Dame. There will be the officers, he was arrested, students.'' On the first day of classes, a prize given for the best attire for handcuffed and taken to Security ''This situation seemed to have Security rather than respect," Tuesday August 29, the first of two the occasion. Before the concert headquarters. been blown out of proportion by the Johnson concluded. 
Good times are great times for the easy taste of 
KING OF BEERS• • ANHEUSER·9USCH IN I.: ~STLOUIS 


the observer Friday, May 5, 1978 


CLC stresses dorm life, social space 
[Continued from page 1] from 21 to 19. Paczesny said at that time that he would present the 
recommendation to Philip Fac­cenda, legal counsel for the Univer­sity for his use. 
At the same meeting, the CLC voted down a proposal to recom­mend that the directive prohibiting kegs be deleted from du Lac. The proposal received a majority of the votes, but failed to obtain the necessary two-thirds majority for passage. 
Opposition centered around the fact that if the directive was deleted there would be no official Univer­sity policy on kegs, and any kegs in a dorm would then be the responsi­bility of the rector of that hall. 
The rector liability position also pl•sed the problem of inconsistency in administration, since inevitable some students would have a right denied to others, by virtue of living in a different hall. 
On April 1, 1978, the present Student Body President Andy McKenna took office and began work on several issues that con­cerned students. 
The LaFortune renovation and the loft directive were both discus­s.ed in recent sessions. At the last executive meeting proposals con­cerning both of these items were passed by the Council. 
The loft guidelines presented to 
WNDU broadcasteremployees concerning their own 
Lou Tutino dies 
WNDU broadcaster Lou Tutino, 
29. was found dead in his home Wednesday evening. Dr. Louis Grwinski. St. Joseph county cor­oner attributed the cause of death to complications of diabetes. Tutino graduated from Notre Dame and had worked for WNDU since 1969. 
He is survived by his wife Janice; a daughter, Jennifer; and a son, Michael. Friends mav call 2-4 and 7-9 p.m. at McGann Funeral Home. Services will be at 10 a.m. Saturday at St. Joseph's Catholic Church, and also at 7:30 p.m. at Highland Cemetary. 


National Championship Caps 
Ice Rink Pro Sl}op 
many other ~ouveniers also available 
to graduating
5% DISCOUNT 
Seniors­Present your ID Enter ~ate 3 10am-5pm Mon-Fri 
alumni senior picnic 78 
(First Annual) 
Stepan Center saturday ~y &h 11 am-1:30pm 
OOfJIR ~ , stay late! btifore blut3 (preen) gold game 
, Meet the NO alumni Club Reps from your post-graduation dty. , Maps, housing advice and business sense for each Club City will be available , Bring ideas of what you want your Alumni Assodation to be and do. , The Alurmi came from all over the country to meet you --be there! 
.free beer and bmutmust protided by the alurnni assn. 
Volleyball games, more beer and more talk at the Senior Bar after the Game. Start Senior Week early. 
union activities and desires in order to _di~courage support or me~ber­
shlp m Teamsters Local 364. 
Lawrence claimed the agreement is "an implicit admission of guilt by the University." 
He added, "The whole settle­ment is an indication that the University didn't want to go through the agony of a long trial in court." 
·'If this attorney has all the information correct, the Teamsters Union has no objection to the agreement between the NLRB and Notre D"me," Lawrence said. 
"The union regards this agree­ment as a complete vindication of our position," he continued. "I the CLC by a special from the Student Government require vari­ous fire safety measures and building guidelines to be strk1ly observed. 
Dean of Students James Roemer said that he did not expect that the recommendation from the Council would sway Paczesny to change the directive issued after the Morrissey fire which prohibits lofts. 
Several other proposals were passed that pointed out to the University existing hazards that come under the jurisdiction of University control, such as the use of flammable materials in mattres­ses distributed to students. 
The LaFortune resolution 



Details revealed in NLRB settlement 
!continued from page 1] 
Notre Dame, in the fourth point, 
said it "will not announce pay 
increases or any benefits, nor grant 
pay increases to our employees in 
order to discourage support or 
membership in Teamsters Local 
364." 
The last point of the agreement according to Lawrence, was not in the original complaint. It concern­ed the "interrogation of emplo­yees." Notre Dame says in the ·agrement, "We will not interrogate 
amounts to a joint effort by a student and an administrator to supervise the promised renovations of LaFortune this summer and next year. 
Throughout its brief initial term, the CLC has shown itself to be a cautious and concerned group. It has discussed a wide variety of issues, always keeping the stu­dents interests in mind. 
Problems seem to exist, how­ever, in that Paczesny had indi­cated that the CLC has been discussing matters that are not under his jurisdiction. Therefore it seems that such recommendations from the Council should be directed or originated elsewhere. 

think the University agreed to felt the trial would drag on for days everything the NLRB was trying tro and also thought they would lose get." 
it," he said. Thomas Hull, director of Person­

"Right now," Lawrence added, nel, said the University could not 
"Teamsters Local 364 is sending a 
comment on the agreement until it petition to the NLRB in Indianapo­

is finalized because of the legal lis requesting an election for food 

aspects involved. He added, "If service employees so as to deter­

the union's goal is to be interested, mine if they want to be unionized." 

in embarrassing the University, well, that's not a very positive The umt determination for theaspect to take." 

groundskeepers has not been de· Lawrence said at one time he cided. After the size of the unit is thought Notre Dame might prolong settled by the NLRB, an election for litigation but, "I guess with all the unionization can be held. "We are witnesses and ammunition the proceeding under an .assumption NLRB had, the University probably that the Food Service is a separate 
Nemeth. to speak 

SMC hosts business seminar 
by Sue Dallmann The purpose of the seminar i~ to provide basic information for On Thursday, May II. Saint women who plan to start their own Mary's and the U.S. Small Busi­business or who want to improve an ness Administration will co-spon­existing business. The morning sor a "Women in Business Semi­sesion of the seminar will cover nar," according to Claude Ren­topics such as sight selection, shaw, program coordinator for marketing, advertising, record Saint Mary's. keeping. and franchising legal 
this friday and every fnday 5:15 mass & supper 
Oil 
'''"'P••·· 
"llllo ..try 

LLJ :r: J­ND SMC  THE MIKAOO Gilbert and Sullivan's sparkling operetta. April28,29 May 4.5.6 8:00p.m  
THEATRE  Olaughlin Auditorium  


Phone 2844176 S1d!Foc!S1aff: $2.00 




aaDm•aa======================= 
Now Accepting Applications 
For St. Mary's Judicial Board '78-'79. Applications available in Room 166 La Mans. Any questions call Maggie 272-1355 
all Applications due Tuesday May 9 
There has also been a problem regarding follow-up of resolutions after they are passed on to the Vice-President for Student Affairs. Several proposals, such as the 24 hour LaFortune, were never heard from again. 
McKenna has indicated that he believes that a permanent follow­up committe should be established within the Council to trace the failure or progress after it leaves the Council. 
If such a committee can be established and if the CLC can define its areas of responsibility so that it is not addressing subjects foreign to its function of advisory council to the Vice-President for bargaining unit," Lawrence re­marked. 
Bull stated, "Notre Dame wants to get on with the unit determina­
tion (size of bargaining unit) so that the employees can decide if they want to be unioqized." 
He also remarked that "We would likeU-to continue improve­ment of working conditions but the 
matter  of unionization  puts  it  in  
limbo."  
An  NLRB  district  director  in  

Indianapolis must finalize the agreement. Lawrence said he expects finalization ''within a few days." 
Student Affairs, then the CLC might succeed where the SLC failed. 
Student Gov't to conduct newspaper drive 
Student Government will con­duct another off-campus news­paper drive for faculty members, University staff, and off-campus students from Tuesday through Thursday of next week. Papers can be dropped off in the bin in the C-3 parking lot, west of the stadium. No magazines should be brought. 
structure and credit laws. 

The speakers in the afternoon 
session will discus·s tiriancial plan­
ning. In addition, a representative 
from the U.S. Small Business 
Administration will be present to 
explain federalassistance. 

Peter J. Nemeth, mayor of South 
Bend will he the featured speaker 
at the the luncheon. He will 
discuss the "Economic Future of 
South Bend." 

Other speakers .will include Lisa 
A. Weiland. an attorney with the law firm Thornburg. McGill. Deahl, Harman, Carey, and Mur­ray; Margaret Andrysiak. director of personnel for American National Bank of South Bend; Glenda Lam­ont. a senior accountant with Coopers and Lybrand; Margaret Dineen, a professor of marketing at Saint Mary's; Susan Williams. a franchising consultant from Indi­anapolis; and Linda Wolfe and Lahonw Yates from the Small Business Administration. Repre­sentative~ from the Service Corps. of Retired Executive will also he present. 
"The Women in Rusiness Semi­
nar is p;1rt of a series of programs 
sponsored bv Saint Mary's aimed 
at women in the community," 
Renshaw stated. Other workshops 
in the series have included "Man­
agement Skills for Women" and 
"The Woman as Leader." 

"The main difference between 
the Women in Business Seminar 
and the two previous workshops 
will be the source of the people 
attending," Renshaw stated. 

The women on Thursday will be from small business coming on their own time, whereas previously the women were sponsored by their respective corporations inorderthat they could work their way up the corporate ladder by improving their skills and style, he explained. 
The Small Business Administra­tion sponsors a number of seminars of this type throughout the state at the various colleges. "However, the seminars are always aimed specifically at women in businees, so this seminar is tailor made for Saint Mary's," Renshaw added. 
Renshaw noted that the program has been successful to this point and indicated that it will look toward expanding beyond the immediate South Bend area in the near future. 
·. 

Friday, Mav 5, 1978 the observer 
9 

Observer Review Top Campus Stories of the Year 


1 
*The Observer 
----~----~-" ...............,. .... 
6 
9
Howard fire rouses th~~~ do.r~_·­
---:::.:::::;:.-.......... GROUNDSKEEPERS UNIONIZATION 
~ ;;::;.E.:~·~ 

SNOW STORM J-BOARD PROPOSAL 
. :-r:::-.:z;:.t:-7:'!'.~ 
==-=:-=~
Controversy surrounding the attempt A U:1iversity decision in late August to 

A blizzard which dumped over 20 of 21 groundskeepers to unionize broke 
~::_::--::£ 
remove students from the University 

inches of snow on the Midwest and out at Notre Dame on Oct. 10 The 
judicial process caused concern among 

trapped many people in their homes for University announced its intention to fire 
:=::::;;;;=;;;_:.l~l 
student leaders. Student Body President 

up to one week. Roofs of several stores in the groundskeepers who were attempt­
~~] 
Dave Bender formed a committee of 

South Bend collapsed because of the ing to unionize with Teamsters Local 
students, faculty members and adminis­wet, heavy snow, and a state of 364. University officials stated they had trators to draft an alternative proposal to 

emergency was in effect in northern been plannmg for some time to contract 
give students some input in the process. 

Lldiana for five days. out for groundskeeping services and 
The controversial committee, initially 

ND-S.'v1C students weathered the would no longer need the present force 
opposed by Dean of Students James 

storm well and generally enjoyed the of workers 
Roemer, came up with a proposal that 

unexpected five-di..iy holiday. Classes In the following two weeks, a furor 
gave students a voice in choosing the missed a~ a result of the three-day,

t>

was raised by workers, students, and Judicial Review Board and that standar­
cancellation did nut have to be made up. faculty. Protest actions culminated in a 
dized hall judicial boards and discipli­Mass for Social Justice on Oct. 13 at the 
:"''-~,·-:·::. 

nary procedures in general. Grotto attended by 350 people. 
The proposal was approved by the Notre Dame subsequently withdrew 
Tocllly'Jiqueol rheOburr., 
Student Life Committee on Oct. 13 and
lslhel"tbeforabreak 
The ObserYer

its plans to lay off the 21 workers. In the sent to the University Board of Trustees,
will raume publlshln9 Mlorch 21. • 

10
following months, the controversy grew 
which approved the new rules on Oct. to engulf unionization of about 200 other 
21. University workers, the contracting out 
when a third-floor room caught fire on 


LOGAN BUDGET BATTLE of food servic:es to SAGA, Inc.,. unfair 
Sept. 10. All of the occupants' belong­

ings were lost. labor practice charges against Notre 
A $10 million budget cut by the

On Jan. 28, a fire in a lab of the Dame and hearings before the ~~ational 
Indiana State Budget Committee from Labor Relations Board. 
Chemical Engineering building de­

funds allocated in part to Logan Center The issue has not yet been resolved. 
stroyed laboratory equipment but did not 

brought a coordinated. eit·:>rt in late elevator shaft of Howard Hall on March 
affect the structure. A fire in the 

2 
September to fight aga11ist it. 16 caused smoke damage to the belong­
Following many letters of criticism ings of severla residents of Howard but 
from ND-SMC students and members of did only minimal structural damage. 
the South Bend community, as well as rallies and press conferences, the budgetBecause of the fires, a directive from committee unanimously voted to rein­state the funds on Oct. 14. Logan Center the Office of Student Affairs banned all 
lofts and paneling, beginning with the

COAL STRIKE '78--EFFECTS ON 
received an allotment of $700,000.
1978-79 school year. The directiveND/SMC sparked protest from students who 

believe that lofts are necessary to makeA 110-day coal miners str.1ke this dorm life tolerable.

winter almo~t forced Saint Mary's to close for an indefinitely extended spring break. 
11 
On March 23, after Indiana and OBSERVER EVALUATIONMichigan Electric Company {I & M) had 

announced mandatory 50 percent cut­
5 

When Tom Gryp, Student Union backs for all Michiana schools, College 
director,broughtcriticisms of The Obser­President John Duggan stated that Saint 
HELLMUTH-CIA 

ver to the Hall President's Council on Mary's had a "50-50 chance of closing," 
March 1, Student Body President Dave and revealed that the school would be 
John Marks, CIA critic, claimed in a 

Bender proposed to form a committee to forced to close if I & M reached a 30-day 
jan. 31 lecture that an ND Trustee acted 

evaluate The Observer. coal supply level. 
as a front for an illegal CIA operation. In 

Bender appointed a six-member com­However, the strike was settled before 
a Feb. 2 article, The Observer reported 

mittee of both students and facultyI & M had reached a 30-day supply level 
that Paul Hellmuth acted as president 

members to compile a report concerning so Saint Mary's was never forced to 
7
and director of an organization associ­

effectiveness of the newspaper and to close. 
ated with the CIA in illegal domestic BURTCHAELL RESIGNS 

offer suggestions for improvements.Notre Dame, which receives approxi­
spying, according to Marks 

The committe has not yet held a mately 25 percent of its power from I & 
Hellmuth refused to discuss the Fr. James T. Burtchaell, provost of the 

meeting.M but produces the other 75 percent at 
matter or the exact nature of the firm's 

University for seven years, announced its own power plant, implemented 
business. He denied ever having worked 

his resignation on Aug. 25. He returned voluntary 15 percent cutbacks on March 
for the government. 

to the theology department, which he 21, but was otherwise unaffected by the 
The Observer reported on March 3 

originally joined in 1966. strike. 
that, according to The New York Times, 
The South Bend Tribune later report­officers of the National Student Associa­
3 
ed that the ND Board of Trustees tion admitted they had received secret 
opposed Burtchaell's succession to the funds from the CIA and that Hellmuth 
University presidency, a promotion built served as one of their contacts with the 
into the provost position. Campus 
intelligence agency. Hellmuth again 
sources· told the Tribune that Burt­denied having worked for the govern­

chaell's resignation was not voluntary. SAINT MARY'S RAPE 
ment. 

Burtchaell made no public statements concerning his resignation. Two Saint Mary's students were raped as they walked from SMC to Notre Dame 
*The Observer 

along Saint Mary's Road on Nov. 8. 
While the victims helped develop a 
Marks links trustee to CIA activities 

composite sketch of the assailant, a 
8

suspect was never apprehended. The incident followed three others in 
SMC PARIETAlS EXTENDED which ND-SMC women were assaulted 
Saint Mary's parietal hours wereearly in the semester The outbreak of extended from 12 midnight to 2 a.m. onattacks prompted many people to ques­Friday and Saturday nights by SMCtion and insist upon changes in security President John M. Duggan on April 19.

measures. some of which were lighting, The extension, the first since 1975 whenchanging the route of the shuttle bus, Duggan extended parietals from 10 p.m.
and increased frequency of Security to midnight, was the end result of a
patrols.1----------------------1 
4 
two-year campaign by the Saint Mary's Student Government. 
12
Mary Rukavina, 1977-78 student body president, gave the final impetus to the 

PACZESNY RESIGNS extension by putting the motion before 
Bro. Just Pacz,esny, vice-president for 
the Student Assembly last October. 

Student Affairs at Notre Dame for the The new policy was to be put on a trial 
past four years, announced his resigna­FIRES basis for the remainder of the spring 
tion Feb. 14. Paczesny's resignation, In an unusual occurence, three fires 
semester and will be reviewed during 

effective June 30, will enable him to struck campus this year. Over $40,000 
the summer. It is expected to continue 

accept a position in the diocesan Office of damage was done to Morrissey Hall 
next year. 

Education in Phoenix, AZ. 




10 the observer Friday, May 5, 1978 


Observer Review 
Top National Stories 
1 
COAL STRIKE NATIONAL 
Thousand of United Mine Workers (UMW) coal miners went on strike December 5 as a result of disputes over contract negotiations with the Bitumi­nous Coal Operators Association (BCOA), the major coal industry group representing 130 companies. 
The walkout, which involved 160,000 miners and lasted over three months, caused mandatory power cutbacks in several states, including Indiana, as well as forced school closings and widespread business lay-offs. 
On March 6, President Jimmy Carter invoked the Taft -Hartley Act in an attempt to force miners back to work. However, miners didn't comply and the Act was never enforced. 
The strike. which lasted 110 days, ended in the third week of March. The walkout was the longest in the history of the UMW. 
2 
MORO KIDNAPPED 
The Red Brigade, Italy's most feared terrorist group, kidnapped former Italian Premier Aida Mora on March 16, and killed five bodyguards in a street ambush in Rome. 
The terrorists, who still hold Mora somewhere in Italy, have threatened to execute him if 15 Red Brigade leaders are not released from prison. The Italian government, including the Christian Democratic Party --of which Mora was the leader --and the Communist party, has refused to bargain with the extreme leftist Brigades. 
A massive manhunt by 50,000 police and soldiers has failed to locate Mora. 

~-------------------------L--________________________L_________________________-L------------~-----------~ 
Rev. Robert Griffin 

Court Chaplain to Camelot 
Once upon a time four years ago, the dearest class I ever knew graduated from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, after a springtime when the tears flowed like the wine at a marriage feast in Cana. l was graduating myself that year, moving from the Rector's job at Keenan to a role of ministry as the University Chaplain. I lived with Seniors who hated ·leaving Notre Dame just as I hated leaving a job that gave me an identity as a campus father. The theme songs of that springtime were "What'll I do," from the current movie The Great Gatsby, and "If Ever I Should Leave You," from Camelot, which l saw for the first time when it played that April on campus. My campus sweetheart was a Saint Mary's girl named Debbie, whom I adored as much as Gatsby adored Daisy, the difference being that Debbie was more worthy of adoration. Debbie, for me, was (and is) the symbol of the gleaming, shimmering universe as it is locally cherished. Having her leave was to lose the heartbeat that keeps an experience from .becoming a lost dream and a faded memory. 
What'Ill do/when you/are far away 
And 1/am blue,/what'lll do? 
A number of us, that spring, sang those lyrics over and over, without finding an answer. On Graduation Day, when I was about to become the rector emeritus of Keenan and just starting to be the University Chaplain, I asked Debbie for the last time what I would do when she was far away, and I was blue, what would I do? The bleak answer came back as an echo from my own loneliness: "Nothing; there was nothing at all I could do." I feared that a happy, productive time of my life was gone. April and May were over; the summer, it 
seemed, had ended A cool, crisp autumn day dawned when I knew it was 
time to  cover  the swimming pool  and  
take  in  the  rubber  rafts,  as  in  the  
imagery of Fitzgerald's novel.  

Now, four years later, I'm saying other sad goodbyes to a Senior named Mary, who entered Notre Dame as a freshman in the fall after Debbie graduated. The cynic will murmur, "You are shallow, Griffin," or maybe the cynic will never believe that I loved any girl at all. I could tell that cynic a thing or two about the girl with a garden in her face who remind me most of the pinkness of a rose, and of the dimples that play games with her face as though they were butterflies opening and closing their wings in her cheeks. Mary knows that I love her, even ifthe cynic laughs at the silliness of the pretension. In my love for Mary is mirrored my affection for a class who 
have been Notre DW students for all the 
four years I h~n the University 
Chaplain. --~­
Students often ask, "What does the University Chaplain do, anyway?" It's a question I avoid answering, because ·1 have no answer that amounts to much. In addition to commitments begun when I was rector, I have tried to be visible in a· ministry that dates me with the Class of '78: Darby's Place; Masses in LaFor­tune during Advent and Lent; Sunday evening liturgies at LeMans Hall; special celebrations with the children; and over a thousand letters written personally and individually to off-campus Seniors, ask­ing to share with them a lunch or a supper, a drink or a cup of coffee. As a result of those letters, I have entertained and been entertained, at occasions that made the days as wonderful as any I 
3 
PANAMA CANAL 

The Senate narrowly approved two treaties transferring control of the Panama Canal from the United States to Panama. Both treaties, the first appro­ved on March 16 and the second on April 18, passed by margins of only one vote more than the necessary two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. 
The votes were a crucial victory for 
President Jimmy Cater's foreign policy. 
The treaties guaranteed the neutrality of the waterway, which will come under Panamanian control in the year 2000. Negotiations on the pact were begun over five years ago and were bitterly opposed by conservative groups in the U.S. 
4 

ISRAELI ATTACK INTO LEBANON Conflict flared in the Middle East on March 14 whPn Israeli forces crossed 
--·· into Lebanon to wipe out Palestinian guerilla bases in the largest Israeli operation since the 1973 Middle East war. The incursion into Lebanon followed a guerilla raid in Israel in which 33 Israelis were killed, but was termed more than mere retaliation. Fighting between Israel and Palestinian forces in southern Lebanon was ended several weeks later by a ceasefire and a United Nations peacekeeping force. 
5 

SADAT'S PEACE EFFORTS On Nov. 19 Egyptian President Anwar Sadat made an unprecedented trip to Israel in an attempt to bring peace to the Middle East. Although Sadat received support from many nations, his trip infuriated other Arab leaders. The next day Sadat addressed the Israeli pari iamentstating that Egypt was willing to co-exist with Israel in peace. President Jimmy Carter applauded Sadat's efforts, saying the trip might break the barriers to peace. 
had ever known as rector. Four years ago, friends were afraid I was leaving Notre Dame. To tell the truth, not being rector seemed like the next thing to leaving. Rectors, after all, have a specific work to do, but chaplains have work to do only if people let them. You have to be invited to serve as somebody's guru. Some of you have told me that I have been of service, but I think most of you have not suspected how I have regarded you as God-children whom, as a minimum obligation, I pray for constantly. Administrators said: "You can be the University Chaplain"; but they couldn't tell me what a chaplain's work is; they expected me to find that out for myself. So I have spent days and nights trying to care for you. 
Sometimes, the caring shows, I think; at other times, it is as hidden in the heart as love. But the caring has been there, as faithful as I can make it, manifesting itself as a shy hello, a word of encouragement, an inquiry after happi­ness, a hope wordlessly nourished, a Mass offered, a candle lighted at the Grotto, ..a hundred dollar dinner tab picked up at the University Club, paid for with money I have earned on my own. 
Now, as you graduate, I know some­thing about you. I know that you are men and women worthy of Sarin's dream, or perhaps even more worthy than Sarin himself. Few of us here are, or have been saints. The work of the University has been carried on, decade after decade, by everyday people who have trusted God to turn our poorest gifts into the service of heaven. None of us here have deserved you. Like ordinary parents who have sired extra­ordinary children, we thank God for you, 
and wonder where your endowments have come from. You are not young gods and goddesses, but your are as decent as men and women can be. Hand on to your decency; don't let it get soiled too soon. The world does not intend to treat you gently, but try as hard as you can to defeat the world before it can claim you as a failure. 
There are hundreds of students I could speak of as friends. I can't hug all of them, but I can hug Mary, and see in her all the goodness and beauty that is typical of you. 
The dearest class I ever knew was graduated in 1974. But all of you are just as dear, because you belong to the places of my heart and mind where the Class of '74 and the Class of '78 will always be Seniors together. 
What' III do/when you/are far away And I am blue,/what'lll do? 
It's funny that I should have imagined I could ever lose anyone I love. It's amazing that I could imagine those friends would ever leave me. They have never left; they have just moved over, that's all. If ever they should leave me, it wouldn't be in sprintime. There have been four springtimes, and they haven't left me yet; on campus, as in Camelot, I thinkg they will never leave me at all. 
Those sound like words I started singing once, when I was afraid nothing would be left me worth singing about. That was four years ago when I was just beginning my appointment as court chaplain to Camelot. If you should be in Manhattan this summer, please come to call on me at St. Joseph's Church, 372 Sixth Avenue, Greenwich Village. Phone: 212-741-1274. 
an SCHEDULECHANGEDATSACRED
«;C!II)PUS HEART CHURCH
m1n1Stry 
Beginning the first Sunday of the Summer Session, June 25th, the Mass schedule will change in the Main Church. New Sunday Mass times will be: 9:15 am, 10:30 am and 
12:1spm. 
----, 
Anyone interested in being a contact/buddyJ 
to an incoming transfer student I I
next semester, 
I 
I I 
please call Chris (1 052), Carey (6877), or Mandy (7815) by Friday May 5 

ATTENTIONI SOPHOMORES 
Place your ring order before you leaue or SUMMER VACATION· This will assure you of hauing it when you return to school in the fall 
HOURS: 9:00 A.M. TO 4:30 P.M. 
MON·-FRI. IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

F 1978 
Observ~er Review 

1974 marks the End of an Era 

Parseghian. 
I guess if there was ever anyone so rdentifiable with Notre Dame that mere sight of him conjured up imag golden domes, robed priests with balls in hand and great football t was Ara Parseghian. Ara P and Notre Dame. They w~nt together like ham and eggs, like Laurel and Hardy, like blue, or green, and gold That is the power of tl-,e America'l media as it relates to Notr<: Dame football. 
By the time tne Clacs of 1978 had enrolled at 1\Utre Dame, Coach Ara Parseghian bad become a hero in the minds of ll1'ny of us. I hadn't seriously even corvrdered coming to Notre Dame until th: spring of my senior year in high 
.schr·'l. yet, at the time, I regarded Ara Pa·~an as some sort of athletic idol whose e).~essed idea:s made him so readily ideritftnQ!.e \', rth the American public H:s chari~a and fortitude extended beyond the fo0ball field. So that v.~ren I was applvrng t• Notre Dame and camE to the sect ron ~ • .,re I v. as asked to narne an~ one I knev. 1~0 Wd\ at 
Notre Dame, I was almo~t tem.:ted to write in Ara Parseghian ·~ nan,· I thought I knew him. 
Before coming to Notre Dame. a good number of us must have heard of the football coach at Notre Dame. We kr,..:,v of the respect he generated among · , ' players and the fame of NotrP ·; ;.orl football that he did so much t:' ' c>rnote by only doing his JOb W<> .~;",knew of the great winning tr"an .~ hl-had coached over the year~ and th(-~nde he had taken in the lrves of "hi~ men. the most vrvid memorres I have of Notre Dame football are the 1966 Michigan 

Ara Parseghian, players, and coaches look on from the sidelines during the '74 season. State game, the USC game in the rain in 
1970 and the USC and Sugar Bowl 

by MontE~ Towle years later, making our exit as Notre undefeated season and probable Nation­contests of 1973. And yet, the most 
Sports Writer Dame undergraduates with another al Championship in 1964. Only a Craig memorable picture I have of each of 
National Championship in our grasp. It Fertig to Rod Sherman touchdown pass these contests is that of Coach Ara 
all began with Ara Parseghian. with 1:33 left in the fourth quarter had Parseghian on the sideline. The majority 
This year's senior class has the Most of us seniors were in the third allowed the USC Trojans to ruin Ara's of us had also heard of the great interest honorable distinction of being the last grade when Parseghian took over as first year dream. he took in all Notre Dame students and undergraduate class still at Notre Dame head football coach at Notre Dame. That How many times in the 1960's and how he could occasionally be spotted to have been enrolled at Notre Dame was in 1964 and although most of us early 1970's did we turn on our television strolling on campus only to stop and talk during Ara Parseghian's reign as head were probably too young to really take a sets to watch college football, either on with students on their way to and from football coach at the helm of the Fighting serious interest in college football, we Saturday afternoons or Sunday mornings class. In coming to Notre Dame in 1974, Irish. Now that is a mouthful, but it probably at least heard our parents talk and see this darkhaired, fortyish, Arme­we were coming to the school of Ara certainly does say a lot for the illustrious about that new head football coach out at nian man with a Notre Dame pullover Parseghian and certainly, that had a lot Class of 1978. We came here in the late Notre Dame. Ara had· taken over a sweater on him standing on some to do with the aura of Notre Dame upon summer of 1974 knowing that Notre Fighting Irish team that had struggled sideline? He stood for college football in our first arrivals...Thanks for staying on Dame was defending a National Cham­through the early 1960's and then taken America. He was head football coach at at Notre Dame for our freshman year, pionship in football and here we are, four it to within a minute and a half of of an Notre Dame. He was, and is, Ara Ara. 

Different typesof hair need different types of care. 
When your hair needs help, uon·t try to do it yourself. Let us exall'l\r~e your hair (we suggest a harr analysis), then condition it professionally with the Redken product we helieve will do your hc1ir the most good. 
vVhen you need help with yorrr hair, you need someone whose profession is hair care. Make an appointment for a profes­
sional Redken conditioning treatment today. 
j 





11-EHAA~ 
121 s. St.loLis ~ 
2344343 .· 
. 1 
t 
) 



by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Emeritus 

·he 1 "77-78 school year was one that 
otre Dame sportsenthusiasts had been wa'iting for for a long time. The length of time from last May's Blue-Gold game to the 1977 season opener against Pittsburgh on September 10 seemed to take an "ternity. 
Notre Dame was tabbd as preseason favorites to win the Nation:al Champion­ship by many reliable sour"es. Irish supporters thought that Not·~ Dame. could accomplish what 1t had not ~ne in four years.
The game against the Panthers ~ .., a typical opening game, w1th the _Ins,, demonstating a lack of exP,~e enroute to a 19-9 triumpr~-Many speculated that had ~.M"Cavanaugh not been hurt, Pittsbugn would have won Regardless, th.f' Irish c.tme through in the end th..nks to some tenacious 
move. Notre Dame had had three 
straight road games, a difficult task for 
even the greatest of teams. It would be a 
comfort to have the Irish home again in 
the confines of Notre Dame Stadium. 
With the momentum gained in the 
Purdue game, there was no telling what 
could happen. 
Well, Michigan State has always provided Notre Dame with a tough battle. It was the Spartans who dealt Dan Devine his first loss as Irish mentor. 
Once again, Michigan State lived up to.• · their past performances. ,.-· 
Notre Dame showed signs of b.~'•1liance throughout the clash . h.nt, a pair of fumbles .nv. ·J~,e two yard line ended a C9J.!I~Ie of Notre Dame scoring attempts. 
The final outcome found the Irish on top, 
16-6, but a good amount of errors and 
turnovers left many questions. 
Notre Dame then had one sabbatical, a seven day stretch they put to good use. On October 15, when the Irish returned to the gridiron, many of the fans on hand 

were amazed when they saw the Irish 
gridders wearing green uniforms, an 
event which had not taken place since 
1958. 

The score, 49-19, will be long remem­b~>red in the hearts of Notre Dame fans. It nelped erase the feeling of t~r~e stralght losses to the Twjans, especially a 55-24 wh.;."-t .vashing in 1974. The lris"h plav.R:'a almost flawless football, some­tf\ing that the green machine would 
'continue to do for the next several weeks 
and rekindle their hopes for a National 
Championship 

The Navy game was the following 
Saturday, and with most of the students 
away for break and after the convincing 
win over Southern Cal, many thought the 
Irish would suffer a typical letdown. But 
this 43-10 rout was certainly not indica­
tive of a letdown. 

The next weekend, the students wPre 
back on campus and ready to see il their 
team could continue the supernatural 
performance that they demonstrated 
against Southern Cal 

Georgia Tech entered Notre Damt· Stadium and the Irish had a lot of motivt· in this contest, trying to avenge last year's 23-14 loss in Atlanta. The Irish reached the scoreboard first on a Montana sneak, but missed the extra point. It left the Irish with a 6-0 lead. The Ramblin Wreck struck back imme­diately with a 97 yard kick-off return by Eddie Ivery, and the subsequent extra point gave Tech a 7-6 advantage. What appeared to be a closely contested battle in the opening period would eventually turn into a romp. 
Montama would go on to throw tJ-.ree touchdown passes as the Irish embar­rassed the Yellow Jackets 69-14. The other teams in front of Notre Dame in the poles all were big winners this weekend, so the Irish remained fifth. 
The next Saturday was to be a major test for the Irish as they made their first appearance in Death Valley against the University of Clemson. The Tigers had suffered only one loss, that being their opening game against Maryland. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a quick 7-0 lead and were on the move again when Reeve missed his field goal attempt. \\>,?It \s when t'ne 'oallgame turned around and the Tigers appeared to have new life. By the end of the third quarter, Clemson led 17-7. 
Regardless ot three periods of medi­ocre play, the Irish truly demonstrated the national champnonship caliber when they overcame a great deal of diversity to capture the contest. Notre Dame rallied for 14 points in the final frame to stun the Tigers and the partisan Death Valley crowd 21-17. 
The following week the Irish enter­
tained Air Force, a team that was 
playing their final game for retiring 
coach Ben Martin. Only a victory over 
the Falcons lay between Notre Dame and 
a bowl invitation The game ended as 
expected; the Irish shot down the 
Falcons without any problem 49-0. 

After a week off, the Irish travelled to 
Miami to battle the Hurricanes. Notre 
Dame had already secured their bid to 
play in the Cotton Bowl after the Air 
Force clash. During their weekend off, 
Notre Dame received their confirmation 
that they would be playing Texas, thanks 
to the Longhorn victory over Texas 
A&M. 

Against Miami the lmh looked awe­
some in the opening minutes and then 
appeared to let up, allowing the Hurri­
canes to cut the I'Jotre Dame lead to 
14-10. But, by the time the affair was 
over. the Irish had captured win number 
ten 48-10. 

The grand finalt> was in the making. 
Everything the lnsh wanted was materi­
alizing. They were getting to play the 
only undefeated team tn the country, a 
squad that was currently ranked number 
one in the land. 

The Longhorns were favored and even 
the Texas players thought they would 
have little trouble disposing of the lnsh 
and capturing the National Champion­
ship. But, some of those comments only 
made Notre Dame preparation ea~ier 
The Irish were so mentally high on th1~ 
occasion that Devine sti!!ed, "We could 
have beaten any team m the country 
today." 

Yes, the Irish could do nothing wrong. 
Reeve'~ 47 yard boot early in the first 
quartP.r brought some relief to Notre 
Dame enthusiasts, seeing that the Irish 
could reach the scoreboard. The day did 
not stop at 3-0 thou1~h, as the passing of 
Montana .and the running of Vegas 
Ferguson and Ht!avens enabled the 
Irish to rustle over the Longhorns for a 
38-10 victory. 

The following day, Notre Dame was informed that they were the unanimous choice for National Champions. Al­though they believed it right after the game, this was the written testimony. 
The goal of the coaches and the team had finally become a1 reality. After so~e tough times, the Irish had put everythmg together and acheived their goal m the 
end. These are the moments that people like totreasure. These were the times that the Fighting Irish earned. Yes, 1977 will be a gridiron se,ason to remember. 

defense and some clutch place-kicking 
by Dave Reeve. 
The following weekend was not to be 
as fortunate for the Irish as the Rebels 
from Mississippi took it out on the 
Northerners, 20-13. Whether it was lack 
of emotion or preparation, or whether it 
was due to the heat and humidity, the 
Irish leveled their record to 1-1. 
Purdue, in retrospect, was probably 
the turning point of the season. 
Boilermaker quarterback Mark Hermann 
was connecting on aerials for the first 
three quarters, giving Purdue a 24-14 
advantage heading into the final stanza. 
But then, someone who could out 
perform Hermann made his appearnce. 
Joe Montana entered the contest at the conclusionof the third Quarter. By the time the final gun sounded, the Irish were on top 31-24. Montana. displaying the same brilliance he showed in the 1975 games against North Carolina and Air Force, had led the Irish back again. Now, many felt the Irish were on the 
in Giant Stadium in the Meadowlands ·were amazed at Notre Dame's offensive 
showing. 
Many were expecting to get past Army 
without a great deal of difficulty, but 
there was something different in Notre 
Dame's approach. Devine's usual 
wing-T offense was there, but there was 
also something new. Notre Dame had 
instituted the )-formation. Jerome 
Heavens used the set to his advantage, 
rambling for a Notre Dame high of 200 
yards rushing in the contest. The Irish 
ended the game with a 24-Q triumph, but 
this was to be only one of several new 
additions made to the Irish attack before 
the clash with Southern Cal the next 
Saturday. 
The October 22 battle with the Trojans 
is something that will be remembered 
for a long time. The Irish were following 
their usual warm up before the game, 
but, when the team emerged from the 
locker room before kickoff, the 59,075 
fans that packed Notre Dame Stadium 


you'd' like to 

if any of the above answers are YES­
.call 6413 or 7668 in thE~ af\emOOil. 



Observer Review 

Friday, May 5, 1978 the observer 13 

:·····························­
: HELP~ WANTED! : 
: Part-time positions available : 
~-1hw. SU":J":J_~r and next school year! : RIVER C~ITY RECORDS/ : :THE RIVER CITY REVIEW: • Call Peter Kernan • : at 277-4242 for an appointment : 
11.11 GOJ.D GAME SPD:IAL 10-2 
CORBYS WRL OPEN rrs DOORS AT 10 Al!f SAT 

...1 ~ 

.... 
bbody mays 50¢ 
drafts 35¢ camed beer roe 

WIIID B our TIDE U. IE DdE IB"AT Diifnlm FilM liSI'BIYEJIR IIIAMIIi ~ 
~------------~----------
~ . 
NEXT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
HELD OVER~nd WEEK 
Can 22 hotellloors, 42 guards,157 cops, 390 bantcades and, 3,000 hysterical fans keep these kids from getting to the Beatles? 
NOWAY! 
Showtimes ~ 
Weekdays~? :20-9:30 Sat.Sun­1 :30-3:25-5:30-7:45-9:50 


EW­
l4 the observer £riday, Mav 5, 1978 
Observer Review 

Phelps' Crew reaches Final Four 
by Tim Bourret  trend in this  season  it  was  the team's  ever.  Phelps' patience and substitutions  Shumates and Adrian Dantleys never led  
Sports Writer  ability to win at home.  The Irish ripped  finally paid off.  a team to the national simifinals.  
off nine victories in a row, seven of them  Thus far you  may have noticed that  The trend should continue next year.  
It  was  truly  an  amazing  1977-78  in the ACC at midseason.  For the year  players' names have not dominated this  Balance should again be the key work.  
basketball season for Notre Dame.  You  Digger Phelps' team won 16 out of 17 in  article.  That is an indication of the type  Eight of the top 10 scorers representing  
never  knew what Digger Phelps' upre­ the  friendly  Athletic  and  Convocation  of team  Notre  Dame  had.  It  is  not  65  percent  of  the  points  scored  will  
dictable Irish  were  going  to do  next.  Center.  coincidental that this Notre Dame team  return  in 1978-1979. With few incoming  
"J eckle and Hyde" is probably the best  No  one  can  say  enough  about  the  did not have a star player and that this  freshmen  there will  not  be  as  long  a  
way  to  describe  a team  that  can  beat  positive effects the Notre Dame student  team  went  farther  in  the  NCAA  tour­ waiting period  before everyone  learns  
UCLA at Pauley Pavilion and advance to  body has on the basketball team.  Notre  nament than any other Irish five.  Notre  each others moves.  
the final four of the NCAA tournament  Dame's  winning  streak  in  the  ACC  Dame teams of recent years had many  The Irish finally made it to the final  
but still, lose to a 11-item beaten South  reached 22 games before DePaul  came  stars,  but  the  Austin  Carrs,  John  four.  It shouldn't be the last time.  
Carolina that lost to Portland University,  from behind to register a 69-68 overtime  
one of Notre Dame's little sister schools  triumph last February 12. Over the last  
111 the Fc~r W~st  f1ve and half years Digger's teams have  
In some sec~ sons you can cite  reasons  won 78 out of 84 at Notre Dame.  Since  
tor  slumps or disatisfactory play.  Key  they  began  playing  basketball  in  the  
intunes.  ~1ckness,  or  suspensions  have  ACC in 1968 they have won  119 of 143  
hamperf'd  Notre  Dame  teams  in  the  contests, an  .832 winning percent?ge.  
past. But 11 1s d1fficult to come up with a ~ubst.Hl!i.JI explclndtion for the tenden­cies ot t h 1s Notre Dame basketball team. rhis w.1~ " cluh that from Sunday to Saturd.1y could rhange from an unstop­pable f1VP thc1t downed the nation's best club to .1 nwd1ocre bunch that couldn't stay with a team that failed to qualify for ttw NCAA torunament.  After a victory over Fordham at Madison Square Garden Mr Hyde returned to the Notre Dame team. South Carolina used a confusing zone defense to best the Irish in Columbia, while Dayton held Notre Dame to a season low 59 points in the Flyers' biggest victory of the season.  
Inconsistency seemed to infect the Pntire outfit There was no real star of the 1977-78 Fighting Irish and this hurt and helped to team The Irish won their first six games Impressively, especially m a victory over UCLA in Pauley Pavilion. Optimism was the most used word, because everyone was doing his part. Bill Laimbeer had been a question mark before the season began because he had not participated competitively for a year and a half. But against the Bruins he led us all to believe that he had not lost his outside touch, his board strength or his affinity for executing strong accurate outlet passes. Laimbeer was the dominating force in the 69-66 Irish victory over UCLA last December 10. The 6-11 center scored 11 points, grabbed 12 rebounds and blocked a Notre Dame record-tying six shots. Frontline mate Dave Batton was also outstanding in Notre Dame's second consecutive upset victory at the sacred hall of UCLA basketball. The 6-9 senior  In between those loses were impres­sive victories over eventual NIT runner­up N.C. State and defending National Champion and then number-one ranked Marquette. Defense was Notre Dame's forte in both wins. The Wolfpack shot only 35 percent from the field, while Marquette, who exploded to a 14-point lead in the first half, scored only 20 points in the second half of Notre Dame's 65-59 win. With the victory over the Warriors Digger Phelps' fifth straight NCAA appearance was assured But, Notre Dame fans were not overly optimistic about Fighting Irish chances in the tourney. After all the Irish season had followed thP same pattern as previous years; win the first five or six games, lose at Kentucky, split four games, upset UCLA at home and finish with 11 victories in the last 13 games to qualify for the tournament on the next to the last weekend of the season. But this Notre Dame team had something going for it that no other had,  
scored a then career high-tying 22 points on 10 of 13 shooting and grabbed eight rebounds. Laimbeer and Batton com­ balance. Everyone criticized Digger Phelps for his constant substituting during the regular season. A record 11  
bined  to  dominate the  Bruins  veteran  players averaged over eight minutes per  
front wall.  game  this  season.  Four  players  
Only four days later the same domina­ting duo scored on only 10 of 27 attempts and had difficulty stopping freshman center Ray Tolbert, a leathery youngster who powered his way for four crowd­arousing dunks in Indiana's 67-66 victory  averaged in double figures all year, while six different players led the team in scoring at one time or another. Nine different players started at one time or another. while eight players scored in double figures at least four times.  
in Bloomington.  Although  passes  went  awry  and  
After a romp over lowly St. Joseph's of  players missed assignments on  defense  
Indiana the temporary slide continued.  early in the season, everyone got used to  
Kentucky and San  Francisco,  two top­ each  other  by  the  tournament,  the  
flight teams downed the Irish 73-68 and  perfect time to peak.  Had Phelps  not  
79-70,  respectively.  Both  losses  played  everyone  early  in  the  season,  
occurred  on  the road,  where the  Irish  strong  second  half  showings  against  
split 10 games this year.  Utah, DePaul, Duke and Arkansas would  
But, when they returned home victor­ies came in bunches. If there was a  not have been possible. The result was Notre Dame's first NCAA regional title  Dave Batton drives on a Villanova defender during his senior season. [DOME photo]  

I ­
~ 
Office: (219) 233-8293 Home (219) 2tl7-3231 
" 'IT IS INTERESTING,' writes Garry Wills, reflecting on the fact that the neutron bomb was tested on rodents, 'that right-wingers who make fun of the effect of saccharin on mice are awed by the power of radiation to zap a mouse.' 



Right! Let'S For a tree cop~ of the cur­get to work rent 1ssue ot National 
BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
on a saccha-Rev1ew, wnte to Dept 0·6,. 
rio bomb." 150 East 35th Street. New .______.,York, New York 10016. 
CK NORTH OF STATE LINE ON U.S. :n 

OPEN: MON-THURS 9AM-11 PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS 

The Splendor of Carved Wood 
Only 1000 of these magn1f1cent dark walnut salln fin1sh. A g1ft to plaques will be reproduced from be proud of for your Pilr.e~ vT the original hand carving. Made yourself $50.00-{:'1'us $3.00 of high-density archilectural ure-handlln_s:! A i:;"mail brass plate en­thane. these plaques are 30 · w1de Jl'aved w1lh your name and class and 1'" th1ck. They have t';~ heft can be mounted at the bottom of oak, but will never warp· dry out for $8.00 additional. Please allow 
or  split.  Every  tmy Nood  gram  30 days for delivery Uncond11ional  
detail  1s  richly dCcented  by  the  money back guarantee.  
Oxford Plaque Co.  
Department  NDO  

4944 Rabbit Hollow Drive. Boca Raton. Flonda 33431 
a 

10 , 
Friday, May 5, 1978 the observer 15 
Fencers stab 2nd NCAA crown 

The Irish won their second NCAA Championship in fencing in two years this year. 
by Paul Mullaney Sports Writer 
It all started in 1934, when Pedro delandero was responsible for fielding Notre Dame's first competitive fencing team. However, it wasn't until last year­some 43 years later --that the national sword title was first brought to dulac. And, since current coach Mike DeCiccio couldn't leave well enough alone, his team stabbed for its second NCAA crown in as many years this March. 

Not only have two titles been strung back-to-back, but the Irish have won 85 consecutive duel matches. They haven't been on the losing side of the coin since January 22, 1975, when they fell to New York University, 16-11. This has caused many local followers to sense the start of something big. 
"Everybody talks about dynasties," admitted DeCiccio, who has compiled a 309-32 mark in his 17 years at the Irish sword helm. "We'll have very, very good teams if the trend continues and we get more Gerards, McCaheys and Sulli­vans." 
Gerard, McCahey and Sullivan --also 
known as Pat , Mike and Mike --are just 
a few of the many individuals who have 
played instrumental roles in the growth 
of the Notre Dame fencing team. 

Gerard, who will graduate with an engineering de!!ree this month, is best known for his dramatic win over Tom Valjasic of NYU in the 1977 national championships. Held at Notre Dame's ACC, the competition ended with the Irish and NYU at a 114 point deadlock, leading the team competition. NCAA niles called for the first ever fence-off to determine the team championship. The fence-off matched the three entries from Notre Dame and NYU. 
After Sullivan started things off with a 
3-5 sabre victory over stubbron Miklos 
Benedek, the pressure was on Gerard. 

Had Gerard been beaten by Valjasic, it 
would have left things up to epeeist Tim 
Glass to fence for the title. 

Valjasic had already knocked off Gerard, 
4-5, earlier in the competition. 

"I got up there, telling myself to keep 
cool," said Gerard. "People were on the 
edges of their chairs, but I knew that I 
was hotter than anything. I got in there 
and started hammering away. He didn't 
hit me the whole bout." 

"As soon as I hit him for the fast touch 
I didn't have a chance to move. I was 
completely mobbed. My arms were 
shoved back in my face and peopk were 
piling on top of me. It was great •• a 
once in a lifetime thing." It was also the 
A Look Back, cont. 
[continued from page 13) tragedy, but worse than that, another 
problem was to arise later in the season. Ara Parseghian would announce his retirement later in the year and shock 
the country. How could this be? I was only a freshman. Could Notre Dame do without a man fhat had brought their football program back to the top? 
The University wasted no time in hiring Parseghian's replacement, Dan Devine. Many were skeptical that Devine could ever fill in for a man that could stoo the snow at a football game. 
In Devi.ne' s first year, a 8-3 ledger left many individuals and alumni furious. But a coach and a team have to have time to adjust. One year cannot be the basis for a decision. The next vear was slightly better, and when the university accepted a bid to play in the Gator Bowl, things were improving. It was not one of the "major" bowls, But as Devine stated "It makes for a good start next year." 
After a great deal of anicipation, that year finally•arrived, the 1977 football season was upon us. After a shaky performance against Pittsburgh and a loss to Mississippi, the alumni were up m arms again. Jhe 17 point fourth quarter performance against Purdue seemed to turn things around and when the "Green Machine" made their debut in the Southern Cal game, people thought there would be nothing that could stop the Irish. 
Even Fred Akers and his Heisrnan Trophy winner could not dampen Notre Dame's holiday break as the Irish ran away with the Cotton Bowl and the National Championship. 
That contest in Dallas was the 
culmination of a lot of hard work and 
dedication. Even after the loss to 
Mississippi, although many people 
wrote oft he season, the players and 
coaches believed "in themselves. They achieved what many people thought was impossible. Sure they had a lot of help. Oklahoma did blow their chance, but there is a lot of luck in any game. For the Irish, things just happened to work out at the end. 
Football was very important for me here because I participated in it so much when I was younger. I was indoctrinated into the Notre Dame football spirit when I was small and it was a pleasure for me to be a part of it as a student. 
The way the Irish turned their season around this year will always be a great memory in my life. The team believed in themselves, they bel1eved they could do 
it. . 

I wrote in The Observer after the Mississippi game that although things looked terrible now, they could improve. One loss does not end the season. I truly believed, due to an overwhelming loyalty to Notre Dame, that the Irish could bounce back. Before the Southern Cal game I wrote in The Observer that if either team had a shot at the National Championship, they had to win this contest. Both teams had lost once and this was a must game before a national audience. 
The week before the game, Father Joyce spoke at Flanner Hall and I was truly amazed at one comment he made. He sa1d , 'Tm ·glad to see that The Observer still thinks we have a chance to be National Champions. Personally, I don't think so, not this year anyway." 
Well, I was stunned. Even if he actually felt that way, I don't think a man in his position should say such a thing. If the team and coaches felt that way, well, Father Joyce would have been right, the Irish never would have won the National Championship. 
You have to believe 10 one another '{otJ have lo try to be the best in everything you do. Not everyone will be overwhelmed with Notre Dame; it won't leave everyone in awe. You can make highpoint of Notre Dame fencing history. 
Not only did Gerard win 0-5 in that fence-off bout, but he earlier had won the gold medal in the foil. This year the senior from Norridge, Ill., tied Wayne State's Ernie Simon at the NCAA competition at Wisconsin-Parkside, and settled for second place after losing the fence-off bout. 
Gerard could never have been consi­dered a shoe-in to get the r:od to the nationals. McCahey and Gerard com­bined to give Notre Dame the top one-two foil punch in the nation for the last two years, and either of those two was very capable of bringing home the medal. In fact, McCahey finished first, just ahead of Gerard, at this year's Great Lakes tournament, which the Irish won. 
McCahey ranks fourth on all-time Irish foil list, while Gerard is perched in the second position, just behind his coach DeCicCio's 45-4 career foil record gives him a .918 percentage. 
Not enough can be said of Sullivan 
The junior from Peabody, MA, owns the 
highest all-time winning percentage in 
Irish fencing annals. His three-year 
slate of 141-2 stands clear above the 
pack. In addition to his regular season 
performances, Sullivan has won two 
consecutive gold medals in sabre, and, 
barring a miracle, will repeat the feat at 
next years finals. 

Sullivan was the only fencer to go undefeated in the NCAA tourney compe­tition this year, posting c 23-0 ledger. Thitt prompted DeCicco to comment "The only way Mike Sullivan will lose t~ any sabre man in the country will be if he decides not to fence sabre, and street fights. When he concentrates on sabre, nobody can beat him." · 
Assistant coach Ed DeVivo, who has worked strictly with the sabre team over the past three years, has designated Sullivan the "Bionic Arm." 
Nevertheless, many people have been a part of the gradual development of Notre Dame fencing. It takes time for anything to develop, and DeCicco will be the first to tell you that the current success has long been in the offing. 
"It's been a s.low cieve.lopment,:: "ne 
noted. "We've always had good teams. 
But the difference has been in the last 
seven or eight years we've got people 
starting young, with previous fencing 

E:xperience. "In the first 30 years we may have had 10 or 12 fencers with previous experi­ence. Now we have that many on the team at once. It has made us very, very competitive." All reason to believe a dynasty is in the making? 
your time here what you want. You can go out and become as much a part of du lac as you want. Just remember, no matter how dim a situation may look, things will improve if you really strive for that improvement. What happened in Mississippi is something which 1 think I've learned at my time at Notre Dame. Don't let one setback stop you from achieving your goals. Don't sell yourself short \ feel that all the people I've met and worked with have helped me realize that fact, and 1thank all of them for that and for making my four years at Notre Dame ones that I will never forget. 
Observer Review 
layout and Design: Debbie Dahrling and John Calcutt 

I 
I 
1 


' ._ 16 the observer Friday, May :J, 


,1 Warm itup-turnon Thejazz explosion is onCBS Records andTapes. 

MAYNARD FERGUSON 
hew~~ 
MainTille (From "StarWars") Marla (From "W..t Side Story") 
ScheheriWide/Dasi8/EI Vuelo (The Flight) 
JC 34971  
,-----­: J  ------~---------, Freddie Hubbard Bundle Of Joy including: From Now On/Portrait Of Jenny  

Tucson Stomp{From Behind/Rainy Day Song 
for 

JC 35332 
!Jst 
GEORGE DUKE DON'T LET GO 
including: Dukey Stick/The Way I Feel Morning Sun/Movin' On/Yeah, We Going 

5th Annual Midnight Madness Sale 
on Friday May 12 
Just For The Record 100 Center 
259-1813 
STANLEY CLARKE 
MODERN MAN 
inctuding: Rock 'N'Roll Jelly 
He lives On 
(Story About The last Journey Of A Warnor) 
GotTo Find My Own Place 
Dayride 
JZ 35303 
the 


RAMSEY LEWIS 
TEQUILA MOCKINGBIRD 

. including: Camrno El Bueno/Skippin·;That Ole Bach Magic Wandering Rose/My Angel's Smile 
Save $1.00 on EVERY LP & Tape 

Free Papers Free Polyliners Free Music 700 Watts Food & Good Times T-shirts 
Li J 


--·----·----~~----------------------.. 
.Friday, May 5, 1978 

letters to a lonely God 
The Most Unkindest Cut of All 
Michael Franks: BURCHFIElD NINES~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~giles luke cosmas korzenecki 
I wonder if it wouldn't be easier to get an appointment for surgery at the Women's Pavilion these days than to arrange to get a haircut. One suspects that the services of the Pavilion are easily available to any applicant who has the money. In a modern barber shop, I'm always expecting to be asked to take a blood test, produce major credit cards, and name a beneficiary or next of kin in case Istiouldexpire under the blow-dryer. 1 don't have much hair to speak of any more, but my dog, Darby O'Gill, answers fewer questions to qualify for stud fees than I do to be admitted as a customer to a modern barber shop. 
I belong to the generation that got sent, as kids, with a quarter to the local barber. He was to cut hair until the skin showed through. If he didn't cut the hair short enough or close enough, you got sent back until he did the job right, because there would be no more quarters available for another month or two for out-of-season trims, and parents wouldn't stand for kids looking as though they should be playing violins. Looking as though you should be playing a violin, by the way, was a local euphemism for saying you needed a haircut. Violinists, it seemed assumed, were shaggy, seedy-looking chaps. aliens to the protestant ethic, whom one should feel ashamed to resemble. I don't know why my parents and their friends thought so poorly of violinists; but kids who looked as though they should be playing the violin because their hair grew over their ears-­such kids should be nipped in the bud 
before they grew up to JOtn the ranks of the guys who chased butterflies. In my childhood, chasing butterflies was the sickest thing a person could do. Nobody ever explained to me what was wrong with chasing butterflies. My dog chases butterflies all the time, and it worries mt sick, though I don't know why it should. At least nobody has ever accused Darby of looking as though he should play a violin, though his hair is a lot longer than m~ne. 
I grew up never wanting to chase butterflies, and never wanting to look as if I played a violin. Those were probably healthy attitudes in the days when you could get a haircut for a quarter. How could parents in the Thirties know they were raising children who would be paying twelve dollars for a haircut? 
Yesterday, I decided to get a haircut. I thought: "I'll bung on over to the campus shop. I know it won't be easy to arrange, but maybe if I tell them I am a Very Important Priest planning a visit to the Pope, they'll take me.'' (I do plan on being in Rome very soon with the Glee Club. We're sure if the Vatican hears we're in town, they'll send for us.) I don't usually go to the campus shop, because (1) during the Vietnam war (it was imagined) campus barbers used to punish us peaceniks by giving us ROTC-style haircuts whether we wanted them, or not; and(2) the campus barbers gossip. They don't think you know that they gossip; but they do gossip, and you hear about it. Like all the barbers of 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
yesteryear in Small-town, crossroads of the nation, U.S.A., Notre Dame barbers carry on as though they were running the village well. I don't object to the fact that they talk; I'm just annoyed that they never tell me anything. 
Yesterday -morning, I thought: "You're a good priest, living a good life; you've got nothing to fear. Live with risk from the wagging tongues. Get a Notre Dame haircut." So I phoned over, asking for an appointment, trying to sound like a head coach. (Local barbers love cutting the hair of a Notre Dame coach.) The barber who answered said: "We can't take you until four o'clock." He never asked if I was from Notre Dame or where I had been getting my haircuts. He never asked who referred me to them. He just said: "We can't take you until four o'clock." I thought: "This is too easy. He should at least want to know my SAT scores. He should minimally ask if I want to be Afro or teased." Then I realized the shattering truth: The Notre Dame barber shop has NO STANDARDS; they'll take anyone, like the colleges known as diploma mills. I thought bitterly: "They probably would admit even violinists and butterfly-catchers to the Notre Dame chairs." No wonder the modern hair stylist is ashamed to be seen hanging around a striped pole 
The Notre Dame barber I talked to sounded like a decent man, like the barbers I knew as a child, who had reeked of 
Barbisol. (What ever happened to Bar­bisol and Burma Shave?) But I knew this 

man was never going to make it big. because he offered nothing in the way of snob-appeal. (You've got to admit: offering nothing in the way of snob-appeal is pretty lovable. Notre Dame barber, I never said I didn't love you.) 
Yesterday afternoon, at three o'clock, after failing to meet the standards in five different hair salons, I settled for a quick cut at the "Knights and Queens," in a building that looked like a castle from Camelot. 
When I shyly asked for the simplest services of a barber, the girl merely asked: "Do you mean you don't want it washed and blowed?" She probably could have summoned a fire-breatl1ing dragon to bounce me from the premises. Instead, neither washing or blowing, she gave me a very nice haircut. Now I look like a peacenik punished by a ROTC-style haircut during the Vietnam War. 
Men pay a lot more attention to their hair these days than they used to when I was a kid getting clipped for a quarter. That is why we have the modern hair-styling salon. In a society where the hairs of our head are numbered by guardians less cosmic than the Deity, it is certainly ironic we are losing our reverence for human life. It is easier to get an appointment :or surgery at the Women's Paviliot· 1hese days than to arrange to get a haircut. It is not the costs and complications of our hair-styling that make us a sick society. 

Kwite and Ohnley, the two tiny Amazing creatures that were introduced to you last week, are now ready to take on the musical world. Unfortunately, the Amazing Coun­cil was not present during this writing in order to facilitate needed debate concer­ning public appreciation and musical "validity," but Ohnley, the figurehead of the Amazing community who lives in Pangford Pavilion, and Kwite, his wife, carried a minute Giant-recorder with them while wondering through the Pavilion's nob-webbed walls last Saturday in search of new musical talent. The following conversation was recorded during, the evening. You readers out in academia must be forwarned. however. because Kwite and Ohnley couldn't consult the Council-elected members of that esteemed society had a holiday in commemoration of "Be Nice to Giants Day." This predica­ment undoubtably caused unmitigated bias and unnecessary ragging to pass into print, but when will it be possible to capture the true Amazings at their very best? We might never get a chance in the future to witness these g\ants-er--A.maz\ngs, during a time when their feelings are not contorted and convoluted by the Common Council's averaging jibber-jabber? With­out further remarks. therefore. let's let the Amazings do the talkine:,-about Michael Franks' latest "Burchfield Nines." 
Amazing,lsn't It? 
Kwite: Where do you think Mr. Franks concocted such a funny name for his third album, Ohnley? 
Ohnley: The liner notes claim that Mr. 
Burchfield was a water-color artist on the 
west ~oast who grew to fame after his 
death t.n 1967. I have a feeling Mr. Franks 
~sed hts name for the title of the album to 
hght the lamenting beacon of artists 
eve~here who never have a home of 
anythmg else to hold on to. I realize that 
so~e artists become wealthy during their 
lyncal heyday, b~t others must grope in 
the gutter . ~ hq~or and despair and produce thetr mtentional mutterings for an unworthy public who become aware of greatness only when it is gone. I can't say whether or not money spoils an artist for th":t certainly would not hold true for ~anyartists. but there seems to be a ·..
(..,treet 
correlation  these  davs  between  lasting  
greatness and non-commercialism.  I don't  
know, maybe I'm wrong.  

K: Well, Ohnley, what about Mr. Franks? 
0: Oh yes, do you remember when we were walking past 241 and heard that incredible ruckus that resembled the blaring. cantankerous, mechanical squeal of Maid Enid's vacuum cleaner? 
K: Yes, I do. That was Jed Spujent wasn't m 
0: Yes, it was. And do you remember that very mellow jazz voice and polyrhyth-Ernie Watts on tenor sax. the ethereal Leon Pandaris on keyboards, and Oscar Brashear on trumpet. Anyone who has never heard Mr. Franks' voice before should realize it always registers in the lower decibel range and can closely be described as a jazz voice. That is to say, now all his vocal harmonics are sung in major variations, .or in fine-line distinctions between being in tune and being somewhat out of tune. . His style is ve-ry unique, though. and I don't think I've ever heard anything quite like him in the past. People usually like him very much or they think his 

mic overtones that 1floateg out of 235? 
K:  Yf:s.  
0:  That wa s Burchfield  N ines!  
K:  Oh,  I  didn't  know  that was Mr.  

Franks. I thought it sounded familiar for I've heard his first two albums, "The Art of Tea" and "Sleeping Gypsy," but I wasn't absolutely sure it was Mr. Franks because Throp-the-Giant was playing some flako music in the room nearby and it interfered with my reception. 
''Eiurchfteid Nines" is a continuation of the Franks style and it is as aesthetically appealing as any of his earlier works. The only difference with this album and his last two is that he employs different musicians. Instead of using the Crusaders as a backup group, he uses John Tropea on guitar, a west-coast veteran; Will Lee on bass, George Harrison's four-string plucker; Steve Gadd on drums, a vanguard in his own rieht; Ralph McDonald on percussion, 
lyricism is too outlandish and his style too unpresumptious. I must admit, when I first heard him after taking a suggestion from a friend, I was confused as to whether of not I liked his style. Now, after listening to his breathy vocal tonality, vivaciously lewd lyrics, and superb musicianship, he has become one of my favorites. I wouldn't know if the Amazing Council would concur with my opinion, but sometimes they follow popular opinion, which is not nece~s~rily bad, but not necessarily good. Music ts such a personal thing. If it hits YOJI and gives you some sort of inspiration or some sort of 1satisfaction,, then it's great for you. I have tried many times in my ea~li~r daysj~ ~rgue for the greatness of musicians over other musicians, but it is 
simply impossible to convince someone if his mind is made up. 
K: Ohnley, you're getting carried away. What about some of Mr. Franks' songs? 

0: I thought I'd just overview some of the songs on the album or just list them and leave the rest of the musical tantalization up to the readers of the papers: if anyone wants to read them. There are eight songs on the album. "When the Cookie Jar is Empty,'" "A Robinsong," "Wrestle a Live Nude Girl," "Burchfield Nines," '"Meet Me in the Deerpark," "Dear Little Nightin­gale," ''In Search of the Perfect Sham­poo," and "Vivaldi's Song." I especially liked the bittersweet. tastefully done "Burchfield Nines," ''In Search of the Perfect Shampoo," and "Vivaldi's Song." "Vivaldi's Song" is one of the true classic lullaby-love songs that I have heard in a long time. You can get real cozy with a friend while sitting around listening to it sipping algols and watching eyes turn green. I also love John Tropea's Benson­like. sixteenth-note solo on "When the Cookie Jar Is Empty." Ernie Watts' blues ish tenor solo of "A Robinsong," Oscar Brashear's lovely flowing trumpet stint on "Burchfield Nines.'· and Bud Shanks' exhibited virtuosity on "Vivaldi's Song." . 
K:  We can't forget about his lyrics. can  
we?  
0:  Oh no.  Not at all.  How about:  
''Wrestle a Live Nude Girl"  

For twenty-five you get a live nude girl She can wrestle so obscene Ifyou got ten. you wrestle PolyeJ.hylene. 
''Meet Me in the Deerpark'' We can do a deer dance Underneath the Ginkgo trees. 
"In Search of the Perfect Shampoo" You threw me, you walked right up to ml: My follicles prayed it was true. Don't panic-we're pure organic No more medicated Goo. and "Vivaldi's Song" Our souls collide We slip and slide We feel no pain And with our lives locked together We weather the Wind and Rain. 

K: Oh, those are beautiful and so different! 
0: Aren't they though! Gosh, someday this Mr. Franks might become famous and I'll be sitting on top of the Pavilion's roof with a smile on mv face reveling in the fact that death didn't bring greatness, but the living did. 



Box Q Notre Dame Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admmistration of e1ther institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble Editorials represent the opinion of a ma1ority of the
Embodying 
Editonal Board Commentaries. opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression ot varying
the Spirit? 
opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged 
Dear Editor: EDITORIAl BOARD
First Hichard Lugar and now William F. Buckley-my what a den of hypocrisy Notre Dame has Tony Pace Ed1tor-in-Chief become. In one breath Notre Dame Steve Odland Managing Editor lauds prophetil· acts of justice and John Calcutt Execut1ve Ed1tor 
in another breath. it honors jus­Barb Langhenry Execut 1ve Editor tice's greatest antagonists. 
Rosemary Mills Editonal Editor It is fitting that Notre Dame Phil Cackley Cor\ Editorl!nnounce Mr. Buckley's speech at Jean Powley St. Mary's Ed1tor commencement on the eighth anni­Ann Gales News Editorversary of the Kent State murders. 
Mike Lewis News EditorWilliam Buckley epitomizes every­D1ane Wilson News Editorthing Christianity opposes-capital­
Ray O'Bnen Sports Editorism's unequal distribution of Bryan Gruley Features Editor
wealth, increased military spend­ing. less government spending on ~ocial ills, etc. I hope my fellow Friday, May 5, 1978 seniors will not sit idly by and let 

MalValediction 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKarl Kronebusch 
The end of a collegiate career is the time for farewells -some fond. some not so fond; some tearful, some filled with joy. Those farewells are so central to graduating that the giving of a farewell speech by a member of the graduating class -a valedictory -has become a permanent feature of commencement exercises. I will not be giving that speech this year; someone else has been chosen. Instead. I would like to present in this column my valediction -one aimed at the students, faculty, administrators. and trustees of Notre Dame -in order to formally mark my passage from "student" to "alumnus." 
My hope is to stir up debate about what ND could be and how it falls short, far short. of its potential, as well as to inform administrators and trustees what one student. who speaks for many, thinks of this place. If this essay is witty and irreverent in spots, it is because I am occasionally so. If this essay offends, it lies in the fact that this university, in its rules and administration, is often offensive. 
The first problem of Notre Dame is its male-female imbalance. Many claim that the "ratio" is not the key to the social situation here, pointing out that on any given weekend night, many girls do not have dates. Rather, they blame single-sex Catholic school backgrounds and certain attitudes among ND students. Those backgrounds and attitudes do have an impact, but the principal reality facing us is that there are over three times as many guys here as there are girls. That creates serious difficulties for a species that typically associates in a one-on-one, male-female relationship. The imbalance further acts to color the perceptions of the participants. often leading males to "giveup" trying to make friends with the opposite sex. The major consequences are dissatisfied students and packed bars. 
It need not be so. Enough women apply to this school to create a nearly equal ratio, if the same standards were applied to both sexes. 
According to the COUP report. under an "equal access" admissions policy the male-female ratio in last year's freshman class would have been 59-41 percent, instead of the actual 78.2-21.8 percent. I suggest the university move immediately to "equal access," not only to improve the social situation. but also to improve the caliber of the student body as well as to be more just in its admissions policies. 
Such a policy would no doubt crcat problems. Alumni may object. but they arc not attending this school nor living here. Well then. someone else might observe, NO does not have enough female dorms. That could be solved relatively easily by the institution of co-ed dorms. In that way. one does not have to take dorms away from oue sex to give to the other. The vehement protests from males in the past were over losing their dorms to women; they never were asked to share their dorms .. Furthermore. co-ed dorms would increase the informalitv and the "friendliness" of man-woman relationships -somethi~g very good for its owu sake. 
My next suggestion is to abolish forever the doctrine of "in loco parentis.'' Notre Dame has never been nor ever will be our parents. 
We arc not children of this university. neithei· are we "guests." We are full-tledged members of this community, pursuing our varied intellecutal. cultural, social. and recreational goals. However, one should not blame Hesburgh. Burtchaell, and Roemer for the doctrines they mouth. They speak from a long tradition-one 
of the Roman Catholic Church in general and of Father Edward Sorin in particular. Sorin. after all, started the NO Laundrv. that symbol of the destruction of all that fits, a sign of male inadequacy. It is also in Sorin's tradition that we have maids to keep our rooms clean. 
In the more general sense of "in loco parentis" one sees students denied effective participation in governing academic affairs, little participation in administrative affairs and. this year. denied participation in judicial affairs on the grounds that we are not able to exercise such duties responsibly. On the contrary. if we were given the chance. I am convinced students could administer such processes and decisions in a responsible. just. and fair manner. ND would witness the growing of the student body into mature. decision-making and decision-abiding adults. Like a newly elected political leader, they would grow up while growing into their oftice. 
Judicial and ethical responsibility cannot be dictated by parental or administrative fiat. It can only be learned through example and. much more importantly. by practice and application. At present. Notre Dame has neither example (witness the lack of justice or compassion with respect to the groundskeepers) nor student formulation, practice, or application of university rules. "Divine right of Kings" was abandoned in the 18th century as a justification for civil government. Somehow it survives as a justification for university dictates in the 20th. 
Consequently, I recommend the phasing out of both the laundry service and the maid service. Second, the university sexuality rule should be abolished, leaving to individuals the problems and responsibilities of decision•making in sexual matters -matters which strike deep to how w~define ourselves as individual persons. Third, university wide parietals should also be abolished, establishing the sovereignty of each section in determing when members of the opposite sex may visit. The justification of parietals would seem to lie in the effects entertaining guests might have on those living nearby. It would then seem logical that those who live near each other should decide whether they want parietals, what hours they desire and take the responsibility for enforcing their own rules. 
There is, however, one use of the "in loco parentis" doctrine l would like to see retained -the power to cancel classes. My proposal is to schedule each semester with one extra class day. Sometime during the semester, the powers-that-be would declare, without prior notice or warning, a day of no classes. The library and study lounges would be locked; students would be expected to relax, party, or otherwise enjoy themselves. Thus the "Snow days" of the last two winters would become institutionalized. I would recommend, though, that administrators not declare such a 
"university holiday"during the cold of winter, but wait until spring fever breaks loose on that first sunny day in April'.' 
So I end, laughing as I cry. l cry at leaving friends, acquaintances, professors and as I somehow grow out of college whole entering some "great beyond." I laugh at myself, my friends, our lives. I cry at the unused potential of this school _and laugh as its administrators continually striv~ to top th~ prevt~us year's biggest absurdity. Finally, while laughmg and crymg, I wtsh you all farewell. Or rather, to quote T .S. Eliot, my wish is "Not fare 
well, but fare forward, voyager,;." 
\ 
J 
Mr. Buckley speak without protest. 
The grounds keepers' affair signified the death of Chris­tian conscience at Notre Dame. The perfect eulogy to commerate that death will be William F. Buckley giving the commencement address. 
II. university has the obligation to pro\ ide for academic freedom with­in its walls. but the commencement ~pcaker is supposed to embody the lwpl'. spirit. and values of the university and its graduating class. BY JHl standard of measurement d;1cs Mr. Buckley represent those ilkals. 
Graduation day is supposed to be . a day of celebration for seniors. I wa~ looking fqrward to my parents cPming out here to share that joy '' ith me. The commencement Cl'mmittee's selection of William Buckley put a dark cloud over the day's activities. I wanted the day to symbolize everything Notre Dame has meant. to me over four years; now it will only. symbolize what is wrong here instead of the hope and faith for the future Notre Dame gives to its students and the world. · 
James L. GajewskJ 
Congrats, Mr. Price 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to congratulate Edmund Price on his recent appointmt>nt to the high office of Housing Director. He must be aware tht students have problems. but he assumes housing is not one of them. I'm sure he would like to spend more time with students talking to them about their prob­lems. but that's about all that's going to happen is talk. no action. Sound familiar? 
Dillon Hall has been over­crowded for years, yet he says it has just come to his attention. I come from a large family so I'm used to sharing my room (one room, just one, that's all we have) with twelve other people. It also doesn't bother me that I have to share my desk and my locker. But when it comes down to taking turns on who gets the bed for the night, then I get upset. Ifhe had to live in the room I had this year. he would 
Letter fro01 the Editor 
=-====:===:===:===:===:===:===:===:Rosemary Mills 
This is a letter from the editor. For the past six weeks have letters of complaint, not only about the Observer, but also about the Dome, An Tostal, Student Government, and various events put on by student groups. Now it's my.chance to complain. 
Being the editorial editor is my job. Yes, I do get paid--or underpaid to be more exact. My roommates will attest to the fact that I reside at the Observer office for anywhere from 20 to 30 hours per week. My professors, those who know me, would probably agree that it affects my gradepoint. But that isn't what I'm complaining about. Even without the money I would probably be crazy enough to attempt (and sometimes succeed) to get by with 12 hours sleep per week. And my gradepoint, as long as it's above probationary standards has never been the focal point of my life. 
What I'm asking for is recognition. I don't want personal recognition or mention because I know I'm not the only one who creeps home exhausted at 4 am. Many is the time I've left the third floor of La Fortune and seen the lights from second floor still burning. Oftentimes I've reached over to check the loudness of my alarm at 6 or so in the morning and heard the tired voice of the WSND dj. 
What I want to know is does anyone appreciate what we're doing? Does anyone realize how many meetings a hall president attends in one week, not to mention the SBP. SBVP, and the commissioners? Or doesn't anyone care? So often I think that the people in charge know all the other people in charge because they're the only ones doing anything! I keep running into the same faces on the stairs in La Fortune, and late nights at the Scholastic and Dome reveal the same faces. 
Notre Dame is reported to have the greatest student body in the world. I would like to commend those students who work on such things as An Tosta, Mardi Gras, hall commissions, publications, student government, interhall club. and varsity teams and all the "unimportant" organizations that don't get nearly enough credit. You have earned the rest summer vacation will bring (although some students will continue to work. right through those months, i.e. freshmen orientation committee) 
For the rest of the "tremendous" student body, perhaps the summer will be a good time for you to reflect on what you can do for your alma mater besides raise her acal\emic and alcoholic image. If not, you are certain1y entitled to ycur right to criticize, but don't 
tlwava ~t someone to take you seriously. 
probably be at Michigan State now. 
However, this has not bothered 
the housing office for they are 
letting in more freshman this year 
than the year before. The rooms 
are so small that once everything is 
in the room, there isn't room to 
even walk.Build lofts you say? Now 
that's funny, isn't it'? No lofts are 
allowed, yet the bed sheets we 
sleep on are more tlammablc than a jar of sterno. 
I fail to see the reasoning. Hopefully, since all of this is '·under investigation'·. he will take quick action. Off campus looks better and better every year. and I don't mean apartments in South 
Bend. Joe Thompson 
.. 
The Re_fs Speak 
Dear Editor: 
I feel compelled to respond to 
one of the charges that Myrtle 
Perkins made in her recent letter. 
As director of referees for the 
Bookstore tournament I cannot let 
charges of racial prejudice made 
against the officials who worked 
the tournament go unanswered. 
There are several points that I think 
need to be made. 
First, the students who worked the tournament were all Interhall officials with at least one year experience. While no one claims that they are professional officials, all of them have a good knowledge of the rules and in general are the best qualified refs on campus. 
Secondly, every single official who worked in the Bookstore tournament was interested in only one thing -to call the game as fairly as possible and to the best of his ability. It makes no difference to a referee what color the teams are, who is favored, or who the crowd is for. Surely he makes mistakes but who doesn't? 
Thirdly, I personally worked two of the TB Express I's games and I highly resent the claim that I am a bigot. I called those games as I saw them, just like I do every other game I ref. I made mistakes but they were honest ones and the color of the teams certainly did not influence me. 
I might mention that while part of the job of the ref is to take abuse from the crowd, I feel that the amount of obscenities and physical contact that I was subjected to by certain members of the crowd during the two TB Express I games, was uncalled for. 
I agree with Miss Perkins that there was a certain amount of racism shown during the ''black vs. white" games and I deplore that. But please don't include the referees among those who dis­played prejudice for they were just students trying to do a difficulty job the best that they knew how. 
TimCorrlgu 



-------------------~ 
' 

F..:_i~~,___Mav_i-_!9?_8_____________ the observer 19 
Campus Briefs 

Morrissey names Scholastic staff 
Jake Morrissey, editor of the 1978-79 Scholastic, announced appointments to next year's editor­ial board last week. Morrissey has selected eleven students to make up the board. 
Theresa Rebeck, a sophomore from Cincinati, OH, was appointed Managing Editor. Rebeck served as chairman of the Sophomore Literary Festival this year and has worked for the magazine for two years. Bernie Valenti, a junior from Cridersville, OH, was named Production Manager. Valenti served on the Scholastic's editorial board two years ago. 
Kimberlie Gumz, a sophomore Art History and English major from North Liberty, IND was chosen Business Manager. Lisa Harten­berget will be Layout Editor. Hartenberger is a sophomore En­glish major from Chicago, Ill. 
Tom Balcerek's job will be 
Fiction Editor. Balcerek's job will 
involve soliciting fiction for each 
issue and co-ordinating an all-fie-
SU, SG plan summer meetings 
by Mark Peterson 

Bill Roche. director of Student Union (SU), and Student · Body President Andy McKenna will both be working this summer to coordi­nate student activities for the 1978-79 school year. 
According to Roche, a meeting of SU commissioners is scheduled for late June to work out budget details and to finalize preparations for this fall's Welcome Week. 
Definite plans to contact speak­ers for next year will also be made at this time bv John Kuluz. SU Academic com~1is..,ioncr. and the chairman of the Sophomore Lite­rary Festival. Tom Heal~·-The ACC concerts for the coming year will be booked this ~umrncr bv Jim Speier. Concerts cornrni~sioncr. 
"Working really hard before school starts to get cver~·thing in order is very important so we can avoid a last-minute ru~h in Septem­ber." Roche said. "Our efforts this 
summer  will  be  essential  to  a  
smoothly-run  Student  Union  next  
year.  

Roche has cntruo,tcd the major porton of the coordinating effort to Rosanne Pozsgai. the new SU Calendar chairman. 
McKenna ha~ made plans to spend the summer at Notre Dame, and will use the time to lay the groundwork for next year's Student Government projects. 
Among these projects will be an examination of the overcrowded campus housing situation by McKenna and Edmund Price, with newly-appointed Director-of Hous­ing. Plans for the Third-World Conference, scheduled for next fall, will also be made. 
McKenna also stated a concern for the effectiveness of the Campus Life'Council (CLC) this year. "Too often," he said, "the CLC passed favorable proposals, such as the 
Scholastic named 
'best magazine' 
Scholastic magazine, Notre Dame's oldest campus publication, was named "Best Magazine of the Year" in this year's Indiana Colle­giate Press Association competi­tion. 
Finishing 20 points ahead of second place IUPUI, Scholastic won distinctions in such categories as over-all make-up, best use of non-photographic art, best news story, best review, best feature, and best column. 
This year's editor, Kathleen McElroy, thanked all of those whose individual efforts made the award possible. 
tion issue, scheduled to come out early in the second semester. 
Culture Editor will be a sopho­more Dave Satterfield. Satterfield is a General Program major from Oregon, Ill. 
Liz Donovau, a junior American Studies major from South Bend, will take over as News Editor, and Mike Kenehan, a junior from Providence, RI, will be Sports Editor. 
Bob Southard, a sophomore En­glish major from An Arbor,MI. was appointed copy editor. Phil John­son, a freshman from Belleplains, MN,will be-Photo Editor. Johnson worked as a Dome and Scholastic photographer this year. Mike Cantwell, a junior Art major, will serve as Art Director. Cantell is from Columbus, Ohio. 
Kelsey named outstanding prof 
Sydney Kelsey, professor of civil engineering at No:tre Dame, receiv­ed the College of Engineering's Outstanding Teacher Award on April 28. 

aEG~O!f JIOB ~aa&J~1'J'4~10RG GOV~ ~~ ~I'OBIJ ~iiiDl !r~!al 

SATURDAY, MAY 20 12:00-2:00 PM Faculty Dining Room-South Dining Hall snacks 01nd beverages will be served. 
********************************** 
t ATTENTION OHIO STUDENTS t 
! YOU H.AVETHEOPPORTUNITYTO HELP ! 
* ELECT * 
* * 
t RICHARD F. CELESTE t 
* *
* as your Democratic nominee for * * GOVERNOROFOHIO * * So, remember your state primary on June 6. * ! For further information call 233-8039. ! 
* * 
* proudly paid for by Lyn Leone * 
* Notre Dame Friends for Dick Celeste !! Democrat for Gover-nor * 
********************************~ .---_j/~ ~-·-----• --"' ~ \L 
/#r~N. D. 1s No. 1~ ~ 
I 
Jl _ij 
/ . . and your meetings should be 1oo! 
( 

The Uncoln Highway Inn can meet your requirements for a No. 1 oanquet or a No. 1 graduation party. 
~ ~ 

exquisite food private bar entertainment with dance floor sleeping rooms 
Contact the L. H. Inn -255-4786 or visit us 2754 Li nco! nway East MJ.s.hawaka 
~~add ent'!'_e:_~~rerto 1 FREE c-:r~~~f__w':'~ w~t~ me~~~-_ 
·-----·-----·--· ·-····------·----·------­
A specialist in structural mecha­nics who came to Notre Dame in 1967, Kelsey was honored at the College~s annual Honor Award Ceremony. 
Kelsey received. the B.S.C. degree in mechanical engineering from Leeds Univt:rsity, England and lectured for 16 years at Imperial College i:n London. He also spent five years with the British !Aircraft Corp. as a struc­tures engineer. 
Junior Advisory Council c:hosen 
The Jqnior Class Advisory Coun­cil has been chos•~n for the fall semester. The students were chosen o:n the ba~is of applications and interviews. In addition to the hall representatives, a community service 'commissioner was also appointed. 
Students appoint•~d were: 
Alumni, John Hoffman; Badin, Mary Margaret Bleyer; Breen-Phil­lips, Sue Young:; Cavanaugh, Chris Favo; Flanner, Jim McKee, Conrad Majeski; Grace, Ray Keough, Nick Schneeman, John Misch; Holy Cross, Steve Miller; Howard, Mark Wylan; Keenan, Paul Picble; Lewis, Mary Beth Leonat d, Barb Pokornowski; Lyons, Ann Griffin, Maritza Poza, Kerry Cavanaugh; Morrissey, Jim Devine, Doug Almeida; Pangborn, Kurt Sanford; Sorin, Pat McBride; Stanford, Jeff Hawk; St. Ed's, Paul Devereux, Rick Gregoire; Walsh, Julie Lennon; Zahm, Kevin Shaug­nessey; Off-Campus, Maura Zalud; Community Service, Chris Ken­nedy. 
George  Quill;  Dillon,  Joe  Kent:  
Farley,  Jane  Pascuzzo;  Fisher  
i  
I  


In addition to council members chosen, the dates for next year's Junior Parent's Weekend were finalized for February 23-25. The first JAC newsletter should be out by next week. 
Buckley to give address at commencement 
William F. Buckley, Jr. wil: deliver the address at the Univer­sity of Notre. Dame's 133rd Com­mencement Exercises May 21. 
Buckley, founder and editor-in­chief of "The National Review," will also receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. The University will confer 1,661 baccalaureate degress and 499 advanced degrees in ceremonies starting at 2 p.m. (EST) in the arena of the Athletic and Convocation Center on campus. 
Eight honorary degrees will be awarded, with four of the recipients from Indiana. The four Indiana 

The Splendor of Carved Wood 
Only 1000 ol these magn1f1cent dark walnut sat1n f1n1sh A g1ft to plaques Will be reproduced from be proud of for your parents or the original hand carvmg. Made yourself S35 00 plus S3 00 of l11gh-dens1ty arch1lectural ure-handling A small brass plate en­thane. these plaques are 21" w1de graved w1th your na•ne and class ;md 1 th1ck They have the heft can be mount~d at the bottom of oak. but w1ll never warp. dry out for 58 00 add1t1onal Please allow or split. Every t1ny wood gra1n 30 days for delivery Uncond1I10ndl deta1l IS r1chly accented by the 'noney back quarantee 
Oxford F'l ·Jaue Co. 
Deparffll.. ,n\ NOB 4944 Rabb1t Hollow Dr1ve. Boca f1aton Flomla 33~31 
recipients, all recetvmg honorary doctor of law degrees, are as follows: Governor Otis R. Bowen; Most Rev. William E. McManus, bishop of Fort-Wayne-South Bend; Ernestine M. Radin, chairman of the board of directors of FBT Bancorp, Inc. South Bend, and Dr. John W. Ry~n. president of Indiana 
University. 
Others being honored include Dr. W.O Baker, president of Bell Labs, Murray Hill, N.J.; W.Michael Blumenthal, Secretary of the Trea­sury; Federal Communications Commissioner Robert E. Lee, and Dr. Gradela Olivarez, a Notre Dame law alumna and director of 
the Community Services  1\dmini­ 
stration in  Washington.  All  will  
receive  doctor  of  laws  degree~  

except Baker, who will be given a doctor of science degree. 
Msgr. John Tracy Ellis, dean of historians of the Catholic Church in America, wi:J receive the 1978 Laetare Medal, given annually to an outstanding American Catholic, during the exercises. 
Women thinclads to meet Monday 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in joining the Notre Dame Women's Cross Coun­try Team on Monday, May 8. at 8 
p.m. in the Lewis Hall ba1>.·mc•H rec room. All new .111d old members are urged to :\ll~nd. The meeting will include refreshments. For information call Helen Weber. 7260. 
24-hour availability of LaFortune, but did not implement them pro­perly and efficiently. if at all. We are making plans to form a sub­committee to make the CLC more productive.·· 
Student Body Vice-President Mike Roohan added that tentative plans are being discussed for a workshop-retreat for cabinet mem­bers in mid-summer. Budget needs and an evaluation of a student survey on Student Government effectiveness will head the agenda. 


~ 
Irish 'anxious' for Blue-Gold clash 
Friday, May 5, 1978
20 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
The Fighting Irish football team will complete the spring season with the annual Blue-Gold game tomorrow afternoon. Dan Devine's crew will be somewhat depleted due to a rash of injuries. Hardest hit on the casualty list is the defense and the linebacker area in particular. 
Returning monogram winners that will not see action in the 1978 spring game include: Jeff Weston, Mark Czaja, Jay Case, Pete John­son, Howard Meyer, Dave Mitch­ell, John Hankerd, Mike Whitting­ton and Hardy Rayam. Pat Boggs and Scott Zettek joined the inactive list after knee injuries sustained in Monday's practice. Both players underwent surgery earlier this week. Split end Kris Haines is another doubtful starter due to muscle pulls. 
Despite the medical problems Coach Devine promises "a spirited work out." The first string team will don green jerseys while the second team will be wearing white uniforms. 
The offensive line will be intact with Rob Martinovich, Ted Horan­sky, Dave Huffman, Tim Foley, and Jim Hautman lining up left to right. Kevin Hart will start at tight end and share time with Dennis Grindinger. Dave Condeni will lineup at split end if Haines' leg is still ailing. 
The offensive backfield is primed for action with Joe Montana direct­ing the Green team. Jerome Heav­ens will man the fullback position with Vegas Ferguson and Tom Domin filling in at the halfback slots. 
On defense, Rob Bush and Tom Vandenburgh will handle the defensive end chores while Bob 
Gagnon and Mike Calhoun are 
starting at left and right tackle 
respectively. Bob Golic, Leroy 
Leopold and Steve Heimkreiter will 
nail down the linebacking posi­
tions. David Waymer and Tom 
Flynn will man the corners with Joe 
Restib and Jimmy Browner roam­
ing from their safety positions. Jim 
Morse and Randy Harrison will 
also see time in the defensive 
secondary. 
Rusty Lisch will be calling the signals for the White team and will be surrounded by Ron Merri­weather, Steve Dover and Ty Dickerson in the backfield. Speedy Hart and Marty Detmer will handle the receiving duties for the White team and will be joined by Tim Huffman, Jeff Crippin, John Leon, Keith McCormick and Mark Quinn on the offensive line. 
Mark Pula~aski, Dan Haggerty, 
Track members get honors 
Chuck Aragon was named the Most Valuable Player on the 1978 Notre Dame Track Team at thier annual banquet held last night in the Monogram Room at the ACC. The freshman speedster repre­sented Notre Dame at the NCAA Indoor Championship Meet in March and served as lead-off man for the Irish two-mile relay team, winners of the Kansas Relays and runners-up at the Drake Relays. 
Aragon, a native of Los Lunas, New Mexico, also ran the BOO­meter and the 400-meter relay for the Irish. He was clocked at l :49.8 in the 800 while achieving a 47.5 in the 400 relay. 
Senior weightman. Mike Meyer, a ~raduate of Clay High School in South Bend, was presented with the Outstanding Scholar Athlete Award by Mike Boehm of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. Meyer, a double major in English and Philosophy, carries a 3.75 grade point average at Notre Dame and was recently awarded a fellow­ship by Johns Hopkins University to pursue his doctorate in Philo­sophy. 
Head Track Coach Joe Piane named the co-captains for next year's track and cross-country teams. Dennis VanderKraats, a junior distance runner from To­ronto, Ontario, will serve as co­captain of both sports. He will be joined on the cross-country team by junior Steve Welch, a distance runner from Hannibal, Missouri. Serving with VanderKraats as track co-captain will be sophomore pole vaulter Perry Stow. Stow is a native of Elkhart, Indiana. 
Dahrling named 
Observer Sports Editor Ray 
O'Brien announced the appoint­ment of Debbie Dahrling to the position of Saint Mary's Sports Editor yesterday. O'Brien com­mented, "There is a communica­tion problem between the SMC athletic department and the Obser­ver Sports Department. Hopefully by adding this new position the problem will be rectified and Saint Mary's will get the coverage they deserve." O'Brien also felt that the coverage of women's sports on both campuses would improve by· next year. 

John Thomas and Tom Wroblewski green and see considerable action. will make up the defensive line for "I think the spectators will see the White squad. The defensive an enthusiastic group of players out backfield will consist of Dick there Saturday," commented Boushka, Phil Johnson, Rick Bueh­Devine. "We have been working ner and Angelo Fasano. Gary toward this final spring scrimmage Hankamer, Steve Hartwig, and and the players are anxious to play Brendan Moynihan will make up under gamelike condit!ons:" . the linebacking corp. The Blue-Gold classic will begm 
Tim Koegel and Greg Knafelc at 2 p.m. in th_e Notre ~a~e will see action at quarterback for Stadium. There IS no adm1ss1on the Green unit while Mike Courrey charge for students. Tickets will be and Lou Pagley will be directing sold before hand for the general the White offense. Pete Pallas and public. Adult price is $3 while those Jim Stone will l!!so be wearing under 17 will beadmitted for $1.50.
cont • ¢Wffd'l4 kk W/4WWuiQ2&/bWffl#ff4W///#4'fH'/..WhW/@/ffmw;;;& 
Parting Shots 

Never in the 22 years of my undergraduate and graduate life here in which I have earned a degree in every majorhave I heard such unsportsmanlike conduct on the part of the students as when the swimmers splashed their way into Rockne Memorial last Saturday afternoon. Between my father and I we have listened to every Notre Dame swimming broadcast either on ABC or Mutual. When I left the meet I looked at Knute in the front entranceway and he seemed to have a frown on his face. The students, acclaimed by all as the greatest student body in the world, had left early when their tankers were trailing. Maybe the tradition started to die when they admitted girls and Bookstore was moved behind the A.C.C. But we're Notre Dame, emblamatic of spirit in collegiate sports. Next weekend the Hoosiers invade the Rockne Memorial for the meet of the year. All the national media will be there to witness the action. The student body will have to regroup and show the true Notre Dame pride and tradition. Yes, you, the greatest student body in the world, can regain you number one ranking. You can make it happen... 
God bless Bone Bourret! This individual, a true Notre Dame man, the man without whom Bookstore Basketball would not be possible, is being canonized as a Bookstore Saint on Bookstore Court #2 this Saturday. You've seen this true Notre Dame man with his Bookstore Director shirt and his gold clipboard stalking the campus courts. He's the one who shovels the Bookstore Courts during the winter and sweeps them during the tournament. He's what Notre Dame is all about. This weekend when Bone becomes a Bookstore Saint, don't forget to change the last line of the school alma mater, Notre Dame our Mother, to an appropo form for the event. "And our hearts forever, praise thee Bone Bourret... 
It's always difficult to draw the fine line between joking and offense. The above was written in a humorous light and wasn't meant to affend anyone. The Notre Dame audience is one of the toughest to pease whether its 
writing, athletics or academics. Don't ever change. 

These prices will never be lower so c'mon down and SAVE!! 
A~P \lONT FfR61T 
Wt ALSO £Do1.•. 

~ 
~AA PHERNAllA 

~ 
CLD11l lr4" /'WlftJ A2.! N F S 
AIJC> o-rAER _r,~~X)~c:''t STurT !! 
91te M' KrNcE~ ~~~AWAK4 

Friday, May s, 197B______uth~e"-.JJIII.o_bsM.leloUrv__._e_rL__.21LL1 

Nowcomes Millertime. 

~ 1977 M•ller Bre~mg Co. Milwaukee W•s. 

r 22 the observer 
Friday, May 5, 1978 
I I NOTICES Dorothy -give Louisville my best • and
Capri-73-V-6 ·Deluxe, 4 speed, loaded 


Mo Mck -what a veep! -go get 'em
I 
yours.
offers-7232 
sweetie!

I 
Great Summer Jobs -·Arts & Letters, 

MJ · one of the best -have a greatI Business majors, call 3174, 8-11 p.m Erin-you're the pride of Pampas & and 
summer! Harmon Kardon 330 C receiver. Pract 
For Sale: 2 Yamaha NS-5 speakers an we love ya! 

Liz B -what a cutie-oui, oui mademoi­NEED QUALITY TYPING? Execut Sue-what can I say ·you're the best! 
selle. Inc. Professional Typing Service I~~ 
cally new. Bargain. call 3081 

Karen -viel Gluck auf lnnsbruck-we'll 
Mary M -you little Murphette -you're Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page miss you! 
I 

stuck In South Bend! minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you TB
1974 Pinto Squire Wagon -Must see t 
appreciate. Automatic, Air, excellent want the Best". Resumes: $3.00/page. 

3rd Floor Stanford Lounge, Anne C • give Cincinnati our best • with a 
condition. 277-3967 

Kathy S -eat lots of spaghetti for us! 
i We had some fun this year huh? 
Truck your goodies home to Rochester, You're abunch of wild? crazy guys. See

Great Furniture Buys! couch, desk smile! 
I
NY. Call Frank, 232-3455. 

I you next year. Anne H -If someone Is nicer, I don't 
chairs, tables call 288-5182 

Mary JO • EWF baby • all the way! 
I love, Diane, Dorothea, Lisa, Mary Rose Paint a house this summer and live for 73 Vega Chav. 2-door, Bids accepted I And Sharonknow who! 
I
free In that same furnished house a 
TB
n.d. Credit Union-283-6262 "Millicent'; 
couple blocks from campus. 277-3604 

Steph Hayes: 77 Firablrd Esplrit 3 speed-AM-FM 
It's been real & It's been fun & It's
Resid~nts of 127, 125, 123, 118, and
Work for me this summer a few hou rs a 
Strack staro $3,999.99 N.D. Credit Union 

eveR. been real fun! (sometimes)especially Room 220 Farley: I'm reallyweek and live for free. 277·3604 
-283-6262 "Millicent" 

love, 2South great one! 
going to miss you this summer! Have a 
HAVE YOU CONSIDERED a career In 75 Ford Elite 2-door, green, AM-Radio TerriCafaro, Kathy Riedle, Lisa Brink­Love,real estate? Company with a reputalion 

A/C. 12,273 Milas. $3,500.00 N.D. Credit 

man, Gerrl Jacobs & Cindy Jones:229 Fishertor commercial and investment sa les 
Union-283-6262 "Millicent" 

Wherever you may go -goodby and seeking potential sales associates. Call good luck!
Bob: Haggar was Great -Have you seenBerrien Real Estate Service. 616·983­75 Audi Foxy Type 2S, 2-door, 19,151 love, the GangGalvin? Take care and love1585 St. Joseph, Ml location. Ask for Milas Bids Accepted. N.D. Credit Union. 
KathyFlorian Bales. 

Wurf, AI, Chris, Boom, Zing, Kos, Observer Personnel: 
283-6262 "Millicent" 

Boobie, PepI, Claney and Skels­Dissertations, manuscripts, etc... typed. 
Congratulations on graduating. We'll1977 Mobile Home [Monarch] 70x14, 3 Being the type that gets pressed forIBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 
miss you! Good luck always,bedrooms, 2 baths, Village Green Park. 
words, I don't NEWA what to say except
287-4971. 
Skirted, $7,999.00 Call Millie, N.D. 

Gil and Mo Credit Union -283-6262 
hood luck and happy summer. 
Bob B.
Need ride to Albuquerque after gradua-Observer Staff [past and present],lion. Will share driving and expenses. 

Have agood, rasttul summer. I think ItFor Sale: One big 4ft. refrigerator. $100 Observer Typists:
Call Debbie at 4·$·4898. 

Is agreed we ail need a long vacation! your help this year. Good luck to the 
firm call K.B. 4-1-4677 

Thanks to all the "Flying fingers" for all 
Love ya!
Come one, come all to the great 

Momseniors -we'll miss you. Have a greatWANTEDAmusement Park field trip this Sunday, summer and see you in the fall.
May 7th, 1978. For the first time ever the 
Anonymous,MardiTwo St. Mary's students desparatelyNotre Dame/St. Mary's Council for the Thanks for the daisies. Who are you?

need housing close to campus forRetarded is sponsoring this extravaganza KKDear Italian Duck Mommy: My onlysummer. Willing to pay up to $50 perlor the Logan Center children and adul ts. 

regrets about our meeting is that it cameperson, per month. Call 284-4004For anyone that is interested in going Gentle Giant,so late. Bye and Love
284-5201.
(whether you are a Logan Volunteer or Happy 22nd birthday. Much love,Irish Dancernot doesn't matter), meet at Logan LibbyOVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year-round.

Center at 8 30 a.m. and we'll return at John Malcom: Pretty soon Seton Hall's

Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc.
6:00p.m. Take abreak from studying and Kath.

emblem will be the star of DavidAll fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenseshelp us out. Bring lots of friends alang Here it is. It's been fun with you. Takepaid, sightseeing. Free information·with you'' Any questions feel tree to ca II care. I love you. ·John Malcom: How's life in the Golan
Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14,
Art Koebel (287·7509) or Jeanne Conboy DannyHeights?

Berkeley, CA 94704.

(4·1-4391. Be therell Thanks to Sunny, Gene, Mo, Banach,
John Malcom: If nice guys finish last,Need ride to Albuquerque after gradua­Attention all Logan Volunteers and Tom H., Diane Enrique, Mlck C., Rick,how come you weren't first in the Uglytion. Will share driving and expenses.
interested students. The annual Awards Jim, Martin, Dana, Kathy [SU secretary]Man Contest

Call Debie 4-1-4898.
Banquet for the retarded children and and everybody else for making this year'sadults that participate in the ND·SM c Social Commission a successf

Jim (Jeff's look alike): Here's the answer
Male House mate wanted for the summer.
Council for the Retarded activities is th is 

Orestto the $64 question. It was I, I cannot lie.
Call 288-8417.
Saturday night, from 6:30-9:30 p.m. in 
the Logan Center cafeteria. We need lots A big thanks to ail of you In the Ores! for

JESSE: I hope you have an alarm clock toHelp wanted: We need people for work
of help cooking, serving, and decorating! 

UMOC movement for your hard workget tyou up in time. I'd hate to see somebehind the bar and in the kitchen.
Workers will be planning and making dedication [&] and for breaking theIrishman Wake (Knock) you up. LoveFurther information: Gail Lighthall Lee'sdecorations on Friday night from G:Q0­

record with $1,705. • I'II never forget it
Rich
Bar-b-que 289-0639.
10:00 p.m. at the Logan cafeteria. If you [although sometimes I'd like to I] can help out, even for an hour or s0, Yours in Ugly,ARCHWAY: You've thrown some excel-WANTED: Notre Dame student for

please call Mike at 1216 or Sue at Orest

lent parties. Keep up the good work nextpart-time Budget Director. Knowledge of4·1·4783. If you could help cook or serve year.
accounting important. Should be inte­at the banquet, please call Jean at Tennis Shoes,A Granulating Seniorrested in 0-Base budgeting. Prefer4-1·4391 or Art at 287·7509. Also, we Your court or mine?

someone who would like to develop an
need empty wine bottles for decorations, Mr. SnugglesMark, Jim Doc, Koz, Brian, Etc.: Oneexpertise on analysing real estate trans·so if you have any of those you can 

more day of classes and it's all over.
actions. Contact Florian Beles, Berrien
~ontribute, please call jean. The banquet 
Mark,Hope the real world is good to all of you IReal Estate Service 616·983-1585. St.

IS a dressy afla1r. so put on some nice 
Happy Birthday old man'
Sue
Joseph, MI.
threads and help us salute the Logan kids Cindylor their fine efforts this year! 

Ail those interested in typing for theNeed ride to Dallas after graduation. 
Banker.

Observer next year call Mardi at 4-1­Share driving and expenses 6883.
DON'T FORGET: The last NO-SMc 

It's been fun. tantalizing and provoca­
4677.Paid Position.
Council for the Retarded recreation tive. You sexy thing.
I need a ride to Wash. D.C. Can leaveperiod is this Saturday, May 6th, from 

AdmirerStudent checks cashed with SMC/NDafter last exam May 16. Call Jim 8906.
9:Q0-11:30 a.m. Come and join in on the 

P.S. To our readers-Happy Summer
I.D. at Georgetown Pharmacy, George-fun that makes the last rec one of the town Shopping Center or MarmainNeed ride to Texas: Dallas, Houston, etc.
most special of the year! Any questions Christie-Pharmacy, 426 N. Mich.

Share driving and exp. 2747.
please call Mike at 1216 or Sue at The edelweiss, the prettiest of flowers,4-1-4783. 

grows on the highest of mountain slopes.
Car Wash Only $1.00
FEMALE CAMP COUNSELORS Take time to notice the flowers as youSaturday and Sunday May 6 and 7 1·4

NEEDED. Eastern area T. T. T. Camp, 

climb. It was you who taught me that theBehind SMC Security House. SponsoredWolcottville, IN Contact: Ms. PatLOST &FOUND Iittle things are important too. Remem­by Augusta HallSuede, 130 Parker ST., Cincinatti, OH ber that. and everything wil be all right.
45219.
FOUND: One Plymouth car key on a You have my love and prayers.

Returning Observer Typists:black key chain with a Sagittarius MarkPlease indicate to me by the end of theNeed 1or 2rides to downstate N.Y. areamedallion. One lined blue denim jacket wek, the day(s) and time(s) you want to
:1·80, 1-81). Coleen 7815.
with no identification. One navy blue Haircuts, Trims, Styles, Cheap' Call·

type next year.
h9Dded sweatshirt. One navy blue 
Bestsy, SMC 4530Call me or leave a note in my box.

N.D. family wants to rent large
Windbreaker. One Timex watach on a Mardibedroom or 4 bedroom house. 1 yearblack leather watchband. All items occupancy. Close to N.D. Call 287-4191.
found at the An Tostal Volleyball Tour­
nament courts by the Towers last week. 
I need an apt for the summer. Please askTo claim, calf Ted (3209). 
for John Klein at 289-4871. FOUND: In student parking lot. Pair of 
Need 1 ride to AI bany, N.Y. Can leavecontact lenses, in lens case. Call 3564. 
May 12 or 13. Have little to take. Share gas and driving . STeve 8998.
LOST: A Kodak Tele-instamatic camera with the lnitials MRS on the back at the 
Need ride to Danbury, Con. area; shareCarnival Friday night. Call Mary at 2152. 
D&E Mark 3506 LOST: Keyson leather ring between 
Need-Bicycle· Cheap; will pay cash. call
rugby field and mud pits. Call 5729. 
7308. 
LOST: Takumar camera lens with case an 
Wanted: Need ride home to Fr. Ldle. call 
lens protector. Call 277-4585. (telephoto­
4·1-4381
143 mm) Wanted: Someone to drive my car to Ft. 
FOUND: 2 keys with 1118 in front of Lauderdale area after exams. call Jeff 
Lewis Hail. Call Obumr 
234-1263 
LOST: Two rings In Lafortune powder 
Wanted: male grad student to share 
room. SMC class ring (in. M.M.W. 
Corby Homes townhous. 2-bedrooms. 

., B.S.N., '78) and Initial ring. Call Mary furnished. $85 per month plus utilities. 
(4-1-4764) or Jim (8287). Reward $. 
Call Pat 287-7743 
LOST: A pair of blu8iJrey prescription 
Need an extra to fill your house or apt.
sunglasses. rre. 
next year? I need a place to live • preferably close to campus. Call Brian,
FOUND: One pair of contacs In Faculty 
287-2275 after 11 p.m.
Parking lot. Call 3564. 
PERSONALS
LOST: Small hammered gold ring. Of great personal value. If found please call 
TO ALL PAID PERSONEL FOR THE
Marltza 1915. 

OBSERVER:YOU CN PICK UP YOUR FINAL CHECKS ANYTIME AFTER TUESDAY• MAY 9th FROM MARY IN ROOM 333,LEWIS HALL PHONE 7248 
Blc-How did you break your bed? Beware of compromising photos, scheming roomies and fake diamonds. I'll try not to trip down the aisle. Love, 
the Backwards Mountie 



Friday, May 5, 1978 
the observer 2~ 

Happy Graduation to Stubs, Burrhead ~w~LWISHES, PARTjNdiHon Karen c. (541-B).
FfiOM KATIE &VICKI
and Walter of St. Al's. Best of luck and "Good morning yesterday. You wake 
all that rot. At>' N Wist ~g you cooler toes and many up and ~ir;ne has slipped away. and 
n.. ' e yea1·s .ld beers at Senior Bar (in a
The Six Pack suddenly 11 s hard to find the memories
black ~oat 1· :th a rose in your teeth of 
you left behind. Remember... Do you
COUrSSi.

Mo. remeber?" ... '78, ·n... Piease keep in 
This year was great; the next will be Fran-Yow :cAy bear is tired of sleeping touch.
alone! 

Tom Ro-Wi~ner.?f the "Too Many Men, Too Little T1me award. (Tuna fish and kinky 
better. (541-A) 
Bro. Larry Stewart: 
SWEENEY, elb~ws n,ust be appealing) Thanks for the abuse! The year wouldTen-Who DID put salt in your bed?

Crinkyl Queen: have been so boring without the obnox­
For your birthday-atrip to Uganda! Just (~eware the rope!) ious calls and "would-be" letters' 
think, sex with ldi, free record of Unda-Do you still part your hair with a love from the neerdlettes,
Ugandan National anthem and tribal knife? (We always knew you were a Mary, Julie and Madeline
Diane -he Dejous -I didn't forget ya -Dear Disco & Cheryl T. 
sharp kid!)
dancing lessons!
fellow Pennsylvanian! I'd like to thank these 2 great fans. 

Guess Who Mar!""Wishing you an ever-widening eire\ Linda Korczyk,Sandy-you mature Soph -mmwahh! Whose smiling faces filled the stands. 
of fn~nds and people to insult you. Good 
I plan on having a place to stay if 1
Tee-you're quiet but sweet! So thank you Disco for taking time 
luck m med school!

Donna-get the chains! And thank you Cheryl for being kind. Admirer: come back next year to visit. right? I wish
M~rla [in absentiaj-Uncle Hubie et al still
Ver-you're last 'cause you're the •most It was· great having you at the games I'm sure that the merger has made you you luck and happiness in everything you
m1ss you.
and experienced "graduate". Best of

bizarre-love ya! And I'm very happy you both came. do. 
luck in the future!! Rick-Not much time left for one more 
love, JJ.
and to the rest-I love you too!! TCFS love, Banker Show of Shows. TB 
Pepi-Beware of bampires! 
Tommy Powanda,Annie M, 

Cathy, Drew-Aren't you gonna try for Triple I never thanked you for my personal.
Detective Freddi L. and Disco King Thanks for being my paraclete this year Is Oak Park better that:~ Vetsville? I'll Domer? Any truth to the rumor you're Thanks. Hvw about next year at m·.' houseChuck (and the rest of 3rd floor) Here's -You· re really special. See you strum­

find out this summer! gomg pre-med? 
for dinner and ~~en onto Bourbo·n St.?

the last time to give you abuse. When min' a gitter in the fall! Chuckle The Monogram Kid Bob Bernoskie [Carousing Semlnarian]­
EnJOY next year and do write.

do you hold your classes (disco)? Good Don Watch those opportunity curves!
luck all of you next year. JJ
Peg, MB & Bets. Laue-We hear you've been offered a jobRich and Joe Tough neck, Thanks for putting up with a year of as a chauffeur. Want to take us to the Fred Kunzinger:I inspired your "redeeming mystery" insanity. I couldn't have gotten thru station once more for old times' sake? 
Did you get lost in the Earth Science
Gina, paper? Hmmm. 

Without you guys. I guess this whole year Mary Ann &Annette-What's in a name? building??? My very best to you. always.
If it takes an albatross 12 hours "Poet" I've been in a state of GRACE. Come • n get it! 
Karen(non-stor) to fly across the ocean -how love. Patti Bob:[friend of the duckies & jinxer of 

lon~ wil itr take to fly to Luxemburg? Con, eamngsj-We never said you weren't Rink-A-Dink,TH1s year has really been a trip. 1 can Beagles are super nifty things to have spacey. Say cheesecake!
hardly wait for this summer. around. Have agood summer and say Hi! D~r pseu~o-looney Irish girl, . If you ever 11eed a friend ... l'm sa1ling
Rose [A friend In the 'Clutch' and exoert
I m lookmg forward to Colorado it's nght behmd. Thanks for sharing all the
Your classmate, lunchmate, etc... to all the illegbal aliens for me. 

going to be great! ' coffee drinkerj-Graduation is atri10st iaughter, joy and tears. I may leave here
Rich Me u-pun us!

love ya, your pseudo-belligerent but the memories will live on in my heart
Leslie-Do they have bran & chocolate & 9r forever.
Kliglib, Well, the summer is almost here and it's 
m llrazil? We'll miss you & YeeYeP..
Heel, with love, TootsieWherever you are and whatever I'm time to say so long to all you wild and Happy Birthday to you too! Barbara-Is it true you're gonna T< .dn
doing, I'll send lots of love and tickle­crazy people for awhile. on this weekend? ·
Maggot KEN:
grams forever. -To Mary, Teri and Linda at Walsh ­Maribeth, Jean, Rosie & Mary B-lake 1 for "2"
Klig remember the mesquite in Dallas! 
Sween, Sween the dancin' machine our care of Prvex Chand.

·To Gre~, ~ean, Mary (again). PJ, and Relmer-We'll see again at
little bean _(spr~ut)_ hayed, drug related ~ary you
?TH Floor Regina North (Past and .· Don -It s fmally done! 
mcome tax time.

frand who IS cnnkl1e even during her 29 Jerry, Andy, George, Tom:
Present): ·To Ted -Thanks again for allyour help day witch. Happy birthday and may you Joanle-ls it true that alcohol runs in your 
Though I rarely see you, You are in my May the wind be always at your back. Christopher Ryan. ' grow 2 inches. Have a great day! vems: Scuz? When you gonna quit thoughts often. I'II miss you all.
May the road rise up to meet you. and best of luck to you Julie and smokmg?
Mo, Heel, Maggot • arenMay the sun shine warm upon your face. -JJP-I'm really gonna miss hearing you Kathy & Carl-Hope you get a hotel room.
May the rain fall soft upon your fields yelling FULLER at the top of your lungs The only future Frank Laurino has is to John & Tim [Blue Eyes & Creep-Jerk]­TO THE PLAGUE:
An until we meet again mthe m1ddle of the night! Good luck in 
sell maps to the stars' homes and hope to Work acting like jocks You're not only B-ball era··
May God hold you in the palm of his the White House. on more next . of SMC.
year-less study, more wine, women and
hand. -Ross -Have fun in the pros! trade places with Roy Wood. you're number 1in our hearlo. Congratu­
song.
signed, Ognir Rrats

Our best to you in all you future -Pistol-Hope you find some "little girl" lations.
Cary-Is it true you have to run around in
endeavors. that sees things your way. Moms 
Tipsy, the shower to get wet?
Julie and Karen -Ceil-Only thebestto you! 

No abuse here. It's past the hour. Steve Odland-What happens when your .Mardi Nevin:
Keep in touch! -CARY! 
What's there to say here? Too much! room number changes next year? Good Luck! Have a great 78-79 and
And then it's also goodbye to all you 

CG's won't do. I'll miss you. The Girls Across the Hall [204 Farley]­keep smiling.
Anne, lzzy, Jill, suckers I'll see again next year, unless 1 
love, the one who can 'I sleep because of Thanks for putting up with the Bears and Karen C.
Carnations are fine, but roses are best. flunk out this semester. 
our obnoxious friends.
wastesI'll miss you immensely when you move AI, Joe, Mark, Sandy, Val. Anne Flo 

Kathy Mills-Only 10 more drinking nights
out west. Ann, Diana, JT, Jim Tim, Pat, Terry, Julie Judd:
at Senior Bar (and 43 more days to
Maria Isabel: 'It was avery good year... " Good lucklove "a hundred times" C_uz, Brother Gorch, OJ, Joyce, Karen, Li change your mind) It's your turn to dump
It is better late than never. You got Miss I.B.M. My best. ' 
Rich Lmda, Bll, Jana, Ed, Phil, Pete, Meg, beer on J. R.!

your personal. See you in Mexico this KarenTheresa, Mare, S.O. and whoever else 
summer. Marti [Soon to be Single Woman Emeri­
Question: What has 16 legs, 4 tennis REMEMBER -Life is like a window: if tus]-How long will it take you to have
rackets. one table, paint cans, blankets. you don't put up the curtains, the sun will P.L. Senior Math Majors: Mary, Leigh. Pam,
2D-25 kids?

trash cans, a broken microphone a fade the rug. Claudia, Usa, Paula, Mary Kay-
Attention former Innsbruckers. students ~ar:tha-Are you getting a second degree It was an experience. Would you do it
fishing reel .. and a lamp shade. ' Have agood summer. 
~f German and all fun-loving, beer-drink­'"· dmner and shower organizing? again? Our best...
answer: Hnd out Friday night in B.F. 
mg persons! Register now for member­Diane and Kathleen-Remember Feb. 13 Cauchy & NAOSTDEMornssey as we count down! he Top 119 P.S. Thanks Observer! 
"Barcelona Day." Meet you there in 10
ship in next year's N.D. German Club.

hits of the year. 
vears? (Train station at 3,5, or 9).
Call Jean at 629-4496 IJr Ken at 8816.

Gumby, Donavan. Howe, Duff Russ. Mo and Maria,
The AO's-We all know where it rains
Mo. Schnidle. Shep, Brownie. etc. ' We're gonna miss you. See you at the
SMC Students-We want you-to work on more than in South Bend! See you at the
I'll miss you this summer, but we'll Thanks for al the great times at those Michigan game. Be there. Aloha.
Beach Boum!
Freshmen Orientation -for aprlications

meet agam on the racquetball courts! Be wild Pangborn parti13s-how dare anyone The Juniors
Cell-Thanks for the jelly beans and the
and Information stop in or cal Student

good (ha-ha) and take care of your feet. call you stillborn You sure make it hard 
Activities office (166 LeMans-4319) encouraging words.

Your Vice Chairman to~ us to leave the States. We're gonna Fellow Corby Gangers, By this time next
Louanne-ls it true that you have a Hotline
m1ss you. but never forget you. week we' II know how many of us are
NOTRE DAME MEN-We want you-to to h~aven? Keep those prayers and letter
Dear Bob, Charlie, Dan, Ken, Kevin, and Love always, graduating (its been a long five years)
commg next year.
help SMC freshmen move into their

Mark, Irish Lassie & French Fille Let's keep in touch boys.
Drew-Aren't you gonna try for TripleYou guys are really super! Have a -Sign up Dor_ner? Any truth to the rumor you· re 
dorms on Saturday. Aug. 26th 
and information in Student Activities

great summer. See you in September. J• J & J 'Nterprlses wants to thank all its Mary, Roberto, Chuck. Jeff, Peter.
go1ng pre-med?
Office (166 LeMans; 4+4318.

We'll miss ya' clientele for the past four years. It's Renee, Bill. Johnnie, Chupe, Matt. Beth
John R.-pie in your eye and mud in your
love, been great! Best of Luck! and Bob: You guys done a real good job.
face!
Artist to help illustrato book of poems to

Mary Pat and Terri Jodie, Jill, Julie, Nanclll Thanks for making me look so good
Matthieu [Renaissance Man]-What don't Monday or Wednesday 6-10 p.m. you do well? 
be published this year. Call John 

To Sprout Human Beanhayed: Joanbone-Ceil: Thanks for agood year and all those
Orest-Many more ugly years!
234-8364.

Happy 19th B-day! StiII Iove ya evtm though you're a Bo and Louie-Keep up this rate of rides home when the van was snowed in. love, your fan club hyper. 
degeneracy and you 'II make great
ND-SMC JUNIORS: This is the final·

Colt alumni. My newlywed new neighbors: The first
week for $50 deposits to ensure yourself a

Joe D, lunch is on me!
The New Staff-Good Luck!
spat on the SENIOR CLASS TRIP TO

Farewell to the best 4 months. Ruby, (Newly Employed)
Southern Cal. ND: LaFortune 1-4 p.m.

Remember you can never see enough of It's gonna be a long summer! Hope it 
Hutch,
SMC: LeMans lobby 7-9 p.m.

M.U. brmgs you back to the Dome refreshed & Folks back home:
When I think back 4 years to Sept. '74,
XO-Kath rallying. Hope it just brings me back. I kn~w its along drive from Poughkeepsie
I remember being introduced to you by
Kathy, John, Ores!, Kate, Katie Marti

P.S. You think I'm dum or sumthin? love. Woodstoc, but 1f you keep the tires on the rims and
Marsha. I won't forgetit. Good luck next
Space Brink, Martha, .Joe B.• Vicki, Nog: 
some gas in the tank it'II go a lot fasteryear and do send a postcard sometime.

Cherene, Hutch, Leo H., Barb Boylan,

To all the special people that have come Monica, Your Chicago Boy ·
An Ex-California Girl
M. Lou, Fran, Beulah. Martha, Nancy,

into my life, I find myself more madly and passion­
Paul Stevenson. Karl, Bo, Bill, Dave.

It is always hard to say farewill to those ately in love with you every day. John Rooney-
There once was a Brother named Lar
Byrne and everyone I can't think of at

who mean so much to a person. Thanks P.S. I can't wait for tomorrow! ' 1'm
Who was covered all over with hair. \ might be a poet but right now
1:30 a.m. Congratulations, keep in touch,

for being my friends and making my 3 G Thanks.
BUT MOST OF ALL, HAVE FUN! And when the girls passed, wordless. 
short years at SMC so wonderful. I wish He worked really fast,
Rosemary

you the best, always. Monk, Karen Chlames:
And stripped off his clothes to get bare!
I' II miss you all very much. You've been much more than a How could I ever thank you enough for all
M. Lou-MJM
LOVE• Steph neighbor. Thanks for making my senior your help? Good luck next year and Keep
lt,'s been a strange year, and I'm glad

year! mtouch. 
you ve been around. Keep in touch Don.na, Sue, Tina. Kathy, Kathy, Anne.
Rosemary Hammer: love, Flipee Mardi
kiddol Chns, Mary Tex. Nancy, Susan. MaryHappy 21st! Cake has no calories on Beth, Kim.
AM

Friday either. Marky two beers, Hey Sunshine:
I expect at least one letter once aweek.
love, Bill Knapp You are one wilol and CRAAAAAAZY To say Thank you wouldn't really be fair!
Tony, Good luck next year and do everything
GUY!!! Straighten up or I'll tell Phyllis Hope I can give of myself to someone the
you can. The years here pass so quickly!
H~ve agreat summllr and be good (?)!

Denise P. Hogan: everything I know. way you have given yourself to me.
I'll miss you all.
Lookm~ forward to next year. Sorry 1

Good luck at Northwestern, but re­love, Mom Though I only call in times of trouble, you
couldn t write this in French.

member that lawyers don't work -they SIX PACK: Belated. well stated mean more than ajust arainy day RA. Be play racquetball. anticip~ted, bear related, gold plated: AM Good and Be Happy
Lory Kerger,
love, Frack synthetic eyeballated, intoxicated, cine­

Dear Deal and Jammtlr. Thanks for the I hope that we write more often than me mated, vegetated, amputated and you 
memones... the number of times you made it to 541.
Klbl: waited? Merry Halloween and a Happy Kev,
Always VG Go~ luck next year and please come
Good luck next semester on the St. Als Independence Day. Decent! From Thanks for the best nine months of my
v1s1t me. We can discuss your "plans."
campaign, but don't get so absorbed that who else but Stubs, Burr, Hump, Dr. silly life. Was it worth the wait?
Kathy, Take care. love. Julie 
you forget about us!! Magoo, the OFCC, I Hog, James at 12. XO. Shar
Well, big sis, it's about that time.

love, Mardi . Crazy Mary, Hooterville. Boomer and P.S. Do you know the way to San Jose?
Pam and Leigh,
What can I say? Congratulations on your
Abner and the Mounted Moose Patrol Why do we want to spend the rest of

achievements (including Bob) and thanks

Denise Hogan and Cheryl Baxa. Superior. l?r fir ETC. Sarin,
our lives working with computers?
for everything!!!

We never knew antisocial people could Now it's your turn. Rooms 301 & 333
Proof? Thanks for all the "rich" and
be so much fun! Glad we found out Who else has to put in their own love, Rosemary McCandless will be waiting next fall.
memorable times. Let's all end up in SF.
through knowing you! Congratulations!! personal? It's the thought that counts but Have a great summer.
love, ErruptTo all Farley sophs,
Take care. we're not sure we like the thoughts. love, Diane. Dorothea. Lisa & Mary Rose
2 down and 2 to go. Let's make the
Mo and Jeanne Thanks. See ya Bye. 

second half even bett13r than the first! Mary and Madeline Carla (alias Allee):
The Six Pack 

How can I thank you both for the past 3 Happy Birtnday on the 8th' Stop by for
P.S. What is the OFCC and who is Abner many

Tom, Lucy, Chris, John ancl whoever else was years. There are so memorable your present.
Shula's, jury, Dr. Pitts, Mrs. Vacca, and the Mounted Moose Patrol? 

there Wed. night. This is your personal. days, that I can always look back on. Love,typed papers. Glee Club, Bruce, orchids, 
AM Please keep in touch. Mark.
Moonraker, champagne, Chicago, golf­Happy Birthday to Henri Purcell. May all love, Julie P.S. 20 ain't so bad.
talk, etc. ,your sea shells be happy. . Merci beaucoup love, the Six Pack 
I' ';To.. 
24 the ObS&rver Friday, MayS, 1978 
Aeros1 Bruins bid 
Nugent eyes pro hockey 
by Gregory Solman Associate Sports Editor 
The 7,775 fans that usually pack the Williams Arena in the "Land of a Thousand Lakes" are known to be as cold as Minnesota weather toward opposing teams that dare to attempt a win there. They are more so when the team if like Notre Dame's: composed mostly of "traitors," or "defectors" or any­thing else they can think to call born and bred Minnesotans who take their eminent hockey talent and choose to play farther South than Rochester. Tonight was no exception. and the boos cascaded down with the energy of a thousand brisk winds ... 
Only a few shifts of hockey had elap~ed. and already Bruce Lynd and Notre Dame's Kevin Nugent were heating up this frigid night in Minnesota with "extra-curricular activitic~.'' Lynd had been hacking at the Irish superstar the entire tir~t ... hift, with Nugent unbegrud­gingly returning his fair share. Nugent had gotten the best of the carlv going, though, by assisting Don Fairholm on a give-and-go goal to put the Irish out in front with the first mark of the game. The ...ccond time on the ice, Nugent got pushed too far and shoved Lynd into the corner. Lynd retaliated, as hockey players are known to do within the confines of a friendly arena. by swinging his stick over his head and dangerously cracking Nu~nt on top of the helmet. "The Stork" dropped his gloves. A few hard rights to the jaw later, Lynd probably regretted that retaliation, but, nevertheless, Nugent was out of the game. 
High up in the press box where cigar smoke looms like low flying clouds, Harry Sinden, Don Cherry and 'tom Johnson released collec­tive sighs. Sinden, the General Manager of the Boston Bruins, Cherry, the Head Coach, and 
Johnson, the Head Scout were 
there specifically to scout the 
player now skating off to a rousing 
chorus of razz. Nugent is one ofthe 
Bruins top draft choices. The 
Houston Aeros of the WHA also 
claim similar negotiating rights 
with the Irish right winger. 
"We didn'td get a chance to see much of you this game, Kevin," joked Sinden after the game in the press box. 
Somewhat abashed, Nugent could do nothing but apologize, and though he knew they weren't seriously upset, he stumbled out an explanation. 
"Don't worry, Kevin," piped Cherry, clearing a puff of cigar smoke with a wave of his palm, "if you hadn't reacted just the way you did, we wouldn't even be looking at you." 
That in itself, might express the ethos of the Bruins hockey system. The Big, Bad Bruins. They want players that not only can score, but refuse to be intimidated as well. 
Later on, Sinden continued, "We're looking forward to seeing you play for the Bruins." 
"Too bad he's not good enough to play for us," kidded John Mari­ucci, Coach of the U.S. National Team, though he had sent both Nugent and Don Jackson an invita­tion to play. 
"Maybe so," retaliated Sinden, smugly, "but he's good enough to play for a Stanley Cup Contender." 
The contender to which he was referring was the Bruins. 
Kevin Nugent was, understand­ably, dumbfounded. For even the top draftees, it's a stunning realiza­tion when he finds that he's a puck's throw away from being either a Bruin or an Aero. 
Speaking of the Big, Bad Bruins, there are those who followed Nugent's career here and would say that due to his evident "big­ness" and "badness" there is no more appropriate place in the world 
Chip Scanlon ; Parting Shots 
Cheap Shots 
As I get a little reminiscent over my last year at Notre Dame there will always be highlights that will stand out. The USC game when the Irish came out clad in green, having those wonderful Texans eat their words after the Cotton Bowl, seeing Jeff Carpenter finally get his chance, at least for a stretch; and of course-being with the hockey team as they knocked off number one ranked Denver and then came with one period of doing it again in the WCHA playoffs. Throughout the year some of the Observer columnists stood out, too. their styles became a trademark on the best read page of the daily tabloid, and I'd like to relive a few of those memorable jottings in styles that you may recognize. 
New York, there's no place like it. Year round sports fans from all over the world make their pilgrimages to what few will deny is the sports mecca of the United States. The town that has brought you such powerhouses as the Knicks, Rangers, Jets and those Prodigal Sons, the Giants and Nets, who have fled to the forbidden land of New Jersey in search of what few New York teams ~chieve. It is even rumored around the sacred path to the altar of MadisJn Square Garden that Yankee President George Steinbrenner and Hearne will exchange roles in the near future. Insiders all know that Steinbrenner has exhibited traits in the past that would make him a good politician. If you're a sports fan, whether it's baseball, football, hockey, stickball or hubcap stealing; then where else can you head for but New York. Then you too can be a native New Yorker ... 
Far away from the maddening crowd, nestled among the Green Mountains in a state where trees outnumber people, there is a sports season taking place that doesn't need a World Series, Super Bowl or playoff to determine the winner. It's tempo may not be as quick as hockey or as publicized as other professional sports, but it epitomizes the pace of the natives. Yes, it's Maple Syrup season in Vermont and quite a race is starting to flow in the Aunt Jemima Devision. It will all come down to the last week of the season to see whether the Stowe Firs can stick to their ten bucket lead and clinch the Nathan Allen Cup, the symbol of supremacy in the backwoods. As the season slowly drips away few will forget when half of Vermont turned out in Brattleboro Woods Memorial to sleep out for the 100 tickets available for the game of the year between Stowe and Brattleboro. Fortunately the extragreen mountain re<>idents were able to see the match from a nearby ski lift terminal and a near riot was avoided. More updates on the Maple Syrup race next week ... 
One of the greatest games in the history of intercollegiate sports will be taking place this weekend and no Notre Domer will want to be without the inside strategy that will be dripping from these next few paragraphs of cliches, innuendo and trivia. Volleyball will be the game and the object will be fame. Some of the greatest money players since the michigan State football team of a few years back will be gracing the hardcourts of the house that Austin Carr built. The two team:;. of course, are the howard Flames and the San Francisco Spikes. It is said that Howard has speed to bum whilaSorinwill be out to nail their opponent. When Howard has the serve look for them to utilize their smoke screen offense which they have developed in their home stadium by standing around their elevator shaft at rught. But this reporter's instinct tells him that when the money is on the table it will be San Francisco whose court savy and playoff experience will carry them to the champior-:hip. Look..for the San Francisco Spikes to win it suddenly on a spib. . . (CoatJnued on paae 16] 
,·, 

for him to play. Well; Nugent may argue with the aver~ge fans rea­soning for that correlation, but, to be honest, he isn't kicking at the chance to play at "the Hub." 
"I'm just ecstatic about the way things are going right now," laughed Nugent, "Who'll I'll play for will probably be decided upon this summer. I'll probably go with the team that will afford me the best opportunity to advance and play. At this point, (:can only say that I am very impressed with the way both the Aeros and the Bruins have treated me." 
For Nugent, out of Edina, Minne­sota, he's always been treated well, and things have simply gotten better and better. Highly tauted out of high school, and sought by every team in the WCHA and some Eastern schools, Nugent decided on Notre Dame, planning on a combination of successful academic and athletic life that, in retrospect, he appears to have achieved. 
Statistics alone cannot tell you how successful Nugent was at these ventures, but they help. Academically, Nugent stepped off the ice to achieve a 3.0 average from the College of Business--not bad for a guy who all winter spends four hours a day on skates. 
On the ice, Nugent developed a reputation as a ''policeman," which, admittedly, is not unjusti­fied. But there is more to "the Stork" than meets the ice. 
Yes, he owns the Irish record for most career penalities (110 for 282 minutes) and for penalties accumu­lated in one season (34 for 95 minutes, this year.) And Nugent is the first to admit he's roughed it up a bit during his years here. 
"Physical respect is almost re­quired when a player is of good size and weight," says the 6'4", 230 pounder, "Besides I was paired off with a small center in Don Fair­holm, and if oposing teams ever took advantage of Don, I took real pleasure in backing him up." 
Wayne Cashman, . a noteable Big, Bad, Bruin, was Nugent's hero through adolescence, and he wore Cashman's number "12" throughout his college career. 
"Every team needs an agressive player or players,'' related Nugent, 
On the other side of the ledger, however, one can clearly see that Nugent didn't confine his activities to "close encounters of the two­minute minor'' kind. 
In 130 games, Nugent scored 54 goals, had 75 assists for a total of 129 points... one point shy of exactly one per game. That puts him in the top ten in Notre Dame history in goals, asssists, and total points, eclipsing such scoring no­tables as Alex Pirus and Jack Brownschidle in some categories. In this respect, then, one can say that he handled both aspects of the game with fervor, while still re­maining a crowd favorite, inciting cries of "Nugl Nug!" whenever he scared or fought. 
"What initially attracted us to Nugent," recounts Bruins General Manager Harry Sinden, "~s that he was so big. Admittedly, he was an awkward individual when we first scouted him, as skaters 6'4" and 
Keenan victorious 
In interhaJI sports competition, Keenan Hall captured the campus single elimination tennis tourna­ment. Points were awarded in singles and doubles as Keenan safely outpointed all opposition by 40 points. Grace Hall captured second place edging out third place finishers, Cavanaugh. 
Dave Cantu led the way for the Keenanites capturing the singles competition downing Walt Griffith 8-3 in the finals. In doubles competition Bill Hickey and Ray O'Brien scored for Keenan via their trip to the finals. There they met a tough Grace duo and dropped an 8-6 decision. Other point scorers for the Keenan netters were Jim Lloyd, Mike Vanic and Joe Kirch­ner. 


Kevin Nugent will continue his rugged play with the Aeros or Bruins next year. 
6'5" usually are. However, we felt that after four years of college hockey, he would smooth out. And he has." 
Sinden also said that Nugent possessed great hockey intelli­gence and sense, but admitted he would have adjusting to make in the pros. 
"One rarely knows of a players agressiveness until he's actually skating in the pros. I'm not saying that Kevin won't show this natural­ly when he steps out on the ice, but we feel he is going to have to be very agressive.'' Nugent's chances? 
"Nugent has an excellent chance of making the Bruins, and I believe that if he doesn't make it right off, that he will in a very short time." 
Nugent listed his favorite, jous­ting opponent over the years as being Dean McGee of Colorado College. "In our freshman year," Nugent recalls, "we used to really go at it. But after awhile, we began to develop a mutual understanding. We realized that each of us were able to take care of our own linemates, and soon we stopped retaliating every time either of us were hit." 
The one thing that Nugent would not tolerate was disrespect of his favorite linemate, on-the-road­roommate and near-brother, Don Fairholm. Indeed, he and Nugent combined to be one of the most effective pairings in Irish . hockey history. 
"We're as close as two people can be without being brothers," insists Nugent, "Both on and off 
r~~-~---~~~='" ~.~-··--" 
1 Future Irish Players 
~ 
f 

Player Pos. 
Bernie Adell RB Matt Ammon TE/LB Tyrone Barber RB Tony Belden FB/LB Dave Berry RBIS Tom Bock OTIDT Mike Boushka WR/DB Todd Bruni GIT Pete Buchanan FB Steve Cichy FBISS Bob Crable LB Joe Gramke DL Kevin Griffith LB Pete Grogan c Rex Hudler WR Pat Kramer G/T Larry Kissner OT/DT John Krimm WR/DB Jeff Lueken G/LB Dean Masztak TE Ron Mishler TE/LB Ken Muncy DL Harry Oliver K Tim Ponsler LB Phil Pozderac OT/DT John Rice FB/LB Tim Tripp WR Bob Weigle RB 
'·· 
the ice. He's the best centerman I've ever played with if fifteen years of organized hockey. Right from the beginning, there was something instinctual about our play ... knowing where each other· would be on the ice became second nature." 
In many ways, Nugent epi­tomizes the highly-publicized Notre Dame athlete. In fact, he could be a poster-boy for that image. He enjoyed his education here, and made many friends, both athlete and non-athlete. He got involved in community service, and helped Coach Lefty Smith in the Indiana Youth Hockey League, and ap­preciated his fans from South Bend as much as they appreciated him. He became extremely close with his fellow hockey players, in parti­cular, his fellow seniors, with whom he enjoyed much comrad­erie. As he himself put it, "We came here as boys with much to learn, and we're leaving here as men." 
"This university really does com­bine the best aspects of every­thing," remarked Nugent, "I found that there was a tremendous awareness of athletes and concern­from Professor DiCiccio who kept me in line academically, to Dean Raymond of the Business School. It was a tremendous experience that I've never regretted." 
Whatever kind of man Kevin Nugent has graduated into being, the Houston Aeros and Big, Bad Bruins evidently like what they see. And Kevin Nugent couldn't be happier. 
Wt. Ht. Hometown 

188 5-10 Ipswich, MA. 225 6-4 Dallas, TX. 188 6-0 Washington, D.C. 205 6-3 Crystal, MN. 195 6-1 Waterloo, lA. 245 6-4 Hickory Hills, IL. 185 6-J Wichita, KS. 240 6-3 Chicago Hgts., IL. 220 6-3 Plymouth, IN. 220 6-3 Fargo, NO. 220 6-3 Cincinnati, OH. 225 6-4 Cincinnati, OH. 220 6-3 Kettering, OH. 235 6-5 Oak Lawn, {L. 175 6-1 Fresno, CA. 235 6-4 Colton, WA. 240 6-4 Delray Beach, FL. 180 6-1 Columbus, OH. 225 6-4 Racine, WI. 215 6-4 Toledo, OH. 240 6-4 Metamora, IL. 235' 6-5 Shawnee, OK. 165 5-11 Cincinnati, OH. 220 6-2 Belleville, IL. 230 6-8 Garfield Hgts., OH. 205 6-3 Cuyahoga Falls, OH. 186 6-4 Dayton, OH. 198 6-1 Sacramento, CA. 








