
............------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 107 Friday, March 31, 1978 
Third World tour continues 
...............,...~ ........................................,..._,....... _ •..,.......,..~ ........--._.................................................................._~.......~·...............~.-................... The quest. ions in Brasilia alter-
up on eth ar wd rtsb s r~ axled: Ths [ The Notre Dame Band celebrated the immenence of warmer weather with their annual spring i

o e s u en ars. me u mg e l . . . possibility of a negotiated settle­
Lf1.brary. 1 N'tckl.es. Corby,s and L concert last mght m the ACC. [Photo by Sue Cohton] J ment in the Middle East" despite Louie's are in the Northeast Neigh-·. ,_,_,._...__.._.,._..,_..__.._. • ._.._.•..-.._..-•..__.._._,._.._..._.,._..._.._.._,._..._..._.•._._._.•._..,_,_._._.. meetings with Israeli Prime Mini­
borhood area. ~~~n~er::~~~m i!~~~n !:~or~~~~
Short Cl·rcul•t results ,·n blackout 
The Library under its old refused to make concesseions de-
The reappearance of the cherished frisbee on the quads signifies that things are getting back to the way they should be. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 
-----· -----·--­
Citizens' group complains about student bars' noise 
by Clare Zimmerman and sponsoring creative social 
events. such as the Senior Class Members of the Northeast Neigh-Indoor Picnic or the Bull Moose borhood Association. a local citi-Party. which are not centered zens group. are complaining about around the neighborhood bars. the noise and litter around the ''These activities provide the stu­student frequented bars. dent body with an alternative way 
John Roos. a professor at Notre to socialize." Roos noted. 
Dame and a member of the )
A · t" d r b t 't r
ssocla lon an lason e ween I • l
the bar owners and the university. r summarized the group's complaint. l noting. "This problem seems rela-~ tively small from the student's [ · 
· h f h l

perspective. owever not rom t e \ viewpoint of the neighborhood • residents. Trash. noise and broken~ 
glass add grt'a: cost to the neigh-~ 
borhood." i "There arc a large percentage of ~ elderly people and poorer families ) with children who cannot move out \ of the neighborhood. as well as • middle income families in the ~ area... Roos added. "~hey are all \ trying to hold the neighborhood : 
together." ~ 
Although the problem of trash ) and noise around the bars has been ~ continuous over the last three or ~ four years. Roos stated that prog-\ grcss had been made last spring • and fall. The bar owners agreed to ~ clean up their premises and the \ t:ash in the area which came from ~ the bars and their clientele. he • said. Police also patrolled the area ~ more frequently. ~ 
The Northeast Neighborhood \ Association believes that since ( winter has set in the diligence of : th b 0 ne 
ha 1 d Mo t \ 
management was cited as a parti-by Kathleen Connelly cularly bad offender according to Senior Staff Reporter the present owner, Dave Tatum. Tatum feels he has been very Due to a short circuit in a buried
responsive to requests lo clean up 
cable, a number of halls were his property. without power for an hour and a 
"I went to a neighborhood half last night. Stanford, Keenan, meeting and heard their com-Lewis, St. Joseph, Columba, Holy plaints." Tatum commented. Cross Halls and the laundry were ''Then I got the kids to clean Up the blacked out from approximately litter. Now the residents are 8:45 to 10 p.m. A second power happy." The owner of Bridget failure a short time later left the McQuire's Filling Station, Theresa halls without electricity for twenty-Bauer, has agreed to try to form a five minutes. new coalition of bar owners to see Kenneth Kempf, Assistant Di-that their property stays clean. rector of Utilities, said he antic-
Roos commented that students ipated no further problems during can aid the problem by not tossing the night, but as of 2:15 Friday beer cans and cups on lawns and morning, St. Joseph Hall was still streets and keeping the noise level without power. "We hope to have down. "They should realize that the problem corrected by daylight they are not on campus, but in an Friday," Kempf said. "We're area of people's homes," he said. trying to hook up a temporary 
Also, the Northeast Neighbor-feedline to St. Joe's until we can hood Association appreciates find the problem," he added. student's attempts at organizing According to Kempf, however. it will be difficult to locate the short because the cable is buried under a paved roadway which cannot be d K f d f
0
ug up. emp an a crew 
workers were running tests last night in an effort to pinpoint the location of the short. 
Kempf stated that some physical damage could have caused the short, but added that the cable could not be tampered with, since it is buried and they found no evidence of digging. Another possible reason for the power short is the cable's age. Kempf said that the cable was buried in 1953. "It was buried under a dirt road which has since been paved," he said, "and we can't go and dig up the road." Kempf also speculated that the cable could have suffered as a result of damage to another section of cable, which was replaced after being hit by lightning four and a half years ago. 
Reactions to the power failure 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil [AP] ­President Carter, stalked on his Third World tour by problems in the Middle East, said yesterday he is confident Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin can negotiate peace with his Arab neighbors. 
At the same time, Carter grap­pled with problems back home. saying price hikes posted by major 
U.S. steel producers are a serious blow to his anti-inflation program. He said he will announce new steps to control inflation when he returns to Washington. 
Carter spoke at a news confe­renee in Brasilia before flying to Rio de Janeiro with his wife. daughter Amy and top foreign policy advisers. the third stop on his seven-day tour of developing countries in Latin America and Africa. 

He arrived in this sunsplashed spread of atomic weapons. city a half hour late because of a Before leaving Brasilia, Carter tardy departure from Brasilia and also met with officials of the heavy rain, thunder and lightning Brazilian supreme court. He in the capital city. The president plugged for human rights. but drove immediately to Brazil'S balanced his call for justice for the monument to its World War II dead oppressed with an endorsement of in the center of Rio de Janeiro. efforts to provide social stability. 
He placed a wreath on the tomb Then Carter met privately with of Brazil's unknown soldier. It was Geisel. a four-star general, to his only publicly-scheduled acti-discuss both human rights and the vity. nuclear issue. They had put off the 
In Brasilia. Carter told members discussion until just before Carter of Brazil's national congress their departed for Rio de Janeiro. There nation and the United States can was no immediate report from "disagree. even vigourously on either government on the talks. occasion. without bitterness or The news conference in Brasilia, distrust." televised throughout Brazil and in 
Carter and Ernesto Geisel. presi-the United States. was Carter's dent of Brazil's military govern-second formal away-from-home ment. differ on the importance the news conference since he took American president attaches to office. His first was last Dec. 30 human rights and to curbing the during a visit to Poland . 
[

l nated between Brazilian and U.S.
[ reporters. Carter wore an ear­
l \ phone to provide him with a ~ simultaneous translation from [ Portuguese. which is spoken in l Brazil.
r  
'  
~  Cairo talks  
l  
~ [  report deadlock  
l  CAIRO*  Egypt  [AP]  _ Ezer  

~ Weizman's visit could be "a last ~ chance" for Israel to prove it wants ) peace. a high Egyptial official said [ yesterday. No progress was re­l ported in the Israeli defense mini-l ster's talks with President Anwar \ Sadat on resuming deadlocked ~ negotiations. \ The lack of progress was re­-ported by official Cairo radio. In a ~ later broadcast last night. it said ~ Sadat was sending a Jetter today to \ President Carter outlining the re­
• suits of the talks. 
~ Weizman was reported spending the night here. but his Friday schedule was not known. 
Carter is on a seven-day. four-nation foreign tour. He said yesterday in Brasilia. Brazil. that he had "not given the 
among the students varied widely. manded by the Arab nations. Bro. Viator Grzeskowski, rector of Dr. Osama el-Bax. Egypt's un-Stanford, said that some students dersecretary of state for foreign 
'th F 'd t affa1'rs. sat'd 1'n Ca1'ro the Wel'zman-
WI n ay exams were upse

because the blackout interrupted Sadat meeting did not mean Egypt their study time. and Israel were "reopening the 
A Stanford resident noted that chapter of back-and-forth negotia­many students left the hall to study tions" that ended with the suspen­at the library. He also observed, sion of direct talks 10 weeks ago. however, that some residents Cairo radio said Sadat and walked around with candles and Weizman also discussed Israel's flashlights or sat and talked about occupation of south Lebanon and other times they had been in Weizman assured the Egyptian blackouts. leader Israeli forces would with-
Later, during the second power draw as soon as the United Nations failure, another Stanford resident peacekeeping contingent is fully 1 commented that students were deployed. concerned about the possibility of The cease-fire between Pales-additional power failures during tinian guerrillas and Israeli troops the night. "Some kids with tests appeared to be holding ThUrsday in tomorrow may not go to sleep most of south Lebanon. But there because they're afraid the power were reports guerrillas were re­will go out again and their electric fusing to allow U.N. peacekeeping alarmclocks won't wake them in troops to take over two key bridges time," he said. over the Litani River, northern limit 
of the Israeli advance. 

_____F_ri_d_a...:.y.:., March 31L 1978 _
the observer 


,....News Briefs_____ 
t============================== National 
Nixon papers available 
WA~IDNGTON-U.S. Archivist James B. Rhoads says former President Richard M. Nixon's pre-presidential papers may be available to the public in about four months. Nixon, reversing an earlier stand, has agreed to make public many of the 600,000 documents he donated to the government, excluding those involving national security or invasions of his privacy, according to documents filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court. 

Army pix protested 
W ASIDNGTON -Responding to protests from a Pennsylvania feminist, the Pentagon has directed editors of "Army Reserve" to "depict men and women in the same way, professionally," says Robert L. Nelson, an assistant secretary of the Army. The directive resulted after Carol Swaim, executive board member of the Pennsylvania chapter of the National Organization for Women, voiced concern over depictions of big breasted women in the magazine. 
WEATHER 
Variable high cloudiness through tonight. Occasionally windy and warmer today with increasing cloudiness tomorrow. Lows tonight between 40 and 45. Highs and tomorrow in the upper 60s. 
,_On Campus Today_~ 
friday, march 31 
12:15 pm 3 pm 
4:30 pm 
7,9,11 pm 8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 
saturday, April 1 
9am 
-4:30pm 
11 am 
7 & 10 pm 8 pm 
sunday, april 2 
10:45 am 
7 & 10 pm 7:15pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 8 pm 8 pm, 
biology travel series "italy-its art and countryside," by karen tweedell, spon. by bio. dept., 278 galvin 
art talk film series "ree morton," spon. by art gallery, art gallery, no charge 
colloquium "the quadratic spaces over finite fields & the weight enemerator," by prof. ernst snapper, dartmouth college, spon by niath dept., 226 cc/mb 
film "annie hall," eng. aud, $1 
nd conference on christian ethics and energy "can there be christian ethics about energy?", by dr. stanley hauerwas, spon. by ctr. for the study of man in contemporary society and ctr. for pastoral & social ministry 
concert cartoon opera minstrel theatre, spon. by performing arts series, o'laughlin aud., tix $3.50 & $2 
concert nd glee club, spon by music dept., walsh hall, no charge 
nd conference on christian ethics and energy "the ethics of production," 9 am by drs. v paul kenny & john Iucey; "the ethics of decision making," 10:45 arn by drs. john houck, ellen maher & kenneth sayre; "the ethics of consumption/conservation," 2 pm by drs peter walshe & james bellis & a summary sess1on at 3:45 pm 
children's concert cartoon opera minstrel theatre, spon by performing arts series, o'laughlin aud., $1 
film "soundofmusic," spon. by ieee, eng. aud., $1 
play--second scene "the belle of amherst," by wm. luce, directed by julie jensen, stapleton lounge, nd/smc little theatre 
dedication mass the new holtkamp organ in the gallery of sacred heart, gift of mr and mrs. charles f o'malley, will be blessed at this mass, bishop william mcmanus will preside, fr. theodore hes­burgh will be the principal celebrant 
film "sound of music," eng. aud. $1 
vespers/dedicatory recital organist michael schnei­der of cologne, germany will play an all back program 
talent show mr. keenan contest, spon. by keenan hall. washington hall 
cila film "something beautiful for god," lib. aud. & lounge 
play--second scene "the belle of amherst," stapleton lounge 
senior recital margaret bailey-piano, spon. by dept. of music, little theatre 
second scene "les parents terribles," by gene cocteau, dir. by mark amenta, o'laughlin aud., no charge 



l:xtinction threatens birds 
WASHINGTON [API-Some 100 million wild birds are being trap ped each year to satisfy the growing worldwide craze for exotic household pets, pushing several for the: most popular and costly species toward extinction, says a private study relaesed yesterday. 
It said that demand for wild birds is so great that a thriving black market has developed, and smug­gling commonly is resorted to in efforts to avoid animal protection and quarantine laws. The study, entitled ''the Bird Business," noted that as many as 80 percent of all birds captured in the wild may die before reaching the customer. And it urged the federal government ban the impor­tation of birds for sale as pets. 
The report was funded by the Weorld Wildlife Fund, Defenders of Willdlife, Fund for Animals, Animal Welfare Institute and the Humane Society of the United States. 
Some of the birds are startlingly expensive. it said. For instance a 
Paper pickup now resumes 
Pick-up for the newspaper re­cycling program will resume this Sunday. Students in halls with no program are requested to place papers outside the hall's delivery door by 9 p.m. on Sunday nights. 
01ff-campus students. faculty. and staff may deposit their recy­clable papers in a bin located in Notre Dame parking lot C-3 from April 11 to 13. 
All proceeds go to the Volunteer Services Fund. If there are any questions. contact John Ryan at 8701 or 6413. 


~CThe Observer 
NiJ~ht Editor: Bob Brink 
Asst. Night Editor: Tim Sul­
livan 
La,~ out Staff: Anne Griffin, 
'v\ary Ann Cooke,  Katie Ker­ 
win  
Editorial  Layout:  Rosemary  
Mills  

Fe.iltures Layout: Bryan Cru­ley Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien, Mary Perry Tn>ists: Stacy Weaver, Mark 
Rust, Mardi Nevin, Theresa 
Richeson 
E.M.T.'s: Rich Clarizio, Leigh Tunakan N[JI Day Editor: Tom Nilsson SMC Day Editor: Ginny Nask COJi>Y Reader: Jack Pizzalato Ad Layout: Rob Civitello Photographer: Sue Coliton 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Ob!ierver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Ma1ry's College. Subscriptions m111 be purchased for no per year (S 111 per semester) from The Obs.erver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan poSTage paid, Notre Dame, lndl1n1, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Anoclated Pren. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
golden-shouldered parakeet, a bird 
native to Australia, can cost 
$10.000. A hyacinth macaw from 
South America sells for $8,000. 
The studey said one recent U.S. 
Customs seizure involved several 
hundred cockatoos valued at over 
$500.000. 
But it added that wholesale legal and illegal trafficking in wild birds is not without peril; at least nine species of parrots are now threat­ened with extinction and popula­tions of other species are declining. 
Even the mynah bird is growing increasingly rare or has disap­peared entirely in parts of its range in Southeast Asia, the studey noted. Mynahs, like many species of parrots., rarely breed in captiv­ity; most of the birds for sale in pet stores come directly from the wild. 
In addition, it said, caged birds smuggled into this country have been reponsible for outbreakes of exotic Newcastle disease in domes­

*********************************** 
AHilONS OPEN ON TilE 1979 
sports editors seninrs editor organ.izta.tiom editor business I1Ullltlger eoonts editor photngrophy staff slndent life editor 
Noexpm.enreneooHlJ'Y Contact BiD Fuh at dae Dome office, 3rd Boor LaFortune or phom~ 7524 or 3121 
********************************** 


tic poultry flocks. 
In the United States, the study 
noted, canaries once were the 
mainstay of the bird trade. "But in 
the past 20 years the public has 
become more sophisticated and its 
demands now include deverse 
species of parrots, finches, cock­
atoos, cockateils, mynahs, and 
even toucans, tanagers and other 
delicate species." 
SMC reporters promoted 
Two Saint Mary's Observer re­porters were promoted this week. Molly Woulfe. a freshman English Writing major from south Holland. II, was made a senior staff reporter. 
Ellen Buddy. a sophomore ele­mentary educatin major from Dodge City. KS. was made staff reporter. Both have been writing for the Observer since September. 
---'-------------­

~iday, March 31, 197~8______t..h~e~o~b~st31eurv~e.....r____3 



Class office tickets reveal platforms 
Editor's Note: The foUowing are The ticket includes thre.e haJI brief summaries of the dckets presidents and a member of the running for sophomore, junior and Arts and Letters Advisory Council. senior class offices. Their plat­the candidates wish to carry out the forms and petitions have been following proposals; a spring break submitted to the Office for Student trip, a senior cultural arts week, Activities, and are printed below in newsletters for aJI seniors, career the order released by that office. weeks, and the changing of Senior All tickets are listed by President, Week to Senior Month. Vice-president, Secretary and Treasurer. Junior Class 
by Andy Segovia 1) Mike Kenney, Morrissey; Laura Sisson, Lyons; Leo Latz, Pangborn; Senior Class and Paul Riehle, Keenan. This. ticket said its primary 
1) Terry Frick, CCE; Sue Flanigan, concern is to provide for the social Farley; Kathie Fitzpatrick, Walsh; needs of the class through activ­and Marian Brehmer, Badin. ities, possibly including a trip to 
This ticket includes three class Chicago, a junior football week­officers and one advisory council end, a junior class talent show, and member. They believe their exper­a Junior parents weekend dance. ience will provide continuity for Other proposals include direct elec­proposed class projects. These tion of advisory council, a more activities include a Southern Cal comprehensive bureau and sched­trip, happy hours, a Senior Wo­uling class retreats and masses. men's Evening. a Senior Formal, a 2) Tom McGrath, Zahm; Joan picnic, and Senior Fellow nom­Jacobsen, Lewis; Cindy Jennings, inations. These candidates wish to Lyons; and Tom Maurath, Alumni. create more input of ideas into The goal of the ticket is to create these projects. an active class by encouraging 
2) Jerry Castellini, Grace; Julie class awareness, student input, Rittenhouse, Badin: Barb Lang­and involvement. Their proposals henry, Lyons and Gary Fair. Zahm. include a more efficient use of the 
The goal of this ticket is to create advisory council, rotating meetings new activities along with traditional from dorm to dorm and assigns ones to enhance social activity. each council member to be respon-
Textile boycott urged 
by Bob Varettoni ''The efforts to organize have 
Senior Staff Reporter been extremely difficult." Sullivan 
said. "You can't deal with thi~ 
company with honest elections."
A representative from the Textile "Until two years ago there wasWorkers Union yesterday urged no pension plan to speak of." hestudents to support a boycott of the continued. "Until one year ago the J.P. Stevens Company. the second industry didn't even admit thatlargest textile company in the 'brown-lung' disease existed.''
world. 
Sullivan claimed that J. P.
Fr. Pat Sullivan. clergy liason for Stevens has bought out politicainsthe union, told a small crowd in the and newspapers in the. SouthernLaFortune Little Theatre that ·'no rural towns where most of the company in the history of the 1935 textile plants are located.
labor law has the kinds or number "The mass of evidence againstof violations J. P. Stevens has.'' 
them is overwhelming. And"Stevens has been thumbing its they're lying right through their nose at government and church teeth. When you get in their kindorganizations for years." Sullivan of position you either hide or lie."
added. "I don't think they're he said.
going to give in until they're "Personally. and as a priest. I'mfinancially forced to." 
not going to stick my neck out likeSullivan said the union has this for something I'm not sure of.''
begun using campaign strategie.s 
he added.
that '"really have the business The National Council of Bishops community scared." One such has not endorsed the boycott of J.
method is "going after" the indi­P. Stevens. Sullivan said. addingvidual members of the Board of that he expects an endorsementDirectors of J. P. Stevens." he 
soon.
said. 
Sullivan. who noted he doesn'tSullivan said the local boycott "represent the Church officially,"organization might pressure Rich­said that he has been involvedard Shinn. a Notre Dame trustee in the national boycott movementwho is chief executive for the for the last year and a half.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in "When I started, people saidNew York. He noted that Metro­that Stevens would give in nine orpolitan Life is a chief creditor for or ten years. but I'm more opti­the J. P. Stevens Co. 
mistic about that now.'' he said.
Stevens workers are paid an average hourly wage of $1.50 less 
Knights plan 
than other companiew in the textile 
industry. Textiles is "traditionally 

initiation 
one of the lowest paying industries 
in the country." Sullivan claimed. The Knight's of Columbus will 
Of the 83 national plants Stevens hold an initiation ceremony this runs. Sullivan pointed out. seven Sunday at 1:15 p.m. Anyone have some sort of labor organiza­interested in joining the Knight's tion. "and only three or four of of Columbus should contact Tom these are certified by the National Pepke at 1974 or call the Knight's Labor Relations Board.'' Council at 7018. 
sible for one activity. The ticket also proposes to initiate_ a variety of new and unique activities, which they have researched and believe to be feasible. 
3) Pete Cannon, Dillon; John Muldoon, Grace; Julie Lennon, 
Walsh;  and  Karl  Martersteck,  
Flanner.  
This ticket  mentioned  several  

short range plans, including happy hours, college exchange weekends, class T-shirts, a Junior Class Crazy Weekend and a Junior Parent's Weekend Dance. Their long range plans call for stronger political leadership on campus. They hope to achieve this by creating a board of governors of all class officers and by direct election of the advisory council. This platform also calls for a monthly activities calendar to replace the newsletter. 
4) Dan McCurrie, Morrissey; Erin Boyle, Farley; Pat Bryski, Stan­ford; and Bill Wetterer, Zahm. 
These candidates hope to carry out the following proposals: re­vision of the Junior Advisory Council, sponsoring of a career day, continuation of the lecture series, a ski trip, Halloween party, a summer newsletter in addition to regular monthly newsletters and three major fundraisers, the can­didates said they will stress recep­tiveness to all student input. 
Sophomore 
1) William Hochul, Zahm; Jana Schutt, Badin; Corrie Shea, Lyons; and Sam Sirko, Grace. 
The main goal of this ticket is to give identity and unity to the sophomore class. They stated that their specific programs include monthly forums in every dorm, an expanded tutoring program, and a neswletter to highlight activities. The ticket hopes to be more open and responsive to the class mem­bers. 
2) Kevin Korowieki, Zahm; Dave Khorey, St. Edwards; Jane Stoffel, Lyons; and Frank Guilfoyle, Mor­rissey. 
This ticket said it will call for unique and innovative activities, such as constructing the "world's largest banana split" as a fund raising activity. Other activities planned include trips to Chicago, Bendix Woods, dunes and fund­raisers. A comprehensive news­letter for all sophomores including foreign exchange students is also proposed by the candidates. 
3) George Gaskin, Morrissey; Brian Glade, Fisher; Joe Montroy, Cav­anaugh; and Barb Chirpich, B-P. 
These candidates said their plat­form is socially oriented because of the limited authority of the soph­omore class officers. Specific programs include a ski trip, a skating party, a class picnic, the spring formal, fundraisers, a tutor­ing program for incoming fresh­men, class masses and retreats. 
4) Dave Pusateri, Morrissey; Bob Phillips, Morrissey; Jane Nani, Lewis; and Evelyn Lara. Farley. 
They stated that their main goal is to initiate some activities which will distinguish the sophomore class. They propose a class football trip, a trip to Chicago, a ski trip, a beach picnic and sophomore· ath­letic competition. Other proposals call for direct election of advisory council and a comprehensive bi­monthly newsletter. 
5) Jim Veraldi, Zahm; Maureen McKenna, Lyons; Debbie Smith, Breen-Phillips and Aaron Bell, Fisher. 
This ticket hopes to provide extensive interaction between students and class officers in order to create a wide range of social activity. Their programs include initiation of a newsletter for foreign study students and a survey of the entire class to provide more stu­dent input. 
6) Mike Dovey, Zahm; Aileen Lavin, Badin; John Pinter, Keenan; and Jim Blomberg, Flanner. 
These candidates said their goals include increasing student involve ment in determining events by periodic polling; increasing aware­ness through sophomore activity calendar; and increasing budget through fundraisers and expansion of activities. Their platform calls for representation on advisory council to be based on hall pop­ulation. 

7) Rosemary Abowd, Farley; Mike Ward, Dillon; Cathy Donovan, Walsh; and John Solari, Zahm. 
These candidates hope to ease the difficulty of the sophomore year by providing diverse social and spiritual activities. They stated their specific programs pro­vide modification of Student Gov­ernment to create more student involvement in planning, expan­sion of tutoring program, creating a permanent publicity committee, open meetings and organization of class masses and retreats. 
8) Keith Melaragno, Howard; Col­lean Short, Badin; Jean Menoni, Breen-Phillip~; and Ted Horan, Alumni. 
The ticket said its main goal is to make the sophomore year more than "just an in-between year." They wish to create more student involvement through activities. 

Contact the L. H. Inn-255-4786 or visit us 2754 Lincolnwai East Mishawaka This add entitles bearer to 1 FREE carafe of wine with meal. 
~-----------~ ---·---· ·--~-·­

Our Specialty: ~illiillili_._.. Oven Baked 
APPLE PANCAKES Extra large, using fresh apples 

Sunday, 7PM 
& pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
LaFortune :Theati--e 
US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 

the observer Friday, March 31, 1978__ 



Teenagers hired as hit men 
NEW YORK [AP] -Two boys aged 13 and 14 who alJegedly 
killed a numbers dealer with a shotgun had been hired as "hit men" for SSOO by a rival gambler who may have gotten the idea from a television show, police said yesterday. 
The boys have been arrested. but the man who hired them "is on the lam." Detective Lt. Gino Delsignore said. 
The boys' names were not di­vulged because the law forbids it. Ncr did police identify the man sought for paying the boys $50 each to kill Elijah Smith, 36, with a promise of $400 more when the job was done. 
Police speculated that hiring 
juveniles as killers was inspired by him. police said.

r=--------;:::;;;;:;:====:--==----,11
I ' 'I iI) I~ 1/ ~' ffll I n
'I' 
, 

,___..--·-_:.. ---~,.--' \h} + 

7:00 Thur 
9:35 7:15 9:20
Fri. 
7:00 


''KI~~ fOR oflrnl~~ 
101AUY DiffERENT f 





~ ­
MA01'l/NE5, BooKS., PosrcQS, Jf\JC£NSt, (US10M T-SH) RTS' :rewar<.y, (£At/~~~ 0CDP$ AND orl-k-~ 'i:Jx:i.it SrvrF! 
~A TDTAW-j DIFFEY<E"'-.J\ "S"t-\Of'PIN.b !;:)<P~R_IE'I\JCe, IR~ 13::::cbJE !.1 
~~ m1~ MISHAWAKA 
()PEN fYlClr-.l.-9\T. 10-q ;suN. t:i_--<o 
.. ~ ~ ~ 
the plot line in an episode of the 
"Kojak" series that aired last 
week. 

"The guy who hired the kids got the idea. just like in the Koja.k story. that they would get off easy if caught because of their youth." said one policeman, who asked not to be identified. 
Using children in crimes carrying major penalties is not new here. Juvenile runners were pressed into widespread use by narcotics rae­keteers when New York adopted laws under Gov. Nelson A. Rock­efeller that subjected adults to life terms for dealing. 
The "hit men" both are enrolled in public school. the elder in eighth grade and the other a year behind 
~~;SSun Fri -4 :OO 
6:45 6:459 :20 
9:20 
They were remanded to the Spof­
ford Youth House to await action by 
Family Court, whose proceedings 
are shielded from public and press 
scruting. 
The stiffest penalty available by 
law for a juvenile homicide of­
fender is 18 months in a "secure 
facility," meaning a place that is 
locked and guarded. An adult 
convicted l'lf murder can get 25 
years to life. 
Smitr was blasted in the body 
and head when he entered the 
hallway of the Bronx building in 
which he lived at 1 a.m. Wednes­
day. The waiting killers dashed 
down from a second-floor landing, 
with the 14-year-old pulling the 
trigger. police said. 
The man who hired the boys 
wanted Smith killed for infringing on his gaming territory. police said. 
wTt~eya s~~~g~~g~ro:~~~:u~~ew~~~~ 
was recovered. 
Delsignore said Detectives Jack 
McAnn and Thomas Davis learned 
that Smith once had gotten one of 
the youngsters in trouble. 
"Smith had fingered one of the 
kids in a previous crime," he said. 
''McAnn and Davis became aware 
of that and by following leads from 
there. tracked down the two kids." 


Foreign film series to open Sunday 
The International Festival Show­
case, featuring classic and contem­
porary foreign films, will open on 
Sunday night at 8 p.m. in the 
Center for Continuing Education 
(CCE) with Jean Renoir's Rules of 
the Game. 
The film series is co-sponsored 
by the CCE, the Educational Media 
Department, the Speech and 
Drama, and the NO Film Society. 
Films to be shown include: 
Mizoguchi's The Crucified Lovers 
on April 9 at 4:15 p.m. in the 
Library Auditorium; Malle's Zazie 
on April 16 at 8 p.m. in the CCE; 
Bertolucci's The Spider's Strat­
egern on April 23 at 8 p.m. in the 
CCE; and Wcrtmiller's All Screwed 
Up on April 30 at 8 p.m. in the 
CCE. 


part of the five-woman exhibition to open tomorrow in Moreau Gallery at 7 p.m. The show, consisting of senior comprehensive projects, will also feature the ceramic sculpture of Nancy Allred, jewelry by Cynthia Barna and photography by Catherina Gibbons. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 
Man survives 27 floor fall 
SAN FRANCISCO [AP] -Med­ical authorities expressed amaze­ment yesterday that a man sur­vived a 27-story plunge down a ventilation shaft of the Trans­america Building. hitting a cement floor at a speed approaching I 00 mnh. 
The man. identified by police as 22-vear-old Harold Brown of Tac~ma. Wash.. suffered two severly fractured thighbones. two fractured kneecaps and a fractured heelbone. but apparently no inter­nal injuries in the 324-foot fall late Wednesday night. Missio Emer­gency Hospital spokeswoman Linda Johns said yesterday. 
"That's all. I'm not kidding you. 

It about blew my mind." said Ms. Johns. She said he was in stable condition after surgery to repair the fractures and was expected to live. 
Brown was conscious as ambu­lance crew removed him from the landmark. pyramid-shaped build­ing. He was chanting. "Help me! Oh God. help me!." witnesses reported. and was singing various tunes including "Camptown Races" and one that went, "Uh. 
what a trip I'm on!" 
The following story was pieced together by police, building of­ficials and a security guard who heard and saw the entire drama on a closed circuit television monitor on the ground floor: 
Brown charged through the building's locked doors at about 
10:30 p.m. as an employee was leaving and dashed past a security guard. shouting. "I want to see the man at the top! I was sent by God." 
He scurried up an escalator to the second floor and ran into a maintenance stairwell with police in pursuit. The stairwell not used by building employees, is adjacent to a ventilation shaft which would carry smoke out of the building in case of fire. 
Brown sprinted up to the 32nd tloor. where a police officer who had taken the elevator confronted him. Brown opened the door to the shaft. scaled an eight-foot fence, and began shimmying down a pipe molded to the side of the 15-by-30 foot shaft. 
As police tried to talk him out of 1he shaft. Brown shouted obsceni­ties and spat at them. At the 29th lloor. he shouted a final obscenity. 
•.Yelled "Goodbye!" and let go. falling feet first to the secona-stc1'ry mezzanine. 


Iron man sign-ups begin next week 
Bookstore Basketball registra­tion will begin this Tuesday. April 
4. Teams may be registered by calling Tourney Commissioner Leo Latz at 8361 from 7-10 p.m. each evening next week. Each team should be sure to include a team name and two team captains. Also. eligibility rules will strictly be enforced this year. Only graduate and undergraduate N.D. men. women. faculty and staff as of Jan. 
31. 1978 are eligible. Only one varsity or former varsity basketball player may be on a team. A total of three varsity football players are a.llowed per team and only two varsity football players are allowed if a team plays with a varsity basketball player. No one may play for more than one team. Be sure to rt!gister early as the deadline is Friday night, April 7 at midnite and only 256 teams will be accepted on a first come-first serve basis. 
Applications for the Bookstore Basketball Staff will also be ac­C(!pted next week. Applications may be submitte to Latz at 140 Pangborn and should include 
·name. address. phone number. 
Meeting set 


for An Tostal 
There will be an organizational meeting for An Tostal on Sunday at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. 
Anyone interested in working on the An Tostal committee or events is asked to attend. 


... 
Friday, March 31, l978 the observer 
5


Applications available 


McKenna seeking to fill cabinet positions 

Andy McKenna will take office as Student Body President tomorrow, as retiring SBP Dave Bender steps down. [Photo by Sue Coliton] 
by Kevin Richardson 

Student Body President-elect Andy McKenna is taking applica­tions for various cabinet positions within his new administration, including the four new offices of Career Development, Social Life, Housing and Security. Applica­tions will be taken up until 5 p.m. this Monday. and an announce­ment of the new Student govern­ment Cabinet will be made some­time toward the middle of next week. 
"The new cabinet member in the office of Career Development would be responsible for working with the Administration in the establishment of a Career Develop­ment Center along with coordinat­ing other career counselling activi­ties such as workshops concerned with resume writing,'' McKenna said. 
The social Life Cabinet Officer. according to McKenna. will be working with other student leaders such as class and hall president's in developing and coordinating an "activity oriented" social life. "this person will also investigate new ideas to enhance social life on campus by seeing what other schools are doing and making sure planned calendar events are well publicized." he added. 
· The Housing Cabinet Officer will have a few specific areas in which to begin his tenure. McKenna said . 
"He  will  be  researching  such  
things  as  fire  regulations,  hall  
social  space.  maintainence·  and  

housing contracts and their effects 
Jung Conference opens in CCE 
senting their I.D. card. Kap­acinskas said that approximately· 300 people from all parts of the country have come to Notre Dame for the conference which is held annually to bring together people interested in Jungian psychology and its different applications. 
Aiding Kapacinskas on the con­ference planning committee were Frederick Crosson, professor of the Philosophy of Religion at Notre Dame and editor lf the Review of Politics, and Morton Kelsey, pro­fessor in the Theology department at Notre Dame and a foremost spokesman for Christian healing using Jungian psychology. Kelsey was one of the featured speakers on Thursday's program. 
In addition to the various speak­ers, the conference features, throughout each day, various ex­periments with Jungian psychology and also videotapes of past 
[continued on page 12] on student's individual lives," the president-elect noted. 
Investigating the administra­tion's current solutions to security problems both on and off~campus will be the responsibility of the new Security Officer, according to Mc­Kenna. He will work to see that student's are informed of any and all actions in the area of security. McKenna also stated that the Security Officer will examine the possibility of developing a Security Advisory Board and work will all relevant groups on campus in improving the security service. 
Two other new offices that are not cabinet positions. but may eventually become such. are the Travel Commissioner and the Co­ordinator for the 3rd World De­velopment Conference. "the Travel Commissioner will be· re­sponsible for coodinating group trips to large metropolitan areas while the 3rd World Development Conference Coordinator will be arranging all the essentials for the upcoming Conference on the 3rd World." McKenna commented. 
McKenna also plans to split the current Inter-Racial/Social Con­cerns position into two separate cabinet positions. • • Although these 
tl AOmtSSton 

two will undoubtedly continue to work and function closely to­gether," McKenna noted, "for eurposes of administratiQn and policy. they will be broken· into two distinct offices." 
Students may pick up applica­tions in the Student Government offices on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center. Ques­tions about any of the new cabinet positions can be directed to Andy McKenna at 3597 or 2291 . or to Mike Roohan at 8837. Questions about previously established cab­inet positions can be directed to the current office holder listed in the front of the Student telephone directorv. 
by Mark Perry Staff Reporter 
The sixth annual C.G. Jung Conference, sponsored by the Soc­iety for Jungian/Archetypal Psy­chology and Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education (CCE), began yesterday at the CCE. This year's conference, entitled "Heal­ing: Body/Soul," concentrates on the healing aspects of Jungian psychology, and will continue through this Sunday. 
Thomas J. Kapacinskas, assis­tant professor of Jungian and archetypal psycholoty in the Uni­versity's Theology department and co-ordinator for the conference, said that all students and faculty are invited to attend any part of the conference free of charge by pre-

OPEN: MON -·THURS 9AM-11 PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
LOCK NORTH OF STATE LINE ON U.S. 31 


Tickets now on sare at Student Union Ticket Office and ACC Box Office 
1..--·-------· -·----~-·----------------------J 
,:: Co-STARRII•'JACQUEUNE BISSET 
=-~\T(:~\I~~UL H~\LL, ~\lli~U::V~\ 111en ST.MJ.\Irf'S -1::-1~11)~\Y if S1-\T. ::.MJ.\I~:H ~If, ~\l~tl ~\T 7,~,11. 

SArvR.E ~ ~1liS SlMt1ER: Will-I NO OBUGATION. F YOU CAN MEET 1l£ CHAllENGE YOUWU.EARN A MARtE OFFICER'S COI\NSSION lJ'ON GRADWrnON: 
D 
-S1ucler1lCenEr

~,March31. 

. . . ..
, 
-
-
--~~ 





Preventing Fires 
Two fires in Notre Dame dormi1ories in the past school year have attracted the attention of the administration. Their concern and that of the NO Fire Department has reo\ulted in proposed limitations on flamable material used for decorative improvements in dorm rooms. Unfortun­ately, that measure Is not enough. 
Fire prevention demands cooperation from everyone on campus. 
The buildings on campus conformed to the fire regulations at the time they were built. Because several buildings are quite old, they do not meet present fire safety laws. The NO Fire department is working to make these buildings as safe as possible through the installation of better fire alarms, heat detectors and sprinkler sys­tems. Routine inspections and regular fire drills further serve the department in their pursuit of safety. 
Obviously the only way to meet the current fire safety regulations in every building is to rebuild every building. This is, to say the least, costly and impractical. The best alternative is for each student to become aware of and then practice good fire safety habits. This includes becoming aware of potentially hazardous systems in 
the dormitory which  make the  building  
susceptible  to  fires  and  which  place  its  
residents in danger.  
Wiring  in  the  dormitories  was  not  

installed to service all the appliances which students use today. Fifteen amps per room 
will not accomodate stereos, refrigerators, 
hair dryers and desk lamps simultaneously. 
Until such time, if ever, that the University 
sees fit to supply more amps per room, 
students must exercise caution to avoid 
overloading circuits. 
Storage space is limited in many halls. However, storing desks, bicycles and extra wardrobes in hallways where they block exits only creates another safety problem. 
Mischievous false alarms lessen the effectiveness of the system and show disrespect for fellow students. The more often false alarms occur, the less likely residents are to evacuate when the alarm rings. If fire did occur students who remained in the rooms might be in serious danger. 
Avoiding the presence combustible mat­erial is yet another example of student caution. Caution in using candles and in choosin9 decorative materials could certainly pnevent the spread of fires. 
The Univ,ersity must play its part also. Limiting student use of flammable materials is reasonabl1e but suggesting other means of room impmvement is a more acceptable alternative. 
Students to make their rooms more comfortable will continue to improve them. The University must make a choice. They can provide rooms which are more com­fortable and less functional, or they can guide the student in ways to improve his room. 
P.O. BOX Q 
A Friday Prayer 
Our Professor. Who Art at Lecturn, Hallowed Be Thy Text. Thy Voice Resound, Thy "Points'l Abound, In our Sleep, as in the Lecture. Give us this Day our Weekly Quiz, And Forgive us our Snoozing, As we Forgive those who Snooze bc.side us. And Lead us Not into a Chern Major. But DELIVER US FROM EMIL... 
a freshnum postulant 
Gay alumnus speaks out 
Dear Editor: 
The Gay Community of Notre Dame has received the following letter from an alumnus of Notre Dame. and wish to share it with the readers of The Ob.erver. 
Dear G.C.N.O.: Thank God you are there! Not for me. but for the students now. 
I just ran across your address from a "directory" listed in. a paperback I purchased entitled Out of the CJo.ets and simply wanted to make contact with you. 
I attended N.D. (in the late fifties). graduating with a B.S. in 
Commerce. Unfortunately I did not 
recognize my "condition" for som~' 
ten years later and after marriage. 
Had you been there during that 
time I'm sure my life would be 
totally different -maybe even 
happy. 

After graduation it was a st-ort stint in the army and then eventu­ally to Law School. Now I am currently practicing in this little town ... However, I am contemplat­ina a move to (a large city) for a new vocation. I am sure a suitable synonym for this town is Straight­ville. You can't imagind -1500 people and the closest thing I can imagine to the Sahara Desert. 
Wonder how many of us there were at N.D. during my year there? 
And the pitiful part is whoever they were. they were (like me) so naive and ignorant about homosex­uality that they didn't even know it! Who said '"ignorance is bliss"? You wouldn't believe the atmos­phere at N.D. at that time ­practically like being in a seminary -yes, I flirted with that once. too. 
If you do nothing else, make it known on campus that you are there and ifsomeone has an inkling they may be gay -encourage them to see you. Respect the fact they may be the worst closet case existing (outside of myself) and probably need anonymity. They must me made to feel someone understands and if they do make contact they won't immediately become a screaming queen wear­ing a purple "G" instead of the 
N.D. monogram. Communication 
is vital. I must say I enjoyed my years at 
N.D. At the time I didn't think I could be happier. On reflection, I think it was simply because I was engulfed in a totally male environ­ment. 
... Have you thought of starting a Dignity Chapter? I belong to Dignity...Last weekend attended their Mass. It was delightful! I think I have finally (within the last year) reconciled myself with God (if not the Church) and so am having fewer and fewer qualms in that area. I suppose it is plain R.C. rationalization and I'm probably paving my private road to Hell. but pray not! I have been receiving Communion since Christmas -why should I even feel it necessary to mention that? 
I hope you have some under­standing priests available. If the religious community would recom­
-mend their penitents seek you out, think "business" would boom! I mean that sincerely. 
Well. I must close. As I said in the beginning I just wanted to make contact. wish you well and perhaps give a spark of courage. Will remember you and all within your Community in my prayers. 
Hope you realize how fortunate you are living in this day (putting asided Anita for the moment) when hopefully enough media exposure. etc.. at least brings the gay life to attention. I don't believe I heard the word "homosexual" until I was 
30. much less thought there might be a possibility. "I are one!" The Catholic Church is so remiss in this 1~egard -we have so much to give if ''it" would just let us. Well ­maybe in another 500 years; I haven't totally given up yet. 
I send you my sinc~:re wish for 

~~ The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving 
the notre dame and saint mary's 
community 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame a~~ Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of the administration of either institution. The news is_ reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the v1ews of their authors. Column space if available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opm1ons on. campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Tony Pace 

Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland 
Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor 
Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 

Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 

Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley 

St. Mary's Editor 
Ann Gales News Editor 

Mike Lewis 

News Editor Diane Wilson 
News Editor Ray O'Brien 
Sports Editor Bryan Gruley 
Features Editor 
Box Q 

Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
~ Friday, March 31, 1978 ~ 

seriously,folks===== 


Prolonging Work 
======art buchwald 
Washington --Congress has just passed a law moving up the date of mandatory retirement from 65 to 
70. Excluded from mandatory re­tirement is Congress itself, and representatives and senators can serve as long as they can get elected. 
A friend of mine, who worked on the retirement bill, explained why the congressional waiver was in­serted mto the law. 
"It was mostly done," he said, ''to accommodate the members of the Joint Congressional Compro­mise Committee on Energy who are tryng to work out a mutually agreeable solution on the energy bill. .. "'I don't follow you." 
"Well, we don't exp~ct the House and Senate to reach compromise for years. Many of the conferees are in their 40s and 50s now, and it would be a pity to make them quit working on the compromise when they reach 70." 
You figure it's going to take that long for Congress to produce an energy bill?" 
"It might be shorter or it might be longer. You can't pass something this complicated in on Administra­tion. Right now we have 17 senators and 25 House members 
Peace. Love to you through Notre Dame Name withheld 

As the author hoped, G.C.N.D. does stand ready to receive persons confidentially into its community who wish to learn more about their own homosexual orientation in a non-threatening environment. And we intend to continue the process of information and education for the whole University community concerning homos~xuality. 
-----------------------------------~ 
HI, JJIERe, FEUAH; I~ 
YOfJfl.. .5EA7MA7C, RIJLANP 
WELLI 50 'rrJ(J 8Ufl..lllV HE[)t£Y, JR., ABC 
ARE! I'M !?JCJ<. WIDe WORJ..[) OF NEWS! 
R£fJfeP.N, fli'SH­
N6TDN "P05T. ,,
\ 
J 

DOONESBURY f 

t 
a 
' 
a compromise on gast regulation by 1985, the energy bill 
will then have to go to thet House-Senate Compromise Com-t mittee on Oil Taxation. Many of the 
same people will move over to that & committee." ' "I forgot about the Compromiset Committee on Oil Taxation," I 
admitted.t ''Most people have, and that's a why they expect an energy bill ' overnight.''t [c] 1978, 
·.•·.xi, .,, ~~~~~g~l~tl~ps-~~~cate 
• 
meeting every day to work out the gas deregulation problems. We're hoping they'll reach an agreement by 1990... 

"But it's President Carter's energy bill. He might now be President by the time it's sent to the White House." 
"I'm sure who ever is President will invite him back to witness the signing of the bill," my friend told me. 

"Is 1990 the cutoff date on an agreement about gas deregulation. We're just hoping that if men of goodwill work from now until then, they will come up with a solution which will satisfy everybody. If they don't, the Compromise Com­mittee may still be in session when we enter the 21st century." 
"Many of the conferees will be quite old by then," I said. 
"That's true, but it would be unfair to force them into retirement when they've lived with the bill so long. You don't want to bring new faces to the committee who are not familiar with the issues." 
''What happens if a senator or congressman on the Compromise Committee decides not to run?" 

''Then he will have to be replaced. But most of the committee mem­bers enjoy the give and take on gas deregulation so much that it's doubtful they would give up a chance to play such an unimportant role in the energy future of tne country." 
"As they grow older won't the debate on gas deregulation take its toll physically on the members?" "Oh, there may be a few who would become hard of hearing. But we don't worry about this because they've heard the arguments on both sides so many times that it won't matter if they don't hear them again. By their late 80s, even 

if  they  doze off they  won't  be  
missing much."  
"Let's  be  optimistic  for  a  

moment," I said, "and suppose they reach a compromise by 1985. What will these people do then?" He laughed. "I doubt if there is any chance of that. Even if they reach de­





sur 


Volume 12, No. 107.5 April 1, 1978 

DLA claims 
responsibility 
for ACC bombs 
Mike Lewis Absurder Staff 

The Notre Dame AthletiC and Convocation Center was completely destroyed yesterday when six bombs exploded simultaneously in various locations in the building. The Dillon Liberation Army. responsible for the kidnapping of the Grace Hall President last fall. claimed responsibility for the bombing~ 
No one was injured in the blasts, however. University President Fr. Teddy Hesburgh called from Paris to say the building was a total Joss. 
·'It'II take possibly 40 or SO cents to rebuild it,'' he said. indicating that a fund drive was already in progress. He also stated that he felt the alumni would be "generous in their contributions" and the--"""' money could be raised "hopefully by 1984." 
An unnamed spokesman for the DLA said the bombing was to protest University regulations banning lofts or other flammable constructions in the residence halls. 
Head basketball Richard "Dugger" Fipls said "I really hate to see the old building go," referring to the many spirited victories teams have earned in the ACC. "However, I think the old fieldhouse will more than meet the needs of both the basketball team and other sports programs at ND." 
God to speak at Commencement 
Bombs planted by the DLA devasted the ACC yesterday. A spokesman for the terrorist group said the attack was in retaliation for new fire directives. 
Michael Berberich Absurder Staff 

University President, the Rever­endTheodoreHesburgh. announced early today that God will be the featured speaker at the grad~ation ceremonies of thi-; vear's senior class. Hesburgh sta"ted that God would be making what he termed a "major policy speech." For securi­ty reasons, the graduation will be held in the Fr. Edmund Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Additionally, so that large do­nors to the University can be in attendence. this year's seniors will be limited to one graduation ticket per person. "Seniors needn't worry," stated one official. "we have already reserved the best section of the bleachers for the parents. They have made sacrifi­ces for the last four years, and this. is the least we can do for them." 
Hesburgh pointed out that will be the first ever appearance by God at a major American university. He added, "because of his advan­ced age, God doesn't travel as much as he used to, so we are really thrilled that he would take the time from his busy schedule to be here in honor of the class of '78." 
Fischer intruder escapes 
by Ray Rafter Novice Absurder Staff 

Yesterday, Fisher Hall resident Jim Shoo reported that a "per­verted" girl entered his unlocked third floor single room and awoke him. 
Shoo, who was unable to ad­equately describe the intruder, said that he contacted ND security immediately after the girl had left his room. Notre Dame Security Officers responded quickly and encountered an unidentified female leaving the area fitting the de­scription given by Shoo. The three Security men halted the fleeingfigure, out 'she ·escaped by k.tlock­
ing them in the snow and stealing their car. Security; refused to comment on the incident. <It 
The intruder was described as a female Caucasian, 18-20 yars of age, and about five feet, three inches with shoulder-length brown 
hair. At the time she was wearing a green parka and afaded blue jeans and black boots. She appeared to have a whip slung over her shoulder. 
In reference to the recent assault in El Paso, James Rover, dean of students, said, "Even though the description of the intruder fits that of the woman rapist in El Paso, there is not enough to indicate a 
·~_:__:.:_[g~-pWp'.l8f.. ·Ae~_tbe..pr.esis:leDt.to..eat.here..at '--MMMMMMMMMNWWWWWWWWIWWMIVR 
Many seniors expressed disap­pointment with the choice. Bill Alban, chairperson of the commit­tee to choose a graduation ::;peaker, stated "We are really disappointed that Father Ted did not bother to consult the committee. He just went right over our heads without even telling us." Alban added, "The committee has put in many weeks of hard work. We had hoped to have either Howard Cosell, Doctor J. or Jane Fonda as a speaker." 
Charles "JoJo" Dressman has organized a petition and scheduled a demonstration on the steps of the Administration building for tomor­row at noon to protest the selection by the university. "We would have preferred a more contemporary speaker," he said. "However, because we would rather have all our families here, we can live with the selection if only the university will switch the location to the football stadium. I'm sure that our speaker could arrange good weath­er. Otherwise, we demand a new speaker." 
When confronted with the dis­pleasure of the seniors, one high ranking administrator who wished to remain anonymous responded, "Just who do they think is running this place? If the seniors-thought they-had a say in the matter, they Lastly, one official stated that were deceiving themselves. God's appearance at the University They've been here for four years, would give everyone the chance to they ought to know by now that we offer thanks. "After all," he said, could care Jess what they think. "we have had two national cham­They don't contribute enough to pionships this year." influence us." He added , "And in When contacted in the Vatican, accordance with past policy, any­God's press agent, Sr. Mary Chris­one who proteststomorrowwill have tmas, released a statement, saying fifteen minutes to disperse or be "God is delighted at having the faced with expulsion." opportunity of speaking for Himself 
AtSMC 

Student government dissolved 
by Jean Powley Absurder Staff 
Saint Mary's Student Body Pre­
sident Merry "Royale" Rock-the­
Boat last night announced a total 
dissolvement of SMC student gov­
ernment, with the exception of the 
position of SBP, as the last official 
act of her reign, which ends 
Monday. 
"Student Assembly, The Hall 
President's Council, The Board of 
Governance and all the various 
committees of student government 
have all tried to exercise too much 
power this year," she proclaimed 
before a hushed dining hall (absurd 
in itself). 
"Therefore, I have decided to 
dissolve all of these student 
government organizations. From 
this time on, the government will 
consist only of a SBP and a close 
company of advisers, with advisory 
power only, " Rock-the-Boat an­
nounced, arms upraised in a sacred 
manner. 
"In addition, I have decided that 
Reidinger House will henceforth be 
the SBP's official residence and the 
21 Club her official receiving Hall. 
Students will take turns cooking 
and cleaning for the president, 
much in the way parietal duty is, at 
present, assigned. No complaints 
should be heard because such duty is an honor and an obligation. "After all, it would be absurd to SAGA with everyone else!!" she commanded. 
"Students with cars will have the added honor of chauffeuring the president around campus and the city. But remember, these vehicles must be kept perfectly clean and in good running order in order for the owner to become one of my chauffeurs," Rock-the-Boat conti­nued. 
"Oh, I almost forgot," Rock-the­boat said. "My residence will be the only building on campus with electrical power. Novena candles will be provided to all other students," she promised. 
Her final proclamation of the dinner hour was the fact that any student wishing to meet with her for any reason must schedule an "audience" with either her secre­tary, Merry Lavatory, or her ser­geant-at-arms, John Dug-A-Coal­Mine, at least three days in advance. 

Rock-The-Boat then turned slow­ly, being careful not to trip over her newly-donned full-length powder blue, SMC insignia-ed cape, and paraded out followed by her advisers. 
The last girl in line carried a basket full of slips of paper which she threw out much like a flower girl strews flowers in a wedding procession. On each of the slips was written, "I thank God and the Saint Mary's student body for acknowledging my divine right to royal treatment for at least three days of my year in office. It makes the other 362 days seem worth­while!" 

at the bastion of American Catho­licism.'' 
After graduation exercises, God will meet with Hesburgh, the Trustees, and a large contributor to appeal for substantial donations to the Campaign for Notre Dame. Hesburgh stated, "We need more money if we are to keep Notre Dame from becoming a school accessible only to the wealthy." 
Obscure Editorial 
*The Absurder 
a dependent newspaper totally subser­viant to the student government of Notre Dame-St. Mary's. 
The Absurder is an annual April 1st publication of the staff of the Observer, student publication of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. All stories are entirely ficticious in 
nature. T~e pu~pose of the Absurder is to provide humorous sat1re t? 1ts readers in the spirit of April fool's Day and to P~~e' fun at particular campus institutions and person­
alities. John Calcutt Executive Editor--Absurder Editor Barb Langhenry ·--Absurder Editor Bob Varettoni Stud Reporter 
Tom Dowd Layout Staff Mark Perry Layout Staff Mike Lewis Stud reporter 
April 1, 1978 
Xou 0 j mqy­~, Zneimxzvgyv.i? wi fqc ?xfqbzJrtyi ?t 00iztnzg Y?mz o:rb tfczj mtzgy. s0 qint i>mz szc0 llb-hwrd mavnimgf wrd fvlzd a' nzj ypYpzg 10daf lhal IJEj ypv.cer p; krmj n \W Tne Os,egvzg anb is lzgally0 wneb s y '&me \tqdznty of tnz Qnp.rzrs}if of Notre Damz wrd Saprt Mvgy'yV0llzgz.g 
The Obszrver edJ1°ry anb stax a~ your emplofzzs. Foq yfiarz tnz reypom;ibJli.tf X>r tnz pfbuct wz pfduve· Isn't it w;out tifle fitOU cnevkeb uy out 
'I?. ogfw night i}_qzs.. Feb· . ; Thz us serezg wilr nolb Open House for air ~emse~ oxtnz Notgl Damz-Sap:1t 1"1anr's community· Fr0m 9 c.m· t0 ~dniiht 0 qt stvix wilr se on' hanb to \Prrbuvl t0tiry, Wlyj er kuestiony and snow i'q' tne xrewspv.cer im actiom We h0 pz lou j ilr c?mz awaf j itn a betterqnderstandirrg of noj yo'.lf rrewspvpeg wo6 Wib le\We sehinb y u some plzas omhow to mVIke it w0~ better· ' ' 
Hl lesy tnWl tj o m0 irtny, tne current Ob,erve! management'j Ill nanb over the pvper t next year's editor and stvix Freyhmen. soRhomorzs Wld jUniors we xrezbed n°w 0 begin tgVIinpJ.i tor stax poy}iions in all' departments next i.ear· 
In return for yoqr tlme and twznts, we can °ffer: 
-An p:1yibz lo0k at 1\ID-SMV: its organizatiom its i:>olivies and the people who rumit. 
-Training in skJlly that are useful in many a~as of lifz. Almost eezry group, c?mpWly and organ.(:Zat~n in the country gety involvzd in promo i?ns. wlvertising and cubliEat~r.ns -.SO~ebody be signs and writes w.r th, sz trade magazines, public ~lations brovhurzs and cataloguey). 
-A large enoufh salary in most are\W to keep yoq in Co e and popcorn fr0 m the Huddle orvoffez ......anb bonuts X"0 m Darby's. 
-An opportunity to meet new Wld 
Pitzresting peopm--staff. adminp;trato~. 'lVI'Q~ thamthat. wz hope that manf 0 x other students, visiting lectu~rs. faculty, 
Lack of lighting 
you will want to tv.kz w pzrsonar hand ln etc. ma~rrg four nej ypaper the best Ii vam -lm spite of all our hard work and p0 ySibly be. The Observer needy writers, ovcasional sleeclzss nights, we do have causes tuition risea~isty, salespeopre, production j orkz~, fun. ~ e enjoy working w}ih each otheg 
by And By Tht~ escorts will wait for St. oX!ice staf.i-peopre j }ih all bifferznt and we tv.ke pride ]Jl covering campus Absurder Staff Mary's studt'nts in the dark alley ba~roundy and integlyts· If you h\We m ws w; best wz cwt. between the Administra­experiznce, greatS if not, j e'll train you. ~ uy tomorrow night om the toe floor • tion Building and Washington Hall, Many 0 f oug s zst peoclz nwl nzver j ritten 0 f LaFortune for reX"eshments wn:l a closer The Administration announced he said. They'll be wearing trench 
yesterday that the tuition will coats, "and one or two may be
a storl or demned wpage betore. iook at youg nezwspapzr. 
increase $50 a student next semes­carrying a brown paper bag," he ter to help alleviate the lack of added.. lighting on the Notre Dame cam­Joy also revealed that a major pus. motion picture company has signed 
the Notre Dame Security Depart­"We"re going to issue miner's ment to star in its next feature.
helmets to all female students, The film, called "The Securitystarting with the August registra­Department Without a Gun," willtion," Executive Vice-President Al­be "a rollicking adventure storymond Joy announced yesterday. 

full of daring do," according to 
In addition, Joy announced that Joy. male students will receive small In one scene, Joy said, two Notre flashlights with "-Duracell Batter­Dame students using their new ies.'· He also outlined plans for flashlights late at night will be 
an escort service between the arrested for impersonating a car ND-SMC campuses. trving to sneak on campus. 
Security reports elephant not sighted 
by Barb Laogbenry taken with him for the folks back Absurd Executive Editor home. Peers is upset about the nasty rumors he has heard regarding his 
• • An elephant was not seen on men's handling of the incident. campus last night," Director of "We were there with our NO Security Art Doesn't Peer, empha­elephant repellent and ND eleph­tically stated yesterday. ~·some­ant nets to apprehend the criminal, thing as big as an elephant would but h<: did not show up, so we did have been spotted by my men or not act on the incident." quickly apprehended," he added. "It does seem odd that an 
Sources who prefer to remain elephant would not appear on anonymous, say the elephant did campus," Jim Rover, dean of not trample any small children, students, stated. "Peers men did
Price trapped 
hippies or football players. The good, though, by being on the Edmund Price ~as found ":ith his head wedged between two shelves in the North l>ining Hall elephant reportedly did not storm spot." The criticism that they acted yesterday mormng. When f1remen asked how it happened Price explained "I was just reaching in into Fr. Teddy Hesburgher's office is unfounded, he added. 
for the last bowl of jello." ' and demand to have his picture Nurse Brute) at the Infirmary, err, Student Health Center, stated mat no students reported sevete bruises, lacerations or elephaut
Tlhe Absurder agrees 

bites yesterday, but the report of an epidemic of Bubonic Plague is true.
tc~ implement suggestions 

''Tht~re is no need for alarm The Committee to Improve the Tenth Place --One licorice Stick though since epidemics are an 
Abs~~rder has released its first All ten students will also be everyday thing,'' she reassured the study, and the Absurder Editorial taken on a tour of the Potawatomie students, noting that they should Board has agreed to implement its Zoo. stay up all night and drink beer. suggestions. Results of a reader­
ship survey show that the only things students are interested in are !>ports and studies. Therefore, 

Bug found in colld capsule . 
all sports will now be reported on the front page. This will enable Absurd Editor's note: contents, according to the suit. students to see their favorite This Is for real folks. He forwarded the insect to the stories without turning the paper MINNEAPOLIS [AP] -A man who U.S. Food and Drug Administra­over. Also, a weekly list of the top opened a cold capsule to investi­tion which identified it as a click ten students in each college will be gate an advertised claim that it beetle, the suit says. reported. The students will be contained "600 tiny time pills" has Ever since, Foslien says, he has awarded as follows: filed suit against the manufacturer been paranoid about taking pills. First Place --Gold Star on grounds that his discovery of an An attorney for the defendants ­Second Place ·· Silver Star insect inside the capsule made him Smith Kline Corp. and its sub­Third Place --Bronze Star paranoid about taking pills. sidiary, Menley and James Labora­Fourth Place --Purple Heart Patrick Foslien seeks $50,000 m tories · asked Judge Patrick Fitz­Fifth Place --Lollipop damages from the maker of Contac gerald to dismiss the case yester­Sixth Place --One jawbreaker in a Hennepin District Court suit. day on grounds that a person Seventh Place --Tootsie Roll His suit says he was about to take cannot claim damages for mental Eighth Place -· Piece of bubble one of the capsules in 1976 when he suffering unless some physical gum decided to open it and study it. disability also has been suffered. Ninth Place--One lifesaver (choice He found a hole in the side of the The judge took the motion under of flavor) capsule and atiny insect among the advisement.. 



Search Committee narrows its list 
by Tim Zweber's Roomate you to sleep, but you dream that 
Absurder Staff you have insomnia. 
"Sure, I am for Co-Ed dorms," 
Poindexter said. "If all the Ed's 
The Provost Search Committee want to live together, let 'em. As has narrowed its list to three long as they don't break parietals." possibilities. Auditions for the candidates 
One is "Sweet Polly Purebread" were held yesterday afternoon in a child cartoon star and an itinerant Washington Hall. Cries of "Let's administrator whose previous see some more legs" rose from the Notre Dame related jobs included lessnr dignitaries on the Search cutting the sexy pictures out of Committee as JoeOrangegrove back issues of Esquire in the leprachaun, performed his flag Library and teaching Adrian Dant­act. leyhow to say the word "sopho­Orangegrove suggested that as more." Provost he would invite the DePaul 
basketball team to an outing on the"She's got curves that Euclid 
15th floor of the Library. When never dreamed of," one official reminded that the Library dt>esn'tnoted. "But her IQ resembles that have a 15th floor, Orangegroveburst of low swamp life. At least out in uncontrollable laughter. 
everyone, with the possible excep­In a related story, two moretion of the Finance department, administration officials resignedwill feel safe knowing that they will yesterday. "This is getting justbe smarter than the provost." 
ridiculous, " noted Brother Just­A second possibility for the job of Passingthru. He added that theProvost is the Notre Dame Glee current administration is lookingClub. The SO-odd members of the everywhere, "under rocks andclub paced back and forth in unison paperweights" for new people.
yesterday morning as they ner­"We raided 'The Torch' thevously awaited their community other day and came up with threeshower. 
ampus quarantine
canrlidates for the Director of 
The Student Health Service announced yesterday that a portion of the campus has b~en
"We think we've got a shot at Housing Office," he added optim­
quarantined because of an outbreak of the bubonic plague. Students in the area designated above
the job," they said. "But we'll need istically. 
are warned that if they venture out into an unaffected area, they'll turn into frogs. 
more office space." Passingthru was seen yesterday 
•

The final possibility is Piondex­wandering aimlessly around cam­ter, another childhood cartoon star pus with a lamp in his hand who was the inventor of sleeping mumbling something about "look­
You be the staff reporter! 
pills for neurotics. The pill puts ing for an honest trustee." 
Do it yo111'8elf meeting story should exer-the proposals first." Absurder Staff cise caution to avoid -------The controversy arose when the 
---ag­, backed by the reed. "This is good for the , passed a ----,the resolution making and
Passingthru tells 
EDITORS NOTE: The reporter was -----,but more important--------. The proposal then unable to attend the ly, it is essential for the good of the had to be for meeting , so please 611 in this story campus.'' final approval, but was ----­for yo111'8elf. Concerning the proposed ----­instead.
everyone to bug off 
-----------, which met oppo­------------said he by Jack Pizzaonotalato While crushing a pencil in his sition at the -------meet­nows plans to scrap the proposal 
Absurder Staff teeth, Passingthru assured this The ing last week, ----entirely, and advocate total -.­reporter that there was no truth to unanimously voted last week to said "I feel the ----­-----------------, since the fact that he would be leaving support the in should approve the proposal, be­"no one really gives a 
Brother Just Passingthru. vil , Notre Dame to go work in Phoenix, its actions for the removal of--1 cause my mommy said so." He ~myway." president for Student Intrigues, AZ. "t#&?1/2 !/! = lfJ##!!! !, " from the Uni­also mentioned that several --­In other matters , the---­announced today that it is "no­Passingthru noted. versity campus, and heard ----and were in body's business" whether he is When asked, however, why he speak out a­need of such a------discussed planning to retire from the Univer­was wearing sunglasses, a somb­gainst -------aproposal -------Chairman -­sity at the end of May. rero, and Bermuda shorts, Passing­fur------------------noted, "I'd like ----and 
"I don't have to tell anybody, thru explained that he had acciden­"I think the is right to thank -------for ---------. They also passed anywhere what I'm doing , " Pass­tly left his other suit of clothes in in its efforts to abolish , adressing the ---tonight, but ingthru told an Absurder reporter his new cadillac convertable. ------said, noting that the I'd rather he would and gave---------­in a high voice while standin:;: on top of his office chair. 
"When I go, if I go, not ev<!fi the University will know about it," Passingthru further remarked. He 
High Court rules in favor ofSludge
indicated that Notre Dame Presi­dent Father Teddy Hesburgher had by Gregory Solman not have received such training had Washington politicians have set a discrepancy in rulings here. I amleft "little notes" under his door Absurder Staff he not been brought up in an area long standing precedent that I will properly pissed."
begging for some information on 
of the city with a People Bumping not challenge."
when Passingthru would be retir­Univac will begin working as a
The Supreme Court today ruled in Into Closed Doors rate of fifty per
ing. As a result of the ruling, Sludge carpenter's assistant next week for 
favor ofthe "Society for Prevention day?"
"I told Fr. Hesburgher that he will receive his job at NASA, his brother-in-law in Baltimore. 
of Job Discrimination by Brains," Today's decision reversed a fed­
can't believe every cruddy little replacing Mr. Jack Univac, a recent
in the now famous SPJDB versus eral appeals court ruling in New When asked why h'e wanted the
rumor that the Absurder prints MIT graduate with degrees in
the National Aeronautics and Space York, where Judge Igo Bothways job as a computer programmer in
about me," Passingthru recalled. Aerospace engineering and Com­
Administration, (NASA), case. had previously ruled, "I think we the first place, Sludge, who admit­
"But then again if I clear my desk puter Programming. 
The plantiff, Mr. "Turk" Sludge can justifiably discriminate against tedly has an alcohol problem, wasout and take a little walk one day; of the East Bronx, claims that he those without brains in cases where "Manifestly," commented Uni­quite incoherent. But he did men­well, who knows?" 
was unfairly discriminated against the national security is con­vac, who also picked up a minor tion an attraction to, as he put it, in his quest for a job as a NASA cerned." degree in Hegelian philosophy "them pretty lights on the panel computer programmer because, as Judge Long heartily refuted that while in school, "there appears to box, flickin' on and off, on and
Weird lectures 
he put it, "I ain't got no fancy­statement, saying, "years of be, if I might say so, a slight off.... " schmancy degree." Mr. Sludgein .Galvin Center ended his education voluntarily in 
the eighth grade. · 
Professor lam Weird of the Indiana The landmark decision means that University Chemistry Department intelligence can no longer be used will give a lecture entitled "The as a determining factor in job effects of xzyopermentosdemono­employment. Any employer must logoy on the Jufertoput of the now delete any reference to educa­Fingernails" tonight at 7 pm in the tion or intelligence on job forms, Galvin Life Science Center Audito­and must legally accept an "x" for 
rium. The public is invited and a signature on an application.
advised to bring plenty of beer. Justice Hugo Long commented, "I think there is increasing evid­ence, and many case studies have shown that intelligence is essential­
Varettoni seeks 
ly environmentally determined. In Mr. Sludge's case, can the courtemployment truly say that he would not have had an IQ above 52 had he been 
Bob Varettoni is looking for a raised by an intelligent family in job. Compantes must submit their upper suburbia?" resumes to him by April 15 in "Can this court justifiably give order to be considered as an credence to the defense's com­employer. plaint that the plaintiff has no 
The "Bob VarettoniSmoker" will training ii;t math, science, english be held tonight at 10 pm in the or any of the essentials?" Senior Bar.) ~erettoni will show up Long continued, "I don't see the late, and allow1 major oil company relevance in such complaint. I executives to buy beers for him. . . mean, who's to say that he might 

10 the observer April 1, 1978 
Ptooey eclipses longest mass record in Sa~cred Heart 
by Gregory Solman Absurder Staff 

It took hundreds of years of groomingJ Notre Dame priests for the task ... decades of preparation and training. And it took Father William Ptooey to make the dream a reality, which he did last Sunday, when he set the modern day record for the longest mass in history. 
It was a beautiful. crisp, cool, clear day within Sacred Heart Church last Sunday when a hearty and vociferous crowd showed up in force to watch Ptooey try to execute the mass in the slowest time yet st:en. With a heartstopping and rl'cord breaking three hour, thirty­five minute mass, Ptooey dev­a~tated the old record, set way back on Easter Sunday, 1773, by Pope Clement XIV at the Vatican. 
fension exploded into noisy cheering as Ptooey made his ap­pearance at the back of the church, nodding appreciatively to the crowd being fomented into a fervor by the sounds of the Notre Dame Fight Song being played resplend­ently on Sacred Heart's new organ. "This is one of the main reasons
•

we bought the organ," commented choir director and cheerleader Se­cond-Seeded Martin, who arranged the flowers brilliantly to slow down Ptooey's entrance into the church. 
After Father Ptooey had leisurely strolled to the foot of the altar, stopping along the way to shake hands with his adoring fans, Bro­ther Just Parcheesi, who was timing, Ptooey's opening "split" in a nearby pew, signaled to Ptooey that he was running too fast. 
"He was a full two minutes earlier than Hesburgher was in '73," commented a concerned Parcheesi, "and you know how that one ended up," Parcheesi started to break down in emotion, "I had to slow him down. We had trained so hard for this. We spent weeks on the homily alone!" 
Ptooey was still at a critically fast pace at the end of the Liturgy of the Mass, but bravely, he went straight on into the Liturgy of the Eucharist. Ptooey came back in all of his ecclesiastical glory, however, dur­ing the consecration of the euchar­·t~t. He was running a full four and one half minutes ahead of the Pope's record when he got to the 
phrase,  "do  this  in  memory  of  
me."  
All  breaths  were  collectively  

taken in when Ptooey lifted the chalice aloft, arms stretched way above his head. Minutes passed. Rivulets of sweat cut paths in Ptooey's brow. After five minutes, the crowd broke out into applause and cheering. By ten minutes, the crowd was on its feet, cheering on 
the brave priest, the strain uf 
holding the chalice now showing in 
his pain-racked face. 

Fifteen minutes later the chalice 
came down. The crowd responded 
with tumultous applause--a displaty 
of chalice raising not seen since the 
days of Johnnie Zahm. Flashbulbs 
began to pop all over the church, 
resplendantly reflecting off the 
stain glass windows. It was evident 
that there was no stopping Ptooey 
now. 

"That"s where the weightlifting really came in handy," reflected the proud coach Robert Griffer, who, in his prime days, could spin out a nastily long sermon himself, "who could complain ahout the nautilus now?" 
''I knew--and Dahby knew,'' com­mented Griff, "That there was only one critical stage left. The handing back of the water and wine bottles. Had Ptooey dropped either one-­disqualification.'' 
Yes, the dreaded handoff. bring­ing back memories of Father Gonyers on Easter Sunday in 1972, Hesburghefon the Feast of the Immaculate Conception in 1964 and Badin on the second Sunday of Advent in 1864. Would Ptooey follow in their fumbling footsteps?' 
But the handoff went smoothly, as Ptooey took it behind his back with the precision of a sprinter receiving a baton in a relay. Having seen the critical stage pass, the crowd settled back, and braced them·· selves for the finish. 
Adoring fans now surged toward the altar awaiting the final blessing when they would explode tradition­ally onto the altar area to pry souvenir pieces from the Bernini Altar. 
The crowd got so boisterous and large, that WSND's Wally Robin­son was forced by the madding crowd, to the top of Father Zahm's crypt to see the action for his radio audience. 
''Ptooey looks in tremendous form today," he cried, hoarse from the excitement, "and these perky post­pascal pew people are really enjoy­ing this mass' execution." 
There were, as always, skeptics in the crowd. Father Tom Bland, who had researched the event for the Notre Dame archives, commented on the breaking of the old papal record. "There are advantages that Ptooey had that we must take into consideration. Besides the fact that he has had modern training methods, you have to remember that in the days of Clement XIV, the robes were heavier and hotter, bad for an endurance mass of this nature. Plus, where as Ptooey's record was timed with a Deluxe Gruen Stopwatch, Clement's re­cord was timed with a sand dial." 
Dug-A-Coal-Mine dies from electrification 
by D.P. Hogan Department, who will explain the Absurder Staff electrical circuitry of refrigerators, while the chorus "mater 
A graveside service for John Dolorosa" in the background ..•-Dug-A-Coal-Mine, President of Saint Mary's College, will be held Dug-A-Coal-Mine Is survived by
in the courtyard of Le Mans today his family, Merry Rock-the-Boat, at 1 p.m. after a campus-wide Sr. Madeleva III (whose feast day, luncheon presided over by Charfes April 1st, happens to coincide with 
A. Flim-Flam. The menu, ac-the service) and the entire SMC cording to Aim~Aam, will be community. appropriately sorrowful, the main· ceurse dubbed "Hank's Surprise" 
Dug-A-Coal-Mine's untimely M h" t h ld 
death occurred yesterday in his asoc I$ s 0 
home when he decided to plug in Happy HOUr his refrigerator, since the too year coal strike had finally ended. The Notre Dame Masochistic Unfortunately, when Dug-A-Coal-Society will hold a happy hour Mine chose to reconnect the power, today at the Memorial Library, his house happened to be flooded from 6 pm to 5:30am. All members from melting snow mounds (resi-are instructed to bring calculators due of the Blizzard of '78). Dug-A-and slide rules. Whips and chains Coal-Mine was instantly electri-will be provided for advanced 
fled. members. . . . . 
• The eulogy ~III be gtven by Pr~. On seectal. ~ill. ~e tl!re~ _bloody 
"But, let's face it," admitted Bland, pointing to Co.ach Griffer, '"He won for the old Griffer. And besides ... there are modern pro­blems that Ptooey had to en­counter. For instance, today's hosts are much lighter and easier to distribute ... that can speed up a mass tremendously, and ruin a good time." 
"And then there's the change from Latin to English," concluded Father Bland, "Which is a dis­advantage to Ptooey. You see, the old priests could add portions in latin, thus extending the mass, and only other priests would know the difference." 
'"In all," concluded Bland. '"It was an adequate performance. But it won't be long before it's bro­ken 
Father Ptooey, basking in his win, 
had something to say about that. 
··well, l felt really good today, there's no doubt about that. I worked tremendously hard toward this point in the season, and I knew after the passing of the wine bottle that I had it all wrapped up." 
·'If the records broken it's bro­ken," said Ptooey methodically, "I'm just glad that I was given the talent and the chance to compete.'' 


Crowded Bars? Recently The Absurder followed up complaints voiced by several students concerning overcrowding in bars near campus. When a photographer visited one establishment incognito he stopped this action on a crowded dance floor immediately after beer had been poured down the pants of both of the dancers. 
~ J .J. Bernoulh, of the SMC Phvstcs~ 1 marvs' '*lt'h 'cto'~H.;.-;r i.i<~oi.",{, 'r..,:.'~'t' ·-,{( 'al~l'~a,o: fa,..l:1;t.;: •. :u•. •If.> I .. ' .. • ......nJ;..,; "CDA . ' . . . .. f::;;.t:;,n ~1..:.. 
Dom Headsman 
Surgery 
Six-Pinter 

·f~JCl you thought you were through with reading this boring pre-game column which really said nothing about upcoming Notre Dame athletic contests. Well. you were wrong. Just because there are no important games on the horizon doesn't mena I can't churn out some jock jibberish about Notre Dame games and players of the recent past. 
The first game I'd like to mutter about is Notre Dame's loss to Duke (I bet you never thought anyone from Sports Information would ever bring up a game in which we actually lost.) Everyone knows that we (Ooops....I forgot I'm supposed to be objective) should have won that game; unfortunately. Coach Dugger Filps took a vacation in the first half of the game. He just sat there on the bench soaking inthe fact that he had finally reached the Final Four while the Blue Devils (that's Duke's nickname in case you didn't know) raced to a big lead. When Dugger woke from his first half dream he found himself 14 points down. Dugger did a fair job of getting the team psyched for the final stanza (hey, I'm getting almost literate in my old age) but he stayed with two of h is starters too long. Colli Thepuker. a normally poised frosh, lost most of his cool during this game and he was not very effective. Maybe he has been spending too much time with his cheerleader friend, you know, Bucky Beaver. After all, his shooting percentage has fallen below the 60 percent mark once this relation flourished. The other starter, Dave "The Twirler" Baton, wasn't very effective either. But his performance was at least excusable, Duke coach Foste Lager told his troops to stop Baton even if it meant breaking the rules. Great strategy, huh. 
The, second game I would like to talk about is the only loss which our national champion football team suffered last season. Mississippi really was not as good a team as they showed on that sweltering Saturday afternoon> in Jackson. Ifthey had been then their Coach Darn Stupid never would have lost his j?b at the end of the season. How did our (Ooops ... I did it again) superteam ever lose to this group of stiffs? Coach Hank Heavenly commented, "Well, er. I just think that our boys gave their best." Not one to give ex..: uses. Heavenly continued, "But the thing which really beat us was the heat." Well, next year maybe we should only play games north of the Mason-Dixon line. 
Finally. I would like to present some well deserved awards to certain basketball personalities. Here they are: Best defensive position on a basketball court-Doug "Dirt" Williamson. Williamson invented thenow famous" Look Out" defense in his freshman year and has proceeded to develop many variations of it. His ~ost recent nuance of this defense is entitled "Ole" and has Williamson doing his impression of a Spamsh Bullfighter on the hardcourt. He performed this defense frequently during any game when he faced a relatively quick opponent. This Washington D.C. native will long rembered for his defensiv prowess. 
Best mime job on ~ basketball court -Dugger Filps. Never one to criticize his players during the co~rs~ of a game, Flips never says a word. One of his players Butcher Fleuers says, "I just love brmgmg my parents to our games because even when I make a mistak<! I stay in the game and Filps never yells at me. The fact that he never yells has built my confidence tremendously." Fewest appearances at Clnabar's during the season -Jacksonville "Tea" Bullridge. Never on the discos premises during the off-season, this good ole southern boy always hits the sack early before home games. 
F_e~est appearances at Corby's -Dill 'Blackshoes' Lamebrain. He is another class-going, bar avotdmg basketball player. A great example for serious-minded stud<:nts Well those are just a few of my thoughts on the subject of Notre Dame sports of the past; next year should be even better. 
Intruder steals securl•ty car 
The bed is next to the door, under encounter with Security, Shoo[continued from page 7] the window." laughed heartily and added, "I'mdirect tie-in." 
Upon learning of the girl's glad she didn't make it to the
Shoo who had been sleeping said he was aroused around 4':30 a.m. when he felt a hand massaging him 

Key named best body
under the blankets." He said that 

he was incoherent from sleep, but he soon discovered that both his P.J. Bustle, HPC Chairman, hands were behind his head. He fainted last night while addressing looked up in time to see a figure the Hall Presidents, after learning leaving his room. "I saw her leave, from Executive Coordinator Tasty but I never got a good look at her," Key that a recent poll showed that Shoo said. "I only know she was the HPC was no longer "the most wearing a big winter coat and had representative body at Notre dark hair. She did have a big ass, Dame." Instead, the poll showed though." Shoo's description was that 97 percent of the Notre Dame of little use to Security. community felt that Tasty Key was Security believes the intruder the most representative body on must have been in the dorm on a campus. Key, taking over for the previous occasion, "Obviously the stricken Bustle, also announced 
HPC for wasting precious wood resources due to Bustle's weekly deluge of handouts. 
In the final order of busyness, Aunt Ostal Chairman, John Loonie, '12, announced that Tasty would open up the Rainy Thursday festiv­ities by being in the dunking booth clad only in a small Aunt Ostal T-shirt. Loonie pointed out that 
this decision was part of his goal to make Aunt Ostal "bigger and better this ear." 
' .•.• ' .Y.. . . v ..~ .•• ••· J 

~.....__,.4_ ...,,-~_q·.s..;.C.'Io-.r....,.,.,.~f·1·"'cc-~~~~·41(')t~:11:,~"1VJ.Itt.'•."'.!h.•.~ • ..,~11: ....--ftJ!I~,:JP>'t;:.~--.........,.,....,...~ ...r-':f':ft""fT"f"f'"T:r..-w; 
-------~-~--~---------­
Letters to a Lonely God 
The Skeleton in the Family Closet 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
My brother and I have never been very close. mostly because he is many years older than I. and we have never shared the same interests or the same friends .. Most p~trticularly, we have never sharer! ~ne san~ religion. I am a creature entr!lm­meled by the rituals and creeds of an ecclesiastical establishment. My brother may believe every word or phrase written on the pages of the New Testament. or he may find the Gospel as truthless as the graffiti scratched on a subway wall; he has never told me whether he has a faith. I asked him once: "Do you believe in God?" He answered simply: "Doesn't every­one?" The God he believes in may be Buddha. for all I know, or he may burn daily incense in honor of Thor· and Woden. I have never known him to go to church even once in his life; and though he's polite and supportive towards my involvement in the ordained life. I've always felt that he keeps a chuckle in reserve if he should ever catch me solemnly posturing in the poses of piety. I love my brother. and I know he loves me. but I don't talk to him about God. not because I'm afraid of embarrassing him. but of embarrassing myself. I couldn't bear his judging me to be a fool or a hypocrite. 
When I saw my brother last August. he was old and sick. sitting helpless in a wheel chair. partially paralyzed by a recent stroke. He lives in a hospital. because he has no one to look after him. In our conversation. he was more worried about our sister. our mother and me than he was about himself. Neither of us mentioned his stroke and paralysis; we avoided the subject of my brother's illness as carefullly as we had always avoided a discussion of the practices of religious faith. All our words were loving words. befitting bro­thers who care deeply about each other. But there are topics. it seems. too sensitive to talk about with people you love the most. 
I haven't seen my brother since last summer, but occasional notes come in the mail. written on his behalf by some nurse's aide. The poor child, whoever she may be. certainly tries hard. but she sounds like a second grade child writing to an African missionary: "How are things doing there? Do you attend the football games at your school? I hear it is quite a team out there." 
Such a note came a couple of days ago. with one line in it I haven't been able to ·get out of my mind. "I am going to church every Sunday now." the note said; "I hope you will pray for me.". 
"Oh God. my brother," I think. "what are they doing to you? Going to church every Sunday? Hoping I will pray for you? I-'ve prayed for you every day of your life for the past thirty years. But do you really ask for me to pray. or are these just the sunny words of a junior nurse trying to be helpful? Do they take you to church because you are helpless to say no. or have you found faith that makes you feel the God's arms. God will give him all the shelter he needs, but I don't want some preacher· trying to shove my brother into Heaven on the strength of promises made to the Second Corinthians, according to the preacher's reading of the Word of God. 
In honesty. I don't know what's happen­ing with my brother, before whom I was always too shy to mention the Lord's name. 
But there are proclamations of the Gospel in styles I have found vulgar. and I am enough like my brother to suspect he would find them vulgar too. My brother and I have never shared faith. but I am convinced we have shared doubts. though we have never discussed that dark side of the creed any more than we have discussed conversions. I wouldn't call the Pope, whom I believe in. to attend to my brother, because my brother might consider the Pope also to be quite vulgar in his spiritual pretensions.. I hope no one else would have the nerve to call in the likes of Oral Roberts. whom most ofthe world considers vulgar and a member of a vulgar tribe. I the grave, and the living earth and the living God make a feast day of springtime. Christ is not a life belonging only to Catholics; He is not a secret whose name has been mentioned exclusively to the ordained and younger brother. The younger brother. seeing that the fatted calf has been slain, can make a fool of himself in his self-esteem. The elder brother has blessings more important than a feast. "'My boy,' said the father in the parable, 'you are always with me. and everything I have is yours."' 

For many years in my lifetime, God has been a skeleton kept in the family closet. This Easter, it seems, God is out of the closet; He may have been out of the closet for quite some time. He was always too big for the closet anyway. The closet couldn't hold Him any more than the grave could hold Him. Nobody opened the door for God; nobody needed to. All you haye to do for God is to wait for the third day. 
My brother. I wish you happy Easter, not only in this springtime. but in whatever 
-----------------------springtimeyou did find. or will find, the April glory. When we were children, we kept Thanksgiving and Christmas as family
All ~ou haue to do for God 
feast days. Now that death has gone off with our father, and the rest of us are closer to dust than to birth. Easter must be kept as our family feast. So happy Easter, 
is to wait for the third day. 

beloved brother. Whether you are ready for it or not in your experience with God, I will break the silence of a lifetime and say
-----------------------happyEaster. 
need of formal worship?" 
I don't think God should be imposed upon anybody. I don't think anything is ~I' crude as unwanted religion. The Christian who wants to read you the Bible when you're sick can fill your mind with anger instead of grace. The faith-healers who are called in by well-intentioned friends to pray over a bed on which a man is dying can be more offensive than harlots soliciting for trade. I don't want my brother pushed into may be judged vulgar myslfin my ordained life. even by my brother. But can it be vulgar to believe it is the Shepherd who takes home the flock, since no one else knows for sure the places where the lambs get lost? 
Faith is easier at Easter than at any other time. Hillsides proclaim the resurrection. Robins sing the news of the earth come alive; the bobolink tells its joy to the orchard. Christ our hope has risen from 

Happy Easter, too, to your little nurse's aide. IfI am not yet sharing faith with you, at least I appear to be sharing faith with her. because she seems to be telling me what she thinks I want to hea.r. 
Tell her also I love and admire you exactly as you are, whether you go to church every Sunday, or not. I'm not sure that all my Sundays of worship have ever brought me as close to God as you are close at this moment. 
Mayday in Black and White 
This Editor Needs People 
bryan gruley 

This is an urgent call to the Notre for the featurespage.you'll understand why and the ND-SMC campus should get its That means drawings, technical drawings Dame-Saint Mary's campus for people-­I need more people. chance to benefit from their words. I do ·(to accompany certain articles), cartoons, people who can write. people who can do First, I'd like to see more profiles of not intend to undermine The Juggler in any etc. I'd like to know if there are some newspaper layout. I want you to help me ND-SMC people. I like people. They can way. cartoonists on campus besides the few that make The Observer Features Page a better be a helluva lot more interesting than any I also would like to see some satire. have done work (much of it very good) for place to live. thing on this earth. from the Grand Canyon Satire is a rarity on this campus, seen but The Observer this year. 
Hello out there. Allow me to introduce to a moonrock in the Smithsonian Institu­periodically in cartoons and the occasional As far as subject material f?,OCS, 1see few mvself. I am the new Features Editor of tion. And we have here at Notre Dame a letter-to-the-editor. Almost never are restrictions. A good writer can do an The Observer. I am a junior majoring in great many people who are extraordinarily there articles openly dedicated to satirizing interesting article on almost 1111ythlng American Studies. I come from a big interesting--students. professors, admini­a person, an event, or a ·characteristic of happening around here. Too much goes township on the northwest side of Detroit. trators. etc. Many students would be ND-SMC campus life. Today's issue of ignored on this campus. often undeser-Michigan. where I sleep on the couch. and surprised to find that some of their most The Observer contains "The Absurder," vedly so. Also. too much isn't given do loving battle with two brothers. three serious and perhaps dullest professors which is a form of satire, but which appears anything more than straight, objective sisters. and a mother and father I can't have led quite interesting lives. · But only once a year. Satire could be, and news tre;.tment when it pleads for treat-quite figure out. At ND. I usually sleep interesting life experience isn't the only should be. a regular feature on this ment a bit more sensitive or thoughtful. and shower in Pangborn. way back on the thing that makes people extraordinary. page--certainty· this campus provides Finally, there is my need for people who south quad. and from there it is a nice walk Personality is also important, and certainly enough material for it. However, it will can do layout. I emphasize that you do DOt to The Observer offices on a clear spring the ND-SMC campus has its share of have to be used with discretion. The satire need es.perlence to become a layout worker evening. I make that walk quite a bit now. unique personalities. I'd like--and I would have to be clearly directed, so that for the features page. An anteater could because this page is my newest home. believe the readers would like--to see some our readers do not become confused about learn layout in four hours (though it took When I'm not in Detroit or Pangborn, I'm of those personalities captured in words on what is being satirized. Also. it mast be . me eight). And--you c~ make sonie living here. in a glass house. Since people the features page. well-documented. Because of its critical money on it. Not much, but a few extra are always peering in. I'd like to make for Another thing I'd like to see more of is nature. satire might touch some sensitive uollars for Friday happy hours, or perhaps 
them an interesting and entertaining sight. literary journalism. For those of you who nerve endings. Therefore, the author. for that new calculator you've been d)'fng That's why I'm officially declaring the aren't familiar with this, it is a form of should be ready to back up his satire with to buy (right?). It's true that layout can Features Page an "open hou.-P.." writing in which the author deals with a facts and a thorough knowledge of the sometimes be tedious, but on the other 
Everyone is invited. Please come. But real event or person, employing literary subject in question. hand it can also be challenging and don't just bring yourself. Bring things techniques in an attempt to get at Technical articles can also be used. interesting, a game. Plus, the working you've written, things you've drawn or something deeper than the basic objective Presently I have a writer doing a piece on atmosphere, !_s Jfl'eat--people who'll work photographed. Bring your skill and truth. It requires extensive reporting and a technical theatre. Other articles of this sort around you are fun and friendly. ingenuity for features layout. This pl~ce good imagination. Some attempts at would be both interesting and informative, Before I conclude, I want to emphasize has a lot of potential. It can be made into a literary journalism have been made on this as long as they avoided unnecessary detail that 1111yoae can write for the features great place to live. an even better place to page in the past (Frank Laurino's Midwest and depth that could confuse or bore the page--students, administrators, janitors, look into. But I need people to help me Blues piece; the Crosby, Stills and Nash reader. skydivers, bookworms, masked men, even make it into that kind of place. review). A few professional writers who In addition. I'd like to see an increase in rugby pllayers. I'd particularly like to see 
How does the features page look right have had success with the form are Tom the number of film reviews. Though South some professors contribute material to this now? The format is basically this: various Wolfe. Norman Mailer and Truman Bend doesn't offer a good selection of what page. In the past, this was common reviews, some coverage of campus events Capote. many would classify as "cultural" films, it practice. The fact is that I need and organizations, occasional human inte­Fiction and poetry should also be nevertheless brings in some of the more people--Imaginative and energetic people._ rest stories. That's okay, but more can be included on the features page. I realize "popular" films of the day. I've learned The features page should be something done. I'll get to that in a minute. First I that this perhaps encroaches on the from film classes that these outwardly everyone w1111ts to read, a place that is want to teii you what the features staff territory of The Juggler. However, I'm also simple, "popular" films often entail more entertaining, while at the same time a looks like. At present it consists of nine aware that The Juggler, due to insuffi­than they at first seem to, and could result place that offers unique personal iasights people; all nine write for the features page; cient funds, cannot publish all the fiction in some good, intelligent reviews. I know a into events, people, and issues that have two do layout, and two will be learning and poetry that is produced on this lot of people out there who'd have you been given only objective treatment mthe layout. Nine people are not enough to campus. I know for a fact that there are think they know a lot about film, but I don't past. If you're interested in helping me make the page the terrific place it can be: writersargund here itching to have some of see them doing reviews. I e11.::ourage make it just that-kind of place, contact me They may be enough to make a pretty good' their material published, but have hitherto ~hem now to put their thoughts into woras in P.dngborn or at The Observer offices i:l place. but like J said--more can be done. failed to get it in The Juggler. These and onto the features page. LaFortune. It's an "open house"--c't\lQII. 
perhaps when you see what I ~l\VC7 iJ:!..miiJd, , , w~ite~~.sttQ .ld,g(ft their,ch~nce ~o.b~ ~~~~q., , . ~~~.,too, cov~d Pf .f~~u~~.~-.~o~e ,o~e9·. Mi' in.,..•.,,,·,'·} ')l'i ~ ·Al , , i!l~w;r:!;~ '.l 

1.L.2'--~th!....!..31!8:._0:!IL!!Ib~st::'!le.r..!rv~eur______.:....F.:...:ri=da~v. March 31, 1978 
Closing of Swiss Firesf()ne plant arouses anger of Gene,,a workers, 
GENEVA* Switzerland [AP) ·A decision by Firestone, the Ohio­based tire manufacturer to close its factory in Switzerland has angered workers at.d aroused new charges that the dollar's weakness is hurt­ing the Swiss economy. 
'·Americans. are they canni­bals?" asked the newspaper Tri­bune of Lausanne yesterday in an editorial attacking the plan by Firestone Tire and Rubber Co. to shut down its tire plant employing 600 worker's at Pratteln, near Basel. Firestone took over the enterprise from Swiss control five years ago. 
About one-quarter of the town's 
12.000 residents turned out for a rally where union and government speakers inveighed against the closure and a poster was displayed saying: "Instead of faith and loyalty. all what we get from the 
U.S. is deceit and lying." 
Firestone announced the move last week-citing a need for "increased production efficien-
Jung Conference open:s in CCE 
[continued from page 5] speakers. A list of the experimen­tal activities is available at the CCE. The following is a schedule of activities for the remainder of the conference: 
Friday, March 31 1 p.m. -Experimental activities as scheduled. 
2:30 
p.m. -Speaker's Forum featuring: Kelsey, Hugh Lynn Cayce, Virginia Beach, FA; James 

J. 
Lynch, Maryland; Adolf Gug­genbuhl-Craig Zurish; and Crossen as chairman. CCE Auditorium. 


4:15 p.m. -Sympusium on Woman and psychology, Consturcting the Feminine From Female Sources. CCE Auditorium. Estella Lauter of 
Meeting for cheerleaders obligatory 
There will be a mandatory first clinic for those 'interested in trying out for the 1978-79 ND cheerlead­ing squad on Sunday at 1 p.m. in the ACC Pit. 
Tryouts for cheerleading and leprechaun positions will take place from April2 to 7. Tryouts are open to all. · 


cies"-along with planned shut­downs of plants at Akron, Ohio and Calgary, Canada. 
One month earlier. executives had reported foreign exchange losses of $11.9 million company­wide for the first quarter of 1978. 
The company said its unprofit­able operation in Switzerland was. partly due to the dramatic increase in value of the Swiss franc. As the franc advances, goods made in Switzerland become more expenstve abroad. Firestone said that was pricing its Swiss-produced tires out of foreign markets. 
But the Swiss charge that the United States has failed to act decisively to stem the dollar's steady fall. The Swiss franc has risen 102 percent against the dollar since 1975, to 1.88 francs in trading Thursday. 
The Swiss say because of this. the United States is responsible for the heavy demand for francs and for resulting harm to Swiss expor­ters. Firestone's monetarv expla­
the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay will chair the symposium. 7 p.m. -Experimental activities as scheduled. 
8 p.m. -The Creative Act and Healing with Dr. Edith Wallace; training analyst at the C.G. Jung Institute New York and editor of the journal Art Psychotherapy. 
Saturday, April 1 
b:30 a.m. Continuing the sympos­ium on Woman and Psychology. 11 a.m. • Healing and Cancer: The Image of Disease. Dr. 0. Carl Simonton, and Stephanie Mat­thews-Simonton, directors of the Cancer Counseling and Research Center. will bring their clinical experience and research to bear on the psychology of cancer. 4 p.m. -Experimental activities as scheduled. 
8 p.m. -Archetypal entertainment at the LaFortune Student Center. Students and faculty are invited to attend a Masqued Ball, featuring the group, Citizen's Band. All are invited to dress up as their favorite archetypal image. There will be prizes for the best costumes. 
Sunday, April 2 
9 a.m. -Experimental activities as Firestone Switzerland, said he found the Swiss criticism a ''bit unfair." and said Akron headquar­ters indicated it would be willing to discuss any proposal for keeping the Pratteln plant based on "eco­nomic realities." 
n:ttion  thus  fell  on  le-ss-than­ 
sympathetic ears.  
John R.  Thompson.  director of  

"That means, of course, that the Swiss company would have to break even," he said. 
Officials in Akron have said any discussion would be merely a courtesy to the Swiss. but the Swiss government sitll has named a high-level delegation to meet with Firestone headquarters executives next month. 
The government is concerned because the closure would be the most significant of an industrial plant in Switzerland since before 

world war n. and because layoffs ~~~.:!;l~J -~;;:;!..:,;:]lruiiiiiJ0111ffi'~M;~~
could increase the national unem­
ploument rate·-currently next to 11othing -by almost 10 percent. 
scheduled. 10 a.m.-Psychosis That Heals and 
by Dr. John Weir Perry, psy­chiatrist and Jungian analyst and one of the leading authorities on the psychosis. CCE Auditorium. 1:.30 p.m. -Closing remarks by Thomas Kapacinskas and other available speakers. 
Kapacinskas would also like to in\'ite students and faculty to attend the summer institute, en­titled ·'Archetypal Psychology: Therapy, Imagination, Philos-. ophy," which will be held at the CCE from June 11 to 23. Details on this summer conference are avail­able at the CCE this weekend or by contacting Kapacinskas. 

5:15p.m. Saturday Vigil •: Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9 :30 a.m. Sunday ·:Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. 
12:15 p.m. 



. . . 

ND SENIOR WOMEN 
Don't forget to pur<~hase Senior Women's Dinner Tickets for Wednesday April 5th by Monday April 3rd from your hall or OC representative. 
Ticket price $8.50 


Your college degree will get you started in life after college. Army ROTC will give you a head start while you're still in college. 
Army ROTC offers you manage­ment training. Leadership ex­perience. And a commission as an Army officer. Extra credentials 

TIE EUlY STilT 
Start Army ROTC during your freshman or soph­omore year with no obligation. You'll find a curriculum that's exciting and flexible enough to fit your class schedule and academic needs. 

STilT 
If you're a veteran or Junior ROTC graduate, then you're a jump ahead. You're already eligible to enter advanced ROTC. 

IISIC STilT 
If you're about to finish your sophomore year, apply now for our six-week summer Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Ky. You'll earn $450 and the opportunity to enter advanced ROTC next fall. 
For details. contAct: Major John J. Mac Neil

lRoom 2;;_;~;;;~c;;;:1 7332. ',.. 
E. 

that will set you apart in the job market. 
You'll also earn $2,500 during your two years in advanced ROTC and new career opportunities upon graduation as a leader in the active Army, Reserve or National Guard. 
Here's how to get started: 


Friday, March 31, 1978 the observer 13 
Carter retreats from funding new pet projects 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The Carter projects may overwhelm a prevtous The admtmstratton has made why don't the beneficiaries go out water policy while doing the bid­administration is retreating, under moral commitment to protect our "one concession after another on and build them themselves?" ding of western governors and political pressure, from pledges to environment," said Elvis J. Stahr, the water projects" to appease Kimball ~;~sked. water proponents on the Hill," 
reform the "pork barrel" system president of the National Audobon special interests, added John Bur­Interim Secretary Cecil Andrus Blackwelder said. for building water projects, a Society. dick, coordinator of the Coalition replied in a statement: ''Our critics ''The outcome is likely to be a coalitwn of major conservation ''The Carter administration is for Water Project Review. seem to be crying before they are water policy that affirms a business 
organizations charged yesterday. retreating from the promises it has Carter won praise from conser­hurt. My water policy recommen­as usual posture.'' ''Recent decisions within the made in the past," said Thomas L. vationists last year when he en­dations have not even gone to the There was no immediate com­administration lead us to believe Kimball, executive vice president gaged in a battle with Congress to president yet for his consid ment from the vice-president's the political pressures to fund pet of the National Wildlife Federation. stop further work on 30 federal eration." office. 
water projects. The projects were Mondale was described by Dr. 
described in what came to be Brent Blackwelder of the Environ­

Nation's coal strike causes known as the "Hit List." Carter mental Policy Center as working Lawyer's night 
said the projects were unwarranted ''to gut the heart of the water 

because of environmental, ec­policy reform.'' set for Monday
enormous electric bills 
onomic or other reasons. Nine Mondale has refused ''to mee1 The Notre Dame Pre-law SocietyWASHINGTON [ AP]-The predicted an overall increase of 25 projects ultimately were stopped by with conservaation leaders on the will hold its annual Lawyer's Night nation's coal stnke seemed a long percent in coal prices during the Congress. 

this Monday at 7 p.m. in Room 201 
way from Poolesville. Md.. until three-year miners' contract. The coalition accused Vice-Pres­Wang to discuss of the Law School.Nancy Post got her $794.61 electri­Ohio Edison estimates the new identWalter F. Mondale of fighting Guest speakers and their sub­ctty b11l for January and February. coal contract will raise the price it behind the scenes for special jects are: James Hall on patent
She was not alone in her sur­pays for coal at least $2 a ton more mterest groups and politicians. photos and prints law; Dave Keckley on public de­
by the end of the first year and And it said it has been told that
prise. And homeowners in a smany Sam Wang, a photographer and fense; Bob Rigney on government
$4.50 a ton more by the end of under a national water policy being 
as 12 states may soon find similar­printmaker from Clemson Univer­law; Tom Singer on tnal law) and
formulated, federal projects al­

tf not so drastic -surprises in their three years. A spokesman. Charles sity, will discuss his work during a Jeanne Swartz on in Ia\\
women utility btlls. Carter. said the Ohio utility now ready authorized by Congress will lecture this Monday, at 7:30 p.m. and public defense. 
pays $20 to $22 a ton. be exempt from stringent new
Another Poolesville resident. in the Notre Dame Art Gallery. Each attorney will speak approxi­
Areas likely to be most affected restrictions to protect the environ­
Paula Summers. had an $818 btll The talk is sponsored by the Art mately ten minutes. and a questton
by the price increases are Ohio, ment, even if construction has not
for the January-February period on Department and the gallery and is and answer period will follow the her three-bedroom all-electric fram lndtana. southern Michigan, yet started. free to the public. talks. 
western Pennsylvania. western In addition, it said, the Interior
home m the Washinton suburb. A native of Peiping, China, he The Pre-Law Society wtll sponsor
Maryland. and the coal producing Department plans to recommend
compared to $289 the previous two was educated in Hong Kong before a smoker at the Senior Bar after the 
areas ofVirginia,West Virginia. and that the projects be financed with
months. attending Augustana College of program from 9 p m. to midnight.
Kentucky. federal money loaned at 31/4 per­
Other residents of Poolesville Illinois and the University of Iowa. All guest speakers and law School
cent interest rate for bank loans is

and neighbormg towns m western He presently teaches photography faculty have been invited. Pre-Law Maryland. who also have all­Gift-Pax about 8 percent. and photo-silkscfeen in Clemson's Society members are encouraged
''If these projects are so good,

electric homes. also received bills architecture school. 
to attend. 
hundreds of dollars htgher than to be distributed they had expected. 
The plight of the Poolesville The Student Urtion Services restdents was unusual only in the Commission will distribute free amount of the total cost and the Student Gift-Pax to women ND/ speed m which it came. The SMC students this Monday. Department of Energy says utility The Gift-Pax are advertising companies m a dozen states ran samples donated to the Student short of coal to produce power and Union by Student Gift-Pax, Inc. were forced to buy more expensive The package, one to a student, will electricity. But utility spokesmen be available in the LaFortune mdtcate that consumers in several Ballroom from 12:45-3:30 p.m. 
Ftx* I jylf EIJOS states can expect their electric bill to be 15 to 20 percent higher per month over the next four to six Chess Club months. 
FWICW*YI&UI~ 

Joel Price of the brokerage firm a'harded. 
of Dean Wttter Reynolds Inc .. One tournament will be for compare our selection with any other record store!.! estimates the new contract plus a 6 beginmng players and the other for percent mflation rate will increase U.S. Chess Federation members. the cost of coal 10 percent to 13 For further mformation call 234­percent withtn the year. He 9648. 
Monday -Saturday: 10am-10pm Sunday: Noon -Spm 

..~~~1~0..W..~..... ~.................. 
SALE!
Tuesday April 4 W lngs 
Stadium, Kalamazoo 

Album Cover Mirrors $8.99 Tickets on sale now at River 
Tour T-shir1s $3.00 Ci Records. 


And even after coal production ts 
to hold tourneys
back to normal and the short-term charges are gone, electricity costs The Notre Dame Chess Club will in many states are expected to stay sponsor two tournaments on Satur­at a higher level because of day at 9 a.m. at the Century Center mcreased coal prices. Miners won tn down town south Bend. Mem­a hefty wage hike during their berships in the U.S. Chess Federa­recently ended 110-day walkout. tion and $250 in cash prizes will be 

QJ.()uls 
2,500 Budget-priced and Collector's Item Cut-Outs to Choose From! 

COMING MONDAY... 
NICKlES Cocltall hour!! Watch tor ad. 

1.._~4L.-___Jt.._h!l..:!eL-...31o~bi!IUIIs~eu.rv_._...eru._____~-F_r_i_d_ay~,_March 31, 1978 
Molinelli 
JUST THINK JWJ­JNational Steel announces hike

FoUF,T££N HOU/{5 1160 
PIT'fSBURGH [AP] -NationalYou WERE FAR AWAY Steel Corp., the nation's third PRoM HERE, IN TH£C()Mf08 la:rgest producer. yesterday an­
nounced a $5.50 per ton price

OF YOUR OWN P,oo/'1.. 
increase on its steel mill products

-1iti to recover the cost of the new soft coal contract. 
The price hike was announced the day after U.S. Steel Corp., the nation's largest producer. and Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp .. the ninth largest. announced in­cr•~ases of $10.50 a ton. 
"this increase is necessitated by th•e direct cost effect in the first year of the agreement recently concluded with the United Mine Workers." said National's chair­man. George A. Stinson. 
Stinson predicted there would be other indirect cost increases to the steel firm as a result of the national coal agreement. 
"Consequently. the increase in pr·ices announced today will leave N~.tional Steel with such other indirect costs to be dealt with in the future." Stinson said. 
"This price increase does not. in any way. address the problem of the extraordinary energy costs incurred during the coal strike which. if averaged for the year. could justify a much higher in crease,'' the corporation chariman added. 
The Carter Administration's Council on Wage and Price Stabil­

'Musical Liturgy'highli'ghted 
The Notre Dame Center for Pastor­al Liturgy will offer a training program on "Musical Liturgy" at the University this Sunday through April 7. 
According to John Barry Ryan. associate director of the center, the workshop is intended to meet the needs of parish musicians and will focus on clarification and 
1979 Sophomore literary Festival 
any freshmaedn 
interest .
1n apply1ng 
for chainnan or committee positions on the 
1979 Sophomoreliterary Festival Council 
should leave his/her name in the English Office 
(309 O'Stlag) by April 7. 
reflection on their ministry theolog­ical understanding. effective com­munication skills. and professional expertise. 
Resource people will include Fr. William Bauman. author of the popular Ministry of Music. who will consider the ministerial role of the church musician. John Gallen, the Center's director. Mark Searle. and 
Kathleen Hughes. will provide the 
theological and liturgical context. 
Gordon Myers will offer advice on 
"How to get along with the pastor. 
the parish team. the choir and the 
congregation." Pradicaf sessions 
on the role ef the cantor and 
musical skills will be led by Edward 
Throm and Merlin Yoder of the 
Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocesan 
Music Commission. Fr. Charles 
Conley will consider the latest 
musical resources and the Aquinal 
Book Shop will present materials_. 
The workshop will open m Sacred Heart Chapel with the celebration of Solemn Vespers and the inaugural dedicatory recital of the new Holtkamp organ by Michael Schneider of Cologne. German. Sunday. at 7:15 p.m. During the week. participants will observe organ practice and re­hearsal of the 60 member Notre Dame Choir. directed by Sue Seid-Martin. 
Registration is limited 30 partici­pants. For further information. contact the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy, P.0. Box 81. Notre 

ity has estimated the coal agree­most pressmg problem betore us, ment would increase steel produc­Stinson said. tion costs by about $4 dollars a ton "It is. therefore. all the more over the coal contract's three-year urgent that emphasis be placed at life. once on the improvement in pro­
The council termed the price hike ductivity in our coal mines. an by U.S. Steel and Whellin-Pitts­objective which the recent labor burgh inflationary and said it would settlement does very little to endanger the industry's recovery achieve." he said. from foreign competition. The new prices announced by all 
"We are in full agreement with three of the steel producers go into the views expressed by various effect Saturday. They apply to members of the administration in sheet steels. structural shapes. Washington that inflation is the plates, tin plate and tube products. 
Police hold suspects 
LOS ANGELES [API -An escaped Massachusetts convict and a Beverly Hills maintenance man were in police custody yesterday in connection with at least two of the so-called Hillside Strangler slay­ings. 
Police Chief Daryl Gates said the apprehension of George Francis Shamshak, 27. and Peter Mark Jones. 37, was a "major break in the case." He said Shamshak and Jones were being questioned in the strangulation deaths of Jill Bar comb and Kathleen Robinson. 
"We are very hopeful that it will .solve those two killings and maybe more." Gates said. He added that no formal charges in the Hillside 
Strangler  case  had  been  filed  
against either man.  
Shamshak.  who  escaped  from  

Walpole State Prison in Massachu­setts last October. was arrested by police in that state last week and was transferred to Los Angeles after he began to talk about the Barcomb and Robinson slayings. police said. 
"It is our firm belief that Mr. Shamshak has good knowledge of 

Mine workers remain idle 
[API-Most Indiana United Mine Workers remained idle yesterday as picket lines set up by striking mine construction workers kept Hoosier union mines closed. 
The construction workers are expected to vote Tuesday on the contract approved March 29 by the UMW bargaining council. 
Bruce Hensley. spokesman for Local 1851. the state's lone con­struction workers' local. promised earlier this week to keep all miners off the job until a contract was ratified. He said picketing con­tinued yesterday. 
Some miners returned to work Monday. but Hensley said by Wednesday picket lines had hault­ed production at 20 mines. includ­ing the state's largest coal com­panies -Amax. Peabody and Old Ben. 

Nazi film di:splayed today 
"Triumph of the Will." a Leni Riefanstahl produced documentary which sympathetically portrays the 1934 Nazi Party rally. will be shown today in the Library Auditorium at 
7:30 p.m. The film was awarded the German National Film Prize in 1935. 
The showing is sponsored by the History club. and admission is free. 
what occurred in these murders· 
Gates said. 
The chief said Shamshak had 
given Hillside Strangler Task Force 
detectives information about the 
Barcomb and Robinson slayings 
that only the detectives or the killer 
or kiJIIers could have known. 
Shamshak referred to Jones in 
his discussions with detectives. 
prompting an investigation of 
Jones. Gates said. Jones was taken 
into <:ustody Thursday afternoon at 
his Wilshire District apartment. 
Jane's 1966 Ford van was im pounded by police and inspected for clues. Gates said. and officers with search warrants planned to examine Jones' apartment last night. 
At various times during the course of the investigation. police have said a van may have been used in the Hillside Strangler slayings. 
In all. 13 young women. many of them nude and sexually molested and all of them strangled. have been found dead in hilly northeast suburbs of the city since last September. 
1978 -79 

R~H} 
Cheerleading
Tryouts 

Tryout'! will be held the week of April 2 -April 7. 
'"fhere is a MANDATORY first clinic ­learning session Sunday., 2 April at 1:OOpm in the ACC Pit ­
All Notre Dame -51. Mary's Students Interested in trying out for a cheerleader or leprechaun position MUST attend. 
Tryouts begin Monday, 3 April open to the public. 
Questions? Call 7308 
The Student Union Social Commission & Flanne'r Hall Invite You To; The Third Annual 
BULL MOOSE PARTY 

Sat April 1st (that's THIS Saturday) at the Jefferson lounge 8pm-2am price: 
$2.50 Ticket includes Transportation: Busses leave ever~v 10 minutes from Library Circle, Main Circle & Le Mans SIX HOURS of dance & music by Smith & Co. ALL the cold beer you can drink Cash bar & munchies will be sold 
Friday, March 31, 1978 ------,;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;:t:h!!e:;:o:::b=s;::a:!ry!!a!r;;;;;;o;;;;!;1~5~ 
Judge awards worker cash 
SANTA FE* N.M. [AP)-A judge said no decision had been made has awarded up to $75,000 to a Los about an appeal. 
Alamos Scientific Laboratory wor­The award came March 15 in an ker who claims he was disabled by o~al ruling at the end of a two-day a neurotic fear that radiation would tnal conducted before District kill him. Judge J.T. Hensley in Espanola. 
Attorneys on both sides of the Hensley ruled that Martinez was 
case involving Ramon Martinez, entitled to recover under the New 
57, of Espanola, said the ruling Mexico occupational disability and 
could have wide implications for disease law. 
the nuclear industry, because the The judgement orders the lab­
award was based solely on mental oratory and its insurance carrier to 
anxiety, not on any showing of pay Martinez $125 per week for 600 
actual physical harm. weeks -the maximum amount 
A spokesman for Los Alamos, allowed under the statute -and to 
the laboratory about 40 miles pick up the costs of any additional 
northwest of Santa Fe where the treatment for his "anxiety neur­
first atomic bomb was develooed. osis." 
N D profs stress ta I k 
Those chitchats by the office needs which he seeks to satlsty 
water fountain satisfy important through actions," they said. human needs and affect the morale "First, the physical need for food, of an organization, two Notre Dame shelter and other requisites to 
professors believe. survival must be satisfied. Then -Kenneth R. Thompson and Rob­follows the need for security and ert E. Pitts of the College of lack of fear." Business Administration con­tended that idle talk fulfills a need "Third, the individual has a need to self-actualize and in the long run for belongingness, for feeling part can also be beneficial to employers. of some group. Fourth, there is the 
Managers, they said, cannot view desire to gain recognition or self­
employees as an extension of a esteem. Finally, human beings machine, but must examine them want to self-actualize, to reach in terms of human values. their full potential as people and 
Restrictions on conversation, members of society," they contin­
ued.

they added, would lead to an 
oppressive climate that hinders the Thompsonand Pitts said it is very 
development of leader-subordinate easy for the businssman in his 
relationships necessary for an ef­· quest for efficiency to overlook 
fective business Orl@nization. other needs while concentrating on 
"Every individual has a set of pay and other henefits. 
Student Gouernment Cabinet Positions 
The 1978 -79 Student Gouernment is now taking applications for its cabinet and executiue aide positions, All those interested can pick up an application and a list of positions at the 
Student Gouernment Offices -2nd ~oor of LaFortune. 
All applications must be returned by Monday, April 3rd. 

YOU are invited 
to teach in the freshman Colloquium. 
Leading one of the discussion groups in the Senior-Freshman Colloquium is a rewarding personal experience and a valuable contribu­tion to life at Notre Dame. Fifteen juniors will be chosen now to lead groups next year. This is the only time you may enter the 
program.

Hyou are interested, come one of two meetings: 
4:30 or 6:30PM, Tuesday, 4 April Room 8 Freshman Year Learning Resource Center 
(Brownson Hall, behind Personnel Office ). 
If you can't make one of the meetings, call 7421 no later than Wednesday, April 5. It will NOT be possible to enter the program att~r Wednesday. 
"I think this is probably a Dr. Robert Hillman, a psychia­precedent setter nationally," said trist, testified that Martinez had a Santa Fe attorney Gene Gallegos, disabling anxiety neurosis caused who represented Martinez. "In by his occupational environment. our reserach we found nothing Walter Maez of the laboratory's exactly like this." legal liaison's office said the labor-
Martinez, who worked in a atory. the Department of Energy laboratory foundry for 30 years and the insurance company were shaping uranium 235 and 239 into considering whether to appeal devices ordered by scientists, had a number of physical ailments in-Bull Moose partyeluding liver and hearing pro­blems. Saturday
In 1976 doctors diagnosed cancer in his right eye and removed a The Student Union Social lesion. Gallegos said the doctors Commission and Flanner Hall will told. Martinez they took out the sponsor the Third Annual Bull entire cancerous growth. Moose Party this Saturday at the 
"They told him they got it all, Jefferson Lounge from 8 p.m. to 2but he wouldn't believe them," a.m. 
Gallegos said. "To him that was it. Tickets may be purchased at the He was convinced he was going to Dining Halls, the Student Union die of terminal cancer." ticket office, and inall residence Martinez had an excellent work halls. The price of the tickets record at the lab, Gallegos said, but includes refreshments, music by 
has not worked at all since 1976. He smith and Co.. and transportation. 
described Martinez as very nervous Buses will leave every ten minutes 
and susceptible to sever headaches from the Library circle, the main 
and said he doubted his client circle. and LeMans. All patrons 
would be able to hold another job. must ride buses. 
CBs catch speeders, too ... 
INDIANAPOUS [AP) p There were chuckles and calls of "10-4 good buddy" yesterday when Gov. Otis R. Bowen proposed a new way of enforcing the 55-mile per hour speed limit. 
Bowen, taping a segment of WTIV's copyrighted Report from the Statehouse, said it disturbs him that many motorists purchase citi· zen band radios so they can avoid police speed traps while exceeding the 55-mile per hour limit. 
Instead of using the radios to alert one another to police cars on the highways, why couldn't motor­ist us'e their radios to call state police when they spot a speeder and turn in the violator's lecense plate number, Bowen asked. 
"It would be a real service to their fellow man," the govern01 said. 
One reporter, who acknowledged that he uses a radio to avoid speed traps, had a counter suggestion after the taping. Why didn't Bowen buy a radio for his own car and join in the club. 
r-------------------------,
i 
1 Morri:s:~~::~ Fund 
I 
I May grads are no longer eligible forI loans. The last day for all others to applyis April 4th. No exceptions 
Morrissey Loan 

I 
I Student loans-$20-$150. Due in 30 days. 1V2 monthly interest. M-F 11:15-12:15. LaFortune Basement. 
I Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call 1 287-5162. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? ExecutaryI Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM
I Correcting S~l~ftr2ic3s2.089$8.8?.veher page mlmmum. a -en you
I 
want the Best" I Attention Logan Volunteers: The trip to 
~~~~i.el~u~~~ i;n~it~;;:~~~~i~~~i~a~ 
I 
I provided-We need volunteers. so bring a friend. See you Saturday! Questions? 
Call Jeanne 284-4391 or Art 287-7509. 
I 
FOR RENT
I 

I Finw houses in good neighborhoods (Portage and Angela area) Reasonable F
I 
rents. or 4-5 or 6 students. Contact
·Joseph Gatto 234-6688. 
I Furnished, entirely carpeted 4-bedroom 
I house. $80 per person. Gas and electric not included. 438 Harrison, 1block south I of Julio's on LWW. Call 288-7894. 
I 5 and 6 bedroom furnished houses for rent, summer and fall. Walking distance I to campus. Nice. Call 232-3815 after I 5'00 
· · 
LOST AND FGUND

I LOST: T.l. SR5tJ calculator. lost weekI before Spring break. Please call 7801 if 
I 
~und. 
I LOST: Class ring between guard house and Alumni before break. Reward call 
I Dave 1582. . LOST:0rangesk1 g 1oves in green sectionI at Bengal Bouts. Call Dave 1582. 
I LOST: 1grey suit-pack containing suit, 1 I 
pr. slacks, 1 pr dress shoes. and 7 silk shirts. Left in c-1 lot on Tuesday I afternoon. Please call John at 3807. 
PLEAS P
I 
E HEL . One British wool tweed cap with SIJap front was left in 127 Nieuland orf Tuesday Morning. Please
I call if you have any info. Has great 
I sentimental value. Scott 7816. FOU 
I 
ND: One gold earring for non-pierc­ed ear...between archi. building and 
Sorin before break. Call1161. 
I 
I FOUND: Set of 2 keys found before break. Call Observer office to identify. 
I 
I 
LOST: 1 Texas Instrument SR-11 calcula­tor in or near LaFortune on the Wednes­day before spring break. Reward offered. .Call 233-7213. 
I 
I LOST: Cross pen/pencil set before break. Sentimental value. Reward. Please Call John Murphy 289-8643. 
CL.assiFiett-i 
WANTED 
Summer Jobs -Try something different this summer. Leadership training at Quantico, Va. Free transportation and 
pay of over $700. for six weeks. See the Marine OfficerSelection Team in La Fortune March 29-31 9am-4pm. · 
Will trade 2center section bleacher seats to Jackson Browne and$$$ for 2 padded 
seats. Ken 8266. 
"TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS 
, Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 
~~~~~e~5i~~~~icf~re;~~~ co~. ~.0 ~f~~~~ 
W.T.S.* 8401 Connecticut Avenue. Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
Wanted weekend householder for half­way house. Small salary pi us room and meals. Overnight stay required.
Excellent esperience for persons inter­ested in mental health field. For further information call2341049. 
Need tutors in basic English and Basic 
Math. Available between 8:30-4:30 'Monday thru Friday. Hourly pay. Call 
for interview appoint11ent -ProjectEFFECT I USB, 237-4-'191. 
~upplied, immediate Income Guaran­tr3d!!! Rush Stamped Addressed Envel­ope: Homeworker, 2909-4DE Pinetree, Hernando, MS 38632. 
$100 week Mailing circulars!!! Materials 
FOR SALE 
Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football UCLA* Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated material at alow price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Classic Ovation guitar with hard shell ovation case in absolute perfect condl­tlon. Must play to fully appreciate, call 
Gene 1694. 
Aria s-string banjo Excellent condition Call John at 1694. 
PERSONALS 
Congratulations Goober! Maybe when the women are champs it'll be on the back page. 
· 
To the girls on the 4th floor of Lewis,
Who've sent such sweet limericks to us-
Here's your moment to savor, we're 
returning the favor, but it takes more
th t 1 L J d
an poems owoo us. ove, ammer an 
Deal. 
-Di-llo-n-Ha-p-py-B-irt-h-da_y_H_a_p-py-H-ou-r-in honor of Larry, Claude and Peggy Ann Library 3 to 6 Friday. 
Sensuous Ears -Yours as long as you
want me. -Lover. 

Ans 1 
I
I I 
Joe, 
1 

Try for quadraphonic next time ! ! ! 
p.s. wear a high collar. I 
Dearest Cubby, I Happy April 1st one day early. Thanks for a beautiful 365 days. Much love. T. I 
Congratulations Burr-head. You'll make I a terriffic RA. Robin 
Kevin, Larr & Bill, 
I 

May your 21st's be the best I. Love and I Kisses, Barbara and Nancy. 
I 

Df;~n~;ncr~r the great weekend at I Syracuse U. Love, Dan 
p.s. Tell Audrey I said hi. I If at first you don't squeeze_ try try try .agairt. I 
one great squeeze deserves another and 1 another... -----------1 
squeezo your own Beaux arts ball 
Apn'l Fools day Celebration Saturday I
April 1, 

1978 Seniors~s;;;;-;;-gr;d~tion ann-ou;c-e-1 ment to Jimmy Carter, 1600 Pennsylvania 1 
Ave. Washington D.C. 20500 
Typing Done I reasonable Rates 1 CaiiiiOIIJi ­
I

Free to a good home: 2 puppies (collie and boxer mix) (hmmm ..) Call 272-2520 1 after 3 pm.
-H-._.....__________ , a1rcuts, trims styles -cheap. SMC
4530 

Betsy • I Happy Birthday Bill. Love, Rose. 
I 

Peg. Recital Piano luck Love, Roomies 
I 

ANNOUNCEMENT: The 22nd celebrat-1 ion of the birth of William J. McMannus I will occur Saturday the first day of April in the yearl of our Lord. 1978. I 
all unite in birthday greetings. 
There are those who are sailors and those I who wish they were. For all of the above I there is a sailing club party Saturday
April 1st at Guiseppes 8-? Corner of I LaSalle and st. Louis 
~urnished Apt. All private. 3 rooms up I tor married grad student. All utilities, I near memorial hospital. No rent for 
_nelping 2people in wheelchairs.232-9128l 
Manse, It's amazing we are still friends. I L t' k ·t th t y • th be t
1

e s eep a way. ou re e s
buddy in the world. Ninks I 
AH~p~yR1h Annie, You're getting to be 1 
an.old lady. 
1 
MJC I

Bust hi 25 $9 h 
·or re passenger-per our. 20 A'lile limit. Rob 8922/8769. 
I 

16 the observer Friday, March J"1l, 1978 
Irish golfers ready tote~ offjn '78 
Bob Hennekes the indoor driving range for prac­super adjuster." Sports Writer tice and swing correction. O'SuiJivan feels his golfers have 
Event though the Irish had not the qualities of being "super Spring at Notre Dame means played outside prior to the Miami adjusters", to combat the unpre­different things to different people. Invitational. they were able to dictable weather of the midwest. 
For eight Notre Dame men and an finish 15th out of 26 teams. the 1977-78 Notre Dame Golf enthusiastic coach, spring means O'Sullivan, however, was not dis­Team, comprised both of youth and the opening of the Notre Dame appointed with his team's 15th experience, features these type spring golf season. Returning from place finish. He explained that golfers. an excellent fall season, the 1977-"we felt no confidence was lost. In Captain of the squad for the 78 Notre Dame Golf Team has fact. it gave us a little boost second consecutive year, senior anxiously awaited the start of the realizing that we did pretty de­Rich Knee is the first of an "second season." cently without any outdoor prepar­impressive brother combination. 
Head coach, Noel O'Sullivan. in ation." Rich is a three year mongram his fifth year as Irish mentor, has An added boost was given when, winner, and this past summer he been preparing the Irish squad for on the last day of the invitational, finished runner-up in the Delaware the upcoming midwest invitational the Notre Dame team finished 7th Open, as the tourney's low circuit. The Irish golfers have out of the 26. With a team scort~ of amateur. The second of the Knee recently returned from a nine day 305, the Irish were on!y 12 stroJ(es brothers, Dave is a sophomore. spring trip to Florida. where they out of first place. The toughness of Dave is the reigning Notre Dame competed in the Miami Invitational the Florida tournament should Open Champion. This year the format for the annual prove helpful as O'Sullivan stated, junior Tim Saurs, a two year tournament was slightly different. "we liked the challenge and we monogram winner, paced the Irish The nine day event was played on thought that it gave us a better in the fall with a 75.8 stroke four challenging courses, giving feelin.~ coming back to the Mid­average, and also lead the Irish last the Notre Dame players the chdnce west. spring. Last summer Tim won an to test more than one of the tough Spring collegiate golf at No1:re "outstanding award" as the best Florida courses. Dame is not like country club golf. junior in Chicago. 
Because the Irish could not O'Sullivan pointed out that "mid­John Lundgren, a sophmore practice outdoors(no thanks to the west play is not like summer play. from Minnesota, also had an Blizzard of '78), they had to rely on We are guaranteed inclement: excellent fall. He holds the indoor preparation for the Florida weather conditions. and so we have distinction of not shooting an 80 or trip. During the winter, Coach to psychologically prepared for above this year. John also had the O'Sullivan analyzed the dormant that. Our players cannot be like a best Irish average on the recent Irish swings and sent the Irish to country club player. He has to be a Florida trip. Tom Desmond:=:=:=:=:::::::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:::::::::::::::::::=:=:=::-:::-=-=·=:=·:-:::::·=:=:::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=::::,: Rounding out the top six are two 
freshmen, Tom McCarthy and Tim 
,.;_;.. 

Sachek. Tom is the current Wisconsin state junior champion, A t~ip to Florid~ helped to prep~re the golf team form the upcoming
Digger's gravy 
while Tim reigns as the South Bend sprmg season, 1f the weather will ever allow it to come. _City Golf Champion. Both fresh­
·-:-:-:~:~:-:::::::::::::~::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::: Six-pointer~; ~~~e:!ongan~it~ivai~~~~t:!. !!~ Intercollegiate will be played at NCAA tournament. In order to do "Everything else is gravy." That is what a jubilant Digger Phelps said playing well and should help the Purdue University. where the this O'Sullivan noted that "we after his Irish had crushed DePaul and in so doing earned Notre Dame's Irish. This very young. but Notre Dame golfers will take on the have to have outstandingly high first trip to thl'-final four, ending twenty-odd years of frustration for the experienced group of golfers have grueling task of playing 72 holes of finishes." His outlook is optimistic basketball program. If one looks merely at the won-lost records in St. high expectations for their spring golf in two days. and if the golfers perform well. the Louis then there was little gravy to be had for Digger and his gang last schedule. After competing on the rigorous Irish could easily represent the 4th weekend. The Irish dropped both of,their contests, but as AI McGuire The Irish schedule this spring invitational circuit. O'Sullivan district when tournament time pointed out, so did John Wooden when he made his first trek to the final features four dual meets. leading hopes to take his squad to the comes around. four. In retrospect, there will be a lot of gravy made from the juices thatt up to six major invitationals. Based flowed in St. Louis. on previous high finishes. the Irish That gravy will cook from now until the collegiate basketball world has golfers have been invited to major ND tracksters hit the road its shoot out in Salt Lake City a year from now. The benefits of the trip to tournaments which will include While the Fighting Irish Basket-grams from all over the east and St. Louis will be reaped in the maturity garnered by all those players who competition from the Big 10 and ball team visited smoky St. Louis. midwest." explained . Irish Coach experienced the pressures and tensions that accompany the trip to thoe Mid-American Conferences. plus their counterparts on the track .Joe Piane. ''I have to admit that I "promised land." Tracy .Jackson's performance down the wire in both major independents. spent the weekend in warm was really pleased wtth our squad's contests whets one's appetite for next year. Bill Hanzlik's coming of age One of the highlights of this weather where they finished a performance on the whole." with his clutch defense and scoring will become more and more apparent spring's golf season is theNorthern respectable seventh in a field of This Saturday. April 1. the track next year. Rich Branning's disciplined control in the waning moments on Intercollegiate Invitational. which tifteen teams at the University of team will travel to Champaign. Saturday caused one to think twice about his being "only a sophomore" Coach O'Sullivan calls "the most Alabama Invitational Meet. Illinois for a triangular-meet with with two more shots at it. Bruce Flowers and Bill Laimbeer demonstrated prestigious tournament. because "The Alabama Invitational is the University of Illinois. and the their abilities and served warning that next year will be one of all teams with any prominence will great because it allows us to Chicago Track Club. Coach Piane consistency. b~ there." The tough Northern compete against strong track pro-is looking forward to the meet Kelly Tripucka suffered from a dramatic turnaround in his shooting .------------------------------• because it is non-scoring and that touch during the battles in St. Louis but such a disappointing will. according to Piane. "give us a performance is not without precedent. Adrian Dantley had scored two chanct. to run guys in different points in the loss to Michigan that eliminated his team from NCAA play events in order to give them during his freshman campaign. A night-and-day change similar to that -experience." which Tripucka was forced to endure. If you're a Notre Dame basketball "The University of Illinois has a fan you can't help but draw the comparision in remembering how A.D. very good program." Piane com-played after that fateful experience. "Wait until next year" is a loser's mented. "They are really solid in remark. For the Irish basketball loyal. the theme must be "can't wait all areas. That's why they were until next year." fast year's Big 10 Outdoor Champs. 
Speaking of next year, the football irish will begin the preparations for their National Title defense when spring drills open next Wednesday. Keys to the April practice sessions will be finding the personnel to fill in the right side of the offensive line while bolstering up the flanks 
the Irish through twenty sessions, all in preparation for the 48th annual Blue-Gold game to be held on May 6th in the Stadium . 
Netters boast youth and balance 
On a more current note, the Irish baseball team under the tutelage of by Mark Ronsini holds Notre Dame's number-three rrueblood. singles position and number-two "Overall balance is our team's
Tom Kelly will open the home season this afternoon at 3:00 p.m. against Sports Writer 
team spot in doubles competition. most positive attribute," said Fal­
Bethel College. Tomorrow St. Joseph's of Indiana will visit for a one 
Youth and balance are key words lon. "There is little difference
o'clock twinbill with St. Mary's of Minnesota slated to complete the home It will be the task of Hainline and
which Coach Tom Fallon uses to between the number-one and num­
stand at 3:00 on Sunday in a single game. Horan to generate motivation in
characterize the 1978 edition of the ber-six man. It will take a while to
sophomore Carlton Harris and

Notre Dame's men's tennis team; establish a solid team, but at this
••••• freshman Herb Hopwood. Harris,
and these words could not be more time good balance is our strength."
The Irish tennis team will take on Minnesota and Indiana State 
who is known for his "well­tomorrow at nlne in the morning and two in the afternoon respectively. accurate. With only one senior rounded" game, impressed Coach In addition, Coach Fallon expects Illinois will battle the Irish Sunday morning at 10 on the Courtney Tennis returning to the starting lineup, Fallon in his freshman campaign to see more wins from his fifth and Center Courts. 
Coarh Fallon will be asked to guide sixth men. He sees this as vital to
and will be used as the Irish's 

a group of talented, but youthful, his squads over-all performance. 
number two man this year.

underclassman through a season A good overall balance will be
••••• Hopwood. a freshman, brings some
A reminder to all interhall softball captains that the meeting slated for filled with top-flight competition. needed if the Irish are to cope with 
heavy credentials and enthusiasm

this afternoon in the football auditorium in the ACC at 4:45p.m. is a must Coach Fallon will call upon Brian their power-packed schedule. This
to the squad. In high school 

as play will commence on Sunday, April 2nd. Hainline. his lone senior and week-end the Irish face a pair of
Hopwood captured the Virginia

number-one man, to provide a Big-10 powers, Minnesota and
state singles and doubles champ­

••••• source of some gravely needed Illinois, and in one week take on
ionships. This, along with a

Returning to basketball for a concluding observation, I feel that Digger leadership and inspiration. His Big-10 champ Wisconsin.
spirited fall performance, has

Phelps and his program received a compliment with the appointment of career record qualifies him for this Coach Fallon is looking for
gained him a starting position on

Dick Kuchen to the head coaching position at California-Berkeley. lofty team status. In his sophomore improvement on the team's 4-5
the squad.

Something is definitely said to Digger's program's benefit in that three of season, Hainline lead the squad spring break record, and has a 
Rounding out this extremely

his former assistants are now head coaches at schools that are renowned with a 17-4 slate, as well as great deal of confidence in his evenly talented squad are Mark
for their academic excellence. Dick DiBiaso at Stanford, Frank capturing singles and doubles vic­youthful squad. "They have good
Hoyer and Kevin Ghandi, both

McLaughlin at Harvard and now Kuchen at Cal-Berkeley are the trio of tories at the Eastern Collegiate potential, but they need confidence 
freshmen. along with sophomore

coaches that studied under Digger and the fact that these men have been Championships. Hainline, how­and college experience.'' Maturity
Tom Westphal and junior Mark

able to move up to these class institutions is a reflection on Phelps and }lis ever, must first overcome the is the name of the game and this 


own class program that stands out and makes a happening like a trip to the throes of a one-year lay-off. An additional source of needed year's Irish tennis team will be final four "all gr~vy." Junior-Captain Marty Horan. He team leadership will be supplied by -=arching for just that. 






