~-­

details in Sports (photo by John Calcutt) 

server 
an indt."pendent student newspapt."r serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, February 27, 197~
Vol. XII, No. 91 

Stricter fire safety standards issued 
so apartment-like regulations are
cork. panelling and the like in from shutting, but someone just generally they were "sound."
by Patrick Cole 
dormitory rooms. Although such used to enforce fire safety. comes along and screws them back F1anner and Grace: "There are
Specill) Projects Editor 
regulations might disappoint the "Ifone or more bedrooms lead to on.. " adequate ways to get out," Bland campus' highly-talented interior a living room or study, it can be "Another problem is making said. "In Grace, there is aEDITOR'S NOTE : This is the first 
classified as an apartment," Bland
decorators, Bland gives reasons to sure students are able to get to an sprinkler system in the compactorofa three-part series eumioillg the 
interested students why paneled indicated. exit," Bland added. "Most room. Both Grace and Flannersafety of the Uoivenity's baildiog 
rooms are not a good idea: Fll'e doors not used students know how to get to them. have a smoke-free stairwell. If theagainst fire threats. Today's series 
"What's the point in prohibiting The doors at the end of the But if you have bikes, trunks and door is kept shut, the stairwell is anwill examine the new directives 
hallways that lead to the stairwell
cork?" other things, it makes it difficult for access route out of the building_"that will be issued in donoitories, "If you don't have any material are fire doors. Their purpose: to people to get out of the dorm. So (He discouraged students fromand the fire inspection pruooss for 
to bum, then you can't have a prevent fire from entering the storage makes it important for fire using elevators in the event of abu.ildings and donoitories. 
fire." Bland said. stairwell, providing a means for safety." fire.) students to escape smoke and Bland was disappointed that Farley: "Basically, a good hall,"If you plan to live on campus next "What about lofts? How do they 
flames. A fire hazard is estab­Bland said. "There are no great
year, don't waste your time buying cause fires?" many trunk rooms have been 
lished however, because most of problems.
wood to panel the walls or any "WeD. the problem you have converted into party rooms, saying
these doors are left open in most
additional lumber to build parti-with lofts," Bland explained, "is that a great deal ofstorage area has "Breen-PbiDips: "It's a good 
dorms, Bland admitted. been lost. hall," Bland said. 
tions or lofts -it will be illegal. that it puts the student at the top of In an attempt to enforce stricter the room. When the elements "These doors should be kept Buildings are genendly safe. The Old Fieldhouse: "We're not 
shut," Bland said. "I try to take too pleased about this buildin~,
fire safety standards, the Student gather at the ceiling · carbon Bland evaluated some dormitor­
off the stops that keep the door
Housing Office has issued new mono:ride (CO) and the products of ies on campus, indicating that [Continued on page 71 directives discouraging room de-combustion · they can kill the corations that will incite a fire. The student. Plastic. too, is not healthy directives were recommended by for you when it bums." Jack Bland, fire inspector for the '"And why prohibit certain ex-University and issued as regula-• tension cords?" 
Roche approved as SU Director 
tions by Fr. John Mulcahy, directoc "Take Zahm Hall, for example," of student housing. These direc-Bland said. "A student might have by Mark Rust for a United Way fund raising "l'm really happy with thetives will printed in the da t. one outlet, and that's when he will Staff Reporter Appointments were made for the people we chose tonight," BenderManual, they will prohibit: start using extension cords. And positions on the Judicial Review ' said. "To begin with, we picked*The construction of sleeping when he does, a hazard can occur,'' 
In a meeting of the Board of 
Board, an entity created by the some excellent people for thelofts in all residence halls. said Bland, holding up a burned­
Commissioners last night, Bill
out extension cord. Board of Trustees in their October Judicial Review Board, especially
Roche, a sophomore Arts and
*The installation of plywood "So what do you recommend?" judicial reform package. The the faculty. I think that when the 
Letters student from Atlanta,
paneling, plywood sheets, derora-..I couldn't recommend any kind twelve member pool of faculty and students find QUt who we've picked
Georgia, was approved as the new
tive wood shingles, paper faced of extension cord," Bland administration members was they will be very happy.." hardboard and other flammable responded, "except the kind that is picked by the Commissioners from The Review Board, which re­
Student Union Director. Roche will replace current direc­
materials. approved foc heavy duty use." a group of 24 nominees. Their views all appeals tmtde by either *The use of cork, paper and Fire iaspedions tor Tom Gryp on April 1 after he 
names are being withheld pending the rector or a student after a hall 
flammable faeries in dorm rooms. names his commissioners and re­
notification offense, is a pool of faculty and
In order to enforce the volumi­
ceives training. 
*The use of "zip cord" or light oous number of fire safety codes, The third appointment of the administration members from 
Roche was chosen by the board 
evening, that of Student Govern-which five are chosen to review awire extension cords used with Bland schedules about three build­
from among a field of seven
appliances. Personal appliances ing inspections a year, depending ment Treasurer, was awarded to case. While all the names are 
candidates. His experience as
used in dorm rooms should have on the building. All buildings are junior Beau Mason. Currently, submitted by the administration 
Assistant Services Director was
the underwriters laboratory logo or grouped according to geography, Mason is the assistant to the and the faculty senate, the Board of 
cited by Student Body President 
outgoing treasurer. Commissioners have complete con-
seal. Bland said. The first inspection 
Dave Bender as reason to be
*Storage in the corridor of the will be made during the year at Finally, sophomore Kathy trol over which twelve are finally
"pleased with the choice."
residence hall. variable times and a third inspec· McCann, an Arts and Letters chosen. 
"I thiokBill is an excellent choice 
major, was chosen by the board as ..I'm also particularly pleasedAll construction in halls must tion will take place near the end of 
for the job," Bender explained. 
its new secretary. According withthechoice of Kathy McCann ashave the approval of the rector. the year. 
"He has had experience with the 
to TomByme, press secretary, Ms. the new secretary," Bender con­according to the directive. Stu­Ainong the codes that the Uni­Student Union since his freshman McCann will be filling the newly tinued. ..She has always done adents not obeying the fire mar­versity enforces foc fire safety are: year and has done a fine job on a created post so that ·~the concerns good job in the past and I think thatshall's standards will be given 10 The Uaifona Baildiog Code, the number of projects." 
of this board will become a matter she is just right for the job."
days to remove the materials. If 
Uniform Fire Cede, the NEPA 101 Roche was unavailable for com­of public record." Byrne played a In other matters taken up by thethe student cannot meet the 10-day Life Safety C'AJde, the Ftre Mar­ment. 
major role in developing the new board last night, money was appro­deadline. he or she will be ordered 
shall's Code. the rules and regula­The board busied itself with four set of guidelines which call for a priated for the purchase of cloverto mov!" off-campus. 
tions adopted by the state of other concerns last night, including public record of everything the pins in conjunction with the '78-'79 Indiana.. Bland revealed that some three different sets of appoint­
Why DO paneUing! board acts on or discusses. United Way campaign.
dormitory rooms such as four-man ments and the allocation of moneyFire Inspector Bland said that he suites are classified as apartments.
has discouraged the installation of. 
--~-~-~-------..,.-------:----­
~­
Monday, February 27, 1978
2 the obServer __ 
~News Briefs_____ 
f'und sponsors hunger seminar 
t============================= National 
by Laura Larimore 
Ton~sun Park now in D.C. 
WASIDNGTON -Tongsun Park, vowing to tell the "complete truth" to Congress about alleged South Korean influence buying, arrived in Washington yesterday afternoon after a one and one-half yar absence. Park, accompanied by Justice Department attorneys and surrounded by 20 U.S. and Korean security agents, arrived in the capital from Seattle. The trip marked the culmination of a painstaking U.S. effort to return the millionaire rice dealer to this country. "I hope as a result of my giving my side of the story as well as I can recollect how things did happen, I hope things will come to a happy ending," Park said when he arrived. 
UMW to vote on contract 
United Mine Workers President Arnold Miller, President Carter and Labor Secretary Ray Marshall remained cautiously optimistic yesterday as a r.ew proposal to end the nation's coal strike was being sent to the miners for ratification. But a number of union officials in West Virginia, a key state in the ratification process, were not optimistic alJOut the chances for adoption of the contract. Hopes of ending the 83-day-old strike dimmed even more when UMW members rejected a similar contract with the independent Pittsbury & Midway ~~iining Co. on Saturday. 
WEATHER 
Partly cloudy through this noon with a few snow flurries. Increasing cloudiness this afternoon with a 60 percent chance of snow beginning this evening and continuing through tomorrow. No large temperature changes. Lows tonight and tomorrow night in the mid teens. Highs today and tomorrow near 30. 
~On Campus Today_............. 
12:15 pm  mass, every day during lent, tr. ballroom  griffin, Iafortune  
12:15 pm  teaching/learning lecture series, dr. peter grande, nd. spon. by educational media office, 242 o'shag.  
12:30-1pm  film "equal rights amendment," spon. by women's rights assoc., rm. 105 law school  

12:30-1 pm lecture "the white curtain: racially di!>advantaging 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
7 pm 
7:20 pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 
8:15 pm 
local government boundary practices," donald hagman, UCLA, spon. by center for civil rights. 110 law school. 
lecture "new directions in foreign aid policy" by john sullivan, assist. admin. for asia, agency for inti' development, wash, d.c. spon. by institute tor inti' studies, area studies reading rm, 12th fl. mem. lib. 
forum on aging lecture "support system of widows," by dr. helena Iopata, spon. by mental health outreach program & geras. 117 hagger hall 
career workshop "resume and skill identification," leslie wilson & mary daly, spon. by career development ctr. 161 lemans. 
duplicate bridge ladies of nd, faculty & staff duplicate bridge. univ. club 
concert foghat with special guest stars. tickets !6 & 
! 
concert foghat with special guest stars. tickets $6 & $7. ace. 
orientation freshman orientation spotlight program. spon. by college of a & I, engr. aud. 
organizational meeting nd historical society, all are welcome, third fl. faculty lounge, o'shag. 
mozart concert nd orchestra, spon by music dept. 
washington hall. 
*The Observer 
The Gong Sho.w Chuck Barris: Joe Bauer Jaye P. Morgan: Sherry Mummert The Worms: Steve Mayer, Anne Lorenz, Tom Dowd, Bill Devitt. Sue Wuetcher, Tom Behney, Jerry J arzynka The Midget: Rosemary Mills The Unknown Comic: Frank Laurino Jamie Farr: Paul Stevenson Psychiatric AHendants: Mark Rust, Anne Giere, Tom Pow­anda.t-Carol ErkmanA . Th~ ~111: Mal'(lj Nev~ ··:f cene·wne: Bob Ber!!loskie · · The DanciR' M.chine: Debbie Dahrling Dance Arrangements By: Rob Civitello, Steve Bonomo Chuck's Wardrobe Furnished By: John "Hurt Mel" CalCutt 
· 
A"Growth with Equity" Semi­nar, co-sponsored by the Bread for the World Educational Fund, the Department of Economics, and the Congregation of the Holy Cross, was held this weekend at Moreau Semiinary. The Bread for the World Educational Fund, a branch of 
Charles speaks 
on A&L majors 
by Kate NUand 
Dr.. Isabel Charles, dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters, will 
speak tonight to interested fresh­
men about the college and on the 
value of a liberal arts education. 
The talk is given as part of the 
Spotlight program 
sponsored by the Freshman Year of 
Studies and the different colleges 
within the University. It will be 
held at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineer­
ing Auditorium. 
Dean Charles, along with Assis­
tant Dean Dr. Gilburt Loescher, 
will discuss the different majors 
and programs within the college, 
requirements for these majors, and 
possible career opportunities. 
Dan Prebish, chairman of the 
Student Advisory Council for the 
College of Arts and Letters, will 
also be present to explain the work 
of this council to students. 
In addition. there will be a 
discussion period in which the two 
deans will answer any questions. 
Materials on the College of Arts and Letters will be available in the Learning Resource Center through­out this week as a follow-up to Dean Charles' talk and as part of the Spotlight program. 
St.. Mary's O.C. formal March 10 
"Shillelagh Shimmy" will be the theme of the first semi-formal sponsored by the St. Mary's off­campus activity board. The semi­formal is slated for Friday, March 10 from 9:00p.m. to 1:00 a.m. at the Erskine Country Club. The dance is open to residence students as well as off-campus students from St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
The ticket price of fifteen dollars includes an open bar and hot hors d'oeuvres with music by "Attalla." Tickets can be purchased in LeMans hall on Tuesday from 12:30 to 4:00 p.m.. in the Madeleva student lounge on Wednesday and Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and in LaFortune on Thursday from 12:30 to 4:00p.m. 
Barb O'Neill. student coordina­tor. assured that refunds will be given if St. Mary's closes due to the energy crisis. Any further question regarding the semi-formal should be directed to her at 289-8216. 
lnterhall track 
Anyone interested in participa­ting in an inter-hall track meet should meet in the ACC fieldhouse tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. 
PREPARE FOR: 
-~·liT· LilT· 

··-·111·111 -1.11.111·--·REI·· 

Bread for the World, is an educa­tional service on hunger and rela­ted issues. The purpose of the seminar, according to Mary Evelyn Jegen, S.N.D., executive director of the Fund, was "to bring people with understanding together to discuss and reflect" on several papers relating to the right to food issue. 
Papers discussed included "On Meeting Basic Human Needs" by Denis Goulet, "Integrated Rural Development" by Albert Waterson and "U.S. Foreign Agricultural Development Policies" by Lyle Schertz. 
This seminar is part of the Educational Fund's ten-year pro­gram to have programs on hunger accepted as a necessary part of 
every higher educational institu-· 
tion's curriculum. The program is 
now in its third year. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh opened 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tl)e Obse1ver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 520 per year (S I 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second c,.n postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is • memDer Qf the Associated Press. All repro­duction right& are reserved. 
the seminar Friday evening with a welcome on behalf of the Univer­sity. He was introduced by Dr. Charles Wilber, of the Department of Economics, coordinator of the event. The three-day program was closed Sunday afternoon with an ethical reflection led by John Howard Yoder. 
The Educational Fund is a non­profit part of the Bread for the World organization, whose primary operation is lobbying for right to food legislation. It has over 21,000 members nationwide, and was founded in 1976. The group favors reforms that "enable the poor to become more self-reliant in provid­ing their own food, more able to work their own way out of hunger and poverty." 


February 28 -March 2 Library Concourse and March 1-2 Placement Center 
sign up now for an interview 
*=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=·=~=·=~=~:::::::::::::::::::·:·:·:::::·:::·:·:·:::::::.:::::::.:::::::·:·:·:·:::::::·:·:·:·:~:::::::~:~:~:::::*: 
:~:~ Student ~.fJernment \l\ f ND-SMC Right to Life ·\\\ 
f present 
{ 
The Miracle Months 
A CBS Documentary 
on Fetal Development 
Mon. Feb. 27: 
10:30 pm Farley Hall 
Tues., Feb 28: 
10 pm Alumni 
Wed, March 1st: 
~-7:30 and 8:30 -~Carrol Hall Audltoriu~i~MC ~-~··"10·30 II!W'\I'I. Wa~;..hH!.f.t -·~-;·::·.'-< --~·~;:.~··~:";.::·~<t
:·• • f<''~.., 'A. q . ·-. .>~'{ ...~ -~~~ ';!...~~ :!!=(· • 00 7:.'"$" .+' ~$'' ~-~~· 1t.
"'f • M ~-... 
l,,@..,:::.:::::::::~,::~.=~''*~;w.o'''''*-J
/ 

Monday, February 27, 1978 
the observer 
SBP candidates reveal platforms 

ANDY McKENNA 
McKenna-Roohan 
Joan Fremeau 
Copy Editor 
Further development of the ideals of coeducation, effective use of the Campus Life Council, crea­tion of a Career Development Center, improvement of student­student government communica­tions and improvement of the security force are the main issues concerning Andy McKenna, and Michael Roohan, Student Body President and Vice-President can­didates. 
The Student Body President and Vice-President must have the abil­ity to perceive student problems and find ways to solve th~m effectively, Roohan stated. 
"Our goal is to use the resources of student government for concrete problems that can be accomp­lished." 
A major goal.of the McKenna­Roohan platform is to maximize the opportunities for the interaction between men and women. They propose developing 24-hour areas in all halls, improving social space on campus, opening LaFortune student center for 24 hours, and sponsoring student government workshops for hall, class and club leaders "to develop more effective means of sponsoring social events.'' 
Student life would be improved. by keeping these issues, as well as that of the alcohol policy, before the Campus Life Council. 
Another goal of the McKenna­Roohan platform is to work with the administration to create a Career Development Center (CDC) to pro­vide competent guidance in career selection. The committee on coeducation has recommended to the Board of Trustees that a CDC be set up, according to McKenna. 
"It is one of our priorities to help get the recommendation passed and in operation." 
The McKenna platform also addresses itself to improved stu­dent communications by establish­
ing a Council of Communication, modelled after the junior class advisory council. Under this system, each hall president would appoint a representative from the hall to meet on a regular basis with the SBP and SBVP to discuss student grievances. 
"We don't want to shut off student problems and basic needs. Through direct communication with hall representatives we would become aware of individual prob­lems and be able to solve them more efficiently," McKenna said. 
The candidates also plan to issue a bi-weekly newsletter on Student Government plans, attend HPC meetings regularly and each attend individual hall council meetings throughout the semester. 
In an effort to improve. communi­cation with other schools, the platform calls for Notre Dame to sponsor a conference on Third World Development next fall. Campus leaders from various colleges and experts in the field would attend to make students 
aware of Third World problems and solutions, Roohan explained. 
Another pdority is to "push for a more professional security force" at Notre Dame. The security force 
[continued on page 6] 
Schlageter-Rizzo 
by PhD Cacldey Senior Staff Reporter 
Maximizing student input to student government is pne of the main thrusts of the campaign being run by Mike Schlageter and Jayne Rizzo, SBP and SBVP candidates. 
The Schlageter/Rizzo ticket's platform also focuses on improve­ments in campus security, efficient use of social space, career work­shops, support of social awareness programs, and improved coopera­tion with Saint Mary's student government. 
"Student government should be responsive to student needs. To do this, we want to maximize student input," Schlageter stated yester­day. "After all, we are the representatives of the students." 
Schlageter said he plans to sqlicit student input through a series of monthly forums to be held alter­nately in North quad and South quad residence halls. Studet1ts would also be encouraged to come directly to the SBP and SBVP with ideas and comments, he added. Schlageter promised a personal response to the student involved within 48 hours. · 
Rizzo and Schlageter considered forums as the best means for encouraging student input. they felt the reasons forums have not worked in the past were that "people won't walk to LaFortune," where most student government forums were formerly held. If forums are held in dorms, the candidates believed «ttendance would increase, resulting in more input. 
Feedback would also be solicited 
from the Hall President's Council 
(HPC), Rizzo stated. With input 
from both students at large and th 
HPC, Schlageter said the student 
body would help "initiate the 
initiative." 
Student input would also be an essential factor in a plan to improve campus security, Schlageter said. The candidates' platform calls for ~he creation of a security advisory board to analyze suggestions for secutity improvements which would come from students or other members of the university commu­nity. 
The board would include repre-
SMC election nominations 
open today 
Nominations for Saint Mary's student body president. vice presi­dent of academic affairs and vice president of student affairs formal­ly opened today. according to Maria-Lisa Mignanelli, elections commissioner. The three must run together on a ticket. 
Platforms (three copies of each) must be submitted to Mignanelli by midnight Sunday in 121 Augusta. Campaigning is scheduled for March 6 through 12. with the election taking place Monday. March 13 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. 
For further information, contact Mignanelli at 5774. 

NOTICE GOING OliT OF BUSINESS SALE OFFICE ENGINEERS, INC. 
116 S. M~f'.ligan-Sou1h Bend  ...:_ f!  
r  :!.J.  
r-----------------------------~~  ~  

art supplies 
30Ol~~n' r(Ji)~,
office supplies lO Ll ~~~ fA 
. 
engi1eerirg supPfoes OFF 1 _. .If( 
CASH ONLY-ARST COME, ARST SERVE j i? . \ \.,._ 
-~­
MIKE SCHLAGETER 
sentatives from the offices of Security, Student Affairs and Busi­ness Affairs, a faculty member, three representatives from the student body at large, one student representative who is also an. employee of security, and the SBVP, who would chair the board. 
After reviewing suggestions, the board would makt: recommenda · tions to Student Affairs and Secu­rity, Schlageter said. "The strenght of the board is in its ability to avoid wasted efforts which occur when proposals art:: c:onsidered from only one side," he explained. 
Schlageter advocated a constant re-evaluation ofhowwell LaFortune StudentCentermeets student needs for social space. The Schlageter/­Rizzo ticket also calls for each hall council to draw up social space renovation plans for their indivi­dual dorms. The plans would then be co-ordinated and implemented through the Campus Life Council (CLC), and Office of Stuent Affairs. 
Rizzo explained that because of the lack of guidance presently given by the University in matters of career counseling, a series of four or five career workshops would be created. The workshops would be co-ordinated thrllugh the Coun­seling Centt:r and would be modeled after the Saint Mary's Career Development Center. 
Social awareness programs such 
as CILA, Neighborhood Roots, and 
Urban Plunge would be made a"cen 
[Continued on page 6] 
People
are 
dyingfor your 
help.Give 
blood. 
Reel Cross
...&:counting
Tonyou. 
Blanco-Ewing 
by Barb Lanhenry News Editor 
A "new perspective" towards the operation and effectiveness of student government is directing the Bruce Blanco/Carey Ewing campaign for Student Body Presi­dent and Student Body Vice-Presi­dent. 
This perspective, according to Blanco, comes from his participat­io~ in the foreign study program in Mexico last year. "I gained a deeper appreciation and a greaterr respect for what we have here and the people we meet here." 
The candidates stated that they could make substantial gains in a "sutdent government that can accomplish a lot toward bettering student life at Notre Dame." They cited student life, social and judi­cial concerns, academic policy, a and ND Student Government con­stitutional refoerms in their plat­form. 
"We need an atmosphere of activity," Blanco -noted, when addressing student life at Notre Dame. To create that atmosphere, Blanco proposes allotting more money to the halls for social space development. He noted the need to form specific plans and to present them to the trustees. 
The candidates also said that they would research the possibility of building a new student activities complex that would include a bowling alley, disco, and sporting goods store. Blanco stated that the project could be funded by money from student government and the administration, and from the deve­lopment of a proprietorship. He noted the field south of University village as a possible site. 
To promote on-campus activities, they suggest reviving cultural [Continued on page 7] 


search for his roots. Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4 at 8
SMC
THE A T R [ All seats $2.50 Phone: , hi.. d $2 std-fac-staff 284-4176 
OLaug m Au . 

ENGINEERS 

Gain valuable experience in your field overseas as a Peace Corps volunteer, Sign up today at the Placement Office for a talk with recruiters on Can-pus: 
February 28 -March 2 in the Library Concourst# 
and 
March 1-2. at the Placement Center 
op1n1on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Fords' Letter 'Rascist' 
We attack the simplistic and anti-Semitic views expressed in the letter section of The Obaerver on Feb. 23. 
Mrs. and Mrs. Ford share the concerns of many Americans in their desire to see an end to the problems of energy; the arms race; the oppressions of poverty and overpopulation; worldwide econo­mic problems and eroding freedom of the press. 
But to blame the existence of the state of Israel and the freedom of Jews in the United States for these problems is myopic in the extreme and sickeningly racist. 
1) There are indeed many valid objections to the practice of diplo­macy by the state of Israel. The Palestinians do deserve a home­land in the Middle East until this problem is resolved. Bf"* •.,. nne... the problem as a case of bloodthirs­ty Jews stubbornly refusing to recognize human rights cherished by all Arabs is to totally ignore the history of the Middle East. Do not forget that from 1948 to 1967­nineteen years--the West Bank of the Jordan River was in the hands of the state of Jordan--which consistently refused to recognize the rights of the Palestinian people to establish a homeland there. 
2) It is also ridiculous to assume that oil prices will go down if the United States completely turns its bad on Israel. The price of gas in European countries which support the Arabs is twice as much as in the United States. The fact that those countries do not support Israel has not caused OPEC nations to lower oil prices in gratitude. Even though the United States increasingly sup­ports Arab diplomacy in the Middle East. oil export prices have remain­ed consistently high. 
3) We do not deny that Israel presently occupies much more land 
than it was allotted as "Jewish Palestine" in the partition decision ofthe United Nations which passed on Nov. 29, 1947. But the gains in addition to the resolution have come as the results of Israel defending herself against Arab aggression. "As soon as the state of Israel was proclaimed within the boaadaries recommended by the General Assembly. Partition plan, the armed forces of Egypt, Iraq, Transjordan, Syria, and Lebanon CI'OII8ed the border, and wide­spread and intense fighting broke out" (Uaited Nations Pe.eekeep­ing 1946-1967, Documents and Commentary, by Rosalyn Higgins, 
p. 14). To accuse Israel of being "Manufactured by European Jews who annihilated Palestine" reminds one of the Lincoln story about the traveler who was attack­ed by a highwayman who held a knife at the traveler's throat and told him "Stand and deliver, or I shall kill you, and then you shall be a murderer.... 
4) It is grandiose in the extreme for Mr. and Mrs. Ford to "guaran-• tee that there would be no more loss of American lives in the mideast." While it is possible that the lives of the Americans on the 
U.S.S. UbertJ were intentionally taken, it is much more likely that they simply got in the way. Defending one's sovereignty is not time for politeness. 
5) We gave away any defense secrets concerning the F-16 fighter long ago when we sold them to Saudi Arabia and Iran. 
While the points made on foreign policy by the Fords may be looked upon as amusing in their ignor­ance, their views proposing the oppression of American Jews are sickening and threatening to the rights of all Americans. 
A) They do, of course, have the 
right to oppose any politician they disagree with. 
B) They also have the right to boycott organizations and individu­als they disagree with--no matter how riidiculous the reasons for their disagreement. 
C) But they have no right to impose a restrictive quota system of any kind on citizens who are members of the Jewish faith and/or ancestry, unless they also propose doing away with the Bill of Rights, the 14th Amendment, and every other piece of progressive non-discriminatory legislation passed since the founding of America. 
D) Ifany group of people find the reporting of events obnoxious to their own viewpoints, they are always free to set up their own newspaper or magazine to supply alternative viewpoints. No group has the right to censor the way other groups report events and opinions. Once we decide to print or broadcast only "acceptable" views, whom do the Fords propse to be the judges of "acceptability"­-themorelves? · 
The world has never lived down the shame of allowing 6 million Jews to be slaughtered simply because they were convenient scapegoats and simply because they iliad nowhere else to flee. Those who attempt to repeat history--by making Jews universal scapegoats and by attempting to destroy the state of Israel--will find that the times are very different, and any attempt to destroy the freedoms of others will only result in the destruction of their own. 
Todd Greenburg Erik Spylanan Harry Bainbridge Thomas Costa Students at Notre Dame Law School 

Let Jews live 
Dear EcHa.-: 
The letter of Feb. 23 from Bob Ford and his wife. informing us that the Jews are the cause of this nation's major social and economic problems. is a truly original and worthy contribution to this com­munity's quest for truth. The letter's insightful analysis makes the case so obvious; it is amazing that these plain people, using so modest a medium as a letter to The Obaerver. have given their new theory to the world. 
We are doubly grateful to the Fords. lbey not only teach us about the grave threat posed by Jews in America. they provide an example of true kindness. They recommend that we act with restraint and only bar Jew<> from government, the universities. business. the press and the airwaves. With great humanity they refuse to follow their argument to its logical and novel conclusion. We do not yet have to kill Jew:.. 
Peri E. Araold 
Covertll{e 
distorted 
Dear Edia.r. 
I feel compelled to comment on The Ol.erver'a coverage of the coaJ strike and the University's and newspaper's attempt to encourage energy conservation measures. While the energy conservation measures are lang overdue, coal shortage or not, om· news has been distorted causing us to direct our attention towards the minor dis­comforts caused by the energy situation rather tban stimulatinR lis to look at and become concerned about the real issues involved. 
Both The Observer and the University were quick to jump on the bandwagon ofenergy conserva­tion while not showing any concern for the life and death issues that face the coal miners every day. Although the coal miners' demands and lad of solidarity with other workers at times, makes some of their actions and intentions ques­tionable, the present strike in­volves some uncompromisable issues. These demands include the right to strike over local grievances (a wild-<:at strike) and full restora­
tion  of  health  benefit  cutbacks  
made last year.  
Tile  necessity  of the  right  to  
strike  over  local  issues  becomes  

clear when one realizes that half the grievances cited involve unsafe working conditions. In addition, the grievance procedure can extend up 
· to one week. A wild-cat strike provision will allow local unions to deal with specific local problems without the red tape and confusion ofinvolving the entire union. It will also provide more autonomy for local onions, as opposed to com­plete control by and adherence to national union leadership. A full guaranteed health package also is a reasonable demand of workers who have the second lowest life expec­tancy by occupation (first is the farm workers) in the country. 
The length ofthe current strike is not the result of a series of United Mine Workers' refusals of contract offers as The Observer headline on page 3 in its Feb. 23 issue erroneously insinuates. The strikes length should be blamed on the coal industry's excessive profit motivation and its inattention to the full human needs of its workers. 
Somehow I hope that Notre Dame and its studt:nt body can overcome and disregard their hi~­es against workers' rights and union ;activity which they so limpid­ly display while the groundskeep­ers and other ND workers attempt to organize. Instead of directing all of our attention toward the termi­nation of the strike and the coal shortage, there is a need to respond to the hardships the miners experience while working, and also at this moment, while they are on strike without any income. 
Harlan County, a movie about coal miners and coal strikes will be shown on campus. March 2. This can be used by all of. us as an educational experience and a dis­cussion, action and organizational base for those interested in provid­ing aid and support for the coal­miners. The movie will provide us with a critical analysiS of the workers' struggle for their rights 
and  the  resulting  tension  and  
conflict  that  ensue  when  justice  
isn't achieved.  

Mldulel Fitzsimmoas 
Pn• on·ti·es 
• d 
questiODe 
Dear Editor: Might I aspire to question what milk or magnimity in judgement 

op1n1on=============== Please, Save Those Papers 
::::=::::::;::=:;;::::::=:;;::::================ john ryan 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have a longstanding reputation as a caring community. Through the early years of this decade, when conservation of natural resources was becoming an issue of concern to most Americans, many people of du Lac asked why all of the aluminum cans. newspapers. and glass consumed on this campus weekly were going to waste. Little do people realize that it takes more than observation and comments to put these resources to proper use. 
Last year, several proposals for recycling both newspapers and aluminum cans were drafted and submitted to the office of Student Affairs. Some of these were practi­cal, others were not. This fall, Student Government and the Volunteer Services Office com­bined to begin a program to recycle newspapers modeled on last year's most promising proposal. The pro­gram proved not only to be a great success environmentally, but also economically during the fall semes­ter. Many of the campuses' con­cerned environmentalists were quite happy, as were the volunteer projects which benefitted from the economic success. AD who contri­buted to this success in the program's first semester are to be congratulated, especially those who collected the papers within their halls and across the campuses. 
To continue the success this project met with in the last semes­ter, it will be necessary for those who are concerned about their environment to do more than praise a good idea. 
There are many more papers thrown away each week than are recycled; please, make the slight 
effort needed to save your news­papers through the week and put them outside the door or in your collection bin on Sunday night. People are also needed to gather the papers each week in every hall, an investment offifteen minutc:s to one half hour to help two good 
causes at once. 
Another critical need is people who would be willing to sacrifice two hours one or two Sundays a month to collect the papers around the campuses. The four or five students who have faithfully collec­ted the papers each week of the program this semester cannot be expected to do it all alone! 
If this program is to go on and expand into any of the multitide of new possibilities open, volunteers are essentiaL 
Recycling is new to the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame community. 
.There are many ways it can be expanded. Your creative ideas are needed to figure out economical ways of recycling the volumes of paper, glass, tin. and aluminum thrown away daily. How can paper be collected from office and class­room buildings without being stored in such a way as to become a fire hazard? Who has ideas for recycling cans and bottles that solve that great sanitation prob­lems that accompany them? Stu­dents, faculty, staff, administra­tion: you can contribute both your brains and your energy to a concrete improvement of your community with a minimal effect on that precious commodity called 
••tillle.. ,, Thanks to the suggestion of a concerned faculty member, we already have one expansion to offer those members of the community who live off campus. Start saving your papers now! In about five or six weeks we will have a paper drive with a bin located in the area of the stadium. Hopefully, such drives will be repeated on a regular basis once about every six weeks. Watch 11ae Observer for more details. Interested in giving us a hand, an idea, or both? At Saint Mary's, please call Kathy Meagher at 2844.381. At Notre Dame, please call me at my room, 283-8701 or Student Government, 283-6413. Please, save those papers. 
sets the priorities of commercial r----------------------------. 
enterprise above schools and uni­versities? Let us suck deeply of chocolate covered malt balls and scooners of malt liquor in warm pubs whose neon signs ever beckon light and pleasant leisure time. 
Perhaps the department stores that find it necessary to light and heat every infinite inch might rope off an area for the blue light sp.ecial of the hour, be it calculus or English literature. 
Dream on good buddies, and realize your true worth. . 
*Observer 
Editorials 
~yBNwa~--------------------------------------------~ 
191 the observer
John Barleycorn lives at sMc27 by jean powley 

The Good Earth is born by tony pace 
So, you decide to go out for the evening, but you want something other than the crowded bar scene or disco. You think ofa nice relaxed atmosphere, a place with candlelit tables and live entertainment, where waitresses will serve you a variety of mixed drinks at your table...maybe even some food. A nice dream, but is there such a place in South Bend? WeD, Vegetable Buddies fills many of those prescriptions, but now there is a new place too: Tbe Good Earth Pub. 
What is the Good Earth Ppb? It is a transformed lounge in the Sheraton Motor Inn, and it opened last Friday night. True, the Sheraton is probably the last place you would look for such a night spot, but it's there. And, if opening night was any indication, Tbe Good Earth Pub could become a very popular spot. Manager Tim EDision says that he is looking almost exclusively to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students and faculty for business. "It would be nice to have a place where students and faculty could mix in more relaxed atmosphere and discuss whatever struck their fancy:• 
Not only is Ellison looking to ·the 
ND-SMC community for business, he is 
also looking for performers. Opening night 
featured seven Notre Dame students in 
three different performances. 
The first act showcased the musical 
talents of Matt Feeney, Steve Podry and Carl Casazza. They sang solo and ensemble, occasionally with guitar and harmonica as background. Their music was soft. blendinJ; weD with the settin~. Podry was particularly effective wben he went through his repetoire of Bob Dylan 
soags. 
Friday's second act consisted of Alan John Rabideau, Kevin Quigley and Mike &II. like the firsHrio of performers they sang with ooly the ~paniment of some 
guitar. Their performance, which featured 
Ball's vocals. was very entertaining. Of
particular brillance was the rendition of the Eagles' ''Take It Easy." 
Tbe closing act on Friday was the 
Observers very own Leo C. Hansen 
playing jazz piano. Although it is difficult 
to critique the work of an acquaintance, I 
feel. in all honesty, that Leo was very good. 
With a few belts of whisky to fortify him, 
he took the stage and launched into various 
musical sojourns. For those who just 
wanted to listen, the music was fine, and 
for those who wanted to chat, it was the 
perfect backdrop. 
The music was only a part of the whole 
Friday setting. The decor, though some­
what incomplete, was reminescient of a 
back stage scent. The drinks were good; 
the prices competitive. For those who had 
the munchies, potato chips, pretzels, 
popcorn, and pizza graced the menu. 
As can be expected with any operation that is organized within a two week span of time, there were some minor technical problems on opening night. The sound system was rather primitive, with no mixer board (as one might have expected); an inadequate public-address system was used instead, boasting too much feedback and not enough volume. However, once the pub swings into full operation, the sound quality should improve. Also, the lighting was not good. It was accessible to the light crew only by a pole. The clumsy and time-consuming switching operations failed to adequately light the stage where 
needed. Again, this problem should be ironed out once the operation progresses and a better lighting system is affordable. Ellison does not want to limit himself to musical acts. "There is a great deal of talent on the two campuses. Justlook at all the performers that the Nazz attracts. We hope to get some of these people to come down here." FJiison freely admits that The Good Earth Pub is patterued after the Nazz, but it has one big advantage over the Nazz: it can serve alcoholic beverages. Once the techni~ problems can be ---Led th Good Earth Pub h uld
wU£-. out, e s o 
resemble that fictitious place which is an
alternative to crowded bars and discos. It will be open Friday and Saturday nights. 
.­

[Photo by Sue Coliton1 
***********It*****••••ItIt It It ItIt It ••It It It* ************ 
: ~
OBSERVER FEATURES
lit il 
lifo iC • -tc 
******************************************************************************************* 
WSND album 
•
revtews 
GORDON UGHTFOOT-ENDLESS WillE 
Tbe album hour on Monday night will feature the New Gordon Lightfoot LP, Ewl~• Win. Gordon Lightfoot, an uncompromising artist has again cut a fine album with some very easy listening tunes. 
On his latest album, Eadless Wire, Lightfoot again proves his mastery of the love ballad. "IfChildren Had W"mgs" and 
"The C"ude Is Small" are of the typical Lightfoot vein, with some nice steel guitar work by Pee Wee Charles. 
The album's title cut is one of the fastest Lightfoot songs in qnite some time. 
&ceDent beat and high-wire energy cbar­acterii.e this song. "Daylight Katy" reminds one of"Sundown" with its bouncy 
mc;!_~erally. , .._:_ • the ....._._1 high quality
15
vy• LIIJ3 •.7y...... 
Lightfoot LP, with some nice surprises. The back-up musicians are the same, yet a fresh sound emerges from several of the 
songs. 
BRIAN EUJOT-BIUAN EUIOT 
The album hour on Wednesday mpt will feature a new album by Brian·FJiioL Simply entitled .._aw.. the album is predominantly pop-roc:t. Elliot himself 
wrote all ofthe ablum's selections. He also sings lead vocals and plays keyboards. Wbil th alb · 
e e urn favors the pop rock sound, Flliot does introduce a smattering
ofjazz into two cuts on side one: ''Summer Nights" and "Room to Grow." Side one also provides the album's strongest nom­ber. "Queen ofOowns (One for Lilly T.)." 
Whlte the album is not particularly original, it is a solid production. There are very exceptional cuts on this LP, yet, there is a notable absence of weak cuts. EDiot enlists the assistance of a large number of musicians and singers. The album as a whole can best be uescribed by the word 
••competent.,, 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------­
the observer Monday, February 27, 197o 

ACTION starts recruiting drive 
ACTION. the federal volunteer agency. will hold a major recruit­ment campaign here beginning tomorrow through March 2. Recruiters will be looting for quali­fied volunteers to serve for two years in the Peace Corps or one year in Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA). 
Recruiters will hold interviews and explain the two programs from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day of the campaign which is headquartered at the Library Concourse and Placement Center on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Peace Corps has over 6,000 volunteers trying to address the basic needs of the poorest people in developing coutries. Volunteers go to these countries in response to requests from the countries for help in economic and social de­velopment. Currently, Peace Corps volunteers are in Africa South America, Asia, the Near East, the South Pacific and the Caribbean. 
VISTA, the Peace Corps domes­tic counterpart has over 4,500 volunteers placed throughout the 
[Continued from page 3) tral focus", Rizzo said. "They'rct just sidelights now," she explain­ed. "We want to get students' perspectives outside of the acade­mic boundaries." This would be done through student government support of such programs with both allocation 
of funds and increased publicity. "We want to give this type of program more credibility," Schla­geter said. 
The platform also advocates 
Blind student needs ride 
A blind law studenl needs lrans­portalion to and from campus. Anyone interested in helping, please call the Volunteer Services Office at 7308. 
McKenna-Roohan 
Icontinued from page 3) must be "one of protecting stu dents rather than policing stu­dents," McKenna noted. 
''We want to see proposals passed for improved security such as lighting improvememts, carried through," Roohan said. 
Other proposals include placing men's washing machines on North Quad, publishing a comprehensive course evaluation booklet, and providing off-campus storage over breaks. 
"We plan to be effective by being attentive to student needs and by being well-researched when dealing with the administration. 
McKenna is presently Junior Oass President. Roohan, present­ly president of St. Edward's Hall, served as treasurer of St. Ed's last year and as spokesman for the Student Review Committee of the Hall Presidents' Council. 
United States and is chiefly con­cerned with assisting deprived individuals and helping them to eventually be responsible for their 
own basic needs. 
While it is simpler to place applicants in countries or com­munities that have openings in their particular area, requests for specific assignments will be con­sidered, and whenever possible, honored. 
Qualified volunteers are needed in a variety of fields: social work, law, business, education, engine­ering, architecture, mechanics, carpentry, construction and others. 
Both programs require that a person have a college degree or knowledge of a skilled trade with a few years of experience; be at least 18 years old; a U.S. citizen (Peace Corps): a111d a U.S. resident 
(VISTA), 
All recmiters working in this campaign are former Peace Corps or VISTA volunteers and are able to share their personal volunteer ex­periences with prospective ap­plicants. 
ACI10N was established in July, 
1971, to coordinate federal volun­
teer service programs. In addition 
• to the two programs presently 
being recruited for, ACTION also administers Foster Grandparents, Retired Senior Volunteer Program, Senior Companions and Program for Local Service. 
Placement Bureau sponsors. Government Career Day 
byTomPepke 
The Placement Bureau will be sponsoring a Government Career Day between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. tomorrow in the second floor LaFortune Ballroom. Representa­tives from 25 departments of the Federal Government will be on hand to answer questions and provide information about their particular department. 
SG, Right to Life Council plan to show CBS film 
CBS TV's acclaimed educational the medical profession to intervene special "The Miracle Months" will to save the lives of the baby and the be shown this week on the Notre mother. Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. The film will be shown tonight in The film is sponsered by the ND Farley at 10:30 p.m.; tomorrow at student government and the ND-10 p.m. in Alumni; Wednesday SMC Right to Life Council. night at 7:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. in 
The documentary captures o, Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's and in film the growth of the unborn chi!1 Walsh at 10:30 p.m.; and on from conception through biological Thursday night at 7:30 p.m. and development in the womb. Speci 30 p.m., in the Regina Auditori­medical cases are also stud· urn at Saint Mary's and in Flanner 
rhere modern tec·s~;,;;;;,;;:~;;;o I 
frequent informal joint cabinet meetings with the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. "We can work together to form a mutual solution on problems that might come up, like the basketball tic­kets, or the shuttle," Rizzo said. Schlageter, a junior marketing major, has served during the past 
year as Student Union Services Commissioner. He is a member of the Student Union steering com­
mittee, and has served as chairman of the Grace Hall judicial board. 
Among the departments that will be representedare theDepartments of Agriculhnre, Army, Commerce, Civil Service, Defense, Health, Education and Welfare, Transpor­tation, Treasury, and Justice. 
The event has been organized by Mr. Richard Willemin. director of the Placement Bureau, and Sr. Kathleen Rossman, Career Coun­cilor and rector of Walsh Hall, with assistance from Jean Schell and Sherie McDaniels. All students. both graduates and undergradu­ates. have been invited from Notre Dame. St. Mary's. Holy Cross Junior College and Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend. regardless of their major. 
Sr. Kathleen Rossman comment­ed that the Government Career Day is "a perfect opportunity for stu­dents to get an overview of several government careers and become aware of !the options that are possible." She also remarked that it would be held in an informal. open house type of atmosphere. and would be a perfect time for students to collect information and talk to people who actually work in these fields. 
Groundskeepers' lunch tomorrow 
A brown bag solidarity luncheon will be heidi for the Notre Dame groundskeepers tomorrow in the cafeteria: art~a on the first floor of Brownson Hall between 11:30-12 noon. The lunch is sponsored by the Groundskeepers' Rights Coali­tion. 
All concerned persons are invited to attend and are asked to bring their own lunch. Lunch for the groundskeepers will be pro­vided by the Coalition. 
Sl1etl sttllle 
' 
lit~llf •••• 
\'tt111· f11f111·e 
The Air Force ROTC Two Year 
Program 
Are you really as good as you 
think you are? Want an opportunity to fest your capabilities? 
If you are a rollege student with two academic years remaining, Air Force ROTC has an opporfu. nity for you! We'll pay your way fo and from a field training encamprllent (Somewhere in A­merica), pay your salary and expenses while you are there, and give you six weeks at Field Training to look us over (while we're looking you over) so you can decide if Air Force ROTC and a rommission as an Air Force officer is for you. No obligation if you decide not to enroll in AFROTC. Summer field training positions are being filled right now!! Contact Capt. Davis, Tel: 283­6634 or visit him on campus at the Air Force ROTC offices. 
Air Fwft lltt'OC Qlfeway te • Q-eaf Way ef Life 
Third World Relief Fund solicits help 
In what is believed to be a unique solicitation on American college and university campuses, the Notre Dame Third World Relief Fund has begun its fourth annual appeal for the poor of Asia, Africa and Latin America. 
The seven agencies supported by the Fund, all of which emphasize self-help programs, are Catholic 

Hair Sltl11 If 11'1 RJnl
,... 
The Kllthll 
Use our private entrance 277-1691
at the Queen's Castle. 272-0312 Tues. & Wed. 8:30;6:30 54533 Terrace Lane Thurs. & Fri..8:30-8:30 Only 5 minufes Sat. 8:30-5 from carY1Jus 
Relief Service; Church World Ser­~ce; CARE; Interreligious Founda­tion on Community Organization/ RAINS; Coworkers of Mother Ter­esa in America; the Oxford Com­fmittee for Famine Relief-America, and UNICEF. 
As much as $15,000 yearly has been contributed to the Fund, which is entirely separate from the annual United Way appeal for community agencies. Last fall the United Way raised S62,627 from Notre Dame faculty, staff and students -Both the Third World Fund and United Way have formal University support, including pay­roll deduction for employees. 

and special guest 
STARZ 
monday feb 27 7:30pm notre dame a.c.c. 
All seats reserved: $7.00 Roor Festival Style $7.00 Reserved Chair Style $6.00 Reserved Bleadler On sale at Student 1icket office, ACC 

Monday, February 27, 197R 
the observer 
Blanco-Ewing outline SBP-SBVP platform 
[Continued from page 3] films, installing lights at the Stepan Center basketball courts and extending the ice skating time available to Notre Dame students in the ACC. 
Also included in the student life plank is a measure to work for improved security on campus. The candidates stated they will act on the report from the consultant firm which is currently investigating security. 
As a judicial concern, parietals would be categorized as serious or non-serious by the hall j-board and the rector. Non-serious parietal violations would constitute a hall offense·. Each hall may have a different standard. Blanco and Ewing also propose increasing students' voice in determining serious and non-serious violations. 
The candidates suggested the formation of a University Employee Advocacy Council as a social con­cern measure. "Notre Dame is our school and how it treat its employ­ees is important to us," Blanco stated. 
This council, whose purpose would be to advise the Personnel Office, would be composed of faculty members, students, and University workers, such as groundskeepers and laundry workers. They would discuss University relations with emplo­yees. Blanco noted the council would promote awareness of issues among students. 
The candidates also propose working with CILA and the Center for Experiential Learning to pro­mote social awareness and con­cern. In addition, they want to organize workshops and schedule speakers that would deal . with social justice. 
Acting on the premise that elected officials have earned the support of the constituency, Blanco 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 
SHAKEY'S 
SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS 
5-7:30 
MON -TUES -WED 
Pizza-Chicken· ·Spaghetti-Salad 
All You Can Eat 
,.-. 
I NOTICES 
I 
One roomate to share Campus View! .;partment. Please call 277-3509. 
I TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATESI CALL8086 
I Accurate. fast typing. Mrs. Donoho,I ~-()746. Hours; 8 am to 6 pm. 
I Typing. Reasonable rates. Call8051. 
Dissertations, manuscrpits typed. IBMI selection II. Linda's Letters....287-4971. 
I Anyone wishing to vote in the Indiana May election should contact Mo atI 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
I Lenetn confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7I pm. Anyone wishing to make appoint­ment for confession may phone CampusI Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
I 
Typing done in home. Fast. accurate, reasonable. Close to campus. CallI 272-7866 anytime. 
I 
Attention NO Judo club members: Judogi prices as follows; LW2-$12.75; LW3­$13.50; LW4-$14.50; HW3-$10.50;I HW4-$17.50; Make checks payable to NO Judo Club. Add $3 promotional fee.I Payments due Mon. or Wed. 
I COLLEGE GRADS PEACE CORPS AND VISTA
I The Peace Corps and VISTA offers unique opportunities for qualified indivi­
I duals to use their knowledge and skill in help in developing nations in Africa, 
I 
I Soputh America, Asia and alii over the United States. Build a better future for 
others as you enhance your own. Openings in a variety of fields. Living expenses and travel and other benefits are provided. For more intofftlati'on on hbW Qji <f~PlY, COIItallt volunteer recrui­1i!rs st l:.lbrary c~ oo ~. a and l'laoement Center on March 1 and l!. Sign up now! for an interview. 
ll£EO QUAUTY TYPING? Execeutary Inc., Professional Typing Service, IBM cc:r-~nbg Selectric. 85 ct;!lts per apge 
and Ewing want elected Student 
Government officials to make the 
decisions the present Board of Commissioners makes. The pre­sent board, they noted, is com­posed of only two elected officials. The SBP, SBVP and sophomore, junior and senior class presidents would compose their new Board of Commissioners. 
In additon, they want newly elected Student Government offi­cers to have a role in the selection of new Student Union officers. "Thought should also be give to the University Judicial council which has been ignored," Blanco noted. 
Blanco and Ewing want to see student-faculty relations improved. 
Also under this academic policy plank, they want the pass-fail option extended to two weeks, and want the departmental exam time to be optional for each class. Blanco suggested using the course evaluations completed by students at the end of a course to form a 
-Corby's, Corbys 
.~,-______ .
··-~-,···· and 
Anheuser Busch Present 
B PARTY 
====TUESDAY 
!t;!~ ~~c~o~~~ 2 cans NITE of Michelob at 60• each, 9 -3 you get one 8oz Bud FREE 
10-3 o'clock: 
Michelob cans 60• each 
Michelob drafts 50• each 
Also, a l'"alffle will be held. Prizes indude mirror, Tee-shirt, Beer signs, posters, etc. 
_ \ ::.~m~~~-~1 2.32-Q898 When yopu -· If you picked one up not yours call3506. ternatronal LTD. !
..__________________________________ 
$21e6~.­
WANTED 
PLEASE!!! Need ride to Dallas for break. Jini 1323. 
Ride needed to Dayton Mar. 3 for ND-UO game. Call Stevbe 2120. 
Need ride to Bloomignton or Dayton Mar. 3. Call8403. 
Ride neede to New Orleans for break. Call Max 3360. 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer and year round in Europe, S. America, Africa and Asia: All fields, $500-1200 monthly , expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor­mation-write BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Need 4GA tickets to any home basketball game. Call4+5745. 
WORK IN JAPAN!! Teach English converastion. No experience, degree or Japanese required. Send long, stamped self addressed envelope for details. Japan-181, 411 W. Center. Centralia, WA 98531 
NEED RIDE TO FORT LAUDERDALE FDR TWO FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL SMC 4774. 
HOTLINE VOLUNTEERS NEEDED: Be­come a hotline listener and learn skills to help people in our community. Next training begins March 21 and goes through April 6, Tuesday and Thursday evenings. Arrangements will be made for any SMC-ND students who will be gone over break. Interested Call Hotline; 
232-3344. 
Need ride for three to the Big Apple, New York City for spring break. We can't afford the train so call Tom, Doug or John. 3414. 
WANTED: Riders to an1:1 from Ft. Lauderdal~ tnr Spriii!J break. 24 foot WinAebago, Gall Abe 287-4828. 
HEY P. WALSH· Call Abe and he'll fix you up! . f L J k
1 11
~~4NTED: GA tix or oyo a, ca ac 
classified ads 
FOR SALE 
'65 Chevy Impala, 327,45,000 original miles. Great mechanical shape, clean, no dents, very Fttle rust. Many new parts. Sell $800. 283-8830 evenings. 
FOR SALE: BIC 981 turntable only three months old. Comes with SHURE M91EO cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell Call 3058. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC­TURES NOW AVAILABLE, CALL 8982. 
Ski boots, size 91/2, made by Kastinger. Call 3664-Don. 
WHY PAY MORE? Flanner Records has· all $7.981ist lp's for only $5.29. All $6.98 list lp's for only $4.59 (plus tax). Flanner Records, 322 Flanner, Phone 2741. 
Steal your remaining books for the semester. Pandora's is having a 1/2 price used book sale. Selected new books (Tom Robbins, Ooonesbury, ETC) at 25 percent off. Down from Corby's 233-2342 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: One expensive black ski glove (right hand). Lost near North Dinimg Hall on Tuesday, Feb. 21 . A great Service to my hand if returned. Call 1653. 
LOST: One pair of desert boots, lost at ACC. Call Craig at 8862. 
fOUND: Silver ami t.urquois ring In rm. 116 O'Shag. Call Mike at 1535 to claim. 
LOST: Men's digital watch at Library Bar· Will identify engravings. Reward.
4-4904. LOST: Acalulator during Econ. test 2 23. 
course evaluation booklet. 
Blanco is a junior government major from Morrissey Hall. He is on their hall council and is a groundskeeper coalition member. He was recently appointed to the Faculty Senate ad hoc committee to study student-faculty relations. 
Ewing, also a junior government major, is a hall council member from Farley Hall. She was on the Junior Parents' Weekend and Mardi Gras committees. She has ­worked for student union and was co-chairman for freshman and transfer student orientation. 
Fire standards raised 
[continued from page 1] sooner we find out if there is a fire, / the better off we are, right? It gets !
because it was a gym and now there are kilns in it, and rooms the students out of the building and ' the fire fighters inside."
have been divided up which were 
not intended for that use." 
Administration BuDding: "This building needs a lot of attention. It has a lot of open stairwells, and the dome is open to the top of the building." 
Holy Cross HaD: "It's halls like this one and St. Ed's and Carrol that we worry about. They are old buildings and have open stairwells, especially Sorin. In most of these buildings we have heat dectectors. I guess that makes sense: the 
PERSONALS 
Kelly H. 
One day you will be ca1,1ght with your pants down and then the bare facts will be reveiled! PS: Hope you develop a rash! 
BLANCO: You'll never win with those wiskers. Shave'em! 
BRUCE: The beard has got to go!!! 
UMOC is on the prowl! Call 2195 for details. 
Ugly man is coming...save your pennies. 
The amazing BEVO stick! Instantly makes you one of the most easily recognized and widely respected people on campus. Supplies limited. 
Now is the time for all uglies to get those pennies. 
Looking for action? Julia Dan and Doug would like to help change your life. Check us out! Library Concourse -Tue, Wed & Thurs. 
Happy 19th birthday Usa Hoerstman! We love you just the way you are. Anson, Betscrooney, MBH, Miss P. 
Hey handsome; Happy .19th! We'll celebrate in Dayton. Beautiful 
Con 
Even after a year the song remains the same -I love Beagles! Barry Manilow has the idea. 
Shivers PS: Kootchy, Kootchy 
Neta, Happy Birthday Love, Ed, Tess 
Mlysu!rtilr·eryaVm·T::::..,seednde!:A you 
~roo ~-.'1,!· 
,.-ur "'"' .,., .,.,.,. 'i
Who are you, anyway:? ·· , Dearest Mitch ! 
Yes! You need a Bevo stick. Hurry. ~ Quantities are limited. Call1728, ask for . Ger:ry; Campus Representive, Bevo In-i · 
LaFortune Student Center:! "There are some problems withj this building. There is an open stairwell on the west side of the building leading to the ballroom. ·1 would eventually like to see a heat detector system in this building." 
Washingtt>n HaD: "It's in the process of being re-done. It does have a sprinlder system. I wouldn't condemn this building, though. You just have to give it a lot of attention." 
Overall, Bland believed that it is the students' attitudes that contributes to fire safety. "It depends on the attitudes of the rectors and RA's, too," he said . "In my experience, carelessness has been a main factor." 
Bland encouraged more fire drills to let students "know what the fire alarm sounds like," enabling them to be alert when a real fire takes place. "It is important that students go through a fire drill," Bland said. "We don't think we're dealing with little kids. We're dealing with adults. 
And he believed that students are beginning to take fire safety more seriously. According to fire departm~nt statistics, the number of fire alarms decreased 12 percent in 1977. In 1976 there were 143 alarms and in 1977 the alarm signaled 126 times, 55 which were false ones. 
TOIIIOil'Ow: The University's fire insurance policy. 
Sun and Fun in Cleveland? Maybe no~\ 
--------......
but I need riders anyway for weekend starting Thurs. 2 to the 5th. Tom. 277-1222. 
1 
Margeret Mary. I 
You are stiII the foxiest lady I ever met ­Don't despair, you are number one where I it counts. 
Chuckie and Georgie ISomebody loves you. Her is your personal, ...Kinky, Huh? • I 
B. B. 
I
Welcome back, lover. I missed you! Your goal: 100 smiles for me everyday! 
I 
Paul-
I
On Apri161 hope we don't run up on a snowbank on our "second" time "out" 
I
Love, Ren 
I 
Sophomores! I 
Get your gym shorts and formal tickets on sale this week 12-4 in the class office in 
I 
Lafortune. 
I 
Kevin, 1thought I'd fi> j'Our (not in public) I wagon and do this as apublicly as I could. I 
I had agreat time last weekend and I love and miss you alot. Tell Frankie I said "hi" and 'be good........you too. Love, I 
Jill 
Turtle, 
I 
Happy Birthday-It is the thought that I counts. Not Dougie 1 
Koshka 
1 
Happy Birthday! Have you recovered from "sunrise" yet? I AXE MAN 
Desperately need ride to S. Bend at I night. Call 8-2, will pay 233-7949. 1 
· What exotic and delectible gourmet 1 delights will be feasted upon at 601 Corby tonight? Only Simon' knows. 1 
Phi..IH.ope. ~ t¥idi!d:1JIIdlosopher has a-1.-·.·'· 
hltpJ1y bl~·' 2'1. . <, ·1: 
G.A. Guniby: , ...
for your birthday present there are three things to do. One, order something . , you want. Two, get something you lost Ab_, Tllrte things-remember -J·.NLove. ,·
Gum~ber 
19 _ 
----~---~ 
Moncby, Febnary 71, 19711
the obsanrer 
Notre Dame scalps Warriors, 65-59 
Fighting Irish bounce back from 14 point halftime deficit to drop top-ranked Marquette 
by Paul Stevenson  again before Bruce flowers put the  added five.  
Sports Editor  first Irish points on tbe board from  As poor as Notre Dame looked in  
just left of the foul line.  ..the opening 20 minutes of action,  
"We  have  had  some  great  From that point on, the Warriors  tbey looked just overwhelming in  
comeback victories, but this has to  captured tbe momentum and would  tbe second half.  The change was  
rank  as  one  of  the  best,"  Irish  not relinquish it for the remainder  remarkable,  almost like  Lazareth  
mentor Digger Phelps reflected. "I  of the half.  At the 12:20 mark of  rising from the dead.  
compare today's win to our victory  the  contest,  BiD  Laimbeer  con­ Bill Hanzlik scored the opening  
over  UCLA  on  January 19,  1974,  nected on a  rebound goal.  How­ bucket of the second period from  
which.stopped their 88 game win  ever it took the Irish another 4:17 to  deep  in  the  left  corner.  Then  
streak."  Williams came  with a steal and  



:T :~f. 
~~~·· ,.
' i~'i_'~·~ ··_ -~ 
., .... ·• .''1. 
The Irish continue tradition in two wt~ys: first they down the number-one team in the country and 
second they tear down the nets. [Photo by John ukutt) 
Yes, it was truly a rare occasion. At 8:03, Flowers hit from ten feet score that brought the Irish back But regardless of where it rates in out to pull the Irish within ten, within ten and kept the crowd 
·. the conglomeration of all-time 24-14. However, the Warriors kept believing that they would bounce Notre Dame upsets, the Fighting chalking up points and led by as back. Irish, playing a remarkable defen­much as 17 during the period. At But, for lthe next four minutes, sive game, knocked off top-ranked intermission Marquette was on top, Marquette kept their poise. When Marquette, 65-59, before a capacity 39-25. Payne banked one home from six crowd at the Athletic and Convoca­In the first half, the Warriors feet, the Warriors led by 12; 47-35. tion Center. connected on 61 percent of their Then the Notre Dame cagers Although the contest will be field goals while the Irish could started on a surge that carried remembered for a long time by only find the range on 41 percent. them to ten unanswered points. Irish enthusiasts, at least the first · Ulice Payne and Jerome White­When Tripucka hit one of two foul half will be recalled by Marquette. head both paced Marquette's shots with 11 :03 left in the competi­Not until 1 :58 had elapsed in attack with ten points apiece. tion, Notre Dame only trailed by the battle were the first points Flowers led the Irish in the first five, 49-44. scored as Bernard Toone connected halfwith seven markers while Duck At the 9:09 mark, the Irish drew from 20 feet out. Toone tallied Williams and Tracy Jackson each to within one on a pair of Tripuck 
ND icers split, await Dakota 
by Ted Robinson throughout the game but respond­the middle stanza on slap shots Sports Writer ed with the big saves when needed. from the left point. Midway through tile third per­Afluk ~ goal by State's Ken 
The Notre Dame hockey team iod, Geoff Collier provided Notre Paraskein with 90 Sl-COnds left in began its grueling season-ending Dame with an insurance goal as he the second period tied the game at road trip by splitting a series with converted en a centering feed from 2-2. Paraskevin'r centering pass the Michigan State Spartans at the Don Jackson while tbe Irish were from behind the i.-ish cage de­Biggie Muon Ice Arena this week­playing at a 4-on-3 disadvantage. flected off Dick Howe's skate past a end. lbe goal was the seventh for Collier surprised IJ.-ish goalteuder John 
Behind Len Moher's second in the last six Irish games. Peterson. 
career shutout, the Irish won the Michigan State never really After the llrish dominated play in series opener, 2-0. before Russ came close to scoring against the latter minutes of be third Welch's goal with 34 seconds Moher in tbe third period. Len period, State finally managed to remaining in regulation time gave finished tbe game with 17 saves in clear the puck into the Irish zone, State a 3-2 win Saturday night. posting tbe fourth shutout of the and faster than you can say l:is The series featured tight defen­WCHA season. in a league where name, Welch had scored to give 
•sive play with a great deal of shutouts are rare. Moher's previ­State the victory. forechecking. For Notre Dame, ous career shutout was against The play was originated by which is closing out the season with Denver on Feb. 1, 1975 at the McDonald, who intercepted a Don six games in ten days, the resulting Denver Ice Arena. Jackson clearing pass and fed bumps and bruises may show up in Saturday's game saw State behind the net to Lynett. Lynett's the series with North Dakota Coach Amo Besoone shuftle his centering pass to Welch resulted in tonight and tomorrow night in lines with tbe reactivation of lead­the winning goal. Grand Forks, N.D. ing scorer, Russ Welch, who sat After Friday's victory, the Irish 
Friday night, freshman defense­out Friday's game with a miscon­were in fifth place in the WCHA, man Don Lucia put the Irish on the duct penalty. The change proved one point ahead of Colorado Col­board with a 25-foot wrist shot that effective as Tim McDonald scored ledge. But, after Saturday's loss, beat Spartan goal-tender Mark for State after four minutes of play. the Irish will have to wait for the 
Mazzoleni at the 5:09 mark of the McDonald converted a give-and-go results of their series with North opening period. with freshman center Leo Lynett Dakota and Colorado's weekena 
Despite numerous power-play for the goal. series with Duluth to see wher, opportunities for both teams, Irish defenseman Jeff they stand heading to Wisconsit. Lucia's goal held up until midway Brownschidle singlehan«!edly put for the season finale next weekend. through the third period. Part of . Notre Dame in froot 2-1 w&th a pair Tonight's game in Grand the reason for the low scoring was ofpower-play goals. The firs< came Forks begin'S at 9:30 P.M. WND{.; the clutch goal-tending of Moher midway through the opening per­Radio will <:arry reports on the who wasn't particul~trly busy. iod and the ~mid\>. 'lY through game throughout the evening. 
free throws, but the Irish were not and Whitehead added 12. In able to get over the top until 2:48 addition, while the Warriors out­remained when Williams hit from rebounded the Irish in the first half 15 feet to give Notre Dame their by a 15 to eight margin. Notre first lead of the ballgame, 58-57. Dame cut that deficit to 24-20 by 
The Irish then continued for tbe game's conclusion. seven unacknowledged markers to "lbere are no excuses for tbe take a 65-57 advantage. Fmally, way we played today," Marquette Butch Lee connected at tbe buzzer Head Coach Hank Raymonds to end the scoring and the game, stated. "If you can't bold a 14 65-59. point lead after one half, then there 
The Fighting IriSh shot an incre­has to be something wrong with dible 68 percent from the field in your team." the second half, compared to 39 "NotreDame was very patient in percent for the Warriors. For the the second half and showed an game, Notre Dame shot 55 percent awful lot of poise," Raymonds while Marquette hit on 51 percent. continued. 'I have to give them a 
Tripueka, the game's Most Valu­lot of credit for their tremendous able Player, led the Irish with 15 comeback. They are a very good points, hitting five ofeight from the ballclub." field and five of six from the Notre Dame really put things charity strip.Williams followed Tri together in the second half. pucka with 14 points. while Flowers That, more than anything else, is a and Rich Branning added nine and sign of a championship basketball eight, respectively. team. 
But, aside from offense, the key When everything is going man in the Notre Dame triumph wrong, when the chips are down, was Hanzlik. In the early going, ·the ability to bounce back is a rare the Irish could not assemble a one. But. for Notre Dame. Febru­successful combination. But, ary 26, 1978 is a date that will be towards the conclusion of the treasured along with many other opening period and throughout the Irish upsets. second half, Hanzlik controlled "There were six things we felt Marquette's Butch Lee. Lee .was we had to do today," Phelps only able to score 14 points in the commented. "They were don't encounter, hitting only six of 19 foul. box out, contain Lee. make shots from the field. free throws, run against them, and Hanzlik helped stifle the Warrior avoid turnovers." Thanks to a attack but also .tided Notre Dame phenomenal second half, the Notre on offense wi· h a game high six Dame cagers achieved their goals. assists, while adding one blocked The next Notre Dame basketball shot and two steals. game will be this Saturday at 
The Warriors wer led by Lee Dayton, Ohio against tbe Flyers. with his 14 markers, while Payne Tip-off is slated for 8:15p.m. 
*Observer 
Sports 

