Alcohol directive draws response • 

f-!PC sets up student committee 
by Kevin Richardson Staff Reporter 

An emergency meeting of the Hall President's Council was held last night to review proposals dealing with the directive handed down this week by Dean of Students James Roemer regarding student use of alcohol. The HPC neither approved nor disapproved a compromise brought to it by the special student committee set uv to deal with the issue. 
The question of whether or not students will be allowed by the University to assume traditional operating procedures for tomorrow's football game was settled in a manner Student Body President Andy McKenna termed as "fair under the 
circumstances." 
"They feel very strongly about the alcohol problem here and felt something strong needed to be done," McKenna said. He stressed that the "Dean of Students will take responsibility for fulfilling the regulations in DuLac and that we, the students, will be responsible for 'policing' the green field." 
Jayne Rizzo, Judicial Coordinator, noted that "The University is primarily concerned with drinking in the stadium but it bound by University rules and Indiana State Law." · 
[continued on page 8] 


Roem·er stresses 'serious abuse' 
by Tony Pace Ed.Jtor-in-Chlef 

Although a controversial alcohol directive is still in effect for this football weekend, Dean of Students James Roemer indicated in an interview last night that the emphasis of the directive is on serious alcohol abuse, especially within the football 
stadium. "We are very limited in the kinds of things we can do around the football stadium ~it~ _that c~owd. of 50-60,~ people. We will exercise cJmmon sense in every md1vtdual situation. We wdl be concerned first and foremost with serious alcohol abuse," Roemer stated. Flanner Hall President Tom Paese, speaking on behalf of the student government representatives who met with University officials to discuss the problem, commented "We are deeply concerned about alcohol abuse and we expect responsible drinking this weekend." ' The discussions concerning the alcohol directive were between Roemer and student government leaders, including Paese, SBP Andy McKenna, SBVP Mike Roohan, Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo, HPC Chairman Chuck Delgrande, St. Ed's President Bill Vida, and Dillon President Marty Paulson. Meetings were held over [continued on page 8] 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No.9 Friday, September 8, 1978 

Summit continues 
CAMP DAVID, Md. [AP] ··Pres­ident Carter stepped up the pace at the Mideast summit yesterday bringing Egypt's Anwar Sadat and Israel's Menachem Begin together for two face-to-face sessions within six hours. 
Under Carter's guidance, Begin and Sadat discussed the thorniest issues of the 30-year-old Arab­Israeli conflict during the secrecy­shrouded talks at this presidential retreat in Maryland's Catoctin mountains. 
Carter's negotiating strategy is to avoid the easier course of beginning with peripheral and less controversial items. An Egyptian official, asking to remain anony­mous, said Carter, Begin and Sadat were discussing central issues. 
But Jody Powell, White House press secretary and summit spokesman, dismissed the notion of 
U.S. troops in the Mideast as "one of the great non-existent stories of all time." He described as "hog­wash'' reports that the administra­tion was considering an American air base in territories won by Israel in the 1967 war. 
At nightfall, Carter planned to take a break with the Egyptian president and Israeli prime minis­ter at a display of precision-drilling by U.S. Marines brought to Camp David from Washington. 
Then, with Mrs. Carter, the president was hosting a reception for summit delegations. 
The U.S. president is trying to persuade Sadat and Begin to compromise their differences over borders, Jewish settlements, a Palestinian homeland and peace terms. 
There was no word from the Egyptians, the Israelis or the Americans about whether Carter was making progress. 
Earlier yesterday as the day'~ 
[continued on page 51 

At school, these young women not only aspire to expand their minds, they dulre to gain 1thletlc prowess to boot. (Photo by Mark Ricca) 


Directives subject to review 
by Michael Lewis situation" on campus. News Editor McKenna added that student -input had become the key issue by 
A temporary measure giving students more input into directives issued by Dean of Students James Roemer went into effect yesterday. The statement was drawn up in a meeting last night between Univer­sity Provost Timothy O'Meara and a student committee headed by Student Body President Andy Me-· Kenna. 
The measure came following Roemer's recent directive concern­ing enforcement of the University alcohol policy. Any directive issued from Roemer's office has the force of a University regulation. 
McKenna and other committee members said that the alcohol directive, combined with over­crowding, social space and other issues. stirred up an "explosive yesterdaymorning and the commit­tee, appointed at Tuesday's Hall Presidents Council meeting. met yesterday afternoon and evening with O'Meara to find a solution to both the issue of student input and the alcohol directive itself. 
The plan establishes that "future directives issued by the Dean of Students which add new rules or regulations or interpret existing rules and regulations shall first be submitted to the Student Body President, the Chairman of the Hall President's Council and the Judi­cial Coordinator." The three students would then comment on the directive to the Dean. 
If no agreement were reached, any two of the three students could then appeal to Fr. John vanWolv­lear. vice-president for Student Affairs. Further appeals could be made to the provost and eventually to the president of the University. 
The procedure will end at the October break. The Campus Life Council is responsible for recom­mending permanent measures for dealing with directives beforeOcto­ber break. 
McKenna termed the measure "a solid commitment on the part of the administration to allow for more student unput. '' 
Student Body Vice-President Mike Roohan said a major advan­tage of the measure is that student representatives "will be able to review directives before they go into effect." 
The question of student input and the alcohol directive were handled at the same time. accord­
(.,.aa..t.,...l] 


Friday, September 8, 1978
2 the observer··­
,_News Briefs____..........._., 

'Who' drummer dead 
LONDON -Keith Moon, the wild, raucous drummer of The Who rock group whose 1969 rock opera "Tommy" was considered ~y many the finest peice of rock music of the decaue, was found dead 10 his apartment Thursday He was J 1. 

U.S. businessman l{uilt_y 
MOSCOWThe trialof American businessman Francis J. Crawford, which strained U.S.-Soviet relations ended yesterday with a suspended five-year sentence on charges of black market currency dealings. The tractor salesman immediately applied for an exit visa and started packing his bags for home. It was learned the 37-year-old International Harvester executive has a reservation for a Friday night flight to Frankfurt, West Germany. A statement yesterday by International Harvester's Chicago headquarters said: "We expect he will soon return home for a long vacation." Crawford could have received eight years in a labor camp. His sentence and those of his three Russian co-defendants followed the recommendations of the prosecutor. _ 
::======-===================:=::::::: National 
Carter~ veto upheld 
WASHINGTON-President Carter won a surprisingly strong victory in his first veto confrontation with Congress as the House upheld yesterday his rejection of the Defense Authorization Act and its $2 billion nuclear aircraftcarrier. Despite an intensive bipartisan· campaign mounted by the armed services committees in both House and Senate to override the Aug. 17 veto, Carter was sustained with power to spare. The vote to override failed 191-206, or 74 votes short of the necessary two-thirds. Leaders on both sides of the , issue had predicted a much closer outcome. 

More Legionnaires ' disease 
NEW YORK -Interviews and calls to a telephone hotline turned up 34 new suspected cases of Legionnaires' disease in Manhattan's garment district yesterday as health inspectors checked air conditioners and water supplies for the malady's source. There have been two confirmed deaths from Legionnaires' disease in the recent outbreak and one other may be linked. Six other persons have hospitalized. All the victims worked in the sprawling garment district. which is home of the fashion industry and New York's largest business with about 7S,OOO employees. 

Weather 

Mostly sunny and very warm today and tomorrow with highs around 
90. Clear and mild tonight with lows in the low to mid 60s. 

~on Campus Today 
friday sept. 8  
3 pm  tennis  smc vs. indiana state university, on the regina  
courts  
5pm  carney '78, picnic and carnival on the north and  

south quads, sponsored by the student government 7 and 10 pm, film, "papillon" sponsored by the su, engr. aud., $1 7:30pm, pep rally, stepan center 8 pm, soccer, nd vs. st. louis community college, home 
8:30pm bible study college life. sponsored by the campus crusade for christ Howard hall chapel saturday sept. 9 1976 1:30pm, football, nd vs. missouri,home 8 pm, soccer, nd vs. saint louis community college. carter field 8pm, concert, by bruce springstein. a.c.c. 
sunday september 10 

10:30 am, mass, official opening mass with father hesburgh as the principal celebrant, admln bldg 
1:15pm, concert, mary ann dodd, organist, at sacred heart 
2·4 pm, president's reception for new faculty, c.c.e. 
;;-,!"!--,..,. "' ~~:J_~,, \ An anxious group of hall presidents and concerned students discussed the recently Issued alco.ho directive and the larger issue of the Dean of Students power to Issue directives without review las night In the Flanner Commons. (Photo by Mark Ricca}  


Concert series continues 
The Notre Dame Concert Series 
will present Mary Ann Dodd, 
organ, in a solo recital 8:00 p.m. 
Sunday, in Sacred Heart Church. 
The recital, which will follow 
evening vespers, is open to the 
public without charge. 

Dodd is University Organist and 
instructor of organ at Colgate 
University, Hamilton, N.Y. An 
active member of the American 
Guild of Organists and the Organ 
Historical Society, she has lectured 
and performed widely. 

She holds music degrees from the Universities of Arkansas and Tennessee, and has studied at Oberlin Conservatory, American Conservatory, Northwestern Uni­versity and Columbia University. 
Sunday's program includes organ works from the French and German Baroque and from the 20th century. 
%The Observer 
Night Editor: FrankL. Kebe, Jr. Asst. Night Editor: Ed Neuert Layout Staff: Karen Knoll Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Maureen O'Brien Sports Layout: Ray O'Brian, Lou Serverino, Mark Ronsini Typists: Trician Meehan, Bill Swift. Anne Giere, Tom Po­wanda E.M.T.: Mary "Marathon" McCauley Day Edltor: M aribeth Moran Copy Reader: Phil Cackley, Mark Rust Ad Layout: Beth Cutter, Chris Slatt, Bob Rudy Photographer: Mark Ricca 


Baroque works include Bach's include "~ummer 73/0ntario," for fantasy on "Komm, heiliger Geist, 
organ and tape, by Derek Healey,
Herr Gott," and a Buxtehude Depre's "Prelude and Fugue in F chorale prelude on "Nun bitten wir minor," and Jolivet's "Hymn to den heiligen Geist." Modern works the Universe." 
Panty raid called 'orderly and relaxed' 
by Ellen Buddy Mary's Security until the Notre 
Staff Reporter Dame Security arrived to escort hi 
to the hospital. 

The annual panty raid between Property damage was limited to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's was one broken Regina North window, described as orderly and relax~d by according to Kommcrs, who d~­Nancy Kommcrs. Director of Public scribed the raid as '·a nice quiet Information at Saint Mary's. event." 
The only serious event of the raid Apparantly the raiders came occurred when a Notre Dame over in two different waves. The st~denteither fell or was pushed first arrived at 10 p.m. followed by 
from theroofpatio of Regina North. anothe large group at 11:40 p.m. Reportedly he was not seriously Following tradition they went from injured. He was attended by Saint hall to hall chanting for "silk." 
Oldsters zip around 
SUN CITY, Ariz. [API -Resi­dents of this retirement communi­ty, not content to glide gracefully from one tee to the next, have reportedly been souping up their golf carts to go as fast as SO mph. 
"There are some people out there souping up golf carts the way kids soup up 1946 Chevies,'' said Bob Langguth, deputy director of the state Motor Vehicle Division. "There is a guy, I was told, who souped up a golf cart to go SO.'' 
Said one sheriff's deputy: "Once in a while one of them gets away from somebody." 
Langguth's agency licenses golf cart dealers under a vear-old law that defines the vehicles as two­passenger, 1.300-pound. IS mph conveyances with three or more wheels on the ground. 
Dealers in the Sun City area say it's not unusual to see the carts ­their electric motors whining and fringed tops flapping -zipping down the street toward the super­market. 
The Motor Vehicle Division con­ducted an inquiry into use of the carts after a front-page story in the Sun City News-Sun named dealers, prices and golf-carts speeds al­legedly r · from 12 to 40 mph. 


Sunday Masses at 
Ci!IIJPUS 
Sacred Heart Church
m1n1Stry 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Vigil Rev. Robert Griffin 
9:15 a.m. Sunday Rev. Richard Conyers 
10:30 a.m. Solemn Opening Mass Celebrant -Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh Homillst -Rev. David D. Burrell 

12:15 p.m.Sunday Rev. William Toohey 
Rev. Theodore M. He!SbiUnl,h 
:·······························:
. 
: Off-Campus Students~ 

NOW! Weekdays-7:20 -9:40 • • IN Sat. Sun. 2:()()-4:30-7:20 
9:40 : • Carney '78 Dinner : • 4 JUSt ~t.w hai... bet'Tlth<' Greatest 
: Tickets ($3.50) : :are now on sale in tlus . 
· · Student Gov't office,: 

FAYE DUNAWAY-TOMMY LEE •
. .
JONES • --IN­
: 2nd floor Lafortune.:

"THE EYES OF LAURA MARS" .f\• • •
• 
•
•
.................................• 


Frldn. September I, 1971 the observer 
Toga! Toga! Toga! 




_Pep rally and 'undie' raid open weekend 
by Leslie Brinkley and Cathy Santoro 

Irish fans proclaimed their loyal­ty last night at the Dillon pep rally, held in the Dillon-Alumni court­yard. Approximately 350 students crowded around a second floor balcony to hear a series of speeches and to shout a round of cheers. 
National Lampoon's film, "Ani· mal House," became the rally's theme, as cries of "Toga, Toga!'" rang through the throng of stu­dents. Beginning at 8 p.m., the pep rally, an annual event which marks the start · of the football season, wasemceedby Jim "Jive" Dorgan, WSND-AM manager. Also appearing were the Notre Dame cheerleaders, who wore new green and gold uniforms. 
Commenting on tomorrow's Missouri game, Irish Assistant Head Coach Merv Johnson pre­dicted that, "It's going to be a real dogfight, but we'll be ready!" Johnson was introduced as football team captain for the University of Missouri in 1957. 
Later in the rally, Defensive Coach George Kelly declared, "This is Notre Dame -this is what it's all about... and we couldn't do it without the student body.'' Other speakers included Jerome Heavens, Joe Montana, Bob Golic, Dave Huffman, and ''General Pat­ton". 
Notre Dame's answer to a son!l recorded last year by disappointed Alabama fans was played at the rally. Four Dillon business majors are marketing the song, ''The Little Blue Nun Replies," on a mini­album, which is now being sold in the campus bookstore. 
A happy hour at Nickies was scheduled to begin at 9 p.m., after the rally drew to a close. No incidents as a result of the event were reported. 
Questioned about the lack of a "Dillon Run" this year, Dillon Hall President Mary Paulson attributed its absence to ''the destruction caused ·in the last few years not only by Dillon, but by other dorms that they would go through." 
Originating as a harmless run across, the campus, the traditional Dillon r function led to vandalism problems, due to dorm rivalries. ''This year we wanted to avoid any trouble and just put on a first class pep rally," Paulson said. 
Walsh Wins "Wares" 

"We want Hanes" rang through the Dillon-Allumni courtyard last night when 90 Walsh residents raided Dillon Hall following the Dillon pep rally. The girls, wearing togas and wreaths, shouted for the 
men· s  "undies"  and  sang  their  
own  version  of the  Dillon  fight  
song.  •  

Dillon residents not only turned out to meet the e:irls' request, but 
added a few surprises of their own. have spirit."The men gathered on the ha11 Pet, "the Beak" Visceglia, Sec­
balcony to toss out their ''wares'' retary for Dillon Hall, commented along with garbage cans of water "We're happy to see a comparable on the girls below. The raiders, Dillon spirit in a girls' hall on the 
with their cotton spoils in hand, South Quad." circled the dorm once chanting Panty raids have typically been "toga, toga" before returning to carried out by the men's dormitor­Walsh. ies at Notre Dame. Walsh's effort 
The raid was organized by Mary last night was a unique addition to Reppa, Vice-President of Walsh student pre-game festivities. Hall, "To show that girls' dorms 
Exercise with Dancing Irish this Sunday night 
ND-SMC community. 
The Dancing Irish have begun The open practice will be heldtheir fall practices. Since practices Sunday nights at 6 p.m. in theconsist mainly of stretching, lim­LaFortune Ballroom and should bebering, and strengthening exer­a good workout for anyone who has cises which can benefit every trouble getting motivated to exer-· woman, the squad is opening one cise on their own.
practice a week to all women in the 




• 1 : • • ••• -_... : ~•• ~ ....... .. • 
.. .. .
~ 
Friday, September 8, 1978
the observer 


' 
I l· 

THE 
~6 


WARNER BROTHERS 
Present 
EGBERID 

PAT METHENY
GISMONTI 


GROUP
' .

SolDO Meio Dia 
1\f!ithJarrett 


LYLE MAYS
MYSONG 

Jan Garbarek, Palle IJani£/sson, 

MARK EGAN
Jon Christensen 


DAN GOTTLIEB 
[ECM] 
EGBERrtJ 
PAT METHENY
GISIMJNTI 
GROUP.
5DI Do Melo Dla 
I LYLE MAYS


l(i?ithJarrett 
MYSONG 
MARK EGAN 
l> l> 

Jan Garbarek, Pa1Je Daniei.sson.,
:; 
Jon Christi!IUJ!n
f) 
DAN CO I TLIEB 
!! 
J 
) 


ECM 
) ----' 

JOHN ABERCROMBIE DAVE HOLLAND 

JACK DEJOHNETTE EBERHARD WEBER 
Gateway 2 COLOURS· Silent Feet 

JOHN ABERCROMBIE 
DAVE HOllAND JACK DEJOHNETTE Gateway 2 

EBERHARD WEBER COLOURS· Silent Feet 






.. 

A V AllABLE NOW 
ust 




located in the 100 Center in Mishawaka OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Phone -259-1813 
, 
Friday, Septtm ber 8, 1171 
• the observer 
5 
~ ----~ 




Continued bombings disrupt Indianapolis 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] ,· Residents of the normally quiel. Speedway area of Indianapolis began with­drawing in fear yesterday as police intensified their investigation and businesmen offered a reward for the capture of whoever has set off eight. bombs in six days. 
Parents warned. their children not to touch unfamiliar objects or go out at night, and Speedway police imposed a curfew for juven­iles from 10:30 p.m. until~ a.m. 
All night-time school activities parking lot as a freshman football game was letting out Wednesday night. 

Pylitt sand Carl D. DeLong, 39, who was removed from the critical list at Wishard Hospital yesterday but remained in serious condition, reportedly kicked a gym bag that contained the homemade explo­stve 
LeLong's wife, Sandy, 39, who was waiting in the parking lot with her husband for the couple's son to shower after the game, was in good going to have any crowd-gathering events or night activities in school buildings, at least for the rest of this week.'' 
Weller said parents also have been told there will be no penalty if they want to keep their children home. 
Nevertheless, he said authorities were stymied, with no suspects and no clues. A dozen federal agents were helping city police in the around-the-clock investigation. 
Pylitt said the most feasible 

But he said investigators were puzzled because no person or group has tried to claim responsi­bility for the bombings. "It's really unusual that someone doesn't want to say 'I did it,"' he said. 
The device in each bombing was composed of a six-volt battery, a cooking timer, gunpowder packed tightly in a 12-ounce beverage can wrapped in a towell and a coil, believed to be part of a timer. 
The first four explosions came Friday night, starting about 10 school. 
Two more blasts were off Sunday at a bowling alley, the first again coming about 10 p.m. The seventh exploded about the same time -Tuesday night, wrecking the unoc­
cupied car of an off-duty policeman ·outside an apartment complex. 
Becausenoone had been endan­
gered before. police originally 
thought the explosions were part of 
a prank, but Pylitt said. "If it's a 
prank, they might do one or two, 
but not eight or nine." 

were po~Lponed indefinitely, inclu­condition. The third victim, who theory is that the bomber is p.m. and early Saturday. A car was­Agents of the Treasury Depart­ding a Friday night football game was not identified, suffered minor "somebody who's got a gripe with damaged and plate windows were ment's Bureau of Alcohol. Tobacco between Speedway High School shrapnel wounds in his left shoul­Speedway because they (the explo­shattered. One of the Saturday and Firearms were and rival Mooresville. Outdoor der. Pylitt said. sions) have all stayed there," bombs was set outside the high the first four bombin recesses were cancelled for ele­Until then. residents had been mentary pupils and all school concerned, but not frightened, by buildings were locked to keep the series of mysterious explosiions strangers out. that have come without warning 
"If you see something, don't since last Friday night. The first touch it. don't kick it. don't drive seven bombs had been planted in over it," warned Assistant U.S. places. including a corn field. Attorney Barnard Pylitt. ''We'd where no people were endangered. rather come out and look at a bag "When my kids get up. I'm of grass clippings than have a going to tell them not to go near bomb explode on somebody.' an~·thing that looks out of place." 
At an afternoon news confer­Jim Borgioli. v.·ho_ lives across the ence. Speedway P<1licc Chief Ro­street from the high school. said bert L. Copeland said police patrols after the Wednesday night attack. were being increased from eight to ''I'll tell them not to pick up 10 hours so there would he an anything. only things that you overlap of personnel drop. There· s no sense in taking a 
Copeland said authorities had a chance." "packet of information" several A neighbor. Helen Thrash. said inches thick on the bombings. but she thought the first bomb in a he refused to comment on specifics shaping center trash bin Friday of the case since federal authorities night was a prank. "Then you are now heading the investigation. begin to wonder. I was very upset 
Speedway Town Board member Friday night. Now I am extremely Harry Eakin said local government, apprehensive," she said. "I don't businessmen and citizens have know what to think. I'm in a state offered a $2,500 reward for leads in of shock.'' the case. Speedway School Superinten­
"There must be a parent, spouse dent Dale Weller said officials or friend who suspects who may be decided against closing schools, 
Implementing various method!~ of education, these tower-dwellers view the boob tube. 
responsible for these bombings -or partially because they felt it would who can provide information on be more dangerous for several them," Eakin said. hundred children to be out of Monday night 
The reaction turned from irrita­school and on the streets. tion and curiosity to anger and "We're of the opinion that apprehension after the eighth darkness gives the mad bomber an 
Darby's Place set to open
bombing injured three persons, advantage. It's his chief ally," he 
by Andy Segovia 

one seriously. in the high school said. "So we're definitely not Sunday through Thursday nights vear." Paulson added. "It would
Staff Reporter 

from midnight to 4 a.m. be the only foodsalcs availabe to ··Basically we offer a place to go students after midnight."
Darby's Place, Notre Dame's 

for insomniacs. late night studiers. Thursday nights Darby's will
late night spot, will begin operation

Summit continues 
or anybody who needs to talk with feature classic comedy films by
for the new school year Monday 

someone at two or thre-: in the such artists as Charlie Chaplin and[continued from page 1] David. Powell said it was because night, according to manager Kevin morning." Paulson stated. laurel and Hardy.
first big-three meeting was draw­of his •'general role and expertise Paulson. 
Coffee, tea. doughnuts and other 
ing to a close, Powell touched on in the area.'' But Brown and other The establishment, located in the "Darby's is supported from Stu­
refreshments arc availabe to the 
Carter's determination to work out key advisers did not participate in La Fortune Rathskeller will begin dent Union funds and student
patrons. "We also hope to have an 
meaningful compromises toward a Carter's meeting with Begin and its fifth vear under the proprietor­donations.'· Paulson commented.
· expanded food sales program this settlement. Sadat. The three leaders were ship of the famous canine Darby
' 
Powell said he would "certainly alone for their three-way session. O'Gill. Darby's will be open •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

not be surprised" if the discussion dealt with such troublesome topics as the Israeli-occupied West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip. 
It was the second three-way meeting in two days. Powell said Carter, Begin and Sadat would take "breaks" over the weekend for religious observances at Camp David--but "there will be no overall break." 
The spokesman declined to describe the mood at the meeting. "I don't feel that is necessary at this point," Powell said. " ...Not having been there, I wouldn't want to characterize them with any term that has reverberations." 

Powell also refused to term the talks a resumption of direct negoti­ations between Egypt and Israel. The negotiations were broken off last January in Jerusalem at the ministerial level. 
Egyptian sources said they expected the talks to be extended into next week. But Powell made no predictions beyond the weekend. 
Carter brought Begin and Sadat together at 10:40 a.m. EDT. Their meeting in Aspen Lodge, the U.S. president's quarters, ended at 1:35 p.m. 
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown was summoned to Camp 
Judicial Council 
1 

i1j::NE~0M6fl~'~ 
f!J~ ,~ ~--~ ~ 

CBttuce 


gprrtng~teett 
and the 

gtneet CBond 
gotullda4 ~e~t. 9th 8 ~.m. 
u\Jotke COame u\CC
. 
. '-' 

aQQ gea~ llegetnJed S8.00 and S7.00 I • on ~aQe now at tl1e ace ho~ oMwe j
I 



iCI!I~ 

OVER OUR OVEN-BAKED 
"3 Egg" Omelettes 
LIGHT & FLUFFY FROM ALL SERVED WITH' ~1 




(a,­

CHOICE OF: \:P e~ 3 Buttermilk Pancakea or Toast 
U.S.31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland 

The Judicial Council will hold its 

(Across from Holiday Inn)
first meeting Sunday, at 4 p.m. at 
the Lyons Hall Chapel. All hall ~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiliii~ OPEN 8:00 A.M. DAILY 
judicial board chairmen are asked 
OPEN. 24 HOUR_$ FRI. & SAT.
to attend. 
r 
-----~ 

()()()SI~S ~lSI ~~" 
1 

f1lcle1l 1-14()()~ I-1()UI2 l-t> J!fn ~ ~" J>()~§t 1;) ~ ()rctft§ ~~ 111='1::: £~11§ ;)()~ ..l~t?cl ()rlll12§ ~ ~ tl.ll 
SCltulciCll (f()()t~ctll ()(),-) ~~~ 1-lc')lllfn~§ 1 ()Ill till 1 J!lll ~~"~ 11 1='~ £~II§ tJ.1;) 131()()()~ ~•12~~s ()lct.~!:·~n•~§ ,1•4u . 
~ ff)f , ••()() Strf)li§ £ct§f?§ tt>.Jl 
liCJtJf)f Stf)lf? S()t?t:IClls 
(21J41!1 WlliSt\1~ tJ.CJCJ (2u~rt ~()()t\4~ tJ.~CJ . ()()()Sf ~()()l\4..·§()f?£1Cll -(() ~~ clllll()Uil£t?cl WI J?ctrt,-E~ll!l' ~~~~~~~ ctt ()()()SI~s Wc~t£11 f()r §i)t?t:le~l§ ()ll()llf?l 1JJ-111;) 
I 

j. • 
,

..-----~-----------------------------.... -. \. ~----­
......)'-"'"'....,. . 

Friday, Septem bar 8, 1978 the observer 
7 



Colleges need $$$ 

[APJ -American colleges are entering a timeof retrenchment and fierce competition. The long-range problem is the declining birthrate of the 1960s. The current trouble is money. 
Nowhere is the apprehension greater than among the 1500 pri­vate colleges, whose administra­tors fear they lack the political clout and the support of state treasuries that may determine which schools survive. 
The annual supply of potential freshmen won't drop in absolute numbers until 1993, but many private colleges, mainly because of inflation, are already showing symptoms of the new era of no-growth--"steady state," educa­tors call it. 
A decade ago a student entering college might have sent out several dozen applications. Today he may receive that many promotion bro­chures from admissions offices. 
A decade ago schools were am­bitiously building dormitories and classrooms. Today they are scra­ping for paint and plaster and other maintenance money. A decade ago, esoteric and offbeat course.s proliferated. Today some tradt­tional offerings have become lux­uries. 
''The most critical problem is inflation," says Dr. George Rains­ford, president of Kalamazoo Col­lege in Michigan and president of the National Association of Private Colleges and Universities. "We can't pass higher costs on to the Legislature as public schools can. And if we increase tuition to cover by Kathleen Rosenthal 

A conference with student leaders from across the country, a film festival, an Oct. 10 kick-off day, and workshops, comprise the Notre Dame Student Government's 78-79 "Developing Countries Awareness Campaign.•• 
Students from one hundred and fifty schools will be invited to a March 2, 3, and 4 conference that will conclude the campaign. 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, University President,hasbeen asked to speak, and one other major speaker is still being sought. One speaker will give the opening address on Fri­day, March 2, and the other will deliver a closing speech at Sunday brunch. On Saturday small group 
BULLA SHED IS ACROSS FROM GRACE HALL ON JUNIPER & BULLA ADS. meetings and talks are scheduled. "The objective of the campaign is 
• .........~••••••••••••••••••••••~ to educate the Notre Dame com­
+ 
RIVER CITY RECORDS & BAMBOO PRODUCI'IONS +munity about the problems and : IN ASSOCI~TION ~TH THE N.D. STUDENT UNION +strength of developing countries,"

+ 
PRESENTS AN EVENING WITH + said Student Body President Andy+ +McKenna yesterday.

+ 
: Another thrust of the campaign is 


costs, we price ourselves out of the market. ·• 
The association recently released a sur·;ey of 135 private colleges, chosen as representatives of the private sertor. 
While the new evidence doesn't support the down-the-tube Cas­sandras, it's not especially rosy, either. In the latest survey, 34 percent of the institutions were judged to be losing ground in 1976-77 compared with 20 percent the previous year, although none in the survey thought closing was imminent. 
Enrollments in private colleges have risen gradually over the past several years, although not as much schools wanted. 
The number of graduate, profes­sional and part-time adult students has risen, recruiting offices have been beefed up, and more student money has been made available, primarily by the federal govern­ment. 
Elmhurst College in Illinois, for example, has attracted 280 Spa­nish-speaking adults to recently inaugurated courses taught off­campus in Chicago. Extension courses like this are popping up at many colleges. 
And Elmhurst has also stepped up recruiting. "We haven't gone to advertising," President Ivan Frick says, "but some schools have done that on billboards by airports and that kind of thing.'' 
Stephens College in Columbia, Mo., was once able to set aside an enviable $600,000 a year for a reserve building maintenance fund. 

A young female jogger finds a way to cool off as she dashes past Flanner Hall. [Photo by Mark Riccaj 
SG plans'awareness campaign' 
+ ·~an~eix~c~h~an~g;e~o~f~i;d;e;as~b~y~st~u;d~e~n~ts~~as~p~a~rt~of~th~e£i~r~c31a~s~sEe~s3:~·~s~a~id~F~r~.~~~~~S3~[co~nitiln~u;~ed~o~n~~e~9,1
. 
.~ 


i RICK WAKEMAN·JON ANDERSON i : AlAN WHITE·STEVE HOWE : : CHRIS SQUIRE : 
: featuring a spectacular light show : 
: and revolving stage in the round :i Friday Sept. 22 at 8:00 p.m. i • NOTRE DAME ACC • 
: Tickets: $8.5017.SO reserved and are now on sale :
+ 
at th'e Student Union and A.C.C. box offices and t

+ 
River Citv Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North t

+ 
1 mile South of the Stateline. • 


from ND and other colleges. The topics will include the relationship of the United States government with developing countries, the economic role of multi-national cooperations, moral obligations to starving people, and the programs at other schools about developing countries. 
Michael Roohan, Student Body Vice-President, explained student government's interest in the Awareness Campaign by pointing out that, "Within our lifetime, we are going to have to deal with at least ·some of these developing countries. The more we learn now, the better." 
The Film Festival, co-sponsored with the Center for Experiential Learning (CEL), begins on Sept. 18 and 19 with "Black and White in Color." "Nuer" and "The Last Grave at Dlmbaza" are scheduled for Sept. 24 and 25. All three films deal with Afrka. 
Those films shown in October are about Latin America, and an Asian focus comes in November. 
"Some faculty will use the films Don McNeil, director of CEL. "I hope that other students will benefit from them and seek out courses where they would learn more about developing countries." McNeil hopes that if response to the films is as good as the response to last year's "Harlan County," then there might be a film festival each semester about a social justice concern. 
Admittance to the films will be free. According to McNeil, the free admittance is made possible by donations from the College of Business Administration, the Thea-logy Department, the Physics De­partment, and the President's Of. flee. There are nine more group contributions of SSO or more still outstanding, and personal contri­butions of time and money have also been made. 
On the Oct. I0 kick-off day there will be a Mass for the developing 

countries and a four page Observer insert. Professors. international students, and others will write about problems and strengths of / developing countries. 
Her_!verybody.. -IT'S NEW!!! 



:l2? ·t·HE RAMROD 
-~«Dance floor 

•Pinball 
Pooltahle 

•Saturday 
Jam Sessions­come show your talent


* Pitchers only $2.0Q with this AD 
* 
so hurr.r to: 

THE RAMROD 511 S. Michi~an St. (Downtown) 
289-4709 
ntust be 21 _years 

•Weekends: Live Rock and Country Western Music 
•All drinks $1.00 *NO COVER CHARGE 
k••••••••·•••••••••••••••••••••••·~ ~~~:s:D~~~~~:S~~~S3~~S3~~~~~~~~S3~~S3~5:s:~~.-saiS'35s:DS'!cSa•csa•~ 

. .
....... 

-.!a.____t..hL&JIIeL.llllotllb&lsi!ElaML.rvll.laYLr_______Fr_ld_I'Y I sap te m b. r I, ~ 9 7 8 
............. 

Roemer stresses 'serious abuse' 
[continued from page 1] The opmton of student leaders attending the meeting with Roemer 
the past three days. University yesterday afternoon was that heProvost Timothy O'Meara and was surprised with the content of

Associate Provost Fr. Ferdinand Brown participated in later discus­sions. ~ 
The proposal called for a seven member board of student leaders, administrators and faculty. This Board would serve in an advisory 
I ,·. 
capacity to the Dean of Students and approve any directives prior to their issuance. The board would also review, approve,and ammend, as necessary, any other University 

~Rules and Regulations. 
Ultimate veto power of this board's actions would rest with University President Theodore Hesburgh. 
Measure. allows more input 
[continued from page 1] i11g toMcKcnna, because of the "explosive situation" on campus. He said that the committee recog­niled an alcohol problem on the campus. and agreed to help pro­mote responsible drinking. 

An initial proposal presented by the student committcee was quick­ly rejected by O'Meara, McKenna said. It provided for a seven­member hoard to review directives consisting of two' administrators, a rector and a faculty member, as well as the three student members. 
McKenna·· explained that the provost and the student committee 
"set the present measure up as an 
to endorse or reject.
alternative." 
The proposal called for any future 

Council sets up own 
student committee 
[continued from page 1] 
·\ 'I \ Roemer was apologetic concer­
,,{ ning the directive. "I had no
~.... 
I realization that it was going to 
~} cause the unrest that it did and I regret that. I hope that some good things will come out the discus­sions which we have had on the problem of alcohol abuse which will help to alleviate it," he said. Roemer stated that his intention in issuing the directive was "to clarity rules concerning alcohol which were already on the books and come down stronger in regard to alcohol abuse, especially in the stadium." Roemer further stated, "My ex­perience tells me that there is too much alcohol abuse on this campus and I'm determined to do some­thing about it. I've seen more frenetic drinking here than I've seen in any community in which I have Jived or worked. Part of it, of course, is that this is a younger population which is vigorous and more active, but there is still an alcohol abuse problem." Roemer refused to compare the alcohol situation of the Notre Dame campus to that on any other campus because of the lack of hard data on the subject. With regard to the regulations concerning drinking in the sta­dium, Roemer said, "Through all of this I have heard many good things about the regulations con­cerning drinking in the stadium. Many people, incJuding students, have told me that these rules are entirely proper and warranted.'' Roemer was quoted by one of the members of the student committee that met with him early yesterday afternoon as saying ''the directive was a unilateral decision on my part." Roemer was unavailable for comment. Along with McKenna and Rizzo, · other student leaders who met with Roemer incJuded Student Body Vice President Mike Roohan, HPC Chairman Chud. Delgrande, Flan­ner Hall President Tom Paese, St. Ed's Hall President Bill Vita and Dillon Hall President Marty Paul­sen. This group originally took to 

their proposal when first reading it. "We blew him out of his shorts," one of the student representatives stated. "Originally, Roemer only expected us to talk about student drinking on the Green Field." 
Later, during a break in the meeting with Roemer, McKenna called Hesburgh to request a meeting with him. According to McKenna, "Fr. Hesburgh and I talked generally about the matters at hand. I asked if we could meet with him and he said for us to meet with Timothy O'Meara. University 
Provost,  first  so  as  to  maintain  
chain  of  command  within  the  
Administration."  .  

McKenna then called O'Meara, 

~h~ "also gave his general thoughts on the matter. accordint to McKenna. "I then asked him if I could put him. on hold whiie I · explained his position to the people I was meeting with. When I t()ld him Dean Roemer was meeting with us, he invited all of us over to his office." 
It was from O'Meara's office that the student representatives came to the HPC meeting to present the tentative compromise. 
When McKenna arrived at the meeting he announced that another proposal had been written and generaliy agreed upon by both administration officials and student representatives attending the meeting in O'Meara's office. This was the proposal that HPC declined 
concerning the lack of student input into University policy. It was rejected. This is the issue the HPC deems important regarding the issuancae of the directive, accor­ding to the committee. 
Task Force organized 

The Student Government Task Force has been organized to give Notre Dame students who are interested in helping Student Gov­ernment a chance to take an active part in the organization, Mark Hutton, Task Force head, said Monday. 
The Task Force will primarily do research for the commissions of the McKenna-Roohan cabinet. How­ever, the structure of the group will remain flexible, allowing students to work closely with those projects in which they are particularly interested. 
"Much of the work wiJl involve distributing information and tabu­lating surveys. In addition, mem­bers will be assisting in the student government offices where needed," Hutton explained. 
He continued that members of 
the group will have a chance to 

become acquainted with commis­
sioners, to see how student govern­
ments work, and to provide needed 
it:JpUt into various projects. 
Interested students may leave their names with the student government office by calling 7668. In addition, the Task Force will have a booth at Activities Night on Monday at Stepan Center. 
Hunger Coalition holds meeting 
The World Hunger Coalition will hold a general membership meet: ing on Sunday at 7p.m. in the Little Theatre of LaFortune Student Cen­ter. The Wednesday night fasting program will begin next Wednes­day. Forms for persons wishing to directives issued by the Dean of Students which add new rules or regulations, or which interpret existing ones, to first be submitted to the Student Body President, Judicial Coordinator and HPC Chairman. They wilJ comment immediately on such directives to the Dean of Students. If there is any disagreement on such direc­tives. any two of the above indivi­duals can bring the directive to the Vice President of Student Affairs for resolution. If disagreement still exists, any two of the individuals can appeal the decision to the Provost and if necessary to the President. This procedure will terminate at October break. 

McKenna said the Campus Life Council will be responsible for dev_eloping a pcrmanen! plan to­deal with student input into Univer­sity rules and regulations. Del­grand'S..stressed the importance of student s demonstrating "respon­sible drinking this weekend so we can prove to the administration we can have social functions with responsible drinking." 
Pangborn Hall President Jose Marerro said that ·'this is the most assinine thing I've ever heard. I can't see them cracking down on keggers only. It makes no differ­ence what type of container t.he beer is in. In fact, if we have to use bottles and cans there will probably be a lot more litter since there are no dumpsters on the Green Field." 
McKenna stated that the Univer­sity wants student social functions held on the Green Field Saturday to be "orderly and responsible." 
Delgrande asked HPC members 
for their thoughts on what contri­ isn't all we can get.  In no way is  
buted  to the alcohol  problem  on  the temporary proposal  the  pro­ 
campus.  Responses included  re­ posal we can ultimately accept."  
marks about over-crowding, poor social life, limited social space and, . according to one hall president, a "generally repressive administra­tion."  Vita maintained that student in­terest and enthusiam can be sus­tained past the weekend. "We have the students with us on this. They can see the real issue here is  
McKenna commented that  "the  not alcohol but our rights to have  
student's reaction on this issue is  into University policy," he said.·  
the result of a number of other things that have been building up pressure for some time. This was more or less the straw that broke the camel's back."  The student representatives strongly emphasized to the HPC that this temporary agreement was a "big gain for students." According to Delgrande, "The  
"This issue won't be solved until  students were rr :1resented well and  
the students  are satisfied.  If not  this agreemc·ni should be seen as a  
dealt with quickly. it will explode again.·· Rizzo added.  ·  first step in g~:tting a greater voice in University p•.;licy."  

Pucse noted that "this proposal
fw"'"'<%%t::;:;;w;;;-??0';;:.(.«&:;;.<XiMM?Z&/i'-tW<?Wt74'&:*:::~~x.:;_;..~:m:"%f:J.Mf.? ..<, ·¥} 

u *The Observer 
:1 
~­~, 
~­

wishes to thank all of our subscribers for letting the spirit of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's into their homes. It is the paper's intention to serve all its readers. Therefore, we ask that any suggestions, criticisms, or complaints concerning content or delivery be made promptly. Please send all correspondence to: 
The Observer 


Circulation Dept. 
BoxQ 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
. '/. ;/ ...,.. '' --~ 




HOUSE 
Toll Road

BEER,WINE, LIQUOR·TO GO. 
~ -JC:lJ~·====== 
Clevelana \ \

HOT CARRY OUTS TOO! FOR PRE· GAME, Ed I \ 
:1 DURING THE CAME, OR POST·GAME. EASY ACCESS TO STADIUM. 
JOIN THE FESTIVITIES! CfLEBRATE WITH A ''FOOTBALL HIBALL''
Angela 

-ONLY AT THE OAR. HOUSE-' 
Phone 272·7818 U.S. 31 North 
Carry outs Bar and dancing till 3am 





..llllllllllilllliliiiiliiililllilillllllllllllllllillllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 



GREAT BOOKS··· GREAT GIFT IDEAS! 
~ 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A PORTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY AND CAMPUS Hardback $25.00 BY THOMAS J· SCHLERETH Paperback $7.95 

..,_ ... ~ ..·.· 
..·. 

.,. .. 
.to.
..
.. 
~-.... ·, 
. . . .., ..
~ 
~.... . 
. 
' 

Alcohol directive 
Union awai~s response 
by Ed Moran 
Staff Reporter 

Student Union Director Bill 
Roche doesn't know how Dean of 
Students James Roemer's recent 
alcohol directive will affect the 
Student Union's upcoming sche­
duled events. 
"It (the directive) was sprung on 
us," Roche stated. "We read 
about it in The Observer. It was 
never explained to us. Like the rest 
of the student body, we're totally in 
the dark.'' 
Roche was not admitted to a 
closed-door meeting Wednesday 
night where Roemer met with 
members of student government 
and an ad-hoc committee of the 
Hall Presidents Council. 
Students present at the meeting 
included Student Body President 
'Shops' planned 
[continued from page 7] Workshops are tentatively 
planned during the week of Jan. 29--Feb. 1. Students from each college will organize a presentation about how the disciplines in a given college pertain to one or more of the developing countries. Admini­strators, faculty, and students are welcome to attend any of the 
workshops, which will be coor­
dinated by Cathy Kelly. The Hunger Coaliton will also take 
· 1 · h 

an acttve roe m t e campaign, accrding to McKenna. McKenna urged anyone who has 
· h 1

suggesttons or w o wou d like to 
· f h · 
heIp m any aspect o t e campatgn
h d 

to contact t e stu ent government 
SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER 
THE BIOGRAPHY OF FRANK LEAHY By Weils Twombly $2.95 
WAKE UP THE ECHOES NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL By Ken Rappoport $8.95 

WE REMEMBER ROCKNE 
By McCallum & Costuer $7.95 


by Richard M. Cohen $6.95 
ONE FOR THE GIPPER ERA OF ARA 
by Patrick Chelland 7.95 by Tom Pagra with Bob Best $9.95 
•4 ..
•.. . 'f 
... ~ ":' "' 

..____________________________________ 
Andy McKenna, Student Body Vice President Mike Roohan, Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo, Hall President Council Chairman Chuck DelGrande, Flanner Hall President Tom Paese, and St. Ed's President Bill Vita. 
"There are some events which we (theStudent Union) sponsor which probably violate the direc­tive," Roche declared. "And since the Student Union is under the authority of the Office of Student Activities, which is under Dean Roemer, the directive does pertain
-
Senior Bar unaffected 
by alcohol directive 
by Mark Perry . Staff Reporter 

The University directive on alco­hoi released Monday should have little effect ·on the operation of the Senior Bar, according to Manager Mike Schlageter.
• • Since all of the students who come to Senior Bar are over 21, the 
directive should not hurt my busi· 
ness," he said. 

"In fact, business should be 
better, since keggers and partieswill be limited," he continued. 
"Students over who would
21 normally go to these wt.11 h ave to 
· .. 
come to the Senior Bar tnstead.

h ff ­
Perhaps the only ot ere ect wt11 
h

be on advertising, since t e bar can no longer use posters to advertise specials. "And it costs more to 
advertise in The Observer . , Schla­
to us.'' _ 
The Student Union sponsors numerous events where alcohol is consumed, such as the Bull Moose parties, Happy Hours, and various tailgatcrs. 
"We've always done these things in the past," Roche said. "Now we will have to wait and see what happens. Fortunately the decisions that concern these events don't have to be made in the near future." 
geter said. 
Since Indiana law already prohi­bits people drinking outside the grounds of the Senior Bar, the 
d" · · 1· · h
trecttve concerntng tquor m t e parking lots will also have no effect on the Senior Bar, Schlageter added. "We have to keep student 
h d
on t e groun s or we would lose 
1· " h ·d
our tcense, e sat .
Art Dept. stages .6 II h
I 8 S OW 

The faculty of the art department is staging its annual fall show in the O'Shaughnessy Hall Art Gallery on 
Sunday from 2 to 5 p.m. This is an annual event which features prints, paintings, and sculpture and helps introduce the art faculty to the 
academic community at large. 
THE NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK 
BEFORE. AND AFTER THE GAME Edited by Flo Yearedel $6.95 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL THROUGH THE YEARS By Gildea $12.95 
THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME 22 GREAT STORIES OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL Edited by Fred Katz $1.95 
.-. 

9
Frlday, September I, 1971 the observer 

The paths around the lakes are well-worn as joggers of all agu, types, and sizes jog to their hearts' content. [Photo by M uk Ricca) 
ROCKNE 
NOTRE DAME IDOL, COACHING GENIUS, CELEBRITY-­A LEGEND REVISITED 
By Brondfield $8.95 

THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCRAPBOOK 
.­
DIRECTIVES 
Frorrt rite Offlu of 
DEAN OF STUDENTS 
September 4, 1978 
ALCOHOL 

The alcohol regulations at the University will be en­
forced by the Dean of Students in all situations which come to his attention. We are insisting that Rectors, Assistant Rectors, and Resident Assistants enforce 
these alcohol regulations in and around their respective halls. Alcohol abuse at Notre Dame is a real problem. If people abuse alcohol and the alcohol regulations, strict sanctions will be imposed on the offenders as a means of insisting on sobriety and adherence to these 
regulations. 
On University Grounds, alcohol may be consumed only in licensed bars in accordance with appropriate Indiana laws. The University does not object to responsible consumption of alcohol in private residence rooms in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana which require_that a person be twenty-one years of age or older. Alcohol may not be consumed or carried in an open container on the grounds of the University, in common rooms, lounges, corridors, parking lots, the ACC, the Stadium, and all other buildings and grounds on University property except as specifically provided above. 
If a student drinks beer, wine, or other alcohol in the 
football stadium, a fine of $50 will be the minimum 
sanction. If the abuse is serious, separation from 
the community may be involved. The police and the 
ushers at all the gates have been instructed to inform 
all fans that they are not allowed to bring cans and 
bottles into the stadium. 

[J~
Roe~r 
Students 



·~ ' 
'.I• 

I. 
' 
\'·( 
',. ' 
:·
,, 
' ' 
·i 
seriously, folks 
Junk Telephone Calls 
~~~~~~~~~~~~artbuch~ld 
WASHINGTON · Whl'n the history of the 20th century is written a special place must be set aside for the invention of the junk telephone call. Many people have claimed credit for this great boon to mankind including Vladamir Gluck, with whom I visited in his spacious 
offices. 
t~u~~K~:o !~ke~u~k ca+~~~~~~~~ 
Calls," believes that as the postal 
service gets worse the telephone will replace the junk letter as a means of reaching every reluctant consumer in the country. 
"I'm not knocking junk mail," Gluck told me. "It served its purpose for a lpng time and we're all grateful to it. But you have to keep up with the· times. If anyone is to blame for us going to junk telephone calls it's the consumer." "How's that?" I asked. 
"The consumer did not treat our junk mail with enough respect. Many threw it in the wastepaper basket without even reading it. It was an outrage. We put on the envelopes that if they opened our letters they could win $1 million in prizes, trips to Europe and Hawaii, 
$150,000 homes, but people still 
~~t~~e!~ro~~:y ~;:?tedou~s s:~~ 
shabbily considering all the time 
and effort we put into attracting their attention. We had to figure out a way of getting into people's homes without being ignored." 
"And so you came up with the junk telephone call?" "The consumer left us no choice. The direct mail people decided that if people were going to throw away junk mail, our only option was to call them on the phone and speak to them directly." 
'<The Observer~ 

an independent newspaper serving the P.O. Box Q notre dame and saint mary's community Notre Dame, ln. 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries and letter:-s are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through 
letters, is encouraged. ' 
EDITORIAl BOARD Tony Pace Editor-in-.~hief Ste\oe Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley 
Jean Powley 
Ann Gales 
Mikei Lewis 
Diane Wilson 
Ray O'Brien 
Bryan Gruley Doug Christian 
Mardi Nevin John Tucker Bob Rudy Copy Editor Saint Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor Photo Editor 
Production Manager Business Manager Advertising Manager 

r-----------------------------------------------------­
~ Friday, September 8, 1978 J.. 
~"'lllliiiiiiiiiliijiiji.ij!ijiijiiijii,ijiiiiijiijiijiii!~iiiiiiiijiiii~~ii!iiii~jiiilij~~~--~A-,. 
·r ••·..: ,..,. , ,,~ ··~··· _.,.!."·" \.'-"" .·.r:o..:.
· 

"That was good thinking." I silO. 
"We used to have 100 people 
manning phones out there in the 
main room, but it was too expen­
sive and many of us were getting 
discouraged about it. But then 
someone invented a telephone-
calling computer. It was program­
med to talk to a consumer just 
like t ~uma: ~eing, and many peop e t oug t t ey were talking to 
a live person. The beauty of it was 
that the computer could work day and night and had the ability to call back the person when his line was busy or he was out. 
"With the breakthrough of the computer the telephone junk call was no longer a cottage industry·'' 
"I'll bet Alexander Graham Bell had no idea when he invented the telephone that it would save the junk mail business." 
''The beauty ofthe junk telephone call is that you can now get into somebody's home and he or she can't ignore you. People---have to answer their telephone ring be­cause they have no idea who is on the other end." 
"Don't they get mad when the phone rings and some computer on the other end is trying to sell them an encyclopedia?" 
''Some do, but the computer is programmed to expect rejection. It never loses its cool. It's even 
programmed to calm down those people who tell it off. But our research has revealed that many people with children, particularly teen-agers. have a great fear that when the phone rings it's going to bring bad news. So when they anxiously pick it up and discover it is only a company trying to sell them life insurance, they are so relieved that they'll. order the policy without thinking twice about it. One survey we took showed that 
87 percent of all telephone owners would rather get a junk telephone message than a call from one of their children after 10 o'clock at night." 
"There are people who are trying to outlaw junk telephone calls by claiming they are an invasion of privacy." 
Gluck said angrily, "If the Avon lady can knock on your door, there is no reason why a junk telephone call can't get you out of the 
bathtub." -c •. JA,s Angeles Times Syndicate, 
',•.\. ,":~ . .-.• "~· '.t ,h· ,· .•-1 ~ ,. •. , .. . "(..• 4 .,. .-~ ~ • ·;. ~· .~ •.• i ~··.-· ~ ,......~ ~ ·~ ~· .~ •.4 .• " ~ ~-• ..a-'t ~ l\..•_, ., " ' "T.. ~ . _ .•~ ,. ~r::t1-"' ~-· . . •'Tl -l ;,: ! :.. ' ; , i-~ .•:w-•;oc.;~· ~ -!-.'f'\r-i"~:"-c4t''!'IW}:!t .~ 1':l.-..~ 

-~1-x.,,· ~o··,-·.···1011 11l· ,··· ·.-~.· •• -.·.; •.••.. nanae:-.. ,·"-.arnt~,..._tg ?n,pit-tb.... ·.. -. · -. ·• ...-r,.:.. ....,~'ftiiiiLM.~t-·.... ~· .•~ 
Union Representation 
Dear Editor, Congratulations, Mr.Faccenda. At least now I have a clearer picture of the University's position and prior­ities in regaras to the relationship between its workers and the stu­dents. One of the goals of the university's financial and business departments should be to keep tuition and room-board costs within reason. Should this be the only
goal? "Within reason,'' according to the administration, calls ~or 1·n­
1' 

adequate health and · lension plans
r

for its workers, wages that are near 
Poverty level and an anti-union 
stance that refuses to allow its 
workers to organize. The Univer­
sity's actions have unmistakenly gone against Church teachings of PopesJohn and Paul and has forced the National Labor Relation Board to step in and issue violations 
against the university's practices 
Claiming tuition increases will go 
up does not justify the way the 
workers have been treated at Notre students against the workers in this 
f
matter o workers' rights is in­
1· M y

su tmg, r. Faccenda. ou also 
· · h 

seem to tn'l)tnuate t ar it's a choice
b t 1 · 

e ween stu( em ttHlion and the
k b'J" · 

wor ers a I tty to orgamze and
·d f f ·1
provt e or a amt}
F h · · · 
urt er, your paternahsttc attl­
d · · d" d · h

tu e ts In tcate m t e statement,
''N1 D d h
otre arne oe... not want t e
T " I

eamsters on camp'lS. t seems clear to me that it is up to the 
k d 

wor ers to etermme who shall
h h d

represent t em; not t e a minist­
· h

rat10n or t e student~. The
1'

eamstcr"). a very res?e. ctable group at th<? local 1. veL are the only
· h ' 

umon t a: respor.iJt>d when the groundskeepers im~'ctlly tried to organi?:e. / 
Mr. Fac-;.·t'ndt:......--··· attitude and sense of t''i:->:itie:· · · gJst me. But I realize. t."lat v•. _:·e only the spokesme., .·f a s. :1atic process at N.D. th~1: seem~ .v justify any means tha' .·Hemp,s to preserve the order of our sl-, ~ered, segre­
gated c.':!mr~~~~ity. . _ _ .. 



otball  
ND opens '78 season against Missouri Somewhere during the course of this season, whether It's at Notre Dame or Southern Cali­fornia or wherever, someone is going to have to take that title away from us. It's not Impossible, but It's going to be very tough to do. Notre Dame Coach Dan Devine by Tony Pace Ellis. Dansdill, a 6-4. 2.15-pound senior, has over Editor-in-Chief 1000 career yards as a Tiger back while Ellis, a 6-2 220-pound junior, saw action for the first time in The Missouri Tigers -a team that has a penchant 197iand gained 148 yards. for pulling big upsets -have the first shot at the When Bradley chooses to put the ball in the air, he Notre Dame title, when both teams kickoff their 1978 wiH most likely be looking for flanker back Leo football seasons tomorrow afternoon in Notre Dame Lewis. Lewis may be the most dangerous player on Stadium. the Missouri t~am. Over the past two seasons, The Tigers have changed greatly since they last Lewis-has had a total of 54 receptions for 667 yards played the Irish in 1972. (A game which the Irish and seven touchdowns. Lewis has also handled the won 30-26). AI Onofrio has been replaced at the Tiger's punt and kickoff returns. He has a career coaching helm by Warren Powers. Powers, a former average of 9. 7 yards per punt return and 20.6 yards Nebraska and Oakland Raiders defensive back, left a per kickoff return. Another man Bradley will look to similar post with Washington State University while often is tight end Kellen Winslow. The 6-6. 235 he still had some time remaining on his contract; he pound tight end is being boosted by the Missouri had to buy his way out of the WSU contract. He will sports information department as the premier tight pay $55,000 to WSU over the next three seasons. end in college football. Winslow was a concensus all Powers comes to a Missouri team which had an up Big Eight selection in 1977 as he hauled in 25 passes and down season in 1978. Their 4-7 record of last for a total of 358 yards and scored three touchdowns. year was one of their worst in recent memory, but The other tiger wideout is Bo Holloway. they did engineer one of the bigger upsets in the Big The Missouri offensive line has lost tackle James Taylor to the professional ranks, but three otherEight Conference by defeating the Colorado Buffaloes. starters are returning including center Pete Allard, a three time letterman. Allard will again be joined byThe Tiger offense is in the hands of sophomore junior guard Mark Jones and mammoth sophomore Phil Bradley. Bradley backed up the now graduated·. tackle Howard Richards. The 6-5 Richards won aPete Woods last season, and saw enough playing starting job at tackle early in his freshman season.time to complete 42 of 94 passes for 492 yards and ·-.;_~... '-tY The defensive strength of the Tigers is theirthree touchdowns. Bradley was also the third linebackers, Chris Garlich and Billy Bess. Bess, aleading ball carrier on last year's club gaining 532 6-3, 219senior, was second on the team in tackles inyards on 139 tries. Mizzou's leading rusher in 1977 1977 with 84, including seven stops for a total of 45was Earl Gant who ~arnered 769 yards on 144 carries. The 6-2, 207-pound senior had four 100-yard yards in losses. The 6-1, 215-pound senior Garlich '-~' ·:·-,,.'L-.~. ...... ...plus games in 1977. including a 157-yard effort was third on the team in tackles last season. Garlich against the University of Illinois. Gant should be has been named to the academic All-American Dave Huffman returns this year to bolster the offensive line for thejoined in the backfield eit~er Rich_ Dansdill or Gerry [continued on page 14) Irish. Irish hope to revenge 1972 upset minutes, Scott Hempel accounting hurt the Irish greatly as the Tigersby Mike Henry Dan Devine who, as Missouri Parseghian~ in 1963, Ara's final for the field goal. Then, early in ran roughshod over back-up tackleSports Writer athletic director and head coach, Northwestern outfit shocked the third period, Missouri fullback Kevin Nosbusch.arranged this torture for the Missouri, 23-12. Jim Harrison dahsed 41 yards to The first Missouri touchdownFor the last few years, the Tigers. As Devine jokes, "It got so Notre Dame traveled to the Irish 11. Two plays later Mike came on a 16-yard run on fourthMissouri Tigers have played a tough, I had to leave for Green <;olumbia in 1970 with a 4-0 slate, Farmer tossed a touchdown strike down by LeRoy Moss, setting abackbreaking schedule that rates Bay." (Just in time; Missouri was having averaged 41·6 victories to Mel Gray. Delirium reigned as pattern for the game as the Tigersas the toughest in the nation. 1-10 the year after Devine's de­against Northwestern, Purdue, the Irish trailed for the first time in went for and converted numerousBesides conference rivals parture.) Michigan State and Army. The  

Oklahoma, Nebraska and Colorado, this season they must play Ala­bama as well as this week's rival, the Fighting Irish. In recent campaigns they have faced Ohio State and USC, and there appears to be no letup in the future. 
Ironically, -it was Irish mentor Tigers were 2·3 and had lostDevine felt that Notre Dame tailback Joe Moore for the season.
would be a suitable challenge for The Irish, who were to lose only the the Tigers, and set up meetings at USC in the glop in Los Angeles,Columbia in 1970 and South Bend were heavy favorites. With the

in 1972, the only times the squads have met previously. The 1970 help of the largest crowd in the game was the second meeting state's history, Missouri held the between Devine and Ara Irish to 3-0 lead after thirty 
~c ~:,/: .~• 
·'-::.·-:: • 
.. 
Frldly, September I, 1971 
the season. 
Fortunately, Notre Dame righted themselves and tallied three touch­downs as quarterback Joe Theismann went IS for 24 for 209 yards. Fullback Bill Barz helped out with 62 yards on 17 carries and 56 yards on six pass receptions, and wide receiver Tom Gatewood and running back Ed Gulyas chipped in with scores. Im­pressed, Devine said afterword, "We were hoping Theismann would go to the bathroom or something.'' 
In 1972, Devine was leading the Green Bay Packers to a divisional title and AI Onofrio was confronted with the task of returning the Tigers to respectability. A 2-2 start for Missouri only served to create false optimism among their backers, since they lost their next game to Nebraska, 62-0. The Huskers, led by that season's Heisman Trophy winner, Johnny Rodgers, all but left the Tigers for dead, and Notre Dame, having averaged 33-7 wins in their first ·. four games, entered the home contest with supreme confidence bordering on lackadaisicalness. 
During that week's practice, an ominous event happened that was a foreshadowing of Saturday's game. A Sports 111ustrated photographer was taking shots of Notre Dame's massive freshman tackle, Steve Niehaus, to use for the cover of that week's issue. Two hours later, Niehaus had been felled with a knee injury that was to end his season. Whether or not you want to attribute Niehaus' injury to the Sports Illustrated jinx, the blow 
the observer 11 
fourth down opportunities. This go-for-broke attitude was the per­fect one for a team outmanned as Missouri obviously was. 
The Irish rallied to tie at 14-14 before Missouri embarked on an 80-yard drive consuming 7:43. 
Halfback Don Johnson tallied the go-ahead score with 1 :09 left as the Irish protested vainly that Johnson had fumbled before crossing the goal line. Films showed clearly that Johnson indeed had lost control, but the score stood and the 
Tigers had a great emotional boost entering the second half. 
Three consecutive Greg Hill chip shots made the count 30-14 as the 59,075 in the Stadium sat stunned. But sophomore quarterback Tom Clements never died easily during his Notre Dame tenure. He guided the Irish on two brilliant time­consuming marches, including one kept alive on a 36-yard strike on fourth down to Jim Roolf. Fullback Andy Huffs 12 yard blast made it 30-26 with four minutes left, but the Irish failed on two 2-point conversion attempts, and it was left to Missouri to run out the clock. 
Clements, who was seven for 17, threw an interception in the waning moments to complete the shocking upset. A destraught Parseghian muttered, "It was obvious that Missouri was well prepared. They executed almost perfectly, especi­ally on third and fourth downs." 
This game could be a key determinant in setting the tone for both team's seasons. Hopefully tomorrow's contest is the continua· tion of what will someday be regarded as a top intersectional rivalry. 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------~~---­


12 the observer Friday, September a, 1978 
''· 
! ~ 
l 
. ' 
.I :I 
.~ 
'.
'· 
' .
I 
•· 

Football Fever I  
Tri-captains prepare for title defense by Gregory Solman point." "That will help," Heavens captain," stressed Heavens, "but I his options has to be covered Sports Writer "Rick Slager put it best," added remarked, referring to the growing am enjoying this fall so far, along completely. That's why, for the Montana, "When he said that it is din outside the window. "Those with the extra responsibility." last three weeks, everybody's been in the position of Notre Dame fans will help. I know how they'll • • Every game will be concentrating on their responsibili­quarterback that one can most react--they'll back us. I can hear it demanding,'' Heavens remarked ty on options--on who covers who." quickly go from the penthouse to brewing up already. By Friday, it on this year's schedule and the •'The problem that we could run.be Montana the outhouse--and vice versa." will he wild!" opener against Missouri. "I think into," cautioned the Willowick, Someone once made the mistake After this Irish tri-captain came And for Irish running back our chances are real fine. We have Ohio, native, "is that we could be of comparing Irish quarterback Joe off the bench dramatically last year Jerome Heavens, any extra support to keep in mind that we are the overly agressive and anxious, caus­Mo-1tana with former Jet quarter­(after being third on the depth he can get will b~ much apprecia­National Champions only until ing us to overrun plays. As the back Joe Namath. After all, both charts at the beginning of the ted tomorrow against Missouri. tomorrow afternoon.'' year goes on, we will eventually ".Joes" arc from the same area of season) and leading the 1978 "It's going to be rough," "After that," Heavens smiled, settle down, but early in the season Pennsylvania. Both are flashy Fighting Irish to a National Champ­cautioned Heavens. "The Mis­"a whole new campaign starts." we have to concentrate and bewarv quarterbacks that led their respect­ionship, one might safely say that, souri defense has agressiveness ofthis." " ive teams to championships. Both for the moment at least, Joe and quickness. I wish you could Bob Golic on the season ahead: have made the cover of The Montana is enjoying life in the sec the films for yourself. I hate Bob Golic • • I know we can win: I know we Sporting News. . .why not Joe penthouse. However, this year, to make comparisons with other For an ordinary football player, will win." "Willy" Montana'! the rent in penthouses will be teams. but believe me, it will be the following statistics would tell One might think that Golic would The mistake that this someone higher, and for Montana, the first rough." most ofthe story. An All-American shy away from making predictions. made was not so much one of installment is due to be paid But for the Irish tri-captain, in two sports--the first since Especially after last winter, when a ft ,.., c.. ...... .. ~:t.....'...·.. · ·iii'> ·-~· ·.~ ......._ Joe Montana Jerome Heavens Bob Golic analogy, but of timing--for sitting tomorrow against Missouri. destined to become the top rusher "Moose" Krause; '1 1erofNotre comment he made to a Dallas in the room (when the comment "They've still got Calabrese, in Notre Dame history, things have Dame's Slll0 . tackle record reporter was played up heavily in was made) were other Irish stal­who was close to leading the not always been rough. In fact, with 146 last season; Most Valu­the Texas press the next day. warts Tom Domin and Chris conference in interceptions last Heavens' track reacord generally able D• ,. .Jiaver in the 1978 "Do you think that Notre Dame Haines who, as usual, were anxious year," outlined Montana. "They reads "smooth sailing." Cottot Bowl: a p~e-season Play­will have a good chance of defeat­to keep their buddy from getting a have a quick secondary, and they A consensus All-American from bo}' All A lilerican goes after Bob ing Texas?'' he was asked about swelled head. are big up front. They're a very Assumption High School in East St. Olsm ·-. career tackle record this the then impending Cotton Bowl. strong team.""Joe 'Wiliy'?" they piped in Louis, IL, Heavens had four tOO­year. Etcetera. Etcetera. "I know we can beat them,"Can the Irish look to repeat?cnison, "More like Joe 'Silly!" yard games his freshman season But Bob Golic is no ordinary replied Golic confidently, "in fact, I "We have to say 'yes', because for the Irish, when he led the teamJoe--whether he be known as football player, in any sense of the don't even think it will be close."if we say 'no', then we in rushing with 756 yards. A knee Willy or Silly--came quickly and word. In fact. knowing Bob Golic's And the statement became ahaven't got the confidence we need injury against Northwestern hisquietly back to earth. image. if asked their opinion on the headline the next day, and to maketo do it," stressed Montana. "We sophomore year limited his playing Irish defensive captain, the chanc­But ..Silly" is not a good word to matters worse, a headline in thehave a good team...a team that time to three games, but Heavens es are good that some women onexpress Joe Montana's thoughts morning newspaper of Coach Dancan be as good as it wants to be." sprang back last year to again lead campus might not confine theirthese days. In fact, the blond Devine.Whether it will be the penthouse the Irish in rushing with 994 yards comments to how well he plays onbomber is dead serious about the or the outhouse for Joe Montana is in 229 carries. The Wednesday before the Cottonthe field.task that lies ahead for he and the largely undetermined. Still, Joe Tomorrow against Missouri, Bowl, after a series of "not-so-hot" Irish this season. And rightfully so, for the off-the Montana has laurels upon which he Heavens needs only 85 yards to practices, Devine commented on-field Golic. The most importantAfter all, Joe Montana is no can rest. pass third-place Neil Warden on the Golic prediction before themelding of the personalities is seenlonger the "Monogahela Minute­Since Joe Montana has been. the all-time rushing list. Then, entire team.in Golic's perennial confidence,man,"--that is now ancient Irish playing the unique position known later on in the season, barring "Coach Devine started talkingleadership and a genuine happi­lore. Montana's got the whole as ''Notre Dame Quarterback," the injury, Heavens will reach the about how poorly we had beenness one can only find in someonegame to do his stuff now. Irish have only lost one game, that magic mark of 2,341 yards set by practicing, and then he said that ifdoing what he likes best.He'll be directing the drive from being the 1975 disappointment George Gipp from 1917 to 1920. we continued at our present pace,""day one" on. This will serve to against USC. "I'm not letting it pressure me," Bob Golic on the Missouri game: told Golic, "that my predictionsave him trips from the bench to commented Heavens: 'I ~won't "This is an extremely pivotal first would be correct. ..that it wouldn't the huddle--and add extra pressure stray away from my game plan." game. With the schedule we have, even be close--in favor of Texas!"Jerome Heavensto a job that characteristically Heavens, who loves being a slow start could hurt a lot more But all is well that ends well, andcarries enough as it is. Jerome Heavens sat on his bed captain, claims that the position is than it might have in the past.. in the world of college football,"Once a game has started," in his Fischer Hall room far from an extra responsibility, but that he .especially morale-wise. That's even part-time soothsayers cancommented Montana, "A quarter­the "madding crowd," gathered on has always perceived himself as a why we're concentrating so hard on become knowledgeable prophets.back and a Notre Dame quarter­the South Quad. It was the leader, and that the added respon­this first game." back in particular, reaches a point Wednesday before the first home sibility might actually help his • • Missouri has a good This one ended 38-10. -And Bob of so much pressure, that it can football game of the year: panty­performance. quarterback that can run," contin­Golic, for one, can hardly wait to can't get any worse beyond that raid night. "It's not all roses being ued Golic thoughtfully, "Each of predict the next one.  
They said it: 'I hate Notre Darnel' Calabrese on Montana: Warren Powers on ND: From what I've seen of him he puts the ball on the I'm not afraid to take this team to Notre Dame, or any Russ Calabrese on ND: money every time. But he's going to have to prove it on place in the country. Sure we have to play them: Notre I've always hated Notre the field, not in the newspapers. If we don't get a pass Dame, Alabama, Oklahoma but they have to play us too. Dame. I hate everything that rush Montana will be burning us. But people are fired up. Notre Dame has a great football team every year and has to do with Notre Dame. I Even if we don't win, they'll be awfully sore. certainly this one is no exception. They are still national hate Irish people. I just never champions until someone proves differently. liked the team and the expo­sure it got. I've never been to * * * Powers on surprises for ND:Indiana, either. Never wanted * * * Yeah, we have a surprise. We're going to run the Warren Powers on preparation:to go. But I'll have my wishbone! We've worked on executionhuddies (teammates) with me all week. By now we've gotthis time so it'll be OK. the timing down and these* Russ Calabrese * * players are ready to go. WeDan Devine on Missouri: are pretty healthy; there are aThey are going to be a tough opening opponent. This is few a people that are sore but*Powers on QB Phil Bradley: * * a very emotional game so you never no what to expect. they will be ready to go.He's come a1ong way and I'm confident he's ready like Look at the way Temple played against Penn State and you the rest of the players and is anxious to get in a game know Penn State has a lot more talent than Temple. And situation. Missouri has a lot more talent than Temple. Warren Powers  


,, 
,, 
' f'.'~ 
,., 

.. 


Frld1y, September I, 1971 the observer 


Football Fever I 
Ir?sh Coac~ D~ Devine can no longer depend on former greats Ross Browner and WiD ~·.. to bolster h1s defens1ve hue. [photo by John Calcutt] y ry 
'Giant-killers' 
Notorious Tigers to test Irish 
by Ray O'Brien teams in the nation last year. The some even feel this is too much to Sports Editor Missouri Athletic Department told ask. Powers they were dropping South-While people have marveled at 
Missouri's reputation as a "giant ern Cal and California from last Missouri's slate of games, some killer" is known nation wide. It is year's. schedule but they forgot to critics have accused Notre Dame no wonder that the Tigers have tell htm that Notre Dame and . of playing a padded schedule--but become one of the most notorious Alabama would be the replace-certainly not this year. The Irish upset teams in recent years since ments. have dropped lowly Northwestern they play a schedule that consis­Th~ other non-~onference games' from their schedule and replaced tently includes several of the top the Ttgers h~ve_ lt~e~ u~ are wit_h them with the Big Ten co-champ­teams in the country. If a team the Rebels of Mtsstsstppt and thetr ions in Michhmn goes into every game as the one "cushion" game against Illin-· · · underdog they are bound to grab ois, both at home. While Mississippi will not be the limelight with an occasional Warren Powers can also look back to harass the defending 
forward to his first interconference National champs, Missouri has
win. The Tigers are so successful rivalry games against Oklahoma never been a team to lay down because they continually turn out and Nebraska, both of which will be because they were facing a power­.500 or better records against the played on the road. house. There will also be no more cream of the crop. If the Tigers can Oklahoma State and Kansas leisurely games against Army, win more games than they lose this State are two conference opponents however, nor will Devine have to year everyone will be sure to hear that the Tigers handled easily last take another trip to Death Valley about it because Missouri boasts year but will not be played within and meet with the Clemson Tigers. the toughest schedule in the nation the confines of Fauron Field in But just when Notre Dame fans 1978. thought they had seen the last of
in 1978. The Tigers can thank Notre Dame Iowa State, Colorado and Kansas Johnny Majors at Pitt, he shows up Coach Dan Devine for their gruel­are the last three Big Eight teams with a young and hungry Tennes­
ing schedule since he was the on the slate and these will be see squad. · Athletic Director from 1967 until contested at home. Most Missouri With home game against Mis­1971 when most of these match­followers would settle for a 6-5 souri, Michigan, Purdue, Pitts­
ups were arranged. Greeting new finish, be happy with a 7-4 log and burgh and Tennessee. it is an Head Coach Warren Powers will be ecstatic over an 8-3 miracle year. excellent year to be in South Bend the number one-and two-ranked With the q~ality opponents ahead for the 1978 Notre Dame seasnn. 
'781rish seek to retain title 
by l.ou Severino improved on the previous year's Sports Writer record. The '47 squad's 9-0 record including shutouts over Nebraska. 
The Notre Dame football team Iowa, andNavyand a 27-7 triumphbegins a quest for a very rarely over Army. Despite all the achieved goal -consecutive nation­impressive statistics the Irish rolled al championships. as it meets up. the most astonishing fact about Missouri tomormw afternoon. The the 1947 team was that 42 playersAssociated Press, which began 
from this team went on to play-pro ranking the nation's gridiron 
football. Thedepth of this team can powers in 1952, have named only be seen in that Art Statuto. a fourth 

one school ·national champs in string center went on to play three consecutive years. The 1956 
years in the pros. Zeke O'Connor Oklahoma Sooners. coached by 
who failed to win a letter in 1947 

Bud Wilkinson hold that honor and was named to the College All-Star also maintain the record for the team. The st:trs of the '47 team 
longest winning streak in college 
read like a who's who of collegefootball history -47 games. That 
football. plavers like Johnn\' Lu­streak was broken bv Notre Dame jack. Emil Si.tko. Leon Hart. Ziggy 
on Nov. 16, 1957. at Norman, Czarboski, Bill Fischer and GeorgeOklahoma. Haltback Dick Lynch 
Connor. who later went on to a pro football 194R was an "off" vear tor Notrecareer with the New York Giants, Dame. A 14-14 tie with USCscored with less than four minutes prevented the Irish from capt .ring
remaining in the game to give N.D. 
a third straight national champion­the 7-0 upset victory. 

ship. NO ended up second in theAlthough Oklahoma is the onlv nation behind Mkhigan.

team ever to be voted number one The 1949 squad bounced backin both the AP and UPI polls in posting a I0-0 record and moreconsective years, several teams importantly capturing their thirdhave been n-amed national champs national championship in fourin one poll in consective vears. Six years. This club was captained bvteams have repeated as national Jim Martin and Leon Hart whosechamps in the AP poll including son Kevin will be the starting tight
Minnesota (1940-41 ). Army (1944­
end for coach Dan Devine's club

45), Notre Dame 1956-,57), Ala­
this season. The '49 Irish scored a

bama (1964-65). Nebraska (1970­
total of 360 points and recorded

71) and Oklahoma (1974-75). 
shutouts against Navy (40-0). andIn addition to Oklahoma in 1956. 

USC (32-0). The '46-'49 squads

only Texas in 1969-70 has repeated compiled a 39 game unbeatenin the UPI coaches poll. The string which included an amazing1946-49 Fighting Irish were one .of 
12 shutouts.

the most powerful squads in the history of college football over a After a look at the record book. four year period. During the 1946 one can see the difficulty in season. N.D. scored 271 points winning consecutive national while allowing only 24 and rolling championships. This is borne out up an 8-0-1 record. The Irish by the fact that of all the great defense recorded shutouts in five of college teams in the historv of the the nine games. The scoreless tic NCAA. onlv one. Oklaho~1a. has with Arnw at Yankee Stadium was been able to capture the coveted the only blemish on an otherwise crown in both wire service polls. in spotless championship. The next consecutive years. The 1978 Irish year, Coach Frank Leahy's squad are halfway to that goal however it accomplished even more -they will be a great challenge. 
Editor: Ray O'Brien Design: Debbie Dahrling, 
~hn Cclcutt 

Alumni and Friends of NOTRE DAME...~ ... ,. 
Now's your chancel II ~ ;.,fJ, 
*Th~_ Observe~_
subscribe to the 

Howard fire rouses th~~ dorms 
----------~ 

an independent student newspaper SE.'rving notre dame and st. mary's 
for only Sl0. per semester 
(520. per year) send payment to: 

THE OBSERVER, CIRCULATION t;.~;;::,~ BOXQ NOTRE DAME IND. 46556 
r
==::".:::.::--~-=..-...::-:

along with your name, address, and zip. 
SUNNYSIDE 
BEVERAGES 13~0 So"th B.nd Av•. 
2J4-UJ4 
2 blks. south o+ Ccu"P""~ [)Qi ly 8 • 4:30 PM Sat. 8·t0:3o ~M 

Pabst Blue Ribbon Pabst Extra Light 
Old style 8/c,~ 
Drewry's 

DRAFT TRUCK 
TAPPING EQUIPMENT 
CUPS AND ICE 
IS 8&R ONlY SOlD AT REJ'AIL 

\. 
14 the obserVer Friday, September 8, 1978 

Football FeverI  
Notre Dame attrac~s former Tiger coaches by Craig Chval have more friends in Missouri than would be a j!reat thrill to coach seesfit." says Johnson. "It would • • A lot of his success can be Sports Wrlter in any other state, and I'IJ have to under him.'' be hard for me to envision working attributed to the fact that he face them sometime if we Jose. Devine lists several qualities that for a head coach that does so much believes in sound fundamental It shouldn't come as much of a There's a little more pressure, he looks for in an assistant coach, of the work that the assistants feel football,'' offers Merv Johnson. surprise if a few of Notre Dame's !'laybe, than usual." including loyalty, intelligence. a they're not making a contribu­"Blocking and tackling win ball coaches become a little bit confus­willingness to work hard. good tion." games, and these things endure.As for preparing the Irish for the ed tomorrow when they see the character and honesty. "Technical There are always trends that comefirst game in defense of their 1977 Devine has a simple explanationMissouri Tigers come running knowledge is important, but it and go, but Coach Devine reaHzesNational Championship, the ex-Ti­for his tendency to give his aides a through the tunnel of Notre Dame doesn't rank up there real high that the basics are the mostgers notice nothing unusual. "This free reign. "I've always felt that Stadium. Because four members of because anyone that's intelligent important things. ••game is no different than any other when you hire a person. you should the Irish brain trust--head coach and hard-working can learn intri­Although all three go back quitebig game--and it will be a big trust him. football has become so Dan Devine and assistants Merv cate football. Another important a way with Devine, each wasgame," predicts Merv Johnson, technical that it's impossible for Johnson, Ron Toman and Jim area is the ability to teach, because surprised when the Irish donnedwho as Notre. Dame's assistant one coach to handle everything. You Johnson--played or coached for coachin,g is a teaching process.'' their green jerse~s for last year'shead coach, offensive coordinator have to give your assistants a Mizzou. Southern Cal game.and offensive line coach, is All three assistants mention certain amount of authority, be­"I'm really not a gtmmick man,Devine's right-hand man. Devine's ability to delegate author­cause if you don't, they won't feelAnd although Devine left and I don't think they'll go down inity as one of his biggest assets. needed, and the squad won't haveMissouri in 1972 to become general The three assistants give. a Notre Dame history as a gimmick,"Toman, who tutors Notre Dame's the proper respect for them."manager and head coach of the variety of reasons for deciding to says Devine, whose three-yearquarterbacks and receivers, per­Nfl's Green Bay Packers, and it's join Devine at Notre Dame. but Jim Another area where Devine record at Notre Dame is 28-7-0.haps puts it best when he says ofbeen fifteen years since any of the Johnson doesn't try to hide the fact earns the praise of his assistants ·'But I guess they would beDevine, "He lets a coach coach."assistants were directly involved in that Devine himself was a big was his basic coaching philosophy. surprised, because that's not mythe Missouri program. it won't be reason he moved from Indiana to Merv Johnson elaborates, '• Any "When he prepares a team, he way of preparing a team. What'sjust another game for the four. As Notre Dame last fall. ")played for assistant appreciates a coach who doesn't trv to be too fancy," says under the jersey is most impor­Merv Johnson puts it. "I probably Coach Devine, and I thought it will· let him do things the way he Jim Johnson. tant." ·For now, however, Devine is trying to erase from his memory 13NO's four Missouri coaches seasons at Missouri's helm that produced a 93-37-7 record. ''I'm trying to divorce my personal feelings from the game, and I think·~.. the pi avers have appreciated that," say~ Devine. · But the lrish coach has mentioned the last time the two~-·········.·'····'.''.~­teams met. In -1972, Devine's first~ 1 ." -~ year at Green Bay. Missouri shock­ed Notre Dame, 30-26. And nobody is more aware that those four men of just how capable the Tigers are of duplicating that effort. / I SeasonI opens [continued from page 11]Dan Devine Jim Johnston Merv Johnson Ron Toman second team each of the past two seasons. Missouri returns only twoRay O'Brien I players to its five-man defensive, line: Steve Hamilton and Jim Matthews. Ron Suda, Kurt Peterson and Tony Green should allImay be wrong, but • • • • see action on the front line for the Tigers. The leading player in the TigerThe Irish Eye secondary in Russ Calabrese, an all Big Eight selection for his play in Most co11e,ae football teams will get their first test this Saturday program Bobby Bowden has established in his two seasons at Florida 1977. Calabrese was quoted bywhile a handful 'of teams got the baiJ rolling last week. Alabama St. Last year the •Seminoles finished in the top twenty boasting a 10-2 UPI this week as saying "I've convincingly held their lock on the number one position by running record and a 40-17 victory over Texas Tech in the Tangerine Bowl. If always hated Notre Dame. I hate over, under and through Nebraska. Penn State kept things interesting the offense comes around you can expect a repeat of last year; if not everything that has to do with with a field goal in the last ten seconds to down upset-minded Temple. then Orangeman QB Bill Hurley (384 yds. vs. Penn St. in '77) will be Notre Dame. I hate Irish people."By the early looks of things we can expect more of the unexpected this credited with the upset. 0n a hunch I'll take the Seminoles by 6. The only other player in the weekend. '. secondary with any experience is Northwestern at Illinois: Rick Venturi doesn't know whether he should safety Tery Newman. California at Nebraska: The Cornhuskers limp home only to find a be happy or sad about inheriting only 8 starters from last year's 1-10 As for the Irish, there are eighttough California team waiting for them. Torn Osborne's team was team. That only win came against Illinois in the season finale (Venturi returning lettermen on offense,tough for about five minutes against Alabama but had no passing game was an assistant there). The Fighting Illini have nine starters back on including Heisman Trophy candi­for catch up ball. They won't have to catch up tomorrow as the Golden defense but no offense. This game opens the Big 10 season and should date Joe Montana and runningBears will show little offense as they drop their season opener by 8. be the most boring game of the year. Good try Wildcats but Illinois backs Vagas Ferguson and Jerome takes it by 3 (if anyone scores). Heavens. The only offensive areaTex~ A&M at Kansas: This year the Aggies might take over their which needs to be rebuilt is the Texan neighbor's role as the dark horse in the race for the National Oklahoma at Stanford: It smells like upset city on the west coast. right side of the line where guard Tit!~. Mike Mosley, George Woodard and Curtis Dickey should have a Oklahoma boasts four All-Americans and another awesome backfield Ernie Hughes and tackle Steve field day running through new Jayhawk Coach Bud Moore's defensive but its amazing what fumbles can do to a team. Stanford has the McDaniels have graduated alongline as they lead their team to a 14-point victory. defense but is missing Guy Benjamin's slingshot arm. They do have with All-American tight end Ken underrated halfback Darrin Nelson but that probably won't be enough Macafee. Senior Jim Hautrnan Rut'gers at Pe1111 State: The Scarlet Knights are trying to build a top­as Oklahoma grabs the ball and their season opener by 17. takes over Hughes' place at guardquality football program but are not going to shock, anyone this while junior Rob Martinovich weekend at Beaver Stadium. Joe Paterno should have his squad ready Tulane at Maryland: Tulane has 19 returning starters including Roch replaces McDaniels at tackle. to role after last wee~'s nightmare. Watch for Chuck Fusina to get on Hontas, the most accurate passer in the nation (63.4 percent in 1977). Kevin Hart, son of former Notre track as the Nittany Lions cruise to a 24.-point -Iaugher. They also have ex-Notre Darner Willard Browner. On the other hand Dame star and Heisman TrophyMaryland lost both their top notch QB's and are in jeopardy of winner Leon Hart, will try to fill Texas Tech at USC: The Red Raiders thought they would take the missing their first bowl game in six years. Despite the fact that the MacAfee's shoes at tight end. SWC last year and ended up 7-5. Now they must rebuild the entire Terrapins are playing in their backyard and have those excellent ACC The losses on defense were much offense and hope the defense can stand up to a young Trojan squad. refs calling the game, I'll pick the Green Wave to pull off an upset by 6. more significant as Messers,After an 8-4 season John Robinson's boys must be getting a little Browner, fry, Becker, Bradley and hungry. The youngsters at SC will do a lot of maturing this weekend as Missouri ~t Notre Dame: There is no doubt that the Tigers are one of Burgernier have picked up their they christen the 1978 season with a 14-Poiiil win. the finest upset teams of all-time; but this is the season opener, ND is sheepskins. Jay Case and John defending the National title and the Irish are playing in front of their Hankerd are the new defensive Miami 0. at Ball State: Most conferences decide their season winners loyal and now sober fans. Kellen Winslow and Leo Lewis are forces ends. Leroy Leopold, who has some time in November but the Mid-American title will be decided that will have to be dealt with but eventually that Green and Gold three career touchdowns on inter­tomorrow as the winner of this clash should take it all. Both schools offense is going to break free. If Devine's new defense can hold it will ception returns, replaces Becker at have new coaches and most of last year's starters back. It's just a be a rout. I MAY BE WRONG BUT I'LL PICK THE IRISH BY 12... linebacker. Dave Waymer, moved guess that Miami will be 3 points up in a high scoring contest.  

:···· ... 
.•, 
over from offense, and Tom Flynn
NOTE: Presently Alabama owns the longest winning streak in the 
are the new cornerbacks. 

UCLA at Wash: The defending PAC (now PAC 10) champs return 18 nation as ~braska became their eleventh straight victim. Notre Dame 
Another player who will be 
starters but they don't have an experienced QB. The Bruins have back can tie that mark with a victory against Missourri as the Crimson Tide 
missed is kicker Dave Reeve. 

Theotis Brown and James Owens and hopefully that will be enough. has off this weekend. Penn State is not far behind with nine 
Reeve holds most Notre Dame
consecutive wins going into this weekend's play. However, all these
Oddly enough this game will probably be won on the ground as the 
scoring and kicking marks. Junior 
Huskies defense will make the difference in their 6 point victory. streaks will be in jeopardy in the next two weeks as Penn State travels 
Joe Unis will handle the place­
to Ohio State next weekend while USC ventures to Alabama with 
ments and senior Chuck Male will 
Florida St. at Syracuse: Few people realize just how successful a Michigan visiting South Bend the following Saturday. 
kick off . 

............................................. 
-
the observer 15 

This Is the third and final part in a feature series exploring opportunities for volunteer service and social action at Notre Dame and beyond. Designs and layout were done by Maureen O'Brien, with the help of the 

Planting the Seed 
Observer staff. 
UCEJ: Year 2 • 
Clare Zimmerman 
The Committee on Education for Justice describes its goal as: "to pursue critical inquiry and exploration of the concept of justice, especially within the context of a Catholic university, and its intellectual and moral obligations, the acquisition of spe­cific skills to meet and work against the causes of injustice, and the implementation of these skills in witness and service both within and without the University." 
The Committee, chaired by Associate Professor of Economics Ken Jameson, is divided into five subcommittees with separate, functional goals. The sub­committees are Justice Education, Exper­
iential  Learning,  Communications  and  
Resources,  Administrative  Liaison  and  
Justice at Notre Dame.  

The Justice Education subcommittee, according to the Committee's ftrstreports, will try to provide additional resources for incorporating justice education into the framework of the university. It would like to provide accessible forums for questions of or about justice. 
The subcommittee on Experiential Learning's goal was paraphrased by mem­ber and Assoc. Prof. of Accountancy Ken Milani, "Basically, this subcommittee would like to open avenues for experiential situations, such as the Urban Plunge, which involve questions or problems of justice or social responsibility.'' 
According to Jameson, the Communi­cations and Resources subcommittee will 
•'serve to provide a communications network for the Uni­versity. It' seeks to keep dialogue open among all the University members so that people know what is happening." 
The Administrative Liaison subcommittee role was outlined by member and Asst. Dean in the College of Engineering William Berry. "Our job is to keep in touch with the University Administration to let them know what the Committee is doing and see what its reaction is." Also, Berry noted, • 'The subcommittee is trying to find funding so that the whole committee can carry on the work that it wants to do. For example, we would like to be able to establish a chair in the area of Education for Justice." 
The fifth subcommittee is Justice at Notre Dame. Jameson cites the role of this group as • • attempting to look at Notre Dame itself and facilitatiqg justice here by looking at specific issues. A main goal this year will be studying the question of affirmative 
action on campus." 

The Committee is comprised of members of the faculty and students from all the colleges in the University. This is essential when dealing with such an encompassing subject as justice. Berry explains this, 
•'The question is how to incorporate justice into education and life. A community as broad as the whole university must have somewhat nebulous goals because its subject permeates everything. Each person must develop a focus for himself. What I relate to in my course is different from someone in a different field.'' 
The presence of students on the commit­tee also adds an important dimension. Milani emphasizes this, ''In academic areas the professors have the expertise and the students primarily learn from· them. But this is an area where the faculty members do not have specific training. We're all basically neophytes bouncing our values around. So students can make a real, vital contribution. It is definitely not a question of credentials.'' _, Jameson feels that the Committee was successful in its undertakings last year. Their sponsorship of the Justice Teach-In, brown bag discussions and their activity in the groundskeepers issue are examples of their previous concerns. 
Jameson hopes that this year will see even greater growth of awareness of justice as an intellectual entity as well as concrete reality. He comments, "There is a wide-based concern about justice on cam­pus and in the future the Committee hopes to draw on this, obtaining the result of real community concern for justice issues.'' 
Theology student and Committee member Maureen O'Brien sums up the outlook of the Committee, "It is vital to think about the implications of justice in all areas of study. The question of justice is for people wherever they are at." 
Maureen O'Brien 
In presenting this three-part Observer feature on service and social­action opportunities at Notre Dame and beyond, I do not intend to '• give a comprehensive view of this many-sided topic." Further examination of these opportunities may be possible at some later date; for now, we have only scratched the surface, both in terms of the number and kind of programs described and viewpoints on those programs. However, names 'have been listed and contacts can be made. I hope that, as you begin to determine your priorities for the coming year, it has given you some additional options to consider. 
One may question whether the risk of the experience is worth it. Why give up a summer's earnings or precious study time to enter neighborhoods and agencies which you never saw before? Why become involved in the kinds of issues and problems that you usually read about in newspapers or hear preached on from pulpits, if such, activity does not interest you or fit in with career plans? Or--how can your effort 11lake a difference? People who are involved in social action are sometimes overwhelmed by the magnitude of the injustice and corruption they face; those who work one-to-one may be frustrated by their impotence when confronting simple, human suffering. The Hunger Coalition can never collect enough money at the dining halls to feed all the world's hungry people, and the old lady whom you visit in the nursing home will probably remain unhappy with her life there, despite all your efforts. 
As Henri Nouwen, Douglas Morrison, and Don McNeill reflected in last Decem­
ber's Sojourners magazine, we often use such rationales as these and to seek lives which are "ordinary and proper." But by doing so, • 'we lose touch with our inner brokenness as well as the brokenness of our fellow human beings.'' I suggest that, despite all the objections, despite the ever-present realities of injustice and suffering, we are obliged to take the risk of experiencing and working to alleviate the problems, both at this University and in the world at large, in order to become more conscientious and caring people while we are students here. As James T. Burtchaell reflected in lnsfaht: Notce Dame (Summer, 1968): "Part-time involvement in social action is needed because one does not 'post-pone' life while he is studying. At all times one should have some involvement like this. It would be pretty hard to educate someone to be humane unless he was so involved." And looking beyond the few years we spend as students, we also need to consider the role which service and social-action commitments will play as we build our lives. The decision is a personal one, and as Ginny Faust indicated in Part 2 of this series ("A Graduate's View"), it is subject to continual refinement and 
, change. 
Last spring, two other students and myself organized a program to introduce freshmen to opportunities for volunteer service and social action at Notre Dame. We presented it last week during Orienta­tion, and called it "Planting the Seed." That title expresses my purpose in this three-part series; I hope that a few seeds have been sown, or if already planted, that a bit of irrigation has been provided. 
,; ,. 
..,.,.. '( ' . 
_.,.: .
• I:
t= 

The Center for Experiential learning 
Julie Barry, a Notre Dame junior from Michigan City, usually spends her Chrls.t­mas vacation with her famUy and renewing hometown friendships. But this yelll' she spent some of the hoUdays in the inner-city of Chicago on an Urban Plunge. She visited schools, criminal trials, and parts of Chicago she had never seen. At first her plll'ents were reluctant to let her go, but their minds were changed when she returned enthusiastic about her exper· lences. These experiences, coupled with a "foUow-up" course she took In the spring semester ["The Unseen City," which gives governmental, economic, and theological perspectives} influenced Julle in her choice of a major in Economics. It also helped her to more clelll'ly focus her plans for after graduation and to approach that dme with a greater commitment to service. 
Julie's story is not unusual. She is one of a growing number of Notre Dame students who'have decided to remove themselves from familiar environs (despite possible parental objection) and cross over to see "how the other half lives." She observed, she asked questions, she thought -and through the experience and its academic 
f?llow~up, h~r future p~ans. .and en~i~~ 
fluenced. 

This process -experience, accompanied by reflection and leading to new insights and action -is the philosophy behind the Center for Experiential Learning. The CEL organized in August, 1977. is one of several groups associated with the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry; it is located in Room 1110 of the Memorial Library. Yet it is significantly different from the other groups, which are mainly involved in the continuing education of people in ministry. The CELis specifically 
concerned  with  the  Notre  Dame  
community  ,  and  states  its  three  major  
goals as follows:  
-to  collaborate  with  others  (on  and  

off-campus) in providing comprehensive programs of experiential learning 
-to encourage and facilitate the quest for justice among students, faculty, admin­istrators, and alumni 
-to research, evaluate, and share Notre Dame models of experiential justice edu­cation. . The small CEL staff, directed by Don McNeill, C.S.C., and including Mary Ann Roemer, Nancy Schulz, and Mary Hawley, works with other campus groups to co-!'ponsor various programs and projects qperation of the Center, and may result in other groups eventually assuming full responsibility for certain projects. 
The three goals are translated by the CEL into four main areas of concentration. The first of these. called"Horizons for Justice" designates a variety of experiential-learning programs. On campus, it spon­sors films dealing with social problems and justice issues, like last year's "Harlan County, U.S.A.," and the upcoming Third World Film Festival (co-sponsored with Student Government and others). The CEL also works with small task forces to develop audio-visual presentations for use by halls and classes. Off-campus programs include the new "South Bend-Mishawaka Horizons,'' a cultural and historical intro­duction to those communities, similar in concept to last year's Neighborhood Roots; the Urban Plunge program, growing in popularity and participation each year; and the LAPEL program (described by Mary Hawley in Part 1 of this series). 
The second area of concentration is academic courses based on experiential learning. These include "The Unseen City," the interdisciplinary follow-up to Urban Plunge; "Theology and Community Service," providing the opportunity for 
and CILA summer-project participants. 
"Collaboration with faculty, staff, and students" is the CEL's third emphasis, and it takes shape in events like the Weekend of Reflection, an opportunity for faculty and spouses to come to grips with ideas of faith in relation to justiQC and to their Notre Dame experience. The CEL also collaborates in various experien­tial-learning programs with groups like CILA and the University Committee on Education for Justice. 
Finally, the CEL seeks methods to evaluate the progress of justice education, at Notre Dame and other schools. It enlists the aid of statistical and social-science experts in this effort. 
It is an impressive list of projects for one office after one year of existence. The CEL can run its programs only by enlisting the cooperation of outside individuals and groups. Julie, now an officer in CILA and others like her are often willing volunteers: having themselves had rewarding ex­periences in CEL programs, they can then help to give others the same opportunity. And thus the CEL's effectiveness now is a determinant of its effectiveness in the future. And with the activities planned for this year, especially "Horizons" and the 

in a~cordance ~~~ , ~~~~e .io~l~: . Sue~ .. , ,fpr91al~~d. r~9~~ppn. P,n vi.sit~ to.~ ..~~si~k._., .-,Tft~<i ~\'r.orld _f,'~,_fJ! _~~-~~vaJ ~--~e .:·~ft' s ·'• P.~·., ,, . 
hfe-ptrspecttve were stgntftcanfi}.1n~ .· .. cre~~ty._·._:ojlpf9t<t~IQq_;s '<Ti.~. m. the hom~;:and iU"''I.~i-reJ4ID&)_(or ~Am. fu~J$._ru11o£'6tQ.JQ.~c•• :--7 .. -.,.-•••. _, 1 ., .• 
t,t..•t~'l. '"· ~·.; .;;~.:~ ~.:. ,.·~-.t ·~ :,~·t--·.,·:··J .. .'!-'t-~~ •.' ·"""" ~ ..;,·.~ · •.· • it'.~ ..._,1. :t·"-•::::'"1"" ~. ~-~ t ·. 'l.-.~.~1 .&..i. #'~1' ...........:.-.l•.t.t~-.j~~~ l~J.)i.I.I..L:"{~HJ~H.JJ._\:~Hh!rJ lt :, \ '"' o.·i:L·!i.. • ..-.'" ~..3.... •.:. 1 •·
~~~~..:i~.~::a-:.4.:Wt.•.-.•M...._.._~&o..,. .a'& .... ,. ~'L~-~~-..ao. •··•~~~~o .._. ,_"'!.'tr...Vio ~ .Ji.~ '1.-..•,.,.,,,...-,_,..'a. :to,..,. :.. •.-•....-:.~-"' ~--...~ .~.. -.,..~..., ... .,. __ ., •. 
.. ... '" .. 


.. 
.. . . 

~. . . 
l I I Friday, September I, 1978
18 the observer 

' Waddick sets up business forum 
by Margaret Burke ness or MBA programs. to establish a committee to draft a A meeting will be set up in the constitution and bylaws . A business forum is being set up near future which will feature a This is not the first such business
.! 
nder the direction fo Dean Robert panel discussion composed of rep­forum the College of Arts and waddick of the College of Arts resentatives from the placement Letters has established. The ·1d Letters. The forum will be bureau, the MBA program and the previous one dissolved into a type <'signed to cater to students with College of Arts and Letters. In the of unofficial honor society, accord­terest in eithC1' careers in busi-following meetings Wad dick plans ing to Waddick. when students in 
Pet cemeteries increase 
ROSEVILLE • Minn.  [AP}­ The  
tately  granite  monuments,  sur­ 
;)unded by flowers in the well-kept  
emetery,  are  etched  with  the  
ames  of  loved  ones:  Buster,  
ueenie, Fluffy, Yo-Yo,.Cuddles.  
At Feist's Pet Cemetery, visitors  
.orne  year-round  to  pay  their  
espects  to  deceased  dogs,  cats,  
irds, hamsters, rabbits,  skunks,  
10nkeys and even a donkey,  
·We serve all different kinds of  
~ople  , young and old, well-tO-do  
;ci  very  poor,''  said  Ken  
:-lbyanske 67, the cemetery care­ 
t  tker. ·'We had one case where an  
I t \•  ntire family, 16 people, attended a ·rvice for a miniature collie." i=-'abyanske, whose duties include  
lling plots, digging graves and  
1aintaining  the  grounds,  says  
·usiness has picked up in  recent  
.>ars.  Plots  start  at  S60 each,  
·~pending on the size of the pet.  
Plain wood boxes  are  provided  
1r  burial,  but  some  pet  owners  
Jend up to Sl,OOO for small coffins  
nd expensive monuments.  
'People  feel  that  after  all  the  
1ppiness their  pet  has  brought  
:em, burying it here is  one last  
·ing th~y  can  do for their pet,"  
· abyanske said.  
Ray  Schoenrock,  secretary  of  
Sl'hoenrock  Monuments  in  St.  
I  0 ·wl, said some  et owners come in  

with sketches of their animals to carve on markers. Other markers are inset with color photos of the deceased animal, under plexiglass. ''The emotion is there particularly 
• with dogs " 
·he said. "We had one ta'<ly come in with a drawing of a purring cat to put on a $600 monument. She paid more for that than for her hus­band's marker." 
There are now 560 pet cemeteries in the United States and the number is growing, says Pat Blosser, executive director of the National Association of Pet Cemeteries in Chicago. 
"When I was a child we always buried pets in the back yard, but now society is so transient that people don't feel as secure doing that any more," she said. "The old family homestead no longer exists. 
''And if they just call someone to take their pet away, they are never sure just what happened to it-if it ended up in the city dump or the rendering plant or what.'' 
Another factor, Mrs. Blosser feels, is today's smaller families. "Children don't come as fast as they used to so there is just more love available to be showered on a pet," she said. 
The tombstones express the deep feelings of the petowners: "The Pomeroys' Precious Guinea Pigs, Cotton and Krinken. You taught us so much about love," or "Josie, 1962 to 1977, The sunshine of our lives." 
the '60's were more interested in areas of social welfare rather than bigh business. Now Waddick sees the business forum as necessary because "more and more students are going into the business world after graduation." There is alS'o an increasing number of Arts and Letters students going into MBA programs. 
The business forum will provide an opportunity for employers to address Art and Letters students. While the forum would be immedi­ately useful for seniors interested in business careers, Waddick ~­pecially wants to establish a base of undergraduates to fully expose and 
prepare them for possible business careers. 
Pre-Law Society organizes 
Past and prospective members of the Pre-Law Society are invited to attend an organizational meeting to be held in the Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. on Monday. 
This meeting will feature Thomas Waddick, Assistant Dean of the college of arts and letters will address the concerns of freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors. 

;, 1 
, I ~ i 
·t 
I 
j 
I 
I 
< 
l 
I ) 
~ 
,( 
~ ~ 
t 
I 
1 
1 I I I I I 
,,,, 
•!J 
!
il 
j j 
~ ~ 
·i 
' 
~! 
:' 

l ~I 
~ 

~ 
' 
( 
~ 
I jI 
I~ 
' 
I 
l 
1 
l 1 
I 
1 
•i 

I 
j 
{ i 
·I 

I \ 
f 
l 
l 
J 
~ 

-;: ------;w..-o-;~~-~~L::tit:~~~--=-~----~:i....-•.IWI-miiiii_lllli_lllil_•_li_lli_~v~-p.~<i.,:Jr~·~t~~:=-..a.t·liirr-~~-·--n-~on~.;~MP~...._...••,.,.,.._._..,.. ,.,.·.;,w~ ... ----; ;n,-.·.--..-••~----:;~;-::-:~ ~­
-c 

:~ 
'i 
:..: ~ 

.... .. ; . ,.... 
""-. _..........· 


Friday, September I, 1971 
the obsanar 17 

New women's club stresses 'women's space' 
Lung Association heads anti-choking campaign 
NEW YORK [AP] -The most common cause of accide.1tal death in the home for children under 6 is inhaling of foreign objects, accor­ding the the American Lung Asoci­ation which, is spearheading a campaign against such accidents that kill about 2000 children a year in the United States. 
''A foreign object can be food such as crisp bacon, bits of carrot, raising or apple peals," Say.s Dr. Lewis Clayton, medical affairs di­rector of the association. "Or it can be smltlt household objects--safety pins, coins. beads. buttons--that should be kept out of reach of young ··hildren, ,.. h•' have a natural inclina·:ion to p : things in their mouths.'' ' 
Wh··n something goes down "the wrong wav. ·· '.~ften ~he victim coughs and spits out the object, Dr. Clayton explains. But sometim.es the result is choking. loss of breath, even death. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tions. '"Peanuts are a particular 

NOTRE DAME .APARTMENTS 
Close to Campus 
Apartments still auailab/e 

2 bedrooms-Completely Furnished Complete Kitchen and Dining Room 
· Up to 4 students all: 2 3-6363 or 234-6647 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ciansacroHthecoun~ywill~sobe
alerted. A guide has been pre­pared to help day-care and nursery school teachers teach very young children how to breathe, what to put in their mouths, how and waht to chew and how to swallow carefully. 
NORTHAMPTON, Ma•s. [AP)· 
It's a women's club all right, but 
you won't find anyone at the 
Common Woman wearing white 
gloves or planning the upcoming 
town social. 
Although club members have been known to sip tea-albeit an organic blend-the Common Woman is a long way from the female service organizations and ladies' auxiliary groups that have flourished in America over the past 100 years. 
This downtown Northampton club is a place for women who are interested in feminism and veget­arianism. So far, about 500 have become members. 
"We wanted to provide a space where women could feel comfort­able in a feminist atmosphere," said Holly, a former English gra-
Pre Game Off Campus Tail Gate Party 
Starting at 10 am until opening kick off BLOODY MARY SPECIALS 50$ a drink 90* doubles 
Even if the danger to life is not immediate, he adds, a foreign object can be inhaled and lodge in the lung. There it can cause long-term damage including infec­tion or a disease caiJed bronchiec­tasis, which results in a bulge or pocket in the bronchial tube and which sometimes requires surgery. 
"The important fact is, most sq.ch inhaling of foreign objects can be prevented. Simple precautions-­prevention--can usually avoid treat­men:, which can be complicated,'' sa:vs Dr. Clayton. who offers ~hese suggestiono;: 
--Wait for a doctor's go-ahead before !>ia -;·1g solid .roods for a child. 
--Mind .,.,ur table •ilanners: It is_ more th._ n a nice:., of etiquette. Children should be taught to eat slowly, chew thoroughly, swallow carefully. not talk with their mouths full of food. and not to eat hazard. If chewed carefully and swallowed correctly, they are heal­thy and nutritious, but a child can choke on a peanut. If a peanut lodges in the lung, the vegetable oil it contains can cause infection. 

"Potato chips, bits of cookies, all pose a threat," he adds. "Children can be fun at parties, but be careful. Why not hire a babysitter just to follow the toddlers around and keep them out d trouble?" 
In connection with the campaign, local lung associations wiU have available a pamphlet, "Keep Your Child From Choking." Pediatri­while running, playing, or lying down. 
--Put purses and sewing kits out of the way. Keep small objects off low surfaces, out of the reach of small grasping hands. 
--Examine toys. Look out for small parts that might break, knobs that could faiJ off, eyes of stuffed animals, the wheels of tiny cars. 
--Set a good example. Don't place pins or other objects between your lips. 
Th.: Amerk ,n.~.ung Association is 
gearing :. -: '· ·;piration of foreign 
objecrq" :;icr· 'o1 •he holiday 
season--E:1ilm ~en and its "trick or 
treat" te:;--r<oo-., Thanksgiving, 
Christmas a'1d New Year's party 
times vith ; 'a~-gues~s and loaded _coffee tables. 
"Keep toddlers away from the coffee table.'' Dr. Clayton cau­
duate student and one of the 
club's founders. 
Two years ago the founders knew 
they wanted to open a restaurant 
for women. That idea, however, 
caused some problems. 
"We discovered that as a public 
facility, we could not legally ex­
clude men," Molly another charter 
member, explained. 
"We could have put a sign on the 
door asking men not to come in. 
We could have memorized a rap 
about 'women's space' and given it 
to each man who walked in the 
door.'' 
"But," said Holly, "we didn't want to think of the space as one where men are excluded. Instead, it's one where all women can be included." 
The women still regard outsiders with some suspicion-they say news media coverage has focused on their alleged anti-male bias-and they asked that their last names not be used. 
Club status has drawbacks. "Because we're non-profit, we can't advertise," commented Holly. "And because we can't advertise, we are limited in the ways we can reach out to women." 
The club began in December 1976, after a group of nine women raised $20,000. They taught them­selves the restaurant business, built tables and chairs and reno­vated their modest, two-story wooden building. 
From the outset, the women have been committed to what they call "alternative economics." As often as possible, they buy food from cooperatives. 
The women say they'll channel any profits back into the business or into other women's projects. The Common Woman now takes in enough for the women to pay themselves "almost a living wage.'' 
The name comes from the poetry 

~-• ......... ::.. 
~~~ 
-< 
~--.,~ 

,_,.·. 
,.,, 

~ f: 
:~' 
~;~ 
... 
;;,. 

Dillon Hall responds to Roamer and alludes to National Lampoon's Animal House. (Photo by Mark Ricca] 
of feminist Judy Grahn: "The common woman is common as the best of bread and will rise and will become strong." 
Club founders set out to. build a restaurant without building a hier­archy. It was a new experience for them-and a disconcerting one for some people whom they dealt outside the collective. 
''During the closing of our pro­perty, I watched the bank president looking as if he was crossing a huge intersection without a traffic 
~light," Molly said. "He was nodding at each of us, not knowing who to maintain eye contact with." 
None of the original nine is still in the group. The Common Woman is now run by four women, one of whom is Kate, a craftswoman who explained why the collective's memvership changes: 
"i've been here since February 1977, and I'll probably stay for about another year, When you're involved with something like this, you're involved intensely. It's hard to keep up that kind of energy." 
The dining style at the Common Woman is casual. Patrons place their own orders and help clean the tables. Meals are moderately priced and include quiches, omelettes, crepes and other vege­tarian dishes. 
In an attempt to reach a mot'e traditional type of woman, dinners have been held at the Common Woman for female therapists and scientists. These comparatively elegant affairs have attracted many women who otherwise would never come to the club. . 
The collective's approach seems radical to some. The results, said Holly, are worth it: •This is women helping women. For me, one of the most exciting things that's happened at Common Woman is that we've aU learned skills to pass on to other women." 
.. 
.. ,...... 


-~ . 
,-~-. 


Friday, September 8, 1978
the observer 

1 
Scientists investigate'baby recipes' 
l 
Welcome Back ND SSMC Students 

Keg Party Package Freewith each keg purchase 


1.171bs of ice 
2.50 cups 3.tapper rental 4.tub rental 
niles mich. wayne's 
stateline line rd. 
~···-c.
..c 
t: 

I Wayne's
0 
c: 


call us to check our low low prices 684·4950 open 9 to midnight mon-sat open 12 to midnight sunday 
' . 
STATELINE ROAD IN NILES ONE BLOCK EAST OF US 31
!. I 
------------------------------------. -------­
-·~-----------·---------------------------. --------------·--------­
--------------~-~--------------------------------~ 

WASHINGTON [AP] • Want a
,l i 
boy baby? Or a girl?I' Scientists are working on baby
j 
recipes, known as sex control.

I 
I designed to improve the odds of choosing your child's sex. But before painting the kid's 
II bedroom pink or blue, take note: 
I I Even if you follow the unromantic 
I ~ 
directions--the most reliable in­

I 
volve artificial insemination--theI results are far from foolproof.
I : 
I I And so far, the boy recipe has 
I I been the most successful. 
I ; "Sex selection has virtually no
i i 
I credibility," says Dr. Ronald Erics­I c;on, a reproductive physiologist inI ~ Sausalito, Calif., who has patented one technique for influencing the
I· 
sex of babies. 

d 
t • ··We don't claim to have a method that is absolute,'' said Ericsson,
I ; 
. I who did post-doctoral work in cndicrinology at the University of Wisconsin. "We're dealing in biology. not witchcraft." 
Basically, there are three tech­niques to select a child's sex: 
..The do-it-yourself method, re­quiring timing, chemistry and gym­nasrics. It calls for intercourse in specific positions at specified times during the woman's menstrual cycle and douching with baking soda for a boy or white vinegar for a girl. Fopular and gadget-free, it is considered ineffective by most scientists. --Sperm separation, the. met~od patented by Ericsson, mvolvmg separation of the Y chromosome male-bearing sperm from the X chromosome female-bearing sperm. After the .filt~rin~ pr~ess is completed, arttfictal msemma­tion in required. 
--Selective abortion, a controver­sial method in which amniotic fluid is taken from a woman's uterus during the fourth month of preg­nancy to test for the sex of the fetus. If the sex is "wrong," an abortion can be performed. Most doctors oppose this method. 
Dr. Paul Dmowski, a Chicago endocrinologist and gynecologist researching sperm separation, says eight out of ten of his patients who used Ericsson's technique to have boys were successful. Dmowski said he thinks o,ne of the other two women became pregnant by nat­ural intercourse and the other couple had trouble with the sperm separation. 

"We are not really able to guarantee in any way the outcome of pregnancy," said Dmowski, director of the fertility unit at Chicago's Michael Reese Hospital. "We can increase the chances from SO percent . which is natural to 75-to-80 percent. But if a couple is not willing to assume the risk of another female child, I do not accept them as patients." 
Dmowski said work is being done to separate the female-bearing sperm, but the procedure is more difficult. 
"Some methods are confirmed," he said. "But as far as I know, nobody is involved in the clinical application for improving the chances for a female child." 
Dmowski said the main cost for his sex-selection patients is airfare to Chicago and a hotel room for a week . 
NOW! DOLBY STEREO 2:00-4:30· 7:00-9: IS 
"There are so.me office expenses, but there is no charge for the procedure because it is expert­mental," he said. 
To hear Dmowski tell it, one benefit of selecting the sex of the unborn child is that is could reduce the size of families. He says many couples increase their fami­lies by continuing to try for the child's sex of their choice. 
A problem with do-it-yourself is that two doctors who did much of the research on this method have come up with differing conclusions, according to the Population Re­ference Bureau Inc. of Washing­ton. 
In a pamphlet titled "Boys or Girls? Parents' Preferences and Sex Control," the bureau says Dr. Rodrigo Guerrero V, who has completed a fellowship at Harvard University's School of Public Health and is associated with the Universidad Del Valle, Cali, Co­lumbia, suggests that a couple improves its chances for a boy by having intercourse six to nine days 
NOW! SAT. & SUN 11:30-3:30-5:30-7:30-9:30 before ovulation. 
On the other hand, Dr. Landrum Shettles at Gifford Memorial Hos­pital in Randolph, Vt.. suggests a boy is most likely when a couple has intercourse at ovulation. 
Another problem with do-it-your­self is that ways to determine when ovulation occurs--such as taking the woman's temperature-­are not reliable. 
"When ovulation occurs .. . is almost impossible to detemine exactly,'' said Dr. Robert Glass, a gynecologist who specializes in fertility at the University of Cali­fornia. 
Glass said he would advise couples interested in selecting their child's sex to wait a few years to see if Ericsson's technique is improved. "I counsel couples not to rush into it," he said. 
Social scientists raise important psychological and sociological questions about sex selection. 
Referring to studies showing that more couples prefer boys to girls, N.mcy E. Williamson writes: "It is 
EXTRA MIDNITE SHOWS FRIDAY & SATURDAY 1:30-3:40-5:45-7:50-10-12:00 
likely that .ex cc ttrol would be used more often to get boys than girls and ·that, if used, the male sex ratio would rise in some coun­tries.'' 
Dr. Ericsson said: "Like every­thing else, this may be misused. But it is something that society will have to come to terms with." 
Ericsson, who is now doing re­search in France with 6000 cows, said work on human sex selection is at the bottom of his priority list. 
Why? 

Because, said Ericsson, "Cows don't sue." 
Move cars! 
Students with cars in parking lot D-2 are reminded that they must move their cars to Green Field by 8 
a.m. tomorrow, because of the Missouri game. If the cars are not moved, they will be towed away at 
the  owner's  expense,  Dean  of  
Students  James  Roemer  
announc~d.  

NOW! 2:15-4:45 7:15-9:30 

_______ t ... ....... ............_
h~aL-.;o bs....,eLLrver __;;1~9 


Stereo Special 
¥... 

Yes! You can afford a good stereo. Just about everybody would like to have a stereo system to go off to school with. Unfortunately, many of you will figure that, with $300 to $400 to spend, you won't be able to afford a good "component" stereo system. So you might settle for an all-in-one compact system from the local department or appliance store. At The Sound Room, we don't want that to happen. We don't feel you should have to compromise so we have made a large commit­ment to some very well-known manufacturers so we can offer you an absolutely fantastic component stereo system for just under $400.00. And, with our shrinking dollar in the world money market, a system like this one, priced at just $399.00, is an almost unbeatabl-e value. We don't figure they'll last long! 

Exceptional speakers for a system under $400°0 Probably the components that will grab you right away in this system are the 12 inch, three-way Db loudspeakers. We've never offered a system priced this low with this large a speaker system. They're more than enough for any dorm room or apartment. Powering them is an all-new JRS61 stereo AM/FM receiver from JVC. It's got plenty of power to play the big, efficient Db speakers at thundering loudness levels if you want. And, for easy,. reliable and convenient record playing, there's an all new Garrard record changer (with new S-shaped tonearm). The Garrard comes completely assembled and inspected with base, dust cover and a Pickering magnetic ·cartridge. All in all, we think it adds up to a terrific value. Please check it out soon-we think you'll agree! 
TI-E 
.. 


SERVING MICHIGAN &INDIANA 
SOUTH BEND: 52578 US 31 NORTH/277-1515 

...2i.I.OL-___.twhueiL...lloub~s~eK.LrvJL.:e!IIIO.....r______F_r_ld_•~Y':...__...Se pttmb. r I I 1978 
' 
i; 
' ., 1. ', Miners risk lives for South Africa's gold
~ I 
CARLETONVILLE, South Africa South Africa.has 70 percent of the square inch. 
hundreds of miles of spaghettied percent turnover in the mine every[AP] • While telephones jingle in free world's gold and in the year In addition to their salaries, all waterpipes ventilation ducts, elec­
year.London, Zurich and Chicago and ending June 30 earned $3.7 billion miners, black and white, receive a tric lines, and compressed air hoses Blacks remain in the lowest jobs
speculators push gold to record from gold sales. Uranium, once a monthly production bonus based on that snake from scores of whirring because the Afrikaner-dominated 
prices, black miners crawl through worthless by-product of gold­how many yards of rock they drill hissing machines. miners union protects whites' waist-high tunnels to wrench the mining, earned the country $1.3 and blast. 
Each day at 5 p.m., the end of the rights and privileges.metal from the world's deepest billion. Mosutt, a stocky, full-faced man, day shift, a stacatto series of By law, blacks cannot form unions 
Mosutt Moatsdugha, a 35-year­
mine. Their sweat soaked bodies has worked the mines for 19 vears. 
explosions from thousands of or integrate white unions. They aregive some hint of why the metal is old black miner from neighboring He says he averages about S250 a pounds of explosives in hundreds represented, however, by so-called Botswana, is one of 378,000 black
so precious. month while a driller may earn of driller holes rattle the mine. It "liason committees" that handle 
The miners' day begins in a steel and 38,000 white miners who $130. That is a long way from the takes about four hours for the dust grievances but have no bargaining cage hurtling downward at nearly descend into the bowels of the white miner, or "stoper" who to settle and rock to stop falling rights.
40 miles-per-hour past layers of earth every day in South Africa to supervises several black teams run before the night shift crews de­Critics of the migrant labor sys­time imbedded in rock. drill and blast specks of gold to fill by men like Mosutt. 
scend into the mine to funnel the tem say it serves business byIt is almost an hour of stop-and-go the country's coffers. Johan Fouche, 31, a white "sto­
blasted rock into ore cars. keeping wages low. But mining before they reach the bottom, Mosutt says he iikes it here per." says he earns $800 to $1000 a Above ground, all the miners' officials point out that until a few
where they crawl through a maze of •'because of the money.'' As a month. Taking a mid-morning tea needs from laundry to medical care years ago, gold was officiallytunnels little more than a yard high team leader, or "boss-boy," he break, Fouche fished a cigarette 
are taken care of free. The miners pegged at $35 an ounce and to take their turns with jackham­supervises a dozen drillers and from his dripping wet clothes and live in hostels and receive a goldmining was not particularly 
mers against the solid rock. "cheezers"--m·en who place explo­said, "I used to work on the 
fortified diet containing 4000-4500 profitable.The temperature of the rock is 135 sives into drilled holes. Mosutt railroad but I left for a career in the calories a day--more than twice the To keep costs down blacks are 
degrees. The dust-filled air is earns $11.08 per eight-hour shift mines. The money is better." 
needs of a normal person. paid low wages, but their salariesrefrigerated to a relatively cool 90 and works 11 shifts in 14 days. He said the mining was dangerous The blacks are migrants. They have risen 300 percent in four degrees, with humidity 95 percent. Mosutt clambers through the and about every 100 days there's a generally leave at the end of their 
years.~

The mine, called Western Deep jagged tunnels to make sure the 
rockburst in one of his shafts, six month contracts and go to their It's been 10 years since the priceLevels. is the world's deepest at drillers keep hammering. In average for the mine. In matter-of­native towns and villages. They of gold was freed from $35 an 
13,000 feet--almost 10 World Trade near-total darkness, pierced only fact tones, the miner said, "I had a return to the mine when they need ounce, and it is now selling for Center buildings on end. An army by miners' lamps, the sweat­rockburst three or four months ago. 
money. There is almost a 100 about $210 an ounce.
soaked men half sit and half recline 
of 12,351 blacks and 978 whites. One kaftir black was killed. It's an daily risk their lives to scratch an on a bed of crushed rock and drill act of God. There's no warning." ou nee of gold from every two tons with bone-jarring noise into the In South Africa's gold mines. the of rock. wall containing the unseen gold in 
average fatality rate is 1.4 deaths 
a band an inch to a foot wide.
Western Deep Levels. 43 miles per 1000 miners, or 582 men killed 
Shirtless mi;E•:·s bathed in the
west of Johannesburg. harvests a year. At Western Deep Levels, 
about 263 pounds a day. It and 34 spray of water · ··)led jackhammers rockbursts kill 30 men a year. 

lean into their ;r:lls. Their helmets 
major goldmines in South Africa Along with the mine~s. plumbers, 
produce about 700 metric tons of scrape the chiseled roof pressing 
electicians, welders. riggers, me­
down at about 14,000 pounds per
gold a year. chanics and engineers work on the 
Kid questions are easy as soup 
NEW YORK [AP) • "Vegetable Soup," the TV show that answers questions kids might be afraid to ask about the way people look and live, is back with some new ingredients. 
"Between the ages of 4 and 12, kids have a number of questions that deal with race that are unexpressed, like questions about sex," says the program's executive producer, Y anna Brandt. "They wonder why one child is a different color or another's hair looks differ­ent. 
"They often won't ask about these things," she says, "maybe be­cause they consider the question 
too  sensitive,  or  that  it  might  
embarrass  someo ne,  or  them­ 
selves."  

"Vegetable Soup" is based on the premise, she says, that "the more kids see of differences in people, the less prejudices there are.'' 

The new series of 39 half-hour episodes, called "Vegetable Soup II," premieres on NBC Sunday at 8 
a.m. EDT. About 160 public television stations also will carry "Vegetable Soup." 
"Vegetable Soup" is aimed at children between the ages of 6 and 12, and attacks sexual as well as racial stereotypes. Each episode draws on real-life characterizations as welll as animation. 
The program's approach is maga­zine-style, smooth, often subtle, and cumulative, with emphasis on continuing stories and characters. "One of the reasons we built in serialization," Ms. Brandt says, "is because we felt no one show could suddenly teach racial toler­ance." 
The series, produced by the Bureau of Mass Communications of the New York State Education Department, was first broadcast in the fall of 1975. A $2.3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, helped pay for current production. 
CILA picnic 
moves 

to Holy Cross 
The CILA picnic will be held Sunday from 4 to 7 p.m. by St. Mary's Lake in front of Holy Cross Hall, not at the SMC Clubhouse as originally scheduled. 
All CILA members are invited, as are advisors, their families, and any interested newcomers. In case · of rain, the picnic will be held Sunday, Sept. 17, from 3 to 5 p.m. 
Abortion law is challenged 
NEW ORLEANS [API • One of  the fetus within her became a  
the nation's most restrictive abor­ human life the instant the male  
tion laws goes into effect today in  sperm fertilized the female egg - 
Louisiana in the latest attempt by a  the "moment of conception...  
state or city government to counter  Louisiana's new law · approved  
the U.S. Supreme Court's decision  by a vote of 88-0 in the House and  
liberalizing the availability of abor­ 35-1 in the Senate -closely follows  
tions.  a city ordinance adopted in Akron,  
However. it faces an immediate  Ohio, a hot spot in the "Right to  
challenge. A hearing is scheduled  Life·' campaign. That law is also  
Oct. 18 in U.S. District Court here  under challenge in federal court.  
on a request by foes of the law for a  A restrictive measure also was  
preliminary injunction to block its  approved recently in Louisville,  
enforcement. Pending the outcome  Ky.. where Jefferson County com­ 
of that hearing, the state has  missioners passed an ordinance  
agreed not to enforce the law.  that would cut off county funJs for  
It is the Louisiana Legislature's  abortions and require that women  
second attempt to negate the  be shown a photograph of a fetus  
Supreme Court's 1973 ruling,  before getting an abortion.  
which. in effect. said governments  The Louisiana law is being  
may not interfere with a women's  challenged by three abortion clinics  
right to an abortion so long as it is  and three physicians with help  
performed in the early stages of  from the American Civil Libverties  
pregnancy. A 1976 statute inten­ Union.  
ded to make abortion murder by  George Strickler, a New Orleans  
defining a person as a "human  lawyer assisting the ACLU, said  
being from the moment offertiliza­ some sections of the law are nearly  
tion.. was ruled unconstitutional by  identical in working to laws that  
federal judge.  have already been rule~ unconsti­ 
"The guts of our new law is the  tutional elsewhere.  
concept of 'informed consent,"'  Peggy Cottle, director of the  
said state Rep. Lane Carson of New  Delta Women's Clinic, one of those  
Orleans. who wrote the bill.  challenging the law, said it should  
Under the "informed consent"  be ruled unconstitutional because it  
doctrine, the woman would have to  represents ari effort to impose one  
undergo a concentrated period of  religious concept -that the fetus  
instruction before receiving per­ should be considered a person from  
mission for the abortion. During  the moment of conception ­on all of  
the period, the woman would be  Louisiana's residents.  
taught. among other things, that  

KINGS CELLAR LIQUORS 
announces 

FOOTBALL WEEKEND SPECIALS: STROHS S5.99/case HAmms S2.99/ 12pk PABST 15.99/case OLYmPIA S1.79/ 6pk miLLER LITE 13.59I 12pk 
KEGSII 1/2 barrel HAmms 126.99 miLLER LITE 130.50 OLYmPIA 130.50 
ALSO 


~ 

CARLO ROSSI gal CLUB PINA COLATA 12.99 fifth ~ RIUNITE LAffi8RUSCO 11.99 fifth 
ASK ABOUT OUR OTHER SPECIALS 
2934 E. mcKinley 1725 N. ltonwood 113 Dlxlew 
Rosel 


•

\ 
Frldn, September 8, 1978 


-------~---­e: Bring the toughest textbook or reading material you own to tonight'sFree Speed Reading Lesson and we'll show you how to read it faster, with comprehension!-­We'll show you how to readIf you're like most people, you're faster, with comprehension. probably skeptical about our ability to make Speed Reading And, remember, we're not using our materials ... books that youwork for you. O.K. Tonight we'd like.the may feel are too easy ... we're opportunity to prove, as we have using yours ... the toughest to millions, that you can read you can find! faster with comprehension. If you're open minded and In fact, we challenge you want to improve your reading challenge you to come to tonight's ability, we challenge you ... Free Speed Reading Lesson challenge you to begin tonight, to make reading work for you! armed with the toughest text­book or reading material you own. SCHEDULE·QF FREE LESSONS EVELYN WOOD ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION READING DYNAMICS I CENTER SUNDAY ONLY 12:30 3:30 Make reading work for you! 7:30p.m.  

~ ,. .. . ·. . 
~ .-._, ... . . ,-. ~· .. .· .-.. ··~·-~··~ ~·­
. a ' 


22 the ObServer Frld1y, September 8, 1978 
~--~~-~~~~----------~ 

OO().L~)~)TT ~ ~~ l1!rfl!{;~<<1••• 
by Michael Molinelli 

~~----~~~~· 

••• '11HfRc WILL 8E NO KE& 
rti.R1\~ o~ LARGrE "BeER PAR'tlCS Of ANY KIN"D ON 
~·T woRr.Y Aeoar aT... HOIII a;u.P OME MAN Ftt-ID ALl. 1HE ~ .ANP ALL. "»>E 
~E'S oN A CAMPOS ~~~ 
5fZE.? 


CHAUNCEY'S DAIRY PARLOR 
1723 So. Bend Ave. 

Delicious, Nutritiona~ Healt~ful Freezer Fresh ICE CREAM SPECIAL this Week Co_ffee Ice Cream 
I 
II 
Daryl Hall John Oates 

FRIDAY and SATURDAY 
·-~-Along the Red Ledge 

From 6:00 to 12:00 midnight All Records & Tapes On Salell 
Includes: I Don't Wanna lose You It's a laugh Melody for a Memory
ftCn The last Time 
JJJf ~JJJ~Pfll~ 
HEADLIGHTS 


.) 
! 


Sports Roundup 
Browners leave Ohio 
CINCINNATI [AP] -Former Notre Dame All-American Ross Browner, whose pro football debut was marred by a freak injury, has resumed light· workouts and ex­pects to start scrimmaging in three weeks. 
Browner, Cincinnati's No. 1 draft choice last May, suffered a torn bicep in the Bengals' pre-season opener Aug. 5. 
A seven-inch scar on his right arm remains, but Browner has been liberated from a harness he needed since surgery. 
He is not concerned, nor are the Bengals, that the injury ciJuld 
jeopar?ize _the career of the huge Connors Borg win 
defenstve hneman. "I ~ave full rotatio!l of my arm," he.~a~d, afte~ a 45-mtnut.~ wo_rkout. It s commg around, satd t~e 6-f~t-3, 2~0-pou_nd Warren, Ohto, natt~e. Its Just a matter of getting_ my strength back ~nd 
stretchmg all those tendons agam. They're stagnated. They haven't moved in three weeks." Mean­
while, he has moved his family from Warren-home for the last 24 years -into a six-bedroom home in A~lanta, away from Ohio's brutal wmters of late. 
~*************************************************************************************~ 
1CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSCLASSIF 
To repa~'/reinds, Need 4 Purdue Tickets 
7988 or 912. 
Desperat~ need one student or GA 
ticket to Jchigan Game. Call1842. 
Wanted: Just 1 Michigan Ticket GA or student Rob 1143. 
Needed: Michigan GA tickets, student tickets for other games. Call after 5 pm272-4478. 
WILL TRADE V2 Missouri or 2 Purdue GA tickets for 2 Tennessee. Call Sue 6734. 
Help!! I~eed 4 GA tickets to Pitt. Call Bob at 8 9. 
Wanted: Missouri tix call 8991 or 8928. 

NOTICES Trouble with your wheels?· For a Good Deal-Call George's Car Repair-3369  
CILA PICNIC, near lake and Holy Cross Hall. Sunday, Sept 10 4:00-7:00 Please Come!!!  
Drummer lookin% for rock/country rock band 4 yrs. exp. all Mike 8867 sgecial Discount to All N D and SMC Sudents on automotive parts. all youneed is your ID card. Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric 1101 E. Madison So. Bend.  
Earn ~our Allowance sell AVON in yourdorm all 7819  
GAY STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME G~ Information line 8870 Friday SeQ. 810: pm -12:00 pm Saturday Sep 910:00 pm­12:00 pm.  
LOST & FOUND Lost: Help! I've already lost m~ I D so if you find one with m~ name, A. . Smith, on It, please call 81 4. Thanx  
Found: Glasses in red case near StepanCenter. Call Mary Pat at 4287. "Lost Saturday August 26 one navy blue flowered zipper case containing two strands of pearl necklace, one pa1r goldanchor earrings. Kee~ake, liberal reward. Vicmity St ary College campus, Notre Dame, Morris Inn and adjacent parking lot or Howard Johnson Restaurant in roseland or parking lot Call A. Purcell, 284-5712, or Mrs. J.F. Purcell (219) 923-4238 collect" Lost: one swinglinfb ~ower Jun 1000 staple gun-left in 2 us. A ~· 31 August Reward Offered. Call Lost: Set of Keys. Brown leather ke~ holder. Lost on campus 9-&78 Call 147 Lost: Pair of Brown Glasses with squarishlenses. Lost at St. Ma~·s on Wednesdaynight Reward. Call ike 8978.  
-FOR RENT Gara~e for Rent, Double Bed for sale,Call 87-5718.  
Live in a neighborhood with your pro­fessors. Two graduate students ~re­ferred) to share house close in dar room. Call Ted, 289-0103.  
WANTED HELP! I need 2GA Missouri tickets. Will pay!!Call Dawn 7974.  
Helft!! Desperately need 1 student ticket to he Missouri game for my visitinpbrohter. Will trade an~ther game ticke . Please call John at 1 2. Needed: a babysitter for a retarded child during Saturday's game Call Suzy 6930 Will trade two Missouri tickets for two Springstein tickets Call 288-5707 Graduate Student needed to work for Dept. of Audio Visual Services-1pm-5pm Mon. throut Fri. Please a~ply room 9 Center for ontinuing Educa Jon.  
! ! ! ! For tickets to any/all Home Games -Tim 272-7674  
Need: 4 GA Pitt Tickets will pay !!! Call Susan 4-1-4509  
Emergen'f:!! Need International Ac­counting extbook Call 3657. Need 2Mich tix will trade season BB tlx,cash or any home game. Tim 6811.  
Sandy 81 . 


Wanted: 2student or GA tix to Michiganand/or Purdue Bob 3068. 
Wanted: One student or GA ticket for the Michigan Game. Call 4-1-4420. 
Need one student ticket to Missouri wme 
will pay mucho bucks, call Lenny 2 2­
5201. 
Need Student tickets for Purdue Call Terry 1488 
Desperately need Pitt Tickets. Moneft no object. Name your price. Call Lance 027 
Need 2 student or GA tix for Missouri game. Call John 1996. 
Wanted: Four tickets to Michigan game,Call 277-2944 after 6 pm. 
I need 2tickets to the Michigan game. 1 know it's just adream, but someone must have some tickets for my Mom & Dad to use! Call Jerry 1398. 
NEED 1-4 TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME. PlEASE HELP. CALL TRISH 4391. 
Need GA tix for any home footballj,ame.
Will pay $$of course. Call Joe 1 8. 
Need 1 GA Missouri Ticket -Call Mary4359. 
Wanted: 2 or 4 Michigan Tickets. Call 
Bob 289-1412 
I need 3 GA Michigan Tickets! Name your price! Pat 1020 
Desperately need manv. tickets for the Puraue game. Call Paul at 1403. 
DesP.arat3lr, need 3 GA Pitt tickets. Call 
Need 2 GAl student tickets for Parents for Missouri game. Call Marsha 4826. 

Help! 1 I need 2 GA Purdue Tickets for Need two GA tickets for Missouri Call Mom and Dad. Paul1547. 
1842. 
I 
NEW YORK [AP] -Jimmy Connors and Bjorn Borg won their quarter-final matches in the U.S. Open Tennis Championships on Thursday, strengthening the chances that they will stage a rematch of the last two Wimbledon 
finals Sunday. · Connors the second seed elimi­nated No.' 6 Brian Gottfri;d 6-2, 7-6, 6-1 before a crowd of 19,433 at night, a record for the Open and one of the largest tennis audiences 

in history. League East. Ross Browner and family have moved to Atlanta 
The move cut deeply into his old high school, Warren Western Re­serve, long a prep football power in northern Ohio. When his mother resettled, she took the latest in a string of football-playing sons. Joey Browner is a 6-foot-4, 205­
pound senior; Keith is a 6-5, 195-pound junior and Gerald is a 6-3, 280-pound freshman. 
Ross' brother Jim is a starting defensive back at Notre Dame. 
The Bengals, 24-23 losers to Kansas City in last week's National Football League opener, travel to Cleveland Sunday. 
Need 2 or 4 S~r~steen Tickets (floor or 
Padded) call 8 169 
r-ieed 2 GA tix for Missouri Call Ray
277-4102 
DesReratelr need Michigan Tickets! Will 
pay$$ Cal Bob 1151. 
Need 1 student tix for Michigan will pay
$$. Please call 234-1735. 
Help m~two friends realize adream theyneed 2 issouri tix's call 1518. 
Will Eaf an~ price for 2 or 4 GA Pitt 
Ticke s all haun 7965 
I need 2 Michi?an GA tickets. Money is 
no object. Cal Steve 3054. 
Need desparateiX 2 Missouri tix 8 
Michigan t1x. Ca I Ray 289-8657. 
Desparately need 2 GA tix for Mich Bucks no problem. Call Bill 8333. 

Borg, the top seed, beat No. 8 
Raul Ramirez of Mexico earlier in 
the day, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, 6-0. 
Connors will meet 19-year-old 
John McEnroe, the 15th seed, in 
Saturday's semifinals. Borg will 
play No. 4 Vitas Gerulaitis, the 
American with whom he has been 
practicing for two weeks. 
Also on Thursday, 16-year-old 
Pam Shriver won her quarterfinal 
match against Australian Lesley 
Hunt 6-2, 6-0 and became the 
youngest semifinalist ever in the 
American championship. No. 
Wendy Turnbull of Australia over­
came No. 15 Kathy May 3-6, 7-6, 
6-3 in another quarterfinal. The 
women's semifinals are on Friday. 
Yankees drive 
BOSTON [AP) -Willie Randolph drove in five runs, three with a bases-loaded double, and the New York Yankees exploded for 21 hits Thursday night in a 15-3 victory over the Boston Red Sox. 
Winning for the 13th time in their last 15 games, New York moved with three games of the first-place Red Sox in the American 
Will pay ANY PRICE for 2-4 Michigan Need lots of Missouri tickets for familytickets. Griff 234-2329. and friends. Call John at 288-9988. 
WANTED: Any number of Missouri Purdue-Hatin~ So~hmore has b~ bet
tickets. Will sin~Missouri fight song on with two Pur ue a umni sisters. eed 4 request Mark -9988. GA or 2 Student and 2 GA tix to collect Call John at 1m.
. Filthy rich aunt is now preparing to make annual pilgrim<~Jle to Notre Dame football WANTED: 2 GA tickets for Missouri CallGame. r~uire 1GA Pitt ticket. Money Tom at 1069. no object! Call Scoop at 1771. 
DESPERATELY needed 2 GA tickets toWANTED four GA Michigan game call RMrdue 1 stud. tx pittsburg-Chris 288­
collect 712-732·2842. 59. 
Mom and Dad need 2 GA tix for Purdue. Need 2Michigan and 4purdue GA tickets
$$ Brian 8671 . 
Call1786. 
Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can Ra~ big Need one GA or Student Miss. ticket for
bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8 50. out of town friend. kevin 3312. 
WANTED: Tickets to Missouri Game. 
Need up to 3 Pitt. tickets. Mick 3312.
Student or GA Will pay $$ call Mark 
1419. 
Desw;rately need GA tickets to Mi~an. Wi Ift.~~ood $$$. Call Licia 4-or
Need 2 GA football tickets for Missouri Joe 2 -6.and/or Michigan. Call Mike at 7838. Will pay Megabucks for GA or StudentWANTED: Missouri tickets. Please, ticket to Missouri. Zall Nora at SMC
please, please call Barb at 7951. 4455. 
Needed: 2 Michigan GA tickets will pay 
Sports Illustrated Court Club lookin~ for
$$ Mike 1478. 
enthusiastic individuals to work rart ime 
at our raquet ball club. ositions
Need one Missouri ticket quick; call John available are: teachin~ positions in8400 raquetball, desk sales, itness center, ~layroom attendant, and janitorial work.
Wanted: one student football ticket for 
n~~e job and good benefits. Call
Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243. 25 for appoin ment. 
DesperateiX need 2-4 GA tickets for . Bartender, Waitress, Dishwahser, PizzaPurdue Ca I Dan 8252. Maker, supply-man, Positions open ND­SMC students welcome, Full and partDesperate!~ need two GA Missouri time employment, _hourly pay-minimum
tickets. Call Brian 6840. 
wage plus.Nappl¥ 1n personicola s RestaurantWanted: 2-4 GA Purdue tix. Will pay· 809 North Michigan St. Close to campus
please help ! Call-Laura 6731. 
Needed: 2 Michi~an GA or Student
Will bu~ Trade "Yes" Tix for Mich tickets Call. Mike a 234-3574.
Passes, A's Mark 3138. Will Trade 2 student tickets for 2 GA
Help Need GA or Student football tickets tickets for Pitt Game. Call 4-1-4438.
for all games except Miami. Good $$call 1735-Jeff 
FOR SALE MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED. WILL Refrigerator for sale-pood condition, 8 PAY MEGABUCKS' CALL MIKE AT cubic feet. $60 dollars. Call 288-2431. 1371. 
For Sale: 1Michigan and Purdue Ticket Part-time bartender must be 21 male or Call Don 8175. female 289-4709. 
For Sale: Harman Kardon 730 twin-Wanted: 2GA tickets for Purdue game. powered receiver. Almost new. SMC 
Call Mike 6851. 4193, 121 Madelena. 
Despera~ need 4 Missouri tickets Call Pure Breed Alaskian malamute puppies. 
Judy 4-4 . sm gentle d~s-~ood with children. Call 
a er 4pm. 2 2-18. NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN JOHN 1785. 
Needed Badly: 1 ticket (GA or student) PERSONALS ~Call Brien 3072. MOC. 
88888888888888888 HOW DID THE BATH GO 7 WISH YOU COULD GIVE ME ONE TOO BUT YOU MAY HAVE TO LEAVE THE ROOMIII 
Needed Badly: 1 ticket (GA or Student) THE MALE PATIENT for Missouri game. Call Brian 3072. 
Byzantine Catholics, as well as a"{ others Wealthy father needs 2-4 GA tix for anx interested in learning more abou Byzan­
and al~mes. Money is triviaL Ca tine Christian life. snould siyn the list on Mark . the secretart's desk in he Campus 
Minist~ffice (Memorial Library lobby)Need two GA tickets to Pitt Game. Call before temb8r 8. Pete 1460. 
Need Springsteen tickets Call 288-5707.Would you like to be ngrt of a ~roup who 
shares prayt!r, reflec ion, and ellowshlpNeeded oneGA ticket for this weekend's once a week? Contact Campus Ministry, game, Missouri. Call Margie SMC 5183. 103 Library, (6536). 
Need Pitt tickets Please call1150. Smith & Co., superb entertainment at NO 
rates, Is now available! 289-8625 after 4 Wanted-Missouri tickets, dead or alive. Brian. Remember the Bull Moose Reward offered. Call Biv 288-9988 • Party!!! 
Des~ately need one Michigan ticket. Call 7961. 
GARBAGE A STITCH-Since )'0!1 missed Des~ately need one Michigan ticket. the first one, here poes again. Otcay you
Call 7961. win how much Is I going to cost? 
I 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
I would be ~rateful to anyone who can sell me tickets o the Purdue football game.I'll listen to any offer so call me. I'm Bob,and can be reached by phone at 1780. 
KEVIN• THINKING OF YOU!! LOVE L.A. 
ATTN: ND-SMC Announcing first annual Kent dorfman look alike contest For details. call Kent 8649 (collect~ 
NEEDED: EXPERIENCED MUSICIANS VOCALISTS* INSTRUMENTALISTS in­terested in playing for liturgies on camP.us. If interested, fclease contact: 
CAMPUS MINISTRY* 03 lib. (6536) 
Mary Scannell: I tina you simpl~ ravishing, but I can't afford i:finner in aris. Won't you meet me on the river Friday nite? 
NEW OBSERVER TYPISTS PLEASE FILL OUT THE OBSERVER PERSON1 NEL SHEETS AND TAX FORMS ~LOCATED IN MY BOX~BY FRIDAY. 
ERY IMPORTANT! HEN CO~ 
PLETED PLACE ALL FORMS BACK I MY BOX. THANKS!! MARDI 
Carol and Nancy: thanks for returningRoon:r·s clothes. You are cordiallyinvit to our next t~ ~rty'
PR*JD* *MS 
Boa• NO MISSES YOU AND SO DO 1111 LOVEJ 
Mary, Happy 21st to one of the four nicest sisters ever. Love Margie. 
EILEEN LYNCH* All R~s on deck-Sooo-weee11 Pig! Pig!Pig.! 1g!!! 
Disco secret I 3Donna L. Ann H· &Diane 
D. all have been known to wear extremely tight disco belts because theylike lt. 
Disco secret I 4 -North Quad is burning ~!I Ariane & Mary are teaching all able arle~es the pretzeL Keep tl'iat under 
your t!! 
TO THE STAR-KATHY HORGAN* THE FISH WHO'S GONNA SAVE PITTS. GOOD LUCK we KNOW YOU CAN DO ITill 
MARK LAEMLE (and the rest of 1011 Flanner)· No I wasn't being rude, obnoxious or any such uncharacteristic thing-My roomates reaiiX did need to use 
the phone! Sorry-but I' make It up to you!!! Rosemary 
JOEL• HERE'S A FAST LETTER SENT TO YOU VIA THE ND PAPER 1 HI HI HI KATHY 
BRuce· HAPPY 21st!! Us 
· FIVE KEG PARTY AFTER SPRING1 STEEN; CAMPUS VIEW 
BETSY* KRISTIAN & ELLEN• Welcome baCk to the ND/SMC Com­munlty. It's going to be a good~­
Your ObseMr Friend, Diane 
HI BILLY•~tLLY GLAD YOU DE· 
CIOEO TO ME. THAIIX TIISH 

.. 

-~--.......-.,-----------------------· 
24 the ObS8fY8[ Frldly, Septem bar I, 1971 
'~~
' -~ 
11 
<I· Harriers ready for season,
~~ 
I~~. 
I. 
o\ 
q, Piane speaks optimistically 
' 
l'' by Sean Heffernan was the team's top scorer last teams in· District IV, including 
-~ 
Sports Writer season and he had Notre Dame's Michigan and Miami of Ohio. Th~11~i' best finish in five different meets. Invitational will accurately gauge I' The Notre Dame cross country He holds the school record in the the caliber of this year's team and 
I 
team opens its 1978 season this steeplechase (8:50) and 5,000 might be regarded as the key event 
I 
Saturday, September 9, with a dual meters (14:23). Vanderkraats in the schedule. "Anyway you lookI meet against Purdue. The five mile stayed active during the summer as at it, we should have a great year if:t race will begin at 11:00 a.m. on the a member of the Canadian National we run anywhere near our poten­I~ Burke Memorial Golf Course, start­team. Welch, from Hannibal, Mo., tial," adds Piane. "Our only loss
Ir
I[. ing on the sixteenth fairway and was ND's top finisher in the NCAA was Dan Horgan, and I think we 'tl.t· finishing on the second fairway. District IV meet last season.. have more than replaced him with Optimism is running high in the The other returning lettermen our newcomers.
1'' 
I :f cross country camp this fall as Irish are Sophomores Chuck Aragon, The freshmen certainly do carry 
!I J:t> i)'> coach Joe Piane and his harriers Charlie Fox, and Pat Sullivan, plus impressive credentials and may be look forward to an improved '78 senior Joe Strohman. Sophomore the needed ingredients to make the
't
I~ season. Piane is confident that the sensation Chuck Aragon got a taste Irish and NCAA contender. The ;~ ,[ upcoming campaign will be an of international competition this trio of newcomers--Ed Bomber, 
r: outstanding one. ''This is the past summer while competing for Chris Lattig, and Tony Hatherly-·~~.~ has recorded national-class times
,,, strongest team I've ever had," the AAU National Junior Olympic says Piane, who is beginning his team in Russia. The New Mexico in middle distance and distance
1,.I; fourth year at Notre Dame. native was chosen the most valu­events. According to Piane, all 
·~ 
II:·. 
After losing only one individual able performer on the Irish track three could be among the top seven
~~ 
[' to graduation, Piane welcomes team in his rookie season. Irish runners. Tony Hatherly, a
~~~ 
back a talented crew of veterans There can be little doubt that the native of Thunder Bay, Canada, \hII'{I'' and a promising trio of blue-chip Irish will improve over last year's competed for Canada last year in 
I 
freshmen. "We have a very deep record. Piane expects to go unde­the World Junior Cross Country ' \ \ team. Our only loss from a year ago feated in dual meets, fare much Championships in Scotland. Chris !,:~ was our number four man, and with 
better in the Notre Dame Invita­Lattig, from Portland, Oregon, is the addition of the freshmen there
ib'l tional and place several runners in the Oregon state high school mile 
,,,
\~~~ is no question that we'll be a better the NCAA District IV champion­and cross country champion, while 
~ \-.': 
~~· 
team. ships. Last year Notre Dame sent Ed Bomber, his high school team­Three year letterman and senior five runners to the district cham­mate, has been rated one of the top co-captains Dennis Vanderkraats pionships and ran a respectable high school steeplechasers in the !}i and Steve Welch will anchor this race while failing to qualify for the country. While the emphasis is on 
~ .,r 
young, yet experienced team. Van­nationals. The ND Invitational, on the present, these talented fresh­
i\'
r
... ' ~ derkraats, from Toronto, Canada, October 6, pits the Irish against top men signify a very bright future for 

{: 
by Hill CaJdweif may be needed. more!>. Sports Writer A manager's job is not an easy The senior managers travel with
j~ 
one. This is well evidenced by the the team to all the away games,l /~ 
fact that in a typical freshman class receive a partial or full scholarship, 
It l 
~~ As the Fighting Irish griddersl Tony Pace take the field on Saturday one thing there may be 40 or SO managers, earn their monogram, and receive 
I I l that will stand out is the golden but hy junior and senior year, the basketball and hockey tickets.
' l~' 
-~ ·sparkle of the helmets. The number has been trimmed down to:)1·~ Injury Epidemic quesHon is often asked as to who is the 12 best managers. ,: ~ responsible for this heavenly glim­The job is also a very time ·r '•,. mer. To put folklore back in its consuming activity. The juniors 
a

t ..i' f place, it is not the Pope or even God put in an average of 30 hours ,. 
Quarterbacks who is responsible; it is a group of week during the football season. dedicated individuals known as the The seniors put in approximately
Although the pro football season is but a week old, the injury reports
jfi: '(' 
University of Notre Dame Student 40 hours a week.
•·. filed by each club are already extensive. Hyperextended knees, torn
j> Managers Organization.
cartiledge in the knee, bruised ribs, jammed shoulders, not to mention
' 
I The painting of the football 
< ' (· ' Darryl Stingley's precarious situation. 
( ,., helmets for every game is just one
Sports Ulustrated's series on Violence in Pro Football could nQt have
j 
('H of the many responsibilities that
been published at a better time. 

I (•· 
the football manager must handle.
I (:t . One position seems to have been particularly effected: quarterbacks. 
The greatest responsibility belongs 
Bob Griese is out for about half the season with a bad knee. Ken
! 
(·· J 
to senior Daryl Madden, the head
t•< Anderson broke his hand and will miss part of the regular season. Burt 
; ;,\ ;, football manager. His job is to
L• Jones' shoulder is banged up and his status for the next few games is 
I ,,.' coordinate all the efforts of a work 
(' questionable. Terry Bradshaw had his nose broken in an exhibition game, Jim Swinehart
I rJ force that includes approximately
( although he did make it back in time for the regular season games. Once 
I'' 45 freshman, 35 sophomores, and Head Manager Daryl Madden
t the season started, lesser known quarterbacks such as the New Jersey f I 2'I Giants Jerry Golstyen, Tampa Bay's rookie Doug Williams, and Kansas 12 juniors and seniors. 
thinks that this year's team has 
1 (• 
City's Mike Livingston all had to leave games which they had started. Many of the duties that must be 
more desire than the other teams 
I t • 
I r . ., This situation is, quite frankly, an injury epidemic and quarterbacks are that he has been associated with. 
! '\ 
the group that has been hit the hardest. .. This desire is certainly evident in
I 
t>
f -;·,i The typical response to this problem is that injuries are a part of the 
the dedication and hard work of the 
~ (: Dave McCann
game. Even further, some wilt' say that quarterbacks happen to be a student managers. If this same ~ ' i particularly vulnerable group. Taking a pounding goes with the glamor of type of desire is carried on to the 
( j :11: the position some say. In general, the manager's job is field by the players, there will be a l to provide a link of communication 
very green New Year's Day. 
~ ;~: between coaches and players as
I 
I 0• Pro football· well as the business department
r·t 
~ I ( { ', ( and the team members. This job NATIONAL LEAGUE I {I/ This attitude is a direct contradition of all the actions the National cannot be taken lightly. Without EASTI () ~~ Football League has taken in recent season to-open up the offense and smooth communication no group of 
w L GB 
~~ make professional football more exciting. The NFL has drawn up new players and coaches can function as
1,<, 
Philadelphia 75 63 
\ rules concerning the bumping of wide receivers and the pass blocking a team.
1:~ '­
Pittsburgh 74 65
l 
l;, ;' techniques of offensive lineman. But the quarterback, the man who is As, far as the managers relation­
v· 
Chicago 69 71 
.( ultimately in charge of the offense has been left naked. How many times ships with the players and the 
.. ' -, . 
C· has a quarterback been leveled well after he has released a pass? Too coaches, there is nothing but a WEST 
;!';i;' many. The argument that the defensive linemen have built up too much 0 a ry I M add en mutual respect. Each one recog­
w L GB
I'\ momentum racing to sack the quarterback is weak. All defensive lineman nizes the other om, as an important
I li' 
Los Angeles 84 56
I 1<:: are conditioned and should be able to stop much more quickly than they performed are the responsibility of part in the team effort. Because of 
I 
San Francisco 80 60 4
'I have in the past. the two senior associate football this respect, the managers at Notre 
I ~­
Cincinnati 76 63 7111
If theNFLreally wants to see more scoring, they should enforce the managers. Jim Swinehart works in Dame truly feel like members of 
,~. \ 
.1) roughing the passer penalty much more frequently. close contact with the business offi the team. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
l I Grid dust -The surprise of the opening week in the NFL season had to be ce in making all the preparations The job does have its rewards. 
EAST

l ~f the way Richard Todd passed his way through the Miami defense: 17 of 25 for the away games. Dave Mc­Besides being a part of the greatest 
( ) 
w L GB
• :r, for over 200 yards and three touchdowns. Don Shula muat have wondered Cann, the equipment manager, has football tradition in college football Boston 86 53I if he had made the right move by trading safety Vern Roberson to the San the job of coordinating work with there are benefits which the mana­
~~ 
New York 83 56 3
l;( Francisco 49ers ... the pass interference call in the Oakland-Denver game the full-time University equipment ger receives. 
Milwaukee 80 60 6%leads one to believe that the longer season may be even more trouble for manager to make sure the neces­Freshmen receive a numeral
fi· 
l ~.' referees... Bengal fans may be in for a long yea~; if Kansas City is able to sary equipment is available at the sweater and the sophomores re­
WEST r i run all over them ... Dallas looked like they were ready for the Super Bowl each practice. ceive their books plus basketball 
w L GB 
already as they trounced the Colts...Philadelphia must wonder when they The junior managers are in and hockey tickets. The juniors Kansas City 76 61
j ... 
are going to get a break. Last season they lost many close games in the charge of the practices and game have the privilege of traveling to an 
California 74 65 3I I ~ I' latter stages of the season. They lost in the last seven seconds on Sunday preparations. The sophomores and . away football game in addition to 
Texas 68 68 7111
l I on a 46 yard field goal by a rookie kicker. freshmen work where ever they the benefits received by the sopho­
( f\ 
' ' 
1·":
lll, 
~.'' 
1\ 
~ ~~: 
t·it; .. 
r
\:''· 
n· 
C·. 
t>
f ~ . ,_ 
the ND cross country and track Dennis Vanderkraats leads the way for the NO cross-country squad. programs. 
country schedule is as follows'; State at Wesf Lafayette; 28--Cen­
For the first time in several 
September: 9--PURDUE; 22--at tral Collegiate Conference in Chi­
years, Piane has had to issue cuts, 
Michigan State. October: 6--ND cago. November: 11--NCAA Dis­
which seems to indicate the caliber 
*Observer INVITATIONAL; 14--LOYOLA, trict 4 at Minneapolis; 20--NCAAof talent and level ofcompetition on 
MARQUEITE, DEPAUL; 20--Big Championships at Madison.
this year's squad. The 1978 cross 
ND managers await contest 


~ 
~ 







