POSTMASTER: Second Class poatage; Notre Dame, IN 48558 Students urged to conserve 
Coal shortage could affect University 
by Mark Perry Staff Reporter 
The decisions of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company(I&M) on the assessment of power during the present coal crisis could have a direct effect on the power supply at Notre Dame, according to Fr. James L. Riehle, director of energy at the University. 
Riehle said that at the present time Notre Dame is receiving some power from I & M, so that its generators are not running at full power. Also I & M power is cheaper than the University mak­ing its own. 
"If I & M decided to cut Notre Dame's power at all," Riehle stated," we must either create our own power to make up the differ­ence or curtail our own usage. If they cut Notre Dame off complete­ly, then we have a real problem." 
University weighs options 

Riehle said that at the present time the University is trying to price the different options to see how much it would cost the University to run in different situations. Once they do get the figures, Riehle commented, the University officials must decide whether or not it is economically sound to run the University in each situation. He added that closing the Universtiy would be the last option, if officials decided it was too costly to run the University. 
Riehle estimated that at the present time the University has about 12,000 tons of coal available. He also said that if the weather situation remains constant (20 de­grees during the day, 0-5 degrees at night), the University would normally use about 160 tons of coal per day. 
"Oil is another alternative," Riehle commented, "since we are running partially on oil at the present time. But to switch totally to oil would be costly, because oil at the present time costs more than coal." This would be another decision that University officials would have to make, Riehle added. 
Although Indiana governor Otis Bowen said Monday that the state was attempting to open the inde­pendent coal mines in Indiana, Riehle commented that universities are very low on the priority list for this supply. 
Possible energy savers 

Riehle also discussed several ways that the University could cut down on its energy consumption. Mentioned as possible energy savers were the closing of athletic facilities and class buildings at 
night, the elimination of night cl_asses like Free University and the conservation of heat for a few hours each night. 
Riehle said that large amounts of energy could be saved by simply shutting down the blow­ers that distribute the heat in each building. 
Student conservation is an extremely important factor in deciding how critical the problem could get, Riehle said. "Ifstudents would simply turn out all unneces­sary lights, based on national figures, we could save .about one­third of our total energy consump­tion. This would mean that instead of using 160 tons of coal per day, we would cut to 100 tons, and 
that could extend our supply at least 30 days. By that time the coal crisis could be solved.:' 
Unnecessary usage cited 
As an example of unnecessary usage, Riehle said that last Sunday night, the rooms in-.....0' Shaugh­nessy Hall were fully lit for only one student. "This is a good example of negligence and pure waste," Riehle commented. 
Riehle stressed this student cooperation, ''because I have the same feelings outside of a crisis situation, but this time from an economic standpoint. This is a trial period to see how we11 we can react to a problem. Students must ask themselves if they really need lights on. If we were more conscientious, we could save a lot of energy and money, not just now, but at any time." 



server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 83 Wednesday, February 15, 1978 


Poet MaCBeth demonstrates 'wit, imagination' 
by Mark Rust 

ties. manipulation that builds on the to Stroke The Peter.' " His other does it all." 
Staff Reporter permutations of the proper noun two animal selections, "The Panda

The evening was prefaced by a Rather than writing a will.
"Lax". He rendered the poem in That Never Was,·: described. by
MacBeth piece, "The Owl," put to MacBeth thought it a good idea to"I see fantasy and humor as rhythmic chortles and gutteral MacBeth as a "sound" poem, and
music. The eerie instrumentals, simply concoct a will poem.
ways of altering people's vision," noises. "If you do it six times "The Badger" were taken from his
arranged by John Colligan, "When I am Dead" was his final
said poet George MacBeth at last before breakfast you will feel new book Buying a Heart.
enhanced the poem's mixture of offering of the evening. In it he
night's Sophomore Literary Festi­splendid,'' he advised the
grand, violent and innocent "The Miehling Dream," a makes the simple request that
val presentation in the Library audience.
images. haunting love poem of a couple's when he dies, he be burie.c~ faceAuditorium. The near capacity Next, MacBeth chose "my oldest suicide pact, was offered as an down because he has bad l!ams
crowd of 250 watched and listened "I always like music before poem that I stiii like," a piece example of MacBeth's belief that a while lying on his back.
to the 46-year-old surrealist iiius­poetry,'' MacBeth told the audi­
entitled "The Drawer". The poem 

poem should try ''to get back to
trate his point through 15 enter­ence. "It seems to create the right MacBeth, who describes himself 
was a list of what was left after his 

taining and thought-provoking emotional atmosphere.'' some ritualized quality.'' as "crazy" about Monty Python.
parents died when he was a boy,

selections of verse. Travelling to the other end of the told the audience that he does not
and with it, MacBeth showed his

MacBeth's first reading, "The spectrum, MacBeth continued his go out of his way looking for the 
MacBeth, a poet, author and serious side. He continued the
Lax Cheer," typified his unconven­selections with a Monty bizarre. "I don't know ifl go out of 
BBC producer was featured in the mood with "The Ward," which
tional style. Written for poet Pythonesque epic called "Orlan­the way. I just have an odd sort of 
third night of the literary festivi-describes as "an intense, quiet
Robert Lax, the "cheer" is a ·word do". He said, "I think the big mind. I see things in a weird way."
poem." The themes of violence 

word here is surrealism. In this Tomorrow evening's SLF
and destreuction that ran through­

piece, Orlando is into the poetry presentation features fiction-writer
24 hour schedule possible 
out the piece are found in many of 

scene, gets in a fight, and turns AnnBeatie at 8 p.m. in the Library
MacBeth's more serious-minded 

into a breakfast cereal. Orlando Auditorium. 
poems. This he attributes to his

for LaFortune Center 
World War II childhood. 
by Loretta Hoch all social life--people can now come A wild wit and absurd 
and go with their cars." Gorch imagination were displayed by 

Plans to open the LaFortune further explained that when the MacBeth in his next series of Student Center on a twenty-four center was open unti14 A.M. in the offerings which he called his hour basis are materializing past, there was only a minimum "Kitchen Poems". He explained through the joint efforts of Student amount of use by the students. In that "I am fascinated by kitchens ­Government and Student Affairs addition, Gorch is skeptical about they are such an arsenal of destruc­Vice President Bro. Just Paczesny. the success of such a project, citing tion." Work to organize a schedule which the problems of security, finance, 
"One of my kitchen poems is 

would provide round-the-clock and organization as unavoidable 
about vegetables," he continued. 

accessibility to LaFortune was difficulties. 
"I dislike vegetables very much,

stimulated by the February 6 Despite the inevitable technical 
particularly antagonistic ones. But 

Campus Life Council proposal to problems, however, the proposed 
actually they have a nice life." In 

institute such a student service. solution of accomodating student's 
the first line of a poem entitled 

The need to provide a twenty­social needs in LaFortune was 
"Marshall," the audience found 

four hour lounge was recognized enthusiastically received at the 
out that ''it occurred to Marshall 

through a "student space study," CLC meeting. Paczesny later 
that if he were to be a vegetable, he 

conducted by Student Gvoernment declared that ''it is a marvelous 
would be a bean." last semester. Executive Coordina­idea." 
The next kitchen item he investi­tor Joe Gill explained the study Paczesny's immediate task is 

gated was a pair of scissors. "This

made it clear that after parietals go developing an efficient, yet 
was a pair of scissors with a

into effect, there is no place for inexpensive plan for alleviating his 
grievance,'' he informed the

students of the opposite sex to primary concern--security. 
amused audience. "He had a

gather on a social basis. Although the hiring of additional 
fascination with a drawer that he

"Darby's Place does stay open security guards would easily re­
was not allowed access to." The

until four o'clock," Gill agreed, solve the problem, he realized that 
scissors described itself:

"but there's only room for some the anticipated cost exceeds the 
fifty people, and students there are practicality of managers, a system "I am dangerous in a crisis usually trying to study," he which would be a mere extension of with knives for legs and a screw continued. the hours during which students for genitals." 
Student Body President Dave already oversee LaFortune. 
MacBeth's fascination with

Bender elaborated on the situation, In reply to Bro. Goch's doubt 
animals became clear in his next

pointing out, "After twelve o'clock concerning the extent to which the 
three readings. One poem was 

on weeknights and two A.M. on center will be utilized during the 
about his cat named Peter. "We

weekends, there's no place for a night, Gill maintained that, "even 
called him The Peter because, like

guy and girl to just relax and talk." if only three or four people are 
the pope, there is only one of him,"

LaFortune Manager Brother there, it is serving an important 
MacBeth explained. "Therefore, it 

Francis Gorch sees no necessity to purpose. After all, it is the STUDENT center, and thus, should followed that his poem, describing Poet George MacBeth spoke to a large crowd in the librarykeep the center open on a twenty­
the 14 ways in which the cat liked

be available to the students at all Auditorium last night. His presentation included music and poetry
four hour basis. He insists, "The human contact, be called '14 Ways readings [Photo by Bill Reifsteck]campus is no longer the center of times." 

..-----~~--~--~----~~~~--~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------~---­the observer Wednesdayl Febrl!_~ry 15_,_197.!!_
2 


News Briefs_____ 
===::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::===::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::::::::: National 
Strike negotiations urged 
As National Guardsmen assembled to convoy coal in Indiana and automakers warned of layoffs soon, President Jimmy Carter called for both sides in the nationwide coal strike to negotiate at the White House and warned of "stronger measures" if that doesn't end the strike. Asked if the "stronger measures" would include invoking the Taft-Hartley Act, Carter said that would be "one of my options.'' He could order miners back to work for an 80-day cooling off period. Carter said he wanted "to end the present stalemate" in the 71-day-old strike. "The negotiations at the White House must be viewed as a final opportunity for the bargaining process to work. "If it does not, I will have no choice but to resort to stronger measures," the president said. United Mine Workers President Arnold Miller said he is ready "to negotiate at any time--the sooner the better." There was no immediate comment from the industry. 


WEATHER 
P~rtly cloudy through Thursday. No large temperature changes. H1gh tomorrow and Thursday in the upper 20s. Low tonight 10 to IS. 
On Campus Today-~ 
12:15 
pm mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 

12:15 
pm seminar, "challenges for a microbiologist in industry," dr. john parker, miles laboratories, inc., 278 galvin, 


4:30pm lecture, "bifurcation and perturbation theory for integra-differential equations," henry c. simpson, california institute of technology, 226 ccmb. 
5:15pm mass, fr. william joy, sponsored by the world hunger coalition, walsh chapel. 
6:30pm meeting, sailing club, rm 204 eng. bldg, new members welcome. 
7 pm meeting, ham radio club, grace hall penthouse. 
7 pm presentation, reception following with representa­tives from american fletcher bank, harris bank, and detroit bank & trust, 122 hayes healy, sponsored by finance club. 
7 pm chess match, 325 math bldg. 
7:30pm talk, american scene cultural series, "the need for capital formation," f.p. adams, us steel corp., carroll hall, smc. 
7:30pm meeting, society for creative anachronism, all welcome, basement of Iafortune. 
7:30pm  reading,  anne  beattie for  the  sophomore literary  
festival,  mem. lib. aud.  
8 pm  ice  capades,  ace,  tickets  $6,5  &  3.50,  nd/smc  

students 112 price wed. and thurs., 8 pm, sat. 12 pm and sun 6 pm shows. 
Thursday morning 
&:40-8 am am this morning, mary jo hicks and pat o'brien, wsnd, 640 am. 
11 am 
talk, "congress and foreign policy " congressman john brademas, haggar hall aud. ' 
CDC workshop 
by Honey McHugh 
The Saint Mary's Career De­
velopment Center (CDC) begins its 
second semester Career Workshop 
~cries today. Today's program will 
focus on the gathering of career 
information and will be followed by 
( ight workshops detailing career 
·elated topics. 
According to CDC coordinator, 
tletsy Twitchell, the workshops this 
·emester will be combined so that 
'imilar topics will be covered in one 
•.vorkshop rather than in many separate sessions. As a result, Twitchell expects a more efficient ,lfocedure as well as an' increased 
1ttendance. 
"We believe that by pairing a .heoretical workshop such as 'skill identification' with a more practical Jne such as 'resume writing', we can better meet the expressed needs of the student body," Twit­chell stated. 
Despite the revised format, members of the Student Affairs staff, Counseling Center and Kath­leen Rice, dean of student affairs, will continue to direct the sessions. 
Students from all classes and majors are invited and encouraged to attend the Workshop series. Sign-up sheets arc available now in the CDC, LeMars Hall. 




Bulla Shed social use over? 
by PhD Russo care by the respective organiza­tions using the center may lead to 
Since its acquisition by Campus Ministry, Bulla Shed has been the site for religious and social events as well as academic and organiza­tional meetings. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C., stated that a rise in the center's popularity has increased university social activi­ties, but, at the same time, lack of 

ERRATUM 
J. Ned Parker, candidate for 
representative to the Indiana State Legislature, was misquoted in an article in Monday's Observer. 
Parker, a Notre Dame graduate 
I
student, was quoted incorrect Y in 
the article as saying he favored a 
business inventory tax. Parker actually stated that he favored removal of the business inventory tax. 

America tix on sale Feb. 20 
America will appear in concert at the ACC with special guest Michael Murphy on March 9 at 8 p.m. Tickets go on sale Feb. 20 for $7.50 and $8.50. There will be a ten ticket limit. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Joseph L. Bauer Asst. Night Editor: J. Louis Bauer layout Staff: John Dondan­ville, Sue Johnston absentees: Mary, Laurie, Anne Features layout: Dom Salemi 
(LAP) 
Sports layout Paul Stevenson Typists: Rich Clarizio, Mary 
Jo Cushing Mark Rust, Beth Rizzo EMT: me 
Day Editor: Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Jerry Perez Ad layout: unknown Photographer: Bill Reifsteck 
"Snap Shot" 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer Is published bV the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mav be purchased for no per veer CS I 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Anoclated Prell. All repro· ductlon rights are reaerved. 

our talented trimmers will give you an exciting new haircut or l'"eshape your present s~yle. Reg. 6.50 now . . . 3.25 
OHer good Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday 
with this ad. Shampoo, blow dry cut extra. 
Ca/1·233-4111, ext. 275 for an appointment. 


elimination of social events. 
Toohey stated that use of Bulla 
Shed leads to "good interchange" 
between students and helps lessen 
the "social space problem" at the 
university. 

Problems have arisen, however, as a result of the popularity of Bulla Shed. According to Toohey, some organizations sponsoring social events have left the center in unfavorable conditions. He stated tha! ~•nee there is no maid, janitor or garbage service, it is necessary
for the organization itself to clean up. According to certain contract 
agreements, each event in Bulla Shed must be considered "official" and open to every member of the 
sponsoring dorm, dorm section, or 
organization with out discrimina­
tion. The organization must pay an 
eight dollar advance paymentwhich 
helps pay such costs as heating and 
use of the Bulla Shed's materials. 
But this payment does little for the 
cost of clean-up when the center is 
left in unkempt conditions. 
Toohey said that organizations who leave Bulla Shed in such conditions ruin the opportunities for following organizations. He offered options for use of the center, stating Toohey cautioned that unless dramatic improvments 
· 

m care take place, social events 
may have to be eliminated. He also stated that possibly a deposit will become necessary and the amount 
f · 
o return will depend on damage
done to the Bulla Shed. 
..,..;.;...;.;.;.;;.;;;,.;.;.;,;;.;;;.;.;.;;.:.;., ....,. 







Tonite! Wed, Feb. 15 
Meeting of the SMC SociaiComm. 
New Members Welcome! 
6:15 Regina Basement ( Student Gov't Rm. ) 
1978 St Mary's College 




SUMMER PROGRAMS 
[L@(miiD@~ 

(May 23··June 23) Travel in Ireland-Scotland-France 
[ffi@~~ 


(June 22-July 21) Travel in France-Germany-Switzerland 
CLASSES AVAILABLE IN Art, Business, History, Italian, Theater 
~~[¥@ 




Student injured by glass 

in salad dressing 
by Steve Needles 

An unidentified Notre Dame stu­dent suffered a chipped tooth while eating dinner at the South Dining Hall Saturday night. The cause: broken glass in his salad. 
Upon closer inspection, dining hall employees determined that the hazardous material was actually contained in the Thousand Island dressing. Immediately, students were warned of the situation over the public-address system and further injuries were avoided. 
When asked how such an ac­cident could have occured, one dining hall official commented that the glass probably came from what is known as a "Duralex salad underliner." These bowls are stored in a pantry directly above a large 35-gallon power mixer which is used to blend the salad dressings early in the afternoon. Officials theorize that one of the under liners fell into the mixer, shattered, and was subsequently blended into the Thousand Island. 
Martha Fanning, a senior from Walsh Hall, also found some of the bits of glass. "I bit down on something hard and I knew right 
away it wasn't supposed to be there," she said. 


"It was then that t---------------------------­

I noticed a commotion at the salad bar. I went up and reported my discovery and was told that other people had found the same thing.'' She commented that she thought the dining hall employees did a "good job" in handling the situa­tion. "They wasted no time in making the announcement," she said. 
When asked what will be done to avert similar mishaps in the future, Robert J. Robinson, senior food director of Saga, stated that he plans to meet with all dining hall workers to emphasize that more care be taken in the preparation and inspection of food. Robinson also stressed that the incident was purely accidental and did not involve malicious intent. 
ID machines 

have problems; 
now repaired 
by Valerie Stefani 

Difficulties experienced with the computer J.D. checking system in North Dining Hall have been alleviated as of yesterday. The machines, which have not been fully operational since the begin­ning of the semester have been repaired. 
"The necessary parts came in today and we hope to have the machines repaired by dinnertime tonight or breakfast tomorrow," explained senior food service director Bob Robinson yesterday. Consequently, the machines operated in time for yesterday's steak dinner. 
Because the machines failed to operate due to original defects and were guaranteed in terms of war­ranty, the cost of repairs will be absorbed by the manufacturing company. 
Since the breakdown of the computer machines, the North Dining Hall has reverted to the manual system of checking I.D.s. Though concerned at· first that people might try to reuse their J.D. for the same meal, the Food Service staff has found this not to be the case. 
. Robin~on discussed the possibi­hty that m the future a charge will be assessed for the temporary meal tickets given to a student who forgets or loses an I.D. 
"In lieu of a valid I.D., a temporary meal ticket will be issued and a charge assessed to the student. If the I.D. is not reused for the same meal, the charge will 1-e removed," Robinson said. 
~ednesday, February 15, 1978 the observer 


Hall Councils ratify new Constitution 
by Michael Lewis Senior StaH Reporter 
Tracy Kee, executive coordinator of the Hall President's Council, announced the ratification of the new Student Government Constitu­tion at last night's meeting in Keenan Hall. 
She said that the constitution will go into effect immediately, and that "the real changes have to take place by April 1," when new SG officials take office. 
As of last night, a total of 17 Hall Councils had approved the docu­ment. It officially went into effect last Thursday, when Holy Cross became the fifteenth hall to vote for ratification. 
Later in the meeting, Fr. Claude Pomerleau of the Faculty Senate's Student Affairs Committee spoke with the HPC concerning the problem of faculty-student contact. 
"I have grown increasingly con­cerned that the relationships between faculty and students are not very good at Notre Dame," he said. The problem, he stated. is that "outside of the classroom there's very few normal inter­actions between the faculty and students." 
He pointed out that there is no place on campus where students and faculty members can "feel comfortable together'' in an infor­mal situation and noted that this has helped to "build up barriers between the faculty and students." 
Grace President Jerry Castellini pointed out that faculty -student contact should not be "imposed." He also noted that the recent Mardi Gras activities may offer an area for future cooperation between faculty and students at an informal level. 
Several HPC members voiced the importance of genuine, volun­tary contact with the faculty to avoid the stigma of trying to use the relationship to receive a higher grade. 
Pomerleau stressed the impor­tance of "informal" and "natural" contacts, saying, "I think we need something different--new types of events that promote more natural relationships.'' 
The HPC and Pomerleau agreed that the problem is to • 'find channels" which will foster student faculty contact. A group of hall 
This week in the Lobby of LaFortune from 12 :00-4 :00 p.m. you can purchase any of the following: 



aaaaaaa 
Tickets to the Junior Class trip to the Dayton
I. Basketball game. This event is open to all students and a $10 deposit is due by Feb 17th. 
Tickets to the Junior Class Ski Trip to Canonsburg, 
2• Michigan on February 18th. $25 for transporta­tion, lift fee and ski rental; only $18 if you have your own skis. 
Junior Class T-shirts on sale for $4.00. Sizes:
3. X-large, Large, Medium & Small. 
ARE YOU COMING UP SHORT AT THE END OF THE MONTH? 
There·s one thing that"s probably common to all college students. They have to watch their finances. Here·s news about some help you may be able to get. 
A1r Force ROTC has four, three and two-year scholarships that prov1de you $100 a month and cover all tuition, books and lab fees. As an AFROTC cadet, you"ll enter an exciting program of Air Force instruction that prepares you for one of the most gratifying management jobs available today. 
Then, .a_s_ a commissioned officer in the Air Force, you·ll find responsibility and challenge from your very first assignment you"ll fi~d that people respect you for what you do best. · · · 
Consider the Air Force as one of your goals, and consider the AFROTC program as a road to that goal. If you need financial help to ~ree your mind for your studies, find out about AFROTC scholar­ships today. 
Contact Capt. Davis at 283-6634 


BOTC 
Gateway too great way of life. 


presidents agreed to meet with the Faculty Senate committee to dis­cuss the problem and possible solutions. 
Also at the meeting, Carroll Hall President Stan Aslanian suggested that individual Saint Mary's hall presidents be granted votes and speaking privileges at future HPC meetings. This move, he said, would "facilitate better operations socially and help bring the two campuses closer together." 
Several hall presidents noted that many HPC activities do not affect SMC, but that the presence of the SMC hall presidents would promote better communication between the campuses. Jayne Rizzo, Lyons hall president, said, "Any situation that brings the two campuses together will further cooperation." Mike Roohan from St. Ed's called the proposal bene­ficial." 
The SMC representative to the HPC, Judy Ecklekamp, said, "There are a lot of things we (ND-SMC) have to work together for. A lot of what goes on here doesn't have anvthin_g to do with us, but a lot of other things do." 

The Council, by an 18-1 vote, appointed a committee to look into the proposal and discuss the extent of future SMC involvement in the HPC. 
Finally, the Rockne Trophy for the months of December and January was awarded to Holy Cross. A blanket drive for ~ppal~chia, a Christmas apprecia­tion dmner for maids and janitors and a Christmas dinner in the dining hall were among the activities that earned Holy Cross the award. 
Sign up 
to give blood 
Residents of Breen-Phillips and St. Ed's halls are asked to sign up this week to donate blood. Inter­ested residents from BP may sign up by the dormitory's front door during dinner. Those from St. Ed's should contact Vince Macisaac at 8855. 
j 
i 
' 
--------------~--------------------r-----­
the Observer Wednesday, February 15, 1978 

Planning, employees credited 

Senior Bar brings in record profits 
by Patrick O'Leary 
The Senior Bar is currently running $20-25,000 in the black. Why has this year's club been so financially successful as opposed to last year's, which finished with a debt of $4,000 in back taxes and payroll? 
According to Senior Bar Mana­ger Jim Dunne, months of planning and the general quality of the employees have contributed to the turn-around. "Throughout the summer," explained Dunne, "My three assistant managers--Ken Ricci, Robert Civitello, and Rp:h Reilly--and I conferred at least once a week on such practical matters ranging from the nights we inten­ded to open to the beer distributors we wished to operate with." 
In August, before the bar was scheduled to open, Dunne and his shffe made several improvements to the building such as installing an ice machine and building a stockade-style courtyard in which to serve drinks. Also, an unused room was renovated and insulated, becoming a .much needed cooler to store beer kegs. "Although the cooler cost us approximately $5,000," added Dunne, "we feel it 


0-C Commission holds meeting 
by Barb Langhenry News EdJtor 
The newly-formed Off-Campus Commission held an organizational meeting last night to clarify misun­derstandings regarding its purpose and to allow members to meet each other. 
The commission was established by the Board of Trustees last fall as a centralized commission which would deal with problems that arise among off-campus students. Specifically, they will deal with rents and leases, listings of living facilities, crime, the relationship between the University and the municipality of South Bend, and the problems and benefits of off-campus life. 
Dave Bender, student body pres­ident, stated that it provides a centralized forum for more efficient communication. To aid in improv­ing this communication and to establish information lines, the group decided to put a bulletin board in the LaFortune Lounge where information pertaining to off-campus students could be posted. The proposal however, must be approved by Br. John Renesh, assistant vice president for l>tudent affairs. 
Bender suggested formulating by-laws, but Bro. Just Paczesny, vice president for student affairs, 1;tated that by-laws are not neces­sary since the commission is a "'loose organization" that is in­tormal and does not want to create problems if there are none. 
He pointed to the already existing Off-Campus Office which is manned mostly by students as a group which handles many off­.:ampus problems and is run on a full-time basis. The Off-Campus Office provides a list of approved housing, handles legal aspects such as contracts and also focuses ln crime. Bender suggested a newsletter ~hat would make students aware of rhe office. Although Darlene l>aJma, representative from the Off-Campus Office, did not think this was necessary, Joe Ungashick, student government off-campus commission, agreed with Bender's idea. John Roos, assoc1ate professor of government and member of the Northeast Neighborhood Associa­tion, agreed to serve as a resource person for the commission. He was contacted after James Roemer, dean of students, stated that it was in the group's best interest to have good relations with the Northeast Neighborhood Association. The other members agreed, stating that [continued on page 7) 
has paid for itself many times over because beer run-outs have been eliminated, and consequently, man hours have been saved." 
Dunne is quick, however, to acknowledge the assistant mana­gers and the bartenders--a combined staff of twenty-eight students--as the major impetus for the Senior Bar's success: "I deeply appreciate how hard the staff has worked this year. All credit goes to them for their honesty and integri­ty." 
All of the workers, including Dunne himself, are paid regular wages and were recruited from the different departments of the Uni­versity. Each was interviewed three times before being chosen. "In the long run I think this scrutiny paid off,'' commented Dunne, "We aren't losing money· on free beers." 
Recently, Dunne has been criti­cized by some club members for not lowering the price of beer in light of the Bar's tremendous earnings. To that question Dunne responded, 'Our main objection to lowering the price from SO cents-­which incidentally is still the lowest price in the area--to say 10 cents is that it would jeopardize the present atmosphere of the club. Any member could come in here and get 
:~::~~~t.?~ a dollar. We don't 
Dunne continued, "Instead we have been rechannelingthe profits back into the club with a variety of. drink specials such as 10 cent beer, 
• • 
• 
1 cent fort~? minutes, T-shirt give • aways, etc. • 
Dunne cited other reasons for not lowering the price for drinks: "Our overhead is high and we are entering a weak season due to the sonow, flu, and basketball. Basket­ball can't hold a candle to foothall




---..• 

Transcendental Meditation e 

season as far as business goes. We Those profits left over at the end grossed more during the Southern of the year, according to Dunne, Cal weekend--$15,000--than for the are donated to the Senior Scholar-. entire month of December. We ship Fund. "This year," Dunne 
· t • added "We anticipate to donate
JUS cant operate_ recklessly." 
$15,000 to the fund." 
• 
• 
• 
• • 
.• 
Special 10% Discount e 
Thurs Feb.l6  7:00  :  On All Merchandise To Notre Dame  :  
Rm. 141 O'Shag.  e & Saint Mary.'s Students. ••••••••••••••••••••••••  


We designed The MBA to help professionals arrive at fast, accurate answers to a broad range of business and financial problems. The same ones you'll face in your busi­ness classes. 
Interest, annuities, ac­counting, finance, bond analy­sis, real estate, statistics, marketing, forecasting, quanti­tative methods and many more course applications are in your hands with The MBA. 
This powerful calculator also features preprogrammed functions that let you perform 
more difficult calculations at the touch of a key. Instantly. Accurately. You may also enter your own programs up to 32 steps long, saving significant time if 
you'redoing repetitive classwork pro0lems. 
The MBA comes with an illustrated 
text, "Cal­

culator Analysis for Business and Fi­nance." This new guide shows 

you how simple calculator analysis can be with The MBA calculator. It's 288 pages of understandable, easy-to-follow reading. And it's coupled to more than 100 real-world ex­amples that show you step-by­step how to make calculator analysis work for you as never before. 
If you're building a career in business, The MBA business financial calculator can be one of your strongest cornerstones. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ~ 
... INNOVATORS IN PERSONAL ELECTRONICS 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
@ 1978 Texas Instruments Incorporated 
INCORPORATED 

Wednesday, February 15, 1978 the observer 
Meeting The Problems of the Handicapped 

by jean powley 
Handicapped individuals in the United States have had many new doors opened to them during the past six months and many others will be opening in the future because of extensive government regula­tions effective last June 3 requiring the removal of physical and program barriers to the handicapped. Those barriers are falling rapidly at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's can be favorably compared to other major univer­sities on this matter. Both schools have formed working committees to examine and correct existing problems and to set policies for dealing with handicapped individuals. Installing ramps and elevators in buildings, providing special toilet facili­ties, cutting curbs and examining academic and residential problems have been the main concerns of these committees thus­far. 
The problem is, according to Jason Lindower, St. Mary's controller, that the federal government has offered no guid­ance in the implementation of its regula­tions. Also, the expense of many of the required changes is prohibitive. ''The government has mandated expensive structure and program changes without allocating any money for it. So, the money must come from the students. I am not arguing that the handicapped student should not be accomodated. The only question is who will pay,'' Lindower explained. 
Nevertheless, both institutions have moved forward and attempted to follow the Department of Health, Education and Welfare's (HEW) new regulations. In the area of admissions, neither school waives any its academic requirements or stan­dards regardless of a person's handicap. "We look at exactly the same things as we would with any other student,'' Elisa Brooks, St. Mary's Director of Admissions said. "If we are worried about the college's facilities or programs, we will talk it over with the student and her parents. There are really not many students that have called a handicap to our attention and an application can no longer legally ask about a handicap. So, often we do not even know," she explained. 
Notre Dame also has had to eliminate the question concerning handicap from its application, according to John Goldrick, Director of Admissions. "Now we will not know about a student's handicap until the reservation has been conflrmed and the medical examination completed," he said. 
All admissions material distributed by St. Mary's now includes a statement that the college does not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, religion or handicap. Next year's Notre Dame application will probably include a statement encouraging handicapped students to attend Notre Dame because, according to Goldrick, it is becoming more and more accessible for the handicapped. • 'This is one of the primary things that everyone is thinking about now," he explained. 

Notre Dame's registrar now has a set policy for pre-registration of handicapped students, too. According to Bernie Cantu, a senior arts and letters student, all he has to do is write to them with a list of his courses and they will assign them to rooms accessible to him. 
No such procedure at present exists at St. Mary's because the problem has not arisen, Registrar Sr. Francesca Kennedy said. "I can't think of any room that is inaccessible. I do know that the distances b<;tween buildings have in some cases presented problems, but we have provided those girls with golf carts to get around in," she explained. 
Housing can create greater problems. Unless the student or her family notifles St. Mary's about her handicap, often the college does not know, Director of Housing Minnie Owens said. "When we do know, we do our best to make some arrangements and work something out. We accomodate them as best we can according to their condition," she explained. All of St. Mary's dorms have elevators and ramps or some kind of access to the ground floor. "The older buildings are more of a problem then the new ones, though," Owens admitted. The college has given special attention to physically disabled students' needs in several cases. A special electrical outlet for a girl's golf cart was installed in one dorm this year. Also, for partially deaf students the college has arranged for the installation of special 
phones. ' 
"In the future, if we know that an incoming freshman or transfer student is handicapped, we will take an accessible room out of the lottery for her,'' Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice promised. 
Four Notre Dame dorms are especially well-equipped to meet the needs of handicapped students. They are Lewis, Flanner, Grace and Howard, according to Br. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice president for business affairs and chairman of the Notre Dame Committee for the Physically Handicapped. The university has com­pletely remodeled one wing of Howard Hall for the convenience and comfort of handicapped students. Restrooms there were made accessible to students in wheelchairs, as were the rooms them­selves. 
"We're in very, very good condition in respect to accessibility,'' Ryan continued. "We've done quite a bit of work during the past few years.'' Both dining halls are now accessible by ramps, as are Sacred Heart Church and the inflrmary. A lift has recently been installed in Haggar Hall, making it accessible to handicapped per­sons, too. During the summer of 1976, curbs all over campus were cut down, making travel in a wheelchair much easier. Finally, special toilet facilities have been installed in O'Shaughnessy, Hayes-Healy, Nieuwland Science Hall, the Center for Continuing Education and the law school. 
The university's main problems with respect to accessibility are now LaFortune Student Center and the Administration Building. It will be very difficult to make either of these structures accessible with­out destroying their architecture, Ryan said. However, once LaFortune is re­modeled it will be much more accessible, he promised. 
St. Mary's has also been busy adding ramps. McCandless Hall and O'Laughlin Auditorium now have new ramps. Others must still be installed in LeMans Hall and the science building, according to Lin­dower. Several restroom facilities remain to be altered, too. However, "in the main, we're in reasonably good shape. The Sisters of the Holy Cross were very foresighted in the construction of these buildings and there are very few curbs on campus," he stated. St. Mary's biggest problem is inaccessibility of its library. "Hopefully, plans for a new library will progress rapidly enough to meet our needs, though," Lindower said. 
In the area of academic life, St. Mary's gives handicapped students quite a bit of individual attention when it is needed. For . instance, a few profoundly deaf students have attended St. Mary's and in one case, notes were taken for the student by other students; a local speech therapist was hired to work with her; she was taught sign language by another local expert; and a writing tutor helped her with her writing skills. Because she had no sound memory, the written word was just a symbol to her and writing was difficult. 
"I think people who are deaf have greater difficulty than any other handicap. Loss of hearing is a far more isolating experience than loss of sight. There-is a whole world a deaf person cannot pene­trate--that of the speaking world," Gaill Mandell, assistant vice president of aca­demic affairs explained. 
A deaf student's foreign language requirement is usually waived by the college, just as a blind student's science lab requirement is waived. Blind students are also permitted to use tape recorder during class. And when braille texts are not available, students are employed to read to them. 
"Most of the handicapped students who have stayed at St. Mary's have not had severe problems and have been happy and well-adjusted," Mandell said. "Students with more severe problems have usually left, but with no bitterness. It is hard for them to ask for special help. That takes a lot of humility and assertiveness. So they depend greatly on others awareness of their needs. In addition, we are not really equipped to give them too much special help. Our teachers are not trained for such special education problems," she con­tinued. "Some teachers are very flexible, giving students quite a bit of special attention. But some other teachers simply cannot adjust their subject matter for the disabled student," Mandell concluded. 
Before she taught several deaf studentj. Sr. Eva Hooker, chairman of the St. Mary s English department, "never realized how much I talked to the blackboard." When there is a deaf student in the class, a teacher simply cannot turn her back to the class. ''It's just a matter of being aware of the student's disability. There must be some one-to-one teaching of the student, too, when needed. Other students are usually also very aware of the problem and are willing to help," Hooker said. 
Although certain requirements may be waived, "none of St. Mary's academic standards are ever waived for handicapped students. In general, all of our disabled students' grades have been excellent. They have added tremendously to the college community and brought out the humanity in others," Mandell stated. 
Notre Dame's academic attitude toward the handicapped is very similar to St. Mary's. At Notre Dame, each case is handled individually. "I've riever had any problems with either students or teacher.'' Bernie Cantu related. "I've never con­fronted anyone acting super strange or anything. And as for teachers, the only problem is that sometimes they forget about me and schedule fllms or special classes in places inaccessible to me, like the third floor of the administration building. As soon as I mention it to them, however, the situation is always cor­rected." 
Notre Dame's library has a variety of special services for the handicapped of both St. Mary's and Notre Dame. For those in wheelchairs and with other mobility problems, assistance to and from the canteen and the faculty offices is provided. When needed, assistance is also given in use of the reference library, the card catalogue and in obtaining books. Restrooms in the building are very accessible to persons in wheelchairs, too. Finally, an electrical outlet and voltage converter for the charging of golf cart or wheelchair batteries have been installed. 
A special reader for use by the visually handicapped has recently been acquired by the library, as have large print news­papers. Also, a special room has been set aside for their use when listening to tapes. 
In the area of student affairs and activities, Notre Dame has taken its fust step by appointing Br. Viator as the university's flrst Director of Handicapped Kathleen Rice. "We are more sensitive to it now, although we still have not had any problems. It is our obligation to reach out to these students in a special way," Rice said. 

"Most of our activities are attend­ing-oriented (plays, concerts, lectures) rather than participation-oriented (dances, sports), so there is no problem with them not being able to attend," Director of Student Activities Mary Laverty explained. "But we are open to any ideas that our physically disabled students have about functions they want. They just aren't verbal about their needs," she concluded. 
The official position of Notre Dame security is that the campus is and should be accessible to handicapped individuals by car. However, individual security officers react differently, according to Bernie Cantu. ''The officers react personally. Many of them seem to ignore my handicapped parking sticker," he said. 
St. Mary's will provide its students with golf carts when necessary so that they are able to go from class to class. Since the campus is open to all traffic, however, there is no problem with access. Several preferred parking spaces are reserved for handicapped individuals in the LeMans lot, thOU£h. 
No special sports teams for the handi­capped exist on either South Bend campus, although the physically disabled are free to participate in any sport for which they are qualifled. In the area of spectator sports, Notre Dame makes special arrangements for its handicapped fans. There is now a special section for wheelchair seating in the Athletic and Convocation Center so that disabled persons may see basketball games, concerts and other programs held there. A special section for wheelchairs also exists in the stadium. However, this area is basically for visitors, according to Bernie Cantu. Instead of sitting there, Cantu contacts the ticket office very early in the year and they reserve special tickets next to the entrance of one of the student sections for Cantu and his roommates. This arrangement has worked out very well for him every year, he said. 
The situation at Notre Dame for handi­capped students has improved immensely over the past few years, Cantu stated. "I had· a really hard time when I fust came here. They built a ramp into my hall and into the South Dining Hall, but it was still very hard to get around. Many times the difficulty in getting around still stops me from going to things;" Cantu admitted. 
"This new committee has really helped the physical situation on campus. What ~ey need now· is a set policy for dealing wtth the problems that come up. How is 
*Observer 
Features 
Student Affairs. He was named to this position in November. He will act as a liason between the students and the university. Notre Dame's official coordi­nator of handicapped services and facility alterations, however, is Ryan. He is also chairman of the Committee for the Physi­cally Handicapped which began a year in advance of the law's passage. It meets regularly to discuss problems of handi­capped students and staff members that 
have come to their attention and how to rectify the situations. Students, admini­stration and faculty are all represented on the committee. 
Until now, St. Mary's has never made any special provisions for handicapped students in the area of student affairs because there was never any need, according to Dean of Student Affairs everyone going to deal with such and such when it comes up? Right now they are very ad hoc in their dealing. Communication on what to do when confronted with a problem 
is now what's needed," Cantu suggested. Cantu is the under.l.tfaduate representa­tive on the committee. 
' Thirteen handicapped students are now enrolled at Notre Dame and approximately four are enrolled at St. Mary's. The problems for these student have decreased because of the attention they have received and the future bodes well. 
"Notre Dame's posture will be dictated by campus conditions. We must follow the law, but older universities have more difficulty adapting their old buildings than the newer universities do. It is unrealistic to expect every college to do the same thing," Ryan concluded. 

University Of Notre Dame Special 

Come to a FREE SPEED READING LESSON Increase Your Reading Speed 50-1 OOo/o 
Our Average Graduate Increases Their Reading Rate 9 Times And Comprehension 11 °/o. 
COMPARE AND DECIDE 

Dynamic Reading Systems Inc.  Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Inc.  
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your  Partial refund of the price of the  
DYNAMIC READING SPEED or you will receive a FULL  course if you fail.  
refund.  
Advanced Course  No known advanced course known at this time.  
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to retake the  Their graduates are required to pay  
course to extend their skills at no additional charge.  a registration fee to retake the course.  
Our professional instructors are required to do extended  NO exams given.  
research after the initial training period for further insight,  
and take written exams.  
Our instructors are required to take reading proficiency  NO reading proficiency evaluations given.  
evaluations.  
20-50% discount on books.  NO discount on books.  
Tuition Assistance Payment PI an  Contractual obligation with finance Charge.  
NO FINANCE CHARGE!!  

i i· 
I 


ATTEND A FREE LESSON: 

Wednesday February,15 12Noon, 2:00, 4:00, 6:00PM 
Thursday February, 16 12Noon.. 2:00, 4:00, 6:00PM 
All Meetings Held At The CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION RM. 14 Downstairs 

~~Knowledge is a reflection of reading" 

Dynarnic Reading Systems Inc. 
A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing totally new concepts. 
1721 CROOKS RD., TROY, Ml48084 (313) 366-1230 
Copyright 1977 Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
Wednesday, February 15, 1978 the observer 
-·
0-C Commission organizes at first meeting 
[continued from page 4] Palma cited a problem with that the University cannot control ministry for off-campus students, also discussed. Palma suggested the neighbor's view of problems off-campus parties where cups are the contracts signed between but Paczesny did not see any action general information geared to would be good. sold as a potential issue. "There students and landlords indepen-necessary since there are parishes transfers be developed and infor­
Roemer highlighted specific have not been any problems, but dent of the off-campus office before in the area and "you don't bring mation regarding housing be matters coming under the prob­this may change," she stated. the lists are released. "It is a the priest to the people, the people distributed to international stu­lems and issues the group was Selling cups could result in legal problem of management," she should be trained to go to him." dents before they arrive on cam-chartered to deal with. He elabor­complications. explained. The problems transfer and inter-pus. ated on the problems with the bars Ungashick suggested that the list Roemer brought up the issue of national students encounter were citing littering, crime, underage of University approved houses be *"******""""*"ltlt***************************************** 
drinking and relationships between released .m January stnce. "the b"tg ** / * the bars and the University as rushforhousescomesdirectlyafter * Howard -Bodin and the World Hunger Coo ition : 
potential issues the commission Christmas." Palma, who stated 7ft-* could deal with. the lists will be ready soon, noted 7ft-* Roemer mentioned involvement 
with leases, but Paczesny Faster's Mass 1* present A FORUM ON i* 
expressed some concern about getting involved with landlord/ client problems. The problems, he 5 15 
stated, are usually reciprocal, and today at :: WORLD HUNGER * 
The Hunger Coalition's first: :Paczesny did not want landlords 
Faster's Mass of the semester will 7ft-* calling to have the University 
discipline or with the take place today at 5:15 in the* d d b p f 8 ., 'L *
negotiate 

students. "We won't do the dirty Walsh Hall chapel. Celebrating: COn UCfe Y r0 · 051 0 eary 7ft­work the landlord wants us to do.'' the liturgy will be Fr. William P* 
d w d d F b : 
Paczesny stated. Joy. Currently doing graduate* 1 e nes ay e
To ay 15 * 
studies in theology at Notre Dame, 7ft-f • J • *Roemer also discussed transpor­
Joy is a priest of the Archdiocese of ~ *tation and co-ops. Members of the 
7 00 H d H II
commission noted that the bulletin Boston. Since ordination he has...-* 
been involved in inner-city ministry : : pm.-0 war a *board could be used as a base for as well as several peace and justice * :
forming car pools. programs in the Boston area. 
¥-¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥+¥¥• 
NOTICES Two Marquette GA tickets. Will pay top 
FROM THE 23 HOSTESSES:
dollars. Pahl, 6755. 

Thanks to all who made pour party a Anyone wishing to register and vote in special success, with special thanks to
My Marquette grad father needs 2 tix 
the Indiana May elctions shr~ld contact the guys who helped clean up.....and the
Classified ads

Moat 4-1-4001 before spring break. badly. Will pay much $$$$. Please lucky winners are:
phone 1735. 

Bob Koval 
Dissertations. manuscripts, papers ty­Dan Murphyped. IBM selection II. Linda's Letters, Needoneortwofemaleapt. mates. N.D. 
We'll be in touch with you!
287-4971. Apts.. call 284-4953 or 288-8767.
LOST AND FOUND TO:
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. Need ride for three to the New York City
WANTED Rudy, Goobs, Renr.ee, T9 ·'J Mirdi~. 
area over spring break. Call Doug, John
LOST: Green and gold ski cap, lost in Shevawn. Mary, Katie, Barb, Jane,
or tom at 3414.

Accurate. fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul, Maureen, Kate, Sister Jean, Christie,
232-0746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm. 
8540. Need ride to Chicago on the 17th. Back to Ellen, Lee, Eileen, Kit, Patty, Koral,
NEED TWO GA TICKETS FOR LOYOLA
school on the 19th. Call 3583. Kathy, Threse, Chris, and Cindy -----Be 
Typing in home. Fast, accurate, reason­FOUND: One camera. Call 3601 to B-BALL GAME. CALL 6740. my valentine?able. Phone 272-7866 anytime. 
identify. OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer and year W. Skeffinton Higgins
NEED SIX GA AND FIVE STUDENT
round Europe, S.America, Australia,TYPING DONE. REASONABLE RATES. LOST: One red and green scarf, probably Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, TICKETS FOR THE MARQUETTE Despite Ponsetta's and Corzine's abuse­CALL 8086. in South Dining Hall. Call 6326. expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor­GAME. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL with the foot-the Green Machine will roll
KEVIN -287-5737.

mation-write BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. on the court during halftime at MarquetteBus service to Chicago every Friday. LOST: Student basketball tickets. A­
14, Berkeley Calif. 94704.

Buses leave the circle at 6:05 for tickets round South Dining Hall. Call 2141. Need Marquette tickets. Student or GA. Lynchie,and info call Shep 8330. Call Brian 272-5843.
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS: Do you keep your promises?LOST: A pair of large brown faced Seasonal and year-round clubs; good Sharonlynn
House to rent or sell, Napolean Blvd. Wanted: Ride to Fort Lauderdale for two
eyeglasses in a brown case. Reward. playing and teaching background. Call

One mile from campus. Telephone Call Rockey 1773. girls for spring break. Will share driving
301-654-3770 or send two complete Jane-444
287-5806. and expenses. Call Jean or Mo ­
resumes and two pictures to: Col. R Didn't your mother ever teach you the
4-1-4001.

FOUND: Silver wire framed glassses Reade, WTS, 8401 'Connecticut Avenue, correct posture for sitting on a sofa? Mink coat, full length to sell. Price outside the ACC before Maryland game. Suite 1011, Chevy Chase. MD 20015. DKP-265
negotiable. Call 287-5806. Call1475. Two girls need ride to Columbus Ohio weekend of Feb. 17. Sue-4-1-4359.
Need one GA Marquette ticket. Will pay Gerry,
Near campus, patially furnished two or LOST: Maroon ski jacket at the Library your price. Call Russ at 8772. You're a proctologist's Dream. Thethree bedrooms. Mornings, evenings, Need two NC State tix. Call Vicki, 6751.
Bar Sat. nite. Special X-Mas present. younger back-up sister.
272-6174. 
Reward--call Kevin 1655. Need two tickets for Marquette. Bill 8772. Brandy, 
or

Looking for a band for your party FOUND: One student hockey ticket. If Intellectual conversations are worth twoformal? Attalla can give you what you you can identify it it is yours again. Call WANTED: 2Marquette tickets (student). dollars and also fun. 
nred. For the best rock and boogie 8655. Reasonable price. 
Call Pat, 1052.

a•.:-und, call Fred at 277-3448. 
To those infamous wife swappers,LOST: One blue ski glove (left hand) Must have one GA Marquette tic. Will PERSONALS Gus and Mo, Dave and Chuck, Drew & 
,~~~srendental Meditation: Learn more between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on pay$$$. Call Bill1978. Danny;3.1x.u t~'. TM program. Thursday, Feb. Thursday, Feb. 2, approx. 4:45 pm. If Mon amour, Mon Mitch, Rocky,1!1, 7 pm in rm. 242 O'Shag, or call found please contact George at 1248. Marquette tix wanted, GA or student. OBSERVE RITES: Tom and Brian.
2'32-2803. Call 8372. I loved the carnation and the message. Flahertyinsl<y (with the wrongest pants) FOUND: A valuable pen, between 0'1 It is good to know when one is To the lurchiest preppie and ·1is ND AND SMC ARTISTS: We are Shag and Chern Eng. Bldg. Call 3869 to NEED TIX TO MARQUETTE. CALL appreciated. sidekicks, etc.
establishing individual studios and a claim. "mom" To our Jack and crooning
KATE* 1264. favoritegallery on our upper level. Work, exhibit 
Dwayne,and sell in a pleasant atmosphere. We LOST: San Fransico lisence plate-key Seniors: Looking for a little extra cash for Belated Happy Valentines Day to five and that Billeachkoo (you too, Jeffrey)
want a good mix of painting, photogara­
chain with the name "Maureen" please this semester, i.Jut only want to work a sweethearts: Kacey French, Chris Brendan and Bob,
phy, sculpture, silk screen, picture Datzman, Kathy Mills, Patty Meehan,
call 6856. one or two day a week schedule? Pizza Tim, my man and Co. 
framing, handcrafts, etc. Apply for space and Betty B-P. Love, JO.
Hut at Edison Rd. is looking for people Andy, Jim, and Andy and Tom -plus
at the Aquinas Book Shop, 435 S. LOST: A pocket camera somewhere like you. Call 233-3827. Mark W.Michigan St. between North Dining Hall and Admini­Mark, To members of DOC lnt'l stration Building on Saturday of Snow Rioe needed to Bloomington I.U. Feb. 17. Congratulations on your first "yes". So wherever they are
Logan volunteers and intersted students: storm. Please call Ruth, 1317. Call Hal1171. far you are batting 1000! Continued good and to the Jewish mothers everywhere.Ice Capades trip for this Sat., Feb 18th. luck! 
Love and kisses on Valentines day
Bring a friend along and meet us at the Sue One day late
Need ten Marquette tickets. Make offer.

Logan Center at 10:30 am and we will 
Call Joe. 234-0980. Boland and Blazek, Inc. 
return at 2:45 pm. We need a list of 
FOR SALE Tom, PS: Reward for any info regarding Theo.
volunteers for this one! 
Desperately need four GA tickets for DiHo! B. Bear. 
PS: Don't forgeLthe St. Valentine's Day Marquette. Call 1423.
Massacre party is also this Saturday. Tracy Gage,
Remaining three student B-Ball tickets. Jim F.,
Feb. 18 at Art's house. We will pick up at I'm madly in love with you!
3819 after 11 pm. Need GA Marquette tickets. Will pay I would rather be thought of as
the Notre Dame Main Circle and at the A Fan
money. Chris 283-1023. Peppermint Patty thanHoly Cross circle at St. Mary's at 9:00 
Marantz 2216, three months old. Best The Red Baron 
pm, 10:00, and 11:00. Remember to need ride to on Happy Valentine's Day!
offer, call Mike 1580. Need two or four Marquette tix. 8504 or Desperately Chicago 
come dressed up in the 1920's style or Friday! Call Tim at 1042.
8502. you won't get in. Any questions or Frozen yogurt machine. Great for money Whatever happened to romantic men? If 
comments feel free to call Jeanne Conboy minded student. Refreshing for the NEED UP TO EIGHT GA TIX FOR Haircuts cheap, styles and trims. SMC, any still exist, Hot Toes and the(284-4391) or Art Koebel (287-7509). warm days ahead. Call Erma at Taco MARQUETTE GAME. CAU 1772. 4530. Betsy. Backward Mountie would like to know. 
Rico, 291-3142.

NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Need four GA tix for Marquette. SMC
I am in dire need of 2 Marquette B-r.;all Dear Fr. Grif-
Inc., Professional ZTyping Service, IBM 4530 -Betsy.
FOR SALE: BIG 981 turntable, only three tix. Will pay your price. Call1612 Thanks for being the beautiful and Coreceting Selectrics. 85 cents per page 
months old. Comes with a SHURE thoughtful person you are. 
minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you Kalamazoo,
M91ED cartridge and a walnut base and WANTED: Two Marquette tix. Wiil pay Love, "0. Mom" 
want the best." Come live with me in sin.
dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. reasonable sum of$. Call 1612. 

Toledo FOR RENT FULL COLOR COTOON BOWL PIC­Need two Marquette GA tickets. Call TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. Diane 7883. Overeaters Anonymous meeting is 
now on campus! Call 289-6021 for time and place.$
Available for September, five bedroom New GE 19" color TV won in raffle. $300. Nt:ed 4GA tickets to any home basketball house, also three bedroom apartment. Call 287-1972. game. Call 4-1-5745. 
Roxy,

Call Nancy Humbarger 234-9364. FOR SALE: Eight "studio series" BASF Need ride to Pittsburgh area after 
Happy Belated Birthday. Love, For rent next school year. Completely blank reel to reel tapes. Professional Wednesday. Call Val 7088. 
Pete, Cath and Curls furnished four bedroom house a couple of 1800 foot studio tapes are still in factory blocks from cc:~lpu; ~~o security wrapping. Only $40. Call Gene at 1694. Two tickets for Marquette. Call Rich, 
Easy job. Call between 8 am and 2 pm. 233-7949. 

-
u~ob:ems. yood neighborhoorJ. Easy 1173. 
walk to campus. Call 277-3604. FLANNER RECORDS ALBUM SALE: All $7.98 list LP'Is only $4.99. All $6.98 list Two tickets for NC State game. Call Rich John, Two furnished houses for rent next school LP's only $4.49. (plus tax). Sale ends or Joe, 1173. "How did you get to be so.....macho?" 
jasmine

year. Nine month lease 4 bedroom and 5 Sunday, Feb. 19. Flanner records, 322 I think I know: incense. Billy bedroom --near N D and off street Flanner, phone 2741. Need ride to Bloomington I.U. Friday -­
Joel, a crackling fire, wine, lOU's and parking. Call 234-2626. any1ime after 11 am. Call Vicki, 6751. 
raincoats Jor snakes! Love , cutes. 
~~----~---------------------------------------------------------------~~c 
Wednesday, February 15, 1978
8 
the observer 

Tracksters claim first in K of C meet 
by Frank LaGrotta If Piane was "pleased" Satur­Sports Writer day, he was anything but the night before as his squad finished a The mood around the Irish track disappointing fourth in a field of office last weeke,d was mixed as five teams at the Indiana Big State Coach Joe Piane and his squad Indoor Track Meet held at Purdue experienced both sweet victory and University. The Irish concluded bitter disappointment. Friday's efforts with a scant 261h 
Victory came on Saturday as points to trail (in order of their Piane and his two-mile relay team finish) Purdue University (88 jetted to Cleveland, Ohio to com­points) Indiana University (72 pete in the Knights of Columbus points) and Ball State University Track Meet. Needless to say, the (32 Y1points). trip back to South Bend Sunday They managed to edge the morning was a happy one for the Sycamores of Indiana State Irish runners as they savored their University who tallied only 20 first place finish in the race. No points. Piane obviously found little one was happier than Coach Piane. to be happy about the Irish finish. 
"I was really thriiied with the "I think we could have done way we took control of the race better. We definitely have a better right from the gun." Of Chuck squad than our performance Aragon, Peter Burger, Bill All­showed. Of course, Purdue and mendinger and Jay Miranda, the Indiana University have outstan­runners who comprised the ding programs with super winning relay team Piane com­personel." mented: "They just dominated the Outstanding individual field. No one ran with us. Our time performances for Notre Dame in­of 7:46 wasn't outstanding but we cluded Perry Stow's first place were pleased nonetheless." finish in the pole vault. Stow 
Monte Towle 
Frank McGuire 
A Tribute 
Actually, it wasn't until two years ago that I realized Frank McGuire and AI McGuire are not related. Not only have both been coaches of national college basketball champions, but are also products of the streets of New York city. Besides that, they are close friends. In fact, AI even played under Frank at St. John's University in the late 1940's, early I<)SO's. And this Saturday, Notre Dame has the unenviable fortune to go up against Frank McGuire and his South Carolina Gamecocks in Columbia in an NBC-TV regional telecast. 
This is Frank McGuire's 14th season as South Carolina coach. Going into this year. he had guided the Gamecocks to 236 wins against only 107 losses. Other than DePaul's Ray Meyer and Washington's Marv Harshman, McGuire is the only active coach with at least 500 total collegiate victories and the only coach ever to record 100 wins at each of three different schools; St. John's, North Carolina and South Carolina. In addition, he has also been named National Coach of the Year while at each school; in 1952 at St. John's, in 1957 at North Carolina and in 1970 at south Carolina. His 1957 North Carolina team won the National Championship. In 1%2, he coached both the St. John's basketball and baseball teams (2nd baseman-Lou Carnesecca) to the NCAA finals. 
In a recent telephone conversation, Coach McGuire talked of the current season, one in which South Carolina has hovered around the .500 mark. Like last year, it's been tough for McGuire's team in their seventh year as an independent estranged from the Atlantic Coast Conference. "We've been trying to get back into the ACC for the last few years," McGuire admits. "But the football program disfavors such a move. Sure our schedule is quite tough but I'm looking ahead to wins in our last few games this year." 
The killer schedule includes Minnesota, Alabama, Clemson(twice), Kentucky, Georgetown, Virginia Tech, arquette, Furman(twice) and Notre Dame. so why does South Carolina choose to take on such a challenge? It could be a matter of pride. South Carolina captured the ACC tournament title in its last season in the conference. After going independent, most ACC schools declined to play the Gamecocks anymore so McGuire filled the void with powerhouses from all over the nation. Early on, the move was justified as McGuire led the Gamecocks to the NCAA tournament for three straight years and to the NIT the following year. But in the last three years, the Gamecocks havecome up dry. Even then, the losses have thrown scares into many teams much like Marquette's victory in double overtime over south Carolina two weeks ago. Marquette's slow-down play was just another example of why McGuire would like to see a 30 second clock in the college game. 
•'I think we should go along with the 30 second clock in the last three to five minutes of a game," McGuire reasons. "College basketball is competing against the NBA for the fans. The fans get upset with such slowdown play. Besides, the time clock would make for a better game and require better coaching skills in the last few minutes of a game like in the pros." 
McGuire ought to know. He coached the Philadelphia Warriors for the 1961-62 season to a 49-31 mark. In that season, he developed a close relationship with Wilt Chamberlain who scored 100 points in a game against the New York Knicks that same year. 
Getting back to the collegiate level though, McGuire analyzes the recently-popularized four corners offense as merely a reflection of a ploy used by coaches many years ago. 
"We used an offense quite similar to the four corners over 40 years ago when I was playing for St. John's," McGuire notes. "It was a delay type offense that featured backdoor passes for easy layps. The four corners offense has won a lot of games for teams that are able to execute it properly and usually, the opposition doesn't know how to defend it." 
Frank McGuire is a man who has devoted a career to coaching basketball. Last February, mcguire was voted into the National Basketball Hall of Fame and the arena of"Carolin Coliseum was renamed in honor of the legendary coach. He is the author of three books on basketball, runs a prestigious basketball school for boys and girls every summer and is always on demand for lectures and clinics. . 
Two years ago, Notre Dame was lucky to escape from Carolina Coliseum with a 90-83 victory. Another Irish win this year won't be any easier and credit that to the genius and class of this Frank mcGuire. The respect Notre Dame must show this man is only mutual to what he says about our

-school. "When I was growing up in new York, one was wise to admit his allegiance to notre Dame or risk trouble," McGuire recalls. "Notre Dame is a great institution and as the NCAA becomes more conference·oriented, Notre Dame has the best chance of any school as surviving as an independent.'' 
But first, let's survive South Carolina on Saturday. 
recorded a winning vault of 15'6". Other first-place finishes included Steve Welch's 8:58.5 winning mark in the two-mile and Chuck Aragon's performance in the 880­yard run. Aragon was clocked at 
1:54.80 in the event. 
This Friday and Saturday, February 19 and 20, the Irish head for Ypsilanti, Michigan and the Central Collegiate Championship Meet. The field will include many Big Ten and Mid-America conference schools as well as independants which include Penn State University and the University of Pittsburgh. Piane looks to the weekend competition as a chance for his squad to redeem their poor performance at Purdue. 
"In order to do well at the Centrals, we'll need fine perfor­mances from many individuals. I have no doubt that we have the talent on this squad to qualify a few people for the NCAA Indoor Championship Meet." 
The NCAA meet is scheduled to be held in Detroit in March. 
SMC to hold sports festival 
During the months of February and March there will be a recreational "Winter Sports Fes­tival" at St. Mary's College. According to S. Mary's Athletic Director, Kathleen Cordes, the purpose of the Festival is ''to draw students to the athletic facility and to show them that February and March don't have to be dormant months at all." 
The St. Mary's Swim Team will sponsor a water volleyball night Wednesday, February 22. Mary Ellen Cassidy is running the exhibition, which is open to all St. Mary's students. St. Mary's sports commissioner. Amy Hart­zell, will hold a syncronized swimming clinic in the Regina pool on February 16, at 7 p.m. 
There will be a racketball clinic on February 15, in the Angela Facility. Featured will be Jean Gorman, competitive racquetball player and Director of Financial Aid at St. Mary's. Goman will discuss strategies and tech­niques. Racquetball intramurals will start February 27, and are open to all St. Mary's students. 
Other intramural activities will be abundant at St. Mary's during the months of February and March. Basketball intramurals begin February 12, and are expected to follow in the footsteps of the exciting volleyball intra­murals held this fall. 
The student-faculty tennis tournament is slated to begin this week and according to Louise Purcell, chairman of the program, "the tournament will be a good way for students and faculty to interact outside of a classroom situation." 
A new program at St. Mary's will be the Co-Ree basketball and volleyball to be held on March 30 and Feb. 30 respectively. The events will be run by Rose Antoon and will be held at Angela Athletic Facility. Any student from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame is invited to come and participate in one night tourna­ment from 7 to 10 p.m. 
Three special interest groups are forming during the Winter ports Festival. A Karate club will meet on Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8:00 and anyone interes­ted in gymnastics is welcome at club meetings held Sundays at 
1:00. Both of these activities will be held at Angela Athletic Facil­ity. A ski program run through the physical education depart­ment will be held on Mondays from 5:30-10:30 and will travel to the slopes of Buchanan, Mich. 


,. 
J. ·~lfll. 
I 
~ 


These three Irish tracksters played a key role in Notre Dame's first place finish in the two-mile relay in the Knights of Columbus meet. The Irish must now prepare for the Central Collegiate Championships. 
[Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
Paul Stevenson::::===:====:=:==========::=:===============:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::=:====::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::=:=::::: 
The Irish Eye 
:====:=============================:=:=:=========::::::===================:=:=:=============:=·A Tough Journey
The fact that the Notre Dame basketb!ill team has only three weeks remaining in their regular season seems almost impossible. Didn't the football season just end. The otton Bowl !Can't be that long ago. 
Well, all the action on the gridiron is over. The pep rally televised on ABC a couple weekends ago brought an end to a memorable campaign. But looking back to the start of that sea$on, ther were not many Irish enthusiasts who would have thought that this year would be one to remember for footbalL 
However, after that lone loss on the gridiron many were still excited because this would be the year that the Irish cagers would win it all. Yes, and after the first few games, no none could doubt that. But then there was Christmas. However, the Irish came back to win nine games in a row 
. and things were looking great again. 
But, then there was Sunday, February 12, the day the DePaul Demons upset Notre Dame in overtime. That doesn't matter though. the rish will still get there NCAA bid, right? Even that one point loss could not matter or dampen the hearts of Notre Dame fans. 
Well, the Irish are now 16-4 and although an NCAA bid may seem eminent to many, there is no guarantee. South Carolina is waiting for the Irish to visit. The Gamecocks showed Marquette two weeks ago that they could perform on a hardcourt. The double overtime victory by the Warriors was definitely a hard-fought triumph. Surely, Frank McGuire and company plan to be jsust as hospitable with the Irish and give Notre Dame a supreme tests. 
After South carolina, the Irish have to prepare for the Wolfpack. Nor~h Carolina State will be another vigorous confrontation for Notre Da1.1e's quintet. If we look beyond the Wolfpack the next challenge the Tri.,J-..,..JI encounter will be Marquette. That marks three consecutive · T Ju; th:tt Notre Dame will have to be primed and teady to play to tl..!;, .tmo,1 potential in order to win. 
If Notre Dame should falter in all three of those contests, that would give the Irish a loss in four of their last five gatnes. In addition, with all the balance and excellent teams in the country, the NCAA could decide to bypass a slumping Irish squad. There are several independent schools in the Midwest that are competitive enough to play in the NCAA tournament. If the NCAA feels the Irish ate on the decline, it will be a long spring break. 
But, all that is what could happen if Notre Dame does not play to their potential. If the Irish cagers perform to their capabilities, things could begin to brighten. 
All season long, there has been so·mething about that magical mark of 20 wins. Well, the NCAA invitations are announced on Sunday March 5. If the Irish want to reach that mark before that deadlihe, they have to win four of their next five games. With Notre Dame's upcoming schedule, that task will not be an easy one. 
But no one said the road would be easy. The Irish definitely have the ability. Their fate lies in their own hands. Whether they will be in St. Louis next month will depend on them. 
Yes, many cannot understand how a team can be five points up and have possession ofthe ball with less than two minutes left in overtime and lose. Well, that game is behind the Irish. The Notre Dame cagers have to forget about those errors and try to improve over the next few games in preparation for their goal, the NCAA's 
Marquette lost to DePaul at home last year, 77-72. The Warriors then lost their next two games to Detroit and Witchita State, respectively. These losses, by last year's National Champion, came at about the same time as Notre Dame's fall to DePaul. Marquette even lost their last regular season game to Michigan. 
But, they still put everything together in the end and proved they had what it takes when it counts. The time is now for the Irish. Take each game one at a time and attain that goal that seemed so far away when the season was tipped off in November. 
Each game is just as important as the other. In addition, each contest is a chance to improve and prepare for that final battle in St. Louis that the whole nation will be watching. 



Holy Cross refund Notre Dame and St. Mary's students desiring a refund for the February 8 Holy Cross game should bring their student tickets and ID card to the second floor windows of the ACC from 9-12 and 1-5 February 13-17 and February 20-24.  Swimmers topple BG The Notre Dame swimming team defeated Bowling Green yesterday at Rockne Memorial, 59-54. The meet was one that was rescheduled after being cancelled in January. A full story on the Irish victory will be in tomorrow's Observer.  




