


.. "' ..... 
ta 
E 
-
"' 
"C 
c 
ta 41 
E 
ta 
"C 
-
~ Q c CIC c ·;;.. "' 41 .. 
41 
c. 
ta 
c. 
fl) 
~ 
G.l 
c 
'E 
41 
"C 
.a 
"'
-
c 
Q) ·= Cll c 
"C G.l 
c. 
Cll 
"C 
c 
ta 
.c 
1­

1-D 
...... 
Q 
z 
X 0 
> 

Rally honors National Champions 
SMC Board 
appafnfs co-ex commissioner 
,by Caroline Moore it furhier~ ../ · 
.w~.:e;..c:~~geatc~r-::r.~:'!k~~J~~ ~E=:i~~!~~ ~..,;r·~~
until April. She is replacing Mary I-Ia.rtr:~llan~?tW~~q ~~~ ~~?i!J$t Ann Fuchs whCJ is studying abroad · sp()rts scli~dul(l whtcij isvety ft:tlL~f. this semester. Fuchs, in a letter CJf activities/ A doubles tennis. to~r:~ recommendation, highly praised nam,ent.~iously <l~laye4 ~Yt¥~< Mullaney saying she is ''compe· snOW storm~ and. C)tgaiii~ationa.t tant reliable, enthusiastic and will rneetin~ for exercise ·dubs .in do a good job." . . .·. . An~ela ~oung~ on f'eb~ 7: ~t}p~Amy Hartzell Sports CommiS· and th~ start of.intramutal basket;. sioner, asked for the Board's ball are among the events. AJso reaction ro the formation Qf an dutin~ ~l1e month ofFebruar~ there 
athletic association at St; Mary's. willbe asynchronized swimming lt would consist of representatives (}linic ··OJ:! the 16th at7pm and a from each varsity sport, each hall, . c~rrecreatiomil v"lleybaU tpq~qa-' ·...·.. the intramurdl program chairman' inenton the 24th. . Finally; the and the sports commissioner.. studentracquetball tournament 
Hartzell said the purpose would WoiH start the week <>f Feb.. 27. be to provide "feedback and more Stgn-ups for the tournament are support for the athletic department te~tl:ltiyely scheduled for F~~· 9...·..·.··
1in both intramural and varsity Strident government will sell sports. I would also give support-whistles later this month. Thisis in ing service, such as time keepers, response to th~ rape ~ouble~Ja~t for the varsity sports!' . semester. The sale ofthewl)istles 
The Board of Governance felt the will be directed by ~ll,ty M~dlaney asociation was a very g()Od idea· and will ~e p~ac(: l.. tlle.Jqp~y 9~ i 
H'artzell was encouraged to pur~ue_ Le Mans< · · · · · · ·. · 
by Mike Ridenour and DavldBeno 
Some 6,000 students and digni­taries, with nationwide coverage by ABC-TV's Wide World of Sports, honored the Notre Dame football team Sunday afternoon with a National Championship Rally at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The two-hour rally came one month after Notre Dame was named National Champions follow­ing their 38-10 victory over Texas in the Cotton Bowl Jan. 2. The win catapulted the Irish from fifth to first place in the four major polls. 
At the rally, Indiana Governor Otis Bowen officially proclaimed February 5, 1978 as "Notre Dame Day". Bowen also stated that "one of the fringe benefits of my job is being able to participate in an event such as this." 
Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice president, jokingly cited 
Bowen as Notre Dame's "hidden 
weapon" against Texas. Joyce 
wrote a strong letter urging the 
governor to attend the Cotton Bowl 
game after hearing that Bowen had 
never seen Notre Dame lose. "I 
was more confident for that game 
because of his presence," Joyce 
stated. 
Joyce thanked the sponsors of 
the ceremony: South Bend-Misha­
waka Area Chamber of Commerce, 
St. Joe Valley Notre Dame Club, 
Quarterback Club, and the Notre 
Dame St1,1dent Government. Joyce 
added that he was ''prouder of this 
particular National Championship 
team than any of the others 
because of the way they didn't let 
~.: 
[
. . ' . . 
"~ 
i 
L 
adversity affect them. I was impressed with the character of this team after they lost to Missis­sippi because they didn't make any excuses." . 
Peter Nemeth, Mayor of South Bend, presented a plaque to Head Coach Dan Devine on behalf of the South Bend community. Devine, in his speech, expressed appreciation for everyone's support and added that "Notre Dame is the most beautiful place in the world." 
Devine praised the National Championship team, say~ng, "I've never seen a team improve so much each week. Give me six days with this team, and we'll play anyone in the United States and beat them; this means Tom Landry also. The 1977 Notre Dame football team is by far the best football team I've ever been associated with and could be one of the greatest teams ever to play football." 
Devine, saying he was a senti­
[Continued on page 3] 
For a report on the Black Cultural Arts Festival, see page 7. 
Former student dies of illness 
Mary Craig, a former Notre Dame student and Farley Hall resident, died early Saturday morning in South Bend's Mem­orial Hospital after an extended illness. Craig, 21, was from South Bend and was a student in the College of SCience. Craig's father is a biology professor at Notre Dame and a sister, Patty, also attends the University. The funeral Mass was said today at 10 a.m. by Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of St. Ed's, in Sacred Heart Church. Donations may be sent to Notre Dame Mem­orial Library. 
j 
As this photo shows, Notre Dame fans come in all sizes and ages. [photo by leo Hansen] 


---------------~ 
the observer Mondav. February 6, 1978 

Anyone;interested in; any,aspect of the, Observer is invited to drop by the office for Open House, Tuesday night from 9-midnight 
,....News Briefs________,_, 
r-::::==========================World 
Costa Rican polls popular 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica -Large numbers of Costa Ricans .voted yesterday in a carnival-like atmosphere for a full slate of candtdates in local and national elections, including a neck-and-neck presidential race. This Central American government-one of the few controlled by civilians in Latin America-has hailed its elections as the most democratic and honest in a region dominated by military regimes. A heavy turnout was reported among the nation's 840,000 registered voters. Analysts said the presidential race was too close to call with the tow top contenders-Luis Alberto Monge of the ruli~g National Liberation Party and Rodrigo Carazo of the Umty Coalition-in a dead heat. 
Poet's letters may travel 
LONDON -British collectors are making an eleventh hour appeal for c.tsh to keep a bundle of passionate love letters and other writings by the English poet William Wordsworth from being sent to America. The deadline was yesterday. Jonathan Wordsworth, the poet's great-great-great-nephew, said his group was close to agreement with Cornell University but the deal is "not all signed, sealed and delivered. We're extremely close to having raised the money," Wordsworth said in a telephone interview. "We h ave in fact made an offer to Cornell of 42,000 pounds, about$81,900 We have reason to believe they are going to accept that figure." 

Labor,business leaders clash 
W ASIDNGTON -Labor and business leaders clashed anew 
yesterday over the impact of proposed labor-law reform legislation aimed at making it easier for unions to organize and recruit members. AFL-CIO President George Meany criticized as misleading a U.S. Chamber of Commerce study which said t_he legislation would increase inflation and unemployment. T~e. btll, sought by organized labor and endorsed by the Carter admtmstra­tion, is expected to reach the Senate floor by mid-March. It would allow the federal government to bar companies from federal contracts if they willfully violate labor laws. It also would authorize the government to order businesses to give back pay at one and one-half times the regular rate to workers fired illegally during union organizing campaigns. 

WEATHER 
A heavy snow warning was issued for this morning with additional snow accumulations of four to eight inches expected by noon. Occasional periods of snow expected this afternoon. Highs in the low teens. Clearing tonight with lows around five below zero. Increasing cloudiness tomorrow with highs near 20. 

,..On Campus Today_------.~ 
12:15-1pm teaching/learning lecture series "to be a 'born again' lecturer," by dr. don kline, 242 o'shag, spon. 

6pm­ by educational media office.  
12midnight  mardi gras today through february 11.  
7,9,11pm  film"  silver streak" engr. aud.  spon.  by student  

union, $1. 7pm meeting nd rugby club organizational meeting, Ia fortune ballroom. 7:20pm duplicate bridge ladies of nd, faculty and staff dup. 
bridge, univ. club. 7:30pm women's basketball nd vs st. mary's college, ace. , 8pm lecture ray inncs, director of the congress of cacial 
equality will speak on the organization, lib. aud. 
.''" 


Coal shortage becomes critical 
[AP] • Unessential lights are being turned off at Purdue Univer­sity and elevators and escalators are idle at Indiana University as officials try to conserve electricity and dwindling coal supplies. 
Purdue President Arthur G. Hansen told a capacity crowd during halftime of Saturday's Michigan-Purdue basketball game that the United Miners Workers strike that began D~c. 6 might force the university to close in March. 
"This may not come to pass, but we must plan immediately and conserve electricity. in case it does," he said. "Progress in the coal strike will determine whether or not we close." 
So lights in unused rooms at the West Lafayette campus were shut off, lighting in some offices reduced, water fountains discon­nected, the university ice rink 
*The Observer 
Tonight's Theme: Baseball Starting Righty: Joe "Tom Seaver'' Bauer Starting Southpaw: Tracy "Rube Waddell" Herman 1st base: Steve "Boog Powell" Mayer 2nd base: Tom "Dave Cash" Behney Shortstop: Anne "Alan Ban­nister" Lorenz 3rd base: Sue "Brooks Robin­son" Wuetcher Designated flitter: Rosemary II Jim Rice" Mills Catcher: Frank "Carlton Fisk" Laurino Sports Commentator: ''Bob Euchre" Brink Bullpen: Mark "Bill Camp­bell" Rust, Carol II AI Hrabos­ki " Eckmann, Steve "Sparky Lyle" Odland, Anne "Bruce Sutter" Giere Manager: Mardi "Tom Lasor­da" Nevin Right Field: Bob "Reggie Jackson" Bernoskie Center Field: Debbie "Fred Lynn" Dahrling Left Field: Rob "Greg Lusin­ski" Civitello Umpire: Leo "how can you see from that angle?" Hansen 

Color Commentator: Barb ~"Curt Gowdy" Langhenry 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vac.tlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor UO per year (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is • member of the AIIOCiated ........ All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
closed and hot water circulators 
unplugged, which means dormitory 
residents will have to wait longer 
for hot showers. 
Hansen warned that further elec­
tric cutbacks might force research 
work to end, the bowling alley and 
art gallery to close and all activities 
non-essential to teaching to stop. 
Bill Ahlers, Purdue director of 
engineering and utilities, said the 
university has enough coal on hand 
to meet neattng needs tnis wmter. 
Unfortunately, he said, Purdue 
purchases electric power from Pub­
lic Service Indiana (PSI), which 
ordered major customers to reduce 
a 25 percent cutback recently. 
But Fred Ford, Purdue executive 
vice president and treasurer, said 
he believes President Jimmy Car­
ter will intervene to help end the 
strike before the university is 
forced to close. 
So far, Indiana University offi­cials haven't talked about anything as drastic as closing school. But Robert Brunnemer, associate direc­tor of teh physical plant, said conservation measures to cut cam­pus electric use 15 to 20 percent daily took effect last week. 
Elevators and escalators throughout campus were shut down, water coolers unplugged, outside lighting reduced, all elec­trically powered hand dryers in restrooms were replaced with paper towels, vventilating fans will be used less frequently and hot water in 39 campus buildings cut off. 
"We are not getting to the point of panic or hysteria, but to a point of where everyone is going to have to conserve in every way they can,'' he said. 
The conservation efforts were designed to save IU's dwindling coal reserves and comply with a PSI, IU's electric suppliier, request to reduce consumption, Brunnemer said. 
"Our primary concern right now is to conserve so that we will be 

Tutors neected for elementary, junior high or high school students on a one-to one basis. 
teacher assistants and activity leaders needed for normal children and children with learning disabilities. 
workers nee9ed in nursing homes. 


~EXPO N.D. 
m 

A  
R  
D  
I  
G  
R  AN  
6:(XJJM ­A  NllNIGHT  
s  ~~  
78  DON801lED aY NOTU DANK CBA&ITIU  

afforded enough electricity for the 
essential needs of the university," 
he said. 
Brunnemer said the Bloomington 
campus has 14,300 tons of coal on 
hand, or a 33 day supply. And IU 
placed an order for up to 10,000 
tons of non-union coal mined by 
members of the Progressive 
Miners Union at an eastern Ken­
tucky mine. 
The decision to begin searching for non-UMW coal was reached by IU physical plant officials in early December, when the coal strike began, he said. About 1,400 tons of that coal has arrived since Jan. 17 

Students named Indiana pages 
Six area high school students participating in the Upward Bound Program of Notre Dame has been selected to serve as pages in the current meeting of the Indiana General Assembly. Another stu­dent, Kenneth Donaldson, a junior at Washington High School, South Bend, has been selected to attend the Presidentail Classroom for Young Americans beginning Feb­ruary 11 in Washington, D.C. 
The students serving this week in Indianapolis are Jeannette Oliver, St. Joseph High School; Paul Belmarez, Washington; Ann Donohue and Rochelle Reid, Riley, and Joann Mosley and Marvin Wigfall, LaSalle. 
Originated 12 years ago as part of the War on Poverty program, Upward Bound is designed to stimulate intellectually a selected group of high school students who might not enter college through normal channels. In addition to an extensive orientation program con­ducted during their senior year, directed by Roland B. Smith, Jr., the students spend part of their summer vacation on the ND cam­pus attending classes and partici­pating in a university settinsz. 



Carter, Sadat 
discuss peace 

WASHINGTON (AP) -President' 
Jimmy Carter wound up a week­
end of talks with Anwar Sadat's 
concerns, but reaffirming the U.S. 
role as that of "a friend of both 
sides" in the stalled Egyptian­
Israeli peace talks. 
Carter and Sadat returned to the 
White House from Camp David, 
Md., at 4:38p.m., as dusk settled 
on Washington. Initially, the two 
were scheduled to return at 3:30 
p.m. But Rex Granum, White House deputy press secretary, said they decided to delay thdr depart­ure "because of a desire to have additional time to talk." 
After escorting the Egyptian leader onto the South Lawn, Carter announced that there was complete agreement between himself and Sadat about a mutual determina­tion to work toward a peace settlement in the Middle East. 
He placed a friendly hand on 
Sadat's shoulders, then guided his 
guest into the White House. 
Sadat, wearing a dark overcoat, 
stood silently at Carter's side and 
offered no remarks, wither on the 
South Lawn or later at Blair .:HMI.se 
the official residence for vjsiting 
,government'· leaders. 
At the White House, a statement 
distributed to reporters said that 
Carter and Sadat, over two days of 
extensive talks at the presidential 
retreat in the snow -bound Catoctin 
Mountains, had carefully consider­
ed the further steps necessary to 
achieve a settlement. 
No details were given. however, 
as the administration maintained a 
virtual news blackout on the sum­
mit that had been surrou.nded by an 
aura of mystery and tight security. 
The statement, issued in the 
U.S. name alone, reaffirmed the impression given by American officials that there is no basic change in U.S. policy nor any inclination by this country to force peace terms on Israel. 
The talks produced at least one concrete result. It was announced that Assistant Secretary of State Alfred L. Atherton Jr., will return to the Middle East in the near future to continue working on a ·1edaration of principles between Egypt and Israel. The peace talks broke down Jan. 18, in a dispute over the Palestinian issue. 
The U.S. statement spoke of the 
"slow pace" of the Egyptian-Israeli 
peace talks and said Carter and 
Sadat ''will further refine their 
views" before the Egyptian leader 
departs Wednesday night. 
As a result of theiir weekend 
talks some of which were held 
with~ut the presence of advisers, 
"President Carter feels that he has 
a better understanding of President 
Sadat's concerns about the need for 
the peace process, to move forw~rd 
without delay," the statement satd. 
At the same time, it said, Carter gave Sadat a detailed explanation of "how the U.S. envisages its role and responsibilities in the peac;~ process as a friend of both sides ... 

Howard re!ports on Mardi ·Gras raffle sales 

Farley, Lewis and Keenan Halls are currently leading in the sale of Mardi Gras Raffle tickets, accor­ding to Ted Howard, Publicity · 1Director of Mardi Gras and Presi­
of Holy Cross Hall. 
Howard stated that $17,000 has 

been collected from the · 
of the raffle tickets, and that ' 
average dorm sales are over 
. Although no definite goal 
been set, Howard commented 
the sales were going along at a 
normal pace and "just 
last year's sales." 
co.nfident, however, and 
, "we hope to sell more 
the week," 
sale of the Mardi Gras 
tickets contribute the largest· 
of money from Mardi Gras. 
of the proceeds go to Notre 
charities. 
Mardi Gras came to life this weekend. Here a blackjack dealer plies her tr:_ad~: _[ph~~~ Leo Hansen] 
Rally honors team 
[Continued from page 1] 
mentalist, requested the band to play "Notre Dame, Our Mother." In closing, he said, "The student body stood up there and gave us inspiration all year, and I know that the 1977 team will live in your 
hearts forever.'' 
Margaret Prickett, Mayor of Mishawaka, introduced Edward "Moose" Krause, Athletic Direc­tor, as "a man who will always have more friends than tickets." She presented a plaque to Krause on behalf of the community. 
After thanking Prickett, Krause, in an attempt to coordinate the ceremony and the telecast, asked the band to play several renditions of "The Victory March" to honor the players and coaches. 
Krause introduced football cap­tains, Terry Eurick and Steve Orsini and mentioned that captains Ross Browner and Willy Fry were unable to attend because of the flu. 
Orsini, speaking for the team, was grateful for the "No. 1" brass momentos given to the players by the South Bend community. Orsini said ''There is a special thing here at Notre Dame called mystique and tradition. It's truly a real thing for that's what holds our young people today to reach th«rir goals they have to attain for life." 
Orsini continued, ''To be a member of this Notre Dame family 




NOTRE DAME 
is the best thing/of all ... we are a College, Dublin, will speak, is part very close-knit, loving family." 
of a weeklong symposium onA film of the season's highlights "Canada and the Celtic Conscious­made its first public showing at the ness."
rally. The film lasted 35 minutes and included interviews with Joe Monday, February 6, 1978 


Blizzard causes slowdown; laundry asks for patience 
by John Mahon 
According to the Director of Laundry Services, J. Keglovitz, the Notre Dame laundry service is running well behind schedule due to the road closings during the recent blizzard. 
The blizzard which struck on Wednesday, Jan. 25, prevented the laundry service from operating for the rest of that week and up until) the following Wednesday. The resultant four day delay has al­ready been narrowed to three, but a complete return to the normal schedule is not expected for at least another two weeks. 
Beginning this Monday, all stu­dents may expect their laundry to be picked up from their halls according to the posted schedules. Many halls underwent long delays in pick-up among these being Zahm, Flanner, Cavanaugh, and Grace. Under normal circumstan­ces these halls have their laundry picked up on Thursday. However, due to the snow drifts, the halls were inaccessible to the depart· ment trucks until the Friday of the following week. All halls are now 

Gabriel to chair Toronto meeting on Celtic Peoples 
Dr. Astrik L. Gabriel, director of the Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilm and Photographic Collection at the University of Notre Dame, will chair a session on "The Art of the Celtic Peoples" tomorrow at the University of Toronto. The session, at which Liam de Paor of University clear, however, and there will be no problems in at least getting the clothes to the laundry facility, according to Keglovitz. 

The situation is not so hopeful concerning student's pickup of cleaned clothes. Keglovitz stated that students should expect to get their laundry returned to them at least lliree days late, and this delay .should be in effect for at least two more weeks. For instance, stu­dents who normally pick up their laundry on Friday should not expect their clean clothes· until the following Wednesday. 
Keglovitz said the laundry ser­vice is working hard to restore normal service. Although a full crew has not shown up for work as of yet, those who do come have been working overtime. In addition to the normal working hours, the plant was open for seven hours overtime on Saturday to get back on schedule. U absenteeism does not impair their efficiency, the normal schedule will be operative in two weeks. 
Students appear sympathetic to the problems the laundry service. is dealing with, as one student satd, "The snow is not their fault. I suppose they are doing their best, although I do wish they would do a more efficient job the whole year round.'' 
mE OBSERVER would. like to thank. three stu-· dents who aided in the distribution of the paper during the weekend after the "Blizzard of '78": 
Bob Griffin Mark Laemmle Mike O'Donnell. 
Come on along and gef that 


A.C. C. 
HAPPY FEELIN'WED. FEB. 15 8 PERFORMANCES 
thru WED.-THURS.-FRI. 8P.M. SAl-NOON; 4P.M.; 8 P 
SUN. FEB. 19 
SUN.-2 P.M. alii 6P.M. 
PRICES: Tickets now on aale: _s5QQ _s& 00 NOTRE DAME A. C. C.
s350

· · · BOX OFFICEHalf price MON.-SAT._ 9 to s for ND/SMC students for Wed., Thurs. 8:00pmSat. 12:00noon Sun. 6:00pm shows 
' 

.-one night's lodging at a Holiday 
lnn 

-a party with the Junior Class of Dayton -Sunday morning breakfast -shuttle service around Dayton 





ONLY$36.00 
Tickets on Sale in the dining halls 
$10 deposit required 
ticket sales extended through Feb. 8th­
____ .. 

Montana, Ken MacAfee, and Ross Browner. 
There were four trophies on display representing the Associ­ated Press, United Press Interna­tional, Grantland Rice, and the Cotton Bowl. The McArthur Bowl trophy was not available for dis­play. 
Roland Kelly, representative of St. Joseph Bank and Trust Com­pany was the emcee at the rally and among those in attendance were some 20 football recruits. 
ROCCO'S 
BARBERS 
hairstylists 
531 N. I!Aichigan 233-4957 
'Return to the Lord with your whole heart' 
. /~ 
-~Y 
I 
Sacred Heart Church 
5:00PM 

celebrant: John Gallen, SJ. 
JUNIOR CLASS TRIP 
to the 
Dayton Basketball Game 
'March 4th and 5th · 



TRIP INCLUDES 
-one ticket to the game 

~ the Observer Monday, February 6, 1978 

Federal judges inhibited; outdated system inefficient 
WASHINGTON (AP]-The typical 
federal judge has poorer research 
facilities available to him than a 
beginning law student-a predica­
ment that can cause delays, errors , 
retrials and additional expense, an 
unrealeased government study 
shows. 
The study, conducted for the 
Federal Judicial Center, concludes 
that if the information deficiency 
C'1.1Uld be cleared up there probably 
would be no need for many of the 
1110 or more new federal judgeships 
about to be created by Congress to 
relieve overworked courts. The 
center is an administrative arm of 
th.~ federal court system. 
'If they were operating effeci­cnt:y, there might be no necessity for any new judges, and certainly not on the appellate level," Raymond Taylor, authot· of the report. said in an interview. 
Taylor's study, a copy of which ''as obtained by The Associated Press, was submitted to the center last September but was not con­sidered by the center's board until Friday. There was no indication whether the center would forward the report to its parent Judicial Conference of the United States or whether its recommendations would be sent to Congress. 
Taylor, a Raleigh,N.C. lawyer and former librarian at the 'North CarolinaSupreme Court, said that because of the research problem, many judges are '' ... like the doctor doing everything from tempera­tures to insurance forms with no time for llreating the patient." 
Without speedy access to the 
information they need, he said, 
judges are forced to delay trials 
until the data is found, or to "shoot 
from the hip," which can cause 
errors, reversals, .time-consuming 
retrials and added costs.$ 
"It's going to take $75,000 to $85,000 to set up the simplest library for each one of those new judges,"she said. "Add to that a secretary, a couple of law clerks, and if he's a trial judge, he'll require an assignment clerk, a probation officer. 
"You don't just create 125 new judgeships. You're creating 500 or 700 or perhaps more new jobs to help a person to continue to operate in an archaic, inefficient, wasteful manner." 
The essential problem, Taylor's study suggests. is that law research 

NO students run tax program 
More than SO advanced students in accounting at the University of Notre Dame will begin their annual assistance program to low income wage earners during a series of counseling sessions beginning today. The service is supervised by faculty members and area certified public accountants and is available to all family heads with.incomes of less than $12,000 per year. 
Students will be on duty at the following locations during the tax filing period: LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, Monday­Wednesday, 2 to 4 pm; Northeast Neighborhood Center, Mondays, 5 to 8 pm; Clay Neighborhood Center 
;Tuesdays, 5 to 8 pm; Hansel Center, Tuesday-Thursday, 5 to 8 pm;Meadowbrook Center, Wednesdays, 11 am to 2 pm; LaSalle Center, Thursdays, 5 to 8 pm; Southeast Center, Mondays, 5 to 8 pm; Senior Citizens Center, Fridays, 10 am to noon; LaRaza Center, Saturdays, 10 am to 1 pm; Justice and Peace Office, Satur­days, 10 am to 1 pm. 
The student services, an annual community program of the College of Business Administration, are free and confidential. Interested parties rnJlY call 283-7324 for additional information. 


is still done today essentially the way it was in Abraham Lincoln's time-by the judge or his clerk looking up cases and statutes in 
bound volumes, which very likely won't be readily available. 
For a law school to be accredited 
by the American Association of Law Schools, it is expected to have at least 60,000 volumes. Yet, the collectiqns of the U.S. appeals courts ~ange from 20,803 to 40,549, the report says. 
Below the Supreme Court, which has its own library, the federal courts have 2.8 million Iawbooks in their collection, which~ the largest inventory in a single system any­where. However, the study shows, there is wholesale duplication and uneven distribution. 
At the heart of Taylor's recom­mendations is a call for a central law facility which any federal judge could contact by a toll-free long 
..~~4' ~,·r'··!.·~·,
distance telephone line or through a small, even portable . computer If this is Monday, can the weekend be far away? [photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
terminari.--~~~;;~~~E;~;;~~~~~~~~~~ii~~iiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::ll----~ 




~Y, February 6, 1978 the observer 




Ratification for Canal treaty still in question 
WASHINGTON [AP)·· A new sur­vey shows that 31 U.S. senators are either opposed to the Panama Canal treaty or are leaning against it, only three votes s.hy of the 34 · needed to block ratification. 
A questionnaire sent to all senators by The Associated Press 
. also shows that 41 favor t~ pact and eight are leaning 1toward ratification. Twenty-four Senators indicated they are opposed jjo the treaty, while seven others said they 

Greek feministS petition to se,"ve on church councils 
ATHENS* Greece (AP)-Feminist leaders will go befo1re parliament this week to fight a Greek Orthodox Church order that continues a 150-year-old tradition forbidding women from serving on local church councils. 
fheCenter Party Women's Group has denounced the ruling as an example of "the worst and most outdated male chauvanist mental­ity " since women are tapped only for menial jobs and not administra­tive posts. 
The issue arose last week when Bishop Eleftherios ruled that in his 
Saucers strafe Illinois town? 
CHESTER, m. [AP] • Nobody could remember just when the alien creatures in te:n to 20 flying saucers strafed Chester and left it in a pile of rubble,. but just the same townsfolk accepted an award from Official UFO, the magazne that swears it really happened. 
About 75 of Chester's 5,300 citizens turned out Saturday at City Hall to receive the magazine's "Letter of Appreciation" for their cooperation in the investigation of the village's "destruction" last year. 
The crowd was somewhat below Official UFO's projt~ction. It h ad promised "an immense crowd, numbering 20,000 to 30,000 people" to greet "famed war hero Ed Ferrar and his team of UFO investigators." 
Ferrar said he wa.s a World War II flying ace in Europe and now is a tennis professional in New York. After his speech, Ferrar collapsed, having succumbed, he said, to forces from outer space. 
"I have an idea they, the forces didn't want any more said," he explained. 
A helicopter also arrived for the festivities, much to the delight of the crowd that consisted mainly of children. "I came to see the helicopter," said Thomas Welge, 7. 
[Continliled on page 10] 

~~ 

after 5:00pm 

Pi~Pher of Beer 1f2p1ricew/purchaseof large pizza 
CWifOIJrAD


a•am aaw
..... 

were leaning against it. 
That means the fate of the pact-a major Carter administration for­eign policy objective-may rest with 20 senators who are not ready to take a public position. 
Among them are some of the Senate's most influential and se­nior members. Most of them are Democrats, some of whom chair key committees and key subcom­mittees and often decide the fate of legislation. 
They include Henry Jackson and Warren Magnuson, both Washing­ton Democrats; Howard Cannon, D-Nev.; William Proxmire, D-Wis.; Thomas Eagleton, D-Mo.; Thomas Mcintyre, D-N.H.; Jennings Ran­
-dolph,D-W. Va., and Herman Tal­madge, D-Ga. A two-thirds majority of the Senate-67 members, if all are present-is needed for ratification. Most treaty foes are believed to have declared themselves already, 
diocese there would be one woman on the five-member council of each church. He said this was logical since 75 percent of thuse who attend ·worship services in Greece are women. He added that women's opinions would generally improve the handling of church affairs. 
The bishop's colleagues reacted by pressuring Archbishop Serapheim to convene a meeting of the Holy Synod, the church's supreme ruling body. The arch­bishop, appointed in 1973 by the military government then in power, issued a circular after the meeting forbidding the appointment of 
"Today the Greek woman is just as capable," she said. "The Synod's decision has no logic, but simply expresses a view of female inferi6rity. We cannot remain with 150-year-old conceptions." 
Koumanakou said the motion to reverse the church ruling will be submitted in parliament this week by Virginia Tsouderos, a Center Party deputy and women's rights trouble-shooter. 
The church councils are re­sponsible for admimistration, church service regulations, fund­raising, social activities. They also take care of routine paperwork like birth certificates and marriage 
women to church councils through--permits. 
out Greece. He said otherwise, ''holy tradi­tion would be seriously disrupted." 
Katerina Koumanakou a Su­preme Court lawyer ~ho speaks for the • Women's Group, said women are asked to perform church chores such as cleaning and money collections. She claimed the policy of all-male councils is a hold-over from the last century when only men were educated. 

&~. 
~~ Q;.~ 
Through the recommendation of the Ministry of Education and Rel~gion, the. governme~t co~ld dectde the dtspute by 1mposmg equal council repre~entation for t~e sexes through parhamentary legis­lation. But lately the gove~mnet has chosen not to tangle wtth the Holy Synod and officials recently abandoned a social reform package when it met with stiff opposition from the church. 
?/"~ 
~ 


a $6.98 list LP's. ONLY $4.49 
all $7.98 list LP's ONLY $4.99 ( plus sales tax) 


R.N+iR
ENDS SUNDAY, 
322 Flanner
19 FEB. 
• 2741 
The Air Force ROTC TWo Year Program 
Are you really as good as you Training to took us over (whilethink you are? we're looking you over) so youWant an opportunity to test your can decide If Air Force ROTC and capabilities'# a commission as an Air Force If you lll"e a college student with officer Is for you. No obligation if two academic years remaining, you decide not to enroll in Air Force ROTC has an opportu. AFROTC. Summer field trainingnityfor yew! We'll pay your way positions lll"e being filled right 
to and from a field training· now!! encampment !Somewhere in A­Contact Capt. Davis, Tel: 283· merica), pay \'OUr salary and 663~ or visit him on campus at 
expenses while you •• there, the Air Force iROTC offices. and giw you six weeks at Fleht 

.··_, '­
and Senate observers suggest that 
most uncommitted members are 
potential backers of the treaty who 
are not willing to promise Carter 
their votes without getting some­
thing in return. 
Sen. Russell Long, D-La., the 
Senate Finance Committee chair­. man who has fought the admini­
stration on energy t.ax legislation, 
told the AP he was ''leaning 
against'' the treaty. 
The pact would gradually turn 
the international waterway over to 
Panama until that country is given 
full control in the year 2000. 
The treaty debate is expected to 
begin after the Lincoln Day recess, 
Feb. 13-20, and last from two to 
five weeks. Senate Majority Lea­
der Robert C. Byrd, D-W. Va., said 
Saturday the pact faces an uphill 
fight but, "I believe it's win­
nable." 
Byrd and Senate Minority Leader 
Howard Baker are asking senators 
to support two "essential and 
fundamental" amendments to en­
hance passage of the treaty. 
The ·changes would guarantee a 
U.S. right of priority access to the canal and the right to defend the waterway militarily after the tum of the century. 
The AP questionnaire asked senators to say whether they would support the treaty with or without the amendments, whether they opposed any treaty or particularly the one before the Senate, and whether they were undecided or simply not ready to declare them­selves. 

Only 14 senators said they could support the pact without the guarantees of priority passage and defense rights. Seven said they saw no need for any new treaty with Panama, and 15 said they thought there should be a treaty but not the one at issue. Most objections to the pact appeared based on fear that even with the amendments, security guarantees are inadequate. 
The only senator who did not respond to the questionnaire was Sen. Charles Mathias, R,Md.He is regarded as pro-treaty, but was listed by the AP as undeclared. 
Financial issues are generating new problems for ratification. 
At least three senators and 
perhaps more, according to Senate 
sources asking not to be identified, 
are expressing misgivings after · 
hearings by the Senate Armed 
Services Committee. In those 
hearings Canal Zone Gov. Harold 
Parfitt and U.S. Comptroller Gen. 
Elmer B. Staats declared that the 
treaty, despite administration 
claims to the contrary, would cost 
U.S. taxpayers millions of dollars. 
SHAKEY'S 
SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS 5 -7:30 MON ~ TU-ES -WED 
Pizza-Chicken· ·Spaghetti-Salad 
$21r.:6~.11
All You Can Eat 
FINANCIAL AID FORM 
(Formerly Parents Confidential Statement 
\ 
TOBEFR,ED B 
APRIL 15 \.,/' 
CONTACT: 
University of Notre Dame Financial Aid/Seholanhip8 Room Ill 
Adm.Buildina
1 . ­
I. 
q 


"'*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opm10ns on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Notre Dame Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
Monday, February 6, 1978 
Protect Your Interest 
You own us. 

Eleven years ago a group of students got together some old typewriters, bought some second-hand machinery and started a newspaper. Today that newspaper is known as The Observer and i~ legally owned by "The Students of the Q$iversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College.'' The Observer editors and staff are your employees. You share the responsibility for the product we produce. Isn't it about time you checked us out? 
Tomorrow night (Tues., Feb. 7) The Observer will hold Open House for all members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. From 9 p.m. to midnight, our staff will be ~n hand to conduct tours, answer questions and show you the newspaper in action. Yf e hope you will come away with a better understanding of how your newspaper works and leave behind you some ideas on how to make it work better. 
More than that, we hope that many of you will want to take a personal hand in making your newspaper the best it can possibly be. The Observer needs writers, artists, salespeople, production workers, office staff--people with all different backgrounds and interests. H you have experience, great; if not, we'll train you. Many of our best people had never written a story or designed a page before. 
In less than two months, the current 
Observer management will hand over the 
paper to next year's editor and staff. 
Freshmen, sophomores and juniors are 
needed now to begin training for staff 
positions in all departments next year. 
In return for your time and talents, we 
can offer: 
-An inside look at ND-SMC: its 
organization, its policies and the people 
who run it. 
-Training in skills that are useful in many areas of life. Almost every group, company and organization in the country gets involved in promotions, advertising and publications (Somebody designs and writes all those trade magazines, public relations brochures and catalogues). 
-A large enough salary in most areas to keep you in Coke and popcorn from the Huddle or coffee and donuts from Darby's. 
-An opportunity to meet new and interesting people--staff, administrators, other students, visiting lecturers, faculty, etc. 
-In spite of all our hard work and occasional sleepless nights, we do have fun. Yf e enjoy working with each other and we take pride in covering campus news as best we can. 
.JQ.io us tomorrow night on the top floor of LaFortune for refreshments and a closer look at your newspaper; 
P. 
0. 
B 
0 
X 
Q 

Was It You?l 
The Observer regrets that It cannot print unsigned letters or letters signed only with Initials or whimsical psuedonyms. We must know the names of the authors of all letters to protect ourselves against libel. We will, however, withhold names if requested to do so. H "LAO", "Fido, the Barking Spider", and "Weary North Quad Washers" will call The Observer· and identify their letters, we will be happy to print them, with or without signatures. 
NLRB 
charge iustified 
Dear Editor: Regarding the l\':tter by Thomas 
J. Mason, vice president for busi­ness affairs, printed in the Jan. 31 issue of The Observer, Mason refutes the charges issued by the National Labor Relations Board 
.(NLRB) and says that the Team­sters Union is dragging its feet. 
In regards to the Unfair Labor Practices charges, it should be mentioned that the NLRB, having investigated the situation, has found sufficient reason and evi­dence to issue such charges against Notre Dame. 
Regarding Mason's claim that the Teamsters are dragging their feet, it should be brought out that it is Notre Dame which has hired a firm with a reputation for union­busting, a firm that has and currently is representing growers in their battle against the United Farm Workers. The firm is Seyforth, Shaw, Fairweather and Geraldson. 
According to Alan Kistler, direc­tor of the Department of Organiza­tion and Field Services of the AFL-CIO, "when a company hires this firm, that means they're going to fight the union tooth · and naii....It's not a firm that would ordinarily be retained to seek an honorable solution; it's a firm companies hire to do battle." 
It also should be mentioned that instead of permitting an election for the 21 Goundskeepers, "with­out undue delay'' as was suggested by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, the Administration has opted for a strategy of trying to dilute the bargaining unit of 21 grounds­keepers by urging that they be swallowed up in a unit of 413 in the hopes of dismanteling their unioni­zation efforts. It is interesting how the Administration is trying to change the ur~}!. ~f the Grounds-

JUSTICE NOTES: 
robert rodes 
Teach-in for Justice 
The University Committee on Education for Justice is sponsoring a campus-wide "teach-in" on Wednesday, Feb. 8 (Ash Wednes­day) and Thursday, Feb. 9. It is asking faculty and students to participate by spending all or part of their regular class periods on those days dealing with issues of justice raised by the subject-matter of their regular courses. 
' Of course, this is easier to do in some courses than in others. Some philosophy courses, for instance, are explicitly devoted to justice and cna observe these days merely by ~ollowing their regular syllabi. 
Other courses, some law or government courses for instance, raise issues of justice from time to time and habitually deal with them in their proper place. In courses of this kind, perhaps it would be sufficient (certainly it would be appropriate) for faculty and stu­dents to look briefly at the semes­ter's work, past and projected, and ask themselves and each other whether they are as open to questions of justice as they think they are, or as they would like to be. 
There are less than fifteen weeks of class in a semester, and people with an important body of technical information to impart or to absorb tend to become impatient with time spent doing other things. It is easy to let questions of justice slide, even though in theory we would like to deal with them. The Sermon on the Mount is easier to under­stand than the appellate jurisdic­tion of the Supreme Court, and for that reason easier to forget once we have understood it. 
Besides the courses that raise issues of justice, there are courses that can raise them or not, depend­ing on how they are approached. There are, for instance, a whole range of what might be called "how-to-do-it" courses. Many business and engineering courses, and some arts and science courses are of this kind. It seems highly desirable to pause once in a while in a how-to-do-it course and ask whether it ought to be done at all. Many such questions could be profitably addressed on these jus­
tice days. A marketing class could consider whether people are really made better or happier by the 

goods that are being marketed. An 
electrical engineering class could 
consider whether particular instal­
lations were desirable from such 
standpoints as full employment, 

environmental protection, or con­
servation of energy resources. 

Then there are courses which, by 
the prevailing understanding in 
their discipline, are "value-free." 

It seems particularly appropriate 
that the assumptions of these 
courses should be examined in the 
light of a committment to justice. Is 
this course or this discipline in fact 
as value-free as it claims to be? Can 
the body of knowledge it imparts be 
put to evil uses, and, if so, can 
those who discover the knowledge 

and make it public be free of 
responsibility for the harm it does? 
These are questions that have been 
asked with increasing urgency ever 
since the nuclear physicists made it 
possible to develop the atom bomb. 
Anyone who thinks he is teaching 
or learning value-free material 
would be well-advised to ask them 
one more time. 
Finally, there are courses such as literature and art or perhaps theo­logy that seem to deal with enduring realities of the human spirit that cannot be easily related to questions of justice, although they are equally important. Per­haps what is important in these courses is to see how poverty, oppression, and other forms of injustice impair the development of human potential along the lines dealt with in the course, and how that impairment can be overcome. Can the arts reinforce social jus­tice? Can social justice reinforce the arts? 
In short, the Committee would like to suggest to the campus community that there is room in all the courses weoffer for an examina­tion of conscience or an examina­tion of subject-matter or both with respect to the questions of justice we seek to raise in the teach-in. 
Further articles will deal with specific disciplines in detail. 
[Tomorrow's articles will address the question of justice as it pertains to the colleges of business adminis­tration and arts and letters and to the colleges of science and engineering.[ 
~------------------------­
I 
keepers by calling it something else. Those in position of power and authority have a bad habit of dictating and imposing identities. The question is will they get away with it in this instance. 
It also should be noted that the NLRB offered the University a settlement agreement, but the University refused and the Team­sters would have agreed with this 
settlement.  It  should  be further  
noted  that  NLRB  hearing  
scheduled  for  Feb.  15  will  be  

prosecuted by government attor­neys and not the Teamsters. Who is dragging their feet? 
With its fancy law firm the University could tie this up in the courts and thus deny a fair and just opportunity for the Grounds­keepers to have an election. 
Ricardo Parra, Chairperson Groundskeepers Rights Coalition 
Book exchange thank you's 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to publicly thank all those who helped out in the recent Student Union book exc"lange. Special recongition must go to Joe Kaczmarek and also to Kristin Quann, without whose help and devotion the book exchange would never have been. All help was truly appreciated. Tom Hamel, Director 
SU boo~ e~~hange 
South Bend citizens commended 
Dear Editor: 
I'm normally not the type of person who writes letters to the editor but I was so impressed by the behavior of this city's citizens during the recent snow emergency that I'd like to commend them. Everyone was more then willing to help someone who needed aid. People pushed strangers' cars out of snow dn"fts. helped neighbors dig themselves out, and when grocery shopping, were consider­ate enough to not try to hoard valuable products such as milk and eggs. I must admit that I was truly shocked! It seemed that the emer­gen.cy had changed the average citizen and made him much more aware of others' needs. 
Since I live off-campus I don't know how those students who lived on-campus fared. Maybe for them it was just a time of no classes and play in the snow. But for those of us who live in town, it was a chance to feel a part of South Bend. For me it was the first time that I had ever really considered myself much affected by the city of citizens. Maybe more ND sutdents need such an opportunity to help them realize that they are as responsible to the city of South Bend as they are to Notre Dame. 
Barbara Smith 



• 


''America is moving in a very peculiar 
way," according to Sonia Sanchez, the 
opening speaker of this year's Black 
Cultural Arts Festival. This peculiar way 
is, apparently, backwards. 
Sanchez maintains that the activism of 
the SO's and 60's did not eliminate the 
problems of racism, which are neglected in 
America's current reactionary period. She 
cited examples of our time from the media, 
specifically the absence of black characters 
in Star Wars, and Root's non-treatment of 
black's African heritage. Concerning 
Roots, Sanchez believed that the series 
should have cotlicentrated more specifically 
on the blacks i111 Africa and their heritage, 
as that subject is a definite prerequisite to 
discussing the mle of blacks in America. 
"Why is it that the only serious blacks 
seen on TV arf~ pimps?" Sanchez asked, 
continuing, "Why do children laugh the 
minute they see a black face on TV-. 
because they expect to see something 
funny?" With this statement, Sanchez was 
referring to her own sons. According to 
Sanchez, black actors are still primarily 
cast in the comic role and, in general, the 
media denies the seriousness of black men 
and women. 
...and the rest 

of thE~ program ••• 
Another weekend event was the Theatre 'N Action Players production of Cher Chez La Femme. At left are several characters from the series of comical and dramatic scenes. The production also iincluded dance presentations. 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival is scheduled to continue until Saturday Feb.ll. Other speakers slated to appear come from varied career fields. Roy Innes; director .of the Congresss of Racial Equality, is scheduled to speak tonight. John Sengstacke, owner and publisher of the Chicago Defender, will speak Wednesday evening. Noted theologians; Fr. Clarence Rivers, Fr. Edward Braxton, and Giles Conwill, will discuss black theology Thursday evening. Friday night, the vice-president of Mutual Black Radio Network, Tom Gatewood, will lecture on black people in sports. 
A Disco Fashion Show is planned for Saturday night in the ACC. 
[All photos by leo Hansen] 
. Monday, February 6, 1978 the observer 
7 

There is a Season 
A friend of mine was once giving a retreat to college students. He was ea~e~ to discuss what he thought were the cnttcal questions--the new liturgy, the struc~ures of authority, the role of personal consCience and the new moraJity. 
But, when he proceeded to give his carefully-prepared conferew::es, the re­sponse of the students was less than enthusiastic. They didn't all walk out; bvt the most he got from them was a distressing respectful silence. Toward the end of the second day, he was beginning to panic. Finally, that evening, after aski!lg again for questions or comments, a young woman looked at him thoughtfully and said, "Father, why don't you just tell us about God?" 
I am haunted by that remark. All those other topics my friend had planned to speak about are important; but they do not come to grips with the real question. "Why don't you tell us about God?" That is the critical issue. 
And that's the question many students are asking, as we approach the beginning of Lent, 1978. Many of us got swept up in the reform that arose out of Vatican II. We started to think of it in terms of updating the Church, as though it were an institution outside ourselves that needed renovation and face-lift. We considered renewal largely a question of reorganization and revision. We are just beginning to discover that it is a call to personal conversion. 
And that calls for something beyond "telling about God," as helpful as that might be. A student I know walked up to the celebrant after Mass one Sunday night and said: "I'm glad to listen to your comments, Father, but what does Jesus have to say to me tonight; what word would He want to speak to my . particular situation, if He had the chance?" 
It's an occurrence like that which prompts me to suggest that it's not simply a question of talking about God, but oJf allowing Him to do the communicating. For example, it's not just a matter of so'meone telling you that God loves you; God is quite capable of saying it Himself. 
I think that's what Lent is meant to be about ... our efforts to allow God Himself to reach us--to forgive us, heal us, touch us with His love, strengthen us, feed us, lead us with His Spirit. All of us (students, administrators, faculty, staff) would do well to remind ourselves of this fact. 
This is the most important season of the · year--a time to especially involve ourselves 
in our journey towara fuller life, a more 
complete transformation into the rich 
person each of us is destined to be. 
There will be many opportunities for all of us these next few weeks. Many will attemp1t more frequent participation in Eucharist. There will be daily morning prayer in Sacred Heart Church, and a special Lenten Prayer Service (with confes­sion available afterwards) in Sacred Heart on the 7th of March, at 10 p.m. And residence halls will have specially­announced activities, as well. 
I urge you to consider taking advantage of the new rite of penance this Lent. Fr. McNally;of Campus Ministry, who was a professional writer for United Press (sorry I blew your cover, Tom) before entering the seminary, has prepared a special short booklet just for Notre Dame students on the topic of confession at Notre Dame, 1978; a.nd it will be distributed to all students in a week or so. It is truly excellent! It will help you appreciate the sacrament like never before. Allow its words to lead you to plan to celebrate the new rite of penance some time this Lent. 
by fr. bill toohey 
Most importantly, Lent gives us a time to concentrate on our efforts in love for one another. A good time to become involved in Volunteer Services; an excellent occasion to practice charity to offset those "tiny murders" of the past (in residence halls and administrative halls). 
"Share your bread with the hungry, shelter the oppressed and the homeless. Clothe the naked when you see them, and do not turn your back on your own." These words from Isaiah should be our theme­song this Lent. How can we hear words like these and continue to speak about "saving souls" as the main concern of religi(:m. How dare we go through the motioll,&> of repenting our sins and ignore our social sins? If we make religion a matter of individual salvation, or prayers and piety only, we make of it a mockery. 
Lent is given to e&ch of us as God's special gift ... that we might learn more about Him, and, what is more significant, be actually encountered by Him in grace­filled. ways. He would enter our lives with His converting Spirit, that we might become a new person; and that, in turn, our "religion" (being bound to God in covenant) would lead us to "remove oppression from our midst.'' 

Black Cultural Arts Festival 
Sanchez: problems of racism neglected 



by mary palumbo 
But Sanchez does not see the black 
situation, and especially the situation of 
the black woman, as a joking matter. 
"Historically, the black woman has never 
known the anxiety of being harbored.'' 
However, the materialism of established 
American society has reduced women to 
being mere objects of sensuality, Sanch~z 
stated. Now, black women must gua.J 
against the role that white women are 
rebelling against--the stereotype of the 
middle class woman as a sex object and 
housewife. 
Sanchez spoke to approximately 130 
people in the library auditorium Friday 
evening. As the lecture continued, 
Sanchez's voice became quite strained, 
due to a cold. Her annoyance with her own 
voice seemed to emphasize her increased 
attitude of pessimism, which found expres­
sion in her fears of the apathy of black 
students toward the problems of other 
blacks, especially underpriviledged blacks. 
Sanchez, as a writer, also fears that 
scholarship and research have become 
meaningless in today's ambition-oriented 
society. Sanchez concluded her lecture 
with her statement, "I have come to the 
point of believing that America won't make jt." 


...,l 

Monday, February 6, 1978
IL 

Survey shows 
ugustana offer 

Americans down on business community 
ugustana College in Rock Island, 
llinois, will be sponsoring their 
14th Summer School Program in 
Spain this summer. The five week 
rogram is open to all students in 
he U.S. and Canada enabling them 
to study and travel in Spain. 
The students live and attend 
.:lasses on the campus of the 
Ciudad Universitaria of Madrid 
with classes being held five days a 
'' eek.Courses offered range from 
Elementary Spanish to Literature 
and Culture and students may earn 
9 quarter college credits. 
As part of the program, once or 
twice a week, groups of students 
vis·t such historical and famous 
places such as Segovia, Toledo, 
Palacio Real, Sevilla, Granada, and 
Torremolinos Beach. 
Plans for the 1978 session of thf: 
program are already in progress 
and due to limited enrollment, all 
i.nterested students should as soon 
as possible write Dr. Arjibay 
Dore-;te, Augustana College, Rock 
)<;land. Illinois 61201. 
'-------------" 

W ASBINGTON [AP] • Ameri­cans don't think very highly of the business community, the news media and the federal bureaucracy, but many feel the need for govern­ment protection, a survey spon­sored by U.S. News & World Report shows. 
All 25 areas of the public sector identified in the magazine poll, including professionals, labor and education, scored less than SO percent when respondents were asked about their ability and inte­grity. 
While most persons surveyed opposed excessive government regulation of business and tinker­ing with the profit motive, 68 percent said government regula­tion is needed to guarantee safe working conditions. 
The survey, released yesterday, also shows that 58 percent of the respondents believe government regulation is the best way to insure safe products. Fifty-four percent say the government should ban the sale of products causing cancer in animals, and 48 percent want a federal consumer protection agency. 
The study was conducted by Marketing Concepts Inc., a Wash­ington firm, which compiled 5,900 returns from a scientifically selec­ted sample drawn from a computer list of 65 million households. 
Forty-four percent of those ques­tioned said business was doing a good job of "developing new product,'' and 38 percent credited business with ''providing products and services that meet needs." 
From there, the rating plunged, with business scoring only eleven percent approval for its handling of shortages and its ability to provide value for money spent. 
The business community got the approval of only nine percent of the respondents for its pollution con­trols, eight percent for conserving natural resources, and seven per­cent for honesty in advertising. 
Responding to questions about individual businesses, 52 percent of the respondents approved of the performance of the airlines indus­try, while 39 percent like the performance of banks, 37 percent approved of savings and loan association services, and 36 per­cent said they were pleased with their telephone companies. 
On the ability to get things done, big business finished insixthplace, with a 25 percent approval rate. And on "honesty, dependability and integrity," the business rating fell to nine percent. 
Respondents had more faith in the ability of five other institutions to get things done. Although none had outstanding ratings, the top five were science and technology, with a 38 percent score; the broadcast news media, 35 percent; the medical profession, 29 percent; the print news media, 29 percent, and the Supreme Court, 25 per­cent. 
On the integrity question, science and technology again placed first with 41 percent, fol­lowed by the Supreme Court with 33 percent, origanized religion with 30 percent, the medical profession with 28 percent, and small business with 27 percent. 


For the student who re­quires slide-rule functions, the TI-57 delivers an exceptional combination of advanced mathematical and statistical capabilities. From functions such as trig, logs, powers, roots and reciprocals ... to mean, var­iance, standard deviation and much more. 
And as long as you're in the market for a super slide­rule calculator, why not buy one that can also put the power, speed and convenience of pro­gramming at your disposal? 
Programming a calculator 
simply means giving it a logical set of instructions for accom­plishing what you want it to do. Programming enables you to solve lengthy and repetitive problems 
quickly 
by sub­
stituting 
new vari­ables into the set of instructions which.you have al­

ready entered into the machine. -The end result is more effi­
cient use of your time in prob­lem-solving. 

All this and more is ex­plained in our unique, illus­trated, easy-to-follow guide­book, "Making Tracks Into Programming." This 200-page book comes with the TI-57. It contains simple, step-by-step instructions and examples to help you quickly learn to use programming functions to make your problem-solving faster, more accurate and fun. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ~ 
••• INNOVATORS IN PERSONAL ELECTRONICS 

TEXAS INSTRUME'NTS 
([) S7aTeXM lnstrvmeniSincorporated ,
I,

INCORPORAl'tD 
._....,.._·•·-----·· 

.,.,.,., ....._..,,. ... _.,..,_......._.. _________ .. ,_,_________........_,. _____ 
Labor leaders registered only a five percent approval rating on integrity, barely eclipsing the marks given politicians and the federal bureaucracy on this count. 
Marston affair continues 

WASHINGTON [AP] The Carter administration's current difficulties over the appointment of federal prosecutors, typified by the Marston affair, began even before Jimmy Carter took the oath of office. 
In the hectic days after the 

November 1976 election, but before 
the new administration took over in 
January 1977, Carter's campaign 
promise to take politics out of the 
selection of U.S. attorneys was 
challenged by Sen. James 0. 
Eastland, D-Miss. 

A year later, the issue of patronage appointments has em­broiled the administration in an embarrassing controversy sur­rounding the ouster of David W. Marston as the U.S arrorney in Philadelphia. Marston, a Republic­an with a record of winning corruption cases against Democrat­ic politicians, has assailed the administration for replacing him, and has won a host of congressional allies along the way. 
Eastland, 73, the long-ttme chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which confirms presi­dential nominees for federal judge­ships and prosecutor posts, met with Carter at the Georgia govern­or's mansion in Atlanta at a time when the president-elect was put­ting together his Cabinet. 
According to one account, Griftin Bell, then a federal appeals court judge, joined the meeting. Eastland reportedly told Carter and Bell that the old way of doing things was adequate and that there was no need for change. 
What Eastland was referring to was the time-honored practice of allowing a state's U.S. senators to pick federal prosecutors and judges, at least when the senators were of the same presidential party as the president. 
This prerogative was being chal­lenged by Carter's pledge, con­tained in a campaign position paper which declared: "All federal judges and prosecutors should be appointed strictly on the basis of merit, without any consideration of political aspect or influence." 
Both Eastland and Carter have recently said they don't recall talking about U.S. prosecutors at that meeting. 
But Marvin Wall, the Justice Department's chief spokesman, has been quoted as saying that Carter and Eastland talked about the appointment of prosecutors during their meeting in the man­sion and that Bell ''just sat in'' during the discussion. 
And Wall says it was Carter himself who agreed to set aside his campaign promise about appoint­ing federal prosecutors strictly on merit. 
Republican critics say Carter has lett the impression with many that his handling of the Marston case shows he has retreated from the position he spelled out as a candidate. 
The case led to more serious criticism of the administration 
when it was disclosed that Rep. Joshua Eilberg, D-Pa., asked Carter to speed Marston's firing at a time when Eilberg was under investigation by Marston's office. Carter has denied he was aware of the investigation when he spoke to Eilberg. 
nie administration has replaced 66 of the 94, U.S. arrorneys in the country, .~lecting a Republican in 
only one'ibstance . 


Monday, February 6, 1978 the observer 

Haldeman guesses on 'Deep Throat's' identity 
-

NEW YORK [API -Former Nixon aide H.R. Haldeman says in his forthcoming book he believes Fred Fielding, former deputy coun­sel to Richard Nixon, was the Watergate scandal's mysterious "Deep Throat," New York Maga­zine says. 
Tn :~ hriP.f entrv in its "New York 


Snow ~;culpture contest extended 
All dorms which are interested in participating in the Snow Sculpture contest still have time to do so. The judging of the contest, which was slated for yesterday, has been extended to Wednesday, Feb. 8. The extension is due to last week's outbreak of the flu, which put many dorms behind schedule in the -construction of their sculptures. 
Bishop to offer 'lifEt' Mass· 

Bishop William E. McManus, Bishop of Ft. Wayne/South Bend, will offer a mass in celebration of the sanctity of life on Thursday, Feb. 9, at 5 p.m. in the Moreau Seminary Chapel. All students, staff, and faculty of Notre Dame and St. Mary's are cordially invited to attend. The mass is being sponsored by the ND-SMC Right to Life Committee. 
two-fingers Tequila & soda shot 
Olympia drafts 

to read Mr. Haldeman's book. But all the tapes, erasing incriminating I can state that at least any part of conversations wherever he found his novel that names me as Deep them, but soon realized the task Throat is sheer fantasy and non­would take years," the magazine sense," he said. "I emphatically said, without further attribution. deny the story and the accusation.'' Haldeman was sentenced on 
Haldeman and Dean were not Feb. 21, 1975, to two and one-half available for comment. to eight years for conspiracy, 
'The magazine said that as for the obstruction of justice and perjury 18 and one-half minute erasure on charges related to the Watergate one of the White House tape investigation. In October last year, recordings which figured in the Judge John Sirica reduced his Watergate scandal, the book will sentence to one to four years. say it was Nixon himself and not his He· is presently in charge of the secretary, Rosemary Woods, who Lompoc Prison sewer facility -an was responsible. Woods had said administrative job -and will be she accidentally made the erasure eligible for parole April 27 after while transcribing the tape. serving one and one-half years at 
"Nixon intended to go through the California facility. 
PREPARE FOR: 
.,·Ill·LilT· ··-·Ill·liT -I.II,III·ECF•·REI·· 

NATL D!NTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS
........,.,...._...... 
.............g..,.,..,, 
~:u-PIIIIeCIII: 
l 
west I.efQette -~111111-
Cllmll
em TOT .....AitATIDit 
..qwiTS~I.. 
Serving BloomiDitoB, IDdlaDIPO)II, South 
Bend For :toeattona lu other -aue. 
Outside N.Y. Stlti Only CAlL TOLL nE1: •221-1112 Ctatlrtlll MIJor US Cltlll TllnllltD, ,_.atco 11141 ~lwltzwi'IIH 
MCAT, DAT, and LSAT Classes now forming. 


. ­
Intelligencer" section, the maga­zine said in this week's issue that it learned details in the yet to be published bcl'!QO~he Ends of Power from Haldeman family sources. 
The magazine said the book will name the 38-year old Fielding, who worked under White House counsel John Dean, as the source tt<;ed bv the Washington Post reporting team of Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein to break the Watergate scandal that led to Nixon's resigna­tion. 
Fielding, now a Washington lawyer, denied he was Deep Throat in a statement telephoned to The Associated Press. 
"I have not had the opportunity 

T -shirt Raffle 
1o the observer 
Outside pressure needed in Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa [AP]-American U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young says change in South Africa must be inspired by outside pressures because of the "absence of moral leadership" within the country. 
In an interview with a Johnnes­burg newspaper, the black diplo­mat said United States policy should be "non-cooperation" with the white-minority government. 
Young also said he does not fear, the Cuban presence in Africa, saying the Cubas' "lack of racism" may be a stronger influence than their Marxist ideologies. 
He said the recent crisis in racially divided South Africa stem­med not from U.S. pressure, but from the death of black conscious­ness leader Steve Biko, and Prime Minister John Vorster's massive security clampdown in October. 
Young was replying to a series of questions cabled by the liberal, Rand Dally Mall. His responses, sent through the U.S. embassy, were to be published in the newspaper Monday. 
Accusing South African security police of responsibility for the death of Biko, in detention last September, Young said: "After all it was Steve Biko's death and the massive bannings that produced the recent crisis, and nothing that vice president Walter Mondale or I said could have had any impact on the conduct of a South African jailer, nor could we have influenced the response of the South African government, which essentially supported the jailer's right to destroy the life of Steven Biko." 
Biko died from brain damage Sept. 12. In a controversial verdict, an inquest magistrate absolved security police of blame. 
Last May, after face·to-face talks with Vorster, Mondale urged "full participation" in South African affairs by the now disenfranchised 19 million black majority, outnum­bering their white rulers by nearly five to one. 
Questioned by reporters, Mon­dale acknowledged this could mean one-man one-vote. South African officials regularly point to this as proof that the Carter administra­tion seeks not concessions, but white "suicide" in a black-ruled South Africa. 
Illinois UFO's? 

[Continued from pageS] 
Police Chief Harold Howie was on hand to receive a sealed envelope that the magazine, based in New York, said contained the names of SO people who witnessed ~ the attack on Aug. 2, 1977. "Ill give it to the mayor," said Howie. 
Mayor Stanley Macieski did not attend but was said to have grave doubts about the incident. One resident conjectured the mayor was probably upset that the aliens rebuilt Chester exactly as it had been, passing by a good opportunity for urban renewal. 
On that bleak day in August, the magazine said in its January issue, saucers swooped down on the town on the banks of the Mississippi river, about 75 miles southeast of St. Louis, "and burned it to the ground, disrupting normal com-j munications and causing mass 1 panic." 
However, a statue of "Popeye the Sailor Man," erected in honor of Elzie Segar, the cartoon strip's I heator and a native son of Chester, either escaped the destruction or was restructured in a park. 
A key ingredient in Official UFO's case is a series of pictures in the magazine purporting to show th saucer attack. Unfortunately, those showing evidence of the extraterrestinl phenomena were blurred. 
Other photos were clear. One, of, a modern globular water tower, was captioned: "This weird object near the entrance of the Chester Mental Health Center has been giving off a weird glow" since August. 
-·-·-·· 4 


yesterday. [photos by Leo Hansen] · 

l:JNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SPECIAL 
Come to a 
FREE


Are you bogged down already? "Knowledge is a reflection of reading" 
SPEED READING LESSON 
"'' 

Increase Your Read.ing Speed 50-1 00°/o 
COMPARE AND DECIDE 
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc.  Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics  
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at  Partial refund of your tuition if you fail.  
least triple your Dynamic Reading Speed  
or you will receive a FULL refund.  
Advanced Course  No advanced course known at this time.  
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to  Their graduates are required to pay a  
retake the course to extend their skills at  registration fee to retake the course.  
no additional charge.  
Tuition Assistance Payment Plan. NO  Contractual obligation with finance charge.  
Finance Charge!!  
$175.00  $295.00  

ATTEND A FREE LESSON: 
Monday, 6 February 12 -2-4-6PM 
' 
Tuesday, 7 February 12 -2-4-6PM 
All meetings held at: The Center for Continuing Education room 14 downstairs 
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. A company estabfished by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing totally new concepts. Copyright 1977 Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
.., ··-... ... \........., -----.,., .. ~ ..;;··. -..... -.-.. .. .......-... --·~-.. ·--·:..-....... ~­


.................. ~,.. .• ·-········--.-.·---·--·-· ·······-·---____ ........................ .
. ·-·-.11111*111•~· ... 

----------------~­
~~-----------------------~---~-~ 
M~nday, February 6, 1978 the observer 

Irish dunk Davidson for 16th victory, 100-76 

rose to its feet. 
Meanwhile, Dave Batton, who ended up with sixteen points, was hitting from the perimeter and beyond. Irish reserve forward Randy Haefner checked-in to please .the crowd, and though he failed to score, he drew his share of streamers and applause from the confident crowd. In fact, the entire Irish squad played, with the excep­tion of Stan Wilcox, Gilbert Salinas and Tim Healy who were ill with flu. 
"The flu that's going around 
campus has hit us hard,'' related 
Phelps, "That's why we played so 
many different people today. 
We're just not physically up to 
par." 
The Irish still managed to get six players into ·double figures in scoring. Dave Batton led with sixteen, while Rich Branning docketted fifteen to follow up. Laimbeer had fourteen, Flower notched twelve, Woolridge had eleven, and Tripucka ten for the Irish. Bruce Flowers dominated the boards with ten rebounds, high for both teams. 
Following Gerdy's 33 points, Rich DiBenedetto had sixteen points and center Pat Rickert had 14 for the Widcats. 
"Notre Dame is an excellent team," Coach Kochan complimen­ted the Irish, "They're big, mobil · they're definite contenders for the national championship. They're the best rebounding team in the country. That's why they score so much--second effort.'' 
%Observer 
Sports 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

Two factors in the Irish 100-76 romp over David:;oon made the game worth seeing: John Gerdy, who is a show in himself, and "the dunk," practiced Saturday by a host of players. Though Gerdy's art was the purer of the two, it was the "dunk" that drew the applause --and even, perhaps, won the game. 
For the Irish, it was sixteenth notch in the Coach Digger Phelps, who is gunning for twenty victories and an NCAA bid. At this pace, both seem wen assured. 
For Davidson, it was their 31st consecutive road loss, dropping their record to 8-14, and another frustrating day for Wildcat Coach John Kochan. 
"Some of our people were a little intimidated coming in here," ad­mitted Kochan, "but heck, so was 
I." 

was, was Davidson's John Gerdy, the nation's sixth leading scorer. Gerdy's performance (14 for 20 from the floor, and total of 33 points) may have been the finest displayed at the ACC so far this year, and the Irish fans, shouting "shoot, shoot" each time he touched the ball, were not disap­pointed. Shoot he did...and 70% fell through. 
"That's not at all uncommon," 'commented Gerdy on the specta­tors' pleas, "It happens many places we play_. I don't feel any extra pressure this year because I'm one of the top scorers, I just go out and try to do my best, and play my hardest." 
While Gerdy was playing hard, however, the Irish were busy playing five man basketball, and doing well in the process. They took an early 8-2 lead in a flurry that saw Rich Branning hit from twenty and seventeen feet, and Dave Batton score four points, one on a dunk and one from the perimeter, straight away. 
It was obvious from Batton's first dunk that there were many more to come; and there were--eight more, to be exact. 
The Wildcats came back early in the first half, when Gerdy hit the first of his flawless jumpshots, forward Rich DiBenedetto scored twice and freshman standout Chris Dodds popped from twelve feet to tie the game at ten. 
The Irish took a permanent lead at the 15:30 mark, when Kelly Tripucka, boxing out wen beneath the basket, scored on a layup. Bruce Flowers then went to work, taking a pretty pass from Branning and converting it, . before hitting two from the free throw line to add to the lead the Irish never lost. 
Forward Bill Hanzlik, stationed at the top of the key, was brought in to try and defend against Gerdy's attack. Hanzlik held Gerdy to six points through the last half of the first stanza, and added to his performance a steal and a slam-dunk. 
"He didn't stop John (Gerdy)," commented Coach Kochan, spea­king of Bill Hanzlik's play in the first half, "nobody's been able to stop him. We didn't change anything as a result of Hanzlik coming into the game." 
The remainder of the first half turned in to a shooting contest, with Notre Dame coming out on top 45-37. However, Davidson's half­time field-goal percentage of .666 kept them in the game. Twenty of those Wildcat points came from the hands of Gerdy. 
"I thought in the first half that we failed to meet the defensive challeng~ of stopping John Ger­dy," commented Phelps after the game. ''The fact that he scored twenty points in the first half is a compliment to him. He's really a fine ball player." 
In the second half, the Irish played the zone, substituted liber­ally and finally took a large lead, with the team getting good outside shooting from Branning, Batton and Flowers, and good inside work from Orlando Woolridge, Bill Laimbeer and Tracy Jackson. 
With the Irish lead building every minute, despite the efforts of DiBenedetto and Gerdy, Orlando Woolridge kept the fans amused with a display of what Bill Russell would call "very· high percentage shots." 
The first came midway through the period from Jackson and put the Irish up by sixteen. 
Two minutes later, it was Jack­son feeding Woolridge for another dunk. This one make the score 83-64. 
With three minutes remaining cameWoolridge'sthird, this one on a pass from Williams. Davidson called time out . .. and the crowd 


LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Green and gold ski cap in cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
LOST: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat. night. Special X-Mas present ­reward, call Kevin 1655. 
FOUND: Silver wire rimmed glasses outside the ACC before Maryland game. Call1475. 
LOST: Round 14 K gold medal the size of a.quarter. Has face of sun with acrack on the medal. Also has agold Italian hom. Lost Thurs. Jan 26 morning between Fischer and Dining Hall . Substantial Reward. Call Mike, 3010. 
FOUND: A black wallet behind Lyons Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed are an Indiana Drivers liscense, work ID and Library card. Call to identify at 1715. 
LOST: Set of keys by the ACC ice rink. Honda key. Please call 277-0222, 234-8279 or turn Into rink pro shop for Thelma. 
LOST: One blue ski glove (left hand) between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thrusday Feb. 2, appx. 4:45pm. If found please contact George at 1248. 
FOR SALE 
Women's size 8 Dachstein Hiking Boot -brand new!! Reduced price! Call 679-4496. 
FOR SALE: 19.6 Coachman Travel Trail­er; like new condition; sleeps six; self contained.· $3300. Call after 6 pm. 272-8308. 
FULL COLOR COTION BOWL PIC­TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
FOR SALE: BIC 981 turntable only three months old. Comes with Shure M91ED cartridge walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. 
Pair fischer two way speakers. Good condition. Call Drew, 1487. 
WANTED 
Desperately need 1 GA tickets for the Marquette game. Call Ron 3313. 
Need 4tix to Marquette game. Will pay top$$$. Call 277-5137.• 
Need one or two female apt.mates at N D apts. Call 284-4953 or 288-8767. 
Need ride to Dayton Oh., weekend of February 1Q-12. Call Dave 8303 or Tom 8624. 
Need two GA Marquette tickets or parents will disown me. Will pay big bucks and even throw in date with my mother. Kevin, 8453. 
1 need two GA Marquette tickets real bad. George, 1248. 
Need ride to East Lansing Michigan week end of Feb. 10. Call Katie 6798. 
Need five GA DePaul Tix. $$$Tony 1610 or 1608. 
Wanted. 4 Marquette tix. Call Jim at 1419. 
WANTED: One 'Marquette student tic­ket. Call Mike at 1424. 
Wanted: 4 DePaul tickets. Call1153. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area after Wednesday. Call Val-7088. 
Need up to two people to sublet N D Ave. apt, now until May. Call Beth 6722. 
Wanted: Weekend householdr for local halfway house facility. Overnight st;ly required. Small salary, room and board and excellent experience. Call 234-1049 !1Jr further information. 
I need two GA or student tickets to DePaul! Call Louis at 1207. 
Need students for short term, part time employment with the American Lung Association .. Must have own transporta­tion. $2.65-hr. plus gas. 287-2321. 
One two or three female roomates needed for campus view apts. Call 7060. 
Need four GA tickets to any home weekend basketball . Call 4-1-5745 
House parent, room and board plus $85 per week, tax free. Close to campus. Flexible hours. 232-4805. 
Need two Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette tix, will pay reasonable sum of $$. Call 1612. 
Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your price. Call Russ at 8772. 
Need up to four GA tickets for any home basketball game, preferably DePaul. Call Pat, 1068. 
Need a babysitter? Available late afternoons and any evenings. Call Jill, 283-1705. 
Need four GA DePaul tix. Any price! 
Call Bonnie, 6239. 
Need ride to western PA. Feb 10 or later. 
Will share $$. Call Joe 8688. 
Need ride to Columbus, Oh., Feb. 10. 
Call Molly, 1312. 
Babysitter for three year old boy Tues-• days<'iind Thursdays 12 to 5 pm (If . possible, 10 am to 5 pm). Near Campus. 232-9541. 
PERSONALS 
ATIENTION: Cutest guy on campus challlenge: Tickling duel. Your place, my terms. Determined to win. 
liAPPY LATE BIRTHDAY JILLI Next ime, don't have your birthday in a lizzard. 
Pickles. 
1 CAMPUS PRESS PEOPLE: Thanks for the notepads. That was so nice. You people are great. Jodie 
Need four GA tlx for Marquette. SMC ­4530. Betsy. 
Haircuts, cheap styles , trims. 4530, Betsy. 
SCHOLASTIC: Positions now open, writing, prQ(juctionl• staffs. Writers meeting 7:00 pm GFeb. 5. production workshop 6:30 Mon. Feb. 6. Be There. 
Desperately need Marquette tickets. Dannie -SMC 5330. 
Need 4 GA DePaul tix. Call Margie SMC 5336. 
Need four GA Marquette tix. Call Mary SMC 5781. 
Delores, Happy, Happy, Happy Birthday. 
0 Album Talk....American Stars and 
MaiY and Michelle, Thanks, you're great!! 
Pat Corbett, Happy Birthday, Old Man! 
EBM-444 Is the proper attire for the HC formal a piece suit or a pair of gym trunks? David­


----~-~------------­
Monday, February 6, 1978
12 the observer 

Irish capture Catholic wrestling title 
by Brian Beglane Jarecki 6-2 for the crown. Before 
Dame. George Gedney (118) and
Sports Writer that he beat John Elton of St. .., ·: ,
Dave DiSabato (126) wound up in 
John's 14-6 and Jim Reinert of ~ 
second place.
Bob Golic is not one to waste Scranton 12-4. 
"Our kids wanted to win this 
time. The junior from Cleveland, "My win in the final was the 
tournament and they went out and 
Ohio easily disposed of his three hardest of the three and it felt good 
did it. It's the first time in a while 
opponents yesterday as the Notre to beat Jarecki because I had lost to 
John Carroll has not won the 
Dame wrestling team captured the his brother. At least I was able to 
tournament so it feels very good to 
National Catholic Invitational beat the younger of the two," 
be champs," commented Sepeta.
Championship in the all·day tour­noted the 150 pounder. 
John Carroll had three tourna­
ney held at the ACC Fieldhouse. Mike Padden and Rob Dreger 
ment champions. John Jack­
The Irish totaled 92 points to win round out the list of Irish cham­
son (126), Tom Cua (142), and Jim 
their first championship. pions. Padden beat Vitas Kijaus­
Weir (167) all took top honors. 
John Carroll took home second kas of John Carroll ll-1 for the 177 
Weir won his fourth straight NCIT 
team honors with 65 points while pound title. On his way to the final 
crown and was named the tourna­
Marquette was next with 51 and he beat Tom Grimmer of St. 
ment's Most Outstanding Wrest­
one-quarter. St. John's of Minne­Joseph's, Jim Mooney of St. John ler. 
sou was fourth with 34 and Fisher, and Fred Brownlee of 
George Stephenson of St. Mary's
one-half points followed by Scran­Dayton. 
finished as 118 pound champion
ton with 34 points. Dreger defeated Marquette's 
while Sandy Spero of St. John 
Mark Reitz 15-3 and Kevin O'Neill
The blue and gold grapplers Fisher took the 134 pound division. 
of John Carroll 10-6.
finished the day with four indivi­Dan Herman captured the lone 
"You really have to give Dreger 
dual champions while Irish Head championship for Marquette with
and Padden a lot of credit. It was
Coach Ray Sepeta received Nation­his 190 pound title. 
their first championship and they
al Catholic Coach of the Year The Irish will be away at John
performed very well in a tight
honors for the third consecutive Carroll this Saturday after hosting
situation," noted Sepeta. 
•

season. Western Michigan on Wednesday.
"We cannot forget, however,
Pat McKillen (150), Mike Pad­Notre Dame has never beaten the
how as whole
den (158), Rob Dreger (177), and the team a per­Blue Streaks in dual meet but
formed. We placed in either the
Bob Golic (HWT) all captured McKillen thinks the timing is just
consolations or the finals nine out
National Catholic championships. right.
of ten times and if we hadn't done
For Golic. necessity was the "We beat John Carroll in the 
that it might have been a different
mother of invention. "I have only tournament without having ever
story."
been practicing since Tuesday so I beaten them in a dual meet. This 
John Torres (134), Chris Favo
was not in the best of shape for the looks like the year."
(142), and Joe Kurletta (190) all
tournament. The three pins were For the Notre Dame wrestling, Head Coach Ray Sepeta [right] was named National Catholic Coach 
captured fourth place for Notre
something I had to do because if I this is definitely the year. o_f !he Year for the third straight year after yesterday's first place had to go the whole eight minutes hmsh. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] for each match I might have been in -~ 
bad shape." explained Notre ill ' • 
·'-~[Pn JIr-------------.. 
Dame's heavyweight. •> " 
:i 
Golic's first pin ot the aay came • at the hands of Bill Springer of St. Joseph's College in 1:15. Bob pinned Ron Wooas of Dayton in 
*
1:38 before handling Bob Burgess of King's College in 2:57 for his third straight NCIT championship. 
Ul cr 0 

His three falls earned him the tournament trophy for most pins. 
(/) "Overall I thought our team did fantastic. Everybody wrestled just m
u

super and we just tore this place apart," noted Golic. l Notre Dame Coach Sepeta more than agreed with his star wrestler. "It feels just great having won 
0 (0< 
both Coach of the Year honors and 
...~

capturing the championship, but I ~
.,

am much happier in winning the team title. We have taken second and third place the last few years and when you keep doing that you know you have just got to get I 
r-t
better," noted the coach. The Irish could not have done much better than they did yester­
• 

day. All but one of the Notre Bob Colic [behind] had three pins yesterday to win the heavyweight division of the National 
Llll I I 
Dame wrestlers made it into either Catholic Invitational Championship. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] the finals or the consolation finals (six in the championships, three in the consolations). While the Irish Take 6th place won the tourney by nearly 30 points, Sepeta never forgot about defending champion John Carroll. 
leers sweep Michigan series, 7-4,5-1
"All the while we were winning I never forgot about them because they are always out to get you and by Chip Scanlon The Irish raised ·their record to holm added two more goals and the blueliner. The goal was Jackson's 
could have come back in no time. Sports Writer 9-12-1 in the WCHA; a 9 win, 4loss Irish blitzkrieg had a 6-3 lead after fourth in three games and capped a The outcome could be different if and 1 tie stretch since a rocky start two periods. four goal outburst for the Irish that the tournament were held a day Ann Arbor--Capitalizing on their when the young Irish lost eight Kip Maurer gave the Wolverines Michigan never answered. later. It was that close." best team effort of the year the straight. a lift and cut the lead to 6-4 but The weekend included several 
I 
I Pat McKillen also captured his Notre Dame hockey team revenged "It was probably our best team Greg Meredith drilled a slapshot other highlights for the Irish, one of third straight NCIT title. The an earlier season setback with a effort of the year," commented that sealed the victory. Len Moher them the strong play of the new senior co-captain from Waukegan, sweep of the Michigan Wolverines co-captain Dick Howe. "No one made24saves through the first two defensive pairings Smith has put 
111.. decisioned Marquette's Tim at the Yost Ice Arena, 7-4, 5-1. The player stood out and everyone did periods and finished with a game together. Pairing a senior with 
I two wins gave the Irish sole their job the best they could. It total of 33 in a busy outing. each of the freshmen defensemen, possession of sixth place in the payed off with a sweep of a very Saturday, Michigan Coach Dan Smith has utilized three sets of WCHA and moved them within one talented Michigan club." Farrell tried to juggle his line-up blueliners that have clicked.
Irish, Belles

~ 
point of fifth place with two games In Friday night's contest Notre after his team's lOth loss in eleven Jackson and Don Lucia, Dick Howe in hand on everyone but North Dame jumped out to a 2-0 lead in outings, but Steve Schneider and Jeff Brownschidle, and Byers
' 
to clash tonight Dakota. the first 4:50 of the game as solved th!! situation and goalie Rick and Cameron have performed well The Notre Dame women's bas­"I was really pleased with the Michigan's Ben Kawa and Bill Palmer when he stuffed a shot for the Irish as the freshmen gain ketball team and the St. Mary's hustle and agressiveness our Wheeler went to the penalty box, behind :>.n out of position Palmer. important game experience at the 
Belles will meet in a classic battle skaters showed on both nights," giving the Irish a 5 on 3 advantage. The goal kept Notre Dame ahead side of the senior blueliners. at 7 p.m. tonight on the main floor exclaimed Lefty Smith. "Our Don Jackson scored his first goal of until the 13 minute mark of the Brian Burke also played well 
discipline, style and conduct were the weekend and third in two second period as John Peterson filling in for injured Don Fair holm. 
of the ACC arena. The Notre 

Dame team goes into this game very important to the weekend's games with a shot from the point was beaten by Gordie Hampson on Burke notched his first assist of the with a five and one record, while success.'' while the Notre Dame power play a breakaway after Jeff Brown­season and moved the puck well. St. Mary's carries a three and two So was the fact that the Irish was· setting up in the Michigan schidle caught an edge and stum­He and Kevin Nagurski saw duty record. scored 12 goals for their weekend's zone. Then just I :07 later Kevin bled. Hampson's goal was all the and made the best of their chances work with 13 skaters figuring in the Nugent knocked in a rebound shot Wolverines could get by Peterson after missing the first half of the scoring. Notre Dame neve1 trailed and whatever hope the Wolves and then Notre Dame took over. season. Dahrling named the Wolverines throughout the two entertained about breaking their Geoff Collier scored twi..:e in a Notre Dame now prepares to games and outstanding efforts by own losing streak rapidly dimi­spread of 24 seconds with some battle the Michigan Tech Huskies Irish netminders Len Moher and help from Dan Byers, Scott Came­this weekend at the Athletic and
Debbie Dahrling, a St. Mary's nished. 
John Peterson held Michigan's In the second period co-captain ron and Steve Schneider and Notre Convocation Center. The Irish split junior. has been named Women's high scoring forwards to only five Terry Fairholm added a third goal Dame had a 3-1 lead after two an earlier series with the HuskiesSports Editor for The Observer. 
goals. and then Tom Michalek, a Detroit periods. Freshman Kevin Hum­at Houghton, 4-2, 1-7. The IrishDahrling, from Albuquerque, New "The goaltenders came up with hero returning home to play before phreys fired a slap shot by Palmer will be trying to overtake MichiganMexico, will be responsible for 
coverage of both Notre Dame and the fantastic efforts again, the kind a large cheering section. put the in the third and Jackson scored a for fifth place in the WCHA, that we need from them to continue Irish ahead, 4-1 at the 6:21 mark. goal ., the finishing touch needing to gain two points to move
St. Mary's women's sports events. 

our hot streak," oraises Smith. Steve Schneider and Terry Fair-on a rink long rush for the senior ahead. 
• 










