
Tailgater~ proceed without problem 


The Observer 
an independent student ne"'spaper serving notre dame and st._!llary's 
No major problems were encountered at Saturday's pre-game 
keggers, as this student will attest. (photo by Mark Muench).Vor: X Ill, No. 10 Monday, September 11, 1978 
HPC creates new input committee 

by Kevin Richardson ted by a student committee headed Staff Reporter by Student Body President Andy McKenna, and approved by Uni­
The Hall President's Council versity officials. (HPC) met last night to discuss the A committee consisting of Pang­events of the past weekend and to born President Jose Marerro, implement the compromise regar­Grace President Jim O'Hare, Plan­ding student input into University ner President Tom Paese and policy proposed last Thursday Dillon President Marty Paulsen night. The compromise was draf-was formed to develop a statement 
--------------~--~-=~~========= 
of purpose and a plan of action to 
enhance input into the University 
policy-making process. 
Other members of the committee 
include Student Body President 
Andy McKenna, Student Union 
Director Bill Roche, Judicial Coor­
dinator Jayne Rizzo, HPC Chair­
man Chuck Delgrande, and a 
representative from THE OBSER­
VER. 
Specifically discussed was the 
alcohol consumption of the student 
body Saturday, with regard to the 
directive issued by Dean of Stu­
dents' James Roemer last week. 
HPC members concurred that the 
student body had demonstrated "responsible drinking." "We had absolutely no prob­lem" stated Paese. Morrero said 
In Beirut 

Syrians bomb Christians 
BEIRUT Lebanon (AP)-Syrian gunners rained more than 2,000 rockets on Christian neighborhoods in Beirut overnight, killing three persons and blasting gaping holes in 300 apartments Christian militia sources said yesterday. 
Sixty persons were wounded as rockets and tank fire set 22 buildings ablaze, the sources said. 
The Christians' Voice of Lebanon radio said Syrian gunners opened fire again yesterday afternoon, using heavy artillery and rocket propelled grenades in an hour long barrage that damaged scores of apartment houses. 
"Local residents scrambled a­new for shelter in basements, to avoid this indiscriminate shelling,"­the radio said. 
It also broadcast "an urgent appeal'' for blood donors at a number of hospitals in East Beirut, saying. "Every drop of blood you that "we ran out of coke before we ran out of beer. " Another hall president noted that "anyone who drank a lot must have really paid for it with the heat. It was worse than any punishment the Univer­sity could have imposed.'' 

Another hall president com­mented that "I took a walk through the alumni and non-student areas where drinking was going on and I saw a lot more 'irresponsible' drinking going on there than in the student areas." 
McKenna said he is considering comparing the amount of alcohol­related refuse collected in alumni seating areas of the stadium with the amount collected in student seating areas. 
The hall presidents also discus-
donate can save the life of an injured citizen." 
Rightist snipers fired throughout the day at key intersections in Christian areas, impeding civilian traffic, the radio said. 
Rightist Christain leaders claim­ed the Syrian offensive was an attempt to sabotage the Mideast peast talks at Camp David. Syria has declared its opposition to the U.S.-sponsored meeting of Egyp­tian Premier Manachem Begin. 
The Syrians have not said what prompted the latest fighting. 
"There is no justification for this escalation of hostilities by the Syrians." former President Camille Chamoun said in a statement broadcast by Voice of Lebanon radio. ''The Syrians are trying to undermine the Camp David sum­mit.'' 
, Phalangist Party leader Pierre Gemavel, who commands the strongest Christia militia band in Lebanllfi, urged the Camp David sed what they will seek in their coming meetings with University officials, in addition to more stu­dent input. 
"The incredible variance of party and drinking among the halls" was mentioned by one hall president as an important issue. Another HPC member agreed, "The variance in hall policies now prevents 'sociable drinking' from occuring in many dorms and possibly leads to the type of 'irresponsible drinking' the University is so concerned about." 
"In a social situation, alcohol doesn't play a first priority. Rather, most people are worried about meeting members of the opposite sex and not about how much they can drink.'' Morerro 
[continued on (NI8e 2) 

conferees to take up the Lebanese crises as part of any Middle East settlement. 
Yesterday was the fourth day of the latest round of fighting be­tween Chrsitian Militiamen and the Syrian forces, who form the bulk of a 30,000 man Arab League peacekeeping army. 
The Syrians came to Lebanon at the request of the Christian dominated government nearly two years ago to quell the 1975-76 civil war between the rightists and an alliance of leftist Moslems and Palestinaian guerillas. 
The Christians are protesting Syria's continued presence in Le­banon and its efforts to disarm the militias. :rhe Syrians are chafmg over the Christians' cooperation with Israel in southern Lebanon. Israeli forces, aided by the Chris­tians, began a 90-day occupation of a large section of the south on March 15 to ward off Palestinian raids into Israel. 
by Audy Segovia Staff Reporter 

According to Student Body Pre­sident Andy McKenna and many participating students, the football game festivities, including keggers and tailgaters, proceeded with no major alcohol problems. 
"I walked around Green Field before tbe game," McKenna said. "It was a social event, the atmos­phere was really passive, and everyone was acting in aresponsible manner." 
However,. McKenna pointed out that some Morrissey students did 
• encounter some minor problems. The students claim that Director of Security Arthur Pears would not allow the beer delivery truck to unload two kegs on Green Field. 
"The truck was allowed to deposit some kegs at the Law Building, but we were told that we had to unload the kegs off campus and bring 1them on campus in another vellicle," the Morrissey students st~ted. 
•'This appeared to be the only incident ou~ there and seemed to be inconsistent with the understand­ing we hajl with the Administra­tion," ·Mdrrlssey President Ken Kadlock Sfid. 
'It was a social event .•. ' 
According to Kadlock, the Ad­ministration stated they would not give the students any problems as long a:s the hall presidents and those :involved insured that re­sponsible drinking occurred at the 
events.  
Kadlock  emphasized  that  no  
action  has  been  taken  on  the  
students  and  he  considers  the  
matter closed.  

No other problems were encoun­
tered at the various tailgaters and keggers. Among the dorms which sponsored keggers were Planner, Dillon, Keenan, Cavanaugh, and Alumni. In addition, various alumni associations sponsored keg­gers. 
"I have been here all day and have found no problems. Every­body is enjoying themselves in a very responsible manner," Pang­born student Kevin Smith noted. 
"Everyone has been cooperating fully. The biggest problem so far has been the heat,'' another stu­dent observed. 
Apparently, no major alcohol 
problems were encountered in fhe 
stadium during the game. Me 
Kenna stated, "As far as we know, 
no major incident involving a 
student's abuse of alcohol occurred 
at the football game.'' 
"All the day's activities were carried out really well," McKenna ·reflect~d. 

Bruce Springsteen and the E. Street Band performed a superb concert In the ACC Saturday night. 
,....News Briefs_______,_ 
~:::""::::====================================World 
Art l{aller_y _firebombed 
TUIUN, Italy [AP]· A man and two women, disguised as a monk and nuns, firebombed an art gallery faturing paintings that dealt with the Holy Shroud and the Kidnap-murder of former Premier Aldo Moro, police said yesterday. Police said the trio slashed several paintings and on one depicing the kidnapping Moro painted the slogan, "Bas-ta con Moro" -Enough about Moro -before setting fire to the building. No one has asserted responsibility for the attack, police said 
t=:=:==================================== National 

Indians protestinl{ ban 
KLAMATH, Calif•• The Yurok Indians of the rugged northwest corner of California are locked in a dispute with the federal government over a two-week-old ban on salmon fishing they say is insensitive to their economic and spiritual needs. Since imposition of the ban two weeks ago, several Indians have been arrested, including six who allegedly attacked federal agents with boat oars. Others have been cited for violating the ban. The Indians demanded that Interior Secretary Cecil Andrus impose a moratorium on commercial fishing permits up to 200 miles from the river's mouth, order a halt to logging and the use of herbicides in the Klamath watershed, and grant the Indians unfettered fishing rights and allow them to make and enforce their own rules. Andrus conceded that fishing on the reservation should be controlled by Indians, but said they first must agree on a common governing body. 

Fire rages in Denver 
DENVER-A fast spreading forest fire raged out of control yesterday through more than 1,000 acres of crackling dry timber and brush in the foothills and cany9ons southwest of Denver. Authorities ordered residents to evacuate some of the expensive homes that dot the steep ridges. At one point, flames were within a half of a mile of the SSS millions world headquarters complex of the Johns-Manville Corp. The blaze came at the end of Denver's hottest summer on record, with 52 days of high temperatures around 90 degrees. About a quarte\ of an inch of rain has been reported since Aug. 1. 

Train derails in Ohio 
MIAMISBURG, Ohio-A Conrail freight train derailed in a residential section of this southwest Ohio city yesterday killing at least three persons and injuring at least seven, officials said. Officials did not immediately identify the victims, but said two women and an infant were killed. Authorities asked some residents of the area to leave because of fear that the derailed cars were 
loaded with noxious chemicals. 
Last Warner is dead 
HOUYWOOD· Jack L. Warner, one of the four legendary Warner brothers who pioneered the era of talking motion pictures and produced such movie classics as "The Jazz Singer" and "Casablance," is dead at age 66. Stirred by the 1903 release of "The Great Train Robbery," Warner and three of his older brothers. Harry, Sam and Albert-all of whom Jack outlived formed Warner Bros. that year. They scraped together $1,000 bought a projector, rented a vacant store in New Castle, Pa., and converted it into a theater romantically named "The Bijou." The brothers soon branched into motion picture productin moving first to St. Louis and then to California. In 1927, Warner Bros. produced the first talking film, "The Jazz Singer" with AI Johson. 

Weather 

Hot and Humid today and tomorrow with a 40 percent chance of scatered thundershowers today. Highs both days in the upper 80s and lower 90s. Lows Monday night in the mid to upper 60s with a 30 percent chance of scatered thundershowers. 

~On Campus Today _ ___.. 
3:30p.m. 
5-6:30 p.m. 
7 p.m. 
7 p.m.' 
7 p.m. 
midnight' 

general off-campus meeting, sponsored by student government off-campus office, all interested stu­dents invited, caron court, Iafortune student center. 
sign-up sheets for fasting passed out, sponsored by world hunger coalition, north and south dining halls. 
organizational meeting, pre-law society, past and prospective members invited, library auditorium. 
activities night, sponsored by freshmen orientation committee, all students invited, stepan center. 
nasa film festival, seven films on the topic of space exploration, sponsored by student union academic commissi<1n, engineering building, nocharge. 
opening of darby's place, informal midnight to 4 
a.m. coffee shop, basement of Iafortune. 
I 


Hunger Coalition plans fasts 
by Mike Shields 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition (WHC) will begin taking pledges today for its annual Wednesday night fasting program to aid the world hungry, according to WHC Secretary Helen Gallagher. 
In order "to become more aware of the problems of hunger through fasting" and to "enable the dining hall to contribute financially to the hungry," students are urged not to eat dinner on Wednesday nights from Sept. 20 to Dec.20 (with the exceptions of exam weeks,) Gal­lagher said. 
Pledges for student fasters are available· in the dining halls. 
The dining hail will donate 75 cents per person meal to the WHC. "The dining hall is giving the Hunger Coalition the best deal possible considering their overhead cost per meal'' the pledge form reads, adding, "the Hunger Coali­tion is very pleased with the dining hall's cooperation." 
Aside from organizing student fasts, the WHC is also fighting world hunger by collecting dona­tions in front of the dining halls and by edu.cating the public to the needs of the unfortunate, 6al­lagher noted. 
"If we are educateo to _the problems," Gallagher said, "we will act against hunger.'' Members of the Coalition have also attended, hunger seminars and supported boycotts, such as the current boycott against Nestle, according to Gallagher. 
The WHC was successful last year, collecting $15,800 in dona­
tions, according to Nancy Dise, 
public relations director for the 
WH C. The following organizations 
were the benficiaries: 
In the United States: 

C.R.O.P. [$1000] C.R.O.P. is the community hunger appeal of Church World Service. Its chief services are distribution of tools and field and garden seed. According to Farm Journal, "C.R.O.P. has collected and spent $70 million to help the world's unfortunate. The organization also has distributed about $70 million of government donated commo­dities." 
Justice and Peace Center [$2550] This South Bend organization aids with "small, day to day problems," says Jim Cycon, coordinator for last year's WHC. These problems include excessive doctor and me­dical bills and legal aid. 
Overseas: 

Indian villages [$1550] Financial aid was given to certain villages in India sponsored by Basil O'Leary, assistant professor of Theology. 
Santa Rosa Proposal [$3000] This is a Chilean day care center run by 
C.S.C priests 

Mother Teresa of Calcutta [$1000] Funds were sent to Mother Teresa to aid in her struggle to feed the hungry in India. 
Choi-Chol Foundation f$10001 This agency supports agricultural development in Chile. Catholic Relief Services ($1000; 
This worldwide organization dis­tributes food and other necessities \ to the needy. 
"Christians Concerned for Chile" ($2000) This church-run agency provides free food for the poor. It is one of the few places in Chile where the government has allowed more than four people to gather at one time. 
OXF AM-AMERICA [$3000] This agency aids in the "funding of local self-help projects,'' explained Cycon. Local laborers and material are used to help stimulate the economy. 
The WHC is careful in its selection of agencies which receive financial backing. "We require an itemized list of expenses," Dise said. "Any · agency with high overhead, such as administrative costs, is not acceptable." 
Council organizes committee 

[continued from page 1] said. This statement brought agree­ment from other HPC members, one of whom stated, "You drink a lot less at a kegger or a party because you hav to stand in line for a long time to get something to drink. Also, your attention is focused on socializing -not drink­ing." "It's important," Morerro said, "that we show the Administration that drinking isn't the central issue here. We don't want to be misunderstood about this." 
Now get the best Pizza in town delivered right to your door, 
:: nightly from 6·1 0 pm 
31 N. AT DARDEN RD. 

i ~f WIDE SCREEN FOOTBALL! 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 

: HAPPY HOURS! Mon.-Fri., 5-7pm
1
272-0945

: I Mug of Stroh's or Pabst, just 25~ 
·~vv~~~vv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA~~~~~~~~ 
*The Observer 
Night  Editor:  Scoop  "Schi·  
zoid" Sullivan  
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Margie  
"insomnia" Brassii  
Layout  Staff:  Mary  "H abe­ 

phrenic" inwood, Ann "am­nesia" Titus. Margaret "Py­romania" Kruse. Steve "De­lusions" Odland Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layoui: Paul Mullaney, Craig C hval ' Typists: Kim C9nvey, Mary McCauley, Anne Giere Early Morning Typist: Katie Brehi/Lisa DiValerio Day Editor: Ann "Claustro­phobia" Gales, we think Copy Reader: Reed "Para­noid" King Ad Layout: God knows· Call him Photographer: Mark "K lep· tomania" Muench 
The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publi$hed by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per yur (S 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Sox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SH. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer 11 a member of the Anoclated Preu. All repro­duction rlghfl are re1erved. 


with Special Guest 
AC/DC 
SATURDAY SEPT. 30 BP.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
festival seating on floor $ 8.50/.. reserved seats$ !l.SO and $7.50 on sale now at ACC Box office 
' "-I 
. ' . 
\ > .(· 

Overcrowded parking forces student cars into D-1 spaces 
---~------------------------.---., 
'by John Mahon 

Many South Quad residents are being forced to park their cars in 
• the D-1 parking lot, situated near Flanner and Grace, because of the early closure of the D-2 lot, located behind the University Club. Arthur Pears, director of Secur­ity, said that the distribution of parkir.g, stickers was effected on a first •:orne-first serve basis. "There are 267 parking spaces in the D-2 lot," he said, "and they were simply all given out. There is plenty of room in the D-1 lot, however." Last year, Pears noted, more stickers were given out for the D-2 
_lot than there were parking spaces. "Extras are printed up each year," he said, "to accomodate those students that change cars in the 
.J-Board organizes 
by Mlchale Frailey 

The Notre Dame Judicial Ceuncil will be emphasizing communica­tion and increased student aware­nljlss as it prepares for the up­coming school year, according to Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo. 
"The role of the Judicial Coundt is to provide assistance to students who violate University rules and regUIIations," Rizzo noted. 
"However since we are off the University Judicial Board, students no longer have a formal voice in. the judicial process," she explained. "Communication between the stu­dents, rectors, and administrators is our only access point.:' 
Rizzo revealed some specific plans that will encourage this communication in the upcoming 
CAP organizes. new directory 

The Committee on Academic • Progress (CAP) is now in the 
process of updating its member­
ship listing. 
Students whose address differs from the Preliminary University Directory listing, or students who have changed or declared a major 
~~:~~t~:~! ~fp0~i~~ ~~s f~::r'!n~~ 
tion. Call 2133 or leave a message in ·346 O'Shuaghnessy by to­morrow. 
JNSHP to recruit new tutors 
· The Neighborhood Study Help 
Program (NSHP) will be recruiting tutors for this semester at dinner this week. Sign-ups will be 
tomorrow at the South Dining Hall, Wednesday at the North Dining Hall, and Thursday at the Saint Mary's Dining Hall. 
The NSHP conducts tutoring throughout South Bend for grade school children. Times are avail­
ableintheafternoonandevening.
Transportation is provided. ' 
.................1~fi~~..............4 



OCCO'S 
BARBERS 
·hairstylists 
531.N. Michigan 

middle of the year and need a new sticker. Last year all of the extra stickers were given out before we became aware of it." 
To make up for last year's over-allocation the students were allowed to overflow into the C-4 lot. The hours now allowed for ·student parking in this lot are'(rom 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. • 
"Up until now we have been tolerant of parking in the C-4 lot," stated Pears, "but starting Mon­day we will have to begin enforcing the rules." 
''There is plenty of room in the D-1 parking lot," he explained. "Students who complain of the long walk there should remember that residents of Flanner and Grace have an equally long walk when­ever they want to get to the Rock.'' 
"There are just as many spaces in the lots this year .as last. We 
school year. "We will soon begin our workshop program for all J-Board Chairmen," she said. "We hope this will give the chairman an idea of the proper way to handle cases within the halls." 
Another course of action cited by the judicial coordinator is a letter to be sent to all students by the end of this week, explaining the judicial process here at ND. 
According to Rizzo, ''the letter will be very clear and explicit· in explaining the rights and disciplin­ary procedures spelled out in DuLac. "She added that "it is very important that the students realize what is actually in DuLac." 
Rizzo also commented briefly on 
the alcohol directive issued b~ Dean of Students James Roemer. Rizzo explained that altough she felt that Roemer was ''very sin­cere" in liis concern for student alcohol abuse, "problems arose because of the lack of a formal mechanism for student imput." She added, "this is a major concern 
of the Judicial Council: strengthen­
ing the students' voice." 
Rizzo asks students "not to hesitate" in contacting her, Execu­tive Officers Kristin Quann and 
Kevin Mescall, or their hall J-Board chairman. The Judicial Council offices are located on the second floor of LaFortune and can be reached by phone at 283-6413. 
have not decreased the number of spaces availaple to the students," Pears said. 
• Pears didn't know if there were more students registered this year than last for on-campus parking. He suspected, however, that "from what I have read in the paper there is a housing shortage, and this may be indicative of an increasing number of cars being brought on campus." 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant 
provost, !'aid she was unaware of the problem. She did say, however, "that any type of on-campus walking alone at night is a problem. .If students do," in f-act, have to walk across the campus, then this will 
increase the problem." 
Tricia Gibbons, a. resident of 
Lyon's Hall, said, "Many people 
are angry about this. They just 
weren't thinking about the stu­
dents when they did this." 
"I've had this car here for three 
years, and Security always told me 
that if you lived in Lyons you 
~utomatically go right into D-2." 
"What's even worse is • that many students, like myself, work at night. When I come back the guard post is always closed, and the lot itself is really dark." 
Eric Bloom, a resident of Alum­ni, said, "I feel like a subhuman having to go up to D-1." 

t:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
To Help Us Serve Notre Dame Community I 
1'. Operation Brainstorm * Mardi Gras iC Oass Officer Elections ¥-Co J • t Se • 
mp 8In rviCe )If-Student Body EJections ~ lnfonnati"on Hotline 
"1"' 
~ 

~ I 
Check us out at Activities Nite ,Tues. nite at 7:00~ 1 
1 

t***********~-·-·~-..-..-.-.-.-~~1f~1{WWWWW~j~:~~-'X****-~
"l' . ~\-..1--·-· ~ 
~ "'( 0~ 1\\ • 
~ '{oute \ ~ · \\'\'"~ ~ '{ o\.\ ~--0 ~ 
"'P' __ 
~ ~ "'P' ~ .-~ 
~ .­


o· .­

~ c .­
~ .­"'P' 
~ 
"'P' 

~~~c.
~ \ ~ 
~ 

~TONIGHT at GOOS
""' 


~ N t 0 . 
QUICK-SERVICE ic 0 ne,
REASONABLE PRICES located In Badin basement ~ 


Not Twot 
open M-F 8-S Saturday 8-2 "'P' . 
t 
"'P' 
~ ~ 
~ 
"'P' 
~ ~ 
"'P'
iC 
~ 
"'P' 
~ 
"'P'


E' ~ ~ 
; 
"'P'. 
~ 
~ 
"'P' 

~· Goose's Nest is Starting a Tradition of Our Own· ~ 
~ ~ 
~ promotfonal items will be gfven away . 9'til midnite ~ ~ watch for more speefals for a happy hour iC ~ · call 233-1115 or 283-7781 . ~ 
~~===~~ But THREE eight ounce cans of Bud for .a dollar! ~ 

'±:::::=~2:::-::::=:-::.:::::.49~~-7=:-_::::=:::=:::j:j~********~******************************J 

For the Uninvolved••. 
•.•Get Involved! 
If you're tired of sltnng around your basketball _game? What happens to room, tired of looking at your room-the saeammg, yelling fans wno fill the mates, tired of studying for lack of stadium o~ football Saturdays? ·Too anything better to do, Activities Night often you Will find them sleeping in the tonight In Stepan Center has a library, or at the bars, furfllllng the proposition for you: Get involved. typical student roles and Ignoring their · 
Activities Night gathers representa-chance to 51et involved. tives from most camoys oraanizations C~llege IS not just for studying. It is and puts them together forvou to' a t1me to ~ugment . your teXtbook meet them. From 7 p.m. until ~owledae w1th practical experience; midnight, they will be available to t1me to meet other people and learn ~nswer your questions and provide from them. College IS the time to learn mtormat1on about who they are and through involvement , · what do. More importantly, they will So let yourself be propositioned by tr,: Jo persuade you to join them. the ~d1a, Student 'Union, service 
Notre Dame, supposed.ly has the or~an!zations, geografhic clubs and · greatest student body in the world . at {ltlc clubs. Get ou of your rooms, . But where does Digger Phelps' sixth r,e aw~y from the books and get 
man disappear to wnen there isn't a .;~~}~~! At Activi~ie~ Night you
?<WA0#/A<b0ii7Mh'ffit&WM/I.#WW40W'MamwffiW&MW~4h%W& en have to wa1t m line.
-~mgva4Z/kk/W//MffdbW"rffi'Jf~.!#f4iffdWM4fWJW#& varsity boat for Roohan, the Student Body Vice 

President at Notre Dame. As a
.-----------------­
freshman in St. Ed's, Mike got
/3{)()/t; JlJST GOT 
lA/HATAMI THE fXXJTrJRS

IQHAT 15 SIR, JOE 
involved in interha!l athletics
SHOI/i.OI
IQHAT IAJIP&!J OUTONA 
51/PPOSCD 7lJ fXJ CAU6HT IN 
()JJ/T£

IT. RILEY? THE 7RAINER. 
joi~ed the Rugby Club, tutored
80/L. 5<J';1E
/l8()(JT fT? 'T'IWE 'TRAFFIC. JOE
A80f/T? 8/..INOSI~ 8/.0CK. 
R/6HT.

tuAN75 7D SEE 
WATeR OR. 

*The Observer 
ing footballs. 
con~ern~ the abuse of the lottery by 

hours, but the mere fact that anyDespite this alcohol abuse by 
a mmonty of the students. They

person is hungry in the face of our number of weekends this semester.
ad~lts at football gall;les, the only 

cracked the lotiery system! · Ob_iectivesaction that the University plans on overabundance , is tragic. The procedure consists of taking a Those ~ersons .interested in any taking is to ask these people to An o~ten-heard refrain against further mformatton should write to
number and having that number announcedthe fastmg program is that stu­
le~ve the stadium. Obviously, this c~lled, ~ith the first numbers P.O. Box 206, 'Notre Dame IN 
dents that sign up do not attend the 46556. ~ •
w1ll not be done, as it would entail p1c~ed bemg the people getting the Dear Editor: 
dining hall but eat elsewhere. It is
asking thousands of people to chot~e seats; and the end numbers The Gay Students of Notre Name wltheld by request 
important to realize that the
leave. H would also involve the risk gettmg the less desirable seats. D~me, now in its seventh year of 
emphasis of the program is not a
of offending rich alumni during The only problem was that many of ex~ste~ce, announced Wednesday 
another one of Fr. Hesburgh's the stu~ents I saw had as many as obJe.ctlves for the upcoming year,
financial one. It is, however an opportunity to participate in' the Observer
great fun~-raising campaigns. f?ur, SIX, or even eight lottery Discussed first at the meeting 
H~wever, smce student opinion is smallest of ways in a situation that tickets. They repeatedly re-was the changing of the group's ummportant here, there is no need co.nfronts millions of people every entered the line in order. to get the name from the Gay Community of Policy 
to worry about offending them. mmute of every day. extra tickets. ND to the Gay Students of ND. The The Observer encourages com­MarlaGarvy
If the University truly wishes to One need not be a math major to change was made to emphasis a ments from Its readers; howevercurb student drinking, they have John Dunbar figure out that students with shift towards a more student we ask that this policy be followed: Helen Gallagher 
chosen the wrong way to do it. I f several lottery tickets had a better oriented group. 
All letters and columns submittedanything, their measures will be chance of getting one of their One of the major responsibilities for publication must be typed. Tbecounterproductive. Many students numbers called and therefore of the organization will be to name, address and phone numberwill drink just to defy the rules. One getti~g better seats for the concert. educated both the students and of the author must be Included.

Other students will decide that if . Th1~ was a very frustrating administration about the different Names wUl not be withheld unless
complaintthey are going to risk a fine by sttuahon for me, and others like me aspects of gay life today. An sufftclent reason Is presented fordrinking, they will make the risk who had enough integrity to take eq.ually important goal of the group doing so.
worthwhile by getting smashed. Dear Edltor1 only one lottery ticket. will be to provide a relaxed letters may be mailed to TbeI am tired of living with In ioco I would suggest that whoever set environment in which those who
Last Sunday night, I took part in Observer, P.O. Boll: Q, Notre
pareatU, where the people in the up t~e lottery design a system that are gay can socialize with one
the lottery at LaFortune for tickets Dame, Indiana, 46556; or left at the
Dome determine what is best for provtdes ONE LOTI'ERY TICKET another in an atmosphere free of
to the Yes concert. I think that the Observer office, LaFortune Student 
me. I also dislike the double PER PERSON, and therefore pre-condemnation and disapproval. 
lottery is a very sensible idea and Center, dlll'lna buslnes1 houn.
standard of enforcing University vents such gross abuse of the GSND also plans to continue
the organizers of the lottery should 
rules when students are involved, .· system. . •..•,operatio.n of its Gay Hotlif!e ~ach
be praised for their efforts .•·:·. · Name Withheld Friday and Saturday evening for abut not when non-students are 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_;ohn caleutt 
To~ight at Stepan Center, repre­Rowing Club. When Rob was a senatl.ves. from nearly all student freshman, he wanted to. find a sport 
orgamzattons on campus will be th.at would ~eep him in shape and pre~ent, seeking new members for still leave h1m planty of time to do thetr club or sport or group. 1 well in his studies. He decided to 
thought that writing this column go out for the Rowing Club. Andwould be the most convenient way look where he is now. 
to t~ll students (and freshmen·, in Next, I'd like to mention Jean ~articular) what I think of activi­Powley, the St. Mary's Editor of ttes. 
The Observer. When she was a 

I'd like to talk about a few people ~reshma~, .Jean decided to getwhom I think are outstanding mvolved m JOurnalism; she became mem~ers of this Notre Dame-St. 
a staff reporter for the paper. And Mary, s Community. First of all, look where she is now. 

ther~ s Rob W ettach who sits in the Also, let's talk about Mike the Notre Dame 
~ 
::> 
(J) (/) 
w 
z 
0 
0 
0 


~P.O.BOXQ~ 
involved. For a school that con­Students stantly preaches about values and morality, this University seems toimmature? be sadly lacking in both departments. 
Dear Editor: Pat Toomey, Jr. By cracking down on student drinking on football weekends the University has shown-again ~hat they actually think of the students. Evidently, we are not mature 
meal enou~h ~o violate University rules hy drmkmg on the Green Field and 
Dear Editor: 
in the stadium. Only alumni are 
Today Notre Dame students will
mature enough to do so. 

once again be asked to give up their 
I would agree with Dean Roemer 

Wednesday night meal. For those
th~t alcohol abuse is a problem on 

who have never participated in the
th1s campus, just as it is a problem 

fasting program or for those who
nationwide. I would also agree that 

do not understand its purpose, the
this problem is especially acute on 

Wednesday nght fast is designed
football weekends. However, I feel 

both to increase student's aware­
that most of the drinking on this 

ness of world hunger and to
campus on football weekends is 

provide them with an opportunity
done by campus visitors, not by 

to respond to an overwhelming
students. 

problem.
Last season, as a ·football mana­
The crippling mental and physi­
ger, I had to climb into the stands 

cal effects of hunger are an
chasing footballs on several occa­

everyday fact for over two-thirtls of 
sions. When I did, drunken specta­

the world's .population. Not only
tors usually did their best to hinder 

doe.s sta~atton plague developing
my efforts. Although it never 

na!tons, 1t. also preys upon our
happened to me, I have heard of 

ne1ghbors m South Bend, Chicago
managers being physically attack­

and throughout America. Statistics
ed by intoxicated fans while chas­

on hunger can be bandied about for 
~h1ldren, and was elected the hall's treasurer for his sophomore year. And look where he is now. 
Finally there's Gail Darragh. Her story is a little different. Gail didn_'t get involved in any extra­curricular activities during her freshman year. She also admitted that she tried to transfer three times during that same year. I don't want to create any cause-and­effect relationship between not getting involved and wanting to transfer; but Gail also told me that when she finally decided to do s.omething about things she didn't hke at St. Mary's,going to college became much more enjoyable for her. Now she's president of the Saint Mary's student body. 
Each of these people ·who are 

an indep.endent newspaper serving the P.O. Box Q 
campus leaders had to start some­

notre dame and saint mary's community Notre Dame, ln. 
"':here. But I'm not really addres­smg .my comments to the people who JUSt want to get to the head of their organizations as a way to add 

The Observer is published b) students of the University of Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect 
another lin.e to their resumes.

the poliCies of the adminiStration of either institution The news 
Rather, I believe that all of the

IS reported as accurately and objectively as possible Editorials 
people I have mentioned would

represent the opin 10n of a majority of the Editorial Board. 
admit they've "learned" alot

Commentanes and .letters are the views of their authors. 
Column space IS available to all members of the community, and 
(about themselves and other 
people) from being involved. In

the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through 
fact, in my opinion, this "extra­curricular" learning is more impor­
1etters, I'> encouraged EDITORIAL BOARD 

tant than anything you might learn 
from a textbook.

Tony Pace Editor-1n-Ch1ef 
I'll be the first to admit that

Steve Odland Managing Editor 
grades are important, and that

John Calcutt Executive Editor 
academic affairs should never be

Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 
Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor· 
~eglected. However. pursuing 

Phil Cackley Copy Ed1tor 
mterests outside of the classroom 
should be eq4ally important. 

Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
s.o go over to Stepan Center

Ann Gales News Editor 
tomght, and see what this Univer­

Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor 
sity really has to offer: alot of great 
people pursuing one hundred and

Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
on~ .i~teresting, even rewarding,

Bryan Cruley Featurw, Editor 
actlvtttes. I'm sure you can make a contribution somewhere--and 

Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production Manager 
maybe even have a good time in the 

John Tucker Business Manager 
process. 

Bob Rudy Advertising Manager 
By the way, if you're a Saint Mary's student who missed activi­ties night just call the organization 

Vol. XIII, No. 10 M on day, S e ptom b8 r 11, 1g7 8 
representative or stop by their office. They'll be glad to help. 
The one complaint that I have 

M on day, ,$, e pta m bar 11 , 19 7 8 the observer 




Activities Night 
Tonight at Stepan Center 
Editor's Note: At 7 p.m. tonight, Stepan Center will become a convention of student organizations where representatives from each particular group will be present to answer your questions and recruit new members. Presented in this "convention guide" are descriptions provided by the groups (sorry, we didn't receive a description from everybody) and a map of Stepan Center showing where everyone will be. So pull out this middle section if you'd like and use it as your guide to involvement at Notre Dame. (The order in which the descriptions have been presented was determined randomly.) 
Thanks to Student Union for collecting the blurbs and defraying 
the costs. 
PrE~-law society 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law Society 
is an active campus organization 
that affords members the opportu­
nity to become better acquainted 
with legal professions. Guest 
speakers, newsletters and various 
activities allow students to examine 
career goals while also aiding the 
individual in the selection of appro­
priate law schools or areas of study. 
Membership is open to all Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Members may sign up at the first 
onganizational meeting at activities 
night or anytime during the school 
year. 
Pi Sigma Alpha 
Pi Sigma Alpha (PSA) is a 
natio1nal political science honor 
society. The Notre Dame chapter is 
a small organization devoted to 
investigating issues and sponsor­
ing activities that are of interest to 
all government majors. 
PSA offers many benefits to its 
members: formal and academic 
activities, ranging from' a 'careers 
night' to lectures, and morein­
formal social aetivities, including 
get-!ogethers atprofessors' homes, 
pizia and beer dinners at local 
restaurants and a hot dog stand 
during fbotball weekends. 
Participation in the national or­gani:l:ation requires the enforce­ment of scholastic membership criteria and collection of an initia­tion fe,e. 
!Engineering magazine 
Tbe Tech Review is the magazine serving engineering students at Notre Dame. Students from all colleges are invited to assist in its publication. The magazinecon­tains both tech and non-tech arti­cles concerning engineering de­vices at Notre Dame and in industry. 
c:eltic society 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Cel­tic Society is an organization whose members are interested in the music, culture, and people of Ireland. Through films, speakers. and Irish performers at our meet­ings and parties we develop this interest and have a good tim~ One does not have to be Irish to join. 
Minnesota club 
The Minnesota Club of Notre 
Dame is comprised of all the Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students 
from Minnesota. The club provides 
social and service functions. Social 
functions throughout the year in­
:lude tailgaters at home football 
games. parties. <:kating parties, 
barbecues, and lailgaters during 
the summer at the M~nnesota Kicks 
soccer game~. 
They alSo prnvic1• · d•rect.;ry to all 
club member~ or d club members Iand vf those ·. ·!· cars. This ,facilitates memk in finding rides 
lhorrc for break:, fhe ciub pro­, vidcs a baggage t . .,,:k seni<.;e in the fall and spring 'ransporl mem­ber•;' gear back a> , fonh to !>chool. 
.krsey. Meetings are held once a 
less able to· help themselves--the 

There-is no mer;· ··-;hip kc mon-th. 
unborn. 

~ .,...
....,--........~....~-----IIIIIJi-------­
Sr. Morita's 
day school 
Sisters Matita and Evodine have begun a humanitarian crusade to correct the problems of the under­privileged child by helping them "catch-up" to their peers with respect to education. The children have failed in the public school system and need some type of extra help. 
An important part of this process is a personal contact with someone who will offer special help, guid­ance, and most of all, support. Volunteers will be asked to help and test the child in reading, math, and vocabulary skills. VariouscJaJ>Ji trips will be planned to places of interest such as an airport or museum. 
There will also be a chance to become better acquainted with all the children at special events' such as Christmas parties or participat­ing in buying, groceries at the "make-believe" store. 
Hall President's Council 
The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) is, as described in the HPC constitution, " ... an open, service­oriented organizaPion, independent of all other Student Government organizations, with the purpose of promoting the well-being of the Notre Dame campus community and working for the betterment of hall life." 
''In keeping with our purpose we consider it our duty to function as: 
1) a center through which any organization or 'individual wishing to address the Notre Dame campus community may channel informa­tion; 2) a coordinator of hall social, academic, athletic or community service activites; and 3) a spokes­man for all students with reference to university administrative poli­cies and regulations." 
''In recognizing ourselves as the most representative body on cam­pus, we feel it is our responsibility to make known our concerted views on matters concerning hall life and to initiate appropriate action in accordance with these views." 
The council, consisting of the presidents of all Notre Dame residence halls, meets once a week throughout the school year. 
Young Democrats 
The ND-SMC Young Democrats were organized to pursue the goals of the Democratic party, to assist in campaigns for Democratic candi­dates, to bring politically oriented speakers into the Notre Dame community and to offer members of the. Notre Dame community the opportunity to take part in the political process. 
In the past they have campaigned for candidates running f-Qr local and state offices as. well as those running for national office. Last Y<'ar· s activities were highlighted by a speech by Bill-Bradley, former New York Knick's star and candi­date forthe U.S. Senate from New 
Big Brothers, Big Sisters 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters is a nationwide program designed to establish meaningful one on one relationships between responsible voluntec:~ and underprivileged children. It involves a commitment by a volunteer of time and friend­ship with children, who, for various reasons, are not receiving the usual attention and guidance within their own family situation. 
BB/BS volunteers range .m ag\: from 18 and beyond while kids go from 6 to 16. A volunteer's commitment involves spending some time with their match at least once a week for at least a year's time. In most cases, the relation­ship which develops is enjoyable and rewarding for all parties con­cerned and generally lasts well beyond the one year limit. 
The BB/BS of Notre Dame and St. Mary's is the campus group which coordinates the BB/BS program on both campuses. The group pro­vides all expense paid activities, transportation, and information to assist the volunteers in the pro­gram. 
Yearbook 
The Dome, the university year­book, is run entirely by the students with funding provided through tuition. They start work in the fall and work to about March 
15. The only prerequisite is interest.. Persons may choose to work with sports, student nfe, seniors. events or organizations, putting in as much time as they desire. The type of work usually involves writing copy, designing layouts and taking photos. The Dome office is located on the third floor of LaFortune and the pho'ne is 7524. 
Ski team 
The Notre Dame Ski Team is a club sport open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. They race primarily in Northern Michi­gan against teams from Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio in the Midwest Collegiate Ski Association (MCSA), of which we are the 1978 defending champions. 
The bulk of the season begins with time trials at a local ski area (near Kalamazoo) the first Wednesday night of the second semester. The regular season-begins the following weekend with the first race, and continues with weekend races through February. 
Right to Ute 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life is interested in the protection of the lives of the unborn. This student group works in four areas: education, politics, publicity, and liturgics. The group attempts to educate the ND-SMC community about abor­tion by stimulating their interest in abortion and its legal status. Right to Life keeps abreast of changes in the political scene regarding abor­tion and makes its views known to political leaders. 
By publicizing Right to Life activi­ties here as well as across the nation, Right to Life hopes to gain support and assistance in its efforts to restore the unborn childs right to live. Right to Life sponsors special liturgical services offered for the restoration of the sanctity of life. 
This year efforts will continue in opposition to the abortion clinic opened last spring in South Bend. Attempts will be made through legal channels as well as picketing. ND-SMC Right to Life welcomes members concerned about those 

AFROTC 

While the AFROTC is observed as a formal military organization, much of the interaction that occurs is on an informal basis. Still stressing, however, the military training ofthe individual, the corps prepares the cadet for a productive life in the US Air Force. The corps holds its own athletic competition, social dinners and balls. They also work in close cooperation with the Arnold Air Society and Angel Flight. 
Head Start 
Head Start is a volunteer program that offers a "head start" to children 3-6 years old who come from low-income families in the South ·Bend area. Volunteers help the children in art, reading, and other activities which either the teacher of the vol,unteer can plan. 
Ombudsman 
Ombudsman--a responsible or­ganization that gets the job done. Some of the things that were done last year include: 
--Compiling and publishing a university resource manual (a "Who's Who" of Notre Dame). --Operating an information hotline open 74 hours each week. 
--Providing a complaint service receptive to the wants and needs of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­munity. 
--Staffing the bank at Mardi Gras. --Overseeing student body and class officer elections. 
--Conducting "Operation Brain­storm" (an opportunity for stu­dents to contribute ideas for the betterment of the Notre Dame community). 
Ombudsman was quite busy last year, and this year, with an added emphasis on the complaint service, it will be busier than ever. Ombudsman is a responsible, hard­working organization that needs responsible, hardworking people. 
Judo club 
"The Notre Dame Judo Club is moving ahead this year and expan­ding their course offerings to better meet the needs and wants of the Notre Dame community," Head Coach Curt Hench stated. Three levels ofinstruction will be offered. 
The first level of instruction will consist of conditioning and self­defense techniques alone. 
The second level, the core of the Judo Club's program, will be an introduction to all aspects of judo. The student will be introduced to judo th~ows and mat techniques; some of the background and philo­sophy of judo; and will be involved in some Judo Club activities, including: hosting several judo tournaments and operating a con­cession stand at one of the home football games. 
The third level is for the avid judo competitor. Emphasis will be on conditioning and tournament tech­niques. Beginners are welcome. 
Contact Curt Hench at 8721 after 6:30p.m. for more information. 
Volleyball_ club 
Men's Volleyball Club is a new organization which will allow for a regular schedule of play with clubs in the South Bend area. Tourna­ments are held on weekends within driving distance. There are team entrance fees to participate in the area tournaments. 
In addition, court time will be scheduled for practice in the Rock and the Angela Facility. The organization is an effort to allow men at Notre Dame the first chance to play organized volleybalti and will hopefullv develop into a grow­ing <;port at NO through the near future 
Business association 

The International Association of Business and Economics Students (AIESEL) is a dynamic organization which operates an international exchange of internships in 56 ·countries worldwide. Through this exchange of students who partici­pate in internships at the manage­ment level in a foreign country, AIESEC seeks to aid in the social and economic development of the world, and to promote international understanding and cooperation. 
To the student, AIESEC is a challenge to develop his or her leadership and management skills, both through participation in an internship overseas, and in the operation of the local committee here on campus. 
Through AIESEC the student can participate in the business world, develop high level contacts, travel to regional and national AIESEC conferences, and meet top students from campuses across the country. AIESEC wants students who are interested in their careers, who will take the initiative and challenge themselves. 
Logan Council 
The Council for the Retarded (Logan) is now· celebrating its tenth year working with the mentally handicapped children and adults of the South Bend community. Volun­teers help the kids enjoy and develop skills in activities such as swimming, arts and crafts, basjtet­ball, music and softball. The core of the Council lies in the Saturday recreation period, which runs from 9 to 11:30 a.m., beginning Sept. 16. 
Many opportunities for volunteer­ing are also available during the week. 
Engineer society 
The Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil Engin­eers provides opportunities for interaction with professors, fellow students, and professional engin­eers brought in from all over the world and . makes ASCE member­ship a must for the serious prospec­tive engineer. Weekly activities range from career planning nights to canoe races--plus a healthy dab of partying. 
Marketing club 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club is an organization designed to bring together interested faculty, students, and business persons in an informal atmosphere. 
Among the club's major activities are the Paul. D. Gilbert Lecture Series; several smokers each se­mester; one field trip per semester; and participation in the Michiana Area Marketing Day. 
Dues are $5.00 per year and entitle members--who need not be marketing majors--to all the bene­fits and privil~ges of the club. 
Interested students should sign up at Activities Night or at the club's picnic September 16, or contact one of the officers: President Rick LaBelle, Vice-Presi­dent Brian Ward, Treasurer Mary 
L. Shukis, and Secretary ·Ron Tucker. 
Rowing club 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club is a co-ed sporting activity which is administered entirely by students. Otherwise known as the Notre Dame Crew, the club fields men's and women's varsity, junior var­sity, and novice crews. The novice crews consist of those persons who have never rowed before. 
The crew competes intercoll­egiately and travels to major re­gattas in Madison, Boston, and Philadelphia. 
•••IIJ!IIJIII!I'-'I'il!l!!lll,l!~~-· e':Tt;~ 1 
~->'.c.ll.t>liHii'/11 o:,~·. W (l(j 7t~•:l 


I 
l

the observer Monday, S11t1mber 11, 1978 







Activities night Radio aub 
Historical 

Black Cultural The Observer Student Union 
The Notre Dame Amateur Radio The Observer is an independent 
Student Union is the service and Communications Club is an organi­
Society 

Arts Center student newspapaer pqblished 
social provider on campus, operat­zation of students interested in 
The Notre Dame Historical So­ing independently of student gov­The Black Cultural Arts Center Monday through Friday by the 

amateur "Ham" radio communica­ciety is a group of students and (BCAC) is the black student organ­students of Notre Dame and Saint ernment. 

tions and/or electronics. The club ization on campus devoted to Mary's. All editorial, management, 

Activities and services sponsored owns and operates an amateur 
faculty who are interested in his­by the Union include a plant sale, radio station for the use of its assisting all minority students deal reporter and staff positions aretory. The purpose of the club is to movies, Homecoming, the Sopho­with the changes that occur in the filled by students.

promote a sense of solidaritymembers. 
more Literary Festival, lectures,transition to college life. In addition There are openings for writers in between the students and theLicensing classes and transmitting concerts, Welcome Week, parties,to constant surveillance of minority the news, features and sportsfaculty.

equipment are available to inter­dance and drama events, thestatus on all levels and the question departments; photographers; per­Meetings will consist of informalested students, as well as an Collegiate Jazz Festival, free out­of human rights, the BCAC strives sons interested in lay-out andtalks and discussion, films and­opportunity to make friends with door concerts, the Midwest Bluesto aid the academic, communal and design; typists; and ad salesmen. 

social functions.
some of the other radio and 

Festival and the Student Players. electronics nuts on campus. 
personal growth of its members. The staff operates out of the 
The Center, located on the third floor of LaFortune. No experi­
The various commissions open to Among some of the club's activities 
new members include the social,second floor of LaFortune Student ence is necessary for any area.

Chemical 
are radio communication, contes­

service, cultural arts, and academic ting, radio and electronics work 
Center is open to all students. It is 
commissions.
intended to provide students with a
engineers club
and licensing classes. 

convenient area for study, an International The Student Chapter of theAnyone interested in radio or 
informal meeting place for cultural 
WomenLeadership

American Institute of Chemicalelectronics may join, and the club 
~exchange and a gathering place for 
offers a program which orients Engineers (AIChE) is an organiza­
relaxation and good company. 
Engineers'
itself to all levels of interest, tion formed to promote the profes­
Institute 
including the beginner. 
sional development of Notre 

The International Student Leader­
Neighborhood
Dame's chemical engineering ma­
Society

ship Institute is desie:ned to de­jors. Active participation in AIChE velop an understanding of basic The Society of Women Engineers 
College 
will complement the student's aca­
Study Help 

leadership and communication (SWE) is an organization offeringdemic training for a professional skills through carefully structured exposure to the opportunities and
The Neighborhood Study Help
Republicans 
career in chemical engineering by experiences. 

problems todays woman encoun­providing opportunities for contact 
Program (NSHP) is involved with 
ters when entering this traditional­The small group process is used to 

tutoring the school children of
The Notre Dame College Republi­with industry and fellow AIChE ly male profession.

experience self-knowledge,
South Bend, primarily those in the 
cans are a group of students who members. 
SWE sponsors a variety ofgrowth, awareness and perception

elementary grades. NHSP is the
identify with the Republican Party activities, including brunches, wine AIChE activities include presenta­of self, others, and situations,

largest volunteer service organiza­
and seck constructive involvement and cheese parties, speakers, andtions by speakers from industry, self-confidence, acceptance, posi­

tion on campus, with about 300
in the political process. Through an annual banquet, in addition tofield trips to view the operations of tive thinking, and the power of

Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­
their activities they strive to stimu­regular meetings, which enablesupport. College students areindustrial plants and laboratories 

dents working as tutors in 17
late interest and encourage partici­members to meet with studentstrained to serve as facilitators of

schools and neighborhood centers
and also opportunities to interactpation in the numerous campaign and professors of all the engineer­small groups consisting mainly of

throughout the South Bend area.
with faculty and fellow classmatesevents at all levels of government. 
ing fields. 

high school students. ,
There are a variety of times
on an informal, social level.
They also invite speakers, publish a 

The Notre Dame chapter, which monthly newsletter and hold issue 
available for anyone interstedl in 
acquired its national charter only a
being a tutor: from a single class
debates and training seminars in 

AVIDD ' \ I 
year ago, boasts a growing mem­
period twice a week to two hours in
CILA 
bership which includes some Saintgrassroots organization. They 
the late afternoon or early evening 

AVIDD is a sincere effort to offe~ Mary's students and also somebalance their year round schedule The Community for the Interna­
once a week. All transportation is 

helpful assistance to the Northern male Notre Dame students. 
with community service projects tional Lay Apostolate (CILA) offers 
provided by the program. No 

Indiana State Hospital staff in their and social gatherings. 
its members a combination of previous tutoring experience is 

theraputic duties with the develop­South Bend community service 
necessary. 

mentally handicapped children who 
Marathon
work, education in justice and are patients there. The group 

members volunteer at hours thatThird World concerns, and a
LaCrosse Oub 
Society
Chess Oub 
are convenient to them.
challenge for continual ChristianThe Notre Dame LaCrosse Oub The purpose of the Notre Damegrowth. 1 
The purpose of the Notre Dame 

The volunteers act as assistants to is the LaCrosse team that repre­Marathon Society is to promote
Chess Club is to develop and
Summer projects provide an op­the therapists and are involvedsents the University in Midwest recreational running among stu­

encourage chess activity among the
portunity for in-depth experience in either in physical contact withLaCrosse competition. The team is dents, faculty, and staff at the

members of the Notre Dame com­
areas such as Appalachia, New patients or may offer verbal in­a member ofthe Midwest LaCrosse University. /

munity. The club meets beginning
Orleans, Tucson, and Saltillo, struction depending on the prp­Club Association and its schedule The group will meet at the steps of

at I p.m. in the cardroom adjoining 
Mexico. With approximately 75 gram. Programs include: physicalincludes teams from Michigan, the Admtnistration Building on

the Rathskellar in LaFortune Stu­

therapy, speech therapy, and re­student and faculty members,Michigan State, Purdue, Chigago, Wednesdays at approximately 4:30 dent Center. 
creation therapy.
CILA masses, retreats, social
Bowling Green and Ohio State. 
p.m. Participants may run at
Certain club members will offer
events, and newsletters unify theThe team plays both club and whatever distance and pace they
instruction and advice regarding
organization creating an atmo­varsity teams. 
wish. Organized races to be held at
chess strategy and tactics. Other 

Chapel Choir 1 ! 
sphere of mutual challenge andThe club has an A and B team, SMC are presently under consider­
activities will include a club tour­
friendship. 

Notre Dame Chapel Choir is aeach having their own schedules of 
ation. 14 and 7 games. While many of the 
nament, speed chess, chess book 

60-voice mixed ensemble which players have had experience play­
reviews, and possibly a trip to the 

assists at all major campus litur­
Intercollegiate Chess Champion­
Women's track, Gymnastics
ship. 

gies. The major responsibilities of majority of the team members 
ing LaCrosse in high school, the the choir are singing at the Sunday

cross country 
Oub

10:30 a.m. Mass and 7:15 p.m.
learned to play at Notre Dame. 
RugbyOub 
The purpose of the Gymnastics Club is to giveinterested male and The Notre Dame Women's Track/ vespers service in Sacred HeartAs a club, the team is always Cross Country Team is a club sport Notre Dame Rugby was estab­church. Rehearsals are at 5 p.m.

looking for new members and hosts female students an opportunity toand its members compete in inter­lished in the fall of 1961. aub Tuesday and Wednesday, 6:30a clinic each fall to instruct inter· develop their gymnastics skills.

collegiate cross country in the fall president Mike Roohan states that 

p.m. Thursday and 10 a.m.ested students on the basics of the 
Training starts at the beginning ofand track in the spring. All what began "as a bunch of Sunday.
game. 
the year. As a new, young team,undergraduate women are wel­inexperienced-rookies has evolved we competed for the first time lastcome to join. Most meets are on into a group of precision rugby year. We have set up a meet

Student Kiwanis
weekends and they are almost players who face only the toughest 
Karate Oub 
scheduled for next season. Allexclusively "away" at colleges and teams and participate in the most Circle K is a community service students who enjoy the sport ofThe N.D. Karate Club is a universities throughout Indiana, competitive tournaments.''

student run organization with the organization that is directly affili­gymnastics are invited to join.

Michigan, and Ohio. For informa­purpose of teaching practical self­

ated with Kiwanis International. defense techniques along with 
This year the club will face teams
tion, contact Helen Weber or Kathy 

The Notre Dame club is a growingmartial arts training, for beginners 
in the Midwest Rugby Union, and
McCann. 
Alpha Phi

club of individuals who whole­to advanced students. The club has 
is also planning a spring trip to 

heartedly believe in constructive
Ireland. No experience is necessary 
a sixth degree black-belt master fun. Last year's activities ranged 

Omega
to become a member. Practices are
instrudor as well as several stu­
Management 

from swimathons to conventions
held at 4:15 every Tuesday, Wed­
Alpha Phi Omega is a servicedent black-belt instructors. 

and taking underprivileged kids to
nesday and Thursday behind Ste­
fraternity. On the Notre DameThe major emphasis of the the dunes to visiting other colleges club pan Center. 

campus, it functions as a clubtraining program is given to those around the state to discuss today'sThe Notre Dame Management composed of men and women.

who have had little or no self­problems.
Club serves two functions. Pri­Activities include volunteer workdefense training, however for the 
aeveland aub 

on the ND campus and in the South intercollegiate fighting team avail­
more advanced student there is an marily, the club is a vehicle by 

Business Bend area, fund drives for various able. Interested students should 
which business majors meet and The first sign-up for all those 

charities, the campus blood drive visit the club's booth tonight at 
interact with the business faculty students interested in attending 

Students' during the year and the Ugly Man Activities Night. 
outside of the classroom. This is the Notre Dame-Navy football Contest in the Spring.
accomplished by keggers, smokers, game in Cleveland on November 4 
will be held at the aeveland Club
and picnics. Secondly, the club Freshmen· men and women are
League
booth during Activities Night in
offers students the chance to able to assume an active role from
Angel Flight 
Stepan Center this evening. 

The Notre Dame league of busi­interact with prominent business­
the beginni~g.

ness students is an organization
If students are unable to attend
Angel Flight is a campus­men by way of field trips and guest 
Activities Night there will be a 

that attempts to prepare today'scommunity service organization, speakers. 
black students for their future
second sign-up on September 18. 
Arnold
sponsored by the Air Force ROTC, The club is open to all business Also, students may call Chris 1798, entrance to the world of businessbut not exclusively composed of majors and those interested in Cindy 1363, Dave 1553 or Roberta and to keep them informed on itscadets. Angel Flight is co-ed and 

Air Society
management. 4-4489 to make ticket reservations. 
current developments.
works with the Corvilla Home for Each year, forums, field trips, and The Arnold Air Society is anthe Retarded and for various South various programs are presented in extracurricular activity within AirBend Community organizations, 

International Chi Eosilon 

order for black students in the Force ROTC. It is a social/servicesuch as: Drive for Muscular 
Chi Epsilon is a national honor 

School of Business Administration organization whcse activitiesDystrophy, American Cancer So­students~ club society for Civil Engineering stu­to meet and become acquainted include projects for ;ne community ciety, American Heart Fund and 
dents. The Notre Dame Chapter of 

with people from various areas of of South Bend, the :· niversity, andothers. Social activities are also The International Student Organi­
Chi Epsilon is maintained primarily 

the business world. This allows the ROTC Detachn•·~nt. This year'sincluded in the Angel Flight pro­zation is composed of approxi­to recognize the achievements of them to acquire vital knowledge major activity will he the sponsor­gram, ranging from a spaghetti mately 400 students from over 68 outstanding Civil Engineering stu­
and information about what's hap­ing of the Annual Bi-Area Conclave dinner to pre-game smokers to 
different countries. They host dents, but the ~ociety also provides 

pening with respect to their partic­in February for schools from the Bi-Area and National Conclaves. 
cultural and social activities, and various services to the C.E. depart­

ular major, whether it be Accoun­midwest and eastern states. The Anyone interested may contact 
invite any Notre Dame or Saint ment and the College of Engineer­

ting, Finance, Management, or organization is open to all interest­Mary Melly, 234 Lewis. 
Marketing. ed Air Force ROT( Cadets.
Mary's student to join. ing. 

-----~---------------------------.--­
M ondly, Slptem ber 11, 1978 _ the observer 
7 



jActivities Night 
86 88 89 87 

84 85 82 83 80 81 78 79 

19 21 22 20 
~ 
-
-
8. 
a. 
(11
j ""'-~ 
(..,)
c I 
3 
'() i 

-Cil
< 
13 15 17 18 16 14 

11 12 9 10 7 8 5 6 
1. 
Information 

2. 
Student Union 

3. 
Student Union 



4 3 2
4. Student Govt. S.Aorida Club 
6. 
Rowing club 

7. 
Rugby Club 

8. 
Gymnastics 


I 
9. Mens Volleyball 
I

10. Wrestling Stats 
. 1 

11. 
Head Start 

12. 
Ski Team 1 

13. 
Karate Club 

14. 
Marathon Society 

15. 
Judo Club 

16. 
Women's Athletics 

17. 
Cleveland Club 

18. 
Science Quarterly 




Enter Here

19. 
Tech Review 53. Historical Society 

20. 
Scholastic 54. Campus Crusade for Christ 

21. 
Dome 55. Pre-Law Society 

22. 
Observer 56. Debate Council 

23. 
Knights of Columbus 57. Pep Rally Committee 

24. 
Ombudsman 58. Paddlefish Club 

25. 
Logan Center/Council for the 59. Chess Club Retarded 60. International Students' Organi­

26. 
CILA zation 

27. 
Volunteer Campus Tour Guide 61. Right to Life 

28. 
Alpha Phi Omega 62. Elderly Emergency Relief 

29. 
Sailing Team 63. Student Govt. Recycling 

30. 
Neighborhood Study Help 64. ND-SMC Theatre 

31. 
Hunger Coalition 65. LAPEL 

32. 
Circle K 66. Heathwinn Hospital 

33. 
Big Brother/Big Sister 67. Voluntary Action Center 

34. 
MANASA 68. Girl Scouts 

35. 
Hotline \. 69. St. Joseph County Blood Pres­

36. 
Angel Air Flight sure Clinic 

37. 
Celtic Society 70. American Cancer Society 

38. 
Amnesty International 71. REAL Services 

39. 
Sr. Marita's 72. Navarre School of Chinese 

40. 
Charismatic Renewal Fighting System 

41. 
German Club 73. Renew Inc. 

42. 
Fellowship of Christian 74. Fun&Learn Center Athletes 75. Kidney Foundation 

43. 
Chemical Society 76. Nursing Home Visitation 

44. 
International Student Leader­77. InPIRG ship Institute 78. Urban Plunge 

45. 
Marketing Club 79. Teacher Education Forum 

46. 
Photo Club 80. Convent Volunteers 

47. 
Biology Club 81. Upward BOund 

48. 
Amerasea Alliance 81. Upward Bound 

49. 
Society of Women Engineers 82. Catholic Assn. of Student 






22. 

SO. College Republicans Councils 
51. 
American Society of Mechani­83. Young Democrats calEngineers 84. S.N.E.A. 

52. 
AISEC 85. Saint Mary's College Choirs 


Layout ana design: Debbie Dahrling ~hn Colcutt 
·~ 

--------------------------------------------· ~-.:::.:·><.: ~}: 

i 
•· 

layout by: ~~. . 
gteve ©dPond ~t~~ 
.. . •. ,. it£ I
I " ......,_ ., f Jl:t '""'"':..'\.1\:1'\oo' I.._.,., .... ._ J . --~---------·· 
..___ ....... . • VU1!!. :.,~yr..~•" II oi'lli:, l t· •>J./1, • -----------· ---------­
.--·------~---··--.. ------­
• ---------------------­

SU sponsors program 
A major two-day symposium on the direction of America's space exploration will begin tonight at 7 
p.m. with a NASA film festival in the. Engineering Building. Spon­sored by the Student Unior Aca­demic Commission, the programs are open to the public without charge. 
Astronaut Don L. Lind and UFO expert Clark C. McClelland, former director of the Committee on Aerial Phenomena, will be speakers. Displays in the Memorial Library oncourse will include a 159-gram lunar sample, believed to be 3.3 billion years old, an American flag from the Apollo 15 mission, a NASA diorama, a model of the newly developed space shuttle, and various spave artifacts. 
AI sets 

organization 
for year 

The Notre Dame Chapter of Amn·~sty International (AI), the international human rights organi­zation which was awarded the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize, is now organiz­ing for the 1978-79 school year and is looking for new members. 
Amnesty works on behalf of prisoners of conscience throughout the world as a non-partisan humanitarian organization. AI helps by the letterwriting of its over 100,000 members worldwide. 
Since its formation in 1961 AIL has helped secure the release of more than 13,000 prisoners of conscience. AI has been accorded consultative status with the United Nations, the Organization of American States, the Council of Europe and the Organization of African Unity. 
Since 1977, when it was founded, the ND chapter (USA Group 43), has worked on a number of AI campaigns for the release of prisoners of conscience and the abolition of torture. 
Group 43 has had a number of succe:sses: in May of 1977 Apolonia Buenaventura, for whom this .group was working, was re­leased from a Philippiito prison. More recently, Michael Moyo, a Rhodesian prisoner, was released after intensive letter-writing by the ND group in April of 1978. 
For those interested in finding out more about Amnesty Inter­national and the work of the ND Chapter, the group will be repre­sented at Activities Night this evening, and the first monthly meeting will be held Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Ballroom of Lafortune. 
Seven films, including many award winners will open the symposium. They.are "Friendship 7," a documentary of John Glenn's earth orbit in 1962; "The Time of Apollo," tracing this mission from President Kennedy's promise to the moon landing; "Five Minutes To Live," detailing the advanced emergency care system; and "Uni­verse," expolring the extremes of size and time. The films also include "The Eagle Has Landed," the historic drama of Armstrong's moon landing; "Space Shuttle," a description of the current program and prospects for future progress, and "Who's Out There?" the Orson Welles-narrated film investigating life beyond earth and man's attempts to contact it.
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, Tickets on Sale t 
t 
: 
t t t t t t t t 

Mondly, hpte•lltr 11, 1171 ·the observer 


Summit talks move slowly 
GEtTYSBURG, Pa. [AP]··Israeli 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin 
said yesterday the Mideast summit 
is "going well" but other sources 
were more cautious in their assess­
ments. 
"We need another two or three 
days to crystallize things," Ezer 
Weizman, the Israeli defense mini­
ster, commented as Carter led 
Begin and Egyptian President An­
war Sadat on a tour of the Civil War 
hattlefield here. 
Sources close to the Egyptian delegation said the summit, now in its fifth day, was moving slow.ly and that there was no breakthrough so far. 
Begin made his optimistic com­ment as Carter joked briefly with reporters at a monument to Con­federate soldiers who suffered a decisive setback at Gettysburg in the Civil War. Asked how the talks were going, the prime minister replied: "You can see they are going well." 
He seemed to be referring to the evident rapport between the parti· dpants rather than to the Arab­Israeli dispute itself. 
With the talks in temporary recess the three heads of state, traveling together in Carter's bul­let-proof limousine, drove from Camp David, Md., to visit the battlefield· where Carter's native south took a terrible drubbing. 
The Georgian, showing his guests a monument to the southern troops who were overwhelmed, said they. could have won, "with tanks." 
Carter, wearing a gray sports jacket, showed Begin and Sadat several of the high spots of the 1863 campaign in which Southern forces led by Gen. Robert E. Lee were repulsed with heavy casualties in their second and last effort to invade the North. 
''They could have used President Sadat, Moseh dayan and Ezer Weizman," the president quipped to reporters trailing behind. Dayan, the Israeli foreign minister, and Weizman, the defense minister, 
for Junior Class t MichigaQ State Trip t 

Junior office in basement of Lafortune 
with bus transportation 519.00 

* 
limit one per Junior 

* 
Includes tailgater 

* 
Bring ID's 


and Weizman, the defense mini· stet, are both former generals and heroes of Israeli wars with Arab neighbors. 
The sightseeing, which White House press secretary Jody Powell said was prompted by Prime Minis­ter Begin's interest in the Civil War, extended the weekend slow­down in Mideast summitry. 
The only session of note was held Saturday, between Weizman and President Sadat. The two are reported to have extablished a personal repport and W eizman was often at Sadat's side as they examined the monuments and can­nons on the battlefield. 
Reporters were kept fro enough away from the summit principals to maintain the Carter-imposed se­crecy that has marked the five-day­old conference at the presidential retreat. 
"We're going smartly, don't you think?" Weizman said, sidestep­ping questions from a straining press corps. 
"How are you doing," a reporter persisted. "We are doing," the defense minister responded crypti­cally. 
Sadat wore a camel-colored sport jacket and black turtleneck sweater and Begin a somber gray business suit as Carter led them to historic sites, including the point where President Abraham Lincoln in 1863 delivered the Gettysburg Address. Begin slowly read the speach inscribed at the cemetery where thousands of Union dead were buried. 
The three leaders traveled here together in Carter's bulletproof black limousine as part of a motorcade of some two dozen cars, buses, and station wagons packed with Secret Service agents. 
Park visitors and other Sunday tourists were kept at a safe distance. Robert Prosperi, a park historian, filled in the details for the president. 
Also on the trip were the president's wife Rosalynn, daugh· ter Amy, Mrs. Begin, Dayan, Weizman, Egyptian Ambassador Ashraf Ghorbal and lower level members of the · three summit delegations. 
The skies were overcast and the 
air cool. Begin wore a cardigan 
sweater under his suitcoat. He 
placed a grandfatherly arm on 
Amy's shoulder as Carter and 
Sadat poked around a Confederate 
cannon. 
Register today! 
Voter registration for the November general election will be held at dinner today through Wednesday at both dining halls. Voters may also register tomorrow at lunchtime in the _South Dining Hall. 
Off-campus voters may register later in the week at LaFortune. Times will be announced. 

-----------------------, 
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
South Bend's largest Record & -Tape Selection & Concert Ticket Headquarters 

$1.00 OFF! 
COUPON 


Party Down! 
E\IE~ ~lG'-'Tot:lliE\VEEK.! 
*
~~5 ~.c. ~tS ~ SIOO ~fHze ~No c.o.e-v Spec.a\D;aft 6eer 
Price5 8-\\p.m.~ Gl'ft Clrli"f\c.a\es ~ 3 \Mnn\nJ Co.l?\es 
Tuesday &Ttl.lrsday 
M\~ gM\rQ\e. Mwed~~~25~ 
8-\\ p.m. 
the ABC interview program "Issues and Answers." 
A House vote is likely Monday on . 
.. 

1........OL____..I.uh!.3er......310ubi£-'SIIE.eK..L.rv.ll.-'e-..r_______.:_M_o_n_d•...:.Y...:...•_s-'ep'---ta m ber 11, 191s
..• 
Congress to decide size. of income tax • reduction 
WASHINGTON [AP]--Congress will decid<: this week how big a reduction in income taxes it w:thts to vote this year for individual!t and businesses. 
Lawmakers will require another month to work out details of the tax rPduction. But budget-writers will try to decide Monday or Tuesday whether the tax cut should be held to to $16.3 billion favored by the House, the $19.4 billion recommended by the Senate, or somewhere in between. 
House leaders generally favor the lower figure for fear that a tax cut that is teo large would worsen inflation. But there is strong senti­ment in the Senate for a bigger tax reduction in an effort to keep the economy growing. 
Meanwhile, the Senate begins its long-awaited debate Monday on a compromise natural gas bill that has been 16 months in preparation. The bill, a part of Carter's energy plan, would end federal price controls over newly discovered natural gas by 1985 and gradually raise the price of other gas. 
An estimated 30 senators say they are undecided on the mea­sure, which is under attack from consumer groups as too costly ·and from producers as resulting in too much government regulation. I 
What could be the critical vote on the compromise is likely Wednes day or Thursday. Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, will attempt to have the bill sent back to the conference committee which wrote it. That probably would kill the bill for the year. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd conceded yesterday that sup­porters of the bill do not yet have the votes needed to save it, but repeated his assertion that he is "increasingly optimistic that the votes will be there when the roll is called." He made the comments on 
Carter's proposal to sheamline the 
civil service system, which already 
has passed the Senate. Later in the 
week, House members will decide 
whether to trim the Comprehensive 
Employment and Training Act, the 
main federal job-creation program. 
The House assassinations com­
mittee will hear a report Monday 
on acoustics tests carried out 
recently in Dallas in an effort to 
determine how many shots were 
fired when President John F. 
Kennedy was killed. 
T~ Warren Commission said it 
is most likely that three shots were 
fired. Some persons who suspect a 
conspiracy in the assassination 
claim four shots were fired. 
Student Union installs copier 
The Student Union Services Commission has installed a ·copier in the main lobby of LaFortune. for the convenience of students. The cost is 5 cents per copy. 
0-C students to meet today 
A general meeting for off-campus students will be held today at 3:30 pm. in the Caron Court of LaFortune. 
The purpose of the meeting will be to inform students that an Off-Campus Office exists in Stu­dent Government, to outline the currentobjectives of the Off-Cam­pus Coordinator, and to solicit suggestions and ideas for off-cam­pus concerns. 
..-. •• 
b Micha"el Molinelli 

1HfSE ARE£SSEN77ALS. ·· 11lls GIZM0[)()£5 OVER ~JX1EEN HANDY KITCH£}/ FUNCTJ()NS­1HIS CoHBIIJAT16N DOUBJ..ES/J/L£8 
ANTJ MENU P1AIJN£R ••• 
A[L MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 
SHAKEY'S 

SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS 5 -7:30 MON -TUES -WED Pizza-Chicken· -Spaghetti-Salad 
All You Can Eat 
Engineeringand · 

Architecture Students ­
If you ar~ interested in serving as the College of Engineering Student Representative on the University Academic Council 
Please submft your name, resume and brief statement of purpose to th~ 
Office of the Dean of Engineeri.no by " 
r. 

.---------------------------1 
I


A\\-U\e 
Rcd<'n1'''RP\I 
~ou· taVl mgeto\ 

• L\\\€. K\.).~\c. 
• D\.~c..o
.o,. u~ .3\, ore 
rr\\\e roft'n a~~ ~\\Y\e. 
• Mu~-T 'te..\~ c{ O~f 



SBDLJrS 
IIITB CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-free Parking-Ph. 683·4350 
tONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 
SU commission organizes 

There will be an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. for those interested in workin8 on the Student Union Social Commission. The meeting will be in the Social Commission office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
People are needed to organize and publicize upcoming student social events. Workers are also needed for the Nazz. No exper­ience is necessary. For further information contact John Bonacci at 234-1744. 
Seniors plan 
semi-formal 

A Saint Mary's-Notre Dame Senior Semi-formal will be held this Sunday at Cinnabar's from 7 to 12 p.m. 
Tickets will be $15 per couple and will include an open bar, cheese and crackers, dancing, and a club membership at Cinnabar's 
Saint Mary's students may pur­chase tickets today through Thurs­day from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the LeMans Hall Lobby. Notre Dame seniors should contact their hall representatives for tickets. 
......~···············································
• 

§1~11~131~ S~I(IAlt l 
..()llciCil'~ St?J)t. 11 tllf()U~Il f1lcle~l' ~ St?!)t. 1~ 
: J-11()UI (ctiJ()t?trl(). ()1Jil ,~.()() ()t?l t::ctll()f? : 
+ • 
: OldFather Canoe Center Goshen, Indiana ; : (located on Indiana Route 119, West of Shanklin Park : 
• . ' •
4:00 p.m. Wednl'$day, September 20. • on the scenic FJkhart River) + 
~------~-041___04_o041___1>-0i_~-H)<-~·······~···········~..............................................J 
.. 

Monday, September 11,1978 
the observer 11 


Once-A-Year Upset Blues 
·==:=====:=======================:=========================================================================================================================================================================================================================:=== 
First came Alabama's "Little Blue Nun." Then came the Irish rebuttal, Johnson went in for only one play, fought off two blockers to make the "The Little Blue Nun Replies." tackle, and was removed, not to b.e seen for the remainder of the game. 
I can see the next one coming already: "Once-A-Year Upset Blues." It I think the Irish have better depth than Missouri. I wonder why they will be a country and western tune with a lot of "crying" steel guitar. didn't use it? Missouri Coach Warren Powers did. Johnny Cash will probably sing it. "Today we used substitutions well and it worked out for us," he said, 
after the Missouri shut-out. 

Oh, Ka-nute what can I do? As a sportswriter, I would much rather write about the positive, the 
I've got them once-a-year upset blues. uplifting aspects of sports...the clever plays. the glinting of gold helmets 
outlined against the same blue-gray October sky that inspired Grantland 
!But seriously, folks ... Rice what seems so very long ago. I'd like to write about the "shaking 
There are several things that I could write about now that things have down" of the thunder, and the "waking up" of the echoes. I'd simply literally "cooled off." Here are my options: love to "Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame." 
''I could rewirte my Mississippi game column of last year, or, for that But there was little to cheer about Saturday. In fact, even the leprechaun matter, I could reprint former Observer Sports Editor Fred Herbst's wasn't leaping. In fact, he wasn't doing much of anything. column on the Georgia Tech game two years ago. But that would be too Make no mistake about it: there was no lack of effort seen on either side. repititious As disappointed as you may be, rest assured that no one is sadder about 
the loss than Bob Golic. Or Joe Montana. Or Vagas Ferguson. Or Jay 1 could discuss the Irish' chances for repeating the National Case. Or Kris Haines. Or Mike Calhoun.
Championship. But, if we learned anything from Ole' Miss, we should Or Dan Devine.
have learned not to give up too soon. 
I'll bet that writing an "upset" story was once kind of a "completelyJcould expound upon Head Coach Dan Devine's post-game comment, "I unique experience" for Notre Dame sportswriters, kind of like the Colt 45 guess I have to be critical of myself for not realizing that field-goals win Malt Liquor we weren't allowed to drink Saturday in the stands. 
games, too." 
Now, it's ·becoming old hat...

Think about it. The theoretical implications alone are staggering. I could interview Brian Boulac and write my now-patented. annual "What happened to the offensive line?" story. 
Yanks, Bosox deadlocked
1 could leap headlong into an ascerbic and sarcastic analysis of whether Notre Dame will or will not accept an Astra-Bluebonnet Bowl bid. 
BOSTON [AP)--The New York Yan­Figueroa, 16-9, allowed three Howev~r, things are hot enough around here as it is. And if they're not kees moved into a first-place tie runs and three hits, including Fred now, they were Saturday. 
with Boston in the American Lynn's 21st homer, in the first sixHowever, someone must write post-game columns. and the "Monday League East, defeating the Red Sox innings. Gossage, earning his 23rdMorning Quarterback" syndrome _has alas aftlicted me. Ht;re is my 7-4 on Sunday to sweep their save, was nicked for an unearned attempt to analyze the game: four-game series. run in the seventh.
On second thought, I can't analyze the game. I have too many questions Craig Nettles, Roy White. Thur­that are yet unanswered. 
man Munson and Bucky Dent had Wrestling meeting 
Why not a field goal. for instance? Who's running the team. the fans or three hits apiece as the Yankees the coaches? Any time, on any level of football, on any given day, when went on an 18-single binge. Wrestling coach Ray Sepeta will there is a fourth down and short-yardage situation. the fans inevitably Ed Figueroa and Rich Gossage hold an organizational meeting for shriek, "Go for it! Go! Go! Go!" You can count on it. What you gladly combined on a live-hitter as the all men interested in the wrestling can't count on is the coaches listening. For whatever the reason. though. Yankees streaked to their sixth program this afternoon at 4:30 in the coaches went for the touchdown Saturday. consecutive victory and their 16th room C-14 (auditorium) of the 
Perhaps the Notre Dame coaching staff overrated the knowledge of "the in the last 18 games. With 20 Athletic and Convocation Center. fans," and underrated the knowledge of such a football no-name as Vince games remaining, New York's Lombardi (who's football acumen is. I think. unsurpassed) who said, defending World Champions and "never pass up a chance to put points on the board." Never. Boston have 86-56 records. *Observer 
And then, whv not more substitution? On as hot a football day that I can Boston's gamble in starting imagine, I would assume that some players were getting tired: .. hot. .. dis­rookie southpaw Bobby Sprowl traught. I don't understand why Jim Stone went in only once in the tirst failed quickly as the Yankees 


Sports

and once in the second half (a 34-yard gain for a tirst down) and then jumped to a 3-0 lead in the first didn't play again. I don't understand why experienced linebacker Pete inning. 
NOTICES 
Spec1al discount to all N.D. and SMC students on automotive parts. All you need is your I D card. Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric 1101 East Madison South Bend, Ind. 
Morrisey Loan Fund Student Loans $20-$150 1percent interest Due in 30 days one day wait LaFortune Basement M-F 11:30-12:30 .. 
Vegetable Buddies and Chariot present ''The Hot L Baltimore" by Lanford Wilson. Directed by Jack Campbell. September 11th and 12th at 8:00 p.m. at Vegetable Buddies. !Brooke Wailing and Ann Cahill are in it.] 
Trouble with your wheels? For a good deal-call George's car repair-3369 
All those interested in forming a team, come to the LaFortune Lobby, Wednes­day. Sept. 13. 6'45 p.m. Any questions, call Cam 8905 
FOR RENT 
For Young married couple without child­ren: Rent and salary in exchange for housekeeping work 4 days a week from 9-5. Comfortable, furnished apartment with 3 carpeted rooms and kitchen and bath. Free water and trash utilities and garage space for small car. Tenants pay for heat and electricity. No pets. Available now. Phone 289-1264. 
Garage for Rent, doutlle bed for sale, call 287-5718 
Live in a neighborhood with your profes­sors. Two graduate students (preferred) to share house close in. Darkroom. Call Ted. 289-01 03 
Lost: Pair of brown glasses with--squarish lenses. Lost at St. Mary's on Wenesday night. Reward Call Mike 8978 
Lost: Set of keys. Brown leather key holder. Lost on campus 9-6-78 Call 1476 
.ost: One swingline power gun 1000 staple gun -eft in 210 Bus Ad Building Aug 31. Reward offered. Call 3440 
FOR SALE 
Pure Breed Alaskan Malamute puppies. Big gentle dogs' good with children. Call after 4 p.m. 272-5418 
/114" Portable TV -Tape Player with 7 Inch reel-set of childcraft books call 232-3779 
WANTED 

Will trade 2 student tickets tor 2 GA tickets for Pitt game Call 4-1-4438 
Needed: 2 Michigan GA or student tickets Call Mike at 234-3574 
Sports Illustrated Court Club looking for enthusiastic individuals to work part time at our rquetball club. Positions availatlie are: teaching positions in raquettlall. desk sales. fi~ness center. playroom attendant, and janitorial work. Enjoyatlle job and good benefits. Call 259-8585 for appointment. 
Desperately Need GA tickets to Michi­gan. Will pay good$$$ Call Licia 4-4361 or Joe 277-2576 
Need 2 Michigan and 4Purdue GA tickets Call 1786 
Desperately needed 2 GA tickets to Purdue 1 Student Ticket Pittsburgh ­Chris 288-8859 
Desperately need one Michigan ticket. Call 7961 
Need Pitt tickets Please call 1150 
Need two GA tickets to Pitt game. b 
Pete 1460 
Wealthy father needs 2-4 GA tix tor any and all games. Money is trivial Call Mark 8605 
Need 2 GA or student tickets tor Michigan John 1785 
Wanted : 2 GA tickets tor Purdue game. Call Mike 6851 
Part-time tlartender must tle 21 male or female 289-4709 
Michigan tickets needed. Will pay megabucks Call Mike at 1371 
Help I Need GA or Student football tickets 
tor all games except Miami.  Good $$$  
Call #1735-Jeff  
Will  buy,  trade  "yes"  tix  for  Mich  

passes. G.A. 's Mark 3138 
Wanted: one student foottlall ticket for Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243 
Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay big bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8150 
"Wanted four GA Michigan Game call collect 712-732-2842." 
Wanted: Four tickets to Michigan game. call 277-2944 after 6 p.m. 
Desperately need Pili tickets. Money no object. Name your price. Call Lance 1027 
Need student t1ckets for Purdue game Call Terry 1488 
Wanted: one student GA ticket tor the Michigan game Call 114-1-4420 
Wanted: 2student or GA tix to Michigan and/or Purdue Boo 3068 
HELP! I need 4 G A tickets to Pitt. Call Bob at 8959. · 
Needed: Michigan GA tickets, student tickets tor other games. Call after 5 p.m. 272-4478. 
Desperately need one student or G.A. ticket to Michigan Game. Call1842. 
To repay friends, need 4 Purdue tickets 7988 or 7912 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets tor Mich. Bucks no problem Call Bill 8333 
I need 2 Michigan GA tickets. Money is not object. Call Steve 3054 · 
WILL PAY ANY PRICE FOR2 OR 4 GA PITT TICKETS CALL SHAUN 7965 
Need 1student tix for Michigan will pay $$$. Please call 234-1735. 
Desperately need Michigan ticketsl Will pay$$$. Call Bob 1151 
Helpl I need 2 GA Purdue tickets for Mom and Dad. Paul 1547 
Emergency! Need International Account­ing textbook. Call 3657 
"'Need : 4 GA Pitt tickets. Will pay$$$ Call Susan 4-1-4509 
IIIIFOR TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL HOME GAMES, Tim 272-7674 
Need 4 Purdue tickets Call Ben 3657 
Need 2 to 4 Michigan tickets 3441 3441 3441 
Wanted: Babysitter for 3month old baby, Thursdays 9 30 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. 232-9541 . 
Will trade any three student tickets for 2 GA's to Miami. Please help. Steve 3314 
Parents and brothers are coming out from Seattle for the Michigan game. Need four tickets. Call Kate McDevitt at 679-4935.• 
Need Pitt tickets -any kind, any price. Dave 8853 
.. 
'. _.·.(.• ... 
~ .... 
Connors, 
Evert 

.. 
Open champs 

NEW YORK [AP] -Jimmy Connors, beginning his retribution against Bjorn Borg, beat the top­seeded Swede 6-4, 6-2, 6-2 Sunday and regained the U.S. Open tennis 
,shampionship, while Chris Evert won ber fourth consecutive women's title with a 7-5, 6-4 victory over 16-year-old Pam Shriver. 
Connors, who lost the title to Guillermo Vilas last year, jumped in the air, his arms raised, walked to the net and affectionately rubbed Borg's head after the decisive victory. 
The 26-year-old American's tri­umph spoiled the 22-year-old Borg's bid for the Grand Slam. 
Borg, his thumb bandaged to protect a swollen, infected blaister, lost his racquet tw'Tce while serv­ing. It was not immediately known whether he had played with the aid of painkillers. He did not ask th<: trainer's assistance during the match. 
Connors. taking chances and attacking from the start, broke service in the fifth game. Games went with service the rest of the set. 
Borg opened the second set with two aces. both down the middle. He took the game at. love, reaching 4.0-0 with an overhead cross-court and taking the game on a service winner. 
But his serving success was spotty thereafter. 
Borg lost a 40-15 lead in the seventh game of the last set, and it was smooth sailing from there. 
Evert, 23, became the tirst woman since 1935 to capture the 
U.S. crown for four straight years. Tlhe last woman to do it was Helen Jacobs. 
Bot it wasn't easy. Shriver, the 

· youngest person ever to play in the tina! of the American champion­ship, used a strong attacking game to make the final Evert's toughest test in the tournament. 
Wanted: one Purdue ticket. Call Made­leine 4-1-5400 
Need 4GA Prude and 2 GA Michigan tix. Will pay$$$ and Free admission to all my OC parties. Call Tim 288-2773 
Oil Shah & Pope arrivmg for Tennessee, Purdue clashes. Require 2 GA tix each. Contact Cammy 4-1-4281 
Graduate Student needed to work for Dept. of Audio Visual services -1 to 5 
p.m. Monday through Friday. Please apply Room 9 Center for Crntinuing Education 
Bartended, Waitress, Dishwasher, :Pizza maker, supply-man, positions open ND­SMC students welcome, full and part time employment. hourly pay-minimum wage plys, apply in person to Nicola's Restaurant 809 North Michigan Street ­close to campus 
Notre Dame-Michigan tickets wanted. Exchange for tickets to next years sellour game in Ann Arbor or money. 1313-7230 
Part Time Help Wanted Live-in manager at men's psychiatric half-way house. Prefer psychology, sociology, or pre-med student. Great experience for advance­ment in the field. Call 234-1049 days for information. 
Needed desperately: two GA Michigan tickets Please call Teri, 7993 
Need Spending Money? Colonial Cater­ers at Century Center needs part time waiters. waitresses, and pantry help. Apply at Student Union or call 284-9151. 
Need 2Michigan t1x desperately-student or GA Please call: Maria 288-3831 
Give Mac a break, sell me your GA purdue tickets or I'll cry in my beer. Call 6551 
Mom and Dad will now do Anything to get 2 GA tix for Purdue Please, please, help. Call Brian 8671 
Need2-4-PURDUE TIX FOR PARENTS. Call Dan 8252 
Need 4 tickets to Michigan game Call: 8794 
PERSONALS 

G: Cifelli is wild, wonderful and Willing, Willing, willing, willing ... (Hope I get it right I) 
Yours truly, A (token) friend 
Band Breath May you always be on a band high the quint plus one 
Where are you ...or could it be true that blondes have more fun? SWI 
Substantial reward tor: Drive in hit and run accident. Saturday Sept 2 12:30 a.m. Drove green VW Bug Mich partial plates (HZT?). Damaged right rear. Remain anonymous Call S.B. Police or 272-8019 
Rumor 115 Is it true that Alumni Hall is chock full of "macho men???" You bet your strobe lights it is 11! 1 
Rumor II 6-Is there really a hoi·· .. .il or disco on 4th floor Cavanaugh??? Ask the Dakota kid-he's bound to know 1 
Yes is Godl 
Hi Sandy; Sorry this is late, bu' !ter late tnan never-Happy 18th b11 l.: ,yl The 911 Club 
Congratulations to Jene and t::drb Moonie. You have successfully complet­ed your last and most important acting test. You pleased the two man crowd with your first lime encore. Keep Miake and Paul shining with the moonlight in our eyes. Great Ill 
Terri and Jay,Belated happy birthdayl Terri wi II now be the terror of the Michigan "establishments'' and Jay will continue to be a terror I 
Would you like to be part of a group who shared prayer, reflection. and fellowship once a week? Contact Campus M,nistry, 103 Library, (6536) 
Needed: Experienced musicians ·.lc.al­ists. Instrumentalists interested 'ly­ing for liturgies on campus. If in please contact: Campus Minis' Lib. (6536) 
Come celebrate Liz Rooney anu 
McGrath's tlirthdays tonight at Cr 
Happy Birthday Liz Rooney anc .1 McGrath-you aren't getting older. you are getting better! Love, SMW. :>AM. SEC 
Remember activities day is tor freshman and Uppercl1nmen. Come check It out. 
My friends · Thanks for the pleasure of your company. -GWK 
Laurie-Happy Birthday to you ... trom Man­chester, CT -GWK 
~ ~

../1... ". ...... . ·\~.). ,• ..·'.:·. . '.·.: ' ·'~··.. :~ 
a• ~-.. -" a.· a.. ·~--...oii--...._~,A~•'t,•:JI!' -• "'....1"~ 0~.....__ _.;-L
• 

~-------------·---------~---------­
Tigers cook, Irish stew 
Missouri st~fles shocked Irish, 3-0 
in the top seven. They adjusted 
very well to the 'longer collegiate 
course:"

A Stunning Defeat 
The Irish took command from the start of the race and did not let Purdue challenge seriously at any

===================================================================================:==:=====================================================================================================================================================================================================================The Irish Eye 
by Ray O'Brien "We thought we could get \Kris 
Sporta Editor (Haines) deep behind their :S«jcon­
dary and get the fast touchdo~tm." 

The "fourth and one" situation mumbled a starry eyed Joe Mon-is one of the most exciting plays in tana. I football. It is a time when bothteams "We felt their strength w~s in dig in and show what they are their seven men up front," added made of. To the victor of this Devine. "We came out p.ssing trench war goes the spoils, and so it because we felt if they ! were was Saturday afternoon as Mis­susceptible, it would be to the souri shut out the Irish 3-0. pass." f 
The big fourth down plays didn't It looked as though Devine was come to the second half as the right on the opening play as tight defending national champs came end Nick Vehr broke free downfield out looking for the easy score but but an over-anxious Montana faded blew some early chances before the back into a teammate and then Tigers woke up and started hitting overthrew his open target. That people. was just one of many scoring 
j
• 

MIke Cllhoun end theN otrt 0 1m 1 dtfenn did 1 com mend1ble Job by holding M lzzou to only three points on Slturdly. How ever, the Irish offanu wu un1ble to dent the scoreb01rd In the 1978 opener. [Photo by Doug Chrlstlen] 
opportunities that Notre Dame was 
to pass up on this blistering day. 
When Montana finally got on target his receivers fell victim to stone hands as Ferguson and Condeni found the potato too hot to handle on the next drive. Devine's team managed to keep coming as they drove to the Tiger 18 yard-line before Montana fum­bled the snap and Chris Garlich recovered. For Montana it was the beginning of a nightmare, while for Garlich it was the first in a series of brilliant plays. 
Interceptions by Eric Wright and Garlich haulted Irish drives in Missouri territory, but Garlich's real heroics came in the third quarter on the first of three fourth and one-to-go situations. 
Early in the third quarter, Mon­tana tried to sneak for the two feet needed on fourth down at the Tiger eleven yard line, but Garlich shot in from his linebacker position and shut the gap for no gain. 
It was more of the same mo­ments later after Gerry Ellis fum­bled the ball back to Jeff Weston and the Tigers found themselves with their back against the wall again. Those backs bent but never broke when, on fourth and one from the one, Garlich land Kurt Peterson hammered Vagas Fer­guson for a three-yard loss. 
"We really didn't care how they moved the ball in the middle of the field," explained Garlich. "But we weren't going to give up any cheap touchdowns. When Montana went for it we were ready because we . knew they had a tendency to sneak on those short yard situations." 
Montana was just as aware of Garlich's presence as he explained, "We went for it because we had confidence in our guys up front, but on every try there was a linebacker stuffing the gap." 
The Notre Dame defense did some stuffing of its own as Tiger quarterback Phil Bradley was in­operative with the pass due to a strong rush from ND's front four, but the scrappy sophomore kept things alive with his scrambling. The defense that Devine was somewhat suspect about before the game was so outstanding that it made Devine second guess his strategy after the game. 
"I must criticize myself for not realizing field goals win games," lamented Devine. "Our one field goal was not a classic (filmbled snap) but we were in range several times." 
But how do you explain how a team can fail to get one yard in three tries? "Give Missouri credit was most responsible for checking for coming up with the big play. the Irish offense. But the statsitics They had a big strong defensive show that ND actually won the unit. But the defense they had battle of the lines, at least on the 

given us on fourth down was the first to third down plays. same one they used on third. We Notre Dame managed an 18-12 just simply should have been able edge in first downs and compiled to handle it." 173 and 151 yards rushing and 
If Devine didn't have the an­passing respectively to the Tigers' swers neither did the normally 151 and 110 yard totals. The only outspoken Irish center Dave Huff­statistics they lost was the most man. "I just have no idea of what telling--turnovers. The Irish had happened. I'm just stunned right five costly miscues to Missouri's now. Sometimes you play well and two. 
Mental errors such as Kris 
Haines' personal foul after taking


uUo1te photoo 
the ball to the three yard-line were costly. "He said I threw an elbow, but I didn't," insisted a morose

~e poqe 8 
Haines. The films clearly showed that it wasn't an elbow but a they play better." gentle, yet defiant, tap on the 
Still, the Irish weren't counted helmet of outspoken Russ Cala­
out until the very end as Montana brese that sent the Irish back to the and Pete Holohan became a two 18 yard-line.man show giving the home fans the The Irish will have to live with last bit of hope. The "Comeback this upset for two weeks when a Kid" had rebounded from a 4-17 tough Michgan team comes to first half to hit 9-12 in the second Notre Dame Stadium. Missouri sU!_nza as the last pass of the game has little time to savor the win as found Holohan at the 26 yard-line. they prepare for Alabama next The Irish were counted out on the Saturday. The victory lifts the next play as Ferguson fumbled the Tigers' career record to 2-1 against ball away and even the most ND. , optimistic fans began to leave after NOTES: the 3-0 shutout was the Randy Harrison fumbled a punt first time Notre Dame has failed to with 1:15 remaining. get on the board in 132 games...the 
In a dead-quiet ND locker room last time the Irish were blanked at after the game, none had excuses home was in 1960 when they lost or answers, only a numb feeling 21-0 to Michigan State ... Ferguson persisted. In the winning team's topped the Irish with 87 yards on 19 locker room, many explanations carries while Holohan caught five were given for the Tiger success. passes for 70 yards ... !Heavens 
"When you get down to it we gained 47 yards, leaving him 48 
just controlled the line of scrim­yards shy of Neil Worden's third mage," offered Garlich who with place total on the all-time Notre senior linebacking mate Billy Bess Dame rushing list. 

Harriers romp Purdue 
by Don Schmid ed at 25:45. 
Sports Writer "I'm extremely pleased that we 
won, although I know this team is 

Notre Dame's cross country team capable of much faster times," opened its 1978 dual meet season, stated coach Joe Piane after the crushing Purdue, 15-49, on Satur­meet. He commented that the day at the Burke Memorial Golf relatively slow times were due to Course. the intense heat and humidity on Saturday and the lack of competi­
Senior co-captains Dennis Van­tion faced from the PurduederKraats and Steve Welch, along runners.
with sophomore Pat Sullivan, led Welch added that the Irish werethe harriers in a three-way tie for being especialy cautious aboutfirst place with a time of 25:17. The peaking too early in the season andIrish took the next three spots as pushing themselves too hard insophomore Charlie Fox finished only their first meet.
with a time of 25:25, senior Joe Rounding out the Irish top sevenStrohman finished at 25:41, and was freshman Ed Bomber with afreshman Tony Hatherly was clock-time of 25:52. Piane said, "One of 

They were stunned. Most sat there, not teary eyed, but starry eyed in total silence. They were not mad or hostile, just stunned and confused. None was making excuses for losing or even giving explanations for the game's outcome. They sincerely did not know what went wrong. When they watch those game films, they will see the mistakes but it still will not give a full explanation or offer magic answers to the questions reporters asked and they could not answer. 
After you win ten straight games and are awarded the national championship, it is hard to come to the realization that you could be outplayed. The Irish were not manhandled or dominated but they were outplayed when it counted. Missouri didn't win on a bomb or a breakaway run. They won on hitting, especially when they had to. Dave Huffman was asked what happened on those short yardage situations and he had no answer. When it was suggested that perhaps 11 guys just physically and mentally performed better at certain situations than the Notre Dame players he thought about it. "Could that have happened? Certainly! I don't know why not." 
Were the Notre Dame players ready for this game. Yes. Were they overcofindent? Yes. The: strategy used from the outset indicated they were overconfident. They weren't carelessly cocky, but they were overconfident in situations where they did not perform up to the coach's expectations. From the first play of the game they went to the air looking to knock out the opponent early. Due to a combination of ND's ineptitude and Missouri's fine play, this aggressive game plan was foiled. When it was finally decided that the Irish were going to have to play nose-to-nose on an even level with the Tiger squad, Devine's team wasn't quite ready. 
Devine was ready to blame the end result on himself and while his liberal strategy could be questioned and every coach has to take part of the blame, t' ,·oach cannot go out on the field and clear out a 
point. Purdue's first man finished defensive line. It is too much to ask for the offensive team to gain one behind Notre Dame's sixth man, yard in three different tries? If you can't move the ball one yard when Hatherly, on a flat and dry Burke you have to, then perhaps you don't deserve to win. There is no doubt Course. that the Irish suffered some bad breaks but that is a part of every game and when you haven't been shut out in 132 games, it takes more than a The Irish are looking forward to few breaks to·end a streak like that. the NCAA cross country District IV The reason Dave Huffman and the offensive line did not know what Qualifiers in Minneapolis on hit them is because the guys that made the difference in key situations November 11. According to Piane, were not lined up nose-to-nose with them. While a loud mouth named District IV looks to be one of the Russ Calabrese was getting all the attention, the Missouri coaches 
toughest districts, as the Irish will knew that if they were going to win this game, two seniors would have face traditionally strong teams such to take charge. In the 5-2-4 defensive alignment the Tigers use, it is as Wisconsin, Michigan, linebackers Billy Bess and Chris Garlich that have to stop any runners 
Indiana, Illinois, and Central Mich­that get past the front lines. "My defensive seniors (Bess, Garlich) are igan. Piane noted that the Irish big play players," emphasized head coach Warren Powers. "They led have a very good chance of making the way and the rest of the defense followed." it out of the district. In the long run it is the steady hard hitting player that will make the VanderKraats feels, "This team difference and such was the case in this game as Garlilch and Bess led definitely has the potential to their team with 11 tackles a piece. The infamous Russ Calabrese was qualify and go undefeated in all the credited with one tackle and might have been the goat if he didn't get dual meets." Kris Haines' goat when he got burned on a long pass play near the goal Notre Dame's next dual meet is a line. Michigan State on September 22. The Irish will have two weeks to prepare for Michigan, but it isn't Piane looks for a little 
more easy living for two weeks with a thorn in your side. Nevertheless, the competition from State's harriers pressure is lessened and there are ten tough games left. Joe Restic because they traditionally run well summed up the atmosphere after the game and where his team had to on their hilly home course, com-go from here as he explained. "They took chances and guessed right. ,.,pared to a flat course such as Notre Maybe it wasn't meant to be. We're just stunned. But I'm still proud Dame's Burke. Piane stated, of our defense and of our entire team. This is a proud bunch of guys "Michigan State has supposedly and we have a very good team." For now there's only more come off of a good recruiting year, preparation waiting. but I think we will win." 




