
server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 96 Monday, March 6, 1978 
Te_rmed 'success' 

Women's Alumnae Weekend held 

has been planning the weekend all by Rosemary Mills semester. The seminar and discus-Staff Reporter 
sion held on Saturday in the Library Questions raised in the Report on Auditorium was the fullfillment of a 
Coeducation provided the basis for five year dream, according to Sr. discussion at the first Notre Dame Jones. Women's Alumnae Weekend held Approximately 100 women lis-March 4th and 5th. Michele Kelly, tened as 13 alumnae, who gradu­coordinator ofthe weekend, termed ated between the years of '74 and 
it "a huge success," and com-'76, responded candidly to such mented that the enthusiasm questions as "In what way has your expressed by both the alumnae and womanhood been either a benefit the students "was tremendous." or detriment as you entered into 
The Advisory Council for Women your present occupation?" under the direction of Assistant Other questions centered upon Provost, Sr. John Miriam Jones, women's experience and prepara­
~~~~ii~~~~ij~ijija~iiiiajjiii;iii:~~~~
~ 

The Neighborhood Roots tour on Sunday ended with a meal at a Polish wedding feast. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 

tion at Notre Dame, such as how their Notre Dame background either helped or hindered them in their adjustment to what is still basically a "man's world." 
The women agreed that tnetr Notre Dame ba~kground .~as helped them most tn the transttton into the corporate world. 
Peggy Henderson, a Products Research Chemist ~t Proctor & Gamble, was the etghth woman along with 400 men on the staff level. "It was a real switch for a lot ?f wo~en there," sh_e noted, "~~t tt was JUSt an extens.ton for ~e. 
Ellen Syburg, asststant dtrector 
of Admissions at Lake Forest College, state~ that the biggest h7lp wa~, havmg so mall:y male frtends. I have to deal wtth men now, and having had so many male friends at Notre Dame, I can relate to them more easily." 
A community organizer in Coving­ton, Kentucky, Betsy Dwyer found that the predominately male back­ground of Notre Dame also gave her problems. "Sometimes women ?on't un~ersta~d that I have no mterest. tn th.etr ~?sbands other than bemg a frtend. Dwyer stated that at first she was hurt and confused by this attitude, but now just tries to put herself in that 
situation.. . 
_Accor~mg to Jone~, the !JOtnt of thts part.tc~lar 9-uestton wasto teach the admtmstration at Notre Dame what they could do to better prepa~; wo~en for the "real w~rld , or tf they_ were already domg an adequate job. After the ~ession, Jones noted she was glad tt had taken five years for the program to materialize. "These women have matured enough to be able to share some of their wisdom and beauty with us." 
After some discussion on busi­
ness experiences and the question 
of finding jobs, the talk turned to 
more personal matters, such as 
marriage and the family. This 
portion of the afternoon was aimed 
at helping the students to realized 
how decisions were reached. 
Both the students and the alum­
nae showed great interest in listen­
ing to others' experiences. Topics 
centered on deciding when and if a 
person was ready to marry, if they. 
wanted children, and how to balance these decisions with a career. Ofthe 13 alumnae, four are married and one is engaged to be married soon. None of the four have children. 
Basically, the· women agreed that marriage is a decision to be made by every individual. They said there is no set standard for deciding if a person should get married, that ''you have to decide for yourself if you are ready." 
Other factors the alumnae men­tioned were the man's willingness to accept the woman's fulfillment 
of her career objectives, and the 
woman's decision as to how far she wanted to pursue her goals. The emphasis was placed on compro­mise between the husband and wife. 
Martha Vazquez Mathew, a third year law student at Notre Dame, is married to another law student. "You don't have time to be a typical married woman,'' she stated. Mathew said that in job interviews she had to convince people that after her education she did intend to practice. "Even though questions about children are illegal in interviews "-she warned, "they do get asked." 
Henderson related how she made a conscious decision during her senior year not to get married directly after graduation. Her decision was based partly on the fact that she wanted a career. Her otherreason was that during school other people had been testing her. "This was time for me to test myself," she announced. 
The attitude of the women was • summed up in the statement that whatever you decide, "you have to be firm in your convictions." 
There were reminders, too, that it was not impossible to do some­thing out of the ordinary, such as role reversal in terms of caring for the family. Mary Clemency also noted that a woman should not feel pressured to make the same deci­sion as the concensus of her friends. She cautioned that you could not plan your life for the next five years and expect it to come out perfectly. 
The high divorce rate among graduate students and students married directly out of college was also noted. 
After the panel discussion, the alumnae and interested students regrouped in the library lounge. Informal and more specific discus­sion was held between small groups of people. 
Jones was impressed by the turnout and the success of the afternoon, calling it "the best thing she ever saw." Both Kelly and Jones appreciated the candid, relaxed atmosphere of the discus­sion and gave credit to the alumnae for being so willing to share their experiences. 
Barb Frey, chairman of the Advisory Cpuncil for Women, also voted her satisfaction. "There was a real connection between the women in the audience and the alumnae," she noted. Frey added that there was nothing "superfi­cial" about either the questions or the answers, making it a "valuable experience" for both parties. 
[Continued on page 5] 
Inside the Observer today: The candidates' final say p. 6 
Report on the candidates' final forum p.ll 
Irish receive NCM bid p. 12 
else, she said.

by Marti Hogan Carter Administration and appear explained that his proposal, how­
Speaking on the coal strike,

Editor-in Chief to be working well, according to ever, is designed to aid middle-in­
Carter said, "There is no way I can 

Walt Wurfel, deputy press secretay come families. 
impose a settlement on the coal

President Jimmy Carter an­and ex-night editor of the Stanford More work-study money would 
miners that they will honor." He
also be availabe through the Presi­

nounced Friday that although the daily.
Carter 
added that he would step in if the 

SALT talks with the Soviet Union "You give him questions which dent's proposal, Berry said. "The 
new contract is not ratified, prob­

lfave.. made "good and steady don't come from Washington re­major focus now islo give money to 
ably by invoking the Taft-Hartley

progress,'' he may have to meet porters," Wurfel told the students, the students," she said. In the 
with Soviet Premier Leonid adding that Washington reporters case of private institutions, the act. 
"We think we acted at the right
Education Department can by-pass

Breshnev to work out several can become isolated. 
time," Rubenstein said in answer

differences. Before meeting with the Presi­the institution and give money 
to criticism of Carter's involvement

speaks to 

In a conference with college dent, the editors listened to and directly to the student. 
in the strike. He said a statement 

newspaper editors, including the questioned Mary Berry, assistant Berry explained the current pro­
from Carter urging the miners to

editor-in chief of The Observer, secretary for Education, depart­posal to separate the Education 
ratify the contract might ha\'e a

differences involve "twelve highly ment of Health, Education, and Department from HEW, stating 
counter effect, however.

techinical issues, three or four of Welfare (HEW); Dave Rubenstein, that the office of Management and 
In other domestic areas, Ruben­

which are highly significant." deputy assistant to the President Budget is looking into the possibil­
stein said that the Carter admini­


college 

for Domestic Affairs and Policy; ity of dividing the departments. 
stration will reveal a new urban

"My guess is that the negotia­Jill Schuker, special assistant to Berry stressed that the reason was 
policy at the end of this month aild 

tors will resolve most of the issues the assistant secretay for public not to centralize government, but 
will probably devise a national

in Geneva and that it will probably affairs, Department of State; and to provide more assistance and 
health insurance program in a year. 

require a direct meeting or com­Midge Costanza, assistant to the financial support. 
Carter announced that he will

munication between myself and President for Public Liason. HEW now has the responsibility 
:leliver a speech on a national

Press Secretary Jody Powell could under the age discrimination act to
spaperPremier Breshnev before we can 
defense policy March 17 at Wake 

new reach a final agreement," he not attend the briefing because he write regulation, "but we have no 
Forest University in Winston­

continued. Should the SALT talks was speaking in California at the plans for moving the mandatory 
Salem, North Carolina. 

break down, Carter foresees no time. retirement age," Berry stated. 
At the close of the question-and­

threat from the Soviets through The Education Department has 
answer period, Carter addressed
received requests to exempt uni­
Cuba. 
the editors as leaders of the future,
versities from the age requirement,



edl••or.s 
Carter discussed a variety of 
Questions and Answers emphasizing the importance of the

11 topics with 200 editors from col-but Berry expressed concern that 
"independant analysis and dee

exempting universities could also
leges and universities around the 
inquisitiveness", of col:ege-ag
be discrirninatoryr "To let them

country. The briefing session was Calling the tax credit proposal 
students. "The voice of those wi 

one of the 20 half-hour sessions "ill-advised," Carter said the pro­(professors) hang on forever 
:ourage is very important;''Carter

which Carter allows during the posal is very expensive and will wouldn 
iaid. "When I'm right, I needlo 

year. The sessions are new to the only help affluent families. He wouldn't help stadents or anybody 

ort.' 

the observer _____.:...M:..:.::.on:.:.d=a=y!..!, March 6, 1978 
News Briefs_____ 

t======::===::===::===::===::===::===::===:::::: National 
ompetency tests questioned 
WASHINGTON , Thirty-one states have adopted minimum competency testing in schools, but a National Academy of Education panel advises caution in the rush to set standards for students. And some educators feel they are being made scapegoats for students' declining test scores and failure to learn the basic skill~. "The minimum competency test movement is a vote of no confidence in the schools," said Diane Ravitch, a professor at Columbia University's Teachers College and a critic of the teaching profession. The panel contended that any statewide minimum competency standard for a high school diploma "is basically unworkable, exceeds the present measurement arts of the teaching profession and will create more social problems than it can conceivabl solve." 
Indiana UMW's re_ject pact 
Indiana United Mine Workers followed a national trend yesterday and voted to reject a tentative agreement and continue their 90-day walkout that has already put almost 10,000 Hoosiers temporarily out of work. With 14 of Indiana's 221ocals reporting last night the pact was being rejected 830-770. The total does not reflect voting by Local 1589, where the pact was approved but the local president declined to give the exact voting. Even if the remaining UMW members vote to approve the pact its fate is apparently sealed nationall . 
WEATHER 
Cloudy today with highs in the low to mid 30s. There is a SO percent chance of snow tonight with more snow expected tomorrow. Lows in upper teens to low 20s and highs tomorrow in the upper 20s to low 30s. 



On Campus Today_---... 
12:15pm 
12:30pm 
3:15pm 
4:30pm 
6-7:30pm 
7&10pm 7:20pm 
8pm 
8pm 
8pm 
10pm mass everyday during lent, fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
film title VII: litigation, spon. by women's rights as,oc. law school, rm. 105 
career workshop "decision making & values clarification," with jean gorman. spon. by career development center, stapleton conf. rm. 
dreyfus lecture "spectroscopy of ultra cold mole­cules," prof. leonard whartson of james frank institute, u. of chicago. spon. by chem. dept, 123 
nieuwland science hall  
freshman decision seminar spon. by freshman office council, regina aud. smc.  "a &  major student  decision," academic  

film "the virgin spring," spon. by college of a& I and the medieval institute, no charge, eng. aud. 
duplicate bridge ladies of nd, faculty & staff duplicate bridge, univ. club 
perspective series in. philosophy "punishment," richard wasserstrom, ucla. spon. by philosophy dept. public invited, galvin aud. 
annual mcavory lecture "roman catholicism in the american historical canon," martin e. marty, univ. of chicago. spon by history dept. lib. aud. & lounge. 
basketball, nd vs. Ioyoia, home. 
lenten prayer service spon. by campus rr.mtstry, confessions will follow the service, sacred heart church. 
Turesday, 
March 7.  workshop  welfare  dept  spon.  by sociology dept.  
9am  stapleton lounge.  

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre announces its season of full length plays entitled "Our Second Scene.'' All productions are free of charge except A Man for all Seasons. Tickets for this show are $2.50, $2.00 for ND-SMC Students, Faculty, and Staff. 
Home, the recent Broadway success by David Storey, is being 
SMC plans. spring activities 
Saint Mary's Junior Class will hold a semi-formal dance at Cinna­bar's Sunday, April 9 for juniors and their dates, it was announced last night at Saint Mary's Junior Class meeting. 
The cost will be $13 per couple which includes the dance, two memberships to Cinnabar's, an open bar, cheese and crackers and boutoniers. for the guys. 

"It would normally cost more than that,"Donna Noonan, class president, said,"But we have made such a profit on the Junior formal that we can afford to underwrite this dance." 
Plans for a class mass on the island in Lake Merian sometime this spring, Little Sister's Weekend on April 7 and 8 and the showing of "Girls on the Beach" in Regina Auditorium on Sunday night were also discussed. 
Noonan also announced that the Junior Class Pre-Saint Patrick's Day party scheduled for Friday night in the clubhouse has been cancelled. Due to the energy crisis, the clubhouse will be closed until further notice. They will try to arrange another party for sometime after spring break. 
Finally, Lisa Morel, Karen Lowery and Maureen Carden were inroduced as the senior class trip chairmen from Saint Mary's. They reviewed the previously announced plans for the trip and stressed that the $50 non-refundable deposit is due by May l. Saint Mary's students must register for the trip at Saint Mary's, not at Notre Dame. Carden said. Anyone from 
Saint Mary's who registers at Notre Dame cannot be guaranteed a seat, she warned. More informa­tion will be given after spring break. 




Theatre itinerary announced 
directed by senior Robert Van Tornhout. Production dates are March 12 and 13 at 8 p.m. in the Regina Hall Auditorium at SMC. 
Jean Cocteau's Les Parents Terrlbles [Intimate Relations] will be an arena production on the O'Laughlin Stage at SMC. This circus spectacle, directed by Mark Amenta, will play on April 2 and 3 at 8 p.m.. 
On April 6 and 7 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall (ND), The Maids, by Jean Genet, will be directed by Pat Fanning. The play centers around the conflicts and possible love relationships among three women. 
Lisa Colaluca will take the role of Emily Dickinson in the one-woman 
show by William Luce, The BeUe of Amherst. The unique staging is set in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall (SMC), on April17 and 18 at 8 p.m. 
t. · d. t d b J 1·
The produc ton Is tree e y u te Jensen. Commemorating the SOOth anni­versary of Thomas More's birth, 
Dr. Reginald F. Bain, chairman of the Cooperative Department of 
Speech and Drama, is directing Robert Bolt's A Man for all Seasons on April 20, 21, and 22 at 8 p.m. 
Stanislav lgnacy Witkiewicz's The Madman and the Nun is being directed by Saint Mary's senior, Ann Cahill. The production, at the SMC Clubhouse, will run April 24 and 25 at 8 p.m. 
Also on the 24th and 25th of April at 8 p.m. will be William Saroyan's tale of optimism and hope, The Time of Your Ufe, at Vegetable Buddies in downtown South Bend. 
On May 1 and 2, at 8 p.m., Arthur Miller's searing drama, All My Sons, will also appear at Vegetable Buddies. Senior Jack Campbell is directing. 
For information on tickets call 284-4176. Any other information on "Our Second Scene," call 
r284:;:.,;..-.;!.4!,;14~1o:.·--------­
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during enm and nation periods. Tl)e
Observer Is publlslled by the stvclents of Notre Dame 1111d Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor no per.,..,.
(51 0 per semester) trvm The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Seamd 
ctau postage paid, Notre Dame, Indian•, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of 
the Aasocleted '""-"· All repro­
duction rights ere ,....rwcl. 
The production will be set in Notre ~~~~~~~~;:;~~~;;;;;;
Dame's Law Library. Tickets go on~ sale Apri13, 1978. 
Medieval film 


ROCCO'S 
to be shown 
The College of Arts and Letters, in conjunction with the Medieval 
BARBERS
Institute, is sponsoring a viewing of Ingmar Bergman's The VIrgin Spring, tonight in the Engineering 
hairstylists
Auditorium. There will be no admission charge. 
• Bergman's use of highly contras­ting black and white evokes an 
531 N. Michigan 
imaginative medieval world, sug­
233-4957
gesting the battle of Christianity and paganism. 

Hair Sttll111 at 1t'1 Rlllll 
lor ... 

The Kaights
-~ 
Use our private entrance · 277-1691at the Queen's Castle. 
272-0312 54533 Terrace laneTues. & Wed. 8:30;6:30 
Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 
Only 5 minutes Sat. 8:30-5:30 
from campus 
LENTEN I~RAVER 1ue1cJ.~y.. rn•rch 7 IOPM lftcred hecarl church 
CONFESSIONS FOLLOWING 
CJ 
I

r:;: II ... '
'--=:==:::====~-·~~~~~ ~;-or•-···~. l 
*The Observer 
·I Tonight's Theme: Watergate 
Carl Bernstein: Joe Bauer Rosemary Woods: Sandy Colson Plumbers: John Cassidy, Steve Md_¥er, Sue Wuetcher. Jerrv Jarzynka, Bill Devitt Martha Mitchell: Rosemary Mtlls 
Bob Woodward: Frank Laur­ino john Dean: Bob Brink Cubans: Steve Odland, Carol Erkmann, Mark Rust, Anne Giere john Sirica: Mardi Nevin Deep Throat: Bob Bernoskie Sam Ervin: Debbie Dahrling Richard Nixon: Rob Civitello 
H.R. "Bob" Haldeman: Leo Hansen 

;-corby's 

BUD & Midwest Sporting 
Goods 
,_--~-­
.

····~~···· 
invites you to 
CORB~ 
Prizes totaling over $200! 
$1.00 Entry Fee 
Sign up Mardl 6 and 7 at Corby's 
Fre-Urns Mardl 8 -Starting time 8 :30 pm 
Rnals, Wed. Mar. 15 
i 
1,., 
1:; .., ... 1•. 
·'. 
I
.I '1 
I 






the. observer 

~ 



Canal resolutions evoke emOtions 


ctireded by Mim Spari<s Field, featuring the premiere of a work by David Clark lsele, guest appearance by mermers of the Indianapolis Ballet Theatre. 
by Ann Gales 
Senior Staff Reporter 

"American interest is definitely in continued use of the Panama Canal," Richard R. Wyrough , a foreign service officer in the De­partment of State, told a small crowd of approximately 75 students Friday afternoon in the Law School Lounge. 
Wyrough, who presently holds a positions as senior advisor to Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker and deputy director for treaty affairs in the Office of Panamanian Affairs, called for American support and 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Striking mi­ners voted overwhelmingly against a proposed contract yesterday and 
President Carter made plans to step in swiftly to try to force miners back to work in the 90-day-old strike. 
Sources said the president was likely to invoke the strikehalting provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act today, setting in motion a se­quence of events that could lead to a back-to-work court order within a few days. 
White House Press Secretary Jody Powell told reporters: "It's
h

clear from the trend in t e voting that the president will have to act 
no later than tomorrow. It will be the primary topic of the Cabinet meeting tomorrow to be followed by a bipartisan meeting of the congressional leadership." 
With 482 of the United Mine 

Workers' (UMW) locals or
794 about 60'/l reporting, there were 44,666 votes against the contract and 19,885 in favor of it. . 
"It appears now that thts con­

tract isn't going to make it," said Willard Esselstyn, UMW secretary-treasurer. 
Esselstyn declined to answer 

questions except to say he had been in touch with UMW President Arnold Miller.
Administration officials began a new round of meetings to plim their next step in a strike that has caused power curtailments and job layoffs and threatened serious damage to the economy. 
President Carter met with Labor 

Secretary Ray Marshall and other 
administration officials at the 
White House when he returned 
from a weekend stay at the 
presidential retreat at Camp David, 
Md. 
Pending final decisions by the president. one source said, the administration's stategy was sha­ping up this way: 
Carter would invoke the Taft­Hartley Act tonight, appointing a three member board of inquiry required under the law to make a report. 
Senate approval of the Panama Canal treaty currently under de­bate in the Senate. 
Wyrough remarked that since mid-October he has traveled to 22 or 23 states lecturing on the treaty. "The Panama Canal is a very emotional issue in the United States as well as in Panama, and it is a problem that has occupied almost all my time and thought for the past four years," he stated. 
The existing treaty with Panama was negotiated by the administra­tion of Theodore Roosevelt in 1903, 75 years ago, Wyrough pointed out. "Roosevelt's actions gained considerable popularity in the U.S., 
It was learned that its members were likely to be Carl Warns, a law professor at the University of Louisville; Eva Robins, a labor arbitrator from New York, and Jack Gentry, a Washington lawyer. 
Officials said the administration probably would be ready to go to court within a few days to seek a 
back-to-work  order  against  the  
miners.  
The  administration  earlier  had  

been considering asking Congress for special legislation to authorize a federal seizure of the mines or to impose binding arbitration in the 
case.
The Taft-Hartley Act would per­mit the federal government to step in more swiftly, however. One 
official estimated that the govern­ment could be in federal court seeking an order by Wednesday. 
It is widely belie-xed that thou­
sands of miners would ignore such 
an order, complicating efforts to 
impose at least a temporary end to the strike. Miners have ignored such court injunctions in the past. 
· Iii
woR 
.
DE T,ON
l.( 
Freshmen­

Undecided?
Sophs. 

MONDAY, 6 MARCH 6:00 -7:30 PM 
Regina Auditorium 
Questions? 
Cathy 4809 

since the treaty allowed us to go down there, construct the canal and operate it for our ships and navy and all the other ships of the world. "he said. 
However, Roosevelt's Secretary of State John Hayes expressed a 
popular sentiment, according to Wyrough, when he commented that the treaty of 1903 was "very advantageous to us, but not so advantageous to Panama." Wyrough added that the treaty of 1903 is now "universally viewed by friend and foe alike as a relic of 
. colonial times." 
Negotiations for a new treaty began 14 years ago for three major reasons, Wyrough said. "First we want to keep the canal available for our use. The old treaty once was an effective instrument, but it is no longer as valuable as it used to be, "he commented. 
Second, Wyrough stated that a · new treaty, more accepta.ble to Panama, would work to "enhance 
U.S. relations not only with Pana­ma, but also with the other ~ountries of Latin America." :.astly, he said, a new treaty is 
being negotiated to avoid needless military, economic and political conflict in the Canal Zone. 
The result ofthe 14-year negotia­tion period was actually two trea­ties which were approved by a 66 percent vote in a plebiscite held in Panama last. October, and which are currently being considered by the U.S. Senate. 
The first treaty, according the Wyrough, would relinquish U.S. control over the canal in the year 2000. Until that time, the U.S. would operate the canal just as it has since 1914-through the Panama Canal Commission, whose director would be an American until 1990, and c. Panamanian thereafter. 
According to the second treaty, 
the U.S. and Panama would work together after the turn of the century to preserve the continued neutrality of the canal. 
"Until the year 2,000,''Wyrough revealed, "the U.S. would pay Panama 30 cents per ton of cargo shipped through the canal, and $10 to 20 million annually." However, he stressed that the payments would come from the shippers who use the canal, not the American taxpayers. 
Wyrough outlined four reasons why treaty negotiators feel the "the treaties deserve the approval of American citizens." 
"First, they provide the best possible way to protect our primary interest which is continued use of the canal," he stated. "In order to have a worthwhilearrangement,'ite said,"we must have Panamanian consent." · 
Also, Wyrough pointed out that
. the present situation in Panama is one of brewing resentment against the United States. "We know that our adversaries will exploit this resentment if the status quo is maintained,'' he commented. 

Negotiators also believe that the 
new treaties would remove obsta­cles and enhance relations with Latin American countries. "Latin America is a major supplier.of raw materials and an important market, as well as the scene of major American investment, so good relations are extremely impor­tant,'' Wyrough noted. He added that the old treaty reflects a time when "intervention" was the Uni­ted States' way of dealing with Panama. 
"Lastly, the treaties would rein­force the image of a true world leader and a nation willing to adapt its relationships with other coun­tries in light of changing factors," Wyrough said. "If the status quo is maintained,'' he concluded, ''the result will be resentment, loss of Latin American confidence and the mistaken appearance of U.S. in­flexibility." 
Senate debate 
According to Wyrough, the Sen. ate concluded almost three weeks of debate on the treaties Friday. 
"I understand that they've just gotten through Article I of the first treaty, and that already ten amend­ments have ben voted on," he stated. Each of the ten ammen­ments was defeated by close to two-thirds vote. Fifty more ammendments have been intro­duced, but not yet voted upon. 
Wyrough commented that he was somewhat surprised at the opposition that the treaties have met with in the Senate. "We have appreciated from the beginning that the treaties would have to be acceptable not only to Panama, but also to at :east two-thirds of those considering them in the Senate, and we believed that they would be,'' he stated. 
However, he remarked that he was still optimistic about the Senate's forthcoming decision. "I think the treaties will pass,'' he said. "When, I don't know." 
Wyrough noted that "opponents of the treaties are pursuing the stategy of killing them with amend­ments." The danger here, he said, is the introduction of a "killer amendment'' --an amendment SC' attractive that it would be difficuh not to vote for, but that would change the treaties so as to make them unacceptable to Panama. 
Commenting that he did not think it would be to the U.S. advantage to return to the negotia-· ting table, Wyrough expressed the hope that the treaties will not have to be amended. 
"What we have achieved 
through almost 14 years of negotia­
tions is to strike a balance, he 
stated. "Neither side got all that it 
[Continued on page 5] 

M<reau litde Theatre ·March 10 & 11 Admission Free 8:00PM 
.._____.A Second Scene Presentation---­

See MR. ART ARENS, Corporate Employment Representative 

Mr. Steve Gutschenritter, 
ChE Notre Dame '77 March 13th 8:30a.m.-4:45p.m. Placement Bureau ADMINISTRATION BLDG. 

Commerce secretary agrees 
Economists call for jobs 



WASHINGTON [AP] • Two lib­are necessary to ease the pain, but eral economists, urging local stra­they can't cure the patient." tegies for full employment joined She said the goal of federal Commerce Secretary Juanita urban programs is "to help com­Kreps yesterday in calling for munities achieve, ultimately, eco­efforts to develop "economic self­nomic self-sufficiency.'' sufficiency.. in the nation's Several Commerce Department troubled cities. proposals, likely to be part of the 
"It is no solution to the problems president's upcoming urban policy, of cities with high concentrations fo are desingned to help. These. poor to hand out bus tickets and include a $1 billion public worksi hope for the best," Kreps told the program to pay for labor-intesive: National League of Cities. Instead, projects geared to local publici she argued for bringing jobs to the needs. i unemployed. In their speeches to 1,700 visit­
The secretary said the business ing city officials, economists Gar environment is improving in many Alperovitz and Norton Long urged ' cities. And she stressed job-crea­federal aid in helping cities develop · tion programs that would stimulate job opportunities. private investment. Alperovit, an economist who , 
Noting that five of six jobs are in heads the Exploratory Project for ' the private sector, she said, "bet­Economic Alternatives, told the . 

ter economic opportunities for the league, "I suggest we apply the SMC holds program 
urban poor will never emerge Humphrey-Hawkins goal of four unless the number of private jobs is percent unemployment by 1983 to growing. Government programs specific towns and cities of the nation.'' While endorsing the national
Budweiser holds 
goals of the Humphrey•Hawkins bill, he added, ''The thing is wetrivia contest live locally. The final litmus test is that local communities must be 

Dr. Kenneth Lauer, professor of Civil Engineering at Notre Dame, demonstrates to students techniques of concrete formwork. The concrete base being formed is part of a full scale demonstration model being constructed by the stucf·~ts for new exterior campus lighting, under the extensive Campus Planning project being conducted by Esmee Bellalta, Department of Architecture. The lighting project is one of several areas being investigated by the students, who submitted their ideas and reseilrch to Campus officials last semester. [Photo by Rawbut Howierd 
Grindstone Peace School seeks summer applicants 
The Grindstone School for Peace Research, Education and Action is now accepting applications for their third annual summer school pro-
Sewell speaks on magic 
Author and poet Elizabeth Sewell, visiting professor of Eng­
lish  at  the  University  of  Notre  
Oame,  will  deliver  three  public  
lectures  on  the  topic  of  Oculus  

lmaginationis: The Way of High Magic" tomorrow night and Wed­nesday and Thursday evening at 
8:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
The first lecture, "The Primal Images," will deal with the Pytha­gorean and Platonic tradition of cosmology. "Memory ox Past and Future," the second, will focus on memory systems and the image of the theater, and the third, "The Transformative Power,'' will deal with the literary imagination and the figure of Circe. 
The faculty member received her 
•iqctorate from Cambridge Univer­sity. The au thor of three novels and three volumes of poetry, she has al~o published numerous works of ~riticism, including "The Structure of Poetry," 1951; "The Orphic Voice: Poetry and Natural His­tory." 1960, and "The Human Metaphor," 1964. 
SENIORS: 
1s DAYS 
TILL GRADUATJC)NI 

gram to be held August 5-19, 1971:S. 
The school is located on wooded Grindstone Island in Ontario, Canada, and the program is con­cerned with the topics of peace, Third World struggles, sexism, structural violence, and the New International Economic Order. 
Co-operatively designed for uni­versity students, teachers, and activists, the school is an intensive course on major social issues. Twleve resource people include university peace researchers, Native People's organizers, and anti-nuclear power leaders. 
The cost for the two-week pro­gram is $200, which covers tuition, room and board. There is a 30 student limit for the session and applications should be submitted as soon as possible. 
For information and applica­tions, please write Co-ordinator A, Grindstone School, Box 571, Stn. P, Toronto Ontario, Canada, M5S 
2Tl. . 
Who is Robert Zimmerman? stabilized." George Duke played keyboard for Alperovitz is working on a fede­what rock group? rally funded project to bolster the 
Persons knowing the answers to sagging economy of Youngstown, these and 22 other similar ques-lr---------­
tions are eligible to win a fabulous 
trip to Hollywood or 1,164 other 
prizes in the Budweiser Rock & 
Roll Trivia Contest. 
EntryI quiz forms began appear­
ing on college bulletin boards, in 
campus drinking spots and in 
collegiate newspapers and Rolling 
Stone magazine Feb. 1, according 
to AI Carosi of Anheuser-Busch, 
Inc., brewer of Budweiser. 
To be eligible to win, entrants 
must answer all 24 questions 
correctly. All winners will be 
selected from a random drawing. 
Grand prize is a trip for two to 
Hollywood, including round-trip air 
fare, 24-hour limousine service, a 
120-second record spree at Tower 
Records, a complete Sansui stereo 
system, rock concert tickets and 
$300 cash. 
Four first-prize winners will re­ceive all CBS record albums released during a one-year period plus a Sansui stereo system. 
There will be 10 second-prize winners; each will receive their choice of 25 CBS record albums. 
Some 150 third-prize winners will receive the CBS record album of their choice, the rock group "Journey's" latest release, Infini­ty, and a Budweiser-Journey T-shirt. 
Budweiser T-shirts will go to 1,000 runners-up. All entries must be returned to 
P.O. Box 9017, Blair, Nebraska 68009 by March 31, 1978. 
The Budweiser Rock & Roll Trivia Contest is open to residents of the U.S. of legal drinking age in their states, except in a few states where such contests are prohibited by law. 



Ohio, a city that is losing thousands of steel industry jobs. He has developed a plan that could involve community ownership of a steel firm. 
Long, a University of Missouri economist working at the Woodrow Wilson International Center in Washington, told the city officials, 
"I couldn't agree  more  with  the  
view  that  we  need  local  full  
employment policies.  

"Everything you do in the cities is easier if you have an effective full employment policy," he said. 
Long lambasted the development of "national economic policis with­out knowing what the local impact will be." 
Maj"or undecided? 
Saint Mary's freshmen and soph­omores who are undecided about their majors will have an opportu­nity to speak with representatives of the different departments to­night from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in the Regina Auditorium. 
The informal program entitled ''A Major Decision'' is sponsored by the Student Academic Council and the Freshman Office. Refresh­ments will be served. 
Sunshine Promotions Dame Student Union Present 

Special Guest Star 
BOB WELCH 
also CLOVER 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 · 7:30pm NOTRE DAME ACC All Seats Reserved: $7.00 ~ $6.00 On Sale Now at Student Ticket Office and at ACC Box Office 
., 
. ..... }< '_,:.' ~ ·.. ' ..., • .. 
'Monday, March 6, 1978 the observer 
'Hidden Job Market' author: 

Need a job? Don't get smart, get wise 

by Bob Varettonl Senior Staff Reporter 
It's not the best qualified yeople who g ...t iloe J~bs, according to Tom Jackson.. 1 national authority on jobs and .;a~ers who addressed an 
Alumnae weekend 

[Continued hom page 1] . Other members o{ the council ---derived satisfaction from the out­come. Therese Tavis, representa­tive of Badin Hall, stated, "Women at Notre Dame need a role model and people who took the steps we are taking now are really benefi­cial." Sunday brunch allowed the stu­dents and alumnae to continue their discussion in a more informal atmosphere. About 85 students gathered in the faculty dining room at South Dining Hall to talk with the alumnae. At the close of the weekend, Kelly stated, "I think the weekend has been a huge success and a valuable experience for both the students and the alumnae. Hope­fully, the weekend will become an annual event with more people benefiting from it." 
Canal resolutions 
[Continued from page 3] wants. But to ament the tre.-.ties would create a very real risk of rejection by Panama and all the problems we've been trying to avoid." American objections to the trea­ties stem fundamentally from a psychologicalproblem,ac::ording to Wyrough. "Alot of pride is involved," he said. Wyrough pointed out that most opposition to the treaties comes from older Americans, and that "most young people wonder what the fuss is all about." He commented that Ronald Reagan's statement, "We bought it, we built it, we paid for it. It's ours,'' represents well the senti­ments of many Americans. "Some­how the treaties seem to go against the American sense of property value," he remarked. However, the canal will be most secure if the host country is happy with the conditions under which the canal is operated, he stated, adding that problems in the Canal Zone would "create doubt in the minds 
of the 12 to 13 thousand users of the canal, possibly causing them to look for alternative shipping 
routes." 
"We think it would be useful for the Senate to end the debate and approve the treaties as soon as possible," he concluded. 
In a 25-minute question and answer period following the lec­ture, Wyrough fielded questions about the cost of the treaties for 
U.S. taxpayers, military rights of the U.S. in the Canal Zone and the attitude of Panamanians toward the treaties. 
~~ 
after 5:00pm 
Pitcher of Beer Y2pricew/purchaseof large pizza 
CJIIfW (JJf'II'ZA 
&lam 
BBEIDf 
&·015 
dudience of 1'75 last night in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
"Lousy grades? It's okay," Jackson claim,!d. "The jobs go to those who are the most skilled in job finding." 
The number one barrier to successful job hunting, Jackson said, is that "we spend all our attention doing things to avoid being rejected." 
But rejection, Jackson added, is inherent in job competition. He said applicants give up too easily after they get their first few rejections. · 
"There's no shortage of no's," he said. "You're going to get the same number of no's anyway before you get accepted. The way to get through it is not to be afraid to get no's faster." 
Jackson said that often people are willing to settle for something rather than the job they really want. 
"Four-fifths of you are not going to make it in the work world in a 
way  that  will  satisfy  you,"  he  
warned.  
Jackson  began by  askin~  the  

audience to sit back, close their eyes, and define their own "job targets." He asked each person to choose a partner sitting near them to discuss their job objectives. 
Although some people left during this part of the lecture, Jackson continued, using slides, to discuss employer psychology, resumes, interviews and salaries. 


"In the business world, you have to start looking at what the other person is goiug to get out of it. You have to convince the employer that he's going to get more value than cost," he said. 
He added that each person should critique himself, not only for positive qualities, but especially for negative qualities._ 
"Often friends are just people who agree with each other,'' he said. "An<' if one of them is going downhill, the rest are going with him. Then together they complain abutthe rest of-the world.'' 
First know what you want, then try for· a spec1fit'jolHa.a.~~Jfic company that has what you want, Jackson said. He claimed that 85 percent of the available jobs are not advertised. 
"The first thing to know about resumes, " he said, "is that nobody cares about your crummy resume." He added that a "perfect" resume might not help much, but that a bad resume could destroy any opportunity that exists. 
Jackson advised that every resume be sent out with a cover letter. "It takes the resume out of the junk mail category," he noted. "You will tend to get back from a firm the same level of communica­tion you send out to a firm." 
"It's stupid to go into an interview not knowing something about the employer," he conti­nued. 
Jackson noted the importance of clothing, during an interview or at work. "You look successful and people start to assume you're already there. Then you start to think you're already there," he said . 
"You know how I got to be an expert in this field?" he added. "I told people I was an expert.'' 
In salary negotiations, Jackson said it is important "you make the employer realize that you're a powerful person with other 
options.'' "Mick Jagger gets $175,000 for one performance. You know why? 
Because  he  won't  work  for  
Sl74,000," he noted.  "It's all  a  
game,'' he concluded.  

Jackson is the author of the book, The Hiddt>n Job Market. He has 
-also published training manuals, workbooks, and articles on man­power and employment. His lecture was sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commis­sion. 
A ten page outline of Jackson's program, "Guerilla Tactics in the Job Market," will l)e available in the Notre Dame Placement Bureau by Wednesday. 
Volunteers needed 
--Teaching as!':tstants and leaders seeking students to give their time The Volunteer Services Office is 
in activities for children with in the following volunteer oppor­
learning disabilities are needed. tunities: --Persons are needed to read to the --Tutors are needed to assist 10 blind, and a blind law student people released from courts or needs transportation to and from reformatories in the areas of basic campus. reading, math and spelling. 
--Activity leaders and volunteers 
--Volunteers are needed to work for are needed at the Fountain View­
the South Bend Hotline. 
Nursing Home. 
--A companion is needed for a 12 For more information, call Jheyear old boy in a body cast. 
Volunteer Services Office at 7308.
Compensation is offered. 
College of Arts & conjunction with the Medieval Institute 
presents 

The College of Arts and Letters, in with the Medieveil Institute, announces presentation of an unusual new film series. Seven internationally 
acclaimed, award winning films depid the vitality, color and life of Medievil times as interpreted by 
man 

distinguished rmdem diredors, adors and artists. Everyone is welcome. 
March .6 

The Virgin Spring lgmar Bergman 
Bergman fills our eyes with highly contrasting black and white to evoke an imaginative medieval world, suggesting the battle of Christianity and paganism. 
March 13 King Lear Peter Brook 
Mard'l16 Kwaidan (Ghost Tales) 
Masaki Kobayashi 
AprillO 

Day of Wrath 
Cart Dreyer 
April 3 The Confessions of Amans 
April6 
Lancelot 
DuLac 
April 17 King Henry V 
NO ADMISSION <HARGE 

films in the Engineering 7 & IOPM 
Gregory Nava 
Robert Bresson 
l.aurenc:e Olivier 

.. 

The Candidates' Final Say.: 
McKenna -Roohan Blanco -Ewing Schlageter Rizzo 
• 
Ourtideas encompass a wider range of interests than 
any of the other candidates' do. The McKenna-Roohan 
ticket is the only ticket to bring forth proposals for 
off-campus students, development of leadership workshops, 
and furthering the ideals of coeducation. In addition, our 
platform includes proposals for: Broadening the role of the 
Campus Life Council (CLC); the initiation of a Career 
Development Center; and immediate action on the 
University security proposals, rather than running another 
investigation with another committee. These last ideas have 
been included in the platforms of other candidates, but have 
not been researched and 1 explored I to) the . • extent that 
they have been by the McKenna-Roohan ticket. 
The two ideas which The OIHierver questioned from our 
platform are the proposals on the Third World Conference 
and the Council of Communication. With respect to the 
Third WorldConference'The Observer interviewers failed to 
ask either Mike Roohan or myself a single question as to the Conference'sorganization. 1 The propoSal for the Third World Conference has been something that I have personally researched for a long time. 
My research has met with favorable responses from the 
Department of Economics all the way to Fr. Hesburgh. In 
re~ponse to The Observer's argument that the "housing·and 
k .·rling of 50-60 delegates alone would be a tremendous 
pruJ<:Ct. '· we would like it to be known that the Center for 
Continuing Education holds a number of conferences 
throughout the year, at which 200­
300 people are in attendance. I have worked at the CCE for 
the last year-and-a-half and have seen that the organization 
of an event such as the Third World Conference would be 
much easier than The Observer thinks. Leadership 
conferences are held around the country each year and they 
are always at the expense of those who come. 
The second issue that The Observer has shown discontent 
with was the idea of developing a Council of Communication 
(modeled after the class advisory councils). Instead of being 
an "unnecessary duplication of the roles of the hall councils 
and the HPC," we feel that such a body will serve to 
alleviate many of the extraneous duties of a hall president. 
As Mike sees the present situation, the HPC is many times 
bogged down with announcements and discussion that could 
be handled by someone other than a hall president. This 
council would free the HPC to place more time and 
emphasis on the development of leadership abilities and the 
solving of daily problems. 
In The Observer's words, "We feel that McKenna-Roo­han's experience and records in campus leadership indicate they can implement successful programs." However, the widt range of proposals brought forth by the McKenna­Roohan ticket are well-defined, well-researched, and well within the capabilities of a student body president and vice-president whose dedication, intensity, and experience will result in the development of a Student Government that is attentive to the needs of the individual 
The following groups have endorsed the McKenna­Roohan ticket by majority votes of their memberships: 
Howard Hall Council 
Officers of Pi Sigma Alpha, the government honor society 
Junior Class Officers 
Officers of the ND Boxing Club 
Officers of the ND Ski Team 
Officers of the ND Rugby Football Club 
Editors of the Morrissey Hall Newspaper 
Officers of Carroll Hall 
St. Ed's Hall Council 
Junior Advisory Council 
Cavanaugh Hall Council 
Sophomore Class Officers 
Executive Officers of the Walsh Hall Council 
Fisher Hall Council 
Executive Officers of Holy Cross Hall 

A good Student Government requires three elements: dedicated people, original ideas, and a broad understanding of the problems that affect Notre Dame students. 
Our experiences in hall and campus government show that we are hard-working and dedicated. Carey has worked on the Farley Hall Council, the Junior Parents' Weekend Committee, and the Mardi Gras Committee; she has also been continually active in Student Government and the Student Union. I am a member of the Morrissey Hall Council. the Groundskeepers' Rights Coalition, the ad-hoc Faculty Sen.ate Committee on Student-Faculty Relations, and the Netghborhood Study Organization. I also have worked on the du Lac revisions and have fought to amend the new Student Government Constitution. 
Our platform, encompassing the broadest range of issues of the three tickets, shows that'our ideas are original and our propo~als unique. Of the sixteen points in our platform, the followmg eleven are unique to the Blanco-Ewing ticket. 
Notre Dame needs a new activities complex to ~ompl~ment LaFort':me. We have begun research, mclu?mg cost a~alysts, availability of funds, and probable locatton, for thts long-range proposal. We are also concerned with short-range proposals to meet the immedi­ate needs of the students, such as lighting the Stepan basketb~ll ~ourts, resurfacing the .tennis courts by Carroll Hall: brtngmg more.cul~ural films to campus, keeping open the hnes of commumcattons between students and -Student Government by writing a bi-weekly column for The Observer, and giving students more skating time in the ACC. 
We will improve academic life by extending the limit on the. pass-fail option to three weeks, and instituting an opttonal morning-evening exam policy. We will also encourage smokers and informal conferences and lectures promoting more student-faculty interaction. ' 
With last semester's du Lac revisions, students were taken out of Notre Dame's judicial process. We want to see them put back in. We will work to increase the hall J-board voice in examiningparietals violations. 
Earlier this semester, the Student Government adopted a new constitution which, although necessary, has several weak points. We will amend this constitution ~akin~ the Students Government more representative by mcludmg more elected officers. We will also concretely define the role of the University Judicial Council, now only vaguely outlined in the new constitution. 
We have also confronted the issues with which all the candidates in this election are concerned. We will work to provide more social space in campus residence halls and to tmprove campus security. We will promote awareness of world social problems by working with CILA ~nd the Center· ~or ~xperiential Learning to organize workshops for social JUSttce. and by formin~ a University Employee Advocacy Counctl. And we wtll publish a teacher and course evaluation booklet each semester. 
. The Blanco-Ew~ng New Perspective offers a comprehen­stve platform to tmprove student life at Notre Dame. It demonstrates our understanding of the problems affecting Notre Dame students and our willingness to work diligently for their solutions. 'We offer not vagueness, but concrete proposals. We offer not modesty and resignation, but the 
boldness  to  fight  for  change.  We  offer  not  political  
maneuvering  and  favoritism,  but  candid  and  impartial  
representation  of  all  Notre  Dame  students.  we  offer  

originality, practicality, and the conviction that, through hard work, changes will be made. 
The Blanco-Ewing Endorsement Polley 
The New Perspective believes in working closely with all student clubs and organizations. We did not solicit endorsements sine~ they cannot possibly reflect the opinions of all the members of any student club or organization. We have also asked The Observer not to p~blish the endorsements it receives for the Blanco-Ewing ticket, and to refer the parties wishing to endorse us to us. 

(2) 1973 Notre Dame slipped past Alabama 24-23. 
(3) 1975 Again. Notre Dame 
edged Barna 13-11. 
(4) 1976 In a foreign land known 
as Indiana. Alabama fell 21-18.
~P.O. BOXQ~ 
(5) 1978 Finally. after all the bowl games were played. Notre Dame was voted number one in the nation and Barna number two. But. deep down in our hearts we still
'Barna to ND: 
feel our team is first in the nation. If you decide to accept the challenge to a sit-up marathon,
sit-up or shut-up 
contact your local American Cancer 
Oeu Editor: 
We the students of the Universit} of Alabama hereby challenge the University of Notre Dame; it is our goal to help defeat the two number ones at the same time. 
In an attempt to redeem our misfortunate final ranking in the polls, and in an effort to help con<.}uer the nation's most dreadful disease, the University of Alabama challenges the University of Notre 

Chairman. Ed Stark. 234-4097. Dame to "Sit-up for Cancer." 
Jeff LevltetzTo make the competition fair, The University of Alabama Student one student from Alabama will go Body
against five students from Notre Dame. We arrived at the number "five" because that is the number of times Alabama has come out on 
False 
the wrong end of the deal: (1) 1966 Alab.una went ll-0 
representation
during the n::gular season; how­Dear Editor:

ever, Notre Dan,c W<!S awarckd the The article describing the 140­
nat.ional champioHslnp. 
While the proposals of the Mike Schlageter-Jayne Rizzo ticket have been characterized as "more modest" than those of other SBP-SBVP tickets, we believe that our platform, moreso than any other, specifies the means by which we can effectively implement our campaign promises. 
It would be wrong, however-, to assume that the entire range of our ticket's plans and ideas have been amply represented on the single type-written page we are forced to present as "our campaign platform." At the risk of establishing a somewhat less ambitious, less radical platform, the Schlageter-Rizzo ticket has outlined only those proposals for which it has concrete methods of implementa­tion. 
As we have stressed throughout our campaign, the goal of the Schlageter-Rizzo ticket is an increased student participation in Student Government. It is our belief that SG should go directly to the students; it should seek out student response. 
Consequently, we believe in the necessity of monthly forums held in alternating north quad-south quad dorms. By holding each session in accessible location and organizing each according to a specific theme (e.g., the problems of campus security), the forums should be well-attended and informative. The opportunity for students to question such forum speakers as the director of security or the dean of students might allow for the possibility of change as well as a mutual understanding between students and administration. In a further effort to increase student input, our administration would encourage students to call in suggestions with the assurance of our personal reply within 48 hours. 
To solicit input from the siziable number of students living . throughout the South Bend area, we propose enlargmg the Off-Campus Commission to include represen­tatives from Campus View, Notre Dame Apartments, Turtle Creek and neighborhood homes. Also slated is an increased cooperation with the Northeast Neighborhood Organization. 
In addition, we intend to appoint at least one off-campus student to our proposed Security Advisory Board. 
Through such measures as monthly forums and the Security Advisory Board, the Schlageter-Rizzo platform provides for a direct line of communication between students and University administrators, thus omitting the bureaucratic red tape which students have traditionally encountered in their attempts to bring about change. We are individuals who have researched the issues, who have experience with the workings of Student Government and Student Union. We post a platform that promises only what it can deliver. Most importantly, we arc a ticket which, if 
elected, would reach out instead of sitting back. 
The foUowing groups have endorsed the Schlageter-Rizzo ticket by IIU\Jorlty votes of their memberships: 
Editorial Board of The Observer Grace Hall Council 


up is its failure to recognize justpound division of the Bengal Bouts how he got to be "a brilliantin the March 2 Observer, wrote defensive as well as offensiveabout two fighters--but both fight­artist." Tony is a humble boxerers were falsely represented. For who enjoys performing the sportmyself, Walt Rogers, I am not out well. And he does it well, to sayto "even the score" with anyone. 
the least. Yet his real merit lies in Every bout that I participate in is his hard work and dedication to thethe utmost in challenges. And I club. He trains as hard as anyone in respect any and all opponents. 
the program, yet he always find the · The article began by saying the time to help those of us who need a 
140-pound division "should" be a few pointers. Tony is a tribute to rematch between myslef and Tony the Boxing Club--and indeed, he is Ricci. I cannot express how a champ. So if you want to see hard contingent the word "should" is. 
work and good sport, come to the For that matter, each fighter in the Bouts. You may get a chance to division "should" be in the finals see this Italian who thinks he can 
or else he wouldn't have undergon~ grow a mustache. the training. 
Walt Rogers 
With respect to Tony Ricci, the other boxer written up in the article, he did not participate in the Editor's Note: When the author Golden Gloves Boxing in Roches­states that one boxer Is out to ter. He did box in high school, "even the score," that's just a though, and I'm sure Tony partici­sports p;-presslon and a way to pated extensively in that boxing generate Interest In the event. program. My biggest disappoint­Nothing vindictive was m,eant or ment with regard to Tony's write should be read Into the artide. 


,..........,...,.._................................................._...........~...,.. .......~_........................_.........~..........................................................._..._... Monday, March 6, 1978
\ _ _ _ the observer ~ 
l · A girl back from the dead I
l by fr. bill tooheyl 
i ~ i "God made man because He loves What I'm saying is this: When we are became an object of interest for man. But tion1began to take place.To the degree she ~ i stories." born, we are no• thereby automatically this was just the problem: she was merely allowed the power of his friendship into her ~ [ EUe Wiesel alive. We begin the process of either an object, a source of entertainment. life, she began to blossom as a person. Her i J coming alive or of being entombed. From Eventually, she felt the only way she could rough, vulgar language got cleaned up: she 1 \ 1received an unusual note from a friend the very first moments of our existence, we survive was to withdraw into herself. became more concerned about personal ~ i one Easter. The stationery unfolded into a are being affected constantly by one of And then one day in the summer she appearance; and, more importantly, a new ~ \ long single sheet, and running along the other of two forces, either the creative met, quite by chance, a young graduate inner light began to show. [ r left-hand margin were footprints. The force of love or the crushing force of unlove student from the University of Chicago, The young man wasn't just playing 1 
l young lady from whom 1 received the (what Camus called the plague). From that who was working in the ghetto as part of social worker: he was truly interested, he ~ i communique explained that these, for her, first instance we are either affirmed or his field experience in social studies. His cared, he gave himself. In her responses to \i were the footprints of Jesus walking away denied in our relationships with one background had been much different from his gift of friendship, she was led to ever • r from the tomb on Easter. In the course of another. Consequently, the tomb is a very hers: He had grown up in surroundings of more involving commitments and acts of l the letter, she extended to me an Easter definite threat in this life. We either need Jove and understanding and trust; and, confidence and trust. It became veryi wish--one of the nicest I've ever received. to be rescued from it or, if we've been consequently, he was a loving, warm painful; for she eventually found herself \ She said: "I hope you discover empty lucky enough to escape it so far, to re~ain person. When he saw her, he greeted her forced to turn away from all her old ~ tombs all the days of your life." free from its trap. with a friendly smile, but she gave him one convictions and attitudes ... the way she \ She explained what she meant by this. If Perhaps a story v:ill help. This is the of those if-looks-could-kill glances in thought she had to be for survival. 
• 
I were to be the kind of person she thought story of a girl from the inner-city Chicago. return. This didn't put him off, however, In a real sense, she came out of thei I wanted to be, it would mean that I had She never knew her father; whoever he and he continued to say hello when he saw tomb. At the end of that summer he toldi really entered other people's lives in such a was, he was never married to her mother. her day after day. At first, she just her how deeply he cared for her. In so \ way that they were touched and lifted. She lives with her mother, but has never glowered at him, but little by little his doing, he forced the issue. She was 

• 
rescued and freed from whatever was known a mother's love. Nor did it take long warmth and openness began to penetrate brought to a brink. If she acknowledgedi holding them back from authentic life. So to discover the truth about the long series her shell. She chanced a nod, then a day or that she, too, cared that deeply for him. } that, consequently, I should be able to of "uncles" who periodically stayed with so later, a mumbled "Hi." She thought he she would be openin_g herself to thei observe empty tombs as a testimonial to them. probably was going to turn out just like the possibilities of rejection (and there had 


the fact that people had been raised from G other men she had known, even though he already been so many in the past); but,
[ rowing up in this kind of jungle,
J the dead and brought to a greater life was more subtle and his tactics more after a torturous struggle, she took the step 
[ surrounded by bitterness and contempt,
J through the force of the relationship we the girl quickly built up a hard shell of )ow-key. and surrendered her heart in honest \ had had. self-defense. In the beginning, she had But he was simply a good man whose acknowledgement of her feelings. It was i I have thought a lot about what she said, opened herself to others--she had hoped heart had gone out qmte spontaneously like dying: she abandoned everything, yet 1 and now I'm beginning to wonder if we and trusted--but she soon found out the with u idng and compassion. She felt richer for it. She had come back from 
~ haven't had things changed·around in our the dead. Quite a story! No wonder God
[ h d hard way that she was just asking for couldn't believe he was honestlyinterested t . S . S . J"k th t
J thinking. We presume t at we spen our in her, just for herself; but she began to 1oves s ones. tones. tones 1 e a . 
whole life walking toward the tomb, but heartbreak. People were out to get what h Stories like yours and mine, not too unlike 
· t t d J · th 1 ope against hope it might somehow be
ld 1 opposite. We spend our whole life walking and if you let them they'll use you. As she with that other story He loves --the one ~ away from the tomb. advanced in her teens, for example, she Then a strange, marvelous transforma-called Easter. 
ir I'm speculating now that it's just the they cou • meres e on Y m emse ves, true. the girl's. Maybe, too, it's the similarity 
i 
,

·!New Keenan Reuiew: one more trme by rosemary mills 
i 

As the lights dimmed and the stage band tah;;nt. A few mistakes only served to ~ slid into the opening bars of "S~rangers in remind the crowd that these were students, ~ the Night," the second annual Keenan not professional entertainers, who could 


Revue opened. An expectant audience that not devote all of their time to rehearsal. 
packed the aisles and balcony provided the For the most part, however, there were noti first joke of the night as Smith asked that mistakes --only a talented presentation ~ the No Smoking signs be observed and that made for a thoroughly enjoyable 
then continued with "If oxygen should be evening. 

~ OBSERVER 
~ 
necessary..." Terrv Smithkept the. show 
i 
FlATUliS
moving smoothly, providing amusement ~ between acts and introducing each act i enthusiastically. • 

i Smith, however, was not the only 
Years from now, when members of the 
comedian on stage. Mike (Spike) Scott class of '78 look back on their Senior 
often intervened either during or between 

Formal with fond memories, they can also ~ acts with his own brand of humor. Scott recall with pride that ''We did it our way.'' 
\ Chicago:
i parodied Shakespeare with a soliloquoy on That's the theme this year for the stylish"To Book or Not to Book", and expounded affair to be held at the Conrad-Hilton of
\ 

his own philosophy with an interpretation Chicago on April 22. The bids, which [
~ of the "Desiderata", entitled "Deterio­include favors, dinner and dancing will go J "Whenever is
i rata". misfortune your on sale at $40 a couple on Wednesday, i ~ lot." Scott announced, "remember it could the March 8 and can be purchased from 1-4:30 i 
only be worse in South Bend." . p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom at ND and [i Commercials for such products as Mas­' in LeMans Hall at SMC. A S10 deposit will J ~ sengale Disposable Jockey Shorts and be accepted, the balance being paid before i 
\ Debby Boone's Greatest Hits from K-Tel the deadline of April 14. ~ 
were well received by the audience. There An unforgettable evening is in store for [~ was also a truer version of the WRBR final aJI beginning with cocktails served from li commercial with KC Rogers announcing the cash bar at 7 p.m. and dinner at 8. J i that "We at WRBR know you like to hear After this delicious chicken repast, a ~ 
good music and frankly we couldn't care magnum of champagne will open at 9. \
~ 

less because we know there are about three "After Five" will be one of the two groups ti radio stations in this area." ~ing entertaining the Formal crowd until2 a.m. J 
~

. 
The comedy was not contained to A tuxedo service, flower service, as well i 
individuals, but extended into musical acts as a package photo deal are all available
~ 
as well. Joe Gill gave a newer version of from the Senior Formal Colllmittee.
i "Trouble in River City" warning of trouble 

Chairman Mary White welcomes any ~ 
volunteers and asks that they call her at
at Notre Dame, "With a capital t and that i #6968 or Cathy Heckman at 222-7678.
rhymes with g and that stands for girls!" 
Another song transformed by talented 
~ 
residents of Keenan Hall was "Camelot." ~ "Cramlot" noted humorously the horrors of "sleepless all-night studying."
i 
More serious music was presented by
} 
the Keenan Octet: Bill Shaughnessy on the ~ piano; Renard Gueringer; the Klee Bro­i thers; Rich Pugliese; and Mike Kammer­
deiner and many others. Keenan rector R.
i 
Rich Conyers also added his talent to thei group. 
~ Smith introduced the Klee Brothers as "easily the most professional amateur
~ 
act I've seen." In my opinion thisi compliment could be extended to the entire \ show presented this past weekend in 
Washington Hall.

i c
The talent of the student was as Qli diversified as the students themselves. "'c 
Ill
i Kevin Paulson tap danced to "I Can Do 

i :r: 
l 
That" from A Chorus Line; and Lawrence McCarthy, Bill Straccia, and Eric Bauwens delighted the audience with a juggling act. For the second year, members ofi Keenan Hall have thrilled the Notre "' Q Dame-Saint Mary's community with a 0
i ..c
show that deserves as much praise for its c.
i SeA-tOOL DANCE, ff\AY8E '?
originality and ingenuity as it does for its 


I 
Hua Kuo-feng re-elected Communist Chairman 
TOKYO [AP)-China's parliament re-elected Communist Chairman Hua Kuo-feng as premier yester­day, solidifying his hold at the top of the Peking hierarchy as both polit:cal and administrative leader of this world's most populous nation. 
Hua. 57, apparently outmanu­vered Vice Premier Teng Hsaiao­ping for the job as head of government, proving himself a wily and successful political in-fighter. In the process he has establisheo himself as successor to both ·":.o Tse-tung and Chou En-lai, the t.-o great :caders of Chinese commun­ism. 
Monsignor Ellis 
to receive award 
The University of Notre Dame announced last Friday that Mon­signor John Tracy Ellis, the dean of historians of American Catholi­cism, will receive the University of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 1978. 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh com­l~lCfllcd, "For almost a century, the Lactare Medal has been given to those American Catholics who made outstanding contributions to the life of our nation. We honor today an elder statesman of Ameri­can Catholicism, an historian who has spent his fife chronicling the achievements 'lf ma:~y who pre­ceded him in this distinction, a teacher, scholar and author who has exemplified the best in the intellectual tradition of the church.'' 
Msgr. Ellis, currently teaching on a post-retirement appointment at the Catholic University of Amer­ica in Washington, D.C., is only the second clergyman to receive the Laetare Medal.· It was not until I%8 that eligibility for the tradi­tionally lay honor was opened to clergy and religious, and Fr. John 
A. O'Brien, a well-known author, received it in 1973. 
The teaching career of the 72­
yenr-old church historian began in 
19~0 at St. Viator. After two years 
there and two years at the College 
of St. Teresa in Winona, Ainn., 
Msgr. Ellis joined the faculty of 
Catholic University, where he was 
a major influence on three decades 
nf graduate students who now staff 
-.chools and colleges across the 
c:ountry. A lively and interesting 
lecturer, he has been a visiting 
nrofessor at Notre Dame and 
Jrown University in this country 
and the Gregorian University in 
Rome. 
Msgr. Ellis has also been recog­
nized widely for his research 
.rholarship. His most esteemed 
\ork is probably his two-volume 
· fhc Life of James Cardinal iibbons. Archbishop of Balti­nore," published in t%2 and a 1asic work for anyone studying late '9th or early 20rh Century Ameri­;·n (.':ttholici~m. His Walgreen ~ttl .re·; at the l1niversity of Chi­~ago. published hy that Univer­
•iry's press in 1956 as "American :atholicism." continue to comprise nc of the most popular histories of ·he Church in America. "The Formative Years of the Catholic Univeristy of America," published ·n 1946, remains the best work on he foundation of that institution, .nd "A Guide to American Catholic .listory," published in 1959, is the 
\landard bibliography in its area. 
His landmark 1955 essay, "American Catholics and the Intel­lectual Life," is credited with spurring Catholic colleges and seminaries across the country to higher educational standarr!s. Msgr. Ellis has also served as editor of the Cathoilic Histflrical Review and as president of both the American Catholic Historical Asso­cill.tion and the American Society of Chf:lrch History. Among his honM­arv doctorates is an LL.D. from N<rtn:-Dame in 1957. 

Pt.-tOng's Great Hall ofthe People steam into the frive toward econ­Hua began the voting by drop­The congress also adopted a new " :ane with cheers and there was a omic modernization of China, a ping the fi•·st ballot into a red box, national anthem. The previous 
pr:>longed 'Wation" after Hua was national effort launched by Hua, followed by Yeh, Teng and the anthem fell into disfavor during the chosen premier at the .::lo!'.ing Teng and their "pragm?.tist'' al­other two party vice-chairmen, Cultural Revolution of the late session of the fifth National t>eo­lies. Hsinhua reported. It said the vote 1960;s. 
ple's Congress, the official n.!ws was unanimous, endorsing the agency Hsinhua reported in a Teng chaired the final session of party central committee's choice of Though Teng failed to become dispatc·.• rrceived here. the congress and hailed it as "a Hua. premier, he remains No. 3 leader in meeting of unity, a meeting of the country as second vice chair­
But Teng, 73, did not come away victory." Though there had been The news agency said the closing manofthe party, behind Yeh. The empty-hand~d. He and his old­signs he put up a fight for the session of the weeklong congress, other two vice chairmen are Li 
guard military revolutiomry allies premiership, it would have been which met for the first time in three 
Hsien-nien and Wang Tung-hsing. put two of their men into key unthinkable in Chinese politics for years, adopted a new constitution positions. him to openly dissent. replacing a 1975 document, but few 
details were revealed. Defense Minister Yeh Chien­ying, 81, was named to head the ..,._---College Gradua~ ---­congress' standing committee, and Marshal Hsu Hsiang-ehien, 76, 
All Majors. Start using your education and 
was chosen to take over at Defense. 
training without the years of menial chores expected of most starting positions. This is an
HL•a, who had been premier by party appointment for· almost two 
opportunity to take charge of a highly trained staff 
years, left most of his cabinet 
of young people right away. Only those 
intact. But a shakeup in the seven 
interested in advancement, challenging oppor­
divisions of the important Ministry 
tunities and fantatstic benefits need apply. Call 
of Machine Building-only tow of 
312-657-2234 for an interview. We are a DOD,
seven ministers kept their jobs-sig­
EOE organization. 
naled a determination to put new 



OVERs650AMONlH RIGHTTHROUGH 

SENIORYEAR. 

If you're a junior or a senior majoring in math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­Collegiate Program (NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. And at the end of the year of training, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. ­
It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training program. With unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs in·private industry·should you decide to leave the Navy later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) · 
Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus on March 8, or contact your Navy representative at 312-657-2169 (collect) . If you prefer, send your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312-B468, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The NUPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help youfinish college: itcan lead to an exciting career opportunity. 
NAVYOFRCER. 

IT'S NOTJUSTAJOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. 



Monday, March 6, 1978 the observer 
,­
, ~ Win a Cessna Airplane
, 
,, Plus Free Flying Lessons 
I Natural presents this up-in-the-air contest just for the fun of it. Here's all you do: Fold, Crimp, Lick and Tape this ad or other paper into any­thing that flies in accordance with the Official 

Rules. Then, send it to us. The Grand Prize is a Cessna 152 II Airplane plus free flying lessons (Up to 40 hours). Our runner up prize of a 
free flying lesson will be awarded to all finalists. And, the first 5000 entries will receive an official contest patch. Get flying, you could win. 
Greatest Distance Wins The Cessna 
Special A wards To Most Original, Most Attractive, And Maximum Time Aloft At The National Fly-Off 
100 finalists will be chosen on the basis of farthest distance flown. From these finalists, the Grand Prize Winner will be selected at a National Fly­
Off judged by a panel of experts to be named later. Bonus Awards: At the National Fly-Off all finalists will also be judged in such categories as most original design, most attractive and duration of flight. These category winners will receive special recognition awards. 
Quick. Get your entries in today. Then relax, take a "Natural Break", we'll notify you if you're a winner. 
To Enter Complete The Following And Mail (See Rule #1 for contest address) 
YourName ________________________~--­
Address __________________ 
City ______State___Zip____ 

Jlllllllll
D
...... 
Mfufal 
./jg/Jl 
To learn more about learning to fly, call toll free 800-447-4700 (In Illinois call800-322-4400 and ask for the Cessna Take-Off operator. 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 
\ 
\ \ 
\ 
\ 
\ \ 
Official Rules 
l'lo Purchase Necessary To Enter Here's All You Do ... 
• 
1. Construct a fixed wing paper airplane which sustains flight solely by use of aerodynamic forces, with a total length and wing span of no more than 60", clearly print your name and address on a visible part of it, and mail (please wrap securely) in a folded, ready to fly condition to: \ 
The Anheuser-Busch Natural Light \ Paper Airplane Contest \ 
P.O. Box 8404 \ Blair, Nebraska 68609 \ 
2. 
Winners will be selected solely on the basis of farthest straight line distance achieved between point of launch and point of nose impact. There will be only one launch per entry. f< .1ter as often as you wish, but each entry must be mailed separately. 

3. 
All entries must be received by May 15, 1978. 

4. 
Paper airplanes may have ailerons, rudders, elevator.:. or tabs, but we will make no adjustments to them. The only acceptable materials to be used in construction are paper and cellophane tape. 

5. 
All airplanes will be launched by hand only. If there are any special instructions regarding launchil)g such as the angle of attack and force (hard, medium or soft) of launch. please print them clearly on a visible portion of your paper airplane -arJ(1 the judges will attempt to follow them. 

6. 
Preliminary judging to select·~he farthest flying 100 paper airplanes will be conducted in an indoor location by the 


D.L. BLAIR CORPORATION, an independent judging organization. \ 
7. 
The top 100 farthest flying airplanes (the Finalists) will be flown \ again indoors to select the farthest flying paper airplane using the \ same criteria as stated above. Selection of a winner will be made by a \ distinguished panel of judges who will be named later, under the \ direction of the D.L. BLAIR CORPORATION. \ 

8. 
Bonus prizes of Special Recognition Awards will be awarded to \ finalists in the following categories: \ 


A. Most original design \ 
B. Duration of flight (maximum time aloft) ' 
C. Most attractive (overall appearance of design, and color of \ paper airplane) . . :... \ Selection of bonus prize winners will be made by a distinguished ' panel of judges, under the direction ofthe D.L. BLAIR CORPORATION. ' 
9. 
In the event of ties, duplicate prizes will be awarded. DECISION OF THE JUDGES IS FINAL. · 

10. 
Contest is open to residents of the contiguous 48 Continental United States who ai:e of legal age for the purchase and consump· tion of alcoholic beverages in the State of their residence, except 


employees and their families of Anheuser-Busch, Inc., their affi· liates, agents, wholesalers, retailers and the D.L. BLAIR CORPORATION. This offer is void wherever prohibited by law. Winners will be notified by mail. All Federal, State and local laws 
and regulations apply. All entries become the proiJerty of Anheuser-Busch, Inc., and will not be returned. 
11. For a list of the top 100 winners, send a stamped self-addressed envelope to: "Paper Airplane Winner's List," P.O. Box 9027, Blair, Nebraska 68009. Do not send this request with your entry. 


,.: 


Monday, March 6, 1978
10 the observer 

Crossword puzzlers gather 
STAMFORD• CONN. [API-What would you call an "expert bookie?" 
If your answer is "The Wizard of Odds" you probably share a pas­sion with 161 persons gathered here over the weekend -to solve crossword puzzles. 
For two days of pencil-bending competition against the clock, the men and women, ranging in age form 15 to 69, sought to prove their puzzle prowess in ''The First Annual American Crossword Puzz­le Tournament." 
When the last blank square had been filled in, the female contin­gent, who outnumbered the males by about 3-to-2, had scored a clean sweep. 
Nancy Schuster of Queens, N.Y., captured the first prize of $125; Eleanor Cassidy of Fairfield, Conn. took second and $50; and Murray Leavitt of Pound Ridge. N.Y., won $25 for third. 
The competition consisted of four puzzles Saturday afternoon and another yesterday morning, with the contestants seated at partition­ed tables in a hotel meeting room. Over them loomed a large clock 
JOrrowed from a local high school's swimming pool. 
They worked in almost oppres­sive silence, filling the room with cigaret smoke. 
Occasionally the soft voice of the chief referee, puzzle expert Will Shortz of Stamford, would interrupt the stillness with admonitions such as, "Five minutes to go." 
Aptitude at word plays such as to "gather salary intelligence" -10 across in the second puzzle -turned out to be "Nose Through the Pay." 
Alsight at an Aspen infirmary?" "Thousands of Casts," of course. 
Yesterday morning's puzzle had a verse running through it that came out this way: "When a studio head in Belair was told by a vamp in his lair, 'Don't give me anymore brandy, just a contract that's dandy,' he speedily gave her the air." 

The competitors had an hour to tackle that puzzle. When they received their blank forms at the start of the hour, there was a short message at the top: "A clever five line verse waits here. We wish you had time to savor it." 
The Stamford Marriott Hotel, which sponsored the event, said it was believed to be the first of its kind in this country, although it is estimated that as many as SO million Americans work crosswords at least occasionally. 
"It's great,'' said the youngest entrant, 15-year-old Mike Miller of New York City, a puzzle prodigy of sorts, who teaches a course in the subject at New York's New School. 
"Puzzlers hardly ever get a chance to get together, and there are so many of us." 
Ethiopia claims Ogaden victory; Somalis say Soviet troops used 

IAPI· Ethiopia claimed yesterday its '·'rces recaptured the strategic
,,,..,n of Jijiga from Somali-backed 
.,cccssionist rebels in the embattled Ogaden desert. The Somalis 
<~cnied the report and claimed that ~o\ ict troops had joined Cuban 
units in the attack on the town. In Washington, Sen. Howard 
Baker, R-Tenn., said he believed the Soviet-Cuban intervention was a move by Moscow to test the will of President Jimmy Carter and it was time for Carter to "draw the line" and make it clear that such actions are not acceptable. 
The Ethiopian Embassy in Lon­don issued a statement saying regular forces and people's militia of Ethiopia had entered Jijiga and were in "total control" of the area "after a fierce battle with the 
Somali invading forces." The Somali troops were comple­
tely wiped out,,, it said, claiming that Ethiopian troops and militia 
"are advancing on all fronts. and 
· soon it will be one victory after 
another over the enemy forces." 
Jijiga is 60 miles west of the Ethiopian-Somalaian border. In Mogadishu, Somalia, the Oga­den rebel group -the Western Somali Liberation Front -said the rebel forces at jijiga continued to withstand the assault and that only Russians and Cubans. not Ethiopi­ans, were seen among the attack­ers. Somalia's ambassador to Britain, :\hmed Mohamed Adan, made the same claim to reporters in London. Independent confirmation of such 
47th Bengal Bouts witness few upsets, no knockouts 
[Continued from page 12) hooks from left field. The first missed; the second didn't, putting Reilly on the canvas and DeCelles in the semifinals with a unanimous decision. Jim Devine pummeled Andy· Rukavina's recently-broken nose ·m his way to a unanimous deci­sion. while John Cotter and Jaime 5tephens scored split-decision vic­wries over Tony Cortese and Mike Gaffney in a pair of close, rugged bouts. Steve Gartrell, staying in tight on the taller Joe Tracy, scored a pair of eight-counts and beat the final ~ell with a thundering right to put away Tracy and earn the unani­mous deicision in the 168-pound class. Glenn Pacek and Mike Pullano fought toe-to-toe in their match, .\ith f>l!llano landing more punches ar:d ~loring nn ddt combinations to \\'in. Terry Rogers used his height/ reach advantage to down Steve ·:::ctehrezzc. hut not before the ,tuhhorn Celebrezze bloodied his face in one of the evening's more free-swinging bouts, rounding out the division. Despite a last-minute rally by Jim Cycon that left him bloody and shaken, Tom Plouff won the split decision in the 175-pound group by virtue of a first-period knockdown. Eric Schmitt used solid eye-level jabs to knock Tom Maher down ·twice in the first round of their 175-pound fight, but Maher came hack to knock Schmitt down in the third with a furious right. Schmitt L·ame back to send Maht'" the canvas once again at _tht: t. .. al bell, 
tinals in the 175-pound division. Flynn largely ignored the left lead, going instead with clusters of rights to Melbinger's head on his way to unanimous decision. 
Freshman Neal Elattrache pounded Mike Restivo in the 185-pound class, while John Dris­coll scored a second-round knock· down to dispatch Jim Whitmer anc advance to the semis in the 195-pound bracket. 
The evening came to an abrupt end at 1: 12 of the second round of the day's only heavyweight bout when Kim Uniacke landed a long right square in the face of Mike Reilly, knocking him into the middle of next week and sending Uniacke to Tuesday night's semifinals. 

battlefront reports from the two sides in the Ogaden has been difficult to obtain . 
"I have just been in touch with Mogadishu and they say the Ethio­pian claim is not true," Adan said. "The Ethiopians are in the habit of making these claims ... 
''Official sources in Mogadishu say Russian and Cuban troops and the forces of the Western Somali Liberation Front are locked in bitter fighting near the town of Babile 
· between Harar and Jijiga," he said. Harar is an Ethiopian fortress 
city and base 40 miles west of • 
Jijiga. 
"Fifteen thousand Cubans, Rus­sians and other forces are reported­ly involved in the fighting. using Soviet-supplied long-range artillery pieces and missiles, Soviet T-555 and T-62 tanks, MiG-21 and MiG-23 aircraft and other sophisticated armaments. The Ethipian role is limited to auxiliary forces and camp followers because the Soviets have not had time to train the Ethiopians to use these weapons," the Somali ambassador said. 
Both the Ethiopian and Somali reports appeared to indicate a resumption of Ethiopia's stalled counter-offensive to reclaim the Ogaden region of southeastern Ethiopia from the rebels, ethnic Somalis who want to annex it to Somali?.. 
The rebels captured most of the Ogaden, including Jijiga, in a drive that started last summer. Most 

Saturda.r & Sunday, c: 11, 12 March 1:00pm ·­­
J: 
C) Callbacks Sun. Mar. 12 -7:00 pm. ::::s 
Materials for auditions available in Speech and CO 
Drama Office, Room 11 o, Moreau Hall, Saint ~ 
Mary's. Open to all NO-St. Mary's Students. 0 
,..J!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.'--~!!!!!!!11 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT •OAT •LSAT •BMAT 

• •OCAT • liT· SAT 1MB I, II, III·ECFMI·FLEX·IQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS flexible Progrems & Hours 
ntneJS• lliffnen&el!t 
For Information Please Call: ~-fl
lCollect MPUI'N West lafayette EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PMPAIIATION 
. Bloo . SHClALISTS SINCE 1938Servmg mingtoB. Indianapolis, South Bend For Locations in other cltie1 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223-1782 Centers In Major US C_ltlea Toronto, Puerto Rico and Luaano, Switzerland 
MCAT, OAT, and LSAT classes now forming. 
------·­

Western observers believe somalia 
has sent ruglar troops to help the r--------------------------o,-:o
rebel WSLF. Somalia denies .· // having sent troops, while acknowl­
edging willingness necessary.  to  do  so  if  
9 Days and S Nights in Florida's Miracle strip. Freshwater Pool, the Wann Gulf Waters, and the Glistening White Sands.  

ALL MAJOR SPORTS 
Free Transportation

ON 7FT T.V. 
Free Entertainment SHAKEY'S Free Party Enroute
SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS 

Free Weiner Roasts on the Beach 5-7:30 MON -TUES -WED Discount IS Hole Golf Course Free Beer Party Happy Hour Daily
Pizza-Chicken· 
Plus Parties on the Beach Every Night
·Spaghetti-Salad 
$21~~~~11if
All You Can Eat 
earning the unanimous decisior. · 
Reserve Your Seat NOW!
the evening's most thrilling fight. 
Contact: Pat O'Connell
Tom Flynn, employing a classic boxing stance, dominated Mike 
283-3556 
Melbi-nger to ady~ ,to..tl,le.s.en)i.-, 
Monday, March 6, 1978 
the observer 11 


At forum Candidates make last stand ~ND press publishes book 

Blanco proposed to replace the anyone, but did not disagree with 
by Mark Perry second undergraduate press in the other five voting members with the the policy to distribute preferential 
Staff Reporter nation, Harvard being the first. presidents of the sophomore, junior tickets. 
Installing lights at Stepan 

Juniper Press, the Notre Dame In selecting the book, Datzma
Basketball courts, revising the man of the freshman advisory explained, "that for preferential 
and senior classes and the chair­"The difference is," Schlageter undergraduate publishing com­said the class solicited manuscrip Student Union Board of Commis­council and maintain the Student tickets, I wouldn't have to stand in 
pany founded last year, has through the papers and personasioners and planning a Third World Union director and treasurer as line to buy them, but I would still 
announced that they are publishing requests by the members of thconference were some of the issues 
aeats, a fictional story about the class to friends. "Manuscriptadvising, but nonvoting members. pay for them." Complementarydiscussed at the final SBP-SBVP Coonameeset War Eagles football came in from all over," Datzma''That way, the all members would tickets are given free of charge. 
forum, held last night in LaFortune 

team, written by George Berry, commented, "from students oRathskellar. and the student body would be Union," Schlageter said, "and 
have campus-wi.de constituencies "Students work hard for Student 
John Geisen, and Ken MacAfee. campus, friends, and from peoplThe three candidated tickets 
better represented when money is preferential tickets are fair com­The authors wrote their story for a in South Bend." The studentsoutlined their platforms and then 
allocated." pensation for some of the ''dirty 
novel writing class at Notre Dame. the clas read as many of thfielded questions from the 70 
work," such as unloading refrige­
Chris Datzman, president of Juni­manuscripts as they could, anpeople present. The forum was Candidates McKenna and Roo­rators, that members do. 

per Press this year, said that the then evaluated each one and dis­moderated by J.P. Russell, chair­han were asked to further explain book would probably be available cussed it with the rest of the class. 

man of the Hall President's Coun­their proposal for a Third World Schlageter and Rizzo have pro­
in the Notre Dame Bookstore Th1 class then assessed each

cil. conference to be held on campus posed a Security Advisory Board, around April 4. She also said they manuscript by several criterion: next fall. "Representatives from and explained its purpose at last are attempting to distribute the how long it would take to finish the The Blanco-Ewing platform calls other campuses would be asked to night's forum. The board would be book to the area bookstores and in writing if it was not yet completed, for plans to install lights at Stepan pay a conference fee," McKenna made up of the director of security, the hometowns of the authors. how much rewriting was necessary,basketball courts. They were asked explained. "This fee would go the Assistant Vice-President for Datzman said they will be print­the length, and marketability.
how this plan would be imple­towards paying the expenses for Business Affairs, a representative ing 1250 copies of the book, 250 Datzman said the· length of themented. "There are no lighted the five or six experts who would be from Student Affairs, and student more than their first book, Quick book will probably be around 100basketball courts on campus. We asked to speak." He also men­and faculty representatives. They As A Dodo, by Notre Dame pages.

think it is important to light the tioned that he spoke with Fr. would evaluate recommendations 

philosopher professor, Ralph
courts as part of our plan to Theodore Hesburgh, University for a better security system and Mcinerny.

improve student life." 

president, who, he said, advocates work to get them implemented. 
Juniper Press is operated and Although most of the students in Blanco mentioned that people h the idea. 
fmanced by the class of Book the class will be graduating this ave asked how can student govern­PubUshlng, an American Studies year, Datzman said if the book sells ment think about lighting the Schlageter and Rizzo were asked A final issue brought before the course headed by Professor Eliza­well before the end of the school courts when lights are needed more about their proposal to coordinate candidates was that of Blanco's beht Christman. Christman year, the class would consider for other parts of the campus. "It Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's proposed evaluation booklet. He believes that Juniper is only the printing a second edition. 

would cost student government student governments. "We would was asked how his booklet would less than SlO,OOO to install lights at like to meet periodically with differ from that presently being Stepan," he said, "but it would representatives from Saint Mary's published by the Scholastic. take over Sl20,000 to install addi­student government to discuss 
Raymond to speak tonight

He e~plained that the book
tional lighting for security, and this mutual problems. such as the is beyond our budget." shuttle," Rizzo states. 

would be compiled by members of He stressed that he would not be the Academic council. It would by Kate NUand discussing careers in business. Blanco was also asked about his utilize the computer print out R th h "d th t h "II b
Vincent Raymond, assoc1"ate a er, e sat a e WI e

proposal to revise the membership Although the two bodies meet course-evaluation sheets which are d" · d · 
of the College of Bus1·ness 1scussmg aca em1c careers.

of the Student Union Board of regularly for dinner at the present distributed to students at the end of dean R d h h 1 
Administration, will speak tonight aymond t e

Commissioners. This board pre­time, she acknowledged, "this each semester, he stated. Student d fr h state h at we ­
to all interested freshmen on the come es men w o are unsure as

sently consists of the Student Body arrangement would be more infor­Government's course evaluation h" h 11 h h d
College and maJ"ors with1"n the tow 1c co ege t ey s out enter.

President and Vice-President, mal, and would be set up to discuss booklet would also include the H h · d f 
· f h college. e emp as1ze the importance o

Student Union director, judicial specific problems. It would open professor's own evaluation o is th 11 · h" h th · d" "d 1
The talk, slated for 7:30 p.m. in ege m w IC ua

coordinator, two members of the the lines of communication e co e m 1v1 
course. Room 122 of the Hayes-Healy student will be most happy.
HPC and the Student Government between the schools." 

Career development proposals, Center, is given as part of the This week materials on the treasurer. The issue of giving preferential as well as parietals, pass/fail and Spotlight Program sponsored by College of Business Administration 
"Only two members of the and complementary tickets to social concerns issues were also the Freshman Year of Studies. will be available in the Learning present board, (the SBP and Student Union and Student discussed. Raymond will discuss the busi-Resource Center. SBVP), are directly elected by the Government members was also ness curriculum and the basic Next week, open house visits to 
student body, and this board has questioned. Both McKenna and The election will be held tomor-aptitudes and interests needed for the different colleges are available the power to allocate and assess all Schlageter stated that it was unfair row. A run-off election, if needed, a major in this area. ~or fre~hmen seeking further student funds." to give complementary tickets to is scheduled for Thursday. mformabon. 
NOTICES LOST: A set of keys in a small black Need ride to Long Island for spring break. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED Haircuts, trims, styles....cheap! SMC * * Gotham City National Balik aniWII pouch -lost March 1st from B-2 parking Call 4-1-4606. COURT CLUB 4530....Betsy. * * stockholders' meeting: Open til sllare-lot to Eng. Bldg. If found call Ella, 7466. Now accepting applications for full time . * * holders and general public. In depth Need ride to Florida March 17th. Call and part time help. Pro. Social Director-Lenten confessions heard M~nd_ay thru * * analysis of financial positian and ques-FOUND: A black ski glove with suede Kathy, 6819. Salary. Nursery attendant, Desk sales, Saturday at Sacred _H~rat begmnmg at 7 * 
* ************************************************************************************** 
* tionlanswer period. Refreshments pr-. palm, right hand. Call1653. staff teaching Professionals --Hourly pm. Anyone w1shmg to make an* * vidad. 11 a.m. Tuesday, March 7, in Need riders to Florida -232-8780 -Phil. wages. 205 w: Edison.....259-8585. appointment for time of confession may* * Room 110 rrf the Business Adninistrltion FOR SALE Leave name and number. phone Campus Ministry ay 6536 or 3820. * * building. Two need ride to Tampa-Clearwater area * * Riders needed to and from Kansas City Desperate for a ride to or near Tallahasse for spring break. 4-5706. Ugly Man is coming. Save your pennies. * * · · br k Sh d ·-d NO JACKET .....Good condition, gold forspringbraak. Willsharadriving,gas, * 
durmg spnng ea · are nv•ng an sleeves. $25.00. Call234-0980. expenses. Call Bill, 8858. Nowisthetimeforall ugliestosavethose * 
expenses. Call Paula. 283-7372 (or leave PERSONALS .
* 

* message). penmes. * 
! Student and faculty entertainers. call Tim ~~~~~~-~~~:~~i~:;~fu~~~~~~-. t~~~~~ g~r~~~~~~eed GA Loyola tickets. Call AA~~!;"mbar: You can only have ONE Dazzling beauty sought! To accompany: Ellison (288_5207) if interested in per-ter speaker. Six months old. $150. 3001. today [I have 1 network of spies at st. handsome NY'er to America Concert. * h p b Need ride to New York, Long Island area, Mary's reporting to me hourly on your Must guess my favoriteAmerica song. * 
* forming at the Good Eart u · Technics SL-23 turntable . Need money for spring break. Call Matt 232-4499. atch out d do 't Transpo provided (porsche). Chris* 
* progress.....so w ......an n 233-4381 before 11 pm. * 
One roomate needed to share Campus for Florida. Call Kurt 287-8698. try to sneak a smoke..•••..ramember: the * 
* 
v· Apt PI 11 277 3509 Psychology reaseach aide. Part Time. walls have ears)

* Jew · ease ca -· Stereo equipment -Major brand dis-Call 287-4785 after 9 pm. · Mark Monika Schwarzler. .. .l love you very * * EVRY STUDENT CAN VOTE IN THE counts on fully guarranteed, factory much. * * MAY INDIANA PRIMARY ......if interes-sealed, auto-videao equipment EUiot Need ride for two to Lauderdale for Mike and Steve -An Admirer * 

* 
ted register before spring break by Enterprises, Pack Court, Buchanon M1ch spring break. Pat 6711. When the team said we are going to You could be she! am stiU looking for ** 


calling Moat 4-1-4001. 49107. CaU Niles (tool free) 683-0121-the "bars" that is not what we meant!! 1 * * Need ride for three to the Big Apple, New Mother Turns the woman of my dreams. My heart is * 
* TYPING. REASONABLE RATES. CALL FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC-York City, for spring break. We can't aching and my body is craving. Find* * 8051 _ TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL8982. afford the train so caU Tom, Doug, or MAYBE 1 WILL BRUCE Buddman in the Arkie basement. *
* John, 3414. * 
* Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, WHY PAY MORE?? Flanner Records has Joe, Joe, Joe, Frances, Mary, Carolyn, * 23Nll46 Hours: 8 am to 6 pm. all $7.981ist lp's for only $5.29. All $6.98 WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English Chrissy Romano. Usa, Bill, Dave, Todd, Mark & Duane * 
* 
list lp's for only $4.59 (plus tax). conversation. No experience, degree or Because the brothers you love are in and others: What mora do I need with * TYPING DONE Flanner records. 322 Flanner. PH 2741. Japanese required. Send long, stamped, different weight classes. 1 hope the friends like you? Thanks for the * * REASONABLE RATES self addressed envelope to : Japan, 181. Bengal Bouts have been EZZER for you. wonderful birthday. * 

* 
CALL8086 WANTED 411 W. Center. Centralia. WA 98531. Your friends love you too. Love, Margaret* * WANTED: Ride home to Florida for * * · th d · b k Call David at 8697 Need four GA tickets to any weekend Doubting lover: Way to go Monica!! You'll make the * * ~~~~;t~on~Jle~~~c:iee mtype:i~e/n spnng rea · · home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. Please believe me-1 won't leave you. greatest Ass. Hall Director. Don't forget *

* 
Reasonable. 232_ _ Ride needed to North Jersey, NYC area Chocolate Malt to invite us to dinner.


5715 * 
* for spring break. Please call Bruce. 3587. OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer-year round ~ Jube, Roo and Ali * 
* Will do typing ... neaL .accurate. Call: positions in Europe, S. America, Austra-. Dear Harry-* 
_ _ MOTORCYCLISTS -interested in riding lia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 Babe Ruth also made 713 home runs. Vagas (Squero) Ferguson, *
* 
287 5162

* to Florida at Easter Break. Tom, monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. What are you doing Friday? Happy 21st (though you are reluctant to * Resumes and personall.zed cover letters. 287-7743. Free information-Write: BHP Co., Box Marie admit it) Birthday! Love, * 
* 
*

Efficient expertise. Robo typed letter 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. '"pal''
*

* service. 2IDJ Mishawaka Ave., Phone Need two Loyola tickets call1043. ,lane p_ and Mike: * 233-2550. Two students need ride to Fort Meyers, Happy Birthday to some "'oldies" but Lucinda, * 
* Two rides needed to Long Island or Fla or vicinity for spring break. Will goodies Happy 20th birthday! :: The Bookie Joint at 100 Center wants to nearby vicinity tor break. Call Jean 8085 share driving and expenses. Call Brian · Sharon Delores ! * help you stretch your book budget. Bring or John, 3470. Will share expenses. 1153. PS: Jane. Who's John? Call * 
Few hours work -Good pay. * your paperbacks lor exchange. Ride needed to Los Angeles over break. WANTED: Need ride to Boston area M. TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO ORDER 233-7949 between 8-2:30. * * Typing done in home. Fst. accurate. Call Debbie 8485. 17. Will share expenses and driving. YOUR CILA T SHIRT. * * c 11 Call Tony at 1436. Dear Vagas: * 
* reasonable. Close to campus. a Ride needed to Ft Lauderdale. Will Aleka, Happy 21st... Maybe now you'll be old * 
272 7866 

* -anytime. share driving and expenses. 6808. Ride needed to Washington DC for Herzlichen Gluckunsche zum Gerbur-enough to wear a nose. * 
* 
NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary spririg braek, prefer Thurs. M. 15. Call stagg!!! Your favorite enemy* * Inc., Professional Typing Service, IBM Give me a "break" -need ride ·to John 8705. Your roomie, Lisa * * correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page. Houston ....Jud 6711. Long live U.D.: the partying Clpltllllf * * minimum. Call 232-{)898 "'When you Ride needed to Long Island area or NYC BELATED HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO PAT· the wor1d. Flannlgan'sls a good ole Irish * * want the best" Ride needed to Orlando or Daytona Beach area. Mike 8889. Tl AND MICHELE!! uubll!!!! * 

* 
areas for spring break. Call Mike at 1403. THE ALUMNI ALLEY Sean Coughlin-* 


LOST AND FOUND Need ride to Texas: Dallas Houston, etc. • su p ** LOST 0 . fr Need ride to Lauderdale spring break. Share driving and expenses. 2747. MAYBE I WONT..... ""'oldnotmwsortl"ryck' {Vperstudou **
dori.to•)aternity su ts
************! 0 1 

: ne pa1r of large amed glasses in Call Mary, Sharon, 7812. BLANCO "" · · · 
* abrowncasenearACC. Whoevercalled **** • RideneededtoNV StateareatorSprlng*
* anbd said they found them-where are Need ride to wash. DC area tor break. .l>o.)_......,.,!_e~_] ads Welco~ home Jane, John, Park, Sarah, Break. Call shaimi 4-l-42lS * 
* they?! Rodcy, 1713. Marice 1312 ~ and Suz1e 1: 
* **+++.++******************lfulc$********************************************************~ 


Monday, March 6, 1978
12 the observer 

Bengal opening sees few upsets 
David O'Keefe Sports W rlter 
Long months of training and fine-tuning fjnally came to fruition Sunday afternoon for the partici­pants in the 47th Annual Bengal Bouts. The first round saw no knockouts and few upsets, but plenty of action nonetheless. 
J.P. Holbrook won the year's first fight, scoring a unanimous decision over Mike Ruwe in the 132-pound weight class. Doug Bor­gatti, runner-up last year in the 125-pound division, had little trouble dispatching Jaime Shreiner in the same division. 
In the 135-pound quarterfinals, all four fights ended in unanimous decisions. Freshman Bob Rivera showed fine style in his victory over veteran Dave Tezza, gliding in and away from Tezza and scoring almost at will. 
Last year's runner-up, Brian 
. 
. . . .. .. ." ., "" 

In the 168-pound weight division, Steve Gartrell [left] stopped the taller joe Tracy by a unanimous decision. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 
%Observer 
Sports 
Weekend Sports Results 
The Notre-Dame wrestling team finished second in the NCAA Midwest Regional Tournament held this past weekend at the Air Force Academy. The University of Northern Colorado captured first with 65 and one half points, followed by the Irish with 49 markers. Drake 
, tinishcd third with 44 points. Three Irish wrestlers in the competition qualified for the finals. Bob Golic at heavyweight, Rob Dreger at 177 pounds and Dave DiSabato at 126 pounds will perform at Maryland on March 16. In additon, Head Coach Ray Sepeta was named Midwest Coach of the Year. 
The Notre Dame fencing team posted four more victories over the weekend, including a hard-fought 18-9 triumph over Wayne State. The 
1 victory boosts the Irish's record to 18-0 on the season and extends 
1 Notre Dame's win streak to 85 matches. 
I 
The Fighting Irish track team defeated Drake this past weekend, 84-47, in a dual meet held here at Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame swim team finished second in the Motor City Invitational this past weekend. Oakland College of Rochester, Michigan, finished first in the eight team field. 
The Notre Dame hockey team dropped a pair of contests over the weekend to Wisconsin. The Badgers defeated the Irish 5-2 and 12-1 on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. Notre Dame finished eighth in the WCHA, which qualifies them for the playoffs. The Irish will travel to Denver Friday and Saturday to meet the number-one ranked Pioneers in the opening round of the playoffs. 
• 
Diamond, worked Doug Ogburr. into the corners and against the ropes, inflicting heavy damage with quick flicks of the fists. Rick Erwin outlasted a tough Fritz Fisher, and Johnston Hill beat Bill Hartigan to round out the division. 
Sophomore Tony Ricci took the first step in defending his 142­pound championship with a convin­cing decision over Junior Vince Macisaac. Despite several stagger­ing blows early on, Macisaac refused to fall, but even his sheer determination couldn't overcome Ricci's technical superiority. 
Walt Rogers, who lost to Ricci in last year's final, outslugged Bill Burke in a wild match to advance to the semifinals, where he'll face Dave Cernak. Cernak won a split decision over newcomer Mark Casady, while Senior Mark Klein downed veteran Bob Speer to earn a spot in the semis against Ricci. 
In the 147-pound division, Mark 
-
I, 
. 
'· 
Roetzel used his reach advantage to win a unanimous decision over 
B.J. Lavins. Senior Pat O'Connell, a Bouts champ two years ago, marked his return to the ring with a thorough drubbing of Bill Roe. O'Connell appears to have lost little of his championship form, combining uppercuts, head bobs and footwork to keep Roe off­balance. 
John Talbot, John Stephens, Walt Strauser and Paul DeCelles emerged from the quarterfinals in the 152-pound class, all by unani­mous decisions. Talbot took his fight to his opponent, sophomore Joe Miller, and maintained his attack for the full three rounds. 
"Fly" Stephens scored a knock­down after a furious first round to oust Tim Maguire, while Strauser manhandled John McMahon, scor­ing on left jabs with pinpoint accuracy. DeCelles won a rather quiet bout with Dan Serban. 
Joe Cooler, who lost l-ast year's classic final against Phil Harbert in the 157-pound division, enhanced his reputation as the man to beat by decimating Mike Gilroy. A hard right to Gilroy's head ended the fight at 1:OS of the second round. 
Freshman Bob Thompson finish­ed with a flurry of jabs and uppercuts to earn a unanimous decision over Paul Komlosi. Anoth­er highly-touted newcomer, Steve Mynsberge, bloodied Mike Brink early on and fought off a ferocious third-round rally to score a stand­ing 8-count and win the unanimous decision. 
In the 162-pound bracket, Pete DeCelles overcame John Reilly's reach advantage by working low on the body and coming over the top with right hooks. Late in the fight, DeCelles threw two quick right 
[Continued on page 10] 
Flyers shoot down Irish, 66-59 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
Dayton-''There was a lot of 
emotion in there," Flyer Head 
Coach Don Donoher remarked. 
"It's tough for Notre Dame every 
place they go. But then, I guess 
that's part of being Notre Dame." 
The University of Dayton certain­
ly did not take it easy on the Irish, 
leveling Notre Dame's road mark to 
500. The Flyers, accomplishing the same feat they did four years ago, dumped the Fighting Irish, 66-59, before a capacity crowd at the Dayton Arena. 
Jack Zimmerman, who aided the 
Flyers in the opening half with ten 
points, put the first points on the 
board with 1:40 elapsed in the 
competition. Dave Batton con­
nected from the top of the key to tie 
the score and from that point, the 
game was a fierce struggle. 
Notre Dame took the lead for the first time at the 11:22 marl} of the period on a shot from the left side by Bill Laimbeer, making the score, 13-12. But, the Flyers would not be shot down. Dayton came back strong,and when Jim Paxson hit Erv Giddings with an excellent pass, the senior forward responded with a crowd-pleasing slam dunk, giving the Flyers a commanding 27-21 advantage. 
The Irish battled back and when Giddings was called for goaltend­ing off a Tracy Jackson 10hot, Notre Dame had notched the score at 33. But, in the final two and one half minutes, Dayton added three free throws to take a 36-33 lead into the locker room. 
In the opening period of play, the Irish shot 52 percent from the field, while the Flyers hit on an even SO. Kelly Tripucka led Notre Dame with ten points followed by Rich Branning with seven and Jackson with six. 

Giddings paced the Flyers with 15 points in the first 20 minutes. Paxson and Zimmerman each added ten. 
The Flyers kept their offense going after intermission, stretching their lead to as much as eight points in the first few minutes. With only 10:30 left in the contest, 
Irish to clash.· with Cougars in. opening round of NCAA 
by Paal Stevea&OD Sports Editor 
The speculati9n is over.. .The Fighting Irish basketball team has received; and accepted an invitation to play in the NC~A tournament. ~e bi~, Vfhich was officially announced about 3 p.m. yesterday, places NQtre Dame in the Midwest Regional against the University of Ho~ston itt Tulsa, Oklahotna.. That battle will be played on Sunday,
March 12. ·· 
The Coug~t~. who finished the season with a 25-7 ledger, are the 
sixth highest scoring team in the country, averaging 91 points per 
game. H:ouston also ranks in the top ten in average scoring margin of 
victrity, 
The Cougars have scored 100 or more points in eight of their contests 
this season. In addition, the highest point total for Houston this year 
was 137 markers. 
Five 9f Hwston• s losses came by only one point. The Irish and the 
Cotigars share only one common opponent, Baylor. While Notre Dame defeated the aears, 98·57, in the second game of the season at the ACC; Houston lost to Baylor by one. . ·.. However, Vinnie Johnson, Baylor's star guard who ranks among the top 30 scorers in the country, did not perform against the Irish. But, 
the Bears' backcourt specialist did compete against Ho.uston. 
. The Cougars have defeated some highly-regarded teams throughout 
the 1977-78 campaign, including Arkansas twice and Texas once. 
This invitation marks the fifth straight year in which the Irish have been asked to the NCAA's. Notre Dame's 19-6 ledger has definitely earned them this goal. 
Four of six Notre Dame losses came to NCAA tournament participants. Indiana, Kentucky, San Francisco and DePaul will all be attending this post-season competition. 
The other two Irish defeats came to the hands of South Carolina and Dayton. Both the Gamecocks and the Flyers were extended invitations to participate in the NIT yesterday, 
The Irish have met the Cougars on five previous occasions. Notre Dame holds a 2·3 record with Houston. · 
Notre Dame first met the Cougars on January 9, 1965, a game which the Irish won, 110-80 at Houston. However, in that same year in the NCAA tournament, the Irish lost to the Cougars in overtime, 99-98. 
In 1967, the Irish downed the Cougars again, this time by a 87-78 mark. The University of Houston evened the score two years later with a 89-82 triumph. 
The final confrontation between the two schools was in the 1971 tournament. The Cougars tripped the Irish again, 119-106 in the regional consolation game. 
Well, it's been seven years since these two schools met. In the past couple of years, the Southwest Conference has been making more of a name for themselves in basketball. This opening round of the tournament for the Irish will certainly be a continuation of a competitive series. 
Tracy jackson contributed nine points and six rebounds, but it wasn't enoughto stop Dayton from lowering the Irish road mark to 
500. [Photo by Don Marcotte] 
Paxson hit on a back door and also drew a foul. Via the three-point play by Jackson, Notre Dame led for the first time in the second half, 52-SO. 
Then, with 6:21 remammg, Tripucka hit from medium range to give Notre Dame their largest lead of the game, 54-SO. Even though the Irish appeared to have the momentum, Dayton would not fold. 
The Flyers, still hoping a win over the Irish would secure them an NIT bid, out-scored the Notre Dame cagers 16 to five after Tripucka's tally. Giddings' two free throws with nine seconds left ended the game at 66-59. 
In the second half, Notre Dame shot 30 percent from the field,· lowering their day's percentage to 
41. Meanwhile, the Flyers hit 39 percent in the second 20 minutes, 45 percent for the game. 
Tripucka led Notre Dame with his 22 point performance, while Branning backed the freshman forward with ten markers. Jackson added nine points and Dave Batton chipped in six. 
Giddings led all scorers with 23 points and teammate Paxson con-. tributed 22. Zimmerman finished the day with 12 markers. 
''Emotionally, this game has got to wake us up," Irish mentor Digger Phelps commented. "We'll take this defeat to the NCAA playoffs and use it as a means of motivation." 
Notre Dame's final contest of the regular season will be tonight against Loyola of Chicago. Tip-off is set for 8 p.m. 



