
. -.. ~·-~~-------------­


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 114 Tuesday, April11, 1978 
NLRB hearing delayed 
Notre Dame refuses to comply with subpoena 
by Mike Ridenour  door session for the two sides to  Tom Bull,  director of personnel,  
Staff Reporter  attempt to settle out of court. After  responded  for  Notre  Dame  to  
Notre Dame's refusal to comply with a subpoena yesterday has sent the hearing concerning unfair labor practices against the Univers­ity to the Federal Courts. The hearing, held at the County-City Building in South Bend, will not continue until the issue of the  four hours, a settlement was not reached and the hearing began at 3:05p.m. In the closed-door session, Teamsters Local 364, wh? origi­nally charged the University with unfair labor practices offered a settlement to Notre Dame but it  Lawrence's remarks, "I can't pre­dict when there will be an election for unionization on campus, but you must remember that the Team­sters could have continued with the issue of unionization while the unfair labor practice suit was occurring. It's possible the deci­ 
subpoena is resolved. According to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) subpoena, the University is to produce certain records and individuals for the court. Neither were presented be­cause, "We feel that these docu­ments are not relevant to this proceeding," stated james Salz­ was rejected. In that proposed settlement, the Teamsters present­ed a compromise in two parts. The first dealt with an election to unionize the groundskeepers plus stadium, garage and laundry staffs. Originally the Teamsters only wanted to have an election for the groundskeepers. Notre Dame,  sion for an election could have been made now." Bull also said if the Teamsters are to represent workers on the campus, they should represent all the blue collar workers. "We don't want the union picking away dif­ferent jobs on campus,'' Lawrence added.  
man. Notre Dame's attorney and representative of the law firm Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather  if there is an election, wants all the blue collar workers involved on campus. This would make the  The hearing was concerned mostly with preliminary pro­cedures. Notre Dame several mo­ 
and Geraldson. Brenda Robinson, Counsel for the General Counsel and NLRB lawyer, said "Because of the, nature of the items requested by  passage of unionization on campus tougher since employees in other jobs don't look as favorably on the unionization effort. The second part involved the  tions to strike certain parts of the subpoena, but each was denied by Miller. Also a review of the events that led up to this hearing was given by Salzman.  
the counsel for the general counsel the position is that she herself cannot continue in any part of her without the documents.'' Robinson stated, "I will stand by my request for immediate produc­tion of all the documents in the  University trying to persuade SAGA food services for a quick election before school lets out among the dining hall employees. "We'll try our luck in both propo­sals," said Mike Lawrence, Assist­ant business representative for Teamsters Local 364.  The hearing was delayed an hour because Miller was late arriving. Miller, who was flown in from Washington, lost his luggage at the airport. After the subpoena is settled in the Federal Courts, Miller will set a new date for a  

subpoena and ask the ocurt to allow hearing. me to give me leave to go into the Lawrence added, "I think the The NLRB' s charges state Notre Federal Courts and enforce the NLRB has a good chance in win­Dame threatened to fire the subpoena which was taken against ning. Of course the University groundskeepers, announced wagethe University of Notre Dame." could appeal and ultimately take it increases and other benefits to the 
John C. Miller, Administrative to the Supreme Court. It is so employees to influence them not to Judge for the NLRB, after arriving, important that the University is not join the union and contracted out immediately called for a closed-about to admit to a mistake." the food service at the dining halls. 
Critic discusses sex in flims 
Lawyers Brenda Robinson [left] of the NLRB and james Salzman [right] representing Notre Dame check over respective ·strategies before the hearing yesterday. [photo by Doug Christian] 
ND~' security changes proposed by-audit 
by Diane WUson experience but who has proven 
News Editor himself within the Department 
should be able to attain it." Editor's Note: This Is the first of a The way footmen patrol campus three part report on Security Audit was another point the report found Inc.'s finding In their recent study fault with. It suggested that "the of Notre Dame Security. Today's two foot-patrolment on the day article covers the Notre Dame shift (7 a.m. to 3 p.m.) should be Security force. eliminated. The two foot-patrol­
men should be assigned to a shiftA report made by Security Audit that overlaps the third and firstInc. (SAl) evaluating all aspects of shifts--from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m." Thesecurity at Notre Dame, listed report continued that this would many areas which can be improved enable more men to be on foot­and offered constructive criticism patrol during the time when theof Notre Dame Security. 
most incidents occur.
The 42-page document, complet­While Security acquired theed in mid-March after a six-week powers of arrest when the Board of study by SAl, was released last Trustees met last October, SAlweek by Bro. Just Paczesny, vice­found that most Security officerspresident for Student Affairs. 
believed that they did not have this The report, which was released power. SAl recommended that theby SAl following thier investiga­power of arrest be applicable only tion, judged four main categories: to designated officers. They con-the ND security force, the security [contlnued to page 3]of women at ND, security in the Athletic and Convocation Center, at the football stadium and Senior Bar. 
Paczesny deleted some material containing personal evaluations of security direction and personnel before releasing the report. 
The report began by praising the responsiveness of Security saying, "Some persons questioned the effectiveness of personnel after they had responded, but almost all acknowledged a quick response." 
One suggestion the report offer­
18 ed was to standardize Security's voting for all rules of procedure. "All Depart­uan11 a~:10... . student assembly ment procedures and regulations taJr;eplaceApril24, between 10 should be standardized and pub­p.m., in the lobby of lished in a manual that is issued to t.eJMansnw.J. Ifa run-off election is each officer." The report continu­ne~ssary they will be held April ed that the manuals should be kept 26. up to date and officers should be aass tiCkets must have a presi· expected to know and understand d¢nt, vice. president, Secretary and the contents. treasurer; hall tickets consist of a 
Revising the classification sys­president, vice-president and stu­tem of the Security officers was dent assembly representatives run also advised by SAL The report on an individual ticket. Rules stated that calssifications should be CODCC:)rtling campaigning will be revised so that officers can advance distributed when platforms are on the basis of merit, experience silhmitted and they must be in and objective testing. It continued triplicate. that "prior police experience alone Fot <DJQte information contact should not qualify an officer for the Carrie Ttl)lJSdale at 5231 or Noreen highest rank. A man without such atacten at 5<18Q. · by Andy Segovia film clips to illustrate the various 
Arthur Knight, noted writer and trends of film censorship. film critic, lectured on the "History ''The force of censorship comes of Sex in the Cinema" before an from a large segment of the audience of approximately two population who are afraid of hundred in the library auditorium changes occurring in the society,''. last night. noted Knight. "This is due to the 
"I am under the impression that fact that movies reflect and affect most of you came here to view dirty our society." movies," quipped Knight as he ''There are vicarious reasons why began the two-and-one-half hour· the film media is susceptible to lecture and film presentation. censorship," explained Knight, Knight limited the presentation to ''for one thing films are shown in a a detailed review of film censorship darkened room on a screen larger and classification. He used various than life. This gives films a voyeuristic quality.'' 

Knight traced the development 
of cinema from the nickelodeons to 
the large theatres. The motion 
picture association was formed 
in1915 to provide self-regulation, 
he explained, because "The Su­
preme Court ruled that films were 
an instrument of commerce and 
thus not protected by the rights 
given to other forms of expression. 
This ruling did not change until 
1952." 

During this period, Americas' 
desire for sex in the cinema was 
satisfied by films which used crafty 
ploys and pretexts to display nudity 
and sex, Knight said. 
"This new freedom made the 
film producers realize that X-rated 
movies have limited audjence and 
are attended by mass audience only 
when enough 'heat' is placed upon 
the movie by the press." 
Knight used film segments rang­
ing from early 1900 films to a 
milder segment from Deep Throat. 
Included was a short view of Mom 
& Dad, a 1946 movie which grossed 
over $40 million and is still used for 
sex education purposes. 
"I am not here to defend Deep 
Throat, concluded Knight, "but if a 
film like this is prosecuted it may 
make vulnerable some of the most 
distinguished films of our time 
such as Midnight Cowboy, Carnal 
Knowledge and Last Tango In 
Paris.'' 

Knight is currently a professor of 
cinema at the University of South­
ern California and writes for Play· 
boy magazine. Knight authored 
The UveUest Art, a comprehensive 
history of film and was film· critic 
for the Saturday Review for over . twenty years. 


~News Briefs_____ 
Bracht found dead 
ANTWERP, Belgium -The body of wealthy Baron Charles Bracht, 
kidnapped March 7, is found in a garbage dump. Authorities say he 
died a violent death. 
Weather 
There is a 30 percent chance of rain Tuesday morning, but becoming partly cloudy by afternoon. Highs in the mid 50s. Fair Tuesday night with lows around 40. Mostly sunny Wednesday with highs in the low 60s. 



,_On Campus Today ______. 

According to a recent national 
survey of incoming freshman, 
Notre Dame continues to attract 
undergraduate applicants with ex­
cellent academic credentials as well 
as strong high school activity 
records. 
A summary report from the College Board's Admissions Test-
Heller to lecture tomorrow night 
Eric Heller, Avalor• professor · of Humanities at Northwestern Uni­versity, will present a lecture on "Literature and Social Responsi­bility" tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. The presentation is part of The Ameri­can Scene: A Cultural Series. 
Renowned educator and literary critic, Heller holds a Ph.D from Cambridge University and has taught in numerous American and European Universities. Corres­ponding member of the German Academy of Language and Litera­ture, he was the 1969 recipient of the Academy's Johann-Heinrich Merck Prize for Essay and Literary Criticism. 

Workers needed for Third World Conference 
The Student Government Third World Awareness Conference is now forming its organizational committee. All those interested in working for the conference should contact Kathy Rosenthal (8125) sometime this week for details. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Chris Slatf Asst. Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling Layout Staff: Peggy Miller, Jay Foster Editorial Layout: Martha Fanning Features Layout: Cazzo Sports Layout: Greg "Jour­nal" Solman Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary Jo Cushing, Beth Rizzo, Katie Brehl, but no Lisa DiV., with or without make-up night Controller: Mike Bodle Copy Reader: Joan Fremean Ad Layout: Beth Cutter 
Photographer: Dave Rum­bach 11 am­5 pm 

3:15pm 
4-6 pm 4:30pm 
7 pm 
7-8 pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8:15 pm 
10 pm­midnite 
_ 
one earth marketplace, sale ot Imported handcrafts from around the world. this event continues through april 14. rathskellar, Iafortune. 
career workshop, "decision-making & values clarif­ication" kathleen rice. 154 lemans. career development center. 
wine tasting, part of alcohol awareness week. stapleton lounge. 
seminar, "the role of glycopeptide and peptide antifreezes in the survival of cold-water fishes," dr. arthur I. devries, univ. of illinois, 278 galvin aud., sponsored by biology dept. 
film series, "murder, my sweet," (1945) carroll hall smc. 
7 & 10 pm film, "west side story" engineering aud., admission 
$1, sponsored by student union. 
wine tasting, grace hall. 
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. 
film, "the first vision," bulla shed, produced by brigham young university. 
talk, fr. james t. burtchaell will speak on liberal­education, grace hall pit, sponsored by grace hall cultural-acamemic commission. 
audio-visual lecture, "paris 1890: lautrec's mont­marte", dr. james ward, notre dame, library aud., sponsored by dept. of history. 
one earth lecture, "united states & the tangle of the two chinas", dr. yu-ming shaw, notre dame, architecture auditorium. 
recital, graduate organ recital -mary ann de Ia garza, sacred heart church, sponsored by music dept. 
entertainment/film, alcohol awareness week pre­sentation. return of jules thompson; free refresh­ments; beer making demonstration by dr. pat 
mccabe. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam end vautlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame end Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased for no per year CS I 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlene 46556. Second class postage peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 4US6. 
The Observer Is • member of the Associated Press. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 
\...,...~ ...,.............,....,...~~·.,....._... .........: 
~ BETH APPIO 1 IS ~ 20 TODAY 
~ Dates given for i ~ the best kissers \ or why not call l._.._.._.._4_±lli[______ 
~ ~ 
t . ~ 
~ 
i 
j 




Survey shows Notre Dame attracts excel/ant applicants 
0.: 

Tuesday, 11 April 7:30PM 
library Auditorium 
~ ~I 



~ ST MARY 'S ~ 
~  
~  Class, Hall and Student Assembly Elections  
~  nominations: April12 toApril17  
~ :t  platforms (3 copies) due: April17, midnight, to: Noreen Bracken  
'"J'it  124 Regina North campaigning: Aprll18 to April 23, midnight  
~  primary: April 24, 10 am to 6 pm, L.eMans LDbby  
~  election: April 26, 10 am to 6 pm, LeMans LDbby  
'"J'  questions?: Carl, 5231 or Noreen, 5480  
~  

~ ~ 
......................................... 
ing Program compared Notre Dame's freshmen applicants and enrollees with national norms in several areas. The typical enrolled freshman last fall at Notre Dame had a 3.71 overall grade point average in high school, and almost three in four incoming students were in the top 10 per cent of their graduating classes. The average grade point for prospective appli­cants to all four-year private insti­tutions of higher learning in the nation was 3.16, with about one in four ranking in the top 10 per cent of their graduating classes. (A "prospective applicant" is one who has his other test scores sent to an institution's admissions office.) 
Nationwide, 56 per cent of the prospective applicant to private, four-year colleges and universities were women, while Notre Dame's figure was half that--28 per cent. While 80 per cent of prospective applicants at these same institu­tions last fall were from public schools, NotreDame'sCiass of 1981 had 60 per cent from public schools. 
Notre Dame freshman were also more likely to plan postbaccalaur­eate work than the national average for private institutions, and they were more likely to have participa­ted iJ1 high school varsity athletics, held a major office in a high school student organization and received a high school honor or award. 
The average income for the parents of enrolled Notre Dame freshmen last fall was $32,000, about $11,000 above that for the parents of prospective applicants to private colleges and universities nationwide. 
TODAY -TODAY -TODAY 
Crafts from all over the world­sold in basement of La Fortune from noon to 5 pm. 

ONE EARTH WEEK 
8 PM Lecture-Dr. Yu-Ming Shaw "United States & The Tangle of Two Chines" Arch. Auditorium 

SMC 21 CLUB 
Applications Now Accepted For: 1978 -79 ·Manager ·Assistant Manager ·Bartender/Checker 
Apply by friday, April 14, 1978 
at the Student Activities Office 166 Lemans Hall 
~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Hand tooled· goods from Mexico. We'll repair your shoes, and we have new shoes too! 
Quick Service Reasonable Prices 


while you wait ... 

ACROSS FROM THE BOOKSTORE 
(283) -1144 
*The Observer 
ad. dept. is looking for........ 
applicants to fill positions on the 1978-79 sales staff. Those hired will start in the fall. 
These are paid positions offering excellent work experience • 
*WOrk On a COmmission basis 
i( *you need not be a busineSS


i( • 
~ rnaJOr tO apply
'"P' 
.. ... . _... ~ 
schedule an interview: at the Observer office third floor LaFortune mon-fri till 5 

I 

Tuesday, April11, 1978 the observer 
3 

Security changes recommended by audit 
[continued from page 1] _ tinued, the Security Director should take the responsibility for instructing his officers in the techniques of arrest. 
They also said that the designat­ed officers should attend the Indi­ana Law Enforcement Academy for a ten-week basic course given to all law enforcement officers with the powers of arrest. 
In relationship to Security's liai­son with other local law enforce­ment agencies, SAl recommended "the University's General Counsel establish with the corporation ~ounsel of South Bend the prosecu­tor of St. Joseph County, and legal counsel representatives of the St. Joseph County Police Department and the Indiana State Police the clear and definitive lines of juris­diction with respect to police services on campus. 
"With these jurisdictional lines firmly set, the Security Director should then initiate a conference with the head of the St. Joseph County Police Department, the South Bend Police Department and the local commander of the Indiana State Police and liaison arrange­ments perfected and policed and placed in writing which will provide effective police services at this University." 
SAl believes the law enforce­men~ agencies are all friendly with each other, there is presently no real liaison between them as ND Security has referred only four investigations to other police de­partments in the last four years. 
The escort system was one item of Security that the reprot felt was necessary and should be retained as it now exists. They recommend­ed the response to a request be courteously received and promptly made. 
It was found by SAl that ND Security k~pt a "very low profile" around campus. Because they believed that it is difficult to have faith in something that is seldom 


Welfare reform meeting tonight 
The League of Women Voters 
and the United Religious Commu­
nity of South Bend are sponsoring 
an evening discussion on President 
Carter's proposed welfare reform 
package tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 
the dining room of the YWCA. The 
YWCA is located at 802 N. Lafay­
ette Blvd. and the meeting is free 
and open to the public. 
The guest speaker of the meeting 
will be Judy Rausch, the Welfare 
Reform coordinator with Legal 
Services of Indiana in Indianapolis. 
who will speak on the proposed 
reforms. 
Rausch has also worked with the 
Indiana Center of Law and Poverty 
as a community organizer and 
educator, as well as a staff member 
of the Indiana Poor Relief Commis­
sion. 
Papers needed L for o.:.c drive · 
The off-campus paper drive is j now in progress and will run today through Thursday. The drop-Qff bin is in the C-3 parking lot. ,Jll proceeds will go to Volunteer Services. 
seen, SAl recommended "the De­partment's three vehicles be plain­ly and prominently marked as "Security." It is also recommend­ed that the replacements for these vehicles be uniform in make and model. The present vehicles should be equipped with search . lights, if permitted by State law." 
The first impression visitors often receive of Notre Dame is the one they get from the gate keepers, the report stated. The gate guards, the report continued, particularly during the day, should not only have the capacity to make good judgment and be discerning, they should present a positive, vital, visual impression. 

Security provides the service of transporting students in need to local health institutions. Although this is a necessary function, SAl believes that because Security pre­sently has only three cars, "the responsibility for transportation in medical emergencies be removed from the Security Department and placed with the Student Health Center. 
One fault that the students possess, the report stated is the 


1977 -1978 

Freshman Registers 
FOR SALE 

AT THE LOW PRICE OF $1 
Get yours at the Student Union Ticket .Qfflce 
I 


assaults that were made against Security officers. In 1977 there were seven reports of assaults as well as verbal abuse the Security guards at the gates received from students wishing to bring vehicles on campus. 
SAl believes that Security De­partment officers should not be subjected to discourtesy and abuse from students. Therefore they suggest that ''in duLac, the guide to student life at Notre Dame, a better definition of the Security Department's function should be given." The report suggested that any such abuse be treated in the same manner as an assault on a faculty member. 
In checking into the number of crimes reported in each year, SAl found that the number of bicycle thefts have been declining, larceny has declined from 228 in 1975 to 77 in 1977. In relation to crimes against the person, SAl believes crimes in this area are well within the expected range, considering the population of this community. SAl has come to the conclusion that crime is not rampant on the ND campus. 




'LffiRARY 
i 
I 
! 
r 

I 
I 
a 

Assistant Treasurer­Student Government 
-must be presently a so~homore and going into Accounting 
-pickup apelications in the Treasurer s Office 2nd Floor LaFortune 
-applications must be in by 
..

Friday, April 14th 

need posters in a hurry? 



a THURSDAY 
.. 
\ 

• 

----·-­


"Cheers" 

------------------------~;oel secrest 
The University of Nctre Dame For some unknown reason col­
attracts some of the finest high lege and sex have received very
school graduates in the country. 
little positive correlation. Ac­Every year the respective freshman 
cording to Playboy college life is class is hailed as "the best and the 
little more than a group of tanned brightest" in the school's history. guys in Jantzen ~weaters toss'ing a 
Their average board scores arc football around between their in­higher and an increasing percen­
numerable trysts with co-eds. But tage were National Honor Society 
sex as the focal point of the Notre 
members. class officers. members 
Dame experience? Hardly. Sex at of student council. athletic cap­Notre Dame is more like a Senate tain~. editors. Eagle Scouts. altar filibuster -plenty of talk but veryboys, etc.. etc. There can be no 
little action. I just jopc my even questioning the vast potential for 
considering sex as the highlight of scholarship posessed by students 
Notre Dame has not caused too accepted to this university. 
much unmitigated mirth. However. what doc~ Notre Dame 
But again let us delve into the! contribute to this grade A crop of 
educational aspects. If the deepAmerican youth? The more impor­structure of our life-style is nOt tant concern is not the personalities 
located in the classroom perhaps it that enroll here but the personali­may be found through studying.ties that graduate. To understand 
The cult of the cutthroat is indeed a the effect of Notre Dame requires a 
popular stereotype on this campus. -.cssion in the cognitive laboratory; 

I 
Students do spend a fair amount of for to see what we bet·ome we must their time "booking". But the take our lives and fractionally distill 
studying itself is nothing special. It 
out the essence of Notre Dame. does not help us to separate the So our task is defined. But where 

Notre Dame person from any~ other collegian. However. we are
docs this most fundamental core of the Notre Dame experience lie? Is 
getting closer. There is one it in the classroom? Perhaps. A past-time to which Domers devote 
majority of the students appear to 
at least as much time to and in attend a majority of their classes. 
which they excel in far greater than There is even a rumor ttoatmg any of their NCAA brethren. around that in a few classes. 
This pasttime. this core concept,undoubtedly in O'Shaughnessy. an 
this definitive behavior of our intellectual discussion sometimes 
identity as real Fighting Irish is occurs. But although the quest for drinking. Please do not laugh. The knowledge, or at least grades, is a 
spirit of Notre Dame is found in high priority for most students. the that oldest organic chemical syn­idea of classes as the foundation of 
thesized by man -ethyl alcohol. our Fighting Irish existence is 
Dionysus. not the Leprechaun. is somewhat blase. The spirit of 
our true mascot. Ask any alumnus Notre Dame is not limited to fifty 
or upperclassman if he can tell youminute intervals three times a 
the words inscribed on Nieuland week. Science Hall. You will probablv only receive a queer look. But just about any one of them will be able to tell you where Sweeney's used to be. and most freshmen will see the inside of Kubiaks many a time before they visit the log chapel. I am afraid our goal has been reached: the final product has been purified. And the essence of Notre Dume is none other than the essence of alcohol. 

But what is the end-result of this predominant aspect of our univcris­ity experience? To answer this we need two facts of biologv: a) alcohbl 
destroys brain cells and b) each of us has a finite number of brain cells. Now consider all the tail­gaters, section parties. kcggers, birthdays, St. Patrick's Day cele­brations, ad infinitum. What does our drinking and drowning in pursuit of the foxy lady during those interminable happy hours lead to? The conclusion is painfully obvious. The Notre Dame exper­ience, coupled with the biological effects of the imbibation of alcohol, points to a logical. inevitable and very sobering denouement, i.e. the Notre Dame experience reduces a student body of very high intellect­ual potential to the level of morons. 
The situation thus exists. Is there any alternative? I can't think of one. But you see, I am a junior at Notre Dame, or to put it more accurately. I am three-fourths of an idiot. But perhaps the essence is unalterable. So please show no surprise if you should see me in some bar this weekend. And if by chance our eyes should meet as we raise our glasses. do not expect me to say anything more than just "Cheers!" 
lA/JIESAND 
~ HEI?E
rts A SIIAMe, ~UY. I
~7HE"t've 

M4Y I HAVe IAEGO!
THNI< ~Y'VE &EVAlJEO
E-XPANOElJ IT 
7/lt II.IMN /?161(15 AltJIW1s 

}f){R~ Nl3ElJ A
CXlVSIOEI?ABLY 

P/.EASE? IN ()(JR PE/tK:/L?
8Y OFFSQN6 SO MANY..
mJM LA5T 

l 
FI~T CA/EljQ(f.,
YEAR.. 

I
I 




OOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
BENIN'S A CHAN!iED COUN7RY, 
_AND T11E
PHJ?EIJ.I CIVIL U8CKTTCS AN/) 
W!NNtR /5 .. 
THEN~! LAST >f'M AlONE 
6/JIN£.4!
IUE f(£l/3A5E!J O'rCR. 50 POL.mCAL PRISONERS! 
/
I 

ti.E'VE 60T IT! I JfJ5T 
KNOIAI~ 
60T fT! I 
fJGE, VICTOR, 111/lT(K}ES IT/ I'M REALLY BACK IN 711& 
SORKY.. SLAMMeR! 
I I 
WASIDNGTON--Hospitals are get­
ting more efficient these days and 
have cut down the time it takes to 
get a bed for you. The reason for 
this is that there is a surplus of 
beds, and in order to survive a 
hospital must keep them full. This 
is good and it's bad. 

I went to visit a sick friend at the 
hospital the other day. I had to go 
to the information booth which also 
handled the admitting procedure. 
Before I could ask what room my friend was in the lady took down my name. age. occupation. filled out a slip and rang a bell. I was just about to tell her I was only visiting a friend when two attendants arrived with a wheelchair. placed me in it and started pushing me down the hall. 
''I'm not sick." I yelled. ''I'm just looking for a friend." 
"When he comes." one attend­ant said, "we'll send him up to your room." 
"He's here already," I pro­tested. "Good. Once we have you in bed he can come up and see you." 
I found myself in a small room ' marked ''Private. Check With Nurse Before Knocking." The attendant stripped me, gave me a weird. short nightgown that tied in the back, a water pitcher and turned on the television set hang­ing from the ceiling. "If you need anything. press the button." 
"I want my clothes back." "Oh, you can trust us." the attendant said. "Even if the worst happens we will see that your widow gets everything." 
I was trying to figure how to escape out the window when D~. Ward came in with several of hts students. 
•'Thank heavens you finally 
came," I said. 

"It hurts that bad?" he asked. 
"It doesn't hurt at all," I retorted. 
Dr. Ward looked worried. "If you don't feel any pain that means it's much more serious than we thought. Where did it originally 
hurt?" 
"It didn't hurt anywhere." 
Dr. Ward nodded sympathetic­ally and turned to his students: "This is the toughest kind of patient to handle because he refuses to acknowledge that he is 
ill. He will never be well again until he gets over the delusion that he is in perfectly good health. Since he won't tell us where it hurts we'll have to do exploratory surgery to find out for ourselves." 
"But I don't want an operation." 
Dr. Ward nodded. "No one docs, but wouldn't it be better to get it out now rather than later?" 
"There's nothing to get out! Everything is in order." 
"If it was," said Dr. Ward, writing on a chart. "you wouldn't be here." 
The next morning they shaved all the hair off my chest and refused to give me breakfast. 
Two attendants arrived and placed me on a rolling stretcher. The head nurse walked along beside me. A minister brought up the rear. I looked for help from anywhere. There was no one. 
Finally, I was wheeled into the operating room. "Wait," I said. "I have something to tell you. I'm deathly sick but I HAVE NO MEDICAL INSURANCE! I can't even pay for the anesthesiologist." 
The anesthesiologist turned off the valve on his machine. "And I have no money to pay the doctor," I said. The doctor started to put his instruments away. 
Then I looked at the head nurse. "I can't even pay for the room." 
Before I knew it I was back in my civilian clothes and out on the street, thrown there by the two attendants who had first wheeled me in. 
I went back to ask what room my friend was in but the admitting clerk looked at me coldly and said, "We don't ever want to see you in this hospital again. You're sick." 

*Observer 



Editorials 


Tuesday, April11, 1978 the observer 
5 
j 
WHITE SOX OPENING DAY 

TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALL GAME 
by daue gill 
As an American Studies major, I am becoming increasingly aware of the c~ltural trends and fads that run deep and wtde through this country. Fast food chains, backgammon, Steve Martin, Southern Democrats. Some are good but last only a short while; some are bad and seem never to end. There are also those trends that, I hope, will never stop being a part of American society. The United States.• as a_ society, celebrates the coming?f spnng wtth a cultural rite that is unique m the world: Opening Day of major league baseball. 
As a consenting member of the Amer­ican society, I deemed it necessary to participate in my culture's spring rites. Throwing caution and grades to the wind, I, along with five other participants, left my Friday classes in the hands of those willing to attend, and made my way to Chicago, where the White Sox and the Boston Red Sox were scheduled to welcome spring. 
The dress for the affair was to be casual, the weather for the day, warm; I dressed accordingly, sparingly, and cursed myself for leaving my sunglasses at home. I dedded my tennis cap would suffice as a sun barrier, and I took a jacket in case the Windy City suffered a cooling breeze. Loaded down with camera, zoom lens, cigarettes, five extra packs of matches, and contact lens supplies (leaving my baseball glove at the last moment), I was ready. 
The drive to Chicago was uneventful, other than that we took a couple of wrong turns; but that was all right, because it was a beautiful day, perfect for Opening Day, and we didn't have any reason to hurry. Even though I have been to countless other major league games, this would be my first Opening Day. and I wasn't quite sure what to expect. I went knowingly, but hesitant­ly. 
We parked the car, edging between two others in an uncomfortably small space, and walked toward the ballpark, quickly merging into the throng of people. As trite as it may sound, there was something in the air; I could see it in the myriad of faces as the crowd maneuvered toward the gates. The people surged at the ticket takers and I enjoyed the moment, seeing the variance of colors and shapes, looking at the different friendly smiles, realizing this was the first and last time I would see any of these people. I indulged in the anonymity. remembering the all-too-soon return to Notre Dame and its familiar sights and sounds. 
When we arrived at our seats, most of the pre-game hoopla had been completed. I quickly took out my camera, switched to the zoom lens, snapped a few pictures, and realized that it would be impossible to take any good shots. For two reasons: one, the sun was glaring straight at us; two, I was tipsy from the ride up and didn't intend to stop drinking beers just so I could have a few black and white remembrances of a baseball game. 
The game itself did not matter. After beginning the game with the habitual "Star Spangled Banner", my friends and I settled back for a day of hot dogs and beer in the newly arrived spring sun. Initially, I cheered for both sides, not caring who won the game, only caring that it would be a good game to go along with the good day. 
Three images of the game remain with me, and one didn't even occur on the playing field. Due to the hot sun, the overflow crowd, and a lack of concession workers, the beer and food lines were unusually long and slow-moving. In fact, the lines moved so slowly, I spent a third of the game under the bleachers, hearing the crowd cheer and boo, waiting in line and listening to a frustrated housewife inform the thirsty hordes that they would not be served until the patrons formed a single, straight line. Luckily, the lady was not serving our line, so we traded jibes with her until she started serving her restless, single-filed customers. 
During the seventh inning stretch, when the home fans normally stand, stretch, and mill about, announcer Harry Caray led us all in a rendition of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game." It was the most enjoyable time during the entire game for me, standing up, looking around at the 50,000 people, and knowing that everyone was having a good time. 
The third image came near the end of the game. The sun had cooled and we sat contentedly slouched in our seats, awaiting the final out. While we watched, I remembered a friend's request for a baseball and, at that instant, the batter swung and sent the ball on a line directly at our section. I jumped up to position myself for an attempt at the ball and, as I jumped, my camera, still hanging around my neck, swung up and back, hitting me in the chest and knocking the wind out of me. The expression on the right fielder's face mirrored my reaction: surprise, pain, and helplessness. Luckily, the ball landed in the stand thirty feet to our left, so I sat down and nursed some air into my stricken lungs. My friend's request went unfilled. 
The game finally ended, the White Sox coming from behind to beat the Red Sox, 6-5. It was an extremely satisfying way to bring in the long-awaited spring. A cloudless day, some good friends, and a pari in America's culture, the welcoming of spnng, opening day at 'Comiskey Park. 
Annapurna Ill by howie spectre 
This August the American Annapurna III coordinating food for the expedition. Dr. Expedition will leave for Nepal. The 7-man Dennis Coffee. 29. of Winslow, Arizona team's objective is to climb the unclimbed will be the team physician. Edward Connor southwest buttress of 24.787 foot Anna­of Southern California. at age 36 is the "old puma Ill. The expedition has received man" of the group. Ed has made several permission for the climb from the Nepalese Alaskan climbs and is in charge of fund Foreign Ministry. as well as the official raising. Team photographer Tom endorsement of the Arizona Mountaineer­McCullough. 28. a veteran of Mt. Logan. ing Club and the sponsorship of the McKinley. and Nevado Pisco will be American Alpine Club. shooting footage for the film documenting 
One of the group's major purposes is to the climb. Rick Mosher. a wizard on ice. demonstrate the feasibility of using a small age 28. will handle packaging and shipping expedition to ascend a major peak. as of food and equipment. opposed to the traditional large scale style Sapp. who did a reconnaisance of the of Himalayan mountaineering. Although mountain in December of 1977. reports 60 porters will be employed to assist in that much high-angle rock and ice work will moving 3500 pounds of equipment to base be required at altitudes over 21.000 feet. c~mp_. the actual climb will involve only the The team will be using a large amount of stx. chmbers and a phomgrapher. No high fixed line. Logistics for the approach and altttude porters will help the climbers make the porters were arranged while Sapp was the numerous ferries of loads to each in Nepal. The approach march begins just successively higher camp. after the monsoon season. and several . ~e beautiful countryside of Nepal with bridges may be required across the Moldi t~ ptcture.sque people and villages. along Khola River in order to reach base camp. 
wtth the bttter snow and wind of the might The expedition will use neither sherpas nor Himalayas. will be captured on film for a oxygen once on the mountain. The total 


cost of the expedition will be in excess of
unique documentary of the climb. The 
$30.000. Substantial support has already
mountain has had only three ascents: An 
been furnished by equipment manufac­
Indian team on May 6. 1961; a Japanese 
turers. but the active involvement of
Women's group on May 19. 1970; and a 
individuals is still necessary to defray the
recent Italian team in October of 1977 (the 
projected cost of the expedition.

details of this group's ascent are still 
The team is also offering ·a trek to the
unclear). 
base camp of Annapurna III in conjunction 
The expedition is led by Steve Van Meter 

with the climb. This trek will take you to
of Orange. California. age 23. Steve and 
the spectacular Annapurna Sanctuary. The
his climbing partner. Greg Sapp, age 22. 
trek to base camp affords magnificent
decided to climb Annapurna III while 
views of the Annapuma range. Maccha­
climbing on Mt. Foraker in Alaska in 1975. 
puchhare. and the Chaulagiris. For further
Team member Werner Landry. 30. of San 
information or reservations. contact expe­
Diego. climbed the difficult south ridge of 
di•ion leader Steve Van Pvfeter. 428 Blue
Mt. Foraker with a French team in 1975. 
Ridge. Orange, CA 92665; or call Steve at
Werner is managing the difficult task of 
(714) 974-1233. 
,

WSND album \ reu1ews 
spotlight often enough. but all in all it is a 
*Stanley Clarke * 
worthwhile disc. 
Modem MJm is the fourth solo effort of 
* Outlaws*
former Return to Forever bassist Stanley Clarke. The album features Clarke on electric. acoustic, and piccolo basses, and 
Bring It Bad Alive is a two record collection of songs from the Outlaws' late
lead vocals. Backup is provided by Jeff Porcaro. Gerry Brown and Carmine Appice ~977 tour: The album consists mostly of on drums; Michael Garson on piano; with 
bve, verstons of songs from previous 'Skunk' Baxter. Ray Gomez and Jeff Beck 
releases. Harry Sandown, Lady In Wait­Ing, and Outlaws. It is dedicated to Thehandling the guitar chores. During the Lynyrd Skynyrd Band and Crew. and thecourse of the album. Clarke and company 
run through an enjoyable amalgam of album appropriately contains rock music with a true Southern sound. 
styles. from processional marches to laid The songs are for the most part quite
back ballads. Side one is highlighted by the first three 
similar to the studio versions except for tunes. The first number is ''Opening 
some prolonged instrumentals. For ex-­Statement," a dramatic march, flourishing 
ample, "Green Grass and High Tides" trumpets and all. Clarke demonstrates a 
makes up the entire fourth side of the smooth vocal delivery on the ballad "He 
album. Ifyou like the instrumental part of Lives On." and lays down an effective 
this song, you will love this rendition. The groove for the funk number "More Hot 
other songs are closer to the original versions. and some are improved by theFun." The flip side starts off with spirit and energy put into the live
"Dayride." and here Oarke cranks out an 
performance. ''There Goes Another Loveinfectious bass line. Clarke's distinguish­
Song." "Holiday," and "Hurry Sundown"
ed bass-playing abilities are brought to are particularly good cuts.
bear in several short interludc=s on the One complaint about the album could besecond side. and he comes through with that the songs are possibly "padded" withsome extremely melodic effects. The some good guitar liclts. Some cuts could berollicking "Rock 'n' ROll Jelly" features shorter and more material could have been sizzling interplay between Clarke. Jeff included. However. if you like theBeck. and Carmine Appice. One of the few 
complaints one can make about this album Outlaws. Bring It Back Alive should be an enjoyable listening experience. 
is that Clarke doesn't grab the solo 
lobotomy by pat bymes 
Mv BoY CAN'T" RJr 'TWO ANb T\\t> T06ETUER 
wrrHO!JT 1"'1«1NG. FIVE ••• 'Sic!i!N OF A a::ot> Bos•Nes5MAN· 

....----------~---~~~~-~------­
the observer

6 
You saw her last night, enjoy her now and saue $1.00... 

Today thru the-17th 
Karla Bonoff 
including: Someone To Lay Down Beside Me Home/Lose Again/! Can't Hold On Isn't It Always Love 

Karla Bonoff 
including: Someone To LayDown Beside Me Home/Lose Agaln/1 Can't Hold On Isn't It Always Love 


KarlaBonoff 
including: Someone To Lay Down Beside Me Home/Lose Again/! Can't Hold On lan'lllAlw•ya Love 

i I  
Don't miss Karla Bonoff's debut album. Timeless songs iri jewel-like settings.  

PC 34672 Karla Bonoff is a rare combination of quiet sensitivity and intelligence, ·ingredients which she brings to her music through careful insights and the almost-painful proc­ess; of putting feelings into words. 

Karla Bonoff 
including: Someone To Lay Down Beside Me Home/Lose Again/! Can't Hold On Isn't It Always Love 

Karla Bonoff 
including: Someone To Lay Down Beside Me Home/Lose Again/! Can't Hold On Isn't It Always Love 

Karla Bonoff 
including: Someone To LayDown Beside Me Home/Lose Again/! Can't Hold On lan'lll Always Love 
On Columbia Recor~s and Tapes . 
.. "COLUMBIA:· MAACA AEG 
JUST FOR THE RECORD 
. KAMM'S BfttWERY 
100 CENTER 'COMPLEX 
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 219-259-1813 I 
~ 
!
··.: 
• 
.· 
'· 


Tuesday, April11, 1978 the observer 



Academic Council accepts recommendations 
by Ann Gales News Editor 

The Academic Council yesterday accepted three recommendations for minor revisions of the Academic Manual but rejected three other major revisions recommended by the Faculty Senate. 
By a vote of 33 to 14 the Council turned down a Faculty Senate proposal setting up ad hoc review committees to deal with faculty members turned down for appoint­ment or promotion within the teaching and research faculty b:cause of what they considered inadequate procedures, inadequate criteria or violations of academic freedom. The Academic Manual currently provides a review pro­cedure only if the issue is alleged violation of academic freedom. 
Under the rejected proposal, ad hoc committees consisting of five tenured faculty members of the petitioner's college would investi­gate the case and then deliver "an opinion and rationale to the peti­tioner, his chairman and Depart­mental Committee on Appoint­ments and Promotions, the dean, provost and president." The president would "make a deter­mination of the case and deliver his decision in writing to all of the aforementioned individuals and bodies." 
University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh asked leadership of the Faculty Senate to consult with the executive committee of the Academic Council to see if any mutually_ acceptable formal review 

, KEN·'s DEN 

--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 appointments preferred 
Regualr Spedals: Mon-Tues 8-11, 25 cent Drafts. Ladies Night Wed. Y2 price mixed drinks. Happy Hour 4-7 Daily. 
NOTICES 

Stereo equipment major brand discounts on fully guaranteed, factory sealed, audio-video eqpt. Elliot Enterprises, Park Court, Buchanan. Mich. 49107. Call Niles toll free 683-0121. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc...Typed, IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287­4971. 
Tplng Dona Reasonable Rates Call8086 

Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh & back for An Tostal Weekend She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company! Call 6734. 
2-4 mo. old puppies need good home. FREE! Call 272-2520 after 3 p.m. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best'' Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free Illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, A­rizona 85011. 
FOR RENT 

Walk to campus. Home close to Logan Center for rent this fall. Enough bedroom for 5 or 6. Water included In rent. Furnished. Nice. Call 232-3815 after 5:00 
FREE RENT plus salary in exchange for housekeepIng work 4 days per week, to young married couple without children. Furnished 4 room apartment. Call 289­1264 or 289-3629. 
Two completely furnished houses for rent this summer. Acouple blocks from capus, safe neighborhood. One four bedroom, one six bedroom, approx. $HJO a month. m-3604. 
2rooms for rent summer school. $40 mo. 233-1329. 
Fine houses in good neighborhoods (Por­tage and Angela area) Reasonable rents. For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact JosephGatto 234-6688. 
FREE RENT: Furnished apt. All private, 3rooms up for married grad student. All utilities, near Memorial Hosp. NO RENT for helping 2 people in wheelchairs. 232-9128. 
LOST &FOUND 
Lost: 1Texas lnstrumentSR-11 calculator In or near LaFortune on the Wednes­day before spring break. Reward offered. Call 233-7213. 
Found: Set of 2 keys found before break. Call Observer office to Identify. 
Found a key with keys to Grace Hall. Probably lost during blizzard. Owner will have to identify key rl ng. Call Bart 1078. 
Lost: Navy blue "tote" umbrella at Sr. Bar on Sr. Women's night. I have someone else's black umbrella. Please call me If you have mine. Alicia 8117. 
Found: A pair of wire-rimmed glasses in brown leather case. Call Bob at 1694. 
Lost: Blue ND Jacket at Nickle's. Reward. Name in jacket. 
Lost gold pocketwatch Dillon-Rock area. Trememdous sentimental value. Mike 287-5568. Reward. 
Found: Pocketwatch 4-3-78 on South Quad. To identify call Tim (1161). 
Lost: Pearl ring in fold setting. In the Rock last Saturday evening. Call Tricia 
7850. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Chicago area -western sunburb-this Thursday 4-13 after 4 p.m. Call Denise 4-1-4833. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer and year­round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free Infor­mation Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Help Wanted: Temporary part-time. Select your own hours. Great pay & short hours In public contact work explaining HVD programs to home owners. Call 234-3344 or 23.H939 leave message for Dick. 

process. can be arrived at. 
The Council also defeated 35 to 6 a Faculty Senate proposal" that would have mandated an election for chairman by a department's faculty. The president would have retained his current right of making the final appointment of chairmen, but if he appointed someone other than the person receiving the majority of votes of the depart­mental faculty he would be required to provide reasons to the department for doing so. 
Among minor Academic Manual revisions approved were two that formalized procedures already widely in use within the University. 
One spelled out the right of a faculty member to be informed if he or she is under consideration for reappointment or promotion so that he or she might submit evidence of use to those making the decision. 
Another insured that reports of committees on appointment and promotion are forwarded to the deans in a form approved by the committees. 
Defeated by voice vote was another Faculty Senate recom­mendation that faculty members retired while on University commit­tees to be allowed to finish their terms. 
A series of proposed guidelines governing th1: relationship of fac­ulty members to the federal government's Central Intelligence Agency(CIA), modeled on those adopted a year ago by Harvard University, were sent to a subcom­mittee of the: Council's executive committee for reaction. Chairing the subcommittee is Dean David T. Link of the Law School, and serving with him are Robert E. Gordon, Vice-president for advanced studies, and Thomas A. Werge, associate professor of English. 
The recommended guidelines state that the University "may enter into research contracts with the CIA provided that such con­tracts conform with Notre Dame's normal rules governing contracting with outside sponsors and that the existence of a contract is made public by University ofticials," and that individual members of the University community may enter into consulting arrangements for the CIA, but must report in writing the existence of such arrangements to the dean and president. 
the CIA should report that fact in writing to the dean of his college and "should not give the CIA the name of another member of the Notre Dame community without the prior consent of that individ­ual;" that members of the Univer­sity community "should not under­take intelligence operations for the CIA;" that "no member of the Notre Dame community should assist the CIA in obtaining the unwitting services of another mem­ber of the Notre Dame com­munity;" and that questions con­cerning the application of these guidelines should be discussed first with the appropriate dean and later with the president or members of his staff, if necessary. 
After the full Council's meeting, Hesburgh asked the elected faculty members of the body to remain for consultation on the selection of a new provost. The faculty commit­tee to advise the president on this matter interviewed eight candi­dates in February and March and recently met with Hesburgh to give him its evaluations. 
The provost is elected by the trustees upon recommendation of the President, and Notre Dame's board has its next regularly sched­uled meeting May 12. 
The guidelines also recommend •to-~HI-oCH-.O-~HI-'1 that a member of the ND com­munity serving as a recruiter for 


important meeting 
* 

all obseruer reporters 
wednesda!l night 
7 pm 
observer 







Classified Ads 
K~ BM
Dear Z(alias Soobs, Stinky, Deli, etc.) 
How's JB, BJ, & PS??? Good home for 2 puppies! Call 272-2520 
Cold feet? Let me warm them up. Can 
Full color Cotton Bowl and USC foot­
after 3 p.m. 

you loan me three bucks for a pair of 
ball; UCLA, Kentucky and maryland
glasses? 
basketball pictures for sale. Sports Illus­FOR SALE 
Your "HI" roomie trated material at a low price. Call Doug 

Ei 

at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. '70 Olds Cutlass. Good shape, A-C 350 hp. $900.00 272-5513. 
On March 11, 1978, Timothy John Your blue eyes and dimple look familiar. 
Dan Seeberg, 
O'Brien younger brother of Matthew Used golf balls like new $200.00 per 100 
O'Brien [a bartender It Bridget's and NO & other prices. Call 272-Q783. 
Do I know You? 
AKS student) was killed In atragic automoclla ac:ctdent. In tribute to his loving memoryUniversal zig-zag sewing machine. Does amemorial scholarship fund has been Ill

Kevin & Terry,

stretch stitch and other fancy stitches. 
up to help get this fund off the ground,
We wish to express our appreciation for

Great condition! Make an offer. Call Bridget McGuire's Is running a spacialsuch fine coaching.
6734. 

with all profits going to the fund.
D&O's

·------­
Where: Bridget McGuire's1974 Fiat 128, blue, AM-FM, rust 
When: Tuas, Aprll11, 1978
Want to feel like you've always been

proofed, just tuned, fun to drive. 2n­Time: 7-10 p.m.
right? Want to have your ego boosted?
0003. 

All drinks half price. All profits will APOLOGY service! Just call "Scoop" sat 
Now you can during our limited FREE 

benefit tha fund. So please coma and 1605. 
party for a good causa.
PERSONALS the snon one, 
Today Is Bob Bontempo's birthday. Caoo
~~~tupid,~~~~~---­

how do i love thee? 
him at 1736 to hear his sob story, "Mylet me count the ways. 
perils with Puberty," or "How I
Pat Gunning reads Boy's Life!

uh...wait a second... 
Achieved True Happiness thru Self-Love' 
yeah, right! 

The711 Club Vote Grizz Nellist UMOC (Bieah! Gross!) 
HE FRIGHTENS SMALL CHILDREN! 
Kerry, Some people say we're cocky and ~ Congratulations on your dream come gant. They forgot bold, rude, Insolent,Ted Eichelberger,true. Yea, rah rah! Thanx for a wild and obnoxious, overbearing, annoying,

1 wanted to tell everyone you were a 

crazy weekend. 
brash, flippant, No. 1 and $25 richer.
preppie, but of course...

XO Don 
.Pangborn Hall 8-. ball Chapms Fear Not! The 5 amoebas will' overcome 
Cathy, To the boy who cried Pfaul:

adversity and conquer all challengers in

Want to go to Poland 
Sorry, Don. Thanks for being honest
the Bookstore basketball tournament.

Beefsteak 
when you knew you ware wrong. Better Attention ND-SMC girls: Sign-ups for 
luck next year.
Runtess: 
The Amazing Seven
girls division of Bookstore Basketball will

The living room is smokey 
begin April 10.14. Call Betsy 4-1-4214 

and we're all having fun Section 9:
[2:30-4:30]. Also, we naad volunteers to 

the beer bonQ Is ready 
ref and kaap score. Call Amy 4-1-5710 

Nawgame? 
now that you re 21. 
New refs? Give you~· a ...ad chance In a 
[11:00-11:30 p.m.) 

Happy 21st birthday 
Haircuts, trims, styles-cheap! SMC 4530 

SR, PH, BH, Tihsha 
~·· _____game?thahahahahahahallahahatl,_____
H ha.
Betsy 

Congratulations Mike-you were the first 
G'nloht N\ a
Rumor: One of the 5 amoebas was 

person I woke up to approve an editorial. 
arrested on drug-related charges. can 

The 'Buii~R~.
Sorry, Barb, you ware second 
the 5 amoebas overcome this adversity? 

(ft~----­
Stay tuned.
Hey Farley, 
OEI.-sT MARKEY ..-o• AND TH£ 

Thanks for the memories!! We'll miss lt. 
An Tostal is coming! All tal~nted 
1.NNU ~·· YIU .. cordi-

Love, 
all~ . ll . •at di!Hiht-with us
Impersonations (or those who think tfley

Marylou & Barb 
on l •.t. Bllcll tie, plllle.
are). Register now for impersonation.

(M.Iou & buelah) 
5:Jiiiiil.
Call KB at 4-1-46n. Rich Little, bewareil 
Trbll 


8 

Pullano keys recent Irish comeback 
by Gregory Solman leads the team in hits, walks, runs percent mental. You just have to 
I I 
Captain Rick PuUano's .466 batting mark has made him the Ideal leadoff hitter this year. [Photo by DIU Ehmann] 
Aaaodate Sports Editor scored and total bases...not bad for a leadoff hitter. Not bad for any 
Before the game begins, the big, hitter. gregarious smlle of a born Pullano jams a heavy lead donut "charmer" fJasbes constaady, as on his bat and begins Co sway It he talks shop with third baseman methoclicaily, exhaling rhythmi-Bob Oeary. &-.,he walks over Co caDy with each stroke. Don WoHe his shortstop position, yeUing play-throws some final wannup pitches fuUy Co his feUow lnftelders, along the sldeUnes. The team "C'mon, let's go!" and "Let's get gathers In front of the dugout and tough In there!" Finally, he yeUs they say a Hail Mary together, with the teUing phrase, ".500 today, Coach Tom KeUy leading the guys .500!" The Irish baseball prayer. The first pitch Is thrown, team Is after their sJnh win today. and the Irish are embroUed In their They've already fl, .en six times, tweHth batde of the season. Don and the shortstop is going Co do WoHe breezes through the first everything In his power Co see that Inning. Two groundouts [one today they even ap the score. which PuUano snares and pegs Co 
You see, Rick Pullano takes the first] and a Oy Co left. The Irish are "number one" on his jers·ey liter-up, PuUano Co lead off. ally. Pullano is more than just the He tosses away the practice bat first batter in the lineup. Baseball and strides to the plate. In the is his number one passion...his stands behind the third base line, number one responsibility. Judg-Rick's Bengal boxing brother and ing from the smile he sports, it's roommate, Mike, watches anxious-his number one pleasure in life. ly from the sidelines. Next to him, 
And. in case you don't know, the a familiar, very "Italian" looking junior captain is the number one gentleman puffs on a cigarette player of the Irish baseball team. calmly. If the player coming to bat Just ask his teammates. Ask his doesn't get a hit, he won't throw coach. They'll tell you that Rick away that cigarette until he does. Pullano is as necessary to Notre It's one of the superstitions he Dame baseball as Crackerjacks and reserves for when his son Rick Kline Field. comes to bat. 
"Let's go, let's go!" he yeUs, "I've got to hand it to may bringing his team In from the father," compliments Pullano, outfield. Today Is a big game for "He drives from Chicago for two the Irish. Not only do they want Co hours to watch me play for two lift their ream1 Co 6-6, they have hours...and he's only missed three Don WoHe on the mound Co face games since I've been playing." Valparaiso. Pullano claps his And that's been since Pullano's hands together trying Co generate freshman year, when he was enthuai.um••.hls team must cUmb thrown in by chance the second 

• Co .500 today, and H that means game of the season.He has started Pullano will have Co exert some ever since then. verbal apllftlng--weU, Co Rick Pol-PuUano faces the pitcher grimly. lano, that's just part of his captain-For a little whlle, at least, the smlle cy. will stop. The ball comes quickly 
"Sure, I admit it," Pullano off the bat and heads for the relates, ''I'm a hollerer...a morale Infielders, but it avoids the hole booster. I try to be a shot in the between short and third base, and arm when we're down." Pullano jogs back Co the bench. In 

For Pullano, that means leading the bleachers, Mr. Pullano will drag in the field, as well. And does he from his cigarette more slowly now. ever. His average is constantly It must last him two more Innings. hovering around .500, the best on "What I've learned through my the team. An ideal leadoff man, experience here,"commentedRick Pullano has reached base this year Pullano. "is that the season is too thirty nine times in fifty-eight at short to let yourself get into bats, including 27 hits. He makes slumps. You can't afford to contact without fail, striking out slump...you'll only beat yourself. only twice so far this season. He . Besides, slumps are 70 to 80
Ted 

Robinson::::::=:===:=:=:=:·====:=:=:=:===:=====================================================:=:=======================================:=========================================================:===================:=========================:=============:========================================>=============== 
Saying goodbye to an era 
John Havlicek played his last NBA game yesterday. People told me it was an emotional event. Some fans were incensed that CBS cut away from the final three minutes of the game to begin coverage of the Masters. 
Yesterday, David Thompson scored 73 points to seemingly win the NBA scoring title. Yct, last night, George Gervin scored 63 to win the showdown by 8-hundreths of a point. 

Wasn't it funny that on a day when two players combined to scored 136 points, aU one heard about was Havlicek's finale. Now I'm not trying to belittle Havlicek(which I understand is like waving ithe hammer and sickle), but this day certainly says something about the present state of the NBA. 
The first question that popped into my mind was, "Why would CBS even bother to show this game?" After all, such sports greats as Willie Mays, Mickey Mantle, Hank Aaron, Johnny Unitas, Bart Starr and Bill Russell never had farewell games shown coast-to-coast. Although Havlicek was a great player, there were better, and there were players that meant more to their teams(Sorry Bostonians). Add to that fact that, on the last day of the season with the closest playoff races in recent history, CBS was showing a game between two teams with a combined total of 104 losses and I was stumped. 
But then I thought about the way the NBA has deteriorated in recent years. I'm sure papers across the country have written up the NBA for their "Obituary" file. A large number of sports fans don't care anymore. Where is the red, white and blue ball and the three-pointer? 
And then I realized why there was the hoopla surronding Hondo's goodbye. John Havlicek is unique. He stands alone as the last link to the NBA when it was interesting and exciting. When players required more ability than jumping and foul shooting, and when players weren't millionaires. When egos were sacrificed for the sake of winning and when each team was a team. 
Those days were the beginning of the NBA's successful years. Shortly. the league would expand from 10 to 18 teams and most arenas would fill frequently. Despite having one team exert total domination over the league, the NBA flourished and prospered. 
~ut with the nagging nemesis, the ABA, hanging tough in its persistent ha. le to unify professional basketball, the NBA slowed. Quickly, anyone over ·-6 was earning a six-figure contract. Team play and the fundan ·tals of the game were thrown away for exciting individual talent. 
What the. '~BA is learning now is that the sports fan knows more than owners givt. e m credit for. The novelty of Julius Erving is wearing thin, If the NBA hierarchy doesn't realize this, then I think the fans do. 
and  the  fan~  t1t  players  who  use  more  than  their  instincts  and  
God-given abilit}  • basketball purists are returning to the time w hen  
they would rather  hack-door play than a slam dunk.  

That's why John Havlicek was given 22 farewell salutes and a 
coast-to-coast finale. John Havlicek represents everything the NBA used 
to be, and no longer is. John Havlicek represents what the fans want the 
NBA to return to. John Havlicek represents what the NBA should revert 
to in its best interests. 
All of Hondo's peers are gone. Oscar Robertson, Jerry West, Elgin 
Baylor, BiJJ Russell, Sam Jones, Bob Pettit, BiJJy Cunningham, Dave 
DeBusschere, Hal Greer and Willis Reed are names of people who are 
what John Havlicek now solely stands for -the true game of professional 
basketball. 
The attendance figures show that the present game is a mere facsimile 
of basketball. Portland, Philadelphia, San Antonio, Denver and Seattle 
are the only teams that regularly fill their arenas, and the Sixers, playing 
in a traditional basketball hotbed, only began selling seats when a guy 
named Erving qecided he'd like to play in Philly. 
Despite having good teams, New York, Washington, Cleveland, Milwaukee, Los Angeles and Golden State all have attendance problems. In New York, where the Knicks packed 20,000 fans into Madison Square Garden for every game a scant five years ago, the Knicks averaged 14,000 this year with a playoff team. 
And the financial pinch has set in. Why else would Kenny Charles, a three-year starter good enough to play on most NBA teams, find himself out on the street earlier this year with no takers. The answer is a $125,000 salary. How many teams will actively pursue Brian Taylor, one of the better guards in the league, who jumped Denver in January as a free agent? Taylor will find out how many owners want a guard for $250,000. 
The NBA owners will soon find out that the middle-class workingman will now longer shell out ten dollars a ticket to watch professional basketball. The reasons are unsure. Many sociologists and former NBA player StaP Lonve have written that an inherent racial discrimination is the underlying reasnn. This argument has merit as I discovered two summers ago trying to convince Long Islanders that a season ticket to the New York Nets games was a good but. Businessmen are very aware of the large racial imbalance in the sport (this year, 68 of the 242 NBA players are white, or 28 percent), 
So, at Boston Garden yesterday, the fans were not only saluting John Havlicek, but they were saluting a game that is gone. It is rare. that one person can outlast an era, but John Havlicek did. For that feat alone, he deserved the accolades he received. But, I'm sure the old NBA was part of those cheers, and maybe if enough people cheer, all the Howard Komives of yesterday will return. 

take each individual time at the . 
plate as a separate effort." , 
Pullano has seen each team he '~ 
has played for come up with a ~ , 
better record. His freshman year, 4 
they went 16-24. His sophomore ' 
year, 17-20. Now, as a junior, the 
team seems headed for their first 
"above .500" season in many ,, 
years. 

"What I think we have to realize 
is that we have a different ballclub 
here. The players are younger, 
more closely knit, and they're 
fighting for positions. We've 
worked hard and grown very 
close," commented Pullano, who 
himself has worked toward such 
unity, and noticed a lack of it in 
years past. 
"Last year, the team was senior 
dominated," theorized Pullano, 
"and almost all of the players were 
secure in their positions. What's 
going to motivate a second 
semester senior in a situation like 
that?" 

"This year," Pullano continued, "We're developing our own ident­ity. our own character. We've developed our own wiiming ways and attitudes. We're a team, not just a collection of individuals." 
"We look at ourselves honest­ly." claims Pullano, "We are a steady ballclub, but when we win, we're going to have to outhustle our opponents, be more aggressive and play with more confidence --and that's the key factor. Confidence has to be shown on the Rick's father drops his cigarette ball field...you just can't play lip and smiles. service to it." Pullano is smiling again, too, as 
Don WoHe Is pitching a no-hitter his teammates pound him like as Pullano comes up for the second biscuit dough as he enters the time. StlU, the Irish haven't dugout. There is nothing Pullano produced any runs, either. Pullano likes better than baseball. And stares coldly at the opposing pitch-with his talent, he could have er, and wastes Uttle time before played almost anywhere he wanted sending a hard line drive Into to · He knows this. but doesn't center field. The Captain is batting regret his decision to come here. .500 for the day. Opposing pitcher "I haven't made a better d¢cision Ted Serbin throws several times to in my whole life.'' he grins.· first Co keep PuUano close. Bob "I came here mostly for the Oeary comes Co the plate, and academics." said the finance major cracks a single Co right. All eyes with an eye on law school. "I had tum toward PuUano, who was off nobaseballscholarship. Ijusttricd with the pitch. He runs fuU tnt out." untO he dives head first Into home. ·:B_eside~." h~ admits, in ex-The Irish are up by one run, and platmng hts chotec. "I really like will add three more before the what Coach Kelly is doing with this Inning Is over. Along the sidelines, program. You can see the im­
. 
, 
/ 
~ 
provement since he's been here. He's a fine coach and a great man." 
A mediator between the team and the coach, Pullano sees a lot of Kelly. and Kelly puts much faith in his captain. After all, he certainly couldn't have found anyone with more talent or enthusiasm for the game of baseball. 
Don WoHe has pitched a three hitter. The Irish are up, 4-1, and "WoHman" Is shutting the door, Pullano chatters at shortstop, wait­Ing for the final two outs. The bail Is hit sharply Co third. Cleary fires to PuUano, who turns a double play to end the inning, and the game. 
The  Irish  are  playing  .500  ball  
again.  
"I  like  the  challenge  here,"  

related Pullano. "I know we will play well this year. and my biggest thrill is just trying to make that contribution. I take it personally." 
Pullano is the last one to leave the field. Kelly calls him over to 
the dugout for instructions for the 
next day. Pullano is all smiles, enjoying the win, and the task ahead of the team. The extra hours and worry arc just a part of the job. When he takes the "number one" off of his back. his captaincy doesn't go into the locker with it. To him it's a twenty-four hour job, a job that's constantly on his mind. 
And Rick Pullano wouldn't have it ary other way. 
Bookstore tourney to begin April 18 
Bookstore Basketball will begin next Tuesday, rather than this week, as previously announced. 
Schedules may be picked up by the team captains at Pangborn Hall, room 140, between 2 and 5 this Saturday and 7 and 12 this Sunday. 
"I think it's going to be very competitive this year," commented Tournament Commissioner Leo Latz, "Dave 'Batton's team has Willie Frye and Mike Miller, and they should he one of the favorites. Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolr .dgt: and Stan Wilcox all should have strong teams, also." 
"And then there's Bill Laim­beer's and Bruce Flower's teams," added Latz, "They should prove worthy competition as well." 
"I guess the campus has An Tostal fever." said Latz, "The spots for the tournament filled up extremely fast, and it looks to be an interesting event." 








