In the Vatican 
John Paul I assumes Church leadership 
close to people and in front of with his hands. Before him were bolizing the pope's role as patri­,clasped and shook·their hands. 
VATICAN CITY [AP) • Pope Christendom'slargest church. Most gathered a throng of dignitaries arch of the Western church. The inaugural Mass was con­John Paul I assumed the throne of past papal coronations, glittering including kings, queens, princes The simple band replaced the celebrated in Latin by ttie new pope St. Peter and leadership of the with the regal trappings of the and presidents, and a multitude of elaborate, three-tiered crown used and the cardinals, with readings world's 700 million Roman Catho­crowning ofkings, were held inside pilgrims and tourists. in papal coronations over the last and prayers in French,, Spanish, lics yesterday in solemn, outdoor the mighty basilica. John Paul wore a golden miter 15 centuries. German and English and a homily rite marked by the simplicity The new pope began the cere­and a simple gold vestment. He The choir broke into song, chant­by the pope, delivered in Latin. already a hall-mark of his papacy. mony with prayers inside the carried his crosier, the staff sym­ing, "Tu est Petrus," "Thou art According to a prepared transla­
Breaking more than 1,000 years basilica at the Alter of Confession, bolizing his pastoral function. Peter." tion, the pope said, "In this sacred of tradition, the 65-year-old pontiff built atop what is thought to be the The crowds applauded as he took One by one, the cardinals walked celebration inaugurating the minis­donned a simple white wool stole as tomb of St. Peter, the first pope. his seat on the four-foot-high up the steps of the basilica to kneel try of the supreme pastor of the the shepherd of his flock and Then John Paul, clad in gold­velvet-covered papal throne. before the new pope and kiss his church, which has been placed on concelebrated his inaugural Mass trimmed robes and bearing a The chair had no papal canopy ring in their first act of reverence. our shoulders, we begin by turning with the College of Cardinals. simple iron staff, walked into St. over it, in keeping with the pattern They received from him the "kiss our mind in veneration and prayer 
He refused to be crowned with Peter's Square, following a proces­of simplicity initiated by the new of faith," a kiss on both cheeks. to the infinite and eternal God." the traditional beehive shaped sion of 104 cardinals. They pope since his election Aug. 26 by The former Cardinal Albino Nearby the altar, erected in front papal tiara or to be carried by a emerged to the strains of a choir the College of Cardinals. Luciani of Venice laughed and of the church's steps, were such dozen footmen to the ceremony in chanting in Latin, "Veni, Creator, Italian Cardinal Pericle Felici, smiled as he greeted each prince of dignitaries as U.S. Vice President the swaying portable throne, as Spiritus," "Come, Holy Spirit." · dean of the cardinal deacons, then the church, the men who elected Walter Mondale, West German past popes had done. The new pope waved to the placed on the pope's shoulders the him in one of the shortest conclaves Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and 
Like his predecessor Pope Paul crowd of about 250,000 in the "pallium," the simple white in recent history. The new pope Canadian Prime Minister Pierre VI, he chose to have his installation sun-baked square and blessed woolen stole embroidered with often paused to chat a few mo­Elliott Trudeau. on the steps of St. Peter's Basilica, them, making the sign of the cross white and black silk crosses, sym-ments with each cardinal as he [Continued on page 6] 



server 
/ 

Vol. XIII, No. 5 a"' independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Monday, September 4, 1978 
Stresses social interaction 
Roche deems Welcome Week a success 
by Tony Pace and  interact socially. "This is not supposed to become another An  
Kathleen ConneUy  Tostal. The emphasis is social," he  
Staff Reporters  added. "We definitely would like to see  
Student  Union  Director  Bill  it become an annual event.  We've  
Roche Notre  yesterday called Dame Welcome  the first Week "a  provided the basic format for the week," Roche commented. He  
fantastic success."  Roche added  indicated  that  planning  for  
that he was pleasantly suprised by the large attendance at all of the scheduled events.  Welcome Week should be done in the spring, because it is a very difficult project to organize during  
Welcome  Week  coordinators  the summer.  
John Bonacci and Tim Coughlin estimate that the smallest crowd  Indoor and outdoor events were scheduled and entertainment was  
numbered between 1200 or  1400,  planned to cater to different tastes.  
with the "Appaloosa" concert between the Towers commanding the largest attendance with approx­imately 2300. The focus of the week, Roche  The week offered a rock band, a polka band, country/western and punk rock. The artistically pro­duced "Turning Point" was bal­anced by a showing of "Sleeper"  
stressed, was to provide a variety of opportunities for people to  and  "Young Frankenstein' in [Continued on page 2]  
Class picnics ware among the activities sponsored during Welcome Wllllk.  Seniors rucqUIInted at  
Senior Bar with food and drink,  [Photo by Mark Muench]  
Financial problems accompany dorm social space renovations  
Due  to  the  fact  that  in  some  In Sorin, structural interference  
by Janice McCormack  dorms the structure of the build­ also  presented  a  problem.  The  
Over the summer renovations in  ings had to be altered, the cost rose greatly above initial estimates.  lounge constructed by renovating three rooms on the first floor  
five dorms on campus were begun to help increase social space. Financial problems arose when the actual expenditures greatly exceed­ The final figures, which will be released early next week, are in the range of $38,000, according to Vince Fraatz, University engineer.  entailed (he knocking down and replastering of walls. One such wall formed part of the former room of the founder of the Law  
ed the originally estimated cost.  Fr.  Edmund  Joyce,  executive  School.  
The five dorms renovated were Morrissey, Pangborn, Howard,  vice-president of Business Affairs, approved a new estimate of 535,000  According to Bro. Dave Porter­field, rector of Sorin, "Not enough  
Fisher, and Sorin. On March 17 the Notre Dame Student Govern­ about five weeks ago to hefpcover the rise in cost. Fraatz commented  money was budgeted so the Uni­versity had to go into reserve funds  
ment  submitted  a  proposal  esti­ on  the  new estimate,  "Fr. Joyce  to do the additional work."  
mating the cost of the alterations at $8200.  has been very considerate about the whole deal."  When asked what progress has been made in the five halls, Fraatz  
Trustees  of  the  University  In Howard, the original estimate  responded,  "All  the  halls  are  
approved this proposal and desig­nated the money to be taken from  of the hall's renovation was 53,100. The final cost of the lounge, study  completed except for carpeting. which will take about another six  

University funds for repair main lounge, and conference room con­weeks." The reason for this delay Screams, a hard-rock punk band performed last Friday tYIInlng to 1 tenance. The company in charDJairi structed rose to $18,00(). Fraatz was the difficulty in contacting the large crowd In front of Howard Hall. [Photo by Mark Muench] the construction was Sollitt En­explained, "Due. t<;~ the wall­rectors over summer vacatioa, 
gineering Company. bearings we had to do extra work." ' according to Fraatz. 
I j 
I J ----------------------..... 
,.....News Briefs----............ 
~-===============================World 
Quake shakes German_y 
IAPI-The strongest earthquake ever recorded in Germany shook parts of this and four neighboring countries early yesterday damaging homes and a historic castle but causing few injuries. There were no reports of deaths. The quake, was measured by seismological stations in France and West Germany at between 5 and 7.5 on the Richter scale. The low casualty toll appeared to stem from the fact that the quake is focused in a thinly populated region of small, mountain villages. 



t-:.::-.. -=-=~:---:===================== National_ 
Boston's busing better 
BOSTON IAPI-This week, yellow buses carrying black and white pupils will begin rolling through Boston for the fourth fall. But for most who ride them, the violence and anger that made Boston a symbol of racial strife have faded into routine and acceptance. 
"Busing." the 'word so hated four years ago. is rarely spoken here these days. It is dead as a political issue, worn out as a rallying cry. passe even as a topic of conversation. 

Business needs education 
IAPI-Industry invests millions of dollars in efforts by university 
rc·searccrs, but the street between private business and scientific 
education runs both ways. Indiana University officials say. 
"We like to have them hire our graduates, and if the faculty has some good theoretical ideas, it is nice to interact with industry," said Eugene Weinberg. I.U.'s newly-appointed associated dean for research and graduate development. 
Who gets drunks drunker? 
INDIANAPOLIS IAP)-Responsibility for crimes involving drunk individuals extends beyond the initial incident-right back to the bar where they were served, state officials say. And under a new program, State excise authorities and police will join forces to trace accidents back to establishments where liquor is sold to intoxicated persons and hold the owners liable for the actions of their customers. Indiana will eventuall) reach a point where everyone, barkeeps and hosts of private parties alike, will be held liable for the actions of an intoxicated person of any age. 
\ 


WEATHER 
(AP]-Fair and mild nights and mostly sunny and warm days through tomorrow. Lows tonight in the mid to upper 50s. Highs today and Tuesday around 80. 

,_On Campus Today_~ 
labor day 6:30pm 
7 pm 
7:30pm 
video series, "the japanese," sponsored by educa­tional media and the dept. of modern and classical lan~uages, a/v theatre, no charge. 
organizational meeting, pre-law society, library auditorium, panel will answer questions of seniors. 
organizational meeting, notre dame rowing club, engineering auditorium, for men and women of the notre dame-saint mary's community. 
*The Observer 
ON THIS LABOR DAY ... 
Night Editor: Scoop "Goof­Off" Sullivan Layout Staff: Steve "Skiing" Odland. Margie "Bumming Around'· Brassll, Tom "Athlete" Behney, Frank "Swimming" Kebe, Guest Appearance Kathy Connelly Editorial Layout: Rosemary "(Unprintable)" Mills Sports Layout: Greg "Foot­ball" Solman Typists: Mary "Hiking" McCauley, Tom "Softball" 
Powanda, Lisa "Handball" DiValerlo, Mardi "Racquet­ball" Nevin Early Evening Typist: Katie "Bow ling" B reh I Day Editor: Kathy "Jogging" Connelly Copy Reader: Phil "B-Ball" Cackley, Reed "Wrestling " King Ad Layout: Bob "Blow-Off'' Rudy Photographer: Mark "Soccer" Muench 
--------..----:----­
.' 

Credit Union 
NDCU offers many services 
by Marcia Kovas 

The Notre Daine Credit Union (NDCU), located in the mainten­ance building northwest of Stepan Center, offers many financial ser­vices to Notre dame and Saint Mary's students, according to Ruth Kelly, NDCU manager. 
Kelly notes tht the NDCU is a non-profit organization, and as such it 'can offer special benefits as a service to the Notre Dame community. 
One of the most · important benefits offered by the NDCU is a low interest rate on student loans. "We grant student loans at very low interest rates, which is impor-
Bands to visit Notre Dame 

Music, like footballs, will be in the air this autumn when five of the six universities sending teams to Notre Dame's stadium will send bands along with them. Only Miami University, the guest on Oct. 28, has no current plans to transport a musical group. 
The visiting bands include the University of Miss·ouri Pep Group Sept. 9, University of Michigan Sept. 23, Purdue University Sept. 30, Pittsburgh Oct. 14 and Tenne­see Nov. 11. 
Notre Dame's 185-member "Band of the Fighting Irish" will perform in pregame, halftime and postgame appearauces at all home games and during a trip to Michigan State University On Oct. 7. 
Directed by Robert O'Brien and James Phillips, the band will also perform at Friday night pep rallies before games on campus and at Saturday noontime concerts on the steps of the Administration Buil­ding before marching to the sta­dium. The concert on the day of the Michigan game has been moved up to 10:45 because of the advanced kickoff time at noon. 
Debate Cou neil to meet 
The Notre Dame Debate Council 
tant to seniors about to take a job,'' 
Kelly said. · 
"They need cars, they need money for apartment deposits, and they haven't made money for four years," Kelly added. "All they need is a fast low interest loan until they begin to earn a steady income." . 
Kelly further explained that banks often ask for high interest rates on student loans, and bank loans are sometimes difficult for students to obtain. 
Other benefits offered by the NDCU include interest paid on both savings and checking accounts. Checking accounts are known as "share draft accounts." Both types of accounts earn a base interest rate of five and one-half percent plus a share of the NDCU profits. Last year the total interest rate 
averaged about six and one-half 
percent, according to Kelly. 
The Credit Union offers the 
further benefit of matching funds 
in savings account with a life 
insurance policy of the same 
amount, Kelly noted. 
Explaining the history of the NDCU, Kelly said that it was conceived in 1941 by eight profes­sors in a brainstorming session at at local tavern and got its charter from the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions the same year. 
A nominal fee is the only requirement for membership in the Credit Union, according to Kelly. "To join a student only needs to but a $5 share, and he has no other obligation," Kelly explained. "Students who are members stays members for life. and can always 

Welcome Week ends 
[Continued from page 1] Stepan Center on Wednesday. 
"Not everything we did pieased everyone," Roche acknowledged, "but there was enough variety so that everyone could participate." 
"For the amount of money Student Union invested, Welcome Week was a fantastic success," Roche said. Approximately $2000 was spent by Student Union during the week, a figure far below what was originally estimated by planners. 
Roche said that Welcome Week exposed a lot of people to the Union and what it does. "Welcome Week has shown that we're trying to do something to improve the social life," he added. "People were really involved and aware through­out the week." 
Welcome Week began with a bonfire and square dance at Saint Mary's on Monday and included concerts by "Appaloosa" and "Screams", class picnics sponsor­ed and funded by Student Union, movies, a campus-wide picnic, and a Kristofferson-Coolidge concert. 
The Polish Wedding in Stepan Center concluded the week on Saturday. The 1600 persons present were treated to Polish sausage, a polka band and a rock band. 
·---------------------------------------­
,Tryouts~ND open to all ND an.d St. mary's students
SMC 
September 4, 5THEATRE 
Washington Hall 
Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander by Preston Jones 
All Blue Grass and Country and Western Musicians and singers · who are interested in performing in the show are invited 
~----------------------------------------·
will hold its first meeting of the .-!INWMMNWMMNWY.MNINY.MNW.....MNWY.,MN'~ year tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. All interested students are 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS
invited. to attend. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vaation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notr-e Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purc:hesed for S20 per year (S 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. BoM Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class poStage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the Associated Preu. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
Close to Campus 
Apartments still auailable 2 bedrooms· Completely Furnished Complete Kitchen and Dining Room 
$.280-$300/ month Up to 4 students 
.. 

II· -6363 or 234-6647 


Student Union 
missing 9 
refrigerators 
by Michael Lewis News Editor 

Nine rental refrigerators owned by the Student Union (SU) are mis­sing. according to Student Union Services Commissioner Gary Lu­chini. 
The refrigerators had been stored over the summer in the basement of Keenan. Five large and four small refrigerators were taken from the basment sometime between Aug.22 and 30, Luchini said. 
He added that the cost of the missing refrigerstors amounts to "around $1000." "Chances are they're lost." he said. 
Student Activities Director John Reid. Dean of Students James Roemer and Director of Security Arthur Pears have all been noti­fied. 
Luchini speculated that students 
had taken the refrigerators for use 
in their dorm rooms. "Really 
they're just stealing from them­
selves," he said. pointing out that 
rental fees and the student activi­
ties fund are used to finance the 
refrigerator rental service. 
Security will be given a list of 
those rooms with rented refri­
gerators, and Luchini stated that 
the Student Union is compiling a 
list of the refrigerator serial num­
bers to help identify the missing 
ones. 
The SU ordered SO new refri­
gerators to help meet the expected .student demand. Luchini noted that these "came in about two weeks ago,'' and are still boxed in 
the warehouse. 
_..._ 
• 
Dr. Stephan J. Rogers, Jr. 
[loft], a Notre Dame fac­ulty member who Is blind, explores a newly created textured map of the cam­pus designed and con­structed by Leroy Cour­soault, who received his bachelor's degree in architecture at May com mancem ent carom o­nios. Rogers helped Coursoault choose tex­tures which could be readily differentiated by touch. Mash scrooning, sandpaper, nails and elec­trical wire are among the 18 different matereials used for the project. [Photo by Bruce Harlan] 
A textured map of the Notre Dame campus for use by the blind and visually impaired was installed in the Administration Building over the summer. 
Designed and constructed by Leroy Courseault. a recent ND graduate in architecture, the map utilizes 18 different materials, such as five grades of sandpaper, rubber car matting, mesh screens, foam rubber, and electrical wire. 
At the suggestion of the Univer­sity's Committee for the Physically Handicapped, Courseault took on the special project last spring and spent two months researching the problem and designing and con­structing the map. 
_Courseault consulted with Notre 






Egypt-Israel summit to open 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The Carter administration is shying away from calling this week's Middle East summit a last chance for peace in the embattled region, but officials warn privately of serious consequences if the Camp David meeting fails, 
Yet as Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin prepare to sit down tomorrow at the presidential retreat in the Maryland mountains, neither side has given any assur­ance that the meetings will succeed. 
Administration officials, who de­clined to be named, speculated in interviews that unless the confer­ence keeps the peace process alive, there could be an Arab summit conference which could lead to another oil embargo and Cl danger­ous shift of forces in the region. 
In Egypt, Sadat said during the weekend he considers the confer­ence "a turning point" in Middle East history. And Begin, in an Israeli radio address, called the meetings "very important," al­though he said he did not consider it a final chance for peace. 
The Israeli leader, who left for New York City on Sunday, said he was going to Camp David with "a maximum of goodwill and an open 

ROCCO'S 
BARBERS 


mind." 
The administration sources say the United States and Israel are prepared to call the summit a success if it produces merely an agreement to keep the negotiations going.
Sadat, however, is under in­creasingly heavy pressure to win some major concessions from Israel or abandon his peace initiative. He may not be able to resist those pressures any longer if he brings no prizes back from Camp David. 
Sadat's trip to Jerusalem, which launched his peace initiative last November, has been bitterly criti­cized by radical Arab states such as Syria, Iraq and Libya. A few of the most conservative pro-western Arab governments have supported him while Saudi Arabia, the re­ligious and financial leader of the 
...,·Of'
-' 
Monday, September 4, 1918 

the observer 

Dame's only blind faculty member, Stephen J. Rogers, professor in the General Program of Liberal Stu­dies, in choosing materials which could be readily differentiated by touch. ­
Five different types of campus buildings--academic, residential, religious, support and athletic--are distinguished by different .grades of sandpaper. Main entrances are indicated by small nail heads. Walkways made of electrical wire are distinct from vehicular drives on campus made of a thicker artists' tape. 
Notre Dame's two lakes are made from ribbed car mats which even feel wet. And the campus's many wooded areas are made of a coarse foam rubber. 
Rogers, who spent four years at Notre Dame as a student before returning in 1961 to join the faculty of the General Program, found that the mental picture of the campus he had developed over the years turned out to be fairly accurate. 
"But with Leroy's maiJ, I learned some things 1 never knew before," Rogers said. "It's a marvelous success as a tactile instrument." 
Rogers plans to make a tape recording to guide new students· and visitors in exploring the map. He wants to record characteristic sounds of different campus spots-­buses on the roadways, bells near. Sacred Heart Church, ducks near the lakes--to further bel students orient themselves. 
Esmee Cromie Bellalta. landscape architect and associate professor o 
architecture who supervised the project, emphasized that the map was not designed exclusively fo the visually handicapped even though it was suggested by them. 
The map is brightly colored and the legends appear in type as well as braille. Sighted people who are familiar with the campus may not recognize campus landmarks right away. They might be surprised to see a fat cross where the Golden Dome should be, and a winged shape instead of the ACC's double domes. But to a blind person. a building's outine is more important that its raised profile. 
------~--------------------~------~~~~--~ 
But Saudi Crown Prince Fahd's !lttitude became increasingly harsh in recent months. In late July, Fahd, according to sources, told Sadat it was time to abandon his peace initiative because of Israeli intransigence. The sources said 
Fahd was trying to arrange a summit meeting of Arab leaders to restore unity among them. 
At that point, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance went to the Middle East with his summit proposal. Sadat quickly accepted the invita­tion, hoping that the United States would put forward its own peace plan and pressure Israel to accept it. 
American diplomat Alfred Atherton visited Fahd and Jordan's King Hussein, and managed to win both leaders' endorsements of the summit. But the Saudis made it 
Arab world, has remained publicly • plain they regarded Camp David as neutral. the last chance. 
~Anyone wishing to participate in ACTIVITIES NIGHT '78 
on Monday 11 Sept 7·12 pm 
must be at a mandatory meeting , Wed. 6 Sept. at 7pm in the LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ---Please bring the authorization slip from student activities with you, 
The 1978 DOME 
will be distributed to overseas students on Monday, September 4th in the DOME office, 
third floor LaFortune between 1 and 5 p.m. 

No Pomp and Circumstance 
The simplified "coronation" of Pope John Paul I follows and extends a positive tradition set by his predecessor Pope Paul 
VI. By discarding unnecessary pomp, the pope Is simultaneously retaining the dignity of his office and moving closer to the people. 
From the days of the early sixties, the Church has stressed that it is the people; not merely an organization governed by the Vatican. By allowing masses to be said in native languages, by having the priests face the people during mass, by using extraordinary ministers in the distribution of holy communion; the Church has tried to involve its members in the celebration of mass. More recently it has tried to involve 
laymen · in the day-to-day workings of parishes. 
These and other changes-in the Church have united people within their individual parishes. They prove that the way to unity is not merely strong leadership, but by actively drawing people together. 
While it may not be possible to actively 

,. 
draw all Catholics together, the pope can strive to be a universal figure who can be identified with by all members of the Church. One way to do this is to rule from within and not above its members. By discarding the gold tiara, elaborate throne, and canopy over his chair during the inauguration ceremonies, Pope John Paul is drawing less attention to himself and placing more emphasis on the mass. He is acting not as king, but as the pastor of the world -a figure who serves instead of being served. 

Observer EDITORIALS 
~P. 0. Box Q!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Sup;gestion••• 
Dear Editor: 
Last Saturday, August 26, I spent the day at Regina Hall helping the freshmen unload their belongings and move into their rooms. Although it was hard work, I enjoyed it because it gave me a chance to be of service to some very grateful parents and to meet some new people. 
The purpose of this letter is to suggest that, for next year, each men's dorm at Notre Dame· be assigned to a women's dorm: on either the St. Mary's and ND campuses, to help the girls uniOa.d their personal belongings. It would certainly speed up the moving-in process, and save many fathers from lifting heavy items that for their own well-being they shouldn't carry. 
And, as a fringe benefit, it's and excellent way to RJeet people in the first c_ouple days on campus. 
I'm at a loss as to who would coordinate this; but I would imagine that either the freshman orientation committee or the Hall Presidents Council could run this project. It just seems to me ~at this is an idea worthy of seri~us consideration. : 
Steve ('.all•h•n 
I 

Boycott ur~e(l 
Dear Editor: 
This letter deals with an issue which concerned many people on campus last year--the boycott of Nestle products due to the market­ing of infant baby formula in the. Tllird World. 
All too often, anytime a boycott 
is mentioned, people rush to join it 
without finding out anything about 
the situation. Perhaps I can shed 
some light on the case. 
I graduated from Notre Dame 
last year and am presently serving 
in Cameroon (Central Africa) as a 
member of the Peace Corps. 
Having lived in Africa for several 
months, I have been able to see 
first-hand some of the activities 
relating to the Nestle involvement. Some observations--while there is nothing wrong with powdered baby formula in fact, it works quite well in the U.S. -it is important to ·remember that most Third World 
nations are different from America. 
In most places, there is no 
dependable source of clean water 
and there is no access to any st~rile 
equipment in which to mix the 
formula. Therefore, many babies 
are exposed to dangerous germs at 
a time when their bodies are not 
ready to handle them. 
Furthermore, the formula is 
expensive--mothers are encourag­
ed to buy the powder when the 
money could be better' spent else­
where. Also, many women cannot 
read and thus do not mix the 
formula properly. This deprives 
the baby of the proper nutrition. 
The saddest fact is that the 
Nestle employees are aware of 
these problems but feel no compul­
sion to change their policies. They 
hire women to stand on the street 
comers exhorting women to use the 
powdered formula even though 
breast feeding would be cheaper 
and better for the baby's health. 
Many times these women have 
little or no medical training. 
The infant mortality rate in Cameroon has increased signifi­cantly in the past few years, as it has in other Third World countries. In the face of this evidence, I urge strong support for the boycott. 
.w.c.a.. 
a...t'71 

*The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving the P.O. Box Q notre dame and saint mary's community Notre Dame, ln. 
The Observer is published bv students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectivt>ly as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of, varying opinions on campus, through letters. h encouraged.· 
EDITORIAl BOARD Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Expcutive Editor Barb Langhenry ExPcutivP Editor Rosemary Mills E:d1tonal Editor Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley Samt Mary's Editor Ann CaiPs News Editor Mike Lew1s NPWS [ ditor DianP Wibon News E:ditor Ray O"Brien Sports lditor Bryan GruiPy f Pature·. Editor Ooug Christian Photo Editor 

Mard1 NPvin Produrtvm Manager John Tucker Busines~ Manager Bob Rudy Advert1smg Manager 
Monday, September 4, 1978
Vol. XIII, No. 5 
No Divorce for Singles 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~art buchwald 
WASHINGTON • Being a mar­ried man. I always believed that single people living together had the best of both worlds. Whenever I met someone in a leisure suit with a gold chain around his neck and a beautiful blonde on his arm, whom he introduced to everyone as his "roommate," I must admit I was wild with envy. 
But things are tough even for unmarried couples -tougher in some ways. I discovered this the other day when Harlequin came to see me without an appointment. Harlequin is 30 years old and until his visit I always believed he had the perfect setup. His "roomie" was a sweet thing named Saralee, and they shared a lovely apartment overlooking the Potomac. They had a pet dog named "Pothead," and the thing they both used to brag to me about was that they had all the benefits of being married, without any of the hassles. That's the part I envied the most. 
Therefore, when Harlequin told me what he came to see me about I was truly shocked. 
"I want to break up with Saralee," he said. "That's too bad. But what's the problem?" "I don't know how to go about it." 
"You just tell her, I guess." 
"That's easy for you to say," Harlequin said. "But you're married and if you want to break up with your wife you ask her for a divorce. Since we're not man and wife what do I ask for?" 
"I guess a separation," I sug­gested. "Easier said than done," Harle­quin whimpered. "If I do that 
she'll want to keep the apart­
ment." 

"Whose apartment is it?" 
"It was originally my apartment, 
but as far as she's concerned it's ours. Why should I give up the apartment just because I don't want to live with her anymore?" 
"I know apartments are hard. to find, Harlequin, but I'm not a lawyer. When you start talking about property settlements you should seek legal counsel." 
"It won't work. When you married people want a divorce, each of you hires a lawyer to thrash things out. Lawyers don't want to have anything to do with single people who are breaking up." 
"Why don't you just tell Saralee that you don't want to live witti her any more and you want her to get out?" 
"You don't know Saralee. She looks like a lamb, but she fights like a tiger. She'd throw all my stuff out the window." 
"But didn't you have some understanding when you moved in together? That if either party wanted to call it quits there would be no hard feelings?" 
"Of course we did. All singles say the same thing. But after you live together for three or four years the vows don't mean anything. The oae who is rejected acts worse than the victim of a divorce." 
"It's funny," I said, "I thought the singles life was all cream and strawberries.'' 
"Boy, you are dumb," Harle­quin said. "I've put up with fits of jealousy that no married man would stand, for. When you're married you can at least flirt around with somebody and the 
l 
I DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
/M:U, iJECAJSC ~~HIS ~.I/)iiW1" ff 70 BE f!EAL­LY SPECIAL, Y'I:NXIJ'! I t.a45 
7HINKIN6 OF 71-IREC lXlZEN 
IAI-IfTC UUES SHAFf:o UI<E A 8/lDaJIEAf<r.. 

other partner doesn't get too shaken up if you don't make a big deal of it. But when you're living with somebody, if you so much as dance with another person, your roomie makes your life miserable. I'm too young to be stuck with one woman," he said, practically in tears. 
I didn't know how to console him. "Look, this is a crazy idea, but-why don't you marry Saralee?" 
"What would that accomplish?" he screamed at me. 
"Once you're married you can ask her for a divorce and then turn the whole problem over to your lawyer." 
He kissed me on the head and said, "I knew you's come up with a solution. I'll go out and buy the wedding bands today." 
Observer EDITORIAL page needs 
Staff writers 
and 
call Rosemary 
layout staff
7471 or 6865 

r I 
I 
I 
I ' 
.. 
. . 

Mondly, September 4, 1971 the observer 
5 


-: 
The Evelyn \ Wood_ challenge: 
Bring the\ ! toughest textbook or reading material you own to tonight'sFree Speed Reading Lesson and we'll show you how to read it faster, with comprehension! 
I J 
I 
I 
i 
I I 

If you're like most people, you're We'll show you how to read probably skeptical about our faster, with comprehension. ability to make Speed Reading And, remember, we're not using work for you. our materials ... books that you 
O.K. Tonight we'd like the may feel are too easy ... we're opportunity to prove, as we have using-yours ... the toughest to millions, that you can read you can find! faster with comprehension. If you're open minded and 
In fact, we challenge you want to improve your reading challenge you to come to tonight's ability, we challenge you ... Free Speed Reading· Lesson challenge you to begin tonight, armed with the toughest text­to make reading work for you! book or readi~g material you own. 
• 1 

SCHEDULE OF FREE LESSONS 
. I 

• ! 
• ! I EVELYN WOOD ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION 
:READING DYNAMICS 


CENTER 
3:30 and 7:30 PM Tomorrow (Tues.) 
Make reading work for you/ 

• • ..
'c-c.. . " 
' 
.·. 
Monday, Sepflmber-4, 1178
the observer 

Migrant workers strike; defy deadline to move 
BELMORE, Ohio [AP) • With the tomato-picking season reaching its peak, striking migrant workers vowed yesterday to defy a Labor Day deadline to vacate a four-acre tent city where they are being fed and sheltered. 
Growers, meanwhile, said they would mount a caravan today to dramatize their opposition to strike leaders who have been urging migrants for 11 days to leave northwest Ohio tomato fields and let the crops rot. 
Strike leaders claim some 1,500 migrants are refusing to pick the· tomatoes in protest of low wages. The leaders say hundreds more already have left Ohio. 
The dispute has turned violent at times, with pickets arrrested, strikers sprayed with pesticide, and 

• a cross burned near the 15-by-20 foot tents that have been home to hctween 100 and ISO strikers for up to II days. Leaders of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee said they will ask a judge tomQrrow to block the eviction notice issued by William L. Kelley, their landlord and also the mayor of this small farming town. Kelley. who said he was pressur­ed into evicting the strikers by anonymous telephone callers, said he will also take the matter before a judge tomorrow. "It's going to be tied up in the courts for a couple of weeks at least,'' said Kelley, acknowledging that the peak of the tomato harvest would be over by then. 
Putnam County Sheriff Bob Buetler estimated that one-fourth of the 8,000 migrants who came to his county have left because of the strike. Farmers, however, say they have enough workers remaining to harvest Ohio's multi-million dollar tomato crop -second only to California· s. 
''The farmers don't have a 
problem with the true laborers,'' 
said Lewis Klass, spokesman for 
area growers. "Our problem is 
with these outside agitators who 
are trying to separarte the farmers 
from their laborers." 
Baldemar Velasquez, 31, who attended high school and college in this area and founded the strike group 11 years ago, said the migrants want a 60-cent hike in their current hourly wage of $2.65 and 10 cents more than the 25 cents they get for each three-pound hamper of tomatoes they pick. 
In addition, Velasquez said the migrants want to become a third party in annual contract negotia­tions between growers and the large canneries. The canneries set the prices which allow the growers to pay their labor. 
One producer that is a primary target of the strike, Libby McNeil & Libby Inc., has not raised prices to farmers in three years, and the growers say meeting the laborers' demands mean they could do no better than break even on this year's crop. 
Buchanan needs assistance 
Volunteers are needed to assist Jim Buchanan, 74, who severely injured his spinal column in a recent accident. 
Buchanan, of 1346 Bissell. off Eddy St., had previously lost his left arm in another accident. He must be helped into a brace three to four times each week. 
Anyone interested in volunteering to help Buchanan can call Jack Foley at 1535 or get in touch with Volunteer Services. 

. '' 
.... ..: 
:I.O.•i 
by Michael Molinelli 



Fire alarm installation proceeds 
----------------------------------------,
r---------------------------------------.I I
FREE Car Wash (with coupon) Get Acquainted Special at OO<'S STANWD  !t ~ ~ I ,  
1102 S.Bend Ave.  2340707  

complete American and foreign car repair 



by John McGrath 

Eight Notre Dame dorms have been earmarked for the installation ~: fire alann systems. 
1'!Je dorms--Lyons. Howard, .:.;een-PhUilps, Dillon, Alumni, iarley, Zahm, and Cavar.augh--are the last residence halls to be equipped with fire alarms, accor­ding to Bro. Borromeo Malley, Notre Dame fire chief. They represent the final stage in the installation on campus, he said. 
The systems are similar to those already in operation in other cam­pus buildings, and are pro­Farley, was built in 1937, at a time when fire alarm systems had not yet come into common use, Malley explained. He also pointed out that the danger of fire at the time of the halls' construction was much less than it is now. 
"It's not the buildings .. .it's what students bring in that causes the trouble," Malley said, pointing out that all the buildings were basically fire resistant. Some students "put enough in their rooms to cremate themselves," the fire chief said. 
Malley, who has been fire chief for 39 years, stressed that the system is being installed now 
danger. 
Malley also expressed concern 
over the recent rash of false alarm ·calls and ased students not to "cry wolf' with the new systems be­cause, as Malley put it, "someday 
the wolf will come." 
John Paul I 
assumes leadership 

[Continued from page 11 
King Juan Carlos and Queen 

Sofia of Spain, Prince Rainier and 
Princess Grace of Monaco, Argen­
tine President Jorge Rafael Bidela 
and President Elias Sarkis of 
Lebanon also attended. 
Standing by were an estimated 

10,000 security men in the square 
and sharpshooters posted on near­
by rooftops, sent by the Italian 
government to protect the digni­
taries and spectators from any 
possible terrorist attack. 
Before the ceremony began at 6 

p.m., noon EDT, police dispersed a 
crowd of leftist demonstrators 
gathered near Castel San Angelo, 
five blocks from the Vatican. 
They were protesting the pres­

ence of Argentine strongman 
Videla. Police picked up 30 youths 
for questioning. . 
Another group of demonstrators 

threw firebombs at cars parked 
near Premier Guilio Andreotti's 
residence near Piazza Navona, 
across the Tiber River from the 
Vatican. 
Police sealed off all streets 

leading to the Vatican, blocking the 
streets with armored cars. Heli­
copters buzzed overhead to check 
out the crowds. 
Police swept the city before the 

ceremony, inspecting trash cans 
and mail boxes, anywhere bombs 
could be hidden. 
The ceremony was beamed live in color to 48 countries in North and South America, Western Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia. 
Earlier in the day when he gave his weekly papal blessing from his window, the pope drew a parallel between himself and seventh cen­tury Pope Gregory I, who asked for a "life saver" to help him from sinking while ruling the Roman Catholic Church. 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
.... ... -' 
~ 
•. ' 
.. 


' 
. 

-~· -· 
Ray 0'
Brien:=============:=======================================::::::==:==========:================================================ 

All-Opponent Team 
:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·COnt. 
The fourth USC player on the All-Irish Opponent team, Dennis Johnson will be called on to bark signals for an inexperienced squad. Johnson garnered lOS tackles last year earning All-West honors. 
Tom Foerstch is the only legitimate All-American candidate on a weak Air Force squad. By season's end Foerstch should be the all-time leading Falcon tackler. In the last two years he has been in on 347 stops includipg 2S tackles against the Irish. DEFENSIVE BACK· Tom Graves has been plagued by injuries during his three years at MSU but it he can remain healthy in 1978, he should rank as one of the top college defenders. At 6-1, 21S pounds, Graves has the size and speed to handle any receiver. 
Jeff Delaney proved he is a tough competitor last year as ND struggled against Pitt's stingy defense. The three year letter man owns 12 career interceptions, a statistic the Irish quarterbacks will keep in the back of their minds. 
Roland James earned All-SEC honors in only his sophomore season as he became Tennessee's second leading tackler. This speedster should have no trouble keeping up with any long ball threat. 
Joe Montana will have an eye out for Russ Calabrese this Saturday when the Missouri Tigers enter Notre Dame Stadium. This senior led his team in interceptions with six and added four fumb'le recoveries, enough to earn him All-Big 8 laurel&. SPECIALISTS-Navy's Phil McConkey is a threat any time he gets under a punt as he finished third in the nation in that department in 1977 (13.S yds. per return). Also an excellent receiver, McConkey scored Navy's only TD versus the Irish last year. 
Misso•Jri's Leo Lewis has led the Big 8 in punt returns for the past two years. Lewis is also a a long ball threat at his wide receiver position. 
Pitt's Joe Gasporivc kept the Panthers close last year against ND with punts into the ozone. He finished the year with a 40.9 yard average and is looking to top that this year. MSU's Ray Stachowicz averaged 40.2 yards per punt, good enough to earn him All-Big 10 honors in only his sophomore year. 
Frank Jordan booted 14 goals last year and finished as the Trojans leading scorer. A strong footed kicker, Jordan is dangerous from anywhere inside midfield. 
Pitt's Dave Schubert boasts 6S points in his campaign on eight of ten field goal tries and 41 of 43 on extra point conversions. 
Lacrosse club to meet 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club kicks off the fall season on Monday, September 4 with an organizational meeting at 4:1S in the ACC Auditorium. Anyone interested in joining the club is encouraged to attend and no experience whatso­ever is needed. An instructional clinic will be held for 10 days prior to the opening of the fall season's regular practices to familiarize new players of the fundamentals of the 
~ 
ti-------------------------------F-il-th-y-ri-ch_a_u-nt-i-sn_o_w_p-re-~·r-in_g_t_o_m-ak_e, 
-v 


NOTICES 

Now accepting students for studio voice lessons. Master's Degree in vocal performance and member of National Association of Teachers of Singing. 277-2287. 
Mom and Dad need two GA tix for Purdue.$$Brian 8671. 
Earn your allowance. Sell Avon in your dorm. Call 7819. 
Special Discount to all ND and SMC students on automotive parts. All you need is your I D card. Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric, 1101 E. Madison, So. Bend. 
ND-SMC Ski Team organizational meet­ing Sept. 6, 7:30 pm in LaFortune theatre. Newcomers welcome, team members must attend. 
FOR RENT 

Furnished room for rent in country house 8 minutes from campus. 277-3604. 
Garage for rent 2 blocked from campus. 
277-3604. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost Saturday August 26 one navy blue flowered zipper case containing two strands of pearl necklace, one pair gold anchor errings. Keepsake, liberal re­ward. Vicinity St. Mary College campus, Notre Dame, Morris Inn and adjacent parking lot or Howard Johnson Restau­rant in Roseland or parking lot. Call A. Purcell, 284-5712, or Mrs. J.F... Purcell (219) 923-4238 collect. 
WANTED 
Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay big bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8150. 
Wanted: Tickets to Missouri game. Student or GA. Will pay$$$. Call Mark, 1419. 
Need 2 GA football tickets for Missouri and/or,Michigan. Call Mike at 7838. 
WANTED: Missouri tickets. Please, please. please call Barb at 7951. 
Desperately need 6tix for Michigan. Call Mike 1083. 
Wanted: 2-4 GA tix for Purdue. Please help! Call Laura at 6731. 
Wanted--1 Purdue ticket. Will trade for ANY other gameticket--plus pay. Call Kathleen H. 4954. 
HELPPP! Need Ga's & student's for Michigan & Pitt.$$$Mick-1763$$$. 
I desperately need 4-6 GA tickets for Purdue game. Please help! Call Mac 6551. 
Need 2 Missouri tix. Call Jerry 8446. 
Needed: 2 Michigan GA tickets.. Will pay $$$--Mike 1478. 
1 student or GA ticket to Missouri. Call Todd 1211. 
Need 10 tix for Missouri and/or Mich games. Call Lynch 232-0550 before 9 p.m. 
Wanted: 2 or 4 Michigan tickets. Call 8106. 
Need 2GA tickets for Missouri. Call Sue 
7409. 
WANTED: Four G.A. Michigan Game. 
Call collect 712-732-2842. 
WANTED: 2 Student Season's Football Passes. Call 283-8037. 
.• --------------~--.~--........ =:-.. 
sport. 
Presluent Tim Walsh and Co­captains John Gray and John Romanelli will cover the areas of last year's success, the lacrosse alumni game/weekend, the open clinic, and the intersquad scrim­mage/party which will conclude the short fall season. The topic of the spring trip to a tournament will also be discussed. 

annual pilgrimage to Notre Dame football game. Requires 1 GA Pitt ticket. Money no object! Call Scoop at 1m . 
WANTED: Missouri tix--up to 6 needed. Call Mike 7838. 
Desperately need Michigan Tix. Will pay big$$. Call Bill 289-4796. 
Wanted: GA football tickets for Purdue game. Call 272-8527, evenings. 
WANTED: Purdue tickets. Barb 7953. 
Deperately need 2-4 GA tickets for Purdue. Call Amy 4-1-4677. 
I need two student tickets to the Michigan game. Also two GA for my parents. Please help. Call Laura 277-3076. 
I need 6 Pitt tickets now. Tony 1068. 
WANTED: Any number of Missouri tickets. Will sing Missouri fight song on request. Mark 288-9988. 
Bartender, Waitress, Dishwasher, Pizza maker, supply-man, Positions open ND­SMC students welcome, full and part time employment, hourly pay--minimum wage plus, Apply in person--NICOLA'S RESTAURANT, 809 N. Michigan St., close to campus. 
Will pay ANY PRICE for 2-4 Michigan tickets. Griff 234-2329. 
Need two GA tickets for Missouri Call 1842 ' 
+---------------­
Need 1 GA Missouri ticket Call Mary 4359 
Need 2 student or G.A. tix for Missouri game Call John 1996 
Wanted: tickets to Missouri game. Student or G.A. Will Pl'Y $$$$$$ Call Mark, 1419 
Need two GA tickets for Missouri game Call Mike 232-D550 
Desperately Need 2-4 GA tickets for Purdue Call Dan 8252 
1need 3GA Michigan tickets ! Name yourPrice ! Pat 1020 
Taking advantage of the temperate climate and lighter workload ·during the first week of school, these athletic young man engage 
in a bit of volleyball. [Photo by Mark Muench) 
Wanted 2 or 4 Michigan tickets Call Bob 289-1412 
Big Bucks • Need 2student or GA tlx to Missouri Game Call Stave at 1857 
I need tickets (3) Any game other than Miami. Call 1535 
Desperately need many tickets for Pur­due game. Call Paul at 1403. 
Desperately need 3 GA Pitt tickets. Call Sandy 8136 
Need 2 GA/Student tickets for Parents for Missouri Game Call Marsha 4826. 
Need 1ticket GA or Student for Missouri Please Call Betsy -4366 
Wanted: 2 GA Purdie tix. Can pay big bucks or trade 2Pitt tickets. Debbie 8150 
Wanted: tickets to Missouri game. Student or GA. Will ~Y $$$$Call Mark, 1419 
Need 2 GA football tickets for Missouri and/or Michigan. Call Mike at 7838 
Wanted: Missouri tickets. Please,please, please call Barb at 7951 
Desperately need 6 tix for Michigan Call Mike 1038 
Wanted: 2-4 GA tickets for Purdue. Please help! Call Laura at 6731. 
Wanted -1 Purdue ticket. Will trade for ANY other game ticket-plus ~y. Call Kathleen H. 4954. 
Help! Need GA's & Students for Michi­gan and Pitt. $$$$$$Mick-1763 $$$$$ 
I desperately need 4-6 GA tickets for Purdie game. Please help! Call Mac 6551 
Need 2 Missouri tlx Call Jerry 8446 

Needed: 2Michigan GA tickets. Will ~Y $$$$$-Mike 1478 
1student or G.A. ticket to Missouri. Call Todd 1211 
Need 10 tix for Missouri &/or Michigan Call Lynch 232-()55() Before 9 p.m. 
Wanted : 2 or 4 Michigan tickets Clll 8106 

.. 
J 


Notre Dame 
rugby club 
holds meeting 
The Notre Dame rugby club held 
their first organizational meeting 
last Tuesday. At this meeting the 
team selected Mike McGlynn to the 
council to fill a vacancy created 
over the summer. Secretary Herb 
Glost announced the fall schedule, 
with the first game slated for 
September 16 at Ball State, with 
the home opener against Michigan 
the following weekend. 
President Mike Roohan announ­
ced that plans for the spring trip 
were well underway, with the trip 
scheduled for March 11-24. Sever­
al fund raising activities were also 
discussed. . Practices have begunand will be 
held every Tuesday. Wednesday. 
and Thursday at 4: IS behind 
Stepan Center. Anyone interested 
in the ~lub, regardless of ex­
perience is invited to come out. 
Ott-campus 
activities tonight 
A meeting for all those interest­ed in working with off-campus activities will be held today at 3 
p.m. in the Student Government officeon the second floor of LaFortune. 
The purpose of the meeting is to coordinate off-campus activities make plans for upcoming events. 
Persons unable to attend the meeting should leave their name, address, and phone number with the Student Government secretary or with John Fitzpatrick at 232-4904 (evenings). 
~--· 
Irish hold final scrimmage; 
Tom Domin out with injury 
by Ray O'Bdeo Sporta Eclltor 
With the season opener· against Missourri only one week away, the defending National Champions . staged their last preseason scrim­mage Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. The first team's per­formance was mediocre for most of the three hour workout, although there were some flashes of the brand of play that earned Dan Devine's crew the number one ranking in 1977 as the Blue squad outlasted the White team 42-20. 
If the Blue unit looked vulnerable at times, it vould have been because the second teamers were emulating Missourri offense better than the Tiger players could have themselves. Lou Pagley had a pretty good day for a player that is not even listed in the yearbook roster. The senior prep team quarterback wasted no time direct­ing his cohorts 74 yards on the opening drive for a touchdown and a 7-0 lead. The drive was capped unexpectedly when Greg Knafelc fumbled a field goal snap and proceeded to toss a 23 yard pass to tight end Dennis Grindinger, who beat Mike Whittington and Randy Harrison to the end zone. The drive consumed over 6:30 on the clock as the first squadders had trouble containing the outside run. 
Joe Montana promptly ignited the Blue squad with a drive of their own mixing the run and pass game as Heavens carried the last 14 yards of a 67 yard drive tying the score at 7-7. Montana used quick pops to tight end Kevin Hart very effectively reminiscent of the Montana to MacAfee combination that was so successful last year. 
Minutes later the starters were on the board again via a halfback option pass from Jime Stone to Pete Holohan that covered 29 yards and caught the defense completely by surprise. Joe Unis converted the extra point as the first quarter ended 14-7 in favor of the Blue squad. 
The starting defense finally got on track as linebackers Bob Golic and Steve Heimkreiter lead the charge. Dave Wavmer set up the next Blue touchdown with a twist­ing 35 yard punt return leaving the ball within eight yards of paydirt. Two plays later Ferguson cashed in with a five yard blast making the score 21-7. 
Pagley, looking relaxed and very efficient on the quarterback option, continued to give the starting defense fits as he ran for big yardage and handed off to fresh­man Pete Buchanan, who did some 
damage  of his  own.  When  not  
running  the  opeion,  P-agley  hit  
Dennis  Grindinger,  taking  the  

White unit across midfield. One play later Pagley caught freshman Steve Cichy blitzing and dropped off a pass to Dan Stone who carried it 28 yards to the three yard line. Pagley took it in himself two plays later on a two yard sneak closing the gap at 21-13. 
Tom Gibbons set up the next score for the Blue squad with a 27 yard punt return. Jerome Heavens and Ferguson went to work from there taking the ball inside the twenty. Joe Montana showed the form expected of a Heisman Trophy candidate as he connected with halfback Jim Stone for 4 yards and the fourth Blue touchdown in the first half. Joe Unis closed the scoring with 
a 36 yard field goal that safely 
crossed the bar with four seconds 
left in the first half. 

While Pagley took a breather, Grey Knafelc picked where the other prepper left off, splitting the oppositions secondary. Buchanan continued to pound out yardage. The White squad scored the only points in the third stanza with a little razzle-dazzle of their own. Halfback Joe Wozneak took a pitch from Knafelc and tossed a 16 yard pass to flanker Mark Norman, who made a spectacular catch snagging the ball out of the outstretched hands of Blue defenders. 
Rusty Lisch engineered the last drive of the game for the Blue squad carrying the ball himself for big yardage. Pete Pallas ended the drive on a two yatd blast, the "sixth Blue touchdown In regulation time. 
Irish coach Dan Devine was less than ecstatic about his team's last scrimmage. "At this point you're never really satisfied," explained Devine. "Today I wasn't satisfied with anything except the play of the Irish wing
White squad. Pagley, Knafelc, casualty, as
Buchanan and Grindinger did a super job." non-contact Pagley finished the afte~noon those things 7-13 and· one touchdown. commented 

back Tom Domin became Notre Dame's first major he tore cartlledge and underwent surgery Friday. 
injury is just on of that can happen," Devine. Without 
Grindinger hauled in three passes Domin's services the Irish are for SO yards and a touch down while virtually bare at the wingback slot. Buchanan grounded our 42 yards Pete Holohan looked sharp in his on 16 carries. new starting role. "Waymer made 
Montana was accurate on nine of sophomore mistaked last year at 17 passes including one touchdown that position,'' continued Devine. strike for the Blue team. Ferguson "This year he would have been and Heavens each notched JS'yards twice as good a receiver but we on six and seven carries respectively can't afford to move him back to 
The first major injury struck offense." With the academic loss Notre Dame's team last week as of Speedy Hart and Ty Dickerson, Tom Domin tore a cartiledge and the Irish coaches will be hard underwent surgery on Friday. pressed to find able bodies. "The loss of Domin in virtually a Other players that did not see action but should be ready for the opening clash with Missourri are Joe Restic, Mike Calhoun Leroy Leopold and Tim Huffman. Tom Vandenburgh will miss the entire season with pinched nerves while Scott Zettek's condition remains in doubt. 
The kicking duties have been split between Joe Unis and Chuck Male. Male cleared the end zone on two kickoffs while Unis was 7-7 on extra point conversions in addition to his 36 yard field goal. On defense Joe Restic got off two punts over SO yards while freshman Harry Oliver nailed a 53 yarder.

Ray O'Brien~=================================================================================================================================================================================================================:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::.:;::::=::: 
The 1978 All-Opponent Team 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:::::.:·:·:·:·:::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::.:-:::.:=:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::::::;:::::::;.;:;:;.;:;:;.;::.:-:-:-:-:=:-:-::::;:;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::.::;::······· ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: The ITIS. hEye 
The Irish will face a schedule that includes six teams that have been named in various top twenty lists. With this tough schedule comes outstanding pcrsonel including some of the finest players in .the country. The list looks like a Who's Who directory for college football. So that you will know who to liik for on the ticld this year and be able to identify the player that just made that great play, here is my version of the ALL-IRISH OPPONENT TEAM. 
SPUT END The Irish have the privilege Qf facing two of the best this year in Gordon Jones and Kirk Gibson. Both are wilily seniors who have three letters under their belts. Jones hauled in 45 passes for 793 yards last year running his total to 88 for 1564 and 18 TDs. The All-East and third team All-American selection scored Pitt's lone TD against ND last year. He is also one of the most dangerous punt and kick returners in the nation. 
Gibson missed three games last season and still managed 22 snags for 531 yards (24.1 per catch). In three years the 4.3 forty yard speedster has caught 70 aerials for 1541 yards and 17 scores. Gibson also signed a six figure contract with the Detroit Tigers and played Class A baseball for them last summer. You sec football is only a hobby! 
TIGHT END -You won't' have to wait long to see one of the nation's premier tight end's and heir apparent to Ken MacAfee's All-American position. Kellen Winslow will bring his 6-6, 240 pound frame to South Bend this Saturday. An All-Big 8 selection in 1977, Winslow grabbed 25 passes for 385 yards putting him in position to be the best at his position in 

I. Mizzou history. With an excellent build for blocking, Winslow also manages a 4.8 time in the forty. 
Steve Gaustad from Pitt is no one to shicker at as he boasts 31 receptions for 514 yards and nine TDs in 1977. 
OFFENSIVE TACKLE -If it wasn't for an injury that caused Bill Dufek to sit out last season, the 6-4, 242 pound Wolverine would be one of the hottest prospects in college football. In his sophomore year Dufek was mentioned on All-American teams and earned All-Big 10 status. Another speedster, he does the forty in just 4.9 seconds. 
Anthony Munoz is another from a long line of USC gargantuan offensive linemen. The three letter man will be quite a challenge for ND's front four as he towers at 6-7, 280 pounds. Munoz, an All-West performer is a cherished pro prospect. 
Matt Carroll from Pitt is a four year starter that has given Dan Devine's learn nightmares since the days of Tony Dorsett. Carroll earned second team All-American nonmination by The Sporting News last year. 
OFFENSIVE GUARD -Pat Howell is another manacing Trojan that has been preseason tabbed as the best in his field. At 6-6, 255 pounds, the Howeii-Munoz combination is going to make some opponents wish they had never seen a football. 
Rick Bott is a shining star in an otherwise mediocre Navy lineup. This three year letterman was an All-East performer and has all the equipment to make that read All-American. 
CENTER-If it wasn't for the Irish's Dave Huffman, Rob Shaw would be getting a lot more press attention·. Tennessee's Shaw boasts All-SEC honors and three varisty letters. The 6-4, 230 pound lineman is coming off a spring injury that required surgery but is 1eported to be in excellent shape for his senior campaign. 

QUARTERBACK -Some say Rick Leach is the most dangerou~ college
OFFENSE 

quarterback around and is getting most sportwritcrs' votes as the SE Gordon Jones PITT preseason Heisman favorite. Leach has started since his freshman year and earned All-Big 10 honors in the last two 'lnd second team
TE Kellen Winslow 
All-American status in 1977. He is the all-time Volverine leader in passing yardage (3001 yards), total offense (4666), TD passes (31) and
MIZZOU 

TDs running (22). Criticized for his inability to pass, Leach has improved OT Bill Dufek MICH on his 32 percent accuracy his first year to last year's 52 percent completion rate. The Irish were also subjected to his baseball prowess last 
OT Anthony Munoz year as he earned Big I 0 honors in the second sport. Surely no Notre Dame fan has forgotten freshman phenom Mark
usc 

Herman. Herman pulled off a near upset against the Irish last year splitting the secondary on 24-51 passes for 351 yards and three TDs. By
OG Pat Howell USC 
season's end this Boilermaker was second in the nation in passing yardsOG Rick Bott NAVY (2453) and fourth in total offense. If freshman mistakes are eliminated this year (27 interceptions), Purdue opponents better look out! 
QB Rick Leach MICH Ed Smith, Bob Leszcynski and Dave Ziebart arc three other signal . callers to keep an eye on. The first two are comming off sub-par seasons RB Edd" L 1 G as Smith led the Big 10 in passing in 1976 and Leszcynski's 1976le ee very T performance against ND (21-45, 294 yds.) that led to a near upset has not R B Charles Wh "te USC been forgotten by Irish coaches. Ziebart is a junior that is not afraid to let 
I the ball fly as he hit on 140-298 passes for 1563 yards in 1977. 
RB Russ Davis MICH i RUNNINGBACK-Russ Davis was voted the MVP of the 1977 Wolverine team as he racked up 1092 yards bringing his career total to 370 carries for 1867 yards and IS TDs. Davis runs a 9.8 hundred yd. dash.
C Rob Shaw TENN 
Charles White led the PAC 8 in rushing last year as he amassed 1478 yards holding up the famous tradition of the USC tailback.DEFENSE Eddie Lee Ivery's 97 yard kick return touchdown versus the Irish was "th MIAMI one of the few bright spots in the Yellowjackets 69-14 drubbing. Ivery'sDT Don Sml 900 yards for the season was a team record. Davis's runningmate Harlan Huckleby and Tennessee's Kesley FinchDT Melvin Land MSU are two other explosive backs that can't be taken lightly. 
DEFENSIVE TACKLE • Don Smith is likely to become Miami's mostDE Hugh Green 'PITT prestigous tackler ever and when you look at some of names on that list you have to be impressed. At 6-S, 248 pounds, Smith has all the tools a DE Mackel Harris G T coach is looking for. Last year he recorded 97 tackles including ten sacks earning him All-South honors and an All-American honorable mention 
LB Ron Simpkins MICH nomination. 
Melvin Land has improved every year at MSU where he has picked up . J h three letters. Last year this senior smothered 102 runners and is ready to LB DenniS 0 nson top that in his last season. 
USC DEFENSIVE END -Hugh Green was considered by many to be the best 
r: h freshman football player in the nation last year. An All-East and secondLB Tom roertsc A.F. team All-American selection. Green made 88 tackles in his rookie season including 11 tackles and two sacks against ND. This Pitt performer has a DB Tom Graves MSU glorious career ahead of him if he can stay healthy. Mackel Harris led Georgia Tech in tackles last year with 107 stops. He 
DB Jeff Delaney PITT will be ever so ready to see those Notre Dame players faces after last year's embarrassment. 
DB Russ Calabrese 
LINEBACKER -.J{on Simpkins may be the best linebacker in the country MIZZOU this year. An All-Big 10 selection last year, the Michigan junior was credited with 174 tackles, ten sacks, five recoveries and four blocked DB Roland James passes last year. Irish ball carriers should become very familiar with this 
All-American candidate come September 23. TENN [Condoaed oo pqe 7] 


