-

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 89 Thursday, February 23, 1978 
I&M power cutbacks start Friday 
Duggan: 
Cold, conservation efforts 
SMC closing 


prompt early curtailments 
now a possibility 
[~J --Mandatory power cut­supply level. by Marti Hogan 
backs will begin in South Bend In other developments yester­Editor in Chief tomorrow, three days earlier than day: 
and previously announced, Indiana and -National guardsmen carrying Je8R Powley Michigan Electric Co. (I&M) an­unloaded M-16 rifles patrolled St. Mary's Editor nounced yesterday. southwestern Indiana as utilities I&M, the state's second-largest began moving coal from non-union 
"Right now we have a 50-50 electric company, said cold weather mines. No violence was reported, chance of closing,'' Saint Mary's and sagging conservation prompt­and state officials said 350 of the President John M. Duggan an­ed the earlier need for the curtail­600 guardsmen on duty might by nounced last night after Indiana ments, which will affect 351,000 released by today. and Michigan Electric, Inc. (I&M) electric customers in the northeast­· -Layoffs forced by the energy 
decided to cutback 50 percent of its em quarter of the state, including crunch actually dropped to about electricity for schools. the city of Fort Wayne as well as 2,800 as 500 workers returned to 
Saint Mary's has at least ten more South Bend their jobs at a piant in Mitchell, days before it must consider clos­The announcement means that Ind. ing, according to Duggan. Five almost one million homes, busines­-Gov. Otis R. Bowen, who said 
days into the ten-day period, which Saint Mary'.s students may soon experience mandatory lights ses and industries spread over Tuesday that Indiana's conserva­would be Monday, SMC will have out. [Photo by Beth Cutter] almost three-quarters of the state tion efforts were being "under­to make a tenative decision on If SMC did have to close, spring could. He (Duggan) could be right, will be living and working under mined by a continued climate of closing, he said. break would begin officially on the · but I would really be surprised.'' reduced power. Public Service indecision and inaction" in Duggan expressed concern that the closing date. It is also possible Notre Dame is in no danger of Indiana (PSI), the state's largest Washington, said he received as­I&M could only give the school two Duggan said, that school may closing, Riehle explained, because utility, and Hoosier Energy, serv• surances that President Carter 
or three days notice of its closing reopen during the 'time scheduled the SO percent cutback will not ing rural electric cooperatives in considers the situation serious. date. "Then we would ask the for spring break. affect the University that much. about 40 southern counties, already At Indianapolis, Charles Mazza students to vacate as soon as In the case that the College "It will only be a 12.5 percent have implemented the cutbacks -of the Indiana Employment Secur­
possible,'' Duggan stated. He said would remain closed for longer cutback for us," Riehle said, "and 50 percent for schools, 25 percent ity Division said energy related he would take into account that than the period allowed for spring we could absorb that without too for businesses and industries and unemployment grew to 3300 yes­
students would need time to make break, students might have to much difficulty.'' 15 percent for residences. terday, up 400 from Tuesday. arrangements and the school would make time up in Saturday and Because of the success of the 40 The I&M cutbacks were expect­However, the figure included 500 try to help with such things as possibly even Sunday classes, percent; cutbacks already made at ed, but not before Mondav~ employees of Carpenter Body 
arranging for buses into O'Hare. Duggan said. St. Mary's, Duggan is convinced However, I&M spokesman Vince Works at Mitchell who were laid off 
The biggest problem with clos­''Co-ex classes would present a that SMC can continue to operate LaBarbera said the utility's stock­indefinitely Monday. The com­ing, Duggan noted, is that SMC problem," he admitted, "but I at SO percent as long as I&M allows piles of coal will drop to the 40-day pany, the largest manufacturer of would not be able to tell students understand that public utilities can it to. ''Additional cutbacks of a level tomorrow, triggering the cur­school bus bodies in the nation, is when school would reopen. mandate that Notre Dame close." serious nature'' will now be imple­tailments ordered by the Public scheduled to resume production 
"Everyone would be on a standby Fr. James Riehle, director of mented in accordance with the Service Commission. He said the today after a three-day shutdown, basis," he said, adding that stu­energy conservation at Notre cutbacks would be fully imple­work the first three days of next
latest cutback. Duggan cited lights 
dents would ·be contacted about Dame, disputed Duggan's state­out a particular hour one mented by Saturday, but business· week and then operate at reduced
at as 
the opening date through the mail. ment saying, "I don't see how they example of the new cutbacks. es and industries should begin production next Thursday and cutting their power use tomorrow Friday. morning. "We picked up a few more 
"We don't seem to be getting extremely scattered layoffs,"' the voluntary conservation," Mazza said yesterday. The largest LaBarbera said. "In the first eight number was 60 at several plants in 
Two groundskeepers suspended; 


others question procedure 
hours today (Wednesday) the the Evansville area. But Mazza by Diane WUson out. Mason stated that the University is not dealing with them temperature was eleven degrees said more wide-spread layoffs may Senior Staff Reporter punishment was "mild" consider­fairly. He said that the "one way warmer than the first eight hours come this weekend, especially with ing the "extremely serious" offen­street" that the University is on, is Tuesday, but the load was only the I&M cutbacks. 
Notre Dame groundskeepers ses they committed. not fair to the groundskeepers. He down six-tenths of one percent. "Tf af}yone's !Zoing to lay people have been angered and upset by Patton said the groundskeepers continued that they are ''tired of ''That means somebody is out off, they'll probably do it at the end the recent suspension of two of in question were ordered to shovel playing the University's silly there running full steam." of the week or the beginning of the their members. The suspeliSion out the reflecting pool in front of games.'' They want action, not The state's other three electric week,'' he explained. was "unjust and unfairly exe­Memorial Library by hand. He "letters from Mason." generating utilities, Southern James T. Smith, Bowen's execu­
cuted," according to Jim Patton, continued that the groundskeepers According to Patton, the Indiana Gas & Electric, tive assistant for police matters, NO groundskeeper.. felt that the job was groundskeepers at Notre Dame Indianapolis Power & Light and said national guardsmen are carry­
Patton stated that the two "ridiculous because the snow was have not been saying anything, Northern Indiana Public Service, ing rifles in the coalfields because groundskeepers were suspended like ice, and the University has even with all of the controversy said they were in no immediate there is more potential for trouble Tuesday without any previous war­pay loaders for that sort of thing. •' [Continued on page 4] danger of dropping the 40-day [Continued on page 2] nings or reprimands, and that the He said that the University would official reprimand procedure issued not let them use the machinery for by the Notre Dame Personnel the reflecting pool, although they Department was not followed. and in the past. 
The procedure states that any Because of the suspension, other employee who disrogards or vio­groundskeepers have been trying lates "any University policy, rule to talk to Personnel about the or regulation'' should first be given problem. Patton is afraid that ifthe an oral warning. The second step University "gets away with this is a written reprimand that is also once, what's to keep them from placed in the employee's personnel doing it again?'' In trying to talk to record. The third step is a three Personnel, Patton stated that his day suspension, without pay. If the group has "gotten a run-around" same offense occurs ~gain the even though they have followed the employee may be dismissed imme­correct procedure. diately. According to Patton, the first 
Thomas Mason, vice-president group went to their supervisor, who for Business Affairs said that the went to the department head, who suspension was in accordance with then went to Personnel. Patton University regulations. He con­said that Personnel sent them back tinued that there are certain of­to the department head. The fenses that warrant immediate groundskeepers group wants to suspension because of their ser­talk to Personnel. not on a one to iousness. Mason stated that in this one basis, which is what Personnel particular case the offense was requires, but as a group, where serious enough to warrant the they all know what is said. suspension. Fred Freedman, assistant direc­
The offense was extraordinary tor of Personnel said that he would Mason said, because the suspen­only talk to individuals, not the ded groundskeepers first refused to groundskeepers as a· group, be­obey an order from their superior cause that is the rule. and then left their job without The groundskeepers are angry, The New Keenan Review will open next fricYy this ye~r include "old f~vorites, new t~lents and telling their supervisor or clocking Patton said because they feel the ~nd SaturcUy nights in W~shi~gton H~ll. T~lents speci•l stars." (Photo by Beth Cutter] 
_-_. ;. . -.. : ··~· .· .... ~,. ... 
; --·-. -~~~~~~~~~~~..._........~.._......._..........,....,..;___..;;.__.--' 


the observer Thursday, February 23, 1978 
~News Briefs--------~ 
t:==:==:~:::=:::::~:::=:::::=============World 
Che_fs cook chicken quick 
TOKYO •• The six Chines chefs knew how to fix the chicken fast and hot, ju~t like the cooks at your local bucket-chicken emporium. But the Chmes had to kill their birds first. China's official news agency Msinhua said it took a half-dozen master chefs in the city of Chengtu ju~t two minutes, four seconds to prepare and serve the Szechuan dtsh Cubed Palace Jewels--from cackling chicken to spicymouthful. 
r===========================::::: National 

B-1 project scrapped 
WASHINGTON •• The House reversed itself and gave final Congressional approval yesterday to a request by President Carter to stop construction of the last two prototypes of the B-1 strategic bomber. The House voted 234 to 182 to go along with the Senate in scrapping the B-1 project. 

Daily News to .fold 
CHICAGO •• The Chicago Dally New•, the city's only afternoon newspaper, will stop publication permanently on March 4, its publisher aru:ounced yesterday. Publisher Marshall Field said that since 1974 the paper had lost S21.7 million, while circulation fell from 397,598 to 329,078 during the same period. 

Weather 
• 

.t>artly cloudy today; highs around 30. Fair and cold tonight; lows in the mid teens. Partly cloudy and a little warmer tomorrow with highs is the low 30s. Fair and cold Saturday through Monday. Lows in the teens Saturday and 5 to 10 Sunday and Movday. Highs in the 20s. 

~On Campus Today_---...J 
12:15 p.m.  mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom.  
3:30p.m.  computer class, program utility routines for tape (purt), sponsored by computing dept., 115 ccmb.  
4 p.m.  seminar, "selectivity in hydroxyl radical reactions in the aromatic compound," by dr. stten steenken, conference rm. radiation lab.  
6p.m.  orientation, information night for sociology, social work & anthropology majors, sponsored by socio­logy, social work & anthropology depts., smc dining hall no. wedge rm.  

7 p.m. meeting, neighborhood study help program, spon­sored by volunteer services, mem. lib. aud. 
7 p.m. symposium, "aspects of african culture: tradiotion & change," sponsored by art gallery, nd art gallery. 
7 p.m. general meeting, world hunger coalition, Iafortune l-ittle theatre. 
7 p.m. demonstration/lecture, "e.s.p.-fact or fiction?" by professor donald kline, sponsored by howard hall cultural commission, howard hall. 
7, 9 & film, "pink panther strikes again," sponsored by freshman class, eng. aud., admission $1, also Feb.
11 p.m. 
24. 
friday 
12:15 p.m. biology travelogue, "soviet central asia: the mountains," by dr. theodore crovello, 278 galvin aud., everyone welcome. 
Jrs. to register for events 
All juniors planning to attend the Junior Parents' Weekend Cocktail Party, Presidential Dinner or Closing Breakfast must register either tomorrow from 2 to 8 p.m. in LaFortune and 9 to 11 p.m. in the Main Concourse of the ACC, or Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. in LaFortune. Tickets for the events will be distributed at registration.
.. 
Tutors needed 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program still needs tutors for Monday and We<..nesday after­noons and evenings at the follow­ing centers: McKinley, 2:10 to 3:3;p.m. Kennedy, 12:45 to 2:15 p.m.; St. John's, 12:40 to 2:15 
p.m. and Clay Grade School, 5:30 to 7:30p.m. 
Transportation to the centers is provided. Interested students should call Maggie Brittan at 4-1-5260 ro Rick Van Beveran at 287-6372. 
The Cocktail Party for juniors and their parents will be held tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in the Monogram Room and Main Con­course of the ACC. 
On Saturday·, the Junior Class Mass will be held at 6:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The Junior Parents' Weekend Committee recommends early seating, since the Mass will probably be crowded. 
Following the Mass, buses will provide transportation from Sacred Heart to Stepan Center for the Presidential Dinner, scheduled to bGgin at 8 p.m. All seats at the dinner will be assigned. 
The Closing Breakfast will be held in Stepan Center, not in the North Dining Hall as previously announced, and will begin at 8:30 
a.m. on Sunday. Seating at the breakfast will be random. 
Information regarding the Colle­giate Workshops, scheduled for Saturday morning, will be distri· buted at registration. 
For mor€ information, contact John Simari at 8595. 


Workshop identifies goals, needs for hall j-board members,rectors 
by·Laurie Lee Foas 

A workshop dealing with the educational use of the hall judicial boards was held last Monday in the Center for Continuing Education. The meeting, which was requested by hall rectors, attempted to iden­tify and discuss the goals and training needs of J-Board members and to demonstrate an effective decision-making model for use at a hearing. 
The workshop began Monday morning with a meeting of the hall rectors. Included was a presenta­tion by a residence hall profes­sional staff from Northern Dlinois University. According to Sr. Vereen Girmscheid, Badin Hall rector, the workshop was very successful and worthwhile. 
Crovello to show slides of trip 
Dr. Theodore J. Crovello, who visited Soviet :entral Asia last fall on a 45-day seed collecting trip, will show slides ~f the botanical expedition during two upcoming sessions in the Biology Travelogue series at Notre Dame. 
The presentations will be held on. Feb. 24 and Apri114 from 12:15 to 1 
p.m. in the biology auditorium, room 278 Galvin Life Science Center. 
Chairman and professor of the biology department, Crovello was project leader of the American team of botanists who visited the Soviet Union under a subproject of the US-USSR Joint Commission on Environmental Protection. Cro­vello showed slides of the Central Asian lowlands last Friday. He will present slides of the mountains on Feb. 24, and Moscow on April' 14. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editor: Chris Slatt Layout Staff: Tim Hamilton, Bart Corsaw, Tom Monroe, Jim Rudd 
Editorial layout: Maurenn Flynn, Greg HedgesFeatures Layout: Leo C. Hansen Joel HarringtonSports Layout: Paul Steven­son Typists: Gwen Coleman, Katie Brehl, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Marian UlicnyCopy Readers: Ann Gales, Jack Pizzolato Ad layout: Greg Trzllpek,
J.P. O'Connell Pbotographer: Beth Cutter 
"The presentation gave us more insight into the running of other university residence halls," Girm­scheid said, "and it provided lots of background information for us." 
The judicial board representa­tives met in the afternoon to discuss the role of a judicial board in the educational process, the impact of environment and peers on behavior, and the goals and training needs of the judicial boards. The Northern Dlinois University staff gave a demonstra­tion of a decision-making model, involving some of the meeting's participants. 
Howard Hall J·Board Chairman Jay Gendron viewed the workshop as informative. "It was good for training people to make deci· sions," he remarked. "However, I think most of the people there were chairmen and had enough experi­ence to know how to handle problems.'' Gendron concluded that ''the workshop was beneficial, not from the point of t{l!M v of clarifying university treatment, but in dealing with decision making.'' 

Guards escort coal trucks 
shifted from excort duty to short patrols and stationary security at such spots as overpasses and intersections. No guardsmen were stationed on mine property since owners of non-union mines still operating have provided their own security, Smith said. 
William J. Watt, Bowen's ener­gy expert, disclosed that shipments from non-union mines have been moving since last Saturday, with state police proding security. 
Watt said Bowen received a telephone call from Jack Watson, special assistant to President Carter, "to emphasize that despite what congressional leaders say, the administration shares the govern­or's perception of the seriousness of the situation." 
Watson said Carter was still hoping for a negotiated settlement to the 80-day coal strike and was taking undisclosed steps to push that in the next two days. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ($1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notrw Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notrw Dame, Indiana, 46.556. 
The Observer Is • member of the Auoclatecl Press. All npro­ductlon rights are reserved. 
this friday and every friday 5 :15 mass & supper 


I . ~-9t communi:ta (w/r.~) wdet:Me 
..............................................................!i 
[Condnued from page 1) with coal being hauled from non­union mines. They are carrying 
ammunition, but the guns are 
unloaded, Smith said. 
About 600 guardsmen were on 
duty, including 250 activated 
Tuesday, and the number of state 
troopers in the area was increased 
from SO to 100. 
Smith said 350 guardsmen 
mobiled last week to provide escort 
service for coal trucks may be sent 
home by today unless trouble 
develops. 
Smith said guardsmen have 
WSND to air ta-lent hour 
Beginning this Sunday, WSND 640 AM will be broadcasting a student talent hour each Sunday evening from 11-12 p.m. for the remainer of the semester. 
Jim Hoffer and Jim Geselbracht from the Nazz are working with WSND on the program. Hoffer and Geselbracht will be recording the acts before they are aired. 
All acts must be musical --either vqcal or instrumental. The perfor­mers must be Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. Anyone who has an act that they would like to submit should contact Jim Hoffer, (7101), Jim Geselbracht, (8229) or WSND (6400). 
MD 


plenfilnt alkr?!ali~e 1 

............--------~----------------~---.----~--------------------------------------~----~ 
Thursday, February 23, 1978 the ObS8fY8[ 3 
~ ~------------.U~~~~~~~----~ 
CLC considers keg proposal, hall life survey 
by Kathleen ConneUy Staff Reporter 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) decided last night to endorse -proposals requesting that a campus-wide survey on residential life be administered and that the University omit the directive in duLac prohibiting kegs on campus. 
The residential life survey propo­sal, if approved, will be admini­stered by the Counseling Center under the direction of the Office of Student: Affairs. The Counseling Center has already given the survey to several halls at the request of the rectors. Those halls will not be asked to repeat the survey. 
Computer analysis will be used to compile and correlate data to give profiles of the individual halls and of the campus as a whole. The results will be used by the rectors and by the CLC as a basis for further action to improve the quality of residential life at Notre Dame. 
The survev will cover areas such as social ~rientation, athletics, academic achievment and social justice concerns. 
The CLC also discussed the possibility of recommending that the keg directive be omitted from duLac as a means of facilitating sociai interaction. 
Several members of the council opposed the proposal as presented because of various ambiguities that they believed could possibly cause legal problems. Fr. Thomas Talla­rida, rector of Zahm, stated that if the question ef whether or not to allow kegs is left up to the rectors there would be vast differences in the treatment of the issue in the halls, which could cause problems. "It would create a disunity -there has to be some kind of unity,'' he said. 
Bender replied that there can be no official University policy on alcohol due to the question of the University's liability under Indiana State law. 
The problem of social space was brought into the discussion when St. Ed's rector Fr. Mario· Pedi commented that he favored allow­

ing kegs in St. Ed's because the the University "use its resources hall could accomodate them, but and influence to work for a lower­that at a dorm like Grace, a keg ing of the drinking age in Indiana.'' party might be more difficult to contain. 
Rector evaluation "Last month 2 kids in St. Ed's had a keg, and as a punishment The CLC also discussed the 
they had to paint the study lounge. possibility of advising that a pro­I think what they were doing was gram for the evaluation of rectors all right, but I have to abide by be initiated. Fr. Eugene Gorski, what is in duLac," he added. rector of Howard, will formulate a 
An additional proposal that will proposal for discussion at the next be voted on at the executive working meeting of the CLC. meeting of the council next week is Student Body President Dave a recommendation by the CLC that Bener suggested the possibility of 
Fr. Tallarida last night opposed the proposal to drop the prohibition of kegs on campus. [Photo by Beth Cutter) 



UMW refuses latest offer 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The soft coal industry refused last night to accept an offer by the United Mine Workers' (UMW) bargaining coun­cil to settle the 79-day coal strike based on a tentative agreement 
reached earlier with  an  indepen­ 
dent coal producer.  
Labor  Secretary  Ray  Marshall  

said the Bituminous Coal Operators Association (BCOA) "declined to respond" to the union's offer which he presented to the industry bar­gainers. 
Marshall also said the industry "declined my invitation" to join in face-to-face negotiations with the union. 
Government officials said there would be a meeting at the White House early today "to determine the future course of action." 
Sources familiar with the nego­tiations said, however, the govern­ment was prepared to begin the process of facilitating contract agreements between the union and individual BCOA member com­panies, a move that could lead to the breakup of the employers bargaining group. 
Earlier the UMW bargaining council promised to accept any individual or industrywide offer to settle the strike based on a tenta­teive agreemtne reached with Pitts­burg & Midway Coal Mining Col. The council had accepted that agreement by a vote of 25-13. 
Union officials all but ignored the proposal and the UMW's 39-mem­ber bargaining council was expect­ed to formally reject it during a pre-bargaining session with Marshall. 
A key district leader of the union told reporters that binding arbitra­tion would deny union members their "constitutional right" to vote on a contract proposal. Kenneth Dawes, an opponent of UMW President Arnold Miller, also said industry executives were ''pig­headed people who will not sit down in good faith and negotiate." 
Dawes' statements emphasized the split in the union and the tenuous grip that Miller holds over the membership. Miller has not commented on the BCOA's call for arbitration. 
Asked about the prospects for a settlement, Marshall told a White 
' .. ,, ­
. 
House brieting, "I hope for it. You can't tell at this point.'' 
But presidential press secretary Jody Powell, citing the strike's worsening economic impact, said the government "cannot permit the stalemate to continue indefinite­}y. " 
Meanwhile, there were reports that a major coal producer was threatening to break from the 130-member BCOA and negotiate its own settlement with the union if the associa~ion was unable to quickly negotiate a strike-ending agreement. A large independent producer, Pittsburg and Midwayy Coal Mining Inc., reached a tenta­tive agreement with the union on Monday. 
The threat of such action by a BCOA member increases the pres­sure on the organization to end the impasse. 
The White House has warned of government intervention -possibil­ities mentioned are the seizure of the mines or a back-to-work court order to end the strike later this week. However, no precise dead­line for such action was set as officials awaited the outcome of the new round of negotiations. 

Energy Secretary James Schlesinger warned that "even now conditions are deteriorating" in the coal dependent states of the Midwest and Northeast where power cutbacks are spreading and the threat of mass job layoffs increasing. He predicted "severe difficulties" by April if the strike isn't settled soon. 
The joint negotiating session at the Labor Department was the first face-to-face meeting for the two sides in the dispute since talks collapsed Saturday following union rejection of what the industry said was its final offer. 
, .. ' 

-
having the CLC set up the criteria for the evaluation. Gorski pro­jected that the evaluation proce­dure would not be ready until next year. 
Also deferred for discussion were proposals for a legal assis­tance program for students and a program for evaluation of services on campus. 
The legal assistance program is the result of a study done by Notre Dame law student Terrence M. Johnson. The plan would provide legal services for students for a fee of $4 per year. 
The services evaluation is a carry-over from SLC meetings of last semester. Since that time, several areas listed for evaluation, such as security and disciplinary procedures, have been or are in teh process of being examined. Areas of concern remaining include stu­dent activities, campus ministry and the Place Bureau. 
The CLC will also vote on a recommendation to increase and improve social space in the halls. Joe Gill, executive coordinator for the Student Government, outlined f a presentation given at a Board of Trustees meeting requesting that actions be taken on the problem. ''The only way to get social space, is to construct it, which means knocking out walls,'' Gill said. 
A local construction company estimated the costs of . creating social space in Sorin at $1,600. Residential rooms woul be altered for the purpose of making larger areas for parties and other activi­ties. Students would be moved to other halls such as Carroll or Holy Cross. 

senior bar offers more ~ 
wavs llian one ../"­to JJave you mo~··· 
ded 



the observer Thursday, February 23, 1978
4 

Guest prof. teaches Econ. 

,, 
~i by Anne Bacble Staff Reporter 
Yugoslavian Professor Branko Horvat is teaching a three-credit economics class at Notre Dame this semester in just six weeks "be­cause it had to be squeezed into my winter holidays," he explained. Horvat, a full-time professor with the Faculty for International Trade at the University of Zagreb, has previously taught in the U.S. during his semester breaks. 
Streeten speaks on basic needs 
[Continued from pageS] mented, and described this con­dition as a "vicious dualism." "The difference between the employment approach and the basic needs approach can be com pared to devastation bombing as opposed to precision bombing.'' Streeten described the basic needs approach as different in that "it does not deal with double negatives such as 'reducing unem­ployment,' but is more positive in scope. as 'providing for basic needs.' It concentrates on specific problems, groups. and concepts, and does not rely on encompassing ,~cncral terms, although they. are impnrtant to the analysis of the situation." Attempting to illustrate this approach, Streeten said that a gap exists in some countries between the basic human needs level and' 
the actual level of production and 
individual economic security. "The basic needs approach tries to 
till in that gap by reducing required 
resources and increasing available 
.. 
resources. 
Streeten will speak again tomor­row at 3:30 p.m. in room 242 of O'Shaughnessy Hall on "Policies toward Transnationals.'' 
& pure sugar cinnamon glaze US 31 (Dixievvay) Nor1h in Roseland 
272-7433 across from Holiday Inn 
***********~*~****** 

MIDWEST BLUES i PRESENTS I • 

I I I 
! A SPECIAL BLUES SHOW I I WITH i 


IiiA!BERTCOLLiNS 
I AND THE ~ 
!I JIMMY JOHNSON 


IL~:':~-~!~--­

jwAsHINGTON SAT FEB 25th HALL 1 at 9 pm I I
I PRICE $2 I 
I I ALL TIX SOLD AT DOOR (ND -SMC ID REQUIRED)
I . 
I I 
. I 

'Albert Collins••• the prem-iere. blues uitarist on the We~t Coast' 
Horvat's course is ~n the political 
economy of socialism, and was 
originally designed to be a gradu­
ate-level course. But since there 
were so few graduate students, 
senior Economics mi,jors were also 
invited to sign up for the course, 
which meets Wednesdays and Fri­
days for extended periods to fulftll 
the requirements for a three-credit 
course in just six weeks. 
Horvat feels the class is going 
"k"o ay, and commented on how 
"industrious and interested" his 
students were, "especially the 
undergraduates.'' The professor, 
who has two doctorates, picked up 
English while studying at the 
post-graduate level in England. He 
flies back to Yugoslavia next week, 
but the student's finals are not due 
until two weeks later. 
"It's an international course," 
Horvat explained, ''and we have a 
wonderful postal system, so the 
students will mail their essays to 
me in Yugoslavia." Horvat said he 
will then mail the grades to the 
University, adding that he has done 
this before with no problem. 
Horvat was invited to Notre 
Dame by Economics Department 
Chairman Charles Wilber, who 
said he is very pleased with the way 
the course has worked out, and 
with the reactions he was heard 
from other students and faculty 
members. 
Symposium tonite 
A symposium examining "As­pects of African Culture: Tradition and Change" will be held row from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. Parti­cipants will include Moira Marti Geoffrion of Notre Dame's art department, James Bellis of ND's sociology and anthropology depart­ments, Charles Geoffrion of IUSB's political science department and James Stewart of NO's English department. 


'A Touch 
of the Poet' 
to open 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre is currently producing its first play of the second semester, "A Touch of the Poet" by Eugene O'Neill. The play will be presented in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's on Feb. 24 and 25 and March 2, 3, and 4. 
Tickets for the performance are $2.50 each, $2 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff. For all ticket information, call 284-4176. 
''A Touch of the Poet'' is the last play Eugene O'Neill completed, a part of his projected series on one family. The play is set in Boston in the year 1827, and tells of Corne­lius Melody, an immigrant Irish war hero, who must work as a poor tavern proprietor. 
The play will be directed by Julie Jensen, who joined the Drama Department's faculty last fall. Jensen most recently taught at and received her doctorate in theatre from Detroit's Wayne State Univer­sity. 

Keller lectures on woman's roles 
by Molly Woulfe Staff Reporter 
"How can anyone tell you what role you're going to play? That's your job, Walter Keller, assistant professor of psychology at St. Mary's, told a small audience last night in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. The theme of his lecture, sponsored by the SMC Women's Awareness Series, was "Ytm're Role as a Woman, and How it May Change." 
According to Keller, the father of three daughters, a change in women's roles is "both healthy and long overdue." In order for women to find more satisfying roles in life he ecouraged students to have more self-awareness, improve thier their communication abilities, and form a new system of values. 
"The only rudder I know of to steer ourself through the chaos we've created lies within you," Keller remarked. "I believe if you find and assert yourself, growth occurs." 
"Effective communication, to me, involves a true dialogue and mutual respect," he added. "We need to change values to guide us without hindering us." 
Keller commented that attempts to remove typical feminine stereo­types from society have created others, citing the case of women 
BEER 

Featuring the finest in hickory smoked barbeque -cooked over an open pit with special sauce 
HAPPY HOUR 4 -7 
1132 S. Bend Ave Phone 289-0639 
4 -3 am Daily Closed Sun. and Mon. 
who are downgraded for choosing 
to be wives and mothers over 
career women. He also cuationed 
female students that ''the fear of 
being used sexually need not lead 
to the denial of your own sexual­
ity." 
After reading a selection from Person to Person, a book of women's feelings by Carl Rogers and Barry Stevens, Keler discussed how changes in women's roles relate to men. "In the past, men have been 'superior' they have judged you, they have put you down," he stated. "I'm not hoping for the reverse. Let's leave the judging to God.'' 
"Changes in women can't help but affect changes in men. Your futures drastically affects my fu­ture," he commented. "Find yourself as a woman, but also find yourself as a human. You have to bump into people; in my book that's called reality." 
"My dominant hope lies within men and women finding them­selves," Keller added. "We must not forget we are social beings. Communication between two people can lead to mutual madness or mutual fulfillment. I hope we can lead to the latter.'' 
After Keller's talk, students discussed their feelings toward their personal roles and relation­ships. 
Lounge 
The Women's Awareness Series will present another program on March 25. Deanna Sokolowski, SMC assistant professor of Eng­lish, will trace the historical back­ground of the women's rights movement. 
Groundskeepers against suspensions 

[Continued from page 1] surrounding the unionization attempts. They had to work around the clock during the blizzard for four days, he stressed, and have only eight days off since before Christmas. Now they feel that they are being treated very unfairly, Patton concluded and they want something done about it. Mason commented that Person­nel would meet with any employees who had a problem or wanted to appeal some disciplinary action. He continued that the grounds­keepers group did not constitute either of these things. He said the University could not have someone appointing himself as a spokes­man, adding "we have not heard from anyone actually involved with the action." Mason said that the action is tied-in with the groundskeepers attempts to unionize, because some groundskeepers are involved. He stated that "an orderly process" must be followed, and that "un­reasonable behavior" cannot be allowed. 
CILA to meet 

The CILA general meeting has been rescheduled for Sunday, Feb. 26 at 7:15 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
There will be officer elections at this time, so attendance of all members is requested. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

~~ 

insly·prints 
the wiz of the print~ biz! 
rag bond 25 -8 1/2 X 11 $2.65 203 N. Matn So P.end 289-697 





Kreskin amazes capacity crowd 
by Joel Hanington 
It's an eerie feeling when you don't know whether the words you're writing are your own or someone else's. After attending a performance by the Amazing Kreskin, it is difficult to be sure just how influential his "sugges­tions" were. 
A man who can stimulate 40 on-stage students to stroke 40 invisible animals is a man to approach with caution. But appa­rently caution was thrown to the wind last night, as a capacity crowd of 2000 packed in Stepan Center to see the performer who caused Mike Wallace of CBS to ask, "Is Kreskin a scientific schowman or an enter­taining scientist?" 
According to the Amazing Kres­kin, he is a "scientific investiga­tor" ofthe power of suggestion and the various areas of E.S.P. In warming up his audience last night with a lengthy monologue about his travelling experiences, Kreskin deliberately set a slow pace which was to gradually increase and eventually rocket to a whirlwind speed. · 
A magician since the age of seven, Kreskin began his perfor-· 
mance with a Houdini magic trick which he claimed took six and a half years to perfect. In producing a glass of water "out of nowhere," Kreskin was able to stress one of the main points of his performance, namely, that everything he does in 
E.S.P. is, just like magic, done by natural and scientific means. 
Disappearing act 
Kre.\kin commented that non­verbal communication is quickly becoming "a disappearing art." ''The people of the United States 
ae · fr 'd · 
are sou nng om a mass ept emtc 
. h ) d 't'Of V D ( erbal dl
· · v arr ea • an I s 
unusual if in a conversation 40 of 
• s t'd b o · h d
what 1s a Y ne person ts ear by the other and vice versa," he stated. 
This is one ofthe major reasons, Kreskin said, that he performs--to stir up wonder in what is happen­ing on stage, and at the same time 
stir up interest in what might
happen in life when the powers of non-verbal communication are reached. 
When he had finished his E.S.P. dissertation, Kreskin went into a frenzy, strewing pencils and papers into the crowd as he ran up and down the aisles. He asked those with pencil and paper to write down a list of names, places, dates or anything else which "really means something to you.'' The lists were placed in several envelopes throughout the audience and left there for the rest of the show. 

Promising to come back to the envelopes later, Kreskin called upon a volunteer to aid him in a card trick. The volunteer was askedby the magician to cut the deck severl times, with Kreskin's back to him. Next he was asked to draw two cards and, without look-. ing at them, to place one in each of his pockets. After a brief but pensive pause, Kreskin identified not only ech of the two cards, but which pocket each was in, as well. 
Kreskin mentioned, with an air 

of satisfaction, that because of his .._---------------------------~ 
3 , Taeos1 
for 

'1.09 ' 
WITH THIS COUPON OFFER GOOD THRU MARCH 4, 1978 
2051 Niles Ave. 
St. Joseph 
Mich. 

~---------------------------~ 
re-St. Patrick's Day Party & Gong Show at 




Giuseppe's 
Sat., Feb. 25th 9pm.-2am. $2.00 Plenty of Beer! 
Sponsored by SMC Social Commission 
card playing prowess and other abilities, he walked away from the Nugget Casino in Las Vegas with 400 times as much money as he started with. He added that he has been banned from playing at several other casinos. 
At this point, Kreskin decided to involve the entire audience in an experience of non-verbal communi­cation. He asked everyone in the audience to close their eyes and listen only to his words. As he spoke, the audience members were 
asked to attempt to form a mental picture in each of their minds. 
A few breathing exercises served to reinforce the image, and Kreskin then suggested that a circle be drawn in place of the former image. 
In this circle, he suggested that two numbers might appear, both of them even and making a number between SO and 99, that he had written on a blackboard. 
A few silent moments ensued before the audience was permitted to open their eyes. ''How many of you saw the number 68?" he asked. Hundreds of hands shot up and an electric awe went through the crowd. Over the roar, Kreskin shouted that the digits might be reversed in the mental picture. With the audience in anxious anticipation of his every move, Kreskin announced that he would allow his paycheck for the perfor­mance to be hidden anywhere in the Center. If he could not find it, he would forfeit it. While he was backstage, a committee of four people chosen at random hid the check in a coat near the back of the 
r~:~berantly returning, Kreskin raced to the back ofthe auditorium, dragging behind him the last person to touch the check. After several minutes, however, Kres­kin, obviously confused, admitted that he could not find the check, but only because his implicit
instructions had not been followed. Apparently it had been moved after the last person touched it. Because his instructions had not been followed, he did not forfeit the check. Visibly upset, Kreskin announced a ten minute intermis­sion and left the stage. 
Limit: one coupon per person. 
1013 Western Ave. 
West McKinley 
South Bend, Ind.
Mishawaka, Ind. 
20 

A calmer, more confident Kres­kin returned after the break explaining that what he would next attempt whould not in any way be called "hypnosis." Kreskin claims that no such thing as hypnosis occurs, and has posted a $50,000 challenge to anyone who can prove that it does. Rather, the pheno­mena which some selected few from the audience would experi­ence was merely the stimulation of the imagination, he explained. 
Gathering about 40 volunteers on ~tage, Kreskin began by suggest-tog to the 20 or so volunteers with 
chairs  that  they  could  not  stay  
standing  up  but  were  drawn  to  
their chairs  as  if by  a  magnetic  

force. When this actu~lly occurred, one individual, whom Kreskin described as "an excellent sub­ject"• was such a zealous partici­pant that he fell through and broke his own chair· 
Next it was suggested to the volunteers on state that in their hands were the animals of their choice. Amont the animals in the created menagerie were a black­bird, rabbit, mouse, penguin and chicken. The participants became so attached to their respective pets that when they were taken with the snap of a finger, one volunteer demanded, "I want my chicken!" 

As a finale, it was suggested to the group that Student Union Director Tom Gryp, who came on stage, was not whom he pretended to be, but instead a "scurvy mess" of a human being. This prompted 
some of the male volunteers to attempt ejection of the "impos­ter•" but Kreskin restrained them. However, since the odor of the "bum" was too overwhelming for the subjects, Kreskin released them from his influence. Leaving a 
coJiection of bewilered and some­what embarrassed students on stage, Kreskin took his final bows 
to a thunderous ovation. 

A veteran of many different college campus performances, Kreskin expressed his gratitude, "I'll never forget working here and the warmth that increases here every time I come." 
Thursday, February 23, 1978 the observer s 

Kreskin last night amazed the ND-SMC community for the third consecutive year. [Photo by Beth Cutter] 
Benefactress of Flanner dies 
Mrs. Helen L. Kellogg, who donated Flanner Hall to Notre Dame in 1969, died February 19 at her home in Chicago. She was 92. 
The widow of a former president of the Kellogg Company cereal firm, Kellogg donated the eleven­story residence hall as a memorial to her son by a previous marriage, Thomas U. Flanner, a Chicago attorney who died in 1965. 
A contributor to many charitable organizations and a patron of the arts, Kellogg received an honorary doctor of fine arts degree from 
Notre Dame in 1968. University President Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh offered the funeral Mass for Kellogg this morning in Our Lady of Mount Carmel Catholic Church in Chicago. A memorial wreath has been placed in Flanner Hall. 
Sunshine Promotions Notre Dame Student Union 
Present 
With Special Guest Star 
BOB WELCH 
alsa.CLOVER 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 • 7:30pm NOTRE DAME ACC All Seats Reserved: $7.00 & $6.00 On Sale Now at Student Ticket Office and at ACC Box Office 

Streeten relates 
basic needs 
to economy 
by Tim Sulllvan 
Reknowned economist Prof. Paul 
Streeten, special advisor to the 
World Bank, lectured on the topic, 
"Basic Needs: Premises and Pro­
mises,'' before a large crowd last 
night in the Hayes-Healy Audi­
torium. 

Introduced as "concerned with 
improving the lot of the world's 
poor," Streeten commented in his 
opening remarks that, "it is a 
slight embarrasment to have to talk 1 
about basic human needs, but it is 
necessary.'' 
The basic needs approach," said Streeten, "constitutes an economic thinking which has evolved over 25 years.'' He then proceeded to outline the economic modes of thought which have lead up to the basic needs method and are essen­tial to its understanding. 
"No economist has advocated the maximizing of growth by tightening our belts, cutting con­sumption, and accumulating capi­tal, since this has the effect of continuing until doomsday where­upon a massive comsumption orgy occurs." 
Streeten then outlined what he considered several unrealistic ass­umptions about emphasis on eco­nomic growth. He described these assumtions as the "trickle-down theory,'' where ''automatic market forces open benefits to a wide circle governments supposedly take measures to correct accumulation of capital and growth and finally, a period of wealth inequality occurs before prosperity.'' 
Streeten then disproved this theory by showing that high growth rates combine with inequality of income that governments suppo­sedly take measures to correct accumulation of capital and growth and finally, a period of wealth inequality occurs _before pros­
perity.,, Streeten then disproved this theory by showing that high growth rates combine with inequality of income, that governments that take corrective measures are them­selves involved in interest groups and are ineffective, and that no evidence exists that inequality is a necessary condition for growth. As a result, economists then turned to reducing unemployment. "We live in a period of unprece­dented high industrial growth with low employment," Streeten com­
LContlnued on page 4] 
-----~­


*The Observer 

~n indepenent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer is published by students of tne University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does ·not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, arid letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.

! 
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager 

.. 
·c·0 tton s·o I 
... . · W 

it:?'.{••
.• . . . 

·ntm•J.J?b.otos lost .­
.. .·. :•::: : ::•>
D:·''icutor: 
lam writing this lettet' to inform· t})e . Notre Dame community _of a .. vent ttnfortunate situation that l •· feel should be .·of. interest. to .it..·.·.I rerer·to a ·package that .has disap;. ·· 
-peared since il reached the campus. This package contained : color photos and slides of the ..J~Qtfi>n Bowl to be used inthisyears edition ofthe 1978 Doure. ·Without ::.. the eontents of this package. the · 
'>quality of the Cotton Bowl pages will suffer greatly •... As a last effort, 
I would like to· beg the people of 
Notre Dame to aid us .with a.ny 
infonnatibn they. might .have ··coo~ 
cerning this package. Perhaps with 
· your help. we may replace what has 
been lost. · · 
This pa~kage was . delivered by 

UPS to Notre Dame on January 31, 
1978~ Tile warehouse .on campus 
aerepted delivery. A university 
messenger claims to. have delivered 
the package to LaFortune Student . 
Center. Since· the messenger 
signed for the package himself •. we 
assume that it was left somewhere 
in LaFortune. The address on the· 
·package read~ · · · · 
Bill Fuller · 
The Dome 
LaFortune Student Center Since the student body as a . 

Sue Quigley BoxQ Steve Bonomo ·Notre Dame Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
Thursday, February 23, 1978 
whole fu.1'1ds the Notre Dame and this ~niing ¥tcludes . devel.. .
•··Yearbook~ l wOUld be1ie¥e·.that··it.. oping.~espect for aU people who we 
wo.ul.d.·.··b.. e.to. the.· ... fit ·. .....·· .....l.·.n·.· ·
... ·.i.r...be.... ne ... t.·.o.obta 

~~~~¢:1s~=s:; 
I am requesting your assistance •...! will as"k no questionst names* . ()[' details. My 9nly concern is the photos and ultimately the negatives and slide$~ ·On behalf of the staff· and the ··· student·.· .. b00y7 l .. a~n pleading for your cooperation. . Please rontacl me at anyfiDl~ 
11m.KrQse . 
Photo Editor, 'lheDome 919 FbumerllaJl 
233~ll82 
R.a.·c·....l·.·.·s·. ··m ··. .. 

.V.·i.·. o.·.· .•..•.•...1-... a.te.·.. s.. · ·Ch,.Js··t.·.·ia.n...~.•.'o'-lle
1 J, 1 .11 ", 

. Dear Editor: ·. . Mr. . . Gantt~s ... letter .·concerning racism and the shuttle ·leaves us · · feeling ·sorry ··thlll . such .an occur:< 
renee would take place in the Notre Damc~Saint Mary's Community:, As young adults; . we .should all have enough intelligence to be ?J,nsiderate .·of. othe~•. itl(:Judingthose who arenotiwen mem"bets of the community. Childish acts. such ·as these alienate those who help to make the e~perience of learning at t}tese two schools whatit is tod~y, 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Edftor Jean Powley St. Mary's E-ditor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 


Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
• .:~"'zt ......... ...::

en~un~et ~n our \t~U!:Y Jiyes~ ••1;1:.1 
.=::~~~~e~~~~=n~ 
rights. ·.hie.h we 11.eel .J,re.. .still.·
w.•· • 

tacking in out supposedly virtuous · ·rommuruty~ · The bh¢]( stUdents who ltttended · .. · both Nqtte Dame arid SaintMary's 
·deserve ·.much· more · respect· than . · they .-eceive·and we. applaud the patience of those students who · were subjected to suc:h a.. buntilia" · ting and unnecessary e~:perience recently on ·Jhe shuttle. Such····· 
behaviar · is. unwarranted. in a Christian cOmmunity andwe h<>p~ that thQse who participate in such 
abhorrent actions will soon reflect 
on them and become· more loving .~~ons. A$ the.late S~1l· Hubert· Humphrey ~~iq: "'Tho~ '-\'hO can~ 
not love have no heart/• ·· .Greg Sebasky 
··Steve. Keppel 






Are You Happy? 
-------------------------joel secrest
There is a rather rotund figure on provides various interpretations. how possibly can the condition 
this campus wbo takes it upon 
himself to awaken students from their assorted academic, athletic, or erotic reveries with the query: ·'Are you happy?" Quite a simple 
statement, grammatically speak­ing. But an interrogative which nonetheless seems to catch stu­dents off-guard. A few, with stronger parochial heritages, ~agerly chirp out a "Yes, Father." However, most seem to handle the question as well as Steve Yeager handles Charlie Hough. Even with a wary eye and a big glove, they still fumble the pitch. Yet, some type of affirmative reply is mum­bled. This appears to please the inquisitor for he often nods and walks on. 
However, the question of happi­ness cannot be settled in the 6rief 
interlude of passers-by. The 
question requires a reflective, not an objective, answer. The original spawns a mitosis in the mind. To answer correctly three other, more basic questions must be analyzed : l}What does it mean to be happy? 2)1s man naturally happy? 3)1f not, should man make the effort to be 
happy? 
When looking for meaning a dictionary is the first, most com­mon source. And it will not be ignored here. Webster's of course, 
But the one nuance most fitting the cherubic chaplain's adJ"ective is this: "enjoying well being and Contentment." Although far bfrom a very concrete conception. this meaning is probably acceptable to most people. And because that feeling is most likely the common consensus, it is happiness as well-being and contentment that is 
the reality of the word. 
Now, is the natural mood of man one of well-being and content-· ment? Is man Lorenz's instinctive aggressor or. Rousseau's placid child? Although much conflicting 
anthropolo¢cal, psychological, and sociological data can t>e strutted out to support either view, I do not think social science is necessary to provide an answer. 
The solution can be found much 
. , Wh t . . f 

more simply.. a IS a sign o happiness?.-\ smile. Easy enough? People smile when they are happy.But a smile is not an effortless gesture. Just ask any model at a photo session or a politician after a couple of hours in n:celVing line.
4 

Smiling is work. Test it yourself. Try holding a smile for a few minutes. Even the idea of the verb 
"hold" implies effort. Your face is in a stressful situation. And if the outward, visible symbol of the condition is not a natural act then 
itself be natural? The condition of happiness has 
been defined and adequately illus­trated as an unnatural state. To become happy requires a positive approach. People seek happiness. But is it the pursuit of happiness, disrespectful (sic) of the ..Declara­tion of Independence, a goal to be sought? Should people devote time trying to be happy? I think not. For when all the utopian verbiage is stripped away, a happy man is a selfish man. A man's happiness is directly proportional to his ego­centricity. And if we take as a personal value system Christianity rather than hedonism, we should not wish to be happy. 
This is what I see as the subtle intent of Father Griffin's question. 
Kind and gentle man that he is, I
do not t hmk  he  asks  "Are you  
happy?"  to h  hear  the  reassuring ·  

yeses, for t ey are not reassunng. 
rernaps the Notre Dame student 
body is too happy. Ifviewed in a more sensitive light, Fr. Griffin acts as an effective antibiotic to an epidemic of contentedness. I hope 
on future occasions when asking
students "Are you happy?" he 
receives at last a few conscientious nos. And 1 pray that this distresses him not, for the negative is the correct reply. 
··· 

• we can remove the major cans~ of· t..he. ti... o.U.owing··en.·u.'cal P.ro.b.tern.s....·..·...· · 
·····-l> oUr energy shonage and >the 
· high price of eriet:gy.
2) our high defence costs. aind 
•.•. •. .••. ·•· · ·.•
threa.•
.ts.. ·.· to our•. · nation
.. .•.....at security. •.· 

. < 3) ·.. .the denial of economic opportunitie$ and civil·•·.fights.·.. of .·many disadvantaged whites•• blacks 
nd h . -~~.... 
a . . ot et nunon~....,1" • · 
4) our foteigl'l tr~ defkit jnd,.
·~~f~.. . media, partieulatly.•televisiODt to••·.. 
present diverse points of vieW on 
• is · · ··
ma)Ot · . sues. . The greatest slagle cause ·of OUI'·. huge energy ~ts (except for. QUf...... fa_il.. nre .to ad··opt·..~. .. con .. erv........·..
...·.· ....· .. .. ..· .....··.·· t ....s ... · 

• tr~,.r­oort.tneasures) is the itlflated pritecharged by the Arabs for their on. 
Phil Caekley' s letter to the Editor of Feb. 17, wherein he demon­strates concern with facts as op­posed to rhetoric, is worthy of comment in several ways. First, he has quoted out of context, which causes a certain amount of confu­sion. Ricardo Parra's letter of Feb. 6 did indeed mention a "fancy law firm" in the final paragraph. The body of the letter, however, con­veyed the clear message (in two separate paragraphs) that this was a unJon-busting law finn, utilized to fight the United Farm Workers, and recognized as a business-em­
ployed  agent  of  delay  by  the  
AFL-CIO .  
Furthennore,  Parra  does  not  

sidestep Mason's charges of delay. 
He simply elaborates other facts of the political context at Notre Dame which Mason conveniently over­looks, which lead to the clear implication that the University, not the Teamsters, is delaying the settlement of the unionization is­sue. Those facts are: 
1. 
The NLRB 's issuance of a charge of Unfair Labor Practice against Notre Dame. 

2. 
The University's hiring of a union-busting law finn. 


3. Hesburgh's breaking of a 
. --·:-:-:-:::;;-. 

Qpp.()se -·· > 
· 1.. · .·. . 


·p····r-o:.. ·.. •· s···r···a•····a···.1.·.···. 
.. · ·. · · ·•• · .. ·. -• · · · · · · ·. · . . · • • 
· · .·P.ol.l.· .. · ••..•.·.-.. ·-. ·.. . ·
..
··.ru·· ..

. _, 7 
..,..·"'""···-"'... 5."'-.• . . •..·•.•••.··.··• 
»WU" m 
W~ ate writing tQ fudicate h~w 
The Arabs charge us inflated priees · . 
because we support Israel in her 
occupation ofAra,b Palestine (Israel 
was manufactuted in 1948 by
European Jews . woo •armihilated·· .Pat.. ·estin..·.·.> and. i.. n.··Israel·.•...·s ·eQ.·ntinu-... ·..·
.. ....·.·.·.e.. .. ·.· ..... _
· · · · 

ing ·· colonization of Egyptian~ ·Syrian, .and Jordanian.land~ · Des,.
pite President Sadat' s great peace
efforts, Istael establishes new set... 
tlements·ever:y week.. 
The United States. supports this 
outrageous Jewish/1$taeli policy 
because Congress, and the national · 
news media (as well as academia 
and the professions) are dominated 
by Jews who have influence far out 
ofprnilt\rt. ion to .their 3.·.· •.riP.rc.. ent of 
..~r~ r-






Facts or 
promise for union election for the 
21 gro1111dskeepers. 
4. 
The University's attempt to expand the bargaining unit from 21 to 413 groundskeepers. 

5. 
The Univesity's refusal to accept the NLRB's settlement pro­posal, which the Teamsters would have agreed to. 

6. 
The prosecution of the University by the NLRB, not the Teamsters. 


It is somewhat inconsistent to issue a call for mQte purifiea "facts", when the basic point of a short letter, which contains some cogent facts of its own, can be either ignored or misunderstood. 
Mr. Cackley apparently desires to obtain some sort of neutral facts, to be distinguished for what he calls "rhetoric". His lack of definition of rhetoric notwithstand­ing, one cannot separate "facts" from the theoretical assumptions which guide their articulation, nor from the historical, social, political, and economic contexts within which they are seen as "true". The latter concerns the dominance of low-paid, relatively powerless workers (students and faculty, too) by a handful of powerful decision­makers: a few key administrators 
.p...• .. ... ·.··················...•
()· 
.·.· . · 

· ..·...··.6u~:popuJation.Thus,sotelyforthe·· 
sake··ofJ~~territorial. ambition 
we Americans are asked ro. risk 
nuclear w~r. pay too ·{nuch for 
gasoline. and do agreat injustice to
··the Palestinian refugees and.· other Arabswh()Se land the Je'ws al'e still 
taking. . . .· . .... . .. Th.. .us the.... United State$ s)rould"thd all · 1s 1 wa raw ·•·· support t'roln rae

and curb Jewisb influence here at hom.. e because.·it would beJ.ustand ·•·· 
M. d beca ld · 
.ti6 .. t an ......·.· . use Jt woo ..• ·.·. solve 
·.· · thefoliOWifig problems: .•..·.·•···.·.·. .·.•· •· ·.· .·. 
~ Th~ tbtea,t ofU.S. m~lveJ1lent in a nuclear war •. wwld greatly decrease ~nd·we would.have ample ... energy ~u~ at low~ (XJ$t····· .··.·•····•···•·•·· 
.. .......e .•·.•· •••····. ··••· · .. •.th...e · ...· . • ..
•·· ··•· · ·· \ .•. -_Wi WOUld.·.· sa.·.······v. e·· ... •. · .......s...··.2···•...4...••• ·.•·b·_·illion·• .·. ·..
··· ·· nuatt' hich · ~ ·.. ··rae~ 

)\~~7~-¥ 
·· w·-.... --~td .·..·· · .. ·. +-~ .th···•·•...;..· th · 

· ·· ·.· ·" e w~ . gaann~ ·.· ~~ •..·. ere .....•... 
would be 110 ntOre toss of AmeriCan&:·:
·.• · ·· ·· ·· · · · ··· · · 
1
·. tves·.. in the .mideast: l$raeli jets ·.. lntentiomdiY.·. killedJ4 Americans 
. 
on the U.S.S. Libertyin the 1967
War --and now there are hundreds 
oru~s. ''hostages'' in the sn1ai as a buffer. 
. • We would. protect our· defense · secrets by halting the practice of providing lstael With our JatM 
if · ·. · · ·· · ··· · 
.m. Jtary. eq!,UpQ\ent ·.and C(Jtnmllnt• . eatiqns gear (e.8.Jhe. P.-16 fighter
andlatest missles)/ ·. · · -Finally, we would prevent the theft., by the Jsrae··· .. · · Setv.•...ice~
.•... n. Secret 
· · · ·· · operating ~·. the U~s., of .our military secrets and .nuclear· oom.b 
material, and the media ccweNtp of 
. those thefts.: · · 
In sum. rather than supporting Israel .... ·.a theocracy whose treat­ment of non.Jews is worse than Rhodesia's is e.ven alleged to be 
·(see. International·. Red Cross
Report: ••Israel; The Brutal Occu~ 



141/TH TIM&~IAJfTJKXJT CAN 'tf)() (JJWON, SIR! 8IJT GE.T ~ I'O 8E fllM/55 IF 
THERE., MR. I FAIL£0 7lJ MEN­
I 
0111\E. ~ T1CW JHAT MY TAL-ENfS ARE IN CON­SIPERABl.E fJEMANP 
I NOfijf 

Lobotomy by Patrick Byrnes 
()()oo oooo o 0 o oooo oooo 
0 c 0 8 s 0 0 0 I) 0 0 
ooo
oo
0 0 0000 0 g 1° g g ~00 0
000 oooo g 8 ~ g g ~ 
0 0 0

1d. Politics 
0 0 0 
0

0000 ooo o o.>o 0000 oooS o<XlO
0 0 C) 0 0 0


000
0 
------------~steve legeay 
and their supporting trustees, set oneself above such a conflictdrawn heavily from higher corpor­and hope the "facts" come to youate circles. Theoretical assump­for an individual decision; they aretions refer to the social possibility intricately related to the social
of sciences of modes of knowing 1 " 
practice, not only of dominant '' s;E LL .
predicated upon the separation .Qf 
groups (the administration) andvalues from facts, theory from subordinate groups (the grounds­social practice, subjectivity from keepers), but of yourself andobjectivity, and action from myself as well. To maintain athought. Such separations are posture of detached objectivity or necessary illusions fostered by fact-gatherer has a way of reinforc­recent developments in the mode of ing political dominance as it is, forproduction: the separation of reasons already mentioned.
manual from intellectual labor. 
The problem at hand is not one of These conditions of labor refer facts, for facts are plentiful: the again to issues of the political and Goundskeepers Rights Coalition economic context, already men­
has a whole file full of them--come tioned. and peruse to your heart's content. 
ib such a context, Mr. Cackley is Meetings are announced in ad­right: we have been manipulated, vance and open to anyone interest­but by an administration bent on ed. But the crucial problem is notmaintaining political power and one of facts; it rather concerns thebudget-balance through keeping choice we all must make, a choicecertain community members, not­bound up in values, politics, andably the groundsteepers, political­economics. Will we adopt officially voiceless and at bare levels of mythology and castigate the Team­subsistence. How appropriate that sters as outside troublemakers andsuch domination is exercised ''for delayers, therby supporting thethe good of the family.'' 
University in its attempts to pre­The "facts" do not exist outside vent its employees form goingthe context of conflict characteriz­union? Or will we support theing the groundskeepers vs. Notre workers in their struggle to gain aDame; indeed, they are part and voice of their own in the determina­.--. :-.-:--:-. _-_:---·---·:->··.·-·. 

pan-el ofit. One can hardly hope to tion of their affairs? 
·· ' i::>ynamic =!~~:~~::: '(=~~:~hauri · 
~~~~~ ·dancer returned.. to our room-in ·Fhutner ·· ·L 
Hall. . MuchAo our surprise and to COOCil
~---·.·.·· 
delight••·\Ve found him next dQc>r ill
identified Room 523 watching an episode•of·· · 
A p~..}--we should all act forcefully University and a Christian com-Hfbe Gong Show~~.. . Yes,. our . cagers· r· 
Dear Edlton mystery dancer is none other than > •·· ·•· · -··· ·· ·• ••·.•· ·• · ·. <~ · 
tqt<curb unjust and unjustified munity. especially in the·Univer,sity 
Jewish influence! . . .· . . officials· lad of openness and .. __ Being typical Notre Dame·· stu• our. esteemed and. distingui~hed · sr•• · 
~l} . We shQUJ4 joln together tQ < • · !he dents. the picture of the .~nony.; section lead~/ Geoff Wla.deckl. .. ne.r.· ... ······.········.··.·.·-.··. 1 ·.·. _ •.•.-_•.•• •. ·..... _ 
>honesty With sucb issues. · ..·_·.··· .. ._. .•••._.• ._..•.••..•._?_•.••.••·. ·•.•···_·.· . ·..·.•.·.·
_·.····_EtWOI'.·_ .. 

mous dancer on -·~ front page Qf We are ce~iniY ptoud .()f' the · ogpose any ·politician. suppOrting ·Universtiy'sinronsistencies are not 
the . issue of Feb.> .2Z greatly ..· .. ...·.·•·_of_ .•. _.lS.·_ __ .· ... · Uaving 'l"uesday's
ac_·._._._h_.iev_em.·e_nts ._.._th_ ..·.· ..·.····_ffu. e.•.. ups_tan_d_• ....• read
Istiel. . ...·. .. . just ·.. ·.. i~a~ed •·• events,.·.·:-:like . the intrigued. us. >We beCame vetf ing young man, and bope that he Obse.fWr, one question lingers in
·~>-•·We.·-.shOuld work •_.to.·•u.rut Hetlmutbcase~·but are sYstematic. 
. intent on ascerta.ning the identy of. will continuein the future•..·· ·· my 111~:#· It. as n... ~ 
JeDh representation in univmi-N.D. has repeatedly attempted ·this mystery person. Therfore. we · ·· •· .·.·. •·· •····• .... s{)Qtts ;a;~1 conte~ds. u..,e noise
titi.!kgQVemment and the profes~ to thwart the ~ndskeepers and 
decided· to set oq.t 00 a campus-.. ~~~== .. leveh.HheAcc, the student body,
u
si®S to 3. percent.. (their_ share in other wor~ers .. ·.rights. to chQOSe wide search for. this .ei11Siveman. . ..· ·t~te••·-(:~leadef$..ttc~~ make•-• thet~•PQPUiation) and.-preventtheit tbeirown.:hargaining agents~-·-The 
•·. _.· ·
OUr_.·.·· treklec;lu~. fr_om_•·· ·Pa._ng·born Hall_. ·· ·· ·· difference for the· Irish basketballdQittkaance <Jf areas like the tnedia. NationalLabor !{elations &ard hu .•ouP,_st·_._•.l·l·_·•. Gene. ~ne. eat your heart .·teP.I·· why not let the Leprechautl
~)': We<shO'lld boy~ those ··••··.·ap~ntty•·fotlnd -·sufficient·_.__ eyi··•··· to the south m tbe towers _t4 the. coach_· ··me_···._.._t_ea_·.m...·.. 1__ · -. ·. •·.. ·_.·. . .•·.···.• ._.·······-··.. _•..._···•.•
J10tth·• We even ehecked across the · ___ I.. •-··Bene.·
ut:..L

~l::lzati~ns_, and .•. ittdiv~duab •·•····•···· ·· dence againstND to hold a bearing lake·at._Boly Cross ..-d-C.rroll .a$ ,___ · 
lllpport ewish/Jsraeti causes on the charges of unfair. labor ........ . att4}~ locally_ to prevent ·news pracfices. Would NI>'s unfait JabOt : di~. •e.g.~ by fding petitions •practices~actionsC9JlSis~nt.With•·..··•· Opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
to ~y the renewal of licenses to .···· Chrl$tian principles?.•···· .·.· ····.• <•···• ·•••-·•••.···• •·•• .•... · telD.Jon·.and radio stations.which·/ ·· ·····•··· The UJ1ivetsity.·ha$.. also refused . itt~~~~·. •. .. .·······•••-·· ·.··-·< \ / to ~ pilbli~.-it$. in!~~t •..
01i' lllOfley should be used ro · portfolio. · .· During •· tbe Hunger · stofi::py¢i'POPUlatioo,_ illegal.bnmi.. >CoaHdon's.:·_.._.worksllop··· on.. South 
Artificial Environment gra$Ut, and world reSource short• Africa last semestert a: recogaited ag~ not to aid Jews who band Un~sitv .$p()kesman admitted to~ ··. in · universities• .profes--that ND•·· has investments ·in.· eOtn· 

Hinders Growth
>~.and media to injure ow just ·. panie$ tbat ~p support South tnt~. · Africa's .u,cist and.teptessive 
Mr. &: Mrs. Bob F~ · ' · government. It is hardly consistent 
witb Christian .ideals . that ND · 
·sponsor a eentet for Civil Rights
itAwake•
·.· .·· . . when it, is .at, the same time · but certainly it is not natural for
Reading the opinion of Prof. 
them to be quarantined from each have absolutely nothing in common.
contributing th ..,the tepre$Sion ·of..·•·-··· Werge in Tuesday's Observer leftristuden.t· these very rights, · through its me feeling amused, annoyed, and otner. Werge is, fortunately, Aqd perhaps Werge has never 
investments. married, and does not have to deal heard the old saying, "Charitv 
< ... · •. then, downright angry. Werge
Probably the·. most tragic incon. with the problem anymore, but begins at home," for he seems to
notes that Fr. Toohey's article on
·· consctence sistency of all is· the ND .student· what are the rest of us to do? The to think that we should jump on our
co-ed housing (in the most recent
apathy when .confronted by such classroom is simply not a place in horses and ride off to joust at
issue of Scholastic magazine) bases
nelr lWitor: issues. Gtattted~ this may weU be which to '"foster...tenderness, windmills. Certainly there are
its conclusions on facts that are
ln part due to the UniversitY's sympathy, love, respect, compas­greater problems in the world than
I~wld like tt>compliment Peggy "somewhat thin"--yet, in a three­
Os~rger .· fot her . Jetter which •childlike treatment ofthe students. sion, understanding, faith." that which is discussed here, but
column, six paragraph monologue,
appf:ated in the Feb. 20 issue of Buty()ung adults should be capable Perhaps coed housing will not that does not mean that we should
while revealing his knowledge and 'l'he ;;. Observer.•·.. concerning .the of asserting themselves to chal· · great wit, the professor manages to solve our problems: perhaps it will ignore it. It seems that the 
UniVersity•s ..bypo..critical" stance lenge unjust structures especially if solve some ot them. The point is standard administrative reply to 
say very little that is pertinent to 



ori the issue of Paul Hellmuth. If they daJ.m to be Christians. ·.·· . 

sincere Christians are supposed to uphold Christian principles in their actions. then l can definitely see a · distiDCf:iori between this Catholic 

--__..:... ....._.. _ -.... -­

f»ELL, IJO HMM.. I'O 
OH, 7lE
PITY. COUW

YOU1HINK liKE 70, 511?, I 
HCCKWITH
YOUSIJ66t5T

Y()(J CfJUW RMLLY IAKJULI). 

that it must not be sc:en as an student protests is: "How can youthe problem. 
attempt to artificially speed up the complain about such trivial things When he does treat the question, maturing process, but rather as the when there are so many terrible Werge tells us that learning to treat eradication of an artifical environ-things going on in the world 
the other sex as more than erotic ment so that the individual may today--you ought to be ashamed of objects is a part of the maturation naturally grow to his fullest poten­yourselves." It is only by seeing process, requiring work, suffering, tial. One might have used the and attempting to correct the ills grace, etc.. "They cannot be same convoluted logic six years that exist at every level of existence bestowed upon someone by an ago--but did ND allow girls in as a that we develop the maturity to institution nor by any particular gimmick to produce instant matur-·· combat the greater evils that form of dormitory." rthink there is ity in the men here, or did they plague this world. Indifference in a misconception here which needs realize that the absence of females smaller matters leads to callous­clarifying. We are not asking that was a defect in the education ness in greater. If a person cannot the institution that is Notre Dame ·scheme? Maybe a boor is a boor hope to effect reform on a local (or any institution holding such whether he lives in a single-sex or level, how can he be expected to views on segregation of the sexes) coed dorm (or even coed univer­seek change in the national or "bestow" (sic) us with maturity, sity), but what about those who are international realm? The problem but rather that it remove the neither boors nor quite Don Juans of co-ed housing is less universal institutional barriers to that pro-•or Elizabeth Taylors)--what solu­than those of mass hunger and cess of maturation. It may be a tion is to be offered them? genocide, but it is every bit as rather specious argument to claim It is a petty and unjust tactic to real--and if the rest of the Notre that if God ha~ meant men and mention coed housing and on-cam­Dame hierarchy concurs in the women to rematn apart he would pus abortions in the same breath, logic of Werge. it may become just have put them on separate planets, , somehow linking the two. They as perennial. 

---~-~--~----­

Thursday, February 23, 1978 If half the world's energy comes from
the observer

8 
plutonium reactors, it would mean that 15 million kilograms of plutonium would be 
produced. A yearly loss of only 15 
kilograms would be enough to make five 
nuclear bombs. 
The present cost of electricity, from 1.8
The Future of Energy. to 3.0 cents per kilowatt hour, is expected to inflate in the nature of 300 percent or 
more in the next ten years. Geothermal power (using heat energy stored beneath 

the surface of the earth) ranges from 2.5 to


By Leo C. Hansen 

3.5 cents per kilowatt-hour. Nuclear is 3.5. to 5.5 cents. Fusion costs from 4 to 6 cents. 
Solar energy is the most expensive, due to enormous installation costs. The cost of electricity in the next ten years could range from 7 to 20 cents per kilowatt-hour. 
Future energy demands will require new developmerits in energy technology, either in refinery or existing methods or the evolution of new concepts in energy production. 
Powersat electricity, a system of receiv­ing an 'electric beam' from a solar power station in space, is a cheap alternative now under investigation. Cost estimates are as low as one-half cent per kilowatt-hour. In an experiment in California, electrical engineer Richard M. Dickinson conducted the first attempt to transmit high-power levels of electric power by microwave. An 85 foot tracking antenna transmitted up to 400 kilowatts to a receiver one mile away. Scientists hope to provide the means by which electricity, generated in space under intense sunlight, would be beamed down to earth at collector stations. The system uses the Amplitron, a device that can produce electricity at 90 percent efficiency. 
Skepticism concerning the harmful effects of the beam has been encountered. A research firm in Cambridge, Massachu­setts has introduced a system to prevent the microwave beam from causing harmful effects if it wanders off its intended path. A pilot beam is sent back to the transmitter, controlling phaseshifters which could dissipate the beam harmfully over a widespread portion of the earth's surface. Animals or birds wandering into the beam would not be exposed to dangerous amounts of radiation. Even in the direct center of the beam, the microwaves have less intensity than direct sunlight.
AGalactic Mass Transit System Of recent interest to scientists, is the 
The rat, after numerous failures in dealing with the psychologists maze, always suceeds in finding its ~oal -the nourishment at the maze's eno, because there is a critical need for him to find the location of the food. It is necessary for survival. 
Arthur Koestler, in his book The Act of Creation, refers to a 'ripeness' for disco­very. Kohler's chimpanzees eventually learned the use of implements and found ways to make them. "Ripeness.:· he defines, "Is merely a necessary, not a sufficient, condition of discovery." Tech­nological inventions throughout history are preceeded by the proper conditions for a new wave of scientific creative thought. These conditions are of universal need, economic incentive, social demand, or cultural trends and patterns. In an Alchemists' Rosarium, advice for finding the "Philosopher's Stone" goes this way: --The Stone can only be found when the search lies heavily on the searcher. 
Recent concern for the production of energy in the future indicates a ripeness for discovery of new thoughts concerning the production and consumption of energy. 
We are continually reminded of the 

urgency of this matter as we experiencethe dramatics and trauma of the effects of the coal miners' strike and daily by the soaring costs of petroleum, electricity, natural gas, 
and oil products. 
The crisis exists due to many factors, 
which collectively have created the situa­
tion which exists today. The United States 
energy system relies most on the least 
plentiful resources, and least on the most 
plentiful resources. Over 75 percent of the 
nation's energy consumption is based upon 
petroleum and natural gas. Domestic 
supplies of these are dwindling, but more 
importantly, government restrictions have 
inhibited the exploitation of the domestic 
oil resources for example, the basin off the 
Eastern Continental Shelf, which, accord­
ing to some scientists, is plentiful enough 
to last for more than fifty years. 
The most abundant domestic fuel is ~oal, 
which currently provides less than 20 
percent of the current energy needs in the 
United States. Our current mining 
procedures are being criticized by both 
environmentalists and the mining workers. 
More efficient means of extracting this 
resource from beneath the surface of the 
earth, would help to ease the pressure of 
the new push-for 'coal' energy, under 
Carter's energy proposals. 

Uranium, the domestic energy source wiht the greatest overall potential, and solar energy, the ideal energy source, provide a minimal amount of the Nation's needs. 
Conservation of energy, though critical during temporal energy crises, can only slow down the process of the "real" crisis, and provide the extra time need by the scientists and inventors to re-direct the energy production cycle. Based on a petroleum and coal economy, the present situation and dilemma is not unlike that of the motorist who has a limited tank of fuel and must find ways of conserving that fuel, until he reaches his destination, metapho­rically, new sources of energy. 
Historically, the production of energy has been a continually changing process, in which new methods are substituted for old as they develop. The invention of the steam pumping engine in 1630, and Watts later refinery of this idea, altered man's dependence upon coal and iron, to one of greater dependence upon electricity and alloys. When liquid fuel was interjected into this technological stew, the entirity of man's energy dependence was concen­trated upon a three sources: natural oil and gas, and coal, used to produce the steam-powered turbines which provide most of the electricity which is generated by power plants across the world today. 
. The reliance upon steam to move the machinery of men will eventually reach an inevitable conclusion. The present electri­city production process is a series of stages, each of which is an indirect contribution to the energy process. 
. .... 
·=··=-:·=·~:=::; ~::::::;::·:.::·:: :.-=--·: .. 
", ..
..·· ...,.
:-·····.-.·.·..
Fuel. E.nergy., -. ..,·.,.'·'·.·.·. . 
·-··.··.·.·-:·:·:· 
·.··.Stearn .· . 
!ii!i.•• iiJt&ifte·!···,:·······'······· 
-:-;.·
Pr<>ductiOO:'· 
-::-····. 
-·::·: ..:·· ..-..... 


·'.'.'EJeCt:.. '·.,,.... ,,.,,.·.,.,.,.. ,:~ ·.. ,,,.,:, ,., . 
...·. iV'itv.·
·.,.
. I..,.,.... :7 . 
from Carl Sagan's Other Worlds 
Wind and water turbines are efficient, 
for they require no fuel source, but have 
obvious geographic limitations. 
Water < Power. 

The use of direct energy, perhaps the most efficient means of producing heat energy, it limited in use, but by etheral innovations, has some unique adaptations. 
Sun 
Heat
Energy 
phenomenom which Carl Sagan calls the 'cosmic cheshire cat', the black hole. In essence, black holes are dead stars. A neutron star shrinks until it has reached a density greater than the nucleus of an atom. Gravity levels are so intense that nothing, not even light, may penetrate or escapte. They remain dark, and thus are called 'black holes'. They offer curious speculative concepts. 
One idea is that an object that enters the black would leave in another place and time· a real time machine. Scientists have also been taling about the use of black holes for energy. A rapid transit system, using the energy from black holes, would make a trip to the farthest star in the galaxy possible in two years, with speeds approaching the speed of light, exploiting only the potential of energy, as we presently understand it. 
APPROXIMATIONS TO THE COSTS Of 
'2 

ELECTRIC POWER (19~5 DOLLARS) 'rii 
r---, 8 
r::J ESTIMATED RANGE OF TOTAL COST I I Ill -OPERATING & MAINTENANCE COST I I I I ~ m::D. FUEL COST '()
' I I

1ZZJ CAPITAL COST 
I I 

I I > 
I ·a PRESENT NEAR FUTURE I FUTURE 0 
OPERATIONAL FROiol 1980's OPERATIONAL 
LIGHT COAL OIL·FIREO GEOTHEFWAL FUEL 90L.AR FAST COAL WATER FIRED GAS TUMINE CELLS BREEDER FIRED 
REACTOR STE-'M REACTOR MAGNETC· HYDRO DYNA¥1 
The problems of a fuel electric system are even greater when environmental factors are considered. By 2025, if the world population is eight billion and per-capita consumption is half the present level, if half the energy comes from coal, it would release SO percent more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, which could have potential disturbing effects upon global climate and food production. 
At the maze's end, lies not only the immediate needs and goals of our techno­logical society, but also the potential for the development of new technical and cultural trends affecting the entire future of mankind. Man satisfies his needs for survival as well as his inquisitiveness and curiosity about his own physical world, as he uncovers the philosopher's stone, commonly referred to as science and discovery. 

.!.......................£.................................................................................~ 
Thursday,-February 23, 1978____th....._e._o'!"'...b.....s....e~rv-"-e~r--~9 




Literature and
, 

Observer 
iFEATURES 


~RESTAURANTE 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 
F~EE!!! 
Soft drink with 3 items TACO' •eAB~TACQ 
• 
IIIRIIOS • TAJIALIS 

• 
EICIILADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSfADOS • lEAl TACO 

• 
IARIEQ.E TACO 

• 
SPAJIISI lOT 000 

• 
CIEESEBUICER 




"We carry a line of 
egetarian Foods. 


Theology 

Thomas Werge Prof. of English 
Notre Dame 
by Jack Pizzolato 
For Thomas Werge, associate professor of English at Notre Dame, theology and literature have a very special relationship. "Religious faith," according to Werge, ''traditionally has been the prerequisite condition for a great deal of literature that is certainly considered to be gre .t. ' 
Werge, who is presently t ~,'bing a course on the "Divine Comedy,'' by the medieval poet Dante Alighieri, first deve­loped an interest in religious studies while doing graduate work at Cornell University. "I really hadn't planned to get into the general area of religion and literature," Werge noted, "but I took a course in Puritanism and found that because of my undergraduate background at Hope Col­lege, an institution greatly influenced by Calvinism and associated with the Reform­ed Church, my interests began to turn towards religious questions.'' 
At Cornell, Werge took courses in medieval thought and literature while also pursuing his "great love" of American literature. "But no matter what specific chronological period I studies," he recall­ed, "the relationship between the litera-


Campus Profile 
tore and the kinds of religious images, symbols, and traditions that informed it ·.was always a dominant interest of mine." As a professor, Werge is concerned with increasing the awareness of students about i1e vital role that religion has played in the Jives of the great writers. "Before you can study Emerson," he pointed out, "you need to know that he was a minister and that his essays are structured in the fashion of sermons." Good writing, Werge argues, like religion, "is an act which intrinsically involves an attempt to articulate certain basic truths about man's destiny and the 
way in which he should live." 
"Because the interconnection between 
theology and literature is so close, it's 
important to the way I teach," Werge 
sta~ed. He went on to say that he was 
interested much more in ultimate truth, 
than with the formal or aesthetic elements 
of literature. This, he admitted, leaves him 
open to the modern charge that he is not 
viewing art as art. "But," he countered, 
''to view art purely is to denigrate it. 
Literature always attempts to get beyond 
pllre art." 

With each year, Werge finds himself moving more and more into the literary past. "There's so rnnl'h of worth in the past, that it's almost a necessary act of piety to explore it,'' he explained. 
Werge characterized much of contempo­rary literature as "jaundiced." He commmented that, while he did not dislike contemporary literature, the sweeping tide of the late 1960's, with its "incessant desire to be new,'' had emphasized contemporary literature in colleges and universities almost to the exclusion of traditional literary works. "To only know contemporary literature, is to know nothing at all," he asserted. "Without some sense of the past or tradition," he cntinued, "the individual is adrift, an isolated ego. The past can help give you a sense of a shared 
perspective and a humility, reverence, and affinity for all that has gone before, which is something vital and valuable." 
In the problems that plague the modern writer and modern literature, W erge sees the reflection of a larger defect in our modem culture. "To put objective truth into some form,'' he explained, "the writer must use symbols people will respond to. Yet in a culture which is entirely pluralistic and fragmented as in the United States, no recognizable symbolism exists." 
In traditional thought, Werge remarked, there is a relationship between a thing's appearance and its essence. "In our own time, however," he noted, "images are totally separate from their essence.'' The image, he sai4, is pictured as something deceptive or devoid of reality. 
•'If the images are seen as unreal, just appearances, then much of modern writ­ing," he concluded, "is shorn of its meaning." The only avenue left, Werge observed; is one for an intensely personal, egocentric and ultimately trivial literature. 
This trivializing of literature, Werge also commented, mirrors the trivializing of life. ''A lot of people are oblivious to the central moral problems in this world," he said. "If life is seen as unimportant, then literature can't be important." 
Werge is happy to be at Notre Dame, where, he feels, most of the students have been taught to think about questions of faith. There is, he said, a demonstrated willingness on the part of Notre Dame students to take such questions seriously. ''Students in general are now more receptive to the past and to tradition,'' he remarked, rejecting the critics who label this a sign of apathy or indifference. 
Werge has just finished a lengthy article on the "Diving Comedy," in which he examines the image of running in the poem. He is also preparing another short article on Dante. "The 'Divine Comedy' is unquestionably the greatest poem ever written," Werge contends. "Nobody thinks of ever having mastered the poem; everyone's an amateur. It's a delight to study and it gives one a sense of humility too," he added. 
In addition to his work on Dante, Werge is working on a book on the Puritan divine Thomas Shephard, and is gathering ideas for briefer essays on Melville and Emer­son. 
A Touch of the Poet Eugene O'Neill's search for his roots. Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4 at 8 

Hair Slfllng at It's Finest ­
Use our private entrance at the Queen's• Castle. 
Tues. & Wed.  8:30;6:30  
Thurs. & Fri.  8 :30-8 :30  
Sat.  8 :30-5 :30  

for Men 
The Knights 
SMC
277-1691 
272-0312 
THE AT R E All seats $2.50 Phone: 
54533 Terrace Lane 
$2 std-fac-staff 284-4176
Only 5 minutes 
O'Laughlin Aud.
from campus 



10 the observer Thursday, February 23, 1978 

························CAMPUS SHORTS········· •••••••••••••• 
l ND professors to visit Britain 
A group of Notre Dame profes­sors are planning to spend two weeks in Britain early this summer, touring scientific and technological 
i sites of historical interest. This has 
I 
been made possible primarily
~ 
\ through a grant from Uniroyal, Inc.
' 
whick has funded a proposal for the tour submitted by Professors Michael Crowe, General Program, and Bernard Norling, History. Crowe and Norling will serve as the tour directors. 
The group will visit London, Cambridge, Oxford, Manchester, and Glasgow and visit such locatins as the Whipple and South Kensing­ton Science Museums as well as Stonehenge. The group will also have seminars with prominent British experts on the history of science and technology. 
THe group, according to present plans, consists of: Professors 
' 
f l 
n ~ 
' ' 
l 1 
} 
I I 
' 
) I 
) I 
l 1 
r 
f 
Thomas Theis, Engineering; Wal­

Catholic history
ter Nicgorski, General Program; Paul Kenney, Ralph Thorson and topic of new book Daniel Winicur, all of the College of Science; and the tour directors. Religious revivalism, normally All the members of the group have associated with Protestant chur­participated in previous summer ches, was also part of the 19th seminars on the historical develop­Century history of American Cat­ment of science and technology. holicism and may provide insights These seminars were directed by into the currently popular Charis­Crowe and were aimed at allowing matic movement, according to a these roles of science and technol­book just published by the Univer­ogy in Western culture. sity of Notre Dame Press. 
FAC announces events 
The Freshman Advisory Council cents for skate rental. Refresh­
(FAC) will present the movie "The. ments will be served. 
Pink Panther Strikes Again," to­Tickets are now on sale for the 
night and tomorrow night at 7,9 Freshman Formal, ''Beginnings,'' 
and 11 p.m. in the Engineering scheduled for March 3 at 9 p.m. in 
Auditorium. Admission is $1. the Century Center. Tickets are $8 
per couple and may be purchased 
This Saturday, the FAC will in the North and South Dining sponsor a skating party at 9 p.m. in Halls at dinner tomorrow through the Ice Rink of the ACC. The price next Friday. At least one member is 75 cents for admission and 75 of each couple must be a freshman. 
Answer •IItheamusictrlv.. Questions: 
1. The first hit single released from Santana's
q....tlons correctly IUICI you 

new album Moonflower was originally recorded
will be eligible to win one of by: 

1188 prl.... 0 A. Zombies Priz•: 0 B. Yardbirds Gr8ftd Prize-A trip for two to Hollywood Including 0 C. Clydesdales round-trip airfare, two nights, three days hotel, 2. What individual made Asbury Park, New 24-hour limousine service, 120 second record 
Jersey famous? Hint: "The Boss"shopping spree at Tower Records, a fabulous Sansui GX-5 Rack Stereo System complete with 
1

Sansui components. concert tickets. studio tour 3. Who Is Robert Zimmerman and $300 spending money. Four Finl Prizes-Copies of all new CBS albums 
4. George Duke played keyboard for?
released for twelve months plus a complete 0 A. The StonesSansui G-3000 Music System. 

0 B. Frank Zappa and the MothersTen Second Priz....Your choice of any 25 CBS 0 C. Miles Davis
albums. 150 Third Prizn-Your choice of any CBS album 

5. Blue Oyster Cult's first hit single "Don't
plus the new Journey album Infinity and a 

Fear The Reaper" came oft their live album OnBud/Journey tee-shirt. 
Your Feet, On Your Knees.
1000 Runnen-Up-Bud tee-shirts. 

0 True BUDWEISER• '' 0 False ROCK AND ROLL TRIVIA TEST 
11. Ted Nugent recorded his first record withOFFICIAL RULEs-NO PURCHASE NECESSARY what group?
Here's How To Enter: 

1. On an official entry form. or plain piece of paper no larger 7. What is the title of Simon and Garfunkels Ilion 8'AI" x 11" (one Side only) hand pintyour nama •nd •ddress, 
first album?
and your T-shirt size (S,M.l.,Xl). This will help us it you .,. Htecled as a T-shu-t winner. Be sure to indic.te on your entry 0 A. Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M. your answers to lhe Rock Music-TriW. questions. Mail your entry 0 B. Sounds of Silence 
10: BUOWEISER ROCK ANO ROLL TRIVIA TEST, P.O. BOX 9017, 

0 C. Greatest Hits
BLAIR, NEBRASKA 18009 in 1 h•nd addr-env~ no ~~'::" !~r':.!'!:~:ts~·;~=~=!~h 30. 1978_Enter as often I. ~hat animals are on Eric Gale's new album u you wish.DIIt each en1ry mu01 be mailed 18paral<tly. AH Wlflners Multiplication? ----------­
will be determined in 1 random drawing from among •• entrtes received. To quality lor a prize, you must correctly answer all of . • 11\eRockandRoMTrlviaqueslions.Randomdrawingsw•Ubeunder •• What two CBS recording artiStS starred in the 
llle superviSion of lhe D.L. BLAIR CORPORATION, an indepen-movle"2laneBiacktop?" -------­
dent Judg•ng organ.nttOn. whose dee1s10n1 are hnal on all matters relat•no to this offer. -------­
3. This prize offer is open to retldentt of the United States who are or legal drinking ~e in the•r State at the time of entry, except 1o. Felix Cavaliere of Treasure was the keyboardemploy.,... of Anheuser-Busch. Inc.. CBS. lne.. their affiliaiH. 
player and vocalist in the Rascals:
and subsKhanes. distributors. agents. retailers and the families ot eacn. Offer vo1d in M1uouri, California, Michigan and wherever 0 True prohibited by law. 'IOld via retail store partic•pation in the State of 0 False Maryland. limit one prize per lamily. No substttution of prize is. permitted Taxes on prizes are !he responsobilily ollhe r IZe 11. Whatgroupwasfamousforthesong 11Chestnut wmnars All Federal, Sial& and local laws and regulahons a~ ply. Mare?" ------------­
4. All Rock and Roll Trivia questions are based on arttsts and groups who record lor CBS and CBS afflllaled record companies. 12. Dave Mason's former group was called: 
Alltri\lta quesuons are based on gftneral knowledge and no pur­chase ol any CBS Records or Tapes 11 reqUired to answer any 0 A. Traffic quesllon. 0 B. Crawler 
The Grand Prize winn..-musllake lhe lrip lo deparl April 28, 1978 0 C Them 
and return Apnl30, 1978. Tl'le Grand Prize 1ncludes a 120 second • shopping spree a1 a Tawer Record slore in Los Angeles. The 13. TheEpicActwiththeinitialsMFis: ---­
Grand Prize wrnner w1ll have 120 &econds 10 select any amount of record albums avarlable 1n the store. and put them mto the trunk of the limousine parked dtrectly 1n front of tne store. The Grand 
member of what SO's 

Pnze wanner w111 not be able to use any receptacles or equ1pment 14. Henry Gross was a to carry the record albums. revival group?
S. For a hst of major pnze winners and correcl answers available 

D A. Flash Cadillac
after lhe close ot the pJomotlon. send a separate S&lf·lddressed slamped envelope lo: BUDWEISER ROCK AND ROLL TRIVIA WIN­0 B. Sha Na Na 
NERS LIST, P.O. BOX 8400, BLAIR NEBRASKA 68009. 0 C. Firesign Theater 

Sponsored by Budweiser and CBS Records. 
"Catholic Revivalism: The Am­erican Experience 1830-1900," written by Dr. Jay P. Dolan, associate professor of history at Notre Dame, argues that the parish mission was the catalyst for a Catholic revival in the second half of the last century that paralleled traditional evangelical thrusts of protestantism. 
Dolan, who is also director of the Center for the Study of American Catholicism at Notre Dame, uses sermons, parish records and eye­witness accounts to chronicle reli­gious phenomena of the time, including sacramental evangeli­calism, ultramontane pious prac­tices and temperance pledges which grew out of parish mission activity. He draws comparisons and contrasts with Protestant re­vival efforts and indicates how today's Charismatic Catholics, who are presently the fastest growing movement in American Catholi­cism, have roots in this earlier Catholic revival experience. 
KING OF BEERSI!II • ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC. • ST. LOUIS 
15. How many statues are on the jacket of Boz 
Scaggs' new album "Down Two Then Left?" 0 A. Three 0 B. Four 0 C. One 
111. on what CBS associated label did Lou Rawls 
record his new album When You've Heard Lou You've Heard It All? 
17. Who hns been known as "The Piano Man," "The Entertainer" and "The Stranger?"--­
11. What English artist wears red shoes and his 
last name is half of a famous comedy duo? 0 A. Martin Lewis 0 B. Elvis Costello D C. Bob Stiller 
11. Kenny Loggins was once a member of 
Buffalo Springfield. 0 True D False 
20. 
What will be the title of Chicago's next album? 

21. 
What famous female singer started 


career with The Great Society? 0 A. Janis Joplin 0 B. Gracie Slick 0 C. Karla Bonolf 
22. 
Journey's new album is entitled Infinity. 0 True 0 False 

23. 
Who was the lead singer on Jeff Beck's


album Truth?____________ 
24. Who is known as"The Red-Headed 
Stranger?" 0 A. Willie Nelson D B. Johnny Winter D C. Edgar Winter 
PRIZES PROVIDED BY BUDWEISER, 
CBS RECORDS AND SANSUI. Send completed test tc.: BUDWEISER ROCK AND ROLL TRIVIA TEST, 
P.O. BOX 9025. BLAIR. NEBRASKA 68009 Please note T-shirt size 
0 small 0 medium D large 0 X-large Name_______________ 
Address______________ 
City•______state ___ Zip__ 
Telephone _____________ 
Void where prohibited by law. 
Party to feature 'Gong Show' 
The Pre-St. Patrick's Day Party and Gong Show at Giuseppe's Restaurant this Saturday night was the main topic of discussion at Tuesday night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Social Commission. 
''The Gong Show will be the highlight of the evening," said Christy Jones, chairman of the event. She explained that half the restaurant has been rented for the event, which will last from 9p.m. until 2a.m. Admission of $2 includes beer and entertainment, with "plenty of music, dancing, and good times for all," Jones promised. 
Acts are still needed for the Gong Show, which will offer prizes of $50, $35 and $20 for the top three acts. Anyone interested in partici­

I
pating should contact Nanne Mur­

• j 
ra at 4298. 
.. 


Thursday, February 23, 1978 the observer 11 
Warriors enjoy number-one ranking 
[AP) ·The Marquette Warriors are points. With a shot at becoming 
back in college basketball's No. 1 the best shooting team in Mar­
position and Coach Hank Ray-quette history, the Warriors 
monds isn't about to turn it down. bettered their season mark of 51.1 
"Coaches are hypocrites when they percent by hitting 27 of 42 shots for 
say they don't want the No. 1 64 percent. 
rating," Raymonds said following "There is no question this is a 
the Warriors' 75-53 rout of Xavier better team than last year," Ray-. 
of Ohio Monday night. "That's mands said. "We have more 
why you play the game. If you can't poise, more experience and cer­
be No. 1, then you wantto be No. 2. tainly a better bench." 
Marquette was No. 2 until top-"Our last five or six games we've 
ranked Arkansas bowed to Houston played about the best basketball we 
over the weekend. And Kentucky, can," Raymonds said. "We'll see 
which moved up from third to bow good we are when we go into 
second, avenged an earlier loss at the lion's den Sunday at Notre · Alabama by trimming the Crimson Dame.'' 
Tide 97-84 at home Monday night. Kentucky upped its record to 
Only two other members of this 21-2 by trouncing Alabama as 
week's Associated Press Top Jack Givens scored 22 points and 
Twenty were in action. lllinois Rick Robey added 18. Alabama got 
State, ranked 15th, drubbed 24 from Reggie King and 20 from 
McNeese State 87-68 while No. 17 Robert Scott but Kentucky blew 
Syracuse clobbered Fordham open a 29-28 game with an 18-3 
109-62. burst over the last 5 and one half 
Butch Lee became Marquette's minutes of the first half. Givens, No. 3 all-time scorer as the who scored 20 points in the first Warriors raced to their 22nd tri-half, had 10 in that stretch. umph in 24 outings and defeated "I felt we were gonna play," Xavier. Lee scored 12 points for a said Coach Joe B. Hall. "I could career total of 1,648. see it in their eyes. We were sharp 
However, Jerome Whitehead from the first play of the game. took scoring honors with 20 Our defense was sharp. We had a super effort out of everybody." responded with 23 points, leaving straight victory at home, thrashing 
lllinois State designated its game him four shy of second place on the Fordham as Louis Orr scored 10 of against McNeese as Billy Lewis school's all-time list. the Orangemen's first 12 points. Night and the senior forward Syracuse notched its 27th Orr finished with 18 points. 

Irish women await districts 
by Maureen IDuglmey year and will continue to get and Goshen College in their pool. Sports Writer better.'' Notre Dame had already played The Irish have come on strong and defeated Goshen in a close 
The Notre Dame women's the last half of the season, much of contest this season. The team has Basketball team hopes to continue it due to the return of Jane Politiski a very optimistic outlook on the their very successful first varsity to the Notre Dame line-up. outcome of the games with Carola season as they travel to St. Politiski has dominated both the Cummings announcing, "We will Joseph's College to participate in offensive and defensive boards for win the districts." the North District Finals this Friday the Irish. She has gotten much 
Should the Irish win their pool onand Saturday. help from rotating forwards Kelly Saturday, they will qualify for theThe 11-2 Irish concluded their Hicks, Carol Lally, Marge Meagher State Championships, to be held atbest regular season since the and Pate Meyer. The women Anderson College the followingteam's inception four years ago. cagers have also perfected their weekend. The competition wouldThe future looks bright for the press-breaking fast break, led by consist of the two winners from the Irish. Co-captain Carol Lally guards Maggie Lally and Molly South District and the other cham­predicted that, "Next year will be Cashman. Not to be forgotten is pion from the North District.
the same if not better -the team the Irish bench, which has been a will have one more year of experi­force in many of the games. Notre Dame has a good shot at ence while losing only Marge Notre Dame will be going into the districts since they have seen 
(Meagher) and Byrne (Murphy). the districts with it's strongest many of the teams in action before. The other Irish captain and only team ever. The tournament con­. The Irish are going in with high 
player on the team for all of it's sists of 11 teams split into three hopes, but as Molly Cashman four years added that the "Team pools. The Irish will oppose the cautiously added, "The districts has gotten better and better every . likes of Huntington, St. Francis, are a different season." 
Sophomore gym shorts are in. ALL SIZES. 
One roommate to share Campuc View apartment. Please call 277-3509. 
Last chance to get your class of '80 shorts. Soph. office. 1-4 p.m. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL8086. 
That's one gaudy ad. 
Accurate, fast typing. MRS. DONOHO 232-0746 Hours 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Dissertations. manuscripts paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters 287­4971. 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7 
p.m. Anyone wishing to make appoint­ment for confession may phone CampusMinistry at 6536 or 3820. 
L ~an Volunteers: Dance this Friday··•;·.t, Feb. 24, at Logan Center, 7:30 p.rr.. ··a•'J:OO p.m. Come and dance the nignt alo'loy! Rides leave N D Main Circle aLd Holy Cnss Circle at St. Mary's at 7:15p.m. Any questions call Art Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391). 
Typing done in home. Fast accurate reasonable. Close to campus. Call 272­7866 anytime. 
All this competition could kill me. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona 85011. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Progessional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
FOR RENT 
Available for Sept. Five bedroom house, also three bedroom apartment. Call Nancy Humbarger 234-9364. 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Calculator Call Tony 1027 to Identify. 
Lost: One sterling silver necklace, be­tween Gym 4, ACC and Alumni. Medal is a cross surrounded by a triangular shelter. Save me from suicide! Brian 
3774-7958. 
Lost: A pocket camera somewhere be­tween North Dining Hall and Administra­tion building on Saturday of snowstorm. Please call Ruth 1317. 
Lost: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
Lost: One red and green scarf, probably In South Dining Hali. Call 6326. 
Lost: One blue ski glove (left hand), between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thursday, Feb. 2, approx. 4:45 p.m. If found please contact George at 1238. 
Lost: Gold cross necklace on SMC campus. Reward. Cathy 5454. 
Lost: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar sat. nite. Special X-mas present. Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
Lost: A pair of large brown-framed eyeglasses in a brown case. Reward. Call Rocky 1773. 
Found Silver wire-framed glasses outside ACC before Maryland game. Call 1475. 
Lost: Ladies gold watch at Mardi Gras Sat. Linda 7812. 
Found: Men's gloves in Room 343 Nieuwland. Call 272-2548 to claim. 
Valuable8en found approx. 2weeks agobetween 'Shag and Chern. EngineeringBldgs. Call 3869 to claim. 
WANTED 

Need 2 GA Marquette tix for mom and dad/ Bob 1881. 
Help! I need Marquette tickets! Call Anne 4983. 
Need 4 GA Marquette tickets. Call Dale 8766. 
Need ride to Indianapolis or Bloomington Feb. 24. Call 1361. 
Need riders to Oklahoma City of Tulsa for break. Leave 1 7th Brian 1641. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer-year-round, Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free ifnormation Write BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Get rich quick! Just call 272-5843 and sell me your Marquette ticket. Ask for Brian. 
One student or Ga Marquette ticket. Call Bill 7781. 
Need 4 tickets to Marquette game. Call Kim 272-4869. 
Desperately need 4Ga Marquette tickets. Call 1423. 
Need 2or 4 Marquette tlx. 8504 or 8502. 
Need up to 8 GA tlx for Marquette game. Call 1m. 
Need 2 Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane 
7883. 
Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
2 tickets for Marquette. Call Rich 1173. 
Need 4 tix for Marquette game. Call 277-5137. 
Desperately need Marquette tlx. Koplin 287-7051. 
Need 3 Ga and 1 student tlx for Marquette. Call Gary 1384. 
I need 3 student Marquette tickets. Call 277-2397. 
Need 2Ga Marquette NO tix. Please call T"P"M 256-1341. Keep waiting for that phone call -it's Pete, 
coming! . Due to the lack of consideration byWill pay excellent $ for 2 Marquette tix. profs and other insignificants, we can Student or Ga Call Rick at 8385 and name celebrate your birthday todya. So, Happy your price. Gay Community at NO lnforilne 8870 Birthday. 
Friday and Saturday 16-12 p.m. We are Rosemary Will pay big$ for NO-Marquette tix! Call your friends. P.S. I still think you have something to John 3829. look forward to. After all, don't a lot of 
JJ, things work backwards at NO?! Must have one Marquette tick. Will pay Here's your very personal personal. P.S. big. Call 8992. I hear you have a single? If the sundog is ''NA'' then so is Jimmy 
Me (alias TP~ Bowers! Call 1634 for details! Need ride to San Antonio for spring break. Call 1229. Girls: Make plans now to attend the Kristin: Hope your birthday is the Cincotta Formal. greatest. BL 
Need many GA Marquette tickets. Will talk $. Call 8685. Joe Andersen, I don't understand youn To charges of involuntary nose-slaughter, roommate's personals. G I plead guilty. But I must be acquitted on 
Need ride to U. of I. Champaign. Anytime grounds of self-defense. I'II settle out of Fri. 24th Share driving, expenses. Call J B Jess Swihart • court for 1 pitcher.1165. Time flies, 
Suns rise, Horn-horn: Do it at Quality Motor Inn! A Ride to Kansas City or St. Louis ar-ia any Shadows fall,weekend. Call Mark at 1436. Let time go by. Horn-Horn: Lunch is great, but so are Love is forever. OTHER things!! N 
Need ride to U. of I. Champaign anytime The ArchwayFri. 24. Share driving expenses. Horn-Horn: How does first floor Fisher Haircuts cheap. Styles trims. SMC 4530 Hall soung? L 
Nice phone number. Betsy 
Badin B-ball Babes, 5down! Only 3 more Desperately need 3 or 4 tix to Marquette Need 4 Ga tix for Marquette SMC 4530 to go! game. Phone 287-8479. Betsy 
Finish the weekend right at the An Tostal Two Ga tix for Marquette. Will pay $$$. Easy job. Call 233-7949 anytime Ol\ organizational meeting. Sunday night, 9 Call Mike 1478. SMW, or from 8a.m. to 2 p.m. on T T F p.m. LaFortune Theatre. All invited!! 
Last chance to ~et your Class of '80 UMOC is on the prowl! Call 2195 for FOR SALE shorts. ~oph. Offrce 1-4 p.m. details. 
Ski boots size 9.5 made by Kastinger Call Sophomore gym shorts are in. ALL SIZES Ugly man Is coming. Save your pennies3664 Don. 
Waitresses of the world beward. Conrad Now is the time for all uglies to get those Two adjacent student Marquette tix. Call Conceit is back in town. Be his dennys pennies.1944 or 3046. delight. 
Iron Curtin,
One Marquette student ticket. Call 8833 Learn to Disco. Call Ed or Tim anytime Need date for the formai. ..What's the last bid taken Thursday 9:00p.m. after 10:00 • 1175. rate. 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now To Mr. & Mrs. Perantoni, Tidmarsh, Kerry Dwyer, You finally made It available. Call 8982. Smith & Willis, weldome to NO Cnris Welcome to NO! Have a good weekend! 
BIC 981 turntable, only 3 months old. G The PDB Co. awards Kerry Dwyer one Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, night in the branch office! Congratswalnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Hey guys, it took me four years to get a HoneyCall 3058. personal, and already your parents have 
one. Wanted: Riders to-from Ft: Lauderdale Frozen yogurt machine. Great for money for spring break. 24 ft. Winnebago. Call minded student. Refreshing for the warm "Leo" Thanks for that special call a year Abe 287-4828. 
days ahead. Call Erma at Taco Rico and a half ago. Seven's my lucky291-3142. number!! 1-4-3 Arries With those eyes you don't need a sexy 
nightgown. Happy 21st Kristin. Love,Realistic TR-801, 8-track play-record tape Need a date? Young Adonis is available The Zoo deck. VU meters, many extras. Like new, 
weekends. and weeknights for funerals,make offer. Call Steve 8209. formals, & bar mitzvahs. Schoolwork is See NO's answer to Tony Maniero this 
no hassle-1 don't do it. AKA approved • Saturday night. The eighth wonder of the Panasonic AM-FM stereo with turntable have papers and shots. Special weekend world-Joe "Bag Body" -will disco his and cassette player-recorder plus 2 rates available. Call 2197 & ask for the way into your hearts at the Library
speakers. Excellent condition. 1.5 years Iron Curtin. old. $150 8173. Joe, Is that you?? Mary Ann. 
Kenwood 4400 stereo receiver. 2G watts We could say you're not getting older, Mom and Dad Perez: Welcome to per channel "very nice." condition. $85 you're getting better...but the truth campus. You're in for a heck of a time. Chuck 3386. hurts! Happy 21st anyway from your Jerry 
neighbors in 229! 
Chuck, your handwriting stinks. Cindy,
KQ, I'll never do my taxes on your time Just because a person receives apersonal'65 Chevy Impala, 327, 45,000 original again. Sorry! Happy Birthday. doesn't necessarily make it all that miles. Great mechanical shape, clean, no TH personal. ..but anyway, BARB, I'm goingdents, very little rust. Many new parts. to give It a go...on second thought I'd Priced to sell, $800. 283-8830 evenings. Hey Wissel, Happy birthday!!! better leave IT out of this. 
-------------Steve 
Why pay more? Flanner Records has all QUIEREN, Whenever I see your smiling$7.98 list LP's for only $5.29. All $6.98 face, I have to smile myself because... (Wink) -Dimples you're dead; (wink) ­list LP's for only $4.59. (plus tax) Flanner your radio Denise (H.L.) you're dead. Hi bro. Records 322 Flanner Phone 2741. ----------------Bill Roche and Maureen Carney: Good Don't Julie!!! Revenge is not that sweet! 
luck next year at Student Union. Con--------------­
PERSONALS 
gratulatlons~~appointments. Colleen_ ·CLASSIRED ......,.._,. 
James, Say Rami, think UGLY. Rami for UMOO 
I can't believe you thought Andy put that Save those pennies.ad ln. I'm hurt. G 
CLASSIRED 

12 the observer Thursd~y, Febru~ry 23, 1978 
Notre Dame swimmers fall to CSU in final home meet 
by Judy Hymes and Leigh Tunakan Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame swim team completed their final home meet of the season Tuesday as they lost to Cleveland State by a score of 59-54. 

This meet, following their loss to Monmouth College on Saturday afternoon, 69-44, brings their record to S-4. The final scores, however, do not reflect the fine performances of many swimmers. 
Monmouth, who finished fourth in the third Division of last year's NCAA Championships, was sparked by three returning All­American swimmers. Frank Christian proved his endurance by chalking up two consecutive vic­tories -the first in the 1 000-yd freestyle with a time of 10:09.1, and the second in the 200-yd freestyle with a time of 1:48.0. Notre Dame's Dave Campbell and BiiJ Swift finished second and third in the 1000-yd freestyle event with times of 10:42.6 and 11:11.4, respectively, whereas Steve Fitz­morris clinched third for the Irish in the 200-yd freestyle with a time of 
1:53.9. ' 
Don Dixon, another Monmouth All-American, notched three first place positions. His times in the 200-yd Ind. Medley, 200-yd back'" stroke and 500-yd freestyle events of 2:01.0, 2:02.0 and 4:53.4, re­
' 
spectively, displayed his ver­satility.J Notre Dame dominated the div­
(
t 
ing competition as Joe Caverly broke the existing varsity record in the 1-meter diving. His score of 
i ' 
277.55 topped Mark Foster's 
j record of 270.30 set in 1975. Fritz Shadley added depth for the Irish by snatching second with a score of 
263.65. Monmouth All-American : : Dave Connery's score of 246.75 notched third. 
I 
Caverly and Shadley also racked up points for Notre Dame by 
placing first and third in the 3-meter event, with scores of 
275.15 and 246.46, respectively. Mike O'Brien's score of 252.15 
I 
.. t captured second for Monmouth. ' l Notre Dame broke it's second 
l ' 
! varsity record of the meet when John Komora's time of 4:54.8 took second in the 500-yd freestyle event. Komora set the previous record time of 4:56.4 last week
: ~ against Bowling Green. '': ! Swimmers Andy Petro and cap­i tain Doc Severyn displayed their 
strength for the Irish in the 200-yd 
breaststroke event. Petro seized 
first with a time of 2:23.3, followed 
closely by Severyn's time of 2:24.6. 
Another Irish stronghold o­
ccurred in the 50-yd freestyle event 
as Ed Fitzsimons and Tom Hartye 
swept first and second, with a time 
of :22.8.. 
The relay team of Mark Chiles, 
Petro, Hartye, and Fitzsimons 
placed second in the opening 
medley with a time of 3:44.6. In 
the 400-yd freestyle relay, Severyn, 
Rod McLaughlin, Tom Krutsch, 
and Komora were edged out of first by .4 of a second, finishing second ·for the Irish with a time of 3:22.1. "We swam well in a losing effort 
against a tough team," commented 
Coach Dennis Stark. 
In yesterday's meet against 
Oeveland State, Notre Dame's 
Komora had an outstanding day as 
he captured first place in three 
events and broke a varsity record. 
In the 500-yd freestyle, Komora · 
succeeded in breaking the record 
he set on Saturday, with a winning 
time of 4:54.5. Campbell added 
depth for the Irish by capturing 
second with a time of 4:59.6. 
Komora's strength in the distance 
freestyle events was reinforced as 
he took first in the 1000-yd event 
with a time of 10';45.5. Mike 
Noonan's time of 10:51.3 clinched 
second place for the Irish. Kom­
ora's third victory came in the 
200-yd Ind. Medley as his time of 
2:04.8 edged Cleveland State's Tom Hieber's time of 2:05.0. McLaughlin pulled in third for Notre Dame with a time of 2:07.2. 
Diving was again an Irish strong­hold, as Caverly captured both the 1-meter and 3-meter events, with scores of 277.15 and 253.70, re­spectively. Notre Dame's depth in diving was displayed as Shadley placed in both events. His score of 
216.15 in the 1-meter clinched third, whereas he gained second place in the 3-meter event with a score of 226.4. 
Fitzsimons' time of :22.7 in the 50-yd freestyle took second in the event for the Irish. In the 400-yd freestyle, the relay team of Fitz­simons, Fitzmorris, Krutsch, and Hartye notched first with a time of 3:21.9. 
Notre Dame will conclude it's dual meet season this Friday as they travel to lllino1s State. They will then look toward the Motor City Invitational in Detroit March 2-4. 


Tracksters thrash Wildcats 
by Frank LaGroUa Sports Writer 
After some tough competition, the Notre Dame Track team will have 
. ( 
this weekend off to reflect on some fine individual performances. 
Last Friday, the squad took to rhe road to compete in the Central Collegiate Conference Champion­ship Meet in Ypsilanti, Michigan. The two-day event was highlighted by Chuck Aragon's NCAA-qualify­ing performance in the 880-yard run. The freshman's time of 
1:52.20 was good enough for third place in the event and earned him a berth in the National Finals to be held at the Cobo Hall in Detroit, MI on March 10-11. 
Other individual standouts at the Central meet included Steve Welch who ran a personal best of 13:58 in the 3-mile. Dennis VanderKraats also tallied the best time of his career at 9:01 in the 2-mile race. The Irish placed two runners in the finals of the 1000-yard run and Bill Allmendinger finished the race with 2:12:05 on the clock, a personal best for him. Perry Stow placed sixth in the pole vault event with a vault of IS-feet. 

Monday, the Irish hiked their dual-meet record to 2-0 as they defeated Northwestern, 86-45 at the ACC. Notre Dame place first in 10 of the 15 events and swept the top three places in the high jump, mile run, 880-yard dash and the 1000-yard nan. Junior sprinter Kris Haines took two firsts in the 60-yard dash and the 300-yard dash. Perry Stow recoroed a fine pole vault of 15'6" and Dan Knott's 10 2/4" long jump was, according to Coach Joe Piane, "very pleas­ing." 
"Obviously I was very happy with our performances,'' Piane commented. "I think we're doing well right now in all phases of competition." 
While the team takes a break this weekend, Coach Piane will still have plenty to'do as the University ofNotre Dame, in conjunction iwht the .United States Marine Corps and Scholastic Coach Magazine, will sponosor the first annual National Track and Field Clinic. 
Coaches from throughout the Midwest will gather at the the Quality Inn in South Bend, Indiana to hear some of the nation's most noted track experts. There will be lectures on many phases of track and field. 
''The clinic is ideal for coaches and instructors on all. levels of competition from junior high school to college varsity,'' according to Piane. "The lectures are designed for both men and women." 
Featured speakers at the week­end clinic include Dr. Leroy W al­ker, member of the board of directors of the United States Olympic Committee, and Rich Wohlhuter, former Notre Dame 

,,,. ~pet 


Irish fencers eye Badgers, lllini 

by Paul Mullaney Sports Writer 

Coach Mike DeCicco's Notre 
Dame fencers, not having lost in 
their last 78 meets, will-encounter a 
severe test this Saturday. The Irish 
swordsmen travel to Champaign­
Urbana to fence Illinois and Wis­
consin, two of the Big Ten's 
strongest fencing products. 
Coming off a weekend sweep of 
Ohio State and Michigan State, 
DeCicco's troops will have their 
hands full in quest of season wins 
number 12 and 13. Both Illinois 
and Wisconsin have already 
defeated Ohio State, last year's Big 
Ten champion. 
The Badgers boast some strong 
returnees from their 1977 squad. Senior Steve Vandenberg brings last year's Big Ten epee title into Iaction this year. The Wisconsin co-captain and 1977 Most Valuable Performer also placed 12th in the 
NCAA championship meet. 
Also-receiving much recognition 
for Wisconsin is sabreman Dave 
Kevetter. The senior co-captain 
placed third in sabre at the Big Ten meet a year ago, as well as 26th at the national title tourney. 
Kevetter and Vandenberg were both named to the 1977 all-midwest fencing team, as were Notre Dame's gold medalists Pat Gerard (foil) and Mike Sullivan (sabre). 
Sophomore Kevin Cawley has been instrumental in Illinois' success thus far in 1978. His 30-2 sabre record has led the 11lini, last year's Big Ten runner-up, to win all but one of their 12 meets this season. The only Illinois blemish was at the hands of fencing power Wayne State, 14-13, last weekend. 
Senior foilsman Kent Lavelle, whose high school coach is now assistant Notre Dame coach Father Larry Calhoun, has won 24 of 29 bouts for the Illini this year. Freshman Mike Pacini has stepped into the big time, leading the Illinois eppee squad with a 26-6 slate. 
"They're gonna have a well balanced team,'' anticipated DeCicco. "But I'm not sure they'll match up with us. If we're not ready, though, they'll pose a problem.'' 
Sullivan, Notre Dame's sabre captain and owner of the all-time highest Irish winning percentage, will be given a good fight by Cawley. However, DeCicco doesn't expect any problems. 
''The only way Mike SuJiivan will lose to any sabre man in the country will be if he decides not to fight sabre, and street fights," demanded DeCicco. "When he concentrates on sabre, nobody can beat him." 
Sullivan has received some unex­pected support from the rest of the sabremen this year, especially from sophomore Chris Lyons, who has compiled a 22-2 record thus far in his first year of varsity experience. 
"1 can't believe Lyons," said DeCicco. "He's started so well. Even on the whole we're further ahead than we anticipated at the beginning of the year. 
"Sabre is winning at almost a 7-2 clip, more than expected. Even with a (sabre coach Ed) DeVivo and a Sullivan we didn't expect it." 
Who knows what to expect this weekend? Surely the Irish will be prepared for anything. 

Trivia 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Part T.,. • ,j"... 
~st ~e~ester this column carried a test for sports trivia buffs and' although no one person got every answer (those that submitted them to me), some people came quite close to being correct all the way around. In any case, I hereby present the second part of sports trivia toughies and have included several questions that were submitted to me by interested readers. Once again, I will refrain from asking outlandishly difficult questions and hope that you regard this piece as a simple test of your general sports intelligence. 
The college basketball season is heading into the stretch run and pretty soon, there wil be 32 teams competing for the NCAA title. And as we at Notre Dame know getting to the final four is no easy task. In fact only five schools other than UCLA have made it to the finals more than once. I ask you to name them without looking them up. That question comes via Jeff Jeffers of WNDU. 
Speaking of college basketball, can you guess which NCAA school had the most former players playing in the NBA at the start of the season? And if that's not tough enough for you, how about naming ~he sch?Ols the following NBA players attended: Juhus Ervmg, Earl Monroe, Doug Collins, Sam Lacey, Jack Marin, Mack Calvin and Slick Watts. 
I'll close out on college basketball by asking you toname the active coach of a Division I team that has the best career winning percentage. 
Turning briefly to football, try to name the city that had a team win consecutive NFL titles although they · re ~o separate teams. Also, who is the only NFL player ever to score a field goal, a touchdown, a safety and an extra point in his NFL career? 
Turning to baseball, try to name every maj. ... ;••qgut. hitter _who has hit at least SO homers in one seas?r.. Speakmg of sluggers, can you name the two retired players who have the same number, but more than 500 career homers? Also, who was the Ia~t pitcher to win at least 20 games and lose at least 20 tn the same season? . 
Several ~ears ~go, Ron Hunt set a new maJor league record .whde wtth th~ Montreal Expos that really made htm sore. W~at ts the record ~e se~? Who held the record before htm? How many did this man have? 
(I hope that makes se~se to you). Name the thr~e Yankee catchers who hit 20 or more homers each In the same season. 
In 1965, the Los Angeles Dodgers won the World Championship with an all switch-hitting infield. Name the players and their positions. (Question courtesy of Bill Staniecki) Finally in baseball, who was the last man to make an unassisted triple play (it 
ended the inning).  .  
Just a few more bits and piec es.  Who was  P~il  
Esposito's  first  NHL  coach?  Who  was  Wilt  

Chamberlins' last pro b~sketball coach? Here are a few Notre Dame questiOns: Who holds the Notre Dame football record for longest punt an how many yards? Who scored the first Notre Dame touchdown ever? And finally, what Notre Dame players other than Ross Browner have won the Outland Trophy? 
Now that I think about .it, this is a pretty easy test because all of the questions are _pretty much about recent phenomena. Take the hme to answer the questions and send them to me at 508 Grace Hall. 
•tease fill my mailbox and best of luck...answers to follow next week. 
There will be a pep rally for the Marquette game this Saturday, February 25, at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Guest speakers will Include AI McGuire, Chris "Hawk" Stevens,~_Randy Haefner, 
Jeff Carpenter and Head Coach. Digger Ph.,lps •. The . cont.,~t · wHh .· the warrloiS Is slated 108 start at 4 p.m. on Sunday.
-----. .. ... .·... -·· -·-· . ·.· . -.-·......-." -.. ·:-:·.-: ·-···.. ·.·: : ·-:-_·_ .. 
track star and world record·holder.---LJW~~~~U.:;.!L!:~~~~~~~~~~~~IAirL~~~~~~~;;,;;,.;;i.......,......,...._....,.......,......,.........,.......,. 
-'~----, 







