
The logan Center picnic was held Saturday next to Saint Mary's lake [photo by Mark 
Most of the other recommendations needing improvement, and made recom­
Muench[ 
made in the SAl report will also be mendations in mid-March. 
Soviet interceptor attacks airliner 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska [AP] • for hours Thurs9ay before entering to Paris from Helsinki, said the day. The plane landed at Ancho­flight information recorder. The co-pilot of a South Korean Soviet airspace., The plane radioed shooting started about 90 minutes rage International Airport at 11:42 The survivors· accounts of jetliner downed in northwest Rus­its last position !as near Ellesmere before the Paris-Seoul flight was a.m. AST, 4:42 EST to refuel Thursday's misguided and harrow­sia said yesterday the crew receiv­Island, Canada's northernmost due in Anchorage for a refueling before heading on to Seoul with a ing flight answered some questionsed no warning from a Soviet MIG point and more 1 than 1.000 miles stop. stop-over at Tokyo. It carried 103 about the incident but raised still interceptor before it opened fire -from where it was forced down. KAL president Cho Choonhoo, passengers and crew members others -such as why the Russians blasting a hole in the fuselage. Teh precise flight plan, filed in accompanying the relief flight to from the ill-fated flight. 
took such unusual action when the 
killing two persons and wounding Paris, was not available yesterday. Seoul, said earlier there may have· The relief plane also carried the plane apparently had been over 
10. Some passengers said they been a Soviet warning, but the bodies of the two dead passengers, their trerritory for only 18 minutes. 
Cha Soon-do. 43. of Seoul, who thought at first the fighter was an question could not be answered a Japanese and a Korean.. Three After the jetliner's forced land­landed here aboard another KAL American jet welcoming them to because the pilot was still in the passengers chose to return to ing frozen lake in northwest Rus­jet. said "They (the Russians) say Alaska, a refueli.ng stop on what Soviet Union, detained along with Europe rather than continue to 
sia, Japanese passengers said,
they warned us," but the firing was to have been a Paris-to-Seoul the navigator. · Seoul. pilot Kim Chang-kyu told them he came as a surprise. "I was on the flight. The passengers spoke with In addition to holding the pilot had a "sixth sense" he was international emergency frequency Passenger Jealil-Claude Fory, a reporters before boarding the KAL and navigator, the Soviets confis­heading in the wrong direction but but I did not hear anything ... we French businessman who returned relief jet, which left Helsinki Sun-cated the plane's "black box" 
[continued on page 11]
didn't contact at all," he said. 
Soviet authorities said they tried 'No rea'l Justice' to contact the jetliner. which crash­landed on a frozen lake after the MIG's burst of fire. 
Cha said he first noticed the 
Garry discusses justicefighter when it flew alongside "for about two minutes...no indication I 


The Observer 
an independe111t student newspaper servi~g notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 123 Monday, April 24, 1978 

New driving program given thirty-day trial 
by Barb Breitenstein implemented. Roemer has tssued direc­
Executive Editor Emeritus tives ordering the installation of buzzers in 
the women's showers in both the ACC and 

A thirty-day trial program for driving the Rockne building, implementing the women to their residence halls on campus recommendations to improve campus light­has been implemented by dean of Students ing, and ordering Pears to follow recom­James Roemer, as a result of the recent mendations to strengthen the SecuritySecurity Audit Inc.'s (SAl) evaluation of Department.Notre Dame Security. "One recommendation we are looking
The program will allow women to be into," Roemer said, "is putting the picked up and returned to their halls by car director of security in charge of security for in case of formals, and will allow any car the ACC. That way he could issue orders with a student decal parking on campus for to the county police at the ACC as well." 15 minutes if the driver is returning a "There are 80 or 90 recommendations in woman to campus between the hours of 11 that report, and we are implementing 90 
p.m. and 5 a.m. The program which will percent of them," Roemer stated. continue through the remainder of this Some of the recommendations that have semester, was one of several women's not beem implemented include placing a security recommendations made by the guard in a temporary shelter on the road to SAl report. Saint Mary's, organizing a student honor 
However, Roemer stressed, this pro­patrol, and Security uaiform changes. gram is only temporary. "We want to see The honor patrol is still being looked if there are any additional problems with into. Roemer, Student Body President 
traffic, crime, or safety with permitting Andy McKenna, and Director of Financial more cars on campus,'' he said. Aid June McCauslin are studying student ''The great concern is that there is only . reaction to the program and the possibility 
one road on campus," Roemer continued, of funding for aid to student guards."and an awful lot of students walk on that "We want some student input on the 
road. The concern is about safety when honor guards," Roemer said. "We want to students are drinking and driving on know if it will be taken seriously or if it will campus. I am going to be watching traffic just be a joke. We also would like to know very carefully.'' if the women would really walk with them The program will be permanently im­or would prefer to walk by themselves." plemented next year, if traffic and safety The six-week study evaluated the ND 
and security are not appreciably jeopardi­security force, women's security at Notre zed by the experiment, according to Dame, security in the ACC and at the Roemer, and a decision will be made football stadium and Senior Bar. SAl sometime this summer. submitted its report, which listed areas 
of its intent. After about five minutes we were shot." 
He added: "I tried to call. think the frequency for the Korean nation and the Soviet Union is a different one." 
Asked how far the KAL jet strayed into Soviet airspace, the reason the Soviets gave for forcing down the plane, Cha said 'I can't say how far. a little bit I think.'' He spoke not long before a special flight took off, headed for Seoul with the disabled plane's passen­gers. 
Several passengers on the Ko­rean Air Lines (KAL) Boeing 707, which had 110 persons aboard when it crashed-landed. said before leaving Helsinki. Finland. they saw no warning before the attack. 
They said the pilot told them he apparently went off his polar-rout course because of a malfunctioning cockpit compass and strayed into Soviet air space. A KAL official said the plane had a backup navigation system and an investi­gation was being made to deter­mine why it was not able to correct the problem. 
KAL President Cho Choonhoo, who boarded the relief jet Sunday for the trip to Seoul, said the jet had veered off-course 100 miles. 
One unanswered question was where the plane actually was flying 
by Laura Uuimor 
! 

Charles Garry, a leader in the fight for justice in: the American courtroom and author of Street· fighter in the Coqrtroom, spoke Saturday afternoon iin the Library Lounge to a group j of about fifty people. i 
His appearance ~ras sponsored by the Notre Dame ;chapter of the National Lawyers Guild in conjunc­tion with the Sti.tdeint Union Aca­demic Commission,j the Women's Rights Association,' and La Raza Law Students Association. 
Garry opened his talk with the statement "There i~ no, such thing as real justice." He idescribed laws as rules and regul~tions to keep members of societYJ from running into each other. I 
After discussing 1 his views on American law in general, Garry began a descdption:of his defense in teh 18-month San Quentin Six trial. the longest· in American history. The cas~. Garry said, resulted from an inc1dent at the San Quention Penitentiary in 1971 where three guards and two inmates were killed:in cold blood. Charged were John~y Larry Spain, Mr. Garry's client, and five others. The initial indictment was ruled invalid on the grounds that the grand jury was unlawfully consti­tuted, but the decision was later reversed by the appeals court. 
The trial was marked by contro-' 
versy from the beginning Garry 
explained. After testimony was. 
concluded, the jury deliberated for • 
over a month. The verdict acquitted three of the defendants and found the other three guilty of only . conspiracy to escape and conspir­acy to murder, not of a "specific act 
Garry also told of the events of Johnny Larry Spain's life as back­ground for the trial story. He described Spain as the classic example of racism in America. Spain was born illegitimatly of a white mother and black father in Mississippi, but was forced to live with a black family in Los Angeles when he reached the age of five. Garry described Spain as "a victim of circumstances with his early life 
1 . 
II· 
having a dramatic effect on his adult life. After an emotional endorsement of his client's perso­nal integrity. Garry concluded his talk with a reading of Spain's statement to the court, which Spain wrote himself, originally given during the sentencing. 
A question and answer session followed the talk and refreshments were served.

of wrongdoing", 
GarryI 
II I . 
I !I 
I . 
i 
I I 
I ! 
l I 
l 
I 


~~· I 
I 
~ 

according to 
Monday, April 24, .. 1978
the observer



News Briefs _________ 

Two newspapers, corrtere della 
Sera of Milan and D Messagero of 
Rome, said secret talks between 
the kidnappers and the Moro 
family may be in progress, possibly 
through an attorney for 15 Red 
Brigade members on trial in Turin 
on sedition charges. The family, in 
seclusion, denied the reports 
through Moro's aides. 
The Brigades' ultimatum spoke 
of "hundreds of communist pri­
soners in the concentration camps 
of the imperialist state'' but did not 
say how many must be released. 
Nor did it make a specfic demand 
for the release of the Turin defen­
dants. An estimated 400 leftist 
extremists-including about 150 
Red Brigade members -are in 
Italian jails serving terms for 
murder, arson and other ,violent 
crimes. 

ALSAC needs new members for services 
Frank Murphy, president of the 
Arts and Letters Student Advisory 
Council, (ALSAC), has announced 
that interviews for new members 
will be held Sunday afternoon and 
next Thursday evening. Students 
interested in the council should 
contact him at 1073 to schedule an 
interview. · Applicants are asked ttJ submit a resume and one page statement of purpose before attending the inter­view. 
ALSAC is comprised of students 
from the College of Arts and 
Letters who advise the Dean on 
academic policy and provide ser­
vices for the College. . The council has worked on 

....
proposals such as the grade grie­vance procedure, the opening of "Meet Your Major" programs to freshmen, and a measure allowing sophomores to get their Form 50's signed before registration day. 
The council has worked in other areas and new subjects of interest are now being planned for next year. 
~PEAKERS 


J;;::j"::::IEXHIBITS (liMO VIES ljPLAYS 
~ONCERTS 




Democrats seek response 
ROME[AP]-Italy's Christian De­A message Thursday said the mocratic Party yesterday seemed to Red Brigades would kill Moro ifhis soften its no-deal stand with the party did not agree by 3 p.m. Red Brigade kidnappers of party Saturday to negotiate the terrorist 
president Aldo Moro. But inter­
demands. mediaries reported no contact with 
The Christian Democrats' line 
terrorist abdu-ctors more than 24 had been that the party cannot hours after a death deadline for 
bargain with the Brigades because 
Moro passed. 

to do so would amount to a betrayal
For the second day, hundreds of of democratic principles. 
Italians gathered in vigils outside Observers said Zaccagnini's ab­Moro's Rome apartment and in stention from restating that standfront of the Christian Democrats' cou~d mean the party no longer isdowntown headquarters, where shytng away from negotiations forleaders of the ruling party were Moro but may enter into talks if itmeeting. 
receives concrete proposals otherParty Secretary-General Benigno than a prisoner exchanlle. 
Zaccagnini sa.id afterward that Christian Democrats want to find The Moro family, ~hich had out through intermediaries "a re­
been reported upset over the tough 
ply to questions on the fate of no-bargaining line reaffirmed in a 
Aldo Moro and to ascertain ... 
party statement Friday night,possible ways to achieve his libera­termed Zaccagnini's new state­tion." 
ment "very positive."
Zaccagnini did not say the party But the Roman Catholic reliefrefuses to dt:al with the Red organization that had agreed to actBrigades urban guerrillas, its as an intermediary said yesterday it stance since th•~ gang seized the 61 had not heard from the kidnappers. 
year old former premier March 16. The abductors demand talks on 
"Unfortunately, we have noth­exchanging him for unspecified ing," said the Rev. George Huess­"communist prisoners." 
ler head of Caritas Internationalis. ''Yesterday we had some leads that turned out to be false. But
lnterviE~ws start 
today nothing. We are still expecting a call. There is no time limit to our availability."

for teaching jobs 
Representatives from Bibb County Public Schools in Macon, SG plans Georgia, will interview for teaching positions in all fields of secondary storage program education esp•ecially science and math on May 5. Interviews for for 0-C students elementary and special education positions will also be conducted. 
Off-Campus students who areSign-ups begin today in the Place­interested in establishing an 0-C ment Bureau. 
storage program are asked to sign up at the Student Government0-C task force Offices by tomorrow. 
Students should list their name, their phone number and theseeks ,~ositions amount to be stored (in volume based on round figures for each Applications a1re now being taken type of article). If there is sufficient 
for positions on an Off-Campus task response, a program will be force. Those interested can contact established. John Fitzpatrick at 232-4904 or If there is not enough student apply in the Student Government response, there will be information offices. available through the Student 
Government and the Student Union for students wishing to store things The Observer Ia published Mon­
on their own. 
dlly tttrougtl Fri~•Y except during 

~· ' 
·· Monday, April 24, 1978 
the observer 

• Carter's plan faces test 


Senate begins work on 1979 federal budget 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter's tax cut and anti-inflation plans face a test of strength in the Senate this week as lawmakers begin writing a federal budget for fiscal year 1979. 
Senators will have to decide whether the budget should make room for a rollback of Social Security taxes. which the Carter administration opposes; whether the president's proposed $24 bil­lion income tax cut should be scaled down, and whether federal spending should be reduced sub­stantially as a weapon against infla­tion. 
Sen. William Proxmire, D-WI, filed an amendment that would slash from $498.9 billion to $475 billion the spending target set by the Senate Budget Committee. The House Budget Committee has endorsed a budget calling for expenditures of $501.4 billion in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. 
And expelion.  Carter's budget calls nditures totaling $499.4  for bil­ 
SMC twins  

capture honors 
SOUTH BEND [AP)-Victoria Marie Ball might be getting a bit tired of being a runnerup -if she didn't think so highly of the competition. 
Miss Ball, a nursing student, is salutatorian of the 1978 graduating class at Saint Mary's College. She has a grade point average of 3.956_ on a 4.0 scale, a four-year perfor­mance marred by only one A-minus and one B. 
In the class of 427, only one student did better. And it was the same one who finished first to Miss Ball's second just four years ago at Bellevue, Ohio, Senior High School: her identical twin sister, Valerie Ann. 
"I was born second," Victoria explains, adding that the replay of high school is more amusing than frustrating. 
Valerie, also a nursing student whose one A-minus in four years left her with a 3.985 grade point average, will deliver the valedic­tory address at Sa~ary's 131st commencement"Mi"ll&y 20. 
Both 22-year old scholars credit teamwork rather than rivalry for their glittering academic records. 
"We push each other to do well," says Valerie. "It's really not competition as I know competi­tion. We challenge each other." She added that their parents, Dr. and Mrs. James B. Ball, don't push them academically, but "they push us just to use ou1r potential." 
The twins are following a family tradition in their studies. Their father is a physician and their mother is a nurse, while one brother studies medicine at Ohio State University and another is in pre-medicine on the neighboring University of Notre Dame campus. 
"I wanted to go into nursing since I was really small, but Val wasn't sold on it," Victoria recalls~ "But our mother enrolled us in candy-stripers just to get the feel of what a hospital is like. That won Valerie over." 
Both women are anxious to put thier training to work and plan to practice in hospitals after gradua­tion. After about a year, however, Valerie and Victoria plan to hit the books once again and begin grad­uate studies. 

Bike Club to select new officers 

There will be a Bike Club meeting tomorrow evening at 7 
p.m. in the Rathskellar. A, new president for the upcoming year will be elected. All interested students are invited to attend. 


Campaign begins 
by Andy Segovia 

Candidates in hopes of gaining the title of Ugliest Man on Campus (UMOC) are currently collecting pennies. The yearly An Tostal event is sponsored by the Alpha Phi Omega Chapter of Notre Dame. 
"The purpose of UMOC is to raise funds for charity and at the same time provide a fun filled campus wide activity," said Mark Hutton, this year's UMOC chair­man. 
UMOC was initiated in 1974 and the first year's earnings went to Muscular Dystrophy and Logan Center. Since then the proceeds have gone to Sr. Marita's Primary School in South Bend. 
"Last year UMOC provided $1,500 for the school," Hutton replied. We hope to significantly surpass that amount this year." 
"The race is open to anyone," Hutton replied. We hope to significantly surpass that amount this year." 
"The race is open to anyone,' Hutton commented. "Last year we had over 500 people on the final ballot." 
According to Hutton, this year's front runners include Andrew Danik and Orest Deychakiwisky. 
dates are Kelly Tri­pucka and Murray of Murray's Massage Parlor," Hutton stated. 
Past winners of the prestigious title include Mike Sazdonoff, the 1974 and 1975 Ugly Man, and Beppo Guido, who captured the crown in the last two years. 
Votes costing a penny a piece, will be taken at the dining halls today through Friday, at the An Tostal picnic, and at the Irish Wake. 
"The final count and announce­ment oftlhe winner will occur at the Irish Wake Saturday night," Hut­ton stated. 


ROCCO'S 
BARBERS 

hairstylists 

531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

next year. 
such as House and Senate majority and minority leaders, receive slightly higher compensation. 
The House Ways and Means Committee plans to take time out today from writing a tax bill to hear from a panel of economists on just what size tax cut is needed. 
The committee is facing several options as it works on the tax plan proposed by Carter, which would cut individual and business taxes in order to sustain this year's ecopo-
None of this week's votes on spending targets for fiscal 1979 will be binding; they will only register the sentiment of the Senate on the key issues. Biils to carry out specific programs involving gov­ernment expenditures must be considered later. 
While the Senate concentrates on the budget, the House will consider a code of ethics for the legislative, judicial and executive branches of government, including income disclosure requirements. 
A central question on the legisla­tion is whether a proposed rule that would limit House members' out­side earned income to $8,625 a year should be killed before it goes into effect. Unless the House acts, the limitation will become effective next Jan. 1. It would apply to such outside income as speaking fees. 
Members of the House and Senate get salaries of $57,500 a year. Those in leadership posts, 
mic growth but take away some deductions in the name of simplifi­1 cation and equity. The net result of the Carter package would be a $24 
billion cut. 
The committee has to decide 
whether that figure is about right, 
whether it is so high that it risks 
more inflation, and whether it 
would be wiser to use some of the 
money to roll back Social Security 
tax increases scheduled to take 
effect next January. 



Fuller 
announces Dome 
Editorial Board 
Bill Fuller, Editor of the 1979 Dome, has announced the selection of his Editorial Board, a group which he calls, "a wild and crazy kind of staff." 
Assuming the position of Manag­ing Editor is junion Mark Amenta. Amenta has previously served as Art Editor and Student Life Editor for the yearbook. 
Ed Burke will be the Photogra­phy Editor after serving on the photography staff for the last two years. 
The position of Business Mana­ger will be filled by Aren Broderick, a junior marketing major. 
The new section editors of the Dome are: Joyce Ravnikar, AI 
Dreyer,  Linda  Kenney,  Meg  
Hackett,  Bill  Elliot,  and  Jana  
Schutt.  



BRIGADE plays in the BEER PEN 



TUESDAY 25 APRIL 
Student Union Cultural Arts Commission 
announces 


Please leave name and nurmer with Student Union 2nd floor l.afor1une. You will be 

the observer Monday, April 24, 
Begin travels to US for talks with Carter 
(APf Prime Minister Menachem Begin uext week will make his fourth trip to Washington in 10 months for talks with President Carter aimed at ending the Middle East impasse, a spokesman for the Israeli leader said yesterday. 
In Egypt, meanwhile, U.S. me­diator Alfred L. Atherton met with President Anwar Sadat at the Red Sea resort of Hurghada and said afterward the 2 and a half hour discussion was "very, very good." 
He said he was 'confident that ways can be found to begin again to move the peace process forward" and that Sadat asked him to convey 
a "personal messge" to Carter. Its contents were not made public. 
Begin, whose talks with Carter last month led to new friction in U.S.-Israeli relations, received an invitation to further discussions at the White House through the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv, his spokes man Dan Partir said. He said no date was immediately set for the summit. 
Begin already had been schedul­ed to visit New York next Monday, May 1, to kickoff the U.S. Jewish 
McLean to speak on disarmament 
Capt. William 0. McLean, 
U.S.N. (ret), will speak on "Dis­armament: Will SALT Succeed?" tonight at 8 p.m. at the Morris Inn. Presented under the auspices of the United Nations Association, the lecture is open to the public without charge. 
Currently Assistant of the Notre Dame· Law School, Capt. McLean was a member of the U.S. Delega­tion in Strategic Arms Limitations Talks (SAL1) with the Soviet 
Union from  1969  to  1972,  which  
culminated  in  the  disarmament  
agreements  now  in  effect.  A  

specialist in strategic weaponry, Admiralty and International Law and in Naval Affairs, Capt. McLean is the recipient of two U.S. Navy Legion of Merit awards, and has authored numerous publications on military matters. 
Prior to his 1975 Law School appointment, Capt. McLean was professor of Naval Science and Commanding Officer of the NROTC at Notre Dame. During his 32 years as a U.S. Naval Officer, he served as an experimental aircraft test pilot and also was Director of the Analysis Joint Task Force which studies U.S. military cap­abilities for offense and defense. 
Capt. McLean holds academic degrees from Notre Dame, George Washington and New Mexico Uni­versities, and attended the Illinois Institute of Technology, Greenville College and the U.S. Naval War College. He is a member of various education and military organiza­tions. 
McDermott needs Carnival workers 
McDermott Amusement Co. needs workers to help in assembl­ing the An Tostal's Carnival's rides and booths. Workers will be paid b by the hour in cash. 
Next Tuesday workers are need­ed for four to eight hours with some work also available in disassembl­ing the carnival Sunday evening. 
The first 12 people to call Mike Duffy at 1555 will get the spots. 
Dallas school interviews at ND 
The Dallas Independent School District will interview prospective teachers on May '9 at the Placement Bureau. In addition to math and science teachers, interviews will be open to candidates in secondary English, reading and elementary education. Interview times arc still available. 
All who interview will be required to take two tests on May 
9. Applications and instructions are available at the Placement Bureau. 
commumty·s celebrations of· the 30th annual anniversary of Israeli nationhood. 
Pattir said the prime minister intended to stay about one week. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan will precede Begin to the United States, holding two days of talks this week with Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance. 
The two-pronged consultations in Washington and Atherton's mediation effort in Egypt signal the renewal of intense U.S. diplomacy in the Mideast after a lull of more than a month caused by Israel's invasion of southern Lebanon and 
by the foreign travels of Carter and 
Vance. 
'.·~-:·.~.·:.·.•i~t-~.;1}.

In his last visit to Washington, Begin resisted· U.S. pressure to 
..........P'1... 



:~.;J

declare Israel's readiness to even­.,..;,..•· tually relinquish part of the occu­
On Saturday, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded held a picnic for the Loganpied West Bank of the Jordan Center kids at the Holy Cross grounds on the shore of Saint Mary's Lake. [Photo by Mark Muench] 
River, seized from Jordan in the 1967 Mideast War. Since then, however, the Israeli government may have softened its 

Haley recieves Danforth award 
line. The Cabinet issued a state­Michael J. Haley, a Notre Dame Winners of the Fellowship success in graduate school, intel­ment saying it was prepared to senior, has been awarded a Dan-receive tuition, fees and an annual lectual ability and other criteria. 
negotiate peace with Jordan on the forth Graduate Fellowship for stipend for up to four years of study Since 1952 the St. Louis-based basis of U.N. Security Council advanced study for the Ph.D. in. preparation for a career of Danforth Foundation has awarded Resolution 242, which calls for degree. Haley, of Cherry Hills, NJ, college teaching. They are selected more than 2500 graduate fellow­withdrawal from territories cap­was one of 100 selected from a on evidence of personal character-ships. More than 95 per cent of tured in 1967 and for the establish­group of more than 3000 appli-istics contributing to effective these students have received the ment of secure and recognized cants, and he will do graduate teaching, evidence of motivation, doctoral degree and 85 per cent areboundaries. 
study at Stanford University. discipline and purpose required for engaged in higher education. 

WARNER BROS. DISCREET PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
Now Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Indiana Representaltive john Brademas was an inter4ested observer at the Strauss Gala, helld fl"iday 
night at the Lafortune Bal!room. [Photo by Mark Muench] 
$650 IPER MONT.H WHILE STILL IN COLLEGE 
Plus a unique employment opportunity in Nuclear Engineering after graduation. 
Applicants m1ust be male iuniors or senio1rs with a B average i1n at least 1 year of Calculus, and 1 year of Clas!;ical Alysics courses a,nd 1e1 u:s. citizen -age ::zs or under -in good health. 
And out more about this scholarslllip employ­ment program by visiting your Officer c:onsul­tant at the NI~TC Unit. On Campus AJniil 24. Steve Boaz Naval N-.Jtdear Engineering Consulta1nt Bldg. 41 
NIAS Glen view, 1,1. 
Collect (312) 657-2169 

DiUon,Grac:e to 
wage! battle jfor 
fla1g today' 

Dillon and Grace Hallls will wage a "capture the flag" !battle today from 5:30-7:30 p.m. between the circle and the Administration Buifding. All participants should meet in front of the Law school at 
5:30 when the rules will! be explain­ed by An Tostal Chairman John Rooney. 
According to Many Paulson, leader of the · Dillon Liberation Army, "tht~ battle is for campus supremacy." The honor system will be used throughout the con­test. ''Hopt~fully, this will become an An Tostal tradition," Paulson added. 
Jim O'Hare, the Grace mentor, noted, "The aim is to dispell all controversy stemming from last semester's conflicts." 
Participants from other halls will be acceptt~d and should wear appropriate colors; red for the "Dillon Libt~ration Army" and light colors for the "Grace Mercen­aries.'·' 
Students should contact John Rooney for questions about rules, and Jim O'Hare or Marty Paulson for questions concerning strategy. 


Mr. Goodbar search 
The An Tostal Looking For Mr. Goodbar Contest begins today. If you're a cool, cunning, adventurous sleuth, this event is for you. 
The object of the contest is to find a Mr. Goodbar candy wrapper hidden somewhere on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus. If you find the wrapper, submit your name and the location of the Mr. Goodbar to the Ombudsman. One name will be drawn from all correct entries submitted and the winner of the drawing will receive dinner for two. 
To aid you in your search, one clue will be printed every day this week in The Observer. Here's the first clue: It is NeD's ninths. 

Irish wake 
This year's Irish Wake, traditionally the longest-standing and best-known An Tostal event, promises to be more in line with the true "Spirit" of an Irish wake. The Wake will be held at Stepan Center on Saturday at 9 p.m. and will feature the band "Unity" with special guests "The Irish Brigade." 
Tickets for the Irish Wake are priced at $2 and go on sale today at all the dining halls. They will also be abailable at the Student Union ticket office and at the door. Free munchies, including bread, cheese, pretzels, chips, and soft drinks, will be provided. 
The Irish Wake will feature special lighting effects on the dance floor plus the naming of the winner of that dubious title The Ugliest Man on Campus. 

Earth ball soccer 
Do you yearn for the spring riots and other mass conflicts 
common to college life of the '60s? If you do, An Tostal has the 
event for you in Earth Ball Soccer. 
In this mass conflict, residents of North Quad will do battle with 
the forces from South Quad in attempting to push a huge (six feet in 
diameter) Earth Ballthrough the opposition's goal. 
This civilized riot is scheduled to erupt on the field behind Stepan 
Center at 4:15p.m. on Sunny Saturday, just after the women's flag 
football finals. All are welcome. 

An Tostal daisies 
For that special person you've been admiring ... send him or her An Tostal daisies! They're on sale in all the dining halls now through Wednesday. They'll be delivered to both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Priced at only $1 a bunch, they're guaranteed to win hearts! 

Pie assassin service 
Starting today, An Tostal provides you with the perfect remedy to 
academic blues, roommate hassles, and romantic frustrations with 
its illustrious Pie in the Eye Service. 
For the nominal fee of S1, you can contract the An Tostal 
Assassins to obliterate, with a whipped cream pie provided by Saga 
Food Services, the target of your choice. Just call Bill at 1074 or 
Mark at 1050 twenty-four hours before the hit is to occur, and leave 
the dirty work to the assissins. 
Pie in the Eye will continue through Sunny Saturday. 

Decathlon 
Hey, all you jocks, registration for the An Tostal Decathlon, the 
true test of the well-rounded Notre Dame athlete, ends tomorrow at 
midnight! 
The Decathlon will consist of ten events designed to fully test 
strength, skill, and speed. Five events will be held on Frivolous 
Friday and five will be on Sunny Saturday. 
If you think you're athletic enough, call Ted Howard at 3209 or 
3211 to sign up. 

Chariot race 
The field for the An Tostal Ben Hur Chariot Race will be limited to 20 teams. Pre~registration is required. To sign up, call John Callaway at 8791 or Chris Digan at 8850. 

Halftime games 
An Tostal invites you to return to your childhood (if you ever left it). Join the wheelbarrow races--yes, just like kindergarten. Find a partner and sign up by calling Meegan McCready at 4-1-4346. The races will be held during halftime of the football game on Sunny Saturday. 

Road run 
An Tostal presents the first event designed for joggers--the First 
Annual An Tostal Road Run. 
The Road Run will be a three-mile run open to any jogger or 
runner regardless of ability. It will begin on the road in front of 
Stepan Center at 10:30 a.m. on Sunny Saturday and will follow a 
course around the lakes, ending at the south end of North Quad. 
There will be t-shirts for top placers and ribbons for all finishers. 
Ifyou have any questions or wish to pre-register, call Pat Sullivan 
at 3455. 
1 
I 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
UM.. YtAH, ro HELLO, 71115 JfJST1./Ke w 
~SURE, 
IS Mti.f.{)(,(J 54Y, 1.//<E•. (JM, 
MAN. I KNOW HOTUNE! Y'KNO/JJ, UK/3, 
JUST fAJHERE {.(Jf{CR&'s Y'KNOfAJ, I'M, 
'tVli'RE C@f­YOUR 1/E:A/J UK£, Y'kNOIAl_ 
/N(j FROM. AT?"'­UM•. Y'!<NOfAJ? 
\
I 


FOR. SU~! you~ HAVIN6 YOU SURE HEY, I A H£AO 7RIP. 6/Vl3600[) WIWTe 'tVli'RE IN 7HI5 Met.LOW, 7He [J(X)K, Wt/RIJ SPACE. OAN. f)!CJN'T I? 
I
I
\ 



~P.O.BOXQ~ 
Clarification 
Editor's Note: This letter was sent to the Editorial Staff of the Chicago Tribune Magazine. It concerns an article printed on April 23: "The Belles of Saint Mary's." 
To whom It may concern: 
I was initially flattered to have 
been interviewed for an article, 
according to Carol Felsenthal, 
"about the value of an education at 
a single-sex institution as compar­
ed to a recently turned co-ed 
institution such as Princeton, Yale 
or Notre Dame." 
Howe\'er, upon reading ''The 
Belles of Saint Mary's" of April 23, 
1978, I was shocked at the connota­
tions of the '·quotes attributed to 
me. I realized now that the 
reporter was looking for "evi­
dence'' to support her own per­
spective and accordingly chose 
certain of my comments totally out 
of context. 
I am a frank person, and in the 
course of the forty-five minute 
interview I said both positive and 
negative things about my Notre 
Dame experience. My criticisms, I 
feel. were twisted for the purposes 
of "sensational journalism." Only 
certain p.trts of the complex feel­
ings and insights which I hold (and 
expressed) have been exploited to 
support the author's thesis. 
Those who know me will perceive 
this fact. For those who do not, and 
for the benefit· of the Chicago 
Tribune readers, I will clarify a few 
of the blatant errors. 
I l ''So far the only extra-curricu­
lar honor she has won at Notre 
Dame is the dubious one of being 
the first woman candidate to make 
it as far as the runoffs.'' 
As stated to the reporter, I have also been involved as hall president and in such activities as the Sophemore Literary Festival, Mardi Gras and our hall newspaper during my first three years at Notre Dame. By Felsenthal's incorrect statement. it seems that she wanted a case for the woman who was involved in her all-girl high school but was forced out of activities in a male-dominated Uni­versity. As you can see, mine is not such a case. In fact, I distinctly recall myself saying something similar to "Notre Dame has been good to me (Since the writing of 
!his article I have been elected Judicial Coordinator.)--but I see a lot of potential being wasted." 
2) I did mention that I have had only three ·women professors. 
Although I find this a lamentable situation, I cannot, and did not, 'say that it is my "main complaint about life among the Fighting Irish." 
3) The quotes of my reaction to the Student Body election results were arbitrarily chosen out of a series of speculation on my part. When pressed for my analysis of why we (Mike Schlageter, Presi­dential candidate and I formed a ticket) failed to garner more women's votes, I contemplated many possible (and more probable) reasons, including the well-quali­fied opposition and our relative inexperience in campus-wide poli­tics. 
Although I was surprised and a 
bit hurt by comments made by a 
few Notre Dame women, I did not 
find them "barely tolerable." 
Everyone is entitled to their opi­
nion. 

And mine is that this article is an 
unfair representation of what I was 
trying to express. 

Sincerely, Jayne Rizzo 

Quality not quotas 
Dear Editor. 

My letter is in response to the letter congratulating the class of '81 on its having a female presiden­tial contender. I am a predomi­nately male student here and I assure you the gender of the candidates had absolutely no influ­ence on my voting . (I voted for the Abowd ticket in the run off, butpleasedon't congratulate me.) Why should that fact a female ran for president warrant a letter? I believe it is because people are overly concerned with positions being filled by x number women, y number minorities and z number south paws. Why can't they be more concerned with the number of qualified people who get positions? 
Obviously, only one female can­didate ran for president because only one woman took the initiative to try for that position. There was no male figure suppressing any coed from running. Simply the people who were interested ran, hopefully with no qualms about their sex, race or shoe size. (Though I did notice some tickets had a male and female from each quad. Naughty! Naughty!) 
Laws demanding quotas are unfair to all the people who apply for a job. Why can't the best person for the iob get it? Why 




Wall Street Madness 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art bu c hwaI d 
'WASHINGTON -There is a certain insanity going on in the country at this moment which cannot be diagnosed by any doctor. 
Ifyou don't believe me, take a look at what happened on Wall Street last Friday. All week long we saw and heard nothing but bad news about the economy, inflation, the national deficit, the fall of the dollar, etc., etc. 
Then on Friday, Wall Street went ape, traded 52 million shares of stock in one day, and the market went through the roof. It was hard to believe that the men and women who drove up the Dow Jones by 20 points were watching the same economic news as the rest of the country. 
As soon as 1heard about it I called a friend on Wall Street to find out what was going on. 
He sounded ve:ry giddy on the phone. "They're buying," he cried. "They're buying every­thing. Zip a dee dooda!" 
"I know that," i said. "But why are they buying?" 
"You know Thompson, who man­ages all of Glutton Insurance Co.'s investment portfolio?" 
"No, I don't know him," I said. 
"He started it. He'd been sitting on$2 billion worth of cash, and not doing a damn thing with it. Well, he went to the health club on Friday morning and suddenly star­ted screaming, 'I can't take it any longer. I've got to buy something.' Then he went running down Wall Street in the nude yelling, Buy! Buy! Buy! I'm going to buy everything." 
"Did they lock him up?" "Lock him up? l should say not. tveryoody started taking off their clothes, too. They figured Thomp­son knew something they didn't. 
"Pretty soon we were all dancing in the street. 'lfhe big guys from the mutual funds, the pension trusts and the banks were running around naked screaming at their brokers to buy any stock they could 

an independent newspaper serving the notre dame and saint mary's community 
Box Q 
Notre Dame Ind. 46556 
The Observe1r is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is enc;ouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive ,Editor Barb Langhenry Executive/Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cory Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports E9itor Bryan Gruley Features 1 Editor 
Monday, April 24, 1978 
must percentage of the population be taken into account? (Should 49 percent of the Rockettes be male?) This is America, land of equal opportunity not equal result!) 
I am withholding my nan1e, not because I am afraid of reprisal (which I am) but because my friends are convinced I'm illiterate. 
Name withheld by request 
Ollie lives 
Dear Edltor, 
I am flattered and, at the same time, deeply appreciative of the thoughtfulness and compliments expressed in this column by "The .iuniper Gate Gang." Over the years I have developed an abiding friendship with them and I shall miss them deady in the days ahead. I am grateful, too, that I am still able to serve the great Notre Dame family in whatever capacity that may be -in this case, my recent assignment to the Main Gate. I hope our paths again may cross, even if only occasionally. In the meantime, many thanks and happy returns to the "Juniper Gate Gang." 
OWe Joseph Security 
Apo~ogy 

Dear ~itor, Concerning m)> article in last Thursday's Observer on "Come 
{){}/<£, JHER£'5 NO twlYWE'RE 60NNA GIJT ANY OF 'TIIE5& KJOS! 7HE BESTa= 
7liEM /A/IlL. 8£ AU. 
• 60NG BY ROUN/J 
' S&V£N. 
7cU.. MtABOfJT I JIJSTOOIITS/3E IT. 7HI5 IS THG. HOW HE (j(ff THIRD YEAR. I'VE WfTH TH/(T "TilE HAO 7D Jl/NI< FfiTlf?E IS NoaJ" MY SCOIJ71Ne 6ARB.46E As 
REPO!<TS/ LON6 AsHe 010!
' 

Blow Your Horn'', the current . Student Players production, I would like to correct a misquote which I am sure caused some trouble. The article was printed saying that Lou Spisto, one of the co-founders of Student Players, said that Student Players is the get their hands on. Panic broke out, and money managers, wno were playing gin rummy for a penny· a point, were throwing orders J for millions of dollars out 
'.. 
their windows. The brokers got on 
their phones to the little guys and 
told them the big guys were 
buying. That's all the little guys 
had to hear, and they started 
buying, too. I've never seen 
anything like it." 
"You mean to say because one 
person went nuts in a steam room 
the entire financial community 
went berserk?" 
"Right. We always knew that 's 
all it would take. If we could just 
get one of the big guys to go off his 
wagon, everyone else would follow 
suit. Nobody likes to be left behind 
on Wall Street when someone takes 
his clothes off and starts buying 
stocks. When the word got out that 
Thompson of Glutton Insurance' 
had lost his marbles it started an 
avalanche of business tha likes of 
which none of us has ever seen." 
"Where is Thompson now?" I 
said. 
"Someone threw a blanket around 
him so he wouldn't catch a cold." 
"But doesn't anyone up there 
know what's going on in Washing­
ton now?" 
"We don't care what's going on in Washington. We were desperate 
for action. An investor can't sit on 
billions of dollars forever -some­
thing has to give. If it hadn't been 
Thompson, it would have been 
somebody else. Everyone was 
cracking up from the boredom, but 
Thompson was the first one to 
completely flip." 
"What's all that noise I hear in 
the background?" 
"Merrill Lynch has just unleashed 
a thundering herd of cattle on Wall 
Street, and they're goring everyone 
in sight." 
"Why did they do that?" 
"Because Merrill Lynch is bullish 
on America again." 
"It all seems too good to be true," 
I said. 
"What happens when Thompson 
souers up and decides he wants 
Glutton Insurance out of the Stock 
Market again?" "Don't ask." 
(c)1978, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
THAT's R16HT. A POX ON OUR 7DP lJRAFT 6§01?6£ AL/EJ! CHOIC/35 HAVE NO IAKJVIJ&R. 7HG. 8E£N LON6 T/IIE{Tl.E55 70AO SINe& 7RAlJ£D 80f..."Te0 7DUJN 
AWAY.. WHEN HE 010.' 
' 
I GUESS 813-YeAH, W61../.., CAUse NOBOOY 7HIN65ARE 
cl'X HERE 60/N6 70 UN0£?5TDOO CHAN6EA­RJeTR.Y. WNOHCRE/ 
only theatrical group at Notre Dame opened to totally ncl.ice actors. Spisto assures me that there are other outlets for novices such as directing finals and ND-­SMC theatre productions. 
Florenceanne Strlgle 

--------~------------­

Snake juice and propaganda 
Nowhere Else But Taiwan 


barb breitenstein 

Editor's note: The author Is the former ·through the most picturesque countryside Executive News Editor of The Observer, scene. and was one of twelve coUg~ newspaper The mountains, which make up almost 
editors from all over the United States half the island, running from Taipei in the chosen to visit the RepubUc of China on north to Kaohsiung in the south, are mostly Taiwan for ten days during spring break. uninhabited, except for a few farming 
villages, tourist resorts, and a very few 
Night doesn't change Taipei much, aborigines. The foliage is jungle-like and except that the prostitutes are more visible · so is the wildlife. Giant broadleaf vines and the Christmas-like red, blue, and cover mountainsides thickly wooded with yellow lights that line tall office buildings bamboo, fir trees, and bushes. Jungle and advertise wares in Chinese characters birds (just like the ones in the movies) glare against the black sky. Tiny, indivi­scream in the trees above rushing streams dually-owned shops, most no bigger than that carry rainwater down steep rocky 
garages, are crowded together and in grades into the wide, shallow lowland places stacke~ on top of each other as high rivers. as four stones. They stay open until Taiwan is small, about the size of midnight or later, selling racks of cheap Massachusetts and Connecticut combined, clothes, teak ornaments, Chinese and crowded with almost 17 million people with pirated American books, marble statu­a per capita income of about $900 (U.S. ettes, "exotic" foods, cheap rice wines, dollars) per year. It is over 10,000 miles live chickens and wombats. away, the "temporary" home of the Republic of China ("Free China"), which 
The bars close at midnight, and those includes not only the island of Taiwan and who don't yet want to go home can shop or offshore islands, but the entire 4.4 million wander on the streets all night, relatively square miles of mainland China as well, 
safe, except from taxis that are always according to the government. readily available and always dangerous to The government of the R.O.C. is pedestrians. anti-Communist, democratic (they hold 
elections even when there is only one 
If you wander down into the inner city of candidate, like this year when the late 
Taipei at night, you might fiind Snake President Chiang Kai-shek's son, Chiang 
Alley. Closed off to traffic, the several Ching-kuo, ran unopposed for President), 
block area is crowded with people. Young and believes they will recover the main­children play in the streets until early in land, as state policy. They also consider the morning. The same, tiny open-air themselves :in a state of war, which shops sell all kinds of foods--from pungent necessitates that all young men must serve fishes to ox tongue, and the ever-present two years in the armed forces, necessitates rice--many with tables set up in the street armed guards at all railroad tunnels, and some with garbage piled on the curb. bridges, and some street corners in the 
Other shops sell varieties of snakes-­city, necessitates limiting newspapers to alive, packed in jars, or stripped alive while twelve pages per day, and necessitates 
Military on Quemoy prepare to release balloons. [Photo by Barb Breitenstein] 
you watch--and snake blood which, when government "prohibitions or restrictions in consumed, has an uncanny effect on your the publishing of political, military, or sexual potential, as dealers a1:e quick to diplomatic secrets, , or items considered demonstrate with a male orangutan. On detrimental to law and order in a local the side-alleys, prostitutes wait in red­community, ~ccording to the Publication lighted, open-fronted shacks to accomo­Law, '1 includmg "Communist propagan­date those who have indulged in the snake da." Anythiing that has to do with the juices. Communist Chinese, except for anti­
The daytime in Taipei is the ::-arne--busy. Communist literature, is prohibited for • Stores open early, traffic is congested and those who cannot decipher propaganda for wild and the sky is a deep gray from the themselves, that is, only for college smoke Taipei's industry pours into the air. students and government officials. The lights are off, but barbershop poles One of the most absurd places in the with red-white-and-blue swirls spin outside Republic of China is Quemoy, R.O.C.­
an 

the shops. Huge circular floral arrange­controlled island and military installation, ments on wooden frames stand outside, where on odd-numbered days they welcoming new businesses to the city. And exchange propaganda shells with Commu­strings of popping firecrackers announce nists only 2310 meters away (last year only weddings or the election of the new two civilians were killed by misdirected President. shells); where soldiers in red flightsuits 
In the countryside, life is more tradi­release hundreds of white propaganda­tional. The decreasing population of bearing balloons to float over to the farmers still draws water from bamboo­mainland; where miles of underground thatch wells, still lead water buffalo-drawn tunnels house troops and can accomodate carts of produce into town, still plant rice the 60,000 civilian residents for one full by hand in watery fields, and still wear year in case of attack; and where the white-hooded robes and march through generals get visitors drunk on 130-proof town to hillside cemeteries for funerals. kau liang (sorghum) wine at lunch as a But there are increasing numbers of matter of course ("The best guest is the motorcycles (the most popular from of one we have to carry back to the plane. The transportation in Taiwan), more televi­worst guest is the one that walks back to sions. more paved roads, more evenly the plane by himself." they say). Quemoy distributed factories, and more evenly is also where anti-Communist propaganda distributed pollution. Powerlines pass is shouted over loudspeakers in Commu-Taipei shops. [Photo by Barb Breitenstein.] 

nist-held land shout Communist propagan­ably rich and diverse. Wine, clothes, da right back. It's all very audible but marble, teak, pottery--all are cheap, and neither voice (on tape) can really be there is even a good beer, appropriately understood from the opposite side, be­called Taiwan Beer. tween the echoes and volume, and, at least But Taiwan is an ugly place in some on the Quemoy side, there's no one around ways--the cities are over-crowded. the to hear it anyway. But the military actually people are usually either very poor or very believes these methods are effective, or at rich, the country is industrializing rapidly least they say so. and so is fighting horrendous pollution 
Quemoy is the closest point to the problems and fighting Western influences. mainland controlled by the R.O.C. (you can The government still restricts many of the see the mainland from there and can even rights we take for granted in the United see the loudspeaker station on the other States, overlooks many problems, and side, 2500 yards away), and yet only engages in much evasion, double-talk, and special guests are allowed to go there, via a open censorship. The education system C-119 military transport flying 300 yards forces students to major in particular off the water to avoid Communist radar and subjects as if what they might want is not escorted by R.O.C. fighter planes. Very available. The traffic (and domestic air 
-
few of the civilians of Taiwan, who are flights) are frightening. taught that the mainland is their real home But where else can you walk through a and that their goal is to help their crowded train station or airport and never government free the people there from get bumped against; or watch cars and Communist control, ever visit Quemoy or buses constantly cut in front of each other see that homeland. at every intersection and only once in ten 
As striking as Quemoy, in a different days see a slight accident; or find signs way, is Taroko Gorge and the East-West asking "Please don't smoking in the bed!" Highway, in the center of the island. The in hotels; or see rows of school children in gorge is sheer walls of granite and marble matching khaki uniforms and yellow or only a few hundred feet apart at one point, orange rain hats and coats marching down separated by a river. The highway, which the street, held in line by a supervisor winds through the gorge, was carved right woman on a motorcycle; or stand beneath out of the stone walls. In other places, the an eight-story-high Buddha that's really a river widens and tree-covered mountains museum inside; or read an editorial which rise above, nestling red-roofed pagodas discusses the tourism potential of prostitu­and sprouting narrow waterfalls. tion; or visit with eleven other American 
Taiwan is a beautiful place in some college newspaper editors as the guest of ways--the people are extremely friendly, the R.O.C. and be openly used for the land is lush and breathtaking, the propaganda purposes; or get loaded on coastal ocean air is fresh and peaceful in sorghum wine with a bunch of generals; or the east, the Chinese culture is delicate, happen onto Snake Alley late at night in generous and polite, the food is unbeliev-Taipei? 
A footbridge crossing. [Photo by Barb Breitenstein] 

------·~--~--.---------;;-~­
I .'. 


f 
( 


Photos by Birds David Rumbach 
Six Notft Dame students participated In the Geoeral Program's annual bird walk last Saturday morning. The hike Is named after the late Willis D. Nutting, a founder of the General Program at Notre Dame. 
Saturday's walk was led by General Program professors Unda Ferguson and Phillip Sloan. uwe were reasonably seccessfu. The cold weather kept us from &eelng some birds seen In other years," Sloan stated. The Willis D. Nutting Bird Walk Is a function of the

-Natural Science component of the General Program. 
l 




Sophomore  Maureen  Dempsey  and  Junior  Bryan  morning.  Sloan  tea£hes  Natural  Science  and  other  
Kenny help  Dr.  Phillip  Sloan  Identify  a  feathered  courses In the General Program.  
specimen  near  St.  Joseph's  l.ake  early  Saturday  Dr. Phillip Sloan, a professor In the General Program, led  
the 1978 WIUis D. Nutting Bird Walk.  

Monday, April 24, 1978 
the observer 



Reorganization project falls behind 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -President Carter's campaign to reorganize the federal government is falling behind schedule and will undergo a top-level shake-out this week, ad­minstration officials say. 
No personnel shifts are antici­pated, but some reorganization projects are likely to be shelved and the whole effort will get a mor business-oriented focus, the official said. 
Government officials working on the reorganization project said ina series of interviews last week that important initiatives have been delayed and the effort has begun to thrash about without clear direc­tion. 
Reasons offered for the delays include poor organization, sluggish action by Congress, opposition by Cabinet officials to losing any of their authority, and a tendency to distrust and repeat previous reor­ganization studies. 
It was also apparent from the interviews that staff morale is beginning to suffer, although it received a boost last week from President Carter's efforts to end infighting in his Cabinet and his personal lobbying for civil service revision, considered the crown jewel of the reorganization project. 
It also appeared that philosophi­cal conflicts are beginning to emerge between budget chief James Mcintyre and his top aide for reorganization, Harrison Well­ford. 
Mcintyre, a former Georgia state budget director, is asserting great­er personal control over the oper­ations of Wellford, who once was on of Ralph Nader's top aides. 
"We've slipped some on our dates on reorganization, there's no denying that,'' said Mcintyre, head of the Office of Management and Budget, the headquarters of the re-organization drive. 
Mcintyre said the reorganization effort has been spread too thinly, working on as many as 31 different studies at the same time. "In my opinion we cannot afford to go ahead with every study," he said. 
He said he plans to make changes this week, narrowing the focus of the reorganizers, down­grading and possibly eliminating some less important studies. 
He said he intends to place more emphasis on reducing paperwork and federal red tape and reducing regulatory burdens on business. 
Mcintyre's idea of regulatory reform differs from that of Welll­ford, who advocates reducing gov­ernmental restrictions on rate com­petition in such industries as trucking, airlines, shipping and communcations. 

"I think Jim's view will prevail," said one OMB staffer. 
Ifso the likely result will be more emphasis on such things as cutting the cost to businesses of pollution­control regulations and less on consumer-oriented initiatives. 
Shifting emphasis "doesn't mean we're going to give up on reorganizaton, '' Mcintyre said. "We're getting moving again. We had slowed down." He spoke of getting ''back on the track." 
Wellford doesn't fe~:l the project ever left the track, but says it is reaching a natural point in its evolution after 15 months of work. "It's all been leading up to this year where we narrow it down to what are goint to be the major legislative objectives of reorganiza­tion this term," he said in an interview. 
But some of his own staff members express a different view. 
"There's a certain amount of lack of communication," one staff member said. "The structural 

Vance reports 
SALT progress 
LONDON [API-U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance ended his Moscow arms control negotiations yesterday claiming "some progress on a weapons treaty and in U.S.­Soviet relations, but providing no details. 
He then flew here for talks with Western foreign ministers on pro­moting black rule in the South African-held territory of South­West Africa, also called Namibia. 
American officials with Vance hinted that the Soviets had eased their opposition to U.S. sharing of "cruise" missile technology with the NATO allies. 
But the Soviets were said to have remained adamant on deployment of their Backfire bomber. Most analysts say that unless their are limitations on the Backfire's pro-­duction and deployment, an arms agreement treaty might not clear the Senate. 
A third unresolved issue involves · 
U.S. efforts to block new Soviet intercontinental ballistic missile systems. 
~·•• • Dieting? Taking Vitamins? Concerned About Nutrition? 
A daily nutrition secret of noted O_lympic athletes is available to you 

Bee Pollen from Englandw 
Olympic Gold Medal Sprinter Steve Riddick: 
"They're fantastic' My recovery power after a hard sprint has im­proved at least 75%. I've made Bee Pollen from England a permanent part of my traming For years, many noted Olympi¢ athletes, who have to stay at the peak of fitness and good health, have made bee pollen a part of their daily train1ng secret. Why? llecause bee pollen is one o.f nature's most concentrated sources of a whole range of m1cro-nutnents which rnore and more do.ctors believe your body needs every day. Now a Brit1sh nutritionist has found a way to keep bee pollen fresh in tiny gol­den pods called Bee Pollen Frorn England'"' So now you, too, can use this natural food and make it a part of your daily nutrition routine. 

• 

Available at the health center of 
Mar-Main Phannac::y 426 N. Michigan and Geo!11etown 
Shopping Center 
changes that reorganization pro­mised are not taking place." 
Another aide said, "The reorga­nization project is kind of a zoo. You get a lot of naive proposals." 
Those two staff members, and others who agreed to talk candidly, did so only on the promise that they not be named. 
The record of reorganization so far is mixed. The administration claims credit for creating a new Department of Energy; for a reduc­tion in federal paperwork; for reorganizing and shrinking the president's own executive office, and for reshaping our overseas public relations operations into a new International Communications Agency. Only the claimed paper­work reduction affects the public directly. 
The presidnet directed executive branch agencies to use clear lan­guage in writing regulations, to give greater public notice of any new regulations they are consider­ing, and to consider the cost and impact of major proposals. Mcin­tyre said he will begin an effort to enforce this order as part of this week's planned shake-out. 
A reshuffle of civil-rights en­forcement activities seems likely to clear Congress next month, and the administration's package of civil service revisions has at least a fighting chance of passing without major modificatons this year. The administration, fulfilling a Carter campaign promise, has also en­dorsed a Senate bill to create a new Department of Education. 



Earthquake strikes 
Helena, Mont. [AP[ A moderate An earthquake of 4 on the earthquake and a substantioal af-Richter scale can cause moderate tershock shook much of western damage in the local area, five Montana yesterday. No casualties considerable damage, six severe or major damage were reported. damage. A seven reading is a 
Waverly Person, a geophysicist "major" earthquake, capable of at the National Earthquake Infor-widespread heavy damage; eight is mation Service in Golden, Colo., a "great"quake, capable of tre­said the quake hit at 4:26p.m., and mendous damage. was computed at 4.5 on the Richter The San Francisco earthquake of scale and was centered 30 miles 1906, which occurred before the northeast of Missoula. Richter scale was devised, has 
Person said a quake of that size been estimated at 8.3 on the probably would have caused only .,.R_k_h_t_e_.r_s_c_a_Ie_.________, 
minor damage, such as cracked plaster or broken windows. 
The jolt was felt in Helena, Great Falls, Missoula, Butte, Anaconda, Lincoln, and Ovando. 
The information service said the aftershock, 12 minutes after the quake, measured 3. 7 on the Richter scale. 
The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfold in­crease in magnitude. Thus a reading of 4.5 reflects an earth­quake ten times stronger than one 
of 3.5. 
J-Board 
meeting tonite 
There will be a mandatory meet­ing for all new hall Judicial Board chairmen tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
L----------------------' 






it!---' 

*Observer 
position 

FOR NEXT YEAR 
TO DELIVER PAPERS ,must be available 
Nlonday -Friday 10:15AM -1:OOPM 
call Steve Odland at 8661 or 1478 

by Mkhael Molinelli 
YOU ARE ABOUT TO ENT£R A WORLD WHfRE 



M~y, April 24, 1978 

10 the observer 


Korean airline passengers give their accountsofattac 

by Rob Powers Modern Spirituality (Theology yresentation and small discussion 238), covers topics including asce­groups. Short essays are assigned A three credit Theology course, ticism, prayer, discipline, sin, and weekly, and there is a midterm Modem Spirituality, will be taught faith. The class meets in the hall exam and a final paper. The course to 30 Morrissey residents tt.is fall on Sunday nights for two and fulfills three credits of the Univer­by their rector, Fr. Raymond Holtz. one-half hours, consisting of class sity's Theology requirements. According to Holtz, Modem Spirituality is successful as a hall course since it helps create "co­hesion" within the hall. "It is 
SUISIIIIE PIOIIOTIOIIS AIID valuable in my understanding and 
IIOTIE DAilE STIID£11 111101 rapport with the students and it PIESEIT allows them to share some ' valuable discussions.'' Holtz has been teaching the 
BOB 
course since he became rector of Morrisse\· in 1976. Fr. Prince, formerly. an assistant rector in 

SEGER

Morrissey, had previously taught a general course on Catholicism in 

AND THE 
the hall. "I saw the idea as valuable, and continued it," said 

SI.VER BW.ET BAND
Holtz. Last year, students in the course participated in a project admini­stered by the Committee for Hu­man Development testing their spiritual growth during the school year. The course rarely has openings for non-Morrissey students due to its popularity within the hall. Holtz added that the demand fur the class was parituclarly high this year, since it is open only to juniors and seniors, and 111 of Morrissey's 335 residents will be juniors next year. Fr. David Burrell, chairman of the Theology department, ex­pressed his approval of the course, stating that other hall rectors have held such classes in their halls. He stated, however, that he did not intend for the course to appear in the Preliminary Course Schedule, since it was not available to non-Morrissey residents when 

• Notre Dome A.C.L Box Offr<e • St. Jostph Bonk & Branches • hrst Bank-Main offi" only Sal. 9 to S • R1ver (tty Re<ords 
: ~~C:~~~t~ord in Elkhart
planning their schedules. 

• Student Union Ticket Offr<e • Boogre ~O<ords 
• Robertson's·S.B~ & Concord Moll •·Just for the Record • Racord Joint -Niles
The course is described in the Theology Department's course de­scription booklet as available only to Morrissey residents. 

!: 

HElSINKI, Finland [AP] -"8:43 
-A Soviet plane is shooting at the 
left wing. Two or three ladies are 
crying and one Japanese seriously 
wonded...and we are falling down, 
down, down." 
Cramped columns of Japanese characters filling a dozen pages of Mrs. Seiko Shiozake's small address book chronicle. the 90 minutes of fear and death aboard a KoreanAir Lines Boeing 707 after it was fired on Thursday l>y at least 
one Soviet jet. 
Her diary started as rounds tore through the left side of the fuse­lage, spreading shrapnel and kill­i.ug two passengers, and told of the pilot's desparate search for a landing. place before he put the craft down on a frozen lake in the northwestern Soviet Union. 
"Now the pilot says we are safe and we are preparing for landing," Mrs. Shiozake, of Kobe, Japan, recorded. "I feel like vomiting." 
"10:25-We are landing and we see a flame on the left wing. We have landed on snow beside a lake. The moonlight is very bright anf reflects on the snow...Captain Kim is applauded." 
"12:10-We see people, maybe soldiers, with guns and long coats and we don't know if they are Americans or Russians," Mrs. Shiozake's diary continued. 
·"Then we hear they are Russian and everybody is scared. 
"I see the sunrise." 

Her watch had been set to Pari time. The flight had originated i Paris and was bound for Seoul South Korea, via Alaska, bu wandered into Soviet airspace an was fired on by the Russians an forced to land. 
She and 102 other survivin passengers and crew from th ill-fated Boeing 707left Helsinki fo Seoul Sunday aboard a Korean Ai Lines relief plane. 
Her account and those of other emerged yesterday in a series o interviews as they arrived here. 
"At first the passengers mistoo the Soviet plane for an America fighter plane," said Jean-Claud Fory, a French businessman. "We'd been flying for hours an we thought we were over Ancho rage." 
One European passenger sai 
that after the 707 landed on th lake they waited two hours until they were found by the Sovie searchers. Helicopters arrived 3 minutes later and carried out the injured, women and children, and then the other passengers, he said. 
They were taken to a stadium, and then to a village where their passports and cameras were taken away from them. 
Greyhound Rx. The cure for college blahs. 


It's a feeling that slowly descends upon you. The exams, the pop tests, the required reading, the hours at the library, the thesis­they won't go· away. 
But you can. This weekend, take off, say hello to your friends, see the sights, have a great time. You'll arrive with money in your pocket because your Greyhound trip doesn't take that much out of it. 
If you're feeling tired, depressed and exhausted, grab a Greyhound and split. It's a sure cure for the blahs. 
Greyhound Service 

To  One-Way  Round-Trip  YouC.n .......  You Arrive  
CHICAGO  $8.15  $15.50  5:50pm  6:55pm  
MILWAUKEE  $13.55  $25.75  10:20 am  1:15pm  
DETROIT  $17.15  $32.60  11:35 am  4:55pm  
CLEVELAND  $22.115  $41.90  10:1111 am  4:30pm  
TOLEDO  $13.40  $25.50  7:15am  10:55 am  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
(Pnces subject to change.) 

Greyhound Agent Address Phone 
'~. 
GO 6REYIIOIIIJ 

---------------------~ --~~~~ ---~r-


Monday, April 24, 1978 the obserur 11 
Prison(;r exchange begins 
Johaanesbaq,Soutb Afrlca [AP([ An Israeli held 19 months in a Mozambique prison walked across the border yesterday into Swazi­land and into his wife's arms--the first release in a complex, multina­tional prisoner swap, authorities said. 
Rep. 'Benjamin Gilman,. a Republican from New York, helped 
arrange the release.  He said the  
freed Israeli, Miron  Marcus, and  
student  Alan  Van  Norman  of  

Windom, Minn., imprisoned in East Germany, will be swapped for 
a convicted East German spy. 
That spy, Robert G. Thompson, is being held in a federal prison in Lewisburg, Pa., and is due to be paroled shortly. 
Marcus, 24, whose light plane was fired upon in an emergency landing on a Rhodesia-South Mrica flight September 1976, was being kept yesterday in the international transit lounge of Jan Smuts Airport here by authorities until issuance of a new passport. He was not permitted to speak with reporters. 
"I'm so relieved and happy he's 

Russian jet attacks unsuspecting airliner 
[cont~nued from page 1] could not believe he was so far off course. The plane, flying a polar route, had veered south before it reached the North Pole. · Passengers said eventually a small jet appeared and flew for 10 to 15 minutes alongside the KAL plane, but that they did not see it dip its wings or flash its lights, internationally recognized signals used when ordering a plane to land. ., "" The Soviet news ~ency 'Fass said Friday the KAL {nape had refused to comply with "repeatedly 
issued  orders  to  the  intruder  to  
follow  them  in  order  to  land  at  
some nearby airfield."  

Suddenly the plane vanished, passengers said. Then there was a loud band and shrapnel sprayed through the 707's cabin. Some· thing had blown open a grapfruit­
sized hole in the left side of the fuselage, and two passengers were fatally injured. 
The plane plunged from 35,000 feet to 3,500 feet in minutes and finally made its emergency land­ing. 
NOTICES 

Typing-Selectric typewriter-Experienced .....term papers. dissertations, reason-
The ill-fated flight carried Japa­nese, Koreans, chines and Euro­peans, but no Americans. 
It left Paris at 6:39 a.m. EST Thursday for what should have been a nine-hour over-the.. pole flight to Anchorage. 
The pilot had searched for about 11Aa hours before landing on a frozen lake near the Soviet city of Kern, 230 miles south of Mur­mansk, a port city on the Kola Peninsula about 900 miles north of Helsinki. 
The passengers said they were on the groud about two hours before Soviet rescue helicopters found them and took them to a village, where they were detained in a guarded building until thev were flown to Murmansk Saturf' tJY to meet a specially dispatched Pan American evacuation jet. It took them to Helsinki, where the KAL relief plane was waiting. 
The Pan Am jet, which came from West Berlin, carried a doctor, a nurse and a crew of eight. 
South Korea, which has no diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union, asked the United States to negotiate the release of the pilot and navigator Lee Kun-shik. 

out," said I his wife Marilvn1. "We'll be going home to Cape Town when the Israeli embassy issues him a new passport.'' 
There was no official explanation of how or why Marclls figured in exchange, but authorities said Communist East Germany has close ties with Mozabmique and has hundreds of technicians and advisors working there. Gilman said the US State Department knew of the swap at its inception. 
Gilman said he was aided in negotiations by Dr. Wolfgang Vogel, the East German lawyer who helped engineer the return of American U-2 spy plane pilot Francis Gary Powers from Russia. He said he was called into the ca,se by Rabbi Ronald Greenwald, Mon­sey, N.Y.;,. who was approached by a member of the Israeli parliament, Samuel Flatto-Sharon. 
In Washington, an aide to Gilman said Vogel sent a letter saying that when he arrives in the United States this we,ek to pick up Thompson "he will be ready to present some options for the possi­ble release of imprisoned Soviet dissident Anatoly Shcharansky." 
Shcharansky is awaiting trial in the Soviet Union o1n charges of being a CIA operative. The United States denies that. 
Shcharansky, a 29-year-old computer programmer who has been refused permission to emi­grate to Israel, was a1rrested March 15, 1977 --shortly after the Soviet government newspaper Izvestia ac­cused him of belonging to a dissident group that collected mili­tary and industrial secrets for the CIA. 
Newsweek magazine said the Soviets may be seeking the release of Gunther and Christel Guillaume, Soviet spies in West Gel'Jllany whose arrest helped bring down Chancellor Willy Brandt's govern­ment four years ago. But a State Department source in Washington said, "1 don't think Vogel is going to talk any specifics because I don't think the Soviets have decided what they want to do with Shchar­anskv yet.'' 
FOR SALlE 

A 1971 Chevy Impala. Has power steering and power brakes. Air condi-
Bjorn Borg

Haig states 
.defeats co.,nors

U,}SR arms 
equal NATO's 
New York ]AP) The Soviet Union, which has long outstripped NATO in conventional forces in Europe, has "closed the gap" in the strategic nuclear area as well, Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr., supreme commander of NATO forces, said yesterday 
Haig was asked on NBC's "Meet the Press" program whether Soviet nuclear forces are now equal or superior to those of the Western alliance. 
"I think the best response would be that our deterrent is still viable, but that if these trends are not reversed that in the very near future, we would be without that deterrent,' 'Haig said. 
He said the Soviets have "closed the gap .. . in both the central strate,g-ic nuclear area and the 1theatre nuclear area." 
He called that trend"worri­some and said that"remedial ac­tion is necessary. 
Haig , a supporter of deploying the neutron bomb in Europe , saaid he recognized the political factors involved in President Carter's de­cision to postpone it. 
· Carter announced two weeks ago that he had postponed a decision on deployment of the newtron bomb. The announcement was made after , news reports said he would delay deployment, and it provoked criti­cisim from the West Germans and other NATO allies who want the weapon available. 
Haig said Sunday he would "have liked to see the procedure somewhat better handled." He said the incident "was a source of some discomfort on both sides of the Atlantic." 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer, year-rouna. 
Europe, S. America, Austarlia, Asia, etc. 
All fields $500-1200 monthly expenses 
paid. Sightseeing. Free Information ­
Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept., 14, 
Berkely Calif. 94704. 
I'd like to purchase a compact refrigera­tor at the end of the semester. Call Tim at 1724. Thanks! 
New restaurant needs waitresses and kitchen help. Experience helpful but not necessary. Apply in person after 1pm at Aunt Mike's Breakfast Barn, 512n US 31 N., one block north of Austen Rd., South Bend. Ask for Aunt Mike. 
NEEDED: two roomates to live off-cam­pus next year in apt. very close to campus. If interested call Mary 4287 (SMC) or Bernie 4945 (SMC). 
PERSONALS 
Andrew Patrick; 
All the SMC women faint when we show them your picture. When are you coming to collect all their birthday wishes for you? Hope your birthday was happy and you went to the bars for your free beer! Love ya muchly, 
Big Fig and Pudgy XOXOXO 
AN TOSTALIS ALMOST HERJ;I Anyone
interested in the impersonation contest should contact K.B. at 4 1-4677 before Wednesday. 
Phot club Dunes Trip, Sunday April 30. Chalet on the Lake Stevensville MI. Free for members. Call Bill Reifsteck, 1072 for answers. 
Jon Bear Greg and Skip, 
Well Hi! I just wanted to say that I thought I had a great tremendous race. Yah well, you know, over those 26 miles to Boston my body was telling my mind to stop but the mind won te battle. I guess you gotta want it. Then again, It may have been the orange shoes. 
Killer Bob 
John Hobbs! How many UMOC votes do you have? 
TOKYO (AP] -Bjorn 
Borg 
Sweden served ferociously on points and blasted sopte Ishots as he mastered Jimmy 
nors 6-1, 6-2 in the tinals $100,000 four-man invational 
nis tournament Sunday. 
Manueal Orantes of Spain beat 
Guillermo Vilas of Asentina 3-6, 
7-6, 6-4 for third place. 
Connors lost his serve three 
times in the first set and twice in 
the second as Borg let him try to 
force the action and make errors. Connors missed on a number 
approach shots and · sometimes 
when he got to the net Borg 
surprised him with b1a!iitS right at 
him instead of trying to pass him. Connors looked as if he was 
starting to recover when he won six 
of seven points early in the second 
set, winning his own serve for 1-1 
and going ahead 0-30 on Borg's. But then he missed a 
volley on a good chance 
forehand wide, and Borg 
with two accurate passing shots. 
WSND to air Bookstore scores 
[continued from page 12] I, Nutmeggers, Leo's Last, Linda 
Lovelace and The Gang, and The Jackson Five will all see action at Stepan. 
Bookstore Basketball results will be announced everyday this week on WSND (6400). 
Ugly man is here. Vote this week In dining halls. Penny a vote. 
The Orest for UMOC hotline 24-hour service. Call 1413. 
WANTED: People with picks, shovels, and metal detectors. Call the Orest for 
UMOC vote getting committee. 
Anyone interested in serving as press secretary for student union's cultural arts commisssion should contact Jerry at 6721. Observer experience desired, but not necessary. · 
Patty, Julio, Christopher, and Jessica: When are you coming to visit -Can't wait. Love, Susie 
Vote John Hobbs ugliest Okie. 
Hey Notre Dame Band! Remember to vote for Bruce McCaffrey for President tomorrow. 
Dr. Crooks, Conarats! Will you make hut calls In Brazil1 
Muck-a-roo----­Congrats on Tufts!! We are proud of you!! Love, Sandy 
If anyone knows the whereabouts of our roomate, Rosemary Mills, let us know at 6843. We haven t seen'her In Farley · since before break. We miss her! 
Ruby, Who would do acrazy thing like that?!? "Daisy" 
To the Dissident Elements-
Thank you for all the great times, memories and for making my senior year the greatest. You are one In a million. 
JoAnn 
The Arts and Letters Student Advisory ., Council is holding Interviews for new members Aprll27. If Interested call Fran Murphy at 1073. 
Today's the day!! Vote for success In Holy Cross Hall. Elect Vitali & Sanderek for hall office. 
HELP WANTED!! Underclassmen wan­ted for stimulating, enriching work this ­summer and next year. car necessary.
Pandora's Books. 232-2342. 


able, accurate. 232-5715. 
tioning. Call1681. 
The Distillery Liquor Store -1723 South I..!==============:.J -U-se_d_g-ol-fba-lls---~1-.ke_n_e_w_,-,20-pe-r-100_a_nd 
Bend Ave., will have an opening for a LOST AND FOUND clerk position starting the 3rd week of May -thru summer and possibly next year. Must be 21. Apply in person. FOUND: NO gym bag in ACC locker 
room. Identify contents. 4864. NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Services, IBM LOST: To the guy who picked me up Correcting Selectric. 85 cents per page hitchhiking on ND Avenue Thursday minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you 4-13. You were listening to a George want the best." Harrison tape. The red folder is mine. 
Please help and call Mike 287-5568. Connecticut Baggage Truck to Hartford and New Haven areas. Call Jim 3267 or LOST: SMC campus. Gold peral braclet Kevin 3361 for information. Great sentimental value. Please call 
Teresita 4-1-4197. 

NUNS-Summer rents, June through August 4 bedroom house, tri-level. FOUND: General motors car keys in !he 255-5879 after 5 pm. field behind the ACC. Call 2132. 
save on next year's book money now. FOUND: Timex watch by St. Mary'sPandora's buys used books for cash or Lake. Call 2132. credit -applicable to next year. Besides, we now have great books for summer LOST: Blue NO jacket at Nickles. reading. 137 South Bend Avenue. 11-6 Reward. Name in jacket. . daily. 
LOST: One the shuttle, Grandma's gift of Dissertations, manuscripts....etc., typed. white umbrella with tortoise shell handle IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. in white leather case. Between 6:30-9:30 287-4971. Monday. Meg, SMC 4781. 
Need ride for one lovely girl from LOST: Blue down vest in girl's locker Pittsburgh and back for An Tostal room at ACC. Call Julie 7905. weekend. She can drive, she can pay, 
and she is good company! Call 6743. LOST: Notre Dame warm-up jacket while 
1was playing Bookstore with the Tl LCS. Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call: Call Kevin 8986. 287-5162. 
LOST: One blue fiberglass raquetball raquet with leather grip. Reward. Call 1605 if found. 
LOST: Girl's gold Seiko watch, gold
FOR RENT watch band. Call Kathy Rosenthal at 8125. Reward. 

Fine house In a good neighborhood LOST: Gold watch with engraved back. (Portage and Angela area) reasonable Lost In the North Dining Hall , Farley
rents. For 4-5-or 6 students. Contac:t Hall, or the road to SMC. GreatJoseph Gatto 234-6688. 
sentimental value. Reward. Call Kathy 6781.

Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off-campus. Lower summer rent FOUND: A 1978 St Anselm's Collegeclose to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for Class ring. Found In the Library. Call 
more details. 
7825. 

other prices. Call 272-Q783. 
Stereo equipment major brands discount on fully guaranteed factory sealed audio-video eqpt. Elliot E11terprises, Park Court, Buchanon Mich, 49107. Call Niles toll free 683-0121. -----------· FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL ANO USC FOOTBALL: UCLA KENTUCKY AND MAYLAND BASKETBALL PICTURES FOR SALE. SPORTSILLUSTRATIED MATERIAL AT A LOW PRICE. CALL DOUG AT 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Gibson LG-s Guitar. Perfect condition. $325. Call Terry 288-37'06. 
WANTED 

Living in Boston this summer and need a place to live? Call 283-8148. 
WANTED: Summer renters for nice house three blocks from campus -3-4-or 5 people . Call 283-8148. 
Need roomate(s) to live in off-campus apartment. If interested please call Lenny 2n-2397. 
Need 1or more female grad students to share apartment at Michigan in Sept. Call Claire 289-6533. 
Need one or more female grad students to share apt. at I,U. In Sept Call Beth 289-6533. 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS: Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 301-654-3no, or send 2 complete resu­mes and two pictures to:Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase. MD. 20015. 
_j 

Monday, April 24, 1976
12 the observer 

Bookstore favorites dominate play 

·'I thinkg the crowds give you a brothers are also doctors and sawby Ray O'Brien five minute advantage before you the race as a way to stay healthy. 
Sports Editor even start," explained Nokes. While Rycyna ran unofficially. "Between all the people screaming his finishing time would haveHe is alive and still working in for you and running with people qualified as he went under thethe Golden Dome. Many people like Bill Rodgers (winner), you three hjour mark finishing aroundmay have been asking what hap~ have to run better." the same time as Nokes.
All Bookstore teams ranked in the top ten survived weekend play as pened to the featured Notre Dame Nokes was not the only Boston ·'Running the Boston Marth on the field was narrowed to &4. [Photo by Mark Muench] runner who participated in the Marathon participant from Notre was like running in 26 miles ofBoston Marathon last Monday.
.,. il·:' -·-................ • . 
.. Dame. Bob Rycyna, Chris Digan tunnel," noted Rycyna. "I was not
Donald "D.C." Nokes survived the and TimSalamunovichsurvived the as hard as I thought it was going tonjce and returned to tell about it. 
infamous course. be. In fact. running that last five''It was just a super weekend aifli Rycyna is a sophomore science miles downhill was much harder
•· the crowds were unbelievable,"
*obser~ve.t--·.. -c.~ . 
major who does not run track for than going up Heartbreak Hill."
Dokes commented. "I think be­Notre Dame. He decided to make Salamunovich Digan also rancause of all the excitement, the the journey back east to join his unofficially. The two Irish Guards race didn't bother me physically." 
brothers Steve and Mike who are posted repectable times aroundNokes left South Bend enroute to Notre Dame graduates. Both three hours and thirty minutes.
Boston with a goal to finish the race and break his personal record.
spor,ts·. 
Both were accomplished as the Admissions Counselor finished around 1,600 in a field of over ·~(~ <
~~~' 

5,000. Nokes completed the 26 
.:·... \'

mile course in two hours and 55 
-• •. '1_",',.•. 
minutes. 

ND offense overpowering 
by Gregory Solman Saturday, as has been the case in Nick Vehr scored on a eight-yardAssociate Sports Editor other practices this spring. 
pass from Tim Koegel who was •'There was a lot of good hitting calling signals. Greg Knafelc was Vagus f, rguson, picking up 90 today," commented Devine, "A used extensively at quarterbackyards in just four attempts, con­pretty spirited affair--even a little Saturday, completing nine of tinued to impress, as Saturday's too spirited at times." 
seventeen passes attempted for 80 scrimmage turned into another Devine was quoted as saying, 
yard~>.

offensive show. however, that the emotional out­The offense didn't steal the show Ferguson, who along with Je­breaks "wt:ren't the kind of skir­entirely, however, as Randy Har­rome Heavens, played only in the mishes that will carry over to the rison, Joe Restic and Phil Johnson initial two drives, also scored on a locker room anyway." 
ail snagged interceptions. 
seven-yard run, to add to what has "Players are always up for Harrison played strong safety in been a spectacular spring for the scrimmages more than practices,'' place of Jim Browner, and Rusty.... sophomore from Richmond, In­explained freshman quarterback Lisch was inserted at split-end for a diana. Mike Courey, "because they know 
few plays.

Joe Montana had a good day it's their chance to show the Devine was quoted as saying,
• seeing limited action. Montana coaches what they've got." 
"We, were doing a little experimen­directed a three-play scoring drive Meanwhile, as the scrimmage ting :todlay. With the few peoplethe first time the offense touched progressed, Courey was doing a 
we have, we almost have to."
the ball, against the number two little impressing himself, directing John Hankerd, middle line­defense, using Ferguson for a a drive against the no. 2 defense, backer was the latest casualty in48-yard run, and backfield mate and capping the attack with his own what has been a very rough spring Jerome Heavens for a 22-yard two-yard run. 
from the standpoint of injuries--so score. Montana also captained "The offensive line did an ex­rough, in face, that Coach Devine is another 70-yard scoring drive be­cellent job," Courey said, "They not looking forward to the annualfore being replaced by quarter­blew out the left side of the line, Blu-Gold confrontation scheduledback's Rusty Lisch (3 of 5 in the and I just optioned the strong­
to be played in two weeks.
air), Mike Courey, Greg Knafelc safety." and Tim Koegel, who all directed Under the auspices of Rusty Devine said that the game will be 
scoring drives, the latter three Lisch, Pete Pallas, (61 yards in played, but added, "if it wasn't for using the number two offense to seven attempts) scored on a three all the people coming in to watch drive on the number two defense. yard drive. Jim Stone also had a the game, and the importance put Irish q""''"Arn:>rot 
Minor skirmishes broke out be­strong running day, finishing with on it, I would probably cancel it just efficiently directed tween the offense and the pefense 87 vards in 15 carries. because of our lack of numbers.'' Mark Muench] 
his comic talent, borrowed a bicycle  leading scorer was Jim Stone with  sive field goals without  a  miss.  
and pedaled off into the sunset.  He  six,  followed  by  Woolridge  and  Tripucka did grab ten rebounds.  
returned, however, in time to help  Kenny Harris with five apiece.  In  Bill  Laimbeer  led  the  Tappa­ 
The Butcher Brothers to  a  21-12  T.B. Expres I's 21-8 opening round  kegga Brus to a 21-8 pasting of the  
win over The Bay Wizzards.  Bruce  win on Friday, Woolridge awed the  Everso  Butch  Boys  with  nine  
Flowers  bagged eight  of  eleven  crowd with  a  record eight slams,  hoops,  seven  rebounds,  and  five  
shots  and  claimed  a  dozen  re­ eclipsing Bill Laimbeers  mark  of  rejections.  Two-time all-Bookstore  
bounds  for  the  winners,  while  seven.  Included in the 6-9 fresh­ performer Dana Snoap and Rusty  
Huffman added five hoops and ten  man's  repertoire  were  a  three­ Lisch tallied seven hoops apiece as  
caroms.  sixty, and a well-timed tip-stuff.  Leo's last rolled past Karl  Wall­ 
. Joe Montana was another  cam­ Gilbert Salinas' Green  Popcorn  enda and the Grease Spots 21-6.  
pus personality who distinguished  outfit overcame a psyche job that  Jeff Carpenter kicked in five for the  
himself Sunday.  The Notre Dame  would have made  Digger Phelps  winners after failing on his first six  
quarterback, who was misinformed  green with  envy  to  trample  Karl  shots.  
~bout the starting time, was AWOL  Wallenda  and  the  Unbalanced  ·  Namesake Tracy Jackson paced  
as his team TILCS IV, the defend­ Attack.  Moments before the game  The  Jackson  Five  to  a  21-13  
ing champs, disposed of It Doesn't  was  to  tip-off,  the  Unbalanced  triumph  over  The  Five  Grand.  
Rub Off 21-13.  Hopefully,  Mon­ Attack  produced  a  container  of  Jackson popped in eight field goals  
tana will have his dates and times  green popcorn, which they began  to go along with 14 rebounds.  Jim  
straightened away before fall,  or  to eat before throwing the remain­ Singer chipped in with five buck­ 
r;>an Devine might be in for a long  der  on  the  court.  But  Steve  ets.  
season.  Nataro's 8-11 shooting and Kevin  Linda Lovelace and the Gang had  
A fine offensive performance by  Hawkin's  five  baskets  and  eight  little  trouble  disposing  of  Joe  
point  guard  Mike  Miller,  who  rebounds spelled defeat forK. W.'s  Ponsetti' s  Car-Kickers  21-11.  
ripped  for  11  markers,  and  five  gang.  Hawkins is the son  of the  Randy Haefner found the range on  
baskets from Billy Sheehan offset  third-leading scorer in Notre Dame  nine of sixteen attempts, and Dan  
Dave Batton's 3-12 shooting day for  basketball history, Tom Hawkins.  Hatfield canned six of seven shots.  
the TILCS. Hal Reilly's 7-26 shoot­ In  other  action,  Chumps  Too  Scott Thompson, making history as  
ing figures in defeat would  have  helped the Not Ready for Bookstore  the first assistant basketball coach  
made any Hoosier proud.  Basketball Players live up to their  to play in  the tournament,  made  
The Nutmeggers, who have been  name with a 21-4 shellacking.  Bill  four of his six shots.  
to the final eight for each of thepast  Hanzlik  missed  only  five  of the  In  the  closest  of the  featured  
past two years,  cam  away with  a  twelve shots, but one was a clanged  games,  T.B.  Express  III  nipped  
hard-fought  21-15  verdict  over  dunk  that  wound  up  near  the  Lonnie's  and  Mark  Czaja  added  
More  Beer.  Mike  Howard  and  half-court  stripe.  The  returning  four.  
Mike Meyer were instrumental in  Mr.  Bookstore,  Tom  Sudkamp,  The tournament continues today  
spoiling More Beer's upset hopes,  h.auled down eight rebounds for the  with  a  full  slate  of  games.  
which  were  sparked  by  Mike  Chumps.  Scheduled  behind  the  Book­ 
Gilleski's eight buckets.  Strapmasquon and His Combat  store will be  .Chumps Too at  
Orlando Woolridge boosted his  Wombats overcame a 4-14 shooting  4:00,  Green  Popcorn  at  4:45,  
cumulative  dunk  total  for  the  performance by Kelly Tripucka to  Tappakegga Brus at 5:30, TILCS IV  
tournament to 11  as  he slammed  whip the South Padre Boys, 21-10.  at 6:30.  Six 6:30 games highlight  
home three to lead T.B. Express I  Wombat  Greg  Knafelc  tied  a  the Stepan schedule: T.B. Express  
past A-Explosions,  21-9.  T.B.'s  Bookstore record with eight succes­ [continued on page 11)  

Nokes survives marathon 
by Craig Cbval Sports Writer 
The field for this year's edition of the fabled Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball tournament was re­duced to sixty-four Sunday, and there were no major casualties among the favored teams. 
In fact in all the games featured in the "Bookstore Bonanza" held behind the bookstore yesterday, the only injuries reported were a few bruised egos. Topping off the list of players swallowing their pride was Irish football center Dave Huffman, who connected with nothing but air on a solo break­away. Huffman, perhaps in an attempt to save face by displaying 





