-~ 
' I. 1 
From heart attack 

ROME [AP] -Pope John Paul I broken up with laughter from died of a heart attack in his sleep guests. during the night, the Vatican Just two days ago, presiding 
announced. He was 65 and had over the weekly Vatican general been elededjust last month. audience, he called up a 5th grade 
The Vatican said the pontiff died student and interviewed him in about 11 p.m. Thursday and his front of the 10,000 persons packing death was discovered when his the hall. 
household staff came to wake him "Well, you are different from the about 5:30 a.m. Fridav morning. pope,'' the pontiff remarked. During his brief reign, the "When I was in 4th grade, I 
pontiff had already transformed the worried about making it to the 5th normally sedate papal audiences and when in the 5th, about passing into informal gatherings, prepared to the 6th." 
with personal anecdotes and Such anecdotes had emerged as trademarks of John Paul, endear­ing him to the public. By contrast, his predecessor, Paul VI, was noted for his formal and inteiJectual approach to his general audiences, resorting to humor only on rare occasions. 
Born Albino Luciani, the 263rd pontiff was the product of one of the thousands of villages that dot the Italian countryside. 
"I am a little man accustomed to little things and to silence," he said before his election. 
He had spent most of his life in 
by Kathleen ConneUy student input in the official Senior Staff Reporter decision-making mechanism of the university. · 
At a Student Rights Forum last Jim O'Hare, president of Grace night in Washington Ha11, Dean of Hall, quoted a passage form duLac Students James Roemer and Vice which stated that "a major objec­President for Student Affairs Fr. tive of the Univet"sity of Notre John Van Wolvlear responded to Dame is to provide opportunities questions· on the Campus Life for constructive and responsible Council (CLC), student input, Jiving in a democratic society." parietals and the right to privacy. Using the quote as a reference 
About 400 students attended the O'Hare asked Van Wolvlear how he forum, which lasted one and one-thought the University was fulfil­half hours. ling that objective ''when students 
Roemer and Van Wolvlear have little or no say in the rules opened the forum with remarks they must follow. outlining recent changes concern-Van Wolvlear responded that ning student rights and judicial stndents do have the opportunity to procedure. Both men expressed make decisions and that various. their support for the forum -what groups on campus have John Reid, director of Student themselves capable of 'tndleo,ehlllel:ttn Activities, ca11ed "a unique oppor-activity. tunity for students to interact with 0' Hare countered th the Office of Student Affairs.'' that the students neeolec1'1"' 
The first questions from students "formal vehide" for focused on the need for effective Wolvlear noted that •~~---'""'""' 
According to GOP sources 
student body is a voluntary com­munity and that students have the · · wishes Govern-

by Kevin Richardson mas only one percentage pomt Staff Reporter ahead of his Republican challen­ger, Thomas L. Thorson. 
A source at the Republican The source, who asked to remain National Committee in Washington unnamed, stated the po11 was said yesterday results of a po11 were conducted under the auspices of leaked showing incumbent Demo-the Indiana State Democrat Com­
,..c_r...:.a_ti...:.c_C_o_n..!:!g:.....re.:...s.:...s...:.m._a;_n_J_o_h_:n:;__B::...::...ra...:.d_e_-_m!!!!:itt~ee~.:...__-----------. 
A rather artistic viewpoint of du Lac's most popular form of transportation -bicycles. [Photo by Bob Gill.] 

Democrat_ poll shows close race 
Brademas, who is Majority Whip in the House of Representatives and third ranking Democrat, repre­sents Indiana's Third Congres­sional District, which includes South Bend and Notre Dame-Saint Mary's. 
Brent Bahler, Thorson's cam­paign manager in South Bend, confirmed reports of the poll to The Observer. "I received the news about the poll from very reliable sources in Washington," he said. Bahler said the po11 reflected virtual dead heat between the two candidates, with Brademas receiv­ing 44 percent; Thorson 43 percent and 13 percent undecided. 
"The importance of this poll can't be overstated," Bahler said. "It shows that the third most powerful Democrat in the House, who is a twenty-year incumbent, is very vulnerable to challenge." 
Frank SuJiivan, Brademas' cam­paign manager said, "I've never even heard of the poU. I just got back from out of town and have no knowledge of the existence of any such poll.'' Sullivan said that the Brademas campaign commission does its own polls, but they are "solely for internal use, we have 
.•. 
Italy's northeast where he was born in the Alpine vaiJey village of Forno di Canale. His father, a socialist, was for many years a migrant worker in Switzerland. His mother 
was a peasant, ••strong devout," as he once said. He entered the seminary  and at a  
At 65 years  

young age and during summer vacations returned home to work in the fields. 
Many in his home village remember seeing hip1 cutting the grass wearing his black cassock that seminarian then wore. 
His favorite subjects as a student were philosophy, theology and literature. 
He was ordained a priest on July 7, 1935 and graduated from Rome's Gregorian University. After gradu­ation he went back to his native viHage to work in the local parish, then to a nearby town where he also taught religion in a vocational school. 
For the next 10 years he was deputy director in the Belluno Seminary. In 1948, Luciani became one of the top aides of the bishop of BeUuno and was put in charge of teaching religion. 
He concentrated on making his 
replied that in his view parietals demonstrated a respect for the privacy of others. 
"The rationale behind parietals has nothing to do with sexuality,'' Roemer explained. "It is a quiet hour type of thing where certain times that haiJ is supposed to go quiet and other people are supposed to be out of the hall." 
Several individuals raised objec­tions to this rationale, remarking that members of the same sex may visit after hours, but that members of sex make as much noise as 
student was concerned 
search of dorm rooms in with parietals. Roemer administrative personnel 
rooms  only  with  the  
s  permission  or  in  an  
situation.  
'  the  ensuing  exchange,  it  

that there was not a clear standing of what constituted. 
never released the results to the press." 
Sullivan declined to describe the results of the polls that had been taken on Brademas' behalf this year. 
When asked about his opinions regarding the closeness of the race, Sullivan said, "I believe the Con­gressman is considerably stronger than he was last spring." 
Bahler stated a different opinion: 
"I think that we've been steadily gaining ground on him (Brademas) and that we're going to win." He continued by saying "Tom (Thor­son) has demonstrated himself as a capable candidate and we are confident that the voters will respond to our message of lower taxes, less bureaucracy and lower inflation." 
The Abnan.c of American Poll-tics describes Brademas as "pro­bably the Congress's leading expert on the financing of higher education." 
"Congressman Brademas is Chairman of the Select Sub-Committee on Education which provides financial assistance f01 helping the mentally disabled and the handicapped. It funds pro-teaching as simple as possible so that i11iterate mountain people could understand it. He recounted his experiences in a book titled ''Catechism in Crumbs," now in its seventh edition. 
He had been vicar general in Belluno for four years, when Po~ John XXIII named him bishop of Vittorio Veneto, a diocese south of Belluno, in 1958. 
In Vittorio Veneto, the bist,<>p was immediately confronted by a financial 3candal involving ' two priests who had piled up detils and overdrawn checking accounts. 
Luciani summoned all400 priests in the diocese and spoke to them about the need for the church to be poor. Then, he paid the two priests' debts out nf dtoc~san income. 
During the 1962-65 Vatican Council, Luciani said it was difficult for him to change his frame of mind from pre-council church attitudes toward the more Iibera! teachings. 
''The part that caused me more problems was that on religious liberty," he said later, referring to the council decree stating the right of full and equal liberty for belivers and non-believers alike. 
''For years I had been teach­ing ... theories about law according to which only the true Roman Catholic religion has rights. I convinced myself we were wrong." 
an emergency situation. . . The student asked if a giggle from behind a door in a men's dorm ·at 2:30was an emergency situation. 
Roemer responded that that kind of decision was up to the rector of the individual hall. 
The possibility of Jetting hall judicial boards decide parietals cases was raised by Mary Paulsen, president of Dillon Hall. 
''If parietals are solely to protect our privacy, why can't it be a hall judicial matter alone, not a Univer­sity offense?" he asked. 
Citing his lack of experience and understanding of the history of parietals, Van Wolvlear declined to comment, but Roemer stated that the hall boards do not have jurisdiction over that area, but that it would be possible to make parietals a hall offense using the CLC. 
In his closing remarks, Roemer 
[Coatlnued on p~~ge 17.] 
I grams like the ones at the Northern Indiana State Hospital and Logan Center," Sullivan said. 
Brademas is a member of the Post Secondary Education Subcom­mittee in the House and has authored the guaranteed student Joan program, and other student loan/grant bills. "All of these are 
used  by  Notre  Dame  and  Saint  
Mary's Students," Sullivan.  
Bahler  raised  the  fact  that  

"Brademas voted against tuition tax credits, something very impor­tant to students of private schools such as Notre Dame." 
"I don't find Brademas' record on education all that impressive. After all those millions of dollars, Johnny still can't read. Money and buildings don't solve the problems, people do," Bahler said. 
Brademas is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvar University. a Phi Beta Kappa Veterans National Scholar, a Rhodes Scholar and has an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame. 
He is a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers, and the Liberal Arts Advisory Council at Notle Dame. 
[Coatlaaed-p~~~el7.) 
-----------------------------------------------------~--~--------~--~----.-----­
2 the observer __ _ Friday, September 29, 1978 
rNews Briefs____
.........,. 
Juniper Press begins publication 
Tax credit passed 
Juniper Press, the onlv student haven't had serious fictional Juniper's second title was owned and operated publishing, explanation, such as nuns and Cleats, co-authored by Georg"­house in the country, is bacK -m Polish mothers." Berry, John Gelson, and KerW~SIDNGTON • Senate and House conferees agreed yesterda on business. This past week, the book Frese's work was selected for MacAfee, a former Notre Damt'a b11l that would allow a tax credit of up to $250 per student y h company ended its search for a publication from a total of 12 All-American tight end in football. 
year to help offset.college tuition costs. The credit would be f:·~s manuscript and signed Dolores manuscripts that were submitted The Juniper Press staff is madeperce.nt of expenditures for tuition, fees and certain other cost~ of Frese, an assistant professor in the for consideration. The selection of up of 17 senior American Studie->v~~tJOnal and college education. Half-time students would become Department _ of English, to a her manuscript was a unanimous majors, each of whom invested $35ehg1ble for the credit starting in 1980. 
publishing contract decision by the 17 student or more to make up the company's Frese's manuscript, tentatively members of the company. beginning vudget. Karen Caruso is entitled Virgins and Martyrs. Frese, whose specialty is the company's president and Greg
Jury chosen for Soviets 
contains one novella and five short medieval literature and creative Riehle is editor-in-chief. Chri~ l­stories. All six pieces of fiction writing, has contributed fiction and man serves as chairman of theNEWARK, NJ • Ajury of seven women and nine men was sworn in have women as the central chara poetry to numerous periodicals and board.
early yesterday to hear the case against two Russian employees of 
ters. The manuscript was writt< has authored two novels. Christman described thethe United Nations charged with espionage. The jurors, in~luding under a summer grant from tl.! VIrgins md Martyrs will be the company as a "do it" course wherefour alternates, were questioned by a U.S. District Court judge to O'Brien foundation and adminis­third title published by Juniper students learn by doing. Shedetermine whether they might be prejudiced against Russians or tered through Noc:re Dame's Center Press. The company, founded in stressed, however, that evencommunists. ne trial of the two U.N. employees is to begin Friday. 
for the Study of Man. the spring of 1977 as part of a book though one of the main objectives The author, who resides publishing course taugh1 by is to make a profit in the end ­Chicago and commutes daily ·J Elizabeth Christman, first relt tsed whereby the students can get back
Pinto to be examined 
South Bend by airplane, descri :d QUick as a Dodo, a novella by l<alph their original investment -a loss her work as "focusing on hut· an M. Mclnery, a professor of phil­could be just as baluable a learning ELKHART, Ind.· Ford Motor Co., indicted for reckless homicide in 
experiences that are peculiar to 
os<>Pntv at Notre Dame. experience too. a Pinto crash case, will be allowed to examine the wreckage of the 
women." car but it must notify the county prosecutor 48 hours in advance, 
"The stories," she siad, "ex­says the judge assigned to the case. After meeting with Ford 
plore women -who aren't generally 
&unbau !lasses 
the subject of serious fiction and Hughes ruled that inspectors for the giant autom:t'• er have until 
attorneys earlier this week, Elkhart Superior Court Judge Charles 
at 
Nov. 1 to check the car, which is currently being store : by a wrecker 
Beach Boys
service in nearby Goshen. He added that the ·ames of the 
hrrtb Jltart <!rl}urclt
inspectors and the time of examination must bl. provided to 
lottery
Prosecutor Michael Cosentino. 
S:1S p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C. 
opens Monday 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.
Weather 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
There will be a lottery Sunday at 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. M. J. McCafferty, C.S.C.
6 p.m. for tickets to the Oct. 28
Su?ny and warmer tod~y with highs· in the upper 60s to the low 70s. Beach Boys concert. The lottery,
Fa1r and. not so cold tomght with lows in the mid to upper 40s. Partly 
which will be held in the main
~unny with a chance of showers and thunderstorms tomorrow. High· m the low 70s. 
lobby of LaFortune, will assign numbers for positions in line when 

Imported & Domestic ·tickets go on sale at the Student Union ticket office on Monday at 9 
Pastas 
a.m.
~On Campus Today-----.... 
6different brands
The ACC will also be selling 
like Agnesi & Dececco
tickets to the concert. Lines hegin 
biggest sellers in Italy
11 am talk, "us operations in the third world", by gov. 
forming Sunday at 6 p.m. for l.le 9 john i-gilligan, hayes-healy aud. 
a.m. opening of the ACC ticket 
office on Monday. Each student participating in the Ravioli 
3:30pm 
lecture, "criminal code reform: why it will take away 
lottery must have his own ID and frozen home style 
Cold Meats 
your civil liberties", by frank wilkinson, rm. 101 law 
there will be a purchase limit of ten school 
Ge 10v • Salame.
tickets per person. Measures will 
Pnmo PrJsciutto,
be taken to ensure that each Ricotta Cheese student in the lottery receives only 
Capic.ollo Soprassata
4:30pm 
lecture, "control of ion movements in normal and one number. 
Hot or Mild Capicollo,________
cancer cells", by dr. effriam racker 123 nieuwland 
Prices are $8.50 for floor and science hall ' 
arena seats, $7.50 for bleacher seats. 
Italian Pastry 
Italian Bologna 
and Cannoli 
4:30pm seminar, "dna repair and the induction of chromo­
some aberrations in mammalian cells", by doctor 
Gourmet
Italian Sausage
edward hiss, galvin life-sci aud. 
*The Observer 
homemaue 
Food Gadgets 
5:15pm mass and supper, at the bulla shed, all welcome 
Imported Olive Oil 
TONIGHT'S THEME: 
Filippo Berio & Bertolli 
BATTLESTAR GALACTICA 7, 9, 11 pm film, "the french connection", engr. aud. $1 
,__5%disc--ount
for purchase 
PUZZELLO'S
Commander Adama: Scoop 
$20 or more
Sullivan 
with ND-SMC 10
Col. Tighe: Ed Nuert Viper Warriors: Pat "Capt. 
8 pm concert, paul clark and friends concert, lib. aud. 
~!~~~t~:~~mP SUPER MARKET
._____..
Ap -:>llo" Campbell, Beth "Lt. 8 pm soccer, nd. vs. purdue 
Starbuck" Huffman, Phil 
433 No. Hill St. 232-2512 "Boomer" Cackley 
Hours: Everyday 9-6:30 
Count Baltar: Greg Hedges
saturday septemper 30 Boxy: Muley & Cazzo Cylons: lisa (I missed you again) DiValerio, Kim Convey, 
7:45am test med-cats (medical college adm. test) engr aud. 
Katie Brehl, Bill Swift, Paula Vernon Serinas: me and the boss just 
9am field hockey, smc vs. nd, madeleva field having a good old time! lucifer: M.R. Moran Shuttle Pilot: Phil Cackley {jack of all trades certainly not 
1:30pm football, nd. vs. purdue 
a master of copy reading) Ovions: Chris Slatt, Beth Cu~ 
'• 
ler 8 pm concert, "aerosmith", a.c.c. 
Muffet the Dagget Bob Gil 
Early Bird Special
Marty: I find editorials to be a sunday october 1 
useless tool of the observer; it definitely was binding waiting for them. 
Friday and
2 pm chess moatch, nd. vs. kalamazoo college, Ia fortune basement, all welcome 
Saturday Night 7-1 Opm 
2 and 7 pm third world film festival, "the battle of chile" 
3-12oz Drafts S1.00
wuhington hall 
The Observer Is pulalisllecl Men­day through Friday except llurtn1 eum ud vacat6ofl periOds. Tt)e Obsetver Is publlslled lty the
2:4S pm eucharistic hour, a.c.c. 
atudents of Notre O.~ne and Saint Mwy's Collete. Subscriptions may be purchued for UO per ,._. 
SATURDAY MORNING 
($1 0 "r semester) frem The
7pm meeting, ham radio club meeting, groace hall 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second
penthouse 
7am til gametime:
dau post.,• paid, Notre DMie, tndlana, 46556. . The Obaerver 11 • ....mber of 
Bloody Mary's 2 for Sl 
the Aaaodated Prell. All f'ltti'O· dudlon rights .,.. reaerved.
8pm recital, organist Richard Resch, sacred heoart church 


--------~ 
Fri~ay, September 29_,_~~?~ ______..lh...__e'-o.-.-b...,.s....,.aiiE..Irv._.__,er.,.____3 
Carter threatens court action 
Railroad strikers ignore back to work order 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Striking railroad workers ignored President Carter's 60-day back-to-work order Thursday night and expanded their picketing to eight more railroads. 
Union officials said the new picketing was set in motion after the marathon bargaining ended yesterday afternoon with no settle­ment between the strikebound Norfolk & Western Railway and the striking Brotherhood of Railway and Airline Clerks. 
A top industry spokesman said the new picketing means virtually all U.S. lines are now affected. 
"While the president of the United States was making his announcement ordering striking workers back to work immediately the unions were escalating theit pickets," said Charles Hopkins. the top industry bargainer. 
Dan Lang, an industry spokes man, said he understood the ne\\ pickets were ordered even before Carter issued the immediate back­to-work order. 
"I don't understand what the union thinks it's doing," said Lang. Meanwhile, the railroads went to 
U.S. District Court here last night seeking a temporary restrain­ing order to halt the continued walkout. It was unclear how the industry feels the action would speed a return to work, since the Carter decree called for an immedi­ate end to the walkout. 
The union was expected to ask 
U.S. District Judge Aubrey Robin­son Jr. to order the railroads not to punish striking workers when they return to work. 
Earlier, Fred Kroll, president of the striking clerks union, had 
For student employees 
Dining hall staff wants pay hike 
by Kathleen ConneUy Senior Staff Reporter 
In a letter circulated to Admmis­
tration officials almost a week .1go, 
student dining hall workers re­
quested "a fair wage for their 
work." 
The letter was spurred by 
students' disappointment that they 
did not receive a September pay 
increase that in the past has been 
"t··aditional." 
Jining hall workers spokesman 
Michael Berberich state d in the 
letcer that "a significant numb(~r of 
students must use campus employ­
ment as a means of helping to meet 
educational costs." For this 
reason, and because "the kind of 
wt>rk we're doing merits more ~han 
$2.50 an hour," Berberich and 
other student workers began a·"1out 
a month ago to try to gt t a 
commitment from the Admini<>tra­
tion to raise their salaries. 
In a meeting in early September, 
Thomas Bull, director of Personnel. 
assured the Student workers that a 
substantial pay increase would take 
effect in January of this year. 
Workers, however, objected that 
"substantial" was too vague and 
that the Adminstration "was trying 
to delay action on the issue in order 
to inhibit efforts to get a wage 
increase for this semester," accor­
ding to Berberich. 
In a subsequent private meeting 
with student worker representa­
tives Berberich, .Chris, Conboy, and 
Sue Charrity, Bull stated that the 
decision to exclude student workers 
from the pay hike was a conscious 
one. 
He stated that he did not believe 
the needs of students were as 
Concert series 
begins tonight 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will present the Notre Dame Piano Trio in a recital 8: 15 pm tonight in the Library Auditorium. The recital, which features works by Beethoven and Schubert, is open to the public without charge. 
The Notre Dame Piano Trio is made up offaculty performers from ,he Notre Dame music department: Adrian Bryttan, violin; Deborah Davis, cello, and William Cerny, piano. Bryttan is also concert­1naster of the South Bend Symp­
lOny, of which Ms. Davis is the principal cellist. Cerny is chairman of the Notre Dame music depart­ment. 
After graduation, what? 
lfthis is a question for you, come to the Placement Bureau, Rm. 222. Administration Building, or call 8342 to make an appointment with Sr. Kathleen Rossman, Career Counselor or Paul Reynolds, Place­ment Specialist. 
If you are interested call 8342 to sign for one of the workshops which will be offered on a variety of dates from 11:30..12:30 (brown bag lunches welcome) several Mon· 
day's, Tuesday's and Wednes· 
dav:,S.,...~ ... -·--··
t!'.... •.--•
'!I 
pressing as those of staff (non­student) workers, and that the funds in part generated by the tuition increase were alloted to staff workers. 
-Yesterday in an interview, Bull explained in greater depth the justifications for passing over stu­dent workers. he repeated that the primary reason the funds had been allocated to staff employees was that his office and the Office of Financial Aid had determind that the needs of the students were not as pressing as those of the staff workers. 
Some of the money generated by the recent tuition increase was used to benefit non-student Univer­sity employees for a number of reason. 
First, Bull stated, the staff workers are · • career people and have to support families." He said, "Their needs had priority." 
Bull also commented that the benefits and salaries of University employees are not at a compet:1tive level with those of the surrounding business community. He said he sees the increase in benefits and wages as a step toward giving University employees adequate compensation for their work. 
Regarding the question of finan­cial aid, Bull cited the fact that the dining hall positions can only meet a certain level of need owing to the fragmented working schedules of the students. 
"If a student has a stronger need than the dining hall positions can accommodate, he or she can be resourceful and investigat the pos­sibilities of employment outside the University," Bull suggested, ad­ding that if a student has that strong a need, there are better part-time jobs than working at the dining halls. 

Bull also cited the fact that students eligible for financial aid employment turned down the op­portunity to work and noted that their nneds were being met by othe forms of assistance such as loans and scholarships. 
Bull acknowledged that previ­ously there had been a tacit understanding that students would receive pay hikes in September, but explained that the funds had been used for staff benefits and that the student raise would take effect in january. "It will be suhstantiial," he noted, "From 10 to 25 cents per hour." 
Bull could not announce the raise for the students or the amount early in the semester because of a need to be cautious in the wake of the groundskeepers controversy and the National Labor Relations Board hearings. 
Bull disclosed that he was hesi­tant to announce student pay raised because that would cause resent­ment on the part of staff employ­ees. 
Further. Bull explained that he could not announce staff workers' salary increases for fear of accusa­tions from labor unions of trying to undermine efforts at organizing the workers. as happened during the groundskeeper controversy. 
Berberich stated after hearing Bull's comments that the January raise would not make up for the loss of a first semester pay raise for seniors, as they cannot work as many hours second semester. 
He added that he would still try for a pay hike for the first semester. 

with Special Guest. 
AC/DC 
SATURDAY SEPT. 30 8P.M. 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
festival seating on floor $ 8.50£ reserved seats$ 8.50 and S7.50 on sale now at ACC Box office 
~ 
........................ .............·-·......~ 
refused to order the strikers back to work without assurances there would be no reprisals. 
The 42-state strike has tied up shipments of autos, food, coal and other vital freight shipments, forced some worker layoffs due to parts shortages, and stranded thousands of daily rail commuters. 
''This will take the railroac workers back to the job," Carter said. "If there is opposition to thh action then I would not hesitate to go to federal court to enforce it." 
Fred Kroll, president of the striking clerks union, said in a statement following the president's announcement that the union "will determine its course of future action on the basis of the nature of the government's guarantee of a variety of protection for all railraod workers on the Norfolk & Wes­tern.'' 
The nationwide strike begar Tuesday when the union extended its 80-day strike against the N&W to most other major carriers. 
Carter ordered an end to the­walkout under emergency powers provided by the National Railwa~ Labor Act. 
Labor Secretary Ray Marshal announced earlier that governmen intervention was expected, tellin!: reporters that his efforts to ha"' the parties negotiate an agreemen had failed. 
The Norfolk and Western Rail way and the Brotherhood of Rail­way and Airline Clerks "have beet unable to reach an agreemen during the past 26 hours." saic' Marshall. 

{Zej:\"",_Norlh o1 NOTRE DAME or u.s. 31 No. 277-152~ 
Slctrl~ JEff I £:r~l~t~t t 
WI~ 
fAOO!\H Is this any vvay
FAWCETT-, 
Mi\JC}QB to begin a love 
OWTIM 
SOME affair? 
FRIDAY 6:45-9:00 
KILLED11ER9
-SAT. SUN.· 1:45-4:10 6:45-9:00 
11U0Bl\ND-ft 'pc
-PG-L-···------~
""'COlu,.e••••ctooAHoNOVSTA!lS ""' Pktures 
WMk D1ys 7:C»-9:30 Sit.& Sun. Z:D0-4:110-1:1»-1:110-10:111 SPECIAL FRI. SAT. 
MIDNITE SHOWS REDUCED PRICE 

_.4.___ _.t.a..Jhueii!....·....Jiol!.lbiiUiilstlliiiell.rv..IJiijeu.r_·______:_f:..:rid=.:a:.!y.!...., September 29, '1'971f~~ 
~---·-__-·Student Government sponsors Third World Chilean movie
C~ERT 
dmg the United States through the to another prison for 6 months.''
by Mary Ann Wissel 
CIA. The U.S. poured millions into •'The remaining 15 months of my it -it is a shameful, shameful imprisonment was in Villa Grimal
~LCLARK 
To Antonia Bellalta and Roberto thing," he stated. di. My mother learned of my Castillo, "The Battle of chile" ts Castillo went to a high school in location and asked the police for my 
&fRIEN~ 
not just another documentary film Chile that is run by the Congrega­release. They responded that they coming to Notre Dame. Instead, tion of the Holy Cross. He worked could not release me yet because I 
~~ SAT, SEPT. 30 
this film is part of theit personal with the church there and aided was I was a danger to national ..::fr i., Sept. ~-8 pm 
history-and a part ofhile's history. with projects. Immediately after security," Castillo stated. Notre Dame Library Aud. 
Bellalta and Castillo, who are the coup took over, the government Castillo has been in the United 
both Chilean students at Notre took over the high school. States close to two years now. "I
(Donations will be taken) 
Pr•tenled by THE SPIRITUAL ROCK of Notre D11me 
Dame, spoke yesterday to a panel Castillo said he vividly remem­appreciate the fact that ND-SMC consisting of faculty and students, bers the period in Chile followir.g students have the opportunit' to in regard to Chile and the showing the coup. see this film and understand •. hat of the film on campus. "At 1 a.m. on December 12, we went through in Chile,'' he 
"The Battle of Chile' is one of 1973, the secret police of Chile said. the films in the Third World Film (DINA) came to my house and took Bellalta said, "The ND-SMC Festival which focuses on Latin me as a prisoner. After a jeep ride, community should take this chance American countries this month. I was taken to a house and tortured. to inform themselves of some of the Student Government's Third World I had two ribs broken, underwent international affairs the U.S. is in. Awareness Project and the Cen ~r electric shocks and was beaten," They should also participate in the for Experiential Learning (CEL), Castillo said. power of international pressure. If along with other groups, sponsor The DINA kept asking me about we all work together, find creative the film festival. certain Holy cross priests I had ways to respond to the injustices in 
Michael Francis, director of worked with. They also asked me Chile." Graduate Studies, stated, "Chile to identify persons who were my Fr. Don McNeill, director of the was, historically speaking, one of acquaintances," he stated. CEL, ccmmented, "Most of us the oldest democracies in the world Castillo continued, "I was re­don't ima~ine that son.eone here until the overthrow of·the govern­leased in January of 1974. In 1975, (maybe sitting next to us in class) ment. It is ironic that the coup that I began studying at the Catholic could have gone through the suffer­took over on Sept. 11, 1973 was University of Chile. One day while ing seen in this film." taking over in the name of 'democ­on the campus, I was forced into a The film has won many awards 
car with three men from the DINA. Grand Prize the "President Pinochet's take-over I was again held prisoner for 15 Grenoble International Film Festi­
****************************** racy for the people.''' including the at
I TIMM PARTY STORE I 
was aided by many factors, inclu-days of torture. Then I was moved val in 1976. "The Battle of Chile" will be
*# OPEN:MON-SAT 9am-11pm :* 
shown in Washington Hall on Sunday at 2 p.m. and at 7 p.m. and
* SUNDAY12noon-11pm * 
on Monday at 7 p.m. After each 
showing, an informal discussion of 
the film will be held.
! BEERSALE ! 
277-1691
I 3114 S.11 ST. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
Junior Class MEN'S HAIR STYLING SALON
* 1 Block North of Stitt Line on U.S. 31 * 
holds
****************************** 

semiformal
complete
FAITH UNITED mETHODIST CHURCH 
The Junior Class Semiformal will 
E. Ewing at So. High 
be held tonight at the Century Center, from 9 to 2. "Britches"
South S.nd, Indiana 
will provide the music. Julia Perry, Tony Aquilino and 

8:30-5:00 
WORSHIP, SUNDAYS 10:45 am 
Bill Floriano, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Juniors will also
TRANSPORTATION AVAILABLE 
provide music throughout the eve­ning. They will play selections
CHURCH VAN PICK-UP LIBRSRY CIRCLE 
from Peter, Paul and Mary, Neil
10:00 am Each Sunda)j 
Young and some of their own compositions.
Tele~hone 288-1777 ot 291-4872 8:30-5:00 
Due to mechanical difficulties (lack of a motor) the riverboat on St. Joe's River will not be running. According to Marie Bradley, Saint
277--1691
FREE HAIR SERVICE 
Mary's Junior Class President,
lower level of Queen's Castle 
there will be extra munchies and a 
$5 rebate at the door to all persons
for men & women • 
private entrance 
pr·~senting a ticket. 
We are taking applications for Models for advanced educational workshop. 
THENAZZ IT'S LIVE!!!! 
Cutting provided by co-Designers of 
MICHAEL & CO 
FRI: !DISCO AT THE NAZZ' 
Apply in person 
(If that's what you're Into •••) corner of Edison & St. Rd. 23 
SAT: GREG HULL 9:30-??? (12 string guitarist 
Y2 mile East of campus. 
liiG~GO»DR& JPaG•aaa 

~8®® DJ®&11ID~~ w®rn~~ 
::L®CD.fi~il®~ 1r® ll3rl lP<ID~~LiliD CID~ ~illll lrffi®~~ W®®lli~ CID!F 
& 
• 
lL.firFCID:B~UJ~rl ~~ 'f/a®CID ~'Cri&!ID.i1~ :i'mCBill~Q 

11&GW JP&G11'68JI DGJI.iv»ll8e eS ceo~ lFCID®~illtJ.L ~ilCDrro::m~~ lFCIDill IPil~~~ill'\!JlEi'CE}ill 
•s ~rru, ~®~ce co®~comrn~ ·~ucomrm~~ 
eu ~cornm~ wE '"'1r !\Wu:trn:r~ ~ co®un:prc,m --~® ~ rn®AfP"ICO®~ QMea w~com
. 
·.
' 
eurn®AiP"ICO®X> oM"ce ~ 

-. 
• 
~~\If:IDII~~~ il"~Q llilm~~!frn:Bl!W 

•ll 
:PfiCO~~CE}lE l:Plmlli rFimille:KID~ 



' 
.. 
.. ·­


Fri~y, September 29, 1978 the observer 
5 
, 
... 
• 
• •  •  ''  •  Joe Frazier Former~ Chomp ·.  

• 
• 
• 
.. 
.· 
.· 
*The Observer Student Righ~ Forum 
an  independent newspaper serving  Box Q  
the  notre  dame  and  saint  mary's  Notre Dame  
community  Ind.  46556  
The Observer is published by students of  the University of  

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opmions on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Ed1tor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Execut1ve Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Ros(•mary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor\ Editor Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor Ann Cales News Editor M1ke Lewis News Editor D1ane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Bnen Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
DoL'5 Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin  Production Manager  
john Tucker  Business Manager  
Bob Rudy  Advertising Manager  
Kevin Manion  Circulation  

Friday, September 29, 1978 
commentary 
There is going to he another day.... 
======michael kammerdiener 
Perhaps I am sickened because my childhood was not sprinkled with light doses of it, hardening for the future as a vaccine does against the onslaught of disease. Perhaps, in my naivete, I believed that it was a problem my parents' generation had struggled with and handled, leaving their children to the pursuit of solutions to lesser crises. But I am finally so moved to anger, so utterly disgusted, that I will no longer hide behind a veil of anonymity, no longer quietly swallow my indignation, no longer stand guilty of lending tacit approval to a mindset which I totally abhor. 
I speak of the blatantly racist attitude which is all too common amongst the allegedly intelligent group of individuals who attend this university. I have been witness to such appalling displays of human callousness and ignorance as I never thought possible. I could not conceive of such narrow-mindedness and inhumanity in my wildest dreams, and yet I find that it permeates the attitude of many individuals here. 
Allow me to present just a few examples to illustrate my point: A clever little jingle in which one person says, "The only good nigger ... " to which another replies, " ...is a dead nigger"; the inevitable comments, while watching a televised sports contest, regarding the predominance of blacks on ~hichever f~tball or basketball teams are playing; the tenston surroundtng the Bookstore game of a couple years ago which pitted Partem<?'s all-white team against Knight's all-black team; the surge of rehef from the predominantly white crowd when Paterno's team emerged victorious· the incident on the shuttle bus last spring; "I keep mine in a glass ~ase at home and water them once a week." This, I regret to say, is only a small sampling of the events I've seen and comments I've heard. 
Of course, there are the explanations, the justifications, the qualifications. "He grew up in a black neighborhood, went to a black high school." "I don't mind blacks, it's niggers I can't stand. There's a difference, you know." "There's nothing wrong with a black dating a white, but you can be damned sure my daughter will never go out with a black man." "I may call them niggers, but I don't mean anything by it." Pure and simple inanity. aH. of it,· so utterly ridiculous that it needs no rebuttal. The arguments defeat themselves. 
1had considered that this statement might be written in a spi~t <;>f hope, appealing to the reason and good will of those to whom tt ts directed. The time for such an appeal has unfortunate~y passed, however. I say to you instead: Grow up. Open your m.md~, '?l?en your hearts and realize that the h~tred you foster IS hmtttng yourselves and society in the pursutt of human . fulfil_lment. I challenge you, any one of you, to present you~ own vtews m an open forum, to show the courage to defend your attttude~ beyond t~e safe and comfortable confines of your circle of close. fri~~ds. It IS only fear or absence of conviction which moves an tndtvtdual to don a mask whatever form that mask might ·take. 
•'There is going to be another day,'' proph.esie~ C~icken George as held a badly whipped and beaten Kunte Ktnte m hts arms. Such hope, such determination, such vision for a man who had bee~ shackled his entire life. Indeed, there will be another day, and tt will come in spite of all you do to oppress and den~ a part of the human race. The attitudes to which you cling, the unjust structures you perpetuate, all will fall, unless .you .choose to su~ender them of your own volition. The outcome is mevttable; the chmate of change -peace or confrontation -is yours to decide. 
• .. . .. . .. . 
Questions Philosophy 
The Student Rights Forum was both a 
success and a failure. It failed to provide an 
orderly session where specific questions 
were met with concrete answers. The forum 
succeeded, however, because it gave stu­
dents a chance to air their gripes, because it 
showed the student governnient representa­
tives how students feel about these issues, 
and because it pointed out what steps should 
be taken to solve student dissatisfaction. 
The two most discussed topics last night 
were the sexuality code and parietals. the 
philosophy behind these regulations should 
be investigated. The regulations of Du Lac 
are based on the University being a 
voluntary community. When students chose 
to come here, they agree to abide by the 
rules of the community. However, the 
introduction to these rules states: 
At the University, as in the nation and the states, generally accepted values and man­ners are embodied in rules and regulations. Students are required to abide by them, as they are expected to abide by the federal and state l~ws, but also to criticize and help improve them year by year. 
At present, there is neither a mechanism 
by which students may improve the laws, 
nor great interest expressed by the adminis­
tration to accept student recommendations. 
Students who make the decision to come to 
Notre Dame find their lifestyles and morals 
dictated to them. Students have no 
"legislative" power. They cannot "im­
prove" the community unless working 
through a representative body. 
And the .only representative body which 
exists for this purpose -the Campus Life 
Council (CLC) -is ineffective. In the one 
semester of its existence the CLC has made 
several proposals to the administration 
concerning improvement of student life. 
Seven of these proposals were not acted 
upon by the administration and were filed 
away without sufficient reason ·given for 
their rejection. The CLC's power to 
recommend was proven impotent; and 
student support and CLC motivation failed. 
Adion must be taken to make the 
administration's philosophy more than just 
an idealistic but ignored policy. If the 
administration is genuinely interested in 
student input, if they sincerely want 
students "to improve them (the rules) year 
by year," they wi II heed what was said at 
the Student Rights Forum and provide an 
effective vehicle for students to institute 
change. If not, the university must stop 
hiding behind a hypocritical policy. 
Shows Need for Change 
Prior to last night's Student Rights Forum, no one expected parietals to be the main topic of discussion. But parietals were on center stage, and, in view of the strong student discontnet expressed last night, action should be taken immediately to alter the University's parietal code. 
When questioned on the topic, Dean of Students James Roemer divorced parietals from the sexuality regulations. Dean Roemer said parietals were designed to protect students' privacy and to provide quiet hours. If this is a true representation of the purpose of parietals, there is no reason why the rule should apply at a university level. As with quiet hour policies, each section in each hall should be able to decide what its parietals are. 
As it stands now, there is tension between students' social development and their need for privacy. Parietals are an attempt to resolve this conflict. But, because of the great diversity in the student population, a university regulation is inadequate. It does not consider that the opinions of individual students differ greatly. And until students are able to decide their own policies, the tension will continue. 
Opponents might say that individual decisions would create inequality. But, as it stands now, there is gross inequality in enforcement of parietals. In some dorms, it is well known that parietals can be broken regularly, while in other dorms, rectors, and security, bang on doors after the "magic hours." 
If the level of decision making for parietals is lowered to the hall level, students would have to be more responsible for both following and enforcing parietals. To confront an offender would be protecting the interest of the group. If the offense persisted, it would be up to the group to take it before the hail judicial board. 
The time has come to give students the responsibility to decide how their lives should be structured. If the language in Dulac concerning a "democratic communi­ty'' is not just empty rhetoric, restructuring the parietals code is the perfect opportunity to prove it. 
OBSERVER 
EDITORIALS 
====P. 0. Box Q==== 
Dear Editor: 
On Sept. 26, The Observer, in covering the CLC meeting, quoted me as saying that ''this was the first year that DuLac was the work of the Dean of Students." I would like to elaborate on that remark because the cold statement does not relfect the context in which it was made, and because it impugns the integrity of a man whom I highly respect, a man who, I believe, desires most to protect the rights of students. 
I made the remark based on consultation with a reliable source who stated that the 1978-79 DuLac was not the work of SLC. But neither he nor I meant that Dean Roemer had arbitrarily changed DuLac. I should have gone to Dean Roemer and asked who was responsible for the changes, and why they were made. I have now done what should have been done earlier, spolen to Dean Roemer and am convinced that the changes. were the 1'esult of.SLC:: · · 
In fme, I did not say that Dean Roemer was responsible for the changes in this year's DuLac because I truly believe that he ~as not responsible, and I pubhcly apologize for any hurt I've caused this good man. 
Rev. Marlo Pedl 
Dear Editor: 
Each year seems to bring an increased number of men to Notre Dame who respect women athletics and ignore the old social stigma 
imposed  on  serious  ''female  
jocks".  
I  would  like  to  commend  the  
freshmen  men  on  the  attitude  

towards women athletes you have demonstrated this semester. The wisecracks and smirks we received in previous years have become words and smiles of encourage­ment. When you want to take over a basketball court, now you ASK us instead of ASSUME we are willing to give it.qp. · ' ~ :_ ·. 
You are no longer amused by our weightlifting, for you understand that we, like you, want our bodies healthy and trim. You know'1ttat we take our football as seriously as you take yours and you no longer laugh at us from the sidelines. You jog with us and show an interest in our progress. 
You are not disgusted when we sweat, for you know passivity and lack of strength are not ideals of femininity. You are patient coaches of the skills we were never given the chance to learn. Unlike some men, whose fragile egos do not permit is, you even compliment us on the prowess we display. You are not indignant that we prefer to play our own games rather than cheer at yours. 
You realize that we, too, can receive benefits such as pride and self-respect from sports. 
We look forward to the day when our, as yet, undiscovered physical poteLtial is fully realized. Ifothers learn from you, who want women to experience the thrill and challenges of competition, then there is hope for women's athletics. 
-Reaee Leachten 
MarR)'Jll'bomaueft. 
"1 
My address is listed belo~ So 
anyone caring to write can send a 
letter to that address and I'll get it. 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Anyone that does write to me can feel free to write about anything
P.O.Box Q 
and ask any questions that theyThe Former may have. I'll be glad to answer all 
Number One 
Dear Editor: 
To the FORMER #l student body in the nation 
Read the headline again. Who 
us? Yes, we were silenced by a few 
hundred Michigan fans. If those 
few hundred are any kind of 
representation as the Michigan 
support, then they must be the #1 
student body. 
But wait, a few hut:Jdred Miss­
ouri fans have a claim to the same 
title, since they also silenced the 
form(r #1 student body. 
1963 was the last time we lost 
two games in a row. When was the 
last time an offensive lineman at 
N.D. had to plead for support by raising his arms? Sure the cheers came, until he lowered his arms to block. Football players can't block and tackle with their arms raised in an effort to rally 8,000 apathetic students!But let's not blame our­selves; it's much easier to blame the coach, or the players, or the weather. 
The week before Michigan 
comes to N.D.: music blazing 
from windows, excitement in the 
air, the band rehearsing the great­
est of all fight songs. Right? 
WRONG! The question wasn't 
where your seats are for the 
greatest matchup of the football 
season, but rather, where your 
seats are for the Yes concert. 
Every college has rock concerts--as 
well they should--but only one has 
the N.C.A.A. National Champion 
Football team. 
Tradition has it that George 
Gipp's ghost haunts the opposing 
team when they step into the 
stadium. Last week the ghost was 
turning over in Gipp's grave. 
What about Purdue? Jim Waclawlk 
Michigan superior? 
Dear Editor: 
After witnessing last Saturday's daytime nightmare, 1 was inspired to prose by the rays emanating from the Golden Dome. 
After the rather disheartening loss to the Wolverines this past weekend, I really wondered how the Irish could so thoroughly beat a team and yet trail when the clock ran out. Was Michigan really a superior team? I doubt it. Did ND get homejobbed in its own stadium by the crew of Big Ten officials? No way. Did Dan Devine fail to have his charges properly prepared? Ridiculous. Did the fair-weather Notre Dame alumni and students fail the team? Possibly; especially since a large number of these so-called sup­porters were too drunk by the fourth quarter to know who was winning. 
Anyone who knows anything about college football must realize that the better team did not emerge victorious from that Saturday Afternoon Debacle. 
According to David Israel, ND could lose the rest of its games unless some radical changes are made. Mr. Israel doesn't even know about the price of a draft at Remember the words of Ara Corby's! How can he claim to know Parseghian after his 1964 team lost anything about college football a National Title to Southern Califor­when he lacks such basic know-nia in the closing minutes, "We ledge? Anyway, his column was so won like Notre Dame men for 9 poor that I shouldn't have bothered games now we will lose like Notre to devote these four sentences to Dame men.'' Last year we won like his enlightenment. Notre Dame men and I guess this 
Rick Leach thinks that beating year we must share our glory but I Notre Dame is the epitome of hope not our pride. To beat a Notre college football. That statement Dame team connotes beating a was fairly accurate, but it w_~~~n~o'-'-t_._go=od, stong.-never say die team. entirely correct. Notre Dame is Let's show the world that we, the college football. Last Saturday's people of Notre Dame, still have game was important, but not as our pride despite {0-2). Let's dig in important as Purdue, Pitt, MSU, a little harder next week. SC, etc. ND attracts national Shaun P. Mulligan attention for every game it plays. The Irish play Purdue in another tough game next week, and the 
Dangerous
Vegas oddsmakers will probably make ND the favorite again. Who does Michigan play next week? Duke? Does anyone reaJiy care? 
Can the men in green bounce Antics back? Of course. With leaders like Dave Huffman and Joe Montana, 
Dear Editor: the squad of Our Lady is due to Regarding the two studentsexplode. With rowdy fan support, (better yet juveniles) at last Fri­sober and otherwise, the Irish just day's pep rally who took it uponmay demonstrate that they are the themselves to make a spectacle ofbest team in the country. After all, themselves, I commend you. I'mthis is not a team of physical speaking of the childish, deliberate 
education and communication 
throwing of toilet paper rolls in anmajors. 
attempt to do bodily harm to theI'll be somewhere in the stadium cheerleaders of Notre Dame.
screaming my lungs out in the hope I speak not of the harmlessthat Devine and company will make throwing of toilet rolls into the air
liars out of these nonbelievers. I with the purpose of unravelling the hope some real ND fans will be roll, but rather a baseball-likethere too. See you at kickoff. 
throw. The object of these students
Joseph o•eonnor 
missles was supposedly the lepre­chaun mascot. This in itself is ridiculous, but to hit Mr. Leon Hart in the head, and two Notre Dame
Pride at 
cheerleaders in the eyes, is absurd and equally dangerous. I know of these events because I repri­
Notre Dame -manded the perpetrators. To these students and any others who partake in this deplorable Dear Editor: folly, I request an end to it at once. I write this immediately follow­Let's enjoy the Purdue rally and ing our loss on Saturday afternoon. stop the nonsense of the last rally. 
I am in a state of numbness. In To the Notre Dame cheerleaders, other similar situations, I could say I regret that Notre Dame we lost because of this or that, but students would do such a thing, today I can't pinpoint any one and I sincerely hope this is not a thing. Every player on the team representation of other students' appears to be the best qualified for attitudes at Notre Dame. Let's their job, but for some reason the respect the cheerleaders and what spirit of victory is absent. That they stand for. entity of confidence, luck and Mike Shanley ability seems to have left South Bend. After the great rebound last year, we are back in a state of Courteous doubt, searching for answers to the question,. "What is wrong?" 
I propose that the only thing that is wrong is our mental attitude. We Treatment proved last year that desire and pride pay off, why can't we prove it Dear Editor: again. Granted a National Cham­On behalf of myself and all of the pionship is, for all practical pur­members of The University of poses, lost; but the season isn't Michigan Marching Band I would over. We still have nine tough like to take this opportunity to games left. Only a loser rolls over thank all of the members of the and dies. Notre Dame student body for the 
Look at today's game. Did the marvelous, courteous and most fans leave? No, with less than enthusiastic reception which they three minutes in the game, people tendered us at the Michigan versus wanted the offense to score once, Notre Dame game this Saturday. just for pdde. Afterward, many Despite the intense rivalry of the students stayed around and suf­game, we certainly felt at home in fered through what seemed to be your stadium despite the many an eternity of "Hail Michigan" to stories we had heard about things listen to the ''Notre Dame Victory in the past. Your stadium people March.'' That took real class and were magnificent and helped us in pride. I was impressed, but then I every way possible. realized that this University is built To you we say a great big thanks on pride. In fact, pride has made to the wonderful student body of Notre Dame, NOTRE DAME, and Notre Dame. We are hoping your it will continue to make Notre band comes to Michigan so we Dame, NOTRE DAME. might reciprocate in a like manner. 
May the Notre Dame fight song 
and the Victors continue to sound 
loudly through many other thrilling 
Michigan versus Notre Dame 
football contests. 
George Cavender, Conductor 
The University of Michigan 
Marching Band 
Off Campus 
Bus Service 
Dear Editor: 
At least 600 students who live 
off-campus at Campus View and 
Notre Dame apartments, the cen­
tral off-campus housing units, have 
no dependable, efficient transpor­
tation to and from the university. 
These students often find walking 
to campus both inconvenient and 
unsafe, particularly in the evening. 
Women refuse to walk through the 
lonely field to Campus View and 
through the high crime district 
near Notre Dame avenue late at 
night. Those who have no cars are 
often isolated in their apartments, 
or dependent upon roommates and 
friends for rides. This situation 
makes it difficult for them to use 
the library and to participate in 
student activities. 
Most universities with a large off-campus population such as Notre Dame, provide bus service to and from campus. With a slight bus schedule alteration, the Notre Dame administration could arrange a shuttle route looping around the Notre Dame apartment complex to Campus View before continuing its usual route to the Saint Mary's campus. 
The administration would need only to make minor changes in the present system. The bus need stop at the apartments only during the evening. This change would not intefere with the scheduled stops timed to coincide with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's classes. Also, the administration would need to schedule only one stop per hour at the apartments, altering just slightly the two hourly stops at St. Mary's. Excess cost would be minimal to the university. 
The re-scheduling would require no extra driving if done to coincide with the deletion of a few Saint Mary's stops and most im­portantly, the extra gas expendi­tures would be absorbed in additional student fares. 
Marcia Kovas 
Prisoner 
makes Plea 
Dear Editor: 
At the present time I am incar­cerated at the Columbus Correc­tional Facility here in Columbus, Ohio. I have been in prison for six years now. Don t have family or friends to visit or write. 
What I am wondering is if you would print this letter in the school newspaper and invite people to send letters to me. I would kve to hear from anyone and hopefully start up lasting pen-pal relation-· ships. 

letters. Thank you. 
Stanley P. McMains 
Box 511 #1359R2 
Columbus, Ohio 43816 
Interhall Safety 
Dear Editor: 
The National Collegiate Athletic 
Association's requirement for new. 
specialized football helmets for its 
players is only a small step forward 
in the effort to eliminate injuries. 
The problem lies not only within 
the structure of the helmet, but 
within the incorrect ideas on hitting 
fundamentals. 
As a participant in interhall 
football at Notre Dame and as a 
former high school player, I have 
not only witnessed but expe{ienced 
the spinal pain that occurs from 
hitting with the top of the helmet. I 
have seen players receive concus­
sions by using their heads as 
battering rams. I believe that the 
shoulder block, advocated by for­
mer coach Ara Parseghian, is the 
safest and most effective hitting 
method. 
Unfortunately, safe hitting tech­
niques are not taught in interhall 
football. The University postponed 
the start of the interhall season 
because the required helmets had 
not yet arrived. To further prevent 
injuries, the University should 
institute a clinic for interhall 
coaches and players. This clinic 
would teach them the advantages 
of the shoulder block and would 
explain the physiological damage 
resulting from improper hitting. 
We are committed to take every 
precaution concerning interhall 
footbaJI because we are dealing 
with human lives. The paralyzation 
of the National Football League's 
Darryl Stingley serves as a bitter 
example of the improbable event 
becoming reality. I believe that the 
acquisition of the new helmets and 
instruction of proper football funda· 
mentals will help prevent such an 
occurrence at Notre Dame. 
Philip Russo 
Keep Enrollment Small 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter critical of the University of Notre Dame not because I am an enemy of it but because I care so much for it. Recently news has been published that the University has acquired a donor for the building of a new dormitory or dormitory-cafeteria comptex to be located between the Flanner and Grace Towers and the Library. Our Board of Trustees' motives were either to prevent overcrowding or to place Notre Dame into the big university category. 
I think this would be a drastic mistake in either case. Our present overcrowding situation does not merit such an ambitious solution and becoming a big university would lead us into the obscure world of big college enrollments. I would like to see Notre Dame small because I think our smallness is what makes us so distinct. 
The reason I chose Notre Dame was because of its size and the prestige which is accociated with it. Schools such as Harvard. DePaul. and Yale have resisted the expan­sion bug to remain small schools in a land of giants, and have obtained an amazing deal of success. People are always astonished when I tell them that Notre Dame's enrollment is 6800 undergraduates. Their usual guess is between 15.000 and 
25.000 students. I enjoy their expressions of disbelief. and take pride in the fact that we are this small yet we contribute so much in the fields of education and athletics. As a student and future alumnus. I feel it is necessary that we retain our identity. and not become a member of the big university crowd. Jim Bnatz • the observer Fricbly, September 29, 1978 
letters to a lonely God 
Pooh-Bear to The Dearest Girl 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
The dearest girl in all the world has just walked me home from Darby's Place, my arm encircling her and her arm encircling me, as though we were regular sweet­hearts instead of an odd couple of differing generations, like Lear and his daughter, or Heidi and her grandfather. The Indiana moon watched us from a distant sky, a dowager aunt spying from an attic window; and my dog, Darby O'Gill, raced around us in all directions as though he thought I had recruited the drarest girl into our house· hold as his mu(h-needed mother. When we hugged each other goodbye, though it was only four a.m., the morning stars jtarted singing together as if the sun had :Jeen lighted early to see the oddity of September being tender with April. 
I hope the dearest girl in all the world doesn't mind my calling her a girl. I could call her a woman, if she insists on it, but there is a lyricism in girlishness like a 10\·esong in springtime. Does the year, being summer, never wish to be April­young? Does a girl, becoming a woman, outgrow the language that praises her as promising, like a rosebud growing in a queen-rose garden? The dearest girl is too full of a woman's ripeness to be considered a child, but playfully I like to call her a girl, somewhat dearer than all the rest. 
I'm grateful to the dearest girl for not considering me too old or too ordained for her hugs. I try not to hug secularly or with passion; and though I am an experienced bugger, I try not to make hugging a habit. A priest needs hugging at least three times a day; a girl needs to be hugged as often as her moods change. A girl needs an older man she can hug like a grownup teddy bear, and chaplains have been the teddy bears of campus life since the days of Father Sorin. A boy shoots up without mystery like a weed; but a girl's growth is full of secrets, and teddy bears keep secrets better than anyone. Teddy bears are not very smart, but they can under­stand tears and recognize pain. Teddy bears are loyal; they stick around after the crowd has left, and they are someone warm to hang onto when you're not sure of yourself. Teddy bears are creatures you don't have to take home to dinner. They just want to share your world like the sun and moon, and they need a hug at the end of a walk. 
As Pooh-bear to the dearest girl, I watch her as she moves through the years between moppetry and marriage, a mystery of strength and grace: a gamine either wistful or teasing; an urchin utterly adorable with clumsiness; a flirt meaning no harm who weeps if she preaks your heart; a tomboy full of mischief; a lady who dances wearing flowers in her hair; a woman waiting for love to light candles in her face. 
Now Pooh-bear sees that in her Senior year, the dearest girl is holding hands with a boy. Pooh-bear is not jealous any more than a father is jealous, though it is obvious that the dearest girl is falling in love. The shadows have been chased from the corners of her mouth, and sadness no longer intrudes its questions into eyes that have wondered so often. 
Pooh-bears are the kept creatures, completely spoiled, who know nothing of being practical or looking after themselves. That is why the dearest girl comes to Darby's Place, knowing that Darby and I must be seen safely home before the night-germs find we are out. Who buttons Pooh-bear's coat on the coldest days of the winter? Who cheers Pooh-bear up when he feels sorry for himself? Who tells Pooh-bear to stop being grumpy? Who tells Pooh he's a silly old bear in words so sweet they're like honey found in a tree? The dearest girl in the world is my Christopher Robin, keeping me safe in the innocence of her life, in all the ways she's a child. In watching her fall in love, I wonder where a Pooh-bear goes when Christopher Robin has said goodbye to a place and time of enchantment. 
Soon, Pooh-bear will be out of a job of watching. The dearest girl will graduate; and like all teddy bears belonging to the nursery,Pooh-bear will be enshrined on a shelf, and hugged sometimes when the dearest girl remembers to come back. Pooh-bears never cry. They just say: "Well, that is that, Christopher Robin." But on September nights at four a.m., when the morning stars have started to sing, and the sun is hustling the moon from the sky, this Pooh-bear will sometimes whimper. Pooh-bears never said they didn't love the dearest girl in all the world. Pooh-bears couldn't say it, because it wouldn't be true. 
To the dearest girl, I just want to add: "It's been an honor to be your Pooh-bear." 




1n the ~:a1sles w1th lobotom!l by bytnes 
antmat house 
Animal House is ••interesting''. inthe good for social irresponsibility.*t. In a way, that sense of the word because so many people could be the case. The good ~uys trash have so much to say about it, and all the everything, and they dump on mtddle-class more so. since there is essentially so little sensibilities in the process,. By conttast,it 
complexity to deal with. Animal House is a also seems to ·make the point, like Sttatton 
simple movie that uses bask satire. It is an does after receiving the unearned wrath of attack on a certain slice of. middle-class the Omegas (the·rival, ·~·goooy.goody''•frat)~ society through humor, vulgarity .ana asense "Ifwe are the amimals, I'd hate to see what of surrealism. In the ..achievement of this those guys' are." purpose, it is. perhaps insensitive t..) real social concerns, but at least it is very, very funnv. 
Sh~ce ..funny.. is the effect a good comedy seeks to achieve, its measure should be our first criteria. If someone told me before I ~aw ;Animal House that lwould be laughing at a fat kid throwing up on a ~liege dean. I'm not sure that I would have believed him. But. whenlsaw it. 1was laughing.;..{ w.as in lhe aisles in fact. The element of surprise, ladicrousness, ·and audience involvement this movie so frequently employs makes it funny. . 
But there are other areas to consider be­sides the "funny•• factor. and all of those review favorably. Animal House is ~imply an adaptation of ~ood guys versus bad, but rather than weanng white and black bats, the characters are split.into conformi._.ts and non-conformists. k ts a basic conflict that we each face in shaping our personalities, ~enera~ly. at sc~ool. so th~ settmg cf colle~e ts .a logtcal chotce. To hetghten the polanty There are a few ways of viewing this .. First, of the two tfnits; the group characteristics one could say that this is art~ and in order to are exaggerated, which achieves the same be art the creation must make some type of effect as the white hats versus black. When statement about life that is •true/ l do not we see old cowboy movies, we laugh at the agree with the statement that middle-class lack of subtlety involved ..in giving the morality is petty and indicative,·so therefore audience such a conspicuous visual clue. It I do not think that it deserves the rank of art. is symbolism operating on a low level. Such The other view, and the one with which I am operation on a low level is funny, and from most inclined to agree,. is that this. type of 

paul ClaRk anb ChRistian Rock
the very first moments of the film when the .. morality .. " can sometimes be petty and statue of Emil Faber, college founder, is vindicative, .and the film warns us not to take shown standing over the' epitaph it too seriously. The film acts as kind of a ••Y"ou're another.. argument (..We may be
"Knowledge is Good,'' we know that such Paul Clark, a Christian rock artist, is he was. 
low-level operation will be evident through­pretty degenerate but, in your own way, so giving a free concert on Sat., Sept. 30, at Clark, who now lives in Kansas City, is out the film. It is funny to exaggerate. are you). 
8:00 pm, sponsored by a campus ministry an active leader in Agape Fellowship, andA RoJJing Stone writer. Charles Young, has Viewed in this context, Animal House makes called Spiritual Rock. he views his task as bringing encourage­called the villanous conformist characters, us laugh at the point over and over again. 
For the last six years, Clark has been ment, faith and maturity to the body ofparticularly the dean, "a tad too serious." John Belushi is the best 'H know rm a slob actively involved in the development of Christ through music ..Clark admits that heThat ntisses the point entirely. The bad guys so get off my back already" character contemporary gospel music. A former gets discouraged at times, especiallyare made villanous and the good guys are around. All the characters share a thread of leader of a rock group named Rocky "seeing young people come to Christ butmade animal-like for the purpose of express· identity that makes them recognizable as our Mountain Goldrush, Clark has released six 
ing their difference through contrast. In roommates, hallmates, and classmates. The having nothing to be planted into. We fact, one of the most interesting of all the characters are used for all they are worth, albums in the past eight years. don't really have the right to tell people to technical aspects in the movie is the and then they are completed with a report on Like so many young people who were repent and come into the kingdom if there 
make-up used to make the eyes of the bad their histories after their college years at ' disillusioned in the 1960's, Clark's life was is no representation of it in a practical but guys look hollow and sunken. It adds to their Faber. These histories ate abs·ur.dly fittin. g•. filled with an intense search for truth that supernatural environment.'' sinister presence by making their eyes glare and the use of the stop-action-subtitle led down an unending road of drug Junior Pat Mangan, the president of vicious and pronounced (witness the scene in technique is a beautiful mockery of Ameri­overdoses. As a songwriter, Clark became Spiritual Rock, classifies Clark's music as which Niedermeyer addresses his rage to the can Graffiti. \a movie set in the same time unsatisfied ,with songs of a girlfriend, the "soft rock" and judges him to be "an unruly Deltas in the courtroom by whipping period that seemed to glorify the very values mountains, and other exhausted subjects. 
excellent performer wi~h high quality
his head, flashing a sinister glare, and Animal H<>use satirizes. At the point of suicidal desperation in music~" The concert promises to behissing). Animal House is pretty good stuff. We can 
Colorado, Clark received some books from "warm and personal," according toBut what is the poiat of all this contrast? disagree on what the point is and how true it his grandmother which spoke of Jesus Mangan, who feels that the concert is aWhat does this all mean? In order to be is, but the important thin~ is that there is a Christ, and acquired new hope in life. good way for students to experience thegood, a satirist must make use of the point, which makes it satire. The point is Using a rock musical format, Clark began spiritual life at Notre Dame. Any questions derisive laughter he instigates to m_ake a made in a funny way, so it is good satire. If to reveal God's truth to the numerous about Paul Clark or the concert arepoint. It is not all artiface; there must be a you haven't already seen Animal House, it is young people whh were as disillusioned as welcomed by Mangan (8332) any time.
point. Some critics think that the point of playing now at the TQWO and Co~ntry. . this movie is, as one reviewer ut it, ''a call M.k'llust 


Friday, September 29, 1978 the observer 



ilermakers I 
Irish seek first victory of year against Purdue 
As a freshman, Mark Herrmann nearly led the Boilermakers to an upset victory over the Irish last year [photo by Doug Christian]. 
Herrmann to lead Purdue attack 
by Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief 
Reeling from consecutive setbacks to 
Missouri and Michigan, the Notre Dame 
football team takes on Purdue University 
tomorrow afternoon in Notre Dame 
stadium. The Boilermakers, led by the 
passing of sophomore quarterback Mark 
Herrmann, are 2-0 with victories over 
Michigan State and Ohio University. 
Herrmann was disappointing in Pur­
due's opening game against MSU as he 
connected on only seven of 23 pass 
attempts for 85 yards. The Spartans also 
intercepted two of Herrmann's aerials. 
But the Carmel, Ind., native reverted to 
his old form last Saturday against Ohio 
hitting 13 of 23 passes for 233 yards and 
two touchdowns. Last Saturday was the 

first game in Herrmann's collegiate 
career that he was not intercepted. 
Michigan connected on two long passes to beat the Irish last Saturday, but Purdue coach Jim Young believes these pass routes were open only because of the success of the Wolverine ground attack. "Michigan hit two big passes against Notre Dame last week­end, however they hit them because Notre Dame was defending the option. We're not that type of team. Our passing is a different type of attack. Michigan passes off play action and option fakes. That makes it a different game. It wasn't just that Michigan passed, it was because Michigan got Notre Dame playing the run and then threw the ball," Young stated. 
The players whose task it will be to establish the running game are senior tailback Russell Pope and sophomore fullback John Macon. Pope has carried the ball24 times in the 1978 season for a total of 194 yards. That's a gaudy average of 8.1 yards per carry. Macon has churned for 161 markers in 30 carries or 5.4 yards per clip. 
When Herrmann does choose to put the ball in the air, he has a bevy of receivers as targets. His favorite target thus far has been 6-b sophomore tight end Dave Young. This 222 pounder has hauled in six aerials for 64 yards The starting wide receiver is junior Ray Smith, a two-yE>~r letterman. 
Replacing the graduated Reggie Arnold is junior college transfer Mike Harris. Harris has nabbed three passes for a total of 67 yards, including a 46 yard toss for a touchdown. Back-up receiver Bart Burrell.. a high school teammate of Herrmann's at Carmel High School, has seen enough action to have three catches and a 19.3 average per catch. 
The Boilermaker offensive line returns 
junior Steve McKenzie and senior John 
LeFeber from last year's squad. They, 
however, have traded positions: LeFeber 
is now the right guard and McKenzie is 
the right tackle. The center is junior 
Pete Quinn, a n~>n-letterman. The new 
left side of the line is composed by guard 
Dale Schwan and tackle Henry Feil. 
Both Feil and Schwan lettered last 
season. 
Purdue's defense has allowed only 14 points in their first two outings of 1978. Young says of his defense, "Overall it's a quicker defense than a year ago. Certainly, the experience helps, too. The defensive front is stronger physi­cally than last season. And some of the things we're doing defensively are hard to block. 
"But that's true of defense across the country. Defense everywhere is getting to be hard for offenses to block consistently because they do so many different things with varied looks and stunts. It's just hard to have a consistent offense against a lot of the defense in use today in college football." 
The leading defender in Purdue's 5-2 alignment is junior linebacker Kevin Motts. The 6-2, 230 pound graduate of Mishawaka Marian ha~ been in on a team leading 26 tackles, including three for'{legative •,arda~e His backer mate is J~nior Mik'I!'.Marks. __ -­
The top tackler on the defensive line is sophomore defensive tackle Calvin Clark who has been in on 23 stops. Clark is joined up front by tackle Marcus Jackson, nose guard Ken Loushin, and ends Ruben Floyd and Keena Turner. Only Floyd is a senior. 
Safeties Rock Supan and Willie Harris are the returning starters in the secon­dary. Supan is starting for his third year. They will be joined by cornerbacks Wayne Smith and Rick Moss. 
Purdue has allowed only 204 rushing yards and 257 passing yards this season. 
The Irish offense will remain much the same as it has been for the past two games. Joe Montana will be the starting quarterback. Montana went six of ten in the first half against Michigan but 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
Tomorrow afternoon Mark Herrmann will make his debut in Notre Dame Stadium, and he will be trying to finish what he started last September. Thanks to his brilliant passing, Purdue led Notre Dame 24-14 after three quar­ters. But what had been the Mark~ Herrmann Show quickly became the Joe Montana Show, as the Comeback Kid passed Notre Dame to 17 fourth-quarter points and a 31-24 victory. 
But the Boilermakers are flying high with a 2-0 mark, while the Irish are 0-2 for the first time since 1963. That Hugh Devore-coached Notre Dame club finished the season with a 2-7 record. 
After a spectacular freshman cam­paign, Herrmann is now a year older and a year wiser. On the other side of the coin, however, is the fact that he is now a marked man. Herrmann admits that he faces more pressure after his impressive rookie campaign. 
"I think it was a little obvious in the first ~arne (a 21-14 win over Michiga 1 State1'' said Herrma11n. "I didn't plz 1 that well, but last week I settled down a little bit." Herrmann settled down ~nough to 
... .riddle Ohio Univer..sity's :;~<)odarv fo·r 1a slipped to nine of 19 in the second half. 
The running backs will again be Jerome Heavens and Vagas Ferguson, both of whom had over 70 yards rushing against Michigan. Jim Stone could see some action here. From tackle to tackle, the offensive line will read: Tim Foley, Tim Huffman, Dave Huffman, Jim Hautman and Rob Martinovich. Guard Ted Horansky is out with a foot injury. 
Coach Dan Devine should continue his shuttle system at the wide receiver, wingback and tight end positions with Kris Haines, Dave Condeni, Pete Holo­han, Mike Courey, Kevin Hart and Nick Vehr all seein~ action. 
Bob Colic is the defensive leader. Last week he was in on an amazing 26 tackles, 
completions in 23 attempts for 223 yards and two touchdowns. Perhaps the most significant aspect of Herrmann's perfor­mance against the Bobcats, was the fact that he didn't throw an interception for the first time in his 13-game collegiate career. 
Although the natjve of Carmel, Indi­ana, established Notre Dame opponent records for pass attempts (51), comple­tions (24) and passing yards (351) in a single game during last fall's contest, Herrmann was also intercepted four times. 
"I know that I'll have to cut down on my interceptions this year," admitted Herrmann, who saw 29 of his tosses fall into enemy hands a year ago. "But our balance is much better, and I don't think we'll be forced to throw nearly as often. In our first two games, we've only thrown 20 to 25 times a game." 
Purdue's ability to move the ball on the ground will be a critical factor in the outcome of tomorrow's game, according to Herrmann. ''We know that Notre Dame is tough to run against, but we feel that we have to be able to rack up some yardage rushing Ideally, we'd like to pass between 25 and 30 t1mes Satur­day " said Herrmann 
Herrmann isn't quite sure how to view th~ turnfi!x>I.Jt. i~ the tw9 te,am ' records. 
leaving him only five shy of Bob Olsen's career tackle mark of 369. For his performance, Colic was named UPI back of the week. 
Two injuries will alter the starting defensive unit. Defensive end Scott Zettek was hurt late in the Michigan contest and is out this week, and will likely be red-shirted. Safety Joe Restic injured the tendons in his foot and will probably miss the game. Randy Harrison will man his backfield slot. 
Tomorrow's contest is the 50th meet­int between the two schools. Notre Dame leads in the series 30-17 with two tie games. The game is scheduled to begin at 1:30 EST. It will be televised locally on WNDU and broadcast by WSND. 
The Boilermakers are listed in the number 20 position in this week's Associated Press poll, whtle the Irish have fallen out of the Top 20 for the first time since 1975 
"I don't really know how they'll take it," said Herrmann, who was second in the nation in passing in 1977. "They could be very mad, and just itching for a win, or they could be down. But if I had to guess, I'd say they're probably a little bit angry.'' 
But above all, the Irish had better be ready. Herrmann threw for 351 yards against the Notre Dame defense in 1977--before Luther Bradley, Ted Burg­meier, Ross Browner and Willie Fry graduated. And last week, Michigan's Rick Leach, never accused of being in the same extraordinary class as Herr­mann, burned the Irish for three second-half touchcdown passes. 
Herrmann insisted tha the Boiler· makers will be ready. "We have a tremendous att1tude right now. Every­body has a great feeling," said Herr­mann "We realize that if we are 3-0 after this week, it could be a real b1g season II 
And if Purdue is 3-0 after th1s week, it can only mean one thing That Notre Dame will be 0-3 for the fir.st time io.its. 75-ear football history· ··'­

• 
the observer Fricby, September 29, 1978 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
The sweat from the just completed 24-0 rout over Ohio University had not even had a chance to dry off from his face before Purdue quarterback Mark Herrmann voiced his feelings about playing Notre Dame in South Bend. 
"I saw two games at Notre Dame stadium while I was in high school and I know firsthand how wild their fans can be. It is obvious they can be beaten at home but it is sure going to be a difficult task. I am looking forward to the game and I know it is going to be a big one for 
Jim Browner 
[Christian-photo] 
both teams." 
Make no mistake about it, tomorrow's clash between the 0-2 Irish and the 2-0 Boilermakers is going to be a big one. Herrmann comes into the game with a renowned reputation as a passer and after three second half touchdown passes last Saturday gave Michigan a 
· 28-14 win over ND, many people began to question the Irish pass defense. But that was a different game at a different time under different circumstances. And if Randy Harrison, Jim Browner and Dave Waymer have anything to say about it, the Irish will be back in the win column come Saturday "Herrmann is a pure typepasserand he is very good at it. Our job will be to stay with their receivers and hope our defensive line can get to him," noted Harrison. "Herrmann is an excellent drop back passer who looks off well to his receivers. That is he'll look at his secondary receiver and then pass to his primary target. We will just try our best to hold off their receivers and pick off a few," said Waymer. "Herrmann is a good spot passer but he is not good without capable receivers and Purdue has them. He likes to throw the long pass and we will just have to concentrate and stay with the recei­vers," noted Browner. · The Irish will be looking more to the 

Down the Boilermakers! 
Down the Boilermakers I Editor: Ray O'Brien 
Layout and 
Design: Deb Dahrling John Calcutt 
Defensive secondary readies for Herrmann 


passing game of Purdue but there will be a definite difference between the Michi­gan game and the passing style of Mark Herrmann. 
"Tomorrow's game should be differ­ent from the Michigan contest with respect to the two quarterbacks, Rick Leach and Herrmann. Leach ran the option a lot and being a bit overly aggressive with stopping Leach on the run, our deep men were pulled away," noted Irish defensive back coach Jim Johnson. "When it seemed he would run he passed and that enable them to score on those three passes in the second half. 
''Mark Herrmann is a drop back passing quarterback so we should not have to contend with guessing on the option. He is still a great passer, though, and it will by no means be an easy task to hold down their passing game.'' 
Jim Browner has been a starter in the · Irish defensive backfield for three years 
"Herrmann does not scramble as much as Leach so we should be able to concentrate on staying back and playing for the pass. I expect they will first try to establish the running game but Herr­mann is just too good a passer not to go to the air a lot. I am expecting at least 30 pass attempts from him," noted the 207-pound senior. 
"This is a big game for both teams, the same way it was last year. It should be a very physical contest and there is a lot of pride involved because we are such big rivals. All we can do is do our best to stay with their receivers and hope we can get to Herrmann," continued the Indi­ana native. 
Dave Waymer was on the opposite side of the field last year when the Irish met Purdue but notes what a great passer the sophomore is and expects to have his hands full when Herrmann goes to the air. 
"Herrmann is without a doubt a passing quarterback so we will definitely campaigns (the given to the victor in the Purdue/Indiana game, and the Cannon is given to the winner of the Purdue/Illinois matchup.) 


The Shillelagh was donated to "Moose" Krause by the late Joe Mclaughlin in 1957. Mclaughlin was a merchant seaman and devoted Irish fan, who donated the trophy with the 
agreementthat the club be recognized as an annual "spoil" of the Purdue/Notre Dame rivalry that has existed off and on for about fifty years. 
In this, the 50th meeting between the two teams, the Irish lead the annual feud with 30 wins.. Purdue has won seven times in Notre Dame stadium, a rather everyone will get a chance to see me. It will be against a team I've heard about all my I ive. There wiII be a lot of emotion tied up in this game for me." 
** ** ** 
Mark Herrmann: "I've heard a little about the fans in Notre Dame Stadium. I'm sure it'll be a little intimidating. Michigan looked a little shook in the first half last week." 
**
** ** 
Dave Waymer: "Saying the loss of Ross Browner and Willie Fry has hurt us will not do us any good. Talking about it won't get the quarterback down." 
Friday, September 29, 1978 the observer 
"Moose" Krause: "When talking about the Purdue /Notre Dame Series, you can just throw the point-spread out the window." 
** ** ** 
Jim Browner: "some people ex­pect to come out and see us make history by losing and going 0-3. I'd like to disappoint them·." 

because of the tremendous schedule we have ahead of us." 
** **
** 
Joe Montana: "I think this game will help us more than it will hurt us. We've still got nine more games to go and we can win them all. Not many teams in the country have 9-2 records. " 

Montana 


Falstaff 
DRAFT TRUCK TAPPING EQUIPMENT CUPS AND ICE KEG BEER ONLY SOLD AT RETAIL 
( 1 
-------------'---------­
Down the Boilermakers I ND, Purdue to vie for Shillelagh by Gregory Solman impressive statistic, indeed. fourth quarter after Gary Forystek had ever has --and lenny Dawson had Sports Writer broken his collarbone, and leading the successful years against the Irish.Last year was the eleventh time that Irish to two quick touchdowns to clinch Purdue Coach Jack Mollokof won sixNotre Dame had snatched the Shillelagh­The question always arises this time of the Irish squeaker. of ten games he coached against thePurdue has taken it ten times. year: what would a Boilermaker want Irish--more than any other coach canOver the last fifty years, the gamesIf crowd attendance at the matchupwith a Shillelagh? claim.between Purdue and Notre Dame haveplays any factor in the BoilermakersBut for whatever their reasons, the As recently as 1974, the Boilers havedeveloped a rich history. Both teamswanting their Shillelagh back, then theBoilermakers of Purdue want the hon­wrecked havoc on the Irish's standingshave had outstanding quarterbacks andintense rivalry is not surprise. Three ofored walking stick, and tomorrow the in the polls That was the year they camecoaches.Purdue's five largest crowds in history22nd battle for the Shillelagh will into South Bend and left with a 31-20 came to watch the Boilers take on the "Moose" Krause recalls one of thedetermine the trophy case in which it sits victory.Irish. The largest crowd of all-time in earlier Notre Dame/Purdue games infor the next year. Krause recalls the first game playedRossade Stadium--69,795--turned out for which he played. for the Shillelagh, back in 1957. Thethe 1975 classic in Purdue. The Irish • "We were favored by twenty points at Boilermakers defeated the Irish that day, won that one, 71-0, but the Boilers have the beginning of the game," he remem­and the Shillelagh stayed at West not been without revenge over the years. bers, "But as usual you can just throw Lafayette.In fact, only the Trojans of Southern that out the window when talking about "I remember the drive back to SouthCalifornia have defeated the Irish more this series. Sure enough, Noel Kaiser Bend," said Krause: "I was with Joethan Purdue (18 times to 17.) ended up defeating the Irish, 19-0." Mclaughlin, the man who had donated Last year's contest was certainly one Krause also remembers Frank Leahy's the Shillelagh to the schools. We were of the more exciting ones, featuring fourty-eight game winning streak being both very disappointed that we couldn't freshman quarterback sensation Mark snapped by the Boilers. claim the trophy the first year." Herrmann versus Joe Montana, in what Other interesting Purdue/Notre Dame It's in the Irish trophy case now. But would prove to be his first game as the historical highlights include the facts with contests slated until 1990, the newly installed Irish signal-caller. The that quarterback Mike Phipps, when chances are more than good that it will "Monongahela Minuteman" came out with Purdue, defeated the Irish three see its fair share of traveling in the on top, 31-24, entering the game in the times, more than any other quarterback future. They said it: 'I'm ready to win' . Dan Devine: Bo Schembechler: "When you win a John Robinson on the polls: "I think the "We're off to a game like that, you're always ripe for a people who vote these things have noMike Phipps start that none of us letdown...that was Notre Dame we idea what's going on ... and that includes "It's been one of those natural are used to. We've played. Those kids were fired up. And myself. I always pick Penn State high rivalries where the odds simply haven't got a good football now if there's a letdown, well here we because I like Joe Paterno." mattered," commented Notre Dame team. I don't want are with a good team in Duke coming up athletic director Edward "Moose" to make alibis. We on us. It's a real problem .. I'm ** ** ** Krause. "Often times-in fact, quite just haven't gotten nervous." Dan Devine: "One of the toughestoften-the favored team has been upset off to a good year.'' things to guard against is the team** ** ** by the underdog." getting down on itself, especiallyDave Waymer: "I have had enough of For Purdue, the Shillelagh is the Devine because of mistakes and turnovers.losing. Two losses is two too many and I newest of the three spoils of war it We've got to eliminate the mistakes andam sure ready to win one."** ** receives should it win certain annual ** turnovers and concentrate on Purdue.Kevin Motts: ''I'll be going home and Old Oaken Bucket is ** ** ** We can't lose confidence in ourselves  

------------~---------~· 
__......~tu.h.l.le!E...-JoKJb st.31aurv...JI..]Ijarar Friday, September 29, 1978
.... _____ 

r.----------------· 
I THE RRMRDDI
I 
IT"S FRIDAY-SD ENJOY!! I 
1 • Dane• all night ta liv• rack I I and cauntry w••t•rn mu•icI 
• All drink• anly lt.DD I II • Pinball and paal tabl• I • • ND COVER CHARGE I 
lal.a: •lap in Saturday far i I aur •ft•rnaan .Jam ••••ian•-I I cam• •haw your lal•nl. ~ 
I THE RAMRDD Dp•n till !laml lstt S. Michiqan St. _·~ 1I (Dawntawn) ~··i~~~~ 1 
I 28!1-470!1 mu•t b• Zt 1 
~ ------------· 
I 
Shapeup
th 
~ -JN 
e~~ 
student 


Keep your shape in a shape to be studied. 
Turn to the fun of Sports Illustrated Court 
Clubs for special racquetball 'n recreation. 
Play vigorous singles or doubles on one of our climate-conditioned racquetball courts. If you're in the mood for a little competition, play in one of our fall leagues. 
Afterwards, refresh in a whirlpool or relax in a sauna... then meet your friends in the com­fortable lounge area. We're open 'til midnight every night! 
205 West Edison Road. Mishawaka Phone: 259-8585 
Sports Illustrated 

SPECIAL STUDENT SAVINGS 
• 
$20 student membership entitles you to every fine service for a year. 

• 
Additional savings are yours at $2/per student anytime courts are not reserved. 


ONE HOUR cot:RT-TI~lE FREE WITH qls AD 

•. 
Friday, September 29, 1978 the observer 13


DQve Gill's 

PBS (Channel 34~ Other 
Second City; EverySaturday night, lOpm; Character Analysis; 1123 S. Michigan;The same type of humor that invaded St. 272-5891; by appointment; ask for Mrs. Mary's last Thursday appears weekly for a Augustine. If things get to be unbearable half hour warmup to "Saturday Night bec:-use of class pressure or you're justLive". If you haven't seen this show plam bored, check this place out. I'm not before, see it--you'll laugh your ever­sure of the cost, but it could make for an lovin' 'nadsos off. interesting evening. 

Century Center: September 29; SMC Junior Class Formal. 

September 29, 30, October 1; Arts and Crafts Show; 9am-7pm September 30; Disco 8:30-1am. 
October 3; Disco dance classes6-9pm 
Performance 

Richard Resch, organist; October 1, 8 pm; Sacred Heart Church. 
Notre Dame Woodwind Qulatet; October 5; Library Auditorium. 
I 
Lu Ann Hampton Laverty Oberlander; October 6, 7; 8 pm; O'Laughlin Auditorium. ND-SMC Theater kicks off the 1978-79 season with this production from Preston Jones' Texas Trilogy. Definitely worthwhile to see. If you can't make it this week, there will be four performances next week. 
Aerosmltb; September 30; 8pm. ACC. Any diehard rock and roll fan should enjoy this show as long as Steven Tyler doesn't imitate Jagger too much and as long as the band doesn't play music from their last two al17ums. ACDC opens for Aerosmith. I've only heard one of their albums and their name fits the music. They couldn't decide what to play or how to play it. 
PhD Keaggy and Paul Clark; September 30, 8 pm; Library Auditorium. Sponsored by The Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame. Admission is free. 
At The Nuz: Tonight, 'DisCO'at the Nazz'. Saturday night from 9:30-????, Greg HuU, 12-string guitarist. 
\ 
moviea 
The Sting; OctoberS, 6; 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm. 
Engineering Auditorium. Starring Robert Redford, Paul Newman. This one isn't as good after you've seen it once, but the acting, the costumes, and the music are excellent and make it worthwhile to see again. 
Somebody Killed Hel' Husband; Forum I; Starring Farrah Fawcett-Majors, Desi Ar­naz, Jr. I won't be a sexist and say that the only good part of this movie would be 
Fawcett-Majors' body, but I can't believe 


With hall formal dances just around the first wave of exams, some of the nicer bars or ~ocktail lounges should be given equal time. It would be hard to make a practice of visiting these places because of the somewhat higher prices for drinks, but when you're dressed up, these are nice places to go. 
Doc Pierce's Saloon; 120 N. Main, Misha­waka. A favorite watering hole of one of my housemates. The good Doctor provid..!s a western atmosphere with much better-than-average drinks. It has been rumored that some ND profs have been seep there, so you know it can't be too expensive. 
The Down Under Lounge; 910 E. Ireland. Located just west of Scottsdale Mall. The Down Under has a good atmosphere with good service. 
Eddie's; 1345 N. Ironwood. Excellent piano bar and good drinks. 
HoUy's Landing; 1717 Lincolnway ~st. Even though it's a chain in a five state area, the decor and service are more than adequate for a few peaceful drinks. 
Ice House; 100 Center, Mishawaka. The 100 Center is a nice place to go just for the interesting shops. The Ice House makes it even nicer. 
Vegetable Buddies; Appe-.ring this week: 
September 29, 30--Ralph Stanley and the 
Clinch Mountain Boys; October 2, 3--the 
movie The Comedy of Terrors; October 
4,5--Fat Richard and the Chicago Daily 
Blues. It should be noted that Fat Richard 
once was leader of the Luther Ellison brass ·section. 

that anything else she acts (and I use the term loosely) in can have any redeeming ;social or artistic value. 
Dr. Zhlvago; October 5; 8 pm; Carroll Hall (SMC). Starring Omar Sharif. Take your winter coat because the winter scenes are real and look so cold that you'II be shivering before you know it. Excellent scenery, music, costumes. Sometimes the plot drags, but it's worth seeing once, at least once without commercials. 

Animal House; 1:30, 3:40 5:45, 7:50, 10 pm. Town and Country I. Starring John Belushi. Crazy, hilarious, raunchy, good. All this and more from "Saturday Night's" resident nut, and Second City's outrageous Harold Remus. Collegiate humor at its best. 
Toga! Toga! Toga! . 
Up In Smoke: River Park; 7:30, 9:30 pm. Starring Cheech Marin , Tommy Chong, Stacy Keach. What can be sa1d about Cheech and Chong? The nationally-known comedy duo has moved from albums and concert appearances to movies. If the movie is anything like their live or recorded performances, then the film should be good entertainment. The advertisement reads"Don't go straight to see this movie!'', so you can make your O\•'n estimations of the film's content. 
Foul Play; 2:15,4 45, 7:15, 9:30. Town and Country II. Starring Chevy Chase and Goldie Hawn. Another "Saturday Night"· graduate makes it big with this first-rate spy spoof. Hawn continues the space cadet role she played so well on "Laugh-In" so many moons ago. Good fun. 
The French Coanecdon; September 28, 2'J; 7, 9, llpm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Gene Hackman. Film Version of the New York police's bust of a major heroin ring. Fine acting and even finer r!oematography. 
The Battle of ChUe; October 1, 2; 2, 7 pm. Washington Hall. State of Siege; October 4, 5, 6; 6:30, 9 pm. Washington Hall. The last movies (until November) of the Third World Film Festival recount the political strife that has plagued Latin America for centuries. If you haven't seen any of the .Festival's previous shows, catch at least one of these. 

Spotta 

Soccer; September 29; 8 pm; Cartier Field. ND vs. Purdue. How many can Rich Hunter's boys win in a row? Catch this amazing team in action! 
Crou Country; October 6; Burke Memorial Golf Course. Notre Dame Invitational. 
Tennis; October S; 2 pm; Regina Courts SMC vs. Butler. 
llagby; September 30; 10 am; Stepan Center fields. ND vs. Purdue. Check this out. It's the toughest sport I've ever seen and you might even be lucky enough to get p!lrt of the free keg the ruggers have at every game. 
Football: ND vs. Purdue September 30; 
1:15pm; ND Stadium. Last week, my editor told me he couldn't go home to Detroit if we lost to Michigan.· Since I'm from Indiana, if we don't win this week, both my editor and I will have to stay in South Bend durin& October break. 
-. -4·-..... 

--·---­
·~------~------~--­
Friday, September 29, 1978
14 the observer 
CLC sub-committee to study ND over-crowding situation 


' 
RIUOit€ lamBRUSCO $2.40/~J~th WhiSkey & VOOka $3.99/qnt
I 
I 
I 
passt t2pk cans $3.37 
OlOstyle t2pk BOttles $3.46
! 
hamms 12pk $3.15 8 pk soz BUO $1.90 
-' 
(!Tbatmrtu·s 
~t~ @Wmarint ~trial 
·----------~--~----------------------------·
i2 submarint satWwidtt;; I i fur !Itt urict nf 1--I i hut $1.35 ! 
I ; rnupnn txpirt& lU-1-78 !I 
~------------------------------------------· 
Nnw struing itt rnlb frtslt applt rWtr, frn5tn gngurt anb batry frtslt itt rrtam 

aunrtu's llatrg llarlllr <!UtatmttU·s : 1733 &nittb limb .Aut. 
it's a natural
Jilt. 277-4602 Just 5 milts from m 

by Don Schmid 
The Campus Life Council's 
(CLC) sub-committee on over­crowding is beginning an indepth report on the problem after being formed last Monday by Andy McKenna, student body president and chairman of the CLC. 
The subcommittee was created in response to a memorandum submitted by Student Body Vice­president Mike Roohan. Members of the committee include Fr. Rich-
Freshman Council 
•
organtzes 
by Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
The Freshman Advisory Council, (F AC), under the guidance of Emil 
T. Hofman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies, is busy organizing for 
"Laying an Egg"-Let Us Catch You 
At GOOSE'S NEST 
SMC Social Commission 
Presents its 2nd Annual Octoberfest Happy Hour 
3-6 pm Friday , October 6 We're Looking for Acts NOW 
• S t 416S
CaII N ancy, Francle or ue a Deadline -MONDAY, OCT. 2, 1978 SO GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER 
,.,...._........._.........~.;;......,..;;.;,..;;;;.,~__.;:....,.:;....~..,:..,...~...:;....~~...;;....;:.;..;,:;::..:...:.,...,;..::::.;.;:.,................_.....,..,,..,..) 
~**~~~..,..*.,_ 
"' "' " "" "" "'• 
Our Specialty: Oven Baked 

The council was formed three years ago to give freshmen more say in their activities and events. It is made up on one freshman representative from each hall who is chosen by the hall president. This year's council will elect offi­
cers to preside over themeetingsin a few weeks. The council is in charge of 
organizing all the extra·curricular activities for the class. Last year s~w Freshman Formal, a skating party, and various movies. T,ese
events will be repeated again along with other activities proposed
and approved by the council. The council does not merely 
concentrate on social functions. It 
also critiques the courses in the 
Freshman Year of Studies at the end of the second semester. 
Hofman said, "Each year the FAC gets better." He added, "Many of those who serve on it go on to hold more important positions in student government. FAC is a training ground." 
1
WINNER OF 6 ACADEMY AWARDS I METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER PRESENTS . 
ACARLO PONTI PRODUCTION · · DAVID LEAN'S FILM 
OF BORIS PASTERNAKS 
DOCTOR 
ZHiVAGO 
IN PANAVISIO~AND METROCOLOR October 5 ·Thursday 7 ·Saturday 
ard Conyers, rector of Keenan Hall, Mary Ryan, Gary Luchini, and Kurt Wesslen. 
The subcommittee will not make specific proposals for change, ac­cording to Conyers, but will make a "thorough study of exactly what overcrowding is, with emphasis on objectivity and accuracy.'' 
"Our first priority will be to arrive at a standard by which to judge overcrowding. This norm can be mathematically arrived at spe­cifically, allowing a certain amount of space per student," Conyers stated. 
"This committee will serve as the source of information for the CLC, so that it may possibly make recommendations as to the solu­tions of the problem," Ryan ex­plained. 
Members of the subcommittee are in the process of obtaining architectural plans of all the dorms on campus. The next step will be to analyze the numbers of people designated to live in a certain amount of space in each dorm. 
Conyers noted that some resi­dence halls such as Stanford, Keenan. Flanner, Lewis, and Grace do not allow for overcrowding. He added that other dorms such as Dillon, Carroll, Sorin, and Holy Cross can be forced into overcrowd· ing because of their architectural design. 
•'The second step of our plan is to elicit the cooperation of the rectors and presidents of the dorms. We'll go in and look at the rooms with measuring stick in hand," Conyers said. 
A key to committee's study will be ''the rectors taking a look at their own halls to find not only overcrowding conditions, but un­used space that could alleviate part of the overcrowding dilemma'' according to Conyers. 
Conyers added that dorms such as Carroll and Holy Cross Halls have very large rooms that can be expanded into six, seven, eight, nine man suites. 
The committee will also contact Fire Inspector Jack Bland for 
CarroU HaJJ • SMC 8:00p.m. Admission Sl.OO 
consultation on overcrowding from a fire safety point of view. 
The committee plans to report its findings at the next CLC meeting on Oct. 16. 
"This study is long overdue. We don't even have a clear definition of overcrowding yet, just to illustrate how far behind we are at Notre Dame," Conyers stated. 
Homecoming packages to go on sale Monday 
Homecoming packages will go on sale at 8 a.m. on Monday. The location of the sale will be posted on the front doors of LaFortune at 7 
p.m. Sunday night. 
Each package contains two gen­eral admission tickets to the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game; Lower arena ttckets for the Neil Young concert; a homecoming mum; and a ticket to this year's homecoming dance, the African Queen. 
Sale of the packages will be restricted to students and ID cards must be presented. Tickets will be sold on a first come, first serve basis. 
Concert series presents Richard Resch 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will present Richard Resch, organ. in a solo recital at 8 p.m. Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. The recital, which is open to the public without charge, will follow the evening vespers service in Sacred Heart. 
Resch is currently seminary organist and director of music for the Kramer Chapel at Concordia Theological Seminary, Fort Wayne He holds a Bachelor of Music in Church Music from Valparaiso University and a Master of Music in Performance and Church Music from the Eastman School of Music. 
Sunday's program comprises works from the German Baroque and from 20th century France. It includes J.S. Bach's chorale pre· lude on "0 Lamm Gottes, Unschul­dig" and his Prelude and Fugue in E Minor; the choral prelude "Durch Adams Fall" by Homilius, a successor of Bach at Dresden; a choral variations on the theme "Veni Creator" by the contempo­rary French organist Durufle, and the Prelude and Fugue in G Minor by Dupre. 


F 
Parking shortage affects all 

HOUSE 
by Margaret R. Burke 
Between 12,000 and 13,000 cars invade the Notre Dame campus on an averag .e home football week· end. Who decides where they park and how? 
Joseph F. O'Brien, assistant director and business manager of Athletics, handles the issuing of stickers for the 2,600 available spaces in reserved lots A and B, East and West Red Field and the lot beside the Aerospace Building. 
O'Brien said "these are the 
spots in demand'' because of their 
proximity to the football stadium. 
Stickers for these lots are set ·aside for the vehicles of the visiting 
team, as well as stadium workers, 
press, radio and television stations. 
The remaining stickers are obtain­ed through O'Brien's office by application from season ticket hold­ers. 
However, persons who obtained a season ticket recently may still have to park in green field because these stickers are renewable each season by the previous holders. 
If cancellations are made, O'Bri­
en explained, ''letters received 
WC?rld Hunger 
Coalition 
meets Sunday 
There will be a general meeting of the World Hunger Coaliton on Sunday, at 7 p.m. in the Grace Pit. All members are asked to attend. 

•••• BRIDGET McGUIRE'S •••• 
SUPER SPECIALS 
•Mon 
and Tues 7-10 25¢ drafts 

• 
Wed. ladies Night All night 112 priced mixed drinks 


•Happy Hour 4-7 M-F Beer Specials and 112 priced mixed drinks 
• Pre-Game Special 
Double Bloody Mary's $1.00 open at lOam 
Great Music and Congenial Atmosphere 
. Save50¢ I 

This coupon entitles the 
Clip this 
Coupon 
and Set 

Sail for 
Savings 
at Long 
John 
Silver's. 
exp 6 Oct. 1978 _ ' . 
I rwng~8i]ver~ 
SEAFOOD SHOPPES " ' 

I Goodool~~seland Shoppe ' 
requesting stickers are reviewed These spaces are assigned each/ and applications are sent out'' to game on a first come first serve fill these cancellations. basis. 
This leaves 9,000 to 10,000 Students are required to vacate unparked cars. Only guests of the C-3 and D-2 parking lots to provide Morris Inn who have reservations additional paved parking for visi­are allowed to park in the inn's lot. tors. The faculty must also vacate 
In order to park in the University their assigned parking spots by 
Club's parking lot, members-· 11:00 a.m. the day of the game. which .include the administration Arthur Pears, director of Securi­staff and faculty members-must go ty, said faculty and both on and off 
to the club the Monday prior to the campus students "can park free game. before 11 a.m. in orange, yellow, They must exchange the parking blue or green fields." After 11 permit received with their season a.m., students and faculty, like all football tickets for a decal for one of the visitors, must pay $2 to park the 237 spaces in the club's lot. their car. 
Saint Mary's Junior Class plans 'Midterm. Madness' 
The week prior to midterms, Oct. 9-14, has been designated as "Midterm Madness" by the Junior Class at Saint Mary's. The purpose of "Midterm Madness" is to give the students a chance to relax and enjoy themselves before the pres­sures of tests and papers begin the following week. 
This is the first time "Midterm Madness" has been tried and some of the plans are still tentative. Activities will include a movie
' 
Wed.k, Oct. 11 on Saint Mary's campus and it will be open to all students. Friday, Oct. 13 will offer a party with the theme "Friday the 13th'', and students should ~e prepared to dress appropriately for admission. 
Saturday, after the Pitt game, Goose's Nest has been reserved to host such contests as bobbing ofr apples in beer, disco dancing, and chugging contests. Winners of all events will be awarded prizes. There is also the possibility of_ raffling off a barrel of liquor. 
bearer to the above savings •.. off the regular price of a Chicken Planks. Dinner .• 
per penon. per VISit. •
oo~ ""'""'' o..ooopon ..' 
According to Denise Michlewicz, co-chairperson, "We ask that you remember these plans are tentative and subject to change, but we are looking forward to a week filled with madness." There will jbe more definite information concern­
ing  the  specifics  later, so keep  
posted.  
to meet  

There will be a meeting of the North Dining Hall Committee of the Food Advisory Board tonight at 
6:30 p.m. on the first floor of LaFortune. 
Sunlight streams into the Old Fieldhouse in one of these few last bright days. [Photo by Bob Gill.] 
BEER,WINE,LIQUOR·TO GO. 
. ·' 
HOT CARRY OUTS TOO! FOR PRE· GAME, DURING THE GAME, OR POST·GAME. 
EASY ACCESS TO STADIUM. 
Angela 
Phone 272·7818 
Carry outs 
·=--=-=--==-·-.--:.­
-.,.,.,::.,; ·::-.: c::. ::.-:·.---·.-.. 
Road Entrance 
JOIN THE FESTIVITIES! CELEBRATE WITH A ··~OOTBALL HIBALL" 
-ONLYAT THE OAR HOUSEl 
U.S. 31 North 
Bar and dancing till 3am 


----~­
-F-,~---------------------------------~----~--~--~-----~----------~-­
Friday, September 29, 1978 
I
18 the observer 
I 
\ . 
I 
I 
I. 
I 
I 
I < 
J. ~ 
·~ 
f 

• 
~­
l; 
I' 
\. d'­
W'f 
~ifti11D. 
Mountaineering#l. 

What is mountaineering all about? Funnyyoushouldask 
Because we justhappento have ananswer. (Ah-h, life's little coincidences.) Mountaineering is a skill, a science andanart. Yet anyone :with a thirstfor excellence andnormaJ.ly 
developed r skills canmaster it. Simply stucW, _· ... ......~....., andfollowthemfaithfullY~ • · 
. . .
!
Step one,·.. tappropri­. .. ··ately enough, ~llliL· ·starts by select­illg the correct site. · . To do so, pick up ~~--·· abottle of Busch~ 
This is commonly called heading for the mountains. 
poured, pacing becomes paramount..As any seasoned 
I mountaineer will tell you, the only way to down a mountain is slowly, smoothly and steadily-savoring every swallow of the brew that is Busch. Ifyou're a bit awkward at first, don't be
3Nowforthe discouraged Perfection ta.k~s practice. Soon enough, having • tricky part. emptied your and filled soul will be a Neophytes, listen mountaineer. up: the proper pouris straight down o ~~.il 
the center ofthe glass. Only in this way will the cold, invigo­rating taste of gthe mountain colile to a head. op; d l Before 
op;d 3After 
,.. "'6• Mminta.ineering. 
.-. "'6• Mountaineering. 
.. 
• 
.. 
• 
0 
• . 
Dorrt just reach for a beer. Head for the mountains. • .. 
• • 

Wilkinson speaks on 'repressive legislation' 
Frank wilkinson, executive director of the National Committee Against Repressive Legislation, will speak today at 3:30 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law School Building on the topic ''Criminal Code Reform: Why It Will Take Away Your Civil Liberties." 
In 1973, major legislation was proposed to reform the federal criminal laws. Although many of the changes merely involve codifi­cation and simplification of existing laws, there are also many new provisions which would increase the penalities for certain crimes. 
Some new provisions would authorize additinal wiretapping surveillance, and would have adverse effects on the freedom of press, speech and assembly. The possible passage of this proposed legislation--which is known as Bill 
Poll shows Brademas slightly ahead 
[Continued from page 1.) He is also a member of the boards of Saint Mary's, American University and the Woodrow Wil­son Center for Scholars. Brademas is also a member of the Trilateral Commission. Thorson is a political science professor at Indiana University at South Bend. He received his doctorate from Princeton in 196{' and has masters degrees from both Princeton and Indiana University at Bloomington. Thorson has served on the faculties of the University of Wisconsin at Madison, the Univer­sity of California at Berkeley, the University of the Philippines, Northwester University and the University of Toronto. In the spring of 1975 he was Fulbright Professor of American civilization at the University of Trondheim in Norway. In 1963, Thorson received a Guggenheim Fellowship to Oxford University in England. Thorson returned to the Jrd district permanently in 1970 to head the political science depart­ment at IUSB. In addition, Thorson has written several books on politics. 
Saint Mary's announces College-to-Career Days 
by Beth MJtcheU  requests for specific fields  to  be  
represented may be taken  to  the  
Saint Mary's alumnae  who  are  Counseling and Career Departm ent  
presently  employed  in  different  for additional investigation.  

fields will be invited to hold informal discussions with students interested in their career. "Col­lege-to-Career Days," a series of discussions, worqhops and dem­onstrations from ~ov. 7 to 9, will be open to all students to explore career possibilities. 
The activity is co-sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government and the Counseling and Career Department. 
Students will be able to ask questions on the advantages of certain majors, as opposed to others, as well as what courses alumnae would recommend for a particular field. 
The graduates will have the chance to describe their experi­ences in the business world, from their days as Saint Mary's to their present positions. The students will ha ,:e the opportunity to receive first-hand information on careers. 
"College-to-Career Day's" was born when members of the Student government and Counseling and Career Department found that there was a desire for a program to give additional exposure and direc­tion ; . students' anticipated ca­reers. 
For three davs, discuo;sions, work~ ~ps anJ demonstrat: 'ns will be h, J co· ou: · fhr' · 2"hout campL;!i>. All studen .:-are l:t?r.iially · :ivitee' to ~ttend. Because final pbns have not ~(:t b· set, 
S. 1--raises important constitu­tional issues. 
Wilkinson has been a strong 
advocate for civil rights and civil 
liberties for 25 years. He has 
written a number of articles in 
these areas, and has given 
hundreds of talks to student, 
professinal, business and labor 
organizations. 
The entire University community is invited to his talk which is sponsored by Joseph Bauer, associate professor of law, and the Indiana Civil Liberties Union. 
Paul Clark 
presents concert 
Paul Clark will present a concert Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. For the last six years, Clark has been actively involved in the development of contemporary gospel music. He presently lives in Kansas City and is an active leader in Agape Fellowship. 
Forum discusses policies 
[Continued from pag"" 1.) indicated that he believed the forum to be inadequate for getting at the complex type of issues that were raised. "The only way I know of doing it is through your hall situation and through the CLC, to make appropriate changes and be heard," he added. After the forum, student body president Andy McKenna noted that although the turnout was a clear demonstration of student concern, he wished that there could have been more of an exchange of ideas. ''A lot of important issues were raised," he said, "But we can't deal with these things conclusively in this forum -the place for it is the CLC." "We have the vehicle for change, but it hasn't been used," he continued. "With the open attitude of Fr. Van, the CLC can be used effectively.'' 




~ 
1 
' 
t 
I 
1 I j
I , 
t t 
l { 
l 
l 

I 
i 
! 
I i ' 
I 1 
I : 
i
; i i 
t 
I 
l I 
II I 
:I 't
j c i 
I I I 
I 
i
' 
I ~ 
I I I I 
I 
! 
I 
~ l 
q
( 

... '·­
----.--~-~----­
•., 

4~~ 1~11121§1 I~ JAZZJ {)f~etlllzc1tl()llc11 rnt?t?tlll~ f()l tilt? (()llt?~lcllf? Jc1zz ft?§ti~CII Ia()() lliul§ciCil St?()t. 1S 
i:e~tli§l2t?IICII 


SATURDAY OCT· 28 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A·C·C· All Seats Reserved 
$8.50 & $7.50 Ticket sale starts this Monday Oct. 2 
A.C.C. Box Office 9am to Spm 
and STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AT 9am 
Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 259-9090 
EXTRA MIDNITE SHOWS 
NOW! 2:15-4:45 
FRIDAY&: SATURDAY 
1:30-3:40-5:45-7:50-10-12:00 
•, 
Goldie Hawn 
CheYyOlose 
Friday, September 29, 1978
18 
IT'S NOT GOING 70 'WOflK I'H NOT A J,JOHAJJIZEPa. 
BELIEVE IN PRE6EPNIIJG MY­SELF FoR HARFUAG£ 
Oct 9 
Mon 
l'"Z2'l·(><Y"Jll.•H)~8 Ifiw:)" .,~ 
;w'co-,)@. (a.-4)(t><'>) i. ... b. (*'o.S') 
~.$)-'-to~896t-z_ -~ (CGkl.."f 
f<-t)S.)'/('f'&) /-R b84 (,'{)•,:. 

Oct 9/10 

Hon/Tues 
Oct 10 
Tues 
Oct 10/ll/12 


Tu/Wed/Thu 
Oct 11 
we-.r-
Oct 12 
Thurs 
NEW 
Oct 12/13 
Thu/Fri 
Oct 13 
~ 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
BBA and MBA. Me Donne11 D<:uglas Corpor• t ion BM in EE, ME, ChE, Met, AE, CE. ~ntgomery Elevator Co~a_n~ B in Hkt, Mgt, ME, MEIO, EE, CE (structural), B of Arch. ~torola, Dtc. Automotive Products Div._ 8 in EE •nd ME. 
Northwestern Mutual Life 
Btn Lib:--ArtB and Bus. Admin. I1RA. 
Ralston Purina Company 
B in HE, EE, ChE. 
Seidman & SPidman 
8 in Acct. MBA and JD with Acct bkgrnd or conctrn. 
Diamond Shamrock Corporation B in ChE. Inland St<>el Co. Indiana Harbor Works BMD in M<'t, ChE, EE. BM in ME, MEIO.-B in 
CE (Construction only.) Loyola University of Chicago-Institute of Industrial Relations 
R in all discipline8. 
Magnavox Government & Industrial Electronics Co 
B in EE and ME. 
Professional Services Industries 
Geo-Technical Engr, Construction Materials, Testing. 
BM in CE. 
Service Bureau Company 
cancPllPd. 
PPG Industries 
H in ME, EE, Chern. B in Acct. 
Price Waterhouse &Company 
B in Acct. MBA or Law graduates with Acct bkgrnd. 
Standard Oil Company of Indiana 
B in Acct. 
Corning Glass Works BM ln ChE, l!E, ME, MEIO, Met . In~urance Services Office (changed from Nov. 10) BM ln Math. B in Physics. Joseph T. Ryerson & Son, Inc B in Acct. B in all disciplines for Sales. Sikorsky Aircraft BM in ME, AE, EE, Met. 
Texa• Gas Transmission Corporation B in Acct. 
~ Scottsdale Malt 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th Telephone 291-4583 Telephone 288-8488 
NOW SHOWING EXTRA MIDNITE SHOWS FRIDAY & SAT. [ONLY] 

Main Building 
~uttable~ife As~u~~e Soc:le~ 
B in all disciplines. Howmet Turbine Components Corporation BM in Met, ME, ChE. GeorgeS. Olive & Co B in Acct. MBA with Acct bkgrnd or concentrn. Perkin-Elmer BM in ME, EE, AE, Comp Sci, Engr Phys, Engr Mechs. Southwestern University-School of Law B in all disciplines. (Sign-up at Pre-Law Society.) 
Washington University B in all disciplines. 
Delottte Haskins & Sells 8 in A<:ct. MBA with.Acc-t bkgrnd or concentrn. Texaco Inc BM in ChE and ME. B in CE, EE, Earth Sciences. 
ACIPCO Industries B in ME and CE. Cities Se~vice Compan~ Ph.D in ChE aod HE. 
B. F. Goodrich Company. Chemical Div. BM in ChE and Chem. B in ME and EE. 
B. F. Goodrich Company. Engr. Grad. Program BM in ME, EE, CE. (Preferably December grads.) ~yola University. Grad. School of Business B in all disciplines. State Farm Insurance Companies B in Acct or other Business majors with minimum of 12 hours in Acct. 
Rohm and Hus Compa_n~ BMD in ChE and Chern. 
~ton's 
yesterday's puzzle 


Friday, September 29, 1978 thl Obllr¥8[ 19 
. ------···----­
-~-------------..
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Angels' star buried 
: CIQssified Ads : 
Friends mourn Bostock
• HOTICES : Need two GA tickets to Tennessee. Call • 
e : Tony 6718 e LOS ANGELES [AP) • Funeral another 500 were outside. last road trip of the 1978 season,
• Typing done my home. Fast, accurate, : • services were held Thursday for The Rev. John C. Bain said, their most successful ever.
e reasonable. Close to campus. Phone : Need two G.A.Purdue and Miami tickets. • baseball star Lyman Bostock, and
272 7866 "Lyman was compassionate, fair, He was visiting relatives in e • : Call Joan: 1293 • California Angels teammate Ken honest, a strong competitor and nearby Gary when the fatal shot­
• 
Organizational Meeting Society for Jun-• :Brett told mourners: "He enli-generally full of fun." gun blast was fired through the 

• 
gian/Archetypal Psychology Sunday, Oc-wanted: Purdue GA tix-big bucks • vened our clubhouse and took us The entire Angels' squad, window of a car driven by Bostock's 

• 
tober 1 7:30P.M. Wilson Commons available-Call Chris-4578 • out of the darkness of defeat. But 


headed by General Manager Buz­uncle, Thomas Turner. 
•. Specr'al Dr'scount to all N.D. and SMC e he was a winner. He enjoyed life zie Bavasi and Manager Jim Fre­Police said the target apparently
I need 1 GA tix to Miami Call Bill 3169 h b h h d J'ttl t
• 
students on automotive parts. All you • so muc ecause e a so 1 e a gosi attended the services. Owner was one of the two women in the need is your ID card. Hoffman Bros. Wealthy father needs 2.4• GAs for • the beginning." Gene Autry does not attend fune­car, Barbara Smith, the estranged 

• 
Auto Electric 1101 E. Madison South Purdue Call Mark 8605 • Bostock, 27, was ,;hot to death rals because of personal religious wife of Leonard Smith, who was 

• 
Bend. • Saturday night while riding in a beliefs. arrested on a murder charge.

• 
Need 2 GA Purdue tickets Call John car in Gary Ind After three

• 
Contact Lens Wearers. Save on brand 234-1821 • ' • Bostock was active in helping

• 
namehardorsoftlenssupplles. Send for e seasons with the Minnesota Twins, Bostock's widow, Youvene, and 


youth and one of the youth activi­free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Need 1_3 G.A. tickets for Purdue. Call • he had signed a five-year contract his mother, Annie, were flanked by
• ties supported by the player was
Supplies, Box 7453 Phoenix, Arizona Jim 6939 • with the Angels calling for $2.7 the teammates and Lyman's four give Sl.OOO by former President
• 85011 • million. brothers. His father, Lyman Sr., 
Richard Nixon on Wednesday.
• Desperately do not need any football tix • "When he found the road to who had played in the Negro Nixon wrote Autry:
• 
Get happt. · at Pandora's inaugural for any game whatsoever. Money Is an • success, his first thoughts were to American League, also was in 

• 
Happy Hour. .dlf price special on used object. Will not pay big bucks. Don't call • help the people who had helped attendance along with several During_ his three years with


books from 3-6 p.m. Pandora's 233-2342 Scoop at 1n1
• · • him,'' said Brett, who is the players from other major league Minnesota, Bostock became one of 
• Gay students of Notre Dame Gay lnfor­
1need 4 GA Purdue tickets. 1 can't pay a e Angels' player representative. baseball clubs. major league baseball's top hitters
• mation Write P.O. Box 206 
lot, but will listen to all offers. I'd e "We are all better people for There were flowers from virtu· and his .336 average in 1977 was.----------------------e having known ally every club. The Angels' floral in American
appreciate any help, Thanks, John 283-Lyman and having second the League
• 
NOTICE 

• 
Wanted: organizations desiring $$$ for 1044 • him touch our lives." display depicted their scoreboard. only to teammate Rod Carew. 

• 
their treasury gain by selling visors at Need 2or 4 GA tix for Purdue Mike 1610 e There was a standing room Following the funeral, burial was Becoming a free agent at the end 


Purdue game -Ace-234-1720 
e throng of about 1,000 for the in Inglewood Cemetery. of last season, Bostock chose to
.---------------------­
• 
Morrissey Loan Fund Need GA tickets for Purdue. Call8685. e services at the Vermont Square Bostock was killed while the sign with the Angels after several e Student Loans $20-$1501 percent interest e United Methodist Church and Angels were in Chicago on their other teams bid for his services. 

• 
Due in 30 days one day wait. LaFortune I need one student Purdue ticket. Ask for • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • •


John -1044 : • •
• Basement M·F 11:30-12:30 
Need two GA Purdue tickets. Call Mark • For anyone who doubted-Michele Kelly, To All Those It May Concern: herewith is • · Need two GA tickets to Pitt game. Call
•• Typist will do typing. Neat, accurate. at 6718 • Sarah Kunst, Jane Knight and Rosemary your reminder that the party is tonite at •
Pete 1460
Reasonable rates. Call: 287-5162 Milts are still living in 353 Farley.· The 9:00 until? The addms is 711 West Sister and fiance need 2 GA tickets for question is-When is anybody home? Colfax. So try and come! •
.----------------------Big Bucks!!! Need 2 GA's for Purdue. 
Michigan State Call Anne 6816 Andy e
Call Walt 1586 
Dear D. K. (king as in disco duck) and P.S. That means you Mr. Gorham, Carey, e FOR RENT Needed desperately: 2 GA tickets for S.M. Reporter. As a victim of your M.B., Antonia, Mr. Hull, Ann •
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Purdue game . 
Purdue. Will pay good bucks 2-4996 column 1 am happy today -It is your
. Call Mike 7838 
no ads today -sorry • Leslie • birthday-Have a Happy One' (HA HA') I Toda; is Chrj;Simo.;:;-birthda; 4-1· •
. •
• : hope you make anumber of trips back fro 5n3 • call her up and sing 1 bar of •
• 
• Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home
: Sister and Cuz want to see Purdue boil' from the lake, wet from curly head to • "Happy Birthday" •
football game. Call Mike 7838
e LOST & FOUND . Call Ken 3597 webbed feet (those banana boats) r B. N. ------------------.
: 
.• SWS, Happy 23 and many more to come. eNeed 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call
: Lost: Men's black billfold outside 0' : Help! Need GA for Pitt. Will buy or trade I hate disco_ Love, TDH e
Herman 3549
• Shaughnessy on Tuesday September 26. : student pass to any remaining home I hate disco. 
I hate disco. Ji;Mack;on 4thfloo-;-&~Ed';Wish~ou •
• Need desperately. If found call 233-8622. : Need 4 GA Purdue tickets Call Jeananne game. Call Rose 1320 
I hate disco. best of luck Sat. on MCATs •
• Reward. : _656_1___________ . 
Need VOLUNTEERS to sell Tennessee I hate disco.
• ----------------------· 
GA tix. Call Chris 1764 I hate disco. We hereby officially nominate Dick •
• Found: 1 student season football ticket. • Need 1 Purdue ticket, Student or GA. 
I hate disco. "Geek" Norton for the office of Dome •
• Call and Identify -3441. Please Call Jeff at 1000 Will pay$$$ 
Need two GA Purdue tickets. For a I hate disco. Princess. Dick will accept congratulatory •
. 
: 
lifelong friend plus cash call1702! I hate disco! calls personally at phone no. 3467 •
Found: pair of glasses behind Stepan • 1 'II s 8 8 "'ellent money for 2 
• Center. Photo-gray with brown frames. : p~:d.fea~A~~ec:n ,:;now at 8518 
Help me prove that we have abetter team Take notice. Oct. 1 is Don Pasquale's John Baby, Get rid of that Polly chick and •
• Contact the Observer and Identify them : -----------------­
than Northwestern. I need two Purdue birthday. The family wants you to wish we can go to the formal in style... You've •
• and they're yours again : Need 2 GA Pitt tix badly -Call Ken 
GA or student tickets for doubting him a happy birthday -or else we will heard of "Weekend in Cotton" well how e
• : 289-8657 
frienas. make you
• Lost: light blue warmup jacket in front of : ------------Bob 8717 an offer you cannot refuse. about "Weekend in Cleveland?" e 
Truly, Sons of Lucca Brazzi. Kissy Lips •
• Morrissey Hall. If found please call Wanted: 2 Purdue GA's for my parents Need 1 student ticket for Purdue John 
13679 who think I already have them. Call Brad 8549 : Seal, Happy 18th Birthday, Sunday Bob, If you crawl over to my room on your • • at 3504 : Better take two aspirin Monday morning-knees, maybe I'll forgive you for breaking • 
• Lost: Gold bracelet in or around N.D. Needed: 2 or 3 GA Purdue tix. Call Mike you'll need it! Doc our dinner date! Kim 329 •
• Math Building. Pat 4-1-5425 1 need 2 Purdue student tickets. Call 3003 • 
• 
John at 1991 Oink!Oink! Happy Birthday Early, Mom Russell, Great to have you here. e 

• Lost: from black jacket in Stadium· Photo Need 4 Purdue tickets Tim 3646 CE CE ... Love, The Porquers Thanks for bringin the sun too' •

• 
desk Brown frames prescription glasses wanted: tickets to any and all remaining : in brown case. Reward. Call Chris home games. Call3498. Ask for Marty Needs GA Purdue tickets. Call Ruth Ravishingaphroditesoughttoaccornpany : Tune in to WSND·AM Tuesday night at • 

• RobinsWNDU233-7111 orMark. 7136 humble adonis to aerosmith concert. llpmandgetblastedwithJoeJoyceon • • , Must have strong Dionysian proclivities. "blasts from the past" ·where all the • 

• 
FOR SALE Needed-Purdue G.A. tix Call John 1874 Need up to 10 Purdue ga tickets. Please Call after ·6:00pm explaining why you good songs have gone.-• 

• 
call Tim or Joe at 1850 or 1775. Thanks. qualify. 13748 e 


• Have 1 GA Pitt ticket will trade for 1 GA LSAT tutor wanted to teach small classes. Joe Stachura, welcome to Notre Dame. • e Miami and 5$ Joe 1069 Excellent pay. Call collect (317) 403-7541 Need 2 or 3 GA Purdue. Call Barb 8038 a What is an Urban Plunge? Hope you don't get too "boiled" when e A Something very much worth looking the Irish stomp Purdue'' r' Tim and Joe :
l&tl? VW convertible extra sharp rebuild Needed Purdue GA tickets Call 8432 Need Purdue tickets. Call 8928 or 8991 into. • engine and transmission. 277-4082 ------------To anyone who cares in the least-the • 
• 
Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Bill 862 Wanted: 2 GA tickets to Pittsburgh. Call • section party has now been rescheduled e • 1&1? FIAT 124 Sports Convertible Very Chuck 289-6721 Nick collect at (315) 457-5586. for SATURDAY not Friday. Be there!!' • 

• 
good condition throughout 277-4082 Need 2GA tix for Tennessee. Call Jim. 911 Club e e I need 5 GA Miami tickets (not ne-1816 There is a meeting of the ND Ham Radio PS-Tracy, your friend Alby can stay as • • DOES YOUR WARDROBE HAVE THE cessarily together) Call John at 1991 Club on Sunday night at 7:00 on the 12th long as you come to the party with 2000 • • BACK TO SCHOOL BLUES? Dress it up Female grad student seeks serious dance floor of Grace-Come join us1 female friends. • 

with 14·18K Gold Jewelry! Call Marilyn HELP WANTED station attendent need-partner. (6 feet or over) Call Carole mo 

• 
for a display of exquisite chains, ed. Experience preferred. Evenings and • Mom and Dad, Ready for a wild Hey there Margie Baby -How you be? e 

• 
bracelets, rings, etc...3848 weekend. Apply in person. Mike's Maple wanted: Accounting major to set up weekend? Love, Keith, Carolee, Sheri, Thanks for everything' II' e 

• 
Lane Amoco 18492 St. Ad. 23 business working at leisure hours. $5.00 Kathy. e • NO faculty member selling 1970 Chrys-per hour. 283-7735/36 Call for Basil, To Tom Soma on his 21st birthday: may • 

• 
ler. Excellent running condition. Roomy Desperately Need 2 GA tickets for leave phone number George, Happy 21st and many more . you make friends with whom you please. 

$850. 288-6013 Tennessee and 5 others for any home Brrd and please those whom you befriend. and • • game. Call John at 6934 WANTED:Two GA or Student tickets for cherish the diHerence in the snow. A • 

• 
For Sale: areal snow bird. 1964 Rambler Purdue. call 3489 Bill, Louisville, the Falls or Route 44 It's Rose e 

• 
Classic VB 54,000 miles. Never saw snow Needed! Purdue tickets!!! Call5754. Sue ------------------yours on your half!!! Trouble e • or rust. Florida driven. Power steering, Pay Bucks would appreciate 2 GA Pitt tickets. : Toots, • e brakes, and windows. Automatic, air Please call Teri 7993 : AMERICAN FOXES! Czechoslcmklan T.G.~_:_ ______________ • 

• 
conditioned. This car is in mint Need 1or 2GA Purdue tickets. Money no • swingers Jorge and Yortuk still on condition! one of a kind -$1000.00 problem. Call Tom 3010 1need just 1 GA or student ticket for Pitt : campus! Call them on the party line • 228 Breen-Philllps. • 


• Privately owned 255-8660 after 6 pm game. Call Jan 8154 anytime. • 3489ask for Ktlonl You wanted a personal, you got a • • Help. I need Purdue tickets!!! Call Anne personal. Hi Kathy. • 
• 
I 4236 Need two GA tickets for Pitt and Dear 4 Mini-Moons, I'd howl under your C.C. e • WANTED Tennessee. Call susan 4--4541 stars any night!'! Wolfman Flanner Hall is in a frenzy. •

• 
tix Call Jenni 8008 PERSONALS SHE is! Love, Sticks and Fingers look-alike contest is... •.

Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work 

• 
Need two tickets to any home game. Call : at home-no experience necessary--ex-To Mrs. Popovich, Dear B·SMC Please saY. something ~REo': TT~~ ~~Tom Behney e 

• 
Dan. 3401 • cellent pay. Write American Service, Thanx for letting me write so many "meaningful and relevant! ' There will be no more S&M staH e 


e wanted: one student football ticket for -----------­• I have money do you have 2 GA Purdue Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243 Father George -We want to know who rh;-win; of the Marie Osmond • 
e : 8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX personals without getting mad at me... at your majors in Vo-Voism S&M • 
e Klebie's buddy needs 4GA and 1 student : 75231 least, not too mad at me! Scoop bOxes. There will be no more • ticket for Purdue. Call 8872 : Drugs • I'm hooked! (any suggestioN?) personals. Please. SAO • • Need GA tix for Purdue and Pitt Joe 1478 Wtry is it that the new YES album • ME Everyone who thinks Car~ McCaughey is • • Need ride to Phila. or Allentown during '"Tourmat~" was released last Monday, beautiful. talented. charming. witty, and • 
• 
break. Will share driving and expenses Need GA's to Pitt Money no object!!! Call (Jon Anderson told me so...) and these To Mari Jean and Kathleen, Congratula-gracefull, give her a call and tell h6r so. e 

• 
Call Bill -1487 Tom 2n-1071 • stupid midwest record stores won't get it tions Love, 3EW Stanford (Even il you don't thint so. ca~l her e 

• 
until Friday?! PS· Happy belated birth-anvw:tv. She's a verv lonely qir1.}1283. • -.


e Wanted: 2 Purdue tix Call Higgs 4578 Wanted: 2-4-GA tix for Purdue. Please day Rick! Momma Cuoz, Happy "39" from my end Mary c.. OM fiii1 owr a. Jli•1i • help! I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731 · of the country! Keep up the good work! Milt : Want tix to Pitt, Tennessee. Call Steve To whomever call the 911 Club last nite, Lovek your favorite son : · • 
• 
1478 Help wanted: Anastasio's Restaurant loved your voice. If you're really as • For Mary on turning 21, •. 1611 South Main Street. Call: 234-325 "lonely" as you say, come to the section RKD, Happy belated fifteenth from me. I Time for kisses and much fun. 

• 
Need many Purdue tickets. (sorry: GA's WELCOME ND-SMC STUDENTSIll party Saturday. There will be tots of guys never t~ht Li'l Abner could do this. Now you can legally drink, e • only for all you pessimiststh) cat.llk1ts419Asthek Need Purdue tr·x, student or GA Call1842 • there... P.J.D. PS ouble Ditto Never again wind up in tndhe ~~· f • 


e money will be as good as e IC e · The Club So go to the Library a n•wv a ew • e for Joe or Ralph • Pat Gunning-OAP (two of them!) From glasses. Need GA Purdue tlx Steve 8422 Wiggs, P.P. Jules-C. Love you loads' • 5-A Flanner Then tell the vice squad they are all a--s. • • My in-laws will be here for the Purdue Morg-Z Signed Kibi. Labatia. Mervin, t<rt Lola. • 
• 
game. Need 20 GA or student tickets. I am really sick and tired of all these Don't hibernate on Oct. 14. Join Skipper Murph. Singer. Nanci. Brillo, and Lowri e 

• 
Call 272-5626 before 10 p.m. people who need Purdue tickets... Goo Goo Eyes: and Freddy at the African queen Home------------------------------------------------.,. 

• 
How about some IMIIhJve reinforce-coming Dance. I hate to tell you. but there is no library t 


e Neea one Purdue ti~ student or GA ~om and DaO desperately n~ed 2 Purdue ment? Practice makes perfect! usa any more. It is now something else. • 
• ticket Please. Call Linda 4-1-4614 trckets. Call Dan 8252 Love, Your phenomenal SMC chick Happy Birthday woe day lafl ----------------­
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~••••••·•••• ...................• 

-.-. ; ----~------------------------~~.------.----.---------~--~----------------••~•~aa..~~......a......~........sz ~....•=~~............~...~a..~..aa....ll 
Friday, September 29, 1978 
20 the observer 
Guidry four-hits Blue Jays; Yanks maintain game lead 
l NEW YORK [AP] -Lefthander single and moved to second as Torrez, 0-6 in eight starts during Ron Guidry fired a four-hitter for Reggie Jackson walked. When his prolonged slump, survived
l 
his 24th victory of the season as the Moore feel behind Lou Piniella on unusual wildness in overpowering

l ) 
I first-place New York Yankees the count, Tom Buskey relieved for the Tigers as the Red Sox defeated the Toronto Blue Jays 3-1 the Blue Jays. completed a three-game series Thursday night, edging a notch Piniella's roller advanced the sweep with their ninth victory in closer to a third straight American runners and Graig Nettles was their last 11 games. He walked League East championship. walked intentionally, loading the seven. 
The victory reduced the Yanks' bases. Chris Chambliss grounded The Red Sox backed Torrez, now magic number for clinching the to first, but Doug Ault, trying for 16-12, with four double plays, each division title to three, and helped the fource play at the plate, threw coming after a Detroit batter had keep their lead over second-place the ball away, allowing Munson led off an inning with a walk. Boston at one game. and Jackson to score. Torrez also was saved by center 
Guidry, 24-3, struck out nine, fielder Fred Lynn, who fielded a shattering the club record of 239 single by Milt May with two out in
PQ~x 1, 'tigers () ···•••
set by Hall of Farner Jack Chesbro the fourth and fired a strike to the in 1904. Guidry finished the game plate to cut down Jason Thompson with 243. trying to score from second.
·~itar~n·:J::~:rJ~~ 
The Yankee ace was locked in a pit~hed. a··•thtee4titter f()t hiS first Detroit rookie Kip Young, 6-7 
tight duel with Bator Moore, 6-9, victorysi~··A.ug;.··ts•·.~s.tlte.•Bostoo since being called up from the with the score tied 1-1 until the minors July 20, allowed three hits, sixth 1 inning. Thurman Munson but was victimized by Rice leading opened the Yankee sixth with a off the fourth. 
'·=··~~~h 
Valpo first victim of Belles 
Coach Maroni commented with 2-0 by tromping the Notre Dame by Beth Huffman . 
enthusiasm: "I thought it (match) gals, Thursday night, 15-13 and Sports W rfter 
was fantastic!" 15-5. Monahan headed the team's 
Saint Mary's volleyball team 
Freshman setter, Amy Morris, attack with excellent setting.rolled over Valparaiso in a major led the team in performance, along Monahan and Imler spirited the 
upset to begin its season play on with good spiking by Amy Terry team with excellent leadership. 
Wednesday evening. SMC held its and Mary King. Other starters Saturday, Angela Athletic Facili­own during the first game of the 
included Kathy Cahill, co-captain ty will be the site for a tri-match tight match, but ended on the Kathy Monahan and captain Joanie with Huntington, Notre Dame, and 
losing side, 12-15. Saint Mary's 
Imler. Saint Mary's. · Match play will then blasted away three straight SMC boosted its season record to begin at 8 a.m. 
game wins, 15-13, 15-12, and 15-12, to take the match. Coach Wilma Aitcheson describ­
Irish win s~cond straight
ed the Valparaiso team as "star­studded'' and loaded with scholar­University on Wednesday, and
by Kathy CampaneUa 
ship players. Both coach Aitche­recorded its second win of the
Sports Writer
son and fellow SMC coach Betty season by defeating the home team Maroni expresses deep satidaction The Notre Dame women's field by a score of 1-0. with the team in the upset win. hockey team traveled to Taylor As the score would indicate, it 

was largely a defensive contest. 
The first half remained a scoreless 
period despite the offensive efforts 
of both teams. During the first 
half, Taylor was awarded.~ thirteen 
penalty comers, each of which is
Classic Blunders 
consedered an advantageous situa­tion in which to score. The Irish were not intimidated by this, as 
:;=;=;=:=;=:::=:=:=:=:===============:=============:=:=:=:=======:=:===:=========:=:===:=:=:=:===:=:===========================:=:=:=:=; Referees 
they showed their defensive skill byThe referees of the National Football League are beginning to feel continually breaking up the play.
pressure, the pressure of making poor calls. Calls which affect the Overall, Taylor dominated the outcome of a game. 
half, leading in both possessionLast season there were several poor calls, including two which time of the ball and shots on goal.
conceivably altered the division title winners in the AFC East and Central It was the outstanding play· of theDivisions. 
Notre Dame goal defense, led byBaltimore won the Eastern Division title when a referee's whistle goalkeeper Mary Hums and sweep­nullified an obvious fumble in the season's finale. Commissioner Pete er Ann Boland, which kept Taylor Rozelle publicly apologized to the Houston Oilers after a referee's from scoring.
mistake. Had that game been awarded to the Oilers they would have been During the second half, the Irishthe Central Division champs. 
rallied their offense against theIn the four weeks ofthe 1978 season there have already been two classic defensively strong Taylor team.
blunders. The Raiders stole a game from the Chargers by throwing, With a renewed team effort, Notrepushing and kicking, a "fumble" into the end zone. Dave Casper fell on Dame repeatedly drove the ballthe ball in the end zone and the Raiders had a cheap touchdown and into the Taylor half of the field, andvictory. 
with 11:23 gone by, thruster CarrieLast Sunday the Steelers and Browns were tied 9-9 after regulation play Rooney scored.
and went into overtime. The Steelers won the coin toss and chose to Heated play continued through­receive. Larry Anderson took the kickoff near the goaline and raced up out the period as Taylor strove tofield. Anderson either slippedortrippedover the feet of one of his blockers tie the game. But the Irish held on, about the 20-yard line. Knowing he was not down, Anderson got up and even to the very end when Taylorcontinued to run. He subsequently fumbled and the Browns recovered put together its final offensivedeep in Pittsburgh territory. Just kick a field goal and win, right? Wrong, drive with less than ten seconds left the referee said it was no fumble. The Stee]ers then drove for the winning in the game.
touchdown. 
This win gives Notre Dame aWhat do these mistakes prove? Something that has been known all record of 2-0. On Saturday, thealong: referees are human and make mistakes. 
Irish will defend their recordShould there be some system whereby referees' calls can be reviewed against the field hockey team from·and changed if needed? Yes, but only in crucial game situations. Maybe Saint Mary's Colle,ge.
each team could have the opportunity to review one call per game. If they 
asked for a review and it was determined that the referees were correct, 
Rally scheduled
they should be assessed a penalty -maybe fifteen yards and loss of down. 
This penalty would discourage use of the review mechanism unless it was The "Beat Purdue" pep rallynecessary. 
will be held at 7 p.m. today atIf the NFL does not put in some sort of review procedure, this could be Stepan Center. Featured speakersanother season when referees' calls are the most talked about matter in for the warm-up to Saturday'sprofessional football. 
game include Irish linebackerGrid Dust-Claude Humphrey's,etirement from the Atlanta Falcons, coach George Kelly, players Mikeeffective immediately, came as a shock to everyone. The once-stingy Calhoun" and Vagas Ferguson, andFalcon defense has been a little easier to penetrate this season, and Notre Dame names of the pastHumphrey's Joss should make it even weaker.... Jet quarterback Terry Brennan, Jim Lynch and NickRichard Todd is the fourth signal caller to be seriously injured this season. 
Rassas.
The Jets will suffer without Todd because only second-year man Matt Robinson and rookie Pat Ryan back up Todd .... Calvin Hill sure ~egained his desire to play football in a hurry. After retiring from the Redskins this Bengal workouts summer he waited about six weeks before he decided to sign with the The Novice Bengal Bout Work­Oeveland Browns. He'll be in uniform this Sunday .... Seattle linebacker outs are currently being held from Sammy Green has been charged with second degree rape, but the Seattle 3:30 to 5:00 Monday through management thinks he's innocent and is; backing him all the way. They Friday at the Boxing Room in the said they want him to "clear his name".... Packers' running back Hockey Arena of the Ace~ All Terdell Middleton has played well thus far and has helped greatly in the novices are encouraged to come Pack's three wins. out. 
•
..........____________________________________________
~----------------------­

Notre Dame will attempt to snare its 25th successive soccer victory tonight at Cartier Field against Purdue. [Photo by lee Sender] 
Weekend of WSND sports 
Join WSND, AM 640, this week­11:00 p.m. -Notre Dame Foot­end for the following special sports ball Highlights with Paul Stauder 
programming. and Lou Severino. . Sunday
Saturday 6:00p.m.-Campus Comer with 
1:25 p.m. -Notre Dame vs. Brian Beglane. Purdue Football, live from Notre 6:30 p.m. -Pro Football Report Dame Stadium with Tony Pace and with Tony Pace and Greg Mere­Greg Meredith. dith. 
6:00 p.m. -Sports Extra and 9:00 p.m. -Speaking of Sports College Football Scoreboard with with Paul Stauder, Lou Severino, Lou Severino. Frank LaGrotta and Brian Beglane. 
Craig C hvaI::::::::::;;:==~=====:===;===;=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=~=:=~=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:==::;:;:;:;;;;;:::;:;;;;;;;::=:==;===:===;=;==::;:;:;:; 
A Growing Game 
=====:=========;===;::;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;:;:;:;::========================:===================;:==:=====;===;===;===;===;=;=;:Spectating 
Notre Dame's soccer team is a little bit like the overweight 12-year-old who didn't really fit in with his classmates. Instead, he would terrorize the younger schoolboys every chance he got. But in the end, he would get his come-uppance from someone his age. 
The Irish have done more than their share of pounding lumps on overmatched opponents this fall. Eight straight wins to open the season have given Notre Dame a 24-game winning streak, the longest in the nation. The Irish have yet to lose since becoming a varsity sport early in the 1977 season. 
Tonight, however, when tbe Irish look across the field during warm-ups, they will not see jerseys bearing names of colleges that they can't pronounce. 
Tonight, the Irish will be ripe for their come-uppance. 
Other than wins over Michigan and Indiana Tech, Notre Dame has yet to be tested while outscoring its opposition, 53-4. But the Irish will have more than ample opportunity to prove themselves in the upcoming four weeks. Looming on the horizon are road games at Dayton and perennial power Indiana, and a return match at home with Dayton. 
The game with Purdue tonight has great significance for head coach Rich Hunter's team. The Boilermakers were Notre Dame's first opponent after becoming a varsity sport, and the Irish responded with a 2-1 voctory. 
But with the help of "the world's greatest student body", the game could take on an added importance. Because the Irish, despite their flawless record, are fighting for recognition. And a healthy crowd at Cartier Field would put the pressure on the Irish kickers. Nobody needs to be reminded how fickle Notre Dame fans are. 
Hunter and his players are fighting an uphill battle in their quest to be noticed. The day when soccer players were automatically placed in one of two categories--commies or fags--is only a painful memory. But public acceptance of soccer as a spectator sport is agonizingly slow. 
Nobody is more aware of that than Hunter, who predicts that it will be several years before soccer builds a strong following among Notre Dame students. "Notre Dame is still very football-orientated," says Hunter, "which is good. I just think it will take some time before the student body takes to soccer." 
Part of the problem may lie in the nature of collegiate soccer. While most students can easily differentiate between good and bad teams in football and basketball, it's not so easy to separate the wheat from the chaff in soccer. 
Just the other day, Hunter received a letter from the soccer coach at Rockhurst College in Kansas City. The coach wrote to recommend a player who was interested in the Notre Dame soccer program. 
Almost as an afterthought, he mentioned that he was interested in starting a home-and-home series between the two schools. "Rockhurst wold probably kill us," said Hunter. "It would be great for their program to be able to say that they beat Notre Dame--that's the Notre Dame mystique. If we did beat them, everybody would say big deal, but if we lost, everybody would wonder how we lost to Rockhurst." 
Hunter doesn't seem to be on a frantic timetable to take the campus by storm. "We have to build a winning program first," says Hunter. "And then we'll build student interest." 
With the nation's longest winning streak, though, it looks lite Hunter has held up his part ofthe bargain already. Now it's up to the only student body ever to be named the MVP ofanationally-televisedbasketball game. 

