-~ --· 
Trustee Hellmuth: former CIA front 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Trustee Paul F. Hellmuth acted as president and director of a CIA front organization engaged in illegal domestic spying and surveillance, according to John Marks, director of CIA projects for the Center for National Security Studies. 
Marks told The · Observer last night that Hellmuth, a Notre Dame graduate, headed Anderson Secur­ity Consultants, Inc., (ASC) a <;IA owned and operated corporation established in the early 1960~s and disbanded in 1974. The Anderson firm, legally charterd by the stated of Virginia as a private industrial security consultant, actually co~?-­ducted surveillance of domestic anti-war and civil rights activists, Marks alleged. 


'There is no question that he was doing this for the CIA ... ' 
Marks mentioned Hellmuth's 
aiJeged involvement with the CIA 
during a lecture Tuesday night on 
the Notre Dame campus. Accord­
ing to two sources, Marks had no 
plans to talk about Hellmuth or his 
alleged involvement in the CIA 
until he saw a picture of Hellmuth 
hanging on the wall at the Morris 
Inn and realized that he was a 
University trustee. He then 
decided to bring up Hellmuth's 
name in his speech, the sources 
said. 
Hellmuth refused to comment on the allegations made in chat speech when contacted by The Observer. "It's a matter that I don't wish to discuss," he said. He also refused to explain the exact nature of the firm's business and denied ever having worked for the government. 
"There is no question that he was doing this for the CIA," Marks said, refer ing to Hellmuth. 
Marks said that ASC was dis­cussed at length in a Senate report under the code name of "Operation Merrimac.'' Although ASC is never named as such, according to Marks, the description of the corporation and its life span match those of "Operation Merrimac." This relationship was confirmed by sources unnamed by Marks. Marks said he received his infor­mation about Hellmuth from a ''reliable, Congressional source.'' 
Hellmuth graduated with an 
A.B. degree from Notre Dame and an LI.B. degree from Harvard Law School. He also attended the 
SMC trial policy says: 

If 21, you can drink on campus 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
St. Mary's students over the age of 21 are now officially permitted to consume alcoholic beverages in the privacy of their rooms for the first time in the college's history. This policy will be in effect for one year (until Dec., 1978) on a trial basis. If no major problems arise, it will become official college policy next January, Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice has announced. 
Under this policy, students of legal age may not provide alcohol to minors. Nor may students over 21 consume liquor in any of the public areas of the dorms such as hallways, lounges or stairways. The students' doors must be kept closed while using alcohol to insure a reasonable noise level and to Massachusetts Institute of Tech­nology (MIT), doing graduate work in management accounting. 

During World War II he served in the U.S. Army, attaining the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. In 1947 he joined the Boston law firm of Hfle and Dorr, one of the largest law firms in New England, and was elected senior managing partner in 1955. 
Hellmuth is now retired from Hale and Dorr. He had been director of 28 businesses and corporations and has also served in the capacity of president, vice president and treasurerof firms such as W.R. Grace & Co., New York, Cabot, Cabot & Forbes Co., Boston and Ritz Carlton Hotel Co., Boston. 
Hellmuth was named to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees in November, 1960. 

TODAY...
.. 

this little critter will beMa Nature's tattletale! 

Mr. Groundhog 

Carter discusses Panama during second fireside chat 
WASHINGTON [AP] .. President Carter said last night he would not hesitate to send U.S. troops to defend the Panama Canal-"and I have no doubt that even in sustain­ed .combat. we would be success­ful." 
But Carter said the treaty to yield control of the waterway to Panama in the year 2000 would diminish the risk of any need for armed inter­vention to defend it. 
Urging public support for Senate ratification of the Panama Canal treaty, Carter's firm pledge con­fronted one of the ·major points raised by opponents who complain that the pact does not spell out American defense rights. 
That opposition argument deals with the situation after the year 2000 when the canal would be under Panamanian control when Carter, of course, would not be president. 
In a nationally broadcast and televised "fireside chat", the sec­ond of his year-old presidency, Carter said approval of the treaty is ''in the highest national interest of the United States and will strength­
en our position in the world." 
He said opposition to the treary, due to come up for debate in the Senate next week, "is based on misunderstanding and misinfor­mation.'' 
Carter said there is a much better· option "than sending our sons and 
grandsons to fight in the jungles of 
Panama," and that is implementa­
tion of the treaty. He said that will 
help to avoid any attack on the 
Panama Canal. 
The president argued that ratifi­cation will strengthen U.S. security interests, improve trade-opportuni­ties honor a commitment to keep the canal open to world commerce at a fair price and ''demonstrate that as a large and powerful country we are able to deal fairly with a proud but smaller sovereign nation." 
Much of Carter's talk was devoted to posing questions often raised by treaty critics and providmg his own answers. For example, he said, many Americans argue "we 
bought it, it's ours." 'his response was "we do not own the Panama Canal Zone -we have uever had sovereignity over it" but rather have purchased the right to usde it through annual payments to Pana­ma. ''We have never needed to own the Panama Canal Zone," he said, ''anymore than we need to own a 10-mile wide strip of land through Canada when we build an interna­tional gas pipeline." 
Carter also raised· the question of whether the United States would have the right to protect and defend the canal against any armed attack or threat to its security. 
{e1 , ud • •· 7·1 

---~----'---------­


Thursday, February 2, 1978

the observer 

,...News Briefs____----.... 
r=====::===::===:::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::========== World 


Sadat pursues peace 
CAIRO, Egypt -President Anwar Sadat huddled with American mediator Alfred Atherton yesterday to lay the groundwork for summit talks in Washington which Egyptian sources said would be ''vital'' to keeping the peace process alive. The meeting ''provided the opportunity for a broad review of a full range of issues" that the Egyptian leader will be discussing with President Carter this weekend, an American spokesman said. 
======::::=:::-============================= Local 
Coal shortage declared 
LOGANSPORT, Ind. -A state of emergency due to a shortage of usable coal was declared here last night by the mayor, who said the city's municipal utiltiy may have no coal available by mid-day today. 
''I'm asking industry and businesses in the city and county to either close down or cut back their total operation," said Mayor Martin Monahan after making his city the first in the nation to have an emergency declared due to coal shortages. 

Drivers liable 
INDIANAPOLIS -Drivers would be liable for injuries to their non-paying guest passengers and victims would have a voice in any plea bargaining agreements negotiated with their attackers under bills approved yesterday in the Indiana Senate. 

Weather 
Occasional light sn~~ today, accumulating one inch or less. Highs today in the mid and upper teens. Tonight partly cloudy and colder. Low 5 to 10 degrees. Tomorrow there is a chance of snow 
developing with highs in the upper teens and low 20s. 

_,.On Campus Today_---... 
11 am 
1:15pm 
4:00pm 
7:00pm 
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 8:00pm 
8:30 pm 
9:15 pm 
%Tt1e Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Margie  
Brassil  
layout  Staff:  Bart  Corsaro,  
Chris Slatt  

Features layout: Tony Pace Sports layout: Debbie Dahr­ling, John Calcutt Typists: Gwen Coleman. Stacy Weaver, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin day Editor: Kathy McEntee Copy Readers: Jack Pizzolato, Ann Gales 
Ad layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Ken McAlpine lecture, "corporate takeovers: reasons for and consequence of today's bidding contests," john mcdonough, vice-president and chief financial officer, blount inc. 

lecture, "the silent private placement," robert j. davis, senior vice-president, paine, webber, jackson and curtis. 
seminar, "rotational energy transfer between small molecules and excited rare gases/' dr. daniel h. winicure, nd conference room, radiation lab, sponsored by radiation lab. 
mardi gras dealer's school, lemans. 
meeting, for those interested in teh tokyo program, international student's lounge, Iafortune basement. 
mardi gras dealer's school, holy cross [smc]. 
colloquium, theology colloquium, rev. david burrell, 
c. s .c., memorial library auditorium and lounge, sponsored by theology dept. 
mardi gras dealer's school, mccandless. 
mardi gras dealer's school, regina. 


Elkhart 

1-80-90 at S.R. 19 (219) 262-3691 
Single $12.50-$13.50 I Double $15.50-$11.50 

An Equal Opportunity Employer I Male & Female 

• . ) ~ '\. t ! • f I. • . ....•:· .
-
. . . .. .. .. .... .. .' . ' .
•,"\.. 
I I
( . ,.• ~ .•. t .. ~. ~ t ' "'-I • ' 






Western Europe alerted for poisoned Jaffa oranges 
THE HAGUE, THE NEI'HER­LANDS Vestern Europe issued an alert yesterday for Israeli grown oranges poisoned with mercury in a 
purported Arab-Palestinian 
scheme to sabotage Israel's econ­
omy. 

The Palestine Liberation Organi­zation (PLO) denied that any Palestinians were responsible as claimed in a letter to the Dutch and West German governments from "The Arab Revolutionary Army Palestinian Commando.'' 
U.S. 
government officials said there was no evidence that any of the tainted fruit had reached the United States, and the Israeli Embassy in Washington claimed none of the oranges were for sale in 

U.S. 
stores. 


Five Dutch children were hospi­taJized for mercury poisoning last week after they ate the contamin­ated oranges and became ill, the Dutch Health Ministry reported. 
Students vandalize ND library prints 
may become bored, but they don'tby Sue Wuetcher have the right to deface University property.
The seventh floor of the Memor­"We've gone to a great deal ofial Library has been the site of trouble to provide some decor,"recent student vandalism, accord­Sparks remarked. "I really don'ting to David L. Sparks, director of see the point of providing this justthe University Libraries, and Dr. 
to be destroyed. The next thingGeorge E. Sereiko, assistant direc­you know we'll be issuing boxes of tor of Public Services. 
crayons like they do in kindergar­The area, which houses the 
ten.''
University's Medieval Institute, Sparks commented that the car­has been decorated with various art rels could be removed, but that itprints by Dr. Cano 1 Gabriel, would be unfortunate because theformer director of the Institute. 
study space is desperately needed. 
Sparks said that several of these "What we'd like to do is to engageprints have been defaced by stu­the conscience of the studentdents us~ng ball point pens. "We body," he said. "The prints ascan't repair them, and the cost of University property should not beeach one is approximately $60," he defaced.''
stated. Sereiko noted that the prints had 
been there for years and were .1ever touched until extra study carrels were placed on the floor. 

Sparks said he realizes students 
UNITED 
The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 

TECHNOLOGIES 
Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year CS 10 per semester) trom The 

PRATT & WHITNEY 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, 

AIRCRAFT GROUP
Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Prell. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
WILL BE 
® 
Doctors pumped out the children's stomachs and sent the youngsters home a few days later completely recovered. 
In West Germany, police dis­covered a Jaffa shmora orange containing "a pea-size quantity" of mercury. The fruit was part of a consignment sold to grocery stores in the central industrial city of Darmstadt. 
The sale of Israeli oranges was stopped by trading companies or supermarkets in several European countries and as far away as Greenland. Britain, Belgium, Swi­tzerland, West Germany, Norway and Finland ordered tests on their remaining stocks of Jaffa oranges. 
"So far the problem is of a very small magnitude," said Isaac Lip­kis, spokesman for the Israeli Citrus Marketing Board in Tel Aviv. "We don't think this really applies to a large quantity of oranges.'' 
Health officials said about three cases of the large-sized, juicy oranges were injected with mer­cury somewhere in Europe and that all the tainted fruit had visible brownish markings on their broken skins. Mercury would give the fruit a bitter taste, they added. 
The Dutch and German govern­ments said they received identical letters pinning responsibility on "The Arab Revolutionary Army Palestinian Commando.'' A PLO spokesman in Beirut said he had never heard of the group and called the reports "a mischievous propa­ganda ploy.'' 
The letters, mailed from Stutt­gart, West Germany, and dated Jan:21, warned officials: "It is not our aim to kill the population, but to sabotage the Israeli economy which is based on suppression, racial discrimination and colonial occupation." 
But a letter addressed to 18 European and Arab countries was received by a Western news agency in London and claimed that the Jaffa oranges had been poisoned during packaging operations in Israel. 
The Israeli Foreign Ministry said in Tel Aviv it believed the Jaffa oranges had been injected with a "metallic substance that could be mercury," a liquid metal which can be fatal when ingested. But it declined comment on reports that Arab terrorists were responsible. 
Citrus fruits is one of Israel's major exports, and $172 million worth was shipped abroad in 1976, mostly to Western Europe. 

Sign-up for billiards tournament 
Anyone interested in participat­ing in the annual billiards tourna­ment should sign up in the pool­room (under the Huddle). The tournament begins Feb. 8. 


--------~ 

Thursday, February 2, 1978 the observer

Epidemic proportions? 




Raging virus invades weary campus 
f3 Loretta Hoch 
Armed with shovels and scrapers for battling the drifts of last week's storm, many Notre Dame students are now being forced to trade their snow equipment for aspirin, and orange juice, the only successful weapons for combatting the cam­pus's latest foe-the flu. Through­out Notre Dame, students are succumbing to a virus which is apparently running rampant in the dorms and classrooms. 
The infirmary has reported that this year's outbreak is due to the spread of two types of viruses. One form of the flu becomes concentra­ted in the upper-respiratory region, causing coughing, congestion, and headaches. The other form invades the gastro-intestinal portions of the victim, producing vomitting, nau­sea, and a fever. 
In response to the outbreak, students have been flocking to the Student Health Center. Thirty beds had been filled by early Wednesday morning. 
Because there is no more room in the infirmary, health officials are being forced to tum away many students. But despite long lines, s.-. Marion Ruidle, administrator of the Student Health Center, urgen­tly requested that any student suffering from flu or cold symp­toms, report to the Health Center. 

''Although we are only admitting the very sickest, we can still administor medication and advice to the others;'' explained Ruidle, who is currently working to recruit extra doctors as back-ups for the already over burdened staff. 
"The important thing," Ruidle continued, "is to get the sick people out of the mainstream, where they are exposing their germs to others." It seems that 
Parietal decision due near the end of Feb. 

This sick-looking sophomore was only one of the hundreds of students who swamped the infirmary yesterday. [photo by Ken McAlpine] 

********************************** 
: Many, many thanks to all of the : : full-time employees, supervisors and E ~ student employees of the Dining Halls ; 
d . *

* who worked many extra hours unng * :the snow emergency in order to provide~ :: meals for us. ; 
* *
* * 
* *
* * 

: Your dedication ~ 
* * 
* i* 

: is greatly
* * 
*
!appreciatedII 
* 
****************** 
;__ 
. 
·-. :• u 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
A final decision concerning the 
proposed extension of St. Mary's 
parietals until 2 a.m. on Fridays 
and Saturdays should be made by 
the end of this month, according to 
Student Body President Mary Ru­
kavina. 
Rukavina is, at present, polling 
the college's alumnae board and 
faculty assembly for their opinions 
on the issue, at the request of St 
Mary's President John M. Duggan. 
Duggan does not want to risk 
alienating any significant percen­
tage of the college community 
which would be likely to contribute 
to St. Mary's upcoming fund drive 
for a new library, Rukavina ex­
plained. "And I don't blame him. 
Duggan is a very reasonable man. 
But if we get the support of both 
the alumnae and the faculty, I 
could see extended parietals as a 
reality during the months of 
March, April and May," she 
stated. 
''However, if either of these 
groups are in opposition to us, it 
would seriously hinder us. Our 
case would no longer be a strong 
one. That's a risk we have to 
take," Rukavina said. "I would be 
very disappointed if it failed, but if 
we get no support from either 
group, it would definitely be in 
order for us to sit back and 
reevaluate the validity of our 
proposal,'' she concluded. 
Rukavina will address the 
Faculty Assembly at its Feb. 9 
meeting. She will ask for its 
support and distribute copies of the 
proposal to all members. They will 
then have one week to make their 
individual decisions and return 
Polling of the alumnae board is already in progress. Rukavina should have those results by Feb. 15. 
In addition to the polling of faculty and alumnae, Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice is, at Duggan's request, gathering in­formation from other colleges of similar size about their parietals situation. 
According to Rice, preliminary data shows that the majority of colleges of size comparable to St. Mary's are slightly more liberal, most with visitation on weekends until 1 or 2 a.m. 
"The important thing to remem­ber is that we just want to extend the present policy to be more in line with the reality of student social life. We are not trying to implement a new policy,'' Rice emphasized. 
"I do agree in principle with an extension on the weekends, but I don't think we shfMlld have parie­tals during the week. Too many students don't want them during the week and if our parietals are increased that much, it would be hard to get students to man the parietal desks," she concluded. 
Once Rukavina's polling is com­pleted and Rice's data is compiled, a revised proposal including the new information will be drawn up by Sr. Karol Jackowsky, LeMans Hall director. They will then resubmit it to Duggan for a final decision. 

many students have already gone 
into voluntary isolation, as the 
campus dorms were packed with 
flu victims by Wednesday after­
noon. 
In trying to pinpoint the actual 
time of the flu outbreak, infirmary 
officials and dorm rectors all agree 
that it first became apparent last 
Monday. Since then, it has been 
spreading quickly, affecting stu­
dents to various degrees. 
Ruidle revealed that the Student 
Health Center had been anticipa­
ting the outbreak for some time. 
Explaining that the peak periods for sickness usuaUy occur imme­diately foUowing a break, she elaborated that, "the flu had al­ready spread across the country, enhancing the possibility of any number of students bringing the viruses back in the group-living situating which exists here.'' Confinement to the dorms because of the blizzard increased the chan­ces of the viruses becoming widely distributed, Ruidle said. 
One consoling note is that the Student Health Center officials predict that each person's bout with the bug will not exceed three or four days. In the meantime, Ruidle has stressed the importance of staying warm, eating weU, getting plenty of sleep and visiting the infirmary at the first sign of any sickness. · 
Poetess opens week of Black Cultural Festival 
by Scoop Sulllvan 
Sonya Sanchez, black poetess and scholar, will open the week-long Black Cultural Arts Festival tomor­row at 8 p.m. in the library auditorium, lecturing on "The Liberation Movement and it's Non­Relevancy to Black Women." Readings of original poetry and a discussion will follow the speech. 
A Hunter College graduate, Sanchez engineered the nation's first black studies courses in 1955 at San Francisco State College. At Pitt University, Rutgers, and City College, she was the first person to examine and design courses focus­ing on such subjects as black English and the black woman. Sanchez's works include A New Day, 360°of Blackness Coming at You and A Sound Investment and Other Stories. In 1973 Sanchez visited the People's Republic of China, and she presently serves as Editor-at-large for the Journal of Black Poetry and Black Theatre Magazine. Valerie Hardy, co­chairwoman of the festival, descri­bed Sanchez as an ''effective speaker", adding that she is ener­getic, impulsive, emotional and intense. The festival will continue Saturday with production of Cher Chez La Femme by the Theatre 'N' Action Players from Portsmouth , VA at8:15 p.m. in St. Mary's Little Theatre. '1Even though we could have gotten a big-name speaker," Hardy commented, "I think it's important to give the talent of young black people exposure." 
On Sunday, Rev. Martin Russel, Notre Dame alumnus, will give a service at 7 p.m. in the Alumni Hall chapel. Roy Innes, director of the Congress of Racial Equality (COR 
E) is scheduled to speak on his organization Monday evening. 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery will sponsor a tour through a special 

Staff job available 
at Observer office 
The St. Mary's Observer office is seeking people to staff the office on Mondays and Wednesdays from 
1:30 to 3:30p.m. The same person could work both days or different people could be hired for each day. 
The work involves assigning stories and selling classified ads. This is a paid position. If interested, call Jean at #4001. 
exhibit af African tribal art on Tuesday, Feb. 7, at 1:30 p.m. The tour will be followed by a reception. 
John Sengstacke, owner-and publisher of the Chicago Defender will speak Wednesday evening. Fr. Clarence Rivers, Fr. Edward Braxton and Giles Conwill, all noted theologians, will form a panel Thursday evening to discuss black theology, and Tom Gate­wood, '71, vice-president of the Mutual Black Radio Network, will lecture Friday night on black people in sports. 
Ending the festival on Saturday, Feb. 11 at 8 p.m. in the ACC is a Disco Fashion Show, sponsored by Paul Harris, Casual Corner, J. Riggings and Josephs. Tickets are $2.50 in advance and $3.00 at the door, and can be purchased from Sandy Broadway (1285). There will be an open bar and a dance party after the show. Hardy said she and her co-chairwoman, Monique Spann have tried to schedule many different perspectives on black life 
in  accordance  with  this  year's  
theme,  "Perspectives  on  Black  
America.''  


need resumes in a hurry? 

insly·prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 
25-8 1/2 X 11 $2.65 203 N. Mam ~nd 289-697 
·--T -~--• -----­
Thursday, February 2, 1978
the observer 

In Labor Department suit 
Teamster officials linked to mob 
WASHINGTON [AP)Teamsters 
President Frank E. Fitzsimmons 
and 18 other former officials of the 
union's troubled Central States 
Pension Fund were sued. yesterday 
in a Labor Department effort to 
recover millions of dollars in alleg­
edly bad loans. 
They were accused of having 
"caused great financial harm" to 
the $1.7 billion fund and its 480,000 
beneficiaries through "a series of 
questionable loan transactions." 
Some of the loans were made to 
individuals linked to organized 
crime and were used to finance 
gambling casinos, race tracks and 
risky real estate ventures, govern ­
ment officials said. 
Although Labor Secretary Ray Ma­
rshall acknowledged that the losses 
could involve tens of millions of 
dollars, he indicated little hope of 
recovering the full amount. 
"I expect to get as much as we 
can..." he said, but "obviously if 
there are no assets, you can't get 
blood out of a turnip." 
The Labor Department's civil suit, 
filed in U.S. District Court in 
Chicago, culminated a massive 
investigation of the Central States 
fund begun in 1975 following 
reports of mismanagement and 
alleged ties to organized crime. It 
was the largest action ever brought 
under the 1974 federal pension 
reform law. 
Child abuse bill 
passed by House 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] A child abuse 
bill that was four years in the 
making cleared the Indiana House 
on Tuesday. along with a measure 
outlawing child pornography. 
Rep. Dennis Avery (D-Evans­
ville), 'who has introduced the child 
abuse bill every year since he 
entered the House in 1975, said "I 
think Indiana should come down 
hard on people who abuse their 
children." 
The measure, H.B. 1142, expands 
the definition of abuse to include 
neglect and sexual molestation. It 
establishes a child protection ser­
vice in each country to investigate · 
suspected instances of child abuse 
and provides that persons who in 
good faith report suspected abuse _ 
cases shall be imune from civil or 
criminal liability. 
It was approved 94-2, with Reps. 
Delbert Roe, D-Ligonier, and Don­
ald Boys, R-Indianapolis, voting 
no. 
"Nobody's for child abuse. 
They'd have to be awarded the 
'Monster ofthe Year' award," said 
Boys. • 'The question is whether 
the bill will do the job. The present 
law will do the job , if prosecutors 
get out of their chairs and prose­
cute." 
Boys objected to a provision of the 
measure which sets up counseling 
services for abusive parents. 
"These parents who use blow­
torches on their children, cigarette 
butts, do not need counseling. 
They need something else, more 
permanent, '' he said. 
The bill is expected to cost the­
state $816,000 between 1978 and 
1980 and local government 
$68,550. 
The child pornography measure, 
H.B. 1224, says it obscene for children 16 years old or younger to appear in a depiction of sexual condw..1. It prohibits the photo. graphing, filming or videotaping of any instance of child molesting and raises the penalty for promoting child prostitution. 
Rep. Robert Jones (R-Indianapol­is), sponsor of the bill, said there are no less than 263 magazines in the nation "which capitalize entirely on the sickness of our society by showing children under . the age of three engaging in all 
kinds of sexual conduct.'' 
In calling for the bill's approval, Jones said, "you have a chance to register your disgust for the exist­ance of this material in the state of llldiana.'' It passed 92-o~· · · · _, ..•• 
Fitzsirumons, 69, who succeeded James R. Hoffa as president of the nation's largest union in 1971, resigned under government pres· sure last year as a Central States trustee. 
The resignation fulfilled an agree­ment with the Labor Department under which three other trustees also resigned and turned over control of the fund's assets to private, independent investment managers. In return, the govern­ment restored the fund's tax exem­ption and dropped plans for a lawsuit challenging the fund's in­vestment procedures. 
But that agreement, department officials said at the time, didn't have any bearing on possible future action against the former trustees who, under the 1974 Jaw, can be held personally liable for losses resulting from bad loans or sloppy bookkeeping practices. 
In addition to the four trustees who resigned last year, 12 others quit in 1974 amid government pressure. All 17 were named in yesterday's suit and include nine 
union officials and eight trucking industry representatives. The oth­er two defendants are Daniel Shannon, the fund's current ad­ministrator, and Alvin Baron, the former asset manager who is under criminal indictment in Chicago for alleged involvement in kickbacks. Union officials named in the suit along with Fitzsimmons were vice presidents Roy Williams, Chicago; Robert Holmes, Detroit; Joseph W. Morgan, Atlanta; Jackie Presser of Cleveland; Presser's father. Willia, a former vice president; Donald Peters of Chicago, head of the union's biggest local; Frank H.. Ranney of Milwaukee, and Walter 
W. Teague of Auburndale, Fla. 
Williams and Jackie Presser are regarded as possible heirs to Fitzsimmons. 
Trucking officials named in the suit were Thomas J. Duffey, Mil­waukee; John Spickerman, Orlan­do, Fla.; Albert D. Matheson, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Herman A Lueking, St. Louis; Jack A. Sheetz, Dallas; William J. Kennedy, St. Louis; Bernard S. Goldfarb, Cleve­land, and Andrew G. Massa, Chicago. 
Although the suit involves only civil charges under the pension law, Marshall said his investigators have turned over evidence to the Justice Department for possible criminal prosecution. 
Marshall was interrupted during the news conference by Paul Poul­os, a Teamsters member from Plantation, Fla., who demanded the government remove Fitzsim­mons as union president. But the labor secretary said the 1974 pension law only gave authority to force the removal of pension trust­ees and to recover losses from loans. 
In its complaint, the Labor Department cited several loans involving millions of dollars in which it said the former fund officials "engaged in a pattern of violations of the fiduciary obliga­tions imposed on them" by law. 
Among the complaints was that the ex-trustees failed to get ade­quate information before making loans and to take the proper safeguards necessary to protect 
loans once made. 
The complaint also alleged that 
the former officials failed "to 
discharge their duties solely in the 
interest of the fund's participants 
and beneficiaries" and failed to act 
"with the care, skill, prudence and 
diligence" required by law. 
Foghat concert tix now on sale at Student Union and ACC 
Tickets for the Feb. 27 Foghat 
concert went on sale at 9 this 
morning at both the Student Union' 
and ACC ticket offices. There was 
no lottery for the tickets. 
The Student Union has been allotted only 600 tickets, consider­ably less than the usual 1700, for the concert. The Student Union Ticket Office will be open until 4 
p.m. today and from 12 to 4 p.m. tomorrow. 


Thefact thatThe MBAMcalculator w-as designed for business pr9fessionals is a great reason for buying one w-hile you're a student. 
We designed The MBA to help professionals arrive at fast, ·accurate answers to a broad range of business and financial problems. The same ones you'll face in your busi­ness classes. 
Interest, annuities, ac­counting, finance, bond analy­sis, real estate, statistics, marketing, forecasting, quanti­tative methods and many more course applications are in your hands with The MBA. 
This powerful calculator also features preprogrammed functions that let you perform 
mor-e difficult calculations at the touch of a key. Instantly. Accurately. You may also enter your own programs up to 32 steps long, saving significant time if 
you'redoing repetitive classwork pro!>lems. 
The MBA comes with an illustrated text, "Cal­

culator Analysis for Business and Fi­nance." This new guide shows 
you how simple calculator analysis can be with The MBA calculator. It's 288 pages of understandable, easy-to-follow reading. And it's coupled to more than 100 real-world ex­amples that show you step-by­step how to make calculator analysis work for you as never before. 
If you're building a career in business, The MBA business financial calculator can be one of your strongest cornerstones. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ~ 
••• INNOVATORS IN PERSONAL ELECTRONICS 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
@ 1978 ~e~s_ lnst~ments Incorporated 
INCORPORATED ... I • ... 
-I ~-~ •••
. ' 

t .
.... .,·.. _.,' •'· ·-'. .. I t i. ~ • . •,,.. -•, 
·­

.,..
.. .. 
Thursday, February 2, 1978 
the observer 

Nazareth -Close Enough For Rock and Roll 
by dom salemi and paul wharton 
Nazareth pulled into town the other night to play some of their high voltage rock and roU at the Morris Civic. Although the concert was loud and exciting, it was not nearJy as much fun as talkingto Peter Agnew, bassist and one of the founders of Nazareth. 
''Come in, come in boys,'' Peter said in his thick Scottish brogue as he waved us into his hotel room. "You'll have to excuse me for my appearance lads,'' he continued as he pulled on his pants, "but I just got out of the shower and in the rush to get ready I sprayed me underarms with the mouthwash and me mouth with the bleedin' deordorant. So just hold on a bit while I finish 'ere." 
It was a most inauspicious introduction to a member of a major rock band like Nazareth but then Peter Agnew is not your 
. ordinary rock luminary.  What he is, is a  
wonderfully engaging  Scotsman  who  
enjoys talking almost as  much as playing  

.~azareth's "old fart rock" as he calls it. "Really mates, we're just your typical agressive rock band," he says cheerfully. "We enjoy playing, although we some­times have bad nights, and we get along 
began to play in local nightclubs in and around their hometown. When they finally wearied of playing hackneyed top-forty stuff they added top flight guitarist Manny Charlton and moved to London to work on original material and find a larger audi­ence. After a while they were able to land a record contract but their first two Ips on Warner Brothers didn't sell well. They are collectors editions now and Peter's very happy about that. 
''They were terrible things,'' he admits. ''I hope they never see the light of day again. We were trying to find ourselves then and it wasn't until we switched to A&M that we began to do much better. In fact our third lp, the first for A&M is in many ways our best. It's a damn shame that so much of it is so difficult to perform live." 
Their third lp was Razamanaz. Released in 1973 and produced by ex-Deep Purple bassist Roger Glover, it was a smash in England, yielding the breakthrough singles, "Broken Down Angel" and "Bad, Bad Boy." Later that year, Nazareth had a third hit in the U.K. with an unusual interpretation of Joni Mitchell's "This Flight Tonight." The band was now one of 

together doing what we do.'' 
Yet for all his sincerity Peter was being far too modest. Nazareth is a very special band. They are a group of unpretentious, thoroughly professional musicians who play solid, agressive rock and roll; no mean feat for an outfit these days. 
·-An even more remarkable feat is that the 
nucleus of the band, Dan McCafferty (lead vocalist), Darryl Sweet (percussion), and Peter, have been able to stick together for more than ten years. They started as the Shadettes in Dunfermline, Scotland .as a semi-pro band holding down jobs in the day, while playing at night. 
"Oh, yes. That band," Peter shakes his head wearily. "I wish you hadn't brought that up. It was a forgettable band." But if they were only semi-pro how were they able to support themselves back then? "'Weill had a day job as an architect," 
Peter says, ••and Dan, our lead singer, was an engineer. In fact I used to be the lead singer until Dan joined. I saw what an 
incredible voice he had so I switched to 
bass., 
Just picked it up then? Just like that? 
"Afte about te wt'th the bl dt'n'
r n years ee thing . I think I've acq~ired a certain 
proficiency. But Dan was JUSt so good you 
bow • • 
Nazareth's Peter Agnew made the transition from lead singer to bassist and the group has benefited from it. 
[photos by Sam Cianelli] 

the hott"!st attractions 1n England. 
But Joni Mitchell? What in the world is a heavy metal band like Nazareth doing listening to a soft, melancholy romantic 
like  Joni  Mitchell.  Wouldn't  Black  
Sabbath and Kiss  be  more  likely  to  be  
found on their turntable?  

Pete just laughs, "Black Sabbath? You know the way they play with their arms up and their heads down and the crowd doin' the same? I figure you could just put any band in their place and no one would know the difference. And they're so loud! I remember me and the boys went to see 'em 
one time at home and we just couldn't take it. We went to the bar and sat and watched 
where it was quieter. But the kids! The kids was going nuts and lookin' at us like we were missing the second coming ... " 
"As for Kiss," he continues, "'We first played with them when they were first starting and we had never seen them 
. 

..· . -. •.... , .. , .. •...'· .,•: • ,_.before. They were opemng for us ~d ~OC dropped. These guys with blood and fire dripping from their mouth you know. It was incredible. So I run back stage and get Darrel, our drummer, and I say '"'~rrel you have to see this, it's unbelievauJ€., unbe­lievable.' So I take Darrel out and he looks at me and we both just break up. We figured with tose outfits they would either make it very big or bomb on their asses. Well of course you know the rest lads," Pete shakes his head, ''I mean they were good and everything but...but their finale is their opening act. Smoke bombs and bolts and the like and it just doesn't quit. Hits you right over the head." 
Well if Kiss and Black Sabbath aren't the type of bands the members of Nazareth enjoy listening to, just who do they listen to? 
"Oh, groups like Crazy Horse, softer rock. Emily Lou Harris. Anything by Miss Harris. I even bought the Parsons ... Gram Parsons lp just because Emmy sang back-up vocals.'' 
This revelation reaUy isn't very surpris­ing when you stop to realize that Naza­reth's first big hit in the U.S. was "Love Hurts," a plaintive, melodic piece. 
The single, taken from the Hair of the Dog lp, was released in 1975 and consolidated Nazareth's international success. It was a big hit in Europe as well as England resulting in a headlining tour in countries like Sweden, Finland, Germany and the U.S. and England. 

Yet Nazareth is a touring band, an outfit that feels they must continually expose themselves to as great a segment of the populace as possible if they are to continue as a top concert attraction. They cannot afford to take a year or two sabbatical to work on special projects or merely vaca­tion; they must stay in the limelight. It's a difficult life but it can be an interesting one. 
"Oh yeah, I get bored," Pete admitgs. "Hell, I was watchin' bloody Dick Van Dyke when you came in. Now surely I've. got better things to do than that? 
''But I'll tell you 1 love American 
audiences. Mainly because they're so musically aware. I mean we lads can have a bad night and the crowd will let us know it. It's not like ov.er in England sometimes. 
They just go nuts." 
"A d. the · "p t · d · ts 
n craZies, e e gnns an pom to his head, "the crazies are amazing 
A~er Dan ~cCaft'erty joined, the..band ~~I.. saw the~•. ~~~ ~1?: ..~~~.-~X}~W.}~~.· .:-.sometbnel•..There.wu this on~ time iA 21· ._...... 
Paso. We start to play and this guy is running up and down the aisle waving this cross and screaming. It's frightenin' you know. But after awhile we got used to it an just enjoyed watchin' this lunatic. 
"And you know we come back a year later and the show starts and there's this same looney. It really makes your night when you got some of them in the crowd providin' they're not too dangerous of course.'' 
Well there were no loonies in the Morris Civic crowd last Wednesday night so I don't really know wheter Peter enjoyed himself but the crowd certainly did. Nazareth played a solid, well-rehearsed set mixing their more popular numbers with newer material from their recently released album Expect No Mercy. 
Opening the show was Point Blank, a hard rocking Southern quintet. They are a competent band who play well but pqssess tittle imagination. Their greatest strength is their lead singer but with such trite material and hackneyed arrangements his vocal dexterity is wasted. Point Blank has improved over the course of two Ips; their playing is tighter an their songs are more melodic but they are really nothing more than your average Southern boogie band. 
Nazareth took the stage to a rousing reception which quickly turned to a roar as the bright red letters of their logo lit up at the front of the stage. Charlton and Agnew set up a churning, rhythmic mix that built to a crescendo as Dan McCafferty hit the stage in a haze of smoke. Charlton and Agnew continued to play off one another as they launched into "Telegram" which could almost be considered their signature song. 
It concerns the trials and travails of a steadily gigging unit like Nazareth and how they become dehumanized in their quest for success. Midway through the number McCafferty bowed and handed t[;e song over to the other three members of the band as if to emphasize the fact that it wasn't just the singer that was in this: it was the entire band . 
Suddenly, the band was playing the Byrds classic "So You Want To Be a Rock and Roll Star" with McCafferty exhorting the band and the crowd to close ranks. Climbing to the top of the drum stand, McCafferty surveyed the crowd Jike a Roman emperor admiring his legions from the palace walls and then jumped back down to stage front to belt out "Raza­manaz", an infectious, rhythmic slab of rock and roll. During the number Agnew laid down some bluesy bass Jines under some scorching lead from Charlton while the whole hall rocked in delight. 
The band slowed things down a bit for "Do For You" a bluesy, sexy number well handled by McCafferty but wasted little time in seguing into "Changing Time," a raq, explosive piece that is perhaps Nazareth's most effective composition. Full of dramatic pauses, it allows the singer to hysterically vent his frustration until his voice gives and the band is able to take advantage of the situation by pulling up and roaring over him. Thereafter the singer's voice, weak from all the shouting, gradually fades away. The band then takes some frenetic breaks, picking up the volume as they do. 
Perhaps the most surprising moment in the concert came when Peter and Manny picked up acoustic guitars and the band played "Vigilante Blues" and "'Cocaine". Both numbers were effectively and compel­Jingly performed with lovely harmony added by Agnew, and some nice acoustic slide work by Charlton. 
The rest of the night was devoted primarily to performances of newer mate­rial with "Love Hurts" thrown in to keep the crowd from getting too anxious. "Hair of the Dog'' and the old Y ardbirds hit "Shapes" closed the concert on a fine note amidst a tempest of icy fog. The band dutifully returned for an encore (without McCafferty who had fallen leaving the stage and had hurt his back), and performed the Chuck Berry classic "Sweet Little Rock and Roller' • with Agnew on lead vocals. It didn't go over vecy ·well (the house reaDy wanted McCafferty) but after the number was over, one of my friends who had come with me turned around and said, "You mow, it's too bad that guy picked up the bass because he really cu • 
. ', ' 
s1ng. ..:. :; ..., ...."_"'t_ ~_:") _ ,3,.........,.~li ................. "•'
......~••"-•·~,_ .... 1..~......... -.. ••... ~-· .•:...... 

. ' 
-

-. 
•. 

Thursday, February 2, 1978
the observer 

Says Price ­
Computer meal check saves time 
by Jim Neary unfavorable. Junior Vince Cipolla Casazza stated. longer needs a co-ex ticket to in excess of twenty sheets in the 

stated, .!'It takes longer to insert Other comments included: "It's switch dining halls." 
The computerized system of the I.D. card and wait for the raising our tuition;" "Everything's Edmund Price, director of Food checking student J.D.'s in the computer's validation than to becoming too computerized;" and Services, stated that he is happy dining halls which was installed merely glance at a number and "I think it will eventually break with the new system. Although he this semester, has met with a check it.'' down.'' Several students said they has heard some negative remarks mixed reaction from students, Bill Casazza, a first year M.B.A. felt the lines were noticeably about it, he said he has received no many of whom claim that it has ony student, noticed that it used to be a slower, while abQUt the same official complaints. multiplied the problems it was longer wait after the I.D.' s were number noticed no difference at Price commented that the system meant to solve. checked and before the meal was all. As one student pointed out, is efficient in that it saves both time 
The Observer spoke with a served. Now the wait comes prior "The food can be served only so and labor. Previously, the dining number of students waiting in line to the I.D. check. Thus the fast, anyhow." hall staff had to perform the at the South Dining Hall last week. "different place where the conges-Junior Steve Gray was happy tedious task of double-checking all For the most part, the comments tion is may indicate that the with the new system, as he has of the numbered sheets after every made about the new system were problem lies with the checking," discovered that a student "no meal. This involved cross-checking 
• 
School at any level means reading . . lots of it. Keepihg up with thousands of pages can take a heavy toll in time and energy. and grades. If you're typical. you read 150 to 350 words a minute. But l 
·:-<·::::.: 

.. ·.·.•.·.. 
r 
.

how do you get ahead of the rest? 
Evelyn Wood can triple yourreading rate and improve yourcomprehension and study skills. 
Hundreds of thousands of students use the Reading Dynamics Method. They find reading less of a chore. Concentration and retention improve, which can lead to better grades. A competi­tive edge is 1mportant ... too important for you to delay. 
Prove it to yourself today! 
Whether you're thinking of grad school or the job market. or if you want to keep up with course reaqing today. let Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics give you a competitive edge. 
In fact Evelyn Wood guarantees that you will triple your reading rate if you follow the course correctly. or your full tuition refunded. That's our competitive edge. 
Last Chance to Register for 
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics 
Weekly classes ~eginning Tuesday Feb 7 7-10pm 
.. 

and Wednesday Feb 8 7-10pm 
To enroll or for additional information call Pam Modica collect (312) 236 -1996 

• 
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics.The Competitive Edge. 
Copyreght 1977 Evelyn Wood Reaeleng Oynam•cs Inc 
South Dining Hall alone. The 
computerized system makes this no 
longer necessary. 
Price admitted that the new 
system was costly, but said the 
money spent ''will be offset by 
other savings. Before, many I.D. 
cards were used more than once for 
the same meat. If this happened 
more than once with the same 
student's I.D., the student was 
talked to about it, but if he denied 
it, what could we do? This can no 
longer happen, and with less abuse 
of the meal privilege, money will be 
saved." 
When asked the consequences of forgetting an I. D., Price simply replied, "No one should forget their J.D." He explained that instituting an alternative in such an instance would lead to carelessness on the part of the students. He indicated, however, that in some extreme circumstances the check­ers would probably admit the student without sending him back to his room for his J.D. 
In answer to the problem of lengthy lines, Price pointed out that if all the students come to a meal at the same time, there is simply no way to serve them all quickly. He also explained that if the dining hall staff pushed them­selves to their limit whenever the lines were long, the students would continue to gather for meals in unreasonable numbers, expecting prompt service all the time. If the workers maintain a reasonable pace, the students may learn to arrive at the dining halls at more varied hours, somewhat alleviating the problem, Price said. 
Justice workshop 
set for Feb. 8-9 
by Renee leuchten 
A teach-in on justice, sponsored by the University Committee on Education for Justice, will be held during classes next Wednesday and Thursday for the purpose of developing in students and faculty a greater awareness of justice and how it relates to the various disciplines. Professors will raise issues of justice relevant to the course they are _teaching so as to show the implications of justice in each discipline study. 
The University Committee on Education for Justice was esta­blished last year to encourage an atmosphere of exploration and sensitivity to justice issues and to challenge students to transform what they have learned into posi­tive social action. A report written by the Committee said that it hopes Notre Dame will become "so identified with the concerns of justice that persons and groups throughout the country would turn to us as a matter of course.'' 
The Committee, headed by Fr. David Burrell, and made up of faculty and students, has been responsible for the Weekend for Reflection, new courses with jus­tice themes, the Perspective lec­ture series on justice and a bimonthly Observer justice column. 
Chairperson of the subcommittee on Education for Justice Programs James Sterba believes that as a Catholic institution, an on-going commitment to reflection and action in the area of justice should be Notre Dame's most prominent mission. ''There is no reason this school should not be known for 'justice and football'," said Sterba, a philosophy professor at Notre Dame . 
The justice program at Notre Dame was formed in response to church leaders who have become concerned that Catholic higher education was fulfilling its mission of justice education. The National Catholci Education Association {NCEA) formed a Task Force on Justice Education which is headed by Fr.•Don McNeill of Notre Dame . 
• 
t 


Thursday, February 2, 1978 
the observer 
1 

Carter defends position concerning Canal treaty 
[eoatlaaed &om p. 1) 
"The answer is yes, ' he declared, 
saying the agreement with Panama 
not only provides for this but that 
defepse also is spelled out in a 
statement of understanding he 
·negotiated last August with Pana­
manian leader Omar Torrijos -a 
statement that treaty backers plan 
to incorporate into the accord. 
"I would not hesitate to deploy 
whatever armed forces are necess­ary to defend the canal," Carter asserted, "and I have no doubt that even in sustained combat we would be successful." However, he argued that ratification would act­. ually lessen the possibility of armed confrontation by transfor­ming Panama ''from a passive and sometimes deeply resentful bystan­der into an active and interested partner whose vital interests will be 
served by a sell-operated canal." 
Carter also challenged arguments 
that surrender of the canal to 
Panama after the year 2000 would 
create a "power vacuum" in the Jarea. On the contrary, he said the -'treaty "will increase our nation's influence in this hemisphere, will 
·correction about 
fasting program 
Yesterday's Observer was incor­
rect as to when the pledge forms 
for the Hunger Coalition's Wed­
nesday evening fasting program 
would be passed out. 
Last night was not the night to 
sign up for the fasting program. 
The sign-up date has been moved 
to Wednesday, Feb. 8, with the 
first night of fasting beginning on 
Wednesday, Feb. 15. This change 
is due to last week's blizzard which 
prevented the Hunger Coalition 
from getting the pledge forms 
printed. 
Lyons Hall sponsors Happy Hour 
Lyons Hall will sponsor a Happy Hour at the Library from 3 to 6 p.m. tomorrow. Beers will sell for 25 cents anf mixed drinks for SO cents. 
help to reduce any mistrust and disagreement and will remove a major source of anti-American 1ee& 1'mg... " 
Asking if the United States would pay Panama to take the canal. Carter said there would be U.S. government payments. "Under 
· the new treaty, payments to Pana­ma will come from tolls paid by ships which use the canal,' 'he stated. 
The president noted that the treaty has the strong backing of his Republican predecessor, Gerald Ford, and has been endorsed by Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker of Tennessee, former Secre­taries of State Dean Rusk and Henry Kissinger, every member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and an overwhelming majority of the Sen­
ate Foreign Relations Committee, which has cleared it for floor debate. 

1oth Floor Flanner has its own watchdog. Who's going to challenge a tarantula l [photo by 
Ken McAlpine] 

Gateway to a great way of life. 

DSCLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFlEDSCLASSIFIEDSCLASSIF 
NOTICES 

Bus service to Chicago every Friday. Buses leave circle at 6:05 for tickets and info call Shep 8330. 
Typing done. Reasonable rates. Call 8086 between 7:00p.m. and 9:00p.m. 
Volunteers needed for Recycling Program 1-2 hours per week. Contact John Ryan 8701 or 6413. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at 1 percent monthly interest $20-150. 1 day wait. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 11:15-12:15 M-F 
Typing done. Fast, accurate, reasonable service. Close to campus. Ph. 272-7866 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, Fast Typing MRS. DONOHO 232-(J746 Hours 8AM to 6 PM 
Dissertations, manuscrir.ts, paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda s Letters. 287­4971 
-

Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM C~r~ecting Selectrics. $.85 per page mrnrmum. Call 232-0898. "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
Due to the 'Blizzard of 78', many prepaid classified ads which were scheduled to run in The Observer Friday or Monday have been moved back two issues. If your ad was timely and you wish to request a refund, please bring your receipt to The Observer office Thursday, Feb. 2, be-• tween 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. Thank you. 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT seminars begin Tues., Feb. 7th. For information call Mary 1618 or Emily 6881. 
' .. ... ., ~ I -... ; .. • ; ~ I 4 • • I
"" ... ' a ' I , 1 i. l ~ . a • • I ~ .J I I t l.
1 

FOR RENT 
For rent next school year -two nice houses completely furnished just a couple of blocks from campus, good neighbor­hood, one fou:· bedroom, and one six bedroom with fireplace. Call 277-3604. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat. nite. Special X-mas present. Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
Found: Silver wire-framed glasses out­side ACC before Maryland game. Call 1475. 
Lost: Round 14k gold medal. Size of a quarter has face of sun with a crack on medal. Also a gold Italian horn. Lost Thurs. Jan. 26 morning between Fisher & Dining Hall. Substantial Reward! Call Mike 3010. 
Found: A black wallet behind Lyons Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed are an Indiana Driver's license, work 10 and Library card. Call to identify at 1715. 
Found: Pair of wire-rimmed glasses in a 
brown cigarette-type case  on  the  road  
between the Library and  O'Shag.  Call  
8842.  

Lost: Set of keys by ACC Ice RinK. Honda key. Please call 277-()222., 234-8279 or turn in to rink Pro Shop for Thelma. 
Lost: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
Found: One dog. Call 1580 or 3815 to identify. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area after Wed­nesday. Call Val 7088. 
Need up to four Ga tickets for aNY HOME BASKETBALL GAME. Preferab­ly DePaul. Call Pat 1!>68. 
Need several Marquette tickets. Call Brian at 272-5843. 
Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your price. Call Russ at 8772. 
Am interested in purchasing a bunch of tickets for N D vs. Marquette game. Call John 283-3829. 
Help: Need Marquette tix. Will pay good $. Call 283-8830. 
2Marquette tix. Will pay reasonable sum of$. Call1612. 
I need someone to repair a Panasonic portable B&W TV. Will pay cost plus. Call Steve 288-D088. 
Need 2 Marquette Ga tickets. Ci!ll Diane 7883. 
House parent, room & board & $85 per week tax free. Close to campus; flexible hours. 232-4805. 
I need 2 GA Marquette tickets real bad. George 1248. 
1or 2B-ball Davidson Ga tix. Call John at 
8209. 

4 DePaul tix -together or 2 pairs. Call Chip1151. 
Thanks Chip. 

Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
One, two or three female roommates needed for Campus View Apartments. Call 7060. 
2 Davidson B-ball tlx. Call Dave 8107. 
Need students for short-term, part-time employment with the American Lung Association. Must have own transpor­tation. $2.65 hr. plus gas. 287-2321. 
Need 6 DePaul hoops tickets, not neces­sarily together. Tony 7781. 
Notre Dame Karate & TaeKwonDo Club 
INVITES ALL MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY INTERESTED IN BE· GINNING THE STUDY OF KARATE AND SELF DEFENSE TO ATTEND AN 
introductory meeting at the 
A.C.C. (Auxiliary Gym) on
• 

Thursday, February 1 at 6.00pm. 
ALSO, PERSONS WITH PRIOR EXPERIENCE IN THE MARTIAL ARTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO TRY OUT FOR THE NEWLY FORMED INTER-COL· 
LEGIATE TEAM. 
~ 

I need 2 GA or student tickets to DePaul! Call Louis at 1207. 
Wanted: Weekend householder for local halfway house facility. Overnight stay required. Small salary, room & board, and excellent experience. Call 234-1049 for further information. 
Need up to 2 people to sublet NO ave. ap., now until May. Call Beth 6722. 
FOR SALE 
3-4 bedroom quadlevel; family room with fireplace; stove, refrigerator, dishwash­er, humidifier; custom-made drapes; professionally landscaped; 5 minutes from Notre Dame. Low 50's. Call after 6 p.m. 272-8308. 
19.6 Coachman Travel Trailer; like-new condition; sleeps 6; self-contained. $3300.00 Call after 6 p.m. 272-8308. 
Stereo for sale. Turntable, receiver, 8-track, speakers. Call Mike 232-osso. 
Full color Catton Bowl plctum now available. Call 8982. 
BSR turntable with walnut base, dust­cover. Call 7077. 
2 G tix for NC State and Holy Crtoss. Call 1159. 
Pair Fisher two-way speakers. Good condition. Call Drew 1487. 
PERSONALS 
Need 4 G tix for Marquette. SMC 4530 Betsy. 
Haircuts cheap. Styles, trims. SMC 4530. Betsy. 
LASSIFIED 
Judo Club will be meeting Monday's, 6:30-8:00, ACC wrestling pit, starting Feb. 13. Trainer session (5 classes) starts Feb. 1. Call Curt, 8711 for more info. 
MKB, 
Congratualtions on your 650! But mostly, 
thanks for being around. 
HJ 
Chrissy Romano, I love you every minute of every day! Danny 
SCHOLASTIC Positions now open writ­ing -production staffs. Writers meet!ng 
7:00 p.m. Sun. Feb. 5. Productron workshop 6:30 p.m. Mon. Feb. 6. Be there! 
Attention Mardi Gras Dealers! Dealer's schoo~s will be held today in LeMans, 7 p.m., Holy Cross (SMC), 7:45 p.m., McCandless, 8:30 o.m., Regina, 9:15 
p.m. All prospective dealers and money holders must attend. 
Hey DaVid -(265) Your very own Personal -see below 
It's my turn to have the lights adjusted on St. Mary's Road. EMB-444 
Missy, What Is the real story about the Snow angels on the lake? 
Jane, Tina, Trigs, 444 




/ 
! 
} 
l 
t 
l l 
i 
f \ 
l t 
t 
\ ·­

I. 
l 
) 
l 
. i 
' 
I 
i 
~ 
if ' I t 
f 
I jI , 
' i 

----~ 

a 
8 the observer Thursday, February 2, 1978 


Irish cagers outlast Explorers, 95-90 
by Craig Chvai secured the Irish victory with a pair to stay. Sports Writer of dunks off passes from Kelly 
A balanced Notre Dame attack
Tripucka in the final minute of the 
hiked the lead to ten points, 52-42, 
game. 

and it appeared that the Irish were Notre Dame's basketball squad Notre Dame was cold offensively on the verge of breaking the game
posted its eighth consecutive win, at the outset of the contest, and 
open, but once again it was the 
95-90, at the expense of LaSalle's quickly feB behind 6-0 before Jeff 
sensational sophomore Brooks who Explorers Wednesday night, but it Carpenter's 20-footer broke the ice. kept LaSalle within striking dis­was hardly an artistic success. The 
Thanks mainly to easy fast break tance. After once again hooking up Irish defense, which according to baskets that caught the Irish nap­with teammate Kurt Kanaskie to Coach Digger Phelps, played its ping, and strong work under the burn the Notre Dame defense for 
most outstanding game of the offensive boards by Brooks, the an easy fast break, Brooks powered 
season in Sunday's 69-54 win over Explorers held the upper hand 
inside for a three-point play a the 
Maryland, did little to distinguish throughout much of the first half. 
expense of Batton, and the Irish 
itself, as sophomore forward . 
An HS-foot jumper by Rich lead was sliced to 52-47. 
Michael Brooks riddled Notre Branning gave the Irish their first 
Notre Dame led 57-49 at the
•Dame for 39 points. 

lead ofthe evening, 31-29, near the 
intermission, and by the 16:00 
Duck Williams led the Notre midway point of the first half. But 
mark of the second half, the Irish 
Dame scoring parade with 23 good inside work by Brooks pulled 
were on top by 14, thanks to the hot 
points, canning 11 of 17 _shots from the Explorers into deadlocks on two 
shooting of Williams and Tripucka, 
the floor in a standout reserve straight trips down the court before 
who threw in six quick points in the 
performance, while Dave Batton consecutive baskets by Branning 
early going of the second half. 
added 21. It was sophomore center and Batton made the score 37-33, 
The Explorers' deficit reached
Bill Laimbeer, however, who and the visitmg Irish were in front 71-57 before LaSalle began to claw its way back into the game, sparked by reserve Tony Plakis, who came off the bench to score eight of his ten points in the second half.
St. Louis? LaSalle's hopes suffered a severe jolt when Brooks was whistled for his fourth foul and left the game with 5:40 to play and the Explorers trailing 83-76, but the hosts were 
In the immortal words of Engineer Scott on Star Trek--"lt's never been able to force several turnovers off done before." "IT" being a school capturing both the national Notre Dame's spread-out offense to championships in football and basketball in the same year. For Notre stay in the ,game. Dame to have an opportunity to become the first school to earn such an When Plakis snuck inside Laim­honor, the Irish cagers will have to do something they've "never done beer to grab a rebound and get the before." ball downcourt to set up Kanaskie's 
In fourteen NCAA tournament appearances dating back to 1953, Notre 18-footer, LaSalle was back in Dame has never survived the regionals to reach the national semi-finals. b~siness, 85-80. The Explorers Only UCLA and Kentucky have been in the post-season play-offs more proceeded to steal the ball, but often than the Irish, but in tournament action the Irish basketball fortunes failed to take advantage of the have been a study in futility. On three occasions, the last in 1958, the Irish turnover. Williams then came did manage to make in to the regional finals. But since that time, some 10 down the floor and fired in a appearances later, the Irish have failed to make it as far as the "elite 12-footer, and followed up byeight.'' stealing the ball, and it looked like 
the Irish had things well in hand,
In each of the last four seasons under Digger Phelps, the Irish have captured their first-round encounter only to suffer elimination in the leading 87-80 with under two 
minutes to play.
Thursday evening regional semi-finals. How do things shape up for this year? LaSalle's Jim Wolkiewicz stole the ball back, however, and sank
There are many pretenders for the national title this year as things are 
both free throws when fouled.
running exactly the same as they did last winter. Kentucky, although once-beaten, is this season's San Francisco, assuming the driver's seat Tripucka then spotted Laimbeer 
under the hoops for his first dunk
atop the polls. UCLA appears to be the class of the West, but the return of 
"\ .....
the previously injured Bill Cartwright at San Francisco makes the Dons a before Brooks retalliated with a .~· 
follow-up. After Laimbeer split a
possibility. Across the country on the East coast, last year's surprise--the 
pair of free throws, Darryl Gladden 
Tar Heels of North Carolina are weathering the occasional surprises that 
ripped from 12 feet out to make it a
they find in ACC pl~y while Providence and Syracuse are making waves in 
the wintry Northeast. four-point contest, 90-86. Two pressure baskets by Bill laimbeer clinched the 95-90 victory over LaSalle last night at the Palestra in Philadelphia.
Marquette was recently dumped by Loyola of Chicago but that was only But another Tripucka-to-Laim­[photo by Doug Tretiak]their second loss of the season. Remember, they had seven losses going beer slam dunk that was good for a into the tournament last year, and copped the crown with heady pressure three-point play slammed the door play in the play-offs. Indiana State has been pumping out information on the gutty Explorers, and the praising the four guys who play in the line-up with superstar Larry Bird, Irish escapted Philadelphia and the 
Rams tab Allen
but they've been reading their press instead of playing and suddenly the Palestra with their fifteenth win in Sycamores have disappeared in the ratings. The Big Ten is becoming eighteen outings. LaSalle dropped more and more confusing with every upset as Michigan State found out at to 11-8 with the loss. Notre Dame 
I.U. last Monday night. The Big Ten titleholder will be well-tested and returns to the ACC to host David­
as head coach 
seasoned for the tournament. son Saturday afternoon. 
How do the Irish stand against these contenders and the likes of LOS ANGELES [AP] -George hired as colch of the Buffalo Bills. Arkansas, Kansas and Holy Cross? The strength of the Notre Dame Rally to honor Allen took over again as coach of 
Much of the criticism of Knox

schedule will prove a plus ifthe Irish can win games as handily as they did the Los 'Angeles Rams W ednes­centered on what many considered
against Maryland. Up until that contest, the Irish had not shown the . day, saying that getting to the a lackluster offensive performance. 
ability to put a team away in a tough contest. This lack of killer instinct ND football team Super Bowl was the No. 1 objective The criticism reached a climax
could cause wear and tear on the team, both from a physical and mental and adding, "I don't think we have when the Rams lost to Minnesota
standpoint, as the weeks wind down toward tournament time. Against A rally, honoring the 1977 to get there this year, but that is 14-7 in the . opening round of theboth Villanova and UCLA, the Irish gained double-digit leads in the early National Championship Notre certainly our goal." 
1977 Super Bowl playoffs.

part of the second half only to squander those leads into cliff-hanging Dame football team, will be held 
Owner Carroll Rosenbloom 
contests. A great team jumps on opponents, both good and bad, and under the joint sponsorship of the Allen compiled a 49-17-4 record
earlier had announced that Allen,
controls the game for the remainder of the contest. UCLA's past South Bend -Mishawaka Area with the Rams in his five years here
who coached the Rams from 1966­
championship squads have used that as their trademark. Slowly and Chamber of Commerce, the St. and earned playoff berths in both
70, would be returning to the job
methodically they would build a lead with the press, solidifying the Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club, from which he actually had been 1967 and 1969. outcome early in the game. the Quarterback Club and the fired twice. The late Dan Reeves, The initial playoff appearance
Student Government this Sunday,
· Against Maryland, Digger Phelps' squad did just this in the second who owned the Rams at that time, was the Rams' first title in a dozen
February 5, at 4 p.m. in the ACC
half. After battling basket for basket in. the opening stanza, the Irish dismissed Allen in 1969 but years.
arena.
vaulted to a lead and for the first time thjs season held on to it against an brought him back amid objections His overall record in 12 years asable-bodied opponent. With tough games stu! to come against Holy ABC-TV's "Wide World of to the firing from players and fans. 
an NFL head coach is 116-47-5.

Cross, DePaul, South Carolina, North Carolina State, and Marquette, the Sports" plans to cover portions of A coach returning to ateam from
real challenge is only just beginning. Digger claims that 20 wins will get the event. ABC will briefly show When he was fired by the
which he has been fired is highly
him into the tournament. But it will be the method in which those the forming of the rally at 3:30 Redskins Jan. 18, owner Edward
unusual. Lou Saban did it at
remaining victories are earned that will be ind1catfve of whether or not this p.m. and then televise live cover­Bennett Williams said, "I was
Buffalo, but there are no other
squad will play to its potential and do something "that's never been done age at 4 p.m. when the team and convinced he was negotiating with
modern parallels.
befort.. •· coaches enter the arena for the Los Angeles and I was determined The next year Allen was fired
The fieldhouse of the ACC will be the site for this year's Natipnal start of the program, The entire not to sit and react to what Los Catholic Invitational Wrestling tournament this Sunday -all students will event is scheduled to last until 5:35 again and went to Washington, Angeles did about it, and I so be admitted free of charge with the finals slated for 8 p.m... Dave p.m. where he headed the Redskins advised him." 
seven seasons.
DiSabato, Pat McKillen and Bob Golic will be defending champions for During the course of the rillly, Allen had verbally agreed, butThe 56-year-old Allen has 12the Irish ... the Women's Basketball team under the direction of first"year many of the championship trophies not signed, a four-year extension of years' head coaching experience in
coach Sharon Petro is undefeated at this writing ... the women are 5-0 and will be on display. Also, highlights his contract in Washington for a
the National Football League and
will play at Marquette tomorrow and host the Belles of St. Mary's on from the entire season, including reported $150,000. 
had been both coach and genera?
Monday evening in the first game of the two-game "shuttle series". the 38-10 Cotton Bowl victory over 
manager at Washington. was the for
ABC's Wide World of Sports will be on hand for Sunday's tribute to the Texas, will be shown. That same figure 
which Knox had signed in Los

National Champion Football Irish ... the festivities are slated to begin at 4 "I'd like to thank everyone that Rosenbloom refused to disclose Angeles before given permission to p.m. in the Arena and ABC will be shooting a scene-setter clip sontetime has helped to organize this rally," Allen's salary, but said he had negotiate with other clubs includ­between 3:30 and 4:00 so the students are urged to get there early ... the Head Coach Dan Devine remarked. signed a multiyear contract. 
ing Baltimore. 

Irish swimmers will be in action tomorrow against Butler at 4 p.m. and "But especially, I'd like to thank Chuck Knox, who guided the Saturday against St. Bonaventure at 2 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial...the the students. They did a lot for us Rams to five consecutive National He denied having negotiations fencing team will alsr · ~t home this weekend as they will meet four this season and were behind us all Football Conference division titles, with the Rams before being fired at teams Saturday morn ... ~ u1 the ACC. the way." quit under pressure. He has been Washington. 








