
Contract negotiators announce tentative UMW strike agreement 
WASHINGTON [AP]-Negotia­tors reached agreement yesterday on contract terms that could end a record 63-day nationwide strike that has shrunk winter coal stock­piles and forced cutbacks in electri­cal power. 
The tenative pact was announced at a news conference by United Mine Workers (UMW) President Arnold Miller and chief federal mediator Wayne L. Horvitz. 
"I think this is a good tentative agreement," said Miller, empha­sizing that it would restore pension and health benefits that have been cut off to some UMW members. 
The proposed settlement would mean an increase of almost 37 percent in wages and fringe bene­fits for miners over a three-year period. 
Miller said he would present the tentative agreement to his 39 member bargaining council this morning and would urge its appro­val. 
The bargaining council's consid­eration of the proposed contract is the first step in a ratification process that normally takes about 10 days. Even after ratifica­tion it likely will be several more days before coal moves again through the supply pipeline. 
Approval by the bargaining council is not a foregone conclu­sion. Its members rejected one proposed contract agreement in 1974 before accepting a second one. 
Miller declined to predict whe­ther the council would approve the terms but he appealed to all UMW members to urge their representa­tives to accept the proposed pact. 
The Bituminous Coal Operators Association declined comment on the tenative agreement. Its 130 members also must ratify any contract, but that proce~s is viewed largely as a formality. 
Labor Secretary Ray Marshall said in a statement that he was delighted at the tentative settle­ment and said ''this is a fair contract, genuinely good for both parties." 
"The strike has meant great suffering for UMW members and their families," Marshall said. ''The losses to the coal companies are reckoned in the tens of millions of dollars and the strike has brought the country perilously close to widespread coal shortages in the midst of a severe winter." 
Horvitz, announcing the conclu­sion of negotiations which began four months ago, said, 
"We have reached a tentative 
agreement which I hope will end 
this protracted and difficult 
strike." 
But he emphasized that the accord was only tentative, pending approval by the bargaining council and the UMW's rank and file. 
Horvitz also thanked West Vir­ginia Gov. Jay Rockefeller for his "protractedefforts" in assisting the negotiations. 
Rockefeller made an unexpected appearance at the news conference and put in a pitch for ratification of the contract. He said the proposed terms meet the "human needs" of union members, thousands of whom live in his state. 
[continued on page 3] 


CLC organizes, accepts by-laws 

SBP Dave Bender and Executive Coordinator Joe Gill listen attentively to various comments at last night's CLC meeting. [Photo by Ron Szot.] 
Mishawaka chief plans to resign 
MISHAWAKA, Jnd. [AP]-De­caring himself the target of a smear campaign, Mishawaka Police Chief Jay E. "Pete" Steblbins announced yesterday that he was resigning, effective March 1. 
Assistant Chief Quinto Squa­droni, who with Stebbins was the subject of recent investigations by the city council and the St. Joseph County prosecutor, also. submitted his resignation. 
The prosecutor's office conclud­ed its probe last week and declared there was no evidence to support charges of criminal conduct. 
Stebbins, who appeared l>efore the Board of Public Works with attorney Wilfred J. Mayette, said that since he had been cleared of 
Mishawaka restaurant owner and there was a threat I was going to be shot."
convicted gambler Julius C. W er­brouck Jr. as the force behind the Werbrouck, who also attended 
alleged conspiracy to drive the the board of works meeting, denied chief from office. Werbrouck, who any effort to force Stebbins from 
office.
operates the Lincoln Highway Inn and the adjoining Holiday Inn, was "That's completely erroneous. convicted on federal gambling It's nothing more than reaching at charges after a raid by local police 
straws by the chief, • • declared and the FBI in January, 1977. Werbrouck, adding he was shocked by the resignation. "Ithoughtthat a
Stebbins, who once worked part man of Stebbins integn'ty wouldtime at one of Werbrouck's esta­never have resigned in this kind of blishments, offered testimony last a sitUation."
fall against Werbrouck, who was Werbrouck also asked Stebbinsfined $20,000 and placed on a to return a key which the chief had year's probation. 
in connection with his former job at 
"I firmly believe that had it not Werbrouck's restaurant, a request been for the joint raid, this conspir-that Mayette termed a pretext to acy to 'get Pete Stebbins' would come before the board in "another 
by Kathleen ConneUy 
Staff Reporter 

The newly-created Campus Life Council (CLC) held its first meeting last night and voted to accept a set of by-laws proposed by the Student Government. The 17-member body also discussed other related organi­zational matters and delivered its first proposal to Vice-President for Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny. 
Fr. Eugene Gorsky, rector of Howard Hall, dissented in the vote on the by-laws, saying that mem­bers had not had sufficient time to consider specific aspects of the document. Gorsky was told that due to procedural rules in the preamble written by the Board of Trustees, the next oportunity for a vote on the by-laws will be in three weeks. 
The preamble states that the vice-president for student affairs and the dean of Students will attend every third meeting. Reso­lutions, however, may not be voted on unless all members are sche­duled to be present, that is, every third meeting. 
Future · meetings, the council decided, will be held at 7 p.m. on Wednesdays in th.econference room in Keenan Hall. The meetings are open to be public. The council also discussed its purpose, as stated by the Board of Trustees, and the appointment of a permanent histor­ian and secretary for the Council. 
The CLC also deals with specific technical difficulties, such as di­viding two votes between five temporary faculty representatives until April, when two regular staff members will be selected by the Faculty Senate. 
A highlight of the meeting was a 
proposal by the Student Govern­ment to keep LaFortune Student Center open 24 hours a day. The 
proposal was suggested as a partial solution to the problem of social space in the halls after parietals. 
Specific details of the plan have 
not yet been worked out. Members 
questioned whether it was neces­
sary to keep the Student Center 
open 24 hours seven days a week,
h h 4 1 · 1
or w et era a.m. c osmg severa days a week would be more suited
d

to student nee s. 
p "d h h ld
aczesny sat t at e wou take
th 1 d "d · d
e p an un er const eration an
b d · :h d · · · 
e rea Y wtt a ectston m one to 
two weeks after consulting LaFor­
tune director Br. Francis Gorch. 
Paczesny asked for "some wor­ted. 
The council serves as an advisory 
body and prepares resolutions for 
the vice president for Student 
Affairs. The CLC is composed of 
six rectors (three from each quad), 
four hall vice-presidents, and one 
representative each from student 
government, Student Union, and 
the Hall President's Com;.cil, two 
representatives from the Faculty 
Senate, the vice-president for Stu­
dent Affairs, and the dean of 
Students. 
The CLC was established last 
October to replace the Student Life 
Council. The purpose of the new 
group, as set forth in the 
preamble of the by-laws ts "to 
provide a forum where students, 
faculty and administrative person­
nel can discuss matters concerning 
student affairs and make 
appropriate recommendations rela­
tive to hall life directly to the 
vice-president for Student 
Affairs.'' 
Members of the student body will 
have an opportunity for direct 
involvement in formulating recom­
mendations by serving oa special 
committees for the CLC. 
CLC Chairman Dave Bender said 
that he was impressed with the 
enthusiasm of CLC members and is 
pleased the council is finally in 
operation. The establishment of a 
firm base for an independent and 
strong organization was cited by 
Bender as the reason for the 
lengthy delay in getting the CLC 
operating. 
Bender said that he wanted to be 
certain that "whoever is elected to 
Student Body President next will 
have a clearly defined set of 
directives and purposeful organiza­, tion to work with." 

Hey Folks 
Come to our open house at the 
Observer 
never have mllterialized," Stebbins attempt ... to smear the chief." king time" to investigate security 
the allegations, he: was retiring 
wrote in his letter to the board. "I Stebbins said he had lost the key. and other aspects of the proposal. 
after 23 years of service to 
See Details, p.
was informed there was going to be Mayor Margaret H. Prickett said "Security is my main concern. You
spare himself and his. family fur­
a smear campaign started against she would select a new chief within have to have security and you have 
ther anguish. Stebbins· and• Ma3rette identified · me tO reinove me··froin ·myjob and·, · a ~hort time. c • . .4 • ·. tq P(lY ,(or.!t:," Paczesny <:Om~.~­
----·---­
., 

•,.•. ··;: ' 'It. ,'r• 
I • •' 
Tuesday, February 7, 1978
the observer 

News Briefs____...,_. 


t==========================World 
Chinese celebrate New Year 
HONG KONG-The Year of the Horse replaced the Year of the Snake at midnight yesterday and millions began lunar New Year festivities here and in China, Vietnam, Thailand, Korea, Burma and Taiwan. Tens of thousands of last minute shoppers swarmed Hong Kong streets in the afternoon and night. Most were fighting for time to round up all the necessary goodies--candles, lotus seeds, fruits, nuts as well as new haircuts, clothes and shoes. 

J:::::::======================== National 
Blizzard sweeps NY City 
NEW YORK -The second blizzard within three weeks pummeled the metropolitan New York area with savage force yesterday, bringing most of the city to a standstill. Up to a near-record 17 inches of snow was forecast by midnight, and gale force winds were expected to pile it head high. By late evening, the National Weather Service reported more than a foot of snow had accumulated in Manhattan, within 3 to 4 more inches expected. 

Strangler so-,ght 
LOS ANGELES • Mayor Tom Bradley said yesterday he had received a letter from a man claiming to be the Hillside Strangler and invited him to surrender to the mayor's office. Bradley said in a statement that the unidentified man "wishes to surrender himself and a friend to the mayor's office. Police say the strangler has killed a dozen girls and young women in the Los Angeles area in the past four months. 
On Campus Today_---...~ 
1:30p.m. 2 p.m. 
3:30p.m. 4:15p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
6 p.m.­midnight 7~9, & 11 p.m. 7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m. 

african traditional art exhibition, tour nd art gallery sponsored by beat 
conference, college/industry dialogue, sponsored by 
ill. & ind. members of national association of manufacturers, smc dining hall 
computing center, t.s.o. tricks, continues on feb. 9, sponsored by computing center, 115 ccmb 
gilbert lecture series, speaker jack kauffman, pres. & chief exec. officer newspaper advertising bureau, inc., sponsored by marketing club, mem. lib. aud. 
seminar, "human tick-borne babesiosis in new england" by dr. andrew spielman, harvard univ., sponsored by biology dept., galvin life science 
lecture "literary biography: how (and how not)", by nd prof. emeritus carvel collins, sponsored by english dept., galvin aud. 
colloquium "fast helmholtz solvers on general regions" by dr. arthur s. shieh, univ. of wisconsin, 226 ccmb 
expo nd, mardi gras '78, live entertainment, refreshments, stepan center 
film "silver streak," eng. aud. 
meeting ladies of nd, program: decision making workshop conducted by dr. kathleen rice, mem. lib. 
aud. & lounge eucharist charismatic eucharist log chapel, open 


Weather 

Partly cloudy today with a chance of light snow near Lake Michigan 
and highs in the low teens. Partly cloudy tonight with lows around 
zero. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs around 20. 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 




COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOl].R HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon-Sat 8 to 6 

Next to the Distillet 

Illness subsides at St. Mary's 
by Anne Hackle Staff Reporter 
The wave of "upper respiratory 
infection" which swept St. Mary's 
campus last week is beginning to 
subside, according to Health Ser­
vices Director Verna Wood. 
"The worst seems to be over," 
Wood said after seeing yesterday's 
new patients. "I would guess that, 
of the patients we have seen, 
maybe a hundred are still sick," 
she added. 
The infirmary started seeing 
people with the now-familiar sym­
toms of headcold, cough, fever and 
chest pains after last Sunday's 
Maryland basketball game, accor­
ding to Wood. 
The peak was last Tuesday, when at least one hundred new cases were reported during a 24-hour period. Since then, the number of new cases has been declining. 
Charles Flaim, SAGA Food di­rector, noted that on Thursday the dining hall filled "around 120" sicktrays, adding that "on a normal day it would be about eight or ten.'' 
He observed that the number of sicktrays sent out has declined since Thursday, but added that there is usually a reduced number of students attending the dining hall for weekend meals. Flaim hesitated to say whether this indicated the sickness was dimini­shing. 
Wood estimated that during all of last week the infirmary saw 475 students, putting to rest rumors that some 1300 St. Mary's students had visited the infirmary last week. 
"All the dorms have been in­fected," Wood noted, explaining 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank Kebe Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson Layout Staff: "Willy" Foster, Tim Sullivan, Sheila Foss, Peggy Miller Editorial Layout: Martha Fan­ning Features Layout: Tony Pace Sports Layout: Debbie Dahr­ling Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Tricia Meehan, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Ad Layout: Bob & Steve Photographer: Ron Szot 
The Observer 11 published Mon­dey through Frldey except during exem end vec:etlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by tile students of Notre Deme end S.lnt Mery'a College. Subacrlptlons mey be purchesed for uo per yeer (SID per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 46556. Second dell postege peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 46556. 
The Observer Is e member of the Anocletecl Prell. All repro­duction rlghta ere reaerved. 
Corby's & 
H. Walter Corp. host a 





BEER 

& TEQUILA
PAR 

two-fingers Tequila & soda shot SOt 
lympia drafts so~ 
T -shirt Raffl$ 
why no areas were quarantined. "We also notified the teachers that there would be a high rate of absenteeism for the next few days," she added. 
Wood noted that the sickness going around has not been deter­mined to be flu. She was additionally quoted in a South Bend Tribune article last Friday as saying the campus was not exper­iencing an epidemic. 
She stressed the importance of students getting "lots of rest and lots of fluids" if they are sick. "It will take four or five days before the student begins to get better," she explained, voicing concern for students who become impatient when they have not recovered after a day or two. 


For several days last week, senior nursing students were called in to help out at the infirmary. They relieved staff members who were snowed-in, as well as assis­ting with the increased numbers of patients who overflowed the seven­bed infirmary. 

Being o missile launch officer in the Air Force is on awesome respon­sibility. But irs on exciting job with leadership opportunity from the word ··go". 
. Air Farce ROTC con help you prepare for this exciting field by gront­mg two, three or four-year scholarships. These will pay for tuition. books, and lob fees, and give you SlOO a month for some of your other college expenses. 
Then, if you con qualify for the missile field, you con work on on ad­vanced degree through special graduate education programs, and the Air Force will help wi1h the expenses. 
_If you·re the type who·s lookinQ for on exci~ng future, o future of com­mitment and pnde. look mto th1s one See 1f you qualify to be on Air Force missile launch officer. and help perpetuate the traditions that have mode our country great. 
Get the details right away. You"ll be glad you did. 
Contact Capt. Davis at 283-6634. 
0 


Tuesday, February 7, 1978 
the observer 
Possible women lecturers discussed at SMC 
of The Feminine Mysdque, and News Briefs" and was one of
by Molly Woulfe The Assembly then passed a requested that students with ideas
founder of NOW (National Organi­ABC's first floor reporters during
St.aff Reporter resolution allowing students to for An Tostal contact John Rooney, 
zation for Women). the 1976 Democratic and Republi­cash checks in the dining haU chairman of the An Tostal contactWilma Rudolph, the first and can conventions. 
during Saturday dinners, from committee.St. Mary's Student Assembly only American woman to win 3 Ellen Goodman, social commen­4:30-6 p.m., and during Sunday The Assembly consists of Ruka­
met last night in the Regina Olympic Gold Medals in one tator and author of the brunches, from 11:30 a.m. to 1 vina, Cathy Hedges, vice-president 
Student Government office to dis­Olympiad (she established 3 world nationally synoicated column "At p.m. This service will begin the of Academic Affairs; Kathy O'Con­cuss possible lecturers for Wo­records in the 1960 OlympiCs in Large." weekend of Feb. 25-26. Students nell, vice-president of Studentmen's Week and to pass a new Rome in the 100,200,and 400 meter Caroline Bird, author of Enter­must present ID's and 10 cents for Affairs; Mary Beth Leisle, treas­policy for weekend check-cashing. races). Her first book, WUma, is prb;ing Women, a series of profiles 
each check cashed. Members of urer; Beth Leahy, secretary, and 23Nancy Mogab, senior class presi­the story of how she overcame polio of female entrepreneurs in Amer-the Assembly next approved representatives from all SMC dor­dent, presented candidates for the to become an international sports ica. 
motions to install more call boxes mitories. The Assembly meetsguest speaker during Women's champion. The final decision on which on campus for security reasons, again in two weeks.
Week, scheduled for April 3-8. Ann Compton, the first woman to speakers will be asked to partici­and the installation of a telephoneNominees include: be named a full-time White House pate in Women's Week does not for student use in the library.Betty Friedan, the foremost correspondent. She anchors the rest with the Student Assembly, Mary Rukavina, president of Health Center speaker forwomen's rights, author Saturday night edition of "ABC Mogab indicated. 
SMC's Student Government, also 
denies rumors 
Negotiators hope to end coal strike .~:;:;;•e;:.~~~~~~~::;"~~~ 

. [continued from page l]Th b H · 
e statements y orvttz, Miller and R01:kefeller appeared to be the first push by officials to win 
ratification of the tentative con­tract. In a statement, Miller labeled the proposals "by far the best agreement negotiated" in any major industry in the past two years. 
His statement said partial terms included the following: -A wage increase of $2.35 and hour over three years for miners now averaging $7.80 an hour. -Guaranteed health benefits for 
Gov't arnd econ to hold smoker 
There will be a smoker for all government and! economics majors and professors tonight from 9-12 
p.m. at the Senior Bar. For information caB Jim Kahl at 1185. 
Missionary to lecture on women in India 
·'The Role of Women in Northeast India" wi11 be a talk given by Fr. Joseph Kennedy at St. Mary's tomorrow evening at 7:30 in Carroll 
Hall. 
A Jesuit missionary in India 1-.::~ the past 26 years, Kennedy re­ceived his licentiate in sacred theology from St. Mary's College, West Bengal, India. He was formerly provincial of the Jamsh­edpur Jesuit province and has also been dean and director of the Jesuit graduate school of business mana­gement and personnel management. 
Kennedy is currently stationed at the Jesuit Mission Bureau in Balti­more. He is helping to reorganize the bureau in the seminary there. He will return to India in April to resume the rectc•rship of Loyola High School and a professorship at the Xavier Management Institute. 
"The Role of Women in Northeast India" is the second in this year's Humanistic Studies Lectures at St. Mary's . For 21 years the Series has been presented to demonstrate the vitality of Western tradition and to illustrate its significance for man in the past and preseut. 

need posters in a hurry? 
active and retired miners now ning other issues. and their families and restoration These include requiring miners h ·
and improvement of pension bene-in wildcat strikes to reimburse t etr fits. benefir funds for money lost, Th · h" f · d d t ·1 lth h th · b t 
e um~n c te ommttt~ ~ at s a. oldugh e retmfrurse~edn str
of concesstons the UMW ts wtdely wou ave to come om tn us y reported to have agreed to concer-if an arbitrator found a wildcat strike was caused by companyJ t• h • action. Negotiators also reportedly 
US ICe teaC -In agreed to discipline miners who arescheduled repeatedly absent from work. In addition, the union is believed to have dropped its early demand A campus-wide justice Teach-in for a local right to strike at will be held tomorrow and Thurs-individual mines. day, during regular classe~. Po~si-News of the tentative settlement ble topics for class constderatton was greeted with cautious opti­can be found in the editorials run in mism by one UMW district leader. yesterday's and today's Observe!'8. In conjunction with the Teach-m, Fr. David Burrell, chairman of the 
Billiards tourney 
theology department, will give a lecture entitled "Education for Justice" tomorrow at 8 p.m. On begins sign upsThursday, Bryan Hehir of the Office of International Justice and Peace will present a lecture on Students interested in partici­"The Individual and International pating in the annual billiards Policy", also at 8 p.m. Both tournament should sign up in the lectures will be given in the poolroom in LaFortune Student auditorium of the Galvin Life Center. The tournament beginsScience Center. · tomorrow. 
8:30am -4:30pm 
LaFortune Ballroom 

FIRST FIRST SERVED 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT ... 
a challenging new career for college graduates. 
w 
An intensive 12 week course offered by the 
UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO 
SD 
in cooperation with the National 
Center for Paralegal Training 
• Specialties offered in the following fields: 
Litigation Corporations & Real Estate Estates, Trusts & Wills Generalist {Evenings only) 
• ABA. Provisional Approvat 
• 
Clinical Internship 

• 
Employment Assistance For a free brochure please send the fallowing to: 


UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO Room 318, Serra Hall La~er's Assistant Program San Diego, CA 92110 IN2 (714) 291·6480 Ext. 4325 
Name__________________________________ 
Address•--------------------­
___________stat...e_____ Zip__ 
Summer 1978 • DayO Phone,______ .htne 12 · Aug. 25 
Fall 1978 · Day 0 Spring 1979-Day O
SePt. 25 • Dec. 15 Feb. 12 · May 4 
Fall 19"78. Evening 0 Sprin1 1979 · Evenin1 0 Sept. 19 · March lG . · Man:h 20 -Sept. 1 
"I think our miners are ready to go back to work, provided they get h h " "d v 1 · 
w at t ey want, sat a eno Scarton of UMW district 2 in We tern p nnsul ania "If they
d ~t I' e thv 'II. t" k "t t " 
on , m 'Sure ey s tc 1 ou . 
rumors concerning any deaths in the center are false. Sr. Marion Ruidl, director ofthe Health Center 
. d h h b d th sa.t . t e_re ave .eenh no eta ~or crtttca1 111nesses m t e cen er ue 
to last week's flu outbreak. 
tp~eAr·sniCJdllatballmt.e,:sl.adies and gentlemen. simply won't find in • r a n d ., ri11 g s .. "JJi>IOirtGjil
If you're illterestea 1:1 ~ 
..be many possibilitie~ 
·engagement rillgs, ph· : se to contact me at Dian10nd Company. We're located Lobby of the St. · Building in downtown South 
and our telephone
287 1427•
-Next weel, for those with a for the scientific, a look inside iJISide literally) your diamond. 

·,\' ~ ...i.:~·.r .• ·....~ -;,··-~, ..•: : :>·/ .. ~; 
• ~'"'I.~ ••••••-. -.· ...... .-... •"' ••-.-•••--••• 

seriously folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Who is in Charge? 
--.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.__.____.__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiii__..__iiiiiiiiiii"'lrf buchwald 
Elvis will still outsell President our congressman?"
Americans were shocked to read last week that a recent survey of Carter on a magazine cover. "Well, you should at least know teen-agers showed they were com­something about the Constitution,'
Only 15 percent of those ques­tioned knew the difference between 
pletely ignorant of how the Ameri­I said. 
"Laverne and Shirley."
can government operated as well as "We don't have time. We have to 
Less than a third of the senior
who was in charge. keep up with Cher's divorce from
citizens over 65 had any knowledge 
Some of the findings: Fewer than Greg Allman. You grown-ups think 
that Burt Reynolds was now dating
half could name one of their we're stupid just because we don't
Sally Field, who is only 31 years
senators or their representative in know the name of the Vice Presi­old.

the House. About a third did not dent of the United States. But can

Harvey Rothmere, a teen-ager
know a senator was elected. More anyone over 35 name the last six

who had taken the survey said the
than a third did not believe a women Mick Jagger has taken to a

ignorance of grown-ups when it
newspaper should be allowed to disco club?"

comes to rock music was appalling.
publish criticism of elected offi­"Less than two percent knew that "You owe it to your country tocials. A fourth didn't know that the one of the Sex Pistols had OD'ed on know something about how yourS~nate is part of Congress. A third a plane from L.A. to New York." government is run," I protested. 

dtd not know that the Constitution "What's a Sex Pistol?" I asked. Harvey was really hostile. "Sup­

outlines their civil rights. While this is very revealing as to 

''There you have it,'' Harvey said. pose we did know the name of our where teen-agers' heads are these "That's one of the reasons senator. What good would it do days, another survey taken at the grown-ups have no idea what's us?" same time came up with some even going on. You media people are "Well, you could write to him more frightening data. In inter­not doing your job. The Sex Pistols about how you feel on the issues of 
views with 150,000 people over 35 are a punk rock group from the day." years of age, the study disclosed a England." "And then what?" startling ignorance on the part of "What's a punk rock group?" I "He could write you back than­Americans in the middle and older asked. king you for your letter." 
age groups when it came to the "It's a group of people who play "I'd rather get an autographed
really important issues of the 

punk rock and do sickening things photo of Lee Majors.''
country. 

on stage that make you want to "Who's Lee Majors?" I wantedFor example, while 70 percent of 
wretch." to know.
those questioned knew Guy "Beautiful," I said, "But what "I don't believe it. He's FarrahLombardo had died, only 25 per­does punk rock have to do with our Fawcett's husband. No wondercent were aware that, although generation?" your generation can't make it onElvis Presley had passed away, he "What does the Senate have to do Social Security."

still lives in the hearts of his fans 

with ours?" Harvey retorted. "If
through a multimillion dollar sou­

you don't know Johnny Rotten,
venir business. Although for all why should we know the name of 1978, Los Angeles Times Syndicateintents and purposes he is gone, 


JUSTICE NOTES: 
faculty survey 

Issues of justice will be the focus indicated 'most respondents have racial-cultrual groups and discus­of the campus-wide teach-in to be overcome the traditional ideolo­sing policies to remedy those held during regular class hours on gical barriers to the concept of injustices. While the Notre Dame Februrary 8 and 9. The teach-in social responsibility and have em~ community seems to be able to sponsored by the University Com-braced its practice as a legitimate readily identify with injustices on a mittee for Education for Justice is and achievable goal for business."' global scale like the earthquake part of a general effort to make Professor Cullather also pointed victims in South America or victims concern for justice the distinctive out that the American Assembly of starvation in the Sahel, there is a trait of the Notre Dame community. asserted, "The corporation is now continuing apathy regarding cont­When asked about the relevance of perceived as a social unit also inuing problems of injustice in the issues of justice to their particular having, like other basic social United States. Consequently, ex­disciplines various faculty mem-entities, responsibilities that trans­cept for a very few concerned hers of the Colleges of Business cend economics." "For business members of the Notre Dame com­Administration and Arts and Let-education," Professor Cullather munity, the only Black Studies ters responded in various ways. concluded "The meaning is clear: courses which generated substan­_Basil O'Leary, assistant professor Indifference to the problems of tial enrollments were those ru­of theology, considers issues of justice in the world is not possible mored to be jock courses. Since 
• justice as central to theology. for the future business person." those courses have been eliminated "Because theology directs its att-Concerning the relevance of jus-the highly professionally oriented ention to what is ultimate in human tice to the social sciences, Profes­Notre Dame students now enter the ?xperience" maintains O'Leary "it sor Edward Goerner, Professor of real world with little understanding ts profoundly concerned with the ' Government and International of alternative perspectives on prob­quality of relations that exist Studies, had some words of caution lems which they will encounter in among men." "While seldom "Mainstream Western Political their careers which fly in the face of supplying solutions to specific Science (like the other social the stereotyped views which they questions of justice it promotes sciences) is built on a model of have been fed during their shel­~u<:h discussion by its continual ins_trumental rationality within tered upbringing. Hopefully, the mststance on the central question: whtch evaluative terms like "jus­teach-in will serve as an initial Why be just?" tice" can have no integral role. So stimulus to reverse this trend." 
James Sterba,· assistant professor there cannot be a valid teach-in on 
According to Prof. Albert LeMay,

of philosophy sees issues of justice justice within standard political 
assistant professor of Modern Lan­
as having a similarly important role science (or the other social 
guage: "Among some of the
for philosophy. Sterba thinks, sciences). Those concerned with 
greatest proponents of social jus­
"Philosophy can shock us into thinking and talking about justice 
tice are the well-known writers of
realizing the considerable sacri-might wish to ask whether there be 
the Third World, to which many
tices that justice demands of us." some defect in the model of 
Latin American nations belong.
For example, Sterba believes a rationality that produces a political 
Such famous Spanish-American
~tudy of philosophy can show that science that excludes rational jud­
authors as Miguel Angel Asturias, 
tn order to meet the demands of gments about the most political of 
Gabriel Garcia Marques, Carlos
justice with respect to distant subjects: justice. Unfortunately, a 
Fuentes, Mario Vargas Llosa, 
~oples and future generations one day teach-in about justice is 
Pablo Neruda, Octavio Paz are the
1110st of us would have to signifi-scarcely the format for radical 
most artistic and articulate spokes­
cantly lower our own standard of critical reflections on the epistemo­
men against poverty, hunger, cor­
~iving. logical basis of the mainstream 
ruption, exploitation, the lack of
Lee Tavis, professor of finance social sciences. Justice is in too 
human rights and personal dignity. 
and business economics, holds the much trouble in the western world 
The faculty of the Department of
view that justice should be the for that." 
Modern and Classical Languages
basic consideration in all business James Stewart, Director of Black 
teaches literature as a unique art
decisions. "Each manager must Studies, took a different attitude 
form valuable to the moral and
decide whether justice or power is about the relevance of issues of . 
intellectual development of the
going to be his or her guide in justice to black Studies and the 
individual. At the same time, we
balancing the conflicting demands usefulness of a teach-in. "Black 
view literature ,as a tremenously
and ~eeds. of the firms various Studies by its very nature is a key 
profound commentary on the many
constttuenctes--stockholders, con-component of the Justice Education 
and varied aspects of the human 
sumers, suppliers, labor and the movement. Black Studies courses, 
condition. Rarely can we divorce
general public.'' In this connection seminars, etc. attempt to promote a 
ourselves and classroom discus­
James Cullather, professor of acco-concern for human justice by 
sions from basic questions of
untancy, noted, "Last year a studying the types of injustice 
social, political, economic, and
Harvard Business Review survey experienced by blacks and other 
moral justice." 
*The Observer 
an i':ldependent student newspaper servmg notre ddme dnd st. mary'o, 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as posstble_ Edttonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Edttonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors_ Column space is available to all members of the communtty. and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of var'ying opmtons on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chiel Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor MaurePn Flynn Editorial Editor Barb BreitPmtem Exec News Editor jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb langhenry News Editor Paul Steven~on Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Tuesday, February 7, 1978 
,1 ...;:...__ 
JUSTICE NOTES: 

We are all aware that without 

science and technology modern 
civilization could not exist. Wheth­
er · we like it or not, we are 
dependent on basic research in 
these areas, and in their applica­
tions. The ongoing Scientific and 
Industrial Revolutions (which in­
crease our physical abilities) and 
now the Computer Revolution 
(which is extending our mental 
abilities) can provide either the 
means to increase justice in the 
world, or to make the world more 
unjust. 
Who is responsible for deciding whether science and engineering will be used for or against justice? The answer is: we aU are, you and me. Both the people who increase our knowledge and capability to translate the "humane impera­tive" into reality, and all of us who as citizens and decision-makers can mandate that it must or must not be done, are responsible. We aU must be educated for the just use of science and technology. In some­what of an extension of a thesis in Father Hesburgh's The Humane lmperatJve, I suggest that the more concerned and educated society is-specifically its current and future decision-makers (that means us, Notre Dame students and faculty)­the more we can be sure that science and technology will be used for justice, and not against it. 
Let the above thoughts serve as our context that links science and engineering with the rest of society and its other decision-makers. The rest of this commentary provides some general decisions frequently encountered by scientists and eng­ineers in their work. Many go beyond one discipline, so can serve as the basis for discussions about Education for Justice in many areas. After each general decision, several examples are given to permit readers to understand more fully the diversity of the decisions with which we are confronted. Obviously the list below is incom­plete. It is meant only to start you thinking. My apologies is biology examples are overrepresented! Please keep in mind that I attach no value judgements in this article to any example given below. That is for professors and students to consider in their classroom discus­sions of Education for Justice. 
A. Choice And Plan OfRe-.earch Topics On Real World Manage­ment Decisions 
-Accumulate as much informa­tion as possible to make the soundest choices. 
-Study genetics of any species versus those with agriculture or medical potential. 
-Investigate more fully the 
ted crovello 
safety of different bridge designs, of the location of earthquake pro­ducing faults, or of proposed dam sites. 

-Choose to apply engineering techniques such as systems analy­sis to such areas as mass transport­ation, weather prediction, legal systems, analysis of criminal be­havior, etc. 
-Choose to work on biochemical or physiological phenomena that are directly related to human welfare (e.g., cancer cures, "mor­al" alternatives to current methods of birth control). 
-Thorough assessment of the imp ace of proposed research on the researchers and the total environ­ment (environmental impact as­
sessments that do not stop at what is legally required). Topics range from DNA research to strip mining, air pollution, etc. 
B. Conduct of Research. 

-The proper and just use of human objects (and other species) in research. 
-Proper experimental design -and analysis to assure that results are valid . 
-Willingness to involve workers from less developed countries in ongoing research taht may enhance justice in their home countries. 
C. Results of Research, Includ­ing Resource Management. -The just use of IQ tests to determine mental retardation 
-the just management, of natural and other resources by applied scientists and engineers to satisfy the most needs of the most people, both short aad long term (e.g., management of a national forest for lumbering, boating, other recreation, watersheds, minerals, wildlife, etc.). 
-Use of basic scientific and engineering data to help politicians to determine the proper use of suburban land (e.g., should it stay as irreplaceable farm land, or should it be turned into parking fields for shopping malls?). 
-Just decisions about who should receive excess U.S. food (the highest bidding countries or the most needy?). 
To conclude, Education for Jus­tice in science and engineering is everybody's job. As responsible, thinking members of society we aU are obligated to learn about a particular issue of science or engi­neering so that we can make a sound decision whether or not to support it. As you know, education is a two-way street. The process involves teaching as well as learn­ing. In Education for Justice each of us is ethically bound to do both. What are you doing about it? 

'i 

Tuesday, February 7, 1978 the observer 
5 

Pictures at an Isis Exhibition 
Friday night marked the opening of an exhibition in the Isis Gallery by senior Art majors Sue Hart, Mike Madden and Sherry Simon. A clutch of dedicated aesthetes braved the menace of winter and the threat of influenza for the chance to enjoy some accomplished art while mingling with luminaries like Dr. Robert Leader and the trio of artists themselves. The plain white brick walls of the Gallery heightened the Bohemian illusion, broken only by a keg of Budweiser. 
Sherry Simon's black-and-white photo­graphs comprised the first exhibition chamber. Without exception they ptoved to be studies in high contrast with very little intermediate shades. It has been said that most of the art in black and white comes in the developing, an area where Simon shows remarkable ability. In her extensive anatomical study, one can see wrinkles and skin textures against perfect blacks, while at other times limbs and throats go practically unrecognized as their natural designs provide bleached form~ in anony­mous order, impeccable white on black. The choice of subjects, the body, concrete and brick forms, combine with the tech­nique to produce a kind of desolate beauty consistent in the photographs. 
If Simon's work show a sense of purpose, the watercolors and photographs by Sue Hart seemed to indicate more a sense of fun. Four black and white self-portraits, the kind you get for 75 cents in the booth-at the shopping mall, all mysteriously cloud­ed around the face and colored in with Elton John eyeglasses. A series in black and white ink indicating the purchase of a candy bar from a vending machine. Innocent, disarming, almost technological­ly-oriented, the combination of stark visuals and the imposition of color, all serve to produce a unique stylistic accom­plishment that defies classification but speaks of something more disconcerting than the simple charms of contemporary culture. 
Hart is equally in her element with 
watercolors. Again, the technique is often 
inexplicable but calls little attention to 
itself. Rather, we see shapes emerge from 
the nebulous stains -school desks in 
disarray, or factories along the Fox River. 
The highlight of the show was Mike 
Madden's color photographs, simple 
straight-aheads of the fronts of a number of 
houses in San Francisco. They capture, in 
the roundness of manicured bush or the 
precision of green doors in a white garage, 
the battlecry oif the homeowner, "I live 
c 
CD 
(I) 
c :I: ~ 

(I) 
.s 
0 
.c 
~ 

here. This is my house. I take care of it." 
Madden oils show varying degrees of accomplishment. The untitled portrait of a stout, middle-aged man at home in his favorite chair was by far his best execution, and the figure of the girl dressed in Polish Sherry Simon [right] displayed their works this past weekend at the Isis Gallery. 
Mike  Madden  [above],  with  
Kate  Noelke  and  Rob  Civi­ 
tello,  Sue  Hart  [left]  and  

garb was similarly refined. The trio of priests, however, looked as though they had suffered from a lack ofMadden'stime, three animated faces emerging from a mass of black cassocks. 
The exhibition closed Sunday to make 
Jackson Browne's Running On Empty 

" ... now I'm sittin' here wondering what to say, thinkin' all these words might scare you away, no one really talks about their feelings anyway, without dressing them in dreams and laughter, I guess it's just too painful otherwise ... " 
-Jackson Browne 

My editor gave me a break. All weekend I lie around sick, listening to all the Jackson Browne I could, trying to get a comprehensive sense of his music so I could better discuss his latest album, Running on Empty. I listened constantly-­Saturate Before IUslng, Late for the Sky, The Pretender--and nothing came. After four days of Jad:son Browne, I couldn't quite explain the feeling I got listening to the new album. I decided there was no way I could give my editor the half-page review he'd requested. And then came the break--"I only need 750 words," said the editor. Fine, I thought, I can talk for that long. But I stiU couldn't explain that feeling ... 
The music is typical Jackson-­the distinctly Californian style of country-and pop-rock that lttas catapulted bands like The Eagles into the commercial limelight. the sound revolves around a simple rhythmic feel, with flowing, lyrical melo­
*******************************************
i ~
Are you creative? 
dies and a great deal of vocal harmony. Browne, a pioneer of this sound, has always added personal touches--crisp pi­ano sharing time with guitar, a subtle fiddle, and his strong and often passionate, nasal voice. Running on Empty does nothing to show that Browne has discarded either the California style or the personal · touches. The melodies are again softly haunting and pretty, enhanced by the overlaid vocal arrangements that go back to"Rock MeOn The Water" from his first album. As usual, the energy level ranges from a thundering high--on the title cut and "You Love the Thunder"--to a bleary-eyed low--on "Cocaine." 
What makes this album a little different is the fact that it's a collection of original songs recorded live on Browne's 1977 Summer Tour. No oldies, no big hits to attract old fans. And the sound is quite good--not like Frank Zappa live, but then again nothing like sugarpie Petey Framp­ton and his blaring tracks of thirteen-year­olds screaming for a lock of his chestha.ir. Producer Browne and engineer Greg Ladanyi have done a creditable job recording songs in hotel rooms, on the tour bus, and even onstage. 
Browne has surrounded himself with excellent musicians. His old friend David Lindley plays fiddle and lap steel _gt!itar. 
* 
i Though the song is true to Browne's 

* 
Well if so and even if no, the Observer *romantically existential view of life. it lacks * • * the livelier imagery of earlier work. Still, 

* 
needs you. Come up ton1ght to the open *the song is sincere and sensitive--one of 

* 
.d • h y ,II *the best on the album. 


*-hOUSe fr•om 9 tO m1 n1g t • 0U get 8 feel* "You Love The Thunder" is interesting. 
* f the the p p p t *Browne talks about the inevitable pain of 
:: or way ~ er 0 era es. *love-relationships and our insistence on 
* ! clinging to them for the sake of our "crazy! P.S. Stop by the features desk. *longing" for love ... 
******************************************~ "Draw the shade and light the fire 
Doug Haywood and Rosemary Butler sing the backing vocals so crucial to Browne's sound--clear and consistent, they comple­ment Browne's voice. And then there is The Section, borrowed from James Taylor-­drummer Russ Kunkel, bassis Leland Sklar, guitarist Danny Kortchmar, and keyboardist Craig Doergbe. These talent­ed jazz-rock artists do an expert job executing the musical end of the album, be it relatively simple for their talents. 
The musical end, however, ·is not so important with Browne--lyrics have always been his forte. Unfortunately, the new album offers only two songs written solely by Browne. The co-written compositions lack the depth and imagery normally found in Browne's poetry, often falling back on exhausted metaphor and mundane rhe­toric. Still , these are roadies and old friends joining Browne for some fun--typi­cal road activity. Browne's songs are what deserve scrutiny--the title cut and "You Love The Thunder." 
"Running On Empty" is in a familiar vein. As with the earlier "The Road and the Sky" and "Your Bright Baby Blue," Browne takes the role of the confused young man unable to reconcile the terms of survival with his need for love ... 
"Gotta do what you can just to keep 
your love alive, Trying not to confuse it 
with what you do to survive." 
by dave o'keefe 
room for a student showing opening today. The Isis Gallery is one of those places that you pass every day and never know what's going on. There was a lot there last Friday, and more to come. You may even stumble in on a party. 
by bryan gruley 
For the night that holds you and calls your 
name, And just like your lover, knows your desire And the crazy longing that time will never tame." The lyric here is more reminiscent of Browne's better work. Poignant and blatantly personal, it utilizes the direct address to elicit dramatic effect, this further accentuated by the simple, driving melody. 
Overall, Running On Empty is nothing special for Jackson Browne. Though the songs are enjoyable enough--"Rosie" and "Love Needs A Heart" are also good--they are mainly because of the strength of Browne's sensitive, strong vocals and the familiar, pleasant melodies. Considering that it is a live album, and considering that Browne collaborates rather informally with a number of people, Running On Empty is a very listenable, well put-together album. It pales in comparison to older Jackson Brown material. But then again, I still have this feeling for it... 
... a feeling I think I've almost worked out in the preceding paragraphs. Almost. What I haven't worked out is what I now assume to be my personal attraction for Browne's work, particularly the lyrics. I can't finally downgrade Running On Empty because I hear things on it that I feel are right despite my objective con­siderations, things I can almost pick as out of a fruitbask:et and squeeze between my fingers, roll around on my tongue. I can touch them, taste them, but I can't tell them. Like in the quoted lines at the beginning of the article. Like nothing I can say ... 
" ...when your own emptiness is all that's gettin' through there comes a point when you're not sure why you're still talking I passed that point long ago.'' 
~----------------------~--~------------------------------------------------­
the observer T~sday, February 7, 1978 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SPECIAL 
Come to a 
"Knowledge-is a reflection of reading"
FREE
Are you bogged down already? 
SPEED READING LESSON Increase Your Reading Speed 50-100°/o 

COMPARE AND DECIDE 
Dynarr ·~ Reading Systems Inc.  Evelyn Wood Reading l?ynamics  
D.R.S..... :trantees in writing to at  Partial refund of your tuition if you fail.  
least trk ·  vour Dynamic Reading Speed  
or you  i .::ceive a FULL refund.  
Aovancbu Course  No advanced course known at this time.  
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to  Their graduates are required to pay a  
retake the course to extend their skills at  registration fee to retake the course.  
no additional charge.  
Tuition Assistance Payment Plan. NO  Contractual obligation with finance charge.  
Finance Charge!!  
$175.00  $295.00  

I 
f 
f 
l 
ATTEND A FREE LESSON: 
Tuesday, 7 February 12 -2 -4 -6PM 
All meetings held at:
r 
The Center for Continuing t;ducation 
room 14 downstairs 
DYne-mic Reading Systems Inc. 
A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' lnstruc:tors, utilizing totdy ,_, corapll. 


. ..:..... 

. ...:-.··. . 
~ f.' ', ' • . . 
·;, ,.. . •', 


;·. ... ,.·.' _._,. -..) -· -·· .,. 
~,tti(,.,... ,'"J,.,'o~'t..,·t·o"l"'•..-•1 l'ol ntll lot"••••·••• lol,j"• t•llollltotUol .I I 1•1 I,,J.JJot,f~ J~r·~ ..~~--'-""-'J.,J,.•,y,•,l,.,.•~' 

... "4. -.:·, t ••· •• ·-~ ... ~ ........: •• f ~,IJ, ..
' ' .. '·' ~ . • r.. •4 
StudEtnt board advises Saga 
by Jim JJlaba mental stage, will be extremely helpful." He said he hopes students will bring forth innovative 
A new Food Advisory Board ideas to improve food services. (FAB) is being formed by Student 
Robinson stated that he is willing Government in cooperation with 
to discuss the students' sugges­Saga Food Services. ~-Harold Jara, 
tions and complaints. Jara said co-exchange commis~ner, has that Robinson seemed anxious and been chosen to chair the'board. 
concerned about the FAB, and said According to J au,, the board will 
that Robinson was glad that the allow students to offer•suggestions 
student body is active and willing to SAGA and to voict; any com­
to help improve SAGA. Jara plaints they have regarding food continued that he hopes good services. The new FA13 will help communication will be established 
SAGA give students what they and maintained between SAGA want, he stated. "SA(;A doesn't and students through the FAB. know what we want,'' h~ explained The board will consist of Jara and "and we don't know ·what they one representative from each hall. can do for us." 
It will m~et once a week with Robert J. Robinson, senior Food Robinson, a management staff 
Service Director, said, ''SAGA will member from both dining halls, a take about one year to into the student representative from each full swing of tltings. 
quad, a dietician, and a non­student dining-hall worker. 
~~ ~;.q 


~~ 
e all $6.98 list LP' s ONLY $4.49 all $7.98 list LP's ONLY $4.99 
( plus sales tax) 
ENDS SUNIDAY, 19 FEB,. 
f.."Willted:
....~ 
: • a few good leaders. : • 
e Being a Marine officer requires many things. Total respon-• e sibility. Ability to give 100% to every challenge-every-• time. Above all, leadership; the single most critical skill 
• 
•
sought aftEn by an employer-military or G:ivilian. If you have the potential, desire, toughness and 
• d •
etermination. we can make you a leader. iiP• Not just while you're a Marine officer. but . • • for the rest of your life. Contact us now for • • facts about Marine officer programs. _ • • In LaFortune and the Ubrary • • 9 a.m. 4 p.m. until Friday. • 
• The fe'W. The Proud.The Marines. • 
TO: STU[»ENTS AND STAFF OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S 
FROM: IP~DIANA CAMPUS MINISTRY VOCJ!~ TIONA L TEAM (4 sisters, 1 brother, 4 priests) 
lil~f~i~!l8~f~ED!~g~~i~~E11 
mt LIFE OF PRIEST, SISTER AND tm tm BROTHER IN THE CHURCH TODAY~tl 
~f~tiii!tt!!tt!i!i!1!ttm~m~r~=~=~~t~~l~~~r%~f=~=~?!~l=~t=~£!=~~!l~£ftJ¥t~!~!~m~%~i: 
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 8, 1978 

7:30 p.m.... Regina Lounge following the 7 p.m. Ash Wednesday (SMC) open discussion 
9:30 p.m.... Bulla Shed and Campus Ministry West (Badin) open discussion 
THURSDAY, FES. 9, 1978 

2-4 p.m.... Individual meetings: Stapleton Lounge and LaFortune 
7:30 p.m.... Stapleton Lounge--open discussion 
9:30 p.m.... Bulla Shed and Campus Ministry West (Badin) open discussion 
FRIDAY, FEB. 10, 1978 

10-noon .•... lndividual meetings: Stapleton Lounge and LaFortune 
The FAB will replace the present Food Advisory Council (FAC), which consists of five students who deal mainly with complaints about food services. Jara stated that these members will be invited to join the more expansive FAB. 
Chris Erickson, chairman of the FAC, stated, "Our meetings were more complaint oriented, and we didn't get much response from either the students or the ND Food Service. SAGA is not as limited as the ND Food Service was. They will be able to better implement the suggestions that students offer." 
Hall presidents are in the~ process of picking representatives from their respective halls. Any inter­ested student should get in contact with their presidents immediately, Jara stated. 
Daily L~9nten jTJas 
held in~ LaFortune 
There will be a daily Mass offered at 12:15 p.m. on the weekdays of Lent in the Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. Masses will begin this W ednesdav with the distribu­tion of ashes. · 
Free Univerlsity registration rescheduled 
Registration for Free University 
This young woman joined hundreds of other gamblers having some fun
courses has been rescheduled for 
at the Mardi Gras for only one dollar. Additonal fun is planned for next
Thursday from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 
weekend. [Photo by Ron Szot.]
p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
classified ads 
NOTICES 

Anyone wishing to regist11r to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before spring b1·eak. 
Accurate, Fast Typing MRS. DONOHO 232-0746 Hours 8AM to 6PM 

Typing. Reasonable rate. Call 8051. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters 287­4971. 
Typing done. Reasonable rates. Call 8086 between 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service IBM C~r~ecting Selectrics. $.85 per page, mmtmum. Call 232-0898 "When yol( want the Best'' Resumes: $3.00 per pagei 
-----------·-----. 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT seminars begin Tues., Feb. 7th. For information C'r41 Mary 1618 or Emily 6881. 
Management work-study program tils summer a.t Quantico, Virginia. Free transportation, room and board books and uniforms plus over :~700 for r.·x weeks. See the Marine Officer Selecti team in LaFortune or the Library Fe . 7-10, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. ----·------------'""'!"· 
FOR RENT 

For rent next school year -two nic!l houses completely furnished just acouple of blocks fmm campus, good neighbor­hoods, one lour bedroom & one six bedroom with fireplace. Call 277-3604. 
LOST &FOUNCI 

Lost: One blue ski glove (left hand), between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thrusday, Feb. 2, approx. 4:45 p.m. If found please contact George at 1248. 
Lost set of keys by ACC ice rink. Honda key. Please call 277-0222, 234-8279 or turn in to rink Pro Shop for Thelma. 
Found: A black wallet behind Lyons Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed are an Indiana Driver's license, work I D and library card. Call to idenitfy at 1715. 
Lost: Round 14k gold medal. Size of a quarter has face of sun with a crack on medal. Also a gold Italian horn. Lost Thurs. Jan. 26 morning between Fisher & Dining Hall. Substantial Reward! Call Mike 3010. 
Found: Silver wire-framed glasses out­side ACC before Maryland game. Call 
1475. 

Lost: Maroon ski jacket at Livrary Bar Sat. nite. Special X-mas present. Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
Lost: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
WANTED I am in dire need of 2 Marquette B-basll tix. Will pay your price. Call1712. 
Need ride to Columbux, Ohio Feb. 10. Call Molly 1312. 
Need 2 Marquette tlx. Call Ken 1m. 
Need ride to Western Pa. Feb. 10 or later. Will share$. Call Joe 8688. 
Need 4 GA DePaul tix. Any price! Call Bonnie 6239. 
Need a babysitter? Available late after­noons and any evening. Call Jill 283-1705 
Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your price. Call Russ at 8772. 
2Marquettetix. Will pay reasonable sum of$. Call1612. 
Need 2 Marquette Ga tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
House parent room & board & 85 per week. tax free. Close to campus, flexible hours. 232-4805. 
Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
I need 2Ga or student tickets to DePaul! Call Louis at 1207. 
Weekend householder for local halfway house facility. Overnight stay required. Small salary, room & board, and excel­lent experience. Call 234-1049 for further informatiBn. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area after Wednesday. Call Val 7088. 
4 DePaul tickets. Call1153. 
One Marquette student ticket. Call Mike at 1424: 
4 Marquette tickets. Call Jim at 1419. 
Need 5 GA DePaul tix. $$. Tony 1610 or 1608. 
Need ride to East Lansing, Michigan weekend of Feb. 10. Call Katie 6798. 
I need 2 GA Marquette tickets real bad. George. 1248. 
· 

Need 2 GA Marquette tickets or parents wil disown me. Will pay big bucks and even throw in a elate with my mother. Kevin 8453. 
Need ride to Dayton Oh. weekend of Feb. 1D-12. Call Dave 8308 or Tom 8624. 
Need 1 or 2 female apt. mates. NO apts. Call 284-4953 or 288-8767. 
Need 4 tix to Marquette game. Will pay top$. Call 277-5137. 
Desperately need 2 GA. tickets for Marquette game. Call Rom 3313. 
Babysitter for 3-year old boy Tuesdays and Thursdays 12-5 p.m. (if possible 10 a.m.-5 p.m.) near campus. 232-9541. 
Desperate three girls need ride to Detroit-Ann Arbor area, Feb. 10 week­end. Call Maryellen 4-1-5332. 
FOR SALE 

BIC 981 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now available. Call 8982. 
Women's size 8 Dackstein hiking coots­brand new -reduced price! Call 679­
4496. 

19.6 Coachman Travel Trailer; like-new condition; sleeps 6; self-contained. $3300.00. Call after 6 p.m. 272-8308. 
PERSONALS 

Happy birthday Martha & Sheila. 3B 
Martha my dear, ats you begin your 22nd year living at "Senior Beer" and dlnln~ on PB&J and singing it "your way' recalling the days of Egyptian Art, standing in the corner holding a heart to heart, know that we hope your every wish will be granted to Little Miss Blowfish! Happy birthday "Sweet BabyDear!" 
Desperately need Marquette tickets. Call Dannie SMC 5330. · 
Need 4GA DePaul tix. Cal! Margie SMC 
5336. 

Need 4 GA Marquette tix. Call Mary SMC 5781. 
Haircuts cheap. Styles, trims. SMC 4530. Betsy. 
Need 4 GA tix for Marquette SMC 4530 Betsy 
A young LeMans Miss is waiting to be kissed with initials M.C. "Kogie' who t t be? 
the observer Tuesday, February 7, 1978 
Fencers extend streak to 72 
by Paul MaHaney Purdue and Cleveland State by 
Sports Writer scores of 20-7, knocked off parkside 
24-3, and stomped on Bowling 
Green and Tri-State 25-2 and 26-1, Coach Mike DeCicco's Notre respectively.
Dame fencers ext..:nded their phe­
nomenal winning streak to 72 The Irish sabre squad surprised Saturday with victories over Wis­most everybody but themselves consin-Parkside, Purdie, Bowling Saturday, as they won all but four Green, Tri-State College and of their 45 bouts. Junior NCAA Cleveland State. gold medalist Mike Sullivan was 
The Irish swordsmen had little his usual self, winning all of his 10 trouble disposing any of their bouts. But the All-American from opponents as the defending nation­Peabody, Mass., received some al champions never won by less unexpected support. Fencing in than 13 bouts. They defeated his first varsity actio~ sophomore 
Ted Robinson===========================================::===================================================================: 
The Icemen Cometh 
One Man's View 
It would have been easy for the Notre Dame hockey team to quit. After all, here they were, eight games into the season, and eight losses to show for their efforts. Four of those losses coming at home, where, in tht.WCHA.you are supposed to win. 
Two months and fourteen games later, the Notre Dame hockey team is making its move on the first division of the league. Even the most optimistic person associated with the team wouldn't have thought things could have turned around this well. 
Notre Dame is 9-4-1 in its last 14 league contests. The sweep of Michigan in Ann Arbor last weekend moved the Irish to within one point of the fifth-place Wolverines and the Irish have two games in hand. With two consecutive series at home approaching, the Irish could find themselves embarking on their final road trip of the season solidly entrenched in fifth place with sights set on fourth place and home-ice advantage in the first round of the playoffs. 
How does a team go from 0-8 to 9-12-1 in such a short span? Well, some of it is luck. The pucks that bounced at crazy angles now carom in the right direction. The posts on the opposing nets seems to shrink while those on your nets double in width. 
But, the story of this Notre Dame hockey team goes deeper than luck. This team has more hustle and desire than any athletic team I've seen in four years at Notre Dame. If you paid any attention to the pre-season coaches poll, then you would believe that the Irish lacked somewhat in talent. The pick was eighth. But, whatever this team lacks in talent, they compensate for in hustle and desire. 
Look at some of the problems they've had to encounter. Leading scorer Don Fairholm misses two games in November and then tears a knee ligament in a non-conference game against Bowling Green. End of season. Ted Weltzin, left wing on Fairholm's line, separates a shoulder a shoulder in practice in early January. End of season. 
That's two-thirds of the team's first line and one-half of the team's centers (Weltzin is a converted center). When Kevin Nugent sat out the final two periods of Saturday's win over Michigan with a strained knee, that meant the entire first line of one month ago was out. 
It seemed that Notre Dame, a team accused of not having much depth, was out for the count. But, along came Brian Burke and Kevin Nagurski, two players who sat out the first half of the season, to play inspired hockey and the Irish leave Ann Arbor with four points. 
The point of this is that if any team at Notre Dame deserves backing, it is this hockey team. They've come a long way since the dark days of November, and in the home stretch of the season, the Irish are in the thick of the playoff picture. Once the playoffs begin, anything can happen, as last years memories suggest. 
So, when the Irish host the Michigan Tech Huskies and Minnesota-Duluth Bulldogs at the ACC the next two weekends, the students will have a chance to support a team that has been a winner the past few weeks, and has a chance to be a big winner in the next six weeks. Anyone who shows up for the games will undoubtedly see that this team deserves all the support it can receive. 
One final word must be said about Derek Sanderson's (yes, you remember the WHA's bonus baby) quote in yesterday's newspapers. It seems that Derek had an alcohol and barbituate habit that eventually ended his career. "Turk" admitted to needing an entire bottle of Nyquil or valium to get to sleep at nights. 
That's sad. Derek Sanderson had an immense amount of talent as a hockey player. Unfortunately, Derek thought he was a superstar. He turned out to be qne of history's greatest con men. He took the fledgling WHA for alarge chunk of their initial operating capital, and then played like a man in a coma. 
Derek Sanderson is just another victim of modern high-priced sports. There willbe more like him unless businessmen who decide to become owners realize that no athlete is worth a Derek Sanderson salary, not even in New York (I couldn't finish an entire column without mentioning New York.) 
Chris Lyons went 9-0 for the sabre squad. 
"Lyons was a great surprise," noted assistant coach Ed DeVivo, former NYU fencing cocaptain. "He won all of his bouts, and really wanted them badly." 
Actually, the Irish received 25 

victories in 27 bouts from sabre 
novices. Also winning for the first 
time on the varsity level in sabre 
were sophomore Greg Armi (2-0), 
sop~omore Kevin Crowley (l-0), 
senior Pat Cfleason (9-1), freshman 
Tom Valdiserti (3-0) an4 )unior 
Paul Valentino (1-1). ' 
Gold medalist Pat Gerard, cap­tain in foil, won six of seven bouts while leading the foilists to a 40-5 slate. Senior Mike McCahey, Irish NCAA foil entry in 1975 and 1976, was 8-0 on Saturday. Both Gerard and McCahey defeated Carlo Son­gini, Cleveland State's highly-touted foilist. 
In addition to junior Steve Sali­mondo's 7-1 output and sophomore • Andy Bonk's 5-0 day, the Irish foilsmen also were aided by the fencing of four first-timers. Win­ning their ftrst varsity bouts Satur­day were freshman Ray Benson (4-0), sophomores Bill Fessler (3-0), Dave Vermeersch (2-1) and Joe Wheaton (2-0). 
Notre Dame's epee squad, fen­cing without the ill Bjorne Vaggo, recent transfer. from Sweden, cap­tured 34 of its 45 bouts throughout the weekend competition. 
Epee captain Bill Kica led the weapon by posting an 8~2 ledger. Sophomore Tom Cullum and senior John Strass aided the Irish cause with respective marks of 6-3 and 5-2. 
Notre Dame's women fencers were equally successful, capturing all of four matches Saturday. The Irish foilswomen defeated Purdue, 6-3, Parkside, 7-2, Bowling Green 6-3, and Tri-State, 8-1. 
Junior Karen Lacity led the Irish women with eight wins in nine bouts. Veterans Kathy Valdiserri and Cathy Buzard were each 7-1. 
Sophomore Liz Bathon began her 
Irish varsity competition by win­
ning three of four bouts. 
After the opening day of action was cancelled due to the recent blizzard, DeCicco's fencers have picked up some needed momen­tum. The Irish entertain the University of Detroit, the Universit University of Chicago, Milwaukee Area Technical College and North­western this Saturday at the Athle­tic and Convocation Center in the second and final home slate of the season. 
Sullivan, who will do battle with Detroit's Michael Boikins, one of the top sabre men around, is happy with the way Saturday's opening action set the pace for the season. 
"I was really impressed with the way things turned out," said Sullivan, owner of best winning percentage in Irish fencing history. "Being conscious of our streak,. we're doing really well. We're mostly worried about Wayne State (makeup of last week's cancellation due later in the season.) They'll be our big test. 
by Debbie Dahrling Women's Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's Carol Lally spark­ed a 12 point spurt in the opening minutes of the second half that iced a close victory over St. Mary's last night in the ACC. St. Mary's could only come within 10 points of the Irish for the remainder of the game, which ended with Notre Dame on top, 61-51. 
Fast breaks and good man to man defense by Notre Dame shut down the St. Mary's offense in the second half. The Irish opened up their biggest lead of 15 points with 
9:15 left in the game as Molly Cashman found Marge Meagher wide open under the basket for an easy layup making the score 54-39. From that point on, the Irish breezed to victory. 
Both teams exhibited fine shoot­ing in the opening minutes of the game as the Belles of St. Mary's matched the Irish basket for bas­ket. With seven minutes gone in the game, St. Mary's center, Kathleen Cullen, drove past the Irish defender for an easy layup to give the Belles a 10-8 lead. A steal and a score by Notre Dame freshman guard, Maggie Lally, knotted the score at 10-10. 
For the next eight minutes, the score was tied five times as 
Naber named 1977 amateur athlete 
LOS ANGELES [AP] -Olympic 
.,swimming champion John Naber, an ambassador of goodwill for non-professional athletics, was named Monday as winner of the James E. Sullivan Award as the nation's outstanding amateur ath­lete. 
He won with 2,500 points, com­pared with 1,343 for runner-up Edwin Moses, a hurdler from Morehouse College and 626 for diver Cynthia Mclngvale of Dallas. 
Naber, 22, won four Olympic gold medals and one silver at Montreal in 1976, but won his 1977 award off his victories for the where he returned for his senior year despite big money offers to turn professional. 
"It was a great shock for me to· win because my amateur career was overin late April," the gregari­ous 6-foot-6-inch swimming star said. 
He had been runner-up to de­cathlon champion Bruce Jenner a year ago. 
Naber, a backstroke recordhold­er, has been the high-point man in the National Collegiate Athletic Association championships the past four years and won a record 10 NCAA individual titles. 
of the Sullivan Award, which the AAU lists as honoring the nation's outstanding amateur athlete. 
Naber said there was no doubt he would return for his senior year at Southern Cal, explaining. "I made the deCision halfway through my freshman year that I would finish here, and I do not regret coming back _for my final semester." 
"This is the most meaningful 

award I've ever been voted," he said. "My most thanks go to Mr. and Mrs. Naber." 
At the 1977 NCAA champion­ships Naber won both the 100 and 200-yard backstroke events in Am­

Notre Dame's Mo1ly Cashman drives past St. Mary's defender 
Martha Kelly in the second half of the Irish's 61-51 victory. 
Cashman finished with 10 points on the night. [Photo by john 
Calcutt.] 

ND women cagers down SMC, 61-57 
tured both events in the AAU short course nationals in April. 
Then he lowered his American records for the 100 and 200-meter backstroke events when his collegi­ate team toured Japan. 
Naber, who said he wants to continue promoting the amateur ideal, said the United States should do well against nations tha: prose­lyte their athletes. 
''The thrill is in the competition. You do something you have never done before. Swimming is a sport for sports' sake, with no dollar bill attached. I don't know a single swimmer who has done anything 
turnovers plagued both teams. Then reserve center, Jane Politiski, began to control the boards for Notre Dame pulling down three key rebounds which led to Irish scores. St. Mary's was outscored 12-2 making the score 32-22 before Maureen O'Brien drove under the basket scoring two points for the Belles. Four more points by St. Mary's made it 32-28 at halftime. 
The high point scorer for N.>tre Dame and the ball game was j'J.::vr guard, Carol Lally, with 2; r..r:nts. The other Irish guard, 111'.:' · Ca>.h­man also finished in double figures with 10 points. Meg Holland and Maureen O'Brien tallied 12 points apiece to lead the St. Mary's offense. Martha Kelly pulled down a game high 14 rebounds and added 9 points for the St. Mary's effort. 
After the game, St. Mary's coach, Carolyn Willig, commented, "Our major problem was that our shooting percentage really fell off in the second half. Notre Dame's press forced us into turnovers and we rushed our shots." 
Sharon Petro, Notre Dame's coach, expressed satisfaction with her team's performance. "This was one of our better games this year. We really hustled on defense and our press well enough to make up for their height advantage." Commenting on the Irish offensive performance, Petro continued, "We took good shots for a change and they were going in." 
The next home game for Notre Dame, now 6-1, is this Saturday, Feb. II, at 3:30 p.m. in the Auxiliary Gym when the Irish will host the Huskies of Northern Illinois. St. Mary's will entertain St. Francis tomorrow night at 8 
p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility where they hope to raise their record to 6-4. 
Women sports writers needed 

Anyone interested in writing either Notre Dame or St. Mary's women sports, please contact Deb­
..-~ ...... l)~rsity. of , S~u~· ~ifo~~ .. ·.,· Naber becam .. the 48th recipient.·, .erican record time.' He also ·cap-. for which he is paid.'• ~ .,., ,•:.'~'~'•'-" bie Dahrling at 4-1.4898. 





