..----------------------~~---.~----------·------------------------------~----------~~~----~-------------------------~-----­

Saint Mary's elects 
by EDen Buddy 
Elections for class, hall and Student Assembly representatives were held yesterday at Saint Mary's. The uncontested ticket of Donna Noonan, president; Mary­nell O'Connell, vice-president; Laura Brems, secretary; and Linda Schultz, treasurer; will be next year's Senior Class officers. 
Th Junior Class will have a run-off election tomorrow between two tickets; the first consisting of Marie Bradley, Elaine Belle, Mary­Lynn Spittler and Beth DeRose. The second ticket will be Debbie Roberts, Mary Ellen Corcoran, Steph Hof and Mary Beth Farhart. 
Adri Trigiani, Mary Ellen Mac­do, Catherine Shaughnessy and Donna Bellock will be next year's Sophomore Class officers. 
In the hall elections Mary Beth Dormbach and Trish Premozic will remaps not DisneyWorld, but the amusement rides being constructed in Stepan parking lot 
be next year's president and vice­should provide tons o' fun. [photo by Dave IRumbach] president for Holy Cross Hall. Student As~embly representatives 

server 
,..­
/~­


an independent student newsu>aper sen1ing notre dame and st. mary's
t/' 

.Wednesday, April Jt, 1978
Vol. XII, No. 1~ 

Meets 'requireme-nts' 
Lugar chosen for Senior Fellow 
by Ed Callahan 
Staff Reporter 

Indiana Senator Richard G. Lu­gar was announced Monday as the Senior Class FeJlow for 1978. 
Lugar was the first candidate among the nominees to meet all of the requirements of the committee, one of which states that the individual must be able to spend at least one day on campus as a guest of the senior class. Potential candidates were elected by the Senior Class last November. 
Lugar will lly in from Washing­ton D.C. this Sunday to address the seniors from the balcony at Senior· Bar. Arrangements are being made to greet him with a small reception consisting of class offi­cers and a few members Jf the University administration. From there he will go to Senior Bar to spend the afternoon with the seniors. 
Senior Bar has made special arrangements to be open on Sun­day. and ail seniors are invited to the ceremonies. "Lugar has taken a great personal interest in this class," said Senior Fellow Commit­tee Chairman Liz Naquin. 
"The address will be in a casual, relaxed atmosphere. He is here in a spirit of camaraderie to the seniors," she added. 
The band, glee dub and Irish Brigade are being contacted for their services, and Naquin said she is. planning on making it an overall festive occasion. Hot dogs will be sold during the day. and the activities will be held outside if weather permits. 
"This should be convenient for seniors who want to attend the Bookstore Basketball finals and not miss dinner or Lugar," Naquin commented. 
Lugar was selected on the criter­ia that the award winner must be accomplished in his or her field, the individual's lifestyle and accomp­lishments should embody the spirit of the Class of 1978, his perscaal qualities such as integrity, leader­ship and personality must be considered, and he must be able to spend one day on campus with the seniors. 
Lugar, born April 4, 1932, has been active in the Senate since 1976 when he defeated Vance Hartke, a three-term incumbent. Prior to this victory in the Senate, Lugar was mayor of Indianapolis for twoo four-year terms. Under his guidanc·e, Indianapolis was honored by the National Council on Municipal Performance for their extensive work with crime, pollu­tion and unemployment. 
Lugar graduated first in his class and was co-president of the student body from Denison University in 1954. He was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship, the first Denison stu­dent to do so. and he completed his education at Pemborke College, Oxford University where he gradu­ated with honors with a Master of Arts degree. 
In the Senate, Lugar serves on the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry; the Com­mittee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; and the Select Committee on Intelligence. 
"The committee for Student Fellow put in a lot of work, and 
SU Steering Committee selected 
Mark Rust Staff Reporter 

After a delay of ov•er three weeks, the Student Union comple­ted selection of their five man Steering Committee last night. Led by Student Union Director Bill Roche, the eleven commission chairmen chose three from among their ranks. 
Chosen by the commission chair­men were Cultural Arts Commis­sioner Jerry Perez, Service Com­missioner Gary Luckini, and Social Commissioner John Bonacci. They will join Maureen Carney, Student Union comptroller, and Roche, both of whom automatically take seats on the committee in accor­dance with the new Student Gov­ernment constitution. 
The election of the Committee came 23 days later than the date specified by the constitution "be­cause of a classic misunderstand­ing, I hadn't re-read the constitu­tion," according to Roche. 
The constitution, newly imple­mented last fall, sets the date for the formation of the Steering Committee at April 1.. 
"We really weren't even aware that it was in the constitution," Roche continued. "On April 4th I reported to the Board of Commis­sioners that we would be getting the Steering Committee together later in the month. Andy (Mc­Kenna, student body president), was there at the time and he didn't even catch it." 
"Andy didn't know, no one knew we were supposec to do it April 1st," Roche said. "Someone mentioned it this weekend, so I called everyone up in a matter of hours and set the election up." 
For the remainder-6f the semes­ter the Steering Committee will be reviewing Student Union policies and forming a tenative budget. 
"It will be mostly internal stuff," Roche commented. "I don't plan on making any new initiatives right away." 
The Steering Committee shapes Student Union policy and plans budget. The budget, which will be the first major undertaUdng of next semester, will be an overaii finan­cial plan for the eleven commi­sions, each of which has its own budget. 
All three commission heads elec­ted to the committee will be seniors next fall. Luc1-Jini, a Pittsburgh native, and Bonacci, a resident of Rochester, MI, are both Business Administration majors. Perez, from Canton, OH is a majol' in Liberal 
Arts. 
from Holy Cross will be Mary Jane Beckman, Mary Ann Dampsy, Mary Beth Higgins and Sue McKinney. 
LeMans will have LeAnn Walsh as president and Kathy Murphy vice-president. Louise Enyedy will be the Student Assembly repre­sentative. 
A second run-off election will be held tomorrow between two tickets from McCandless hall. Mary Beth Bonte and Peggy Blum will run against Kathy Hughes and Flo Nash for hall president and vice­president. Merydith Gombers and LauraMadland will be next year's Student Assembly representatives for McCandless. 
Regina Hall elected an uncon­tested ticket of Karen Nagel and Ann Monaghan for hall president and vice-president. 
Noreen Bracken and Carrie Trousdale, the election commis­sioners "strongly urge all present sophomores and future McCand­less residents to vote in the run-off elections." 
after such a long wait to make this anno.mcement we are very glad to have Senator Lugar here Sunday," Naquin said. 
''The committee has retained their enthusiasm about the award as an honor and a class activity and Lugar shares this enthusiasm with us as well as the senior class," she added. 
Specific details concerning the activities for Sunday will be sent to the seniors sometime this week. 

An Tostal has begun and the Trivia Bowl is ra1in1 on. For more information on this and other An Tostal activities, tum to paJe 
5. [photo by Dave Rumnch] 2_ the 0bS8[V8[ Tuesday, Aprii25.J 1978. 


News Briefs_____ 
1======::::::::===::::::::======::==::::::::=::::::::::::::: Nationa) LIFE to be revived 
NEW YORK-Ufe magazine will return as a monthly photo maga­zine this fall, almost six years after financial problems forced it to fold as a weekly, Time, Inc. announced yesterday. "The magazine field is generally vigorous, all of our Time, Inc. publications are flourishing and it seems an appropriate moment to bring back one of the great forces in American journalism," said Hedley Donovan, editor-in-chief of Time, Inc. Donovan said the new Ufe would depend mostly on newstand sales at $1.50 per copy, but· subscriptions would be available at $18 a year. The first issue was scheduled for October. 
Kangaroos invade WI. 
WAUKESHA, Wis. -Residents of the suburban area west or'
1
Milwaukee, accustomed to seeing rabbits and squirrels through their backyard windows, have been reporting somewhat larger 
animals  hopping  over  their  hillsides  the  past  two  weeks  - 
kangaroos.  
Several  sightings  of  the  Australian  marsupials  have  been'  

reported to bewildered have· been reported to bewildered authorities, starting April 7. In all the reports, the animals are described as fast-moving, between three feet and five feet tall, the color of a deer and possessing a long tail. 

Weather 

Cloudy with a 60-percent chance of showers and thunderstorms today, a few heavy thunderstorms with hail and strong winds possible. Highs in the low-SO's. Mostly cloudy tonight with Iowa in the mid-to-upper 30's. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the upper-SO's. 


On Campus Today ____,_,. 
10:00 am~ 3:00pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
6:00pm 
6:30-9:30 pm 7:00pm 
7:00 pm 
7:30 
pm 

7:30 
pm 7:30pm 


8:45-midnite 
9:00 pm-3:00am 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe, Jr. Asst. Night Editor: Marti Hogan Layout Staff: Dawn Miller, Ed Neuert, Willie "Dickman" Foster Editorial layout: Martha Fan­ning Editorial layout: Martha Fan­ning Features Layout: What, no Brzhob? Sports Layout: The "Tucker­inner" journal and Fearless Frank Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Tricia Meehan, Lisa DiValerio (HOOOEEE!) EMT: Mike Bodle DAy Editor: Kathy McEntee· Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni : Ad Layout: Bob Rudy Photographer: David Rum­bach 
_ 

videotape "excellence in action, 1977" sports film sponsored by students international meditation society. lobby of memorial library. 
seminar "chromosomal differentiation in stegomyia mosquitoes," moosa motara, nd. 278 galvin audi­torium. sponsored by biology dept. 
ceremony army rotc spring awards. memorial library auditorium. 
banquet nd women's sports banquet in monogram room a.c.c. 
contest an tostal trivia bowl competition. semi­finals. washington hall. 
meeting bike club meeting to elect new officers. Iafortune rathskeller. old and new members wel­come. 
film series "farewell my lovely" carroll hall smc. 
eucharist charismatic eucharist. log chapel. open to all. 
second scene drama "the time of your life" vegetable buddies. no charge. 
talk fr. edward malloy will speak on the topic of premarital sex. walsh chapel. sponsored by walsh liturgical commission. 
nazz performance music by brian mchale, jim murray, and debbie shemancik; and jim speier, rich marcello, matt feeney, and greg sobkowski. 
irish pub opening night. featuring the irish brigade. continues wed., thurs., and sun. at senior bar.. faculty and students invited. 
DANCE LESSONS student union ballroom. wed. apr. 26, 8:45-9:4.5 
learn Hustle and Waltz 
instructors dan & janella from the DAN O'DA Y studio. ADM 
SCIENCE MAJORS 


Are you looking for a position that allows you to take advantage of your abilities? As a Navy Of­ficer you receive an excellent salary· with plan­ned raises and advancement. 
312-657-2234 COLLECT 


·-~·--~--~-~----------~--------~ 


Hanna receives sentenc e 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -Despite a 
' tearful apology and his attorney's · fervent plea for mercy, former California Rep. Richard T. Hanna was ordered yesterday to spend six months to two-and-one-half years in prison for his role in the Korean influence-buying scandal. Hanna, a white-haired, 64-year­old Democrat, is the only past or present member of Congress to be convicted in the case. One other, former Rep. Otto Passman of Louisiana, has been charged, and at least two more indictments are widely expected. 
A former six-term congressman who moved to Fayetteville, AR, 
CDC workshops by request only 
The Saint Mary's Career Deve1 opment Center (CDC) Workshop series for the second semester is over, yet student may still request additional seminars if they are interested. 
Students should sign up in the CDC office if they need further assistance in their career plans. Workshops will then be scheduled to meet their needs. 
According to CDC .Coordinator Betsy Twitchell, "As of this Mon­day, workshops on demand will be available. When enough students sign up a workshop will be held." 
The CDC library will continue to be open on Monday nights from 7-10 p.m. 

ERRATUM 

The Bookstore Basketball player for "Linda Lovelace" is Gary Thompson, not "Scot Thompson" as reported in yesterday's Ob­server. 
Berkowitz fit 

to stand trial 

NEW YORK IAP]-Declaring that 
David R. Berkowitz displays an 
"understanding of his predica­ment, a judge ruled yesterday that the 24-year-old postal clerk is mentally competent to stand trial for the last of the six "Son of Sam murders. 
State Supreme Court Justice Joseph R. Corso set a May 8 trial date after making his finding that the defendant is able to understand the charges against him and assist in his own defense. 
But the competency finding makes it possible for Berkowitz to plead guilty, a desire he has expressed several times. 
The Observer Is published Mon­diY through Friday except during exam 1nd vautlon periods. Tl!e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame 1nd Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year (51 0 per semester) from The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame. Indiana 46556. Seeond c1111 postegtr paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4Ull6. 
The Observer Is 1 member of the Anocleted Prell. All repro. ductlon rlgllta ere reaerved. 
upon his retirement in 1974, Hanna 
appeared contrite and shaken as he 
haltinillY told District Judge Wil­
liam Bryant, "I hope in the years 
that I have left I can do something 
to atone for what I have done." 
Hanna's attorney, Charles 
McNelis, argued passionately for 
his freedom, saying that no "con­
ceivable and earthly good would be · . accomplished" by imprisonment 
for taking what the government 
said was upwards of $200,000 from 
South korean businessman Tong­
sun Park. 
But after Hanna himself had 
spoken, his voice trailing off in 
choked emotion, Bryant looked him 
coldly in the eye anbd ordered him 
to surrender to a federal prison 
within 30 days after the Justice 
Department decides upon the ap­
propriate facility. 
He must serve at least six 
months before he is elgible for 
parole. o 
Hanna seemed stunned and ini­tially declined to talk with report­ers, but later he attributed the prison term to his office-holding. 
The judge, he said, "has to keep 
Sign ups will be in the 
for Off campus Students
student offices 
& those moving off

this week. 
next year. 

a respect for the law, so when a 
congressman comes along, listen, 
he's in worse trouble than if he 
weren't a congressman. I'd have 
been better off if this was my first 
rap for pushing dope." 
"I'm not looking for any sym­pathy or tears or anything. I'm just going to do what I have to do and that's get in there and do my time." 
The former congressman had entered a bargained guilty plea March 17 to one count of conspir­acy to defraud the government, a charge bearing a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $10,000 fine. 
The plea agreement averted a trial on a 40-count indictment returned by a grand jury last fall that also included bribery, mail fraud and a number of other charges. Government attorney Jeffrey White dropped the remain­ing charges after the sentencing. 
Hanna said he would begin serving his term May 8 at the minimum security prison at Max­well Air Force Base near Montgom­ery, AL. 



CORBY'S 
Hamm's Party Tuesday night three drafts for a buck shots of SCHNAPPS 50ceach 
mUSICAL EVEnTot theYEAR 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTH BEND 
and 

BETHEL COLLEGE with the SOUTH BEND SYMPHONIC CHOIR present 
An Epic Grand Opera 
April 27, 29 and lar 2, 4, 6 
I.U.S.I. 
luditori• -7:30 pm Tickets $7.50, $5.50, $3.50 

D. 
Ralph Appelman as the har 


OPERA IN ENGLISH 
Order tickets now. Call 237-41 02 

'Tuesday, April 25, 1978 the observer 
3 

South Korean passengers relieved, but angry 

SEOUL * South Koprea fAP] ­Sipping champagne and sobbing, survivors from a South Korean jetliner downed in the Soviet Union finally reached their destinations yesterday, but anger and mystery lingered over the incident in the 
nighttime skies above the Russian 
Arctic. 
"How could they shoot our innocent and unguarded son? I cannot sleep when I think about his last moment in the plane,"' said the mother of Yoshitaka Sugano, 31, one of two passengers killed when a Russian interceptor jet blasted a hole in the side of the Boeing 707 after it strayed into Soviet airspace Thursday. 
Ritsuko Sugano spoke with re­porters at the Tokyo airport, where a relief plane carryi~g surviving passengers and crew, mostly Japa­nese and Korean, stopped before its final leg to Seoul. 
"The Soviet attack was an irre­sponsible act.. .it was unforgive­able," said the dead man's father Takahiro Sugano. 
When it landed here, the Korean Air Lines relief jet unloaded a casket holding the body of the other victim -Korean engineer Bang Tae-hwan. Ten other persons were wounded. 
The Soviets on Saturday released the 95 surviving passnegers and 11 of 13 crew members from the 

ND task force to handle 0-C problems 
Kathleen Connelly Senior Staff Reporter 

An off-campus "task force" ·is presently being organized to han­dle problems of off-campus stu­dents. 'Student Government Off­Campus Commissioner John Fitz­patrick will head the group which will deal specifically with housing, crime and security. northeast neighborhood relations, party pol­icy, transportation, and a variety of other problems. 
Fitzpatrick said that from per­sonal experience he found the Housing Office to be ineffective in its dealings with students and their housing listing inaccurate. 
Aparently, Fitzpatrick c;ommen­ted, the University also refuses to put pressure on unethical .landlords and fails to warn students who are seeking off-campus lodging about landlords known to be, unscrup\1­lous. 
Fitzpatrick added that the Uni­versity also refuses to put pressure on unethical landlords and fails to warn students who 'are seeking off-campus lodging about landlords 
known to be unscrupulous. 
Fitzpatrick added that ·'1e Uni­versity itself causes sorr,• prob­lems. As an example of this, he cited the case of some transfer students. 
"When transfer students get here." Fitzpatrick claimed,"the University leads them to believe that they'll get on-campus housing in a relatively short time. Because of this." Fitzpatrick continued. "students don't want to commit themselves to a lease and end up paying exhorbitant rents and often never get on-campus housing." 
The problem can be complicated, Fitzpatrick said when repairs are 
need posters in a hurry? 

_,I

. ---... 
•nsly·pr1nts 
the wiz of the printJ.nt biz! 
100 -11 x 1 7 posters only 'SI 0.00 203 n main wntown s(.. Send 289-6977 
ill-fated  Korean  Air  Lines  707,  said U.S. officials asked the Soviet  members  uncorked  bottle  after  But as  the  plane  approached  
which  was  forced  to  make  an  Foreign Ministry for information on  bottle of champagne to celebrate  Korea, he wrote,  "first, the pas- 
emergency landing on a frozen lake  their whereabouts.  South Korea  their safe return, a Korean reporter  sengers appeared very  much  ex- 
in Russia's northwest corner.  does not have diplomatic relations  aboard the relief plane wrote.  cited...then, some of the crewmen  
But the pilot and navigator !>till  with Moscow.  "Nationalities  didn't  matter.  began sobbing, aurl suddenly all of  
remained in Soviet hands Monday,  On Sunday's flight  to  the  Far  They mingled together and  con- the returning crew burst into tears,  
and diplomatic sources in Moscow  East,  the  passengers  and  crew  gratulated one another," he said.  some crying ~loud." 

fF========·================:;::==============================a 
Judicial Council selects CLC representative 
The 1979-79 Judicial Council, a body fbrmed by the new student Goverment constitution, held its first meeting last night in the Memorial Library Lounge. • 
The Council consists of the Judicial Coordinator, Jayne Rizzo; .her staff, Kevin Mescall, Tom Gorman and Kristin Quann; and the Judicial Board Chairmen from each hall. 
:At last night's meeting the Council selected its Campus Life Council [f;ontinued on page 6] 
Pictured from left are Judicial Commissioner Jayne Rizzo, Tom Gorman and Kristin Quann. [Photo by Dave Rombach] 
, ' 

needed on the house, and landlords refuse to make repairs since they are not bound by an agreement to do so. 
"Some landlords operate five to six houses in this way JUSt to rip off students. They don't know that in some cases, the tenant could withhold rent until the landlord makes repairs," Fitzpatrick obser­ved. 
The off campus group will fulfill a variety of functions, Fitzpatrick said. "It will be a referral service, 
an  investigative body  and  a  task  
force  implementing  policies  and  
programs."  

Fitzpatrick said that he would like to see the University Housing 

·o~v.~"' 
~1 \l~ ~ov.~ "~: &45-12 \~J. 
brian me hale, jim murray c,'Qo'f\ and debbie shemanik AND jim speier, rich marcello, matt feeney and greg sobkowski. 
WED. JAZZ IN THE NAZZ 
Office draft a landlord code of ethics that landlords would have to agree to before being listed on the University housing information sheets. He also believes that a policy censoring problem landlords would be very effective if it had University backing. 
"Saint Mary's has no special off-campus housing authority,'' Fitzpatrick said, "so I hope to involve the Saint Mary's commu­nity in this program also." 
Fitzpatrick emphasize:d that the new group would be different from the recently organized Off-Campus Commission (OCC). The OCC acts as an advisory board to the Vice President for Student Affairs "but from my experience," Fitzpatrick asserted, "The OCC will not be very effective." 
Originally, the interest of off­campus residents were to be repre­sented by four people on the newly-established Council of Communications, but due to a lack 
[continued on page 6] 

Student Union Cultural Arts Commission 
announces 


Please leave name and number with Student Union Seaetary, 2nd floor LaFortune. You will be oontaded 
Lock 


your doors! 

Over the past weekend there have been several thefts on the Notre DAme campus from Morrissey, Pangborn, Cavanaugh, and the ROTC Building. In each case the doors were left unlocked. 
The Security Department is asking your cooperation to please lock your door when you are not in your room. 



~~KThe' Observer 
iln independent newspaper serving Box Q the notr~ dilme and saint mary's Notre Dame commumty Ind. 46556 
~he O~server is p~blished by students of the University of otre arne a~d Samt Mary's College. It does not necessaril~~lect the pohcres of the administration of either institution y 
e . news rs_ reported as accurately and as objectively ~s possrble. Edrtonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Edrtonal Board Commentanes, opinions and letters are the vrews of therr authors Column space is available t0 11 
members of the community, and the free expression of va opmrons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Gruley 

Letter draws thoughts 
Dear Editor, In answer to the letter entitled 

r 
I 
"New Small World" we have a few thoughts we would like to share. The author, or authors, of this letter hide behind an almost anonymous signature. It is very difficult for me to imagine that the thoughts expressed in this letter could be those of the whole ND faculty. This is one of the leading universities in the United States and its faculty is of the same high quality. That such 
gifted  scholars  would  resort  to  
public  and  anonymous  criticism,  
before  contacting  the  interested  

parties, is simply beyond my capacity for understanding. 
It also appears that either this person is grossly misinformed or ~imply refuses to recognize 'the 1acts. Although he doesn't name the group it is plain to see he refers to the Pan-American Club's part in the International Festival. In case 
he is misinformed, I'll attempt to set him straight. First of all, with respect to the length of our show it shou!d ~e noted it was thl! only multmatwnal show. All nations took an average of frvc minutes each. ours took about fifteen, but it attempted ro represent twenty one countries, while actually including music from eight. Actually, for each country we took less than anyone else. h should also be noted that we didn't ask to be last, 
the  scheduling  was  not  in  our  
hands.  
It  is  amazing  we  should  be  

accused of lack of consideration, 11 hen we rehearsed some twentv hours for that show, while mo!.t of us had schoolwork piling on. h was Francisco Alonso, a latin­American, along with luis and Nino Alvarez, who designed and put up the slide show and back­drop. It was also Mr. Alonso who operated the slide projectors. 
If you think sitting there for three h.ours was ba~l. imagine we spent smc_c seven trll three Friday night settmg up that stage so you could enjoy the Festival. All of the setting up backstage for all acts during the Festival was accomp­lished by the same people who latter took part in our act. So you sec, we were not so selfish after all. 
Finally, the Festival was supposed to familiarize the audience with the different cultures. l.atin· 
i~ 
ry g 
and fun 

loving people. Too bad your bigotry kept you from enjoying the show as much as we did. 
Sergio L. San Pedro Jpse M. Sagardia Guillermo E. Cabrera p Antonio Dominguez an-American Club Officers: 
Observer article amended 

Dear Editor: 
I was glad to see the coverage in The Observer given to the recent Alcohol Awareness Awareness week on the ND-SMC campuses. I would like, however, to amend three points in your article on my presentation. First, I stated that valium is the most frequently prescribed drug in the United States, not the second most ore-
OOONESBURY 
WfJJ..., OtJKE, IF YEAH, HOW fAE CAN'T OIVIF7; AWT "lAVA­Wt MGITA5W.L. LAVA"LENNY? 
t &J 91fXJPfN6. 60T '/OU FAMILIAR : ANY FREE /l6eJ15 WfTH "LAVA­
• you IA/A's·tAUK? 

opinion ----------·-·----··-------·----·---·-.. ··---------------· 


Blame the system! 
iliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliililiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--.marc hansen 
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor 
Executive Editor 
Executive Editor 
Editorial Editor Cor't Editor St. Mary's Editor 
News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor 
Features Editor 


Americans are a loud 
Well, R.A. selections for next year have just concluded. In my opinion, the entire process should be reviewed. It: is a farce! For the 
! uninitiated, let me explain. 0~ the application form for R.A. applicants must list, in preferential order, the three halls in which they w~mld I_ike to work. The problems With th1s are myriad. First of all, you are allowed to be interviewed be more than these halls if you receive permission from the rectors of the additional halls. The form however, does not state this, nor does anyone tell you. The_ vast majority of applicants, restnct themselves, therefore, to the three halls which they have listed. Secondly, a number of rectors will not even look at those aooli­cants who do not list his hall firSt: Many rectors take the numbers as a 
scribed drug for women facing stress. 
Second, my predictions of a malpractice suit are for a death res~lting from alcohol-drug inter­action because a physician pre­scribed sedatives to a known alcoholic. (Even the packaging accompany.in~ valium now clearly sta!es _t~at tt ts not to be prescribed to tndlvtduals addicted to alcohol, but too many physicians continue to use valuim and other tranquil­izers to "treat" alcoholism.) 
Third, ''foetal alcohol syn­drome,'' a pattern of birth defects, does not occur in all children born to women alcoholics (various stu­dies show it running 20-40%) nor it it limited to alcoholics. Heavy drinking for as little as a week at a critical phase of pregnancy can result in a full or partial syndrome. The precise amounts of alcohol needed for damage to occur and the phases of pregnancy where the foetus is most vulnerable are yet to be determined by research. 
Teresa Kline Executive Director Ak'Oholism Coun.:H of St. Joseph County 
by Garry Trudeau 
A 1<10 I 015CfJVE#D SLINGING COCONIJT5

NCM.. 
0URJN6 MY TENURE

/AH) 
IN PA(j(} PA60. H£3'5

/SHE? 
NOIJJ PlAYING fRIJNTI f()(JR. FOR. THe UONS. 

personal affront. They rationalize 
halls where rectors open the jobs to
this snobbery by saying that you 
couldn't really want to live in their hall if you didn't put them down · 
first. What they don't know is that some appli~ants do not, for political reasons, hst the halls in their preferred order. 
Let's say my three hall choices are A,B, and C. However, due to the fact that I know the rector of the hall B won't give me an interview unless he is first on my list, I'll put B as number one. The rector in hall C only looks at people who put his hall first or second. So I move him up from the third position to the second. My favorite hall, the real number one, is now relegated to third place. Why? Because it is just so happens the rector of this hall is a fair guy and will interview me regardless of what number I place next to. 
There are those rectors, also, who won't look at you even if you did list their hall first. Why? They have a "policy" where all 
R.A.'shave to be residents of that hall. If you put such a hall as your first choice, you have effectively "blown" your number one slot. It is.conceivab~e that some poor guys will not be mterviewed by any of the halls they have chosen. 
I disagree with this "in-hall R.A. policy" immensely. Don't we want to get the BEST R.A. 's possible? Is this not the reason why the rectors un~nimously rejected the proposal which would have given R.A. postions only to those in "financial need?" This policy is inconsistent with maintaining an in-hall R.A. policy. One rector that hires only m-hall R.A. applicants told me he was dissappointed at the poor quality of applicants from within the hall. I asked him if he would consider hiring R.A.'s from out­side. His answer --"NO!" Can you imagine how bitter, frustrated, shocked, and totally disgusted this can make one feel? 
This is Notre Dame. I keep hearmg that we are all members of the "Notre Dame Community." Well. where is it when we need it? Why do these rectors obviously feel that everyone from outside of their respective halls are not a part of this "community?" 
In this same hall, one R.A. told me they used the R.A. positions as a type of "reward." Is it that R.A. positions arc to be awarded? 
Some rectors choose R.A. 's from within the hall on the basis that the 
R.A. is likely to know many people on his floor. Apparently the rationalization behindthisis that he will be more readily accepted by the residents. 
This idea is tilled with holes. First of all, is this R.A. able to enforce the hall regulations equit­ably? If many residents are his friends, he may not want to endanger these friendships. For example: Jo has his girlfriend sl.ecp over on Friday and Saturday nrghts. The R.A. may know this, but Joe was his roommate fresh­man year and they are now drinking buddies. How could he report good ole Joe? 
In other words. the R.A. who has lived in the same hall before becoming an R.A. is faced with many difficult decisions and his effectiveness may be imparied. Rectors may delude themselves by thinking that such examples rarely occur; but they are grossly mis­taken. These are daily occurances, even more so with R.A.'s chosen from the same hall. Not knowing the residents on your tloor is more valuable because you do not have established likes and .dislikes, friendships and animosities. In­stead, they arc all treated cqually, and their actions determine your opinion of them. 
This "in-hall R.A. policy" ad­versely affects both off·campus students who want to move back on campus, and residents in the. few 
outsi!k applicants. For the hall residents, there is stronger compe­tition to get a R.A. position in thier their own hall because they are not . g~ven any preference. This pro­VIdes better R.A.'s in these halls. However, the residents are then repulsed at other halls where they don't hire R.A.'s from outside the dor~. This is the price they pay for havmg a totally fair and above­
board rector. 
If an R.A. applicant suffers 
throuh all this garbage, and does 
obtain an interview, he can expect 
to be further disillusioned. 
At the conclusion of my first 
interview (with the present R.A.'s) 
I was told, "Good interview, great. 
In the second hall, (also with the 
R.A. 's) they said, "ofall the people we have interviewed, there are only two that we will recommt:n<l and you are one of them." Soon after I received a reject letter from the first hall and never heard anything from the second. 
Why? That was my question. 
One of the rectors I have yet to 
track down. It seems he is 
available when I am usually asleep. 
When I asked the second rector 
why I was rejected, he gave me a 
glassy stare and mumbled some­
thing about wanting people who 
were "good for the hall." It seems 
a multitude of sins is swept behind 
that phrase. I ac;ked for a little 
clarification; something more con­
crete, but none was forthcoming. 
How could this guy sit in judge· 
ment of me when he didn't even 
know me? Only once before had he 
spoken with me at a time when I 
expressed my enthusiasm for his 
hall. 

Before this time my friends in 
the hall had suggested I speak with 
current R.A. 's about the hall and 
the R.A. job. On three consecutive 
nights I went to the hall in search of 
on-duty R.A. 's All their doors were 
locked and the lights out. On the 
fourth night. one of the R.A.'s 
supposedly on duty was in his room 
with a girl in a rather compro­
ising position. How could I be less 
"good for the hall" than that? 
There was also a third hall that 
never contacted me at all. My 
name and phone number were 
misplaced somewhere amongst the 
hall staff. Who ends up paying for 
this gaffe? The R.A. applicant, of 
course. The fact that it was their 
fault that he was "too late for an 
interview" doesn't seem to phase 
them at all. 
What's so depressing is that this 
is all true and has been experien­
ced by myself or my friends. It 
amazes me that rectors arc so 
blind. They don't s\!e, for example, 
that someone who has graduated, 
worked a year or two, and returned 
to Dulac has much more personal 
experience than someone who has 
lived in the same hall for the past 
three years. He is much more 
capable of assisting the residents. 
I'm not suggesting anyone be given 
preference. but how about an equal 
chance? Judge us on our merits; 
don't stereotype us. 
Another remedy would be to 
remove the numbers on the R.A. 
application forms. That way the 
rectors will not know who picked 
their hall as number one, two or 
three. All applicants will be on 
equal footing; all will have to be 
interviewed. No longer will there 
exist this cavalier attitude of only 
looking at those whn choose the 
hall first. 
As long as the rectors maintain the same power in the selection of 
R.A. 's without any obligation to even consider the r<'commcnda­tions of the current R.A. 's appli­cants will be subject to the pre· judices. personal biases, whims 
and caprice of the rector. 
For those of y(l!l who did not get an R.A. position; don't blame you~sdf. Blame the system. , Tuescby, April25, 1978 


,... --. the observer____ s 

Measles not seen as threat
tJan ~Ost:al by Mark Peterson !Problem with this strain of measles ling problems on the campus, he is in the diagnostic stage. "The said. All of the students are being 

Haystack search 
' Yes, you too can fool around in a haystack. At 3 p.m. on Frivolous . Friday all you eager young men and women can dive iinto th•e lltay and attempt to find the hidden prize (a needle?). You may find your own surprise. Remember, dtis is an individual event. 
For more information, call Marie at 4-1-4833. 


r. GoocJbar contest 
The An Tostai"UbkingfoJr Mr. Goodbar Contest" is in its s•econd day. Have you found the candybar hidden somewhere on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus yet? 
If so, or when you do find nt, submit your name and the location of 
' the Mr. Goodbar c~ndy bar to the Ombudsman. A drawing from all correct entries will be held, and the winner of the drawing will receive a dinner for two. To aid you in your continuing search, here's your second due: Tum the Pages. The contest willcontinue through Friday and three more clues will be given. 

Musical bus ride 
Start Gentle Thursday off tight and take a fun-filled, musical bus ride. A double-decker bus will leave from LeMans every hour starting at noon and from the Center for Continuing Education every half four until 6 p.m. Enjoy a live bluegrass band and arrive in style to the picnic at Saint Mary's. 

South Bend 500 
The green flag will fall on Sunny Saturday at 9 a.m. for the 1978 An Tostal Road Rally. All you'll need is your own vehicle, gas and all the navigators you can stand. A street map of South Bend-Mishawaka might also help. 
For more information and to register, call Tim "Panth·~·" Malloy at 7820 or Jim Swintal at 287-5726. 

Irish wake 
Tickets for this year's Irish Wake. traditionally the best-known An Tostal event, are on sale now at all the dining halls and at the Student Union ticket office. Tickets will also be sold at the door. Admission is $2 and includes free munchies, bread. cheese. pretzels. chips and soft drinks. 
The Wake will be held in Stepan Center on Saturday at 9 p.m. and will feature the band "Unity" and special guests "The Irish Brigade." The winner of that dubious honor The Ugliest Man on Campus will be announced during the Irish Wake. 

Trivia semifinals 
The men's and women's semifinal rounds of the 1978 Trivia Bowl will be held tonight at Washington Hall beginning at 6:45p.m. with Stanford taking on St. Ed's. At 7:30p.m. LeMans and McCandless will vie for the SMC title followed by the other men's semifinal between Pangborn and Morrissey. 
At 9 p.m. Badin will meet Walsh in the second women's semifinal. Men's and women's finals and the campus champion will be decided Thursday or the Main Quad at 2:30p.m. 
AL cards in Stepan 

The following departments in the Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters will distribute checkmarked cards in Stepan Center tomorrow starting at 8:30a.m.: 
Art, Economics, English, Govern­ment, Modern Languages, Music. Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology and Anthropology. Speech and Drama, Theology. 


FLANNER 
~G) RECORD 

I, 
$1.00 

CHUGGING CO.NTEST!! 
men's and women's divisions troohies for winners prizes for Bill runner-ups OTHER SPECIAL EVENTS 
u---------------·---------------------­
... 

The outbreak of German measles that is currently affecting more than 100 Notre Dame stude:nts is not seen as a threat to reach epidemic proportions, according to Dr. Robert Thompson, Universilty physician. 
Thompson said l($t samples taken at ND were forwarded to the Indiana State Board of Health, where the rubella virus, characteJr­ized by swollen glands, stiffness of the joints, and the familiar red rash, was confirm•ed. 
Thompson stated that the biiggest 

ACTIOI'I seeks Peace Corp~;, 
VISTA v~~~unteers. r:.1=.1.=.uNTI=-===-=o=-=-N-::-·.-~==========r 
ACfiON, the f'ederal volunteer U 
agency, will hold a major r4~cruit­
ment campaign tomorrow and Thursday at Notre Dame. Recruit­er~ will be looking for qualified volunteers to serve for two years in the Peace Corps or one year in Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA). 
Recruiters will hold interviews and explain the two programs from 9 a.m. to S p.m. each day at the Library Concourse and the Place­ment Center. 
Both programs require that a person have a college degree or knowledge of a skilled trade with a few years of experience; be at least · 18 years old; and be a U.S. citizen (Peace Corps) or a U.S. resident (VISTA). 
early symptoms--sore throat, nasal congestion, and irritation in the throat--are similar to a common respiratory virus", he said, "so we cannot be absolutely sure". 
He noted that in a number of cases students caught the measles despite previous immunization, adding to the uncertainty. 
The number of new cases is gradually decreasing, but they more than likely will continue until the end of the semester. "The incubation period for rubella can be anywhere from two to three weeks", Thompson said, "so we anticipate a few more students will contract the virus.'' 
The reported 100-150 cases to date have caused no major hand­
~d ~ 
· 

A Senior Cultural Arts Festival is being planned for next year. 
any :rinterested in being 
Chairperson or m · menD!r should drop off a sta1ement of intent in the Student Adivities Offim (1st floor LaFortune) by lbur$day April 27. For info1'111i1fion call Jeny A!rez (6721) or Jeny Castellini (2216). 
treated to relieve symptoms, with the more serious cases confined to the Health Center for two or three days to reduce the chances of transmitting the "bug" to room­mates and friends. No cases of confinement in a South Bend 
·hospital have been reported . Th-ompson, who is working with Dr. Bernard Vagner, said that the German measles can start for a number of reasons, and are spread very easily in a closed environment like a college campus. 
Each year a small number of measles cases occurs here much later in the spring. but the doctor could give not reason for the larger number of cases or the earliness of this year's outbreak. 

LEE'S Bar-B-Que is having a party Tues. , April 25 ! 
1132 S. Bend Ave. 

3 pm -Dusk : Outside Dusk-Closing: inside  
MILLER PITCHERS-$1.50 MILLER Buckets andBeer Bucket Refills - 

289-0639 


-$2.00 

s 
. ' 

Tuesday, April 25, 1978
the observer 


• br Michael Molinelli 


Future trial IS 'made for TV' 
FANTASTIC REPULSIVE 

WASIDNGTON !API -The Su-"raped" with a beer or soft drink I Court refused to review the case, preme Court refused yesterday to bottle. ' NBC and KRON came to the decide whether broadcasters are A state trial judge dismissed the · nation's highest court -arguing legally responsible when fictional ensuing civil suit against NBC and ' that the trial would set a dangerous violence is imitated in real life, KRON but a state appeals court · precedent. clearing the way for a trial that ordered that a jury trial be held on The court's vote yesterday to . could be crucial to the future of . charges raised by the girl's law-deny the appeal was 8-1, Justice ' television. i yers. William J .. Brennan, Jr. wanted to . 
The issue someday may return to j After the California Supreme 1 hear arguments in the case. the high court, but yesterday's , actions opened the way for an u.nprecedented trial in San Fran-: 0 • c 
CISCO. I 
task forcb forms 
In the trial, NBC and television Off-Campus guide patterned afterstation KRON-TV must defend [continued from page 3) 
of response to requests for volun­similar guides at other campuses. 
themselves against a lawsuit seek­He stressed the need for mem­ing $11 million for a 9-year-old girl teers. that plan was shelved. As a bers and requested that thosesexually assaulted four days after a result, Fitzpatrick decided to interested call him at 232-4904 or
a
network movie dramatically por­attempt the organization of 
trayed a similar crime. separate group that would have apply at the Student Government I Lawyers for the girl charge that input into the Council, but would Offices." Membership In the NBC and the San Francisco station also have an identity of its own. group," he said, "is not restricted were "negligent" and "reckless" "What I'd like to do. "Fit:-patrick to off-campus residents." in allowing the movie to be said, "is to set up a permanent 
Fitzpatrick also forsees the ex­broadcast in the early evening body which will continue through panded use of Student Government when young persons were sure to changeovers in administrations." 
Cabinet resources in dealing with be in the viewing audience. "The number of members on the the off-campus housing situation,On Sept. 10, 1974 • NBC tele­task force. or committee, or coun­and the possibility of an off-campusvised fictional drama, "Born Inno­cil; I don't know what to call it yet, 
publication.

cent," depicting the life of an depends on student response. I'll unwanted child. a teen-aged girl. take virtually anyone who will The minutes of a meeting be­In one scene, the girl is attacked by apply," Fitzpatrick stated. "All tween Fitzpatrick, Student Body other females at a reformatory the members will be on an equal President Andy McKenna and school and is sexually assaulted part, working in a 'Single area of Student Body Vice-President Mike Roohan state that the group "is to
with a wooden handle. concern." 
be an 'activist' organization, as the
Four days later, a 9-year-old San Fitzpatrick, who is an off-campus Francisco girl was attacked by four resident will remain in South Bend present situation is in need of older .':iris on a locaL beach and over the summer to compile an action and much research." 
a a • • • :1.
c I 
c

• a 
• THE NEW SPECiALS • 
presented by the 






LffiRARY 
• 

c• 1a a • o =' 
I 
I 
I 
I 

TUESDAY /.14oz Draft special 50c ~ARGEST DRAFT IN TOWN 
I 

f 7 ..... midnite 
I 
I 

WEDNESDAY 
A11heuser -Busch Night 
I 

25c off all A-B Products including 
1

I ~ MICHELOB LIGHT 
I I 


7--.12
I 
I 

CARRY OIJT SPECI~S Old Style 12 pack -$2.79 
I 

Blatz -$5..05 per case 
~lcSorley Cream Ale 6 pack -$1.59 
Katn<'hatka Vodka -$4.50 quart 
Note: TAX NOT IN(J.llOED 
Supply timited
• 


Judicial Counril 
hn'"'~ m~t:)tin,., 
[continued from page 3) 
representative, Bill Walsh of Pang­
born Hall. The Council also select­
ed Sheila Quadrini of Walsh Hall to 
look into the problem of overcrowd­
ing in the dorms. 
Rizzo stressed the importance of 
setting up next year's Hall Boards 
as soon as possible. She also 
defined the purpose of the Judicial 
Boards saying that she wants to 
make students aware of University 
and hall rules and that the Judicial Coordinator is there to help them. Rizzo presented a proposed ver­
sion of the new Council's bylaws. 
The Council will wait until its next 
meeting. May 8. to vote on whether 
to approve these laws. 
According to these bylaws, the Judicial Council, "shall represent individually and collectively stu­dent interests in the area of judicial matters." The Council might also organize committees to work in conjunction with other campus organizations. Finally, the Council "shall recommend judicial changes.'' 


Mormons sponsor archaelogical film tonite 
The film "Ancient America 
Speaks" will be shown tonight and 
tomorrow night at 7:30 p.m. in the 
LaFortune Little Theatre. Admis­
sion is free. The event is 
sponsored by the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter Day Saints. 
The film presents some archae­
logical findings of Central and 
South America. These findings, 
the film claims, show that the 
ancient inhabitants of America 

were Christians, and descendants 
of the House of Israel through the 
Tribe of Joseph. 
Bookstore cut 



to 32 teams 
[continued from page 8) 
Last (Stepan 3;, TILCS V (Book­stort· CJ), Strappamasquon and his Combat Wombats (Stepan IJ. T.B. Express I (Bookstore 10) and Linda Lovelace and the Gang vs. the 300 Perl·ent Club at Stepan CllUrts. 
WSND AM will feature Rookstore 

Roundup every night at 10:30 Scores and stats of the day's games will be discussed . 
.' .: • .... .r 1. 
~----~~----~~ -------~ --~~ ~---~---..----------~-------~------------------------...., 
,Tuesday, April 25, 1978 

7 
dS ~C laSS

classified a 

NOTICES 

Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call 287-5162. 
Need ride for one lovel;< girl lfrom Puttsburgh & back for An Tostal Week­end. She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company! Call 6734. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc...typed, IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters 287­4971. 
Need away to get your goodies hom1B for summer? Baggage truck to Rochester, NY [Immediate surrounding area]. tall Frank at 232-3455. 
.
.lfi d ds c

• d d laSSl r,e a 
ds clas•si-fr,e a S C
;-fied a ' 'J' --------·---------­
~J 11 

Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details.
Connecticut baggage truck to Hartford and New Haven areas. Call Jim 3267 or 
Rent my sun porch in fall. $40.00 per
Kevin 3361 for information. 
month. Ask for Patty in orders. 233-1329 nights.
Nuns-summer rent June through August 
-------·----------·­
4bedroom house, tri-level. 255..5879 after 5 p.m. Lost &Found 
Save next year's book money now. Lost: Opal necklace lost Sat. A.M. on 
Pandora's buys used books for cash or campus. Reward. Call 288-9912 after 5 credit -applicable next year. Besides we p.m.have great books for summer reading. 937 South Bend Ave, 11-6 daily. Found: NO gym bag in ACC locker room. 
Identify contents. 8464. 
Typing -selectric typewriter. Exper­ienced -term papers, dissertations. Lost: SMC campus. Gold pearl l)racelet.Reasonable -accurate. 232-5715. Great sentimental value. Please call Teresita 4-1-4197. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? I:Oxecutary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Found: General Motors car keys in the 
Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page field behind the ACC. Call 2132. minimum. Call 232-089 "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. Found: Timex watch by Saint Mary's 
Lake. Call 2132. 
Typing -selectric typewriter. Exper­ienced -term papers, dissertations. Lost: Blue NO jacket at Nickle's. Reward. 
Reasonable -accurate. 232-5715. Name in jacket. 
Lost on the shuttle: Grandma's giftFOR RENT off-white umbrella with tortoise shell handle in a white leather case. BetwE:en 
Fine houses in good neighborhoods 6:30-9:30 Mon. Meg SMC 4781. 
(Portage and Angela area). R:easonable rents. For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Lost: Blue down vest in girls' locl<er room Joseph Gatto 234-6688. at ACC. Call Julie 7905. 

400fo off wi1·h no restridions. There's no lower 1fare from1 here to there. 

Continental's Chickenfeed Fares are the solution to the dis·­count fares confusion. Pure and simple. 
Chickenfeed Fares IS AUlOU NEB) 
are simple. There are 
no lower fares anywhere we fly. Save 40% on weekdays, 30% on week~~nds to all our mainland cities. (Between selected cities you'll save SO% or more.) 
They're this pure. There are no restrictions of any kind. No buying your ticket a month in advance. No minimum stays. No maximum stays. Fly one way or round trip. And get a full refund if you cancel. 

las ~f" d ads classified
SlJ r,e 
Lost: Notre Dame warm-up jacket while I was playing Bookstore with the TILC's. Call Kevin 8986. 
Lost: One blue fiberglass racquetball racquet with leather grip. Reward. Call 1605 if found. 
--------------::,..-'---­Lost: Girl's gold Seiko watcll, gold watch 
band. Call Kathy Rosenthal at 8125. Reward. 
Lost: Gold watch with engraved back. · 
Lost in the North Dining Hall, Farley 
Hall, or the road to SMC. Great 
sentimental value. Reward. Call Kathy 
6781. 

Found: A 1978 St. Anselm's college class ring. Found in the library. Call 7825. 
Lost: 45 foot silvery kite, 3:30 p.m. April 
13. over campus. Larry 233-5151, 233­7299. 
WANTED 

Steel-stringed accoustic guitar. PAY 
CASH. Joe Higgingotham 232-0723. 
2roommates to live off-campus next year in apartment very close to campus. If interested call Mary 4287 (SMC) or Bernie 4945 (SMC). 
New restaurant needs waitresses and kitchen help. Experience helpful, but not necessary. Apply in person after 1p.m. at Aunt Mike's Breakfast Barn, 51277 US 31 North, one block N of Auten Rd. South Bend. Ask for Aunt Mike 
Call your Camputs Rep, Travel Agent or Continental Airlines. Ask for the Chickenfeed Fare. Then make tracks for somewhere nice. Sample OneWay Fares Regular Coach Chickenfeed Percentage Chicago to: Fare Fare Savings 
Colorado Springs $102 $61 40% 
Denver 102 61 40% 
Kansas City 60 30 50% 
Los Angeles 16,5 99 40% 
Chickenfeed Fares efFective May IS. Weekdays (Monday-Thursday): weekends (Friday-Sunday). 
Chicago/Los Angeles $99 fare effective at this time on all nonstop flights. 
1111111

The only limitation is the number of seats . ..-••••• available. So don't wait. 

We really mowe clur tail for you. 


CON11NENTAL AIRUNES 8 
The Proud BiR:J with !he Gok:Jen Tail 

___________________. 
I'd like to purchase a compact refri­gerator at the end of this year. Call Tim at 1724. Thanks! 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer, year-round. Europe, s. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $50Q-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information ­Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS-Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 
(301) 654-3770, or send 2 complete resumesand2picturesto: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
Summer renters for nice house 3 blocks from campus. 3, 4 or 5 people. Call 283-8148. 
Living in Boston this summer and need a place to live? Call 283-8948. 
FOR SALE 

Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated material at all)w price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm, 
A 1971 Chevrolet Impala. Has power steering, and power brakes. Air con­ditioning. Call1681. 
Used golf balls -like new, $20 per 100 and other prices. Call 272-0783. 
Stereo equipment major brand discounts on fully guaranteed, factory sealed audio­video eqpt. Elliot Enterprises, Park Court, Buchanan Mich. 49107. Call Niles toll free 683-0121. 
Gibson LG-S guitar perfect condition. $325. Call Terry 288-3706. 
PERSONALS 

Today is St. Mark's Feast day and Doug Almeida's b-day. Happy 20th. 
Proceeds go to charity. Vote for UMOC today! 
Luv-a-vull, break a leg. 152. 
Patti Ruocco: Congratulations on Arizona But remember Sin must go! Worm-fisher 
RCL, Watch out for those pies... 
Dear Scoop, You are now one day closer to your date with the Grim Reaper. Happy birthday. Sincerely, Yourself 
Mike, Happy 21st birthday. You're the greatest! Love, Karen and "The Kids" 
Dear Mike, Happy birthday from Jim, Guamy, Jeff, Alex, Scoope, Sean, John, JK, Rick, Tim, Andy, Pat, Biv, Sim, Bones, Paul, Kevin, Don, Mike, Stretch, Rick, Mark, Bruce, and Tom! 
Anyone Interested in servinq as Press Secretary for Student Union s Cultural Arts Commission should contact Jerry at 6721. Observer experience desired but not necessary. 
Help wanted: Underclassmen wanted for stimulating, enriching work -this sum­mer and next year. Car necessary. Pandora's Books 233-2342. 
The Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council is holding Interviews for new members April 'l7. If Interested call Fank Murphy at 1073. 
Photo Club Dunes Trip Sunday April 30. Chalet on the lake Stevensville, MI. Free for members. Call Bill Reifstech, 1072 for answers. 
An Tostal Is almost here! Anyone Interested In joining In the Impersonation contest shou d contact K B at 4-1-4677 before Wednesday. 
Attention Returning Observer Typists: Fill out Observer personnel forms found in my box by Thursday (4-27) and return to me. These forms are necessary for payment on Friday. Mardi 
For 1978 why not he Worts: Otto for UMOC. 
Vote for Alumni's favorite dog: Otto for UMOC. 
El Club PaRamericaRo de Notre Dame anuncia Ia eleccioR de oficiales para el proximo ano a celebraise el dia 26 de Abril en eii.S.O. Lounge, a las 7:00P.M. Todos los miembros seran bienvenidos. 
Pourquoi pas le francais aussi?? 
Jeff, Thank you for a wonderful time last weekend. There Is nothing I'd rather do than walk down Michigan Avenue with you. Joan 
"Everyone was there" exclaimed J.J.J. and N. And we want to thank everyone for the best time of the semester. With love, J.J.J. and N 
Notn1 Dame Bane!: Vote Br 
·,, 

r---------------~-~-­
a the observer Tuesday, April 2s, 1971 



Irish icer Coach ''Lefty'' Smith pleased with Schafer's recruits 
"With all the people we had to School, I ake Placid, New York, replace due to the large number of where he was the third leading
by Gregory Solman 
ASIIOclate Sports Editor graduates," said Smith, "and the scorer. A notably hard checker. pressure of the unusually long 

JAMES BROWN 6-3, 200 po-ds:
This year had to be one of the 
season we undergo, there is a real 
A defenseman from Aquinasmost crucial recruiting years in the 
premium on numbers." 

Institute High School in Rochester,history of Irish hockey...and Rick 
A'\d unlike manr years, ~hen 
NY. Brown is expected to step inSchaefer, one might say, "came 
only one or two smgle positions' 
and help at defense. Two-yearthrough in the clutch." 
were lacking, ,this year, Smith 
all-star in the same league asIn this, the third year Schafer has 
needed depth in every slot, from 
present Irish defenseman, Jeffaccomplished the recruiting task 
goaltender to winger. Schafer did 
Brownschidle. A junior All-Ameri­for Irish Coach Charles "Lefty" not disappoint anyone:Smith, Schafer had more than his DAVE LAURION, 5-8, 165, Goal­can. 
work cut out for him. The Irish lost DAVE POULIN, 5-11, 175, Cen­
tender: A crucial position for the 
ten good skaters to graduation, ter: "Although there were two
Irish to fill, as there was previously
including two dominant "big men" players we recruited and wanted
no back-up goaltender to junior-to­
in Don Jackson and Kevin Nugent. quite badly, but didn't get," Smith
be Greg Rosenthal. Laurion was
The NCAA continued to gradual­comments, "Poulin is one of the
the recipient of the Meno Jachem
ly decrease its scholarships allowed finest prospects available." Com­
Award as best goaltender in the
each team. The figure that once ing from Mississauga, Ontario,
Iron Range Conference, and hails
stood at 25 scholarships over a four Poulin is known for his quick
from International Falls, Minne­
year period. had diminished to 23 speed, and tremendous scoring
sota. A highly tauted and recruited
in recent years, and, as of this ability; definitely one of the top
goalie, Laurion is also the Minne­
campaign, is down to 20. recruits this season.
sota State High School Pole Vault
Then there was the Irish season JEFF LOGAN, 5-10, 165, Right
Champion. Track Coach isn't a bit
last year--not particularly condu­Wing: "Jeffwas one ofthe top goal
upset about this recruit either.
cive to encouraging eager fresh­scorers in the Junior AA League,"
JOHN SCHMIDT, 6-0, 180, De­
men. Though the team finished the comments Smith on this winger
fenseman: Known for his puck­
third best in the nation two seasons from Gross Point Shores, Michi­
handling and scoring ability,
ago. last year, the Irish nose-dived gan. Logan attended University
Schmidt is a graduate of North­
to a seventh place in the WCHA, Liggett School, and was also an
wood Prep and comes from St.
due largely to a horrendous sche­outstanding tennis player and
Cloud, Minnesota. Academically in 
dule and a host of injuries that saw cross-country runner. His statistics
the top ten in his class.

them playing below .500 before tell the whole story: in 49 games he
JOHN COX, 6-0. 185, Defense­
they ever knew what hit them. scored 52 goals and 51 assists.
man: "John should give us good
According to the head man, JEFF PERRY, 5-10, 175, Right
depth at defense," comments
Smith, however, Schafer defied the Wing: Perry is a quick skating,
Smith. Cox is a native of Barrie,
odds and came up with some top goal-scoring prospect from Sud-.
Ontario, and played two seasons of 
prospects to join the squad next bury, Ontario. Perry was also
Junior A Tier II hockey. Again, 
season. recruited to play Junior A hockey,
another student/athlete with aca­
"I really have to commend Rick but instead he decided to bring
demic ability as well as athletic
(Schafer) on the job he's. done both impressive credentials (22 goals
talent.

in numbers and quality," commen­and 23 assists in 35 games) to the
GREG KANIA, 5-10, 195 De­
ted Smith, who's relaxed poise rink of the Fighting Irish.
fenseman: Hailing from Maine
would make one believe that he's BILL ROTHSTEIN, 5-8, 160, Left
South High School in Park Ridge,
put last year behind him and is Wing: Another top prospect from
Illinois, Kania was an all-confer­
looking forward to another out­the grand old hockey state of
ence selection four straight sea­
standing campaign. Minnesota--Grand Rapids, to be
sons. Also attended Northwood 
Bookstore cut to 32 teams 
opponents, the youngest team in the tournament. Strappamasquon
by Frank LaGrotta case to preserve the sportsmanship Sports Wrher of the tournament. Bookstore Basketball is supposed to be fun 
and His Combat Wombats easily Controversy once again clouded and if I ignore incidents like this, 
eliminated the Orbs. 21-13. The the proceedings as Notre Dame's play could get out of hand." 
Wombats advanced to the fourth lronmen took to the courts for In other tournament action, No. 
round largely due to the play of freshman Pete Holohan who con­round Ill of Bookstore '78. !-ranked TILCS V won in a nail­Tournament Commissioner Leo biter, 21-16 over Sweet William 
nected on nine baskets and gar­Latz was forced to disqualify Ernie and the Rolling Dice. The game 
nered nine rebounds. Kelly Tri­Hughes of 3 Spuds and 2 Duds on was tied at 12 before last year's 
pucka and Greg Knafelc tallied four apiece while John and Bill Mitchellan Unsportsmanlike Conduct champions pulled away. Dave hit five and four respectively for thecharge stemming from an incident Batton paced the winners with six which occured in a second round points and IS rebounds while 
losers. Bill Laimbcer. rapidly establish­game on Sunday. The game in teammates Willie Fry and Mike question was replayed yesterday Miller added four apiece. Fry ing himself as "Chairman of the Boards" in this year's tournament,with 3 Spuds defeating Skywalkers pulled down eight rebounds for the led No.3-rated Tappa Kegga Brusto advance to the third round. TILCS while Jim Dolezal dropped 
"I really didn't want to disqual­eight buckets for the losers. to a 21-9 drubbing of The Skipper ify anyone," Latz pointed our, "but While last year's champs had a 
and His Chief Petting Officers. I felt that it was necessary in thi!< bit of trouble disposing of their 
Laimbeer collared IS rebounds and scored five points while teammate Gary Forystek tallied seven for the winners. Laimbeer recorded what must have been the dav's "Most 
Awesome'slam dunk as ·hetook the ball on a fast break and sent the roundball halfway to China. Harv Bern hold hit five and pulled in seven rebounds for the losers. 
No. 4-secdcd Leo's Last kept winning; this time the victims were Ivory Magic who fell. 21-7. Rusty Lisch was the leading scorer for the victors with six hoops in 10 attempts. Dana Snoap contributed five and Jeff Carpenter three while Cris Sullivan had three for the losers. 
Orlando Woolridge, Bookstore Basketball's version of Julius Er­ving, continued to loosen rims as he hit eight of 11 to lead No. 5 ranked T.B. Express I to a 21-13 win over the Ofat Killers. "Dr. 0" slammed home three dunks, inclu­ding one that almost ruined the basketball, to raise his three-game dunking total to 14. Jim Stone also dropped eight of IS attempts for the Express while Sterling Mc­Cullough made good on six of nine for the Killers. 
If Doug Becker set a steal record on Sunday, Tom "Suds" Sudkamp broke it on Monday as he played thief seven times to lead Chumps Too to a 21-10 win over Wells Vargo. "Suds" tallied seven points and copped six rebounds as his crusade to repeat as Mr. Bookston: gained momentum. Bill 


.. 
-

~he "St~rk" will "stalk" no more, nor are there any recruits equal­1m~ K-.;vm Nugen!'s 6-5, 230 pound frame. But Irish mentor "lefty" Smdh •s happy wdh the talent Rick Schafer's recruited. 
exact. Rothstein will face brother as a hard hitter. 
John, who plays for Minnesota/Du­"I think the boys we recruited this 
luth, and has as attributes tremen­year have excellent credentials. 
dous hockey sense, stickhandling both on and off the ice,'' comments 
ability and great speed. Leading Smith, who is known for recruiting 
scorer in the Minnesota State High more than just "acadmically 
School Tournament. sound" hockey players. 
DANIEL COLLARD, 5-11, 180, "We're building a family within 
Left Wing: Last, but not least, is a family, so to speak." said Smith. 
Daniel Collard. an all-star from the on the closeness of his players. 
Detroit Junior Red Wings in the both on and off the icc, "These 
Great Lakes Junior A teague. boys get along well. you could say 
Collard comes from Flint South­we've established a hockey family 
western High School. and is known here at Notre Dame." 
National champions dethroned by Notre Dame relay team 
The Notre Dame "giant killer" team were such traditionally strong 
mystique spread to the track team teams as Texas, West Texas State, last weekend in Norman, Okla­Kansas University. and Arkansas homa, when in the Kansas Univer­State. sity relays, Irish tracksters Chuck "All four of the boys came up Aragon, Bill Allmendinger. Pete with an outstanding race," com­
Burger and anchorman Jay Mi­mented a jubilant Coach Piane, randa upset the defending National "and I'm extremely proud of their Champions in the two mile relay. accomplishments·· 
The four trackster's 7:26 tfme The Kansas Relays, one of the bested the mark posted by last more important meets of the sea­years NCAA Indoor National son were held this year in Norman Champions, New Mexico. Also Oklahoma due to th-e rcconstructio~ 
defeated by the Notre Dame relay of facilities in Kansas. 
"Foo" Hanzlik made good on 
seven of 12 attempts while collec­
ting 13 rebounds to dominate the 
boards. John Tucker substituting 
for injured Larry Morris shot a fine 
four of five from the field. Tom 
Varga led the losers with four. 
Drawing the largest crowd of the 
evening, Linda Lovelace and the 
Gang that C.B.S. defeated T.B. 
Express II. 21-14. Randy Haefner 
gave a clinic on shooting as he hit 
II of 14 including his last nine 
shots while Dan Hatfiled shot 
five-for-eight. Doug "Wrecker" 
Becker made a bid for the tourna­
ments "Hatchet Award" with 
seven of his team's nine personal 
fouls and Leroy Leopold dropped 
four of six for the losers. 
The tournaments's No. 8-ranked 
squad, The Nutmeggers relied on 
the shooting of Mike Howard (7-14) 
and Tim Kardok (8-17) to white­
wash Karl Wallenda and the San 
Juan Street Cleaners, 21-6. Kar­
dok delighted the crowd with a 
brutal slam dunk while Mark 
Langhans connected on four of 
seven of the Street Oeaners. 
In a game played on Lyons Court, the No. 9-rated Butcher Brothers tore the meat off The Bone 21-14. Bruce Aowers led the onslaught. courtesy of a to for 16 shooting performance. Aowers pulled down nine rebounds while teammate Dave Huffman collected eight for the winners. Dick Boushka scored six and Mike Mitchell, five for the losers. 

In other Bookstore action, Duck Williams, as was expected, finally made his tourney debut, as his -team, T.B. Express IV squashed the Selected Tomales, 21-15. Duck led the winner~ with seven points and 14 rebounds followed bv Speedy Hart with four points and 12 boards to his credit. Terry Hawkins tallied tive for the Express while Greg Riehle was high for the Tomatoes with four. Tim Donnelly had 14 rebounds for the losers. 
Green Popcorn had their hands full with I Phelta Thi Ill and barely escaped with a 21-16 win. Steve Notaro hit 10 of 21 shots for Popcorn while Kevin Hawkins had five and Gilbert Salinas four. Salinas and Hawkins pulled in 12 rebounds each while Salinas was credited with five blocked shots. 
John Kennedy's five-for14,  II  re­ 
bound  performance  was  tops  for  
the Thi.  

Other winners included: The Milkduds by 7; Karl Wallenda's Taxi Cab Service by S; Cloneheads by 3; Beers and Bowls Forever by 10; Feii...Five by 12 The Irish Guards by 13; Stevie Wonder and the D.E.'s by 13. 
Cool Russ and the Baby Boilers by 2; PLO Bus Tours by 3; Duke Street Kings by 9; Easy Living Paint by 5; The Nads by 4; Peter and the Flying Wallendas by 6; Screaming Seal and the Flying Fish by 9; Larry's Laundrymen by II; East Coast Montazumic Band by 7; Windex by II; Roland's Headless Thompson Gunners by 2; T.B. Express III by six and the 300 Percent Club by 10. 
Today's featured games include: Chumps Too (Bookstore 9 at 4 p.m.), Tappa Kegga Brus (Book­store 9 at 5:30) and at 6:30, Leo's 
[continued on page 6] 






