

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 87 Tuesday, February 21, 1978 
'Head colds wanted' 
NEWARK, N.J. [A.P.] -Got a cold? Dr. John T. Connell will pay you $30 to SSO· a day to sit in his office and sneeze. 
Connell, a specialist in nose problems and allergies, is one .of dozens of experts throughout the country who test cold remedies for drug companies trying to find out how well their products work. 
"I'm an independent investi­gator," he said. "They come to me. I design an experiment to try to solve their problems and then we talk about a fee." 
· Connell ran an ad, "Head Colds 
Wanted," on Jan. 9 in connection 
with his latest test. Since then, he has heard from more than 600 suffering volunteers, of whom 200 qualified. 

"I don't want people who are only doing it for the money," he said in a telephone interview from his Englewood office. "They have to be between 18 and 60, and not have a history of heart disease, high blood pressure or other comp­lications." 
On a recent wintry day, Connell ushered eight cold victims into his office at 8:20a.m. and fitted their nostrils with plastic cups connected to a machine that measures nasaJ airflow. [continued on ..-ge 2] 
Coal contract controversy continues 
W ASHINGTON[APj-The strik­ing United Mine Workers (UMW) and a major independent coal company reached a tenative con­tract settlement that could set a pattern for an industrywide agree­ment to end the 71 day coal strike. The agreement. reached with P &M Coal Co.. a Gulf Oil Corp. subsidiary. won approval from the union's bargaining council on a 26-13 vote following a five-hour meeting. White House Press Secretary Jody Powell called the vote "an interesting development which all parties ought to seriously assess." There was no immediate re­ contract terms to the industry that would bypass the more contro­versial issues until a permanent settlement could be reached among the parties. This would be regar­ded as an interim solution, the sources said, and in order to quickly get the mines back in pro­duction while negotiators cintinued their talks. The White House strategy ses­sion was the third in as many days and was attended briefly by Presi­dent Carter, Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Energy Secretary James Schlesinger and others. Officials said Carter's options for intervening in the strike include  ted settlement, despite a gloomy weekend· assessment that further talks would by unproductive. Talks between the union and the BCOA, the major industry bargain­ing group representing 130 com• panies producing half the nation's coal, collapsed over the weekend. The failure prompted President Carter to threaten "drastic action" to end the strike, which has caused power cutbacks and job layoffs in several Midwestem and Mid­Atlantic states. In Indiana, officials reported 400 new strike-related job layoffs in addition to 1,100 last week. Some  Indiana utilities already have im­plemented mandatory power cut­backs while law enforcement auth­orities escorted coal convoys to utility plants. The independent coal companies normally follow BCOA settlements. However, the P&M agreement could become a guide for a national agreement or could trigger a breakup of the national bargaining structure if either the union or the BCOA were to declare a negotia­ting impasse. P&M, which is not a BCOA member, operates six mines in western Kentucky and on the  Kansas:Missouri border emplo};ng 800-1,000 miners. The company also operates four mines in the West and in December set the pattern for the UMW's Western contracts. which are separate from the one covering the strike-bound mines in the East and the Midwest. Merlin Breaux, the Gulf Oil vice president who negotiated the tena­tive contract. said it represented a compromise between earlier UMW and BCOA bargaining demands. The UMW bargaining council previously rejected a BCOA offer. objecting, among other things. to [continued on page 3]  
sponse from the Bituminous Coal Operators Association, the major industry bargaining group which has been unable to reach agree­ment with the UMW.  one or a combination of the following : invoking the Taft-Hart­ley Act, sending men back to work, ordering legislation for a temporary federal seizure of the mines or  
Carter  administration  officials  legislation impo:;ing binding arbi­ 
had cautioned earlier in the day that major roadblocks remained and began testing congressional sentiment for legislation to force an end to the strike.  tration to dictate contract terms. The tentative agreement with P&M Coal Co., a Gulf Oil Corp. subsidiary, was taken to the union's 39 member bargaining  
Powell said Carter had not yet decided what course to take to end  council for review. Ifthe contract is approved by the  
the protracted strike, indicating that developments could hinge on the coal industry's reaction to the P&M contract.  UMW leadership and rank and file members employed by P&M, the company could begin producing coal, helping to ease shortages in  
Congressional sources said Lab­or Secretary Ray Marshall was drafting an industry wide contract proposal to present to both sides before Carter asks Congress for special legislation. Marshall conferred with the  some areas. But more importantly, the tenta­tive agreement could bring pres­sure on the Bituminous Coal Oper­ators Associatior. (BCOA)to reach a settlement. "The hope is that one by one  
chairmen of the House and Senate  they might come to an agreement.  
committees  which  would  handle  If enough independent and BCOA  
any legislation to halt the dispute. Congressional sources said pro­posals for government intervention requiring legislation received a cool response from committee mem­ companies reach agreement, the big operators might fall into line," said Rep. Frank Thompson (D.-N.J.)-after meeting with Mar­shall.  
bers.  Thompson,  chairman  of  the  
Senate Majority Leader Robert  House labor subcommittee of the  
Byrd (D-W.Va)., said he favored a  Labor  and  Education  Committee  
negotiated settlement. After the talks on Capitol Hill, Marshall met at the White House with key administration officials where sources said he discussed  said he believes invoking the Taft-Hartley Act is unlikely and that the administration apparently agrees. Thompson also said Marshall  The first student Union turntable clinic was held yesterday afternoon in Lafortune's Rathsllellar, Turntable performance analysis and recommendations were made by technicians from the Sound Room. Over sixty students took advantage of the clinic prompting plans for follow-up clinics for tape decks, receivers and speakers. [photo by Ron Szot]  
the  possibility  of recommending  indicated some hope for a negotia- 


Stalemate reached in cultural films clash 

byK.thy McEntee 

Student Union and the Notre Dame Fdm Society have reached a stalemate in a clash over whether more cultural and artistic films should be shown on campus. 
The Film Society wants to re­verse a trend that has seen the campus cultural film series elimi­nated and the number of cultural films curtailed during the past two semesters, according to Bill Farm­er, a member of the club. 
Prior to this year, the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission sponsored a Cinema Series consist­ing of 14 cultural films each semester. When the series lost money, the number offilms was cut back. The series continued to lose money and Tom Gryp, then newly­appointed SU director, established a separate Movie Commission and scrapped the Cinema series. 

Farmer and other members of the defunct Cinema '77 series organization received an unwritten promise from Student Union that they would have some say in the selection of films. 
The unwritten agreement dissat­isfied the Film Society, which had been formed by Farmer and other students shortly afterwards. The society pointed out that final decis­ions on film selection remained ultimately as a unit. The society also complained that free films were often considered as second­rate, advertising of cultural fea­tures was inadequte, and finally, because of the financial risk, contemporary foreign films were largely excluded. 
At the end of last semester, the society submitted a proposal to the SU Board of directors to establish a committee of Film Society mem­bers that would have freedom in selecting cultural and artistic films to be shown as a series. 
the Student Union Board of Directors rejected the proposal because they felt the "Movie Commission, as it is presently functioning, is doing an excellent job and any changes would be inappropriate at this time." This semester, in an attempt to bring cultural films to the community, the Fdm Society is sponsoring a number of South Bend Library films to be shown at Saint Mary's. Student Union will present three cultural films, among its scheduled film showings. 
"The problem is a philosophtcal clash," Farmer stated. He sees two reasons why Student union should show cultural films. "Cul­tural ftlms expand one's sense of humanity and awareness, and be­cause no one has a chance to see them elsewhere, SU owes it to the University and South Bend community to show such features," he commented. 
Sr. Elaine DesRosiers, director of Educational Media, who ar­ranged for a cultural film festival during last year's summer session, said that"...since South Bend has no cultural arts center, it is the obligation of the University to meet the need for cultural expansion." 
SU Movie Commissioner Bonnie Bona pointed to the scarcity of dates available for movies as the main reason why few cultural films are shown. "We get movtes we think people want to see.·· she said. So we go with the new releases and use the free film slots for cultural films." 

Another consideration is finan­cial risk. Many of the contempo­rary foreign films the Fdm Society wants are fairly expensive and unknown to the Notre Dame com­munity, Bona observed. 
The Fdm Society plans to resub­mit their proposal to the Student Union Board and hoped next year's movie commission will have a knowledge of film. 
Farmer said, "Notre Dame is not living up to the title of a 'good university' which should provide exposure to and develop interest in culture. Something must be done soon before the idea dies altog­gether.'' 


9:30a.m. 
12:15 p.m. 
4p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
" 
4:30p.m. 
7 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 
8 p.m. 6:40-8 a.m. 
_ 

seminar, "coal gasification processes & associated wctstewater requirements" by dr. albert j. forney, 
u.s. dept of energy. sponsored ~Y civil eng. dept, 206 eng. bldg. 
mass. celebrated by fr. griffin every day during lt-nt, Iafortune ballroom 
swimming nd vs. cleveland at home 
lecture "t:1e fate of dissidents m the u.s.s.r." by avital scharansky, wife of anatoly scharansky, prominent soviet dissident, sponsorec by amnesty inti, & institute for international studies, mem. lib. aud. 
seminar, "entomology in china" by. dr. r.l. mptcalf, univ. of illinois, sponsored by bio. dept, 278 galvin aud. 
film series, "bringing up baby", sponsored by nd/smc theatre, carroll hall smc 
eucharist charismatic eucharist, log chapel. open 
lecture, "the scientific revolution will not take plan•: francis bacon & modern science" by thomas king simpson, st. john's college, sante fe, new mexico, sponsored by general program, mem. lib. aud. 
basketball, nd. vs. north carolina state at home 
am this morning, wednesday, mike ridenour and kt>rry rhoa, wsnd 640 on your dial 
Weather  
Cloudy and cold today.  High in the upper teens.  Clear and cold  
tonight.  Low around S.  Partly cloudy and cool tomorrow.  High in  

the mid-20's. 

~\chits • 
I' 
~i;~'
.. ~:

' :~
I 

I ~:
i, I .•
I ~ 

••• ~teA~ 1' 
•• 4.. vu-\r. 
........••"'~ ..·'
~ • ••

Mon -Thun 5 -7 pm ·Burger &Beer 





,, ,,~·. 

i.~ •• 

~c\ •• 
1t....~ ••• .,fie•


\\ ., 

antibiotic therapy symposium 
Some of the country's leading by Dr. Mark Lepper, professor of researchers in antibiotic therapy medicine and former dean of will participate in a one-day sym­Chicago's Rush-Presbyterian-St. posium at Notre Dame this month Luke's Medical Center (RPSLMC). for some 100 physicians and scien­Lepper has published more than tists from the Midwest. 400 papers on antimicrobial ther­
apy and is well regarded as an able"Antibiotic Therapy Symposium clinician and ilustrious researchII," sponsored by Notre Dame's scientist, according to symposiumDepartment of Microbiology, will director and moderator, Dr. Robertstart tomorrow at the Center for Devetski. A South Bend physicianContinuing Education at 9:30 a.m. 

in internal medicine, Devetski isPresentations will cover recent adjunct associate professor ofadvances in the diagnosis and microbiology at Notre Dame andtherapy of infectious diseases. 

associate professor of medicine at The first session will be an Rush Medical College and overview of antimicrobial therapy RPSLMC. 
Common cold cure sought 
[continued from page I) He was: testing a liquid cold medicine with an alcohol and sugar base, one of the 50,000 non-pre­scription cold remedies on which Americans spend an estimated $700 million a year. The subjects were given varying potions: the decongestant part of the medicine, the cough suppres­sant ingredient, an aspirin substi tute, a plain mixture of sugar and alcohol or the medicine itself. Each hour, the test subjects filled out a computer program card telling how many . ti_mes they 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: FrankL. Kebe, 
Jr 
Asst. Night Editor: Margie 
Brassil 
layout Staff: Peggy Mi llt-r 
Editorial layout: Martha Fan­
ning 
Features layout: Martha Fc~n­
ning Sports Layout: Journdl & 
'·I he Lt•gt>nd' · EMT: MikP Hodlt> "lJhco Such" I~odie Day Editor: KJtP f lvnn Copy Reader: l~ob VcirPttoni and lwlper Ad LayoiUt: 13eth C:uttt-r Photogra.pher: 1-<on (Animal­Man) S/.ot 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except durinll exam and vacatioro periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame .and Saint Mary's College, Subscriptionl may be purchased lor $20 per yltar IS 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 4•556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of tne Associated Prnu All repro­duction rlghtl are rel8rvfd. 
sneezed and blew their noses. Every half hour, Connell measured the airflow through their nostrils. 
In between, the volunteers watched television, shot pool or played games. They were served meals and got $30 for staying all day; any one who stayed past 7:30 
p.m. got an extra $20. 
"what cold medicines do is relieve a set of symptoms, temporarily," he said. "Sometimes products don't work. If we feel that we have the right test and still can't show results, we would go back to the drug company and .say, 'This isn't working. If you can't make it work, you'd better take it off the market. 
"When we design the right 

Also on the program is Dr. William M. M. Kirby, whom Devetski calls one of the most renowned research scientists in the area of sensitivity testing of organ­isms to antibiotics. Kirby, profes­sor of medicine at the University of Washington School of Medicine in Seattle and editor of the "Journal of Infectious Diseases," will dis­cuss at 11 a.m. "Relative Efficacies of the Individual Aminoglycosides and Cephalosporins," two of the more commonly used, expensive 
and  recently  evolved  groups  of  
antimicrobial  agents for  treating  
infections.  


experiment, we find that most of the drugs are quite effective at doing something." 
A 1976 study by a Food and Drug Administration j:lanel of 90 active ingredients used in products for coughs, colds and related ailments concluded that none of the medi­cines will prevent, cure or even shorten the course of the common cold, although they do relieve some of the symptoms. 

ERRATUM 
Jackson Browne will appear at the ACC on April 10. not April 1. as reported in yesterday's Observer. 
Today is the first dayofthe rest of your life. 

so it can be the first day



ofsomebody else's, toO. 

; 
Tuesday, February 21, 1978 

the observer 
As leaders shuttle 




Arms':'buying major concern in Mid East 

[AP] -Syrian President Hafez Assad flew to Moscow on an arms-buying trip yesterday -the fourth hardline Arab leader op­posed to Egypt's Middle East peace initiative to visit the Soviet Union within a month. 
As the Soviets laid on a red 
carpet welcome for Assad, a top 
U.S. 
envoy returned to Jerusalem to try to resuscitate the stalled Egyptian-Israeli talks, and the Israeli cabinet began a major reassessment of its attitude towards the peace bid. 

U.S. 
Assistant Secretary of State Alfred Atherton told reporters at the airport that he will try to draw Jordan into the negotiations. 


Atherton's attempts to find an agreed set of principles for future peace talks between Egypt and Israel were suspended three weeks ago when Egyptian President An­war Sadat visited the United States. 
"My return at this time under­lines the importance the United States attaches to continuing in the peace process,'' said Atherton. 
He is to be nominated by President Carter as ambassador at large with special responsibility for Middle East negotiations. 

Atherton is expected to leave for Cairo tomorrow and to include Jordan in his shuttle. · 
Soviet President Leonid I. Brezh­nev recently recovered from flu was, despite 5-degree weather, at Moscow airport for the arrival of Assad. 
Before Assad's departure, the Syrian government newspaper Tishrln said "huge" U.S. arms shipments in Israel compelled other Middle East countries "to find their own sources of arma­ments needed to face Israeli armed aggression." 
Diplomats predict that the So­viets will not send away empty­handed their key Mideast ally, whose existing armed forces are almost exclusively Soviet­equipped. 
Syria and the Soviets, their earlier differences over the Leba­nese civil war reconciled, hold similar positions on the Middle East. Both favor a return to a conference in Geneva chaired joint­ly by the Soviet Union and the United States. 
Assad has been preceded to Moscow by the leaders of Libya, Algeria and South Yemen, three more anti-Sadat militants. 
Israel hopes that Atherton has returned with an Egyptian re­sponse to its proposed set of negotiating principles. 
An agreed declaration would be the first major breakthrough in the peace initiative that began when Sadat made his dramatic visit to Israel last November. The key unresolved issues are the extent of Israeli withdrawal from lands cap­tured in the 196 7 war and a Palestinian homeland. 
Reportedly high on the agenda of the Israeli cabinet meeting, re-
Volunteer 
Services 
seeks tutors 
Volunteer Services needs tutors for elementary and junior high school students. Also, they need workers forthe South Bend Hotline. Anyone interested in these activi­ties should call Julia Jones or Charlotte Peterson at 7308. 

Spotlight program aids Freshmen 
by Kate Niland 
To aid Freshmen in their transi­tion to sophomore year, Freshmen Year of Studies. under the direction of Dean Emil T. Hofman, and the different colleges within the Uni­versity are again sponsoring a Spotlight Program this semester. 
During the week of March 28 to April 1. Freshmen must choose a program of studies for next year. 
Divided into three phases, spot-


Food sales to help ease energy crunch 
by Ginny Nask 
Food sales will be permitted in Saint Mary's residence halls during the energy crisis but students wishing to conduct sales must make arrangements through the Student Activities office. 
·'This is a service to the resi­dence halls because the campus snack bar is temporarily closed at 3 p.m.," explained Mary Laverty, director of Student Activities. How­ever, she said once the energy crisis is ended, the old policy of no dorm food sales will be reinstated. 
Attempts to change the food sales policy have been stymied in the past by a contract with the vending machine company servi-. cing campus, and an under­standing that residence halls will not compete with the snack bar. 
"I personally don't think dorm food sales would affect the snack bar because sales usually consist of donuts and treats that kids, at the last minute, can't resist," said the director. 
According to Laverty, food sales in the residence halls might affect the vending machine company. The Student Activities office plans to compare the receipts during the enrgy cr;.;is with the previous weeks to see if sales do effect the use of vending machines. 
''I'm all for clubs and organiza­tions supporting themselves," said Laverty, explaining that dorm sales provide for group unity and extra revenue. But the revenue Saint Mary's acquires from private ven­ders helps keep tuition costs down and this cannot be overlooked, she said. 
A proposal to permit food sales 
in  residence  halls  is  still  in  the  
discussion  stage b ut Laverty  has  
high  hopes  the  issue  will  be  

prevented to the Student Affairs committee before the end of the semester. 

light is designed to provide fresh­men with specific information on the various college programs and 
career  choices,  according  to  
Hofman.  
In the first· phase,  the  dean  or  

associate dean of a particular college talks on the different majors, requirements and career opportunities within that college, Hofman explained. 
The week following this talk, video-and audio tapes, and printed materials on the particular college and its programs are made avail­able in the Learning Resource Center. The videotapes are shown each day at specific times while the audio tapes and handouts are available at all times during. that week. 
The third phase of the program includes visits to the colleges and department..>. At this time, the ·colleges will provide a consulting service for . freshman seeking advice and information within that college. 
In addition Freshman Year pro­vides an individual interest inven­tory and testing program. The purpose of the test, Hofman said, students explore different career interests in light of their aptitude and achievements and clarify their 
academic and long-range career 
goals. Any freshman interested in 
this program should see his or her 
advisor for more details, Hofman 
noted. 
He suggested that with the 
information the freshmen receive 
from the Spotlight program, they, 
along with their parents, review all 
the options open to them during the 
spring break and that they return 
ready to finalize their college ..Pr~ams. 
The program officially began Feb. 
10, featuring the College of 
Science. The "spotlight" on 
Engineering began last Friday. 
Throughout this week, materials on 
the College of Engineering will be 
available in the Leaming Resource 
Center. 
Next weeks program will focus on 
the College of Arts and Letters 
followed by the College of Business 
Administration. 
During the week of March 13, 
freshmen may visit the various 
colleges and departments for open 
houses, class visits, and personal 
consultations. 
Once freshmen decide on a 
college. their records will be sent to 
that college so that advance regis­
tration for the next semester, (April 
20-27), will be possible. 
••·.••• ·-·.•~'!-~·~ 
cessea atter five hours until next sion recessed, Israeli Prime Minis­Sunday, was the issue of Jewish ter Menahem Begin told reporters: settlements in occupied Arab "First of all we want to hear what lands. This, along with proposed Egypt's reactions were to the 
U.S. warplane sales to Egypt and proposal Israel submitted." Saudi Arabia, has strained U.S.-Is­He refused to discuss the cabinet raeli relations. session and said its final decisions 
When yesterday's cabinet ses-might not be published. 

Coal strike ending? 
[continued from page 1] it is unlikely the UMW would settle participating in wildcat .st~ik~s. tor anything less; have the BCOA The P&M contract offer disciplines reject it, leaving its members to only against those leading such make individual deals, or stand by strikes. and let Carter intervene. 
Breaux said other coal com­panies would have three alterna­Administration officials tives if the union approves the also were understood to welcome P&M contract: decide it was likely the tenative contract and to feel to be the best it could get because · that it placed increased pressure on proposed penalties a ainst miners the BCOA 

The Observer's election 
for editor-in-cttief is Wed., March I. 
Any ND-SMC student 
interested in running 




must submit a resume 


d'iresliin 
re,turnsl 
;eG.. 22~ 7:30p;n,_ Stepan-41-00 
senior bar offers more 
wavs than one 
to save you money••• 

..: ___ ..-··-----­
·--... ~~ ...... _-..-__-_ 
---·----­


,.*The Observer ~n indepenent student newspaper servin1 notre «Yme and 5aint mary's 
The ()bsen,er is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol;cies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Notre Dame Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
~ 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills. Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
1\--------------------------------------------j· The Chief Justice, who has been 
Tuesday, February 21, 1978 ..t4 

opinion 

The Crisis of the Co-ed Dorm 
......iiiiiiiiiiiiiii......iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ thomas werge 
As I read Fr. Toohey's recent h1ment over the absence of co-ed dorms at dulac. the feeling of deja \"11 was inescapable--as if Scholastic had featured Timothy Leary. Twig­g_\. or the imminent Greening of -\merica. I consider Fr. Toohey a good friend for whom 1 have the greatest respect. But as Dr. John­~on (not Masters· partner. but Prof. Jemiclih·'s friend--the intelli­gent one from the eighteenth ~'i!ntun;) once said. or should have: ''Sir. athinking soul may have the intellect of an angel and the heart of a saint--and still hold a klutzy or misguided opinion.·· 
Although we are told that co-ed dorms are not a "panacea." it is difficult to find even a shred of e\·idence in Fr. Toohey's article that thev arc not to be just that. The,· will further understanding bet~·een the sexes; contribute to social growth and development; slow the arms race; hasten maturi­t\'; cure saddle rash. baldness. and the heartbreak of psoraisis. 
The facts on which these conten­tions are based are somewhat thin. Indeed. they depend largely on the quoted assertions of--are you ready? --a ··Jesuit psychiatrist.'' Now. this phrase is unsettling to me. It seems oxvmoronic. like the phrase. "Quaker hit man." or .. Franciscan capitalist." Surely Jesuits know more about the soul than ps~·chiatrists. most of whom: after all. constitute a rather chic. ;~pper-class. secular. ersatz "priesthood." They are well-paid listeners--the landlords to whom clients pay the rent for the castles in the air those clients concoct and sometimes dwell in. True. the Jesuits may be deemphasizing Latin. and Jerry Brown certainly gives one pause--but I'll cast my lot with them. rather than with the shrinks. in every last crisis of the mind and spirit. 

One might agree. of course. with the Jesuit psychiatrist's opinion that young men who read. that is. gawk at. the fantasies of Playboy 
may well think of young woman as "erotic machines." (Actually. I've always. thought that this is how Noelle. my wife. has thought of me for our fifteen married vears. though she immediately disa­bused me--in no uncertain terms-­of the idea). Indeed. Mort Sahl (remember him. my contempor­aries? come on. admit your age) once noted that my generation grew up believing that all young women had staples in their navels. 
But the point is that one ceases to think of young women as erotic machines simply by learning not to think of women as erotic machines. The way to overcome sexual bar­barism is to foster maturity. ten­derness. sympathy. love. respect. compassion. understanding. faith: These are indispensible qualities. For most of us mortals. they are also hard to come by. and often do come only through work. suffering. good family influences. memories. diligence. grace. They cannot be bestowed upon someone by an institution. nor certainly by any particular form of dormitory. Put a boor of either sex in a co-ed dorm for four years. and there is only one result: a four-year-older boor of either sex from a co-ed dorm. 
This is r1ot the place to consider whether co-ed dorms would nur­ture a sense of reflectiveness--an almost-forgotten quality in today's fairly frenzied multi-versities-­more fully than do single-sex dorms; or why it is that my wife and I know some students who have enjoyed life in co-ed dorms. and quite a few more who have disliked it intensely and moved on. But. by way of a fact worthy of attention in the setting of university life in America today .Berkeley now offers. as a "servlce'"(Berkeley's word) to its students. on-campus abortions. Given the callous. even murderous attitudes toward created life which prevail in the contemporary world-­attitudes which stain our times in indelible and grotesque ways--it might be hoped that our preoccupa­tions here could be deeper and more thoughtfully self-conscious than they are at many other colleges ~md universities. We might also hope to direct those concerns--as Fr. Toohey usually does--at real and perennial difficul­ties. On this occasion. however. and very probably forever. the absence of co-ed dorms. and the angst supposedly caused thereby. hardlv seems to be among them. 

~P.O. BOXQ 
Helplessly spelling 
Dear Editol': 
I am not going to mince words. I 1ave a problem. In fact. those small units of letters we piece together to iorm \Ulrds an: i~directly responsi­ble for this plight. Where shall I '>tart? It was on a sunny July ~oming in the early '50s. No. Thal"s too far back. 
h was during one of nature's fun :antrums. Specifically the one of Jan. 25. which left all of us snowbound. There I was, impri­wned within warm walls bv na­ture's duress. I became excited and romantil-all~· elated by the trans­forming effect of the neW-fallen and ~-onstantJy falling snow. My spirit 1-us pmncd by a tranquil hue, which made any further study that evening virtually impossible. That's when it all began. 
Looking back on the event I can clearly envision getting up from my desk and taking those fatal steps. My movements eventually chan­neled me into a room where I was drawn to a group of people huddled over a table. On the table rested my downfall. A game of Scrabble. I picked up the top section of the box to familiarize myself with the rules. A latent weakness awakened. Then, by my own volition I asked to be included in the game. 

Oh, at first it was only an innocent pasttime. At the conclu­sion of the initial game I walked away without the slightest appetite to play again. But on the following evening, and each consecutive evening thereafter, I am helplessly drawn to those lettered tiles. They beckon me. They flirt with my fancy until I yield. 
Before I know it I'm sitting across from adroit players who know their p's and q's. Conse­quently, the day has yet to be won, when the world twirling on its axis (11 points). sees me win a game. 
I am getting rather annoyed. In the time it takes me to determine what move bestows the maximum points, my opponents wash and iron, complete three games of jaialai, and personally deliver that tardy letter to Mom in Orlando, Florida. Capturing that additional point spells the difference between being 246 or 245 points from the lead. That's important. But things cannot continue this way. Last night I reached the ultimate. Unable to ·create any acceptable words, I indulged in "creative spelling." Will SA (Scrabblers Anonymous) be my only panacea? (83 pts. bonus word.) 
LoOking for MOton Bradley 
Elmo issues challenge to Fido 
Dear Editor: 
Elmo, the Watchdog of lOth floor 
Flanner, was outraged at the 
remarks made about him by Fido, 
the Barking Spider. In order to 
maintain the dignity of his owners, 
Elmo has agreed to accept the 
challenge proposed by Fido. How­
ever, we insist that the Mjlrquis of 
Queensbury Boxing Rules be fol­
lowed. 
With Affection, 

The Tarantism Sh 
P.S. Carlton, the watchdog goldfish of Breen-Phillips, will be the main dish at Elmo's victory dinner. 
seriously foIks~!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Good and Bad Lawyers 
JJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~---a rt buchwaI d 
jWashblgtoa-Chief Justice Warren jBurger has enraged lawyers by saying that SO percent of them are not competent· to practice in a courtroom. The American Bar As­sociation, reacting angrily, said only 20 percent of the lawyers now involved in courtroom litigation are unqualified for such service. 
complaining about court loads in the past several years, is trying to figure out ways of resolving the traffic jam. While I am in sympathy with him on the issue, I'm not sure what he wants to do about it If his .'igure is correct, and most of us are willing to take it on face value, the next question is, "Should we prevent from taking trial cases those lawyers who are incompetent and leave the courtrooms open to those who know what they're doing?" I would assume that is what Mr. Burger is driving at. 
If it is, then I'm afraid he's wrong. It isn't the bad lawyers who are screwing up the justice system in this country--it's the good law­yers. The competent trial lawyers know how to postpone a case and string it out twice as long as necessary. They know how to file every conceivable motion, and eventually make every known or unknown appeal. A competent first-class lawyer can tie a case up in knots, not only for the jury but for the judge as well. If you have two competent lawyers on opposite sides, a trial that should take three days could easily last six months, and there isn't a thing anyone can do about it. 
I know many competent lawyers and. while all of them hope justice will prevail, their idea of justice is to win the case no matter how much it costs the client or the state. It is they who are jamming up the courts and making it difficult to hold a fair and speedy trial. 
On the other hand, an incompe­tent lawyer is a friend of the court. In many cases he will present his case so badly that it is no problem for the judge to throw it out on the first day. 


A trial lawyer who doesn't know what he's doing has no idea how to stall. He knows none of the fine points of the law that would force a judge to recess for 48 hours to study them. He is incapable of questioning a witness for any length of time and, because he does not know how to cross-ex­amine a witness, he usually says, "I have no questions, your honor," thus speeding up the wheels of justice. 
A bad lawyer is actually a boon to society. His fees are usually lower because he doesn't know how to sustain a trial to keep the clock running. A judge has no compunc­tion to shut him off when he presents irrevelant evidence. A good lawyer can usually prove irrelevant evidence is relevant, and in doing so make a fool out of the judge. 
Judges love incompetent lawyers because they have no fear of being overruled by a higher court since the case probably won't be ap­pealed. 
But when a competent lawyer is litigating, the judge is doubly careful on every ruling he makes so he won't look like a dummy when the good lawyer goes over his head to appeal. 
So, while Mr. Burger's heart is in the right place, he is making a big mistake by advocating that incompetent trial lawyers be kept out of the courts. 
It is the able lawyers who should not be permitted in the courtroom since they are the ones who are doing all the damage. 
It was William Shakespeare who wrote in "Henry VI": "The first 
thing  we  do,  let's  kill  all  the  
lawyers."  In  the  interest of  
speeding  up  justice  I think  this  

should be amended to apply only to competent trial lawyers. I believe the bad ones shoul be allowed to live and multiply. 
fc)l978 Los Angeles Times Syndicate 


~ 

Tuesday, February 21, 1978 the observer 
An essay 


At the Crossroad 
For the greatest of events words never seem to suffice. Witness what took place last week right after the fight. Nothing more could be said; it would have been much better to say nothing at all. And so, while footage of that now immortal fifteenth round passed by, making refer­ence to events then not too far in the past, the commentators chose to let a song, "He touched me", do what words themselves could no longer do. Streisand sang and I watched. And I saw and felt what can only be described as a mixed and varied collection of engaging emotion. Such is the wonder and magic of a song. Those feelings which we so often take great effort to avoid all come to the surface at once, withoot so much as a hint of our own volition being present. At times such as these the front is dropped and we. at last free to be alone. are confronted by the frailty of the human condition. 
lbe other day a friend and I were talking. Not an unusual occurrence you'll no doubt agree. But this conversation was frightfully disconcerting to me in a different and tragic way. You see. I'm at the crossroad now. And what's more. I know that I am. Life is funny in this respect; everyday finds us at a new crossroad where we either affirm or deny what has gone on before. But this time of life. one's college days. seems to be more ofa problem. College. it seems. is the time when one discovers the crossroad within the crossroad. And here I find myself and this is why my conservation with my friend 
so upset me. In our conversation
.-----­
-
.-·­(lj t:
·­
-
0 
~ 

t 
THIS CIJNCLtJI>E5 THIS 
T£5 T OF TJIE £11£:RG£NC( 
BROADCAST 5YSTEM. 
ZF THIS 1/Al> BEEN AN 
Ac fVAl EHER&ENCI L ,wouL!JN •r wAsr£ 11'1 
~IN<> YOU AikVT 

the 
t 
t t t 
occasion had come up where I would 
normally have edged into discussion ofthe greater events, those concel'mi which are most fundamental and peculiar to oneself. I felt that I wanted to do so and could have very easily. That is, if I had so chosen. But I did not so choose and this brings me to my present worries. First, I'm concerned about what I'd consider to be an adverse change in my character. In the past, I've rarely hesitated to delve into deeper concerns. But even more important is the fact that now, I must either find a way to make a conscious stand for the 'real' me or else 'die'. Without a conscious decision for myself. I fear that the implicit choice, made by not deciding, will lead down that path which is the denial of what I'm really an about. 
While home one day over Christmas break. I picked up an issue of Psychology Today. I think it was January's issue, though I'm not sure. Anyway, I was quite excited to find an interview with our own John Dunne. I've never had him for class, never met him, and yet with that article I had the sense that we were each struggling with what I call the greater events. In order to get in touch with the more fundamental side of oneself, the constant side, the side that for Dunne makes life a spiritual journey. Dunne said something about taking the path of one's deepest desire. The prospect of being able to take that path--and follow it truly-is so intriguing. And yet that very path is so hard to find. At times in the past I have found it and have tried to follow where it leads. Admittedly, I 
rS. Leuin 

have not followed as much or as well as I 
/ could have. But at least I had done it. Now however, I'm worried that I'm losing the courage, the will to stay on that path of deepest desire. To put it more precisely, I'm worried that I've lost the will to keep searching for that path. And more impor­tantly, I fear that I've lost the patience which allows one to wait for the path to make itself known. 
In that conversation the other night I consciously decided not to travel the less travelled way. I had had a momentary I glimpse down that path ofdeepest desire. I knew what it meant and was aware of the chance that lay before me. And then, just · as quickly, I decided not to take that path. I decided to leave it alone, untrodden. And with that decision I denied what I had--however imperfectly--been able and willing to do before. I still haven't forgiven 
·myself. 
So here I am, with Time, as always, still passing by. The fight is now a week in the past. And I am still at the crossroad. Maybe my concern about the situation will help to draw me back to that path of my deepest desire. But I don't really know. I c:an't, for this is the crossroad within the c:rossroad....But I do know that I will have to live with what I do eventualy decide, be it an implicit decision or otherwise. And I do know that behind even the most trivial of events there is something which makes that event a great one. That is. if we would only look for that something and try to supply that music which each of us has deep inside. 


TopiO 
Here are the top 10 single and albums as compiled by Billboard magazine: 
1. Stayia' ADve-Bee Gees RSO 
2. love Is Thicker 1'hlm Water-ftlldy 4Gibb RSO . 3. Just 'The Way You Are -Billy Joel ~olumbis 
: 4. Sometbaes Wbea We Touch-Dan Hill 20th Century 
5. Emotion -Samantha Sang Private Stock 
6.~.~.~. Yowsah, Yowsah -Chic Atlantic 
7. 
We Are 1be Champions -Queen Elektra 

8. 
Night Fevel' -Bee Gees RSO 

9. 
lay Down SaDy-Eric Clapton RSO 

10. 
Bow Deep Is Y0111' love --Bee Gees RSO 


Top 10 Albv.ms 
1. 
"Saturday Night Fevel'" SoUDdtnck -RSO 

2. 
BiDJ Joel -The Stranger Columbia 

3. 
Que a-News of the World Elek:tra 

4. 
Ean.I, Wind It Fire-All ' N ' All Columbia 

5. 
Rod Stewut -Foot Loose & Fancy Free W amer Bros. 

6. 
Styx -The Grand Dlusion A&M 

7. 
Jackson Browne-Running on Empty Asylum 


9. Eric (hptoa-Slowhand RSO 
9. 
Randy Newman-Little Criminals Warner Bros. 

10. 
Steely Dan -Aja ABC$ 


Obseruer Features 
An Endorsement of Selfishness 
A recent best-seDer, ~ Oat r. Namber ODe, offers tips and suggests ways we can get for ourselves human power that is necessary for a sense of personal well-being. 
At first glance this seems a set-up for criticism from a Christian. It appears extremely self-serving and egocentric -­directly opposed to the gospel message, with its injunctions against selfishness. I wonder, however, if this need be the case. 
We Christians have been accused for a long time of advocating a kind of unholy docility, of accepting reality passively. Camus wrote often of his dislike for Christans who simply climbed onto crosses in order to be seen from a long distance. We have witnessed in this century that unbelievable loss of power to resist evil forces which led to the rise of Hitler and the death of six million of our Jewish brothers and sisters. If only thousands more had been as sure of their ''personal power" as Bonhoeffer! If only thousands had witnessed against t)le paralysis and powerlessness of society at that timeI 
That's frequently where the pryblem comes in: It's the lllek of power, not too much of it. It is the powerlessness of apathy that is the root of all evil. Sin itself is the flight from action. The opposite of love, Rollo May writes, is not hatred; it is apathy! And we all know the old addage: "All it takes for great evil to be done is for a lot of good people to do nothing." 
It may look like acting for number one is a betrayal of acting for others, but I would like to suggest just the opposite. In a way, selfishness is a way to unselfishness. Most of our sinfulness is the result of passivity, 
the  result  of . our  not  ·having  enough  
self-power  to  overcome  our  do-nothing  
stance.  

We may feel we are humble and good Otristians as we stand in the middle of the world's evil, doing nothing. It may seem pious not to want power, to be docile, passive. It may appear realistic to adopt tbe myth of impotence: "I can't do anything." In so doing, however, we deny responsibility, and, frequently, our free­dom of choice -that which makes us aDique among creatures. 
If the power of evil can get us to stop uercising our freedom (our freedom to choose and to act), then we are cap6.ve, 
and already experiencing a ldnd of hell. 
This is precisely the insight contained in that marvelous passage about the Grand lnquisitor in Dostoevsky's classic, 'Die Brothers Karamozov. Jesus, the prisoner, 
is being grilled the Cardinal, the ' Grand Inquisitor of the Inquisition, who accuses Jesus of making a tremendous mistake in refusing to turn stones into bread in the desert, which .vouid i.ave .:aused the 
crowds to run after him: 
Choosing bread, you would have satisfied the universal and everlasting craving ofhumanity--to find someone to worship. But what happened? Instead of taking man's freedom away from him, you made it greater than ever. You wondered what that freedom was worth if obedience is bought with bread. You desired man's free love, that he should follow you freely. Jn place of the rigid ancient law, man must hereafter with free heart decide for himself what is good and what is evil, having only your image before him as his guide. 
And so the great temptation for Jesus was that he should take away our freedom and become our Superstar, dazzling us with miracles that would effectively elimin· ate the burden that we should have \0 gamble and trust that he is the one to be our Lord. Jesus was tempted to remove the necessity for faith! 
I've been wondering if we are entirely happy with His decision. At times, I suspect we resent the fact that He refused to free us from the burden of freedom. We don't always like the challenge of having to ·choose, oftaking responsibility for a stand. of deciding in our own conscience the course of action. We may join with those thousands of Catholics who prefer to abdicate their freedom, the shared respon· sibility decreed to them by Vatican II. Like the followers of Archbishop Lefebvre, they wish to be controlled and totally subservi­ent to a powerful priestly cult. 
How well the Grand Inquisitor knows us. _In his final, chilling speech to Jesus, the prisoner, he says: 
We have corrected your work, and ' have founded it upon miracle, mystery 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
{ 
Fr. Bill Toohey :md authority. And men rejoiced that they were again led like sheep. and that the terrible gift that had brought them such suffering was. at last. lifted from their hearts. Who can rule men if not he who holds their conscience and their bread in his hands. We shall persuade them they will only become free when they renounce their freedom to us and submit to us. 

We are all susceptbile to that temptation. Consequently. we do well to "look out for number one.·· For. to do that. can mean the realization that we need the power of another. Looking out for number one can mean looking out for weakness. insufficiency. inadequacy and immaturity. It can prompt us to turn· to the power of God. residing in the man Jesus. 
In the end. that type of looking out for number one (looking to the power of God in the face of evil and our own death-dealing apathy) is also to look out for all others. Thus what seems to be selfish is actually powerfully unselfish; for. once His power is wit_hin us and His spirit leading us. we do find ourselves looking out beyond oursel­ves. to those in a wounded world who call to us. 

Tuesday, February 21, 1978
the observer 

'Itinerant scholar' Sewell teaches Blake course 
by Anne Bacble Sewell said she considers herself a poet first, but that she also has
Staff Reporler interests in science, math, history 

Elizabeth Sewell, an "itinerant and music. Describing her lectures scholar" who has vowed not to stay and writings, she noted, "I wander at any university longer than seven .around, dancing on other people's weeks, is currently teaching a territories." six-week English course at Notre Sewell's last position was at the Dame on William Blake's prophetic University of North Carolina at writings. Greensboro, where she taught 
Originally from England, Sewell religibus studies for three years-­received her degrees in Modern "much too long," she said. Languages from Cambridge Uni­She decided last spring to make a versity. She came to American on a career out of being, as she called it, fellowship, which led to a teachtng a "free-lance professor." Contrary position in the English department to her initial fears of not having at Vassar. steady work, she said she is already 
''It just happened to be the booked into the 1980's. English department," Sewell re­Sewell, who did a week of marked, who has also taught lectures at Saint Mary's several philosophy--which she called a years ago, said she finds the mistake--and religious studies. atmosphere on both campuses 
For approximately twenty years "very friendly" and suited to her Sewell shuttled back and forth style of teaching. "I don't like between America, where she could unresponsive or hostile students," teach, and England, where she she remarked. The students here, could write. "1 teach what I she added, are "simply delightful" write." she explained. "When one to teach. is teaching full-time. one simply The course Sewell is teaching at 
I hasn't theltime to write as well. So I Notre Dame is "On Reading
I •

\ would tea'ch a year. then wnte a Blake's li'rophetics," dealing with \ year. the prophetic writings of the 18th­
1Music chairman tp present concert on Schumann 
William Cerny. professor and chairman of the department of music. will present an "All Schumann" piano recital at 8:15 
p.m. tomorrow in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The program is open to the public without charge. 
Cerny. a former faculty member at the Eastman School of Music, has served as. chairman of the music department since coming to Notre Dame in 1972. The Phi Beta 
Pianist to perfa111 at CeniLiy Center 
The Steven De Groote concer' 
originally scheduled for Jan. 28 Wlil 
be held tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the 
Century Center. Tickets for the 
concert are available at the Century 
Center Box Office. 
As Grand Prize Winner of the 1977 Van Cliburn International Piano Competition. De Groote has appeared with the Baltimore Sym­phony. the Chicago Symphony. the Cleveland Orchestra. the Detroit Symphony. the Los Angeles Phil­harmonic. the Minnesota Orchestra the National Symphony. and the Philadelphia Orchestra. 
For more information and ticket reservations call the Century Center Box Office at 284-9111. 

Kappa graduate of Yale University 
has extensive concert and recor­
ding experience in a variety of 
piano literature. 
The recital of works by the 19th century German composer will include collections of short char­acter pieces. "Waldscenen" and · "Carnaval." The pieces in "Carnaval" present musical im­pressions of an individual. another 1 composer. a character from the : Commedia del' arte. or one of Schumann's own fanciful arche-· types. whom he invented to be spokesman in his progressive music journal. , 
The program will conclude with a large scale, three-movement work. "Fantasia in C. Op 17." The next concert in the series will be February 27 when the Notre Dame Orchestra presents an ''All Mozart' recital. 
/VIcMullin talks on 
'Scientific metiJcxl' 
1 

Fr. Ernan McMullin. professor of , philosophy. will give a talk entitled, "Is There A Scientific Method?", 
tomorrow at 3:25 p.m. An offering in the special seminar series spon­sored by the Department ofChemi­cal Engineering, the session will be held in room 265, Chemical Engineering Building. 
Direct any questions to Rob Civitello 
272-4577 

century poet William Blake. The course me(~ts four days a week for extended periods to fulfill the requiremerllts for a three credit course in just six weeks. 
"I really didn't know 'what to expect," one of her students said, "But I've learned a lot about almost everything, not just Blake. 
"methodology of the imagination." 
"She's a very humanistic per­son. I've never run across anyone quite like her," he stated. Vasta said he is pleased with the com­ments he's heard from students, and could see "no reason why we couldn't do this again in the future." 
Paraguay urged to stop torture 
Amnesty International (AI), the world-wide human rights organi­zation that was awarded the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize will circulate petitions calling on the Paraguayan governmelllt to end the use of torture as a means of interrogation and intimidation. 
The Notre Dame-South Bend Chapter of AI will make petitions available for signature during the evening meal in both ND dining halls tomorrow and Thursday. 
Petitions will also be available in the IaFortune Lounge between 11 
a.m. and 1 p.m. on both days. 
AI has also initiated a letter-writ­ing campaiign on behalf of those Paraguayans whose basic human rights have been violated. Letters will be sent to President General Alfredo Stroessner and to other high-ranking government officials in Paraguay and in the United States. 
The local chapter urges anyone interested in participating in the letter-writing campaign to contact Mike Pierret (8703) or Gilburt Loescher (8749). Loescher, assist­ant dean for Arts and Letters, is the co-founder of the Notre Dame­South Bend Chapter. He stressed that although basic human rights 
During the course of this past semester. I have attempted to furnish you with a bit of informa­tion concerning the selection of your engagement diamond. Ap­parently. judging by your response at least some of vou have found it of some value (evcrv writer likes to think that :someone out there is ing). of 
Since this is my last column the semester (and remembering that this is actually a thinly-disgu­· advertisement posing as a column). I thought you might appreciate a brief "check-list". recapping the verbiage. 
Whether you shop for your gagement ring at Diamond Im­port Company or at another jeweler . you might wish to remember: 
(I). Don't f'all Prey for "Sales" 
"Student Discounts". Diamond prices are pretty much standard worldwide. and most "sales" or "'student discount" merchandise contains stones which have been 
marked up in order to be discount­ed. or stones of questionable quality. ~ 
(2). Watch for Classification. If vour jeweler uses terms such as ·..perfect". "blue-white" or "1/2 carat" ((instead of .SO carat), you are dealing with an amateur. Also watch out for the "tw" (total weight) trap; find out what every dia11wnd in your ensemble weighs on an individual basis, not what all of them weigh in agregate. 
(3). Investigate Alternatives to Diamonds in Your Ring. While diamonds have become the stand­ard "symbol of eternity" in enga­gement rings. remember that other stones can be substituted for a dazzeling effect. Rubies, emeralds 
sapphires.. garnets (in many colors), topaz and other precious and semi-precious stones should be available for your inspection. 
(4). Don't Settle for "Assembly Une" Diamonds. "Name Brand" diamonds are no guarantee of quality. Furthermore. !n <?rde~ to 
their mass dtstnbutton, 
often limited in terms of Professor Sewell is fascinating." 
Edward Vasta, chairman of the English Department, invited Sew­ell here. "We've been trying to bring here here as a visiting professor for some years now,'' he said. He added that Sewell is internationally renowned for her work in what he termed the 

and legal guarantees are provtded He added that AI is politically 
by Paraguayan law, the autocratic and ideologically unaffiliated with 
rule of Stroessner has effectively any government. AI was founded 
denied all constitutional safeguards in 1962 by Peter Benensen, a 
to persons suspected of political London attorney. 
offenses. "Because of its neutrality and its 
"With this campaign," Loescher record of an accurate reporter of 
stated, "Amnesty International human rights violations," Loescher 
hopes to bring sufficient global said, ''Amnesty International has 
pressure to bear upon the Para­achieved consultative status with 
guayan government so that Para­the United Nations and has helped 
guayans may be guaranteed due secure the release of more than 
process under their own constitu­8,500 politically oppressed pri­
tion." soners throughout the world." 
Kreskin returns to INO 
Kreskin, the mentalist who has appeared as a guest artist on more than 200 television talk shows, will make his annual visit to Notre Dame for a performance at 7:30 
p.m. tomorrow in Stepan Center. The program is sponsored by Student Union Academic and Social Commissions and tickets, priced at $1, will be available at the door. 
The entertamer claims he has the power to introduce an idea into someone's mind. In 
.::election. Remember that you are 
tmying a unique creation of nature, 
tot an alarm ciock; customize your 
ing to your satisfaction. 
(5). Demand Proof of Quality Before Your Purchase. A jeweler is more a catagorical. expert in the ise he selfs than a car 
ler is an automotive engineer. Demand proof. in precise scientific language. that. your stone is exactly what it is represented to be. If 1Jossible, check your purchase voursclf on gemological laboratory instuments. or at least ask for a legally binding appraisal. 
(b). AlwaJS Buy from a Profes­sional. In a legal sense, you have more assurance with the purchase of the previously mentioned alarm clock than you do with a diamond ring (diamonds and other fine gemstones don't come with UL approvals or Good Housekeeping Seals). Therefore. determining the integrity of the man who would sell 
a diamond is of paramont 
nnt•t<>tO<'P. 
Check his credentials. 
the Better Business Bureau, talk to someone who has purchased !Tom him before, but be certain that he is a pro. To sum it all up. the latin credo 
"caveat emptor" (buyer beware) holds especially true in the selec­tion of your diamond engagement ring. If I might take license with that motto, I would hope that vou take advantage of the learning ~vhich is available • and "let the buyer be aware". I would be more than happy to recommend some excellent volumes on diamonds, fine gemstones and the science of gemology, should you ever care to study the subject. 
Since this is after all an ad for my business. I certainly would appre­

your patronage at Diamond 
Company. We are located 
lobby of the St. Joseph Bank 
Building in downtown South Bend, and our telephone number is 287-1427. Please feel free to contact me with any questions you might have. 
Thank you for your readership, and I'll be speaking with you again next semester. 
is an advertisement.) 

demonstrated thought 1, transfer­renee skills, mass hypnotism varia­tions. and the traditional search of the auditorium for the check paying for the evening's entertainment. The check is hidden by students during a period when the enter­tainer is absent from the stage. 
In addition to talk show appear­ances, Kreskin has performed on more than 1.000 American campuses and is the star of a syndicated television show seen in this country and abroad. 
Streeton presents lectures 
Dr. Paul Streeten of England, special advisor to the policy plan­ning and program review depart­ment of the World Bank in Washington, D.C., will present lectures tomorrow and Friday. 
"Basic Needs: Premises and Promises" is the title of a talk at 8 
p.m. tomorrow in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium and "Policies Toward Transnationals" will be the subject at 3:30p.m. Friday in Room 242 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. Both talks are open to the public without charge. 
Streeten has worked extensively in economic development programs and has written several articles on Third World policies. He has served as deputy director general of economic planning at the Ministry of Overseas Development in London as well as director of the Institute of Development Studies at Sussex University and the director of the Institute of Commonwealth Studies in London. 
Presently a Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford, he was the reci­pient of a Rockefeller Fellowship in the U.S. in 1950, a Research Fellowship at Johns Hopkins in 1955. and a Center for Advanced Studies Fellowship at Wesleyan University in 1962. He has worked in the Indian Statistical Institute in Delhi and as a visiting professor at the University of Buenos Aires. 
IVIason to appear in concert with 
special gues1s 

Dave Mason with special guests Bob Welch and Clover will appear in concert on Wednesday, March 15, at 7:30p.m. in the Notre Dame ACC. 
Reserved seats are $7 and $6 and are on sale now at Student Ticket Office, ACC Box Office, First Bank (main branch only), St. Joe Bank (all branches), Robertson's South Bend and Concord Mall, Boogie Records, Just for the Record, Record Joint fn Niles, River City Records, Suspended Cord in Elk­hart and the Elkhart Truth. 
........:.... ......... .,
~ ~ 




.~~-----, 
I I 
~' 
Tuesday, February 21,.1978 
7

.the observer 
Egypt pulls diplomatic mission out of Cyprus 
CAIRO, Egypt [API· Egypt de­cided yesterday to pull its diplo­matic mission out of Cyprus and ask Cypriot diplomats to leave Egypt. Hours later, Egyptian commandos whose raid on a terror­ist held jetliner in Cyprus turned into a battle with Cypriot troops returned to Cairo and were wel­comed as heroes. 
Cyprus refused to turn the two terrorists over to Egypt and, earlier yesterday demanded the recall of Cairo's military attache. 
Information Minister Abdel Moneim Sawy said Egypt would review all aspects of Egyptian-Cyp­riot relations because of the "un­friendly stand" by the Cyprus government, but added that Cairo's action "is neither a freeze nor a break in relations.'' 
The Middle East News Agency said Egypt is recalling members of its technical and trade councils in Cyprus. 

classified ads 
NOTICES 
Sophomore gym shorts are in. ALL SIZES. 
Anyone who took Dynamic Reading or Evelyn Wood info wanted satisfied or not call Brian 7-8 p.m. 3013. 
One roommate to share Campus View apartment. Please call 277-3509. 
Last chance to get your Class of '80 shorts. Soph. office. 1-4 p.m. 
Looking for a band for your party or formal? Attalla can give you what you need. For the best rock and boogie around, call Fred at 277-3448. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL 8086 
Accurate. fast typing. MRS. DONOHO 232-0746 Hours 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Dissertations. manuscripts paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters 287­4971. 
•Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
(;ONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on n•Jnd name hard and soft lens supplies. U~rl fl'r free illustrated catalog. Contact Le1:s ,;Jpplies. Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona 8501' 
NO and SMC Artists: We·are establishing individual studios and a gallery on our upper level. Work, exhibit and sell in pleasant atmosphere. We want a good mix of painting, photography, sculpture, silk screen. picture framing, handcrafts. etc. Apply for space at Aquinas Book Shop, 435 S. Michigan Street. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7 
p.m. Anyone wishing to make appoint­ment for confession may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
I will assume no responsibility for typos in this edition of The Observer because the heat is not working in this office, and I 
therefore must  type  with frostbitten  
fingers.  G  
FOR RENT  

Available for Spt. Five bedroom house, also three bedroom apartment. Call Nancy Humbarger 234-9364. 
For rent next school year. Completely furnished 4-bedroom house a couple blocks from campus. No security pro­blems. safe neighborhood Easy walk to campus. Call 277-3604. 
Two furnished houses for rent next school year -9 month lease. 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom -near NO off-street parking. Call 234-2626. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: One sterling silver neckalce, be­tween Gym 4, ACC and Alumni. Medal is a cross surrounded by a triancular shelter. Save me from suicide I Brian 3774-7958. 

A pilot on the Cyprus Airways D -8 told a reporter an Egyptian military attache apparently gave the signal to the commandos to launch an airport raid -in defiance of Cypriot authorities -in an attempt to seize the two terrorists and rescue their 11 hostages. 
In the ensuing gunbattle Sunday night, Cypriot forces stopped the commando assault, killing 15 Egyp­tians. -The terrorists, who set off two days of bloodshed Saturday by assassinating prominent Egyptian editor Youssef elSebaei in Nicosia, surrendered to the plane's crew during the fighting. 
Cypriot President Sypros Kyp­rianou demanded the recall of Egyptian attache Col. Suleiman Hadad. In Cairo, Egyptian War Minister Mohammed Abdul Ghany Gamasy denied Hadad was invol­ved. The Cypriot pilot did not elaborate on the basis for his 
Lost: A pocket camera somewhere be­tween North Dining Hall and Administra­tion Building on Saturday of snowstorm. Please call Ruth 1317. 
Lost: Green and gold ski cap. Cafe­teria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
Lost: One red and green scarf, probably in South Dining Hall. Call 6326. 
Lost: San Francisco license plate-key chain with name "Maureen." Please call 6856. 
Lost: One blue ski glove (left hand), between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thursday, Feb.2, approx. 4:45 p.m. If found please contact George at 1248. 
Lost: Gold cross necklace on SMC campus. Reward. Cathy 5454. 
Lost: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat, nite Special X-mas present. Reward Call Kevin. 1655. 
----~------------­
Lost: A pair of large brown-framed eyeglasses in a brown case. Reward. Call Rocky 1773. 
Found: Silver wire-framed glasses out­side ACC before Maryland game. Call 1475. . 
Lost: Ladies gold watch at Mardi Gras Sat. Linda 7812. 
Found: Men's gloves in Room 343 Nieuwland. Call 272-2548 to claim. 
WANTED 

NO-Mississippi basketball program 
needed. Call collect (616) 471-1377. 
Models needed for photographer devel­oping portfolio. No experience necessary. Call for details. (616) 471-1377. 
Desperately need ride(s) w Miami­Lauderdale area for spring break -will share$ and driving. Call Mickey 3364 or Matt 3349. 
Desperately need Marquette tix. Koplin 287-7051. 
Need 2tix to NC St. game. Call 277-5137. 
Need 4 tix for Marquette game. Call 277-5137. 
Man & Dad need 2 Ga tix to Marquette. Please call Rich 1172. 
Ride to Fort Lauderdale for 2 girls for spring break. Will share driving & expenses. Call Jean or Mo 4-1-4001. 
Need 6 GA and 5 student tickets for the Marquette game. Will pay big bucks! Call Kevin 287-5737. 
2 tickets for Marquette. Call Rich 1173. 
Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
Need 2 Marquette Ga tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
2Marquette tix. Will pay reasonable sum of$. Call1612. 
I am in dire need of 2 Marquette b-ball tix. Will pay your price. Call 1612. 
NEED UP TO 8 GA TIX FOR MAR­QUETTE GAME. CALL 1n2. 
Need 2or 4 Marquette tix. 8504 or 8502. 
allegation. 
The Palestine Liberation Organi­zation claimed in Lebanon that the two terrorists acted under orders from Iraq. 
Sebaei was a chief spokesman for President Anwar Sadat. The Iraqi regime is an implacable foe Sadat's peace dialogue with Israel. 
The Greek Cypriot government issued a statement on behalf of the terrorists, who identified them­selves as Palestinians, saying they belonged to no organization. 
Kyprian~u met for three and a 
need posters in a hurry? 
. .
•nsly·pr•nts~ 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
100 -11 x 17 posters 
only $10.00 203 n. main Downtown So Bend 289-6977 
Desperately need 4 GA Marquette tickets Call1423. 
Musthave 1 Ga Marquette tic. Will pay $$$. Call Bill 1978. 
Need 4 tickets to Marquette game. Call Kim 272-4869. 
Need ride to NYC area. Feb. 23. Marice 1312. 
One student or Ga Marquette ticket. Call Bill7781. 
Get rich quick! Just call 272-5843 and sell me your Marquette ticket. Ask for Brian. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer-year round Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information. Write BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Need riders to Oklahoma City or Tulsa for break. Leave 17th. Brian 1641. 
Need ride to Indianapolis or Blooming­ton Feb. 24. Call 1361. 
Need 4 GA Marquette tickets. Call Dale 
8766.  
Help! I need Anne 4983.  Marquette  tickets!  Call  
FOR SALE  

Panasonic AM-FM st_ereo with turntable and cassette player-recorder. Plus 2 speakers. Ex~ellent condition. 1.5 years old. $150. 8173. 
Realistic TR-801, S-track play-record tape deck. Vu meters, many extras. Like new, make offer. Call Steve 8209. 
Marantz 2216 3 months old. Best offer. Call Mike 1580. 
Frozen yogurt machine. Great for money minded student. Refreshing for the warm days ahead. Call Erma at Taco Rico. 291-3142. 
BIC 981 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now available. Call 8982. 
Why pay more? Flanner Records has all $7.98 list LP's for only $5.29. All $6.98 list LP's for only $4.5!l (plus tax) F!anner Records 322 Flanner phone 2741. 
PERSONALS 
Brian Gary. Do you really expect me to believe your wrestling techniques w1ll help me stave of1 other NO men? Never! I I think I'll stick with tickling my oppressor the results are much more interesting. Guess we 'II just have to see what the tea leaves say. How's Wednesday night? Ori is Thursday better? Let me know. Your "s1ster." A 
Need a date? Young Adonis is available weekends. weeknights for funerals. for­mals & bar m1tzvahs. Schoolwork is no hassle -I don't do it. AKA approved ­have papers & shots. Special weekend rates available. Call 2197 & ask for the Iron Curtin. 
half hours yesterday with Butros B. Ghali, Egypt's minister of state for foreign affairs, to work out finan­cial details of the return of 57 commandos, including 16 wounded 
Overeaters Anonymous meeting is now on campus! Call 289-6021 for time & place. 
To the 3 "B"s in Morrissey: You tripled our fun! Thanks for an enjoyable evening Easy A., Kay B., & Sniffles 
Happy birthday to the very popular J.P. (or is it P.J.?) McGuire. With love from your admirers, Joan & Margie 
My fingers are freexing!! 
Mike & Barb: Happy birthday Barb and thanks for everything. Pat and Laura & Co. 
STEVE FITZMORRIS, Congratulations on making that big step toward your MD.! We're proud of you! Adam, Mare, Pat, Ed & the Gang 
Joey A., Thank you so much for an absolutely wonderful evening last Friday at the McCandless (LeMans? Law?) Formal. Next time I'll serve martinis only -with an olive, of course. Much love, Annie G. 
Haircuts cheap. Styles, trims. SMC 4530 Betsy· 
To Disco Don, Many thanks for a really crazy time...and the wine. You really helped out in a pine~ The Lady in red 
To the Sulta·n of Sears: Happy Belated Birthday. Love, Jan 
Need 4 GA tix for Marquette SMC 4530 
Betsy  
Easy job. S-M-W, T-Th-F.  or  Call from  233-7949 8 a.m.  anytime -2 p.m.  on on  


Classified ad rates 
RATES. Classified ads are billed according to the chart below. 
NUMBER OF DAYS 
1 2 3 4 5 
Ill 

c 1-10 1.00 1.30 1.55 1.75 2.00 
0:: 

11-15 1.35 •.85 2.25 2.50 2.85
0 

1b-20 1.65 2.30 2.55 2.95 3.20 LL 21-25 2.05 2.90 3.50 4.25 4.90 
~ 
0 

26-30 245 3.50 4.25 5.15 5.90 
0:: 

w 31-35 1.80 400 4.75 5.85 8.20 al 
36-40 3.15 4.55 5.55 7.10 8.65 
~ 

41-45 340 5.05 6.20 7.45 9.40
:J 

z 46-50 3.90 5.55 6.90 8.20 10.20 
PAYMENT. All dassifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
DEADLINE. All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m., two days prior to the issue in which the ad is to run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a_m. to 5:00p.m. 
j 
·1 

he would fly home last night with the survivors and the bodies of the 15 dead commandos killed in the · clash at Larnaca Airport, 30 miles southeast of here. Two other 
Dearest J, Happy Birthday!! Remember this was typed on Monday, so I'm not really late. 
G 

Last chance to get your class of '80 shorts. Soph. Office 1-4 pm 
Sophomore gym shorts are in. ALL SIZES. 
Jay P. McGuire: Happy birthday to one of the best. We still love you! Barb, Anile. Jenni ar.d Annie 
Gad, Tidmarsh, are you old!! Now I don't feel so bad. At least I have the body of a 21-year-old (shut up Smith!). 
Happy birthday John Patrick "Bonsai" McGuire! Love, love, love. love, love, love, Sequoia P.S. -6 loves-enough? 
To a fishy roomie: Try PB&J's next Friday. love, Charlie Tuna 
Hey Ken, There's another flick Thursday. Would you like to accompany us?? G& Monica 
Jim Friedian, You're so vain...you had on eye in the mirror as you wall:hed yourself cavort. Carly Simon. 
Martin, I won't. MT 
Richard E. T. Happy 21!! You finally made it old man! -The Older Woman 
Needed: Dancing girls to jump from Bob Q's birthday cake. No expereience nec­essary . Call1437 to apply. 
Mrs. Friday, Remember when I told you that "you have it all." Well as of last week, it oow changes to "you had it all." Think about it! The Head 

tha obaeryar Tuescay, February 21, 1978 
Irish face North · Carolina State tonight in searchiof playoff berth~ 
by 11m Bomret Sporlll \Yrlter 
You can talk all you want about number-one ranted Marquette's appearance at the Athletic and Convocation Center this Sunday, but if the Irish don't post a victory over North Carolina State tonight the magic of the game with the Warriors might be lost. Tonight's 
• 8 p.m. contest with the Wolfpact. is the pivotal game of the season to this point. 
"We are beginning the NCAA 
tournament tonight," said Irish 
coach Digger Phelps. "We inten­
tionally scheduled tough games at 
the end of the season this year to 
get us ready for the tournament. In 
past years we might have suffered 
!Jecause we did not finish the 
season with power games. This 
year we will be used to playing 
power games when the first round 
of the tournament begins. 
"I can't stress the importance of 
tonight's game. We will need a 
complete effort from the team and 
especially the student body. We 
need them involved from the 
opening whistle." 
The homecourt advantage is a much discussed topic, especially at Notre Dame. Although many opposing coached try to discount the affect of the student body on the outcome of a Notre Dame game, there appears to be some support for the theories concerning the positive affect the students have on Notre Dame's players. This season the Irish are 12-1 at home but only S-4 on the road. Over the lifetime of the class of '78 Notre Dame is 54-6 (.900) in the 

Wrestlers endure 'long season' look forward to NCAA regionals 
It has been a long, bard season 
for the Notre Dame wrestling team. 
The effects of the 1977-1978 cam­
paign took its toll on coach Ray 
Sepeta's wrestlers Feb. 11 when 
they lost to John Carroll 19-12. 
After winnin~ the National Catholic 
Championship at the beginning of 
February, a letdown on the part of 
the Irish was possible, and that loss 
to JCU turned some heads in that 
direction. 
The Irish settled any doubts this 
past weekend, however as to how 
they intend to end the season. 
Notre Dame took first place in the 
Wheaton Tournament in illinois for 
its second toumarnent champion­
ship ofthe year. The Blue and 'Gold 
totaled 82 points to edge out seCond 
place Drake University, which had 
81 and one quarter points. 
Defending champion Marquette 
finished third with 53 and ooe 
quarter. 
"I was very pleased with the 
team's performance at Wheaton. It 
is becoming hard to keep going at a 
good pace, but the team showed it 
could do it with this champion­
ship," noted coach Sepeta. 
''The really impressive aspect of this win was the wide scope of competition we were up against. Twenty-four schools competed in the tournament so the competition was even tougher than the National Catholic tourney. The team really hustled, though, and finishing first out of 24 teams is very impres­sive." 
Pat McKillen (150), Bob Golic (HWT), Rob dreger (177), and Disabato (126) all took individual championships for the Irish. Unseeded Chris Favo (142) surprised many with his second place finish while Mike Padden also ended in second place. Golic earned the tournament's outstand­ing wrestler award in addition to winning the trophy for most pins. 
DiSabato gave Notre Dame its first individual championship with his 3-1 decision over Doug ~ bert of CorneD. The l~pound sophomore earned his second tounwnent title of tbe year. IWr ACC and 27-n (.551) away from' percent and has connected on 46.5 the South Bend arena. Those percent of his shots for the year. statistics are not coincidental. The other outstanding member , Austin Carr once said, "the Notre of the class of '81 is Clyde "the Dame student body gave us a Glyde" Austin. Austin carries only 15-point lead before we start any 154 pounds on his 6-3 frame but he game in the ACC." uses his slight build to slither 

The Irish will need all the points through any kind of defense. He is. they can get against Norman the quarterback of the Wolfpack Sloan's\17-6 Wolfpack. They have offense, but unlike most point­had an outstanding season despite guards he will takeoff on a wild their youth. They are the youngest sojourn to the hoop whenever he team in the country with nine gets an opening. In build and freshman and a pair of sophomores quickness he will remind many on the roster. Coach Sloan has Irish fans of West Virginia's Lowes done an excellent job after Kenny Moors, another diminutive guard, Carr, Brian Walter and AI Green who scored 40 points against the left school last year. Carr departed Irish at the ACC earlier this year. ' school for the pros after scoring South Bend's Glenn Sudhop will; over 21 points a game last year start at center. He led Adams High while the latter two transfered tc School to the State finals in 1973. other institutions. The 7-2 IJivotman has had a 
With Carr's departure the Wolf· rollercoaster season, but has been. pack have become a very balancecl playing a fine backboard game team. Like Notre Dame, North lately. Last week he gathered 16 Carolina State has four players rebounds in. only 27 minutes averaging in double figures with no against Wake Forest. He is on the one scoring over 16 points per team's leading rebounder with a game. In one seven game stretch 5.9 average. six different players led the Wolf-Kendal .Pinder, a 6-8 junior pack in scoring. college transfer will start alongside 1 
Charles "Hawkete" Whitney Whitney in the frontcourt. He has has led the squad in scoring all played very well since the North-1 year. He has registered 15.3 points South tournaDJent when he led the l per outing in his sophomore season Wolfpack in scoring both nights. · after scoring 14.6 points a game The fifth starter is Tony Warren,' when he was co-rookie of the year probably tht~ most consistent player in the ACC during his freshman N.C. State has had all year. He campaign. The muscular 6-5 carries a 12.7 average, collects five forward, who was a freshman at rebounds per game and shoots a DeMatha High School in Washing-team-leading .541 from the floor. ton D.C. when Adrian Dantley was Craig Davis, a 5-8 point-guard, a senior star of Morgan Wooten's Kenny Matthews, the finest pure team, has been struggling with his shooter on the team, and Art field goal accuracy. Over the last Jones, a s.tarter earlier in the six games he is shooting close to 41 season, will also see much action 
first came at the Rochester Insti­
tute invitational way back in Decem 
her. 
"Dave wrestled smart and ag­
gressively, keeping in control all 
the way. He did not stall after 
gaining a lead and overall did a 
very gQOd job," noted Sepeta. 
Then came Pat McKillen, Notre 
Dame's all-time winningest wrest­
ler. the 150-pound senior co-cap­
tain decisioned Sam Lamb of 
Evansville S-3 forthe crown. 
McKillen finished second in the 
tournament last year but changed. 
that with a consistent performance 
Saturday. 
"Pat stayed well in control of all 
his matches and did a nice job in 
winning. He won one match 14-5 
and controlled all of his oppon­
ents," commented the Irish coach. 
Rob Dreger followed for the Irish 
with the championship in the 
177-pound class. The senior from 
skotie, m., defeated Leo Ellis of 
Drake 7-3 to capture the title. Ellis 
had beaten Dreger twice before, 
and for the ND senior, it was 
psychological victory as well. 
"Rob hustled all the way in this 
tournament and it paid off. Ellis is 
an archrival of sorts and Rob' win 
was very nice," noted Sepeta. 
Despite these three wins, the whole outcome of the tournament came down to the heavyweight match. Notre Dame went into that final bout two and three-quarters points behind Drake and victory or defeat rested on Bob Golic'Sishoul­ders. The final was a classic match, as Golic's opponent was, appropriately enough, Jerry An­derson of Drake. With his 9-1 win, Golic proved he is a man of his word, Coach Sepeta explained. 
"Just before the match I was giving Bob some last-minute in­structions. His opponent weighed 320 pounds, so I told Bob to be careful making takedown attempts. He said, 'Don't worry, I'D go under and lift him right off the ground, and then take him down.' True tc his word, Bob did just that.." 
Golic made his way to the final doing what he nsually does: pinning his opponents. In the four matches before the final, Bob. won by fall in all ofthem, tbe ~in 1:27. Golic is 10-0 this year after rejoining the team less than a month ago. He currently posts a career record of 42-3-1. All three losses came in the NCAA tourna ment. 
"In the Wheaton Tournament, I was actually a little sloppy. A few times I was off-balance and Ander­son almost fell on top of me. 1be ' match went alright, and the points 
just mounted up," noted Golic. 
With Golic's 9-1 win came three valuable team points for Notre Dame, and the tournament champ­ionship. It .was the first time the Irish won the Wheaton tourney, and gives them renewed life for the remainder of the season. 
"After last week's loss to John Carroll, I was wondering ifwe were going to let down at all. Perform­ances like that of Chris Favo at Wheaton were especially encourag­ing. Chris wasn't even seeded and yet made it to the finals," noted Sepeta. 
We will be away at Purdue this Saturday and if we are ever going to beat them, this is the year. They are a Big Ten school, but we bave got our strongest lineup, so I bope to win. We have only beaten them once and tluat was in 1969. As a coach, I would like my first win against themt Saturday." 
After the Purdue match comes the Midwest Regional TOUl1WDCDt at the Air F01rce Academy Mar. 3-4. The NCAA finals will be held the weekend of March 16 at Maryland. Sepeta hope!; for five ND wrestlers tc qualify. 
With the ilmjury to Pat Landfried in January, waiting for Bob Golic to return from the football season, and the problems of John Tortes (he is having trouble with his knee and is qoestiionable for Saturday), the Irish wrestlers have overcome adversity in coming up with their best season ever. A National Catholic championship and the Wheaton title are now tucked under their belts, and they bope to add a few NCAA All-Americas to their credit in mid-March. H they cannot, you ,can bet it will not be due to Iact of desire. 
·-. --·-----­
·~r~ 

!/the Irish are to grab an NCAA playoff berth, Duck Williams must be at the "top" of his gal!'e· 
for Norm Sloan's 12th N.C. State But N.C. State is a hustling, 
team. youthful te~. They defeated 
From Notre Dame's point of view Clemson on pure hustle last Satur­
this is the perfect time to play the day. State connected on only 37 
Wolfpack. After tonight's game percent of its field goal attempts 
they will have to travel back to 1 but still won by seven points. The 
Raleigh to prepare for a Thursday ~ Irish will have to be equally ' 
evening game with North Carolina. ' aggressive. They have lbso been 
ACC schools have had problems' inconsistent shooters in recent 
with non-conference schools during · games. DePaul's tough defense 
the middle of the season. Two limited the Irish to 42 percent 
weeks ago Furman defeated North accuracy on Feb. 12, while 
Carolina and N.C. State on con­South Carolina's zone yielded only 
secutive nights. Last week Wake 45 percent accuracy. In between 
Forest was soundly beaten by those two games the Irish hit on 61 
Rhode Island and North Carolina percent of their shots against 
dropped a contest at Providence. Fordham, the second highest 
Even little Mercer College toot the figure this season. 
Tar Heels to the limit in a 73-70 loss It figures to be a close contest, 
at Chapel Hill earlier in the month. one the'intangibles could decide. 
Paul Stevenson=======================================================================================================: 
The Irish Eye 
==================================================================:===~==========;;===============================-==============THIS IS IT 
s Vunng The course ot the past wee~. one of the most tatted abOut 
subjects at du Lac has been the future of the Notre Dame basketball team. 
Many are even concerned whether or not the Irish will receive an NCAA 
bid. 

Because the Fighting Irish cagers have dropped two of their last three 
encounters. Notre Dame's appearance in the NCAA's looks to be in 
jeopardy. At least this is a point that is being considered by numerous 
individuals on campus. · 
Well, let's take a complete look at the situation. The Notre l\1me 
basketball team is currently 17-S. Although there may be a "•c .:11 
independents that boast a better won-loss record at the pr ·s •: ti'Tie, 
there is not one independent that plays a more rigorous sc. l··~ 1'! b • ..,. 
Notre Dame. 

"We play as tough a schedule as anybody in the country," Head Coach 
Digger Phelps commented. "We could play an easier schedule and have a 
better record. but our schedule, especially going into the end of the 
season, helps prepare us for the NCAA's." 
Yes, this week is no exception for the Notre Dame cagers as the Irish 
entertain the Wolfpack of North Carolina State tonight and the Marquette 
Warriors on Sunday. 

This will be the first meeting between the Wolfpack and the Irish. The 
battle between these two basketball powers will truly be a classic from the 
opening tip-off to the final buzzer. 

The Irish are within two week of that goal that seemed so far away in 
November. The NCAA bids are announced on March 5. Before the Irish 
start their second season, they need to build some confidence and 
momentum. 

"This is going to be a student game," Phelps stressed. "It's time to 
juice up. We need that support because the crowd is a part of us." 
Yes, at Notre Dame the students help the Irish do the impossible. 
Remember those victories over UCLA. Does 71-70, 84-78 and 95-85 bring 
back memorable moments. How can one forget 93-82, when top-ranked 
San Francisco was handed their only regular season defeat last year. 
Those are the types of crowds that have to be on hand tonight and again 
on Sunday. Against the Bruins this year, the students may have shown 
some support, but all the vocal expression was sporatic. The support has 
to be a continuous activity. 

This activity begins "30 minutes before the game" in addition the 
entire 40 minutes of action. 

"The support has to be at a peat," Phelps remarked. "Just a great 
amount ofintensity behind our team while totally ignoring the opponent." 
Yes, when the opponent is introduced, the most effective response is 
dead silence. Bt when Jack Lloyd says "and now the starting lineups for 
your Fighting Irish," let the Wolfpack know who the sixth man in that 
game is. NC State is accustomed to playing before partisan crowds in 
every conference game. Let's show the Wolfpack what it's lite to play in 
our ACC. 

"We're a good basketball team," Phelps emphasized. "We need the 
people to back us and instill some confidence." · 
The intangibles could truly make the difference tonight. But tonight is 
only a start. DePaul and South Carolina are over. Hopefully, the playen, 
and coaches have realized where they failed in those contests and can use 
that knowledge to help bring them to the top. 
Let's take them in order. First tackle the Wolfpact and then Warriors. 
From ther the Irish have to overcome Dayton and Loyola and them on tc 
the NCAA's. 
•. 







