
-. -, :.: -.;;;.·: --­
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 78 
HPC discusses Bengals, constitution, sculptures 
possible causes for a lack ofby Michael Lewis enthusiasm in the snow sculptures.
Senior Staff Reporter 

'There's a limited number of people in the hall you can dependThe proposed Student Govern­on, and they work _ on Mardi ment Constitution, lack of enthusi­Gras," St. Ed's President Mike asm in the snow sculpture contest Roohan said. He added, "The fluand the upcoming Bengal Bouts didn't help at all." Holy Cross were among the topics discussed at President Ted Howard noted, "It's
last night's Hall President's 

been too cold, and a sculture takes Council meeting in Carroll Hall. 
a lot of time."
HPC Chairman J. P. Russell Haller said that he had contacted again urged the hall presidents t.o 

several of the HPC members andquickly bring the proposed consti­had "extreme support up until lasttution to vote in their hall councils. 
week. Nobody from the hallsRussell noted that, under the mentioned Mardi Gras as being aproposal, many officers take office problem.''
on March 1. He pointed out that Adopting a by
motion Lyonsquick passage of the proposal will President Jayne Rizzo, the HPCprovide a smooth transition for next recommended a short extension soyear's officers. 

the halls would have more timeAt this time seven halls: Breen­before final judging. Later thatPhillips, Dillon, Grace, Howard, evening, Haller said that theKeenan, Sorin and Stanford have
Pete the Dragon comes to life in front of Keenan Hall. The creators of last year's King Kong judging will ''definitely'' take place 
approved the proposed Constitu­

hope to repeat their good showing in this years snow sculpture contest. [photo by Kevin Walsh] this afternoon. "We're not going
tion. Two-thirds, or fifteen of the to give out prizes if we think theyhalls, must approve the document don't deserve them," he added.


for ratification. 

He said this was necessary to
Cavanaugh agrees to comply 
Tom Haller, Social Commission prevent a hall from "throwinghall liaison, spoke to the HPC about together a pile of snow and winning snow sculptures, or the lack of a keg of beer" because of the few

with judicial board guidelines 
them. "What we want to know is, entries.

what's wrong?" he said. 

Senior Danny Romano told the
"Frankly, we should've been against the "good order" of the Haller announced that the

by Mark Rust HPC that the Bengal Bouts are 
aware of the guidelines because dorm and the rights of its residents judging will take place this after­

Staff Reporter scheduled to begin March 5. He
they were reported in The Obser­-have simply been handled by the noon at 4:30, pointing out that urged the halls to contribute to thever," Miceli commented, "and I rectors of Cavanaugh and Flanner. judging had been delayed three
Cavanaugh Hall, one of two halls Bengal mission in Bangladesh by
did get a letter about it a long time After warning the HPC that times because of weat)ler or flu.

singled out recently by the student purchasing advertisements in the 
ago. It has since been misplaced, "people on campus are looking at "We've also decided to reserve the

government for failing to conform Bengal Bout program. 
so we have been operating under this hall very closely," Bender right not to give out any prizes," he 

to the judicial guidelines estab­Romano said the Bouts had
the old system. We should be observed that they should be said, noting that there are five

lished last semester by the Board of raised over $500,000 for the mis­
complying with the new guide­setting up a Judicial Board right awards and only four sculptures

Trustees, indicated to Student sion in over 47 years of existence. 
lines." now. He also asked them to "let had been started as of last night. 

Body President Dave Bender last Also at the meeting Russell and
In the past, hall offenses -theft, everyone know that they now have However, he indicated that good 

night that they would comply with Keenan President Mark Huard
damage of property, alcohol limit­a J-Board and it is functioning." efforts will not go unnoticed. "We

the rules. spoke concerning a meeting with
ing, use of marijuana or fireworks, As far as Bender is concerned, want a decent effort, that's all

The assurance. came in a meeting Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president 
and infringements on or offenses · [continued on page 5] we're asking," he added. 

of their Hall President's Council, for Student Affairs, and securitv
Several hall presidents pointedattended by their rector Father to the flu and Mardi Gras as [continued on page 8]

Matthew Miceli. Flanner Hall, the other recalci­
Hough predicts increase

trant residence dorm, will be contacted ''within the week ­tomorrow probably -to find out 
in Mardi Gras earnings

what is going on," said Bender after the meeting. brought in the most money, ac-
The appearance by Bender at the cording to Tim Malloy, the event's. HPC meeting last night marked his by Bob Varettonl business manager. This booth, the latest move in applying pressure to Senior Staff Reporter Tibetan monastery, has brought in the two halls to follow guidelines $1,370, $24 more than the Lewis-
for standardizing hall Judicial Mardi Gras should make almost Stanford 20th Century Fox booth in Boards. Hall rectors Fr. John three thousand dollars more this second place. Mulcahey of Flanner and Miceli of year than last year, according to Saturday night was the biggest Cavanaugh were notified earlier in Mike Hough, Mardi Gras chair-night for Mardi Gras when they the week that they were violating man. made $6,945, a figure Hough called guidelines established by the board After four nights, the money "unbelieveable." Last year on the of Trustees on October 31. collected from booths was $4,720 opening Saturday night Mardi Gras 
The difference between the way ahead of last year's pace. AI-made $4,507. the J-Boards are supposed to though Hough said that raffle sales Mike Bilski, entertainment operate under the guidelines and are trailing last year's pace, he chairman, announced the enter­the way they are now functioning in predicted a profit of $28,000 for tainment schedule for the remain­the two halls, according to Bender, Expo '78. der of Expo '78. Tonight, the rock is credibility. "They are still "Mostly it's been all the new band Attalla will appear at 9:30 operating on the old system which games that have attracted more p.m. Tomorrow, early in the lacked credibility because it wasn't people," Hough said. "The cami-evening, will be the Sophomore -~ standardized across campus. val-type games have been popu-Oass Talent Show followed at 9:30 There was no division between a lar.'' p.m. by cartoonist Jim Berry. 
~­

hall offense and a universityone in "We've had bigger crowds this Friday will feature ·a WSND DuLac," he said. year than ever. It maybe hasn't game show followed by Stormy 
"With the new system every-looked as crowded, but there are Weather, acappella street singers. l' thing is standard. Hall rule three fewer booths than last year so Saturday night will feature another offenders are given their option of there is more space for everyone," WSND game show, the Jimmy 
,.

appearing before the J-Board or he added. Johnson Blues Band, and, possi­the rector and there is always the Hough said that dealers have bly, a performance by a barbershop possibility of appeal for everyone been on the job more this year than quartet. involved.'' Bender reported. in the past. There are 2,800 Hough noted that the judging of 
Bender stated, "If any rector in dealers this year, 600 more than the booths on "design, workman­any hall does not give a student the last year. Hough noted that this is ship, and originality" began last option of going before the J-Board because dealer schools were con-night by 15 Notre Dame and St. (the major difference between the ducted in the dorms this year. Mary's art and architecture profes­new and old systems) they should "Another reason for the good sors. A money prize will be immediately go to the Student business is the looks of the place," awarded to the best booth on 
Government. All cases of rule Hough said. "There isn't one bad Saturday night. The th sia f tudettt l'k L---. _.... abo hu violations should be reported to the booth out there:" Admission to Mardi Gras is Sl en u sm 0 5 s, 1 e t._ ptdun:u ve, J-Board even if the rector will After four Dlghts, the Breen-not S2 as reported in last week'~ helped ~rdi Cras to jump ahead of last year's earnings. [Photo 
~-haodle it." , l .. ,.... pbj]Jips/St. Edward's. l7ootb. -~-. -~~·-.·.•!·~· ·.•.,'(..t:.Ti·~~e.~ ··~'>••···~·l~;;~~~ ~~·.1-l:.> ••.••..•... , ,.,;.,,,•.t.~..·; i,~<·:•.~.a.t .... :, I . , , r·.~· · '· -,.,._~. 
--~--------------~------' 
2 the observer: · Wednesday, ·Febriiarv-8;-1978 
,_News Briefs----~ 
~================================= National 


Judgeships created 
WASIDNGTON -The House agreed yesterday created 145 new federal judgeships, shunting aside the objections of some members who complained that taxpayers can't affort it. "We simply cannot continue to add judges as our response to all the problems of the courts," said Rep. Jack Brooks, D-Texas, who voted with the losing side as the measure passed 319 to 79. 
"In too many instances, judges just need to be a little more efficient," said Brooks. 
~~~·================~Lornl 


Service suspended 
MICIDGAN CITY, Ind.· Blaming equipment failures brought about by recent bad weather, South Shore Railroad officials said service to South Bend was temporarily and indefinitely suspended yesterday. Albert Dudley, president of the commuter and freight line, said service to Michigan City and Gary was also being reduced. "I can't say how long it will take to get the cars into service," he said. Severe winter weather forced officials to pull 15 of 34 cars off the tracks, Dudley said. Beginning today, Dudley said no trains would go to South Bend, four trains would operate as far east as Michigan City and a fifth run would serve Gary and points west. 

Weather 
Partly sunny and cold today with highs in the upper teens to low 20s. Partly cloudy and continued cold tonight. Low five to ten. Partly sunny and cold tomorrow with highs in the upper teens to low 20s. 
,_On Campus Today_~ 
3:25pm 
3:30pm 
4:30pm 
S pm 
5:30pm 6-12 pm 
7:30pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm seminar, "the issue of abortion", by rev. james t. burtchall, sponsored by the theo. dept., 269 chem engr bldg 
lecture, "the interdisciplinary prism", by rev. deward synan, sponsored by the medieval institute, 715 mem. lib. 
lecture, "literary biography: why (negative and positive uses)", by nd prof. emeritus carvel collins, sponsored by the eng. depc, galvin aud. 
wednesday night pledge forms passed in the dining halls 
wrestling, nd vs western michigan, home 
expo-nd, mardi-gras '78, live entertainment, games, and refreshments, stepan center 
meeting, celtic society, 102 o'shag, all welcome 
meeting, society for creative anachchronism, rath­skeller [Ia fortune]. all welcome 
american scene, "the role of women in northeast india," by joseph kennedy, carroll hall, smc 
lecture, "on education for justice", by david burrell c.s.c., sponsored by theo dept., galvin aud. 
bcac, speaker john sengstacke, washington hall, all welcome 
recital, daniel presley tenor, lib. aud. 
B-1 decision not final 




Brown predicts another bomber 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Defense Secretary Harold Brown said yes· terday the United States may add a new manned bomber to its nuclear arsenal even though President Jimmy Carter has decided against producing the B-1 bomber. 
Carter's announced cancellation of the $25 billion B-1 program last June "was not a final decision against the manned bomber," Brown said. 
But the secretary said it will be 
into  the  next  decade  before  it  
becomes  necessary  to  develop  a  
different  version  of  the  nuclear  
bomber.  
Brown  testified  before  the  

Senate Armed Services Committee in defense of the administration's proposed $126 billion defense bud­get for fiscal year 1979. 
Congressional critics of the B-1 decision have tried to keep the plans alive by urging funding for two more copies before production lines are shut down. . 
The Senate rejected the funding proposal last week but the House has narrowlv voted. to include $462 

Choir to sing Valentines 
The St. Mary's-Notre Dame Collegiate Choir will be selling Singing Valentines this week to raise money for a summer tour. The valentines will be sold at LeMans Hall lobby at SMC on Weds, Thurs, Fri, and Mor.day afternoons from 12-6. They also will be sold at the ND dining halls on Thurs. Fri, and Monday during dinner. 
A list of selected valentine songs will be available to choose from. The price of the call will be $1.00, and $2.00 extra for long distance calls. Call 4-1-4521 for more information. 
With the money raised, the group will travel throughout the midwest for two weeks in May, with stops at many major cities including St. Louis, the Twin Cities, Cincinnati, and Louisville. 

Raquetball Club to organize 
The Notre Dame Raquetball Club will hold· an organizational meeting open to all students tomorrow at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. This is a mandatory meeting for all those wishing to participate this semester. I{ unable to attend, contact John Mlynski at 6775. 
The Observer Is publlslltd Mon. dey tllrougll Frkley except during exem end vecetlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is publlslltd by tile students of Notre Deme end S.lnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purctresed for no per yeer (S1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 46556. Second den postqe peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 46556. . The Observer 11 e member of tile Auocl•ttct Prell. All repro­dudlon rtgllta ere reaerved. 

million in a 'supplimental appropri· ations bill now before a congres· sional conference committee. 
The administration has opposed those efforts, and Brown said his belief that a bomber might be needed later did not signal any softening of his support for the administration decision. 
Instead, Brown said the current fleet of B-52 bombers will be kept in use into the late 1980's, while work continues on the cruise missile, the unmanned nuclear alternative to the BLl. 
By the time the B-52s are no longer usable, Brown said, it may be necessary for the United States to have a new low-flying manned bomber which can penetrate Soviet radar defenses in concert with cruise missiles. One possibility is an improved version of the FB-111 fighter bomber, a plane already in use. 
The defense secretary said "in my judgment, it is not urgent' to make a decision now on a new bomber less expensive than the 


i' ,''·4 



PaalliiZI 
*liquor *beer 
•
·* w1ne 



233-2267 

*The Observer 


*pizza *sandwiches *Carry out 
410 N. Hill 
Minutes from campus



------•mupon•------­
good for 1 c •1 off SOt off B I 
c 
~ or 
8 any large pizza any Italian "8 ::::ssandwich 
I 
I 
all $6.98 list LP's ONLY $4.49 
all $7.98 list LP's ONLY $4.99 ( plus sales tax) 

R..PNBI
ENDS SUNDAY, 

322 Flanner19 FEB. 
h. 2741 



-------Program ---:--course -aimed-n---dance-.steps---reu -teo-:-can--"-NeatW300repre-sentat:tves-ftom--· Fislfer, ·preSidentorBan-c-orpora-------6oo~ridge--opened -the--exchange --­

Register today, tomorrow, for Free University courses 
by Kevin Richardson 
Registration for this year's Free University will be today and tomor­row from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the La Fortune Ballroom. Courses covering 40 different areas of interest will be offered to students, faculty, staff and local Michiana residents beginning next week. Exact starting times will be availa­ble at registration. 
When registering, be sure to have the number(s) of the course(s) 
that you are interested in.  Com­ 
plete  !siting  along  with  course  
numbers are as follows:  

Some of the topics include: 
101 The art of Mixology and Bar­tending -four classes im;luding one memorable "lab" -$2.00 Student Fee 
102 Frisbee ·· a course in the basic "art" of Frisbee. Covers five basic throws and some of the "classy" catches will be intro­duced. 
104 The Transcendental Meditation 
providing ~n understanding and . become Fred Astatre or Gtng~r experience of -creative intelli---Rogers. gence and developing the physi­ology and psychology of every 138Beermaking · the techniques student for full expression of used to make a good batch of creative intelligence in practical beer will be taught, including all life. phases of the bottling and 
fermentation process. 108 The Beatles: A Four Part Study­
An insightful look into the 146 The Notre Dame Myth -The overall impact of the famous . Course is designed to bring four. Course is divided into four together a large group of people 
parts: the early years, for ·discussion on Notre Dame Bcatlemania, The Studio Years, life. The diversity of the group and the Solo Years with the will allow for knock-down drag records from each period. out discussions of the many [continued on p. 9] 

NOTRE 
d

DAME ~i"
A.C. C. Come on along and get that HAPPY FEELIN'
WED. fEB. 15--a-rERFORIAICEt_-~ 
thru Wm.-THURS.-FRI. 8 P.M.SUN FEB 19 SAl-NOON; 4 P.M.; 8p
• • SUN.-2 P.M. alii &P.M. 
PRICES: nckets now -sale: 
13 50 • 15 DO • '6 DO NOTRE DAME A. c. c. 
· · · BOX OFFICEHalf price MON.-SAT. 9 to s for ND/SMC students for Wed., Thurs. 8:00pmSat. 12:00noon Sun. 6:00pm shows 
SendtheFID 
Cif.mreBl!!ldle 
Pamper all the angels in 
your life this Valentine's Week. With fresh, fra­
grant flowers, trimmed 
a Valentine heart and 
wispy angels. So eaiy to 
send, too. Just call or 
visit your nearby FTD 
Florist. And be a hero. ftM~~ 
Price: 
$15.00 
$17.50 
$20.00 
Exclusive FI'D decorator container 
Available only 
through FI'D Florists De Cloedts Floral Place 
417w. 7th Street, Mishawaka 259-6336 
~ ' ·, ,. ; 
·121 Magic -the Slight of Hand -A course on how to do close-up ' tricks. Will include card tricks and flourishes, coin, sponge balls, and cigarette tricks. 
122Beginning Backgammon -to acquaint the beginner with the game of backgammon, as well as to further instruct those already playing. Stress will be on basic strategy and the course will conclude with discussion of finesse moves and the gambling aspects of the game. 
131Pocket Billiards • basic shot techniques, various types of pool games ranging from eight­ball to 14.1 continuous accompanied with explanation of rules for all games. Open to beginners and moderately good players. 
134Everything You Wanted To Know About Dancing But Were Afraid to Try -All the left-footed people on campus will have the chance to learn all the new 

••••••••••••••••••••••• sentatives. St. Mary's presented
• • the program in cooperation with 
•  
• • •  
e e  
• •  
•• e ••  Special 10% Discount On All Merchandise To Notre Dame  
e  & Saint Mary's Students.  

·, . ( ­
••••••,•••••••••••••••••• 

-~-----------------------------------------...... 
Wednesday, February 8, 1978 
the observer 
3 


Moniqu~ Spann, co-chairperson of Bl~ck Cultural Arts Festival examines piece of African tribal Art dur~ng the NO Art Gallery's_ spec1al presentation. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
Business community visits-St. Mary's, holds forum 
Members of the panel included  The first forty-five minutes of the  
by MoUy WouHe  Thomas  Busch,-vice; president  of  discussion focused  on  the role of  
Staff Reporter  the  Bendix  Corporation;  John  women in the industrial world.  

22 colleges ud several businesses . tion; Robert Navarre,-president-of 
participated yesterday itl St. ­Mary's "Business Comes to the Campus" program. 
After registration and a formal welcome by William Schmuhl, Jr., chairman of the SMC Department of Business Administration and Economics, participants gathered in Carroll Hall in Madeleva for a one-and-a-half hour panel discus­sion on current business topics. 
TO: STUDENTS AND STAFF OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S 
FROM: INDIANA CAMPUS MINISTRY VOCATIONAL TEAM (4 sisters, 1 brother, 4 priests) 

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 8, 1978 
7:30 p.m....Regina Lounge following the 7 p.m. Ash Wednesday {SMC) open discussion 
9:30 p.m....Bulla Shed and Campus Ministry West (Badinl open· discussion 
THURSDAY, FEB. 9, 1978 
2-4 p.m.... lndivfdual meetings: Stapleton Lounge and LaFortune 
7:30 p.m....Stapleton Lounge--open discussion 
9:30 p.m....-Bulla Shed and Campus Ministry West · (Badin) open discussion 
FRIDAY, FEB. 10, 1978 
10-noon..... lndividual meetings: Stapleton Lounge and LaFortune 
Simpson In-dustries, and Bert Phil­
lips, president of Clark Equipment Company. Dr. William Hickey, SMC vice-president and dean of faculty, served as moderator. 
The two SMC student panelists were Veo Navarre, junior, and Virginia Goodridge, senior. 
With the use of-roving micro­phones, members of the audience questioned the panel members. 
• 
• • • 
e 
e 
• 
• 
• 
e 
e 
e
• 
e 

___by !lslt:tng _what Qppo~uniti_es. a.r.¢ · ~vaitable _fo_r women ui corpora.---~_ ttons. Phtlhps remark~d "I .see a, great need for wome~ tn busmess~ and the properly-tramed students are going to get the jobs.'' . Fisher commented that running certain machines "isn't exactly what you would call a woman's ~ob," _al_ld that "we are interested tn hmng women, generally ~peaking,. in ~arketing research or m marketmg Jobs." 
Navarre told the crowd that the second-highest executive in his company is a woman, and Busch admitted his corporation "hasn't been too successful in attracting women into industrial jobs." 
A businessman questioned Veo Navarre about the feasibility 
-trairiii:tg-womerc-em:proyees wno ----­
later _quit to marry and raise _ · families. Navarre replied "That's -i always going to happen, but a lot of , women combine the _two now." Coodridge added, "No one ever 1 ­
-mentitms -how-many men -quit ·or· '--­
switch jobs after one or two years.'' 
Several students protested when Fisher declared that working mothers who "shipped their' children off to the care of school teachers" were responsible for their children turning into "blathering idiots." Hickey quickly shifted the conversation to another topic. 
_The businessmen-panelists used the remaining time advising students on how to succeed in the industrial world. "You have to earn your Stripe-get the confidence ofthe people who work with you," Navvarre commented. 
Fisher agreed, adding, "Get rid: of the attitude that you have to be certain about anything. Anything certain isn't exciting. Why not tackle the things that are uncer­tain?'' 
Kathy Shea, a SMC junior, asked how it1dustries could develop a better relationship with their customers. "We're doing it right here today," answerec;l Fisher. 
An informal reception -in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans, was held afterwards for all the repre­
the National Association of Manu­
facturers, the Indiana Manufac­
turers Association, Inc., and the 
South Bend-Mishawaka Area ,..Ch_am_b_e_r_o_f_C_o_m_m_e_r_ce...;,_I_n_c.__ 
STUDYIN 

GUADALAJARA. MEXICO 
Tilt GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL 1 fully lccrtdlted UIIVERSITY OF ARIZONA progre111. oilers July 3­Autuat 11.1ntllrDPOiotY.Irt. ~lingual education. hlfklon, hlatery. piiiUcal 
:~j:t.:=~~~'::.t~f:,:'O::':~; 
lllllrdiRIII'IIOIIIwltiiMexlcanra•lly:
1285. Fer •I'DCiwre: &UADALAJARA 
::J:!~ t='Art~i 
.__B5_7,;_;_Z1.___180Z1..____.,_~..;_7.;...;;.~.;..._·~..;...;;.....J 
, . 
i 
~ 
J t 
1 
~-.· 
. •' 


l 
Wednesday, February 8, 1978

4 the observer 
--:~~"':.:<t':i""' 

Snow piles up across U.S. 
LaGuardia, Kennedy and Newark got three-quarters of an inch of rain[AP] • Snow, winds and flood­

waters brought a second day of airports would reopen Wednesday in four hours. 
misery to millions in the blizzard 
Newark at 10 a.m. and LaGuardia From Pennsylvania through New plagued Northeast yesterday, while 
and Kennedy at noon. Hampshire, businesses, many of residents of some Midwestern 
Philadelphia International Air-which closed early Monday as the areas suffered bitter cold and new 
port officially reopened at 6 p.m. snow mounted, kept their doors storms. Tuesday, 23 hours after it was shut shut yesterday. Banks in some rouble spots ranged from Massa­\ 
down by 14.1 inches of snow, the areas were closed. so were schools chusetts where a power blackout heaviest snowfall in the city in 17 and public highways. I years. One after another, governors and
and some looting in Boston com­
pounded the blizzard problems to 
Roads remained impassable in mayors declared states of emergen-Montana, which was struck by 
many areas. cy, banning non-essential traffic. snow on Monday and faced contin­"We're the only thing that's National Guardsmen were called ued blizzard warnings yesterday. 
open," said Fred Wilder, a Civil out to help clear snow and rescue Even Anchorage, Alaska, had to Defense dispatcher in the Pocono stranded motorists. Several close its schools, for the first time 
Mountains town of Stroudsburg, officials asked President Carter to since 1964, because of snow which Pa. "We,re trying to get every-declare the Northeast a federal started Saturday and was still body in God's creation to help plow disaster area. 
falling heavily. 
these people out. •' Drifts in some areas of the More than two dozen weather­As the snow stopped, the clean-Northeast still recovering from the related deaths--some from over 
up started. The New York City Jan.20 storm were up to ten feet. exertion shoveling snow or strug­Sanitation Department had 3,700 Floodwaters swept low lying gling through drifts, were reported men on the streets working a coastal parts of New Jersev, New across the nation. 12-hour shift. They used 1,300 York, Connecticut, Massachusetts , 
'President Jimmy Carter declared major pieces of snowfighting and New Hampshire, forcing the emergencies for Massachusetts, equipment and were supplied with evacuation of thousands. Rhode Island and Connecticut and 42,000 tons of salt. About 600 state The Boston power blackout cut the Federal Disaster Assistance snow plows, aided by 1,000 private off electricity to 75,000 of coston Administration said 1,200 U.S. trucks and scores of county and Edison Co.'s 200,000 customers in Army troops were being flown to municipal crews, worked to clear the city at 3 a.m., but service was New England to help with snow roads in New Jersey. restored to all but 20,000 by 8 a.m. 
removal. 
Almost no area of the nation was The New York and American 

Like most disasters, the storms spared bad weather in one form or Stock exchanges, which closed brought out good and bad. New another. Chicago, still recovering early on Monday, opened late Jersey officials described public from a blizzard 12 days ago, was hit yesterday. Four of the five cooperation as "marvelous." In by an unexpected storm that began commodity exchanges in the city Icicles first formed during the blizzard linger on the walls of the 
Boston, however, at least ten Monday afternoon and left nine were closed as was the Boston Fieldhouse. Now it's the Northeast's turn as storms and low persons were arrested in the Rox­inches of snow on the ground. Stock Exchange. temperatures spread over the country. [photo by Kevin Walsh] bury and Dorchester areas after Near zero temperatures we"P. 
windows of two supermarkets were recorded in northern Georgia, and smashed and half a dozen other. the National Weather Service fore­stores were raided. cast snow by Wednesday. Okla­Coal strike costly 
Boston Police Commissioner homa got its sixth snowfall in 22 Joseph M. Jordan ordered all days with accumulations of up to off-duty policemen to .report to six inches. 
Electricity cutbacks 'guaranteed'
divisions with full riot gear yester­South Bend, Ind., shivered in 
day afternoon. morning temperatures of 14 below INDIANAPOLIS [AP] • A new council is needed before the con­· Sorrells said a survey by his zero -a record. Parts of Kansas got
The snow in the Northeast began delay in action on a tentative tract proposal can be put before the office Tuesday morning showed 
up to three inches of snow over­

sunday night -barely two weeks industry contract offer that could 160,000 striking miners in a secret­"any reduction was difficult to 
after the last blizzard and was still night. Sections of Wisconsin end the 65-day-old coal strike ''just ballot ratification vote expected to measure due to the severely cold falling in some parts at midday bordering on Lake Michigan were about guarantees" that mandatory take about ten days. weather. One utility reported up to yesterday, although it was less hit by one and one-half feet of snow cutbacks in electrical output will be "This is a distressing develop­a 13 percent cut, but most didn't severe than earlier and was expec­overnight. 
necessary in Indiana, a spokesman ment from the standpoint that we report because they couldn't ted to taper offduring the day. The A freight train was stuck for four for Gov. Otis R. Bowen said need a quick settlement if we're to measure it or reported no signifi­storm in New York City was hours in a 12-foot snowdrift in yesterday. avoid serious economic hardship in cant reductions.''
North Dakota. Winds up to 40 mph

officially declared ended at 3:30 "I do not see how at this point we this state," Watt said. Watt said mandatory curtail­
r p.m., about 40 hours after it began. made it feel like 45 below in 
I can avoid mandatory curtailments He said mandatory curtailments ments would vary from utility to 
Accumulations ranged from one to Montana. 
for at least some utilities," said could begin in a few days, but no utility, but range from IS percent to two feet. Northern California, already William J. Watt, the governor's top such orders will be issued before a 25 percent.
Transportation was at a near soaked by a weekend downpour, 
energy adviser. meeting Friday between govern­"You advise customers you ex­standstill. Airports in the North­was hit by a new round of heavy Watt's comments came after ment and utility representatives. pect them to use less electricty and 
east were shut down Monday, and· rains which caused a rash of regional leaders ofthe United Mine Bowen was in Washington for a if they fail to comply with that,airports in other parts of the rush-hour traffic accidents, minor 
Workers failed to take action on the speech yesterday and not due back working with the Public Service country were jammed with passen­flooding and mudslides. "Storms industry offer. The union's 39-in his office until this afternoon. Commission, you seek to enforce 
gers unable to reach snowbound are stacked up across the Pacific member bargaining council, in­Watt and William Sorrells, direc­it," he said. 
destinations. and headed this way," warned 
cluding District 11 President Larry tor of the Indiana Energy Office, ''Obviously, with the case of Officials of the Port Authority of one weather forecaster in Northern Reynolds of Dugger, Ind., recessed planned a series of news confer­homeowners, it's impossible to 
New York and New Jerse said California. The San Francisco area 

· LeadingCandidate? 
It takes a lot to become a leader in the Marines. You need hard training. Rigid discipline. Empha­sized responsibility. A determination to win. Confidence in those you lead. And a sense of integrity inspired by the uniform and insignia of a Marine Officer. 
If you want to make it-if you think you have what it takes to be one of our leading candi­dates See the Selection Team at Lafortune and 
the Ubrary, 9 am to 4 pm, until Friday. 

And put your leadership to our test. 

in Washington without taking a ences around the state Wednesday. enforce. But utilities can monitor vote and ordered negotiators ·to Sorrells said they would ask for the large industrial users, and develop final contract language voluntary elimination of all non­they're just going to be faced with before the panel acts on the essential lighting, both residential either playing ball or having the proposal. · and commercial. plug pulled." 
This could take several days, Both officials said Bowen's plea Sorrells said even after eventual meaning that the strike will contin­a week and a half ago for a ratification of a contract to end the ue to reduce coal stockpiles that voluntary 25 percent cut by all strike, "it will be 30 days before Watt said already are seriously electricity customers has produced we'll actually be out of the woods." low. no significant results. He said three electric generating 
Approval by the bargaining "Frankly, the past three days, it stations in the state have serious the governor's request has been coal shortages, although "they really sabotaged by a constant have been getting trickles of coal.'' stream of reports that a settlement Citing security reasons, he refused
'Art Talk' 
was at hand," Watt said. 
to identify the three. 
to be presented 

Sudden power failure
The University Art Gallery has been selected to preview a series of twelve taped interviews with noted artists in advance of public release. 

leaves Boston in the dark 
Open to the public without charge, the "Art Talk" programs of 30 to BOSTON [AP] -A power failure piece of tar paper roofing that was _90 minutes in length are scheduled that blacked out much of Boston for blown into the latticework of wires for 3 p.m. Friday afternoons begin­several hours yesterday, leaving at the city's largest generatingning this Friday. thousands cold and helpless in the station. 
midst of a blizzard, was caused by a ''It was burned and scorched, soThe series, supervised by the Art piece,of tar paper roofing blown by we don't know how large it was,"Institute of Chicago, will open with hurricane-force winds into generat-Lydon said of the roofing. He saidan interview with Alice Nee!. 
ing wires. · it ripped into what the company 
Others include Jim Dine, February "This is the worst we've had it in calls its L Street New Boston 17; Agnes Martin, February 24; an awful long time," said James Generating Plant, which faces Bos­Robert Irwin, March 3; Lucy Lip­Lydon, vice-president of Boston ton Harbor on the South Boston pard, March 10; Sol Lewitt, March Edison Co., which lost power to waterfront. 
17; Marcia Tucker, March 22; Ree 75,000 of its 200,000 customers in Boston Edison began restoring Morton, March 31; Joan Mitchell, the metropolitan area. There was power at 8 a.m. But by midday, April7; Louise Bourgeois, April14; no estimate of the number of about 20,000 customers in the Back 
individuals affected. Bay and along the Charles River to Nancy Grossman, April 21; and The power started to fail shortly Kenmore Square still were without Phillip Pearlstein, April 28. before 1:30 a.m. yesterday. By electricity. 
dawn, with the storm still lashing The Boston subway system, op­" Art Talk" will be jointly spon· at the city, Bostonians awoke in erating on an emergency power sored by the art department, chilly, powerless homes. system, maintained abbreviated 
·t~ ... .O'Shaughneu:::~~;, Gallerie•. . Lydon b~med ',:;~~··;.~~ "~~.'~.:, 
• 

· l::,..,, ."·_·.·.·. ·:4\~ ; .. ~· ? rr "4 ., "· ~ · ~-~:'{7~~ 
IW'.

•"'.:~~--,·~; ~~. r. l.··~ij.~t'' ~--·~ •!-~~ ••• ' • .·l,.r!'t1.~: ··!_~ ..~t~~.l· ------------------------'---------~---------"---··.,,···-. .,~f~~(').." .' '~ ., ·'-~~....;.;1·~"·~~-~~··' '~~-·':,,·: \~ 
Wedne"sdav, February 8, 1978 the observer 
Cuban troops aid Ethiopian forces 
MAGADISHU"' Somalia [AP] ) 
. Thousands of Cuban soldiers are steaming toward the Horn of Africa aboard Soviet ships to help Ethi­opia in its war against ethnic Somali rebels, diplomatic sources claimed on yesterday. 
The reports said about 3,000 to 6,000 Cuban troops left their Caribbean homeland for Ethiopia sometime last week and would "triple or double" the number of Cubans said to be fighting in 
southeastern  Ethiopia's  disputed  
Ogaaen  Desert  on  the  Somalia  
border.  

portions of the Ogaden. But Jeffries said the Marxist military regime denied Somali government claims Ethiopia plans to invade its East African neighbor with the help of Cuban troops and Soviet military advisers. Neither the opening of the counter-offensive nor the transport of additional Cuban troops to Ethiopia could be confirmed inde­pendently. Diplomatic sources say Cuban 
Gen.  Carlos  Achoa  is  in  Addis  
Ababa helping plan  the  counter­ 
offensive  aimed  at  ending  the  

Cuban troops have been sent to Ethiopia, raising the estimated number of Cubans in the conflict to 4500. Yesterday, spokesman Hodding Carter III said the United States does not believe "the par­ticipation of outside powers is useful" in the Horn of Africa and cautioned both Egypt and against supplying arms or troops to Somal­ia or Ethiopia. 
In Rome, Ethiopia's information minister, Maj. Girma Neway, said yesterday his\country has "every right " to rec~ive non-combat aid from any friendly country. 

The ethnic Somali rebels want to weapons and Cuban troops beingjoin the Ogaden to Somalia, with sent to Ethiopia is a prelude to an which they share a common lang­Ethiopian invasion of its country. 
uage and culture. Ethiopia also is The Soviet Union and Cuba, the battling secessionists in the north­Magadishu govern1J1ent says, plan ern province of Eritrea which to seize the Somali ports of Zeila 
controls the country's only access and Berbera on the Gulf of Aden to to the Red Sea. gain control, over Western oil Somalia, while providing the supply routes from the Middle 
insurgents with material support, East. claims the huge amount of Soviet 
Sadat to 'raise hell' over U.S.' weapons sales 
The sources said most of the six-month-old war. Achoa was the The sources said Cuban troops WASHINGTON [AP] • Egyptian Cuban troops are believed slated reputed mastermind when Cuban primarily provide artillery support President Anwar Sadat told mem­for a major role in Ethiopia's long forces helped bring about a Marxist for Ethiopian soldiers at the bers of Congress yesterday that he expected counter-offensive to drive victory in Angola's 1975-1976 civil government strongholds of Harar will not be shy in asking for U.S. 
out ethnic Somali rebels who now war. and Diredawa in the northern weapons, adding that "I shall raise control about 97 percent of the The latest contingent of Cuban Ogaden. the Cubans are driving hell" if Congress does not approve
Ogaden and are trying to annex it soldiers is believed heading for tanks and armored personnel car­them. to Somalia. Assab, Ethiopia's last remaining riers in ground battles and flying Although the comment was 
In Addis Ababa, AP correspon­open port along the Red Sea and an Ethiopia's MiG-17 and MiG-21 made with a laugh after a meetingdent Brian Jeffries reported Ethi­apparent gathering point for Cuban planes -new!~ acquired from the with members of the House of opia formally announced yesterday forces, the sources report. Soviet Union -!in saturation bomb­Representatives, he seemed more 
it had launched a major military In Washington, the State Depart-: ings < f Somali-held towns, pri­somber as he emerged later from a offensive to recapture rebel-held ment reported at least 1,000 more m~rily Jijiga, diplomats report. similar session with a Senate
1 


The TI-57. The super slide-rule that'll get you into programming... fast and easy. 
Even ifyou've never programmed before. 

For the student who re­simply means giving it a logical cient use of your time in prob­quires slide-rule functions, the set of instructions for accom­lem-solving. TI-57 delivers an exceptional plishing what you want it to All this and more is ex­
combination of advanced do. Programming enables you plained in our unique, illus­mathematical and statistical to solve lengthy and repetitive trated, easy-to-follow guide­capabilities. From functions problems boo_k, "Making Tracks Into such as trig, logs, powers, roots quickly 
Programming." This 200-page and reciprocals ...to mean, var­by sub­book comes with the Tl-57. It 
contains simple, step-by-step

iance, standard deviation and stituting instructions and examples to
much more. new vari­And as long as you're in ables into help you quickly learn to use the market for a super slide­the set of programming functions to rule calculator, why not buy instructions make your problem-solving onethatcan also put the power, whicnyou faster, more accurate and fun. speed and convenience of pro­have al­
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ~ 

gramming at your disposal? ready entered into the machine. ••• INNOVATORS IN 
PERSONAL ELECTRONICS
Programming a calculator ·The end result is more effi-
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

® 1111 Teua lnslruments Incorporated INCORPORATED 
group. 
"I threatened them," Sadat said after his closed door talks with the senators. 
After talking with the House members, Sadat offered the "raise hell" comment with a laugh, but said in a sedous tone about his request to buy U.S. arms: "The last time I was here I was shy. But I am not shv anv more." 
Then, after meeting with mem­bers of the Senate, Sadat said: "I 

·am not any more shy at all. I am speaking as a partner and I am t11reatening." He refused to say how he threatened the senators and it was not clear from his manner how serious the threat had been. 
Sadat said he had lost his "shyness" after what he saw as an overwhelming American response, to his Middle East peace initia­tives. 
He suggested that congressional approval of the arms sales to Egypt would demonstrate that the United States is behind Egyptian efforts to acl;lieve peace in the Middle East and would be a demonstration of "partnership and cooperation." 
After their meeting with Sadat, several House members said the Egyptian president told them he wa,nted more than the 120 light­weight F-5E jet fighters he repor­tedly is asking the Carter adminis­tration and Congress to approve. But the House members said Sadat did not specify what other arms he IVanted. 
When reporters asked Sadat if he also wants the Air Force's sophisti­cated new swinging E-15 jet fighter, he refused to specify but said he has given a meticulous list to :President Carter. 
After the meeting on the House side of the Capitol. Democratic Le~der Jim Wright of Texas said he believes that whatever President Carter requests for Sadat: "I think we'll give him.'' 
Congress must approve cash sales of U.S. weapons abroad as well as credit sales and outright gifts of arms. 
An official at the National Secur­ity Council said it has not made recommendations to President Car­ter yet on arms requests from Egypt, Israel, Saudi Arabia or Iran. 
They said Sadat was asked what guarantees the Arabs could give that Israel would be safe from attack under any peace agreement and that Sadat replied that he has already promised whatever guaran­tees Israel wants in the Sinai. 
Halls remonstrated 
[contlaaecl from page 1] the matter with Cavanaugh is settled. "He (Miceli) says he is going to set it up and I believe him. He bas expressed a desire to . conform to the rules. I hope it will . be set up within the week." This week Bender will be visiting Flanaer Hall to address the issue for tile second time there since the tules went into effect. He expects that the result in Flanner will be the same as in Cavanaugh. "I emphasize that these are not my rules, but those of the Board of Trustees," he remarked. John Tucker, Chairman of the Cavanaugh Judicial Board. played down the importance of Bender's visit. "I think the only effect will be a greater awareness of the J-Board in the hall," he said. 



EDITORIAL BOARD

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed

The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Kathy Mills Executive Editor

Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not 
Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor

necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The 
Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor

news is reported as accurately and as objectively as 
Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor

possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
Katie Kerwin News Editor

the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters 
Barb Langhenry News Editor

are the views of their authors. Column space is available 
Paul Stevenson Sports Editor

to all members of the community, and letters are 
Pat Cole Special Projects Ed.

encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
Tony Pace Features Editor

opinions on campus. 
Busmess Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Notre Dame Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
Wednesday, February 8, 1978 

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! P . 0 . Box Q 
by Pat Byrnes 
•. . 1 l,;r;AT I<Al:W > go.,-'r ~I~~~ As HELL. 
I 

late hour. It could have been into forests...stop mowing down 
accomplished at another, more sapling trees

Special friend 
suitable hour. All that was a. buy nursery trees and plant them 

required of the man in charge was opinion~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
b. save fruit seeds and scatter themremembered the judicous use of some common on your lawn or in wild areas (don't 
sense and some feeling for others. mow them down when they start towith love JerryLyaea grow) JIIIICaytua c. eat the tree's fruit as a way of
Dear Editor: Beary Maa.eo reinforcing a system of treesTo many he was a friend, but to AIMoateroe d. use cotton rather than lumber for 
Getting
many more he was a special friend. 
Staafonl BaD paperSteve Calonje had so many good 

e. build homes from brick rather

qualities that I don't know where to than lumber 
spent a lot Blizzard '78: to the Roots begin. We of time 
f. if you are a farmer, consider

together and I'll always treasure 
allowing more fruit and nut trees to 

close moments we shared. His revenge be scattered among your crops enthusiasm, in everything he did, 
g. reduce the area of land you mow 

was amazing and his talents were 
for the trees 

many. Whatever he did he would 
Manbaii Bertsch 

pour himself into it. A perfect Dear Edlton iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiia I rabideou 
Akron, Ohio 44303 Last semester the Hunger Coali­example was his excellence as a Question: Is the snow Indiana's [where we have u much mow u tion tried to emphasize a different for the person unable to mold hisdrummer. To watch him play was a fault? 
Indiana] aspect of the traditional Wednes­own life. And working onlyperformance in itself. Answer: No, it's the fault of the day night fast program: its contri­through politics, regardless ofI can go on and on about how entire world. Earthlings have cut bution to an increased understand­one's persuasion overlooks thespecial Steve was to me and others. down more than 100 million square 
Laundry needs 

ing of global poverty here at Notre compassion which is at the root ofI can go on and on about his fine miles of trees in the last thirty Dame. Perhaps it would be a good our concern. So we keep on withabilities as a drummer, pool shark years...some of the last remaining time to add a few more thoughts on both approaches, trying to find the
and tennis player, but the most rain forest on the planet has been NQ branch the subject in the hope that more proper balance. Perhaps some­important qualities I'll always re­chopped down in Indonesia, Bor­
people might be moved to partici­times we slip too much towards onemember are the happiness, joy and neo, and the Amazon river basin. Dear Editor: pate in the program. extreme. But the point is not tolove he brought to me. A large The snow and other violent weather In the latest of its series of In the past, the Hunger Coalition keep on a mathematical course; thechunk of my life is gone now, but patterns are the delayed effect of practical and efficient decisions, has tended to come across as point is that we try to love as muchI'll never forget Steve. His light this destruction. the University has decided to add primarily a money-raising organi­as we can and hope for the best.
still shines and I thank God I had Trees are, except for the ocean, additional washers and dryers to zation, as those poor people freez­
the fortunate opportunity to be his the earth's most efficient weather the facilities at Badin Hall. While Which brings us to the fast.
ing out in front of the dining halls
friend. I'll miss you, Steve, and I'll stabilizers. we applaud the long overdue Many people think that it is a
simply to squeeze a quarter or two
action, we wonder about maximiz­

always love you. Question: What do trees do? useful thing. Some don't. Person­
out of someone's beer money.
L.A.O. ing its usefulness. Why not install 

Answer: ally, I can find little sympathy for
Hopefully people are beginning to
1. In the summer, they account for the new equipment in a different anyone who feels that missing one
realize that the problem demands a
Insomniacs a 20 degree difference in tempera­location, say the basement of bit more complicated response than meal a week will upset his health,
Flanner or Grace? The necessary

ture between city and country. or even worse, his G.P.A. Hell, we
that. It has been said before that
space is surely available, and the

Serenaded 2. They protect the ~ater table. are talking about people who barely this money, both from the collec­3. They prevent eroston. electrical and plumbing work 
manage to eat one meal a day,tions and from the fast, does
4. They process up to 40 gallons needed would not be too unreason­sometimes one in a week. And
nothing to change things. In fact,
able. Such a move would eliminate 

by snowPI0 ws each of water out of the air daily. after all, we are part of the cause,
some would argue that it has a 
many unnecessarily long treks

De Edlto • 5. Forests act as giant combs, while both by our own overconsumption
negative effect by helping to pacify 
:e are r~riting to thank those clo~ds pass overhead, filtering across campus, while providing a the suffering masses enough to and by our support, active or 
necessary service to hundreds of 

t. 1 selfless Notre Dame motsture out of the clouds and passive, of economic and political
keep them from turning to radicaltre ess, tmo here students. 
systems that allow some to feastgroundskeepers whose boundless a sp · . th . measures to call attention to their
Weary North Quad Washers 

energies enabled t~em to oper~te ~· ;hey store water tn etr root needs. So why do we perservere in while others starve. 
snow removal equtpment outstde 7pT.h b ak t tt the cold, why do we occupy our The fast doesn't change this, but our windows from 12:30 to 2 a.m. · ey re . up s orm pa e~s time with these seemingly point­
it is several things: a first step in anlast night. The noise generated by through the gtant green osmotic Fido vs. 
less gestures? 

effort to consume less; a vehicle tothe various snowplows, front-end system. The Hunger Coalition believes take time to reflect on our own roleloaders and tractor trailers as-8. They supply oxygen for the 'the watchdog' that it is important to make in affecting poverty; a chance to· planet.
sured us, as we Iay awake tn our . . contributions to the problem on two 
actually feel at least one hungerbeds, that Notre Dame is indeed a O_ther thtngs trees do are. Dear Editor: levels: by working to alter the pang a week; and a demonstrationlace where the fallen snow has 9.. gtve .free food. An apple orchard While I was legging through economic systems which force peo­that a hopefully enormous numberp t "t' t h wtll yteld one quarter mUUon Thursday's Observer, I ran across ple to be poor; and by trying
me t s rna c . d if th tr r of us here feel strongly enough to
If we sound sarcastic, it is JM'DD 8 per acre · e ees a e the picture of the so-called through charity to Jessen the make this gesture, however insig­. d d t La t · ht allowed to reach old age. "watchdog" of lOth floor Flanner. 
because we tnten e o. s ntg 10 · h t 0 wildl'fi burden on some of the poorest, nificant, together. This speaks as we lay awake, it was not kudos ll.gtve.dome~ 1 e. You ask "Who's going to challenge perhaps bringing a bit more dignity 
much louder than a multitude of 
for the grounds keepers that sprang ·provt ebpnvtyacy· a tarantula?" Another tarantula, to someone's life here in South 
individual sacrifices performed at to mind, but anger and incredulity. 12.supp1Y eau · of course! Believe me, I'd be too Bend and throughout the world. 
times perhaps more convenient toWe found it hard to believe that ques~on: What,can we do about much for his eight legs to handle. Neither approach is sufficient by us.
any rational person would schedule Indtana s weather· Flclo, The Barldug Splde.r itself. Charity provides relief, but the aforementioned work for such a Answer: change yards, parks Keepers: T.G. & B.D. no real satisfaction, no real respect 
Many of us would like to see a much deeper concern with getting 

' .f.... 
~ 
Wednesday, February 8, 1978 
the observer 

Oxfam Fights World Hunger And Neglect 
The Oxford Committee for Famine Relief, known as Oxfam, is working to enable the inhabitants of underdeveloped countries to alleviate their problems. Oxfam is a small, mobile, non-profit international agency supporting self-help development projects in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Oxfam' s objective is to work with people, not for them, thus decreasing their dependency on outside aid. The efforts of those striving for a better, or at least decent way of life are encouraged and supported. 
Oxfam's staff of experienced field workers resides in the poorest countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. They encourage local development efforts and report on those worth funding. The field reports are evaluated, and those deemed deserving are financially supported. Oxfam places an emphasis on long-term develop­ment that becomes self-sustaining. An example of an Oxfam project was the refief supplied to the Guatemala earthquake victims. The aid was not simple handouts but, in response to the desires of the peasants, Oxfam taught hut construction that would withstand future earthquakes. With this background, the villagers could instruct each other in the techniques that Oxfam initiated. This type of assistance is needed. Natural disasters occur often for these people. Several projects are now underway in Bangladesh and Bolivia to help these people recover from previous 
disasters. 
Bangladesh is a country the size of Wisconsin with a population of 80 million people, the eighth most populous country in the world. Ninety percent of these people are farmers whose lives are dependent on favorable weather. In July, 1974, the small rural town of Jamalpur experienced some of the worst floods in its history, destroying more than half of the annual harvest. The Oxfam supported 
I like Genesis. Big deal, right? After all, some supposedly intelligent people go so far as to think that the Sex Pistols are God's gift to music. But while the Sex Pistols give British rock a bad name with its meaningless musical meanderings, trite tonal trivialities, and an economy of style necessitated by a sheer lack of talent, Genesis saves this art form's image by providing consistently refreshing music. Genesis is, perhaps, one of the most lyrical and thematic of British classical-rock groups. 
Genesis was never a popular band, even in England (until recently). Critics slashed at the theatrics of then-lead-singer Peter Gabriel. Some labled the group a cheap imitation of Yes, with its concentration on stage productions, Steve Howf' guitar riffs, mellotrons in the Rick Wakeman style, and complex, image-laden, meaning-riddled lyrics. (Jon Anderson is much more cosmic, however; where Yes floated in space, Genesis stayed on the ground.) Consequently, Genesis was given a lacka­daisical glance by many, and then swept under the rug. 
But those of high intellectual levels, impeccable musical tastes, and extraordin­ary degrees of musical insight, realized this group's full potential as a significant musical entity. (The preceding was a statement of the utmost in pomposity. After all, how can anyone realize a group's full potential?) 
Genesis had its own musical concept, its own presentation of images, its own artistic direction. That concept jelled with The Lamb Ues DoWD On Broadway. Gabriel's lyrical images, coupled with flawless instrumentation (keyboardist Tony Banks stands out especially) provided a devasta­ting double lp. Unfortunately, it got panned by the critics. In frustration and disappointment, Gabriel left the group, leaving the future of Genesis in doubt. 
The 1976 release of A Trick Of The TnJI took critics and fans by surprise. Drummer Phil Collins took the lead, possessing vocals which naturally mimicked his prede­cessor's characteristic sound. Although the new lyrics lacked some of the raw intensity of Gabriel's, they were less abstract, more developed, and equally powerful. 
Likewise, a new instrumental awakening raised Genesis to higher levels of coniposi-Bangladesh Rural Advancement Commit­tee (BRAC), a group of Bangladesh development workers, technicians, and teachers, arrived to assist the people of J amalpur. After quelling the immediate crisis, these workers remained to organize a functional education program for the women of Jamalpur and the neighboring areas. Beginning on a small scale, BRAC helped the women achieve better lives for themselves and their families while becom­ing self-sufficient in the process. These women proceeded to instruct groups of other women about child care, health and 
BRAC and Oxfam are expanding with the needs of these women. More education is being provided in child health and post natal care. Also, the forums are expanding to include things such as: preventive health care through vaccination and sanitation, more productive agricultural methods, the planting of vegetables and fruit trees, poultry raising, fertilization and irrigation techniques, and the production of raw silk from silkworms. All of these are steps toward self-reliance for the women and their families. 
Oxfam is also working in Bolivia to 
Oxfam is one of the organizations supported 
by funds· from the ND..SMC Hunger Coalition. These funds are raised in part by student fasting on Wednesday euening. Students may sign up for the fasting program tonight in the dining halls. 
nutrition, imporved agricultural methods, and basic literacy skills. The Bangladeshi progressed rapidly, learning that their own ignorance was the source of most of their problems. 
Later, these women organfze<l coopera­tives, savings societies and forums, and began to better understand poverty and how to collectively abolish it. The dominant attitude of the women is a desire for assistance in self-help. They want to manage, labor, think, and live for them­selves. This includes giving the children of Jamalpur an education. These were big steps for Jamalpur's women who previous­ly were seldom seen outside of their homes. 
relieve the impoverished. Most of Boliviz' s 6 million people live on the Altiplano, a bleak, windswept, treeless plain. Here people have existed on a diet of potatoes, but in recent years, the land wili not even produce this meagre yield. The Altiplano inhabitants, the Aymara Indians, have been migrating to the cities and valleys in search of adequate food and shelter for their families. Land is available to them in the Altiplano, but without any capital or credit, and with a limited supply of water, the farmers cannot survive. They become dependent on seasonal plantation work, becomin~ rootless and expendable. 
In l'J71, the CIU, a united church committee comprise4 of Methodists, 
Seconds Out Of Genesis 
tion complexity. Steve Hackett emerged as an adept and tasteful guitarist. Bassist/ guitarist/vocalist Michael Rutherford in­creased his musical diversity. Tony Banks proved himself in the ranks with Rick Wakeman and Patrick Moraz. And Collins, live performance? Or even in a harsher test: a live album? 
I believe a well-produced live album is essential in evaluating a band's capabili­ties. It gives a picture of the group in its purest form, void of retakes, overdubs, 

with the new Uenesis release and a studio album with Brand X, became known as a very talented jazz-rock drummer. 
The group's subsequent recording, Wind & Wutherlng, was of equal musical content and technical quality. Genesis rose to the top of the charts in England, not only increasing their popularity, but getting them out of debt. Genesis had established itself as a superb studio group. But would that same degree of excellence hold up in a multi-tracking, ana other tecnnical wizard­ry. 
Genesis had a live lp released in 1974. It was terrible. Oh, the music was exciting. But there were mistakes in performance, dead spots in important passages, and the entire album suffers from poor mixing, muddled recording, and inferior pressing. (So much for "the famous Charisma label.") · 
By the time A Trick Of Tbe TaO was 

by· kevin cleary 
Mennonites, Maryknoll Sisters and Oblate priests, began an orientation program for new colonists to provide them with the information and resources which would make life in their new invironment pos­sible. Over the past six years, the CIU has played a leading role in colonization programs, helping to settle some 600 families in stable communities. Their success can be attributed to their encour­agement of social, rather than individual settlements, and on shared decision mak­
ing and group participation. The CIU has had an effect on the Bolivian government's policy on colonization schemes. 
Oxfam has supported CIU since its inception. Their latest contribution to CIU was in the form of a $16,000 grant towards the cost of an orientation program involv­ing new members of the San Julian Colony, one of the largest resettlement schemes in the country. The aim of this program is to assist the colonies in creating new inde­pendent communities. The specific goals are to teach new colonists about their new environment, and to insturct them in the utilization of the natural resources now available to them. Each individual carries the responsibility for his own land parcel, with the expectation that he will take an active role in the decisions affecting his community as a whole. In the future the au plans long term developments like introducing dry season crops so the farmers will not have to seek seasonal plantation work to supplement their in­comes. As families join with the colonists from the Altiplanos, programs similar to those now used in Bangladesh will be introduced. 
The ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition feels Oxfam is very worthy of support. Over the past four years the Coalition has donated $8,500. To continue their support of Oxfam, the hunger coalition needs the support of the ND-SMC students. Such an organization should not be hindered by a lack of necessary funds. 
by frank Iaurino 
released, Genesis had already cleaned up its act considerably. And the Atlantic people (new contract( were highly skilled in live recording. But the group had a formidable task in designing a live format which would successfully reproduce the studio album. The problems were not minor. Hackett was using more guitar overdubs and multi-tracks. Banks was doing the same with synthesizers and other electronic keyboards. He also had the additional self-imposed problem of refus­ing to use a piano on stage (he found it too cumbersome). 
While Rutherford concentrated on play­ing 4-, 6-, and 8-string basses (rather than backing Hackett on guitar and playing bass pedals), Collins found he could not adequately play drums and sing at the same time (due to frequent meter changes and counter-rhythmic progressions). In the studio, he played drums on one take, sang lead vocals on a second, and added other percussion instruments for background vocals on a third. 
What Genesis appeared to be heading for was the horrendous ''Zeppelin Syn­drome." Led Zeppelin features Jimmy Page, who is a great guitarist. Trouble is, he's the only guitarist. Consequently, he overdubs multiple guitar tracks in the studio. Likewise,Zeppelinbassist John Paul Jones adds keyboard tracks when he finishes recording the bass lines. Pretty tricky, huh? 
Well, the resnlt in concert isn't too magical. Page is often left dangling during guitar solos with nothing behind him except bass and drums. And Jones would occasionally make futile attempts to simul­taneously play keyboards and bass pedals. 
What makes thi~ so bizarre is that Led Zeppelin has a very exciting and cJnsis­tently dynamic stage show. Their tours tend to sell out. In fact, some people have been known to incite riots when they could not get tickets. 
But listen to the soundtrack from The Soag ReJDina Tbe Same. Except for "No Quarter," the title track, and perhaps "Celebration," this 2-record live experi­ence is just horrible. The instrumental performances are weak and thin, often to the point where Robert Plant's singing, screaming, moaning and groaning falls to 
[coatlnaed oa paae I] 



Wednesday, February 8, 1978

8 
the observer 
Seconds Out of Genesis (Cont'd) 
.. 

Down On Broadway. Genesis takes one of jump from his drums, dance front stage this lp, save ''Cinema Show." [continued from page 7] their finest pieces and does it one better. with a tambourine, and pounce on the This is the only major disappointment in put meat on this group's bones. In a word: The mood is softly highlighted by the drums again. There is a fantastic synthe-Seconds Out: it's ironic that the man who disaster. crooning of Collins and the effective sizer and guitar riff reminiscent of the influence the Collins style gets only one cut 
Genesis actively sought to avoid this harmonies of Rutherford and Banks. The in-concert jam segment of Yes' "Starship to display his talents. Where Thompson occurence. Their concert program was keyboards pulsate with the subtle drums, Trooper." Hackett and Banks fill this often mimicks, Bruford creates, adding altered to eliminate or radically rearrange and Hackett is moving as he quietly moans number with a selection of classical dramatically to the group's overall sound. songs with multiple guitar tracks or on his Les Paul. (Genesis will surely miss Genesis themes and melodies. Collins a·nd Bruford combine for some extensive use of the piano. Rutherford Hackett next tour; he has gone solo.) The medley "The Lamb Lies Down On intricate drum work on "Cinema Show," became proficient with the double-neck "Robbery, Assault & Battery" is in-Broadway/The Musial Box" is fun. Nei-whetting an appetite which is unable to be guitar/bass, allowing him to quickly switch strumentally complex, and I was skeptical ther song is as well done as its studio satisfied on this album. Genesis would do parts in mid-song. For some numbers, of its successful live performance. But version, but Genesis plays this combina-well to regain the services of Bill Bruford, Banks was pressed into acoustic guitar Collins leads a delightful rendition, occa-tion with a flair which is very enjoyable to truly one of the greatest progressive service. And assisting Banks with his sionally treading the theatrical territory of listen to. (The "On Broadway" interlude is percussionists of our time. (Adding ex-Yes myriad keyboards was Collins, learning a Gabriel with animated voice characteriza-particularly hu~orous.) guitarist Peter Banks in Hackett's absence few necessary synthesizer passages. tions. Banks and Hackett shine again, and Th . d. . . "S , would also have llreat notential.) 
Collins still faced the dilemma of singt' ng . e ptece ~~ reststance ts upper s A medley from1,A Trlc·k Of The Tall closes 
Collins is surpris10gly good on a synthe-Ready," the F;oxtrot superclassic. This 

and playing drums. He wanted to do both; sizer solo. However, a weak ending spoils beautiful side-long conceptual journey far out the album. This cut is almost ruined by 
to be sure, the group would suffer if he the fun. surpasses the original recording. Collin's Thompson, who drags through the opening 
sacrificed one for the other. The obvious Side One concludes with .. Afterg1ow," vocals are not only as pleasingly captiva-song, "Dance On A Volcano." The medley solution was to add an auxiliary percus-one of the prettiest numbers from Wind & ting as Gabriel's were, but are also much is saved by Collins, who directs a sionist who would play drums when Collins Wutherlng. Nothing wrong here: solid ·more refined. The interweaving arpeggios synchronized dual-drum solo with Thomp­sang. Genesis grabbed Bill Bruford(Yes, vocals,tastefuluseoforganandmellotron, of Banks' polymoog, Rutherford's 12-son. (This does not surpass the Collins/ King Crimson) for the Trick Of The Tall and an exciting build to a powerful ending. string, and Hackett's Les Paul are hypnoti-Bruford bout in the tour film.) The group tour, and ex-Zappa disciple Chester Collins and Thompson highlight with dual zing. Thompson gives his best perfor-concludes with a solid "Los Endos." Thompson for the Wind & Wutherlng tour. drumming. mance on this side. Seconds Out will definitely not go down 
The question rema10ed: what about a Side Two starts off with the most . . as one of the greatest live albums of all 
live album? Could Genesis prove itself in a "Supper's Ready" is a complex song, time (such as Yes, Yessongs; Ten Years 
· 'd f · 1 d t h · thematic of songs from Selllng England By 't" h · t th
medmm vot o vtsua an a mosp enc , wt v numerous~ anges 10 me er, erne, After, Recording Uve·, and Tom Waits,
· · The Pound: "Firth Of Fifth." It takes a 1 d 't' · 1 d · d G · 

distractions, in a state of mtmmum , an : composttona evtces, an enests Nighthawks At The Diner). However, it 
h · 1 1 t' h th · while to get into this song because the · pe.Jor 'th artf 1 nfid e (Notable
tee mea a tera ton, w ere e mustc ' rr: ms WI u co enc · does represent a fine classical-rock band 
would either stand for itself or fall on its piano intro was eliminated. Although I, is the section "Apocalypse 9/8" and "As who comes close to equalling __ even 
face? Banks fails to effectively substitute the 'Sure. As Eggs Is Eggs"). The studio . II . th . tud' 
RMI eletric piano for the Steinway in the lrecordt'ng ,·n 1972 was an ambt'tt'ous occastona y surpassmg --etr s to
Seconds Out is not a perfect recording. 1 efforts. Furthermore, this lp reflects the 
· d' (N 'th crucial middle section, he saves the piece nd rt k' r th N th t
Ltve recor mgs never are. et er are u e a 10g ,or e group. ow a potential Genesis has for continued excel-
d. d' f h tt ) B t · with dazzling synthesizer runs. Collins and G n · h "S • R d " 
stu 10 recor mgs, or t at rna er. u 10 e ests as grown up, uppers ea y lence in the studio. 
. rt Thompson again provide driving dual drum • ·t f 11 oti'o 1t' t

approaching the state of thetr own a ' ga1ns 1 s u em na mpac . Wt'th Seconds Out, Genesis overcomes
combinations (which last for much of this
I

Genesis comes close. Damn c ose. Side Four opens with, sadly, the only cut its problems with live performance. They
· h "S k " Trl k Of side). Hackett is tight once more, backed

The lp opens wtt quon • a c with Bill Bruford: "Cinema Show." This meet the challenge head-on, and prove that 
· h' by Rutherford's intense 12-string (a bit

The Tall cut. This cut ts not 10g extraor-d' · piece is done very well, with continued they are not J·ust another studio band. 
· · h b · undermiked) and bass peda1s ( tttOJ,

dinary, as it loses 1mpact w1t out etng brilliance by Banks and yet another Listen to The Lamb Lies Down On 
I d" h d' Bank's symphonic mellotrons, and Collin's 

preceded by "Entang e (as on t e stu to synthesizer solo by Collins. But the real Broadway, A Trick Of The Tall, and Wind 
powerful voice. 

album). Plus. I've always felt this song was ''I Know What I Like" is instrumentally treat is Bruford, the astounding you~g & Wutherlng. They're masterpieces. Then 
one verse too long. But a classical Genesis percussionist featured in the Genesis listen to Seconds Out. You'll; want to
d · perfect. This song opened the Trick Of The h
ending re eems lt. Tall tour, so it's placement here is concert movie. For reasons unkno~n, t e experience Genesis in concerti --if for 
Next is "The Carpet Crawl," a beautiful-group chose the Thompson recordmgs for nothing else for the music.
· f Th Lamb U questionable. Too bad we can't see Collins , ________I d
y rearrange verston o e es r-------------------1 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~tentionJunio~! ! 
I I 
I I 
1 Sign up for preferred seating I 
II at the Junior ParentsWeekend I Presidents Dinner. 
Thurs., Feb 9 12:15---4:30'pm. Fri.,FebiO 12:IS---4:30pm. In the lobby of La Fortune. Those who fail to make ·~ I preliminary arrangements I 
Sophomore Literary Festival Preview Week is currently at the Nazz. Hopefully the preview will 
spark student interest in the writers. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
II will be seated randomly. II 
I . I
Nazz previews Lit Festival ~--------------------------· 
commented. accompanied with an original 

The Bong Show 
by Marian Ulicny Remaining events are as follows: composition by Carol Shuback, 
Senior Staff Reporter Tonight, Pete Seeger and Anne piano, and Lisa Liu and Kathy
Beattie readings will be given. Dunbar, flutes. The music was 

Three evenings remain in the Readings from Jerry Defuccio (of written for the poem by Shuback. 
Needs Contestants! 
Sophomore Literary Festival (SL~) Mad Magazine) and Harlan Ellison "Box," a 15-minute play by Preview Week to be held thts Edward Albee will also be
will be presented tomorrow. Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday "The Blue Swallows," a poem performed Fri. night by Mary Toll. in the Nazz. by Howard Nemerov will be read The play was directed by Berndt. 
WSND·AM640 Once Again 
by Lisa Jaquez in a repeat perfor­authors appearing next week will mance on Friday. Jaquez will be in LaFortune basement. · be presented. Student readers 
Selections from the works of the All performances begin at 9 p.m. 
Presents The Bong Show.
include members of Prof. Fred 
Syburg's Advanced Oral Interpre­
tation class and the ND-SMC 
HPC discusses••• 

Speech Team coached by ND law 
student Ray Berndt. 
We Need Talents of 
[continued from paae 1] Huard, who is also the HPCTheresa Rebeck, SLF chair­

representative to the Campus Life

person, stated that the preview's consultant Bob Murphy. The 
Council, reported on the CLC 

Kind For Sat. Nites Show 
purpose is to "spark student purpose of the meeting was to 
organizational meeting held Mon­

interest" in the writers scheduled exchange ideas and concerns about 
day night. He said that the CLC

to speak. "The best way is to sit campus security. Huard labeled 
will serve as "an advisory board to

down and read some of the stories the meeting "pretty constructive", 
the Vice-President for Studeut

or poems beforehand, but we and Russell said that he would 
Call 6400 For Details 
Affairs.''

figured that few people would write Paczesny, recapitulating pre­
He added that the CLC wUl hold

actually do this. The Nazz is a viously discussed ideas and weekly meetings Wedllesday
nights in Keenan hall. ..________________________.,.
pretty painless way to get , mentioning some other sugges­
acquainted with the writers," she . tions . 
.,.II\IISIIII)~,.-ot-~ •tl.•t~.,-,•1'."1" ·.1'1'f"'I.7J'I.Vfl .T-I.J".T~>'J'..tV'TI.TI~~~.'VJI'IIJ"ll"fJI'• 
~... ~·· . 
...·,, ',•L, 



LA Hillside Strangler ·.writes to mayor 
LOS ANGELES [AP] • A man claiming to be the Hillside Strang­ler said in a letter made public yesterday that he killed a dozen "evil ladies" because his mother told him to. 
Police, stressing that they did not know whether the letter was authentic, said the writer gave them "another week or so" to meet his call for help in turning himself in safely, and threatened "some­thing serious" if authorities failed to respond. 
Assistant Police Chief Daryl F. Gates read reporters the first page of the pencil-printed, six page letter mailed last month to Mayor Tom Bradley. The lined school notebook page said: 
"Dear Mr. Mayor. 
"PLEASE listen to me. -. am very sick, but I do not want to go back to that place. I hate that place. My mother tole me to kill those evil ladies. It's not my fault.. .Mother makes my head 
Audio-visual aids offered 
The Office of Educational Media in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation offers a variety of audio­visual aids on the subject of justice for class use during today and tomorrow's Justice Teach-In. Call Sr. Elaine DesRosiers at 1829 for booking. 
Carter fears rise in college costs 
W ASBINGTON [AP] • President Jimmy Carter will announce a major program today to provide a reported $1.2 billion to college students from middle-income fam­ilies because he fears a 71 percent jump in college costs has put their chances for higher education in jeopardy. 
Hoping to stave off a move in Congress to give a $250 tax credit to the parents of all college students, Carter will propose a combination of grants and loans for the aid, said White House Press Secretary Jody Powell. 
It was announced last month that Carter had set aside $700 million in contingency funds in his fiscal1979 budget for the aid, but sources in the government and Congress said the aid package will total $1.2 billion. 
Nearly $1 billion will go to increase the government's $2.2 billion Basic Educational Oppor­tunities Grants program, which is now targeted at low income stu­dents, the sources said. The rest will go in increased funding for the Guaranteed Student Loan program and campus work study programs. 
The package will raise the family income limit from $25,000 to $40,000 for students to receive loans with the government subsi­dizing the interest while they are still in school. 
' The president and Health, Edu­cation and Welfare secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr. will unveil the program today. 
Powell said the program will be targeted mostly at the middle class, but he did not specify what families Carter would include in the middle class. 
Most basic grants now go to students from families earning less than $10,000. 
The grant. drop to a minimum of $50 as income and assets increase. The cutoff point for a family of four with one child in college is roughly $17,500 in income. 
At present, some 2.4 million students attending college next fall are expected to receive basic grants averaging just under $900 apiece. 
For fiscal 1979, Carter has proposed $4 billion for existing programs to help college students and has proposed raising the maximum grant from $1,600 to $1,&00. He also has proposed making more students eligible. 
Between 1967 and 1975, Powell hurt. That's why I kill her. But I can't get her out of my head. She keeps coming back. That's why I hate her." 
Gates said the writer claimed to· have a particular item that would prove he is the strangler. Gates refused to identify the item but said if the writer did have it police would be inclined to believe he is really the killer. 
Police attribute 12 killings c. girls and young women since early September to the Hillside Strang­ler. All the victims were found nude, and several of them raped, in hillside areas of the northern suburbs. The most recent victim was killed Dec. 13. 
Bradley said at a news confer­ence Monday that whoever wrote the letter postmarked Jan. 19 ''indicates he is the strangler and wishes to surrender himself and a friend to the mayor's office. He also indicated he would forward a certain item after he received assurances for his safety from the mayor." 
Bradley said he "will take all the necessary precautions to ensure the complete safety of the actually involved individuals.'' 
Bradley, whu reari a statement and then declined questions, asked the writer to mail the undisclosed item to his office and "to address the envelope exactly as the original envelope was addressed." 
said, college costs have increased cost has climbed to about $2,000 a by about 71 percent, putting the year, Powell said. average cost of tuition, room and Democratic congressional lead-board for each student attending ers, who learned about the private school at more than $4,000 upcoming announcement during a year. breakfast with Carter at the White 
For each student attending a House told reporters the program public college or university, the would be substantial. 
~ The Knights 
· Men's · Hair Styling 
We are pleased to present our experts in men's hair styling and hair care. Use our private entrance at the Queen's Castle. 
~ 54533 Terrace Lane 
Tues. & Wed. 8:3D-6:30 Thurs. & Fri. 8:3Q-8:30 272-8471 Sat. 8:30-5:30 277-1691 
THIS COULD BE 
YOUR LUCKY DAY 
An Air Force ROTC scholarship can mean a lot when you need help 
with college finances. It pays tuition, books and lab fees ... and gives you $100 a month for other college costs. This could be just what you need to ·permit you to fine-tune your concentration on your studies. It could mean the difference between not making it at all, and going out on your own with 
a good, solid college degree. 
The Air Force is a great way to be on your own. As a commissioned of· 
ficer, you11 have responsibility with your very first job. You11 find an at­
mosphere ~ dedication, trust, and reliance, and you11 jump right into 
managing people and expensive resources. You11 have an excellent start­
ing salary-good financial security. 
It can all start with a decision to check out AFROTC. Find out how you · 
can get a scholarship. See what we offer, then show us what you can offer 
in return. It just might be our lucky day, too! 
Contact Capt. Davis at 283·6634. 
0 
ROTC 
Gateway too greot way of life. 
Participants were given tours of the news and production rooms, and 
the observer 

Free University registration opens 
the generai workings of the paper1 were expIameo. nyone who did,
. • A ' not visit the office last night but' wishes to work on any aspect of the paper should not hesitate to drop by the top floor of LaFortune. 

MONTGOMERY, A WORLD LEADER IN ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS, WILL CONDUCT INTERVIEWS ON THIS CAMPUS 
Thursday, 
February 16, 1978 
CAREER POSITIONS IN VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION SALES/MANAGEMENT WILL BE DISCUSSED WITH DEGREE CANDIDATES IN BUSINESS AND ENGINEERING 
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT MONTGOMERY AND OUR UPCOMING VISIT TO YOUR CAMPUS, CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE. 
montgomery moves people 
ontiiOiiiiii 


Montgomery [levator Company, Moline, Illinois 61265 Montgomery [levator Co .• Limited, Toronto, Ontario M983S5/ Offices in principal cities of North America 
[continued &om page 3] 
issues inherent in Notre Dame 
life. This course is not for 
people who don't like to contri­
but to discussions. 
Some of the courses charge a nominal fee for materials to be used in class. According. to its supervisor, Dan McCormick, the Free University offers participants a unique opportunity to learn fun and enjoyable things in a relaxed atmosphere. Any questions. about the Free University can be answered by Dan (1158) or Mary ( 4-1-4003). 
ND Concert Series continues 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will present Daniel Pressley, tenor, in a recital at 8:15 p.m. tonight in the Library Auditorium. The recital is open to the public without charge. 
Currently artist-in-residence at the University of Delaware, Pres­sley is well known in the Midwest as a recitalist and clinician. He has sung professionally with the Phila­delphia and Atlanta orchestras. He will be accompanied by Nancy Gamble Pressley, piano, from the piano faculty of the University of Delware. 
The next Concert Series event will take place February 22 featur­ing William Cerny, chairman of the Notre Dame music department. 

10 ••oburyer WedneScby, February 8, 1978 
University Of Notre Dame Special 

Come to a FREE SPEED READING LESSON Increase Your Reading Speed 50-1 00°/o 
Our Average Graduate Increases Their Reading Rate 9 Times And Comp~ehension 11 o/o. 
-------·--------·------------·-----..--··--·-------·-·-------:-----------.-----------------------------------------------------------.,...--------·
~--------­
-

. . ... . . ...... 
~ 
.. 
-~ ­
COMPARE AND DECIDE 

Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Inc. 
D.A.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your Partial refund of the price of the DYNAMIC READING SPEED or you will receive a FULL course if you fail. refund. 

Advanced Course No known advanced course known at this time. 
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to retake the Their graduates are required to pay 
course to extend their skills at no additional charge. a registration fee to retake the course. 
Our professional instructors are required to do extended NO exams given. research after the initial training period for further insight, and take written exams. 

-·----Our instructors are-required to take reading proficiency -----·····-NO reading--proficiency evatuattons given. evaluations. 
20.50% discount on books. NO discount on books. 

Tuition Assistance Payment PI an Contractual obligation with finance Charge. -· .··· -·······-··-·------· 'NO FINANCE CHARGE!t---··--·---· ··--·-· ---····-··------------~--~--:. -----·-··---·--------·-""-· ·-----···------·--·-·-··-· -·-------··-----­----·-·-----------,··-·-·• 
-ATTEND A FREE LESSON 




Wednesday, February 8 12:00 2:00 4:00 s·:oO ·-Thursday, February 9 12:00 2:oo·· 4:00 6:00 
All Meetings Held At The Center For Continuing Education Rm. 14 Downstairs 

"Knowledge is a reflection of reading" 
Dynamic -Reading Systems Inc. 
A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing totally new concepts . 
. 1721 CROOKS RD., TROY, Ml 48084 (313) 36S-1230 . 
... Copyright 1977 Dynamic Reading Systems Inc 
_.; 


I ' 
Wednesday, February 8, 1978 the observer 11 
SenatetobeginPanama Canal debate 
· WASHINGTON [AP] • Parha­mentary maneuvers by opponents
of the Panama Canal treaty rather 
. . ' · 
than desk poundmg oratiOns on tts 
. . . . ,
ments, will htghhght the Senates 
initial debate tomorrow.  
Because  of  this  the  Carter  
administration  will  be  relying  
heavily  on  the  skills  of  Vice  

AND NOW. WSJJD BRINGS YM TH£ 5P£O~L f)I#ING HALL HENU 
President Walter F Mondale a former senator who. is the ch~m­her's presiding officer. 
. · 
Last week Prestdent Jtmmy 
. . .
Carter went on nationwtde televts­
. . "fi 'd h t" t ton, uls~g a br rest e ~ aof th~ atrppetya 10~.pu .ttc s~poti t P
1
~a .ty'mf m~ s rali tea ~n t ;:,rf~~: oretgn po cy g a · TO#I&HT IS FDfJbiJIGf/T AT THC J)IJ.JING IIALL S ­Y£5 TONIGIHT TH£ DJIJIA/b HALLS WILL FEATVR£ FOoD 

: NOTICES + 
. 
+ R:.~s service to Chicago every Friday.
+..uses leave the circle at 6:05 for tickets 
+ "'"1 information call Shep. 8330.
+---~ 
+ MORRtS.~';Y STUDENT LOAN FUND 'ituder:. toans at one percent interest per
• 
month, due in thirty days. $20-$150. One 
• 
day wait. LaFortune basement, 11 :)5­
• 
12.15, M-F 
+ 
+ Interested in participating in a summer 
• P ro~·ect? Talk about it with the Eucharis­
+ 
tic issionairies, Wednesday and Thurs­

+ 
day In the Library concourse. + 

+ 
Typing done. Reasonable rates. Call + 8086 between 7and 9 pm. 


• 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM 
+ Selection II. linda's Letters, 287-4971. 
• 
• Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. + 
+ 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 

+ 232-Q746, Hours-8 am to 6 pm. + -----------------­

+ 
Anyone wishing to vote In Indiana's May 

+ 
election should contact Mo at 4-1-41101 

+ 
before spring break. •


+NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary 
+ Inc., Professional Typing Service IBM correcting selectrics. 85 cents per page
• 
minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you : want the best." 
+ 
Management work-study program this 

+ 
summer at Quantico, Virginia. Free 

+ 
transportation, room and board, books t and uniforms plus over $700 for six weeks. See the Marine officer selction 


team In LaFortune or the library Feb.: 7-10, 9 am to 4pm. 
: • 
: FOR RENT 
t t For rent next school year •• two nice 
houses, completely furnished, just a COuple of blocks from campus, good neighborhood, one four bedroom and one 
six bedroom with fireplace. Call 277­f 3604· 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: One blue ski glove (left) between the Rock and Alumni Hall. Lost on 
Thursday, Feb. 2, apx. 4:45pm. If found, please contact George at 1248. 
lOST: Set of keys by ACC ice rink, Honda key. Please call 277-Q222, 234-8379, or turn into rihk pro shop for Thelma. 
FOUND: A black wallet behind Lyons Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed are Ind. drivers license, work ID and library card. Call to identify, 1715. 
LOST: Round 14 K gold medal the size of aquarter. It has a sun face with a crack on the medal. Also a gold Italian horn. 
Lost Thursday am, Jan. 26, between Fischer and Dining Hall. Substantial reward. Call Mike 3010. 
FOUND: Silver wire rimmed glasses outside the ACC before Maryland game.Call1475. 
LOST: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat. night. Special X-Mas present.Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
LOST: Green and gold ski cap in cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
FOR SALE 
19.6 Coachman Travel Trailer; like. new 
condition; sleeps six; self contamed; II ft 6 272 8308
$3300. Ca a er pm. -· 
FULl COLOR canoN BOWL PICTU­
RES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
For sale: BIC 981 turntable only three 
months old. Comes wlthj Shure M91ED d d t
cartridge walnut base an us cover. 
Must sell. Call 3058. 
Month-old SR ·51 -II Texas Instruments calculator. Reg. $60, sell for $4S. 8976.t..John. 
Before the debate begins inr earnest Mondale must confront Sen Ja:Ues Allen D-Ala a leader 
· ' ...,
of the treaty opposttion and a master of Senate procedure. 
Battered familieS need help 
The Women's Shelter Advisory Committee of the YWCA of St. Joseph County is seeking volun­teers to work with victims of family violence with special emphasis on battered women and women in crisis: Volunteers will be trained to give emotional support and provide crisis intervention for victims. Some volunteers will be asked to provide transportation from an intervening place to the crisis shelter. ' 
Anyone who is interested in working with victims of family violence should contact the Wo­man's Center at the YWCA at 233-9491, extension 5, between 
8:30 a.m. and 3 p.m. Monday through Thursday. 
Allen announced yesterday that he wants Mondale to rule on a list of 17 questions, several of which 
t'ndt'cate that delay may become a pn'nct'pal weapon of the opponents 
· 
Actually, there are two treaties to be considered One would relinquish u.s. c~ntrol over the waterway to Panama in the year 2000. The other would assure the 
continued neutrality of the Canal Zone after that date. 
Several of Allen's parliamentary inquiries deal with procedures for limiting debate, an indication that opponents might try to use a filibuster to kill the treaties or, at least, delay a vote until closer to the November elections. 
Opponents reason that with the continuing heavy flow of mail in opposition to ratification, some votes may be swayed as senators approach their re-election cam­paigns. 
Treaties require a two-thirds majority for approval. If all 100 senators vote, 67 yes votes would be needed. By the same token, 34 senators could block ratification by voting against it. 

let your valentine know
HAVE A 

how you reallly feel 
PUT IT IN PRINT WITH AN Observer VALENTINE'S DAY PERSONAL 
9 

\) c:;;\J ~ 
0
10 words for s1 ° 

will be taken at the Observer office 3rd floor Lafortune • now thru Friday 11 am to 5 pm 
• 
r . . . ..a 
~······························································......................~ 
I •f • d d
c assI Ie a s 
WANTED 
NEED RIDE TO ILLINOIS STATE.......... 
Bloomington, normal area this weekend. 
Usa, 4-1-484'1 
Roomate wanted to share three bedroom house at Corby and Hill with two male students. Rent is $84 per month. Please call 288-2991. 
Need two student or GA Marquette 
tickets. Call Claire, 289-6533. 
Will pay big $$ for NO-Marquette tix. Call John, 3829. 
CLEVELAND ...Need riders for weekend of Feb. 1D-13. Tom, 277-1222. · 
Female wanted to share spacious 2 bedroom apt. $75 per month after 5pm. Call 289-8015. 
Wanted: Babysitter for three year old boy, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12·5 pm (if possible, 10 am -:5 pm). Near campus:
232-9541. · 
Desperately need two GA tickets to Marquette game. Call Ron, 3313. 
Need four tix to Marquette game. Will pay top$$. Call 277-5137. 
Need one or two female apt. mates. NO 
apts. Call 284-4953 or 288-8767. 
Need ride to Dayton Ohio weekend of Feb. 10·12. Call Dave 8303 or Tom, 8624. Need two GA Marquette tickets or my parents will disown me. Will pay big 
bucks and even throw in a date with mymother. Kevin, 8453. 1need 2 Marquette GA tickets real bad. 
George, 1248_ . 
Need five GA DePaul tix. $$$ Tony, 
1610, or 1608. 1264. 
Wanted: 4 Marquette tickets. Call Jim,
1419 
· Wanted: One Marquette student ticket.
Call Mike at 1424. 
Wanted: 4 DePaul tickets. Call 1153_ 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area after Wednesday. Call Val,7088. 
Wanted: weekend householder for local halfway house facility. overnight stay
required Small salary room and board 
d ·,1 · ' c I' 234 1049• 
an exce ent expenence. a' •
for further information. 
1need two GA or student tickets to the DePaul game. Call Louis at 1207. 
Need 4GA tickets to any home, weekend ba k tb 11 C 11 4 15745 
s e a game. a -• · Call
Need 2 Marquette GA tickets. 
Diane, 7883. 
Wanted: Marquette. tix, will pay
2
reasonable sum of$$. Call1612. 
Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your price. Call Russ at 8772. 
Need a babysitter? Available late afternoons and any evenings. Call Jill, _
283_1705 
Needed: 4 GA DePaul tix. Any price! 
Call Bonnie, 6239. 
Need ride to western PA Feb. 10or later. Will share expenses. Call Joe, 8688· Need ride to Columbus, Oh., Feb. 10_ C 11 M011 1312
a y, · 1am in dire need of two Marquette B·Ball t" Wll · 
1 c 111612 
tx. pay your pnce. a · 
Need DePaul tix. Call1043. 
Need up to 8GA tlx for Marquette game. 
Call 1m. 
Need 2or 4Marquette tlx. 850£or 8502. 
PERSONALS 
Need ride to Cleveland for Thumlay, Feb. 16 or Friday Fob. 11. Call Kathy, 

Dean: Fielding not Deep Throat 
(.;ookevme, Tenn. -John Dean ays Fred Fielding was not Deep hroat. 
Once former President Richard Nixon's staff counsel and later a witness against his administration, Dean told a Tennessee Tech audi­ence Monday night: "There is no way Fred Fielding could have been Deep Throat. I worked very closely with Fielding. I hired him, brought him to 'the White House. I don't think Fielding knew some of the things that Deep Throat knew." 
H.R. Haldeman, Nixon's chief of staff until his resignation in the midst of the scandal, has written a book detailing events surrounding the Watergate affair. According to some reports, he identifies Fielding as Deep Throat, ,an anonymous source of information used by the Washington Post to expose admini­stration wrongrl'ling. Fielding says he was not the source. 
• 

Dear Wubbie, + 
Happy 20th with all my love, + 

Rinky •• Martha, "sweet baby dear" D. + 22 _and over the hill but still a little+ dumpling. + Guess Who. t + 
Let Ringo and Jester serenade your+ valentine. $2.00. 8243, 8228. + + Bruce.....Keep your beard. + 
. Blanco don't shave your wtskers. + 
: 
Need four GA tlx to Marquette....SMC 4530....Betsy. + 

+ Haircuts, cheap styles, trims. SMC, + 4530. Betsy. + 
+ Desperately need Marquette tix. Call+
Dannie • SMC 5330 + 

-----------+ Need 4GA DePaul tix. Call Margie, SMC + 5336. + 
-:-.----------­Need 4 GA Marquette tix. Call Mary, + SMC • 5781. + 
+ 3T HOLY CROSS: Hope Friday is lots of + fun for everyone!! Be good and party + hearty!!! Love ya, . t Trlcta + + 
L.L. + Go jump in the river! P + 
. + Lmda, 
t 
Happy 22nd. We know that you are getting older -better, too, we hope.Love, Teri one, Terri two, The BibB, Late + 
Kate, and the Alum. + 
+Happy Birthday Bill! + WE LOVE YOU! + Luci, Lisa, Nano, Renee, Kathleen, Ann + and Angela. . t To the king of the oldest profession: +t ~~pe you had a happy birthday.....RKG t 
t 
TO THE LIFEGUARO!I Happy 2oth Birthday! The Alky, the reporter and tho Dab 

~~~....~~~~~~~~~~......~~~~....~~~~....~~·..~~~~~~..........~~~ 

12 tbeoburyer Wednes<by, February 8, 1978 
Irish swimmers rout Butler, Bonnies 
by Ted Robinson "They were itching to get into a South Bend's Adams High School, Sporta W rlter couple of meets. Finally, I let them established a varsity record for the have a couple of days off during the 1000-yard freestyle with a time of 
Notre Dame c;wimming coach blizzard, because I was afraid they 10:18.3 against Butler. The time Dennis Stark had his fingers would go stale." eclipsed John Sherk's 1973 varsity crossed last week. He was hoping One Irish swimmer who didn't go record by 11 seconds. that the severe winter weather stale was David Cambell. The Displaying his versatility, would hold off long enough to freshman from North Brunswick, Komora was barely touched out by enable his swimmers to compete in New Jersey had an outstanding Ed Fitzsimons in the 100-yard their home meets with Butler and weekend capturing first place in freestyle against St. Bonaventure St. Bonaventure. four events. in a time of 50.4. Komora figures 
Well, Stark's prayers were Cambell won the 200 and 500-to play a large part in any future answered as both Butler and St. yard freestyle events in both Irish swimming plans. Bonaventure made it to South meets. More importantly, he Fitzsimons, Notre Dame's Most Bend. And to complete a happy provides the Irish with strength in Valuable Swimmer the past two weekend, the Irish routed both the distance freestyle, an area in years, looked in top form against teams at the Rockne Memorial which the Irish have lacked St. Bonaventure as he won the SO Pool, downing Butler 66-38 and St. strength in the distance freestyle, and 100-yard freestyle events. Bonaventure 68-44. an area in which the Irish have Senior Joe Caverly also enjoyed a 
It had been almost two months lacked strength in recent years. He big weekend on the diving plat­since the Irish had been involved in was clocked in 1:51.9 and 1:52.1, forms as he swept to victory in all dual meet competition. Bad respectively, for the 200-yard free· three diving competitions. His weather had forced the postpone­style, and 5:04.7 and 5:09.1, score of 261.55 on the 1-meter ment of four consecutive meets, respectively, for the 500-yard free­board against St. Bonaventure was and Stark was wondering if some­style. only nine points off Mark Foster's body had something against him. ·Another freshman who had a big varsity record. 
"The kids were really starting to weekend for the Irish was John Other Irish winners in the St. 1 I 
~et on edge," Stark commented. Komora. Komora, a graduate of Bonaventure meet included McLaughlin in 200-yard butterfly and Andy Petro in the 200-yard breaststroke. Also, the 400-yard
Irish cagers remain fourth 
medley relay team of Lee, Petro, 

The top five teams in last week's and remained at No. 8. Louisville, Hartye and McLaughlin was Associated Press Top Twenty 14-3, beat Marshall 85-69 and victorious in a time of 3:51.1. college basketball ranking each Cincinnati 83-76 to remain ninth. The Irish will be on the road this held its position in this week's poll. Michigan State, 16-3, stumbled week, traveling to Detroit to face 
But the second 15 lost almost from seventh to No. 10 after losing Wayne State on Thursday and then half their games, resulting in a 71-66 to Indiana and 65-63 to to Huntington, West Virginia to wholesale shuffling fo teams. Michigan before defeating Indiana meet Marshal on Saturday. 
Kentucky, 16-1, beat Georgia 68-59. Two postponed meets have been 90-73 and Florida 88-61 and kept its DePaul, 18-2, moved up from rescheduled. The December 9 No. 1 ranking with 1,140 points. 13th to 11th as the Blue demons meet against Cleveland State will 
Arkansas, now 21-1, beat Texas beat Creighton and Oral Roberts. be held on February 21 and the 75-71 and Rice 69-48 and got 879 Texas, 18-3, beat Houston and TCU January 20 meet against Bowling points to remain No. 2. Third­but lost to Arkansas and remained 
Green will be held on February 14. The Notre Dame swimmers captured two more victories this pastranked Marquette beat Penn State at No. 12. 
Both meets will be in the Rockne weekend and now must prepare for Wayne State on the road 73-60, then was extended to two Virginia, 15-J, beat Maryland Memorial Pool beginning at 4 p.m. tomorrow. 
overtime periods before defeating but lost to Wake Forest and 
Monte Towle>====================::::=~=·=·=~=~=~=~=;=~=~=·=~=·=~=;=·=:===:=;=~=:::::=~===:=~=~=·=~=,:=:,:==~====:==========~=================;===<:::=======·=·====>>===============================::======================
south Carolina 69-66. The dropped two notches to 13th. Warriors, 17-2, garnered 836 Wake Forest, 15-3 and unranked a points. week ago, beat Virginia and Duke The Wildcats collected 52 of 57 and jumped all the way to 14th. 
Star Gazing

fust place ballots cast by the Illinois State, 18-2, did not play 
nationwide panel of sports writers but the Redbirds jumped from 19th 
and broadcasters. Arkansas re­to 15th. 
ceived two first-place votes, No. 4 Rounding out the Top Twenty =:=:=:::::::::::=:=:::::::==:==~=:::::::::::::::=:::==:========:==:=:=========================:=======:=====:=:=====:=====================:=================:===============:=:==================================Towle's Rags
Notre Dame got two and sixth­were: Florida State, 16-3 and 15th Tonight's scheduled basketball ment on the court, but at the their audience to carry one of the place New Mexico received one. a week ago; Detroit, 18-1 and 
game with Holy Cross has been expense of the defensive team's former games. The scheduling of Notre Dame, "16-3, received 723 unranked last week; Syracuse, 15-4 cancelled. Apparently, the team is strategy. Why not just put the five sports on network television rates points as the Irish beat LaSaJJe and 18th a week ago; unranked unable to get out of Worcester, second rule into effect at all as no exception to any other king of 95-90 and Davidson 100-76. UCLA, Nebraska, 18-3 and 17-4 Provi­Mass. because of the heavy snow times even when the team with programming designed to achieve beat stanford 101-64 and California dence, which was No. 16 last week. 
conditions that prevail in the the ball decides to freeze out near the best ratings possible. 
94-75 to improve its record to 16-2. 
Northeast. The game can not be midcourt as Marquette did? I'll Even the, NBC-TVS often gam­The Bruins received 566 points. 
played Thursday night either be-talk in more detail about that in my bles in the pursuit of fairness TJ New Mexico, 17-2, beat cause of similar reasons and a next column, hopefully. other schools by carrying regicnal
Cross cancelled

Wyoming 94-91 and Colorado State 
Friday night game is also out of the A recent wire story appeared in telecasts in trying to satisfv ..·ore 91-82 and moved up from lOth. The Holy Cross game scheduled question. The Crusaders are set to newspapers concerning the nu-geographical portions of tt : vie···­North Carolina beat Mercer 73-70 for tonight has been cancelled. The host Boston College on Saturday. merous appearances of the Notre ing audience. And \\i!r: thetr and virginia Tech 101-88 but lost to Crusaders are unable to make the An away game the night before Dame basketball team on national coverage of the NCAA playoffs,Furman 89-83 and feJJ from sixth to trip because of poor weather condi­would be asking a little too much of television. Several college coaches every Division I school in the No. 7 with a 18-4 record. tions. A university official said them. at other schools have voiced com-country has a fair chance of getting Kansas, 18-3, beat Oklahoma there are no plans to make up the The Holy Cross game was to be plaints that the Fighting Irish are television exposure and profits.
State 83-65 and Oklahoma 69-68 contest at this time. 
carried by Home Box Office tele-getting more than their fair share But for reasons I just gave, some vision as well as Channel 27(Wor-of national exposure. One such schools appear more than others. cester) with Bob Cousy handling complaint came down Alabama If a team is good enough and can the color for them. It is not known way. prove a strong following, then whether a suitable time will be Unlike collegefootball telecasts, they're bound to be on television. 
settled on for rescheduling the there is currently no law limiting Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps contest. One possible date would the number of national appear-even admitted that Notre Dame be on or around March 1 as Holy ances a school's basketball team doesn't always get the best talent Cross will have completed its can make. These other coaches available with all of their television regular season games by then and fear that schools such as Mar-exposure. Neither does UCLA, Notre Dame will have a few days quette, UCLA and Notre Dame Marquette or even North Carolina between the Marquette and Dayton gain advantages in recruiting high and Kentucky for that matter. games. I guess we'll be lucky if we school players because of their After all, you don't see Albert 
*Observer 
Sports 
even get to see Ronnie Perry and television fame. At first thought, King, Gene Banks or Earvin John­company this year. A replacement that argument may sound valid, son on any of those teams. So on our schedule might actually but it isn't. Alabama, what's your next com-come about. How about Indiana First of all, a team like UCLA or plaint going to be? State? Marquette relies on regional talent One final item. Who's going to 
Sunday's national television for filling its rosters in most coach the football St. Louis Cardi-
Notre Dame thrashes Valpo 
game between the Marquette War-instances. They would do just as nals next year? Officially, Don 
Friday Notre Dame will send its Notre Dame is coming off a big riors and the South Carolina Game-well in the recruiting wars without Coryell is still coach. But he has top two performers in each track win, a 113-18 thrashing of Val­cocks figured to go into double making many shows on the tube. requested to be released from his and field event to West Lafayette, paraiso last Friday evening at the overtime. NBC commentator AI Besides, they've both had great contract. Well, he hasn't been IN for the Indiana Big State Track ACC. McGuire had stated before the teams long before television began released yet even though the Cards and Field Meet. Irish assistant "We were well pleased with our game that regulation just might carrying so many games each year have locked him out of his own coach Ed Kelly is confident that performance against Valpo,'' Kelly end in a tie which it did. And at the and basketball fans like to see them office and given him permission to Notre Dame will be well­summarized. "Some individual beginning of both overtimes, I saw, play. That's the second part of the talk to the Chicago Bears. represented in the meet. performances worth noting were for the first time ever, a team get argument. Network· television's Coryell was tabbed the leading 
"Each school is permitted only Curt Spieler, who grabbed two first slapped with technical fouls for not first priority, and rightly so, is to candidate for the New Orleans two entries per event so the best in place finishes in the 440 and the forcing the play on defense when generate revenue and that means Saints' position, but that void has Indiana will be competing,'' points 300, and Jeff Anderson, who also the team with the ball 'froze' the showing the games which draw the been occupied by Dick Nolan. so out Kelly. "Indiana University is took two firsts in the long jump and ball out in the five second area. best audiences. NBC-TVS is still while Don is back home in bed with favored and rightly so. They're a the 60-yard dash." Gamecock Coach Frank McGuire fighting hard to keep college the flu, it has been mentioned that real powerhouse. Purdue is also Kelly also cited the performan­was obviously upset with the basketball competitive against Michigan State football Coach Dar­very strong. Ball State and Indiana ces of pole vaulter Perry Stow, who technicals called against his Game-other network programming. ryl Rogers is in line for Coryell's State have excellent programs so it. recorded a vault of 15 feet, and cocks. If they know that a Notre Dame -job. Of course, the Cardinals deny should be a superb meet.' • Arnie Gough, who notched a One can't blame him for being UCLA game or a Marquette -such gossip and say that Coryell is 
'We have proven that we have first-place finish in the 60-yard upset although the referees were Nevada-Las Vegas matchup is go-still their man. That may sound 
talented performers," continues hgih hurdles event and two second­correct in calling them. It's the ing to rate higher than an Alabama-contradictory because it is contra­
the Irish assistant, ''and I expect us place finishes in the 60-and rule that is at fault. The rule is Tennessee game than they have a dictory. Tune in tomorrow, same 
• t· to do wen." -··.•.•, ~yard <lash• ..; . .........,.. ~."".". designed to maintain baJJ move-responsibility to theniSelves and bat-time same•.....•. 




