

--~--.,.---.--.,.....-~-­

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 86 Monday, Febru!lry 20, 1978 
Nemerov provides comic-relief 
by Mari.u UUcay stamps adorned with kings and "This talks about the misery of the Senior Staff Reporter presidents? That we may lick their world, the implacability of nature, 
"A sandwich and a glass of beer hinder parts and thump their and says that the only thing we can might cure these ills, if only boy's heads." do about it is sing songs and tell and girls were bars and grills," Nemerov received repeated ap­stories.'' 
!Howard Nemerov told a sizeable plause for several of his comic He admitted that the bulk of his ; crowd in his Friday evening pres­poems. "Extract From Memiors" work has increased considerably
' 
' entation for the Sophmore Literary related one diary entry written with since his initial speaking engage­jFestival. coal on a cave wall by the man who ments. "When I first was invited to "It's short, so you can take it invented the wheel. When the get up on my hind legs and read my home with you and mull over it," celestial powers asked him what its verses, I thought I'd have to do a he added. significance for mankind would be, lot of fast thinking and slow talking 
Poet and critic, Nemerov amused he replied, "I made the damn thing in between to stretch out the his audience with his insislJts on go around. You fellows figure out verses," he remarked, adding, the literary profession. "Being a what it's for." "Now the only respectable thing writer, you're involved in a small The poet described "Pockets" as about reading my poetry is that it's business. By the time you've been objects ''generally around the ero­like waiting for a bus. If you miss at it 40 years, you know everybody genous zones" that hold those one, the next one will come along, in it. So my motto is, if you want to "sad and vagrant little coins that and then the next one...." survive the critics, you have to are only passing through." He Besides writing poetry, Nemerov outlive them," he stressed. drew chuckles from his listeners has written essays, short stories. 
He continued by asking a series with "Fiction," a poem that ap­and reviews !hat have been pub­of poetic riddles. The most popular praised the familiar situation of a lished in national r "'gazines and one, '"Power· to the People,"· crowded elevator in which all the volumes of his own m .. £erial. He is posed the question: "Why are the people "look up with the rapt and also the author of two novels, The stupid look of saints in paintings ... Melodramatists and Frederlgo, of until their number's up, and they the Power of Love. Born in New
Closes SLF 
get up." York City, Nemerov attended the Continuing on a more melancholy Fieldston School and Harvard. He tone, Nemerov read a poem about is presently a professor at Wash­
Ellison denounces television 
aging entitled "The West Ap­ington University. proaches" whose narrator admits, Nemerov's reading was preceded
by PhD Cacldey children, 6 years of age or under, until you tum into a slug." 
"I know now how life grows ghostly by students' musical adaptations of Senior Staff Reporter who don't want their parents to Calling television writing a "filthy at the close, as any man fades into two of his poems. Soprano Lisa hear bad words to lead them from habit" he had given up, Ellison every man." Easley sang an arrangement of "A In an "R-rated performance"on the auditorium." claimed no anovnt of money could This somber mood was also Primer of the Daily Round." Jim Saturday night, writer Harlan "Nixon is the only dirty word I persuade him to write for tele­reflected in "These Words Also," Johnston, the arrangement's com­Ellison spoke about his work, his know and I try not to use that one vision. 
which captured a moment in a poser, accompanied her on the hatred for television and read two very often. Words are words for "I was as good as you can get garden when a teacher reads a piano. Lisa Jaquez read "The Blue unpublished stories to a large and me,"he said. and what I wrote was letter from the mother of a student Swallows,'' to an original musical very responsive audience in The author of 900 short stories garbage, "Ellison stated, explain who committed suicide. Nemerov composition by Carol Shuback. Her Washington Hall. and 32 books, Ellison refused to ing that he had won the Writer's added a line of optimism with accompanists were Shuback, piano, Ellison, who sprinkled his talk with categorize his type of writing. Guild Award for best screenplay "Somewhere," commenting, and Lisa Liu and Kathy Dunbar,four-letter words, gave the final "I don't understand this obsession three times--more times than any flutes. 
presentation of the week-long with what the label is. I guess I'm other writer. 
Sophomore Literary Festival. Sit­a fantacist. I know I've never He said he wrote first for series, ting on tbe -steps of the stage written science fiction," he stated. grew disgusted with that facet of during much of his presentation, Ellison, who wrote television television, then mo' ed to specials Ellison acted like a comedian, screen plays for 15 years, slammed and movies. He grew disenchanted cracking jokes and firing back TV as ''the most insidious opiate again, and created his own series repartees to '1\Udience questions. the world has ever invented." and finally decided to stop writing 
"This is an R-rated perform­"The TV is evil," Ellison said. "It television altogether ance,' 'Ellison said. at the beginning is constrUcted to tum you mind into "All my experiences with that of his talk. "I urge any small a puree of bat sh~-. You watch it miserable glass tit were unpleas­
ant," the writer exclaimed. Ellison's animosity stems from his feeling that watching television is a


stalem 
non-participatory act. He stated that reading a book or listening to radio programs both require imagi• 
admin··l!!~••« ;•;••:•·······~ 
nation. ''A writer just gwes you 
clues,"he said. 
"Tum them off, that the only thinJ! I can say," Ellison advised. "I hadfive sets in the house. I got rid ofall but one, and that one is on once a week." 
Ellison made a number of deni­grating comments about Richard Nixon during the course of his talk, comparing Nixon to the Marvel Comic book character the Hulk. Ellison said both were perfect examples of psychotic personali­ties. He also claimed TV was Nixon's power base. 
When asked why he did not unite his writing and his liberal views on politics, Ellison resr<Jnded that to do so would be to 1..:reate propagan­da. "The only time a politically inspired work remains art is when the creation transcends the mess­age,"he explained. An example Ellison used was Picasso's painting by Tom Ford · record was 2-8, and the staff sent "Guernica"which protests against him issues of MAD to cheer him a Spanish Ci..W atrocity, and war in MAD Magazine Associate Editor up. To this day, Hornung's picture general. Jerry DeFuccio entertained a is the only human being on the 
Someone in the audience asked if gathering in the Library Lounge MAD office walls." art and life were separate, and Saturday afternoon with comments Later, he described the staff as a Ellison answered that he saw a on humor, the immortal Alfred E. harmonious, fraternal group, "the difference between reflecting life in Neuman, the MAD staffs globe­usual gang of idiots...made up of art and writing propagand­trotting antics, and, surprisingly, a retired altar boys and Jews for a for a cause. unique tie between the magazine Notre Dame. Now you have 
"I don't belong to the company and the University of Notre Dame. subway alumni and limousine of Jews,just because I'm a Jew. I . "The MAD offices have long alu_mni '." One staffer, he con­don't ~long to the fraternity of · been a Notre Dame stronghold," fi<ted, won't go on a Saturday in 
men, just because I'm a man. I'm : DeFuccio related. "One year when autumn until he hears the outcome Paul Hornung was at ND their [CWU•.ct•,..ll
[Contlm.ct • .-ae 7] 



~-------------~ -~-~-­
~------------~-------­
the observer Monday, February 20, 1978 · 
News Briefs-----.De Fuccio speaks on humor1 
Muriel Humphrey turns 66 
WASHINGTON -Muriel Humphrey goes to the Senate on her 66th 
birthday today, her bearing, like her name, a reminder of the man 
she replaces. The Humphrey chin is still up. As husband Hubert 
did in his final months, Muriel Buck Humphrey has found "a great 
deal of sympathy coming my way'' in her own time of trial. But true 
to his style and final wishes, she has come to march, not mourn. 
Already, in five days at the Senate before last week's recess, she 
has resettled the office staff, taken her place on two key 
committees, co-sponsored four bills and two amendments to the 
Panama Canal treaties, and huddled with the leadership over 
strategy for relighting her husband's legislative torch., 
WEATHER 
Cloudy today, tonight, and tomorrow, with a chance of light snow. 
High today in the low 20's. Low tonight near ten. High tomorrow in 
the low 20s. 
On Campus Today _ ____, 
10 am-noon rector's workshop, "utilizing the hall j-board educa­tionally," cce. 
12 noon discussion, by faculty on wolff's "understanding rawls," memorial library. 
12-6 pm turntable clinic, spon. by services commission, the.nazz 
12:15 
pm teaching/learning lecture series, "leading group discussions," dr. ruhe, spon. by educational media office, 242 o'shag. for teaching assistants and grai::l students 

12:15 
pm mass, every day during lent, fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom 


12:30-1 pm movie, "equal protection clause," spon. by women's rights association, rm. 105 law school. 
1:30­
3:30 pm workshop, j-board chairman and members, cce 
5:30 pm meeting, circle k club, south dining hall faculty dining room 
6:30pm junior night, spon. by college of a&l, library aud. 
6:30pm track meet, nd vs northwestern, home 
6:30-8 pm judo and self-defense class, new members welcome this week, spon. by nd judo club, ace wrestling pit · 
7 pm basketball, st. mary's college vs nd--angela athletic facility 
7:20pm duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculty and staff duplicate bridge, university club 
8 pm lecture, "performance conventions in beethoven's early works," prof. eva badura-skoda, univ. of vienna, spon. by music dept. 115 crowley recital hall 
9-11 pm nazz, grateful dead nite with mike tsubota and rex delcamp, basement of Iafortune 
eveningBl meeting, groundskeepers rights coalition, Iafortune alcove, 1st floor 
TUESDAY MORN 
.. 

6:40-8 am wsnd 640 am, mike ridenour and kerry rhoa 
The Air Force ROTC Two Year Program 
Are you really as good as you Training to look us over (whilethink you are? we're looking you over) so youWant an opportunity to test your can decide if Air Force ROTC and capabilities? a commission as an Air Force If you are a college student with officer is for you. No obligation if two academic years remaining. you decide not to enroll In Air Force ROTC has an opportu­AFROTC. Summer field training nity for you! We'll pay your way positions are being filled right to and from a field training now!! 
encampment (somewhere in A­Contact Capt. Davis, Tel: 283­
merica), pay your salary and 6634 or v~ll him on campus at. expenses while yo1J are there, the Air Force ROTC offices. and give you six weeks at Field 
Air Fwt,"e lttTt~ 
t;ateway fe a t;reat \Yay ef Life 
reontlnued &om page 11 
of the Notre Dame football game. 
"How could you be with a woman, 
thinking about Notre Dame's 
loss?" DeFuccio reasoned. 
DeFuccio began the session by 
passing around samples of original 
panels by MAD artists. Several 
were by Norman Mingo, who he 
said is still painting Alfred E. 
Neuman at age 85. 
MAD has 100,000 subscribers, but DeFuccio added that millions more read the magazine. "We're the darling of the newstands," he said. The mngazine staff consists of three editors, one publisher, tow are directors, two girls "who answer the phone," and a rotating staff of contiibuting writers and artists. 
Ifsome artides tend to be a little repetitious, it's because many of the staffers have been doing MAD for years, he noted, adding that there is disappointingly little new material. 
DeFuccio said that due to a three-month lag between inception of an idea and actual publication, they must try to treat subjects that are "most familiar to the most people." The delay in printing can especially be a problem with the movie take-offs, which DeFuccio · described as the "Keystone of each issue . " Staff members try to see advance screening of the films, but the film studios aren't always cooperative. They then must decide whether the movie will be popular enough to warrant spoof­ing it in MAD. In that respect they have been fortunate, although they have suffered through "few bombs." 
Despite MAD's popularity, DeFuccio said that he is not satisfied with its current form, "MAD has ceased to grow. When you're winning, why change the game plan?" He would like to see the magazine get more sophisti­cated. "I hate when MAD does take-offs of TV sitcoms." They only have one gimmick, he argued: "people are in a home setting, and one gets exasperated. They don't reflect human nature." 
Two decades ago, DeFuccio explained, humor was at the expense of the other guy, what he called "kick 'em in the belly, Kelly humor." It has evolved into "truth humor," which is more personal and meaningful. "People recog· nize the situation, they've lived through it, so they laugh," he noted. "Cerebral humor," made popular by the comic strip "Doonesbury," is also on the rise ("You don't understand it, but since Gary Trudeau wrote it, it's funny.") 
The MAD staff prides itself on its world-wide jaunts. The first of these took place twenty years ago, when publisher Bill Gaines decided to send the entire staff (''twenty­five MADmen") to Haiti. Before they left, they checked their files to see if they had any subscribers there. They did have one lone subscriber,whose subscription ran out concurrently with their visit. Upon their arrival in Haiti the staff rented nine jeeps, hoisted a MAD banner, drove to the subscriber's house, walked up to the door, handed him a renewal slip, and asked for their .$2.00. 
"We like to do things in a big way," DeFuccio deadpanned. 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson layout Staff: Steve Mayer, Tom Behney, Jerry Jarzynka, Sue Wuetcher, Bill Devitt, John Cassidy Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Bob Brink Typists: Mark Rust, Anne Giere, Theresa Richeson, Carole Erkmann Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie Copy Reader: Dahrling Debbie Ad Layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Leo C. Hansen Which lamppost tonight, Hubiel 
The Observer Ia publlthed Mon­d•y through Frkl•y except durtn1 eum end vecetton perloclt. Tl)eObterver 11 publlllled by the atudenh of Notre D•me end S•lnt Mery's Coltqe. Subscrtptlona mey be purdteaed for 120 per.,..,. (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 4US6. s-nd deaa pnt..e p•ld, Notre D•me, lndten•, 4US6. 
The Oblerver 11 • member of tile Auodeted Preas. All re!fro· ductlon rt1hta .,.. reserved. 
9 Days and 8 Nights in Florida's Miracle strip. Freshwater Pool, the Wann Gulf Waters, and the Glistening White Sands. 
Free Transportation 
\ Free Entertainment \ \ free Party Enroute \~~.~\, Fr~e Weiner Roasts on the Beach 
\ ~ D1scount. 18 Hole Golf Course \ free Beer Party Happy Hour Daily \ Plus Parties on the Beach Euery Night 
't Be left Out In The ~~~~-Reserve Your Seat NOW! .-..~T...,.......... : Pat O'Connell 283-3556 
Monday, February 20,1978 the Ob&eryer' 3, 
Roots program 
SU Director to be ·nominated to be offered from field of six applicants 
by Rob Cymbaluk 

In an effort to acquaint students with the city of South Bend and its dependence on its many diverse "They have to be aggressive in dealing with problems and have a wide enough scope to deal with and stay ·On top of all the commis­sions." 
SUBriefs 
The Student Union announced Friday that singer Jackson Browne will appear in concert at the ACC on April 1. The concert will be sponsored by the Student Union in cooperation with Concerts West. 
SU Director Tom Gryp has drafted a proposal dealing with the type and quality of entertain­ment that should be presented on theNotre Dame campus. The proposal stemmed from the contro­versy over the Dec. 3 Cheech & Chong concert and will be sub­mitted shortly for discussion by the SU Steering Committee. 

borhood Roots program will be held on Sunday, March 5. Focusing on the smaller neighborhoods as 
building blocks of the city, the Roots program will offer students the opportunity to become involved in an experiential learning situation and to actually participate in the ethnic traditions of a community. 
According to publicity director, Kevin Walsh, the goal of the project is "to show that the heart of South Bend's strength and unity as a city lies in the successful inter­action of the diverse entities of which it is comprised.'' Stressing its uniqueness, Walsh points out that the program enables the participants to explore ''the racial, cultural, and ethnic distinction of each neighborhood along with the factors that comprise the self-iden­tities of the communities." 
Responsible for coordinating the project is a committee composed of both professors and students and is headed by Fr. Don McNeill. direc­tor of the Center for Experiential Learning, and Prof. Tom Broden, . director of the Institute of Urban Studies. 
Although similar to last seme­ster's Roots program, the upcom­ing event presents several new features. Cars are scheduled to leave the Library Circle at 2:30 and will proceed on a tour of various neighborhoods. In addition to the students attending, the drivers will be members of Notre Dame faculty and staff and will also be provided the learning experience. Upon arrival to St. Adalbert's Parish, the participants will be treated to a tour of the church and a performance by the St. Augustine's Church Choir. The program will then be high­lighted by a host of speakers, including McNeill, Broden, Prof. John Kromkowski, Prof. John Roos. Prof. Tom Swartz, Olga Viila and Ben Johnson who "wiii offer some reflections and supplemen­tary information about the South Bend Community and neighbor­hoods in general." 
Directly following will be a traditional Polish wedding feast and a discussion concerning further opportunities• for student involve­ment in urban settings. Cars will return to the Library Circle at 7:15 that evening. 
Registration for the tour wiii take place in the dining halls from Sunday, Feb. 26, through Tuesday, Feb. 28. In addition, pre-registra­tion will be held for underclassmen in certain classes. The registration fee is $2.00 and all are encouraged to attend the Roots program. Those who purchase tickets and decide not to participate are asked to contact Theresa at 7802. Staff members wiiling to drive should contact Mary Beth at 3351. 
Computing 
Center announces 
class schedule 

The University of Notre Dame Computing Center has announced its schedule of spring classes. 
The noncredit, tuition-free cll!sses will meet from 3:30-4:30 
p.m. in Room 115 ofthe Computing Center. Preregistration is required for groups. 
The schedule includes: 
--"Introduction to Job Control 

Language (JCL)," Feb. 20. 
--"Program Utility Routines for Tape (PURn--A Rap Session," Feb. 23. 
--''Debugging Techniques,'' 

Feb. 28 and March 2 and 7. 
--"Introduction to Command 

Procedures (CLISTs)," March 9, 14 
and 16. _ 
For further information, contact Stephen J. McNally, Computing Center, 283-2811. 
Liturgy center announces 

training program 
The University of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral Liturgy has announced a training program, "Preparing Liturgies for Children and Young People," to be held on campus this week. 
The program wiii emphasize the liturgical ministry of the person wh must assist young people from first grade through junior high school to celebrate their faith. Dr. John Barry Ryan, associate director of the Center, said. "Our intention is to give those who work with children an understanding of the liturgy and its adaptation to chil­ren that will assist them in plan­ning their liturgies with con:l;i­dence.'' 
Jean Marie Hiesberger, noted specialist in children's liturgies, will present a series of illustrated lectures on the relationship beween liturgical celebration and children's developmental stages. Associate editor at the Paulist Press, Hies­berger is coauthor of six liturgy resource kits, "Let Us Pray,'" and general editor of the "Come to the Father" series of religious educa­tion curricula as well as the five-year curriculum program. "Family." 
Rev. John Gallen, S.J .. director of the Center, and staff member Sister Kathleen Hughes, R.S.C.J., wiii explore the theological, pas­toral and liturgical implications of the liturgy. Planning and prepara­tion of model liturgies for children will be supervised by Ryan and Father Thomas Jones, C.S.C., of St. Joseph's parish, South Bend. 
Froi further information and 
registration, contact the Notre 
Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy, 
283-8801. 
Election meeting for CILA officers 1 
For those interested in the CILA (Community of the International Lay Apostolate) officer elections, there will be a general meeting in the Library Auditorium on Sunday, Feb. 26 at 7 p.m. 
Anyone considering an officer position should write a brief state­ment on their qualifications and what they want to accomplish in CILA. These statements should be submitted to the Student Activities office in LaFortune by Tuesday, Feb. 21 and they will appear in the Feb. 23 newsletter. 
for editor-in-chief is Wed., March I. Any ND-SMC student 
interested in running must submit a resume and contact Marti (1715) by Wed., Feb. 22. 
"I like the Steering Committee quite a bit," Gryp said. "I was chairman of the Board of Directors and it was a clumsy group," he continued, ''because it was difficult to get the student body president vice-president and treasurer together for a meeting." Gryp remarked that since everyone on the Steering Committee is a Union member, there is "no confusion about ~hat is going on." 
Discussing the type of person the Steering Committee will be looking for to fill the SU director's spot, Gryp observed that "We'd like a person who can rise above the arguments and the daily problems that crop up.' 
"The Student Union director has to make sure everyone is doing their job," Gryp stated, "and that there is almost a constant stream of 
events being scheduled. You can 
tell by talking to someone if they 
have a broad outlook," he added. 

Pollard edits volume on virology perspectives 
The tenth volume of the "Per­spectives in Virology" series edited by Dr. Morris Pollard, chairman and professor of microbiology at the University of Notre Dame and director of Lobund Laboratory, has been published by Raven Press, New York. 
The current volume includes 13 papers reviewing significant deve­lopments in virology. It reports the first confirmed propagation of hepatitis B viral antigen, which could revolutionize methods of obtaining antigen for use in screen­ing blood for transfusions. It also reports · on new human virus diseases, isolation of five human wart viruses, an assessment of viral insecticides which could replace chemical insecticides, a genetic analysis of virulence in influenza viruses and other subjects. 

The series recounts the proceed­ings of the Gustav Stern Symposia on "Perspectives in Virology" held every two years. The most recent meeting was held in February 1977. 
A specialist in virology, epide­miology and pathology, Pollard has been editing the series since it began in 1959. 

Lenten Morning Prayer 
• 7:30am Monday -Friday Sacred Heart Church baptistry
• 

(near the lady Chapel) 

~*The Observer 
~n indepenent student news~aper servins notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol;cies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo "Notre Dame Productio11 Manager Karen Chiames lnd.46556 
The first call I made was to Bob 
Monday, February 20, 1978 
Simon who Jives in Monsey. Mrs. Simon answered the phone. "He's outside. I'D call him." Ten minutes later, Simon got on the phone huffing and puffing. "What are you doing?" I asked 
"Shoveling the II&!lilt/# driveway so I can get the car out."

~P.O.BOXQ~ him. 
"You're not going to drive to­
Think of the 
possibilites 
De...Edlton 
I would like to congratulate the University of Notre Dame for their most recent and significant contri­bution to JWUJkind. This latest achievement most certainly sur­passes the recent efforts of our nationally-ranked football team, and I dare say that even Fr. Nieuwland's discovery of synthetic rubber has been put to shame by this most momentous discovery. 
I speak, of course, of the mind-boggling time warp which has been firmly established in our very own O'Shaughnessy Hall. It seems clear that one can virtually add three minutes to one's life by simply entering that hallowed place. The world is surely in debt to this fine institution for an additional three minutes of time. Think of the possibilities! 
••Arne SalmiUIIellllll'' 

Unique study opportunity 
Dear Editor: 

Have you considered spending next year in Japan? Freshmen and sophomores are eligible to study at Sophia University in Tokyo through the Notre Dame Foreign Studies Program. Since all classes will be conducted in English, prior knowledge of Japanese is not required. 
The Tokyo Program offers a unique opportunity to those people who would like to extend their college experience beyond the bounds of the structured academic atmosphere of Notre Dame. Not only will your understanding of a foreign country increase, but pas­sing over to another culture can give you greater insight into the culture of America, the weaknesses that are ignored or the good points that are often taken for granted. The program is definitely not for everyone, but those who do partici­
.pate can enjoy the Japanese life­style in a way no tourist could. 
Sophi!l University is located in the center of Tokyo, a city which combines the mystery of the East with the sophistication of the West in an exciting way. Spread through­out the city are many entertain­ment and cultural districts where you will find Japanese theatre, western films, discos, museums, traditional Japanese gardens and just about anything else you could imagine. You can explore the sidestreets of Tokyo anytime With­out fear, for it is truly a safe city. In short, your campus is all of Tokyo. The rest of Japan is easily 
accessible from Tokyo. You can ski 
in the Japanese Alps, go swimming 
in the Pacific Ocean, see ancient 
shrines and temples ·in Kyoto and 
Nara, and climb the beautiful Mt. 
Fuji. Japan's climate is as varied as 
America's. And from Tokyo, 
extended trips are possible to such 
places as Korea, Taiwan, and Hong 
Kong. 

Many students express concern 
that they will not be able to afford a 
year overseas. Hewever, there is 
no additional expense involved, 
and there are ample opporutnities 
to earn additional spending money 
by teaching English. 

There will be a short organiza­
tional meeting tonight at 7:30 in the 
basement of LaFortune. Any inter­
ested students should attend; there 
is no committment. 
Joha Carpenter 
Mark Gallogly 
Paul Vostl 
Another ND 
hypocrisy? 

Dear Editor: 
Last week the Notre Dame 
community was confronted with the 
possibility of yet another hypocrisy 
here on campus in the form of Paul 
Hellmuth, Secretary of the Univer­
sity's Fellows, the group of highest 
ranking officials at Notre Dame. 
John Marks, a former State Department employee and co­author of The CIA ad the Cult of Intelligence, stated in a talk on campus recently that ·Hellmuth served from the 1960s-1974 as head of Anderson Security Consultants, Inc., a firm allegedly_ owned and operated by the CIA. Marks said the firm conducted illegal surveil­lance of domestic anti-war and civil rights activists. while disguising itself as a private industrial securi­ty consultant. 
In other words, Hellmuth lent his name and respectability as a front behind which these illegal activities took place. When contacted by The Observer, Hellmuth refused to comment on the exact nature of his firm's business and said he didn't want to discuss the allegations which had been made. 
The matter raises serious ques­tions. H the allegations are true (and the evidence that they are is strong), why is Paul Hellmuth still on Notre Dame's Board of Fellows? Are the Fellows and Board of Trustees aware of the possibility of his CIA connections? 
I feel that the high-ranking University officials should be ad­dressing these important questions publicly. But each of us -students, staff, faculty -has the responsibili­ty to challenge this situation. 
The groundskeeper issue has been reminding us that Notre Dame is not the bastion of morality and justice which we sometimes think, and now this situation pre­
seriously folks,=*l;::;:=i;::i:i;:::;;;j;:::=================:======:====::=====:=:==============: 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-chief 
Coping during
Martha Fanning IIAanaging Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor 
the Blizzard 
Jean Powley St. Mary's i;ditor Katie Kerwin News Editor 
:============<=======================================================================:::=====art buchwald
Barb langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor jl{)an Fremeau Photo Editor leo Hansen 
"It's terrible," he said. "I tried to make the 3:45 from Penn Station but it was canceled. So I had to get a room here. I never lived through anything like this. Wait a minute, there's room service." He went off the phone and I heard him say to someone, "Honey, did you want red wine or white wine with your chicken?" Then he came on again. "So like I said, no one here can move. All we can do is wait it out. 
I Couldbe here for days. Hold it will you? ... Honey, turn down the TV set, will you?... You're lucky you aren't here. I wouldn't wish this on anyone ... Not too much ice,swee tie ... I'U never forgive the Long Island Railroad for what they did to me last night." 
"Well, at least you're safe," I said. 
"If you call sharing a room at the Waldorf Astoria with a salesman from Syracuse during the worst blizzard in 20 years 'being safe,' then you don't know anything about snowstorms. Listen, I have to go now...my turtle soup is getting cold." 
The last call I made was to my 
sister in Kew Gardens. "Edith, are you all right?" "I'm fine." "How's Harold?" "I wouldn't know." "Why, where is he?" "He's right here." "If he's right there how come you 
don't know?" 
"We haven't been talking for two days. As long as you're on the phone tell him that dinner is ready if he wants some." 
Harold came on the phone. I said, "Edith says dinner is ready." "Tell her I'm not hungry," he replied. 
Edith came on the phone. I told her, "He says he's not hungry." She said, "Tell him that's too damn bad." "Hey, listen, I'm calling long 
• distance. I just wanted to find out how both of you were." 
"Wonderful," she replied. "Be­ing stuck in you apartment for two days in a snowstorm with your husband is the next best thing to having · a second honeymoon." 
WASHINGTON--How did people cope when they were stuck in their homes during the blizzard? In order to find out I made several
!telephone calls to friends in New York during last week's snow­1 storm. 

sents anoth4~r possible example of conflict with our "ideals." We have the right to demand some answers. 
Flynn review contains error 
Dear Editor: 

Kate Flynn's review of poet Karl Shapiro's rf!ading contains an unforgivable error. Shapiro com­mented that his "plea for precipita­tion from the pisser on high" was "not meant ~or blasphemy but for alliteration." Ms. Flynn apparently heard UberatiiHI instead. Her gross error is not understandable. She continues to capitalize on her mistake by commenting that "Sha­piro showed more of his liberated perceptions ... " Wake up Kate! AlllteratJon makes sense, liberation does not! 
PauDa M. Groves 
St. Patrick's 
Day 
day?" 
''Got to. Got to get to the store if it 
kills me.. " ­
"What for?" 
"My wife's out of cigarettes. 
She's afraid she's going to die if 
she doesn't get a cigarette." 
"That bad, huh?" 
"She's sucking on a strand of raw 
spaghetti now, but she says it isn't 
the same thing. She tried to make a 
cigarette out of oregano leaves, but 
they wouldn't stay in the news­
paper.'' 
"Suppose the store isn't open when you get there?" "She !told me . to smash the windows and loot. "But you could get prison for that." 
"She says it doesn't matter. She says she'll bring the kids up every Saturday to visit me, as long as I get her the cigarettes. I've got to go. She's rifling through the gar­bage compactor to see if she can find a butt." 
"Let her do it," I said. 
"This is the third time she's gone through it. She found all the butts on the first go-round. She won't believe there aren't any left." 
"Okay," I said. "And have a nice day." 
The second call I made was to a friend on Long Island. His wife told me he dido 't make it home and was stuck at the Waldorf Astoria. I called my friend at the Waldorf Astoria. 
"Are you all right?" I asked. 

alter-native 
Dear Editor: 

DMIIBSBUBY 
In the "Letters" column of the October isstue of Notre Dame Magazine, I questioned the appro­
-b:f Gldfe«~­
priateness of the team name "Fighting Irish" in view of the 
r-----------~------~ 

scandalous intra-Christian fighting in Northern llreland. The expected 
pro and con responses appeared in the December issue, some quite bellicose. 
I would like to suggest an alternative outlet for the religious fervor of those letter-writers who baptize murders and bombings with the words "sacred struggle" and "God-given right to be human". 
How about a non-traditional observation of St. Patrick's Day? Instead of beer-guzzling and aggressive bOiii.Sting, how about a public recognition of the sin of ethnicism? How about a liturgy to show that the Notre Dame family is first Christian, and only secondar­ily Irish or Irish-American (or American) and a public commit­ment that when our Christianity clashes with our ethnicity, as It must, our Christianity will come first? 
To be specific, I suggest that the Student Body, the Administration, and the Alumni Organization pro­claim this St. F'atrick's Day a day of public prayer and fasting for the cause of peace in Northern Ireland. Patdek 1. Ro.dte B.S. '60, M.S. '63, Ph.D. '68 
NJ, /V4 I /.(J45 JlJ5T 
BACK? 
H~I?E IIIU-I!LE AGO
YOIIREA 
FOR A Cf)VRRMifTION
NATIVE a' 
HEAI!IN6 114/ MYAP­
o.c.? 
f'()IN"fM&NT A5 AM­
lJAS5APOI?..1D CHINA!
\ I 
. 

~------------------------------~ 

~------------­

*Si~n-)3I! starts Feb, 201 1978 W<EKSHOPS: TITLE MTE TIME Resume Clinic Sun. 2/19 7-9 p.m. Interview Skills Mon. 2/20 3:15-5:15 Assertive Training Wen. 2/22 3:15-5:15 Values Clarification Thurs. 2/23 7-9p.m. Decision Making Job Search Sun. 2/26 7-9 p.m. Skill m Mon. 2/27 7-9 p.m. 0 Open to all Saint .Mary1 a and Notre Dame students. S~ up for all interviews, workshops and events at the CDC, 175 LeMans Hall.  :rNS'rROCTOR LOCATION Mary Ann Daly Student Affairs Mary Laverty Exec. Board Roan Suzanne· Areson Student Affairs Kathleen Rice Regina BEttsy TWitchell McCandless Leslie Wilson Holy Cross Lobby student Affairs Wing,  

ND press publishes novel 
The University of Notre Dame rest in 1907, he grew up between written in Romanian. Most await Press has published its first novel 
World Wars, decades of freedom in translation and publication in other 
and the first English translation of Romania between struggles for languages.Romanian author Mirceal Eliade's independence and the demands of Among his well-known studies masterwork in fiction, The Forbid­a socialist state. 
inthe history of religions are The den Forest. Since completing Forbidden Myth of the Etemal Retana,
The first of Eliade's novels to be Forest, Eliade has written no other Images IIJld Symbols, Myth IIJld published in English, Forbidden novels, but he continues to produce Reality and From Primitives to Forest was translated by Mac short stories and novellas, all Zea. Linscott Ricketts and Mark Park Stevenson. Originally titled Noap­tea de Slmziene ("The Night of St. John''), it was begun in 194 and not completed until five years later, when it was immediately translated into French and published in 1955 as Foret lntenlite. The Romanian edition did not appear until 
.1970-71. Eliade is a distinguished histo­rian of religions who has taught at the University ofChicago's Divinity School since 1957. Born in Bucha-
Fisher sponsors HesburgiJ lecture 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the basement of Fisher Hall. The lectur~ is spon­sored by the Fisher Hall Academic Comission. 
~~ 

Musicologist lectures tonight on B~e~hoven 
Eva Badura-Skoda eminent the Untverstty of Innsbruck. She Viennese :musicologist.' will give a h~ studied at the_ Universities of free public lecture tonight at 8 p.m. Hetdelbe~g and _Vten~a, an~ has Prof. Badura-Skoda, a leading w_orked wtth mustcologtsts Wilhelm scholar and editor of Viennese FIScher and Curt S~chs, among Classical music, will lecture on othe~. She was charrman of th~ performance conventions in mus!cology ~epa~ent at ~e U!" · Beethoven's early works. The verstty of Wtsconsm at MadiSon m, lecture, sponsored by the Notre ~e . 60's, where her husband, Dame department of music, will ptarust Paul B~dur~-Skod~, was take place in the recital hall of the concurrently artist m restdence. I Crowley Hall of Music In addition to her lecture tours ' 
· and participation in international · 
Widely published in the United seminars, Prof. Badura-Skoda is States and Europe, Prof. Badura-currently serving on the faculty of Skoda received her doctorate from th_e University of Vienna. 

Monday Febnw-y 20 1978 · · 
I I 
February 20 -24 This Week At The Career Development Center Saint Mary's College 284-4431 

Interviews Name Date 
Moore Business Forms Mo~t. Feb. 20 Lincoln National Sales Corporation Tues. Feb. 21 ' Pro Industries Thurs. Feb 23 
B.F. G<X>drich Thurs. Feb. 23 
Texaco 
Fri. Feb. 24 liM Coft. Wen. Feb. 22 
Action Peace Corps/Vista -LeMans Lobby Tues. Feb. 28 *U.S. Navy Wen. March 1 *Sears Roebuck Thurs. March 2 *Miles Lab Fri. March 3 *Prudential Insurance Fri. March 3 
after 5:00pm 
·Pi~her of 
Beer 
1f2price
w/
purchaseof large pizza 
CIIIRY axII'ZA 
&LDIJJ 
BBIIDf
:m-015· 

· -the observer 
Major Desired 
Business 
All Majors 
Business 
Bus.jAcc./Mkt./Fin./ Ind. ~./Prod.~/ 
Per.~-/ 
Bus./Acc. 
All Majors All Majors All Majors 
Ret. ~/Cdt. Sales/ Cttbr/Data Procjepywr. Chem./Acc./Comp.Sc/ Math. All Majors 

8 the observer MondayI February 20, 1978 
-Guerillas surrender 
Commando raid triggers tension 
LARNACA• Cypra1 [AP] 

Egyptian commandos defied the Cyprus government and charged through Cypriot gunfire last night to storm a jetliner and free 15 captives held by two Arab terror­ists. 
The self-proclaimed Palestinian guerillas surrendered to the plane's crew during the assault and the hostages were freed, a pilot reported. Witnesses said at least 15 Egyptians were killed. It was not known if any hostages were injured. Both terrorists were captured and one was wounded, 
_ Egypt's official Middle East News Agency reported in Cairo. The Egyptian raid triggered an angry exchange between the Cypriot and Egyptian govern­
ments. Cyprus said the attack caused needless bloodshed just as the terrorists were preparing to free their 11 hostages and the four crewmen of the Cyprus Airways 
OC-8. 

The ordeal began Saturday when the two assassins, who identified themselves as Palestinians, gunned down Egyptian newspaper editor Youssef ei-Sebaei in a hotel lobby in Nicosia, the Cypriot capi­tal. 
GIVE BLOOD 

Residents of Breen-Phillips and St. Ed's who have volunteered to donate blood are reminded to do so tomorrow through Thursday. 
SU to offer Florida guide 

The Student Union Social Com­mission is planning to publish a guide to Florida for this sprin break. Any students from Florid or merely interested, who would t willing to work with them on the guide should contact Sunr Schramm at #6244. 


ROCCO'S 
$3.99 
BARBERS 
hairstylists 

vailable at Notre Dame Bookst
531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
·.. -{ .. .,. ... --,_ 

.• ·~ . . . .. .. .....• ... "fl'.•.•, . .· ·\~~-··. " ...-...., •• <I ............. "':. • ~··:. .~••-..~. '•"'-4---:·.~...... : .. ;.-....-.-.-.-~-. ~ ~·. ~ ·~·-· . ................ ·~··-·:-~·-···· ·, ·>··. 
The gunmen seized hostages and during negotiations were taken to the four-engined plane that flew them and their 15 captives out of Cyprus. 
After an airborne odyssey span­ning much of the Middle East in which half a dozen Arab and other countries refused landing permis­sion, the plane put down in the East African nation of Djibouti early yesterday. There it was refueled and returned to Cyprus. 
About three hours after it landed here, and negotiations had re­sumed, the Egyptian raiders flew in aboard a C-130 transport plane and the firefight erupted. 
Miltiades Christodoulou, the Cypriot spokesman, told reporters the Egyptian military transport carrying the raiders landed under "false pretenses" at Larnace Air­port. 
"Cairo had informed us it was sending a plane with Egyptian ministers to take part in negotia­tions,"he said. 
~:!!!:/WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY 
USICSALE 
BILLY JOEL THE STRANGER 
including· Just The Way You Are Scenes From An Italian Restaurant Movin· Out (Anthony's Song) Only The Good D1e Young/Vtenna 
MCA MCA 
STEREOLPS SERIES798 

$4.99 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
STEREOLPS SERIES698 




In Cairo, a government statement said, '"Prime Minister Mamdouh Salem telephoned Cypriot authori­ties yesterday morning to inform them Egypt was sending a com­mando force to help rescue the hostages." Egyptian television interrupted its programming with news of the commando raid. 
The Cypriot spokesman said, "We told the Egyptian troops not to take any action, but they ran out of the plane and began firing indiscrimin­ately." 
Egyptians were shooting at the control tower, and Cypriot Presi­dent Spyros Kypriano "was forced · to take <:over to avoid being hit. At this point the Greek Cypriot nation­al guard opened fire to protect lives," Christodoulou said. 
Kypriano was in the tower over­seeing neg6tiations with the gun­
men who reportedly were seeking safe passage to an unspecified socialist country, when the Egypt­ian plane landed. The terrorists immediately closed the doors of the jetliner. 
(·.'...il
:.­
.J. 
\ 

1 Monday, February 20. 1978 


Ellison closes SLF 
finished Saturday morning, while
[Continued from page 1] 
sitting in the "Morris Detention 
not a Buckeye, just because I come Center." The first was titled "The 
from Ohio," he said. "I belong to Birds Come Home to Roost'' and 
my friends and my work." concerned a man who is visited in · 
"My work is the most important reverse order by all the women he 
thing for me,"EIIison added "I ever knew. 
would betray anything for my The second story, read later ' 
art--parents, lover, country." during the talk, was called "The. 
Someone in the audience shouted, Man Who Was Heavily Into' 
"Justice?" He replied "Anything, Revenge." It was about a building 
anything." contractor who cheats an old man 
Another member of the audience and who suffers a terrible death 
shouted, "How do you define art?" because of it. 
Ellison snapped back, "What I Both stories were partially auto-· 
write." biographical and Ellison explained . 
Ellison read two short stories, in detail about the incidents from 
one of which he said he had , which the stories came.­
,~o­ls;:.c~•sored by ttte SMC Social Commission Ca:l Nan Murray 4298 (SMC) by Feb. 22 

and special guest STARZ 
1 

monday feb 27 7:30 pm notre dame a.c.c. 
All seats reserved : . $7.00 Roor Festival Style $7.00 Reserved Chair Style $6.00 Reserved Bleacher 
On sale at Student Ticket office, ACC 
NOTICES 

Sophomore gym shorts are In; all sit~~s. 
Antone who took Dynamic Reading or Evelyn Wood, Info wanted ·satisfied or not. Call Brian 7-8 pm, 3013. 
One roomate to share Campus View Apt. Please call 2n-3509. 
MOTORCYCUSTS -Interested in riding to Florida at Easter Break -Tom 287-n43. 
last chance to get your class. '80 shorts. Soph. office, 1-4 pm. 
Looking for a band for your party or formal? Attalla can give you what you need. For the best In boogie and rock around call Fred at 277-34411. ' . 
TYPING DONE Reasonable Rates Call8016 

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-o746, Hours -8 am to 6 pm. 
TYPING. Reasonable arets. Call 8051. 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM Selection II. linda's letters. 287-4971. 
Anyone wishing to vote in the Indiana May elections should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before Spring Break. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at one percent interest monthly, $2Q-$150. One day wait. Due in thirty days. LaFortune basement, 11:15­12:15, M-F. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERIS • Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona, 85011. 
ND AND SMC ARTISTS: We are establishing individual studios and a gallery on our upper level. Work, exhibit and sell in a pleasant atmosphere. We want agood mix of pal nti ng, photography sculpture, silk scree, picture framing, handcrafts, etc. Apply for space at Aquinas Book Shop, 435 S. Michigan St. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional typing service IBM correcting selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232-o898 "When you · want the best." 
Lenten confessions heard Monday through Saturday at Sacred Heart begin­ning at 7 pm. Anyone wishing to make appointment for confession may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
FOR RENT 

Available for Sept., five bedroom house, also three bedroom apartment. Call Nancy Humbarger, 234-9364. 
For rent next school year: Completely furnished 4 bedroom house a couple blocks from campus. No security problems, safe neighborhood, easy walk to campus. Call 2n-3604. 
Two furnished houses for rent next school year-nine month lease, 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom. Near NO, off street parking. Call 234-2626. 
FOR SALE 

FULL COLOR COTOON BOWL PIC· TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982, 
.:oR SALE: BIC 981 urntable only three months old. Comes with SHURE M91ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell, Call 3058. 
Frozen yogurt machine. Great for money minded student. Refreshing for the warm days ahead. Call Erma at Taco Rico-291-3142. 
Marantz 2216 three months old. Best ofer call Mike, 1580. 
Panasonic AM-FM stereo with turntable and cassette player-recorder plus two speakers. Excellent condition, 1 and 1/2 years old. $150. · 
FOR SALE: Realistic TR-801 8 track player-recorder tape deck. VU meters, many extras. like new, Make offer. Call Steve 8209. 
WHY PAY MORE? Flanner Records has all $7.981ist lp's for only $5.29. All $6.98 list lp's for only $4.59 (plus tax). Flanner Records, 322 Flanner, Phone 2741. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: one black wallet with identifying cards (Brendan Taylor) porbably between Sorin and ACC sometime early last week. 1 don't care about the money, but I desperately need the wallet -call 8467. 
LOST: one sterling neclace between gym 
4. ACC and Alumni. Medal Is a cross surrounded by a triangular shelter. Save me from suicide\ Brian, 3n4. 7958. 
classifieds 
LOST: a pocket camera somewhere between North Dining Hall and Admlnl­startion building on Saturday of snows­torm-Please call Ruth, 1317. 
FOUND: a pair of women's gloves, tan with leather palm, about a week ago Saturday behind the bookstore. Call 8472 to claim. 
LOST: Green and gold ski cap. Cafetria. , Reward. Please call Paul, 8540. , 
LOST: One red and green scarf, probably in South Dining Hall. Call 6326. 
LOST: San Francisco license plate-key chain with name "maureen" -please call 
6856. 
LOST: one blue ski glove (lefthand) between the Rock and Alumni. lost on Thursday, Feb. 2, appx. 4:45 pm. If found please contact George at 1248. 
LOST: gold cross necklace on SMC campus. Reward, Cathy-5454. 
LOsTlmaroon ski jacket at library Bar Sat. nite. Special X-Mas present ­Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
LOST: A pair of large brown-framed eyeglasses in a brown case. Reward. Call Rocky. 1n3. 
FOUND: silver wire-framed glasses out­side the ACC before the Maryland game. Call1475. 
LOST: ladle's gold watch at Mardis Gras Sat. linda, 7812. 
FOUND: Men's gloves in room 343 Niewland. Call 272-2548 to claim. 
WANTED 

TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS: Seasonal and yer-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 301-654-3no or send two resumes and two pictures to: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD .. 20015. 
Help ! I need Marquette tickets. Call Annne 4983. 
NO -Mississippi basketball progra needed. Call collect, 616-47H3n. 
Models needed for photographer de­veloping portfolio. No experience neces­sary. Call for details, 616-47H3n. 
Desperately need ride(s) to Miami ­Lauderdale area for sping break-Will share driving and expenses. Call Mickey 3364 or Matt 3349. 
Need two tix to N.C. State game. Call m-5137. 
Need four tix for Marquette game. Call 2n-5137. 
Need one or two GA Loyola tickets. Call Bi II 232-4499. 
Mom, and Dad need two GA tix to Marquette. Please call Rich, 1172. 
WANTED: Ride to Ft. lauderdale for two girls for spring break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Jean or Mo ­4-1-4001. 
Need 6 GA and 5 student tickets for the Marquette game. Will payblg bucks! Call Kevin, 287-57'11. 
TWO TICKETS FOR MARQUETTE: Call Rich, 1173. 
Need four GA tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
Need two Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane, 7883. 
WANTED: Two Marquette tix. Will pay easonable sum of $$. Call 1612. 
Iam in dire need of two Marquette B-Ball tix. Will pay your price, call1612. 
Need up to 8GA tix for Marquette game. Call 1m. 
Need 2or 4 Marquette tix, 8504 or 8502. 
Desperately need four GA Marquete tix. Call 1423.. 
Must have one GA Marquette tic. Will pay$$$. Call Bill 1978. 
Need four tickets to Marquette game. Call Kim, 272-4869. 
Need ride to NYC area Feb. 23. Marice 1312. 
• 

Wanted: One student or GA Marquette ticket. Call Bill, n81. 
Gat rich quick! Just call 272-5843 and sell me your Marquette ticket. Ask for Brian. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer, year round Europe, S. America, Australia, .Asia, etc.• all fields, $500-1200 monthly. expen­ses paid, sightseeing. Free information­Write BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Need ride to Indianapolis or BloomingtonFeb. 24. Call1361. 
Need four GA Marquette tickets. Call Dale 8766. 
PERSONALS 
Overeaters anonymous meeting is now on campus! Call 289-6021 for time and place. 
Happy Birthday to the very popular J.P. (or is it P.J.?) McGuire. With love, from your admirers, 
Joan and Margie 
Dear South Quad Mystery Man, Thanks for the Valentine Carnation! Your "Dining Hall Darling" from 421. 
Steve Fitzmorris, 
Congratulations on making that big step toward you M.D.! We're proud of you! 
Adam, Mare, Pat, Ed & the Gang 
Wis. Wood at 15's little boy feet will become man feet when he turns 16. Pauli 
Dave-

The flowers were beautiful. Don't give up hope despite the odds.....the best is yet to come. You'll see in March. Love you, 
Penny (remember) 
Jane-Bo, Con~atulations on the grat play! Beat SMC!!. Love, Big Sister PS: good luck on all those tests. 
Hey OAK: Are you happy now? My Bets C 
Bill Higgins-
Scared me when I thought you forgot. As always, the answer is a hearty YES! Come visit. 
BFA 

Haircuts, cheap styles, trims. SMC 4530 Betsy. 
Need four GA tix for Marquette game. 
SMC 4530-Betsy. 
Jap (408) "You do have a secret admirer" love, Secret Admirer 
Sandy Rogaski ­The men of Notre Dame don't appreciate you! 
Purple Socks, Throw away your PENCIL! It's the big 20, you'e ready for the REAL THING! 
Morrissey Loan Fund, My body shall remain my own. Sorry. M.PO'H 
Kristen, Happy 19th a little late. 
happy one. Love ya• 
Dear Mr. AMTM You may have the title but 
I have th talent! Ms. Frida 
Easy job. Call 233-7949 anytime S-M-W, or from 8 am to 2 pm on T-Th-F. 
To the hateful chick from South Eas Georgia: Dagum -couldn't forget your 1 
112. Happy half Birthday. 
little Hershey Kiss, Wanna make some chocolate? Miss Nestle 
Pretty kinky, huh. 
Call gorgeous Mary, alias Katy Searle and wish her ahappy 19th birthday. 5221 2North 
Dear RAA 
Congratulations! Your ~reams are coming true, and if anyone desreves that, it is YOU\ Love, 
K. Enrigat PS: Of course, I'll be your brides maid. 
Dear Mr. September, Your thoughtfuIness made my day. You're a real doll! The Calendar Girl 
To AM l Escort Service ­
Here's to Observer personals, dinner, a dozen red roses, and the best Valentine's Day ever! 
MLA Memeber of the Court 
last chance to get your class 80' shorts. Sph. Office, 1-4 pm. 
Sophomore gym shorts are in. All sizes. 
Carmen­

· Feliz cumpleunos from your m·cfobiology friends. 
s.­

ls your April 2nd homework done yet??? 
To the "Clark Kent" of Microbiology: Now they spell class "l,U,C,A,S." JMJ 
__ 
_,_·

.• __ 
.,___ 

the obaanrar Monday, Februarv 20. 1978 
leers split Duluth series, remain in 6th place 
hy Odp Seaalon Sports Writer 
1 

The Irish leers captured and 10$t fifth place in the WCHA over the ·~:-L'-·.... ·~, weekend, moving past Michigan in 1 the standings by virtue of their · decisive 7-3 victory over Minne­sota-Duluth Friday night, only to sink back to sixth by virtue of Saturday's disappointinsz 5-4 loss. It WaS all Irish Friday night. Greg 
•

Meredith opened the scoring at 
5:23 with a power-play goal after UMD goalie Rick Heinz had been, called for tripping. Tom Michalek followed with a score 33 seconds later on assists from linemates Bob I Baumgartner and Kevin Humph­reys, and the Irish were ahead to ; stav. 1 
Mark Pavelich opened the scor­ing for the Bulldogs at 12:08 to· make it 2-1, but Kevin Nugent got that one back with a thundering slapshot from the right wing that blew past Heinz's. outstretched glove, for a 3-1 Irish lead. 
Notre Dame maintained their 
• 
frantic first-period pace throughout the game, combining heads-up stick handling with aggressive fotechecking to contain the action for the most part in the UMD zone. 
Don Lucia opened the second period scoring with a slap shot from the right point after Geoff Collier 
had won the face-off to Heinz's Goalie len Moher goes to the ice to stop a shot in Friday night's game against Minnesota-Duluth, right and dumped the puck back. It which Notre Dame won 7-3. ·The Irish couldn't get out of 6th place, however, as they lost Saturday was a good example of the way that night, 5-4. [Photo by leo Hansen] 
the Irish were able to control the psychological boost. game and apply consistent pres­The third period was anticlima­sure on Heinz. who faced 46 shots. tic. Tom Michalek made it 7-2 early 
Collier added a power-play goal on with a slap shot from just inside at 16:46 after AI Cleveland had the blue line that tipped Heinz's been whistled off for tripping to glove on its way into the net. Don make it 5-J. Junior Right Wing Hedlund and Kevin Nugent were John Rothstein fired a shot be­off the ice at the time, doing two tween Goalie Lenny Moher's knees minutes each for roughing follow-at 19:22 to pull the Bulldogs to ing a brief disagreement in the within 3, but Kevin Nagorski near comer, the only flare-up in an scored his first career goal 15 otherwise clean contest. John Har­seconds later on assists from John rington closed the scoring with a Freidrnann and Dan Byers to give hard wrist shot from a face-off at the Irish a 6-2 bulge and a 9:36. 
quick backhander from right in front of Heinz that caught him by surprise. But agian, UMD carne back. After some brilliant oenaltv 

Irish jeopardize NCAA chances 
with loss to South Carolina 
by Bob Keen Sports Writer 

ln Columbia, South Carolina on Saturday the Notre Dame basket­ball team, by losing its second game in a week, to the Gamecocks, 
65-60,  seriously  jeopordized  its  
chances of attaining  a  bid to  the  
NCAA Tourney.  

Actually, the Irish jumped to a quick 8-2 lead after Senior co-captain Don "Duck" Williams hit a 20 foot jumper. After a time-out South Carolina regrouped and cut the margin to just a field goal, 10-8. 
On Notre Dame's next possession Kelly Tripucka went to the basket drawing the foul. The Gamecock players and bench took exception to 
the call, however, and subse-• were never to relinquish the lead as 
qucntly Golie Augustus and Head Coach Frank McGuire were asses­sed technical fouls. Freshman standout Tripucka calmly sank all five foul shots to give Notre Dame a -::ornfortable seven point lead. 
The Irish failed to capitalize upon a situation in which many less experienced teams, in similar situ­ations, have turned the contest into a route. Instead, the Gamecocks ~ept their composure playing soundly at both ends of the court and narrowed Notre Dame's mar­gin to just a bucket in the final minutes of the half. More impor­tantly, after center Jim Graziano picked-up his third foul sending him to the Gamecock bench, McGuire slowed down the tempo of the contest, keeping his club withing striking distance until the half. In fact, Karlton Hilton's desperation jumper from 25 feet at· the lbuzzerl knotted the score at 29. 
Notre .Dame managed to shoot only 44 percent from 1the field in the first half despite many good scor­ing opportunities. Dave Batton let 
the Irish with eight points, with 
Williams addin.q six. South Caro­lina shot 50 percent from the field, but more importantly they did a good job of rebounding against a much taller Irish team. 
Beginning the second half in much the same fashion as the first, Notre Dame hit their first five shots 
spurting to their second seven point lead of the game, 41-34. Again the Irish squandered their chance to take control of the game by committing three straight turn­overs that directly led to six unanswered Gamecock points. 
South Carolina finally took the lead 48-47 on a basket by senior captain Jackie Gilloon. The Gamecocks 
Notre Dame could get no closer 
than within one. 

Depite the loss of both Graziana and Gilloon with five fouls in the final minutes of the contest, Notre Dame was unable to make the clutch steals and shots necessary to overcome the South Carolina lelJd. Instead, the Gamecocks displayed the poise of a veteran and well­disciplined club sinking almost 86 percent oftheir free throws, includ­ing two by Freshman Kevin Dun­Ieavy with just 13 seconds remain· ing in the game that sealed the victory. 
Williams and Batton carried the Irish, scoring 19 and 16 points respectively, most of which came from long range over Carolina's 1 tenacious zone defense. However, the rest of the team never became a factor on the offensive end of the court, shooting only 45 percent for the game. Although the Game­cocks didn't shoot; much better, 1 th.ey made them ~hen ~hey had .to. Gtlloon led Carohna wtth 15 pomts ! 
If Friday night's game was corner to give Notre Dame the lead encouraging to fans who have at 2:39. With UMD defensernan, watched their Irish skate back from Tom Madson, whistled off for an 0-8 :record to the play-offs, elbowing at 13:14, ND was pres­Saturday's game was a setback. ented a power-play opportunity Notre Dame skated as well and hit that turned from gold to dust when as hard as the night before, but John Rothstein poked the puck free careless passing and momentary from the point man and skated in defensive breakdowns supplied alone on John Peterson to score a Minnesota-Duluth with a cluster of break-away shorthanded goal. In easy scoring opportunities on their that single flash of blade and stick, way to a S-4 wim. Rothstein served notice that the 
The Irish appeared to be in control . Bulldogs weren't about to be when Steve Schneider tipped in a manhandled again. Greg Meredith shot from the The Irish continued to move the 
puck well in the second period. 
Geoff Collier made it 2-1 with a 

before fouling out late in the game on quite a controversial call. Augustus led all rebounders in 
%Observer the game with ten. Indeed, the determining factor in the contest may well have been the South Carolina 31-27 rebounding margin. "You've got to give credit to Frank CVJd his kids today," said Phelps. "They played the entire game with 
Sportsgreat intensity and I feltthe keyto the first half was their work on the boards." 
"Our kids hung in there with a lot of guts,'' McGuire emphasized. "They were out of it twice -in the second half when we fell seven behind and! in the first half when 
Weekend Sports Results
they shot all those technicals." 
The loss drops Notre Dame's record to 17-5 with just three The Irish Fencing team increased their season record to 11-0 and games remaining before the NCAA their wi.nning streak to 78 matches by downing Michigan State 24-3, makes its selections for the tourna­and OhiO State 17-10. The Women's Epee team raised their record 
to 6-1 by defeating Michigan State 6-3. 
ment. ShoUtld the Irish falter in any of these <:ontests the selection committee may have second 
The Irish Track. team collected 13 points to finish 13th among a doubts. Although Notre Dame 
field of 17 teams m the Central Collegiate Championships. Chuck made the tournament several years 
Aragon qualified for the NCAA National Competition at Cobo Hall ago with a 18-9 record, one must 
in Detroit on March 10-11. realize thatthey had also won 11 out of their last 12 games. With this in The Notre Dame Swim team lost over the weekend to Monmouthmind, Tuesday's battle with the College of New Jersey, which is ranked fourth in the country inWolfpack of North Carolina State Division III. Monmouth amassed 69 points to the Irish's 44 points. 
becomes the most crucial game of the season. 
The Notre Dame Wrestling squad placed first out of a field of 24 teams in the Wheaton Tournament held this past Friday and
Belles to host 
Saturday. The Irish collected 82 points, just barely defeating Drake University with 81 and one quarter points. Marquett took third
women cagers 
olace with 53 and'"One quarter PQints. The St. Mary's Belles will host the Notre Dame Women's Basket­
In the Midwest Collegiate Ski Association Championships held on ball Team tonight at 7 p.m. in the 
Sa.turday, the Irish Ski team took top honors with 119 points.Angela Athletic Facility. This will 
Mmnesota placed second with 82 points, while Western Michiganbe the second meeting between the 
University finished third with 72 points. two teams, with the Irish having won the first game 61-51. The 
The Notre Dame Women's Basketball team raised their seasonconfrontation will be the first ever­record to 10-2 with a 62-50 victory over the Titans of Marionbetween the two teams in the new College.
Angela facility. • killing by the Irish while" Bria.D Burke occupied the box, Collier lost the puck to the troublesome Roth­stein, who skated in with his line on a lone defender and dumped a pass to Mark Pavelich for an easy ftip past Peterson. Five minutes later, Pavelich emerged from a face-off flurry with the puck, skated in front of Peterson and lifted the puck over his right shoulder for a 3-2 Bulldog lead ~oing into the final period . 

UMD came out for the final frame like they were killing a· twenty­minute penalty, dragging the puck and killing time in an effort to keep the Irish offense off balance. 
But Notre Dame continued to apply the heat until Tom Mich­alek's shot rebounded off Heinz to Bob Baumgartner in front of the net, who slid it past the goalie's stick to tie the score with 7:35 gone. 
UMD's Harrington scored on assists from McDonald and 'K.ulyk at 13:10, and Terry Fairholm backhanded his own rebound past Heinz at 14:22 to make it 4-4. 
But it was to be the night of the defensive error, which is why Bulldog Center Davey Johnson found himself all alone in front of John Peterson at 15:26, when Mitch Corbin hit Johnson with a perfect pass, Johnson hit the nets with a solid wrist shot, and Minnesota-Duluth hit the Irish with a hard defeat. 
"Mental mistakes killed us," insisted Coach Lefty Smith after Saturday night's loss. '"Instead of making them earn their goals, we gave them to them on a silver platter." 
Smith noted that the Bulldogs tend to rely on a few good skaters for most of their offensive power. "Kids like Harrington and (Dan) Lempe and Rothstein are fast forwards. They get out there and move the ouck." 
We've got a tough eight or nine days ahead of us," noted Smith. "We've got Michigan State Friday and Saturday, then we have to go up to Grand Forks (North Dakota) for two games Monday and Tues­day. It's going to be pretty tough." If the Irish play like they did on Friday night, the road might be a bit easier. 
-------~~----~----~--------~--------~----~--~~--------­



