


---.-.--~----·----­
AN TOSTAL carnival focus 
of hall presidents' meeting 
Council members with his carni­Driscoll said,' 'The percentages of by Mike Lewis val's operations and attractions. the games is designed to make .the · Senior Staff Reporter 
He said that he had "worked at money and give the player a fair several universities" in the lllinois­chance to win." 
The o\N TOSTALunival proposal Indiana area, and most had been Rooney added, "The only way
and debate concerning The Obser­the won't make a profit,
"very successful." halls ver were the major issues covered AN TOSTAL Chairman John barring bad weather, is by mis­night's
at last Hall Presidents's ~o~r,tey said that the managing the booth."
residenceCouncil meeting held in LaFortune halls will operate "probably 15Student Center. 
tentatively ~~~~~~~f~~rJIIII
locatedThe carnivalin the Stepan
is Center
carnival games. and the halls canRobert Driscoll of the McDermott 
parking lot. "Right now we plan to 
double-up, pretty much like MardiAmusement Company, Inc. 
operate between eight to ten
Gras."
presented a film to familiarize the rides,'' Driscoll noted. He added I , ~.·.·-·! l;,;;)t1f~j .,, ,
that more specific measurements will be taken ''after all this snow melts." 
Grace President Jerry Castellini II Il [ i IIi)/i)>C'\ ''t-!1</·}:.•, 
some
inquiredrides, about the that
consideringsafety of the 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j~~~~
students may be under th~ 
influence of alcohol. Driscoll 
have strict orders not to allow · 
responded,that"My ride operators will under the ,....................................................... i>
someone much 

~·············································································~~~~~~. ffi~~~-·)
influence on the ride. This is li i iiii I iii 
our company." He added that his organization
standard operating procedure with ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~~~~;f:~Ijj~J
has compiled a "very good safety record" in 35 years of operations. He noted that the equipment is ''fully safety tested'' and that most concernign SU films was inaccurate of using no obscenity or scandalous accidents are caused by the and exaggerated and Gryp asked material. customers, not the equipment. the HPC members to reap copies of The meeting then progressed to 
. The McDermott Company will the letter to "see if it deserves Driscoll's film, but HPC Chairman not provide security for the censorship." J.P. Russell granted Observer student-operated booths, Driscoll Bender stated that the Editor-in-Chief Marti Hogan a said, adding, "I can't be newspaper should have "some rebuttal following the movie. responsible for merchandise after I kind of financial accountability." Hogan said, "Our financial turn it over to you." Noting that Student Government records are open, and anyone can 
Rooney stated, "We'll take care and Student Union were subject to come up and review them at any of security," noting that the evaluation, Bender proposed a time." She also stated that the merchandise will probably be commission to evaluate The Obser· paper presently has an advisory stored in Stepan Center. ver. He suggested that this board, consisting of two American 
In other matters, Student Body commission could include the HPC Studies professors, an accounting President Dave Render Chairman, a Hall President, the professor, a member of the art addressed the HPC with criticisms Student Body President, a Campus department and a reporter from the of The Observer and a proposal to Life Council member, an account-South Bend TrlbUile. establish a board to "evaluate" the ing student and a faculty member. The letter was not printed, she 
In addition, Bender questioned said, because "a consensus of the paper. the effectiveness of The Observer editorial board" determined that 
''What is at issue here is that all in reporting some recent develop-Gryp should be contacted first. of us pay a $6 fee and we should ments on campus. Hogan added that a second story have some input into the quality of He concluded that the student had been planned to gather more 
... £ • 
..,.~,,<41 The Observer." Bender said. body "should have some input into information to clear up the movieIt "'Pf~d; The issue arose when a letter the quality of the paper, and the controversy. Hogan said that she from Gryp to The Observer was not right to have opinions presented as had tried to contact Gryp, but was 
• I 
john Rooney [above] An Tostal chairman and a representative of printed. Gryp called the letter long as they follow the guidelines" (continued on pal!:e 7)McDermott Amusement Company Inc. addressed the HPC meeting 
last night. [photo by Doug Christian] ~~~~~~~ t~!t ~~~~ T~~=~~~~-~rtic:: -------~--------_...,
: . . : '' . ' ' t t




Safety hazards emphasized t 
t

by Morrissey fire damage t 
by Patrick Cole Onda nor anyone on the third floor stuff. It was like a dream. I just 
t

Special Projects Editor of Morrissey was killed. On of the couldn't believe it happened. Then 
keys to the lack of casualties was the following Tuesday my mother t EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the third the response by third floor Morris­brought me some clothes." story In a series examining fire sey residents to the fire. "Student Thinnes added some details, t 
safety at the University. Today's response was excellent," said "My parents didn't come up to see story will look at the damage and Notre Dame Fire Inspector Jack the damage, but they did send me t effect of the Morrissey Hall fire Bland. "And their cooperation was some clothes." 
t

that occured last September. excellent, too." But what their parents could not Cause: electrical wiring breng or replace were some of the t About eight hours before the Onda said that the electrical valuable possessions destroyed in 
Notre Dame football team met the wiring that ran under the partition the fire. Thinnes lost a Lloyd's University of Pittsburgh squad for in the double room located in the stereo, souvenirs that he had the opening game of the season last chapel wing of Morrissey caused obtained in Europe while studying Sept. 10. Junior Bob Onda almost the blaze. Thinnes suggested abroad, slides, a Greek flag and methis death in Morrissey Hall. another possibility. "I remember a some wall hangings. Onda had lost 
There is some good news and candle was burning. We had a a paperback collection of about 40 some bad news to this story. The cinderblock shelf with two by ten books, some binoculars, high bad news is that most of his inch boards that could have ignited school yearbooks and a 1934 Notre personal belongings and those of by the candle. But that's hard to Dame varsity monogram sweater. 
his roommate, junior Jeff Thinnes, do, because the wick of the candle "It was amazing," Onda said, were destroyed in the blaze. And was low." "You can still smell the smoke in the good news, well, Onda can still 
Bland ruled out the candle, too. some of our clothes." recall what happened that Saturday 
"I don't think the candle was the Most of Onda and Thinnes' morning: thing," he said. "It could have personal belongings were insured 
"It was about three o'clock when been the extension cord in the by their parents' home owners I went to bed," he said. "And Jeff room." policy. According to Onda, the went down the hall. In our room, Unfortunately, these observa­policy covers 10 percent of the 
we had a partition that had wooden tions were made after the blaze, for value for which the belongings in 
shelves on one side. Once I was in much was lost "We salvaged a the home are insured. Onda said 
bed, I smelled smoke and then few pairs of shoes and socks and that he was covered for $2,400 and heard a cackling sound." some shirts," Thinnes recalled. Thinnes' insurance covered him up "So I quickly ran out of the room With little clothing, hardly any to $1,950. Both Onda and Thinnes, 
personal belongings, no books, just however, told that the insurance
to get a fire extinguisher," Onda continued, "and I closed the door. not much of anything, -Onda and reimbursement did not cover all the Then Jeff Anderson (a Morrissey Thinnes spent about five weeks in damaged items lost in the fire. t 
resident) pulled the fire alarm. By Moreau Seminary while their room What the insurance companies 
the time I ran to the end ofthe hall, 
was b,eing restored. did not covel', friends of Onda and t 
the room was filled with smoke!" Onda recalled some more details Thinnes -and even strangers -t Then Thinnes added, "I then about the rear tragedy in Morris­donated food, clothing and money 
tThe annual rebirth of O'Shaughnessy Lake signals the return of tst'irted banging the doors to get sey: "I didn't call my folks until 5 to help them get back on their feet. 
people out.'' o'clock the next day. Then we ''That was the most amazing tspring to du Lac and provides a new [better] perspective of the , Library. t
In short, the good news: neither started rummaging through the (continued on page 6). ~~~~ ..... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

the observer 

WEATHER 
Partly cloudy today with cance of snow, rain or sunshine. In none of these appear, the weather has been cancelled. Tomorrow should be pretty much the same. Tempera­tures today and tomorrow should range in the thirties. 
The Observer Is published Mon­d•y through Frld•y except during ex•m lind v.c.atlon periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre D•me •nd S.lnt M•rv'• College. Subscriptionsm•v be purdl•sed tor no per ve•r (S 1o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, Indian• 46556. Second cl••• postage p•ld, Notre D•me. lndl•na, 46556. . The Observer Is • member of the A11oclated Prell. All repro­duction rights •re reaerved. 

On Campus Today _ __....._. 
8 am -5 pm art exhibit, holly howard and lynda halley, weaving 
8:30 Clm­5 pm 
12:15 
pm 

12:15 
pm 

12:15 
pm 


1 pm 
3:15pm 
3:25pm 
3:30pm 
5:15pm 
6:30pm 
6:45pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
7:30pm, 8:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 9,11 pm 
Wednesday, March 1, 1978 
sculpture, painting and drawing, isis gallery, old fieldhouse. 
peace corps/vista recruitment drive, library con­course. 
mass, fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
seminar, "identification & separation of lymphocyte populations by bacterial adherence," dr. marius t~dorescu, univ. of ill. med. center, 278 galvin lite sc1ence aud., sponsored by dept. of microbiology. 
faculty forum, "opportunities for research for the airforce," wright patterson afb, 121 hayes healy, sponsored by college of business administration. open to public. 
career workshop, "values clarification & decision making," jean gorman. 170 lemans, sponsored by career development center. . 
career workshop, "assertiveness training & inter­view skills," suzanne areso and mary Iaverty. 170 lemans, sponsored by career development center. 
seminar, "nature & evolution of american law" dean david t. link, nd. 265 chem. engr. bldg., sponsored by chem. engr. dept. 
lecture "bias in fluirl velocities determined from suspended particle velocities," thomas giel, aro tulahoma, tenn., 303 engr, bldg., sponsored by aero & mech. engr. dept. 
faster's mass, celebrant: fr. andy ciferni, sponsored by hunger coalition, walsh chapel. 
meeting, sailing club, 204 engr. bldg. 
meeting, alanon, rm 700 mem. lib. 
meeting, ham radio club, grace hall penthouse. 
radio free notre dame, topic: "sex at notre dame," hosts steve thomas and peter c. gregory. 
film, "the miracle months," sponsored by nd/smc right to life, carroll hall aud., smc. 10:30 pm walsh hall. 
films, "Ia jetee," "the jewish wife," "open window," "omega" & others, sponsored by nd film society, rm 232 moreau, smc, free. 
music/lecture, michael steinberg, little theater, sponsored by dept. of music, public invited, no charge. 
concert, richard collins, pianist, lib. aud. & lounge, sponsored by music dept. 
film, "jane eyre" starring george c. scott, sponsored by academic commission, lyons hall chapel. 

-;
~-----------------~-­

by Kathleen Connelly Staff Reporter 
As a result of vandalism, the 

wooden gate on the road between 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will 
be replaced by the full-time use of 
an iron gate and padlock. 
The change has been made as the result of eleven separate acts of vandalism in the past two weeks, security director Arthur Pears stated. 
He added that the wooden gate was made of a material that breaks easily so that if the automatic mechanism malfuntions and the arm comes down on a car, it will cause minimal damage. 
"We are looking for someone who manufactures a rubber gate that will be more resistant to vandals," Pears said. 
"We apprehended the offenders involved in three of the incidents. They were all Notre Dame students, so they were reported to the Dean of Students and ticketed for coming onto campus illegally," he explained. 
Pears said that owing to the fragile nature of the old gate, it would break off if someone just pulled it back far enough. 
Before the vandalism, the iron gate was used only after 12:30 p.m. when the buses stopped running. Now the iron gate will be locked 24 hours a day. The bus company has been issued a key for the lock and its drivers will be responsible for maintaining security precaustions. 
Pears estimated that the time necessary for the driver to unlock the gate and lock it again aftet passing through would be about two or three minutes. He acknowledged that this could make some students late for class. "The time element could cause some hardships, but our first concern is security.'' Pears commented. 
"The use of the gate and lock will definitely be an inconvenience to the bus drivers," Pears stated, "but I had the bus company out here last Friday and, after seeing the situation, thy agreed that this is the only way to deal with the problem.'' 
r················................. 
• CHALLENGING THE ESTAB­
+ LISH c c
• 
ED ON EPTS OF DEVE­

• 
LOPMENT........... 


+ 
A unique series of lnconclastlc

+ 
studies on development _ in the third world, In the ghettos, In rural 


areas. 
: 
• Refreshingly candid. Provocative.
+ 
A must lor professionals and

+ 
students. Establishes the basic

+ 
principles, laws of development·

+ 
answers the questions: What 1i

+ 
development? What determines

+ 
development? Why Is develop­

+ 
men! not achieved?


+ 
+ 
All items postpaid. Write for • complete publication list. 
+ 
Lectures Seminars

+ 
9907 Vale Rd.

+ 
Vienna , Virginia 22180 


•
II "How Humanity Impedes +
Third World Development" .... • 
Booklel$1.50 •• II "A Return to Valid Develop-men! Principles"......... + 
Article $1.00 + "Development and Human Dlgnl-+ ty: New Perspectives"..... + 
Booklet $1.25 II"New Approaches lor Success In + Third World Development"..... •. 
Booklet $1.50 "Common Sense for Foreign Aid + and Third World Development".. + 
Booklel$1.25 + #I "Debt relief lor the Third + World: Road to Disaster"..... + 
Article $.50 +
+ 

#1-[Originally given as a series of + lectures at the U.S. Dept. of State, + Wash. D.C. + 
...............................~ 
i 



Quick Service Reasonable Prices 
for info call 7757 

Wednesday, March 1, 1978 
the observer 




Campus energy cutbacks apparent 

by Loretta Hoch many halls are dimming the inten-and turn off all unnecessary lights. A crusade to curtail the use of attack," according to Business 
sity of the lights, dorms such as In other areas of the campus, electricity in classrooms has been Manager Wilmer Berndt. Cut-
Reduced energy consumption is Flanner and Grace are removing fewer and di,mmer light are also organized by the Dean of Arts and backs are now occuring not only in 
apparent across the Notre Dame bulbs altogether resulting in up to a prevailing. In the ACC, Assistant Letters, Isabel Charles. Charles the lighting, but are also being 
campus, as dorms, offices, and 70 percent reduction of lighting. Director Joseph Sassano reported has issued a letter requesting that considered in the regulation of the 
classrooms have been darkened to Notices discouraging all un-that lighting has been reduced by all professors refrain from using heating system. Working closely 
comply with the 1S percent energy necessary uses of electrical appli-SO percent in most parts, and up to the lights whenever possible. with Building EngiQeer Charles 
cutback requested by the Notre ances are scattered across the walls 7S percent in ,seldom used areas. Alternatives, such as raising the Ayers and Assistant Director of 
Dame energy conservation com-of most dorms in an effort to In addition, he stated that all office shades, or only using one row of Maintenance, Walter Jaworski, 
mittee. eliminate the excessive use of personnel have been notified to lights, were also suggested in the library officials have organized a 
The elimination of unnecessary stereos, hair dryers, televisions, shut off electrical appliances when letter. system of recirculating much of the 
lighting and use of electrical appli-and other electrical "luxuries." not in use. The use of television Lighting in halls and restrooms air, rather than pumping in fresh 
ances is the energy-saving strategy lights during basketball practice of classroom buildings has been cut air, which must be heated. 
being employed by most building In an attempt to get students has also been discontinued. "In down by SO percent and many In the Huddle, an elimination of
involved, Peter Broccoletti, assis-11 d · ht · f
supervisors. general, an a aroun tlg emng o classrooms are now being locked at all heating appliances as well as a All conservation measures are tant rector of Fisher Hall ex-the belt is being implemented to night, eliminating their use for SO percent reduction in lighting is being instituted strictly on a volun-plained, "We're requesting that conserve energy," observed Sas-night-time studying. Fr. James being observed. Although this
students turn off their stereos or h d h t
tary basis, but cutback efforts by sano, w o state t a energy Flanigan, building supervisor of means that there is no longer any 
the building supervisors have lights when they leave their rooms consumption has been reduced by O'Shaughnessy, reported that toast, hot fudge, or popcorn, 
apparently been very successful, and that they cut down whenever 2S percent. classrooms there are being locked employees at the Huddle have 
Fr. James Riehle, director of possible." At the Rockne Memorial, similar at 9 p.m. However, he complained found that "people can put up with 
energy conservation stated. Students are also being urged to conservation measures have been that students have been climbing chocolate instead of hot fudge, and 
Many dorm rectors are observing watch television in groups. and to organized, according to building into the windows by means of snow survive without BLT's." 
the guidelines suggested at an use fewer lights in their rooms. supervisor Edward Kazmierzak. In banks, and using the rooms to In reviewing the steps being 
emergency rector's meeting, held Dillon Hall has gone one step response to the University's re-' study in. "I guess that the locking taken throughout the campus thus 
last Thursday evening by Fr. further, having adopted Riehle's quest that buildings cut down their of windows will now become an far, Riehle reported that voluntary 
Riehle. idea of appointing "watt watchers" energyuse by 1S percent, Kazmier-important step in conserving ener-conservation measures have been 
Reduction of hall lighting, other to every floor. Various Dillon zak points out that SO percent of the gy," he concluded. "very satisfactory," aild he did not 
than exit signs, has been practiced residents have been selected to lighting has been eliminated in the Energy conservation in the lib-forsee the need for mandatory 
in most dorms. Outside lighting patrol the halls during the evening hall's gyms, and swimming pool. rary consists of a "two pronged cutbacks.
has also been decreased. While ..;.______....;...;.____.;;;.___~------....o;..;..____;;..._______....;~....:;:--.;;.;;.;.;;.;;~;;.;..--------­
Weight training equipment stolen 



ucan't
by Jerry Perez 
Staff Reporter 
Approximately $400 of weight training equipment was stolen from the ACC weight room between 9 
p.m. Monday night and 2 p.m. yesterday afternoon, according to 

inenta '
Pete Broccoletti, weight training 
coach. 
Pieces reported missing included 
a seven-foot Olympic bar, two 
Olympic collars and 20 York plates 
ranging in size from two-and-a-half 
to 4S pounds. "They stole a whole 
Olympic set," Broccoletti commen­
ted. 
Upon opening the weight room at 
around 1:SS yesterday, Broccoletti 
said that he noticed one of the bars 
was missing. He immediately took 
a count of plates and found several 
gone. 
Broccoletti also noted that the 
wieght room key was discovered 
missing from its place in the issue 
room at around 1 p.m. yesterday, 
an hour before he opened up the 
weight room with his personal set 
of keys. 
According to Broccoletti, the key 
then "suddenly appeared" at 3 
p.m. the same afternoon. He reported that the attendant in the issur room was unable to account fo for the reappearance. 
"It must have been an inside 
job," Broccoletti said. "It had to 
be executed by someone who knew 
the workings of the weight room 
and the issue room." He also cited 
the possibility that the thieves 
made a copy of the key. 
John J. Stephens, associate di­rector of athletics, commented, "I don't knowhow they got that stuff out of there." Broccoletti, however, suggested that the equipment was removed from the . ACC by way of an exit door close to 
the weight room. 
Broccoletti conjectured that the 
individuals responsible for the 
robbery are storing the goods 
off-campus. "It's pretty difficult to 
hide a seven foot Olympic bar in a 
dormitory," he said. 
The Notre Dame Weight Club is 

presently offering a reward to To make it even easier, charge it all on our anyone offering information "Let Yourself Go" credit card. Fly now and pay pertaining to the stolen equipment. 
when that letter comes in from home. Check with your travel agent, your campus rep or Continental and find out how you canCampaign forum take the easy way out. 
tonight We really move our tail for you. 
There will be a campaign forun tonight at 10:30 p.m. in Planner Pit 

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 8 
with the candidates for Student The Proud Bird wilh !he Golden Tail. 


Body President and Vice-Presi­dent. The candidates will field questions from the audience.  MGIIT COACH: Travel between 9:00PM and 6:59 AM to selected destinations. SUPER COACH: Limited seats available on specified nonstop OC-10 flights. COACH EXCURSION: Minimum 7 day advance purchase and reservation. Return not earlier than lst Sunday ·nor later than 30 days after departure. Limited seats available.  
Interested students are invited to  
attend.  

%The Observer 
an indepenent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Notre Dame Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
seriously, folks 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed 

How Sad It Is
Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

..-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buchwald 
n--------------------------------·---------show former President Nixon 
Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 

Washington--I think for me the saddest thing about Watergate is that members of the old Nixon 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau 

gang have turned against each Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
other. Who would ever have dreamed that on the David Frost 
Wednesday, March 1, 1978 


Election Guidelines 
As the student body election campaigns get ur-tderway, The Observer would like to state publicly its policy on election coverage. This policy will be followed in covering both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's elections. 
1. All coverage of the campaigns will be handled through the news department, except as noted below. 
a. Only experienced reporters will cover 
election stories.  
b.  None  of  these  writers  nor  any  
Observer  editor  is  connected  with  any  
candidate's campaign.  

c. Every effort will be made to insure fair and equal coverage of each candidate, and equal placement in the newspaper. If this is not possible, placement will be determined by draw. 
2. 
The Observer wiII accept paid advertising for any CCI1didate. 

3. 
The Observer will not publish letters or columns concerning candidates or their platforms. 


Individuals or representatives of" organi­zations who wish to challenge any part of a candidate's platform are advised to attend the public forums, which will be covered by The Observer. 
Legitimate organizations which meet the criteria of the official election guidelines may endorse Notre Dame candidates by contacting The Observer in writing before 10 p.m. Sun., March 5. (Dates will be 
Y()(} SURE THIS PHREDDY, 

8/!T 7HE IS IAIHJJ:T 7HI3Y'RE: TRUST ME! 
SHOIJL[)ERS IAIEARIN6 AT U.N. I 60T 7HE 
AR&SO PLAZA THESE f)E516N FROM 
B.4G6Y•• OAYS,MOI?T? AN "ESQ/JIRE" 
\
\ LESS 7HAN 11AKJ YEARS OW! 
announced for Saint Mary's.) A list of organizations endorsing each candidate will appear in Monday's Observer under the candidate's name. No statements of endorsement from these groups will be published. 
Endorsements should accurately reflect the opinion of a majority of the organiza­tion's membership. Consequently, endorsements wi II be accepted from the Sophomore Class Officers, for example, but not from the sophomore class (except in the unlikely case that such an endorse­ment can be verified before publication). 
4. 
The Observer editorial board will endorse a candidate andl/er analyze the comparative merits of the candidates. The endorsement will be run as an editorial in Friday's Observer. The Observer editorial board will interview the candidates to­night. Each ticket will be given equal time for presentation and questions. 

5. 
Each candidate will be allowed an equal amount of column space for a final statement. These columns will appear in Monday's Observer on the editorial page. 


The Observer has established these guidelines to insure complete and un­biased coverage of the student body elections. Any complaints concerning these guidelines or our campaign coverage should be communicated to the editor-in­chief. 

would have implicated John Erlich­man and Bob Haldeman, whom he considered his "sons," in the coverup of a third-rate burglary? Who would have though that John Erlichman would write a fiction novel based on President Nixon showing him in such an unfavorable light? How could anyone have predicted that Bob Haldeman, one of the great White House stonewallers, would let down his hair and blow the whistle on Nixon, Charles Colson and Henry Kissinger? Whatever they did in the past I always said to my wife, "At least you have to admire them for their loyalty to each other." I always dreamed that Nixon crowd would meet together on the Tenth Anniversary of Watergate and have a nostalgic reunion, reliving those wonderful days when they were all fighting in the White House bunker. They would kid each other about putting on weight and tell outrageous lies about their Watergate War exper­iences. It would be a scene out of "White Christmas," with John Dean calling up everybody and saying, "Let's go out to San Clemente and show the old man that, while the rest of the country may have forgotten him,those ofus who fought with him still really care." I could see them gathering on the lawn overlooking the blue Pacific and everyone would break into "Hail to the Chief" as Nixon came out in the suit he wore when he wa~ President. There would be tears in his eyes as he looked at those familiar faces, and then he'd say, "I want you all to shape up. I've 
never seen such a sloppy bunch of White House aides in my life." 

Then they would all sit around the pool drinking California wine and listening to the tapes, once again thinking back on those wonderful days when it was "us" against "them." 
But apparently the reunion will never come off. And once again the Nixon Administration people have the media to blame. 
If the newspapers, magazines, TV and book publishers hadn't dumped all that money on them, this great group of honorable men might never have ratted on each other. 
The tragedy of post-Watergate is that in order to pay their lawyers, all those involved in the break-in and the coverup had to go their own way to make their stories worth the megabucks their agents had gotten for them. 
It is sad for all of us who sat on the sidelines to see these men who went through so much together now at each other's throats. 
Those of us who thought that Watergate was behind us now realize that the wounds are too deep and the book advances too high for any of the people involved to stick together. 
My wife has taken in harder than I have. When the Haldeman excerpts from his book were prin­ted, she said tearfully, "How could he have done it to Nixon?" 
I said, "How could Nixon have done it to him?" 
Then  she  said,  "How  could  
,Colson  have  done  it  to  Halde­ 
man?"  

And I said, "How could Dean have done it to all of them?" 
Perhaps it's futile for people who weren't there to speculate why these fine, outstanding men would turn against each other at this stage of the game. My own theory is that it never would have happen­ed if Checkers had been alive. 

REAU.Y?.. 
\ 

--P.O. BOX Q­
oangerous 
paranoia 

Dear Editor: 
Mr. and Mrs. Bob Ford's letter opposing United States policy to­wards Israel requires nothing less than an outraJl.eous r_eQiv. Anyone has the right, and perhaps the duty, to question publicly a set of political decisions with which he disagrees. No one has the moral right publicly to impune individuals because of their race, tribe, cul­ture, language, sex, religion or other class characteristic having no direct connection with a political action. Such commentary as we read in Mr. and Mrs. Ford's letter is racism, more specifically, here, anti-Semitism. World War II taught us that it is never too soon to 
DOONESBURY 
fA/HAT's A DISCO? 
\ 

react to an insidious paranoia that leads to fear, hatred, and finally violence. 
To some the letter may sound 

innocuous.  Consider,  however,  
what  it  might  mean  to  "curb  
Jewish  influence  here  at  home  
because  it  would  be  just  and  

right." More specifically, what does it practically mean that "We should work to limit Jewish repre­sentation in universities, govern­ment and the professions to 3 percent (their share in the popula­tion)." As a first step, consider how we are to identify the 3 percent. Yellow stars of David? How many years was it, last time, from the star to the oven? Those of us who are of Irish descent might remember our own great grand­fathers' stories of hunger as a consequence of their names. In my own generation, though the discri­mination had thankfully become trivial, there are haunting mem­ories of humiliation that turn to nightmares in the flickering light of old newsreels from Auschwitz, Buchenwald and so many other monuments to the worst in man­kind.. 
It has always been easy and dangerous to ascribe complex pro­blems to simple causes, but such reductiveness is most disturbing when the causes are not individual people or individual ·actions but holistic conspiracies. Whether the conspiracy is thought to be Jews, or the Knights of Columbus, or Sicil­ians, matters less than the dangers involved in that sort of paranoia. 
John J. McDonald Associate Profe8801'' English 

Wednesday, March 1, 1978 the observer 5 I I 
.1 

Foghat and Starz: Exciting but Unfulfilling 
Foghat and Starz played a short but intense set the other night at the ACC in front of a friendly, vociferous crowd predominated by young teens and pre­pubescents. It was an entertaining if somewhat staid presentation: Foghat choosing to perform a note by note recreation of their best-selling live lp; Starz showcasing much of their new material from their recent Attention Shoppers and exhorting the crowd to run down to River City Records and "pick up on it." In other words, a competent, exciting show, some­what lacking in spontaneity. ·The kind of performance where they turn the house lights on after the first encore and no one boos. 
Starz played a surprisingly strong set disproving that they were ''just another bunch of heavy metal morons," as lead singer Mike Smith somewhat wryly ob­served. I, for one held a somewhat similar opinion, often wondering aloud to myself while chancing upon copies of their records in the stores, just what they did for a living. It was with some shock that I discovered them to be a strong, hard rocking band blessed with a capable vocalist, a driving rhythm section and a flair for writing infectious. unpretentious tunes. They showed the ability to perform softer, more melodic numbers as well with their interpretations of "Johnny All Alone" from their new lp. and "Anyway You Want 
It." 
The softer stuff was not particularly well received however, so the band kept pretty much to the uptempo numbers closing with rousing versions of ''I'm Waitin'" and I'll Be There" off of Attention while Smith threw cans of beer to the crowd and temptingly offered his leather posterior to the eager groupies at ringside. Ah, to be young. beautiful and in a rock and roll band. They should have come back for an encore. 
After a short intermission Foghat took the stage amidst a barrage of smoke, flickering strobe lights, and the strains of Stravinsky, keeping the crowd on their feet by quickly kicking into "Fool For The City." Rod Price got off a stinging solo early in the song and then let lead singer Dave Preverett and the forceful rhythm section of Roger Earl (drums), and Craig MacGregor (bass) take over. ''I'm tired of laying back" sang Dave and indeed he was not alone in expressing these sentiments, the band was really rocking out. 
Wasting little time Foghat kept things moving with "My Baby" a driving blues tune. Price's tasteful slide work was nicely punctuated by the theatrical. driving thrusts of Earl and Preverett (on rhythm guitar) who took center stage whenever Price came to the end of a riff. 
In "Stone Blues" Price really shined. Over the primitive, repititious patterns set down by Earl. Price allowed no one to take the spotlight from him. Running up and down the guitar like a madman, never pausing to stop, Price started to hit notes that weren't even on the guitar. It was only when he finally ran out of room that the other members of the band were permitted to return to the spotlight. 
"It Hurts Me Too." slowed things down a bit. An engaging piece, it featured a fine vocal performance by Preverett who show­ed he can be a sensitive and expressive singer when he isn't shouting out erotic exhortations celebrating sensual physical 


ND Film Series 
The ND Film Society continues its free 

film series tonight at 8 p.m. in room 232 of 
Saint Mary's Moreau Hall. Tonight's 
selection of short films are Chris Marker's 
La Jette, Bertoldt Brecht's The Jewish 
Wife, Richard Lester's Running Jumping, 
Standing Still FUm, Sake's Open Windo, 
and three animated films: Up is Down, 
Omega, and Permutations. 
La Jetee is a tale of time travelling in the bleak years after World War III. The film's unusual plot and style bring home the overwhelming point of the simple awesome difference between being alive and being dead. The Jewish Wife tells of a woman's flight to safety from Hitler's Germany in a time, described by Brecht, "when the arbitrary has the force of law, when humanity dehumanizes itself." This film received awards from the New York American Film Festival and the San Fransisco and Philadelphia International Film Festivals. Running,...Fllm shows the zany antics of a wild bunch ofloonies led by Peter Sellers in the style of an old silent comedy. Omega is a masterpiece of colorful special effects. 

by dom salemi 
expression. 

But sensitivity isn't really where Foghat 
is at. They thrive on beating their audience 
over the head with loud mannered, 
amalgamations of rock, rhythm and blues, 
and boogie. Sometimes it works (especial­
ly when they are singing about sex, since 
their brutal, physical assault on the 
audience parallels its conception of it as a 
bestial, powerful, primitive urge that must 
be satisfied as quickly and painfessly as 
possible), and sometimes it doesn't, like in 
"Honey Hush," a boring, interminable 
piece of sludge that goes nowhere. Full of 
jerky riffs and clinking rhythms the song 
was given the extended "in concert" 
treatment: lots of boring solos and drama­
tic breaks. It is the only bad cut on their 
otherwise fine live lp and was the only 
really dull moment in the evening. Why 
does the band like this song? 
Foghat can, however, turn it on with the 
best ofthem especially when they get down 
to the basics. "I Just Want To Make Love 
To You" which followed the dreadful 
"Honey Hush" is built around a simple 
blues riff and features an even simpler 
vocal chorus. MacGregor and Price teased 
the audience with a little instrumental 
foreplay, one playing the instantly recog­
nizable riff the other slowly responding, 
until finally deciding to satiate the au­
dience's passion by pushing into the song. 
Preverett's throbbing, frenzied rhythm 
playing and MacGregor's pulsating bass 
never skipped a beat even when they went 
down and allowed Price to take a funky 
break in the middle. 
Pulling out of this tantalizing piece, the band slid into "Slow Ride." Starting slowly amid some slippery lead from Price the band built to a furious pace, getting louder and faster until Preverett, under­neath on rhythm, began to gradually slow down to allow Price to hit some furious, driving licks. Catching his breath Pre­verett came back on top and he and Price began a scintillating exchange while lights flashed and smoke burst. It was nothing short of incredible, a wonderful climax to the show. 
But wonderful as this performance was the show ultimately left one feeling ~nfulfil~ed. For there was nothing really mnovattve or spontaneous in Foghat's performance. They played the numbers the .crowd wanted to hear., kept things movmg at ·a fast pace so no one would get bore.d, and then after an hour, split, makmg the encore a predictable rather than appreciative gesture. I mean Foghat "had to come back." No one wanted to be caught paying seven bucks for a show that only lasted an hour. Even the final number, which was obviously intended to be a musical simulation of the sexual act (hope you figured that out by now) was so effortlessly done that it seemed as if the 
band was just going through the motions. 
Still it was an enjoyable evening. Not eve~yone knows how to go through the mottons as Foghat does and they do it well. 

, ( ...·. -. 
r 
Alcohol Awareness Week promotes responsibility 
by Jim Neary 
Several Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students, with the aid of 
Bro. Charles Burke, Mary Ann 
Daly and Notre Dame's Alcohol 
and Drug Counselor Peggy Cronin 
are organizing an Alcohol Aware­
ness Week to run from April 10 
through Apri114. Several activities 
are being planned which will 
demonstrate that an abuse and 
overuse of alcohol exists in th 
ND-SMC community. The pro-· 
gram will then go on to provide 
alternatives for alcohol-related 
activities on campus. 
Ted Howard, one of the student 
organizers of the event, stated, 
"We do not wish to alienate people 
by pointing fingers. Instead, we 
want to raise awareness of the 
abuse and overuse of alcohol." 
Howard acknowledged that alcohol 
has its place in a social environ­
ment. "The purpose of the 
Awareness Week is not to prohibit 
alcohol." he said, "But simply to 
encourage more responsible use of 
it." 
Cronin noted that many students 
who drink do so unwillingly. She 
felt the social environment on 
campus, in many cases pressures 
students into drinking. "One 
student." she related. "told me 
that she once emptied six cans of 
beer and filled them with water just 
to make it look as though she was 
drinking at a party." 
Cronin has found that students give little thought to their drinking habits. She hoped that the Awareness Week will give students an opportunity to examine these habits and to realize that there are alternatives to drinking here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"A lot of activities that don't 1involve drinking don't go over well." Mrs. Cronin stated. "This is not because the students feel that no one else will want to participate if alcohol is not inclu­ded, so they don't bother either." 
Similar Alcohol Awareness Weeks have taken place each of the past two years. " these have been 

Morrissey fire shows hazards 
(continued from pagel) thing," Thinnes commented. "We got about $100 from one hall and $70 dollars came from Lyons·. Some people gave us books and notes since our books were destroyed. And a lot of people were kind enough to let us come over and share some time with them." 
Onda complimented the rector of Morrissey, Fr. Raymond Holtz. "Fr. Ray was in touch with us a lot," Onday said, "And he was pushing the construction people to get the room back in shape. And Fr. Jim Schwartz was the person positive in impact, but there has been no follow-up of these activi­ties Plans for the week includes a series of lectures to be given in the residence halls by Mr. Hickey of Hickey Construction. He will speak about his own experiences with alcohol. 

In addition, progr ns are being planned, one at the ~ :nior Bar and one at SMC's 21 Club, which will feature Dr. Mark Bambenek of the SMC Chemistry Department. He will discuss the effects of alcohol and the causes of hangovers. Breathalizers will be on hand for those who wish to test their level of alcohol intake. 
During one night during the Week, the Nazz will feature enter­tainment interspersed by demon­strations of the problems of alco­hol, along with encouragements and suggestions for alternate forms 
of social activities. On Thursday of the Week, there will be a slide show demonstration given by Fr. Joe Egan. He artistically filmed nature as seen both under the effects of alcohol and through sober eyes. That same day. Fr, Griffin's noon Mass at LaFortune will feature a sermon dealing with alcoholism. The week will culminate with a Happy Hour at the Library where all alcohol drinks will be sold at regular prices, while soft drinks and food will be sold at nominal prices. In fact, food and soft drinks will be available at all of the scheduled functions for little or no charge. Throughout the week, a number of film will be shown dealing with the subject of alcohol. These will be followed by Values Clarification Seminars at which all present are encouraged to discuss the film. Dr. Kathleen Rice of St. Mary's and Mary McCabe of Notre Dame will moderate these discussions. Saint Mary's will give special attention to the problem of alcohol­
an ene cDamels. 




A Fully accredited by AACSB. To apply: ·ONE, YEAR 1. Write to me for application 
2. Take the GMAT test on 3/18/78. Get admission ticket from





MBA? 
"GMAT" ETS Box 966 Princeton, NJ '08540 ' Yes, at Ohio 3. Have transcripts sent to me 
4. Get 3 letters of recommendation

University! 
0 
en route to me: James Lee, MBA Director, CBA, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio 45701. 
For more information call collect 
614/594-5446. 

who arranged our temporary stay r~;;;=r==J~iiiiiiiK;;;;;:;:::::::;:;;::;;:::;;:=:=========;.., 
at the Moreau Seminary." 
Safety precautions 
Today in Onda and Thinnes' freshly-painted room, there are no overloaded outlets. And, said Onda, "We don't have any parti­tions or any burlap in the room." Thinnes added, "That night we were told not to get cheap exten­sion cords." 
Certainly the experience last September have made Onda and Thinnes more fire safety conscious. 
And Thinnes recommended mother fire safety provision. "I think we could use fire escapes for our floor, because if the fire spread across the hass (creating a barier), the peopel down the hall would have no access to an exit and no place to go -they would have to jump off the building." 
Overall, Thinnes believed that the alertness of the Morrissey residents prevented other lives from being threatened. "When everyone heard the alarm, they moved out," he said. "You could tell that the people weren't mes­sing around." 


A Touch of the Poet Eugene O'Neill's search for his roots. Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4 at 8
SMC 
All seats $2.50 Ph T H E A T REd s2 std-fac-staff 284~;~;6
O'Laughlin Au . 
Hair Styling at It's Filllll 


Use our private entrance at the Queen's Castle. 
Tues. & Wed.  8:30;6:30  
Thurs. & Fri.  8:30-8 :30  
Sat.  8:30-5:30  

Yesterday the Placement Bureau sponsored a Government Career Day in the se d f1 L~~ortun~ Ballroom. Among the departments represented were Agriculture, Arm c:o;mer~or~~v1l :erv1ce, Defens~, Health Edu~ation an~ We~fare, Transportation, Treasury,Y~nd justice~' 
e event was orgamzed by Mr. R1chard W1llemm, director of the Placement Bureau and s KadthS~ehen. RoMssman! Career Councilor and rector of Walsh Hall, with assistance from je~n Sch:;i 
lor Men The Knights 

277-1691 272-0312 54533 Terrace Lane Only 5 minutes from campus 
"/ HAVE CALLED YOU BY YOUR NAME 


Brothers of Holy Cross 
Responding through educational, health, social, pastoral and oti1er ser­vice ministries. 
Br. Thomas Maddix, CSC 


Box 308, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


:···································*: 
Freshman Advisory Council : : Presents $ $ * Beginnings ~ * ~ 1978 Freshman Formal ! 
* * 

~ Friday March 3, 1978 ~ * *
*


:9:00pm.-1:00am. Century Center: 
* *
* *

: Tickets $8.00 per couple:
* * 
: Available in the dining halls : : or through your hall representatives : 
* * 
~ GET YOUR TICKET TODAY! ! *************************** ****: Sunshine Promotions Notre Dame Student Union
• 

With Special Guest Star 


BOB WELCH 
also ClOVER 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 -7:30pm NOTRE DAME ACC 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 ~ $6.00 
On Sale Now at Student Ticket Office and at ACC Box Office 

Wednesday, March 1, 1978 the observer
.. 



Cart~r proposes record budget for education, reviving 3 R's 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Jimmy Carter asked Congress yes­terday for a record $12.9 billion federal budget for education and promised that some of the aid will go toward reviving the three R's­reading, 'riting and 'rithmetic. 
If adopted by Congress, the hike would be the biggest increase in federal aid to education since Lyndon Johnson's administration. 
Carter's message to Congress restated his fiscal 1979 budget request for a 24 percent increase in spending on education. It also revealed his proposals for reshap­ing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act in order to channel 
federal money more directly to "those so often shortchanged in our educational system because of social problems or poverty." The president, whose first public office was as a school board member in Sumter County, Ga., said his proposals "will focus our nation's resources on helping our children master the basic skills-reading, writing, and arithmetic-which remain cnticai to their ability to function in a complex society." 
He also reaffirmed his intention to ask Congress to set up a separate Department of Education. 
Carter asked for $6 billion this year. This includes nearly $3.4 billion in aid for compensatory education for poor children, which funnels money to 14,000 of the nation's 16,000 school districts. 
He proposed targeting $400 mil­lion in extra aid to 3,500 districts with large concentrations of poor students. Two-thirds of this money will go to hard-pressed center-city schools, while one-third "will flow to rural and suburban school systems which have similar needs," he said. 
The extra money will increase from 5.6 million to 6.5 million the number of poor students who get remedial education. 
In his effort to improve steadily declining basic educational skills such as reading and writing, Carter 
said the government will fund more research and demonstration pro­
• 
e 
• 
• NOTICES • 
• 
How are my Detroit sweeties Cris, Bruce 

• 
and Pat. May see you soon, get ready! ! 

• 
.....Tricia.


•
• 
Mary Louise and Suzie -Have a super 

• 
day! 


Roomie

•
e Coolie-This time I didn't forget. Happy 
• Anniversary! All my love, Dooley. 
: Typing done in home. Fast, accurate, reasonable. Close to campus....call • 272-7866 anytime.
•• The Student Union is looking for compt­rollers and staff workers. If interested, 
• 
applications available at S.U. Deadline is 

• 
Monday.


•
e WANTED: Ride home to Florida for 
• Spring Break. Call David 8697. 
Student and faculty entertainers: Call the Ellison (288-5207) if interested in per­forming at The Good Earth Pub. 
Bus service to Chicago every Friday. Buses leave the circle at 6:05. For tickets 

• and info call Shep, 8330.
•
e One roomate to share Campus View Apt. 
• Please call 277-3509. 
• Attention NO Judo club members: Judogi prices are as follows; LW2-12.75; LW3­13.50; LW4-14.50; HW3-16.50; HW4­
17.50. Make checks payable to NO Judo club. Add $3.00 promotional fee. 

• Payments due on Monday or Wednesday.
•
• 
Every student can vote in the Indiana 

• 
Primary -if interested, register before 

• 
spring break by calling Moat 4-1-4001. 

• 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051.


.---------------------­
• 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho.... 

• 
232-0746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm. 

TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALLBD86


•e 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary 

• 
Inc., Professional Typing Services IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page 

• 
minumum. Call 232-0893 "When you 

• 
want the best."


• 
COUEGE GRADS e PEACE CORPS AND VISTA 
• 
The Peace Corps and VISTA offer unique • oppotunities for qualified individuals to 

• 
use their knowledge and skill to help in e the developing of nations in Africa, South 

• 
America, Asia and the United States. Build a better future for others as you 

• 
enhance your own. Openings in a variety • of fields. Living expenses and travel 

• 
provided and other benefits. For more 

• 
information on how to apply, contact 

• 
volunteer recruiters at the Library Feb. 28 thru March 2 and at the Placement 

• 
Center March 1 and 2. Sign up for an 

• 
interview NOW! 

Gay community at NO lnfoline Friday, 10-12 pm, 8870. "We're OK, you're 


• 
OK." 


e VOTE BOLVIN CHRISTIAN e 
• 
Resumes and personalized cover letters ­efficient expertise. Robo typed Letter 

• 
Service, 2806 Mishawaka Ave., phone • 233-2550.


• 
1...----------------------------------~~~­
WANTED 
PLEASE!! Need ride to Dallas for break. Jini, 1323. 
Ride needed to Day1on Mar. 3 for ND-UD game. Call Steve 2120. 
Ride needed to New Orleans for break. Call Max, 3360. , 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer and year­round, Europe, S. America, Australia, etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor­mation -write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Need four tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English con­versation. No experience, degree or Japanese required. Send long, stamped, self addressed envelope to Japan-181, 411 W. Center, Centralia, WA 985~1. 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. Call [SMC] 4n4. 
HOTLINE VOLUNTEERS NEEDED: B~ come a hotline listener and learn skills to help people in our commmunity. Next training begins March 21 and goes thru April 6, Tuesdays and Thursday even­ings. Arrangements will be made for any student who will be gone over break. Interested, Call Hotline 232-3344. 
Need ride for three to the Big Apple, New York City for Spring Break. We can't afford the train so call Tom, Doug or John at 3414. 
WANTED: Riders to and from Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. 24 toot Winnebago . Call Abe, 287-4828. 
Need ride to Tampa-St. Pete for spring break. Bob 1145. 
WANTED: GA tix for Loyola. Call Jack 1724. 
Need riders to Florida, 232-8780. Phil -­Leave name and number. 
Need ride to Tampa, St. Pete for break. Bob 1145. 
Need ride for 2 to Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. Pat 6711. 
Seriously in .need of two GA Loyola tickets. Call 6Z40. 
Need ride to Hartford, Conn. tor break. Call Marybeth 6877. 
Need ride to Chicago this Friday, March 
3. Call Mike 6186. 
Need ride to U of I, Champaign this weekend -March 2,3, or4. Cali Cindy, 7434 or 7961. 
Two ·girls need ride to Chicago on March 3. Call 4-1-5330 or 4-1-5341. 
Need ride to St. Louis, So. 111. area, March 2,3. Call 6889. 
. 
grams in these areas. 
Congress, which has provided more for education than Repub­lican presidents wanted from 1969 through 1977, is expected to be receptive to Carter's request, a)­though a split is developing on aid to college students. 
Carter wants to increase aid to college students by $1.46 billion, with much of the new money going for $250 grants to students from 
middle income families. 
However, there is strong support in Congress for giving tax credits to families of college students to help them pay college tuition. Carter strongly opposes the tax credits. 
Health, Education and Welfare Secretary Joseph A. Califano, once a Johnson aide, said at a news briefing in the White House: 
"This is an extraordinary educa­tion budget, unprecedented since 1965 ... It's one of those moments in which I wish Lyndon Johnson were alive to see what President Carter has done for the federal commit­ment that began 12 years ago." 


:• • •c••I•a••s••s•·~··,·l:e••d•••A••d••S•• • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • ~R:o:A~ • • • • • • •B:n~: • • • • • • • • • •: 

FOR SALE 
'65 Chevy Impala, 327,45,000 original miles. Great mechanical shape, clean, no dents, very little rust. Many new parts. Priced to sell $800. 283-8830, evenings. 
FOR SALE: BIG 981 turntable only three months old. Comes with SHURE M91ED cartridge and walnut base and dustcover. Must sell . Call 3058. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC­TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
Steal your remaining books for the semester. Pandora's is having a 1/2 price used book sale. Selected new books (Tom Robbins, Doonesbury, etc) at 25 percent off. Down from Corby's 233­2342. 
Stereo equipment -Major brand name discounts on fully guarranteed, _factory sealed auto-video equipment. Elliot Enterprises, Pack Court, Buchanon Mich, 49107. Call Niles (tal free) 683-0121 . 
Tec,hnics SL-23 Turntable . Need money for Florida. Call Kurt 287-8698. 
WHY PAY MORE? FLANNER RE­CORDS has all $7.98 list lp's tor only $5.29. All $6.98 list lp's for only $4.59 (plus tax). Flanner Records, 322 Flanner, phone 2741. 
0 '1nasonic compact stereo system. Eight r~ AM-FM receiver, turntable, thrus­~kers. 6 months old. $150. 3001. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: One Wallet, black with identifying cards (B. Taylor) somewhere between Sarin and the ACC. I don't care about the money, but I need the wallet. Call 8467. 
FOUND: Single key lying in the D-1 parking lot. Call Paul at 1380. 
LOST: Silver wire rimmed glasses bet­ween stadium and law school. Please call 272-0239. 
LOST: One expensive black ski glove (right ha[ld). Lost near North Dining Hall on Tuesday, Feb. 21. A great service to my hand if found. Call 1653. 
FOUND: About three weeks ago behing the bookstore, a pair of women's gloves, tan with leather palm. Call 8472. 
LOST; One pair of desert boots at ACC. Call Craig at 8862. 
LOST: Men's digital wristwatch at Lib­rary Bar. Will identify engravings. Reward .... 4-4904. 
LOST: A calculator during Econ. test 2-23. If you picked one up that is not yours call 3506. 

AN TOSTAL carnival discussed at HPC meetin 
continued from page 1) •· unable to reach him until he ontacted her yesterday afternoon 
o inform her that he would address he HPC last night. Stating that the proposed dvisory board was a "good idea," 
ogan said, "We've always been pen to student input. We need all he cooperation we can get to put hings in the newspaper, and we 
haven't had that cooperation this ear from Dave Bender or Tom Gryp." 
Russell stated, "I see two differ ent issues working here." He· firs noted the efforts of both sides "t set the record straight" concernin Gryp's letter, and secondly, th proposed commission "to provid some input." "I still think th (proposed) commission is a goo idea," he said adding that "I' going to get everyone together an settle this misunderstanding out­side of an HPC meetin . " 
REJF.(;I1{)N Nl{;llf ~ 
~ to SENIOR B' 
~ D '-AIII-..o ti'U\. .
friday night. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARGARET!!!!!! (One day late but... ...hope it was a good
one!) 
Mark _H_&_R_B_e-vo--st-ic_k_w-it_h_t_h_e-f-l'rs_t_o_f_f__
·lve 

reasons why you should own abevo stick. No. 1 -It is all natural, made of 100 percent wood. 
Dear Jap, Say hello to your buddy for me.....you know, "Mr. Personality" 
Need ride to Ann Arbor this weekend. Call Kate 1264. 
UMOC is on the prowl! Call 2195 for details! 
Ugly man is coming ....save your pennies. 
Now is the time for all uglies to get those pennies. 
SOPHOMORES!! 
Get your gym shorts and formal tickets on sale this week 12-4 in the class office in LaFortune. 
DESPERATELY need ride to So. Bend at !light. Call 8-2, will pay 233-7949. 
Beautifol Blue Eyes ­I'm yours forever. Happy 18 months. Love, always, 3-8-1. 
Overeaters anonymous meeting is now on campus. Call 289-6021 for time and place. 
To the brickhouse; Thanks for your support in the good • times and the bad. I love you Buns 
MAUREEN AND KATIE NEED RIDE TO THE DAYTON GAME. LEAVING SAT­URDAY?!?!?!!! [6797] 
Dear DAA 
It was nice to finally meet the mysterious voice at the other end of the line. Sincerely, 
TMK 

Ms. Lust, Happy Birthday and keep smiling. 
Jim Young-WNDU 
Even if you bomb out as a quarterback you can always follow in the footsteps of Broadway Joe and show off your legs in pantie-hose commercials. 
Love, L'eggs 

Jane P. You keep your eyes off John's shorts ' girl! ' Wide eyed and innocent 
The Bevo stick (pronounced BEEVO but spelled B-E-V-0) world renowned for its amazing feats. Phone 1728. H&R Bevo with reason #6 why you should purchase a Bevo. A free date with Gerry comes with every Bevo stick. 
The homework should be finished by April 2. Will there be an exam? K 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7 pm. . Anyone wishing to make an appomtment for confession may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820 for times. 
Painter of an evening, Am I but one in your gallery? 
Perplexed gazer 

I can't tell you how convenient it has • been to have you home at night to play e backgammon with! But we have got to • 
start earlier. • 
'George, • 
Happy Birthday. I think when this is • 
printed I will owe. • 
Joan • 

PS: 16 days left 
-----------------------• 
George-e 
If you have your birthday party at • 

Shirley's I promise I will make a special e 
guest appearance. Happy 22nd! • 
Barbara (the long lost one) • 

"Just remember I love you" [and then I • 
won't fall into despair!] Thanks & • 
anytime for tunafish • 
Sheila, • Happy 22nd Birthday. Have a great • day! Much love, e· Your adopted fourth roomate • 
Lisa Campagna -• I love you, ou cute little thing but-e you'll never understand. Signed, ' • A nice guy with good intentions e 
MJ & Veronica • Burn baby, burn! Oh God, I feel flush-• can you help?-• TB "Disco kid" • 
•

You must see Buchenhagen in the town of • 
Migaido, near the city of Jereal. He will 
tell you that Born-Christians must be • 
elected. Have pity on the child-he must • 
die. e 
HUH? e 


----------------------· 
Bill Roche-• 
Congrats on SUD. What's next? • Governor's mansion in Georgia? Thee White House? How about "Willy Beer" • later? 
Paul McCartney : 

Killer Bob, • I've admired you from afar, and I'd like e togettoknowyouandyourJCBM. Love, • 
A.G. e 

Snuggley-• 
Only 300 days to E-Day. Kepp • counting. I love you. e Upper clqss twit • 
Children from ND-SMC families from • 3-6th grades interested in joining a e children's choir, please call Fr. Griffin e (283-7066) or come to a meeting 3:30 • Thursday in the Kof Cbuilding. 
------~------------­
.

Don't miss this year's neighborhood • roots! There ·are a limited number of e spaces left. Registration is at both dining • halls. Call Teresea at 7905 or Kevin at • 8595 for more info. 

------------------· 
------------------· 
HEY MILLS, e 
20 hours of sleep in aweek is plenty as • 
long as you have enough peanut butter. • 
LAP e 


··································································~·· 
--------.. 

the observer Wednesday, March 1, 1978 
Fencers' streak reaches 81 matches 
by Paul Mullaney Peabody, Mass., native disposed of 
Sports Writer Cawley 2-5 and set the pace for the 
Gold and Blue, winning all of the 
Sports enthusiasts can quickly bouts. Cawley had beaten Sullivan 
tell you all about the amazing 88 in last year's NCAA tournament. 
game basketball winning streak of With his impressive performance 








_U"'-II -~~ 
UCLA, the recent 28 game ram­Saturday, Sullivan lifted his season 
~. ~ 
page of the Montreal Canadiens, mark to 32-0. The "best sabre man _ .., 't "S . ,.and possibly Ieven the string of 201 in the country," according to 
• 
dual swim meets set by Yale a few DeCicco, now owns a 132-2 career 
decades back. slate, the best in Irish fencing 
But it's taken a little extra history. 
shouting by the Notre Dame fen­Sullivan, last year's NCAA gold 
cing team for people to note an medalist in sabre, was not the only 
accomplishment that's been in the Notre Dame fencer with his act 
making for quite some time now. together Saturday. Foil captain 
The Irish swordsmen haven't been and defending gold medalist Pat 
j

on the losing side of the coin since Gerard won all of seven decisions, 
January 22, 1975, when they fell to including a 1-5 win over his brother ...;:;:,:::. ' 
New York University, 16-11. Since Greg, a sophomore from Illinois. ­
then coach Mike DeCicco's jugger­The Irish epeeists, who went 
naut has won 81 consecutive meets, 23-4 on the day, received several 
f
including a sweep of three teams key performances. Senior captain 
this past Saturday at Champaign, Bill Kica and classmate John Strass 
Ill. each went without defeat in six 
The defending national cham­bouts, while sophomore Bjorne 
pions pummelled Washington Uni­Vaggo won five out of six. 
versity of St. Louis, 24-3, before Regardless of Saturday's results, 

whipping Illinois and Wisconsin by the opponent that the Irish have 
respective marks of 20-7 and 19-9. been waiting for all year is waiting The Notre Dame fen~ing team performed superbly last weekend, extending their winning streak to 
The victories make the Irish un­in the wings. DeCicco's troops 81 matches. However, the Irish will have another tough test this weekend against.Wayne State. 
blemished in 14 starts this year. travel to Detroit on Friday to meet 
Junior sabreman Mike Sullivan, Wayne State, the only other fenc­way is first-year foilsman Ernie NCAA title and been runnerup better than us they'll win. That's 
who was to receive a severe test ing unbeaten in the country. Simon, who has gone undefeated in twice, is academically ineligible. it. We'll find out Friday. I would 
from Illinois sophomore Kevin Three exceptional freshman 30 bouts. Simon, Australia's His showdown with Sullivan had like to go into the nationals 
Cawley, wasted little time in show­fencers have led Wayne to win all national foil champion, has been greatly anticipated. undefeated, though!'' 
ing who was superior. The of ten meets this year. Leading the received excellent support from Nevertheless, DeCicco expects Friday's trip to Detroit precedes 
junior Carl Klutke, who has suf­the toughest of competition this a Saturday confrontation in Cleve­
fered onlv one setback in 30 bouts. Friday. "They're two strong in land with Case-Western Reserve 
The two-have combined to lead each of the three weapons,'' he and Oberlin college. 
Wayne's foil squad to a 78-12 anticipated. ''The third man is Notre Dame's women fencers 
mark, compared to a Notre Dame their weakness. If we can win six of were dealt a 6-3 setback Saturday
Probing the NCAA 
foil record of 95-22. the nine bouts against their num­by Wisconsin. The loss puts the 
Freshman Gil Pezza, an interna­ber three men, we'll be in good Irish swordswomen at 6-2 on the 
tional epeeist from Italy, boasts a shape." 1978 campaign. 
27-3 mark for Wayne State, while DeCicco, former Irish fencing Wayne State's female fencers
:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=======:==================:::;:;::===::;::=====:=:=:::=::;:;:;:;:;:;::=====:=:=:::=:=:=::;:;:Towle's Rags 
classmate Tom Kleckner has won great himself, admits that Wayne will pose a stern challenge for Tom 
Last semester this column touched briefly on the NCAA investigation of State has as good of a as Coye's Notre Dame women.
24 of 30 bouts for sabre. chance Led Nevada Las Vegas and its basketball coach, Jerry Tarkanian. At that time, Yuri Rabinovich, senior Wayne anyone to knock off the Irish. by Noreen Hydel's 22-4 fencing,it was apparent that the NCAA enforcement department was out to 'get' State sabreman who has won an He said yesterday, "If they're Wayne is 8-1 on the year.
Tarkanian in what resembled a personal vendetta going back to his coaching days at probation-bound Long Beach State. In going after and then penalizing Tarkanian and Nevada-Las Vegas, the NCAA touched off the furor of one too many Nevada-Las Vegas rooters. Representative 
Fighting Sioux ambush Irish, 4-2 James Santini (D.,Nev.) retaliated by instigating congressional hearings into the NCAA. And now, it's the NCAA that is being investigated. by Chip Scanlon penalty box for hooking at 17:55 Badgers. who are in a fight with 
A House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations initiated and and Irish Coach Lefty Smith pulled Michigan Tech for second place. hearings on Monday, not concerning the Tarkanian case by itself, but the Ted Robinson Peterson for a two-man advantage Meanwhile, Colorado College will whole spectrum of enforcement tactics used by the NCAA over all of its Sports Writers with 39 seconds left. play a home-and-home series with member schools. In the last several years, questions surrounding NCAA But Dakota's Paul Chadwick had league-leading Denver, North investigative and enforcement methods have been raised because of what The Notre Dame hockey team other ideas. He intercepted a Jeff ' Dakota will host Wisconsin, Duluth I like to term 'inconsistent investigative and punishment guidelines', i.e. dropped a hard-fought 4-2 decision Brownschidle pass and scored on will host Tech and Michigan and the Nevada-Las Vegas case as compared to the North Carolina State to the North Dakota Fighting Sioux the vacant Irish cage with 22 Michigan State will play a home­basketball case five years ago. Was the NCAA trying to say that Jerry in Grand Forks last night. The loss seconds remaining to seal the and-home series. Tarkanian 'cheats' that much more than did Norm Sloan with David was the third consecutive setback verdict. One Irish win in Madison would Thompson and Tom Burleson? After all, the NCAA never really tried to for the Irish as they failed to wrap The game's outcome seriously assure the Irish of a playoff berth. force N.C. State to fire Sloan as they did with Nevada-Las Vegas. up a WCHA playoff berth. hampers Notre Dame's hopes of But .. the final league standings 
According to Brent Clark, star witness at the Congressional hearings As a result, the second division capturing fifth place in the WCHA. probably won't be known until the and a former member of the NCAA's investigating staff, there have been of the WCHA is in a frantic state. The Irish must close out the season Sunday afternoon Notre Dame­numerous cases brought before the N~AA Committee on Infractions that Only four points separate fifth­in Madison against the Wisconsin Wisconsin clash concludes. have either been mistreated through flimsy evidence or completely place Colorado College and ninth­<P o;missed in past years. A recent Sports illustrated article by John place Michigan with the Irish in Underwood quoted Oark as such and added that Clark has accused the sixth place, one point behind NCAA of determining which schools get penalized and the severity of the Colorado.. punishments purely on whim and other unsubstantiated evidence. If what It was an outstanding night for Clark says is true, then the NCAA faces serious legal problems and a who! Irish goalie John Peterson who backlog of mistreated cases will become publicized. made 41 saves while surrending 
Clark's main beef is that there ·have been 'sacred cows' (referring to three goals. His counterpart in the national powerhouses in collegiate sports) which have committed Dakota nets, Bill Stankoven, made wrongdoings only to remain unpenalized because the NCAA does not 29 saves in the last two periods to want to hurt the images of prestigious schools. In other words, Clark says shut off the Irish scoring threats. that the NCAA Infractions Committee used a double standard punishment Bob Baumgartner got Notre system that protects the big schools while 'preying on the weak and the Dame on the board only 46 seconds vulnerable'. into the game as he deflected a 
Clark has personally investigated many of the NCAA cases regarding Greg Meredith pass past Stanko­member schools and he claims that given six weeks, he can put any school ven for a 1-0 Irish lead. by Suzanna Behnke the Notre Dame victory. i the country on probation (Sports illustrated, Feb. 27, 1978). But one has North Dakota defenseman Brad Sports Writer The Small College Women's to question the validity of Clark's sacred cow theory. First of all, it does Cox evened the score at 12:34 State Basketball Championships little to explain the punishments meted out in past years to Oklahoma, before Meredith bounced a right­The women's basketball team will be held this weekend at St. :vtichigan State and Kentucky, all for football. At least I would rate those wing pass off Stankoven's skate for breezed through the district play­Joseph's College. Notre Dame !>chools as sacred cows in keeping with the definition. a 2-1 Notre Dame lead at the 17:46 offs Friday, beating Huntington plays Friday at noon against 
Secondly, three members of the NCAA Infractions Committee are mark of the opening period. College .62-41, and St. Francis Vincennes University. St. Joseph's Pmploycd by well-known schools that have themselves been put on The lead lasted less than one College 65-52. There was no need College will meet Franklin College, '1robation or punished in other ways in recent years. One has to wgnder if minute as Irish defenseman Scott for a play-off game in the pool the defending State Champs, at 8 ']ark is being so critical of his former employers because he was turned Cameron was sent to the penalty because Goshen College lost by one a.m. Saturday. The winners will 
!own in trying to land the head position of the NCAA's enforcement box for hooking. At 18:40, Dako­point to St. Francis earlier in the advance to the state finals at 1 :30 department last year. Could he be so bitter so as to make outlandish ta's Mike Stone beat Peterson on day. p.m. The winner of state goes on ~ccusations or will the facts bear him out? Why didn't Clark make the the power play to knot the score at Molly Cashmen and Jayne to the regionals next weekend in f.1cts public sooner concerning the NCAA? Could it be he wanted to hold 2-2. Politiski both played two fine West Virginia. off with .some of the evidence he had gathered against schools so he could Afte'r a scoreless middle period, games, scoring 15 points apiece Coach Sharon Petro looks at the use it against the NCAA if his ambitions within the organization were not North Dakota's Mark Taylor origi­against Huntington and 12 points district competition as good met? nated a play that resulted in the each against St. Francis. The other­psychological preparation for this 
These and other questions are now being answered by the winning goal of the game. Taylor double-figure scorer of the day was weekend's tournament. "The girls Congressional probe. During the hearings on Monday, another former made a beautiful stick-handling Carol Lally, who registered 16 were a little sluggish last weekend, field investigator for the NCAA, Douglas Dunlop, denied a charge made move around Irish defenseman points against Huntington. Chris but now they know what to expect by Clark that he offered to aid Clemson's "Tree" Rollins in contract talks Dick Howe and fired a shot on net. Mannes of St. Francis was high and we're going to go out and play with pro teams in exchange for incriminating evidence against Clemson. Peterson made the initial save but scorer of the tournament with 36 the type of basketball that has 
Clark also said that one investigator withheld information concerning a Rick Zaparniuk converted on the points, 17 against Notre Dame. brought us victories all season." Mississippi football player from the NCAA after being provided with the rebound for a 3-2 Dakota lead. The Irish had some difficulty with When asked about the strength of services of a young lady (AP wire story, Feb. 27, 1978). This being the Notre Dame had various scoring St. Francis and led by only two the defending champions, Franklin case. Clark, himself a f~>rmpr field investigator, should also be questioned opportunities in the third period points at halftime. Politiski college, Petro replied,-"With for withholding evid 3ven then, that doesn't make the NCAA's with the best opportunity coming in sprained her ankle early in the Jayne Politiski recovered from her position any more secure as a fair, law-abiding body. The Congressional the final two minutes. Dakota's second half and at this point the sprain, we'll be at full strength and hearin ould pro e the answers. Paul Kryworouchka went to the Iri$h started to rally which insured ready to win state." 










