----~----------------------------~--------------­

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre cLune and st. mary's . 
Vol. XIII, No. 31 Tuesday, Ckiober10, 1978 

CLC acts on proposals, directives 
by Kathleen ConneDy mer believe that the Dean of any printed rule or regulation that directives simply restate rules Rule 1 of du Lac states that the Senior Staff Reporter Students has the authority to make without first presenting it for and serve as tools for enforcement. directive carries the force of a new rules. approval to the CLC. The proposal "The CLC has complete jurisdic­University regulation. The Campus Life Council met for The SLC was started as a was presented to the Council and tion over rules and regulations," A Council committee then was 
two and a half hours last night in productive channel for student approved with one dissenting vote. Roemer noted. formed to mvestigate the legisla­
Howard Hall to discuss and vote on unrest in the 1960's. Last year, Roemer pointed ,out that his Gene Gorski, rector of Howard tive authority of the Dean of 
four major proposals on parietals, after review by former Student office has never effected any Hall, inquired about the necessity Students under Rule 1 and to 
directives and a CLC statement of Body President Dave Bender, the changes in du Lac unless it had first of 'the proposal, which would clarify the wording. 
purpose and procedure. Student Government and the SLC, been approved by the CLC or SLC. require the Dean of Students to The proposal was accepted with The first business tackled by the it was determined that with the Fr. Thomas Tallarida, rector of submit directives to the CLC before the understanding that the wording council was a proposal to clarify the passing of student unrest, the SLC Zahm Hall, requested clarification issuance. Gorski explained that if a or Rule 1 would be examined. purpose of the CLC. CLC chairman was no longer responding to the as to how they would be expected to directive is meant to enforce and Members of the Council cited and Student Body President Andy needs ofthe students. A new body, make changes in Universivy rules not to legislate, then approval by last year's ieg directive as being McKenna reviewed the jurisdiction the CLC, was instituted and and regulations. Roemer indicated the CLC, as a legislative body, is inconsistent with Roemer's state­of the defunct Student Life Council directed to re-focus on student that, as in the past, the CLC itself is not necessary. [ continued on page 6] 
in an effort to define the nature of affairs and hall life. responsible for forming a commit­last year's change from the SLC to The major portion of the proposal tee and' making a decision, the CLC. deals with the nature of the CLC, deciding as a whole or choosing ''The SLC initiated the language which is formally stated as the another alternative. "It has always 
Hesburgh calls for
of all University rules and regula­proper channel for initiating any been a Council decision," he 
tions," McKenna stated. The changes in rules and regulations. stated. proposal stated that the Dean of Also, the main area of concern for The next proposal presented for 

University changes 
Students may exercise discretion in the Council was restated as being discussion involved establishing a 
the enforcement of rules and University rules and regulations, procedure for dealing with Univer­by Tom Jackman a complete revision of the Affirma­
regulations and may issue especially those dealing with hall sity directives from the Office of Staff Reporter tive Action committee so that these 
directives toward that end. Later life. the Dean of Students. goals could be reached as soon as 
discussion among Council mem­A key sentence in the proposal Discussion on this topic resulted Making his annual address to the possible. 
bers revealed that neither the CLC states that the Office of Student in some ambivalence in the nature Faculty Senate yesterday in Wash­He also thanked the Congrega­
nor Dean of Students James Roe-Affairs will not attempt to change of such a directive. Roemer stated ington Hall, Notre Dame President tion of Holy Cross for their gener­Fr. Theodore Hesburgh called for ous donations to the University. In many changes in the University in the past 10 years, Notre Dame has order that it may uphold its been the beneficiary of almost $8 standing as one of the "top 100 million from the C.S.C., and universities in the country." $541 ,586 this year. He asked the Hesburgh's proposals came as a faculty to continue to support the result of a discussion of University United Way campaign, although issues by 30 members of the participation dropped noticeably administration, including Deans last year. and Trustees, during a four-day Another of Hesburgh' s main vacation in Wisconsin. Hesburgh concerns was inflation. He cited pointed out the need for a new the rise in fuel costs of SA-5 million residence hall, thus recognizing the per year, the "monumental" will of the Board of Trustees. He jumps in Social Security rates, the added, though, that Grace and 10 percent per year increase in Flanner combined provide 1,050 Blue Cross-Blue Shield costs and beds at an initial cost of $6.5 the University's $1.5 million loan million. Today, one dorm alone of from the government as making similar proportions would cost this "budget problem the most between $7-8 million. difficult of the past five years. The Hesburgh discussed the possi­only constraint the Board of Trus­bility of a moratorium on courses, tees places on us is that we have to saying that there are too many at operate in the black... H we don't, present, and studentsultimate~yend we might not be here in five or ten up carrying too many credit· hours. years." ' He also said that "freshmen should Hesburgh called the Campaign be given a first-rate orientation," for Notre Dame "unusually and so that they might make better uniquely successful," and pointed judgements for their futures. to several other colleges which Hesburgh also asked his audi­haven't been as successful in ence to cut dowi:t on the number of attaining their goals in the projec­committees they have formed, ted period of time. eliminating those which are "not Hesburgh also asked several fruitful." He added, "H all the questions of institutions of higher administrators worked harder, we learning: Whom should we be wouldn't need so many commit­teaching? What should be taught? tees." Quality and equality--either or Making this speech for the 27th both? He quoted from the Declara­year, Hesburgh also commented on tion of Independence, "We hold the University's investments in these troths to be self-evident, that South African-related companies, a all men are created equal," and source of controversy on camp11ses said that it took the better part of across the country. Stu!lent two centuries to fulfill this prophecy. protests, sometimes compared to 
He hoped that we would now
the Vietnam demonstrations of the 

continue in the same direction, but
by Jean Powley Saturday, the Regents wilj attend a special mass '60s, have pressured several Uni­
at the same time not sacrifice the
St. Mary's Editor in their honor. They will ~hen go into executive versities into divesting their 
quality of education for quantity. 
session to discuss the "library and a self-study interests in these companies. 
St. Mary's Board of Regents, the college's highest program they have institutei:l for the board. However, Hesburgh spent two Hesburgh quoted the late administrative body, will meet this Friday and This will be the first Board of Regents meeting for weeks with educators from the 'Groucho Marx's famous line, "Any Saturday to discuss several major proposals. four of its newest members. United States and South Africa, club that would have me as a 
member, I wouldn't join," and
The question of a new library facility will top the Edward J. Hussey. father of a former student is terming it a "very fine experi­
one of the new members. A resident of Goshen. IN, ence." He noted, "Our trnstees added, "Hwe insist on quality, we
list of agenda items. with a proposal for changes to 
he is president of Liberty Homes, Inc. worked all summer on presenting a must also insist on equality, or the
student affairs policy and a proposal to extend 
Richard D. Pope Jr.. father of Julie Pope, a junior policy which would hold up under total argument proves false. We
tenure to part-time faculty following close behind. 
at St. Mary's, has also been recently appointed to close scrutiny by anyone," and must achieve both simultane­
The Regents will also consider a proposal for a 
the board. President and chairman of the board of though he did not reveal what that ously."
conflict-of-interest policy for the board. Finally, 
Florida Cypress Gardens Ski Division, he is a policy was, he implied that Notre He concluded by saying, "As
they will design budget guidelines and discuss the 
resident of Winter Haven, FL. Dame would not divest its invest­one who has spent his life, since
college's five-year financial forecast. 
Jerry Hammes, a South Bend businessman,' is the ments. the age of 18, in a university, if I 
Friday afternoon they will meet with the faculty 
third new appointee. He has seryed on the St. Hesburgh admitted that the Uni­had to do it all over again, there's
for an informal social hour in Stapletom Lounge, 
Mary's Gymnasium Building Committee and several versity failed to reach its goals for no place I would rather be." He
during which Isis Quinteros, associate professor of 
other committees over the past few years. Affirmative Action employment then quoted from a poet who said
Spanish, will be presented with the Maria Pieta 
Senior class President Donna Noonan of Elm­this year. Eight-five women were '"A University is a splendid
award for excellence in teaching lower level courses. 
hurst, IL,' is the final Regent. A business and employed at Notre Dame, short of place.' Our most noble task is to
The presentation will take place at 5 p.m. our very best... so 
theater major. she has acted in several productions the goal of 89; and 47 minority give that this Dinner at the home of St. Mary's President John of the St. Mary's-Notre Dame Theater and was also teachers had been hired, well short University remains 'a splendid 
M. Duggan will follow the social hour. class president during her junior year. of the goal of79.Hesburghcalled for place."' 

Tuesday,October10~ 1978-......................................................-..........~.----------­
the observer 

. I 
,_News Briefs _____ 
I===========================World 
OPEC threatens cutback 
VIENNA* Austria (AP] -The OPEC oil cartel threatened yesterday to begin cutting back crude oil supplies to industrialized nations if they don't make it easier for OPEC to get into the "downstream" end of the business--producing and selling gasoline and other finished petroleum products. There was no immediate official reaction in the West to the OPEC statements. The U.S. Energy Department had no comment. But one American oil expert has warned that such ambitions by the oil-exporting states to take on a greater role as middlemen and retailers of oil products could spark an "economic conflict" between OPEC countries trying to boost their new industries and the traditional refining countries, such as the United States. 

=============================:=::: National 
Carter to open· talks 
WASHINGTON (AP] -President Carter will personally open the Mideast peace talks beginning here Thursday between the defense and foreign ministers of Egypt and Israel, a White House official said yesterday. Carter, whose popularity rose dramatically after the Camp David accords were announced Sept. 17, will participate in the opening of the conference "to underline the importance that we place on it and our continuing role in it," said the official. Israeli Defense Minister Ezer W eizman said Monday that Israel and Egypt have "lots of detail" to negotiate before signing a peace treaty. 

Demonstration a success 
MADISON, Ind. (AP)-Declaring last weekend's sit-in a success, a spokesman for an anti-nuclear group said yesterday the next demonstration at the Marble Hill nuclear power plant along the Ohio River will be another occupation but with at least 500 protesters. "It was well planned, very peaceful, under cont~ol, " said Mark McLean, spokesman for the Paddlewheel Alhance, referring to the Saturday demonstration. He said the alliance will focus its attention now on the trials Nov. 13-16 for the 31 demonstrators arrestested last weekend. Most of the protesters will plead innocent when they are arraigned in Jefferson County Court today, he said. 

Weather 
Variable cloudiness with 40 percent chance of showers and thundershowers through tomorrow. Highs today and tomorrow in the upper 60s to around 70. Lows tonight around 50. 

,.On Campus Today ___,_,.
_  
9am  volleyball, smc invitational tournament, angela ath. facility  
3:45pm  forum, genesis 3:5 -jurisprudence as' a choice of gods," prof. edwar,d j. murphy, 105 law bldg.  
4pm  lecture, "the great powers and the middle east," dr. john campbell, council on foreigh affairs, mem. lib.  
4:30pm  bio seminar, "the neurobiology of the cricket's ear," dr. harald esch, 278 galvin  
4:45pm  field hockey, smc 'vs. hope college, madeleva fld.  
5:15pm  mass, for third world countries, fr. l'iesburgh, sacred heart church  
6 pm  meeting, south dng. hall committee of student food adv. board, faculty dng. rm. in south dng. hall  
6:30pm  meeting, alpha phi omega, zahm basement  
7 pm  workshop, resume writing and interview skills, paul reynolds, howard hall  mr.  
7 pm  film/lecture, lib. aud.  "ass'assination of  john  f.  kennedy,"  
9-11 pm  talent show, irish follies, nazz  
10:30 pm  discussion, "opportunities for engineers in manu_­factring," proctor & gamble, lyons hall chapel  
12 am  wsnd album hr, american stars 'n bars, neil young, am 640  

Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Grulev Features Editor 

In SU symposium 
JFK conspiracy discussed 
by Tim Sullivan Staff Reporter 
"Politics of Conspiracy", a lect­ure on all types of clandestine operations, will begin a two-day symposium on assassinations today at 3:30 p.m. in La Fortune Little Theater. Harvey Yazijian, principal member of the Assassination Infor­mation Bureau (AlB), will discuss various national cover-ups and secretive operations. 
Sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission, the sym­posium will continue tonight with a multi-media presentatjon, "Who Killed JFK?", which explores photographic and film evidence for a conspiracy to assassinate Presi­dent John F. Kennedy. The program is scheduled for 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium and will be presented by the AlB and Harvey Yazijian. 
According to John Kuluz, aca­demic commissioner, "This prog­ram will contain all the new evidence from the recent Senate hearings on assassinations. These men (in the AlB) are intimately 
*The Observer Night Editor: Steve Odland Asst. Night Editor: Bill Devitt layout Staff: Anne Griffin, John Smith, Dave Berg, Mar­go Krach, Dave Brosh Sports layout: Mark Perry Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pip Rosie Rodgers, Pete Me Fadden E.M.T.:me (M.N.: you're the only thing I'm desperate for) Day Editor: John Ferroli Copy Reader Debbie Dahrling Ad layout: David E. Wood Photographer: Dave Rumbach Sherry, come back  
The Observer is publlshec! Mon­day throu11h Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 per year (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S56. Second class postage paid, Notno Do~~me, Indiana, 46556. The Observer is a member of the Anoclatad Press. All rep•-o­duction rights are maurved.  
INTRODUCING THE FIRST EXTRA-STRENGTH ADULT LIQUID PAIN RELIEVER! 8oz: *229 16 oz. *359  
Available at South Bend's Mar-Main Phar­macy, 426 N. Michigan (park at McDonald's} and the Georgetown Pharmacy, Georgetown Shopping Center. Stu­dent checks cashed with SMC-ND I. D. card.  

involved with all the hearings and 
proceedings on this topic. This is 
the first lecture to include all this 
new information since the hear­
ings. This should be a dynamite 
presentation." • 
"Who Killed JFK?" will investi­gate the famous Zapruder home movie of the JFK assassination for clues to the conspiracy theory, as well as other evidence. A reception will follow the presentation in the Library Auditorium. 
Tommorrow evening at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall, Mark Lane, attorney for James Earl Ray, will present evidence for a conspiracy to kill Martin Luther King, Jr. in a lecture entitled, "The King Assas­sination." 
Lane is one of America's foremost authorities on assassination. He is the author of the best-selling Rush to Judgement, which dealt prin­cipally with JFK investigations. As Ray's lawyer, he has ammassed considerable evidence in his client's favor in anticipation of a new trial. 
Kuluz stated that "with the new evidence recently brought out by the hearings, these lectures should be very good." He also asked that those attending should arrive early 
-' 

since the seating capacities of the various auditoriums are limited. 
Future  Academic  Commission  
programs  include  Dr.  Timothy  
Leary  on  Nov.  13  and  reviewer  

Henry Edwards on Nov. 14. Presidential condidate Phillip Cran e will speak on Dec. 5 and a program on the Star of Bethlehem is scheduled for Dec. 13. 
need posters in a hurry? 

• • !
•nsly·pr•nls 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
100 -11 x17 posters 
only $10.00 203 n. main nowntown SoBend 289-6977 
Stanford MBA 
REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS MONDAY, OCTOBER 16 
A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. 
Appointments may be made through The Placement Office 
The MBA Program is a two-year general management course of studies designed for men and women who wish to develop management skills to meet the broad respon­sibilities required in both the private and pubUc sectors today and in the future. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINE~S STANFORD UNIVERSITY Stanford, California 94305 
r........~...........,......,.......,......,...........~~·............,..-..._·-·-·~· .......... -·----~·-1 
~ · PITTSBURGH CLUB ~ ~ Fall Break Bus ~ ~sign-ups: Sunda~. Oct. 15 at 4:00 in , ~ 
\ Lafortune Amphitheatre ~ 
~Buses will leaue ND/SMC at 5 pm Frida~ Oct. 20 ~ ~Buses will return from Pittsburgh Gre~hound Terminal~ ~at I pm, Sunday, Oct. 29 ~
\._...............~--....,...·-...-..--·---·----4--...--.....-·---._..J 
~---------------------------------------­
-~ 

micflael &co. Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
open late tues.-thurs. 8pm 272-7222 North Y2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 
south 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood 291-1001 
master charge

~..--, _____________........_ __ ----------­
·'•' 


----------------------------------------------------------------~Tuesday,October10,1_9_7_B__________~tuh~e~o~b~s~eurv~e~r____~3 
In College of Cardinals 
Papal elections begi~ Sunday 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Roman Catholic cardinals will cast their first ballot for a new pope next Sunday, the Vatican announced yesterday. Th'e dean of the College of Cardinals, reflecting widespread sentiment, was quoted as predict­ing the election will be. brief and easy. 
The congregation of cardinals, running the church in the period between popes, decided that the 111 cardinal-electors will precede the secret conclave Saturday by jointly celebrating a Mass in St. Peter's Basilica at 10 a.m.--5 a.m. EDT--calling on the Holy Spirit to help them elect a pope. 
At 4:30 p.m.--11:30 a.m. EDT-­the princes of the church will form 
~unannounced lottery Iresults in angry fans 
by Frank I.aGrotta 
~ On Sunday evening, the Notre Dame Student Union sponsored a lottery for tickets to the John Denver show, scheduled for the ACC on Nov. 3. There was just one problem-a lot of students who wanted tickets for the concert knew nothing about the lottery. "That's because it was not announced," said Joe LaCoste, director of the Student Union ticket office. "We did not publicize the lottery because we were not equipped to handle a large crowd," LaCoste said. The problem, he explained, was that the Student Union uses a Texas Instruments-58 calqllator to provide random numbers for a large lottery. "The person who has the calcu­lator was out of town last week­end," LaCoste continued. "With­out that calculator there was no way we could have handled a large crowd. "It would have been impossible to get another calculator at such short notice," he added. 
''There was nothing about the lottery in the Observer, or any­where else that I saw," commented Patrick Jank. 
J ank, a freshman who resides in Carroll Hall, arrived at the ticket window on the second floor of LaFortune at 7 a.m. on Monday. He claimed that he, as well as other students, were led to believe that tickets would be sold on a first come-first serve basis. · "The advertisement in the Observer said that tickets would go on sale at 9 a.m. on Monday," said Renee Salvino, a senior who was also present at the ticket window. "I didn't know anything about a lottery.'' 
One student, who asked not to be identified mentioned that he called the Student Union ticket office on Friday to find out if there would be a procession and file into the Renaissance splendor of the Sistine Chapel, the door locking behind them. They begin balloting the following morning. 
The conclave procedure will largely be a re-run of the one in August that elected Albino Luciani, the humble son of a bricklayer from the Dolomite Alps of northeastern Italy. Pope John Paul I, !he 263rd pope and leader of the world's 700 million Catholics, died of a heart attack Sept. 28 after a reign of only 34 days. 
On Sunday morning, the cardi­nals will celebrate Mass in the three chapels in the conclave area. Two rounds of voting are scheduled later that morning, followed by two more in the afternoon. Election of 
a lottery. 
''There was no answer at the ticket office so I tried the Student Union main office. The person there told me that there were no plans to hold a lottery. I was told that I could assume there would not be a lottery." 
LaCoste said that in that case, the student should have contacted him, personally, for the informat­ion. 
''I asked the girl at the Student Union office if there was anyone I could call to make sure that there would be no lottery," the student said. "She said that she didn't know who I could call." 
What it came down to, said LaCoste, was inconveniencing a lot of people by not having a lottery, or upsetting a few people who did not get the information. 
"There were 125 people at the lottery," said LaCoste. "Most students assume that there will be a lottery before a concert." 
The turnout for the Denver lottery is the lowest for any concert this year, LaCoste revealed. the lottery for the Neil Young concert drew approximately 700 students and the Heach Boys concert at­tracted over 250 students despite the fact that it is scheduled during fall break. 
"We simply could not have handled a large group," LaCoste said. "If I had to do it over again, I'd han<lle it the same way." 

a pope requires a vote of two thirds plus one. 
The statement by Cardinal Carlo Confalonieri, in an interview with the ll.o~ newspaper D Tempo, . appeared to indicate that the cardinal-electors have developed a consensus of sorts on the kind of pope they are seeking. 
The cardinals have had ample time to get to know each otht:er since the death of Pope Paul VI on Aug. 
6. The only first-time voter this time will be Cardinal John Wright,. the only American member of the Curia, the church's central govern­ment. He missed the last papal election because of cataract sur­gery in the United States. 
Influential cardinals stressed over the weekend that consider­ation of age and health will be major factors in the choice of the next pope. Others like Confalonieri have said the next pope should have a knowledge of the world affairs and diplomacy as well as the fundamental pastoral quality of the late pontiff. 
The "pastoral" cardinals--ones with long service as bishops like Pope John Paul I--most frequently mentioned as possible papal candi­dates are Salvatore Pappalardo of Palermo, Sicily, Giuseppe Siri of Genoa and Corrado Ursi of Naples. 
Among the "curia-oriented", names most heard are Italian Cardinals-' Sergio Pignedoli, Sebastiana Baggio, Pericle Felice, Paolo Bertoli and Frenchman Jean Villot. 
Another possibility is Cardinal Giovanni Benelli of Florence, ex­perienced in both pastoral and Curia affairs. 
Confalonieri is 85 and is barred along with 15 other octogenarian cardinals from taking part in the conclave. None of the nine U.S. cardinals in the conclave is given any realistic chance of being elected. 
THE POLITICS OF CONSPIRACY 
Tuesday. at 3:30 pm Lafortune Little Theatre 
by Haruey Yazijian Assassination Information Bureau, Wash; D. C 
;Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre presents Preston Jones'
:r: 

~ Lu Ann Hampton 
w NO 

Laverty Oberlander 
October 6,7_,8,11,12,13,14
SMC 

O'Laughlln Auditorium, St. Mary's 8:00p.m.
THEATRE 

. For Uckets caD 284-4176 
.:;:::::::l:::;;:;;;;::::::~:~:=:~:~~:=:=:=:~:~:~=~~=~:::~::::::::::::::~::~:.;:::::i;::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:.:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:. 
.~~f\ll.JUNIOA·s·lnterested iliworking~· 
:j~j· on JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKENoi)ii 
l\\\organizational meeting-Wednesday, ~!!!: :~~~ Oct. 11 :~~~: 
tt;~:C,:~:~:~~~t~~;::;Rl"'''M;x,,.~,,~'''"'"'"'"''~
f~---------------~
t 
t 
t t t
t I 
t 
It 
t 
t 
~ 

· Howard Hall  t  
PRESENTS  t  
''Resume Writing and  t  

Interview Skills"! t 
a career. workshop conducted by t Mr. Paul Reynolds 1 of the Placement Bureau Staff t 
It 

Tues. Oct. 1 0 
7:00pm t t 
in Howard Hall t 
SMC history 
123 years ago today 
In 1855, Saint Mary's Academy, 
· established by the Sisters of the Holy Cross with the aid and direction of Fr. Edward Sarin, was transferred from the simple five room house in Bertrand, MI to its present site. It was during this same year that the state of Indiana chartered the school, giving the academy the power to grant degrees. 
118 years ago today 
It was in 1860 that Saint Mary's Academy advertised tuition, room, and wash for fifty dollars a year! Students were trained to be "lady like" and allowed to go to town on 
At Lee's Barbecue 
Joda~ 

Wednesday, their free day. These chaperoned trips would find the girls in their dart uniforms, capes, 
$1.00 Pitcher of Miller with your meal and bonnets taking in the sights of South Bend. · 

Tuesday, October 10; 1978
the observer 

th€ (jRaO:b€UR Of J)€RU 
This feature, funded by StudenttJ.i0Verii!,1Jll~ltt$:i community about some of the probleiUS .... ,,,.,,.,_ primarily those in the Third World. 
Student Government believes it is impolrtalnfltQ:i1ijl words of Gov. John J. Gillig;ln, head "By the year 2000, 90 percent ofthe J)OJ>Uhltkl'n the less developed countries." 
That figure is too high to. , ~=,:=:&iJI~~~~~~~:rJ-~

geography lesson. (Although such a It the past and present conditions of a COlmttv•. our future. 
Countries were chosen by the availablity · thanks all of them, as well as Tim Piesch, eo:-or<linjttOi~;A~dr.JJ:t; )IV:elber:i layout. 
tanzan1a 1n a nutshell 
by Crispin D.E. Haull 

Alan and Kerstin Magary in East Africa (1975) describe Tanzania as "a wide, long, expansive country touching on the Indian Ocean and on Africa's three largest lakes, crowned by the continent's tallest mountain (Kilimanjaro) and protecting two of the world's largest game sanctuaries." 
That is a bird's-eyeview of a country in the East coast of Africa, with an area of 364,943 sq. miles, bigger than Texas and almost 2.5 times as large as California (Magory 1975). Tanzania is a United Republic made up of Tanganyida with a population of over 14 million and Zanzibar with an estimated population of over 4,000,000 (1974 est.). The present capital city is Dar es Salaam -population of over 500,000. 
Tanganyika became independent on December 9, 1961 and adopted a republi­can form of government a year later. Zanzibar achieved independence on December 1963. Tanganyika and Zanzibar combined to form the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar on April 27, 1964. The name Tanzania was officially adopted on October 29. Tanganyika had formally been under the Germans (1884­1914) then the British until 1961. The islands of Zanzibar and Pemba had been under British protection since 1890. 
Tanzania is made up of more than 120 tribes each with a distinctive dialect. Swahili is the national language and English is the second language. 90% of the Tanzania population is composed of rural peasant farmers. The urban popula­tion is very cosmopolitan with racial groups such as Africans, Arabs, and Indians mixing freely. 
Tanzania is a one-party state governed under the principles of Ujamaa, with a 
stress on rural development -whose basic 
maxim is hard-work, dedication, and 
self-reliance with people organizing them­
selves into Ujamaa villages -kibbutz-like 
socialistic agricultural communes. 

Tanzania's foreign policy is based on 
nonalignment, and the country has been 
receiving foreign assistance from Britian, 
USA, Scandinavia, Germany, Eastern 
Europe and the People's Republic of 
China. 

On the African political front, Tanzania has been emphasizing the self-determina­tion of the African peoples and supports, materially and morally, the liberation struggles in the southern part of the continent. This commitment is well reflected in the Tanzania's only political party. CHAMA CHA MAPINDUZI (Revolutionary Party) which came into being after the merger of TANU and AFRO-SHIRAZI PARTY in April 1977. 
On the domestic scene Tanzania is ruled by a government which is elected every five years. At present President Julius K. Nyerere is also the chariman of Chama cha Mapimduzi; Ndngu Abound Jumbe the Vice-President also Vice-Chairman while Ndugu Edward Sokoine (a Masai) is the Prime Minister. The political party is structured in such a way that the business on the National, Regional, District, and Village level is reflective of the democratic discussion and the will of the majority. The villagers elect their leaders from the village level committees to national committees and the National Assembly once every five years. 
The 1975 Village Act, provides village councils (made up of peasants) with extensive powers for their day to day administration under their chairmen and village managers. It is Tanzania's hope that socialism can be achieved without distrubing the basics of democracy. 
by Prof. Ken Jameson 

The grandeur of Peru is best represented by the soaring heights of the Inca fastness at Machu Picchu. The skill demonstrated in its construction and the organization required for such an undertaking must evoke admiration. But the Inca Empire fell to the Spaniards of Pizarro almost 450 years ago. Where lies the grandeur of modern Peru? 
One place to look is in the pantheon of heroes of modern Peru. However, such a search provides a very mixed image. In prominent places in the group are an admiral who was killed and whose ship was captured during the war with Chile in 1879, a military cadet who was executed by invading forces, and an army officer who rode his horse off a cliff to escape pursuing soldiers. Add to this the aviation ace for whom the national airport is named. His goal was to fly over the Alps; but his flight ended in a crash on the Italian side and his death from the injuries he suffered. So "grandeur" must be a very flexible 
concept  to  be  found  residing  in  these  
persons.  
The  history  of  modern  Peru  is  not  

inconsistent with her heroes. During the nineteenth century, following her indepen­dence from Spain, a pattern of domestic dependence on foreign powers was estab­lished, and it has continued to today. Initially public works were undertaken, financed by bonds sold in Britian. Those soon proved unprofitable. In the 1860's the railroads were built, again with British loans, secured by the proceeds of sales of bird guano for fertilizer. When the loans could not be paid, partly as a result of the losing war with Chile in 1879, the bondholders took over these railroads. 
In the twentieth century, it was the U.S.'s turn. The major oil producing sites, the major mineral producing sites, the best mountain pasture land, much of the irrigated coastal land, much of the production and distribution of modern consumer goods--all of these came to be owned by U.S. firms. Richard Goodwin, a former advisor to President Kennedy, put it quite clearly: We the U.S. own everything except one solft drink bottling company. In addition the U.S. government came to have substantial influence on the general policies of successive Peruvian governments. This history is characterized by Latin Americans as "dependency," with Peru having relatively little control over her own historical development. 
It was another military man, General Juan Velasco Alvarado, who became the newest hero candidate when, in 1968, he led a military coup. The new military junta was intent upon transforming Peru into an independent country, with its own goals and with policies designed to attain them. The break with Peru's history seemed dramatic as the following examples can show., The disputed oil concession of Standard 
Oil was almost immediately expropriated. Not long after the coastal sugar estates were similarly commandeered by the government and turned over to workers' cooperatives. A major land reform was undertaken in an attempt to change one of the most unequal distributions of land in Latin America, e.g. 1.1% of Peruvian farms accounted for 82"!o of the total arable land. This program was designed to benefit some 300,000 rural families who did not have enough land to live decently. A number of major industries and banks were taken over by the state, again with a view to operating them in a manner consistent with the goals of Peru. 
The vision of Velasco was of an independent and self-assured country, built on the one element of continuity with the Inca past-the people of Peru whose dominant ethnic heritage is Incan. It was here that the grandeur of Peru lay, according to Velasco. 
But Velasco failed, perhaps ensuring his entry into the realm of Peruvian heroes. He was desposed in 1975 and his policies have been gradually and almost completely reversed. Instead of being independent, Peru became one of the first countries in which foreign private banks attempted to mandate domestic economic policy. 
''Peru at this point seems likely to become a relatively moderate version of the repressive dictatorships of ...South America." 
Why did Velasco fail? He had a military perchant for arms spending and monumen­tal projects, both of which put economic pressures on the country. He also, ultimately, was afraid of the Peruvian people and wanted only a very controlled mobilization. Many of the economic programs did not turn out well, because of faulty conceptualization or execution. He certainly did not enjoy the full support of the U.S. 
But whatever the reason, it is clear today that Peru is not creating any new types of heroes, nor a new version of her past grandeur. There are some alarming signs that quite the opposite may be the case. Attacks on opposition leaders have begun, detention of union leaders has been stepped up, and there is a very real threat of substantial internal repression to make the IMF program stick. 
Thus, Peru at this point seems likely to become a relatively moderate version of the repressive dictatorships of the southern core of South America and her grandeur remains 450 years old. 
State planninG IS €ff€CtJV€ 1n th€ PhllJppJn€s 
by Andrew P. Gotuaco 

The Republic of the Philippines cele­brates its 80th birthday this year. The country, home to over 40 million Filipinos, has persistently had its share of difficulties in a world now sharply divided between developed and developing nations. The post-war years saw some expansion of the Philippine economy, along with improve­ments in living and social conditions. 
However significant changes and improvements in the socio-economic situa­tion of the country have rapidly taken place in the last six years. A new sense of direction, resulting from a change in government operating policies, has been primarily responsible for the healthy growth rate of the Philippine economy. Despite the oil crises, inflationary-reces­sionary cycles, and depression of world market prices for' the nation's major exports, the economy's annual growth rate was kept above six percent with a forecast 1 of seven percent seen for next year. 
In the last several years, tourism has been one of the top dollar-earning indus­tries in the nation. The "New Society," promoted by President Ferdinand E. Marcos, encouraged the construction of hotels and the conversion of several erstwhile idle tracts of land into tourist resorts and lodges. The Department of Tourism has projected over one million visitors to the islands in 1979. In 1977, the country earned over $300 million from about 730,000 tourists, making the indus­try the third largest foreign exchange earner after sugar and coconut oil exports. To cope with the expected influx of tourists, the nation stepped into high gear and erected fifteen five-star hotels, and numerous four-star establishments around the Metro-Manila area. The government was, and still is, the biggest financier of the industry, investing about $350 million primarily through loans from national banks and agencies. 
Hand-in-hand with the ongoing devel­opment of tourist spots, the Department of Public Highways has taken great strides in its efforts to link the country's 71 provinces. The Philippines, at present, has 120,000 kilometers of roads, the most important of which is the Pan-Philippine highway, boasting more than 2,000 kilometers of concrete and asphalt roads. The road, partly financed by a Joan from Japan, passes through 21 provinces and 11 cities, and plays a major factor in national development by increasing the mobility of people and the transport of commodies.. 
The department has plans to go on constr~cting an additional 32,000 kilomet­ers of roads in the next five years. 
Long dependent on relatively few mar­kets for its exports, the country is staging a campaign to establish more trade opportunites. In 1977, the United States and Japan accounted for 58 percent of total Phi1ippine exports; however, this was a considerable reduction from the 75 percent share these two countries had in 1972. The total number of countries to which the Philippines export has increased from 113 countries in 1972 to 151 nations in 1977. Most of the new markets are from the Middle East, Latin America, and some socialist countries. 
One of the causes of concern in the trade area is the heavy reliance on primary products (raw materials) for export goods. Major exports of this kind are sugar, crude coconut oil, copper concentrates, copra, logs, pineapple, plywood, unmanufactured abacca and tobacco. Nevertheless, the country has experienced a gradual trans­formation from a primarily agriculture­based economy to a developing industrial nation. As a result of this change, the share of non-traditional (refined and processed) exports has increased from a paltry two percent of total exports in 1968, to 43 percent in 1977. Some of these non-traditional exports include gold from 
copper ores, nickel, cement, refined coco­nut oil, and clothing. On the import side, machinery and petroleum, with its related products, account for most of the resources brought in. The export industry has recently been bolstered by several trading companies, an export processing zone, and the export promotion efforts of the Philip­pine Export Council, all of which helped a recorded export growth of 13 percent annually from 1973-77, compared to only five percent from 1968-1972. 
The new Five-Year Philippine Develop­ment Plan was outlined for 1978-1982. Top priority will be given to increasing food supply and increasing the supply and distribution of basic needs, along with an attempt to balance income inequality, unemployment and underemployment, high population growth, regional growth disparities, and environmental problems arising from industrialization. ­
'r\' .'tile the nation's economy, as a whole, is t· 'periencing a general upswing, it is very often sensitive to worldwide phenomena. The development plans essentially place the government in sole control of the guiding reins to prosperity. However, private investment is strongly encouraged. The combination of aggressive private initiative with controlled state planning 

emerging as effective in the 
Tuesday, Ckiober10, 1978 the observer 
5 


south at=RJca: past anb PResent 
by Jeff Thinnes 

There are approximately 26 million inhabitants of the Republic of South Africa today. The lives of 18 million Africans, 2.5 million coloureds, and 750,000 people of Indian origin are controlled by 4 million whites. Traditional African and Christian are the two major religions, and English and Afrikaans (Dutch-African mixture) have been institued as official languages. Although Zulu, Xhosa, Tswana and others are still spoken among the native Africans. 
Until well into the nineteenth century most Africans lived primarily by farming and herding. Because of so!=ial erosion caused by climate patterns of heavy rains and long dry seasons, Africans used to employ a method of shifting agriculture-­cultivating one area for four or five years and then moving to another area. Some · major agriculture products included corn, wool, wheat, sugar cane, tobacco, citrus fruits, and dairy products. 
In 1806 while the Napoleonic war was taking place the British arrived at Cape Town, fearing a French takeover. The British granted equal rights to Blacks. Upset by British control, nearly one-third of the Dutch Afrikaners made their "Great 
Trek" to the interior of South Africa. 
There they set up two Boer (Afrikaner farmers) republics, the Transvaal and the 
Orange Free State. Once .again they discriminated against Blacks. 
A series of wars with Africans followed until1938, when African Zulu insurrections were put down by the Battle of Blood River. About two years after this battle the Boers established Natal, another republic along the east coast. Afraid that the Boers would establish alliances with this strategic coastal area, the British took over Natal. Now the British had the colonies of Cape and Natal, while the Afrikaners had the Transvaal and Orange Free· State. 
Around the 1880's there was a scramble for control of South Africa. The strategic location in the southern Atlantic and the recent discovery of diamonds and gold were both reasons for the scramble. 
From 1899 to 1902 the Boer was fought between the Afrikaners and the British, and both sides suffered tremen­dous casualities. The British finally brought the Boers to their knees. The Treaty of Vereeningin was signed, and the Boer republics were incorporated into the British Empire, only after Blacks were denied the right to vote. 

In 1910 the two former Boer republics joined with the British colonies to form the Union of South Africa. In 1934 the Union achieved status as a sovereign state within the British Empire. A strong resurgence of Afrikaner nationalism in the 40's and SO's led to a referendum in the white commun­ity. This established South Africa as a republic in 1961. 
The discovery of diamonds in 1867 and gold in 1886 initiated South Africa's industrial age. Sparsely inhabited grass­lands were turned into cities to compensate for the booming mineral industries, owned exclusively by Whites. 
Foreign investment through expanding corporations increased tremendously. (The U.S. is second to the United Kingdom in investment expenditures in South Africa.) While South Africa was experienc­ing remarkable growth in the economy, native Africans were being uprooted, exploited and driven into sub-human levels of poverty. 
Today four million Whites govern eighteen million Blacks under a system of apartheid, a system of racism through segregation and descrimination. Whites have separate and more advanced health services, educational facilities, housing, transportation, etc. In all instances services to Whites are superior to those for Blacks. 
Hundreds of thousands of Blacks have been forced to move to the overcrowded, diseased Bantustans (also referred to as homelands or reserves). These areas make up only 13 percent of the total land in South Africa. About one-third of the African population lives in the Bantustans, while men have to migrate to white cities and 
farms  in order to  earn  money  for  their  
families.  
Trade  unions  for  Africans  are  not  

recognized; therefore Blacks are compelled to acca.pt outrageously low wages. In 1977 a black miner would earn $23 per week, a white miner would earn ten times that amount. A black farm worker would earn $5 per day for working a twelve hour day. Even though he does this seven days a week, fifty-two weeks per year, members 
comment 

alost homelanO 
by Samir Sayegh 

PART 1: EYE TO EYE, RACISM TO RACISM 
During a stay in West Germany a few months ago, I was struck by the number of young people wearing the Star of David around their necks. When I asked them if they were of the Jewish faith they responded that they were not, but that they felt a bond, a profound love for Jews the world over. 
German friends, that is really a beautiful and generous gesture on your part, but do you not think that it would have been much more beautiful if you had all worn stars while Nazism soared? Beyond a doubt you would have stopped it cold. 
Today the entire West is filled with remorse. But must one await the end of the massacre before beginning to regret it? And wanting to repent for a massacre, do you feel obligated to tolerate yet another one? Must the abolition of one racism implicate the creation of a new one? No responsible person could imagine it. 
And yet, let us have the intellectual courage to look at things squarely in the face. Everything seems to indicated that "Judenrein" is being replaced by the ''Arabrein.'' No one speaks anymore of an Arian race that must be carefully purged of its Jewish components. 
Nevertheless, a good many nations of the world recognize and support the "Jewish State" which does everything in its power to encourage the immigration of all people who are of the Jewish faith. At the same time it wildly opposes even a single Palestinian setting his foot on this land that is due him and from which he was driven. 
PART D: FOUNDATIONS OF THE JEWISH STATE 
The Zionist Jews claim that their belonging to the Jewish faith allows them of his family still die from starvation. Fifty percent of black children die before they are five years old. The life expectancy for an African male is 51. A white male's is 64. 
While working in -"White areas," all Blacks over sixteen years old must carry passes showing in which areas they are allowed to work. 1f they do not have their pass, they are fined, jailed, or forced to work on white farms. 
After the late 1950's, African resistance to these impoverished, detestful conditions was passive. Black organizations such as the Congress Youth League, the African National Congress and the Native Repre­sentative Council fostered "black con­sciousness" but had little effect on the :vv_hite regime. Demands from these groups were often met with severe discriminating legislation. Demonstrations and strikes have been met with brutal police action. 
Education for white children is provided freely for all of them. Half of the African children must leave after four years 
because of limited places, or because they can not afford it. The government spends about fifteen times more educating each white child than it does on a black child. 
In June of 1976 police opened fire on unarmed schoolchildren who were peacefully demonstrating in Soweto near Johannesburg. Hundreds died. Since then demonstrations have been more frequent and more militant. The Africans see no options within the apartheid structure. other than taking up arms. 
Former African National Congress President Chief Albert Luthuli expressed the African feeling of despair after years of non-productive peace protests when he said: "Who will deny that thirty years of my life have been spent knocking in vain patiently. moderately, and nodestly at a closed barred door? What has been the fruit of moderation? The past thirty years have seen the greatest number of laws restrict­ing our own rights and progress, until today we have reached a stage where we have almost not rights at all." 
It is pronounced "apart-hate," and the struggle goes on. 
to appropriate other people's land in order to have their own Jewish State. 
But what would a New Yorker think if I seized his home and drove him out of his country, just because I am a Christian?! ! (Especially since the U.S. is a Christian State.) 
The Zionist Jews claim that Palestine is due to them, because their ancestors lived there. However, neither their fathers or their grandfathers lived there. One would have to go back 80 generations and use some very sophisticated gymnastique before finding a trace of today's Zionists. 1f one was to go back still farther, the Philistines, ancestors of the Palestinians. would be discovered. 
On the other hand if the Zionists hav~ such a good memory about events of 200· l years ago, how can they ask the Palestir• ians to forget that just 30 years ago the . land was stolen and their elementar human rights violated? 
_ 

PART m: NEG011ATIONS•••BUT Wlr REFUSE TO NEGOTIATE? 
The official point of view of the Jewh State is: "This land is mine. Don't tou it!, but let's see if we can find a practic agreement so you don't bother us t much?" This is implausible. 
But one could negotiate from the point view that men are equal, of differe> beliefs, but equal just the same. One cou continue: We have lived on this land, ,. love it and we want to live on it in peac Then the very basis of the negotiatk implies its outcome. It would be a secul and democratic state where Jews, Chn tians and Moslems would li:ve in harmc and would have the same rights and dutic. Does this sound like an extreme? 
I fear that my words will be drowned an ocean of propaganda contrary to justice and goodwill. At least my child1 won't reproach me for having worn my S of David a little too late. 
--~~ -~------~----­

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
8 the Observer Tuesday, October 10, 1978--------------------------------­
collegiate crossword 
45 Fight 14 Loose1 y woven
ACROSS 

46-fixe cotton 1 Sewing machine 47 Emulated Andretti 15 City in upstate part 49 Sea bird New York 
6 Wheat variety 50 -synephrine 16 Ballerina's assets 11 Small bed 51 Threatened 21 Toothed 13 Ornamental shrub 53 Triangle side 23 Protective wall 14 Author of "The 54 "A-" (Dickens 25 Prophets 
Necklace" (2 wds.) novel) 27 Messages17 Record player part 57 Edict city 29 Electric ­18-roll 58 Powder bag 31 Part of MPH 19-Schwarz, 59 Hinder 33 Pours 
famous toy store 60 Evil glances 35-seek 20 Exploits 36 Spaces between veins 22 Greek site 37 Tropical bird
DOWN

23 Boy servant 39 Artist's workshop24 Regions 1 Encourages {2.wds.) 40 Karl Malden TV 26 Bio--2 Remuneration series, for short 27 Income statement 3-hat 41 Iceman's need 
item 4 Cordoba cheers 42 Force 28 Menu item 5 Madagascar monkey 44 Texas river 30 Ambitious one 6 Bridge sections 47 Allude 32 Donna or Rex 7 City on the 48 Car-window item 34 Zeus's wife Arno 51 Speck of dust 35 Netherlands city 8 Stammering sounds 52 Sky Masterson's 38 Meal 9 Foliage game42 Dust and mud 10 Scarlet -55 Suffix for depend43 Baseball hall-of­12 Anklebone 56 Most common written 
farner, -Anson 13 Like Charo word 
In civilian life, a college graduate can often start as 
a trainee. In the Navy, she starts as an officer. Women Naval Officers serve in Communications, Engi­
neering, Computer Thchnology, and dozens of other fields. They have the same responsibilities as their male counter­parts, earn the same money, and enjoy the same benefits. If that sounds like your kind of opportunity, speak to: 
Your Navy Offlcar Representatives are on Saint Mary's campus today. They can be located in LeMans Hall. 

NAVY OFFICER. IT'S NOT lUST A lOll,. IT'S AN ADVDITURE. 
Antostal 

Now accepting applications for e_xec. staff positions 
vice-chairman day chairman asst. day chairman special events coordinator secretary 

Applications at ND Student Gov't office and SMC Student Activities 
Enjoy an Evening on the ''AFRICAN QUEEN'' at the HOMECOMING SEMI-FORMAL 
Saturday October 14th 9 to 1 ACC Fieldhouse $6.00/coup/e 
Tickets on sale starting October 5th in the Dining Halls 
•• c i .• ........ .;Y... ~.--• ._ •• -•••-,-............ ,. .........., •• " •.-, 
-·· .~. !': • : 
;"' ., 
~-·. . ' . 

·.. 
·'r . 
...CLC 

[continued from page 1] ment that he had no legislative authority. According to McKenna, the status of the keg directive is "up in the air." "It was passed by the CLC last year, but has not gone to thq Board of Trustees." The accountability of the Vice President for Student Affairs was handled next. The proposal provided for the addition of a section to the CLC by-laws requir­ing the Vice President for Studnet Affairs to respond to a proposal within two weeks of receiving it. Furthermore, if he responds nega­tively, he must give his reasons to the Council. The order of appeal was also was restated in the by-laws addition. H the Vice President for Student Affairs vetoes a proposal, the CLC has recourse to the Provost, then to the President of the University. McKenna also noted that the CLC has the vehicle to appeal ultimately to the Board of Trustees. The proposal to restate the appeal procedure through the existing chain of command and to insure the accountability of the Vice President for Student Affairs was carried by a unanimous vote. The final proposal discussed dealtwith the redefinition of parietals from a University offense to a hall offense. Under this proposal, the rector would have the option to refer a parietals violation to the hall judicial board. Present­ly, the rectors may use discretion in handling parietals violations, either dealing with the situation them­selves, or referring it to the Dean of Students for disciplinary action. The proposal was passed with two dissenting votes. O~e of thes was Roemer, who saw the proposal as "a zap on the parietals regula­tion." Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice president for Student Affairs, opposed the proposal on the grounds that he wanted to get input from more hall rectors on the subject, and that he didn't believe that there was a significant difference between the present procedure and the proposed proce­dure. Jayne Rizzo, judicial commis­sioner, stressed the need to disas­sociate the parietals regulation from the sexuality regulation, reiterating the statement by Roemer that parietals serve to insure privacy and quiet in the halls. Rizzo added that since the effect of the regulation is directed toward the individual dorm, the alleged violator of parietals should have recourse to a trial by a jury of his hall peers. The essential difference is that the students develop a sense of responsibility and have recourse to a J-board trial. Rizzo called the difference one of symbolic importance which gives the violator and his peers the opportunity for emotional growth and responsiblity for his or her actions. The proposal will be presented to the Board of Trustees on Thursday. Happroved, rectors will have three options in dealing with parietals violations; they may refer the case to the Dean of Students, to the hall J-Board, ro handle the case them­selves. Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of [continued on page 7] 
Answers 


f.'
···.·· 
'~ 

...... 
----------------------------------------------------------------r_u_e_sd_a_y_,_o_ct_ob_e_r_1o_,_1_97_B__________~th~e~o~b~s~e~rv~e~r____~7 

, 
Bike thieves apprehended 
He noted that the problems of overcrowding and "humane living" (meaning adequate facilities and social space) should be treated as separate issues, adding that "over­crowding should be dealt with, and dealt with quickly." 
The CLC turned the issue back to Conyers' committee for further research and the development of possible solutions to the problem of overcrowding. 
lnt'l studies to host lectures 
The Institute for International 
Studies will inaugurate a new distinguished lecture senes this fall with three lectures by Dr. John C. Campbell on "The Great Powers and the Middle East." 
Dr. Campbell is Director of Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1940 and served from 1942 to 1955 in the State Depart­ment as a region specialist and member of the Policy Planning Staff. Since 1955 he has been affiliated with the Council on Foreign Relations where he has directed research and writing on 
American  foreign  policy,  East  
European  politics,  and Middle  
Eastern questions.  

The author of numerous books and articles, including Defense of the Middle East (Harper, 1960), The Middle East in the Muted Cold War (University of Denver, 1965), and The West and the Middle East (Council on Foreign Relations, 1972), Dr. Campbell is recognized as one of the world's leading authorities in his field. 
The lectures will be held at 4 
p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium today, tomorrow and Thursday. 
Four Days 'til Homecoming 
PHONE~ 

_2_34_-6_76_7...A.,r . . . :: r . 
_ . III:I'ISlOIIS 
A new dimension in hair designsfor the aware man and woman 
Designers Haircut SP-ecial 
. -----i=or-~()nnE;n______l 
Redken shampoo ~~ conditioner with haircut Reg. $9.75
I------~~~--!7~~~------J 
'~ED KEN 

~~am~.a~~am~~~ax~~--~~~----~----~~~-~~~~====~~ 
foot through the woods behind the ACC. 
Both bicycles were recovered at the scene, according to Wall, who added that in subsequent searches of the area of the initial theft, a pair of bolt cutters were found. 
When asked if there was any type of organized ring operating in the area, Wall said that there was no evidence of any such activity on campus at this time. 
"We did have four or five bikes stolen in the past week, however. It seems to be a trend--hopefully it was these youths who were behind it," Wall said. 
Dave Gnoth of the South Bend Police Department's bicycle theft division echoed Wall's assessment of the situation, saying, "We have no evidence of any bike ring operating in South Bend. In fact, the number of stolen bicycles is actually down from what it was during the summer." 
Murphy lectures 

Edward J. Murphy, White Pro­fessor of Law at Notre Dame, will give the second lecture in the Christian Lawyers Forum at 3:45 p_m. tomorrow in Room 105 of the Law Building. The topic is "Genesis 3:5 -Jurisprudence as a Choice of Gods." 
The speaker's reference is to Satan's statement in the story of Adam and Eve, "Then the serpent said to the woman, 'No! You will not die! God knows in fact th~t on the day you eat it your eyes will be opened and you will be like gods, knowing good and evil."' 

A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1957, Murphy served as acting dean of the Law School in 1971 and was named to the school's first endowed chair in 1976. He is the author of a widely used casebook in the law of contracts and of the recently published religious textbook, Life to the Full. 
Future speakers in the Christian Lawyers Forum, organized this year to explore the interplay of law and religion, will be Professors Edward M. Gaffney and Joseph A. Bauer of the law faculty; Rev. Lynn Buzzard, a first-year law student and member of the faculty at the Baptist Theological Seminary, and Prof. Charles Primus of the Notre Dame theological faculty. 

Homecoming clue 
The final clue of the "Hidden 
Panther Contest"is as follows: 
5) 413 (22/7)r3 
The previous four clues are listed 
in yesterday's Observer. Anyone 
who thinks they know where the 
panther is should drop off their 
guess at the Student Union office. 
The answer and the winner will be 
announced tomorrow. 
r--------~oir~E;n________ 
i RK shampoo and tonditioning ~ hairrutI and air styling J ! Reg. $12.75 
L[---~~~~-t!~~~r~------­
ocateo cmson at 1ronwood on East side of Capri Resturant building 
Hours lues GWed 8:30 · 5:30 Thur G Fri 8:30 · 8:30 __ ~ ·-~ ____ ~~t-.tf!q..:_4:QO 
l ' 

~8L---~tuh~a~o~~~~~~-------------T~ue~~~Y~·-Oct~o_be~r_10~,_1_97~8 -----------------------------------------------------------------­
Raise fall record to 9-3. 
ND pitching key to weekend swef!p 

by Mike Henry Sports Writer 
The South Bend winter took a respite from its relentlessapproacli Sunday, as a bright sun illuminated a cloud-specked sky and tem­peratures managed to stay above fifty degress. The Notre Dame baseball team and their fans en­joyed the brisk day as well as the results of the doubleheader with Tri-State, which the Irish swept, 9-0 and 8-0, to run their fall mark to 9-3. On Saturday, Tom Kelly's squad traveled to Valparaiso and
\ trounced them, 12-4, in conditions more suitable for hunting bighorn sheep in the Rockies. Despite the fact that Notre Dame compiled 29 runs in the weekend's three contests, pitching was the key to their success as Irish hurlers continue to shackle opponents. Bob Bartlett pitched a masterful three-hitter against Valpo, setting down 10 batters on third strikes, with all the Valpo runs being unearned. The righthander from Shaker Heights, Ohio, received plenty of batting support as Notre Dame jumped out to an early 2-0 lead. in the third on an RBI-triple by Mark Simmendinger and a run-scoring single by Jim Montagano. . The Irish stretched the lead to 7-0 in the 
The Notre Dame Baseball team raised their season record to 9-3 fifth, with keystone sacker Tommy with three wins over the weekend. Caruso's bases-loaded triple high-
SMC netters raise record to 8-1 
by Anne Davey Sports Writer 

Quite a bit of tennis was played this past weekend by the Saint Mary's Belles. Three vi, ;.,ries were accomplished. boosting their record to 8-1 . 
Saint Mary's first travelled on Saturday to St. Joseph Cnllege to compete in a triangular meet with the host school and Earlham Col­lege. 
The match with St. Joe!s ended with SMC on top, 7-2. The Belles completely dominated the singles play without a defeat. It was the number one player, Cindy Schus­ter, over Barb Salkeld, 8-3. Ann Daniels. number two, soundly de­feated Kathy Kesteff, 8-1. SMC's number three player, Mo O'Brien, won in a close match against Lucy Sheperd, 8-6. Karen Smith, num­ber four singles, beat Jan Stuhben­berg, 8-3. Number five player, Terri Bracken, won over Sue Fitz­gerald, 8-2, and number six sin­gles, Carmel Maenza, downed Jennifer Voneis, 8-1. 
In doubles, St. Joe's took two out of the three matches, winning with their number one and three teams. 
O'Brien and Smith fought a hard match, but were beaten by Sulkeld and Stuhvenberg. 8-7, in the first match-up. SMC's number three team of Evans and Hanavan were defeated by Kinej and Lamb, 8-2. St. Mary's number two team of Bracken and Riehl came up with an astounding 8-0 victory. closing the match at 7-2. 
On the same day. SMC faced Earlham College and soundly de­feated them, 9-0. Using the same singles line-up, it was Schuster over Saurer, 8-3; Daniels over Young, 8-1; O'Brien over Chiemin­go, 8-2; Smith over Felt, 8-1; Bracken over Siebert, 8-0; and Maenza defeating Thorton, 8-1; to wrap up the one-sided scores. 
Once again Saint Mary's dom­inated, this time in doubles, as Schuster and Daniels blanked Saur­er and Young, 8-0; O'Brien and Smith soundly defeated Chiemingo and Siebert, 8-1; and Bracken and Riehl rounded up the action with a victory over Felt and Thorton, 8-2. 
This full day of activity did not prove to be too much for the Belles, however. They proceeded to beat Indiana/Purdue University at Ft. 

Wayne back on Saint Mary's hame _courts on Sunday. This final score 
was once again a 9-0 shutout. 
The day's action began with a forfeit to SMC ilr the number one singles. Daniels, nu01ber two, defeated Kiser in straight sets. 6-0,6-3. O'Brien. the number three player, won over Berger. 7-5.6-0. The number four singles was also a forfeit to Saint Mary's. Both SMC's number four and five play­ers, Bracken and Maenza beat their opponents Harris and Smith, _re­spectively, with identical scores of 6-1. 6-0. . 
With a slight change in the line-up, Saint Mary's number one team of O'Brien and Smith defeat­ed Kiser and Berger, 6-3, 6-2, and Hanavan and Pagnucci blanked Harris and Smith, 6-0, 6-0. in the number two doubles. The number three doubles team also forfeited to SMC, closing the match at 9-d. 
Winning all but two out of 27' matches this past weekend, the Saint Mary's tennis team is opti­mistic about this coming weekend, · where they will be travelling to Indianapolis to compete in 'the Indiana State Tournament. 
Belles 2nd in volleyball tourney 
by Beth Huffman Sports Writer 
A good turnout of fans saw Saint 
Mary's finish second in the Saint 
Mary's Volleyball Invitational held 
Saturday in Angela Athletic Facil­
ity. Lake Michigan Junior College 
took top honors among the field of 
six teams. 
In the finals of the invitational, the Belles nabbed the first game of the match. 15-11. Game number two was a hard-fought battle with Lake Michigan coming out on top, 16-14. 
Lake Michigan pulled out the match by topping SMC, 15-2, in the third and decisive game. 
Coach Wilma Aitcheson comp­lemented freshman Terry Walters of South Bend on her excellent blocking during the invitational. Aitcheson also commented on the SMC team as a whole, saying the entire invitational was filled with good team play and effort. 
The tournament wins p· h the Belles record to 9-2 for the season. SMC is hosting the Saint Mary's Volleyball Tournament today at Angela Athletic Facility beginning at 7 p.m. Participating teams includ; Butler, Ft. -Wayne Bible, (2) Saint Mary's Collegt:, 4-1; (3) Saint Mary's, and Tri State. -St. Francis College, 3-2; (4) Mane­
Final team standings for the hester College, 2-3; (5) Notre Invitational were as follows: (1) Dame, 1-4; and (6) Southwestern Lake Michigan Junior College, 5-0; Michigan College, 0-5. 

lighting the fratite. _Bartlett was given all the insurance he needed in the top half of the ninth, with runs being driven across by Montagano, Dan Voellinger, center fielder Greg Rod ems, Rick Pullano, and Mike Jamieson. 
Sunday's twin-bill was viewed by a crowd dressed for a football game, and in fact, many had 
transistor radios tuned to the Green Bay-Chicago clash. The Irish performance quickly turned their minds to baseball, however, as they tallied early and often routing the undermanned Tri-Staters in both contests. The opener belonged to right Mark Ladd, who stifled the competition on just four hits while throwing just 56 pitches, not issuing a free pass al!.d striking out five. "Everything worked well today, especially my curve," Ladd commented."I was able to keep the ball where I wanted to." 
Tri-State's starter, Rick Kunaaing, was not as fortunate, being pelted for 13 hits and victimized by six errors, three by his own hand. Just about every­one got into the act for Notre Dame, with Simmendinger and first baseman Henry Valenzuela contributing three hits apiece and Valenzuela and Montagano each knocking across a couple of runs. The Irish also took liberties on the basepaths, pilfering four sacks before t~e end of the, thrrd ~nn!ng. 
The mghtcap wasn t a nail-btter, either, as Notre Dame stru_ck for four in the first and two m the second. Th~ first _four b~tters, Pullano, J amteson, Su~mendmg~r, and Montagano, all smgled, wtth the Irish catcher stealing home on a double steal with two outs in the inning. It appeared the Irish were 
going to blow Tri-State back home 
in the second inning, but with two 
in and two on, Valenzuela 
grounded sharply into an inning-
ending double play. 
Kelly used three hurlers in the second game, starting with Tim Handrich, coming in with Mite Kenahan for two innings, and letting freshman Brian Smith mop up the last two innings. Kenahan finished his stint with a flourish, striking out five batters in the fourth and fifth. 
"My slider was really breaking and they went fishing for it," he explained. "I could have finished the game, but coach wants to give the freshmen a chance to show themselves." And, Smith showed Kelly that he plans on being a big addition to the squad, retiring six Tri-State batters with a bewildering array of smoke and off-speed stuff. 

This Sunday, the Irish travel to Purdue for a scrimmage as they conclude the fall ~late. 
,.. 

AP top twenty 
1. Oklahoma (52)  5-0-0  11. Louisiana State 4-0-0  
2. Southern Cal (5) 4-0-0  12.Texas  3-1-0  
3. Arkansas (3)  4-0-0  13. Colorado  5-0-0  
tie Penn State  6-0-0  14. UCLA  4-1-0  
5. Michigan  4-0-0  15. Florida State  4-1-0  
6. Texas A&M  4-0-0  16. Ohio State  2-1-l  
7. Alabama  4-1-0  17. Houston  3.-l-0  
8. Nebraska  4-1-0  18. Stanford  3-2-0  
9. Pittsburgh  4-0.-0  19. Missouri  3-2-0  
10. Maryland  5-0-0  20. Iowa State­ 4-l-0  

ND women take· two in field hockey Sat. 
by Kathy Campanella Sports Writer 
During the past weekend, the Notre Dame women's field hockey team journeyed to Milwaukee, Wisconsin to play the teams from the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee and the University of Wisconsin at Green Bay. Both games were played on Saturday, 
with  the  Irish  making  a  clean  
sweep.  
In the first game, Notre  Dame  

defeated U.W. -Milwaukee by an overwhelming score of 5-0. During the first period, the Notre Dame defense contained their opponent, giving up a meager one shot on goal. The Irish offense, however, seemed to have difficulty in connecting on key plays. The lone score of the first half came with 
18:02 gone by, when thruster Carrie Rooney found an opening and scored unassisted off a short corner play. 
In the second period, the Notre Dame offense reorganized and played like clockwork. Four and one-half minutes into the period, Rooney scored her second goal. Assisting her was Pat Crowell. 
Led by Rooney, the Irish continued their strong offensive playing, as with 20:42 gone by, she again scored. The goal came off a pass from wing Mary Ann Dooley during a long corner play. 
Slightly over a minute and one-half later, Dooley fired in a shot for the team's fourth g(.ai. Wing Crowell again had the assist. 
The final score came at 24:56, as Rooney recorded her fourth goal of the game, tying a team record. It was scored off a short corner play on a pass from Susie McGlinn, who chalked up the assist. 
The: second game proved to be a greater test for the Irish as they downed U. W. -Green Bay by a score of 2-0. Both offense and defenst :-'layed very well against . the determined Green Bay team. With just !':15 gone by in the first half, C'~rrie Rooney continued her outstar. •g performance for the day by oring the first goal. The shot v !>et-up by a cross pass from .nna Carini who was creditt. with tl\e assist. The remainder of.the period was score­less, as both teams found them­selves stalemated in front of the cage. 
In the second period, this defen­sive struggle continued while both 

..
offensive units attempted to organize an effective drive. At 
25:19 into the period, Notre Dame broke through the Green Bay defense and scored its second goal. 
Once again, Roont.y made the score, assisted by Dooley. During the half, the Irish had several other close opportunities, but were unable to score~ Similarly, Green Bay put together a strong attack near the end of the game, but the Notre Dame defense remained tough and hung on for the shut-out. 
These two wins raised Notre Dame's record to 4-1 for the season. The Irish will play their next two games on Friday October 13 at Ypsilanti, Michigan against Eastern Michigan University and Northern Michigan University. 
Cross country today 
The Interhall Cross Country meet will be held today on the Burke Memorial Golf Course, beginning at 4:30 p.m. Contes­tants for the two and a half mile race should report to the starter on Fairway number two by 4: 15 p.m. 





