Mardi Gras to open as scheduled tonight 
Mardi Gras workers have been going full-time to insure that the annual festival gets off on time tonight at 6 p.m. [Photo by Beth Corbin] 
According to Dan Haugh, Mardi Gras committee chaimlan, mardi Gras will begin tonight at 6 p.m. in Stepan Center and continue until 2 a.m. The country and bluegrass group "Grass, Food, and Lodging" will provide musical entertainment. 
Festivities will continue from 2 
p.m. until2 a.m. tomorrow, featur­ing the bluegrass group "Sugar­foot.'' Sunday will be a special family day with activites scheduled from noon until midnight. The barbershop quartet "Ice Cream Social" will be featured during the afternoon. 
In addition to the other activities, special carnival games will be located at the Mardi Gras Com­mittee booth. Carnival-goers may play ring toss, nerf basketball, the Wiffle ball toss game, 7-11, and over and under, a ping pong ball game of chance. 
Despite some minor delays be­cause of the weather, the festival will open as scheduled. Mardi Gra~ will. run through next week, closi~g with the raffle drawing and special award ceremonies next Saturday night. 



server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 75 Friday, February 3, 1978 
Lobund rats & mice 
Animal deaths ignite controversy 
by Kevin M. Walsh 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Controversy exists as to whether the lives of 70 germ free animals in Notre Dame's Lobund Lab could have been saved during last Sun­day's blackout. 
According to Bernard Teah, as­sistant faculty fellow of the Lobund Lab, these deaths, which occured close to midnight, may have been prevented had he been notified of the power failure in the lab. Thirty of the lab's 60 Lou M rats and 40 out of 63 C3H mice suffocated when a generator that pumps air into the germ free environment stopped functioning. 
Teah accused security officers of not seeing warning lights that light up on the lab's exterior when a power failure occurs. He also noted that the power plant officials were negligent, for they did not notify security of the blackout. In such a case, Teah noted, security is then supposed to contact him. 
"The deaths of these animals caused a slowdown of four to six weeks," claimed Teah. "We worked like hell to keep the lab going smoothly," he said. "We even came in during the bad weather to check on things. Then to have this happen is very upset­ting." 
Teah admitted that other animals in the lab survived, for they were confined in less crowded cages. 
Arthur Pears, director of Secur­ity, initially responded to Teah's accusations by stating, "Douglas Road, from which the warning lights on the back of the Lobund Lab can be seen, had not been cleared of snow then, so none of security's regular checks on the lab were made that Sunday." 
According to Pears, ''If the checks had been made, then we would have seen the lights on.'' 
A subsequent check by this reporter with Edwin Lyon, director of Maintenance, confirmed the fact that Douglas Road was impassible. "However,"he stated, "a service drive into the lab area was plowed and could have been used by security as far as I am concerned.'' 
Confronted with this informa­tion, Pears again stated that his officers apparently did not check the building. "The lab is usually 

Albee, Seeger to highlight SLF '78 
checked three or four times nightly when security drives by there on the way to University Village. •; When asked why security officers did not use the cleared access road, Pears said, "I just found out about this incident yesterday and haven't seen the midnight supervisor yet to discuss it with him.'' 
Pears, however, accused power plant officials of not notifying the security office of the power failure, thus preventing notification of Teah. 
When informed of Pears' state­ment, Bro. Borromeo Malley, di­rector of the power plant, claimed, "I didn't know that power plant officials are supposed to call secur­ity or anybody else in such a situation." He went on to exclaim, "Our hands were full and we didn't have time to call everybody. Security knew that they didn't have any power, so why didn't they call Teah?" 
Malley stated that he couldn't understand why the lab did not invest in a standby generator, as he had suggested in the past, which could be used in case of such a blackout to restore power. "If they have so many millions of dollars invested in that lab," he argued, "why don't they buy a standby generator to operate their air compressors in such emergencies? They only cost a few thousand dollars." 
Malley cited that such buildings as Grace Hall and the ACC have such backup equipment. 
Teah responded to Malley's statements by saying, "We have been talking with Brother about this system, but right not we don't have enough money for an extra generator." Teah, though, also claimed that, "I have been told by power plant engineers that no extra generator is needed, since power Joss is such an infrequent occur­ance." 

Also, Teah said that a mainten­ance man in the lab told him that the power plant is supposed to call security in a case such as this. 
The Lobund Lab, located in the Reyniers Germ Free Life Building on Douglas Road, is in its fiftieth year of operation and was the first of its kind in the country. Lobund contains animals of all types, and all germ free animals in the coutry can be traced back genetically to Notre Dame's lab. Lobund's total animal population is estimated to be between 400-500. 
Experiments of most professors working in Lobund were not direct­ly effected by the blackout, but Teah and Julian Pleasants, assoc­iate professor of microbiology, did lose some mice and rats due to the power failure. 
The Observer is happy to announce the return of Art Buchwald and Oliphant to its editorial page. The column and cartoons were stopped by the los Angeles Times Syndicate, pending resolution of a billin dispute. The dispute arose when the letter cancelling our subcrip tions for the summer months, 1977 was apparently lost in th mail. The disagreement ha been resolved to the satisfactio of both parties. 

by John O'DonneU 

This year's Sophomore Literary Festival, which will begin on Feb. 12 and conclude on Feb. 18, consists of appearances and work­shops by artists in the literary field. 
According to Theresa Rebeck, chairman of the Sophomore Literary Committee, the theme of this festival is to capture the visions of literary artists as they address the Notre Dame community. 
The main attraction for this .i:estival will be Edward Albee, winner of two Pulitzer Prizes. Albee, one of the finest playwrights in America, has written such plays as: Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf; A Dellcate Balance; and his latest work, Seascape. Albee will be the 
· first speaker of the festival appear­~ng at 8 p.m. on Feb. 12, at W~hington Hall. T~ second speaker for this festivall;.:.ill be Karl Shapiro, a well known American poet. Shapiro has written V-Letter and Other Poems, which is a book of war poetry that has earned him a Pulitzer Prize, also. Shapiro will be 
appearing on Monday, Feb. 13, at 8 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
A workshop will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 14, in the Library Lounge beginning at 9:30 a.m. Appearing at this worksh()p will be Michael Sparough, a young Jesuit scholastic; Louie Zukofsky, an A­merican poet; and George Mac­beth, a British poet and novelist. The format for such workshops will be diverse--some will feature ques­tion and answer sessions, while others will consist of literary pres­entations. Sparough will conduct a workshop of his own on the same day beginning at 2:45 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
On Tuesday at 8 p.m., Zukofsky will appear at the Library Auditor­ium. Zukofsky is well respected in the poetry field and has been labeled by many peots as "the most important contemporary A­merican poet." 
Macbeth will make a presen­tation on Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Among Macbeth's works include the novel 
Samurai,  which  is  a  tale  of  a  
Japanese  soldier  found  in  the  
(continued on page 8]  

Friday, February 3, 1978

the observer 
------~-­

,....News Briefs____---... 

t============================= National 
Park questioninR· to beRin 
WASHINGTON -House ethics committee investigators announced yesterday they will begin closed door questioning of accused South Korean indluence peddler Tongsun Park on Feb. 21. 

Weather 
Variable cloudiness through Saturday with a chance of light snow at times. No large temperature changes. Lows tonight ten to 15 above. Highs today and tomorrow in the low to mid 20s. Probability of measurable precipitation: 30 percent through tonight. 

~On Campus Today_------.. 
mardi gras today through february 11  
2:15 pm  lecture, "scientists as subjects; a psychological imperative," dr. michael j. mahoney, penn state university, 119 haggar hall, sponsored by psychol­ogy dept.  
3:30 pm  lecture, "justice and foreign hospers, mem. lib. lounge.  policy,"  prof.  john  
4 pm  swimming, nd vs. butler ­ rockne memorial pool.  
4:15 pm  history forum, "career opportunities for histor­ians," peter Iombardo, rathskeller in Iafortune, sponsored by history dept. & union of graduate historians.  
5:15 pm  mass and supper, bulla shed.  
6 pm  mardi  gras,  live entertainment,  games,  refresh-­ 

ments, stepan center. 
6:30 pm meeting for anyone interested in working at the nazz this semester, basement of Iafortune. 7, 9, 11 pm movie, "fun with dick and jane," sponsored by the k of c, k of c hall, $1. 8 pm black cultural arts festival, sonia sanchez, lib. aud. 9 pm nau featuring jake schneider & bill carey, basement of Iafortune. saturday Bam test law school admission test, eng. aud. Bam test national league for nursing, 317 adm. bldg. 1:30pm basketball, nd vs. davidson, ace. 2 pm mardi gras live entertainment, games, refresh­ments, stepan center. 2 pm swimming, nd vs. st. bonaventure, rockne mem. pool. 7, 9, 11 pm movie, "fun with dick and jane," sponsored by the k of c, k of c hall. 8:15pm black cultural arts festival "talent in action" smc little theatre, no charge. 9.pm nau featuring rich stephenson & dan berenato, basement of Iafortune. sunday 1 pm wrestling national catholic invitational tournament, ace. 2 pm mardi gras live entertainment, games, refresh­ments, stepan center. 
7 pm black cultural arts festival black gospel service, rev. marvin russell and the nd gospet choir, alumni hall chapel. 
*The Observer 
Star Wars 
Night Editor: Luke Skywalker (he's so cute) "Joe Bauer" Asst. Night Editor: Katie "Princess Leia" Kerwin layout Staff: Sherry Mummert (a J c~wa), Mary Ann "Wook­ie" Cookie, Bob Brink (res­ident spaceman) Editorial layout: Obi "m" Kenobi (Mo Flynn) Features layout: Tony "Darth Vader" Pace , Frank Laurino "C3PO" 
Sports layout: See "Feat­
ures" (Darth again) Sand People Stacy Weaver, Tricia Meehan, Theresa Rich­eson • 
E.M.Ts; Leigh Tunakan (the broken R2 unit), Rich Clarizio (a Jedi Knight) Day Editor: Tom Nilsso11 (R2 D2) Copy Reader:Mike Lewis, Bob Varettoni (Imperial Storm Troopers) Ad layout: John P. O'Connel (Hans Solo-he's so macho) Photographer: Beth Corbin (another J awa) 

----... 
Mogab announces: 


Commencement plans expanded 
by Sue BaUmann Senior Reception will be held from 
8 p.m. to midnight. 

The traditional graduation activ­Commencement exercises will ities for St. Mary's have been begin at 10:30 a.m. on Saturday,expanded to two days rather than May 20, and will last approximately 
the usual one, according to Senior two hours. Following graduation, Class president Nancy Mogab. there will be a picnic and some type The baccalaureate Mass will take of reception for the speaker and the 
place at5 p.m. on Friday, May 19. recipients of honorary degrees. Either a picnic or a dinner will Despite some objections, Mogab follow the Mass at 6 p.m., and the feels that by spreading activities 
Group calls for committee on economic growth 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The White 
House Conference on Balanced 
Growth finished its work yesterday 
with a call for Congress to create a 
ioint committee to coordinate 
~ational economic growth policies. 
States and regions must prepare 
growth plans of their own, the 
conference said, to settle crucial 
local questions, such as the proper 
way to ensure both economic 
growth and environmental protec­
tion. 

In a report delivered orally to 
President Jimmy Carter, a confer­
ence task force said a congressional 
panel is needed to set national 
goals in areas such as employment, 
inflation and economic growth. 
The committee also would seek, 
"to reconcile conflicting laws, pro­
grams and regulations which im­
pact the communities of this 
nation," said councilwoman Phyllis 
Lamphere of Seattle, in summar­
izing the task force report for 
Carter. 

"We need a national growt~ and 
economic development policy, and 
we need it now." 

The task force report explained, 
"We are recommending a Growth 
Policies Process, not a master 
plan." 

Carter, in a speech that followed, 
the conference summaries, did not 
attempt to wrestle with specific 
recommendations. The official 
conference report will be submitted 
to Carter within six months, and he 
will have 90 days to respond with 
legislative initiative. 

The four-day White·· House Con­
ference, a congressional brain­
child brought together 500 dele­
gates from every state and ter­
ritory. 

The conference sought more job 
opportunity efforts, a streamlining 
of federal regulations and better 
coordination between governments 
-declaring to Carter their "Declar­
ation of Interdependenc." 
Delegates recommended that 
Washington take over the total cost 
of welfare and medicaid from state 
Griffin to offer 
More Mass 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplin, will offer a mass in celebration of Sir Thomas More's SOOth birthday on Monday at 12:15 
p.m. in the Law School Lounge. 

The Observer Is published Mon­d•y tllrough Frkl•v except during eum •nd v.atlon periods. Tl}e Observer Is published by tile students of Notre O.me and S•lnt M•rv'• College. Subsaiptlons m•y be purchued for $20 per ve• ($1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 46556. Second cless post1111e p•ld, Notre D•me. lndl•n•, 46556. 
The Obserwr Is • member of tile Assocqtecl Press. All repro­duction rights are reurvecl. 
governments, passing the huge savings along to local governments in a state assumption of public education costs. 
Carter commented that he couldn't help but note the applause every time a speaker called "for shifting the financial burden to Washington and the responsibility away from Washington.' He made no commitment toward federal takeover of state costs for welfare and medicaid. 
Carter, responding to the con­ference's warning against any at­tempt to guide the location of economic growth, agreed with "the inadvisability ofthe federal govern­ment trying to discipline a society based on free choice.'' 
over a two day period they won't be so crowded. "This way, people who have friends at Notre Dame will be able to attend their bac­calaureate Mass which starts at 5 
p.m. on Saturday. It will also give people more time to pack up or enable them to get an early start home on Saturday,'' Mogab stated. 
During the week immediately preceding graduation a Senior 


Class, Board of Regents, and Senior Administration picnic is planned along with the Senior­Alumnae Brunch and the Senior Mass and Dinner. This year the Junior-Senior Brunch has been moved to Senior Week in order that it may be combined with the Honors Convocation. 
The Honors Convocation is a ceremony in which the various academic departments and the College as a whole recognize the achievements of selected seniors through the presentation of awards. 



I I I I I 

JUNIOR CLASS TRIP 
to the 

Dayton Basketball Game 
March 4th and 5th 

TRIP INCLUDES 
-one ticket to the game -one nighfs lodging at a Holiday Inn -a party with the Junior Class of Dayton -Sunday morning breakfast -shuttle service around Dayton 

ONLY 36! 
Tickets on Sale in the dining halls $10 deposit required ticket sales extended through Feb. 8th 
Friday, February 3, 1978 
the observer 
3 


Defense Secretary urges 
Liquor stores $56 billion increase 
profit from storm 
Washington [ap]-Secretary of prompt criticism from a group by Tim Sullivan Defense Harold Brown said yester­of House liberals who appeared at day the United States must in­a news conference sponsored by While school closed Jan. 26-30, crease its defense spending by $56 SANE, an organization opposed to local liquor stores and bars re­billion over the next five years in what it says is excessive spending mained open to accommodate snow 
bound students. Both beverageorder to stay up with Russia. on defense. 
distributors and bars reported aHe said also that Soviet advances "I disagree with the concept of dramatic increase in sales duringin satellite destroying weapons are more planes, more missiles, more this time.
leaving the United States with little tanks and larger bombs," said One liquor store owner describedchoice but to get into a space Rep. Fred Richmond, D-N.Y. "WE the four days as "a very heavyweapons race with Russia. already have the capacity to defend demand indeed. We did a little"Because of our growing depend­ourselves." 
less business each day than on ence on space systems, we can "When you come up with a Christmas Eve, which is usuallyhardly permit them to have a defense budget like that, you our biggest day."dominant position in the anti­have to look at other areas that are Although local bars experienced a satellite realm," the Pentagon being squeezed," said Rep. Tom heavy turnout, the largest in· chief said in his annual report. Harkin, D-lowa. "Look at the 
creases in sales were reported by Thereport was issued the same day farmers who have been here asking 
liquor stores. Although store Brown went to Congress to ask for for a little more for the products of 
managers said it is still too early to $126 billion in military spending for their farms, and yet we can't 
give a "dollar and cents" figure on next year. squeeze anything out of the budget 
the snowstorm rush, they reported sell-out conditions on beer andThe total spending authority re­for them." 
wine, and a slightly smaller quested is up $9.2 billion from the The congressmen charged that demand for hard liquors.
authority voted by Congress for the budget was a violation of One manager stated, "Studentsthe current fiscal year. Brown said President Jimmy Carter's state­came in groups of three or morethe Pentagon is planning for ment during the 1976 presidential with backpacks, sacks, and evengrowth to a total budget of $172.7 campaign that defense expend­makeshift stretchers to carry casesbillion in fiscal 1983 to keep the itures could be reduced by about $5 and six-packs in. I think theyUnited States from falling behind billion to $7 billion per year didn't want to have to go out into Russia. without danger. 
the cold a second time, so theyThe budget request brought In his 375 page annual Defense loaded up for the weekend." He 
Report, the secretary said the main 

added that the demand was heav­objective "must be the mainte­
iest on Thursday and Friday,

Snow shovelers 
nance of an over-all balance with levelling off on Saturday. .

A familiar dorm room scene as students seek comfort from the
the Soviet Union no less favorable As a result of the sudden rush,

symptoms of the flu. [Photo by Beth Corbin]

still needed 
than the one that now exists." 
[continued on page 9] 

Students volunteers are needed to He described this balance as "a help shovel out South Bend citizens standoff or stalemate,"adding that who are still trapped. Anyone the Russians had the edge in some 
interested please contact the Volu­areas and the United States in nteer Services Office at 7308. 
others. 
open tonight-


tonight 9-11 pm JAKE SCHNEIDER 
and 


Bill CAREY 

sat. 9-11 


RICH STEVENSON and 
DAN BERENATO 


and special guest STARZ 


monday feb 27 7:30 pm notre dame a.c.c. 
All seats reserved : $7.00 floor festival style $7.00 reserved chair style $6.00 reserved bleacher 
on sale Monday at Student Ticket office at ACC. 
J-board progress discussed 
by Jenny Durk8111 

pay the fine and demand a hear­Under the system now awaitng ing," Talbot explained. The ratification by the hall councils, the Student Body President Dave judicial co-ordinator added that this j-board chairmen would meet on a Bender and Judicial Coordinator right applies to any case involving a regular basis to discuss problemsJohn Talbot met with hall judicial hall offense. arising from disciplinary policy.
board chairmen last night and Bender and Talbot reviewed the The proposed council will elect as discussed the progress of the new judicial board structure with the its chairman the judicial co-ordinat­judicial board system established hall chairmen, re-emphasizing the or who would sit on the Jloard of 

last semester by the Board of differences in the new code. A hall Commissioners. 

Trustees. 

judicial board chairman, according Talbot commented that the j­
Bender revealed that letters had to the revised procedures, is now board chairmen reacted positively
been sent to Cavanaugh Hall selected by the outgoing j-board to the new proposal, and "expres­
Rector Fr. Matthew Miceli and chairman, the hall president or his sed an interest in meeting reg­
Planner Hall Rector Fr. John 

representative from the hall coun­ularly." Mulcahy, urging them to comply cil, and the rector of his appointee Talbot indicated that he was 
with the new judicial guidelines as 

from the hall staff. Members of the encouraged by the attendance at soon as possible. He described the judicial boards are chosen by the meeting, at which 20 of Notre two halls as "in flagrant violation application to the same group. Dame's 21 halls were represented.with the trustees measure.:' 
Previously, the structure of each 
Copies ofthe letters were went to 

j-board was determined by the 
University President Father Theo­· Volunteers
individual hall. 
dore Hesburgh, Brother Just Pac­

"Standardizing the hall judicial 
zesny, vice-president for student 

board system gives the boards aJot 
affairs, dean of students James more credibility." remarked Tal­needed for SOS Roemer, and John Schneider, bot. 
The Women's Committee on Sexchairman of the Student Affairs The new authority of the hall Offenses is seeking prospectiveCommittee of the Board of Trus­judicial board was also discussed at volunteers for their Sex Offensetees. the meeting. Two halls, Keenan Staff (SOS), a confidential, emo­"We have received reports that and Fisher, reported that they had tional support service for victims of thes.e two halls are more or less already successfully handled cases sexual abuse in St. Joseph County.
ignoring the new guidelines, said involving marijuana violations. 
Volunteers are men and womenBender. In addition the SBP stated The j-board chairmen also com­who can accompany a victim whenthat he would ''be willing to go to 
pared penalties fixed by the boards 
seeking medical or legal attention. 
the respective halls and work with in the various halls. Most agreed They are also available for tele­the rectors and the j-board chair­that fines were inappropriate, and phone contact. 
men in setting up a judicial system that some type of work activity was The SOS volunteers can beto comply with the new proced-the most effective form of punish­reached 24 hours a day, 7 days aures." • ment. 
week through Hotline, a cns1sTalbot fielded questions from Some chairmen were uncertain intervention telephone service. 
j-board chairmen about student about the current policy towards A ten-session training programrights in disciplinary procedures. 
alcohol use on campus. Bender 
will begin in March with eveningHe attempted to clarify the position stated, ''that Student Government sessions. Training focuses on theof the student accused of a hall will try to clear up the policy in the needs of victims, psychologicallyoffense under the new guidelines. 
next few weeks. 
and emotionally.
"If a rector tries to levy a In another matter, Talbot briefed Anyone interested in becoming apunishment without informing a the chairmen en the nw Judicial volunteer or learning more aboutkid that he has the option to a 
Council proposed in the revised 
SOS should call Hotline-(232-3344). 
j-board hearing, he can refuse to Student Government Constitution. 

ILOUIES w 
:E 
<(

I 
C>

ISPECIAL w 
J:

._.. 1 
I 0::: 
IHAPPY ._..w 
LL

I <( j 
._.. ~
I <( 
V)

1-iOUR 
Friday, February 3, 1978

the observer 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 

INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 13 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday 
through Friday. 
Feb 13 
~ 
Feb 13/14 Mon/Tues 
Feb 14 
Tues 
Feb 15 
we;r-
Feb 15/16 Wed/Thurs 
Feb 16 Thurs 
Feb 17 Fri 
Bankers Life BM in all disciplines. ~er Instruments, Inc B in ME and EE. Harris Trust and Savings Bank B in Econ. All BBA, 
Johnson Wax 
B in Fin. MBA with Acct backgrnd Nalco Chemical Co B in ChE, ME, CE, EE, Met, Chern, Naval Ordnance Station 
cancelled. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Group BM in ME, AE, Engr Sci, ChE, Met, 
Certain-Teed Corp BBA, MBA. BM in EE, ME, ChE. 3M Company 
13) B in ChE and ME. 
14) B in Acct. 
Allied Van Lines 
B in Acct. MBA with Acct backgrnd Brunswick Corporation B in Acct, ME, MEIO The Budd Co B in Mgt, MBA. B in ME. Lucky Steer Restaurants, Inc 
All BBA. Northern Illinois Gas Co B in all Engr disciplines. Reliance Electric Co B in EE, ME, MEIO 
American Air Filter Co, Inc B in ChE, CE, EE, ME. Arthur Andersen & Co 
or concentration 
or concentration 

MBA for Administrative Services (Mgt Consulting). The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc MBA. Leeds & Northrup Co B in EE, ME, ChE. Manufacturers National Bank 
B in Econ. BBA. MBA with Fin backgrnd. B in Comp Sci, Math. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co B in all disciplines. 
Morse Chain Div. Borg-Warner Corp (CANCELLED) B in Econ, Mkt, Mgt, ME, MEIO, CE, EE, Math, Physics for Tech Sales. Procter & Gamble Co B in AL and BA. MBA, Any major with strong interest in Accounting and Finance, Procter & Gamble Co, Sales Management B in AL and BA. MBA, ­
Eli Lilly and Co 
15) MBA. 
16) BM in ChE and ME. 
Aetna Life & Casualty. Casualty Div. B in all disciplines. Burroughs Corp All BBA. (South Bend and Ft. Wayne areas) Indiana State Highway Commission BM in CE. International Paper Co B in Fin, Acct, EE, ME, ChE. Montgomery Elevator Co B in Mkt, Mgt, ME, MEIO, EE, CE. Wilson Foods Corp B in Acct, Fin, Mgt, Biol, Chern, Microbiol. 
Chicago Department of Public Works 
BM in CE, ME, EE. Cummins Engine Co B in ME and MEIO. 
B. G, Danis Co B in CE. Detroit P.ank & Trust Co B in Fin and Acct. Gulf Oil Corp 
M,D in ChE and ME. JMB Realty Corp MBA. National Life & Accident Ins. Co B in all disciplines. Peoples Gas Light and Coke Co B in EE, ME, CE, ChE. UARCO AilBBA. 
Libraries use computer 
by Sue Wuetcher 

For the past two years the University Libraries have been subscribing to a new computerized system that will save time and money, according to David L. Sparks, director of the University Libraries. 
Sparks stated that there are over 
1.3 million volumes in the Libraries and over 2.5 million cards in the card catalogue. "The average cost of cataloguing a book is 17.5 dollars. That's a lot of money," Sparks said. 
The system, which is called the Ohio College Library Center '(OCLC), cuts the cost of cata­loguing books almost in half. A 
• computer stores data in a central file in Columbus, OH. Data is fed through telephone lines to termin­als at the various universities. Sparks said that when the Uni­versity wants to catalogue a book, the information is sent through the computer, which makes up the cards and then sends them back to the Universitv. Robert Havlik, assistantdirector ofTechnical Ser­vices, noted that all the filing and arranging is also done electron­ically, which saves the employees a lot of time. 
Sparks said that if OCLC doesn't 
Rugby Club holds meeting 
There will be an organizational meeting for the Notre Dame Rugby Club on Monday at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The spring trip will be discussed and officers for this semester will be elected. New members are encouraged to attend. For more information call Tom Byrne at 1574. 
have a particular book in its file, it will create a record of it and enter it into the file. This is how the file grows, enabling the individual libraries to increase their re­sources. 
Sparks commented that the col­lection development department of the Library as well as the cat­aloguing department benefits from OCLC. It is faster and more convenient to use the computer to find out if the library has a particular book, he added. 

SCOTTSDALE MALL (Ireland and Miami Road) Phone: 291-6164 

~ STORES ~~ 
SIDEWALK SALlE $10.99 straight sale feb. 3,4,5 

MEL BROOKS 

starring 

MADELINE KAHN •CLORIS lEACHMAN· HARVEY KORMAN 
a~ostarria& DICK VAN PATTEN· RON CAREY· HOWARD MORRIS AMEl BROOKS FilM ·Produced and Directed by MEl BROOKS Written by MEl BROOKS •RON ClARK •RUDY DelUCA· BARRY LEVINSON •Music by JOHN MORRIS 
Color by IJaUXf® NOW AN ACE PAPERBACK IMUSIC FROM "HIGH ANXIETY" AVAilABLE ON ELEKTRA/ASnUM RECORDS ' TAPEs.j 

@.11978 20TH CENTURV·FOX 


STARTS FRIDAY FEB 3 
Check your local newspaper for theatre listing 

• 

Friday, February 3, 1978 
Morale low at Chicago paper 


Punxsutawney Phil says:
Daily News to fold? 
six more weeks of winter 
CHICAGO [AP] -The venerable Chicago Daily News, one of the country's oldest evening news­papers and one with a revered history, is likely to cease publica­tion at the end of February, according to televised reports. 
Local television reporters said · Wednesday night that the news­paper's fate has been decide by management of Field Enterprises, which also publishes the morning Sun-Times. Officials of the news­paper declined comment. 
The rumors, which have circu­lated for months, predicting the 
Junior Classes plan Dayton trip 
The Junior Classes of SMC-ND are going to support the Fighting Irish basketball team in Dayton. They will be leaving their respec­tive communities at approximately 
7:30 a.m., March 4, by bus. A ticket to the game will be provided. They will be staying at the Holiday Inn with four to a room. 
Following the game, the Dayton Student Body and SMC-ND Junior Oass is sponsoring a party at the Dayton Armory. There will be all the beer you can drink, all the food you can eat and all the live music you can dance to. 
Breakfast is also provided on Sunday morning prior to returning to South Bend. 
Tickets are on sale now in all dining halls. A $10.00 deposit is due by next Wednesday with the remaining $26.00 due by Feb. 17. 

~\chits Nickies 
February 
White Sale 

Happy Hour this Friday 
---------.. 4-6 pm
BEERS 40¢ 1 
I

7&7's 50¢ 1 ------~--.1 5-7 pm
mon.-tnurs. 
burger & beer $1.5 


UNLESS YOU PRINT YOUR OWN ... 
. it seems like a stlident never comes up with enough money to cover school expenses and hove anything left over to just enjoy. . 
If you ·re one of those people who has to spend too much study time earning school money, read on. Air Force ROTC offers a four, three or two-year scholarship for those who con qualify. The plan pays $100 a month for expenses, plus all tuition, book costs and lab fees. 
While you·re working on your degree, you·re also working toward a commission in the Air Force. After graduation and commissioning, you'll enter active duty, and discover o whole new world. 
You'll find challenge, responsibility, o demand for your talents, and o high regard for what you·re contributing. There·s more. As an officer in the Air Force you'll hove an excellent salary with o full slate of benefits. 
Look into AFROTC scholarships. And while you·re at it ask about the Air Force way of life. You'll discover more than just o way to make your finances come out while you're in college. You'll discover o whole new world of opportunity. 

BOTC 

Gateway' too great way of life. 
paper' end were rampant Wednes­day in the Daily News, newsroom. Morale was sodden, as staffers helplessly fielded queries from other news organizations about the paper's future and pondered their own. 
During the day, a statement issued by James Hoge, editor-in­chif of both newspapers, was posted in the Daily News newsroom saying: 
"For some time now we have declined to comment on recurring rumors concerning the Daily News. 
At this time, no fresh decisions requiring public discussion have been reached.'' 
Advertising sales officials at WLS-TV, WBBM-TV, and WMAQ­TV, the local ABC, CBS and NBC stations, said the newspaper's ad agency had requested that sched­uled commercials be canceled as soon as possible. One station said th~ agency attributed the request to "a budget cutback." 
WLS-TV reporter Jay Levine said the 102-year-old newspaper's fate ''was sealed at a meeting last Saturday" of Daily News and Field officials. The decision to fold "was formalized and refined at another meeting late last night," he said. 
The newspaper will announce to its staff that unless the employees' unions can Jtelp resolve the Daily News' financial difficulties stem­ming from falling circulation, the paper will fold in 28 days, the WLS report said. 
Meanwhile, WBBM-TV reported that the newspaper would an­nounce today that it would close operations on Feb 28. 

A series of meetings reportedly have been held between Field Enterprises management and of­ficials of the newspaper's various unions over possible measures to help cut losses. One reported proposal includes a 20 percent across-the-board pay cut. 
Such a move, to a four-day work week, was instituted successfully a few years ago at the Washington Star in a successful attempt to keep that paper afloat. 
The full-size Daily News, once considered among the elite news­papers in America, prestigious and influential, was founded in 1876 by Victor Lawson, who was also an important figure in the develop­ment of the Associated Press. The Daily News Foreign Service, which ceased last year, was the first established by a newspaper. 
Among the paper's honors have been 15 Pulitzer Prizes. 
But, in recent years, the Daily News, which publishes Monday through Saturday, has sustained severe circulation losses, plum­meting from 466,00 in 1965 to reportedly close to 300,000. 
Sadat begins worldwide tour to rally Mideast peace support 
CAIRO* EGYPT [AP)-President 
Anwar Sadat began a world tour 
yesterday to rally support for his 
Mideast peace initiatives and seek 
President Jimmy Carter's help in 
pressuring Israel for concessions 
on issues that have deadlocked 
negotiations. 

"I hope this trip will add 
momentum to the peace process," 
Sadat said before flying to Rabat, 
Morocco, where he planned to 
confer with King Hassan, a sup­
porter of his peace campaign. 

Sadat is scheduled to arrive in Washington today for talks tomor­
row and Sunday with Carter at 
Camp David, Md. He will stay in 
Washington until Wednesday, and 
on his way home will talk with 
government leaders in Britain, 
France, West Germany, Austria, 
Itally and Romania. 

Western diplomats here said no 
dramatic breakthrough should be 
expected from the Camp David 
meeting and that Carter invited 
Sadat to Washington to get a better 
idea of what the Egyptian leader 
wants -and what he expects to 
happen next. 

Sadat insists that the Israelis 
withdraw from all Arab territory 
occupied since the Six-Day War of 
1967 and self-determination for the 
Palestinians proposals Israel has 
PUNXSUTAWNEY* PA. [AP]­Punxsutawney Phil won't find many friends among sunbathers and gardeners again this year, According to his calculations, spring is still far off. 
About 300 students, townsfolk and reporters joined in a sunrise ceremony at Cobbler's Knob yes­terday as the celebrated groundhog looked for his shadow and, finding it, predicted six more weeks of winter. 
Legend has it that spring is around the corner if the current Phil does not see his shadow when he emerges from a winter slumber Feb. 2. Since 1887, Phil has predicted an extended winter nearly every year. 
Yesterday's ceremony took place at new, snow-covered digs, about half amile from Phil's ceremonial burrow of previous years. 
Dressed in topcoats and tails, members of the Punxsutawney Groundhog Club gathered around as club president Charles Erhard rapped on the double orange doors to Phil's tree stump burrow with a 
refused to consider. 
A Cairo source said Sadat was on the verge of asking the United States to formulate a "set of principles" along the lines sug­gested by Carter on Jan. 4, when he conferred with the Egyptian president at the Aswan airport. 
Carter said then that a settle­ment should be based on establish­ment of normal relations between Israel and the Arab states, Israel's withdrawal from occupied territory, recognition of the "legitimate rights" of the Palestinians and their participation in the determin­ation of their future. But Western diplomats note that Carter omitted the word "total" when he sug­gested Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands and they say Egyptians view this as significant. 
Egyptian sources say Sadat's concept of self-determination for the Palestinians means he en­visions a quasi-independent Pal­estinian entity on the West Bank of the Jordan River closely linked with Jordan. 
Israeli Prime Minister Men­achem Begin has offered limited self-rule for the 1.1 million Pales­tinians living in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and contends an independent Palestinian state would threaten Israel's security. 
gnarled cane. 
''The forecast is for six more weeks of winter," Erhard pro­nounced after brief consultation with the whiskery prophet, cradled in the arms of another club member. 
While Punxsutawney residents boast their yearly forecaster is the best known of rodent weathermen, other groundhog clubs have tried to challene Phil's status: 
In Quarryville, Pa., south-east of here, members of the Quarryville Slumbering Lodge of Groundhogs said two ground hogs emerged from their riverside dens and also predicted six more weeks of winter. 
Chuckie, the groundhog at the Peoria, Ill., zoo poked his head out of his burrow and couldn't find his shadow, indicating, for Peoria at least, that spring is on its way. 
And, as expected, Jimmy the groundhog forecast another six weeks of wintery weather in Wis­consin. Jimmy's owner, Eric Lenz of Sun Prairie, said Jimmy has been wrong about when spring would come four times in the last 14 years. 
After Sadat broke .off political talks with Israel in Jerusalem on Jan. 18, sources said the United States drafted a peace formula based on Carter's Jan. 4 proposals, but that both Israel and Egypt rejected it. 
Western diplomats here said they have no idea what, if any­thing, Carter could offer that both Sadat and Begin would accept. But an Egyptian source said it "is time for the United States to c:l"l some­thing" and that Carter "can't sit on the fence any longer." 
Before Sadat's departure, ne­gotiations here between Egyptian and Israeli defense ministers on proposals for Israel's withdrawal from the Sinai Penisola were 
suspended and the Israeli negoti­ators returned to Tel Aviv. 
A communique issued Wednes­day night said the two sides would consult on the date of their next meeting. Sources said the Israelis left after failing to t 'acb agreement on the issue of Israeli settlements in Sinai, but neither the Egyptians nor the Israelis would comment. The Cairo talks had resumed on Tuesday after a three week recess. 
Sadat met Wednesday with U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Alfred Atherton, and an Egyptian spokes­man said they discussed issues that will be brought up at Camp David. Sadat rejected the wording of a declaration of principles for an Arab-Israeli peace settlement that Atherton and Israeli Foreign Mini­ster Moshe Dayan worked on. 
SMC Belles beat Bethel 

The Saint Mary's Basketball team won their third game of the season Thursday night as they defeated Bethel College, 91-23. SMC led 50-8 at halftime and Coach Carolyn Willig substituted freely in the second half. 
Last week Saint Mary's topped 
Valparaiso 54-46. The Belles 
amassed a sixteen point lead before 
Valpo got back into the game in the 
second half. The Valparaiso come­
back was keyed by fine outside 
shooting. Saint Mary's, however, 
never trailed in the contest. 
The game's high scorer with 12 
points was Nancy Wowalk for the 
Belles. 
Saint Mary's record now stands 
at J-2 and they clash with Notre 
Dame in the ACC Monday night at 
7:00.i11 


Thanks for pulling together 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the entire Saint Mary's student body, I want to thank the maintenance, grounds, security, and food service staffs at Saint Mary's for jobs well done beyond the call of duty. 
The "esprit de corps" shown by all of them during the blizzard of 1978 was highly commendable!!! They all pulled togeth~r and pro­vided excellent servtce to the student body. 
Once again. a hardy thanks to all I 
Mary Rukavina 

President, SMC Student Body 
Thanks for operation snow shovel 
Dear Editor: 
Last Monday (1-30) following a radio announcement, I called Notre Dame to inquire about the stu­dents' snow-help program. I am still crippled following knee sur­gery and the snow in my drive is 67 inches deep. . 
Within two hours my 30-ft. wall of snow was flying in four direc­tions, with as many students manning the shovels. 
I doubt that strong, resourceful young people can ima_gine what it is like to see a mountam and not be able to whittle it away. So you may not know how very much your operation snow shovel was app~ec­iated by its scores of benefictanes. 
May I say thanks, on behalf of those whom you helped, to all of the NO students who donned boots and mittens and set out on these missions of mercy -to John Ryan who took my call, and especially to Mike Mowatt, Gary Gerken, Chris Ranieri, and Don Ginocchio, who shoveled me out. 
Mn.J.P.Donohue 
'Sex Pistols' a misfire? A reply 
Dear Editor: 
After reading what I thought was to be a feature story on a revolu­tionary new rock group, the Sex Pictols, I find myself utterly dis­gus1ed with the unique analogy the author made between a group of 
crude, uncivilized "musicians" 
who thlli.ve on gross spectacle, and 
his classmates on the Saint Mary's 
campus. The correlation between 
the two has thoroughly escaped 
me, even after reading the article 
four times, but apparently I've 
missed something. 
The information regarding the 
Sex Pistols was somewhat enlight­
ening to those whose tastes t~nd 
toward the bizarre, but prefacmg 
this account with a melodramatic 
telephone conversation between 
the author and his "girlfriend" was 
not only unnecessary but defama­
tory to the women of Saint Mary's. 
The author characterized one, and 
thus all, Saint Mary's stude~~s as 
"small and obnoxious creeps and 
burping cretins (regrettably, t_his 
term refers to a person suffermg 
from a congenital deficiency . of 
thryoid secretions with result~ng 
deformity and idiocy). Accordmg 
to him, they apparently have 
nothing better to do but party and 
drink at his expense. In response 
to all of this abuse, the author was 
being subjected to "just for a 
date,'' he questioned the reason for 
it all since this girl, supposedly 
representative of the Saint Mary's 
community, was neither good-look­
ing nor intelligent. 
At this point, all I could wonder was how he can survive the pressures of college life if he. vents his frustrations by threatemng to spit on a girl's face, rip off her clothes, burn her room and then instead has a beer and rips his own phone off the wall. I ~?reed_ with him when he said he felt hke a moron," I sympathize with the problems in his love life; I could even overlook his "subtle" miscal­culation of Jean's birthday. I do, however, vehemently object to his generalizations about the women at Saint Mary's. 
Although the author may_ be ~n authority on popular music, hts Arts and Letters curriculum has left him with little knowledge of the basics in human consideration and respect. He has so stereotyped Saint Mary's students that what may have been intended as a. an amusing anecdote is actually a very tiresome, bad joke. If he was so compelled to relate this trag~c incident, why did he find It necessary to specifically . atta~k Saint Mary's women as tf thetr behavior, like that of the Sex Pistols, is somehow reflective of their name? 
Before finishing the article I was hoping that perhaps upon gradua­tion Mr. Salemi could replace Glenn Matlock who had been fired for his indiscretions, strangling the other members of the group. Unfortunately, I see he has been replaced by Sid Vicious but per­haps the author of "The Rage of the Sex Pistols" could find some suitable outlet for his literary talents with the group. 

Honey McHugh 
***** 

(Mr. Salemi replies: "It was not my intention to denigrate Saint Mary's women; the fact that the girl was from Saint Mary's was only incidental. I have dated several Saint Mary's girls and found them to be generally pleas­ant and stimulating. What I was trying to do was to construct a parallel between my anger in that situation and the Sex Pistols' anger towards everything. I felt that no description of their antics could have done enough to illustrate their anger. Finally, I would like to s~y that I am not frustrated and am, m fact, quite satisfied with my love life." 
To Mr. Mason: a 'valentine' 
Dear Editor: This is an open letter to Mr. Mason: 
One day 21 groundskeepers wanted to unionize, and then there were no groundskeepers. The spotlight hit an enthusiastic and effective student government that 
just happened to slip backstage after Fr. Hesburgh promised the reinstated grounds crews an elec­tion. I suppose he just misplaced that open and sincere letter to the 
NO family. · Then just after the "October bribe" episode. an "unspecified" grounds crew was swallowed up by a group 20 times larger, and you said "Bye-bye" to over 200 members ot tne family: "You're working for someone else." Well now so the federal govern­ment has n~thing better to do with taxpayers' money so they come to South Bend to pick on Notre Dame and hear about some things you didn't do. You're right, these are trying times. You know you do have until the middle of February to help Fr. Hesburgh rifle his desk drawers for that letter, or you can just grab a front seat for the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. Name withheld by request 

Student staff~ b earn thanks ~0 server 
every meal Editorials 
Dear Editor: This is an open letter to the 
But for only a handful of staffstudent body: and regular employees, the task ofMonday evening dinner marked preparing and serving the meals,the end of what was probably the and then cleaning up afterwardsroughest five days that any of us in was carried out by the studentthe foodservice here have ever employees. It was their perfor­experienced. Through these five mance under very adverse condi­days, the only inconveniences ex­tions that kept the meals coming.
perienced by most of our patro~~:s Through this difficult period, not were a little longer than normal watt once did I hear a complaint fromin line, a reduced salad selection, anyone. 
and a shortage of milk. Over all, I guess we all take for granted 
they were problems hardly worth the work performed by the students 
mentioning. and dismiss any thought of it with 
But please don't misunderstand "big deal, they get payed for it," 
me. The purpose of this letter is but I think we should all take a 
not to solicit praise for the dining minute to stop and say thank you to 
halls, but for a group of workers the student workers we pass by the 
whom you, the NO student body, next time we're in the dining hall. 
take for granted, and often un-Let's not thank them for just the 
knowingly abuse -the student ''above and beyond the call of 
employees. Had it not been for this duty" job they did over the past 
group of unselfish young adults five days, but for the thankless jobs 
pitching in, doing every task asked they perform everyday, meal after 
of them and still volunteering to do meal through the whole yP.ar. 
more, your bill of fare for five days James A. Thalacker 
could possibly have been cold cuts' Asst. Mgr./Servlce 
and Coke. South Dining Hall 
seriously, folks.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~ 
Feeling Blue With Unglamorous Flu 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart buchwald 
WASHINGTON -Every year arm off while sawing down a tree,they give it a different name. One tell him I'm only taking flu calls."
year they call it the Hong Kong With flu you go through manyFlu; the next year they call it Virus stages. The first is chills, achingA 1, then Texas Flu. No matter bones, sore throat and sniffles. Allwhat they call it, to the person who you want to do is sleep. This is the has it, it's just plain flu. 
best stage, because the days fly by

The problem with flu is that it has and you really don't care about no sex to it. It's not one of those anything. glamorous diseases you can make 
The second stage is when you stillan entire movie about. When you feel punk but are aware o~ w~at iscallsomeoneup and say you've got going on around you. Thts IS thethe flu, they don't say, "I'll ~e most miserable period. If, forright over.'' The usual response IS, example, your wife lea_ves ~o~ for"I'll see you in August." 

an hour to buy grocenes, It IS atEven doctors don't want to talk to that moment that the Roto-Rooter people who have the flu. Most of man arrives and says, "I got 200them leave strict instructions with feet of coil. You think that'stheir nurses. "If anyone calls and enough?"

tells,you they have the flu--I'm out. Or the man from United Parcel 
I'm wise to those instructions, so Service rings the bell and says,when I called my doctor and the "The people next door aren't hom~. nurse asked what was wrong, I Mind if I leave the package wtth 
said, "Nothing really. Just tell the you?" doctor I was sawing down a tree The third stage of flu is when you and I cut off my arm.'' think you're getting well and start 
My doctor was on the phone in yelling, "I have to get out of this two minutes. house or I'll go crazy." The truth "What kind of saw was it?" he is, you're not ready to go yet, but wanted to know. depending on th~ relation~hip_ you
"I lied," I said. "I have the flu." have with your wtfe she will either 
"That's a terrible thing to do to a insist you stay in bed a couple mo~e doctor," he said. "Here I am days, or encourage you to go out tn dealing with more sick people than the sleet and snow. I can handle, and you bot~;r 
me The most dangerous stage of fluwtth somethtng like the flu. . 
is strangely, the final one.

"People with the flu can be stck, That's when you think you're alltoo," I said defensively. 
better but for some reason have"Yes." he said. "But doctors beco~e hooked on the daytimecan't do anything about them. All soap operas and game shows, and we can prescribe is rest, liquids refuse to leave the house becauseand aspirin." 

you're afraid you'll miss a"I knew you'd say that," I said. 

sequence.

"Then why did you call?" he I guess the best way to tell whenwanted to know. 
you're completely over the flu is to

"Because I just wanted it on the on
watch one of the game showsrecord that I called you in case I TV. If Candice Bergen can't winreally got sick." 

$25,000 for some widow from Baton "It's been noted," he said. 

Rouge, and it doesn't bother you,"Doctor," I said. 
you know it's time to go back to"Now what is it?" he said. 

work.
"I love you," I said. 

I heard him shout at his secretary, [c! 1978, ln'i Angeles Times "Ifanyone calls and says he cut his 
Syndk ;e 


~--~~----~ 
Friday, February 3, 1978 
Letters to a Lonely God 
In Loco lnfantis 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
Loneliness--in one of its manifestations, I am told--is an experience faced in the gray, chilly dawn when you wake up with the awareness that there is no creature on earth you are responsible for, and no creature on earth is respon­sible for you. This kind of loneliness --celibacy seen on the shabby side-­can never be entirely the lot of a man who owns a dog accustomed to tapping his pillow with a demanding paw as if to say:"Look,Griff sir. I'm cold, and I'm hungry and thirsty, and I need to be walked. My life and comfort are entirely in your hands, so please get up and take care of me." 
A priest committed to be celibate hopes his aloneness will be fruitful; his chastity, he thinks, is vowed to free him from worry, for the service of the Church. But there are evenings and mornings when the 
Hauing him with me has taught me, in the most elemental wa!l, to be concerned with the needs of two liues instead of one. 
Church seems to go cheerfully on its way, as indifferent to a celibate priest as it might be to a polygamous one. It seems weak to admit being cheered by a puppy's snore; but until the priest and afford to adopt orphans, a dog seems the best way of sharing the emptiness of a bedroom. A dog, cared for and cherished, scarcely compromises the demands of his ministry. 
Today is the birthday of Djtrby O'Gill cocker spaniel in the service of the University Chaplain and solitary beast among the Beautiful People of the campus ministry at Notre Dame. Eight years ago 
ASouth Bend Urban Plunge 
I made my Urban Plunge in South Bend, and, although I couldn't honestly say it changed my life drastically, the experience did give me a look at city life I probably would not have received on my own. 
Our Catholic Committee on Urban Mini­stry (CCUM) contacts in South Bend, Sr. Susan and Fr. Frank, are affiliated with the Justice and Peace Center, a west side neighborhood social action headquarters run by the Holy Cross order. They carry out diverse functions, from helping to arrange bond to release for persons awaiting sentencing to driving residents to doctor appointments or the welfare office. 
They took turns being our guides, starring with a public defenders office where Jeanne Swartz explained the legal sys­tem's pressures on the poor. We sat in on several arraignments in the Misdemeanor ("cafeteria") Court where 77 cases were pushed through in less than 5 hours, and accompanied Sr. Susan when she visited a teenage prisoner in the St. Joseph County Jail. 
We attended Mass at St. Augustine's, a predominantly black parish on the West side, and visited Sr. Marita's Primary Day School. This extraordinary·woman devised a conceptual method for teaching reading and has achieved enormous success with children who have failed first grade in the public shcools. 
After a few hours in her classroom, I couldn't help but catch the enthusiasm of the students. Besides teaching them the basics such as the alphabet and multiplica­tion tables, Sr. Marita has given her students another chance to be successful by helping them to build more positive self images.
Finally, we talked to the social services director of the St. Joseph County welfare office and the staff of the Citizen's Action Coalition, a community organizing group. From their comments we learned about social action from an agency's standpoint: welfare programs, concerned with indivi­today, Darby O'Gill was born as the runt of his litter. Seven weeks later, being neither ordained nor religiously professed, he was drafted into God's service as a secular comforter and lay preacher, using, for gospel and sacrament, only his own floppy-eared cuteness. Having him with me has taught me, in the most elemental way, to be concerned 
with the needs of two lives instead of one. Some weeks, I spend niore on his food than I do my own (thank God, he doesn't drink). His haircuts (three a year) cost more than mine (two a year);and I couldn't afford to see the doctor as often as he does, heart worms and ticks not being problems I have to guard against. He never worries whether I am chaste or legal, but I have to keep him decent on and on the sunnyside of the law; otherwise, he would end up being neutered or in the 
dog pound. Whenever we travel, he costs me air fare or train fare (the buses won't take him);if we go by car, he insists on a seat by the window. An animal can survive neglect more easily than a child, but a dog cannot survive 
graciously without being cared for; and he might not live to be very old if he doesn't have a chap to belong to who will take him ,n at night, and let him out in the morning, and keep him off the 'streets at other times when the cops are looking for unregistered mutts. 
If you are a chap belonging to a dog like Darby, you are dept busy turning 
dual and family needs, and community organizing which rallies neighborhood residents into concerned groups with power to affect change. 
The Plunge left me with a more realistic estimation of poverty and social injustice, both issues previously being little more than hazy, textbook terms in my mind. On the other hand, my estimation is necessa­rily limited because of the short duration of the Plunge. A lot of injustice and a lot of proposals to correct these injustices can be seen in 48 hours, but I saw only examples and not an actual process of problem-

Freddie, Freddie-the network maker 
Los Angeles (AP)-News of the future, 1981: Fred Silverman, the programming genius who led CBS, then ABC, then NBC to dominance in the rating, just accepted a job as president of PBS. 
"Heck, there's only one network left to conquer now," he said in a stateme~t issued by jubilant executives of the Pubhc Broadcasting Service. He immediately plunged into program meetings. 
Sources say he already has scheduled three new series for public television­"Downstairs, Downstairs," "Eastham­pton Beach Bums" and a drama about ancient Rome called "I, Laverne." 
Silverman, who joined PBS moments after his $500,000 a year contract as NBC's president expired, said he was "excited and challenged by this new opportunity, even though it doesn't pay much." 
PBS declined to make public his new salary. But sources said part of it will come from the nation's 212 public television stations next month in what is to be called "Freddie's Pledge Week.'' 

door knobs that the dog can't turn himself. On the other hand, Darby protects 
me from the visits of cats. Because of him, cats never come near me, even in other people's houses. Other dogs may come near me, but they do so at the peril of their lives. Darby simply will not stand for other dogs in our digs, or near 
our  digs,  or  even  on  our  side  of the  
campus.  
I'm also  never  bothered by butterflies.  

Darby would tear a butterfly apart with his teeth, if it bothered me or him or our room. In October, he snaps at flies. but I can't say:"Darby, let that fly loose," because he wouldn't do it. He would never give up a fly, once he had caught it, no matter how embarrassed I got. So I let him catch flies, though I don't 
encourage him. I also let him trap cockroaches, found crawling on the rug (not a comment on the housekeeping since the dorms are full of them); and I let him mash spiders that he finds skittering up the walls. He would love to be the death of mosquitoes, though mosquitoes are too quick for him. But at night, in summer, he sometimes crashes down on me as I sleep, and I wake up knowing a mosquito's whine has been keeping him watchful in the heated darkness. 
Darby is celibate, not because he wants to be, but because I make him. He would be lonely too, if he wasn't serving in campus ministry, and if he didn't have me to worry about. He is always mindful of what I am doing, and he never wants me <o do it alone. If I am showering, he comes into the bathroom to watch me. If I am despondent, he will bring me his yellow ball to play with. If I am grouchy, he will make growling noises in his throat, to let me know what I sound like when I act like a dog. 
I <;lid not need Darby to turn the gray dawns of my life into sunshine, because I've never faced many mornings shabby with loneliness. He reminds me, by his life and company, of all the friends I have needed, and of all the friend~ who--I think--have needed me. It has been an honor to have so gentle a creature as Darby for a dependent; no other creature, perhaps, will ever be as dependent on a lame, shabby, horny beast I am solely responsible for. He has been cheaper to maintain than an orphan; having only him, I have been able to keep a previous commitment of aloneness, lovingly made to the Church. Outside of orphans them­selves, he is the best companion I could have chosen, for myself in rooms that need sharing, and for his other chums for whom he carries on his seculat ministry as charismatic cocker. 
Happy birthday, Darby O'Gill. I could never have made it without you. 

solving. An Urban Plunge is valuable because it acts like a slap of reality ,a stinging slap which can be only 
temporary if the Plunge's impact is allowed to dissolve into an isolated personal experience. The two day's experience can, however, be a springboard for furthur inquiry and additional participation in social justice activities. I do not plan on a career in community organizing or any other social service field; therefore, I was confused at how to integrate the Plunge with my plans in the field of journalism. We discussed this personal challenge at 
Industry observers were puzzled by Silverman's move. There were no rumors he was unhappy at NBC. His relations with top management there were described as 
•'frank and candid.'' 
As NBC's president, not only did he make big dough, he also had lavish stock options, a chauffered limousine, priority use of the company jet and three company supplied television sets. 
But one high-level network executive, noting Silverman had made successes out of all three major networks, best summed up the injustry's attitude this way: "He really wants to get even now." 
Reaction by the public television commu­nity to Silverman's hiring was mixed. "I don't think we'll have to stop talking about the important issues," chuckled a 
spokesman  for  "Washington  Week  in  
Review."  
"It  could  mean  the  end  of  the  dull  

documentary as we know it," said a worried executive at New York public TV station WNET. 
I 

"Hard to tell," said a source at Boston's WGBH. "For example, can we still buy stuff from the BBC, old chap?" 
"It's like a shot in the arm," said a happy official at KCET in Los Angeles. "We've just hired Kate Jackson to host 'Hollywood Television Theater."' 
"I can't talk now, somebody from People magazine is here," muttered Dick Cavett, the PBS talk show star. 
Whatever the reaction, every one agreed Silverman now has an almost impossible task-to raise public TV, which now barely disturbs a Nielsen meter, to No. 1 in the ratings. 
Said one expert: "You've got to realize that only a handful of people sleep through 'Masterpiece Theater' each week. But literally millions do that with • Happy Days.' 
"He's got to turn that ratio around and I don't envy him." Those who deny this is the news of the future, 1981, probably are in the pay of NBC, which Silverman definitely will join next June. 
by marian ulicny 
the final meeting with several anthro­pologists, John andPenny Van Esterik,and Irwin and Gloria Press. (Mrs. Press is a former social worker in Chicago.) We came to the conclusion that the Plunge added depth to our social conscience which can be applied to any field, from journalism to medicine. "What counts is to follow a good thing, no matter what you choose to go into," Mrs. Press emphasized. Wherever it leads its participants, Urban Plunge is, indeed, such a step toward dealing with the changeable reality of social injustice. 
Friday, February 3, 1978

the observer 
Lit Festival speakers feature Seeger, Albee 
[continued from page 1) wilderness who believed that World War II was still in progress. Pete Seeger, well known folk singer and guitarist, will be feat­ured on Thursday night, Feb. 16. Seeger, composer of "Where Have All the Flowers Gone?", will recite and sing several of his works. Seeger will appear in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. On Friday at 4:1S p.m., Ann Beattie will appear in the Library Auditorium. Beattie is a novelist and a short story writer who is published frequently in the New Yorker. Beattie is credited with a nov'el entitled Chilly Scenes of Winter, and has written a book called Distortions, which is a collection of short stories. Appearing on Friday night will be Howard Nemerov, a poet and 
Parents weekend plans set 
Debbie Roberts, sophomore class president at St. Mary's, has designated March 3-5 as this year's ~oohomore Parents Weekend. 
Friday night activities include the traditional Talent Show, consis­ting of short skits performed by the students, which will be followed by a wine and cheese party. The theme for the Talent show is "What happens to the Class of '80." 
An academic open house is planned for Saturday afternoon to give parents and professors the opportunity to meet and talk wi~" one another. Parents and studenls will meet with College President John M. Duggan and Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice in an informal gathering on Saturday in Stapleton Lounge. That evening, a banquet and formal will be held at the Century Center in South Bend. 
The weekend's activities will end on Sunday with a Mass and brunch. 
Letters containing more informa­tion will be sent out next week to all parents of sophomores. More de­
finite information pertaining to time and place of activities will also be available at a later date. 
critic who is currently teaching at 
Washin&ton University in St. 
Louis. Nemerov will be presented 
at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditor­
ium. · 
Jerry DeFuccio, associate editor of Mad magazine, will be pre­sented on Saturday, Feb. 18. DeFuccio will talk about contemp­ory humor and how it has devel­oped. DeFuccio may also discuss the success behind Mad magazine, explaining how satire has played such an important role in American humor. DeFuccio will make bis appearance at 3:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Closing out the activities for the festival will be Harlan Ellison. Ellison is a prominent fantasist who has won many Hugo and Nebula awards given to science fiction writers. Ellison will be featured on Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Washing­ton Hall. 
In addition to the appearances directed toward the Notre Dame community, most of these literary figures will be appearing in various composition and literature classes directed toward the freshman stu­dents. 
According to Jake Morrissey, a member of the Festival Committee, the activities for the festival have gone well thus far. "This year we've been fortunate since guests have responded quickly, which enables us to order some of their works ahead of time," he said. "The Notre Dame Sophomore Lit­erary Festival has a highly re­spected name, and it gives a good writer a chance to read his works to an alert audience." 
Water instructor course to begin 
An organizational meeting for those interested in the water safety instructor course will be held at 
9:30 a.m. tomorrow at the Rockne pool. The course is designed to train individuals to teach the Red Cross Swimming and Life Saving courses. 
The time, length of course, and other details will be explained at the meeting. 

II yoa'we got lOIII 
apare ti•.in the waning, the Nazz lllfNII YOU! 
* No Eqerleaee Neeeaary * .,teaeh yoa an .... oar ............
.w.. Nm pizza•• .. . 
Meeting 6:30 p11 this FRID~ Feh 3 fill NAZZ Lafortune Base•nt ( mandatory fer retarning staff ) 

Anyone interested in any aspect of the ·observer is invited to drop by the office for Open House, Tuesday night from 9-midnight 
lnt'l Students 
sponsor show 
on Austria 
The International Students will sponsor a slide show presentation on Austria next Monday in the International Students Lounge. Martin Neughter and Beth Klein will present the show, which is free and open to the public. 
The ultimate in sight and sound 
with leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Orchestra 
TOCCATA & FUGUE IN D MINOR~HE NUTCRACKER SUITE 
Johann S.bastion Bach~ Jil' Piotr llich Tchaioovoky 
r:nRITE OF SPRING . . THE PASTORAl SYMPHONY
rr;;} 

Igor Sravinoky . Ludwig von Beethoven 
DANCE OF THE HOURS~ NIGKT ON BAlD. MOUNTAIN 

~:u::::rAPPRENll:~~::: MAR~ 
~ Franz Schubert 

nd track available at River City Records U.S. 31 No. 
this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 
EARLY 
AND LATE SHOWS TONITE 
AT 5:45-8:1D-10:30 
SAT. SUN 
/:00-3:20 
5:45-8:10 
LATE SHOW AT 
10:30 P.M. 

WINNER OF FOUR GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS!
FORUM II  TONITE  
RINFO. DIAL 277-1522 HELD OVER  tiiPi~ild  7:15-9:40 SAT.&SUN. 1:45-4:15  
A NEIL SIMON HIT  7:15-9:40  

fmft55(R K/55/NGCR, OL I /.II&INBIJRG(;f< fiERF;'s J.I&Y, MJ, NO, IT's 8ARN&Y.. ONLY FAIR.! ~ L.&THIM GIVE; HIS SIP&! 

\ \ 
7HANI< 'rOt), MR. PB?KJN5. rM GM7ERJL 70 RNAUY 
711& FRI£N[)5

HAVE .4 CH/INCE 70 PUT 
OF&XXON

711& OINNER. ANO !TS 
SCOeYUJ45

SPONSOR IN 7H& PRO­
RJ(JN[)t£) IN..

PE!R. PERSPecTIVE•• 
/

/ 
Friday, February 3, 1978 
the observer 
9
0 0 

0 z Mediators nearing agreement 
m 
CJ) 

ro over mine workers' contrac·t
c 
WASHINGTON [AP]-United
~ 
Mine Workers (UMW) President Arnold Miller summoned his un­ion's bargaining council to Wash­ington yesterday as negotiators neared agreement on contract terms which could end the 59 day old coal strike. 
But as the talks continued, fresh violence was reported in the coal fields and new steps were an­nounced to deal with the effect that dwindling coal supplies are having on electrical capacity. 
Negotiators of the UMW and the Bituminous Coal Operators Assoc­iation met through the day to narrow their differences on wages and other economic issues and were "very close" to agreement, sources said. 
Miller scheduled a morning meeting of the union's bargaining council for today, which must approve any contract before a ratification vote can be taken by the rank and file. 
"I would say they've reached a tentative agreement," said John Guzek, president of the UMW' s District 6 in Northwest West Vir­ginia and Eastern Ohio. But he added that Miller's call could be an indication that union bargainers had reached "a point where they can't bargain any further and they are looking for guidance." 

The council rejected one pro­posed contract in 1974 before accepting a second pact. 
The new violence was in Western Pennsylvania, where about 80 pic­kets identified by police as UMW members ripped out telephones overtuned a pickup truck and smashed other equipment at the Dixonville Mining Co. in Indiana County. 
Up to 600 pickets rallied at C & K Coal Co.'s Rimersburg coal dump­ing apparatus in Clarion County Wednesday night, causing an es· timated $30,000 damage. 
Three state troopers sustained minor injuries in a confrontation with pickets armed with clubs, tire irons and pick axes. 
No arrests were reported in 

And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Marketing, Engineering or Computer Science. 
We will be interviewing at 
University of Notre Dame on February 7, 1978 
To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: I.C. Pfeiffer, Corporate College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, IL 60611. 
----_...,_ 
===-=~=® 
An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer 

either incident, but two Indiana County men were arrested on a college campus for allegedly trying to set fire to the school's coal stockpiles. 
Meanwhile, Monongahela Power Co., which serves 258,000 cust­omers in West Virginia and ad­ditional customers in Ohio, asked West Virginia Gov. Jay Rockefeller to issue an order limiting electricity use. 
The utility said! its coal stockpile will stand at 30 days next Monday and added it will take three weeks for new supplies to arrive after production resumes. 
-Also, Conrail announced in New York that the strike will force an immediate cutback in power use by trains on the New Haven division rail line. Limits placed on train speed on the run will result in delays of up to 30 minutes,· officials said. 
Power companies serving Mary­land, Ohio, Kentucky, Virginia and West Virginia have asked cust­omers to cut back on electricity use. 
Century Center offers tours 
A daily tour of Century Center is now being offered. Monday through Friday a volunteer tour guide will be at the Information Booth at 1:30 to give anyone visiting the Center a tour of the building. On Saturdays and Sun­days four guides will be giving tours between 1 and 3 p.m. with a tour leaving every 15 minutes. 
Groups of more than 10 persons may schedule a tour through the Center office. Two weeks notice is needed to schedule guides. Any­one interested in receiving a tour for their club or organiza.:on may contact Ginna Anderson at 284-9711. 
The tour in designed to give a genetal introduction of the build­ing, highlighting each of the facil­ities, such as the Convention Center, the Performing Arts Center which houses the Bendix Theatre, the central courtyard, the Great Hall, Discovery HalfMuseum and the Art Center. 
Booze bonanza 
!Ontinued from page 3] distributors had a difficult time remaining stocked, since delivery trucks were limited by the snow. Most stores stated they were still having some trouble keeping sup­plied, as sales remain high in the wake of the storm. Several managers expressed that this situa-~ tion would improve as the weather slackened and transportation routes cleared. 
Portrait sign-ups rescheduled 
Juniors who have not yet made appointments for senior portraits, or whose appointments were can­celled because. of the blizzard, should call 3557 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. next Monday through Friday to schedule an appointment. 

.... 
... 
Friday, February 3, 1978

10 the observer 
Seminars on Christian life to begin 
A series of seminars dealing with The Life in the Spirit Seminars, her own life. O'Connor said there pants. Christian life in the Holy Spirit will which will be directed by Tom will be group discussion and ques­. The seminars are open to anyone begin next Tuesday, according to Bonaiuto, are designed to show tion and answer periods, and mterested. Those who would like Fr. Edward O'Connor. The sem­Christians how the Holy Spirit can attention will be given to the faith to attend, or who have any ques­inars will continue for seven conse­bring fulfillment to their lives. and conviction needed to live a life tions regarding the series, should cutive weeks, and will be held Each program will consist of a in the spirit. Each session will contact Mary Champion at #1618 or every Tuesday from 6:30 to 7:30 person giving personal witness to conclude with group prayer for the Emily Godinez at #6881. 
p.m. in the Badin Hall chapel. how the Holy Spirit enriched his or fulfillment of individual partici­



-,.... 
From a country as clean and un­spoiled as Canada, you'd expect a very special taste. Fresh from North America's most experienced brewery, Molson has been making friends on both sides of the border since 1786. 
Ale, spirited Canadian Beer, or smooth Golden. Or all three. 
Brought to you proudly by MartJI!t lmporl.mM Co , Inc, Grral Nt!c k, N. Y 
Friday, February 3, 1978 
the observer 11 

Soviets to break with Cambodia 
Moscow'[AP]-The Soviet Union relations. But Soviet diplomats had appears headed toward a fmal been hinting since early December break with Cambodia, the radical well before the border fighting Indochinese nation whose take­peaked that relations were headed over by the Communists in the 1975 downhill for a variety of other war was first applauded by the reasons as well. Kremlin. Since 1975, Cambodia has re­
Cambodia's border war With portedly spumed Soviet offers of Vietnam, a close Soviet ally, has economic aid, citing the Kremlin's hastened the deterioration in past recognition of the pro-Westem 
Pep rally to honor championship football team 
A rally, hononng the 1977 "I'd like to thank everyone thaf National Championship Notre has helped to organize this rally,'''i Dame football team, will be held head Coach Dan Devine remarked.' under the joint sponsorship of the "But especially, I'd like to thank south Bend -Mishawaka Area the students. They did a lot for us Chamber of Commerc, the St. this season and were behind us all Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club, the way." · the Quarterback Club and the Student Government this Sunday, February 5, at 4 p.m. in the ACC arena. Fair slated 
ABC-TV's "Wide World of Sports" plans to cover-portions of 
at Century Center

the event. ABC will briefly show the forming ofthe rally at 3:30p.m. 
The Century Center Industrialand then televise live cover­Fair, originally scheduled for Jan. 

age at 4 p.m. when the team and 6 and 7, will take place thiscoaches enter the arena for the weekend. The show will be openstart of the program. The entire free to the public from 10 a.m. to 4 event is scheduled to last until 5:35 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
p.m. 
"The show is open to manufac­During the course of the rally, turing firms in Michiana and many many of the championship trophies exhibitors are preparing specialwill be on display. Also, highlights displays for this event," statedfrom the entire season, including JoAnne Weiss and Jim Draskovits,the 38-10 Cotton Bowl victory over co-chairmen of the fair. In addition 

Texas, will be shown. 
to displays, some exhibitors are"I'd like to thank evervone that preparing working models and has helped to organize this rally..fj. 

demonstrations of their products. 

NOTICES 
Private room and bath available in return for planning and cooking evening meal for two. Laundry facilities provided. Telephone Dean 0'Meara at 288-6082. 
A:~yone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before Spring break. 
Accurate, fast typing Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 Hours 8 AM to 6 PM. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, papers typed. IBM selection II. Linda's Letters. 287-4971. 
Volunteers needed for Recyclinn pro­gram, 1-2 hours per week. Contact John Ryan 8701 or 6413. 
Typing Done. Reasonable rates. Call 8086 between 7-9 p.m. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-Q898 "When you want the best." 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT seminars begin Tues., Feb. 7th. For information call Mary 1618 or Emily 6881. 
Logan volunteers and Interested Stud­ents: Despite the Blizzard, Sat Rec. will be going again this Sat, Feb. 4, 1978, 9AM at Logan Center-one block south of the football stadium. If it happens to snow alot before Sat., give us a call first to find out if we ·are having Sat. rec. for sure. Call Jeanne Conboy 4391 or Art Koebel 287-7509. 
FOR RENT 
For rent next school year -two nice houses completely furnished just acouple of blocks from campus, good neighbor­hoods, one four bedroom and one six bedroom with fireplace. Call 277-3604. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost set of keys by ACC ice rink. honda key. Please call 277-Q222, 234-8279 or turn in to rink pro shop for Thelma. 

Found: A blace wallet behind Lyons Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed are an Indiana Driver's license, work ID and Library Card. Call to identify at 1715. 
Lost round 14K gold medal. size of quarter. has face of sun with a crack on medal. Also a goldltalian horn. Lost Thurs Jan. 26 morning between Fisher and Dining hall. SUBSTANTIAL RE, WARD. Call Mike 3010. 
Found: Silver wire-framed glasses out­side ACC before Maryland game. Call 1475. 
Lost: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Sat. nite. Special Xmas present -RE, WARD. Call Kevin 1655. 
Lost: Green and gold ski cap in cafeteria. Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
Found: one dog. Call 1580 or 3815 to identify. 
WANTED 
Wanted: 4 Marquette tickets. Call Jim at 1419. 
Wanted: One Marquette student ticket. Call Mike at 1424. 
'Wanted: 4 DePaul tickets. Call1153. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area after Wednesday. Call Vaii10B8. 
Need up to 2 peol1f'e to sublet N.D. Ave. Apt., now until May. Call Beth 6722. 
Wanted: weekend householder for local halfway house facility. Overnight stay required. Small salary, room and board, and excellent experience. Call 234-1049 for further information. 
I Need 2 G .A. or Student tickets to De Paul. Call Louis at 1207. 
Need 6 DePaul hoops tickets; not necessarily together. Tony 7781. 
Need students for short term, part time employment with the American Lung Association. Must have own transporta­
. tion. $2.65 hr. plus gas. 287-2321. 
Wanted: 2 Davidson B-Ball tix. Call Dave 8107. 
One. two or three female roommates needed for Campus VBiew Apartments. Call7060. 
Need 4G.A. tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 
Cambodian government of Lon Nol ousted by the Communist rebels. The Cambodian Communists never permitted the Soviets to open an embassy in Phnom Penh, the Cambodian capital, and pulled all their diplomats out of Moscow last summer. 
The Kremlin apparently remained hopeful the Cambodians would change their attitude. As late as last October, the Soviets sent a warm message congratulating the Cambodian leadership on its of­ficial formation of a Communist Party, and the Moscow political weeklyNew T"unespublished a long article praising Cambodia's eco­nomic progress. 
The state-controlled Soviet press has been silent on reports of massacres, plagues and famine in Cambodia. 
When the long-simmering Cam­bodian-Vietnamese border squab­ble escalated late last year, the Russian media began reprinting foreign reports accusing Cambodia of aggression and of receiving help form Communist China, Moscow's arch-enemy. 
The anti-Cambodia campaign in 
SMC 0-C booth needs dealers 
Anyone interested in dealing for the St. Mary's Senior Class Off Campus booth at Mardi Gras should contact Mary Rost at 5127 or Gretchen Obringer at 277-2748. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 B-Ball Davidson GA tix. Call John at 8209. 
I need 2 GA Marquette tickets real bad. George 1248. 
House Parent room and board &85/ wk. tax free: close to campus; flexible hrs. 232-4805. 
Need 2 Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette tix. Will pay reasonable sum of $. Call 1612. 
Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your price. Call Russ at 8772. 
Need several Marquette tickets. Call Brian at 272-5843. 
Need up to four GA tickets for any home basketball game. Preferably DePaul. Call Pat 1068. 
Need ride to Columbus Ohio Feb. 10. Call Molly 1312. 
Wanted: 2 GA or Student Davidson BB tickets. ,Call 256-1341. 
FOR SALE 
Pair Fisher two-way speakers. Good condition. Call Drew 1487. 
For Sale: 2 GA tix for NC State and Holy Cross. Call 1159. 
BSR turntable w/ walnut basde, dust cover. Call 7077. 
For Sale: BIC 981 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. 
Full color Cotton Bowl picture Pictures now available. Call 8982. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PICT, URES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
For Sale: 19.6 Coachman Travel trailer; like-new condition; sleeps 6; self-contain­ed. $3300.00. Call after 6 PM. 272-8308. 
For Sale: Women's size ·8 Dachstein Hiking boots-brand new-reduced price. Call 679-4496. 
PERSONALS 
Kevin, Desde lima "Feliz cumpleanos!" un abrazo fuerte. 
mmtmc and the cassette tape? 

the Soviet press increased in tempo with publication last wee1: of a photo story in the Communist Youth League newspaper accusing Cambodia of attacking "peaceful Vietnamese towns and cities,'' and a battlefield report carried by the official Soviet news agency Tass and published in Tuesday's editions of Pravda. 
The Tass report in the Communist Party daily accused Cambodia of persecuting citizens of Vietnamese 
origin  and  said  Vietnam  was  
giving a "resolute rebuff''  to the  
Cambodian army.  

"Ordinary people here in Viet­nam" the article said, "are won­dering why the current rulers of Cambodia are forcing their soldiers to carry out armed attacks on the Vietnamese countryside ...'' 
The border war between the one­time Communist allies has roots in territorial claims that predate French colonial rule in Indochina. 

Developments in the Soviet·Cam­bodian situation form the larger picture of Soviet-Chinese rivalry. The Kremlin denied a claim Jan. 8 by President Jimmy Carter's nat­ional adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, that the border war was a Soviet-Chinese battle by proxy. But the Soviet press has high­lighted foreign reports that the Cambodians are using Chinese arms. 
The Soviets openly support Viet­nam's call for immediate negotia­tions on a cease-fire. Cambodia says says invading Vietnamese troops must first leave Cambodian soil before it will consider talks on a truce. 
• 


Wanted:One female Groundhog to keep warm rest of winter. If interested see Doc, North Dining Hall between 1-1:30. 
Nite Crew. 

Cracker Jack, 
From 2to 22... It's hard to believe too! Continue to give and smile as you always do. Happy 22nd ... 
All my love, Peanut Twister. 

Creepo Sue, Celebrate me home. 
Desperately Need Marquette tickets call Dannie -SMC 5330. 
Need 4 GA DePaul tix. Call Margie ­SMC 5336. 
Need 4 GA Marquette tix. Call Mary ­SMC 5781. 
Alas John Gray, You're 21 today. Not gone, but certainly forgotten. 
SCHOLASTIC positions now oped writ­ing/production staffs. Writers meeting 7:oopm Sun. Feb 5. Production workshop 6:30pm Mon Feb 6. BE THERE! 
Judo Club will be meeting Monday's, 6:30-8:00, ACC wrestling pit, starting Feb. 13. Trainer sessions (5 classes) starts Feb. 1. Call Curt 8711 for more info. 
To girls with lips and slender hips: Use them on Tom Quinn Sat. for his 21st or call1166. 
'Section 1"B FJrley has voted Kelly Tripucka the "Macho Athlete of the Month." Congrats, Kelly! 
Haircuts cheap. Styles, trims. SMC 4530 Betsy. 
Need 4 GA tix for Marquette SMC 4530. Betsy. 
Brandy, Happy Birthday! Go for the max! Dillon D-Faces 
Angel #1. C'mon Kay Mangelsdorf, Give the men of 
N.D. another chance; Not all of us are 
bad. Angelf2 
Dear John, At least one girl will remember your 21st B-Day. 
Guess who? 

Brandy, Your B-Day must be really important or we wouldn 'tr have remembered it. Your wild and crazy roommates. 
Bran-Buns, ND will be weak from .suckin' on your B-Day kisses. 
Brickhouseii-------­Happy Birthday Brandy, You really register with us. 
Shop-Rite gang 

Kimmer, A CHORUS LINE needs your talent. Auditions Feb. 4 3 pm in room 321 HC. Are you ready? 
"Trick-or-treat" 

Denise. I know there is only one microphone per singer, but I keep forgetting. Here's to your first personal! Love, 
Poke. 

Bidita, Forget your troubles (and your illnesses) C'mon get happy. Gonna chase all your cares away... Please get well soon-we miss you. Love, 
Debbie 

To James Wilton Daly, An old man at 22 you may be But don't expect Golden to have sym­pahty; With your locomotive breath as a fuller brush man, From advanced poetry you soon wi II be banned; A gaping void there will then be When you pass out drinking Falls City; . And remember, doctor, what Mr. Christ­ian states, "Avoid those closets with your dates!" So across tampus your name wi II be smeared as the funniest president of the hall of Howeird! Happy Birthday Jimmy! Love and Kisses, 
M. B. L. R. 
P.S. We WILL demand those birthday kisses! 

Friday, February 3, 1978

12 the observer 
Wrestlers host Catholic Tourney 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
D spite having turned out many fin· wrestlers over the years and pc ,ing a 7-3 record this season, th Notre Dame wrestling team has nev ·r ~cupied the spotlight of Iris!. sports. Bob Golic's name is comnonplace around the ND com­mun· .y, but how many people have hear )f Pat McKillen, Dave DiSab­ato, t ieorge Gedney, Mike Padden, or Rl b Dreger? 
Th' .s weekend things will change, however, when Notre Dame hosts the National Catholic Invitational Wrestling Tournament at the ACC Fieldhouse. Teams from the east and midwest will be represented and will provide excellent comp­etition that will last all day. 
Notre Dame has enjoyed success
• 
in the National Catholic Tourn-­ament over the eight years it has been held. Although they have never won the tourney. the Irish have had 15 champions and have failed to win the heavyweight division only once. Defending champion John Carroll will once again be the favorite for the ournament but that could very well ~hange this year. Notre Dame is 1ielding its strongest team this season and Irish Head Coach Ray Sepeta thinks his team has a 
College Cage 
Wolverines upset MSU 
EAST LANSING* MICH. AP Reserve guard Mark Lozier sank a 29 foot jump shot at the buzzer Thursday night to give Michigan a comeback 65-63 victory over intrastate rival Michigan State. 
It was the second straight loss for the seventh-ranked Spartans, who had owned a 7-0 league record and first place before losing at Indiana on Monday and then falling to the Wolverines after having led virtually the entire secon~ half. Michigan kept its hopes alive for a second straight title by improving to a 6-3 record in the Big Ten. Overall, the olverincs are 11-6. The Spartans fell to 15-3 overall. 
Providence falls 

OLEAN* N.Y. [API -Nick Urzetta poured in 11 points while St. Bonaventure was opening a 10-point lead an All-America candidate Glenn hagan took charge when Providence pressed, as the bonnies put down the ninth-ranked Friars 72-64 Thursday night. 
Urzetta, who finished with a Bonnie high 18 points, helped his team widen the 31-27 halftime lead to 53-43. Greg Sanders and Tim Waterman scored 16 each for the streaking Bonnies who have won six straight and boast a 13-5 record. 
Providence's Bill Eason led all players with 19 points and 11 rebounds, but the Friars dropped their third straight contest an slipped to 16-4. 
Marquette rolls 

STATE COLLEGE* PA. AP-Center Jerome Whitehead scored 25 points to lead third-ranked marquette to a 73-60 college basketball victory Thursday night over Penn State. 
Jeff Miller, Penn State's 6-foot-2 guard, led all scorers with 28 points. He had 18 of them in the first half, which ended with the Nittany Lions leading 34-33. 
... 
But marquette, which climbed to 16-2, took the lead for good at 49-48 with just over 10 minutes remaining in the game on a baseline, jump shot by guard Butch Lee, who finished with 21 points. 
Gophers triumph 
MINNEAPOLIS AP-Mychal Thompson, Kevin McHale andJames Jacksoncombined for 58 points as Minnesota upended Iowa 82-71 Thursday night and moved within one game of Big Ten basketball co-leaders Michigan State and Purdue. 
Thompson, the conference scoring leader, poured in 23 points to spark the Gopher~ Minnesota, 6-3 in the conference, hit 22 of 25 shots from the field in the second half to break open the contest after leading only 32-31 at intermission. 
definite.chance of taking top hon­ors. 
"I told the team that if we are ever going to shoot for the champ­ionship, this is the year. We are as strong as we'll ever be, and after this season we will lose three seniors who are very important to us," noted Sepeta, who was voted National Catholic Coach of the Year for the second consecutive time last season. 
Marquette, St. John's of Min­nesota, King's College, Scranton, St. Joseph's of Rensselaer, Ind., St. John Fisher, St. Mary's (no, not the one across U.S. 31 but the one two states over in Minnesota), Lewis University, Dayton, Loras College, Seton Hall, and Xavier round out the tournament field. 
The National Catholic Tourn­ament was founded in 1970 by coach Tony DeCarlo of John Carroll University. It was held at Jvhn Carroll in Cleveland, Ohio, for the first five years and St. John's in Minnesota the following two sea­sons. King's College in Penn­sylvania was last year's site and this season the tournament moves to Notre Dame. 
"I have been trying to promote wrestling ever since I came to John Carroll 14 years ago, and I thought it would be a good idea to get the Catholic schools involved in a nat­


' 


.." 
Sophomore Dave DiSabato is one of the three Notre Dame wrestlers who will be defending his championship on Saturday. 
ional tournament of s-ome kind," ptomote the sport. DeCarlo adds commented DeCarlo, who was that the fact that it is being held at voted National Catholic Coach of Notre Dame helps out. the Year from 1973 to 1975. ''This tournament gives us an 
"I had been involved in starting excellent opportunity to highlight the Ohio Catholic High School Catholic schools across the country Invitational Tournament and that and the more publicity it receives gave me the idea to start one on the the more teams we can attract. collegiate level. The only drawback Having it at Notre Dame helps out to holding it on the college level is in that respect and might be an the cost for some teams to travel incentive for more teams to partic­and participate.'' ipate in the future." 
The National Catholic Invita­Pat McKillen (150), Dave DiSa­tional is not only an excellent bato (126), and Bob Golic (HWT) opportunity for the wrestlers to are all defending champions in the compete against people they would tournament. All three, in fact, otherwise not be able to wrestle have never failed to capture the against but also a fine way to tournament's top honors. McKil-
Ara hitchhiked to fame 
AP -Ara Paraseghian mused When Hayes moved on to Ohio that had he not hitchhiked to State, John Brickles, athletic Oxford in 1946, "I might have been director wanted to name Parsegh­
an auto dealer." ian head coach. But Parseghian's "I'm a today and tomorrow guy. age, 27, was a stumbling block with I don't dwell on the past. History is 
the alumni. for historians. But I often think of "John thought I was capable and hitchhiking from Cincinnati to Ox­wanted me, but to appease some ford in 1946," said the graying 
people he told me that I'd have the former football coach at Miami of 
title of coach but that he really Ohio, Northwestern and Notre would make all the coaching de­Dame. 
cisions. I told him I was going to be Parseghian, in town to help 
named coach and coach the team or get somebody else. He agreed,"Miami, his alma mater, with a said Parseghian.
fund-drive, recalled his start in collegiate sports. 
"I played for Paul Brown at Great Lakes Navy during world 
Sailing Club elects 
War II and I wanted to see a relative who was a student at Miami,'' the Akron, Ohio native recalled. 
1978 officers 
-.. 1 got off a train in Cincinnati On Saturday, January 28, mem­and I hitchhiked to Oxford. When I bers of the Notre Dame sailing club saw the campus, I said, 'This is f<>ught the blizzard conditions towhere I am going to college.' " celebrate the elections of the new"Really, I was never recruited. 
officers and present awards for theSid Gillman was the football coach. 
1977 season. Chosen for the 1978Blue Foster coached basketball, season were Don Condit, commo­which I liked, and I liked baseball. 
dore; Martha Boyle, vice commo­Sid was mad because I played dore; Sue Smiggen, secretary; Pat baseball when he thought I should C. Smith, treasurer; Mark Chock,
be out for spring football which for activities coordinator; Phil him was in December." Reynolds, rear commodore; and 
Parseghian, who played end, Jay Kiley as race team captain. went to Brown's Cleveland team Walt Rogers was presented the after graduation but returned to Donahue Cup for his icy victory Miami as an assistant coach under over all other first year members in Woody Hayes. mid-december. Crew of the Year wa~ awarded to Aleka Unkovskoy while past commodore, Bill Kostoff received most improved sailor. 
The Notre Dame sailing team will begin their upcoming season this weekend with the Windjammer Regatta and Mardi Gras at the University of Tulane in New Orleans. The midwest circuit will begin in mid-March on St. Joseph's Lake where the Notre Dame sailing club will host the annual freshman icebreaker. All first year club members are invited to compete with other first year midwest sailors. 
len is a senior and will be going for 
his fourth consecutive title while 
DiSabato won it last year as a 
freshman. Golic has won it two 
years straight and the junior from 
Cleveland will be making his first 
appearance on the mats for the 
Irish this season on Sunday. 
"Having Bob back competing for us will of course be a big help. He is an outstanding wrestler and will definitely add more strength to our lineup," noted Sepeta. 
McKillen has been having an outstanding season and is Notre Dame's all-time winningest grap­pler, a record he broke at the start of the season. DiSabato is coming off an eye injury but should be in good shape for Sunday's tourn­ament. 
Junior George Gedney will be competing at 118 for Notre Dame while John Torres will occpuy the 134 pound slot. Chris Favo will go at 142 and Mike Padden will try to win the 177 pound division. Joe Kurletta will represent the Irish at 190 but the 167 pound slot is questionable. Team members have been battling the flu, as have many Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents. Mike Wilda or Bill Moore will go 167. 
"The flu has been bothering a few wrestlers but hopefully we'll stay healthy enough to enter as strong a lineup as we can," commented Sepeta. 
''This is the first time Notre Dame has ever held a wrestling tournament of this cal­iber so naturally I am very pleased and excited about it," continued the third year coach. "I am hoping that we will get good support from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's for it.'' 
The National Catholic Tourn­ament will be held in the ACC ice arena (don't worry, the temper­ature will be raised so winter clothing inside will not be neces­sary). The preliminary rounds will start at 11:00 a.m. The consolation finals will begin at 7:00 p.m. while the finals will be held at 8:00 p.m. All Notre Dame and St. Marv's students who present an I.D. card will not have to pay the one dollar admission fee. 
Parseghian now has interests in insurance and broadcasting and says he has no desire to return to the college coaching ranks. He said he has also turned down professional offers but added that he is evaluating his situation on a year-by-year basis. 
He laughed, saying he wasn't interested in the present opening at Miami. 
The school is expected to name a new coach Friday to replace Dick Crum, who has signed with the University of North Carolina. 

l_ 







