.' ' RocheMta, with reservations -p, 8 


·.. ,, :"_"II '·'i, 'JO 
· m.!. · · P :_ . . '" r, """Papt·f :-t rvmJ. nutrc· d:.l.me and saim mar{"' FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1979 
!j;.QIW1~ ..:;........ 
•. ~·:.~~--··•· ·zrP.'-..--.aili•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••iillill 
Chinese 'smash'into Viet defense 

Sowder succumbs to meningitis 
· Notre Dame senior Andrew 
Sowder, 21, died at 9:45 a.m. 
yesterday in the intensive care 

unit of Sc Joseph's Hospital. Sowder, a Cavanaugh resident, fell into a coma Sunday after contracting meningococcus ·meni~gitis, and never regained 
consciOusness. 
Sowder, a finance major, 
served as Cavanaugh Hall presi­
dent last year, and ran freshman 
orientation in that hall each year. 
He played the falto in varsity and 
marching band, .. and was a 
member of the brass ensemble. 
He also worked for Ombudsman 
and was active in interhall 
athletics. 
Sowder is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. jerry Madison Sowder of Idalou, 'rex.; and older brother Lt. James Sowder a West Point graduate presently stationed at Fort Hood, Tex.; twin brothers Bob and Bill, students at Texas A & M in College Station, Tex.; a sister Mary, a student at Trinity College in San Antonio, Tex.; and a younger brother Tim, presently a freshman at Idalou High School. 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh celebrated a memorial mass for Sowder at 10 a.m.this morning in Sacred Heart Church. Fr. David Fedor, assistant rector of Cavanaugh, delivered the homily,· and the brass ensemble of which Sowder 

Gathered before a likeness of Buddha these young num appear as ifthey have come to worship had. been a member, provided this great god ofsnow. [Photo by Tracy jan~ McAulzffe] ffiUSlC. --===========;:.:::::[:.:....continue.l o_~--p_ag~~ 

Moody, Walsh cotntnentonSEAsiasituation 
by Ray McGrath Vietnam's recent involvement in 
Senior StaffReporter toppling Pol Pot's regime in Cambodia, according to two Notre Dame faculty members. 
The volatile situation in South­Peter Moody, associate profes­
east Asia has its roots in prob­sor of Government and Internat­
lems which started before ional Relations, noted that 
Snowball throwing incident results in conJ--iderable damage to Dillon Hall 
by]ohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
Over 20 windows were broken and at least one student was injured last night in a snowball throwing incident in the vicinity of Dillon Hall. 
•'We had considerable dag~age done to the front side of the hall .. ' • reported a member of the Dillon Hall staff, who asked to remain unidentified. "We had at least 25 windows broken." 
The same official also reported that one student was injured by flying glass. 
Officials at Notre Dame Security initially refused to comment on the incident, but Director of SecurityJoe Wall, contacted at his home last night, acknowledged that he was aware of the incident, and said the situation is under investigation. 
A resident of Dillon Hall reported that the incident began at approximately 7 p.m. and continued "for a good lialf-hour." 
Some student witnesses, who also asked to remain anonymous, estimated the size of the gowp 
responsible for the "attack" at over 100. There were confirmed reports that many of the students taking part in the assault came from Flanner and Grace Halls. One student reported that after dinner there was a large snowfight between the two high-rise dorms. ''Then someone said," 'Hey wouldn't it be a great idea to go get Dillon!'' a Grace resident recalled. A Dillon student observed "I got the impression that they were from the North Quad." 
"I don't think it was malicious," the student said, admitting however, "Some of the snowballs were really hard-packed and a couple of guys got kicked in the head." 
According to the same Dillon resident, at one point in the "battle," several Dillon residents removed a ftre hose from its storage place in a Dillon corridor and attempted to direct a high-pressure stream of water at the attackers through the front door. 
"I guess it didn't work very good, though, because those guys got wasted,'' he added. 

<;EM.,c _.,>'. ·.. ~·~·<.. •~~~~:~.)~ ;~;?~~ ~~ [i,~,,::c;~~ 
Vietnam "had been pushing for expansion for centuries" prior to the French colonial settlements, which for years acted to create a buffer zone between Vietnam and its neighbors. 
The Vietnam War, involving the United States, was also only a deferment of the inevitable rise in recurring international ten­sions in that area, according to Moody. 
Russia became involved in the Sino-Vietnamese antipathy dur­ing the conflict with the United States, Moody said. Communist Vietman needed support in the form of advanced was machinery and of the two great Con1munist powers, only the Soviet Union could fill the .demand, he claimed. 
This led to further dependance on the Soviets, and finally to the signing of a mutual support treaty last November. MOOdy sees present Vietnam as a serru­colorual extention of Russia. 
Regarding Vietnam's aid in toppling the Chinese backed Cambodian regime, Moody tied it in to Vietnam's jealousy of the Chinese and their influence. 
China's invasion of Vietnam, Moody suggested, may be aimed at several objectives. One object­ive is retribution for the 

Cambodian fall. And "China 
may want to set up their own 
stooges in Hanoi m place of 
Russian stooges," he stated. 
Moody also pointed out that 
America's playmg the so-called 
'China Card' has allowed China 
to "do these things under our 
shield." "I suspect," Moody 
said, "that Carter is .horrified by 
this. The United States is in an 
awkward situation.'' 
On the other hand, Moody sees 
the Soviet Union in an even more 
uncomfortable position. "If the 
Vietnamese regime is in trouble, 
Russia will have to stand by and 
look foolish, or get heavily in­
volved. It probably doesn't want 
to do either," Moody said. 
He concluded that the present 
conflict will probably not es­
calate into major war between 
China and Russia, but that this 
possibility is being flirted with. 
Nevertheless, Moody sees 
Amencan "relations with the 
Soviet Union turning more and 
more sour." 
Professor Brian Walsh, dir­
ector or the Computing Center, 
travelled throughout Southeast 
Asia last summer. 
He brought back firsthand accounts of how the people there .view Sino-Vietnamese tensions. 
(Continuedfrom page 4] 

~--~ -------------------~~ ~--------~-~------­


News in brief 
Indiana House passes limited smoking ban 
INDIANAPOliS (AP) -~. noking would be prohibited in the public areas of state-owned buildings, under a bill approved yesterday in the Indiana House and sent to the Senate. Rep. RobenJ. DuComb, R-Granger, in his seventh year as sponsor of the smoking ban, said a law is necessary for health reasons and to educate youngsters on the dangers of the practice. 
'Birthday Party ' candidates win student election 
COLUMBIA,Mo. (.AP) -Roben Siegel and Garth Bare campaigned for the University of Missouri's student government wearing straitjackets and clown suits and promising to bring naval battles to the football stadium. And they won. Siegel, a senior sociology major, was elected president and Bare, a sophomore engineenng student, was elected vice president. Their ''Birthday Party'' took 47 percent of the vote Wednesday in the thre-way race. During thetr campaign, Siegel and Bare promised to turn the campus' central quadrangle into an ice-skating rink and said they would flood the football stadium and hold mock naval battles there. 
Weather 
Flash flood watch today with occasional showers and thunderstorms. Highs today in the low and mid 40s. A 70 percent chance of a few lingering showers this afternoon with te~peraf1:1res beginning to fall by evening. Cloudy and ~older to~ght With a 40 percent chance of snow. Lows dropping to the rrud and upper 20s. Mostly cloudy and cold tomorrow with highs in the low 30s. 
Friday, February 23, 1979 
4:30 pm--COILOQUIM, ''boundary ofholomorphic functions of weakly pseudoconvex domains,·: prof. david caplin, u. of chicago, 226 MA1H BLDG. 
5:15pm--MASS AND DINNER., at the BUlLA SHED 
6:30pm--SHOW, regina hall variety show, UTilE 1HEA1RE SMC 
7 & 10 pm--FILM, "patton," CARROlL HAIL SMC $1 
8 pm--PLAY, "one flew over the cuckoo's nest," WASHING­
TON HAIL$1 
8:30-1:30 am--FILM, "close encounters of the third kind," ENGR. AUD. $1 (continuous showing) 
Saturday, February 24, 1979 
10 am--FENCING, ACC. 
1 pro--SYMPOSIUM, sociology research symposium and discussion, LAFORTUNE 
1 pm--WRESTUNG, midwest regionals at nd, ACC. 
2 pro--SWIMMING, nd vs. illinois state, ROCKNE POOL 
7 pm--FILM, "patton," CARROlL HAIL SMC $1 
7 pm--FILM, "sang .si~ter," UB. AUD., sponsored. by the chinese student assoctatton 
7 & 10 pm--FILM, "patton," CARROll HAIL SMC $1 
8 pro--BASKETBAlL, nd vs. Iasalle, ACC. 
2 prn-2 am--FILM, ''close encounters of the third kind,'' ENGR. AUD. (continuous showing) 
Sunday, February 25, 1979 
1 prn--WRESTLING, midwest regionals at nd, ACC. 
2 pm--CHESS MATCH, nd chess team vs. south bend chess club, LAFORTUNE RATIISKEil..AR 
6:45 pro--MEETING, cila general meeting, LAFORTUNE BAlLROOM 

7 pro--BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, rev, theodore hesburgh talks at opening event, UB. AUD. 
8 pro--CONCERT, srnc women's choir, UTilE THEATRE SMC 
Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 2 
Grand Jury indicts N&W 

Train kills Hoosier tnan in car 
MUNCIE, Ind. [.t'if'f -For the criminal prosecution. Since no second time in six months, a individuals were named in either transponation giant has been indictment, the maximum penal­indicted on a criminal charge ty for reckless homiCide -a felony stemming from a fatal automo­-would be a $10,000 fme. bile accident. However, Delaware County 
A Delaware County grand jury Prosecutor Michael Alexander charged Norfolk & Western Rail­said Thursdays that the N&W way Co. on Wednesday with indictment wasn't patterned after reckless homicide in the death of the Ford case, which has yet to a Muncie man whose car was hit come to trial. by a train at an ungqarded ''They're two different types of railroad crossing. cases," he said. "Ours is based 
on acts done by cotporate ern-
Last September, .an Elkhart ployees. Theirs is based on County grand /. ury mvoked the safery engineering and products same Indiana aw lifld charged )iabiltty theory." Ford Motor Co. With reckless In the Pinto case the Elkhan homicide in the de~ths of three grand jury said th~t Ford reck­teen-age women m a fiery, lessly designed the Pinto fuel rear-end Pinto automobile acci-tanks. The car was among 1.5 
dent. Both cases were brought under 
a 1977 state law that makes a corporation as liable as a person 
FThe Observer 
Night Editor: FrankL. Kebe,
Jr. 
Asst. Night Editors: jim Rudd, Patsy Campbell Copy Readers: Phil Cackely, 
] ohn McGrath  
Layout  Staff:  lynn  Tyler,  
Chris johns.  
Editorial  Layout:  Greg  
Hedges  

Features Layout: Mr. Bill Typists: Tom, Mr. Bill, Pete, lisa, Katie, Bill 
Early Morning Typist: Rosie 
Day Editor: Keith Melaragno 
Ad Layout: Chns Slatt, Sue johnston Photo~~pher: Tracy jane McA.ulijje 
The Observer JUSPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex· cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by . the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year J$10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. · 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


audio 
AUDIO SPECIALISTS, 401 N. MICHIGAN, SOUlli BEND, IN. 46601. PHONE: 234-5001. 
11 
~~~r~~e 1rqurd crystal (LCD) record-level meters. wrthauto s 0 N""Yc; ~liJJJI2) rr((5'
and manual peak-hold swrtchrng lor extremely accurate 
c ___.. 
peak srgnal monrtonng and record level setting , 
• 
Automatrc Musrc Sensor for automatrc playback of any one . 

of nrne separate tape selectrons. wrth drgrtal LED readout of pre-selected program 

• 
Advanced transport system usrng Sony BSL motor wrth bUill-In lrequency generator. lor unrlorm. stable tape travel 

• 
Fernle-and-Ferrrte head 

• 
Dolby' norse reductiOn. wrth swrlchable multrplex triter lor Dolby recordrng of stereo FM broadcasts 

• 
Three-posrtron bras and equalrzatron swrtches 

• 
Standby capabrlrty lor lrmer-actrvated operatron 


'TM Dolby Laboralones Inc 
Today our display rmdel of this SONY CDf'I1JOI1el1f, Regularly $550 is 21 percent off 
J?e. Audio Specialists is running it~ annual De_mo Dutch Auction Sale. The way it works is strntple: On February 10 all demos 10 our Audio & Video depanrnents were marked at 10% off suggested list. Every business day the price will drop 1% per day until a component is sold Only one of each item will be sold at the sale price. The sale ends February 28th when every~hing remaining will be 25% off 
The pressure is on! Buy early and get the best selection or gamble and wait for even bigger deals. 
Ail tape pnces are discounted by the same amounts during the sale and anyone bn"nging in thts ad will get another 2% offal!prices. 
Come in and Save!! 
· 
Our ,Q
PREPARE FOR: 40th J year1
MCAT ·OAT· &MAT -) 
PCAT ·GRE ·OCAT ·VAT· SAT 1MB I. II. III·ECFMG·FLEX·VQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Our Centers & See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
GRE GMAT~~-ft Classes MPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
now forming SP~~~:L~sRAP~:!fcT~~~38 
call 291-3150 




1pcclali1t1 
T KC::.Q 
-\J
STEREO CA-SSETTE DECK 
. 

million Pinto and Mercury Bobcat sedans made between 1971 and 1976 that Ford announced in June were being recalled because of government tests showing the cars' fuel tanks leaked large amounts of fuel in moderate­speed carshes. 
The N&W indictment did not specify what acts the railroad allegedly committed to consittute reckless homicide. Alexander refused to elaborate for fear of jeopardizing the case. 
The indictment stemmed from a Feb. 8 accident at an Oakville crossing, near the Delaware­Henry County line in eastern Indiana, which killed Eddy Arm­strong, 42, and seriously mjured his wife, Joyce. 

5:00 p.m. ·Saturday 9:15a.m. Sunday 
10:30 a.m. Sunday 
12:15 p.m. Sunday 
7:15p.m. Vespers 


Rev. Roben Griffm. C.S.C. Fr. Thomas McNally Msgr. John). Egan Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Msgr. ]ohn]. Egan 


-----------------------------------------------------~­

~----~ --~ ---~ 
The Observer Friday, February 23, 1979 '"page 3 
ND students campaign to establish campus PIRG 

by Sue Wuetcher Senior StaffReporter 
A group of students at Notre Dame is mvolved in a campaign to establish a public interest research group (PIRG) on campus. 
A PIRG is basically a student consumer advocacy group, according to Dan Smtth, one of the organizers of the group. lnPIRG, the name of the group on campus, is the Northern Indiana­So~th Bend branch of the organi­zation. 
• • It gives students the chance to use the skills they've learned in school and apply them doing research projects in the areas of consumer protection and environ­mental affairs,'' Smith ex­plained. "Students can very easily get bogged down with books. lnPIRG is one of the best ways I know to get some practical experience. ' ' 
lnPIRG is in the midst of a petition drive to collect signa­tures supporting a $2 per semes­ter refundable fee. The group has reached its initial goal of 4,400 signarures, which repre­sents 50. 6 percent of the student body. Smith hopes eventually to gain the approval of 70 percent of the students. 
The fee would be used to hire a small professional staff, Smith said. ''The staff would help students with their research pro­jects and keep the group going when the students aren't here," Smith said. · He added that the money would also be allocated for any publications the group might put out. 
lnPIRG had a group on campus three years ago, but the Univer­siry cut the program because of funding and organizational prob­lems. Smith noted that the present attempt to reorganize the group is a direct result of a speech that Ralph Nader gave in 
November of last semester.  
"We  wanted  to  utilize  the  
motivation  generated  by  the  
Nader speech,'' Smith said.  ''It  



Regina Hall to sponsor talent show 
Regina Hall will sponsor a talent show tonight at 8 p.m. in Moreau Little Theatre. The show features vocal acts, piano solos and dance numbers. Admission is 50 cents and all proceeds go to St. Judes Childrens Hospital. 
Most of the participants in the show are freshmen who have been preparing since November. A prize will be awarded to the best talent act. Judges are : Mary Laverty, director of Student Activities; Susan Tamberini, Re­gina presidem. Sophomore .Ann Monagh~ wil be the master of ceremomes. 
Potential candidates to meet 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all potential candi dates for senior, junior, and sophomore class officers on Sun­day at 10 p.m. in the student government offices. 
Petitions for candidacy will be distributed only to those candi­dates who have rumed in their 
~-to the Office ~Student 
definitely helped. We got rouEh­ly 3,300 signatures in the first two weeks." 
PIRGs have worked on other campuses and can work here too, Smith stressed. He cited several examples of PIRGs' effective­ness. One in particular was a study done by the Bloomington (Indiana Universiry) PIRG inves­tigating Indiana Bell's request for $42 million rate increase. 
The PIRG published the results of its research, hearings were held and Indiana Bell was granted a rate increase of only $25.2 million. 
"lnPIRG helps the communiry and gives students a chance to realize that tht>y do have a voice in the things that go in the real world,·· Srruth emphasiz~d. 

lnPIRG students will meet with Administration officials later this month to discuss forwarding the petition proposal to the Board of Trustees, who must approve all measures involving fees. 
An orsanizational meeting will be held m LaFortune on Monday at 7 p.m. Any students who want to work with InPIRG or who have questions can contact Dan Smith at 283-1409 or Joe Musilek at 288-1228. 


Financial Aid Office director dispels lllyths 
Editor's Note: This is the concluding segment ofa series on financial aid. Today 's article discusses the types of aid available and where and how to get it. 
bv Pat Mangan StaffReporter 

"One thing's for sure, you won't get any aid if you don't apply for it!" said Joe Russo, director of the Financial Aid Office. 
According to Russo, one of the biggest obstacles in the student search for financial help is bad information. He added that many myths have grown up around the financial aid program. 
"The fact of the matter," he says, ''is that you don't have to be in dire poverry, be black, or have straight A's to get aid." 
Another common stumbling block Russo pointed out was the paper work involved. ''There are $12 billion available on the federal level alone but because of the paper work students. don't apply," he said. 
This problem is being addressed, however, he said. To get into the financial assistance process,. a sni'dent now only needs to comp_!:te the Financial Aid Form (FAt), and complete the two-page Notre Dame Financial Aid Application (FAA), both of which are available in the Financial Aid office, on the first floor of the Administration Bulding. 
· Both of these forms should be completed and ftled by April 15. The F AF should be filed with the College Scholarship Service, and the Notre Dame F.AA should be filed with the University's financial aid office. . 
However, all students interested in applying for fmancial aid for the 1979-80 academic year are advised to pick up and complete the F AF and FAA immediately. "Many students are eli~ble, but not all Jf them are recetving aid because the funds run out •• so the earlier the better,'' Russo said. 
There are basically three types 

of 'aid according to Russo; free 
aid, loans, and student 
employment prosrams. 
Free aid conststs mainly of 
scholarships or grants. Russo 
said that the Basic Educational 
Opportuniry Grant (BEOG) pro· 
gram is probably the most 
hopeful form of federally funded 
free aid. 
The BEOG !rogram has 

perhaps benefite more than all 
other federal programs since the 
enactment of the Middle-Income 
Student Assistance Act last fall, 
and many more students will 
qualify under the new law's 
provisions. 
This year Notre Dame students are receiving about $400,000 from the BEOG program. Next year, Russo said he was expecting about $750-800,000. 
For other forms offree aid such as scholarships and partial scholarships, students should check w~th the Financial Aid Office for a full list of sources such as; churches, civic groups, · foundation. 
Commenting on loan programs, Russo pointed out that the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL) was the most desirable since it is repayable at an interest rate of 3 percent. He also hinted that this program was in trouble because students were defaulting on the repayment of the loan. 
There IS also the Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL), and all students qualify £or this program. 
This program entitles the snfdent to a maximum of $7,500 in loans as an undergraduate. 
Repayment starts nine to· 12 months. after leaving school with and interest rate of 7 {>Crcent. As long as the student ts in school the federal government subsidises the interest. 
Under the third rype of aid, student work programs, students have many options. On campus alone there are over 2,500 positions available extending over a hundred places of employ­ment, and according to student employment supervisor Margaret Almeida, the federal College Work-Study program makes additional jo&s available off campus. 
Any student with questions number is '800-638-6700. concerning any of the above Any student interested in programs are encouraged to call being considered for any rype of the U.S. Office of Education's fmancial aid should contact the Student Information Center at Financial Aid Office as soon as their toll free number. The possible. 
SENIORaASS 
HAPPYHOUR at Goose's 3-6 3beers for $1.00 
6QC nllxOO drinks 
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 4 


Hunger Coalition Benefit Nite 
at the  N1.\.ZZ  
Music:  Jim Speier & Co.  
Steve Podry &  

LuAnnBand 
Poetry Reading: Pat Marks 

8:30PM-12:30AM 
FUNW' Friday at the NAZZ $1.00 admission 
HAVE YOUR WEDDiNG LOVE STORY CREATIVELY TOLD 
FAMILY PORTRAITS IN THE HOME 

tNSTANT PASSPORTS & APPLICATION PHOTOS 
PHOTOCOPY AND 2810MISHAWAKAAVE RESTORATION 232-9963 SOUTH BEND, IN CHILDREN ANIMALS 

[continued from page 1) 

Many Asians, said Walsh, thought at that time that a crisis was likely in the near future, if not inevitable. 
Walsh pointed out, as did Moody, that tensions among Southeast Asian countries, China and Vietnam in particular, are not a new phenomenon. 
Many peof?le in countries in Southeast Asta, Walsh said, are jealous and dislike the Chinese people. Not only does China represent an unwanted political force in the area, but groups of Chinese and their descendants have come together into pockets in many of those countrtes and have become a major part of the merchant classes. 
Through such means, China has become a dominating force in the area, and the Vietnamese esr.ecially have become resent­fu , Walsh pointed out. 
During his travels Walsh was able to see more specifically the reasons for both China and Vietnam wanting to be the lead, ing political and military force in the area. The land is extremely fertile, recounted Walsh, and is rich in natural resources. He guessed that the smaller Asian countries could supply all of China's agricultural needs. 
According to Walsh, most of the people he talked to last summer assumed and hoped that Vietnam would step into Cambodia to overthrow Pol Pot and end the mass purges that that regime was carrying out. 
Included in the mass exeeutions were groups of Vietnamese who lived within the borders of Cambodia which, Walsh pointed out, are not drawn along natural 
... Faculty 
boundaries . but are abritrary. 

Walsh remarked that he does not expect China, in its retaliat­ory actions against Vietnam, to try to "wipe-out" the Vietnamese. He also questions whether the Chinese could defeat the Hanoi Government, for the Vietnamese, thou~h outnum­bered, are battle-tramed. 
He sees the war as ''a fight for influence," but he expects that Southeast Asia "will continue to be a hotbed and smoulder for the rest of the century. Territories will change hands, but people, not land, ts what is important,'' Cambodia, under Chinese in­fluence, created an unstable sit­uation, and Vietnam has sought 
[continued from page 1) 

border and pushed 12 miles deep into Vietnam's Quang Ninh Pro­vince in the face of tough resistance, the sources said. The Chinese troops were 12 miles north of the east-west Highway 4, which links Lang Son with the South China Sea coast. 
This strike force, consisting of as many as 30,000 men, was expected to try to rout Highway 4 and then possibly swing inland and cut Highway 1 south of Lang Son, thereby isolating the Viet­namese forces between two Chinese armies. Information provided by Bangkok sources and Western military sources in Peking, quoted by Kyodo, indi­cated that the new Chinese attacks in the northeast were aimed at cutting off two highways linking the Vtetnamese-held, 
to militarily rectify that situation Walsh pointed out. ' 
According to Walsh, the United States will probably stay out of any troubles between Russia China, and Vietnam. He noted that this is also the opinion of most knowledgeable people in Southeast Asia. For, he remark­ed, 
The United States is seen as ''lacking any kind of realistic foreign policy,'' he remarded the 
U.S. is not expected by the Asians to stand up fol;',.. any American treaties after the "hutt" suffered after the in­volvement in the Vietnam war, Walsh concluded. 
... 'Smash' 
front-line town of Lang Son with Hanoi and the seacoast. 
... Sowder 
[continuedfrom page 1] 

Funeral servtces will be held Monday at St. Philip's Church in Idalou, Tex. Fr. Matthew Miceli, rector of Cavanaugh, will say the funeral mass. Four Notre Dame students, Kevin Dunphy, Paul Masciarelli, ] ay Albrecht, and Keith MacDonell will represent Cavanaugh Hall at the funeral. Kristin Neubauer, Sowder's girl­friend, and a Notre Dame fresh­
man,  will  also  accompany  the  
family back to Texas.  
Internment  is  planned  for  
Monday in Idalou.  


Price includes : • Transportation 
• 
Lodging in Ft. Lauderdale, Orlando 

• 
Disneyworld Ticket




Call 234-2.196 
24hours 

-----~--------~--­
The Observer Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 5 

JPWschedule of events 
Junior Parents Weekend is scheduled to begin tonight wit~ a Kickoff Party in the main concourse of the ACC. The followmg is a list of the weekend's events. 
TONIGHT 2:00pm Registration--LaFortune Student Center tillS:?? 
9:30 pm Cocktail Dance --Monogram Room & Main Concourse of ACC -registration cont. 
SATURDAY 
9:00am Registration --LaFortune Student Center till 
9:30am Collegiate Workshops till 11:30 am in individual college buildings. Coffee and donuts --no luncheons. 
5:00 pm Mass --Sacred Heart, Fr. Griffin. 6:30pm Junior Class Mass--Sacred Heart, Fr. Egan. 8:00pm Presidential Dinner-Stepan Center. 
SUNDAY 
9:30 am Closing Breakfast --Stepan Center, featuring guest speaker Dean Emil Hofman. 
All tickets should be picked up at registration. 
TEHRAN, Iran [AP] -Ira.O will resume oil exports very s~n, Deputy Prime Minister Ebrahim Yazdi said yesterday. 
Yazdi did not say exactly when the exports would resume or in what amount. 
Loss of Iran's oil exports, which peaked at about 5 million barrels a day during the rule of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, has thrown the world oil market into chaos. 
Iran's wells have started pro­ducing at the rate of about 700,000 barrels a day for domestic use. Before oilfield strikes crippled production last fall, the U.S. bought about 10 percent of its imported oil from Iran. Europe and Japan also relied heavily on Iraman oil. 
Under the shah, Iran sold oil to Israel and South Mrica, but Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini said that will be stopped. Kho­meini's government has prom­ised to resume sales to the U.S., 
despite strong American backing for the shah. The U.S. has since recognized the Khomeini govern­ment. 
Marine Sgt. Kenneth Kraus left Iran yesterday on an Ameri-
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir will join the Wabash College Glee Club and Chamber Orchestra and professional solo­ists in a concert in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall on Sun­day at 8 p.m. 
oseph Haydn's Mass in Time 
o War [Paukenmesse], will be
iet e major work of the concert. A quartet of professional soloists wi~l augment the 100 choral voices. 
The soloists include soprano Nancy Wandland of the Saint Mary's voice faculty and mezzo­soprano Trudy Heller, as well as tenor Robert Smith and bass 
Groupplans bake sale 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Group will hold a bake sale on Sunday from 10 a.m. -5 p.m. and from 8 p.m. -11 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. Sales will also be made after all masses at Sacred Heart Church as well as at the Library pit from 1-5 and 8-llp.m. 
The bake sale will continue on Monday. All proceeds will go to Birthright, an organization which works to provide alternatives to abortion for pregnant mothers. 



WSNDelects new manager 
Jim O'Brien, a junior majoring in physics from Stevens Point, WI, was elected last night as station manager of WSND­AM/FM radio. O'Brien was elected by the station's ext'!'utive board, which is co"1prised of the station manager .tnd the six department heads. 
O'Brien will take over as station manager on April l. He replaces Kate Bernard. O'Brien's major goal is that the station have "more interaction with the Notre Dame commun­ity." 
Edward Cook, Indiana University ~raduate students who have been mvolved in numerous opera pro­ductions. 
The Haydn work will be direc­ted by Frederic Ford, professor of music at Wabash College. 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir, directed by Raymond Sprague, will present selections from Folk Songs of the Four Seasons by Ralph Vaughan Williams. The Wabash Glee Club will sing selections by Carl Orff, Randall Thompson, Josquin des Prez and Elliot Forbes. 
Frederic Ford, in his seventh year at Wabash College, has also conducted choruses at Harvard University, Radcliffe College, the University of Virginia and the State University of New York at Buffalo. 
He is a graduate of Harvard College and is a Ph.D. candidate at SUNY Buffalo. In April he will conduct the premier of • 'The Crimson Bird,'' a chamber opera by Wabash College Professors 

Fr. Griffin 
to offer 5pmMass 
Fr. Robert Griffin will offer Mass at 5 pm tomorrow, and not 
5: 15 as incorrectly stated in a list of Junior Parents Weekend 
events  printed  yesterday.  
Juniors  especially  should  take  
note.  The  official  Mass  for  

Juniors and their parents will be at 6:30pm. 

NAZZtohost WHCbenefit 
The World Hunger Coalition will sponsor a benefit perfor­mance by three local groups in the Nazz tonight from ~: 30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. There will also be poetry readings. 
Admission will be $1.00 





Iran will resume oil exports 
SMC Women's Choir to give concert 
Frederic Enenback and Richard Strawn. 
Admission to the concert is free, but because of the limited seating capacity of the Little Th<;:atre, guests are advised to arnve early. 
can evacuation flight to Frank­furt, West Germany. He was en route to his home in Lansdale, Pa., near Philadelphia after being imprisoned for a week by Khomeim forces. 

He was accused of "firing at Iranians" during last week's storming of the U.S. Embassy by leftists. He was slightly wounded in the attack, and was released after the U.S., aided by France, applied heavy pressure on the new government for his release. 
In Washington, Sen. Thomas Eagleton, D-Mo., asked Presi­dent Carter to replace William H. Sullivan as U.S. Ambassador to Iran, saying Sullivan's continued presence m Iran would harm American relations with the new government. 
In other developments yester­day, the Marxist People's Fe­dayeen guerrillas prepared for a rally today at Tehran University to protest the direction Iran's Islamic revolution has taken. It will be the first open show of opposition to Khomeini and is expected to indicate how strong Marxist opposition is. 
Khometni has branded them ''communists and enemies of the revolution" has said only author­ized "soldiers of Islam" may be armed. 


Knights of Columbus 
Feb.23 8:30.11:00 Feb.24 3:00,5:00,8:30,11:00 Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Members Free 
NESTLE INFANT FORMULA­BOYCOTT ENDORSERS (partial list) 
INDIVIDUALS 

Dr. Doris Calloway, Chairwoman, 
Dept. of Nutrition, University of 
California, Berkeley 

Cesar Chavez, President, United Farmworkers 
Dick Clark, U.S. S~nator,lowa 
Dr. Allan Jackson, Tropical 
Metabolism Research Unit, 
Kingston, Jamaica 

Dr. Derrick Jelliffe, Head 
of Division of Pooulation. Family and Public Health, UCLA School of Public Health 
Frances Moore Lappe, Author 
of Diet for a Small Planet and 
Food First! 

Dr,Michael Latham, Director, Program on International Nutrition, 
Cornell University 
Ralph Nader 
Dr. Benjamin Spack 

CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS 
Archdioceses {Roman Catholic) ot Denver. New Orleans. St. Paul Minneapolis and San Francisco 
Dioceses (RC) of Rochester, N.Y. 
and Albany, N.Y. Dominican Sisters Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers 
National Council of Churches Lutheran Student Movement Presbyterian Church in the U.S. United Church of Christ 
(six conferences) 
United Methodist Church {twelve conferences) 
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS . . Amencan Med1cal Student Association Bread for the World 
-Democratic Parties of Minnesota COLLEGES and-Washington St. 
National Organization of Women
univ. of penn. food service colorado college students OXFAM-AMERICA grinnel college students Peace Corps Volunteers genesed college students of Cameroon student unions of san jose st. United Farm Workers of 
and uc-berkeley America (UEW) wellesley college food service 
Vote to Boycott Nestle this Tuesday 
~ ~ ~-------­
r-----------------------~------~~ 

The Observer 


Smokers 
•

contmue smoking despite 
•


warnmgs 
Buy Classifieds ftom 
The Observer 

[AP] -Dee Merritt of Mill Valley, CA., thinks smoking is "an absolutely dumb habit ... detri­mental to my health." 
But the 42/ear-old Ms. Mer­ritt, owner o a travel agency, also says she likes to smoke. ''I think it has to do with a hidden psychological need (and) nothing will . make me stop smoking until I can find out what that need is." 
There are an estimated 54 million tobacco smokers in the United States. They are told, almost daily, of new links between smoking and cancer, smoking anu heatt attacks, smok­ing and ulcers . 
Every time cigarette smokers pick up a pack, the-reminder is there, ordered by the govern­ment: ''Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined That Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health." 
That warning stems from a 

1964 surgeon general's report 
that linked cigarettes to lung 
cancer in men. Last month, on 
the 15th anniversary of the first 
study, the surgeon general is­
sued another report, confirming 
the dangers, not only from lung 
cancer, but from other illnesses 
as well and not only to men, but 
to women.




, _______________,
Why do su many millions of 

!BULLA SHED l 
I 5:15 mass and supper F:W I 
I ili~hhl~ ~II I
I and every friday-Ci!II)E,US • 
\ . . m1n1:...ry I 

~---------------~ 
•' 
Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 6 
people ignore the warnings? Why, like Merritt, do they keep on puffmg? 
"Obviously, it's pleasurable," said William Dunn Jr., head scientist at Philip Morris Inc.'s research center in Richmond, Va. 
''The fact that something is dangerous is not enou~h to keep people from doing it,' said Dan Horn, a retired researcher who worked on the first surgeon general's report and gave up smoking as a result. 
"For many people, it's a matter of making a choice,'' said Horn. "Many smokers don't realize the very high probability of injury." They read the reports, ·but figure it won't happen to them, they' II get away with it. "Well," said Horn, "not very many people get away with it." 
He added: "It's surprising how few people express a real liking for their smoking.. Most say they do it because it does something for them ... kind of an anxiety reducer. ' ' 
A new sutdy indicates that the death rate from lung cancer will probably decline in coming years because many smokers have switched to cleaner cigarettes. But the doctors who conducted the study -which was reported Thursday in the New England Journal of Medicine -said that smoking is still dangerous and should be avoided. 
A Wankato, MN., farmer who 

asked not have his name used, 
said he doesn't believe all the 
warnings. ''People who have 
smoked for years are still 
alive," he said. 
Uoyd Busch, 34, a Ph.D. 

candidate at Emory University's 
Institute of Uveral Arts in Atlan­
ta, knows that smoking is bad for 
him. ''I guess I rationalize that 
the damage has been done.. .I 
think I'm one of those I_Jeople who smoke and get a posiuve jolt out of it." 
Philip Morris' Dunn said many people are "getting uite a bit of plelli>ure out of the simple act of smoking." He said smokers look at the risks of illness and often think: "I'm willing to take my chances of being that one who gets sick)." 
Dunn added: "There are two motivations involved in the case of the smoker. .. The initiation of smoking when one is young -this is peer pressure, the creation of an image of oneself ... 
''The maintenance of the smoking act is something else again ... Many of us feel there is some central nervous system effect ... Smoking seems to im­prove our coping efficiency.'' 
Gary Berntson, an Ohio State University researcher, says that smokers may be extra-sensitive to stress, the nicotine can help them deal with that stress. "In that sense," he said, "it's thera­peutic and that's why I think people smoke.'' 
Berntson is studying the effects of nicotine on rage behav­ior in cats and how human smokers at different nicotine levels react to stress-filled situa­tions. "We believe that nicotine has an inhibiting effect on certain types of motivational arousal,'' Berntson said. ''For smokers, nicotine restores them more to the norm .. .It's restoring peor.le more to what nonsmokers fee .'' 
Dr. Jerome Jaffe of the New York State Psychiatric Institute said there are distinct groups of smokers, each of which has its own reasons for continuing. 
''I think that some smokers have ... ways of convincing them­selves that it (the danger) either doesn't apply to them or that its not iromediate ... Theo there's a sub-group of smokers who say that this 1s something that makes them feel better ... They'd rather live a few years less and enjoy themselves ... They don't feel that good about themselves and they don't feel that good about the future. 
''Another group says they simply can't function without cigarettes. Some of them manage to deny everything. They don't .see the warnings. They don't want to hear them. They don't want to think about them. They are determined not to change. " 
ChessOub holds match 
The Notre Dame Chess Club will meet South Bend in a match at 2 p.m. on Sunday in the LaFortune Rathskeller. 
Anyone interested in playing should show up at 1 :55. Spectators are welcome. There will be no admission charge. 
Candidates planforum 
There will be a candidates' forum Sunday at 8 p.m. at Walsh Hall. Candidates for Student Body President and SBVP will be present. 
The forum will be informal with the candidates giving open­ing statements and then fielding questions from the floor. 
Hall Presidents' Council Chair­mao Chuck DelGrande will be the moderator for the forum. 


C'mon, Fighting Irish di.seover the Walt Disne~ World Spring Fling! 
It's a terrific combination-you, spring break, and Walt Disney World, where there's more recrea­
tion, entertainment, and sheer spec­tacle than anywhere in Florida! 
Roar through the galaxy on Space Mountain ... sail with a crew of plun­dering pirates ... and surround yourself with the fun and fantasy of the Magic King­dom's six themed "lands"-all in the middle 
of 43 square miles of vacation fun! 
Magic Kingdom operating hours are extended March 11-24 (9 a.m. -10 p.m.)*, so there's plenty of time to make this year's migration magic. Best of all, we're only a 
few hours away from nearly any point in Rorida! 
The Walt Disney World Spring Fling­make it part of this year's break . . . and make some memories. 
*Saturday March 17 and 24: 9 a.m. -midnight 


Walt IV)isneYiji!~i~~d 8-Advenru~ nckm Book= s8.so 



--··~---~---~~--­
The Observer Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 7 

Voting unanimously 

Cotntnittee passes Taiw-an bill 
WASHINGTON [APJ -The Senate Foreign Refations Com­mittee voted unanimous approval yesterday of a ''Taiwan security'' bill declaring that continued U.S. recognition of the Peking govern­ment depends upon a peaceful approach by China towards Tat wan. 
The committee, by a 10-0 vote, accepted compromise wording declaring that a threatened attack by the mainland againc;t Taiwan would be "of grave concern to the United States.'' 
The issue is expected to stir a fresh fight when the bill reaches the floor of the Senate. 
While the vote on the Taiwan amendment was unanimous, a clearer indication of sentiment on the committee came earlier on wording suggested by Sen. Charles Percy, R-Ill. 
Percy's proposal that a move against Tatwan be considered a threat against "the security in­terest of the United States" was rejected 11-4. 
The wording approved by the committee had won the reluctant acceptance of President Carter, who announced last Dec. 15 that the United States would recog­nize Peking while cutting off diplomatic relations with Tatwan. 
Yesterday's vote will probably allow the full Senate to vote confirmation of Leonard Wood­cock, whose nomination as the new ambassador to Peking had ~en entangled in the Taiwan 
ISSUe. 

Hey, Leonard consider 
~sexuality' 
A discussion of "Sexuality: 
Yours, Mine and Ours" will be 
held at Notre Dame on Tuesday 
at 7:30 p.m. in the Architecture 
Building auditorium. 
Richard N. Hey, professor and 
head of Family Soctal Science at 
the University of Minnesota, and 
Juanita Evans Leonard, a 
marriage and family counselor in 
Indianapolis, will begin the dia­
logue by making brief presenta­
tions before taking questions 
from the audience. 
The session will focus on 
student concerns about sexuality 
and family life. It is jointly 
sponsored by the Department of 
Sociology and Anthropology and 
the Department of Theology at 
Notre Dame and the Saint Mary's 
College Department of Religious 
Studies. 
Hey joined the Minnesota 
faculty lt:J 1964 after nine years 
with the Department of Psy­
chiatry at the University of 
Pennsylania School of Medicine. 
He has a private practice in 
marriage counseling, and he is a 
fdlow and former president of 
the American Association of 
Marriage and Family Counselors 
and former president of the 
National Council on Family Rela­
tions. In 1969 he recived the 
Council's Osborne Award for 
Excellence in Teaching. 
Leonard also has a private 
practice in marriage and family 
therapy and she is pastor for adult 
and tami7 life at the Glendale 
Church o God in Indianapolis. 
She is president-elect of the 
Indiana Association of the Ameri­
can Association for Marriage and 
Family Therapy. Her publica­
tions mclude a variety of articles 
and pamphlets, and she is editor 
of a discussion guide for leaders 
of youth. 

The compromise, worked out ioned by senior members of the by Sens. Frank Church, the committee with the reluctant committee's chairman, andJacob agreement of the Carter admin­Javits, its senior Republican, istration is part of a broad China struck a balance between those bill that the committee later went who believe no Taiwan legislation on to approve 13-0. is necessary and others who The bill gives Taiwanese mem­sought specific guarantees of a bers of a private corporation in 
U.S. military response to a the U.S. roughly the same privi­Chinese threat to the island. leges as diplomats of other 
Earlier,Javits said he doubted nations. that the Taiwan security bill The Coordinating Council for would jeopardize the new rela-North American Affairs is to tionship wtth Peking. But he said replace the Taiwan Embassy in a continued interest in the well-the United States. being of Taiwan is important Its staff members are to carry enough to risk a break. 'out normal trade and cultural 
''If this is going to be the business with the United States breaking point, then let it go," through a counterpart private said Javits. organization called the American 
The Taiwan amendment fash-Institute. 
Saint Mary's College Bowl picks contestant~ for final team 
by Margie Brassil StaffReporter 

The final contestants for the Saint Mary's College Bowl team were chosen last night in a tournament played against the coaches and faculty. The acrual starters have not been decided but the team will consist of Cathy, Cowhey, Louise Enyedy, Lisa Fulks, Cathy Loftus and Patty Field. Field, however was not a contestant in last night's tournament. 
The students lost the first two rounds to their coaches last night 225-200 and 220-120. The coaches are Richard Pilger, pro­fessor of chemistry, and head coach, Anthony Black, associate professor of history, Richard Leavy, assistant professor of psychology, Bro. Larry Stewart, assistant professor of biology, and Claude Renshaw, assistant professor of business. 
The third round of competition was played against other faculty members including Gail Mandell, assistant professor of humanis­tics, Linnea Vacca, assistant pro­fessor of English, as well as 
Soph.formal tofeature Grass Roots 
It was officially announced yes­terday that national recording artists "The Grass Roots" will perform at Century Center on April 7 for the Sophomore Class spring formal, "Spirit in the Night.'' 
The Grass Roots were most popular during the late sixties and early seventies, but their music continues to sell today, more than a decade after they came onto the music scene with their first hit "Where Were You When I Needed You." 
Million selling singles came steadily for the group with such favorites as ''Things I Should Have Said," Midrught Confes­sions," "Wait a Million Years," "Temptation Eyes," "Two Divi­ded by Love," and "Sooner or Later." 
The Grass Roots' "16 Greatest Hits" album went platinum, and to date the group has sold more than 15 milhon records. 
Tickets will be available to sophomores next week through their hall representatives. 
Nancy Kommers and Mina Costa. The round was won by the students, 270-135. 
The coordinators of the tourna­ment were Mary Laverty, direc­tor of Student Activities, and Linda Kosczk, assistant hall director of Regina. . 
Albert Shannon questioned the contestants as Mardi Nevin kept score and Mary Beth Spear judged the responses. Korczyk acted as announcer. 
The team of four starters and one alternate will continue to 
prepare  for  the  Regionals  on  
March 8 to  be  held  at  Saint  
Mary's.  

You don't 
have (()shop ~d. 
Icelaitdic 


has the 
best bargain
to&ttoj)e. 






S29S 

tUUndtrlp. 
You've heard a lot about fares to Europe, but none of them can com~are with the one you've just found. 
Icelandic s 14-45 day APEX fare from Chicago to Luxembourg is just $295 roundtrip. Tickets must be booked and paid for 30 days in advance. Fare subject to change. No weekend surcharge.
You'll get free wme with your_,dinner, free cognac afterwards and excellent friendly-Service all the way across the Atlantic. 
We'll take you to Luxembourg, right in the heart of Europe, where you'll be just hours away by train or car from 
almost all of Europe's most famous landmarks. Seats are limited, so don't 
waste any more time hunting. 
You've already found the 
best bargain of them all. 
. 
See your travel agent or contact the Puffin nearest you. Or write Dept.

1 #C-396, Icelandic Airlines, 18 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL 60603.
1 Orcall800-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area. 
Please send me more information on:I 0 Low Cost Fares O European Tours 0 Alpine Ski Tours NAME ______________________________
I 
I ADDRESS ______ 
I
I CITY STATE -Zll' -­
: ~~€~~f~f!,!C.~cELANDAI~ 
~------------------~ 

St. Ed's Hall 
presents the play 


Washington ha#l Bpm Thursday and Friday February 23 & 24 
Admission $1.00 tickets available in student activities office 

tfhe CoQoftiaQ 




PANCAKE HOUSE 
g'amiQy CRegtauna~t 
We never compromise with quality 

CWeQcome 
u\f.C[). Jutttolt cpaltett~ 


272-7433 

_________________________________, 
--------~--~~-~---~ 
-~­
Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 8 




Editorials 


With reservations 
RocheNita 
Student Body presidents and vice-presidents begin their terms eagerly, but quickly create an meffective bureaucracy which does not represent student views. Each year, Notre Dame students recognize this problem and search at election time for a candidate who can break student government out of the doldrums it has been in too long. 
The three tickets ~going for SBP /VP this year present students with a wi~e spectrum of attempts to shake student government from Its lethargy. The most traditional ticket consists of. Bill.Roche/B~ Vita.. Roche currendy serves as Student Uruon director, while Vita IS president of St. Ed's fWI. The .~o ~ve ~tional experience in working with the Administranon, which would help them to present effective proposals. They are effective in their current positions but are doing their best to avoid being indentified with the' current . Ic:a~ers. of student government. Roche/Vita stress this ~stlDCnon because they say they would have done many things d.ifferendy:. 
Roche/Vita point out that most traditional student 6QV'em­ment proposals reactions to steps taken by the Administration. Roche /Vita want to avoid preventive actions by setting on the ground floor of the decision-making process. This would be a gre~t. advan~e because students would ~tually be making deciSIOns which affect them. The two candidates specifically want to obtain student input into the hiring and tenuring of professors, as well as the hiring of rectors. 
We believe both of these issues deserve student attention. We concur with the concern of Roche/Vita that no student government proposal exists at present for the utilization of three million dollars form the Campaign-for Notre Dame earmarked for hall improvements. 
Roche/Vita's proposals are well researched. We believe that of the three tickets, Roche/Vita have the best chance of being effective and shaking student government from its stagnations. For this reason, The Observer endorsesthe Roche/Vita tickets. 
There are two other tickets in this campaign. One consists of Mike "Hymie" Heaney and Ryan Ver-Berkmoes. "Hymie" is an unusual character who certainly draws attention to himself. But he is not campaigning as a joke: he is lashing out at the same problems many students see in student government. He does not like the infinite number of cabinet positions which break down leadership and extend the chain of command beyond what is necessary. The Observer agrees with his postion on that issue. However, while "Hymie" mar be effective in shaking students up, it is questionable how effective he would be as SBP. The ticket lacks well articulated and defmed ~oals. "Hymie/Ryan V. also lack understanding of the disnnction between student government and student union. Many of their proposals deal with operations which fall under the auspices of Student Union. 
... ~ ... .. . 
The third ticket is Dan Portman and Eileen Wrrley. Their positions fall somewhere between those of Roche /Vita and Hymie/Ryan V. Portman, on hisposters, claims his ticket willnot ''Stick pins in your mouth,'' a device to spark interest and ~ain attention. He says he would "act outside the conventional ' in an attempt to get things done. While this position might be appealing, Portman comes up with too many conventional methods, such as presenting proposals to the fWl Presidents Council, when pressed for examples. , 
It is commendable that tickets such as "Hymie" /Ryan V .and Portman/Wirley have shown an interest in running for office. They would certainly shake up student government, but they lack a definite plan of action. For this reason we question their effectiveness. 
The Roche/Vita ticket is traditional; but if they follow their pi~ to pursue ~active role in the decision-making process and avmd prevennve government, they could be effective. However, Roche must avoid the situation where the SBP attempts to control everything by himSelf. If elected Roche/Vita must insure students input and participation m important issues an~ student government in general. 
The Observer endorses Rodie/Vita with reservations. 

Infants ofthe Third World 
countries. Disregarding this, the Nestle
Multinational corporations have been charged Corporation has been increasing its sales in Third with a number of unethical practices over the past World countries ever since the population growth decade. The most relevant and crucial of all these in the United States dropped. 
charges is that the use of infant formula is causing There are many abhorrent promotional tacticsmalnutrition in thousands of Third World infants. 
being used by Nestle to sell their formula. MilkTragically, malnutrition causes irreversible brain nurses are one effective method. These women aredamage and death. The Nesde Corporation is the employed by the Nesde Corporation to visitlargest multinational marketer of infant formula in maternity wards, or even the homes of newdeveloping countries and uses a hard sell mothers, to provide the mother with free samplespromotional technique. It is through the unethical of infant formula.
promotional advernsing practiced by Nesde that Perhaps the most effective marketing practice of more and more poverty stricken rilothers are now Nesde is the use ofsales persons with access to the using infant formula, instead of breast feeding, to medical profession. Nestle supplies free samples, nurse their babies and, as a result of this, the slick medical literature, medical equipment, funds proportion of malnutrition among Third World for medical conferences and even kickbacks toinfants is skyrocketing. 
doctors. Nestle is able to win doctors' implicitAdmittedly, it is true that there are mothers who endorsement ofinfant formula through these typesare physically unable to nurse their babies, but of marketing camJ?aigns. As a result, the motherthese cases are rare. The fact remains that· many leaves the clinic With free samples, her breast milk. Third World mothers, who are able to breast feed, dries up and Nestle has won another consumer. 
are now using infant formula. This is resulting in a Senator Edward Kennedy, during the US Senatedrastic rise in malnutrition among infants. When Hearings on the infant formula, sums up thebreast feeding was widespread, malnutrition paradox of the use of the medical profession forusually did not become severe until the second year promotion:oflife. Now the average age of severe malnutntion 
in infants is from eight to eighteen months. This Can a .Product which requires clean water, good 
drop is a result of the widespread use of infant sanitation, adequate family income and a literate formula in inappropriate environments. 
parent to follow printed instructions be properly The use of infant formula in Third World and safely used in areas where water is countries is disastrous for several reasons. First, 
contaminated, sewage runs in the streets, poverty the majority of women in Third World countries 
is severe and illiteracy is high? ... When economic cannot afford to supply a constant flow of infant incentives are in conflict with public health 
formula to their babies. According to pediatric requirements how shall that conflict be resolved? 
nutritionist D.B. Jelliffe infant formula is "totally 
Is tt enough to establish a code for product use or beyond the economic range of the group to whom 
disown or turn away from the realities of product they are supplied.'' As a result, mothers stretch use? out a can for longer periods than it is intended for. 
The governments of the developing countries A 1978 World Health Organization report states: 
realize the urgency of the problem. Many of the governments are trying to set up counter programs The probability of mothers having access to clean and restrict the sales of infant formula. It iswater is ·low... and preparation of formulas will difficult for any of these poverty stricken govern­almost inevitably lend itself to contamination ... 
ments to achieve any effective program against aMothers who become dependent upon breastmilk · multimillion dollar corporation. There is asubstitutes are often unable to purchase the nationwide boycott of Nestle currently in progress quantity of commercially-prepared product that in the United States. This is the most effectivewould be needed ... Over dilution of what little can means by which Americans can demonstrate their be afforded is a well-known solution turned to by antipathy towards Nestle. Nestle, because it ismany mothers .. .lts results are disastrous for the based in Switzerland, is immune to all lawsuitshealth of the child. 
against their marketing practices. 
Secondly, the Third World countries lack the On Tuesday's student government election 
hygenic facilities required to prepare and to store ballot there will be a student referendum to remove 
the formula. Clean water is necessary for formula all Nestle products from the dining halls. The 
use, yet, the water in Third World countries is referendum can provide Notre Dame students with 
often contaminated. Moreover, it is impossible to a concrete method by which to respond to the 
sterilize bottles and nipples without a clean water infant formula crisis. 
supply and the necessary fuel. Refrigeration is Nestle is exploiting Third World mothers 
required for safe storage of the formula, yet, through their ignorance. Infant formula should not 
refrigerators are quite rare in developing coun­be banned from these countries, for a small 
tries. As a result, the formula often gets baked in minority of the mothers, there is a real need for a 
the sun, which results in diarrhea, which in turn substitute to breast feeding. The problem lies in 
leads to malnutrition. the unjust marketing practices of the Nestle 
In addition, there are significant psychological, Corporation in the developing countries. It is these 
anti-infective, and contraceptive benefits which practices that must be altered immediately. 
breast feeding supplies and irifant formula cannot. Otherwise, the choice between breast and borde 
These are the main reasons that infant formula is may be a choice between life and death. 
· for · use in Third World 

IT'S 7Hc U/ORK­MEN, 5/R, TH£3 
ON5//'6TAU­

7 "" 
/Nfl 7HE NEJAJ 
f(J(}NOJmON•• 
I 

=· 


1:1~ ~~ 

~~~ 
=~ 
0 
a 
~ h 
ff lf}()(S 84o, SIR. 
>011/JCT­
"/l!R CIJ'rlC 
QIJICKLY. 
I 

-----------~------~-------­
The Observer -Editorials Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 9 
P. 0. Box Q 

to it has provided the incentive Consequently, we made it aParticipation for what has come to be known as major plank m our platform. The "The Seniors Act Festival." opportunity for a collective ex­
Only conservative estimates perience ofthe arts hit home with • · 
encouraged in SAF can be made concerning the a lot of seniors. We are now amount of poetry written by finding out why. Notre Dame students. No one 
The committees which have Dear Editor: knows because there are few been formed are each day dis­
outlets for anything but the most covering talent in places where 
It has been said of this school polished. One must consider that no one ever ventured to look. It is that for every particular interest composers of music and the precisely the limited outlets for or hobby a student might have, casual \X)t·throwers encounter artistic expression, the lack of there are at least two organiza­even stncter limitations. Ima­opponunitles for creative expo­tions through which it can be gine what this place would be like sure which the Festival hopes to purs~:~ed. . Athletes can partici­ifvarsity football offered the only eliminate. In the final assess­
pate m a gtven sport on the hall, opponunity for students to play ment of the matter, however, it is tntramural or varsity level. The the game. I have to think that a o~y a hope, be~ause every senior conscious mild degree of frustration would
more socially can 'Ylth the capactty yet the unwil­
choose from a variety of volun­inevitably occur. And yet for the l~ngne~s to participate takes a 
teer and community services. person who has written a song, httle btt away from a Festival that 
Furthermore, even the enlight· the one who has cast a metal was meant expecially for him or ened worshippers of the tube get sculpture or created a painting, her. Seniors, it's your choice. to choose between Chicago and as well as for the one who knows Friends, it's your Festival. South Bend stations. We are someone who has--for these indi­student body of diverse interests viduals, there must be a similar 
Jerry Castellini 

and skills, with a club or activity feeling of frustration. 
Senior Class President for each one of them. Enter the Senior Arts Festival. 
Or are we? A perusal of the There is presently at work a core Notre Dame's directory's clubs of hard-working seniors whose and organizations page provides sole purpose is to grant indivi­the reader with a list long enough duals the opporturuty for pre­to keep Senior Bar smokers going sentation that their art deserves. Urges prompt every Monday and Tuesday !'lthough ~his opEOrtunity is Jim.' night for the rest of the year. tted to seruors, It 1s our hope that Still! it~ length, as I see it, does the Festival will become a tradi­return ofpaintings not mdicate totality, a true com­tion for other senior classes to ~leteness, sufficient representa· follow. Based on initial response tton. Upon further examination, and preliminary feedback, this is Dear Editor: there is one body of interests exactly the direction in which shared by a large percentage of we're heading. We, as students of Saint students for which there are Since its inception, the concept Mary's College and members of limited channels for adequate of a Senior Arts Festival has the advanced painting class ~plementa~ion, scanty opponu­pro~d both viable and exciting. demand the immediate return of runes for mvolvement. That In our campaign for class office, the six j>aintings which were interest is in the fine arts, and the we found the class extremely t~ken ~rom t~e . lobby of vacancy which, at times, attends receptive to the SAF idea. 0 Laughlm Auditonum during 
You're a Winner
art buchwald 
WASfllNGION--It seems every $20,000-a-year for life annuity. If city-owned hospital in the coun­time the mailman comes he no animal appears in the white try." delivers another large envelope space YOU HAVE NOT LOST. ''And for that we get a 
addressed to me announcing that You are eligible for an oil change racehorse?'' I have either won a GIANT at the gasoline station of your ''We do if our insurance policy SWEEPSTAKES, or have a choice. number matches the winning CHANCE of winning one if I will "Wait, there's more. Because number of the Irish Sweep­just open the letter. w~ believe Drowning magazine stakes.'' 
I want you to know that these will not only appeal to your desire ''I'm not sure I want a horse " to learn more about what hap­I said. ''If he wins the Kentucky 
these are not pieces of imper­sonal junk mail. They are pens when you sink to the bottom Derby the sportswriters won't addressed "Dear Art and Ann," of the sea, we are offering the give us any peace. " and go something like this: first one million subscribers a She went through some other 
letters. ''All right, then, how
"We're happy to Uiform you that chance to win 1,000 gold-minted 
you have almost won a $150,000 coins dred~ed up from a Spanish w~:m1d you like a 707 Boeing jet solar home, $20,000 a year for ~leon which sank off the coast With leather ~ats designed by life, a three-month cruise around of Florida in 1665. The~ coins GucCl.')" 
"That sounds more like it.
the world or a Gillette double­are practically yours if you act How do we win that?"
edged razor. You do not have to NOW. 
"I'm not sure. All the letter
do anything to win one of these . "Art,and Ann, I'll be very hurt says is 'Dear Art and Ann, Youprizes. except ~ubscribe to ifI don t hear from you this week. 
h:'lve won a 707 Boeing jetDrowmng magazme, the new ''Love, au-plane. Please flU out this cardbimonthly publication devoted to '')udy Hammer'' and enclose $29. 50 for luggagepeople who can't swim. Even if ' I must admit that even I get ~ags. These rages will be placed you don't subscribe to our maga­sucked inby this kind of mail, and m a computer, and if your tag is
zine you have an opponunity to my wife also gets very excited the ~leered the Boeing will beparticipate in a drawing for an day a sweepstakes letter arrives. 
deli~red to your hangar or anyall-clay trip up the Amazon (air The other afternoon when I airline terminal gate that you
fare not included) or a {X?nable came home she couldn't contain specify. All cards with checks:-crewdriver with your irutials on herself. "We've just won a niust be in no later than March lt. three-year-old racehorse," she 
1.',', ,
''1his is how you can win: Rub said hugging me, "and it will I don t see how the sweep·
~blank white square below. If probably win the Kentucky stakes mailers do it,'' I said. 
a buffalo appears in the space, Derby." . 
''Tht"V-{ e·aive so much and ask so then you are one of the really lucky ''What do we have to do for 1ittle m return." 
ones who may be moving mto it?" I wanted to know. 
My wife agreed. "And people your new solar-heated $150,000 "Nothing," she said, "but say there is no such thing as the 
hou~ next month. If a turkey take out a health and accident American dream.'' 
1 rz~....

shows up, your name automan­policy which will guarantee us c , s Ange~e~ , _ _,
( ) 1979 Lo 
cally goes into a box for the $10 a day for 12 days in any Syndicate 
the weekend of February 17th. 
Those art works were put on 
display for the sole purpose of 
s~aring our ideas and our talents 
wtth the SMC/ND conununity 
not for the financial benefit ofon~ 
particular party. If art cannot be 
displayed without the fear of 
theft, we will no longer show our 
work. 

The theft was not the first, but 
the third to occur during the '78-'79 academic year--a total of fo~een ~tole~ pamtings. It is an outright v10latton of our right to personal property (as each of these works was of immeasurable value), and also a moral strike 
against the ideals of the 
ND/SMC community. 
The paintings which "walked" out of O'Laughlin were three feet by three feet. Five were mono­0romatic, hard-edged composi­tiOns (two green, one red, two blue), and one, curved primary· colored composition. These sl.X were "selected'' out ofa group of twenty-four works harigin~ in the lobby--the "collectors ' had enous~ nerv~ ~0 rearrange the re~rung pamt!ngs so that those rrussmg wouldn t be noticed. 
Please help us to locate these paintings. Help us prevent further thefts by being con­cerned! ~y being observant, and ~y noufymg the proper authori­ties. We are outraged we are hurt, but with your supJ.:>On we can prevent funher thefts and continue to share our works with you. 
If anyone has any information concerning the whereabouts of the paintings, please contact the Art Department at Saint Mary's at #4974, or call #4680, #4805 or #4130. 
Andrea P. Smith Kathleen M. Kase Kathleen A. R.e"'!y Ann Skelly Bridget Clarke 
Record sale 
problem revealed 
Dear Editor: 

The Student Union Record Sales Managers would like to express thelf gratitude to all those students who have patron· ized our sale. The response has 
been overwhelming and we thank yo_u. However, one problem has ansen that must be rectified . The catalogues used to order the albums are disappearing. In fact, 18 of30 catalogues are gone. We would appreciate it if those people who "borrowed" our catalogues would return them. These are es~ntial to our sale; and without them we incon­venience our customers. We would also like toemphasize that the sale ends today, Friday, February 23, at 5:00 p.m. So hurry on down to the Student Center and get your order in today. Thank you. 


1/!:,if:=
Tom Mavrath 

T d d al
he Stu ent Recor S e Managers. 
Letterofdefense 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Jim 
Houle's letter (Thursday, Febru­
ary 22) which accused me of 
pettiness and irresponsibility in 
an article I wrote for the February 
16 issue of Scholastic. 

As far as I can tell, the only 
justified complaint Mr. Houle has 
with my journalistic techniques 
~ests U\X)O a~ error in the 
mformauon I mcluded in my 
article, "Students Take the 
Stage." I interviewed several 
students who hold positions of 
responsibility within the Speech 
and Drama Department, and on 
three different occasions, I was 
told that the set Mr. Houle 
designed for the production of Ail 
Over cost $4000 to build. The day 
the article came out. Mark Amen­
ta, the director ofAll Over, called 
to tell me that my figures were 
wrong, and thar the total cost was 
just under $2000. I apologized to 
Mr. Amenta, and promtsed to 
print an official apology and 
retraction in the next issue of 
Scholastic once I had verified the 
new figures he had given me. 
I then investigated the sirua­
tion and discovered that I had 
indeed, made a mistake. ~ 
Sunday,Februaryl8,Ihappened 
to see Mr. Houle in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium, and I apologized for 
mr error, promising, again, to 
pnnt a retraction in the next issue 
of Scholastic. Mr. Houle quiedy 
accepted my apology. I was, 
therefore, very surpnsed to read 
the somewhat vicious letter Mr. 
Houle felt it necessary to write to 
The Ob~erver. 

Mr. Houle also expresses an­
ger over the fact that I did not 
personally interview him for the 
aforementioned article. On sev­
eral different occasions I tried to 
reach him, leaving requests that 
he return my calls. He never did, 
and because time was running 
~hon an~ I thoug~t I had enough 
1nformauon to wr1te the article I 
decided a personal interview ~ 
unnecessary. Other people men­
tioned in the article, such as 
~tty Hanrahan, Marie Birou, 
Lisa Turco, and Mark Harris 
were also not interviewed. My
failure to interview Mr. Houle 
was a matter of con~rvation ot 
time and space, not a result of 
any personal vendetta Mr. Houle 
app~ently feels I have for him. 
Fmally, I was most surprised 
by Mr. Houle's statement that I "besmirched" his name, const· dering the fact that I printed several very complimentary statements about his work. The mistake I made was an honest one, apl'arently resulting from · commurucations problems within the Speech and Drama Depart· ment. Mr. Houle knew I intend­ed to officially apologize and correct my mistake, yet he still felt it necessary to write a Jeter accusing me and Scholastic of irresponsibility and a ''general lack of care." Under the circum­stances, I think Mr. Houle's accusations are totally ground· 
less and uncalled for. 

Theresa Rebec~ 
_The Observer_ 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARDof reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wil~on as. ~ssible. E~it~rials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Spons Ediro~ ............ Ray O'Brien 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 optnton of a ma1onry of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calculi Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chn's Stewart 
&ard. Commentaries, opinions and Ex~cu~ive E~tor ...... Barb lAng henry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independem newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Edt tonal Edt tor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mills pe~ published by students of the Column space is available to all mem· Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cac~? Production Manager ...... Mardi Nevm Uruverstty of Notre Dame and Saint bers of. the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor ...... FJ/en Buddj Business Manager ........ John Tucker 
Mary's College. It does not necessarily expresston of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gale~ Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewi~ 



Features 
Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 10 


Incredible Music * Review 
Scoop.'s Police Alarn:t 
' 
1 
When Chris Stewart, the Observer'a Iillustrious Features Editor at.d resident ! philosophy aficionado, handed me "Out-­:Ianclos D'Amour," the debut album by 'Britain's latest rage, the PoltCe, a 
shudder of disappointment ran through 1 me. My first scan over the cover Irevealed all the trademarks typical of punk rock grcups. Devoid of any teal I mformation and stylized with an overex­1 posed photo of the deca~en~-appeari_ng ·threesome, the cover didn t pronuse 
much for its contents. 
"You've got to rave about these· guys or I'll have your head!,'' Chris decreed. 
" How can punk ever be any good? /'l 
protested. • . "] ust listen to the reeord,''' Chris responded with a smile. The depth of my ~espair was matched only by my i:lepresston. I am, after all, a 
kn d h · · · f unk d all the 

Tim Sullivan, 
roll band in years." ' 

"What, then are the Poltce?," I asked 
myself, and threw the record on the 
turntable. 

I was surprised. Guitarist Andy 
Summers, drummer Stewart Copeland, 
and a bass player simply named Sting, 
combine in a New Wave group with an 
impona1tl advantage--these guys can 
sing. Some of the harmonies .flow and 
P.ermutate so subtly that they sweep the ...,. 
listener through ·several mood changes 
before'he is aware of the tonal shifts. 
.This is unusuaL since most New Wave 
group$ tty tom;ijee a social ~t;;tte]Jlent by vocaliz~g.mech;micallyi but the ,Polipe a:re ·r:nustt::!a.9S wP.o let the so(lgs .• them; /. . selves make the s~tements, nOtthe way ···• they are performed. (" i ~ Though adef>t'1(~ally! the group is V?t. /
the I3ee Gees1 !l5 1$ (:Vtdenced by d~ew'\ <
b. · · · · · · if d kin{( t:Yl.. · l1. · · .··.·.·· · 

~!~~~~': '~:~1f:ua:f~iii' 
~~~:~=~~~~-~ed:i~~:e~:; ~1ra:·~~~~~~l?.~;~~~ 
my revi. until I could work up the ?f these; tu~e> ()P~e wfth r~ifi}ill,l. an~ .·.· 
!~~~:~;!fortitude to lis~~~ .to· .~d~~fi{ ~~fu~t~Jtf~~~Drlt i 

St!:~~r~~a~~~~~r~t~e~uft!o;t:~ . 
record. This was all it said: "The Poltce are not punk The Police are not disco. " 
Th!! PolzCe ate not heavy metal. 
The Police are' not power pop. . The Police are rust the bestrock and 
~iJrl>:~c~~;:!f; t~~~~~~;~~i:Jf: are< I thanked Chris when I returned .. the album, and I asked him to Jenne do the review on the second Police release. It 
!'ilLbe intere~o/11?; to see wila(~siv~.?
suc~ess does to die group. •··· ·.. ... ·•····· · 
Jesse Colin Young Steve Navarre 
;esse Colin Young has once aga~o assembled a fine album of neo-country­rock music that has come to be known as "Southern California Sound." Among other notables as Jackson Browne, Loda Roodstadt, John D. Souther, and the Eagles, ) esse Colin Young beautifully fuses acoustic guitar-based ballads and electric, hard-driving rockers into a fine and frankly, pleasant-sounding art form. 
Side One contains a full musical spectrum of California rock. The soft ballads are built on a calm yet strong surface on which Young can sail out his tales of lost loves and personal iotrospec­tioo. With such a foundation, he avoids the trap of allowing his songs to wander aimlessly as one occasionally finds on early Jackson Browne albums. Jesse Colin Y ouog has one of the finest voices in contemporary music and the lyrics flow with the strength and sweetness of a cool summer breeze. 
This side begins and ends with two hard-driving electric tunes. The lead riffs are simple but lettuce-crisp and are never overused as is the unfortunate case in many modern guitar-based rock and roll bands. However, if Side One of this album ts an excellent stan, then Side Two coofrrms this album as a classic. 
Head East Bites 
Mick Mancuso 
When a band puts out a live album there are generally two reasons why: either the band is such a dynamic performer live that the fans demand it or 
they are unable to come up with some new material and have to fulfill a recording contract. Most bands fall into the second category. Now I was never really too fond of Head East but when I was given their new album Head East "Live " to review I kind of hoped that maybe this group was the kind that had to be heard live to come across. Guess Again! 
Head East is a band that has existed in limbo all it's life: slightly more than a back-up band but never a true headliner. 
The ltve album takes these St. Louis boys out of limbo for the ftrst time and sends them back to the banks of the Big Muddy. with their tails between their legs. The music reminds one of a cover band that is trying to write its first On the sleeve, Side Two is entitled 
Amencan Dreams Suite, and each 
selection welds into the next to form an 
unio_terrupted 40 minutes of intense 
muste. 

The suite begins with "City Boy", a desperate tune dealing with the stifling conditions of growing up in the city. Jesse Colin Young's vocals can only be compared to the passionate cries of Dan Fogelberg in "Loose Ends", another song dealing with facing impossible odds (Dan Fogelberg, Netherlands, Epic Records). The concert moves on to the "dreams" of the sixties and a despon­dent look at the seventies~ The performance finishes with a questioning look at the future entitled ''What If We Stay''. Looking ahead is an appropriate finale to this panoramic view of the dreams of "the 60s generation" in general, and Jesse Colin Young 10 particular. We are not given any hints as to what happens "if we stay", the artist himself admittedly doesn't know. 
The suspense, however, is overpower­ing and I, for one, eagerly await the next Jesse Colin Young album in hopes of a glimpse of the answer. This album has recetved little publicity as of yet but in time will take its place among other musical classics of out time. 
originals. Why anyone would pay eight 
dollars to see this band is beyond me. 
This is the kind of stuff you pay a two 
dollar cover for and then listen to it while 
you're getting crocked with the gang on 
Friday night. How did this band ever get 
out of the club circuit and into the 
recording studio? Connections, I guess. 
The major problem with Head East is that they are rarely sharp. The songs are rife with arrangement conflicts. This is especially the case in "When I Get Ready, ' ' where the conflict between the guitar and the vocals is so obvious that it sounds like axe-mao Mike Somerville is trying to do a solo in the middle of a chorus. 
Despite all this negativism I will admit there are at least three good tracks on the two record set. ''Every Lttle Bit Of My Heart'' is probably the best number on the album. A tasty little blues flavored tune, this song shows a promise that just doesn't follow through on the rest of the material. Maybe the band should stick with this kind of stuff because it's the one song that carries 



Sad Cafe: Ole, I Say! 
A lot of bands that come out of England these days are either so radically different that their range of appeal is strictly limited or so faddish that the album sells and gains attention because it is "in" and not because it is really any good. Deciding to buck the trend, Sad Cafe has endeavored to come out with something different: totally enjoyable music. On their ftrst U. S. a "Misplaced Ideals," they display the sound and style of a band on its way to bigger and better things. 
The standout cut by far on the album is ''Restless,'' a tight little munber that almost sounds like Little Feat but better. The heavy drum line gives the surge and feeling of restlessness throughout the song that I;>erfectly compliments the lyrics. Leoru Zaksen milks his sax on a finely drawn solo that blends into lead 
man Ashley Mulford's reeling guitar

~?~~Come 

the aowns," another 
~<~t~t:TI~e~~oili~t o!Jf~~f ~~ 
band, only this time its keyboard mao 
~~e;~~r:r~~:J j[~h~~~t:ri~~~~eilie ~~~~swg~~i~h :e1~0:g;~a~~d i~fd~~~ 
so does an excellent job creating a sound that is amazingly tight and fluid. It amazes one that a band this good took so 
1­



IerryI eff Kicks A-­
Put on your Stetson, hunting jacket, and leather boots; hop in your '65 Chevy pick-up and drive down I-75, chattering incessantly on the CB to pass the time. Allow yourself to be dumped by the woman you love along the way. Turn off at the Cripple Creek Road Exit, deep in the Tennessee mountains and pull in to that ever-present little run-down tavern. Drop a few quarters in thed· ukebox and take a stool at the bar. Or er a fifth of jack Daniels with a shot glass and as you glance out the window at a lonely freight train passing through the hills in the distance, you are ready to fully exper­ience the music ofJerry Jeff Walker. 
His critics consider him a red-neck and his fans affectionately refer to him as a 'good-ole-boy'. While he is both of these, neither title does justice to the mao or his music. Most of the songs on this album are old country stand-bys and without exception, Jerry Jeffs arrange­ments are far smoother and steadier than the originals. There are common pitfalls that have marred a large ponioo of country music. Far too often country songs drift endlessly into a confused oblivion and are dominated by the all-too-often, ever-present wail and whine of a lap steel guitar. 
very well. The only other good songs on the album are "Since You Been Gone" and "Never Been Any Reason" which are also Head East's only well known songs. 
Why this band is popular (and I use the term lightly) only 10 the Midwest is obvious: being our own sons they are forced upon us! Ifyou happen to pick up the album you'll undoubtedly notice the prominently placed nymph in cut-offs on the cover; thats the only way to sell this stuff. If this band is ever going to make it big there are going to have to be some radical changes. Right now their future looks to be like Max Webster, Toronto's garbage rock kings that will eternally do back-up sets for better bands. It makes the headliner look better. 
Saily Oldfield: PeeeUuuuu 
This album can easily be summed up in two words: narcissistically boring. The songs, without exception, wander 
·Mick Mancuso 
A versatility of style is displayed on "Ru.n Home Girl," a mellow, easy going tune that stands ouc Here again, Emerson's smooth and lignr keyboard work is the mainstay. The tides switch on the next cut "Black Rose" where Mulford's guitar work once again takes over and gives a solo that accomplishes a fretted daze. The whole first side is highly enjoyable with each cut dis­playing it's own individuality. 
The flip side on this disc is a bit of a disappomtment. But then the work on side two grows on you if given the chance. ''Babylon'' with its ''Isley­esque" guitar work is probably the best track on the side. The rest of the side lacks the energy and the appeal of the ftrst side. This is especially the case on ''Feel like Dying'' which sounds like the kind of stuff you hear in restaurant 
cocktail lounges. 




~~t~f~:~~~~~Th~m~~,r:~~ 
~~~~ob;£~ ~~s;~~Pf~r c~~wd. bifl mixes the slightly mellow with some 
~~~~~:;~sh energetic rock that is sure for 
o~:'a~d{£ ~Y£~7'h ~~t~e;~~~~0~u~~ 
tastes has any foundation this group wili be big here in a short time. Enjoy this album now before WRBR makes you sick 
-==l=on=g=to=re=a=c=h=o=ur=s=h=o=r=es=.=::=:::=====o=f=t=.t=in=a=£=e=w=m=o=n=th=s=.=======l 
This album deftly avoids these subtle traps. The ballads are solidly done and Jerry Jeff never lets them get out of control. Could anyone seriously believe 
that good-ole Jerry Jeff would let us down? 
"Lone Wolf' and "Boogie Mama" are solid rock and roll tunes with guitar riffs that make so-called rockers like Foreigner, REO Speedwagon and Nazereth (to name a few) sound like children playing JVith toys by compari­son. 
Some things never change. I get the feeling that tf the world is ravaged by nuclear war, ·and if the Montreal Canadiens don't make the Stanley Cup playoffs, and if Richard Nixon is appointed to the Supreme Coun, Jerry J effWalker will still be sitting in a little, broken-down tavern somewhere in the Tennessee mountains drinking J ~ck Daniels and singing enchanting songs of lonely freight yards, lost love, and the ftckle Texas weather. Even the most die-hard rock and roller will ftnd this album enjoyable, and why not. Who could ever dislike good-old Jerry Jeff? 
Steve Navarre 
here and there and never seem to end. There is little distinction between the various tunes. They melt incoherently into continuous three-chord acoustic guitar patterns with Sally Oldfteld's angelic voice dancing aimlessly through­out. Her voice is sweet and high-pitched but lacks the strength to be outstanding. 
The irony is that throughout the album, she gives the impression of trying to state something deep and significant. The LP reeks of mystical metaphors and references to Tolkien's Lordofthe Rings. Sally even informs us of Allah's message to her to be a musician and to s!ng his praises or something to that effect. Hallelujah! Hosannas of Mediocrity! 
The problem with all this pseudo­symbolic poetry is that the listener never finds out what her point or message is. The result is that the whole album is horribly trite and a mockery of truly deep and introspective music. 
When listenin~ to Water Bearer, I could not help thinking of Paul Simon's words: 
People talking without speaking ... 

... the Sounds of Silence. I had to make a decision between 
silence and Sally Oldfteld, Silence would truly be Golden. This LP is filled with an air of haughty spiritual superiority and I'm afraid Water Bearer is so heavenly­
minded it is of no earthly good. 

jrhe Observer -Features Friday February 2 3, 1979 -page 11 
Fartn-workers: Have You Noticed Thetn ?AI£ d s 
If you ever happen ro be driving through Texas dunng the month of April, don't be surprised if you happen to make the wrong turn off the highway and end up in what looks like a ghost town. You won't ·see any children playing in the streets and, the small house..s that rest on post foundations will have all of the windows covered with sheets of plywood, but I can assure you, you are not in a ghost town. 
Where are all the people then? Chances are you might have passed them on the way down. Let me see if I can help you to recall. Do you remember that blue pick-up truck with the camper that was having a flat fixed at the gas station in Bowling Green, Ohio? Remember all those little kids that were standing around the Coca-Cola machine? Well, they live and play in that section of town that you accidently stumbled upon. 
Or if you didn't see the family in the blue pick-up, maybe you remember seeing the red Ford station wagon that was laying upside down in the ditch just outside Cairo, Illinois? The family that was riding in that station wagon used to live in one of those boarded up houses. Used to. 
Who are these families and what are they doing so far away from home? These people are the farmworkers. Every year they come by thethousandsto Ohio, Michigan, Minnesota, Indiana and other scates. They come in search of farmwork. When they leave in April, they have to take their kids out of school so that they too can help with the work. 
Now if you don't know what the life of a migrant farm worker is like, I want you to stop reading this article for a minute and think. Ask yourself, what kind of job requires that children must work along­side their parents? What kind of job requires a rerson to board up their house and trave thousands of miles? 
If you're smart, and you probably are or else you wouldn't be attending the University of Notre Dame, you know that the answer to the tirst question is, whatever kind of job it might be, it must not pay very much money. The answer to the second question is logically doesn't really exist in an economic sense because you end up having to ask the question, why would anybody wnat to travel thousands of miles to work a job that doesn't pay very much? I guess you could say thilt the answer to this second question is, "die will to survive." When you wam to "live badly enough, you'll do any kind of work, anywhere at anytime, in order to be able to eat. Some people will go to great extremes when they want some­thing badly enough. Those of us who have ever played football know what this is all about. 
In the case of the farmworker, though, the real question is not why he travels all over the country w.th his family, but rather, why does he earn so little, sometimes even less than the minimum wage? This is where the analysis becomes very interesting because as we observe the behavior of the farmworker and the grower, we find that the reason the farmworker doesn't make enough money is because he isn't paid enough money. Now that might be a compli­cated analysis for an economics graduate student, but even a farmworker will arrive at the same conclusion. This only leads us back to the question of why the farmworker is paid so little. Now don't go away on me. I'll only keep you a little longer. Let me tell you a short story and maybe you will understand why the farmworker earns so little. 
I know a grower in California who puts a radio announcement on the SJ?anish language radio station each year Within a 400 m1le radius of his ranch. He announces that he has 300 jobs paying $2.60 and hour and that the work starts 
· · 

next week. When the farmworkers hear this, they begin making plans and start moving in cars towards the growers ranch. · 
What enJs up happening is that 500 or 600 people start showing up for what in reality are only 175 jobs. (The airlines employ a version of this trick-only it's called overbooking a flight.) When the grower realizes how many interest~d potential employees have responded to nis radio announcement, he then makes another announcement. Instead of $2.60 an hour, he can only pay $2.35 an hour. 
Of course the farmworkers become . furious at the grower, but what can they do? Many will leave and go lookfor wotk that pays more. But there are those in the crowd who spend their last few dollars on gas to get to the ranch where they are and they can't afford to leave. In fact, they can't afford not to work. This is one of the many reasons why the farmworker ends up feeding America and not himself. 
But things have been changing. In California, except for the above grow<~r, the farmworker. has made tremendous strides to improve his condition. Back in 1962 in Delano, California, a short man with black hair and khaki pants started knocking on doors of farmworkers houses. He knocked on doors for three years as he slowly organized what would one day be an association that would stand up for farmworkers. When he told people what he was doing they would sometimes close the door in his face. They knew that others had tried before only to result in failure. Even the growers did not take him seriously. Even liberal people who like the idea didn't give it much hope. The odds were against organizing farmworkers. They were unorganizable. 
But that was 17 years ago. Today Cesar Chavez has built the most success­ful farmwoker union in the history of the 
Jlens,l?a~les,lJru~s 

'D1e phone rang three times before I was ordered to answer it. I knew who it was and why he had called. His purpose was twofold: of course, he needed the reassurance of my voice, presumably to keey his (my?) mind at ease; but, equally as tmportant, (or so it &eems now, as I 
.,. pomificate upon the lifeless view from my flat; the drab panorama can trans­form itself into painful visages from the recent past, those of people who I thought understood--at least understood, by God--and those of the one I always knew didn't understand, but came. to realize they were not to blame) to deliver a bittersweet message from the past that he thought would cause a feeling of remorse, or, even, distaste towards those prehistoric times. His concern (a word I must substitute for love in this case, because, I think,_ concern was the overriding emotion that had made him call) was evident in his tone, as well as his facial expressions, which I could see as clearly as if we stood face-to-face. Our talk became a pleasant one, at times even bordering on commitment, which to me is a most valuable commodity. I thanked him for calling and thought when our paths might cross again. My sharp cynicism (inherited, bur something I am hardly ashamed of) led me to believe that we would meet again only in another form. My mind focused on his soft image until my reverie was broken, oh, I'd estimate ten minutes later (but one loses track of time when his brain is mush, as mine must have been) by the knock that was so familiar, and, by now, reassuring. Phil was usually clutch; serru-clutcb chis time as we practiced the ancient ritual of bartering. Phil knew he was always welcome to stay; he wanted to sray, and I wan red him to stay. He was 
the best roller I had ever inet; most people needed a dollar bill or a machine, but Phil's jays were nearly perfect and almost as thick as one of Castro's cigars. This was Monday, and on Mondays we 
, 
did up two doobies, watched cartodhs til 
4:00 (or, if a really good movie was one, like three or four weeks ago when ChannelS showed "Mystery of the Black Room", we'd watch that) and '!:hen I'd prepare a cold dinner, many times serving boloJ;tna sandwiches (every other week Phil would ask ''How the hell can you put mayonaisse on bologna?"), a piece of fresh fruit, a glass of milk for myself, two (sometimes more)' Schaeffer's for Phtl (Phil practiced a "hands-off" policy towards my Miller; be explained that be had been drinking "the one beer to have when you're having more than one'' from the day his older brother had let him shoot hoop with the guys and bought him a six·pack afterwards) and a Kool for Phil before he left. 
Oh, some nights I'd go out to the bar or walk down to the playground, even getting into a game occasionally, but tonight is most typical; l vegetate at my desk , trying to full out words from the tangled mass o protoplasm inside my head; words that swim elusively from top to bonom and side to side. lt's a toughJ' ob putting out, a weekly under• groun newspaer (who the hell reads the damn thing anyway except my stoned friends and pimp friends and lisa, the one that, I suppose, keeps me going·· somehow; she comes over on Friday and Saturday, and usually we'll go to a movie Saturday night···Lisa, who has yet to allow me to taste her delicious flC)lden fruit, but who tantalizes me until my entire structure tingles-·but whe, when will the commitment be made? I'm ready to make it. 
Lisa's contribution to "The People's Plaint'' is more more sisnificant than mine. She does all the des1gn and layout but first she is an artist--for our paper, a cartoonist--a chore she takes to heart to produce the caustic, biting, muckraking strips around. Two weeks ago spe nailed a Congressman to the wall--and her expose on the illegal contributions be ;iCcepted has disgraced him and may 

~ 
_ 
Mike Henry 

lead to a prison term. Nobody does it better than my bal:?y.
..•.........•...................... 
Phil never comes over on Wednesdays, so the familiar knock startled me, He barged in without an invite (I never·keep the door locked, mainly because I lost the key during some wasted stupor, and, anyway, Phil has informed our fellow slum mates that my place is off limits) and delivered the blow that literaUv brought me to my knees. ' 

· ·Gabriel blew his horn yesterday. He 
calledat 12:42 p.m. (I was expecting it 
and recorded the time on my hand) and 
after his ritUalistic spiel conce.ming my 
situation, he sounded my death knell. 
''I'm getting married next week," be enthused as apprehension lodged itself in the pit of my stomach. ''I couldn't believe it when she got here. She just said she was tired of her job-·she was working for some small newspaper, see··and she wanted to come home. Aren't you happy for us? You've got to visit us some time and meet her." I asked her name because l bad to knw--and the walls carrie tumbling down. 
I walked with a purpose, something I 

hfid.lacked all my life, I guess, ?t.at least stnce I was able to make dectstons for myself. As l otde; ·ed what I needed, I wondered why they were allowed to sdJ such items over the counter. When I got back, I swallowed every damn pill in the whole fucking bottle. They weren't going to stop me from sleeping tonite. 
''When did she leave?" I cried out in 

'hurt and anger. Usa had taken an early plane out of the city, telling only her mom, and the frantic wo.ma.O called Phil to try to stop her. But it had been too late. I had no idea where she might have gone·-she had said nothing, everything seemed to beautiful, -so perfect--! can't sleep for worry, selfish, selfish worry·· I'll drug myself to sleep tonight. 
re o antos 
United States. He literally defied the "experts". And today, instead of him havms to plead and convince people ~-: orga~me and help the farmworker, Presidents and Governors call upon him for help. 
· Presently, under union contract farm­
workers earn $3.40 an hour. Under 
union contract, they have a health and 
hospitalization plan and under union 
contract the growers are not permitted to 
use certain chemicals that are very 
dangerous. They also have their own 
credit union. These arc just some of the 
benefits that farmworkers now enjoy 
under union contract. 
But . despite all of this pro~ress in California, the farmworkers 10 other states continue to live under the whims and wishes of the growers. But it's too late. The example has been set by Cesar Chavez and the United Farmworkers Union of America and now other farmworkers have heard what can be done when people a~·e organized and they too have begun to move. 
In Texas, the 1FW (fexas Farm­workers Union) is currently involved in organizing activity in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas. In Arizona the farmworkers are chllenging the powerful Arizona ranchers. And next door to us in O~io, the Farm. Labo~ Organizing Com­rruttee (FLOC), IS wag10g a stru~gle with the tomato industry. As you rrught have heard l~st wee~, a major consumer boycott IS currently under way against the .Campbells Soup and Libby's com­panies. 
There will be various activities con­ducted here at Notre Dame m the following months on behalf of the farmworkers. All that is asked is your moral support and considerate attention. If you have the time and would like to get involved with the farmworkers, contact: Mary Hawley 1Q)-6S'57 Tim Heaty 2.33-5256 
Anne l iube, :::88·9~ 7l) 

Troy Schofl · 
God Is Snow 
Being a Florida boy at heart and in spirit, I hardly knew what a shoe was until I came to Notre Dame. Oh, for sure, I wore shoes to high school. However, once that blasted bell rang, I could hardly wait until I was safely tucked into the confines of my car where the shoes vanished and my feet were liberated once again. 
I never wore shoes in Florida unless it was an absolute necessity, and, even then, did so ~rudgingly. I felt (as the Indians did 10 general) that the sole (sorry!) way to communicate with the natural environment surrounding me took place througha sensory process which for me included beach sand apssing between my toes and St. Au~ustine turf cushioning my steps whde I was jogging. Then before I knew it, I had taken a quantum jump in the field of podiatry under the tutelage of Thorn McAnn. 
Now to the point of my story, I arrived at Notre Dame barefoot, tanned, and in relatively good shape. I have been at Notre Dame for approxiamtely five out of the last six months. During that period, I have been forced to live in boots, I have lost my Coppertone tan, and I huff and puff everywhere I go out of exhaustion. I look for the reasons why, and my search extends no further than a perfuncory glance out my tenth-story window. It's the snow 
It is the same snow that I left in December that's back to haunt me in February. And perhaps in March. And, for that matter, maybe even April. If it melts, then it is too soon re,Piaced by fresh snow. The monotony IS unbear­able. Yes, that's it! The damn monotony of it all more than the cold, wind, or even the chill factor. The endless repetition of day after day with no change predicted in the forcast or from yesterday. 
I ·may be suffering from what you Northerners affectionately call "Spring Fever.'' This sta~e will/ass hopefully. In the meantime It woul be nice if Old Man Winter conld take a hint from Southern hospitality and give a good ole boy a fighting chance. Can't wait till spring break. 

-------~-~-~--~--~----------­
• Observer -Features Friday, February 23, 1979­




Letters o A Lonely God 
r 
I_ 



Father Robert Griffin _'Pops' For A Day 
This noontime, as I was leaving the for a day'' to a shag-headed philosopher brooding, bearded beatnik with preten­become ordained as a pries~. you table where I had been e~ting lunch with named Ron, because, on this Junior sions to mysticism (do my images date knew, would love you forever the some students in the caft·teria, a young Parent's weekend, I am full of musin~ me?), or into a young lady, munching Church is in business until the end of man called down to mt "So long, on what it must mean to be somebody s sunflowers seeds and looking unisexual, time. Your only risk was whether you Pope;." I wasn't sure I hall heard him Pop (not "Pops", you notice, because with the politics ofJoan of Arc flowing could re~ faithful; betrayal could ri_ght:' that's a different word, as described through her veins, I expect that parents come only if you made the choice. 
· "What did you say?" I said. above.) Parents, for example, know so have the genetic insights as a grace Loneliness, though predictable, didn't He said it again: "So long, Pops," and much about their children ... not every­from God to understand the mooclS that seem like much ofa problem. I wonder if he gave me a wide grin. thing, of course, because every life young energies adopt as a lifestyle. there are many priests today who, after I went off, as pleased as though I had guards a bit of the mystery that has no As for the bachelor known as Pops, nearly twenty-five years, have never felt been given an unexpected gift. ''How words. God tells each one of us a having neither the experiences nor the betrayed by the Church as it exists in its nice," I thought; he called me Pop~." different part of the cosmic secret. graces of state of a parent, he can only Human Element? I wonder if for those Nobody has ever called me Pofs before; Parents sunply know things: when a spend four years making guesses in an priests as for me, the loneiiness has probably nobody will ever cal me Pops child will laugh, or dance, or groan, or adventure called ministry. Using ex­not been most poignant in the minister­again. But for a single moment, for a grieve. They can, with accuracy, intuit perience he has heard about from last ies when we played father to children student in the midst of his lunch, I was the moods of the mind when a child year's students, some eternal truths, wh? were ~ever begotten by us, or laid Pops. Nothing else he could have said as doubts or dreams. They can estimate and some personal insights he has tested as tnfants tn our arms to be cherished praise or compliment could have given the pain; they can comfort the fear. for worth, he predicts success or warns into growth, as they were cherished into me such pleasure. They can chensh the soul's love and the of the ruins that can come to a life, birth, by love that makes us God-like in 
I understand how limited in its heart's yearning; they can be reverent at always fearing he may be out of touch the communication of existence? overtones the word "Pops" really is. the experiences where God's life and the with today's young adults: bright, As a priest, I deal in mysteries; but all "Pops" is the name, in a movie of the child's life touch. I suspect that when a sensitive, and in a hurry for experience, my mysteries belong to the Church. A Fomes, by which Edward G. Robinson father says: ''I don't know what's gotten not realizing they will never be as chil.d. I think, must be, to its parents, calls the old newspaper vendor with the into my kid,'' what he really means is: beautiful again. the~ own personal mystery: in the child, blind dog. It's the way the hoofers, in a "I've gotten out of touch with the young I hope the parents who are visiting the thetr love has become life with an Busby. Berkley musical, address the life that I should understand like another campus feel blessed by their children. identity of its own, and a name buy doorman who guards them from the: part of myself.'' I suspect that when a As a priest who has been blessed as a which tt is called, and chubby fists and a 
stage-door Johnnies. "Pops" is an old mother says: "I raised this youngster, substttute parent, I know that there are face, with the earth as its inheritance, gaffer whom you're very fond of and but being with him (or her) is like being sadder moOds that a father can have. and a heaven that awaits its coming. I respect, not because he is your own in the company of a stranger,'' she is Grief is sometimes a father's mood, as could enjoy a mystery, neither dogma personal father, but because he's every­really confessing: ''I planted chrysanthe­well as pity or fear, or sometimes, nor sacrament, that belongs so personal­body's father. To be called Pops is not mums, but I have ratsed an oak tree. I though rarely, shame. Parents must ly to me. I would have loved being a really to be adoptedas a parent, but it's had hoped ior an eagle, but I'm left with pray for angels to keep the night watch father. I'm not sorry that I became a an affectionate word that I'll settle for. a snail. '' Do not snails have a loveliness ~ainst disasters. They must hope for all priest, but it surprised me how tickled I On a gray day, in a lean season, being in creation special to themselves? The wmds to be as gentle as the wind kindly felt today when, for a once and only called Pops is the happiest greeting I least that can be said of snails is that tempered to the shorn lamb's naked­time, a student, showing me my loneli­know of. they are gentle. ness. ness, had the graceful manners to call 
I mention my pleasure in being ''Pops Even when a child grows into a I don't think it took much courage to me Pops. 
'You Zomoie. Be Born Again my Friend' 

Dave Gill --Becker /Fagen 
''Fluorocarbons: Unfinished Spn'ng's Awakening; March 2, 3,. 8
PBS (Channel 34) Love Bug; Boiler House Flix II.
Agenda"; March 1, 10:30 pm. A hard pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. I hope the 
Starring Dean Jones, Buddy Hackett.
look at how fluorocarbon emissions from ND/SMC Theater can influence some­
"Beethoven SpeciiJI": February 25, 4 
air conditions, industrial processes and body important around here so thepm. Beethoven's most famous sym­refrigerators affect the earth's ozone awakening will not only be on stage, butphony~ the Fifth, is performed by the layer. Current evidence introduced in also in this South Bend weather.
Detrotte Symphony Orchestra with con­
the documentary suggests that car air Directed by Mark Amenta.
ducto Antal Dorati. Prior to the conditioners contribute to the rise in skin performance, Dorati discusses the flow 
cancer. Sportsand transition of the movements with 
host E.G. Marshall. 
Performance Of!Campus 
Wrestling; Mid-We-Jt Regionals; ACC Pit. February 24, 25. , 

Vegetable Buddies: This week-­Basketball (men); ND vs LaSalle.
Mama's Pride, a rock and roll band from February 24, 8 pm. ACC
St. Lous, February 23, 24, $2.50; Harry ....~:.. 
Waller, folk/novelty music, February 28, 
Basketball (men); ND vs East
free! 

Carolina; February 26, 8 pm. ACC. Blackstone Magic Show; February 23, 
Starring Ellen Burstyn, Alan Aida. 1979 Black Cultural Ans Festzval;8:30 pm. February 24, 2, 8:30 pm. 
February 25--Music: ''Gospel Soul onMoms Civic Auditorium. Tickets are $9, Ice Castles; Forum n. Starring Robbie Sunday' I; Library Auditorium, 7 pm.
$7.50, $4, $3. Call 282-2150 for more 
Benson. February 26--Sports: Ms. Wtlma more information. 
Rudolph; Library Auditorium, 7 pm. Every Which Way But Loose; Forum February 27--Performing Arts: Ms.
"Advocates"; February 25, 6 pm. 
lll. Starring Clint Eastwood. Vinnie Burrows, "Walk TogetherMarilyn Berger moderates a mock-trial Children", St. Mary's Little Theater,debate on whether states should require Superman; Town & Country I. 7:30 pm. February 28--Politics: Thea minimum competency test for high Starring Christopher Reeve, Margot State of the Mrican Revolution" withschool ~raduation. Advocates arguing 
the toptc are Lew Crampton (pro) and 
Kidder. Mr. Bob Brown, United States, Dr. Roosevelt Williams, Carribean, Mr.
Renault Robinson (con). 
Richard Pryor, In Concert; Town & Lamine Jahnnga, Mrica. March 2-­Country ll. Student 'Talent; Library Auditorium, 7
''Paul jacobs and the Nuclear Gang''; 
pm. March 3--Civil Rights; Dr.
February 25, 8 pm. A documentary The Warriors; Scottsdale: Benjamin Hooks,; Washington Hall, 3exploring the hazards of long-range pm.
exposure to low-level radiation. Inter­Halloween; River Park. 
views with the late journalist Paul Jacobs 
are featured. Jacobs covered the issue 
Ann Karenina; March 2, 8 pm. IUSB
of low-level radiation since the 1950s Note: Due to circumstances within my
Little Theatre. $1.

when above ground testing began. control, I will soon be retiring from the columnist business. Ifanyone should or

The Outlaws; March 2, 8 pm. Morris 
would like to take over this honorableCivic Auditorium. Tickets are $6.50 and 
Movie On Campus task, please contact me or Chris Stewart.
$7.50. 

Tennis Party; February 23, 7-11 pm. 
The Godfather; February 28, March
South Bend Racquet Club. ·Food, wine, 1; 7, 10 pm. EngineerinB Auditorium. 
beer. All you can drink. $7. Call Starring Marlon Brando, James Caan, AI234-1996 or 287-3804 for tickets. 
Pacino. Mario Puzo's novel and screen­play about everyday life of a mobster. I
Movies Off Campus 

never saw the movie in the theatre, but it wasn't too bad on the telly. 
Since the ftlms in the South Bend area 
"Austz'n City Limits"; February 26, 10 
haven't changed in several weeks, I'll
pm. The best of soul and blues wtth New Performance
withold the usual comment.
Orleans' premiere group, the Neville 
Brothers. Singer Lightnin' Hopkins and 
Animal House; Boiler House Flix I. National Theater of the Deaf;
barrelhouse pianist Robert Shaw per­February 26, 8 pm. Washington Hall.
Starring John Belushi.

form music they helped invent. 


_____,._...,____________ 
-------------~--------i 
The Observer Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 13 
Heroes Anonymous Pat O'Leary 
Edu;ard Cronin: Teacher With A Bizarre Tu;ist 
DrEdward Cronin, associatefro~essor in the General Program o Uberal Studies has certainJy acquired more than the usual number of nicknames from his students during his thirty years at Notre Dame. To some G.P.'ers, who are all too familiar with his high academic standards, Professor Cronin is the infamous "B-" Cronin; to others, who have found his private consultations of ''confessions' ' to be particularly helpful, he is "Father" Cr:o~; and to many veteran G.P.'er, he 1s stmply and 
affectionately known as "Doc. " 
To all of his students in G.P., Professor Cronin is someone very spec­ial. He is a dedicated teacher, one who is sincerely interested in his students' learning. "Once I get you in one of my 
classes, you are mine forever, "Profes­sor Croom often says. And he means it. 
He is articulate, outgoing, and refreshingly witty, a master of the metaphor and the analogy.. Professor Croom brio~ to each class his tremend­ous sense of humor, plus his love or learning. "We are all teachers," he likes to point out, "We all learn from each other. '' 
Dr. Cronin reserves his weekday after­noons to assist his students in their writing. He encour~ges his Sf':'den~s. to come to his office to 1ron out the1r wntmg difficulties--to come to "confession" as he calls it. His students' papers are usually graded and returned to them by 
the next class day. Dr. Cronin recalls that when he taught at the University of Minnesota in the early' 40's, he was even more prompt in returning his ~tudents work: ''I used to take twO shoppmg bags filled with my students' themes home with me on Fridar,, and have them graded by Monday. ' 


Professor Cronin's enthusiasm for teaching has not gone. unnoticed ~y either his students or his colleagues m Arts and Letters. For his 25th teaching anniversary at Notre Dame, 60 or so of his students, many of them former ones, held a dinner in his honor. Two years 
ago, Dr. Cronin was awarded the Fr. Sheedy Award, which is given each year to a faculty mc;mber in Arts and Letters 
10 

Jr. Parents Neurosis •·····I~• .~i\~;~t:.~~~~~:11;·1:1~rl~
''Oh, God!*.It's 
When campus life is examined, . it apJ'ears fairly obvious that all our ~ven~ alli:l activities are designed by the .· administration to alleviate our potential boredom, lest we should do an)ithing rash in the absence of anything dse to do. Thus, they shower us with football ~s, Mardi GrM, basket~! <giUDes and An 'fostal, hoping to keep us out of the trouble. that we would inevirably get ourselves mto. The O® thing that bothers these officials is the snow; they have yet to find a way to get rid of the 
snow. 
People get' really bored when tb.ere is ~·• lot of snow on the ground1 and the 
univ~~ity SCtS Scat~d. This lS ,-by ·~h¢·······
admtnastrauon offictals search hlgh and t. 
low for the most boring ao<i. poten?ally 
dangerous weekend, ana then; f~lt 
to lie the last weekend in Febnlat}\ · 
declare it to be, with .much p<:>mp an~ 
cir<"umstance,Junior Parent_$' Wee~end; 
to the continued amazement of out 
loving parents. They give it to the 
juniors because the freshmen just got 
h(·re the sophomores don't even know 
the my around, and the seniors are 
almost out. Juniors are a bit desperate, 
being so close and yet so far, and the 
admmistration hopes that sendi~ 
mommy and daddy out here will pru;ity 
us. 
So this works out OK for us juniprs, 
but where does it leave our parents? I mean, it's supposed to be the parent'$ weekend, not ours, since we hop up all ·the other ones. How would you like to be . invited ro drive 700 miles in the snow to stay in some cold motel and not even get a football ticket out of the whole thing? Most parents, I suspect, are not too thrilled about winning this weekend; its almost like winning the booby prite. If we really wanted to give them a weekend, why not give them the USC 
weekend? 
This Junior Parents' Weekend is also 
causing a great deal of anxiety in the 
dorms. People are changing theit 
lifestyles all over. My roommate went 
out and bought a razor for the first time 
since freslurian year. He sent his clothes 
down to the laundry so he'll have some 
dean shirts for his mom. His si..<>tet is 
giving him lessons in how to make a ~· 
And I'm teaching him bow to knot a ue, 
an article of clotliing he's been using to 
keep his car trunk shut. 
Others are worse. John, who lives on the floor below roe, cried when he recycled his year long coUec?on tlf.beer cans. He bad to be resttatntd wnh .~...· 
At 62 Professor Cronin is the grand­father ~f the General Program. He is the oldest member of the G.P. faculty, as well as the only remaining charter member of the program, founded in 1950. He is quite a colorful fellow too, with his distinct Irish-looking face, tweed jacket and ~ipe. He is, as he often says one who ' has been around the block. '' He is married with six children and eight grandchildren:<'All imbued with Notre Dame, Catholiasm, and the Democratic Party,'' Professor Cronin 
says with a smile. 
On his office door, among the several cartoons and !lewspaper clipp~ngs, hangs a short Jpassage from Isruah: "The Lord has given me a disciple's tongue. So that I may know how to re.(>ly to the wearied he provides me With speech." How appropriate, too. 
Professor Cronin orchestrates class discussion with all the skill and sen­sitivity of a symph~ny c~nductor. ~e elicits student parnc1pauon, and tles points together beautifully. Notetaking IS discouraged in his classes. I:Ie prefer;s active partlci.(>ation. Dr. Cronm and his students "pomt things out together." 
There is a bit of the actor about Dr. Cronin, as well as a touch of the gadfly. His. wit and humor are spontaneous. He kids and teases his students frequently, singlesthem out, or pulls all their leES at once. Cronin's classes are rarely dull. 
"Does anyone know what a tautology is?' ' he asks about the room, while pouring a cup of tea from his silver thermos. "Well, a tautology is a phrase that is redundant,'' Cronin says, picking up his J?ipe, "like 'a senile old man.' or 'two twms' or a 'handsome Irishman 

Emphasizing dear, concise writing to the 20 or so students in his Drama class, Profe5sor Cronin assens, ''There is no better way of stating your love for someone than the simple 'I love you.' That's clear and concase. God did it r,reny well once, yotAcnowNhen he said, 
I am who I am;' that's pretty good, hmmm? Yes, that's not bad," he says thoughtfully•, scratching his chin, then adds mischievously, "thought I would have stuck with just 'I am.' '' 
Laughter ensues. His point has been made.Another Croninism. 
"You have to make your subject lively to yourself, otherwise it won't be to Y?ur students,'' say Professor Croom, explaining his lively style ofteaching. "I think a teacher should be strongly grounded in his subject matter, and have some experience on the st~e so as to have a feel for an audience.' 
'• A teacher like a streetcar conductor or a bartend~r, must enjoy people in order to be a good one," Dr. Cronin adds. 
Dr. Cronin has had a "feel" for his audience for a long time now. At 23, he taught his f~t course--B~iness. Eng­lish--at a busmess school 10 Chicago, after earning his English degree at Notre Dame. Before returning to Notre Dame in 1949, he taught at the University of Minnesota where he received his PhD in English, and where ·he also met his wife. 
"I consider myself an ~emely successful man '' Professor Cronm says, "Ever since I' was eight years old, I wanted to come to Notre Dame, and I did. After I graduated from here, I wanted to teach here, and I have. Yes, I think I have been successful." 
Political Hamsterism 

Richard Nixon Retums 
I encourage everyone and anyone to talk on a one-to-one basis with your candidates for hall president, vice-presi­dent, etc. You wouldn't believe the frightening truths you can read between the lines Of their unprepared responses to your questions. 
After we assume that they all want to win, there are generally two types of candidates in these elections. The first go into the campai~ saying to them­selves •'What prormses are sonna get me votes?" The frame of nund of the second is this: "I must persevere with my amply-bestowed energies to make my hall the most just, wonderful dorm at this fme University. '' 
Which do you think is best? The first r.1ay be more realistic, ready to go o: . and face that grim, dog-eat-dog world of ours and come out alive. The mortality rate ofhall presidents is quite high. On the other hand, you might say the second type is too timid and naive, but remember what happens to Humble, Lovable Shoeshine Boy. 
You have to decide for yourself which you'd rather see leading your hall, but I can tell you how to discern one from the other. There are certain 9.uestions to be asked the answers to which will reveal the sincerity, or lack of it, of the candidate. 
Question #1: If jewel thieves and robbers were to attack the hall during the wee hours of the night to loot, ra~, pilla~e and burn, what would you, as presrdent, do? 
The answer ofthe first would be to say this: "I would go straight to your room to alert you of your imminent danger. I would see to it that your rights would be preserved, and allow you to .si~ a petition to be presented to ~e.~s, asking them to please stop lt. Though on the surface this seems OK, look at it more closely. Who would pre~ent this petition? How would your nghts be preserved? These questions must be answered. 
The second response would be: "I'd run to a phone booth, cause it to explode, Appear then in leotards, and save my_ abode. I'd knock out the sinister riff-raff and cads, Save sweet Polly Purebread and the rest of the lads. 
Joe Ryan 
Question #2: What makes you think 

you could do a good job? 
Answer (#1): "I've grown very 

concerned about certain issues on cam­
pus, and, I dunno, I ~ess I just think I 
could do a good job.' 
Answer (#2): 

As humble and quiet you know melbest, 
But for justice and truth is my forelllOSt 
~uest. 
I U work for the people to win their 
support, 
The process of fairness ru never abon. 
Question #3: What steps would you 

take to improve conditions within the 
dorm? 
Answer (#1): Oh, yeah--good ques­

tion. I'm glad you asked it. First off, I'd 
get rid ofall unfair rules and regulations 
that now exist. That means party rules, 
drug and alcohol restrictions, and what­
ever else I can think of. '' 
Answer (#2): The community's feelings I'd consider, of course, But what's best for them is my guiding force. I'll change onJy what is unjust to my 
peers · h ds d' ·· 
By knocking some ea an msplrlOg great fears. Question #4: How would you describe yourself to others? 
Answer (#1): "I would say that I am hard-working, thoughtful and demo­cratic, and will do what everybody wants, somehow. 
Answer (#2): . In times of peace, no danger near, I walk around with my kit of gear. What I do till crime does occur Is shine shoes, bite quarters and say 'Thank you, sir.' I'm like this till a foe I must beat; Mr-metamorphosis is then complete. Not bird, nor plane, nor even frog-­It's little old me, Underdog. 
Which reminds me of the Quiz­question-of-the-day: What are the words to the 'Underdog' theme song? If you know, send the answer to the Features Department. First prize: heart-felt thanks, hearty handshake, hard slap on the back. 
Hint: the first line is ooooh-wah­ooooh-wah-ooooh.... 


-----~-~--­

----------------~-~---­
The Observer Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 14 
Researchers prepare conference 

byJim Sezfort 

The Less Developed Countries Conference will take place March 2-4 in the Center for Continuing Education. Members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­munity are invited to attend. 
The original title of the con­ference was the Third World Conference. However, the re­search group preparing the con­ference discovered that there are countries in even worse straits than those commonly referred to as the Third World. The idea of ''less developed'' was adopted to 
·Pizza and other Good Ihings 
CORNEROFGRAPEROAD 
&CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
11-11 MONDAY-THURSDAY 
11-1 AM FRIDAY &SATURDAY 
12-11 SUNDAY 
TELEPHONE 277-5300 
"A NOBLE IDEA ... 
PARTY WITH PIZZA ! ! " 1----------COUPON --------­
1 $1. 00 OFF · I
I I
ON ANY LARGE SICILIAN PIZZA 
~!:!~~~~~~~~~!.'!..--2~!.~~lR!~3~~~J 
·----------• COUPON •
----------·I
I .PITCHER OF BEER $1.50 I 
I I 
1 WITH ANY LARGE SICILIAN PIZZA OR I I 16':or 20" HAND TOSSED PIZZA 
I 

IONE COUPON PER ORDER OFFER EXPIRES 3/1/791. 
emphasize the extent of under­development in the world. A 
The conference has three pn­mary goals : (1) to educate as many ·people as possible about the issues concerning less de­veloped countries, (2) to present ways of intelligently analyzing and acting on the issues, and (3) to give students here and else­where the opportunity to partici­pate in discussion on the pro­gress, or lack of it, in the area of social justice. 
Conference speakers will in­clude Denis Goulet, a senior fellow on the Overseas Develop­ment Council and an expen on the plight of less developed countries in Asia, Mrica, and Latin America. Author of The Cruel Choice, Toward a New Moral Order, and Uncertain Pro­mise, he will discuss ''Perspec­tives of the Third World" on Friday, March 2, at 8 p.m. 
On Saturday, March 3, at 9 a.m., Don Luce, director of Clergy and Laity Concerned, will speak on ''The Selective Process of Human and the United States Involvement in Southeast Asia.'' 
Luce is a nationally recognized critic ofU.S. government involve­ment and exploitation of less developed countries. While ser­ving in the International Volun­tary Service, he uncovered the Tiger Cage program set up by the United States m Southeast Asia for the torture of political prison­ers. 
The conference will conclude on Sunday March 4, at 11 a.m. with an address by the Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Univer­sity president on "Our Moral and Ethical Responsibility to our Fellow Man," a synthesis of the topics discussed through out the conference. 
At the conclusion of the Friday conference session, a group of international students will offer samples of their native foods. 
The conference also will have 
ND Art Gallery receives McNear, Radecki gifts 
More than 350 .· drawin~s, watercolors and oils of Chicago artist Everett McNear have been gi"en to the Notre Dame An Gallery. The addition represents almost 54 years of McNear's work and has been described "as one of the most significant gifts an artist can make" by Dean A. Poner, gallery director. 
McNear has distinguished himself with several one-man shows, most notably at Notre Dame, the An Institute of Chi­cago and the Rose Fried Gallery in New York. 
At mid-career he received -national attention for his famous "Employers Mutuals of Wasau" drawmg, a classic in design which has been the insurance company's trademark for more than two decades. 
The earliest work in the collec­tion was completed in 1925 when McNear was studying at the Minneapolis School ofAt c. It was during this time that the artist came in contact with Cameron Booth who taugh him "to love the smell of turpentine and the fell of a bristle brush in oil paint." · 
He made his ftrst trip to Europe in 1932 whhe he worked with the internationally known Cubist Louis Marcoussis, and a series of sensitive etchings depic­ting the bridges of Paris r~sulted. 
Many of these works were given to N0tre Dame and the An Institute of Chicago last year. 
Other drawings in the gift two series of workshops on Saturday dealing with possible solutions to the problems of less developed countries. The follow­ing workshops will begin after the 9 ·a.m. lecture: 
--"Development via Growth and Equity,'' led by Prof. Ken ) am~son, department of Eco­nonucs. 
--''Investment Responsibility'' led by Prof. Peter Walshe Depart­ment of Government and Inter­national Relations, and Prof. James Stewart, Department of English. 
--"Multi-nationals in an Inter­dependent World," led by Prof. Charles Craypo, Department of Economics. 
--''Development," led by Prof. Charles Wilber, chairman, de­partment of Economics 
The morning workshops are intended to acquaint participants with the issues facing the less developed countries. The after­noon workshops are meant to encourage people to experience the problems of less developed countries ftrst-hand and to work toward their solutions. 
Beginning at 1:30 p.m., after­noon workshops include: 
--''Experiencing the Third World" an explanation of summer CILA projects and study pro~rarns in less developed nauons (planned by Andrea Smith) 
--"Formative Programs," a presentation on organizing con­cerned groups to discuss and act on the problems of under­developed countries. (planned by Julie Barry) 
--"Initiating Interest Pro­
grams," a workshop on edu­
cating the general public about 
less developed countries through 
ftlm festivals and urban encoun­
ters. (planned by Kevin Cleary 
and Bruce Blanco) 

For more information on the 
conference, contact Kathy Rosen­
thal (8075). 

student traveling to Europe, called "Young Eye Seeing." Working drawmgs for etchings as well as for paintings in pnvate and public collections are inclu­ded in the gift which Poner plans to feature in a series of exhibi­tions focusi~?-g on the evolution of a young artts. 
Two South Bend residents, Mr. and Mrs. Roman Radecki have presented four major works of art to the gallery's collection. The couple are long-time benefactors of the galleryandMr. Radecki is a current member of the Acces­sions Committee which has been responsible for several imponant gifts to the University. 
Included in the gift is the gallery's ftrst drawing by one of America's greatest teachers and leading exponents of abstract expressionism, Hans Hoffman. Pon'er acclaimed the Hoffman drawing _gift as a "vital and timely addition to the Univer­sity's design of Winslow Homer, entitled "Snap the Whip." "Other than Grant Woods' 'American Gothic,' there isno other image more widely. associa­ted with American art than 'Snap th Whip," Poner said. "We feel very priveleged to show this piece now and in the years to come in our Snite Museum of 
An." 

Other parts of the Radecki gift are a self-portrait by Ivan Al­bright and a cartoon by Ohio 
were for a guidebook for an art arttst Payton Edwards. 
~-------------------------· 
The Observer Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 15 
EPA investigates dump sites 
•• / River City Records & ' 'i
DENVER [AP] The search for Chicago, Smith said, where tons 100 percent radium," said Jim radioactive dump sites expanded of Colorado uranium were ship­Montgomery, chief of the Health 
from Colorado to other states ped between 1915 and 1920 to the Department's radiation control , Celebration Productions Present,_ yesterday as health officials Carnotite Reduction Co. Effons section. ''I'm assuming the same sought to trace the remnants of to locate the exact site of the now is existin_g at these other sites. '' 
Denver's once-bustling radium defunct company have been un­''Uraruum is one of the least 
. THE 
industry. , sucessful, he sa1d. radioactive substances,'' said 
Paul Smith, regional director of Hundreds of tons of Colorado Montgomery. "Radium is just 
the Environmental Protection uranium were shipped to Penn­the o~posite. It's one of the 
Agency said the investigation sylvania during roughly the same worst. . 
into potentially radioactive sites period, Smith said. Adding that Exposure to radium can 
OUTLAWS
had been broadened to include the towns of Canonsburg and produce cancer and genetic 
the Chicago area and towns in Pennsylvania. 
Meanwhile, officials, who ori­ginally had believed that 11 contaminated sites locaterl in the Denver area contained uranium, said they were convinced now that the sites contained the significantly more dangerous ra­dium. 
In the early 1900's, Denver was a center for the procesing of uranium to produce radium, which was then used· im medical treatment. 
''The machine'J is just getting into action,'' sai Smith. ''We have done considerable more literarure research and alened othe~. areas. potentially invol­ved. 
One such site might exist in Landsdowne were prevtously ~own sites of radium process­mg. 
In the Denver area, excessive radiation levels have been dis­covered at 11 sites that served as disposal areas for radioactive materials from radium process­ing. Of 38 potential sites 16 have been found to be without excess radiation and 11 remained to be checked as of Thursday, accord­ing to the Colorado Department of Health. None of the high­radiation sites presents any immediate health danger, but officials have expressed concern about possible long-term exposure to radiatio" leaking from the dumps. 
Drilling at the flfst of the sites has revealed that "it was almost defects and radon gas released from the radioactive decay of 
IN CONCERT
radium can cause lung cancer, Montgomery said. 
special guest Wireless 
CILAplans Frida_y March 2 • 8:00pm 
• Morris Civic Auditorium
meetmg 
Advance Tickets $8.00/7.00
for elections 
now on sale at River City Records 
CILA will hold a meeting 50970 U.S. 31 N. 3 miles north of campus Sunday at 6:45 p.m. in the 
and at the Morris Civic Box
ballroom (second floor) of LaFor­tune Student Center. Because 
" call 277-4242 for furthur information •
new o{ficers will be elected, all members are asked to attend. 


CAL EMMERSON'S 
SUCCESS 

IN ENGINEERING 
DESIGN AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
AT SOLAR IS MUSIC 
TO OUR EARS. 
It takes a lot of discipline to master the art of playing the piano. It also takes discipline to manage over 180 engi­neers and technicians in such areas as aerodynamics, heat transfer, computer science and mechanical 
·"' design and combustion. Solar's Cal Emmerson has mas­tered both. "Solar has a variety of oppor­tunities for mechanical and electrical engineers as well as engineers with MBA's," Cal reports. Solar, the leading builder of in­dustrial turbines up to 10,600 hp, is looking for engineers with back­grounds 1n aerodynamics, ther­
ponent subassembly and product testing. Engineers with an interest in rotating machinery and its applica­tions in the worldwide oil and gas industry. 1 
Solar is located in San Diego. And aside from the more obvious year round outdoor attractions of this area, San Diego has an extremely active cultural life -symphony, museums, ballet, theatre, and a number of other exciting .events. 
Our representative will be on campus Tuesday, February 27. If you're interested in getting your career off on the right note, sign up at the placement office, call Tom Graham collect, (714) 238-6027, or write in confidence to Solar Turbines International, San Diego, CA 92138. 
You'll find working and living in San Diego is music to your ears. 
Ill. 

SOlAR nJRBINES INIERNATIONAl 
An Operatlng Group of lnternat•onal Harvester 



~~-~--­
-~-----­
The Observer Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 16 




-~--~-----.......-------------------~ -~-­

The Observer -Sports Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 17 
Indiana upsets Iowa, Ohio St.leads Big Ten 
] unior Mike Woodson scored 31 points Thursday as Indiana upset 12th-ranked Iowa 64-62 in Big Ten college basketball as the Hoosiers hit 7-of-12 free throws in the game's ftnal seven minutes to hold off the Hawkeyes. 
The Hawkeyes, who started the game shanng the conference lead with Ohio State, suffered their fourth conference loss in 15 games when Kevin Boyle missed a 20-foot shot with two seconds to play. 
Iowas, 18-6 overall, trailed 58-50 with 5:47 to play. Baskets by Tom Norman, Boyle and Dick Peth cut Iowa's deficit to 58-56 and with 3:16 left a Norman field goal made the score 59-58 Indiana. 
Freshman Randy Wittman hit both ends of a one-and-one with 14 seconds left, giving Indiana a 63-60 edge. Kenny Arnold scored for the Hawkeyes with a layup with seven seconds to play and Woodson hit a free throw with six seconds left, completing the scoring. ] unior guard Ron Lester, Iowa with 19 points. Senior Scott Eells came off the bench to score 1 points for Indiana, 8-7 and 16-11. 
Indiana, selecting its shots carefully in the second half, hit 13-of-17 from the fteld. 
''The most critical point for us was when we got behmd 28-22 in the first half and then came back to tie at the half,' ' Indiana Coach Bobby Knight said in a post­game quote sheet distributed by the school's sports information director. 
''Indiana played disciplined basketball and their shot selection was definitely the difference in the game," Iowa Coach Lute Olson said. "I thought we played well, but obviously not well enough to win," he added. 
Ohio State 73, Illinois 55 
COLUMBUS, Ohio [AP] -Herb Williams matched his career high with 34 points Thursday night, lifting 14th-ranked Ohio State to a 73-55 victory over Illinois and the undisputed Big Ten basket­ball lead. 
Williams, a 6-foot-10 sopho­more. had scored 34 points in his 
Ray Perkins selected as Giant Head Coach 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.j. [AP] 
The New York Giants, cellar dwellers five of the last six National Football League sea­sons, hired San Diego Chargers offensive coordinator Ray Perkins on Thursday as their ftfth head coach in the past decade. 
Perkins, 37, succeeds ] ohn McVay, ftred Dec. 18 following a 6-10 season. Perkins was selected for the job by General Manager George Young, who was hu-ed one week ago by the club. The Giants had been searching for a director of operat­ions and coach for two months. 
The length and terms ofPerkins contract were not revealed, although it's believed he signed for three years. 
''I'm just a country boy from. Mississippi who went to Alabama 
and played a little bit at 
Baltimore," said Perkins, who 
inherits a club that hasn't qualifted for the National Foot­
ball League playoffs in 15 years. 
''I've had aspirations to be a head coach since high school and seriously since my sophomore year in college. " 
Perkins is regarded as an offen­sive football genius and is given much of the credit For San Diego's offensive revival in the first college game last season. 
Ohio State now is 12-3 in the conference and took over the sole lead after previous co-leader Iowa lost at Indiana 64-62 Thurs­day night. 
Kelvin Ransey added 16 points as the Buckeyes turned the game into a rout in the closing minutes, outscoring the 11lini 14-2 in one five-minute stretch. 
] ames Griffin, a 6-10 freshman forward averagin~ only seven points, kept the Illtni in the game by scoring 23 poins, 13 of them in the ftrst half. 
Michigan St. 73, Ptfrdue 67 
Michigan State's swift, leaping Spartans held Purdue's 7-foot-1 ] oe Barry Carroll to just two rebounds and four points in the ftrst half, but had to fight off the Boilermakers' outside shooting in the late stages of the game for a crucial 73-67 Big Ten basketball victory Thursday night. 
Gregory Keiser, Msu'sall-time leading scorer, was tops in the game with 29 points. Carroll was held to 10 for the ni~ht as Purdue slipped out of a tte for second place in the conference with the Spartans, ranked No. 7 and wtnners for the eighth straight time. 
Iowa's 64-62 loss to Indiana Thursday night left the Spartans and Hawkeyes tied for second place with 11-4 conference marks, a game back of Ohio State. 
For the season, MSU is 19-5. Purdue fell to 10-5 in the confer­ence and 20-7 overall. 
It was mainly the work of the two sor.homores that neutralized Carrol , keeping him away from 
the  basket,  and  shutting  off  
passes to the inside.  
Carroll,  who  went  into  the  

game as the top scorer and No. 2 rebounded in the Big Ten, had scored a total of 116 points in his last four games. 
"We were packing in on ] oe Barry and letting them take the outside shot," said MSU coach Jud Heathcote. "That maybe wasn't the best strategy in the second half. '' 
Purdue coach Lee Rose said the loss will keep the Boilermakers "awake all night till we play Michigan (Saturday)." 
second half of last season. 
The Charges conpiled a 7-1 mark over the final half of the season, scoring 213 points, an average of 26.5 a game. They tied the Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh Steelers for the best mark over the second half of the season. 
''The offense is determined by the stren~ht or weakness of the defense,' he said. "If you have a strong defense you can do a lot more things. If it's weak, you have to do things to keep the ball away from the other team. I expect to throw the ball. '' 
.. .ND 

----------­
[continued from page 20] 
trio is 6-2 sophomore Kevin Lynam, who jumped into the starting lineup earfy in the year, and has averaged 9. 3 points per 
game. 
Because ofa national television 
audience on the Notre Dame 
netwOrk, the Irish will play their 
second Saturday night game in 
the ACC this year. Tip-off is 
scheduled for 8 p.m. 
Michigan State ''Did a good 
job" on Carroll, "Making us 
shoot from the outside," Rose 
said. 

"We tried to get it in to Joe a 
few times and it didn't material­
ize," Rose moaned. 
Wisconsin 66, Michigan 55 
Wesley Matthews scored 31 points -the most by any player against Michi~an this season -to lead Wisconsm to a 66-65 upset of the Wolverines in Big Ten basketball Thursday night. 
The Badgers snapped a 10­game losing streak. 
Michigan had a chance to win the game at the final buzzer, but Tom Staton missed a jumper and Alan Hardy blew a tip-in off the rebound. 
The Badgers, 9-15 overall and just 3-12 in the conference, led all night until Michigan's Marty Bodnar hit a jump shot with 51/z minutes left in the second half to give the Wolverines a 57-56 advantage. 
Matthews, a sophomore guard whose previous high game was 28 points, hit the eventual game­winner with 1:"20• left. 
Other scores 
Louisiana State 86, Alabama rro North Carolina 71, North Carolina State 56 Duquesne 93, Detroit 84 
Watch:· The Secrets of Fat;ma 
a 13 part T.V. series 
9 AM 
Sunday, Jan. 28 
thru 
· Sunday April 22 
WNDU-TV 
Channel 16 
Let•s be candid ... This 
is a pitch. we·re looking 
..... 

for talent. 
At Magnavox Government & Industrial Electronics Co., we 
1 want to hire the best engineers i and computer scientists we can find. If you qualify, and you're 
·Vf

/ I
interested in a career with the 
I

world's leader in communica­tion sytems, Magnavox may be 
/'

' _.,./
for you. 
That's because, in our business, an outstanding technical staff is the key to success. Magnavox has been remarkably successful because we offer small company atmosphere with large company benefits and challenge! 
Hence the pitch, and this ad. If you like what you see here, get in touch. Maybe both of us will be glad you did. 
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS: Tuesday, March 6, 1979 
Please contact your Placement Officeor send your resume to: 
PROFESSIONAL PLACEMENT 

MagnaV'O~ 
Advanced Products Division (Magnavox Research Laboratories) 
2829 Maricopa St. Torrance, CA 90503 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
Second Scene Tryouts for 2 Plays Old Times-Harold Pinter 
~ND 
Man in the Moon Marigolds 
SMC 
THEATRE 
-Paul Zindel 

Sat. Feb. 24 2:00pm SMC-Little Theatre Moreau Hall copies of script available in 110 Moreau 
GABE KAPLAN'S HAVING A BALL! 
COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS A STEPHEN FRIEDMAN I KINGS ROAD PRODUCTION 
GABRIH KAPlAN IN fA~l BR~AK ASSOCIATE PRODUCER EXECUTIVE PRODUCER 
JACK GROSSBERG ·GERALD FRANKEL 
SCREENPLAY BY STORY BY 
SANDOR STERN · MARC KAPLAN 
DIRECTED BY PRODUCED BY 
JACK SMIGHT ·STEPHEN FRIEDMAN 
MUSIC BY 

DAVID SHIRE ANoJAMES Di PASQUALE 
PGIPNIJITII.GUIIoiii:ESUOIISll'D-1 ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACK ON ~ 
ItOMUioi.TI'MM.IMYNOT.tl,lri'.... I'OfiiCM.~ MOTOWN RECORDS AND TAPES 
@) 1979 Columbia Pictures lndustrres. Inc I READ THE BAL 1 ANTINE PAPERBACK I ~ 
Also starring South Bend's own Mike Warren as The Preacher 
Starts Friday-Feb. 23rd Times: 2-4-6-8-10 Town &Oountry (2) 

ENGINEERS 
.....-----­

r 
.f 
I I 
l The Observer -Sports· Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 18 
A ClOSS 36. Old-womanish 
I. Ha-riqpod 
37. Payment 
........... 
made on 
6. Council for impoiU 
aoveminc 
DOWN p~udice 1. Youncpenon 
S. lnapire with 
10. Whole 2. Dirty
c 
11. Quantity ;t, Button for a 12. Certain <1.-ohirtR weather word 4. ·~it for­

0 
13. 
Movie 6. Vault 


14. Edgar 6. Debar 
Allan-7. Artiele on a
s 16. Ruped, oteep list roek 8. Summits 11. Sound of a 9. George kitten Bernard­
•u 
liZ 
.. 
118 
120 
1.. 
131 

w 
18. Glowing 

0 
20. 
Undesirable: 


2wdo. 
R 
22. 
Type of vine 

24. Navy veaeel 

D 
27. 
Roll with a 


llttul motion 
s 
28. Criticize 
hanhly 
36. Sound 
30. The Bastille, hanhly for one 
32. Southern 
I"' ,.. 
Fillipino 
130 
33. 
Moving about 

34. 
Attaeked; ueailed 


, 133 .. 
p B AINIUITIS p A Sill 
fll.J! 
L B 0 IN A IR ID IO
'"1~~; 
como 
~ Is IP II II D Is lala lA 
l•l•lslcii N D ls•Tltlxlo 
-Ti.A.IIIG TBII~ 
IRiol.a.IR RIA lx jk. 
IALXILII I&ILIIIN G 
~ .~'"'' 
rnr. •••'• ·il~
I.a. It I.a. lc lAIR~ lalz 
IT It a A ID Ia IC a A Is Ia a lA.&.!.L! .~ w T II IG IH T 8 
Molarity 

Noddy 
II. Circus tent; 31. Very small 2 wds. mouthful 

... Irish
13. Small boats 32. Bill oHare 
34. Word for 

in the National Catholics and
Yesterday's 

third at Wheaton will enter his first NCAA tournament battle at 167 with a 14-10 mark, while senior Bob Golic, wrestlin~ for
Answers 

the first time this season, will be looking to qualify for the National and then to improve on his 

16. Fruitcake some kido
ingredient 

[continued from page 20] 
18. Violent ancere 

consecutive second-place finish
19. Doolittle, 
for one 

in the National Catholic Invita­
21. Place for 

tional, will anchor the team at 
oafekeepine 

118. Freshman Curt Rood with a 
23. Infrequently 

6-7 match mark, will get the nod 
24. Box 

at 126 while junior co-captian
seientiftcio.Ily 

Dave DiSabato will check 10 at
26. -M-Jor, 

134.
Great Bear 
26. Pieeeo 

DiSabato boasts a 23-7 overall 
29. Short infor­

record and is riding a ten-match 
mallettsr 

winning streak into tomorrow 
I< 

afternoon's preliminary round. The Columbus, Ohio native, a
8 li
I• 

champion at the National Catho­
Ll 

lic and Wheaton Invitationals this 
n 

year as well as runner-up at 126 
l7
118 

10 last year's Midwest Regional, has already broken the team records for takedowns and near­falls in a season.
22 
123 

Dave is currently ranked third 
27 
129 

on Notre Dame's all-time win list, with 68 career victories and a hat 
134 trick this weekend will pull him to within one of second-place Rob
I•• 

Dreger, Notre Dame's other 
I" 

national qualifier in last year's Regional. Freshman John Iglar, second 
third-place finish last year. 
Gohc' s career record at Notre Dame is 54-4-1, with all four of those losses coming in the NCAA tournament. Since he hasn't wrestled at all this season, Bob will retire as the first Irish wrestler ever to survive regular season competition without a loss. 
The tournament begins with preliminary rounds Saturday af­ternoon at 1 pm and then again at 7 pm. The semi-finals are slated for Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. and the tournament f10als, from which the two top wrestlers at each weight class and five third place finishers will advance to the NCAA Finals, will be held Sun­day at 4 pm. 
The competition for the team championship will be intense, with Cal-Poly, currently ranked twelfth natioflally, undou~tedly the tourney favorite, although Drake, Portland State and Ne­vada Las-Vegas are strong con­tenders. 
"There·aren't many big wrest­ling schools out West, so those that are big on wrestling usually get the gOod talent,'' explains coach Sepeta, who led the Irish to a twentieth place finish in last year's Nationals. 
''The western schools only have to draw from their area and 
Michael Molinelli 

JunCanavan 
then get one or two good wrest­lers from the Midwest or East and they become awesome.'' 
Individually, the tournament will showcase some of the cream of the national crop, with four 1 wrestlers ranked in the top six in their weight classes according to Amateur Wrestling News. 
Cal-Poly boasts two in the top four. Freshman Dan Cuestas is ranked fourth nationally at 118, although he may wrestle at 126 this weekend. Scott Heaton a 167-pound junior, is ranked third going into the Regionals. 
The other two top-six indivi­duals are both at 142 pounds. Mike Mathies a Portland State senior, and Larry Buckner, a senor from Nevada-Las Vegas will be battling for the top spot at 
142. They are ranked ftfth and sixth respectively in the country. 
Several returning place­winners from last year's Regional should make th, tournament interesting. Der ..Jog on what class Cuestas wrestles at, Cal­Poly Gary Fisher, second in last year's Western Regional, and Drake's Scott Impecoven, second at the Midwest Regional, should lead the competition at 118. Guy Reilly, an Indiana State senior, isthe only returnin~ place-winner at 126 although his second last year was at 134. 
Notre Dame's Dave DiSabato is a strong contender at 134, having finished second at 126 last year. Dave's top competition should come from Nevada-Las Ve~as' Tyrone Rae, a senior who firushed seventh at last year's NCAA finals, and Billy Fitz­gibbons, a Cal-Poly senior who was third in the Western Re­gional in 1978. 
The 142-pound bracket will be a toss-up between Mathies and Buckner, the former having won the Western Regionals two years in a row and the latter having finished seventh in the NCAA finals last year. Paul Hibbs, a Southern Illinois junior, could be a dark horse at 142, having captured the Midwest Regionals at that weight last year. 
Drake junior Oscar Ordonez and Illinois State senior John Trice, first and dJ.ir<t.r;espc:c~ively at the Midwest Regionals last year, are both returning at 150 pounds.-Robert Kiddy, a junior from Cal-Poly who finished first in the Western Re_gionals his fust two years is a definite favorite at 158. 
Likewise, Cal-Poly's nation­iilly-ranked Scott Heaton, a two­year Regional champ who finish-_ ed third in last year's Nationals tops the field at 167 pounds. The 177-pound class looks wide open, although Drake senior Leo Ellis, a regional runner-up as a fresh­man and sophomore, could make a strong comeback into the championship spotlight. 
Air Force sophomore Gary Chadwich has the inside track at 190, having finished second in last year's Regional at 167. The heavyweight class is led by two returning champions, Cal-Poly's David Jack and Notre Dame's Bob Golic. Jack went four rounds in the Nationals last year and Golic finished third in the 1978 finals. 
"Our injuries have been a big problem this year, so I have to be disappointed with the season from that respect,'' notes ~pc;ta. 
We've wrestled a lot of good teams this year, and the losses on our record indicate that. But by wrestling those teams we were trying to prepare for theNCAA tournament and the competition we'd have there. Now is the moment of truth--this weekend is what we've been working for all 
·season.'' 



Meet Someone New 
at 

THE RAMROD 
free admission with college ID 


* 
dance floor 


* DJ Buddy King
* 
pool table 

every Fri & Sat night
511 S. Mich St. (downtown) open till 3am. 
1979-80 ]UOICtal COOROtnatOR 
appl1cat1ons must B€ susmrttoo toth€ stub€tlt qov€Rnm€tlt orr•c€ 2nb rtoou lafoutun€ 
E~' 5pm tobay 
. . 

------~---­
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 23, 1979 -page 19 
... Fencers 
[conh.nued from page 20) 
Columbus. 
The Badgers are led by foilist Dean Rose, whose 25-2 season mark is by far the best on the squad. 
Illinois is 15-0 on the year, and accordi.ng to DeCicco, "they match up against us overall almost as well as anyone has in the last three or four years. 
"We'll have to take the edge with our number-three men. That's where our balance will have to tip the scale." 
No scale will be able to record sabre title as a freshman in 1975, while the Tartars have claimed the foil title in four of the past five years. Last year Simon took top honors by defeating Notre Dame's Pat Gerard in a fence-off to deterine the medal winner. Gerard had won the title the previous year at the title competi­tion at the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
''They also have some excel­lent supporting fencers, like Carl Kluke m foil," lauded DeCicco of Danosi' s team. '•And their epee team is super. The pressure of Gil Pezza has made three of their epeeists excellent. 
''They are tough. We know it, and they're going to try to prove it." 
And the Irish will try to prove otherwise. 
''Ifwe are as good as I think we are," notes DeCicco, "and if we can get ourselves up to the proper emotional level, our momentum could be enough to get us through the entire weekend.'' 
the intensity which should ac­company Notre Dame's match with Wayne State, as the Detroit school lurks foremost in the minds of the Irish. 
''They present what could be the best three-man team in the nation going into the nationals," said DeCicco. 
Wayne State Coach Istvan Danosi has gone to three contin­ents co assemble this year's main trio of Tartar fencers. Foilist Ernie Simon is a native of Melbourne, Australia, freshman epeeist Gil Pezza is from Milan, Italy, while senior red-shin Yuri Rabinovich hails from Odessa, USSR. 
Rabinovich won the NCAA 
Track team travels to Tilinois 
by Mark Perry _ be Arnie Gough and ] ohn Assistant Sports Editor McCloughan, in the high hurdles and shuttle hurdles, Perry Stowe A reduced squad will be repre­in the pole vault, Jay Miranda in senting the Notre Dame track the 1000-yard run, and the di.s­team this weektnd, as the Irish tance medley relay team of Chuck 
travel to Champaign, IL, to Aragon, Ken Lynch, Pete compete in the Illtni Oassic, Burger, and Tony Hatherly. hosted by the University of "Our goal for the weekend is to Illinois. qualify the di.stance medley relay 
"We are taking the runners team for the NCAA champion­who have done consistently well ships in March," Piane added. for us this season," Irish coach "a time of9:52 will get them in, 
] oe Piane said. so we are looking to get in 
Competing this Saturday will between 9:50 and 9:52." 
Greg Meredith will try to extend hir nine game scoring streall against Deflver. [Photo by John Macor] 
. .. leers 
[continued from page 20) 
State. 

Michigan Tech's Gord Salt:" Both games of the Notre In other WCHA action this Dame-Denver series will be 
week, Wisconsin hosts Colorado, broadcast live over WNDU-AM Michigan is at Minnesota-Duluth radio beginning at 9:30 South and North Dakota hosts Michigan Bend time each night. 
Classifieds 
. 

WANTED: two GA East Carolina tickets. 
Melanie and Terl, CJ Call Cathy, 8093. Pardon our French, but, oul, nous Yellow skip,
Notices Wanted 
acceptons! Alllll daY.,
Dale et Kerry In your ace. TD 
P.S. You have danced your way Into our hearts! Have ~ou been mistaken for Bella Abz~ In pu lie places? You are a UMO 
Any student (undergraduate or graduate) candidate. planning marriage this spring, summer, or early tall and wishing to participate In Danny, PRE-CANA (marrla~e preparation) As I grow 1 r,11r old1r, I grow 1 ye~r through Campus Min stry must r~lster more In love wth ~ou. You've n11de :;1
by March 26 In the Library CM Off ce. last yur 1nd 1 hi f the best ever, 1nd 
know It will never end. Good things come In threes--Happy II qulero, birthday Christy, Laurie, and Lisa! G1tltl 
P. Byrnes and T. Mockus Todalsls Mary Ann Wissel's birthday.Praise God now, there's "no TIME to Call 75 and wish her a Happy one! 
LOSE." ChuckW. Con~ratulations to the Dillon Big Red 

Need student tickets for LaSalle and GAs MORRISSEY LOAN FUND CINCINNATI for East Carolina games. Call Dave at 
1146. Student loans, $2D-$150, one ~ercent If you are going In that direction March 2 Interest due In 30 days. La ortune and coming back of March 4, we would · Wanted: 2 LaSalle tlx. Will pay big, bl~ Basement, 11:30-12:30 m-f. like to go with you. We will share bucks. 
driving, expenses, and provide witty Gay students of Notre Dame/St. Mary's conversation. Call Mo. 6349, or Jean, Gay Information line 8148, so we can be there tor our friend's 
8870 wedding. bucks. Joe 288-2023. 
Call Fri. February 23, 10 PM-mldnlghtSat, February 24, 10 PM-mldnlght OVERSEAS JOBS,Summer/year round. Help! Need GA LaSalle tickets-any or write P.O. Box 206 Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. combination. Call Dan 272-1955. All Fields, $500-$1200 monthly. ~n-Attention seniorsII ses paid. Sl~seelng. Free Info.-rite: Urgent: need one or two GA LaSalle IJC, Box 44 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. tickets, 287-8359. 
The Senior Arts Festival Is sollcltin9 photographs for exhibition during festlva Need ride to Uof Michigan on March 2 Must have 4 GA LaSalle or East Carolina week. Submit work to Bernadette Youn~, and ride back after the ~a me on the 4th. tickets for Chicago attorney. Lee, 1182. 
317 Badin, or Kevin Pritchett, 1 4 If you can help, call Ml eat 3889. Keenan. Help! Karen urgent~ needs two GA Need ride tor two to Ft. Meyers, Florida, LaSalle tickets. Call 6 25. Attention 111 Logan volunteers 1nd Inter-over break. Can leave on Wed. Call 
uted students: Brian, 1423. Need 2 LaSalle tickets. Nick 1623. 
Questions, call Mike at 1 1 or Sue 11 1765~ 4-1-4832. Northfield, IL 
Need ride to SEATTLE Spring Break. 
Hoc ey team! South quad champs. Too Miss Mary Mac: bad Pangborn "violence". Try again
Are you still laughing In the library? next year.Very strange, but HAPPY BIRTHDAY anyway! Stlnford Hill number onelllllllllllll 
Regul1r S1turdly rec this S1turd1l; Two Red K's Feb. 24, 1t Log1n Center from 9-11: Interested In summer ca~ jobs? Wanted: 2 GA LaSalle tickets. Call Get soaked t the gills at another AM. Other ICUvltes IVIIilble: Friday, Counselors-Instructors want for pres-Marlbeth, 3845. Squlz, paddleflsh happy hour this Frld~ from 
3:20 PM, BDWIIIItl. Meet It ND Ubrary tige private boys and girls camps near You're finally here again In "Mlch-4-6 at Nickle's. Beer 3/$1 and cents cln:le. Volunteers needed during the Kalamazoo. Desperate for two GA tickets to East lana"!! I know we will have agreat time for 7 and 7s. Be there. week 1t homestlrt 1nd L~1n Center. Lawrence Seager Carolina. Call Susie, 6936. together. Why not stay around a few 
Will share driving and expenses. Call
Lost&Found Steve Miller, 7829, evenings around 11. Chicago ~rents need new scenery-need2 GA b-II tickets for LaSalle. Call 
Lost:student rights!! If found~lease Need ride to Chamr,lgn. IL (U of I) on Browse at 8685 tor money. 
return to Dan Bell. 413 Carroll 7. Friday, February 2 . all John 1751. 
Lost: Gold chain at 823 NO Ave. Friday Full or part time help needed for local nite. (~Imp parW Great sentimental record and tape store operation. Apply In 
value. award. ave 6828. person at Camelot Music, Unlversl~ Park 
Mall, Monday, Feb. 26, 1o AM to PM. Lost: at Gulsepee·s. Sat. night-1. an Ask for Mike Turske. ow:n, lie at nee , off-white sweater and 
o!-white pair of mittens. 2. a SMC key 
chain with SMC ID and two keys on it. II found, please call Cathy Perreault at 
For Sale 
(219) 284-5168, (LeMans). $5 reward. VW BUS-Excellent coll~llll car, best Found: gold high school class rlnH offer. C1ll 3489 for detlls. 
outside Rock. Says Blue Ash on it. Ca 7883 to Identify. 1978 Ford Supervan. Regular gas. 
Captains chairs, western mirrors, rear Lost: one crutch outside of the Library and side door glass. Readlt for conver­about a week and a halt a~. If you've slon. $6500 or best of er. Chris, seen this crutch alive, call Ike at 1678. 277-4292, or 287-7272. 
Lost: Black german shepherd puppy Selling three /,Ieee sectional Kroehler named Gretchen, In the vicinity of sofa, cheap, 2 -1226, after 5. Llncolnway West and Chapin. Call 233-7213. Reward. Notre Dame at Michigan basketball 
tickets for sale, (Sunday March 4), $2,Lost: my green rugby jacket at Gul-Mike, (313) 663-3011. seppe's last Saturday. Please. If you 
have found It, return it. I need It lor the USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun.,Ireland trip. Tim 1445, reward. 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Niles. 683-2888. 
tFor Rent 
Tickets 
Need really big sound for your next party? Two Peavey loudspeakers with 300 
Desperately need 1or 2 tickets GA Eastwatt mixer/amp. Adapts to ant system Carolina tix. $$Barry 8921.
~real sound magnification. all Bob, I am looking for six student LaSalle tickets. Will pay$$!! Call Mike or Mel at 6770. 
All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p m .. two days prior to the issue in whtch the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classtlieds Monday through Friday. 10 00 a.m. to 5:00 p m. All cla~>ifteds must be pre-paid. either 1n person or through the mat!. 
Desperate need for 2 GA tickets for LaSalle game. Call Karen 284-4635.  Royal Manor lnstlld.  The Petrol1tum  Mrs. Phlllppaen. Susan,  
Wlnterhlwk It al,  I still have your wine glass.  

I see that your benign brain disease--Love, moralistic outrageltus-has turned mallg-Creepo
Personals 
Rich Role 

When did you take to studying home­work In your room? Linda: 
When did you take to tutoring?The Quad 
Dann~ and KT-You re "Utter"ly fantastic The Quad 
ROSIE BABY" You are a helluva plnchar: Let's hope you'll be nearly 11 good 11 editor. God 
Kathy C.-Even thou~h you are adevious, under-handed wretc , at least you're not 
a duck.  I do  appreciate having  you  
around.  
Beth  

William G., Though some things in life are hard to bear, don't let It bring you down. P.M. 
Hey Girls, How 'bout some new Klipsch?Band C 
weeks? Drink with the fish this Friday! I Joe Need ride to Chicago on Feb. 23. Please Tipps, call Mary 4-1-4416. 
lt'sabout damn Ume you got the hell out hare to this Winter Wonderl1nd. The B1r Whoever took the "disturb" sign from Car will be rolling to Ch!-Town tonight-the SMC library reference desk, ~IIIII Just think, you could hive been at the return it. It holds 1 aentlmentll ve ut fir 
nan!. This fatal disease strikes repressed Yanklnov brothers take another field tripNeanderthals and mental midgets with to Michigan. Stay tuned for details. 
ll¥htnln~ ferocity.

he on yknown cure Is ahealthy dose of John, Nietzsche. Read one bOOk per annum; Thank ~ou so much for the flower. It It'll do wonders by loosening up your was so t oughtful.emotional strait jacket and liberating your t 
mental myopia. The Lusting Llcher The Regina Talent show Is on Friday
P.S. Vertical position? You're quite the February 23, at 8 PM In the SMC Little sensual expert, eh Romeo?? \ Theatre. Be thereII 
Barbara,DonS. 
Happy 20th. Enjoy your birthday pre-

Hope you have a~ood time at the Dome sents.
on your second vis t. The Minstrel in the Gallery 
Anne and Mary Nell 
Deseeratelr need ride to Chicago theTo my favorite music major, wee end o the 23rd. Julia 5407.

I could have gotten rou aflower tor VD, but nothing physlca can represent our Are you curious RED?
friendship, certainly not a flower. Flowers wither, die, and are forgotten. 
Tina,Ours is a very special relationship, and I After all I've read about you, I'd love tohope that it never ends. 

meet you.

Your special friend 
Asecret admirer 

Are you a frustrated Intellectual? A To the three Winter Park Girls.
misbegotten son of a philosopher king? 
Beautiful southern women are alwaysThe solution to your woes Is coming. 

welcome at NO. Have a nice weekend.
Watch this page. 
304 Dillon 
... 

rr----·~-----~--­
• 


Friday, Fchl!ary 23, 1979 -page 20 
, SRorts 
Face LaSalle at ACC 
ND takes on the 'System' 
byMar~Perry _ "The 'System' we use, I think breaks. Assistant Sports Editor it's the greatest thing in basket-Br~ks' importance to LaSalle ball," Westhead commented. was tllustrated early in the year, 
Over the season one of the ."We're doing something that when he bruised his thigh in the strong points of the Notre Dame ~an' t be stopped. Our philosophy Explorer'~ second game of the basketball team has been their ts, other teams never beat us. year agamst Kentucky. He depth. Where most teams can Other team's ability, fate, luck, missed the next two games, and send six or seven good players in bigger players, whatever, they could. not pl~y with his usual into a game, the Irish have worn nught beat us, but when we lose, effectiveness to December, and their . opponents down, substi­we just dido' t get enough out of LaS.alle had a 3-7 record over that tuting freely in order to keep the 'System'.'' penod. players fresh. The leading component of the Since t)le beginning of the 
The effectiveness of Notre "System" ts LaSalle's All--year, LaSalle has an 11-4 record, Dame's depth will be put to the American forward, Michael an~ Brooks has averaged over 24 test Saturday night, when the Brooks. The 6-7 junior led the pomts a game. "System" comes to the ACC. Explorers in scoring his first two . The other forward for LaSalle 
This is the term that LaSalle seasons, and has continued his ts Mo Connolly, who is second on Head Coach Paul Westhead uses success this season. Brooks has the team in scoring. at 13.9 points to describe his fast break philos­averaged 23.5 points a game, and per gar:ne. The 6-7 junior ts also ophy, which helped lead the also leads the team in rebounding averagmg 8.6 rebounds a game, Explorers to the East Coast with an average of 13.1 per and the effectiveness of Connolly Athletic Conference title and an game. and Brooks on the boards is the NCAA bid last season. "He is probably the best key to LaSalle's "System." 
"There isn't a team in the basdine-to-baseline player in the The Explorers operate with a country that tuns more than we country, " W esthead added. "In dV"ee-guar~ attack, and get bal­do," Westhead said, "because our system of fast breaks, anced sconng from rhetr three we run every time we touch the Michael reSouucis, outlets the starters. Leading the way is ball. " The key to the ~arne ball, and before you can blink Darryl Gladden, a 6-1 junior, who should be Notre Dame's abiltty to he's at the other end of the court, averages 12.9 points per game. run with the Explorers. waiting to ram the ball down Close behind is Kurt Kanaskie, 
This "System" gave the Irish somebody' s throat." another 6-1 junior who averages Mickael Brooks [32] is_ the k~y ingredt~nt in La Salle's ''System, '' fits last season, as they had to The Irish found out about 12.9 points. Rounding out the .leadzng the Explorers zn scorzng averagzng 26.5 points per game. fight off the Explorers en route to Brooks' effectiveness last season, [continued on page 17] a tough 95-90 win. And West­as he scored a career-high 39 ===================================== head believes that the "System" points, with a large portiOn of can beat anyone at anytime. those points coming on fast 

leerstry to extend win streak 
very important one for us,'' notes seventh place. Colorado occilpies 
by Brian Beglane 

Irish coach Lefty Smith. "We the last playoff spot, though, so
Sports Wn"ter 

have been playing very well the Pioneers are fighting to keep 
DENVER -The Notre Dame recently and hope to keep the ahead to assure a spot in the hockey team will attempt to momentum rolling as we head post-season play. attain irs longest win streak of the into the playoffs less than two Both thes~ teams spl1t last 
season here tonight and tomor­weeks from now. It is vital for us November at the ACC in just the row when it faces off against the to do well this week so we can second series of the year. The Pioneers of Denver University. keep pace with the league and Irish won the ftrst night 6-4 on The Irish bring a five-game win hopefully gain home ice for at two goals by Tom Michalek but streak and a 17-10-1 WCHA least the ftrst round of the Denver handed Notre Dame its ·record into the series. Currently playoffs. first 'loss of the year the next tied for second place with Minne­''But Denver will be a very night, 4-3, on a third period goal sot<j, Notre Dame will attempt to tough opponent this week. They by Ken Berry. The defending 
keep pace with the Gophers, are a very big and physical team WCHA champions, Denver holds hosts for Michigan Tech this and we did not have it easy by a 25-9-2 edge in the eight-year week, as both teams _battle it out any means when we played them rivalry. for home ice in the rapidly in November. This weekend is Notre Dame junior wing Greg approaching playoffs. the first of two away series which Meredith. named WCHA player 
''This series with Denver is a we finish the season with so of the week for his four-goal doing well against Denver will be performance la~t weekend a big help when we play at against Minnesota, will a.tternpt Wisconsin next week." to keep a nine-game scoring The Pioneers of DU bring an streak alive this week. Meredith 11-15-2 league record into the currently is second in WCHA
Irish host NCAA district tourney 
series, which places them two goal scoring with Z6, one behind points :iliead of Colorado in [continued on page 19]
Yet this is the same Irish team
by Btl/ Marquard were sidelined for medical rea­
that posted as many dual meet
Sports Wrzter sons this week. Junior 142­pounder Chris Favo sustained wins as their talented pre­
decessors last year, and against a
Their regular season now his­neural damae:e in a match against much tougher schedule. It is also Fencers host meet at SMCtory, the Notre Dame wrestling, Drake last week and he has no 
the same Irish team that surpri­
team charges into post-season reflexes or fe(!ling in his left arm, 
sed a few people with their third 9 a.m. on Saturday, the Irish will
competition this weekend with although doctors expect the con­by Paul Mullaney 
the NC}cA Western Regional dition to heal. Junior 150-pound­place finish in this year's Nation­Asszstant Sports Edt"tor ta~gle with Big Ten powers al Catholic Invitational. Wisconsin and Illinois, and then
Wrestlmg Championships. er Mike Wilda, a third-place 
The Irish have seven wrestlers St. Maty's students will not national title contender Wayne And the Irish won't have to finisher at the National Catholics in this year's tournament. Senior only get a rare up-close look at State.
travel far this year as they host and a runner-up at Wheaton, has 
the Western Regionals for the developed an infection of the co-captain George Gedney, sport­collegiate fencing, but will also ''The team that comes out of 
f. first time ever at the ACC knee joint. Both were slated for ing a 16-12 record and his third have the opportunity to watch the this weekend undefeated has to tomorrow and Sunday. The action tomorrow. [continued on page 18] best swordsmen in the midwest rank as the best in the midwest, Regional tournament, which "We lost a lot of talented this weekend, as Notre Dame let alone among the top schools in 
draws teams from as far away as wrestlers due to graduation last host seven schools at the Angela the country, " notes Coach Mike isCalifornia and Oregon, is the last year, and thus we have a young Irish women win Athletic Facility. Decicco, whose Irish squad 
les on the season-long road to and inexperienced team,'' offers The Irish, ;vinners in al! of ten also seeking its fourth straight tlus year's NCAA championship Irish mat mentor Ray Sepeta. "I inDistricts matches this season, entertain undefeated regular season. 
Northwestern and Milwaukee ' 'There are four ·tough schools
at Iowa State. can't realistically hope for the In women's basketball action Area Tech on Friday at 6 p.m. to her~ in the midwest fighting forThe Irish finished second in finish we had last year, although last night, Notre Dame d-efeated kickoff the first and only weekend national honors."
last year's Midwest Regional there are a couple people wtth Valparaiso, 52-49, in the first o~ fencing in South Bend this Those four schools--Notreclassic (which has since been real potential this year. " round of the Indiana District 
wtnter. Dame, Wayne State, Illinois andcombined into the Western Re­"Our fledgling team hasn't Tournament at St. Joseph's But the real test for the Wisconsin--have combinedgional) at Air Force, advancing had much tournament ex­College in Rensselaer, IN. 
two-time defending national record of 45-1 this year, as only
three wrestlers to the NCAA perience, particularly in the Leading scorer for the Irish finals at Maryland. Two of those NCAA tournament. Our regional was Jane Politiski, who had 12 champions will come on Satur­Wisconsin has lost a dual meet. 
day, as the Irish will put their ' 'The fact that Wisconsin lost
three national qualifiers, namely has been expanded this year, and points, followed by Tricia 
winning string of 95 consecutive to Ohio State tells us that they are Dave DiSabato at 134 and Bob with the number of highly-ranked Mcl\1anus, who scored 10. 
matches on the line against its vulnerable,' ' offered DeCicco,Golic at heavyweight, are back teams and individuals who will be Notre Dame advanced to the toughest competition of the year. whose fencers defeated thefor this year's tourney. competing, our chances are really semifinals, and will face St. 
After facing Purdue and Wash­Buckeyes . 16-11 last week inAs has been the case all ' bright at only a few weight Mary's College tonight at 8:30 ington (of St. Louis) beginning at
season, two more Irish wrestlers classes, at least this year." p.m., at the same site. [continued on page 19] 






