
~---------------------------------------------------------­
, , .NCAA Cage pairings -page 10 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
VOL. XIII. NO. 96 
Poet Allen Ginsberg opens 
Sophomore Literary Festival 

by Aileen Lavin the classical style." Ode," "written about nuclear StaffReporter He instructed the audience to imagination."sit forward and erect with eyes. ''Plutonian Ode'' was written 
The sophomore Literary Fes­open and relaxed because at the time of his arrest at the tival began last night in Wash­"we're not goin~ to another Colorado Rocky Flats Nuclear ington Hall with a performance world, we're here 10 this world. Bomb Facility for meditating on by poet Allen Ginsberg, which The point is not to get any­railroad tracks to block a train focused upon the influence of where, we're here where we ate carrying plutonium. Fellow Buddhist meditation in his life already." poet Peter Orlovsky and Daniel and his works. He continued his instructions Ellsberg, who was responsible Ginsberg, who. believes in by directing the audience's for releasing the Pentagon 
' 'acknowledging thought forms mind to be focused upon their Papers in the. early 70s, were in a friendly way," explained breathing through their noses. also arrested with Ginsberg. his traditional Buddhist beliefs ''Follow the breath out until the Before reading "Plutonian of meditation in the first half of breath dissolves," Ginsberg 9de," Ginsberg began by sing­the performance with his theory stated. mg a mantra, which · is a on "Mind Breaths." At this point there were five one-syllable cant, to encourage 
In 1971, Ginsberg began to minutes of meditation that was "an apweciation of speech and develop his interest in medita­interrupted by a student's sound. ' The mantra lasted for tion by daily hour subvocal shout, "I don't believe you got five minutes before he went on mantra heart meditation under paid for this! '' Ginsberg re· [continued on page 4] the instruction of Swami sponded by calmlr. ringing a 
Muktananda. 
·bell to break the sdence of the audience's meditation, saying,
The following year he expan­ded his studies on the Tibetan 
''It's just another thought SMCnames 
style of Buddhist meditation form" a:; a rebuttal to the and at this time, strong themes student's comment. .on Dharma · appeared in his He then carried the audience election 
"around the world" throughwor~s and sonf;S. 
his poems form his published
Gmsber~ Introduced his 
book, Mind Breaths.
poem.s .on 'Mind J?reaths" by candidates 
explammg the basics involved Having been requested to 
in "samtha," a slight variance read some of his earlier works, by Pam Degnan of traditional Buddhist medita­

Ginsber~ selected two poems· tion. He explained his poem written m 1956, "The Strange The names of the candidates 
"Mind Breaths" as "being New Cottage in Berkeley'' and running in Saint Mary's student relatively clear, but a lot dearer ''A Supermarket in California.'' body elections next Mondcy 
Ginsber~ continued his read­· were released last night by the
if you know how to meditate in 

inss with 'Mugging," a poem Saint Mary's B6ard of Govern­wntten during his experiences ance.
For 1979-'80 with hash-hish. The poem, The Susan Glockner ticket, written in a stream-of-con· which includes Sheila Wixted sciousness style, dealt with and Kathy McGrath, will the public apathy and isolation oppose the Pia Trigiani ticket ofObserver names editorialboard toward him after being mugge~ Chip Dornback and Kathy in New York City. Sweeney. The positions they The first half of his perfor· will be vying for will be Student Rosemary Mills, newly-elected editor-in-chief continuity of style in reporting. mance concluded by his invita· Body president, vice presidentof The Observer, announced the 1979-80 The position of sports editor will be filled by of Academic Affairs and vice
tion to remain for the second

editorial board yesterday. The new board will Mark Perry. Perry, a junior from Naperville,. IL, half for his poem, ''Plutonian president of Student Affairs. 
assume their responsibiltties after spring break. replaces Ray O'Brien. An American Studies SBP candidate Susan Diane Wilson, a junior from Montpelier, IN, major, Perry is currently an assistant sports 
Glockner, is a junior resident 
will assume the position of managing editor. editor. He has also worked as a staff reporter. in Hall
advisor LeMans and 
This position has been redefined to deal Doug Christian, photograrhy editor ana Chris formerly served as president of
Sophomore

exclusively with the editorial content of the Stewart, features editor, wil begin second terms Regina Hall. This year's Stu· newspaper. The primary duty of the managing in their positions. Christian, a junior from dent Body treasurer and vice 
editor is the coordination of the news, editorial, Jenkintown, PA, is a philosophy major. Stewart, weekend president of Student Affairs fe~tures, sports and photograph~ departmen~s. also a junior, resides in Peekskill, NY. He is a 
candidate Sheila Wixted is also
W1lson was formerly a News Editor and semor theology and government major. 
a junior. Junior Kathy
staff reporter. The Observer has also redefined its structure McGrath, a candidate for viceAnn Gales, also a former New!! Editor, will of the business and pr.oduction departments. successful president of Academic Affairs,
replace Mills as editorial editor. Gales, a These positions do not serve on the editorial by Margie Brassil was an advisor to last year'sgovernment major, resides in Glenview, IL. She board. 
StaffReporter Student Assembly. 

has also worked as a copy reader and a seniro Steve Odland, currently the managing editor, SBP candidate Pia Trigiani is
staff reporter. Gales is a junior. . has been appointed business manager. This a English/Humanities
The Saint Mary's Sophomot e juniorMike Lewis, a Nashvtlle, IN, native and position is responsible for the coordination and Parents' Weekend was termed maJor and is presently serving 

presently a news editor, has been appointed the supervision of all departments .dealing with the a success by sophomore class on the Public Relations Comm­position of executive news editor. Lewis is business aspect of the paper. Odland has ittee. Describing her goals as
responsible tor the organization of the news w~rked for The Observer as an assistant night representatives with over 50 department. editor ap.d a night e~itor. A junior majoring in percent of the students' parents SBP, Trigiani commented, "I 
am totally committed to making
Mark Rust and Mike SHields, will assist Lewis accountmg, Odland IS from Denver, CO. attending the events this week­
the Saint Mary's student gov­as news editors. Rust, a sophomore, is seeking a TheJosttion of production manager, previous­end. 
"It was a well-planned, well­ernment into a viable, access­
double major in English and American Studies. ly he! by Mardi Nevin, will be filled by Tim ible working group. With yourShields, a JUnior,'is an American Studies major. ''Scoop'' Sullivan. ·A sophomore from Atlanta, organized and well-executed '·weekend that allowed us a help, we can electrify student
Rust and Shields currently ser-Ve as copy GA, Sullivan will supervise the nisht editors and readers and senior staff reporters. ~ypists. Previbusly, the supervision of night chance to interact with our government. '' Ellen Buddy, a junior from Dodge City, KS, editors and the coordination of the business classmates and it was ~rear for Junior Marybeth "Chip" will continue to serve as Saint Mary's Editor. department were both done by the managing our parents to be with their Dornback, a Communications 
major views the position of the 
Buddy, an education major, coordinates cover· editor. Sullivan is a finance major who currently daughters and to meet and works as a night editor and staff reporter. know their professors,'' vice president of Academic
age of all Saint Mary's activities. Buddy will be assisted by Margie Brassil. Brassil, a sopho­Kevin Mamon; a junior from Grand Rapids, McCandless resident Kate Affairs as "a channel of com­
munication between the facul­
more from Westchester, IL, is currently a mght MI, has been appointed controller. Manion, an Leonard said. editor and staff reporter. Brassil will not serve accounting major, will assume the responsibili­. The ~eekend began Friday ty, the administration and the 
on the editorial board. ties of John Tucker, currently the business mght with the play, ''An Even· students of SMC.'' Dornback manager. currently serves as president of 
Kathy Connelly wi-ll replace Phil Cackley as ing of Entenainment,'' written copy editor. Connelly, a junior from St. Paul, Bob Rudy, will retain his present position as by Sophomore Class President Holy Cross Hall. Rounding out MN. has been a senior staff reporter and copy advertising manage..r. Rudy, a junior from Adri Trigiani and co-directed by Trigiani' s ticket is Kathy 
. reader for The Observer. The copy editor is in Bi~ghamton, NY, Is a finance and government Trigiani and Rosalie Bellanca. Sweeney, a sophomore Govern-. charge of all copy readers and works on the maJor. [continued on page 4] [continued.on page 4] 

1­


News in brief 
New Orleanspolice return to work after endingstrike 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)--Police in New Orleans returned to work yesterday after a 15-day strike. But they did so only after rejecting on Saturday the city's final contract offer. Yesterday Mayor Ernest Morial said that action will cost the police recognition of their union by the city and the blanket ~nesty they asked for patrolmen who stayed on the picket hoes. 
New York protesters call Mayor Koch ''racist ' ' 
NEW YORK (AP)--Police escorted New York Mayor Edward Koch out of a noisy community meeting in Harlem yesterday after about 100 protestors called him a racist and at least one person threatened him. In reply to the charges, Koch said, "People who make false charges of racism are as evil as racists." The mayor and the black community have been at odds for some time over reorganization of ami-poverty programs and proposed budget cuts. 
Seabrook Nuclear Plant sale causes controve-rsy 
CONCORD, New Hampshire (AP)--Public Service Company of New Hampshire said Saturday it wants to sell 30 percent o{ its ownership of the controversial Seabrook Nuclear Plant. lf that happens, a state consumer official says the company should stop charging customers for the construction of the facility. Harry Judd, acting head of the Legislative·Utility Consumers' Council, said today he'll ask the State Public Utilities Commission to keep public service from putting customer payments toward Seabrook. 
Begin hopes to give answer concerningpeaceproposal 
WASHINGTON (AP)--Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin says he hopes to have a response to President Carter's new peace proposals -before he leaves the United States. Carter offered the proposals yesterday in a new effort to get the Egyptian-Israeli peace talks moving again. In the meantime, the White House says Carter will review the situation with Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. So far, there's been no public announcement of what the new proposals contain, but one Israeli official describes them as "important and interesting." 
Voyager Icloses in on Jupiter 
PASADENA, California (AP)--Scientists at the Jet Propul­sion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA, say it's "the day before Christmas." The "Voyager One" SJ!acecraft is on its way to Jupiter and it's expected to pass wtthin 173-thousand miles of the planet's cloud cover today. The NASA scientists say Voyager's cameras will pick up features as small as five miles across. 
.Weather 

Cloudy and cool today with a chance for snow flurries. Highs in mid 30s. Partly cloudy and cool tonight. Lows in the mid 20s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow. High in the upper 40s. 

s 
9:30-4_p.m.--ENGUSH ASSN. BOOK SAL11 hard cover and 
paper f)ack books reduced 20-50 %, GREA1 HAll O'SHAG 
4 p.m.--WORKSHOP, "summer job search," STUDENT ACTIVITIES CONFERENCE RM, LE MANS HAll 
4:30 p.m.--MEETING amnesty international, LA FORTUNE BALLROOM 
7 p.m.--MEETING, inpirg, RM. 2-d LA FORTUNE 
7:~ Q.m.--FILM, "identification mark: none," WASHING1 TONl-iALL $1 
8 p.m.--SOPH. LIT FETIVAL, playwright david mamet, MEM. LIB. AUD. · 
8 p.m.--LECTIJRE "the develo.pment of em_ployment
poltcy," by dr. charles_killingswonfi, GALVIN AUD. 
Monday, March 5, 1979 -page 2 
In early morning accident 


Car strikes Notre Dame student 
by]ohn McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
A Notre Dame sophomore was injured badly early Saturday' morning when he was struck by a car on Notre Dame Avenue near the Morris Inn. 
A Sf~okesman for Notre Dame Securtty reported that Mark KeUey was struck by a car travelling toward campus on Notre Dame A venue at 1: 11 am. 

NDplans to boycott Nestles 
by Sue Wuetcher Senior StaffReporter 
The University is definitely going to implement the student referendum thar calls for a boycott of Nestles produqs, according to John Dunbar, World Hunger Coali~ion spokesman. 
Dunbar, who met with Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear last week, said "I think the decision was m'ade some time· ago to go ahead with the boycott if certain conditions were met by the coalition, and a majority of the student body voted in favor of the boycott.'' _ 
The conditions specified by Van Wolvlear included that objective articles covering both sides of the issue by published in The Observer, oral presenta­tions be made to the students by representatives of both sides of the issue, and a pro and con information sheet be made available to the students. 
Dunbar noted that he talked with Robert Robinson, senior food service director, who said that he would go ahead with plans for the boycott as soon as he hears from Bro. Kiernan Ryan, assistant vice president for business affairs. Robinson said diat he had some Nestle's products in stock and would use them before switching to another brand. 

The Observer 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editors: Patsy Campbell, Pam Degnan Copy Readers: Debbie Dahrling, Mike Ridenour Layout Staff: Rod Beard Editorial Layout: Margie Brassil Features Layout: Greg Hedges Sports Layout: Paul Barry Mullaney TyP,ists: Kim Convey, Beth Willard, Bill Swift, Katie Brehl Early Morning Typist: KC Day Editor: Manheth Moran Ad Layout: Joe Murphy Photographer: john Macor 
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Njltre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year [$10 per semester[ from The Observer. P.O. box Q,'Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Nolre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~-· 
..........-.. .•. -................. p.-~#..,.-........ 
~ 
Kelley is listed in satisfactory 
condition at St. , Joseph's 
Hospital :with a fractured right 
leg. . 
Kelley explained that he and a friend were returning from an off-campus party at a residence on St. Peters Street when the accident occurred. 
''We had just walked through the Angela light,'' Kellev said. "I was walking side by side with a friend, but a little behind him. Then he looked over his shoulder and screamed something, and the car hit me." 
• Kelley said that he was walking on the right side of the road when the car struck him. 
''The weird thing about it is 



nothing· to do? 

Want to workfor the 
OBSERVER? 
starting immediately, openings are available on the advertising sales staff. the staffis paidon a 
commission basisto sell ads . it'sgood experience 
check it out ! ! 
call Bob at 7 471 to set up an interview 
.........-..·_.·_ .
.-.-.......... 4 ...........~ ........-~-.-.. -.... ~ .. -.....­

that my right leg was broken, but my left leg was the one on the side nearest the car --I must have been spun around,'' Kelley said. 
. The accident comes at a bad 
time  for  Kelley,  who  is  a  
candidate  for  Junior  Class  
president.  • .  

"I don't think they'll let me out until Wednesday," Kelley remarked. ''But I might have to wear a cast through the summer.'' 
"Neither of us were drunk," Kelley stressed. "We were walking on the road because the sidewalk wasn't plowed." 
A similar accident was reported to have occurred one week earlier i11 the vicinity 

Hesburgh calls for changes in political 
e e e 
prtortttes 
by Ann Gales News Editor 

The problem of fulfilling basic human needs for all men is "not a question of technol­ogy, but one of priorities," University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh told a small audience in the Center for continuing Education auditor­ium yesterday. 
"We don't lack the science or technology required to solve the problem, we just lack the political will,'' he explained. 
Hesburgh's remarks came in the concluding lecture of the Student Government-sponsored Less Developed Countries Con-­ference. A charter member of the U.S. Civil Rights Commis­sion and current chairman of the United Nations Council on Science and Technology, Hesburgh addressed the topic of "Moral and Ethical Respon­sibility to Our Fellow Man.'' 
Speaking specifically to the students in attendance, Hesbursh commented, ''Your generation is in an absolutely unique situation compared to any other generation of human­ity." 
"Since humanity began, we've been having a terrible time fulfilling basic human needs of food, shelter, educa­tion and freedom,'' he contin­ued. ''Your generation is different because for the first time in the history of mankind, you have the chance to do something about it.'' 
Hesburgh pointed out that the world spent $400 billion on armaments last year, adding that "every country is presently spending more on armaments than on health and education.'' Solving the problems of world hunger, illiteracy, dis­ease and housing will reguire ''political organization, political will, and priority changes in allocation of resources,'' Hesburgh said. Man will have to decide that to "feed people and give them a little hope is ·more important than spending 
billions on armaments.'' 
Hesburgh used Iran, a coun­try with an enormous income, as an example, saying that the Shah spent more on sophisti­cated arrmaments than on im­proving t~e stan_d~rd of living 
for  Irantan  ctuzens,  and  
''wound  up  losing  his  own  
people.''  

Hesburgh related several in­cidents of his own experience in travelling and workmg in less developed countries, referring_ specificallY. to the problems of housing, Illiteracy and lack of medical care. 
"Every Latin American city I've ever been to was surround­ed by miles and miles of huts that we wouldn't put farm animals in,'' Hesburgh said. "They're human beings the same as we are, but they're living in huts made of flattened tin cans." 
According to Hesburgh, one 

University Pre$ident Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. djscus.s;ed the realignment Q(pn"orities at the Less Developed Countn'es Conference last nzght. [photo by john Macor.f · 
Dr. Hooks discusses black rights 
by Maureen Heraty StaffReporter 
Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks, ex­
ecutive director of the NAACP, 
gave a talk on black rights and 
black accomplishments Satur­day night in Washington Hall. The Black Cultural Arts Center ·sponsored Hook's appearance 
as part of the black culture 
festival. 
A crowd of 100 people listen­
ed to Hooks' description of the 
NAACP's accomplishments. 
Hooks related that the Civil 
Rights movement had pro­
foundly changed' the lives, of 
America1. blacks. 
Hooks used his own life as an 
example of the changes insti­
tuted by the civil rights move­
ment and the subsequent 
NAACP. 
He explained that he had left 
the South to attend a law school 
in the Midwest because no southern law school would admit him. Sixteen years later, his hometown of Memphis, TN, appo~nted him as judge in the ctrcult court. 
In his speech, Hooks caution­ed blacks against militancy. "We don't want bitterness, vindictiveness or hatred,'' he explained. He added that blacks should strive for equal recognition among whites, but in away that would not alienate the two races. 
Hooks asked the blacks to remember their heritage "\YJ,. forget the pain and the --:.. ,:,, the trouble and the sorrow, and the men and women who made sacrifices," he stated. 
He regretted that ''when it comes to black history, we have been written out of the books. Many ofus do not know who we are.'' 
Hooks outlined the problems that blacks face today. He cited the Alan Bakke case as a setback in the Civil Rights movement. A white man, Bakke had sued a medical school in California because he believed that the school had accepted blacks less qualified than him in order to Increase state aid to the school. Hooks blamed Bakke's victory on the "wave of conservatism" that has swept the country. 
Hooks insisted that whites should allow blacks the chance to grow and develop their 
·.;;abiiilies. "In 1979, we're 
. ·inanding that cl-t~nce. We're 
[continuea on pa1!.r 10] 
Buy Classlfleds ftom 
The ·Observer 
billion peoJ;>le in the world today are functionally illiterate. "They can't even read the directions on a package of seeds," he remarked, adding that ''illiteracy is the end of growth.'' 
Hesburgh stressed that the technology required to do some thing about the problem of illiteracy is available. "You can sit in your home and watch someone· walk on the moon. We have the technology to do spectacular things,'' he stated. "The .fact is we're not doing them. 
The United States isfresent­ly spending billions o dollars on health research each year, but it is mostly aimed at heart disease and cancer--America's two biggest killers, Hesburgh pointed out. "On the other hand, only about $6 million per year is spent researching all tropical diseases," he said. 
"Human misery is endemic on this earth," Hesburgh com­mented. "It comes mostly from a lack of political mobilization. We are doing a little, but what we're doing amounts to putting band-aids on cancers." 
"In answer to the question of what our moral and ethical responsibilit}' is, I think that was answered a long time ago when God asked Cain where 
Abel was. Cain answered, 'Am 
I my brother's keeper?' If you read the New Testament care­fully, I think you'll conclude that the answer is yes." 
Program to deal with issue ofgaysatND 
Four members of the Gay 
students of Notre Dame will 

In a question-and-answer period following the lecture, 
· Hesburgh responded to ques­tions about American and Uni­versity investments in South Africa, commenting, "I dis­agree with some of our faculty on this issue. I think they trnd to romanticize and exaggerate the problem." 
-''I spent two weeks of my life, which is not that free, 
. investigating the situation and talking with University direc­tors and black leaders m South Africa," Hesburgh revealed. "I came out with the idea that no matter what we did we weren't going to affect things that much.'' 
American business in South Africa amounts only to about 15 percent.of total business there, Hesburgh pointed out. "We are small potatoes in Soutl-­Africa. If we pulled our tomorrow, the only thing that would happen wpuld be that a lot of blacks who now have jobs would find themselves unem-· ployed." 
Also, he said, the ] apanese would probably buy all the American busmesses, which would only complicate the pro­blem. "I don't want to pull out. I want to stay in and fight," he concluded. 

MOI,..TUrES, 7·1 a 
ladies nitewe 
FRIDAV .25•.,..,. 11:3o-12:3o 1
ml•dnite 
011

appear on the program Straight liiiiiliiiiiiilii____iitp;.iii~~-· Talk. The two part program, o 'f d b · which will focus on the issue of , ~...
.. • ''• N;~ sJcI homosexuality at Notre Dame, grads will air tomorrow on channel 34 ~.... -..........;' .::orner of Eddy at 6:30p.m. and re-broadcast at and Sou1h Ben.Q 11 p.m. The second part will air Special prices for thoae on Wednesday at the same showing ticket atubs after ACC 
times. athletic events 
• 

The Observer Monday, March 5, 1979 -page 4 
WSNDnames

NAVY OFFICER. YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY '79-'80staff ... SLF 
THE MOMENT YOU The WSND staff for the 
GET THE STRIPES. 
A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding 
title. 

But how many offer you a really important job? 
In the Navy, you get one as soon as you earn your com­
mission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill 
and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because 
it's also an adventtn'e. 
If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to your 
local recruiter. Contact: . 
Ifthat's the kind ofjob you're looking for, speak to the Navy Officer Programs Officer who will be on campus, in the Placement Office, on the 8th &.9th of March. Or give us a call anytime at (312) 657-2234, 
'79-'80 school year was announced and it will be headed by new Station Mana­ger Jim O'Brien. 
Ray Kalusa will be AM Program Director with Cathy Murray assuming the role of News Director. Director of Production Engineering is Tom Nessinger and Paul Stauder will remain as Sports Director. 
Mike Yuhas is the new Technical Engineering Director with the FM Program Director still open for anyone interested. 
, 
All are juniors with the exception ofNessinger who is a freshman. 


Applications for 

STUDENT UNION 
Commission Comptrolers may be picked up at the S.U. Office beginning mat. 5 duemat.8 intetviews mat. 11 
questions? call7757 
.,1;\'_-7::>~--'' 
·~·.. "'-"'\·. '~ 
...,... 
·.. ::~:..~.:;: ; .~-~..! ~ ~·~ '""' 
.. : .. ,.... . ·::-~ 
·. ~. ',:•·.
. . ,.
~ 
··. 
. . :': !, \~\· ~ 
.. i'· 
:. ···~ ~·. ·~: •. 

(Any morning, Monday through Friday 6:00a.m. to 11:00 a.m.) Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear. and, nobody gives 


you more for your· money. Nobody. 
1. EGGS 
Two Grade A. extra large eggs served with hash browns. buttered toast. and jelly. 
2. FRENCH TOAST 3. WAFFLES Four half slices served One waffle 
served with twowith two strips strips of baconof bacon or 
or two porkies. (Offer ends Apnl 30. 1979) 
two porkies. 


4. PANCAKES 
Three pancakes served with two strips of bacon or two porkies. 
[continued from page 1] 
to poems written before the after the death of his father in 1976. 
Ginsberg sung the poems "Don't Grow Old" and "Father Death Blues'' with the accomp­animent of a harmonium ana a guitar, played by Nptre Dame senior Steven Podry. Throu~h these reflections, he dealt wtth certain as~,>ects of his life, including hts homosexuality. 
Other poems in the perfor­mance included such subjects as punk rock, more detailed versions of his homosexual experiences and reflections on his life. 
A native of New Jersey, Ginsberg graduated from Columbia College in 1948. He was one of the original poets of the "beat generation" andIor "San Francisco Renaissance" literary phases. 
He is noted for his experi­ments with poetic effects of psychedelic drugs with Dr. Timothy Leary in the Cambridge experiments in the 1950s. 
Tomorrow's guest of the Sophomore. Literary Festival is playwright David Mamet. He will speak at the Library Audi­torium at 8 p.m. 

• • • Weekend 
[continued from page 1] 
The play centered around six Saint Mary's girls who were going home for a weekend for various reasons. A Southern belle was attending a debutante ball, the daughter of a senator was returning home for a press conference, one girl's family performed a dance in Madison Garden with the remaining three girls of Jewish, Italian and Irish backrounds provided more comic relief. 
The Salvation Sophomres, directed by Cathy Gorman, provided backround music for the play. 
A reception in Stapleton Lounge followed the perform­ance. The room was croweded as performers, students and parents mingled over cham­pagne and pastries. 
Saturday's events began with an address by College Presi­dent John Duggan welcoming the parents and commending the value of a liberal arts education at Saint Mary's. An open house with the faculty enabled parents to spenk with various representatives of every department at the college. 
The Convention Hall at the Century Center was decorated with red and white flowers for­the dinner dance Saturday evemng. The band "Don Carone'' performed following the dinner. Over 860 parents, sophomores and their dates attended the affair, which was 
the  biggest  success  of  the  
weekend.  
Fr.  Edward  Krause  of  

Campus Ministry celebrated mass Sunday morning in the Church of our Lady of Loretto with the help of the chapel choir directed bl]oyce Schemanske. A farewel bruncheon followed the mass in the dining hall. 
'Michelle Taylor commented on the weekend, "My parents had a great time. All the parents got a chance to know our friends here at college and to meet our professors.'' 
This Sophomore Parents' Weekend had the greatest attendance of any past week­enq said Peggy Blum, Weekend Chairwoman. "All sophomores who so willingly and capably gave of their time and energy made it a great success." 
Buy Classifieds from 
The Observer 
., 

, , , SMCelections 
[continued from page 1J 
ment/Humanities major. She is a candidate for vice president 
of Student Affairs.  A previous  
member  of  the  Freshman  
Council, Sweeney  now  serves  

as Council Advisor. "My goal is to create a spirit em­bodies not only a well-rounded social life, but also an equal emphasis· UJ?On the effective athletic, spintual, and residen­tial directives." 
The G I oc k n e r-Wixted-McGrath ticket stresses the importance of a campus news­paper that would ultimately close the gap between students and administration. The improvement of security, the development of the Social Commission and the need for a RA representative on the Board of Gover'lance are also major points on the Glockner ticket. 
Basing their campaign on "pride in SMC and its student body," the Trigiani-Dornbach-Sweeney ticket is developing their platform on five directives that encompass student life at 
ic, athletic and spiritual pro­grams. ~ Some of the major highlights of the Trigiani campaign in­
elude representation at depart­mental meeting5 by the vice president of Academic Affairs, 
a revised intramural program, voluntary sign-out procedures and an "adopt-a-nun" pro­g~am.. Trigian~. calls the five dtrecnves a no nonsense approach." 
A public forum will be held Wednesday at 6 p.m. in LeMans Hall. The student body is invited to meet . the candidates, hear their presenta­dons and question their plat­forms. · 
elections will be held on Monday, March 12. Students who are unable to vote on Monday should contact Noreen Bracken (5419) or Cari Trousdafe (5307) to arrant;e for an absentee ballot. 
The student body including seniors are encourage to help promote the gener.al spirit and well-being of Sai!lt Mary's by 

·~.-..r.·;,.··;.w;;.;-·~;·tii~iii.iiiiiiliiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiil-lii"'"ili'iii-~-~--ii~;M;Iii;l...iiiiiliiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--iiiiiiiwiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiliiiiiliiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiliiliiiliiliiiiiiiiiiii~.-..-•....._silloallilinliltliiM.,..a,;.ry-'sllitaii'n..clu.,ding•a•c•a-dem-....,v_o_t,.,in.,g,....ne•x•t•w•e•ek•_ _....,.,..._ 
1111 011011011 11111111111111 011 11111111
... . 



.-------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
Concerning underdeveloped countries 
• 

Goulet discusses problems at le~ure 
by Donna Teevan 

"Perspectives on the Third World," a lecture by Denis Goulet, opened the ftrst Less Developed Co"untries Conference Friday night in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Goulet stressed that ''there are no pre-existin~ recipes" for relieving deprivation in under­developed countries to an audience that included student-representatives from 11 colleges across the nation. 
Before introducing Goulet, Student Body President Andy Mckenna, who stressed the need for creating a Third World Conference as part of his SBP platform last year, stated that the goals of the conference were "to educate us about urgent J>roblems, to provide models for solutions, and to facilitate group discussion about these problems.'' Tbe conference was sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Government. 
Goulet, a senior fellow on the Overseas Development Council, described under­development as "chronic vulnerability.'' He exr,lained that this vulnerability is 'a lack of power and an absence of ho_pe that you can change thmgs--creating an atmosphere of despair." 
He asked the audience to "imagine the type of home that you're used to living in, then transform yourself into a person living in a less developed country. There would be no electricity, sewage,' furniture, windows, and perhaps not even a roof to keep the rain out.'' 
The grimness of this poverty "breeds complacency and unrealism in the affluent few who are surrounded by it, 11 according to Goulet. ''They begin to rationalize that destiny is irrational or that God is capriCious·, II he stated. He also noted that this type of rationalization is built into most political systems. · 
Goulet traced the attention given to the Third World in recent years to "the shock of underdevelopment and the consciousness that this need 
not be." He stated that this shock should "arouse a sense of 
responsibility,  which  is  
energetic  and  looks  to  the  
future,  rather than  guilt  that  

dwells in the l?ast. Since human misery 1s a human creation, it is reversible." 
Goulet described his own interpretation of ''the human imperative," the subject of a book by University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. One aspect of this concept, which Goulet describes as two-fold, is that people should "be the subjects of history rather than its objects; they should be making history.'' 
The second part of Goulet's "human imperative" is transcendence. It involves the respect for the dignity of the people by "allowing them to deftne their own developmental needs." 
Goulet em~hasized the need for creativity 10 approaching the problem of underdevelopment. He said that solutions do not come from "the drawing boards of strategists, but from experiments in day-to-day livmg. '' He deftned develop-


By Michael Ridenour. StaffReporter 
Another ''foreign substance'' was found in the food at the North Dining Hall Saturday as a student discovered an inch-long grasshopper in the bean salad at lunch. , 
It was the fifth complaint in less than a wek where a student or employee found a foreign substance, as dining hall managers call it, in the food. Last week, three worms were found in the corn with another complaint regarding a maggot believed to be in the bacon. 
The rash of complaints was termed "unusual" by Ronald Athey, Food Service director at the North Dining Hall. Athey, however, stated "it is not uncommon to ftnd a foreign substance in food. We have our employees check the food for foreign substances, but it is difficult to detect them 
sometimes." 
The grasshopper found was colored a dark red, the same color as the kidney beans used in the salad. According to Athey, "I believe the grasshopper was located with the canned kidney beans, thus the problem would originate with the packers not the Notre Dame Food Service." 
Athey said immediate action will be taken to resolve the matter of the canned kidney beans. Yet, he emphasized that a closer inspection by 
employees offood at the dining hall would be the only action that could be taken to stop the qverall rash of fmdings. 
Last week 300 pounds of corn had to be thrown out and 6 5 cases were returned to packers for inspection because of bore worms found. Athey said that there would be an inspection of the kidney beans to determine what action would be taken. 
The student who discovered the Jrasshopper while at the sala bar is a roommate of one of the students who found a bore worm in the corn last week. 
NDLawyer
. 
/ 
Promotes RussellAlba 
The staff of the Notre Dame 
Lawyer  has  announced  that  
Russell  T.  Alba  has  been  
selected  as  Editor-in-Chief of  

Volume 55 of the Lawyer. Alba will assume his duties in May. 
mental politics as "the art of • creatin~ and testing new ' possibiltties." 
Among the methods that Goulet claimed were successful in improving conditions in impoverished nations, was a program which encouraged self-help. This was achieved primanly by a ''new Interpretation of traditional values," which gave the people a new sense of pride, accordmg to Goulet. 
Since "most oppressed people have no access to the controls of the nation,'' Goulet stressed the need for the ''creation of leverage points'' at the local level. 
He illustrated the possible strength of a local community by relating how a northern Malaysian fishing village rebelled against a government­imposed development plan and formulated theu own plan in which they incorporated 
modern technology into their traditional way of life. 

TRAVEL SCHOOLS J•HRUTIOUL 
Vocational Training for 
Travel Careers 

•TRAVEL AGE:NT •AIRLINIE AQ.:NT 
•CRUISE: LINE RE.PAIESII:NTATIVI: 
•TOUR OPIE.RATORS 

-A 12 Week Course ­Taught in 
EUROPE 

fur travel jobs in the U.S.A. 
THE CLASSES SPEND 5 WEEKS IN EACH OF' FOUR CITIES: 
Stratford-upon-Avon. Gothenburg Heidelberg, Florence 
YOUR TRAVEL TRAINING WILL QUALIFY YOU FOR EMPLOYMF;NT ANYWHERE IN THE U.S.A. 
SST Travel School• International 18601 Pac. Hy. So. Seattle, WA 98188 
Call toll free for brochure (8001 426-5200 


AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Rockne Memorial Pool Swim Against Cancer sponsored by Notre Dame Circle KClub 
DATE: March II, 1979 TIME: lOam to Ipm 
for information callAmerican Cancer Society 212 S. St. Peter St. 234-4097 South Bend, lnd 46617 
RECORD Disttibution 
will be DELAYEDONE WEEK 
due to gteatetthan expected volume. Dlsttlbutlon SWAMPED will bethe week of 

match 12. We ate sottyfotan!J Inconvenience. 


• 


Monday, March 5, 1979 -page 6 
Editorials 

••·. Titmuss' ''moral choice of giving'' to the present 
It would not be too presumptuous to apply

~ 
~~i6H~~t~i circumstances where campus organizations are tntrt&tch:anjg¢; seeking approval of a ban on various products 
such as Nestle's chocolate and Libby's tomatoes. Is it not curious that these groups, which profess stron~ "moral" reasons for -taking an 


Politics, Protest and Freedoni 
Editor's Note: The following is the first of a two-part column dealing with "Politics, Protest and Freedom" in terms of Boycotts. The second part will appear in tomorrow's editorial page. 
Recently, friends and acquaintances of mine became deeply involved in a debate over the merits of . an attempt by several campus organizations to set-up a ban of products of certain American and foreign corporations. The effort at banning would resemble that made several years ago involving the use of union, non-union lettuce. Essentially, these organizations seek to gain majority approval through referendum (of plebecite) of a ban on the use of these products by Notre Dame Food Services. In the following essay I would like to examine these efforts at banning from two perspectives. In the first instance, I owe a great deal to Raymond Titmuss and his work, The Gzft Relationship (1971). In the second, Alexis de Tocqueville and his Democracy in America serve as a source of inspiration. 
Timuss' work deals with a study of the ¥arious ways and means politics have dealt with the problem of the dtstribution of blood in their respective societies. His analysis yields three frameworks for distrib:.1tion: a command system (Soviet Union), a free market system (U.S.) and a volunteer system (Great Britain). It is the last two systems which interest Titmuss the most, and from comparing and contrasting them both he arrives at his thesis: the notion of the gift relationship. Titmuss points out that the volunteer system of Britain is far and away the most successful means of guaranteeing a high quantity as well as quality of blood. The author singles out the notion of voluntarism as being the single most important reason for the success of this program. Titmuss expllains the failure of the free market system and the success of the volun\eer system: 
''(In the free market system). all policy in the end would become economic policy and the only values that would count are those that can be measured in terms of money and ~ursued in the dialectic ofhedonism. Each indivtdual would act egotistically for the good of all by selling his blood for what the market would pay" (p. 12) 
Essentially, as Titmuss points out, the private market system ''deprives men of their freedom to choose to give or not to give." This deprivation not only abolishes the moral choice of giving but by so doing, it escalates other coercive forces in the social system which lead to the denial of other freedoms. For Titmuss, obviously, economics is not everything. The use of coercwn (USSR) or material benefits (U.S.) not only fails to provide for a successful system of distribution of blood, but it also denies the individual the gift relationship: the moral choice of giving. ­
eorCHA. I Na NO, ~ C()(JRSC 


I AM? IA/HJV SHC: FOL/..OIJJS
f}()N'T REA/../..Y NOT. YW JU5T8£ 
HAPPEN£!) 70 Vfllj1 
HAVE 1D /?&A[) YOlRSE/..F. YOIJ'Re 
TH& Wl[)(}t(l {ljf{) :JXNUM~
AlLOF7HfSE OUR. ACE IN THe 
WA9C!J NINE ON& (jl/N/
CRJMe-STOPPeR.. HOlE, MR.. OUI<E! 
MU6(£RS'f 1 . 


action resultmg m the removal of these 
products, would at the same time deny their own 
supporters the right to ''choose to give up or not 
to give up" usmg those products every day, 
three times a day? 
In other words, if supporters of a "boycott" are serious in their efforts to register their moral outrage at the .(>Olicies of these corporations, why do they instst upon a device (the "ban" which differs in nuance from the boycott) which allows them to escape, so easily, the resronsibility of free choice? Is it because they fee that their own supporters lack in "gumption" or integrity to such an extent that they would fail to be responsible to their own moral decisions? Or, is it because they believe that in order to gain their objective, lt will be necessary to coerce others (i.e., everyone in the commumty who may not be a supporter, for various reasons) into their "boycott' as well? If this be the case, we are reminded of Titmuss' argument: that when the moral choice of giving is denied this tends to initiate other, more coercive means in the social system to accomplish an objective. 
But such coercive alternatives tend to deny other freedoms as well. In this case, the successful imposition of a ban on certain products would deny those who do not wish to boycott those products ther freedom to act otherwise. The desire to initiate the more coercive means of banning as opposed to the more voluntaristic means of boycotting may be viewed by the banning organizations as a necessary evil. But is it necessary? Is it not possible, in theory at least, that the goals of a boycott, if supported by a committed maiority (or minority for that matter), can be achteved without imposing on the good of others? 
The World Hunger Coalition offers us an example whereby much is achieved through the effort of a boycott of ~orts as opposed to a condition of absolute denial. A WHC member chooses to ~ive up a meal on Wednesday evenings. Thts is a distinctly moral act because it involves a personal decision of self-denial. But what if WHC decides to hold a referendum which would result in a ban on all meals on Wednesday evenings. What happens to the personal decision of self-denial? It is certainly no longer a moral decision because the individual no longer decides between the real choice of eating a meal or not. And choice by referendum is choice in the abstract only, since · the abolition of alternatives (i.e., when all meals are banned on Wednesday night~) is the abolition of choice. The realm of moral decision is removed, freedom abridged. But, we should note that in this case, although only a minority of students choose self-denial, the Wednesday night fast has been a success in terms of its specific moral purpose: to bring others to an awareness of hunger in the world. 
Of course, the object of the banning ·of organizations may not be simply to make others aware of the immorality of certain corporations .. It may be an attempt to pumsh these corporations as well. But with this we must necessarily move to a sphere ofactivity that goes well beyond moral obJectionism. It is a spere that is best characterized by obedience, coercion and authority. It is the spere of oolitical action. 
Barry 0 'Connor 

of either -institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reponed as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 
_The Observer_ 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ...•........ Ray 0 'Brien Box Q .Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the .Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ..... ·.... Chns Stewart 
Board. .Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb wnghenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa· letters are the views of rheir authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to· all mem­Copy Edito; ... : ........ Phil Cac/lley Production Manager ...... lviardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Samt bers of the communitv, and the free Samt Mary s Ed1toF . . . . . . Ellen Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tu_cker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying o'pinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of th« administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
Monday , March 5 , 1979 -page 7
Features 
Alcoholic Debauchery 
To Be An Artist 

17 Major in Gorbyi$1H.'!' 
I'mno"mewhanheworo"ani.r" , means. It sc;ems, however, that the'T'he "Tfa,1Lin~a Ue·ad· .·.. activities of artists are as multifarious 
.L i .1. l If( o 11.• 

One advantage of this university that you won't read about in Notr~ Dame Ma~azine is its close J?-toxi(llity to many 'rooms and establishments whose main feature is a counter at which alcoholic beverages are served." While freshmen seem content to frequent section parties, something happens to most swdems in the course of sophomore years. They are attracted to those rpoms an~ establishments like. alumni .to a11; ~ail• gater. Eventually the campus be~ comes too confining, and the student's horizons are broadened to the far corner of Eddy St. and South Bend Ave. 
One Thursday night I set out to uncover what makes the bars so appealing. .. My first . SJ9P :was Corby's, a drafty, moderately sized, establishment done in Early American Speaker.
111: Hi! What makes Corby's so appealing to you? Her: I can't hear yo~o~. You'll have co speak louder. TII: Why are you here.? .···· . •.. ·· ....•.•.• · Her: Sophomore. Wh~t year lil~Yo.u? TII: Do you see anythtng wrong wtth the bars here, anything major? . Her: Psychology. Wha't's.yours? 11-I: Are the bars like this where yob 
li~e? 
Her: Lewis. 
Not having a great deal of success~ l headed over to Nickie's, where 1 tried once again to engage in meaningful social interaqion. 11-I: Hi! Do you think conversations in rhe bars are too predictable? Her: Sophomore. What year are you? TH: Have you ever made a lasting friendship with anyone you me~ at a bu? · Her: Psychology. What's yo\U"S~ as the kind and number of artists there are. ·For ~~me p~ople being an artist means wnttng a volume of poems or painting a large number of water­colors. Other people may never think 
of themselves as artists, and yet they certainly deserve that distinction: whittling, a piece of redwood can be as artistic an activity as planting a garden 
······.or writing a poem. At one time art was a common activity--the shoemaker was as much an artist as the bookbinder or the cooper. People knew by heart their own local folk tales, and make their own furniture. They never formulated critical theories about what they were doing, and they had no interest in doing so. They didn't have to put into words how they felt about their activity--they just did it. Art is something I think everyone has an impulse to Participate, which is not to say that it is done equally well by all people. Perhaps it can be likened to being inquisitive. All of us have a fundamental inquisitiveness. Some people encourage this, cultivate this. 


• 

T. Peter 0 'Brien 
Other people have little respect fo~ it. Perhaps artists are those people who encourage their natural inquisitive­ness. It may be we can never know the answers, but we must, as Rilke says, "learn to love the questions them­selves.'' 
The Senior Arts Festival is an encouragement for people who do things. You may consider yourself an artist, you may not. That's not important. Wh.flt is important is that you give something of yourself to what you do. 
The three dimensional portion of the festival is now in the process of searching for the work of seniors. Someone once told me the business of art is to make art. If you are particularly pleased with something you've made--a bookcase, or a weaving, or a metal sculpture, or anything--and would like to share it with others, then the festival would like to hear from you. We alread )' have various things submitted, a hand built dulcimer, pottery, weaving, sculpture. We're still looking for more. 
If you're interested in making any contributions to the three dimensional portion of the Senior Arts Festival, call me at 8852·, or during the day at 2133. 
Prayer: The Essence and the DangerFr.BmToohey 
It was a strange coincidence. At the very time The Observer was being distributed, with my last column on prayer, I was at the hospital with the parents and friends of Andy Sowder. His parents came up and asked me to fray with them. We joined arms. And 
began to wonder what to say. 
Permit me a bit of background by way of getting around to how I tried to answer their request. First of all, it seems worth emphasizing the fact that it is perfectly normal and acceptable to mention to God our needs and special wishes for others. Even though He is already aware of them it is still the spontaneous and natural things one does with a Father. 
The asking part is quite appropriate (the sort of things we see in so many of the psalms, for instance); and may prove very helpful as a lead-in to prayer, It is important to remember, however, that what I may call prayer for myself or for you isn't really prayer at all if it's a mere request, simply an asking. That's not the essence of prayer. As we emphasized last time, no matter how it is actually expressed, every prayer must have the form of a request ("Be merciful to me, a sinner"); m irs essence, however, it is more accurately r~cognized as an answer, an openinR, a surrender. 
The point rs clarified if we analyze the request of Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane. He very explicttly asked for a favor, that He might be spared sufferin~: "Father, let this cup pass me by.' But that wasn't prayer. The prayer came when Jesus added, "But not my will but yours be done." Here we on~erve the verbalization of His 
faithful surrender at that moment a most a~;>propriate articulation of "I believe 10 You." · 
The request to be spared death wasn't answered; but th~ prayer was. His prayer was, first of all, His own answer to the word of the Father, as Jesus perceived it through faith-­somethtng, we might speculate, like this: "Son, I do not want your painful cruciftxion. But I have determined that men should be free; so I ask that you accept the unavoidable conse­quences of your mission to reveal the kingdom.'' 
By His willingness to let go in prayerful surrenaer' Jesus opened Himself totally to His Father; thus His answer was answered with love. We detect this same concept of prayer in a remark Malcolm Muggeridge made in his book about Mother Teresa of Calcutta: "Pray, and your heart will grow big enough to receive Him." 
In the light of this, it's hard to think in terms of "praying for myself," in the sense of a method of getting an answer to requests. It is surely fitting to mention my needs to God; but7 if I truly pray, I am offering myself, not just my requests. Specific needs frequently are not answered, surren­der always is. In that sense, prayer is infallible. 
What I'm su~gesting here is the importance of dtstinguishing between requests and prayer. There's nothing w~ong with asking, even requestion miracles; but none of this is prayer unless there is that element of 
. surrender ("I believe in You"; "Not my will but thine be done'') we've been speaking about. 
So, although I wouldn't have hesi­rated to ask for a healing miracle for Andy Sowder, the prayer with his r.arents had a different kind of spirit: 
'Father, we believe you are a God of the living; we cannot understand what has happened; it is a mystery we cannot fathom. But we reaffirm our trust that you love Andy and desire everlasting joy for him. We believe this. Our expressing it has helped to open us to your presence, so that you might be able to support us at this ttme of our great need." 
What we've been saying about prayer discloses also its danger. If God &ives His spirit each time we really pray, it will change our lives. We can understand how C.S. Lewis could write: "We shrink from too naked a contact, because we are afraid of his divine demands upon us which it might make too audible.'' What we find' is this: With an old notion of prayer, a lot of people were inclined to leave their problems with God, unload their wants and needs upon Him ... and then go on living as if nothing had happened. 
That notion of prayer can weaken or detract from our service in the world. It can reduce our will to solve our own problems, by tempting us to leave in God's hands what has actually been placed in our own. For example, we may-be so out of touch with reality as to say to God, ''Please feed the hungry people," without realizing that, if we would only listen, God is saying to us, "Don't expect me to take on your ?.wn task; ybu feed the hungry people! 
Actually the evidence of the unan­
swered requests of those with whom I 
live points to the facr that I haven't really prayed. You see, God intends that, to a great degree, we should answer each other's requests. Say, for example, you ask for bread. If I have prayed, I will be led by the spirit given me to touch your life --to feed your hunger. God has answered your need by leading me to a new awareness and loving action. My lack of response to you, on the other hand, is a sure si~n that I haven't let Him into my life through prayer. 

Have you ever thought of this? If the enemies of ] esus had been men of prayer, Jesus' request to be spared cruciftxion would have been answered! The Father wanted His Son to be loved; but leaving men free, He took the risk they wouldn't permit His spirit into their lives, which would have guided them to spare His son. Consequently, prayer turns us out in service, answering the needs of others. 
What a marvel! So many have asked for liberation, freedom from oppres­sion and poverty; asked for breaad, jobs, decent housing, justice; asked for someone who will care. If they've prayed, while they express these needs, they' be been open to the gift of His spirit--and that's wonderful. But if we, too, have prayed, that same spirit will move us towards these needy brothers and sisters; and a praying people will reach out to one another. fsn' t that the meaning of that other prayer we pray: "Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your faithful; enkindle-within them the fire of your divine love. Send forth your spirit and they shall renew the face of the earth.'' 



The Observer Monday, March 5, 1979 -page 8 
Inelectiontomorrow 

Classes to cast ballots for officers 

ENGINEERS 

Let's be candid ... This is a pitch. we·re looking for talent. 
~ 

At Magnavox Government & Industrial Electronics Co., we want to hire the best engineers and computer scientists we can find. If you quality, and you're interested in a career with the world's leader in communica­tion sytems, Magnavox may be 
/'
. ...-/'
for you: 


That's because, in our business, an outstanding technical staff is the key to success. Magnavox has been remarkably sucpessful because we offer small company atmosphere with large company benefits and challenge! 
Hence the pitch, and this ad. If you like what you see here, get in touch. Maybe both of us will be glad you did. . 
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS: Tuesday, March 6, 1979 

Please contact your Placement Office or send your resume to: 
PROFESSIONAL PLACEMENT 


IYiagnaV"O~ 
Advanced Products Division (Magnavox Research Laboratories) 

2829 Maricopa St. Torrance, CA 90503 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
MeSally,  Ann Marie  Pierson,  
and Mike Onufrak.  
··Jim  Reidman,  Brian  

Murphey, Kelly Gaffney and Janice McCormack. 
The class of 1982 has three tickets running for office. Listed as above, the tickets are as follows: -·Steve Breummer, Thimothy Emmett Dages, Karen Alig and Missy Conboy. --Ruqy A. Fernandez, Megan Boyle, Paul Pisarski and John Lindeman. --Chip Gerhardt, Tim Sweeney, Tara Kenney and Terry Dunn. 
Campaigning began last Fri­day and will continue until , midnight tonight. Campaign­ing is defined under the elec­tion rules as "any public con­tact, especially the distribution of posters, buttons, ribbons, 

etc., and the making of Observer.) 
, ----------------!'1\!l!'"'--------., 
speeches used to solicit votes, except in the distribution of offictal petitions." 
A $50 limit on expenses was set for all tickets, including all donated materials. The only commodity that may be donated without being assess against a ticket is people's labor. Failure to disclose expenditures results in fotfeiture of candidacy.· 
Balloting areas on election day must be cleared of all campaign literature and ''vote getters.'' Candidates will be held responsible for the action of anyone in their campaign orgamzation. The Election committee reserves the right to be the final arbitrator in the case of disputes of the rules. 
Editor's Note:( Details on the candidates' platforms will be available in tomorrow's The 
to :y. tphoto y}onn Macor.) 


"JAG took me out of the classroom and into the courtroom." · 
You've chosen law because you know you've got the ability and the dedication to protect the rights of others But it can be hard to lind the opportun1ty to pract1ce 1n the courtroom what you·ve learned 1n the classroom. 
Think about the Navy Judge Advocate Genera! (JAG) program. In the JAG Corps you'll be a ·working· lawyer and the expenence you get w111 be on-the-spot-In the courtroom. 
The JAG Program is available to first and second year law students as well as those students 1n their final year of law schooL 
The opportunity i.; for real ... and so arc we. NAVY 
for rnore lllfornldtiOI\ ~ee 
L T Carolyn ,McLean Navy Recruiting D1strict Chicago Bldg. 41. NAS. Glenview, Glenview, IL 60027 (312) 657-2169 
··········•·•·········••·····•··•····•·••·•······•••·······•·••··· WSnO affi-~ffi IS nOW taktnCj applicatiOnS 
foR sus1ness manaqeR 
-must hav€ €xt€nSIV€ accountmq sackqRounb -thIS 1s a pa1b position call277-3446 ~OR b€tallS
. . 
··································································~ 

--Mark Kelley, Michael 
ROCCOS 
men's hairstyling

This Ftiday, match 9, 
I 
at comfortable prices

9-1 Stepan Center Sl.OO 
531 N. michigan 

featuring the band ' 'DANCER' 
233-4957
'\ 
by Maribeth Moran .StaffReporter 
Elections for class officers for the '79·'80 school year will be held tomorrow. Balloting will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. for on campus residents in their re­spective halls and from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Huddle for off-campus residents. In the event of more than two tickets running, the top two will have a run-off election on Thursday. 
Runnin~ for the class of 1980 are two uckets. ·Mark Carney heads the first with Mike Mitchell running for vice presi­dent, Tara Begley for secretary, and Beth Jones for treasurer. Opposing them are Nick Scheeman for president, Mary Reppa for vice president, Bob Carey for secretary and Tom 
Crotty for treasurer. 
Next year's junior class has five sets of candidates cam­paigning for office. Listed in order of president, vice preside dent, secretary and treasurer, the tickets are as follows: ··Tom Behney, Kevin Lovejoy, Jean Menom, and Mary Pat Ziolski. . --Ed Callahan, Joe Ginni, Debbi Romo and Jane Anderson. 



~ND  March 2,3,7,8,9,& 10  
SMC  8:00pm  
THEATRE  

SPRING'S AWAKENING 
A CHILDHOOD TRAGEDY BY Frank Wedekind 
Olaughlin Auditorium tickets $2.50 

michael &co. 
Hair Concepts 
(continued from page 12] 
left hook to register a 1cnockout at the 31 second mark of the first round. 
In what was probably the best fight of the afternoon, Joe Casey posted a unanimous de­cision over Tom Rizzo in the 162-pound class. Rizzo held the upper hand in the first round, as he staggered Casey with a right just before the bell. But Casey used several combina­tions to bloody Rizzo's nose in the middle round. Rizzo fought back, scoring with a flurry, but Casey was able to punch his way out, and then clinch his victory by knocking Rizzo to the canvas along the ropes. 
A pair of returmng finalists had a rough ~o of it in the 167-p~ound division. Tom Plouff, a native of South Bend, lost in his bid to return to the finals. Mike Budd used super­ior quickness to offset Plouff's reach and claim a unanimous decision. 
A similar fate nearly befell Jim Devine, last year's champ­ion at 162. Devine fought senior John Mandico to a standoff after two rounds, and it appeared as though ~andico had a shot at an upset victory on the strength of his agressive­ness in the final round. But D{"vine was awarded a split decision, which set off a chorus of boos from the crowd. 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, 
... Bengals 

with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
In another decision that was unpopular with the fans, 135­pounder John Fitzpatrick ad­vanced to the semi-finals over Steve Gill. Once again the fight was close, but Gill appeared much less tired near the bout's end. Fitzpatrick stumbled briefly several times, but held on for the split decision. 
The other quarterfinal pair­ing at 135 also ended in a split decision. Junior Bob Murphy made his early scoring stand up to gain the verdict over Michael Ruwe. Murphy held the upper hand for most of the first two rounds, but Ruwe began to counter-punch quite effectively late in the bout. 
Freshman Tom Bush dis­played a lightening KO punch 10 his first Bengal Bout appear­ance. After Jim Brown scored with a combination, Bush un­leashed a sledgehammer right that dropped Brown to the canvas at 0:48 of the second round. 
Other quarter-final winners were Chris Mac Donald (130), Jeff Mosher ( 140), Mike Mazurek (140), Walt Rogers (145), Steve Heidle (145), Jim Owens (145), Mark Roetzel (149), Dan Stockrahm (149), Brian Kilb (152), Jeff Mitroka (152), Steve Brown (152), Mike Norton (152), Steve Mynsberge (157), Mike Rukavina (157), Bruce Belzer (162), Glenn 

open late tues.-thura. 8pm
Pacek (162), Terry Rogers (162), Tom Flynn (167), Joe 

North 1h mile east of notte dame 
Cronin (167), Mike Pullano (177), Mike Mel binger (177), 

18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 
Matt O'Brien (177), and Neal 

South 2041 E.lteland at ltonwood
Elattrache ( 177). Action resumes Thursday 

master charge visa 291-1001
night, with 22 semi-final bouts, set to begin at 8 pm in the ACC. 
WITH 
YOUR SELF 
"m the midst of winter, I finally learned there was within me an invincible summer.''
•
"Be patient toward all that is unsolved in your heart and try to love the questions them­selves." 
• 
''You have made them little less than a god, you have crowned them with glory and splendor.'' 

[continued from page 121 
neither coach had reason to worry about receiving a tourney bid. 
''If I told you at the begin­ning of the season that we wo~·:d now be 22-4," offered Meyer, "you'd have told me I belong in the boobit" hatch." 
But nobody was telling that to Ray Meyer on Friday night. 
NOTRE DAME [721 · Woolridge 10 2·2 22, Trlpucka 3 2-2 8, Laimbeer 1o-1 2, Branning 5 o-1 10, Hanzlik 2 6-8 10, Jackson 4 4·5 12, Flowers 3 o-1 6, Mitchell 02·2 2, Wilcox 0o-o 0. ,-oTALS 28 16-22 72. 
DePAUL [761 • Watkins 9 3-3 21, Aguirre 5 5·7 15' Mitchem 2 1-2 5, Bradshaw 4 4·4 12, Garland 7 3·3 17, Madey 1D-2 2, Nlkita• ~ D-2 4. TOTALS 
30 16·23 76. . . 
... Demons 
Halftime · DePaul 34, Notre Dame 23. Team Fouls· Notre Dame 21, DePaul 24. Fouled Out · Watkins, Bradshaw. Technical : Notre Dame bench. Atten· dance -5,556. 
NOTRE DAME [59] • Trlpucka 2 2·2 6, Woolridge 3 o-o S, Laimbeer 2 o-o 4, Branmng 8 2-2 18, Hanzlik 5 1-3 11, Flowers 51-2 11 , Jackson 03·4 3, Wilcox OD-00, Mitchell 00-00. TOTALS 25 9-13 
59. 
MICHIGAN [621 • McGee 6 4·8 16, Heuerman 3 3-5 9, Hubbard 7 o-1 14, Bodnar 5 o-o 10, Lozier 2 3-4 7, Hardy 1 o-o 2, Staton 0 o-o 0, Johnson 2 o-o 4, Smith 0 o-o 0. TOTALS 26 1D-18 62. 
Halftime • Michigan 29, Notre Dame 
26. Team Fouls -Notre Dame 19, Michigan 17. Fouled Out • Hubbard. 
M~~-~~. ­
,. 
-, 
·' 


week one o~ lent 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~ 

SUGGESTIONS 


In your home, your dwelling, right where you live--spend this first week of Lent getting right with yourself. Go back to prayer. Visit the grotto twice a week. Spend two minutes in chapel after your evening meal before starting to "book it." 
Think back to the times in your life when you felt best about yourself and right with God ... they're always parallel. 
Affirm yourself every way you can: no downers. Your God is passionately in love with you. Be more "laid back" and let Him speak to you. Give him time. (And get some extra sleep; you deserve it.) 
'J;'he Observer-Sports Monday, March 5, 1979 -page 10 
... Hooks


[continued from page 3) 

going to take that chance because we're not going to let anybody turn us around," Hooks stated. 
Hooks urged blacks to take advantage of any educational opportunities available to them. However, he warned blacks not to concentrate on black studies. ''Why go to college to learn 
how to live in the ghetto?'' Hooks queried, continuing, ''I am in favor of black studies, but we should learn physics, math­ematics and philosophy.'' He said that education would en­able the blacks to "master the intricacies of our nation.'' 
Hooks proceeded to reaffirm the blacks' position in the nation and among other races. "I'm not better than any man, but neither am I inferior to any man who walks the face of this earth," he claimed. 
To conclude his lecture, Hooks demanded that America recognize the accomplishments 
of  blacks  in  America  and  
blacks'  contribution  to  
America's development.  

Molarity Michael Molinelli 
£V£P, READ THE H£ADJN6 · OF PAGE 'fZ IN TH£ 




f 
-~--~--~-­
•

The Observer-Sports Monday, March 5, 1979 -page 11 -
(continued from page 12] 
Friday's game, and not just The Wisconsin power-play goals to end the period. Scott ing a centering pass ftom tbe with Meredith," said Smith. again killed the Irish on Lecy scored two of them, his left corner, but tt bounced off "So Saturday we rested a few Saturday, but not before they third and fourth goals of the 
... leers Irish defense man John Schmidt people for the playoffs since we put up a fight. Trailing 2-1 game, to lead the Badgers the for a goal and a 2-0 Badger couldn't drop any "lower in the after one period, Steve rest of the way. lead. standings, anyway.'' Schneider and Jeff Perry took ---------·---­
suffer ''There was nothing Schmidt Laurion, feeling a little sick advantage of simultaneous pen­WCHA STANDINGS 
or I could do on the play,'' said before the game, did not dress alties to the Bad~ers for two W L T IPTS 22 10 0 44
Laurion. "We both made the Saturday and Smith used Greg ower-playJcoals m a minute. North Dakota
Minnesota 20 11 1 41
·setbacks, t
right play, but it just took a bad Rosenthal in goal. Besides hat gave otre Dame its only Mlnn.-Duluth 18 10 4 40bounce. It happens." Meredith, Steve Schneider was lead of the weekend with 15 Wisconsin 19 11 2 40 • • • · Laurion fimshed the game bothered by a sore ankle and minutes to play in the second NDOTRE DAME 17 14 1 35 with 32 saves, 14 in the third Scott Cameron had a badly · d enver 14 16 2 30 
. Michigan Tech 13 16 3 29
tnJurtes 
·period, while SchU,ltz made 27 bruised finger. Tom Michalek perw : . 
It dtd not phase Wtsconsm, • Colorado College 11 18 2 24stops, 12 in the final stanza. was also not at 100 percent due however, as the Badgers reeled Michigan State 12 20 0 24 "We were hurting after to a two-week old ankle injury. off three straight power-play Michigan 6 25 1 13 
All classified ads must be rece1ved by 500 p.m .. two days prior 
•

to the 1ssue in which the ad IS run The Observer office will accept
' 

c1ass1fieds Monday through Friday, 10 00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m All 
cla~>ifieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the ma11~
Classifieds . 
. 
Need ride to Buffalo or NiaWa Falls for 

Shelia & Jannell, Annie-Babe, 
sprln~ break. Will share In a I expenses. You're crazy, but very charming. You Now we're beginning to see, so now
Notices Wanted Call ean at 8037. can liven up our lives any time! we' II never leave SK, GM, & DB 
D.C. Club bus-all Jane 6804, Jay 3309, Wanted--ride for 3 to D.C. or Northern Need ride home for March break. Goln~ Gus Widmayer Is so ticklish-and In all Carl 3311 before 3n. II you need riders, VA for break. Can leave after 2pm on the West on 1-80 to Des Moines, Iowa. Ca I To Bunny Bun--Bun's Buddy ltllll VIta) the right places!
call Cart. 16th. Call Rod--8384 or leave note In Scourge 2136. Congratulations!Observer office. Love always, To Burb (Mike B(lrberlch)-The Rec1 Head ! 
Volunteer Tutors Needed! WANTED: riders to Central New Jersey. 
Wild Woman of my dreams. 
Like kids? Any aspiring young teachers WSND AM-FM Is now taking application We'll be heading east either Wednesday out there? Get some experience on a for business manager. Must have night (3/14) or Thursday morning (3/15). one-to-one basis and help a chile ~et a extensive accountlnf backround. This Is Call Joe (8460) boost In school and ccatch up wit his apaid position. Cal 277-3446 for details. classmates. Only requirement: 2 half Need ride to Fort Lauderdale for spring hour sessions a week for 10 weeks at Ride needed to Buffalo (Fredonia) for break. Call 5400 
nearby Madison Elementary School.. break. Call Joe 232-5377 after 5:30. Program aleady In progress. We need you now. Interested persons please BOSTON !I Need ride to Boston. Will contact Marilyn Bellis at 232-3438 or sue share expenses. Call John 1868 or 1857. Christensen at 288-7151 or Volunteer Services at 7308. I need ride to Newark, Delaware of 
·vicinity. Diane 3750 for spring break. 
!7688 on Za NlteJ. TWINS NEEDED: Non-diabetic, same-
Riders wanted to the Garden Stat~ (where sex fraternal twins 13-20 years old neede the air Is clean and the grass Is Breen). for study related to diabetes at Indiana Leavl~ late 3/14 or early 3/15. olng to Unlverslty Medical Center. Testing CENT AL N.J. Call Joe (8460) Includes 2 hour glucose tolerance test, 
dental exam. Each twin ecelves $20 and ATTENTION MAY GRADS all test results. For more Information FrldaM March 9, Is the last day to apply call, Cindy Burnett 317-264-2246. 
Interest due In 30 d~r· La ortune Basement 11:30-12:30 -F. FLORIDA! I Need ride to west coast of Florida-The Senior Arts Festival Is looking for Tampa/St. Pete area. Call Pat 6784 photographers to display during festival 
week. Interested photographers can 2 need ride to/from Florida for break. submit their work to Bernadette Young Plea~e call 8682. 317 Badin or Kevin Pritchett 124 Keenan. 
Need ride to Texas for break. Will share
. 

I MISS MINNESOTA and I won't see St. 
LOS!. one crutch outside of the Library 
Paul a~aln unless some kind soul gives
about a week and a half ~-If you've 
me a r de for spring break. Will share 
seen this crutch alive, call Ike at 1678. 
driving and expenses-Aileen, 3449. 
Lost: Sunday after lnterhall game at the 
NEED RIDE FOR TWO lO OKLAHOMA
ACC 1basketball with my name on lt. If 
CITY FOR BREAK--HELPII CALL
found call Bart at 1078. 
PAULA AT 8125. 
Lost or stolen: ladle's brown leather size DESPERATELY NEED RIDE FOR TWO
8. Grea~rsonal value. PLEASE return 
TO TEXAS-CALL KIM AT 6446. 
to 339 alsh or Lost and Found In Ad Bldg. 
Need ride for 2 to Ft. M~ers, Florida over break. Can leave We . Call Brian 1423.
For Rent 
Is It really 1st class?
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. 

I apologize, Joe Philbin Is NOT a Zelda 
Europr, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. 
lady-killer...
All fields, $500 -$1 ,200 monthly. Expenses gald. Slghtseeln~. Free Info., Write: IJ , Box 4490-14, erkeley, CA 94704 

Keenan's ZA-LAND announces 'Su~ar Za Nita' Wednesday, March 7th. na Cute Cathy is looking for someone to give FREE SOOA with ever plual WIN a 1, 2or 3 peo~le ride to Boston for spring 
For Sale

FREE PIZZA! Orders taken now at 3318 break. Call er at 6859. 
1959 Austin Healey "Bug Eye" S~rlte, 21,1100 actual miles. Never wrec ad or rusted out. Licensed 4tlmasln 14 years. Have orl~nal hardtop and convertible 

soft top. at 33 1/2 mllas per gallon. In Reverse green--let's do it! mint condition and runs beautifully. CJ
... no, he's a masochist.... 
Have custom built towbar. Phone 272-3508. CJ:
ND-SMC women--call1686 and wish Bob

for a ORRISSEY LOAN. No exceptions ICI! Reverse blue to you,
Dawson a Happy Birthday!!!

Need rlde(s) to Downstate New York area p
Pioneer cassette deck Dolb$ recorder. 

CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on ~-80 or 1-84) lor spring brehk. Coleen $100 or best offer over 70. After 
Happy birthday, Bob!

brand name hard or soft lens supplies. 060. midnight. Paul 8276. • . Kim:
Love, .
Send for free Illustrated catalog. Contact Blue skip, UNO!
The girl's from Holy Cross.

Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Need ride during break to east, Pa, or on Classic Peugeot 404 $900, call 288-9277 .. CJ Arizona 85011. 1-80 --Doug, 1008 
... no, he's actually a TUNISIAN II 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Need ride to New Jersey for break. WII 
9-7 Ral~h Casperson 1303 Buchanan 

Student loans, $2D-$150. 1 ro:rcent share $$. Brian 3508. Road. Nles. 683-2888. 
Must salll ATARI video aama. Low price. M~ car Is wracke , must get money to f x II. Call 1783 for Info 
For sale: OVATION acoustic/electric ~itar with case. Excellent condition. 
50. Brian at 288-2129. 

expenses. Call Tara 7936. Beautiful Bassett puppies, 6 wks. old, AKC, gagers, shots, wormed, $135. 
Desperatelr need ride to Philadelphia for Profs. ' ntuaono/Gingras, 287-2586. Nocturne Nlphtlllght, WSND-89FM, Rick break. Cal Kathy 1340. • 
"Nlghtraln' Lane features the music of Little Feat, tonight, 12:15. Need ride to Washln~ton D.C. Can leave 
Personals

Wed., March 14. WII help drive and will pay. Call John 3305. 
Wish Andy P. a Happy 21st Birthday.

Lost&Found 
Going to Florida for Spring break? Bu~ a roundtrip ticket to Ft. Lauderdale for 75 
Where do Polacks celebrate their 21stcall Harry 8922. 

b-days, Andy? Under the table, eh?

Lost: Someone borrowed my Mozart String Quartet, last fall and never 
My buddyroo and I need a ride to 
Glenn,

retiKned them. Confessions--call 
Lauderdale for break. Call Pat 1788. 
How'd we do? Not good enough-eh?

289-1412 
OK!

Need ride for 2to Ma~land-D.C. area forLost: Gold Waltham watch Saturday spring break. Will s are expenses and 
JK & JR-Where are you? We miss your

nl~ht near Senior Bar. Please call Tina driving. Please call Karen 4-1-4522. 
bodies! HI Goose, cheer up, you could be51 1 If found. Thanksl In Angers. 

.

Ride wanted to Buffalo, Frida~, March 9. 
Lost: gold watch on blue strlf:: Share driving and expenses. all Mark at 
Kim & MJ: And you were there!

watchband--somewhere between t e 
8773. . 
Zelder

laundry and Lewis. If found, pl1111 call Gaelynn 13415. Help! Need ride to Lawrence, Mass. for Anyone Interested In an outdoor Jnterhall
break. Can leave Wed., March 14 will 
track meet In April, call 6100 before 5:00.

Lost: Tl SR·50 In section 2of E. Carolina share expenses. Tony 1423. game. Call Brian at 8700. 
Gin, thought you'd never get your very own personal did ya? Well, here's ten or 'em, Happy Blrthweek! 
AJTC 
Today's Ginger's Birthday! Give her a call at 3464 and make her happy (that Is, more happy!) 
Chick aboom, chick aboom, don't ya justlove her! 
Never drop a hermit crab--his hot dog might break! 

Need ride to Hartford, CT area for spring Gin, your beauty brings out the beast In break. Want to leave Wed. afterno.on, me!
Need rully "big sound for your next 
but will accefJ most any1hlng. Please call
party? Two Peav% loudspeakers with 
Marybeth 2 -9049. Ginger--as sweet and sensual as a freshly
300w mixer/amp. dapts to ant srstem picked strawberry.
~reat sound magnification. al Bob: 
If 1can help It, your extra Ingredient will Furnished four bedroom house for rent Need ride to Long Island for tl:ring break. be In all your recipes. for next school year, couple blocks from 
Will share In expenses. all John at campus. 277-3€04. 3507. For Ginny's blrthdaX, another ~ear's 
suppJy of happy pills ( I she needs t em!) House for rent, 3block's ~ld course, $75 Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call mo., fireplace, available pt. 233-1329. Mary Meg at 8037: I love you Just wanted to let you know you're a Billy, real funky guy and a cool dude. 
Congratulations to my favorite big Happy belated B-day you old.man. .1 brother! Red Love always, Sally Annie Tommy Sheridan-I can't find the tickets. 
Fred Stephan--you stood me up--the bet is thereby doubled!
Mark L. 
Paula
Where does It burn?? Well then rub It!! 

Do you know that the Huddle does not serve Mike Galvin on abun? We ordered...he's a necrophlliac... 
one Frida~night, and they wouldn't give. It to us! aybe next week Mike!
Mark L. How was the massage?! 

CJ: Reverse yellow to you, dump on TO!
WE CAN MAKE IT HAPPEN. VOTE MANGINO, FINK, HENNEKES, 
Paula:CASTELLINI. . 
Sorry Joe, but you told me to use my Imagination! Woul~ou rather I had said you're acurly-head , befreckled sweetie pie? 
Dan--
Sorrk about the unexpected weekend. Will a Iss on the cheek and ahug make It better? Please say yes. 
The older woman 
congl'ltulltlon• to all my frlendl wiNI got promoted••• don't Ill too l'llllh an 1111 next yar, ok? 
PIMIIIIRid 

l'D: I'll reverse It, blue--get hlml Kim 
Jim 0., Skip. MAC, Congrats. Pitt better beware of the 
N.D. professionals! The Boys 
Dr. Spit. and ATT. Tim, 
You two are not forgotten. You begall turning 734 Into the house of profession­als. Good luck! 
-The Nons 

Congratulations to the young. darkhorse 
Bob Dawson, the man of our dreams, Happy Birthday!!! 
Love, Mary, Jeane, Cindy, Kathy, Anne, Norma. Janice, Theresa, Diane, Kay, Judy, Brenda, Donna, Beth, Patty, Sue, Clara, Joan, VIcki, Michelle, Kelly, Debbie, Fran, Barb, ktnn, Betsy, Toni, Jackie, Kathleen, aureen, Shawn, Veronica, Tess, Sophie, Bridget, Uz, Amy, M.S., Anna, Jane, Susie, Sandy, Sal~, Rosie, Katie, Rosemary, Marla, M.., Julie, Lori, Elisabeth, Carol... 
Do rngple keep throwln~you peanuts and say ng, "Here Boy!"? ou are a UMOC candidate. 

from Solomon Grundy's. 
C MAC, Way to vibrate! The Wee Wee Heads 
Glenn, You name the game, I'll name the stakes! 
ABCD 
' 
ABCD ABCD ABCD ABCD 

WE'RE BACK IN THE SADDLE AGAIN Sarah Grathwohl Curtis, formerly of 
1would like to taka this opportunity,.to thank Scoop for not kllllng 1111 Is weekend. lmlly appreciate It, blcaull I had such a grat time. 
John McG111th 
P.S. Thanb for the Jllfty toll 
Girls, Girls, Girls, 
Peter Burger Is eligible! Catch him on the track (he's a runner!) or call him at 8900. 
Congratulations Andy, Digger & Martin-Can· we break pareltals next year now??I 

Lau~ln' Place, Is now Instructing at Kelt Hell's Stable In Niles, Mlchl~an. Heated are0at4 maximum In cass/ En8'1sh or Western/4 lesson-In advance $4 .DO/Thursday evenings, Saturday afternoons, Call Jo Hell after 7:00, 683-4467 
How many Polacks does It take to blow out the candles Pavelk? 
Old you know that Poland produces the very best looklna horses and men In the world? Happy lrthday Stud! 
Andy,
Lost: one Bass shoe at side road relief Sorry about the abuse-sincerely, have station near Jackson, Michigan. if found, a great birthday-we luv ya!!

return to S. Plggley. 
Kim and Ferpauler 

Zahm hockey team • It was fun-same Dearest Jane P.: lime next year?! Bart Starr, the Lou Pagley Fan Club, 213 
of the Naval R.O.T.C. Secretarial Pool,Mike Galvin: How are the Suns doing? B.A.D. '80 and Ron P~terson congratu-My ears are cold. late you upon achieving 21 perfect years! 
John Baby--PEEK-A-800111 
The tennis match was the greatest. WHERE ARE YOU??? Pollyklns double-faulted, now It's you and me. Score: LOVE/LOVE. 
Whole bunches even!
Klssy Ups Happy Blrthweek! 

Bill and Dave, Fisher.
No wonder you're never at the bars-­

I realize you're no lo'?91er a teenager-
you party hearty at home! 

out are you still ticklish 
Z&K 


.. 

-
Monday, March 5, 1979 -page 12
SRorts 
Irish fall on hard tin1es as Wolverines triumph 
by Ray 0 'Bn.en 
did a great job. It was a great

Sports Editor victory for us and its too bad it 
PONTIAC, Mich.--For the didn't come earlier in the second consecutive year, Notre season. Dame etided its regular season The Irish probably wished with a road loss, this time at the they were back to earlier in the hands of Michigan, 62-59, at season as the loss marked their the Pontiac Silverdome. second in three days and only 
Coaches Johnny Orr and their fifth of the vear_ • 
Digger Phelps hoped to draw "We had a rough weekend the largest crowd to ever see a and we dido' t think it would be basketball game, but managed this tough,~' admitted Phelps only a second place finish as afterwards. ''We have to just Michigan's less-than-par take rhi~ negative weekend and season kept Some of the fans at turn it into a positive one like home watching the nationally­we did last year after we lost to tebrised contest. Still, 37,283 Dayton. • 
turned out to watch the mid­''We missed a lot of shots we western powers battle ir out. should be hitting," Phelps con­
It was the Irish that had the tinued. ''But -our biggest le~ .-than-par performance yes­weakness was our offensive terday afternoon, as Michi~an rebounding. We weren't ran off 10 unanswered pomts getting any second or third after an officials' timeout to efforts.'' give the Wolverines a 24-14 The slumping Irish broke the lead with 8:58 left in the 20 barrier in turnovers for the opening period. second straight game and man­
The Wolverines came out in aged to hit only 48 percent from what was probably their last the floor against an agressive outing of a disappointing Michigan zone defense. season. Phil Hubbard, Mike The Wolverines connected on McGee and Marty Bodnar got 62 percent of their field goal things started as they divided attempts. McGee and Hubbard i:he first 24 points between poured in 16 and 14 points, them, with Hubbard owning ten respectively, while Bodnar fin­points. ished with 10. 
Bruce Flowers, replacing Bill Branning led all s~on!rs with Laimbeer on Hubbard, helped 18 points on 9-of-12 shooting 

Bengal Bouts open up as 
31 claim wins 
by-Craig Chval Sports Writer 
The 49th Annual Bengal Bouts kicked off Sunday after­noon in front of 2,476 fans in the ACC. Yesterday's act-ion was the quarterfinal round of the event, which will continue Thursday evening. There were 31 bouts in all, highlighted by three knockouts and three TKO's. 
The 157-pound division pro­vided the most action of the day, as Tom McCabe registered a TKO over Joe (Sugarbear) Gill at 0:28 of the third round. The left-handed McCabe used· his superior reach, connecting with several lefts to Gill's head. Gill refused to back down, however, and hulled his way inside, but McCabe was able to prevent any major damage... McCabe finished off the bout with a vicious uppercut that straightened Gill up. 
The next bout matched Pete DeCelles, a returning finalist, against Andrew Rukavina. Rukavina took the initiative at the opening bell, but De Celles connected with a thundering 
[continued on page 9] 

bring the Irish back with a pair from the floor. Hanzlik an"d of buckets. Branning follwed Flowers each chipped in 11 in 
Demonsprove they'refor real 
with a pair of long jumpers to the losing cause. end the half, 29-26, in favor of All-American Kelly Tripucka 
the Wolverines. managed only six markers on by Paul Mullaney DePaul's final victory the two teams, and led by as 
The Irish made their bid for a 2-of-7 shooting. Assistant Sports Editor margin, 76-72, didn't depict the many as· 13 (70.57) with 2:04 comeback six minutes into the "I just don't know what it control they had over the left. second half when they took is," lamented .Tripucka after CHICAGO--Ray Meyer and second-ranked Irish. The visi­The Irish managed to score their only Lead of the game, the game. "This is probably his DePaul Blue Demons were tors of Coach Digger Phelps the last eight points of the 
35-33, on a Bill Hanzlik 18-the worst feding we've had all out to prove that they were were forced to play catch-up contest, as they converted footer. .season. I guess we're all tied indeed deservin~ of an NCAA ball for the .final 26 minutes of missed DePaul free throws and 
Orr's squad responded with a up and tight because this team tournament invitation. And the game, while DePaul was turnovers. But by the time the 14-2 spurt that left Notre Dame is just too good to lose." when· t~y were finished dis­putting together perhaps its visitors got anythmg going, the on a hopeless comeback trail for Notre Dame will have one secting Notre Dame on Friday best stretch of play this season. contest was history. · all of the fourth quarter. week to cure its disease before night at Alumni Hall, there was When Demon guard Clyde "I think I lost some weight 
Michigan used the Irish ploy they take on the winner of the little doubt in the minds of the with this one," offered a jubi­of a balanced attack in the Tennessee-Eastern Kentucky 5,556 fans in attendance that lant Meyer, who captained the
NCAA Cage Pairings

second half as they. stole the game in Murfreesboro, Tenn., DePaul would be a team to 1936 and '37 Notre Dame cage show, prompting Orr to com­on Sunday, in a second-round reckon with in post-season squads.
--See Page 10

ment, ''Every guy I put in there game in the Mideast Regional. action. "We beat a great Notre Dame team. It's a tribute to our 
Bradshaw erased a 20-19 Irish team to play them like that.

Lose home ice lead by hitting from the top "That's our style of play.right stde of the key with 6:35 
Once we got the lead we slowed remaining in the first stanza, it down and played our game. I DePaul .began a spurt in which

Irish icerssuffersetbacks, injuries 
doubt if we could have playedit outscored Notre Dame, 15-3, Notre Dame if we were behind.
night, but Notre Dame may to close the half on top, 34-23.

by Bn.an Beglane spot in the playoff positioning, But we could hold the ball with 
however, for being outscored have lost Meredith for the Bradshaw and Gary· Garland, 

Sports Wn'ter the lead." 
by ,UMD, 21-20, in the season playoffs. There is a very slim who run the Demon backcourt, 
Meyer told his team to

MADISON, Wis.--The Notre senes. possibility that he will sks:te were foremost responsible for spread it out after CurtisDame hockey team let its· That means Notre Dame will tomorrow night. the spurt, let alone for control­Watkins, the game's mostchances for home ice in the first face Wisconsin in the opening Neither team was able to find ling the contest the rest of the 
valuable player with 21 points,

round of the W es.tern Collegiate round of the playoffs tomorrow the net in the first period, but way. Their blinding quickness 
committed his fourth foul withHockey Association playoffs night and Wednesday, extend­they were able '"tO find each led DePaul's half-court zone 14:06 left in the contest. The
slip, slide away this weeK:end by ing its stay here in Madison to a other. Excessive contact and defense to cause 14 first-half Demons,· who don't have the
dropping its final two games of full week. hard checking was the story for 
Irish turnovers. luxury of calling on a sufficientthe year to the Badgers of "We just weren't able to the first 10 minutes, although Those turnovers, plus the bench, controlled their offenseWisconsin. convert on our chances," said there was some offense. Notre fact that Notre Dame was from the spread-out formationWisconsin held the Irish Notre Dame Coach Lefty Smith Dame goaltender Dave Laurion outrebounded 19-14 in the half, the rest of the way, findingscoreless for the first time in of Friday's games. "That is and Wisconsin goalie Roy was the primary reason for the numerous holes ·in Notrethree years on Friday with a 2-0 what turned the game over to Schultz were both superb, how­Irish to only get off 20 field goal Dame's man-to-man defensevictory, and completed the Wisconsin. They scored both ever, and did not let anything attempts. DePaul, on the other for scores.
sweep Saturday night with a 7-3 their goals on power-plays, and go by. . 
hand, cashed in on 15 of 36 Garland and freshman sensa­shellacking of a depleted Notre their second goal hit off one of But the Wisconsin power­attempts from the floor. tion Mark Aguirre contributedDame squad. Both games were our own men. That fluke goal play killed the Irish, with Les "Garland and Bradshaw con­to DePaul's cause with 17 and
played before sellout crowds of really killed us." Grauer doing all the damage. 
trolled the show,'' said Phelps 15 points, respectively, while8,662 and a state-wide tele­The biggest loss of the week­Grauer collected his first goal of afterwards. "That's why I feel Bradshaw had 12 points.
vision audience at the Dane end for the Irish occurred in the the evening on a deflected slap that they have the Cinderella Demon cel)ter Jim MitchemCounty Coliseum. first 36 seconds of the opening shot at 6:37 while Jeff team in the NCAA tournament. only had five points, but pulled By dropping both contests, period Friday. Greg Meredith, Brownschidle was off for trip: down a game-high 10 rebounds.
Notre Dame finished the regu­Notre Dame's top goal scorer, ping. Wisconsin continued the "Of all the teams we've 
Notre Dame's Orlando

lar season in fifth place in the and Wisconsin's Ron Griffin pressure, but Laurion was out­played this year, they're as Woolridge led all scorers withWCHA with a 17-14-1 record collided in back of the Badger standing in stopping several quick as any team in the 22 points. Tracy .Jackson added (18-17-1 overall) and a four~ goal and both were gone for the point-blank shots. country." 
12 m a losing effort, while Rich game losing streak, its longest night, Griffin with a partially­The icing on the cake for the That quickness showed more Branning and Bill Hanzlik each 

league skid of the season:. separated shoulder' and Badgers came at 4:35 of the than ever in the second half, as had 10.
Wisconsin closed the year with · Meredith with a second-degree third period, with Kevin Notre Dame was thwarted in Both schools finished thea 19-11-2 league record to tie tear of inside ligaments in his Humphreys off for high­each attempt to reduce the game with 22-4 records, while
Duluth for third place. left knee. sticking. Grauer was attempt-deficit. DePaul consistently Wisconsin will get the founh Griffin came back the next [continued on page 11] kept about ten points between [continued on page 9] 




