, , , Irish FxtttL-pages 11-14 


V0L. XIV, No. 43_.,...lllllllllllllllllla1 i nd1eiplelnldlen1r1s1rude1n ~1-iplaip1 se1~11inlgln1o re rune1an·1d1s1ru·n1rlnuuyllll'siiiiii..II~IPF~Rl~~D,A~Y, N9VE~BER2, 1979
11111111111111 n11 11 1r1n1e1 er11 1r111d111 1 1 
Williams outlines peaceful goals for Northern Ireland 
by Margie Brasset/ Saint Mary's News Editor 
''The ultimate goal of the 
Peace People's ~ovement is 
the unification of Northern Ire­
land into a just and peaceful 
society," declared Betty Wil­liams during a press conference with reporters from the Scho­lastic, Notre Dame Magazine, and The Observer. 
Williams explained that the problem is not as simple as getting the British out of Nor­thern Ireland, but in creating an identity for Northern Ireland. ''When the Northern Ireland people come together, it will be . their decision to get the British out if that is what they want,'' she said. 
The Peace People are trying something "completely, utter­ly and totally new in Ireland" by their work against violence, according to Williams. Their work is to end the violence and terro}!sm which has dominated life in Northern Ireland. 
In response to a question about the results of the group's work in the three years since it began, Williams said that there has been a change in the tactics of the war. "Where there used to be bombings daily in Belfast there is now only sporadic bombing every few months." 
According to Williams the Provisional IRA seems to be most opposed to them. When asked about the IRA's terming the group ''tools of the British'' Williams responded, ''The Pro­visional IRA won't listen when we say we condemn all vio-. lence, they only see us as being against them. But we are opposed to the Protesant terror-• ist groups as well as the Catholic ones. 
"After the Pope's visit to Ireland the Protestant paramili­tary issued a statement saying they would cease fire if the Provisional IRA would . The IRA said no, the war would ontinue," said Williams. 
The Peace People's move­ment has succeeded in getting· many men to leave the para­. military groups. "When I left Ireland for this trip we had gotten over 600 men out,'' said Williams, but she added that even while they are getting men to leave many more are still joining. .. When asked how they fund their activities Williams said that it is becoming harder. "From the money recieved from the Norwegians and the Nobel prize we have have approximately 40,000 pounds left. Last year the Ford Foundation funded some pro­jects and the Rockefeller Foun­dation funded our newpaper for one year." Williams went on to explain that they could not get aid from any government particularly the British or Re­public oflreland because they would be condemned for being 
[continued on page 6] 


tion is considering student o­-"' .. pinion. He says the alcohol directive
'Another Holocaust ' 
issued earlier this year by Dean of Students James Roemer is a good example of the admini­


Hesburgh discusses Catnbodia 
stration's respect for student 
by Sal Granata StaffReporter 
''The situation in Cambodia has all the makin~s of another Holocaust," Umversity Presid­ent Theodore M. Hesburgh said yesterday. 
Hesburgh spoke on Cambodia, Gerald Ford's visit and ROTC on campus during an interview just before he-appeared at Flanner Hall last night. 
Hesburgh recently organized American religious leaders to urge President Carter and the United Nation to take humani­tarian action in Cambodia. ''Therewere 8 million people in 
Cambodiaten years ago and only 
4.7 millton today. They have been either killed or starved by the Khmer ·Rouge, the Cam­bodian Commumsts under Pol Pot. · As you know, people excused themselves from the , last Holocaust by saying they didn't know what was gong on. · · But there is no secret about this 
Holocaust," Hesburgh said. 
Last week in Washington, Hesburgh helped prepare a letter approved by over twenty American religious leaders. "We took the letter directly to the President in the Cabinet Room," Hesburgh said. The 
srune morning, Carter held a 

Caught in rehearsal ofnex_t ~eek 's production of 'Stop the World-I Want to Get Off are Sarah McGrath, joe Zilvznskzs, Mary Powef ]abaley Rich Lechovich and Maura Sendelbach. [Photo by Beth Prezio] ' ' 

Roche completes half ofterm 
tion has fulfilled last year's
by Dan Letcher 
platform promises of an in­
Senior StaffReporter 
creased student voice in univer­Student Body President Bill sity decisions and the establish­Roche calls the first half of his ment of an off-crunpus housing term ''subtly successful.'' director. 
Roche said in an interview His dealings with the admini­yesterday that his administra-stration this year have indicated to Roche that· the ·administra­

opinion. "Dean Roemer pre­press conference announcing a mese, now controls two-thirds sented us with a directive draft pledge of $69 million in aid to of the land and is pushing the at the end of last year and we Cambodia. Khmer Rouge into the moun­were asked to comment on it,'' 
''After we delivered the letter tainous region near the Thai Roche recalls. 
to him, he said it was the border. "We had some difficulty with quickest response a letter ever ''There is practically no food the wording and Dean Roemer got from the White House," in the eqtire country. Because was completely open with us Hesburgh said. of the war, only 11 percent of and went along with our sug­
. The present Cambodian re­gestions," he adds. gime, set up by the Vietna-[continued from page 4] Roche points out, however, 


Military seizes power in Bolivia 
LA PAZ, Bolivia (AP) -A right-wing army colonel seized power yesterday in a pre-dawn coup against President Walter Guevara, Boli­via's first democratically elected president in a decade. Guevara had been in office less than three months. 
Students and workers opposed to the takeover by Col. Alberto Natusch took to the streets of the capitol, hurling rocks at armored cars. The soldiers opened fire, and ~olice sources and witnesses said at least five civilians were killed and dozens were wounded.~ 
Newspapers and radio stations throughout the country indicated virtually all army garrisons were supporting the coup. 
The clashes in La Paz ended by nightfall. The streets were clear and rebel soldters calmly patrolled their posts. 
The 47-year-old Natusch, a former agriculture minister and until two weeks ago commander of the military college, declared himself president and said he would guarantee freedom for Bolivia's political parties. 
Guevara, who took office Aug. 8, went into hiding. He issued a signed appeal for military units in other parts of the country to rescue his government, but there was no immediate sign of any counter-coup. 
Two T-33 jet fighters swooped low over the business district yesterday morning, signaling that at leastJart of the p.olitical scenery in this impoverishe South American nation of't:> million people. .. .,;. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Thomas Reston said the United States "would deplore any disruption in Bolivia's democratic process. We will be reviewing our relations with Bolivia as events develop." 
The coup was 1aunchef6 just nine days after Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, in La Paz for a general assembly of the Organization of American States, appealed personally to respect the democratic process here. 
that the administration and student government do not agree on everything, citing the keg decision as an examJ?Ie. "I 

. was very disappointed wtth the keg decision, but at least we were able to voice the student opinion before a decision was handed down,'' Roche says. 
When elected last rear, Roche emphasized that student o­pimon be heard before admini­stration decisions were made. He says the directives and appointments of new security and assistant security directors are cases where students re­cieved such an opportunity. 
''When interviewing security director candidates, Bill Vita (Student Body Vice President) and I took the candidates aside and asked our questions,'' Roche relates. ''This helped us have an impact on who was selected and also allowed us to give each candidate an idea of what students expected and needed.'' 
Getting students involved on the ground floor of such deci­sions is part of Roche's pro­grrun for "subtle success." Last year's cabinet reorganiza­tion has given him a more efficient policy-forming group, he says. "We took 22 cabinet positions and placed them un­der five coordinators," Roche explains, adding that this has been a much more workable arrangement. 
Roche is also pleased with the appointment off-Campus Hous­

. ing director. "We wanted, we waited, asked and achieved this goal," he says. 
Roche is currently working on improving social space in the dorms. "Father Heppen, the new Housing director, and a few student government repre­sentatives have gone to all the 
[continued on page 19] 

''t!i!'ftf§ f Q.WI I j &fl* +&$ f > §·"'Q*;~a-*"'· ·?!fl't¥S'e"f..w&f§4i*EdA-' 1 -==r--~ %¥ mary:*
t "-.:;...-q. Fh' S· ·.Z!H· U•F*-*5 d·-5·4 ¥@t 4-..-~-U5t·%?0&'+fil 1S2§' 

News in brief 
Soviet defectors announce Ice Capades contract 
NEW YORK (AP) -Figure skating stars Oleg and Ludmila Protopopov, who defected from the Soviet Union in September, announced yesterday they had signed a three-year contract with the Ice Capades. The husband and wife team received asylum in Switzerland on Tuesday after defecting there on Sept. 24 during a European exhibition tour. At a news conference, the two-time Olympic champions performed for photographers. But they refused to answer questions about how they defected and would not comment on reports in a Soviet newspaper calling them ''two greedy, business-like consumers.'' 
Canadian separatists call on Quebec to sever ties 
QUEBEC (AP) -The separatist government of Quebec province called yesterday on French-Canadians to "come to terms with our destiny,'' withdraw from the Canadian confederation and establish a new nation with all the powers ofa sovereign country. In an offical "white paper," the f.arti Quebecois government proposed a "sovereignty-_associa­tion'' plan by which Quebec would be self-ruling but maintam close economic ties with Canada -a common currency, free trade and the free movement of people and capital. The long-awaited document presents the Parti Quebecois platform for a provincewide referendum on the issue scheduled tor next May or June. 
Weather 
Cloudy and cool today. High in the low and mid 40s. lear and colder tonight. Low in the mid 20s to about 30. StCmy tomorrow and cool. High in the mid 40s to about 50. 



Cam us 
Friday, November 2, 1979 
11:45-1pm Iafortune lunchtime concert, presenting rich prezioso, spons: nd student union. 
6:30pm, meeting, finance club collecting money for wash. 
d.c. trip. --_ .....
• ,N.-­
..... 
7 pm,film, "dr. zhivago" , carroll hall smc, free of charge, spons: social commission. 
7 pm, dance-a-than, Iafortune ballroom. 
8:15 pm, concert, notre dame glee club, wash. hall, free of charge. 
9-10:30 pm, nazz, brian mchale on guitar, nazz. 
10:30 pm, nazz, rick walters on guitar, nazz. 
Saturday, November 3, 1979 
10 am cross country, nd vs. illinois state, home. 
11:30 am gsu pre-game social, spons: graduate student union, wilson commons. 
1:30 pmfootball, nd vs. navy, home. 
7 pm film, "dr. zhivago" carroll hall smc, free of charge, spons:. social commission. 
8 pm pops concert, south bend symphony with guest conduc­tor newton wayland, o 'laughlin aud. smc, spons:. parents anonymous of south bend, $3. 50, tickets at box office and chamber of commerce. 
9-10:30 pm nazz, eric barth and wally tinpermen, nazz, spons: nd student union. 
10 pm dance-a-thon, Iafortune ballroom. 
10:30 pm nazz, rich prezioso, spons: nd student union, nazz. 
Sunday, November 4, 1979 
1 pm m~eting, nd chess club, Iafortune raihskellar. 
5-6 pm-·vegetarian dinner andgi;Jeral meeting, spons: world hunger coalition; lewis hall basement. 7 pm meeting, nd/smc world hunger ~oalition 
Friday, November 2, 1979 -page · 

Officials study DC-10 crash sigh 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Mexi­can aviation investigators say their investigation of Wednes­day's Western Airlines DC-10 crash were centered on why the pilot used a runway he had been told was closed. 
But the investigators, who asked not to be identified, said they are not rulin~ out what could be other, sull undeter­mined causes for the crash, which killed 72 of the 89 occu­pants of the jetliner and three persons on the ground. 
Engineer Mario Aguilar of the airport chiefs office said "23-Left (the closed runway) is definitely closed. None of its systems are functioning, not even the runway border lights or the runway approach lights. Only 23-Right has them right now.'' 
He said investigators are not ruling out anything but said ''it does not appear to be a struc­tural fault 10 the plane.'' 
DC-10' s were grounded for 3 7 days after an American Air­lines plane crashed last May 25 at Chicago's O'Hare Airport, killin~ 273 persons, the worst aviation disaster in U.S. his­tory. 
Mexican officials said runway 23-Left had been closed for two weeks. 
The pilot, Ca,;>t-Charles Gil­bert, 53, of Rolhng Hills, Calif., was among those killed. 
Searchers have sent the ·'Black box'' flight recorder to Washington for analysis, a process aviation officials here say could take two weeks or more. 
The tower-to-cockpit conver­sation was in English but the English language version here has not been released. 
A Spanish language tran­script of the last conversation between the tower here and the approaching jet quotes con­trollers as telling the pilot to use runway 23-Right, then warning him he was veering to the left. 
"Only a little," was the re­ply. Later, according to the transcript, the plane was told its landmg lights were over 23­Left, which is closed for re­pairs. The crew acknowledged the message. 
Seconds later came the crash. American consular officials here said yesterday that their 
unofficial list showed 26 cans among the dead, and at least five, possibly six Americans were among the 17 survivors. ''There is one we haven't talked to we suspect is an American citizen,'' a man said. 
Flight officials say the inbound from Los struck a truck with its gear, went out of slammed into two along the runway. 
The consular spokesman bodies would be returned to United States if that is families want but that the American dead were of panic origin and had relatives Mexico. 
Speaking of Sports FREE PIZZA 
Join Paul Stauder and Frank LaGrotta every Sunday night for your chance to win a free Noble Roman's pizza. Speaking of Sports is brought to you by The Sound Room and
-
Noble Roman's. 
Sunday Night 9 pm AM 64 
~~ :\)~~~ 
o'\'\)'\:_ ~S~ DRINK NOW ~~ ~~~

# Town &Countt_y
0 Liquors 
isthe ONLY place to go 

Fifth of Gordons Vod~a ....................... . ·$3.69 Q··•rt of Kentucky Tavern Bo1,1rbon ....... . $4.99 H~f Gallon Dimitri Vodka....•............... $7.89 Fifth of Rum................................ ... $4.99 Fifth of Tequila............................. ... $4.99 Schenley's Whiskey......................... . $4.99 Caee 12cz. Fo:-Deluxe...................... . $3.99 Ca3e 12 oz. Pabst Blue Ribbon ............. . $5.69 Case 12 oz. Stroh's......................... . $5.99 Case of Quarts of Old Mi Iwaukee.......... . $5.90 

PLUS 




10% DISCOUNT on ALL 
wine, liquor & beer not menti-......·'-­above for all ND & SMC students & faculty 
We stock kegs & have one of the areas largest selections of win 
OPEN 9:00 am -midnight 
in all 4 convenient locations 
Town and Country Plaza 157112th St., Mishawaka River Park, 2411 Mishawaka Ave. Southland, 4411 Ironwood 
.. ~-"':'-..,.. .............~~-­
259-3262 259-8364 289-3868 291-7580 
-' "l{ _:'~"4"' , ...... ~ ................ 



.. -,. 

-~-----------------­
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 3 
In meeting with students 

Hesburgh stresses Eucharist 

by Michael Mader 
· 

University President Fr. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh talked on the Eucharist and other topics be­fore 150 attentive students last night in the Flanner Pit.· 
Hesburgh said the most im­ponant thing Christians can do ts participate in the mass, referring to ] esus' life and his own. 
Talking about his personal life, Hesburgh said, "I can't think of a power greater than being able to offer the Euchar­ist.'' He commented that he has celebrated mass everyday but one in his 36 years of the priesthood, in over 100 coun­tries and even the South Pole. He said he would not give up that privilege for any material object or position offered him. In talking about Jesus, Hes­burgh cited the example of ] esus feeding the masses and the Last Supper as times of 
Coalition plans dinner 
The ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition will hold a vegetanan dinner this Sunday in the Lewis Hall's basement. Dinner will be 
Nobel prize winner, Betty Williams spoke last night at St. served from 5-6 p.m. A general Mary's Carrol Hall. [Photo by Rick Dohn'ng] meeting will follow. 


Williatns voUJs to end violence 
by Molly Woulfe Peace People have striven to ''By God, she kicked them 
Senior StaffReporter end strife 10 Northerm Ireland right in the conscience," Wil­
by peaceful means, and to liams declared. 

Betty Williams, the Irish wo­spread the message of peace Williams, who plans to begin man who won a joint Nobel everywhere. Prize monies have work to unite blacks and whites Prize in the 1976 for co-found­been used to build Peace Peo­in South Africa next January, is ing a movement to end violence ple' sheadquarters, local chap­also concerned with discrimina­in Northern Ireland, emphasiz­ters, community-center build­tion against blacks in the U.S. ed a need "to create a just and ings, and small factories. and against American Indians. peaceful society'' last night in Williams explained to the "My God," she commented. Saint Mary's Carrol Hall. audience that peace in Ireland ''Such a proud people, and 
"I won't leave Ireland; I'm will be a longand slow process, they're dressed up for people going to change it,'' she vowed. and not accomplished by the to take pictures of." 
A large audience attended the removal of British troops, since Throughout her talk; the Bel­37-year-old Belfast Catholic's five Protestant and four Catho­fast battler demonstrated a hour-long talk, sponsored by lic terrorist groups would re­quick wit, musing that Mother Saint Mary's Speaker's Series. main. "We want them alloff Teresa, winner of the Nobel 
In 1976, Williams, wife of an the streets," she pointed out. Prize of 1979, is "such a change English Methodist, began the ''The time will come when we from Kissinger," and that Sen­movement after witnessing an can ask them (the British) to ator Edward Kennedy is ''gor­IRA car, pursued by Bntish leave, but that time is not geous-has eyelashes you could soldiers, strike and kill three now," she added. hang your coat on." small children on a street in Williams also pleaded for A­She also observed tardy that Belfast. According to Williams, mericans to stop sending dona­"the football team from across ''This panicular act of violence tions to terrorist groups, such the street'' should change its was so obscene .. .I can never as the IRA. "I don't think they name to "the Peaceful Irish." get away from it.'' really know what they're doing After her talk, Williams recit­
Within five hours, she had • to my people. They're killing ed the Declaration of the Peace driven to Andersonstown, a us,'' Williams stressed. Am­People-'' ... we dedicate our­nearby IRA stronghold, and erican dollars have killed thou­selves to working with our "started banging on doors" sands of Irish people.'' neighbors .... peace by peace"-­with a petition for peace. "I ·The Peace People work for answered questions, and held a would have gone through a wall peace and justice outside of brief press conference. if anyone had tried to stop me Ireland, too. Two years ago, Williams will lecture today in that night," Williams recalled. Williams was called to Bangla­Massachusettes. 
She also organized a peace desh to help with the starving
march that passed the house of there. Upon her arrival, she 
Mairead Corrigan, an aunt of was asked to select 40 children 
the slain children. Corrigan from 100--the ones she thought 
Fr. Hesburgh
joined the . march. The two most likely to survive--to be 
women united to head the sent to a hospital for treatment. 
movement for peace, which "God help me, I did," she to celebrate
became known as the Peace admitted .. And en route to the 
People, and were joint recip­hospital, 17 of the children 
ients of the 1976 Nobel Peace died. 

Spanish Mass
Prize, and the Norwegian Peace "We spend billions and bil­
Prize. lions and billions on ways of A Spanish language Mass willWilliams related how 10,000 killing each other, and bigger be said by Fr. Theodore Hes­people marched with the two bombs, while babies die," Wil­burgh this Sunday at 11 p.m. inwomen that week, and 20,000 a liams remarked. 
the Zahm Hall chapel. A homily week after. "It was like being Corrigan, who is presently will be delivered by Fr. Robertthe Pied Piper of Hamlin,'' she lobbying in Westminster a­Pelton and a brunch will followmused. gainst abuse of Irish prisoner in the North Dining Hall. AllSince then, led by the two in British jails recently crusad­Spanish speaking students arewomen and a former journalist ed for human rights in Argen­welcome . 
. named Cieran ...........T .. McKeown, .... • ""' the . ... .... ., ~ ,_.............._._.....~.~ 
.. •.•o•,o •'· -.• ~~nc;J... . ................ ·.r~-... -..~.......
• ' 
giVing and lovins.. He noted, end sacrifice his morals so he however, that whde we take the sacrificed his life. words "eat my body" for -Hesburgh said we should r~­granted now, some people of member one thing from More's Christ's time became disillu-experience; that "all it takes is sioned because they interpreted a faith about life that there will his words as cannibalistic. be a light in the darkness in the 
''Every religion of worth has end.'' had some sort of sacrifice, but During the question and an­only we as Christians partake in swer session, Hesburgh said a sacrifice of such importance," the University did not support 
Hesburgh commented. the groundskeeper's effons to 
In response to a question unionize last year because of about compromising our values the involvement of the Team­to obtain money and importance ster' s Union. Hesburgh noted Hesburgh cited the example of that University supplies that Sir Thomas More. More had are brought to campus by truck become the second most im-could be cut off if the Teamsters portant figure in England at the had a local on campus. time, but was forced to decide He expressed sympathy for between supportin~ his own the monetary concerns of Uni-· conscience and Kmg Henry versity employees and said the VIII's quest to establish a new problem was one of economics religion. More could not in the rather than not caring. 


Saturday Open 10 am 
Double Bloody Marys 

$1.00 

----~~----------~--~--~~ ~~~-~-----~----~--­
The Observer 
Friday is l~st day.
for s1gn up 1n dining hall 
NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS 
Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 4 






AP food survey shows prices dropped slightly during October 
(AP) -Higher prices for milk, butter and eggs ate into savings avaiable at supermarket meat counters last month, but an Associated Press marketbasket survey shows that consumers still came out ahead. 
The survey found that the bill for a marketbasket of food and non-food items declined during October at the stores checked by an average of two-tenths a percent. The only other monthly orops this year came during February and June. 
The pnce changes during Oc­tober reflected the working of the law of supply and demand. 
Beef/rices, for example, ap_· peare to have leveled off. Supplies are still small, but demand has dropped and prices are gradually declining. The price of a pound of chopped chuck, for example, went down during October at the checklist store m six cities and increased in only two cities. 
The opposite was true at the dairy counter. Milk production ishigher than last year, but so is demand because people have been substituting cheese for meat as a source of protein. 
The AP survey is based on a list of commonly purchased items, drawn up at random, The price of each item was checked at one supermarket in each of 13 cities on March 1973 and has been rechecked on or about the start of each succeeding month. One item, chocolate chip cookies, was dropped because the manufac­turer discontinued the package size used in the survey. 
Among the highlights of the latest survey: 
The marketbasket bill increas­ed during October at the check­list store in five cities, up an 
Before you graduate from college! Because now, you can com­bine service in the Army Reserve or National Guard with Af!n_yROTC. It's called the Simultaneous Membership Program (SMP).And, depending on your academic year when you enter, SMP can help rou earn over $6,500. 
Here s how it works. Ifyou qualify and avacancy is available, you become a member of an Army Reserve or National Guard unit as an officer trainee and, at the same time, enroll in the Army ROTC advanced course at your college. Your Reserve or Guard membership will pay you at the minimum level ofSergeant E-5,and you'll receive $100 a month during the regular school year as an Army ROTC advanced course cadet. 
At the end of your second year of advanced ROTC, you'll be commissioned a second lieutenant and, assuming there's a vacancy, serve with a Guard or Reserve unit while you complete the require­ments for your colleg_e degree. Upon graduation, you may con­tinue service with a Guard or Reserve unit while pursuing your civilian career, or you can, if you prefer, compete for active duty as an Army officer. 
So if you'd like to earn over $6,500 while you're still-in college, get into SMP. Because SMP can help you do it. You can bank on it! 
For further information, contact the Professor of Military Science at your school. 

NATIONAL 




·= a
GUARD­

ARMYROTC ARMY NATIONAl GUARD. ARMY RESERVE. 
average of 3 percent, and declined in eight cities, down an average of 2.3 percent. On an overall basis, the bill was two-tenths of a percent lower at the end ofthe month than at the beginning. 
Food rather than non-foods have been the culprit this year's price increases. A com­parison of the bill for total marketbasket selection today and at the start of the year showed an average increase of 
5.8 percent. When food alone was counted, the average bill at the checklist stores went up 7. 3 percent. ':-­
If prices continue to change at the rate they have so far, the average marketbasket bill for foods and non-foods would be about 7 percent of a family's actual grocery outlay each item represents. The AP did not try to compare actual processfrom city to city. The only compari­sons were made in terms of percentages in increase or de­crease. 

The items on the AP checklist were: chopped chuck, center cut prok chops, frozen orange juice concentrate, coffee, paper towels, butter, Grade-A medi­um white eggs, creamy peanut butter, laundry detergent, fa­bric softener, tomato sauce, milk, frankfurters and granulat­ed sugar. The cities checked were: Albuquerque, N.M., At­lanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Provi­dence, R.I., Salt Lake City, and Seattle. 
• • . Hesburgh 
[continued from page I] 
the land has been planted this year. The problem is immedi­ate. We must get 150 thousand tons of food in there a day or else 3 million people will dte in the next year. It is a matter of hours and days, nor weeks and months," Hesburgh said. 
Observers inside Cambodia have reported massive starva­tion and genocide since the Vietnamese invasion last year. Today there are only 50 doctors alive in the entire country, and malaria has reached eptdemic proportions. According to Hes­burgh, there are no chtldren or elderly in the refugee camps since they are the first to die of starvation. 
Food could be airlifted to the eight fieldsconstructed by the United States during the war, or trucked over the two high­ways that connect Cambodia to the outside world. The Rus­sians are using the airfields to land armaments. Hesburgh said he believes that, if the United States can sell the Soviet Union 25 million tons of food, it can persuade them to pressure 
their  Vietnamese  alhes  into  
allowing  food  to  flow  into  
Cambodia.  

Yesterday, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance invited Hesburgh to a U.N. meeting on Monday. The meeting was called by U.N. secretary Gerneral Kurt Wald­heim and it is presumed that the plight of the Cambodians ":'ill be the subject of discus­Sion. 
When asked if Gerald Ford's recent visit carried political overtones, Hesburgh said that, though he could not deny it categorically, Ford's trip was not necessarily political. Ford visited Notre Dame during the first year of his presidency and received a degree here in 1975. He returned according to Hes­burgh, in order to talk to the younger generation and her 

their VIeWS. 
Hesburgh brought former pre­sident Ford up to date on the Cambodian situation at break­fast on Tuesday. Hesburgh mentioned the chance for good­will between the two countries if they could collaborate in solying the problems of the Asian country. 
Senator Ted Kennedy also spoke last week on the Cambod­ia tragedy and on the same day that Hesburgh's group met with the prestdent. Hesburgh said that this was only a coincidence. About Kennedy's political aspirations Hesburgh commented, "Kennedy is a very popular senator and can give Carter a tight race for the nomination. I would not even try to predict the outcome." 
When asked if he thought Notre Dame had achieved the status of' 'The greatest Catholic university in the country,'' Hesburgh said "It is already but that is no reason for resting on our laurels. Our undergrad­uate education is as good as any in the country. In the graduate area and the professional schools we need to improve, that what the campaign for Notre Dame is about.'' 
Hesburgh said that he had no problem justifying ROTC on a Christian campus. "The coun­try has always been concerned about the defense of its citi­zens. We have always had established armed forces--since George Washington. ROTC provides leadership for those Armed Forces. 
''I feel it is important that people who· have a sound education, active minds, good character and Christian spirit should be part of that leade.w ship. I think that the main job of the Armed Forces is not to make war but to keep the peace. 
''Any power can be abused-­money, influence--that's why good leadership is crucial." 
Observer Typists Mandatory Meeting Monday 6: 30 pm 

The Observer Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 5 
In Gulf of Mexico 
Tanker collision ·kills four 
GALVESTON Texas (AP)-A 
Liberian tanker carryin~ 4QO,OOO barrels of crude oll cdlided before dawn yesterday with a Greek freighter in the Gulf of Mexico. Four persons were killed, 23 were injured and 30 missing, the Coast Guard said. 
The 772-foot tanker Burmah Agate, the lenfth of two football fields, was partially submer­ged, with parts of its super­structure under water. Thick smoke billowed from its stern. 
The abandoned 484-foot 
freighter Mimosa, stuck on full 
right rudder with its engines 
running, burned and circle~ 
dangerously close to nearby od 
rigs throughout the moring. 
But by mid·afternoon, its pro­
pellers had stopped and tug boats moved alongside the dis­abled ship to prevent it from wandering near the derricks. ­
The Coast Guard said the Mimosa was of Greek regisrer sailing out of Cyprus. All 26 of its crew were accounted for. 
The Burmah Agate sailed under a Liberian flag . Thirty of its crew of 38 were unac­counted for. 
The Coast Guard said three of the dead were from the tanker, but could not idenify the fourth victim. 
The Burmah Agate and the_ Mimosa collided in the predawn darkness about five miles off the island city of Galveston, about 50 miles south of Hou­ston on the Texas Gult Coast. 
"We don't think she'll blow 

Stewart organizes disarmament group 
by jim Soisson 

Awareness through education 
is the primary thrust of the 
Committee for the Investigation 
of Military, Nuclear, and Dis­
armament Policy, accordin~ to 
Committee President Chr1sto­
pher Stewart. 
''There is generally a woeful 
lack of understanding and 
awareness at Notre Dame," 
Stewart said. He noted that this 
university is not unique in that 
respect, but reflects the situa­
tion of other universities across 
the country. 
Stewart said that some people 
incorrectly believe that the 
issues the group investig~tes 
Disclosure 
indicates 
more details 
SEOUL• South Korea (AP) ­
South Korean spy chief Kim 
Jae-Myu's plot to assassinate 
President Park Chung-hee in­
cluded plans for a possible raid 
by 60 or 70 heavily armed KCIA 
agents on an emergency cabin­
et meeting after the killing, 
informed sources said yester­
day. 
The disclosure indicated 
Kim's assassination plans were 
more detailed and complete 
than the official announcement 
had said. 
The sources said the raiding 
party was in place last Friday 
when Kim killed Park and the 
president's chief bodyguard, 
Cha Chi-chul, and a five-man 
Korean Central Intelligence 
Agency squad killed five other 
Park bodyguards . 
Kim apparently wanted to 
have martial law declared and 
be in a position to manipulate 
the martial law commander, the 
sources said. 
The raiding }?arty was to attack 
the cabinet if1t failed to impose 
martial law at an emergency 
session sure to follow the 
assassination, the sources said. 
The cabinet did declare mar­
tial law, however, and Kim was 
arrested. 
The squad never acted. 
Its members are among the 80 
or more KCIA officials detained 
and now beinginterrogated, the 
sources said. 
are too overwhelming. "Pro­blems are created by people and should be solved by them," he said. "We can't leave lea­dership strictly to the leaders." 
The focus ofthe organization's educational awareness lies in four main areas: moral and ethical, political, economic and business, and nuclear energy and wastes. Approximately 50 members are drrectly or indi­rectly involved, Stewart said, noting that they are good and concerned people. 
Group plans include showing films'-such as "Suicide or Survival,'' providing literature in the different areas, a news­letter, a referendum room, and a bulletin board in Volunteer Services. 
Other go_als inclu~e ~etting up a symposmm constsnng of va­rious .speakers, employing a part .tune graduate student to do research, and arranging a debate between a member of the theology department and a member of the ROTC depart­ment. 
Stewart wants to see indivi­duals on campus focus more on ethical and moral rather than monetary values. "We are taught that money is more important than ethical views,'' he said. 
Stewart was not surprised with the report released October 30 by the presidential commission 
(continued on page 19] 


Internships to start 
The Americans of Democratic Action (ADA) Youth Caucus Washington Internship Pro­gram is designed to give college students a better understano­ing of the Federal government and the workings of Washing­ton D.C. through practical ex­perience. The interns will also participate in seminars held by members of Congress. 
The internships will begin Thursday, January 3, 1980 and will run through rhe month. Applications will be accepted through November 16. For 
more  information  contact  the  
ADA  Youth Caucus  at  Suite  
850,  1411  K  Street,  N.W.  

Washington D.C., 20005; 202-638-6447. 

up," Lt. Tom Pearson said of the freighter before it was brought under control. ''The only fuel she has aboard is her own. The problem is that she's afire and under way with no one aboard.'' 
The Coast Guard was trying to put a crew aboard the freighter from a helicopter hovering a­bove. 
Chang Ying-Chuang, a 53­year-old crewman on the tank­er, said through an interpreter that he was aslepp in his cabin when a loud explosion shook him swake. He said he ran to open his portholes after the smoke poured into his cabin. He then put on his life jacket and went to the deck. 
''There was frre and smoke everywhere," said Chang, of Taiwan. "We could not fight the fire. It was no use. Everybody else jumped over­board. We ~id not jump so we were saved. 
Privat boats and Coast Guard helicopters evacuated some of the crewmen, working in gentle, 4-foot seas under clear skies. 

BASEMENT, NQfRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11am· 2pm (M· f) other times by appointment 
WE HANDLE ALL FINANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDENTS & STAFF 
NATURAL FOODS RESTAURANT 
i On Riverbend Plaza .Soda Foutain, .Juice Bar' 303 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST. Carry-Out Menu 
L 
Coupon and Student ID 1 
South Bend, In. Phone 288-1911  46601  Full Service Dining  
Student Special·-------...I $100 OFF II any -dinner after 5 pm I I **** IOffer good with  



-------· 
Open: Mon. thru Thurs. 10 am-8 pm Fn. and Sat. 10 am -9 pm 
© Continental Restaurant Systems 1979 



Those tasty creations that11 tickle your palate and tantalize•your·pocketbook...Imagine the sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered wfth Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, onions and peppers .••Or juicy beef brochette, charbroUed sirloin bits marinated in a delicious 
burgundy sauce • .'.There's even a fresh catch of the day for seafood lovers ...They must be tried to be believed ... 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, 272-5478 
Phone for reservations 
DIMRFOI$5.45 
When you're re&lly hungry, order a complete 
dinner with all the trimmings at a price that 
tastes as good as the food ...There's 
succulent prime rib, fresh fish, and saucy 
.' teriyaki chicken.-..It's more than a mouthful ... 
Sunday 
Noon to 4p.m. 
Mon. thru. Thurs. 
5p.m. to 7p.m. 





The Observer 

Attention: St. Mary's Students Tutors Needed 
Contact_Saint Mary's College Volunteer Service at 5616 

(0uJt gpeciaQt~ 

©ven-CBaL?ed c.Ap~Qe cpancaf2eg 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze never surpassed! 
U.S. 31[Dixlaway] North In Roseland 
[Across from Hoflday Inn] 272-7433 Sun.-Thurs. 6A.M. to 9P.M. 
Fri. &Sat. 6a.m. -10 p.m. 

CONCERTS WEST !'RESENT 
EAGLES 
THE LONG RUN 
TOUR 79 
TTTlT1JIJTTn·lTTT'YIJ'TfTTTTTHTOlTn11JT01"mTTJnl&bbbbliiiiiiiiiiiilliCIIO 
[)on Henley • Glenn Frey Don Felder •joe Vfillsh Tilnothy B. Sch11zit 
Friday Nov. 16 8pm 
Notre Dame ACC All seats reserved front stage $12.50 Rear Stage 10&$7.50 tickets on sale A CC Box Office 9am to 5pm also usual ACC outlets and 
River City Records Stores in So. Bend and Mishawaka 
~---------------------~ 
Friday, November 2, 1979-page 6 
• • . Williams 
NEH offers awards 
The National Endowment for Applications are available the Humanities, through its through the Financial Aid Of­newly expanded youth grants fice and are due December 1. program, will offer more than These grants offer up to 100 awards throughout the $2500 to individuals and nation this fall to students and $10,000 for groups. They are other young people to pursue intended for people between independent projects m the the ages of 15 and 25 who have humanities. not completed academic or 
professional training. 


Mr. Douglas Beland, the new director ofthe Notre Dame Choral groups, rehearses the Glee Club fortonight'sannual Fall Campus Concert in Washington Hall at 8:15p.m. [Photo by Rick DohringJ 
protests similar to Martin Lu­ther Kin~ Jr.'s protests. After the assismation of Lord Mount­batten earlier this fall the Peace People had four separate pro­tests and a memonal service. "We try to have immediate action after any incident," ex­plained Williams. 
Williams has been traveling around the United Stated since Oct. 14 and finishes her trip Nov. 10. She has been visiting the colleges and universities talking to students about peace and non-violence. As one of the leaders of the movement and a Nobel winner Williams says there is a responsibility to look at other countries and be aware of their trouble and oppressions too. The Peace People's Move­ment has groups in the Repub­lic of Ireland, England, and in the United States. The move­ment here is centered in New Rochelle University, in New Rochelle, N.Y. 
[continued from page lJ 
government-backed. "We are a political group with no ties to anY. political parry,'' stressed Williams. 
When asked about the mem­bership of the movement Wil­liams said, ''we have all classes of people from the very rich to the very poor. There are more working class people involved. The membership fluctuates. There are 100,000 signatures on the Declaration of the Peace People, but between 7000 or 8000 actually working in the movement." Most of the mem­ber are women but many men are involved too. 
The activities of the movement have evolved into non-violent 

To rescue Chrysler 
Carterproposes bailou_t 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Carter administration went to the rescue of financially stag­gering Chrysler Corp. yester­day, urging Congress to ap­prove up to $1.5 billion in loan guarantees for the nation's No. 3 automaker. 
Treasury Secretary G. William Miller said the administration decided to go ahead with the bailout, the largest ever for a 
U.S. corportation, even though it disagrees philosophically with the notion ofdirect govern­ment intervention in private enterprise. 
''Thts is a unique situation that stands on its own merits," Miller said. ''The alternative costs are more onerous to our country than the risk of loan guarantees.'' 
The administration aim is to head off a collapse that could result in widespread layoffs and pose another major headache for an already-troubled econ­omy. 
The plan sent to Con~ress would double the $750 million that the administration pre­viously indicated was the most it would support for Chrysler, Under the plan, Chrysler 
would be required to raise an 
additional $1. 5 billion from 
private sources before it is 
assured the government loan 
guarantees. 
Analysts believe that without laq~er loan guarantees, the natton's No.3 automaker would be for,ced into bankruptcy, Mil­ler satd. 
He said such a collapse would "affect the stability of the (nation's) overall economic out­look" and bring the risk of ''substantial unemployment (and) economic disruption. 
In New York, Chrysler chair­man Lee A. Iacocca told reporters he was ''delighted with the action'' and considered it "a vote of confidence we needed." The board of Dir­ectors of the Detroit-based company was meeting in New York. 
The bailout proposal was sent to Congress wtth Miller's strong call that it be enacted this year. 
''Each day we delay, the situation gets shakier and you need more money," said Rep. William Moorhead, D-Pa., 

chairman of the subcommittee considering the bailout. 
Moorhead, while saying pas­sage of the bill will be difficult, called the new $1.5 billion sum realistic. That also was Miller's message to the giant auto­maker. 
''This is adequate financing'' to return Chrysler to a viable corporation, he told reporters. 
Chrysler's disappearance would increase unemployment and welfare payment, reduce federal and local taxes, and force the government to pay out pension guarantees to many autoworkers, Miller said. 
In addition, he said, "We need to maintain a c~mpetitive posture" in the auto mdustry. Chrysler's loss would leave only two major automakers -Ford and General Motors. 
Chrysler announced on Tues­day a staggering $460.6 million loss in the third quarter, the largest deficit ever for an American corporation. It brought the company's ~o~ses so far this year to $721 milhon, and Chrysler officials expect 1979's final deficit to reach a whopping $1 billion. 
~:~~.~~· 
..... "'"' 

The Observer 
Baker announces carididacy 
WASHINGTON (AP) Ack­nowledging that he has yet to demonstrate that he can beat his Republican rivals, Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr. announc­ed his candidacy for president yesterday and urged the voters to "judge me." 
"By the time we're in the middle primaries, I've got to stop being in second place and start being in fust place,' ' Baker said, when asked when he thought he would win his fust primary. 
The Tennessee senator said that at this point in the race for the 1980 Republican Presiden­tial nomination, Ronald Reagan is the front-runner. Rea~an plans to announce his candtda­cy Nov. 13. 
The 53-year-old senator is the ninth contender for the GOP 
winter 
by Mary Leavitt 

With winter on its way, the 
Mary's College ground­
is in the process of 
· the campus for the 
months ahead. 
the preparations being 
are the planting of tulip 
and the cleaning of 
beds, according to Joe 
director of ground­
. Due to the heavy October 

nfall, groundcrew has been 
to cut the late growing 
resulting from the extra 
raking of leaves is 
the top priority for the 

they hope to have the campus cleared of leaves before the first snowfall. 
The groundcrew is also trying to complete a softball diamond for the SMC softball team before winter hits. The outfield has just been completed and tile all-clay infield is in the process of being constructed. 
During snowy weather, the ground crew is responsible for clearing the sidewalks and steps on the campus while the convent takes care of the main roads and the parking lots. Equipment is being readied and salt is being brought in to meet this need. 
Fortunately, if the experts are accurate in their predictions, South Bend will not be exper­iencing a very harsh winter. Ther average snowfall will be approximately the same as last year, but no big storms are expected. 
' 'I hope the experts are right," said Bonadies, "but whether they are or not, we'll keep the campus cleared and in good shape for the students." 

open mon-sat 2pm-3am 
GOND 
Beat Middies 

Already announced are form­er Gov. John B. Connally of Texas, former United Nations Ambassador and GOP national chairman George Bush, Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, Reps. Philip Crane and John Ander­son, both from Illinois, Sen. Larry Pressler of South Dakota, former Minnesota Gov. Harold Stassen and Los Angeles busi­nessman Benjamin Fernandez. 
Baker made his declaration in the cavernous Senate Caucus Room where he attained nation­al recognition six years ago as the senior Republican on the Senate Watergate committee. 
The room was crowded with his supporters, who interrupted his statement frequently with applause. Seated off to one side were 24 Republican senators, more than half of the 41 of whom Baker is the elected leader. 
Baker departed from the traditional generalities of pres­idential announcement speech­es to renew his appeal for defeat of the SALT II treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union. 

Alberts Animal Empire Athlete's Foot 
L.S. AYRES Baker Shoes Berman Buckskin Bernard Wigs Book World Bottom Half 

Bresler's 33 Flavors Brown's Sporting Goods Burger Chef Camelot Music Card Cage Casual Corner Cavalier Camera Charlie Chan Restaurant Chess King Chlck-fii·A Cinema I, II, Ill Circus World Toys Claire's Boutique Clifford's Diamond Center 
*Clock Collection Cookie Factory County Seat 


OVER  90  SHOPS  
AND  SERVICES  
FOR  ALL  YOUR  

SHOPPING NEEDS ••••••• JUST A FIVE MINUTE DRIVE AWAY! 

UUJVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD. 
Mall Hours: Mon thru Sat 1 0 am • 9 pm, Sunday 12 • ·5:30 pm 
A joint venture developmeht of The Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, managing partner,, and Cressy Associates 

''Approval of this treaty with its acceptance of Soviet strate­gic superiority could guarantee to the Soviet Union the margin of error that used to be ours," Baker said. 
Asked about his suggestions that his stro11g opposttion to SALT is an effort to win back conservative support lost when he backed the Panama Canal treaties, Baker replied: 
''The question was, is my opposition to SALT politically motivated ... the answer is no... ."I am absolutely convinced that the only way we can devise and implement a rational for­eign policy for the United States is fust to recognize the major threat to the United States and that is the Sooviet Union." 
Baker said that in the days and weeks ahead he would spell out his program for l_aunching "A niw ge neratton . of •confidence--­
"But unlike others in the past, I will not deal in promises. I do not ask you to trust me, I ask you to judge me. Promises are cheap, but America needs performance.'' 

1 
Friday, November 2; 1979 -page 7
-

~ JUST fOR THE RECORD ~ In the JOo Ce"•• offe11 10% off on 



UUIVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD. 
It's Allin Store For You..• 
Cressy & Everett Realtors Evenson's Cards & Gifts Father & Son Shoes First National Bank Florsheim Shoes Fox's Jewelers Foxmoor Casuals Frontier fruit & Nut Fun-N-Games Gantos The Gap General Nutrition Gilbert's Gordon Jewelers Great Hot Dog Experience Hanover Shoes Hickory Farms Homemaker Shop Hot Sam's House of VIsion 
*J.L. HUDSON 
*Hush Puppies Jean Nicole Jeans West Jo-Ann Fabrics Just Jeans Karmelkorn Shoppe Kinney Shoes Lane Bryant Lerner Shop The Limited Lion's Den Loading Dock Louie's Tux Shop Lowrey Organ M.arianne Shop Merle Norman Milady Shop Morrow's Nut House Mothercare Music land National Uniform Shop Naturallzer Shoes Newman's Nobll Shoes Orange Julius OscoDrugs Parklane Hosiery 




*J.C. PENNEY Piercing Pagoda Radio Shack Red Cross Shoes 
Redwood & Ross Regis Hairstylists Richman Brothers 
J. Riggings 

J.B. Robinson Jewelers Scotto Pizza SEARS Silverman's Size 5-7-9 Shop 
-so-Fro Falffics Spencer Gifts Stride Rite Bootery Susie's Casuals Tammey Jewels Things Remembered Thom MeAn Shoes The Tinder Box Village Scene Wags Restaurant Walden Books Wlcks-N-Stlcks World Bazaar Your Father's Mustache Zale's Jewelers 
•opening soon 

--------~-----.......------------~­




Editorials 
Justice in the tenure process Nancy Dise 
) ustice at Notre Dame is are not made public, presum­
many-faceted. We speak des­ably for his protection. 
pairingly of the problems of Certainly, however, the pro­
academic honesty, University tection is for the university 
investment policies, student which fears suits and the com­
enrollment quotas, and world mittee members who do not 
hunger, Within the past year, wish their reasons known. 
yet another aspect of the justice In recent years, it has become 
Issue, long known to faculty, obvious that more and more 
has come to the attention of emphasis has been put on 
students. This is the issue of publications when reviewing 
faculty tenure. candidates for tenure. Notre 
A small group gathered in Dame has its reasons. College 
Hayes-Healy auditorium Tues­enrollment will be declining m 
day night to hear five speakers the future, and the prestige 
--four tenured professors and a associated with a research insti­
student--voice their opinions tution may finally put Notre 
on the Notre Dame tenure Dame into the Big League 
system. The content of the associated with Harvard and 
talks ranged from justification Yale. In the process, however, 
of the system as it now stands we may destroy the very thing 
to a censuring of the entire that makes us uni<J,ue and 
concept of tenure. The "Com­successful --a first class 
munity Dialogue on Tenure," Catholic undergraduate institu­
sponsored by the University tion--a teaching school. There 
Committee on Education for are few persons who can be 
Justice, opened free discussion excellent research/ authors and 
and debate on this issue of such exciting teachers at the same 
importance to both students time, for energy and talent 
and 
teachers. must be concentrated more in 
one area than in another. 
Conservatism at Notre Dame 
is selected for. No better arena 
exists for this type of "selec­
tion" than the tenure process. 
Is not the rapid weeding out of 
radical teachers resulting in an 
increasingly bland diet for the 
students? Designed to protect 
academic freedom, tenure may 
the dialogue upon which I achieve the opposite goal in an 
would like to elaborate. Rev­untenured faculty unwilling to 
erend Enda McDonagh of the rock the boat, and an intellect­
theology department noted that ually conservative tenured 
a university should stand as a faculty "stuck" at an institution 
visible sign of man's pursuit of they are reluctant to leave. 
the truth. This pursuit is best As well as a school and 
achieved in the classroom, -football team, Notre Dame is an 
where students constantly chal­efficiently run business. 
lenge and question. A univer­Research money comes in, en­
sity, then, must have students rollment is increased, and new 
as its first priority. An academ­buildings are erected--while the 
ic institution which is perverted library continues to decline in 
from this ~oal, is turned into an quality and a few professors 
"industry ', and ev~tually de­are dismissed for what appear 
stroys itself. to be at best, arbitrary reasons. 
Peggy Osberger, government From time to time a student or major, further stressed that rwo will get vocal, but the tenure affects students as well protests always die down, as we as professors. The students' have other things to worry say in the tenure decision is about. limited, with Teacher-Course Do we truly learn and choose Evaluations their only substan­for ourselves, broadeni.,_g our tial input. The secrecy sur­mind and our experiences or, as rounding the tenure decision, with parietals, are our Lhoices the real criteria used, the made for us? Where is the impossibility of an appeal, and justice for the student, the the apparent emehasts on re­teacher? In the end, we all search all contnbute to the suffer. 
injustice of tenure decisions. The student is hurt by being denied the broadly based teacher in favor of the narrow, specialized researcher. Count­ering this point, Dr. Robert Burnes cited the Ladd-Lepset study in stating that most of a professor's time is spent teach­InS, even in hig:hly research­onented institutions. There­fore, the primary emphasis of most universities is still with the students. 
The tenure decision is confi­dential. A person denied tenure is not told at what level in the reviewing process he was turned down, and the reasons 

Big Oil 


WhoS doing the blaming? 
Before the current assault on the U.S. oil 
companies reaches hysterical dimensions, some­
one should make a final, treacherous attempt to 
develop a fair perspective on the issue. 
I volunteer. 
Ofcourse, the recent release of the third-quar­ter profits of the big oil ftrms and the subsequent furor which it provoked in the nation seem to militate against any pro-oil arguments. After all, Texaco's 211 l?ercent gleaning appears incredible. If you're toto dollar figures, Exxon's $1.5 million chunk is mind-blowing. 
I think we should be circumspect, however, in our quest to discover who deserves the blame for Big Oil's profiteering and market power. Maybe we should ask: Who's doing the blaming? 
The first answer is the federal government. Yet, the government should actually blame itself for ever letting the oil industry get out of hand. In the early years of the petroleum age, the government hesitated to interfere in foreign oil affairs of the major U.S. oil companies because it feared political bungling overseas. These companies, which were later nicknamed "The Seven Sisters,'' subsequently slipped oil policy decisions under their own jurisdiction. 
Secondly, politicians are suddenly doing a lot of blaming. But then, the oil profits issue isn't the only one this baffling breed is squawking about. In fact, it seems that they'll flock to just about any issue which is popular and one-sided enough to safely propel themselves to reelec­tion. Shouldn't con~ressmen be doing less blaming and more domg? They're as much at fault as the government for allowing Bis Oil so much leeway. Oh, but I'm forgettmg the primary precept of the new political "style": aefend your independence and individual posi­tion on every salient issue to the death. ever happened to consensus? 
Finally, we come to the essence, the people. Many are blaming the oil companies rakmg in huge profits during a tough inflation ary period. Moreover, these people point that the surplus funds aren't exploration. But ifBig Oil is ignoring the Administration's price guidelines, they won' the first industry to do so. And study study, including some by the government, failed to prove that the industry's profits excessive over the long term. The oil industry is strictly playing by "the of the game" which all Americans adhere common folk and top execs alike. · · profits is the ethos of capitalism, and makes good capitalist sense to get the IuJ!:uc:s~ market price possible. If oil is uc<t:uiiUI.III! costly to produce, then prudence reinvestment C!f capital, . whether into reserves, uranmm deposits, or Ward. Since no one can prove any u•c:ll!a11n the part of the oil firms, we can only accuse of being a bunch of super capitalists. 
But, you say, what about some kind of' 'social conscience" or consideration for the "common good"? Let's not be hypocritical. Remember, we all play by the same rules. Dog eat dog, anything for a buck, looking out for Number One -we know what these mean. If we recognize that oil corporations are all run by real people and real Americans, then we can see that the majority of us are just as "selfish" as they are. Few of us consciously act with the common good 
dutifully in mind.  But seriously,  if you were  
president of Exxon, wouldn't you  like  a  nice  
Juicy profit too?  ·  


administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..... ............. Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Feat11res Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly &x Q Noire Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .... .......... Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame dulac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nttessarily reflect the policies of the opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to a11· members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak Exec11tive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis News Editor ........... ......... Mark Rust News Editor .................Mike Shields SMC Exec11tive Editor ..... Ellen Buddr. SMC NeUJS Editor........Margie Brassd B11siness Manager........Steve Odland Prod11ction Manager .... .]ohn McGrath Advertising Ma1111ger.........Bob Rudy Controller..................Kevin Manion Circtdatio• Mi11111ger......Greg Hedges 
-~--------------~----------------­

~----~------------------------------------------------~~----, 
The Observer 

Friday, November 2, 1979-p~e 9 
P. 0. Box Q 
Church not in position to limit 
the priesthood 
Dear Editor: 

In Thursday's edition of The Observer, James Faulkner a­greed with the Pope's decision to restrict the priesthood to men. According to the writer, one must ''maintain the integri­ty of the Church brought about by our Christian ancestors.'' Mr. Faulkner's major argument for upholding Pope John Paul's views is based on tradition. 
Today's Church, unfortunate­ly is no looser in a position to strictly limtt the number of persons entering the priest­hood. In the first place, the ratio of parishioners to priest is constantly on the rise. Second­ly many Catholics might find the Church's out-and-out dis­crimination towards women enough reason to discourage them from dedicating their entire lives to God. The 
' obvious solution would be to 
allow  women  into  the  priest­ 
hood.  
According  to  Faulkner,  

"Strong tradition reserves the priesthood for men." Tradition 1s hardly a reason for maintain­ing anything outdated when it 
can be improved. Furthermore, 
he says that Americans "find it 
hard to understand why such 
traditions cannot be abolished 
in favor of modern thought.'' 

Yet, in our own lifetimes, we have seen many changes that certainly have uprooted some ancient customs: the Mass spoken in English, the new rite of reconciliation, the lay Eu­charistic ministers, communion received in the hand, and so on. 
Changes in the Church must not be thrust upon countries not quite prepared to accept them. Americansnost likely would be more open to change, thanwould Central and South Americans, for example. In countries where the majority of Catholics are more doubtful of women's capabilities, women priests, at first, could have a smaller role in the parish (if possible) than their male counterparts. In this way, a radical change could somewhat be avoided. 
Scriptural law, as far as I know, does not mention any sex restrictions for the priesthood. Women are prevented from becoming priests because of human law, written hundreds of years ago at a time when women were little respected. Certainly, Catholicism should not be a religion that adapts itself to the times, changing its doctrines only to appeal to a larger audience. Instead, when no apparent reason can be seen for not changing the doctrines, with the sole intent of benefit­ting Catholicism, something must be done. And in this situation, the solution seems to point toward allowing women mto the priesthood. 
Michael Burton 
Brouhaha over 
ROTC has gone 

far enough 
Dear Editor: 
I feel that all of the brouhaha raised about ROTC and its place on campus has gone far enough. I've waited until now to state my views because I felt that the situation would surely be resolved quickly and easily. But, it seems that there are a few die-hard irrationals on campus who have yet to be convinced. · 
In the first place, we do not live in a Utopian world. At the present time, aggression and violence are all around us. Contrary to Jerry Murphy's statement, we cannot ignore 
the Russians. Or the Chinese. 
OrtheJapanese. Etc. Todoso 
would be both stupid and 
inviting. We must protect 
ourselves as a nation, or every­
thing that we stand for, includ­
ing Christian ideals, could be 
gone tomorrow. 
It would be nice to be able to 
"set the example" so to speak. 
But the plain and simple fact is 
that it would be absurd in 
today's world. Yes Ms. Dill, 
the Holy Father is a Pope of 
Peace. But peace is an ideal, a 
goal to be strived for. The 
answer is not to lay down our 
guns tomorrow. The rest of the 
world is not ready for that ... 
yet. Disarmament will take atime. In the meantime, 
wouldn't you want someone 
here to defend you if we were 
attacked tomorrow? 
Secondly, those ofyou scream­
ing that ROTC and Christian 
ideals don't mix haven't even 
taken the time to find out for 
sure the Church's stand on the 
issue. Our Church proclaims 
peace and brotherhood as an 
ultimate goal, but also ad­
vocates the right for a nation to 
defend itself. (See St. Augus­
tine's Just War theory.) The 
Church is realistic. Unfor­
tunately, I cannot say the same 
for those of you who feel that 
ROTC has no place here. 
Paul D. Murphy 

Part of faith is accepting teaching 
of the Church 
[)ear Editor: 
I . was truly amazed with Ann Walshe's letter (Oct. 15) con­cerning women and the priest­hood. To claim that women are, and have been dominated by men a5 a result of "primitive and irrational fear" 1s rather ridiculous. It does not say terribly much about women if they allow themselves to be dominated for such a shallow reason. 
I cannot understand why Ms. W alshe views the Church as an opponent of poor helpless women. Did Ms. Walshe ever stop to think that perhaps sexism is not the reason behind the Pope's decision to bar women from the priesthood? 
I believe that women are not meant to be priests for reasons . that may not be totally clear at this time. Could it possibly be that this is one of the mysteries of the Church, and serves to test and strengthen our faith? 
Part of faith is accepting the Church's teachings--you just cannot pick and choose a few pet doctrines, ignore the rest, and still call yourself a Catholic. 
Helen Kerwin 



Christian representation 
Viewpoint
needed in tnilitary 
" John Trimbach 
When asked what measures could be taken to improve security conditions for Notre Dame and Saint I am writing this column in respo11se'' military who will insjst on moral war Mary's women, sophomore speech and drama major toJerry Murphy's letter of October 19. conduct and refuse to take part· in Rachael Patterson commented, "There are noAlthough I believe it was obvious to unjust and immoral actions. 
measures that will significantly improve security until most readers, Mr. Murphy's com­Mr. Murphy contends that it is not only the women, but all ~embers of the ND-SMC ments demonstrated a lack of know­absurd to have a preference for community, rid themselves of their false sense ofledge regarding ROTC in particular liberally educated officers over regi­security and become aware of the sexual abuses thatand the military in general. mented military officers, since "the have been covered up for too long.
Mr. Murphy apparently has confused mission of the military is the same.'' If 
_._..,.......,4(...;.U~~­

the respectable position of pacifism he means that the moral character of arrd non-violence as being the only the soldier is irrelevant, his argument view concerning war which is acce~t­takes the prize for absurdity. 
John Kalata is a sophomore who lives in Grace Hall. 
able to the Church. Hence his belief His contentions concerning ROTC are ''The recent assaults on campus are disturbing ---no that ROTC should not be allowed on fraught with inconsistency and falsity. 

one here should be afraid to walk outside after dark. 
the Notre Dame campus. For example, I cannot understand how Lighting on the campuses and between Notre Dame What he fails to realize is that there he can claim that he is ''not advocating and Samt Mary's should definitely be improved, are other tenable positions within the any solution to the problem" while especially on the perimeter of the campuses. SecurityCatholic church which allow for war in simultaneously calling for the banish­should concentrate less on ticketing cars and extreme situations, provided certain ment of ROTC from the campus. His confiscating kegs, and should increase its visibilityconditions are met. These conditions notion that P.eople in ROTC are and accessibility to the students, especially after dark. 
are embodied in just war theory. In his "taught to kdl" is glaringly inac­Foot patrols of the road to Saint Mary's and the less article, "The Moralitv of Obliteration curate. I would be interested in 
populated areas of campus are needed. Emergency Bom~ing,"Fr. John C. Ford, professor knowins how he arrived at this 
phones direct to security located around campus ementus ot moral theology, states that conclusion, · since he obviously is should be considered. Finally, the shuttle service "the overwhelming majority of Catho­unfamiliar with the ROTC curriculum. 
should provide quicker service at later hours, possibly lic theologians would answer that The bulk of ROTC training does not even around the clock.'' 
there can be a justifiable modern even deal with combat. Although it is ·Beth Larocca, a senior who lives at Campus View, war. " possible that some people in ROTC suggests, ''Women should be allowed to park onWhat remains as the extremely will someday be called on to take up campus. But since adequate facilities are notdifficult task of moral thinkers is arms, their decision to do so hinges presently available, the closest parking spaces in D-1, deciding when and if a war is being more on their moral principles than on D-2 and the other lots should be reserved for women.
fought morally. In order to be moral, their ROTC instruction. 
, Residents ofLyons Hall, for example, should not have we must invoke moral principles and As I have said before, it is important to park in D-1. A second measure would be tojust war theory. We draw a distinction for students at Notre Dame to take increase security during the warmer months when the between the justness of a war Gus ad advantage of courses which offer the possibility of an attack is more likely. Specifically,bellum), for which soldiers are not opportunity to investigate these moral there should be more "patrolling" on foot. A mostresponsible, and the means by which problems, such as War/Law/Ethics ' im_{>ortant measure would be to revise security'sthe war is_ fought Gus in bello), for (Phil 381) and other courses which hinng procedures and qualifications to insure thatwhich they are responsible. If the present the problems of war from a only-properly trained, capable individuals are hired."
soldier is a moral thinker, he must Catholic perspective. The more the decide ifthe order he is given is moral. Christian viewpoint is present in the 


To do this, he must have a moral background. Thus it is imperative, I believe, that ROTC be represented by moral thinkers of the Christian _persua­sion. There must be Christian mput to war making decisions. I believe it is for this reason that Fr. Hesburgh supports ROTC at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Murphy is quite right to assert that the situation demands serious thought. The horrible nature of war calls for serious moral discourse. This is why we need Catholics in the military, the better ar~ our chances of conducting war mor.ally and justly (and less often) .. 

Mr. Murphy's case against ROTC Junior Mike Mlynski remarks,.-"Security on this and the military seems to be inconsis­campus is a paper tiger; it is like the instructions at tent with the Catholic church's view of the bottom of the pages in an SAT test which boldly a nation's right to defend itself. He defy the test taker to go to the next section. Venturing has offered us his view of ROTC at forth places one in the DMZ. The frre comes from both Notre Dame, but has not shown us why ends. Improvement of security calls for a cease-frre, we should believe it. Instead, he has and peace begins behind the lines. shown us his lack of understanding of, the situation. And that's the bottom line. 
·~--~-----~-­
..., The Observer Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 10 
200 North Main ELKHART 
JIM BEAM 
WHISKEY 
1.75 Ltr. 
8.99 

CALVERT 
.... 





KINGS CELLAR 
Spirits supermarkets 
1621 South Bend Ave. 
254 Dixieway North SOUTH BEND 
GORDON'S 
GORDON'S
CANADIAN 


VODKA
MIST 

1.75 Ltr. 
1.75 Ltr. 

6.99·
8.99 
GALLO
GALLO 
ANDRE 
VERMOUTH 


Hours  Monday thru Thursday 8 a.m.· 10 p.m.  LOW, LOW BEER PRICES!  Friday and Saturday 8 a.m.-llp.m.  
PRICES GOOD THRU NOV. 5,1979  
Miller's  6.79  Miller's Lite  6.99  Falstaff  4.99  Goebels  5.59  
Stroh's  6.79  Braumeister  4.19  Schlitz  5.99  Lowenbrau  9.59  
Hamm's 5.79  Old Milwaukee 5.59  Fox Deluxe  3.99  Olympia  5.99  
Blatz  6.09  Budweiser  6.79  Michelob  7.49  Pabst  5.29  
Busch  6.79  Old Style  5.99  Heineken  14.75  Weideman  5.09  

• 




In anniversary game 


Irish 
Anniversaries are reminiscing. Theysit back and ·· 
and "UJ.U<:LUJJL" 
have uaJ»v•;u.: Tnm,nrr·n• 
u4'fUU.>> was 
stadmm as he. line fof three tOU!Cilc:to~rn Irish to a 26l2 win, the 

~~~~~~ar:fr!h~: n1~::~~in ·.. 
Rockne. 

Much has changed since Green has gone and come two schools have met every with the Irish posting'~a coJ.lVlridJ.mr 38-9-1 advantage ovet that 42-9-1 overall. • . 
The stadium has· seen little change over those 50 years but you can rest assured that the teams have. 





The Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supplement 
""""!!<l.l.l~H ~-.. .·.... . . . ai··•··. ,..7 ~~~~ld\e~f~~ ~ha! bnd of .
· ·.. 

..·... ·. · · are sp ~·with containment.''"':· otr:tn1ree of .~etr 'With so ·· addt!lQ.O,,j missing, W Milo ts" ·'sing 
mtss Vagas time. split 
a mild ·questionable for 
.~~··~··o backs, Mike Sherlock and who have missed the 

·  
prol)!tttmS~  
IflJ!lJles to time.···  t  • .  .  so many coniing at one . m  

But the sMt aM~ g.$. ti~ The Irish offem~i·~as "hffn 
· little 
. (last no pass hard 
attle,S~--....,;;;t~· 
. ... ··:~:~~.:"~:.;. ·· •.. ·~vr 
., :rac)9ng up well ;over 

.ftgaipst both Souihe;rn Cal 
Carohna. Over the s(;ason' first seven games, Notte ·Qame averaged an impressive 395.1 per game including 185.0 on ground. 
Something has to give, howeyer. Navy boa~ts one of the nation's fin~t defensive units. In their seven' games,, the Middies have give up a paltry 
78.1 yards per game on the ground and 
just 223.3 overall. 1 "I know Navy has been banged up a 
little bit the last few weeks," said Devine, "but they are ,;:onsistendy one}\ of the best defensive teams in• the · country. They don't always haveJhe tremendous size, but,..they play heads up baek there, and .they d6n't .. 
many mistak~s .. ~fter seyj:n" the . longest 1n~1v1dual 

game, rushing he broke 5 yards against 

needs just 94 second straight <'\. 100-yard game 11th, a new Irish Male needs just one goal to tie Dave Reeve's Notre Dame single-season of 12...Tomorrow's game marks the 32nd consecutive sellout in Notre Dame Stadium...The last time the Middies beat the Irish was in 1963 
.when Heisman Trophy winner Roger Staubach led Navy to a 35-14 win in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Masztak continues tight end-tradition 

Notre Dame tightend Dean Masztak hooks up with quarterback. Rusty Lisch for one ofsix receptions last weekend against SoutlJ Carolina. 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
There's less than a minute left, and Notre Dame trails South Carolina, 17-10. The Irish have the ball on the Gamecock 17, as quarterback Rusty Lisch steps into the huddle. He calls a play, but then turns to tight end Dean Masztak and tells him to run a special pattern. 
Mastak assumes his position on the right side of the Irish offensive line. At the snap of the ball, he heads for the endzone, and then hooks his left. Lisch spots him, and fires the ball over the middle. Masztak stretches out his six-foot, four-inch frame,· and cradles the ball in his huge hands. He has time to make one leap into the air before he ismobbed by members ofthe Notre Dame student body. 
For the sophomore from Toledo, Ohio, the moment is almost indescrib­able. 
''It was just mostly excitement,'' recalls Masztak. ''At times like that there's really not a whole lot you can say to express the feelin~ that you have. It was just fantastic with the home crowd and all the fans yelling. It's just incredible feeling that goes through you.'' 
Masztak has been providin~ that incredible feeling for Notre Dame fans quite a bit recently, emerging as one of the top Irish pass catchers this year. With 17 receptions, including six against South Carolina, he trails only freshman Tony Hunter in that cate­gory. 
Masztak, along withlfellow tight ends Nick Vehr and Kevin Han, have been assuming an important role in Notre Dame's offense. 
''The patterns are mostly the same as they were last year," he describes. ''What we want to do is open the wide outs more. The tight end goes deep or comes across the middle in the opposite direction, taking other people with him and taking the pressure off the other guys.
''1 think it works out well, because if I take some guys with me, it leaves Ty (Dickerson), Pete (Holohan) or Tony (Hunter) open. Once they start double-covering them, you have the little short passes to the tight end over the middle.'' 
A lot of the credit for t11e improve­ment of the Irish passing attack has to go to quarterback Lisch, and Masztak is quick to credit the man that throws him the balL 
''I was around him in practice last year, and I have always thought that he was an excellent quarterback. He has a great arm and he's smart. He can get up to the line, P.ick out the defense, and run and audtble ifhe has to. But he has improved quite a bit this year ~arne by ~arne." 
After betng recrwted by "about 100 colleges" during his high school career, Masztak decided to choose between the University of Michigan and Notre Dame. ''I went to Michigan and I liked what I saw," he recalls, "but it was kind of big, maybe a bit too big. 
"I remember after the visit to Michigan I came here, and I tried to keep an open mind. But I got here and I saw the Dome and the sun shining off 
[continued on page 12) 

----~----~--­
The Irish Extra Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 12 


Notre Dame Stadium: 50years ago 
The· 'House that Rock Built ' celebrates anniversary with Irish-Middies clash 
The year was 1930. Herbert Hoover was President. October 11 of that year, the stadium was dedicated ) ean \ Harlow was the biggest thing on the screen. when Notre Dame played host to the U.S. Naval Babe Ruth was swinging the big bat. But, more Academy. Before 40,·593 fans, Notre Dame won 26-2. importantly, Knute Rockne was head football coach at Tomorrow, when the Midshipmen visit Notre Dame Notre Dame. Notre Dame Stadium was in its first year Stadium again, 59,075 fans will honor the 50th of use. Rockne's team, which was to go undefeated anniversary year of the "House That Rock Built." and claim the mythical national championship, played And while the names, the faces, the cheers, and the against Southern Methodist in its first home game.­uniform colors have changed over the years, the Before 14,751 spectators, the Irish won, 20-14. On structure has remained packed full of tradition. 
Whzle Ernie Schlueder [above] handled public address announcements from the playing field, fans flocked under the stands for great 11:nus. Concession stands [left] sold Coca-Cola, co ee, redhots, peanuts, andice cream [?r only a ime. Cigars and candy bars were either five or ten cents whzle cigarettes andthe specialty -a baked ham sandwich -went for twenty cents. The oldest university marching band [below] didn't always perform before sellout crowds. The average game attendance for the 1930 season was 21,314. [Photos courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Dept.] 




• • • Masztak 
[continued from page 11] 

it, and as soon as I stepped out of the car I knew I would be coming here.'' 
When he did come to Notre Dame, Masztak was followin& the footsteps of one of the top tight ends m Irish history, Ken MacAfee. People have even begun to compare Masztak with his predecessor, but he insists it has little effect on him. 
"There's not any pressure at all. When I was in high school he was my idol, and I always looked to him and watched him on TV, but there's no pressure now. You get to thinking about it every once in a while, but you just have to be yourself. 
"My name's Masztak, and it's spelled with a 'z', so I guess I've got to be just me. " 
People are predicting a bright future for Masztak, but he is still unsure of his future plans. ''I'm kind ofundecided about what I want to do after college. I'd like to go out and get a decent job when I get out, something nice, but I'm not sure. 
"I would definitely give pro ball a try, though.There's no passing that up. And as long as theyre giving away money to play you might as well take it.'' 
It's a ~ood bet that the pro scouts won't be passmg up Masztak in a few_years, and they shoul~ have no trouble finding the money to gtve away. 

The Irish Extra Friday, November 2, 1979-page 13 
\ 

.A major bowl? They gotta want it! 
Fly me down to Miami. Dallas, too, would be fine. Down in New Orleans the foodis good. We'dplay on Christmas ifTedsaidwe could ... 
It's a new variation on an old theme. 

Call it ''Take Me Out to a Bowl Ga!1le" and, if you're a Notre Dame fan, start singing and "really let 'em hear ya! '' because the Irish still have a chance to come back next semester with dark tans and a new set of wristwatches. 
But don't buy any Sea and Ski yet, because there's still four games left and not one of them looks to be a cakewalk. 
"We've still got to play five teams," said Bob Crable after the Southern Cal game, "and every one of them is gonna be tough. 
''No one lays down for Notre Dame." 
For the first 50 minutes of last Saturday's game, Crable looked like a candidate for Notre Dame's Prophet­in-Residence. 
Lay down??!! 
Not quite ... 

The Gamecocks stood up, reared back, chewed up everything that got in their way and spit out a 17-3 lead with 
17 minutes remaining in the game. At that point, listening on radio, I was mildly amused when Mutual broadcas­ter AI Wester said that South Carolina coach Jim Carlen told him the Game­cocks had been recruiting for t.ne Notre Dame game for three years. 
The other 30 teams they've played since then must have felt mighty left out. 
When I think about it now, the thing that frustrated me most was knowing how good the Notre Dame football team really is. You see, once you prove that you can do something, you lose the option of ever making excuses when you don't. I saw the Michigan game; the Michigan State game; the Georgia Tech game. I knew what Notre Dame could do on the football field. Now, I'm willing to painfully admit that perhaps Southern Cal had a better football team on October 20. I guess I knew that. 
But South Carolina did not on October 27 and I knew that too. 
Of course, the last seven minutes saved a potential suicide. (Which may or may not have been a relief, depending on your point of view.) But as I was putting away the razor blade and shutting off the gas, I started to wonder ... 
What the hell was wrong for the first three quarters of the game? Are football contests not 60-mmute affairs? 
If not, perhaps we should give the 59,000 people who payed to see this one three-fourths of their money back. 
After all, fair is fair. 
Di~ger Phelps, in one of his more pensive moods, once told me that when two teams have evenly-matched talent, 80 percent of the game is determined mentally. 
"It's concentration," explained Phelps. "Kids who play on a major colle~e level in any sport have the phystcal tools. The trick is to get them to think, remember assignments, re­sponsibilities and concentrate during a game." 
It may not be a reason, but it's a start. And one person looking for any explanation for a team's poor perfor­mance is hockey coach Lefty Smith. 
"Is it a mental letdown? That's a good question," agreed Smith. "As a coach, you don't know and yet you have to wonder. As we look at our kids, we see good, first-class people who are very dedicated and who want to win. Perhaps being highly touted before the season creates pressure-­makes them uptight. 
"You cannot give today's athletes a lot of rhetoric and expect them to buy it," Smith continues. "They listen and they know the difference and you're not gonna fool 'em." 
No one agrees more than Dan Devine. While he believes that motivation is a most important part of athletics, he does not subscribe to the ''fire and brimstone'' tactics that make for good movie scripts but not neces­sarily good football teams. 
"I think your kids have to be mentally prepared just like they have to be ):?hysically prepared and it is impossible to determine which is more important because I believe they are 

Frank 
LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 


both crucial," says Devine. On occasion It IS important to fire up a team with stronger methods but that depends on the game and the occa­sion. 
"Sometimes I will use motivational tactics that neither the players or even my assistants recognize," he goes on. ''Hopefully they are successful. But the bottom line is preparation and I think, looking back at the South Carolina game, we were mentally prepared because they are a good football team and we knew it." 
''You have to feel every game is a big game," says Kevin Loughery, head coach of the New Jersey Nets. ''You have to. If they only have 80 percent then I have to get that 80 percent out of them. Get what a player has. The 100 percent is what you ask for and I don't believe there are any excuses.'' 
A little idealistic, perhaps, but Loughery feels that emotion is critical if a team is to develop a winning tradition. Hubie Brown, head coach of the Atlanta Hawks, agrees but has his own thoughts on the matter. 
"What the fans don't know, or don't want to know is that maximum effort every night is simply not possible," said Brown. ''Just simply impos­sible.'' 
In this era of sophisitication and Dr. Spock athletes, it is hard to find a coach who unashamedly tells a post­game press gathering that his team won because "they wanted it more." It sounds awfully sloppy--in fact, it drips with goo. But Hubie Brown says it anyway. 
''The toughest thing is to get the players to want it,'' stresses Brown. "Really want it--the victory, the execution--want it as bad as you want it." 
Break out the bar rag and dry your eyes, Hubie. But wait a minute; he isn't crying. Because what he says is the essence ofathletics --and it's very' very true. 
So apply it to Notre Dame where soccer coach Rich Hunter will tell you that opponents come with fire in their eyes just for the chance to beat Notre Dame--at anything. How does one go about the task ofmotivating athletes to perform day in and day out against weaker opposition or against the best in the nation? 
"You don't give 'em any bull," emphasizes Digger Phelps. "You tell 'em the situation and let 'em know you expect them to J;>erform. And you hope--yes, I'll say lt--that they want to win as bad as you do." 
And so, the bottom line ... 
If the football team is to beat Navy and Tennessee; if they are to defeat Clemson and come home from Tokyo wearing the winner's kimono, they will 
have to want it more. 
If Digger Phelps is gonna get a chance to design a national champion­ship ring (and I can't wait to see it) his team will have to want it more. 
If Rich Hunter's soccer team wants to finish their season with three wins then they will have to want it more than the trio of opponents they will play. 
And if the hockey team is to be what everyone expects them to be--the best team in the nation--then, damn it, they are gonna have to want it most of all. 
Everybody laughs at the old Rockne tapes when he preaches pride, dedica­tion and "Going out there and winning for old Notre Dame." 
Funny, huh? Get a napkin and wipe the. sugar off his lips. But, then agam ... 
No coach ever had a better winning percentage at anything than Knute Rockne. 
No where ... No time. 
Maybe it was the emotion; or the patented pep talks that are as legend­ary today as the players and games of his 12-year reign. 
Or maybe his players just wanted it more? 
And ifyou still think that's nothing but a worn cliche--if you think it's maudlin and corny as hell, then you find a better way to say it. 
Naval Academy rigorous on, off field 
by Beth Huffman Women's Sports Editor 

Four years of free education, $350.00 a month, summers in Hawaii or the Phillippine Islands, a job guaranteed after graduation ... where can you get a deal hke this? Ask your Congressman for a recommendation to the Naval Academy at Annapolis. 
Approximately 1400 freshmen enter the academy each fall. The number of midshipmen enrolled per class drops to around 1200 during the sophomore year and by senior year the enrollment slumps to between 800-900. 
Enlistment decline can be attributed to a wide variety of things; the rigorous physical fitness schedule, the cumbersome academic load (an aver­age of 19 hours per student), or the extensive obligations. · 
Registration numbers also fall after the sophomore year when die original enlistment agreement terminates. Beginning with the junior year, the student becomes obligated to the Navy for seven years (two as a student, and five years after graduation). 
The academic year begins with mid-August as the students return from summer break and assignments on various naval bases. Each student is required to wear his or her (there are 300 women enlisted) uniform to classes, which begin at 8 a.m. Four morning classes are followed by a lunch break and an additional two 

Ted Dumbauld 
classes. 
Heavy emphasis is placed on an engineering education at the Academy, for nearly two-thirds of every class is enrolled in that field of study. 
Students graduate from Annapolis with the rank of ensign and are employed by the Navy for five years. Because of the quality of education received at the academy, graduates who fulfill the enlistment term usually have no difficulties with job place­ment. , 

''Freshman year at any college is a big adjustment, but we not only must make the academic change, we make the change from civilian life to military life,'' says Midshipman linebacker Ted Dumbauld. 
Upper classmen practice their lea­dership style on the freshmen. First year students are the most restricted of those re~istered at the academy. Emphasis 1s placed in orientation on the strict c~mduct r;ules, such as the respect pa1d to upperclassmen and officers by using the salutations of sir and ma'am along with other military courtesies. 
The football team from Navy must add some additional duties to the extensive ones already required. Daily meetings and afternoon practices are mandatory for each member of the Midshipmen's team. 
Some advantages come with mem­bership on the Naval footb::u squad. Players are exempt from the twice­weekly marching sessions that all other students must participate in. Early registration is provided for the team, allowing players' class times to fit the necessary schedule. During meals the team Is also given reserved tables alon$ with special menus. 
"Everybody likes a winner so every­one is pretty much behind us this year,'' offers Dumbauld, a junior from Troy, Ohio. 
This year's team sports a 6-1 record in independent competition with its first loss coming last week at the hands ofthe Panthers ofPittsburgh. Football is the sport of primary interest at Navy, abd all the students are required to attend all home games, in uniform. 
The Midshipmen, who tallied a 7-0 record going into last year's Notre Dame-Navy clash in Cleveland, will be travelling to South Bend in poor shape depth-wise. The team has lost the talents oftailbacks Mike Scherlock and Steve Callahan, who are both out with injuries. Injuries were also sustained by both defensive tackles and the rover in the battle with Pittsburgh. 
Despite the injury-ridden team, Dumbauld insists Navy will be ready for the Irish squad. 
"We're pretty confident, based on our success in the past and the veteran team which consists mainly of exper­ienced juniors and seniors," com­ments Dumbauld. "We're not awed by Notre Dame, but you have to admit Notre Dame is always a powerhouse and we will have to play well to win.'' 
After Saturday's meeting, the Navy 
squad will head back to Annapolis with Igames against Syracuse and Georgia Tech on the itinerary along with the .traditional Army-Navy feud, sched­\uled for December 1 at Philadelphia. 

The Irish Extra Friday, November 2, 1979-page 14 
Thornton leads defense


Irish -Middies 
ANNAPOUS, Md.--Navy defensive the game.'' He was named to the
Date: November 3, 1979 

end Charlie Thornton continues to Eastern College Athletic Conference
Site: Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) 
make the big /lays for the Mid defense All-East Weekly team for his perfor-
Time: 1:30 p.m. EST 

this year an he is doing it not only mance against the Panthers.
Radio: WSND, AM-64, with Mark Jachec and Tom Englert {cam~us only~ Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network, with AI Wester and at Sher dan 
despite an overall lack of size--he's Despite his quickness and reputa-
Television: WNDU-TV, Ch. 16, with Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers 
only six-foot-one and 209 pounds--but tion for making the big play, Thornton
Sarles: Notre Dame 42, Navy 9, one tie Last Meeting: November 4, 1978 --Notre Dame 27, Navy 7 
also despite op_posing teams being is far from satisfied wah his perfor-
Ranklngs: Notre Dame 13th, Navy unranked (Associated Press) 
more aware of his capabilities. mance. "Every time I look at the 

''I felt there were times this year I 
films, I see where I need to imfrove,"haven't played uJI to my abilities," he noted. "I still need to wor on my says thts frien ly senior from pass drops and I want to do better
Notre Dame 
Navy 

Compton, Califorma. Yet, he still with the pass rush. I notice some of 
leads the Midshipmen defense in big these things every week--it is moreDan Devine George Welsh plays, including 10 tackles for losses of aptarent on the pass rush.''
Head Coach Head Coach 62 yards this year. In addition he has hornton does not believe his play42-12-0 (5th year) 39-35-0 (7th year) caused three fumbles and has one has been affected by opposin~ block-


fumble recovery, and his 54 tackles in ers bigger than he, which is t 

e case
OFFENSEOFFENSE 

seven games rank only behind line-most of the time. "When it's 
POS. PLAYER HT. WT. CL. backers Mike Kronzer and Tom Paulk. one-on-one, bigger guys don't bother TE Dean Masztak 6-4 220 So. 
PDS. PLAYER HT. WT. CL. 

TE Curtis Gainer 6-2 208 Jr. He's havin~ the kind of a year we me," he says. "But I think I've been
LT John Taylor 6·5 256 Sr.
LT Rob Martinovich 6-5 260 Sr. 

LG Frank McCallister 6-3 260 So. expected of htm," say Coach Geor~e getting double-teamed at times this
LG Ted Horansky 6-3 250 Sr. 

c Rick Bolt 6-5 245 Sr. Welsh. "He's still making the btg
c John Scully 6-4 245 Sr. 

kear and that poses a droblem. Teams 
RG Tom Feldman 6-4 249 Sr. play. He's been effective farticularly now who I am an are treparingRT Tim Foley 6-5 265 Sr. 
RG Tim Huffman 6-5 265 Jr. 
RT Jerome Barker 6-4 241 Sr. 

against the run because o his quick-better to stop me. I guess t at might
TE Carl Hendershot 6-4 218 Sr.
SE Tony Hunter 6-5 210 Fr. 

OB Bob Powers 5-11 207 Sr. ness.'' have sorriethmg to do with my feelings 
QB Rusty Lisch 6-4 210 Sr. 
HB Vagas Ferguson 6-1 194 Sr. 

TB Duane Flowers 6-0 187 So. Yet, Thornton himself is not so sure at times I am not doing as well as I FB John Sweeney 6-3 211 Fr. 
FB Larry Kla'f. inski 5-9 220 Sr. he has performed u~ to expectations. think I should." FL Pete Holohan 6-4 215 Jr. 
FL Troy Mitchell 6-2 166 Fr. 

p ''Being an honora le mention All-Thornton became a starter for the
p 
Lex Lauletta 6-1 202 Jr.
Dick Boushka 6-4 190 Jr. 

American last year, I think the coaches Mids midway through the 1977 season
PK Steve Fehr 184 So.
PK Chuck Male 5-11 180 Sr. 

expected a little more out of me,'' he and quickly displayed his propensity
DEFENSE 

DEFENSE explains. "I don't really feel any for making big plays. As a regular on LE John Hankerd 6-4 241 Jr. 
LE Reggie Trass 6-1 236 Sr. pressure except from myself. last year's nationally-ranked Mid de-
LT Chris Garner 6-4 266 So.
LT Pat Kramer 6-4 245 So. 

''After some of the games this Jcear, fensive unit, he was second in tackles
"RT Tom Burke 6-2 239 Sr.
RT Kevin Griffith 6•3 230 So. 

RE l:harlle Thornton 6-1 209 Sr. I had the feeling I wasn't oing with 81 and led ihe squad in tackles for 
RE Joe Gramke 6-4 234 So. 
LLB Mike Whittington 6-2 219 Sr. 

LLB Tom Paulk 6-3 212 Sr. enough even though I was trying losses with 11 for 76 yards. He also MLB Bob Crable 6-3 220 So. 
MG Terry Huxel 6-0 231 Jr. hard," he continues. "I was doing my contributed three passes broken up,ALB Bobby Leopold 6-2 217 Sr. 
6-1 219 Jr.

ALB Mike Krenzer job but it dido' t seem like it was one interception, two fumble recover-
L~B Charles Zingler 5-11 180 Sr.
LCB Dave Waymer 6-3 188 Sr. 

RCB Charles Meyers 6-Q 201 Sr. enough." ies and one caused fumble in 1978.
RCB John Krlmm 6-1 183 So. 
ss Steve Cichy 6-3 215 So. 

ss Fred Reitzel 6-3 206 Jr. Thornton had perhaps his best ~arne At the rate he is going this fall and FS Tom Gibbons 6-1 185 Jr. 
FS Chris Boblit 6-1 185 Jr. of this season agamst Pitt ast despite the attention he is attractin~ Saturday when he came up with 14 from opposing teams, he shoul tackles, three of which resulted in 

sudass his big fflay total of last year
IRISH EXTRA SUPPLEMENT STAFF 
losses of 24 yards, and caused a an tace himse f in line for post-sea-
Mark Perry, Editor fumble. son onors. That's a long way from "I felt I played well that day," he says. the 180-pound Plebe he was four years 
Paul Mullaney, Assistant Editor and Design Layout "I thou~ht last week I wanted a better ago when he had to beK to come out for 
Michael Ortman and John Smith, Special Assistance pass rus and I got it. But still, we lost football at the Naval cademy. 


ACC games highlight this week's look into crystal football 






Paul MullaneyMark Parry 

Beth Huffman Frank LaGrotta Craig Chval Brian B~lane Michael Ortman Paul Stauder S~orts Editor Asst. Sports Editor 
Women's Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports riter Sports Writer WSND Sports Director 9-26, .694 56-29, .659 
59-26, .694 58-27, .682 57-28, .671 56-29, .659 55-30..647 57-28, .671 
Wake Forest Wake Forest Clemson Wake Forest Wake Forest Wake Forest Clemson Clemson Clemson 
at Clemson by3 by 2 by1 by3 by2 by10 by5 by7 
North Carolina North Carolina North Carolina North Carolina Maryland North Carolina Maryland Maryland Maryland at Maryland by6 by3 by3 by7 by7 by 4 by7 by10 
North Carolina State South Carolina South Carolina South Carolina South Carolina South Carolina North Carolina State North Carolina State North Carolina State at South Carolina by 3 by 2 by 7 by7 by8 by7 by9 by12 
Nebraska Nebraska Missouri Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska 
at Missouri by 5 by 1 by10 by10 by 10 by10 by9 by 16 
Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma 
at Oklahoma State by 14 by17 by 14 by 10 by 13 by7 by 10 by 20 
Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State 
at Illinois by 10 by7 by 18 by13 by6 by16 by 10 by34 
Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Iowa Purdue Purdue Purdue 
at Iowa by3 by7 by 7 by 10 by4" by12 by6 by3 
Wisconsin Mlchl9an Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michi~an Michigan Michigan 
at Michigan by by 13 by 16 by 10 by 11 by by 11 by 16 
Tulane Tulane Tulane Tulane Tulane Tulane Tulane Tulane Boston College at Boston College by 14 by 10 by3 by3 by4 by5 by5 by4 
Arizona Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal at Southern Cal by21 by 19 by20 by13 by17 by21 by12 by 17 
Arizona State Arisona State Arizona State Stanford Stanford Stanford Stanford Stanford Arizona State at Stanford Oy3 by1 by9 by7 by5 by4 by3 by 1 
Washington Washington Washington Washington Washin8'on Washington Washington California Washin~ton at California Oy7 by4 by6 by 1 by1 by6 by2 by 1 
Rut;:er• Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee at ennessee by10 by14 by9 by17 by24 by14 by 12 by3 
Texas Tech Texas Texas Texas Texas Texas Texas Texas Texas 
at TeXIS by13 by11 by10 by7 by 12 by14 by11 by4 
Syracusa Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh by 17 by6 by 12 by 10 by6 by6 by9 by15 
Southern Methodist TexasA&M TexasA&M Southern Methodist TexasA&M TexasA&M TexasA&M TexasA&M TexasA&M at Texas A&M by6 by19 by3 by3 by13 Oy7 by7 by3 
Navy Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame at Notra Dame by 13 by23 by7 by27 by21 by10 by19 by32 
--------~ •t 
The Observer Friday, November 2,-'1979-page 15 

November 2nd 49th Anfl~ersacy of Coronation Day 
Get up, Stand up 
You can fool some of the people Stand up for your rights some ofthe time, Don't give up the fight but you can 't fool all ofthe people Life is OUR right all of the time 
Men and people will fight you down, Fighting soldiers rise and take your stands again 

but when you see 
Jah Light 

Let me tell you 
if you're not wrong, then everything is all right No bullet can stop us now, we will neither beg nor bow neither can be bought nor sold 
We know· and understand almighty 
JAH 
(GOD) Is a Living Man 
Make sure your hands 
and heart are clean, 
-so you can rally 
around the 
Red, 

Gold and Green 



Hail to ALL RAST AF ARI throughout the w·hole universe THE TRUTH SHALL NEVER DIE KING OF I(INGS, LORD OR LORDS THE CONQUERING LION OF THE 
TRIBE OF JUDAH paid for by Lee's Barbecue 

Books Are A Great Gift Idea Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the 
I 


·,.Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
BEFORE ROCKNE AT NOTRE THE OFNOTREDAME By Chet Grant (An DAME 1980 CALENDAR ByInside look at Notre Dame Philip C. Thompson $5.95. AFootball before Rockne), $9.95. 
lasting gift (the 12 prints can be framed). 

THE FIGHTING IRISH ByTHE UNIVERSI1Y OF NOTRE William Gildea And Christo­DAME, A PORTRAIT OF ITS pher]ennison, regularly$12.95, 
HISTORY & CAMPUS By now on SPECIAL $5.98. Dram­Professor Thomas Schlereth (A atic stories of N.D.'s Football 
Beautifully Illustrated History of Notre Dame(, Hardbound History through the !Years . 
Includes a gallery of rare and$25.00, Paperback $7.95. 
exclusive photos. 

~ 
---~--~-­
--·---------~---~--~-­
.----------------------~----~.----------.---~---------­
; Friday, November 2; 1979 -page 16 lETTERS TO A LONELY GOD A Kite Flies in November Rev. Robert Griffin Elias was nine years old. He that will replace the lie he thinks WL Him, that's all; they signify, at "It was dead all right," I said. "It was a hard-boiled young skeptic, told him about Grandpa's visiting the special time, His presence. But God was beginning to smell.''having rejected Santa Claus, the angels.'' is Himself, unique, alone, beyond "Do you think it went to heaven?"Easter Bunny, and the Tooth Fairy as "Maybe we should find him a description. I should speak of Him he asked. nonsense, before he had reached the foxhole,'' I said. ''They say there are directly, not saying he IS like some­"Maybe," I said. "Anyway, God age of five. At six, he had decided no atheists in foxholes." thing else, such as a mover of kites, will take care of it."that playing Christopher Robin to a "Would you talk to him," she said, though imagination might picture "How do you know," he said. teddy bear was · silly, and he had "before he corrupts the First Com­Him using the constellations of the ''Because He said He would,'' Iincinerated the unfortunate beastie in munion class with his doubts?" Milky Way as His kite tail, if He replied. "He said He watches when the family furnace with the grim "Bring him over," I said. "We'll wanted to. a bird falls, and I believe Him."relish of a Grand Inquisitor punishing That night, I talked to Elias'sfly kites. " "Are you just making that up?" heheretics. mother. "I didn't know how toSo, on a perfect afternoon in said. "Did you hear Him say it?"At nine, he still hadn't made his mention God to him," I said. "I can'tOctober, Elias and I stood in the "Of course not," I answered, "butFirst Holy Communion, because he get a kite as high as a housetop; howmiddle of a field holding onto kite it's the kind of thing God would say.''couldn't believe in Holy Communion. can I promise him kingdoms on thestnngs, waiting for the wmd to blow "I don't believe you," he said.His words to the Sister preparing the other side of the stars?''so that I could explain how God's Here it was, finally: the naked doubt, children for their sacramental debut It seems silly to be embarrassed tocoming is like the wind: A great, young and unsure of itself, which sent a shudder through the whole mention God to a child; but I amstrong force that has no hands, no could grow to become the despair ofschool, lay teachers as well as nuns. always devastated by a youngster'sfeet, no face that we can see; yet a an adult."It's make-believe," he said. "God skepticism. Eating Christ's Body,kite, a leaf, or an old woman's hat can ''I'm sorry you don't believe me," Iis a game of let's pretend." The and drinking His Blood, seems, tobe lifted up,.:n its invisible arms and said. "Do you think I'm lying?"Sister had immediately called Elias's some children, like a doubtful exper­moved across the sky as though there "I don't believe," he said slowly,mother, suggesting the the boy was ience; and it hurts me to see a tykewere the strength of wild horses "that God said anything." either atheist or agnostic, she turn away from the Lord's Supperpushing it, and the power of eagles' "Look," I said, "there's a kitecouldn't decide which, not being a with tears of fright.wings pulling it. The catechesis flying." High on the shoulder of thetheologian. "At any rate," she said With Elias, I decided to wait without might have worked if the wind had November wind, a box kite rode thesympathetically, "he does not have pushing. I wasn't sure I could winonly cooperated, and if someone sky. Leaves skipped along the the faith needed for the reception of arguments with him, anyway, sincebesides me had been flying the kite. ground, hesitating at the lake's edge, the Eucharist. He cannot make First logic ~as on his side, though love was Out kite hugged the ground as finally spilling into the water, where Communion with the rest of the though it wanted to root itself like on mwe. k I h'l the wetness took the skirmish out ofFmally one day wee s ater, w 1 e class.'' !Chrysanthemums. Eliam said softly, their frisking. In the midst ofwe were walking, we found a deadHis mother, in tears, called me. "It's not flying." I wanted to snarl: autumn, as the year was approachingbird by the lake. Elias wanted to bury"Elias should have made his Com­"Of course it's not flying. My kites its burial, Elias stood there, a figureit, but we had nothing to dig a gravemunion two years ago," she said, never fly. Whatever made you think I of doubt, refusin~ to believe that God with. "Let's get a big spoon," I said. "but he had difficulty in accepting could fly a kite?" promised anythmg could 'be saved"We'll come back, and wrap the bird things. We decided to wait until he Instead, I placed myself in the ranks from death.in leaves, then bury it."was older, when he could understand of the lovable failures: "Charlie ''Ask Him,'' I said. He looked at meWhen we came back, the bird wasmore.'' Brown also had days like this," I as though he couldn't understandgone. "What happened to it?" Elias''Maybe he understands too said. what I was saying.asked.much," I said. "He has the doubts of The next symbol I thought of using "Ask· Him yourself if He''Either someone else has burieda twenty year old." to explain mysteries was the symbol promised His care," I said. If theit," I said, "ot some animal has"We've never lied to him about of fire. I thought: we could stand in wind had time to play with the trees, I carried it off."anything," she said, "not since the this field, lightin~ matches. We prayed, then the Holy Spirit would''What would an animal do with it?''day we told him the stork dumps could light candles In the chapel. But have time to bother with Elias's soul. he said, dreading, I think, to hear.babies into the cabbage patch, and he the candle is not God; the match is In all birth, a moment comes when''Sometime, larger animals live offdidn't believe us. When we told him not God; · God is not fire, water, the new-born has to learn to breathsmall creatures,' I said. "That's theGrandpa had died and gone to wind, earth, or sky. He is not bread, for itself. God was waiting to breatheway nature has to be." · heaven, he didn't believe in heaven. wine, oil, words, or sacrament or in Elias, closer to him than the"Maybe," he said, "it wasn't evenHe seems to be waiting for the truth liturg.y. These things b~ar witness, to November air. dead?"  
What-s All This Then ~~ Gerard Curtin outrageous cult film comes to SouthCINEMA--ON CAMPUS cule Duchy of Grand Fenwick is Meteor at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, and Bend. Starring Tim Curry, with aThe Maltese Falcon at 7:30 p.m. on bankrupt, so the minister of war 9:30. Town and Country I. When the special dinner appearance by singer Monday, November 5. Washington decides to declare war on the U.S., be Earth is threatened by a series of Meatloaf.Hall. After the death of his partner, defeated, and apply for aid under the meteorites, scientists from Britain PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS private eye Sam Spade is enlisted in a Marshall Plan. With Peter Sellers join forces with teams from the CONCERT ... Friday, November 2, atsearch for a pnceless statuette. and Jean Se_~f'!'g .. United States and Russia in order to B:15, Washington Hall. The famedStarring Humphrey Bogart, Mary meet the world wide emergency. Notre Dame Glee Club gives its firstAstor, and Peter Lorre. Starring Henry Fond~. on-campus performance. Concert .. Casino Royale at 7:00 and 9:30 and When A Stranger Calls at 1:30, 3:30, Monday, November 5 at B: 15, Library12:00 on Tuesday, November 6 in the 5:30, 7:30, and 9:30. River Park Auditorium. Cellist KarenEn~ineering Auditorium. In this spy Theater. A horror film that is still Burans~a_:;yerforms.thnller/comedy overpopulated by an trying to tell us what every babyall-star cast, Sir James Bond is called sitter fears most (a herd of full­upon by allied spy forces to fight the grown, un-housebroken Saint power of SMERSH. Starring Woody Bernards?). ...Senior Bar Allen, Deborah Kerr, David Niven, Apocalypse Now at 1:30, 4:20, 7:10,Peter Sellers, and Orson Welles. and 10:00. Scottsdale Theater. The [continued from page 17]The Magic C.lmsttan at 7, 9, 11, on. long-awaited film produced and di­Thu~sd~y, November B. Engineering our anemic selves, aching from arected by Francis Ford Coppola,Auditonum. An eccentric millionaire reality reeking of too much boredomwhich deals with a man trapped(played by Peter Sellers) sponds his and indulgence, too many saccharine between civilization and savageryfortune in efforts to deflate those who smiles?during the Viet Nam era. Starring pursue money or power. Also Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall, and And why is Senior Bar so small? starring Ringo Starr and with John Martin Sheen. ("Because that's how it was built,Cleese. 10 at 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, and 9:45. you dummy.") The Fallen Id_ol at 7:30 on Thursday, University Park I. An adult romantic I never d1d get my SB card. But November B m Washington Hall. In comedy centering on the affair a that's the way it goes with mobs.CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS this cleverly made film, an ambas­Holl~ood composer has with a Having escaped the environs rela­" ...and justice For All at 7:00 andsador's young son nearly inciminates beauuful star. Starring Dudley tively unscathed {three cracked ver­9:30. Forum Theater I. A criminalhis friend the butler in the death of Moore, Julie Andrews, and introdu­tebrae, a dislodged elbow, onelawyer, played by AI Pacino, fightshis shrewish wife. Part of the cing Bo Derek.f stubbed toe and a chipped tooth), Iagamst the system. ND/SMC film series. The Onion Field at 1:45, 4:25, 7:05, felt that the evening was bothThe Legacy, in Forum Theater II400 Blows at 7 and 9:00 p.m. in the and 9:30. University Park II. The enjoyable and enlightemn~. It was as(times unavailable). A group ofLibrary Auditorium. On Thursday, true story of the kidnapping of two glonous as it was moromc. A veryp~ople gather. together in eerie andNovember B. A sympathetic study o1: Los Angeles policemen and the natural paradox. I learned a bit about frtghtemng crrcumstances, one of ayoung delinquent, directed by murder of one of them by the the sociOlogy of mobs, a lot aboutwhom will receive a devilish legacy ofFrancois Truffaut. With Albert criminals. With John Savage and Notre Dame, and something aboutriches, power, and immortality.Remy. James Woods. myself.Starring Katherine Ross, Sam Elliot, Wizards at 12:00, University Park I. I learned that I can only bear soThe Mouse That Roared at 7, 9, and and Roger Daltry of the Who. The Rocky HoTTOr Picture Show at much fun. And fun, after all, is whatLtfe ofBrian at 7:40 and 9:40. Forum11 «;>n ~ednesday,. November .7: 12:00, University Park II. The the good life is all about. Right)Theater III.  

• 

The Observer Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 17 

Shakespeare At Stratford 
Kathy Connelly 
On Thursday, October 24, five cars of Notre Dame students started out from the Main Circle on a trip that would take them to a quaint little tourist town. Sounds typical for October break, right? Well, the trip was anything but typical or conven­tional. 
First of all, we were not heading South .. we went far North -to Canada. 
Second, this little tourist town is called Stratford, not Nashville, or Amity. 
Third, we traveled seven hours not to drink, carouse, or bask in the sun, but rather to attend performances of 
Othello, Henry the Fourth, Parts I. andII., Love's Labour Lost and, for a lucky few, King Lear starring Peter Ustinov. · 

Alan Scaife as Othe{lo 

The Shakespeare Festival in the town of Stratford, Ontario in Canada begins in early summer and contin­ues through aurumo. Like a town whose economy may be based on the run of the salmon or smelt, the 
suo season: the deer season, Stratford swells in population during their theatre season and gears a large part of its economy for tourist trade. 
Blessedly absent were plastic busts ofWilliam in various pastels, authen­tic rapiers, just like the kind Romeo used to finish Paris, and "My parents went to Stratford and all they brought me was the crummy T-Shirt" t-shirts. 
No hype. Their "Festival City" is 
·1Editor;s NO'te: This second in a two.patt s.·~ex·1esv1 on the USC weekend. 
''Are you genuitielactor? A · . · 
which is ···· perhaps you 41'1!·11>J.Iff':.<~.t'll' a ·cnJ>'ll actor.'' 
A per~onat. r¢ason. for Senior Bar was to se<:ute · card, which 1had rtOt ,..,.,..,,,;,M·10 1rne o 
beginning of the semester, One~ t~e doors opened at 9 p.m., l tri~g tracking down the manager, an:<{ was told "he'd be with me in a.few moments, once he gets a breather/' The enormous crush of people then comm<:nn~d, conjuring up images ?f . Genghts Khan's feroclous hordes ·10 Asia. Standing by the railing on tbe steps lea<;liog upstairs, l waited for his imminent arrival. ·· 
When ! left three hours later, .$~ complai:;.ant multitudes were ... still pouring in, with no sign ofsubsiaing, . 
The crush was incredible, .like C<ltde in boxcars on theirway to slaughter. Everyone. and his mother . ·. · ·.•. •..... · •.· .·
be where 1t was ~ n . . . ......·.. ... Bar. The onl] oblem was SB was never 
not the typical American tourist trap. 
The ·Stratford Festival was estab­
lished by Tyrone Gutherie in 1953, 
and the first performances took place 
in a 1,500 seat canvas tent. Sir Alec 
Guiness starred in the opening 
performance of Richard III. In 195 7, 

the Festival Theatre, pillared and porticoed, was designed for Stratford by Robert Fairfield. Stratford Shakespearean productions have been called the best in the Western Hemisphere, and second only to performances on London stages. r 
After all that hype, I would like to give favorable reports about all of the performances that we saw. However, one of the plays was what I can only label ''weak.'' Othello was weak, and lacking dimension. Perhaps it was because the actors had to play to a house filled with high school srudents who tittered any time Othello and Desdemona touched hands, but the actors could not seem to peel the dialogue from the pages. They failed to make the characters come alive for the audience and consequently the performance was rather flat. 
Alan Scarfe as Othello was simply miscast. The role calls for someone who can deftly depict a gradual shift from noble and prudent temperament to one of passion and irrationality. Scarfe could roar like an outraged lion, and speak in sensuously cares­sing tones to Desdemona, but he often garbled his lines and the West Indies accent made some phrases awkward and incoherent. It was only when Scarfe was required to play the raging Mpor, as opposed to the self-possessed commander, that he faltered. At the outset of the play and at the very finish when he ceases 
to bellow, Scarfe does admrrably well. 
As a foil for the complex character of Othello, Nicholas Pennell as Iago skillfully balanced the dynamic be­tween the two main characters. He was appropriately insidious, yet not slinking; unctious but not overly so. Perhaps the greatest testament to his portrayal of the vengeful side who convinces Othello that the Moor's faithful wife has slept with another man, Pennell's character never de 
degenerates into a Dastardly Dick role, but is always well-executed and believable. 
The other players took a poor ocue from Scarfe and were likewise drab. The shining jewel of the cast was, in my opinion, Barbara Budd, who played Emilia, Iago's wife. Por­trayed as a crafty, but compassionate attendant to Desdamona, Emilia is a role that Budd explored to its most extreme limits, lending it a complex­ity that the role has probably rarely evinced. 
The Henry plays were considerably more polished than Othello. Part I was presented in the afternoon, Part II, followed that evening. This scheduling provided a very effective continuity. The audience was able to watch Douglas Rains' Henry IV change from a vital, sharp-witted fighter to a feeble, diseased old man. Most strikingly; the same change occurred in the character Falstaff, Prince Hal's lowlife companion. In fact, Lewis Gordon gave Falstaff greatest depth throughout the two history flays. He was repulsive and immora one moment, yet he was vulnerable and poignantly played the next. That characterization throws the otherwise excellent performance ofRichard Monette as Pnnce Hal into another light. He was adequate. Like Scarfe in Othello, his lines were often delivered lifelessly, but Monette excelled where Scarfe bun­gled in that he used his body well. He developed a complete person for the Prince, includin~ peculiar ges­tures, facial expressiOns and inflec­tions, and he did so very convin­cingly. 
Hotspur Percr., portrayed by Stephen Russel , displayed great versatility in his depletion of the hot-blooded rebel. Russell also was Cassio, Othello's lieutenant, and played the character as a sensitive rogue ena.moured of Desdamona. 
The characters are vastly different, 
but Russell handled the transitton 
with ease. 
The last play that the group saw was Love's Labour Lost, a comedy by the Stratford master. The play is deftly composed to entertain, and then to teach, for at the end of the play, the heroine's father dies, and the news of his death causes the tone to change from light and airy to pensive and starkly realistic. 
Martha Henry as the Princess of France was regal, yet believable in her role as a woman smitten with an infatuation. Alan Scarfe appears again as a ruler, as in Othello. This time he is King Ferdinand of Spain. His performance was, again, wood­en, but it did not come off as badly, for the man he portrayed was more likely to be economi.cal with gesrures and general movement. Again, his. voice caprured many difficult inflec­tions, but there is more to acting than the recitation of lines. 
The other two romantically paired characters gave good performances, but it was the text itself that was entertaining rather than the particu­lar interpretations of the cast. 
Richard McMillan as Costard the clown excelled here as he did as the serving man Francis in the Second Part of Henry IV. The talented actor was able to deliver the most bawdy lines without resorting to caricatured !ears, nudges, nods or winks. He was a clown, but a sharp, rascally clown. 
When the lights on stage went out, and the house lights went up, I felt as though I, like the three couples of Love 's Labour Lost, was being rous­ted out of an idyllic state. Leaving the theatre; the make-believe, I realized that when I got into the car I would be heading back to papers, tests, turmoil...and then I saw snow crusted on the roof and hood of the car parked behind ours. When they caught me three blocks later and convinced me to stop running, I got in the car and grudgingly acknowledged that the world cannot be a stage all the time, took out my text and started to read for class ..... 
... ~X>Ul1~··.. ·~~itV'¢ ~~w~~n 

------~----------------------~--------~----·. 
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 18 
WASHINGTON (AP) Mamie Eisenhower will be buried tomorrow beside her beloved Ike, the husband of more than a half-century with 
whom she shared a glitterin~ military career and the presi­dency. 
To the nation, she was 
Mamie 
Eisenhower "Mamie," a shy, quiet woman who was happy to be know simply as the wife of Dwight D. Eisenhower, a five-star general 

to rest near 
and the country's 34th presi­dent. "I miss this man of mine; he 
was my life," she would tell interviewers after Eisenhower's death in 1969 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. They had been married nearly 53 years. 
President Carter said she was 

husband 
a warm and gracious first lady who ''carried out her public and private duties, desptte a life­time of fragile health, in a way that won her a special place in the heart of Americans and of people all over the world." 
After 10 years of living alone on the Ei~enhower farm at the edge of the Civil War battle in Gettysburg, Pa., Mrs. Eisen­hower suffered a stroke Sept. 25 and was paralyzed on her right side. 
She had been undergoing physical therapy since then at Walter Reed. 
Her sister, Frances Doud Moore, was the last family member to visit with her, leaving the hospital in early evening Wednesday. 
"Mamie was in good spirits, talking about leavin~ the hospi­tal and going home, ' said Mrs. Moore's son, Michael Gill. "She kissed my mother good night and said 'I'll see you tomorrow.' " 
A nurse and a Secret Service agent were in attendance when Mrs. Eisenhower died, Gill said. The death, at 1:35 a.m. EST yesterday, was attributed to heart failure. 
Mrs. Eisenhower would have been 83 on Nov. 14. 
As Eisenhower planned, she will be buried tomorrow beside him in the ''Place of Medita­tion," a small chapel with richly colored windows and Travertine marble wall panels situated just across from Eisen­hower's boyhood home at Abi­lene, Kan. Both are on the grounds of the Eisenhower Center at Abilene. packing was left to him. Ten 
A military honor guard will years later I found a coffee pot 
escort Mrs. Eisenhower's coffin Ike and some of the boys from 
to the plane at Andrews Air camp had packed and it still had 
Force Base, Md., and another the grounds in it." 
will accompany it from the After Eisenhower's death she 
airport at Salina, Kan., to the endured in silence the reports 
service in the chapel at 2:30 that Ike had a torrid romance 
p.m. with Lt. Kay Summersby, his 
Only family members and wartime driver, and that he 
close friends have been invited once thought to divorce Mamie 
to the funeral. to marry the young British 
A memorial service will be woman. 
held Monday at 10 a.m. EST at John Eisenhower called the 
the Ft. Meyer post chapel in divorce shory an "egregious 
Arlington, Va., a Washmgton falsehood" and wrote in the 
suburb. preface to a book, Letters to 
Besides her sister, Mrs. Ei-Mamie, that "there is no 
senhower leaves her son, John, evidence that divorce ever seri­
his wife, their four children and ously crossed Dad's mind, even 
four granddaughters. The Ei-in the loneliest moments across 
senhowers had another son, the Atlantic." 
Doud Dwight, who died of A series of illnesses brought 
scarlet fever at age 3. Mrs. Eisenhowere often to Wal-
Mamie was 18 when whe met ter Reed, where she held vigil 
2nd Lt. Eisenhower while she over her husband's bedside 
was visiting friends at Fort Sam during his last 11 months. 
Houston. The young officer, With only her Secret Service 
fresh out ofWest Point, courted contingent for company, Mrs. 
her and gave her an engage-Eisenhower tried last winter to 
ment ring that was a full-sized move into Army Distaff Hall, a 
copy of Ike's class ring, arne-home for Army widows in 
thyst set in gold. Washington that she helped 
They were married July 1, .. found. But there was no room 
1916, when Mamie was not yet in the 300-capacity residence 
20 and began following her even for one who bore the name 
husband to a variety of duty of one of America's most dis­. posts. She said once that they tinguished soldiers. 
lived in 3 7 houses during their For a short time she lived in 
married life. Wardman Towers, the Wash­
,' I come home from shopping ington apartment building one afternoon to find Ike stand-where she stayed when Eisen­ing on the porch with the news hower was in Europe, but she that my sister had died. So I went back to Gettysburg. left for Denver immediately,'' ''The walls just kept closing Mamie once recalled. "He was in on me and I didn't like it," transferred to Georgia so the she said. 
These students were involved in tenure committee proceedings last night in Lafortune. [Photo by Rick DohringJ 
Phone company accuses operator 

of selling cut -rate overseas calls 
NEW YORK (AP) -A college ton Square and he would then determined who the switch­switchboard operator is accused place the call to any part of the board operator on duty was and of bilking the telephone com­world, authorities said. we had the telephone company pany of more than $1 million He placed the calls by using a monitor the board." over four years by selling "blue box" to circumvent tele­They movedin last Monday cur-rate overseas calls that phone company billing devices, and arrested Dunlap at work. avoided the billing process. authorities said. Harriet Norris, a spokeswo­
Robert Dunlap, 36, of Man­"It was a classic blue box man for New York Telephone, 
hattan, allegedly. netted scheme,'' said a spokesman for said that after the criminal I $100,000 from the scheme the Manhattan district attor­charges against Dunlap are ~ which emrloyed several per­ney's office. resolved, the company may I sons to sel the cut-rate calls to The "blue box" is an elec­seek restitution from those who I businessmen. tronic device that allows the took advantage of the cut-rate 
New York Telephone Co. said caller to dial toll-free 800 or 555 calls. ~ the average cost of an out-of­exchanges and then keep the Officials said Dunlap had country call is $3 per minute or line open to dial another num­turned over all his records and~ $45 for 15 minutes. Dunlap ber once the original conversa­was "giving his cooperation." 
~ 
allegedly offered the calls for as tion is ended. Dunlap, who lived in Green­~ little as $5 for 15 minutes. It was during a routine check wich Village, was described byI Dunlap, a 10-year employee that telephone company inves­neighbors as a ''bit of a 
I 
at New York University, earned tigators noted that the univer­recluse." A university spokes­I $15,000 a year as a night-shift sity was logging an exceptional man termed him ''a very nice, switchboard operator but drove number of long-distance infor­cooperative fellow.'' 
•~ 
a $25,000 sports car, authorities mation calls that lasted up to an Dunlap was charged with
I 
said. hour. theft of service and possession
I 
Businessmen who used his We have telephone company of burglar tools {the blue box).I service would call Dunlap at the printouts," said an investi~ator He was released without bail ~ NYU switchboard in Washing-for the district attorney. 'We pending a hearing Nov. 26. 
f 
The Observer 
' ' 

The Glee Club traveled to the Northeast coast during break on its Fa/11979 Concert Tour. They visited andperformed concerts _in Greenville Pa., Rochester, N.Y., .Bur~in_gton, Vt., Boston, Mass., Lincroft, N.j., Downzngton, Pa., and Mt. Lebanon Pa. wzth vzszts to N.Y. N.Y., Yale University in New Haven, Conn., and Phtladelphia, Pa. Along the way Father 
Griffin went as chaplain ofthe group [Photo by Rick Dohring] 
Glee Club to P.erform tonight 
After returning from a tour of the northeastern United States, the Glee Club will perform its first campus concert of the year tonight at 8:15p.m. in Wash­ington Hall. Admission is free and all are welcome to attend. 
. Roche 

[continued from page 1] 
dorms and put together a social space improvement shopping hst," Roche says. 
Heppen and student govern­ment are trying to get funds, which Roche admits may be impossible. While success in this area may be doubtful, Roche counts on one sure thing -the continual operation of the Board of Commissioners, de­spite recent controversy sur­rounding the board. 
"Some people in student go­vernment, including myself, have found recent comments that that board cannot work together laughable," Roche says, adding that it is "natural for the board to have disagree­ments , but all decisions are made collectively.'' 
Looking forward to the second half of h1s term, Roche foresees the tenure issue and bookstore price study as major rrojects student government wil tackle. While the bookstore report is not ready, Roche states that he wants facts, not conjectures, when he starts discussing the issue officially. Regarding the tenure issue, Roche says stu­dent government is dealing specifically with the student role in the process -such as teacher evaluations and their feasibility. 
Summing up the first segment of his term, Roche says, ''I'm over the hump now. The groundwork has been laid. We're as excited about the next half as we were about the f1rst, and I hoJ;>e to maintain the same level of mtensity." 

[continued from page 5] 
formed to investigate the Three Mile Island accident. The com­mission focused its major criti­cism on the human factor rather than reactor design flaws. 
''Since there were no direct immediate casualties, they can get away with it,'' he stated, maintaining that if deaths had 
Jenkins to lecture 
"Environmental Law and Na­tional Security'' will be the topic of a lecture giyen by Rear Admiral]ohn Jenkins -deputy judge advocate of the . U.S. Navy, today at 12:15 p.m. m the Law School Lounge. The ad­dress is sponsored by t~e Thomas and Alberta Whtte Center for Law, Government, and Human Rights. 
. SteUJart 
occurr-ed reaction would have been stronger, more far reach­ing and sustained. ''Americans have short memories, they don't maintain intensity," he said. 
Stewart hopes to raise the consciousness level of students here so that they might have an impact upon the political struc­ture when they leave Notre Dame 
Robert Gabriele, also a mem­ber of the organization, would consider the group a success if it could give people educated awareness or viewpoints. "We don't want fl~ing radicals or flaming conservatives," he said. "We would just like to see people develop educated rather than emotional opinions." 
The organization technically falls under the social concerns division of student government. Financially it was launched by funds that were made available by Fr. Hesburgh,Stewart said that funds for future years will depend partly on the success of the organization. 
~---~-------· 
Friday, November 2, I979-page 19 
-
invite aU members and their guests to a 
HALLOWEEN EXTRAVAGANZA 
This afternoon: 3-5 pm with Neighborhood Study Help Kids and then TONIGHT: 9 pm -? Us BIG Kids (ONLY at K of C Hall) 
MASS follow-ed by
supper 


every
FRIDAY at the 
A 



FJShSt~ 

Y'}Ucan



Swallow! 
AD-~-can-eat.fish 
all the time 
All·you-can-eat .uWf bar 
All-you-can-eat frog's legs A~rta~~tr::J on Mondays Open For Lunch -Noon Specials -PlaHers, Sandwiches 
•Homemade Soups, Chowder, Clams, Shrimp, Lobster 
And your favorite cocktail~ 
s2129 I 
U.S. 31 No. 
277-0103 

South Bend FISH OF STROH AMIL Y RESTAURANT 
'I. ... •........ ·-· ..... -•
• l r 

-~-----~-----------~--­
~~-----------------------------------------~---------­
' 
-The Observer Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 20 Study s]b.ows system concern 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The problem'' for the nuclear indus­government, using findings try and could apply to all from a new study, said yester-comm~rcial U.S. reactors. 
day there are concerns the emergency calling systems at some nuclear poer J?lants may not be able to do the1r job. 
The Nuclear Regulatory Com­mission called manufacrurers of a!l of the nation's 70 commer­c1al reactors and nucleaar fuel suppliers to a quickly scheduled mee_ting yesterday t? discuss the Issue brought to hght after studies at the Oak Ridge Na­tiona! Laboratory i':l T~nnesse. 
The new studies tndicate that in a nuclear accident there may be more fuel damage than ~arlier th?ught, thus bringing mt? question wheth_er the reac­tor emergen_cy cooling system-. could do Its Job adequa1tely. 
The emergency system auto­ma~ically st~rts when there is an mterruptlon of normal core coiling ~n a reactor. Under NRC regulations, the emerge1~cy_sys­tern must be capable of hmmng temperatures withing the re­actor to a safety threshold of 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Darrel Eisenhut, acting direc­tor of operating reactors at the NRC, said the new findings posed a "pontentially significan 



[continued from page 24] 
were Notre Dame's top two rebounders a year ago. "We're losing quite a lot of
Learn abOut,the great opportunities 
size inside," notes Phelps.
available.In the areas of: 

"We'll miss them just like weELECTRICAL ENGINEERING did this summer in Yugoslavia. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING We'll start a smaller team." INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING Phelps will move junior Orlan­
do Woolridge into the center
COMPUTER SCIENCES 

position from his starting for­ward slot ofa year ago. The six


SIGN UP TODAYI 
four, nine-inch jumping jack Motorola recruiters will be Interviewing could make the 1979-80 club the 
fastest in the school's history. 
on campus 

"But remember, to be quick you've got to have the ball,"November 9 say Phelps. "You can't run if 
you can't rebound. 
''Orlando has got to become a physical player. We all know what great talent he has. But
® MOTOROLA INC. he's a junior now, and the finesse part of his game has got to develop. " 



Ideal gift 

The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education. 
by Rev. Theodore l-Iesburgh 
Notre Dame's president has been in office longer than any other c.urrently active president ofa 
malor American university. Here he reveals the private thoughts and behind-the-scenes 
events which have marked his political, religious, and educational involvements. .­
Available now at 512.95 Book Department 2nd floor The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
But, he added in a telephone interview, it is too earlv to tell how many plants will have to make adjustments. "On most plants I don't think it's going to be a big problem, but a lot of work is going to have to be done to show us that it's not " Eisehut said. ' nuclear critic Ralph Nader said yesterday the new findings "place a grave doubt" on the ability of and atomic power plant s emergentcy cooling sys­tern to adequately cool down the core during an accident. 
The NRC. Staff report, based on findings fr<?m tests conduct­ed at Oark Ridge, focuses on how much metal cladding-­nolds the reactor fuel rods in pla~e--in damaged during an acClent. The more cladding that is damaged, the more the flow of emergency cooling water would be restricted. 
The new findings, accordine-to the NRC rerort, "shows the likelihood o more ruprues, larger ruptures, and greater flow blockages than priviously believed,'' 
Since additional cladding damage in the core woula reduce the flow of the cooling water, the question is whether the emergency cooling sustem can keep plants below the 2,220 degress Fahrenheit safety threshold during an accident. 
NRC officials said various studies on how much cladding would be dammaged during a nuclear-accident at the Three Mile Island plant last March. In that accident, large mounts of fuel cladding was damaged but the emergency coiling sys­tem in time cooled the core down to a managerable temper­ature. 

Committee plans party at Bulla Shed 
The Committee on Academic Progress is having a party tonight! Bulla Shed. 9:00: wine, cheese, etc. All C.A.P. mem­bers, students and faculty, are warmly invited. 
• • • Season 
Woolridge will be joined on per contest at Valley last year. the front line by finesse players "Our freshmen will definitely Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jack­make a postivie contribution son--the top two Irish scorers as this year," smiles Phelps. 
sophomores last seasn. Tri­"But then again you've got the 
pucka netted 14.3 points a unknown--how they'll adjust to game, while Jackson scored at playing, studying, being away an 11.7 clip. Both averaged at college.'' more than four rebounds per Rookie guard John Paxson game. 
should have little trouble ad­
''We have a very talented justing to the collegiate scene-­front line," adds. Phelps at least the basketball part of it. "We'll just have to make up for The All-American from Ketter­our lack of size by executin~ the ing (Ohio) Bishop Alter has fundamentals of reboundmg. been tabbed as one of the 
And we s.hould get a lot of. best. wgb rschool seniors of a leadership out of our guards." year ago. He averaged 23.4 
Notre Dame's backcourt com­points as a senior, and broke all bination, senior co-captains Alter career assist records. Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik, Nevertheless, he'll have plen­will be counted on heavily. ty of company in the Irish 
Branning was one of four backcourt. Along with Bran­double di~it scorers last year ning and Hanzlik, Paxson joins 
while playmg the point. Hanz­veterans Stan Wilxon and Mike lik, Notre Dame's defensive Mitchell, and walk-ons Tim stalwart, stands six-foot, seven Healy, Marc Kelly and Kevin inches tall, and can mix it up Hawkins on the long list of equally well underneath. Notre Dame guards. ''Those two guys have a lot oi Mitchell is currently recuper­experience, and should provide ating from knee sugery. Cartil­great leadership. They've been idge was removed during the regulars for three years, and off-season, and some damaged 
know the ropes.'' ligament was found. However, Phell?s' greatest assest, per­Mitchell is hopeful of being haps, IS his squad's depth. And ready by the regular season with a solid recruiting year, opener on Dec. 1 against Val­there is no doubt his "shuttle" paraiso. He'll start full work­
offense will be in full gear. outs after the Russian contest. On the front line, six-foot "I can't stress the importance ll-inch junior Gilbert Salinas of having a good bench," add should see a lot ofacion. ''He's Phelps. ''For instance, if we 
didn't have Mike Mitchell read­~ot to help us," notes Phelps, 
'not only in the front line, but y for last year's tourmament we now as a junior he can be a big would have lost to Tennessee. help to the younger guys. If "It turned out that Branning he's healthy he's the first and Hanzlik had terrible 
front-line substitution.'' games, and Mitchell was ready. 
The "younger guys" Phelps He stepped in, as a freshmen-­referred to are freshmen Ttm 
but a seasoned one--he did a Andree and Bill Varner. An­great job." 
dree, from Brother Rich in While Phelps like what he sees Birningham, Mich., averaged in the early going, he also 
22.4 points and 14.1 rebounds a stresses that the players have to game his senior year. He like what they see. .. stands six-foot, ten inches, and ''They have to believe in should learn quickly in the themselves, he says. "They pivot. need the· right mental chemis­Varner, from Valley High try--they have to believe like School in New Kensington, Pa., the Pirates did all year. " will see much action as a And who knows?. Maybe 
backup at forward, He scored Chuck Tanner can reco~end oyer 27 points and 15 rebounds to Phelps a good champagne. 

-~-~-----~-------,
------~-~-·-----------....----~-~ 
The Observer -Sports 
• • • NFL 
[continued from page 24] 
might be making playoff plans now. Must win ul?coming rematches vs. Oakland and at San D1ego to retain Super Bowl form of '77. Seattle Seahawks-(4-5)-Gutsy coaching by Jack Patera vs. Atlanta enhanced Kingdonier's playoff chances. Most colorful QB to watch in NFL is Jim Zorn. Former Giant Dan Doornink has proven to be a formidable force for this team that will make a lot of noise before its over. 
DOGS N' SUDS DIVISION .... Let's have a cookout and invite George Allen. He'll supply the Geritol. Tampa Bay Bucs -(7-2)-CoachJohn McKay has instilled a spirit unknown to pro players in this exciting club. No-names like Issac Hagins and QB Doug Williams have made this expansion franchise a playoff team in just three years ... if they can hold on. Washington Redskins-(6-3)-No one bothered to tell this team they should be out raking their yards on Sunday afternoons (average age 29). Inconsistent play (loss at home to Saints) has hurt morale. Former N.D.-er Joe Theismann must find some Montana-Lisch miracles to scalp Steelers Sunday. Philadelphia Eagles-(6-3)-Sound coaching (Dick Vermeil) and having a Polish Rifle at QB has led Eagles to best start in years. Loss on linebacker Bill Bergey showed in Sunday's debacle in Cincinnati. Head-to-head confrontations remain with Cowboys for "all the mustard." 
N.Y. Glants-(4-5)-Seriously folks, Phil Simms is no joke anymore The kid from Moorehead State has led the]erseyites to four straight wins. If he ever can engineer an upset over Dallas this weekend, they may forget Namath in Fun City. 
AGAS (SAGA spelled backwards) BRUNCH DIVISION ... .If you can watch any of these teams without developing ulcers, you may win all the day-old honey dip donuts you can eat. Minnesota Vikings-(4:5)-Probably the best of this lot. Tommy Kramer has stepped in to do an 


[continued from page 24] 
have been a lot worse. As much as we played well in our opener against Illinois-Chicago Circle, we played poorly against Denver.'' 
Minnesota-Duluth also got swept in its league-openmg series last week "'agai¥1-st ""'" Michigan, 11-6 and 6-4. The Bulldogs of coach Gus Hendrickson are 0-3 overall, having lost to the United States Olympic; team, 4-0. Minnesota­Duluth lost five lettermen from last year's 18-10-4, but were hurt by the loss of center Mark Pavelich to the Olympics. 
''Winning on the road in the WCHA is always tough," says Smith, "and Duluth most defin­itely will make our first road test this year a tough one. It will be a relief not having to go against Curt Gile (graduated defenseman) -he was the premier defenseman in the league while at UMD. But Duluth returns some top notch players in Dan Lempe and Stan Palmer and has a balanced club." 
Lempe and Palmer, both seniors, each had four assists last week against Michigan while sophomore Scott Carlston 
FOOTBALL STANDINGS 
South 

W  L  T  PF  PA  
Dillon  4'  0  0  90  0  
Alumni MorrisseyPangborn Fisher Howard  3 3 '1 0 0  1 1 2 3 4  0 0 1 1 0  28 36 6 0 0  3 14 48 23 72  
North  
Stanford Keenan Zahm  3 2 1  0 1 2  0 0 0  ~~ 26  g 20  
Grace  1  2  0  19  16  
Flanner  1  3  0  19  45  
Central  

admirable job at QB but a pouting Chuck Foreman on the bench and a pourous Viking defense that has given up 195 points already may make the winter a tad lon~rer in St. Paul. Chicago Bears-(4-5)-Has Jayne Byrne endorsed Coach Neill Armstrong~~. ran Walter Payton play all 11 offensive ·positions?· A win at home vs. Lions on Sunday wui sllence the ciitics for a while. Green Bay Packers-(3-6)-We can hear you cringing, Bart Starr. This young, upstart club of '78 has been decimated by injuries. Last week's loss to Miami was so boring that Packer fans were watching MASH reruns by halftime. 
GREAT AMERICAN HOT DOG STAND DIVISION ... (NFC West) ... This division is very appealing after a long night at Goose's. 
L.A. Rams-(4-5)-Yes folks. just think. the 
_,j,_1J:~hf!inz Rams. Oh well, their offense thus far has been a bit goofy. Top eight picks in 1980 draft will be Snow White and her seven dwarfs. Two games left with Atlanta, one with New Orleans. New Orleans Saints-(5-4)-Complete collapse of once mights Rams has left Cajun fans in a tizzy. Can good ole' boy Archie Manning do it? Toughest of schedules vs. Denver, Seattle, Oakland and San Diego will tell the story. Atlanta Falcons-(3-6)-Disappointment of '79. A playoff team a year ago that has somehow fallen apart on defense (51 points allowed vs. Oakland, 34 vs. Seattle). Project Turnabout must come soon. 
S.F. 49'ers-(1-8)-Don't they realize we could use Montana and MacAfee much more than they have? And they could throw in 0.]. too for good measure. 
DAIRY QUEEN DIVISION .... Be it due to injuries, poor coaching, or inconsistent play, these franchises have gone the "soft serve" 
route  and  should  be  closed  for  the  season  
November 15th.  
Bengals,  Colts,  Cardinals, jets,  Bzlls,  Lions,  

Chiefs 

turned in two goals and two assists. 
''There is no way we can play like we did last weekend against Denver and hope to fare well in Duluth," says Smith. "We have to/ut last weekend behind us an start fresh." 
Thaf. will be made tougher by ~'vera! injuries to· Irish pli1yers. 
Sophomore Jeff Logan (Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich.) sat out his first two games last week due to a stomach muscle injury he suffered in practice prior to t~e Denver ga~e and, is ques­tionable for th1s week s tnp to Duluth. Left wing Kevin Humphreys (Green Bay, Wis.) and defenseman Don Lucia (Grand Rapids, Minn.) suffered broken noses in the Denver series but should be able to play with protective cages this week. 
Defenseman Scott Cameron (Toronto, Ontario) dislocated his jaw Saturday night versus Denver, and it is a "wait-and­see" matter for him to play against Duluth. 
On the brighter side, goalten­ders Laurion and McNamara showed indications last week that Smith will be able to rely on both for the upcoming year. Laurion made 28 saves Friday night while McNamara, son of 

Pep rally 
In anuopation of this week-end's contest, there will be a pep rally tonight in Stepan Center beginning at 7 p.m. Featured speakers are coach 

• 

-
Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 21 
--~-~-----------~-------~--~



Sunday Masses I 
at I 1
an 


,:;.,=Sacred Heart Church! 
I 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. I 1 9:15a.m. Sunday" Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. I 1 10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Michael McCafferty, C.S.C. I I S d Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. II 12:15 p.m. un ay I 1 7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Michael McCafferty, C. 1 
L-------------~--------------~ 
• • . leers 
former Toronto Maple Leafs goalie Gerry, stood up well in a rough introduction to the WCHA. He was called on for 40 stops, including 17 arid 15 in the final two periods and, according to Smith, ''per­formed outstandingly.'' 
The Irish will have a four­game home stand the following two weeks after the Duluth series, against Michigan and Michigan State. 
THINK SNOW_oPEN HOUSE_~~, y~::
1

Wed. Nov. 7, 1979 6 10 pm 
:...-_10. . .·: ., PI' "~or1o ,.,ott'')~_"··· 131 mQfn St .:. j' _;ll·
,_ d v ElkhQtt. Ind. -. \Ooto ~ptne"\ a" downtown Qctoss from a\\ ect0' fficDonQid's
00 


!'41'. 
1-The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, November 2, 1979 -page 22 
~ ~ 
~ 
Molarity 
i ZIEP ZIE AISICAN ... All 



Pigeons 



I I· 
I I i 
t 
I 
~-­
-

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 24 Moment Goddess of 25 Yaps the hunt 26 Summo11s by 6 Wild enthu· voice siast 28 Italian 13 Hollywood cheese 
girl 30 Burgundy 15 Greed region 16 Antietam 31 Jesus and 
and Bull Mary, e.g. Run 33 Popeyed 18 cat---35 Fades and 
tails dies 19 Friends 38 Pub sharp­20 Bed rail shooting 
21 Fly 39 Tapestry 22 Jewel 40 Pagoda of surface China 23 Turkish 42 Yale official student 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solvetd· 


The SU Social Commission regrets to announce the cancellation of the 




Pat Metheny 


concert Nov. 9 Refunds available at Student Union tix office. 
Plenty of Pure Prairie League tix still available (Nov. 17) $7.00 
by Michael Molinelli 

by Bymes/McOure 

43 Thrashes 17 Destruction 44 Dish to 22 In a heavy spoon up 
manner 45 Lemur 25 Mannerless 47 Opera gem louts 
48 Anatomy 26 Grow urgent 
walls 27 Too 49 Gl Joe 29 Converse 52 Lack of amiably 
funds 30 Abbesses, 53 Swanky in ancient 54 Unitetd Greece 
state 32 Military 55 Vic's girl flight and others sites 
33 Haym -, DOWN Revolution-Leonardo ary War 
2 Angering financier 3 Genus of 34 Three-
auks banketd 4 Novel galley 5 Enjoying 36 Ideal lands 
a bash 37 Make tight 6 Moral tales 38 The DIn 7 Sailor's FDA 
shout 39 Lines up 8 Mr. Turner tor show 9 ·cultural 41 Separated pursuits 43 Freshwater 10 Cultivation fishes of the soil 44 Rough grass 
11 Cold 46 Golf club periods 48 Pung 12 Jai alai 50 Chemical 
baskets 
suffix 13 Barges 51 Palm leaf: 14 Smaller var. 
234-M31 
Interhall 
RAOUETBALL 

The men's and women's tournaments arc both single elimination. Each match consists of .t~ree games (best-of three series). The pa1rmgs for these raquetball tournaments will appear each Thursday in The Observer. It is t~e responsibility of the participant to contach his or her opponent and set up the match in each round. (Phone numbers are listed In parenthesis below.) The results of the raquetball matches must be turned In, In person, to the Interhall office before .noon on the following Wednesday. Failure to report the results to the interhall office will mean disqualification of both participants. Results will only be accepted If the participants have filled out the proper lnterhall insurance forms. After the first week of the tourna· ment, any participant who has not met the insurance requirement will be dropped. 
Due to the design of a single ellminatlon tournament, some participants receive byes. Those participants listed as having a bye should check next Thursday's Observer for their opponent. 
MEN's 

Participants receiving byes: 
Greg Kane Lerose Clande Gerald Miller Brent Buetters Tom Philbia Mike Regali Ken Schmitz Ken Siefert Greg Fisher John Beck John Trimbach Pat Conally . Bob McDonald Jim McGumnis Bob Wegener Dave Esprig Terry Reagan Jim Jenista Gre9 Butler Joe DohopolskiKevm Quinlan Chuck Meakin Manny Sarmina Don Shank John Reust John Onufak Mike Schatz Paul PinepsKevin Gallagher Mike Ref! John Cheri Bob HoganDennis Cotter Kevin CleaveyPaul Stark .Mark Saunier 
Terry Finn Tom Jensen 
Steve Dyer 
Dave Kallenreider 
Frank Pedace Mike Lynch First Round 

Chris Hatfield (2255) v. Ron Lorenzini' (1623) Tom Morris (1135) v. Reggy Payne (6867) Gerry Mulcahy (8321) v. Mark Klein (3702) Gavin Green (1757) v. Bill Straccia (3336) Steve Kricke (277-5581) v. Dan Marchiori (1689) Rob Philips (1437) v. Paul Farentach (6143) Kevin Oerian (7791) v. Mike Wood (8002) Mark Gebhart (7970) v. John Berens (8917)Kevin Young (1670) v. Scott McGillvary (2257) Ed Looney (1398) v. Phil Vanderhoff (1670) 
Dave Ladd (4586) v. John Schafer (6934) Barry Schultz (1628) v. Tony Pierce (1423) Matt Finnigan (4126) v. Mark Mulligan(6428) John Thomassen (3239) John Thomassen (3239) v. Tom Jackson (6759) Cam Clitherde (3434) v. Dave Vardy (3670) Tom Trozzolo (33~6v. Mike Blnkle (3574)Henry Purcell ( ) v. Richard Cordova 
(1024) . . . Oumail Habib (1948) v. Jeff Johnson Sergio Plaza (1031) v. Chris Slatt (1725) Tim Lawliss (6873) v. Rayman Macla (3746) Steve Forche (6380) v. AI Adams (1183) 
WOMEN'S 

Participants receiving byes: Julie Rice Tracy Gilllana 
129 NORTH MICHIGAN S'-T I 8lOCK SOUTH OF THE MOARIS CIVIC AWITOAIUII ON RN'ER BENJ PLAZA DOWNTOWN SOUTH 
Ttcket~on ~ole now at 
· Rtver Ctly Records US 31 Norlh and Bellevtlle Plaza 
·Just For The Record · Boogte Records ·Suspended Chord '• Elkhart · 1l -~ f · Vegeloble Buddtes *.:W, 

ASLEEP AT THE WHEEL 
with _fENTON ROBINSON 
Sat Nov 3 


,......_............ . 
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1?79 -page 23 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to th~ !ssue in which the ad Is run. Tilt Obllntr office will accept 
classlf!eds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifleds must be pre-pald, either In person or through the mall.




Classifieds 
Anyone Interested In running a Presiden­tial campaign for the Mock Republican convention, Call Kevin 1166. 
Improve Your Grades!! 
Send $1.00 for your 306-page catalog of collegiate research. 10,250 topics listed. Box 25097G, Los Angeles, California 90025. (213) 477-8226. ' 
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888. 
Alterations for men and women's cloth­Ing in my home. 255-6275. 
Morrissey Loan Fund--Student loans $20-$200. One percent Interest. Base­ment of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30, M-F. 
SKI TEAM: Dryland training--soccer and fun and games Sundays 10 AM, Tuesdays and Wednesdays 4 PM at ACC soccer fields. Don't forget Nov. 8th meeting at 
6:30 PM in LaFortune. 
Mar1Main Pharmacy at 426 N. Michigan cashes personal checks for students with an ND/SMC ID. 
Thera will be a meeting for anyone Interested In working on RepublicaN Presidential Campaigns for the Mock Convention on Wednesday, Nov. 7 In 2-D Lafortune at 7 PM. 
Lost&Found 
Lost: Mens sliver Rolex Wristwatch. Lost 
at Stepan basketball courts 10/29. Re­
ward--Call Chris at 1852. 
Lost:Gold Ring, Coyle High School1957. Extreme personal value. Call Karen 8163. 
Lost: Blue jacket with white ND insignia at USC game. Go!d watch was In pocket. If found, call Joe at 233-6024. 
Los~: Blue ND jacket with blue lining In Semor Bar Thur. Oct. 18. Contact Diane. 211 BP. Name on Tag--May. 
Lost: Ladies wristwatch, silver with a blue face. Lost while running on Sunday around St. Joe lake. Reward. Call 8702. 
Lost: Silver Omega watch with broken black band--lost in Haggar Hall Auditor­Ium Thursday before break, sentimental value, Reward. Please call Mike 7374. 
Lost: After D'illon formal. Tan coat .wit~ 
zippers for lining, no hood. ll'SU 1 Found: similar one with hood. Want to exchange? Call Sheryl 41-4264. 
Lost: Beige trenchcoat last seen in kitchen beflind LeMans front desk before break. Celia 4611. 
Lost: 1979 Class Ring P.D.R. initialed Gold stone, reward, Call Joe 232-7456. ' 
Found: Check book at Crowley Music Hall. Call Marilyn at 7936to Identify. 
~ost: Green American Congress notebook m the coat racks outside A-line. Please return the notes; the final is cumulative. Call Bob at am. 
After Inventory Discovered: Lost: last spnng a gold necklace with diamond pendant and a gold flower­linked bracelet. Lost: Thursday Oct. 18, navy short­waisted jacket. Lost:Friday Oct. 19, royal blue Lacoste sweater in ladles room of Grace Hall. Please contact Cammy 4489 (SMC). 
Lost: 1979 silver class ring. Initialed AMS, blue stone. Please call Ann at 4-1-5282. 
Lost: Green spiral notebook In Business building on Wednesday, Oct. 31. Call Mike at 6866. 

For Rent 
Furnished Country house eight minutes to campus, 277·3604 or 287-7018. 
Garage for rent. Two blocks from campus. 277-3604 or 287-7018. 
Room tor rent. Furnished, share house, laundry, kitchen prlviledges, near cam­pus. Year lease perferred. Call Ted at 289-0103 nights and weekends. · 
For Rent: Female roommate wanted to sublet Campus View apt. Live with 3 other girls. $100/month, all utilities Included. Call Kathy 283-1320. 
Wanted: HERBIE'S DELl needs driver for campus route, 12-14 hrs/wk. Good pay. Must have transportation 234-6519. 
Female needs apartment and roommates for Spring semester. Call sm. 
Wanted: Colorado Ski Rental Representa­tive. Looking for enterprising Individual to sell ski rentals in spare time on a commission basis to large on-campus groups. Write for details: Sport Stalker Box 22353, Kansas City, MO. 64113. ' 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed­male or female. Apply at the Carriage House, 24460 Adams Road, 272-9220. 
OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year round. 
Eur~pe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. AI~ 11e19s, $5!X!·$1.200 monthly. Expense paid. S1ghtseemg. Free mtormation Wrlte:IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar 

Ca. 92625.  '  
Wanted:  1 United  discount  tix.  Call  
Frank, 8693.  

Wanted: One United Airlines discount coupon. Call 7934. 
Notre Dame football programs at games played prior to 1976. Bob Wiggs, 9730 
E. Troy, Indianapolis, Indiana 46239. 
Wanted: 2 Eagles concert tlxs. Call 8922. 

For Sale 
1970 VW for sale, $475 or best offer. Call Tom at 232-5645. 
2Bedroom House. $26,900. Walk or cycle to Notre Dame from Wooded Estates. Assume 8 percent VA mortgage. Marian Voss LIFE REALTY 272-6330 or 233-6779 
1968 Rambler $200 needs battery will get you home. Call 7979. 
Navy student ticket for sale. Call Mark at 8659 between 4 and 5 p.m. 
United Airlines one-half fare coupon--$40 Call 272-2325. 
For Sale: Complete set of Stanley & Kaplan MCAT review books. Set includes notes and problems for each subject on MCAT, plus one complete simulated test. Asking $40. Call Kate at 4-1-4224. 
For Sale: BAR blue and white, 1Vz' x 4' x 31!2'. Buy~~.~~~!ed out. Call again 6931. 
For Sale: goose-soWn reversible coat with hood In excellent conditiion. Worn for one winter but am alergic to feathers. Must sell. Best offer. Call Mike 1649. 
For Sale: 4 678-14 Radial Tires (14"). Low mileage, Call John at 1689. 
For Sale: Two L78-15 belted snow tires. $50. Call Steve at 8661 or 1432. 
Peach crates are now in stock at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North. Great for storing records, books, plants, etc. 

Tickets 
Need 4student tickets for Navy. Dickie at 1748. 
Need 5Navy GA tickets. FAST. Call Foux 3151 after 7 pm. 
Wanted:GA tickets for any home games. Must be two or more together. Call 287-3311. Danny-Joe. 
I want tickets for the Navy game. Premium. Tom McAuley (312) 460-1177. 
I'm hungry, but my parents can't take me to dinner unless I have two Navy GA tickets. Call Sue 8884. 
$25.00 Need ND-UT football tickets Nov. 10. Will pay $25 pe•. Send tickets C.O.D. to Kurt, 1025 Sunset Dr., Chattanooga, Tenn., 37377. 
Wanted: 1or 2GA's for Navy game. Call Bill1108. 
I need 6 Tenn. tickets, call Russ at 277-1761 after 11 p.m. 
Need 2 Navy GA tickets, call Jim at 232-8129. ­
I will trade cash and/or season student B·Ball ticket for several GA Clemson tixs. 

Need 5.or 6 tickets to ND-Tenn. game. I need 2 Navy GA's. Call1209. Call 683-1359. 
For Sale: 1 ti~et for Navy and Clemson. Clemson GA's many needed: Groups Good price. Ro~. together or at least in ~airs; call collect any day after 9:00 PM (716) 586-8690. Desperately need 2GA Navy tickets. Bill 
8172. 

For Sale: 4 Navy GA tickets. Best offer. Call Jeff at 1022. Need 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles concert. 
Please call 232-4462 after 5:30. Need 2 GA Tennessee tickets. Big $$$. Call1056. wanted:. 1 student season B·Ball ticket 
tor 1979-80 season. Will pay mega bucks. Needed: 5,4,3, or 2GA's or 3 GA's and 2 Please call 289-1262. Mark. student tix for Clemson. Call 2257. 
Help!! Brothers threaten to clean up their acts and become Moonles If 1don't gat them football tlx. Don't fat my parents off 

Personals 

so easily; Please sell me 2 Clemson Patti K.
student tlx. Call Mike, 1740. 
Happy 18th Birthday. We are having a happy hour for you today at 4:30. BeOne Navy ticket wanted. Student or GA. 

there this time--bring your friends.
Call Greg at 1204. 

Joe Badly need 2 or 4 Tenn. tix. Call Ed at 
To the Friends of 601 Hill St.:
234-1530. 
Post Halloween Masquerade party, Friday Nov. 2, be there!

Wanted: 1 Student season B-Ball ticket package for 1979-80 season. Will pay 
Is it true that the Junior Barndance-Hay·mega bucks$$$$$. Please call 289-1262, ride should by the social event ot the

Mark. 
season? Will Donna Leary run the refreshments or will they run her? Will

Need 1 Qlemson GA ticket. Name Price. 
John Hogan go on every hayride--with a
Kevin 289-1718. 
different babe? Will Bill Corrigan try to convince people that he really is a farm

Need 4 Tenn. GA tickets. Will pay $$$. 
boy? Will Laura Leitz wear ten gallon hat
Call Carl 8916. · 
and pointy boots? The only way to find out is to get your low-priced tickets from

Need 2 GA tix and 1 student tickets for your hall reps or In the dining halls--Nov.
Navy. Call Jim 1195. 

10 is the day--don't miss out on the fun! Give away Grand Old Opry tix in 
To the Cape Cod tramp:exchange will buy any number of GA 

All campus knows you spend yourTenn. tix. Call evenings collect: 1-615­breaks--­

352-3669. 
INTERESTED IN WRITING A

Desperately need Navy tix. Bi II 8891. 
JOURNAL? A workshop will be given for those interested in techniques of JungWill pay$$$ for 2 Navy GA tix. Call Rick and Pro~off such as active Imagination

277-1598. 
and meditation. Sessions will be held at 7 pm on Tuesdays (6,13, 20, and 27th) in

Need 2 student tickets for Navy--Call November. Participants are expected toDiane (SMC) 4687. 
attend all four seminars. Interested in Need 1-5 Navy GA's . Call Bill at 8855. exploring your inner processes? Sign up 
at the SMC Counseling and Career 2 Irish cousins from Dublin want to see Development Center. NO beat Navy. Need GA. Call Bill at 
8316. Bruce Springsteen imports now in stock 
at River City Records, 50970 US 31 North Wanted: 2 adjacent GA Clemson tlx. 3miles North of Campus. Open ti1110:0!J Maria 4-1-4677. pm 7days a week. 
Needed: 8GA tickets tor Navy. Call Hank !!Hey Sophomores!! or Brian 232-5471. Happy Hayride & Box dinner Friday, 
Nov. 2, 5:00-8:00 pm. Tickets available in Need 4 student Navy tickets urgently. SMC dining hall and North and South Call J. Clements 3239. Dining Halls at ND. Only room for 60 
girls and 60 guys, so get your tickets Ned needs 2-4 studsent tix for Navy, and NOW!!.. 2-20 GA or student tickets for Tennessee 
away. Phone 8897. Open Stage tonight at the Nazz (9-12). 
Money!! Will pay for 8 desperately CONFUSED ABOUT YOUR MAJOR? needed Clemson tickets. Call Ceci 6620. Two separate Choosing Your Major 
workshops will be given-Monday, Nov. Want to trade 4 Navy GA'a for 4 Clemson 5th at 7 pm in the· McCandless Piano GA's. Call Diane (SMC) 4687. Room and Tuesday, Nov. 6th at 9 pm In 
the Regina South Basement. Come see Need Navy GA tix $$$. Call Jean 1338. what has to be said--it will clear up your questions! 
Needed: 2GA's for Navy and/or Clemson 
Lost: Blue jacket with white ND Insignia
Call Tex 8203. 
at USC game. Gold watch was in pocket.· If found, call Joe at 233-6024.

Frantically searching for 2 Navy GA's for Mom and Dad, Help!! Carol 277-1365. 
FIND THOSE HIDDEN TALENTS! A Putting It All Together workshop willNeed 6 Tennessee tix. Will pay $$$. Jeff be given to help you recognize your job

8764. 
appli~ble skills. It is a two part series to be held on Monday, Nov, 5th and

I need 1or 2Navy tix. Will pay $$$$. Carl 
Wednesday, Nov. 7th at 6 pm In the
8916. 
Student Affairs Conference Room in LeMans. Sign up to start your search nowNeed GA and student tickets for Navy in the SMC Counselling and Careergame! Call Tim at 8693. 

Developmeot Center. Need two Navy GA tlx. Call Joe 8698. 
1) The Committee to bring McGraw back N D will after

I need 4 student or GA Navy tickets. from Dallas to meet 
Clemson. Bart Bryerton will speak. AllLouise 6739. 
Grace thugs and henchmen welcome. 
2) John-D: Thanks tor the gift, scripts,I need 2 GA tix to the Navy game. Call and explaining the "mystery". No of·Anna at SMC 5782. 

tense, but Monty Python isn't threatened yet. Love Ya!

Need at least three GA Navy tickets plus . two student tickets. Call Jim or Dan at Tired of the Sunday slop the dining halls
3328. 
serve? Go on Neighborhood Roots and eat fantastic Hungarian food. Only $2.

Desperately need four Tenn tlx, call1738 or 1697. 
Need Tenn tix, caii41-4101-Tracy. 
Seeing is believing! Need several GA Navy tickets. please call 
Strip Dictionary at 601 N.Hill. Contact
232-7314. Thanks. 

Huggy for info. Springsteen not coming, but I need 4 GA 
J.Y.,

and 2 student Navy tix. Call road To a great Q.B.--congratulations andmanager Jackson at 3087 for a Big good luck on Sunday! Here's hoping forAdvance! 
Fisher's star Q.B. to dazzle Howard's flou:~dering "D"!

Need up to 15Tennessee GA tlx. Will pay D.P. and your photo9rapher, "The$12 each. Call Diane 7906. . 
Buster ' Need 3-4 GA Clemson tix. Please call 
Betsy--Wishing a mega Happy Birthday
John or Dan 3322. 

to the Tallahassee Lassie. Hope you have I need GA tickets for Navy. 1can give you a terrific day! Love, Nina; Colleen, top dollar! Call Eileen at 7828. Susan, Juppy, and Denise. 
._.....•.~--r.ar._.....,.,.,..,.._~.~.,<r..T .'~.· ...-_.......~.T.,......•.•... _....#.•.-:.·-~-•..•~"'~ ·.•.•-*·•,. ••·•. ,....... "'" 
Mary Beth and Jackie! 
Headline stories can result from stair­way conversations. Let's up the price though! 
Drew, 
Happy Birthday to the greatest fiance and the best friend a girl could ever wish for. You're great! I love you. 
Always, Ginger 


Friday, November ';,, 1979 -page 24 _ 
-. ~..-~ ~-----­

Irish, Middies battle for bowls 
by Michael Olenik Sports Writer 
As Notre Dame Stadium fills for the fifth time this fall, both Notre Dame and Navy will be preparing themselves for what could be a most decisive ball­game for each team in terms of a bowl game l?ossibility. 
As many wilt remember from last year, Notre Dame's 27-7 victory in Cleveland over the Midshipmen proved to be the turnin~ point of the season for the Insh in their drive for a major bowl bid. This year's battle will be no different, as both teams come into the game with impressive won-lost re­cords and impressive season statistics. 
Navy once again fields a nationally ranked defense, with seven starters from last year's squad returning, although three of those seven are injured and listed as questionable for the.game. Despite missing all three players in recent weeks, Navy has 'continued to play an 
Split end Tony Hunter, who leads Notre Dame in recep#ons 
impressive defensive game
with 18, may miss tomorrow's game because ofa. shoulder 
week after week. 
tn 
leers try to rebound against UMD 
by Brian Beglane Pioneers marked the third time outskated us to nearly everySports Wn'ter Notre Dame lost both games of loose puck. a league opener and extended "Defensively, we could not DULUTH Minn. --A some­the Insh los~ng streak to WCHA control the puck in our own end 
............ what hurting but determined teams to erght. Notre Dame and were much too erratic Notre Dame hockey team ar­ended the season last year with passing in our zone. Our rived here last night in search six losses, and the main concern 
goaltenders did not get much 
of its first Western Collegiate ofcoach Lefty Smith is to put an help in clearing the puck. That Hockey Association victory of end to that skid. is something we will have to key 
the year. The Irish faceoff "We did not do many things on in practice this week. Were tonight and tomorrow evening right against Denver," says it not for the play of g;oalies
against Minnesota-Duluth at Smith. "Fundamental mis­Dave Laurion (Internauonalthe Duluth Civic Arena. takes did us in. Offensively, we Falls, Minn.) and Bob 
The Irish dropped both did not pass the puck well and McNamara (Toronto, Ontario), 
games to Denver University failed to cash in when we had the scores both nights would 
last week, 6-4 and 5-3 and are the opportunities. Give Denver 
[continued on page 21]
1-2 oyerall The sweep by rbe all the credit in the world -they 
·­

A gourmet 's delight --NFL 19 79 
Had a relaxing vacation you sar.? No, I didn't make it home for break. But while doomed to a Mike week-long stay in this tropical paradise, I became accustomed to a steady diet of National Football League games and South Bend restaur­Previte ants. 

against powerhouses like Green Bay andI don't claim to be a gourmet. 
Baltimore have left fans puzzled.
In fact, the mere sight of vegetables brings 
Houston Oilers-Last year's Bum (coach
visions of Pepto-Bismol and Di-Gel. With Phillips) must help overcome a tough slate thatapologies to the maitre d' then, here is my includes Dallas and Miami down the stretch. hisassessment of the NFL (a la carte) just past the team never wins easily as evidenced bymidpoint of its 1979 season, and an outlook for squandered large leads over the Jets (27-24) andpossible playoff contenders. 
Bengals (30-27). 

MOONRAKER/BOAR'S HEAD DIVISION ... a Cleveland Browns-The dark horse choice todelight anytime make the AFC playoffs has used the arm ofPittsburgh Steelers -The Steel Curtain held Brian Sipe in hard fought wins over CardinalsTony Dorsett and the Cowboys to only 79 yards and Bengals. Lake Erie's gangbusters haverushing Sunday. Barring major injuries to key recovered from a three game skid after opening personnel the Terrible Towel crew should be up the season at 4-0.
favorites to make an appearance at Super Bowl MURROW's NUT HOUSE DIVISION ... (the XIV. 
AFC West) ... A Sunday visit to your favoriteDallas Cowboys-The addition of John Dutton 
amusement park. Watch these teams knockmakes a difference in a weakened defensive line. 
each other off the rest of the way as you eat yourMotivation a key factor as four crucial games cotton candy .... Truly a bettor's nightmare.
with division rivals Eagles and Redskins remain. 
San DiegoChargers~ (6-3)-Dan Fouts has comeDefinitely the favorite in the NFC. 
into his own as a premiere QB with talented
WENDY'S HOT N' JUICY DIVISION .... (all receivers like John Jefferson and Kellen6-3) A quick, but quafity product. Not quite Winslow. Choice to win since future Qilttles vs.
........ prime rib fllil.terial, but .certainly a cut above 
Pittsbu'rgh and Denver are at home . 
..___ ordinary hamburger. • 
Oakland Razders-(5-4)-Football's most disliked
Miami Dolphins-Former AU-Pro Larry Czonka team rebounds from 1-4 lackluster start. AIlooks like 1973 revisited. QB Bob Gnese must Davis always seems to find the running backsrepeat performances like Sunday vs. Packers. 
(Booker Russell3 TD's last week). Fans starved November 29th home game vs. Pats could be for for a winner after watching Oakland triple-A'sAFC East title. 
--baseball season.
New England Patn'o_ts-As Steve Grogan g<?es, so Denver Broncos-(6-3)-IP Craig Morton was
go the Pats. Possr~ly the r;nost unpredrct~ble 
allowed ro QB in a golf can, Orange Crush fans 
team in the NFL. Will Kermtt the Frog be htred as special teams coach? Team's errati& shQwings [continued on page 21] 
By allowing only 78.1 yards per game on the ground and 
233.4 yards in total offense, Navy's defense continues to rank in the top ten of the NCAA'S statisucal records, giving them an on paper edge over the Irish in that depart­ment. Linebackers Mike Kron­zer and Tom Paulk are the cornerstones of the Middie's defense, leading the team in tackles with 86 and 77 respec­tively, while defensive end Charlie Thorton leads the de­fense in big plays by causing opportune fumbles and making btg tackles for losses. 
Although Navy's offense is 
not as highly rated as its defensive unit, it has more than its share of talented individu­als. When healthy, the Mid­shipmen's running attack is one of the best in the nation, boasting six runners who have 100 or more yards rushing so far this season. This balanced ground game should prove to be an even more valuable asset this weekend, as Navy's top two 
runners, Mike Sherlock and Steve Callahan, will probably watch the game from the side­lines. Sophomore tailback Du­ane Flowers will be called upon to replace Sherlock as Navy's 
starting tailback, with the star­ting fullback job going to Larry Klawinski, a 6-foot, 220-pound senior. Navy's offense is led by senior quarterback Bob Powers, who has completed 38 of his 85 

pass attem_{>ts for 549 yards 
while throwmg for four touch­
downs. Powers is not afraid to 
run with the ball, however, as is 
evident by his 68 carries and 
154 yards rushing. 

The Irish defense, which has 'been plagued by injuries throughout the season, will be relatively healthy, as Dave Waymer, John Krimm, Steve Cichy, and Tom Gibbons will be reunited for only the second time since the Purdue game. Bob Crable, who tied Bob Golic's record for tackles in a single game last week against South Carolina with 26 stops, will anchor the middle of the defense and will be flanked by Mike Whittington and Bobby Leopold. The defensive line will be missing Scott Zettek and Mark Czaja, but with the depth of)oe ¥onto's line, both will be adequately replaced. 
Offensively, quarterback Rusty Lisch is coming off the best passing day of his career last Saturday when he connec­ted on 24 of his 43 passes for a total of 336 yards, including a last-minute touchdown strike to Dean Masztak. The Irish are averaging 395.1 yards per game on offense this year, and they should prove to be tough test for the Navy defense. Va~as Ferguson will lead the Insh ground game once again and, despite having a bruised shoul­der, could bread the 1 ,000-yard mark for the second consecutive year . 
Season nears for ND 
by Paul Mullaney try's best. And Phelps, makin~ Assistant Sports Editor no bones about it, doesn't see It much differently. 
As Notre Dame basketball "We're as good as anyone in coach Richard' 'Digger'' Phelps this country,'' insists Phelps, would tell his Irish players, entering his ninth year at the "It's time to play--babysitting helm. of the Irish. "The is over." majority of this team has been 
While Phelps and Company on the best two teams 'in·Notre are steadily readying for the DaiPe's history--one a national Nov. 15 exhibition opener a-finalist and one a regional gainst the Sovret Union Olym-finalist. The next step is to win pic squad at the Athletic and it." Convocation Center, pre-season Only two members of last basketball publications are a!-year's 24-6 squad were lost to ready placing high expectations graduation. Bruce Flowers and on the Irish. Bill Laimbeer, both currently 
Street and Smith's magazine playing professional basketball has picked Notre Dame fourth m Italy, shared the pivot and nationally. while Playboy has 
~p~;t~tB1-iel~hnued on page201 
Interhall needs refs 
The lnterhall Athletic Department is looking for officials to referee at interhall basketball games. Persons interested to stop by office C-4 in the ACC before Nov. 7. 

FCA holds meeting 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes has established a huddle at Notre Dame and is open to all those interested. FCA is a national organization which has many members who are involved in athletics on the high school, college and professional levels. The Notre Dame huddl~would like to mvite all athletes, whether they are varsity, ctub, interhall, intrahall, or just part-time. 
FCA centers around the belief that Christ is the center of life, in athletics and academics. Meetings usually revolve around a topic in which Christ can be related and perhaps seen as the answer. 
The next meeting will be held Monday, NOv. 5, at 10 p.m. in the Dillon Hall Chapel. Meetings run for approximately one hour. If you have· any questions or are unable to attend, please contact Matt Ca!O at 4594. o.r: in 225 Dillon . 
• 






