Irish lose -page 12
I I I 
VOL. XIII, NO. 71 . 
Chinese diplomat visits D.C. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Teng Hsia-ping, the driving force in China's outward reach to the West, came to the United States yesterday for talks with President Carter and a coast-to-coast tour that will draw the world's most advanced nation closer to its most populous one. 
The first of China's communist leaders to visit this country, Teng is at the center of a nine-day while of meetings and ceremon­ies trumpeting a new era in the relationship between China and the United States. The new era beganJan. 1 with full diplomatic recognition between the two na­tions. 
T eng and Carter have sched­uled SIX hours of conversation, starting with the first of two White House sessions today after a formal greeting on the South Lawn. That formal welcome, with its speeches and ceremony, will be Carter's first face-to-face MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1979 
' --·,; ' ;"'~; ~. -.~~­
,, '·"!><­
· .....""-'"·'·'"""' ·'' 
. --· . »"" •. ,x"
_....,...,. ., . 
. .,..,·. 
... 
•' ~~--~--f
•
. . ...,,
·.··"r·J· 
·!·: .....,.·· 
Despite the University's posted warnings fowl creatures decided to take a dzp in icy St. lWary 'sLake. [photo by 
encounter with China's 74-year­
old vice premier. According to report 
During his stay in this country, Teng will visit a Ford plant near Atlanta, sample barbecue at a 

0-C housing burglaries decrease
Texas rodeo and inspect the Boeing plant in Seattle which will build three new jumbo jets for 
The figures for the report are crease of 3.93 percent for the zones 6, 7, 19, and 10 asChina at a cost of $156 million. bv Kathleen Connelly taken from the South Bend Police South Bend vicinity. compared with 22.42 percent for 
Groups of anti-communists and 
Senior StaffReporter files. Numbers of burglaries The report also contains an 1978.
radical leftists have threatened to represent only those occurring in analysis of each of the four zones The decreases in zones 6, 7 and protest Teng' s visit at every sto,P. Last year burglaries in high residences. The figures repre­with the highest concentration of 19 can be traced to low figures for They have been given pernuts student concentration areas sent only burglaries, not other students: zone 10, located in the the fttst half of the .year. Fromfor rallies and marches today (HSCA) showed a 3.19 percent types of crimes such as robber­northeast neighborhood of South Jan. 1 through June 30, 1978 near the White House, where decrease as compared to 1977. ies, assaults or damages to Bend, which has a known student incidents were very low as com­T eng and Carter will meet for the According to a report prepared property. Figures given for 1977 population of 447; zone 19, pared with the period July 1first time. Police in Texas, by Dan D'Antonio of the Off­and 1978 comparisons are for the bordered by Lincolnway, Walnut, through Nov. 30.
Georgia and Washington state Campus Housing Office, 408 period 1-1 to 11-30, due to the Washin~ton, and Williams D'Antonio, supervisor of Off­also are anticipating protests. 
HSCA burglaries were reported unavailability of data for Decem­Street, Wlth 119 students; zone 7, Campus Housing and a secondPolice in every clty Teng will in 1977, but only 395 reports of ber of 1977. which runs along the St. Joseph year law student, believes that
visit are mounting extra security burglaries were called in to the The 3.91 percent decrease is River from Angela to Madison, the report demonstrates a needprecautions. _ 
South Bend police in 1978. contrasted with an overall in-with Portage forming the border for the safety education of off-
with zone 6 which is bounded by (continued on page 4]
Lincolnway and by railroad tracks 
in the northwest; 
Zones 6 and 7 have approxi­
mate student (><>Pulations of 193 
Security releases suspect 
Assailant 
and 90 respectively. The figures 
Hall residentS suffer thefts 
are only approximate since there are students residin_g in these 
attacks, rapes
by Ray McGrath knocked, he had "fallen into the room." However, areas who are not registered with Senior StaffReporter O'Brien reports that "the intruder was halfway Off-Campus Housing. 
grad·student
across the room. It was clear that he intended to go Of the four zones only one, 
Several Alumni Hall residents lost money in a in." zone 10, showed an increase in 
series of apparent thefts that occured shortly after Following the incident, O'Brien and another hall incidences of burglaries for 1978. A woman student at Notre 
midnight Sunday morning. Students on all three of resident, Vince Fairhurst, caught the suspects In 1977, 89 burglaries were Dame was the victim of a 
Alumni floors were victimized by thefts. The outside the dormitory and held them until Security recorded, but 1978 saw an in­burglary and rape early Friday 
losses totaled over $100. officers arrived. crease of 46.07 percent with 130 morrung, according to campus 
Several Notre Dame Security officers, along with When local police arrived, the three were reported burglaries. Security. at least one member of the County Sheriff's office, searched and one of them was found in the Despite these figures, zone 10 Entry to the victim's apartment responded to reports that three teen age males possession ofover $100. According to one student, does not have the highest inci­was gained through an unlocked were entering occupied and unoccupied rooms, the suspect presented an alibi, explaining that he dence rate among the four HSCA window, and the assailant was explaining when questioned.. that ~hey were had cashed a paycheck to acqwre the money, zones. Zone 6, in which reported described as in his 20's and about looking for a party that was taking place m the hall. whereupon "security just said 'get lost'." burglaries decreased by 1.76 5-9 or 5-10 in height. 
One student, Jim Dooley, stated that he and Missmg wallets and ID' s were found around the percent has been fttst both in the The victim was treated at Saint another student in his section lost considerable hall. Fr. George Rozum, Alumni Hall rector, HSCA Zones and in the entire Joseph's Hospital and released. sums of money. Dooley explained that one person remarked that the suspects "appear to have been South Bend area for the past two St. Joseph's County Sheriff's. entered unannounced mto a room across the hall clever and experienced; they managed to get rid of years. police are investigating. from his residence. The person asked dirc;ctio.ns to all the wallets and identification before anyone The other two HSCA areas, Notre Dame Security Director the party, while two others were seen outs1de mthe caught on." zones 7 and 19, saw decreases of Joe Wall notified TJ.e Observer hall by neighbors. Shortly thereafter, the two Dooley, among others, was disappointed that the 31.93 and 35.29 percent respec­Friday that his department is students found that their wallets were missing suspects were released so 9uickly. "There was no tively. expanding its foot patrol to from their rooms. hard evidence, but the pollee could have at least There has also been a decrease include the townhouses on Notre 
Around the same time, one of the three suspects gotten them for trespassing. That would have in the percentage of burlaries in Dame Avenue. Between two and was seen entering an unoccupied room elsewhere given them time to check the story about the South Bend occurring in HSCA four security officers will patrol in the hall. Kevin O'Brien, another student, check," Dooley said. zones. In 1977, 23.94 percent of the area on foot each night from 9 caught the intruder, who explained to O'Brien that Securicy refused to comment regarding the the burglaries committed in the p.m. to 3 or 4 a.m. Regular auto the door had been ajar and that when he had incident. South Bend vicinity occurred in . patrol will continue as usual. 
Monday, January 29, 1979 -page 2


News in brief 
Additional Gacy victims identified in Chicago 

CHICAGO (AP) · Two more skeletons among the 27 found at the home of accused mass murderer John Wayne Gacy Jr. have been identified. Authorities said they were 20-year-old men missin.:g since late 1977. The Cook County medical examiner identified the men Saturday as John Mowry, of Chicago, and Matthew Bowman, of suburban Crystal Lake. 
Connally expects Kennedy as Demo candidate in '80 
NEW YORK (AP) · Republican presidential hopeful John Connally said yesteraay that he expects Sen. Edward Kennedy to run for fresident, and if he does, Connally said he can beat him. "I I ever saw a man positioning himself to run for president, Sen. Kennedy is," Connally said, addin~ that Kennedy could "take away the (Democratic) nonu­nation" from President Carter. But Connally, who was interviewed on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press," said he believes he can beat either Kennedy or Carter because "I think I would more accurately reflect the attitude of the American pe<>ple today." Connally, a former Texas governor, said that attitude is one of fiscal conservatism, and he proposed a 5 percent across the board cut in federal spending. 
Memorial services today for former VP Rockefeller 
TARRYTOWN, N.Y. (AP) -The body of former Vice President Nelson Rockefeller, 70, was cremated yesterday, a family spokesman said, a day before a private memorial service was scheduled at the Rockefeller estate overlooking the Hudson River. Rockefeller's ashes will be buried today at the family cemetary at the Pocantico Hills estate. Rockefeller served 15 years as governor of New York and two years as vice president under Gerald R. Ford. It was originally announced that Rockefeller had died in his offices at Rockefeller Center. Later, however, family spokesman Hugh Morrow said that Rockefeller had been working on his art book at his desk at private offices on 13 West 54th Street when he collapsr-d. 
jim Junes in-law denies cult leader 's estate 
RICHMOND, Ind. (AP) · The mother-in-law of Peoples Temple leader Jim Jones, the man who led more than 900 followers to thelC deaths in a mass suicide-murder ritual last year, has denied reports that the cult founder left a multi-million dollar estate. Mrs. Baldwin, said Jones' adopted daughter,, S.l;i~~nne,_ 26, told her~ $17,000 aCCC;'Unt in Nassau and"§ome )jroperty sold to a Richmond famdy are Jones' only remaimng assets. "Suzanne told me the other things he owned are tied up through the church and may remain that way,'' Mrs. Baldwin said. ''She dido' t know iust what else he might own, but whatever it is, the lawyers fees-are going to eat that up." · 
Weather 

Partly sunny today with highs in the low 30s, Partly cloudy tonight with lows in the upper teens. Increasing cloudiness tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 20s. 

s 
3:30 pm--IECIURE, ''st. thomas aquinas & pastoral care,'' prof leonard boyle, u. of toronto, sponsored by medieval institute, MEM. UB.-7th FLOOR 
.. :r .. 

3:30 & 8:30 pro--FILM, "the pawnbroker," ENGR. AUD. 6 & 11 pm--FIIM, "save the tiger," ENGR. AUD. 7 & 10 pm--FILM, "the king & i," CARROll HAIL-SMC ~MEETING bicycle t~uring club,~ FORnJNE BASE­
7:30 
pm--FILM, "pierrot le fou," sponsored by speech and drama dept., WASH. HAll 

7:30 
pm--THIRD WORlD WORKSHOP, LA. FOR1UNE _ BA.Il..ROOM 


11 pm--RADIO FREE N.D., special guest brian hogan, live from the nazz, WSND-AM 640 
12:15 am--NOC1URNED NIGHIFUGfiT, nightrain lane fea­tures grateful dead, WSND-FM 88.9 

Pope John-Paul II tells bishops to seek social justice spiritually 
PUEBLA., Mexico (AP)-Pope out against violence to achieve with torches, shouting ''Viva el John Paul II, cheered by nllllions social change, but said church Papa!" Some slept in the streets as his car inched its way to leaders should continue to fight to make certain they would be Puebla, told Latin American for more equal distribution of able to view the pope's motor­bishops in a major address wealth and for human ri&hts. cade. yesterday that social justice must Police in helicopters flymg over Banners hung throughout the be sought spiritually and not the pope's motorcade as it drove city. "Down with the Fascists, a politically. to Puebla 75 miles southeast of leftist church is our only salva­
The pope encountered opposi­Mexico City, said 10 million o tion," read one. Others said, tion as a group of rebel priests, people gathered along the route. "Revive spiritual values" and demanding that the Roman The surging crowds ftlled three "Long live the Holy Church." Catholic church take a more lanes of the four-lane valley John Paul told the 250 bishops active role aginst opJ?ression, highway, causing a delay in the that the church should serve as organized a "dissidents confer-pope's schedule. ''the voice of human conscience.' ence. " Church bells pealed a deafen­''Whatever the miseries or 
They said it would discuss ing cadence as the pope's motor­suffering that afflict man, it is not human rights and social reforms, cade reached the entrance of this through violence, the interplay of which they claimed would be city of one milion, a bastion of power and political systems, but ignored by the bishops' meeting. Catholicism in an officially anti­through the truth concerning The third Latin American clerical nation. man that he journeys toward a bishops' conference is expected Bonfires dotted the edges of better future,' ' he said. to determine the church's future the highway, where thousands The pope expressed the role in the social and political life had camped overnight for a church's opposition to "cam­of turbulent Latin America. vantage spot. paigns in favor of divorce, of the 
The Polish-born pontiff Puebla was in a festive mood use of contraceptive practices cautioned the bishops against for the pope's arrival. Young and of abortion which destroys depicting Christ as a political people trotted through the city society." figure involved in class sttugge. 
"The idea of Christ as a political figure does not tally with the Church's catechesis," John Paul said in the speech believed to be his most important state­ment since his election Oct. 16. 
The 58-year-old pontiff ~poke 

mlchael&co. 
YWCA plans 
Hair Concepts 
Job Readiness 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care'
Job Readiness, a 12-hour group counseling program, will begin Tuesday, Feb. 6, at the Women's 
open late tues.-thurs. 8pm 
Career Center located on the 
North 1f2 mile east of notte dame
fourth floor of the YWCA, 802 North Lafayette, South Bend. 
18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222
The four three-hour sessions, held daily from 9 a.m. to 12 noon, 
South 2041 E.lteland at ltonwood 
will deal with interst and skills assessment, community resour­
master charge visa 291-1001 
ces to facilitate the job search, resume writing, interview tech­niques, and professionalism. 
Fees are charged on a· sliding scale and child care is available 
CELEBRATION I SUNSHINE
sessions. To register or for further information call The Wo­
and 
men's Career Center at 287-8356. 
N.D. STUDENT UNION 
Ptesent
The Observer 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: jim Rudd Copy Readers: Debbie 



HEART
Da!Jrling, Mike Ridenour Layout Staff: Rod Beard, 

with guest
Margaret Kruse Editorial Layout: Margie Brassil 

EXILE
Features Layout: Tim Joyce Sports Layout: Mark Perry 

Thutsday Feb 22
TY-P,ists: Kim Convey, Belh Willard, Bill Swift, Katie Breh/ 

8:00Pm
Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey Day Editor: Kate Kilkuskie 

NOTRE DAmE ACC
Ad Layout: ? Photographer: Mike Bigley 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 is 

Tickets J8.00 and J7.00
published Monday through Friday 'ex· cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the 

NOW ON SALE 
students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year l$10 per 

ACC Ticket Office 
semester! from The Observer. P.O. box 
and
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 

Student Union Ticket Office 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer Monday, January 29, J979 -page 3 
Iran rioting "Worsens; street violence kills 27 
lH-IRAN, Iran (AP)-Troops firing machine guns and anti­government rioters armed with firebombs turned central Tehran inro a bloody, flaming battlefront yesterday tn the city's worst violence in months. At least 27 persons were reported killed and more than 300 wounded. 
The street warfare exploded as Iran's political crisis reached a new and dangerous impasse. 
Avatullah Ruhollah Khomeini, spiritual lt·ader of the anti-shah movement, rejected a pro~sal by Iran's Prime Mintster Shahpour Bakhtiar for a meeting at Khomeini's exile headquarters in France. 
The Moslem holy man demanded that the prime minis­ter resign to prove he is "on the side of the angels'' and not of the shah. 
But official French sources said Bakhtiar would travel to Paris today anyway, and this led to speculation that the prime minis­ter, under increasing pressure from Khomeini's legions of mili­tant supporters here, might be going to Paris to resign. 
The tension and violence in Tehran had been mounting for days as the Rakhtiar government continut·d to block Khomeini's plans to return to Iran and transform the country into an Islamic republic. 
Thousands of/ro-Khomeini protesters floode Tehran streets yesterday chanting ''Death to Bakhtiar!" and one large group tried to storm a police headguar­ters, flinging gasoline-ftllcd bottles agatnst the building. 
Troops rushed to the scene and opened fire with 30-caliber machine guns mounted on the backs of trucks. Military officials later said the rioters were armed with machine guns and grenades, but reporters who witnessed the grisly three-hour said they saw none. 
Snipers opened up with pistols from rooftops. Their identities were unclear but at one point they were firing at demonstra­tors. 
It was Tehran's bloodiest day since Sept. 8, when 121 persons died in political violence. Gunfire continued sporadically after nightf.!ill . 
Bakhtiar announced Saturday he intended to fly to Paris to meet with Khomeini and seek his advice on Iran's future. 
At first, Khomeini' s aides issued conflicting statements about whether the religious lead­er would receive Bakhtiar. Then Khomeini told reporters yester­day he would not, unless he resigned as prime minister. . 
The 78-year-old Khomeini reit­erated his stand that Bakhtiar' s government is "illegal" because tt was appointed by the "illegal" Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who was forced into an indefinite trip abroad by the mass move­ment of strikes and demonstra­tions orchestrated by Khomeini. 


The weather failed to keep this squi1Tel from searching for food on the heavily snow-covered ground. little reliefis in store for him today with expectedhighs in the low 30s, andincreasing cloudiness tomomJW with highs in the midto upper 20s. [photo by Mike Bigley] 
Two Hanner freshmen suffer iniuries 
by Sue Wuetcher Senior StaffReporter 

A Notre Dame freshman was injured over the semester break in a toboggan accident near his home in Bethelem, PA. 
Bernard E. Uude) Quinn, a resident ofFlanner Hall, suffered a fractured skull and contusions of the brain when his head struck a rock after he was thrown from a toboggan ) an. 13. 
Quinn has suffered no per­manent brain damage according to Fr. Thomas McNally of Campus Ministry, who talked with Quinn's mother last Th:.!'"S­day. He is now out of interi. ~ve care, and has been placed in a regular hospttal room. Doctors say it will be 4 to ~ weeks before Quinn fully recovers. 
Bro. Pete Mahoney, rector of Flanner Hall, added that Paul Quigley, a freshman from Milton, MA., broke both legs in an automobile accident over the semester break. He and Quinu are good friends, and lived in the same section of Flanner. 
Both students have been for­mally withdrawn from the Uni­versity on extended leaves of absence. 
McNally will offer a mass in thanksgiving for Quinn's speedy recovery on Feb. 1 at 10 p.m. in the Log Chapel. The mass is for members of McNally's Exploring Faith class, of which Quinn was a member. 

Manap,ing to find one ofthe few thawedpatches in the lake, the ducks carry on life as usual. fpholo by Mz:te Btgley] 
Singer cheers captives as hijack fails, 
NEW YORK (AP) -A woman who allegedly coounandeered a jumbo jet with 131 persons aboard was jailed yesterday after being overpowered by an FBI agent as actor Theodore Bikd sang to calm his fellow passengers. 
"It wasn't entertainment, it was therapy,'' said Bikel, who played the guitar and sang during the 6 1I 2 hours the jet was parked at Kennedy lnter­natiotial Airpon after arriving from Los Angeles. 
The FBI · said Irene 
1\'fcKinney, a 49-year-old di­vorced mother of two described as distraught about her family and the Roman Catholic Church, commandeered the plane because she wanted to 
.preempt network television. · Bikel, actor Sam Jaffe, .ageqt Sue Mengers and sm§er Dir:o 
Martin, son of Dean Martin, were amons. ·the celebrities .aboard the hijacked flight. The flight carried 119 passengers 
and a crew of 12. 
For a time, Martin helped 
Bikel entenain the passengers, 
who snapped their fingers 
instead of applauding to avoid 
disrupting the FBI's negotia­
tions with Mrs. McKinney in 
the rear of the plane. 
• No one was injured during the 11-hour ordeal in which the woman threatened to blow up the plane with nitroglycerin unless Charlton Heston, ) ack Lemmon or Lindsay Wagner reaq ari ~unspecified note over the air. 
Heston ~pent five hours at the airport m Los Angeles and said afterwards, "I was pre­pared to do whatever I had to.'' 
Mrs. MeKinney, who lists separate addresses in Los Angeles and CYJ>,ress, CA was to be arraigned"' U.S. District Coun in Brooklyn, possibly today. 
Authorities said Mrs. McKinney hijacked the plane over Prescott, AZ, after passing a note to the pilot, Thomas Cook, claiming that she had nitroglycerin, a highly explo­sive chemical, in her flight bag. It was later discovered that the bag contained a bottle of per­fume, a plane ticket and per­sonal items, but no explosives. 
. FBI agent Quentin End de­scribed Mrs. McKinney as "a fallen away Catholic, ambiva­lent about developments in ·the Church" and ' distraught" about her family situation. She was divorced from her husband. and subsequently lost custody of her· two children. 

Commissioners allocate funds 
The Board of Commissioners appropriated money to various campus organizations last night at a meeting held in the student government offices. 
According to Beau Mason, student body treasurer, student government officials decided to allocate a portion of their $15,000 "emergency" fund to various organization who applied for funds. 
Student activity fees were the source of the fund and the majority of the monies were allocated last semester to Student Government, Student Union, Hall President's Council. The $15,000 was the amount left over after first semester appropria­tions. 
The following clubs and oraan­izations will receive funding: --Rapport, the Black Student 
Union newspaper: $374 --Management Oub: $50 --Rugby Oub: $300 --AIESEC (International 
Business Organization): $100 --Sr. Marna's Primary Day School: $250 
--Alpha Epsilon Delta (Pre­med fraterruty and sorority): $100 
--Architecture Rome Book: $260 
• 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

•~n~ u.,H'','n·'this coupon. Limit 1. Now thruJan. 31. I . imports or orher Slille items. 
I 

checks accept•d for up to 1 JlO.OO over .purchase amount l 1 ,,.,., .• ~_ ............... ~ albums p.n·d tapes to choose fto~ 1 
•Peo.ch ·crates available 1 
Rivc:r City Records •· I )~)70 u.s. 31 North; 3 miles north of.Notre I>-.if!le I \{;;':; , t~~2~~·10 7 days a week . I 
.. 

~---------------' • 
The Observer Monday, January 29, 1979 -page 4 
• • . burglaries 
[continued from page 1) for this semester in terms of 
campus students and those con­organization. ''The major repre­
sidering or planning on moving sentation is for on-campus people 
off-campus. and we're concerned that off­
"I can't tell the South Bend campus students don't have for­
Police what to do. 'This (report) is mal voice in the form of an .one thing we can do to make elected representative as to them constantly aware of what is where money is being allocated,'' 
going on in these areas,'' he noted. 
D'Antonio said. An informal off-campus council 
The report was turned over to already exists, but Fitzpatrick 
the data processing division of and others would like to see a 
the South Bend Police Defan­constitutional amendment that 
ment last Tuesday, but as o last would provide for a formal off­
Friday it had not yet been campus council similar in status 
reviewed. to the Hall President's Council 
''I'm trying to create an aware­and an elected representative on 
ness with the report. There is a the Board of Commissioners. 
need for an off-campus student Election of an off-campus rep­
organization,'' D'Antonio com­resentative could pose a problem 
mented. as there is no listmg of students 
D'Antonio noted that the or­according to area available at ganization of off-campus stu­present. The registrar's office dents is the responsibility of has an alphabetical listing of off­Student Government, but that campus students, but they are the Off-Campus Housin~ Office not grouped according to loca­


would be open and available to tion. 
them for help. Efforts are presently directed Copies of the Off-Campus towards a workable grouping of Office Report on burglaries are off-campus students as well as a 



Notre Dame-
available for review at the Off­correlanon of information from CamJ?US Housing Office, 31S the registrar's office and the Administration Building. off-campus housing office to de­


Saint Mary's
John Fitzpatrick, student Gov­termine which students are not ernment off-campus commis­!ivins in inspected and approved sioner, concurred with D'Antonio housmg. F1tz,earrick hopes that 
MONLIAY THKU rRt~Y
analysis of the situation. this work wdl be completed 
(Night}


Shuttle Schedule 
"I agree with Dan's thinking sometime in March. 
A:rriv~ I•J<-dl_ion

NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S
that students need to organize, Once the off-campus studnets 
6:1!1 ~~ )lolL McCandless 
6":2? Mll Grotto 

SHUTTLE SERVICE
and in fact that's what we've are organized, Fitzpatrick would 
6:30 NO library '6:40 YlnpLIS. VifW
been working on this semester.'' like to explore the possibilities of 
t6:SO NO Apts.

MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY SCHEDULE •7:00 If) Library
Fitzpatrick has several goals [continued on page 9] 
NO Main Circle

(DAY) 7:05 
7:10 NU Grotto 
7:15 SHC McCandless ND ltbrary

BUS #1 ''"'
············································••························· 
7:4!1 SHC l'kCandlessAtd•Jk 
8:00 ri.l Ubrary 
8:15 SMC Hccand lesJ

SMC{PARKI NG LOD ~-Q_j,I~RARY ,-8:30 
P(J Libr1ry 8:45-9:15 Break 
9:30 If) library

ARRIVE LEAVE LEAVE ARRIVE LEAVE 
9:45 SNC McC.ndless 10:00 NO libr1ry 

7:35 am SM: Mt::Cindlen10:15
U uwon't readl 
7:40 7:55 am s:oot 8:03 8:05 10:30 NO ltbr1ry
8; 15 8:15 8:30 8:30 8:33 8:35 10:45 SHC Mccandless 
11:00 NO librlry

8:45 8:55 9:0S 9:10 9:13 9:15 11:15 SMC HcC.ndless 
9:25 9:25 9:40 9:40 9:43 9:45 11:30 NO Ubnry 
!1:4; SMC McC.ndless

9:55 10:00 10:12 10:15 10:18 10:20 11:52 I() Grotto 
10:30 10:30 10:42 10:50 10:53 10:55 U:56 MD Kain ttrde

.....ese 7signals · 
12:00 am ND libr•ry

11:02 11:05 11: 17 ll: 20 11:23 11:25 
'12:15 Cppus Ytar 

11:32 11:35 11:50 ll :50 11:53 11:55 +12:30 ND Apts. 
12:40 NO Main Circle

12:05 pm 12:10 12:25 pm 12: 301t 12:33 12:35 12:45 SMC McCindless 12:45 12:50 1:02 1:05 1:08 1:10 
~

1: 17 1:20 1:35 1:35 1:38 1:40 1:00 t(0 ltbney 1:50 1:55 2:07 2:10 2:13 2:15 1:15 
SMC MdAndless 
1:30 f«) libr1ry



ofcancer... 

2:22 2:35 2:47 2:50 2:53 2:55 T:l5 SMC MdAndless 3:05 3: 15 3:27 3:30 3:33 3:35 
1:52 NO Grotto 
2:00 NO M1tn Circle

3:45 (1) 4:00 (1) 4:05 +2:08 NO Apu. 
~yt., 2:30 ltD li~r1ry
. ~ 

4:15 4:30 4:35 '2'20 
4:45 S:Oof 5:05 2:35 NO M•ln Circle NO Grotto
5:15 5:30 5:35 2'"'
2:45 SMC llc:C...less

5:45 6:00 6:05 
• 
Notes
You probablyhave the 8th. . ." : 

Not passing the Main Circle Ptt::k up in Kroger's P1rttng l.DtBUS #2 ~ Pttk up at comer of II), Ave. lf\ld Corby Street.
NO LIBRARY MAIN C1~ SMC PARKING LOT 
O.ttttnoStoes 

7 35 am 7:40. 7:43 am 7:45 7:55 am 8:00 
. 
Mondi.Y·frtdly 6":45 SfiC McC.ndless 8 15 8:15 8:18 8:20' 8:30 8:30 Monday~F,.iday 12:15 SK lk:C.nclless 
Fridiy 2: IS SMC MdAndless

8 45 8:55 8:58 9:00 9:07 99:10
1.Change in bowel or bladder habit.s. ! 

9 25 9:25 9:28 9:30 9:40 9:40 Monday-Fr1dly 6:25 I() Main Ctrde Mondly-Frfday 12:JO MD library
9 52 10:00 10:03 10:05 10: 12 10:15 
Fr-iday 2:00 II) l1br1ry

10 30 10:30 10:33 10:35 10:45 10:50 
11 02 11:05 11:08 11:10 11:17 11:20 
11 35 11:35 11:38 11:40 11:50 11:50 
a• . 
Asore that does not heal. 
SloTURDAY ':"r!KU SUNOk.Y (ICtqht)

12 05 pm 12:10 12:13 pm 12:15 12:25 pm 12:30 12 45 12:50 12:53 12:55 1:05 1:05 
1 17 1:20 1:23 1:25 1:35 1:35 6:00 pm SHC McCandless
3•Unusual bleeding or discharge. 
6:07 liD Grotto

1 50 1:55 1:58 '2:00 2:10 2:10 
6,11 MJ library2 22 2:35 2:38 2:40 2:47 2:50 '6:2!1 ca.apu~ View +6:35 liD Apts.
3 05 3:15 3:18 3:20 3:30 (1) "*6:45 NO 
Ubrary 
6:50 riD Haln Circle
4•Thickening or lump in breast or elsewhere. 

6:55 tiD Grotto NOTRE DAME -SA! NT MARY'S 7:00 SHC McCandless 
7:15 IUl library

SHUTTLE SERVICE 
7:30 SHC HcCandli!SS 7:4S NO llbr<ary
8•Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. t 

SATURDAY -SUNDAY 8:00 SMC HcCand less 
8;15 11D Ubrary 

8:30 SMC HcC..ndless (DAY) 8:45 NO library 
9,00 SXC '1cCandlessNO LIBRARY 9:15 UO library
SMC McCANDLESS
&,obvious change in wart or mole. 
9:30 SHC Mccandless 9:4S NO library
ARRIVE 

ARR JVE 10:00 SMC McCandless 10:1~ KO library lO:XI-11:00 8rea._
12:00 pm 

12: 15 pm 11:15 Iii library
7•Nagging cough or hoarseness. 

12:30 11:30 SMC McCandless
12:45 
ll:4~ Jl) Library
1:00 

1: 15 '12:00 c.-pu~ Y1ew 
1:30 -tl2:15 NO Apts.
1:45 
IZ:Zl rm Helin Circle
2:00 

2:15 U:2tl 110 Grotto 
12:)') Sf'£ McC.sndl£'!;s 12:4& MO l il!rary 

2:30 2:45 
3:00 3: 15 

~at_unl.!J 1-n~t Ytc lll<.(omdlf'S~{2) BREAK (4:00) 4:15 l:J', N[. l1brary 
3:30 (2) BREAK ( 3:45) . 
-.P-f. KtCandle~s

4:30 '.
4:45 \. L :;:; C>.JLto 5:00 5: 15 
•,[> ,...,,n tire. il' 
t.'j j!;·!~.
8.A fear of cancer that can prevent 
5:30 

5:4 5 0!""6•00 , ·-·r; 
······') :jll••
you from detecting cancer at an early stage. 

~.-it. Lln•VC>'"-<·f7 1/;l\"-'i:,e..._
Astage whenit is highly ~able. 

~'Jtlday -Fnd-"'"/, aftpr ::4~ r""l ~.. ;r.e-~ ardve .. u ~epart on the (jU~.trter l"iv.Jr ~ r. SMC and the hour and ha: f hour at I~J.
Everyone's afraid of cancer. but don't let 

it scare you to death. (2) )dturday, 3:30 until ~.15 Ult e ,111 be a lcnciLbreak. 

(JJ~l I: ! I ! i·!

NOTES: NO Stop5 -The shuttle wi 11 no longer lllake any stops at 
, JO •,NL Htl.olnlllt.s'#
' .• ;• (l.ty ~ ... ·'•'J

rheuwland-rlle bus will go directly to the from I(' .00 \HL Kt.C.•utdles~
·,.,i.u• .~.,'J· ~undd.Y of the library e'nct then proceed to the Main Circle ~ufll" !h1y 
2:0!1 '.oHL Mt.C<IMIPS'• 

It's route will be: 
~atur<J.Iy-:.t.onday 6-ll fil) Mdifl (irc.h Saturday-::»~.W~day 12:1~ HlJllbf"Uj
Grotto-LiDrary-f"ain Cricle-Grotto (day) )aturddy 1:.45 Jl) Llbrary Grotto-Main Circle-Library-Main Circle Grotto (evening) 
SMC Stops-The shuttle will not go to the Lel1ans Parking Lot. It will go directly to McCandless(stop sign), wait 
@ American Cancer Society 

a few minutes and continue on tc NO. It's route 
will be: Holy Cross-Regina-McCandless-Madeleva .
. 
••••••••••••••••w••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 

The Observer 
The OmhudsiDIDI .~ Action Express 0~ 
Q. How cold am I? 
A. Get just the time and temperature by calling First Bank's service: 234-7121. Fot a more thorough rundown, tty the Weatherline at 232-1121. Both operate 24 hours per day, so you can set your watch to the minute, and button up your overcoat. 
Q. How can I pull myself together to get a job? 

A. Even non-seniors may want to know about summer job opportunities or internships; and they'll need to organize their information as much as graduating seniors. The Placement Bureau, second floor of the Administration Building, is a good place to start. They provide a schedule of recruiters vistting campus; a standardized profile must be on file with the bureau for you to sign up for a place on the re~ar schedule of appointments. You can also get the COI.l.EGE PLACEMENT ANNUAL, a national directory for information and addresses of major employers. The manual has good examples of business letters and resumes, with sample interview questions. 
Need a paper typed? Want to go horseback riding? 
Call OBUD. Names, numbers, and prices are on file in our listing_of services. Ifyou have something to offer, call or stof by the office on second floor LaFortune to ftll out a card withal the information necessary, like dates and times 
Rugby Oub to tour Ireland in March 
by Shaun McCauley 

The 42-member Notte Dame Rugby Club will fly to Ireland March 10 for a fifteen day tour of that country's southern section. The trip wilJ represent the third Ireland excursion in the club's eighteen year history. 
The team wt.U engage in five rugby matches during their stay. The first two, scheduled at Trinity College in Dublin and Maynooth College will acq_uaint the athletes with the style of play typical among the student teams in Ireland. 
The team wi1l also compete against a dub team at Grey­stones, an Irish organization complete with their own club­house, devoted to preserving the an of ancient Gaelic sport. 
In competition against the Irish National team and another group sponsored by Tullamore, a com­pany which makes Irish Mist, the 
ruggers will  experience all  as­ 
pects  of  rugby society  in  the  
British Isles.  

Pan of the purpose of the trip is to combine valuable experience in rugby competition with expos­ure to the cultural offerings of Ireland, renowned for its beauty and friendly people, according to dub representattves. 
The sightseeing aspect of the tour includes some of the best 
Agency aims at gripes 
The Ombudsman Service is continuing the operation of the Complaints Agency in order to handle grievances filed by stu­dents. 
In its second year under the OBUD s~cial projects and ser· vice d.ivtsion, the investigative research of the OBUD Com­plaints Agency aims at improving cooperation and understanding between students and adminis· tration. 
The number to call is 6283. 
known l~dmarks in the small 
country. !tccording to Mike Roo­
han, the team will visit the cities 
of Guiness, limerick and Con­
sale. They will also see the 
famous Blarney Stone and the 
medievil Bunratty Castle, con­
veniently situated near a renown­
ed tavern called Dirty Nelly's. 
The visit also coincides with the greatest national cele­bration in Ireland-St. Patrick's Day. As ambassadors from the Unued States, the players wilJ march in the parade and parti cipate in the festivities which bring one-half of the country's population t? Dublin each year. 
The team 1S now conducnng a fund raisin~ raffle in which the first prize ts airfare for two to Ireland. Tickets can be pur­chased from any team member before the drawing, which will be held Saturday night at Corby's. 
Plans for the trip have been in the making since last summer when the team chose Ireland over other club tour choices at the suggestion of Fr. Paul Lavalle. Lavalle, a referee and part-time coach from last year, has returned to his native Ireland. 
LANNER 
N•w J.sut ~ 
n'" 
R•gulcu Prlc•s 
0 
;:liD all $7..98 LP's 
~ 
only $4.99 
all $8.98 LP's only $5.99 
Flann•t R•cotda 603 Flann•t phon• 4256 
mon-thurs 4:00·5:00 6:30-8:00 sun 6:30-8:00 

-----------~--­
Monday, January 29, 1979 • page 5 
SMC juniors hold nteeting to discuss events for semester 
by EJ/en Buddy Saint Mary's Editor 
The Junior Class of Saint Mary's lteld a meeting last ni~ht to discuss events for the Spnng semester. The f.1tst topic on the agenda concerned a letter that was sent to the mothers of all juniors about the Mother/ Daughter Weekend. 
It 1s scheduled for the weekend of Feb. 16, 17 and 18, according to Marie Bradley. Junior Oass president. The weekend will begin with registration on Friday afternoon between 1·5 p.m. in the main lobby of LeMans Hall. According to Margie Flavin, weekend coordinator, registta· cion .Packets will be provided conta.tning a detailed list of events and suggestions of res­taurants in the South Bend area. That same evening at 9 p.m., a wine and cheese coctail party will be held in Stapleton Lounge. 
The main event for Saturday is a five hour shopping spree in Chicago's Water Tower Place. Transportation by bus will be provided to and from Chicago. Departure time and place will be announced in the registration packets. No scheduled events are planned for Saturday night. 
A special mass for the mothers 

is planned for Sunday followed by 
a  noon  brunch.  the mass  will  
include  the  blessing  of  the  
juniors' class rings.  
A  cost  of  $20  covers  the  

cocktail party, bus to Chicago and the brunch for both mother and daughter. Bradley said brothers and sisters are also welcome to take part. In this case, a total of $7. 50 per child for the bus to Chicago would have to be added as well as payment at the door for Sunday's brunch. 
"I would like to encourage participation in .the hopes of establishing the MotherI Daughter weekend as a tradition of the Junior Class at Saint Mary's,' Bradley said. 
Bradley also pointed out that if any members of the class of 1980 had sophomore standing last semester due to lack of credits, their mother would not have received a letter because they were sent from the Registrar's Office. She asked that students contact her at 4608 for more information. 
Information concerning class T-shirts was provided by Mary Lynn Spittler, class secretary. The ordering ofT-shirts will be done throught the hall represen­tatives and a down payment will be necessary to insure a shirt. 
] uniors will receive more infor­mation in a letter at a later date. 
Other events for this semester include a Ground Hog's Day party on Saturday, Feb. 3 at Guiseppe's between 9 p.m.-2 
a.m. A $2 cover charge Will be charged for all the beer you can drink. Another event in the near future is a class mass and dinner. According to Elaine Belle, vice president, this is scheduled for Monday, Feb. 5 at 4:30. More details concerning this will be released later. 
**************** 
COSimO 
IS PQOUb tO lntROOUC€ hiS new€st han~ b€s1c;n€R 
Sally 
ple.as€ call roR an appt, 
277·187; 
18461 stat€ Rb 23 
*************** 

HE HAS SEEN THE NUCLEAR NAVY 

MIKE MACDONALD can answer questions you may have concerning today 's Nuclear propulsion Navy. As a commissioned Nuclear Navy Officer there will be opportunities you will not get in private Industry. 
For more info contact Mike at 415 Grace Hall or call collect. (312) 657-2169 




Editorials 
Viewpoints in summary 
Brian Hogan's recently published article "Sex and Equality: N.D.'s Virgin Territory" (O!Jserver, Tuesday, Jan. 23) diew a multitude of letters and columns in response--38 to be exact. Limitations of space dictated that not all the responses could be printed. I attempted to publish letters which provided a crosssection of viewpoints on the issue of sexual equality. Because it was possible to print only a few letters, perhaps a summary of the viewpoints is necessary. 
The major argument against Hogan's case dealt with the element of Choice introduced by the so called sexual liberation. Underlying this statement is the difference between male and female sexuality. While the fashionable image of today's American male is basically macho, the image of the modem female is, both feminine and career-oriented, even if the career is a traditional one. In a selective school such as Notre Dame, women are responsible for their action, and an intelligent woman considers both the act and its possitile consequences in making her choice. These consequences include the emotional impact of a sexual relationship on a young woman. 
The Notre Dame male, however, also has a choice to make. Responses indicate that many men resent the assumption that they are either non-virgins or frustrated. They, too, recognize the difference between sex and love, their responsibility in making a decision, and the error of assuming love is impossible without sexual relations. 
Members of both sexes confirm Hogan's belief that the Catholic backround of students contributes to the high rate of virginity on the Notre Dame campus. However, they also insist that this backround was shared by both men an<! women. In addition, some students argue that while they were taught about the Church's stand on pre-marital sex, it is by choice that they followed these rulings. 
The majority of student responses agree that circumstances at Notre Dame exist which hamper the development of male-female rela­tionsbips. But, they insist that it is the responsibility ofboth the men and the women to either correct or ignore these circumstances. If parietals create a feeling of uneasiness and unnaturalness about developing an emotional relationshiJ? with a member of the opposite sex, the person mvolved must build confidence in his or her ability to relate to others. If a man is intimidated because a woman's GPA and SAT scores are higher than his, he must realize that intelligence is not always accurately represented by numbers and that he can not allow himself to be intimidated by this. 
In shon, four main words punched ~1oles in Ho~an's argument: responsibility, respect, choice and cooperation. It is the consensus of the letters that in these words lies the key to equality of the sexes at Notre Dame. 
It is interesting to note the change in attitudes from two years ago when a similar situation arose. Twice during the school year of 1976-77, confrontations between men and women were staned by arbitrary statements. At those times, the situation divided the campus into a battle of the sexes. While some students were amused that slight comments resulted in a heated argument, others became defensive and resent­ful. Although Hogan's opinions resulted in a few passionate character assassinations, the majority of the responses recognized its unfair­ness to both sexes. Male-female relations at Notre Dame .have definitely improved since the days when men and women reduced each other to chemical equations. 
Rosemary Mills Etlitorial Etlitor 


P. O.BoxQ 

Oleerleaders lead spirit 
Dear Editor: rf, 
I am writing in response to the story submitted byFrank LaGrotta in the January 24th issue of the Observer. Mr. LaGrotta appar_endy feels that we as student body are failing and that the cheerleaders are big contributors to this lack of stu­dent spirit that he says is widely known throu~hout the world. 
I will admit that the last time that I saw anythin~ like the Notre Dame-San Franc1Sco basketball two years ago was two years ago ath the Notre Dame-San Francisco game. And I recognize the fact that we are the number one team this year. But, every game is NOT a BIG game. Every game IS an IMPORTANT game and it is a must that we win every one of them. However, I believe that the students expect the team to win if they are number one, if they are playing an unraed team, and above all, they do not expect to have to stand and scream and s~out their lungs ou~ for fo.rty mtnutes to see them wm. I think that there are times when the student body would like to sit down in their payed-for seats and just watch the talent that makes our team number one. 
In response to Mr. LaGrotta's statement about the cheer­leaders: Exactly what does he want us to do during time outs? We are chosen, first of all, on the basis of our display of enthu­siasm and school sprrit. But we don't attend long practices to lear to yell. Look around at other schools and tell me what their cheerleaders do during time outs. 
If Mr. LaGrotta looked close enough at the squad that repre­sents him, he'd see that we do a lot more than run to center court to build pyramids. If he'd listen every now and then, he'd realize that we're not the quiet little mice that he thinks we are. Yes, we actually chant. Even though the crowd mav not ioin in, we haven't yet ·stopped yelling simply because our team is way ahead. 
As a ftnal note, I'd like to add that the Notre Dame cheerlead­ing squad receives compliments every day for not only the pyramids that we build, or the partner stunts that we do, or for anything else that we do, but we are also acknowledged for our continuance to cheer when the team is ahead by thirty points and the student body wants to watch the game for awhile. And if he doesn't believe that we are doing our job right, he can put on a cheerleading uniform, come and join us, and perhaps he can adjust the situation to his own liking. 
(N.D. Cheerleader Co-Captain) 
Phyllis Washzngton 
No apologies necessary 
Dear Editor: 
"On behalf of the student body,'' Coach Digger Phelps was quoted as having said, ''I just want to apologize to Fordham.'' But it is not Coach Phelps' iob or prerogative to speak for ·a body to which he does not belong. 
During the South Carolina game, Cedrick Hordges delivered a clean, but resounding foul which drove Orlando Woolridge to the ground, and which led a number of Irish fans to respond by "booing" Hordges every time he touched the ball. Hordges did not mean to hurt Woolridge; nor were these occasional "boos" meant to hurt Hordges. Those who "booed" may have hoped that their efforts might get Hordges thinking about what a mean and rotten thin~ he'd done, but judging by his 19 point performance, Hordges was not diverted. 
During the Fordham game, a number of students were taken by the striking physique of Fordham's Dud Tongal. Athletes of his tall, and especially lean dimensions seldom perform re­spectably against teams as good as the Irish, but T ongal did so as he displayed unexpected grace and a soft jump shot. He did not need protection that Coach Phelps seemed to want to give him. The occasional chant of "Dude!" was not meant to drive Tongal to the sidelines; it may have been meant to remind him. of his striking physique, but I'm sure that, by this time, he's well aware of it. 
What I mean to say is this: If apologies are in order, (and I don't believe they are) it is not for Coach Phelps to make them. 
Continued success to the Irish Basketball Team, to Coach Phelps, and to the student body to which I am proud to belong. 
Skip Livingston 

Monday, January 29, 1979 -page 6 DOONESBURY 
Garry Trudeau 



Dick and Teng 
art buchwald 

W 1\.SHINGTON--Before anyone gets too excited about ex­president Richard Nixon being mvited to dinner at the White House, I would like to point out that Vice-Premier Teng requested to see him,· and therefore the decision was not President Caner's alone. 
No one knows what Nixon and Teng will talk about, but· I'm going to guess. 
NIXON: Mr. Vice-Premier, is it true that you were one of the leadin~ political figures of the People s Republic and then you were downgraded and sent mto exile? 
1ENG: That is true. The Gang of Four ganged up on me and told Mao I was a counter­revolutionary-running­capitalist dog. I was in utter disgrace. 
NIXON: I know the feeling. How much did you get for your memoirs? 
1ENG: Nothing. My name was not permitted to be men­tioned in the press. The ·only place you coula read about me was on wall posters which vilified me morning, noon and night. 
NIXON: What about tele­vision? Did David Frost do a series of interviews with you? 
TENG: I tell you I was a non-person. Mao hated me as did the students and the peasants and the factory workers. The Eastern establish ment Peking media would not write one word of truth about me. 
Sex artlicle 
. . 
wms pnze 
Dear Editor: 
I've not seen a more chauvinist article than Brian Hogan's "Sex and Equality: NO's Virgin Territory. " It might also take a prize for looseness of argument and base impressionism. Or is it meant to be ironic? 
Donald Sniegowski 
NIXON: You mean you went through all that hell and didn't make a dime on it? For heaven's sake. Why didn't you get a literary agent? 
TENG: You don't seem to 
understand, Mr. President. In 
China when you are forced to 
leave office you give up all 
literary and theatrical rights to 
your alleged crimes. Even your 
forced confession Is considered 
in the public domain. You can't 
get 10 yuan for it. 
NIXON: I never heard of 
anything like that. All of us in 
public life make mistakes, but 
we should be compensated or 
we'll never learn from them. 
TENG: Mao never saw it that 
way. Once you were on his 
enemies list you couldn't do 
anything right as far as he was 
concerned. He had 2 million 
people in Peking screaming for 
my head because I opposed the 
Cultural Revolution. f managed 
to hide out until the heat blew 
over, but it was close. 
-NIXON: Didn't they give you 
a secretary, an office and Secret 
Service men when they forced 
you to resign? 
TENG: You have to be joking. I was lucky they didn't have me pulling a J>low. Do you mean to say that after you were disgraced they provided you with a staff? 
NIXON: It wasn't a large staff.. I still had to pay for my own golf caddy. 
TENG: Well, it's all water under the bridge. Here we are--both of us at the White House, not only rehabilitated and back in power but oncr. again loved by our respective peoples. 
NIXON: I'm not exactly back in power yet, though they did name a recreation center after me in Kentucky not long ago. 
TENG: Ah, yes. Then it should be only a matter of time before you get back at the people who dtd you in. 
NIXON: Frankly, I haven't given it a thought. They can say they want to about Nixon, but he never holds a grudge. It's all in my book. 
[c] 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

The Observer -Editorials Monday, January 29, 1979 -page 7 
P. 0. Box Q 
tory relationships with women, 

admit that.. .love without sex isWhat is physical or otherwise, they'll definitely the most boring.''
have to learn how to communi­Obviously Mr. Hogan knows cate with them. 

little of love if he thinks that,sexual freedom? The implication that women without certain forms of physi­
will never be taken seriously 
cal expression, it lacks excite­

Dear Editor: unless they begin engaging in some
ment. Granted, peopleRe: Sex and Equality: NO's indiscriminate sexual relations is are involved in relationshtps

Vtcgin Territory, f must admit simply ludicrous and Hogan's where "I love you" means little 
that I agree with some of Brian claim that the bedroom is ''where more than "I like your body",Hogan's remarks--approximately the most important male-female and to such cases his generali­
.00~%. interactions take place" is pre­zation would be quite applic­
The pan that says " ... sexual cisely the mentality which subju­able. But to claim that love freedom and social equality go gated women in the first place. itself relies on sex to make it together'' is perfectly true. And In closing, I would like to thank exciting is totally absurd. what is sexual freedom? Free­Hogan for absolving the NO Although sex can be, and quite dom to choose what is best for women when he calls virginio/ often is, an expression of love, 
oneself. As Hogan pointed out, ''no crime in itself.'' The guilt it is in no way the only NO women are of above average was really keeping me awake expression oflove. Love can be intelligence. They are perfectly nights. manifested a thousand differ­free to decide what sort of sexual Betsy SpineUi ent ways of giving, caring, habits are appropitate, parietals trusting, ...and the list could go and du Lac regualtions notwith­on and on. I know of many standing. Funhermore, I don't Not a moral people, myself included, who see too many NO co-eds demand­have found love without sex to 
ing "salvation" in the form of a be exciting. Inded, no marriage freer sexual atmosphere. condemnation would last more than twenty or Could it be that the presu­thirty years ifcouples depended medly archaic morality of NO Dear Editor; entirely on sex to express their females is not the problem? Is it love. If Mr. Hogan feels that he remotely possible that the males This is a response to Brian cannot experience an exciting
just don't have what the females Hoga,n's article entitled "Sex love without sex, then I truly are looking for? Too many NO and Equality: ND's Virgin pity him. males grew up without ever Territory" in the .1 anuary 23 Mr. Hogan further states viewing their female peers as issue of the Observer that, if women are sociallyhuman beings. Can you blame a Before I begin, let me make it inferior, it is because they have woman for hesitatin~ to become clear that it is not my intention not sexually liberated them­intimately involved wtth someone to condemn anyone's morals, selves. Are we to infer from who has so little understanding of nor do I wish to impose mine this, as Mr. Hogan has clearly the opposite sex? upon others. The reason I feel implied, that mer, if they are 
An upsur~e in sexual activity compelled to write is that Mr. socially superior, are so be­would detirutely not remedy the Hogan has made some unfair cause they have sexually liber­social situation here. Before generalizations, as well as ated themselves? If M.·. Hogan Hogan, and whatever following unsound conclusions. is serious about this, he has he may have, can have satisfac-Mr. Hogan says, "we have to extended an insult to millions of 
Article response ,' Pros and Cons 
Your anicle in last Tuesday's Observer, "Sex 
and Equality: NO's Virgin Territory," deserves 
responses from both men and women interested in 
improving human relationships at NO. I agree with 
many of your perc~ptive observ~tions: that £?e 
predominant Cathohc (a conservauve, male-domtn­
ated institution) backround of most students here 
hinders fruitful male-female interaction, as do the 
University's regulations; that many persons con­
fuse sex and making love; that sexual restraint has 
often coincided with political and social inequality; 
that those who desire change should act for lt; that 
we do need to chanfe attitudes in order to change 
laws. Although believe these observati~ns 
pertinent and correct, you make several others wtth 
which I must disagree. 
First of all, you say that sex without love "may not be the best'' without admitting that it can be one of the most violent, aggressive and deh~z­ing acts a person can perform. You also clatm that love without sex is "definitely the most boring." Certainly you don't mean to say that your love for God, your parents, your siblings, Y?ur male friends, is boring because you don't e.OJOY sexual relations with them. However, even if I assume you mean love for a female peer, I'm sure productive, fun, exciting intimacy can exist without sex. 
You assert, "sex is fun." It definitely can be, but even in a relationship characterized by mutual knowledge, tenderness, care, and responsibility, sex can be physically painful (or just borms). Most lovers find they must invest a lot of ttme and energy to develop the trust and familiarity necessary for a mutUally satisfying sexual relation­ship. 
You suggest that we change attitudes in "the bedroom where the most important male-female interacti~ns take place.'' You f~llow this state~ent with a remark that women wdl never be taken seriously if they don't act like they're equal. I fear this means that you won't consider a woman your political and social equal until she goes to bed with you or gives good reasons not to. Doesn't "sexual liberation'' or ''freedom'' include the right to say "no" (for any reason) and not feel suilty? 
Finally, you begin your anicle asking ''what can we do ?'' and conclude with advice to women only. You mention several destructive male mindsets, but then reduce the whole problem of sexuality to a question of female virginity. 
There are several other considerations relevant to our sexual problems at NO. Beauty (although it also seems to intimidate many men) is still a commonly accepted standard of a woman's value, and many men still refuse to accept women as social equals, both inside and outside of NO. Group (or section) loyalty and immaturity also hinder beneficial male-female relationships, as, of course, do the ratio, parietals and academic pressure. From a woman s point of view, there are also legitimate fears ofpregnancy (not even the Pill always works), venereal disease, and rape (since the average man can fairly easily overpower the average woman). 
Perhaps if we all open our beans to the needs of our fellow students, we can improve the value of all interpersonal relationshiP.s; yet, I doubt they'll ever be satisfactory unttl another generation of administrators has the courage to accept more women into the University and to chan~e NO's archaic and destructive concepts like 'in loco parentis" (where freshmen have almost the same freedoms . and responsibilities as seniors), parie­tals, and segregated dormitories. 
I welcome and encourage all responsses to this letter aimed at producing understanding, either publicly or directly addressed to me. 
Kathenne Bain 

Christian males who abstain from pre-marital sex. And as if that weren't enough, he goes on to conclude that women are 
to  blame  for  their  situation  
because  they  aren't  promis­ 
cuous enough!  

Let me repeat that I am not condemning Mr. Hogan's, or anyone's, morals; rather, m}' protest is against his unfair and unsound generalizations and conclusions. Mr. Hogan, I truly hope that you do not believe in what you wrote; if so, then you have my apologies; if not, you have my ptty. 
George M. Wilmes 
DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 


Article lacks 
supportive 
evidence 
Dear Editor: 
Brian Hogan wrote a Features anicle a few days ago in which he presented a very disorl{anized argument in hopes of provtng the connection between sexual free­dom and social equality for women. In his attempt, he included many of his misconcep­tions about sex, love, and marri­~· Due to the great number of faJlacies in Mr. Hogan's presen­tation, it would be a waste of time to attack them all. 
The author's main point (the interdependence of sexual free­
, dom and social equality) failed to take on any meaning because of his lack of supportive evidence. A social psychology student knows that demonstratinll a cor­relation between two social atti­tudes or situations does not prove that they have any casual connec­tions. Yet Mr. Hogan uses historical coincidence several times to "prove" his point and thereby fails to accomplish any­thing. Sexual freedom has something to do with equality but it is only one of many factors and certainly not the ftcSt one a woman should concern herself with. Mr. Hogan's argument may be laughable but his attitudes are not. His ideas of sex and love appear to be very immature and shallow. Sex is the manifestation of love (a deep personal relation­ship) not some cheap game that exists for pleasure as Mr. Hogan would bave us believe. We possess nothing that is more personal than our sexuality and to sell it short ("sex if fun") is a great injustice to ourselves. Besides, just because something is gratifymg does not mean that we should do it. As for marriage, it provides a foundation of committment and responsibility that a good rela­tionship can build upon. Marri­age consummates the love two individuals have for each other. 
. Hogan suggests that people are animals seeking pleasure. We are not. We are complex psychological and spiritual bemgs who need to be wanted and loved. Although our physical interactions play a big pan m our lives, it is our spiritual interac­tions that make us people. As human beings we are constantly dealing with different mentalities not just physical shells. It is the emotional effects of a relation­s~_p that have the most lasting effect not the physical ones. Mr. Hogan would not know that because he has apparently not ~rienced a fulftlling relation­ship with a girl. To use his own words: " ... a strong feeling ofinsecurity on the pan of many women brought on by the inability of some ND men to distinguish between having sex and making love." Mr. Hogan has obvtously not dis­covered the difference and there­fore is contributing to the pro­blem he wishes to attack. Don Ginocchio 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD 

reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Rtly 0 'Brien Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calculi Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Ulnght:Jls Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnslian The Obseroer is an independent news?a· letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary s per published by students of t.he Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cacltf_el Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Samt bers of the community, and the free Satnt Mary's Editor ...... FJien Buddy Business Manager ........ John Tucker Mary's College. 1£ does not ne~essru_-ily expression of varying opinions on cam· News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the admimstranon pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer_ of 
----~--~-----------·---------­
r 
Monday, January 29, 1979-page 8 


Features 
Social Concern Film Series 

Awareness To Action: The Need Is Now 
Mary Monnat  
So here I  am  once  again nestled  application of the values and insi~hts  Indeed we will cringe when a feature  schemes o' mice and  men  gang aft  
beneath the golden dome.  On the  inherent in that learning.  There ts a  ftlm  of  2010  depicts  life  in  the  a-gley,"  but  all  too  often  I  have  
brink of the new semester I totter. This is a time of apprehension. Will I  conscious effort to bring social issues to light1 here at Notre Dame--an effort  outrageous and tumultuous seventies. Our children will appeal to us with  experienced this exciting feeling that "this semester things will be differ­ 
lunge forward in an optimistic drive to correct the mistakes of semesters gone by or will I undergo once more that slow but sure metamorphisis into that apathetic monster I so despise? It is as if I were upon a tight rope, suspended in mid-air and ever wob~l­ing. I know all too well what lies ahead; those mounting pressures which seem to come hand in hand with the progression of the academic semester. Yet, somehow I know these pressures can be overcome if only I could ftnd some purpose, some direc­tion in my life beyond the realm of "academic progress" and extending into the expanse of human experience. 1 know I am not alone in my struggle o  which goes beyond the daily journal­istic accounts of the mass-slayings, political upheavals, and racial injus­tices bedecking every front page from here to Tucumcari. Programs such as the Social Aware­ness film series and "the Third World ftlm series venture further than the mere recording of the facts. They invoke reflection and call for action. They emphasize man's inhumanity to man and reveal the startling truths of the human condition. These are precarious times. One can no longer cling to the Horatio Alger myth of days past. Optimism has ~iven way to passivism. Society conttnues to become more corrupt and disillusioning with every fleeting  cries of "is that really how it was?" It is no longer a question of telling it like it was and that is what is frightening-­it is like it is and will continue to be, if society continues along this line of apathy. Mere awareness of the predicament does not resolve the conflict. Action is the catalyst re­quired to righting social wrong and improving the human condition. There are i-nnumerable outlets for ventin~ our desire to help restore humantty to a level of respect and dignity. Involvement in organizatio.ns such as Urban Plunge and Commuruty Service are a defmite beginning along the path which leads to a better world, yet one need not even go so far as there structured plans of action. No,  ent" only to ftnd come ftnals week that all I have to show for the past four months is a warped conception of life beyond the golden dome and a weary body in need of a good recharging before life beyond the dome can even be undertaken. It does not have to be that way. We all know it, so why then do we let it happen? Passivism and procrastina­tion eventually give rise to apathy and alienation. Each time you say ''well I would voice my opinion, but someone else will handle it" or "I would like to help, but I have this paper to do," each time you as an individual fail to follow through on an issue you feel strongly about you detain the whole group. The whole is a sum of its total parts,  
to surpass the barriers of too  much  moment that you let that "idealistic"  the  process  begins  with  you  the  and you as a part of this university, 
academics and not  enough practical  notion to take action pass you by.  indivtdual  on  a  personal level:  the  and more encomassing as a contribut­ 
mere lending of a needed ear or hand  ing element to the human condition,  
to a friend, that is where it begins.  are an active and deciding factor in  
what lies ahead for this society.  The.  



Perhaps I am simply the victim of time to act is now, before now gives negative conditioning=·"the best laid way to tomorrow! 
Billboard's Top Ten 
Here are the top record hits as listed Top LPs in Billboard magazine: ,.,. • 1. "BnefCase Full ofBlues" Blues
1
-' op szng~es Brothers (Atlantic) "Le F: L" Chi (A 1 · 2. "Blondes Have More Fun" Rod 
1. rea" c t anttc) Stewart (Warner Bros ) 
2. 
"Too Much Heaven" Bee Gees 3. "J2nd Street" Billy Joel (Colum­(RSO) bia) 

3. 
"Y.M.C.A." Village People 4. "You Don't Erin~ Me Flowers" (Casablanca) Neil Diamond (Columbta) 


4. "Do you think I'm Sexy" Rod 5. "Greatest Hits, Vol. IF' Barbra Stew~t (W~~f B_ros.) . Streisand (Columbia)
5. My Life Billy Joel (Columbta) h • JA . )
c-1

6 "A Little More Love" ·Olivia 6. "C'Est C ic" Chtc ( t anttc Ne~ton-John (MCA) • 7. "The Best of Earth, Wind and 
7. "Ooh Ba6y Baby" Linda F~·re" Earth, Wind and Fire (Colum-Ronstadt (Asylum) bta) , . , , · . 
8. "Hold The Line" Toto (Colum-8: 'Greatest Hzts Barry Mantlow 
bia) (Ansta) 
9. "Every 1's a Winner" Hot 9. . "Double Vision" Foreigner Chocolate (Infinity) (Atlanttc).. . . ,,
TJ.Ir-s MUS'r lSE ~ ~~~ ~M 

10. "September" Earth, Wind and 10. Crutstn Vil1age People Fire (Hrc) (Casablanca)
-liAM~-n:. t::t:>A H ·•• 

Stalking The Elusive Education 
Anthony Walton 
Our current views on edu­(and able) youngster learn from labor force. These college easily be incorporated into in-I realize these views are cation are indicative of the the master-That is how the ~raduates could then be trained dustry as a whole. The quality utopian. But the possibilities of attitude of the television so "trades" should be passed to their respective ftelds by of minds might be better also. what might happen in such an society. One can now see along. th~ir employers. The employees would have ' educational system are very everything that he does not In our current educational The employer should educate been exposed to a much broad-intriguing. Might there be have and everywhere that he set-up, this is an economic the hiree anyway, since the er curriculum in school, provi-another Renaissance, a new has not been, and is stimulated impossibility. An entire re-employer is who will be enjoy­ding more opportunities for Golden Age of human though, to get these things and go these vamping of the system would ing the fruits of these skills. · thought and analyzation. Give spurred on by a multi-talented places. A college education is be necessary to implement The graduates would have gain­the mind a chance to grow and group ofgreat thinkers? I am of not viewed as an artistic and these changes. But it could be ed the valuabe experience of create. Let the young flower th · · h th h
bloom and breathe before fore-e optruon t at ere aveintellectual awakening, but done. Why not condense learning on the job, and would been no great American think­
rather as a vehicle in which one elementary and secondary edu-still basically be acquiring the ing it into the role of a ers, such as Kierkegaard, Des-can acquire the highest level cation into nine or ten years skills at the same a~e as in the carnation. Water and nuture it, cartes, or Einstien. · skills to get more money to get . instead of twelv~? The U.S. is present system. Thts would not and it will be that much more things. the only country In the world ~o _upset the economy too much prettier. (Not~: Althou~h Ein­
have such a lengthy baste b-. · . · 1 wonder how many possibly stien worked in Amenca, he
The colfege has taken on the' education. • ecause tt ts mtere~tmg to note sensitive or great throughts are was not educated here.) Mightair of the vocational school, but : The system could be modeled that many compa_ntes do ~orne­

lost to the manipulations of a it be because of the Americanwith a much higher price. along the lines of the British what the same thtng now m the subliminal marketing theory, or educational system? It is some­
Learning to become an accoun­system. Mter basic education, presen~ system. For example, the . machinations of a FOR · what like what Socrates said.

tant is much the same as qualifted students culd continue Caterpillar Tractor Company TRAN computer process. The more I 'know' the more I
learning to become a carpenter. 

on to college, and others could se~d~ all new employees to These things have their places; realize how much 1 don't know. College should not be the place go to vocational and technical trammg school, and the':! has a college of higher learnmg, or The commercial says a mind is to do either. Apprentice ~n school. It could be of four -the new employee work wtth an perhaps that should be amen-a terrible thing to waste. I thin!( accountant as a carperuer ts or ftve years in length, and then experienced employee for a ded to a college of higher to waste an education is even apprenticed. Let the willing. graduates could enter the · period of time. This could thought is not the place. worse. 

The Observer Monday, January 29, 1979 ·page 9 
WHC appeals to· students 
Commission to reconsider program 
plans events 
by Mat!reen Heraty semester's figures. Dunbar attributes the drop in 
The Saint Mary's Social Com­Due to a lack of student participants to politics and the mission met last night to discussresponse last semester, the Notre students' confuston of where the the a&enda for this semester.

lY.une World Hunger Coalition money comes from and where it A htgh priority on the Commis­(WHQ is making another appeal 
goes~ 
sion's list was the Valentine's to the Notre Dame commumty by "Politics have bften clouded by Day semi-formal co-sponsoredredistributing fasting program real situation," Dunbar saiq. with the Notre Dame Socialsign-up sheets Wednesday at Commission for Feb. 14. Tht'''The students see the thirddinner. 

theme is "Screw Your Room­world countries which the coali­The WHC's initial sign up as a mate,'' the gimmick being to flx a ·tion aids, in terms of capital, not"disappointment" and hopes to roommate up with a date for thepeople. They blame the countryrecruit more fasters for the evening. The purpose is to bringor corporations for draining thesecond semester. Students must students out to Mardi Grascountry's capital and squander­hand in their sheets by Thursday. 

during the middle of the week asing it."

There has been a substantial a break from studying and toAccording to Dunbar, studentsdecline of fasters in recent sem­celebrate Valentine's Day. Thefeel that the political situationesters. At one time, the program place and the band have not yetshould be amended. ''Thehad nearly 1,000 participants, but been decided upon. 
students do not realize, though,last semester approximately 500 Also discussed were plans forthat until the situation isstudents fasted. 

the Snow Sculpture Contest setamended people will still starve"Ifyou drop 100 people during for Feb. 22 between all the dorms and need help."

one semester, it doesn't seem at Notre Darne and Saint Mary's. 
The dining halls give thelike much," John Dunbar, a The annual Gong Show atcoalition $. 75 for every studentcoordinator of the WHC, explain­Guiseppi's has been tentativelythat has fasted throughout theed. "But if you drop 100 people set for March 10. According tosemester. The Hunger Coalition each semester, in five semesters Christie Jones, social c.ommis­

receives about 60 percent of theirit means 500 people." 

sioner, "It is a guaranteed good money from the students whoThis semester only 200 stu­have fasted. time because of its reputationdents signed up and this repre­from last year. '' sents a $2,700 loss from last 





ItSdifferentthingstodifferentpeople 
• • • 0-C 

[con#nued from page 4] a student corporation to buy, restore and rent housing, the organization of boycotts of poor 
housing if it exists, and the establishment of a landlord­student association to solve mu­tual problems. 
Fitzpatrick's reaction to the figures in the report was that ''The frequencies of burglaries in zones 6 and 10 are awfully high--cause for concern.'' 
"Students make up a transient component of the community,'' Fitzpatrick observed. "Because of the high turnover students are hard to organize and don't have a very strong political community
. .. 
VOICe. 
Commenting on D'Antonio's str~ on the education of stu­dents,' Fitzpatrick pointed out that the off-campus newsletter has had sections on safety. ''There will be additional work on that area," Fitzpatrick added. "You always have to be remind­ing people." 
Fitzpatrick also noted that the University could take a more active role in community affairs. 
Sr. Council to meet 
The Senior Class Advisory Council will meet at 6:~0 p.m. tomorrow evening in the LaFortune uttle Theatre Plans for Senior Month will be dis­cussed and the committee to coordinate the month's actiV.ities will be formed. All advrsory council members are required to attend, and others interested in working on the Senior Month are wckomt". 
Lucas delays lecture 
Jerry Lucas, former NBA star and co-author of The Memory Book., has postponed his lecture/ workshop efltitled "Building a Better M<·mory'' to a later date in February. 
Of course, most of the employees at the National Security Agency have certain things in common: they are civilians employed by the Department of Defense; they are engaged in projects vital to our country's communications security and intelligence production; and they all enjoy the benefits that accompany Federal employment. However, the differences between our career opportunities are just as interesting as their similarities. For example... 
TO THE ELECTRONIC ENGINEER (BS/MS): An NSA career means delving into unique projects which can span every phase of the R&D cycle. An engineer may design, develop. test and manage contracts on communications, recording, and information storage devices and systems whose capacities and speeds are still considered futuristic in most quarters. 
TO THE COMPUTER SCIENTIST (BS/MS): It means applying his or her knowledge in a wide range of sub-disciplines such as systems design, systems pro­gramming, operating systems, computer applications analysis, and retrieval systems. 

TO THE MATHEMATICIAN (MS): A career means defining, formulating, and solving complex communi­cations-related problems. Statistical mathematics, matrix algebra and' combinatorial analysis are just a few of the tools applied by the NSA mathematician. 
TO THE LINGUIST (BA/MA/D): A career consists of transcribing, translating, and perhaps conducting analysis and documentation projects. Slavic, Mid­Eastern, and Asian language majors can expect chal­lenging assignments and continuing self-development. 
Interested in learning more about the diffetence In an NSA career? Schedule an interview with us through your Student Placement Office today. 
U.S. Citizenship is required. 
NATIONAL SECUHITY AGENCY Attn: M:-121 Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755 
An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f 

The Observer -Sports Monday, January 29, 1979-page 10 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 

The Irish icers and basketball team weren't the only ones with away ~ames this weekend. Notre Dame s swim team was also on the road for two meets and they too came home with a split. 
The weekend got off to an excellent start as the Irish de­molished host Northern Illinois 61-29. Notre Dame won nine of the 13 events. Everyone got a finger in the pie as 13 swimmers either won their individual events or were on a 1st place relay team. Double winners included team captainJohn Nolan and freshman• John Gtbbons. Nolan swam the third leg of the 400-year medley relay and the second leg of the 400-yard freestyle relay. Gibbons won the 200-yard back­stroke with a time of 2:11.3. He also swam the first leg of the 400-yard medley relay. 

Saturday night wasn't as suc­cessful for the tankers. Mter traveling almost a hundred mil ;s from Dekalb to Peoria, Ill. the tired Irish took on Bradley on Saturday afternoon, and as Coach Dennis Stark put it, "We were just out of it.'' The host team clobbered the Irish, 78-35. 
There was little to cheer about after the meet with Bradley except for the performance of freshman Michael Hilger, who set a new varsity record in the 1000-yard freestyle, with a time of10:18.1, 2/IOofasecondfaster than the mark set last season by John Komora. The only other 1st place finisher for the Irish was Komora, who swam the 50-yard freestyle in 22:4 seconds. 
The return trip to South Bend was not without excitement. Ice and snow contributed to the extremely hazerdous driving conditions which caused the team to be almost five hours late arriving. "We were lucky to get back," said Stark. "We did a 360 on I-294. We came out of it without anyone running into us. I'd say we really lucked out." The team finally arrived at 4:00 a.m. 
The swimmers will try to improve on their 2-3 record on Thursday in London, Ontario, when they take on Western Ontario University. Their next home meet will not be until February lOth when they host Marshall at 2:00 p.m. 
B-ball box score 
Maryland 167]--Manning 4 1-1 9, King 4 o-o 8, Gibson 4 3-3 11, Graham 13 2-2 28 Williams 3 0-D 6, Jackson 2 Q-0 4, Morley 0 0-0 0, Henderson 0 0-0 0, Bilney 0 1-2 1. 
Notra Dama [66]-Woolridge 5 o-o 10 Tripucka 44-612, Laimbeer 20-0 4, Branning 3 o-o 6, Hanzlik 2 o-o 4, Jackson 8 0-0 16, Flowers 4 2-2 10, Wilcox 0 2-3 2, Mitchell 1 0-0 2. 

Swimmers split away meets 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 




-· -­
• THEIR OWN HOTHERS­
-·--·­


• • • Irish y 

wotnen 
[continued from page 12) 
Notre Dame's offense was too quick for Saint Mary's zone defense which left the area under the basket open for McManus and forward Pat Meyer to score. Dominating the boards, McManus and Meyer easily tipped in points to put the Irish ahead by 10 with seven minutes remaining in the first half. 
Scoring from the floor was 

21. -out, allot 
22. 
Roundabuut 

23. 
Hanct.l'a 


c

"ll••lllh," 
lor one 
R 

24. Oula fruit 
26. Clear 
0 

26. 
Party-liven 

27. 
Sehool book 


s 

29. Echo 
31. Mother-of­
s 

pearl 
w

33. Poet Sand­
llw1r 
0

34. Small rodent 
36. Helnw pro-
R 

pllet 
D

M.T­
37. Whiripool 31.Ahandful 
s 
·Friday's Answers 
.­
back-to-back in the last few minutes of the half but SMC' s numerous fouls put the Irish at the foul line too often. ND scored 12 points in free throws during the first half while SMC only scored four from the charity line. This same problem occurred in die second llalf enabling the Irish 
to score an extra 10 pomts. 
The Irish juniped our in front again in the last two minutes of the first half as guard Molly Cashman took advantage of ND' s fast break to score three unan­swered baskets putting the Irish ahead, 36-18, at half-tune. 
The second half was not as 
tense as the first half. Both 
teams were more offensively 
confident-although turnovers 
were still numerous. The Belles 
began to score from the outside 
as Nancy Nowalk hit two consecu­
tive 10 shots from the outside. 
Saint Mary's switched to a 
man-to-man defense, as did the 
Irish, and Notre Dame proved to 
be the beter team. Missy 
Conboy, Meyer and McManus 
took advantage of the Belle's 
slow defense and were left open 
underneath the basket to put ND ·way in front. 
Meg Holland and Nowalk kept 
the Belles in the game as they 
both scored six pomts apiece in 
the second half. But that was not 
enough. SMC continued to foul 
and to turn over the ball. With 
11:26left in the game, the Belles 
called a time-out with ND lead­
ing, ·49-33. 
As SMC got into foul trouble, 
Coach Jerry Dallessio had to put 
in substitutes. While the 
inexperienced substitutes were 
trying to pull the Be,lles together, 
ND' s starting play~rs were still 
offensiyely aggressive as the 
point-spread grew. Irish Coach ' Sharon Petro pulled her starting team out and· put in substitutes with 12 minutes remaining in the gam~ . and ND continued to dommate the court . 

, 
ctnnasaR's 
Sunda!l, Febtuat!l 4th 
J15/ couple open bat 
********** 
danclna 
*******;'*

cheese& ctaclr~ts
**************••··
membetshlp catda 
*********••~••*****
tickets ava.laBle: smc t t -2 lemans loBBY nb~lnltlq halls mon{RI OR sectiOn REPS 
IN produced by . 
Management association with
CONCERT! 
BARRY 


CHAPIN 
This Friday! 8:00 pm .. Morris Civic Auditorium • South Bend· 
good st>ats ~rt"" '>till available at River Citv Records, 50970 I J ~. ~ 1 North J3 miles nonh of campus) and the Morris Civic box office. . Call 277.-_4242 for further info. 

ACIOII 
I. llwallowo hurriedly 
I. Painta badly 
11. 
Avoid 

12. 
HUmonisea 


14. Poetic rhythm 
16. 
Phun-lored 

17. 
A "cinch": 


s.u. <•laq> 
111. Total 
20. 
Secluded, narrow valleJ 

21. 
Old Ecn!tian weiabt 


ll2. Slaift¥ ftKal 
26. Oblipdgu 
n. LoNIIII!II
··~ 
Lad7,1brex­
uaple 28.£a-tihaped 
29. Do • prdea­•r'•Job 
30. Locale 
31. 
Subeequent 

32. 
Ae well as. Charm 


38. eo-up for 
air .o. Sahara-dwell­
41.-.~ 
AlricaD -­
try 
42. Rain-~• 
<13. You~~~rbinl 
44. lnitable 

DOWN 
L l'h.,..ant a11d deer 
2. Eyepart 
8. Pennita 
4. 
What uittiq duck eould beeome 

5. 
-;-in, arrive at eeattered interval• 


8. "Wet blanket" 
7. Oneemore 
e. I~~~J~Utae 
•· "Buu.-maker" 
10. 
Ratt.ai 

11. 
P.,arfed 1f. (:olleet 


18. COuter 
·' 
'. 


Monday, January 29, 1979-page 11 
• • • leers 

-
• • . Terps 
(continued from page 12) 
chipped in six markers as the Irish 37-28. Maryland fo~ged t? .a 42-36 Graham topped all scorers advantage at mtermtsston. with 28 points, tallying on 13-23 
The Irish had their worst shots. Gibson added 11 shooting game to date con­markers as Driesell's squad necting on just 46 percent from upped their season mark to the floor to go with a 7 3 percent 14-5. success rate from the foul line. Jackson's 8-12 from the floor The Terps, who cooled off in the gave him 16 points while second half, finished the game Tripucka chipped in 12 and with a B percent field goal Woolridge and Flowers finished rate. Maryland out rebounded with ten markers. 
[continued from page 12) 
total of 30 saves in the game. 
"We spread out a lot more in the offensive zone Saturday,'' noted Smith, ''And stayed in our lanes on defense. That way we did not wind up getting caught on defense and played much better. That's what we had trouble wit Fridar, night.'' 
' Forechecking is the key. '' 
For the first period Friday Notre Dame played like it did most of the game Saturday. The Irish forechecked well and control led the tempo of play in the neutral zones also. They did not allow Michigan to enter the zone untouched or dump it in and chase after it cleanly. This is definitely the key to the Irish game. 
''The whole thing starts with the idea of forechecking,'' of­fered Smith. "That is the key. When we do that effectively, we can control the tempo of the game and it makes us play better defense as well. We have great speed and when we use it on the forecheck, we are at our best." 
Greg Meredith scored his ftrst of three goals on the weekend at 
8:05 of Friday's ftrst period, but ] ohn Olver matched that on a Michigan power play at 15:23 for a 1-1 first period score. 
But when Tessier scored at 
5:39 of the second, Michigan :started to dominate play for the period. The Wolverines caught Notre Dame on defense, and used a two-on-one break for a Doug Todd goal and a 3-llead. Weltzin and Schneider got both those back for the Irish at 7:45 

and 16:05, but the W~.oJverMes 
still controlled play. Lerg gave 
Michigan a 4-3 lead it would 
never lose with three minutes to 
go in the second. 
Roger Bourne got the game­
winner for the Wolverines on a 
power play at 5:06 of the third, 
but Brownschidle's power play 
tally three minutes later was not 
enough. The Wolverines snap­
ped an eight-game losing streak 
and moved into a tie for last with 
idle Michigan State. 
''That was a big, big win for us," said a smiling Michigan coach Dan Farrell. "Notre Dame really buzzed in the third but only got 11 shots on goal. They controlled play in our zone, but our coverage was good.'' 
Mason played a tough game in 
stop~;>ing 31 Irish shots while 
Laur10n made 30 saves. 
Notre Dame had a casualty even before the weekend began. 
FRIDAY'S SCORING 
FIRST PERIOD: 1. NO, Greg Meredith 18 (Jim Brown, Steve Schneider) 8:05; 2. UM, John Olver 8 PPG (Mark Miller, Tim Manning) 15:23. 
SECOND PERIOD: 3. UM, Jeff Tessler 4 (Gordie Hampson) 5:39; 4. UM, Doug Todd 8 (Don Lerg, Bill Wheeler) 7:14; 5. NO, Ted Weltzln 7(Jeff Logan, Bill Rothstein) 7:45; 6. NO, Schneider 9(Dave Poulin) 16:05; 7. UM, Lerg 5 (Wheeler) 17:04. 
THIRD PERIOD: 8. UM, Roger Bourne 6 PPG (Lerg, Miller) 5:06; 9. NO, Jeff Brownschldle 2PPG (Schneider, Poulin) 8:01; 
10. UM, Todd 9, open net, (Lerg, Brian Lundberg) 19:44. Notre Dame 1-2-1--4 Michigan 1·3·2-6 
SAVES: Notre Dame (Laurlon) 30, Michigan (Mason) 31. 
Backup goaltender Greg Rosen­
thal came down with the flu 
Thursday ni~ht and could not 
make the trtp. Mark Schores 
replaced him, although he didn't 
see any action. 
) eff Logan broke his nose Fnday and had to play with a protective cage the rest of the weekend. DefensemanJohn Cox partially dislocated his shoulder Friday. He tried to play Satur­day, but could only see limited action. Then Dick Olson got hit in the throat and was seeing the doctor yesterday. None of the injuries are serious. 
Now the Irish face a tough opponent Wednesday night at the ACC · the rop ranked team in the r.ountry, Bowling Green. 
Faceoff is scheduled for 7:30. 
SATURDAY'S SCORING 
FIRST PERIOD: 1. NO, Brown 4 (Tom Michalek, Brownschldle) 1:56; 2. UM, John Olver 9(Mike Coffman, Miller) 5:21; 3. UM, Lerg 6 (Manning) 6:52; 4. NO, Schneider 10 (Poulin) 10:21; 5. NO, Meredith 19 (Poulin, Schneider) 12:31; 6. NO, Dick Olson 2 (Brian Burke) 12:35: 7. NO, Poulin 21 (Schneider,Meredith) 19:25. 
SECOND PERIOD: 8. UM, Tessler 5 
Manning) 10:03; 9. NO, Meredith 20 
Schneider, Poulin) 13:13: 10. NO, Poulin 22 
Meredith, Friedmann) 17:22; 11. NO, Weltzln 8 (Logan, Friedmann) 18:48. 
THIRD PERIOD: 12. UM, 'Tessler 6 (John Blum, Bob Sutton) 1:14; 13. NO, Jeff Perry (Mickalek, Friedmann) 2(5-4; 14. NO, Brownschldle 3 PPG (Meredith, Michalek) 6:35; 15. UM, Wheeler 4 (Todd, Lerg) 8:56; 
!
16. UM, Lerg 7 (Todd) 9:ft; 17. UM, Lerg 8 PPG (Miller, Manning) 14:06. Notre Dame 5·3·2--1 0 Michigan 2·1-4--7 
SAVES: Notre Dame (Laurlon) 30, Michigan (Mason and Sutton) 25. 



~----~----------~-----~-----~~----
Terps hand Irish second loss 
by Ray 0 'Bnen Sports Editor Notre Dame chipped away at a game long Maryland lead and went ahead with just over two minutes left before allowing the Terapins to score a three point play with one second left to edge the Irish 67-66.  distance in the ftrst half, hit his ftrst two shots in the second stanza to get ND' s offense. moving. After Jackson tied the score at 62-62, the Irish went ahead on a 15 footer by Tripucka and stretched the lead to four points on a pair of free throws )Jy Stan Wilcox. However, Wilcox missed a  and charged Bruce Flowers with a bumping foul. Two timeouts later, Maryland's senior citizen completed the three point play ending ND's bid for a thirteenth win. After Orlando Woolridge opened the scoring with over two minutes expired, the Tera­pins grabbed the lead by  
Maryland, who had been ahead by as many as 12 points midway through the second half, allowed the number-one  chance to ice the game from the foul line with 15 seconds remaining when the ftrst of a one-on-one situation bounded  running by the Irish on transt­tional baskets. Driesell had his team continue the running game as Notre Dame came out  
ranked Irish to tie the score at  off  the  rim  into  Maryland  a step sluggish while showing  
62-62 with three minutes left on  hands.  Driesell  then  called  little  patience  in  a  normally  
a jumper by Tracy Jackson from the top of the key. The Terapins lost their lead after Head Coach Lefty Driesell sent his team into a four corner  timeout in order to set up a play. "We had a play called for 11 seconds," said the Terp men­tor, "but when the ball was  systematic offense. While Phelps and Driesell proceeded to play a chess game with numerous substitutions, the home team opened up a  
offense, allowing his players to go one-on-one for the last eight minutes of the game. While the Terps failed to hit down the stretch, Notre Dame  knocked out of bounds we called a ftve-second play and put Manning in." Manning proceeded to drive the baseline and shoveled the  lead as the game's Most Valu­able Player, Ernie Graham, was unstoppable hitting baskets from all over the court. Graham led all scorers at the half with  
relied on sophomores Tracy Jackson and Kelly Tripucka to close the gap. Jackson, who had come off the bench to keep his team within striking  ball off to Larry Gibson as ND defenders kept their hands at their sides in order not to foul. Gibson banked in the chippee as the referees blew the whistle  16 points. Flowers and Jackson pro­vided the only spark for the pregame favorites as each [continued on page 11)  


• 

Notre Dame hockey team 
place with a weekendsplit. [photo by John Macor] 
McManus leads Notre Dame Irish women defeat St. Mary's, 70-43 
by Debbte Dahrling for the game with-22 points. the teams caused the .Players to 
Women Sports Edt'tor "We really played well rush their offense. This resulted 
together as a team,'' said in throwing the ball out of bounds 
Quick offensive rebounding McManus. "We only had six or and frequent jump balls. Once ancf limited team fouls were the seven turnovers in the ftrst half the Irish and the Belles were able key to Notre Dame's win over and we rebounded well.'' Notre to overcome this anxiety, though, Samt Mary's Saturday as the Dame had 60 percent of the the real game began. Irish soundly defeated the Belles rebounds, which was a big factor Scoring was slow at the begin­70-43, ~ in the outcome of the game. ning of the game with the Irish 
If Most Valuable Players were Saint Mary's, however, was scoring the ftrst basket. Saint chosen in women's basketball plagued by fouls the entire game Mary's did not score until 16:40 games, Notre Dame's Tricia putting the Irish in the bonus in the game as center Kathleen McManus deftnitely would have situation early in both halves. Cullen put in two from under­received the award. The 5-11 SMC forward Martha Kelly got neath the basket. center maintained good board into foul trouble with four fouls in The Belles defense was tough position throughout the game the ftrst halfand sat on the bench in the ftrst few minutes of the blocking out SMC defensive for most of the second half. game keeping Notre Dame from rebounders to score for the Irish. Kelly, one of the top scorers for penetrating their zone to score. The Belles could not stop the Belles, only scored four McManus broke the ice for Notre 
Monday, January 29, 1979-page 12 

Tracy jackson [30] scored 16 for Notre Dame, but Larry Gibson 
[32] scored the deciding point in the Maryland win. [photo by Doug Christian] 
leers split with Wolves 
by Brian Beglane John Olver and Dan Lerg re­
Sports Writer sponded with two goals within 
two minutes to give Michigan a 
ANN ARBOR, MICH.--Prob­2-1lead with seven minutes gone ably the smartest move Notre by. Dame hockey coach Lefty Smith But midway through the period made all weekend was one he the Irish broke things wide open. didn't make. He didn't change a Schneider, the Irish senior cap­thing. tain, evened things at 10:21 on a 
Mter losing the ftrst of a deflection of a centering pass two-game series to the Michigan from Poulin. Wolverines Friday night 6-4, Then came the straw that Smith contemplatf"r1 ..nangmb ~he broke Michigan goaltender Peter Irish lines back ~<> the way th'-' Mason's back. Meredith scored were for the il'St half of tht at 12:31 for a 3-2 lead the Irish season. He elc :ted to wait until would never lose, and just four the team got to ·he rink to decide seconds later, Dick Olson scored what to do--and •hen he decide, _ on a freak-play for a 4-2 lead. 
to wait one more .:-::riod. After a chan~e oflines following 
The extra 20 num..."'~ uf wait­the goal, Bnan Burke won the ing proved well worth it. Notre faceoff at center ice and Olson Dame used five ftrst period goals half golfed it in from the blue line Saturday to mount a 5-1 lead that towards Mason. Mason mis­proved to be too much for the judged it, lifted his stick, and the Wolverines to overcome, as the puck slid on through. They were Irish went on to a 10· 7 win over the two quickest goals ever last place Michigan at Yost Ice scored by Notre Dame. Arena. The win, the twelfth for Poulin scored the third goal Notre Dame against 11losses and with three straight oftheir own in one tie, matched last season's the ftnal seven minutes of the total ofvictories, but more impor­second period for an 8-3 lead. tandy gave the Irish a league Meredith and Poulin got the ftrst record of 12-9-1 and sole posses­two while Ted Weltzin notched sion of fourth place 10 the the third. WCHA, In the third period, after Jeff 
"Mter losins the ftrst night I Tessier's second goal of the was really havmg trouble decid­night, Jeff Perry and Jeff ing whether or not to switch our Brownschidle scored two straight lines back,'' said Smith, ''but for a total of 10 Irish goals, the after our fourth goal in the ftrst most they have scored this period Saturday I definitely season. decided to stay with it. We The Woverines cut that 10-4 moved the puck much better in lead to the ftnal of 10-7 with three the offensive zone, and used all goals in six minutes, but the only ftve men effectively. I was very thing that accomplished was to pleased to see all the scoring we give Dan Lerg a hat trick. The did, especially some of the goals­Wolverines applied a lot of a few were picture-perfect pressure in the ftnal 20 minutes, plays.'' but Irish goalie Dave Laurion 
But the most important result made 16 saves in that period to of Smith's decision to stay with prese.rVe the win. Laurion made a his lines was the fact that tt kept [continued on page 11] the ftrst line of fresman phenom Dave Poulin at center for Steve WCHA STANDINGS Schneider and Greg Meredith, W L T TP 
North Dakota 15 7 0 30
This ftrst unit responded with 
ftve goals and nine assists Minnesota 13 8 1 27 

~------
McManus as she dominated points before fouling ou_t midway Dame as she dribbled up the Saturday to spark the Irish in the NOTRE DAME 12 9 1 25 Wisconsin 11 9 2 24
under the basket getting 15 i through the second half. center for an easy lay-up. Notre shootout over the 6-16 
Michigan Tech 10 10 2 22

rebounds and scoring 16 points : Both teams had many unneces­Dame jumped out in front early in Jim Brown opened the scoring 
Denver 9 11 1 19 

from the floor. McManus also hit ! sary turnovers, especially in the the game and continued to lead Saturday with his fourth goal of Colorado College 8 11 2 18 six baskets from the charity line , ftrst half. The pressure and for the remainder of the game. the year on a nice pass from Tom Michigan State 6 16 0 12 making her the high-point player ! anxiety due to the rival nature of 1 [continued on page 10] Michalek. Thatcameat 1:56, but Michigan 6 16 0 12 
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--.-~~~~--~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~--------~--­



