
Viewpoint -page 9
' ' ' 
J 
' 



Wholesale prices experience
Pope spreads largest jump in five years.
plea across 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The which was the largest since a 2 nation's hope for some relief percent rise in October 1974. 
from inflation dimmed yester­''With inflation now at a five­day when the government re­year high, it will soon be ported that wholesale prices cheaper to burn dollar bills than 

spacious land 
CHICAGO (AP) -Pope John took their largest jump in nearly home heating oil," Roth said. 
Paul II took hts plea for the five years last month. "President Carter's feeblesimple life and traditional Rom­
The 1.4 percent rise in the anti-inflation program is on its
an Catholic morality across this Labor Department's Producer last legs," he continued.
''§_pacious land' ' yesterdaY.. He Price Index during September "Carter's marathon do-nothingtravelled from historic Phtladel­was blamed on the continuing economic policy is another los­phia to the cornfields of Iowa impact of higher energy costs ing race he should abandoQ.. '' and then to the most Polish of and a return to large food price At the White House, pressAmerican cities. 

In Philadelphia and in Chic­increases, especially for beef secretary Jody Powell said "We and pork. are still hopeful we will see
ago, the pope reminded priests "There's no doubt that the moderation (of inflation) toward that celibacy is inviolable church (wholesale) food prices will the end of the year." He saiddoctrine. He spoke, too, of have an effect on retail prices in the latest figures underscored aother issues explosive to Amer­the next month or so,'' said need to restrain the federalican Catholicism, saying that Labor economist Andrew Clem. budget deficit and "hold firm
the priesthood is not for women and that men who take priestly Clem also pointed out that the on our anti-inflation policy." 
wholesale price of U.S.-pro­There was no comment on thevows should not expect to duced crude petroleum jumped new figures from the Council onescape them. 
"Priesthood is forever," he 9.4 percent last month, "partly Wage and Price Stability, which . due to the administration's oversees the president's anti­
said in Philadelphia. 

phased deregulation of domes­inflation pro~ram.
And on a hilltop altar in Iowa, 

he reminded in tic petroleum prices." This Carter admmistration officials, 
farmers the 

nation's breadbasket to ·con­likely will join the recent for­including council Chairman eign crude oil increases in Alfred E. Kahn, have been
serve the lane for future gener­pushing gasoline and fuel oil predicting that consumer pricesations and to be generous to costs for consumers still higher. will fall from their currentthe world's famished. 

Sen. William V. Roth Jr., record-setting, 13 percent an-In Chicago, the 59-year-old 
pontiff, wearing a white over­R-Dd., reacted angrily to ·the 
[continued on page 19]
coat against temperatures in September wholesale increase, the low 50s, traces his long day across the American landscape: "From Philadelphia to Des Moines, from Des Moines to Chicago, in one day I have seen a great part of your spacious 



Women'S group seekspapal audience 
land, and I have thanked God for the faith and the achieve­ments of its people.'' (AP) -A tearful official of an "given by the Lord to the 'the has not tasted of women's role." 
John Paul II was welcomed at international Roman Catholic men he himself had decided experience in being called." 
Uriel O'Connor of Columbia,the airport by Cardinal John women's group pleaded yester­on' ... in ·accordance with the But Patricia Harmon, an S.C., said: "(am a eucharisticCody, Gov. James R. Thomp­day for a papal audience, prophetic tradition,'' he said. 

editor of the Catholic weekly minister ofthe Church and have son and Mayor Jane Byrne, a saying she believes Pope ] ohn Ms. Muschal-Reinhart re­Tennessee Register, predicted given the holy sacraments. Butcatholic of Irish background Paul II can be persuaded to sponded that the po~e "has Catholics will support the pope I do not feel women should bewho told the Polish-born pope: withdraw his opposition to or­said this without talkmg with 
"because of his stands, which ordained."
"I practiced on the word all daining women as priests. women scholars and theologi­are pretty conservative. It's

day, Your Holiness -Witamy! "Have we women been so ans and without listening to the A sister from the Immaculate 
what the nation needs."
Welcome to Chicago, Your long with you and you have not experiences of women who are Order of Mary in PhiladelphiaHoliness.'' known us?" Rosalie Muschal­bemg called to the priesthood.'' Sister Maria Bethleham of who asked not to be named He was then sped to Holy Reinhardt paraphrased Jesus in "I am asking for a meeting Philadelphia supported the said: "I honor his position, but Name Cathedral along the John asking the pope to meet with with him,'' through the news pope saying: ''I have no the future may hold something
F. Kennedy Expressway-pass­officials of the Rochester-based media, she said. "I am problem accepting what he different for women. If I had ing neighborhoods shared by Women's Ordination Confe­convinced that this pof.e really said. I don't want to be a the chance to be a priest, I transplanted Poles and other rence. believes in the Gospe , but he priest. I'm satisfied with my would look into it." Eastern Europeans. Ms. Muschal-Reinhardt was 
At the cathedral, he again moved to tears by the pope's spoke of the "needy of the statement yesterday in Phila­world,'' as he had in Iowa, and delphia that restricting the in remarks prepared for deliver­priesthood to men is the way 

An Tostal budget shrinks by 20% 
ance to Cathohc brothers at St. "God has chosen to shepherd Peter's Church·he repeated his his flock." call for fidelity to the rule of While Catholic feminists ex­Although April is still seven months away, the "I don't ever expect anyone to run over celibacy. pressed anger and frustration An Tostal executive committee is already budget, and I have the utmost confidence ~1 ol!n The Pope was spending the when they learned of the pon­searching for ways to stretch a budget 20 Callaway to run An Tostal. He's already taken night at Cardinal Cody's resid­tiff's comments, many Catholic percent smaller than last year's. steps to cut out the abuses from last year," ence, and today will celebrate women said they agreed with The student government allocated $7000 for An Roche said. Mass twice: once in Grant Park the pop~ o: that they could Tostal a year ago, but cut the figure to $5575 for Callaway has already cut down on An Tostal car -where atheist Madalyn Mur­accept his views. the spring of '79. Although An Tostal chairman rentals ($300) and has eliminated the staff ray O'Hair plans a protest-and Sister Anna Mae Keeley, a John Callaway plans to appeal for more funds, dinner at Boar's Head, which he saw as a "very once in Poltsh for thousands of Sister of Mercy who was pre­he expects some activities will have to go. good idea which could have been done Polish-Americans· in a neigh­sent when the pontiff spoke, "It's going to be really tough to stretch our cheaper." In addition, he will make sure that all borhood church parking lot. was not distressed: budget, so we're trimming as much as we can," An Tostal workers pay for the mugs and T-shirts Almost one million ethnic Poles ''I would like the Church to Callaway said. "We may have to cut out an they are eligible to buy. Last year, many didn't live in the Chicago area. open its doors. I would not entire day of An T oastal. " pay. The committee has also decided not to 
The pope has seen the ethnic exclude myself if ordination Bill Roche, student body president, said that engage both of the $500 frisbee teams that side of America before in his were possible. But I'm not the student government allocated less to An performed last year. "' four days in the United States: dissatisfied with what he said. Tostal and other campus activities because it ''The money overspent last year did not go into Irish, Italian, Polish, and His­There's a ~reat deal we can do had less money to allocate than last year. worker's back pockets, at least to my knowledge. panic areas in the nation's large without betng ordained.'' On the books, the '78 An Tostal budget appears An Tostal was just not as realistic as pos5ible cities. But it was in only Iowa The pope said the "Church's to be only $1425 more than the '79 budget. last year," said Callaway. that he saw rural America. traditional decision ... not to call Actually, Roche noted that An Tostal '78 overran Assisting Callaway in money matters.this year 
He visited St. Patrick's Church women, is not a statement budget by $5000, so the difference is closer to are comptrollers Chris Digan and mark Razzano. -a wooden structure set amid about human rights nor an $6500. Although the student government and Digan, St. Ed's hall Treasurer last year and cornfields near tiny Cumming, exclusion of women from holi­the student union were able to cover the current hall president, and Razzano helped 
[continued on page 20) ness and mission in the over-run, Roche is certain that nothing similar Callaway run last year's An Tostal Saturday. Church." The priesthood is 
will_happen t~s ye~r. . ______ ----------··------· _ . _"_A~ Tos~a.!_will_~l!-froni Aeril 23-28. ' 
----..-·•£.::.,:-. ~·~.,.. --~=-a....:.L-:"~~.;;;:...,__.......,_ .........___,._ . .,.-· ....... 1 -.,._
--~!'~~.::.""!'""· 

} 



News in brief 
Boulder damages Olympic sled run at lilke Placid 
LAKE PL.A(:ID• N.Y. (AP)-Construction workers accident­ally blew abbulder 75 feet through the air, smashing into the Olympic bobsled run here and causing an estimated $50,000 damage it was confirmed yesterday. Authorities said a work crew se~ off a dynamite charge about quitting time a week ago as they worked on an access road to the half-mile start line. 

Weather 
Mostly sunny today. High in the upper 50s. Partly cloudy with a slight chance for showers tomght and tomorrow. Low tonight in the low 40s. High tomorrow in the mid to upper 50s.  

 
Friday, October 5, 1979 1:30pm PANEL DISCUSSION, "the role of science & technology in underdeveloped countries: tlfe united nations perspective," participants in un conf. on sci. & technology for development. CCE AUD. 2 pm CROSS COUNTRY· aotre dame invitational 3pm BASEBALL, nd vs bradley, HOME. 3:30-on BARBEQUE, spons: sailing club, club members and interested sailors welcome, BOATHOUSE. 4:15pm LECTURE, "oil expulsion-a consequence of oil generation," james a. momper, amer. assoc. of petroleum geologists, 101 EARTH SCI. BLDG. spons: dept. of earth science. 6pm FIELD HOCKEY, nd vs. indiana state, HOME. 7, 9, llpm FILM, "start the revolution without m.e.'.' K OF C HALL, spons: knights of columb'is, nd. adm1ss1on $1, members free. 7, lOpm FILM, "the sound of music," CARROLL HALL SMC, admission $1. . 8pm SOCCER, nd vs. marquette-CARTIER FIELD. 8pm ND/SMC THEATRE, "hamlet," WASH. HALL, call 284-4176 for ticket info. 9:30pm NAZZ, mike franken, paul bertolini, with guest eric barth. Saturday, October 6, 1979 9:30-11: 30am TOURS, new fitzpatrick hall of engineering. 11:30-Ipm PRE1GAME SOCIAL, spons: graduate s~udent union, refreshments, WILSON COMMONS, $1 donanon. 1:30pm FOOTBALL, nd vs. georgia tech. HOME. 3pm BASEBALL, nd. vs. bradley, HOME. 7, 9, llpm FILM, "start the revolution without me," K OF C HALL, admission $1, members free. 8pm ND/SMC THEATRE, "hamlet," WASH. HALL. 9:30pm NAZZ, cathy breslin, kathy murray, spon: nazz. Sunday, October 7, 1979 Bam WOMEN'S TENNIS, st. mary's irish invitational, ND & ANGELA COURTS. 1pm MEETING, ham radio club, new members welcome, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 2pm MOVIE, "pati, patni aur woh,'' spon: india association, hindi comedy, english subtitles, ENGR. AUD. $1 for students. 2pm ADMISSION DEGREE, knights of columbus, K OF C HALL, jacket and tie requested.  

3pm INDUCTION, ladies ofcolumbus, K OF C HALL, jacket 
and tie requested. 
5pm MASS, celebrating feast of the holy rosary; fr. griffin, 
glee club, GROTIO. 
7, 9, llpm MOVIE, "start the revolution without me," K 
OF C HALL, admission $1, members free. 

. J.Jyp •• ,P.Y.JY?!irx:r••·fiJR~·~.Prog~~,-.in ~~r~aqa .·m.l'ieo ·~:4
·~~peatt¥~··· •Jo'e1 · muggt· (aagsburg college), LIBRARY 

f.-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Jim Rudd Asst. Night Editor:Steve ' 
Swonk Copy Readers:Bruce Oakely, Maribeth Moran News Editor: Mike Lewis Editorial Layout:Ellen Gor­amn, Greg Hedges Features Layout:Sal Gran­ata, Rod Beard Sports Layout:J ohn Smith Typists:Carol Shuback, Kate Huffman, Laura Vasquez, Carol Cornwall, Tina Terlaak EMT's: Carrie Britt, Mich Santello 
Proofreader:Dodee Carney I ND Day Editor:Patsy Camp­bell S!lf.C Day Editor:Kathy Don­amco Ad Design: Chris Slatt Supplement Layout:Paul 
Mullaney • Photographer:Beth Prezio Guest Appearances:Ryan 
"Hi Pat!" Ver Berkmoes. 'rjd -"Flash from the Okto­berfest" 
The Observer [USPS 511 92U] Is 
published Monday through Friday o­cept during 111m 1nd viCititll periedl. The Observer is publillltd by the students of Notre 011111 IIIII Sllnt Miry'1 College. Sublcrtptila lftiY be purc:hlstcl for $211 per yur [S11 per l11111Stlrl from The Observer. P.O. bo 
0. Nitre b1me. llldillll 4C&il. Seclnd Cllll ~~ jllld, Nitre Dlmt, ln­dillll . 

The Observer Is 1 memlllr of tilt · Auocilttd Prea. All ~ righlllrt rtllrvtd. 
Fighting 




IRISH DEW
I 

Indiana 
White Table Wine 
PRODUCED AND BOTTLED BY RAUNER AND SONS. SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
RECORD STORE NEWSIll 
1. We are now taking orders fr9m both Schwann I and Schwann II catalogs. You can now order ANY alb~m currently in production. 
2. Check out our prices! Current populars starting at only $3.90 
3. 
Defective cl~ims for last year will be given a credit toward a new purchase. Bring your sales slip 

4. 
Orders will be taken Mon. thru Wed., 12:00 till 4:00 


in the ticket office. Prior weeks orders will be distributed on Thur. and Fri. 
CHECK OUT OUR PRICES AND OUR SELECTION 
Student Union Services Commissioner··
· • ~·-····~· · · · 


~----------------------------------· 
Friday, October 5, 1979-page 2 
Congress awaits five-year 
I, 


national defense plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration has promised Senate Democratic leaders it will soon send Con­gress a five-year defense plan that will increase military spending in an effort to win support for the SALT II treaty with Russia. 
"I believe they can do it by November," said Senate Demo­cratic Leader Robert C. Byrd. ''And I will go further to say not only that they should, but that they better do it because: I do not anticipate this treaty being called up prior to the pre­sentation of the five-year plan." 
Senate Democratic Whip Alan Cranston said he has been "given assurance" by the De­fense Department that the ad­ministration expects to be able to send the plan to the Senate floor by November. 
He said he has talked this week with Secretary of Defense Harold Brown who previously said that ] anuary would be the earliest the Pentagon could complete the job. 
"If the Department of De­fense speeds preparation of its 1981 defense budget and its five-year plan, SALT could be brought to a vote this year with a reasonable chance of suc­cess," Cranston said. 


A number of senators, led by Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., have said they will not be able to vote to ratify the treaty unless the administration greatly in­creases defense spending to correct what they see as mili­tary imbalances and to counter the growing momentum of the Soviet Union in long-range nu­clear weapons. 
Byrd said he has personally urged the president, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and presi­dential national security ad­viser Zbigniew Brzezinski to speed the five-year plan to Con­gress. 
Cranston said he believes the Senate coalition necessary to produce 67 votes needed for ratification of the treaty can be built by agreeing on a ''reason­able'' defense modernization program coupled with instruc­tions to U.S. negotiators to ur­gently seek substantial reduc­tions in weapons when a SALT III treaty begins to take shape. 
''That could quite possibly make unnecessary some of the significant increases in our de­fense spending that might oth­1 
I
erwise be made,'' Cranston said. "I think we have the seeds of an agreement here that could be of great signifi­J cance.'' 
NER ct 
is afamily owMd wil\ery
dedicated to prodiCiag fine 
table wine. 
Fouaded by Jill Rauaer 
(Notre Dame. class of '64) 
located 


The Observer 
In memory of Plunkett 


Flanner to dedicate statue 
by Neal Patterson 

A statue will be erected in front of Flanner Hall this week in memory of the late Bruce Plunkett. 
Plunkett, a former Flanner resident, was killed on July 3, 1978 when the automobile he was driving was. struck by an rmcoming train. His home was in Havre de Grace, Maryland, and he would have been a senior this year. 
The statue is being paid for with $2,000 that Plunkett's parents donated for the purpose of establishing a memorial, according to Flanner assistant rector Peter Greco. ''It was decided ·mainly by his room­mates exactly what the money 
SMC College Bowl participants to meet 
by Kelly Sullivan 

Saint Mary's College will hold an orientation meeting Monday at 6 p.m. for students and faculty wishing to participate in this year's Colle~e Bowl, the intercollegiate qwz game. The 
Honeymoon 
ends in tragedy 
NEW YORK (AP) -The honeymoon trip of the Uruguay­an couple ended in horror yesterday when the bride fell to her death in what police described as "a freak acct­dent." 
Sylvia Maninirios, 20, lost her balance and fell from a window of the Taft Hotel as she bounced on the bed in horse­play with her husband, Bruno, 29, police said. 
The couple, married in Monte­video late last month, arrived in the city on Tuesday after stops in Mexico and Florida. They had planned to leave Thursday for New Orleans before return­ing home. 
Shortly after 1 a.m., Manini­rios told police, his wife joking­ly stood up and bounced on the bed, which was beside a closed window. She lost her balance and fell, crashing through the glass and plunging to a mezzanine roof 18 floors below. 
meeting will be in the Student Affairs Conference Room, Le Mans Hall. AP.flications for College Bowl wtl be distribu­ted, and the game's rules and regulations wtll be clarified. Mary Laverty, director of Stu­dent Activities, explained that students may sign up in teams or individually. Competition takes place at the intramural, regional, and national level. The intramural winner will be the all-star team representing Saint Mary's in regional play. 
Laverty also mentioned other ways students may choose to become involved with College Bowl. Saint Mary's needs officials, committee members to implement the intramural program, and people to submit quiz questions. 
Laverty is also interested in seeing faculty teams prep the student teams, and in holding more games between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Amy O'Dowd, Saint Mary's campus coordinator for College Bowl, hopes to see more teams this year. "We're shooting for sixteen teams-last year we only had five," she said. O'Dowd stressed that . College Bowl ''puts academia and scholar­ship in the spotlight'' as op­posed to most extra-curricular campus functions. 
The registration deadline for College Bowl is October 19. At that ume, coaches may pick up their guidebooks in the Student Activities office. Practice ses­sions will be held october 29 thru November 4, with intra­mural competition beginning November 6. 
would be used for," Greco 
explained. 
"We knew that we wanted 

some type of statue, but we had to decide whether it should be put inside or outside'" said Jime McKee, one of Plunkett's former roommates. "We com­missioned a number of people to submit drawings before mak­. ing our final decision," he 
added. 
The bronze statue is being 
constructed by Harold L. Lang­
land, a professor at I.U.S.B. 
The statue is named ''Christ 
the Educator," and will stand 
42 inches tall, according to 
McKee. 
McKee also said that the 
statue should be completed by 
Wednesday and there will be a 
----------------------------~ 
Friday, October 5,.1979-pase· 3 

$1.00 

WILL BUY YOU: 
~l·~-~~t -~ 

Speaking of sports 'FREE PIZZA 


Sunday Night 9 pm AM 64 
dedication Ceremony SOmetime 1 r·-----------.----~ 
~~~~r~~d ~~~~~ p~~~h!~; \:ili JUST FOR THE RECORD attend, followed by a memorial '.1 ~ In the· 100 Centet ofteta 
mass on Sunday. ~ 
. 'I • 10%offon
Hockey tzckets~l EVERYTHING to go on sale I 
with ID & coupon 
L . 
RECORDS .TAPES p~t~phetn~lla .1. uesuay 
·· 
'T' J 
Notre Dame undergraduate, graduate, law, and married students, and Saint Mary's students wanting to purchase 
·season hockey tickets may pick them up at the second floor box office of the ACC next Tuesday through Friday, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m on each day. 
These tickets will be issued on a first come, first serve basis, so students wishing to sit 
· together must first present their ID cards together. Each student may present a maxi­mum of four ID's. Prices for Notre Dame -Saint Mary's students are: 13-game season ticket -$13.00; Friday night series (seven games) ­$7.00;and Saturday night series (six games) · $6.00. Ticket prices for the spouse of married students are $19.50 for the 13-game season ticket; $10.50 for the·Friday night series; and $9.90 for the Saturday night senes. No season tickets will be sold after October 12. 
, 
1 1 
1 
l 


and Special Gueat 


Faith Band 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm Notre Dame ACC Tickets $8.50 and $7.50 On sale now at ACC Box Office 
l, 
. . • --c ..... 
·, ---~ .. " ..· ' .. ' ~ . -'• ... ~-. . . \ . 
~ 
Mindy DeCrane, Ann Gryzbowski, Mjssy DeCrane ha_ve a few_ beers and "Vie/ Spass" at and Student Union Ticket Office The Oktoberfest which continues tonzght [Photo by R.Jck Dohnng]. 

The Observer 
Student Programmiilg Board Movie Series 
Thursday & Friday ·October 4&5 7:00pm and 10:00 Carroll Hall (SMC) 
Admission $1.00
....____________ 

r 
Friday, October 5, 1979 -page 4 

Carter vs. Kennedy 




Leaders see Florida caurus as first test 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) ­

Like Frankenstein's monster, 
which turned on its maker, the 
Florida 1 Democratic I Party's 
county caucuses O~t. 13 · have 
become a major source of grief 
for party leaders. 
Although they started out as 

only one step toward the mid­
November Democratic State 
Convention, the 67 county cauc­
uses have become a closely 
watched presidential battle­
ground pittin~ President Car­
ter's re-election campaigners 
against the backers of his 
undeclared rival, Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy, D-Mass. 
More than 50,000 Democrats 

are expected at the caucuses to elect 379 state convention dele­gates. Along with 838 dele­gates named by party leaders I and elected officials, they will vote in the convention's non­
binding presidential straw 
ballot Nov. 18. 
Believing the straw vote may have a psychological effect, backers of Carter and Kennedy are spending thousands of dol­lars trying to push their own delegates. But the delegate candidates are identified ·only by their own names -not by those of whom they're backing ­and some candidates are back­ing neither Carter nor Kennedy. 
Carter did gain early attention in the straw vote prior to the 1976 election by coming out 
ahead  of  then-Gov.  George  
Wallace  of  Alabama,  an  old  
southern favorite.  
However,  there  will  be  no  

other real prize in the caucuses or straw vote because Florida's delegates to the 1980 National Democratic Convention will be chosen in the March 11, 1980, primary. 
Thus many state leaders are convinced an undeserved em­phasis has been placed on the seemingly trivial caucuses. 
"It's an important process but we've lost sight of the real reason we are having the caucuses and convention -to formulate our platform and build our party,'' says state Democratic Chairman Alfredo Duran of Miami. "That's all been lost in the shuffle. It started with the press but everybody's gotten into it. It's become an important part of the Carter campaign and the draft­Kennedy campaisn." 
Adds Democratic State Com­mitteewoman Ann M. Cramer of Miramar: ''The person who 
wins  here  isn't winning  any­ 
thing."  
Even  so,  the  caucuses  have  

become the ftrst presidential 
testing ground and party lead­ers have had to change plans to accomodate the huge crowds they expect. The 1977 caucuses drew about 10,000 persons. Party leaders expect 50,000 to 80,000 this time. 
Smaller counties still ,Plan to hold a true caucus, wtth one meeting where delegates will be elected. But larger counties have moved to an election format. Voter will be bussed by each camp to a smgle pollmg place where they will wait, perhaps for hours, and vote for delegates from what one critic calls ' 'bedsheet ballots. ' ' 
Deciphering the ballots won't be easy because they will only list the names of potential delegates, not their presidential preference. Dade County alone -Miami and its suburbs -has almost 900 candidates for 133 delegate slots. Vote-counting may take several days. 
Both camps are offering slates in almost all counties, but so are other group&, such as local teachers umons, anti-abortion forces and the AFL-CIO, which has a nominally uncommitted slate. 
"There's no way to really know who's on which side," says Duval County Chairman Mark Brady of Jacksonville. 
The struggle be2an months ago when some Democrats 
r 
r 
r f 
~ This Sunday, instead of your "usual" place try our famous 
CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH 

~ 
, 

t>ue to ::itudent Union Budget Cuts 
RIDER BOARD SERVICE 
Is being 

DISCONTINUED 
effective Immediately We sincerely regret any lnconrenlence 
student union services commission 



r-----•
UTe De1,;ver•----­
,.,. 1 ,..,
I Pinocchio's -n 
1 _f}E_f! P~.rf!»:.___ '--""'1 


I r.[}J;if!.~i:ff~-=---r
I Pitcher of Pepsi, I Dr. Pepper ' Teern,
1 or Rootbeer 1 
1
I I 
$1,00 off pitcher

1 of beer with purchase of large pizza & 
Carter files complaint over Kennedy finances 
• _ 1 draft committees formed in his 
WASHINGTON(AP)-Presi­dent Carter's campaign com­mittee, alarmed over oppoisi­tion money being funneled into Florida, ftled a formal comp-taint yesterday with the Federal Eiecuon Commission in an ef­fort to dampen the "draft Ken­nedy" movement. 
In its complaint to the FEC, 

the Carter committee said na­
· 1f d · · · f 

nona un -raistng In support ° 
efforts to draft Sen. Edward M. 
d c . 

Kenne Y wr the Democratic presidential nomination is be-mg coordinated and therefore is 
illegal. 
"The national Kennedy com­mittees, in the various states and in their various fund rais­ing and targeting operations are about as unaffiliated as the Marx Brothers," Carter Cam­paign Manager Tim Kraftl said m a news conference announc­ing the action. 
It was the Carter campaign's ftrst major assault against the movement to draft Kennedy for the Democratic nomination and reflected growing concern over the expected Kennedy chal­lenge. 
Kennedy has said he may en­ter the race against Carter and expects to register an exJ?lor­atory presidential committee with the FEC next month. He 
has formally disavowed the 
I n=am=e·========M=ac=h=in=Ist=s'=U=n=io=n.=====23=4=-0=19=1.======
I In three day study 


·1 Accreditors to visit SMC 
I An eight-member Indiana 
1 Accreditation Team will visitI the Teacher Education Pro­i1 1 gram of Saint Mary's Oct. 7, 8, and 9. The purpose of the·I· I 
visitation is to reaccredit the .,... I present elementary education 
-.Jii~=-=!,!R:!!,d·L..:. major and secondary educationI programs under the TEACH 46, 47 state law.
I 

Curriculum revision to f!1e_etI the goals of TEACH 46, 47 was
I 

done in all departments of the college and the university of 1 Notre Dame in 1979, with 
'"'.. p.resentati~ of S~-.d~ !J?. 277-45.22J £!:~;~ 1;J7_the curricula in 
S. th programs under

.-..:·offtw.good througb 1 Octo 6f 
Specifically, the Carter com­plaint contends that the draft committees trying to promote a Kennedy candidacy are part of a nationally coordinated cam­paign and, under the law, con­stitute a single committee. 
If the commission accepts this view, it would drastically reduce the money donors and political committees may give 
to the Kennedy movement.
Candidates are limited by law to one ''principal campaign
committee.'' But if the Kenne­dy draft committees are held to be independent of one another, 
a person who could give Carter only $1,000 could contribute as much a~for Kennedy by spreading it around in chunks of no more than $5,000 to every draft Kennedy committee. 
"These committees are not independent enuues as claimed, but rather are part of a coordinated national effort, the principal purpose of which is to defeat President Carter and the elect Sen. Edward Ken­nedy in the ftrst Carter-Kenne­dy electoral test of the 1980 campaign: the straw ballot at the Florida Democratic Party's state convention on Nov. 18, 1979," the Carter complaint said. 
The complaint said more than $33,000 already has been con­tributed in this manner to the 
Kennedy movement by the 
Bulletin #400 have been phased out as TEACH 46, 47 was gradually introduced. The pre­
sent class of elementary educa­tion majors will be the last secondary senior class having t both programs represented.' 
The team -will VlSit classes, especially the general and spec­ific methods courses of the secondary program Monday and Tuesday. A representation ofstudents from Ed 201 and Ed 407 (reaching as a Profession and Theories of Learning, re­
:~~ti~ZJd;~ 'Th~!ew~~ :~ 
two courses required of all who were the mainstay of Carter's 1976 Florida campai8n broke with Carter over dis­agreements on patronage, pol­icy and leadership questions. 
Led by Democratic National Committeeman Sergio Bend­ixen and Dade County Chair­man Mike Abrams, both of Miami, they set up a draft-Ken­nedy campaign. Their ftrst goal was to embarrass Carter on the straw ballot at the St. Peters­burg convention and hope that a strong Kennedy showing would entice the senator into the race. 
In order to de that, the Kennedy forces planned on making a very strong showing in the caucuses to offset the overwhelming edge Carter will have among the so-called "automatics," who will be appointed by local leaders aligned with the president. 
[continued on page 20] 

Red Cross offers classes 
The Red Cross will offer the ftrst of ftve nursing classes this Saturday at 8:00a.m. at the St. Joseph County Chapter of the American Red Cross, 3220 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend. 
This course teaches people basic nursing techniques that can help family and friends care for the homebound, and people recently released from the 
hospital. For more information 
contact the chapter house at 
education students before the professional semester exper-Ience. 
The team members will also visit principals, teachers, alum­nae, student teachers and facul­ty members teaching courses in the core curriculum. 
At present there are 60 Notre Dame students in the depart­ment of education preparing for teaching on the secondary lev­el. There are 46 elementary education majors in the class of 

~~~e~0~s~:; edu~at~~ 
during the 1979-80 semesters.·
b 
~mc;;_e~e~f:l.;;.;;,.·;.;;:._.-.·_______;;_________ 
The Observer 
Today at CCE 


Hesburgh to lead discussion 
Friday, October ~ ·-l"i 79 -page j ~ 


byjanetRigaux 
F~. Theodore M. Hes~urgh, prestdent of Notre Dame will lead a discussion today in the Center of Continuing Education at 1:30 p.m. as part of the ~edication of the ~ew ~itzp~t­nck Hall of Engtneenng on campus. 
The discussion will cover is­sues raised at the recent United Nation Conference in Vienna on 
Science and Technology for 
-· Development (UNCSTD). Ac­cording to Hesburgh, four speakers will be featured in this discussion, all of whom partici­pated in the Vienna Confer­ence. 
Jean Wilkowski, ambassador and coordinator of U.S. prepar­ations for UNCSTD, will discuss how the conference was set up, why, and what its purposes are. 
James Grant, president of the Washington-based Overseas Development Council and exec-

Navy says gin, tonic and flying do not mix 
NORFOLK • VA (AP) -While drinking and flying airplanes are not particularly compatible, the Navy says the combination is espectally dan#!erous if the drink is a gin and tonic --mainly because of the tonic. 
A Navy doctor said yesterday thrre is evidence the quinine in tonic water can upset equili­brium and produce night blind­ness, blurred vision, double vision and abnormal color vi-SlOn. 

Capt. N.J. Dunne, a Navy · doctor with Armed Forces Insti­tute of Pathology, said there are clear indications that even low 
Fr. Griffin 

to hold mass 
Father Robert Griffin, university chaplain, will cele­brate Mass Sunday at 5 p.m. in the Grotto. The Glee Club will sing at the Mass, honoring the Feast of the Holy Rosary. All students are cordially invited to attend. 
doses of quinine can impair 
equilibrium: and interfere with 
vision--effects that could be 
disastrous for jet pilots who 
suffer some normal disorienta­
tion in flight anyway. 

Dunne said the suspected quinine effects are not as ' dangerous for people on the 
ground. 
"People on the ground aren't 
doing right banks or making 
deep dives: They generallykeep 
tneir heads in one position and 
don't stimulat_e th~ir equil,i,bri­
um systems ltke pilots do, he 
said. 
The Naval Safety Center in Norfolk has issued an alert that suggests pilots refrain from tonic drinks before flying while more studies are conducted over the 
next six months. 
The Army, however, has gone 
farther. It insists Army pdots 
who have taken quinine bever­
ages as frequently as every 
other day be grounded for 72 
hours before they fly again. 
The Armed Forces Institue of 
Pathology, in Washington,came 
up with the preliminary tind­
ings about quinine and plans 
more studies to find out such 
things as how much quinine is 
dangerous. 


This loyal reader was captured off-guard yesterday zn LaFortune's Caron Court. [photo by Beth Prezio] 
utive director designate of UNICEF, will give a world view of science and technology. 
Rodney Nichols, executive vice president of the Rockefei­ler University and an analyst of American policies for science and technology_, will ~iscuss the challenges facmg sctence and technolo~y today. Dr. Victor 

Rabinowttch, director of the •==-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:iii::=•••••llii 
Nation Academy of Science!' .;::L-Board on Science and Technolo-·u1e ~eater gy for International Develop-


ELGIN CLUB 
ment, will talk about promises for the future in science and technology. ,.,.___...,.HAPPY HOUR-----41 
The overall view of the discus-· sion will be concerned with finding ways for developed 

3-6 GOOSES 
nations to share their know­ledge of science and technology with underdeveloped ones. All Hail Ma r v·erbt·ct 
"80% of the population of the YO • world is in underdeveloped II!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. nations," Hesburgh said. "Part of the purpose of the Vienna 
Conference was to fmd ways to aid these underdeveloped na­tions in economics and other fields through technology, so that they can feed their people and have a better standard of living." 
Richard Conklin, director of information services at Notre Dame, explaining why this discussion is appropriate for dedicating the new building, said: ''The discussion is a perfect fit. It is deliberating uses of engineering for the benefit of mankind which is what our engineering depart­ment is all about." 
>J. 

100 Center schedules 


*9th RUFFCUTT LIVE!! *20th FASHION SHOW

Oktoberfest 

*31st WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
COSTUME PARTY
7th annual Oktoberfest this year to be celebrated both this 
weekend and next. German food, drink, and music will be featured as well as a wide variety of other cuisine. 
The festival will be opened from 4:00p.m. to !O:OOp.m. on Friday, and on Saturday and Sunday from noon to 10: p.m. 


Ideal gift 
The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education 
by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 
,1 
! 
~
, 
·• UCTU 13 ~ l?r= ~~ T 

*WEEKEND OPEN BAR 
I()<J ~()~T ti W()()()WAI:!() £ T. 
Notre Dame's president has been in office longer than any other currently active president of a major Am(;'rican university. Here he reveals the private thoughts and behind-the-scenes 
1
events which have marked his political, religious, and educational involvements. ­
~ 
Available now at 512.95 Book Department 2nd! floor 1The Hammes otre Dame Bookstore ~ ~'~ 
--------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------~ 

-------, 
.. 
I 
The Observer 

Friday, October 5, 1979 -page 6 I 


1 
Corby's:. 
Friday
~,,. ·; ...-.---....-------, 
:I~~ -----~ .~ 
I I 
3pm-7pm
,.__ -.c--~-:::ao.-...-----­












A.A.A. 
(Attitude Adjustment Afternoon) 
3.Olympia Grenades Sl.OO: 
~,, .., l_~orby's 
I 


Saturday 
:::·----~;_••! 
I I 
Open 10 am 
::.~--·---­




Wreck Tech 
Double Bloody Mary's /$1.00 2 Hamms cans S1.00 

Alberts Animal Empire Athlete's Foot 

L.S. AYRES Baker Shoes Barman Buckskin Barnard Wigs Book World BoHomHalf Bresler's 33 Flavors Brown's Sporting Goods Burger Chef Camelot Music Card Cage Casual Corner Cavalier Camara Charlie Chan Restaurant Chess King Chick-Fil-A Cinema I, II, Ill Circus World Toys Claire's Boutique Clifford's Diamond Canter 
•clock Collection Cookie Factory County Seat 

OVER  90  SHOPS  
AND  SERVICES  
FOR  ALL  YOUR  

SHOPPING NEEDS ••••••• JUST A FIVE MINUTE DRIVE AWAY! 
UUIVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELANC"J AT GRAPE ROAD Mall Hours: Mon thru Sat ', 0 am -9 pm, Sunday 12 -S:30 pm A joint venture deve,.>pment of The Edward J. DeBartolo Cprporation, _mano;.:Jin_g partner, and Cres~y Associates 

•..·~· ..:1" ­
~-------·­

------------------~------------------~ 

UUtVeRSITY PaRK 
CLEVELAND AT GRAPE ROAD 
It's Allin Store For You... 
Cressy & Evaran Realtors Evanson's Cards & Gifts Father & Son Shoes First National Bank Florshalm Shoes Fox's Jewelers Foxmoor Casuals Frontier Fruit & Nut Fun-N-Gamas Gantos The Gap General Nutrition Gilbert's Gordon Jewelers Great Hot Dog Experience Hanover Shoes Hickory Farms Homemaker Shop Hot Sam's House of VIsion 
•J.L. 
HUDSON 

•Hush 
Puppies Jean Nicole Jeans Wast Jo-Ann Fabrics Just Jeans 




For second year 


Course booklet to provide facts 
by Brendan Brown 
For the second straight year the Student Government will provide a course evaluation hooklet for undergraduates. Rich Gobbie, an executive co­ordinator for the Student Gov­ernment, is \ overseeing the project and expects the booklet to be available by November 8 in t~e for early registration for spnng courses. 
Under the direction of Beth Imbriaco and co-editors The­rese Tavis and Tom Trozzolo, the booklet will maintain the basic format of last year's but with a few important changes. For examrle, this year the booklet wil be ten pages longer and will contain evaluations of courses in all four colleges. Last year the booklet contained evaluations of courses in the College of Arts and Letters only. 
"The purpose of the booklet," Gobbie said, "is to provide the students with reasonable, fac­tual information so that the students will not have to rely on 

Karmalkorn :;hoppa Redwood & Ross Kinney Shoes Regis Hairstylists Lana Bryant Richman Brothers Lerner Shop J. Riggings The Limited J.B. Robinson Jawela... Lion's Dan Scono Pizza Loading Do~k SEARS Louie's Tux Shop Silverman's Lowrey Organ Size 5-7·9 Shop Marianne Shop So-Fro Fabrics Marla Norman Spencer Gifts Milady Shop Stride Rita Bootary Morrow's Nut House Susie's Casuals Motharcare Tammay Jewels Muslcland Things Remembered National Ufllfortn Shop Thom MeAn Shoes Naturallzar Shoes The Tinder Box Newman's VIllage Scene Nobll Shoes Wags Restaurant Orange Julius Walden Books Osco Drugs Wlcks-N-Stlcks Parklana Hosiery World Bazaar 
•J.C. PENNEY Your Father's Mustache Piercing Pagoda Zala's Jewelers Radio Shack Red Cross Shoes •opening soon 
hearsayfrom a senior. This will 
enable them to make an intelli­
gent choice in choosing cour­
ses. " 
The information r.rovided in 
the evaluation wlil include, 
among other things, a brief 
course description, the method 
of presentation (i.e. discussion 
or lecture), the number of tests, 
and the reading list. It will also 
contain ratings on the quality of 
the reading list and the course 
itself. 
Imbriaco said that she will strive for a more "qualitative" booklet that will not only give the students the essential facts, but will also provide them with a view of the character of the course and the "personality of the professor. '' This she hopes ''will give the students a better understanding of what they're signing up for." 
According to Imbriaco, the method of course evaluation is as follows: the Academic Commission will approach the professor and request five or six students who he feels are competent to give a fair evalua­tioQ of the course. Out of these names the commissiOn will choose three students who will be asked to evaluate the course according to established criteri­
a. The professor will not know which three students are cho­sen. The evaluations are checked for gross discrepancies and then compiled into a single evaluation. 
Gobbie pointed out that this evaluation booklet "is in no way related to the teacher evalua­

tions filled out by the students at the end of the semester.'' "We hold no grudges, and we're not trying to belittle or berate a professor,'' he added saying that if a course received an extremely bad evaluation it probably would not be included m the booklet. 



Saint Mary's 

alumnae 

• 

hold meeting 
by Diane McCarthy 
The Saint Mary' sAlumnae As­sociation is holdmg its bi-annu­al meeting through tomorrow on the SMC campus. They will meet to consider general busi­ness, and a revision of the organization's by-laws. 
The three-day session opened at 8:30a.m. yesterday, and will end after the football game tomorrow with the annual A­lumnae Cocktail party in the Angela Athletic Facility. 

Today's agenda includes meetings of the Association's six committees: Fund, _Clubs, Continuing Education, Publica­tions, Reunion, and Student Alumnae. 
Yesterday, the Board was shown plans for the proposed library, and heard campus offi­cials speak. 
The Board will meet in Gener­al Session tomorrow. 
The resignation of Board member Diane Smith Davis is . being handled by a Search Committee, who is interivewing candidates. The final decision will be made by Board Presi­dent Maryjeanne Ryan Burke, and Dr. John Duggan, Saint Mary's president. The Associa­tion will leave the proposed library project in the hands of the Board of Regents. 
The purpose of the Associa­tion, according to Burke, is to foster the love of the college, help the Alumnae grow both physically and spiritually, and to help foster relationships between the Alumnae and the college educationally, socially and financially. · 
Members of the Board are elected by the Association, and serve three-year terms. Mem­bers may serve a maximum of two three-year terms. 
Services provided by the Board include typing resumes for seniors, providing airport transportation, sending Dirth­day cards to students, and sponsoring the .annual spring 
1champagne party and com· 
: mencement brunch, where sen­iors are welcomed into the Association. 
1 The Association works with campus officials, including the College's president, vice-presi­dent, comptroller, senior offi­cers, and the Admissions of­
. fice. 



--------~--------------~~---------------------------~~--~------------------------. 
The Observer 


Fires trigger concern of parents Direct Diamond Importers 
MUNCIE, Ind. (AP) -A rash ing when the blaze broke out ' series of tests, which Fire Chief of fires at Ball State University there. No fires have been Bing Crosby said are costing in the /ast six weeks has reported at the school since that the university between $700 triggere a flood of telephone incident, school officials said. and $1,000, to pinpoint the 


FOX'S 
calls from concerned parents Investigators said earlier they cause and source of the fire. and a series of tests to deter­believed that the latest fire, and Crosby, who has been study­mine the cause of the latest other recent blazes, were delib­ing records of fires at the Jewelers Since 1917 blaze. erately set. campus this year, said the 
Barker Davies, a special fire State Fire Marshal William documents show that city fire­
Special15% Discount on
investigator who has been prob­Goodwin said although his of­fighters made 29 runs to the ing the remains of the Sept. 26 fice will continue to be advised university for fire alarms bet­ALL Merchandise to Notre Dame fire, has asked university and of the situation, his assistance ween Aug. 16 and Sept 27. Muncie fire officials for more has not been sought. However, A few of those were false and Saint Mary's Students. samples from the damaged he said his office has been alarms and malfunctions of fire two-story wing of the BSU receiving calls from parents of alarm systems, he said, noting 
Town and Country, Concord and
teachers College building. BSU students who expressed that the figure does not include Several hundred students concern about the situation. fires to which city officials were University Park Mall Open Daily 10-9 
were evacuated from the build-Davies has been conducting a not called. 
Books Are A Great Gift Idea Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the 


Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Subjects Include: -v S -ii''A00f'­co0f'-Y ~ 
ARJ­

THE FIGHTING IRISH By NOTRE DAME ONE . . William Gildea And Christo­HUNDRED YEARS* By Father ----­pherJennison, regularly$12.95,
THE 75 YEARS OF NOTRE DAME
Arthur J. Hope C.S.C., hard-now on SPECIAL $5.98. Dram­
DAME 1980 CALENDAR By ALL-AMERICANS, paperback
bound $12.95, paperback atic/stories of N.D.'s Football 
Philip C. Thompson $5.95. A $6.95. Photos and descriptions
$7.95. A detailed. history of History through the 1Years .
lasting gift (the 12 prints can be of Notre Dame All-Americans
Notre Dame, orinally published Includes a ~allery of rare and
framed). from 1903-1978.
In 1943. excl usiveJ ph{)tOS. 
Tornado kills two, leaves homes 
in shambles 
WINDSOR LOCKS, Conn. (AP) -Stunned families salvag­ed what they could yesterday from area homes left in sham­bles by a tornado that killed two people, injured hundreds and caused an estimated $179 mil­lion in damage. 
''You just pick up what you can and that's it. After 20 years you start over, " Louis Cerrnola said as he went through the remains of his horne in Wind­sor. 
"There ain't nothing there now. The roofs gone. It's all gone," the truck driver said. ''Nobody was injured, thank God." 
Gov. Ella Grasso continued for a second night the 8 p.rn.-to-5 

a.m. curfew in Windsor and Windsor Locks. Five hundred ·National Guardsmen were acti­vated to prevent looting and to 
direct traffic. 
''I've never seeri anything as sad, " Mrs. Grasso said after a helicopter tour of Windsor and her hometown of Windsor Locks. "To look through that swirl of fog and see some houses like matchsticks swept from their foundations ... you think that in those houses were families and their lives, I'm sure, are shattered," she said. 

The funnel cloud caught resi­dents by surprise Wednesday afternoon. Weather service radar did not even pick up the twister, which spun out of a wave of thunderstorms that lashed north-central Connecti­cut with winds of up to 86 miles an hour. 
A Manchester man, William Kowalsky, 24, was killed Wed­nesday when flying lumber hit his pickup truck, authorities said. 
The body of a 43-year-old Windsor woman was found yesterday 25 feet from her wrecked horne. Authorities said they had not yet confirmed her name. 
State Health Commissioner Douglas Lloyd said 143 people were hospitalized and at least 130 others were treated for injuries. 
Mrs. Grasso said damage in Windsor Locks was estimated at $100 million for 28 commer­cial and industrial businesses, $50 million for National Guard aircraft and $15 million for 
-

·HOmECOmiNG mEETING 
monday Oct~ 8th 
ANYONE WHO IS INTERESTED IN ANY ASPECT OF HOffifCOffiiNG WEEK IS URGED TO AnEND 
8pm Student Union Offices 
private air<;:raft. 
In Windsor, there was about $12 million in damage to 10 businesses and 115 homes, 65 of whic,h were destroyed, she said. In/ Suffield, 2 5 to 30 homes 1nd 2 5 tobacco sneds suffered about $2 million in damage. 
Mrs. Grasso, who applied for federal disaster aid for the area, received offers of assistance from the governors of Massa­chusetts and Rhode Island. 
''We aren 1t _lUST textbooks _you knowI 1 1 
t 
_j 
..---------------------------.~~~.------------------------­
Friday, October 5, 1979 -page 8 








Editorials 
Good as Gold P.O. Box Q 
r 
Art Buchwald 
regulation-sized soccer ball. I 
flts from these expenditures.Spiritualism was overwhelmed, to say the As a student looking over the 
I 
least. My reaction becametiny bars of gold in crllophane numbers involved in the alloca­WASHIN<iTON --They used especially acute when the re-
wrappers. When I tdl tum to tions, I consider it a blatant 
ro he very quiet and you rarely to 
come to bed he says, 'Not until I sponsible parties merely as.ked violation of a "volunteer's"•;aw one. But latl"ly the gold find out what's happened in priorities, that $2700.00 will be
if I would be okay, apologizedTokyo.' The other night I asked and (when I made no mention ot spent on 2) pairs of tickets to
hugs have come out of the materialism? 
'loser. You ran recognize them · him 'What has Tokyo got to do each concert for insiders at the
r my lawyer) quickly returned to
l•y thr rnad glint in their eye-s. 
r with going to bed?' and he said, Dear Editor: their game. I suffered no Student Union. This comes into
My frirnrl Boh Levin is one-of r tlwm. lfr'..., hard to live-with 'Everything If you watch the prolonged after effects, and to focus as a clear abuse of 
Jap;~nrsr hankers, you: II know I have been convinced by be perfectly honest, I la~ghed position, when one reads on to
' r!Jc-...,r day..... This isn't my
r 'wbrre thr dollar is 'going."' many friends to comment on an find that clubs, representing
about it later that same mght. 
, 
r "l''lll<~tr· it's ht'> wrlr's. "What did you say to that?" incident that raises questions hundreds (probably thousands) r Slrr 1 arne-t11 srr me-thr othrr "I said I didn't carr whrre the about some of our values at What worries me is that this of students, are fighting to get day Shr lookrd as if shr'd dollar wa..., ~oing as long as I Notre Dame. This concerns the was not an isolated incident and $7), or $100, or $200. 
r llf'rll<tying . 1 ould go w11h it--at least to a hiswrical visit ofour pope to the I am afraid that the misses Student Government Treasur­·' You'vr got to do som<"thrng which whiz through the air on
storr. I k said if I ju'it held on United States. I have been told er Greg Sebasky is obvio~sly .tiHHrt Boh," shr said. "fir's for six morr months we could by some th.~t r-:?tre Dame our quads present a serious concerned that the allocations p,rolrf 1 I a;y." buy 1hr storr." represents the Roman threat to our well-being, if not of the student activities fund 
"Wrll, if hr 1:111 afford it, it's "Whrrr does hr krep the Catholic institution "in the our very lives. If this sounds benefit the maximum number 
""' a had investrnenr." golrP" world." farfetched to you, try this: of students possible. I stronglx''llr<an't afford it," she said. "In rhr housr. He took the If this is true, then what is the throw a baseball straight up agree with his position agamst "I ~r·..., putting rvrryrhi~~ wr 111sidrs our of an old television real reason that there arc no with all your strength and stand complementary tickets; and I lravr 111to gold. llr says II s the srt wr havr in rhr all ic. Every planned tri,>s to Chicago? Is it under it. See what happens. can only think of about )0 only ....afr thing kfr in rhr because a I of the students people who would not agree
day hr rail., up from rhe office So what do I want? A vigilante 
world " and asb rnr to go up and chrck would go, and there could be no that this money could be put to
group to patrol the campus
"Mayhr he-'s righ1." to srr if ir' s still 1here. He classes? Schools across the better use.
and break up all activities? Of''I told him I'd rathe-r put some­n;~r ion are taking days off for
doesn't rvc·n like me to go out course not. I often look forward of i1 into food for myse-lf ;~nd thr the papal visit. I would think
any rnorr hnause hr's afr~id 
to seeing people relaxing on the
,Juldrrn." that with the ''fine" reputation
somronr will break 111 while I rn 
lawn in the afternoon. They Martin Sheehan 
"Whal did hr say to that?" that we have, it would seem
gonr." . . inspire a feeling of neighbor­
"llr said, 'llow ran you think "Why doesn't he put II 111 a consistent to have chartered all
r hood and remind me of home.
;1lmu1 food wh<'n South Afrit ;~n safr drposit box in a h;~nk?" of the buses in South Bend to
r All that we need is a little more
1\.rugrll ;.111ds :liT roing up fivr "Bn ausr he says thr wily get the· enti're campus to
r care and a lot more considera­
prr1rnt a wrrk?' told him you go.ld is going 1hr hanks could Chicago. tion on the pan of the players. Editorial policy r r 'an'r rill Krugrrrands, and he do...,e any day and he won't he llnf(,rrunately, we seem to be 
Then maybe we can think about-;aid, 'Maybe nor today, hut ahlr to get at his box." inconsistent m our religious where we are going rather thanwhrn gold hits $(,()0 an oUIKr, valu<·s. As a student, the
"ll:1s hr seen a shrink)"
~ whether we will arrive with all 
we ran h;1vr t<lvi;H for breakfast ''I k went ontc at my re­lesson that is seen as being questioned
our faculties intact.
while everyone' rlsr will br quest.'' taught here is that our religion statving to death."' • ''What hap/'rn('(l?'' has <·hanged from spiritualism 
Betsy Spinelli Dear Editor: 

"I k sounds as if he's really 10 miltcrialism.
·'I k sil id 1r persuaded the got thr hug.'' I said. dot'lot to put all his earnings 
Last Friday's editorial dis­''I .asr wrrk I told him I luHI to into 10 gram bullion." 
claimer preceding the featurebuy shoes for the children. I "I don' 1 sre how I r;~n do john !Jaxer 
Ticket policy article "Into every life a littleaskrd him fot $'i0. I k sneam­
anything." I told. hn ;~s she 
rain... " caught my eye. Ird ill me, 'I low r;~n you ;~sk fot 
llullrd 0111 Sl~lllC' tiSSUes 10 dry 
immediately wondered what

paper monn whrn ir 's losing 1r1 eyrs. abusive 
issues of substance were to beIts valur nny d;~y?' So I said. "I thought you nlllld talk to Quad sports addressed with such passion'All right. gi''C' me a MrxirHn him I k respnrs you and 
Dear Editor: and conviction that such a.
gold 'iO pn•P 1o1n instead.' llr 
perhaps he'd Jnvesr 111 what 
said. 'lhr gnomes in Geneva threaten stud~Q.~S h~ h is rf9.-'S:-.uring to read that disclaimer would be appropri­
,.,,u'rr in\'rsting in now." 
N~ii-~'l)ame's teachings on how ate.
w.,uld rrall, llkr tlwt. They're "I don't think it would do any to responsibly handle positions1 ount•ng ,;n peoplr likr mr g11od " I told her. "My hrokrr /)car Editor: The article provoked a number
of power in the "O~tsid.e
grlling out llllW, just when thr has .;,r up 111 my rars iri silver. of. smiles until the last few
World,'' are already bemg Im­
markrt is ~~~injl. to soar.' I'vr got so rnurh o~ it. I n111' t paragraphs when the initial
plemented by a few students"I d(lll't know what I'm gning r\'Cil g.et it into ·nn-freezer an~· One n'Cning not long ago, I who are in positions of power question returned with a bite: 
...
111 d11 lhr onh thing wr'vr was rrossing the north quad on what issues of substance are to
mol('. here on campus. It is all a
hnught fo1 thr lwuse in thr l;~sr my way to a review session be explored with such passion
question of who derides how 
<.,JX 11111111hs is ;l sralr. 1\11\l (d 11)-:'•>. l.tlS Angrles Times wiJCn I i·c-reived a rather devast­and conviction as to warrant an
the activities money will be
~prnds lm. r\Tnlllgs wrighing ating hJ,)w to the head with a editorial disclaimer?
SYndirate spent: and who directly bene-

My concern is not with the article but with a growing sense for editorial policy and the people behind the scenes whose sense ofrootedness is so fragile that talented thinker-writers are met with condemnation rather than critique, with reac­tion/rejection rather than res­ponse. In a place devoted to the fashioning of the image, mat­ters of substance can slip so beyond touch that challenge is 
intolerably unsettling. In a place devoted to professional competence according to norms dictated by outside interests, education can easily give way to indoctrination and the doctrinal barricades defended without regard for truth seeking and the developmental demands and opportunities of.srudents. 
In a conformist society editor­ial disclaimers for insubstantial and mildly jabbing articles are a must, and matters of substanc.e are nervously rell"gated to pen· 
feral vision ar best. But are

I 
' 
such attitudes and behavior appropriate to a university and to its supposedly independent student newspaper? 
Mike Glockner, CSC 
.. 




·­

The Observer -Editorials Friday, October 5, 1979·'-·l)age 9 

DOOIIBSBUBY 


We are Notre Dame 
studies here and gone and 
~~red~est use 
ofjustice? A~d nerve that the remakes the world 
m a life that so1nel:illie$$¢~ series of choices, we are between .. what appear f(ji arguments. · · 
After the film on mttlti:riat:it someone remark that they .. · In the film we had seeh a would, if she did not starve ""''•A,.,.,,..h..,.. permanent brain damage as the · malnutr!tion. Why? Because a. rottlttqa1:totla!; had dec1ded tO grow produ~e for exp.oJn; !flSite of the black beans that were the '. . . · ·· . family's diet. What could the <ither ., ·have been? Who made that decision and how co'Uld it have been justified? · · · 
One question lies at the heart ofthis·film, .one many of us would avoid at any cosr, but none more impanant: are we to controfcorporations or are they to control us? Are we to have an economy that is fundamentally structured to provide each and every one of us with the 
Last Sunday I arose about 11:00, pulled on my greenest Notre Dame shirt and a pair of comfortable jeans and went to lunch. There, iP rr ­North Dining Hall, I saw ma1.. "obvious" visitors who were eagerly awaiting the "!vent of the afternoon. It seemed that the coming game was the topic of everyone's discussion that morning as I wandered mechani­cally around the dining hall looking for somewhere to sit. 
After lunch I walked over to the 
South Quad primarily out ofcuriosity. 
There were so many visitors that I 
knew the area would be interesting 
and interesting it was. Tables and 
charcoal grills filled a moderate 
portion of the area while standing 
displays of curios and souvenirs 
occupied another major section of the 
ground. Everywhere there were 
people. 
One characteristic all of these 
people had in common was their 
affiliation. Be it their Notre Dame 
hat, jacket, shirt, pom-pom or peon­
ant, whichever gave them away, they 
were without question on our side. 
Alumni are a by-product of any 
college or university but supportive .alumni arc a trademark of Notre Dame. 
Thinking ahead, I went early to the 
stadium and at about 12:00 I was 
standing in line. As my ticket booklet 
passed from my hand to the attend-· 
ant and then back, the realization of 
what was in store for me was only 
vague. But when the friendly 
gentleman said, ''Thank-you," I 
knew my adve-nture had begun. 
Proceedin'' slowl~: into the inner 
sanctum I .~~ the 'sign directing me 
to my plac: Zor the n~xt three hours. 
Immediate.·· ! went to my assigned 
seat and s~ down. Little did I K:now ·that the nc' oppor;. ,;ity to be seated would not . ··ue uotii halftime. At appn; ;:n,arel} 1 15, the Michi­gan State bar.d came onto the field 

-The Observer_ 
&xQ N~:·~Dame, IN 46556 
The Obse'f'!.·-is an independent newspaper F .·~ished by the students of the Unive"' ·.v ofNo~.re Dame dulac and Saint M~ s CcoiJ~·"<e.· · It doesf not 
.R:ui~h~Hty ~~ argue 

Thomas C. jennings 
using a cadence step I had never seen before. The half-march, half-run entrance was novel and quite approp­iate for their purpose, to entertain the 
..owd. After a few short tunes the .JSU musiciansflayed the unmistak­able melody o our Fight Song. Along with the thousanas of other students positioned around me, I rose and clapped instinctively to the familar song. This unity expressed in the ultimate way the pride the students of Our Lady feel. Through­out the contest this pride in the form of team spirit was also evidenced through clapping and cheering. 
The game? Well, the game was me~re than anyone could pc'>sibly want for a home opener. A wm, a big win, and a big win with the promise of good things to come. The Spartan fans were sent home unhappy but what kind offans were they anyway? While the game progressed we stood, they sat. At halftime we sat, they stood. Were they here to cheer the band or what? Anyway, we will leave that for the citizens of Lansing to decide for we have more important concerns, such as Georgia Tech, to attend to. 
After the final gun, with the scoreboard reading 27-3 in our favor, many exuberant fans rushed the field to show their elation to our victouous team. But, in my opinion, they went just a little too far in their celebration when they attempted to pull down our goal post. Luckily, they did not · succeed in their folly for the weight of that steel goal post might have injured some innocent person and thus ruin what would otherwise have been a glorious day for our school. 
My first game from the view of a student. was an experience I' II never forget. I look forward with zeal to the many games that I will see in my next four years at Notre Dame. Simply put:Notre . Dotre football is the greatest. 

administration of either institution. Then~ws_is reported as accurately and as obJectively as possible. Editorials represe!"t t~e opinton of a majority of the Edt tonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to all members of ~he community, and. _the free expressiOn of varying opm10ns on campus, through letters, is 


, 
, 
1 
, 1 
~ 
, 
, ~ 
, 
~ 
,l


Viewpoint , ' 1 
Student Union Complimentary Ticket Policy 
When asked about the Ticket policy, Junior Tim Linehan said, ''I want to know what the prioritites were when the budget was approved. It's not th"t Tol-=-., ~o the free ticket policy, but if money is as sno •• ~s the Board says it is, it should be spent where the most students can use it. A good alternative to free tickets 
,would be to give volunteers preferential treatment to seat picks." 



Mary Ahern co-manages the Nazz. "Complimentary tickets are hardly compensation for the amount of time that the Student Union staff and volunteers put in." She notes that members often work 30 hours a week and says, "Complimentary tickets are not front row seats; better seats can be had in the lottery. I pay an · activity fee like everyone 1else. and I also put in the time to organize and run a few SU activities, so I do not think comp tickets are a misuse of the student's money.''. 
Finance major Rosemary Abowd: ''I don'tthink this is a 
Imatter ofwhether volunteers should be compensated or of whether SU or SG officials warrant compensation. What is the matter is the allocation of $2700 of student funds. These funds are to be allocated to benefit the greatest number of N.D. students. It seems that more people will directly benefit from these funds if they are used on Student Union events such as An Toatal or the Midwest Blues Festival.'' 
Farley resident Diane Clancy remarks that, "One of the main objectives of the Student Union is to service the Student body. Free concert tickets being allocated to Student Un10n volunteers is inconsistent with this objective. I think that future events· sponsored by the Student Union should be organized so that everyone who wants to participate will be able to--and that means without a certain percentage of the tickets going to a selected few. '' 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ................. .Mark Perry Managing Editor........ .. Diane Wilson Features Editor .. ...Kathleen Connelly Editorial Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian Senior Copy Editor ........ .M. Onufrak Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Bu_sines~ Manager........Steve Odland News Editor .................. .. Mark Rust Productzon Manager ...... .Tim Sullivan News Editor ................. Mike Shields Ad:••vert's·z zng Manager.........Bob Ru dy SMC Executive Editor ... .. Ellen Buddy Cont o"e K · M · 

r. ~~· r. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . evm an·ron necessarily ~c~ ti•" .,.,)ide~ o the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassrl Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
··-····;.. ---~~.~-~.,..,..,~~'!"!"'1~--~~~--....--------.;....----------.......------­

The Observer ,'Friday, October 5, 1979-page 10 

YOU BETTER BELIEVE THE BIRD WHEN IT SAYS O'HANLON'S HAS 

HEEP HE P HEEP 
BEER! WINE! LIQUOR! 
HUGE SELECTIONS OF FAMOUS BRANDS ••• ALL DISCOUNT PRICED! BEER VALUES: LIQUEURS & BRANDY SCOTCH 
A..S LIGHT--------12112 cans '3.59 CORDIALS: CHRISTIAN BROS.qt. 6.69 ns '12.79 GLENLIVET -----------5th '15.59 BUSCH ---------------loose '6.89 REMY MA"!TIN V.S. ____ sttl '15.89 TEACHER'S ------------qt. $9.59 BUD---------------· _ loose '6.89 HIRAM WALKER: COURVOISIER V.S. ----st" 112.79 CATTO'S _qt. ... '6.19 L1.75 '11.1§. BLATZ________ 12112 no return 2.69 PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPSqt.14.69 MARTELL V.S. O.P.•••• 5tt\ '14.49 JOHNNIE WALKER RED ••qt '9.98 MICHELOB______ 416 nc. return 11:§9 FLAVORED BRANDIES--qt.'5.39 MEISTER BRAND ______ sth '10.69 BLACK --------------qt. '13.89 
light 4!6 no return------'1.99 AMARETTO ------------qt.'6.69 HENNESSY V.S. -------5th f~ 49J & B ---------1.75 '18.39 qt.'9.99 
MILLER----------12112 ··ans '3.51 CREME DE MENTH _____ qt1 4.89 METAXA 5-STAR -------sth •s.lr, CHIVAS REGAL us'26.79 5th'11.59 
12112 no return ------·--'3.51 TRIPLE SEC -----------qt.'4.89. CALVADOS -----------5th '11 u_ BULLOCH & LADES -----Qt. '7.39 
MILLER LITE _____ 12112 cans '3.69 SLOE GIN -------------qt'5.09 PAUL MASSON st~ 5' 49 PINCH-----------------5th '9.99 
'3 69 AMARETTO & COGNAC. sth$5.98 KORBEL --------Sth f5.29 PASSPOFJT _1.75 ... '11.29 Qt. '6.19
12112 

no return -------·-· ---------------· CUTTY SARK '18 09 '10 29 
HEINEKEN LIGHT416 no return '3.89 TIA MARIA-------------5th '8.69 ALMADEN -------------5t~ 14.98 --175 ' qt. , · 
FAL.UAFF -----------loose' ~.79 DRAMBUIE ____________ 5th '10.99 OLD SMUGGLER-------qy. 6.19 
OLD MILWAUKEE ----looseS. 791 GRAND MARNIER -----5th 113.49 TEQUILA MAKINTOSH 1.75. '10.49 qt. '5.59 
PABS!' --------------loose •5.49 KAHLUA ---------------sth '7.89 USHER~ ---1.75. . '11.69 qt. '6.39 
u\,ht 12112 cans-----~---'13.29 A~ARETTO Dl SARANNOsth '10.69 ARANDAS WHITE _______ qt. '5·59 DEWAR'S --1.75. '17.89 qt. '9.99 
69

'9 .. -9 GALLIANO ' 79 CUERVO WHITE ---------Qt. '6·79 Vat 69 Qt 5 98 STROHS ·------------loose 1;.79 BENEDICTINE _________ 5th '11.49 MONTE ALBAN MEZCAL sth · GRANTS---"' ... '10.49 
light 12112 cans---------3 .4 : . ------------5th 10. • • SCHLITZ _____________ loose •6:&9 MANDARINE NAPOLEANsth '.10.99 RUM CANADIAN 
light 12~12 cans---------'3.89 COINTREAU -----------5th '9.29 BACARDI ---us.. '10.39 qt. '5.69 
Malt 416 cans--------___ '1.79 COCO RIBE______ ------5th S6.59 BACARDI 151 • ----------Qt. 18.39 WHISKEY OLYMPIA------------loose '6.98 CAFE LOLITA----------5th '5.39 APPLETON WHITE ______ sth '6.59 
Gold 12112 cans---------'3.69 PERNOD.---------_--__ 5th '6.99 LEMON HART DEMERARAsth '6.49 CANADIAN Cl"UB 17511,4.89 qt'7.98 HAMM'S -------------loose '6.49 CAMPARI ______________ 5th '7.29 CANADIAN LTD .1'16if0.09 qt.'5.39 OLD STYLE ••• 12112 no returns '3.98 SOUTHERN COMFORT--qt. '7.39 BOURBON -MACNAUGHTON --~ ,. •• .qt '6..09 LOWENBRAU ____ 416 no return '2.59 IRISH MIST------------5th ~10.19 WALKER'S DELUXE _____ qt. ,6_ WALKER'S --1.75 · 9.49 qt :5 49
29 

MOLSON'S ALE_ 416 no return '2.39 BOGGS CRANBERRY •••litre 9.89 ANCIENT AGE , WINDSOR •• 1.75 .. •10.98 ot. 'S.19
6 09 

CHAMPALE WHITE _____ 614 .•1.69 YUKON JACK----------stll '6.49 OLD FORESTER=====-;6: ~: CROWN ROYAL 1.75'22.98 5th'9.98
,7:19 

RED, WHITE & BLUE •• loose 5.39 MOLINARI SAMBUCA ---5th '8.59 --------------------100" qt. '9.1~ '',.. ----------1.75'14.79 qt '7.98 WEIL'"'"'II~N ----------loose •:;.29 METAXA OUZO --------5th '8.19 BARCLAY'S -------------Qt. '4.! .; CALVERT .1 75111.29 qt1 5.99 -.10L~-.;h ......, 'l. i. :ARAMELLA ----_______ sth •::..<+9 Olli GRAND DAD ___ 86" qt. '7.79 CANADIAN MIST u11.19'Qt.6.09 
MARASKA SLIVOVITZ ••• 5th '7.69 TEN HIGH --175 . '9.49 qt. '5.19 .
RETURNABLES: STREAGA _____________ 5th '10.99 JIM BEAM------------1.751 0.~9-CHAMPAGNES: BUSCH------------------'7.89 CHARTREl:JSE ---------5th '11.49 -----------------------qt. '5.69 BUD---------------------'7.89 GRANDTULLY ----------5th '5.99 -------------:·-------981 '21.89 ANDRE----------------5th '2.29 BRAUMEISTER -----------'4.39 LOCHAN ORA _________ 5th '12.29 JACK DANIELS --------51h '8.49 JACQUES BONET------5th '2.29 FALSTAFF---------------'6.29 PETER HERRING-------5th '8.59 EARLY TIMES175· '11.19 qt. '5.98 MARTINI & ROSSI ASTL 5th '8.09 FOX---------------------'4.39 FRANGELICI ----------5th •11 _19 MATTINGLY & MOORE 175 ~9.69 TAYLOR EX-DRY -------51h '5.09 HUBER------------------~9 WILD TURKEY LIQUEOR5th '12.79 ------------------;----qt. ,4·89 PAUL MASSON --------5th '6.39 MILLER-----------------· 7.59 BOLS BLUE CURACAO_ qt. '5.49 ANTIQUE.!.;.. 175· · · 10·89 qt. ?·~ 9 CHRISTIAN BROS. ______ 5th '5.39 MILLER LITE-------------'6.89 ARAK RAZZOUK -------5th '8.59 WILK TURKY --------86" 51h S,.09 LANSON FRENCH------5th '9.69 OLD MILWAUKEE ---'6.49 GIN MOET WHITE STAR ---5th '11.49 
1

PABST -------------· 5.49 VODKA ·MUMMS BRUT--------5th 13.39 
PFEIFFER--------------'4.59. STOLICHNAYA ---------5th '8.69 WALKER'S --1.~ . '9.59 qt. '4.99 RHINELANDER-----------'4.59 KAMCHATKA. 1.75.. S7.89 qt. S4.19 GILBEY'S •• 1.75. '10.29 qt. '5.49 WINES 
STROH'S ----------------'6.69 DARK EYE FLAVORED TANQUERAY175 ... .Jf5.49 1t 8.99
,4 29 

--5th · BOMBAy _____ _.:. _______ ltr. '9.09 1500 different types to chooso 'trom: SMIRNOFF __________ 1oo· qt '6.89 BELLOWS
QUARTS• • Cooo ,-------------1.75 '8.29 BLUE NUN _____________ 5th 4.59 BUSCH------------------'7.99 80" qt. -------------------'5.79 CALVERT S -----------1.75 ;8.98 MATEUS _______________ 51h S3.49 
BUD---------------------'7.99 DARK 8~~~~ -------·---------' 1,~~: f:l.elscHMANN'S·=====·; ts~.~: LANCERS ______________ 5th '3.8980' 
175 7
COLT 45-----------------'7.79 -------· KELLER GEISTER 51 1249
59 F•LSTAFF '6.98 ----1oo· qt.... '5.39 1oo• 1.75 '9.99 ---------1.75 1 . --------q. . " ---------------CROWN RUSSE1.75. '8 29 '4 29 -----------------------qt. '8.29 YAGO SANT GRIA ______ 5tl, '2.79 MILLER------------------'8.23 GORDON'S BOOTH'S ------------1.75 $10.59 RICHARDS WILD IRISH _5th '1.59 
BLATz___________________ '6.29 --------------------80• qt. '4. 8e-EFEATER____________ qts'543~9 REAL SANGRIA ------~ '2.99 
175 ~8 ·79 qt ,4·39

OLYMPIA----------------'7.1)~ --'. , . qt 1 • GORDON'S -1.75 ... '9.98 qt. 15.39 MOGAN DAVID CONCORD5th '2.09 9B WOLFSCHMIDT1.75... 9.39 qt 5.09 SEAGRAM'S '10 39 T J S
PABST -----------------· 6 • • POPOV ( '·g 1.75. . . . qt '5.59 . . WANN ____________ 5th '1.69
175 g 4

SCHLITZ-----------------'9.49 -------· • ~~ 4.3 . BOONES FARM--------5th '1.69 
STROH'S ----------------'7.95 BLENDED BOLLA ----------------6th '3.39 OLD ENGLISH 800 -------'7.99 BEER KEGS CRISTA BELLA _________ 5th 12.69 LITTLE KINGS -----------'6.98 '4 ...,.., ·~ ao...l WHISKEY CHERRY KIJAFA -------5th '4.49 BIG JUG-----------------'7.49 Mlller ••-------·--r$21.00 $33.50 CALVERT •• 1.75 .. '11.29 qt. '6.09 GIACOBAZZI LAMBRUSCO '2.49 
533 50

Miller Lite ••------------· SEAGRAM'S1.75 . . $11.39 qt. $6.19 RIUNITE LAMBRUSCO --5th 2.49
Pabst. ••••• __ -----$20.50 $32.50 Strohs. -----------$20.50 $32.50 PHILADELPHIA 175 . '8.98 qt. '4.89 CELLA LAMBRUSCO•••• 5th '2.29 Busch-----------------$31.00 KESSLER'S 1.75 .. 11.Qgq,~5.89 1 MEDICI L4MBRUSCO ••• 5tll 2.39 
520 50 532 50

Budweiser --------·· P.M. DELUXE1.75. '8.89 qt. '4.t;!J. ZONIN LAMBRUSCQ ____ 5t~ '2.19
Mlchelob ••• _____ •• $22.00 $40.00 Helnekens -------------$69.00 IMPERIAL•• 1.75. '9.59 qt '5.49 CHATEAU LASALLE ----5th '2.49 
* ~Cheaper sa~s, "WE'RE CHEAP" ... ask. our competition! 




' PRICES GOOD AT BOTH STORES:

f)'llllNJ..f)N'S 
• 1935 Lincolnway East, So. Bend 287-2861
1trlllll~llf)IJSI~
J.. IfltJ()JlS • 4401 Western Ave., So. Bend 282·2844 
~™











The Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supplement 

tctortes answrer questtons for coaches Devine, Rogers 
by Brian Beglane Sports Wn'ter 
You might call Notre Dame's 27-3 victory last Saturday over Michigan State an "enlightenment" for several reasons. First, and foremost, the Irish offense finally got into gear, racking up three touchdowns while controlling the line of scrimmage most of the game. Secondly, Notre Dame cleared two of the three Big Ten hurdles blocking the first part of its schedule and heads into tomorrow's 1:30 match­up with Georgia Tech at Notre Dame Stadium with a 2-1 record. 
Many people did not expect Notre Dame's record to be tilted towards the win column after this three-stop tour of the Big 10 neighborhoods. But the Michigan State victory seems to have answered a lot of questions, especially for Irish coach Dan Devine. 
"I would like to think that maybe we have turned the corner," explains Devine. "We may have created some questions for ourselves in the Purdue game, but I think we answered an awful lot of them with our performance against Michigan State." 
Are those answers permanent? That is what the Irish will have to prove tomorrow afternoon against the 1-1-1 Yellow Jackets, a 33-7 winner over William & Mary last week. ''I guess the key to the Georgia Tech game --and to the rest of the season for that matter --is maintaining the kind of intensity ~e had against Michigan State," Devine says. "We 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wnter 
A group-of young boys are playing basketball at the local playground on a hot summer afternoon. One little guy starts bringing the ball up court when he proclaims, "Here comes Magic!" He then dishes off a simple pass to his waiting teammate who continues the play-by-play. "Keiser rams it home," ~s the lay-up rolls around the rim and 
10. 
Fantasy. Webster defines it as an "allusion, an imaginative poem, play, etc.'' Every. child fantasizes at one time or another. But as he or she grows older and wiser, most dreams fizzle into reality. Most do, not all. 
A little ten-year-old in Kansas City, Mo., used to imitate his favorite football player, placekicker "'­Jan Stenerud. He'd tee up the ball in 
played with a great deal of enthusiasm and emotion and did a great job of controlling the line of scrimmage both offensively and defensively. When that happens, everything else falls into place. If we can main tam that kind of play week to week, we've got a good chance ~f having a very good football season. 
The Yellow Jackets, who have won only four of the 27 meetings with the Irish, were trounced 30-6 in their nationally televised season opener against Alabama and tied two weeks ago versus Florida. Admittedly, they are not the favorites going into tomorrow's contest. 
"Obviously, we will be the under­dogs against Notre Dame," says Georgia Tech head coach Pepper Rodgers, now in his sixth season with the Yellow Jackets. 
''You can never tell what is going to happen in a game, however, and that is one of the reasons college football is such a great game. 
"To have any chance of winning against Notre Dame we will have to stop Vagas Ferguson. He was sensational against us last year (gain­ed 255 yards, sin~le-game Irish rush­ing record) and ts one of the finest running backs in the country. But Ferguson does not do it all alone. Notre Dame is a talented team at every position and is so big it is frighten­mg." 
Tech's romp over William & Mary last week appears to have served much (continued !on ~page 14) 
Insh Coach Dan Devine ponders whether or not hts team has turned the corner. [Photo by Dave Rumbach.] 
Male's fantasy helps Irish dreams 
divot he'd make with his heel and then 
try kicking it with the side of his foot as 
far as he could, maybe 15 or 20 yards, 
dreaming about someday bemg a 
big-time field goal kicker. 
Yes, Notre Dame fans, this young dreamer was Chuck Male. 
His family moved from Missouri to Indiana, Mishawaka to be exact. His new house had a big back yard, big enough for this kicking fantasy to continue. Chuck wasted little time in building his own goal posts out of two 
long branches driven .t•n into the ground 
with a third branch tied on as a cross 
bar. He would kick whenever the 
spirit moved him, and the distance and 
accuracy slowly improved. 
Let Male continue the story. 
''I played halfback when I was in 
seventh grade," he reminisces. "I 
asked the coach if I could kick, and he 
thought I was kiddin~. Somehow, I 
talked him into letttng me try.'' 
Male's team eventually became the 
only one in the age bracket (12-13) that 
kicked extra points. 
No Notre Dame dream story would be complete without a kid who always ·wanted to go to Notre Dame. That's 
Male. 
I 

and played behind fel­low Jumor Joe Unis at the start of the 1978 season. He continued to wait. In game four, 
Not recruited by the Irish, Male ·applied like everybody else and, like the vast majority, · was rejected. But after two years at Western Michigan; he was able to transfer to Notre Dame. Now on the brink of his ultimate fantasy of the Big-time, Male waited patiently for his chance to prove himself. Male walked 
·.·.'~···:.\,
•.· ...•... ·..···.:·1\••.•. onto the Irish squad
'··.:'
.-.-· ··.' 
} 
the opportunity arose. Chuck Male ''The way things. ( had been ~oing up to
/2. ·~ 
that time,' he recalls, 
....r~ 
-----~--­
"it didn't look like I'd get in." But Dan Devine saidjo, and Male went in for his first fiel goal attmept against the Spartans of Michigan State in East Lansing. 
He shanked it. "I just wasn't mentally prepared," he says. 
But there were other opportunities and Male connected on nine of his next ten attempts before his final attempt ended his season a week early. 
The second-to-last game of the year was in Atlanta against Georgia Tech. Following a first half Irish score, Male lined up for a routine kick-off. But on his follow through, something sna~­ped. He had torn ligaments in hts kicking leg, the right one. He limped over to the sidelines for treatment. 
''They iced it down, and I was told by the trainers that I was out of the game," says Male. But because of a communication mishap on the Irish sidelines, the coaches were not in­formed. "With two seconds left in the half, the coaches yelled, 'Male, kick a field goal.' So, like an idiot, IJ"umped up, direw the ice off, and pulle up my pants. I didn't even have them tied when l tried the kick.'' The kick hit the crossbar and bounced back. But more significantly, the ligament damage was worse. • 
It is tough for any athlete to pull himself out of a contest. Maybe if he'd thought about it, he might have said something. But Male's dream was coming true. Understandably, he did not want to admit he was hurt. 
(continued on. page l~~ 
,1 
, 
,1 
, 
~ 
1 




-----------~-~-
ThelnSliExtra\ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
,
, 
~ 
by Bill McCormick Sports Wnler 
It was about an hour before the opening kickoff of last Saturday's football game between Notre Dame and Michigan State. Seated in the stadium locker room, Brendan Moynihan listened anxiously as Notre Dame head coach Dan Devine read the starting lineup aloud. 
When it was announced that Moynihan would start at left lineback­er, the junior from Toledo, Ohio, knew that he had ftnally accomplished his long-awaited goal. 
Moynihan came to Notre Dame two years ago with impressive credentials. He was an all-state ferformer for St. John's High Schoo in Toledo his senior year. In addition to lettering three tunes in football at St. John's, Moynihan lettered twice in track. He was also named to the prep all-aca­demic team in Ohio. 
that Moynihan would be given playing time as a junior.  more  
So  when  senior  linebacker  Mike  

Despite the fact that Moynihan played linebacker throughout high school, he was converted to strong safety when he arrived at Notre Dame. 
At six-foot-three and 190 pounds, Moynihan was not quite big enough to play linebacker on the college level. Thus, he went through the difficult process of leamio~ how to play a new position. Mo~ IWl trouble adjusq to strong safety and saw only limded action for the ~ varsity in his finr. year. He was disenchanted ..,_ his situation at Notte Dame. 

··-·-·------­
-----------~--------------------------------------------~~--------------------------------------~~.. 
-~-----------·--------~----·-· 
, 
Brendan Moynihan 
However, in the spring of his freshman year, something happened which turned everything around for Brendan Moynihan. The coaching staff, aware of the problems that Moynihan was havin~ at strong safety, decided to switch him back to line­backer, his natural position. Line­backer coach, George Kelly, informed Moynihan that he would have to build himself up ifhe hoped to see action for. the varsity squad. · 
Excited by his new opportunity, Moynihan began an intense weisht program during the summer foUcnnng his freshman year. With a areat deal 
--------·-· --­
Friday, October 5, 1979-page 12 
Tim Huffman steps out of brother Dave's shadoUJ 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
Last year, it wasn't at all difficult to spot Notre Dame's center, Dave Huffman. All you had to do was locate Huffman's red elbow _pads, which 
contrasted q_uite nicely wuh his green and gold umform. 
And once you spotted Notre Dame's All-American center, picking out his little brother Tim was no problem. He was usually right next to Dave, occupying the right guard position for the Insh. 
Dave Huffman and his red elbow pads are gone now, but nobody is having any trouble spotting Tim. Actually, peor.le stood up and took notice last fal , enough to decide that Dave wasn't the only Huffman worthy of All-American status. 
''It is a little bit different without Dave here," says Tim. "For the last 
·two years, we worked pretty well as a 
team. And now, when I get in trouble, 
I'll have to take care of myself." 
'... I like to be compared 
to him because he was good...' 
Huffman didn't have too much opportunity to get into trouble during the ftrst two weeks of the season after he was sidelined early in the Michigan contest with a back injury. The six-foot-ftve, 262-pounder returned to the lineup forSaturday's 27-3 thrash­ing of Michigan State, and helped the Irish to easily their most impressive offensive performance of the young season. 
of hard work, he managed to increase his bulk by twenty pounds. Thus, bringing a muscular, six-foot-three, 210 pound frame back to school in the fall of his sophomore year, Moynihan felt conftdent about his upcoming season. 
The hard work and dedication over that summer really paid off. Moynihan became a regular performer on the specialty teams dunng his sophomore year, and he also saw some action in relief of Steve Heimkreiter at left linebacker. In the annual Blue-Gold game, the intrasquad contest played at the end of spring drills, Moynihan recorded nine tackles and impressed the coaches with his speed and aggressiveness. The fact that two starting linebackers, Heimkreiter and Bob Golic, graduated last year meant 
Whittington injured his le~ in this year's Purdue game, Moynihan was called on to start against Michigan State at left linebacker. 
Moynihan's performance on Saturday was solid. He managed two solo tackles, and he assisted on four others. Yet, aside from these statis­tics, the· real importance of last Saturday's game to Brendan Moynihan was that be experienced what he considers his greatest accom­plishment, eamina a staeting position at Notte Dame. 
crucial to the offensive line, in terms of 
feeling each other out and getting used 
to each other. " 
Over the past several years, Notre 
Dame's offensive line has needed a 
game or two to get things into high 
gear, and it was usually Dave Huffman 
who provided the impetus ·· through 
example or otherwise. 
"When the offensive line got down, 
he was the one who got us going,'' 
recalls Huffman. "He'd always be the 
frrst one to go out there and really 
clock somebody.'' 
Leadership is one area where Tim 
doesn't feel capable of emulating his 
older brother. 
"I can show by example," says 
Huffman. But it seems like I'm kind of 
at odds with everyone .. I'm kind of a 
renegade. I guess I'm not as 
disciplined a player as I should be, and 
I don't know tf me taking a leadership 
role would go over really well.'' 
Despite the obvious talent similar­
ities, Tim doesn't consider himself 
the same type of player as his brother. 
"Dave was a really physical player. He took joy in inflictmg pain on the opponent," laughs Tim. "He just knocks the' heck~u tof whoever appears before him. " 
Although his imposing size would seem to indicate otherwise, Tim claims that he can't get away with beating up on defensive linemen. 
''I used to be able to bowl people over," he says. "But now I have to rely on technique and ftnesse." 
For Dave, football is now a full-time job. As a rookie center for the Minnesota Vikings, he has little idle time to pass away. But the Huffmans keep in touch by phone as often as possible, although they stay away from shop talk. 
''We try to avoid talking about football," says Tim, "since we're both surrounded by it. It's really nice to be able to forget about it for a while.'' 
Even with Dave gone, though, the comparisons are inevitable. But that's all nght with Tim. 
"Sometimes I get tired of it, because if people are always talking about him, maybe you think you're not as good," he says. "But I like to be compared to him because he was good, so people are saying that you're a good player, too." 
Good enough that he doesn't need his brother's elbow pads. 
• • • Male 
(continued from page 11) A phenomenal start this season has thrust Male into the limelight. With a healthy and strengthened leg, he has connected on eight straight field goal attempts (a Notre Dame record), ftve straight conversions, and has boomed numerous kick-offs beyond return. His recent accomplishments were recognized by NBC-TV with a taped interview on "The Today Show" and other national media. But Male has handled all of this quite well. "It's all nice, he admits, "and I'd be lying if I said I didn't like it1 but I. can't forget what my job is. After the Michigan game (in which Male scored all of Notre Dame's points in the 12-10 win) a friend of mine said, 'You've got your night tonight, but tomorrow you're going back to just being a kicker.' That's the way I ve got to look at it. That's what I do, I kick the ball. "I trained all spring and summer with my sights on an eleven game season and, hopefully, a bowl game. That's it. My sights aren't on 'The Today Show' or on publicity or on the record books. None of that's worth a bucket of spit if you don't win.'' Like every other kid, Chuck Male fantasized. But as he ~ older and 
. his dream .c:b L.:­
wtser, .~ ~ . ~1&.. ~,. • 


·---------­
The Irish Extta Friday, October 5, f979-page 13 


For 134 years 
ND Band 'shakes down thunder' 
by Beth Huffman Women's Sports Editor Good afternoon -ladies and gentlemen ... The University of J:lotre Dame proudly presents zts marching band in its one hundred and thirty-fourth year and ninety second football sea­son ... and her it is ... the band of the Fighting Irish ... 
With Frank Amussen's announce­ment, the Notre Dame Marching Band I begins its pre-game show. A behind­the-scene look at the band's prepara­tion for game-show highlights reveals much time and dedication from the band members and their direc.tors. 
The band's week actually begins with rehearsals Monday through Friday. Following Friday's rehearsal the band traditionally steps off for the pep rally at Stepan Center. 
Home football Saturdays start early for the Irish with rehearsal beginning at 8:30a.m. After an early lunch and the distribution of hats, the band meets and warms up for the customary pre-game concert on the steps of the Administration Building. Immediately following the concert, which includes all of the tunes in the day's show and a few other selections, is the inspection of the band and the Irish Guard. 
Step-off for the stadium usually begins from Washington Hall 50 minutes prior to kick-off. Irish fans gather with the band and group behind for the march. 
The band, which performed 71 times publicly last year and average of three times a week, is one of the prim~ factors of motivation behind the spirit of the Fighting Irish. 
"Music is' a very potent force when it amounts to anythtng spirited. It is important when we play the fight song, it inspires winmng. When we are losing It urges the team and students on. Most people don't realize it, but whether we win or lose we always play the fight son~ outside the lockerroom for the team,' says Robert O'Brien, in his 27th year as the band's director. 
The band, rich in tradition after 134 years of existence, was America's first university band. Historic Irish greats such as Knute Rockne, who played the flute, and Moose Krause, a clarinet player, contributed to the sound of the Irish band in their time. 
Since the first football game against Michigan in 1887, the band has been supporting the Irish teams and travel­ing across the country as official Notre Dame representatives at athletic events. 
Last year, the band was the majority 
debate in Scholastic magazine argued this point. At the pep rally the following week, Irish asszstant coach 
johnny Murphy spoke to a compara­lively tame crowd in the old Field House, appalled at the undertone on campus aliout football players and the game itself 
Thanks to the preservation efforts of 
\ t 
Dick Callahan ['.55], we bring you the moving andinspiring '!speech ofCoach Murphy. • • • 
First of all, for the past nine weeks, nine Saturdays, I have spent pretty much travellmg from coast to coast scouting. The ftrst remark that is always cast upon coach (Brad) Lynn
Iand myself is ''What's the matter with Notre Dame?" of course, the implica­tion being,"What's the matter with 
1Notre Dame football?'' Personally, I don't think there's anything . wrong Nith Notre Dame football. However, I do think there are some things wrong in other spots. 
Down through the years, teams of yesteryear, the teams you have read tbout, admired, teams who played with a zeal almost unmatched in ::ollege spon, were teams that were playing because ~ received a tre· mendous amount of respect from the 
Batu/Me,ber BniCe Leibert entertains the Notre Dame throngs. 
stu~~nts, ·a tremendouS amount ol
.......:""·"' 
of the Irish cheering section at the Cotton Bowl. Despite the bad weather and weather-related mishaps, the band contributed to the day's events. 
''It was one of the coldest days I can remembet for a football game. Ten members of the band suffered frost­bite. The wheels of our trailer froze so we could not get our instruments in time to play in the parade. Even the equestrian troops couldn't perform-­they marched without their horses. We even had to knock the ice off our stadium seats with drumsticks. Now that's dedication;" says O'Brien of the New Year's Day fiasco. 
This year the band will travel to Tokyo with the football team for the Thanksgiving weekend super match. Two hundred people, including 197 band members and three directors, will make the trip to the Orient for a week packed with performances. 
"Musicians always play for their dinner," says O'Brien, and indeed the Irish band will be playing for their dinner and much more to Japan. 
The band will participate in two parades and two stand-up concerts along with a television appearance. One concert, in the Professional Stadium, is expected to draw a crowd exceeding 50,000 people. The concert will feature the Notre Dame and Miami bands along with popular ] apanese jazz artists. 
"It is going to be the greatest experience of my life," says band president David Wurzer. "It'll be hard work, with not much free time, but just being there and the experi­ence should be enough." 
Wurzer, who serves as a liaison between the students and directors, has some ideas for essential qualities in a band member. "You have to be quite spirited to put in the amount of tune required. It takes quite a lot of pride to be in band and you have to be quite rah-rah. . 
"We provide a service to the University. We are doing this volun­tarily and should not be taken for granted," stresses Wurzer. 
O'Brien also expresses the extreme amount of dedication among band members. "We give up a lot, including vacations, because we want to." 
Besides recognition and personal satisfaction, the band receives little reward. Only three $1,000 scholar­ships are offered each year to band members. Incumbents retain their scholarships until graduation, redu­cing the actual number of band members able to receive the aid. 
As for band unity, Associate Direc­tor of Bands, James S. Phillips, comments, ''There is a very strong bond among band members." 
Besides spending much rehearsal time together, the band also gathers after games for refreshments and a social hour. O'Brien calls the group comrades in music. 
The band publishes a newsletter, the Ftfer (previously called The Fifing Irish) to help keep band members up to date on band happenings. Many band alumni stay involved by subscri­bing to the Ftfer. 
"Band is one facet of university life, one of many organizations that makes Notre Dame what is is,'' says Phillips. 
Indeed, the band does contribute to the uniqueness of Notre Dame. When the band performs the famous "Hike Step Routme," when the Irish guard, under the leadership of Chris Digan, performs the Irish clog in the tradi­tional Notre Dame kilts, and when the band, led by drum major Dan Bueche, forms the vtctory shamrock, the trade. mark of Notre Dame is presented. 
"One of the most effective lines from the 'Notre Dame Victory March' is 'shake Clown the thunder from the sky.' The University of Notre Dame Band has been shaking down the thunder from the sky for more than a century and hopes to continue to do so for generations to come. The Notre Dame Band proudly feels that its tradition points out the viability and the eternal youth that si~nifies the American Band of today, ' --taken from The University of Notre Dame Marching BandPregame and Halftime Program. 

'Players are not animals ; they're Notre Dame men' 
Tonight's "Wreck Tech" pep rally will probably be standard. The Stepan Center will be packed with students, parents, alumni, andother fans yelling and screaming so loud that no one will be able to hear any ofthe speakers. The indoor temperature wtl! probably be near 100 degrees, but somehow, everyone will be happy. 
It wasn't always tliis way. Turn the clock back to 1962. The Insh football team had had on~y two winning seasons over the preceding six years. Believe it or not, there were actually a 
·number ofpeople who thought football at Notre Dame should be terminated. In the fall ofthat year, a two-page 
The Insh Guard 
respect from the faculty, from the priests. To go into a classroom and have some professor or some group of >tudents make snide remarks about their intelligence was unheard of. 
I'm sorry to say that can't be said at the present time. We expect these boys to go out week after week, and perform with the zeal of a crusader. At the same time, these boys go to their room and pick up a student publica­tion, and see a debate on double-palte coverage as to whether the University of Notre Dame should even be playing the game of football. 
This may be put up with at Slippery · 1ock. At Notre Dame this is heresy. 
Or they may read in the same publication, the reference that football nen are animals. I think it was stated Jlat they were performing, trained animals performing on Saturday after-noon-something to that effect. 
I have known Notre Dame football l>layers for years. Football players 11ave left here and have become leaders in every phase and endeavor in American life . In medicine, in religion, in education, science, poli­tics. You name the field, Notre Dame football players have excelled in it in some part of the country .. 
Of all these I can recall, and I can ~ecall some tremendous stories to you, 'nere's one I would like to tell you 
:~.bout. 
This was a Notre Dame captain in 1942. I knew this guy pretty well. He left Notre Dame and became a Marine lieutenant. He was sent overseas, to Okinawa. DurinB. the COIJ!Se ofa battle ,. 1n Sugar Loaf Hill on Okinawa, one of · his boys· was hit by enemy fire and 
· started screaming for help. This animal run out and picked him up,· tried to get him to cover. While he was trying to get to cover, he was instantly Ulled by a monar shell. The boy he picked up was still alive. As I said, I knew !his ·IUY pretty J . 
k · ued 00· _.) ' 1 ~ 
............. 

--------------------------------·-------------------------------------------• iiiilliiiiiiiiiiliiiiiilliiiiliiiiil-iiiiiicoo&lunliiil••paae••1•i1·····~,L 
_:,. 


The Irish Extta 
Irish-Jackets 
D1te: October 6, 1979 Site: Notre Dame Stadlum(59,075) Time: 1:30 p.m. EST R1dlo: WSND·AM 64 (campus only), Skip Desjardin and "Wild" Bill Derr1osevl 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network, AI Wester and Pat Sheridan Television: WNDU·TV, Ch. 16 (local only), Tom Denln and Jeff Jeffers Series: Notre Dame 23. GeorQia Tech 4 1 ,List Meeting: Novenber 18, 1978 -Notre Dame 38, Georgia Tech 21 R1nklnga: 
Notre Dame 10th (AP), 9th (UPI); Georola Tech Is unranked. 
Recorda: 
Notre Dame 2-1 , Georgia Tech '1-1-1 



Pepper Rogers Head Coach 31-26-2 [6th year] 
OFFENSE 
PLAYER HT. WT. CL. 
George Moore 6-3 224 Jr. Clint Momon 6-3 239 Sr. Steve Walker 6-2 235 
Jr. Scott Simmons 6-4 258 Sr. Ben Utt 6-4 250 
Jr. David Lutz 6-6 255 Fr. Kris Kentera 6-1 180 So. Mike Kelly 6-3 191 So. Bo Thomas 5-8 182 Sr. 
Darrell Heflin 5-10 183 Sr. Leon Chadwivk 5-10 176 Jr. Ted Peo~les 6-0 200 Jr 
Johnny mlth 5-9 180 Jr. 
DEFENSE 
AI Richardson 6-3 211 Sr. Rick Olive 6-5 240 
So. lvey Stokes 5-11 222 
Jr. Lynwood Volley 6-1 223 
Jr. Lance Skelton 6-0 198 
So. Sr.
Hen~ Johnson 6-2 226 Sr.
Bill ale~ 5-10 200 
So. Ken Taylor 6-1 192 
Kevin Sc mid! 6-1 177 
Jr. Mark Sheffield 6-2 193 
Fr. Lawrence Lowe 6-4 197 
Jr. 
Dan Devine 
Head Coach 
39-11-0 (5th year] 
OFFENSE 
POS. PLAYER HT. WT. 
TE Dean Masztak 6-4 220 LT Rob Martinovich 6-5 260 LG John Leon 6-2 240 c John Scully 6-4 245 RG Tim Huffman 6-5 265 RT Tim Foley 6-5 265 SE Tony Hunter 6-5 210 QB Fusty Lisch 6-4 210 HB Vagas Ferguson 6-1 194 FB John Sweeney 6-3 211 FL Pete Holohan 6-4 215 p Dick Boushka 6-4 190 PK Chuck Male 5·11 180 
DEFENSE 
LE John Hankerd 6-4 241 LT Scott Zettek 6-5 235 RT Joe Gramke 6-4 234 RE Mark Czaja 6-5 240 LLB Mike Whittington 6-2 219 MLB Bob Crable 6-3 220 ALB Bobby Leopold 6-2 217 LCB Dave Duerson 6-2 187 RCB John Krlmm 6-1 183 ss Steve Cichy 6-3 215 FS Tom Gibbons 6-1 185 CL. 
So. Sr. Sr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Fr. Sr. Sr. Fr. Jr. Jr. Sr. 
Jr. Jr. So. Jr. Sr. So. Sr. Fr. So. So. Jr. 
POS. 
TE QT OG 
c 
SG ST 
SE QB TB FB FL 
p 
PK 
OLB LE NG RE OLB SLB WLB LCB 
RCB 
ss 
FS 
IRISH EXTRA SUPPLEMENT STAFF Editor, Mark Perry Layout and Design-Paul Mullane}' & John Smith 
Friday, October ) , 1979 -page 14 

Rusty Lisch will once again lead the charges. [Photo by}ohn Macor.] 
• • . Answer 
(continued from page II) 
the same purpose as Notre Dame's, 
victory over MSU. 
"It seems like Georgia Tech answered a lot of questions for Pepper in its victory over William & Mary,'' Devine says. ''Their quarterback, Mike Kelley, obviously can throw the b'all probably as well as Mark Herrmann or anyone else we'll see this year. And it looks like they've settled their running back situation, particularly if their leading rusher, Ronny Cone, keeps performing the way he did Saturday (I22 yards on 18 carries). Everything seemed to click for them and a game like that, especially when it's your first victory, can do a lot for a team." 
Looking at the other side of the coin, perhaps the most important result of last Saturday's win for the Irish over the Spartans was the return of quarterback Rusty Lisch to the lineup after an ankle injury sidelined him against Purdue. The senior signal caller completed seven of 11 attempts through the air and threw for one touchdown. 
To complement Lisch and Ferguson on the offense junior Jim Stone and sophomore Bernie Adell also were impressive at the halfback slot against MSU. 
''I have to feel pretty good about our running back situation at this point,'' Devine says, "despite the fact we have lost both Dave Mitchell and Pete Buchanan at fullback. Ferguson, Stone and Adell give us all the depth we need at halfback, and we'll continue to use John Sweeney, Tr. Barber and Tony Belden as well as Phtl Carter at fullback." 
' ' ' Fans 

(continued from page 13) well. He was my brother. This is an animal? How do you judge a man? It's what men do for men. Can you do any more than lay down your life for your fellow man? This was a Notre Dame football player, sometimes referred to in a student publication, published on the campus of Notre Dame, referred to as an animal. When that sort of thing happens, it's a desecration to every famous name that ever walked through this university. And as long as that sort of thing happens, you're asking too much, to ask a bunch of kids like this to go out and play dedicated football. If you expect them to play dedicated football, you have to be dedicated. You have to believe in them. They're part of your group. They're not animals. They're men, Notre Dame men!!!! 
Observer scribes take another look into cr_ystal_football 


Michael Ortman Paul Stauder 
' Mark .,.rry PIUI 
Mull1ney Beth Huffman 
Frank l.IGrotta Craig Chval 
Brian B~lane 
S~rts Writer Sports Writer 
Sports Writer WSND Sports Director
~rts Editor Asst. Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor 
Sports riter 
33-13, .717 30-16, .652
12, .739 32-14, .696 34-12, .739 
2-14, .696 31-15, .674 33-13, .717 
Calltornl• 
California California
California California
California California Oregon 
California 
at 011g0n 
by 2 by4
by7 by 2 by3 
by 10
by6 by 12 
Clemson Clemson
Clemson Clemson
Clemson Clemson Clemson
Vl~ll'll 
Clemson 
at lemson 
by? by6 
by6 by 12
by 10 by 14 by? 
by9 
Oklahoma Oklahoma 
Oklahoma Oklahoma
Colorado 
Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma' 
Oklahoma 
by 13 by 17 
by 14 by14
at Okllhollll 
by13 by 14 by9 
by 15 
I 

Iowa Iowa )
IOWI 
Iowa Illinois
Iowa Iowa Iowa 
Iowa 
by2 by12 r
by5 by6
a\ Illinois 
by3 by3 by3 
by6 
Indiana 
Indiana Wisconsin 
Wisconsin Indiana
Indiana Indiana Indiana 
Indiana 
at WIICOMin 
by5 by2
by7 by4 by6 
by2 by3
by7 
' 

.,.nn Stlte 
Penn State Maryland 
Penn State Penn State
Maryland Penn State Maryland 
Penn State 
atMiryland 
by6 by 11 
by8 by3
by2 by7 by? 
by 12 
Michigan State 
Michigan State Michigan
Michigan State Michigan State 
Michlvan MichiBan
M=n 
Ml~r
at M pn S1ltl 
by by 
by3 by8
by?
by4 by 1 
Purdue Purdue Purdue 
Purdue Minnesota
Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue 
at MllltiiiOtl by9 by17 by 14 
by3 by9 
by 18 
by7 by1 
PittsburghPittsburgh Pittsburgh
llltlnCIIIIgl Plttstugh Pittsburgh Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh Pittsburgh
by9by4 by14 
by 14 by11
at Ptttlllurgll by17 by24 by6 
StanfordUCLA UCLA 
UCLA UCLA
UCLA UCLA UCLA UCLA 
by7 by? 
by 5 
by4 by6
It S1ltlflnl by3 by7 by3 
Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal 
Southern Cal Sou1hern Cal
Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal 
by10 by21 by14 
by12 by17
I -
by14 by 19 by12 
I 
Texas Tech Texas Tech 
TexasA&M 
TexasA&M Texas A&M
'-AIM TwsA&M Texas Tech TexasA&M 
by 10 
by4 byS
by6 by10
I ltT-TICII by7 by3 by 1 

Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Notre Dame
Notre Dame
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame
=TIIII 
by9 by13 
by 10 
by16 byll
J. 0.. by 14 by 13 by10 
-·--------­



The Observer ~Friday, qctober 5: 1979 ;: page ·li · 
~ 

272-2522 
WE HAVE MIXERS 
PRICES IN TOWN''! 
SA.M.I PRICE WARM OR COLD. 
2.112 oz 
CANS-PRICE
BRAND 
Stroh's~----------~-------------5.99 Hamm'5-------------------------5.59 Blatz----------------------------6.09 Busch~--------------------------6.69
Black Laoel.....,___________________ 5.19 
Old MilwauKee------.--------------5.59 Budweiser•--~-------------------6.79 Old Style -.:.---------------------6.29 
Schlitz--------------------------·5.99 
A.B. Lignt.:..----------------------6.99 _ MichelobReg or L·~hl-------------------7.4~ Heineken -----------------------14.75 Lowenbrau u1eordar1<--..----------------9.59 
Olympia_..,_______________________ 6.99 
Pabst---------------------------5.39 Miller's--------------------------6.79 
M'll ' L't 6 99 
1 er s 1 e•---------------------· . Falstaff:--·----------------------4.79 Weideman.;.----------------------5.19 
Goebels----------------------·5.59 
Fox Deluxe~ ------------------3.99 
Braumeister----------------·3.99 
E'VE GOT KEGS! 

750ML Replace~ 5tla  ,,~WAurtft ~ TEN HIGH __,~IIQ4IIIIG" .....__......:;~;......  
.  All Prleea Good Tbru Oct. e. f. ' I  



Features 

, October 5, 1979 ­
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
Years Like Great Black Oxen 

In the expensive restaraunt with .the Tiffany lamps, the young man lit a tina! cigarette. The young ~or:na~ watching him knew that their tntl­macy was over, and the affair was ending. 
"Well," she said, "it's finished between us." "It's finished," he agreed. Then, half humorously; "Any regrets'1?" 
''No/she said, '' no regrets ~' The words hung between them in the smoke like an epitaph to romance. The words were only half-truth, as epitaphs often are. There are always re8rets, wa!tin~ like black, venomous spiders spmnmg suffocating webs across the open spaces of the mind. As long as you know that affairs could have gone differently, regrets swarm through the mind like mice invad!ng the pantry of a house and destroymg and fouling as much as they devour. "We were wise," he said, "never to make each other promises." 
"Oh sure," she said b4tterly. "This way, neither of us owes the other a damn thing." 
"Only respect," he said, "and gratitude. We'll always owe each other those.'' 
"Thanks a lot," she said. "It's nice to know you are grateful.'' 
"Well I am," he said. "You've been a darn good sport, and I'll never forget it." 
"A man's gratitude is such a comfort to have," she said. "Some 
men never remember to tell a girl that they're grateful." "Some girls aren:t as swell as you've been," he said. 
"It's funny though," sh~ said, "hearing you talk about owmg me gratitude." . .. . 
''Gratitude and respect, he said. ''They're the sincerest feelings a fellow can have." 
"It sounds very impersonal," ~he said, "as though you were talkmg about your teacher or the clergyman of your choice.'' 
"Why gosh," he said, "you kn.ow how personal I feel bout you. Saym~ goodbye like this makes me practi­cally want to cry.'' 
"How can you make love to some­one '' she said ''and then say you nev~r promised them anything? I wouldn't have let you even touch my hand if I hadn't thought you were promising me something." 
''Marriage?'' he ~a.id. ' 'Did you think I was prom1smg you mar• · riage ,?'' "I thought lyou were promising that I was somebody s·pecial, and that I would always be somebody special,'' she said. 
"You are special," he said. "I never knew a girl who was so special." 
"If I'm so special," she said, "why 
are you saying goodbye?", . 
"I don't want to hurt you, he said. 
''You deserve somebody better than 
FM at 7, 9, 11 on Wednesday and 
that arise when the daughter of 

Titursday, October 10 and 11. Engin­conservation parents decides to wed eering Auditorium. CenterinJ.(' op t"tt> the son of the ro rietor of an 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
me.'' 
"I've already heard that from my father," she said. 
''It may seem that I'm only thinking of myself," he said, "but really, I'm thinking of what is best for you. You are fire, and I am ice. You are summer, and I am the snow.'' 
"That makes me special, alright," she said, "but you should see me in the off-seasons.'' 
''Fire never makes promises to ice," he said. "Summer couldn't make a marriage with the snow.'' 
''I never wanted you to marry me,'' she said. "I just hate it when you offer me grautude and respect, as though I were your scoutmaster.'' 
''They're the sincerest feelings a fellow can have,'' he said. "It's finished," she said. "I should be glad it's over." 
"No regrets?" he said. 
"Damn you," she said, " you expect too much.'' With emotions as bothersome as spiders at their toil, as tireless as the busy teeth of rodents scavenging a meal, she left the expensive restaraunt with the Tiffany lamps, and the young man smoking his cigarette. 
"Well," he said to himself, "I guess you can't win them all." 
********** 
The young man is older now; and on his birthday on Sunday, he will be the same age his father was at the time of his father's death. We always recognize older Becor'ning frightening years have not led us to his level of wisdom or virtue. "No regrets?" is at least one question that the young man--now well over fifty, and no longer young--has lear~ed the wi~­dom of never asking himself or his friends. There are always regrets; regrets are a sad, but necessary p_art of a life imperfectly lived. "If a th!ng is worth doing, it is worth domg over," a friend told me recently. After fifty, we be~in to use up our chances of doing hfe over.. 
Yeats writes the words: 
The Jears like great black oxen trea the world, And God the herdsman goads them on behind, 
And I am broken by their passing feet. 
In the expensive restaraunt with the Tiffany lamps, the young man, alone, lit a fresh Marlboro marking the end of an affair. 
"No regrets," he said definitively. If he had listened closely to the words he spoke, he could have heard the distant thunder of oxen treading the world, leaving brokenness under their passing feet. 
What'S All This Then? 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
The Sound of Music at 7 and 10, on Friday, Oct. 5 in Carroll Hall(SMC). The musical saga of a novice's love for a man with seven children in Austria during World War II. She leaves, the convent, they marry, and are then forced to leave as the Nazis advance on Austria. Beautiful scen­ery and some excellent tunes. With 
Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer. 
Barry'Lyndon at 7, 9, 11 on Monday and Tues., Oct. 8 and 9. Engineering Auditorium. The story of an 18th century Irish gentleman of fortune, noted for its exguisite photOgraphy and direction. Wuh Ryan O'Neal and Marissa Bereson. Grand Illusion at 7:3·0, October 8 in Washington Hall. 
ND/SMD FILM SERIES 
rise of a bottom ranked FM station, this film pursues a tongue-in-cheek treatment of social conscience. Featuring the music of Steely Dan, Jimmy Buffett, ~nd others. 
CINEMA~-OFF CAMPUS 
Lzfe ofBrian at 7:30 and 9:30, Forum Theater I. Starring the members of the Monty Pythongroup, this film is an irreveremt take-off on Biblical ef.ics, centering on the life of an il -fated young man named Brian. Animal House at 7:00 and 9:20 Forum II. The crazy antics of fraterni­ty brothers at a small midwestern college c. 1962 are the focus of this wildly successful comedy. Starring John Belushi as Bluto, Stephen Furst as Kent Dorfman, Tim Matheson as 
Otter,  with  Donald  Sutherland.  
La  Cage  Aux  Folies  (Birds  of  a  
Feather)  at  7:15  and  9:30  Forum  

Theater III. A French comedy, deal­ing with the delicate social conditions 
infamous drag club. When A Stranger Calls at 7:30 and 
9:30 River Park Theater. A horror film that reveals to us ''the thing that baby sitters fear most'' (an empty icebox?) . Time After Time at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 
7:30 and 9:30, Scottsdale Theatre. A thriller about H. G. Wells as a young man, starring Malcom McDowell, David Warner, and Mary Streebur­gen. Directed by Nicholas Meyer. 10, at 1:25, 3:25, 5:30, 7:45, and 
10:00. University Park I. A comedy about a man who finally gets to meet a dream girl--· an 11 on a scale of 10. With Julie Andrews as the wife directed by Blake Edwards. 
The Muppet Movie at 1:30, 3:3;, 5:3;, 7:30, and 9:30 Town and Country II. An amusing movie concerning the adventures of a frog, bear pig, turkey, and chicken on their way to find fame and fortune in Hollywood. Starring Jim Henson's Muppets, and 
with cameos by Madeline Kahn, ·Steve Martin, Bob Hope, and Edgar Bergen (to whom the film was 
dedicated). 
North! Dallas 40 at 2:15, 4:50, 7:25, and 9:40 University Park II. Burt Reynolds an.d Nick Nolte star in this comedy about the adventures of two aging . football players. The Seduction ofjoe Tynan, at 2:15, 4:45, 7:10, and 9:20, University Park 
III. Alan Aldal stars along with Barbara Harris and Meryl Streep in this movie about the complex desires of a politician;power family; and lust. 
The Deer/Hunter at 2:00, 5:15, wd 
8:30. Town and Country I. A Vier Nam era story concerning the effects of the war on a group offriends froma small steel town. With Robert DeNiro. 
Gerard Curtin 
PERFORMANCE ON CAMPUS 
Hamlet, at 8:00 on October 5, 6, 11, 12, and 13. Washington Hall. Notre Dame Graduate Lance Davis has the 
title  role  in  this  tragedy  of  old  
Denmark.  
Recita/.1, at  8:15  on  Wednesday,  

October 10. Library Auditorium. The Notre Dame Piano Trio. 

PERFORMANCE OFF CAMPUS 
Southold Dance Theater on Saturday, October 6 at 7:30. The Bendix Theater, Century Center. A local modern dance troupe performs dan­ces to a country music theme. 
AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES Friday, October 5, at9:30:Jump'nthe Saddle Band, a country swmg band. Saturday, October 6, at 9:30: Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee, a coun­try blues group, with spl"'cial guest Chris Smithers. 
---------····---­

• ' • • ' .. • -~ • ' ~<r ~ .. ' , ,. : .: •
·.. ,·· ' .. ,· ,. .. :..r. 

--~---~ ~~~~---........--------­

Friday, October.S, 1979-page 17
Features 
W~lcome to the Grand Illusion . • • • • • • • • • • • • 
Styx.shoUJ entertains • • • 
Welcome to the Grand Illusion! 
Come on in andsee what's happening! 
Pay the price . ..... . 
Did you ever get the feeling that you have just been ripped off? That you have paid good money expecting a quality product, and instead got a reasonable facsimilie? 
Since I was doing this review I didn't have to pay to go to last night's Styx concert at the ACC, but I still walked home with a feeling that I really didn't get my money's worth. 
Perhaps I've been spoiled a bit by artists like Bruce Springs~teen, but to see a lieadline act do a show that is so predictable leaves me feeling cheat­ed. 
The show did have a few high points, most of them revolving a­round the leader of the group, Dennis DeYoung. Although at Urnes the keyboardist seemed rather bored, when it was his turn to sign he gave the group a bit of an uplift. 
"Lady," the only time Styx ventur­ed back to their roots (they wrote this song when they were playing high schools in the Chicago area), was boosted by DeYoung's work on the piano and his vocals, which are mainly responsible for the group's distinctive sound. "Babe," one of the four songs Styx performed off their new "Cornerstone" album, proved to be the best in concert, as DeYoung accentuated his vocals with crisp work on the organ. 
The highlight of the evening was "Come Sail Away," as DeYoung's soaring vocals on the opening lines helped drived the song into high gear when the tempo changed. "Suire Madame Blue,'' another earlier cur off the "Equinox" album, also benefitted DeYoung's vocal cords. 
Most of the other tunes seemed to lack the feeling displayed . by De­Young, as guitarists James Young and Tommy Shaw seemed happy to plod along and do the songs while prancing around the stage showing off their blond hair. Shaw entertain­ed the crowd with an acoustic guitar solo, and turned in some good vocals on "Crystal Ball," but lacked excite­ment on his electric guitar work. Young's vocals seemed rather unin­spired, and you could hardly under­stand what he was saying despite the excellent sound system. 
Styx obviously rehearsed their act quite well, and they knew exactly what they were gomg to perform before they went on stage. When they travel to their next gtg, they will probably do exactly the same show, and may even do some of the songs exactly the same way. It makes for a really smooth performance, but lacks the intensity that one expects in a live foncert. 
On the whole I would have to say the Styx was entertaining, but what they presented last night was equivalent to what you can get on an album. And that only costs about six dollars. 
• • • but Ian Hunter rocks 
If you came late to last night's show, you might have missed the most entertaining part of the evening. The Ian Hunter Band, featuring a sound that can be traced back to the roots of rock and roll, made a lot of people sit up and take notice (once they got to their seats.) 
Ian Hunter and Mick Ronson, former members of the English band Mott the Hoople, have the band its punch. Hunter's unusual vocal style and Ronson's guitar work led the way for a solid array of rocking tunes. 
After an insnimental by Ronson and the band opened the show, Hunter showed off his great musical versa­tility. "Is There Life After Death" and "You're a Bastard," two songs off his latest album, "You're Never Alone with A Schizophrenic,'' presented Hunter at his rocking best. But then he slid over to the piano and performed an Elton John-style ballad, ''I'm Goi to be Somebody Someday," a story about a young boy's fantasy. 
The group also paid tribute to their history with "The Golden Age of Rock and Roll," before launching into their best song, ''Cleveland Rocks.'' This song attracted a major cult following m Chicago (and probably elsewhere) this summer, mainly because Hunter chants the. disco haters anthem (Disco S----) during the break. Hunter, seizing the opportunity, also stated similar opinions about the oil companies, some American politicians, and South Bend, as the crowd chanted along. (Strangely enough, not all of the crowd joined in on the last one.) 
Hunter close with an old Mott song, "All the Young Dudes," but ht'> talent is obviously aiming for the future. This tour, plus some solid promotion, could thrust the Ian Hunter Band into the limelight soon. 

• 
Review by Mark Perry Photos by John Macor 

. W~ile jn_ CQ~~dS\ho .Talking Head dectded to visit the western extension of the North Dining Hall, Kosciusko's Polish Delicatessan. 'While standing in line, T.H. heard the man in front order a Kielbasa pizza. T.H. looked up to see a tall man dressed in funny slippers, a long white robe, and a yamaca. 
"Excuse me," T.H. inquired, but 
aren't you the Pope?" After the 
pontiff nodded, T.H. inquired, 
"What are you doing here?" 
"Well," John Paul explained, "the 
Italians are a nice people, but I can 
never get f6od like this at the Vatican 
Restaurant. And besides, their 
workers are always going on strike." 
"Gee, as long as you're in the 
"mid-western United States, you real­
ly should visit Notre Dame. It's 
supposedly a very Catholic institu­
tion.'' 
"Well, I was going to," John Paul 
replied. "But I couldn''t get football 
tic..kets. It's a shame, really. I had 
heard a lot about the Fightin' 
Pollocks of Notre dame." 
"Uh, ... that's Irish, not Polish!" 
offered T.H. 
"Really?" saidJohn Paul. "That's 
not what Brother Viator Grzeskowiak, 
the rector of Stanford Hall, said. He 
even wanted to irwite me to the 
Polish wedding party, except that 
there are more than 20 people in my 
retinue. Something about a Polish 
Wedding party policy. Other than 
that, I think that I would really like 
Notre Dame. In fact, I even 
considered applying for a job with the 
Theology department, but the Depart­
ment said that it needed someone 
who was more aware of Catholic 
issues. and besides,. I probably 
couldn't Ret tenure." 
"Well, ifyou can't make it to Notre 
.. 

Dame, will any of the students come. to see youin Chicago?" T .H. asked. "It would be such a great thrill for th<" freshmen to receive communion from you. '' 
''Thf'y considered it, '' replied John Paul, "bur finally decided against it b<"cause I'm here on Friday. the freshmen Chemistry professor said that you can get the seven sacra­ments any time. You can only get the 7 point quiz once a week." 
"Well, at least Father Hesburgh will be here," T.H. said hopefully. 
"I thought so, " said John Paul, "but I've just received this letter." He then handed me a white envelope with a leprechaun insignia on the corner. The letter read: 
Dear john~Paul, 
I am sorry that 1 cannot be with you on this joyous occa1-ion, but I am currently on an airplane flying 45,000 feet over the Atlantic Ocean heading towards Rome, in order to ajJply for a position as temporary head ofa major religious group of the Western powers whzle the true head !an eastern bloc man] applies for a.1yfum in the U.S. This will help me in my mission to save the world. I thought that I would tell you, however, that I met with the Notre Dame community as a whole yesterday and they want me to assure you they are all praying for you. 
I am also sorry that I cannot provide you with the football tickets which you requested. However, if yott would like to make a contnbution to the Campaign for Notre Dame, I will make further inquin'es into the matter. 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Ted 
John Paul muttered, "Wait 'til he ~ries to get tickets to my next inquisition." 


The Observer Friday, October 5, 1979-page 18 
A 
Cafarelli comments on job
FIShSt~ 


l':T_""-yo~c,_,! 
All-~-can-eat.fish 
aU the time 
All-you-can-eat ~ bar 
All-you-can-eat frog's leg.s on Mondays 
Open For Lunch -Noon Specials­Platters, Sandwiches 
*Homemade Soups. Chowder, Clams, Shrimp, Lobster 
And your favorite cocktails 
52129 fyiopp~ 1.277-0103
U.S. 3!' No. u d. 
FISH OF STROH
S h
out uen 
FAMILY RESTAURANT 

by Sal Granata 
Fr. F..rancis Cafarelli, recently appointed head of the Office of Student Accounts, said yester­day that students are well served by that office. 
Student Accounts handles all financial obligation which stu­
dentsowe to the University. The office, located on the first floor of the Administration Building, coordinates payments by stul dents and their families as well as scholarship aid, grants and loans. 
Cafarelli took office on Sept­
•ember 10 after serving for two years as Assistant Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Pro­gram. He succeeds Fr. Michael Hepper, who 'Was named to head the Housing Office earlier in the semester. 
Mter a month in his new position; Cafarelli remarked that his office "is efficiently run due to Fr. Hepper's efforts and because of a very competent staff.'' 
Cafarelli thinks it is too early 
to talk about policy ch_ange but 
observed that as other depart­
ments modernize for the sake of 
efficiency, his office will staY'in 
step. 
"As we go through the year, I 
will try to understand all de­
partmental procedures as well 
as all problems related to those 
procedures,'' he said. 
"One of the biggest parts of my job is to deal with problems that are really individualized ­like when a student's situation is such that meeting his tuition takes more than just writing a check." 
"Of course, we have to be concerned with that portion of the University's income that comes from student's finicial obligations, but we make every effort to allow a student to remain here," Cafarelli said. 
In order to provide students with ways to meet their bills on time, Student Accounts coor­dinates with several other de­partments, including the offices 
IT'S A LONG WAY TO THE FINISH LINE. 
Everything's ahead of you and nothing stands in your 
way. It's time to try your legs. To get up and go. And there's no better place to do it than with the company that keeps America moving, Clark. 
Our worldwide, fortune 200 organization can offer you the opportunity to grow and improve in a wide range of career paths. As leaders in the manufac­ture of heavy equipment for farming, construction, industry and transportation, we provide you with choice. And challenge. 
We're Clark. Spanning 119 nations. With 
sales in excess of $1.5 billion. A cohesive team of professionals, 21,000 strong. We're Clark and we move things. Including careers. 
Clark representatives will visit your campus on 
FRIDAY, October 12th 
Stop by and find out about us; or see your Placement Office for further details. 
CL'IRK 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
of the Registrar and Finicial 
Aid. 
Cafarelli joined the ND comm­
unity in 1973 as part of the 
formation staff at Moreau Sem­
inary. From 1976 to 1978 he 
was assistant rector at Zahm 
Hall. He joined the Freshman 
Year Program in 1977. • 
Cafarelli was born in Schen­ectady, New York, where he also took his B.A. in History from Union College. He pur­sued Masters Degrees in hist­ory, philosophy and political philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania, S.U.N.Y. at Brockport and Notre Dame. 
He has taught or held admini­strative posts at Cardinal Mooney High School in Roches­ter, New York, and Notre Dame High School in Bridgeport, Q:>nnecticut. 
Ku Klux Klan 
harrasses children 
ELWOOD, Ind. (AP) -The 
U.S. Justice Department has been asked to investigate the case of a young mother who sent her three racially mixed children away from this Madi­son County community after they were harrassed by the local Ku Klux Klan. 
The trouble began after the 
woman, who moved back to her 
hometown six months ago, 
enrolled her children in an 
elementary school here in late 
August. 
On Aug. 27, a cross was 
burned in the yard in front of 
her southside home, police 
said, and she began to receive 
threatening phone calls. 
Authorities said the woman, 
who-had been harrassed by 
fellow employees at the Elwood 
factory where she works, sent 
her children back to their father 
in Anderson a few days after 
the incident. 

Elwood police patrolman John Wright said the police depart­ment has filed a civil nghts complaint with the federal gov­ernment which they expect the Justice Department to act upon soon. 
The woman said she planned 

to keep her children at home 
after the burning, but a person 
familiar with Kan tactics con­
vinced her it would not be safe. 
"He told me that they (the Klan), would not hesitate to hurt the kids or me. So I thought it would be better ifI took the kids back to their father's house until I could settle somewhere else or get this straightened out,'' she said. 
Wright said police "have a pretty goods idea who is invol­ved" in the harrassment, add­ing, "The Klan here is fading out fast. They only have about 100 members left. All they've got left are the drunken bums who hang around in bars." 
The woman, who police said has since applied for a gun permit, said the events have left her angry. 
•'When I ~aw the cross burn­ing out front, I was scared because I was afraid they might still be out there and they might try to get into the house," she said. "But as soon as the police pulled up, the fear went out of me and I was just plain mad. felt like in this day and time, people shouldn't act that way." 
... 



The Observer 

to expedite consideration and 
construction of priority energy proje.cts ''while environmental values and state and local dicision making are preserv­ed." ---· 
The president's supporters said a board with unprecedent­ed powers is needed if the nation is to develop new energy sources and reduce its depend­ence on foreign oil. 
Environmental and states' rights advocates said the board would interfere with the rights of affected communities to de­cide if dirty · or dangerous energy plants should be built in their neighborhood. 
Sen Tohn Glenn, D-Ohio, an opponent of the proposal, said creation of the mobilization board would give politicians a chance to claim they are doing something about the energy crisis. In fact, he said, the board would add another un­needed level of federal bereau­
cracy. 
"What we are doing here is a 
Washington whitewash for the 
problem, a Washington char­
ade," Glenn said. 
A similar battle over what 
powers should be given the 
board is expected in the House. 
Senate Democratic Leader 
Robert Byrd of West Virginia 
predicted the board would be 
the first in a series of energy 
measures to move quickly 
through the Senate. 
In an earlter, 65-28 vote, the 
Senate turned aside an effort to 
split the powers of the board 
with the two-year-old Depart­
ment of Energy. 
The amendment, sponsored 
by Glenn, was the last major 
effort by opponets to weaken 
the proposed new agency. 
The mobtltzatton board would 
have authority to designate an 
unlimited number of energy 
projects for so-called ''fast 
track" treatment. If a local 
state agency failed to meet a 
deadline for apfroval of a 
controversial loca project, the 
board would step 10 and take 
over. 
Stronger proposals giving the 
board authonty to set aside 
federal, state or local laws that 
obstruct projects were defeat-' 
ed, along with environmental-
OCC seeks 
inspectors 
The Off:campus Council is searching for students who are interested in inspecting off campus housing. For more information contact Brother Ed Luther at 2178 or Kathy O'Dell at 234-7220. 
nual rate before the end of the year. 
But the latest wholesale report suggests that continuation of the double-digit retail increases is likely. 
The September wholesale in­crease was the third consec­utive monthly rise of more than I percent. There were these breakdowns: 
-The wholesale prices for energy goods ready to go to the retail market --principally gas­oline, kerosene and fuel otl -­climbed 6.8 percent last month, a percentage point more than in the previous month. The energy prices in September stood nearly )6 percent higher than in September 1978. 
WATC·H FOR THE HUGHES RECRUITER VISITING YOUR· CAMPUS SOON. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. 
r-~----------------, 
i I HUGHEs·: I 
I I 
L-------~----------~
Cteat•ng a new world w1th electronics 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPlOYER M/F 
~-------~--~-~-----­
' ---l 
j j 
j j

Friday, October 5, i"979 ~ page 19· 
•j

ists' effons to weaken the Glenn said the Energy De­version supported by Carter _t)artment should retain respon­and the Senate Energy Commi­sibility for improving domestic ttee. 'Jroduction of energy. 

-------------, 
I I FREE PITCHER I I 
I OF SOFT DRINK I I Buy any Family Size pizza and get a I pitcher of your favorite beverage FREE
I I
with this coupon. Limit one coupon perI pizza ordered. No other 
I offer valid. 
I I 
Expires_ 10/11/79 _ ..
I 
I

PiZZA
I 
PARLOR 
I 

I lllorlb's grralrsl ptzza: 
I L J 

montgomery® 
WILL CONDUCT INTERVIEWS ON THIS CAMPUS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1979. CAREER POSITIONS IN VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT 
WILL BE DISCUSSED WITH DEGREE CANDIDATES IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT MONTGOMERY AND OUR FUTURE VISIT TO YOUR CAMPUS. CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE. 
montgomery 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. Illinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co.. L1m1ted. Toronto, Ontario M9B3S5 Offices in 

Senate hands Carter 
•
vtctory 
on energy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate, handinQ" President Car­ter a major victory on energy policy, voted yesterday to cre­ate a powerful new agency with broad powers to speed U.S. energy development. 
A~proved by a 68-25 vote was legtslation that would set up a four-member Energy Mobiliza­tion Board that is intended to cut red tape blocking construc­tion of oil refineries, pipelines, multibillion dollar synthetic fuel plants and other facilities. 
Carter proposed a series of new energy measures in a nationally broadcast speech July 15. The board is the first of his proposals to have reached the Senate.floor. 
In a statement released by the White House press office, the president said the Senate vote was "a major step forward in the ioint effort of tbe Congress and my administration to a-· · 
chieve energy security for our 
nation.'' 
Carter said the Senate bill substantially reflected his ori­ginal proposal and said the board could "cut through un­
necessary procedural delays'' 
Aftera dry September, it looks from the first week ofOctober as t/ the spell is broken. See weather forcast on page 2. [photo by Beth Prezio] 
... Prices 
(continued from page 1) 
The Observer 
Friday, October 5, 1979 -page 20 
Notre Dame Student Union 
presents 
• • • Pope 


La Fort~ne Stuaen! Cf!nter 
Main Lobby Area 
~--------------------~-----~--, 
~~ Sunday Masses I :~II at 1 ~~::lft~ Sacred Heart Church! 
I I
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.SC. I 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. I 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C. I
1
1 
12:15 p:m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.s.C. I I I

1 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Oliver Williams, C. S.C. I 


L----~-------~---------------~ 
TAILGATE 
PARTY! 
•12.99 
• 
20 Pes. Chicken (Spicy or mild) 

• 
1 Pt. Bar-B-O Beans 

• 
1 Pt. Cole Slaw 

• 
6 Rolls with honey 

• 
6 Pudding Desserts 


Offer good Fri., sat., sun. Open 9 a.m. sat. of ND Home Games 
"ore~es 
FAMOUS FRIED CHICKEN 
1636 N. Ironwood 
western Avenue In the Phoenix Plaza-opening soon. 

RIVER CITY RECORDS 
notthetn ln,dlana's latgest tecotd and tape selection and conceit ticket headquattets 
Jl.OO OFFU 
any albu111 ot tap• (now thm Oct. 15 limit 1 coupon per person) 

18,000 albums and tapea In stock ND;smc student checks accepted fot up to J20.00 over putchaae amount Open 10 to 10, 7 days a week 
Rivet Clt.Y Recotda 50970 U.S. 31 Notth 3 mllea nofth of campua 
..
, . 
...,._,·_/l'.t'_,_,":. "ol'"'. 
(continued from page 1] 
and met with the parish's 205 
members. 
The papal jet "Shepherd I" 
touched down at Des Moines at 
2:45p.m. EDT. Then the pope 
flew 1n a Marine '']oily Green 
Giant" helicopter to St. Pat­
rick's and on to Living History 
Farms. 
At the Farms, a ·display of farming methods old and new, the pontiff was greeted by ] oseph Hays, the Iowa farmer whose invitation, handwritten in the dining room of his farmhouse in nearby Truro, brought John Paul to this rural state. 
The pope gave rosaries to each 
of the four Hays children. 
An estimated 350,000 people, spread out over grassland where Indians once planted maize, heard the pope's mess-· age. Many were so far away, they could see the pope only as a small figure in white standing in the bnght sttn on a hilltop altar. 
The crowd was said to be the largest in Iowa history. There was a Polish banner from 
!omaha, Neb. a school bus from Emporia, Kan., and other yell­ow buses from Minnesota and North Dakota. 
In his homily at the Mass, the pontiff spoke again of the simple life in the "Heartland of America.'' 
He called on the vast congre­gation to have gratitude to God for their land, some of the nation's most fruitful, acre on acre of it stretching out before the l?ope's view, its green not yet tmged with autumn. 
"Conserve the land well, so that your children's children and generations after them will inherit an even richer land than was entrusted to you,'' he said. 
He added that farmers must also be generous, saying: ''You have the potential to provide food for the millions who have nothing to eat and t'hus help to rid the world of famine." 
SMC position 
opens 
The resignation of Saint Mary's Athletic Commissioner leaves the position vacant. Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office and are due by this Monday at 5 
p.m. Interviews will follow•. 
The pontiff had been greeted at the airport here by Gov. Robert Ray, Bishop Maurice Dingham of Des Moines and about 150 handicapped persons and elderly persons, chosen especially for the occassion. 
Bishop Dingham made refer­ence to Iowa's rural quality in welcoming the pope: "The leaves, the furrows, the 
streams, the seeds all speak about our qod, his beauty, h~s majesty, his power and his
,, 
goodness. 
Ues Momes was the fourth stop on John Paul's six-city tour, his first American visit as pope. The four-hour stop in Iowa was one the pope himself asked for, and it was the only visit on his tour outside the major cities and Catholic popul­ation centers. The diocese of Des Moines has a Catholic population of 80,000 and the­entire state has some half-mill­ion Catholics among its 2.8 million people. 
The Iowa visit was part of the busiest day on the pot;>e's seven-day visit to the Umted States. After Des Moines he was to fly to Chicago. His public day, which began at 6:30 
a.m. in Philadelphia, was not to end until after 10 p.m.in Chic­ago. 
Enthusiastic crowds greeted the pope as he began his day in Philadelphia. just as they had Wednesday. Thousands waited outside a Ukrainian. church he 
·visited, and confetti floated down from windows as his motorcade drove to the Civic 
• • • Caucus 
[continued from page 4] 
The Carter campaign, run by former Interior Del?artment ex­ecutive and political science professor]ay Hakes, gradually shifted its focus from preparing for the primary to meeting the caucus challenge. 
Since late August, Carter has visited the state and dispatched his wife, his mother and a bevy of top aides like press secretaryJody Powell and Mideast envoy Robert Strauss. 
The Carter camp's $200,000 effort, which has solid backing from Gov. Bob Graham and every other major Florida Democrat, put the Kennedy forces on the defensive and has kept up the pressure. 
Bendixen and Lewis charge that party leaders are unfairly using the rules to assist Carter 
Center for Mass. Addressing himself to the 
emotional  Issue  of  ordaining  
women  as  priests,  the  pontiff  
said  it  is  not  a  violanon  of  

human rights, "nor an exclu­sion of women from holiness and mission in the church,'' to bar them from the priesthood. 
The pope recalled the biblical injunction that the Lord gave in calling to the priesthood ''The men he himself has decided on'' and said the deci:sion expresses the conviction of the church. 
John Paul received enthusias­nc applause after this state­ment, though the nuns pr.r-sent, in the balcony separated from the priests and seminarians in the main congregation, seemed subdued. 
The pope, who has refused all requests to release priests from their vows since he was elected nearly a year ago, also was interrupted by applause when he spoke of fidelity to the priesthood. 
"We do not return the /ift once given,'' the pope sai in reiterating his position that once a man has become a priest, he should not be releas­ed from his vows. 
''It cannot be that God who gave the impulse to say 'Yes' now wishes to hear 'No,' '' the pope said. 
For the third time in his two days in Philadelphia, the pontiff spoke about celibacy for pri­ests., noting that it should not surprize the world that the church insists on it. 
but they may be laying the groundwork to excuse a poor showing or claim a better-than­exRected showing. 
' We don't even have a candi­date," says Lewis. "We're just a small group of people doing the best we can. We're holding out at the Alamo. We just hope we're not over-run." 
Despite their poor-mouthing, the Kennedy camp is not with­out weapons, starting with Bendixen and Abrams' political alliances in South Florida, where 40 percent of the dele­gates will be elected. 
Their war chest totals about $150,000. More than half has come from Kennedy supporters in other states, especially New York, and they have received aid from some labor groups, primarily the International As­sociation of Machinists. 



------~------.....-......-~---~-~~ 
• I 
The Observer -Sports ' Friday; ~~-·5, JJ]9 -p~ .21 
-----"-'---­
===-----~--~~--------~------~==-===~ 

goaltender Dave Laun'on returns to a strong Notre Dame hockey team that lost only 3 ofits top twenty players. [photo by john Macor] . 
Open October 19 
Skaters prepare with experience 
by Bnan Beglane tion marks we did before last 
:,ports Writer season,"said Smith, preparing 
his 12th Notre Dame club for a
A' lot of familiar faces have season been skating around the ice rink "We only lost three of our top of the Athletic and Convocation 20 skaters to graduation, so that Center these days --faces that should make us a more exper­give Notre Dame hockey coach ienced team. The team worked Lefty Smith reasons to smile. hard on conditioning over the 
Sixteen of the top twenty summer and I am very pleased skaters from last season's with what I have seen m our two 18-19-1 club return, quite a weeks of practice so far." paradox from last year's pre-The Irish took to the rink for season when Smith had a host practice Se_ptember 24 after a of freshmen to evaluate. Now, week of off-ice conditioning. as the Irish prepare to open That included running the steps their home season October 19 of the football stadium and a~ainst Illinois-Chicago Circle, work in the weight room. vt.rtually every spot on the team ' "We have great overall speed, has been decided. perhaps the best we have ever 
"We don't face all the ques-had,"continuedSmith. "I look 
• • . Piane 
[continued from page 24) 
where he was a member of the Canadian N a tiona! Junior Cross­Country Team. He also compet­ed in the World International Meet which was held in Ireland. Bicicchi, a Lombard, Illinois native, was the top freshman performer in the Notre Dame time· trials two weeks ago as he 
mished an impressive fourth with a time of 19:41 for four miles. 
Filosa is another bright spot for Piane. In the coach's words, the junior from Palatine, Illinois been running extremely
ell. Filosa ran the time trials 
'n 19:33 to tie for second place ith Novak. Novak is the only senior 
ong the starting seven. He long with ' fellow senior Pete urger combine as co-captains f this year's team. Aragon and Fox are both eturnee.s · from last year's quad. Aragon ran in all seven aces last year, tying for ft.rst 
n the Notre iame-LOyola/Mar­uette meet. -Fox competed in 5 f 7 races performing quite will espite inJury problems. Hope­lly, FoJ~ has recovered and can 
n at full· capacity/. Perhaps the biggest reason for iane's ioptimism stems from ophomore T<?ny Ha~herly .. He mished ftrst tn the ttme tnals, Ieven seconds fast~r than any Phis teammates. Like Bartol-, 
Hatlietly competed for 
Can dian . N a tiona! Junior Cross Country team • while in hi~h school inThunderBay, Ontano. 
Piane expects Hatherly "l;'o challenge for the top spot tn i:oday's meet. He appears to be ruiming closer to h1s poten­tial." In closing he added, "Tony can be an excellent runner.'' . The long-awaited season is finally here after hundreds of miles have been jogged. Joe Piane will soon find O\}t if his optimisn is warranted. He will also discover whether or not his top seven rul).ners were the appropriate choices to reprsent Notre Dame. Whatever . the outcome none can accuse the {risb cro~s-couney team of lack 
·of practic ' 
~ ~----------------------------­
f~mm(3~ 'I:Gua
I &aG~ORaG~ 
I •• 

.. 


for that to be one of the keys to 
: our offense. Defensively, on the other hand, we lost no one and should be very adept. Overall, I have to say I am very 1opii.ffiistic about the coming season.'' 
Senior right wing Greg Mere­dith will captain this year's sq_uad after serving as co-cap­tam last season. Classmate Tom Michalek, a center, will serve as co-captain for the second year running. 
Notre Dame's October 19 opener will be an exhibition game. ·The Irish will begin their Western Collegiate Hoc­key Association season the following week, October 26 and 27, at home a~ainst Denver. Notre Dame fintshed fifd1iii the WCHA last year with a 17-14-1 record. A 35-game schedule, including 16 home games is slated. ROSTER: 
Forwards: Greg Meredith,Sr., rw; Ted Weltzin, Sr., c.; Tom Michalek, Sr.,c.; Kevin Hum­phreys, Jr.,lw;Mar~ Sicoly, Jr., s; Dave Poultn, So. ,c; Jeff Logan, So., lw; Bill Roth­stein, So., lw; Jeff Perry, So., rw; Dan Collard, So., w; Kirt Bjork, Fr., lw; John Higgins, Fr., w; Pat Devine, So., w;Rex Bellomy, Fr., w; Mark, Fr., w; Dave Lucia, Fr., w; Dan Rec-' tenwald, Fr., w. DefenseJmen: John Fried­man, Sr.; Don Lucia, Jr.; Jeff BrownschidleJr; Jim Brown, So.; Scott Cameron, ] r; John Schmidt, So.; John Cos, So.; 
Greg. Ka~ia,So.
Goaltes: Dave Launon, So., Bob McNamara, Fr.; Mark · Schores I So. 
" 

THENAZZ 
Thur. Oct 4 Jamie Good'rich 
' 9:30-? 
Friday Oct. 5 
Mike Franken Paul Bertolini with guest Eric Barth 
9:30-? 

Sat. Oct. 6 Cathy Breslin Kathy Murray 9•30·?
• i • · 
--~--~---~---~--­
.... 
~ 
.. 
f. I l I ~ 
• 
t 
I l 
The Observer .. SportsBoard 
Molarity 



Friday, October 5, 1979 -page 22 
The Daily Crossword 

bv Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 30 Well-padded 50 Exchanges 23 Watchmen's 
London's 32 Depend 
7 Paris' .. _ flavoring 
Francaise 34 Amen 14 Heloise's 35 Chloe's 
love love 16 Away from 38 Makes a 
one's land trip back 17 Eager 39 Scratch beaver 40 Vegetable 18 Nuclear in­pest 
stallation 41· Signs of 19 Art piece sadness 20 Musical 42 Secret 
p1ece group 22 Flower 43 Old card 24 Electrical game 
unit 46 Gluck of 25 Rich soil song 29 "-a j~lly 47 Comfort 
good... 48 Burn 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
53 Jekyll's beats other half 26 Lulu 54 Writer 27 Opposed to: Belloc dial. 57 Religious 28 New York 
beliefs nine 59 Endlessly 31 Cheese 60 Inane in­32 Stopovers 
dividuals 33 British 61 Milan's sightseeing opera bus 62 City on the 34 Antitoxins Danube 35 Computer 
input DOWN 36 Eve's son Native 37 London tot quarter of transport Algiers 38 Kennedy and 
2 Dense Montgomery 3 Distances 40 Vile 
in Russia 42 A chain 4 Cream 43 Stores up 5 Of sailing: 44 "-shall 
abbr. dream 6 Allowance dreams" 
for waste 45 Black Sea 7 Ring port 8 -a time 47 Mr. Flynn 9 Main part 49 Santiago's 
10 Arthur's land sword 51 Verdi 11 Morse code heroine 
syllable 52 Knife: sl. 12 UN agcy. 54 Total: 13 Rhymer's comb. form 
"always" 55 One­15 Workers on million the range 56 -Vegas 21 Snug: var. 58 Mr. Wallach 
.-Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Best of Five Sarles Baltimore 2-0 California (}-2 

Thursday's Game Baltimore 9, California 8. . Flrday's Game Baltimore (D. Martinez 15-16) at California (Tanana 7-5) (nl NATIONAL LEAGUE Best of Five Series Pittsburgh 2-0 Cincinnati (}-2 Friday's Games Cincinnati (~aCross 14-8) at Pittsburgh(Biyleven 12-5) . _ 
Football 
Sunday Chica~o at Buffalo Detroit at New England Green Bay at Atlanta Kansas City at Cincinnati Washington at Philadelphia Tampa Bay at New York Giants St. Louis at Houston Pittsburgh at Cleveland Dallas at Minnesota Los Angeles at New Orleans New York Jets at Baltimore San Diego at Denver Seattle at San Francisco Monday Miami at Oakland, (n) 
Volleyball 
AISMC Last Night's Results 
St.' Mary's defeated Grace College 15-5, 13-15, 15-6, 9-15,15-12. 
Notre Dame Woman 
Yesterday's Results 
Butler defeated N.D. 15-1,15-11. Marion defeated N.D. 15-4, 15 10 
Taylor defeated N.D. 15-10, 18-16 
Tonight's Game 
Indiana State at Notre Dame -ACC Fieldhouse -6:30 p.m. 

Wreck Tech rallies tonight 
There will be a pep rally for th~ Geo~gia Tech football ga~e thts Fnday at 7:00 p.m. m Stepan Center. The rally will feature speakers Rusty Lisch, Bobby Leopold, Coach Joe _Yo~­to and special guest Ztggte Czarobski. The Notre Dame Marching Band will step off from Washington Hall at 6:45, and requests that all bikes ·b.e kept off the walkways in the route from Washington Hall to Stepan Center. 
INTERVIEWING THIS SEMESTER? SMC SENIORS--REMEMBER YOU MUST COMPLETE A CREDENTIALS FILE THROUGH SENIOR PLACEMENT ORIENTATION TO INTERVIEW WITH COMPANIES AND GRADUATE SCHOOLS. SESSIONS SCHEDULED THROUGH OCTOBER31* SIGN UP AT THE COUNSELING AND CAREER DE­VELOPMENT CENTER. INTERVIEWING AT ND? YOU MUST REGISTER WITH THEIR PLACEMENT OFFICE TOO. KEEP YOUR EYES AND EARS OPEN FOR OTHER WORK­SHOPS WHICH WILL HELP YOU GET YOUR FIRST JOB!! 
Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincar­nation in the Torah, the Prophets, and the Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam, P.O. Box 4494. South Bend, Ind. 46624. 
Bill, I'm a bored midget with $3.00. What can I do? 

Welcome back GREAT EIGHT of Holy Cross (Class o1 '79) From JFK 
Is Keenan the Dillon of North Quad? or o1 campus? I found out at a talde party. Thanks, Keenan! 



Susan (alias Gertrude. Queen of Denmark), Break aleg tonight, and watch it when you get thirsty! (you never know what you'll find in a goblet of wine) 
Your humble servant, Voltomand. 
TO CAST AND CREW OF HAMLET: BREAK A COLLECTIVE PROVERBIAl LEG. HOPE YOU MAKE IT A PERFOR­MANCE TO WAKE THE DEAD. I'LL BE AROUND NEXT SHOW. 
MERCURY 
f(C): 
Once again you've made the observer! You just can't get away from it! Welcome back to ND. 
The ticklishone! !?? 
C. 
Good Luck Saturday! N. 
Seek Pleasure, avoid pain. Join the Epicurean Society of ND (aka. Sunday Night Club). Call 277-5377 and ask for Mom. Remember, if it feels good---GO FOR IT! 
CCW&D monthly meeting Is postponed due to 1111111 visit until next week. 
Jim Blaha, Two girls for one "special" jacket? 
HAPPY LB. DAY PEGGY lOVE. 
BROWSE GHOST JOE WALDO 
P.S. Thanks for last nile and Happy B-Day Maddogl 
Dear Stew: 
Sorry to hear you hurt your leg. You have to stop running into moving football players!Ill by chance you don't make it, I'II send roses. Get better soon. 
SIR 
Dear Doozer, You finally got it in writing. Love, "AL" 
P.S. Happy Birthday 
Hey, who is tNt Goalie ?! ! Good luck Tonight! 1 
SHAWN* Danny White wants to wish you a super birthday! 
Flanner Gentlemen, Thanks for the champagne breakfast and opportunity to dress up. Betsy and Co. 
Have the studies got you down? Well cheer up and have a great time! ICall the girls from .?92 leMans--they (REAllY) know how ~o live it upI! 4489. 
Avenging Annie, Beware of flying hemorrhoids and red dragons. FLOYD THE OUTLAW 
Hey Guys. 
Theresa's aprime woman now! Give her a call and wish her happy 18th. 5400 (SMC) 
Happy Birthday TC 
• love, Helen. Trisha, Mary Wynn, Wiz, and Aggie. P S IT'S LEGAL 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY* MICHAEL* I LOVE YOU BEVERLY 
Dave Divis, Thanks again tor last nights tickets. Love. Peggy, Lynn, MJ, and Cathy. 
Desperately need 2 GA USC tickets. Call Michele 4-4269. 
Dear Roxanne, Happy Birthday! (two days late). You've finally made It! Congratulations!! The Chocolate Chippers . 
Happy Birthday to my favorite Gila Monsterll Wishing you much happiness 
(fireplaces. kick!)  bricks. and coffee All my love,  with  a  
lnaakers  

"Who in the heck is Georgia Tech?" 
Ask Rah-rah 1360 
1918 brought Knute 1975 brought Devine 1979 brings Rah-rahl 
Boston Bob, Is it really true that you get satisfaction from ADIDAS?? Mary Eileen 
Maribeth, Happy 21st Birthday to the most cheertul person on campus. Your biggest admirer 
· I .. -----------· ------------··.--.-.. ~ ... --....... -__,_.,_.-. 
• 

The Observer Friday Octobef 5' 1979 -page 2~
~

' 
---' 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two dars prior to the issue In which the ad is run. Tht Obslrwr office wll accellt classifieds Monday thrOUQh Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. II
Classifieds classifieds must be pre-pa1d, either in person or through the mail. 
Typist will do typing. Neat-Accurate. Phone 287-5162. 
TYPING-Experienced in dissertations, essays, term papers. Selectric typewriter. 237-5715. 
Morissey Loan Fund Last day to apply for loans before Fall break is Oct. 18. $20-$200. Due in one month. One percent charge. 
Mar-Main Pharmacy at 426 N. Michigan cashes personal checks for students with an ND/SMC ID. 
RPM Productions announces the booking of the band for the first time aver In this area for your formals and spacial occa­sions. Call Jim at Z'n-1891. 
Question: What came first, the chicken or the egg?? Answer: The chicken at Papayas! 1636 N. Ironwood, South Bend, Indiana. Z'n-03!17 It's a great new taste!! 
ND-SM~ OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
Anyone interested in helping with the organization or design of the ND/SMC 0-C MARDI GRAS booth, please contact Jim Steedle at 277-1347. 
Used Book Shop: Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888. 
ATTENTION LOGAN VOLUNTEERS Here it is! Lake Placid and Moscow all rolled into one! This Saturday will be the annual, once-a-year, very competitive Special Olympics Rec. Softball throw, standing broad jump, barrel toss, basket­ball toss, and relay games will be among the many featured events. The kids are in great shape and will be ready to pit their skills against each other in ther spirit of true competition only found at the Olympics. Again, because of the home football game, rec this Sat., Oct.6, will be from 9:00 to 11 :00. So while Lake Placid and Moscow are still months away, come watch the Logan athletes try their hardest for the chance to feel the "thrill of victory" .Also, don't forget bowling on Friday afternoons. If interested, meet at the Library circle at 3:15 this Friday. For any information or questions, call Ed at 3479 or Waiter at 3066. See you all at the Special Olympics! 
Football equipment taken from varsity locker room--please keep equipment but return mouthpieces-no questions asked. Call Nick 1694. 
For Rent: Campus View Apt. for rent with 3male students. $100/month. All utilities included. Call Ken 1758. 
For Sale 
-
For Sale: 2 USC GA's Best offer. Call Terry 1756. 
FREE BAR of Feelin Fresh Deodorant Soap with $3.00 order from AVON. Call: 233-6581 or 287-6920. 
3 United V2Price coupons. $35 each. Tom 277-3845. 
For Sale or Trade: The remainder of a student football package, section 31, including USC game. All serious offers will be heard, or better yet, will trade for 2 USC GA. Call 8661 from noon-1 ask for Kevin. 
JOIN THE KENNEDY BANDWAGON: order your "I'm Ready for Teddy" T-shirt, 50/50 heather blue, sizes (S-M-L· XL), $5, includes mailing, cashiers check or cash only;Wild West Com~any, 1400 North Rouse, Bozeman, MT. 9715. 
1969 Nova--Low miles. 3-speed in excel· lent condition. Call Jim 234-2862. Leave name/number. 
For Sale: '64 Falcon, good running condition. Micael 288-2095. 
For Sale: one Georgia Tech student ticket. Call Mark 8659. 
Wanted 
WEDDING POSTPONED unless flower girl (and mother) find ride to Pittsburgh weekend of Oct. 12. Will pay all expenses from my "piggy bank". Call 287-4191. 
Need ride to Conn. area for break. Will share expenses. Call Pete 1745. 
Need aride to Denver, Colorado over Oct. break. Willing to share expenses. If you have the room, please call 7915. Thanks. 
Please help-I'm in desperate need of a ride to either Harrisburg,PA. or Laurel, MD. for Oct. .break. Willing to share driving and expenses. If you are going that way, please drop me off. Call Sherry 7915. 
Need ride for two to Northern NJ for Oct.
PANTOMIME AUDITIONS ON SUNDAY 
break. steve 1432. The United Mime Workers. a local, 
professional performing mime troupe, Colonial Caterers· at Century Center needs part time bartenders, busboys,
will hold auditions for new members on cashiers, waiters, waitresses, and kitchenSunday, October 7, from noon to 2 PM. 
personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon helpThe Gallery Aquinas, a new studio needed most. Apply in kitchen across supporting all forms of the arts, will from entrance 4 in rear of Century 
Center.
house the auditions at 103V2 W. Monroe 
at Michigan (Next to Inwood's). Anyone 
DESPERATE: need ride to Wash/MD/wishing to audition should have ex-VA. AREA AT FALL BREAK. Will pay$ perience in pantomime, dance, gymnas-for gas etc. Dan 8383. tics, and/or a strong sense of creativity. 
PLEASE HELP US WE'RE DESPERATENo preparation is needed for the try-outs, My friend has never seen "THE Big
and the public is welcome.! Apple" and if we don't get a ride to Conn. for Oct. break, "BroadwaY. Joan" will be heartbroken. We are Willing to help with travel expenses, etc. Please call (SM.C) Mary 5207 or Joan 4662.
Lost&Found 
Need ride to Green Bay Oct. 12. T J 3365. 
Handsome, yet desperate, N D student needs ride to Atlanta, GA. for break. Can
Found: sliver Cross pen, initials TRC 
you help? Cali Mike 3238.
118m In the Math Lib. Call 7278. 
Need Extra Money? American Lung Lost: SMC Class ring 1979 outside Senior Association is looking for part time help .in fund raising. Contact Julie at 287-2321.
Bar after MSU game. Initials CSC. If found, contact (312( 724-6392. 
Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare) anytime after USC ~e on Oct. 20. Will pay ali Lost: Please return LSAT book you tolls. Rod . borrowed in the library to 310 Lyons or 
Need ride to Madison, Wisconsin and
call 7936. 
back Oct 12 weekend. Irene 4262. 
FOUND-Beagle puppy in Corby's over Help. Need one or two rides to St. Bonaventure for October break. Cali Jean
Purdue weekend. Call 232-()582. 
at 8075. 
Lost: One Scrimshaw pendant on leather thong. Design on Ivory is of a red and blue "Grateful Dead" type skull. Great sentimental value. Call Peter 232-o582. 
Lost: Cincinnati Moeller H.'S. Class Ring i'79, Initials MPW. Lo.st at MSU game, :Sect. 34, row 41. Mike 3471. _ 
Wanted-Wanted 28 USC Tix. Call (213) 384-1951 and leave number. I'm paying the price you'll like. Will be In town Sun. nite/Mon. morning on 10/14 or 10/15 Quality Inn. "Don Kramer" 
Need ride to tennessee Game Nov.9. Will share expenses. Call Mary Ann 4-1-4347. 
.,..... ._....... ~ ...... .. -... ·•
~ 
. --­
- 
Need ride to Philad~hia, New Jersey area for Oct. break. ill help with gas$.Dan 1502.  I will play disco music out my windows until I pet 2 USC GA's. Save us all the agony!. John 1209.  Need 2 Navy GA tickets. Call Scott 1963. Need 2 GA tickets for South carolina. Call Bi11287-4823.  
Need ride to Detroit area for 2on Friday, Oct. 12. Will share driving and expenses. ca1112n or 6354. Need ride to Sprintield, Mass. for Oct. break. Please call licia (SMC) 4812. 1need a ride to anywhere near Pough­keepsie, N.Y. or Danbury, Conn. for Oct. break. Will share driving and expenses. Please call 3501.  Wanted! Need MEGA USC tickets, GA or student--Pieeeese--brother, boss, mom, dad, kids, all coming!!Help Marilyn 7936. WANTED: 2 or 3 GA tickets tor Georgia Tech. Call Sheila 4-1-4611 or Teresa 4-1-4908. Wanted: 2 GA tickets for the Georgia · Tech game. Please call Maura at 6874.  Need one GA South Carolina ticket. Call 8565. Need 1 student Dr GA G1Drgl1 TIICII ticket. C1ll G1nd1ff -· I need football tickets to any home game this week if possible. My 4 kids have never been to aR:me. Will pay any price.Call 232-8454. k for Donna.  
Used Bike in good condition. Will pay fair price.Jeff 1386. Ride: Need ride to Wash. D.C., Conn, Phi lade~hia, or N.Y. area. Will share exp. an help drive. Marilyn 7936. DESPERATE: Need ride to Indianapolis on Sunday, Oct. 7. Will share driving expenses. Call Kathy 4122 (SMC)  Gorgeous SMC sophomore desires 2 virile student Georgia Tech tix. Will pay with "big" bucks. Call Colleen at 4-1-4796. Not coming back for Oct 27 game at the end of break? Sell me your ticket! l I need one GA and as man~tudent tix as you can s~are. Will pay Call Megan 4153 or 41 1 at SMC.  Need 2 tix to the USC game. Call collect In evening (303) 722-9921. '70 Alumnus. Needed, 2 Georgia Tech GA tickets, call Chris 1851. Desperately need 4 GA and 3 student tix to USC. Money no object! Call Eric 1384. Will pay $100.00 or more for 2 USC,GA. Call Jeff 2n-4692.  
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Eurpe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $5D0-$1 ,200 monthly. Ex· penses paid. Sightseeing. Free info. write: IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Dei Mar, CA. 92625. Need ride to O'Hare airport morning of  Going home for October break? Sell your USC tix to 2 SMC ladies. We need 2 GA tix and 2student tix. Willing to pay your price. Call 4349 (S~C) Cathy or Leslie. Help! Need 2 GA tix for Georgia Tech. Shiela 7924.  Need 2 GA ticket to any. home game (except Georgia Tech). Diane 3766. Youthful Mom Is coming for USC! Dasperatells$eed student or GA tlxl Will pay mega . Call Mary 6798.  
Oct. 21 and/or ride back to campus from Desperately need 5GA tix to Tennessee!! 


0' Hare Oct. 28th. I'II pay gas money. Call John at 3656. 
Call4635. 
Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC tickets. Call Mark 1478.
Tickets 
Need 8 tlx tor So. Carolina. Call 289-6543, Markle Joe or Mikey.
Need 2Georgia Tech GA tickets for Aunt Sara and Uncle Sal. Call Dave 3537. 
ST. LOUIS CLUB TAILGAITER* SAT.
BIG BUCKS!! I need two GA tickets to 
OCT. 6. GREEN FIELD ACROSS FROM
any home game. Call Dave at 8782
WANTED: 2 GA tix to Georgia Tech. 
SR. BAR. ALL ST. LOUISANSNOW!!
Name your price. Call Jim 291-6019 or 
WELCOME.
633-4311. Both local calls. 
I need two tickets to the Tenn. game. 
To Kip "Francisco" Lease,
Please call Bill at 8444 now.
Need GA tickets for Southern Cal game. 
on the occasion of his ND actin~ debut-­Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283-8012. 
"Break a leg", baby. You're t e best.
I urgently and desperately (redundantly) 
an ardent admirer.

need 4 NO-Georgia Tech GA'a all
Need GA tickets tri Georgia Tech. Call 
together. You will make my family very
Joe 8694. 
Ronald-happy. Call John at 1209. 
Come HomeNeed Southern Cal tickets. Wi II pay top 
Love, Little Darlene

Need one GA or student tix to Georgia
dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. 
Tech. Please call Jake 3180. 
Sunday is Sandy Thomas's Birthday. YouHAVE TICKETS? Will pay $$$1 or 2 GA all know Sandy, the Secretary in Student
Wanted: Any number of GA USC tix.
any home games. Call 7267, Jacki. 
Activities Office. Call her at 7308 andName your price. Cindy 8055. 
wish her a happy day.
South Carolina. Want 2GA's 8831, Paul. 
Wanted: 3 or 4 GA tickets to any home 
No, Sandy, we won't quit!
football game. Will pay good money.
One male student ticket needed for 
'
4-1-5195.
Georgia Tech game. 255-6716. 
Polonius, Merci beaucoup paur Ia consecration.
Help! !$$Desperately need GA tix for two
$$$Will pay top dollar for GA and/or 
Casse une jambe ce soir.
C.S.C. nuns. Either South Carolina, Navy
student tix to Georgia Tech. Call Greg at~ , La critiquese
or Clemson. Call Ann 2n-4976.
1841. Translation Please, Budd??
Need 2 student tix for Geo. Tech. Call
Wanted-Georgia Tech tixs, will pay top$ Sue. 4600 (SMC).
Call1865. 
Ursu, We are so wasted!! Is it your birthday?
Need 1 GA tix to Georgia Tech!. Please
SMC Chic Desperate... Need 4 GA Georg. 
It don't matter, Happy Birthday...man,
call Diane 7906.
Tech and 2 GA USC tix. Call Beth 4749. 
Ghost, Russian, Whiteboy Will sell USC student tix. Taking best 
Zeroe and LankParents have rare blood disease. Only 

offer. Call Mary Ann 4-1-4347.
known cure is 2 GA Ga. Tech. tix. Call 
"Hi Tonu!"
Glenn 8797 and help a needy family. Need several Georgia Tech tickets both If you enjoy cracking the whip, call Beth
Need many GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call GA and student. Please call 232-7314 Willard at 8098.Kathy (SMC) 4776. anytime. Thanks! Today is Dave Ferguson's Birthday.
I need 8 Tennessee tickets preferably I WANT TO MAKE IT WITH YOU!!! A 
Please call and wish this handsome guy a
together. Call 277-1494. deal; will trade student USC ticket and/or Happy 18th! • 
Personals 
Need several GA tickets for Clemson 
Tennessee games. Ca111n1. You name 
the price, I'll pay if right!! 
$$$for USC GA. Also need GA's for any P.S. My best to you, Dave. (Teri).
Will pay top dollar for two USC GA home game. Call4-1-4801. . tickets--Call Larry 1049. 
Attention Ladies: Call Richard B. Budde, Jr. and wish theNeed 2 GA Navy tix for 2 Minnesotans. Needed-Two student tickets to USC. Call dick a Happy 21st. 1573.
Call Mitch (SMC 4376. Rob 2106. Mary, Ros, and Kelly,
I will pay richly for 2 or 3 GA tickets to Need 2GA and several student tickets for We'ew look'in for a wild week end--soSouth Carolina game. Call Scott at 8686. Georgia Tech, call Mike at 1748. 
get ready and we' II go wild together. 
Need 2GA tickets to any home game, will Need 2GA Tix to Georgi(! Tech. Call1338 pay good price. Call 284-4360. or 8725. Dear J.J., 
I just wanted to wish a very happy 20th Need 2 GA tickets for USC. Will pay Help! Desperatelt need 4 GA and 2 birthday to the prettiest South Carolinian anything. Cali Dan at 1621. Student Georgia ech tickets. Cali Joe Southern Belle here on campus. 
1644. Love, Anne Need USC student tickets. Paying $20 (another Southern Belle each. Call Larry 1756. Help!l desperately need 3 tickets for 
Need 1 GA ticket for USC. Call Mike at  Georgia Tech, please call Katie at 7911.  FELLOW Romans and other European travelers,  
1384.  Help! I'm frantic--need 8 tickets for So.  Grab the evening train to 829 Miner  
Cal. game. Please call Katie at 7911.  street, It's not much, but there will be  
Please call 288-7914 or 259-0286 if you have any extra tickets to the NO/USC game on 1Q-20-79. .•  Need 2GA tix for Georgia Tech. Will pay Cali Duke, 1184.  plenty of beer. 8:30 PM tonight until Kick-Off Saturday. Questions, 234-Q843. Timmy,  
Wanted: 6 tickets each, Southern Cal. and Georgia Tech. Call Seve Hamilton · (712)732-2842 days and (712) 732-5229  Need 4 So. Carolina GA tickets for family-help! Call Bill 3454 or Mike 289-6543.  l'm so glad you're here. Love, Z'Barre Lit' Sis  
nights.  Desperately need 3 STUDENT GA Tech  
Need 2 GA tix for South Carolina and 3  tickets. Call 7439.  
GA or student tix for Navy game. Please call Rene 4-1-4006.  Big Bucks-Need 3Student Georgia Tech tlx. Mike 3114.  If you have a bright, enthusiastic voice, and love to talk, we have a job for you.  
Authentic USC Alum needs 4 GA USC ~ix, he knows he won't get a deal ...don't ~ive him one, call Cam 3434.  Lost: Set of keys on "Destin" keychaln. If found, please call Mike at 3265.  Dr!lSS as you like. Day or eve. shifts, part-time. Delivery help also needed. Apply in person 9-2 pm week days, 1633  
Wanted--Wanted 28 USC tix. Call (213)384-1951 and leave number. I'm paying the price you'lllike. Will be in town Sun. night/!Mon. · morning· 1Q-14-or ·1Q-15. Quality Inn.  Will trade American Airlines half-prite coupon and/or cash for one USC GA. Cali Don. 8762. Need 2 GA GA. Tech tlx. Call Jim H95.  Lincolnway , S.B.Suite D . (Wooden Indian off plaza next to Holly's .Landing.) Need one GA ticket for Georgia Ted1. Call Chris .2!7·13!JS.. . •.. , .••••• #  
"DON KRAMER".  

1 
1 
4 
j 
j j 
l 
j j l j 
l 
I 


Friday, October 5, 1979-page 24
SRQrts 
Against Georgia Tech Devine hopes Irish maintain intensity 

by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Intensity can win a lot of football games, but an emotion­al victory can also lead to emotional letdowns in following weeks. Notre Dame head coach Dan Devine is hoping the Irish can maintain the momentum this week, as Georgia Tech invades Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. 
"I guess the key to the Georgia Tech game--and the rest of the season for that matter--is maintaining the kind of intensity we had against Michigan State," Devine not­ed. "We played with a great deal of enthusiasm and emotion and did a great job of control­ling the line of scrimma~e both offensively and defensively. When that happens, everything falls into place. If we can maintain that kind of play from week to week, we've got a good chance of having a very good football season." 
Tech comes to Notre Dame 
==========-============================ 
For ND Invitational 
Piane names starting seven 
byJohn Smith Sports Wn'ter 
After five weeks and 450 miles of rugged training, the starting seven runners for today's Notre Dame Invitational Cross Country meet have been named. The seven are Tony Hatherly, Marc Novak, John Filosa, Carl Bicicchi, Charlie Fox, Chuck Aragon, and Aldo Bartolini, and they will compete in the Blue Division of the meet scheduled for 2:00 PM. The Irish Runners will face such competition as Auburn Univer­sity, Illinois State University, and last year's defending champion, the University of Mid•Igan. 
Coach J ose~h Piane had not announced his starting runner earlier this month in an attempt to insure that his seven would he the best suited for the five mile race over the Burke Memorial Golf Course. His decision was made difficult by an abundance of good runners. Undoubtedly, many of them· will see action by season's end. As of now, runners such as Matt Catr Pcre Burger, John McCarth}' ] im Slattery, ] im 
Moyar, Tim McMahon, Dave 
Maley, Tim Bartrand, and Kev­
in Olsen will re.J?resent the Irish 
in the Open Division of today's 
meet. The starting time for the 
Open Division is 4:00pm. 
The depth of the Irish is the most surprising aspect of this year's squad. After a fine 4-0 dual meet record last year, Notre Dame lost six letterment to graduation. Piane himself admitted, "I though that we'd be weak." Fortunately, the unusually long preseason (they had two meets before the ND Invitational last year) has allowed Piane and Assistant Coach Ed Kelly the necessary time to round their team into shape. 
1
''The guys have been traintng well; l'vereally1become optimis­tic,'' said a busy Piane as he made final plans for Friday in between teaching his physical education classes and oversee­ing his s9uads afternoon prac­tice. In his fifth year as head coaciJI. Piane carries a .692 winning percentage in dual meet performances. 
Piane has been met with many pleasant surprises! this season. The preformances of the fresh-after an emotional uplift of their own, as they defeated William and Mary, 33-7, for their first win of the season last Saturday. 
The Yellowjackets are now 1-1-1 on the season, with a loss to Alabama and a 7-7 tie with Florida earlier in the season. 
With eight of eleven starters returning, Tech coach Pepper Rodgers has relied on his defense to keep the yellow­jackets close. After a shaky start against Alabama, the de­fense has only allowed one touchdown in each of the last two ~ames. Senior linebackers AI Richardson and Henry John­son head this relatively young squad, which includes four juniors, three sophomores, and one freshman (strong safety Mark Sheffield). 
"Tech had an awful lot of experience to start with on defense and that's a big advan­tage," Devine said. "Playing against a team like Alabama the first week certainly was a difficult way to start, but they've come back." 
With the loss of their best running back ever, Eddie Lee Ivery, Tech had a lot of question marks on offense. The win over William and Mary helped ans­wer some of those questions, as sophomore quarterback Mike 
man tandem of Bartolini and' Kelleycompleted 9 of 16 passes Bicicchi has been especially for 153 yards and two tou~h­satisfying. Any time one downs, and freshman runmn_g freshman can fill a starting role back, Ronny Cone • had his it has to be gratifying for a be~t _performance of the seas_on, coach, but· Piane has two. g~mmg 122 ya!ds on 18 carnes. Bartolini ihails tfrom Toronto Kelley obviously can throw [continued on page 211 as well as Mark ~errmann '!r 
anyone else we ll see this 
Orioles win 9-8 
Angels' rally falls one run short 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Eddie Murray drove in four runs with a single and a homer as the Baltimore Orioles scored eight runs in the first two innings and survived a late rally to edge the California Angels 9-8 yesterday. 
After trailing 9-1 in the sec­ond game of the best-of-five series, the Angels scored seven runs in the last four innin~s and had the bases loaded m the ninth before reliever Don Stan­house retired Brian Downing on a force play for the final out. 
The victory, behind the nine­hit pitching of Mike Flanagan and Stanhouse, gave the Orioles a 2-0 lead in the best-of-five American League Champion­ship series which continues on the W~t Coast tonight. 
Flanagan, whose 23 victories topped the major leagues dur­ing the regular season, retired 15 consecutive batters after Dan Ford rapped his second first-inning homer in two days. 
By the time California's Rod Carew doubled with two out in the sixth and scored on a single by Carney Lansford, Balti­more's Eastern Division cham­
pions had moved to the brink of qualifying for their fifth Wodd Series in 14 years. 
California added a run in the 
year," Devine noted, probably 
· recalling that Kelley threw for 295 yards and two touchdowns against notre Dame in last year's 28-21 Irish win. "And it looks like they've settled their running back situation, particu­larly if Cone keeps performing the way he did Saturday. ''Everything seemed to click for them, and a game like that, especially when it's your first victory, can do a lot for a team.'' Irish halfback Vagas Fergus­on, rapidly closing in on Notre Dame's career rushing mark, is hoping the Irish can click a­gainst Georgia Tech like they did in last year's game in Atlanta. In that contest, Fer­~uson set a single game rush­mg ·record, as he . rambled through the Wreck for 255 yards. Coming off his best p-erformance of the season a­gainst Michigan State (169 yards), Ferguson needs only 281 more yards to tie Jerome Heavens for the all-time mark. The Irish will be relatively healthy this week, because no one got hurt against Michigan State. Dave Waymer is expec­ted to sit out again this week, but freshman Dave Duerson proved he can play well last week. Tim Huffman, who returned to action a~ainst State, will start again this week. Linebacker Mike Whittington, who didn't play because of a charlie horse, and his replace­ment, Brendan Moynihan, are still nursing minor injuries, and Devine indicated he may start a 
freshm~n-~ tha~~eo~­
seventh on singles by Don Bay­lor and Downing plus a sacri­fice fly by Bobby Grich, then knocked out Flanagan in the eighth by scoring on a walk to pinch-hitter Merv Rettenmund, an error by first baseman Mur­ray and Lansford's second RBI single. 
Stanhouse, the winner m Game 1, came in and held on despite yielding a run-scoring single to Baylor and a sacrifice fly to Downing in the eighth, and an RBI grounder to Carew and Lansford's third run-scor­ing single in the ninth. The ace reliever had 21 saves during the re-gular season, five of them for Flanagan. ' 
lr--

11 Name 
11 Address,_________ 
CitV.--,----------­
State~--------­ZIP~-------------­
SCRIBE NOW 
$17_for the remainder 
o_f the academic _year. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
. . 
Notre Dame, IN 465 56 
All Subscriptions must be paid in advance. 
Have The Observer mailed to _your home each .day~ 
---·~·--· 
-· -~·...._·-"-·-·· 





