Hesburgh 's rejection ofproposal -page 6
I I I 
VOL. XIII, NO. 86 
Hesburgh declares parietals m.ust stand 
by Ann Gales News Editor 
University President Theodore Hesburgh rejected the Campus Life Council's proposal to reduce parietals to a hall offense on Friday, saying that such a change would eventually "erode the present regulation to meaninglessness.'' The rejection came in a letter addressed to Student Body President Andy McKenna, which appears on today's Editorial page. 
In his letter, Hesburgh stressed the importance of parietals at Notre Dame, stating, The present system of parietals is very much a part of what the University stands for: standards that are higher than most universities, but which can create an atmosphere conducive to education and growth, if they are observed.'' 
"One does not grow by eliminating or ignoring reasonable standards, but by observing them,'' he added. 
Hesburgh also commented, ''I am not naive enough to imagine there is no hanky panky here. If people really want to get into trouble, they will find a way of doing so, whatever the rules. However, it is not a permanent living condition here. Bad situations, when they come to light, are judiciable according to a single standard.'' 
In conclusion, Hesburgh srud that he believed the present parietals system to to "generally healthy, wholesome and goOd." 
The issue of Jurisdiction over parietals first surfaced when parietals was themain topic of discussion at a students' rights forum held Sept. 
28. At the forum, Dean of Students James Roemer stated, "The rationale behind parietals has nothing to do with sexuality." Rather, he said, "It is a quiet hour type of thing where at certain times that hall is supposed to be quiet and other people are supposed to be out of the hall.'' 
Questioning this rationale, students at the forum asked Roemer why panetals violations could not be dealt with by hall judicial boards if the Plll"P.Ose of parietals was merely to protect the privacy of hall residents. Roemer responded that while hall boards d1d not then have jurisdiction over parietals, it would be possible for students, using the University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh rejected the ac 
[continued on page 9] panetals proposal last 1-<riday. [photo by john Macor] 
Destroying troops 


Chinese attack Vietnamese 
TOKYO (AP) Vietnam claimed yesterday it had inter­cepted all prongs of a Chinese attack on five-northern provinces, killing more than 1,000 Chinese troops and destroying about 60 
Chinese tanks  in  two  days  of  
fighting.  
''Many  columns  of  Chinese  

aggressor trOOJ?S were intercept­
ed and are bemg encircled and strongly attacked,'' said the Viet­nam news agency, monitored in Bangkok. It said the main action was in Hoang Len Sonn, Cao Bang and Lang Son provinces. 
The agency earlier said Chin­ese planes bvmbed factories, power plants and communica­tions facilities in the north Sun­

liJFortune Center begins full 24-hour service 
Starting today the LaFortune Student Center will be open 24 hours daily, except Sunday morn­ings from 3 a.m. to 10 a.m. 
This project, sponsored by the Student Government, will im­prove the access of students to LaFortune, which has been "a long-standing problem in the minds of students here at Notre Dame,'' according to Andrew McKenna, Student Body Presi­dent. 
The areas being opened would include the Rathskellar, the first floor lobby, and the Ballroom. The Huddle would continue to operate at its regular hours· 7:30 
a.m. 
to midnight on weekdays, 11 

a.m. 
to 1 a.m. on Saturdays, and noon to midnight on Sundays. 


The extended hours of LaFortune will be in effect for a trial period until March 19.. At the end of this period, represen­tatives and Student Affrurs will meet to assess the results of the program. An evalution will then be made as to whether or not to extend this program. 
Security wiH be increased in and around LaFortune durin~ the early mornin~ hours, but ) ohn 
M. Reid, drrector of Student Activities does not foresee "the need for a securiry guard to be on duty in the building. " 
day, inflicting "terrible dam­Vietnamese people, which has age" and causing many civilian become the v1ctim of fresh casualties. aggression, is capable of 
An air raid alert was ordered in standing up for itself this time Hanoi, 80 miles from the Chinese again."border, Japan's Kyodo news Tass said China sent "many agency reported, but Vietnam's infantry divisions' ' backed byradio said the capital was calm tanks and artillery into Vietnam and that hundreds of thousands and that the Chinese were "bar­
of Vietnamese held a rally to barously shellin~ border towns" denounce the invasion. Chinese and committing 'brutal crimes . . forces crossed the border Satur­resulting in enormous material day along a 450 mile front. damage and human casualties." 
Radio Hanoi said Vietnamese The claims could nor be inde­troops had killed about 250 pendently verified. Chinese and destroyed or The Vietnam News Agency
damaged 46 tanks in fierce said Chinese troops, tanks and battles in Vietnam's northern planes drove up to six miles into provinces..It said the Chinese Vietnam, attacking at least one had occupied 11 toWns and provincial capital and occupyingvillages 1in ali" five border Vietnamese border posts and provinces -Cao Bang, Lang Son, villages along the length of the Hoang Lien Sonn, Lai Chau and front. Vietnam said earlier the Quang Ninh. Chinese had penetrated as deep
The Soviet Union warned as 30 miles into Vietnam but the China to withdraw its troops discrepancy was not explained
"before it it too late" and said it yesterday.would "honor its obligations" to Peking said it launched the 
Hanoi under a treaty of friend­"counterattack" in retaliation for 
ship and cooperation signed last repeated "armed incursions" by year. Vietnamese forces into China. "All responsibility for the Peking's official Hsinhua news 
consequences of continuing agency said Chinese forces would aggression by Peking... will be return to the frontier "after borne by the present Chinese hitting back at the aggressors as 
leadership," the official Soviet far as is necessary. " 
news agency Tass said. Intelligence sources in Bang­
But the announcement seemed kok said the Chinese attack was to indicate Moscow would not expected to be "shon, sharp and intervene, at least for the brutal" but that_thev doubted the 
present. It said: ''The heroic :Lconhnued on page 9] MONDAY, fEBRUARY 19, 1979 

Carroll Hall releases survey results 
bv Tim Sullivan StaffReporter 
Results of a survey on student 
opinion regarding parietals were 
released to the Observer last 
night by Carroll Hall representa­
tives. The survey, which was 
administered by the HPC and 
financed by the Student Govern­
ment, revealed that the vast 
majority of res_pondants were in 
favor of reducmg parietals to a 
hall offense. 
Phil Wildenhain, Carroll resi­
dent, stated that a presentation 
of the results would be brought to 
the HPC tomorrow night and that 
"action will be recommended." 
In regards to what specific 
action the HPC may elect to take, 
Tim Coonan, Carroll representa­
tive, responded, "We want to see 
how the Hall Presidents react to 
the survey first, before we come 
up with a concrete proposal. 
However, we feel that the 
student responses warrant a lot 
of thinkin~ by students, the 
administration, and the student 
government on this issue. ' ' 
In response to University Pres­
ident Fr. Theodore M. 
Hesburgh's rejection of the CLC 
parietals -proposal to reduce 
violaitons to a hall offense, Chris 
Stoushton, Carroll resident, said 
that It was "expected. " 
''In light of the survey results, 
one wonders if the administration 
is really in touch with the 
students,'' Stoughton explained. 
''The results of the survey, and 
the CLC proposal rejection, indi­
cate that the students and the 
administration are at two oppo­
site poles,'' Coonan agreed. 
Andy McKenna, Student Body 
President, stated that the 
Student Government "had per­
cieved a difference · of r opinion 
(on the parietals issue) six 
months ago, and that is why we 
came up the the CLC proposal.'' 
''We ve taken the issue as far 
as we can. All our channels have 
been exhausted, and there are no 
more constructive steps avail­
able," McKenna explained. 
"We have hope that his survey 
and action wh1ch stems from It 
will open the lines of communica­
tion between the administration 
and the students," said Stough­
[conhnued on page 8] 


ND students must remove cars in D-lot 
Snow will be removed from D-1 and D-2 tomorrow . Cars should be moved to C-4 or C-5 during the day, and moved back into D-1 and 2 by 4 p.m1 tomorrow after­noon. Students are asked not to park in Stepan parking lot unless absolutely necessary. 

·-I 


'News in brief 
Agents follow 'bundles_ ' a"est five on drug charges 
caitJil.A., Texas (AP) -Agents followed a trial of bundles 100 miles across Texas betore arresting five men on federal drug charges, the U.S: Customs Service said. The 70-pound bal~s­an estimated 10.000 pounds in all -fell from a low-flymg,Columbia-registe~e~ _DC:-4 _Friday as Custo~ agent~ pursue_d the aircraft, authont1es satd. Farmers who d gone Into thetr fields to protect their cattle during cold 'wl"athr;r fOund the bales. Officials later said 3,000 pounds of martJuana had_ ~een recovered along the 100-mile route from Corp~ Chnstt to Cotulla. lbree men were arrested and the DC-4 se1zed when the aircraft landed in Cotulla. Two others were arrested later. 
Kemp denounces Carter 

in handling Iranian crisis 
W ASHJNGTON (AP) 1-A leading conservaD:ve congre~s~~ yesterday denounced President Caner's handlmg of the cns1~ m Iran and what he termed the administration's ''accofi1!11odatton to Soviet provocation." Rep. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y.,_ satd Caner has meekly accepted serious diplomatic defeats m Ir~ and elsewhere for fear of disrupting arms cont;rol talks_ Wlth the Soviet Union. "I urge the president to gtve _a vms_e to the conunon sense of the American people that_ this ~tlO!J must lead, no follow, step forward and not retreat, m befnen~g and protecting legitimate governments around the world, Kemp said. 
Chicago exhibits weapons 

in Defense Technology '79 
CHICAGO (AP) -"Defense Technology '79," an exhibit of moaem-ctay weapons ex_I>ertise a,nd seminars, opened yesterday to a private audience of international "window shop~rs" as hundreds of anti-war protesters dem~nstr~ted outs1de .. the exhibit center. About 350 persons, carrymg s1gns such as No Nukes Is Good Nukes," gathered in the parking lot of the. O'Hare Exhibition Center m suburban Rosemont an hour after the exhibit opened. About two dozen helmeted police officers stood shoulder-to-shoulder with clubs thrust forward to separate the demonstrators. Laurie Tockey, a member of the steering committee organizing the domonstr~tio~s, s~d, "W~ think t~~ will be the largest peace demonstration m Chicago smce 1968, when thousanas of persons demonstrated against th_e Vie~ War while the Democratic National Convention was m sess1on. 
Strike threatens Mardi Gras,' unions agree to negotiate 
NEW ORlEANS (APl-A weary fed_eral me9lator got negotia­tions back on the tra.Ck yesterday m a poltce . strike tha~ has threatened to ruin the city's Carnivyd ~,di. Gras festtvals. "Both the police union an1. th~ city ~ve agreed to resume negotiations at 3 p.m. today, satd medi~tor Ansel Ga!rett, ~ho spent yesterday shuttling between clty and _eoltce uruon representatives. The break came after the pres1dent of the police union dared Mayor Ernest Morial to ftre strikers, saying such action would immediately send garbage_ collectors and firemen into a sympathy walkout. 


Weather 
Becoming mostly sunny and cold today with highs in the mid 20s. Fair and not as cold tomorrow with lows in the mid to upper teens. Panly sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs in the mid 
to upper 30s. 
Monday, February 19, 1979 
2 pm--LOW INCOME TAX ASSISTANCE, sponsored by adm. actg. dept., TOM DOOLEY ROOM, LAFORTUNE 
4:30 pm--FIUv1, "harvest of shame," RM 101 LAW SCHOOL 
5:30 pro--MEETING, french club, FACUL1Y DINING ROOM, SOUTI-I DINING HAll. 
7 pm--COMPU1ER MINI-COURSE, advanced course in tso, 115 CCMB 
7 pro--BASKETBAll.., st. mary's vs iupu, ANGELA A1HLETIC FACIU1Y 
7, 9, 11 pm--FILM, "silent movie," ENGR. AUD. 
7:30 pm--FIL\1, "if...," WASH. HAll. 
8:15 pro--CONCERT, pagacnik-onczay duo, sponsored by music dept., UB. AUD. 

-~---~-----------------. 
Monday, Feb. 19, 1979-page 2 

Newscarriers fight for court time 
INDIANAPOliS [AP] -News­paper deadbeats beware! A state legislator is sponsoring a bill to make it easier for young paper carriers to sue customers who don't pay up. 
r-=The Observer_ Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan I Asst. Night Editor: Pam Degnan Copy Readers: Debbie , Dahrling, Mike Ridenour Layout Staff: Margaret 
Editorial Layout: Margie Brassil Features Layout: Greg Hedges Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typists: Kim Convey, Beth Willard, Bill Swift, Katie Brehl Early Morning Typist: Kim 

Day Editor: Kate Kilkuskie Ad· Layout: joe "Double jeopardy" Murphy; Bob 
Rudy . 
Photographer: john Macor 
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. SubsCTiptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Rep. William Roach, who in­troduced a bill to waive the $10 court filing fee for paper carriers under 18, remembers his own experiences trying to collect from customers on his route. 
•'I was a newspaper carrier for five years backin the 1940s. I delivered the Cincinnati Enquirer and it was rriy sole source of income," he satd. "When I'd go around to collect, I'd have people pee_ping behind the curtai~. I ve had them slam the door m my face. I've had them put their dogs on me." 
'Parents get real incensed.' 
So the West Terre Haute Democrat decided to do some­thing for the carriers. H_is position is simple: "When a kid gets up at five o'clock in the morning so you can have your paper, he deserv!!s.' t? be_ paid." 
The way the s1tuatton 1s now, Roach siad, "our courts are structured so that truly small claims are just forgotten.'' · 
"A kid's got five deadbeat customers who haven't been paying him. He has to come up with $50 on the chance of maybe getting $30 back,'' Roach ex­plained. "So many haven't ftled because they're afraid to file." 
Rc>ach said he is concerned that even though the filing fee is returned if the plaintiff is suc­cessful in his SUit, it is denying youngsters access to the legal system. 
And the youngsters aren't the only· ones who are upset by customers who don't pay up. "Parents get real incensed," 
Roach said. ''Not only are you gypping their kids out of their rightful due, but parents have got a lot of time and effon invested, 
too. They're out there folding papers, it's a real family pro­Ject.'' 
One parent who is interested in Roach's bill is former state Rep. Roben Mahowald. His 12-year­old son, John, has a paper route on Indianapolis' northeast side and occasionally has problems with customers who don't pay. 
''A small claims court judge came out to talk to John's class right around Christmas,'' Mahowald said. "He found out all about filing suit. He was all for it." 
One of John's /roblem cus­tomers, Mahowal said was a man named Norman who lived in an apanment complex. 
''Not too long after the judge came to his class, ] ohn saw Norman,'' Mahowald said. "John told him, 'If you don't pay up, I'm going to sue you and Ive already talked to the judge.' 
John got his money and now they're friends." 

STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION Building a Better 
··································~~······· 
....m.E.m.O.R.Y . -JERRV•LU01S · 


coauthor of the Memory Book tuesday, Feb. 20 
7:30 pm library auditorium 

The Student Union RECORD SALE 
Records Priced at Cost!! 
•February 19-23 
• From Noon to 5 pm 
Second Floor LaFortune Room 2-d 
This will be the only time the records will ever be priced this low!! 

The Observer Monday, Feb. 19, 1979 -page 3 

Mardi Gms etUieJ last weel:nul prrx;/Mcing many chan/able losers amia few I11Cly witmers. (photo by john Macor) 

SMC Assembly donates money for Bowl Regionals 

AU suggestions for improve­
nx:nt of the handbook should be 

Saint Mary's Studmt A.ssemb­given to Saint Mary's Student ly voted to allot me $800 remain­Body Pn:sident, Gail Darragh. ing from last yar's 21 Oub to a Darragh, in tum, will present the fund pool fCK the upcoming suggestions to Student Govern­Coli~ Bowl Rrgionals. The: ment fur voting. College Bowl, which has nine 1be council, concerned with schools panicipating, is a Sru­the role of hall section represen­dem Govnnmmt-spooson:d tatives, has been studying the competition in academics. dfcc~ and usefullness of 
A round-robin rournarnmt to the representatives by discussing select the rqional champions their jobs with them. The will be held at Saint Mary's on Srudent Assembly is trying to March 8 and 9. Student A.ssemb­promote student participation in ly voted to donate the money to school activities; these section aid in funding of housing, fuod, representatives serve as a direct and various odx:r competition contact link to the students. expenses. The tournament The assembly has found winners will be eligible fur-the · through their investigation that National c:ornpctition to be bdd in each individual hall at Saint Miami, fl., larcr this year. Mary's seems to utilize the 
The Assembly. which rorm:n­representatives in different man­ed last night, also discussed ners. At the present time, only election proccdurc:s fur-next the underclassmen tend to seek year's stucknt body presidmt out the representatives as a and vice presidents. A fence was source of information, with up­issued by stwkru gow:mmau oo perclassmen tending to rely on Feb. 12 infonning Saint Mary's their past experiences. s_tudents on this yar's n:gula­Basically, the representatives uons. arc ~ work along side the 
Nominations begin Feb. 26 and resident advisors to keep stu­close, with all platforms due by dents informed on activities and midnight on March 4. to generate enthusiasm for them. 
Campaigning wiU begin at The assembly will attempt, by midnight on March 4 and cxrend studying the situation to create to midnight on March 1 L guidelines fur future representa­
March 12 will be wring day at tives. Saint Mary's with a goal of 100 percent VO(tt rum-our set by student govnnmcnt. 

Regina Hall 

In an dfCKt to achieve tlx:ir 2001, student gow:rnmmt will liavc · booms available inrcsid~ and the dining to host halls. lf ncce;sary. absnutt ballots can be obtained by con­
tacting the student ~­
Talent Show 

Updates on nominations, cam­paign procedures. and vou:r-in­kgina I-WI will host the First fonnanon will be publisbcd at a Annual Regina Talent Show this later date in The ObserJ~eT. Friday at 8 p.m. in th~ Mor~u 
ln an dfCKt to~ Srudcot linle lbeatre. Hall residents will Govcmmc:nt, the cum:nt admini­pcrfonn in various vocal, instru­stration is asking all studcms mental, and dance numbers. involved in student govttnmmt Admission price is 50 cents, to study the Studeot ~ with procc:eds going t~ this ye~· s manual fur-irnprovunmas. school-wide chanty dnve. 
'Evolution of a Tradition' 


Festival focuses on culture 
Andrew Segovia 

medalist Wilma Rudolph will mented. 1\ccordmg to Atkins StaffReporter give a lecture in the Library the show will feature male ap.' Auditorium at 7 p.m. pare! from]. Riggins and female 
Planning has been completed Best known for having been fashion from Paul Harris. 
for the annual Black Cultural Arts the first American women to win Atkins stated that the fesrival 
Festival on the Notre Dame three gold medals in track and had received suppon from the campus beginning this Sunday field in a single Olympiad, Wilma entire Universiry. 
and lasting to Mar. 3. Focusing 
Rudolph is currently a versatile "We would like to emphasize on the theme, "The Evolution of professional woman whose lec­that the festival is not solely for 
a Tradition,'' the weeklong event tures are described as thought­the black communicy," the co­will include talks by nationally­
provoking and motivational. planner stated, "the speakersknown leaders, dramatic perfor­
and programs will cover a wide
Vinnie Burrows, a noted black mances, and talent exibitions and range of topics which are of
dramatist, will perform at the a discussion of "The State of the Saint Mary's Little Theater on interest to e"" -·~-· '' Mrican Revolution. 
Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Burrows The goals of the annual festival 
has received critical acclaim for 
are to provide an awareness of 
her solo programs which provide 
the black cultural experience, an 
Foundation
a dramatic study of changing
understanding of the various 
black life in America. aspects of black life and a knowledge of the achievements A discussion dealing with the 

honors 
and talents of black Americans. "State of the Mrican Revolu­The festival seeks to accorh· tion'' will be held in the Hayes­plish this through round table Healy Auditorium at 7 p.m. on 

Carberry 
discussions, guest speakers, Wednesday. The discussion will seminars, appearance of enter­feature various experts in current The Winston Churchill Foun­tainers and a display of the Mrican politics. dation of the United States has various talents of black students Members of the black com­named Dr.;ames J. Carberry as within the Notre Dame commun-munity at Notre Dame will dis­the Richar King Mellon Fellow icy. . play their talent at the Library at Cambridge University, 
The schedule of events will Auditorium on Friday at 7 p.m. England, where he is presencly open Sunday night at 7 p.m. in According to Atkins the show Churchill Fellow, fromJanuary to the Library Auditorium with a will include "various musical June, 1979. program entitled ''Gospel Soul presentations, dramatic read­Each year, the Foundation on Sunday,'' featuring choirs mgs, exhibition of art work and selects one Churchill Fellow at from black churches in the South architecture designs." Cambridge for the Mellon Fel­
Bend area. Benjamin Hooks, executive lowship. 
•'This program is an effort to director of the NAACP, will Carberry, who is professor of bridge the gap between blacks in lecture on civil rights Saturday in chemical engineering at the Uni­South Bend and the blacks on Washington Hall at 3 p.m. versicy of Notre Dame, also has campus and to demonstrate to The festival will conclude on been invited to present lectures the protestant churches that i:hey Saturday night with the ''Student on "Oxidation Catalysis Over are welcome on campus," Dale Talent Show" in the Monogram Supported Metals" at Universicy Atkins, co-planner of the festival, Room of the ACC at 8 p.m. College, University of London; stated. : The fashion show is run entire­Imperial College, London, and 
On Monday Olympic gold ly by students," Atkins com-Oxford University. 

Cancellations due for Jr. weekend 
Important Notice to all Juniors: 
Cancellations for Junior Parents Weekend will be taken until Wednesday with no refunds being given to those who have not cancelled by this date. There can be no exceptions. For questions or cancellations please call Michon (6841) or Tom (1149). 
~ 
NEW CLASS
GUADALAJARA 
Location: St. Mary'~ College

SUMMER 

Day: every thursday 


SCHOOL 
Time: 6: 30 p.m.

University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses, i.e., 
Beginning: Feb. 15
anthropology, bilingual edu­cation, history, Spanish, 
Place: McCandless Hall 
etc. at Guadalajara. Mexico, 
. 


ptano room
July 2-August 10. Tuition: 
$265. Board and room with Mexican family: $300. 
For further information:
Write 


Call 277-4050
Guadalajara 

Summer School 






WEIGHT 

Tucson 85721 (602) 626-4729 


, 


The Observer 


audio-tpccialiltl 
AUDIO SPECIAliSTS, 401 N. MICIDGAN, SOl.m/BEND, IN. 46601. PHONE: 234-5001. 

SONY: £'lQJJD)TICQ)
STR-V2 
FM STEREO/FM-AM RECEIVER Features 
• 
25 watts per channel. m1mmum RMS at8 ohms from 20Hz to 20kHz with no more than 0 3% Total HarmoniC Distortion 

• 
Excellent FM recept1on qual1ty. w1th FET RF front-end and Phase-Loc~ed-Loop IC stereo multiplex stage 

• 
S1mpte. accurate station selection. w1th center-station and s1gnat-strength tun1ng meters and linear FM d1al scale 

•Accurate. 
stepped-attenuator volume. bass. and treble controls 


Today ourdisplay model of this SONYCD1'1110118fd, Regularly $260 is 16 percent off 
The Audio Specialists is running it~ annual De_mo Dt~;tch Auction Sale. The way it works is simiple: On February 10 all demos m our Audio & Vtdeo departments wer~ marked at 10°(o off suggested list. Every business day the price will dtop 1% per day unttl a component ts sold. Only one of each item will be sold at the sale price. The sale ends February 28th when everything remaining will be 25% off _ 
Thepressure is on! Buy early and get the best selection or gamble and wait for even bigger deals. 
Nl tape prices are discounted by the same amounts during the sale and anyone bringing in this ad will get another 2% offallpnces. 
Come in and Save!! 



FORALOT.OF WRONG REASONS. 
It might surprise you, but Hughes doesn't make aircraft. What we do has been expressed nicely by our Chairman of the Board, Dr. Allen E. Puckett: 'We're involved in a wide range of communications technologies, making sensors that operate on all parts of the electronic spectrum, and computers and signal processors that issue commands or store and present data. In the midst of the dramatic electronic information explosion, Hughes is putting data sensing, communications and data processing advances to work for people like you and me." 
If you're an EE, ME, AE, IE, Physics, Material Science or Computer Science major, you could become part of this exciting and challenging commitment. You could become involved in aerospace, ground systems, industrial electronics, space and communications and research. And don't worry about getting lost-at Hughes, we work in small groups where individual initiative is valued highly. 
Hughes-for all the right reasons. For details on our opportunities, contact your placement office, or write: Manager, College Relations, Hughes Aircraft Company, P.O. Box 90515, Bldg. 100/445, Los Angeles, CA 90009. 

r------------------, 
l I HUGHES l I 
I I 
L------------------~
Creating a new world with electronics 
An equal opponufM),· employer. M1 F I HC 
U S C!J~rPnshrr reqUJr~d 


~ . ----= I __._._!§ 
.·:A:,.,..., 
.. ,. .: 
~ 

Monday, Feb. 19, 1979-page 4 
How "Crazy Dave" got his name. [photo byJohn MacorJ 
,
.•. · 


Committee urges nation 
to plan jobs 
A study by the Committee foe National Service urges the nation to engage a million or more young people in a new system of voluntary National Service to help meet this country's non­military needs. 
1be committee includes Uni­versity President, Fr. 1heodore 
M. Hesburgh. 
A plan proposed by the com­mittee envisions a time when service foe at least a full year after secondary oe higher educa­tion is a common expectation of 

, all young men and women. 

Candidates to discuss 
•

campatgns 
1bere will be a meeting foe all eersons interested in running foe :sophomore, Junior, and Senior class officers Monday, Feb 19 at 10 p.m. at the Student Govern­ment offices. Flection and cam­paign rules will be discussed. 
All persons must run on a ticket which includes a class president, vice president, secre­tary. and treasurer. 
Art prof to lecture on pyramids 
Professor Roben Leader of the An Depanment will present an illustrated lecture ent= tied ··American Pyramids and Human Sacrifice'' tomorrow evening at 7 

p.m.  in  Howard  Hall.  The  
. program,  which is being  spoo­ 
:;cred  by the  How..rc  Hall  

ALademic-Culrural Commission 
i.s open to the public. 

r 
~---~--~-­

.----------------------------------~ 
The Observer Monday, Feb. 19; 1979 -page 5 
Solzhenitsyn predicts WWIII, -----------------­


I1 RIVER CITY II 
China to etnerge as victor 
LONDON (AP) • Exiled Soviet author Alexander long will th~ supply of countries last? 


I RECORDS I
Solzhenitsyn, in a broadcast yesterday, ~;>redicted The broadcast coincided with the fifth anniver­"madmen" in the Kremlin will spark a third world sary of the writer's expulsion from his homeland. I I war and that China will be the VIctor. It was the second part of a 40-minute interview I I 
Solzhenitsyn, who won the 1970 Nobel Prize for recorded Feb. 3 at his Vermont home. 
1 South Bend's Largest Record I
literature and was exiled from the Soviet Union in ''The communists cannot renounce aggression,'' 1974, spoke in an interview broadcast by the he said. ''It is in progress now: The devilish British Broadcasting Corp.'s Russian Service. It growth of armaments, guns which begin to fire and Tape Selection 
I I 
was recorded two weeks before China invaded themselves. These madmen will clearly succeed in Vietnam on Saturday. plunging both our country and the whole world into 
'The 60-year-old author said the world's undoing war. I I woiuld result from a combination of Soviet Lke conquerors in the past, Solzhenitsyn said, I I "aggression" and western malaise, a recurrent Soviet leaders ''imagine they are so strong that theme in his Interviews, speeches and writing since they can seize the whole known world." 

I $1.00 OFF I
he came to the West. He now lives in Vermont. ''In actual fact they will destroy the whole world, 
"We are clearly moving toward a world war, yet ruin our people and still suffer defeat,'' the author I coupon I Western statemen deceive themselves that we are said. "But how? Because, ranged on the opposite moving toward detente," Solzhenitsyn said. side will be a billion-strong China. Hence, the $1.00 off any album or tape with th.is coupon. Lmit 1. Now 1 ''They surrender several countries a year to victor will again be Communism, but in a different I rhru March 11. Not good on cut-outs, imports or .ocher sale communism, and yet they do nor tremble ... How form. I items. Coupon must be presented before purchase is rung I
I inro cash register. 1 
With Chinese ambassador eND-SMC che~.:k accepted for up to $20.00 over 1 
purchase amoum.

I 1 
eJ7 ,000 albums and rapes in stock now! 1
U. N. discusses Vietnam plight I e\X-'hy wait ro choose from a small seit"Ction?
1 River City Records probably has it in stock I UNITED NATIONS (AP) · The Council action couJd range draw its army "before it is too now. I 
U.N. Security Council president from censure to the use of an late." It said that "responsibilit}' met behind closed doors yester­international military force to for the consequences of continu­day with China's U.N. ambassa­stop the fighting. China's veto ing aggression ... will be borne by I RIVER CITY RECORDS I 
dor and spoke with Vietnam's power in the council makes any the present Chinese leadership. I 50970 U.S. 31 North, 3 miles north ofcampus. Open 10 co !0, I envoy by telephone in a search action unlikely, but a council The Soviet announcement 1 7 days a week. 277-4242. I for ways to end the fighting debate would give the Vietnam­seemed to indicate Moscow between their countries. ese a world forum in which to would not intervene, at least for 
Secretary-General Kurt denounce China. the present. "The heroic Viet­-----------------­
Waldheim, meanwhile, appealed India and the Soviet Union, namese people, which has be­for an end to the fighting, which China's two largest neighbors, come the victim of fresh aggres­
Any Undergrad
erupted Saturday when Chinese issued statements condemning sion, is capable of standing up for troops invaded Vietnam. Peking's invasion of Vietnam. itself this time again," it sard. 

is Eligible to be the 19 79-80 
The Security Council president Moscow vowed to "honor irs India, which fou~ht a brief Ambassador Abdalla Yaccoub obligation'' to Vietnam and India border war with China in 1962, Bishara of Kuwait, was expected said the incursion threatens "in­expressed "profound shock a~~ 

JUDICIAL COORDINATOR
to scheduJe formal consultations ternational peace and security ... distress at the outbreak of ho~uh­today with representatives of the In Washington, the White ties." An official statemenr said United Scares and the 14 other House called for the Chinese, Prime Minister Morarji Lksai council members. Such consuJta­who launched their invasion ''stressed the urgent need f,>r ll't· 
Applications available in the 
tions are rhe usual prelude to an Saturday, to withdraw. A White wirhdrawal of Chinese ~orc<·s open council meeting. House official said, ''Our immed­from Vietnam." Vietnam has not formally re­iate interests are not threatened, While the Soviet Union's other 

Student Government Office 
quested an emergency meeting although we are concerned abour Warsaw Pact allies put the •,tame of the council. Vietnamese U.N. the continuation and escalation of entirely on China, Rom....1ia 
2nd floor Lafortune 
Ambassador Ra Van Lau handed the conflict." called on both Vietnam and China letters to Waldheim and Bishara The Kremlin, which signed a t\> withdraw "all foreign troops to on Saturday urging them to take mutual aid pace with Hanoi 15 within national frontiers.'' It said 

Deadline Feb. 23 
"appropriate measures" to bring weeks ago after months of the issues that caused the conflict about the withdrawal of Chinese trouble along the Sino-Vietnam­were ''most complex.'' troops from Vietnam. ese border, told Peking to with· In London, two seruor mem· 
bers of Britain's ruJing Labor 


For further de~ils contact 
Party urged the ~overnment to ban sales of Harner "jump-jet" 


Jayne Rizzo (7961-6413)
fighter planes to China. Frank


Cavanaugh senior 
Allaun and Martin Flannery said 


Kristin Quann (1343-6413)
the Chinese invasion threatened world peace. 


contracts tnentngttts 
A Notre Dame senior is listed contact such as talking with him 

in critical condition at St. in a hallway, eating at the same Joseph's Hospital suffering from dining hall table or sitting in a 
____:=-=-----.::ra=:.=...=n-=--=iff Internatianal~-_.. a severe case of meningococic classroom with him would not meningitis. Andrew M. Sowder, constitute close personal con­a resident of fourth floor Cavan­tact." 
is hiring lligbl Attendants
augh, was hospitalized yesterday Students who were in close and has been in a coma since late contact with Sowder for a period yesterday afternoon. of two hours or more, however, I 
-accepting applications on
Sowder reported to the Notre are advised to report to the Dame infirmary Saturday after­infirmary today for an interview noon, upon returning from a ski to determine whether or not they 
Tuesday, February 20, 
trip to Swiss Valley, MI, with 28 should be given treatment to other students. He spent the prevent contraction. night in the infirmary wuh a high Infirmary personnel who tested 
from 3:30-6:30 pm at the Albert Pick Motor-Inn 
fever and was transferred to St. Sowder, as well as several stu­Joseph's Hospital yesterday. His dents who were in contact with 
213 W. Washington (downtown)
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Sowder, have already been given Sowder of Idalou, TX, arrived in oral medication to prevent their South Bend lase night. contraction of the disease. 
requirements:

Director of Information Ser­vices Richard Conklin explained 
e at least 19 112 yrs of age .Height 5'2"-6'2" 
that meningitis is a bacterial disease that causes swdling in 
e vision correctable to 20-50 e willing to relocate
ROCCOS 

the membrane enveloping the brain and spinal cord. 
meon'a haltatyllng 

-bi-lingual speakers also desired­
Conklin added that while the 
disease is highly contagious, 
at comfottableo ptlcea 
for more info. call:

"there is no cause for alarm 
except in cases where someone 
232-3947 at the Albert Pick

has had close and prolonged 
531 N. ffilchlgan 

personal contact with Sowder 
equal opportunity employer
within the last 48-72 hours." 
233-4957

According to Conklin, "Casual 






Editorials 
Deceitful misrepresentation 
Father Hesburgh's letter in which he rejects the Campus Life Council's (CLC) proposal to make parietals a hall offense is four months too late. A similar letter, indicating Hesburgh's understanding of the purpose of parietals should have been released immediately following the student rights forum. For four months students and the CLC have been under the impression that the Administration regarded parietals as ''q_uiet hours," and the Administration perpetuated this decettful misrepresentation. 
The reason the CLC went through the "proper channels" in making its proposal to reduce parietals to a hall offense was because they were led to believe parietals were "quiet hours." Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer made a statement to that effect at the students rights forum last Sept. 26. Roemer said, "The rationale behind parietals has nothing to do with sexuality. It is a quiet hour type of thing where at certain times, that hall is supposed to get quiet and other people are supposed to be out of the hall." 
When students questioned why they could not set their own "quiet hours," Roemer suggested students use the a.c to present any proposals which they might have for change. At their Oct. 9 meeting, the CLC ratified a proposal to redefme parietals as a hall offense. 
That proposal was presented to Father John Van Wolvlear, Vice-President for Student Affairs, who lwl been at the student rights forum, and refused to comment on the parietals issue, claiming that he was ignorant of its history. Van Wolvlear delayed resJ?Onding, presumably while he was researching the issue, until1ust before Thanksgiving break. At that time, Van Wolvlear reJected the proposal. 
The proposal was subsequently resubmitted to University provost, Dr. Timothy O'Meara, who also rejected the proposal, this time over Christmas break. Followin~ O'Meara's rejection ofthe proposal, Carroll Hall abolished panetals, hoping to elicit some sort of articulation of why parietals exist. Meanwhile the QC appealed O'Meara's decision to Hesbur~h. 
Hesburgh's rejection of this proposal ts based on an understanding of parietals that is fundamentally different from that stated by ~oemer at ~e s~d~nt ri~hts forum. . For Hesburgh the rauonale for par1etals 1s mextncably woven m the sexuality issue. This is radically different from Roemer's understanding. 
If the . difference between Hesburgh's and Roemer's understanding of the reason behind the parietals system is that great, why did not Hesburgh issue a statement at the time of the forum? 
Hesburgh always refers students to the ''proper channels'' when they are attempting to bring about change. In this case the ''proper channels' ' prolonged the misunderstanding of the University's position. How can Hesburgh expect students to believe in the effectiveness of the "proper channels" when the University perpetuates ambiguous positions? It is now obvious that Roemer's position on parietals as stated at the student rights forum is not the same as that of the University. Why did not Hesburgh make this clear at the time of Roemer's statements? 
By refraining from comment until now, Hesburgh has wasted the time ofthe CLC and cast doubt on the effectiveness of using 

Monday, Feb. 19, 1979 -page 6 

Fr. Hesburgh replies to CLC 
Editor's Note: The following letteris Father Hesburgh 's rejec­tion ofthe Campus life Council's proposal. The proposal would reduce parietals to a hall offense. Andy M&Kenna, Student Body President, will state his reaction 
to this letter on the next editorial page. 
Dear Andy: I am responding to your letter 
regarding  the  redeftnition  of  
parietafs•.  Through you, I know  
that  tlus  is  addressed  to  the  

Student Body that you serve as President, as I do, too. 
The present system ofparietals is very much a part of what this University stands for: standards that are higher than most univer­sities, but which can create an atmosphere conducive to educa­tion and growth, if they are observed. 
Some thirty pages of former rules, some of which in the present world could well be considered Mickey Mouse, have been reduced to the essentials, about a half dozen University­wide rules that express what is expected, as a bare minimum, of Notre Dame students: personal honesty, integrity, care for others, their well-being, their welfare, and their rights, self­respect a~d self-growth for one's self. 
One does not grow by eliminat­ing or ignoring reasonable stan­dards, but by observing them. I am willing to admit that most ' universities do not establish such standards --especially in the matter of parietals --or insist upon them. We do. 
Present parietals allow visita­tion more than half of every day. Presumably, there must be some time for sleeping, studying, and other activities during the other half which is only ten hours of non-visitation over the weekends. 
Parietals also insure a m~cum of privacy in men's and women's residence halls which have a quite different character and life of their own. 
A distinguished professor­friend of mine at one of our very best universities told me that one of his freshman woman students came to him in desperation during late October. The day after her arrival at this univer­sity, her roommate's boyfriend moved in. From then on she was reduced to sleeping in an adjacent study room. She had no prtvacy, no access to her clothes and other accessories, even though the other couple said, . "]ust walk in on us, watch if you wish, we don't care." 
The best my professor-friend could do was to get her assigned to another room when one was available. They had no parietals so ~hat was going on was not agamst any rule. 
I am not naive enough to ima~ine that there is no hanky­panky here. Ifpeople reallY. want to get into trouble, they will find a way of doing so, whatever the rules. However, it is not a permanent living condition here. Bad situations, when they come to light, are judiciable according to a single standard. 
Reducing parietals to the will of each individual hall would, in fact, give 22 different regulations rather than the one University­wide regulation now in effect. Over time, it would erode the present regulation to meaning­lessness --and then we would be like everyone else. Neither the Trustees, nor I, nor the Provost, nor the Student Affairs Vice President want this to happen. guess each one of us must m turn say so, and we do. 
I do not expect this to be a popular decision, but right deci­sions, those that uphold stan­dards that give a place and its people character, rarely are, expecially among those who want to reduce everything to mushy mediocrity, where everything goes and life is reduced to the least common denominator. 
It would be a lot easier just to say veto, Andy, but since you have asked for a rationale as well, I ungladly expose myself to all those who know better. Knowin~ this student body, I'll get credit for honesty, even though I know that cannot always be extended to agreement. After all, a university is a place where most people think otherwise. No one IS or should be bashful about voicing an opinion. However, the buck must stop somewhere. Those who have the responsi­bility for the ultimate decision and the common good must take the heat or get out of the kitchen, to paraphrase Harry Truman. 
May I say in closing that if we practiced in loco parentis in the accepted sense, we would still have the thirty pages of rules and no visitation whatever. However, I believe that the present system is generally healthy, wholesome, and good, Brian Hogan to the contrary notwithstanding. We would like to preserve that good, even improve it. Removing or emasculating parietals does not seem to be a move in that :lirection. 
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame, 
(Rev.) Theodore M Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. President 


The soft underbelly 
art buchwald 

WASHINGTON--There has been a great deal ofrecrimination over the change of governments in Iran. One of the biggest questions being asked is why no one in this town knew the shah was in trouble. Some of the credit for this must go to Ambassador Ardeshir Zahedi, and Washington's unquenchable appetite for ~ood caviar. 
Before it 1s published by the new regime at the Iranian Embassy, I wish to confess that my wife and I were on Ambassador Zahedi's special caviar list, 1 which meant that every Christmas Eve we would fmd a nice plump can of it on our doorstep when we went out to light the Christmas tree. The ftrst time there was no message with the can except for a card attached, which satd "Long live the Shah.'' 
"I wonder who it's from?" my wife asked. 
"It beats1 me," I said, salivating. "All it says on the can Dominican Republic,'' my wife said as she started making toast. 
is  . 'Golden  pearls  from  the  
Caspian Sea.'  
"Well,  that  rules  out  the  

"Wait a minute," I warned her. "This could be a bribe. People don't just leave caviar on your doorstep unless they want something in e~change.'' 
•'What could anyone want in chan £ f d li · 
:viar?~e or a can o e clOUS "My Redskin tickets," I said. 
· 

"But they're not gomg to get
them--not for all the caviar in Zambia. • • 
"_I di~' t kno~ Zambia had any ca~~ar, .s~e satd. 
That s JUSt my cod~ ~e for the c~~try wherd £!Unk tt came from. 
On Christmas Day we went to visit friends who worked in the State Department on the Middle East desk. "Have some caviar," the former ambassador said. 
"No, thanks," I said. "We're going over to Adm. Pinkerton's tonight for caviar and baked potato and we don't want to spoil our appetites.'' 
The day after Christmas our son, who plays with a boy whose 
father is in the CiA, said, ''Ifyou 
think we have caviar you should 
see the Dinkham's fridge. It's 
loaded with ftsh eggs." 
"That's too bad. I thought 
we'd share ours with them sincel 
ftgured by being government 
employees they probably never 
got to eat any."
"Mr. Dinkman says you're nothing ifyou don't have a caviar 
source at the CIA." 
Whatever else you want to say 
about Ambassador Zahedi he 
certainly was lavish with his 
country's edibles. Almost every­one I knew of importance in the capital was up to his hips in . sturgeon eggs. Zahedi had penetrated the soft underbellly of Washington, and as long as the stuff kept coming no one was really interested in how the shah 
was doing. 
I guess this should be a lesson 
toallofus. Thenexttimewefind 
a can of caviar on our doorsteps 
we're going to ask some tough 
questions about the regime's 
survival before we start chopping 
up eggs, onions and cutting up 
lemons. 



of either -institution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 

_The Observer_ 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray O'Bnen Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......~ .. Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor ...........Doug Christian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil CackJ_el Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's EditoF ...... FJien Buddy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 
reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
Monday, Feb. 19, 1979 -page 7



Features 
My Weekend 
· .Amid all the furor surrounding. the si.'Udent rights issue, many in the Notre 
With Myron Farber 
Dame community have cnticized Fath~ Hesburgh, claiming he has iBnored .tht: . .eroblem. Nothing could be rarther &om the truth. With the help of a $ecl'et Ruth Kolcun 
source, known here only as~ Ear~ we have found out that behin.d the scenes, Fr. Hesburgh ~ peen busy recruiting a well-known poliocal figUre, recentlye'Xile, to recoricile the preent $ituaclo.n. The following is a r.ranscript .· of a telephone conversation which took placelaar week: 
S: Teddy baby! Mohhatnmed here, H; Hi. Shah. How're the wi'tCS? 
.,.,.,,,,,,,.,.,,>·a.; :i'''' 
S: Great. How're ~ ~~? ..•.,.,· 
,H: Oh, very attracttve, but a.Jit:t.k res:Teddy, )~ wld me you·•. ·..• ·.''''· ••· •·• •' 
•• i'•• • 

~wdr~!:·:i~w·'·,,.,,., .. ,., , 
head of DULAC ,·, .,, ··i':•'t•.·<,·,.:,.,.•.•,•~''~~; 
S: DtJLAC? What's that? . '.' '. ·'.,•..',· •,,:>tlbdvwalr&l~ 
H: The Director's U~uate l.eRisJative Advisory Committee. 
S: 
Director's? You mean DictatOr's, don't you? 

H: Let's not argue about semantics. 

S: 
You know Teddy, 'I've always admired the way you run things. Tunes being what they are, there aren't many places left where I still feel at home. Your place reminds me of the good old days. Have you regilded the roof of your 


Pictured here with Ruth Kolcun, is Myron Farber a cont1·oversial reporter for the New York Times, one of the spe~s at this year's Midwest journalism Conference in St. Louis. [photo by Ruth Kolcun] 
Prayer Never 

She is a senior whom I had only gotten to know slighdy the previous three years; so when she made an appoint­ment, I had no idea what she wished to speak about. 
I was, I have to admit, startled when she got right to the point and said, "Teach me to pray." She went on to explain that she had tried to be concerned about prayer through the years, but wasn't really sure what it was all about, or how to go about it ... and felt that prayer was certainly one of the things she ought to give some attention to before graduating. 
We talked for a long time; but there were a few things we found most critical to understanding prayer. First of all, I suggested she get prepared for the shock of discoverin~ that prayer is probably just the oppostte of what she thought. It is not asking; it is answering. 
This ftrst problem with prayer is increasingly accentuated for me the longer I am associated with Notte Dame athletics. Just last Sunday after the UCLA basketball game, for exam,Ple, numerous people were saying things like, "Should have .prayed harder, Father" or "Well, your prayers didn't work today, did they?" 
When my prayers do "work," as, say, in the "miraculous" comeback at the Cotton Bowl, what. am I supposed to think? That the prayers of the Houston fans didn't work? The God I believe in doesn't cause fumbles or help with freethrows; and His mother wasn't specially assigned to assist Joe Montana's fourth-quarter heroics. God doesn't win games; men and women do this. God's desire is to win people. 
The difficulty I'm speaking of centers around the so-called prayer of petition.Je.sus seems to ~n~ourage our asking for t~ngs. l:fe expltctdy says, "ask, and it wtll be gtven you; search, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened to you.'' Well, we've done all that loads of times and it hasn't worked. What is this, a cruel game God plays with us? We've engaged in prayer time and time again; but, more often than not, we haven't received any answer--to our asking, searching, knockin~. 
Perhaps we need to perstst more: one more novena, one more candle lighted at the grotto, one more rosary, the nine 
His pipe is every bit a part of the man as his salt and pepper beard. Myron Farber is a short man in height only, not in stature. He stands tall in the eyes of his contemporaries because of his con­crete convictions. 
Thirteen years ~· the New-York Tunes ass~ him to investigate reports of thirteen mysterious deaths at a major New Jersey hospital. Farber's 
seriesof reports caused die reopening of the case and the eventual indictment of the Riverdell Hospital's chief surgeon, Dr. ) asca.l.evich. 
Years later, Farber's articles caused the second longest murder trial in U.S. history. His re(>Orting also turned the case into a constitutional battle between the ftrst amendment (the right to free speech and press) versus the sixth amendment (the right to a fair trial). 
Mike, as Farber prefers to be called by his friends, went to jail for fifty days instead of turning over his notes at the murder trial. 
"If you believe in something strong enough, you should not let anyone or anything change your mind or stand in your way," he srud. 
''Press sources have the right to remain confidential, much like the confidentiality between a patient and his doctor, or between a penitent and his confessor." His reasons for withholding his notes was to protect the identity of trusted sources. 
Clad in jeans and a black T-shirt with white letters which said 'I defend the ftrst amendment,' Mike practices what · he preaches. Puffing on his pipe, he emphatically stated, ''I did not witness the crime and my notes do not establish the guilt or innocence of Dr. Jascalevich.'' 
Mike walked over to the coffee table, picked Ul;> a copy of The New York Times and admitted that he barely had enough time to read the paper lately. The Times gave him an extended leave to give lectures around the country and to write a book. 
First Fridays one more time! Jesus seems to agree--in the parable about the widow who doesn't _give up appealing to the judge until he finally gives in. This seems a straightforward admonition to pers!=vere in prayer; we are called to be persistent when we pray. We are reminded of Robert Louis Stevenson's remark: ''lhe saints are the sinners who kept trying." 
This seems to put the major emphasis on our efforts to get through to God. He's like the judge; we have to wear Him down with a dogged persistence (something like a salesman making his pitch to a tough-to-sell client.). We sense there's somethin~ wrong in this, however. We fmd 1t repugnant to employ such a close comparison between God and the evil judge in the gospel story. We don't fed at all attracted to a God for whom we have to fulftll predetermined demands before He will respond. That contradicts the God Jesus reveals. 
!he fact is this, interpretation twists thmgs completely. The idea is not our trying to get through to God, but His attempti~g ~o get thr~mgh to us. We may be mcltned to think that prayer is our "working on God," but it's just the opposite. It works on us; opens us to the persuing God. 
Prayer is our answer, not God's. He pursues us; constantly would afford us an experience ofHis loving presence; He speaks a word of invitation ("Come, be 
In rebuttal to the claims that he refused to give his notes to the trial judge because he is writing a book, Mike responded, "I accepted a $75,000 ad.­vance on my book about the case back in 1976. That was lon~ before my notes became a controversial issue." 
"I have the greatest respect for the Times. I never would do anything that would discredit them,'' Mike said. The judge initially fined the Times $100,000 plus $5,000 a day until the notes were confiscated. According to published accounts, the fines totalled $285,000 and the legal costs snowballed to over $200,000. 
'I love to write. In fact, if I had to pick between sex or journalism, I would select ... '' Mike paused a moment before answering in order to fill his empty glass with Beaujolais ... ''journalism,'' he concluded. 
Since he has become a new figure, Mike has been invited to speak at numerous conferences. He commented, "I am a writer, not a speaker. Before lectures, I prepare notes and end up not following them. I improvise adding new ideas. However, my innermost ideas and convictions always seem to emerge.'' 
Mike received a B.A. at the University of Maryland in 1959. He did graduate work in American history at Northwest­!=rn. Besides being a Times reporter, he 1s the father of two children. 
His family shares his convtctions. He recalls once as he was /oing to jail, reporters approached an 1V cameras focused on Farber's 6-year-old daughter. When asked how she felt about her daddy going to jail, she replied, "We have to do what we feel is right.'' Farber smiled and said "She heard it at home." 
All ofus should have the convictions to follow our beliefs and do what we feel is right. Convictions are the fuel for a meanin~ life. Myron Farber is a man of convtction and his admirable stand is an inspiration to other kindred spirits. 
my people"; "Behold, I stand at the door and knock"; "Follow Me"), to which we reply when we authenocally pray. Thus prayer is an act of faith; it is faith articulated, and must always be reducible to "I believe in you." So we see that we need to persist, not because God is hard to reach, but because we are. We need to persist in our efforts to listen, to open and to reply to His call. The Father whom Jesus reveals is one who waits for us to become receptive to His loving, saving, graceful presence. Consequently, that's the way prayer is "answered." Prayer is already an answer (our surrender); but once we do this, God responds, too. We've given Him a chance to, by making ourselves accessible. And what does He give us? Himself! Thus prayer is'our answer, answered! 
That's exactly what Jesus says expli­citly at the end of the passage about "ask, search, knock." He says, "If you, with all your sins, know how to give your children good things, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him.'' Hence 1t is His own Spirit He gives when we answer God's mvitation by our prayer. We receive the same thing in every authentic prayer--God Himself. What more can you ask for? 
Well, what about asking for things? And can it reallr, be prarer when we "pray for others '? We' I tackle these questions next time. 

---~----­

The Observer Monday, Feb. 19, 1979 -page 8 
On Tehran radio 

Iranian regime denounces Israel 
ATTENTION ENGINEERS  
'VALUES' 80' /SHERE  
It is proposed that a Conference on Human Values and Professional Re~ponsibility in engin­eenng be held in apnl 1980. Your support is needed now. Problem statement and definition presented by REV· OliVER F WILLIAMS, C·S·C· All engineering students and faculty are invited Tuesday, Feb. 20, 7:30PM Room 303, Engr. Building sponsored by ASME  

1EHRAN, Iran (AP) · Iran's new Islamic government an­nounced yesterday it had expell­ed Israeli officials after eliminat­ing all relations with the Jewish state. 
The announcement by Tehran Radio came as Paletine Libera­tion Organization chief Y asser Arafat met with Iranian leaders. 
He conferred with Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the Moslem leader of Iran's anti-shah forces, and said the Iranian revolution had turned the strategic balance in the Middle East "upside down." 
Tehran Radio, reponing on a statement from the foreign Mini­Stry, said support for the Palestin ian people was the main principle of the provisional government's foreign policy. Israel once re­ceived most of its oil from Iran. 
The broadcast said 22 Israeli trade and immi~ration officials and representattves of El AI Airline along with other Israeli technicians were expelled from Iran yesterday. All Iranian government employees in Israel were ordered to return home, the station said. 
Arafat won assurances from Khomeini that Iran will ''turn to the issue of victory over Israel" after the nation consolidates its stength, Tehran Radio reponed. 
The Moslem holy man's secret Islamic .court continued r~unding up offictals of the oia regune and Khomeini aides predicted more executions would take place. 
Tehran Radio said Khomeini's forces were searching for depos­ed Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar, whose 38-day-old gov­ernment was swept asid by Khomeini's forces on Feb. 11. The station denied its previous report that he had been arrested and was awaiting trial. 
Four top generals were executed by a firing squad last week. About 400 figures of the old government are under arrest, sources report. 
'Iran will tum 
. to the issue of victory over Jsrael.' 

Persian press reports said some death sentences had been handed out but that executions 
had been postponed U?~il after  
the end of Arafat' s  vtstt.  No  
details were given.  

Arafat' s Palestine Liberation Organization played a major role in training Ir~nian ~errillas who fought the unpenal troops of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who was forced to leave the country last month. The govern­ment he appointed to rule in his absence fell Feb. 11. 
Meanwhile, 794 Americans landed in Frankfurt, West Gee­many, late Sunday in the second 
. day of the four-day evacuation of about 5,000 U.S. citizens from Tehran. Many said they were critical of the mass airlift, but refused to comment on their treatment for fear of endangering the safety of Americans still in Iran. _ The mystery over the fate of deposed Prime Minister Shah-
pour Bakhtiar deepened as state radio denied its own previous report that he had been arrested. The broadcast said efforts were under way to ftnd Bakhtiar, who served as prin_le minister for 38 
. days before betng swept astde by Khomeini. Tehran Radio reponed yestL day that officials of the state-run National Iranian Oil Co. an­nounced that striking employees had returned to work in the Ahwaz, Masjed Soley~an, Gach Saran and Abadan oil fields in · southwestern Iran. 


chtmes now_ 3cc€ptlnq manuscRipts ~OR puBlicatiOn ShORt €SSays.pO€tRy.plays {JCtton-non ~JctJon.photoqRaPhY -aRt WORk 0~ all klnbs deadline March 14 all woQk susmltt€0 w1ll B€ Q€tUQ0€0 c/o max W€stl€Q Qoom 303 ma0€1€\'a smc  

Non-Academic Employment Opportunities A seminar for Graduate Students in the· Humanities and Related Fields Session One: lecture-Tuesday, February 20, 1979 3:00-5:00 p.m. library lounge James J. Krollk, Director, Office of Non-Academic Counseling and Placement for Graduate Stu­dents, Unlv. of Michigan. Session Two: workshop, Tuesday February 20, 1979 7:30-8:30 p.m. wilson commons Charlotte R. Rlos, Graduate Student, Dept. of 'English, Unlv. of Notre Dame. Sponsors: Office of Advanced Studies; Graduate Student Union (A representative of the Placement Bureau will attend both sessions.)  





Applications for Student Union Director and Comptroller 
Are now available in the S. U. offices Applications due Feb. 20 
Interviews will be Feb. 27 
For information, call 7757 
• • . Survey 

[continued from page 1) 
ton. 
In regards to a letter from the Farley Hall Council printed in the Feb. 12 issue of the Observer that stated, "We...do not believe th~lt parietals is the central issue,'' 

Records---• 
...•c c  New Low Regular Prices  
cs- All s7.98 LP's  
.....  only s4.99  
All 18.98 LP's  
only ss.99  

Flanner Records 603 Flanner Phone: 4256 

Hours: Mon-Thurs 4: 00·5: 6:30-8:00 Sun. 6:30-8:00 
Coonan responded that, ''Farley had a good point in their letter. The problem lies in the fact that ,there is not enough student input into administration decision­making. They articulated our short-range goals into a long­range campaign for student input. We couldn't agree more wtth them; it's been our main point all along." 
In response to Carroll Hall's position that more direct student mput to the administration was . necessary, McKenna replied that input is now ' 'as direct as you can get." 
When asked if an organized protest of some son would be an effective means of affectin~ the administrative positwn, McKenna replied negatively and cited the "ftfteen-mmute rule" as his I?rincipal reason. Te ftfteen-mmute rule, according to McKenna, stems form an inci­dent in 1969 when Father Hesburgh instructed a group of 
[continued on page 9) 




The Observer Monday, Feb. 19, 1979-page 9 

SU sponsors week-long record sale 
Today marks the beginning of the Srudent Union's "Record Sale of the Century. " Orders will be taken this wttk, and distribu­tion will be the week of March 5. 
The ordering procedure will be as follows. Orders will be placed in room 20 on the second floor of l..aForrune. Signs will be posted to direct srudents to the correct room. Srudents should use the stairs on the South side of l..aForrune. 
Posters will be posted listing the albums of the most porular artists. These provide al the information a student needs to fill out the order. The order form requires the student's ID num­ber, name, address, and phone number. To place the order, the student should list the albums catalogue number, artist, title, and price. Prices range from $4.55 for a $7.98 list LP to $9.25 for a $15.98list. · 
For those albums not listed on the posters, catalogues are avail­able. Instructions are provided explaining how to use the cata­logues, and someoe familiar with them will be available to assist anyone having problems finding their selection. 
Cut-outs will also be available. A cut-out is an album no longer in production, and therefore offered at a greatly reduced price. 
Orders can be placed between 12-5 p.m. Payment must be made by check or money order. No refunds will be made except in the case of a cut-out that is not in stock. Defective albums will be replaced with the same album. 
• • . China 
[conlin~~edfrom page I] 
Chinese would strike deeply into Vietnam. 
The United States called for the Chinese to withdraw their forces immediately and said Viet­namese troops should leave Cambodia. In an official explanation to the United Nations, China maintained it launched the attack "to defend the country's borders." It said the Vietnamese had ignored "China's repeated warnings" and had "continually sent armed forces to encroach on Chinese territory.'' 
• Survey 
(conlin~~edfrom page 8) 
several hundred srudents pro­testing the presence of Dow Olenucal and OA recruiters on campus to leave within fifteen minutes. Dow Chemical was the prilll:ipal manufacrurer of napalm bein~; used in the Viet Nam war at that time. All but seven left, and those seven stuueuts were later expelled. 
"Father Hesburgh says sru­dcnts can't disrupt the normal operations of the University, and as President, he has the right to kc.-ep order," stated McKenna. 
ThC" survey was constructed by the Carroll Hall Council and lfP(::Chairman Chu1 lr D~IGrande 
:1 conjunction with Dr. Pat :\lcCabe, Counsehng Center director. 
Results ofCarro/1-HPC Panetals Survey 
64% ofon-campus srudents responded. 
1) Are you in favor of the parietals visitation program as it now stands? 
YES NO MEN 11% 87% WOMEN 20%' 80% TOTAL 13% 85% 
2) Are you in favor of quiet hours instead of parietals? 
YES· NO 

MEN 69% 26% WOMEN 61% 38% TOTAL 67% 29% 
3) Are you in favor of reducing parietals to a hall offense? 
_../ 
YES NO MEN 87% 8% WOMEN 91% 7% TOTAL 88% 8% 
4) Are you in favor of each hall determining its own parietal program? 
YES NO MEN 68% 27% WOMEN 57% 40% TOTAL 65% ·-30% 
5) Are you in favor of 24-hour visitation privileges during weekends? 
YES NO MEN '6% 15% WOMEN 70% 27% TOTAL 74% 18% 
6) Are you in favor of 24-hour visitation privileges during weekends and during the week? 
YES NO MEN 49% 47% WQMEZll~ 34-% 67% TOTAL 44% 52% 
• • . Hesburgh 
(continued from page 1) 
O.C as a channel, to change parietals to a hall offense. 
The O.C, at a meeting on Oct. 9, discussed and passed a proposal to redefine parietals as a hall offense in light of the rationale presented by Roem~r. Under the CLC proposal, the rector would have the option to refer a· parietals violation to the hall judicial board. According to present University procedure, the rector may either use his own discretion in dealin~ with a violation, or refer the violator to the Dean of Srudents for disctplinary action. 
The proposal was presented to Fr. john Van Wolvlear, vice president for Srudent Affairs, who issue a statement rejecting the proposal in late November. Van Wolvlear ~[ated that "the present system seems to be workin~ efficiently and j'usdy,'' stressed that any change "might lessen the unportance of parietals." 
The CLC then appealed to University Provost Timothy O'Meara, seeking a more adequate response to their proposal. O'Meara rejected the proposal over Christmas break, commenting, ''I think it is in the best interest of the University that the importance of parietals not be diminished.'' 
As final recourse, the CLC decided to appeal the proposal to Hesburgh. According to McKenna, the CLC ''assumed Hesburgh's views would be consistent with those of Van Wolvlear and O'Meara, but wnated an elaboration of the Administration's rationale behind parietals.'' 
McKenna commented that he was satisfied with Hesburgh's res~;>onse to the CLC's appeal. "That's the end of the road for the partetals proposal," he stated, adding, "I have no plan for another proposal on parietals, and I don't think anyone else on the CLC does either." 
"Essentially, people are dissatisfied .with parietals," McKenna continued. ''This is a reflection of their frustration wtth the roles of srudents at Notre Dame. That's the bigger problem, and that's the problem sruJent governmew is going to ::lt-al with 
A letter from McKenna :.udinin~ srude .:r .;ovcrmnent" s Sflecific plans for dealing with JUs pruLlt-rn wil! app<·.; .rf rj·,,· bJt:onal r>ag~· of The Observ<7" later in the week 
******************************** 

******************************** 


HELP WANTED! 
River City Records has 2 or 3 positions available for Notre Dame/St.Mary's May graduates interested in the retail 
record business , potentially at the management level. Selected applicants will work part time this spring semester in preparation for full time employment after graduation. 
River City Records is South Bend's largest retail record company and needs more qualified staff .personnel to match recent growth 
In a December consumer survey, WNDU-TV ranked River City Records first in a field of five area record retailers. 
River City Records is owned by a recent Notre Dame graduate and currently employs four ND/SMC graduates (full time) and five ND/SMC students (part time). 
Good oppurtunities for advancement are available for qualified staff./ Responsibility in our related related River City Review and Concert Div~ions 
is possible. If you are interested in a challenging job opportunity, please contact. · P~ter Kernan River City Recor.ds Inc. 277-424) (7:00pm to· 9:00pm) 



The Observer Monday, Feb. 19, 1979 -page 10 
ACIOSS D 0 W N 1 Nll'twork 
2. Kawmint>ral 
3. Attaek tvlth 1 f:liC'hlt 
vitur l! wda •· Wooden 1tr1p 4. Man-ealmtr 
8. Bad: talk 
f111h 12.. Notable limP 
ft. F•n" n•edlt>­
13. l••:~~h madf' 
work 
from h•ft.ovl!rll 
6. Shadt" lrt't" 1-1. ThrHtnmt' 
7. Yl&nkt>t> ll"rn._ 
16. Cot 
tory::! wrio~ 18. Dull pam 
H. Shurpt•n ta 
17. Smallatrt>am If irE"Iand 
9. 11.-y 
20. 1-lt>ad· <IRng 
111 W1ndow lo·dj{.. :!2. l offt't'Uflt'a 
It Shot" 1•11rt !~ Wuhda)' 1Ud 
19 \\'rlllfll{ fluul 
:!!l. ~,l..atmg llllt' 
:!I. Solf'mn affir. :!6. Small wagon 
mal IIIII :!7 H .. alth ~pot 
:!:! Sko•tt•h 30 \'t~\t'nd 
:!:t Wl'ahhy 
31. K·l<i~ part :!~ Suml'lh111~ f,,r 3:!. Uratu1ty 'l.'l. Whut ]Jt't!<OII~ :u. ('r)ll(pam 
Jf>. WmdtiW'It'\' 11on 
36. WE"Biht'rcncl. 3':'. S1mulat.:od 
Jlt -of, rur 
H. Trt't'trunk ~:!. W1ngt'd ,.;:1, Het'du~:om 
mand ~f.. ('t'reallfTam .JH Warblt> .JY. Enh·rtam 
]8\'ll\hly ,'1(1. Exclamation ord'"ifrU"t 
iii Book pii.M :l:! Terror fl-1. Pedal dllfll 


c
:!6. St'parat'" 1n. lo equal d!VI· siona· 2wds. 
R
27. Eatabhah (a clannl. 2 wd11. 

Carter outraged at murder 
211. Yt'&r-1 (for) 
0
29. Emulated :u. Sound ofmu~o-

WASHINGTON [AP] -THe
t'ry 
3~. Boon ,·om­
s 

body ofslain Ambassador Adolph 
pan1on 
:46. Hr1nk 

Dubs was returned to the United 
37 t:ntrann hall 
s 

States yesterday and met by
39 Charil':l-Lllmb'~ ]Wil 

President Carter, who expressed
w
ullin .. 

.ttl Spa.o;m ofdl~· "sadness and outrage" at Dubs' 
trt•H:i 
0 

killing in Mghanistan last week. 
11 c:r..ek lt>lll't 
H. Huzzllll{ ltl· ....,·t 

"We condemn those who
R
~ti In th.. p11~1 

s 
would participate in such a despicable act of violence," Carter· said. He said he was 
D 

outraged "at the senseless ter-
Kralik 
to direct 
grad seminar 
A seminar for graduate stu­dents in the Humanities and related fields will be held tomor­row in the library lounge from 3-5 
p.m. James J. Krolik, director of the cttfice of Non-Academic Counseling and Placement for

Friday's 

Graduate Students at the Univer­sity of Michigan will conduct the seminar. 
The second workshop from 7:30-8:30 p.m. in Wilson

answers 

Commons the same night will be given by Charlotte R. Rios, graduate student, department of English at Notre Dame. 
rorism of those who pay inade­quate value to human life." 
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, also at the ceremony, said, "We will fight terrorism with all our resolve and re­sources.'' 
Dubs, 58, was shot to death last Wednesday in a gun battle between police and four terrorists who had kidnapped him in Kabul. He was the fifth U.S. ambassador killed in the line of duty in just over a decade. 
His body was returned to Andrews Air Force Base near Washington on. an Air Force jet dispatched by the president. The flag-draped coffin was greeted by a 19-gun salute, and arnilitary band played "Ruffles and Flour­ishes." 
Vance presented the Secre­tary's Award, the State Depart­ment's highes honor, to Dubs' widow in the slain ambassador's name. Mary Ann Dubs, who held the president's arm during the ceremony, stepped to the micro­phone to thank Vance, but could only say "Mr. Secretary ... ," before breaking down in tears. She added almost inaudibly, using her husband's nickname, "on Spike's behalf, thank you." 
Dubs will be :buried tomorrow in Arlington Naitonal Cemetery. 
Earlier, }1rs. Dubs had made public a letter she sent to the Mghan president saying that 


Michael Molinelli 
beyond her personal grief over her husband's death, "there is I the larger sense in which his death 1s a tragedy -that he should have died in circum­stances so alien to the idea<; he sought to project in his work." 
Mter Dubs was killed last week, American officials com­plained bitterly that Soviet ad­visers at the scene did nothing to delay the police attact or urge further negotiations despitepleas from American Embassy officers. A strong protest also was filed with the Mghanistan govern­ment. 
Carter was described as "very angry'' over the incident, and Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin was summoned te the State Department for a formal protest of what the department called Soviet inaction ''impos­sible to justify.'' 
The Soviet news agency, Tass, reported Saturday that the Soviet Embassy in Washington had rejected the U.S. view, saying the Soviet advisers "had nothing to do with the decision of the Mghan authorities.'' 
The Soviets have developed close ties with Afghanistan since a coup installed Presideilt Nur Mohammed T araki there last April. 
Fr. Williams 
to discuss Conference 
All engineering srudents and faculty are invited to attend a talk by Fr. Oliver F. Williams in support for a proposed Confer­ence on Human Values and Professional Responsiblity in engineering to be held in April 1980. 
· Williamswill present the prob­lem statement and definition of the conference. The talk will be held tomorrow evening at 7: 30 in room 303 of the Engineering Building. 
Dr. Bender 
will serve on commit!ee 
Dr. Harvey A. Bender, profes­sor of biology at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed to a three-year term on the Committee on Science and So­ciety of Sigma Xi, the scientific ~esearch scx:iety of North Amer­tca. 
The committee's purpose is to "recommend and implement pol­icies and procedures to imporve the pubhc understanding of science anc •he understanding by scientist Jl ~he social context for their scientific and technolo~ical activities.'' 


( ­
N.D. STUDENT UNION ;Ptesents 

and special 
guest stat EXILE 
Thursd.ay -Feb 22 8pm Notte Dame ACC All Seats Resetved 
sa.oo & S7.00 
Tickets on sale at RCC Box Office 
SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 


BUT HESBUR6H PUSHED 
michnel&co. 
Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
open late tues.-thuts. 8pm North 1h mile east of notte dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 South 2041 E.lteland at ltonwood 
master charge visa 291-100~ 

The Observer -Sports Monday, Feb. 19, 1979 -page 11 
WCHA ITANDtNOS 
'W 1.' T TP North Dakota -20 8 0 .40 
NOTRE DAME 11 10 'f 815 
• • • leers

Minnesota 17 10 1 35 Minn.·Duluth 15 10· 3 33 sconsln 15 •11 2 32 
[continuedfrom page 12]
Mldltgan Tech 13 12 3 2$ 
Denver f1 15 2 24 
that to beat him, they'd have to
Colorado 10 16 2 22 
Michigan State • 9 ,9 Q. 18 
beat him low. Mich n 6 12 
.At 14:28 of the middle stanza, junior center Michalek opened up an Irish scoring spree that saw the Irish dent the Minnesota net
Duke stuns 
three times in two minutes and 18 seconds. Michalek's 14th goal of louisville the campaign, assisted by Kevin Humphreys and Jeff Logan, came with Gopher wing Tun
on national 
Harrer in the sm bin for cross­checking.television After a few minutes, however, it was Janaszak that wished he
CHARLOTIE, N.C. {AP)­
was seE' time. Greg Meredith. 
Gene Banks scored 23 points and scored s at 16:03 and 16:46,Mike Gm.inski added 22 as Duke1 assiste on both by Ted Weltzin ranked ftfth nationally, rolle<l and Steve Schneider, to put the over ninth-ranked Louisville, Irish on top for good and close the 88-72, in a nationally televised scoring.
college basketball game Sunday. 
The scoreless third period, a Louisville, which suffered irs rarity in WCHA play, may looksecond loss in as many days, was boring in the line score. But the stymied from the beginning of 3,964 partisans at the ACC had the game by Duke's zone de­no reason to complain. Exceptfense. The Cardinals were down perhaps for the goal judge, the at halftime by 19 points. 
period was typical of what was The Blue Devils, who improved perhaps the most exciting, hard­their record to 19-~ with the fought Irish contest of the season victory, opened u.P a 27-point at home. 
lead at one point m the second And the action didn't subside 
half. Duke never was ahead by when Saturday rolled around. A less than 14 in the game's closing sell-out throng of 4,287 including minutes. 
the parents of the Notre DameLouisville forward Larry players, witnessed 1~ goals and 
Williams was high man for the 19 penalties.
Cardinals with 16 points. The ,:,enior Kevin Nagurski and loss pur Louisville's season re­Meredith each tallied two ~oals 
cord at 22-6. 
for the Irish. In fact, Nagursfi 
Classifieds 

• 
Route driver to work evenings 7:30;·
ottces 
10:00. Must have car. 234-6519 alter 6 
p.m. APPLICATIONS FOR STUDENT UNION 
Cocktail Waltra1111 for new discotheque·DIRECTOR AND COMPTROLLER ARE 
parttime or fulltime·-apply in personNOW AVAILABLE IN THE S.U. OFF only-Monday Feb. 19th-6 to 8 p.m.­
ICES, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
"The Back Room" 1286 South Eleventh··APPLICATIONS MUST BE RETURNED U.S. 31 North-Niles, Mich.
BY FEBRUARY 20. INTERVIEWS WILL 
BE HELD ON FEBRUARY 'll. IF YOU 
Need ride to Cleveland. Feb. 23rdHAVE QUESTIONS, OR WOULD LIKE weekend will share expenses. Call JohnA COPY OF THE RULES FOR THE 
SELECTION PROCESS• PLEASE CALL 8206. 
TT57. 
OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia,MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Etc. All fields, $500 • $1,200 monthly.
Student loans $2D-$150, one percent 
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. FreeInterest, due In 30. days. Lafortune 
info.·Write: IJC, Box 4490-14, Berkeley,
basement, 11:30-12:30 M·F CA 94704 
A representative of the JESUIT VOLUN· Need ride to Uof Mich. on March 2 andTEER CORPS. will meet with students ride back after the game of the 4th. Iftoday from 1 to 4:30 In the Volunteer you can help, call Mike, 3889.
Services Office (LaFortune) and 7 to 10 
pm Memorial Library Concourse. 
Wanted: 2 GA LaSalle tickets. Call Marlbeth 3845. 
Wanted: 2GA LaSalle tickets for parents threatening to cut off tuition and move! Padded seats together please. Call Jerry 
Lost&Found 
Lost: one crutch outside of the Library 
at 8719.
about a week and a half ago. If you've seen this crutch alive, call Mike at 1678. 
Want: One LaSalle ticket. Call Paul at 8505
LOST: One college class ring-St. John Fisher College. Call 272·9841. 
Need 2 LaSalle GA tlx. Nick 1623 Llllt: Backpack taken by accident 
Help! Karen urgently needs 2 GA(hopefully) from East Racks at South LaSalle tickets. Call 6725.
Dining hall Wednesday. Dark blue/camp trails/contents extremely valuable. 
Need 4 GA LaSalle tickets. Call JohnPlane call 277·1621. REWARD! II 
1031. 
For SaleFor Rent, 
Stereo: Must sell, baby on way. Sansui 5-Bedroom. 2-baths available lor new 9090 receiver, 125 watts channel, 2pair of school year $300 mo. Will rent June 1 speakers, Teac 250 recorder, dual turn· thru summer lor $150 mo. 232·9498, table. Pickering XV15 Cartridge. Call 291-4528. evenings. 6-9:30, 232·1711 
Need realty big sound lor your next 77 MGB green, 7000 miles, full factoryparty? Two Peavy loudspeakers with warranty, perfect condition. $4850. 300w mixer/amp. ·Adapts to any system 289-1482. for great sound magnillcatlon. Call Bob: 
3634. 8·Track tapes for sale. Most popular artists. Only $2.00. Call Brad at 6931. 
For Sale: Eplphone steel string acoustic
Wanted 
guitar with case. Only 5 months 
old-S150. Call Bob 1803. 2 g1rls need ride to Mardi Gras (New 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun.
Orleans). can leave anytime after Wed., 
9-7 Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan
Feb. 21. Will share everything. Call SMC 4394, 4680 
Road, Niles. 683-2888. 
opened the scoring only 2:26 into the game with the Irish trying to kill Schneider's slashing penalty. 
"It was really nice to see Kevm play the way he did," lauded Snuth ofNagurski' s perormance. ''It was very fitting for his last home series." 
Notre Dame freshman Jeff Perry scored five minutes later, only to have ~toff and B~o~en tie the score Wlth 8:32 remammg in the first period. Dave Poulin's goal at 13:5~ gave the Irish a 3-2 advantage, which they held until the first intermission. 
Stragglers in the Blue Line Club may have missed a game's worth of scor~ at the outset of the second penod. Five goals 
were  scored  in  the  first  four  
minutes and two seconds.  
Minnesota's  Bill  Baker  and  

Harrer scored at 0:51 and 0:~9 respectively giving the Goehers a 4-3 lead, which they held ~or and entire 10 seconds. Michalek knotted the score at 1:09, slipping the puck behind goalie Jim Jetland, who~e relief of the ailing Janas~ak m ~e .second period wasn t too relievmg for the Gophers. 
Meredith's ftrst goal of the Saturday affair was a power-play converston at 3:47, while ] ohn Friedmann's score 15 seconds later gave the Irish a 6-4 lead. 
Nagurski' s second ~oal came at 16:40 of the penod, while Broten retaliated at 17: 58 to close 
Personals 
Orest is gone but Wildman is ready to take his place. Wildly for UMOC. 
O'Cieary, If they treat you bad, you are welcome to come home. 
Attention Seniors: 
The Senior Arts festival is soliciting photographs for exhibition during Senior Art Week. Submit work to Bernadette Young, 317 Badin, or Kevin Pritchett, 124 Keenan 
Happy Birthday D.C. from 3850 Tunlaw 
Know someone whom even John W. Gacey would turn down? Ugly Man (or woman). 
Need some good company on the way to Ft. Lauderdale for break? Three girls need a ride. Will share driving and expenses. Call 41-4165 or 41-4382. 
LML-My lover My friend Myw-----­11ove you•. 
----'­
,_; H3PPY 1st year JBC3 
Anyone driving to New Orleans for Mardi 
Gras or break?  I could help drive.  - 
-.·  ASister  
, Phone campus 8010  

To the man In Crowley: 
Stood up on Valentine's Day. I'm heartbroken. No wonder you don't hav any dates. 
____________,_­
Tn: The man with the dirty bedpan at the 
N.H. Thanks for the carnation! Jean 
Rich, · 
Here Is another personal to add to your collection! Thanks for agreat Valentine's Day! 
Nancy 
Katie Forget Tim and Peoria. Elope with me instead. Kevin 
Jim. Thank you very much for the !lowers. Stephanie 
P.S. Who are you? 
the period with the Irish on top, 7-5. 
Broten's hat trick just ~~ seconds into the final period lifted the Gophers to within one, but Meredith's power-play tally at ~:24 cushioned the ND lead and served as the eventual game-wmner. 
In fact, Meredith scored the game-winning goal each night, giving him SlX such occurences this season. The junior from Toronto, now tied for second in the WCH.A for goals with 26, has at least scored or assisted in each of Notre Dame's last nine league 
. games. Janaszak, who returned to action in the third period, was pulled by Brooks with two 
minutes remaining. Steve Ulseth managed to get one goal back for Minnesota with 20 seconds remaining, but Laurion and the Irish hdd on to claim the victory. 
The Irish had won it all. 
• • . ND rolls 

[continued from page 12] 
6-7 junior has led the Irish in scormg this season ... The Irish starters showed no aftereffects after being ''hung in effigy'' in uniform from the trees in front of the main campus .... Oklahoma 
Citf will provide the opposition when the Irish return to action Wednesday nite at the ACC. The 
Chiefs boast the nation's 11'1 scorer in 6-4 guard Ernie Hill, averaging 26.9 points per game. 


All class1f1ed ads must be rece1ved by 5 00 p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad Is run The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Fnday. 10:00 a.m to 5,00 p.m. All cla>silieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mall 

Bary's Drycleanlng and Laundry Service now open. Call anytime for an appoint· Ah so Diane Wlce, 
men!. We were gonna get you a negilae but sophisticated brushes are cheaper n TomS. 
Ehhhhhl Happy 211 Thanks for everything. Sorry I burnt Love, Ann & Jamie the brownies, but I hope the cookies 
made up for it. Anxiously Awaiting, Rose I've been waiting much longer than you have. How can I remedy your sleepless Patty and Shane night? 
No sleeping!! Your Surreptitious Spectator Betty 
Steve and Tony-DAVE BREHLIII Thanks for the flowers, your time, and DAVE BREHLIII all the help. THE TRULY UGLIEST MAN IN THE -Yourteam WORLD" TO SAY NOTHING OF ON 
CAMPUS. HE IS THE EPITOME OF A Oh ••••!!! I don't have another Draw 
TRUE UMOC. SAVE YOUR PENNIESII Two! Now I don't have Uno anymore! THE DAY OF RECKONING COMETH Yellow to you TO. SOON I K 
Denny, Mike Molinelli, Te qulero muchlalmo del toclo mundo, y Congratulations!! Mannerism paid-off 
con todD ml corazon. again! Thanks for being such a good MilDI neighbOr! Tu gatlta 
Chris and Ruth, Clyde, You're really a couple qf nuts, and we Thanks so much for such a special love ya for lt. Thanks for making MG just Valentine's Day. it was the best. that much better. 
Peggy The Shoe Snatchers 

Dear Men of the Last Resort, Disco Jim, 
You're the Top Banana's In Mlchiana. Wow! I i loved every minute of lt··may OPO I have the next dance? The Champagne Lady Thanks for the carnation I Room242 Bart-
Congratulations!!! Now we know who Gary Fair-to call when we want to bum a ride! Here's a personal just for you. I hope T.B., T.H. you enjoy lt. 
An Observer Friend To: Jim, Frank, Phil, Stan, Jeff. Mike, Steve, Keith, Jeff, Jerry, Gary, Dan, Pete Gary Fair--(love those eyes), Jason, anyone else who Here's another personal just for you I helped out but whom I've overlooked, 
Have a field day! and especlalmenle GLENN AND ANDY: Another Observer Friend I love ya all!! You're a fantastic group of 
guys and really made II all worthwhile. ..,. Lyn, thanks for agreat tiJTle last Saturday Zahm Hall Is truly the best on campus­, night. I still need you flelp to shiff into but then, everyone knows that don't 
second. they? Thanks again,Your adoring Rugger. Love, Kim
Kristin-
So how does it feel to be 20 years old. Just think only one you till the big one. ro Laura, Michelle K, Michelle S, Julie. I'm sorry this Is late. You know me Leslie, Shawna, Carrie, Donna. Sue, though-a real space. Hope your day was Mary Pat. Mary Lou, Lenore. Mike. Mary happy. Ellen, Tim, Joe, Bob, John, Bill and all 
XXX those others who helped out with the Diane booth··Thanks for all you efforts. I hope you ali had a fun time, I know I did. To: The King of Emerald City, Thanks again·· 
In gratitude for your being you, I Jeff P. extend my sincere wishes that you discover the treasure within you. Terry. 
Oz Are you aduck? 

P.S. Never gave nothing to the !Inman.. 
, _____ .._ ________ • _,. _______ ..,. • __, __._~ • .-. _...,, ___ ,..,....._ ___ ,. ............... ,.. ....., __.. ~,...,...,, ...-. f#-# "'' ___,... .... , ... ..,..,.;..., .. ,. -----------· -----------------------------------. 

by Lou Severino Sports Wn'ter 
MORGANTOWN, WV -Bill Hanzlik scored a game-high 14 points and the Notre Dame defense shut down Lowes Moore as the Irish downed West Virgin­ia 70-54 before a record crowd of 15,118 in Morgantown Saturday night. 
The game was marred by West Virgima students throwing marshmallows and other objects at several points in the contest. 
The Irish after being greeted by a shower of debris jumped out to a 17-9 lead in the first 8 minutes of the game. N.D.'s guards accounted for 11 out of the 17 markers with hot peri­emter sh~ting. 
Mountaineer guard Joe Fryz then tallied 5 consecutive points to bring the home club back to within 3, 19-16 at the 7:38 mark. At this point N.D. hit a cold spell marked by cold-shooting and turnovers--particularly traveling violations. West Virginia scored the fmal 8 points of the opening 20 minutes, capped by a Dana Perno lay-up at the b\lZzer and West Virginia took a 28-25 lead into the lockerroom. Lowes Moore led the home club with 9 points. But Moore, who burned the ACC nets for 40 points last year, was harassed by Hanzlik's defense and the Irish team defense and shot only 4 of 10 in the first-half. 
' ...students throwing marshmellows and others obJ"ects ... ' 

Notre Dame rebounded well on both boards holding a 17-12 edge. The Irish shot only 36 percent while the Mountaineers scored on 42 percent of their attempts. 
However, the Irish spurted to a quick stan in the second half, holding the Mountaineers with­out a field goal for the ftrst 5 1I 2 
Irish epees anticipate 1OOth straight victory 
minutes. The Irish during that span hit 8 of their ftrst 10 shots, using an excellent passing game to fmd the open shot. Orlando 
Woolridge scored on a drive at 
18:06 to make it 31-29 and Digger Phelp' squad never lost the lead from that point. Defensively, Notre Dame utilized various com­binations (2-3, 1-3-1 and matchup zones) to completely baffle the Mountaineers. W.V.U. coach 
Gale Catlett admitted later that hP.. o:ouldn't keep up with the Irish defense. 
''We were confused. Both the players and myself were unable to ftgure the Notre Dame de­
fense," said Catlett. The first-year coach also alluded to bemg outcoached by Phelps in the second half when the Irish with a 5 point lead, and the ball, went to a "motion-of­fense" against the West Virginia zone. With Catlett content to stay in the zone, the Irish capitalized by padding their lead to 51-38 and running the clock down to 6:38. Bill Laimbeer, Rich Branning and Tracy Jackson combined for 14 points during this span as Notre Dame took command. 
Lowes Moore was frustrated repeatedly by the combination detenses and fmally fouled out with 5JL~e~;onds!eft. Moore who _.afterwards said, "I could have scored 40 if I wanted tc,'' left 
with 9 points on a 4-13 shooting 
•· perfo~ce · . 
The Insh. used supenor free­:' throw shootmg ~ow~ the s~ch, 
Monday, Feb. 19, 1979 -page 12 

leers edge past Gophers 3-2, 8-7 in weekend series 
by Paul Mullaney Assz'stant Sports Editor 

Minnesota Coach Herb Brooks stated as early as last summer that he felt his Golden Gopher skaters were by far the class of the Western Hockey Association. "We're going to win it all," he insisted. 
But whatever that ''all'' included couldn't have been this past weekend's series with Notre Dame at the Athletic and Convo­cation Center. The surging Irish of Coach Lefty Smith swept the visitors from Minneapolis, winning respective 3-2 and 8-7 thrill~rs on Friday and Saturday evenmgs. 
The crucial sweep, in Notre Dame's fmal regular season series at home, vaulted the Irish into an identical tie with Minnesota for second place in the WCHA. But, more importantly, it moved the Gold and Blue closer to gaining home ice advantage for next month's league playoffs. 
Also, it gave the Irish the upper hand m case of a tie with the Gophers come the season's end. Notre Dame took three of the four contests against Brooks and Company in the season series, includin~ one o£ the two games played m Minneapolis. All of which left Smith smiling at the conclusion of Saturday's game. 
"Ifthere's anything that really pleases me about the weekend,'' offered the Irish mentor, ''it's the fact that for the second week in a row we faced a team higher than us in the standings and we beat 'em. 
"To do that two weeks in a row, winning both nights, is a tremendous accomplishment.'' 
The Irish swept Minnesota­Duluth on foreign ice last week­end while UMD was ranked third nationally. The double triumph over the Gophers, ranked second this past week, now gives Notre Dame five straight wins, equalling its longest streak of the year. It also marked the ftrst time in Irish annals that they swept the Gophers in South Bend. 
Nevertheless, the Irish looked like the Notre Dame squad that caused many a head to turn at the season's outset, when the young squad took an early posinon at the top of the league, let alone an envied spot at the top of the national poll. 
"It was a total effort on everyone's part,'' enthused Smith of the latest Notre Dame wins. "We gave up a few too many goals Saturday night, but the fact that we won sort of pushes that to the side. We just hope to keep our momentum gomg this weekend when we play Denver." 
If the Irish will indeed keep up the momentum, they'11 need the continued consistency of fresh­man goalie, Dave Laurion. The veteran-looking rookie was particularly amazing on Friday, while stopping all but two of Minnesota's 32 goal-bound shots. 
In fact, after Neal Broten and Steve Christoff put the Gophers into a 2-0 lead midway through Friday's initial period, Laurion refused to budge the rest of the way. 
The problem for the Irish, however, was that Minnesota's Steve Janaszak was equally up to the task. The senior stalwart, one of the best glove goalies in the WCHA, had shut out the Irish halfway through the contest. That's when Notre Dame decided 
[continued on page 11] 


by Paul Mullaney AsJt'stant Sports Edt'tor 
While Notre Dame's fencing team couldn't take this past Saturday for granted, its members had to be thinking ahead to this coming weekend, when the two-time defending national champions will attempt. to reach the magical mark of 100 straight wins. 
The lon~est streak in collegiate fencing history is now up to 95 straight after the Irish disposed ofPenn State (17-10), Ohio State (16-11) and Michigan State.(19-8) Saturday at Columbus, Ohio. 
The fencers of Mike DeCicco have long been awaiting this week, however. The Irish host seven schools at St. Mary's }. 'lgela Athletic Facility, . including Wayne State, a perennial contender for the national t~tle. Wisconsin and Illinois also are among the schools that will try to abruptly halt the streaking swordsmen. 
The fencers, now 10_0 on the; in betwee~ offictal tlffie outs for current campaign received key · garbag~ ptckups, to .stretch ~e performances thi~ week from ~ lead to tts fmal 16 pomt margm. foilists Steve Salimando and Laimbeer enjoyed a fine Andy Bonk and sabreman Chris second half showing, finishing Lyons. Each recorded seven , with 8 points, 5 reboun~, 3 triumphs in as many bouts for the , Otockc;d shots. and 2 asststs. Irish, who are in quest of their Hanzlik who ~t 5 of 6 from ~e fourth consecutive undefeated fteld led the lrtsh wtth 14, while season. Tracy Jackson added 12 and 
Notre Dame's women dropped Branning dropped in 11. Dana their ftrst two meets of the Perno led the Mountaineers with season, losing to Penn State and 14. On the game N.D. shot 48 Ohio State. Penn State upended percent, while W.V.U. hit 44 ND, 12-4, while Ohio State had percent. Rebounding saw N.D. 
ftve fewer touches to offset a led by Flowers' 8 caroms, hold a deadlock of eight bouts apiece. 33-21 edge. The Irish women defeated N01ES: Hanzlik's 14 point Michigan State, 11-5, leaving effort, marked the ftrst time the their overall record at 7-2. [continued on page 11] 





