

Top 10 stories -page 7 

Thursday, May 17, 1979 an independent stijdent newspaper serving notre dame and s~t mary· s Vol. XIII, No. 129 

Driyers sigh relief; gas strike averted 
Indianaolis (AP) -The Indiana Service Station Dealers Asso­ciation handed motorists an 11th-hour reprieve yesterday, calling off a four-day shutdown of stations a day before it was to begin. . 
But Curtis H. Robertson, the Association's Executive Direc­tor, cautioned that although the protest was cancelled, gasoline ts still in short supply and conservation is essential. 
"We could face some very serious problems by the end of the month," he warned. 
The Association decided the shutdown was unnecessa.ry after the Federal Energy De­partment promised to review the gasoline markup allowed service stations. 
The markup, the difference between the wholesale price and the amount a motorist pays at the pump, excluding taxes, covers a station's overhead, such as rent and salaries. It also provides the owner with his profit. 

As all of you know, we've be;en trying to get the attention of the Department of Energy, and I'm happy to report that we've got it," Robertson said at a news conference. 
He said new regulations on proce margins will be proposed by June 1, and will take effect July 1, according to information obtained by Sen. Birch Bayh and Rep. Philip Sharp, both Indiana Democrats. 
Present regulations stipulate that a dealer's markup can be no more than it was in 'May 1973-plus three cents. Dealers say that doesn't take inflation into account. 
[continued on page 2] 

The statues of Our Lady and Christ welcome Commence­ment weekendvisitors with open arms to Notre Dame. [photo by Mark Ricca, captt'on by Phil CackleyJ. 


Califano to speak at commencement 
Michael Lewis Executive News Editor 
.Joseph A. Califano Jr., secre­tary of Health, Education and Welfare, will speak Sunday at Notre Dame's !34th annual commencement exercises. Cali­fano is one of . the most out spoken and controversial secre­taries in HEW's history, taking strong public stands on smok­ing, alcohol abuse, and equal opportunity in inter-collegtate athletics. 

Ao;; the head of HEW, the largest department of the fed­eral government, Califano is responsible for the depart­ment's annual budget of $162.2 billion, and oversees programs ranging in concern from welfare 
to civil ri"hts 
After President Jimmy Car­ter's election in 1976, he nomi­nated Califano for the HEW post. Califano, a Roman Catho­lic, was well received by the Senate during his nomination hearings, but faced stiff ques­tioning on the abortion issue. Califano claimed that he strong­ly opposed abortion and federal funding of abortions, but prom­ised. to obey the ruling of the 
1979 Senior Fellow 

Fr. john Dunne offers advice 
by Diane Wzlson Managing Editor 
"Look at life in the senst: of a journey with G_od.Let God do the leading. In this way much can happen." This is the advice that Senior Fellow Fr. John Dunne ,has to offer the class of _ 1979. ~ 
By allowing God to lead, life can take on a fullness beyond the pressures of society, Dunne continued. He explained that society places a great emphasis on career success. Dunne is plea~ed that this year's seniors have been able to re:iist this pressure. Many of the seniors will do volunteer work after graduation, which Dunne views as very gratifying· and a selfless gesture. 
Dunne, who was ordained in 1954, graduated from Notre Dame in 1951. He was born in Waco, Texas, and lived there until he entered the the Congregation of Holy Cross at Notre Dame in 1934. He also received his S.T.L. from Georgetown University in Rome in 1955, and his S .T.L. from Gregorian University in 1958. 
This year's ~emor Class Fellow has been the recipient of many awards, including the Rocker­fellow Research Grant in 1960, the Harbison Award for Distinguished Teaching, the Riggs Chair at Yale University Department of Reli­gious Studies, and the Fr. Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching. 

Dunne is described by Notre Dame Magazine as the "most original relig~us thinker of our time.'' Among the books dunne has authored are 
The City ofthe Gods, A Search for God in tt'me and Memory, The Way ofall Earth, and Time andMyth. Dunne has also written articles which have appeared in nation-wide publications, including "St. Thomas' Theology of Participa­tion," Realpolitik in the Decline of the West," "Two Contemporary Approaches to Theology," "The Myth of Gods Death," "The Human God:Jesus," and The Metamorphoses ofFaith.' 
Teaching is a process of gainin~ insight and sharing insight with others, acordmg to Dunne. He explained that the process of education involves both giving and recieving for both the instructor ana the student. 
''Everyone has to find a way to share with others, and teaching is my way," Dunne explained. "Insight is life itself," he continued, "and with me this connects with God." 
Dunne lias been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1957. He exflainedthat he stays at Notre Dame because o its contemplative air. "It's something that you don't notice until you go away and then come back--it's a sort of peacefulness--a sense of spiritual life.'' 
Dunrie said that in travelhng, one experiences a different environment and mind-set. ''Then, when you come back you f?ain a clearer insight into your own wat of life, ' he explained. "It opens your own life up more.'' 
Supreme Court on the issue. On Jan. 24, 1977, his nomination was approved by the Senate by a 95 to 1 vote. 
The son of an Italian immi­grant, Califano was born in Brooklyn, NY on May 15, 1931. He attended Roman Catholic schools, and earned a B.A. from Holy Cross College in 1952. He attended Harvard Law School, where he was·one of the editors of the Harvard Law Review, and graduated magna cum laude in 195 5. 
Califano served in the navy for three years, and then joined the New York law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bush by, Palmer and Wood. 
fn April, 1961, Califano be­came special assistant to the General Counsel of the Depart­ment of Defense. He served in a variety of positions in the Defense Department, and was awarded the Distinguished Civ­ilian Service Medal, the highest civilian award of the Army, for his efforts as General Counsel of the Department of the Army. OnJuly 26, 1965, Califano was appointed Special Assistant to then President Lyndon B. John­son. He worked in developing Johnson's lesislative program and coordinating its presenta­
tion to the Congrei>s. He also. worked on a vanety ot domestic problems. 
Califano left this position in early 1969, and began a word­wide tour on a study ·of the 'youth and establishment' problem under a Ford Founda­
tion grant. 
After this study, Califano was 

a member of two Washington 
law firms before his appoint­
ment as Secretary of HEW. · 
Califano will be presented 

with an honorary doctorate of 
law degree by University Pres­
ident Fr. Theodore Hesburgh at 
Sunday's ceremonies. 
Housing department trans_fer 
by K. Connelly Senior StaffReporter 
Vice-president for Student Af­
fairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear and 
Vice-president for Business ~£­
fairs Thomas Mason are dts­
cussing the possibility of 
moving the office of Housing. 
back under the jurisdiction of 
Student Affairs. 
Housing was placed under the 
authority of Business Affairs 
last year m order to improve the 
quality of dormitory mainten­
ance. Mason said that last year 
the big problem with hall life 
was inefficient maintenance. 
Rectors complained of delayed 
repairs and being unable to 
requisition ha.ll supplies. 
Mason and Bro. Just Pac­
znesy, vice-presindent for Stu­
dent Affairs at the time, de­
cided to move Housing under 
Business Affairs because they 
believed that office could better 
deal with maintenance prob­
lems. 
This year, maintenance prob­
lems have been getting the 
attention of Donald Dedrick, 
director of the Physical Plant. 
Mason and Van Wolvlear be­
lieve that, since maintenance 
problems are being taken care 
of, and owing to the special 
problems of many situations 
dealing with housing, the Hous­
ing office would function better 
under Student Affairs. 
"Since Dedrick is reliable and 
responsible, there has been no 
problem with maintenance in 
the halls,'' Van Wolvlear 
stated. 
The Vice-president for Student Affairs also noted that, during the past year that Housing has been under Business Affairs, students would bring housing related problems to his office and that Mason would refer special cases back to the Student Affairs office. 
Since a lot of student unrest 
regarding hall life came directly 
to the office of Student Affairs, 
Housing may as well be Student 
Affairs· specific responsibility, 
Van Wolvlear stated. He added 
that student life in the hall is 
properly the concern of his 
office. 
Mason said that his experience in the past year has proved that ,students feel more comfortable dealing with Student Affairs on issues concerning housing. ''They feel that Housing 1s naturally the concern of Student Affairs and generally they go to that office first," he added. Van Wolvlear agreed with Mason. "It makes more sense to have us in charge since our. special office is concerned with people," he stated. Responsi­bilities like room assignments will be returned from Business Affairs to Student Affairs if Van Wolvlear and Mason decide to make the switch 
[continued on page 2] 
·~-.-_­




















~-----­

News in brief 
Thursday, May 17, 1979-page 2 
• • . Gas shortage 
Professor calls war vets 
[contittued from page 1] tighter this summer, Robertson cents a gallon and the average said, forcing some stations to price of premium fuel was 95.8 Robertson said he hopes sta­go to a five-day wek to conserve cents a gallon.

'disaster survivors' 
tions will be allowed a 30 fuel. Brown, who signed legislation percent markup over wholesale Across the Nation Tuesday designed to force more Chicago (AP)-Vietnam War veterans and survivors of 
costs, but would be satisfied dealers to stay open on week­
The Federal Governmentcatastrophic events share many similarities, sa'/.s a Purdue 
with an additional 3.4 cents a ends, said after meeting with
promised to give CaliforniaUnivers1ty professor who served in Vietnam. 'We should 
gallon above the three cents Carter at the White House:
more gasoline next month andbegin to view the Vietnam veteran as a disaster survivor,'' 
already permitted. ''The President has said that
car owners elsewhere foundCharles Figley, assistant prpfessor and directo of Purdue's 
Robertson said the Association May will be the lowest alloca­
that getting fuel can be larselyFamily Research Institute said yesterday. He made his 
is urging stations to continue tion of gasoline. In June,
a matter of being in the nghtcomments in an address to the annual meeting of the 
normal operations today things will improve.'' 
place at the right time-with theAmerican Psychiatric Association Here. Figley compared 
through Sunday, but said some There were no specifics, but
right amount of money. 
Vietnam veterans to the survivors of a disastrous flood in 
may still close to conserve Rep. John Rouseliot, R-Calif.,
California Gov. Edmund G.
Buffalo Creek, WV in which 125 persons were killed. "The 
gasoline for the upcoming quoted Energy Secretary] ames 
Brown, who met with President survivors (of Buffalo Creek) were afflicted with disoq~an­
Memorial Day weekend, includ­R. Schlesinger as saying federal 
Carter in Washington yesterday ization, sluggishness in thinking and decision-makins, 
ing the Indianapolis 500-mile officials ''will move as rapidly
said the "shock, frustration,hallucination and sleep disturbances and nightmares," satd 
race. as they can" to make sure the
and anger'' in his state are just·Figley, who is also direcot of Purdue's Consonium on Veteran 
-Even if the shutdown had gone ' state gets as much as it got last 
a taste of what will happen inStudies. He said the same stresses have been observed in 
on as planned, it was uncertain , year.
the rest of the country. 
combat veterans. 
how many of the more than ' Brown said: ''California is in a Indiana's 3,000 major brand i An Associated Press spot state of shock, frustration, and
check showed that few motor­
stations would have closed. anger. I don't think this is 
Some surveys indicated as few ists are facing lines like the limited to my state. I think it is 
as 20 percent in some areas ones in California,but the sup­going to spread.''

Weather 
ply picture across the country
were planning to participate. Conservation may hold the key 
varies widely. 
But Robenson insisted that as to _supplie~ in m~y st:'ltc:s..
Today SUNNY and mild, highs in the mid 70s to about 80. 
many as 30 percent of the In the Southeast, there are He1tzer said he thinks Vrrgm1atonight fair and not so cool. Lows in the upper 40s and low state's stations would have shut spot shortages, but nothing can get through the summer "if50s. Tomorrow mostly sunny and a little warmer, highs in down. His association repre­serious, said Maurice Meyers the (>eople reduce non-essential 
the low and mid 80s. · sents about 1,000 stations. of the Georgia Motor Club. The drivmll ... but that's an awfully 
Gasoline supplies may be even Montana Automobile Associa­bi if.y' tion said it's most recent ~eitzer said he saw some lines survey showed ''stations at gasoline stations last week­thought they would get ade­end, but said none of them was 
quate fuel to last through very long. "I'm watching the


Camp_us____~ 
• • • Transfer May." approaching Memorial Day [continued from page 1) In Illinois, the Chicago AAA weekend very cautiously," the reponed supplies are ''definite­said, noting that the end of the 
Thursday, May 17 month is worse than any other

official. ly tightening.'' And in Virginia time because dealers are wait­8:30 pm, THEATRE* "amphytrion '79", O'LAUGHilN 
At present, Business Affairs ] ames W: Heitzer o~ t~e Gas?­
AUDITORIUM SMC. 

handles maintenance and refers line Retailers Association said ing for fresh supplies. other concerns to Student Af­the situation was ''very deli­The Minnesota AAA said sup­Friday, May 18 
fairs. Thus, the only difference cate." plies should be adequate at in administration, should the The Lundber~ Letter, an in­least throught the Memorial transfer take place, would be dustry publication that regular­Day weekend. No long lines
6:30 pm, LAWN CONCERT -university concen band, MEMORIAL UBRARY MALL. 
that housing Director Edmund ly surveys (>roces at 16,700 gas have been reported so far-not Price would report to Van stations, sa1d that as of 'may 4, even last weekend when the Wolvlear instead of Mason. ti.e-LJational average price of opening of the fishing season·8:30 pm AMPHYTRION'79, O'LAUGHI.lN AUDITORIUM* 
"Housin~ can't be run as a leaa'-_ regular gasoline was prompted more that one millionSMC. 
business,' Van Wolvlear said. 79.1 cents a gallon. The ~eople to head for the lakes and ''There are too many personal unleaded average was 93.6 rlVers.
Saturday, May 19 
problems involved which should be the responsibility of

10 am ROTC COMMISSIONING" SOUTH DOME* ACC. 
our office. " Moira Baker, rector of Lewis, 11:30 am, PHI BETA KAPPA INSTALLATION* INITIATES 

favored the transfer of Housing

ARE REQUESTED TO ARRIVE AT 11· AM* MEMORI.A.L 
from Business to Student At~
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM fairs , saying that "the issues, involved are more complex than 2 pm TO ¥3:30pm, UNIVERSI'IY RECEPTION FAMILIES 

dollars and cents. Frequently, if

OF THE !JRADUATES ARE INVITED TO ATIEND* CCE. 
only business criteria! are used, 

)
the more delicate aspects of the

4:05 pm, GRADUATES ASSEMBLE FOR ACADEMIC 
problem are neglected or over­

PROCESSION> ACC AUXILIARY GYM "ENTER GATES 1 looked," she added.
AND 2. 
She noted, however, that Bus­iness Affairs' handling of Hous­

4:20 pm, ACADEMIC PROCESSION*ACC, AUXILIARY 
ing created no problems in 
GYM. 
Lewis this year. 

especial~y Ton_y, Barb, john, Phil, Ra_y,
S PM TO 6 :30 pm, BACCALAUREATE MASS* ACC* 
SOUTH DOME. 

~1be Observer_ 

Sue, Frank, john, Debbie, Mary, 
7 pm to 8:30 pm COCKTAIL PARTY AND BUFFET 
Night Editor: Scoop SaiiiVIn

SUPPER, tickets ace required and must be purchased in · 
Layout Staff: Margie 81'11111, 

and Mardi. 
Ryan Ver Bertmeils

advance, NORTH DOME' ACC· ente.:J:b 3 or 4. South 
Editorial Layout: Ami IIICI

dining hall, since no parking wiU be a le at the south 
Clthy Giles 



fff)rn

dining hall, complimentary bus service will be located at 
Features Layout: ROIIIIIIfy

·gates 1,8, and 10 of the ace immediately following the 
Mills 
Sports ~ Mark Perry
baccalaureate mass. 
Typists: Sullivan, Bill 
Roche, Mark Perry, R.,.._

9 pm CONCERT' university of notre dame glee club, 
mary Mills, Diane Wilson,SlEPAN CENTER. 
GReg Hldgea, Mike Lewis, 
Ann Gales, Margie B;assll, 
and countlm hordea of other slightly demented peons Copy Editor: K. Connelly 
Sunday, May 20 

10:30 am to 1 pm, BOX LUNCH tickets must be purchased 
HAVE YOUR WEDDING
Ad Layout: Bob Rudy, Greg

in advance, graduates with meal validated identification 
Hedges 
LOVE STORY 

cards need not purchase a ticket, NORTH AND SOUTH 
Photographer: Mark Ricca 
CREATIVELY TOLD 
DINING HALLS. 

1:35pm, ACADEMIC PROCESSION ACC. 
FAMILY PORTRAITS
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­
IN THE HOME

2pm, COMMENCEMENT AND CONFERING OF DE­
cept during exam and vacation periods.

GREES. tickets for admission to the commencement 
The Observer Is published by the 
INSTANT PASSPORTS &

exercises are required for parents and guests. ACC* SOUTH 
students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be
DOME. 
APPLICATION PHOTOS
purchased for $20 per year [$10 par semester] from The Observer, P.O. box

4 pm, DISTRIBUTION OF BACHELOR'S AND MASTER'S 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 
PHOTO COPY AND
DIPLOMAS* ACC. 
class p=e paid, Notre Dame, In­diana . 
RESTORATION 
The Observer Is a member of the

4:30 pm, LAW SCHOOL DIPLOMA CEREMONY* WASH­
Associated Press. All reproduction
INGTON HALL. 
rights are reserved. 
CHILDREN ANIMALS 


The Observer -Sports 
Officials explain overcrowding 
problem 
bJ K. Connelly Semor StaffReporter 
University officials attribute overcrowdmg in campus dorm­itories ot the fact that in­creasing numbers of students across the country are opting to live on-campus. 
Director of Business Affairs Thomas Mason indicated that the primary reason for the popularity of on-campus hous­mg at Notre Dame and in the rest of the nation is that it is cheal'er to live on-campus. · Residence hall occupancy fig­ures from the Housmg Office support the claims that more 
' 


Fr. john Dunne was selected this year's Senior Fellow by the class. [photo by Mark Ricca]. 
Thursday, May 17, 1979 -page 3 
students are electing to live on · campus. 
Residence hall occupancy fig­ures from the Housmg Office support the claims that more students are electing to live on campus. The total number of students who turned in housing contracts in 1974 was 3552, but in 1978, the number jumped to 4116 while total enrollment decreased by 213. 
"The problem doesn't arise from the admission of more students," Mason stated. "One of the major reasons for over­
crowding  is  that  living  off­ 
campus  can  be  a  problem  
economically.  



Admission Office statistics appear to conftrm Mason's statement (see Table II). The university has accepted a small­er percentage of applicants each year over the past five years, resulting in atotal de­crease in enrollment of 213 from 1974 to 1978. 
John Goldrick, director of Admissions, observed that 
while there has been a de­crease in the percent 0f stu­dents conftrming acceptance, there has been an increase in the number of sophomores, juniors, and seniors who elect to remain on campus. 
Mason said that the over­crowding problem is contigent on how many students want to live on campus. · 
''Ifwe knew how many wanted to live on campus from year to year we could put up the . additional space," Mason com­mented. 
Since housing does not know how many students will request on-campus housing each year, they must be conservative in construction of dorm space, because if more students in a given year choose to live off­campus, rooms that they would normally occupy would be va­cant and result in large finan­cial losses. 
Mason also rioted that except for eight or nine halls, there are no more students living in halls at present than the buildings were originally designed to accommodate. 
He noted, however, that the rooms in some halls are crowd­ed even with normal occupancy because when they were de­signed students didn't bring as much with them then as they do today. 
"As students' expectations of a room change, the romp seems smaller," Mason explained. 
Edmund Price, director of Housing said that housing is "in much better shape this year.'' Both Mason and Price said that residence levels in most halls are down to what they were two years a~o. 
Another factor besides the economic appeal of living on.::­
campus  is  that  some  rooms  
were  lost  last  year  to  the  
construction of  social  space,  

according to .Price "But we have to have social space," he added. ''The only solution to the problem is to add dormitory space." 

SMC Seniors receive honors 
by Margie Brasszl Asst~ftant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's College Honors Convocation was held on Sunday, May 6 in O'Laugh­lin Auditorium. The Honors Convocation was reinstated last year after having been discon­tinued in the late sixties. Student Academic honors, fac­ulty honors and faculty promo­tions were delivered dunng the ceremony. 
The ceremony began with a procession from Madeleva Hall, the Science Building, Moreau Hall and the Language Depart­ment in Regina 'Hall. After processing into the auditorium Fr. James Zatko, a member of 
1 SMC Campus Ministry, gave the opening /rayer and Vice­president an Dean of Faculty William Hickey gave a welcome address. 
Seniors named to Magna Cum Laude were: Ellen Bussing, 'Mary Patricia Butler, Mary Colleen Cannon, Catherine Car­roll, Margaret Dorsher, Alison Drumm, Susan Fitzpatrick, Rosemary Hammer, 'MaryBeth Higgins, Ruby J o Lingnowski, Karen Lippert, Doris Mannes, Susan Mazanec, Robin McCon­nell, Patricia Munno, Jacque­line Nanfito, Maureen O'Bnen, Mary Pat Riley, Katherine Sei­berg, Debra Spangler, Anne Streckfus, Tern Thompson, Lisa Turco, Lynn Vajda and Kaliope Zembillas. 
The highest academic honor, Summa Cum Laude, requiring a cumulative of 3.8 or better, was received by: Cynthia Bender, Alice Lou, Victoria Morgan, Mary Beth Phillips, Monica Smith, Kathryn Tremblay, Ter­
esita Valdiva and Paula Vernon. 
Mrs. Teresa Marcy, assistant to the vice-president, delivered certificates to the students who were received into Kappa Gamma Pi. These were: Susan Alaro, Cynthia Jo Bender, Kathryn Brown, Bflen Bussing, Mary Patricia Butler, J uhe Canepa, Mary Colleen Cannon, Paula Carroll, Mary Clark, Margaret Dorsher, Alison Drumm, Mary Ann Ferguson, Susan Fitzpatrick, Kathleen Haggerty, Rosemary Hammer, Mary Beth 'Higgins, Norma Hinkey, Diane Klucka, Ruby J o Lingnowski, Karen Lippert, Dons Mannes, Susan Masinel, Catherine McCullough, Nancy Miller, Victoria Morgan, Patri­cia Munno, Martha Panfil, Sha­ron Quinn, Theresa Richeson, Mary Beth Roitz, Lisa Rossi, 
Judith Schaefer, Kathleen Sel­vaggi, Kathleen Senderak, Debra Spangler, Teresita Val­diva, Paula Vernon, and Carol Walkowiak. 
Each department of the Col­lege bestowed awards on stu­dents within each department 
considered  to  be  the  most  
outstanding.  
Two  awards  were  presented  

by Ann Susala of the Biology 
Department: the Mother Rose 
Elizabeth Award to Nancy Rea­
gan and the Sr. Rosaleen 
Dunleavy Award to Nancy Cor­
coran. A new award was 
created this year in the names of George and Wanda Bick for their contributions. The award was presented to Ann Marie Miller for outstanding research in nature studies. -Chemistry Department Chair­man Dorothy Feigl awarded ] ulie Klippa a copy of the Merck Index for the MOther Rose Elizabeth Award. 
Sr. Eva Marie Hooker, English 
department Chairman, awar­
ded the English P.rize to_ Peggy 
Dorsher and Momca Smah. 
Bro. Bernard Donahoe presen­ted the Outstanding Senior History Award to Mary Phillips. 
The Professor Milko J eglic Award for Achievement in Mathematics was given to Doris Mannes by Sr. M. Patrick Coonex. 
The Saint Catherine Medal and undergraduate achieve­ment award was presented by Dr. Duggan to Catherine Loftus a junior R.A. in LeMans. : 
Dr. William Hickey announced the faculty promotions: Diana Hawfield of the Speech and Drama Department was pro­moted to Assistant Professor. Promoted to Associate Profes­sor were Margaret Cavanaugh, chemistry, Sr. Eva Marie Hooker, English, and Deanna Soklowski, English. 
Also awarded to faculty mem­bers was the Maria Pi eta Award presented to Linnea Vacca, Assistant Professor of English, and the Spes Unica Award presented to Sr. Maria Assunta Werner, Professor of Religious Studies. the ceremony was concluded by some remarks by College Prest­clem Dr. John Duggan, and a Benediction by Fr. Edward Krause. 
James.Zwermeman, chairman of Business and Economics, presented the AICPA award to Alice Lou. The award is from the Indiana Chapter of the American Institute of CPA for the top record in accounting. The Wall Street' Journal Stu­em Achievement Award was giyen to Mary McKenzie. 

THE OBSERVER 
can be mailed directly to your home! 
Subscribe now for the 1979-1980 Academic Year 
THE OBSERVER P.O.Box Q Notre Dame IN 
46556 

name----------­
Address---------­
Town--------State-
Zip--------­
$).0 per semester $20 per year 
Keep up with the latest in campus news, sports, features and editorials. 
ALL SUBSCRIPTIONS MUST BE PAID IN ADVANCE 
lltflnl ,,,CtJ. "''· 
' 

~ o~$'t?J ~~<t-t?J 
f<\; .232~3354 
.COMPLETE WIRE SERVICE 327 UncolnWayWest South Bend, Indiana 46601 



Thompson retires after 30years at ND 


Ideal gift 
for that 
special occasion 
The Hesburgh Papers: Higher Values in Higher Education 
by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 
Dean Thompson will retire at the end ofthis semester after 17 years ofservice at Notre Dame. '[photo by Mark Rtcca.] 
by]ohn Ferroli 
Richard J. Thompson, assist­ant dean in the college of Arts and Letters for the past 17 years, will retire at the end of this semester. 
Thompson came to Notre Dame 10 1948 as a philosophy professor. He started the Gen­eral Program in 1950, and continued to teach until 1966. From 1966 to 1968, Thompson headed the Upward Bound 
program. ''In the sixties,'' Thompson 
He stated that he will begin teaching again despite his new emeritus status. "I haven't taught since 1968," Thompson noted, "because I've had not time for class preparation.'' 
In an interview, Thompson reflected on the changed he has witnessed at Notre Dame since 1948. lp the fifties, the Univer­sity enrolled a good number of veterans who, according to Thompson, ''were very prag­matic.'' 
Notre Dame's president has been in office longer than any other currently active president of a maior American university. Here he ·reveals the private thoughts and behind-the-scenes 
events which have marked his political~ religious, and educational involvements.  ·  
'  
Available now at Sl2.95  Sook Department 2nd floor  

----The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Thursday, May 17, 1979-page 4 

Residence hall plans proceed on schedule 
by Michael Lewis Executive News Editor 
Plans for a new residence hall are "going very smoothly," accordmg to. University Provost Timothy O'Meara. "Everything is on schedule, and if no problems develop we expect the dorm to go up in the very near future,'' he said yesterday. 
The dormitory will probably have a companion hall which will be built when the money is available. "It is a virtual cer­tainty that the money will be available for one dorm in the near future," O'Meara said. Each hall will hold 250 students. 
The space that is created by the dorm will be used to increase the undergraduate en­rollment of women. O'Meara added, however, that it is not certain whether men or women will live in the new structure. 
The planned dormitory com­plex will probably be located between the towers and Mem­orial Library. The new hall will offer a variey of room options and will not be a high-rise structure like Flanner and Grace halls. 
"We've consulted with stu­dents and rectors, and we've learned that it is important to offer a variety of room types in the dorm itself," O'Meara com­mented. 
He said that the administra­tion could either build a large dorm for approximately 500 people or two "mimi-dorms." The second option was chosen, he said, because the plan offers greater intimacy and interac­tion between students within the dorm. 
O'Meara added that the Uni­versity is still seeking a loan from the Department of Hous­ing and Urban Development to help finance the construction. That /rocess should be com­plete sometime in the month Q[ June, he estimated. 
... Funds 
[continued from page 8] 
lstriltion, Management), Albert 
H. LeMay (Modern/Classical languages), John Lucey (Aero­spaceI Mechanical Engineer­ing), and James P. Sterba (Phi losophy). 
The six administrators are John Cackley (Executive Direc­tor of the AlumniAssociation's, Donald Dedrick (Director ot Maintenance), John Goldrick (Director ofAdmissions), Thomaskirschner (Accountant), Sister Jean Lenz (Farley Hall rector), and Richard J. Sullivan (Office of the Registrar). 
Mark Casentino and Mike O'Reilly were appointed by the Board as the undergraduate student representatives to the Board of Traffic and Parking 
•Appeals. These students must be approved by the Dean of Students. 

said, ''we had an enrollment boom. More people had more money, and therefore we had more students.'' The most sig­nificant change the ex-dean has seen at Notre Dame was the co-educational transition, which he believed "provided us with an amazingly good applicant pool:'' · 
Thompson believes that thge the current student body reflects the pragmatism of the fifties. He discussed this phenomenon in relatiotr to the Arts and Letters college at Notre Dame. 
''The present generation of students is not unlike that ofthe fifties," he stated. "They're looking for a kind of pay-off. from their education, and you can't fault them for that." 
Thompson said that the in­creasin~ interest and enroll­ment 10 the business and engineering colleges is wide­spread, but he defended the Arts & Letters education with empirical data. 
"We have figures from the graduate business school at the University of Michigan which show that the majority of enter­prises in this country, including the largest, are not run by accountants or engineers,'' Thompson stated. "They're run by people with arts and letters backgrounds.'' 
Thompson does not consider a graduate handicapped by an Arts and Letter's degree "Historically, we have seen that the Arts and Letters grad­uate, within 15 years or so, will usually be in a position to be hirin7 accountants and engin­eers, ' he observed. "The fellow with the humanities per­spective almost always rises higher than the fellow with the 
. immediately marketable skills." The retiring dean noted that in the sixties, the Arts & Letters college was flooded with stud­ents because the economy was such that a mere diploma could land a job. "We were even [continued on page 8] 
University holds Family Hall activites 
Notre Dame Alumni are invited to participate in Family Hall activities to be held on the University campus June 10 to August 4. More than 5,000 persons have been accommo­dated during the last three summers in the Lewis resident­ial facility. 
Former students and their families may tour the campus, attend concerts and lectures or engage in such sports as swim­ming, tennis, and golf. Super­
vised  recreation  will  be  pro­ 
vided  for  small  children  and  
summer  sports  camps  pro­ 

grams are available for older children. Participants must ad­vance register for the summer sports camp. 
Families may choose to spend 
. ~ne evening or up to a week on campus. Fees range from $10 for parents and $3 for two children in an adjoining room to $60 for a family of four over seven nights. Laundry and lim­ited kitchen facilities are avial­able. 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------­
) ­

Editorials 
Thutsday, May 17, 1979-page 5 
Ch-ch-ch-ch·anges 
Ch-ch-ch-changes Turn andface the strain Ch-ch-ch-Ohanges Oh, look out you rock 'n rollers .. . Pretty soon now you're gonna get older Time may change me, But I can 't trace time 
-David Bowie from Changes 
.ANDA 
~1.\IY, I ~ss. 
I 
¥= 

' 'f'E<; I I sriLt. "ffiiNK --rniS IS ~ I\ '61G OIL Cctllf1l.N'( HOO .. 'QJIIT A CONVINCII'G 1-P\X I Ml NP YOJI 'BUT AHOAX I NM'RrHELESS I I. 
I 

The Crunch of'79 
by art buchwald 
Washington--Someday it will be 
known as the ''Gas Crunch of 
'79." It all started when the 
Ayatollah Khomaini said, "I'm 
sick and tired of French food. I 
want to go home to Qum." 
Word was passed in Iran and 
much to the suprise of the CIA, 
there were millions of Iranians 
in the streets shouting ''Down 
with the Shah.'' The oil fields 
were shut down and one of the 
major sources of fuel in the 
Western world was shut off. 
This called for a meeting of the other oil-producing states who said, ''Thanks be to God, the Iranians are not pumping any oil. We owe it to ourselves to raise our prices at this time because you never know when another shah will fall again.'' 
When the news reached the oil company executives at Petroleum Club, they all said, "OPEC has done a terrible thing by raising its oil prices, therefore we owe it to ourselves and our stockholders to raise our prices as well. We may not see a windfall like this again for a long time.'' 
President Carter then went on the air and said that, because of the expected gaso­line shortages brought about by a lack of conservauon, he was decontrolling the price of oil in order to discourage Americans from wasting it. He promised that any excessive profits the oil companies made from de­control would go to J?Oor people. 

The oil compames reacted strongly to this proposal, saying they would rather take the windfall profits and look for more oil which they were certain they could find if the price was nght. 
Sen. Kennedy said President Carter had bowed t<Y pressure from the oil companies for decontrols. President Carter replied, "Ba­loney.'' 
Strangely enough, this did not resolve the situation. 
By this time, the media played its usual helpful role in contributing to the crisis. 1V stations all over the country sent out mobile crews to film gas stations that were closed on Sundays. 
The public was suddenly thrown into a panic and every­body got in their cars and drove to the nearest pump to fill up their tanks. People who used to be happy with a quarter or half a tank of gas weren't satisfied until they had a full one. So there was twice ali much gas in everyone's tank than before the panic. 
7HifrSRDrf,HE HAS! IAI!U, HCs
H& ;:&PTSPeA/(/NfJ 

OH, C'MON,
HeY,atJ)()IJ 
SHeiLA 7lJi.P MEHE'S VfAY PRO· 

YeAH, 8lffI
I'M NCIT SURE. 
/Ai-fAT {)() CAl!RRN/AN 70 Me. 
1?/CHAIW, YtlJ
6ETHX.IJOF 
TAKINfi ~-FIC/eNT. I

I (XJUI.{)N'T 
AL.I.£44YS I3NP
G0{){ff7{)
~nAN? I 7HI~ He's 8C13N
I Ot/1/Ne, RIC/<? 

UNCJEilSlANI) 
UP HAVIN6 7tJ
/JiiNC£ CIJRi£:5 MJM CWIJJN'T 

CALIFORNIA
t CANHE~ 

\ 57WY!ytr! 
1Hf; CAJ.JfOWIA IN5T1-MAl<£ OUT 

00/NTAT 7Ht3
HIM. 
A/..J.. 1H~71M~! 
M/1N(J5.

-~? I 7li1C fiR 7HE MEJ.JIJU! AIAKJ/lP HE. 
I
SAJP. 
~ 
The price offuel did not deter 
people from buying it. The 
higher it got, the more des~er­
ate car owners became to find 
it. 
Husbands came home at 
night and bera'ted their wives if 
they didn't find a full tank in 
their cars. Unleaded gas sold at 
a premium because Detroit had 
forgotten to tell Houston how 
many new cars with catalytic 
conveners would be on the 
road. 
Gas station owners discover­
ed that their previous allot­
ments would not last for more 
than three weeks. Long lines 
formed at stations · and while 
people waited anxiously to get 
to the pumps, they burned up 
more gasolme than the entire 
Iranian shutdown had cut.off. 
The Department of Energy 
was not asleep. It set up a 
hotline that consumers could 
call when they thought they 
were being gouged. Twenty· 
two gas stations were caught 
and severely punished. 
In the meantime, the DOE 
announced that the major oil 
companies had overcharged 
their customers and estimated 
$1.7 billion. The DOE said that 
there was nothing criminal 
about this, but it would be nice 
if the oil companies gave back 
the money to their consumers. 
This made many Americans 
mad, and they decided that the 
oil companies had created the 
crisis to make more money. 
They all drove onto the hi~h­
ways, rolled down their wm­
dows and shouted, ''We're 
damn mad and we're not going 
to take it any more." 
The Ayatollah Khomaini is 
now back in Qum, oblivious to 
the fact that he originated 
the"Gas Crunch of79." One of 
the main reasons is that he .doesn't own a car. 
[c] 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor . . . . . . Diane Wilson 
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commemaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly Business Manager ..... Steve Odland 
The Observer is an independem their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Production Manager .... Tim SuUivan newspaper published by studems of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust· the Uruversiry of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor ........... Mike Shields Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Controller .......... Kevin Mani~n necessiuily rdlect the ·policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor .........·..Mark Perry 
_The Observer._ 

'-,, .. ' 
I ; . ' ~ 
1

', • .. i ·.I '1~ 1' I ' ,-; \ '-•j • :,
0
·.,. 

·-... ...,; -..... _,. ~ "=" ...... -...... •. • e. .. • • t, e. ~ .. ., 111. •, • a. a. t &. •, &. t • c, r • ~.A. •, 
Features 
Thursday, May 17, 1979 -page 6 
LETI'ERS TO A LONELY GOD 
A Very Holy Blueprint ~ 
Rev. Robert Griffin 

In the blueprints of creation, I think you should remember, God made notations beside your naQ)e: "Prec­ious,'" He wrote, and "fra~ile," and"made in Our own image.' You would have preferred, perhaps, that He designated you as ''clever'' and "Good-looking," and "Destined to be a big success;'' and perhaps He did, though we've only been tola a little of what the blueprint says. All you can be sure ofis that He values you a great deal; and if you were to be sent off as mail, the package would have to be stamped for Special Handling. 
I suppose the real hesitation comes, on shabby mornings, in accepting ourselves as God's own image. You will say, maybe, "I've never had a shabby mormng." I have no wish to hang shabby mornings on you;but if one should come, examine yourself for traces of God's image; then, ask your self if the guilt t and discouragement make you feel like an immortal child resembling your Father. 
Precious, fragile, and made in God's image: that's all of God's plan you know. Mostly what you have been thinking about is majoring in Accoun­ting, and how soon you'll be certified as a C.P.A. God's plan--if there is a simultaneous gestures in the same embrace? He who has hugged his kids, Philip, has hugged the Father." We keep failing to recognize God as He touches us in our human experi­ence. Then we ask astronauts if they can find traces ofHim when they move in orbit from]upiter to the moon. 
Ernst and Ernst have their corporate image, and God has His immortal image in whose likeness we are made and intended to grow: but the specifics of the two images are never clear. In business, Brooks Brothers can sell you the shirts you need, and Florsheim can sell you the shoes. In faith, the Church can fit you with sacraments leading to eternal life. But the tailor can not make the man, nor can rituals make the Christian. Creeds can help you with their immortal insights, ifyou believe in them. If you can not trust creeds, begin with your own best honorable convictions, though it be simply an enthusiasm for programs giving free milk to orphans and hot lunches to working mothers. Live your beliefs faithfully and pas­sionately, as the truths that make men free; then leave it to grace to help you grow God-llike. 
"I could believe in God," you say, 
his wife heard the sound of the Lord God walking-in the garden at the time of the evemng breeze and hid among the trees of the garden.'' Man hid himself so well, he has trouble finding God; and now the trees--the wars, the suffering-, the loneliness --are like a dense JUngle separating creatures from the Lord God who used to stroll on the earth in the Garden of Eden, having an evening smoke. 
Man says to God: ''Cut down the trees and find me, if you can, if you really exist.'' 
God answers: "It wouldn't do any good: you'd just find other places to hide. But with my help, and with me at your side, you can walk out of the jungle by yourself. "Creatures want the earth changed by God's power; God wants the earth changed by creatures' love. 
"Man, you precious image of mine" the Lord says, "I could blast you out of the water with my omnipotence. But what good would that do in helping you grow into a free choice of Me? I don't want you following Me like a political wardheeler who licks the boots of power. " 
''I want you to be my children, my sons and daughters, heirs to eternal life, at home in the heart of truth and light. I want your love to consent to my love, at the times and places of our mutual crucifixions.'' 
At Ernst and Ernst, you are an A.B. in Accounting from Notre Dame, a Certified Public Accountant, a Repub­lican or Democrat, a member of the ~st:ablishment. Soon, you'll be a JUnior partner; eventually, you may become chairman of the board. In creating you precious, fragile, and in His own image, God has even bigger plans. No company could pay you what you are truly worth;no university could ever teach you truth that is as profoundly true ~s you are true. There's a love story you are a part of that includes God's cross, and your private crosses, and your Brooks Brothers shirt and your Florsheim shoes. All of it is God's image, A.B., C.P.A., Republican or Democnit member of the Establishment. Be 
careful ofit, for it is frag;;ile as you are fragile, and all of it is planned out as precious, according to the specification of a very holy blueprint. 

God, and He has a plan --sounds "if He would stop the wars, end the remote and imfrobable, like the silver suffering and keep children from being mine you wil inherit from distant hungry when they go to sleep at relatives in Nevada. night.'' Yet, as a grieving fact of life 
A man said recently: ''The only way on this planet, there is undernourish­I could know I was truly loving God ment in the slums, loneliness in the would be to put my arms around Him nursing homes, bombings in the North and hug Him in the way I hug my wife of Irela;'Jd;so w_e call Him Deu_s and kids.'' abscondztus, the hidden God, and ask If 
"Did you ever think,"! said, "That He's still around. But hiding is Q.Ot hugging God and hugging a family are-God's trick, but man's."The man and 
The Talking Head 
A Graduation Speech 
~ 
,/ .. 
~ 
~, ... · 
,I 


Each year a distinguished speaker gives a Congress. You do have one point, though,stirring oration to the University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame Administration is a little toughergraduating class. If the speaker has prepared to bargain with than the President." properly and is on the same wave length as the T.S. "You make us sound so selfish. What students, the stirring ovation results in a about all the good things that go on here?'' standing ovation. That should be the case this ].C. "For instance?" year, as reliable source and cum laude Deep T. "Bulla Shed." Ear heard this year's speaker]oseph California ] .C. "Isn't that one of your cheers at the rapping with a typical Domer to get a feel for basketball g-ames?'' what the students are into here at DuLac. T.S. "No, It's a/lace where students go to ] .C. "What have the major issues been this pray together an find some peace of mind. year, typical student?" We also have a lot of students involved at 
T.S. 
"There's the big overcrowdin~ problem in Logan Center. '' the dorms, and students were worned that they J.C. "What's that, a sci-fi club for Logan's might be lotteried off-campus. The Dean Run.~" issued a new alcohol directive so we can't have T.S. "No, it's a place where students can keg~ers anymore. The dining hall food is spend time helping the mentally and physically ~ettmg worse and worse. The athletic budget handicapped. Then, there's CILA." IS a sacred cow --we don't have money for a J .C. "Is that the Communist International new student center, but there's enough to hire Legislation of Anarchists.?" lobbyists to fight Title IX. Student Govern­T.S. "No, it's the Community for the ment tries, but they can't get anythin~ done International Lay Apostolate. They do a lot of because the administration is imposs1ble to good things for people. Then there's the work with." -Neighborhood Study Help Program. They're ].C. "But aren't there any major issues on trying to put back together grade school kids campus?" who went through your educational system.'' 

T.S. 
"Those are the major issues. You see, ] .C. "I think that's enough. I didn't realize Notre Dame is a self-sufficient community and there were such good things going on here. All we don't have to worry about anyone else ifwe I usually hear from students is the negativedon't want to." side. That always makes a great graduation ].C. "Waht, are you living on Mars? You talk speech. You know, 'What higher education about a housing problem,try finding a home for has not done for you'." 10,000 Vietnamese refugees. You want liberal T.S. "But why talk about Notre Dame's alcohol policies, but my department is trying to weaknesses? You can find weaknesses in put 20 million alcoholics back together and anything, and , besides, you haven't got all provide welfare for the broken families. If you day. Why don't you leave that task up to want to complain about food, talk to some people like The Talking Head? Notre Dame senior citizens on fixed incomes who use dog may not be perfect, but ... " ' food as a main course. And if you t}:l.ink your ] .C. "Let me guess, It's better than a state health care is bad, try finding a doctor in school?'' Appalachia who has time to treat a bruised pinky finger.. If you thing your athletic Dan Bell department gets too much trumey, try compet­MikeBusk ing with the Defense Department for funds. Ron Haynes


• You may. think you have a bureaucracy here, ] udWeiksnar but you should let me introduce ofOU to-
On Being Number One 
In the course of the next few one who viewed du Lac with any 
days, being a senior will not be optimism. 
easy for me. I will leave a lot I suppose my biggest question 
here at N.D., and even my was what is it about Notre 
cynical contemporaries who will Dame that actually makes us 
more than likely dismiss this Number One. Is it just the 
writin~ as just another Domer's sports? Well, partially,. I be­
rambhngs and musing about lieve the reputation the Univer­
the "womb" of du Lac will sity has because of sports is a 
admit about the same. big part of being the best in 
I am one of those people who everything. It must be more, 
grew up virtually weaned on though•. because we don't at­
Notre Dame. Dad, a member of ways wm. 
the class of 1951, once threat-There must be something so 
ened nie with no television very special that it transcends 
when I was three years old if I the conflicts which anse be­
didn't sing the fight song (I had ~-Cause of parietals, refrigerator 
known it since I was two). But fees, and whether or not sex 
other than that one attempt at exists at Notre Dame. It seems 
making me "shake down the that, despite the twenty-eight 
thunder,'' I wasn't forced to year difference between our 
come here. It was rather a commencements, my father 
surprise to him when I would and I think very much alike. 
apply to Notre Dame. From that Right after the Southern Cal 
moment, I was a part of this game last November, he was 
place. wondering about the same 
During my first year here, I thing I was. He wrote some­learned what it is to belong to thing for me he thought every­the Notre Dame student body. I one should read, and I think so cheered and yelled watching too. So, especially for those who the Sugar Bowl game in 1974, ·think that nothing good can and when we snapped the ever come from Notre Dame, UCLA 88-game winning streak and also for the Seniors of 1979, a few months later. I almost here is another view of Number cried when Ara left in 1975. One. When I was a freshman and 
On Being Number One Michigan State beat us for my 

I was being cut by mentalfirst loss as a student, I almost swords,cried. When we beat USC on Nowhere to turn.

the way to the National Champ­But She kept me going,ionships, I never felt better 10 Living, fig-hting. 
my life. Until we beat Houston From the ume I met Her, She'sthis year, that is. 
Been by my side.

At some point during all this Though feeling rotten,emotionalim, I asked myself the I wasn't forgottenquestion--what was it exactly By the Lady from Lourdesthat makes me feel this way? Every day the question g-rew more disturbing, espeCially I've done very little for Her,when I read the editonal page Given none og myself to Her.
of The Observer and saw that 
The cock . has crowed manythe issues presented there were not being resolved. I mentioned umes more than thrice, andto several people that I never at times I've h_urr the Lady,saw anything good bein~ writ­Hurt her Son. 

ten about Notre Dame 10 The But She never left me,Observer or anywhere else On_ I guess that makes mecampus. But their reflections Number One only made me feel worse be­Stephen Tripodi cause I seemed to be the only 
i : 
he Observer Thursday, May 17, 1979-page 7 
For 1978-79 
Top Ten Campus Stories 
1 
Housing shortage 
A lottery to move a number of juniors off-campus next year was announced by Housing Director Edmund Price as a virrual certainty last November. In the final analysis, no lottery was held because of the number of students who answered Price's requests to move off before the lottery was held. However, prior to the final announcement of no lottery, a number of demonstrations were staged and conferences with University officials held to protest the action and discuss possible alterna­tives. 
2
Alcohol directive 
When Dean of Srudents, James Roemer, issued a directive last fall banning the use of alcohol everywhere on campus except private rooms, a furor was raised concerning srudent rights. A students rights forum was held in Washin~ton Hall, where much discussion but little actton resulted. An Ad Hoc committee of the Hall Presidents Council prepared a statement listing issues they believed students were most concerned with. The list was discussed by theCampus Life Council, however when the directive was not stringently enforced the issue died. 
3 
Abolition ofparietals 
After the disappointment of the students rights issue, residents of Carroll Hall decided to take matters into their own hands by abolishing parietals in their residence. In a somewhat apathetic response, other halls agreed to join the effort. What resulted was a proposal byJudicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo to reduce the parietals violation to a hall offense. In a final appeal to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, the proposal was 
re)ected. 
4 
Record Store 
After a denial from Vice-president for Student Affairs, Fr. John Van Wolvlear, to open a student run record store in LaFortune Student Center, Student Union held a record sale which handled over $10,000 worth of business. Following the tremendous response, Student Union director Bill Roche presented another proposal, calling for a non-inventory operation which continually takes and fills orders. The new record store is scheduled to begin operation next fall. 
\ 

5 
Fires 
A series of five fires on the Notre Dame campus over October break cost the University thousands of dollars and resulted in the resignation of two ND Security officers who reported four of the five fires. The blazes claimed the boatliou&e and other old buildings, none of which were occupied. The University ran a series of polygraph rests on possible suspects. The two officers who resigned did not take the tess;;. No charges were pressed in the incidents. 

~.dlrectlft dr•-ruponM
,...,-·=--i.._.--::..::---· 
E~~~~iL·,... 
[_.~Th~_Q~-~~rver.. J 



~The Observer 
'"&ionlst-snlper strikes over break 

6 
Camarda shooting 
Notre Dame senior Joseph Camarda was shot and severely wounded on Monday, Dec. 11, at his Corby Street residence. He was rushed to St. Joseph's Hospital for treatment of internal injuries, where he remained for several weeks before returning to his home in Virginia. A suspect was apprehended in the 
shooting, but the incident fueled protests about a housing lottery.  student's  
Nestles boycott  7  

On Tuesday,Feb 27, the Notre Dame srudent body voted to boycott Nestles and its subsidi­aries' products to protest alleged unethical markettng practices by Nestle, S.A. in underdeveloped countries. The boycott is the result of a year-long effort by the ND/SMC World Hunger Coalition, which sponsored the boycott. The Coalition published articles against the company and mvited Nestles to answere the charges in forums and in print. Approximately 72 percent of the srudent body voted in favor of the boycott. ­
8 
Title IX 

Three hundred National Collegiate Athletic Association Schools have hired a Washington lobbying firm to fight the regulations of Title 
IX. The action follows the release of an interpretation of Title IX by Joseph Califano, secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. Title IX was contained in an educational amendment which was issued in 1972. 




9
Danehy case· 
In ruling against Notre Dame professor James Danehy, Starke County Circuit Court Judge Marvin McLaughlin decided that the University' 'Has a uniform policy for ending its contracts but has no uniform/olicy re~arding retirement.'' Danehy had file suit agatnst the University charging that Notre Dame has an arbitrary policy regarding retirement. At the end of the semester, Danehy had not yet made a d~~ision concerning possible appeal of the dectston. 


10
Groundskeepers 
On Oct. 10,1977, 21 groundskeepers attemp­ted to unionize with Teamsters Local 364. The University announced its intentions to fire the groundskeepers. University action resulted in charges of unfair labor practices and a hearing before the National Labor Relations Board. During the:-17 month debate, two additional charges were Ievie~ against the University. Finally the NLRB ruled to · dismiss the Teamster's petition to represent the grounds­keepers as a separate bargaining unit. 

--·----J, 
-~............,.,, 


The Observer 

Board allocates funds for Freshmen orientation 
by Rosemary Mills committee's budget is allocated 
Editor-in-Chief to pay for printing and mailing
orientation guides and letters of 
The Board of Commissioners information for incoming fresh­met on May 7 to review An men. Tostal and discuss appropria-The Board also approved a tions of funds requested by the request for funds totalling $200 Off-Campus Commission and from the Off-Campus Council. the Freshman Orientation Com-The Council plans to use these mittee. funds to print a handbook for 
A budget of $3904 was ap-off-campus students. proved for the Freshman and In reviewing the 1979 An Transfer Orientation Commit-Tostal, the Board found that the tee. The committee's total , committee had spent $2,000 budget equals $5254 with Stu-· over their budget. An Tostal dent Acttvlties contributing chairman Paul Callahan attribu­$1500 of these funds. An :c:d the deficit to losses incurred additional $150 was appropria-by the carnival. On two nights, ted for the cost of a picnic for the carnival, an important transfer students. source of income during the 
The funds were requisitioned 1978 An Tostal, was forced to by the Freshman and Transfer close due' to inclement weather. _Orientation programs. Each In other business, the Board year the committees sponsor nominated members of the dances and picnics for the new faculty and staff to be placed on students. the Judicial Review Board. 
In addition the Freshman The six faculty nominees are Committee is responsible for Angie R. Chamblee(Freshman the planning of Carney,_ the_ Year of Studies), Kenneth E. outdoor festival and dmner Goodpaster (Philosophy), Rich­which will be held onSeptember ard J. Hunter (Business Admin­9, 1979. A large portion of the · [continued on page 4] 
Thursday, May 17, 1979 -page 8 


from! 

ROCCOS men's hairstyling t comfortable price 531 N. ffilchlgan 233-4957 
Notre Dame students-
Take advantage of our special 5% student discount on our extensive line of health 

IIHeallh Food oeor.ll 
foods at the 
SEARS HEALTH FOOD STORE 
located in the University Park Mall 
increase m the number of vehicles, our parking facilities are 
(continued from page 4]
very limited near the dormitories. We ask that you unload • you vehicle and move it to one of the perimeter lots which are 
talking about making the coll­north of Planner and Grace Halls, known as Stepan Center ege of business simply a branchparking lot; south of the Engineerin~ Building; east of of the college of Arts &Memorial Library; sout of the Athlettc and Convocation & Letters,'' he said. 
Center; and the entire area around the Notre Dame stadium. 
Thompson also discussed theThere is also parking east of the Center for Continuing sharpening of the student-ad­Education and the large field south of the University Club. 
ministration conflict at NotreThis particular parking area, known as the Green Field, may Dame, including the value dif­be entered at the intersection of Notre Dame avenue and ferences between the two sides.
Angela Boulevard. 
pson, is seing some of his students after thay have begun their careers. 'At a philosophy meeting,' he related, 'two former students came up to me and told me that they were teaching now because of cour­ses that I taught them. It's really gratifying to hear things like that. ' · 
Two of Thompson's favorite concers as an assistant dean were the pre-professional and collegiate seminar programs. The seminar program, which Thompson had directed for the last four years, has been sub­stantially altered. 'I'm not real­ly happy to see it go,' he remarked. 

Thompson emphasized that the University has provided him with an interesting center from which to do things in the community. 'I was chatrman of a draft board for twenty years,' he noted, 'because they needed someone who could respond to student's problems. There are certain satisfactions from know­ing that you could help a student in need.' 
Thompson does not know yet if he will miss his dean status. He said that he will keep busy with his renewed teachmg duties, which he knows will take a lot of preparation. 'Also, we have a fifteen year-old son,' he noted, 'so I'll be around the commun­ity a good deal.' 
·r­.··.". ·)~~~ :· ...:.. j,; ........ ,'"'} ·'J c.'·-'".t.t·l!i!a..' 
... tl a.•• to tl • ' • a t • I t • I .... t , .&• . ._..&.:J....a. 

ND Commencement info 
INFORMATION CENTER: The Bus Shelter will be staffed to serve as an Information Center from 3 pm to 9 pm, Friday May 18, from 8 am to 9 pm on Saturday, May 19; from 8 am to 5 pm on Sunday, May 20. General information, location of dormitories, housing directory, lost and found, maps, copi~s of the Commencement Programs, as well as additional copies of the General PrograQl will be available. 
ROOM INFORMATION SERVICE FOR CAMPUS RESI, DENCE HALLS: This is located in the Center for Continuing Education. It will be open during the same hours as the Information Center. Telephone number is 283-7640. 
OFF-CAMPUS BUS SERVICES: Buses leave for downtown every 30 minutes from the circle at the library and the circle at the main entrance to the campus. More detailed information will be available at the Information Center at the Bus Shelter. 
PARKING: If you are going to be a resident on campus during the Commencement weekend, we request that you use the parking lots designated below. Because of the 
SMC Commencement schedules 
Thursday, May 17 

10:30 a.m., MASS FOR 1HE SENIOR CLASS LeMans Chapel 
11:30 a.m., ALUMNAE SENIOR BRUNCH, College Dining Hall 8:30p.m., "AMPHYTRION '79", O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday May 18 
4:30p.m., BACCALAUREATE MASS The Court of LeMans Hall 
9:00 p.m. to 12 midnight, GRADUATION PARTY Angela Athletic Facility 
Saturday, May 19 

10:30 a.m., COMMENCEMENT, The Court ofLeMans Hall 
, , , Thompson 
Survey ranks 
Hesburgh first 

University President Fr. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh was ranked the_ most influential person in religion and the second most influencial in education in U.S. News and World Report's sixth annual csurvey of the nation's leadership. 
Hesburgh, in his 27th year as president of Notre Dame, head­ed a ranking of influential persons in the field of religion that included Billy Graham; William P. Thompson, head of the national Council of Chur­ches; Terence Cardinal Cooke of New York City, and Univer­sity of Chicago Divinity Profes­sor Martin Marty. Hesburgh was ranked . second to Graham in last year's survey. 
'It's not simply the students against the administration,' he remarked. 'I think it's in part the students against the admin­istration and parents. The par­ents of students have a strong intereS'. ~u retaining the more traditional values, and they will support the admin­istration in its decisions.' 
Thompson does not believe that the student-administration conflict will get worse with next generations of students. 'I 
don't see the issue as comin~ to a head,' he stated. 'I think 1t will ju~t simmer over the years' 
The dean-emeritus called his stay at the University 'thirty one l'leasant years.' He also ment10ned that he had taught at two other ~olleges prior to coming to Notre Dame. 'In general, the attitudes and co­operation at Notre Dame have been much healthier than at the other schools,' he said .. 
The most rewarding aspec; of his work, according to Thorn­


-
The Observer 'Thursday, May 17, 1979 -page 9 
• • • Devine 


[continued from page 12] 
six seconds in one freshmen game, and the reason he dido' t play wasn't because he was hurt. That's very unusual when you have a guy on a full scholar­ship and don't play him. It has to be other reasons, so I tried to shut my mind completely to what anyone had done before and start fresh, and I am glad I did, because we ended up playing some kids like Joe that, at that point, hadn't given any indication of fitting m future plans. 
Q.--Do you think ND changed you at all? 
A.--Only for the better. Yes, I think it's made a better man out of me, I hope it has. My associations with the players and coaches and the student body has been great. 
Much has been said about me being a sensitive person, and I really don't think m all fairness that I'm that sensitive about myself. I'm very sensitive to other people's feelin~s. I have always been sensittve as a coach, but this is the first time as a coach that I've ever had anything to do with minority groups. As an Irish Catholic, I had always been the minority. When I became coach I started working with other minorities. I was always sensitive as a coach to black players, much more than people realize. In 
1958 they wouldn't feed our black players after a game with Texas A & M and I wasn't aware of this, and I sat on the bus and cried. Then a great thing happened; our white players came out without eatmg. 
I thmk since being here at Notre Dame I've become more socially conscious of a lot of things. I'm reevaluating all the things that I was taught. I don't know if it wouldn't have been better when I was in school if we were taught less about diagramming sentences arid more about ''Love Thy Neigh­bor," which we never seemed to taught enough of. Today I look back and feel I wasn't taught enough about social awareness. 
Q.-·What do you like the most about Notre Dame? 
A. --It is very difficult to put one thing ahead of another. I d6n't want to leave. I would feel a very deep, deep loss if I had to,leave the campus or not coach this team next year. It would be a real emptmess. I like to walk across campus and speak to kids . They're really proud of the team and this school. I talk to seniors who thank me and I remind them there's been some disappoint­ments, and they say I shouldn't, remember them, and maybe 
they are right. That type of intimacy I don't think exists on many other campuses. It's hard to describe all these little things Jou find here you would not fin on a campus of 45,000. 
Q. ·-Do you feel more secure and relaxed now, and has there been a change in your person­ality? 
A.--1 don't notice it, but it 
.. Umpires
• 

(continued from page 12] 
Association, and National League umpire Paul Runge, vice !;'resident, will conduct the meettng. 
During the umpires' work stoppage, the major leagues \S!Ied ~lot -aoo minor. lcsagli~ .... umpires to work in their places. 
must be that I'm more relaxed. When that many people notice, it must be true. People tell me I'm more like I used to be before Green Bay. The change occured without me noticing it. I became very guarded about what I said because a lot of what I said was misinterpreted, not necessarily misquoted. I answered questions slowly, made friends slower. I think that carried over to here. Working with these kids in this situation allowed me to return to normal. I didn't know I was going through this, but looking back it becomes obvious. 
I was always very serious about my job and always very intense. I'm a little bit of a worry-wart, but only because I see a team like Penn State lose a game because they have twelve guys on the field. I see a team lose a game on a fumble. Part of being an intense person is being a fundamentahst, so that hasn't changed, but I had a guard up for a period of years, and I guess I dropped it. 
Q. --Notre Dame's student body is often referred to as the greatest in the world. But vocai fans can yell when things go good or bad. Have the fans ever disappointed you? 
A.--No, 1 don't thmk so. t•ans are a little like newspaper people. I can like a newspaper guy even though I don't like what he writes. I still can respect that person and be friends, and fans are the same way. I can still love them and like them and respect them even though they don't always react the way you'd like them to. 
I think kids are changing a little, but I don't think the spirit is changing. When we played Tennesse and took the field, it seemed like they were the home team in our stadium, but we eventually go the support we needed when the game started. 
Q.--Someone once said Notre Dame fans are spoiled. Notre Dame fans range from the subway alumni to students on campus. How do you react to that statement? 
A.--I think the fan in Hoboken, New Jersey, is spoiled but the ones on campus recognize that our program is changmg. Our 
..~ 

Dan Devine delivers a little ''constructive critr'cism '' concern­ing _th_e decision of one of the officials. [photo by Doug Chnsttan.] 
Our schedule is improved and record. All of this is recognized that is going to effect your won by the Administration and per­
and lost record. The subway meates to the student body, but fans don't know that we recruit the fans in Hoboken don't know with eight coaches, while most. all that. schools work around the rules The people here see that the and recruit with ten. That kids are overachieving at times 
and achieving at other times.

effects your won and los! 
[continued on page 10] 


-The Observer -Sports Thursday, May 17, 1979-page 10 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 26 Train 1 Burlap section source 29 lsin 

6 Nautical dreamland cry 33 President 10 Indian 34 Sensational 
prince 'SI Washington 14 Asian ox and­16 Western 38 Foodfish 
farm 39 -instant 16 Asian river (momentar­17 Wastrel ily) 19 Ivy, e.g. 40 Distance 20 Remain unit 
longer 41 Copycat 21 Precipita­42 Up 

ting 43 Shrink 23 Reticent 44 Usa a sieve one 46 Distant 
26 Oneoftwo past 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 

58 Family lady &:;;~~~~~;;;:::;;;;:;~~~ 18 Certain 60 Attheage 4/16/79 games of: abbr. 
©1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
48 Mildoath 22 Feral 50 Singing 24 Greek syllables island 51 Arthurian 26 Spanish musical houses 54 Ukelofty 2:7 Take up mountains 28 Haying 58 Famous gift machine 
givers 30 "My Fair 59 Wastrel Lady" 61 Done 31 Son of Eber 62 "-Onegin" 32 .._evil" 63 Free-world 35 Actress 
alliance Mary 64 Bare 36 Assailed 66 Onedge 39 Wimbledon 66 Hardy girl conclusion 
40 Emulated 
DOWN a wastrel 1 Ring bloWt 42 To laugh: Fr. 2 One, e.g. 43 Wooded 3 Forum robe country 4 -, easy go 45 look up to 5 Action 47 Old woman 
centers 49 Brimless 6 -Beethoven hat 7 Conjunc-51 Spelunker's 
tions spot 8 Perfume 52 Ripening 9 -the towel machine 
(gives up) 53 Harbor 10 Valley boats 11 ldi 55 Dies­12 Swiss psy-56 Profits 
chiatrist 57 Love deity 
Noddy 
• • • Irish 
[continued from page 12] _ 
later. The injury makes him a question mark for the fall, and makes sophomore Pete Buchanan a virtual shoo-in for the starting fullback spot. 

Devine has little need to worry about his -haliback situation, however. Possible Heisman candidate Vagas Ferguson gained 51 yards in 10 carries, · 
and was used just enough so as to avoid injury. Jim Stone, also on the Green squad, was the game's top rusher with 90 yards 10 15 attempts. 
Senior tight end Kevin Hart, with his Heisman Trophy­winning father, Leon, watching from die press box, was voted the game's most valuable offen­sive player. His ten-yard touchdown pass from Lisch opened the scoring. 
Defensive coordinator Joe Y onto had to be pleased with both teams' efforts. Junior Bill Doran, currently second on the depth-chart at free safety behind sophomore Steve Cichy, won the defensive MVP award. While Doran had seven tackles for the white unit, the award could have gone to a number of players.
"1 think we have every reason to look forward to another good 
.. 
. . . Devine 

[continued from page 9] Notre Dame. Our record 
against top competition provesThe fans' reaction after the we are human here. We've lost Southern Cal game was great and we've lost some big games and after we were 0-2 this year, and lost by big scores. All of the fan reaction here was much us. And still I don't think our better than it would have been fans could be any better after at most schools. You have to being accustomed to such sue­remember that these fans are cess. used to winning. Q.--Would you say that the 
Getting off the subject a bit1 adjustment to Notre Dame has I must say in all honesty, ana been touf5h for you? . this goes back to the beginning A.--Yes, the early part was. of Notre Dame football, we That's the time I would some­haven't always won when we times rather forget. It's hard to played tough competition. By . explain to people what that fir~t the same token, ND could play · year was like, because you can t 11 patsies and still have a damn really upderstand it if you tough season, because of the weren't there. way those schools get up for I haven't been here long 
by Jim Canavan 
... Golfers 
the Big Ten Tournament, which 

[continued from page 12] 
~ight give them an edge for the rational. Notre Dame fired a 
btd. Irish coach Noel O'Sullivan36-hole team score of 742, six believes that ''it would be astrokes behind second place super compliment to the golfIndiana (736). Ohio State was program if Notre Dame wasalone at the top with a score of selected by the selection com­717­mittee to represent District 4 atDave Knee's total of 144 was the NCAA's."

tops for the Irish, good enough In addition to the three teams, for sixth place out of 15o four individuals from District 4golfers. 
will be selected for the NCAAs. 

Now the Irish await a deci­"If we don't go as a team, I'm sion about a bid to the NCAA sure they' 11 select one of the Tournament, to be held at individuals, be it Tim Saurs or Wake Forest University on May Dave Knee," Sullivan added. 23-26. It looks as thou~h the "It was the best golf team, it one remaining bid in this area _ had the best individuals, and it (District 4) will be given to was the best season that I have 
either Notre Dame or Indiana. ever coached," Sullivan con­The Hoosiers placed second in cluded . 
enough to say that any parti­cular game we played bothers me. I don't hear fan reaction often because I am so darn low after we lose. I can remember saying after playing a poor game 10 Green Bay that if I was a fan I would have booed louder. Sometimes I react to fan criticism as if we deserved it. But I like it to come for a legitimate reason. 
Q.--What was it like following 
Lombardi andthen Parseghian? 
Was there as much pressure as 
it was built up to be? 
r
A.--No. Actually between Lombardi and myself there was another coach. It really wasn't that much pressure. Maybe it 'ihould have been there, but it wasn't. My problem at Green Bay was very simple. I inher­ited a very old team that was last in every statistic. They were an old, losing team that had nothing. I would rather have followed right after Lorn­. bardi when they were three ears younger. I don't care who follow, it doesn't make any difference. What does make a 
difference is what you inherit. 
Q.--Is the pressure what JOU expectedandis it different from what you experienced before? 
A.--It is aifferent is some resp-ects. In one of the few conversations I had with Coach Parseghian while he was recommending some ofhis staff to me and going over person­nel, I remember him saying, "Until you sit in this chair, you don't know the pressures of the job." And the only people that do know and understand the pressur~ are the reople that have sat in this chair. 
Q.--When Parseghian made that comment, you had been coaching for 16 years in both the college andpro ranks. Was he insinuating that the pressure was so much greater liere than anywhere else you had been? 
A.--Yes, I think so. He also meant that there is a tremen­dous responsiblity that goes with the chair along with that pressure. So many people look at Notre Dame. 
Q.--bl conclusion, would you say after four years that your iob is changing? 
A.--No, I aon't think so. It's always going to be the same Notre Dame to me. 

season," said Devine. nBut we'll really be tested those first three weeks. 
''By playing Michigan, at Michigan, we'll be at a disad­vantage. They open a week earlier than we do, so they'll not only have their 29 allotted pre-season practices, but they'll have one more week of practice--let alone one actual game of experience.'' 
''We open wtth probably the best three · teams in the Big Ten," adds Devine. "But I would like to think we'll be ready to hold our own with any of those teams. " 
Irish fans would like to think the same. 


~. 
-----~----~ 
I 


. 

Irish gridders look strong in annual Blue-Gold game 
by Paul Mullaney_ little more seriously, perhaps, Assistant Sports Edztor than past spring encounters. "We could have a half-dozen 
While most Notre Dame sophomores starting for us in spring football games seve~ely September,'' noted Devine, lack the one element_ t~at mtg~t now entering his fifth year as make them entertammg, thts Irish coach. "And we've got a spring's Blue-Gold game took a lot more young people who we change from the norm, as the saw Saturday that can play 15,797 observers will testify. football." 
But, more impovtantly to Irish Most eyes, nonetheless, were coaches, players, and diehards, on Rusty Lisch and Tim Koegel, the May 5th contest featured the two leading candidates good httting, good execution for this fall's quarterback and high-quality all-around per­position. 
formances--enough to tempor­Lisch, a fifth-year architecture arily silence even the most student who gained an extra severe Irish critics. year of eligibility by spending "I don't think that in my 20 the entire 1978 season on the vears of coaching I have seen sidelines watching Joe Montana in action, looked
~uch intensity and hitting in a 
spring game,'' smiled Irish especially sharp. 
The native of Belleville, IL,coach Dan Devine after the was accurate on 11 of his 16Green squad recorded a 30-0 aerial attempts, good for 106victory over the White team in yards and one touchdown.
the 49th annual affair. 

While Koegel's statistics were"The final score doesn't indi­not as impressive, the junior for cate the effort these kids put from Cincinnati, displayed hisout all the way through the final drop-back style effectively.
quarter " Devine added. "I 
Although only four of his 14felt before the game that we pass attempts were completed,would have a better football Irish receivers were responsibleteam than people expect in the 
fall--and the play today did for at least four imcompletions. Blue-Gold game. [photo by Doug Christian.] [continued on page 10]
Koegel helped lead tlie Green
nothing to change that 
squad to three scoring drivesfeeling." 
and 17 points.
Spring practice was ~specially "We have two superb quarter­
vital thts year, accordmg to the 
Utnpire's strike nears settletnent
backs in Lisch and Koegel--and
coaching staff. Holes had to be (Mike) Courey and (Greg)filled that were vacated by 12 Knafek have both proven they PHILADELPHIA (AP)--Major ment expected to be signed settlement.
graduating starters from the can play," noted Devine. league baseball umpires have Thursday in New York when It is expected they will receive
which
seventh-ranked squad "Rusty still has the edge in won substantial salary in­their representative, Ritchie their first assignments of the
closed the season by edging experience, which I think really creases, in-season vacations Phillips, is scheduled to meet season, and perhaps be on theHouston, 35-34, in the Cotton helps him. But we'll still wait and a boost in per diem and with American League Presi­job the next day.
Bowl. 

unttl next fall to see what travel expenses which should dent Lee MacPhail and National Jim Evans, and AmericanThe first three Irish opponents 
develops.'' end their work stoppage as League President Chub Fee­League umpire, said in Beau­this fall demand that Devine's 
Devine will also have to wait early as Saturday, The Asso­ney. mont, Texas, that he and hissquad be at top form come the until fall to see what develops ciated Press learned Wednes­A source told The Associated colleagues had been summoned opening kickoff. With road 
with fullback Dave Mitchell. day. Press the umpires have been to the Friday meeting in Phila­games at Michigan and Purdue The senior -from Phoenix, AZ_, The 52 umpires, who have directed to bring their equip­delphia. Ron Luciano of thebefore coming home to face suffered a knee injury which refused to work since before ment and their traveling bags American League, president of
Michigan State, the Irish 
required sw-gery three days spring training, willmeet here here for the Friday meeting the Major Leagues Umpirescoaches witnessed the action a [continued on page 10] Friday to announce an agree-when they will go over the [continued on page 9] 
Devine reflects onfouryears at ND 
Editor's note--Included in only seventeen to eighteen the film and didn't believe what this year's graduating class are y~ars old. Because of the I saw. Some very old football 
the first football players ever tremendous experience this players quit. I thought they had 
recruited by Dan Devine at group of kids has been exposed 
more J'ride than what they
Notre Dame. In this interview to, I think there's a little bit of 
showe on the film. It was a 
Editor significance that
with Sports Emeritus in the idea shock to me and it was a little 
Ray 0 'Bn'cm, Dryine reflects on they are going out with the bit that way when I looked at 
the past four years and his greatest comeback in Notre the film of the Southern Cal 
expen'cmces as head football Dame history. And I think they game in 1974. We got the coach ofthe Fighting Insh. deserve it because of the four 
momentum against them in the 
years of effort they put in. 
second half, and some of the 
Q. --Does the four-year mark in Q.--Has coaching at Notre guys didn't play very well or a college coach's career mean Dame been pretty much what· very hard, and again I was a anything special since all the you expected? little bit shocked. players on the team have been A.--I'd say no, but the next I was a little surprised that recruited by you? question you would ask is why of blamed
some them the
r 
A.--I'd say normally no, hasn't it been? It hasn't been coaches for their inability to I I because I came in with a exactly what I expected, but in make the team, but that't so 
' talented bunch already here. some respects it has. I didn't completely normal for anyFred Akers and Lou Holtz had expect some of the problems football player to do. Since the great successes in their first that came up in my first year introduction of the game, year. You become close to guys primarily, and I think I would nobody ever went off to college
quickly. I don't think I'll ever relate it a little to my disap­and didn't make it because they 
I --be closer to a guy than I was to pointment at Green Bay. weren't good enough. Thou­Ed Bauer. I didn't recruit Ed, When I talk about the '75 team sands and thousands of highbut I don't think you could be and I say "some of them" school football players have closer to a player, and we still I mean some of them. The first gone off to college and no·r are. I don't see Ed often, but squad meeting I had I was very made it, but it's always been there's a mutual respect. disappointed with the appear­that the coach didn't use them 
So normally no, but in this ance of some of the players. 
right or they got hurt and for 
case, yes, because of the tre­Some whose names were famil­some reason never made it mendous number of traumatic iar showed up with holes in 
back. 

experience these kids have their jeans. I expected a little I_n my al?proach to the_ squad, I gone through. They've gone more pride than that from some tned to m my own mmd start through four years and I think of them. Ed Bauer would show from scratch. If I hadn't, Joe they're very prepared for life up dressed fine, but I was Montana probably would not beca11se they have experienced disappointed in some. have gotten the opportunity 
a lot of ups and downs. When I was disappointed in some of that I gave him for first string,
they were freshmen, a lot of the films I looked at. When I because he certainly wasn't them contributed to the two relate it to Green Bay, I looked one of the players that the comebacks against North Caro­at one of their last films up coaches I retained recom­lina and Air Force, which were there, and they got beat badly mended highly. He only played back to back. Quite a number by the Chicago Bears, just an 
[continued on page 9]
of them started as freshmen. average ball club. I looked at 




