--~ 
. LectUfe -page· 3 


VOL. XIV, NO.9 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY· SEPTEMBER 7, 1979 
Police arrest Roemer charges students 
four students 


with I.D. falsification 
in bar raids 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
by Tom]ackman 1 
Senior StaffReporter A student who wished to remain anonymoustold The Observer yesterday that 35 Notre Dame students were summoned yesterday afternoon to Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer's office for falsifying 
Four Notre Dame students d~ta on their IJ? cards. ~e s~dents allegedly altered thehave been arrested in the last bmhdates on thetr advance retstrauon computer cards distributed week by the Special Operations 
at the end of last semester
Division of the South Bend In order to have the~ ages read 21, students used two methods:Police Department on charges Some altered the anginal cards by key-punching the desiredof possession of alcohol by a birthdates, then plugging the holes of the actual dates. Theminor. employees of "The sec~n~ method involved ovtai~ing new cards at the EngineeringGoose's Nest" and "Corby's" Buddtng and re-punchtng all the information. 
were also arrested and charged However, when all.the new information was printed, thewith selling alcohol to a minor. 
students' names appeared on top of the column heads. Over theAlthough there have been summer monthes, the Registrar's office noted the difference and many rumors to the contrary, pr<?ceeded tC? verify every student's birth date by hand.
only one "raid" of a local bar Rtchard Sulhvan, the Un~vers~ty ReEistrar, declined ~o commenthas taken place this year, at on whether or not the verification of computer cards 1s a routineCorby's last Friday night. The procedure.
three 20-year-old seniors ar­The 3 5 students' cards that were found to be altered were pulledrested were found with false 
and brought to the attention of Dean Roemer.
identification, and a Corby's At the meeting yesterday, Roemer presented the students with bartender was also charged. 
two options. Each student could pay a $50 fine byA doorman for Corby's com­] an1:1ary 15 parually intended to cover the expense incurred by the mented that it was the first time Regtstr~'s offic_e. No record of the incident would appear on thein several years that arrests had student transcnpt nor would the student's parentds be contacted taken place there. "Sometimes However, if the student chose to contest the fine, he would have t~I see 75 to 100 fake IDs per plea? ~is c~se at a University hearins-composed of faculty andnight, and most of them are admtmstrauon mem?ers. Confidentiality would no longer bepretty sloppy. It's a big assured. Roemer vanfied that unnamed student's report, and said problem.'' 
that the students have one week to make their decisions.
"The vice squad's probably One of the students involved who wished to remain annonymous just trying to set the tone for the commented? ''I admit th~t ~hat I did was not legitimate, but I feel semester," he added. "It the penalty 1s severe. Thts 1s the first time the University has fined might affect business because students for this offense. They are setting a precedent. In light of people over 21 may not like the not knowmg what the penalty would be, I thmk the punishment is hassle, but it should keep out 
too stiff."
underage drinkers." 
No guidelines presently appear in Du Lac for ID falsification.
Earlier last week, another Professor Steven T. Katz lectured on the holocaust which However, Roemer commented, "There is a University rule in Dusenior was arrested in the 
destroyed six million jews. See story on page 3. [Photo by [contunued on.page BJ
carry-out section, not the bar 
Beth Prezio] 
portion of Goose's. A Goose's employee was also arrested in the incident, although a spokes­man for Goose's said that the student was ''just two months away from his 21st birthday.'' 


David churns through New Etigland
the spokesman noted that the arrests were probably the result 
(AP) -1fopical storm David attributed to the one-time hurri­mph along the coast. dumped more torrential rainsof ''pressure from the North­churned through the urban cane that killed more than 1,100 · Gale warnings were up for on the already saturated Dom­east Nei~hborhood Council. 
inican Republic, while Gloria
northeast and into the New people in the Caribbean and left north of the Merrimack River in 
They don t like all the noise and at least 16 dead along the Massachusetts to Eastport, Me. whipped into a full-fledgedlitter, so they call in the England area yesterday with storm off the western coast of
police.'' high winds and torrential rains, Atlantic coast of the United And hurricane watchers had In response to a popular knocking out electrical power States. their eye on two other storms Mrica. 
for two million persons, send­David was centered last night brewing in the Atlantic, includ­David's tree-felling winds,campus rumor that Goose's will near Burlington, VT, and ing the newly christedned tropi . flood-building rains and spinoff soon close, the spokesman said, ing hundreds fleeing and for­
cing many schools to close. moving northeast at about 3 5 cal storm Gloria. tornados forced the evacuation 
[continued on page 9] 
At least six deaths have been mph with sustained winds of 4'> Tropical "storm Frederic of about 1,000 residents of 
Maryland and Delaware. 
·-­
-----.. --­
More than 300,000 homes and offices in New Jersey lostNo plans to appeal power. A spokesman for Balti­more Gas & Electric Co. said about 140,000 Maryland cust­
Danehy loses Indiana court ruling 
omers were without power at least temporarily, and hun­by Marty Mosby this ~ar," he said. He a~ded got a chance to me~t left last privilege of office facilities on dreds of thousands of othersthat if he could have recetved year. I don't really have any campus. 
were cut off in southeastern 
fin~ci~ support from an or-contact with the students any-Thou h h al . h ffi · ~ew York and southwestern
gamzatton such as the Ameri-more and that's unfortunate." Chi g e so as an~ teem
Fifty years ago this week, Connecticut.
can Civil Liberties Union of the "I don't want to fight the caffi, Danehy ~se~ hts cam­
James Danehy arrived on the 0 Winds up to 53 mph . socked 
American Association of Re-battle over again, but Notre rus ~ce t~e daJontyhof the
Notre Dame campus as a mem· New York City, uprooting trees, 
tired Persons, he would have Dame does not have a manda-un~ pnmarftYlihue to t e con-
her of the freshman class. Last ripping down power lines and
been willing to atpeal. tory retirement policy, it has a veh~tehncf:e .01. rha_ry sourcehs
April, as professor emeritus of · d h d . w tc act ltate ts researc snarling transportation. 
chemistry, he lost in an Indiana He seems satts 1e , owever, man atory loss of tenure poh-rk 1 A worker in a Brooklyn plast· 
to .have accomplished one major cy," concluded Danehy. wo as consu tam.
court rultng on james P. Dane­ics factory, Gregory Candela,
thmg he set out to do. An energetic Danehy de-He no longer has any official
hy vs. University ofNotre Dame 48, bled to death when a gust of
''I wanted to challenge the dared, ''No one can retire a ·connection with the University; 
duLac. wind smashed a window and
system," Danehy said. man--it's not that kind of verb. however, he is still contributing 
Danehy filed the suit after the falling glass severed arteries in 
But Danehy still feels close to They can only terminate his to the. Notre Dame community
Universtty forced him ·to retire his leg. 
the University and its students. employment. One must retire in a very real sense. "I still
from teaching when h~·turned The body of a girl who
"I don't want to get maw-oneself." have my hand in on campus via 
65 in 1977. He charged that the appeared to be 11 or 12 years
kish," he said, "but I do fed He said that he would not give 'WSND," he said.
University administration's re­old was pulled from waters of 
tirement policy is ''arbitrary'' very much attached to Notre up on this conviction. ''I am not Last year Danehy ·got his the Rahway River near Wood­
Dame. I appreciate the kind of retired and I have not been license to be a radio announcer.
because several members ofthe bridge, NJ . Still missing in the 
faculty continue in full-time job which allows me to spend so retired.'' He volunteers eight hours per flood-swollen stream were a 
employment of the University much time on the campus." Danehy is still very active. He wee~ prograrnmmg classtcal boy about the same age and a after reaching the age of 65. "I used to enjoy very much is employed full-time with a mustc, and conducts a three­
policeman who had tried to save 
Danehy does not plan to visiting with the students," he consulting ftrm out of Chicago. hour show every Sunday morn­them.continued, "but the last stu-As an emeritus member of the ing. "Music is the ftrst love of
ar.peal the verdict. [continued on page 10]
dents whom I taught at all and faculty he has the traditional ·ny life," he said.
'It cost me a bundle to br~g it 


~---------------------~--...--­

ewsinbri~.

. , -. -~ 

Friday, September 7, 1979-page 2 
Concerning alcohol 
Chrysler sees largest loss in U.S. corporate history 
DETROIT (AP) -Chrysler Corp. said yesterday it expect!>·

~ 
to lose more than $700 million this year -more than any other 

U. S. company has ever lost in one year. "Recent press~ stories have speculated that Chrysler's 1979 loss could reach 
$600 million to $700 million,'' Chrysler said in a statement.' The worst loss ever posted by an American company came in' ~ 1975, when Singer lost $451.9 million. Bethlehem Steel lost 
r 
$448.2 million in 19z7. The pre-tax loss normally could be reduced by tax credits, but Chrysler has exhausted its tax 

, ~ ' 
credits with previous losses, including the $204.6 million it · lost in 1978. 

, ' 

Weather
' 
,' 
,I Mostly cloudy and cool today. Highs in the low 70s. Clear and quite cool tonight. Lows in the mid 40s. Mostly sunny and cool tomorrow, with highs around 70. Sunday through ~ Tuesday will be dry with a slow warming trend throu~h the r period. Lows mostly in the upper 40~ and 50s. Highs m the
, 
70s Sunday warming to the 80s by Tuesday. 

Friday, September 7, 1979 
12:15 p.m. FILM "elie wiesel's jerusalem" satellite one, 242 O'SHAG \sponsor: educational media for faculty prevue. 
4:30p.m. COllOQUIUM "the heat equation associated with the neumann problem,'' prof. nancy staton, columbia u. 226 CCMB. sponsor: math dept. 
4:30p.m. CARNE¥79. picnic and carnival sponsored by student government. NORTH AND SOUTH QUAD. 
5:15 p.m. MASS AND SUPPER BULLA SHED. 
6p.m. PERFORMANCE, "southhold dance theatre," SOUTH QUAD IN FRONT OF ROCKNE MEMORIAL BLD. spoinsor: cultural arts commission--nd student union. 
7 p.m. FILM· "mai zetterling's 'stockholm" and "george plimpton's new york" (8p.m.) sponsor: education media for faculty preview. 
7 & 9:30p.m. FILM, "funny lady" ENGR. AUD. also sept. 8. admission $1. 
7:30 MEETING, college life, sponsor: campus crusade for christ. 
Saturday, September 8, 1979 
9 50 a.m. TENNIS, st. m~'s vs. depauw. ANGELA 
COURTS. 
1 p.m. MEETING SPIRITUAL COMMISSION MEETING (smcJ open to all students and faculty. STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE,_ REGINA BASEMENT. 
4 p.m. PICNIC, "dila picnic" sponsored: cila. LAWN NEXT TO HOLY CROSS HALL ND. 
7 p.m. FILM, "aashirvad (hin<li)" SPONSOR: india association ot nd UBRARY AODITORIUM.$1 for students 
(members)  $2  others.  
8p.m. FILM,  "second city" O'LAUGHUN AUD.  
Sunday,  September 9,  1979  

10:30 a.m.MASS, officially opening school year. rev. theodore m. hesburgh, principal celebrant and provost timothy o' meatal homilist. SACRED HEART CHURCH 
11 a.m. MASS, , CHURCH OF LORETTO 
2-3:30 p.m. RECEPTION, FATHER HESBURGH'Sreception for new faculty & spouses. CCE. 
2:00p.m. ADMJSSIONCEREMONY,KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS. jacket & tie requested. 
3 p.m. INDUCTION, LADIES OF COLUMBUS proper attire requested. 
7 p.m MEETING, wurld hunger coalition organized meeting speaker: F heshurgh sponsor world hunger coalition. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. 
7·9 p.m. ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
by Maribeth Moran StaffReporter 

No policy change is reported in 
the consumption of alcohol by 
minors on the grounds of Saint 
Mary's College, according to 
Sister Karol]ackowski, director 
of Residence Life and Housing. 
The SMC 1979-1980 Student 
Handbook states that: "Indi­
ana State Law prohibits those 
who are under 21 years of age 
from buying or consuming al­
coholic beverages. Therefore 
only those students who are 
over 21 years may use alcohol 
on the campus of Saint 
Mary's." 

Even with this permit senior 
students at SMC are not per­
mitted to have either room or 
section parties. There are 
designated areas within each 
hall where residents of the 
college and their guests may 
consume alcohol at social 
events. 

The areas set aside for this 
purpose include: the Saint 
Mary's clubhouse located by 
Holy Cross Hall, the Le Mans 
Tower party room, the student 
lounges in Regina, and the 
McCandless piano room. When 
holding parties in these rooms 
the host students must secure 
permission from the Director of 
Student Activities and insure 
that all guests are 21 or over. 

Jackowski stated that, while she believes over-<;onsumption of alcohol to be a problem among students, there 1s rarely a flagrant violation of the rule by minors on Saint Mary's campus. When questioned as to whether the rules of the 
U.W. starts fund-raising 

The United Way of St. Joseph County will kick off its annual fund-raising campaign with a family picnic Saturday at Potawatomi Park. The picnic will begin at 11 a.m., and the official opening of the campaign wUI take place at the band shell 
at 1 p.m. 

The Observer Night Editor: jim Rudd Ass't Night Editor: Margi~ Kruse Layout Staff: Rich Fisher, Tan'que Ansan, Sal Granata, Greg Hedges :Editorial Layout: Ellen Gor­man, Greg Hedges : Features Layout: Greg! Hedges Spons Layout: Paul Mullan­' ey, Gary Grassey Typists: Michelene Sartell, Carol shuback ,1Early Morning Typists: Ann Gales, CatTt'e Bn'tt1Day Editor: Patsy Campbell Copy Reader:Bruce Oakely Ad Layout: Chris Slatt , 'photographer: Beth Prezio  
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is published Monday through Friday ex­capt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per yur IS10 per semester) from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class p=a paid, Notre Dame, In· diana . The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

-
·.·~· ....;\ .-. ,'...; ................. :.· . .......... ,': .\• ..... ".·...... ·'··· .~.-, ................ : ·,•. ···:; -.·~: -=·=· .:.• ,.•.,. .~;~·(-*· -:~· ·...:.~ ·~.
•.•..•.•j·..•.••.••.J~.J•_ .... , •• -.:"'•. ,. •• -. .... , ••• ,j ...... ,. ... ... . . .. .. .... . • 
SMC reports no policy charige 
college are adequately policed, ] ackowski said there is no continuous effort to search for and punish offenders. 
Saint Mary's has both an alcohol education council and a program dealing with alcohol abuse. The alcohol education council's purpose is to set up alcohol education programs and bring in speakers to deal with the problems of both addiction and abuse. The council is made 
up of hall presidents, resident assistants and representatives from the faculty, the admini­stration, and campus ministry. Last year Saint Mary's Stu· dent Government stated a so­cial club known as the 21 Club in the basement of the SMC dining hall. Reportedly, the club was extremely po.Pular and doing a very good busmess as it not only served liquor, but had food and entertainment as well. 
an 
Sunday Masses 
at 

C8"JP.US
miniStry Sacred Heart Church 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday "-Rev. James Rigert, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
I
• _}: 15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Th~odore Hesbur h, C.S.C . 

WSNDSPORTS 
Join Paul Stauder and Frank LaGrotta this Sunday night at nine p.m. for the talk show "~feaking o(S~orts" on AM 64. This week's show wil feature aive phone conversation with head football coach Dan Devine. As always, two pizzas will be ~ive away as pnzes for the WSND spons trivia qwz. "SReaking of Sports" is brought to you by the Sound oom and Noble Romans. 
Direct /)idlllond !nJ{Jo!"lers 
FOX'S 
]ezoelers ~~hzcr 1917 
Special l )o/o l)iscount nn ALL l\lerchandise to l\ntre Dame and Saint l\1ary's Students. 
To\\11 ;,u)d (;,untr\',Concord ami Lni\cro.,it\ Park \J.tll Opl'n Daih 10-9 
~~Jl:ruwD~ lJtrTia MASS followed by
supper 
every_

FRIDAY 
at the 

~ ,t I,," . ...... ·•• t.t' L•:• ~ .. ·:·­
~· 
Friday, Septem~f 7, 1979 -··page 3
The Observer 
Katz lectures on holocaust 
by Kathryn Casey 
Professor Steven T. Katz, chairman of the Department of Religious Studies at Dartmouth University, told a crowd of about 225 in the Memorial Library last night that he has "become an expen on killings" as a result of his studies concerning the holocaust which destroyed six million ] ews in Europe between 1941 and 1945. 
Katz observed that ] ews have suffered many tragedies over the last 2,000 years. He said that while ] ewish tradition it­self has not been successfully challenged, there were never­theless unigue elements in­volved in Hitler's anti-Semitic crusade. 
Katz explained that the pri­mary oddrty in the slaughter of the Jews rests on the fact that Hitfer intended genocide, which Katz defined as the "intent to destroy an entire people or an entire nation.'' He cited such massive killings as those of the Armenians in World War I and of the native American Indians as instances in which the intent was not genocide, but a desire to make space for those in power. 
"Hitler viewed the world as basically a spiritual struggle,'' Katz sard. "He saw himself as doing God's work by destroying the forces of darkness." 
Accordins to Katz, while Nazi anti-Semiusm has its basis' in Christian attitudes and the "mythic image of the ] ew as devil,'' it is unique in that it is founded in racial rather than religious discrimination. 

Begin flys home happy with evergrowing friendship 
TEL AVlV, Israel (AP) ­Egyptian President Anwar Sad­at flew home Thursday after a summit with Prime Minister Menachem Begin, happy with "the ever-growing friendship" between the Egyptians and Israelis but urging quick pro­gress on the Palestinian issue. 
Shortly after Sadat's plane left Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion Airport, the Israeli military command announced that an army patrol had intercepted a band of Arab terrorists slipping across the Jordanian border 14 hours earl­ier. A communique said the band was driven off after an exchange of flre, dropping gre­nades and ammunition belts as it fled, in action 35 miles east of Haifa where Sadat stayed dur­ing his three-day visit. There was no report of casualities. 
The Palestinian Liberation 
~;~~z:h~o~gy~~7an~~;:~t 
to 

peace as well as efforts to _J... negotiate an autonomous Pa­lestinian region in Israeli-occu­pied territory. 
Sadat, apparently unaware of the border action during the last night of his stay, stressed in a departure ceremony "the vital necessity to make progress on the Palestinian question soon.'' 
The "true nature of peace... is a comprehensive peace that encompasses every aspect of the dispute," said Sadat. re­peating a favorite theme. 
ture political status of]eru­salem's Arab population, an emotional issue that Sadat said needed more time·and careful study. 
"Christian anti-Semitism al­ways allowed for conversion... Like and M&M, Christian on the outside, ] ewish on the inside," Katz observed. "Race made the Jewish people perm­anently inferior and sub-human in the eyes of the Nazis," he said. ''And what do you do if 
you have lice?  You  call  the  
exterminator.''  
Nazi  racist  policy  was  an  

unusual blend of technolosy, bureaucracy and totalitanan principles, Katz noted. It was an anonymous system in which everyone did his job as best he could without worry of personal 
re~ponsib~lity. P~ofessional 
pnde requrred a grven worker to be the "best damned ] ew­catcher in the business." 
Katz remarked that the broad­cast of ''Holocaust'' had more impact on the public than all prior books and reports on the 
·slaughter of the]ews. 
the lecture was the first in a series of lectures on J udaica sponsored by Mr. and 'Mrs. Bun Liss. 
Katz holds degrees from the ·Universities of Rutgers, Cam­bridge and New York. He is the author of The Nature of Reli­
gious Mysticism. · 
LUTHERANS ON CAMPUS 
Come and share in Informal Bible stud_y, Worship, and Fellowship Sunda_y, September 9 5:00-6:30 Pf!l 
BULLASHED ~ 
(All interested students ca~ are welcome) miniStry 
r----------------------------~ 
I 
~ 

But at a conference in Haifa on Wednesday, Begin and Sadat 
t-----------------------------1

openly disagreed over the fu­
, ~----~---------------~-------~ 
• 
4 !0!~!-~ E~ ~-l!f!Y!!!J~I­THE"STUDENT SERVICE ORGANIZATION, WILL BE AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON mONDAY 

ALSO 
OBUO 
phon€ S€RVIC€ IS BaCk! ___._, ____ 
DIAL 0-8-U-D 

rPiMc:Thh;~-;;;;;;;a,,o, 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
·Georgetown Shopping Center (near Qira's) 
BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIAL 
I 

$2.00 OFF  ND  
~  
_any large pizza  Ji  

CleVdmd Rd. 
.j,

I (Not valid for deliveries)
I $1.00 OFF 
I 
I any small pizza I 
lwlde Screen TV-Lunclleon ..,...cials Daily~ 
----.-coupn Expires 9/14/79t____ 
Welcome to the South Bend Christian Reformed Church 1855 N. Hickory Road 
Sunday Worship 
10:45 am and 5:00 pm For more information call 
Rev. Roger Kramer 272~8424 "In the Retormed Tradition" 

THURSDAY SEPT. 20 8:00 pm WINGS STADIUm KALAmAZOO 
TI-ckets ate now on sale in South Send exclusively at Rivet City Recotds, 50970 
U. S. 31 Notth-3 miles north of campus --.,Fot futthet lnfotmatlon call 277-4242! 

.......................................................... 
•

i SENIOR CLASS CORN ROAST i 
1·······················································-c
: SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8 : 
: 2-8 PM GREENFIELD : 
• 
i SWEET CORN,BEER,BURGERS,DOGS, 5 
.: VOLLEYBALL MUSIC FIREWORI{S 1
•

~-·····················································•1 : 
---~----------­
Friday, September 7, 1979 ~page 4
The Observer 

oNLY! THIS weeK rifts wee~ 01\fl}',. SALE PRICES GOOD AT ALL STORES! OLDFALSTAFF BEER MILWAUKEE BEER '411Cans. EARLYCHRISTIAN BROS.~SEAGRAM'S TIMESBRANDYGIN 750ml '459 '4!!'4~~ CROWN RUSSE LORDGALLO RHINE WINE VODKA CALVERTBACARDI RUM Llllll/DAII '3!~ '4~~ HIRAM WALKER BACARDIPEPPERMINT RUMSCHNAPPS 151 proof KAHLUAARANDAS $699·3~.! 750ml.750TEQUILA Gold or Sliver .,••J & 8 $ SCOTCH •• quart PRICES GOOD WHILE SUPPLY LASTS VISA' WE HAVE KEGS TOOl! PBR, 24/12 oz. ana $5.19 254 DIXIEWA Y N. (ROSELAND)Miller, 24/12 oz. ana 1.71 Miller Ute, 24112 oz. ana 1.• 200 N. MAIN (ELKHART)Budweiser, 24/12 oz. ana 6.19 Busch, 24/12 oz. ana 1.19 PLUS 4 CONVENIENCE STORES: Mlchelob 12/pk 3.19 • 1725 N. IRONWOOD • 2934 E. McKINLEYMlchtlob Uti 12/pk 3.71 • 1426 MISHAWAKA AVE. • 4401 S. MICHIGANStroh'a, 24/12 oz. ana 1.• Stroh's Ught, 24112 oz. cans 1.• Molson's Ale I BMr, 6/pak 2.11 Prices good through Monday, September 10 PHONE 272-2522 Old MllwaukM, 24112 oz. cans 4.• ALL STORES OPEN Monday thru Thursday 9 am to 10 pmCHECK OUR OTHER BEER PRICESII Friday and Saturday 8 am to 11 pmPRICES GOOD WHILE QUANTITIES LAST  

• 1 . ""~., • 't ...• 1 
•• • ..._ ......... • ~ •• 4 • •""·~···· -. .. \.. ..
·!\. '~ ..···~···-·_..·.. ·•.• .. •.~_'.·' ..···· ••• _•. tt••.' ·_ /} '· 
• • • • • ,-_o; ,•., • • _#
"A•4'.., • ... ,. • •· ..... ·•·• ... • _.. -·· • • ••,. ... • • -· ..,•.-· .,..:... "'""t¥' . •t '' ;·.·•. -. "'•' .... ·•• :.~.-.. ~: ,;.;..~·......;·. -~:,_._ : ·. \.;•, ·.J...... ~ J., ' ~ 
~,.~~~.J~•",I•~<i.A,<i.,;... , ... _ll-'.".~ ,; '4-.t:.-..~-...·· ,,• .Vo"'...,'\:,' _..._,•~"':·~t .........:"~·~··"'"•.'.~.,':~~·-••. ••'~'-...'.'• ... • -..'"f,_i •.,....,J ·•.,i'-''·''' _, ._ •• !". ,,.,., • •
11 

The Observer 
Architects present library model 
by Charlotte Bradley 
Models of the new Saint Mary's library were presented by architects Evans Woolen and Erik Sueberkrop at a forum last night. 
The site for the new library is the southeast portion of the dining green. The architects said the design for the building is "sympathetic" to the other buildmgs on campus. 
The two-story brick building will have gables and dormer windows sloping up to a flat roof. Inside, mezzanines will overlook each floor. The interi­or design includes plans for an area with vending machines, and group study rooms. 
The matn entrance will be on the south side of the building. The structure will be accessible from the underground -tunnel system. 
One of the architects said he had hopes the new library would bring back to the Saint Mary's campus "the people who ought to be here in their own library." 
Sr. Bernice Hollenhorst, head librarian at Saint Mary's, said she is "very excited" about the designs. She added that Saint Mary's has needed a new library for a long time because the old one is overcrowded. 

elevator, smoking room, lounge After the architects' presenta-
Bookstore fills orders 'no worse than past years' 
tion, students asked questions concerning the design, accessi­bility of the library to the ' handicapped, and security mat­ters. 
The architects said there were • tentative plans to begin con­struction of the new library next spring, depending on monetary factors. According to Woollen, the structure will take approxi­mately a year and a half to build. 
A special Board of Regents meetmg will take place tonight to approve the schematic draw­ings so that further plans for construction can be made. 

I KNIGHTS 
iWIII have an Qom••'••o .ceremony this Sunday at 2:0 Jacket a·nd ne requested 
For more Info: 


CMID<ifT <MCOUIRf 'S WfLCOMfS ~flCK MoDlr 
by Stephen Sharp 
problem arises when certain textbooks go out of print. If the

The availability of textbooks current Books in Print lists thethis fall is ''no worse than past text, she has to assume theyears," acccording to Pat Van­company still stocks it. Onlyek, manager of the Hammes when the order arrives andtextbook department. "All of some books are missing can our big orders, that is orders of Vanek be sure a book is out ofthree or four hundred texts, are print.
all in," she said. 
Vanek noted, however, that the bookstore is short on gener­al biology books because the biology department recently ad­mitted 30 more students to the class. She explained that the textbook companies need three weeks to fill an order, conse­quently, students are in for an uncomfortable wait if books for a certain course run out. 
The primary reason for a textbook shortage is "shifting class enrollments at the semes­ter's start," Vanek said. 
If even a few students add a certain class, the books could run out simply because the 
NOTE: Sale Begins at 6:00 pm Th.utaday
bookstore orders only as many texts as the professor requests 
on his order form which is for Notte Dame/St. mar_y's Students Only (with student 1.0.) submitted to Vanek at the previous semester's close. "It's very expensive for us to return textbooks with the high shipping costs, and some com­panies will only take back a 
ALL ALBUmS and TAPES percentage of our overstock. The ones we can't return go in the sale bins," she said. 
Sl.OO OFFill NO umn
According to Vanek, another~ 
-Including blank tapes, Imports, cut-outs, picture discs
Gale's 

and Dlscwashersl (NO coupons necessary)
Burger Dairy 

Ironwood and 23 
Open 7-10 Weekdays 7-11 Sunday 
SjraussBake Goods 
1 
1 
'FRESH DAILY 
~ ~----------------~----------------~----------------------------------------~ 
Friday, September 7, 1979 ~page 6 
on the ts in the , my regrettable was not a unique 

ou'd think that after six semesters of buying books I'd get used to the ordeal. But I s_till hold my breath everytime I lift the cover to check the price · ofa book. And I still shudder as I count the digit~ .... 
I can't decide which is worse: the science course with a $25.00 hardcover text and $6.00 ac­companying workbook, or the government course with seven $6. 50 paperbacks. I guess it's a toss-up; they're both pretty hard on the pocketbook. 
Perhaps book-buying would be if there were more 
at Notre Dame for 
selling books se­
Unfortunately, I have had very little luck selling used books, and even less luck buying them. 
As near as I can calculate it, the average life SJ?an of a ~ardcover text on this campus IS two or three semesters; for paperbacks it's three or four at most. (fhis accounts for the heavy box of lntro. texts and obscure paperbacks sitting on the floor of every domer' s closet.) 
Of eleven books I bought this week, four were 1979 editions,· and most of the rest were 1978 editions. Many of these were updated editions of texis used last semester for the same class. 
Presumably, these updated versions ensure that the quality of our education remains top-

Ann Gales 
notch. However, I have trouble believing that our education would sUffer terribly if certain books were kept on the reading list for two or three years i instead of two or three semes­ters. 
I realize that rapid advances are being made in some fields of study,· and texts for courses in these fields should be up­dated as often as necessary. But I don't believe a yearly text change is necessary or justifi­able for a majority of the courses offered on this campus. 
In my opinion, professors should carefully select good texts and stick by them for a few years--until a change is truly necessary. A good profes­sor should be able to incor­porate a moderate amount of new material into his class lectures, rather than requiring students to purchase brand new texts every year. 
P. 0. Box Q 
'Dreaded alumni' steal away 
Michigan tix 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame student of today has a grim future await­ing him. For his destiny defines that he become the "dreaded alumnus" within the 
·matter of but a few years. The "dreaded alumnus," that ghastly beast who by contri­buting a few dollars per year receives the monster status which enables him to perch his repulsive body on the fifty yard line at home games and thoughtlessly steal away all of the student tickets to any away football game. 
I personally can't picture my­self returnins to a game in three years wuh the threat that eight thousand students, if given a dark alley, knife and alibi, would with no hesi;ation slit my throat. 
The fact of the matter is that as the Michigan game draws closer, there are no student tickets available. Maybe should correct myself. Sixty tickets will be available to students next week, as a result of alumni cancellations. This amount is outrageous compared to the six thousand tickets that Michigan gave Notre Dame. 
Ah yes, but I am merely a foolish ND student who refuses to accept the decrees of that almighty Notre Dame sovereign himself. May his grace forgive my selfishness and accept my pledge of loyalty. 
C. Kehoe 
Apartment Wanted 
art buchwald 

WASHINGTON--I don't know how "Let's see. Mao Tse-tung always other people have been reacting, but spoke highly of me." I've been very disturbed all summer ''Could you give me the name of that former President Richard Nixon 
someone who is still alive?'' couldn't find an apartment in New "Uh, let,me think. John Dean? No, York City. you . better not call him. John Ehrhchman? I don't think so.
It's not as if he didn't have the Haldeman. No. Do I have to give you money to buy one, or the wherewithal the three references now? ' ' to keep up the monthly payments. but ''No, you can
there seemed to be a conspiracy go home and think 
about it. Now according to youramongst the Manhattan apartment complaint you say no one will sell orowners to keep him out of the rent you an apartment in Manhattan.

neighborhood. 
Do you have any reason to suspect why If anyone had a case of being they won't?" 
discriminated against it was Mr. Nixon ''I know what they think of me and and if it had been me I would have they have a right to think that way if gone .to my nearest Fair Housing they want to. But let me say just this. Commission office and made a com­
I made mistakes, but they were of the plaint. heart. I should have been tougher. I 
"Hello, my name is Richard Nixon just trusted too many people and theyand I wish to lodge a complaint gave me the sword." because no one in Manhattan will sell 
"I'm sorry, but I don't seem to be me a place to live.'' 

following you. Who is 'they'?" 

"Please sit down. I'd like to get "It's all in my book. I'll send you an some information. What is your autographed copy." occupation·.?" "That would hel.J?." 
''After you read It will you find me''I'm retired. I used to be President an apartment?"

of the United Statesl'' ''There seems to be a problem here. 
"Any criminal record?" 
You apparently have not been discrim­"No. Here's my pardon. It was inated against because of your race."

signed by President Ford. I have 
"I am from C~lifornia." 

never been ~onvicted of any crimes, "Or your religion?"
nor can I be tn the future." 
"A lot of people in New York don't ''Do you know anyone who has been like Quakers."

convicted of any crimes?" 
''Or your sex. It seems the onlyA number of my staff were, but reason they won't rent to you is because 

they're all out now." you are President
a former of the 

''Do you consort with any of them?'' United States. We've never had this "Very few. Most of them don't talk type of case before. I think the best to me any more.'' thing for you to do is take it to court ''Could you give me the name of and see what the judge says.'' three references who will attest to your "Does that mean I'd have to testify good character?'' under oath?" "My wife Pat and my daughters · "I'm afraid so." 
"Let's forget the whole thing. I'd

Julie and Tricia.'' "We would prefer people who rather live in Brooklyn." 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate aren't related." 

What IS the Spiritual Commission? 
Editor's Note: Due to a production error the following was omitted from Mary Ryan's column which appeared in yeste;day's Observer. 
''The liberal arts are most liberal, most liberating when they rest on complete rather than on partial truth." Sr. M. Made/eva, C. S.C. 
''Saint ~ary 's re_cognizes the r~eed to redefine the structure of the Catholic colle~:e tn ~h.ese ttm_es ofgreat culturaf _change... Thus Saint Mary's seeks to P~vz'de a /t'!'tng _envzro_nmer:t where reltgzous values are taken seriously, where ncb ~nd dtversified lzturg~cal expressions of religious faith joins with cntical probtng ofcontemporary life from a Chnstian vantage point. '' 
Bulleli" ofSI. Mr}'s College 
I'~ the Spiritul_ll <;:ommissioner and I don't as yet know the full purpose of the Spmtual Commtsswr;t. As a Catholic wom~n at Saint Mary's, I do know my talents ~e. to be directed towards defimng this purpose. I feel a great respons!bdity_to learn ~bout the Church and to begin to unscramble the endless frustratmg mtsconcepuo~s. W~ are. a community here at Saint Mary's and I want us to pray as one m our hturgtes and in our rooms. I believe what Sr. Madeleva wrote and I want the Spiritual Commission to help. 

administration of either institution. 

Editorial Board 
The news is reponed as accurately and 

_The Observer_ 
Features Editor . . . . . . K. Connelly
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills 
Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
represent the opinwn of a majority of Managing Eqitor ...... Diane Wilson 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 rhe Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales Sports Editor ........ : ..Mark Perry Ot•inions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor . . . . Mike Onufrak their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager. .....Steve Odland 
The Observer is an independent 
newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of ·varying News Editor .......... Mike Shidds Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is ;Saim Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ..... .Bob Rudy 
Controller .......... Kevin Manion
necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. 

.+ 

~·-~ -----------~---­
·,' ~· ­
'Features 
Friday, September 7, 1979 ~ page 7 

Letters to a Lone~y God 
Sometimes I wish that God would try a little harder. Sometimes, when people are grieving or in trouble, I wish I could scream: ''God, get off your everlasting duff and HELP 1HEM!" I know he's busy. I know He needed a rest on the seventh day. But it's already half-time to etermty of the week following creation, and He still hasn't tempered the north wind to shorn the lamb's nakedness. 
Sometimes, for me as a priest, God's inefficiency is embarrassing. There are ghettos in the country where the rats are eating the child­ren. Dachau could happen again; and if racism triumphs, Martin Luther King could have died in vain. The Pope musn't visit the North of Ireland, and there are families in India too hungry to cry themselves to sleep. 
Thts summer, I dined with a couple whose son had been killed last year in a senseless act of violence. Six months later, their only child was hospitalized from a psychotic react­ion to mescaline. During the dinner, a friend of the grieved mother kept whispering to me: "She has never forgiven God for what has happen­ed." I thought: "Imagine God needing a.n absolution." That's what it's like being a priest: You are forced to become an apologist for an unabsolved Father. You think: the Father would have more friends ifHe made His own apologies. 
Last week, there was a death of a young man from Brooklyn. Supersti­tious people have a belief that deaths, when they occur, come upon us in sets of three. I am not 
~ superstitious, merely Irish; heaven seems more faithful in confirming our fears than sustaining our hopes. Last w·eek, having heard of the deaths of Prr.>fessor Evans and of Cathy Guth­erY: I found myself waiting to hear the\~ws of a third death. I did not 
The Weekend... 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
Funny Lady on September 7 and 8 at 7 and 9:30. Engineering Auditorium. 
Barbara Streisand plays Fanny Brice, a big Broadway star of the 1930's whose J.>rivate life is a mess. She marries Btlly Rose 0 ames Caan), a song writer-producer. The film is a 1975 sequel to the 1968 Funny Girl. Although Mr. Rose's songs are superb ("Me and My Shadow" and "Paper Moon"), the plot is heavy. October on September 10 at 7:30pm. W3:shington_ Hall. A ND/SMC film senes showmg. Dog Day Afternoon on September 11 and 12 at 7, 9:15 and 11:30. Engineering Auditorium. Fascinat-
Theatre /USB 
Theatre IUSB and the IUSB Player's Guild will offer a ''get acquainted'.' production of Neil Simon's htt comedy "The Prisoner of Second Avenue" on Friday, Sept. 7, in the Northside Little Theatre. Curtain time is 7:30p.m. 
The play, a holdover from the Player's Guild summer season, is being.presented free of charge to kick off the 1979-80 theatre season at IUSB, 
_ !Icco.rding to Jeffrey Koep, assistant professor speech and theatre. The performance a:..o will acquaint the public with the .iUSR theatre produc­tions. Pale Balsbaugh, an IUSB graduate, directs the production. --, 
The theatre will open at 7 p.m. th~·<., . night of the show. · . 
What 's All This, Then? 
Mark Herron 
ing recreation of a ill-planned bank 
robbery. AI Pacino plays Sonny, the 


engineer of the robbery who desires 
the money for a sex-change operation 
for his boyfriend. The film, despite 
its serious subject matter, inevitably 
invites a few crude laughs. Also stars 
John Cazale as Pacino's sidekick, Sal. 
1975 
The Lady Killer on Sef.tember 13 at 
7:30. Washington Hal. Another in the ND/SMC film series. 
Harold and Maude on September 13 at 7, 91 and 11. En~tneering Auditorium. A young man, fixed on death and funerals, has an affair with 
.an80-year-old woman. Black comedy tor those that can stand it. Stars Bud Curt and Ruth Gordon. 1971. 

North Dallas Forty 
River Park. Nick Nolte and Mac Davis star in this biting commentary PERFORMANCES--ON CAMPUS on today's professional football. The Concord-Airport '79 at 1, 3, 5,
Second City Players on Saturday, 

7:15 and 9:30. Scottsdale Theatre.
September 8 at 8pm. O'Laughhn George Kennedy heads a new castAuditorium, SMC. Admission ts $2 through the same old air tragedy. Atfor ND/SMC students and faculty. 

least tt allows those who have neverThese Chicagoans provide some flown on the Concord a chance to seeexcellent topical humor. Well worth its interior.
the reasonable admission price for a: Muppet Movie at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30,lot of laughs. 

7:30 and 9:30. Town and Country I. Kermit, Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy, 
CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS Gonzo and all the others travel across .. muntry to Hollywood to become big
just You and Me, Kid at 21 4,-6;-s:-­stars. Along the way, they are and 10 pm. _University--park II. pursued by ·a friec;l frog-leg entre­
Brooke Sheil.d and George Burns preneur who wants Kermit to do his team UJ? in 6is comedy. Too bad Ms. commercials. Shield ts a part of that team. Sunburn at 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 
The Amieyvzlle Horror at 2:15, 4:50, and 9:45. Town and Country II. 7:40, NS &:50. University Park II. Stars Farrah Fawcett, Charles Grodin Margot Kidder and others get and Art Carney. m~sed up in a haunted house.: .. 
ness ol God -at a -funeral in-the . super-macho world of Brooklyn. If I could have danced like Travolta, I might have1eonvinced them. IfI could have flexed my muscles in a tank top vestment, they might have listened. I had only the vulgarities of an undertaking parlor to assist me, and the promises of a liturgy that Italians have resisted being hooked on for over a thousand years. 
On Saturday, in Brooklyn, God wasn't conspicuous for His presence at Stephen's funeral. I invoked His 'name, /raised His wisdom, and declare Him to be lovable. I couldn't do more for Him, unless He helped Himself. Maybe He was there, helping Himself; not meaning to be disresl?ectful, I got the feeling He was leavmg all the work for me. 
I told them in the homily: "Steve came from jBrooklyn· to the green acres of Notre Dame because he had questions to ask. Sometimes at the grotto of Our Lady near the lake, he would ask questions of God. Some­times in my room, he would ask questions of me. Steve was always more curious about matters of faith than most people. I would .quickly run out of answers to the things he wanted to know. Now he has theologians to answer him, and the experience of the saints. Now he has the living God as his teacher, and God's holy light as his wisdom." 
I don't think the rapture found in the 
living God was a truth they felt close · 
to. They would rather think of Steven 
with them, at home in Brooklyn, 
competing in the discos for the 
sexiest chick. 
They Ithanked me for coming from Notre Dame, and being there. They were pleased I had come. God, from his long experience, must know that it's not what you say or do; it'~ simply being there that counts.-I wtsh God could be more communicative on the occasions when He's being there . 
Black Class 

Music by black ';ompose;s will be . featured during a p1ano recttal by ~elta Weiss Saturday, Sept. 8, at Indtana University at South B~nd. ~e 8: U 
p.m. performance wdl be 10 the Northstde Recital Hall. 
Weiss is an adjunct faculty member at IUSB. Her recttal will include music by black compo~rs, William Grant Shill and John W. Work, as well ~ 
oieces by Maur~ce Ravel and Serget .Prokofiev. 
She will perform 'At a Certain Church ' 'Ting Game' and 'Visitor from T~wn' from "Scuppernong" by Work. Music by Still, who is often called the 'Dean of Mro-Amencan Composers,' will be 'D3.!'k Ho~semen, ~ 'Summerland' and 'Radtant Ptnnacle. 


have to wait long. The day after Joe Evan's funeral, the phone rang JUSt , before dinner. A votce unfamiliar to me said: "I'm sorry to be calling with bad news, but Steve Sanfilippo, a friend of yours, died this mornin~.'' "But he can't have died," I satd. "He was never even sick." Only later did I remember: it was the third death. The third death always happens to someone you consider 
most immune. 
On Monday, last week, I was one of 
the concelebrants at Joe Evan's re­
quiem mass. On Saturday, I offi­
ciated at Steve's funeral in Brooklyn. 
Death is thoughtless in scheduling us 
for/rief. You sometimes wonder if 
Go pays attention to what death is 
doing. 
Every death, in its particular cir­
cumstances, brings us sadness; yet at 
the edge of sorrow, a hope of 
resurrection is celebrated. In Brook­
lyn, among Italians, Lazarus appears 
to be a man of no reputation; the grief 
at Steven's death seemed to be 
without hope. The consolation of the 
liturgy had the appearance of bounc­
ing off the dark sorrow of the 
mourners as though they were shi­
elded behind bullet-proof glass. 
Steve;s grandmother kept lament­
ing in a loud voice: ''This is not fair. 
They have taken my baby, and it's 
not fair; it's not fair." 
Steve's father said: "He was only twenty-three, and he never had a chance. When he graduated from Notre Dame two years ago, I wanted him to be a doctor, and he never had a chance." 
"It was the sickness that got him," 
Steve's uncle said. "He didn't have 
the strength to study.'' 
''Last March, he blacked out for a 
couple of days," Steve's father said. 
''They told me it was a nervous 
breakdown. The doctor put him on 
. tranquilizers. Last week, when he got sick away from home, he went to the psychiatric ward of the hospital because they had told him in March he was schizophrenic." 

"The doctors 1don't know from nothing," the uncle said. 
''At the psych ward, they thought he might be on drugs," the father continued. "They checked him for drugs, and he was dean as a whistle. He never took drugs, and his body was clean, without a mark or a scar on it. So they did an autopsy, to fmd out what he died of. I didn't want them carving up the body, without a mark on it and clean as a whistle, but it would have killed me not knowing what my boy died of." 
''The poor kid never had a chance,'' said the uncle. 
"He had a cancer on the brain," his father said. "For a long time, he had a.cancer on the brain, and they said it was very massive. Last March, they told me he had a nervous breakdown; they told me he was a schizophrenic, and all the time he had a cancer on the brain.'' 
So, on Saturday, I went to Brooklyn 
to help an Italian family that. 
couldn't be conned with the pieties of 
faith. A year ago, Steven had taken 
me to see "Saturday Night Fever." 
"That's it," he satd. "That's my 
world, that's my Brooklyn. The 2001 
disco where the kids danced is just 
three blocks from my house." 
After the movie, we travelled over to 
the Verazanno bridge, from which 
a kid in the movie had fallen as he 
tried to prove he had a man's 
courage.

"In Brooklyn," Steve said, "it's not 
enough to be merely macho, because 
Brooklyn is a super-macho world. 4t 
the discos, all the guys wear thetr 
tank top suits and flex their muscles 
as though they could bust out of 
chains. All the chicks love it, and put 
out their sexiest vibes." 
Imagine trying to explain the ~ende-
The Third Death ~Fr. Robert Gri:ffin 
-------..-------------~---r--------------------­
----------~-­
Friday, September 7, 1979-page 8 
J'he Observer 

c:: 0 OCC meets, discusses ~ 0 neighborhood group 
• '0\
0 
lr\

.u by Lynne A. Daley dents should phone Neville for·
0\ s more information.
-5 ~ ...... Off-campus students were en­The Northeast Neighborhood
...... 

I~ couraged to place more empha­Association encompasses stu­
~ 0\ sis on better neighborhood dents living south of campus, relations at a meeting last night on or near Notre Dame Ave. of the Off-Campus Council "It's an area with a lar~e
Q)
:::t= u V'l 

(OCC)in the Off-Campus Room student concentration,'' satd of the La Fortune Student Neville. "There's a lot of0 ·c ~ Cente stress, but we can work it out,"
~ 

~ While the OCC discussed sev­adding that, in the past, there~ lr\ Q) ><. eral topics, the group did not have been conflicts between ~ vote on any of the issues. students and full-time residents 
C/) ~

N Shannon Neville. Off-Campus ot the area. Commissioner, announced a One method of reducing stress
Fr~sh_men started studying for Ifmil last ni$ht. Before 
meetingof the Northeast Neigh­,she suggested, would be to
mtdnzght the annualscreamsassoctated with thzs night could 
borhood Association Monday establish a volunteer services
be heard from campus dorms. [Photo by Beth Prezio] 

night at 7:30. Interested stu-
BUIIERFLY CHAIR S34.99 
S2.00 OFF WIT THIS COUPON 
lolors: y~llow 
brown chestnut black 
THE LIFESTYLE FURNITURE COMPANY 




board at the neighborhood fire­
house. Here, students could 
post a list of tasks they would 
be willing to do for residents of 
the nei~hborhood. 

"I thtnk it's very important 
that we be vital members of the 
neighborhood,'' Neville said. 
Brother Edward Luther, newly 
appointed assistant housing 
dtrector at Notre Dame, ex­
plained the new system of 
housing ~overnment. In his 
new posttion, his duties are 
fundamentallt the same as last 
year, when he served as Off­
Campus Housing Director. The 1chan~e of title unites all student houstng and is designed to diminish the idea of "poor-rela­tion" status that is sometime felt by the off-campus resident 
· In other business, Mark 
Murphy was appointed to re­
present the OCC at the next 
meeting of the Campus Life 
Council. Also, additional ser­
vices for off-campus residents 
such as a test ftle, a list of 
avaible babysittt!rs and other 
general information, was pro­
posed. 

Mary Gatt, a council member, 
announced that the marketing 
department plans to suJ"I:ey 
students living in South Bt.:nd 
to accumulate data on possible 
shuttle bus schedule changes 
and a more feasible meal plan. 
Kathy McCann, director of 
off-campus sports, confirmed 
the formation of a mens' and a 
womens' football team. Dave 
Murphy spoke of an effort by 
one of the dorms at the last Hall 
Presidents Council meeting to 
receive permission for students 
moving off-campus to remain 
on thetr hall teams. Citing the 
difficulty of amassing enough 
players to make up an off-cam­
pus team, Murphy termed this 
plan a "disaster." 

Two deadlines were anno­
unced by Neville. All budget 
items must be submitted by 
September 14th, she said, and 
ther OCC by-laws must ne 
completed by October 1st . 
Help was also sought to decor­
ate the Off-Campus Room, the 
only method of communication 
in many cases between the O.C. 
students. Meetin~s of the OCC 
will be held in thts room every 
Wednesday night at 6:30. 
• • . I.D. 
(continued from page 1) Lac against cheating, forgery, or dishonesy for personal gam. When -altering a University document is akin to cheating. That rule was the basis for the fine. But what's involved here · is a n•atter of integrity.'' One of the students involved suggested that a rule should be -specifically spelled out in Du Lac. Dean Roemer felt this was a good suggestion. He said he .-.wi11-appcoach.-the Campus-Life Council for debate on the 
--~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~~:·~-~ ·~ 
The Observer 
Bob Mertensotto and Bob Berger spent yesterday afternoon scoping the South Quad. 
[Photo by Beth Prezio] 

• • • Raids 
[continued from page 1] 
"Oh no, we're still alive and kicking. We're not in any trouble.'' He would not com­ment on whether the incidents would affect the admission policy of Goose's. 
The students in question will next go to court, where they may receive a small fine and a maximum of 60 days in jail. However, Captain Vince Smith·, head of the Police Depart­ment's Special Operations Divi­sion, pomted out that he has never heard of violators receiv­ing such a stiff sentence, or anything more than probation. 
Smith also noted that although falsifying identification is a felony, it is normally treated as a misdemeanor, and offenders are charged only with ):5osses­sion, unless a bar chooses to press charges, which is ex­tremely rare. 
"For every ten arrests, we let another 20 go,'' Smith added. "We're not trying to cause any big problems, but four or five years ago, it was common to see 16-or 17-year-olds in these establishments. So our object then was to really crack down and maintain a tighter stan­dard.'' 
Smith also refuted Cor­by's claim that this was their first incident in several years. ''We went in there three or four times last year, and several times the year before that. We monitor these establishments day in and day out, but we let more go than we keep." 
He also discounted the term "raid" for the actions his department has taken, because they only go into uncrowded establishments with just two to four officers. "We would rather not arrest a large num­ber ofpeople. We get the same benefit by arresung two or three as by arresting 40 or 50.'' However, Smith added that when his officers do enter an establishment, there is no "se­lective enforcement,'' and all violators are taken out. 
The captain also noted that the Indiana Excise Police: do con­duct what may be more ac­curately termed a raid. The Excise Police are special en­forcers of the Alcoholic Beve­rage Control regulations, and along with State Police may enter crowded bars with 20 or more officers to make mass arrests. 
......................................... ., ......._ ... 

HPMakes professional calculators students can afford. 
Now when you think "professional calculator;· think "affordable:· Specifically, think Hewlett­Packard Series E-a full line of professsional scientific and business calculators designed for a student's needs and budget. 
Easy for study. All Series E calculators fea­ture a large, bright LED display with commas to separate thousands. 
Self checking. Built-in diagnostic systems help you catch and correct errors. Saves time and worry. 
Extra accuracy. New, improved algorithms give you more precise and complete answers-for greater confidence. 
Extra features. Low battery warning light. Rechargeable batteries. Positive click keys. 
For science and engineering students: The HP-31E Scientific. $50~ The HP-32E Advanced Scientific with Statistics. $70~ The HP-33E Programmable Scientific. $90~ 

For business and finance students: The HP-37E Business Management. $75~ The HP-38E Advanced Financial with Program­mability. $120~ 
O.K. Looks like you can aftord a professional calculator. But why do yon need one? Glad you asked. The answer is in our booklet, "A buyer's guide to HP professional calculators:· It's loaded with tips on buying the Series E calculator that's right for you. For your copy, stop by your nearest HP dealer. For the address, CALL TOLL-FREE, 800-648-4711 except from Alaska or Hawaii. In Nevada, call 800-992-5710. 
HEWLETTill PACKARD 
Dept. 658K, 1000 N.E. Circle Blvd., Corvallis, OR 97330 
*Suggested retail price excluding applicable state and local taxes -Continent-;.!_ U.S.A .. Alaska and Hawaii. 
619/15 
-,. . -...• ·-'. .. .-'.' . \ .. '. 



j 
j 
Friday, September 7, 1979 -page 10
The Observer 

Volcano erupts killing three 
Molarity 
Yro'RE NOT GOING To 7RY 
TO GET THE CAR 

-~----~­
...  ...~-·-..  
.  
••  D  
......  

TOKYO (AP) -Mount Aso, rhe world's largest volcano and a spectacular draw for thous­ands of tourists, suddenly turned killer Thursday, erupt· ing in a shower of rock-that 
ramed  down  on  dozens  of  
helpless sights eers.  
Three  were  killed  and  16  

others injured, two seriously, police in souther Japan report­

·.  -:·.-· .....'\m-----~-----­.. ·' I ·: . ·•••..,,... . •• • :··'  


ed. back into the cable car shed Aso's Narrodake Peak for a look 
The dead were a middle-aged were injured when rocks came at Nakadake, about 800 yards Tokyo cou.Ple and a honey­crashing through the roof. away. mooning h1gh school teacher, The crater of the 5,223-foot­A local police spokesman said whose bride was badly hurt but high Mount Aso, is the world's 55 persons were within the survived. biggest, measuring 17 miles 1, 100-yard danger zone ringing 
The tourists, most of whom north-to-south and 10 miles Nakadake when the cone sud­rode up by cable car to view one east-west. Five cones dot the denly erupted, sending black of the crater's volcanic cdnes, massive crater, but only one, smoke shootin~ more than a had nowhere to run from · the Nakadake Peak, remains active. mile into the au and spurting deadly rocks. Some who fled The tourists had ridden up to rocks more than 1,000 yards. 
Nasaharu Yoshikawa, 50, of Tokyo, leading a group of nine · persons climbing Naroadake,by Michael Molinelli was struck in the head and 

killed instantly by a rock of perhaps 30 pounds, police said. His wife, lneko, 49, died of injuries after undergoing a four-hour operation at Aso Cen­tral Hospital. 
Also killed was Yutaka Tsurumaki, 27, a high school teacher from northern Japan who had been married just four days earlier. His bride, Michiko, 26, was seriously in­jured . 
• • . David
by McOure /Byrnes 

[continued from page 1) 
Authorities said the four child­ren were sluicing down a cul­vert in a plastic boat but two jumped to safety before the 
' stream ran through a large sewer pipe. Patrolman Alvm Williams, 22, jumped into the water to try to save the other children but did not surface, witnesses said. One man was killed when a tornado hit his trailer in suburb­an Philadelphia and the body of an unidenufied Joung woman about 25 years ol washed up in a flooded section of Baltimore. 


Notre Dame -St. Mary's campus wide 
' ~~ 

~&~~~~welcome Back Party
c:,~~  e\i.,  
(;0~_  Friday, Sept. 7, 1979 7:30-12:30  off campus:  
'  

South Bend Union Train Station corner of Lafayette & South 
Live music, food, 100 kegs of beer 
Tim Hanlon,magician donation $4.00 -All proceeds go to the University Scholarship Fund 
Chartered buses will leave at 7: 30 and every half hour after that, from the ND circle and SMC Leman's Hall 
College ID must be shown to enter 
... 

\ 

----~ ----~ ----­
~orts 
'Fill-in' Stephan looks toward second trip to tennis Nationals 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 
"Game, set, and match to Miss Stephan. She wins 2-6, 6-4, 6-3." As the umpire declared her the Midwest Regional champion in the number six singles bracket, Tina Stephan expected to find herself waking up back home in 
Barrin~ton,  Illinois.  But she  wasn't  
dreammg.  She  had  indeed  won  a  
storybook championship.  

"I never expected anything like that to happen-it just took me completely by surprise,'' stated the sophomore bust­ness major recently. "I was quite nervous at the beginning of the match, but luckily I settled down as things got going." 
Getting to the finals of the regional tournament was no easy task for Stephan, a girl who had played doubles all through high school and last year as a member of Sharon Petro's women's tennis team. To begin with, she only played the tournament as a last minute replacement for Stacey Obremskey, Petro's regular number six player. Obremskey, an Indiana native, was chosen last spring to be a member of the Queen's Court for the Indianapolis 500 auto race. 
''When Stacey came up with her . conflict, we decided to go ahead and use Tina, even though she had always been a doubles player," said Petro. "Then, when we saw the draw, we feared the worst." 
That draw would see Stephan meet Angie Nyland of Augustana College, the top seeded player in the tournament, in th~ first round. Stephan managed a hard fought three set victory in a match marred by the appearance of linesmen (not a normal procedure unless there is an excess of questionable calls in the course of a match.) 
Tina had little time to savor her victory, because ''the luck of the draw'' had pttted her against the number three seed, Esther Cleaves of Dennison, in round two. Stephan's straight set victory put her in the fmals against unseeded Merrill Smith of Kalamazoo. After two tough opponents, this one should have been easy. It wasn't. 
''In the first set, all I could think of was going to Nationals," said Stepans. ''But when I lost the set, I told myself to forget about Nationals and to. just concentrate on this match. Once I got that concentration back, I forgot all about being nervous.'' 
That concentration earned Tina the right to travel to the "University of Denver, the site of the National tour­nament. Unfortunately for Stephan, this was the beginning of the end of her Cinderella story. 
"I was really in awe of the fact that I was actually playing in the tournament. I was somewhat nervous because I had another tough draw (Donna Morris of Cal State Bakersfield, the third seed, in the first round.) I really wanted 'to play 
as  well  as  I  had  in  Regionals,  but  
unfortunately I didn't."  
With the 6-3, 6-4 loss, Stephan  was  

placed into the consolation bracket where she met Barbara Mangan of the tournament's host school, the Univer­sity of Denver. 
After the match, Coach Petro com­mented, "Tina didn't really play poorly (she lost 6-2, 6-4), but she didn't play her best tennis etther. In spite of that, I'm not disappointed with her perfor­mance. She really exerted a tremen­dous amount of effort, and I think the experience will · pay off for her next season. She is willing to work hard, and I ·think shel actually will work to reach her potential. I have great hopes for her future." 
Rather than assess her own future, Tina was more inclined to talk about the upcoming season of her Irish team­mates. . 
"We are a much improved team over last year. I think that we are capable of 

Friday, September 7, 1979 -page 12 
Buchanan breaks 
ankle, out 
for entire year 

by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's 1979 football outlook took a turn for the worse Thursday afternoon when sophomore fullback Pete Buchanan suffered a broken left ankle. 
Irish coach Dan Devine announced that Buchanan was scheduled to undergo surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital this morning and will miss the entire 1979 season. 
----------------The injury occurred only four minutes 

Navratilova wins at U.S. Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Second-seeded Martina Navratilova easily beat eighth­seeded Kerry Reid 6-4, 6-1, and fourth-seeded Vitas Gerulaitis got by South AfricanJohan Kriek 5-7, 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 Thursday night in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open Tennis Champion­ships. 
Navratilova, the two-time Wimbledon champion who never has won the U.S. title, made short work of Reid, who had trouble at the net. They traded service breaks in the second set, but Reid could not hold her own thereafter. 
In the final game, she had break point, but Navratilova drew even wtth a cross-court volley winner, and Reid overhit on the next two points to yield the match. 
Navratilova will face third-seeded Tra­cy Austin in the semifinals. 
A record U.S. Open crowd of 18,090 watched the Gerulaitis-Kriek match. That was 58 people more than the number who watched the final here last year. 
into the first quarter of the team's scrimmage at Notre Dame Stadium. Buchanan was not carrying the ball on the play, but was blocking for tailback Vag as· Ferguson. 
Buchanan, a local product from Ply­mouth, Ind., had carried only once--for one yard--in the scrimmage before suffering the 
In last spring's Blue-Goldgame, fullback Dave Mitchell suffered a ser­ious knee injury which sidelined him for 
the entire 1979 season. 

Devine made no comment as to who would assume the number one fullback spot on the depth chart--the spot at which Buchanan was listed. • 
Possible replacements for Buchanan 
include sophomore Ty Barber, freshmen John Sweeney and Rodney Morris, and J 
Second-year tailback Berme Adell, once 
again the bright spot for the Irish 
yesterday. 

Adell, who could conceivably move to the up-back in Notre Dame's !-forma­tion, gained 128 yards in 11 carries yesterday as the white squad defeated the Blue squad, 
Included in that total were touchdown runs of one and 2 5 yards. 
Observer sports sta:ff makes openin~ round o.f colle~e ~rid picks ~ Malt Perry Paul Mullan~ Frank LaGrotta Craig Chval Brian B~lane Michael Ortman Sports WriterEditor Asst. Sports Ed tor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports riter Alabama AlabamaAlabama Alabama Alabama Alabama Alabama Alabama at Georgia Tech by20by14 by 13 by12 by10 by12 by14 CaiHomla Arizona StateArizona State Arizona State California Arizona State Arizona State Arizona State at Arizona Stitt by9by7 by2 by6 by3 by9 by9 r Houltlln UCLAHouston Houston Houston UCLA Houston Houston at UCLA by3by10 by7 by7 by3 by6 by3 Michigan StateIllinois Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State Michigan State at Michigan Sfltl by21 by14 by14 by21 by24 by8 by14 IowaIndiana Indiana Indiana Iowa Indiana Iowa Iowa by6at Iowa by3 by1 by12 by7 by11 by6 MichiganNortlnnatem Michigan Michigan Michigan MichiganM~h~an Mlch~an by21at Michigan by30 by14 by by40 by12 North CarolinaSouth Carolina South Carolina South Carolina South Carolina South Carolina North Caronna South Caronna by9at North Carolina by7·by10 by5 by7 by3 by 10 Ohio StateSyracuu Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State by7 by6at Ohio Stata by10 by 13 by10 by13 by16 Purdue PurdueWisconsin Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue ·oy22 by18 by 11at Purdue by14 by10 by16 by21 Southern Cal Southern CalSouthern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal by14 by12at TIXII Tech by17 by17 by12 by14 by21 Stanford StanfordStanford Stanford Tulane Stanford Stanford Stanford by7 by6at Tulan1 by 10 by3 by7 by7 by15 _________j_ ____ . -· .;. ;(fl.,---­z ....,;:.::.:-... ~• .-!!.,;'_., ' ~~­-~­·;, ..  Paul Stauder WSND Sports Director Alabama by 14 Arizona State by12 UCLA by3 Michigan State by21 Iowa by17 Mlch~an by South Carollna by1 Ohio State by6 Purdue by13 Southern Cal by17 Stanford by12  

___ .........,....___ .,..........,~ • I .-~J 
. ..... 'FtL.:.J. ·-·~ +.. _ _..,.~&. ····eMo~.._,_._....,_~lt,..._ -~--;...... .... -.,ew»•"'--~4·.,_ ....---~---~~~~·----~~~-"--..... z?'t•· .. 
~ 




