
April Fool's /// -page 7
' '
' 


VOL. XIII. No. 109' 


' 
As the evening sun sets over Saint Mary's lake, hopes n'se that spn'ng is close. [Photo by john Macor] 


TruCking industry declares shutdown 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The trucking industry declared a nationwide ~hutdown yesterday against 300,000 Teamsters a.fter the union launched stnkes against 75 companies in the wake of a collapse in marathon contract talks. 
The executive committee of 

Senior Bar 's renovations add 'classy ' atmosphere 
by Don Schmid StaffReporter 
Senior Bar General Manager Mike Schlageter has termed this year's renovations such as the Irish Pub, the upstairs dance floor, and food sales as ''very successful.'' 
Schlageter stated that the Senior Bar has experimented all year with different atmospheres to try and find the best thing and give the students a "home away from home." 
"We tried to class the bar up so that it can become a place to socialize with friends and not just an animal house," Schlageter said. 
The Irish Pub was built in place of the old game room, which proved to be unsuccess­ful. According to Schlageter, the Irish Pub has been packed every night since it opened last Wednesday. He added that the dance floor has become very popular this year and often fills up before the bar's downstairs rooms fill up. 
Senior Bar began selling sandwiches, pretzels, and other food items this year in an attempt to increase revenues. Although costs have risen because ofincreased wages and rising liquor costs, drink prices 
[continued on page 12] 
Trucking Management Inc., the industry's bargaining arm, said in a statement it "had no alternative but to instruct its member associations and authorizin~ carriers to shut down theu operations in de­fense against the strike.'' 
Bernard Henderson, a union 

Carter visits crippled plant; suggests precautionary evacuation 
HARRISBURG, pa. (AP) -Engineers slowly shrank a potentially explosive gas bubble in the reactor of the crippled Three Mtle Island nuclear plant yesterday as President Carter visited the plant and suggested a precautionary evacuation may be necessary withtn a few days. 
Local officials in the area of the plant readied contingency plans for such an evacuation and said late yesterday that arrangements were­nearly complete for relocating the elderly, inval.ids and p~rsons in institutions such as hospitals and Jatls. · 
"We' J like to have things in shape," commented Francis Hess, commissioner of Carroll Township, east of the plant. He said 1,000 copies of a public notice advising people what to do if an evacuation is ordered were distributed yesterday. 
Gov. Dick Thornburgh said in a statement yesterday night that schools within five miles of the plant should remain closed today. He said stare government offices will be open as usual, but wtrh generous leaves granted for "absen­tees." 
Although an estimated 50,000 persons have fled the Harrisburg area since Wednesday's accident touched off the first of a continuing series of low-level radiation leaks, Carter said that even if an evacuation is ordered, "this will not indicate the danger is high ... It is purely a 

SMC Assembly passes hall revisions 
by Pam Degnan emphasized the need for rede­StaffReporter fining and developing the func­tions of the Council positions. 
The Saint Mary's Student According w 1\ugusta's Resi­Assembly voted unammously dent Advisor Karen Mitcheli· last night to implement Au­"We have never had set elec­gusta Hall's revised Hall Coun­tion procedures or a structured cil positions. The proposals hall council as is characteristic 
spokesman, said in response to the industry's action, "we had gone out of our way to make sure this would not be a strike that would affect national health or welfare. The escala­tion is not our choice or our doing. It was the industry's doing.'' 
At the White House, Carter administration spokeswoman Linda Peed said, ''we are having no comment today on the Teamsters situation." 
TMI said 42 major carriers were targeted by the union strike. But union sources said 75 companies were struck. 

''This will cause a major disruption in trucking transpor­tation, not a limited or selective stoppage,'' the industry said in a prepared statement. 
The employer group also said it learned yesterday that other companies not on the union's strike target list were "in fact the object of picketing or other strike ac!ivity. '' 
Union President Frank Fitz­simmons, at odds for weeks with the Carter administration over its "voluntary" anti-infla­tion guidelines, satd, "interfer­ence by high-level government bureaucrats played no small part" in his decision to order the walkouts. 
Industry's decision to counter by shutting down l'resumably would make it easter for the Carter administration to obtain a back-to-work order under the Taft-Hartley Act. 
Administration officials con­cede it would be more difficult to obtain such an order aginst selective strikes because their effect on the economy would be minimal, at least initially. Experts say it would be easier to obtain a back-to-work order against a wider work stoppage, however. 
Government lawyers planned to meet late yesterday to dis­cuss what steps, if any, they would take. 
The strikes and walkout fol­lowed a breaking off a contract talks between the two sides late Saturday. The union's old contract expired at midnight Saturday. No further negotia­tions are expected for several days. 
There were early reports of strikes in a dozen states in all 8ections of the country. The full extent of the walkouts was unlikely to be known until the regular work week began today, however. 

precautionary measure." 
''Radiation is being monitored throughout this area and any 1trends towards increase in radiation will be reported to me," Carter said, after touring the plant control room. ''At the present time, the reactor cort.: is indeed stable. However, within the next few days, important decisions will be made on how to bring it to a cold and stable state. If it becomes necessary, 
For an update on nationwide reactions, see page 5 
Gov. (Dick) Thornburgh will ask you to take appropriate action. If he does, I want the instructions carritd out as calmly as they have been in the past few days." 
Harold Denton, operations chief of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and Carter's personal representative here, said: "from the data we've seen, I'm convinced the size of the bubble is being reduced. 
"If we don't succeed in (further) red•1cing the 
[continued on page 5] 
of the other halls on campus.'' 
Mitchell's proposals, adapt­ed from Student Government and hall staff manuals, focused on redefining five necessary hall council positions. 
The position of hall president carries the responsibility for upholding all hall rovernment policies. The hall president also works closely wtth the residents to ensure clear com­munications within the hall. 
Mitchell's proposal makes the judicial coordinator respon­sible for overseeing the judicial system within the hall and informing the alleged offender of the accusation and the con· sequent sanction. 
The position of hall social commissioner is redefined to include the organization and execution of all social funcitons in conjunction with the hall council. 
The secretary's duties are described as recording and postinf the minutes of the counci meetings, which are distributed monthly to each resident. She also sends copies of all minutes, newsl<"tters, and correspondence to the resident 
advisor and :hall president and publicizes all haU events. 
The job of hall treasurer as redefined is to keep ac.::u,rate records of all receipts and disbursements of the hall funds. She also reports on die financial status of the hall at all Council meetings. 
Primarily a Senior residence hall, Augusta operates on an "honor system" and therefore does not adhere strictly to campus policies. "Because Augusta operates differently from other halls, I adapted 
(continued on page 12] 

------------~---------------------­



News in brief 
Rumors of 1zuclear plant 
sabotage go unconfirmed 
WASHINGTON (AP)--The FBI is checking out "around a half dozen rumors'' ·of attempted or threatened sabotage at the crippled Three Mile Island nudear power plant in Pennsylvania but has confirmed none of them, a spokesman said yesterday. FBI duty officer Otis Cox commented after the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said in a statement that "NRC represl"ntatives at the facility were informed at 10:45 
p.m. on March 31 that there would be an attempt to sabotage the facility during the night." "We have no activt> investigation of any violation,'' Cox added in a telephone interview. "All the rumors have been checked out and so far there is nothing positive." 

Striking Indiana teamsters picket trucking firms 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)--Members of Teamsters locals in Indiana set up picket lines yesterday and some trunking firms shut down operations in a national contract dispute. The trucking industry declared a nationwide lockout against 300,000 Teamsters after the union launched strikes against 75 companies when negotiations collaJ?sed late· Saturday. The umon's contract expired at midmght Saturday. No further talks. were expected for several days. 
CTOvernment spokesman says radiation leaks harmless 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP)--Officials of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission tried to assure the public yesterday that radiation leakage from the Three Mile Island power plant near here, is not harmful to human life. Government spokesman John Merps told reporters, "As far as we can determine, no harm has been caused to any humans in the area. The only possible effect of the leak could be the recent sightings of truck-sized groundhogs and those nasty little 10-foot high robins that I sa'V on the way to work this morning." 
Begin 's 'open heart ' gets cold reception in Cairo 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP)--Menachem Begin arrives today as the first Israeli prime minister to visit an Arab capital. But 
Egyptian dislike of Begin and Arab outrage over the peace treaty will keep his welcome a mere shadow of the one Pre~ident Anw~r Sa~at got in Jerus~~em 16 months ago. Begm says he 1scommgas a fnend,· to open my heart to every man, woman and child in Egypt." Egyptian officials and people in the street, however, seem little inclined to return the sentiment. Te average Egyptian, primed by the anti-Begin line in the press, speaks harshly of the Israeli leader, labeling him a former terrorist, a devious bargainer and a tactless orator. 

Weather 
Occasional rain today with highs in the mid to upper 40s. Mostly cloudy and cool tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the low to mid 30s. Highs tomorrow in the mid 40s to about 50. Chance of rain 60 percent today. 

3 pm --READINGS, poetry and prose, LIB. RARE BOOK ROOM 
4:30 pn; --MEETING, amnesty international, LA FORTIJNE BALLROOM 
5:30 pm --MEETING, french club, FACULTY PINING ROOM, SOUTH DINING HAll 
7 pm --SHOWING, three dimensional art, ISIS GALLERY 
7:15 pm --LECTIJRE, br. john lavelle, HOWARD HALL, sponsored by student opportunities for christian services 
8 pm --LECTURE, "representational theories of mind," jerry fodor, m.i.t., GALVIN AUD 
~ pm --IMPROVISATION NIGHT_at the NAZZ 

Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 2 
Trial period successful 

La Fortune relllains open 24 hrs. 
by Mike Shields News Editor 

The LaFortune Student Center will be open on a 24-hour basis again as of tonight after a review of a month-long trial P.eriod of the new hours, accor· ding to ] ohn Reid, director of Stuoent Activities. The build­in_g had been. locked at nightlast week whde the results of the trial period were analyzed. The student center had been open 24 hours a day during the trial period proposed by a forma[ request last semester 
from student government, Reid said. The penod ended March 16, at whicb time the building was locked at 12:30 a.m. on weeknights and 2:30 a.m. on weekends. 
Student Body President Bill Roche confirmed Friday that Student Government would file a formal request to re-openLaFortune on a 24-hour basts. 
Reid said that he made the decision to keep LaFortune open after consultmg with Andx McKenna, Roche, Director of Security Joseph Wall and Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. John Van W olvlear. 
Brademas opens nominations to u.s. service academies 
Indiana Congressman Johri Brademas has announced that Congressional nominations are now open to students in the Third Congressional District of Indiana to the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO; the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY; and the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD, for the classes entering in I9RO. 
''In order to give every interested student an equal opportunity for an appointment and to nominate the best quali­fied young men and women, I am continuing the policy of making service academy nom­inations on a competitive basis," Brademas said. 
Brademas has used the com­petitive system in making all previous nominations to the service academies. 
Candidates must be at least 17 but not yet 22 years of age by July 1·of the year admmed. ·Brademas said that nomina-tions are open to interested residents of Elkhart, LaPorte and St . Joseph counties (ex­cluding townships of Cass, Dewey, Hanna, Johnson, Noble and Prairie, which are not part of the Third Congressional District). 
The Observer Night Editor: FrankL. Kebe, Jr. Asst. Night Editor: Pam Degnan Copy Editor: Debbie Dahr­ling, john Ferroli, Sr. K. Layout Staff: Rod Beard, Ann Monaghan Editorial Layout: Rod Beard Features Layout: Chris Ste­wart, Teri Michielutti Sports Layout: Beth Huff man , Typists: Kim Convey, Beth! Willard, Btl/ Swift, Katie· Breh~ Scoop Sullivan EMT: Zelfer Schwarzekatt Day Editor: Kate Kilkuskie Ad Layout: joe Murphy Photographer: john Macor  

Absurder Editor: Diane Wilson Absurder Layout: john Cal­cutt  
The Observer !USPS 598 920! is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Oame and Sain\ Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year l$10 per semester] from The Observer. P.O. box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rese~ved.  

Brademas also announced that he is permitted to nominate 10 candidates to compete .on a statewide basis with other con­gressional nominees for Indiana's allotment of seven vacancies to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY, for the class enter­ing inJuly 1980. 
Brademas urged all student interested in competing for an academy nomination to ~rite to him as soon as possible at 1236 Longworth House Office Build­ing, Washington, J!.C., 20515. 
' 'The ,key concern was the experience during the month {tnal period)," Reid said. 
'Barring any difficulties, the building will be open for the balance of the year," because the results of th.e exl?erience were "verv successful. ' 
He noted that more students used LaFortune during the test p~riod, especially between mid­mght and 3 a.m. Only two security-related incidents were reported--a table was stolen from the building's basement and the locks on a trophy case were tampered with. securitywill increase their patrols of the buil~ing at night, Reid added. 
Re1d blamed a lack of ''consis­tent publicity'' for confusion about the building's hours. Some students had-complained that their books had been locked iu LaFortune last week because the students were un­aware of the building's revised hours. 

Grant.fund reneu,ed 
American students who are 
qualified to srudv in the Facul­
tad de Filosofia vLetras of the 
Universidad de zVfadrid can now 
take advantage of 20 $500 
grants which have been renew­
ed by Academic Year Abroad, 
Inc., for the academic year 
1979-80. 
Applicants need not be 
Spanish majors but musl have 
studied Spanish in college. 
Further details can be ac­
quired by sending 20 cents in 
stamps to: Spanish Scholarship 
Committee, P.O. Box 9, New 
Paltz, NY, 12561. 

UNDAY, APRIL 8-7:00PM ® NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
PRICES: $5.00 & $7.00 NO & SMC Students, Faculty & Staff $2.00 OFF all tickets 
ACC Box Office 
The Observer Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 3 

The Monte Carlo Circus came to the ACC last weekend 
exhtbiting a wz'de range of danng balancing acts such as ''The 
Two-Rider Horse." [Photo by john Macor] 
by Kit Bernardi 
This past weekend, 170 girls visited the Saint Mary's cam­pus as a part of Saint Mary's Big Sister-Little Sister Week­end. 
Julie Pope, vice-president of Student Activities, termed the weekend c. success. Pope described the event as "having been a success and seemed to have gone pretty well.'' 
Pope attributed the weekend's success, in part, to the method in which fiscal details were handled tl:trough cooperative efforts among students, section representatives, and hall repre­sentatives. 
The Big Sister-Little Sister Weekend is a special weekend that enables ststers of SMC students to participate in col­lege activities. The ages of the sisters ranged from six to 20 years. 
The weekend began on Friday with an Admissions Open House held in the LeMans Board Room for little sisters interested in attending SMC next year. A welcome reception followed. 
On Saturday, the sisters tra­velled to the 100 Center on an old-fashioned double-decker bus, where they toured the convened brewery. The even­ing began with a steak dinner, compliments of the dining hall, which was accented by festive decorations. The sisters also received tickets to see "Brian's Song," which played in Carroll Hall Friday and Saturday. 
The weekend concluded yes­terday with a special Mass celebrated by Fr. David Murphy of Campus Ministry. Stick pins with the Saint Mary's shield on them were blessed at the Mass and distributed to all the little sisters. A brunch followed the Mass. 
Pope commented on the ne­cessity of a loosely strucrured schedule of events due to the diverse ages of the sisters. 

Pope and the members of the: committee who organi: !d thf. festivities are eager tor any _ feedback concerning the week­end for future weekends. 
Chertok to present 


jazz films 
Dave Chertok, jazz film col­lector, will present jazz film~ tomorrow night at 7:30 ir, Washington Hall. 
Chenok, who has one o·· the largest/'azz film collections, will show fi ms of major performers throughout jazz history. In­cluded in the films art Miles Davis, Billie Holiday, Charlte Parker, John Coltrane and Louis Armstrong. A question­and-answer session will follow the films. 
The presentation is co-spon­sor.~d by rhe Collegi;He Jazz Festival and the Student Union. 

In Senior Bar decision 

Roem.er approves m.anager 
by Rosemary Mtlls Mike Schlageter, Pat Jordan, 
And the others are also very
Editor-in-Chief Ron Zoromski and Brian competent.''Mullin, the present managers 
''The three of them made 
Dean of Students James of Senior Bar. The field was outstanding presentations,"Roemer has announced the then narrowed to nine final 
Roemer commented. "We felt 
appointment of Tom McGrath candidates. 
that they had excellent qualifi­as general manager of Senior These nine were then inter­cations and could make goodBar for the 1979-80 academic viewed individually by Roemer contributions to the University, year. Clare Stack was named and Ken Milani, associate pro­the senior class, and Senior 
business manager and Joe fessor ofAccounting and Senior Bar." "Shaz" Sherer will club man­Bar advisor. After the inter­
Roemer added that McGrath, ager. All-three appointees are views:Roemer and Milani dis­Stack and Sherer are experi­
juniors. cussed the candidates with the enced and capable workers. 
Approximately 30 students present managers beforr In working on .Junior Parents applied for a managerial posi­making the final decision. 
Weekend," he said Tom and tion, according to Roemer. All ''I think they will be very Clare were well-org~uized and applicantions '\\-ere teviewed by successful," Schlageter stated. 
:->howed a good ability to-work
He added that his recommenda­
with each other. The job Joe 
tions agreed with the final 
has done with Grace Food Sales 
choices, and that the three 
is quite remarkable.'' 
"had different personalities
Apply for 
For the remainder of the 
---and should be a good mesh." 
semester, the present mana­
Schlageter explained that 
gers will tnin their reP.lace­
orientation from the managers• point of ments. The managers will not 
view, there are '·certain criteria 
be paid for this period, which 
which have to be met in picking 

position 
includes the day followin~ a manager.'' 
graduation. They will also wont Any studetn interested iri 
''The choices certainly met 
without pay for ten days inbeing t member of the Fresh­
these criteria," he noted. 
.' ugust before the bar opens.
man and Transfer Orientation 
"Tom has the knowledge of 
A. this time any necessaryCommittee for the upcoming 
business and ability to work 
paining, renovations and gen­semester is asked to please 
with people that is needed. 
era! mamtenance will be done.
submit an application telling why they wish to be a member and what their interest in the Orientation progam is. 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
Please turn applications in ro Chris McNulty (208 Flanner) by 
Summer Sessions 
Thrusday. Present members 
HOME
need net apply. 0 Government/Business/Sociology internsh1ps 0 Language courses 0 English as a Foreign Language 0 Writers Conference 
Scholastic 
0 Washington Laboratory 0 College Preparation 
0 Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses Sessions: Pre-May 21-June 15 First-June 11-July 14 
elects editor 
Dave Satterfield, a junior 
Second-July 16-August 17 
General Program major from 
Cross-June 11/25-August 3 Oregon, Illinios, was elected 
ABROAD 
last nif;ht to the position of 
0 Quito, Ecuador-Spanish
Editor-to-Chief for the 1979-80 
0 Dijon, France-French
Scholastic magazine. Satter­field was elected by a majority 
0 Trier, Germany-German vote of the editorial board and 
0 Oxford, English-Business Administration staff. 
0 Leningrad, USSR-Russian As editor, Satterfield "plans 
SEND MORE INFORMATION (c. lCk above) to gi~e the magazine a more structured appearance and util­


Name .......................................................................................... . ize the wealth of good writers 
Address ..................................................................................................... 
we have here on campus.' • 
...................................................................................... Zip ....................... . 
Satterfield also announced that applications for Editorial 
Mail to: School for Summer and Continuing Education IND Board postions will be accepted 
Georgetown University Washington, D.C. 20057/or Call (202) 625-3001 
until April 13. For any further 
Georsetown University is an equal opportunity /affirmative 
information, call Dave at 1684 
action institution In employment and admis~ions. 
or Scholastic 7419 or 7569. 

Big deal on haircuts for you and a friend · · · two styled haircuts for the price of oneI $12.50 
272-1168 (Mon. Tues. Wed\ 
R9GIS HAIRSTYUSTS 
LlNlVERSITY PARK MALL 
-~~--­
The Observer Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 4 
APPLY NOW 




Despite poor road conditions, 
EDITORIAL POSITIONS ate now 
Maintenance reports 'no accidents' 
open on The 1980 Dome !leatbook. 


No Experience Necessary. Candidates especlall!l needed fot Business manager and Seniors Editor call 7524 or 3136 before April 5 
----=========---= 
BROTHER JOHN LAVELLE 
will speak on 

STUDENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR CHRISTIAN SERVICES 
Monday April] at 7:15PM 
in Howard Hall 

hope that will be afew days after April 9," Lyon com­mented. "Then and only then will we be able to fix the road permanently.'' 
When the snow and ice first started melting a couple of months ago, because of the excessive water in the road, the road crew had to use a sub­stance called jadar, a cement by-product, to fill the holes, Lyon continued. 
Once the water dried up, Lyon stated, they were able to use another substance called cold patch, an asphalt by­product, which proved more effective. 
''We realize that the patchings we have done so far have only been temporary. However, there is nothing we can do until the asphalt com­panies can start making their hat mix again," Lyon stated. 
Even though it may not seem possible due to the present condition of the road, Lyon maintains that the road has been repaired at least a dozen times in the last two months. 
"In fact, when the road was covered by water the road crew was out there everyday refilling the holes." 
by janet Rigaux 
There have been no traffic accidents along Notre Dame Avenue despite the poor condi­tion of the road, Edwin Lyon, director of Notre Dame Main­tenance, reported. 
Many students requested that Lyon have the chuckholes in the road patched over spring break. "However, it is not a matter of the road crew not patching the road,'' Lyon explained, ''but rather the problem is that the asphalt companies cannot produce their hot asphalt mix now due to the cold temperatures outside:" 
According to Lyon, the road crew has had to use substitutes for the hot mix, which are only temporary. The asphalt' companies hope to begin 
operating again April 9. 
"We will get the asphalt a few days after the companies start functioning again. We 
Strike causes lay9ffs ; airline cancels flights 
CHICAGO (AP) United Airlines said that it was laying off a total of 13,300 pilots, attendants and other crew members because of the strike that has grounded all its daily flights. 
United, the nation's largest carrier, said the layoffs would begin at midnight last night and would remain in effect for the duration of the machinists strike. The strike began at midnight Friday. 
The workers to be laid off included 7,800 flight attendants and a total of 5, 500 pilots, copilots and navigators. 
Meanwhile, negotiators try­ing to settle the strike said yesterday that they were having trouble getting to Washington for talks--because the strike is cl?gging other airlines' flights with extra passengers. 
Negotiati?ns have been 
ll'·,;~~:'::· ... 
·rt. .• , ........ 
·.:...
... 
:• ·...

:::, ':,.:·:·· .• ... 
;:;~.. '~:i!. . . . . 
(Any morning, Monday through Friday 6:00a.m. to 11:00 a.m.) 
Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear and, iiobody gives 
you more for your money. Nobody. 
1. EGGS 
Two Grade -A, extra large eggs served with hash browns, buttered toast, and jelly. 
2. FRENCH TOAST 3. WAFFL6S 

Four half slices served  One waffle  
with two strips  served with two  
of b'acon or  strips of bacon  
two porkies.  or two porkies.  

(Offer ends April 30, 1979) 

4. PANCAKES 
Three pancakes served with two strips of bacon or two porkies. 

•52820 U.S. 31 North-South Bead • 6111 Crawfordville Road-South Bead 
•921 West McKinley-Mishawaka 

scheduled tor tomorrow m Washinston, a United spokes­man said. ''The problem is getting everyone to Washing­ton; there's· a strike on you know," said spokesman Dave Ostwald. 
A walkout by the Inter­national Association of Machin­ists and Aerospace Workers has grounded United, the nation's largest airline, since midnight Friaay after a contract offer was rejected. 
SMC celebrates Wotnen in the Arts 
by Margie Brassil Assistant Saint Mary 's Editor 
The theme of Saint Mary's second annual Women's Op­portunity Week (WOW) is cen­tered around Celebration of Women in the Arts. The week's main speaker. will be Aqtonia Brico, the first woman conductor of the Berlin Philhar­monic Symphony Orchestra. 
The main emphasis of the program is on women in the Saint Mary's community who are exam,Ples of successful wo­men arttsts. Many of the speakers are professors at Saint Mary's. 
While many of the speakers are SMC professors, there will also be a presentation by Gloria Kaufman from Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend and the Indiana Women's Caucus for Art, which is based in South Bend. 
Tonight's film, "Antonia: Portrait of the Woman," is a documentary film produced by singer Judy Collins, who was a past student of Brico's. Brico, who is now retired, became a conductor at age 28 in 1930. She now tours the country lecturing on music. Albums by ] udy Collins will be given as door prizes. 
~aufman will speak on femi­mst humor. She Is the editor of a book on feminist humor and has written essays and a musi­cal play that was prodU<.ed in New York. 
The presentation on ''Women in the Theatre" features a one-woman play written by Julie Jensen and acted by Diana Hawfield entitled, "Was Birds.'' Both women are professors in the Speech and Drama Department. 
"Women in Contemporary So­ciety," on Tuesday, is a presen­tation that has been presented nationally by Penny Jameson, professor of psychology; De­anna Sokowlowski, professor of English; and Carole Ann Car­ter, professor of art. They recently presented it in Ver­mont dunng spring break. 
Several members of the fa­culty will be presenting their own poetry at a poetry reading Wednesday night. All students and faculty will be welcome to read selections of their own poetry. There will be door prizes of poetry books written by women given to those who attend. 
According to Helen Gallagher, chairman of the week, "There is a wealth of material of successful woman artists here at Saint Mary's. The emphasis this year on Woman and the Arts is an exciting one that needs encouraging. This is an opportunity for women in our community to communicate with the students outside the classroom.'' 
Women's Week: Monday 
7:45 --FILM--"antonia: portrait of the woman, the life of antonia brico," DINING HAll 
4:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. --PRESENTATION--"feminist humor,'' gloria kaufman, STAPLETON 
7:00p.m. --PRESENTATION--"women as visual artists" featuring margo hoff, 232 MOREAU, RECEPTION to follow presentation, ART GALLERY 
§~~c~.'SHOP FILM--"antonia: portrait of the woman," 
The Observer Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 5 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
HilA 

Equitable Life Assurance Society For: Insurance Agent in Chicago. 
Dallas Independent School District Elementary positions in Special Education, Math, Science, Kindergarten and/or reading emphases. ALSO, secondary positions in math, science, industrial arts, 
"It's slow but it's sate," said Bob Lengel, licensing engineer for Metropolitan Edison Co., the plant's operating company. 
Carter, a former nuclear engineer on r. ~avy submarine, said that if an rvacuation bt:Lame necessary "it will indicate a change is being these problems." 
Authorities have ruled out, for the time being_ at least, a mass evacuation. Carter said that if an evacuation is needed, th public should follow the instructions of state officials as ''calmly as they have been in the past few days.'' 
Nuclear accident causes widespread emotional fallout 
(AP)Emotional fallout from the 
incident at Three Mile Island 
spread across the country yes­
terdax with opponents of 
nuclear energy rallying from 
Plym,mth Rock to the Golden 
Gate. 
"Stop the merchant of atomic 
death,'' read a typical banner 
that greeted President Carter 
yesterday at Washington's 
Baptist Church before he left to 
personally inspect the PennsyJ. 
vania nuclear plant site near 
Harrisburg, where 50,000 per­
sons already have fled the area. 
Wary residents near atomic 
generating plants in other 
states were wondering if the 
same thing could happen to 
them. Radiation levels were 
bt"ing checked in several states. 
Lawsuits were being prt"pared. 
Debates raged about the future 
of America's atomic energy 
program. 
And four women filed into a 
tiny fieldstone church in almost 
deserted Goldsboro, Pa., just a 
half mile from the Three Mile 
Island plant that went haywire 
last Wednesday, to hear words 
of comfort form their pastor. 
Anti-nuclear groups demon­strated in several states, but in Harrisburg, Pa., just 10 miles from the Three Mile Island plant, one group yesterday called off a rally on the steps of the state capital. 
"We thought we would be acting more responsibly by not callins people to Harrisburg at this ume,'' said William Vas· tine, head of the group called Three Mile Island Alert. 
But the Boston Clamshell Alliance staged a rally yester­day on the Boston Common and the Massachusetts Bay Coali­tion held vigils at Plymouth Rock and at a nuclear power 
plant in Plymouth. 

About 15 members of the "Solar Rollers," who had bi­cycled 60 miles from Amherst, Mass., joined a demonstration at a nuclear plant in Vermont, Vt. 
"Hell no, we won't glow," was the chant of demonstrators Saturday at two nuclear plants under construction at both ends of Indiana. In San Francisco, protesters played dead outside a utility office. 
Many officials were changing their minds about nuclear power. 
Long a strong advocate of nuclear power in Rhode Island, 
U.S. Rep. Edward P. Beard, a Democrat, yesterday withdrew his support of an atomic plant in Charlestown, R.I. 
Beard said that even support­ers of nuclear power now think rhe Charleston project now will be shelved. 
Missouri Gov. Joseph Teas­dale said he will ask the state Public Service Commission to­day to make sure the $2.6 billion nuclear plant now under construction in Ca1laway County near Fulton, Mo., is safe. 
In New York, the state En­vironmental Protection Depart· ment and health officials con­tinued to test milk and air samples but found no increase in radioactivity. 
We're Looking For People With Class 
****************************** 
The Student Union Services 
Commissio~ now takina applications for the following positions: ASSI~TANT COMMISSIONER 
AL  M  IC  SC  1M  
April 9 Mon.  X  X  X  X  
April Tues.  10  X  X  

April ll/1' Wed/Thurs. 
P.E., homemaking,  business education and/or reading  
concentration.  Bachelor  through  Ph.D.'s with majors  
listed above.  Must  have  a  minimum of  24  credit hours  
in particular major and  be  eligible for  certification  
in State of  Indiana.  
X  011-Dri Corporation of America  
Industrial Absorbent Clays.  All  BBA.  Export  
Traffic Manager  for Multi-National Corporation.  
Location:  Corporate office-Chicago.  Perm.  Res.  Visa.  
X  X  X  X  U.S.  Navy.  Officers Program  
B in all disciplines.  

• • . Nuclear reaction 
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL COORDINATOR 
BOOK EXCHANGE COORDINATOR ON CAMPUS MAILMAN FREE UNIVERSITY COORDINATOR 
****************************** 
Applications available in S.U. Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune 
Volunteers also needed for Services Commission Task Force sign up in Student Union Offices 
WALSH HALL April 2_
8 

CELEBRATES HER SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY 
Monday......the birthday "party" Tuesday.....new hall officen. welcomed into office Wednesday ... helium baloon sale in front of walsh Thursday .... hall binhday dinner Frida}'......happy hour at Bridgets Saturday .... picntc at Bulla Shea Sunday......talk on hall history followed by open house **Events partially funded through ND Student Union 

[continued from page 1) 
bubble in the next few days, we would have to go 
to emergency core cooling systems to take it to a 
cold shutdown." The reactor core temperature remained steady yesterday at 278 degrees Fahrenheit. 
The bubbJ,. was being slowly depleted by letting the gas dissolve in the constantly circulating coolant water and then allowing it to escape from the water outside the reactor. 
made in the cooling system." . . . 
Scientists are concerned about the possibllity of hydrogen and oxygen mixing, in flammable proportions, both in the bu~blc; in the reac~or and outside the reactor, but Inside the contain­ment building. 
The president, who was accompanied by his wife said he had come to the area to "assure the people of this region that everything possi~l~ has been done and will be done to cope With 

'Be Reconciled' Lenten Penance Service Bishop William McManus 
, '. -~ !/':::!~(:.:' ... .;:. 
.,·.,
Celebrant 

. : .:'!': :::!.~: ..;··· 
: : •• :, '1 ~ 
I, ',', 
April 4th Sacred Heart Church 
~ ' ...' ' 
·. 1,' 
(Confessors available following serviceJ 
., . 
~' :!:>·~: .,. 
' 
t I!~~~: '~ :!: • '' 
,(, ,': "' 
' I '' •I' 
'.:.':·'·:· 

~----------­

Editorials 
SG Board in need of more balance 
Among the 23 amendments to the Student Governme_nt Constitution proposed last week by the Board of C_o~mts­sioners was a proposal to add an Off-Campus Commtss10ner and a third Hall Presidents Council representative to the Board. The Board includes, at present, the Student Body President Vice-President and Treasurer, the Judicial Coordinat'or the Student Union Director, the HPC Chairman, and an elect~d representative from the HPC. The additio~ of a ninth member was recommended to prevent vonng deadlocks which might have .resulted on an eight-member Board (the original seven members and the Off-Campus Commissioner).
The Observer disagrees with the Board's decision to add a third HPC representative as the ninth Board member. While we do not deny that the HPC is ''the most representative body on campus'' (as cited by Board members supporting the addttion of a third HPC member), we believe that two HPC reflresentatives on a nine membe~ Board are more than sufficient. The HPC has the potennal to be a very powerful group, if it acts in unison. However, in the past it has proven to be less than effective in utilizing this potential to represent and deal with problems of the student body. 
We believe that a second Student Union representative would have been a better choice for the position. Student Union is an organization concerned with the social and non-political aspects of student life. Its members--though they are appointed and not elected--represent the student body well with respect to their social needs. A complete representation of student viewpoint is needed on the Board of Commissioners, esrecially because that body formulates policy which affects al aspects of s_tudent life. This _c<;>mplete representation would be best achteved by the addmon of a second Student Union representative, 
In recent years, it has been convenient to place HPC members on boards, committees, and councils. But the rationale for placing these person in important positions needs to be carefully thought out and clearly explained. Statements to the effect that "the HPC is the most representative body on campus" do not, in our opinion_, automatically justify the appointment of HPC membe_rs t? tmponant_posltlons. . 
We believe that other organtzanons have this same capacity to represent student interests and _Perhaps are be~ter s~ited to help achieve a true representation of student v1ewpo1nt. 
DOOIIISBUBY 
by Garry Trudeau 

trs "PP?f}f:/L£5 ONPARAIJE.," AMJ 70PAY 14/e HAVE 1A11TH 115 RE71JI?NIN6 AIJJMI.IJS f)R. Ai.l MA/-1{)1/VI, '74, C/RI?£NTLY Oil L.£4VE FROM 7Hc IRANIAN 
R&VOI.Jm()NA!zy TRIBUNAL! I 



AS A LAYMeM8fR. CF 
THe 151.AM!C TRIIUIAL, 
I Pt:RSONAUYHAIJ A HAND 
/(THe semtNCJNG ANO ex&a!TlN6 OF 60 SICMICS 
fF 7Hf; R&WI.UTION! 
"'­
Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 6 

P. 0. Box Q 
Reaction to gay rights appeal 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the series ofcolumns written by a member of Notre Dame's gay community; specifically I wish to comment on the second column, in which the author makes certain claims as to the natural origins of homosexual­ity.
''Homosexual sex is natural for the homosexually oriented whose consciences haven't been tampered with." 
Archaic as it may sound, I still believe · that the basic (God-given, if you will) purpose of sex is procreation. In this age of blossoming freedom, abortion, the pill, etcetera, are· looked on as necessary accoutrements to a "full", free lifestyle, something that we all have a right to. We have a right to decide and control as much as possible what happens with our bodies, they say. And the author ends his article with "Gay people are not trying to hurt anyone. They are only trying to live their own lives in peace." 
I don't see this as the case at all. Insofar as I believe that the basic purpose for sex is procre­ation, it seems to be to be important that role-models, elders, or whakver you want to call those persons that are in positions of prominence,· por­tray strong heterosexual traits, so as to most effJ.ciently assure the learning of the basic sexual purpose, and therefore assure the continuation of the liuman species. Anita Bryant seems to 
to me to have been correct at least on this one point. 
I believe that there are "natural" homosexuals, but all his phrase means to me is that there are individuals who are stuck somewhere between mas­culinity and femininity, whether this sexual indecision is the result of physical or emotional insecurity. As far as "consciences being tampered with", just as Mr. Amenta as a homosexual is worried that homosexuals may begin to doubt the natural origins of their sexual preferences in the face of social criticism, so I as a heterosexual worry that the infiltration of admitted homo­sexuals into prominent posit­ions of power in our society might influence the normal procreative drive in our young. 
But I must admit the times they are a changin'. There is no need to have all humans strive to produce offspring, for through the wonders ofscience we have reached a position in time where there are more than enough people roaming the face of the earth to assure species continuation (if scientific pro­gress doesn't kill us all en masse). Thus the ever flexible Catholic church (and it is not alone) sees that to stay in step with the changes in societal functions and situations it must adjust its "stagnant and un­healthy view on the matter'' of sexuality to fit the blossoming . freedom--call view of what is acceptable. 
The gays are right, though they don't seem to understand whr.. The fact that man can artificially inseminate woman without sex, the population situation being what it is, and the common belief that all others in society should have to accept what an individual does with himself, regardless of the long term effects, all contribute to the deserved righteousness of homosexuality in this era. 
Yes, homosexuality is natur­al, but so are natural catastro­phes and disease, events that serve to keep down the human population on earth. If man chooses to try and control the population-hmiting factors, then I guess Mr. Amenta has a right to say homosexuals shouldn't be called deviant. 
C.]. Crosson 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosema:-y Mills Features Editor .. .. Chris Stewart represent the opmwn of a majority of Managmg Edt tor . . Diane Wilson Photo Ediror ... .. Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Edironal Edtror . . . . . . . . Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...·.Mike Lewis Business !\tanager ..... Steve Odland newspaper published by srudents of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Untversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor . . Mike Shields · Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Sainr Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor ........... M<j.rk Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
_The Observer_ 

April Fool's a ridiculous farce for smc chicks and domers April Fool's 

Radiation 
Plot to 'eliminate'
detected 
students revealed 
inSorin 
by RadE. ..A.tion by RedMcNut many students wl"'re doomed,' Absurder Panamaman Letcher moaned ·'I really
Semor W'Jve Reporter 
Correspondent don't think there i~ much we An accident at the Notre 
can do. After all, Ted said that Dame nuclear power plant sent In an exclusive interview we have to live within some 
yesterday, Dan Letcher, Day rules on the 'Donahue show'
radiation beammg through the plant ., walls and was detected Editor at rhe Notre Dame and I am convincl'd that His 
j 
.ts far awav as Sorin Hall, the Observer, told reporters thlit he Hi8hness w_ill make-this re­government said yesterday. has uncoverl"'d a secret Univer· qutr<:-d avtauon course to Iran ~iry plan to ease the Housing look <:-xr11ing." Lf'tcher con·
Bt·forc: the announcement 
Lom tht: Nu•lt-ar Regulatory shortage next year on campus. eluded.· Commis.c;ion in Washington, Letcher. explaining that he from tw-: imerv1ew, Letcher 
t 
overheard the plan being dis­lc:fr for a senet meeting withI\otre Dame:-officials had said 
only .. small amount of radio­ruo;;sed h1· two Universirv ofti­Fr. Robert r;riffin It is acuve steam escaped when a ctals in ·a rest room ir1 the rumot cd thar L< •xh is asking \ alvt: blew out on a water pump '\ d mini.~ r ration Bu iJ ding , Griff H• talk n, hts lonely God 
that cools a reat tor. 1s~ued the following statement .tnd ibk for in"·cvr·ntion. No
·t NK.C rt"actor in.,pector Guy n• n~portns: "J'm._preny -;urc· I un her detaib wt:rc available. (rc:-r.,•ume.r said "a handful" of rhat the Adrnintstrauon i' g..mg L ·rrhn returned to the meet· work~rs were contaminated to kill us -;o rhl"'y will have· •·norl"' :"tr Jt't er a tn., minutes of 
( lffiuafo;; had said earlier that open beds on lampu' next :1bsenre 10 wh1ch. accordin~ to readmgs taken outstde rhe vear. ·· 
.111 atd.---he took several inJeC­plaor afrt'r rhf" accid("nt showed · Bv enrenng an adit•ining tion,; of rabie:-: o.,erum, and 
i·:ss r<~di..ttion than a person tOJlCt stall, Letcher n:•-·e..!led ,.houred to reporters, "Ted's V~-ould absorb from the new that ht' was ..tbl.e ro overhl"ar gmng to kill us. Ted's going to Lherkout system tn the library. even more stirring evidence kill usr-
Ray DiAtion, a spokesman that some type of plan may be Aftl"r ht' had St'ttkd down. in the making. Letcher explaim:d that further
tor tht Nuclear Regulatory 
low "I heard them saying some­on in tht" secrer rest room
Commission. satd level radtation was measured in the thing about Iran,·· Letcher said, discussion, th(" two official., 
tmmediate vicinity of the power adding, "They were talking outlined a plan to load 450 
about the 'Iranian exper­students who had alreadyplanr. He assured The 
ience'.'' turned in housing cards into the
Absurder however, that the 
smell of roast duck from St. 
Let:her added that he planes under the pretense that Joe's La 'c~, the mysterious checked with Michiana they would be taken on a wilting of houseplants in Grace Regional Airport officials and cultural exchange trip to 
and Flanner, and the over­they reported that thirteen Tehran for a weekend of bar­C-130 air transports had been hopping similar to an earlier
cooked meals yesterday in leased in the name of 'T. Toronto trip. Letcher added,North Dining Hall are in no way 
Hesburgh.' however, that the officialsconnected with the radiation "That's when I knew that planned to release laughing gas
[continued on page 8] 
tnto the pressurized compart­ment of the airplanes, in his words, to ''end it on a happy not!:' '' 
The officials were quoted as saying, "That's the way Knute Rockne bit the dust, and if it's 
Japanese WWII soldier found in tunnels 
byJohn McGrath later explained his behavior in also appears to have retrieved Roemer was unavailable for good enough for Knute, it'sStran~e and Weird Happer.·­the runnel by telling reporters, some near-empty beer cans comment on whether Sukiaki good enough for a bunch ofmgs Reporter "Uh, attack, urn, a cigarette, which were lying near tunnel would be disciplined under the 
long-haired philosophy
er, uh, urn, kill, sex, yum." hatches, because the tunnel University's alcohol directive, 
majors.''
A _T apanese soldier, who said By employing symbols and chamber where he lived was but John Reid, Student Activ­At this point. Letcher said
he was not aware that World sign language, experts were littered with empty cans. ities Director reported ''Those War II was over, was discover­able to deduce that Sukiaki was Dean of Students James [continued on page 9) [contmued on page 9) ed huddlin~ in a corner of a sent to America in 1943 to spy chamber tn Notre Dame's on U.S. educational institu­underground tunnel system. tions. Apparently, Sukiaki 
The soldier, Maj. Chin became lost in Notre Dame's 
Killer squirrels rape
Sukiaki, a r.ative vf Yokuhama, tunnel system and was never Japan, was discovered by nain­able to fulfill the remainder of tenance workers who were in his mission which would have the tunnel to repair an electrical taken him to the University of 
two chipmunks on Quad
conduit. Michigan, Indiana, and Ball Doug Stub, one of the State. 
•vorkers who found Sukiaki, It is not known how many by]ohn McGrath Badin when he heard chattering noises coming ,;aid he saw someone in the secrets Sukiaki was able to Roving Rodent Reporter from out on the quad. tunnel when he opened the pilfer while here at Notre "Chee, chee, tick, chee, tis, tic, tic, tic, hatch to enter. He alerted Dame, but regardless, subse­A pack of hungry killer squirrels raped and chee," the rat said, describing the incident. He Notre Dame Security, but de­quent searches of the system robbed two chipmunks on the South Quad added, however, "Zee, thic, chee shii, shee cided to follow the intruder yesterday revealed that his yesterday. Witnesses pegged the:-number of sheeeeeee.'' himself, thinking the culprit radio must have been destroyed assailants at between five and seven. Squirrels The two chipmunks who were raped were the was "just one uh dem crazy many years ago when rats have been responsible for several other inci­wives of noted recording artists, Alvin and Dillon fellas!" chewed on the wires. dents this year on campus, including about ten Theodore, who sang with the group "The 
"I was shurr surprised to Apparently Sukiaki has sub­instances of humans being bitten by the Chipmunks" during the sixties. look down one of the passa~es sisted over the years by eating animals. The victims and their families were not and see this here guy comin at leftover dining hall food which Besides being the victims of sexual assault, available for comment. 
me with sum kinda big knife,'' he obtained by crawling out of a the chipmunks were robbed of several dozen Dr. Ziphilo T. Raymond Bi("s, university Stub said. tunnel entrance near the south physician, reported that the two victims were
nuts which they had been bringing out of winter Director of Security Joe Wall dinin~ hall and raiding garbage treated at the mftrmary and released folldwing
storage.
reported that security officers cans 111 the rear ofthe building. the incident.
Director ofSecurityJoe Wall reported that the 
were soon dispatchecl to the Experts theorize that this fact is "I knew something like this was bound to
incident took place at 2:38 a.rr•. in front of Badin 
scene and were required to help responsible for his green com­happen," Bies commented, pointing out that
Hall near a large tree. He indicated that
bring Sukiaki under control. plexion. squtrrels have been on the 'rampage' all year
Security has several leads on the case, but no
When they arrived, the]apan­Sukiaki's only entertainment across campus.
arrests have yet been made. 
ese Major was reportedly trying appeared to consist of a few Wall said his department is continuing their 
to pull his sword out of the wall copies of Playboy, Look.. and A rat, who spends much of his time at the investigation. There have been some uncon­
next to Stub. The Observer, as well as listen­Hudd!e, but who commutes daily to his South firmed reports that squirrels might soon gain a 
Sukiaki, who knows only the ing to the Notre Dame band Quad hu!e, reported that he witnessed the nuclear capability, and the FBI has reportedly American words "cigarette," play the Fight Song from above incident. The rat, known only as "Huddle," expressed interest in joining in the investiga­"kill," "attack," and "sex," his underground abode. He said he was scampering across a walkway near tion. 
.. 
.....-__ ,_ :a­

,_... # f •
.,..,. .. -......... 

~­
News in brief April Fool's Day-page R 

Radiation leak not harmful 

• • . Radiation 
at Tree Miles Island 

[continued from page 7] 
that it melts through the floor of of a nuclear reactor on campus. leak. the reactor and continues right After last year's coal strike,HARRISBURG PA. (AP)--Officials of the Nuclear A nuclear engineer from the through the earth, literally to University officials authorizedRegulatory Commission tried to assure the public yesterday 
Science Department, Prof. Taiwan. the Staten Island Project, athat radiation leakage from the Tree Miles Island power plant Adam Bomm, said the reactor's Notre Dame business man­secret effort to build a reactor in near here is not harmful to human life. Government nuclear core had become over­ager AI Mightidollar noted that the Radiation Researchspokesman ] ohn Merps told reporters, ''As far as we can 
heated during the early­this ''Taiwan Syndrome'' would building. Transfer from Radia­determine, no harm has been caused to any humans in the morning incident. The emer­not have been a total catas­tion Research to the power area. The only possible effect of the leak could be the recent gency core cooling system had trophe, as the University could plant took place over the sightings of truck-sized groundhogs and those nasty little turned off prematurely, result­have saved approximately summer. Some students hereten-foot high robins I saw on the way to work this morning.'' 
ing in a partial blockage of $2,500 on airfare for students for summer school reportedly water needed to cool the joining the _Sophomore Year saw the reactor being trans­nuclear core and keep it under Abroad Program in Taipei. ported, but were told by control. That could have led to Prior to yesterday's accident, Security that it was a new
Punitive raid 
the ''Taiwan Syndrome,'' most Notre Dame students microwave oven for North where the core becomes so hot were unaware of the presence Dining Hall. 
launched in Asia 

MAKHACHKALA Dages tan (AP)--The tiny central Asian republic of Dagestan launched an early morning invasion of 
Boa found in salad
its even smaller southern neighbor, Azerbaidzhan, today, employing crop-dusting airplanes, mechanized haycarts, and waves of loyal troops armed with _pitchforks and rakes. Sources in Makhachakala, capital of Degestan, called the 
in South Dining Hall 
attack ''a punitive raid designed to punish the southern by Boy R. Dee ''I just wanted toJet a salad, snakes are smaller, though. Iimperialists so that they will cease the1r evil hunting of our Dining Hall Editor and when I move a leaf of really can't explain how thenational bird, "The Yellow-winged Ground Swallow." A 
lettuce, there he was," a snake got there, unless he justcorrespondent lost in Kirovabad, the Azervbaidzhan capital, Miles Gorkum, a junior from shocked Gorkum said. "I followed his nose, heh, heh."
reported that the city was hit by "many flour bombs" in a 
Morrissey Hall, reported yes­screamed, and help came run-The latest discovery ofnoon-day air raid. State Department spokesman Hodding terday that he found a seven­ni~g. I want to commend the foreign matter in dining hallCarter commented, ''As soon as we find out where the foot-long boa constrictor in the staff here for their quick food sparked an investigationblasted place is, we'll make a statement." 
salad in the South Dining Hall. action.'' by South Bend's Department of 
Food service employees re­Food Services Director Sanitation and Health. Tim 
moved the snake after killing it Robert Robinson said, "This is McGonigle, the department's
Carter orders halt 
by force-feeding Chuckwagon not the first time something like chief inspector, released his burgers to the slimy creature. this has happened. Usually the findings yesterday. 
========================~= ''Notre Dame has one of the
of reporting bad news 
most unusual and creative WASHINGTON (AP)--President Carter announced yester­
kitchens I have ever been in,'' day that he has instructed all government departments to 
Duck dies in fire 
McGonigle said. "There is a stop "reporting bad news and statistics about the economy 
six-inch layer of muck on the that make people of our nation, especially the voters, mad." 
floor. EmJ?loyees practically Included under Carter's planned ban are nomthly economic 
have to swtm around to get indicators supplied by the Labor Department as well as 
at Leeper Park 
anywhere. And instead of by Dan Lecher were in mourning this after­modern trash and garbage dis­
nomthly employment and currency reports. "I think the American people are sick of this kind of thing,'' Carter told a 
Dirty Old Man noon. The leading duck repre­posal methods, they economize Washington press luncheon gathering. "I'm sure everyone 
sentative, Butch "don't drown by throwing everything to about One duck is dead and the me" Drake, noted that the fire ten pigs that roam around backagrees th:lt ifthe American people don't know about the bad duck house at Leeper Park duck was probably an act of sabotage there. It's no wonder they geteconomic news, then they won't worry about it and maybe pond is partially destroyed after by the E.G.O. ( Egotistical animals in the food." 
it'll go away." 
a fire took place shortly before Goose Organization). He noted Rumors were circulating7:00pm thts morning. that the geese on the two Notre today that the administration is 
Dame lakes have been very contemplating a change in food 
Real News: 
City firefighters attempted to 
bold lately and seemed to be service companies. One popu­save the house by carrying the 
fire line over the pond to the acting very fishy. No comments lar rumor held that no food could be gained from the service would be hired, and that 
fierce blaze. Damages were
Indiana proposed 
E.G.O. because they were in a students would be forced toestimated in the dollars by 
Hoosier fire chief, Barry closed mating session. cook over open fires on the 
Services will be held Tuesday South Quad. 
as national toilet 
Mallard. 
near the old boathouse at Notre The administration would not
The lone duck died because
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)--An apparently facetious proposal Dame. The duck will be buried confirm or deny the rumor,
he was not awakened by any of
by Minnesota newsman that Indiana become the dumping in a feather lined coffin in the except to say: ''Tell those
the other ducks in the house as
ground of the nation for industrial waste brought an angry middle of St. Joes lake. The suckers to start chopping wood. 
they were fleeing. One frazzled 
retort from a Hoosier legislative leader. 
quacker box shall go down We have to start cutting back
participant quacked that ''With
Bill Farmer, a writer for the St. Paul Pioneer Press, around 3 p.m. on frills. " 
all the honking, nobody thought 
suggested Indiana become the nation's garbage dump for 
that he could stay asleep."

industrial waste. Indiana, Farmer said, "serves, near as we 
can tell, nc other important function.'' 
The next of kiri were notified Senate President J?ro tempore Martin Edwards, R-New 
down near Louisiana. There is 
Electrical fire 
no word as to whether they will "It's one thing for us, as Hoosiers, to call each other 
Castle, said a friend m Wisconsin had sent him the article. 
be able to catch a flight to South names,'' Edwards said. ''When somebody from Minnesota 
Bend in time for the funeral says it, I take great exception." 
levels security office 
ceremontes. 
Ducks on St. Joseph's !ake
He particularlY. objected to Farmer's saying Indiana could 

by I.N. Perno from Planner Food Sales, camebe "kmd of a todet to the nation." 

Hot News Reporter into contact with a frayed electrical cord. Wall said that he reported
Faulty wiring is believed to the fire immediately, but was 
be the cause of a fire which put on hold. While the secuirty IRATUM: The Observer leveled the Notre Dame officers looked on, the blaze wishes to apologize to Student Security office late last night. spread slowly for about twenty Body President Andy McKenna Notre Dame Fire Department minutes before finally engulf­
Iratum 
12:15 RELIGIOUS EVENT on saint joseph lake, for a grievous misquote which units were unable to locate the ing the building. It had burned MEETING WITH A BUSY GOD 
appeared in the Thursday, building in time to prevent its itself out before the fire depart­March 29-Observer. The total destruction. ment arrived.
1 pm MEETING getting to know your parent, FEATURING 
Observer mistakenly quoted 
"We called them (the Fire When questioned about theFR. TED HESBURGH 
McKenna as saying that he 
Dept.) at least fifteen times repeated telephone delays,
"thinks this could
place use over a 35 minute period, but we Burnum quipped "we've got3:30pm PRESENTATION how to fly high WOMBATS 
some changes, by God!" What 
got no response,'' claims better things to do than playASSOCIATION 
McKenna actually said was "I 
Joseph Wall, director of Notre nursemaid to security.''
think Notre Dame is a fine 
Dame security.
5: 15 pm DINNER it takes real courage FOOD SERVICES The mutilated wire believed
place, and I'm proud to be a 
Fire Department SJ?okesman to be responsible for the blaze
member of this sweU commun­
Hu~h Burnum explatned that was part of security's two-way8 pm CONCERT daily rain concert, ND/SMC MARCHING 
ity." The Observer also wishes 
he JUSt didn't know where the radio transmitter. ''That must
KAZOO BAND UNDER THE DIRECTION OF SR. PHilliPS 
to apologize to Student Body 
security office was. ''They have been it," said Wall, "it
Vice-President Mike Roohan 
could have given us some kind has been pretty quiet around12 pm REBElliON f1rst annual break parietals night 
who was also misquoted. 
of directions," he said. here lately." 
SPONSORED BY NO ONE (this is nd, who can sponsor 
Roohan was quoted as respond­
things like that?) 
ing tc-McKenna's above com­The fire apparently broke out Security officers were plan­ment wttl~ "yea, same here!" about 2 a.m. in a back room of ning a celebration later this 
2 am THROAT SESSION who can get the highest gpa? 
Roohan's <-tUOte should have the security office when several month to mark their lOOth yearPREMED SOCIE1Y (bring your own razor blades) read "yea, that too!" Playboy magazines, confiscated of occupancy in the building. 






···-~1 
The Absurder April Fool's Day-page 9 


laughing gas is for, you fool? If ==============================================:::! 
Hall, because,in his words, "Kill ... uhm, bug, a, sex, ur, a, er, attack ... " 
Senior Bore 

Super Specials!!!! 
(for a chan ) e you re waiting us to g1ve you a break, so what better time than April fool's day? 
3 beers for a buck,
today only.....$1.50!! Honest to God 
20¢ drafts,
only 35¢ See if you can win the " Nurd of the Ni 
Student Union 
DEFECTIVE RECORD BREAKING PARTY 
All those defective records will be used as frisbees in a wild free-for-all in the Lafortune ballroom 
admission: one defective rerord or $4.19 
*************************** 
Students jog around Fr. Soring to protest b-ball ticket allotment 
by Rrrolling Wrrrt'terr 
University of Notre Dame juniors and seniors and admin­istrators expressed shock and amazement today as they watched approximately 1 ,000 students jogging around the statue of Fr. Soring in front of the Administration building. The massive jog-a-thon was protest of the reduced number of lower arena season _passes for .basketball games for the commg years. 
UniversitY. president, Sr. Theodora Ph1lips, explained the reason for the cutback, "We felt that by offering more season tickets to faculty mem­bers, we could attract more quality professors and improve the University. It falls under Phase IX of the Campaign for Notre Dame. 
Philips, not fully in control of the athletic department, passed the recommendation along to the ticket manager. 
The manager, who wishes to remain anonymous, confirmed Philips' comments. "Yup, that's what she told me," he 
... Japanese 
[contt'nued form page 7] 
that he tapped on the wall of the 
stall and inquired whether the 
officials had taken into consid­
eration 'in loco parentis'. 
The officials replied by say­
ing, "What do you think the 
this was Yale or some other recognized top ten school, I'll 
bet they wouldn't even bother to gas you--they'd just do it and get it don.~ with in the name of 
progress. 
• • • Plot 
[continued rom page 7] Playboys have got to go!'' State Department officials are expected to arrive from Washington tomorrow to decide Sukiaki's fate, but in the mean­time, he is being housed in a second floor room in Dillon 
said. "We decided that the best way to do it was to give padded seats only to·this year's seniors. After all, many of them got the shaft last year, and we wouldn't want them to completely lose faith in the athletic teams. Although none of them will get football tickets when they graduate, we still want them to send in the minimal $100 contribution and receive applications." 
Many seniors and juniors expressed amazement at the fact that the underclassmen bothered to protest. "They're just not making kids as apa­thetic as they used to,'' one senior was heard to comment. Another offered sympathetic feelings, "What will they do when they lose the lottery for graduation tickets?" 
The juniors tried to explain the futility of protests. ''At least they told you about it 

Noddy Jim Canavan 
..... 



s· i1 "t
lffi aft y 
I f\EALIZ.E: 111AT M~Y OF YOU TfUNKTt115 5'ffifP15~ 1 EXT'REMELY DlJLL... 50ME \\()UL..D : Ro\'!HEft 5~e 7t\'liMY NeWSOME j ·uve 1 N cOCERT "T'HAN Rt=AD , 'TiiiS COMIC.. I DON'T BLAME You, THAT's WHY I'M OOINlioiOSHOW I 'IOU 601111!. SC51eS 'TMM ct).}LON"r 1 "E PffiNTED IN "Ttt!: FlEG&ULAR /55Ue6 oF n1e . , I 
OI5~Ef'IVER. . .~ ,.,,.,T 


before you slept out all night to get a good seat," said one. ''You should be thankful for that." 
Other juniors just shook their heads. "Maybe the threat of not enough seats will scare people and more seats will become available," a boy offered. 
It was rumored that the sophomore class president had planned a sleep-out in the ACC, but was advised against it. ''Those sort of things never get enough support,'' he was told by a knowle<Lgeable upper­classman. 
Student Body President A.G. Soxless refused to comment on the situation. His only state­ment alluded that the students were lucky Philips had taken the time out from her busy schedule to watch the protest. 
The real surprise of the 
[continued on page IOJ 
Riese and Ritger 
TON IGoMT FOI'I 'iOU"' t1AI.F­
. THIS PAPeP\ ISN'T 61Gt EIJOV 
TIME. ENT'Ef\'TAINM!:NT viE 
! FOP\ "TWO STI'\IPS! nilS WIU.. 
HAllE! "!ttE l'f"19 EDrTION OF 'f'O~ 
' TEAcH voo SPINELess 
t1Ufl'TIN~ .. Vti .. DANC.INGI 11'11'51'\ 
I WIMF'S TO SfiOW YOVR 
WITli ASPECIAL TlJIPL..E FEA­
1 FLEA SITTEN FKE~ ~/lD
I 
~~~--~~~~.ro~ 
I-IERE AISIAIH ! 
In an attempt to appease the Old Student Union the Administration created two new spots on the cheerle~din~ squadfor these Irish enthusiasts. [Photo by Doug Butjdht'stj 
The Absurder-April Fool's Day-page 10 
Administration-Students 
• • • Students 
not ready for real -world 
ment condemned Student
[continued from page 9] 
Government for never noticingafternoon came when Philips
NOTRE DAME (AP) As the unreasonable for us to expect the University believes that is is this contingency and using the
tried to enforce the "Seven
hour draws near for a setde-the administrators to see it that a good thing for a place like rule as an excuse not to protest.
Minute Rule". The rule states
ment on the issue of when way." ours to join the real world, they Soxless commented, "I never
that after warning is given, the
Notre Dame will join the real feel that the real world isn't thought of that."
McKenna's comments came students have seven minutes to
world, Student Body President ready for us." Philips expressed surprise at
after a four hour meeting over discontinue a protest before
Andy McKenna said yesterday, McKenna said that he was the students' intelligence in
scotch and waters at the Morris disciplinary action is taken.
''The situation looks real bad ''unsure" ofhow to react to this noticing this imperfection in the
Inn with several University The students refused to obey.
'for the reality side.'' . insight. He reported that when rule. "I haven't really been
officials. 

"I mean, I'm all in favor of asked to clarify the comment, An official statement from around long enough to know 
Notre Dame a place ''They were really helpful in the officials replied that ''we the sophomore and freshman what to do about these things,'' explaining the University posi­need to freshen up our drinks." class officers noted that the rule she said. Philips concluded, tion on this thing,'' McKenna "Now, while I'm not opposed is based on the protest's inter­"The protest itself didn't really said. ''They told me that, while to freshening up-a drink, I feel ference with the operating of bother me. It was the circles 
one should dnnk out of the the University. "Jogging they were running in. I can fly glass before one is ready to around Fr. Sorin~'s statue',' the all over the world and never ~et refresh it,'' McKenna con­statement said, ' does not inter­sick, but watching people JOg cluded. fere in anything." The state-makes me ill." 
Nestle's initiates baby boycott 
the top • by ath­
tn Third World countries 
that had by]imMole Notre Dame is presently mak­Also in the plans are special ing plans for a campus wide "Gorge Days" in which stu­The Nestles Company has referendum to boycott Third dents are asked to horde and 
planned a counter boycott to World Relief Programs. The wast as much food as possible. express their dissausfaction spokesman, Bobby "Crunch" Stephanie ''Quik'' Millstone with public opinion. The inter­Dunbart said, "It's about time says that "Gorge Days" will national corporation intends to Third World Nations took re­probably take place every boycott all Third World Babies sponsibility for their situations. Wednesday evening. Students and even some children of very It is so easy to blame major interested in "Gorge Day" and disadvantaged families in corporations and union for a bus to local candy stores are Europe. poverty. hunger and social asked to call the Nestle Com­The Nestle Community at diseas.es.'' munity of NOtre Dame Hotlint> 




Features 

Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 11 
Myth Qf 

\
Albert·· Camus and The. A,.t oi, Suicide 
· , Chris Stewart, F~atures Editor 
T,his ts the first in a series thtlt detlis With <:;amus · n_o~on of sfli(;ir/eJ as he perf;t',tved the. dilemma in his phi/o­sophu:al freatr.se The Myth of Sisy'­
phus. 
In his book The MytiJ of Sisyphus; Albert Camus demonstrates some of his most intriguing philosphical in· sights. His ideas about absurd thought and what constirutes it are interwoven with the problem of sui• cide. Is suicide a logical step, once the absurd in experienced? Or is · 
suicide:' a regression, an admittance of defeat and failure rather than a genuine metaphysical revolt? l. will examine·Camus' tenets of absurdlsm, and explore the reasons why Camus does not consider suicide a revolt, but rather an acceptance of life in irs mo.st extreme. 
What are the most rudimentary, and most important questions of all? lds those questions whose answers give our life m~aning; those which motivate us to action, those which dirett and guide us in the tourse of our human endt;avors. To Camus, these questions are reduced to one: does life have a meaning? If life is without cause or purpose w the individual, ¢ao he justifiably choose suidd<:? Does his absurd awareness give him the option to die voluntarily? · 
Before .· these reasonably dC:alt eJqJ}Ote~trius' nn1·1nt1t.t>r 

The divers!% ao~r~hy ~qd ni~~~iil$f ..v.. ·~.f·'"'~·'h:· 
lessness lnherept ta <:reatton i Is:·: .p·ar,~icutlat:!:l;'~tt1~eti¢$ii(91Fit it'~l~~ witnes~ed with. detached a;lomp tw .•...a'llvarl"ht~c<.:ii;•fl~·w.n'~ wi 
the absurd man. He is not a(taid; he does not recoil from what he s¢e~;.. he has ~o stak:ein judging or ayoi~il'ltt~ realJJy which only he ·can ~ee. · He looks, to seewhtu th~re is tq Se(!. '····•·.···. ·.·· ....· ·. · · 
Camus explains the ~bsudlni~¢ly. ~ ·· · 
iQextticaply . hound to man and his wo:t:h.t In fact, the matrix from which 
the :absurd arises is that very · r:~latip#sbip of es~rang-ement which .·· man acutely feel§ himself and his 
world.· 
The ~bsurd mind knows that reason 
a.·.. nd···.. ·.·.lo···gi·c·. ..h:.a'Ye.· fa.iled t·.o unjfy and give
lo ~~n the knowledge and under· staothQg that he seeks. "To the ~b$titd , mind, ·~a8on ··is useless aqd ·· th.f:!re ~s .nothing beyond reason·'. The' ... abt>t.ttd. ·man has an appetite for understanding an~ a nostalgia for the ~bsolute whic~ he realizes, as time ~e~ btl, .will nt;vet ~t: fillt:d. It is a gap ·tn.l:l~~ mtnd, his sptrtt, hts very being. 
.·..•.· Absurd man is man withmtt a f):lrure; his life is ~ive~ moment by rn~.!D,~~?t. A f}tture tmpltes hope, and 
tht.S ~~ 1mposstble for the absurd man. Heh~s no hope·in god, in the world in ()t?er$, nor in any philos~phr, or the~ry .t . J!le .absurd man 1s 'he (who) recogmzes the struggle, does not absoJu.relv scorn reason; and admits the .. irratiopal. . 1Jhus, he again em,bra,~~s u1 a s10gle glance all the datf:l <>f .experience and he is little inclined t() leap before knowing. He · knows ••f:>· 1pJy that in""" that alert ~w~ten~$S there is no further place. m 
hq:pe,"··· ..... <...:•. 
Fr. Bill
When Religion Killed God 
Toohey 
I was confronted the other day by a man breathjng 1fire and brimstone. There was rllU Ill quoting of scriptural texts at random. He kept insisting that Jr-sus had snatched us from the hands of an angry God, that He had "bought us back wtth His blood." 
You got the distinct impression that, since people have sinned against God, someone has to be "wasted;" so Jesus takes the rap, and somehow the balance of justice is restored. 
Some have paid an awful price just to make Jesus seem attractive. The Father ends up a wrathful character who needs to be appeased and pacified: who seems to have pre­determined a certain amount of pain His Son must suffer in order to make satisfaction for al the sins of mankind. As though God were a hardcnosed pawnbroker, holding a ticket on us that can be redeemed only with blood. 
What a poisonous image of God: a father somehow pleased by the fact that Jesus' death was such a bloody painful one; a sadistic· god tickled by the suffering of an innocent man. 
Well, if the. Father didn't plan Jesus' crucifixion in that fashion, why did it happen? Was it necessary, indeed, inevitable? 
In offering some reflections and probings at an answer, I am indebted to some truly insightful current theo· logical studies, and especially Fr.John 
Sobrino's Christology at the Cross­
roads. 

These scholars suggest that to say merely that Jesus died according to God's design is much too ambiguous. We do much better to say that Jesus died because He chose to bear faithful witness to God right to the end in a situation where people really wanted a very different type of God. 
This is the crux of the matter. In the last analysis, ) esus is hostile to the religious leaders of His day and is eventually condemned because of His conception of God. More concretely the issue at stake is the way we find access to the true God. 
In the minds of the "religious" people of His day, the priveleged locales for access to God were the temple and cultic worship. But Jesus presented people with a God who stands in complete contradiction to the existing religious situation. His God is distinct from, anc greater than the God of the Pharisees. Ftrst of all,' on the horizontal level, Jesus expands the locale of our access to God enour­mously, no longer maintaining the temple as the priveleged place of such access. In)esus' eyes, the privileged locale of access to God ts people themselves. More specifically, it is the very person constdered most es­tranged from God: the alien, the sinner, the disinherited, the poor, the orphan, the enemy (" ...e_vep ~he least 
Senior Arts Festival 
Visual Arts 
Presenting any group of artworks is a difficult task--varieties of media, theme or lack of theme, degree of skill--all these can make weaknesses glaringly obvious. The Visual Arts presentation of the Senior Arts Festi­val manages to overcome its differ­ences, and offers a varied and interest­ing look at the artwork being created by the seniors. Now on display at the Isis Gallery in the Fieldhouse (Monday 11-1), the works shown have been done by both first-time artists and art majors; because of this, there are some inconsistencies, but the majority of the pieces are quite well-done. 
Kim Gunz 
The arrangement of the show by senior an major Mike Cantwell is careful and logtcal, moving one along, without domination by one piece over another. The stron~est areas are the pen and ink drawmgs, the graphic works, and the oils. 
Of the pen and ink drawings, Meg Auth's use of pattern is' interesting; the compositional arrangement of four separate pieces together makes them work even better. Ann Buzaid offers two drawings, both unusual body perspectives. Bob Clinton and Jim Rusconi show highly detailed, careful drawings of birds, which are also of my brethren" Mt. 25, 35-46). 
This is just half of the mind-blowing that Jesus did by revealing His God. There is also a vertical dimension. The reign of God draws near as a grace, a free gift; not as a matter of justice related to people's good works. Here we find something completely new in Jesus' preaching. Paradoxically enough, it is this teaching of God's kingdom as grace, a free gift, that proves to be the major obstacle for accepting Jesus. Jesus unmasks the effort of "religious" people to ensure themselves against God. They had a perfect system: keep the rules and laws of their religion and that guaran­tees your future, puts a claim on God, who out of justice has to give you our reward. Thus salvation becomes a payoff for righteous behavior. 
It is the radical difference between the god of those "religious" .People and the God of Jesus that explams His tragic end. IfJesus remains faithful in His witness to the true God, then His proclamation of God will necessarily give rise to much conflict; and in the end it willleadJesus to the cross. The condemnation of Jesus indicates that the people saw clearly the option Jesus was proposing to them. They would have to choose between the god of their religion and the God of Jesus, between the temple and human beings, between the security provided by their own good works and the 
well-placed spatially on the paper, preventing them from becoming non­descript studies. 
Mark Bonner's studies studies of interiors and exteriors show a distinc­tive use of pattern and color. 
Sybil Young, working in different medias, offers the greatest variety of topic as well--one an interesting perspective of a ladder, and a lovely drawing called "Butterfly." Hers are perhaps the best graphics grouping by a single artist in the show. 
The oils are the strongest media presented. Phil Whitmer paints landscapes with heavy, obvious brush­
strokes, manipulating unusual colors 
into Cezanne-like pattern. 

Pat O'Brien and Steven Konstant 
also show oils: O'Brien's are carefully !nsecurity of G.:>d's gratuitous coming m grace. 
Jesus'. cross was no accident. It flowed d1rectly from the self-justifying efforts of the ''religious'' person who 
tne? to manipulate God rather than letttng .God remain a mystery. Paradoxtcally as it may seem it was "r~li_gion" that killed Jesus.. '.a false rehg10n that would control God make Hi~ small1 isolate Him in tempies and c';llttc servtces, restrict Him to being a dtsp~nser of rewards that He is forced t~ gtve out of justice and not free to g1ve out of love. 
Jesus would sa-k us from alJ that. 
,Jesus would save us from the ''religion that killed Him. He would save us from giving ourselves to a false god. He would save us by revealing to us by being for us, a completely differen~ sort of God--who serves as the basis fo~ a completely new kind of human eXIstence, where we can rejoice that we can have access to our God as easily as our access to one another· where we rejoice as we hope in a God of surprises ... who ha~ come not for jthose who would try to justify them­selves, but for sinners ... for people who aren't very "religious. " Jusus would save us through His cross and gently call for our loving sll:rrender, by saving us from our bhndness--our blindness to the loving appeals of a God so amazing He loves us even when we kill His Son. 
painted, sterile, arranged; Konstant's are ~tudies of geometnc pattern. 
Mtke Cantwell's oils are varied in subject, but all are done in an almost frantic painting style, energy jumping out from the loose brushwork md the heavy use of the paint. 
The watercolors in the show a:·e the weakest medium presented; ' .aren Tweedell and Renee Salvino she N the best. Mchele Friedl's tiny floral collage is enchanting. 
Overall, the show is good (despite an unusual lack of pencil drawing). The oils at(" outstanding, as well as many of the pen and inks. The Visual Arts presentation is a successful achievement by the seniors, and well worth the time it rakes to wandel' chrough tht: Isis Gallery. 
The Observer 
College 
releases 
course 
booklet 
by Mary Ellen Woods 
The second annual Course Evaluation Booklet will be released April 12, according to Editor-in-Chief Bill Rooney. The information included in the booklet will be helpful in the selection of courses for the Fall Semester 1979. 
The booklet provides evaluations of some 120 courses offered by the College of Arts and Letters (AL). This represents an increase of 3 5 courses from last semester. 
The courses chosen by the 

michGel&co. 

./ 
Hair Concepts 

'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' open late tues.-thurs. 8pm North 1f2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 South 2041 E.lreland at Ironwood master charge visa 291-1001 
21st AnnuGI CollegiGte JGzz FestivGI 
featuting 

Joe Sample Philly Joe Jones Richatd Davis Stanley Tu11entine Buddy Deftanco Dan ffiotgenstetn 
Jethto Butns 

and the nation's best college 
jcuz bands 
Aprfl 6&7 Stepan Center 

Tickets at NDSU arid SMC box offices and the door Fri. Eve. $4.50 Sat. Aft. $2.50 Sat. Eve. $4.00 All session pass $7.50 
WOMEN. YOU'RE EQUAL IN THE AIR FORCE. 
Women start out on the same fooling d' rn<!Jl m Air Force ROTC. Women wear the same msignia and hold the 'arn<' cadet positions 111 AFROTC. just as thev do lato>r on d' Air Force officers 
And the >arne AFROTC scholarship cdn lw your5 n' ,, woman. If you qunlify. you can have vour IU1t1on. b.<.X>k'uJ''' and lab fees paid by thi> Air Force. nnd r"""'"" l> ICXl" rn<>nth for other expenses It helps free vou to roncPntrdt<' em vow educahon. And that\ important 
As an Air Force officer. you'll b<' .-xpP<Il'd tu '"'' v<Hir tr<~m mg and <'ducation. and he a J,.,,der m,mdqlnq pPopl•• .md Ct}mpiPx "'Y~f('fn..., You'll h" httndt1d i'\l'' lJfl\.:1' r''"fl''11"1hd1f\..: .... t.IIIUlY With Vour rn.... l JOb 
It'~ d grt:.>dl way to b~ equaL ctnd ,, qH'cll \A'dV I(' .... t'rvt• VI Jill 
country Check Into the AFROTC program dl •:our ''""P"' 
Be sure to ask about AFROTC scholar>h1p' -vou cn,w h<' 
h~elpmg yourself eam an exciting neiA' hf<',tvl•• 
Contact: Captain Davis or Captain Norris 283·6634 0 
HOTC 
Gateway to a great way of l1fe. 

Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 12 
editorial staff were "Recommended University Electives." Rooney stressed that these courses are not directed toward AL majors, but 
• are generally of interest to students across the University. 
The evaluations use a five­point analysis: content, preparation, organization, comments and reading list. The professor teaching a course is asked to provide factual information about the course. A student who has taken the course is contacted for comments about the nature of the course and a personal reaction to it. 
The courses were given a 
· h

numerical rating, 1 to 5, Wit 5 being the highest rating, in staff was concerned with each AL department that lent itself to objective evaluation, with the exception being General Program, Collegiate Seminar, Classical and Modern Languages. 
"We evaluated courses form 14 departments, including Communications, Theater and Film, formerly Saint Mary's Speech and Drama department,'' Rooney noted .. 
The Course Evaluation Book­let is financially supported by, the Student Government. As editor of the booklet, Rooney thanked his staff of over 90. people and his assistants, Dav9 Niels and Mary Ellen Woods. r 
"Without their help, this fine; 
service would never have been Jossible. '' 
addition to the student's, gratuities from South l<orean Gov. Edwin Edwards and the personal comments. Rooney nee dealer Tongsun Park and governor's brother, Marion Ed­stressed the objectivity of the charg~s of tax evasion and wards. evaluations as an aid in the consptracy. ''It's great to be a citizen o selection of courses. When the iury verdict was the greatest nation, on earth,'
''The Course Evaluation announced, Passman jumped he said. Booklet is an informational l!P and hugged his attorney' 
U.S. DistrictJudge Earl Verno 
Camille Gravel of Alexandria,
service to students," according L 
turned the case over to the ju to Rooney. "Our concern was ~it's perfectly obvious that I of nine men and three women at to present a reliable source of am extremely pleased," said . 4:28p.m. CST after reminding information to the students as the ailing 78-year-old former them that any verdict must be they select courses for the congressman, who was de­unanimous and that punish coming semester." scribed _by hi!? a.ttorney as "an ment should not enter into theit 
This semester, the editorial unknowmg victun of an evil deliberations. staff wanted to extend the ===~~=====================II 
service to the College of Busi­
ness. However, they found 
only one course that was 
• • • Senior Ba 
definitely being offered as an elective. Rooney expressed his [continuedfrom pal{e 1] statement is completeddisappointment m this, but 
were lowereu this year. Schlageter stated that the b
recognized the financial and ''The students have really managers were considerinstaff limitations of the Business had a 'special' all year long 
using approximately 75 percen
department. He strongly 
because we decided to lower 
of this year's profit to set upsuggests further inquiry into the price of a beer to $.40. 

trust fund for a new bar. Ththe difficult dilemm;' present in Additionally, we run specials other 25 percent could be usethe Business College. 
almost every week of the year,'' 
to renovate the eresent bar bThough they could not survey Schlageter commented. 
replacing worn floors, carpetsthe Business department, Although profit figures will and paneling.
Rooney emphasized that his not be released until the March 
"I think it is important t begin thinking ahead in regard. 
------------------------------, 
to the future of the bar. W SMC student government sponsors we.re. very lu_cky to ge~ this 
bUildmg, but It IS ncit gomg to last forever," Schlageter said:" women's Qpportunity week He added, "We have con­
sidered setting up a trust fund because the bar must be(WOW): Celebrating Women thought ofas a continuum from 
year to year.''

in the Arts For the future, the Senior Bar managers are presentlyMonday April 2 working on a plan to publicize, the bar's profit statements
7:45 am film:Antonia :Pcrtrait of the Woman throughout the year. ·~ Schlageter stated that he felt
(produced by Judy Collins) Dining Hall 
once the students are made aware of ~oals and operational
4-5pm presentation: feminist humor Gloria complexities of Senior Bar, the students will be able to under­
Kaufman, author Stapleton 
stand periodic financial state­ments of the bar. This public
7pm Women as Visual Artists: Margottof 
financial statement will include the managers salaries, profits,
232 Moreau 
credits, and the assets of the bar.
10 pm film: Antonia: Portrait of the Woman Dining Hall 
L------------~---------------­
I 
I 
Jury ·clears Passman 
MONROE, LA. (AP)--Former Korean conspiracy.'' 
Congressman Otto Passman 
was found innocent yesterdaY. Passman stood on the court­on all counts of acceptmg illegal house steps flanked by Gravel, 
. Assembly 
[continued from page 1) these proposals to this hall as best I could," Mitchell said. Nominations for these posi­tions are extended to midnight on Thursday, April 5 because of the investigation by the Assem­bly into the Mitchell proposals. Students interested in running for office must follow regular campaign and election proce­dures as defined by the Boar,E of Governance. However, Au­gusta Hall revisions stipulate that the candidates must run on 
an  independent  ticket.  This  
differes  from  normal  proce­ 
dures  in  other  halls.  The  

Assembly voted affirmatively on this proposal. 
. "Although the Augusta Hall Council has functioned ex­tremely well this year based on the old policies, I still believe that the Council could achieve more with a steadier founda­tion,'' Mitchell said. 
---------~--~ ---­
----1 
~~~----------------------~--------~---------------------------­
The Observer Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 13 
uH•u•.u•x a rocket about to be the crane at the sy Hall site is 
another day's work. 
n.a."-'t''"" to 0 'Shaughnessy which should be complete this year, wtll house a new and various other reno­[Photo by john Macor] 
Hawk assumes office as new OBUD director 
by Donna Teevan 
] eff Hawk, a junior manage­ment major, took office yester­day as the 1979-1980 Ombuds­man (OBUD) director. He was selected March 14 by OBUD's four-member Steering Committee. 
Hawk, a native of Lima, OH, stated that his main objective as OBUD director will be ''to make the community more aware of OBUD and what it can do for them." He declined to mention any specific proposals, saying that they would have to be approved by the Steering Committee. 
Also beginning terms yester­day were the members of OBUD's 1979-1980 Steering Committee: Tom Browne Ti~ Hamiltc;m and Kelly Qumn. Hawk 1s the chairman of the committee. 
According to former Director T0m ~mwne, the committee members are usually chosen from. a~.ong the organization's 10 dtvtston heads who are in charge of areas such as personnel, community relations and complaints. 
' 
The director and Steering Committee will serve a one­year term ending April1, 1980. Browne pointed out that this is the first time that a definite term has been established. ''The Steering Committee decided at the beginning of the semester to create a fixed term that would coincide with those of Student Government and the Student Union," he said. 

The 15 5 member OBUD service provides campus information and investigates student complaints and suggestions. It also conducts the elections for Student Government and class officers. 
Program accepts applications 
The Centre Europeen 
D'Echanges Universitaires 
(CEEU) in Brussels has an­
nounced a program of grants­
in-aid for American college 
juniors, seniors and graduates 
whose records and previous 
French studies qualifies them 
for admission to one of the 
universities of Paris for a year 
of academic studr. abroad. 
The grants wtll amount to 
$500 per year per student. 
The deadline for the com­
pleted application, which must 
mclude a Demande d'InscriJ,>­
tion a l'Universite de Paris, ts 
April 15. A letter stating the 
applicant's full name, birth­
date, birthplace, permanent 
address, college year and 
major, along with 28 cents in 
stamps must be submitted to: 
CEEU, P.O .. Box 50, New Paltz, 
NY, 12561. · 
Writing Workshop for SMC. Observer Staff 
Tuesday night April 3 7:00pm 
SMC office-Basement of Regina South MANDATORY Two N.D. staffers will conduct th'3 meeting 

LOYOLA UNIVERSITY The Graduate School of Business Offers An Evening MBA 
• 
12 course program for undergraduate business administration majors 

• 
16 course program for undergraduate non-business administration majors 

• 
Classes meet once a week. Study full or part-time. 

• 
Enter any quarter in Summer, Autumn, Winter or Spring. 

• 
Applications now being accepted for the Summer and Autumn 1979 

• 
School Representative will be on campus April 3rd.


·.liWLLOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
820 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60611 
TELEPHONE: 312/670-3140
~ II> We are an equal opportunity educator/employe• 

Dr. Bergin to serve on national arts council 
The appointment of Dr. tions on grant applications. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of Bergin has served seven years Continuing Education at Not.re on the Indiana Arts Commis­Dame, to the National Council sion, three of them as chair­on the Arts has been announced man. For four years he was by President Carter and Third chairman of the Naitonal En­
District Congressman ] ohn dowment's Artists-in-Sc..hools Brademas, sponsor of the nom­program and is currently a 
ination. member of the Task Force on The council includes the Arts in Education sponsored by chairman of the National En­the National Foundation. He is 
dowment for the Arts, Livin~s­also a member of the Rocke­ton Biddle, and 26 distin­feller Panel which produced the guished private citizens who recent report, "Coming to our 
are recognized for their know­Senses." ledge and expertise in the arts. Brademas praised Bergin for The council advises the Nation­"his particular contribuuon to al Endowment on policies, pro­furthering the role of the arts in cedures and programs in addi­our schools, colleges and uni­
tion to maktng recommenda-versities." 
SOCCER ACTION!!! 
----~------------------------­
Purdue University vs. University of Notre Dame 
----------------~------------· 
Date: Sunday, April 22 location: Hanover Central High Cedar lake, Ind. Time: 1:30 
nck•t Donations advanc•d 11.50 at th• door 12.00 wtiW for tlck•ta C~at l.ak• JaycMa P .0. Sox 491 C•dat Lak•, Ind. 46303 

BE RECONCILED WITH YOUR PARENTS 
''Between experiencing and having experienced--the mom­ent when the experience yields its last secrets. A moment we only ~is~over is already past when cracks and stains appear, the gtldmg flakes off, ana we wonder what it was that once so attracted us. '' 
:'Your position never gives you the right to command. It only 
tmp<?ses on you the duty of so Jiving your life that others can 
recetve your orders without being humiliated.'' 

an 
campus
miniStry 

SUGGESTIONS: This is letter-writing week. Even if you call FIFTH home, surprise your parents and send a letter also. Compliment them; thank them. Attend an evening liturgy in WEEK your hall. Offer your intentions for your parents. Buy your ~randparents some Notre Dame giftIsouvenir. Show an 
IN LENT mterest in one of your profs, as a parent, and ask about his/her family and home experiences. Listen to Cat Stevens: FATHER & SON. Listen to Crosby, Stills and Nash: TEACH YOUR CHILDREN. Listen to Jackson Browne: DADDY'S TIJNE. 
The Observer Monday, Apri12, 1979-page 14 
Khomeini proclaims Iran a republic 

TEHRAN, Iran (AP) ­Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini triumphantly proclaimed Iran -an Islamic republic yesterday, announcing that the "yes" votes of millions of Iranians in a referendum had created the nation's first "government of God.'' 
The 78-year-old Shiite Moslem leader, who led the struggle tht toppled Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's regime in mid-Febr,Jary, said his countrymen had V'lted "to 
, establish a government of righteousness and to overthrow and bury rhe monarchy in the garbage c::u: of history.'' Khomeini's victot v state­ment, read by an ,announcer 
over Tehran radio, contrasted with continued concern by the revolutionary authorities over unrest amon~ the nation's large ethnic minonty groups. 
Prime Minister Mehdi Bazar­gan, head of the Khomeini­appointed provisional govern­ment, warned rebellious turko­man tribesmen in the north eastern city of Gonbad-e­Qabous yesterday that if the bloody week-old fighting there did not cease he would send in government troops tomorrow morning to restore order. 
A government spokesman warned, meanwhile, that new trouble was brewing in Arab­populated Khuzestan province. 
Khomeini said the nation-
THIS IS ~T A.S BAP 

wide referendum Friday and Saturday gave "unanimous" approval to an Islamic republic. But this apparently was not meant literally, since early returns over the weekend indicated a small number of Iranians voted against establishing an Islamic republic, which has still not been fully defined. 
State raio and television said yesterday preliminary results showed 18 million voted "yes." An estimated 18.7 million had been eligible to vote. Scattered early reurns from provincial towns showed 99. 7 percent of the voters in favor of an Islamic republic. 
As the results were 

announced, some motorists in downtown Tehran flashed their headlights to show approval. But most citizens seemed to take the news as a foregone conclusion. A Tehran bazaar merchant told a reporter, ''Of course I expected it because it was obvious. This is what the people had a revolution for." 
The Moslem religious leader Khomeini had sought to oust the shah because, among other reasons, his Western-style modernization of Iran ran counter to traditional Islmaic values. 
At one voting booth in a middle-class section of Tehran, support for the republic ran at only about 70 percent, according to officials watching the balloting Saturday. 
A young wom~n studt>ot there said she voted ''no' ' because she wanted "a simple democratic republic.'' 
''Why does it have to be bound by the word 'Islamic'?" she asked. 
Several Iranians interviewed yesterday expressed fear that the Islamic republic would mean turning back the clock in Iran and limiting the freedom of women -notions that Khomeini has tried to dispel with only mixed success. 
Some voters complained about ·having to cast their ballots in full view of revolutionary officials and said registration procedures were erratic. 
Tallarida to head ISA office 

The appointment of Fr. Thomas C. Tallarida as director of International Student Affairs at Notre Dame has been an­nounced 0y Fr. John L. VanWolvlear, vice president for Student Affiars. The office provides services and coun­seling for some 300 students from more than 60 foreign nations at the University. 
Formerly directed by the late Fr. Danie1 J. O'Neil, the office in LaFortune Student Center has been managed during the last year by Betty Fitterling, who will continue to serve in an advisory capacity under the new direcrc,r. 
Tallarida is currently rector of Zahm Hall and is a former director of Off-Campus Hous­ing and has been active in Campus Ministry and as direc­tor of staff services. 
The appointment to the new position is effective April 2. 
KENMAR, INC. 
has T-shirts at the lowest prices on campus 

Need a shirt for your Dorm or Oub? Tired of"High Prices? 
contact ANTHONY TOTARO 
516 Flanner 4684 
quality sportswear at Unbeatable Prices 



I., 
assis 



A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant represents rr,;;:-wy::;Ass;:;;-;;r:;;;-m---------~~the mark ofquality and acceptance In today's legal 
l ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY • ~ 17community. 
I 430 South Michigan Avenue .~ I If you are a college graduate and qualify. why not give 1Chicago. Illlools 60605 I yourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt I(3121341-3882 __, · · 1 
University's Lawyer's Assistant Program which Is fully­1Please send me Information on Roosevelt's Paralegal Iaccredited by the American Bar Association. 
1Program. , , : I Since the Fall of 1974. 1250 graduates representing 
1 Day Pt:ograms · I 
over 230 colleges and universities have chosen 

OSummeri979-Junell-Augpst31 j
Roosevelt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career I 
0 f'aiU979-September 24-December 14 I training. I 0 !;>prlng 1980-February ll-~ay 2 I 
Speciall7e In: Corporations-Estates. Trusts and I Evening Programs Wills-Litigation-Real Estate and Mortgages­I D Fall-Winter-September 11-Manh '· 1980 1 Employee Benefit Plans•-or become a Generalist•. I OSprlng~su.mmer..,-March II'August 22. .1980 I 
Over 325law firms. banks. corporations and 

I Name I 
government agencies throughout the United States 
I
have hired Roosevelt graduates. IAddress Phone I Cllv Stale ----Ztp ------~ 
Question and answer st-ssions for prospective appli­
I Ro~sevelt University admits students on the basis of 
cants will be Wednesday. May 9 at 5:30P.M. and Satur­
I Individual merit and without regard to race. color. creed. sex. I 
day. May 19 and June 2 at I 0 A.M. For Information call 
I or physlcal.~~cap~-___________j
341-3882, 'eventngprogramonly 
' .. . '1 . . ·. . . :. . . ~ ' . . ' ' . . ' ' : . ,, . ".· ' . . . .. . . . 
The Observer -Sports Monday, April 2, 1979 -page 15 

---~-­
~~ 
Snorts 
ln ou~J~)or opener 
Tracksters take nine firsts 
by Mark Perry 5j>fJrts Editor 
Although their times were hampered some by. the lingering effects of a South bend winter, the Notre Dame track team turned in a solid performance in their first out­door meet of the season, the non-scoring Notre Dame Open, held last Saturday on the brand new all-weather track at Cartier Field. 
The Irish took first in nine events, and placed one runner in the top six in all but one of the twenty events contested. 
''The meet was very satis­fying,'· commented Irish Head Coach Joe Piane. "The guys really competed well and turned in some good early season performances.'' 
Chuck Aragon was the only two-time winner for Notre Dame taking the 800 meter run in 1:55.56, and serving on the winning 4 x 400 meter relay team. Jay Miranda, Jacques Eady, and Jim Christian com­bined with Aragon to win that event in 3:24.56. 
In the field events, Tom Ferenc took the top spot in the shot pur, with ,a winning toss of 51 feet, 8 5I 8 inches. Ahmad Kazimi led -a group of four Notre Dame placers in the triple jump, winn{ng with a leap of47 feet 11 1/f inches. The Irish swept both of the hurdli:1g events, as Arnie Gough had an easy victory in 
Netters stun Badgers in 6 3 upset romp 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 
The Notre Dame tennis team stunned the highly-touted Bad­gers of Wisconsin yesterday, upsetting the Big Ten's second-ranked team, 6-3. The Bad-
In other three-set matches, second-seeded Carlton Harris downed Rob White, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4, and number six Tom Robison came back to defeat Rusty Muenz, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
In the doubles competition, Notre Dame's top-ranked team 
gers, last season's triregional of Hoyer and Harris pulled off a 
representative in the NCAA tournament, took two of three doubles matches but could win only one of the . six singles competitions against the in­spired Irish. 
"After we lost to Michigan (last Wednesday), 9-0, we thought we'd be in big trouble," said Irish coach Tom Fallon, "but today we bounced right back. Our kids played very well today and just put everything together." 
The Irish, who had lost this year's two previous matches against Big Ten foes (at Ohio State, 8-1, and Michigan, 9-0), won the key sets, taking four of the five three set matches. 
Notre Dame's top-seeded Mark Hoyer was the only one to lose in singles competition, falling to Wisconsin's All-Amencan candidate Ken Tho­mas, 6-4, 6-2. But the Irish took che other five singles matches from the visiting Badgers. 
Notre Dame's most convincing win of ::-he afternoon was by sophomore Herb Hopwood. Playing in the number three position, Hopwood defeated Wisconsin's senior co-captain Mark Klinselhoets, 6-4, 7-5. Irish captam Mark Trueblood also won his match in two sets, defeating Dave Pelisek in the number four spot. After win­
l ~ 
ning the first set, Trueblood needed a tie-breaker to take the second set, 7-6. Irish freshman Tom Harzell 
i I downed Dick Browne in three 
I sets in what proved to be che 
I -most exciting match of the day. In the first set, Hartzell won a tie-breaker, 5-2. Browne Turned the tables on his oppo­nent in another thrilling set, winning a tie-breaker, 5·3. But Hartzell bounced back in the third and deciding set to take the match, 7-6, 6-7, 6-3, thrilling 7-6, 2-6, 6-3 upset of Wisconsin's top combo of Rhys Tomhas and White, but the Badgers took the other two doubles matches. Ken Thomas and Pelisek crushed Notre Dame's second team of Bob Koval and Trueblood, 6-1, 6-1, and Klingelhoets and . Muenz Bot by Hopwood and Btl! Pratt tn three sets 6-3, 3-6, 6-2. 
"We're just taking this win in stride," added Fallo_n. "We feel very good about tt, but we can't jump to the conclusion that we're going to knock-off everybody else.'' 
The Irish netters hope to improve on their 5-6 record when they host Butler on Tuesday afternoon at 3:00p.m. The Irish dumped the Bulldogs last season, 9-0. 
Notre Dame 6, 
WtSConsin 3 
SINGLES 

No.1· K. Thomas (WI) del. Hoyer, 6-4, 6-2. No.2· Harris (ND) del. White, 6·3, 4·6, 6-4. No. 3 • Hopwood (ND) del. Klingel· ~oets, 6-4, 7·5. . No.4· Trueblood (ND) del. Pelisek, 6-4, 7·6. No. 5· Hartzeil (ND) def. Browne, 7·6, 6-7, 6-3. No. 6 • Rorison (ND) def. Muenz, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
DOUBLES 

No. 1 • Hoyer and Harris (NO) def. R. Thomas and White, 7·6, 2·6, 6-3. No.2· K. Thomas and Pelisek (WI) def. Koval and Trueblood, 6-3, 3-6, 6-2. No. 3 • Klingelhoets and Muenz (WI) def. Hopwood and Pratt, 6-3, 3-6, 6-2. 
the 110-meter highs in 14. 53 seconds, and Tim Twardzik won the 400-meter inte_rmediates in 
55.66 seconds. 
Kris Haines, having com­pleted his football career at Notre Dame, continued his success in track, as he won the 
100-meter dash tn 10.81 seconds. 
In the distance events, Joe Strohman was the winner in 1500-meters in 3:56.08, and Chris Lattig took the 5000­
meter race in 14:54.7. 
Placing second for Notre Dame were Ed 'Bomber (10,000­meter run), Jim Christian (400­meters), Jeff Anderson (100­meters), and Perry Stow (pole vault). 
Thirds went to George Lang 
(hammer), Jacques Eady (triple 
jump), Mike Maney (300­
meter steeplechase), Twardzik (110-meter hurdles), Pete Burger (1500-meters), Walter White (200-meters), and Jeff Anderson (long jump). · 
The next meet for the Irish will be April 7, as they travel to Terre Haute, IN, to face the 

Sycamores of Indiana State. [Photo by john Macor] 
In lv. L. West 

Dodgers, Giants poUJerhouses 
Monday, April 2, 1979-page 16 
AhmadKazimi leapedto a win in the tnplejump with 47 feet, 11 114 inches at the first outdoor meet at home this season. 

The National League's Western Division shapes up as a tooth-and-nail struggle between bitter rivals Los Angeles and San Francisco. The loss of a few vital cogs to last year's pen-drive many leave the big Dodger in the Sky blue, because the Giants have overwhelming starting pitching and a line-up capable of exploding. The Reds are still better than the rest, although age, infirmities and free agentry have made them the shortest-lived dynasty in memory. Even if Gaylord Perry gets another twenty-win season out of his venerable wing, the Padres should stumble a bit and join Houston and Atlanta among the division's chaff. 
Giants 

Three of the four starters (Vida Blue, Bob Knepper and Ed Halicki) were among the top fifteen in ERA; if they_ get into trouble, Gary Lavelle and RAndy Moffitt are at the ready. San Francisco's acquisition of Bill North gives the Jints needed speed, provided he can htt 1260 in the leadoff sport. Mike Ivie, who may become one of the g~e's top sluggers, has replaced 41-year old Willie McCovey at first base. With .300 hitters Jack Clark and Bill Madlock around, as well as power-hitting Darrell Evans, and confidence instilled by last year~ run at the flag, they may have just enough to overhaul die Dodgers. 
Dodgers 

The Dodgers line-up remains set, a good sign for any team. And, there's no reason to think Steve Garvey, Davey Lopes, Reggie Smith, Ron Cey and the rest of the Angelenos will tail off appreciably. Still, there's the loss of seventeen game winner Tommy John to overcome, as well as the. defection of hard-hitting utilityman Lee Lacy to Pittsburgh. Lasorda may be counting too heavily on Andy Messersmith to pick u.P the slack created by John's void. While this ts still one of the game's most solid teams, they may 
not quite upstarts.  be able to  catch those Northern  
Reds After  a  season  that  saw  3,000 hits  and  a  

forty-four game batting streak, Rose is gone; Johnny Bench is no more than a shadow of his old MVP form; Joe Morgan, at 35, comes off a year plaBued by ailments and the starting pitching ts almost non-existent behin.d Seaver. Still, the outfield looks strong, being patrolled 
Mike Henry 


by George Foster, Cesar Geronimo and Ken 
Griffey, and Dave Concepcion and Dan Driessen 
are sturdy at shortstop and first base. The 
abysmal staff, however, should preclude Cin­
cinnati from contending. 
Padres 
The most familiar sight to Padre fans last year was that of Rollie Fingers entering a tight ballgame, puttinB out the fire, and helping spur San Diego to thetr best season. His consistency throughout his career has been awesome. Perry, Randy Jones and young Bob Owchinko comprise a capable nucleus, but the club is too thin ·in all departments to be a serious threat. Dave Winfield, ] erry Turner and Gene Richards spearhead an aggressive outfield, and Winfield could be due to explode and join the Parkers and Fosters. 
Astros 
Every year, it seems, we marvel at the young talent on Houston, only to see them do a prompt el foldo. It's a team with little power (Bob Watson led the club with 14 homers). A club that cannot rely on too many big innings. Unfortunately, most of the staff, with the exception ofstrikeout kingJ .R. Richard and Ken Forsch will need plenty ofruns to work with. If Cesar Cedeno can bounce back, the Astros will have five potential .300 batters (Cedeno, Tery Puhl, Jose Cruz, Watson and agile third baseman Enos Cabell). However, Houston seems destined to fight it out with Atlanta to remain out of the cellar. 
Braves 
Bob Horner's return to the club will at least give hun_Bt}' Atlanta fans something to cheer about. Jeff Burroughs is capable of another 23-homer .300 year, and there is some/ood young talent with Glenn Hubbard at secon and Brian Asselstine in the outfield. Age cannot diminish the fanciful flutterings of Niekro's knuckler, eicher, but. everyting else points to last place for the playthmg of Ted Turner. 






