
~-----------------------~--------------, 
, , , 'Shame ofIran ' -page 5 

VOL. XIV, NO. 50 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1979 

the 'fuost under-reponed 'efime because of fear of the attacker, 
Schools confer on Iranian students 
Carter bars future Iraniart oil itnports 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Pre~i­dent Carter halted oil imports from Iran yesterday, declaring that Amenca will not bow to economic pressure or terrorism in its efforts to protect "the lives of our people" held hos­tage at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
Carter said he was cutting off Iranian oil imports, which a¢­count for at least 4 percent @f daily American consumption, ''to eliminate any suggestion that economic pressures cain weaken our stand on basic issues of principle.'' 
He said the Iranians who have held the embassy and 60 Americans hostage since Nov. 4 are trying ''to force unaccept­able demands on our country.'' 
The students occupying the embassy have demanded that the United States surrender the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi for trial as a war criminal. The shah is hospital­ized in New York for cancer treatment. 
The president said it is vital to the United States and the world that diplomatic personnel be protected, "and that we refuse to permit the use of terrorism and the se.izure and the holding of hostages to impose political demands." 
Responding to visa issue 
By Mary Fran Callahan StaffReporter 

In response to President Car­ter's recent order for the valida· tion of Iranian student visas, major universities of the mid~ west have scheduled .a confer" ence of foreign advisors to be held Thursday at Purdue Uni­versity. The schools are exper­iencing difficulties in locating accurate records on the status of their international students' visas. Notre Dame had not encountered this probl·em. 
According to Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of Interna­tional Student Affairs, all pro-, cessing of student visas is done by the American consulates in! the respective foreign coun-' tries. In order for a foreign student to be educated in the United States, he must first be accepted at an Ameri<:an uni­versity. In order to gain accept­ance, aside from the standard criteria, he must also prove that he is financially capable of paying his tuition bills. Should a university accept a student, it would then send him an 1-20 form which is a student: visa. 
"Many schools send out I­20's like they were candy : bars," Tallarida said, "in order to keep enrollment up.'' 
Notre Dame, however, is much more judicious in its 
U.S. officials said earlier in the day that there had been no apparent change in the condi­tion of the American hostages. 
In his statement, nationally broadcast from the White House press room, Carter said, • ''No one should underestimate the resolve of the American government and the American people in this matter." 
He then ordered a ban on the purchase of ''any oil from Iran for delivery to this country." He said the move must he part of an international effort to secure release of the American hostages. 
In announcing the ban on Iranian oil, Carter warned that his action will present a ''real challenge" to the nation and will test American strength and determination. 
He said he has asked the Energy Department to develop conservation measures and promised to work for fair and equitable distribution of short fuel supplies. 
The White House is consider­ing asking the nation's govern­ors to attend a meeting in Washington this week where President Carter would discuss conservation steps that would reduce oil consumption. 
Carter said: "America does 
distribution. "We act as an agent of the federal govern­ment when we issue the 1-20," Don Bishop, Admissions coun­selor commented. According to Bishop, 38 I-20's were sent out the past year. Thirty-six new international students are cur­rently at Notre Dame on those visas. Bishop said that the rwo l-20's were promptly voided when the applicants chose not to attend Notre Dame. 
'Many schools send out !-20's like they were candy bars... ' 
Once the student is at the 
U.S. university, the responsibil­ity for maintaining accurate records for the Immigration Authorities lies in the univer­sity's hands. Thursday's con­ference involves all the major universities from Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky. Since the uni­versities are not able to locate accurate records on the starus of their international students' visas' many international stu­dents are in limbo. 
"It's not the most organized system,'' Tallarida commented. "The immigration authorities have no computerized records and there is also a shortage of manpower. So they get all their information ricocheted from the schools' records," he explain­ed. 
One Iranian citizen who is currently studying at Notre Dame had his visa expire in August. He promptly requested a renewal in September. Though he has not yet been notified by the American Con­sulate, Talla.rida said the stu­dent is in no danger of being deported since the request was filed. The only dilemma is that the student may not return to Iran until his visa arrives. Should he return to Iran without a valid visa, he would not be able to leave the country. 
' The other Iranian student at N_otre Dame possesses a valid ViSa. 
Since all normal operations 

have  been  curtailed  at  the  
seized Tehran  Embassy,  no  
visas  can  be  processed.  No  

Iranian students then can apply for student visas to leave their country. 
Bishop comme~ted, '_'The biggest problem mt~rnano~al students have here ts gettmg in.'' Citing the fact that the prospective students are legally 
· required to prove th~t they ar.e 
financially sound, Btshop mdt­
cated that the foreign appli­
·Security defends rape map 

1 1 
by Rosemary Mills 
Editor~in-Chief 

j 
"To the best of my know­ledge, the information chat is 

1
reported on the map is reason­

l j
ably accurate," stared Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame 
• security. Terry made this state­ment regarding the aUeged inaccuracy ofa map plotting the locations of rapes during the 

past ten years on campus. James Roemer, dean of stu­dents, and Terry met yesterday with representatives of under­graduate ancl graduate women from both ND and Saint Mary's. The group pondered the pos­sibility that students who had been raped were not reporting the incidents co security. A discussion of the procedures followed when a rape occurs ensued. Susan Tamborini, director of Holy Cross Hall and director of face a difficult task and a test. ed ami-Iranian incidents across the SMC Rape Awareness Pro­Our response will measure our the country. gram, also attended the meet­character and our courage. I He urged Americans to keep mg. Tamborini, who did post­know that we Americans will calm ''despite the intensity of graduate study on the subject of nor fail." our emotions." He added: "The rape, explained how important He praised Americans for lives of our people in Iran are at it was that students be aware of their restraint, despite scatter-stake.'' what to do if they are raped. "We urge the students co inform their resident assistant (RA) or hall director,'' she stated. Tamborini said that rape is 
Two jovial domers, one atop the other, wave to their admiring fans. [photo by Greg Maurer 1 
Begin government·toses major Parliament vote 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Prime Minister Menachem Begin's 
government lost a maior Parliament vote yesterday on the issue of 
restricting abortions, throwing it into a seriOus political crisis. 
The ultra-orthodox religious party Agudat Israel had threatened to leave the Begin coalition if it were defeated on the abortion issue. The withdrawal would bring down the government. Its leader said a decision would be announced today. 
The defeat came on a breathtaking roll-call vote curring across party lines. The Knesset deadlocked 54-54 with rwo abstentions on the government bill, which would have removed from the abortion law a clause permitting abortions for social and economic reasons. 
"The bill has not been accepted," Knesset Speaker Yitzhak Shamir announced, raising cheers from the opposition labor p trty at the end of a raucous debate. 
The new crisis was the latest in a series of political troubles plaguing Begin's government-concerning settlements in occupied Arab territories, a Cabinet reshuffle and the resignation of Moshe Dayan as foreign Minister. 
Dayan, who does not belong to any political party, voted against the government on the abortiOn bill. The Agudat Israel party regarded the liberal clause in the 
abortion  law  as  a  violation  of  Orthodox  religious  law  and  
demanded  a  change  as  the  price  of its  support  of Begin's  
government.  

cants tend to come from weal­thy families. "We have very little problem here. The stu­dents that apply to Notre Dame are generally stable, serious students,'' Bishop explained. 
embarrassment, or knowledge of the attacker. Roemer concur­red with Tamborini that accu­rate reporting of rapes must go down to the student level. 
According to Tamborini, 
[continued on page 2] 


-, 
News in brief  Tuesday, November 13, 1979-page 2  
Iranian student held for fatal shooting ofyouth ) DENVER (AP) -While the governor urged Colorado residents ro ''stay calm,'' District Attorney Dale Tooley said it could be romorrow before he decides what charges, if any, ro file against an Iranian held in the shooting death o~ a 1 )-\·ear-old high school boy. Two other youths, who pollee said were looking for "S'ome Iranians to hassle," were wounded in the shooting Sunday, which followed several da\'s of demonstrations in Denver and Boulder over the seizure of American hostages at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. :\f-;hin Shariati. 21, a student at Loretro Heights College, was heing held in the city jail. Tooley said Shariati would be advised of his rights at a hearing today. "We're rmTstigating a possihle homicide, a possihle burglary and ... ,·n·ral other matters." Tooley said. Pacer production halts; .new Eagle model soars DETRIOT (r\P) -American Motors Corp. will end production of it<; tubby Pacer model Dec. 3 to increase production of its new four-~ heel drive cars by 60 percent, the compan\' announced yesterday. AMC said it would boost production of the four-wheel drive Eagle models at its Keno.;;ha. WI.. assembly plant from 250 to 400 a day. Spokesman John Pichurski said a "moderate" number of new emplovees would be hired, but could give no immediate figures. 'rhc Pacer, introduced in 1975, has been in increasingly less demand in recent years. Brown reimposes odd-even gas sales;promotes solidarity LOS ANGELES (AP) · Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. said yestcrC....ty he will reimpose odd-even gasoline sales in ·California next week in a show of "solidarity" with President Caner's plan to halt the import of Iranian oil. Brown, a candidate for the 19RO Democratic presidential nomination, said he supports Carter's action and will not try to second-guess the president while the 60 Americans are being held hostage at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. Weather Mostlv cloud\· wirh a chance for light snow today. High twar 40.· Parrk' cloud\· tonight. Low riear 30. Mostly sunny tomorrow. High near 40.  [continuedfrom page 1J SMC relies heavily on the hall director and RA to assist the victim of a rape. The hall director notifies security of the place and time the rape 9ccur­ed, but then devotes herself to Panel to discuss 'Medicine' ''Alternative Careers in Medi­cine" is the topic of a panel discussion to be held tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in Room 106 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Discussants include Susan Grace -­Nurse Practitioner; KathleeQ Mcinerney-­Nurse, Administrator; AI Miller -­Nurse, Clinical specialist; Bro. Frederick Raehsler, Physician Assistant; and Barbara Wood­ward -­Nurse Practitioner. Students of ALL majors are cordially invited and encourage to attend what promises to be a most informative program. Observer. Night Editor: Rod Beard Asst. Night Editor: Bill Kee­nan, Cindy Kliros, Ryan "no doz'' Ver Berkmoes Copy Editor: Tom Jackman News Editor: Mike Shields Editorial Layout: Tina Terlaak Sports Layout: Paul B. Mull­aney Sports Copy Editor: Jeff Powanda Typists: Beth Huffman, Kate Huffman, Mary Beth Budd, Amy Peczkowski EMT: Paul Selauko .. Proofreader: Mark Rust ND Day Editor: Mark Kelley SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Ad Design: Flo O'Connell Photographer: Greg Maurer The Observer [USPS a 1211! Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and ¥ICitiln plriodl. The Observer is publlslled by 1tle students of Notre 011111 nd s.lnt Mary's College. SublcripliiRu lillY be  . Rape• • the care of the victim. She calls versity is informed of rapes the hospital emergency room, both directly through security informing a special nurse and and through the halls. doctor of the event. Health Katie Kearney, assistant rec­Services is also called, and a tor of Farley Hall and director student has the option of asking of the student legal aid society, to see a member of the Sex emphasized that RA's and rec­Offense Staff (SOS). • tors at NO are not trained to SMC Security, meanwhile, handle rape in the manner checks the area and is respon­which the hall staffs at SMC sible for informing the County are. Dearney, Tamborini, and police. ''Security is asked not to Pia Trigiani, president of the come to the hospital,'' Tambor­SMC student body, noted it is ini added. important that RA's know the Roemer noted that the SMC hospital procedures and the program "is excellent," and security procedures associated suggested that Notre Dame with cases of rape. follow the same policy. "Basic­"Student Affairs should pro­ally, we do already (follow the vide efficient and practical policy)," he said, "but our training,'' Kearney said strong-reports come in differently.'' According to Roemer, the Uni­!continued on page 4] Insty need printing ina hurry?.',Prints... . 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main SOuth Bend 289-6977 the wiz oftheprintingbiz! ROCKIN YOU FROM THE TOWER 7am-lam Daily Also, Taking, and Playing Your Requests All Day Long at #6400. So Listen· to, Notre Dame's Student Rock, AM 64, WSND. TUESDAY Nov. 13, 1979 ALE 7-10 2/$1.00  
·camP-_u_s-~  
12: I 5 p.m. FASTERS MASS spon. by world hunger walition. DILLON CHAPEL 3 p.m. ILLUSIONIST andre kile, WASHINGTON HALL  
3:30 p.m. LECTURE prof. ritva jonsson, medieval inst. n·<1ding room 4 p.m. MEETING & DISCUSSION "christian lawyers ti,r11m" mr. andrew plodowski of plodowski: sanford in mishawaka, spon. by law school, 101 LAW BUILDING  purcllaed for S20 per yur J$11 persemattrl from The Observer. P.O. bel a. Nltrl Dame,lndlllll 41651. Slcllld clau ~~ pakf. Nltrl 011111, ln­dillll . Tile Observer Is 1 memller o1 1M Auocllted Praa. All ""ldiCIIIn rights 1n l'lllfWCI.  10-3 75ceach  
5: I 5 p.m. DINNER spon. by french club, SOUTH DINING HALl. 2ND FLOOR '7 p.m. MINORITIES NIGHT prof. rudolph sandoval, n.d. law school. mr. granville cleveland, librarian at n.d. law -.;l'hool. and aso;;r. dean rober waddick, pre-law advisor, spon. h\· pn·-law society, 101 O'SHAUGNESSY -p.m. TALK digger phelps, spon. by howard hall academic comm., HOWARD HALL CHAPEL . 7 p.m. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING spon. by students concerned for cambodia, MAZZ 7:30p.m. MOVIE, lola montes, WASHINGTON HALL Hp.m. ILLUSIONIST andre kok-'s world of illusion, spon. by campus crusade for christ, WASHINGTON HALL Rp.m. PLAYWRIGHTS PREMIER 5 productions written by student", spon. by n.d./smc speech & drama. LITTLE THEATRE MOREAU HALL !:UO p.m. TALK fr. walter. chairman of preprofessional srudit'"t. FLANNER PIT 10 p.m. MEETING & DISCUSSION" fellowship of christian athletes. DILLON CHAPEL  





The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1979 -page 3 

PLO halts Iranian negotiations 
scribe the proposal, saying it
(AP) -A Palestinian dekgation officials and student represent· 
would be oivulged once the
many regarded as the best hope atives. But yesterday the PLO's 
council approves it.
for winning freedom for the No. 2 official, Salah Khalaf, told 
Bani-Sadr and other Iranian ran gave up its efforts yester­leaders reaffirmed their coun­envoys had given up thei1 day ~nd left the Iranian capital, misston and left Tehran. 
U.S. Embassy hostages in Teh­reporters in Kuwait that the 
try's central demand -that the a Palestine Liberation Organi­It was not known whether the 
United States hand over the zation official announced in Tehran ambassadors from
exiled Shah Mohammad Reza Kuwait. Pahlavi to stand trial in Iran for Syria, Pakistan and Turkey, Work of the PLO's apparent his life. said to have joined with the failure to end the impasse came PLO in the weekend talks, were
A PLO source reported over as Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomei­the weekend the Palestinians still pursuing the negotiations. 
ni's regime and the Moslem were negotiating with Iranian militants holding 98 hostages at the Tehran embassy reaffirmed their determination to face 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
down the United States in the tense confrontation. Main Building A three-man negotiating team gave up its efforts and left 
JOB INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN THE DECf:MBER, M.U A.'tD AUCL;St CLASSES, •••••••• ANY WHO INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVE A COMPLETED
Tehran. But Abolhassan Bani­
PROfiLE (REGISTRATION) ON FILE AT TilE PLACEMENT BUREAU ...•.••.•REGISTRATION. INTERVIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITERATURE ARE IN ROOM :ill, AHHINISTRATION SLOG.
Sadr, Khomeini's foreign af­fairs chief, announced that 
COMPLETE EMPLOYER SPECIFICATIONS ON DEGREES • JOB TITLES. LOCATIONS 1\ND CITIZENSHIP ARE. GIVEN IN THE Pl.ACEHENT MANUAL, EXCEPT FOR ntOSE EMPLOYERS ADDED SINCE TRE 
PRINTING OF THE MANUAL.

Iran's Revolutionary Council 
would discuss ''a proposal con-. 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8:00 A.H. TO 5:00P.M., MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, BEGINNING NOVEMBER 12 FOP INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED THE WEEK OF NOVEMBER 19.
cerning the American Embas­sy." 
PlEASE :-IOTE INTERVH.:W LOCAtiONS AT TIHE OF SIGN-UP. 
YOt: !irST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY.

Radio Tehran did 111ot de-
OAT! 
ALJIAICSCUI-

Nov. 19
Fr. Hesburgh 
~ 
X 
X X 
X 

Unlvcrslty of Chicago. Graduate~ ws in Biological_ Sc1('nces, Humanities, Physical Sciences, Socl,'ll SctenceA. BM in all dJsc:Jplincs. 
X X

reschedules 
Factory ~tual Ensineet~A.ssodapon B in all Engr and Sci disciplines. 
X X 

General foods Corporation S in ME, MEIO and Fin.
lecture 
K 
X 

J. L. Hudson C~panr I 
I', ln Lib. Arts, "B\lS. Ad: and MBA(n~w).Retailing & !-'ianagi!-TS 
Father Theodore Hesburgh's 
X 
X 

-!!'.!......E.!gp_ulsio_n...._!..abor..!!E.!l. 
BMD in AE, EE. ME, Comp Sci, Physics, Math with 
Comp Sci. 

lecture scheduled for today has 
been cancelled. 
Morgan Guaranty Truat Cornpany of N£'\11 York
The talk, titled "Technology 
l'. .ln Acd. 

Transfer and the Third World: 
!~_Corporcltio'! 
RM in ~E or HE.

Reflections on Vienna,'' has 
been rescheduled for Monday,! Nov. 19/20 
~on /Tues.
November 26 at 4:15p.m. 

~ 
X 
X 

5_cJ!!.UJnb l' r gt'.!_.!!.ill.Ji£__r)!__l..£!:!:.. BM in E~:. ME, Physlct-;. 
Mon/Tues. 
~-t_a_!l~r__tLq_!]__i:~~.P!~CJ!I.!..Ql 
B in Et:.

Coaci:J Phelps 
Nov. 10 
X 
X 

l.:._nivl!'ndty t~!:.__C~_i.!'_"~~:.. _C_n~i..!..!_~ _!JR Public Policy Studies 
r;;s.­
Primarily Lib. Art:-~. Abu Bus1nrss Ad. and Sci. 
X 
X 
~~f:_t~'f!.. ~~.!!.!.!.'!!! 

R In ME. fff;ICI, EF., Ant.
speaks at 
r~'l:!_n.!:E!..!..J~!. _!u_b~':!._-~n_1 
B in MF.. B,ll ln ChE ;md Ch(•m, 
Howard 

X 
X 

I 
O_l_t.!__!(y_'!L__H.i:J_n_k_ :'f.IIA .!_•~-~-E;!l__~l.[l:~ny 
B. in t:cun. All URI\.
Coach Digger Phelps will speak tonight at 7:00 p.m. at 
X 
X 
t· r" 
br:;,,~~{~:>.f.-''1 _\:!'Eoc.a_ny

Howard Hall. 
l<y_I_I_!!_O_c~"!,l.E_c_!:_r_l~..f~~-•£:.1!'.1
All those interested in hearing 
II In Et:, ME. 

Coach Phelps speak about the 
!l_A~c_o__l_ncurpur_n_ly~ 

8 in Mitt. MBA "~th Mkt hkgnl oT r.onctrn.
'79-'80 ND basketball season 
are invited to attend. 
w.'':'i.!)!!£11n}l_~ _F.)_r ~ l.!..l}.:_ ~-tl_r_p_o_r!!!_i_l'~~~ HM in F.t-:, Mf.·, Mt· •• Nc1r.·: All :-;tmlt:'nts on WF.r must t:omplt•tt• S'T'UDF.NT lNTEHF.ST WORKSHEET prlnr tu 
Wuodruw Wilson Nnt lonnl ~-L·llnwshlll fnunJ;1t Iem 
MKA,--:11).----1\;j~f;.-i·~r~it.iV~~ -l-ult;rnsfifp-;-.-lr'L·-d-._·~ icnt·..: tn lu•lp mt•t•l tlw lll't•d felt wt•ll-tr.:dnL•J at.lminlstr.llh'L' 
X 
X 

M::m'lg~·mt•nt at tlu-hlstnrlo-.-llly hlo1ck cui leges, App<~Iach­lnn muuntaln sl"llllllls, NatJvt• Amt•rtc-an nnd Vt.•rtaln ntllt'r "dl•vt•lupiOy, col h·~~~..·~." Th1..• proj!,t<!m af fnrUs nutstandln~ ~:r.:nluah•s :111 "l'llurlunity fur st·rvic·(' .:md l'XJlt•rit•nct• in unlqm• d!ul dmlll'n~in~~ !-H'ltlnAR· lnt••rns as~->Ist in stn•nJ•.lht•nin)~ thc• .ulminlstr:&tiou nf p;trtil'ip<ltinl~ lri­
AL issues 
remaznzng· 
!-.J.ill!lion.... l'llt•y sc•rv•• :1s :t:->Histnnts tc1 prt•,.;lth•nts omd Pfilo.;lnt•s!i tn:w:w.c·rs, ;uul m: olin•l"fnp.: 11[ n•,..t•:ttdt, p!.umill)',, ;uul clo·vo·lnpmt·!ll. l.m·-•tinll: rldllnnwlctc•. t:\ll~-t·nsh\1• rt••\ttin·tl.
cards 
CELEBRATION/RIVER CITY Ptoudly Pt•a•nts 



'ji)otly Jatchat 


with Special Guests 
Point Blank 
Thutsdoy, Novembet 15 8:00pm 
mouls Civic Auditotium South S.nd 

River City Records (U.S. 31 North, Western Ave., ffilshawaka Ave. & Dunes Plaza In ffilchlgan City) 
Commercial Banking
Rite 
Chase Manha't'tan :Bank 
Commercial Lending 

Chemical Bank 
International Finance Barris Bank Trusts Wednesdal', November 14, 1979 . 
7.·30pm Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
All students ct faculty invited 



NICKlES 
TODAY: 
A Senior Death March Warm-up 
Senior 
Cocktail Hour 
4-6ptn 
All mixed drinks: 2 for the price of one 
Bottles of Miller Miller Lite Bud 60c 4-6pm 
Don't miss these specials! 

The following departments in the College of Arts and Letters will be issuing their remaining checkmark cards in Stepan Center on Wednesday by 8:30 a.m.; Art, Modern Language, Sociology I Anthropology and Speech and Drama. 
film lott~ery applicati<lns available 
Applications for film sponsor­ship during the spring semester are available in the Student Union office today through Monday, November 19, when all completed applications must be submitted. 
A lottery will be hdd in the Student Union office November 25 at 6 p.m. to determine which organizations will receive movie dates. 
.. 

.ATTENTION SEMESTER GRADUATES 
The Continued Growth of ~ -Ultimaster j has created an outstanding opportunity on the sales staff for a sales trainee.· Initially, the position will require a period of trainin 
~ 

so as to fully prepare the individual in all 
facets of our industry and business. It is anticipated that this position will lead to sales representative position. 
Compensation includes excellent salary plus liberal fringe benefit package. We are located approx. 25 minutes southeast of 
South Bend. 

If you are an enthusiastic and energetic individual who is looking for an outstanding opportunity for personal and professional growth, Please contact: MR. BRIAN BRADY* ULTIMASTER DIVISION• HOLIDAY RAMBLER CORP. • 65526 ST. RD. 19, WAKARUSA • INDIANA. 46573. (219) 862-45,51. An equal opportunity 
r_....,J<lu...:or 


------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------­

The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1979 -page 4 

WORLD RENOWNED ILLUSIONIST PRESENTS THE FANTASY AND REALI TV OF THE SUPERNUURH WORLD 
WORLD OF ILLUSION® 
A MAGICAL AND SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE . AS WITNESSED IN 73 COUNTRIES. 
Tuesday, Nov. 13 8 pm Washington Hall 
THIS S'ICIAlAPPIARANCI OF AN DRI KOLIIS SPONSOIIID IV CAMPUS CRUSADI fOR CHRIST INTIRNATIONAL 

RESISTER NOW AT PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INTERVIEWS FRI. NOV. 16-NOTRE DAHE THURS. NOV 15-ST. MARY'S 
[continued from page 2] 

ly. Kearney said she had been trying to organize a rape aware­ness program for hall staffs since 1977, her first year as an RA. ''I'm sick of being put off," she said. 
Pre-Law hosts Minorities Night 
The Pre-Law Society will hold a Minorities Night tonight at 7 
p.m. in room 101 O'Shaughnes­sy. 
Guest speakers will include Prof. Rudolph Sandoval of the Notre Dame Law School, Grandville Cleveland; librarian at the the Notre Dame Law School and Asst.Dean Robert). ~addick; Pre-Law Society Ad­VIsor. 
BALSA and LaRaza will be discussed. · 
'Premier'· staging set for tonight 

This semester's Playwrights Premier will be staged tonight, at 8:00 p.m. in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. There is no need for reservations, and admission is free. 
On the program will be five student-written plays, each ful­ly produced. 
Tamborini noted that the women's hall staffs are "only half the battle." "Men have to know what to do, too," she said. Tamborini, however, agreed with Kearney that a program for women was neces­sary. 
Kearney then explained that she had bypassed the Office of Student Affairs and had set up a presentation for all women hall staffs this Sunday night in Farley Hall. The program will include presentations by a nurse from the emergency room, a member of SOS, a rape victim, Tamborini, and Kear­ney, who will discuss the legal aspects of rape. 
Christian Lawyers plan 
•
meettng 

Please note that the November meeting of the Christian Law­yers Forum will be held today at 
4:00 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. 
The speaker will be Andrew Plodowski, a partner of the law firm of Plodowski & Sanford in Mishawaka. His topic, "The Christian Lawyer as Family Counselor'', will focus on the problem that divorce law pre­sents for the Christian attorney, and the role he can play when his client seeks a divorce. 
There well be ample time for discussion of this issue, but the meeting will end by 5:00p.m.. 
As are all Christian Lawyers Forum meetings, this one is open to rhe public. 
LlVJNi AN EVENING WITH GSTOJV 
, · 1'1\J:ro~ 
WEDNESDAY, NOV.14 8PM O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM RESERVED SEATS TICKET SALES THROUGH SMC PROG-RAMMING OFFICE 
SPONSERED BY SAPB 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant represents 
the mark of quality and acceptance In today's legal 
community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify. why not give yourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt University's Lawyer's Assistant Program which Is fully accredited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974. 1250 graduates representing over 230 colleges and universities have chosen Roosevelt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 
Specialize In: Corporations-Estates. Trusts and Wllls-Litlgatlon-Real Estate and Mortgages­Employee Benefit Plans•-or become a Generalist•. 
Over 3251aw firms. banks. corporations and government agencies throughout the United States 
have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
•e..,nlng program only 

Lawy7r:SA;;'i9tantp;:ogr~----------, 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY  • ~  38  
430 South Michigan Avenue  -.~  
Chicago. Illinois 60605  ~  
(312)341-3882  

Please send me Information on Roosevelt's Program. Day Programs 
O Spring 1980-February 11-May 2, 1980 O Summer 1980-June 12-September S, 1980 O Fall 1980-September 22-December 12, 1980 
Evening Programs 0 Spring-Summer-March 11-August 22, 1980 O Fall-Winter-October 7-March 28, 1981 
tlecruiterwtll be on campu1 November 27 
Nam~----------------------------------­
Address -----------------Phon~---------­
City State Zip ---­Roosevelt University admits students on the basis of Individual merit and without regard to race. color. creed, s~x. 
...!!!~l:!!.c;!!. ~ndlc..;;!e:&;;;·--­
$5.00 

• Training 
As the discussion on the reporting of rape ended, Trigi­ani, and Shannon Neville, off­campus commissioner, offered suggestions on rape preven­tion. Trigiani presented five suggestions made by the SMC Board of Governance. The Board suggested that the patrol on Saint Mary's Road be eval­uated. "The road has been better patrolled recently,'' Tri­giani noted, "but I don't know how long that will last," she said. 
Terry responded "I don't have a system of logging when cars go down that road. We don't tell them (security) any particular time.'' Both Terry and Roemer noted that the road patrol could be evaluated. 
Trigiani also relayed suggest­ions that more lights be Instal­led along the road, a guard­house be built on the intersec­tion of 31, better education be offered about rape, and that a 
buzzer  or  emergency  phone  
system  be  set  up  along  the  
road.  

Neville, relaying suggestions from the Off-Campus Council, suggested that a student escort service be set up, possibly using the Library as a dispatch center. Roemer noted, ''The University would support that idea enthusiastically.'' 
Ballentine to present lectures 

Dr. Rudolph Ballentine, dir­ector of the Biofeedback and Combined Therapy Programs of the Himalayan Intc>rnauonalln­stirute in Honesdale, Pa., will present two lectures tomorrow at 4:)0 and 7:30p.m. The first lecture.entitlcd. "Medicine East and West--How They Stack Up In Term'> of Modern Re­search," will ta~e place in the Angela Room of Sl. Joseph's Hall on Notre Dame Ave. The second lecture, entitled "Whol­istic Therapy," will be held at the Recital Hall of the South Bend Centurv Center. The lectures are sponsored by the Wellness Support Center of South Bend. 
PUT'EM 
AWAY 

JUST FOR 
A DAY. 
If you can l1ve without your cigarette'S for one day. you m1ght fmd you can live without therri forever. So put 'em away. Just for a day. Thursday. November 15 
! 
THE GREAT AMERICAN 
SMOKEOUT. 
.,Ameri<an Canter Soc:iety. 








Editorials 
Tuesday, November 13, 1979-page 5 
The Shame ofIran
Who I~e~s The Blame? 
The recer~t takeover of1t~e U.S. Embassy and the holding 

"It is the stzllest words that 
of 60 Amencan hostageslm Tehran has touched off violent 

bring on the storm. '' reactions in the United States. Demonstrations supportive of 
--Fnednch Nietzsche 
the Ayatollah and the takeover by Iranian students in the 
U.S. have provoked anti-IIranian demonstrations on campus­

I'm mad as hell and I'm not es across the country and have caused in any instances 
going to take it anymore. anti-lraf?ian feelings to 1-eplace logic. The Observer believes 
The U.S. penchant for maso­the Irama~ students are viola~i.ng simple rules of hospitality 
chism in foreign policy contin­?-nd breakmg our cultural .tradttwns whtch, by their presence 
ues unabated. Numerous pat­tn thrs country, they should respect. But we also question the 
sies have taunted, abused and reaction of the American people. 
vilified us in the past 15 years, The Iranians demand 'the extradition of the Shah and 
and we've been only too willing Iranian students in the U.S. support this demand.' The 
to acquiesce. First it was North students believe the Shah has no nght to remain in the U.S. 
Korea., with the Pueblo. Then However, one must question if these students are not 
Cambodia, with the Mayaguez. denying a person the sam~ right they are enjoying. While the 
And we all know how smewy Shah may be a thought of as a criminal in Iran, the U.S. can 
that Might ~louse of Indochina, not pass judgement on him without evidence. Thus he has 
Vietnam, is. They flex their the right to live and, at this time, that right necessitates the 
muscles by evicting their own medical treatment he is being given. Can these students who 
populace to a watery grave have been allowed to live in the United States dare the 
while starving a neighboring government to deny anyone else this same privilege? 
Cambodian population into sub­Residing, by choice, in a foreign country, means the 
mi~sion for expedient political acceptance of that countty's traditions. We do not believe 
gam. that aliens in America should declare their allegiance to 
Now, Iran is once again center anoth~r country during a conflict w~th that country. This is 
stage in the global theatre of espe~tally true when such a declaratton goes beyond foreign 
the absurd. The Lunatics-of­allegtance and becomes, as exhibited in the demonstrations, 
the-Month Traveling Troupe is anti-American. While America allows the demonstrations of 
firmly entrenched in Tehran, beliefs in mass action, the violence which these demonstra­
where reactionary religious gut­tions arouse is unacceptable. 
tersnipes juxtapose their )-a­Unfortunately, this violence is not solely attributable to 
day prayers to Allah with Iranian students. The throwing of bottles, bricks and rocks, 
terrorization of innocent peo­and the hurling of insults and hostile phrases, only adds to 
ple. the violence and expresses illogical rage. Other actions, such 
The seizure of the US Em­as the refusal to service Iranian airplanes and freighters and 
bassy is the latest insult in a the boycott of Iranian oil better dramatize American 
long series of neanderthalish sentiment. Meeting violence with violence is more a 
tactics orchestrated by the manifestation of Iranian ~radition than American freedom. 
grand maestro of this Mid-East­_The Iranian students at+e wrong to demand the extradition 
ern Stonehenge, the Ayatollah of the Shah. They are also hypocritical to enjoy the benefits of 
Khomeini. His zealous, belli­a country and to riot against it simultaneously. But the 
gerent sycophants evoke paral­Americans are also wrong. Not only have they reacted 
lel images of the obsequious vrolently and wrongly so against Iranian students, but they 
hordes who followed a nihilistic ha\e stereotyped all Iranians in the United States. Americans 
despot of the not too distant have been guilty of retali~ting in a way they view as wrong 
past, one Adolf Hitler. In for others to act. And wHo must bear the blame when both 
Khomeini's case, I give credit parries are ar fault? · 
where credit is due. He kills, plunders, pillages and tortures'----------------------------...J in the name of Allah whereas 

DOONESBUIRY 
'JAN. 16, 19Z, PAGO PAGO. /IR!(JVE/J ?allAY 70 5EieVE3 IN MY CAPACITYAS NCIAJ­
lY APPO!N7l30 GOVERNOR 
CF AMERJCAN 54-WA." 
•HAVE: TA1<&N INS7AIV7 LIK!N6 70 SAMOAN f'l30PI,e, 1';.SPEOAL.LY 5TAFf= ATGO~<'~ MAN5/0N. 11181ARE G8-/Tl&,IVARM, ANP ff)S5C55el? ot= ANALMOsT CH/t.OUKE INMXENCE."' 

Hitler did it merely for the
by Garry Trudeau 

Reich. Even Egypt's Pres­ident Sadat is nauseated by the latest Iranian outrage, calling it "a disgrace to Islam." I wonder what the prophet Mo­hammed is thinking. 
By 3eizing the embassy, and using hostages as a bargaining chip for the return of the deposed Shah (recuperating from cancer treatment in New York), the Iranians have tacitly declared war on the U.S. Their despicable actions undermine the sanctity of international law, which includes the notion of diplomatic immunity. By acting in this fashion, Iran has given the world a telltale sign of its refusal to abide by the ethical precepts that safeguard the
'JAN. 17. HONI3YMfXJN 

cohestve interaction of nations
OVER... Fa/NO SC&O 

within the international com­
IN O/?AN68 Jt//Ce. 

munity. 
By resorting to such primeval modes of Intimidation, Iran belies its religious affectation and reveals its true nature: a 'state' composed of self-ag­grartdizing rogues, brigands .and knaves. Their extant cultural chaos, judicial barbar­ity and unspeakable cruelty (over 700 people slaughtered in public executions since the Ayatollah took over) is an 
HAO ~R..()GG£:1)., 

Christopher A. Stewart 
atavism to the grisly glories of Genghis Khan. Iran now joins the ranks of modern outlaw nations, a misfit amalgam of terrorist states which includes Vietnam and Cambodia, the 
ultimately decides. And theo­cratic henchmen have no love for capitalist, non-Islamic, sec­ularized., decadent Westerners (aka Americans). 
The U.S. has induced this 
only rwo nations on earth adept disgraceful state of affairs by at the art of self-genocide. neglecting to formulate a co­Welcome to the nightmare. herent foreign policy since the Iran. fiasco in Vietnam. However, it 
With the exception of Sadat, is high time that the U.S. the roar of diplomatic protesta­Government set about rt"l"<;tah­tion is strangely reminiscent to lishing its ethical and political the deafening din accompany­prerogatives in an increasrngly ing the recent atrocities of Pol hostile world. If this alteration Pot's Cambodia: zero. Which of the American political psyche just goes to show how cowed entails justifiable deployment and spineless the international of non-nuclear military forces, community is toward any oil­so be it. producing rFgime. Finally, should the students 
"Why, those blazing-eyed der­murder the hostages, I whole­vishes might turn off the oil if heartedly endorse massive mili­we protest, or double the _price. . tary retaliation. Barbaric re­Then where would we be? gimes only understand brute So moan the oil-importing force, and the Iranians have yet nations, from Japan to West to prove themselves respons­Germany. Nope, can't stop that ible members of the human oil. Progress, progress. Profit, community since their truculent big, juicy profit, remember? "holy man" ascended to his And they learned it all from that throne last January. If terror's old sap, the U.S. of A. their game, fine. We'll see how 
After seizing the U.S. Em­tough their mullahs are against bassy, the th-::ocratic vanguard the Marines. arrested the senior u.s·. diplo­In New York City street lingo, mat at the Iranian Embassy. it's called "kickin' ass." It's Never known for their hospitali­about time the U.S. started ty, the Iranians didn't want using its boots, and let the anything as miniscule as diplo­sandals·fall where they may. matic protocol spoiling their PS: For those students who latest rancid feast ofant1-1 mper~ _ find it difficult to stomach the ialist propaganda. The feverish ''murderous'' presence of pitch of hatred and dema­ROTCites on campus, I pose 
goguery ran so high that one this query: if your" father, frenzied student immolated mother, or uncle were held himself. Talk about blazing hostage, whom would you dele­tc:mperment! In the U.S. some gate the responsiblity of rescu­festive foreigners, including inl! vour loved one, if all four Iranian students, cele­diplomatic channels had prov­brated by trying to kidnap the en !runless? A college edu­governor of Minnesota last cated Notre Dame alumnus? Or 
Friday. Maybe r·hey thought he maybe_the PLO? was the Shah, incognito, being trained for a return venture to hi~ Persian kingdom? Only 
P. 0. Box Q
Allah knows for sure. .Fnday's Observer contained a A Chicano at ND 
remarkable interview with an Iranian student at Notre Dame, Is Still A Cht'cano 
who assured us that the U.S. papers are "sensationalizing" Khomeini's comments. Quamt Dear Editor: observation, but erroneous. Also, he claimed to know(how? In response to AI Alba's article Through SAVAK?) with "100% on "The Chicano Chameleon" 
surety · that "Khomeini (Nov. 6~, I would like to say that 
doesn't approve of the seizure a Chicano at Notre Dame is sttll of American hostages." Don't a Chicano. Personally, I am make me laugh. A terrorist is a proud to be a Chicano from terrorist is a terrorist. If the California and I am comfortable Ayatollah doesn't furtively-with this name. It is easy to 1ose sanction these aggressive ac-your roots here at Notre Dame, tions, why hasn't he acted? espectally when your own pea­Why didn't he intervene im-pie shy away from their heri­mediately, denouncing the tage. students, and safeguarding the Mr. Alba, I would like to thank lives of the hostages? Actions you for your efforts to inform speak louder than words, and the Notre Dame Community of I Khomeini' s actions are a whis-the presence of the Chicano at I per, even in contrast to that Notre Dame. Also would it be other well-known Arab humani-possible for one of your future tarian, Yasser Arafat. topics to express to all of the I We must remember that the Latinos at Notre Dame that 
lunacy call Iran is not a demo-M.E.C.H.A.is not a four-letter 
cracy, where a semblance of word? 
law prevails, but a theocracy, Gracias, 
where God himself (aka The 
Great White Wonder Beard) josephine Nevarez 
~ 

l 
l 
I 
. QL administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
-The Lltserver_ The news is reported as accurately and 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry 
represe~t t~e opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ... .......Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly
&xQ Notre D"me, IN 46JJ6 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editonal Editor ..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. ·Onufrak The Observer_ is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-Executive News Editor .... .. Mike Lewis Business Manager ...... ..Steve Odland oewspapc:r pu_bhshc~d by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.. ..................Mark Rust Production Manager .. John McGrath ofthe l!niversttr of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudyand Samt Marys College. It does n<_>t optmons on campus, through letters is SMC Executive Editor ... ..Ellen BuddY. Controller........... .......Kevin Manion necessarily reflect 1the polic'es of the encouraged. ' Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges
SMC .Nt;_!f!,Etf!tf!: ·~ ~ ._.: ...~argie -~r9:sstl_ ..
.• ~· ......... , ••._ ............,.._ ....... ·~· ..·~ .....,•1: 

The Observer Tuesday , November 13, 1979 -page 6 
LaFortune features nuclear concerns film tonight 
Tonight in the LaFortune a local feud in East Germany Little Theatre (first floor), the could escalate into a full nuclear film "Suicide or Survival" will exchange between the super­be shown by the Student Com­powers. mittee for the Investigation of 
Film footage from Eisenhow­Military and Nuclear Disarma­er to Carter acquaints thement. It is a 25 minute docu­viewer with modern efforts tomentary color film dealing with minimize the likelihood of nu­the strategic military forces of clear war, chiefly through thethe U.S. and U.S.S.R. Times of channels of international dip­the showings will be noon, 4 lomacy and arms control agree­p.m. and 7 p.m. There is no ments. Focus is given to U.S.­
admission fee. 

U.S.S.R. relations in non-mili­The film gives an overview of tary domains, including jointthe current nuclear crisis in scientific, technological, medi­both nations, with highlights of cal, trade and cultural exchang­two actual nuclear alerts, the es. The film culminates with an'62 Cuban crisis and the '73 explanation of the present
Mid-East crisis. A simulated war-game scenario depicts how SALT talks, a demonstration of 
U.S. 
verification capabilities, and the significant role of the 

U.S. 
Senate in ratification of the SALT II Treaty. 


An excellent contingent of officials, leaders and specialists appear in the film, mduding Secretary of State Vance, Secre­tary of Defense Brown, Senator Frank Church, President Carter and Soviet Chairman Brezhnev. 
This film was produced by the Committee for the East­West Accord, a non-partisan American group concerned with disarmament. For more inform­ation, or if you cannot make these showings but would like tu see the film, call 309). 

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 



FLASH BrLLETI~! 
Presenting Mr. Bob Mr. Bob brings his bolcfeastern talents to the Queens Castle oHering a "step ahead of the crowd styling. Proven in competition, let Mr. Bob present a new you, the change will do you good. 
by 1J1110illt.111t 277-101 • 272-0312 

·Belles end 
season on 
sour note 
by Kate Huffman Sports Wn'ter 
The Saint Mary's College volleyball team rounded out Its st'ason last weekend in state tournament pool-play at Earl­ham College. The Belles were defeated 1n a close opening match by Taylor University, whom the Bellt's had defeated earlier in the season. Match scores against Taylor were 11­15. 18-16. and 16-14. 
In their second match of the day, the Belles were defeated by.Marion. 15-8, 15-6. In what turned out to be its final match of the season, Saint Mary's lost to Huntington College, 7-15, I'). 7, 1)-8. 
In the first game of the match against Taylor University, the Belles scored 1') kills on 24 atrt'mpted spikes. After losing the second game, the Belles -;eemed to be heading for a victorv in the third game, as tht>Y scored their 15th point and wori the match. But the umpire called for a replay on the final point because a ball had rolled onto the court. Taylor went on to win the match on the replay. 

The Belles' second match was even more discouraging to Coach Erin Murphy. "The next mar.ch against Marion we play­t'd immediately following the Taylor match,'' said Murphy after the loss. "I think the girls did not have enough time to mentally recover from the loss against 'Taylor." 
.In spite of the loss, Murphy commended freshman Peggy Pit·srhe! on her aggressive de­fensive play and Mary Laugh­
lin.  also  a  freshman,  on  her  
excellent  job  setting  for  the  
Belles.  
In  the  tina)  match,  Saint  

Mary's held a comfortable 12·1 lt>a<f over Huntington College. The Belles went on to take the game-I)-7 but Huntington re­bounded an.d took the next two games to wi.,n .tbc: ,match. 
... Planner 

(continued from page 7] 
pus the rest of the way. 
Both teams advanced to the title game with close calls in their semi-final matches. Cava­naugh took Flanner all the way to a shootout session before bowing 1-0. Off-Camf'US got a ticket to the final wtth a 2-1 squeaker over Dillon. 


J.IFY MIT"C11, DO YOU W'A~'T TO GO otrr 
: DRliVKlN& WITH SOME OS:: IHE GUYS IN TH£ 5E.C.TION? 
No, NOWAY./!
I'M TOO Busy 
L '11 STIJDY!N61'M HYKLWWT!N6 TEST I'VEGCff ThJO LA'Tl: JW£Fi5 I='OR MY DEBJr.5 
SeMINAR COURSE AND J: HAV£ 
To PREPARE MYORAL 


Hard to find Records? 

Go to Just for the Record, whose new specialty recordmart (thousands of collectors albums and cutouts) will open SOON at LOEWS Merchandise Mart 
Next to bus station, downtown 

~ 
I 
• l 
The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1979-page 7 
j l 
Footb  1  Hockey  
1. Alabama (34)  9-0·0  1,262  WCHA  
2. Ohio State (14) 3. Nebraska (5) 4. So. California (12) 5. Florida State 6. Texas {Y3) 7. Oklahoma 8. Arkansas (VJ) 9. Houston (VJ) 10. Brigham Young 11. Pittsburgh 12. Purdue 13. Michigan  10·0.0 9-0-0 9-0-1 9·0·0 7+0 8+0 8+0 8-1-0 9-0-0 8-1-0 8-2-0 8-2-0  1,218 1,209 1,t64 983. 981 960 859 788 705 661 614 464  Michigan Minnesota N. Dakota Mich. Tech Wisconsin ND Colo. Col Denver Mich. St. Minn.-Dul.  W L T 5 1 0 4 2 0 4 2 0 3 3 0 3 3 0 3 3 0 3 3 0 2 4 0 2 4 0 1 5 0  Pet. .833 .667 .667 .500 .500 .500 .500 .333 .333 .167  GF 41 39 25 29 34 36 26 23 29 29  GA 29 28 18 24 31 35 35 26 40 45  
14. Clemson 15. Auburn 16. Washington 17. Wake Forest  7-2-0 7-2-0 7-3-0 8-2-0  359 338 295 214  LAST WEEKEND Friday score first Michigan 7-9, Notre Dame 4-11  

Michigan St. 5-2, Michigan Tech 4-618. Temple 8-1-0 162 North Dakota 4-3, Denver 3-0

19. Tennessee 5-3-0 123 . Colorado Col. 3-4. Minnesota 8-720. Baylor 6-3-0 99 
Minnesota-Duluth 8-3, Wisconsin 7-7(tie) Tulane 8-2-0 99 




Classifieds 
Flanner w-ins second straight title 
The interhall soccer season Although the rain and cold outside the penalty area. Ken­
. came to a conclusion Friday hampered offense on both nedy took the opportunity to afternoon and in spite of dismal sides, the slippery astro-turf on blast the slippery ball into the weather conditions. Flanner Cartier Field seemed to have net for a 1-0 lead. . Hall eased to its second conse­less influence on Flanner. Only five minutes later anoth­cutive campus title with a 2-0 "We don't have any excu­er foul call resulted in a second triumph over Off-Campus. It ses,'' commented Off-Campus free kick from close to the Off­also marked the fourth cham­Pete Lochtenfeld. ''They had to Campus goal. Dan Cushing pionship in the last seven tries play on it (the wet field), too. took a turn this time and fired for the Flanner residents. Flaoner played a really good the ball on the ground past a An early season 1-0 loss to game and deserved to win.'' wall of Off-Campus defenders Off-Campus prompted Flanner The breaks went against Off­for the insurance goal that captain Jirn McKee to remark, Campus early in the game. clinched the victory. 
"We had to be able to control Fifteen minutes into the match, Flanner goalies Nat Walsh and the middle of the field to wm a foul call awarded Flanner's Bob Goyette blanked Off-Cam­this game and we did." Ed Kennedy a free kick just [continued on page 6] 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in p~rson or through the mail. 


Call 232-4060 after 5 pm. Anytime Need 3 Clemson student tix. Nick Perrier-weekend. 233-6249 We want to personal with you so ....
Notices Wanted 
A classic AR manual turntable with an Need 2 GA Clemson tix. Please help! Jeff. Colleen and the entire crew of' 'StopOrtofon VMS20Mkll cartridge for sale­Call Kitty (SMC( t'A/V3 the world, I want to get off", Will do typing·. Neat-acc:urate. Cal:l: BEST OFFER· Call AHAB at 8857 Thanks so much for a PERFECT
Rid~rs needed to Omaha or any intermed­

287-5162 Help! Need 2 GA Clemson Tix. Call performance on Saturday night. It VfaS
ate points. Leave Sun. Nov. 18. Cal13173 

For Sale: Two L78-15 belted snow tires. (SMC) 5202 or 4708 fantastic! 'II' IMPROVE YOUR GRADES' $50. Call Steve at 8661 or 1432 MBBudd
Need ride to Minneapolis for Thanksgiv­

Send $1.00 tor your 306-page catalog ~I Need 1student or GA ticket to Clemson.
ing. Please call Mary Ann at 4-1-4347.

collegiate research. 10,250 topics listed. One United Discount ticket ($40) Call Joe Call JOhn 1840 Patty P. has no tact. 
Box 25098G. Los Angeles, California. 3598
Need a ride to or from Pittsbufgh area

W025. (213)477-8226. Help! Need 2 GA tix to Clemson game. Adam's Entourage,
over Thanksgiving break, will share 

Invest in yourself inst•eao of a landlord! Barb 7933 Thanks for asuperweekend in Indy. Theexpenses. Please call Mark. #1062.
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296.' Excellent investment opportunities avail­wine, food and Earth, Wind, and Fire able now in duplex and triplex real estate. Clemson Tickets (4) needed Desperately were excellent II "As we danced in the
Buspemns and dishpersons needed­

There will be a meetin~1 for anyone Your tenants will make your mortgage $$ Call 1735 -Randy night... REMEMBER ...how the stars
male or female. Apply at the Carriage

interested in running a Republican payments while you live free. Call today stole the night away'!
House 2'.460 Adams Road 272-9220

Campaign for the mock convention on to learn the rest of the advantages: DESPERATE! need 2 GA. Clemson To Love, 
Wed. Nov. 14 at 7 pm in 2·D LaFortune. Joyce Kevorkian 232-1193 or ERA-Equity Big$$. Marie 4-1-4677 KKK &S
Waitress Wanted Age 21 & over Oriental 

Realty Assoc. 256-0263. P.S. When's the next road tnp?
Restauram 114 W. Ireland Rd. Apply In 

Need 1,2,3, or 4 student or G.A. tickets Used Book shop. Open Wed , sat., Suri. person 2-5 o. m. One-Way United plane ticket to N.Y.'s for Clemson. Call ed 1222. 
Ryan­

9-7. Ralph Casperson 130313uchanan Rd. LaGuardia airport. Must be used by a
Need ride to Wisc-Madison/Milw/ A belated Happy Birthday to a fine
Niles. 683-2888 girl befor Dec. 15. $50 or best offer. Call Clemson tix needed G.A. or student. Call
Jamesville a1 ea for Thanksgibing break. staffer
Patty 2278. Dan 8479
Please call 3322. Teri and Pam
GLENMARY HOME MISSIONERS are sponsoring 3 one-week volunteer pro­I need student tickets to Clemson. Please
HEY NEW JERSEYANS: You're here.
grams in the Appalachian area from Dec. call Ken at 1821.
Anyone going home for Thanksgiving? I Seeing you the second time makes me15-21: Dec. 27-Jan.1. 1980. or Jan. 2-~. 
have ride home. Need ride back to SMC feel I had my eyes closed when we met1980. Stop in Volunteer Services, Please call Angie 4-1-5465 before. Yes, the whole of it would be the

Tickets
l.aFortune Center for more information. 
best. All pretense not pretended Keenanites need ride to Milwaukee the anymore. But you are here. That isCOZMIK PRODUCTIONS HAS "THE 
20th or 21st. Will pay$. Call 3281 (Bob) enough for you and by necessity nowHUMANS"' Available now for dances or 3307 (Robert). Clemson G/A's many neelied: Groups enough for me. You're here. Whatand parties, Mick -8212 
together or at least in pairs; Call collect happens in this moment. even if it Paying $10 men's, $5 women's for class any day after 9:00 p.m. [716]-586-8690 nothing, is enough.

Personals 

rings. Any condition. Will arrange Stock-Man pick-up. Phone toll-free 1-800-835-2246 Wanted one ticket for the Eagles concert anytime. Friday night. Call Tom at_1022 Dave-
COMING SOON!! BART "MADMAN" 
What's your opinion of the "system for


Lost&Found 
BRYERTON WILL SPEAK ON "FUN AT

Need 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles Concert. Wanted one student ticket to the Soviet negating my hitting you"?
N.D. FOR DEVIANTS AND THE DE

Please call 232-4462 after 5:30. Basketball game. Call Boris at 2253 The hat-wearing Hitter
PRAVED." THIS FACTUAL ACCOUNT Gold charm bracelet on campus on IS BASED ON PERSONAL EXPERI
N&9d ride to Milwaukee for Thanksgiv-Need 2 GA and 1 student ticket for Baci, Grandpa, and Danny,
October 27th. Finder p,:easee contact ENCE WITH GRACE'S FINEST. ALL
• ing. Can leave any time after 12:00 noon Clemson. Will Pay$$$. Call Jim at 1161 Thanks for coming. 
~3003 Rexforcl ~;-l.outs­YOU ANIMALS BETTER BE PRE.
on T~esday. Katie 8142. Love
ville, KY. 40205. Reward'" PARED. WE CAN TAKE IT* BUT CAN 
DaveFRANCO?
I have mom, rider to Columbus, Ohio ­

Help' I Need two Clemson G.A. 's
Lost: Man·s long, tan trenchcoat 1at 
Thanksgiving, Dave 3637 T.F.: Be good. If you can't be good, be
(together). Call Dick 8309 any night P.K.
Dillon formal. Please call 1576 with inlo. 
good at it. If you can't be good at it, lay

between 11 and 12 Thanks for a great time Sat. nite at
Need ride to Boston to announce my back and let it be good for you.
Lost: Gold link bracelet. Sentimental S. Y.R. Perhaps we can get together
candidacy over Thanksgiving will share

value. Reward offered -call Nancy #8034 again this weekend. Give me a call.
usual Call Mike -288-1376 Need one G.A. or student ticket to Terry:
Jim

Clemson. Call 8922. Happy birthday. Be good.
Lost: Tl-55 calculator. Call Mark #1062. 
Need ride to Cleveland for Thanksgiving Respectfully yours,
Reward. BERT HENDERSON =FREE OATES
break. Rico 8642, Will share expenses. Need at least 4 GA and 4 student Beth Clemson tickets. Call 3328. Please ! ! 
Lost: 2 large blue duffle bags, stolen Dear Operation Volunteer Members,
Riders needed for Thanksgiving break.

from car at South Carolina game, Our journey to the Southland was
Youngstown, East Liverpool, Steuben­Please sell me 4 GA Clemson tickets.
containing clothes. Despe··ately needed. nothing less than spectacular. All I can Matt, Matt, Andy, and Larry--­
ville area. Call Rich 232-2382 after 11:00 Call 277-5261
$Reward call 284;4975 say is-Ready for Alabama? 'LESGO! Thanks alot for helping out last weekend,
PM. 
Hanesy hope you had a good time. I owe you all a

Need 2 G.A. Clemson Tix. Please help.
Lost-Blue Jacket with White NO insig­P.S. How 'bout them Vols? favor.
Vivacious Girl -brilliant conversationalist Call 4-1-4280. 
nia. At USC game, gold watch was in PPS. Martha sends her regards. Love,
looking for ride to Philadelphia area

pocket if found call Joe at 233-6024 Beth
Friday, Nov. 30 for Army-Navy game. I need 2 or 3 GA Clemson tickets. Please 
Susie,

Call Anne 1261 call Dave 8782.
Lost Green American Con,Jress notebook Happy 21st. You're the greatest. 
in the coat racks outside A-line. Please BB
Need 4 G.A. tix for Clemson. Call A thousand thanks to all of you wonder­return the notes; the final is cumulative. 
277-4976. ful folks who made my birthday the fun 
Call Bob at 8777 Karen filled annual event it's become. This yearThanks for a great time Saturday night.
I need 2 Clemson GA'~. 4579 was the best ever. Thanks again·
Lost: Gold Ring w/black stone. Coyle Hope we get the chance to do it again in

For Sale 

Love & kissesHigh School 1957. Extreme personal Need tow GA clemson tix. Please call · the future. Ryan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes
value. Reward. Please call Karen #8163 Fran
Diane #7906. P.S. it only took me four days to clean up
P.S. Do you have Disco fever? 
after Thursday nights party.

Silver. metal framed glasses -Bob 6718 Comics at discount -new and old. DC, 
Help'! Desperately need 2 GA Clemson
Marvel, Warren. Call 287-6920 evenings tix!. Call Susan 4-1-4796 Mary Pat, An evening with Livingston Taylor·Lost: 3 color slidP.s -probably near the and weekends. Happy 21st. As usual, I'm late, but 
Wednesday, Nov. 14. Don't miss it! 

Huddle. Call 6865 what more can I say!
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Clem­
One United Half-fare coupon ($35) Call Dan
son! Please call 7831. OperatiOns crossroads -Theree w111 be :1P.J. 3402 meeting Nov. 14 at 7:30 in the Volunteer
Lost: Vivitar camera w1th sentimental Mary & Lori,
Wanted: GA tickets for any home games. Services Office for those interested in thepies still inside on North Quad. If ound, 
One United Airlines coupon for sale. Call I've finally notten your birthday wishes 
please return to Anne (1261) 128 B.P. Must be two or more together. Call African Crossroads program.
Barry at 2752. in. Many more &I'll see you soon.
287-3311 Danny-Joe. Dan --­
What is campus I New York?l?l 

For Sale: United Airlines Vz price coupon. Call Mike 3740. SMC Sophomores-Are you interested in helping with SOPHOMORE PARENTS 
Here is the personal you so very mucn

Desperately need Ga Clemson tix. Call

For Rel1Lt John 
For Sale: V2 Fare coupon. Best offer. WEEKEND?? If so, join the Production 
wanted. Hope it makes you smile'

Call 4-1-4161 Sean 3114 Crew for the show. Call Anita (4280). 
Hi Mike!
Trish (4367). Cathy (5919) and get Love

One United Airlines half price coupon for involved'
Bedroom, share kitchen 2 bath, $75/ Trish
sale. Make an offer. 272-8857. BADLY NEED' Student Clemson ticket­
month and 1/3 utilities. Bus service. 
Call Pual 2258 DR. MIKE: PLEASE BE ADVISED 
233-2900 
Selling United Airlines half-fare coupons, THAT ASSOCIATING WITH SUCH DE. 
$30.00. 7550. 272-7180 I have a student basketball season ticket GENERATES CAN ONLY RUIN YOUR
Need a male to take over lease at Campus 
{bleacher) Make me an offer for it. REPUTATION. BUT WHAT A WAY TOView. 3 lovely apartment mates. $1100 a 
1973 Plymouth Duster. Good condition Damian 1197 GO'! WATCH OUT FOR ITALIANS
month. Call Pete 277-27 23 
low mileage. Best offer. Call 288-9908. EXPECIALLY. THEY MAKE SCENES 
Before 3. Need 2student' tickets for Clemson. Call IN RESTAURANTS. YOU LOVE IT*
Furnished 4-6 bedroom house for r'nt 
Kathy Patton at 7757 from 9-t> Monday­RIGHT?
Now or next semester walking distance to For Sale: 78 VW Bus Champagne edition Friday or 3t home 233-2624 campus. Call 272-1729 after 5:00 


G.B. auxiliar heater. Priced to sell. 


~--------------------------------------------~--~------~--~--~--~----------~--­
-

Tuesday, November 13, 1979 -page 8 


Red dutnps Stanford; suffers no letdo-wn 
by Chris Needles "We knew they were weak on Sports Wnier that side of · the defense," Bridges said, "and that's why 
Dillon head coach Jerry Brid­we ran that way most of the ges was a little concerned about game.'' how his team would perform in Five plays later, Brian Crow­its interhall semi-final plaroff ley sneaked into the end zone bartle with Stanford. The defen­from three yards out. With the 
ling champions had been un-two-point conversion, Dillon led ·xaten. untied. and unscored 14-0. 
tpon for the past two seasons Then, Dillon recovered a Stan­1111til last week, when arch-rival ford fumble at its own 42 and .\lumni plaved them to a 6-6 tie. once again they struck quickly. Bur anv (ears of a continued Brian Crowley lobbed a perfectIt-t down'were quickly dispelled pass to brother Dana who was Sunda\· as Dillon scored on streaking down the left side­their first three offensive pos­line. The play covered 57-yards sessions and went on to defeat to the Stanford one-yard line. Stanford . 26-0 at Cartier Field. On the next play, Kevin Kenny 
The Big Red racked up a went over for the score to put whopping 294 yards against a Dillon in command 20-0 at fine Stanford defense. Stanford halftime. was ahle to muster 133 total Ward's reading of the riot act 1·ards of its own. but as player­w his team at halftime seemed l·oach Rich Ward put it, ''Our w charge up his troops in the mistakes just killed us," in second half as Stanford's of­reference to the 45 yards in fense, led by the gutty running penalties and two turnovers his of fullback Pat McDivitt, re­team committed. corded three straight first 
Dillon took a quick 6-0 advan­downs. But another penalty, tage in the first quarter as the this one for offensive holding, Big Red moved 65 yards in ended another threat for rhe 


Morrissey rolls past Holy Cross 
eight plays. with Dana Crowley North Quad champions. 
scoring on a 13-yard run. The Late in the game, Dana Crow­

key play in the drive was a by Mike Previte hamstring, and forced the Hogs (5-1) Holy Cross club, admitted
ley scored his second TD of the Sports Wn"ter offense into numerous miscues, the team didn't play as well asI<)-yard pass from quarterback contest when he caught a one of which led to the first tally he had hoped, but stressed aBrian Crowley w brother Dana 30-yard pass from reserye quar­

on a third-and-eight play. terback Mark Nasca to mcrease A stalwart defensive effort of the contest. ray ofoptimism for next season. On irs first possession, Stan­Dillon's lead to 26-0. plus two touchdowns by Jack Paul Blackowicz, who along "This is the best season our ford picked up two first rlowns, Bridges was obviously pleased McCarthy pushed Mornssey with Joe LaVigne played out­hall has had in years,'' he bur a costly clipping penalty put with his squad's recovery from past Holy Cross 18-0 in an standing defensively, inter­exclaimed, "We're only losing a halt ;o the dnve. the tie with Alumni. interhall football semifinal cepted a Pairitz aerial at the three players so we · have a lot The Big Red rook over follow­''I'm nappy with our effort played Sunday afternoon. Holy Cro!'s three, and McCarthy to look torward to." ing a Stanford punt at its own rodav -we had a good week of The fierce pass rush of Mor­plunged over to make it 6-0 On the other side of the filed, 14-vard line and on the ,ext practice. We knew Stanford rissey's defensive line har­Morrissey. Morrissey's captain, Dan Buck· pia}·. tailback Kevin Kenny was a fine football team and rassed Holy Cross freshman It stayed that way until mid­ley, was praismg his standout burst down the left side (. r ' there was always the chance we signal-caller Dave Pairitz, who way through the third quarter defensive unit and looking a­66-vard gain to the Stanford muld have another letdown." was playing on a badly-pulled when McCarthy capped a sus­head to Dillon. "Everyone is tained drive, again bolting in really looking forward to play­
from the three to give Morris­ing them again. They beat us sey a twelve-point bulge. It the first rime, but this one's for seemed to take the wind out of all the marbles." 
Holy Cross' sails. Tom Boxche Buckley also hoped that the


There's m~re than winning 
capped the scorin~ to start the final could be played at the fourth quarter With a 1 yard Stadium. "We had over 400 to 

Forger, if you will, about winning and losing; 
plunge to account for the final watch last year's game. Hope­about point spreads and injury lists; tickers and of 18-0. fully a few more than that will travel squads. Indulge yourself for only a Frank An understandably dejected come to watch us play next moment because this IS one about having fun. Matt Hankau., captain of . the Sunday."
It started at <) a.m. on the day of the Notre Dame -Navy game when I fould myself LaGrotta 
.Sporn Writer

shivering on the sidelines, of a well-kept. c_ow 
pasture, gulping McDonald s coffee and wamng 
Harriers wrap up season

for a soccer game between two teams of South respect, I think our games are just as exciting." Bend women to begin. I guess I was thc;re for, a Just then the Flyers scored that one goal I variety of reasons; I had prom1sed a fnend I d mentioned earlier and the eruption on the field by john Smith year that his team could strong­come and watch and I'd heard from others that prompted Phelps to point out: Sports Wn"ter lv contend for a place in the rhe games were good and the _people were "Camraderie. That s what's so great about it. NCAA Championships, but as better. I wasn't disappointed on etther count. There are girls on my team from the ages of 15 to The Notre Dame cross-country the season wore on, it became 
The game I'd come to see was between the 53 and I consider everyone of them my friends. season came to an end Saturday apparent that the Irish were in Flyers and the Angels a_nd, even though the The feeling achieved by playing on a team as the Irish finished lOth at the the rebuilding stages. To Fivers were heavy favomes, they could only crosses all boundaries -age, color, interests. District IV Championships in further problems, last year's manage a 1-0 win. With the score knotted at zero When you're on a team you have to care about East Lansing, Mich. Indiana top returning runner Pat Sul­late in tht: second half, I began to pray that each other." finished first, followed by Wis­livan did not compete this year someone would score. You see, I have this thing I wondered out lound if there could ever be that consin, Cleveland State. and due to an injury. Two freshman about ovenimes. As I was standing there, I same camraderie between men and women on Michigan. These four schools runners were used for most of noticed Terry Phelps coming toward me kicking the same team. will represent District IV in the the meets, which will provide 
a soccer ball. Slightly impressed that the mother "Sure. I think so," Phelps responded. "My NCAA Championships next needed experience for next of three could find the time (and energy) to play daughter plays little league baseball and at first weekend in Bethlehem, Pa. year. The Irish are only losing soccer for two hours on a Saturday morning, I she was just 'the girl on the team.' But then the Irish coach Joe Piane was not two of their top runners, senior asked her about her involvement in the boys realized that she could hit and field and discouraged by his team's per­co-captains Marc Novak and newly-formed league. they accepted her. It's funny because she bak~s formance, After the meet he Pete Burger. 
"I played team sports in ~igh school," she .to!d CO<.>kies for the team and then goes out and h1ts said, "Finishing lOth wasn't all me. "And I've always m1ssed the great mnll a home run to win the game. It proves that both that bad. It was just that the that being part of a team offers. Unfortun~tely, men and women can get involved and not have other reams were stronger. most..women never get a chance to expenence ,to give up their i9entities. . , This year's competitio~ should Swim team that. "I play because It's fun and because It s a_Jso prove to be good expenence for 
Waiting to play the next game, pigger's bettt;r terrific exercise," she concluded before runnmg the future.'' half pointed out that there were SIX teams tn this off to join her teammates. Notre Dame's top finisher seeks timers league each with a roster of 20 women. ."Hey, does Digger ever come to your games," Chuck Aragon, followed by 
"And' there's a long waiting list," she added. I couldn't resist yelling after her. Tony Hatherly, Aldo Bartolini, Those interested in timing As the game progressed, I noticed that, unlike "Oh sure," she said. "He comes to quite a Marc Novak, and John Filosa. varsity meets for the 1979-1980 many team sports that W?men have taken up, few of them. But he doesn't scream or yell. Of Notre Dame's most consistent swimming season are invited to women's soccer does not d1gress that much from course afterwards he'll tell me I didn't hustle ... runner, Filosa, suffered a lower attend an organizational meet­the level of skill evident in a game between two "But, the other night ht went with me.to a te~m finish after he had fallen on the ing. Sainr Mary's students are 
teams of men. party and after observing the great fnendshiJ?S snow-covered course. to meet tomorrow evening at "We don't want to imitate the men," Phelps that had evolved between teammates he satd As to his opinion of the rest of 7:00 p.m. in LeMans Hall. 
stressed as she greeted a teamm~te and passed that's how sports should be. No egos, no big the race Piane said, "We got Notre Dame students are to her a loose ball. "We want to do tt our own way. money -just people havin~ fun.'' . , good performances from Chuck meet on the second floor of Obviously we can't be as physical as the men, And like I told you, that s what this one s all (Aragon) and Aldo (Ba_rtol_ini)." the Rockne Memorial on Thurs­but I think we rely a bit more on finesse. In that about. Piane had hoped earher m the day at 6:30p.m. 

Back-up Dzllon quarterback Mark Nasca [with balfl leads his team in the second half He replaced injured Bn(m Crowley mzdway through the third quarter. [photo by jim Klocke] 



