-~-------------------------------------------------------­
-
/ 
, , . ND vs. Michigan -pages 11 -14 

VOL. XIV, NO. 14 an independent student newspaper serving~otre 4ame and saint mary's ~JUDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1979 
Detective finds genius 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) A 16-year-old student genius mis­sing for nearly a month and feared dead throu~h a mishap in an elaborate mtellectual game has been found alive and well. the boy's family said 
last night. _ 
James Dallas Egbert III, a computer science student from Dayton, Ohio, with an IQ measured at 145, was last seen Aug. 15 at the cafeteria in the Michigan State University dor­mitory where he lived. 
There had been speculation that Egbert's disappearance might have been connected with a bizarre attempt to act out an intellectual game called "Dungeons and Dragons." A tunnel system beneath the cam­pus was searched on the theory that it had been used as a maze. 
It was also feared that Egbert died -possibly trapped m the windin~ tunnels -sometime after h1s mysterious disappear­ance. A -note found in his room said he wished to be cremated ''should my body be found.'' But authorities never were sat­isfied that Egbert wrote the note. 
Egbert's grandmother, Sylvia Morre, srud in a telephone interview from the Egbert home in Dayton, Ohio, that his par­ents were notified by William Dear, a Dallas Detective hired by the family to help in the search. 
"Oh, Mother! They found 
him, and he's alive," Mrs. 
Moore quoted her daughter, 
Anna E~bert, as saying. 
She sa1d they received the call 
about 6:35 p.m. EDT Thursday 
and were instructed by Dear to 
fly to a destination she would 
not identify. 
"Mr. Dear just called and said 
"We have your son," Mrs. 
Moore said tearfully. "He said 
he was alive. He did not give 
any explanation.'' 
Mrs. Moore refused to identify 
where the parents would be 
reunited with their son but said 
it was not in Ohio or Michigan. 

Committee finalizes plans for senior trip 
these sign-ups will be on a first-come-first-serve basis. The dates and times for these students are Wednesday, Sept. 19, and Thursday, Sept. 20, between 11-4 in LaFortune and 6-9 in ieMans. 
Other students interested in signing up for the trip must also report on Wed. and Thurs. and will be accoinodated as space permits. Essig stressed that the first-come, first-serve re­striction will be strictly enforc­ed. 
"Students signing up on Wed. and Thurs, are requored tolay the entire $316," Essig sai . 
Students who paid their fifty dollar deposit last spring can pay the balance of $266 on Wed. and Thurs. at the appro­piate places and times. 
If for any reason an individual fails to withdraw on the assign­ed dates and does not pay the balance by the assigned dates, they forfeit their place on the trip and no refund will be made to them, according to Essig. 
Finally, because room assign­ments will be made in groups of four, each student must come prepared to list their potential roommates. 
Itineraries concerning the trip will be availabl~ the week prior to departure. · 



Frederic pushes into Gulf Coast 

by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary's 

Plans for the senior class trip to Acapulco are in the final stages of preparation, accord­ing to Julie Essig, a senior class trip committee member. 
Due to increased fuel prices, the trip will cost a total of $316. Therefore, those students who made a fifty dollar deposit last spring will be required to pay a balance of $266.00. 
Students wanting to withdraw from the trip and have their ,_fifty dollar deposit refunded must withdraw on Monday, Sept. 17 or Tuesday, Sept. 18. Notre Dame seniors should report to LaFortune Lobby bet" ween 11 a.m: and 4 p.m., while St. Mary's seniors should go to LeMans Lobby between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. on the same date. 
' 'These dates and times will be the only chance for with­drawing students to receive refunds," Essig said. The actual refund checks will be available in the respective scho­ols student activities offices by Monday, Sept. 2'4. 
Students in marching band and those abroad last semester will be given priority for trip sign-ups: Because of possible space limitations, however, 

MOBILE, Ala. (A:P) Hurricane others remained in emergency 
Frederic pushed Inland yester­shelters. day after cutting a 100-mile­Those killed included a 4-year­wide swath through the scenic old girl who died when a 
Gulf Coast, leavmg behind a mobile home was overturned in rubble of splintered dwellings, Mobile, a 76-year-old heart 
boats and businesses and at attack victim, an oil rig worker least eight people dead. who drowned when he fell from 
Some of the more than 400,000 a rig t.ender, and three persons people who had fled before the in auto crashes. hurricane moved ashore Wed­At least two people were nesday p1cked their way back missing and presumeo drown­home only to find their houses ed -one off the Louisiana coast in shambles. Thousands of. and one in Florida. 
----·-------------------------------···----------·-----------------­
---~ 

Crew club president meets ~itizen to settle disagreement over noise 
by Louis Breaux 
Crew Club President Jay Ferriera met with a complaining citizen last night to settle a dispute which led to the confrontation on the St. Joseph River Tuesday morning. . 
The two discussed the possibility of the crew team practicing before 7 a.m. and possible reparations for the damage the man's speedboat incurred during the confrontation. 
Last night's meeting was preceded by another meeting with Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer in which Ferriera presented his proposal. 
A megaphone used by the coach to instruct the team from a launch was the cause of the · noise complained about. Since the river is only one-quarter mile wide and the -crew team usually rows close to shore, the megaphone had been blaring into the residences along the shore at a distance ,of about one hundred feet. 
To alleviate this problem Ferriera's proposal called for directing the megaphone across the wider stretch of the river and that the team would try to row closer to the center of the river. Ferriero also proposed simply to ban the use of the megaphone before 7 a.m., although coach­ing may be inhibited. 
No police action will be taken a~ainst the man since the river is out of police junsdiction. The river is in the jurisdiction of the Conservation Department, who would have to refer the case to the county prosecutor. 
No steps have been taken to bring the incident before the Conservation Department. 
Says Roemer, "I think it is likely that a compromise will be reached. We want to come to a compromise that will allow the students to get on the river before 7 a.m. and still respect the rights of the citizens along the river." 
President Cant 1 nt><:i~nated 30 counties in Mississippi, Flo­rida and Alabama a~ major disaster areas, making them eligible for federal aid, and the White House said the president will personally inspect the area by helicopter today. ­
Looting broke out -in Mobile and suburban Pt·chard as Fred­eric howled northward through 

-southeastern Mississippi and into Alabama, and the National Guard was called out to aid 
1 police. A 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. curfew was imposed in Mobile. Thou~h weakening, the storm was still dumping heavy rains and packing winds up to 60 m.p.h., strong enough to knock down power lines as far north as Birming-ham, Ala. At 3 p.m. EDT Frederic down­gractea to a troptcal storm, wa:. centered near Tuscaloosa, Ala., and moving northward at 15 
m.p.h. 
Forecasters said there was a threat of tornados in northern and eastern Alabama and western Georgia. 

In this historic port city, 100 

m.p.h. 
winds uprooted giant oaks, smashed downtown store­fronts and pitched the debris into the narrow streets and stately boulevards. Officials said damage costs would cer­tainly mount into the millions of dollars, but would not offer estimates. 


Pascagoula, Miss., a ship­building city of about 28,000 residents '30 rni\es w the • west appeared to be the hardest hit. 
"I would say there is not a dwelling, business or any other building in Jackson County that does not have damage ranging from minor to total destruction,'' said Ken Phillips, director of disaster relief in Pascagoula. 
Jon Ham, an aide to Alabama Gov. Fob James, flew over the resort area of Gulf Shores and reported that "very few houses remain standing. Florida Gov. Bob Graham estimated that damage in the Florida Panhan­dle area between Panama City and Pensacola would exceed the $95 million in wreckage left by !Hurricane David on the East Coast two weeks ago. Mississi­ppi Gov. Cliff Finch put tht< damage in his state at more than $50 million. 
Officials credited the low num­ber of•casualties to the tact chat hundreds of thousands of peo­ple heeded thl· call to evacuate. I~ 1969, more t~an 250 peor.le d1ed when 1Hurncane Camtlle stormed ashore near Gulfport, Miss. 
Many ofthose who fled to high ground were not immediately able to return to their homes. Officials said new shelters would be set up by Thursday night. ­
Frederic, with 130 m.p.h. winds at top strength, smashed ashore at Dauphin Island late 
_ [continued on page 9 ] 
\ 

Friday, September 14, 1979 -page 2

CamP-us 
Night Editor: ]im Rudd Asst. Night Editor: Margaret Kruse, Stephen Swonk

Friday, September 14, 1979 
Layout Staff:Ron Henderson, 

~SMC' en1ployee dies 
Scott Hess, Sal Granata Editorial Layout:EIIen Gor­

}ames Jump, 20, a worker for in St. Joseph Valley Memorial
man, Greg Hedges 

five years at Saga Foods at Park. Fri~nds may call from 22 pm MASS, friends of the mentally retarded and l'arche, 
Features Layout:Kathy ­

Saint Mary's, died Wednesday to 4 and 7 to 9 p.m. today in theSACRED HEART CRYPT, refreshments after the mass. 
Connelly , 

in St. Joseph Hospital of an Guisinger Colonial Chapel. TheSports Layout: Mark Perry apparent heart attack. He was rosary will be recited at 7 p.m. 
3:30 pm COMPUTER MINI-COURSE "intermediate 
Typists:Pamela Shea, Laura 
born on June 23, 1959, inprogramming with fortran," 115 CCMB, free of charge, 

Vasquez, Carol Cornwall, 
Evanston, IL. He lived in South Surviving are his parents, Mr.

sponsored by computing center. 
Carol Shuback, Tina Terlook 
Bend since 1967, after moving and Mrs. Cecil Jump, a sister,Early Morning Typists:Kim from Evansville, IN. Jump was Mrs. Jill Hollenback of Lafay­3:30pm TENNIS smc vs. ind. st. u., ANGELA COURTS 

Convey, Carrie Britt 
a sophomore at the Michiana ette, and six brothers, Darryl,
Day Editor:Patsy Canpbell 
Colle~e of Commerce~ of Evansville; Jerome, a stu­4:30 pm COllOQUIUM, "a mathematical theory of Proof Reader:Dodee Carney Services will be at 10:30 a.m. dent at Purdue, and John,competition on micro-organisms in continuous cultures,'' Ad Design:Barb Pratt, Flo tomorrow in Corpus Christi Jeffery and Jay, all of Southprof. paul waltman, u. of iowa, CCMB 

0 'Connell, Chris Slatt 
Catholic Church. Burial will be Bend.
Photographer:Tim McKeogh5: 15 pm MASS & SUPPER, BUllA SHED 

Copy Edaors:Bruce Oakely, Mar/beth Moran 

7, 9, 11 jm FILM, "harold & maude," ENGR. AUD., 
Sunday Masses 
Tilt Obltrvtr [USPS 511 12111 Is published Mond1y through F=­cept during 111m 1nd vacatlln . 

sponsore by student union, $1 
at
an

7, 8:45 & 10:30 pm FILM, "high anxiety," CARROll 
The Observer Is publlshld by tilt 
canJPus
HAll, SMC, $1 
students of Notre 011111 IIIII Stint 


Sacred Heart Church
M1ry's Colllgl. Sublcri,U.SIIIIJ Ill 
miniStry
purchued for S2ll per year [111 per

7, 9, 11 pm FILM, "everything you always wanted to know 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c.
st!Nittrl from The Observer. P.O. box

about sex," KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HAll, $1 (members 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward Malloy, c.s.c.
a. Notn1 Dame, lndllu 411i56. SlcOIId 
free) 
cl11s ~· pild, Notre Dame, ln­
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 


7:30 am TEST, medical college admissions test, ENGR. AUD. 
9 am TENNIS, nd/smc tennis tournament, ANGELA & ND COURTS 
9':15 am TRIP, to sr. marita's primary day school, sponsored by alpha phi omega service frat., BACK OF ADMINISTRA­TION BUILDING 
2 pm MICHIGAN SMOKER, K OF C HAll, open to members and their guests 
2:20pm FOOTBAll, nd vs. michigan, ANN ARBOR 
7, 9, 11 pm FILM, "everything you always wanted to kno"V about sex," K OF C HAll, $1 (members free) 
7, 8:45' & 10:30 pm FILM, "high anxiety," CARROll HAll, SMC, $1 
Back to School Specials 

Sunday, September 16, 1979 
~.....-------,
II 

2 pm L'ARCHE MASS, SACRED HEART CHURCH 


$2.00 OFF I

CRYPT, everyone welcome 
I I2 pm MEETING, self defense and judo, sponsored by nd 
I On Any 14" Pizza Ijudo club, the self defense judo club IS going to be outlined, 
SECOND FLOOR ROCKNE SOUTH GYM 
I I 

3, 6, 8 pm FILM, "controlling interest: the world of the 
1Limit 1 coupon per PizzaI

multinational corp.," WASH. HAll, sponsored by student government & center for experiential learning 
I I 

3, 6, 8:30pm FILM, "norma rae," ENGR. AUD. 

I $1.00 OFF I 

4 pm SEMINAR, christian spirituality, open to all, LOG 
I 
I I

CHAPEL 
On Any 10" Pizza I

4, 7, 9 pm FILM, "the politics of torture," WASH. HALL, sponsored by student govt. & center for experiential learning 
Lcoupon Expires Oct. sJ 


6:45 pm MEETING, cila, LIBRARY AUD. 
Open Sundays 4 to 10 pm 

7, 9, 11 pm FILM, "everything you always wanted to know about sex," K OF C HAll, $1 (members free) 
Serving Pizza, Sandwiches, . 

7 pm LECTOR WORKSHOP, for all who plan to be lectors at 
Cold Drafts, and a Salad Bar hall masse·s, HAYES-HEALY AUD., sponsored by campus ministry 
1•...,. TlllrL 11 1.11. to 11:38 P·•· Fri. &Sat. 11 Lll. to 12:30 p.11.

7:30pm MEETING, new members welcome, sponsored by bicycle touring club. LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 

713 E. Jlffer1111, Se. l•d
2a•1 
3724 Gr1111 Read lishawaka-25&-0121·



Weather 
Partly cloud} today and, ••<)I High ~n the mid and up~er 60s. Clr·aring tonight and cooln. Low 10 the low and mtd 40s. M~stly sunny tt>nwrrow and cool. High in the low and mid 
-----------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------J 
.f:,Os. 
----~------~------------­

.."., ' 
The Observer Friday, September 14, 1979-page 3 
MIT energy-study head defends nuclear option 


HERSHEY, Pa. (AP) -Dr. Norman Rasmussen, author of a report that served for a time as a standard on atomic safety, defended the nuclear power option yesterday despite the nsks highlighted by the Three Mile Island accident. 
"If we wait for a no-risk solution to the energy problem, I suggest we'll get rio solution at all, and that, in the end, could be the biggest mistake," said Rasmussen, head of nucle­ar energy studies at the Massa­chusetts Institute of Technolo­gy. 
Rasmussen spoke at a con­ference on radiation and health held here, 10 miles from the site of the worst commercial nuclear accident in U.S. his­tory. The conference was sponsored by Penn State Uni­versity. 
He acknowledged that nuclear power involves risk of injury, early fatality, latent cancers, genetic defects and other di­sease but added: "I have concluded the risks are small compared to many other risks we accept in our society." 
"If the aircraft industry was based on the possibility of a 
plane  crashing  into  Yankee  
Stadium,  it  wouldn't  exist,"  
Rasmussen said.  

He also predicted the March 28 accident would yield bene­fits, including "a real shakeup" of the Nuclear Regulatory Com­mission. ''TMI will have a net positive impact on the safety of reactors if its negative impact doesn't wipe out the option all together," he said. 
''It reduced the air of compla­cency among utility operators. 
by Dodee Carney 
Funds for improvement of hall social space may be allo­cated, according to Bill . Vita, Student Body vice prestdent, but contrary to what he said at the Hall President's Council meeting Tuesday night, the money 1s not yet in the budget. 
A coordinating committee has been formed to investigate the condition and amount of They're all -now shaken. They understand that attention to the details ofsafety is vitally impor­tant to protect their investment and the public health," Ras­mussen said. ''It will also encourage re-thinking of the regulatory process." 

Rasmussen's 1975 report for the federal government on the probability of nuclear accidents was consulted widely in licen­sing procedures until called into question last year. Critics argued that the margins of error associated with parts of the report undermined Ras­mussen's overall conclusions about safety. 
His report predicted an acci­dent wtth a radiation release comparable to Three Mile Is­land could occur between every 250 and 250,000 reactor years. The actual accident occurred 

From all indications these golfers wtll not make par.on this hole. [Photo by Mike Bigley)
after 400 years of reactor opera­tions. 





BOard proposes tighter fund control 
poses. The student body
By Mary Fran Callahan treasurer could then bring any questionable expenditures to the attentiom of the Board. 
Last night, the Board of . ·However, no formal proposalCommissioners explored the ~·was completed. possibility of strengthins con­The board also set Sept. 27 as trols on the use of orgamzation­the date for the organizations'
al funds. Several board mem­budget hearings. Any organi­bers expressed concern about zations seeking funds should lack of control over funds once submit their proposals then. they had been allocated. The commissioner reiterated 
A working proposal was sub­the criteria for an organization mitted givmg the student body to receive student funds. Bill treasurer the responsibility of Roche, Student Body President, insuring that allocated funds stressed that the number of are used for worthwhile pur-students who are to benefit 
Vita discusses social space plans 
social space in the halls.  Its  talking  to  rectors  and  seeing  
members  are  Fr.  John  Van  firsthand what is needed.  
Wolvlear,  viceAff  president· Th  for rna  . 'All  h 11 a s  d nee so · me un­ 

d

Stu ent . au-s;..., .?~...§.""-vement but some are better 
Mason VlCe prestdent ror 
· ' Aff · . Donald
Bustness atrs,
Diedrich head of Maintenance; Fi. Mich~el Heppen, director of Student Accounts, and students 
Jose Marrero, Frank Guilfoyle, and Vita. 
Vita said that he, Heppen and Guilfoyle have been going around to the different dorms 1.-.ffv h h' . ;, h "d v· 

o t an ot ers, e sat . tta
1 h · d h f d 'f 
as~ emp .a~tze t. at un s, I avatlable, wtll be S.Wen. to those dorn;s most needing tmprove­
men · . . . 
The Admmtstrauon agreed that adequate social spa :e for dorms is a ma~te~ that. sho~ld be given top pnonty, Vtta satd. 
should be the primary consid­-proposal. The administr~t~on eration. Final budget decisions is expected to release a dec1s1on will be released Sunday, Sept. on the proposal within the next 
30. ten days. If a rejection should 
The Board also reaffirmed be handed down, appeals will support for the CLC' s keg be prepared. 

NEW Shanghai Restaurant 
·------­
Specializing in Northern Chinese Mandarin Food Featuring: 
-.8 Entrees, Chinese-American Lunch Buffet 
Mon.-Sat. 11:30-2:00 -Sunday Brunch served 11 :00-3:00 -Mongolian Style Barbeque (ccoked in dining room) -Open 7 days 
Visit our newly decorated show room 
--· ------------­

Live Band "Champion" 
Dancing, Tue.-Sat., 9:00-1:30 
Located at Randall's New Century Inn Just minutes away from campus 


Phone 272-7900 For Reservations 

••Open House•• 
Wednesday , Sept. 19th 3:00pm 'till 5:00pm 

Free Hair wnsultation by Award-Winning Gordon Nelson 


Regis Hai_rstylists University Park Mall Phone 272-1168 
.... 18,000 a;lbuma and ta;p•a Jn stock ND/5mC student ch.cks a;cc•pt~ for up to S20.00 ov., purcha,. amount Op•n 10 to 10, 7 days a w••k 
Rivet City Recotds 
50970 U.S. 31 Notth 

The Observer 
Drink More For LESS at the 






,Senior Bar 
Saturday Sept. 15 
r 
r 
r 
with
r 
~ 
ALSO: Saturday is the last day to pick up any Senior Bar cards which were ordered over the summer. 

I f 
Friday, Sept em her 14, 1979 -page 4 
.,. 


Judge sentences six Nazis 
BUECKEBURG, West Kuehnen was the leader of a crimes tn connection with ter­Germany (AP) -A West gang, he incited his neo-Naxi rorist gang attacks. German judge sentenGed six friends to criminal acts, "con­neo-Nazis yesterday to prison sidering them tests of courage, A report by the West German terms of four to 11 Jears on but knew how to keep clean." interior ministry in July said charges they organize or part­The court said former army neo-Nazi groups are adopting icipated in right-wing criminal Master Sgt. · Lothar-Harold the terrorist tactics of left-wing activity planned by their Amer­Schulte, 26, was responsible for extremist groups, though It ican leader. most of the gang's violent acts, emphasized their activity was 
The prison sentences followed including a Feb. 5, 1978, attack not a threat to national security. the first major trial of neo-Nazis on Dutch soldiers during NATO It said 24 neo-Nazi groups with in this country and came after a maneuvers. Schulte and his 1,300 members were opera£ing government report warned that neo-Nazi friends disarmed the in West Germany early this such groups were adopting soldiers and robbed them of year, compared with 17 groups terrorist tactics in an effort to their automatic weapons, the with 900 members reported in overthrow democracy. · court said. 1977. 
After a four-month trial, the Schulte was sentenced to 11 The report mentioned the court concluded that the six years in prison, found guilty of group loyal to Lauck, saying it men followed the orders of theft, leading a criminal gang, has distributed swastika post­self-styled U.S. Nazi leader causing bodily injury and other ers and· anti-Semitic literature. 
Gary Rex Lauck, of Lincoln, Neb. Lauck, 25, classified by the federal prosecutor's office as ''persona non grata'' in Minority liason West Germany, was given a safe conduct pass and immunity so he could enter the country and testify for the defense. 
Williams discusses role 
Members of the neo-Nazis by Kathryn Casey policy and its effect on minori­group, in frequent public ap­ties. 
pearances, wear black para­''I am attempting to main­The oosition of secretary formilitary outfits with insignias stream the minority community Interracial Concerns was Intro­resembling the outlawed Nazi into the larger ~otre Dame duced here in 1977.
swastika emblem. Much of community," said arryl Willi­''The two people before metheir propaganda material re­ams, Student Gov rnment sec­didn't do a thing with theportedly 1s supplied by Lauck, rttary for Interrac al Concerns, r.osition," he commented.
who speaks fluent German. 
in discussing his bjectives for 'Now it's up to me to define the The court found Lauck's this year. position."friend, Michael Kuehnen; 24, Williams defined his role as Williams is also planning a 
' guilty of inciting racial hatred, liaison between minority stu­student disco , to encouragespreading propaganda for an dents and student government. intermingling and therebyillegal organization and inciting He said he will try to convey the break down barriers amongchauvinism. But it dismissed a unique problems lof the minori­students. There will be three charge that Kuehnen, a former ty community to the student disco nights throughout the 
army lieutenant, was founder of government and University ad­year.the gang. ministrators. Williams said that several In testimony on Aug. 23, Williams has tentatively sche­other plans are still at the Lauck described Kuehnen as duled a minority student forum, trouble-shooting stage, and he 
his faithful follower ''who lis­for Wednesday, Oct. 17th. The welcomes questions or ideas. tens to me.'' forum will allow University He may be reached at 816 Kuehnen was sentenced to administrators including Dean Grace Hall or call #6873. 
four years in prison. While Roemer and Vice President for Williams works closely with Judge Helmut Mcischuering Student Affairs Fr. John Van Ed Blackwell, Minority Student said there was no proof t~at Wolvlear to discuss University Affairs coordinator . 

Buy anyfour Mead products marked ''Buck Back.'' And Mead ··will give you a buck back. It's just one way Mead helps you buck the system. 


'-· 
The Observer Friday, September 14, 1979 ~ page 5 
L.A. chOk~s under sn1og blanket; respiratory cases in'crease 50%--------­
LOS ANGELES (AP) Scores of 
people checked into hospitals 
with respiratory problems yes­
terday as Southern California 
choked and wept for the se­
venth straight day under a dirty 
yellow blanket of the worst 
smog in 25 years. 
Air quality officials issued 
"hazardous" air warnings for six areas--the first time this has ever been done. Hospitals in the hard-hit San Fernando and San Gabriel Valleys reported increases of up to 50 percent in the number of patients showing up with chrome lung diseases severely aggravated by the 
smog. And today's pollution • 
was expected to be even worse. 
Also for the first time in 
history, the Air Quality Man­
agement District asked aU busi­
nesses, regardless of the num­
ber of employees, to begin 
voluntary cat: pooling. How­
evt:r, state highway officials 
said there was no significant 
decrease in freeway commuter 
traffic. 
Aggravating the eye-stinging, 
stale-smelling haze was a rag­
in~ brush fire near Mount 
Wilson north of the city, which 
sent clouds of brown smoke and 
soot over the entire area. 
In addition, temperatures 
were reaching into the lOOs in 
many sections, high humidity 
contmued to grip the area, and 
the city's bus strike was dump­
ing thousands of extra cars onto 
already jammed freeways. 
The basic cause, however, was 
a typical late-summer weather 
pattern that leaves dirty air 
stagnant under a stationary 
high-pressure system hovering over the SJ?rawling basin. 
Ray Cortmes, Superintendent for the surburban Pasadena Unified School District, said he had ordered all outside activi­ties canceled. Two of his high schools -John Muir and Pasa­dena -were particularly hard hit because of the schools' nearness to the Mount Wilson fire. 
Six second-stage alerts were issued for yesterday, with maxi­mum levels forecast to hit the .46 parts per million count, according to AQMD spokesman Jeff Schenkel. ''It may be worse than we even anticipa­ted," he said. 
Yesterday was the seventh straight day ofheavy smog over the area, the worst siege since 1955, when there were 13 straight days of second-stage smog alerts. The current crisis was expected to continue through the weekend. 
By law, second-stase alerts require a reduction in mdustrial emissions at 2,600 firms,-and AQMD inspectors fanned out across ·the area yesterday to make sure the rules were being followed. 
OJmmittee on Sex Offences seeks help for victims 
-The Women's Committee On gram will begirr this fidl. Sex Offenses is seeking pro­Training focuses on the needs spectivt volunteers for S-0-S of victims, psychologically and (Sex Offense Staff), a confiden­emotionally. Volunteers are tial, emotional support service also educated in the areas of for victims of sexual abuse in medical and legal procedures, St. Joseph County. referrals, and intake proced­
Volunteers are men and ures. All areas of sexual abuse women who can accompany a are discussed, including rape, victim when seeking medical or child molestation, incest, and legal attention. They are also indecent exposure. available for telephone contact. Becoming an S-0-S volunteer 
S-0-S volunteers are asked to can be a rewarding and mean­be on call for two six hour shifts ingful way to use your time. per week. S-0-S is a 24-hour S-0-S is particularly in need of service reached through Hot­people who are often available line, a crisis intervention tele­to fill daytime shifts as well as phone service. Being on call evening shifts. requires volunteers to be avail­Anyone interested in becom­able by telephone, usually from ing a volunteer or learning their home. more about S-0-S can call 
A ten-session training pro-Hotline at 232-3344. 
In Sic#y 
Etna death toll reaches nine 
CATANIA , Sicily (AP) -The an Italian tourist who was of Catania was destroyed in death toll in Mount Etna's first waiting with her infant chil~ for four months ofvolcanic activity, fatal eruption this century a cable car wl\en the sumxmt. of-~lli+lg , tens of thousands of climbed to nine yesterday and the towering mountain explod-people, rescue workers feared more ed. bodies might still be buried "Right in front of me there 
under ''rocks as big as houses'' was a young couple with a ---------------------------------------------, 
near the volcano's summit. child. I saw the man fall with 
Three badly dismembered his skull crushed. She was bodies were found near the uninjured and tried to pick him main crater yesterday. Six up. When she understood other bodies had been recover-there was nothing to be done, ed after the volcanic explosion she grabbed the child in her Wednesday. All the victims arms and ran," Miss Daloir told were Italians. reporters_ 
Surgeons, meanwhile, per-Another tourist, Silvana Peila, formed amputations on almost said that when her group a dozen inJured survivors. A almost reached its bus, "A total of more than two dozen small but sharp stone" hit a persons were injured, including Swiss man and sliced off his left tourists from Britain, Spain.and leg. Switzerland, but no Americans. Newspapers and a leading 
At least four were reported in volcano expert questioned why critical condition following e-authorities did not close the mergency surgery. road and cableway to the 10,705 
A rescue official said that if foot mountaintop after the vol­there are more dead they may cano began pouring smoke never be found "because froin Monday. Police reported there what we've seen so far, some were more than 150 tourists on l victims must literally have been -the lip of the main crater when blown to pieces." Europe's tallest and most active 
Franco Elmi, 35, an Alpine volcano began spewing ash, gas guide, said he saw a "huge and lava-filled hot rocks. fireball" land on a Land Rover, Prof. Romolo Romano, Direc­leaving virtually no trace of the tor of Catania's Institute of vehicle. Vulcanology, said the explo­
' 'There were about 30 tourists sian, although not predicted, in our group, and we all began was not a new eruption of Etna running toward the bus. But but part of the volcano's "nor­the'n another big rock hit a mal'' continuing activity follow­woman who was ahead of me, ing a week-long eruption last and the next minute, she was month. gone, /·ust disappeared. It was Wedn~sday's deaths were the horrib e," he said. first this century to have been 
"Mter a sudden, shattering caused by Etna. A sudden explosion, rocks as big as eru~tion in ,1842 killed .10 houses began falling all over tounsts. Etna s worst eruptior the place," said Silvia Daloir, occurred in 1669, when the city 

/ 
NOBLE ROMANS is now taking applications for counter help,pie persons, waiters and waitresses. Work schedules can be arranged around class schedules. Apply in person. Phone 277-5300 
Corner of Grape and Cleveland rds. • across from University Park Mall • 
~
r • • • • 
rfver cfty records presentsan evenfng with ... 
tloet.tl\ 
,..o~\~ "'~\~t-tl..n.ttl 
. "' ,\)~\.\'' 
and special guest to be announced 
sunday september 23td 8:00pm mORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUm SOUTH BEND 
\ 
~TICKETS: J8.50/ S7.50 reserved and are on sale now at RIVER CITY RECORDS on US 31 North ONLY call 277-4242 for further information 
NET CHAIR 
25% off with ~his ad 
sale price J40.50 

20% oH oiT wfne rocks with thiS coupon coupon/one per cuatomer good tt.ru Sept. 16, 1979 
see our selection of: 
ailkacreens J7.99 to 19.99 backgammon J19.99 to 39.99 reading lampa J16 to J45 butterfly-chafta J34.99 
mood lampa J291 to J69 
100 CENTER 
MISHAWAKA. INDIANA 46544 
Phone(219)255-2824 
1·­
.. 

THE LIFESTYLE FURNITURE COMPANY 
L------------~~------~----------~----------~~ 
The Observer 
Friday, September 14, 1979-page 6 

r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r" 
, \ 
r r 
~ 
' 
"BUD" 
39 
I 24 
"12 oz. cans 
PI DELUXE
499
BLAC<!< LABE>L __ OLYMPIA___599 HIENEKEt~ ___375 
2 12 oz. cans (24 12 oz. cans) dark or light (6 pk bottles) BLEIID 
3''
DARK E1E~S 
"'·

10Dll 
VODKA 
3'! 
KORBEL 
JIM BEAM
BRAIIDY 
BOURBON f49 
9!~1tr.
'·751tr. 

GIACOBAZZI -~ LAMBRUSCO 


SwHt 
tr Dry
GALLO VERMOUTH 
PRICES GOOD WHILE SUPPLY LASTS 

VISA' 
WE HAVE KEGS TOOII 
PBR, 24/12 OZ. cans $5.71 254 DIXIE~VA Y N. (ROSELAND)
Miller, 24/12 OZ. CIRS 1.71 Miller Uti, 24112 oz. cans 1.• 
200 N. ~ffAIN (ELKHART) Busch, 24/12 oz. CIRS -1.7t 
PLUS 4 CONVENIENCE STORES:
Mlchelob 12/pk 3.71 Mlchelob Uti 12/pk 3.71 , • 1725 II. IIOIIWOOD • 2134 E. leiIIIlO Stroh's, 24/12 oz. CIRS 1.• • 1426 MISHAWAKA lYE. • 4411 S. IICHIGII Stroh's Ught, 24/12 oz. cans 1.• Molson's Aiel 8Mr, 6/pak 2.• 
Prices good through ~londay, September 17 PHONE .tn-ISII
Old MIIWIUkll, 24/12 oz. cans 4.• 
ALL STORES ()PEN Monday thru Thursday t am fO tO,.
CHECK OUR OTHER BEER PRICESII Friday and S•turdey I • to tt ,_ PRICES GOOD WHILE QUANTITIES LAST 


The Observer Friday, September 14, 1979 ~page 7 
In world sports : Located In the Ticket : • OHice, 2nd floor •
Juliano wants NO to lead 
: Lafortune • eOpen 12~4 monday thtu :
by Robert G. Powers "I believe sports is the single dicine, or the law of sport. All most important currency of these are contemporary themes e (Otdets limited to Blllboatds e 
mass communication in the in our society," said Juliano. 
e Top 50 the FIRST week.) e
world to foster international The Notre Dame Collection is"My hope and dream is to see brotherhood. International continually being updated. ItNotre Dame assume leadership sport has become the manifes­was greatly multiplted in 1975for international sports re­tation of political strength. with the purchase of the Gold-r-------~----­~;!pen M,>n. · Thurs. 11-8 search,'' stated Herbert J uli­
Therefore, it is becoming an faden Collection of California. I Fri., Sat. 11-11ano, curator for the Notre Dame 
Sun. 11:30-8
increasinl! area of internation­"If I see a book that I don't 1International Sports and Games 
al study,'' he said. have that would add to the 1 "Meet me at theResearch Collection. 
''As an international sports lhe importance of sport is not Collection, I type out an order 1 center we would sponsor sym­only of concern to the research­blafiK-·.mti-hope to get it. · I 
posiums, conferences, and pro­er. "The sports phenomenon is Reading and correspondence I 
vide a place for people with all over the world. Everywhere keep me in touch with what is expertise to meet, exchange there is increased participation, going on. We're now in the ideas, and seek research,'' more spectators, and greater process of completely updating political impact. It affects what our journal collection,'' he said. 
Juliano said. 
we watch on TV and what we The Collection not only servesJuliano also envisions an Ath­
letic Hall of Honor "To read," Juliano emphasized. as a research center, but pro­combine an international sports ''The psychology of this phe­vides another valuable, but research center with an Athletic nomenon, called the spectacle somewhat unnoticed, service. 
Hall of Honor would serve a of sport, must be explored. It is "I'm not sure this University's dual purpose. It would com­increasingly important to con­Administration is aware that memorate Notre Dame's great duct in depth studies, particu­this collection has become in­larly wan a world perspective," creasingly important in the
tradition and serv~ the progress 
he continued. puhlr.,; relations area for theof sports. I can see no fl.ner 
"Much of the literature writ­University. I have to be careful example of a · dual purpose ten today deals with sport with whom I deal. ' I nowbuilding on campus.'' 
related disciplines --psycholo­''The Notre Dame Athletic 
[continued on page 10]
gy, sociology, philosophy, me-
Hall of Honor would be a place in which will be recognized the 
names of who, -----------------------------·
those as 
"Players" and "Builders," Salnt Mary's Speaker's Series smc sapb movie series presents 
have contributed to the devel­opment of Notre Dame athletics 
over its 134 years of existence," Presents MEL BROOKS' 
he explained. The Sports and Games Collec-
Dave Toma, 
• tion, located on the fl.rst floor of 
High Anxiety
the library, was established in 1966 to provide resources for ·Former Newark pollee detective, whose 
the serious and scholarly study 
of sports. "I believe we have true life experiences as a cop were the Friday & Sat. Sept. 14th ·-15 
kept to that goal," Juliano 
added. basts for the series 'Baretta& Toma' at Carrol Hall Smc.
Although the Collection has adhered to its original purpose, Juliano said there is need for 
Carroll Hall SMC Mon. Sept. 17 Spm 7:00, 8:45,
expansion. "This campus has a lot of sports memorabilia dis­seminated throughout. It's I 
10:30 kind of a shame it is stored in I 
closets," he said: Admission $1.00 
Juliano continued to stress the I No Admission scholarly significance of estab-I lishing an international re-1­search center. 

O'Meara Appoints Black-well Head of Black Studies Progrrun 
by Tom O'Toole 
' 
Edward Blackwell, currentlY the director of Minority Student­Affairs at Notre Dame, was recently announced as the interim director of the Black Studies Program by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, University Provost. 
The appointment became necessary when Dr. James B. Stewart, assistant professor of economics and the program's last director, left his post to accept a National Endowment for the Humanities research fellowship. Blackwell says he experienced ''mixed emotions'' about his appointment. 
"There's always the caution one feels about trying some­thing new," he admitted. Still, he is "very pleased that the people who have appointed me have the faith that I can handle the position." 
While he is extremely an­xious about the new role, minority student affairs is still his fl.rst love and he has "no intentions of assuming the job on a full time basis." 
One of Blackwell's primary tasks will be selecting a per­manent director to succeed Dr. Stewart, who has chosen to accept a similar post at Penn in 1980. 
Blackwell said, "I am looking 
Edward Blackwell 
forward to the cooperation of the Arts and Letters College and Dean Charles," as well as a group from the Black Studies Program, to aid me in this selection.'' This committee will also assist him in a thorough evaluation of the program goals and functions. 
Blackwell said, ''The interim is a good time to examine the program's direction, for it re­lieves the new director of this burden.'' 
To Blackwell, determining how well Black Studies is functioning means a return to the program's roots in the civil rights movement in the late 60s. Blackwell emphasized, "We must look at the pro­~ram's goals and aims at its mception to determine if the program has reached its poten­tial as an academic entity.'' 
Blackwell also expressed some rather interesting solu­tions to some of the program's . current problems. 
Commenting on the Black Cultural Arts Festival, he said that "lack of attendance is not due to lack of publicity, but lack of awareness,'' of the students. He thought· that one. way to increase their awareness was to ''get everyone on campus in­volved in a course or two in Black Studies." 
When questioned if this could mean establishing a Uni­versity requirement in the major, he said the idea was "reasonable," adding, "There is always an educational value in learning about a culture outside your own.'' 
A native of Buffalo, Blackwell studied at Canisius College, where he then became assistant director of Career Development and administrative assi~-. ;r u; ro the vice president of Student Affairs He later worked as ....-.~.m::Llor at the University of New York at Buffalo, and also was thf' riean's assistant for Minority Programs at Holbart and W 1lham Smith College in Geneva, N.Y. before coming to Notre Dame. 
c a~ 
General staff meeting for those interested in working on the Blue 
Mantle-Monday, Sept. 17 at 7pm-Blue Mantle room-Regma south basement 
• .,•
r. 
b
• 
/'Dick's Stnndcud Stntlon "'\ 
welcomes you back with a 
Free Car & Tiuck-Wash & Wax 
with this ad. Good Monday thn1 Friday offer expires Sept. 28, 1979. l )ick's Standard offers complete repair 1obs on American arid foreign cars. 
\:rnet of South Bend & Eddg 234~0707} 
: It's Here! : : Student Union : 
! RECORD STORE ! 
, 
~
, 
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
, 
, 
., 

L----------------------------~ 
--------------~------­
Friday, September 14, 1979-page 8 
Capping: T11e Oass Of 1981 
Mary D. Ryan 
was the hardest major on campus. At the ttme
Editor's Note: The author of the following 
my response was an emphatic ''no ''. But now
column is one of44 Saint Mary's nursing majors who wzll be capped at tomorrow night's I'm beginning to see it cfifferently. The greatestceremonies in the Church of Loretto 01~ Saint difficulty in the major, the greatest challenge we Mary's campus. face from an academic view, is the task of 
Leaving the quiet green ofa beautiful morning gaining an upper level liberal arcs education. I entered Havican Hall. The sounds ofchildren's Our schedule makes that necessary task a voices float down the corridor from the Early labyrinth. We must work to beat a system -­Childhood Development Center, sometimes instituted for our professional benefit --to echoing, always adding to the surrealistic become holistic professionals. atmosphere of detachment. Women shuffle in There is yet another challenge, and we and I toss my home-made pillow on my sc:at --a celebrate it Saturday night. As nurses we have weak appeasement to my coccyx for the long already chosen a definite profession. Unlike four-hour stretch ahead. most we feel it is important to attest our decision 
Holistic man becomes more tharl a central in public, to witness to and receive support from theme for nurses at Saint Mary's; it serves as a our community. As Christians, we are not only challenge. The subtlety of this challenge is witnessing to each_ other but also to God. It is often overlooked. Since our freshman nursing natural then for us to celebrate this within l'he seminar,-the definition and applications of Mass. holistic man have been presented and repre­Everything about this evening --the presence sented. Its importance to our roles as nurses is of our families and friends, the building we far from unknown to us. We have become gather in, and the Word we will hear --centers accustomed to thinking of our client's totality -on two themes. The first is our knowledge that yet I fear we are in danger of losing our own. we come to God with our skills and dedication, 
I think it was my coccyx that gave me tbe first and the second is our recognition of the warnings, and then faded voices of the liberal importance we play in supporttng each other arts joined in. Like a sober realization, I began within this community. The challenge to be our to see that the threat of entering a vocational/ best (self-actualization), for God, our patients, technological school was creeping up on rne. and each other is never-ending, and it officially 
Someone once asked me if I thought nursing begins tomorrow night. 
Cuban Tho~rn Pains Again 
Mario .A . Rivera 
Revolutionary Cuba's less government is something else been reporting a missile build­photogenic side is showing again. It tenaciously holds on up for some time, as had the again. In 1975, after a couple of to the Guantanamo naval base underground and other in-Cuba years of rapprochement toward and pen;ists in its economic sources. These repons were on resumption of U.S. -Cuba di­embargo on the island. the whole dismissed as hysteria plomatic relations, Castro For the U.S. government or deliberate misrepresentationlaunched on his African expedi­there is Soviet personnel (3,000 persuant to drawing the U.S. tion. Although President Car­troops and perhaps another toto toppling Castro. When, ter found this expression of 17 000 Soviet bloc advisors of shockingly, confirmation came Cuban ''internationalism'' va~ious sorts,-.most with mili­in the form of U-2 photos, the 
troublesome, progress toward tary training); late model missiles were almost operation­
normalization of relations con­MIG-23s capable with some al and the crisis inevitable. tinued with the establishment refitting of delivering nuclear Since the resolution of theof count~~part diplom~tic ~i~­weapons into the U.S. throu~ crisis, the same troublesome 
stons or Interest sections • .,. m its vulnerable southern flan and "unreliable" sources have Washington and Havana; the two new Cuban submarin been reporting that offensive reopening of a tourist route to plus Soviet nuclear subs via th,:: missiles rematned in Cuba. 
Cuba for Americans (including, Cienfuegos stop-over base; Kennedy admitted (Conversa­
after some hesitation on the Turya-class hydrofoil patrdl tions with Kennedy) that there Cuban side, Cuban Americans); boats; and a growing assort­was no way of reafly knowing and the negotiation ofrelease to whether the missiles had
ment of Soviet weaponry gt­all 
the U.S. of some of Fidel's erally. Additionally, there i a been removed. Cuba has one of political prisoners, with the three-ship Soviet task gr p the largest natural cave com­bargaining done almost entirely under sutveillance off Cuba. plexes in the world and this between Cuban American As the Wall Street journal underground network (largely representatives and the Cuban of soft limestone) and otherputs it, ''The thor~ of Fidel 
government. sites have been reported over
Castro's Cuba, stuck to the U.S. 
American executives visited paw for nearly 20 the years to house IRMs, ICMs, 
years . no;-:, Cuba, their wives tugged at has been 1:wisung a lutle bu... MIGs, and Soviet-troops. 
Fidel's beard,-and all seemed Suddenly hemispheric security Granted that these reports may ready to dismiss his perennial seems threatened once more by be exaggerated, the extent of and virulent anti-Americanism an island the size of Pennsyl­the Cuban conventional and as a personality quirk respon­vania with a populati<;>n ~he si~e nuclear threat to the U.S. sive to the U.S. government of New York City. Ktssmger ts remains undetermined, and and not its people. reported to _have s~id ~f its may well be greater than that 
Now it turns out that Cuba is imtial forays mto Afnca! Who represented by the newly dis­once again perceived as a peril ever heard of Cuban mterna­covered troops, subs, patrol to the U.S. To borrow symbol­tionalism)"--of Cuba playing boats, etc. Whether the Soviet 
ism, one Cuban talon offers an international role? John F. Union·has reneged on its po~t­
peace and beckons the dollar, Kennedy did, and it was the Missile Crisis agreements wtth while the other defiantly, if bane of his administration. the U.S. cannot be settled by somewhat surreptitiously, Now Cuba threatens SALT II State Department fiat, as has brandishes the latest Soviet ratification. been attempted since 1962. weaponry and, for good meas­The last time the thorn The administration must come ure, troops. For the prospec­turned in earnest was during to terms with the intractable tive tounst there is Varadero the Mis:>ile Crisis of 1962, Cuban problem. As lo':lg as i~s Beach, Havana Club rum, and, which almost precipitated nu­denouement is uncertatn, ·so 1s 
of course, cigars. But the U.S. clear war. Cuban extles had ours.. 
institution. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-tn-chief. . .Rosemary Mills Features Editor . . K. Connelly Managing Eciiwr ...... Diane Wilson Phnrn Frlirnr Ooug lhn"!iaf' Ediwrial Ediwr .......... Ann Gales Sports Editor . . Mark Perry Senior Copy Editor ...... M. _Onufra~ Executive News Edttor ....Mtke Lewts Business Manager . . . Steve Odland News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager . . Tim Sullivan News Editor .......... Mike Shields Advertising Manager .......Bob Rl,ld\ Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Controller . . . . . . . . Kevm Manton 
SMC News Editor.......... M. Brassil Circulation Manager..... Greg Hedges. 

--~-----­
The Observer Friday, September 14, 1979 ~page 9 
1978-79
With ND women 
BLUE MANTLE DISTRIBUTION
SMC sophotnores sponser mass 
to students abroad last semester, 
by Mary Agnes Carey 
Saint Mary's sophomore class will sponsor an outdoor mass/ brunch for Notre Dame's sopho­more women, Sunday from 11 
a.m. until 1 p.m. at St. Mary's Clubhouse, or at Stapleton Lounge in case of rain, an­nounced Leslie Griffith, SMC sophomore class president. 
''When we campaigned la~t year, the Saint Mary's ~iris wanted to plan more activities with girls from ND. We thought we would start on the spiritual level and figured something outside, such as a mass and brunch, would be something the girls could really relate to because it has a purpose," Leslie explained. 
The mass will be celebrated by Father Joseph Keena and will feature eucharistic ministers, 
readers,  and  musicians  from  
both  Notre  Dame  and  Saint  
Mary's.  

Missy Conboy, treasurer of Notre Dame's sophomore class and co-chairman for the event, stated, ''The girls are really promoting the event in their dor'?s and the ~ophomore class advtsory councll ts expecting a good turnout." . 
Steve Bruemmer, sophomore 
class president, agreed,' 'I think 
it will be a good event for 
everyone involved,'' he stated. 
Although the lack of shuttle 
service may be an obstacle, 
Mary O'Keefe, Saint Mary's 
sophomore class vice-presi­
dent, feels this is a minor inc;:onvenience, "We're hoping not only for agood turnout, but that thase who attend will really get something· out of it," she commented. 
Another future event planned for ND-SMC sophomores is ''Wild Wednesday,'' which will feature volleyball, frisbee and snacks at Saint Mary's Club­house green, next Wednesday from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Plans are tentative for a tail­gater and Halloween party and will be announced later. 
Upcoming events for Saint Mary's sophomores include try­outs for the Sophomore Parents Weekend Show, next Tuesday and Thursday, from 8 p.m. to 9 
p.m. in Re~ina Auditorium; a dinner auctton/ hayride at Dia­mond Ranch, scheduled for Friday, Nov.2, and an ice skating party or winter semi­formal is planned for Friday, Nov.30. 
Sophomores who wish to apply 
Prof explains hurricanes 
by Sal Granata 
Wind conditions and fluctuat­ing ocean currents are possible explanations for the series of hurricanes that have recentlv hit the Gulf coast and eastern seaboard 
Professor Kenneth Brehob of the Earth Science Dept. told the Observer yesterday that the hurricane and tropical storm seasorreaches its peak between August and the end of October. 
During this time, changes in wind and ocean patterns deter­mine the direction hurricanes will take as they leave thetr Caribbean breeding grounds. 
Hurricane David, first to hit the U.S. this year, churned a 
• • • Coast 
[continued from page 1] 
Wednesday, cutting two or three channels through the narrow resort islet. It pushed northward along the Alabama­Mississippi line, though 25 people had refused to leave Dauphin Island, only one was reported injured. 
Scattered !acting broke out with the dawn, anrl Mayor A.] .Cooper of Prichard, a su­burb of 50,000, instructed pol­ice to fire two warning c;hots at looters, then "shoot to kill." 
Police Maj. Winston Orr of the Mobile police said six people were arrested on looting charg­es. National Guardsmen were sent into the streets to curtail the thefts. 
Catherine Ha.wkins, a member of the Mississippi National Guard sat in the smashed window ofa musical instrument store in Pascagoula with a M-16 rifle in her lap. guarding aga­inst looters. 
path ::tcrnss the West Indies kil!if¥;; huo~ds, then scoured the F.Ji-1:'-roast and parts of Georgia and New England be­fore dying in the North Atlantic. 
Hurricane Frederic followed David out of the Gulf, striking at Louisiana and Alabama. Tropical Storm Gloria is now being watched closely. 
"Each year 10 to 15 full-fledg­ed hurricanes -tropical storms with winds averaging above 75 m.p.h.-grow out. o(,)e.s&erul tropical storms. Often they don't influence the Southeast 
U.S. as they have this year," Brehob said. ''It is a statistical probability though that some years they do. 
The hurricane that struck Florida and most recently Mob­ile are not unusual for that part of the country.'' 
"Surprisingly, wind is not th.e major cause of economic loss when a storm hits the main­land. Increased water levels caused by waves piled up by the storm, and low barometric pres­sures are the most destructive 
~§pects of 'hurricanes.'' Hurricanes begin in the South Atlantic as tropical depres­sions. About one hundred depressions a year develop wind speeds of 35 m.f.h. or more, and 10 to 15 o these increase their speed to 75 m.p.h., or 'hurricane force. Hurricanes need surface wa­ter temperatures of 79 degrees Farenheit to create their fast winds. These temperatures are found only in troptcal waters. Satellite photos of hurricanes show a pinwheel configuration of storm clouds turning count­erclockwise The pinwheel is tormed by the Earth's rotation. Brehob said that during the sixties, the .U.S. attempted to seed hurricaines so that they spent their force at sea, but the program was scrapped. when funds were cut and tt was 
determined  that seeding  may  
have  been  doing  more  harm  
than good.  

for chairman of Sophomore Parents Weekend are reminded 
Monda~. Sept. 17, 11-2pm-·in 
to turn in applications to the Student . Acttvities Office by 
Lemans lobby.'
next Wednesday. Future ND sophomore class events include an ice-cream 
Sale of any remaining books social in La Fortune Ballroom, "In order to make enou~h 
TUES., Sept.18, 11-2 pm. 
money to sponsor better affatrs for the class,'' Conboy stated. 

Pizza and other Good Things 
. CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD 
& ~~ CLEVELAND ACROSS. FROM THE UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 11-11 MONDAY-THURSDAY 11-1 AM FRIDAY &SATURDAY 12-11 SUNDAY TELEPHONE 277-5300 
Sunday Beer 
-----•----COUPON --------­
1 . $1.00 OFF 
• oN ANY LARGE SICILIAN PIZZA 
I 
II 
!'"'NE COUPON PER ORDER OFFER EXPIRES 9/30/79 I 
~--------------------~~--~J
COUPON
• ----------· 
·---------­
I LASAGNA DINNER FOR TWO I I 
lasagna I
'I
.I $5.99 Hot Garlic Bread I~I Two Salad Bars I
:1 Drinks not included 
,..,EXP=-='!'I~RE~S......
!1 Inside Dining Only l One coupon \per customer per· sale 
L. 
==~~ 
-~· 
-----------------~--,-.-.-­

The Observer 
Need Fixin's For A Party? 

Call DICK & CO 236-4203 236-4223 
Hambur,gers-Hot Do_gs-Pizza Hot Do_gs Cheese-Pies-Cakes-Cookies Corn Do_gs -Fish-Any size STEAKS 
JAMF..S BROUN MARGOT KIDDER 
~[STEIGER 
li•:· 
AM11WILLE .,. ' 
HORROR .··," ::, :; 
SHOWS . 2:15-4:50 74D-9:50 ~ 
SHOWS 2:00,4:00 6:00.8:00,10:00 
BETTER AND MORE ENTERTAINING. 
"MORE AMERICAN GRAFFITI'~ 
SHOWS 2:15-4:40-7:25-9:45 
sept. 20 8:00pm 
Tickets ate now on sole In South Bend exclusively at Rivet City Records, 50970 
U. S. 31 Notth-3 miles notth of campus fo1 futthet Information call 277-4242! 

·: 
., 
Friday, September 14, 1979-page 10 
Blaming nuclear tests 
IU prof exp,lains lo-w scores 
BLOOMINGTON, -~~d. (AP) ­Nuclear bomb tests in the late 1950's are to blame for stud­ent's declining college entrance test scores, an Indiana Univer­sity professor says. 
Ernest Sternglass recently submitted evidence to the Am­erican Psychological Associa­tion showing a connection bet­ween fallout from the 1950's desert bomb tests and an overall decline among Ameri­can high school students' Scho­lastic Aptitude Tests in the last decade. 
''In Utah, right next to Nev­ada, in babies born between '56 and '58, their test scores drop­ped 26 points in those two years. But in Ohio, they only dropped two points," he said. Sternglass, a physicist with a string of 12 patents to his credit, including the device used to send moon pictures 
back to Earth, has spent almost six months studying test scores of students born in the bomb test area. 
Radioactive chemicals from the tests were picked up in rain clouds and fell most heavily in Nevada's western neighbors and in the· Northeast, Stern~ glass said. • 
Two major radioactive pro­ducts of the tests -iodme 131 and strontium 90 -had a direct impact on the children born at that time, he said. 
"Iodine 131 goes directly to the thyroi:d and damages its function. It reduces the thyroid hormones and leads to hypothy­roidism, which then leads to severe forms of mental retard­ation if untreated,'' Sternglass sadi. 
He said strontium 90 is mista­ken for calcium by the body and taken into the bone marrow, where it can cause cancer. 
Sternglass said he believes much of the information about effects of the nuclear tests has been shrouded by the govern­ment. 
"I requested a study should be done on the people in Utah in 1962 and the study was done. But then the Atomic Energy Commission prevented it from being published," Stern glass said. 
He added, 11 A lot of people in nuclear physics are upset with what I'm doing. These men have been looking forward to seeing the fruits of their work being welcomed by mankind, when I'm forced to say that we have to call the whole thing off.'' 
• • • Juliano 
[continued from page 7] 
represent the entire Universi­ty," explained Juliano. 
"Recently, I granted permis­sion for a resume of the International Collection to be published in 101 countries and 10 four languages," he pointed out. 
"We keep in good standing with the US Olympic Commit­tee through our cooperation with them. l anticipate Notre Dame being officially designa­ted as an Olympic research center," he continued. 
"We loan films to the televi­sion networks for highlights. The article in Sports lll~tstrated about Knute Rockne was re­searched here. All this a­mounts to public relations,'' he said. 
Curator of the Collection is a full-time job. 'l have my hands 
I 
full now just to handle all that needs to be done. There are times I put up to 70 hours a week without any increase in pay. l am dedicated to my job through my love of sports,'' said Juliano. 
Juliano submitted his proposal of a combined International Research Center and Athletic Hall of Honor three years ago to the Administration. But so far 

not happen in my lifetime.
Dan Devine met a cheerful crowd at last night's pep rally 
may not ever happen. If not, I
[below] and even joined in the singing of the fight song. 
won't regret my efforts," Juli­
[Photo by Tim McKeogh] 
ano concluded. 
nothi-ng has happened. "It may It 
~---­
~-----------~ ­


The Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supplement 

Notre Datne hopes to lose the slo-w-starter syndron1e 

by Brian Beglane Sports Wn"ter 
It is no secret. For the last three years, the Dan Devine-coached Fighting Irish have not gotten off to the quickest of starts. 
Three years ago Notre Dame lost its home opener to Pittsburgh, 31-10: That was followed by six straight victories, a final record of 8-3, a 20-9 victory over Penn State in the Gator Bowl (Notre Dame's first and probably last appearance in that post-season game), and a final ranking of 12 in both the AP and UPI polls. 
In 1977 the Irish made it past Pittsburgh 19-9 in the season opener on the road and lost the next game 20-13 to Mississippi down in Jackson. What? A loss!?! Why, ''we're mad as hell and we're not going to take it anymore!'' 
The next game--at Purdue. Oops, it's the fourth quarter and the Irish are losing by 10. Huh? 
Well, enter .Joe Montana. See the ball fly through the air, see 17 J>Oints light up on the Irish side of the scoreboard, and see Notre Dame win 31-24. Ah, that's better! 
The rest? Well, the rest is history: a final season record of 10-1, a 38-10 trouncing of Texas in the Cotton Bowl, and Devine's first national champion­ship. 
Last season? The first three games were at home, but two of them turned up losses. The first was 3-0 shutout by Missouri, the second a 28-14 win by Michigan. But no Notre Dame team ever lost its first three games! 
The only other time that even had the chance to happen in the last 80 years was in 1963. It didn't happen then, and it certainly didn't last year. 
The Irish beat Purdue 10-6 and strung together eight straight victories before the "pass that really wasn't but was" beat them in the 27-25 Southern Calloss. • 
Follow that up with another great comeback and a 35-34 win over Houston in the Cotton Bowl, resulting in a finish of seventh in the AP and a tie for sixth in the UPI poll. 
Okay. What about this year? 
Compound the fact that Notre Dame opens up against three Top 10 teams by the fact the first two are on the road. Hmmm, on paper things do not look to rosy. 
''We entered practice knowing we 
were playing the nation's toughest 
schedule," said Devine. "Just look at 
the quality of our opponents' records. 
When you play the quality schedule we 
do, you know you have a heck of a task 
before you. " 
What about preparing for a schedule 
such as the one the Irish face? 
"There are a lot of variables," 
explains Devine, entering his fifth 
season at the helm of Notre Dame. 
''There is no way to get preparing for a 
tough schedule down to a science. I'll 
tell you this about our opening game, 
though. Our guys won't. choke 
because of a big stadium (~ichigan 
Stadium seats 101, 701), crowd noise or 
TV coverage. Our problem is going to 
be only with the Michigan players." 
The Wolverines opened their season 
last week with a 49-7 rout of North­
western, giving Bo Schembechler am­
ple opportunity to test out his offense. 
That should work to Michigan's advan­
tage.
"I have been in both positions," 
says Devine; . -_ -:.;1:'" have played an 
opening game against an ot'ponent that had one game under tts belt already, and I have had a team with a game's experience over an opponent already. Having that one game when you play an opponent in its first game 1s a tremendous advantage. You will always play better in you second 
game.
"Michigan used its game against Northwestern as a warmup for us, like we would use a scrimmage. Being able to test out your team against an opponent like Northwestern cuts in half the risk of injury as opposed to regular scrimmage." 
No one in attendance at Notre Dame stadium""Oct. 22, 19n, will ever forget the green jerseys the Irish wore as they came charging out onto the field against Southern Cal. It was a psychological ploy that lifted the team sky high and helped result in a 49-19 victory. 
Is Devine planning anything like that, or any psychological ploy at all, for tomorrow's opener? 
"I'm not a gimmick ~uy unless it's 
a darn good one," smiled the Irish coach. "I would tell you honestly if we had something in the works. We don't. 
"I'll tell you this, though. I have a good feeling about this team. Don't ask me to explain why, I just do. I may be proven wrong--I know we have had our share of problems--but I still feel good about this team. 
"We're going to scratch, fight and dig as hard as we can for one more point than our opponent. I would be the most ~urprised guy in the world if 
we got bfown · out of tli"at ·Stadium Not~; Dame coach Dan Devine [standing right] confers with defensive tomorrow. There is always that chance coordinator joe Yonto. Devine opens his fifth year as Irish coach every game, but I just don't see it tomorrow, while Yonto begins season number 16 as Notre Dame assistant. 
[continued_onp~~;_gf!-_-!!J::. ____ jp~by Doug Chz:is#ar!J _ = =--~ . _·.:.::..::. __ : _ _::_-_ 
Toman optimistic 
Iisch vital to Irish offensive success 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
The last time Rusty Lisch quarter­backed Notre Dame's football team, half of the present student body was still in high school. 

When -the fifth-year architecture senior kneels down in the huddle Saturday in Ann Arbor, he won't look up and see Ken MacAfee, Ernie Hughes orJerome Heavens. Instead, he'll be calling signals for Dean Masztak, Tim Huffman and John Sweeney. 
But Lisch's goal will be identical. The native of Belleville, Ill., will once again be entrusted with a veteran, talented Notre Dame offense. His mission is simple--score points, lots of them. ­
lt's no secret that Lisch was unable to bring out the best in Notre Dame's offense in ·1977, but as Irish head coach Dan Devine is ever quick to point out, Rusty Lisch didn't miss blocks or drop passes. . 
Which raises the obvious question of just how much importance a quarterback has, especially to a vet­eran offense such as Notre Dame's. 
Ron Toman, who coaches Notre Dame's quarterbacks and receivers, makes no bones about it--the quarter­back is the key to any offense. 
"Even though you may have a veteran offense, the quarterback is very, very important," says Toman. "He starts every play, and he finishes an awful lot of them, too." 
Toman admits that Lisch will be at 
c-:.· ---l{flj~l:x~+-~:-: ~--. --;c· -:t~~helm ()fa mw4·~c:nte~:~ense;-­
but he rejects the notion that Lisch can rely on his talented teammates to get the job done. 
"We have players who can make things happen," Toman says, "but he's got to be able to make things happen--he's got to have that threat when he has the ball." 
There is little doubt that Lisch is physically equipped to do the job. An accomplished all-around athlete, Lisch is a top-flight golfer and has gained notoriety in Notre Dame's campus-wide Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. 
"His physical attributes are cer­tainly excellent," confirms Toman. "He's a good runner, he's got a strong arm, and he has quick feet. Physic­ally, he's everything we're looking for in a quarterback.'' 
Backed by such a glowing reference, Lisch need only convince his skeptics that he harbors no ill after-effects of the 1977 season. Toman doesn't expect any problems in that regard. 
"A quarterback has to respect his teammates, and they must respect him, that works both ways," says Toman. "And Rusty certainly has that. The players are behind him one hundred l'ercent. 
"A bad experience should help a player. And I also think sitting out last :. "-:.: -~--)._continued on pag~:-11J,,-J 

.. . !It 1ld ofl to It!! Now ~ick it up... go! Almost got it. . ..Don't look back-­
r Ferguson • • . poetry tn motton 
r 
r 
lry l't·unk I .aGrolla 
r 
. Sport.\· ll'n"ter 
r ~ ·Th,· btlll lx on the Notre Dame .!II yo~rd /me ax quarter/Jack Rusty
,~ J.iwl' lead\ tb1· lrixh out ofthe huddlt•. lie\ ~ot Fer1!,uson and Sweene_y in tht• bac·kj1dd .•itb hrf11." \.\1 ... ~-\ l. .. llik,r! llikr! 
''I is,·h [.1/us tbt· handojfto Sweenr_y Rit·o· to num/1er 32... '' The first thin~ that you notice 
about VaRas FcrRuson arc his legs. Lon~. lean, musrular... sleek ebony jets. 
Powerful 
They might e-asily have bcen {'<1St in bromc or carved from ridt mahogany. But on thc foot hall field. where they do what prrhaps nonc do hcttcr, numhrr 32's legs arc solid gold. 
Ok. take tht' hall. ..g\'t a grip on it. ..Hold on tn it!! Think..•fake --read tht' hlnt·k. Now MOVE!!! 
"Fcrgu.wn·x at tf,c W·· the 35. Hr 's pid~ln}!. ut X/'t'c•d!'' 
On a warm April day. Notre Damr's football team gathcrs on Cartier Field to learn springt imr Irssons for an autumn game. It is a lonel~· sn·ne; · there arc no rr,lwds, tHl hands plo-~nng. no sponswmcrs lnoking on. In the springtimc. Srptcmher seems years awa\'. 
A srntlll wlw endrd his , nlllege football r:HCC'I on a nlld Dallas da\· just thrcc months earlier. stops hy to ~-arch his ex-tramm~Hes practirr. He re­mcmbets rlearh-how it is. 
··~prin~ prartire is !lmgh as hell.·' he s;n·s. "herause Y<lll. rc w,lrking hatd with nn game at the end ,)f the week to 1,,,,k f,,rward Ill The season seem~ S<l fat awa,· that ~~lllletimes it's ha1d Ill ji!et ',lursclf read,· to prartarc. · · 
Kight then. there's a bit \)f excite­ment ''n the faeld as running back \'agas Fcrgus,ln takes the snap. breaks '"'') tackles. out-runs three m1liT and strrab 75 vards for a 
"tllUdtdi>Wn. •· . The ~rcat ones arc always ready. 
Attah<l~. Sw,'<'nl'y. Move that hig lint'hacl.l'.r outta there. . .now kkl. it up...go! -'Whoa! Wait 1 minute...That was close! 
·'Frrguson breaks a ta~klr iJI mid­field. Hr 's still on his fat... · · 
Ninety degrees in the shade, and the only thing worse than the heat is the Northern Indiana humiditY. It drains the enthusiasm of most summer srudenrs ar Notre Dame. The tennis courts are deserted... 
DOc:"s anybody have an air condi­tioner?!! On the road thar borders campus, a shirtless Vagas Ferguson heads into the last few yards of his daily two-mile run. His muscles are straining, 
nJVcrcd with sweat. He wants to quit, but he ncvcr learned how ... lksidcs, September is only a month away. Later, after an hour in the weight room, he talks about the summer. 
''I'm here because it's important to me to get my degrl'l' in four years,'' he explains. "I set that goal for myself as a fH·shman and I'm gonna do it. Also, this is a good place to work out and get myself ready for thr sl'ason. 
''I'm gonna do that, roo." 
Almost got it. Look out for that safety. . .gnlta go wherever he ain't. ..people don't know how tough it is. 
"flt.'.'i down to the 30---the 25, aero.\·.\· the 20... Ferguson's making it look easy! .. 
It is Tuesday, four days before Notre Dame's season opener at Michigan, and the team begins practice, as usual, with warm-up calisthenics. Up front, leading the exercises, arc tri-captains Tim Foley, Dave Waymer and Vagas Ferguson. 
"Arc you ready?!!" yells Waymer. 
"Ready!" the players respond. 
"You don't sound ready!" 
"READY!" 
Ferguson really believes they are. 
"I don't see how we couldn't be," he says. "It's opening day, a big game against a good team... "And besides, we have a little score to settle with those guys." 
For Ferguson, possibly the best running back in college football (in spite of Sports Illustratc:d's cover boys), tomorrow will require no special 
ceremony or pre-game ritual. 
"Maybe some music," he 
grins. "With a beat of course. But mo_stly, I'II just take it easy and think about the game." 
Beyond the season, dare one men­tion his name in the same breath as John Heisman's trophy? 
"People can say what they want," laughs Ferguson. "But I don't listen. The only trophy I'm thinkin' about is another national championship trophy." 
I got it!•••I got it!••.Don't look back-ain't no way. 
"He's at the 10 --the 5--Vagas Ferguson cam'es t"t in for an 80-yard touchdown. Fantasti(:!'' 
Yeah!!! 
In ND backfield 
Sweeney aims to fill Buchanan 's shoes 

b-v Mlcbael Ortman · Sports U"n'tc"r 
"\\'c're going to miss him quitl' a bit: 
He pLI\Td a lilt last \·ear. He was a real w!lrk-horse and was ve-ry depend­able. Stlnwb,lth is glling to have to step in and replace him. but that's caster said than d!lne. · · 
And with thn~e -~ords Irish head Cllarh Dan Dn·ine set out to find a rcplarement fllr his fallen sophomore fullback. Pete Rurhanan. lost for the season with a badly broken ankle. 
\\'ould it be junior Joe Wozneak (6-0. 20'i), number twll ~n the pre-season depth chart but who 'had fallen off slighth· during camp' \\'tmld it be sophonwrc Ty Barber (6-0. 18)). more in the tailback mold but capable of pla\ ing fullback' Or. mavbc . .John Swecnry (6· 2. 220). eastly the b1ggest of the three, but only a freshman. 
OC\·inc C11uld afford to wastr little time in naming a replacement. With rhc opcnt"'' against Michigan little more than a week awa\· at that time. he opted w go with the bigger. stronger, less cxpcrie!Kcd Sweeney. 
lusr 18 ,·cars Hmng. Sweeney is now h1dcn with the pressure and responsib­ility that g•l with the position of Notrl' Dame's number one fullback. He mu~t keep blitzing linebackers away frmn quarterback Rusty Lisch. He must throw himself in front of a variety of defenders as he helps clear the way for All-American candidate \'agas Fergpson. On top of that, he must carrv the ball himself against some of the toughest defenses in the nation. 
So how does thl' Del'rfie ld, Ill., native handle all of this? It isn't easy. "When I f1rst got here," says 
Sweeney, "I was awed by some of the 
people I was playing with --Vagas 
Ferguson, Tim Foley and th1~ rest. But 
after a while, I settled down and 
rclizcd thar they wrrc just my team­
mates. great ballplayers, but still just 
nw teammates. 
,;When Perc (Buchanan) went down, I was in a daze," recalls Sweeney. "I felt rcall\' bad for Pete because I knew how read\' he was for the season. But I knew right then that I'd be playing. I didn't know if I would be starring bur f knew I'd be playing. playing a lot. .. 
Some strange things musr be going on inside Sweeney· s head as he heads into his first college gaml' as a starter. Bur he realizes that he has to take it all in stride. "It (the Michigan *arne) is just another football game.' claims Swcene\·. ''I have to think that way, because if I let myself get psyched out by all of this. I won't play ·~ell. l'vl' got to concentrate on my ass1gnments and pia~· as well as I can.'' 
Swecne\· is no stranger to thl' Notre Dame campus. His father, James,is a graduate and John himself visited Sourh Bend several times whc:-n he was younger. "I guess you could say that I'm just another one of those kids who 'alwavs wanted to come here,' and I'm really. happy I got the chance to.'' 
His high school performance cenain­]y warranted a long. hard look from the Irish scouts. S-vceney set a Deerfield High School record during his senior year, avl'raging 147.8 yards per game while earning all-conference, all­county, and all-state honors. .John was named to Coach and Athlete's ''Cum · Laude" team and also lenered in basketball as a gua~d and track as a 
John Sweeney 
spnnter. 
After his arrival at Notre Dame, 
Sweenev quickly became just another 
former high school star 'In a crop of 
freshmen which Devine calls the bl'st 
in aU his vears of coaching. 
Tn'via Question: When was the last 
time a freshman starred at fullback for 
Notre Dame on opening day? 
Answer: The Insh opened the 1975 
campaign ar Boston College with 
freshman fullback Jim Browner, now a 
defensivl' back with the Cincinnati .Bengals. 
Say, didn't Browner wear number 
33? That's Sweney's number. If this 
number 33 performs as well as that 
number 33, Notrl' Dame's fullback 
problem may be solved. 

:8\\S 
:8ll0 
ro Ignort· Arbeznik. Accmdin~ to Arbewik, lw didn'1 


have tlw stze the Irish wamed in a lineman, making his d(Tision some­what easier. 
__ ....~ year. With Blue Iin;:O';~ Yet despite lacking the poundage ofi]ohn Powers and Bubba Harris on the the giants from South Bend, Arbeznik 1 recoverr. road from knee surgery, makes out pretty wdl with what sizeIArbezmk has moved to the fore as he has.
: Schembechler's top lineman, a spot he A physical fitness butT, Arbeznik· has accepted conscientiously and with 
I determination. : Unlike many others, he is not ·preoccupied with the Wolverines back­
field situation, just with his own injury sidelined him. He bounced back position. to gain all-conference honors last year, 
· "You've got to make holes for the despite missing the final two regular people to run through. Any ~ood team seasoa games and the Rose Bowl with has a strong line," he satd. "The an ankle injury. seniors on this year's line who are The injury woes continued last playing--Doug Marsh, George Lilja spring when knee problems appeared. and Mike Leoni--need to have it He recovered sufficiently to assure together with the injuries we've had." himself a starting berth this year, yet 
Arbeznik broke mto the Michigan on the first offensive series ofthe year, starting lineup in 1977, but a knee fate almost struck again. 
Devine admits Wolves have early advantage 
by Paul Mullaney eighth in rush defense (112. 7 yards per Assistant Sports Editor game) and fourth in total defense 
(215.6 yards). When Notre Dame Coach Dan Leading the Wolves' 3-4 point-pre­
· Devine left Cartier Field after Monday vention squad is inside linebacker Ron 1 evening's practice session, he didn't Simpkins, one of the finest linebackers 
.have a whole lot to be excited about. in the country. Simpkins, along withI ''We had what I would call a really super-quick tackle Curtis Greer and 
• bad practice,' ' he admitted afterward. free safety Michael Harden, are . "I guess that tomorrow I'm going to reason enoughfor Devine to lose sleep / have to give general amne-sty before tonight. 
practice--give the coaches' version of 
''They (Michigan) feel that their 1 general absolution.'' defense is the best in the country,''i Nevertheless, the fifth-year Irish noted Devine. "And I feel that's how · coach couldn't hold back his smile. they're going to try and beat us. 
. ''But I've just got such . a good ''They're going to try and force us to 1 feeling about this ball club--even turn the ball over -to make errors. 
1 though we've had more of our share of They're in a lot better shape if their , problems," he said. "We're gonna offense doesn't have a long way to [ scratch, fight and dig, and we're going 
go.'' 
1 to find a way to score one more point They're also in a lot better shape,i than the other guy. 
Devine feels, having opened last week ' "I'd be the most surprised guy in at home against Northwestern. Even! the world if we'd get blown out on if it meant nothing more than justSaturday. But I don't see how it could going through the motions.
happen to these guys. They'd find a "I've been in both positions,"! way to stop it. Some Notre Dame Devine said. "My teams have played 1 teams may have played as hard, but in openers against schools that have , there will never be a Notre Dame team already played. And my teams have! that has played harder than these guys played before meeting another schoolwill have played. Our problem on m their opener. 
! Satur~ay_won'tbewit~,us, it'll be with 
i the M1ch1gan players. "It's a tremendous advantage to Devine is especially leery of the have a game under your belt. You're always gonna play better your second
1 Wolverines' defense ·· and justi­game than in your ftrst. '' . fiably so. Eight of 11 starters return 
from last year's Michigan defense, But even that doesn't phase Devine . which placed second nationally in --as long as his ftrst game isn't as bad ! fewest points allowed (8.0 per game), as Monday's practice. 
"After getting through 25 practices with full contact this fall, I ~et hurt on the third play of the season, ' mourned ~rbeznik. "But it's nothing really, JUSt a knee bruise. I'll play this weekend ... ! just want to play a whole year finally, and for a while I was pretty scared.'' 
Fear, however, will be the last emotion Arbeznik brings into Satur­day's game with Notre Dame, a clash runs a 4.8 40-yard dash in addition to being :1hle to bench press 435 pounds --no small feat when you weigh in the lll"ighborhood of 240. 
As far as 1his season got·s, Arbeznik foresees qui1e a future fi.1r the young dndoping Michigan offense. "We could lw grca1 evt·ntually. We're real divc.-rse, hul we still have a ways to go," he said. 
How far does the offense have to go to be in lim· with Arbeznik's forecast? You can rum· in on Saturday for some­pretty indi<:ative dues. 

Defensive left endjohn Hankerd will enjoy a homecoming ofsorts tomorrow. The junior lineman hails from jackson, Mich. · _ 


Time:  3:20 E  
R1dlo:  WSND, AM-&1. Notre Dame Campus, Paul Stauder and Frank LaGrotta  
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network, AI Wester and Pat Sheridan  
Television:  NSJV, Ch. 28 (ABC Regional), Keith Jackson and Frank Broyles  
Series:  Michigan 10, Notre Dame 2  

List Meeting: September 23, 1978--Michigan 28, Notre Dame 14 R1nklngs: Michigan 6th, Notre Dame 9th (Associated Press) 

D.::!l Devme  
I -I  Ht:JdCoach ;~ 10 014 years]  
!  
OFFENSE  
TE LT LG c RG RT SE OB HB FB FL p PK  Dean Masztak Rob Martinovich John Leon John Scully Bob Burger Tim Foley Dave Condenl Rusty Lisch Vagas Ferguson John Sweeney Pete Holohan Dick Boushka Chuck Male  6-4 6-5 6-2 6-4 6-2 6-5 6-1 6-4 6-1 6-2 6-4 6-4 5-11  220 260 240 245 214 265 175 210 194 220 215 190 180  So. Sr. Sr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Sr. Fr. Jr. Jr. Sr.  
DEFENSE  
I • I  LE John Hankerd LT Pat Kramer RT Kevin Griffith RE Joe Gramke LLB Mike Whittington MLB Bob Crable RLB Bobby Leopold LCB Dave Waymer RCB John Krlmm ss Steve Cichy  6-4 6-4 6-3 6-4 6-2 6-3 6-2 6-3 6-1 6-3  241 245 230 234 219 220 217 188 183 215  Jr. So. So. So. Sr. So. Sr. Sr. So. So.  

~ MICI!IGAN 
Eo Schembechler Head Coach 97-15-3 [lOyears] 
'\ 
OFFENSE  
TE ST LG  Doug Marsh Ed Muransky John Arbezlk  6-3 6-7 6-3  
c RG  George Lilja Kurt Becker  6-4 6-6  
OT  Mike Leoni  6-2  
WR  Alan Mitchell  6-1  
QB TB  B.J. Dickey Stan Edwards  5-11 6-0  
FB  Lawrence Reid  6-1  
WB p PK  Ralph Clayton Bryan Virgil Bryan Virgil  6-3 5-9  
DEFENSE  
OLB  Ben Needham  6-4  
T  Curtis Greer  6-5  
MG T  Mike Trgovac Dale Keitz  6-2 6-1  
OLB  Mel Owens  6-2  
ILB ILB WOLF  Ron Simpkins Andy Cannavino Stuart Harris  6-1 6-1 6-3  
WHB  Mike Jolly  6-3  
SHB  Mark Braman  ~1  

Jr. ~s Ml~hael ~ar:den 6-0 
IRISH EXTRA SUPPLEMENT STAFF 
233 280 240 247 243 246 185 188 203 213 210 185 
214 245 227 233 230 220 220 196 181 197 
183 
Sr. So. Sr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Jr. Jr. Sr. Sr. Sr. 
Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Sr. Sr. Jr. Jr. Sr. Sr. 
Sr 
"They're all big. They're going to be quick. They're all good athletes," Trgovac said during a break in preparations for Saturday's battle between No. 6 Michi~an and the ninth-ranked Fighting Insh. ''You just have to be ready to be son~ Saturday night, that's all." 
Trgovac, a 6-foot-2, 227-pound junior from Austintown, Ohio, played most of the games last year when the Wolverines defeated Notre Dame 28­14 in South Bend. 
''That's the hardest I was hit all year," he said. 
Trgovac was named Michigan's defensive player-of-the-week after the Wolverines crushed Northwestern 49-7 in their opener last week. Notre Dame has not played yet thi.s season. 
Trgovac recalleo, too, how difficult it was to bring down Notre Dame's great halfback, Vagas Ferguson. 
"Ferguson doesn't go down easily," he said. "That's how you can tell a good runner. 
"He's quick and gets to the line 
' fast. He won't go down with an arm tackle. Sometimes he'll fall for an extra two or three yards." 
Trgovac said, however, he thought Michigan's veteran defensive unit was fast enough to cope with Ferguson. 
"I'll have to get to the hole quicker and have great pursuit," he said. "If eight guys hit him every time, he won't get to the line as fast. But Ferguson is a great competitor." 
Trgovac said the teams are so evenly 
~ matched that the outcome would probably be determined by holding down mistakes. "I remember last year, we were messing up in the first half," he said. 

arms. around the bal carriers and they
Paul Mullaney --..Doug-cliris!iiin ­
Mark !'erry were bouncing· off each other. 
_lAyout and Design Photography
c::;: 
~ "il ,Ioo ··~-~··· 
"We were dropping passes, missing tackles and making mistakes. We were hitting too hard. We were trying so hard that we weren't wrapping our 

Mark Perry Paul Mullaney Beth Huffman Frank L.aGrotta Craig Chval Brian Beglane Sports Editor__ ~ Asst. Sports Editor Women's Sports Editor : Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer
s-3..m . -"9'2.~818 -----. ~.72T 7-4, .636 --·--8-3, .727 7-4, .636 
Nebraska Nebraska 
Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska Nebraska at Nebraska 
Utah State 
by18 by13 by 17 by14 Arizona State 
by 17 by25 
Florida State Arizona State Florida State Arizona State Florida State Florida State at Florida State 
by6 by3 by? by? by6 by6 Missouri 
Missouri Illinois Missouri Missouri Missouri Missouri at Illinois 
by 10 by2 by10 by 13 by4 by 16 
Iowa Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma 
at Oklahoma by21 by 20 by 18 by21 by32 by21 
Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue Purdue 
at UCLA by10 by 12 by20 by6 by 15 by10 
Utah Washington Washington Washington Washington Washington Washington by14
at Washington by 14 by 17 by 12 by3 by 11 
Rutgen 
-
Penn State at Penn State 
Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State 
by15
by14 by 14 by 14 by 17 by9 

Texas Tech at Texas Tech 
Texas Tech Texas TechTexas Tech ._ Texas Tech Texas Tech
New Mexico by10
by9 by10
by6 by5 by6 
-
Southern Cal at Oregon State 
Southern Cal Southern CalSouthern Cal Southern Cal Southern CalSouthern Cal 
by18 Michigan State Michigan State 
by25 by29
by 14 by19 by 21 
Michigan StateMichigan State Michigan State 
Michigan State at lchlgan State
Or';Ron 
by16 Clemson 
by 17 by26by17 by 10 
by 18 
Clemson Clemson 
Clemson Clemson at Cemson 
Clemson
Mag.land 
by12
by6 
by3 by2
by3 by? 
Notre DameNotre Dame
Michigan
Notre Dame 

--:-~~-~yz 
I 
.Obsef't(ef'-sponptaff-~:~-sta!Lat college gritLp_icks for_ secoml week I l 
i ' 
I 
I 


I , I I I 
'
. I 
I 
I 
"There's just something about Notre 
Dame that you always want to beat 
them." 
The game is a sellout and as many as 105,000 are expected to jam giant Michigan Stadium by the 3:20 p.m. EDT kickoff Saturday. The game also is the major regional offering of ABC-TV. 
----·-----·------·___...lr...__....ish 
[continued from page 11) 
happening to these guys. 
"We're going to give it all we've got, I promtse that. There will never be a team at Notre Dame that will play harder than this one. Some may play as hard, but none will play any harder.''­
----·-----··-Lisch 

[continued from page 11] 
year will help Rusty," Toman says. "H~'s more mature than to let past experience bug him--he's gamed something there. 
"In the last two weeks, Rusty's leadership qualities have really come to the surface. Of course, guys tend to bear down more as the beginning of the season gets closer, but Rusty has shown some things on the field that merit attention of his leadership." 
Still, the cloud of 1977 hangs over Rusty Lisch, and no amount of talk will make it go away. But after Saturday, Lisch won't have to concern himself with how abouts and what ifs. He'll be able to let his performance do the 
taikjall -~"~ 
I 

Michael Ortman Paul Stauder I Sports Writer WSND Sports Director 
7-4,.636 -6-5, .545 -) 
I
Nebraska Nebraska by6 by16 
Florida State Florida State by4 by7 
Missouri Missouri by13 by14 
Oklahoma Oklahoma by20 by20 
Purdue Purdue by10 byB 
Washington Washington by 17 by4 
Penn State Penn State by17 by22 
..' 
Texas Tech Texas Tech byB by 11 
Southern Cal Southern Cal by 19 by6 
I 
Michigan State Michigan State by20 by17 
Maryland Clemson I by1 by3 
[ Notre Dame Notre Dame 
_____ c._:~_:___-=_,dlyf3c.B?!!"c_ !''!':'-,...... "• ,'·"?--.-._ 
-------------~--..-----------------------------------------------~--------~--~.-----~--------~-.~-------------.--.c~:-~:.:~-, 
The Observer Friday, September 14, 1979-page 15 
r-----mrrForiHru-co,m 1
Caps reveal nurse's tradition I '* 't
In th• 100 C•ntttr off.la 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
Capping is a ceremony signai­ing a woman's entrance into the nursing field. This weekend, 44 Saint Mary's nursing students will pledge their skills and services to the medical prefess­ion. 
Traditionally, capping signi­fies the spiritual dimension of nursing. Although its origin is uncertain, the wearing of the caps is assumed to have be~un 
Democrats 
hold elections 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Young Democrats will hold elections for officers on Wednesday at 7:30 pm in Room 2d LaFortune. Any member who signed up on Activities Night and wishes to run for an office must contact Joe Slovinec of 389 Dillon Hall at 1872 by noon on Tuesday in order for his or her name to be placed in nomination. Plans for speakers a~d the spring. campaign will be dtscussed. 
in the early 19th century when women were expected to don customary head coverings. 
According to Dr. Mary E. Marucci, director of St. Mary's Nursing Department, the cap is losing much significance in the medical field. 
''Most nurses still wear the cap but there is a growing trend among nurses and hospital administrators to forego the wearing of the cap. However, the cap does not function soloey as a headpiece. It serves as a health precautionary meas-. ure," said Marucci. 
_ Another traditional aspect of the capping ceremony is the lighting of the lamps. This custom dates back to the Crim­ean War in which Florence Nightingale, in her efforts to aid wounded soldiers, carried a lit lamp so she could work through the night. Once capped, the nursing ~tudents a:e.appointed to var­tous hospitals 1n the area to familiarize themselves with the operations of a large medical institution. Their duties in­clude learning the hospital's communication system and id­entifying various medical proc­edures. Later in the .r.rogram, the student nurses will handle cer­tain patients, performing rout­ine duties such as taking temp-
Group resumes Mass 
The Friends of the MentallY. Retarded and of L' Arche is a 
Retarded and of L' Arche will group interested in improving 
resume their monthly Mass the life of the mentally retarded 
Sunday in Sacred Heart Church and intends to begin a L' Arche 
Crypt at 2 pm. After the Mass home in South Bend. For 
there will be a social hour at the further information call Vittoria 
Presbytery with refreshments. . Bosco at 288-5200 evenings, or 
All are invited. Marcia LeMay at 7091 after­
The Friends of the Mentally noons. 
Two a"W"ait ordination 
Michael D. Couhig and Will­iam J . Dohar will be ordained deacons this weekend. Couhig will be ordained on Sunday at 
11:30 in St. Joseph's Church and Dohar will be ordained in Little Flower Church at 5:30 on Saturday. Bishop William E. McManus of the Fort Wayne­South Bend diocese will preside at both ceremonies. 
Couhig, of Sedalia, Missouri began his studies with the Holy Cross fathers at Notre l')ame in 1974. He received his bach­elor's.degree from the Univer­sity in 1971 and his master's of divinity last month. 

While in the seminary, Couhig 
Michael D. Couhig 
organized and established the 
zindiana-Michigan Coalition of 
the National Catholic Coalition 
for Responsible Investment, 
and served on the staff of the 
undergraduate seminary forma­
tion program at Old College. 
Dohar 1s a graduate of Kent Stare· University and entered Moreau Seminary in 1974. He received two degrees from Notre Dame:a amster's of div­inity in 1978 and a master's degree in medieval history last August. Dohar served as a member of the staff at Old College last year. 
Both men will be ordained next June.

L_ 
eratures, blood pressures and f:1. • 10%offon P';llse rates.. Eventually th~y ·1 EVERYTHING I 
wdl be asstgned to family I clinics in the South Bend area, -I 
according to Marucci. I with ID & coupon I The ceremony, which includes l
L PARAPHA~ALIA .I
a Mass, is scheduled for tomor­row night at 8 p.m. in Church of
Loretto. A reception will be held on Sunday morning in Stapleton Lounge in LeMand Hall. 
''All persons are invited to attend,'' said Catherine Shaug­nessey, chairperson of the weekend's activities. 
Day care center holds dinner 
El Campito, a bi-lingual-bi­cultural day care center in South Bend, will hold a benefit plate dinner this Saturday in celebration of National His­panic Week. It will be held from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. at St. Kasmir's School, 1308 Dunham St. 
The dinner will include a burritto, taco, tamale or tos­tada, rice, beans and a drink. There will be provisions for take-out. Donations are $3.50, proceeds will benefit El Campito. 
.RECORDS, TAPES, 

MASS follow-ed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY at the 

Frtda_y 9114 9:30-10:30 Eric Barth and Wal~y Timperman 10:36-? MaRie with Mark Davis 
TheNAZZ 

Saiurda_y 9115 9-10 pm Dan Keusal 10-? Rich Prezioso 

Those int~rested in applying for the iob ~£ 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
STl'-DENT ACTIVIllES
or CALLI 7308 hy FRIDAY, Sept. 14th' 
The Observer Friday, September 14, 1979-page 16 
Anyone Interested in workin,g on the 
Leaders remain optimistic 
1980 DOME YEARBOOK 
/ 
Should attend an Or,ganizational-Meetin,g on Monday, Sept. 17 at 8: 30 pm in the DOME Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. 

Saturday September 15 Open 12 noon 

KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Present 
EVERYTHING 
You Always Wanted to Know ABout 
' 

SEX 
Fri, Sat, Sun Sept 14,15,16 K of C Hall 7,9 and 11 pm Admission $1 Members Free 
DETROIT (AP) -These are not the rosiest of days for this self-proclaimed Renaissance City. 
Its 12,000 teachers are walk­ing picket lines. 
The world's largest car­maker, General Motors Corp., headquartered here, faces a 
strike  deadline  at  midnight  
Friday.  
And  Chrysler  Corp.,  the  

city's largest employer, is threatened with economic dis­aster. 
But even with all that, leaders in this city of 1.2 million do not predict doom. 
"I've seen this community more down on its knees than it is now. We have problems, but I'm confident we can overcome them," says Walter E. Douglas, president of New Detroit Inc., a coalition of business and civic officials try­ing to rekindle Detroit. 
Detroit's worst times came after its 1967 riot-the nation's worst urban riot. For the next decade, as crime figures soar­ed, critics referred to Detroit ­once called ''Motor City'' -as "Murder City." 
Then, with Ford Motor Co. Chairman Henry Ford II provid­ing the impetus, the city began to rebuild. Ford's proposal for · the Renaissance Center -and his attractin~ more than $300 million in pnvate money to pay for it -became the centerpiece of the city's rebirth. The effort to bring back the ciry reached its culmination earlier thislear with its selection as site o the 1980 Republican Convention. 
So the leaders of Detroit's revitalization movement see the teachers' strike and the im­pending strike against GM as JUSt "temporary setbacks." 
''These things come around every three years and we take them in stride," said Tom Boyle, a spokesman for Ren­aissance Center, the gleaming glass and steel hotel-office complex. · ··~· he added,, ·~ Chrysler situation has the po­tential to be much more ser­ious.'' 
Detroit's concern over Chrysler's financial problems was supported in a U.S. De­partment of Transportation re­port released this week. The analysis preditted Chrysler's collapse would double area unemployment, increase racial tensions and reduce city tax collections by $34 million a year. 
The unemployment rate is certain to jump soon as a result 
Is There Life After College? 
•••a comedy of campus life 
Monday September 17th 
8:00 pm Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by the S.U. Academic Commission 
?f Chrysler's .Promise to close 
tts Dodge mam assembly plant 
within a year, idling 6,500 
workers. 
"Any shift or adjustment downward in local tax revenues because of strikes or Chrysler's closing would indeed under­mine the efforts" to renew the city, Sli1id New Detroit's Douglas. 
And Alice Lyte of the Seminuiois Youth Center said the teachers strike, a GM walkout and potential Chrysler downfall could slow progress even more in the city's neigh­borhoods. 
''Detroit is just tryin~ to see itself come alive. Th1s could tear up all the progress we've made," said Mrs. Lyre, whose organization has been /art of an effort to rebuild an main­tain a 44-square block neigh­borhood on the city's east side. 
Agreeing with downtown leaders, Mrs. Lyre said the undetermined future of Chrysler weighs most heavily ou the neighborhoods. 
''The re~son people bought homes in this neighborhood was because they were close enough to take public transpor­tation to work at Chrysler. If Chrysler goes under, I don't know what will happen. 
"It would have a rippling effect here, on barber shops, food stores. Every time there's one person laid off at Chrysler, it means four or five jobs elsewhere are interrupted,'' she said. 
David Littman, an economist for Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit, estimates the recession and auto industry slowdowns will cost the city from 7 percent to 9 percent of total payroll income in the first half of 1980. 
But tittman added that the economic recession should bottom out in Detroit shortly after midyear. 
And despite Detroit's and 
Chrysler's troubles, the ground­breakmg for two new 21-story towers at the RenCen is sched­uled for Sept. 21. The Rockefeller Development Corp. is copartner in the $38 million venture, and this has been touted by many Detroit officials as reason to be confident 'of the city's future growth. 
"We fought our way back from the 1975-76 depression, and I'm sure we won't collapse now. We will rise to it, but it won't be easy,'' Councilwoman Maryann Mahaffey said. ''I think Detroit's toughness and renewed commitment will carry on. " 
After all, strikes ·and reces­sions are not new to Detroit. The city is the prime benefic­iary of good times in the auto industry. It also, so the saying goes, "catches cold when GM sneezes." 
Cannpus record store plarts Monday opening 
by Tim Vercellotti 
Besides rhe bookstore, there are no places on campus to purchase albums. Come Mon­day, that will change. The Record Store will open at noon on September 17, in the Ticket Office, located in the Student Union. The Store will feature albums at a discount price. The administration had approved the store, but is not directly involved in irs operation. The Record Store is sponsored by the Service Commission. 
Curt Hench, service commiss­ioner, is the organizer of the store, and Mike Day is the manager. According to Hench, Michael D.ay was chosen be­cause of experience working with last year's Sllle. "We needed someone familiar with crowds, and who knew ho.w to handle pressure. Mike is also familiar with ticket sales, so instead of gettin~ anoth.er rl,l~n­ager, we gave h1m the Job. · 
The procedure for the ordering of records is this: the student looks up the particular album in one of the catalogues provided by the store, then orders and pays for the selection. The entire order is sent to the supplier (l'ather's and Sun's on Friday, and the requested albums will arrive by the follow­ing Wednesday or Thursday. 
To avoid the crowds encount­ered at last year's sale. the first four weeh> of operation will be divided into four categories. In the first week, only albums from Billboard's Top 100 can be ordered. Albums that have been in production since Jan­uary, 197B, will be offered beginnin~ the second week. (These wdl be out of Schwann Catalogue ) The third week will feature all albums from catal­ogues I and 2, which will mean the avaibility of albums in production since 1977. A cut-out catalogue will be put into use by the fourth week .This catalogue will feature albums no longer in production. Some orders from this particular cata­logue may not be filled because of a limited supply. 
When ordenng albums, a student fills out a form includ­ing name, address, I.D. num­ber, catalogue number of the album being ordered, and the title, the artist and the price. 
Orders should be paid in ad­
vance. Upon presentation ot 
the receipt, students will re­
ceive albums. 
"Students will be required to rake every album ordered,'' Service Commissioner Hench stressed. "They should be careful in copying down the catalogue number, because due to the sheer amount oforders, it would be impossible to check each one.'' 
If there are any back-ordered albums, the student will receive a refund. Any defective albums should be returned with the sales receipt, within ten days after the arrival of the order. 
The first attempt at a record sale took place last year. It was a great success in terms of sales, however the size of the crowds did pose a problem. Crowd problems should be alleviated this year because of the four week breakdown, and the fact that the store will be in continuous operation, noon to 4 p.m., Mondaydirough Friday. 
~-----~ --~---~~----~--­
The Observer 

i 
Friday, September 14, 1979 ~page 17 
r.----------------1 j I 
1 Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 1 
•
I Georgetown Shopping Center •
I 
•
I (near Cira's) I 
I BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIAL I 
I ~ I I I $2.00 OFF I
ND-ci
I any large pizza ·i I I (Not valid for deliveries) c~veiand Rd. ....., 1 I ~~ I 
1 $1.00 OFF ~] 1 
I any small pizza Jl ~ I 
lwide Screen TV-Luncheon Speci~ls Daily~ ---..coupon Expires 9/30/791____ 
University 
installs time card 
system 
by Chris Carrigan 
This year, Notre Dame offi­cials have decided not to auto~ matically deduct the amount a student earns in the student employment program from the tuition. Instead, there will be a ''time-card'' system in which the student's hours are careful­ly recorded. 
The switch from credit jobs to the payroll basis affects a lar~e percentage of those students m the work program. Student employees ofsuch places as the dinmg halls, the Huddle, the ACC, and the Morris Inn, however, were not affected since they were previously on the payroll basis. 
The apparent reason for the move 1s that, in the past, students were being paid for hours when they did not work, according to Margaret Almeida of the Student Employment office. For example, a student would work 12 hours per week for a period of 14 weeks. Quite often, the student would be unable or simply did not work the assigned number of hours. Because of the automatic de­duction, however, the student would more than likely be· accredited for his quota. It was questionable whether the vari­ous departments were keeping their employees' hours in check, ~nd this prompted the converswn to the ume-card system. 
In the time-card system of payment, both the Supervisor and the student employee are required to sign a card at the beginning of each week, and the hours are thus carefully regarded by each supervisor. At the end of each week, the student is paid directly for the amount of time worked. 


... this card will let you call long distance from your room faster and at less cost than any-other way. 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long distance call can be a hassle. 
You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your 
free STUDENT BILLING CARD from Indiana 
BeLl • tudent Billing Card lets yoLz make long distance calls from the privacy of your room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a'lot easier and more economical than any other way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and you keep the change. To get your STUDENT BILLING CARD just call 237-8182. 
@Indiana Bell 
t 


Features 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
Nicodetnus Asked the Eas.'Y Questions 
1lliV. ROBERT GRIFFIN 
I 
It was past midnight, and the young there something personal in the way though those wings were not the least my attention, there IS nothing really man had been sitting on my couch for you care for me? Nicodemus had bit like a flower's. The child, personal. Eventually, with God's a long time, listening and asking questions that he asked of Jesus, laughing, inherited the earth full of help, I touch the place where the questions about problems that both­when he sat on His couch at the color and motion of gentle nerve ends quiver; I find the spot ered him. Finally, as he was leaving, midnight; but the answers, though things. But one day, he reached out where the pain shows through. Then he said: "It may seem strange to ask enigmatic, were easy. The tough to touch a flower, and its petals my experience is like that of Thomas, this, after the time you have given questions are asked when caring is turned brown under his fingertips. when he put his finger into the side of me, bur do you really care?'' looked at; not from the viewpoint of He pulled at the wings of a butterfly; Christ; a personal bond is established "Do I care?" I rq>eated, trying to God's passion, but from the perspec­soon the butterfly was simply dust rn because I know how someone has grasp the sense of h1~ question. "Do tive of the minister's sincerity. the palm of his hand. He held a bird suffered. Sometimes it's not the hurt I care?" Where does caring come from? It so ught that its tail feathers broke, that people show us that induces our 
"That's right," he said. "Do you comes, I suppose, from the heart; but and the bird died later having supper tears. Sometimes it takes the hidden care? If you do, it would be nice to it is a gift, like faith, and I never with the cat. wounds--the wounds that a man hear you say so. It would be nice to earned it. I have a gnawing worm of Out of grief and early tears, a kind hides even from himself--that con­know char you care about me, and conscience that defends it when I'm of caring comes, at an age when the verts us to caring. about the things that worry me." lazy or selfish, not bothering to care, child realizes he is responsible for the 
re­which is most of the time, so that my loss of beauty. None of the caring Is caring, then, a personal 
''The better I get to know you,'' I sponse, a special cherishing of the
conscience always has fresh tooth­commitments of a lifetime become 
said, "the more I'll care. But just person cared for?
marks on ic. possi~le, I suppose, until a child has 
from talking with you now, I care a Sometimes not, I suppose, but I've
The chief credentials of caring are expenenced the lucal, domestic great deal ·•hour you." patience and availability. I could deaths and tragedies that love con­never found a person whom I needed 
to love whom I couldn't love, if I amHe smiled. and I smiled, and I gave have said to the young man, if he had scious of loss would have wished to patient enough. 
him a hug. I meant it when I said I asked for the credentials of my prevent. cared ahout him, and the hug was caring: "I have alternatives to I am not young enough to remem-­If a young man asks you at absolutely, sincere. However, I talking to you, you know. I could be ber if caring has a birthday I'm .notold midnight whether you really care wanted no more questions about hiding under the bed." enough to know if caring will ever about him, you can hardly say no, not caring. A ministry without caring is How old is caring, and how long die. Faith teaches that there is an because the answer would hurt him, like a pizza without a cruse. What will it last? Once, I think, a child eternal heartbeat in me that belongs but because it would hurt you. On would I have said if he had gotten reached out to touch a flower, and he to God; it keeps me from getting your shabbiest. days as a priest, tough with his questions; if he had sang to the flower because he loved weary when I am needed to care. Yet caring may be the only kindness you asked, for example, why do you care? its beauty. Then he met a butterfly, even for the professional Christian, can offer the visitors who use your 
Where does your caring come from? and he thought it was a flower that caring can get dull, like any other couch. What are its credentials? How old is had the power to flutter off from the duty. Sometimes the best I can do is Ofall the questions the young man it? Will it last forever? Do you feel in garden. A bird came, and its wings give a professional attention, wanting may ask you, it's only chat final this caring way about everyone, or is were swifter than a butterfly's, to care de~ply, yet kr:owing that in all answer you have to get right. 

THIS WEEKEND··· 
Whats All This , Then.? 
Mark Ferron 
CINEMA -On Campus Muppet Movie at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30. Town and Country I. Harold and Maude on Sept. 14 at 7, 
Kermit, Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy 9, 11. Engineering Auditorium. A Gonzo and all the others travel across young man, fixated on death and country to Hollywood to become big funerals, has an affair with an SO-year­stars. Along che way, they are old woman. Black comedy for those pursued by a fried frog-leg entre­that can stand it. Stars Bud Cort and preneur who wants Kermit to do his Ruth Gordon. 1971. commercials. 
Ti·e Concord--Airport '79 at 1,3, 5,
The Sweet Smell of Success at 7:30 
on Sept 20. Washington HalL A 7:15, 9:30. Town and Country I. George Kennedy heads a new cast
crooked press-agent helps a power-mad throush the same old air tragedy. AtNew York columnist break up his least It allows those who have neversister's marriage. Stars Tony Curtis flown on the Concord a chance to seeand Burt Lancaster. 1957. 
its interior. High Anxiety at 7, 8:45, 10:30. On 
Dracula at 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45,Sept. 14 & 15. Carrol Hall, SMC. M~l cv~o. Town and Country. Frank 
Brooks produces, directs and stru:s m Langella is a dashing count who is this outstanding spoof of Alfred Hitch­
opposed by a Dutch doctor (Laurencecock films. Brooks plays the director Olivier). Directed by John Badham of the Institute for the Very, Very who also did "Saturday Nighr Fever." 
Nervous where Harvey Korman and Cloris Leachman are the head doctor 
'North Dallas Forty at 7:15, 9:30.
and nurse respectively. Brooks tries to River Park. Nick Nolte and Mac Davis solve a murder mystery while curing star in this biting commentary onhis fear of heights. Also features today's professional football.
Madeline Kahn. 1978. 1aws at 1:45, 4:30, 7:25, 9:45. 
The Cn'me of M. Lang!? at 7:30 on 
University Park I. A man-eating shark Sept. 17. Wao::hington Hall. French causes havoc off the Long Island coast. 
work, filmed immediately ·after the Genuinely suspenseful and fright­Depression, traces the growth of a ening despite the fact ~hat once it does naive and helpless little man who takes appc:ar, the monster Is pretty uncon­over as head of a publishing company vmcmg.
when the president skips town with 
The Amityville Horrorat 2:15, 4:50,
company funds. 1964. 
7:40, 9:50. University Park II. A young couple (Mar~ot Kidder and
CINEMA -Off Campus 
James Brolin) move Into a new house and find that it's inhabited with demons.
Meatballs at 7:30, 9:30. Boiler House Flix. Bill Murray unsuccessfully tries More Amencan Graffittz.. at 1, 3:05, to emulate his co-worker John Belushi, 5:10, 7:25, 9:50. Umvers1ty Park III. 
only this time it takes place in a The same cast (save Richard Dreyfuss
Hot Stuffat 7:30, 9:30. Forum III. Breaking Away at 7:15,9:40. Forum 
summer camp. Disappointing. and his girl, Suzanne Somers) move on
Dom De Luise, Suzanne Pleshette and II. Delightful film about bicycle racing 
into the 1960's with less-than-funnyJerry Reed star in this film about and life.
Star.Wars at 7 & 9:30. Boiler House' results. A terribly_ unnecessary sequel 
funny cops and funny robbers and the
Flix. Luke, Chewbacca, Artoo-Deetoo Beyond ihe Poseidon Adventure to American Graffiti. 
funny stolen merchandise that the two at 
and all the rest of the crew return in 7, 9:30. Forum I. 
are fighting over.
this soon to be recopied film [continued page) 
FEATURES 
Friday, September 14, 1979-page 19 
FILM FOR THO-UGHT 
What the Eye ofa Camera Sees ... 
MARY MONNAT·-= 
The film industry is no longer the. dream factory it used to be. For more and more reality is replacing fantasy upon the silver screen. Today's realities are fantastic in themselves: racial tension, economic exploitation and political repression abound in our society. Many films today vividly depict such societal decay and serve as pOignant comments on our modern world. They are films for thought and they are films worth seeing. 
The Notre Dame Student Govern­ment and the Center for Experiential Learning are sponsoring a Social Concerns Film Series in collaboration with the World Hunger Coalition and CILA. The series begins Sunday, September 16th, and ends Friday, September 21st. Films will be shown at various times in Washington Hall, and the Engineering and Library Auditoriums. All showings will be free of charge. 
This year's film series is a combina­
tion and continuation of last year's 
Social Concerns Film Series and the 
Third World Film Festival. The seven 
films in this fall's series have been 
divided into two main categories: U.S. 
Social Concerns (subdivided into the 
issues of women, labor, and race) and 
Global Awareness. 
The purpose of the film series is to 
bring pertinent social issues more 
clearly into focus at the University. 
The high-quality films selected forth­
rightly present problems such as 
poverty, discrimination, and political 
repression: problems that are not 
immediately apparent to most stud­
ents. 
The series provides an excellent 
opportunity for reflection and debate 
on these pressing Issues and are 
intended to increase social awareness 
throughout the entire community. The 
south end of the LaFortune lobby has' 
been designated as a meetins place for 
informal discussion imm~diately fol­
lowing all films. 
[continued from previous pagej 
''Bg~1""6-A\tJA'/1 IS A "t::ELIGi.tfFl.)L FILM AB:?UT B1c{c.L.E. I<Ac.t r-.16-4 Llf'E. . 1-'lfA/Jt.J!-IIL£ ~!-14a:i..D f f.-1Alt:E" CELEBRATES LIFE f5Y 1/.JA'f 
~ A co~ 10 t>E:A.\1-t Wi-ll LE. ~1..!6-'1l-lAI DEATI-I I'S A 1-\A!(.D ~~~TO L\\/E. \tJITI-1. 11"' IS A DE.L\6-\.tffi.JL FIL . .M IN ITS OWN !2.~1. 
~tvlfA~S:: 46vJ8JE£, IS IC:'AII-\£12 'PI 'SAPfbi~IJG-l 41P ··~~~ ANXIE.T'I" IS 
YIIC\UAI..L)' PE\bi\?OF ~ ICEf:E~E.~ ... 

TELEVISION 
PBS [Ch. 34] Masterpiece Theatre: Kean ai 9:00 
pm, Friday, Sept. 14. Part 1 of 2. Anthony Ho_pkins stars in ] ean-Paul Sartre's farctcal comedy about the 19th 
Icentury actor, Edmund Kean. 
Norma Rae 
This 1978 film about a working-class woman in the South features a strong performance by Sally Field in the title role: ~orma Rae, an outspoken te~tile-mill worker, contends with the mtll _bosses as she and others fi~ht for a umon and better working conditions. Many facets of Southern culture are ~xp.i<:~red: , the fa,mily is shown as an mdividual s defense against adversity and .f!lctors such as racism, poverty: tradmon, and institutionalized religion are depicted as tools of the powerful u~ed to maintain the status quo. ' Directed by Martin Ritt, color. 
Cont~ollz~g Interest: The World ofthe Multznatzonal Corporation 
Since its production in 1978 this California newsreel has been ~idely used--and widely acclaimed--by educa­tors and trade unionists alike. In a comprehensive and critical way, Con­trolling Interest shows 'connections between the power of the multina­tional corporation and issues such as 
U.S. foreign policy, economic devel­opment, human rights violations, and world hunger. Many directors of education consider this film to be one of the most effective documentaries ever released. Color. 
The Politics ofTorture 
This production of ABC News Closeup examines the repression and torture tactics of three U.S. allies: Iran, the Philippines, and Chile. The film then asks some pointed questions about Jimmy Carter's supposed advocacy of human rights, the support these nations receive from our government and major financial institutions, and our moral "6bligation with regard to the practices of these countries. Inter­views are conducted with torture victims, as well as various U.S. and foreign government leaders. Clarity 
--·~·· 
National Hispanic Week in South Bend 
National Hispanic Week in South Be!'ld begins tomorrow with a presen­tatiOn of Latin Music at the Indiana Dune National Lakeshore at 6:30 p.m. 
The week long celebration of Hispanic culture and concerns in the South Bend area is sponsored by various organizations such as La Casa de Amistad, the LULAC Organization of South Bend, El Campito Day Care Services, La Causa Food Cooper­ative, the Hispanic Club, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, the South Bend Com­minity School Corporation and the National Hispanic Week Committee. 
Events this weekend include a Spanish Mass on Sunday at Saint Stephen's parish at 1102 W. Thomas Street. The time is 9 a.m. and the homilist will be Bishop William McManus of the Fort Wayne/South Bend Diocese. 
There will also be a dance on 
Saturday night from 9 p.m. to 1 p.m. 
at the National Guard Armory at 1901 
S. Kemble. 
Further details of the Festival will appear in the Observer. 
'Faces of Communism "Yugo­slavia" at 8:00 pm on Sat. Sept. 15. This examination of the most liberal state under communist rule shows a country neither nationalized nor state· controlled. 
~ 
-
and thoroughness ... chilling tmpact. 
Color, 1978. 
Blue Collar 
Starring Richard Pryor, Harvey Keitel, and .Yaphet Kotto, the film explores the hves of three Detroit auto workers in r_ealistic and sometimes jarring detatl. The three--depicted as liars crooks, bigots, and murderers--frustr~t­ed by assembly-line conditions and financial troubles, attempt to rob their union's safe, but instead of money they turn up incriminating evidence on the local United Auto Workers' lead-. ers. There are two main themes: the changed status of the American work­e~ from t~e poverty of poverty to the higher.-paid poverty of inflicted con­sumen~m, the changed relation with th.e umon and the changed union. Directed by Paul Schrader 1978, color. 
The Battle ofAlgiers 
TheBattle ofAlgiersis a documentary­liKe reconstruction of the 1954-57 rebellion against the French. It f<;>cuses o~ the leaders of the opposing 1 sides while showing the riots and bombings which were part of the uprising. Although the director clearly stdes with the rebels, the film's unflinching depiction of terrorism and 
violence is a comment on the terrible 
force that history exercises over men. 
1966, black and white, (French with 
English subtitles). 
A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich 
Hero explores the urban drug problem through the experiences of Benjie, a 13-Y,e~r boy who is drawn into heroin addiction, unable to cope with his family situation and the pressures of ghetto· life. Cicely Tyson Paul W,infield, and Larry B.Scott 'star. J.\.cc~~v~d Jeerse Ja&son, Hero'' is a film that all Americans must see. The film is a giant step forward that will be recognized by all people because it is a film that relates to th~ human condition." 1978, color, di­rected by Ralph Nelson. 
The Given Word 
This Brazilian film received ''Best Picture" Award from both the Cannes and San Francisco Festivals. It tells the simple story of a Christ-like man who stubbornly defie:> a hierarchical and image-co~scious dergr. ''Nobility and compasswn, confronting us with the deeper issues of freedom and the spirit, while avoiding preachy stereo­types of charactor and plot."·-The Christian Advocate. 1962 black and white, (Portuguese with E~glish sub­titles) directed by Anselmo Duarte. 
Schedule: (EA-Engineering Auditor­ium, LA-Library Auditonum WH­W ashington Hall) 
Norma Rae: Sun. Sept. 16,--3:00, 6:00, 8:30p.m. EA Mon. Sept. 17,--6:00, 8:3'0, ll:OOp.m. EA 
Controlling Interest: The World ofthe Multinational Corporation: Sun. Sept. 16,--3:00, 6:00, 8:00p.m. WH 
The Politics of Torture: Sun. Sept. 16,--4:00, 7:00, 9:00p.m. WH 
Blue Collar: Tues. Sept. 18,--6:00, 8:30, ll:OOp.m. EA · Wed. Sept. 19,--6:00, 8:30, ll:OOp.m. EA 
The Battle of Algiers: Tues. Sept. 18,--6:00, 8:30, ll:OOp.m. WH Wed. Sept. 19,--6:00, 8:30, ll:OOp.m. WH 
A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich: 
Thur. Sept. 20,--6:00, 8:30, 11:00 EA Fri. Sept. 21,--6:00, 8:30, 11:00 EA · 
The Given Word: Thur. Sept. 20,-­3:30, 6:00p.m. (No 8:30) LA Fri. Sept. 21,--3:30, 6:00, 8:30p.m. LA 
· Life After College 
It's _not easy getting rejected from 23 diiferent universities. I got a rejection letter from Harvard. I wrote 
· t~em a letter back saying: "Dear Strs: Due to the great number of rejections which I have been receiving, I am sorry to inform you that I cannot accept your rejection. Please send me the matnculation forms and housing information." 
So says the hero in Is There Lzfe After College?, a blend of stand-up comedy and one-man theatre. Each of the play's four acts corresponds to a year in school. As an under­graduate, the hero is torn between his pre-law studies and his yearning to be a stand-up comedian. Is There Lzfe? follows him from his senidr year in high school as, he interview for admission to college, through · ~enior. year in college and place nt mtervtews. 
We meet one ofhis school b odies AI, who feeds his pet amoeba·Purin~ Amoeba Chow. The 25 lb. ~ag lasts forever. We meet his roommates of whom he says, ''This school spends millions of dollars on computers that c<;>~pare two people's likes and dtshkes and habtts, and they find that one person perfectly suited to live with you -and then give you someone else." There is i:he "jock" who wears a letter on his sweater to remind him what team he plays for, 
· the /pre-med whose only four vocabulary words are, ''what did youJ get?". There is also the "freak" who 
............ 
....... '­
majors in transcendental ll).editation 
and the baton twirling "rah-rahs" 
invariably named Kathy Sue and 
Bobbie ] o who marry boys named 
Bob or Bill and raise little cheer­
leaders. We share the student's 
anxiety as his parents come for their 
ftrst visit, and share his fatigue as he 
discovers he has 430 pages left to 
read for his morning_exam. 
But it's not all laughs. He returns 
to school in the fall and we learn that 
he's now the "man of the family" 
and takes his pre-law studies more 
seriously. Somehow, he mana~es to 
keef his comedic aspirations alive as 
wei . In fact, Act III ofIs There Life is 
comprised totally of his stand-up 
comedy act, as he performs at a local 
college. 
Finally, as he prepares to leave 
school and enter the "real" world, he looks back on what he has learned during the past four years: The Great Revelation of /freshman year is that. there is no God. The Great Revelation of:sophomore year is that there is : no ] ustice. The Great Revelation of.'junior year is that there ' is no Great Literature. The Great Revelation of'senior year is that there 
are no jobs. 
. A product of New York Comedy 1Writer Andy Goodman (best known as head writer for the comedy grol;lp "Organized Crime"), Is There Life
I
After College? will be presented at 
8:00 pm on MondayISeptember 17 in Library Auditorium free of charge . 
"'~-'II:_ •••: .... II\ .. --~ -,-\.~4-., ·r,.-..-• .;1',~---... 1.1.~ -: ...;,.• ~~--:-~­
J 
j 
~ 
The Observer 

WORKSHOP FOR LECTORS for au those wqo·-plan to serve 
Cctii)P_US at hall liturgies and in Sacred miniStry Heart Church Date: Sunday, Sept. 16 Place: Haves­T1me: 7:00 pm -~:30 pm Healy Aud. 
DiI'L'(/ J)itiiJ/o!ld !nz porters 
FOX'S 
./elL'elers ,~incr 1917 
-"-­
Speci.d 1)o/o Discount on ALL :\lerchandise to I\otre Dame and Saint l\lary's Students. 
T~)\\fl and C;•urltn·, Concord ami L'ni\L'r'-oit\· Park \lall Open Daih 10-9 
Friday, September 14, 1979 ~page 20 
As salaries increase 
Firms battle for talent 
NEW YORK (AP) -A battle 
for talented managers is lead­
ing to sharply higher salaries in 
the executive suite, with iQ: 
comes of some key people 
jumping 50 percent and even 60 
percent at a time. 
"Corporate America is on the biggest binge of hoarding and pirating key executives since the early 1960's" said Eugene ) ennings, an authority on cor­porate affairs who has been tracking the situation. 
The surge of increases isn't unique in U.S. industrial his­tory, but it is pushing incomes to previouslyunheard-of levels, and seems destined to make million-dollar incomes far more common. 
"We'll see more million dollar salaries in the next five years than we did in the previous ten," said Jennings. "The clear winners are top level xecutives with good records as 
general managers.'' 
The condition leading to the higher salaries results from an economy in which some old-line companies are stagnated while newer concerns are forging ahead. Keeding talent, the latter raid the former. 
As an inducement, the expan­sion companies once offered 40 percent or a bit more to obtain from a stagnant company a key executive, ILISually a the man­ager of a corporate division, or even the corporation itself. 
Now, with professional search firms adding to the pressure, the pot has been increased to as much as 60 percent of existing salaries. "Good general man­agers are scarce,'' said Jennings. 
Jennings, .a professor of man­agement at Michigan State, author of many books on corp­orations, and confidential ad­visor to top corporate officials, 
rs us1cp, YESTERDAY'S PRICES! 

The HAMMES otre Dame Bookstor~-~ 

has spent years trar~ing execu­
tive routes to success. 
Intensifying the present bat­
tle, he believes, is the tenacity 
with which the stagnant corpor­
ations, the ones so often raided, 
are fighting to retain their best 
employees. 
Once, said Jennings, they 
would fight to the extent of 
offering their. key people up to 
20 percent to 25 percent to turn 
down the raider's offer. Now, 
he said, many companies will 
go as high as 40 to 50. 
Recognizing that their com­
panies cannot move ahead with­
out talented executives, many 
companies have developed con­
tingency packages so alluring 
they make it almost impossible 
for an executive to leave. 
When the executive is likely to be tempted, the packa~e is presented. Typically, tt in­cludes a long-term commitment to the executive and benefits designed to win the same commitment from him. 
"We are in the retaining end of a cycle," said Jennings. He spotted the beginnings of the cycle 2 or 2lf2 years ago. At first the stagnant companies were caught off guard. Now they are fighting hard, he said. 
Such sequences, he observes, develop whenever an economy is mixed, in the sense that some companies are in the forefront of expansion while others lag behind. 
''Whenever you have this situation you have talent on the move, crossing ·organizational and job boundaries," he said. 
• • • Devine 
[continued from page 24) 
on some younger players to perform well on offense. 
B.J. Dickey, a 5-11, 188-pound jumor, opened t~e season as Michigan's starttng quarter­back and was the number-two rush~r in the game with 85 
yards on 9 carries. Dickey also completed six of eight passes in the game. Senior John Wang­ler also saw action against Northwestern, and completed five of six. Michigan coach Bo 
Schembechler has said that both could play at any time. Stan Edwards, .who ran for 99 yards last week, and Lawrence Reid are also new starters to the Michigan backfield this year. 
Ralph Clayton and Doug Marsh, who combined for three touchdowns against ND last year, return to head the receiv­tng corps. 
Semor linebackets Bobby Leo­pold and Mike Whittington and defensive back Dave Waymer are being called 'upon to lead a very young Notre Dame de­
fense, which include three sophomores on the front line. Scott Zettek and Mark Czaja, returning from injuries last season, have practiced with the 
second team all week and could see action. Steve Cichy, be­lieved to be lost for the season a few weeks ago because of a back problem, will start at strong safety. 
! 

-
The Observer Friday, September 14, 1979 -page 21 
-
ACROSS 34 Wise-owl 58 Unwilling 24 Turner of 1 Lamb girl 35 -Pompilius listener films 5 Beach 36 With 38 A, to the sea 25 lroqouis
The Daily Crossword 
craft character tale trophy 


9 Pitch in the sea 61 Shield 26 Revere symbol tale .bearing 27 Pere's 
13 Stew 38 See 36 A 62 Removes, in frere 14 Moderates 40 Hang laxly printing · 29 Harmony 15 Craze 41 Shoshoneans 63 Unit cost 30 Altercation 
16 Author of 43 Occupying 64 Cat 31 Correct 
a sea tale 44 Newspaper 65 Gaelic 32 NCO, in­19 Three: lt. employee language formally 20 Military 46 Fair-haired 66 "What's­34 Bill of-
ploy 47 News item for me?" 37 Without 21 Chasm 48 German feeling 22 Ninny article DOWN 39 Official 23 Eskimo 49 Ranch Largest decision 
abode: var. animal part 42 Involves 25 Jostles 53 County in 2 Having 45 Tender 28 Deletions Scotland wings 46 Navigation 33 A.-Doyle 55 -relief 3 Frost hazards 
4 Second 49 Traffic 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: person sign 5 Intertwine 50 By way of, 6 Cigars for short 7 Wires 51 Slippery 8 Comp. pt. ones 9 Baby bed 52 Former 
1.1:.11....,~~~~+++~-""'~ · 10 Woman lambs 11 Breakfast 54 Arrow food poison 
12 Compensa­55 Head: sl. tions 56 Italian 14 Spiritual wine city 
joy 57 Printing 17 Ancient .term 9/14/79 Palestinian 59 Before JFK
© 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved ~~~::;;~~:;;::~~~~ 18 Scram!: Ger. 
60 Swiss 9/14 22 Profits canton 

~ l• 
c 
-4
:x:a-•
-
I:D 
..
mz 
zo .. 
'0 ]I 
-o--1 -":X •.. 
• 
Z3; 
_() )>:X
z­
-..
)>~ -••" 
,..z .a­
(I) (I) 
0 


LEAPIN' LEDGERS! 
HPmakes professional business calculators studentscan afford. 
Great Grinnin' Gazookus! 
Hewlett-Packard has always made swell professional business calculators. 'Cept now they make some just for a student's needs and pocketbook. . They call 'em Series E. First is th' HP-37E Business Management for just $75:"' Yep, it's your best bet fn' a basic financial calculator. Fer' 
, instance it has the HP "cash flow sign conven-· tion" for intuitive problem solving-you don't have to know all that usual confusio' calculator stuff. And get a load of this: the HP-37E solves complex time and money problems so important to business students. Stuff like compound interest and growth, investment yield, return on investment and much more. · Then there's the HP:38E Advanced Financial with Programmability for only $120:"' If you gotta do the same calculations over and over a couple o' million times-this is your baby. Just key in your program once and it's ready to go over and over. It's a breeze. 'Course the HP-38E has all the power of 
the HP-37E, plus: Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value for up to 1,980 cash flows in 20 groups; a 2,000-yez: calendar; 5 financial and 20 user memories; up .o 99 program lines. 
Sufferin' Sunfish! These are some calcula­tors. So you really oughta see your HP dealer in short order. For the address: CALL TOLL FREE 800-648 4711 except for Alaska or Hawaii. In Nevada call 800-992-5710. And don't forget to ask your dealer for a free copy of "A buyer's guide to HP professional calculators:' It'll help you in makin' the right choice. Sure as shootin: 
HE~LETT"' PACKARD 
Dept. 658L, 1000 N E Circle Blvd.. Corvallis, OR 97330 619/11 
*Suggested retail price excluding applicable state and local taxes­Continental U.S.A., Alaska & Hawaii. 
w 
,. ... 
.:-~·..• 
The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, September 14, 1979 -page 22 


Molarity 

Pigeons 
Would you like to: 
0  Raise your grade average without long hours  
over texts.  - 
0  End all-night cramming sessions.  
0  Breeze through all your studying in as little as  
113 the time.  
0  Have more free time to enjoy yourself.  
0  Read 3 to 10 times faster, with better con­ 

centration, understanding, and recall. Evelyn Wood's new RD2 reading system makes it all possible. 

by McOure/Bymes 
Evelyn Wood works -over 1 million people, including students, executives, senators, and even presidents have proven it. A free 1 hour demon­stration will show you how to save hUtndreds of hours of drudgery this year (as well as how to increase your speed immediately with soine simple new reading techniques). 
It only takes an hour, and it's free. Don't miss it. 
EvelynWoodIDI 
will open your eyes. 
~© 1978 EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS/A URS COMPANY 
Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE EAST 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore Milwaukee Boston  95 85 81  49 61 62  .660 .5~\2 .566  11 13112  
New York Detroit Cleveland Toronto  79 78 74 46  64 68 71 99  .552 .534 .510 .317  15V2 18 21V2 49V2  
WEST  
California  so  66  .548  
Kansas City n Minnesota 75  69 71  .527 .514  3 5  
Texas  73  74  .497  7V2  
Chicago Seattle  63 61  82 86  .434 .415  16V2 19%  
Oakland  51  96  .347  29V2  

_Thursday's Games 
New York 10, Boston 3 
Baltimore 10, Toronto 4 
Cleveland at Detroit, ppd., rain 
Oakland 8, Milwaukee 3 
Minnesota 7, Texas 4, 12 Innings 
Frld1y's Games 
Cleveland (Barker 6-4) at Toronto (Stieb 6-6), (n) Boston (Torrez 14-11) at Baltimore (Stone 1Q-9), (n) Detroit (Chris 3·1) at New York (Hood <HI), (n) California (Barr 9-12) at Milwaukee (Sorensen 14-13), (n) Oakland (Langford 12-13) at Chicago (Baumgarten 12-8), (n) Seattle (Bannister 8·14) at Kansas City (Gura 11-10), (n) Minnesota (Goltz 14-10) at Texas (Jenkins 13-13), (n) 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
EAST 
W L Pet. GB Montreal 85 55 .607 Pittsburgh 87 57 .604 St. Louis 76 66 .535 10 Philadelphia 74 71 .510 13V2 
Chicago 73 71 .507 14 New York 55 88 .385 31V2 WEST 
1Cincinnati 83 63 .568 
Houston 81 64 .559 1V2 
Los Angeles 70 ·76 .479 13 
San Francisco64 83 .435 19V2 
San Diego 62 85 .422 21 V2 
Atlanta 57 88 .393 25V2 
Thursday's Games 
Atlanta 4, San Francisco 1 
St. Louis at Pittsburgh, ppd., rain 
Montreal 2, New York 1 
Philadelphia 2, New York 1 
Los Angeles 8, San Diego 6 
Friday's Games 
St. Louis {Vuckovich 13-10and Thomas3-3) at Montreal (May 9·2 and Sanderson 7-7), 2, (t·n) 
Chicago (McGlothen 11-12 or Hernandez 4-4) at Philadelphia (Noles 3-3), (n) Atlanta (P. Niekro 17-19) at San Diego ;Jones 11·11), (n) Cincinnati (Bonham 8-5) at Los Angeles {Sutcliffe 14·9), (n) Houston (Ruhle 1-3) at San Francisco (Halicki 5-5), (n) 
On the Air 
Football, Notre Dame vs. Michigan, with Paul Stauder and Frank LaGrotta, Saturday, 2:00pm, WSND AM 64. 
"College Football Scoreboard" with Skip Desjardin and Pat Toomey, Saturday, WSND AM 64, 6:00 pm. 
"Campus Corner" with Tighe Curran and Mike Ortman, Sunday, 6:00pm, WSND AM 64. 
"Pro Football Report" with Greg Meredith and Mark Jachec, Sunday, 6:30pm, WSND AM 64. 
"Speaking of Sports" with Paul Stauder and Frank LaGrotta, Sunday, 9:00pm, WSND AM 64. 
Councilman prepares for record swim 
DOVER, England (AP) . Indiana University swimming Coach James "Doc" Councilman was ready to swiw the English Channel todav. in his attempt to become the oldest person ever to swim the 21-mile stretch. 
Despite forecasts of strong winds, Counsilman, a 58-year­old grandfather, made up his fClind that today would be the big day. 

----------------------------------------------~~ 

The Observer -Sports Friday, September 14, 1979-page 23 
All classified ads mu~t be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.llb to 5:00 p.m. All 
cla5sifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or throllgh the· mail.
lelassifieds 

Notices -----------------------­Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888. Bicycle Touring Club organizational meeting, Sunday, Sept. 16, 7:30 p.m. LaFortune Basement. New members welcome! Gay students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's: Information & Referral P.O. Box 206. Social Concerns film series, Sun., Sept.16 through Fri. Sept.21. No charge. Morissey Loan Fund Student loans $20 to $200. 1 percent interest charge. Open M-F 11:3D-12:30. Basement of LaFortune. Mar-Main Pharmacy at 426 N. Michigan cashes personal checks for students with an ND/SMC ID. Lost&Found I lost a maroon wallet in the South Dining Hall at Tues. dinner. Contains everything important that I have. Reward. Rod6719 Lost: Two notebooks (Organic Chern., Calc.) in the lobby of the bookstore. Need badly. Please call Mark. 3368. Lost: One yellow and green shag rug-Re· ward. 8145. Lost: A jacket, Illinois Benedictine Col., Dark blue with white stripes on collar and wasteband. Call 1204. Lost: One Texas lnst. Tl-55 calculator sunday night or monday. Still has bookstore price on it!! Leave in Eiec. office or call 1508. Lost: Little Caesar is missing! Zahm's new plastic man was stolen Monday night. The purloined article is of great value personally and monetarily. infor­mation leading to its location will be rewarded. It was a gift, and we want it back! The Boy 8897 Wanted Wanted: Students to unload trucks, part-time, to be on call. Apply daytime at King's Cellar in Roseland. Part-time temporary help wanted on campus. $3.50 per hour. Call Arman Gasparian at 762-2136 on Sun. Seot. 16th between 4and 6 p.m. Immediate openings for part-time and full-time waitresses. Afternoon and eve­ning shifts. No experience needed. But, we prefer 21 years old. Apply in person 52129 U.S. 31 N. between 9 and 5, Gropp's Famous Fish & Stroh. Need ride to U. of I. (Champaign) Sept. 21. Will share driving/expenses. Mike 6758 or 6853. Wanted: Swim Coach, Concord age group AAU swim team needs swim coach for Its year around program. Cali 219-875-6000 for further information and interview. Need Riders: to Philadelphia area, or pts. east. Leave Fri. Sept. 14. Call Billy 234-()467. Clean-up man needed at Corby's, 6 mornings per week-3 hours per day. Cali Oscar at 233-0438. Ride needed to Cin.-Day. area this Friday. Tim 8164. Fortran ProgrammerI Analyst: Partici­pate in the development and writing of applications programs in the field of data base photo typesetting. The position requires at least. 2 years. FORTRAN experience with skills at dealmg With data management problems. Any PDP-11 or composition experience is helpful. Salary is open. Send resume to: PO Box 570, South Bend, IN 46624. Part-time (3 nights) and full-time work available.AII positions needed-evenings Apply in person-Nicola's Restaurant, .809 N. Michigan St. Close to campus---Dish­washer, busboy, pizza maker, clean-up & supply person-(this in afternoons). Talk to Gina. Boar's Head Restaurant is now hiring full and part-time busboys, dish washers, cocktail ~itressses and hostesses. Apply in person. Monday through Friday from 2 to 4:30. Equal opportunity Employer.  Wanted: 10-12 GA tickets to Georgia Tech or Navy games. Can trade 4 GA South Carolina tickets. Call Eric 1384.For Rent Desperately need 2 USC or So. Carolina tickets. Call Cathy 4789.Furnished country house. private, ten minutes to campus. Ideal for two to six Desperately need GA's for Mich. St. orpeople, 277-3604, ?.88-o<l'i5 Georgia Tech. Call Tom 1610. Need 2 South Carolina tix. Will pay decent$$$! Call Rick 277-1598.Tickets Desperate! Need two GA Michigan State Need Michigan State tixs. Big bucks! tickets! Call Jane 6372. Call Stan 1878. Need Mich. tix. Cali Tim or Nick,Need four GA South Carolina and/or G. 233-6249. Tech-ticket soon. 277-3782 nights. Need 2 tickets for any home football Money no object for 2 GA USC tix. Call game; preferably Oct. 27. Larry at 232-0384. Will pay through nose. Please cail1978. Desperately need four to· six GA tickets for Michigan State, willin9 to pay $$$$. Have to have 4 GA tickets for MichiganParents will disown me 1f I don't get St. Call Rick 8698. • them.Call r1002 or 1736. Will trade 4 GA Michigan State tix for 2 Need any amount of GA tix for MSU or Southern Cal GA tix. Call: 232-6667. USC. Match any offeO 1845. Jeff. Need several GA tickets for home gamesNeed 1 Georgia Tech Ticket. Will pay!!. except USC and South Carolina. Call Phone 8634. Susan 4-1-4868. Need 2GA tickets for USC game. Call Bill Need 2So. Cai.·ND. tix. Rich Uncle pays,8288. Close to 50 yard. Call 6424. Will trade 4 GA's to Georgia Tech for 4 Someone please sell me 3 Georgia Tech GA's to MSU. Call Jeff 8764. GA's. Jenny 6968. For Sale: 4 U of M-ND football tlx Want a date? I have 3 sisters who need 3 together. Best offer. Call 1-313·994·6029 Tix to Georgia Tech and 1Tix to USC, GA or 1-313-764-1072. ' or student. 1205-·Joe. Have 2 MSU GA's, will trade-for 2 Desperately need USC tickets. Will paySouthern Cal GA's. John 6334, 277 Your price. Cali Lance 1027. Dillon. I'll pay good money for 2 GA to Usc Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC and/or 1 tic to MSU. Please Help. Tonytickets. Cali Mark 1478. 1247. Please help me get 3 or 4 NO-Purdue Desperately need one USC ticket. Will tickets by this Friday. Thank you--I'll give pay aNY PRICE. Call Paul 8451. a fair price. Call John 1209. Desired: Any 1 USC ticket, call Joe at Need 2 GA's for USC will make deal. 8192. 277-4267. I am going to Stomp on every squirrel I CASH FOR YOUR STASH see unless I get 8 Georgia Tech .GA I need tix for Mich, Purdue, MSU* Tech, tickets--and soon! (Sick, huh?}. Call & USC. Help Mick 8212. Crash at 8627. Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top Will pay top $for student or GA USC tix­dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. Call Bi113549. Need 4GA tickets to MSU game for dying Mucho dinero for two GA USC tix··Cali grandparents. Call Lori at 4-1-4573 or marc 8378. Dan at 3322. Wanted Urgently: 2 tickets to the Notre Desperately need 5GA tix for Tennessee! .._ Dame-Southern Cal game Oct. 20. Call Call John at 3656. after 6:00pm. 615·790-D368. Must get 2-8 tickets to any home game. •. ,.Michigan State tickets need_~! S.A. or Will pay! Call Louie SMC-4456. "GA. Call Pau~ 11402: · Need 4 GA's for MSU. Will pay big Need 2 GA tickets for Mich. St. Will pay bucks. Call Jeff 8764. top dollar! Call Mike 8783. I will do anything for 6 to 10 student USC & So. Carolina tix for sale. Best and/or GA tix for Mich St. and/or USC. offer!! Call Cindy 5742. Please call Steve-8696. SOON!! For Sale, large quantity of used golf bails. Need 4 USC GA tickets, will beat any4/$1.00. Call Dave, 3414. offer. Money no object. Call Jack 8700. '75 Mere. Bobcat Wason P/S, new steel $$$$Need 2-4 GA tickets to any homeradials, new brakes, mech. sound. very game-Especially MSU. Call Pat at 1651.good transportation. 81,000 miles. Call Jack 287-2723. For Sale: Moped-Need of repair. Highest Mikey Bear,bid. Notre Dame Credit Union-4454. Happy 1122!! M.J.B.Win afree trip for two to the N.D./Miami game in Tokyo, Japan. A fifteen day This is for you,vacation to the Orient for only $5.00. For Kirby's Roommate: One day You'll openticket info. call Georgette 287-9628. The Observer and one of these will be for you.Too bad you'll never know who sentNeed 2-4 GA tickets for any home game. it.Call Dan 277-1318. Presidential s1 ',.tporter For Sale: Sansui TU 9900 stereo tuner. Excellent condition. List $570. Sell $225. To "Joe Cool"Call Jim at 1008. Your secret 4 extra horns are showing thru...To be warm In winter, with moreComics, new and old. DC, Marvel, than the northern kiss must be your plan.Warren. Also Starlog, Future Life, etc. "Your type" will receive little"radiatedDiscounts. 287-6920 evenings. goodnes' in the end. One word of advice: You had better turn "about face" beforeFree Catalog: Avon jewelry, cosmetics, it's too late. In reverence,Christmas gifts for women, men, and ROTC woman (B for best), Mickey thechildren. 287-6920 evenings. hickey, & Psych teacher Colleen United Airlines 50 percent discount tix. -Tony 233-6208. Desperately need 2 GA tix for MSU Call Jake 3180.1977 Kawasaki 100--mint condition with less than 400 miles--$500.00. Need 4 tix to USC. Please call Beth #1975 Honda Super Sport 750--aiso mint 41-4298.condition with less than 12,000 miles. $1000.00 Helmuts go with both bikes. Need one ticket to Tenn. Desperately!!May be seen over weekend. Call 277-7857 Cali Mary Ann.# 4-1-~47.and ask tor Bill. Money no object: Need 4 GA tickets for Georgia Tech. or USC. Call 4140 -SMC.NEED 2 or 4 Michigan State tickets. Call Laura 1674. Willing to give Almost Anything for 3 GA tix to Michigan State game and any otherWill pay anything for student or GA SC home games. Gall5770 or 4-1-4571--SMCtickets. Dan 1606.  Being Drafted-want to· see last football game before they ship me off to Cuba. Need two GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call John at 1947, 3087, or 1003. · Mafia Family members coming in for Georgia Tech .game. Make an offer--1 can't refuse. Need 2 GA tix. Call Little John at 1947, 3087, or 1003. Need GA's and student tix to all home games. Call Beth 4-1-5710 or Kate 4-1-5220. De~perately need 2 GA tix to MSU game. Will pay good$$. Call 4·4385. Personals Dear Lynn, We hope you have a nice birthday but just remember, 19 candles-19 shots! The Girls, Leslie, Cathy, Nitz, MJ, and Peggy Lector Workshop: Sunday, Sept. 16 at 7:00p.m. in Hayes-Healy auditorium. Lost: Dave Toma, "Super Cop". Can be found at Carroll Hall (SMC), 8:00, Sept. 17, no admission. Ellen, Free university time-keeping classes start tonight. Don't be late. Land (Loan) Shark If it wasn't for day editors, night editors wruldn't exist/ Beth, You'll never become a r,ro golfer If you keep playing "Putt-Putt ' Golf! Tim and Bob, Thanks for your help on Our concert. No matter what anyone says, you guys are great! MAC Greg, ThanJ<s for playing secretary and putting up wifll my"coniption" fits. MAC dennis Brennan· Thanks for all your help, You're a lifesaver! Kevin Jim King-You deserve more credit than you will ever get in Alumni. Thanks for every­thing. MAC JohnS., Dave H., Jim L., Greg, DaveS., and all the other men of Alumni who helped with OUR night!--Thanks!! . MAC JoE!"and Yac, Thanks for your backing and your help. We really did pull it off!! MAC P.S. Don't ever call me again! Last but not least, to Peggy Carson, I hope I didn't offend you on Wednesday night by not talking to you. Sorry. Mugsy 1 will negotiate an entire padded seat student basketball ticket and cash for 4 USC F.B. tix. Call Donna 116782. 1) Gooneys are.coming!! 2) Catch a lucky Gooney--they're magically delicious!! SMC: Holy Cross Rock-a·thon 1-4 Frttay • WNDU·AM. Holy Cross turns it on. Holy Cross-Morlssey Happy Hour at Nickles, 4-6. 7&7's at $.50. Alcoholic tennis player needs psuedo· competition .to preserve his sanity on weekends. SMC females preferred. In­quire at 3260. Ask for Eric. Run-of-the-mill darner dates don't Interest these girls, only "meaningful relationships". Those two blond bomb­shells from 4th floor Lyons, Ellen Binkowski and Colleen Bronder are well worth the walk! Dial 7983. It's heaven on earth. ·The Ryan/O'Brien Escort Service To Gene Hackman's Neicei Have a Happy 18th Birthday. -Peter and Bill ND Sophomore Women: You are invited by the SMC Class of '82 to an outdoor Mass and Brunch, on Sunday Sept. 16th at the SMC Clubhouse. In case of rain: LeMans Hall-Stapleton Lounge. From 11-1 pm. START OFF ON THE RIGHT FOOT! Establish your personal credential file-­come to Senior Placement Ori(lntation. Sign up atSMC Counseling and Career Development Center for any of the !allowing dates--Sept. 15, 19, 22, and 27. It's the right way to begin.  Campus Kennedy 80! Group forming. Call Paul at 8451 now. Lost: One Patsy Campbell. Reward if not returned. Last seen touring ND campus. For info, 41-5710. Dear Muss, Don't worry. Nobody will know it's your .birthday. Happy 22nd birthday a bit late. Love, Soan Pumpkin, Its been a great year! One down, Forever to go. Keep playing your cards right! ME Mad, 21 and still sliding into pools?· Happy Birthday. Love Chris. M.D. Have a Happy 21st. Keep Sat. nite free OK?! Loveya, E&T The author of Sexlfal Self-Transcendence .. is available for consultation, free. He'll be autographing his book tonite ant Goose's WSND party. S.E.X. is accepting new members for immediate submission. See Friday's Scholastic. Uterary Dedication to: · -Special women in Lewis, BP, LeMans, McCandless. -all Latin Lovelies of Badin ·miscellaneous sensual delights abound· ing dulac.$ A Playboy dedicates his Scholastic debut to you all. , Brian, Awake! Awake! There's no mistake That with the cake You'll get the lake! Happy 19th, Your Lewis Ladies Happy Birthday Lynn Ladd! Love, Ghost Waldo Joe Browse. Carol, Once wasn't enough. I guess some people are masochists. Good luck to­morrow! Chris Nadine and Sheila, Congratulations on the capping action. Love, C.*S.P.*·J.S.*DC*AND ALVIN P.S. You too Anneiliott Dear L, Hasn't been a month yet but "Je pense que j'ai L'amour pour vous." · Love, M· P.S. Awaiting your reply Happy Birthday Mike Burton from M&M of Holy Cross W'W'NND...Wednesday!! ND/SMC Sophomore Fun N4Jht-Sept. 19. SMC Clubhouse 5:30 dark, softball, frisbees, races, and munchies. Dear Bill, The shelves are fantastic. We can't thank you enough. love Room 222· Rich, ' Congrats on Med school, we knew you could do it! Best of luck at UVA!! Love, Mindy, Pat, Lisa, Laurie, Rosemary, and Karen. Roomie-­It's KamiKazi time! -P-Hey Everybody, today is Lynn Ladd's 19th birthday. Call her and wish her a happy one. SMC 114824 SMC: Holy Cross Rock-a-than, 1-4 Friday WNDU-AM. Holy Cross turns it on. Holy Cross-Morissey Happy Hour at Nickles. 4-6. 7&7's at 50 cents. Colleen O'Brien, Have the happiest Birthday ever! We're glad to have you here!! Let's celebrate it big!! Love always Your new found friends. *** **  

• 
( 

Irish face Michigan 
Devine hopes to repeat history 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine is hoping that history will repeat itself this Saturday. The Insh players are hoping to start some history of thetr own, as they face the Michigan Wolvennes in their 1979 season opener. 
Gametime in Michigan Stadi­um will be 2:20 EST, 3:20 in Ann Arbor, and a sellout crowd of more than 104,000 is expect­ed. The game will be televised regionally on ABC-TV, channel 28 in South Bend, with the telecast starting at 2 p.m. 
Devine has traveled to Ann Arbor twice in his coaching career, and both times his Missouri Tigers came home with victories. In 1959 Mizzou scored a t•n•rhdown on the last play of the game to edge Michig;m, 20-15. Ten years later the Devine-led Tigers routed the Wolverines, 40-17, Michigan's last loss to a non­conference opponent in the regular season. 
So ten years after that Michi­~an loss, Devine finds himself 10 Michigan Stadium again, as the Irish open what looks like the nation's toughest schedule. The Irish coach thinks Notre Dame is ready to tackle that rough schedule. "I think our intensity has been much better this time than a year ago,'' 
Devine said, "possibly because of the schedule we're looking at during the month of Septem­ber. Playing Michigan, Purdue and Michigan State to start the year ought to be all we need to get us going:" 
The way the matchups look right now, Michigan and Notre Dame will be sending their top units onto the field at the same time. "There's not much doubt in my mind that Michigan's defense will be one of our biggest tests of the season,'' Devine admitted. Notre Dame's big strength is its offense. 
The Wolverine defense is led by inside linebacker Ron Simp­kms. The 6-1, 220-pound senior has been selected to several pre-season All-American teams, and could become Mi­chigan's all-time leading tack­ler this weekend, needing only eight more stops to surpass Calvin O'Neill on the all-time list. 
Anchoring the front line is another All-American possibili­ty, defensive tackle Curtis Greer, who tied for the team lead in tackles in the Wolver­ines' opening win over North­western. The 6-5,-245-pound senior had ten stops to tie with middle guard Mike Trgovac for the game lead. 
Defensive backs Mike J oily and Mike Harden, who were both selected to the first team All-Big Ten squad tast year, 
Sports _Briefs_ ______, 
Dantle_y traded to Utah 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -The Utah Jazz announced Thursday they have traded forward Spencer Haywood to the Los Angeles Lakers in exchange for forward Adrian Dantley. 
SMC sponsors _fq~-A-Thon 
The Saint Mary's College department of athletics and recreatio~ is spons.oring aJog-a-Thon on Sunday, September 
30. Starung u~e 1s ~p.m., with jo~g~rs taking off from the Angela Athleuc Factltty and conunumg along a two mile course on the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses. 
) erry Dallessio, Sa!nt Mary's athletic director, encourages members of all ~·chtan~.communities to "come and use your speed for those m need. Proceeds from the Jog-a-Thon will go_ to the Saint Mary's College Fun and Learn Program for children with learning disabilities. 
Marathoners, ~oggers and runners of all ages may enter the event. To recetve sponsor forms, call 284-5849, or pick up forms at the Angela Athletic Facility between 8 a.m. and 11 p.m., Monday through Friday, or 12 noon to 11 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. 
St. Mar_y's hosts tennis tourne.v 
A seven team tennis tournament will be held on SaturdaySe~tem?er 15, on the courts at S~int Mary's College and th~ Umverstty of Notre Dame. Starung time is 9 a.m. 
Compettng in the tournament will be the women's teams from t_he University ofDayt~n, Dayton, Ohio; College ofSaint Francts, Fort W_ayne, Tndtana; Indiana State University, Terre H_aute, I~d~a~a; 'Taylor· University, Upland, Indiana; Valparatso Umvestty, Valparaiso, Indiana; Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. 
Volle_yball club holds tryouts 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball club is holding tryouts for all women with any jrevious volleyball expenence or interest. Those intereste should report to the North Dome of the ACC this Sunday at 6:30p.m. 
Irish ca!(ers to pla_y softball 
The Notre Dame basketball team will hold their annual intrasquad softball game this Sundal at 6 p.m. on Jake Kline Field. Digger Phelps and the rest o the Irish coaching staff, along with this year's freshmen players, will be facing the upperclassmen. Admission free. ' · 
return to lead the secondary. 
Notre Dame's offense should 
provide a solid test for Michi­
gan, although the Irish will be 
depending on the play of some 
new starters if they hope ·to 
score some points. 
Halfback Vagas Ferguson is ND's bi~gest asset, as he begins hts assault on Jerome Heavens' career rushing mark. The 6-2, 192-pound senwr, who already holds the single-game and season rushing marks, needs 648 yards to break Hea­vens' record, set last year. 
The fullback spot was left open after injuries to Pete Buchanan and Dave Mitchell, and Notre Dame is depending upon fresh­man John Sweeny to fill that spot. Rusty Lisch, whose last start was in 1977 against Pur­due, returns after a year-long layoff to start at quarterback. 
Senior tri-captain Tim Foley will lead the offensive line at tackle, but the Irish may have to play without the services of guard Tim Huffman, who is still hurting from pre-season drills. Devine said that junior walk-o~ Bob Burger may be starting qn Saturday. 
On defense, six sophomores are slated to start fot the Irish, but Michigan is also depending 
[continued on page 20] 
Meyers has no regrets about tryout 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Ann hope. It shows that anything is I've been to Russia (for the 
Friday, September 14, 1979 -page 24 

Meyers, unsuccessful in her attempt to become the first woman to play in the National Basketball Association, be­lieves her effort will create more opportunities for women in the sport. 
.''I know it (~er three-day tri:'ll wtth the Indiana Pacers) wtll open up a lot of doors for the women," Meyers said Thurs­day after assistant general manager Nancy Leonard an­nounced that the 24-year-old UCLA grad would work for the team in P.ublic relations. 
"It wtll give women's bas­ketball a little more recognition. And it will give young girls 
Hesburgh at odds with point spread 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­
Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh looked 
into his crystal ball Thursday night and saw red-and plenty of it. 
Hesburgh, making a rare ap­pearance at a student pep rally
on .the steps of the Umversity's 
Golden Dome, was upset. It wasn't the rally in preparation for the Fighting Irish's seaso 
opener against sixth-ranked Michigan that was troubling him. It was the point spread for the game in Ann Arbor, Mich. The ninth-ranked Irish are a 
6-to-7 point underdog in the 
regionally televised game.
'') immy The Greek may know his percentages," said Hes-
burgh. "But I know Notre possible." recent Spartacade Games)," 
Meyers,, a 5-foot-9, 140-she said. "This offer came at pound middle child in a family-the right time for me. of 11, said she was "a little "The Pacers offered me disappointed," about remain-something I couldn't turn down ing with the team as a non-for a lot of reasons." player. The men she hoped would be 
"I knew I had a chance, but her teammates were "great" have no rc:·grets. Itwas the best during the tryout at Butler decision for me," Meyers University, she said_ added. ''I've grown up playing 
The Pa·cers announced that against men," said the sister of Meyers' :specific responsibili-Milwaukee Bucks' forward ties were still undedded. The Dave Meyers. "I don't find it $50,000 contract she signed any different here. When I guaranteed her a position if she went out on the court, I was just failed to earn a playing position another athlete." with the warn. That included receiving some 
The decision to stgn the hard knocks during scrimmages contract means the 1976 U.S. conducted by Coach Bobby Olympic srar, who carried her Leonard, who decided Wed­nation's fllag in the opening nesday night that he would not ceremonies, won't_ be eligible invite the high-publicized for the 1980 team. rookie candidate to the dub's 
''I've been to the Olympics. training camp. ,-----· -----------------------"-J 
Bl.G BLUE IS THRU! 
It' S pt b 15th d all .
S e em er an lS Set For a war the Wolverines will not forget. Pre-season polls rank the Irish number nine, 
B h d b d k ·h
Ut t e stu ent 0 Y nows t at the tearn is fine. The battle is over, the stadium clean. Ann Arbor is owned by 
the Gre·en Machine. Shake down the thunder, we have isomethirtu to do. 
,., 
Unite and cheer~ BIG BLUE IS THRl" 
1 
~~~~~~ndwe'regoingto~re~ "-_.Tim Folev-Michi!(an Pep Ra#v-9/13/79 








