• • • American Garage -page 9 


VOL XIV, NO. 47 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8,1979 
Rape data proves incorrect 
By Tom Jackman pattern. Over a period of 11 nine incidents, and that he had Senior Staff Reporter years you can't really say that pointed out another one that one area stands out.'' had been left off. Roemer said that ''to the best The most notable feature of 
A map compiled by the Secur­of my knowledge it (the map) is the map was its cluster of four ity Department and Dean of accurate, and it was a bonafide · incidents on Saint Mary's Road Students James Roemer that effort on my part." He added, between Holy Cross HaJJ and pinpoints all reported rape inci­"But I can't give a definitive U.S. Rte. 31, one which occur­dents on campus since 1969 will number, and if we've missed a red in 1975, two on the same be re-researched and n:vised couple we'll go back to Glenn night exactly two years ago, after The Observer last night (Terry) and research it further.' and another last month. verified one of several reported Roemer noted that the first 
[continued on page 4]
inaccuracies in the map. draft of the map contained only the map located 10 rapes on campus in the last 11 years. But upon its release to The 
US government urges
Observer, several students claimed the number of incid­
ents was higher, and one rape Americans to leave Iran 
victim was contacted last night who verified that her incident The U.S. government urged in the radio broadcast, monitor­was not shown on the map Americans stil1 in Iran to leave ed in Kuwai1. and London. although it had been fully as at least two more U.S. The broadcast denied reports reported. Roemer then decided c.itizens were reported seized Iran had halted oil shipments to to retract the map pending yesterday and placedNith about the United States but said it fl;lrther research and investiga­60 hostages held by students would consider doing so if tion. demanding the United States America did not extradite Shah 
The: map was produced by return the exiled shah for triaL Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, secunty upon Roemer's request Two special envoys President ousted last January in Khomei­following two rapes which Carter sent to Iran in hopes of ni's Islamic revolution. The occurred over mid-semester winning freedom for the Amer­United States has refused to last month. Roemer said at that icans held since Sunday at the extradite the shah, hospitalized time he hoped to recognize a U.S. Embassy in Tehran were in New York for cancer, to face noticeable trend of incidents in stalled in Istanbul, Turkey. what the ayatollah calls crimes 
one specific area, although Iranian· leaders refused to let and corruption against tile Director of Security Glenn them into the country and the state. 
This is a view of Caron Coun in the LaFortune St\ldent Terry commented, "it really State Department said they In London, the British Broad­Center from dne floor up. (photo by Tim McKeQib( . doesn't show any particular would remain in Turkey ''pend­casting Corp. reported without ing clarification" from Teh­attribution that two Americans ran. were taken from the Hilton Tehran radio said earlier that Hotel in Tehran and put with
Iran denies alleged cutoff ofoil; 
revolutionary leader Ayatollah the hostages at the embassy. Ruhollah Khomeini would not BBC television also reported meet with them. Americans were being rounded

US ... industry sources 4isagree 
"Should the U.S.A. hand over up around Tehran. to Iran the deposed shah -this In Washington, the State De­
NEW YORK (AP) -The Ira­Iran's ruler. the Kharg Island port has been enemy Number One of our partment said about 200 Amer­nian oil minister and national An official at the Tehran office closed to all customers by what nation -and give up espionage Icans had lefr Iran on commer­oil company denied resterday of the National Iranian Oil Co. may have been a strike. against our movement, the way cial flights since the embassythat Iran, supplier o up to 5 said in a tel~phone interview: Oil Minister Mo'Infar said would then be open for talks takeover and urged the 300 to percent of U.S. oil consumpt­''Both the refinery in Abadan Monday that shipments to the about certain relations which 400 still in the country to leave. 
IOn, had cut off its oil shipments an ·d the oil-loading terminal at United States would be shut off are in the nation's interest," 
[continued on page 11]
from its main Persian Gulf Kharg Island are functioning. if Khomeini ordered the action. Khomeini was quoted as sayingport. There is no strike; everything is Oil company and embassy normal.'' 
reports from abroad also in­A spokesman for British Pet­To avoid lines dicated Iranian oil still was roleum Co. in London said, "we flowing. have got vessels in the area and 
Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-· they are keeping in touch with 

University simplifies pre-1"egistration
Wash., chairman of the Senate our tanker company, and as far Energy Committee, said in as we know the oil port at 
by Kathryn Casey courses during pre-registration. The studentWashington that although Kharg Island is still oper­
Staff Reporter coul_d. add a. course in January, following the"there was a ~eneral cutoff ating." 
familiar addmg process. FinalJy, should thereyesterday'' and ' conflicting re­On Tuesday, an oil company The simplified pre-registration procedure be e!lough spillover from a given course, another ports about today," there was executive, who asked not to be which has confused a good percentage of Notre secuon of the course would b e opened if possib ''an announcement that they quoted by name, said that Dame students in the last three days is not as le. This would vary from department to{the Iranians) are going to "Iran appears to be shut off." 
mind boggling as it seems. department.
resume sales,'' The possibility of a cutoff of A reduction in the number of checkmarked In the final analysis, the only element which isReports of a cutoff, which Iranian oil was discussed at the 
came from U.S. industry and· White House this morning courses is simply a way to avoid having long really foreign to students is the introduction of lines of campers waiting to obtain cards for the the opscan sheets. These sheets are the same as
government sources Tuesday, when Carter met with House 
had caused spot marker prices Democratic leaders, Rep courses they want. According to University the form 50 on the upper half, but the lower half Registrar Rick SuJlivan, many courses have been is a section which replaces the non-checkmarked 
for heating oil and gasoline to William Moorhead, D-Pa., re­
checkmarked unnecessarily in the past, and computer cards. 
jump sharply even though tra­ported. 
students have been up at 3 a.m. needlessly. In the past, students had to pick up these cards ders analysts said there was no But Energy Secretary Charles Under the new procedure, only those Univer­at the Stepan Center and fill them out. Now
immediate shortage. W. Duncan '5aid even if there is sity electives which are immensely popular and students will fill out the appropriate data on theBut Iranian Oil Minister Ali an interruption in Iranian oil definitely limited by course requirements such sheet and turn it in with any checkmark cards asMo'Infar, in an inter­shipments, ''our crude oil as classroom space will be checkmarked. Lab they complete registration. 
view with Tehran Radio moni­inventories are good'' and heat­
classes are an obvious example. The Preliminary The elimination of checkmark courses is not atored by the British Broad­ing oil and gasoline stocks are 
casting Corp. in London yester­Course Scheduling Booklet hsts the total number new idea, but a reverse trend, going back to
ample. 
day, said the shutdown report "We are in as good a position of students allowed in each non-checkmarked when classes were not checked at all. Sullivan "is completely false." course. said that he. felt there was an easier way for
as we can be moving into a 
Sullivan indicated however, that there may be students to pre-register and suggested that the
''There has not been the difficult situation,'' Duncan 
unforseen demands for newly-opened classes University total1y eliminate checkmarking.
slightest break in the export of said. 
Iran's oil," he was quoted as Administration and congres­and some students will not be able to take the "Students will have to be realistic in their class that they desire. ln this event, the student choices and refer to the guidelines in the Course 
saying. ''As announced two sional sources said earlier that 
will be notified within ten days. At that point, Scheduling Sullivan
days ago, any decision on halt­the Central Intelligence Agency Booklet,'' said. ''A 
ing oil exports to any part of the had determined U.S. tankers there are three possible alternatives. The sophomore business major should not expect to student could elect another course immediately (non-business elective) class which
world must be taken by'' have been barred in Iran. A get into a 
following the original process of choosing doses out after majors and others choose it.''
Ayatollah Ruhollan Khomeini, State Department official said 





















Ne-ws in brief 
Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 2 
Appeals granted 
Orchestra pops into being; 

SMC allocates club funds 
By Mary Kay Leydon considenition of appeals from n.e clubs expressed satisfact­
challenges Boston Pops 
those two organizations. ion with the SA's decision. The Saint Mary's Student The appeals were formulated Bernie Drossel, a member of Assembly voted on Sunday to after the student assembly allo­the sociology club, said that the PHILADELPHIA (AP) -] azz pianist Peter Nero rushing to 
allocate Increased funds to the cations were originally granted money would help to get fill the music vacuum created by the death of Boston Pops 
chemistry and sociology clubs. on Oct. 2. "At that time, clubs students out into the commun­m3:estro Arthur Fiedler, ':"ill lead ~newly created rival, the 
The group's decision came after unhappy with the money they ity and make them aware of Phllly Pops. Created by tmpresano Moe Septee, the Philly 
received had ten days to social problems. Pops w!ll open with an all-Gershwin program at the Academy 
appeal," SMC Student Gov-In October, the Student of Music Nov. 18 and 19. "Whatever the Boston Pops people 
ernment Treasurer Sheila Assembly allotted $3740 to do, they're in for a run for their money," says Nero, the 
Wixted said. clubs and organizations. After
Juniors
conductor-composer chosen by Septee to direct the The chemistry club requested the budget for school year was orchestra. 
~ 5,0 to be earmarked for a reevaluated, the remaining 
speaker series. It received $25. $114 was -allocated. W txted 
The sociology club requested said that additional funds given 
and received an additional $89 to clubs and organizations were
present
Over 1 00 percent vote 
for organization and additional not taken from previous alloca­
expenses. tions.
'Blow out'
in Benton County election 
The Notre Dame and Saint 
Texas shrimp escape 
Mary's junior classes will spon­sor thw ''Barn Blow-Out''
EARL PARK, Ind. (AP) -Political apathy is an unknown 
Saturday night from 9:00 to
quantity in this Benton County community, where every 
contamination frotnoil spill 
1:00 at the Diamond D Ranch. 
registered voter · and then some -cast ballots in Tuesday's 
Activities will include a dance 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas dustry. when 14 more than the 230 voters on the town's rolls showed 
town board election. The 100 percent-plus turnout came 
with music provided by the (AP) -Texas fishermen were "We were just plain lucky," up at the polls.Clerk-Treasurer Virginia Stump said she 
Chicago group Orphan. "just ~lain lucky" the Mexican he said. "The spill never really
Munchies, cider and other re­wasn't really surprised at the surge of voter interest. "Last oil sp1ll hurt them no worse made it to Texas, but that 
freshments will be served and
year, we had a pretty good turnout, but that was the first 
than it did, scientists at Texas doesn't mean the Texas marine election here in 19 years," she said. 
45 minute hayrides will be A&M University said yester· industry hasn't been hard hit." 
cumming all night. Bicause day. 
The offshore well in the Bay of
each hayride will take 50 peo­
Officials with the school's Sea 
ple, no crowding problems are Campeche, owned br the Mexi­
Grant Marine Advisory pro­can government's oi monopoly,
Flood plans retirement. 
anticipated. Tickets cost $3.50 
gram reported that they had Pemex, blew out] une 3 and has 
and will be available through 
proof the Ixtoc I oil
found no spewed millions of gallons of
tomorrow night from junior 
spill had any effect on Texas crude oil into the Gulf of
dorm representatives and in the 
shrimp production. 
Mexico. Pemex has slowed the
early next year 
dining halls during dinner. 
''To our knowledge there have flow but is still trying to cap the been no Texas shrimp caught well. 
that have any si~ns of oil WASHINGTON (AP) . Rep. Daniel Flood, D-Pa., who faces 
contamination," satd Dr. Ran­The spill threatened major
Committee 
damage to south Texas fisher­
zell Nickerson, a seafood tech­will resign from the House of Representives next Jan. 31, for 
retrial on federal criminal charges, announced yesterday he nology specialist, after studying men until seasonal Gulf cur­
tells clue rents shifted and pushed the oil 
reports from government a­health reasons. ''I find that my declining healtn no longer back to the south. 
gencies and the shrimping in-permits me to discharge my responsibilities to the full extent 
Christopher discovered Amer
to which my constituents are entitled,'' the 75-year-old rcan.
congressman said in a statement delivered to reporters by his He sets the example.
aides. The announcement gave no indicanon that the Do you have a map?
16-term congressman's pending retrial on bribery and conspiracy charges had anything to do with the resignation. 
-Observer­
~The Observer_ 
n~ds ~ypists 
"···"
Night Editor: ''I Quit'' ] ohn
Weather 
Smith Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre Murphy 
Apply· to Day Editor
Cloudy with a ~0 perce~t chance of showers. High around 
Copy Editor: ] ohn Ferroli,
40. Sho~ers l.tkely _tomght and tomorrow. Low mid and Kathy Casey~upper 30 s. Htgh m1d to upper 40's. . 
Layout Staff: Kathy Vick, 
The Observer Office Phone 7471
Danny Tarullo News Editor: Mark Rust Editorial Layout: Tom Behney 
ATTENTION SEMESTER GRADUATES
Features Layout:K. Connelly




CarnP-_u_s-----4 
Sports Layout: Beth ·, 
1-luffman 
The Continued Growth of 

Sports Copy Editor: Mike 
Ortman, Kate Huffman 
~------Ultimaster ------: 

6:30 pro--MEETING, off-campus council, OFF-CAMPUS 
1YPISI': Mark Perry, John ALCOVE 
has created an outstanding opportunity on

Smith, Tina Terlaak, Bill 
Swift, Cindy Grillot, K. 
the sales staff for a sales trainee. Initially.

Connelly SHED 
6:30 pm--MEETING, leadership training class, BULLA 
EMT: SPECIAL THANKS 
the position will require a period of training 
TO Mike Galvin, 
Helper-Trish 6:30 pro--MEETING, nd-smc ski team, LA FORTIJNE 

so as to fully prepare the individual in all

Proofreader: Bruce Oakley 
ND bay Editor: I don't know 
THEATRE 
facets of our industry and business. It is 

SMC Day Editor: Peggy
7,9,11, pm--FILM, "the magic christian," ENGR. AUD. 
anticipated that this position will lead to
Schneeman 
Ad Design: ] oe Murphy

7, 9 pm--FILM, ''four hundred blows,'' sponsored by dept. of 
sales representative position. 
Photographer: Tim
arts & letters, LIB. AUD. 
McKeog& 
Compensation includes excellent salary 

Guest Appearances: Sal
7 pm--DANCF A fHON, thru sat., nov. 10 sponsored 
Grannta: Happy Birthday 
plus liberal fringe benefit package. We are

by nd/smc right to life, LA FORTUNE BALLROOM Ryan! 
located approx. 25 minutes southeast of 

7:30 pm--MEETING, bailly downwind alliance, SOUTH 
TIM Observtr [USPS B 120) II
BEND PUBLIC LIB. 
South Bend. 

publishtd Monday through Frtdly n­
cept during nam aRd vallllperildl.
8 pro--LECTURE, "history and modernity; intellectual 
The Observer is publisllld by till 
If you are an enthusiastic and energetic individual who is

students If Nttrl DIIM IIIII Slim
perspective and institutional context," philip gleason, dept. 
looking for an outstanding opportunity for personal and

Mlfy's Clllltl. SM....... lillY Ill
of history, nd, LIB. AUD. LOUNGE 
pmMuc~ .., sa ,. ,_ 11• ,., 
professional growth, Please contact: MR. BRIAN 

IIIMitfil frwn The Observer. fi.O. lla 
BRADY· ULTIMASTER DIVISION* HOLIDAY8 pro--CONCERT, fall choral concen, LITTLE THEATRE 

Q, .... blllll, .......... s.c.ct 
RAMBLER CORP.* 65526 ST. RD. 19, WAKARUSA • SMC 

ctau Plltaae •. Nttrt 011111, '"" 
INDIANA. 46573. (219) 862-4551. An equal opponunity The Observer is I IMIIIIIIr If 1111 
diana ·41551. 
employer.

9 pm--NAZZ--bobby ~tone and his rhythm rockers 
~ rr.a. All •••••dill 
rtgldlll'l ·-.... 

' ,, 
' 

.,.. . . ,·,.J_.,. --... -.. -... ­
' ~ 

\ 
The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979, 1979 -page 3 
~ _.s-a..~
•. ~'~ 


micfiael)&co. 
~· 
oolr concepti 

Tomorrow's Hair Designs . , . .'Today for Contemporary Men &·Women ~ 

kt'~.A
North 
Southland Plaza

Yz 11le east tf Notn D•• 
ZMl E. lre11111 ati!Giwood
Edison II bad. 2-3 
(219~_291-1 001
(219) 2•72-7222 


Ir----------------,
~·or-·~ I 

I • I I ·.,.~ r*\ I
I ~ ...~ 1Live Thursday Night Chip and Katll
Kennedy announces candidacy. • ·1 
2Y DRAFTS Morr-Thurs 
I 

Boston (AP)-Sen. Edward M. after first indicating she was advance. It is willin~ to make I 9: 30-lQ: 30 I Kennedy declared yesterday he leaning toward supporting a stand and so am I.' ..· 
Caner.
will seek the presidency in 1980 Enumerating what he called ~---------------· 
because President Carter has In his speech, Kennedy said stark failures, Kennedy said I I
·-----------------~---------------------· 
a

failed to provide leadership to a that ''When present difficulties "workers are forced to take I 
grow so large that they threaten second job to make ends meet Icountry that is ''willing, even the essential confidence of the because wages are rising onlY.
anxious, to be on the march 
. , 

a gam. nation, only the president can half as fast as prices. Families' 
The last of the Kennedy marshal the energies of the go into debt and suffer real brothers and heir to a modern people and provide a sense of financial hardship to educate political dynasty made his direction.'' their children. This year the announcement m boston's "For many months," he said, poo~est 10 percent of our pop-historic F aneuil Hall, listing_ "We have been sinking into ulation must pay 119 percent of what he called stark failures of crisis. We have no clear their income for the necessities Carter Administration domestic summons from the center of o~ life. ,That means they go I policies. power. wuhout. 


Then the Massachusetts Government falters. Fear After his announcement, Democrat left on a sweeping spreads that our leaders have Kennedy flew to Manchester, DO YOU KNOW THESE GIRLS? campaign trip taking him from resigned themselves to retreat. N.H., an oil-dependent I 
Maine to Oklahoma, with stops Thts country is not prepared to -[continued on page 10] Last seen on Friday at the Eminent Victorian Lounge I I
sound retreat. It ts ready to
in New Hampshire, Illinois, above The Ice House and are expected to be there every I 
I

Tennessee, Florida, South Fri~ay entertaining from 5:00 -7:00, Happy Hour -4-6 
I 

Carolina and Connecticut. Datly. I 
I

Kennedy said that before the . . . Brown follows suit
last Presidential election, ''we 
were told that Americans were ~-·-------------------------------------· 
WASHINGTON(AP) -Edmund tiona! convention to write ahonest, lovin_g, good, decent Gerald_ Brown Jr., who at 41 is budget-balancing amendment
and compass10nat<;; Now, the peo,Ple ~ 4>lariie<t ,.or" every l()aki.,g his second try for the to-the constitution. 
national ill and scolded as White House, rejected political His most drHmatic turnabout greedy, wasteful and mired in life as a youth and spent 3 1I 2 was over California's tax-cut­Malaise." years studying to be a Roman ting proposition 13, which he 
"Which is it?" he asked. Catholic priest. first opposed and then em­''Did we change so much in Now in his second four-year bra-:ed as "the will of the these three years? Or is it term as governor of California, people" after it was approved because our present leadership Brown will announce his can­by state voters last year. does not understand that we are didacy for the Democratic pres­The two issues Brown talks willing, even anxious to be on idential nomination this morn­about most today are fiscal the march a_gain? ' ' ing at the National Press Club restraint to end federal budget 
The most dramatic moment of here. deficits and his opposition to the announcement came when nuclear power. 
Brown, who uses the nick­
Kennedy was asked whether His favorite audiences are 
name Jerry, enters the race as
his wife, Joan, who has lived in college students. He tells 
a more conservative alternative 
Boston apart from the Senator, camrus rallies that the New
to President Carter and Sen.
would campaign for him. Dea philosophy of "throwing
Edward M .. K:ennedy, D-Mass., 
Kennedy supporters in the money at problems" has failed, 
on economic Issues.
crowded hall booed the and that a new generation of
But Brown also is trying to
question. But Kennedy leadership with a new vision is
attract liberals with his opposi­motioned for silence and then needed.
tion to nuclear power, his
turned to his wife, seated on the who been cam­
Brown, hasappointment of women, blacksstage behind him, and said, 

paigning and raising funds
and Hispanics to high state
"Joan?" 
since July, enters the presi­
Mrs. Kennedy, who has been offices, and highly visible politi­
dentiaf race a distant thtrd in
fighting alcoholism, stepped cal ties to such liberal figures as 
the polls, behind Kennedy and
forward and said, to cheers Cesar Chavez, Jane Fonda and Carter.
and applause, "I look forward Tom Hayden. 
Brown gained some surprise

to campaigning for him.'' 
Brown describes that balance victories in 1976, when hisShe added that she soon would as his ''canoe theory -you late-starting campaign contri­talk to reporters, ' 'And I hope paddle a little on the left, then buted to Carter defeats into answer all the questions you you paddle a little on the right Maryland, Nevada and Califor­might , , have on your minds and you keep going right down nia, the only three states wheretoday. 
the middle.'' both men were on the ballot.
Seated with Mrs. Kennedy on Brown won r~ election as gov­The governor begins his 1980the platform were the couple's ernor by a landslide in 1978, race with no __grassroots organi­three children, Kara, 19, breaking all modern California zation few
Edward M. Jr., 18, and Patrick and ties, even in 
electoral records, but that vic­California, to the DemocraticJoseph, 12. 
tory is credited more to inept Party establishment, which heOther Kennedy family orposition than to voter approv­has alternately ridiculed andmembers, including]acqueline a of his canoe-theory politics. ignored.
Kennedy Onassis and Ethel Despite his early reputation as The bachelor governor alsoKennedy, the widows of John a liberal in the mold of his has been criticized for hisand Robert Kennedy, were 
father, former California Gov. singer
seated in the front row. Also relationship . with rock given a place of honor with the Edmund G. "Pat" Brown, the Linda Ronstadt, whom he dates 
" family was Mayor Jane Byrne younger Brown has parted com­regularly and took with him on ofChtca_go who recently endor­pany with most liberals by a ~2-day trip to Africa last sed Kenn~dy' s presidential bid endorsing a proposed constitu-spnng. 


-------------' 
The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979 -page 4 
Lll7rNi AN EVENING WITH GSTOJV Tcttto WEDNESDAY, NOV.14 8PM 'R_ O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM RESERVED SEATS TICKET SALES THROUGH SMC PROGRAMMING OFFICE $5.00SPONSERED BY SAPB  

e<''­for ~~~~ HARRY CHAPIN appearing Dec. 7, 8:00 pm Sunday, Nov. 11 8:00 pm Stepan Center Limit 10 Tickets 16.50 J5.5Q Go on sale Nov. 12 9:00 pm Student Union Ticket OHice also available at ACC Gate 10  

[continued from page 1 

Terry said he does not believe this points to a definite trend, and security has increased shu­ttle bus traffic and car patrols along the road to help rape prevention. Terry said that he felt the road was well-lit already and does not need additional lighting. 
The other six rapes listed on the map occurred behind Walsh Hall, in Stanford Hall, in the D1 parking lot, near the W ndu tower, at O'Hara-Grace town­houses, and behind the ACC near Cartier Field, also during this year's fall break. Terry noted that this latter incident might have been prevented if a gate left open for the football game earlier that day had been locked that night as it should have been. 
Additional steps the security department has taken to fight the problem, Terry said, include organizing seminars 

• • . Rape 
Professor Connolly speaks on public interest tonight 
Professor William E. Connolly Economy (with Micheal Best), 
of the University of Mass­and The State and the Public achusetts, Amherst, will speak Interest. He has also edited 
The Bias of Pluralism and
on ''The Public Interest and the 
Common Good" tonight at 8:00 Social Structure and Political in room room 117 of Hagger Theory (with Glen Gordon). 
The Department ofGovernmentHall. Connolly is the author of 
and International Studies
Political Science and Ideology, 
cordially invites all faculty and
The Terms of Political Dis­
students to attend the lecture.
course, The Politicized 
ND power plant contpletes preparations for winter 
conducted by the South Bend 
Police Department for women students--which Terry said were not well-attended--and meeting with off-campus stud­ents to discuss the situation. Security members have also been attending sessions run by the Sex Offense Staff of Psycho­logical Services on how to 
by Tim Vercellotti 
As winter approaches, the power plant has finished preparations for the oncoming cold weather by stockpiling fuel and ensuring that the campus ­wide heating system is in order. 
According to John DeLee, handle victims. 
Terry noted that security has been hi~dered by a lack of cooperation from some victims aad vague descriptions given by others. He concluded that "if we had 500 people strategi­cally located around campus, then we could probably get the 
job done.'' 


director of utilities, the plant 
has a more than adequate 
supply of coal, heating oil, and 
natural gas. The system runs 
primarily on coal, so there is 
very little danger of any sort of 
shortage this winter. 
The plant is responsible for 
all campus heaung needs, 
including the classrooms and 
the ACC. The system is based 
on steam, which is piped into 
the radiators of each building. 
Any malfunctions in the system 
are reponed by a computel , 
located in the plant. 
''The nicest thing about this system is that in seventeen of the dorms, there are thermo­stats in each. room," DeLee, ~ex.p.la1n-s. ··ttthat way' swd~nts 
can determine the temperature 
that they want without freezing 
or roasting their neighbors.'' 
In the evening, the plant 
automatically reduces room 
temperatures by about four 
de~rees for the night. In 
bmldings that are not being 
used, the heat is shut off 
entirely. Should the lower 
temperatures prove 
uncomfortable for students, 
they can always raise their 
thermostats. 
Not only are the individual 
thermostats a convenience, 
they are also very economical. 
DeLee revealed that because 
there is no overheating roughly 
$300,000 was saved last winter. 
DeLee projected that the cost 
for heating the campus will run 
around $955,000 for this winter. 
To keep these costs at a 
minimum, DeLee offered a few 
suggesuons. 
''First of all, turn your 
thermostats down to a 
comfortable level (anywhere 
from 60-65 degrees) before 
going to bed. Also, dress 
warmly during the day, and try 
to set your thermostats no 
higher than 68 degrees. '' 
Energy conservation paid off 
last winter in more than just 
dollars. Recently, the 
University was presented the 
Governor's Award for Energy 
Conservation as a result of a 
campus-wide effort. DeLee 
hoped that conservation 
measures would be practiced as 
extensively in the upcoming 
months as they have been in the 
past. 

~~-·~--------~~ __........ -~-~---~-----~­


The Observer rThursday, November 8~ 1979-page 5 
Protestors allegedly abuse American hostages in Iran 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Amer­ican hostages held in the U.S. Embassy in Iran are being ''pushed around, abused, in­timidated and mishandled,'' but there is no evidence that any have been seriously injured, a 
U.S. official said late yesterday. 
Word of the mistreatment was given to reporters as President Carter's special mediators found themselves stalled in Turkey with Iranian authorities refusing to negotiate with them. 

The official, who asked that he not be identified, said there was no evidence that any of the estimated 60 American hos­tages held in the U.S. Embassy in Tehran have been ''beaten, stabbed or shot." 
U.S. officials said the Iranians have brought new weapons into the embassy compound, includ­ing machine guns. 
But State Department spokes­man Hodding Carter said he had no evidence that there had been any shooting. 
''We have been unable to confirm with any of our sources that there has been firing," the State Department spokesman said. 
The two American negotiators sent to seek the release of the Americans held hostage were stalled in Turkey when Iranian leaders refused to let them into the country. 
Ramsey Clark, a former U.S. attorney general, and William Miller, a staff member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, were reported by the State Department to be waiting in Istanbul for further instruction. 
State Department spokesman Carter said the two emissaries, carrying a personal message from President Carter to Iran­ian leaders, would remain in Turkey indefinitely ''pending clarification" from the Tehran government. 
Today's New York Times reported that friends of the Shah say he has offered to leave the U mted States because of the crisis in Tehran, but that doctorS; family and "'"fHehds have dissuaded him. 
"It is our hope that they will be able to proceed with their mission at the earliest oppor­tunity,'' spokesman Carter said. 
President Carter on Tuesday night sent Clark and Miller to meet with top religious or civilian officials, including the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who makes his headquarters in Qom, a religious center. 
Clark and Miller flew to 


Athens, but by the time they arrived, were being told they would not be welcome in Iran. They then flew to Istanbul where the mission stalled. 
"Frankly, we're sitting and waiting," said a U.S. official, who asked that he not be identified 
Although the State Depart­ment insisted yesterday that 
U.S. offici<J,ls had received per­mission to go to Iran, Khomei­ni, Iran's religious revoulution­ary leader, was insisting that no Iranian official had been au­thorized to negotiate with them. An Iranian government broad­cast, monitored in Kuwait, demanded that the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, 
now in a New York hospital for Having reached an agr~ement after settling teacher-management contract disputes, Mary 
Barrett and Her collective · · 
[continued on page 12 
handshake. [Photo by Tim Miller stresses possible . failure for Chrysler bailout 
W ASHINTON (AP) -Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller told Congress on yester­day that the administration's proposed $1. 5 billion bailout of the Chrysler Corp. is a "sound financial package'' but may not succeed. 
"We have tried to take off our rose-colored glasses and look at the '!YOrld as it is, but we cannot give you a guarantee,'' Miller told the economic stabilization subcommittee of the House Banking Committee. 
The subcommittee plans to meet again later this week to consider amendments which will determine the shape in which the administration pro­posal for loan guarantees is sent to the full Banking Com­mittee for consideration before going to the House floor. 
Miller repeatedly told the panel that the administra­tion's plan has a "reasonable" chance of success and that without loan guarantees Chrys­lif. faces bankruptcy, which he said would be more costly to the taxpayers than the proposed bailout. 
He also said· the government does not plan to take over the management of Chrysler and determine what kind of auto­mobiles it makes. 

''I think this is a reasonable financial plan;" he said. "If we fail, we lose some money but I don't think we ought to take over Chrysler and run it.'' 
Miller reiterated that the Chrysler aid plan was intended as a ''one-time program'' and would not set a precedent for gov~rnment aid to other failing busmesses. 
He said he had no philosophi­cal objections to a proposed amendment by Rep. Henry Reuss, D-Wis., chairman of the Banking Committee, that would require Chrysler to concentrate on fuel-saving vehicles to quali­fy for the loan guarantees. 
But he said he would have to review the Reuss proposal be­fore commenting in detail. 


classmates finalize the deal with the traditional 
THURSDAY Nov. 8, 1979 7pm-3am 
LOWENBR.AU 3DraftsI$1.00 GIVEAWAYS ALL NITE LONG 










-. 



The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 6 



Juniper Press's-AUTOGRAPH PARTY FOR Abecedary: An Antic, Alphabet by Ralph Mcinerny IDustrated by P .L. Stow TODAY BETWEEN 3:00·and 5:00 at the Library Lounge refreshments served 



by Mary Leavitt 
As pre-registration for the spring semester approaches, Saint Mary's College is offering a number of new courses to its students. 
The art department has intro­duced a course called Art History Methods (An 362). This course deals with art not only in the studio but also on an academic level. It is team taught by Drs. Michele Fricke and Marcia McSweeney. 
The business department has developed a course entitled Union -Management Relations (Buec 421). Paula Auburn, a former personnel director in South Bend who is considered an expert in the field of union and management relations, will teach the course. 
Courses are also being opened to non-business majors in the business department for the spring semester. Principles of Accounting I (Buec 201) is being taught out of sequence to accomodate non-majors. In addition, a section of Personal Finance (Buec 314) has been 
Pre -registration 

SMC offers new courses 
left open. to non-majors. This course is considered ideal for the student taking a business course as an elective since it deals with all aspects of the world of finance on a personal, day to day level. 
In an effort to expose students to one of today' s more popular issues, the physics department is furnishing a course dealing with energy and the environment (Phys 210). Because it is meant for a general audience, there 
are  no  prerequisites  to  this  
course.  
A  course  in Reading for  the  

Culturally Different (Educ 400) is being offered by the educa­tion ?epartment. Taught by Dr. 
Kanlee Watson, this course deals with teaching methods for people of different cultures. 
Numerous new courses are being offered by the English department for the spring se­mester. Old Testament Litera­ture (Enlt 265) taught by Elisa­beth Noel, Contemporary American Poetry (Enlt 372) taught by Ann Loux and Tran­scendentalism (Enlt 461) taught by Michael ] ones are all new 


Every Tuesday Night ForJust $1.69 
Your Neighborhoo_d Pizza Hut® restaurant brings you a large dinner of delicious artistry for just $1.69. And we're not just whistling Dixie, when we say we make spaghetti the way Mom does. It's our brand new old-fashioned recipe! And from cooking the pasta to tasty perfection ... to simmering the rich meat sauce till it's just right ..·. to serving up the hearty garlic bread, every loving touch is an exercise in the fine art of preparing spaghetti 
just like Mom's. Thesday night is Spaghetti Night at Pizza Hut®, when we cook up a very special dish at a very special price. Just $1.69 for a large 
dinner with meat sauce, $1.39 for a small. It's enough to make even Mom whistle in delighted surprise! 
Available at our South Bend, Elkhart, Goshen, Nappanee and Mishawaka restaurants. 
· • ~ 
·~ 
contributions. 

A course dealing with public 
administration (Govt 355) has 
been newly devised by the 
government department. The 
course will introduce the stu­
dent to public bureaucratic 
operation and behavior in 
American society. A back­
ground in politics is recom­
mended. 

The history department is 
furnishing two new courses for 
the worldly-minded student: A 
history of modern Italy (Hist 
370) is being taught by Dr. Anthony Black. Dr. Charles Poinsatte is teaching a three part course entitled cities in Modern Europe. The first part of the course deals with the city ofParis (Hist 371A), the second with Dublin and Edinborough (Hist 371B), and the third with London (Hist 371C). Students may register for any part or all of the course. 
The department of humanistic 
studies has one new course 
offering · Renaissance Culture 
(Hist 325) taught by Dr. Bruno 
Schlesinger. This course stud­
ies society and art during the 
Italian Renaissance, dealing 
mainly with the cities of Flor­
ence, Venice and Rome. 

The nursing department has 
four new course offerings. 
They inelude two independent 
study programs (Nurs 498), a 
course in Nurse as Manager 
(Nurs 406) and a workshop 
entitled Helping Skills (Nurs 
376A). 

Greek Philosophy (Phil 331) is 
being presented by the philo­
sophy department next semes­
ter. It teaches the theory of 
language as a way of knowmg. 
The psychology department is 
offering special topic courses to 
interested psychology students. 
Among the more interesting 
are Psychology of Conversation 
(Psyc 409E) and Hormones and 
Behavior (Psyc 409F). 

Two new courses are being 
offered by the religious studies department. Christian Culture (Rlst 300) examines the Christ­ian understanding of their rela­tionship ,with the gospel while ·rRe~'team taught Christians and Justice (Rlst 395) is dedicated to the examination of issues of justice and independent re­
sponsibilities in varios areas. 
The sociology department is 
furnishing four new courses for 
the new semester. They are 
Sociology of Education (Soc 
307), Work, Leisure and Sport 
(Soc 340), Interviewing Skills 
(Soc 376A) and Technology and 
Society (Soc 3768). 

Advance registration for the spring semester begins Novem­ber 8th and runs through the 15th. A schedule of the various course offerings is available to students in the registrar's of­fice. 
. . Hoffberger 
(continued from page 16] 

are extenuating enough to get the commissioner's permission, which he did not,'' he added. 
Hughes, taking a break yester­day during a Board of Public Works meeting, added; "I didn't throw the first ball as a politician. I threw it out a former minor league baseball player.·· 
Hoffherger, meanwhile, said, "I don't think I broke any rule. I had plenty of outs.'' 
• 

Editoric:~~s  Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 7  
Universitr allocations represent dualvictory The allocation Tuesday of $40,000 in Ur,iversity funds for hall social space improvements represents a dual victory for the students of Notre Dame. Not only is the allocation indicative of a new res{>onsiveness on the part of the Administration to the social needs of students, but it also reflects a new effeectiveness on the part of student government. Lack of adequate social space is a problem that has concerned students for many years. However, the Admi.nistration has unfortunately been slow in admitting that students have social, as well as academic and athletic needs which the University is oartiallv responsible to fulfill. While in the past the University has allocated funds for improvements in specific halls, the recent allocation marks an unprecedented committment to a general improvement in social conditions for dorms throughout campus. The Observer applauds this committment. Student Government is to be commended for the role it has plaved in helping the Administration become sensitive to the " I d f d M b f dsocia nee s o stu ents. em ers o stu ent government have worked closely with the Administration on the student government-initiated proposal for social space improvement,and Tuesday's allocation is largely the result of their efforts. The student body has been served well by its student government and the Administration in this case. The Observer applauds the positive steps that have been taken towards elimination of a problem that has long-plagued this camnus. We hope these efforts will be followed throuvh by"' ~conttnued committment to the improvement of social hfe at No~~ Dame_  P.O. Box of compounding the irony. that the ND-SMC students be While Toohey was positing the invited by The Observer to joinWriter condemns nuclear challenge to the the ranks of GDC. Perhaps it is Christian conscience, your edi­they who can influence the torial staff was giving a nearly corporation to forsake its pre­GDC glorification full-page advertisement (page paration for nuclear murder, to four) to the General Dynamics cease its berrayal ofChrist. But Corp., one of the leading con­my inclination is to think that itDear Editor: tractors working on the ''Tri­is a bad thing that General dent Monster.'' In the recruit­pynamics be glorified as it wasFr. Bill Toohey's condemna­ing pitch that this ad forwarded 10 your pages.tion of the nuclear arms race were the bold-face words:(Nov. 5) was full of common LET'S TALK TECHNOLOGY. Christopher Barrett, ~77 sense and good Christian think-Pardon me, but much of theing. In his piece entitled "The ''technology'' of GeneralIrony and the Terror'' he spoke Dynamics IS a most hideous,of the "current madness" mortally sinful ''death technoI-which ts manifested tn thed d ogy. " 1development an eP. oy.rflentof the Trident misstles, the It was only a week ago-­Observer submarine-launched monsters Monday, Oct. 29-­that there which constitute the deadliest, were five large demonstrations . against Trident in various partsmost demonic weapon in mill-adds column ofthe country. The midwesterntary history· site was the headquarters ofToohey caught so well the General Dynamics in St. Louis,irony in Time magazine's mis-where the connection to Trident this weekrepresentation of the ''true is direct and unmistakable.cost" of the arms race. The Perhaps it is a good thingObserver did a rather good job "  

~~~~--------------------------~ 
MutnS the word 
WASHINGTON--The cam­at the end, the oue thing I will pardon of Nixon has to be off 
paign manager and one of the not talk about is what happened limits. Frankly, sir, we may 
presidential candidates were here,'' the candidate have to go it alone." 
having a meeting. suggested. ''Could we rent the Goodyear 
"The one thing I have no "It's a good idea. By the blimp during the Superbowl 
intention of bringing up if way, I've been in touch with the and announce it that way?" 
Teddy runs is Chappaquid­other campaign managers and ''I'll check it out. The other 
dick,'' the candidate said. we're trying to see if we could candidates might demand equal 
arrange a TV panel with all the space and the blimp can just
"You're absolutely right, 

presidential candidates. Each handle so many announce­
sir,'' his manager said. ''I 

of them could give their reasons ments.''
think it would be a big 

why they will not discuss "This is a problem," the
mistake.'' 

Chappaquidick. We could get candidate said. ''I'd like to be
''I believe we should put out 

John Chancellor, Walter the first one to say that Cha~­
a press release saying thati will 

Cronkite and Barbara Walters paquidick is not the issue, but If
not talk about Cha.Ppaquiddick 

to host it." one of the candidates 
__because I'consiaer tt a personal 

"I like it," said the announces it before I do, it will
matter that has no place in 

candidate. look as though the idea did not
American politics.'' 

''I'm running into trouble originate with me.'' .
''A media release could get 

putting it together. Connally's • • Agreed. At the same ume
lost," the manager said. "I 

man said he. won't agree to it if Teddy, at the last moment,
think you should hold a press 

unless we all announce we decides not to run we'II have
conference and make a strong 

won't bring up his milk fund used up a lot of money for no 
statement spelling out your 

trial. Reagan's manager says good reason. " 
reasons for not making Chap­

he'll only agree if we promise ''There is also the possibility
paquiddick an issue." 

not to talk about Reagan dyeing that Carter could beat Kennedy
''What about a TV his hair. And the Carter people for the nomination. We don't 
commercial that we could play say if any candidate brings up want to peak on refusing to 
during the campaign? I could jogging all bets are off.'' discuss Chappaquiddick too 
do it on Martha's Vineyard. I ''Anyone heard from Jerry early. " 
would talk about inflation, Ford?" "We're covering all bases," 
e~rgy, and SALT and then say "His man says that Ford's the manager satd. "Our 
Art Buchwald 
advertising agenc~ has reserved billboards ts New Hampshire, Florida, Iowa, Pennsylvania and New York. It will have your picture on it and say, 'Vote for the man who kept Chappaquiddick out of his 
",
campat~n. 
"I wtsh I could do it more subtly. Maybe we could rent that big sign over Times Square, put my name up in lights and flash on and off: INFLATION SI--CHAPPA­QUIDDICK NO.'' 
'Til check it out. Now let's talk about your speech tonight to Radar Trappers Union. We put in the paragraJ.>h you used last week in Detroit about not panicking in a crisis. The Kennedy people raised hell about it. Do you want to leave it 
. )"
10. 
''Sure, but add a line that when I'm speaking about panic I am certainly not referring to Chappaquiddick as that would be dirty pool." 
[c] 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
A new opinion coiumn with c: 
liberal pomt of view will begi 
appearing on .:1e editorial pag 
f The Observer starting to-
arrow. Columnist Colma 
McCarthy of the Washingto Post Wnters Group will com­
ment on subjects ranging fro Washington politics to organic 
farming to golf. McCarthy recently appeared at Notre 
Dame as one of the speakers a the National Conference 
bortion held Oct. 15-17. 
''I'm less interested in tellin eaders my n~w thoughts tha 
in offering ideas that migh 'nduce new thoughts in them," 
f<-Canhy says of his colum 
hilosophy. "That's the lastin 
xcirement of journalism. 
eaders want to be challenged. 
hey are weary of ho-hu 
iews written by the intellectu­lly smug for the mentall 
nert. '' 
McCarthy's wide range 
interests and his warm styl 
ha~e made him one of th 
Post's most admired writers. 
he best of his columns hav 
been collected in two books 
''Disturbers of the Peace'' 
(1973) and "Inner Compan 
ions" (1975. Also publishe 
as a collection of his column 
rom the Post's sports section, 
''The Pleasures of the Game'' 
(1977). 
McCarthy was educated in th public schools of Nassau Coun 
ty, Long Island. He graduate from Sprin~ Hill Colle.ge? M? bile, Ala., m 1960, maJonng t English and minoring in philo sophy. Following colle~e, h spent five years farmmg rural Georgia. 
He lives in Washington with his wife .and three sons. "It's lively at home," he says. "My wife is a Goldwater conserva­tive and my kids like RonaH Reagan, starting with his hair­do. So I'm a lone liberal agains• four conservatives. Those arr. jLISt the kind of odds to keep me alert." 
>
·et: 
::l 
m 
en 
w 
z 
g 

FIN!) AIVYTH!NG IN'!EI?ES77N6 ARE YOU 
~r, MANr /(IO!JINGr JtJSftaJI<
I ATAl/..71115
I 

PARKJNG 7T~ 13V/CT'ION NOTTC&S, BETTING 57T/85, FOaJ STAMPS, EJaJNC£1) OIECK5, 
~SliPS, t/NF!N!SHa? 
IMNIISCRJPTS, 
O'IE!?J:)(£BIU-5•. 
\ 

.. Pfl£5CR/PTION 81ANKS, R:¥l.6&lJ PA93R:I<T5.. /AJIY, 8/i?eNNeR., 7HERE'5 A~OFli41l­
tJR£ ANI? MAtF!;ASANC:e ~ 7HAT 9PAN5 0~ 
TltllfHTY reARS! 
'\ 
'!011 7HINKIN6 CF etJ/nNG H/5 I [)(}NT PAP!iR5, MAN? KNOfAJ IFI 
I COUJ.I) {)() IT 
TJ .,.,-r,r•r::: I 

-TheObserver_  administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials  Editorial Board and Department Managers Editor·m -chtef ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry  \  
represent the opimon of a majority of  Managing Edttor....... ... Diane Wilson  Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly  
&x Q NolTe Dame, IN 46.U6  the  Editorial  Board.  Commentaries,  Edrtonal  Editor .............. Ann  Gales  Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian  
opinions and letters are  the views of  Senior Copy Editor .........M.  Onufrak  
I The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students  their authors. Column space is avail­ahle to all members of the community,  Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis News Editor.............. ...... Mark Rust  Buszness Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager .... ,)ohn McGrath  
ofthe University of Noue Dame du lac  and  the  free  expression  of varying  News Editor .... .............Mike Shields  Advertising Manager .........Bob Ruriy  
and Saint Mary's College. It does not  opinions on campus, through letters, is  SMC Execuhve Editor .....Ellen Buddr.  Controller..................Kevin M~ ., ·  
necessarily reflect the policies of the  encouraged.  SMC News Editor........ Margie Brassal  Circulation ManaJur...  i.·  

,, f .. 

The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 8 
Tire c.flfliaf 
ANCAKEHOUS 
J 


(0u/l gpreillQty 

C0ven-CBo.ked u\pp~e cpancake~ 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze never surpassed! 
U.S. 31 [Dixleway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn] 212·7433 
Sun.· Thurs. 6A.M. to 9 P.M. Fri. & Sat. 6A.M. to 10 P.M. 
Clc;~land Mayor Dennis J. Kuctmch, accused by his party Jf being a spoiler for the past 
two years, spoiled the 

Democrats' othetwise perfect 
record for holding onto Major City Mayoralities. The Maverick Democrat lost in tuesday's balloting, while the Democrats kept hold of all the 
other city halls they controlled. !heir mayoral candidates won m more than one-fourth of the nation's big cities as scores of 
ele~tions were held across the 
natton. 

The party also held on to 
go_ve~n~rs~ips in Kentucky and 
Mtsstsstppt. They retained 
control oflegislatures in 

Virginia and New Jersey, too 
although the republicans ' 
claimed inroads. 

San Francisco and Houston the vote in a bid for his second 
•
•

: HOWTO
i GET BETTER MILEAGE 

: FROM YOUR CAR... 
: Obey the 55 mph speed limit. 
• • 

e Avoid hot rod starts. 


i• >1(fiJW~
• } )j)·..,
. 
•e ..;) 

Don't let the engine idle more e than 30 seconds. 
e 
• 
• 

Democrats dominate elections 
failed to elect mayors in non­partisan elections, and a quick start for the runoffs indicates the real sparks are yet to fly. 
Houston Mayor ] 1m McConn led the crowded ballot but fell far short of the majority he needed to avoid a runoff and now faces Councilman Louis Nacey in the Nov. 20 show­down. The two are arch rivals and the next two weeks are certain to be excitin~. 
"Get ready, baby, ' McConn taunted. ''We have some things we'll have to talk about that might make Mr. Nacey run for cover.'' 
"Mayor, you must be drunk again,'' Nacey shot back. "Don't come out with that stuff.'' 
McConn got 42.5 percent of 
Keep your engine tuned. 
Drive at a steady pace. 
And when buying, don't forget the fuel economy label is part of the price tag, too. 
• ----~---------------------------------------------------1 
e : For a free booklet with more easy tips on saving energy I
•. ENERGY. and money, write "Energy," Box 62, Oak Ridge, TN 37830. : ••• 1 Name
• ...can I 1 
Address : 
: aHord to city ~ 
•
•
:! 
: • 
: 
• • 
•e •
•
i 
.• •
•e 
e 
e 
•
• • 
• : 
• 
: 

: WGSfe if. ----State--------------------Zip---------------: : 
: U.S. Department of Energy : 
~ 
. 

...... , ........................................ 
two-year term. The final unofficial tally was McConn 80,412, Nacey 56,761. Leonel Castillo, a former city controller who resigned as head of the 
U.S. Immigration and Naturali­zation Servtce to enter the race, received 44,685 votes. 
In San Francisco, Mayor Dianne Feinstein got 42 percent of the vote despite a very long candidate list, but still faces a Dec. 11 runoff against Quentin 
[continued on page i~J 
Snite Museum 
adds four 
new members 
The Snite Museum of Art at 
Notre Dame han added four 
members to tis staff: Douglas 
Bradley, curator of the art of 
the Americas; John Phegley, 
assistant preparator; Lynda 
Halley, admimstrarive assistant 
to the director, and a full-time 
secretary for the Friends of the 
Snite Museum, the museum's 
member··ship program. 
In his position as curator for 
American art, Bradley will re­
search catalog and care for art 
objects from North, Central and 
South America. He comes to 
Notre Dame from the Child­
ren's Museum in Indianapolis 
where he was curator of ethno­
graphy. He was also curator of 
the Children's Museum Depart­
ment Sunrise Foundation in 
Charleston, W. Va. 
Phegley, as assistant prep· 
arator, will construct exhibition 
spaces and be resposible for 
receiving, handling and 
preparing objects for exhibi­
tion. He attended the ] ohn · 
Herron School of Art in Indian­
apolis and was formerly as­
sistant v.reparator at the In­
"'dianapo{~s ~useum of An.. 
Ms:· italley will coordinate the 
museum's educational and out­
reach programs as administra­
tive assistant to the director. 
After serving as graphic media 
designer for the Oklahoma 
Transportation Department 
from 1975-77, she earned a 
master's of fine arts from Notre 
Dame this year. 
Thlese ,P?Sitions, including the 
secretanal position, were made 
possivle through grants award­
ed by the Indiana Arts Commis­
sion and the Department of 
Health, Education and Welfare. 
•****************• 
~ ~
. 
. 
~ 
.
• ~ • ~ 
~ -tc ~ 
. 
~ B ..
: uy :
• .• • ~ .• : ~ Observer : •
.• .•
~ 
: Classi*ieds:
• '1~ • 
• .•
~
. ... 
iC ...
"' .
. 
.. ~ 
•***************~ 





Features 
The Volcano Fizzles 
Mike Bigley 


Ifeel/ike I'm stranded on a sandbar Stuck in my tracks like a streetcar Pla]in itfor all that its worth I'm justpayingfor my sins on earth 
He goes on to suggest that his life of "flying off to St. Somewhere" to escape cabin fever might have left him short, 
Haven 'tfound the answers like some thatI know I'm just stuck in a fairly nice maze 
''Chanson Pour Les Petits Enfants'' is by far the best song on the album. It is a Cat Stevens sounding song about two aliens who land on some Carribean island where 

they are celebrated. The two flyJimmy Buffett's new al~um is away in the night, but Buffett leaves appropnately named Volcano; It starts the listener on earth to let him listen out explosive and ends up dormant. to the rest of the album and possibly
The first side of the album seems to fall asleep.pick you up off the planet Earth in the As you flip the album over, · title track, and lands you on some thinking to get more of the same, be 
enchanted island in ''Chanson Pour prepared. Buffett has become laid­Les Petite Enfants.'' back, and it becomes hard to The album opens with a good "Survive" the rest of the album, one-two punch with "Fins", a song because it is possible it might put youabout local bar pick-ups. It ha~ a in "Dreamsicle" land. This side is classic Buffett beat resembllng fuJI of some down right corny lyrics,"Livingston Saturday Night," and a but some of the songs are stiH filled 
very catchy calypso tune Volcano that with Jimmy Buffett magic. contains a "NO NUKES" reference "Lady I Can't Explam" is one of to Three Mile Island, as well as those half-assed Buffett rockers with 
allusions to other political issues. Most little commercial potential. "Boat of the-album reflects Buffett's rather Drinks'' is one of the better songs on unique life style. His lyrics seem to the album, but it is hidden between 
·question whether or not he has two snoozers that detract from its 
accomplished anything after a dozen quality. "Boat Drinks" is a classic albums. These self-evaluating lyrics Buffett take off, much like ''Cheese­are nothing new for Buffett. In his burger in Paradise. '' first attempt at music, Buffet~ was a ''Dreamsicle'' is filled with failure in rock n roll, wh1ch he awkward rhymes and phrasing. yetreflected on in his first hit "Come is is a very pleasant sounding songMonday'' that doesn't rock you, but remains 
I've got my Hushpuppies on interesting. If you are still awake I guess I was never meant after that cut, ''Sending The Old Man For glitter rock n roll Home,'' foHows -it must be an ode to Nytol. I'm not sure, because I can't Buffett spends half of his life seem to listen to the whole thing at getting rowdy in concert on the once without catching forty winks, or main-land, and the other h_alf pushing the reject button on the turn ''wasted away again in Margarlt~­table. This song reminds me of a bar 
ville." Volcano focuses on what this in the middle of Montana, with a life style has done to Jimmy Buffett. fourth rate guitar player sitting in the The album continues with ''Treat corner-playmg a guitar with a broken 
Her Like A Lady'' and ''Stranded on string. Ironically enough, the a Sandbar''. The first is a rather nice ac~ustic guitar is played by James ballad to the sea which is co-written Taylor.by David Loggins, who h~d the h~t Jimmy Buffett's new album is ''Please Come to Boston. In this nothing to rave about, but for the 
tune Buffett sings that he is ''in Buffett purists it is an enjoyabledanger of extinctio~ too.'' Th~ lat.ter album. Volcano has already climbed song is the most dtrect exammat1on to the number nine ~sition in the of Buffett's life. charts, and may _go h1gher, but it is ''I enjoy this life as ajester not the best Buffett has put out so 
Seems to l.eep me moving around ... far. 
I'm not no 
Musicvie-ws 
Thursday, November 8, '!979 -page 9 

erican Garage 
PAT ME1HENY GROUP 


Chalon Mullins 
I got an introduction to the material on this album la~t week at a co~cert in 
C:hicago. Consequently, I had no doubt I would.want this album 'Yhen 1t c~e 
out two days later. Several subsequent listenmgs have only remforced this 
favorable first impression. As a follow-up to the tremendous Pat Metkeny 
Group Album, American Garage maintains the high standard of the prevtous 
effort, and even improves on it. 

If you don't know, the group consists of Pat Metheny on ~uitar, Lyle Mays 
on Piano and keyboards, Mark Egan on bass, and Dan Gottheb on ~rums. On 
the album, Egan and Gottlieb remain in the suppo~ing roles to whtch r~yrhm 
players are usually delegated. The only excepuon 1s when Egan occastonally 
takes over or supplements the statement of r~e them_e, but ~Je has no ~olos on 
record as he does in concert, where he Improvises wuh authonty and 
imagination. H~~·e he combines with Gottlieb to form a rhythm section in the 
great tradition of jazz rhythm sections. Listen to how Gottlieb plays fast and 
loose with the beat, and how Egan supports him solidly throughout. 
May's piano playing rem~nds me of that of Keith Jarrett. He has th~ s.ame 
lyrical tone and the same Jazz colormg. Mays uses grace notes ~o 1m1tate 
blues intonations accents the offbeats, and attacks the keyboard wah a deft, 
but daring touch.' His solos are featured more prom.inendy on this a!bum. ~h.an 
on the last, which is all to the best. For an outstandmg example of hts abthttes 
as an improviser, listen closely to his solo on "The Epic." 

Metheny is a stand-out even in this fine company. ~'ve neve~ heard a more original guitar sound. He plays through two amps, wuh a device that del~ys the signal between them ever so slightly. The device has the effect of makmg every note sound like it is being picked twice, as if Pat were playing a. 12-and not a 6-string guitar. Metheny's tone and techn~que are. that_of rhe Jaz.z and not the rock artist. He uses a _{>ure, full sound,, wtthout distortion and wu~out frills. He doesn't bend the stnngs or emphasize the blue notes (flatted thirds and sevenths) and his style is very melodic and engaging. In his solos, .he emphasizes message rather than technique. He's not out to dazzle you wah runs ofsixteenth notes. Listen to "(Cross the) Heartland" for an example ?f his unhurried improvising. But it's not that he doesn't have the chops. H1s solo on the title track dispels that illusion. In fact, his dexterity is ~II the mo~e impressive for the clarity with which each note is ~ounde~. ~II m all, he ts perhaps the finest of a tremendous crop of young Jazz guitarists. 
Mays and Metheny collaborate on the composition of all the tunes on th~s album. I use the term "composition" advisedly. None of the tunes are m blues song forms, with repetition of verses of ~lternating v~rse and ch?rus,. They are more suite-like in form. Methey doesn t always avo1d meandenng m his solo compositions, but Mays' influence seems to be a positive one, since the tunes on the group albums are remarkable for the tightness of their structure. This is by no means difficult music: the melod~es are all e~inendy hummable, as friends who've been bugged by my tweeung can tesufy. . 
.One thing I heard in concert that ~·ve missed on the albums is just how ~ot this band 1s~ They can really budd up a head of steam. I found this particularly true during Metheny's solos, when he has the full sound of th.e band behind him. The music is so pleasing you may have a tendency to play lt at almost background levels. Don't! Turn it up!! This is not cocktail music, not Muzak. The band attacks /assages head on, with crisp phr~ing and driving rhythms. They play lou live, so listen to~them the""way they want to be heard. 
It's just a shame we won't -have a chance to _see this band Friday night. T~e group is probably the best new jazz band smce Weather Report. But th1s week has seen the cancellatin of two of the best musical ensembles, bar genre, in the world-this band and the Chick Corea/Gary Burton duet. I was afraid that might happen when I saw how few peo~fn turned our for the Sonny Rollins concert earlter. I've heard a lot of comp ts about what a cultural wasteland South Bend is. But when the .oppo~nity ~ose to catch ~o superlative acts in the same week, we blew u. G1ven t~e UDJ?Orta~ce on lave peiformance in jazz, this is a loss not even fi.n~ rec~rdmgs like th1s <:>ne can recompense. We can stitJ hope such opportunities will come along agam, and that next time they won't i...-.e blown. 
We were ata party· will enjo,Y, "6060-842", -and "Hero His earlobe feU in the deep Worsh1p ' sounds a lot like Patti . Someone reached in a11dgrahbedit Smith, only better. It was a rock lobster The album ends with "Downtown", ''Theres a Moon in the Sky(Called Petula Clark's hit from the 60's. The 
the Moon)" is a backhanded tribute B-J2'sversion is much more interest­to the Space Age. Nobody gets left ing than the original, and is a good out, not even the Van Allen Belt: indication of the type of music they

Iimburger ... 
Many gamma rays around it really like. Combine the originality Van Allen Belt surrounds it and liveliness of 60's rock'n'roll with This is the space af!.e
Michael A. Korbel 

Please don't worry..... It's embarassing to admit that the Planet Claire has pink air 
"52 Girls" is my favorite from therecord I'm reviewing has been to Allthe trees are red ·album, one meant to sing the praisesm~re parties than I have this 

No one ever dies there of the "principal girls of the USA".
semester, but in this particular case I 
No one has a head It has the strongest and fastest beat
could never have kept up the pace. 
of any song I've ever heard. ItsThe newest group that the New. Wave It's easy to see that extremely deep extemely hard to sit still during thishas deposited on our shores ts The lyrics are not in their game plan for song, as you want to jump up and joinB-52 's, and it doesn't take long for commercial success. Two songs on Linus in dancing the "pogo". Havingone to r~alize that they're just a little which the lyrics really do conjure up fun is what this music is all about,bit different. By using SOf!le rat~er strong images of rather absurd visual and it's rather apparent tha. Theunique instruments (walkte talktC:, occurences are ''Rock Lobster'' and B-52 's have an awfully g xi time toy piano, and smoke alarm) •. thetr "There's a Moon in the Sky (Called with their music. 
sound is not one that can easily be the Moon). ''Rock Lpbster'' could I'm not sure what "Dance Thislost in the crowd. "Planet Claire" easily have been the theme song for Mess Around'', is all about, but its a was the immediate favorite off the any one of countless numbers of great song to scream at the top ofalbum although no one could prob­inane beach movies that come out in your lungs. A dejected lover ;l.skes
ably t~ll you why, ~It hough l~rics the sixtie~. It tell of a beach party the question: "Why won' yqu r'.ance 
seem to be the group s str~:mgpomt. where everyone has matching towels with me, l'm not no Iimburger?"
Can you imagme anythmg more and everythi'ng is slightly out of the Those of you. who call (or write)meaningful than: ordinary: phone numbers on bathroom walls 

\~ 
--1... -~­


....... The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 10 

• • . Kennedy 
that he has been unable to find
[continued from page 3]

•* NOWYOUCAN 
: 
an issue on which he differs northern New England, and the sharply with President Carter. State where the first presiden­He replied by singling out the 
tial primary will be held next Carter Administration efforts to
* 

..• 
* February. combat inflation. 
Speaking at a local restaurant, He said that if he is elected, it.. ,.. * Kennedy repeated his criticism would be ''clear from the very 
.. * 
* 
B * of the Carter Administration's start'' that the person respon­handling of energy and said sible for the battle against ''The soaring profits of the oil inflation. 

* ,..* 
Before you graduate from college! Because now, you can com­• ,.. ** 


companies announced in recent Kennedy also released yester­
* bine service in the Army Reserve or National Guard with Af!n_y * 
weeks are being achieved at the day a statement that he under­
* ROTC. It's called the Simultaneous Membership Program (SMP). * expense of the consumers of went a physical examination America, particqlarly the home several days ago and was found 
** And, depending on your academic year when you enter, SMP : 
owners of New England who to be in excellent condition. It
* can help you earn over $6,500. ** 
have to pay the exorbitant and disclosed that he had successful
* 
* 
Here's howit works. Ifyou qualify and a vacancy is available, * unconsctonalbe prices the surgery for minor skin cancer

* 
you become a member of an Army Reserve or National Guard unit * industry is now charging for on) une 22, and in a report on


* * 
home heating oil and other taxes, Kennedy said he paid
* as an officer trainee and, at the same time, enroll in the Army * 
energy products.'' $315,508 in U.S. income taxes
* * 
* 
ROTC advanced course at your college. Your Reserve or Guard * Kenneox was asked about last year. His adjusted gross

* 
membership will pay you a~ the minimum level ofSergeant E-5,and * criticism from the White House income was $702,697.


* * 
* you'll receive $100 a month during the regular school year as an * •
* * 
Anny ROTC advanced course cadet.
* * 
* At the end of your second year of advanced ROTC, you'll be : Oloir presents concert tonight
*
* 
commissioned a second lieutenant and, assuming there's a vacancy,

* 
serve with a Guard or Reserve unit while you complete the require­* The Saint Mary's College Col­is open to the public with no


* * legiate Choir, a mixed-voices admission fee. Accompanists
* 
ments for your colleg_e degree. Upon graduation, you may con­* group including Notre Dame are Becky Zink of South Bend,
* * 
tinue service with a Guard or Reserve unit while pursuing your students, will join the SMC Ann Armstron~ of Elkhart and
* * 
Women's Choir for a dual Barbara Philhps of Ballwin,
* civilian career, or you can, if you prefer, compete for active duty as * 
* * 
concert in the Little Theatre of Misourri, and Carol Calahan of
* 
an Army officer. * Moreau Hall tonight at 8:00. Logansport.

* 
So if you'd like to earn over $6,500 while you're still in college, The Collegiate Choir will pre­The Women's choir, which


*
* 
get into SMP. Because SMP can help you do it. You can bank on it! sent selections form Holst, sings annually at a spring Mass

* 
Brahms, Hovhaness and Hair­in Chicago's Holy Names Ca­

* 
For further information, contact the Professor of Military 


ston; the Women's Choir has thedral, has recently received a
* Science at your school. chosen works of Deering, ] os­grant from the Indiana Arts
* 
quin, Rossini, Schubert and Commission to support a num­
*
* 
Mendelssohn. Schubert's ber of concerts throughout In­

* 
"Staendchen" will feature diana. Both choirs have made

* 
mezzo-soprano 
Nancy Ken­several appearances in the* a 


nedy, voice instructor at the Michiana area.
*
* 
College, as soloist. · Sprague, who earned his

* 
ARMY ROTC. ARMY NATIONAL GUAIID ARMY RESERVE. Raymond Sprague, assistant D.Mus.A. at the University of


*
**************************************************** professor of music and director Colorado, Boulder, is a member 
of both choral groups, is concert of the review board for The master for the program, which Choral journal. 



saturday 

Novernber10,1979 
1:05 p.m. 
Atkinson's Park, Ketchum, Idaho 

All students are cordiallY invited to the university of Ketchum's Homecoming Formal Dance November 10, 9:00p.m.Limelight Room, sun Valley Inn sun valley, Idaho 
Formal Attire 

..........a...a..................................s..•s~o•s....................................~ 
The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979 -page 11 

Citizens vote on number of tax bills 
Voters across the nation look­1980." ed into their pocketbooks and By nearly 3-to-1, Californians then cast their ballots to slap ordered all levels of govern­lids on tax increases, to order ment in the state to hold future limits on government spending spending at the previous year's and to refuse to pay new bottle level except where inflation or and can deposits. population growth hiked costs. 
In Washington state, voters Seventeen months ago, voters on Tuesday overwhelmingly a­in that state sparked a national greed to link increases in state tax revolt when they approved -~axes to the growth of personal Proposition 13, which slashed 
mcome, and they turned down a California property taxes by $7 bill that would have required a billion. 5-cent deposit on alJ cans and Paul Gann, a sponsor of both bottles. California measures, said he 
''I think the message coming will launch a national move­out of the polls is that the ment "to bring federal spend­people want Washington state ing under control... by removing government to live within its from our Congressmen the means and quit taking a larger power to spend this nation into 
. . ' 

and larger share of their in­economic rum. come," said state Rep. Ron In northwest Missouri, voters Dunlap. · in Worth County turned down a 
Dunlap predicted that Tues­tax increase of $5 on eachl$1,000 ~a~·s polling foreshadows tax of assessed property value. hmttatwn measures that will Officials said they'd be forced "roll over the whole country in to close the courthouse when 
the money runs out later this These ducks take a final dip in the lake before it begins to·freeze over from Winter. 
month . In Oklahoma, however, voters

. Glalition 
rejected a proposal to give 
• • • Government
taxpayers a federal income tax 

deduction on state tax returns.SJX>nsors Supporters blamed the mea­
urged the United States to efforts to free the hostages. 
sure's failure on confusion a­[continued from page 1] reject the shah's regime and The Palestine Liberation Or­mong voters whether it would contact Khomeini. Its other ganization group was "already 
save them money or cost them State Department spokesman member is William Miller,
quarter night 
a on the way" to Tehran, said a more. Hodding Carter indicated Senate committee aide who spokesman for U.N. Secretary­Ohio voters turned down by official surprise over Khomei­speaks Iran's Farsi Language. General Kurt Waldheim.
The World Hunger Coalition 
nearly a 3-to-1 margin a propo­ni' s reported refusal to meet The two left Washington Tues­
will sponsor quarter night to­us that the PLO
"It looks to
sal to require consumers to pay with the U.S. envoys. He said day night after conferring with
ni~ht at Saint Mary's College to initiative is now-much consider­
a 10 cent deposit on beverage '·~e have had enough contact President Carter. Carter told
ra1se money for Mdukatshani ed as an important step,"
containers and outlaw cans with wtth them to get authorization reporters yesterday he hoped
Land School in South Africa. Waldheim's spokesman said. Students will collect money in detachable snap tops. for the mission.'' the trip would succeed in 
But in Maine, voters trounced He said the trip was specifical­freeing the hosta~es. "We The United States does notfront of the dining hall. WHC by a 5-to-1 margin an effort to ly approved by Iranian officials. pray it will,'' he sa1d. officially recognize the PLOraised about $60.00 for the repeal the state's 22-month-old The mission is led by former Tehran radio did not say guerrilla chief Yasser Arafat,school at a quarter night last bottle bill, which requires de­Attorney General RamseyClark, whether Kohmeini would also who visited Khomeini shortlyweek on the Notre Dame 
campus. posits as a means of curbing who met with the ayatollah refuse to meet with a special after he returned from exile in litter. 
during his exile 10 Pari: 
and PLO delegation going to Iran in France last February. 
. 

erJUStt6e ' courses 
Notre Dame: 
GOVT 455 Economic Development 
St. Mary's: AMST 263 American Society and Politics Jameson 21'T4 
SO~ 234 Social Work in AqjonSame as ECON 380. 
$ McGowand 10 MWF . d' . 
Petllc 9TTll' \ ·"' 

1\n iqtroductory Amencan Stu tes courj:e
destgned to explore the development ot .· PHIL 285 Technology jlnd Society SOC 334 Social Work Methods IIManier 10TT12 and ITI3American social forms and institutions from the 
Civil War to the present, . Second of rwp : This course.is qivid~d into fiv~ sections aqd Martucci 9 MWF semesters but first semester ts not a prerequt-· mdudes exammauon ofthe frole ot technology m 
SOC 43) Social Work Internship 
modem societies and in eveloping nattons
site. 
Martucci 12 M and l2 W

technology in the context o general theories ot 
ECON 353 Labor Economics social ana cultural ~volution and other topics. 
THEO 242 Christian Ethics Today 
Leahy 9TTII . d . . I 
Mallqy 1 MWF . .
After drawin~ on economtc an 1po ttlca Thts course i~ intended as an mtroductton toPHIL 430 Tustice ·historY. to clarity the present predi,(:ament of 
Sterba 1TI3 the discipline ot Christian Ethics. 
·

Third World Countries. the course tocus<;s op
major issues in economtc and political moderm­This c9urse will focus on John Rawls' A THEO 315 Evolution of Social Consciousness in
Theory of},ustice and consider various criticism& 
zatton. 
the New Testament

that nave been directed at Rawls' contractual 
Ford 9 MWF . .
ECON 400 Developmem~~The Third World's approach to justice. 
Subjects treated will be poverty .and weahl~h;
Ouest for ] ustice . the. land; women·1 slavery; busmess et tcs;
PNV ·. 326 Conflict Resolution 
· Goulet "9TT~l • . 1 MWF Smith punty and dtetary aws. 
. Thir~ Worl development 1S at;1 tmportant 
i arena tp whic the quest tor justtc~ goes oq THEO 340 Moral ResP.Qnsibility 
· flround tssues of mass povertY~ dependency, and PNV 348 Voices of Nonviolence 
1IT3 Yoder Menensotto I He1.1pen tTT4 . .
rhonelessness. The course focuses on the values Thts course wilfdeal with ethical reflecnon on
• ~no troubling ambiguities surrounding vanol!$ 
issues of justice of business. . · .
ANTH 400 Same as ECON 400. 
i' development strategtes. 
l ~ 
ANTH 446 Current Issues--Food in Culture THEO 348 Same as PNV. 348, 
Van esterik 1TT3 
· ECON 482 Trade and Development Pcoblems of THEO 350 Christians and the Third World 
Thts covr~e will explore the interrelations
African Economies between ditterent approach~s to fOOd use. The HoJXlmes 9 MWF 
Kot1 1IT3 . . This co\}ts~ will study the struggles Qf
course is open to students wtth specific interests 
. The fqcus of thts cou,rse "=tll be analyses ofthe Christians m the Third World to arncufate thetr · . , 
in anthr9pology, health and nutntion, and world
: Ulteracuoqs of the vartous. mterpal and externadl faith in theologies,, forms of .worshtp an,P
hunger tssues. 

· tact9rs whtch h11ve det>tmrned the structure an approaches. to servtce appropnace to thetr 
t: performance ot the Atncan economtes. cuftural envJronment. .
SOC 232 Social Problems 
Brinkley lOMWF
ECON 487 Urban Economics THEO 376C The Church and Social Ar.tion 
This ~ourse will provide a framework for
Leahy 2TT4 sortmg through various conceptions about soda) McNeill . . 
problems. This is thl on~-cred1t .cours~ related Jo the
GOVI' 400 Same as ECON 400. experi~nce o students betore, during,_ an atter 
the Urban P unge. No student may $tgn up torSOC 314 Sociology of Business
GOVf 409 Law and Society thi~ course who nas not already signed up for the 
Scott 1TT3

OtBrien 1MW3 . h . l . h' This course will cover (1) the ~tructure of Urban Plunge. 
This CQurse e.xam~nes .t e mterre atton.s lP 
industry, (2) the structur~ ofpccqpattons (3) the 
between I~w and ~octety .to _general and wtth!n THEO 378 The Unseen City 
?tructut:,e of the income <tistnbutton, 1¥1d (4) the
the United States m parttcurar. The class ,wdl mteractton between busmess and soctety. McNeiU 211' 4 , \!' stu~ through case sludtes how the Amencan The main. aim of this ~urse ts to devr:lop ~ 
• leg system .alters norms, allocates resources SOC 400 Same as ECON 400. critical vpderstaod.i&g the.· ~omplextty ot 
an protects mterests. reJ~tionship~. in cities an to Q.flalyze the va\ue SOC 417 SodolQgy of Urban Planning and jusfice,o: dimens~ons o the Janous strateg1e~ ~ GOVI' 410 Urban Politics Lamanna 9 MWr-· . currt;nf y.deyelopeq,to respq~ .to problems and Fuchs 1TI3. hi ....1 • f This coutse is a basic introducnon to 1,1rban posstbilittes m tfi~ unseen. ctty. Thts courfle This course will take ,n stone~ pvery1ew o sociology wtth a.n empha~is on th~ applicatton to must be pre-registered wtth the Center ~or · 4rbanizfltion and e~me the pqlittcal tnstttv· ~periential Learning, 11108 East Memonal
contemporary c1ty plannmg practtce. 
nons whtch emerge to accomQ.~ate the City s Lil>r{lfy. The.coqrse ~sumes that'students have 
unique economic an social conduions. 
parttctpated m the Urban Plunge.
The following FOUR courses will be offered at 




r 
II 
_......_ 
~ 
JR. CLASS 
BARN DANCE 

\ I 

HAYRIDE 

~ 

\ \ 
SATURDAY,. 
\ NOV. 10 9-1 
Tlckets-13.50 each -sold In dining halls or through hGII reps 
music provided by OrphGn 

tefreshments-clder, munchies, mo.rshmo.llows, o.nd other fun stuH 
... 
The Observer 
10% OFF all vitamins & health footh 
with ND-SMC ID 
HEALTH FOODS----------~ ..,______NA1,URA.L VITAMINS · 
SEARS HEALTH FOOD DEPT 


UNWERSITY PARK MALL 
6501 GRAPE RD. AT V.S. 23 SOUTH BEND 
··••······························································· 
WSND IS Looking for Gn Assistant General manager for 
•
• Public Relations. 
•
•
. 
•
• 
1­
•• • 
ThiS is a paid position
• 
. 
.• • call 7425 between ~ \ . . • •• 2-4pm for details Thursday, November 8, 1979 -page 12 
~-·· .

Obviously worried about Iran's oil export shutoff, this student h~s eone to grant lengths to be sure that his domer horn can still be heard. [Photo by Ttm McKeoJ?.hl 

• • . Democrats 
was elected Govenor, to keep candidates Ronald Reagan and
[continued from page 8) 
the office in the Democratic fold John Connally with counting and frustrate GOP comeback almost complete, Winter hadKoff, the city:s most conser­
hopes. 372,106 votes and Carmichaelvauve suJ?ervtsor. 
Brown who is married to 241,592.
Mrs. Femstein -appoi~ted. to former 'Miss America Phyllis A moderate who had beenher post after the assassmauon 
George and has criticized in the twice rejected before by conser­of Mayor George Moscone ­campaign for a jet-set life­vative Mississippians, Winternoted the large number of style, said his .big victory ov~r will head a state governmentvoters who went for other former Republican Gov. Loute which will include a recordcandidates and pitched for their Nunn proved "The mud didn:t number of blacks in its legisla­help in the runoff. 
stick ' Nunn announced hts ture.
"I want those peop~e to. know retir~ment from politics. After two years of fightingthis is a mayor who ts gomg to Virtually complete returns Cleveland's bankers and thelisten to them," she satd. 
gave Brown 553,077 votes and Democratic establishment,Koff urged his own supponers Nunn379,932. Kucinich lost to Republican Lt.
to ''Keep the faith with me the next four weeks and I'11 keep In Mississippi, William Winter gov. George V. Voinovich but 
faith with the city of San led Republican Gil Carmichael, went down swinging, blaming Francisco the next four years." who got strong backing from his his loss on the ''money 
Final returns in the mayor's national party and presidential powers.'' race gave Mrs. Feinstein 81, 115 votes and Kopp 76,784. . Things also were sull steaming in Kentucky where 
fast-food !YCOOn 1ohn Y. Brown • • . hostages 
{continued from page .5] he said . But the Tehran broadcast
• • . Miller 
cancer treatment, be returned quoted Khomeini as saying'' ~he for trial as a war criminal before U.S. government, by keepmgany talks could be held . the shah, has declared its open [continuedfrom page 5] It is the return of the shah that opposition to Iran." is being demanded by the The broadcast added, ''The
Miller said he is opposed to 
students who seized the U.S . U.S. embassy in Iran is our
tying loan guarantees to a 
Embassy and its staff on Sun­enemies' center of espionage
. . requirement that the company
\ :..................................•.•......................•.•..... 
l
I' 
The Observer Advertising Department has an opening at the position of Assistant Advertising Manll:ger. 
-Work lunch hours and afternoons
j 
l 
-Modest salary -Opportunity for advancement -Excellent business and managerial 
experience for students. 
Please contact Bob Rudy at 283-7471 or 287-2793 If you are interested in the position and want more information 
-Sophomore and Junior business .majors or those with previous related expenence are preferred 
day. The students have threat­against our sacred Islamic 
use part of the money to tssue 
ened to kill the American hos­movement. It is therefore not
additional stock for its employ­
tages if the United States possible, under any. circum­
ees. 
makes any military attempt to stances, for the spec tal repre­
"To do so could infringe on 
free them. . " 
sentattves to meet us.

the collective bargaining pro­
The United States has refused Clark and Miller met at the 
cess, among other things,'' he 
to turn the shah over to the White House late Tuesday with 
said. 
Iranians. President Carter and Secretary
However, Sen. Russell Long, 
Clark, who met with Khomeini of State Cyrus R. Vance. They
D-La., chairman of the Senate 
last ] anuary in Paris, and then boarded a U.S. govern­
Finance Committee, said that 
Miller, a Farsi-speaking former ment jer for Athens, intending
he did not think he or most 
U.S. foreign service officer, to change to a commercial plane 
senators would support a plan 
carried a messa~e from Carter for the flight to Tehran.
that did not ensure employee 
and were authonzed to discuss President Carter's instructions
stock ownership. 
ways of improving U.S. rela­to Clark and Miller were to
''I think it is the sense of the 
dons with Iran. meet with both government and 
Senate that if American busi­
However, Hod ding Carter, the religious leaders' includi~g
ness wants to receive this kind 
State Department spokesman, Khomeini, in Tehran and tn
of aid, it should not pr.ov~de 
insisted there could be no Qom, the holy city where
windfall benefits to extstmg 
negotiations regarding the Khomeini resides.
shareholders but should be 
shah. "They understand he is Asked about the possibility
shared· with employees,'' 
goin~ to stay here as long as the that the special envoys would
Long said. 
medtcal situation requires it,'' succeed in winning the freedom for the hostage Americans, the president told reporters: "We hope it will. We pray it wilL''
r----------------~
1 JUST FOR THE RECORD 1 In a parallel move welcomed by the administration, the Pal­estine Liberation Organization
I I
In the 100 Cente• 

said it was sending a delegation to Tehran to "secure the lives"1 oHers 10% oH on 1 of the American hostages. ''Anybody who can help will beI EVERYTHING I playing . a .constructiye ~ole," said Zbtgntew Brzezmski, t~eI with ID & coupon I president's national secunty advisor.
! recorda, to.pea, po.raphetnallo. .I 


• 

The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979 -page 13 


Mountaineering#5. 

-You, a faithful follower ofthiS : · ·~. less serious business. Ifyou 
are .. · space, have been a moun-going to down the mountains, .taineer1for some time w.q.-===~~ · rather thanvice versa,you must You've studied the funda­t~.n~~ --~..,. ·:"t>e confident ofyour standing. 
mentals, selected your r.-.::~~~n:.. . Between the head and the feet gear and experimented rat ~~F.====s~ ...--~-~~~~ ··~.........IDolll. _... ·-lies the area known to pros as "the with methodology. In short, :-:·.. ·:.· · · · b<:>c\Y-' Mountaineeririg you are nobody's fool. None­bodywear isusuallybased theless,you also know a little . on personal preference. knowledge is a dangerous tb.:ing·.--~ However, keep a keen So youwant tolea.rn more. eye out for one common Smart thinking. criterion Your clothes 
First,you must realize that shouldbe comfortable and once the basics of mountaineering flexible, allowing for open are mastered, it is only nuance movement, specifi.caJ.ly inthe 
which distinguishes the true ·· .. ' vicinity ofthe arms.A free 
artists from the merely adequate. . ' and responsive arm is a Therefore, attention to detail, · . mountaineer's best friend. especiallyinmattersofclotb.:ing, · . \ Certain aroessories, of is vital. .· . \ course, complement and 
Always protect the head ·The \ complete the regulation according to seasonal fluctua­look garb. Expedition flags tions. Inwinter, a warm hat to markyour territory is mandatory. (The head, after in public plares, con­all, is the chimney ofthe necting ropes for those
' 

body. Avoid cerebral heat loss-· who prefer the security
it dim.lnishes your · · of mountaineering in pbysio abilities.) tandem andback­Insummertime, packs flied with a sunvisor or a beer nuts, mugs, billed cap will · bOtt'l~ openers 
guarantee crucial and otherpara­v1sibility among 
~~~ . pha.nalia. Beyond 
the craggy-peaks. ~ . these standards, Pay particular wardrobe styles
Instructions:

regard to yOur fOOt-Insert contents ofFig. A : . range from the rustic ·gear. Shoes should tnto Fig. B. Flex Ftg. c 120~ · · to the refined And 
+n .b, transferring contentsto .
be sturdy and SliCN '.le. Fig. D. Swa.llow. . well they might, for A secure footing is mountaineers are ~ ofutmost importance. Without it, ruggedandindividual .· 
·you're asking for trouble. Point . lot,joined only by a · oforder: while mountaineering is . .common taste for pursuedfor ftm, it is neverthe-excellence. .. 
Don't just reach for a beer. Head for the mountains. 
\CAnheuser-Busch.lnc. St. Louis. Mo 
--~ ~--·---------­
r 
-..... ,·-'
f \_1 , • 
.. 
\ 
\ The Observer -Sports Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 14
\ 


\ 
~ 
\ 
) 
\ 
' 
~ 
\ 
~~-· 
I,, 
I : 
I 

~... 
(I 
l: 
~\; 
!·. 
~)r 
(. 
l 
ll 
~ 
ll 
1 
t \ 
... Murphy 
Molarity 

commissioner~ and coaches in each hall with a proposal, asking that the interhall office change the rule and allow Murphy and his teammates to contmue in the playoffs. 
Of the sixteen halls on campus, fourteen approved the proposal. The other two stated 


ACROSS 31 Bishop's 1 Pitch headdress 6 Nutty food 34 H.H. Munro
The Daily Cross-word 
for hogs 37 Slack 



TEACHERS 
• 
that they would permit the Off-Campus team to compete in the playoffs without Murphy. 
Among the fourteen halls approving the proposal was Holy Cross, who filed the original protest. ''The Holy Cross team voted,'' Murphy explained, "and the team has satd that they feel Off-Campus should represent the Central 
by Michael Molinelli 


10  Roman poet  38  Picture box  
14  Pacific  39  Friends in  
islands  Paris  
15  Turkish  40  Imitative  
general  42  "One giant  
16  Kind of  -·for man- 
star  kind"  
17  Novelist  43  With care  
Sinclair  45  Hayfield  
18  Hampered  46  Once, once  
20  Owed  47  Slant  
21  Wine  48  Altar slabs  
23  Sponsor of  50  Greek en- 
Gl shows  chantress  
24  Binges  52  Network  
26  Joshua or  56  Mecca for  
Ella  the ailing  
28  Makes ready  58  Kindles  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

Division in the interhall play­0 ffs. " 
Should the protest be upheld, Holy Cross would win the division. Holy Cross lost to Off-Campus, 28-0, in its regular season game_ 
Tom Kelly, director of non­varsity athletics, siad that his office would allow the Off­Campus team to present its 
61 Aim 22 Faulkner's 62 Dog "-Dying" 64 Fencing 25 Apostolic 
move missive 66 "Beware 27 Haphazard the-..." 29 Driver's 
67 Mild aid 
expletive 30 Napoleon 68 German city on Elba 69 Standard 32 Ages 
70 Algerian 33 Ecstatic governors 34 Epic tale 71 Palmists, 35 Final word for example 36 Political mogul .DOWN 38 Immaculate 1 Farrell's 41 Member of Lonigan Cong. 2 Baseball 44 Was first fly at something 3 Lace 48 Horseman-
or face ship 4 Self 49 Passages 5 Cavalryman 51 Incited 
of yore 53 Become 6 Dillon or aware of Helm 54 Felix of 7 Taj Mahal "The Odd 
site Couple" 8 Serapes 55 Places of 9 Minstrel bliss 
musician 56 Use a 10 Wallet item distaff 11 Tennesseean 57 Child: comb. 12 Currier's form 
colleague 59 "Do as-, .." 13 Part of a 60 Does a hay-pedestal maker's job 19 Lava's 63 Doctrine cousin 65 Avail 
·­

-·····················
•e The ND Student Players Present •• 
: STOP THE WORLD : :I WANT TO GET OFF: 
• •e
e Nov. 9,10,16,17
• •e
e Washington Hall 8pm : Admission $1.50 : 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she teaches deaf education in Thailand...ask another volunteer 
•
•••••••••••••••••••••,• 
why he works as a teacher trainer in Kenya. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language and experience another culture. Ask them: 
REGISTER NOW AT PLACEMENT OFFICE 
FOR INTERVIEWS 
FRI. NOV 16-NOTRE DAME 



''••

THURS. NOV 15-ST. MARY'S 
Au-Bowl 


~~-~............-.----...f 
case, but added that "we would be extremely reluctant to change the rule, since it has been in effect since the season began. It would take something extreme to force us to change the rule for this case.'' 
Interhall 

The men's and women's tournaments are both single elimination. Each match consists of three games (best-of three series). The pairings for these raquetball tournaments will appear each Thursday in The Observer. It is the responsibility of the participant to contac his or her opponent and set up the match in each round. (Phone numbers are listed in parenthesis below.) The results of the raquetball matches must be turned in, in person, to the lnterhall office before noon on the gollowing Wednesday. Failure to report the results to the lnterhall office will mean disqualification of both participants. Results will only be accepted if the participants have filled out the proper interhall insurance forms. After the first week of the tourna­ment, any participant who has not met the insurance requirement will be dropped. 
Due to the design of a single elimination tournament, some participants receive byes. Those participants listed as having a bye should check next Thursday's Observer for their opponent. 
Men's Raquetball 

Gerald Miller (3338) v. John Schafer (6934) Tom Philbin (1652) v. Barry Phillips (1628) Ken Schmitz (8892) v. Mark Mulligan (6428) Greg Fisher (6770) v. John Trimbach (1210) Bob McDonald (3537) v. Bob Wegener (277-0333) Terry Reagan (8375) v. Greg Butler (1166) Kevin Quinlan (6765) v. Tom Jackson (6759) Joe Krug (1601) v. Dave Yordy (3670) John Reust (1735) v. Tom TrozzoiCl {3326) Mike Schatz (1016) v. Richard Cordova {1024) John Chert (233-5524) v. Dennis Cotter (1689) Paul Stark (1582) v. Terry Finn (234)0467) Steve Dyer (8907) v. Chris Slatt (1725) Frank Dedace (3092) v. Tim Lawliss (6873) Mike Lynch (1185) v. AI Adams (1183) Don Shank (8762) v. Rob Phillips (1437) Mike Reff (4351) v. Bob Hogan (7791) Kevin Cleavey (8875) v. Mark Saunier (7816) Tom Jenson (6755) v. Kevin Young (1670) Dave Kallenreider (3558) v. Jeff Stahl (1845) Greg Kane (2256) v. Ed Looney (1398) Claude LeRose (8876) v. Ron Lorenzini (1623) Brent Buetters (1786) v. Reggy Payne (6867) Mike Regali (1579) v. Gerry Mulcahy (8321) Ken Siefert (233-6052) v. john Beck (1733) Pat Conally (1650) v. Jim MeG uinnis (8532) Jim Jenista (3265) v. Steve Krickle (277-5581) Joe Dohopoiski (3018) v. Chuck Meakin (1161) 
Players receiving byes in the second round: Kevin Gallagher John Onufer Paul Pineps Dave Esprig 
Women's Raquetball 

betsy Klug (7942) v. Barb Lach (6426) Missy Sorapure (6752) v. Julie Rice (2194) Tracy Gilliana (6717( v. Laura Leitzinger (2184) Kathy McHugh (6717) v. Martha Gallagher (6791) 

l.eclrn to be a Ski Instructor 
This 4-session work­shop, Nov. 11, 18 & Dec.2, 9 is ol'en to skiers interested 1n learning the basics ofski teaching and to uncertified in­structors wanting to im­prove their teaching capabilities. The focus of the workshop is on teaching fechmques, methodology, skill de­velopment, class handling, and other per­tinent facets ofski teach­ing related to both the ..­American and GLM method. Top graduates. will be offered teaching positions at area ski resorts either full-time or part-time. 
Call or Write: 1-616-695-3487 TED HIRSCH Instructor Workshop 925 Somerset Mishawaka, IN. 46544 

.. 
The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 15 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two da~ prior to the Issue in which the ad is run. The Obllrwr office wll accept classifieds Monday thro~h Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All ctasslfleds must be pre·pa d, either In person or through the mail.


Classifieds 
Waitress Wanted. Age 21 and over. Oriental Restaurant, 114 W. Ireland Rd.
Notices .. Tickets
Apply in person 2-5 P.M. 
Wanted (1) United Airlines discount Desperately need GA Clemson tix. Call Janie Byrne for Vice-President Commit-coupon. Call 7934. ' Sean 3114. tee sponsors Happy Hour this Friday. Time and place subject to change. Watch Wanted: 1 United discount tix. Call Pay $50 for 2 Tenn. G .A.'s. Paul 8330. for further details. Frank, 8693. 
Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year round. 9-7. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan Euro~e, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. Rd. Niles. 683·2888. All ields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Ex· 
penses paid. Sightseeing. Free info-Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. Wnte: IJC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar 
Ca. 92625. ' Need 4-6 Tennessee Tix. Call Duke, 1184. 
Need 1 student ticket for Clemson. Contact John B. 8859. 
Need 1 Clemson student or GA ticket. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Send $1.00 for your 306-page catalog of Buspersons and dishpersons needed-collegiate research. 10,250 topics listed. male or female. Need 1 Clemson student or GA ticket. Box 25097G, Los Angeles, California Apply at The Carriage House, 24460 Mark 8760. 90025. (213} 477-8226. ' Adams Road 272-9220. 
I need Clemson student tickets. Call1756 
Lyons Specialty Advertising. Badges, Female needs apartment and roommates or 6833. decals and many other types of promo-for Spring Semester. Call sm. tional materials. Call Mike G. 232-3815. Needed: 1Q-12 Clemson tix (any kind) for 
Need ride to Detroit, Friday, Nov. 9!1 beautiful sisters and friends. Call 3579 or Will share expenses. Call Mary 3650.
*Attention All Logan Volunteers* 
288-5465.
It's Carnival Red time! This Saturday, I need two G.A. Clemson tickets. CallNov. 10, we will have our annual carnival. 
Need aride to Chicago on Friday, Nov. 9. Maryeva at (SMC) 5157.
It will run from 9:00 to 11 :30 with plenty 
Call Jean at 1338.
of games to play, balloons to pop, and Need 4 G.A. Tennessee tix. Call Joecotton candy to consume. Lots of help is 
NEEDED: Ride to and from Lansing/ 232-7456.
needed on Thursday and Friday nights at 
MSU area on Nov. 9-11 and over
6:30 each night to decorate the gym. 
Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Need 5or 6tickets to N.D. -Tenn. game.
Also, if anyone has any old costume 
Please call Maria at 277-3077 after 6:00 Call 683-1359.
jewelri' to donate, please bring it on Saturday. If there are any questions or p.m. 
I need 6 Tenn. tickets. Call Russ atinformation needed, call Ed at 3479 or 
Badly need tickets to Soviets, and 277-1761 after 11 P.M.
Walter at 3066. We'll see you all on 
Clemson. Please call Bob at 283-1791.
Saturday! 
WANTED: GA tickets for any home Paying $10 Men's, $5 Women's for class 3ames. Must be two or more together.
Janie Byrne for V. P. Committee to make rings. Any condition. Will arrange all 287-3311 Danny-Joe.
official endorsements at press conference 
pick-up. Phone toll free 1-800-835-2246
tonight on campus. Shoes are optionaL 
anytime. Wanted 1 G.A. or student ticket for
Special guest appearance by Skippy the Clemson -Mark 8455.
Snowball, provided snowfall is in mind. 
Needed: Ride to Detroit area on
As usual, time and place are subject to 
November 9 or 10. WHI share expenses. Desperately need 2 GA tickets to
change. Watch for further details. 
Call 284-5335. Clemson! Please call 7831. 
--·­
Lost&Found 
Desperately need a ride to/from North I need two GA tickets to the Clemson Jerse~ Thanksgi~ing. Share· expenses football game, please. x6522. and g1ve you a live Springsteen tape. 
Mike 7289. Clemson GA's Many needed: Groups together or at least In pairs; Call CollectLOST: Grandfather's Movado watch, 
Need ride to Va., D.C., Md. area for any day after 9:00P.M. [716] 586-8690.
alligator band, sometime "Navy" Satur-

Thanksgiving break. Call Ann 4-1-4673.
day. Great sentimental value. Please call Bourgeois, western, capitalist father
(41)5364. REWARD. 
Hey New Jerseyans: Anyone going home wants to see Notre Dame beat the 
for Thanksgiving? I have ride home. Soviets. Please sell me two G/A's. CallIt would be greatly appreciated if anyone 
Need ride back out to SMC. Please call 6766 -ask for Mary.
knowing of the whereabouts of 2 cheer-Angie 4-1-5465.
leading jackets please contact the Office Help!! Desperately need 2 GA Clemson
of Student Activities. 
Be paid for what you like to do the most. Tix! Call Susan 4-1-4796. 
Free skiing. Become an instructor at
Lost: Gold ring with black stone. Coyle 
Royal Valley Ski Resort, Buchanan, MI. I need student tickets to Clemson. PleaseHigh School 1957. Extreme Personal 25 mi~. from N~tre Dame. No teaching call Ker. at 1821.
Value. Reward. Please call Karen. 
expenence requrred. Deadline for first
18163. 
training session Friday, 11-9-79. Call, Need one or more Tennessee tix-call Jim South end, 256-2885 or 1-616-695-3847. at 6802.
Lost Green spiral notebook in Business Building on Wednesday, Oct. 31. Call 
Need ride to Chicago area on Nov. 9. Call Need two Tennessee tix. Call 3322 orMike at 6866. 
Jean at 1338. 3324. 
Lost: 1979 silver class ring. Initialed 
AMS, blue stone. Please call Ann at Need 10 GA tix to Clemson game. Call (SMC) 4349.
4-1-5282. 
For Sale 
After Inventory Discovered: Desperately need several GA's for
One United Discount Ticket ($40 ). Call
Lost: last spring a gold necklace with Clemson. Call 6747.
Joe 3598.
diamond pendant and a gold flower-linked bracelet. 
One-way United plane ticket to N.Y.'s
Lost: Thursday, Oct. 18, navy short-Friends coming up. Need two tickets for
LaGuardia airport. Must be used before
waisted jacket. Clemson game. Please call Kit 4762
Dec. 15 by a girl. Only $50. ·Call Patty
Lost: Friday Oct. 19, royal blue Lacoste (SMC).
2278.
sweater in Ladies room of Grace Hall. 
Please contact Cammy #4489. 
Desperately need four Tenn. tix. Call
For Sale: United Airlines 1/2 price
·--lee at 1738 or 1697 
coupon call 8368. 
Would you believe that we have knownTip the bartender at Goose's tonight! 
each other for two months now? In fact, they have been the best two months of myFRIDAY NIGHT LIVE! REGINA HALL'S life. I'm looking forward to many more toCOFFEEHOUSE OPENS THIS FRIDAY 
follow.
9-1. GREAT ENTERTAINMENT FOR MJNONLY 50 CENTS. FREE DRINKS AND MUNCHIES! 

Phil... To the most moral guy I know.
Attention Brilliant and Beautiful Ladles-
Guess Who?
3fine gentlemen need dates to Morrissey f~rmal this ~riday night. Drugs and ~d Mr. Kent goes to Washington. We'retrmes supplied. If adventurous, call 2 · so proud of you!

and ask for Chris, Matt or Tim. 

Your Dependents Need ride to Minneapolis lOr Thank~ If. ~ "i:t . ­
-

giving. Please call Mary Ann at 4-1-4347. i:rr"'•au t~Y= ave you;Ka~~P 
Mr. Ver Berkmoes: 
Fag,Be good and e~oy the day -now that it 

Is it true whats written on the bathroomhas finally arriv . Beware between the 
of Regina Hall? No wonder you're so
hours of 6and 8 (It's agood time to study 

popular! (But what about Howard?)
they say -or sleep). 
Love 'n' hugs,Love, Shindu
"the $Mrt blond" Pal,
AHOY SAILORS Thanks for Sunday.

The Sailing Club is looking for sailors 
Love,who have any big boat racing experience. 
Pal
We need crew to race Lu~"f 44 ft. at Annapolis. Call Phil 8732. 

My friends on 3rd floor Regina North, Ellen and Anne! You are so nice! Thanks
CLASSIFIED ADS 

for everything. Love,Payment: All classifieds must be Kellypre-paid, either In penon or through the 
mail. 

Mary Barrett, Happy Birthday to everybody's favoriteLost Green American Congress notebook 
Deadline: All classified ads must be received by 1:00 P.M. the day prior to the Issue In which the ad Is to be run. The  RA!  Neil  
Observer office will accept classlfleds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m.  Paula Shea growth.  is  the  result  of  stunted Mike G.  
WSND AM64 $1000 Giveaway. Win a trip to the N D post-season bowl  Moonie: Hope you're sober enough to read this.  
~a me. aily prizes given away.  Stop. Mission is to have a bizarre 19th birthday. Stop. Will not let PO's  
Tues: Pair Eagles tickets University Park Mall Theater Pass  interfere.  Stop.  Have a good one! Bernice  l  
$30 Steak and Ale dinner for 2  Coach,  
$15 Gift Certificate Michael's Hair Care Golden Bear pancake dinner Eddies Restaurant dinner  People who are Athletic deserve a personal. P.S. Keep counting ..  Supporters Barb  
Wed: University Park Mall Theater Pass Village Inn Pizza Ponderosa Steak dinner  Happy Birthday to Ann Weber! Don't you agree that people born on Nov. 8 if nothing else. have nice blue eyes!  
$15 Gift Certificate-Michael's Hair Care Center Golden Bear Pancake dinner Eddies Restaurant dinner  DEAR SCARECROW,  Love and Kisses, Ryan  I  
'  
Kevorkian, 232-1193 or ERA -Equity happy Birthday Ryan!


in the coat racks outside A-line. Please 
return the notes; the final is cumulative. 
Call Bob at 8777. 
Lost-Blue jacket with white N.D. 
insignia at USC game, gold watch was in 
pocket. If found call Joe at 233-6024. 
Lost on 11/1: A gold cross and chain. Great sentimental value. Owner in mourning. Marie 8028 
LOST:2 large bile duffle bags, stolen 
from car at South Carolina game, containing clothes. Desperately needed. $ Reward. Call 284-4975. 
Lost: At BP's Happy Hour on Friday night. Ladies gold Caravella watch with a bracelet band. Could have been left in someone's pocket. Has sentimental value. Call1284. 
For Rent 
Live Free for November! N.D. Apt. for 
Rent. Call Mark 1215 or 233-6284 after 10 
P.M. 77.50/mon. 
Need Tenn. tix. Call 41-4101 -Tracy. 
Need up to 15 Tennessee GA tix. Will pay $12 each. Call Diane 7906. 
Need 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles concert. Please call 232-4462 after 5:30. 
MONGOLIAN DOG SLED TEAM CROS­SING THE COUNTRY STOPPING IN SOUTH BEND ON THE 17TH. NEED GA CLEMSON TICKETS AND 1 CASE OF ALPO. MICK -8212. 
Need at least 4 GA and 4 student Clemson tickets. Call 3328. Please!! 
-

Needed. Two Clemson tickets. Please call Diane at 6874. 
Please sell me 4 GA Tennessee and Clemson tickets. Call 277-5261. 
Need 2 G.A. Clwmson tix. Please help. Call 4-1-4280. 
I need 2 Clemson GA's 4579. 
I need 2or 3 GA Clemson tickets. Please call Dave 8782. 
Comics at Discount-new and old. DC, Marvel, Warren. 287-6920 evenings and weekends. 
Free Catalog: Avon jewelry, cosmetics, Christmas ~ifts for women, men, and children, 2 7-6920 evenings. 
United air ticket, 50 percent off. Call Rick 1797. 
FOR SALE: Two L78-15 belted snow tires. $50. Call Steve 8661 or 1432. 
4678-14 Radial tires (14"} Low mileage. Call John at 1689. 
For Sale -goose-down reversible coat with hood in excellent condition. Worn for one winter but am allergic to feathers. Must sell. Best oaer. Call Mike 1649. 
Konica Auto S2 Camera. 1:18, 1/500. Not SLR -Ext. 4234. 
FOR SALE: TWO UNIT~D 1/2 fare coupons. Call 272-9384. 
Moving., Must sell. Super Savings! Couch and 2 matching armchairs; dining room table, single bed, floor lamp. Price negotiable. Call234-8643after7P.M. or anytime Saturday. 
HEY GUYS: LeMans Hall invites you to party at Giusepros Saturday, Nov. 10-9 
p.m. · 2 a.m. orne Indulge $2.00. 
Questions answered free of charge. Good buy! Dial 'OBUD'. 
M.E.O.T.O. Chapter after chapter, test after test, dinner before, dance after, time Is filled 
by  work  and  special  friends.  Keep  
plowing on.  
ME  

Happy 21st Blrthda' Mar. You're the Bast. Have Faith! ­

Subways and fossilized plants, Rabbits and little red ants, Dante's Hell, An oyster shell; Might attend this Sat. dance. Beaux Arts Ball, Nov. 10, 9 pm, $3.00. Theme • UNDERWORLDS. At the Architecture Building. 
I 

Come to the Autograph Party for ABeCedary! 
3:00 • 5:00p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
What's up, doc? Dial 'OBUD' 
Ryan-
I crave you. I dream of/cou at night. Your face is my moon. our eyes, my stars. Your hat collection, my lure. Other than that, you're not such a bad Come enjoy an evening with Uvlngston Taylor Wednesday, Nov. 14. 
guy.  Congratulations  on  surviving  19  
years.  I'II pray for you.  
Yours devotedly  
in Notre Dame,  
Scoop  


SPECIAL: 

Today is Bill D.'s 19th birthday. Call 1584 and wish his hot dog many more to come. 
Ryan, 
~riane Schallwig has promised to chug cider. Jean Menoni is going, even though she is allergic to hay. Bob Gerth is going even though he's an accounting throat. Even Maureen McKenna, profes­sional pre-med will be there' Don't miss the barndance and hayride for Juniors Sat. Nov. 10 at the Diamond D ranch ­please get your tix now in the dining halls! 
Dear Lake Lawn Lodgers: This weekend will be the balls'!! Rumor has it that Ressurrection Mary will be lurking in and about Tom and Michelle's room. While Clyde repeatedly retorts, 
"Mary Phil we love you dearly, but there ain't no way you're going to float!" In turn the Sister Mary Ellen Green Ma­
chine Automobile will  flow in  Terry's  
room.  
Lovingly,  
Mr. Kevil  

To our favorite MANORITES: You've "wormed" your way into our hearts. Our "hats" are off to you! 
The ladies from ~P 

Happy 19th birthday! (Gee, I almost forgot it!) You've lived a hard life, but keep it up --one of these days you' II get it right ... if you can stay awake! Live it up. It's younast year to be a wild and crazy teenager. 
Neil 

P.S. Broken any parietals lately? (Yuk, yuk!) What a legend!! 
Mrs. Sternberg and this year's Crown staff, Sorry it has taken me so long to write. 
I've been  busy.  Hope you enjoy the  
paper.  
Deirdre  

Carolyn, 

Dan and I have an appointment with you soon. You know how we 'rock' for your body. 
Love ~a, at 

Many Thanks to Jup, Den, Col, Nim, and 
Sus,  You  guys are,  like,  so  bizarre!  
Really, Ya 'll are terrif ic!  
Love, Betsy  

TAH 

How yummy are your pork chops?
Invest in yo·urself instead of a landlord! THE RICH MAN
Wanted 
Thurs: University Park Mall theatre pass

Excellent investment opportunities avail-
Personals 
Villaae Inn Pizza

able now in duplex and triplex real estate.
Need ride to Chicago this Friday. Must $10 ift Certificate· Bottom Half Hi Mike,
Your tenants will make your mortgage Guess Who?
leave sometime between 12:00 and 2:00. 
payments while you live free. Call today
Chicago loop or any Chicago suburb is Happlc Birthday Ann Weber -Would we Armando's Haircut & 1 bottle shampoo
to learn the rest of the advantages: Joyce
fine. Will share expenses $$$. Please ever orget you Pan? Golden Bear pancake dinner
call 232·7314. Eddies Restaurant dinner
RealtY Assoc. 256-0263. 
.' . . ,. .....
. 


r­
~ 
-
\ 
~ 
~ 
\' 
(, 
\ 
\ \ 
\ " 
-~ 
' ~ 
., 
~ ~ 
,, 
\· 
v 
·, 
,_, 
I 
'• 
., 
1/ 
>I 
\, 
\ 
' 
~ 
i. 
,';) 
-~ 
·~ 
~ 
~ 
i\ 
' 
·J ~ 
~ 
i1 

:j \i 
~ 
~ 
11 
\ l 
\ \ ' 
~~ ' 
'·· ' 

\', 
(. 


Thursday, November 8, 1979-page 16 
In Murphy controversy 

0-C questions interhall rule 
by Mark Perry earned a varsity letter during it thenL Sports Editor his sophomore year, serving as "I don't think that I should starting quarterback for most of come here and not be able to 
Because of a violation of the season. · play football. You have to start interhall rules concerning Murphy played for Off­over academically and socially,former varsity athletes, the Campus all of last season, and and I think it's tragic that we Off-Campus team may be helped organize the team this can't start anew athletically."forced to forfeit most of its year, along with Steve Wolf. In addition to getting the rule 
games this season, which will ''I did not know about that changed, Murphy said that prevent the team from entering rule, and I have admitted that Off-Campus is trying to get the the playoffs, which begin next all week," Murphy said. "I rule put tnto effe€t this year, so week. saw a copy of the rules prior to that Off-Campus will be By a vote of 3-2, a committee the season, but I didn't feel I allowed to compete in the 
of athletic commissioners, had any reason to question my playoffs. "I think that it's 
selected from the residence eligibility. I am guilty, and the a joke for us to work as hard as halls, upheld a protest filed by protest vote should have been we did this year, and then not Holy Cross Hall on Nov. 2 5-0. be able to compete in the 
concerning the eligibility o.f ''What we are fighting for playoffs because we had to Dave Murphy, coach and quar­right now is to try and change forfeit the games we won,''terbac;k of the Off-Campus the rule," Murphy continued. Murphy said. team. "We feel the rule is a bad one, In an attempt to gain support
Because . Murphy has been and is unjust to students who for its cause, the Off-Campusdeclared ineligible, Off­transfer here. If I had known team went to the athletic Campus would have to forfeit about the rule before the 
~ll the game which he played season, I would have protested 
lfl. 
Representatives from Off­Campus will be all0wed to present their case to the inter­

National League names Sutter 
hall office this morning in an attempt to get the ruling changed. 

as 1979 Cy Young winner 
Interhall rules prohibit students who have earned 

"In the National League,varsity letters at Notre Dame or CHICAGO (AP)--Reliever where there is no designatedan other college or university Bruce Sutter, whose split­hitters, a bullpen can figure infrom competing in that sport in fingered fastball saved 3 7 about 130 games a year,''
interhall athlettcs. games last season for his Sutter said. "I think that may
Murphy transferred to Notre Chicago Cub teammates and Dame last year after two years tied a National League record in be one reason relievers are a 
little more ~cognizable."
at John Carroll University. the process, yesterday was Niekro finished second with 66While at ] ohn C:arroll, he named winner of the NL Cy 
Young A ward for 1979. points, J.R. Richard of the Astros was third with 41 points; 
''I was shocked. I really followed by Tom Seaver of the thought ] oe Niekro would get Cincinnati Reds, 20; Pittsburgh it," he told reporters in Chi­Pirates reliever Kent T ekulve, cago. "When you win an award 14, and Phil Niekro of the 
like this it's not really one man, Atlanta Braves, who was sixth hy John Smith move on to the NCAA Champ­Central Collegiate Champion­but the entire team. with three points. Sports Writer ionships in Bethlehem, Pa. on ships. "Individual honors are fine," Sutter credited the arrival on 
~he campus of Lehigh Univers­Coach]oe Piane has maintain­he added, "but I would trade it May 23 of former New York All the experimenting is over. Ity. ed throughout the season that in for a World Series ring. ' ' Yankee Dick Tidrow with The Notre Dame cross country The Irish .have been very his young team had a lot of Sutter, who came withm one "taking a lot of th work load off team c~ ·not· look if.4'ast_ t~ ~npredictable in this year's potential, but to this point it has save of the major league record my arm. Because Dick was able weekend. No matter how well it competition. After a slow start remained mostly as potential. set byJohn Hiller of the Detroit to work as much as he did, I trains, it has to excel in real in the Notre Dame Invitational, District IV includes the states Tigers in 1973, narrowly was able to keep my strength 
X-Country te_am faces true test 
. . . 
competmon. they rebounded with a strong of Minnesota, Illinois, defeated ] oe Niekro of the through the season.'' 
Saturday, the District IV Cross performance against Loyola of Wisconsin, Indiana, Michigan, Houston Astros in votin~ by the Sutter appeared in 62 games Country Championships are Chicago. They then finished and Ohio. Schools from the Big Baseball Writers Association of for the Cubs, who ended the being held in East Lansing, second in the Big State meet Ten (including Iowa despite the America. season in fifth place in the ·NL Mich. The four top teams wtll bu.t dwindled b~dly in the state of Iowa being in a differ­The 26-year old right-hander East division after fading from 
ent district), Mid-American earned 10 of the 24 first-place contention late in August. Conference, and all Independ­ballots to become the second He compiled a 6-6 record and a ents from the six-state area will NL reliever and the third in 2.23 earned run average in 101
Hoffberger explains refusal 
compete. baseball history to win the innings, striking out 110 batters Piane expects the most com­prize. Mike Marshall of the Los and walking just 32 in becoming petition from schools like Angeles Dodgers in 1974 and the second member of the Cubs 
to withdraw first -pitch invite 
Wisconsin, Indiana, Michigan, Sparky Lyle of the New York to win the Cy Young. Ferguson and Illinois State. Indtana Yankees took the American Jenkins won it for Chicago in BALTIMORE (AP)--Baltimore aware of the rule and invited finished ahead of the League honor in 1977. 1971. 
Orioles President Jerold C. Gov. Harry R. Hughes to throw second-place Irish in the Big Sutter also received stx Sutter said his major disa~;>­Hoffberger said Wednesday he out the first ball at the second State meet. Both Illinois State second-place votes and four pointment was "not being m refused to "uninvite" Mary­Orioles-Pittsburgh Pirates and Michigan tallied fewer third-place votes for a total of the playoffs. It's great to get 
land's governor, a former minor game at Memonal Stadium. points than the Irish in both the 72 points, with five points individual awards, but baseball league pitcher, to throw out the Even after Kuhn's office ad­Notre Dame Invitational and in awarded for first-place is still a team sport and I want first ball at a World Series vised him of the rule, Hoffber­the Central Collegiate Champ­mention, three points for to play on a World Series game despite a threat of a fine. ger said he refused to tell ionships. second and one for third. team.'' 
''If we run up to our capabili­

Hoffberger was fined $2,500 Hughes about the possible 
ties, we'll have an outside

by Commissioner Bowie Kuhn penalty. ' 
for breaking a league rule. "He wanted me to uninvite chance of makin~ the finals,'' said a hesitant Ptane. 


Sports Briefs __
''The rule said the baseball the governor and I suggested to 
club  involved  in  the  World  the commissioner that 1f he felt  The seven runners Piane has  
Series had the right to suggest names to be the first ball throwers, but that the final decision was up to the commis­sioner,'' Hoffberger said in a telephone interview from Kan­sas City. "The other part of the rule said movie actresses and actors, politicians and people of note would not be acceptable to the commissioner except in extenuating~ circumstances,'' added Hoffberger, who was owner of the American League champions until Nov. 1.  that strongly that the governor not appear that he so advise the governor,'' the feisty club pres­tdent said. After a week of negotiations, Hoffberger said he decided he would not renege on the invita­tion because Hughes is "a personal friend of mine, a great governor, the first citizen of Maryland and a former pitcher for Easton over on the Eastern Shore. We are dependent on him for many, many things." "I believe those circumstances  nominated for Saturday's 10,000-meter (6.2 miles) race are]ohn Filosa, Tony Hatherly, Carl Bicicchi, Aldo Bartolini, Mark Novak, Chuck Aragon, and Matt Cato. Filosa and Hatherly have been running extremely well as of late and are expected to carry much of the load. 1be Insh definitely have a tough battle in store for them, but the race may prove bene­ficial to the Irish as most teams are not accustomed to the longer distances.  Interhall office to hold referee clinic A clin.ic for all those signed up as interhall basketball referee~ will be held on Tuesday, November 13. Persons attending should report to the Interhall office in the ACC at 4:25p.m. Hanner, Off-campus meet for crown The interhall soccer championship will be decided this Friday November 8. The game w111 be held at Stepan Center Field at 4:30p.m. and wtll feature Flanner vs. Off Campus.  
Hoffberger  said  he  was  not  





