• • . Isis Gallery -page 7 
VOLUME XIV* NO. 20 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1979 
200,000 jam New York 
for nuclear demonstration 
NEW YORK (AP)--Up to Before heading for the 200,000 anti-nuclear protesters Vernon, Vt., plant, the Vermont gathered yesterday in Manhat-Yankee Decommissioning Al­tan to hear big-name rock stars liance, a coalition of groups and activists such as Jane from Massachuetts, New Fonda and Ralph Nader in the Hampshire and Vermont, held largest such demonstration in. a rally in Brattleboro. Spokes-the nation's history. men for the group said the 
Police at the six-hour rally purpose of the plant demonstra­sponsored by the Sept. 23 Rally tion was to get the issue of Committee of the Musician,; nuclear power into the courts. United for Safe Energy said by "Vermont Yankee should be late afternoon up to 200,000 had shut down forever,'' said Karen gathered. The largest previous Remmer, 20, of Marlboro. nuclear rally was held in Wash-"They're refueling a plant ington in May and attracted that can't even pass its own 100,000 persons. safety requirement." 
The New York rallywas one of In Omaha, Neb., a protest as many as a dozen being held sponsored by the Breadbasket durin~ the weekend from Alliance, a group of 80-100 Washmgton State to Vermont, western Iowans and Nebra­ltwasthemajor public event in a skans, was expected to be the week of concerts, climaxed largest of several in the state Sunday by major rock 'n' roll yesterday. performances in an effort to On the West Coast on taise money for political activity Saturday, a cluster of balloons and opponents of nuclear was released at an anti-nuclear power. . rally in Bremerton, Wash., to Vegas Ferguson dn"vesforextra Purdue Saturday. Game story 
Supported by several hundred show which way the wind would yards in a losing effort against on page 12 protesters shouting their sup-blow radiation if there were an port, more than 130 accident at a proposed waste demonstrators blocked the storage site at the Puget Sound main gate of the Vermont Naval Shipyard. About 200 

Volunteers set WHC record
Yankee nuclear power plant at persons attended the rally Vernon on Sunday during the sponsored by the Crabshell plant's annual refueling. Alliance, a loose coalition of by Tom Koegel Mre than 1250 students volun­dents, the Coalition anticipates Vermont State Police said they individuals and groups opposed teered for the Wednesday fast, funds in excess of $10,000 from 
A record number of Notre
arrt>stt>d 167 persons on mis-to nuclear power. in which students/ive up their the Dining halls alone up from a 
Dame Students who have voll­lunch to help fee the hungry
demeanor unlawful trespass About 100,000 persons total of $2,102 that was raised 
unteered to fast one day a week
charges. Officers said some of gathered in Washington in May and to experience the pain of last semester. 
may raise over $10,000 for the hunger themselves. The dining
those arrested had to be drag-for an anti-nuclear rally, the The number of participating
World Hunger Coalition, ac­hall donates the cost of the meal 
ged to waiting buses for the tnp nation's largest such gathering. students this semester showed to Brattleboro's Municipal Rally leaders at news cording to Michael Stegman, the students forego to the an increase of 1000, from the Building for processing. conferences earlier in the week coordinator for the Coahtion. Coalition, which distributes the 250 that participated last sem-
This money will be used to help money to various approved
Protest leaders said another had called on President Carter ester. Stegman attributes 
feed undernourished _people charities throughout the world. much of this increase to the
demonstration would be held to begin an immediate phaseout both in the world and 10 the Due to the tremendous in-lunch-time fast this semester,
today. [continued on page 8]
"We are here to propose a local area. crease in participating stu-rather than the fast of dinner 
conversion program from a ================================================================================== used last year. Stegman be­
lieves more students are willingnuclear to an non-nuclear socie-
TJ''est Germans uncover 
ty, community by community, J' J' ~ to give up their lunch than their state by state, region by region, dinner. to an age of solar energy and The dining halls donate the r~newable resources,'' said cost of one meal, $ .75, for Hayden, a well-known anti-war every student that signed up to

banned WWII explosives 
activist of the 60's, in a briefing fast for every week that they
HAMBURG West Germany Tabun, which Hitler was sa1d to ous materials might be stored
to the press pefore addressing fast. The dming halls deter­
the crowd. (AP) -The discovery of at least have considered using against at the site. mine whether or not a student 500 tons of World War II the Allies in the last years of the Officials said some 500 tons is fasting by their computer
Fonda stated that the rally was 
vintage explosives and lethal war but did not, for fear the of explosives, poison and dead­
intended ''to warn people of the system. 
danf;ers of nuclear energy." gas at an abandoned chemical Allies would retaliate with an ly gas had been recovered so far Should a student who is on the Fo lowing the briefing, the plant forced 600 persons to airborne gas attack. Tabun now and expected the search to be fast list go to lunch on Wednes­t:vacuate thetr homes in Ham-is internationally banned. · completed soon. It was be­day, their card would be re­
couple walked to the open-air 
stage and Hayden congratulat­burg yesterday. West Germany's newspapers lieved that military experts plan jected by the computer. At this The cache included canisters are calling the Hamburg affair to try to neutralize the gas and
ed the crowd for what he called, point, the student can eat, in 
of a nerve gas that was made "the country's greatest post-then bury the materials in a
one of the b.est demonstrations which case the Coalition would 
for Adolf Hitler's Nazi arsenal war enviromental scandal" and secure area. get no more money from theever held in the n arion. 
Hayden said it reminded him of but now is_ banned by interna-demand to know how many dining halls for him for the rest tiona! treaties. officials knew of the cache. Besides the Tabun and· other 
the anti-war rallies during the of the semester. Or, the Vietnam years. Authorities have been chemical weapons from World student can opt to continue his one of the first scheduled searching the area for a week, In an interview with the War II, the cache included fast, in which case a notice will speakers to address the crow retrieving the deadly materials, magazine Der Spiegel, Martin British and American explo­be given by the card checkers to 
was Bella Abzug, a former but suspended the operation Leuschner, the last owner of the sives and tank ammunition that the Dining Hall administration Saturday beoouse of a brisk chemical plant, claimed the evidently were stored during explaining the situation.
congresswoman who said the 
wind that ·could have spread West German military and the post-war occupation, offici­Stegman is quick to point out,anti-nuclear movement "canm 
begin to develop (a certain any escaping gas across a Hamburg police knew what als said. however, that raising money is political influence in the next residential neighborhood in this materials were being stored at Hider's former minister of only half the goal of the city of 2 million, West Ger­the site. The firm was founded armament~, Albert Speer, said Wednesday fast. "The fast,"
presidential election), provided 
It deals with the broad ques­many's largest. Although the )n 1923 and disbanded two that toward the end of the war, Stegman said, "is a means of wind died down yesterday, Hitler had considered using
tions if the oil and nuclear years ago. raising student awareness a­
energy lobbies" in this country. officials decided to evacuate the There has been no official Tabun. Speer wrote in the bout poverty. It is important "It's time for the American area. government response to this newspaper, Welt am Sonntag , that the students real_ly feel people to say no more... Are Investigation of the' storage allegation, but the city has set that Propaganda Minister Josef hunger so they can identity with depot at the former Stolzenberg up an investigatory committee. Goebbels urged Hitler to prove the undernourished people of
you going to allow the oil and 
Chemical Works began Sept. 6 a the use of Tabun because the
the nuclear lobbies to take 'At news conference yester­the world." 
over?'' she asked the crowd after a cache of hand grenades day, an opposition politician Allies had no defense against it. The coalition is run by 130 which shouted: "No!" and one exploded kllling an called for the resignation of ·But Hider rejected the su~­students who are divided into 11-year-old and injuring his Mayor Hans-Ulrich Klose, say­gestion at the urging of hts
Others on the agenda included six committees. The research 
performers Peter Seeger, Gra­13-year-old brother. ing the police and fire depart­generals for fear the British and committee looks for charity ham Nash. Tom Paxton. Bonnie The cache included eight ments had been warning city Americans would retaliate with [continued on page 8]Ra~t, and Jackson Browne grenades of the lethal gas officials since 1975 that danger-airborne gas attacks. 



News in brief 
Hog rustlers take piggies 'to market ' 
(AP) • For some hog farmers in· mount of thefts" of hogs, he 
north central Indiana, it's getting harder to bring home the bacon. That's because hog rustlers are taking the little piggies to market before the brmers can. Robert Fox, investigations supervisor for Indiana State Polin·. said live­stock thefts are up all across the state. But Whtte, Clinton, and Boone counties are ex­periencing "an abnormal a-said. The largest heist was in Boone County, where thieves made off with 100 hogs. The smallest was in Clinton Coun· ty, where 16 purebred gilts were taken from a rural feed­lot. Police repot t 1hat the smallest pi g·stolen weighed in at 3 pounds. The largc~t tipped the scales at 350 pounds. 
Egypt seeks aid increase 
_from U.S. 
ISNAILA Egypt (AP) · Presi­dent Anwar Sadat Indicated yesterday that Egypt would seek additional U.S. military and economic aid, but a top 
U.S. foreign aid official who met with him said a massive incre1.~c is ''unlikely because rf a tight dome~.tic budget. Sadr.t did not reveal the stze of 
l the 1hcreasc Egvr t sought, 
but !>aid "ir1 du~ t i rtl(' tht~ will 1 he dedared. '' He previou·:ly I has said F gypt needs as much 
ae $15 bil!10n iu construction ' aid over the next five years. I Douglas Benet, head of the , U.S. Agency for International 
Development, did not rule out aid increases to both Egypt and Israel. But he indicated the increases would be nc . where near the mutibillion­dollar figures the two coun­tries have hinted at. The United States is now providing Egypt about $1 billion a year in economic aid, plus $1.5 billion in military assistance over the next three years. Egyptian officials hav~ indi­cated Egypt needs up to SlO billion to refit its military, which is equipped with aging and obsolete Soviet hardware. 

LiJw temperatures support cooling trend 
WEST LAFAYETTE lnd (AP) . The pattern of frigid temperatures which character· ized the past two winters in the East and the Midwest is likelv to continue into the year 2000, a Purdue University professor says. Ernest M. Agee, a professor of Geosci­ences, said he believes the earth · or at least the Northern Hemisphere · is in the depths 

Weather 
Sunny and plea'-;t •t to . day. HiJ?h in the l,.w to mid 70s. Fair to night Low of a cooling trend that could produce a climatic shift suffici­ent to reduce a~ricultural pro­duction. Last wtnter, he-said, the lower Great Lakes froze entirely for the first time since records have been kept. The Ohio River froze over for the third straight winter · an occurrance that is unprece­dented in the 20th century. 
111 the low 50s. Pardy cloudy Tuesday. High in the low to mid 70s. 


CamP-_u_s-----4 
7:30 pm 
6:45pm 
8:00 pm 
8: J5 I 
FILM, "Father Panchali", WASHINGTON HALL $1. Sponsored by ND/SMC SPDR 
ROSARY daily at the GROTTO 
LECTURE, ''Gerald Manley Hopkin5. Religious & Poet," Vimla l\kr>llatl, I of Lancaster. GALVIN AUD. ~pon ,<.lfC·' hy the ND English Journal & The·,;, 'I!~ l •ept. 
(()!\ r·. T, Mahoney & Noonan, Flute and Guuar. LIBRARY AUD. 
~ ,·.,_ 11...... •,~.."'..' ·' r.,.• ~-" , ,., ,. ••,........ .. .... ~ 
\i·"~~ta11~.:...-a~...t.i.ai:a~....:i..:i:L-Il-'tt~•··aJ:.a:.~•~·i .~~-~~·~:t-i.,,~·~·~·, 
Monday, September 24, 1979 -page 2 
$70,000 goal set 
United Way Campaign begins 
by Tricia Beaujean 
Over $70,000 is the goal of this year's Notre Dame-Saint Mary's United Wav Campaigp, scheduled to begin' next montb. 
"Each year our aim is to increase participation in the program. The faculty and staff participation last year was sli~htly over fifty percent,'' satd Ronald Weber, chairman of this year's drive. 
Weber, an-American Stu· dies professor, stated that over· all the financial goal of both the student and faculty campaign is $70,800, a seven percent in­crease from last year. He noted that last year's goal of $66,000 was reached 
Contributions by faculty and staff will be made throug3 pledge cards which will be sent to them the first week in October. They will have the option of signing the fledge cards so the amount o their contribution will be deducted from their payroll checks, or 
Erratum 
Ticket packets for this year's Homecoming weekend will go on sale tomorrow, not today as reported i~ Friday's Observer. 

-.. 
:s~on mte.t:_ ested in obtaininc Mexican money 'or the semor trip to Aculpoco, should go to their respective Student Activities office on eirher campus and fill out the appropriate forms. Forms are 1\Vailable beginning today throu~~ Friday, Sept. 28. There is a fifty dollar minimum and no maximum. Money will be due when t~e form is filled out. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor:Margaret 
Kruse Asst. Night Editor: Darrell Nolan Copy Editor: Lynne Daley Layout Staff: Hilary Clement News Edt'tor: Mike Lewis, Ellen Buddy Editon'al Layout:)oseph Whitley Rodriguez Features Layout: K. Con­nelly Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Paula Shea, Beth W1llard, Mary Beth Budd, Micheline Santello EMT: Michelle Kelleher Proofreader: Mike Onufrak ND Day Editor: Bob Berno­ski SMC Day Editor: Lisa Stanczak Guest Appearances: Ryan 
The Observer [USPS 598 9201 Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year [$10 per semesterj from The Observer. P. D. box 
0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. In· diana 46556. 
The Observer is a·member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
:t-:< 
mailing a contribution to the 
United Way. 
A series of meetings for staff 
members, including a movie 
depicting United Way objec­
tives, is being planned for the 
same week. Posters have 
already been put up around 
campus to promote Uniteo 
Way. Letters from Fatl.er Hesburghand deans will soon he mailed out urging faculty and staff members to support and assist the annual drive, Weber 
explained. 
Although United Way is a 
national organization, the funds 
collected are distributed to 
local, county-wide agencies. 


Ir-----mrrFormr&cORo1 
~ In the 100 Center offers I 
1 • 10% off on I
I 
EVERYTHING I I with ID & coupon 
I 
RECORDS, TAPES, paraphernalia .I


L---------------­
FORMAL TIME IS AROUND THE CORNER 

Weber noted that the Red Cross Blood Program, the Volunteer Nurse Association, Alcoholism Council, and Big Brothers and Sisters are among the 33 ser­vice and charny organizations supported by United Way. 
Weber explained that Stu· dents each year run a separate campaign, but that the monies collected all go to the same general drive. 
The campaign will continue through October, and Weber hopes to have all pledge cards in before the end of October. The official conclusion of the national campaign is Nov. 8, he added. 

The Observer Monday, September 24, 1979 ~ page 3 
Former SMC student opens lecture series 


by Katie Gzlligan 

Denise Cavenaugh, a 1964 graduate of Saint Mary's, opened a series of lectures on "College to Career Days, 1979," last night. Her talk focused on the aspects of a liberal arts education that are beneficial in the business and professional world. 
According ro Cavenaugh, a liberal arts education allows for a "capacity to learn and grow." 
en,and negotiate, yet express opinions where appropriate.· "They should learn to build goal agreements, working on the process, rather than the method," she added. 
According_to Cavenaugh, con­ceptual skills are the most important asset an employee can possess. Such knowledge will enable the employee to predict what needs to be done, and when, as well as coping with that which requires imme­
because such a choice allows diate action. The conceptual for other alternatives in the skill' itself is abasic one and can future. Cavenaugh also claims be applied from the largest that it can enrich one's life, as company to the smallest family well as one's mental health, busin~ss. build work options, and Finally, Cavenaugh claimed, 
Improve commumcations at all women of today are finding job levels. ways to become ''ambitious, 
After her graduation, powerful, competitive and risk-Cavenaugh enlisted in the takers." Because of this, tradi­Peace Corps and was tionally male-dominated fields subsequently sent to Peru, such as the research and devel­
Security Director joseph Wall, week. Terry, a veteran of the work to improve ''the uttlizatic"l
where she organized a low-in-opment of energy sources, fin left, .and his successor Glenn L South Rend Police Department, oj students in the .ledJI1tv come housing project. During ance, computer technology, and Terry discuss Notre Dame se­saidhe 7•iews the department as process. '' · the two years that she spent electrical and sCientific engi­curity at a press conference last a "sevice," and that he wz/1there, Cavenaugh acquired the neering, are open to women. community organizational skills Yet as ambitious as these that are now an integral part of women are, they must choose her present job. As head of an occupation that will neither Cook-Cavenaugh, Associates, a conflict with nor overrule her A • • 
consultant firm in Washington, lifestyle. She must market her D.C., she specializes in com-skills and flaunt her carabilities pany management. "The new woman wil comple-
One of the most common ment her heritage with the corporate deficiencies that Cav-skills of communication," Cav­enaugh is called upon to rectify enaugh concluded. 
is the lack of communication among co-workers. Although most laborers work as indivi­duals, the end product should 
be a group effort, just as a corp­oration IS based upon the concept of many smaller tasks directed to one large common 
goal. 
This is rarely the case, howev­er. Competition is the dominat­ing factor, and thus the group effort does not exist. Parr of this syndrome can be attributed to the competitive atmospher-e found in schools. The "group project'' rarely yields a satisfac­tory result because instead of one project, there are usually several mdependent onbes. 
One way to combat this separ­atism, Cavenaugh said, is en­courage cooperation. Students should learn to build goal agreements, working on the process 
Students should learn to list-
News show ' -features 
f 1 LI 
b h 

.I .I es Uri(. 
An ABC-TV "WorldNewsTo­
night" segment to be aired 
tonight at . 6 p.m. features 
interviews with Notre Dame 
President Fr. Theodore Hes­
burgh and Fr. ] ames T. Burt­
chaell, a university theology 
professor. 
The interviews, conducted by ABC Correspondent Don Far­mer, are being presented to mark Pope john Paul II's upco:'lling ~.S. tour. Hesburgh was mtervtewed on the subject of change in the American Catholic Church, and Burt­chaell spoke on the topic of abortion. 

"s-tudents form committee to investigate tenure 
Tim Beatty, a Senior Econo­mic> major, recently announced the formation of the Student Committee on Tenure. This committee has been formed by students who wish to investi­gate the Universiry's policy on tenure decisions. 
The first action of this commit­tee was to formally protest the tenure dedsions made late last spring after classes ended. This protest took the form of a demonstration by a group of fifteen to twenry students who gathered in front of the north dining hall the evenu~g of the President's Dinner. 
These students voiced their q:>inion of the decisions with a pacard stating, ''Look at who 
have goneI Re-evaluate ten­ure." They also handed out flyers with a more in-depth statement dealing with their concerns to those attending the dinner. 
Paul Lauer, one of the spokesmen for the committee, reports that, "The protest was well received. Many faculty members showed both sym­pathy and support.'' 
Presently, the Student Com­mittee on Tenure is trying to force the review of the cases of teachers who students feel were unjustly dismissed. The com­mittee also wants to compare and evaluate the system which yielded these decisions. The first step toward these goals, says Lauer, is to educate the students, making them aware of how the system works and what its purpose is. 
To ach1eve these goals, the Student Committee on Tenure has begun to organize support for professors who they feel were unjustly denied tenure. Lauer urges any students who either have worked on the tenure issue or are upset by any one of-the decisions made to call him at 232-9264. 
''There is a course of action to take, if we organize," says Lauer. ''These teachers are depending on our initiative. Because of the sensitiviry of the situation, they can't come right out and ask us for our support. We have to offer it." 
ct1V1Sts· 
call for release of Yuanding 
. PE~~NG (AP) -Human rights ?Ctlvtsts yesterday pasted a poster on "Democracy Wall" that called for the release of Re~ Yuanding, a_ leader o_f the Chma Human Rights Alltance who was arrested April 4. 
"We deeply mtss this fine comrade who stood for the reform of society and the pro­tection of human rights," said the long yellow poster that the Alliance put on the wall, used by dissidents to publish their demands. 
''His arrest will be a test of the effectiveness and sincerity of China's new law code," the poster said. · 
In March and April, about 30 activists, includtng Alliance members, were arrested for their criticism of the Commun­ist Party and their calls for democracy and human rights. All those arrested have been held without trial and without publication of the charges a­gainst them. 
"We strongly demand the release of Ren, who has done nothing in conflict with the constitution," the poster said. 
In July, the National People's Congress passed a new code of law and cnminal procedures 
that goes into effect .Jan. I. It 
Instructors present 'Jump-in' 
Instructors from the Northern ' 
Indiana Sport Parachute Center 
will present a skydiving 
"Jump-in" at Green Field on 
Wednesday at 6:30 p.m., 
weather permitting. Spectators 
are asked to gather on the north 
edge of the field, on the west 
side of the stadium. 
Immediately following the 
demonstration, there will be a 
movie ·and a question-and-an­
swer program in the LaFortune 
ballroom. his event will be held 
regardless of the weather, and 
an admission fee of2 5 cents will 
be levied. 
provides safeguards for individ· guarentees everyone an open ualliberties and draws a sharp trial and vigorous defense. lir1e on paper between counter­The poster pur up Sunday said revullll ionary ideas and actions. Ren wrote the draft of the China 
No one can be jailed for Hu~an Rights Declaration last inmrrect ideas, it says, and it spnng. 
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE STUDENTS interested in serving on the ACADEMIC COUNCIL or the ENGINEERING COLLEGE COUNCIL must apply !Prior to 5 pm Friday Sept 28 Application forms available at the office of the Dean of Engineering Room 257 Fitzpatrick Hall 


THE GREAT ESCAPE. 
You dream about it at night ... the day you can close your books, get out of this place and forget about studying for awhile. 
Well, the Great Escape is here ... this weekend, with Greyhound. Escape to the country or go see some friends. Just decide which escape route you want and we'll do the rest. 
We'll get you out of town and away from the 

books so you can clear your head. It doesn't cost 
much and it'll do you a world of good. 
So make the Great Escape this weekend ... with Greyhound. 
~~~~~~~~~­
To On~Way Round-Trip Depart Arrive 

Chicago $9.15 $1740 4:50p.m. 6:55 p:m 
Detroit $19.40 $36.90 10:20 a.m 5:35p.m 
Cleveland $24.90 47.35 1150 a.m 7 35 p.m 
Pittsburgh $37.05 $70.40 8:20a.m. 8:35p.m. 
Milwauklee $15.25 $;9.00 9:45 a.rr, 2·15 p m 
(Prices subject to d1ange.) 

-287-6524 
..........
.,.,.

~® ­
GO GREYIIOIIIJ •-.....
,-­



The Observer 

Monday, September 24, 1979-page 4 Emperor's statue toppled 


ROCCOS 
m•n's and women's 
Turbulence and looting follow Bokassa's ouster 
hairstyling BANGUT Central Mrican Re­Bokassa' s bloodless ouster. neighboring countries at Dac­stores along Avenue Boganda,public (AP) -Turbulant crowds A happy throng swarmed up ko's request, ostensibly "to the city's main throroughfare,at comfortable toppled a gigantic statue of to army headquarters and, as _meet threats to the people's where hundreds of persons1 deposed Emperor Bokassa I unarmed Central African sold­safety." looted Friday and Saturday inP' ces yesterday as heavily armed iers watched, hauled down the The Frenchmen yesterday the coup's aftermath. 531 N. ffiichigan French soldiers guarded key statue, bringing it crachingto were patrolling important inter­Bokassa, who seized power in 2~.3-4957 roads and weapdonb-l~ssf local the pavement. sections and roadways through­1966 from David Dackeo, and Between 400 and 500 French out this sprawling capital on the later anointed himself emperor, 
1 =====.:··.;:;-;;,·.;:;-,;,;--;,;;··.====:::!.J troops swept up e ns rom a 
~ loottng binge that followed soldiers were sent in from Ubangi River and guarding was toppled late Thursday night in a French-backed coup led by Dacko. At the time Bokassa was in Libya attempt­
SPRING 1980 
ing to obtain financing for his tottering regime in exchange 


Council announces 
for granting Libya a military
WASHINGTON SEMESTER 

award guidelines 
base in the northern part of his
The American University 
nation. 

The Fellowship Office of the must not have completed post­The ousted emperor later National Research Council has baccalaureate study in excess of 
flew to Paris in his personal jet, separate programs in 
announced the guidelines for 30 smester hours or 45 quarter but failed to win asylum and left 
fellowships to be awarded in hours in the fields listed above. France aboard a French militar 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE • URBAN AFFAIRS 
the spring of 1980 by the Applicants for either fellow­aircraft early today_ for a desti­
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT • FOREIGN POLICY 
National Science Foundation ship will be required to take the nation in Africa, official sources
ECONOMIC POLICY • AMERICAN STUDIES 
(NSF). Graduate Record Examinations reported.
The NSF Graduate Fellow­designed to test aptitude and Bokassa left aboard a DC -8
programs indudeo: for further information write: 
• SEMINARS WITH I.JO::CISION MAKERS 
ship Pro~ram limits eilgibility scientific achievement. The after having spent 54 hours at a 
• INTERNSHIPS ON CAPITAl. HILL. IN Washington Semester Programs 
to those mdividuals who, as of examinations, administered by military air base west of Paris. 
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES. WITH Ward Circle Bldg. 216 
the time of application, have the Educational Testing Ser­Officials declined to reveal
PUBLIC INTEREST GROUPS Washington. D.C. 20016 
not completed postbaccalaure­vice, will be given 0n December the_ dethroned emperor's desti­ate study in excess of 18 quarter 8, 1979 at designated centers nanon. 
The American Unlversily i5 an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University. 
hours or 12 semester hours, or throughout the United States Bokassa, who ruled his land­eq_uivalent, in any field of and in certain foreign countries. locked central Arican nation science, engineering, social sci­The deadline date for the with an iron hand for 14 years, ence, or mathematics. Subject submission of applications for arrived at the military base at to the availability of funds, new NSF Graduate Fellowships and Evreux Friday night from Liby 


THE OBSERVER 
fellowships awarded in the Minority Graduate Fellowships after being refused permissio Spring of 1980 will be for is November 29, 1979. to land at Charles de Gaulle an
needs someone to assist our 
peri<>Qs of three years, the NSF Postdoctoral Fellow­Orly airports in Paris. second and third years contin­ships, designed to provide post­He had b~en in Tripoli nego 
gent on certification to the doctoral research and study tiating with Lroyan a:Jthoriue Foundation by the fellowship opportunities to a broader pop­for a1d for his impoverishe institution of the student's sa­ulation of scientists, offer two country when the coup occur 
overworked secretary in taking 

classified ads from 
tisfactory progress toward an tenure options: (1) Full-time red. advanced degree in science. tenures for those who can
12:00 to 1:30 or 2:00,1 
These fellowships will be arrange to devote all their effort D N C surve_y
awarded for study or work to the conduct .of a fellowship
monday thru friday 
leading to master's or doctoral program; (2) Part-time tenures 
degrees in the mathematical, for those with family, financial, indicates stron!( 
physical, medical, biological, or such other obligations as 
engineering, and social sci-may preclude their pursuit of a Kenned_y support 
-leave your name 
.. ences, and in the history and and phone no. with . philosophy of science. Awards will not be made in clinical, law, 
Bob at 8661 or 7471 
education, or business fields, in 
-this is a paid position history or social work, for work leading to medical, dental, or public health degrees, or for study in joint science-profes­sional degree programs. Appli­cants must be Citizens of the United States, and will be judged on the basis of ability. The annual stipend for Gradu­ate Fellows will be $4,320 for a twelve-month tenure with no dependency allowances. 

Individuals who are members of an ethnic minority group may qualify for the NSF Minority Graduate Fellowship Program. Applicants for this fellowship 
SMC President 
addresses Student 
Assembly

ATTENTION SCIENCE AND 
Saint Mary's Student Body
ENGINEERING 
President, Pia Trigiani addres­
'MAJORS! 

sed members of the Student Assembly at their first meeting last night. She reaffirmed the assembly's purpose as stated in 
Tht:> A1r Forn• !M.~ opPnmgs for vouny men dnd women majoring in 
the student handbook and ex­
...,_.lc.·rtt-d ~rw·nce and ('ngnwenng field., I.ike Al!ronautictJI. Aerospace. 
plained that its main goal this
(J,.n,•r.JI .md EJ..rtnc.JI Enyuw .. nny. Mrlth .. rnahcs. Phvsics and Corn !HJh•r rt•<.·hnoloyv 
year is to update the structure 
To hl!l[l Prt't><~re for On<' of th'''"· A1r Foret' KOTC offers two and 
of Student Government. 
lour W•" rrogr.Hn' of 'tudv whcrh will ddray 'om" of your college 
Trigiani said that the purpose
((1\h 

of restructuring is to make the
Aft,•r r<>mpldi<>n of th•· AI'KOTC requin•mpnt. ,md upon your grad u.Jtloll. you'lllw e<>rmm"io.,luned .m offin•r m thl' A1r Force Then comes 
assembly more visible on cam­
pus and increase its potential
/'''l"""''"htv. <'Xfl<'rll'nce 1n your ~per~oJitV wcth 'Oint' of the best peo 
pit.' .md frll !litil'.., 1r1 lh(! world..md (·, rm ....,.ion with cl purpo~l-'. You'llget 
use to students. As represen­
••xn•ll••nt ·.t.trllng ,.,IMv. medcc.cl .mtl dental C<lre. :lO dnys of paid vrl' 
tatives, the assembly must 
t <1t1on hP~Jinnmg your fir-,t yt->c1r. .mJ more 
reflect studetn opinion and
Lcx>k !IJto till' Alr l'orn· fl()'J"C progr.>m nght away. See wh.Jt\ 111 it fur you 5<•(• how you cdn :)ervl' your country m return. You"ll he ylad 
make recomendations to the 
you pur vour rT\dJOT to work on " Joh lllttt reallv counts 
Board of Governance. 
The Student Assembly set their permanent meeting time 
Al!ROTC DET. 225 
Univ. of Notre Dame Captain Davts 
for Tuesdays at 9:00, on the 
0 opposite weeks of the Board of Governance. The next meeting will be Oct. 2 in the Student Government office in Refina
(~19) 283-663J I North Hall.
Gateway too great way of life.. 
full-nme fellowship program. 

Fifty or more full-time and WASHINGTON (AP) -Most 
part-time fellowships will be members of the Democratic 
awarded for research and study National Committee respond­
in the mathematical, physical, ing to a survey indicated they 
medical, biological, engineer-believe Sen. Edward M. Ken­
ing, and social sciences, in the nedy already has majority 
history and phlisophy of sci-committee support over Presi­
ence, and in interdisciplinary dent nomination, U.S. News 
areas. Awards will not be made and World Report said yester­
in clinical, education, or busi-day. The Magazine said in a 
ness fields nor in history, social press release that its upcom­
work, or public health. mg issue will contain a copy-
Application may be made by right survey ofDNC members. persons who will have earned There are 363 members of the by the beginning of their fellow-DNC. Of the 105 responding, ship tenures a doctoral degree the magazine said, 53 believed in one of the fields of science Kennedy would carry their listed above or have had re-state if the party's convention search training and experience were held today. Carter ws equivalent to that represented supported by 30 percent, by a Ph.D. degree m one of while 17 percent said it was those fields, and who will have too close to call. In a related held the doctorate for no more matter, the Alaska Democratic than five years as of November Central Committee has ap­2, 1979. All applicants must be. proved a resolution urging citizens of the United States, Kennedy to enter the 1980 and will be judg<id on the basis presidential primaries, accor­of ability. ding to an Alaskans for Ken-
The basic stipend for full-nedy spokesman. John Have­time Postdoctoral Fellows is lock, a member of the month­$1, 150 per month; $575 per old Kennedy support group, month for half-time Fellows. A said it was the first such call limited travel allowance .is also by a state committee. He provided. In addition, the added that the party resolu­National Science Foundation tion was not a Kennedy en­will provide the fellowship insti-dorsement. tution, upon request, with a cost-of-education allowance on behalf of the Fellow to assist the institution in meeting the cost of tuition and fees, and in St Lo · C'l b 
providing the Fellow with space , UZS tU 
and supplies, and equipment. 
Fellows are also provided with 
their research. No dependency • allowance is available. Orf!anzzes 

The deadline date for the submission of applications is November 2, 1979. The ND-SMC St. Louis Club 
Further information and ap-will hold an organizational plication materials for any of· meeting on Tuesday, Sept. ~5 these fellowships may be ob-in the Little Theatre tn tained from the Fellowship LaFortune Student Center. All Office, National Research students from the St. Louis area Council, 2101 Constitution Ave-are invited to attend. nue, Washington, D.C. 20418. 

\~-:) l ~~\ l~{~ . ~:1:'). ~.;1 ':·> bns _;,..t .<:1"1wuq ':o,tir:w 
.b:nr.:-:c1 v1x1:1:::0q .,~ 1.1:1 ,;:t(• ~.:omv,:~ ~•i.lw ~"'" ,~to~~<~.ib 
,.,..,._,,..,...,. ,.._ ,.~..,..,.,......_..~..,... ._~......,..~ ,... Aft"'r.."th."~11·w~ •., ,~.ora.a.. .,..,.u. 

The Observer Monday, September 24, 1979-pa2e 5 
,...............................,
_

Despite con sion, lnPIRG 
: TONY'S SHOE SHOP ·•• • repair any kind of leather goods, •
continues public servtces ••. .• 
• also zippers_, shoe repairing, polishing, •
. -.
--·-::-•

by Kathryn Casey problem was just a mix-up m knew nothing ot what happened 
communications. to them afterward. Jones : Orthopedic Specialist, quick service, : 
In spite of some financial confusion, the Indiana Public Interest Research Group will be working here this year to provide its community services throughout the state. InPIRGdiscovered its economic difficulties in August when voluntary check-off cards were not issued with tuition packets at registration. lnPIRG was try­ing to encourage students to donate $2 to the program by instructing that each student leave his card at the designated desk during registration. The Office of Student Accounts would have billed volunteers through standard University billing procedures. 
However, the order to print the cards was never filled. InPIRGCoordinator Jim Jones said that, as far as he knew, the According to Jones, the 
University Board of Trustees 
had wanted no pan oflnPIRGs 
voluntary check-off system be­
cause of parental objection that 
the servtce was useless. The 
Board left the decision to Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh. Due to 
what Jones said he supposed 
was confusion in messages, he 
did not receive Hesburgh's 
letter okaying the system until 
two hours before his flight left 
at the end of the '79 school 
year. 
Therefore arrangements for 

.InPIRG'scheck-off plan were 
hurried and somewhat chaotic, 
Jones indicated. 
Assistant Registrar Beverly 

Fisette said that she had given 
Jones instructions on complet­. ing the order forms for the 
check-off cards, but that she 
Zimbabwe Rhodesia talks enter third unsuccessful week 
LONDON (AP) -As the Zimbabwe Rhodesia peace talks enter their third week, British sources hold out little hope for total success in settling tssues that have left the country ravaged by war, divided by poliucs and weakened by eco­nomic sanctions. 
Prime Minister Abel Muzore­wa's conditional agreement to drop the present constitution's guarantee of white parliamen­tary seats was an important concession, but the talks are still a long way from the stated aim of ending the 7-year-old war and leading the rebel colony to recognized indepen­
dence. 
Before the fighting stops, the current black-led admmistra­tion and the black guerrilla alliance that is its sworn enemy would have to decide who will run a new government and control the guns. 
Some British sources say privately they rate as low as 20 percent the chances of an overall settlement -so great are the differences between the warring parties. 
Muzorewa's agreement -at 
the Friday session of the Bri­
tish-sponsored talks -to drop 
the white powers entrenched in 
his unrecognized constitution 
improves Britain's chances of 
getting the guerrilla movement 
mto 'ine on a new constitution. 
The guerrillas oppose the pre­
sent constitution on the 
grounds it allows the tiny white 
minority continued control of 
the country.
Britain's Conservative go­
vernment is likely to be under 
unprecendented pressure at its Prime Minister Ian Smith, now a government delegate. 
It was Smith, leader of the colonial government, who broke unilaterally with Britain in 1965 in an attempt to stave off black-majority rule. 
Muzorewa was clear about demanding an immediate end to the trade embargoes, applied by most world nations, inclu­dmg Britain and the United States, and endorsed by the United Nations. Btlt his quali­fying statement, on which he would not be questioned, was cloudy. 
''This acceptance is subject to the satisfactory working out of the many defails concerned with these proposals and subsequent steps that will then have to be taken,'' he said. 
Smith was deserted by the other white delegates in his protest that special safeguards are essential for the confidence of the dwindling white pofula­tion of 230,000. Some o the whites said privately they had lost control of their political destiny anyway and their only hope lay in Muzorewa getting a deal from the British. 
One white minister said, 
"We must sink or swim with 
Muzorewa.'' 
Plane crashes into home; kills three 

annual party congress next MIRRMAR Fla. (AP) -a month to trade embargoes that fuel-laden light airplane nose­were imposed on the previous dived into a ho~e yesterday white Rhodesian government and exploded mto flames, and have been maintained killing the three persons on against the government led by board but sparing a ~oman Muzorewa, the country's first and four t_eenagers _m the black prime minister. house. Pohce had satd f~ur 
The Patriotic Front guerrilla per~ons were on ~he twm­alliance insists on getting rid of engme plane ~hen 1t took off Muzorewa, setting up a new from a small !ltrport near here transition administration and Sunday mornmg. But after_ an building a new national army air and ground search _lasung with its fighters at the core. several hours, they satd later 
In what appeared to be there apparently h~,d been carefully vague terms, Muzo-only three aboard. Accord­rewa announced his bi-racial ing to eyewitnesse~ there we!e delegation's acceptance of the four ~erso!ls lo~dmg the 3f!· "general pri~ciples" of ~ri-craft, ' satd Mrramar J>ohce tatn's constttuttonal draft, shich officer Lee En~land. How­would sharply reduce the ever, from t~e stte of the crash whites' powers. . The sole and everythtn~ _else there ar:; 
; ~ di§s~mer . W8i5 · whi~ .. former' only tbree posmvely located. 
indicated that the administra­
tion had been very helpful and 
was not to be blamed for the 
last minu.te mix-up. 
'•We want to keep a good 
working relationship with 
them," he added. 
Jones said that InPIRGwill have its voluntary check-off cards in time for spring regis­tration. Hesburgh has approved the system on a one-year trial basis. 
In the meantimelnPIRGwill go ahead with its plans for the ye:J,r, beginning with a survey of bookstore · text prices. 
Jones said that most of the group's projects will not require much money. Leftover funds from last year combined with proceeds from a concession stand at the Navy game, and a recycling program with the Hall Presidents' Council will cover any necessary expenses tem­porarily. 
IPIRG had originally proposed that a mandatory refundable $ 2 be added to tuition bills, but the Board of Trustees had decided against the plan. 
A similar policy which has been in effect at Rutgers Uni­versity is now being challenged by a lawsuit in the Camden Division of the U.S. District Court of New Jersey. 
The suit was filed by the Mid-Atlantic Legal Foundation· on behalf of three studentfees collected by an agencv of the state to fund the activities of a private lobbying group violates the First and Fourte.enth Amendment Rights of themselves and other Rutgers students.'' 
.. 

• reasonable price • • Notre Dame Campus 283·1144 • 
: Open Sto 5 Mon.-Fri. and Sto 1 Sat. : 
I 
WELCOmE BACK OFFER: 

I 
I
The Ce1mpus CleGnets one blouse. sweGtet, 01 sle1cks clee1ned with Gny like Item offer expires 
Gnd this Gd 

10/1/79 mon-Frl 9:30 am-2:30 pm BASEmENT OF Leffians SffiC 
284-4841 

1Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
THE College of Science on the Ace1demlc Council should submit Ne1me and bdef StGtement of Putpose befote Sept.26th to: 
Student council c/o The Office of Dean of Science Rm 229 Nleuwland Science 


"JAG took me out of the classroom and into the courtroom." 
You've chosen law because you know you've got the ability and the dedication to protect the rights of others. But it can be hard to find the opportunity to practice in the courtroom what you've learned in the classroom. 
Think about the Navy Judge Advocate General (JAG) program. In the JAG Corps you'll be a "working" lawyer and the experience you get will be on-the-spot-in the courtroom. 
The JAG Program is available to first and second year law students as well as those students in their final year of law school. 
The opportunity is for real ... and so are we. NAVY 
For mgre mformat•on see 
See the Navv___ReoresentJStive at ~he Law Sc_h.o.ol Placement Office on 2 Oct. 79 or call LT Mclean at .312 657-2169 

' .~ •• -• Ill 





Editorials 
Wanted:· 
SMC student support 
The restructuring of Saint· student body as a reflection of Mary's student government is the students' lack of confidence one of the major goals of this in institutions that repre._.:nt year's Board of Governance. them. The plan to restructure Specifically, efforts will be the Student Assembly indicates made to increase the effective-· the Board of Governance's ness and visib~lity of the Stu-awareness _of students' _atti­dent Assembly. While The tudes. Th1s awareness IS a Observer commends these major step toward improvement efforts, we believe it is necess-. of student representation. 
ary to understand the general student attitude against which they must work. 
.. 
Last week 17 representatives were elected to the Saint Mary's Student Assembly. All 17 ran unopposed. This special fall election was necessitated by
~ 
an insufficient number of cand­
r 
idates in the election last
r 
r spring. {At that time, only two repre­
r 
sentatives were elected.) These
r 
facts are a sad commentary on, the Saint Mary's student body. 
' 
Although many students voted 
r in last week's election, the votes are meaningless. _qne candtdate for . ~a.ch positiOn leave'> no poss1b1ltty for com-
However, student government cannot resolve the problem alone. That so few students are willing to assume the responsi­bility and concern of serving on the Student Assembly indicates a general lack of interest. The Student Assembly has a great influence on the students' lives. This lack of interest will hinder stud-ent government in its attempt to improve student life and representation at Saint Mary's. 
We support the Saint Mary's student government in its efforts to spark student interest 
and participation. We also challenge Saint Mary's students to become involved in 
parison of plart:orms. While : and cooperate with their stu~ents were _gtven th_e a!ter-; student government. Restruct­!latlve to abstatn, abstatnauons uring the Assembly will be tn an uncontested race, unless 1 successful only if students the number exc<:ed~ 4? percent support these efforts by their of the vote, are tnstgntficant. participation. 
The Observer views the appar­ent apathy of the Saint Mary's 

DOOIISBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 
H/,8055. 
IAJH/[{'5 
UP? 
I 


_The Observer_. 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
}()(!mow, JAO:SON, atURCH ANI? CIJM­PANY. 7HI3Y'V& JUST FORH3/JA/'VI:WTA~ 
FORCE 70 LINK SALT IAIITH A 50VI&T 
PR£5ENCE IN 
/ CIJBA. 

Monday, September 24, 1979 -page 6 

Ofink spots andphalluses 
It is with a certain apprehension that I read The Ohserver each day to familiarize myself with current events, and this Tuesday my fears were justified--and it was not the beef stew that gave me indigestion. Paul Lauer's article, ''Call for a be~mning of perception, thout:tht and activism, ' demon­strated the relattvely dosed-mindedness of what he purports to be true liberalism. The implied assumption of the article was that anyone who disagreed with what Mr. Lauer took to be obvious was either stupid or not liberal, or both. 
In the beginning of the article Mr. Lauer said that the Dome "strikes me as a phallic symbol.'' Now I live on the fourth floor of St. Edward's Hall in the room closest to the Dome, and after reading this, I ventured out onto the fire escape to see this giant phallus. 
Several minutes passed and I stiU could only see Our Lady on top of the Dome, but ther. I was never good at reading ink spots either. I suspect that if Mr. Lauer sees a giant phallus, then perhaps this tells us more about Mr. Lauer than it does about the Administration Building. 
But perhaps Mr. Lauer also suffered from a bad Saga lunch; this would explain his novel interpretation, but it would not excuse his poor taste. It seems to be an unnecessary cheap shot at a religious belief which many people, as imperfect and contradictory as they are, hold near and dear to them. If Mr. Lauer wants us to be sensitive to the plight of others, perhaps he would be better off if he were a little sensitive to the people around him. 
. As regards the question of South African investments by the university, Mr. Lauer's simplistic condemnation of university policy is certainly very naive. The reason, he asserts, that Notre Dame continues its investments is because the administration prefers "to work within the system" and because to withdraw these investments is too radical, or paraphrasing his own word, roo much to the root of the problem. While I would hardly want to be a university apologist, there are some legiti· mate reasons put forth for continued investment, such as the continued influence insuring many black jobs. It is highly doubtful that withdrawal of funds would crush the apartheid regime: to believe that is to believe in fairy tales. As for African requests, does Mr, Lauer recall the elected 
Bill McGurn 
Prime Minister, Bishop Abel Muzorewa, 
and his plea to Carter to lift the economic 
sanctions against his country? My point is 
that even though Mr. Lauer may have some 
valid complaints, he does not recognize the 
valid complaints of others--in fact, he does 
not even consider them. It is a very complex 
issue and there is no simple solution; we 
must consider all views and then act 
rationally to achieve what is best in the long 
run. 

The second contradiciton Mr. Lauer sees in the Administration's policies is their recent decisions on the tenure of certain professors. But the article does not make clear what this evil policy is and why. it _is evil. He calls for students to have a votce 1n the (>roceedings, but he dqes not give any spectfications. Certainly this is a legitimate gripe, let we are not given the hows and whys o the situation, and we are asked to be angry just because Mr. Lauer says that we should be. The best we can glean from that paragraph is that he is upset because some of his favorite professors were released and others (presumably worse) were retained. 
Finally, I wish to take to task the call for a be sinning of perception, thousht and acttvism, as the title of the article mdicated. So often when one person feels that the has found The Truth, he also feels that this marks the beginning of all real thought on the subject; everything before is just so much garbage. No one has a monopoly on truth (not t"V<~n Fr. Hesburgh) and to take all of one's opinions as obvious to the world just because they are obvious to one's mind is ro kill any ''perception, thought and activism'' in the bud. 
Thus, while there is no doubt, at least in my mind (Paul Lauer being an acquaint­ance), that Mr. Lauer is sincere m his criticisms and proposed solutions, I feel nonetheless he could at least grant this same sincerity to those with opposing viewpoints. He calls for activism; I call for a little more thought so that we do not sacrifice long range benefits for short term spite. If we are to be effective in what we do, we must know damn well what we're doing, and we must be a little bit patient with those who do not see things in black and white as we do.. As a friend, albeit politically dissimilar, I would urge Mr. Lauer to be a little less dogmatic in the future. 

P. O.BoxQ 
'Sex at ND' intolerable 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to address a 
response in regard to the letter 
of Mr.'s Newquist, Kenny, 
Leary, and Emigh. You sirs 
contend that the program "Sex 
at N.D." was an "outlet for the 
frustrated members of this 
Victorian community.'' Frus­
tration occurs when one's striv­
ings are thwarted or when the 
appropriate goal is absent. 
Is tt the University which truly blocks this achievement, or is it the timidity of the frustrated, or is it the goal 
itself? The appropriate goal -(some "selected person") may not want sex (for any number of 
valid or inva!td reasons.) 
The University is without 
blame in this situation. It did 
not rear us and therefore is not 
responsible for our behavior. 
Though there are parietals, is 
there anything you cannot do 
between 11 and 12 or 2 that you 
can do from 2 on? 
In regards to the ratings of such obnoxious garbage, that only shows the number of people who either: were hoping to gain some insight from those truly interested callers who occassionally graced the show; or are curious about students who feel and display suppres­sion of wholesome sexual reality and yet, when anony­mous, feel free to and actually 
enjoy fantasizing verbally; or 
enjoy crudity. 

The show was not, from what I can gather (I had enough the first ttme last year), "malic­ious" but crude and extremely obscene. If the "thoughts, feelings,'' etc. had been expressed in a truly adult manner--i.e. using preferable and publicly acceptable terms-­I'm sure Dean Roemer would not have reacted to strongly. 
Such filth would not be 
tolerated in the "real" world (but FCC rules and regulations), .therefore why allow it here, in a 
''learning-for-real-world­living'' mstitute? It would seem somewhat contradictory, wouldn't it? Come join us to the real world, why don't you? 
A.M. Tacco 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editar .......... Diane Wilson the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonai Editor.. ............ Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ......... M. Onufrak their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis able to all members of the community, News Editor ....................Mark Rust and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor ... ..Ellen BuddY. encouraged. SMC News Editor ..... ... Margie Brasstl 
Sports Editor ................ .. Mark Perry Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor ........•..... Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager ....... Tim Sullivan Advertising Manager ......... Bob Rudy Controller............... ... Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
f 
-, 



Features 
Monday, September 24, 1979 -page 7 





ISIS IS ARISING 
The ancient hieroglyphics, the cryptic conveyances of man's early history, tell us that the Egyptians worshipped the river Nile and gave her the name of Isis, goddess of fertility. In recognition of the paradox of creation, she was repre­sented as a heavily-veiled and remote· figure. It is appropriate, then, that the Isis Gallery, conceived in the fertile genius of Notre Dame art students, be named after this arch­creator. It is unfortunate, however, that the gallery has, for the most part, remained as enshrouded in mystery as its mythical patron. 
What is the Isis Gallery? "It's a student gallery. Its function is to show the students' works, either in one-man or group shows and to bring in a variety ofguest artists to help the students see what's going on outside of the Notre Dame art department, and to critique the students' work," replies Jim Haager, an industrial design major from SouthBendand this year's Isis director. 
The gallery has a checkerboard history of ups and downs. A group of architecture students, needing a place to display pieces completed during their year m Rome, opened the gallery in the northwest corner of the Fieldhouse in 1970. After the '70 season, the gallery was discontinued, and the space used only occasionally by the art department or by visiting artists. 
Despite this setback, Isis has planned a dynamic season of student shows interspersed with shows by visiting artists, as well as several lectures. While in the past student shows have received the larger part of of Isis' time and budget, this year Haager intends to emphasize and expand the visiting artists program, since he believes students will ben­efit more by greater contact with the professional art world. 
Isis works closesly with the Notre Dame Art Department in the depart­ment's visiting artists program, pool­ing financial resources and expertise. 
A Visiting Artists Advisory Com­mittee is composed of Haager, pro­fessors Moirajefferion, fibres and sculpture, an Douglas Kinnsey, etching and painting, and second year grad student Joan Gallagher. The committee selects artists whose :styles differ substantially from those o£ the art professors and campus artists. ''This allows a variety of influences,'' Haager explained. 
During his stay, a visiting artist will not only put on his own show, but will also lecture and critique student work, as well as teach a class in his specialty. And each artist has either an opening or closing reception to his show where the students have the chance to question him about his techni;re and professional back­
groun .d . . h . . .. 
In a <1won to ostmg VISitmg 


Then in 1972, art student Chris Gregory assumed the dormant role of Isis director. With funds obtained from the Cultural Arts Commission, he organized a dynamic '72 season with weekly student shows. Campus interest ran high, and it seemed as though the fledgling gallery had finally come into Its own. 
But following seasons lacked th_e vitality ofthe '72 season. Interest hu a low in 1974-75 when a lack of exhibitions, erratic gallery hours and poor publicity combined to squelch the growing program. . 
Haager hopes to reverse this decline this year with aggressive management. The first step in his plans for the rejuvenation of the gallery is a more energetic public relations campaign. "In the past," he notes, "the director hasn't taken it on himself to be aggressive in the publicity side of the gallery." To combat the campus' lack of aware­ness, Haager hung a large red and white sign on the outside of the northwest corner of the Fieldhouse. After two days, it was stolen. "I wish that whoever rook it would realize that the sign was the most important piece of publicity alerting students to the existence of Isis and that the gallery can't afford to make another one.'' 
artists, Isis is planning several 
exchange shows with Midwestern 
and Southern universities, including 
Andrews University, the University 
of Illinois, and the Universities of 
Kentucky and Texas. Notre Dame 
students will open their show at the 
exchange university, bring th_e 
visitors' pieces back to the Isis 
Gallery, and close the exchange with 
a reception when the visitors come to 
pick up their work. . 
Isis serves as a center of learnmg 
and exchange; equally important, 
however, is its second function: a 
place where Notre Dame art students 
can display their original works. 
There are two types of student 
shows, one-man and group shows. 
Any student who has enough pieces of high quality can have. h~s own show, although generally It Is the upperclassmen who have had the chance to accumulate enough works in a variety of medias. If a student does not have enough work for his own show, he can combine with other artists to create a group exhibition. Student shows usually run one class week and are open to the public from 1-3 pm Monday through Friday. 
This year, in addition to the regular student shows, the g'":-tduate students' thesis exhibition, normally held at theO'ShaughnesseyGallcry, will be held in die Isis Gallery sometime in the spring. Isis will also host the Senior Art Festival in early April. 
Plans for the upcoming season could be complicated by problems of finance and maintenance. Conditions at the Fieldhouse are far from ideal. 
Jim Killy, and art professor from Miami University, works on one of 
Leaking (one corner of the building sank nearly a half inch over the summer due to leaking) and humidity pose a real threat to the artwork displayed. Since Isis Gallery cannot afford insurance, it must limit the duration of its shows to one week to avoid any damage to delicate pieces. 
The structure of the gallery itself (it is a converted and glorified locker room) created several display prob­lems: right now, there are few partitions and little wall space. Haager plans to expand wall space by applying plywood paneling to a large stretch of brick wall, thereby allowing more room for drawing and prints. 
Any plans for renovations, how­ever, must take into accoum a severely limited budget. Isis is funded by the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission, and has the small­est budget in the CAC, this year's projected total (subject to Student Union approval) coming to approx-
Kate Farrell 
imately $2,4)0. Ot that figure, over halfwill be spent on the visni ng artist program and public relations, leaving little funding for maintenance and capital improvements. The plywood paneling will be the only renovation .Haager will be able to afford this 
season. 
his moving wood sculptures. Left, below, a finished example 

Despite these serious problems, Isis is pushing ahead with its ambitious '79-80 plans. The gallery's season began Wedne.:;da\, Sept.l9 with a lecture-slide p1 c-seutation by visiting artist Jim Killy; Notre Dame graduate and an profes~or at M1ami ­University. A .;;culptor, Killy specialized in kineuc con::.rructions madf' exclusively of wood. Since Killy 's works wne too large to transport to Notre I>arne, he had no show, bur wlll teach two sculpture classes Friday afternoon. Isis is also preparing for the October 5 exchange show with Andrews University. 
·In the past, Isis has always been an unknown entity on campus, perpet­
. ually tottering on the bnnk of permanent shutdown. This season, the gallery hopes to firmly establish itself as a center of artistic exchange and debate. This may be the year Isis is unveiled to reveal the fertile genius of th' Notre Dame art community. 

What Is A Preppie? 
Preppies are easily recognizal le 
mainly because they spend so mu h 
time and money trying to resemble .. 
"unique individual". 
A preppie's hair color may be 
blonde, black or brown, but never 
red. They usually have tans in 
December, lizards on their shirts and 
wear khaki pants that sometimes are 
blue. Only preppies wear docksiders 
while playing raquetball (and then 
only if their Adidas are at the dry 
cleaners,) but they never wear them 
sailing. 
Preppies have perfect teeth. They 
do not have acne, eat huddle­
burgers, drink canned beer or own 
faded jeans. They prefer to carry 
hairbrushes rather than combs. ' Although preppies are common, at 
Notre Dame, they have not yet 
infiltrated the ROTC--not because 
they are pacifists--but because they 
do not want their ears to show. 
ln.fact, they do not play football, 
hockey, lacrosse or basketball for fear of messing up their hair. And while they do not usually compete in !contact sports, preppies aiways boast 
Brian Konzen 
that they were reatu L.ipLains in high 
school. Preppies do not ~weat. Preppies may also be identified by 

their speech patterns. If your roommate has an East Coast accent but is from Gary, he's probably a ·­preppie. They dislike nicknames and take classes in which the professor addresses them as ''sir'' or "mister". Strangely enough, they dislike the terms "bourgeoisie," "cocky," "social climber," "stuck­up" and "preppie." 
Finally, a preppie may often dis­cuss entering Medical School, even if his major is Marketing. He may also say, "Elect me ro thts class office" without saying that holding a class office will be impressive on his law school application. 
· Overall, there seems t? be great concern among l?repp1es about appearance and soc1al status. How­ever, when I take out my contact lenses, brush my teeth with a whitener and put down my Parkers Brothers pen, I wonder ifthere isn't a 
: bii·of preppie in us all. 

r• 
The Observer 

ND-SMC shuttle bus schedule changes 

Several changes have been ry; 6:50 p.m.--arrives at announced in the Saint Mary's· Campus View Apartments; 7:04 Notre Dame shuttle schedule. p.m.--arrives at Notre Dame Two off-campus routes, the 4 Apartment; 7:12p.m. arrives at 
p.m. daily run, and the 1 a.m. Notre Dame library; 7:25 p.m.-­weekend run, have been elimi­arrives at LeMans parking lot. nated. There will now be rwo 
Shuttle bus passes will beon-campus runs daily at 4 and available next Monday at the4:30p.m. 

Notre Dame Office of StudentThe 5 p.m. off-campus run will Activites and at the Saintnow make a stop at University Mary's c~shier. A 20-ride pass

Village. The schedule for the 6:30p.m. will cost $3. 
For further information, calloff-campus run has also been Saint Mary:s Co-ex ~ommis­changed. The new schedule is : sioner Maryellen Maccto (54~4)6 p.m.--leaves LeMans park­or Notre Dame Co-ex Commis­ing lot a Saint Mary's; 6:42 sioner Mike Flynn(8906). 

p.m.--leaves Notre Dame libra-· 

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
... WHC 

[continued from page 1) more than just the ~ross in-
Lewis leads Young Detnocrats
come. He hopes that 'through organizations which qualify for the fast the students will reflect aid under the-coaliuons poli-on hunger in the world. We 

support .for Senator Kenned..y 
cies. the charities are chosen hope we are not raising vending 
for their efficiency and low machine and Huddle sales. We 
overhead costs. Some of the hope for more than by jane Kirby Assol:iated Press NBC News the campaign organization to survey. The poll showed that include urging students, espec­
agencies which have benefitted ============= 
from funds in the past have Paul Lewis, a member of the only 192 of the Americans ially those from key early states been the Catholic Relief Ser­Man claims Notre Dame Young Democrats, polled approved of President to vote in their home primaries. vices, the Justice and Peace has begun a movement on Carter's performance, "the He also hopes to persu adethe Center in South Bend, and campus to support Senator lowest approval rating for any Senato'" to speak on campus. CROP, the educational branch mari.fuana seeds Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass. President since such polls be­Joe S1ovinec, current of the World Church Service. as the 1980 Democratic Presi­gan in the 1930's--including President of the Young Demo­
dential candidate. Richard Nixon's 24% just be­crats, and Sean Heffernan,
Another committee, Educa­tion, emphasizes the Coalition's 

.for bird Lewis estimated that close to fore his resignation." President-elect, both :1gree that commitment to more than fund­100 people responded to a According to Lewis, the Young Democrats will re­
SOUTH HADLEY*Mass. (AP) personal advertisement he ran ''Americans are looking for a main neutral throughout theraising. Its purpose is to make A holyoke man arrested on a
students aware of poverty in the charge of drunken driving said tn the Observer for four days. President who is a leader." He primaries. The organization 
world. The Education commit­He plans to hold the first bel i· ·ves Senator Kennedy is plans to invite President Carter, 
the marijuana seeds found in 
tee is planning a conference in organizational meeting for the th&t man. Senator Kennedy, and Govern­
his rocket were just the next 
October on South Africa and its mea for his pet love-birds-Yap group later this week. ' Although the movement on or Brown to speak on campus. 
Lewts is optimistic that campus is still in the planning Both Slovined and Heffernanapartheid system, and the Uni­and Dap.
-versity's investments in multi­Albert Paixao made thatan­Senator Kennedy will run, even stages, Lewis hopes to have the are currently uncommited and national corporations which nouncement Friday before thou~h he has not yet announc­groundwork laid for a success­support any and all campaign ed hts candidacy. Lewis ful campaign should the movements in the Young Dem­
have business in South Africa. Judge Ann Gibbons in Holyoke referred to a September 24 Senator announce his candida­ocrats, although they recognize Despite its other functions, the District Court, where he also 
issue of Time magazine which cy. the tremendous support for theWorld Hunger Coalition will was arraigned on a charge of cited the results of a recent Lewis expects the activities of Kennedy campaign on campus.
probably remain best known for possession of marijuana. 

tts fund-raising committee. He told her that sterilized The committee plans to begin marijuana seeds were fed to collection donations in front of birds as a cold remedy until the 


Mobile schoOls to reopen
the dining halls, so that it will seeds were declared illegal in be able to aid even more worthy the 1960s. charities. TheJudge found Paixao guilty 
tw-o w-eeks after .Frederic
Even with the prospect of on the drunken driving charge funds in excess of $10,000, and continued the possession 
MOBILE Ala. (AP) -to be distributed by city and with more than 30,700 Alabama coordinator Stegman looks to charge until March 
Mobile County officials said volunteer workers. families suffering storm losses. yesterday they plan to open The Food-for-Mobile effort be­In Mississippi, more than 300 schools on Tuesday after nearly gan last Thursday night after homes were destroyed and
MONTICELLO Cf.,EANERS 

rwo weeks of being closed due Gov. Bob James made a state­3,300 damaged, with 4,487 to Hurricane Frederic, which wide televised appeal. families taktng losses, said
Laundr_y and Dr_y Cleaning Service 

struck the Gulf Coast. Food was collected at National Gaddis. The announcement came as Guard armories, churches and In Florida, Gaddis said, 65
Students laundr_y a hassle? 

tons of non-perishable food­some fast-food restaurants. homes were destroyed and 650 stuffs donated in Alabama and The first truckloads were rolling damaged, affecting 730 fami­
10 lbs .for '2.50 (pressing included) 

Georgia arrived by truck to help toward M oblie less than 24 lies. feed hurricane victims, many of. hours later. whom remain homeless or Many of the collection points 
without utilities. remained open through the Shipments were stored at the weekend.
phone 289-0049 441 E. Howard 
Mon-Sat 9:00-6:30 

Municipal Auditorium and the James' plea for assistance was 
City Hall in suburban Prichard echoed in Georgia, where At­
...Nuclear 
lanta Mayor Maynard Jackson urged ciuzens there to join in the relief effort. 

[continued from page 1] 
-
The Atlanta office of the

TUNES CITY PROMOTIONS 
of nuclear power, rep1actng ItDepartment of Health, Educa­
PROUDLY PRESENTS 
with strick conservation andtion and Welfare opened a food 
I 
-increased use of alternativecollection center at a shopping energy sources, like solar pow­center. The head of the office, Sara Craig, said the donations er. 
The organizers said the rally
would be airlifted to Mobile. 

and concerts were the firstA spokesman for the Red events of an attempt to makeCross disaster office in Mobile, nuclear power a central issue in Phil Gaddis, said Sunday that the 1980 presidential cam­18,706 families had registered paigns.
for assistance. 

Most of the money will beGaddis said the Red Cross has 
AlDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1979 
used for the campaign effortspent nearly $1. 5 million in the and other activities envision­
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Mobile area, not counting the ed by the MUSE Foundation, 
cost of operating shelters set up which is incorporated in New
TICKETS: $5.50 ADVANCE. $6.50 DAY OF SHOW 
AVAILABLE AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE 
immediately after Frederic York as a not-for-profit organi­
AND RIVER CITY RECORDS. U.S. 31 NORTH 
struck on Sept. 12. zation, David Fenton, a 

ELKHART: SUSPENDED CHORD. PIERRE MORAN MALL 
He said the latest damage co-director of MUSE has esti­
NILES: THE RECORD JOINT. BELL PLAZA 
survey showed more than 1,200 mated the concerts should net a
MISHAWAKA: BOOGIE RECORDS. COLLEGE SQUARE 
homes destroyed and more than least $750,000 for the founda­
AND JUST FOR THE RECORD. 100 CENTER 
30,000 damaged in .Albama, tion .. ... ... '
-
The Observer -SportsBoard American l.algue EastBaseball w I Pet. GB x-Baltimore 100 54 .649 Milwaukee "91 64 .587 9V2Natlonall.algue Boston 87 67 .565 13East New York 83 71 .539 17W L Pet. GB Detroit 83 73 .532 18Montreal 93 60 .608 -Cleveland 79 76 .510 21VzPittsburgh 93 61 .604 Vz Toronto 52 104 .333 49St. Louis 83 71 .539 10% WestPhiladelphia 81 75 .519 13% Cal ifomia 85 71 .545Chicago 78 77 .503 16 Kansas City 82 74 .526 3New York 56 98 .364 'JTI!t Minnesota 81 75 .519 4West Texas 78 78 .500 7Cincinnati 88 68 .564 -Chicago 68 86 .442 16Houston 86 69 .555 1Vz Seattle 65 91 .417 20Los Angeles 76 80 .487 12 Oakland 53 103 .340 32San Francisco 69 87 .442 19 x-tlinched division titleSan Diego 65 91 .417 23 Sunday's GamesAtlanta 61 92 .399 25% New York 7, Toronto 5Sullday'a games Boston 2-2. Detroit 1-3, 2nd game 10 inningsMontreal 7, Philadelphia 4 Cleveland 4-1, Baltimore 3-3St. Louis 6-3, New York 3-2 Milwaukee 3, Minnesota 7St. Louis 4, New York 4, 10 innings California 6, Texas 1San Francisco 2, Atlanta 1 Kansas City 4, Oakland 2Pittsburgh 6, Chicago 0 Seattle 8, Chicago 3Cincinnati 7, Houston 1 Monday's GameLos Angeles 5, San Diego 2 Kansas City (Gura 12-11) at CaliforniaTlllay'sPf1181 (Ryan 15-13), (n)New York (Swan 12-13) at C!ticago (Lamp Only game scheduled11-9) Montreal (Schatzeder 1D--4 and May 1Q-3) at Pittsburgh (Ellis 3-7 and Blyleven 11-5), 2, t-n Houston (WilliamS 4-6 and Forsell 11-6) at Atlanta (McWilliams 2-2 and Solomon 6-13), Tennis 2, t-n . St. Louis (Vukovich 14-10) at Philadelphia Purdue 8, St. Mary's 1(Lerch 1()-12), n St. Mary's 6, Butler 3Only Games Scheduled The outcome was not the most [continued from page 10] imponant result of this contest for Notre Dame. The Irish had a they beg~ closing down Love­rebinh yesterday. Senior Tim  Monday, September 24, 1979-page 9 West Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 94 88 Los Angeles 2 2 0 .500 63 78Football New Orleasn 1 3 0 .250 97 115 San Francisco 0 4 0 .000 80 106 National Football League Sunday's Games ~ c'3uffalo 46, New York Jets 31 -1American Conference Houston 30, Cincinnati 27, OT J:•0East Detroit 24, Atlanta 23 , ~~~­w l T Pet. PF PA Mi~nesota 27, Green Bay 21, OT mz .. Miami. 4 0 0 1.000 86 45 New England 27, San Diego 21 zo ..New England3 1 0 .750 116 54 Pittsburgh 17, Baltimore 13 ell. ~Buffalo 2 2 0 .500 123 91 Kansas City 35, Oakland 7 X • N.Y. Jets 1 3 0 .250 97 137 Washington 17, St. Louis 7 z!::Baltimore 0 4 0 .000 49 73 Denver 37, Seattle 34 o­".. Central -nMiami 31, Chicago 16 >XPittsburgh 4 0 0 1.000 95 54 'Philadelphi 17, New York Giants 13 z­.. Cleveland = 3 0 0 1.000 65 56 New Orleans 30, San Francisco 21 ..>~Houston 3 1 0 .750 86 98 Tampa Bay 21, Los Angeles 6 .z .:­Cincinnati 0 4 0 .000 65 111 Monday's Game 0)West 0).Dallas at Cleveland, (n) -0Denver 3 1 o .750 76 64 INTERHALL • San Diego 3 1 0 .750 111 72 •Kansas City 2 2 o .500 79 54 " Dillon 34, Howard 0 Oakland 1 3 0 .250 51 109 Alumni 14, Pangborn 0 Seattle 1 3 o .250 87 99 Morrissey 7, Fisher 0National Conference Sorin 8, St. Ed's 3East Off-campus 28, Holy Cross 0Dallas 3 0 0 1.000 67 54 Carroll 14, Cavanaugh oPhiladelphia 3 1 0 .750 76 58 Washington 3 1 0 .750 98 60 St. Louis 1 3 0 .250 76 77 N.Y. Giants 0 4 0 .000 44 94 VolleyballCentral Tampa Bay 4 0 0 1.000102 58 Chicago 2 2 0 .500 68 65 Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 74 96 Detroit 1 3 0 .250 74 112 Green Bay 1 3 0 .250 62 73 Cross-Country ND CROSS-COUNTRY TIME TRIALS 4 MILE COURSE• • • Irish 1) Hatherly -19:22 2) Novak, Filosa -19:33 4) anyone.'' Bicicchi -19:41 5) Fix-19:46 6) Cato-20:07 7) Slattery, Cooper, Aragon -20:13 10(There is no winning streak on Mogan, Miranda -20:22 12) McMahon · the line in 1979 for the Irish, but 20:25 13) Maley-20:46 14) Bartrand-20:58 there are more than twenty 15) McCarthy-21:00 16) Allen -21:24 17)  
21:37 
20) Martigan -21:48 21 ( Sheehy ­21:55 22( O'Donnell-22:14 23) O'Leary­22:37 24) Grandy -23:37 



joy's operating space. Fullback Nello Caltabiano forced Notre Dames's Kahale to hurry a shot on a break with five minures to play and then turned the ball upfield. Rich Wohlfon of Loyola picked up the loose ball and launced a high pass fromt' the right side. Through a niaze of defenders, Ciany headed the ball passed Cullather for a 2-1 lead with 4:28 remaining. Tt seened that Notre Dame's efforts had all been for naught. 
But as Kevin Lovejoy said after the game, the Irish "were just tired of losing'' Kahale booted a centering pass imo a pack of Notre Dame and Loyola bodies and somehow Mark Luetkehans deflected the ball to Sabitus for a goal with 1:42 to play .. 
Neither team could score in the two ten-minute ovenime sesstons and the game ended tied at 2-2. 

Nauman commented ''These last two weeks were the worst, wh had lost all our confidence, so we really needed this one to get it back." 
Definsive stalwart Tom Crotty, who made an emotional pre­game pep talk to his teammates, was relieved. "This is the best I've felt all year," he said happily, "There's only so much Rich (Coach Hunter) can do. We couldn't keep waiting for some­one else to take charge. It was UI_> ~o each indiv!dual to dig wtthin and do tt himself. ' ' 

Lovejoy agreed saying,''Each guy has to be that one guy. • • He also noted, "We've got to say something about those fans. They were out there when we need them." ·'Everyone played well," Hunter told his players, "and if· we maintain this pace the rest of the year, we can play with 
games left in the soccer season. Now that Notre Dame has found the confidence, they have the chance to regain the consisten­cy that made them winners a year ago. 
Soccer notes--Lovejoy scored both goals in the Purdue game wit~ Mai getting credit for an asstst. At Purdue, the Irish squandered a 2-1 second half lead. Players injured over the weekend were ] im Stein with an ankle spain and Mike Mai, who sustatned a hip pointer. The next Irish home game will be Wednesday afternoon at 4 
p.m. on Stepan Field against Kalamazoo College. 
$1.00 
Schmidt-21:25 18 Brassil-21:27 19) Olson­
£1J~cpQattfu attd

1iR gQowetts 
l=on €V€RY occas1on 
Unreasonable Prices 
Just bJal 284-4841 R€(jUlaR BORIO(j hOURS Bas€m€nt o~ l€ffians 


ND/smC atvdent ch.tb acc•pt•d lot up to S20.00 OYIH putchaa• CltROunt · 
Op•n 10 to 10, 7 days a wMk 
R.lvet City R.ecotda 
50970.o~s: 31 North
,. 
. 

3 mil•• nof!h of campus 
lH'"'IAJ Jo.\.1-.t• J.;oJJ.•~ . ...J"'..,\JJzr-.,;.JL c,": ... •.d.j,·JU

·t>JJJJI,Vl -,;u .t.l (IOU,'..!(\~ l~.G~l 
.~•ll-'>c;J.~ :1: ~nxN'I£:~ 001},(1(_
.-~on 



Monday, September 24, 1979 -page 10 

Scott Lancaster and Lovejoy Loyola's offensive thrust us," he believed,-"and that
fco,Jtinued from page 12] 

ramm~d it home. were broken down by passing 
was a big reason for our (poor)

Notre Dame continued to and the work of Irish co-cap­
Kevtn LoveJOY, who play."
sustain first half pressure as tains Tom Crotty and Time
dominated the midfield area The second half was a more 
yesterday, staked the Irish to a 1-0 lead on a headball at the

• • • Irish 
4:19 mark. Lovejoy' eighth goal of the year was assisted by Mike Mai. Mai lofted a pass in front of the Loyola net that was mishandled by goalkeeper 


Molarity 
NI >Slwl#ttl L.mion tiNi .~lrJJh"'' Promnt;mu
,.,.,.""' 
BLACKFOOT 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets S8.50 and S7.50 
On sale now at ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office 

Consisting of: 2 USC GA Tixs 2 Kansas Tixs 1 Mum 2 Homecoming Dance Tixs 
(One per person) 



PACKETS 
Jim Sabitus and freshman Mark 
Luetkehans teamed with Love­
joy and Mai on numerous 
passing plays through a some­
what surprised Loyola defense. 
However, the Irish could not 
put the ball In the net. 
by Michael Molinelli 

KENMAR, 
INC. 
lwN '/'.,..;flirt." at tlw lowt•.'.;t prit't'N 011 ('(1111 Jm."!!! 
Nt•t•d a shirt /'or nmr tlorm or t·luiJ? 
t'OII tat·t 
N'f/UJ!Vl '1'0'/'A/UJ 
!ll6 i"'allllt'r 4684 
or 
!UA U1\ 1-1~11 HH~Ut; 
!lO I Flwllu'r 69 70 
llad.·-to-Sdwo/ ·"Jwt·ia I 00 T-s,irts An r t•olor ·"hirt 1l'it" a I l'olor tit'."'~" 
ou/y '.'t7;) ,,.,. N,;,., 
Nauman. This pair denied the quick-footed Greyhound attack­ers any access to goalie Brian Cullather's cage. Loyola's coach Jim Burlington was impressed by Notre Dame. ''They put a lot of pressure on 




The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  32  Be station­ 
5  Expression Storeroom  ary, as a ship  
10  Cool drinks  33  Solomon  
14 15 16 17 19  Concept Lotto's kin Low water Tune-up position Swiss  34 35 36  island Comparative ending -corny as ... Express  
20  stream Sixth  37 38  Fire god Place for  
sense: abbr.  flowers  
21 22  Bitter drug Interweave  39 40  -·do-well Pale  
24  Atlantic  41  Tasmanian,  
25 26 29  City sight Tendon Vipers Low gable  44 45  for one Certain fly Arab chief· lain: var.  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: -
even match. Striker Nick 
Mangione worker many balls 
between the Irish defenders for 
scoring chances, although his 
play d1d not net Loyola a goal. 
Brian Ciany was a major prob­
lem for Notre Dame, as he hit 
the crossbar twice with head 
ers. 
Notre Dame squandered plenty of opportunities as well. Jim Sabitus was prevented from scoring an easy goal by an offsides call. Sami Kahale bare­ly missed another time when his breakaway shot sailed wide with twenty mmutes left in the game. 

With 17:41 left, though the scoring -drought ended when a scramble for the ball in the Irish goal area was secured by Loyola's Ciany and lifted past Cullather for a 1-1 tie. , 
The Greyhounds appeared to come alive at this moment as 
[continued on page 9] 
46 Bridge bid 24 Animals 47 President, at home 
at times 25 Separate 49 Input 26 Court plea 50 Poker term 27 ''The March 53 "-, Brute" of-" 54 GlultOIJY 28 Postal ser­
and pride vice office 57 Repentant 29 Dad: Lat. 
one 30 Hawaiian 58 Bizarre geese 59 Entrance 31 Threefold 60 Bruits 33 Beef 61 Ms. Garson critter 62 Ancient 36 Loser, 
Iranian usually 
37 "-Death" DOWN by Grieg NFL re­40 Analyze ceiver 42 Love 
2 Poems affairs 3 Harvest 43 Bride's 4 Pa word 5 Poplars 44 Steele's 6 Opera good journal 
guy 46 Chaplain 7 London 47 Ms. Miles gallery 48 Small case 8 Chemical 49 1492, i.e. ending 50 Faction 
9 Hall 51 Arthurian 10 Chaplet lady 11 Inert load 52 Princely 12 Noble family • 13 Grsf-55 Switz., 18 Nile city Ger., etc. 23 Black 56 Snead or 
cuckoo Rayburn 

© 1979 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
. Purdue

Will Go on Sale TUESDAY • • 
safety, but the Irish could not [continued from page 12] mount a seriout scoring drive. 
"We are disappointed in our loss,_'' Devine admitted, "but

September 24, 1979 at 7:45pm 
ses, including a scoring strike we had players that did well
to split end Bart Burrell. The Irish got a break later in too. We have to put back the
Location to be announced 

pieces into our team and see iND 640 AM atT:30 pm on from center on an attempted 
the game when a high snap 
who we have the field on put by)oe Linville resulted in a Monday.'' 

The Observer -Sports 
Monday, September 24, 1979 -page 11 


[continued from page 12] as well as we did. That helped He's (Herrmann) a helluva who'd get their seven, eight
alot." player, and we weren't as sharp yards at a crack. He's really game, and keep the Irish de~ And when Hermann did as we'd like to be. tough to defense. . fense off balance. decide to throw, he didn't have "You can't take anything He also has one more year of
... Herrmann 
''Our running game was going to rely on the home run ball. away from him. He does an schooling. And when Norte very well,'' said Herrmann, ''They really hurt us with excellent job. For instance, the Dame hosts Purdue next year,who completed 14 of 20 passing those 15-yarders," lamented secondary could have his three Mark Herrmann will be one attempts for 158 yards. "We Irish strong safety Steve Cichy. main receivers coven~d, and memory the Irish won't be able didn't think we'd be able to run "They didn't hurt us deep. he""' d look for the backfield men to forget. 
Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue In which the ad is run. Tile 0..._office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  
Need ride to AnnArbor/Detroit area Mon or Tues of this week. Please call Pascal 3429.Notices Female roommate wanted at CampusUsed Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. View. $100/month 272-6244.!H. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. Niles. 683-2888. Help Wanted: HERBIE'S DELl NEEDS DRIVER FOR CAMPUS ROUTE. 1D-12 VOLUNTEERS NEEDED--Tutor high hrs/wk. Good pay. Must have transpor­school sophomore In English. Tuesdays tation. 234-6519 and Thursdays after 3 p.m. Tutor 3 Indian CETA Program students. Colonial Caterers at Century Center ages 21-28, studying for the G. E. D. test. needs part-time bartenders, busboys, 1. ndian persuasion preferred but not cashiers, waiters, waitresses and kitchen required. personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon help 40 volunteers needed to serve food to needed most. Apply in kitchen across senior citizens for the Harvest House from entrance 4 in rear of Century · Fest1va1 on October 16. Would be needed Center. '1 :15 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Transportation provided for those without. Contact I need aride home on 9/28n9 to Toledo. Volunteer Services--7308. Please call Mary 4084. -----------------­1,'yping in home. Fast, accurate, reason· able. Close by. Call 272·4105 after 5 p.. m. For Sale --------------­.JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS: Midwest The crate shipment has arrived! Officialwill have a representative in the volun· "Peaches" record crates are now in stock reer Services Office, LaFortune Center, at all four River City Record locations. tm Mondar· Sept. 24, 1979 from 1to 4:30 Great for bOoks, records, tapes. maga­p.m. Fee free to stop in and talk with zines, plants, or whatever! Visit RCR,t1er. 50970 US 31 North, next to Al's Super Market. Open 1D-10, 7 days a weekIV1orrissey Loan Fund--Student loans $20 2n·4242. to $200. 1percent interest charge. Open M·F. 11:30-12:30. Basement of LaFor· I have oneGA ticket to sell for the South•une. Carolina game. Reasonable price. Call Chri~ 4640.LIBERAL PROTESTANT CHURCH WANTS TO INVITE YOU to join us for 69 Dodge Coronet. Green automatic,Church School 9:30 and worship 10:45. extra clean. Must sell. $650. Call Anne'-irst Christian Church on the corner of 7043 between 9-5.Eddy and Jefferson 1 mile south of N.D. L·ampus. Rides available: call 289-2417 8 a'11 to 4 pm Mon-Fri. ----------------­TicketsJ1LL ARTS AND LETTERS STUDENTS: ~>enior Bar Smoker--Monday, Sept. 24 Need 1 ticket for Michigan State (GA or f, om 9-2. Be there!! student) Call Ann 277-4976.-·---------­FIPM PRODUCTIONS announces the $$$Wanted: 2 GA tix for 2 CSC nuns.b-Joklng of the band for the first time ever Either Navy or South Carolina. Annin this area for your formals and special m-4976. -~casions. Call Jim at 2n-1891. NNeed 2tix to the USC game. Call collectT,J WHOMEVER REMOVED THE in evening (303) 722-9921. '70 AlumnisPURSE FROM THE STUDENT UNION OFFICE: PLEASE RETURN MY Going home for October break? Sell yourCHECKBOOK* GLASSES* WALLET* USC tix to 2SMC ladies. We need 2 GAETC ... NO QUESTIONS ASKED!IIII tix and 2Student tix. Willing to pay your[THE ROBERT PALMER TIX ARE A price. Call 4349 (SMC) Cathy or Leslie.B-DAY PRESENT.]PLEASEI 1NEED. a st~dent OlGA iicket for the Georgia Tech game. Call Elizabeth atLost & Found­(SMC) 5146$$$1 will pay YOUR PRICE!!! LOST: A brown leatner-IIKe overcoat m lhe North Dining Hall after the Michigan Attention: Will trade 1 student USC game last Saturday. If found please call ticket for any 2 badly needed MSU tix. 3565. Terms negotiable. Rose 4037 (SMC) OST: 1 pr. glasses (rimless frames) in Need 1 GA USC ticket!!! Call Dan 8387. ,!ue case. If found please call 234-6373. .IEWARD!!! HAVE TICKETS???Will pay$$$$ 1 or 2 · GA any home games. Call 7267. Jacki. LOST: Gold cross pen with name Jngraved, Thurs morn. Sentimental Wanted: 1 USC ticket Call Chuck 1alue, REWARD. Call 7854. 232-5594. ~OST: red wallet containing photos and 'HELP! Without tix, 2 "HTHs" won't 0m sot ID. Reward. Call Karen-2179. come. Need 1student or GA tix for both MSU and Georgia Tech. Call Rich or Mitch at 6721 . For Rent Please help me out. need 2 Mich St tix. Call after 11p.m. Fran 8113. Graduate Women: For exchange: Will trade 2Southern Cal.Now's your chance to move Into the Student tix for 2 Ga. Tech GA tix. CallGrace-O'Hara Townhouses. Available Bill or Dave 272-1208.mmediately--call Pat. 8110. $40 for 2 Mlch St tickets. Call Mary atA:>t. for rent--832 NO AVe. #10 call Jim, 4-1-47118.i507 or 287-9872 or Mike, 8382. 1month. LADIES IN DISTRESS desperately needLl VE FREE during September $n.50 per 4-6 GA MSU tix. Call Pennee or Laura.month afterwards Notre Dame apts.--call SMC-4963.Jamie 267-9872. Offering one USC ticket for one MichiganBartender, waiters. and waitresses. State-inquire 7879.A;Jply in person. Serious inquiries only. China Garden Restaurant, 900 Ireland Will trade 4 GA's to Georgia Tech for 4Road. GA's to MSU. Call Jeff 8764. Part-time help wanted, all shifts--cooks Need GA's and student tix to all homewaitresses, busbOys. Penny's, US 31 N. games. Call Beth 4-1-5710 or Kate277-0022, ask tor Mrs. Sharp or Mrs. 4-1-5220.Eller. Need one ticket to Tenn. DESPERATELYRoommate(s) $20 weekly, includes utili­call Mary Ann 4-1-4347.ties. Inquire 410 N. Hill Street Pagliacci Restaurant. Need GA tickets for Southern Cal game. Will pay big bucks. Call Jane 283-8012.Wanted Badly need at least 6 MSU GA tix. Will be shipped t{) Iran if i don't get them. Call 8648 ask for Pat.Need United % fare coupons. Brian 8693.  COUSIN FROM AUSTRALIA WANTS TO SEE FOOTBALL Prefers to see S. Cal. Will pay in American dollars. Keep cousin Cedrick from being bummed. Mick-8212. Need 2 or more GA tix for Michigan State. Call Kathy 4776 (SMC). BIG BUCKS!!! I need two GA tix to any home game. Call Dave at 8782 now! !I I need two tickets to the Tann. game. Please call Bill at 8444 now. Ned needs 2-4 GA tickets for MSU: Mr and Mrs. Ned are coming down. Will pay good. 8897. Need 1 student or 2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech and/or USC. Will trade tix or pay cash. 277-5261 . If you have two Navy GA tickets you would like to sell, I'd like to talk to you. Bill1175. Desperately need 1 student or GA ticket to the Mich St. game. Call Dave at 6939. Will pay $120 for four decent USC tix. Also need student ticket for Mich. St. Call Bob 288-2484. $$$Need 2-4 GA tix to any home game. Especially MSU. Call Pat at 1651.$$$$$$ Need GA'S TO ANY HOME GAMES. Call 4-1-5710. Need one student ticket for Michigan State, call Patsy 5710. I need 2 GA tickets for the USC game. Call Bill at 8288. Money no obJect!! Need 2or 4 GA tickets for Georgia tach. Bltz 6931. Need STUDENTTickets for Southern Cal. BITZ 6931. Does anyone out there have 1 GA tix for Mich. State? If you do, please call Andy at 1959. Thanks WANTED: 2 or mor~ tickets, must be grouped together, for any N D home football games--willing to buy at premi­um price. Call 287-3311. $$$$$Need 2-4 GA tickets to any home game--especially MSU Call Pat at 1651. I really need 3-4 MSU tlx. (GA) PLEASE call Diane. 7906. Need 2 Michigan State GA tix. Mike 1623. Help some Seniors. Our parents are finally coming to NO and we need MSU GA tix. Will pay our Sr. Bar money!!! Call Dan or John at 3322. Need 2 MSU tix. Call 2n-0333. Need 2 Michigan State GA tickets. m-3540. If I don't get 4GA tickets to Georgia Tech my old man has promised to KILL my DOG (poor Barney!) You wouldn't want that guilt on your head, would you? Money is no object!!! It is amatter of life or death. Call Crash at 8627. P.S. That's Barney, not Barbe! $$Need many Michigan State tix$$$$$ Call John 1721. Need 2GA tix to Georgia Tech. Call Rob 234-5821. Need tickets to any home football game, especially Navy. Call1740. Need 1-4 Michigan State tix. Will pay big $$$$. Call Bill at 287-6325. TICKETS I need you ...to sell me one Michigan State ticket--student or GA. Please call Debbie at 6888. Need student tickets for Georgia Tech. Also, student or GA tickets to USC Mary Ellen. 2n-4966. 'Must have 4 GA tickets for Mich St. will pay your price. Call Rick 8698. Two Californians are coming for USC game. They will have my hide if I don't get tickets for them Call Susie or Teri at 4825 (SMC) Have cop for brother who will arrest me if he does not get 2-4 GA MSU tix. Call Pat 8921 .  Not coming back for Oct. 27 game at the need ride to pittsburgh weekend of end of break? Sell me your ticket!! I need Friday, October 5. Will be happy to share one GA and as many student tix as you driving and expenses. Please call Beth at can spare. Will pay$$$!! Call Megan 8098. 4153 or 4161 at SMC. I don't want to go home Need GA tickets for S. Carolina and Navy Lancelot call1677. Freshmen year we shared 1D sticker National Bank of Parents willing to pay lines, Chern lab and study breaks. Last BIG BUCKS for 2 MSU GA tix. Call Bill year brought "the big choice" Chinese 234-3301. food, and intergrals. This year, early Valentines, and promises for the future. 'need 2GA or Student tix any home game 'happy Anniversary plus one! Love you for wedding present. Call Dan 1621. much. . Will trade any home ticket (excp MSU) Kathy, Katy, and Jamie, and$$ for 1 USC. Call 8164. Thanks for the great welcome. One who's been Need one Mich. State GA or Student there and back ticket. Call Jan 6179. Vote: John Kobunsl!l for Business Col­$$Need 2-4 GA tickets for any home lege Advisory Council. game. Pairs of 2 must be together. Call 272-5072 between 10-10:30 p.rn. Tired of your school shoes? Find out what it's like to be in a chemist's a Desperately need tickets for Mich. State poet's, or a teacher's shoes--College' to game. Call Ruth 27~·3513. Career Days SMC Sept 23-27 . Wanted 1 GA or Student ticket for GA My Gorgeous Greek, Tech. Call MB 8060 or Dan 277-0333. I've missed you! I'm looking forward to seeing you (nudge, nudge, ... Desired: Any 1 USC ticket. Call Joe at know what I mean, ...say no more!) The 8192. feeling is still mutual as in Ormaho. See you Sat. Yazoo!! DesperatE!!! Need two GA Mich. St. Lovesick, tickets. Call Jane 6372. Mathematician Desperately need four to six GA tickets Cheri in 803, for Mich St. willing to pay $$$. Parents Happy two years!! Love you much , hon. will disown me if I don't get them. Call Your SMC Chick 1002 or1736. Ask Beth Willard why singles and fire Money no object for 2 GA USC tix. Call (escape) ladders go so well together. Larry at 232-0384. ALSAC invites all Arts and Letters students to a SMOKER at Senior Bar,Desperately need 5 GA tix to Tonn!! Call Mon. Sept. 24. Come on out!!John at 3656. What can you do with a Liberal Arts degree?? Denise Caranaugh e;,n tellPersonals you--College to Career Days, SMC Sun. Sept 23-8:00 Carroll Hall.Need Southern Cal tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Joe after 10. 233-6024. 1------------------­Monotheistic DOCTRINE of Reincarna­tion in the Torah, the Prophets and theNeed f.lA tix to Georgia Tech. Call Joe Gospels. Write: The Truth of Islam,8694. P.O. Box 4494, South Bend, IN 46624. Need 2or 4 Michigan St Tickets. Call Ed What can you get for a dollar?? A dollar1222. will only get you one load of smelly sicks, one cycle of drying, and your clother willThere once was agirl called Crasher, who still be wetSfought ofl old Neal, a masher, But she put down new roots, Sinking in a career choice? Fathom outwhen she caught sight of tall Boots, the decisions at College to Career Days,Only to fall for Bob the 100-yd dasher!! SMC Sept 23·27.Have agood weekend, Crasher?? Blitzed To a Super St. Ed's Senior Stud, Need ride to Pittsburgh, weekend of Mon coeur n'appartient pas a une autre, Friday, Oct. 5. Will be happ11 to share il t'appartient. Toujours, reste dans rna driving and expenses. Please call Beth at vie, s'il te plait. 8098. ' Trying not to get jealous in 331. LADIES, Dear 331, Be wary, oh foxes, of sweet Jim and John Didn't you mean un autre???? D, On's tan, blonde and handsome, the Many thanks to the Special Friends that other's his bro, made my 21st such a special day: Hailing from Texas, now living In Dillon, Bananna cake-·daquiri squad, lake This pair of L.andsharks Is ready and squad, 4N Lewis (best ever), and the willing!! breakfast brigade. But the car that they drive Is not what It Love ya all, Pat, Tricia, Patricia may seem, A statlonwagon converted Into THE Deedee and Petey, Happiness forever to MATIRESS MACHINE!!!! th~s young Roman conceived c;mong the Thanks for the voulez-vous, Jim!! rums. The Godmothar Sean, RI missed the big two oh, hope It was Flohappy. Love and Kisses, Z RosRose LYONS IS RED HOT THANKS TO Rosem DOUG* SULLY* AND BERNIE* TODAY Rosema WE GO FOR WIN 12. Rosemar RosemaryTAKE NOTE!! This is your very own personal.Greta Garbanzo Is alive and well and YOur loyal employee, C.P. living in Walsh Hall. Magic Bus 12 was: Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC Mr and Mrs Old Style and their kids, 18 tickets. Call Mark 1478. people, frat houses, MacDonalds, climb­ing flag poles, grahamula jam, buzz Help! Desperately need 2-6 GA MSU jumping on the car, deep-the sophomore,tickets. Will pay your price. Call Sheila at "You'll have to move; you're blocking the 7924. view, sleeping on the hill, our purdue friend, getting in the game free. music byDesperately need two GA tix for Mich St. Chuck Brown, football, Chuck's lead into Call Tim at 3578 or 3591. songs, sidewalk parking. Irish jigs, gooses, no brakes, how 'bout you?"Two poor girls desperate to go home early Danny, you are the best!! Will the maoicfor Oct break must unload 2 USC tickets. bu_s make a trip down to Tennessee???Best offer for either one or the pair. Maureen 5224 or Kate 5220 (SMC). Mo Cogan-Welcome to legality!!Need Mich St tickets. Call John 1851. Apt. 207 I will do anything for studen1 and/or GA Dad and Ted, tix to MSU and/or USC please!! Call Sailing lessons at 5a.m. sharp$ Be there. ;Steve ~96 soon! ·The General  

. f·~\..i ..l.' ..·~_, ..r-,-, :--,~·-J',rJ ~t: . ·,rl·~·..... •.. ..... _...!I£N_.,_,.,,'I.W"¥......•~•..-.... ..IW.~'Jtl'~·~~·-..•~· ·~ ..,;..•"' .•<> 'r I ~-~ .•.• .,.. ·~··' ~'f.,' • r, 


~~----------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------~·--------------·---------~-----------------­


Monday, September 24, 1979 -page 12 
Waymer hurt 


Purdue do-wns injury-riddled ND 
by Mark Perry bruised knee, and Boilermaker came back with a drive of their Sports Editor quarterback Mark Herrmann own to take the lead, as Male took advantage of an inexperi­connected on a 40-yard field 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Incl.-­enced secondary to guide Pur­goal. The major story of the Notre due to their come-from-behind With 2:48 left in the first half, Dame season thus far has been win, played before the largest the Irish took over on their own mJuries. Irish coach Dan football crowd in Indiana his­35 yard line. Knafelc, Notre Devine has mentioned numer­tory (70,567) at Ross-Ade Stadi-Dame's .number four quarter­
ous times that he has 19 urn. back, carne in, and the Irish scholarship athletes our for the After the Irish rook a 20-7 unleashed their second trick season. Quarterback Rusry lead early in the first half, play. 
Lisch was unable to play on Herrmann lead Purdue to two Knafelc handed the ball off to Saturday because of ankle touchdowns, using a mixture of flanker Pete Holohan, who rol­sprain, and six other players running and short passing, and led out to the right side. did not make the Purdue trip a timely interception by Boiler Holohan, a former quarterback, because of injuries. free safety Marcus McKinnie pulled up and lofted a pass to But an injury to one of the set up another score. freshman Tony Hunter. The 
players that was available to "Dave (Waymer) is our cap­ball was underthrown against start on Saturday probably had tain and team leader,'' Devine the 10 mph wind, but Hunter more to do with Notre Dame's said, "But to lay all the blame caught the pass at the Purdue 
28-22 loss to Purdue than any of· on his back-up isn't fair, be­31-yard line. the previous ones. cause he didn't throw the After the Irish drive stalled, 
Notre Dame cornerback Dave interception. We have to be Male came in to kick a 32-yard Wayrr.er, a tri-captain for the able to play over our injuries.'' field goal, his six consecutive Irish and a pre-season All­But Devine admitted that three-pointer, aod Notre Dame
Notre Dame tight end Nick pass, !Photo by Dave Rum-

American, missed the entire injuries have nurt the Irish. went into the locker room with a
Vehr prepares to receive Tim Bach] 

second half because of a "We can't play the kind of 13-7 halftime lead.
Koegel's fiv_e _yard touchdown 

football we would like to play, But Devine admitted after which is to run right over the game that "you can't win them.'' by fooling them. You have to 
"I have to give credit to outphysical them.'' After the
Herrmann's memory sparks Boilers 
Purdue. They played. a fine Irish opened their 20-7 lead on a game and have a good team. 62-yard drive, with Nick Vehr They have a sound defense, a scoring on a five-yard pass from hy Paul Mullaney you've beaten the best. more in the second half, and it good, strong running game, Koegel, Purdue began to out­
Assistant Sports Editor "We niade some big proved to be successful.'' and they can overpower people. physical the Irish. mistakes and some bonehead Herrmann threw to his right They are far more physical After Male booted the follow­plays," Youn~ continued. side consistently in the second than we are.'' ing kickoff out ot the end zone, 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Incl.--It "But our emotton overrode the half. Purdut 's winning touch­Still the Irish held their own Purdue unleashed a devistating remained so clear in Mark technical mistakes." down, in fact, was a six-yard until the middle of the third 80-yard drive. Herrmann con­Herrmann's mind. The emotion swung to Pur­toss from Herrmann to wtde-out quarter. With Lisch out, nected on three third down Two years ago, barely out of due's side late in the third Bart Burrell, who had slipped Devine resorted to using two passes to bring the Boilers high school, the young Hoosier quarter, and the defense got open in the right corner of the quarterbacks, juniors Tim Koe­down to the Notre Dame five­had the type of day quarterback the credit for that movement. endzone. gel and Mike Courey, for most yard line and three straight rlream of--24 completions for ''Our defense definitely ''Waymer is their best of the game, trying to keep the carries by tailback Wally]ones 
351 yards. played its best game ot the defensive bark,'' echoed Boilermakers off-balance. put Purdue into the end zone. For Herrmann, however, It year," Young, whose squad is Young. ''But I don't know if his Two "gadget" plays in the Momentum on their side, was more of a Nightmare, now 2-1, said. "They caught us injury made that much of a first half led the way to two Purdue quickly grabbed the because his performance asleep on a couple of plays. Our difference.'' Notre Dame scores. After John lead away from the Irish. On proved to be in vain. The Irish, defense has a lot of pride, Notre Dame coach Dan Devine Hankerd recovered a Purdue third and 20 on the Notre Dame 111 their last trip to Ross-Ade though, and they hadn't been at agreed that Waymer's absence fumble on the Boilermaker 17, Koegel tried to pass for the Stadium, railed behind Joe their best. This was the first was felt, but by no means could 46-yard line, the Irish drove first down. but McKinnie steo­Montana from 24-14 halfume week that (Keena) Turner, (Cal­be fault Boushka's play. down within field ~oal range. ped in front of Hunter at the 
deficit to win, 31-24. vin) Clark and (Kevin) Motts ''Dave is our captain and very, Notre Dame placektcker, Chuck 44Jard line, grabbed the ball Memones of that game were have all been able to practice very, much our team leader," Male, who connected on four an returned tt to the eight. vividly implanted in the minds together because of illnesses Devine said. "But to lay blame field ~oals in the Irish win over Three plays later Jones scored of the Botlermakers on Satur­over the past few weeks. on Waymer's backup guy isn't Michtgan last week, set up for a his second touchdown of the 
day when they entered the Herrmann, equally as pleased fair. He didn't throw the 34-yard attempt.. But when the afternoon. lockerroom at halftime, Notre said, "The defensive did a interception. holder, Greg Knafelc, took the "What you don't want to do Dame, 13-7. rremedous job ·in the second ''With Dave out of there we snap from center. he rolled out after they score is come back 
And Ht>rrmann remembered half, and because of them the lost something, because he is to the right and threw to tight with a mistake," Devine said 
offf'nst> was able to get the ball somebody we all look up to.'' end, Dean Maszrak over the about the interception. "That
as well as anyone. "We made H a point to bring and move it. The Irish defense, however, middle for the first ND touch­was the crucial part of the 
that up at halfume, said the Another reason the Boilers did not always look and find a down of the season. game.'' uncanny expeditor of Purdue's had good success moving the flying pigskin. Purdue's 169 Purdue came right back to tie The Boilers executed another not-so-junky offense. "The ta­ball, according to Herrmann. rushing yards helped to offset the score, as a pass from long drive, with Herrmann bles were turned, though, and was the absence of Dave · Herrmann's pinpomted passing Herrmann to Dave Young cap­completing four straight pas-we were determined to come Waymer at his left side corner­ped a 78-yard drive. The Irish
[continued on page 11] [continued on page 10]
from behind this time." back position. After suffering a 
Determined they were, as mild knee spain in the first half, Herrmann led the Boilers to 21 Waymer watched the final 30 points on 173 total yards in the minutt>s--ire pack in hand--from final· half to overtake the Irish, the sidelines . 
·'I think it made a difference,''28-22. 
''Anytime you can do that admitted Herrmann. "Number against Notre Dame, Jou have 24 (Dick Boushka) didn't have to be proud," smile Purdue the same experience. Waymer coach Jim Young. ''Any time is probably their best defensive you've beaten Notre Dame bark. We went to that side 
Irish hooters tie Lo_yola 
by Gary Grassey 

And after Saturday mor11ing's 
Sports W n'ter 

3-2 loss to Purdue, Irish for­tunes were looking bleaker than ever. Their record reduced to a
During these past two weeks, 

miserable 2-4, Notre Dame has Notre Dame's soccer team and to face nationally-ranked Loyo­their coaches have been doing la-Baltimore on Sundayan awful Jot of head shaking in afternoon at Cartier Field.
the IIJcker room. It seems sthat As dejected as they were, the no one could ·figure out why Irish did not roll over and playsuch a talented team had lost dead. They set out to turn theirrhrr:e of its first five games. 

season around by proving toSenior halfback Dannie themselves that they couldMcCurrie wa··. as perplexed compete with the best in theabout the situation as anybody. 
nation, by holding Loyola to a"I just don't know," he said, :'I 2-2 tie in a thrilling game.
don't think anyon~ knows what 
[continued on page 10]
was wrong. '' 






