, , , Urban Plunge -page 10 

VOL. XIV, NO. 27
.................
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1979 

by Pat Toomey StaffReporter 
The Student Union Steering Committee defended its com­plimentary concert ticket policy and criticized its budget cuts last night. 
The Student Union's tradi­tional policy of giving compli­mentary tickets to Student Union workers was reaffirmed by a 5-4 vote of the Board of Commissioners Monday night. After the meeting, Student Government Treasurer Greg Sebasky strongly criticized this policy, saymg volunteer workers should not be compen­sated. 
The Student Union Steering Committee responded to Sebasky's comp1ent~ by issuing a statement last night. The statement cited the wide range of events sponsored by Student Union that benefit Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
According to the statement, the tickets are merely a show of appreciation to workers for their efforts in producing these activities. If the tickets were to be viewed as compensation, this compensation would amount to merely 11 cents per hour, the committee pointed out. 
The committee felt that Sebasky violated their rrust by not speaking to them before making any statements. They ..&.e Sebasky owes them an apology for violating this trust. 
Committee members took special exception to Sebasky's assertion that the money spent on complimentary tickets was an improper use of student activities funds. They felt that the $6,000 allocated to the Hall pressed their strong dissarisfac­Student Union will receive tion with the budget of $61,700 additional funds. ''I think that allocated to Student Union for the Board of Commissioners this year. This figure repre­will be reasonable," stated sents a cut of $5,000 from last Hamel. year's budget, and it is $14,000 The reduced budget will less than the requested budget. cause a number of Student 
President's  Council  for  hall  
unl?royements  should  be  the  
mam Issue.  
Committee  members  ex­ 

''We are extremely surpnsed Union activities to be eliminat­with this budget," commented ed, he said. The snow sculp­Student Union Director Tom ture contest, one speaker, and Hamel. one act at the Midwest Blues · 
Hamel said he will appeal the Festival will definitely be cut budget to the Board of Com­and other cuts are expected, missioners, and he hopes that Hamel noted. 
Pope's ministry continues; appears in New York City 
NEW YORK tAP) -Pope John Paul II took h1s tra.,eling ministry from the United Nations to Harlem and the South Bronx yesrerday, speaking to 111•1a and srreet crowds alike of the despair of war and poverty. 
While the Pope was speaking, city FBI agents, a.ctzng on an anonymous tip, raided the New)ersey apartment ofa man believed to be a Puerto Rican terron.st, and confiscated a semi-automatic weapon and ammunition. The letter which led the ageYJ.s to the man's house said that the Pope·.~ lzfe "is in jeopa·-dy." For further details, see slOT)', page 5. 
At rhe Unued Nations, the pope pleaded for a step beyond arms redw tion -"an energeric effort to do away with tht' very possibility of provoking war.'' 
At St. Patnck's Cathedral he prayed for the poor and suffering, and in poverty-striken Harlem he urged his mostly black audience to be "messengers of hope." 
"In a spe~ial way my heart is with the poor, with those who suffer, with those who are alone in the midst of this teeming metropolis,'' the pontiff said beneath the soaring, vaulted ceilings of St. Patrick's. 
The p()pe's day was as diverse at this crowded city: from the Unued Nations, to St. Patrick's, up Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard under a darkening sky to black-populated Harlem, then to the devastation of the heavily Hispanic South Bronx. His last duty was celebrating Mass before 70,000 at Yankee Stadium. 
The pontiff's day was touched by the nation's violent side, too. Acting after the FBI received a letter saying the pope's life was in danger, police raided a house in Elizabeth, N.J., and found a semi-automatic weapon and ammunition. They issued an alert for a man authorities said might be connected with Puerto Rican extremists. 
At St. Patrick's, at least 10,000 greeted John Paul. Fifth Avenue was a profusion of waving banners and handker­chiefs, and balloons of papal gold and white filled the air. A policeman helping hold back the crowds bowed before the pontiff and kissed his ring. 
Along the route to Harlem, the crowds clapped and chanted the song ''Wade in the Water'' as youns blacks on bicycles pedaled along a parallel service road trymg to keep up with the pope, who stood and waved in an open-topped limousine. 
At St. Charles Borromeo Church i~. Harlem, the pontiff was greeted by Monsignor Emerson Moore, the only black monsignor in the country. At St. Patrick's he was met by New York's Cardinal Terence Cooke, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, and a crowd of other churchmen and worshippers. 
At one point, the 84-year-old Sheen started to kneel before 
[continued_ on page 4.] 
Clubs react to Board's allocations 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
A wide spectrum of reactions has been generated following yesterday's release of the Board of Commissioners' budget figures. Three out of four clubs contacted by The Observer last night said they intend to appeal their alloca­tions to the board. 
Bill Roche, Student Body· president, admitted last night, ''We realize that we are human and may have made some mistakes.'' 
The Student Union said they were "extremely surprised" with the figures. 
Even though the Hall Presi­dents' Council received a 60 percent increase over last year, HPC Chairperson Ellen Dorney commented, "I am very dis­appointed.'' 
HPC requested $35,000 and only received $15,000, however HPC was the only organization to receive an increase. Five of the nine board members are either currently affiliated with the organization or have been in the past. Dorney would not say whether or not the figure would be appealed. 
Greg Sebasky, ·Student Gov­ernment treasurer, stated that the board does have the power to reallocate funds. He empha­sized that the clubs do have two weeks to appeal the allocations. Sebasky also commented on his statement concerning the com­plimentary ticket policy, say­mg, ' 'I admit it was a mistake to disclose the vote, but my opin­ions on the policy itself will not be retracted--reason being I have the right to tell the newspaper or anyone my opin­
ion  especially  when  student  
funds are involved."  
On  behalf  of  the  Interna­ 

tional Students' Or~anization-­a group whose inittal financial request was $5,960 and actual allotment was $200--Fr. Thomas Tallarida commented, "We cannot function on $200. With this budget, I couldn't even finance a breakfast scheduled for Fr. Hesburgh's mass.'' 
Tallorida daimed that ISO' s involvement with the World Market and International Festi­val directly benefits the student body. However, he also com­mented, ''The needs of interna­tional students are different from those of American stu­dents. We would like to see the international students' fees given directily to IS~." 
'I have the right to 
tell the newspapers or 
anyone my op1n1on 
especially where 
student funds 
are involved.' 
Tallarida said ISO will defin­itely appeal their allocation. He also mentioned that, depending upon the outcome of the appeal, he may approach Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. Van Wolvlear, vice president for Student Affairs, to mvestigate the possibility of gettin~ these fees directly. 
"I mtend to sit down with every person that has a problem," Roche commented. ''I want to. This is a sincert> attempt on our part to find our where we madt> mistakes. We fully anticipated appeals; that is why we set aside a special fund for it." 
Dom Naducci, a spokt>sman for the American Institutt> o{ Architec.t~·-a dub with a mem­bership of 140 students, com­mented, "Some activities have to go." The club requested $495 but only received $100. 
As President of Black Business Students, Ken Lync..h commented, "We may have to cut a speaker or some other event." The club requested $225 but was only allocated $75. Lynch also stated that their activities are campus-wide be­cause they sponsor lectures
...,..._,41 
. . . . . 
. I 
Ne-ws in brief 
Wednesday, October 2, 1979-pa~e 2 
Entice elderly to work
Cleveland's Kucinich stays alive in ma.yoral race Soviets fight early retirement 

CLEVELAND (AP) . Dennis J. Kucinich, the feisty 
32-year-old ~ayor who barely survived .a recall a~te~pt 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet 
last year. stayed ~live poli.ticatly last ntght by clmgmg sions call for the retention of all effectiveJan. 1, 1979. The law
Union, faced by serious labor 
w second place 1n a pnmary contest to select two or part of ~ worke~· s pension also abolished entirely the
shortages and a need to support
candidates for mayor in Ohio's largest city. But Lt. income whtle earnmg wages mandatory retirement age of 70
millions of old-age pensioners, 
Gov. George V. Voinovich showe~ he was the man from work. for most federal employees.
anounced new measures yester­
to beat in the Nov 6 runoff wtth a strong show­The United States last year The minimum Soviet pension 
day to encourage older citizens 
passed a law raising the legal now stands at 45 rubles, $70
mg. Three of five contende.rs for the $50,~0-a-year job as mayor of the fi~anCJally. troubled cttv were 
to keep working. . . mandatory retirement age from per month for industrial
The current retirement age meliminated m the non-parusan pnmary. 
65 to 70 for most workers, workers and 20 rubles, $31 per
most jobs is 60 years for men 
month for collective farmers.
and 55 for women. But limited 
The farmers' figure is to rise to
numbers of pensioners have 
28 rubles, $44 dollars, on Jan.
Carter and Dol~y Parton get 
Ion~ been a common sight in 
SMC hosts 
1.
Sovtet offices, transport ser­
The minimum pension level
vices and factories, working to 
is well below the average Soviet 
together at White House 
avoid boredom or to supple­
industrial wage of some 165
'Pro day'
ment pension income. 
rubles, $258 dollars per month,WASHINGTON, (AP) -President Carter brought some 
Seeking to incrl'!ase this 
making additional sources ofcountry music stars to the White House for lunch 
number, the decree publi~hed 
by Mary Beth Connor money highly attractive. 
yesterday, telling them he is gr ateful for ''the way 
in newspapers yesterday said 
More than 28 million Sovietsyou can cross state. lines and internation~~ lines to "necessary conditions" -ap­The Saint Mary's Counseling are of retiremeN age or older,bring messages of JOY. and entertamment. Cart~r . 
parently financial ones -to keep and Career Development Cen­with women far outnumberinggave special hugs to smgers Dolly Parton and Dottle pension-age workers in the ter will sponsor ''Professional men.
West as they came through a receiving line. "You're labor force had not previously Day'' tomorrow ·for freshmen The new decree provides a 10the one I've been waiting for,'' Carter told Ms. Parton. 
been provided for. . and soohomores who are inter­ruble, $15.60, per month hike in ''Get a good one, now,'' she said as the clatter The decree permns pen­ested u1 the possibility of going their pensions after retirementof motor-driven camera shutters grew quickly into a loud sioners who stay on the job to graduate or professional for each year of work aft~rwhir. 
after retirement age to get school. The program will retirement age, up to a maxi­larger pension payments i!l begin at 7 p.m. in Room 147 of mum of.40 rubles. The total
subsequent years. Other provt-Madaleva Hall. 
amount of the pension, how­
ABC regains lead a:fter 
According to Tony Campbell, ever, may not exceed 150 the co-director of the C&CDC, rubles, $234 dollars, per month. 
the purpose of "'Professional
f-The Observer_
strong NBC challenge 
Some workers are permittedDay' is to help freshmen and to receive pensions and working
Night Editor:Margaret
NEW YORK, (AP) -ABC snatched first place away sophomores get information to wages simultaneously, up to a
Kruse
from NBC as the networks' primetime ratings race aid their planning for the maximum of 300 rubles, $469
Asst. Night Editor:Dave lA­
took a more likely shape. But the victory was far future.'' 
dollars.
Berge, Suzy Marshall, Ann
from decisive, and there was plenty in the report Various speakers will be on
Monaghan
from A.C. Nielsen Co. for NBC to cheer about. NBC h'lnd to discuss different areas
Copy Editor:]ohn McGrath
won the networks' weekly competition for the first time of professional and graduate
Layout Staff:Dierdre Murphy 
Schetnanske
in nearly a year in the week of Sept. 17-23. And education. Frank Yeandel,
News Editor:Mark Rust
figures for the week ending Sept. 30 showed ABC assistant professor in the busi­
Features Layout:K. Connelly
wtth only a slight edge · 19.4 to 19_.1 for NBC, ness department, will talk 
to per_fortn
Sports Layout:Mark Perry
with CBS third for the second week 10 a row at about master's programs in
Sports Copy Editor:Mike O­
16.4. 
business administration . All
lenik 
health professions ·.:xcept
Typists:Paul 1'.1ullaney, Pau­
_for Pope
nursing, will be discussed by
la Shea, Mich Santella, Ka­
Weather 
Dr. Phtlip Bays, assistant pro­
thy Murray, Ann Monaghan 
fessor of ·chemistry . Joyce Schemanske. of the
EMT:Kim Convey
Partly cloudy, windy with a 20 percent chance .of Assistant Professors Richard Saint Mary's Music' Depart­
Proofreader:]ohn McGrath
showers and thunderstorms. High around 60 wtth Brisbin (government.) and ment, will be th~ organist for
ND Day Editor:Keith Melar­
falling temperatures in the afternoon. Mostly cloudy, William Hawks ( ohilosopby) the Papal Greeung Ceremony
agno
breezy and quite cool ~ith a less t~an 20 p~rcent will speak about law school .. Thursday night. at Holy Na~e
SMC. Day Editor:Kathy Do­
chance of sprinkles tomght. Lows 10 the mtd to Graduate school wtll be dis­Cathedral in Chtcago. She wtll
manteo
urper 40s. Partly sunny tomorrow with a chance cussed by Tony Campbell. also be a member of the Papal 
Ad Design:Matt DeSalvo 
o a few sprinkles. Htghs in the mid to upper The program is open to both Mass choir in Grant Park on
Photographer:Mike Bigley
50's. 
St. Mary's and Notre Dame Friday. Both events will be.
Guest Appearance:Ryan 
underclassmen. televised.
"don't tell Scoop" VerBerk­
Cam.P-____
u_s-~ 
all day OCTOBERFEST SMC CAMPUS 
12:15 
p.m. FASTER'S MASS DILLON CHAPEL 

12:15 
p.m. SEMINAR " immunodeficiency diseases," dr. john gavin GALVIN AUD. 

12:15 
p.m. FACULTY FORUM "new social roles for corporations: theoretical & practical explorations," prof. den is goulet 121 HAYES HEALY ' 


~:20 ,p.m. CO~LOQUIUM "pion production with heavy tons, prof. nolen 118 NIEUWLAND 
4:30 
p,m. FIELD HOCKEY nd vs smc ST. MARY'S 

4:30 
p.m. SEMINAR "cidnp," dr. heinz roth 123 NIEUWLAND 


6:30 
p.m. MEETING sailing club 204 O'SHAG 

6:30 
p.m. MEETING off campus council LAFORTUNE 


7 p.m. MEETING women's cross country team FARLEY 
BASEMENT 
7 p.m. MEETING mardi gras organizational LAFORTUNE 
LITil..E THEATRE 7,9:15, 1'1:30 p.m. FILM "rollerball," ENGR. AUD. 
8:30 p.m. LECTURE asst. dean waddick, college of afts and letters, FLANNER PIT 
9 p.m. MEETING K OF C HALL 9 p.m. NAZZ open stage 

~~~------------~~----------.
lJ~....~"··~"'fttll"' ~ ..,...~-;.~; ~ .•.~:~~-t-........~."-!.~l-~)1" ......<I'.. IJ 

·~"'-(~, . 
!·~,.·· 
. . 
The Observer Student input wanted 
Tenure Committee meets 
by Theresa Rebeck 
The Student Committee on Tenure will hold an open meet­ing tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the La Fortune Ballroom. All Students interested in investi­gating t~e University's. ~olicic:;s concermng tenure dectstons are 
urged to attend.  ·  
This  past  week,  the  com­ 
mittee began  an  investiga­ 

tion into the tenure situation at Notre Dame. Mike Haggerty, a first year law student, reports that committee members are disturb ed about what they have learned recently about this situation. 
Professors who come up for tenure are judged according to three basic cnteria, including scholarship, which is evaluated by the quantity and quality of the professor's research and publication; service to the Notre Dame community; and teach­mg. 
Departmental evaluation committees, departmental chairmen, the . deans of the different colleges, the provost and the president of the Uni­versity all have a part in the evaluation process. 
If a professor is denied tenure after having his or her 
gunboat diplomacy 
Soviets respond toCarter 
(AP) -The Soviet Union lashed out yesterday against President Carter's announced military moves to offset Soviet troops on Cuba, charging that Washing­ton seeks to escalate ''gunboat diplomacy'' in the Caribbean. 
Two of America's most influ­ential allies, France and West Germany, said the Cuba issue is not so im{'ortant it should delay ratification of the SALT II arms limitation treaty. Debate over the troops' presence has delayed U.S. Senate considera­tion of the SALT agreement signed by Carter and Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev in Vienna last June. 
In the Kremlin's first'detail­
ed comment on Carter's 
Monday night broadcast 
address, Tass said the presi­
dent and his advisers had been 
seeking to exploit "a myth that 
they themselves created'' -to 
exacerbate tensions and press 
for bigger military outlays. 
Carter announced m his 
Texans organize rides 
Any student who is from Texas or who wants to go there for Fall Break should contact Ramon Macia of the Texas Club at 3 7 46 before October 15. 
Interested persons must pay 
their membership dues before 
~ides can be arranged. Those 
1aving cars who are in need of 
riders are encouraged to submit 
their names to Macia. 
SMC to host 
pep rally 
Saint Mary's Holy Cross Hall will sponsor a pep rally tonight at 9:30 p.m. on the front porch of the dorm. 
credentials evaluated by each of these, he or she is given a one year terminal contract by the University. Once this contract expires, he or she must leave the University. 
Haggerty says that the com­mittee members are disturbed not by the criteria used in this process, but by the secretive and subjective air which sur­rounds the procedure. 
No professor is permitted to know · when in the-process he or she was denied tenure, or for what reasons tenure was denied. 
''The whole process pro­motes an atmosphere of medi­eval secrecy and deception,'' observes Paul Lauer, one of the committee spokesmen. 
The committee is currently trying to compose a list of all professors who were denied tenure. They hope I to make this information available to the student body. Haggerty thinks that if students are aware of who have been denied tenure, they will be more concerPed about what he calls the ''obvi­ous injustices" of the tenure procedure. 
''These teachers have been literally fired from their jobs," he says, pointing out that the 
speech the temporary station­ing of 1,500 Mannes at the U.S. base at Guantanamo in Cuba and creation of a new perman­ent joint task force headquar­ters in Key West, Fla. 
A Pentagon spokesman said last night that starting in mid­October 3,500 Marines and sailors aboard four amphibious ships will stage special exer­cises at Guantanamo for about four weeks. He said 10 light bombers would participate. 
Tass, in a dispatch from Washington, said the. contro­versy over the reported pres­ence of Soviet troops in Cuba had been whipped up into a ''noisy propagandistic cam­paign." 
In his speech, Carter told the AmericanJublic that the Soviet Union ha refused to remove the troops from Cuba, but he said the issue ''is certainly no . reason for a return to the Cold War. " 
He said he had received ''assurances from the highest levels of the Soviet govern­ment'' that the troops were manning a training center in Cuba and present no direct threat to U.S. security. 
However, Carter added, "we shall not rest on these Soviet statements alone,.'' and de­scribed the planned increase of 
U.S. military presence in the Caribbean. 
The Soviet Union has persis­
tently claimed that the Soviet 
troops in Cuba are there for 
training purposes only and that 
their number has not increased 
in the last 17 years. 
Much of the Tass report 
quoted directly from Carter's 
speech, particularly his com­
ments about the need for rapid 
Senate ratification of the SALT 
treaty.
Tass said, "the United States is expanding the scope of military maneuvers in the region and intends to conduct them on a resular basis. In other words, it 1S a question of a step-up of 'gunboat diplomacy' in the Caribbean.'' 
denial of tenure is equivalent to .~ismissal from the Univer~ity., 
They have not been told why they were fired, and there is no formal University appeal system which they can use to find this out." 
Moses Johnson, David Iseley, Madonna Kolbenshlag, Dolores Frese, Jack Rhue, and Albert LeMay are the only professors on the partial list' of those denied tenure who, to date, would allow their names to be published. 
Miles Coiner of the Speech and Drama Department was fired under similar circum­stances, although his case did not go through the tenu-t,. process. t . 
Haggerty urges any students who are interested in this issue but who cannot attend tonight's meeting to call Paul Lauer at 232-9264 or Peggy Osberger at 282-2241. 
Goldpeaks at$444 
(AP) -Gold prices fluctuated wildly yesterday, hitting $444 an ounce in Europe before dropping to $414 in New York. The U.S. dollar hit a record low against the West German mark before rallying sharply on rumors of American action to support the currency. 
After hitting the $444 peak, gold sank to $405 before rally­mg to close in London at $424, up $10.50 from Monday's ~;>re­vtous record close. In Zunch, the close was even higher at $438, up $23.50 for'the day. 
In New York, where trading continues after European trad­kets close, gold slipped to close at $414, down $1.50 from Monday's record. Gold sold as high as $~38 in New York Tuesday, dealers said. 
At the high, the price was more that twice the $218.875 it was at the beginning of the year. It hit $300 only six weeks ago and closed over $400 for the first time Monday. 
''The market is going all over 
the place,'' said Bob Price, a 
gold trader at Republic National 
Bank in New York. ''There are 
moves of $4-$5-$10 at a time. 
It's absolutely hectic. People 
don't know whether to buy or 
sell. One guy comes in and 
buys and they all buy. Another 
sells and they all sell. It's 
hysteria buying and selling. 
Th'~ gold slide in Europe 
came after U.S. Federal 
Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker 
left Belgrade, Yugoslavia, 
where he was partiCipating in 
an International Monetary 
Fund conference. Rumors 
sptead that he planned to 
announce a dollar-support pack 
SU to sell raffle tickets 
The Student Union Home­coming~ Committee will be sell­ing raffle tickets for two home­coming packages starting to­day, and-lasting until the supply of 500 tickets is deplet­ed. Anyone interested in buying a raffle ticket should go to the Student Union Ticket Office, 2nd floor of La Fortune, from noon to 4:00 p.m. No student who purchased a home­corning packet ·should attempt to buy a raffle ticket. 
age, but the prices recovered when the Federal Reserve said no announcement was planned. 
On foreign exchange markets that one dealere described as "shell-shocked," the dollar hit a low of 1. 726 West German marks before the rally began. That was below the recordd of 
1. 7285 marks set last Oct. 30 before the last dollar-rescue package was announced. 
N.D STUDENT 
CLUB OF LONG ISLAND Orginizational 
eeti~g & 
Thursday Oct. 4 
Ballroom 



RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern ln,dfana 'a largest record and tape selection _and concert ticket headquarters 
Jl.OO OFFII 
O.ftJI o.lbv• 01 tap• (now thru Oct. 15 

18,000 albuma and· taJ)4ta In.stock 
ND;smc atuc»nt checks accepted fot up to 
120.00 ov., putchaH aMOunt 0P" 10 to 10, 7 dap a wHk · 
Rlv•t City Recorda 50970 U.S. 31 North 3 •Ilea ftOidl of ~UI 
277-4242 
r 
The Observer 
Americans eat less; tend to become fatter at the same time 
WASHINGTON (AP) · Eat less and grow slim? Not necessarily so. scitntists warn. 
As a matter of fact, American as a ~roup are eating less and growtng fatter at the same time, concludes an Agriculture Department study released yes­terday. 
The catch seems to be that while we are consuming fewer calories, we also are getting less exercise. 
The findings are based on a survey of information compiled f, ~Jm 196 5 to 1977. 
''If further ananlysis of dis­tributions within Broups does not explain what 1s going on, then we · probably have to cnnclude that there have been rather large decreases in physi­cal activity -shifts to more sedentary work -that the national J.ogging kick has not balance ,'' said D. Mark Hegstead, administrator of the Agriculture Department's Human Nutrition Center. 
Hegstead told a conference on nutrition and the American food system that the decline in calorie consumption is making it more difficult for some seg­ments of the population to consume the ' recommended daily allowances" of nutrients. 
"Indeed, a 'well-balanced' diet by most definitions will not meet the recommended daily allowance for several nutri­ents," he s~id. 
He said researchers are beginning ''to see some re­sponse'' to advice to reduce consumption of fat, sugan and salt and to incr~ase consump­tion of fruits, vegetables and grain products. 
But he said the increase in obesity and higher levels of sweeteners and alcohol were discouraging. 
In another dietary develop­ment, scientists raised the posi­bility Tuesday that the nation's eating habits could be linked to cancer. 
That w·arning came during a hearing by the Senate Agricul­ture subcommittee on nutrition. Dr. Arthur C. Upton, head of the National Cancer Institute, told senators the agency will begin studying that possibility, and said some cancer-causing substances already have been found in smoked and grilled meat. 
Upton suggested that o~e way to help avoid cancer would be to keep weight down while eating fruits and vegetables and low fat, high fiber foods. 
The subcommittee's chair­man, Sen.-George McGovern, D-S.D., said the government has put too much emphasis on findmg cures to cancer rather that ways to prevent the disease. 
Dr. Stanley J. Dudrick, chairman of the surgery de­partment at the UniversitY. of Texas medical school, testified that "the inadequate attention to nutrition must rank as one of the most shameful shortcom­ings of American medicine today.'' 
wednesday' October 3' 1979 -pa~ 4 

Student Activi ....... Programming Board Movie Series presents 
......--·--.. ----·-··--·-----i 

Thursday & Friday October 4&5 7:00pm and 10:00pm 
Carroll Hall (SMC) 
Admission $1.00 
• Pope 
[«~lllit~-.•tl from pag• 1] 
Pope John Paul. The pontiff gently stopped Sheen from 
kneding, pulling him up under the arms, and then hugged 
him warmly . 
The pope had spoken for an hour before the U.N. General 
Assembly and received a one and a half minute standing 
ovation from the delegates. He referred several times to the 
devastation ofwar and said near the end of his speech: ''Are 
the children to receive the arms race from us as a necessary 
inheritance? How are we to explain this unbridled race?" 
The pope also stressed that any solution must include a 
just settlement of the Palestinian question. 
Later, the pope praised the United Nations as a ''great and 
universal endeavor" in a speech to the U.N. Secretariat's 
staff. He compared the staff to the ''carvers of stones,'' who 
along with architects and patrons had created great temples 
and cathedrals. 
Pope John Paul, the supreme pastor of the world's 700 milTion Catholics, appeared more rested than he had been when he arrived in Boston Monday from Ireland for a 7-day tour of the nation. In New York, he saw his first American sunshine. 
Greeted on arrival by United Nations Secretary General 
Kurt Waldheim, the pontiff expressed his hope that nations 
will recognize ''that there is only one world and that is the 
home of all.'' 
The pope was denied a uniquely American experience, 
. (continued on page 6.] 

~ •. 
-~-~. ·-~-­
St~dent surveyors dtligently layout campus. [photo by Mike 
BzgleyJ' 
German dinner kicks o_ff SMC 'Oktober_fes~' 
Saint Mary's annual 'Oktoberfest ' a recreation of Munich's t;aditional celebra­tion of autumn, kicks off today with a German dinner in Saint Mary's cafeteria. 'Oktoberfest' is sponsored by the Student Activities Programming Board. 
Tomorrow three circus tents
' 
and a 'Moonwalk' will be pitched on the dining hall green for all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students.· One af the 
rent~ will host a polka band, with hourly shows by 12' folk dancers, from 6 to 11 p.m. 
An adjoining tent will f:Ontain a 'biergarten' for students 21 and over. Beer will be sold for 25 cents a glass. The third tent will sell soft pretzels, bratwurst and taffy apples. 
Rodger's and Hammersrein's '.'Sound -of Ml!f.;':"" w\11 also be p~esented tomorrow and Fna~y mght, at 7 and 10 p.m., m M.ad~lev.a's Carroll Hall. Ad­mtsston Is $1. . 
T~e co-chatrmen for t~is year s Okt?berfest. are Lt,sa Fulks, :=t semor at Samt M~ry s, and Mtke Murphy, a semor at Notre Dame· 
============ 
' Clubs
' ' 
(continMeelfrom Pflge 1] which are open to the entire . student body. He also con­firmed that the dub will appeal the decision. Delta Phi Alpha President Andy Koors expressed a similar grievance over his club's alloca­tion, commenting "We have 

·{«NNIitlu~Po-JNIB• J] 
The dollar's gains still left it appreciably below its level a w<:ek ago against most curre­ncies. 
In Tokyo, where the business day ends before Europe's begins, it closed at 224.875 yen, down slightly from 224.925 yen Monday bur still holding gains achieved in recent months. The dollar slipped to 224.70 yen in New York, down from 225.20 Monday. 
The British pound eased in London to wind up at $2.1885, compared to $2.1903 the day before, and fell in New York to $2.1862 from $2.1980. But the pound was up against most other European currencies. . 
Late dollar rates in other European centers, compared with Monday's late rates: Frankfurt, 1.7530 marks, up from 1. 7390; Zurich, 1.5640 Swiss francs, up from l.5473; · Paris, 4.1250 French francs, up from 4.0845; Amsterdam 
1.9945 guilders, up from l.9295, and Milan 808.50 lire, up from 801.15. 
• • • Gold 
Late New York dollar quotes, compared to Monday: 1. 7548 West German marks, up from 1.7369; 4.1337 French francs, up from 4.0840} 1.5700 Swiss francs, up from 1.5470, and $1.1619 Canadian, up from $1.1606. 
campus-wide activities. We helped SMC with Oktoberfest. I am personally not satisfied at all." 
"We'll try to correct mis­takes, but we are not going to be able to make everybody happy," Roche conceded. "If everybody got what they wanted, we would need twice as much money.'' 
Offered new job 
SMC Info director resigns 
by Molly Woulfe Senior StaffReporter 
Nancy Kommers, Saint Mary's director of Public Infor­mation, has announced that she will resign her position on Oct. 
10. She plans to work as a iob deYelopei for female cx-oft'eo­ders at the South Bend YMCA. 
Kommers, who has served as director since May, 1977, has worked to publicize Saint Mary's on a local and regional basis. Besides editing the Saint .Mary• 's Reports, she published the Saint Mary's Chronicle, an annual listing of faculty and staff accomplishments. 
Kommers explained that her new job will include setting up ''a system for finding jobs for women in the South Bend community who are coming back from state prison. Her duties will also include devising ''individual curricula'' for those women who wish to further their educations. 
'"[(really sounds exciting and challenging," Kommers, a graduate of Emmanuel College m Boston, added, "I'm really looking forward to it.'' 
. :J!. 
.',-' . 
The Observer 
Wednesday, October 3, 1979. -p~ l' 
Police seize weapon, ammunition in alleged danger to Pope's life 
EUZABETH, N.J. (AP)-Local McDonnell, said two empty 
identified as AlfOnso Iioberto
police~ acting after a letter to handgun boxes were found in 
Gustave, about 36, a truck
the FBI warned that Pope ) ohn the house, and New York police 
driver from San Salvador, El
Paul Il's life might be in said a letter indicating FALN McDonnell said no
Salvador.
danger, raided an Elizabeth involvement was found. The 
arrest warrant had been filed. 
apartment yesterday and seized FALN has claimed responsibil­
''There has been no violation 
a semi-automatic weapon and ity for a number of terrorist acts 
that we have jurisdiction over.
four boxes of ammumtion, an in the United States. 
An overt act has to take place,
FBI spokesman reported. The raid came as the pope McDonnell said. 
A regional alert was issued toured New York city on the 
for a Spanish-speaking man second day of a seven-day visit A woman who identified her­who reportedly lived m the to the United States. self as Marcella Gustave, wife apartment. New York City McDonnell said the letter of the man being sought, was police -he was believed to which was received yesterday, interviewed at the Madison 
be connected with the Puerto told police to check a· house at Avenue address by FBI agents, Rican extremist group FALN -1042A Madison Avenue in this who declined to elaborate. the Armed Front for National northern New Jersey city. John Morrison, the superin­Liberation. ''The pope, his life is in tendent of the apartment build­
New York police head­jeopardy,'' McDonnell said the , ing, said an FBI agent search­quarters said it was told by the letter read. "Check out this ing the apartment ''ca.rpe out 
FBI that the letter said the pope address.'' with what looked to me like a would be shot today in New The FBI refused to give more Thompson submachine gun·. ' York. The letter reportedly was details about the letter, saying
dated Sunday. · it was evidence. Mrs. Gustave, speaking 
The FBI spokesman, Michael The man being sought was through her brother, Jorde Jordan, told reporters her hus­band was in San Salvador visiting relatives and had been gone about two months. 
She told agents that her husband has a permit for a hunting rifle. 
G>uncil discusses UP, 
United Way campaign 
''My brother-in-law is not religious, he is not _political,"by}ana Schutt Hall. Jordan said, addmg that Chris Digan, United Way cam­Gustave did not belong to the The Hall Presidents' Council pus chairman, and his assistant FALN. 
. heard speakers representing Mike Sexton, explained the 
Police throu~hout the metro­
the United Way campaign, procedure for United Way col­
politan area onginally had been 
Urban Plunge, and the Home­lections within the dorms. To 
alerted in an all-points bulletin
coming Committee at their tally 100 percent participation, 
to watch for two cars and a
meeting last night in Carroll each resident must donate $1, 
Spanish-speaking couple "con­
Digan explained. 
sidered a security risk to the Hanging out of a Washington Hall window, this full­
''We must think of this as a 
pope." Later the alert was sized ad promotes the upcoming production of the
community project,'' Sexton
Theatre group 
changed to cover just the man. ND-SMC Theatre. [photo by Mike Bigley]
said. "The organizations funded by the United Way may so -~~,..vant to students, but Not~ 1e is the second
to present Housekeeping measure
largest employer of people in South Bend. These organiza­tions do benefit the employees 
of Notre Dame.'' It was announced that the HPC had been allocated$15,000 The Notre Dame~Saint at the Student Activities budget by jim Soisson posters on private property those items that don't comply Mary's Theatre will present its hearings. HPC budget hear­without permtssion. '' with the requirements. ''The 
Hamlet Roemer regulates posters 
James A. Roemer, dean of
production of Hamlet starting ings, which will allocate funds Roemer requested in the :letter was basically to people
students, has initiatedf.roceed­
Friday night. -Performances to each dorm for improvements, letter that hall staff, cleaning who are responsible for these
ures for another year o ''poster
will also be staged on Oct. 6, will begin soon. people, security personnel, and buildings and the surrounding
housekeeping.'' 
.
11, 12, and 13 at Washington The HPC was asked to help In a letter addressed to building administrators remove areas," he stated. Hall. 
promote enthusiasm and in­rectors, assistant rectors, aca­Reginald Bain, assoctate pro­terest in this year's Urban demic deans, and the mainten­fessor of speech and drama at Plunge project by program ance and security departments,. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, 
Pubhcity Director Leo Latz. Roemer repeated a directiveis directing the production. Latz explained the program as a issued last year. 
Most recently, he directed and 
two-day experience in the inner ''Outside organizations suchcoordinated the Summer The­city of any metropolitan area as bars, clubs and even individ­
atre '79 series. Guest New near the student's home. The uals are not allowed to post
York actor and Notre Dame 
"Plunge" must be taken be­advertisements in the halls or inalumnus Lance Davis will por­
tweenJan. 4 andJan. 13. the other Administrative Build­tray Hamlet. The production Deadfine for applications for ings, unless they have the prior 
will also feature Cathy Hurst, the plunge is Friday. Forms are approval of the Director of
Jack Connolly, Susan Gosdick, 
avatlable in both Campus Min­Student activities,'' the letter
Tony Mockus, and John Da­istry offices. HPC help was said. venport. solicited to get students in­''This was designed as a
Dorothy Hanrahan is set 
volved, Latz said. housekeeping m~asure, to keep 
designer, Anne Dumas is stage ''This program was designed posters and stgns off such manag-er, and Joe .Martin is to give people incentive to help, things as trees and stairwells," 
techmcal director. 
to observe the needs of the Roemer explained. ''It is for
For ticket information and inner city and motivate them to aesthetic reasons and a means
reservations, call the Notre 
action.'' Latz explained. for effective communication,''Dame-Saint Mary's Box Office John Malcolm, Homecoming he added, referring to the 
at 284-4176. Committee chairman, an­centralization of items on bulle­nounced that a dorm decoration tin boards. contest would again be held this Roemer was also concerned year. Homecoming is sche­with merchants using the Uni­duled for the weekend of the versity grounds for free adver­
Repul>licans 
USC game, so the theme this ~isement. "If they want to year ts "The Fall of Troy". advertise, let them place their 
meet 
Prizes will be awatded for the ads in The Observer,'' he best-decorated dorm: $125 first added. and Special Guest prize; $75 second prize; and $50 James McDonqell, director of There will be a short organiza­third prize. Malcolm ~~cour­Student Activities and the man 
Faith Band
tional meetin~ toni~ht for a~l aged every dorm to paructpa~e. in charge of approving or students who submttted apph­Collection of newspaper and disproving posters eminating 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 19th 8 pm
cations for committee leader­cans will begin this Monday for from ou~side the Univers.ityship positions for the ND any dorm that is interested. commumty, agreed wah 
Notre Dame ACC 
Republican (rmvention, at 7 The proceeds of this project will Roemer's position on outside 
p.m. in La Fortune R<?Om 2-D: be shared equally with INPIRG. advertising. 
· Tickets $8.50 and S7.50
For further informatton--or if The presidents were reminded "Most of the letter was unable to att" nd--contact Con­that a Mardi Gras meeting for· directed toward off campus 
On sale now at ACC Box Office
vention Chain...Iall Bill .Kresse all hall chairpersons and archi­groups," McDonnell said. "It 
and Student Union Ticket Office 
(8777), or Ed McNally tects is scheduled for tonight at ts inappropriate for outside ~232-3153). 7 p.m. in LaFonune Ballroom. businesses to put signs and 


. .'.. !. 
I. 
'· 
r= -­
The Observer Wednesday, October 3, 1979 -page 6 
Hard Times 'raises hell' 
i NARENGO, Ind. (AP) -John ches ''everything they do in the bearded Flynn, a West Flynn doesn't have a soapbox, one way or another.'' 
Virgnia native. "Now I've got
but he does have ·a news­He claims the Ohio River 
it and boy, do I enjoy it. 
paper. is ''ecologically ruined'' and 
And ever since the first edi­that valuable farm ground is To get the paper started, tion of his weekly publication being lost to erosion because Flynn and his wife formed Hard Times was printed seven of mod~rn highlift dams. Of Hard Times Enterprises ear­
I months ago, Crawford County clean aid, he says: "I'm addic­lier this year and spent almost i readers have had the oppor­ted to cigarettes but I ain't two months selling stock. tunity to watch John Flynn to dirty air. ' ' They raised nearly $20,000 do what he likes best. From the Hard Times office, and in the 30 weeks the news­Call it self-indulgence in the located in a former funeral paper has been in existence First Amendment;Flynn calls it home in Narengo, the 41-year­the circulation has grown t~ plain, old-fashioned editorial old Flynn does his editorial 3,000. ''hell-raising.'' and news writing under the "What We've really tried to He expounds freely and re­motto "Howlin' at the Moon," do here · is bring jounalism peatedly on his favonte topics -a line he borrowed from a not down, bur up ro the in­the ills of big government, Hank Williams song. dividual level,'' Flynn says. the erosion of individual rights I've always wanted an edi­"We may go broke, but we and the destruction of inland torial page to just run my may create a major regional waterways in the Midwest. mouth to the fullest," says newspaper. '' He describes the Washington bureaucracy as a bunch of ''lE-nd grabbers and horse tra­ders" who are bringing about 
New code considers 
''the ruination of the family 
farm in southern Indiana'' 
through the purchase of farm­
public , child safety 

The Pieta in Sacred Heart Church. [photo by lvf.ike BtgleyJ · 
==========~=======~============~­
• • • Pope 
[continued froj r ·b"' 4] 
that of seeing New York traffic. Police had cleared the roads between LaGuardia Airport and the United Nations and few people turned out along the motorcade rouce. 
But the pope pulled back the sunroof of his limousine and stood, extending his characteristic palms up, two-handed greeting to a smaller than expected crowd that greeted him at the United Nations. 
By contrast, heavily Catholic Boston turned out in force M0nday in cold and rain as the pope traveled six miles from hi~ Mass at Boston Common to the cardinal's residence when he spent the night. 
Inside the United Nations, the pope stopped the official welcoming delegation to shake hands with desk clerks. 
The General Assembly gave him a standing ovation as he entered, a white-robed figure with hands clasped under the gold cross draped across his chest. 
The president of the General Assembly, Tanzania's Salim Ahmed Salim, said in introducing the pontiff: "We share your belief that peace, love and brotherhood are attainable in our time.'' , 
The pope expressed the hope for a solution to the cirsis in the Middle .East but said that it would mean nothing if it did not include ''just settlement of the Palestinian question.'' 
He restated the Vatican position that Jerusalem, which now is under Israeli control, should become an international city because of its importance to Judaism, Christianity andd Islam. 
He gave approval to the SALT II treaty but said that continued preparations for war "show that there is a desire to be ready for war and being ready means being able to start 
it.,. That, the pope continued, "means taking the risk that sometime, somewhere, somehow, someone can set in motion the terrible mechanism of general destruction.'' 
Woolworth VP to speak 
Aubrey C. Lewis, vice back for the football team for president for Security and Ad­the 1955, '56, and '57 seasons. ministrative Services for the He was named to the All-Amer­Woolworth-Woolco Division of • ican squad Juring his senior 
F. W. Woolworth Co., will year. speak at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow, After graduation, Lewis Thursday, at the Hayes-Healy served as an F.B.I. agent, high Auditorium. · school teachC't, and board­
Lewis is a 1958 Notre Dame member of the North East graduate, and during his time Regional Cabdet of the Boy here, he became the ftrst black Scouts of Am· ·rica, and also to be elected captain of an serves as a ~~ember of that athletic team--the track team. group's nat1.lC:U communica­He also was starting left half-tions comm~t:~ ... 
land for federal watershed proj­INDIANAPOLIS (AP)ects. 
Indiana's new juvenile code isHe contends that the U.S. 
an improvement over the
I­Army Corps of Engineers bot-former hodge-podge of laws,
( 
but has some serious gaps the ) 
1980 legislature must fill, the executive director of the stateL Prosecuting Attorney's Council
( 
f said yesterday. ( Richard P. Good, the council's top official, said the
f 
new code, which took effect
'! 
Monday, lets courts take into
( 
account the public safety, as( well as the needs of a child, in delinquency hearings. 
( 
Good said the code, in many.
1. instances, will require youthful 
( 
offenders to be treated more 
~~.. ----------------------------------~ 
need printing ina hurry? 
'· 11 x 17 posters only $10.00 

South Bend 289-6977 
the wiz of theprinting biz! 
r--------------~I
. JUST FOR THE RECORD
I 
In the 100 Center offers I 
1 10% off on 
I 
I EVERYTHING I
I 
L · 
with ID & coupon I RECORDS, TAPES, paraphernalia J 

MANAGERIAL 
J, 
POSITIONS
;, 
f 
·
FOR WOMEN
( 
Why be a secretary when you can be an Officer. In the Navy, you can have a real job, with real responsibility, and a real fu­ture. Also a top salary, travel opportunities, 
I 
and outstanding benefits. For complete details, 
f· 
I. See the Navy Representative at the Placement 
Office, LeMans Hall on 3 and 4 October 1979, or call LT Carolyn McLean at (312) 657-2169, collect. 
1.. 
( I 
tl 
like adults when they are taken 
to court. -For example, he said, the 
county prosecutor, instead of a 
judge or a probation officer, will 
determine whether a youth is 
charged with an offense. It 
also makes it more difficult to 
put a child in an institution for 
offenses such as running away, 
truancy, curfew. violattons or 
incorrigibility, Good said. 
Good said the major loophole 
in the code involves the status 
of a youth why commits a crime 
after reaching age 17, but does 
not go ro court until he is 18. 

"There is absolutely no place 
you can send him," Good said. 
Under state law, the institu­
tions for !~1venile delinquents, 
the Indiana Boys School and the 
Indiana Girls School, cannot 
accept inmates 18 or over 
because that is the age of legal 
adulthood. But since the 
offense was committed while 
the youngster was a juvenile, 
he cannot be sent to an adult 
prison, Good said. ·· 
The exception would be a 17-year-old who committed a very serious crime, such as murder or armed robbery. In those cases, Good said, the youth could be tried as an adult. But he said transferring a case to adult court is much more difficult for less serious crimes, such as theft or simple assault. 
Good said under the new 
code, children who commit 
" cr h
status ouenses, , sue as 
running away or being truant 
from school, can be sentenced 
by a judge only if the offense. is 
proven beyond a reasona ble 
doubt. In addition, Good said, 
it must be proven that the child 
is in need of care treatment or 
rehabilitation and is unlikely to 
accept the help voluntarity. 
The code also prohibits youths accused of those offenses from being held in a secure facility, such as a county jail. The one exception is runaways, who may be held for 48 hours, providing they are separated from adult prisoners, Good said. 
Good said he also supports a new provision that allows courts to require parents to obtain counseling for their children. 
The new juvenile code is part of a three-part rewrite of Indiana's criminal laws, attempting to refine them, re­move obsolete provisions and place all criminal laws together 1n state law books. 
A new code spelling out adult crimes and the punishment for them went into full effect last year and a new state corrections code takes effect next year. 
------------------------:'~.~---­
------~ 

• 
The Observer 
Student Activities encourages development of hometown clubs 
RED WING, Minn. (AP) ­
Radioactive steam spewed into 
rh~ atmosphere for up to 27 
mmutes yesterday at the Prairie 
Island nuclear generating 
plant, but Minnesota Gov. AI 
Quie said the situation did not 
appear dangerous. 
The accident occurred when a 
steam tube ruptured, said offi­
cials for Northern States Power 
Co., which operates the Prairie 
Island complex six miles north­
west of downtown Red Wing. 
"It's not dangerous from all that we can determine from monitoring,'' said Quie in a news conference in St. Paul. ''We find no detectable radi­ation in the air outside the plant." 
Quie aide Bob Anderson said the Nuclear Regulatory Com­mission told him the situation was not dan~erous. He said he received thts statement from Gaston Reanell, operations officer from the NRC at the scene: "the plant is cooling down normally. The stack release rate is normal and no radiation is detected. In view of these things, no more reports are expected from the NRC tonight." 
Reanell is a member of a five-man NRC team which arrived at the scene yesterday night. 
Frank Ingram, an NRC spokesman in Washington said, "Steam generator tube leaks are not infrequent at all. But I haven't been able to track down exactly how many have resulted in radioactivity being released into the environment." 
STYXconcert changes time 
The starting time for tomorrow night's Stvx concert has b~en mo~ed up to 7:30p.m. from tts ongmal ume of 8 p.m. Concert officials said the move was made because the elabor­ate stage set-up will require more time to dismantle than originally believed. 
Celtic Society to organize 
There will be an organiza· tiona! meeting of the Celtic Society tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Lmle Theatre. All new members welcome. There is a $2 registration fee. 
Quie said that although he received word of the accidenr at about 2:30p.m., he waited until 
5:30 p.m. to make a decision not to evacuate. 
When ground-level radiation tests taken by Minnesota De­partment of Health te~.:ns showed no detectable radiation, said Quie, he decided not to evacuate the area around the plant. 
''~hc;r7 is a whole question of credtbtltty after Three-Mile Island," said Quie. 
In St. Paul, Anderson said the NSP engineers at the plant near Red Wing first detected the leak at 2:14 p.m. in one of two 520-megawatt nuclear gen-· erators at Prairie Island. 
Anderson said the generator was shut down at 2:24 p.m. A general emergency was declar­ed at the plant at 2:30p.m. and plant personnel were evacuat-. ed, Anderson said. 
The problem was isolated at 
2:41 p.m. and the release of radioactivity was stopped at that time, Anderson said. 
Anderson said the State Emergency Services Division and the governor were inform­ed of the accident at 2:32p.m. 
Anderson said monitoring teams were measurng for levels of radioactivity in the air at two and three-mile intervals from the plant site, which is about six miles northwest of the Red Wing business district and 28 miles southeast of Minneapolis­St. Paul. 
First reports from one team taken two to three miles south southwest of the plant indicated no radiation, said Anderson. 
''All readings were nonde­tectable," said Anderson, "the same as on a normal day." 
McDonnell noted. The funds 
could then be used for social 
activities or expanded services. 
McDonnell also emphasized that organized regional clubs facilitate transition to alumni clubs of the same area. ''Having alumni contacts in terms of job opportunities does not hurt and can be a positive factor," he said. 
Many . alumni organizations wish to provtde services for undergraduates yet lack ofcom­communication often hinders their actions, McDonnell ex­plained. 
''Alumni clubs often have extra football tickets or wish to sponsor baggage tru~ks. Therefore they need to haY< some contact with the under­
graduates  of their  area,''  he  
commented.  
All  . alumni  clubs  will  be  

informed about the bagga~e trucks which the Student Acuv­ities office sanctions in order to avoi•l any confusion or duplica­tion, McDonnell said. 
Anyone interested in forming a regional club can pick up an application at the Student Ac­tivities Office. 
''After that (filling out the application), all you have to do is call an orgamzational meet­ing, write a constitution, and elect officers,'' McDonnell ex­plained. 
Marathoners to hold _fun run 
The Notre Dame Marathon Society will hold a two mile fun run at 6: 1S p.m. today. Runners should meet at the Administration Building. 
judo Club 
seeks 
tnetnbers 
The Notre Dame Judo Club is continuing to teach self-defense and judo classes. The classes are held in the south gym on the second floor of the Rockne Memorial, Sundays at 2 p.m. and Tuesdays at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in the sessions is invited to come for more infor­mauon. 
Annie tickets sellout 
nature, but nothing is foreseen
by john Cassidy 
in the immediate future. ''We had hoped to get ticketsTrips toChicago in the future for ''A Chorus Line,'' but theare being considered by the show was only running for fiveCultural Arts Commission due weeks, so the half price dis­to the success of the ticket sales count wasn't available thatfor the play "Annie" this past made "Annie" such a remark­week. 
able deal," Ellison said.
''The response to see 
l_n reference to other plans,''Annie'' was much greater that 
~lltson stated, "We are looking
we expected," reported Dave mto the possibility of seeing theEllison, Cultural Arts commis­Los Angeles Symphony when itsioner. "This was the first time visits Chicago ·or maybe thesomething like this had been ballet. Nothing is definite attried and the outcome was very this point in time.''
pleasing. ·Nancy Ryan (trip Anyone with ideas on activi­coordinator) did an excellent ties in the Chicago area shouldjob of preparing the trip.'' 
contact Ellison. He also urgedAccording to Ellison, the the first 27 people who pur­comi?i.s~ion is looking into the chased tickets to contact htm atposstbthty of future tnps of this 1384. 

DON'T MISS TALKING TO THE HUGHES RECRUITER VISITING 
YOUR CAMPUS SOON. 
Contact your placement office for interview dates. 
r------------------, 
l HUGHES 1 
I I 
L------------------~
Cntatinga new world with eleclrontcs 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M /F 

Campus Interviews 
TI Facilities Planningand Engineering 
-----What You Need----­
Your degree should be in one of the following: 
Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering 
Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering Architectural Engineering 
------What We Do----­
The Tl Facilities Planning and Engineering organiza­tion is a group of professionals responsible for layout, planning, and designing the building and facilities systems necessary for manufacturing and testing Tl products around the world. Current expansion programs involving multi-national assignments provide challenging growth opportunities in all disciplines. 
Facilities Engineering includes designing of systems 
such a~: 
Air conditioning and ventilating. 
Electric power and lighting. 
Process manufacturing equipment installations. 
Special process utility generation and distribution 
facilities such as purified water, exotic gases, high 
pressure fluids. 
Facilities Planning includes: 
Responsibility for facility appearance through devel­opment of building layouts and detail occupancy plans. Working with operating groups to develop moving and rearrangement projects to solve space problems due to company growth, improve material flow and manufacturing operations. 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS October 18·19 
If unable to interview at this time, send your resume in confidence to: Helen Meltzer/P. 0. Box 225474, M.S. 217/Dallas, TX 75265. 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
I NCOR POR ATE D 
An equal opporlunity employer M!f­
hy Andy Segovia 
James McDonnell, director of Student Activities, yesterday expressed his support for the formation of area clubs at Notre Dame. "Regional clubs pN­
vide valuable social and service :;. :uvtues for students,'' 
McDonnell stated. 
Currently there are approxi­
mately 12 ·area clubs at Notre Dame, McDonnell reported. 
McDonnell pointed out that area clubs provide a setting for students from the same geo­graphical region to get together soctally durin~ the Christmas or summer vacauon. 
''The regional clubs also can provide some real services for 
members ,'' McDonnell con­tinued. Regional clubs often have baggage trucks and organ­ize rides for students during breaks. 
Baggage service concessions may raise close to $2,000, 
Radioactive steam leaks in Minnesota plant 
-.-..... ,. .. ----.-· ...... 
'• '!. 1, .... # ..... F ·~ ......... . • ~.a. .....-·..·.r.A. '• 
-----~-------------------'""' 
• 



... 
______......~-----------·-.... -­
. 






beer on the quad ... the Saturday lunch of hamburgers and fries ... the tailgater where you force yourself to have a beer when just three hours earlier when you woke and felt like an army had marc:hed through your mouth in muddy boots, you swore you wouldn't drink for at least another week ... the game--where you watch the cheerleaders, the crowd that roars with a sinf:!le voice 
like some strange army that only watches the battle being fought on the field ... you loose your voice.:·. share soneone's Southern Comfort and marvel in the cold how well it was named as you feel it pour down, glowing and warm on he back of your throat ... another TD and you find your voice again...the game over, you stay to watch the bands go out...after the game, in the room, back at home you switch on the tube to watch another game and wait for dinner. .. anything you do, you do it with someone, with a group of people and you do just about the same thin~ every weekend ... what you do 1s determined by the regularity of the ritual of football-­the arrival of alumni, the outdoor food stands, the jam-packed book­store, elevators that go to the 13th floor of the Library without stop­ping, the visitors taking the field, the Irish taking the field, the plays, the rules, ... the ritual. 
F 


---------~------------------------~----------------~----------------------------------~------------------­
Features 
Wednesday, Octobf: 

Kel1y McCaule_y Alicia Puente 
Just what does URBAN PLUNGE really mean? What are the benefits of a "48-hour immersion" into inner city life? These are natural questions arising from any intial brush with the idea of an "Urban Plunge." Last 1anuary, 194 N.D./S.M.C. students ·decided to satisfy their curiosity and out of th,ir Plunge experiences came diver~e an,.wns and many more 
que~tiCHJ<;, 
Ir would be almost impossible to drscribr a "typical" Urban Plunge. Every ( iry is different and each rJeighhorhood has its own special probk-rn~ a-. well as its own means of dealing with them. Most importantly, pmpk art> diffnent all over and it is peopk who make up a neighborhood :md who strive to improve it. Because every Plunse is different, and every student bnngs a different perp~el tive to their Plunge, reactions ran be quirr diverse, even contradic­tory. Responst>s can vary from shock, guilt and frustration to hope, inspira­tion and unexcepted optimism. 
However, responses to the realities of inner city lifr are more than just emotional. A previously unknown way of life is suddenly revealed in a morf" humane light. Thus, despitt' some negative reactions to events seen in the course of the 48 hours, the overall experience of the Plunge is most often positive. 
Reactions to the condensed view of 
On Saturday, October 6, the South hold Dance Theatre will /resent a program of dance entitle W]VA. The music for the evening will be courtesy of that much misunderstood 
genre of American music called ''CountryI Western''. 
\. 
W]VA is a local Country radio station, hence the name of the evening's program. Ann Dunn, Southhold's artistic director says that W]VA is about characters, where they come from, where they go, and how they get a handle on their joys and sorrows along the way.'' It is easy to envision a program like that, since country music is the closest thing, tog~ther with blues, we have in America today to a personal, oral folk trarlition. Country music im­mortalizes the lives of those who find no voice in the disco-culture of the nightclubs or in the political columns in their local papers. 
"I borrowed a few of my favorite Country and Western tun~s and made some dances to bring these folks alive for the audi~nce," Dunn says of her company's production. 
The program is sudded with classic cou Hry tunes such as Orange Blos­som Special, Blue Eyes Cryin' In the Ram. I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry, Due/in ' Ranjos and Blue Bayou. Th<'sc; arcn 't just tunes that you hear on K-Td album commercials--these songs, this mu'sic, is as much a part· 
o: t nc American music scene as blues anrl J377. 
The first act of the program will tnclude a solo performance by Marcia Hcintzherger to Pour La Dansuesse by Tchaikovsky. 
Thf' second act will feature a company performance of a dance choreographed by Chris Rodda to the piece My Brother, by Simon and Garfunkel; Peter, Paul and Mary. A series of dances to three waltz by Erik Satie will also be performed. 
The Fall Concert will be a diverse production, an innovative production featuring many types of dances and many varieties of music. And it promtses to be another successful ·~ -:ening for the six year old Southhold ·\;nee Theatre. 
~he program begins· at 7:30 on -·ber 6 at the Bendix Theatre of 'entury Center. 
. 
the inner city due to the 48-hour t.ime limit can vary as well. The heighten­ed awareness this restriction induces ·~ well expressed by Mark Carney: Some people may feel that there is too much crammed tn too little time, ·IIIK I think that the continual flow of experiences is important to the overall experience. When you are hit with something hard, you may not remember all the details involved, but you will never forget being hit, and the lasting effect is what is important. 
With this two day ~eriod, the "continual flow of expenences" can include: taking guided tours of housin~ projects jatl facilities and inner city schools; working with Soup Kitchens; making home visits to the elderly; visiting neighborhood cen­ters and coming into contact with community organizers, Catholic Ch~uity services and grassroots social action ~roups. 
The diversity of these events high· lights for the students differents aspects o~ t~e ~arne. urban probl~m: 
pcwerty, lnJUStJce, tgnorance, cnme, and. discrimination. Students can begin to disrern the different factors involved in th~sc problems by obser­ving tht" various approaches specific progrt"ms takr in attempting to solve them. 
Ev~n in the short amount of time available on~ can begin to assess just 
• 
how successful some of these pro· grams have been. Many problems have become so complex, it ts argued that "band-aid measures" (tempor­ary solutions) are all that can be provided. Others believe that this attitude is self-defeating and that the best approach is advocacy (helping people .0' help themselves). The Portland Plunge's visit to the Everett Drop-in Center illustrates this issue: . The Center. .. is strictly a uop-gap operation. It provides people on the street with a warm place to "drop­in" to sleep and to shower. Absolute· ly no attempt is made to help the alcoholic~ kick their drinking habit. 
We're talking about a placr: that reminded me of a bus depot, with people crashed out under benches and in the middle of the floor. There just seemed to he a g~neral sense of hopelessness :tbout the whole situa­tiou It seems to me that meaning­ful programs are needed to solve this prohlem. We are helping no one with stop-gap organization and temp· orary solutions. We need. . more services that will provide the person in need with a full program of rehabilitation. 
This type of reflection and analysis of the Plunge and the people it involv~s is perhaps the most valuable facet of the experiential learning process. The initial impressions and reactions are im1 10! tant, and some· thing that most Plungers will never forget, but the challenge comes in further reflection when questio• about society and our role in shaping it are considered for perhaps the first time. These reflections so not neces­sarily lead to consistent conclusions. What can be most frustrating is recognizing that some problems have no apparent solution. In other cases, two opposing solution may exist, but a clear-cut decision between them is difficult to make. It is not easy to understand why these c:ootradictions appear. Complex problems may seem stmple or easily solved when viewed out of context. What the Urban 
Plunge  provides  is  a  short  but  
powerful  exposure  to  inner  city  
P!?blems  where  they  exist--in  the  
ctttes.  

What the Plunge does not provide is the answer to every quesuon about poverty and social justice. Out of our experiences and reflections new questions continually arise: What roles do our social institutions play in perpetuating injustice? What roles do they play m working to alleviate poverty What is our part in these processes? What does our own action or inaction say about our attitudes 
towards these social issues? Partici­pation in the Urban Plunge can only raise these questions for us. A lifetime is needed for us to formulate our own answers. 

_ 
--~----------. 
( 
\ . --­
;, .. ") : __..... \........... . 
. 
.......... "'··· 
..... , 
•••• · . .,.-.-• ,.-~~ ••• ~.,..·a-••. 
•• ... _..p.... -················"'····-·\··············· 

\ 
' 
-. 

Ifyou're not intechnology yet, think itover. Ifyou are in technology, talk toTexas Instruments. 

Rendezvous In Spain. 

. You're a software applications specialist. 
When you picked 
this career, you never dreamed that one day you'd rendezvous in Barcelona, Spain with two Navy destroyers. 
But when your company is Texas Instruments and one of your cus­tomers is the U.S. Sixth Fleet. you learn to expect the unexpected. 
The destroyers are equipped with Tl computers and they need new software fast. You come aboard and sail with the Fleet until your job is completed. 
Not a bad assignment for a soft­ware specialist named Susie. You're glad you got into technology. 
The Incredible Talking Chip. 
You're an inte­grated circuit designer at Tl. 
You've helped 
find a way to make a chip talk, something no integrated circuit has ever done before. 
First application: an electronic aid that helps children learn to spell. The world's first talking textbook. 
And that's just the beginning. The talking chip's potential is mind­bending. You're glad you got into technology. 
CampusIntervie\Vs Oct. 18-19, Nov. 7-8, Dec. 3-4 
~ i··:..:. (t;~ 
-. ·::...: {r~ :: .. 
Al'l'! _ _,,N__........... __._ 

Send for the 34-page picture story of Tl people and places. 
Write: George Berryman, Texas Instruments Corporate Staffing, P. 0. Box 225474, 
M.S. 67, Dept. CG, Dallas, Texas 75265 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
Six stories, one plot: 
TheRomance ofOurAge 
isTechnology. 

The Salesman's Dream. 
You're a Tl sales engineer. You've got what is prob­ably one of the most irresistible 
selling messages in the history of 
salesmanship. 
It goes like this: "Hold this Tl-59 Scientific Calculator in your hand. Now, let's compare it to the most popular computer of the 1950s­the IBM 650. 
"The 650 weighed almost three tons, required five to 10 tons of air conditioning a~d 45 square feet of floor space. And it cost $200,000 in 1955 mon~y. 
"Now look at the Tl-59 Calculator you're holding in the palm of your hand. It has a primary memory capacity more than double that of the 650. It performs its principal functions five to 10 times faster. And it retails for under $300." 
With a story like this, the hardest part of your job is holding onto your sample. You're glad you got into technology. 
The Joy Of 
Complication. 
You're in semi­
conductor design 
at Tl. You love it 
when people at 
~. ·. It parties ask you what you do. You say, "I make things complicated." (Pause.) "In fact, I got promoted recently for creating some majorcomplications.'' 
What you mean (but seldom explain) is this: the more active element groups (AEGs) you can put 
See what TI is doing in: 
• 
Microcomputers and microprocessors 

• 
Semiconductor memories 

• 
Linear semiconductor devices 

• 
Microelectronic digital watches 

• 
Calculators 

• 
Minicomputers: hardware, software and systems featuring software compatibility with microprocessors 

• 
Distributed computing systems 

• 
Electronic data terminals 

• 
Programmable control systems 

• 
Data exchange systems 

• 
Advanced Scientific Computers 

• 
Digital seismic data acquisition systems 


on a single chip of silicon, the more 
the average AEG cost goes down. 
In short, you make things cheaper 
by making them more complicated. 
Your work made it possible for a Tl consumer product that sold three years,ago for about $70 to sell today for~14.95. _ 
Your future looks wonderfully complicated. You're at about 100,000 AEGs per chip now and 1,000,000 is in sight. 
You're glad you got into technology. 

Outsmarting . Smog. 
You've always 
designed air­
borne radars for 
Tl customers. 
Now, all of a sudden you know your next radar design is going to stay at the airport. On the ground. 
It's on the ground that traffic controllers at Los Angeles Inter­national Airport have a problem. They can "see" incoming and out­going airplanes on their radar just fine, so long as the air'planes are in the air. 
But when the airplanes are on the ground -touching down, taking off, taxiing, parking-they are some­times impossible to see and control. Ground smog obscures them. 
You believe you have an answer to the smog problem. You dig out the plans for an airborne ground­mapping radar you helped design. You adapt the design so the L.A. controllers can use it to see through smog. It works beautifully. 
Today your smog-piercing radar is widely known as Airport Surface 
• 
Air traffic cqntrol radar and Discrete Address Beacon Systems 

• 
Microwave landing systems 

• 
Radar and infrared systems 

• 
Guidance and controls for tactical missiles 

• 
Worldwide geophysical services 

• 
Clad metals for automotive trim, thermostats, and electrical contacts 

• 
Interconnection products for elec­tronic telephone switching systems 

• 
Temperature-sensitive controls for automobiles and appliances 

• 
Keyboards for calculators and for many other products 


Detection EqtJipment (ASDE). It's standard equipment at L.A. Inter­national and at the airport in Geneva, Switzerland. Other airports with smog and snow problems are expected to have it soon. 
You're glad you're in technology. 

Oil Sleuths International. 
You're a geo­physicist. A good one. You could be with any of the big oil companies. But 
you wanted to get with a company 
whose specialty is the same as 
yours. Exploration. 
That's why you're at n, in Geophysical Service. 
Tl explorer ships, Tl photo­geologic aircraft and Tl truck-and tractor-mounted vibrator systems are working all over the world. They're finding oiL And they're identifying areas where no oil exists, thereby saving huge losses in drilling costs. 
Also, Tl's worldwide computer network and its Advanced Scientific Computer is making 3-D recording and processing possible. This ex­clusive exploration technique is the only practical way to unscramble "no-record" areas on land and sea. 
You're a happy sleuth. You're in on the biggest hunt in history. And your team is out in front. 
You're glad you got into technology. 



r I.,._... 
The Observer Wednesday, October 3, 1979 -page 12 
ConM oress 
•
(QfltffiUeS debates on ' 
a treaty to control the race in 
nuclear arms. 
The debate over the future of ·--------~the strategic arms limitation-APPLICATION treaty continued despite 
SALT treaty ... 
Carter's effort in a nationally
I . I broadcast speech Monday night 
lrlow bemg taken for1it from to defuse the issue and separate the Senate's considera­
1 tion of the SALT accord.
the off-campus I In his speech, Carter said heI Idid ~ot win agreement from the 1 CoUNC'IL Sovtets to change the status of
I the Soviet troops. I Any interested OC I He said he p~anned to !~ 4 
-crease U.S. survetllance of mih-I Student may apply I tary activities in Cuba, bolster 
U.S. naval and military pres-I I ence in the area and would1 Shannon \ 1 speed more aid to Latin
N •11 American nations that feel
I 
evt e I threatened by the Soviet-Cuban 
, . alliance. 
the Student GOV t But administration officials said yesterday that Carter does I Offices by Friday 1not plan to take any stepsI against the Soviet Union andI Oct 5 I had d~cided against linking the
· troop Issue to such matters atI--------·trade with the Russians.
The sources, who asked that
• 
WASH. D.C. 
CLUB 
meeting tonite 7:00 Alumni Hall Basement 
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITY NOT AVAILABLE IN PRIVATE INDUStRY 

H you want to get into nuclear engineering, start by getting into the Nuclear Navy. 
The Navy operates more than half the reactors in America. Our nuclear training is the most comprehensive. You start. by earning your commission as a Navy Officer. Then we give you a year of advanced nuclear training. During your career, you'll get practical, hands-on experience with our nuclear powered fleet. 
H that sounds like the kind of responsibility you're looking for, speak to the Naval Officer Representative when he visits your Placement Office on Oct 3&4 or call (collect) 312-657·2169. 
WASHINGTON (AP) . R'epubli-
I 
can leaders in the Senate said , yesterday the SALT II tt;eaty cannot be ratified now, partly because President Carter has failed to separate the fact from the continumg furor over Soviet combat troops in Cuba. 
But the Senate's Democratic leadership fought to save the treaty, saying Carter has succeeeded in demonstrating that the presence of 2,600 soldiers in Cuba in no way overshadows the importance of they not be identified, said Carter also has decided to continue an ''even-handed 
policy' '  between  the  Soviet  
Union and China.  
In  the  Senate,  Republican  

leader Howard H. Baker of Tennessee said he found Carter's response to the Soviet troop issue ''disappointing and inadequate" and said his count shows SALT II would attract less than 60 votes ifa final test were held now. 
The votes of 67 senators are needed for ratification. 
Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was re­ported to be considering a reservation to the treaty that would state that the accord would not go into effect until the Soviet brigade in Cuba is withdrawn or dismantled. 
But Baker, at a news confer­ence, called that idea ''dodging the issue and a cop out." He said he would rather see that withdrawal of the brigade as a precondition to ratification. 
Sen. John Tower, R·Texas, chairman of the Senate Repub­lican conference, said there is no 'chance now of the treaty being ratified. 
Tower predicted that the Democratic leadership will postpone action on the treaty 
Palmer,· Ryan pitch playoff opener 
Manager Jim Fregosi of An-right, he can beat anybody. He once did we play five games." 
/ • • • Stargell 
(continued from page 16] 
Collins, who stole second, and then walkingJoe Morgan. That brought in Kent Tekulve, ace of the Pirates bullpen, appearing in his 95th game this season. Tekulve fed a double play ball to Dave Concepcion, en1'ing the rallr.. It was the last Reds hit untll there were two out in the 11th and, by then, Stargell's shot had put Pittsburgh in control. 
Both Seaver and Candelaria experienced one bad inning each. For the Reds' ace, it was the third. Phil Garner, leading off, drilled a 2-0 pitch into the right field seats for the game's first run.. 
The Pirates added another when speedster Omar Moreno rit,>ped a hit to right, and Collins mtssed his try for a diving catch, allowing the ball to reach the wall. Moreno ran it into a triple and scored when Foli hit a sacrifice fly to right field. 
Seaver then walked the next two batters, Parker and Stargell, but got out of the jam until next year and said the delay could extend to April. 
But Senate Democratic leader Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia said he still intends to bring the treaty up this year. Tower said if Byrd does bring the treaty before the Senate this year, he will likely face an attempt to send it back to the Foreign Relations Committee, either until 1980 or indefinitely. 
Meanwhile, the committee is prepared to conclude its long senes of hearings on the pact and to procede to the considera­tion of possible changes. Its schedule has been set back while it waits for a report by the Senate Intelligence Committee on whether Soviet compliance with the pact is verifiable. ­
Baker said he does not believe Senate debate on SALT II should be postponed. He said it should be changed by amendments dealing with such issues as the Soviet backfire bomber and the SS-18 missile. 
' 'As of now this tr<"aty will fail, in part bt:cause of Presi­dent Carter's handling of the Russian troops in Cuba but mosdv because its a bad treaty," Baker said. 
"Cfill it linkage if you like," he said. ''But I am finally going to vote on the SALT II treaty depending ot;t how the Russian 
by retiring John Milner on a pop fly. 
The Reds got even in the fourth when Concepcion opened with a single to left. On the first pitch to Foster, Cincinnati played hit-and-run. Concepcion took off for second but slowed to a trot when Foster jumped on Candelaria's deliv­ery and sent a 400-footer in to the second deck in dead center field, tying the score 2-2. 
Bench followed Foster's 
homer with an infield single but was erased on a double play started by Garner. The Reds managed only two more hits the rest of the night as Candelaria and the parade of relievers held Cincinnati in check. 
The end of the game, however, was full of drama as the capacity crowd of 55,006 stood roaring at the last-ditch Cincinnati rally. But Robinson stopped them with his game-ending strikeout of Knight, giving the Pirates the jump in this best-of-five series. 
It was the fifth extra inning game in National League play­chan~e the status quo in Cuba. 
~~  ~  behavmg,"  not  only  m  
Cuba but around the world.  
He  said  the  president  in  
essance  "did  nothing"  to  

Prwr to his address, Carter had maintained that the situa­tion in Cuba could not be allowed to remain unchansed. But in his speech, the prestdent said the Soviets would not remove the troops from the island nation. 
Carter said he had been given "assurances from the highest levels of the Soviet government'' that the troops in Cu~~ are engaged only in trammg. 
Meanwhile, at the Defense Department, officials said a force of Marines and sailors aboard four amphibious ships will stage a reinforcement demonstration late this morvh at the Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba. 
The exercise, seen as a modest show of force, forms part of Carter's promised re­sponse to the Russians. 
Pentagon spokesman Thomas Ross said about 1,600 to 1,800 Marines will carry out an assault landing exercise at Guanranamo, then will partici­pate in maneuvers an dartillery and firing drills for about four weeks. 
was a better pitcher this year than ever, and he's going to get better.'' 
''I have no explanation of why my record is what is is against them," Ryan said. 
"They have a balanced club, but I don't pitch any different against them than I do against Boston or New York." 
While Fregosi said Frost was ''probably my best pitcher alll. year," he named Ryan to pitch the opener because ''Frost has had arm trouble and can't pitch with three days rest, while Ryan can pitch twice." 
Palmer had expressed concern about his ability to come back in the fifth game, which would be played Sunday in California, but Weaver has more concern­.ed about getting the jump on the Angels. 
"We'll just have to wait and see about the fifth game,'' Weaver said. "We've been in five other playoffs and only 
off history and the fourth one involving Cincinnati. The Reds had won the first three -in 1970 and '75 against Pittsburgh and in 1973 against the New York Mets. But the magic ran out ~h.is time around. 
. Goshen
• 
[continued from page 16] 
Again and again, though, Go­alien's defense corps cleared the ball out of danger. Groff was not severely tested. even during the last 25:49 of the pme when the Irish had a man advantage as a result of a red card given to a Maple Leaf player. 
As the game ended and the ioshen players acted like they · · just won the World Series, painful ~ression of dis-on the faces of the Irish indicated that Notre Dame 
·'.W a long way from where 'd. like to be. 
BALTIMORE (AP)-Jim Palmer made a couple ofobliga­tory needling remarks about Earl Weaver, his manager and antagonist, and then announc­ed himself fit to start-the American League Playoffs. 
The 33-year·old right-hander, with a 10-6 record this season after winning 20 or more games in eight of the past nine, will be on the mound for the Baltimore Orioles when they open the best-of-five series Wednesday night against the California Angels.
"There' s no pressure on me, '' cracked Palmer, who missed 14 starts during the season be­cause of assorted injuries, "I have the best pitcher in base­ball following me, If I lose, so what?'' 
Plamer referred to lefty Mike Flanagan, Baltimore's second game starter who topped the majore leagues with a 23-9 record. 
gels has named strike out artist Nolan Ryan and Dave Frost, both 16-game winners, to start th~ first two games in Baltimore before action shifts to the West Coast. 
Weaver, whose pitching rota­tion was at first questioned by Palmer, reiterated his reason­ing as the Orioles prepared for a final workout Tuesday on a rain-soaked Memorial Stadium field. 
'.'Palmer has a 7-2 record in postseason games," w·eaver said, "He doesn'r-beat himself and he's been through all the hoopla before. In my mind, there was no reason not to start him." 
Fregosi also has asked to explain whe he chose to open with Ryan, who has a 5-13 lifetime record against the Ori­oles and is 0-6 in nine starts since last beating Baltimore. 
"He's due to win, ain't he?" Fregosi said. "If Nolan Ryan is 
... \' "-.l ,.·"" . • '.-,j . ­

The Observer -Sports 
• 
' ""l\_r
·r 

... Computers 
[continued from page 16] 
"Once these forms are re­
ceived in our office, the real 
work begins,'' notes ] ohn Mul­
cahy, SIC General Manager 
"We have a crew of three 
keypunchers who come in at 
midnight or later and punch all 
the information on the club 
stat sheets for a single game 
onto computer cards. The stats 
for the entire League must be 
punched, sometimes for as 
many as 10 or 11 games, before 
anything else can begin.'' 
Once all the games have been 
coded onto cards, the computer 
must check for discrepencies 
and obvious errors. All of the 
cards are. run through the 
computer, and any stats which 
do not agree (e.g. home team's walks by batters do not equal yisitors,' walks by pitchers) are tmmedtately red-flagged and the computer stops. 
''This is the first step in the verification process,'' explains Mulcahy. ''The stats must be as accurate as possible, so we've developed stringent boundaries to catch as many errors as possible right off the bat.'' 
Only after each and every AL box score from the previous day has been verified (normally a two-hour process), does SIC begin the task of complication. 
The same statistics the com­puter had verified two hours later are run through again, but this time the computer updates the individual and team statis­tics in evry category, requiring close to an hour to process the­entire league. 
Sports Briefs._~ 
Herzog fired 'for good of organization ' 
KANSAS CITY* MO (AP) -Whitey H~rzog, who guided the Kansas City Royals to three straight division champion­sh.ips_, was fired Tuesday as the club braced for a torrent of cntlctsm. 
"They're not renewing my contract," said a pale, shaken Herzog moments after emerging from General Manager)oe Burke's office. "They just said it was for the good of the organization." 
Herzog has long been one of the most popular men in Kansas City, and reaction from fans and players was swift. The ticket office said that within an hour of the firing 44 people called to cancel their season tickets. 
Softball semi -final pairings announced 
The semi-final pairings for men's 16-inch softball have been announced by the interhall office. Today on the field the Balls will be facing fischer 1, beginning at 4:30 p.m. Fozzie's Bears will be facing Chico on Field 2, with a date and time to be arranged. Fisher and Chico are the home teams in these contests. 
Cross country race held today 
For all you people that are really into jogging, the non-varsity athletic department is sponsoring a 2. 5 mile cross country race today, beginning at 4:30 p.m. on Burke Memorial Gold Course. Everyone, male or female , is invited to compete. If you have any questions, contact the non-varsity office at 6100. 
Torre remains as Mets' manager 
NEW YORK (AP) ·Joe Torre has been re-signed as manager of the New York Mets with the proviso that his contract may be extended at midseason in 1980, the National League club announced Tuesday. 
"Joe's contract can be willingly extended," said Mets General ManagerJoe Me Donald, "during the All-Star break next season, providing all parties are agre,able." 
Cubs hire Gomez to replace Franks 
CHICAGO (AP) -Preston Gomez, who had flings at managing the San Diego Padres and the Houston Astros, will manage the Chicago Cubs in 1980. 
Gomez, 56, arid a native ofOfiente, Cuba, was been a coach with the Los Angeles Dodgers the past three seasons. He will be. introduced to the press in Chicago next Monday. 
Gomez succeeds Herman Franks, who resigned last week after piloting the 'Cubs for three seasons. 
"No one really realizes the full extent of infonnaiton we have at our disposal," notes Mulcahy. ''The speed with which information is recalled is one of our biggest assets.'' 
Yet there ts still one more important duty for SIC --get­ting the updated statistics to each American League club. All the statistics are transferred via magnetic tape to a General Electric computer with a nation­wide data hookup. Thus, each AL team can print its own, as well as their opponenets stats, merely by calhng its local GE 
computer from  their  own  in­ 
office typewriter terminal.  
The finished  product  is  an  

alphabetical listmg of indivi­duals in 19 different offensive categories (including SICs new­est stat, game-winning rbi's) and 17 pitching departments. Also listed are won-loss break­downs vs. each club at home and on the road, along with listings for day game, night game, vs. right-banders, vs. left-banders and other records. · Even home, road and average attendance is figured. 
''The result is a self-suffici­ent statistical survey of each team, " comments costanza. "It saves several hours a day for each club to have their scats done for them.'' But the report for each club is 
but a fraction of SIC's statistical and comparative capabilities. · The SIC computer spends many a morning and afternoon figur­ing less-known but widely­demanded rankings and statis­tics. 
Rankings of the top-ten per­formers in 15 batting depart­ments (including on-base per­. centage, slugging percentage and total bases) and 10 pitching departments (winnin8. pet, com-. plete games and stnkeouts. to 
name a few), as well as club batting, club fielding, club pitching, and club designanted hitting summaries are part of SIC's "daily stat run." 
''We receive calls from as many as 10 to 12 clubs a day, as well numerous newspa{>ers and magazines requesting mforma­tion," recalls Costanza. 
"We like to feel that we've introdttced many things that have become commonplace now. · For example, before 1973, slugging percentage and on-base percentage were never spoken of except in the middle of winter. Some Sunday in December you could sit down with the paper and find out the Ted Wilhams led the league in slug8.ing--now we've made that a datly ranking." 
"Likewise, we even have breakdowns of each individu~l batter at home, on the road, in day games, in night games, vs, right-handed and vs. left· handed pitching against each of the other 13 ballclubs." 
Once a month SIC also runs 
club and individual day-by-day 
sheets--listings of what each 
player and each team did in 
each stat category on each day 
of the season. 
''This printout is another part of our verification process,'' concedes Mulcahy. When we send these day-by-days to each club, most will compare them to their records to make sure our figures are accurate~ Our stats are far and away the most accurate the league has ever had thanks to our system of cross-checks.'' 
Yet what type of impact have computers had on basebaJI? 
Alot. according to Mulcahy; 
•'The newspaper eqverar and 
use of our system :by P nlcn around the league seema . to have created more fan interest and demand.'' 
''The computer stat systefl\ has been tremendous--a giant step forward,'' praises -Bob Fishel, American league Public Relations chief. ''Although it has cost a lot of money, we are well ahead of where we were before. In fact, I've asked various public rela­tions directors around the league if we should eliminate the system because of the expense and problems we have had in the past. Despite the complaints that have been lodged here and there, they 
agreed that to eliminate the computer would be a terrible step backward." 
NEXT: A look at the NCAA. 

phone  Then vou need to take advantaKe ofour pricesI I  
272~0312 277~1691  Tues. Wed .. and Thurs. receive 10% ()If. ' _a stylet} cut shamPoo, air dtJ',  
272~8471  reK. price  8.50  /)tease show ID  
.ask for Ann, Mart')', Donna or .Toanne  

HOURS: lUES, WED. SAT 8:30-5:30 54tJ3 TERRACE LANE THURS. FRI 8:30-8:30 One Alor.k f as! of Ironwood North nf :;t;!IR Roafl i'3
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 
( 
DECATHLON'' 
' 
W~t 1Kni!lllts 
men's hair styling only 5 mirtutes from campus Are _')lou tired ~( hiKh (Jrices;" 
Octpber 4. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 7:30PM $9.00/8.00 Reserved 
TICKETS ON SALE WED. SEPT. 5 
Available at The A.C.C. Box Office, Robertson's in South Bend & Elkhart, St. Joseph Bank, Main Office, I st Bank, Main Office, the Elkhart Truth and the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Suspended 
• Chord in Elkhart, South Bound Records in Ft. Wayne, The Record Co. in Plymouth, Fanta-C Records in Benton Harbor, and River City Records on Western Ave.. U.S. 31 North, Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend, 
and Dunes Plaza in Mi~higan City. 
show on Thursday 



------~ ~---­

The Observer • Spo11_s Wednesday, October 3, 1979 -page 14 
Ruggers blast Ball State 
hy Mike Previte Sports W n'ter 
rout v. 1. to defeat overwhelminely 2. to put to disorderly fltght 3. to search by poking ana rummaging 
Choose any of the above definitions and apply it to the 47-3 thrashing Notre Dame's. A Ruggers gave to the visiting 
Cardinals  of  Ball  State  on  
Saturday.  In  an  awesome  
display  of  offense,  the  Irish  

pushed the ball across the goal line for ten trys, in addition to 'two conversions and a field goal by "Torch" Marshall for good measure. 
Pat Giorgio led the way with a team season-high of three trys, while Jim Bowers notched two of his own, including one ot the more spectacular plays of the contest. 
With a play right out of Dan Devine's Purdue game film; Bowers resorted to some trick­ery while the teams lined up for a penalty kick attempt (equiva­lent of a 20 yard field goal). Rather than boot the ball through the uprights, Bowers picked it up and with a burst of speed bolted through a sur­prised Cardinal defense to rack up another Irish four-pointer. 
Among the scorers for N.D. were Brian Hannigan, Okie O'Connor and an elated Rico Harper. "We were fired up for this one after losing a tough one to Purdue last week," Harper noted. 
In an equally impressive victory, the B Ruggers crushed their Ball State opponents, 30-0, thanks to trys by F,J . Bronsnan, ] oe Witcher, Mike Morrissette and Steve Iselin.· Next test for the Irish comes next Sunday, as the Ruggers do battle with the Indy Reds before returning home on October 13 to face Xavier. 
SMC/ND match rescheduled 
The women's tennis match 
between  Saint  Mary's  and  
Notre  Dame,  scheduled  for  
yesterday  at  3:30  p.m.,  was  

cancelled because of rainy weather. The match has been rescheduled for today at 3:30 
p.m. on Notre Dame's Courtney Tennis Courts (behind the ACC). 
fulnesbury 
by Garry ·Trudeau 

7Jic KISS/Nfifl? S!OOESNilHe~: l£6ff/MATC ~OR APt:PT PRt»fJTTON? tiEASKEP HAMtt:!(J'I 
Molarity 
The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

J t 
I . 
by Michael Molinelli 
1 7 11 14 15 16 17 18  ACROSS Fruit Spotlights Grand-, Nova Scotia Kind of shutter Swag Deli delicacy Vic of song Falana of  26 Happening 27 Opera singer 30 cath. or Prot. 32 Pose for 33 Turkish title 34 Cubic meters 37 Fuel 40 Musical  50 51 53 55 57 60 64  Former capital of Serbia Relaxed Composer Harold Getz and Kenton Shellmates Put in the bank "My Country  10 Contrives 11 Heavenly bodies 12 Sculptor 13 Precise 22 Engages a crew 23 Oust 25 Price 27 Foundation 28 "An atheist half be­ 
19 20 21 24  song City in Oklahoma Iranian title Beautiful in pictures Part of a play  42 44 45 47 48  pieces One­(singly) Mary Baker-Signaled agreement Racket Bikini part  65 66 68 69 70 71  -of Thee" Poi source First game Blaster's need Is sick Stove part Forerunner of the CIA  29 31 35 36 38 39  lieves -" Cleans buildings Directs light color Sault-Marie Friend: Fr. Furnish  
72  Plum  41  Actor Lew  
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  73  Joins  43  Yemen city  


46 Bestow DOWN 49 Loos and 1 River Louise bottoms 52 Posit 2 Oriental 53 Tending nurse toward 3 Thread: 54 Checks comb. form 
56 Sun-dried 4 Hilo hellos brick 
5 Anais-58 Brad 6 Expert 59 A Guthrie 7 Universal 
61 A Bancroft 8 An Elihu 
67 Play on N.Mex. 
words 

~LEARN~ 
• Business in the British University System 
• 
Drama with the Staff of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts 

• 
Fashion Design and Merchandising 


and many other-Traditional Programs at University of London Colleges je.g. London School of Economics, Queen Mary, Kings) 
~LIVE~ 
in fully-furnished, centrally-heated accommodations Reservations available for one semester or for a full year. 
~RSVP~ 
to the long-established, fully-accredited, coed program STUDY ABROAD, MARYMOUNT COLLEGE, TARRYTOWN, N.Y. 10591 (914-631-32001 
.__,_,...........-----..-------------------------------------------­

lHAT'S MY
/TIS? 
UNPt/5TANPIN6. 

Thanks toyou••. it \YOrks... for 
ALL 
OFUS 

UnitedWay 

.------·----
-· . ---­
---...... . .... _.,...--. 


.·..... a 

Wednesday, October 3, 1979 -page 16
_J2orts 

Goshen defeats ND, 3-1; Hunter upset at offense 
by Gary Grassey tel •· nothin~. We've made Sports Wn'ter their season.' Playing Goshen has alwa~s been a ·bit of a nightmare for
When it comes to winning .&cer games, a team simply Notre Dame. The Irish have his to be able to score goals. beaten the Maple Leafs· only 
on field Last season, once in five years.
last night Cartier it was Goshen that ended Notre~tunst Goshen College, Notre Dame's twenty-six game win­
Dame's soccer team scored one goal, three minutes into the ning streak. 
Sami Kahale got the Irish offcoytest. For the next eighty­
Jeven minutes, the Irish could to a quick start at 3: 11 of the put nothing on the scoreboard, first half when Goshen goalie and as a result · Goshen pre­Daryl Groff misplayed a high vailed 2-1, dropping their rec­crossing shot into the net. ord to 6-6-1. Goshen is now 5-0. Ninety seconds later, Groff was 
assessed with a foul for char­
COach Rich Hunter was livid in the Notre Dame locker room ging Kahale and Notre Dame 
after the game. He fumed was awarded penalty kick. 
about his team's inability to put HalfbackJim Sabitus, however, 
the ball in the net, saying, "We placed the shot wide of the 
do it to ourselves every time -­goal. 
we look great until we get With hundreds of Maple Leaf tWenty yards from the net. fans cheering theJD on, Goshen Those last twenty yards we got right back in the game. don't get the ball across (the Brian Swartzendruber lead a Aeld) where it'sldangerous. fastbreak into Irish territory 
11 We've ~iven away four, may­and hit Paul Sawatsky on the Sami Kahale (in white, center] scored Notre Dame's only goal in their 2-1/oss to Goshen be five wms this year because right side. Sawatsky blasted a College last night at Cartier Field. [photo by Doug Chnstian] we can't score. I honestly don't shot over the outstretched arms know what to say anymore. of netminder ] ohn Milligan. You can't play with anybody The ball hit the crossbar and Irish third 
aood if ~~)U don't put the ball in dropped in for a 1-1 score at the the net. 12:11 mark. Another major factor in the Notre Dame sputtered on of­
Boilermakers win ND Invitational 
defeat for Notre Dame was the fense for the rest of the half. absence of senior fullback Tom The Maple Leafs took the by Btl/ McCormick had to settle for third in a field gren tied for fourth with a 72. Crotty. The co-captain and o_pportumty to capitalize on a Sports W n"ter :-.f (14) schools. The remaining Irish scores mainstay of the Irish defense defensive miscue by the Irish Purdue, led by Eric Dutt who were as followt Dave Knee pulled a thigh muscle against with 32:22 expired, when Ran­Well, the guys from West fired a one-under-par 70, had a (75), Bill Me Guinness(76), Tom Oakland College on Sunday. It dy Eigsti found Paul Hershy Lafayette did it again. After team score ot 364. While six McCarthy(76), Tim Sacheck was the first time in the last streaking in between the Irish winning the Indiana State golfers compete for each team, (78), and freshman Stoney Fed­fifty-four contests that Crotty defenders for the eventual Championships last week, the only the five lowest scores are man (80). 
has sat out a game. game winner. Purdue golf team came to Notre compiled. Thus, Purdue had an O'Sullivan was encouraged by Hunter could only reiterate the For the remainder of the first Dame's Burke Memorial Golf outstanding average of 72.8 per the performances of hts two more obvious faults in Notre half and most of the second course on Monday and captured player. "Purdue is a team to be seniors, Lundgren and Knee. 
Dame's ~lay when he stated stanza, Notre Dame lived in another first place trophy in the reckoned with," commented He is convinced that they "can 
bluntly, ' We didn't make good Goshen's portion of the field. 18-hole Notre Dame Invitational Irish coach Noel O'Sullivan. stay with anyone." comer kicks, we couldn't chip, tournament. Notre Dame, look­''They have a lot of talent.'' O'Sullivan stressed the fact
[continued on page 12]
we couldn't make crossing pas-ing for a win on its home co use, Olivet College surpised every­that the purpose of the fall one as the Dearborn, Michigan competition is to serve as a school grabbed second place tune-up for the real season in with a 369, while eight strokes the spring. While Not Dame behtnd was Notre Dame at 377. hasn't come up with a first
Baseball enters age o_f computers 
"We had hoped for a better place {>erformance yet this fall, accomplish statistically what team production,'' O'Sullivan O'Sullivan is pleased with what 
club fills out two sheets of 
This is the first in a series of could have only been dreamed statistics for the game played said. his team has accomplished. three articles which look. at the of before. that day. On the sheets are It was on the greens where the "We're on the right track," he 
importance ofcomputers in the Although both the NFL and Irish lost strokes on Monday. said. "By finishing third in both 
isted the individual and team sporting world. Today 's feature NBA rely to some extent on totals in every stat category for "The {>utting just wasn't there, the State Championship and the 
fooks at computers and profes­computers for statistics, the both pitchers and batters. 0'Sullivan admitted. ''Nobody Notre Dame Invitational, we sional athletics. American League ofProfession­These sheets are then sent by was able to get hot with their have shown that we can com­al Baseball, through the aus­phone via a telecopy machine putter.'' pete.'' 
A total of 84 golfer vied for The Irish golf team will
pices of their own Sports Infor­which reproduces a CO{>Y of 
individual homors in the tour­conclude its fall campaign nextmation Center (SIC), is the only each sheet on a machine m the 
bJ Htll Marquard professional league to compile SIC offices. nament. Eric Dutt was the Sunday with an 18-hole dual Spurts w·nter statistics totally by computer. medalist with his score of 70, , match against Michigan in Ann [continued on page 13] while Notre Dame's John Lund-Arbor.
Located in Quincy, Mass.,
' 
\ i. In recent years, we've wit­the SIC is responsible for nessed countless changes in compiling the individual stats of 
sports on the professional, col­each American League club, as Bucs beat Reds legiate and high school levels. well as the league leaders in Designated hitters, extra refer­over 25 categories. 
Starge/1 's homer powers Pittsburgh 
ees, 30-and 24-second clocks ''The idea of using compu­
and a mu"ltitude ofother innova­ters was concieved back in CINCINNATI (AP) -Otd/ro starter John Candelaria for of the rally. It didn't mattertions have been introduced to 1973;"· explains Joe Costanza, Willie Stargell wallope a eight innings. The ace of the because the Pirates had plentymake sports more entertaining SIC statistician. ''Upon the three-run homer in the 11th Reds bullpen held Pittsburgh for winner Gram) ackson.and exciting for the fans. retirement of the league's stat­inning, carrying the Pittsburgh off through the ninth and lOth With two out in the 11th,
And the resultant increase in istician at the end of the 1972 Pirates to a 5-2 victory over the innings, allowing only one Jackson surrendered a single tofan interest has necessitated season, the president of Bay Cincinnati Reds in the opening harmless single before the deci­Dave Concepcion and walk 
to 
more rapid, more accurate and State Milling, a multi-million game of the National League sive 11th. Foster, bringing)ohnny Bench more detailed dissemination of dollar flour company here in championship series Tuesday · Tim Foli, who had delivered a to the plate. Don Robinson, theinformation about the individ­Massachusetts, offered the use night. · dutch sacri£.ce fly earlier in the Pirates fifth pitcher of theuals and teams involved, partic­of his company's computer· Stargell unloaded on the first game, opened the 11th with a night, relieved Jackson andularly ·in the form of statistical equipment to Joe Cronin, then pitch from reliever Tom Hume, single to left. Matt Alexander walked Bench on a 3-2 delivery,data. No longer is the average the president of the American sending it deep into the right-went in to run as slugger Dave But the next batter, Rayfan content with mere batting League. center field seats to break open Parker came to the plate. The Knight, struck out to end the averages or scoring totals ·· he ''We went to MIT to have the the tight, tense battle and bring count went to 1-~ and Parker game.must know who ranks where by initial programs designed (writ­a sea of Pirates out of the fouled off four pttches before For seven innings, the gamehow much and with what fig~ ten, incidentally, in a form of dugout to greet him. drilling a single to left, which was a brilliant duel between ures, and he wants to know BASIC computer langua~e) and It was the third career homer sent Alexander to second. Seaver and Candelaria. Each these as U{>-to-the-minute as we now have 95 at our dtsposal. in playoff action for the 38-year-Stargell was next and he allowed five hits and two runds possible. . The system for compiling and old slugger, who was one of the wasted no time with Hume. He and left the game in the eighth, 
Yet sports publicity depart­printing the statistics takes 10 keys in Pittsburgh's d~sh to t~e jumped o_n t~e firstjitch he saw Seaver for a pinch hitter and ments and statistics services to 11 hours a day, and begins at NL East title. He htt rwo tn and sent It htgh an deep to the Candelaria for reliever Enrique are rapidly approaching their the home ballpark of each 1974 in a losing effort against rig~t:center field seats for the Romo.limit in manpower and capabil­American League game on a Los Angeles. decisive runs. 
Romo got into a jam, yielding ity, and thus have turned to th~ given day. Hume was working in relief Pittsburgh threatened to add a one-out single to Dave computer, man's electrical file­The public relations director of Tom Seaver, who had pitched to its lead_. but Reds reliever 
[continued on page 12]
box and calculatQr of data, to or travelling secretary of each brilliantly against Pirates Dave Tomlin choked off the rest 




