• • • Grateful Dead review pages 8-9 

VOL. XIV, NO. ~i2 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1), 1979 

Tw-o campus groups tnobilize in Cambodian refugee aid effort 
Two campus organizations have mobilized efforts in an attempt to provide spiritual and financial support for the perishing Cambodian masses. 
One group. the Students Concerned for Cambodia, has p'lanned a campus-wide dinner fast an<i a free Nazz concert to be held on Monday. Nov. 19. The committee has also planned to hold direct collectio·ns, both at the dining halls and before the Clemson game. 
Another organization, represented by Keenan rector Fr. Richard Convers, has coordinated an effort called the ''Cambodian Response'' which will employ dormitory residents in door-to-door solicitation for contributions. Conyer's group has also scheduled collections from campus organizations and a mass to be celebrated by Fr. Heshurgh on Fridav. Nov. 16 at) p.m. • 
.John Murphy, a spokesman for the SCC, said that his group first contacted Fr. Hesburgh to discover whether they could provide any significant assistance to Cambodia. "He-said that the national independent relief agencies would take anything they could get,'' Murphy 
~tared. 
Murphy held the organizational meeting of the 
sec last evening, and he stated that over 200 
people attended. "We were really informally 
organized," Murphy explained, "but now we've 
got manpower and we've got committees." 
Murphy said that the SCC has contacted Catholic Relief Services in New York in order to e-armark funds for the six Holv Cross Sisters who recently departed for Thailan'd to serve as nurses for the Cambodian refugees. 
The SCC is now printing banners a*1 poster;; which will publicize the atrocity of the Cambo­dian situation. '·All the overhead is coming our of our pockets," Murphv observed. "bur.we're trying to get money from the alumni ami 
students.'' 
The second group's Cambodian Response drive 
was nicknamed the "Life March." but Fr. 
Conyers emphrasized that the drive was not 
meant to replace the traditional Senior Death 
March. "People have a choice," Conyers explained, ''between the luxury of drinking and the call for a more significant contribution." 
[Continued on page 11 ] 

Sisters leave for Thailand 
by Mary Leavitt Cambodia. The sisters volun­nurses. She received a positive teered for the job through the reply, and only a ft>w days later A group of Holy Cross Sisters Catholic Relief Service and will the nuns were on their way to left early this week for be working in the camp as New York for a briefing session. Bangkok, Thailand to work in a nurses for at least three Six sisters volunteered to refugee camp with victims from months. work in the camp. They are Sr. "It has all happened so Helen Marie, Sr. Maureen quickly, we have barely had Grady, Sr. Kathryn Callahan, time to catch our breath," said Sr. Miriam Paul, Sr. Paula
Militan.ts continue to hold hostages; 
Sr. Bertrand, secretary to Sr. Goettlemann and Sr. Madeleine Olivia Marie, who is in charge Marie. All are qualified nurses of the trip. who have worked at hospitals

U.N. pi'cks up efforts to free them: 
Less rhan two weeks ago, throughout the United States. Marie began to hear rumors Sr. Helen Marie, who had been (i\P) -In two moves ot a grim undergoing treatment for Iran. U.S. officials later said about people who were not a hospital administrator at one 
1
global chess game, Iran tried to cancer in a New York hospital. the amount involved was less qualified as nurses working in time. was appointed medical 
pull its billions of dollars <Jut of They declared that any than $6 billion. the camps with the Cambodian coordinarc~r by th<" Catholic American banks vesterda~' but attempt to compromise on their The Caner administration refugees. Concerned about the Relief Service. was checked bv an emer~ency "great divine move" directed countered it quickly. situation. she contacted the The conditions under which 
freeze on Iranian funds orJered hv Avatollah Ruhollah After an urgent meeting of Catholic H.elief Service and bv President Carter. Effotfts to Khomeirii 1s strongly de­U.S. Treas.urv officials and a askecl if they needed any [continued on page 10) free the US Embassy hosdages nounced bv us and would be '5:4'5 a.m. c~ll by Treasury in Tehran shifted to the U~ited det>med treason,'' Tehran Secretarv G. William Miller to Nations. Radio reponed. Caner. the-president signed an 


Iranian earthquake
SeLretarv of Sure C\-rui-; R. This mav have been aimed at order blocking Iranian govern­Vance tlew to '\; ('W york i and official I'ranian statements ment assets. conferred with U. ~. Secre~ary­Tuesday indica1ing the hos­The official reason for the C~eneral Kurt Waldheim. ]who tages might be freed before the emergency-powers order was to 
kills 500, injures scores 
has offered to mediate the t;risis return of the shah. if certain ensure that American financial that erupted Nov. 4 when conditions were met. The claims against Iran would be (AP) -A strong earthquake thousands of sleeping villagers. Iranian militants seized! the United States rebuffed the paid. Miller said the freeze flattened at least 18 villages in The tremor was felt in embassv, in which they ho~d 98 offer. sa.ying there would be no took effect before the Iranians northeast Iran early yesterday, Mashhad, 'SOO miles east of bilstage.s. ! negotiations while the hostages could make anv substantial killing at least 500 persons, Tehran, but none of the famous 
were lwld. transfers of fun<is. rescue workers said. domed mosques, tall minaretsVance declined commelt al> 
he left Waldheim's town h mse Iran's foreign affairs chief, In another development, Scores were reported injured or other buildings in the hoh 
after talks of slighrly more han Abolhassan Bani Sadr, was one Bani Sadr accused the United in the quake that Ayatollah city suffered any damage. an hour. Before the mee ing, of those who had sounded States of airlifting paratroopers Ruhollah Khomeini, the Shirazi said. he was asked about Iran' s~call somewhat conciliatory to Bahrain, in the Persian Gulf, nation's revolutionary leader, The quake measured 6. 7 on for a U.N. Security Co neil Tuesday, as he sought U.N. for a military operation to free called "tragic and the Richter scale, the U.S. meeting and said, "We ave intervention in the cnsis. But the hostages, the Yugoslav frightening." Geological Survey in Denwr indicated that if the hos age he took a firmer stand Wednes­news agency Tanjug reported Sources in the holy city of reported, but Tehran Radio. question is resolved, then v.~e're day, telling reporters in the from Tehran. Bahrain denied Mashhad said bodies were still monitored in London, placed 
prepared-to see the Sec111rity Iranian capital, "Our position it, and U.S. officials denied a being dug out by troops rushed the quake's magnitude at 5.6. Council go forward and deal remains unchanged," Tehran similar report that they were to the wide area of destruction. Tehran Radio said the quake with the issues that anyone radio reported. prepared to stage a military Hundreds of poor peasants shook a wide area of rhe wishes to put before it, includ-­The Iranian decision to with­operation from the Gulf area. were said to be homeless. province from Tabas, Ferdvws ing the Iranians." draw funds from American Bani Sadr, accusing "It is possible the death-toll and Gonabad and said 280 
The Moslem militants hold­banks was announced at a Washington of pushing the will exceed 1,000,'' said bodies had been recovered from ing 62 Americans and 36 third­Tehran news conference by world toward war, has called for Mohammed Ali Shirazi, debris in Qaen, 200 miles south nation embassy employees as Bani Sadr. a meeting of the U.N. Security reached by telephone from of Mashhad. hostages showed· ·no sign of He said the Khomeini regime Council, whose 1) member Nicosia, Cyprus. The offical Iranian Pars news easing their stand -that the had decided to pull what he said nations last week con\kmned Shirazi, son of Ayatollah Ali agency said the epicenter of the captives will not be freed until was $12 billion in Iranian the embassy occupation. U.N. Shirazi, Hashhad's religious quake was 150 miles south of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi government funds out of U.S. diplomats said they were "dis­leader, said the quake struck Mashhad in mountain country is returned to Iran to stand trial banks and re-deposit them in inclined" to hold a meeting at before dawn local time, for his life. The shah is banks of nations "friendly" to .Iran's request. crumbling dwellings on top of [continued on page io] 
. j; 


News in brief 
Oil companies ' accounting methods understate profits 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Three consumer groups said vesterdav that che way they figure it, oil company profits are at least ·B percent higher than officially reponed. The groups said accounting methods used by che od compames, although legitimate, end up understating profits m .the companies' public reports. Ocher accounttng practices provide more realistic, and r1_1uch larger. profi~ figures, they said. The groups also srud od company acqutslttons of ocher companies. both in and out of energy production, show__they are nor using all of their available cash to develop ::tddltwnal oil ami gas. 

Hanson invents varied computerized sandwiches 
IWACl IT. Mass. (AP) -If you yearn for submarine ....mdwidws, but don' r like venturing into your local greasy '-PPllll, Robert Hanson rnav have something for you: . a •••rnputerized sandwich -measured, weighed and budt wrthnur rhe touch of human hands. Hanson is working on a prutotqw of a machine that he says will put together those lung sandwiches -called variously submarines or grinders, puor bovs or heros. And the gizmo will respo~d to such ga~o;t rorwmic subtleties as whether or not the dmer wants rna\·o or green peppers. 

Weather 
Variable cloudiness today, with a high in the upper 40s. Panlv rlouch and not so cool tonight, with low:-in the mid )()-.; Tlw high Friday will he near 60. 
12. ~-10:30 pm--FILM, "suicide or survival," sponsored by student committee for investigation of military and nuclear disarmament. LA FORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE 
.3:.10 pm--LECTURE. ' Ii,c· stucly of greek at the carolingian court," prof. eclouard jeauneau, pontifical inst. of medieval studies. toronto. READING ROOM. MEDIEVAL INST. 
3:.~0 pm--SEMINAR, "computational boundary layer analvsis wirh applications to the space shuttle,'' prof. john herrin. u. of texas, 356 FITZPATRICK HALL OF ENGR. 
4:10 prn--COLLOQUIUM, "some work on the borderline of log it & tol1ology." prof. robert vaught, u. of caltf., berkeley, -.;ponsore·c bv math dept.. 226 CCMB 
') 6: 10 pm--COLLECTION, clemson tickets for underpriv­ileged chilclren, DINING HALLS 
') pm--TRA VELOGUE. spono;;ored by nd microbiology club, Ft\ClJI.TY DINING ROOM. SOUTH DINING HALL 
'i-(dO pm--SIGN-UP, camhodian dinner fast, DINING H.-\l.LS 
<1 pm--\11-:ETJN(i. crime prevenrion. sponsored by o-c loum il. NORTII EAST NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER. ND r\i\D SOliTH BEf\:D AVE. 
fl: )0 pm--\11-.F·IIl':G. leadership trammg class. BULLA 'iff(]) 
~.C). II prn--I·ILM. "paper moon," ENG.R. AUD 
-'(I p~n--I.FCTURE, "a di~-Lussion ,of nuclear architecture-­pan 1 k1·11 rnccandless. Af{CH. AL,D. 
H prn--I.H lJTURE. ''dernocr~tic theory: an obsol<;te erll<'rtainmc·nr:>" prof. rolf-dteter narr, u. of berlm, ..,pons11n·d hv depr. of government, 117 HAGGAR HALL 
ND  Day  Editor:  Patsy  
Campbell  
SMC  Day  EDitor:  Peggy  
Schneeman  

H prn--l.ECTURE. "._cience & religion: the ~osmic wr11w•ti1H1," rev. sranley jaki, seton hall u., GALVIN AUD. 
H pm--FACULTY RECITAL. jeffrey noonan & joyce st hl'manske. I.ITTLE THEA TRE-SMC 
H pm--HASKETBALL. nd vs soviet team, ACC 
8 pm--l.ECTURE, "law & society in modern china," prof. philip west, u. of bloomington, LIB. LOUNGE 
'), 10 pm--PREVIEW. student player's production--"stop the world." NAZZ 
') pm--1\lF:ETING, ohio farmworkers support committee, LA FOf{TUNE BALLROOM 

' 
-

Thursday, November 15, 1979-page 2 

NASA proposes space mission to Halley's and Tempe12comets 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The United States is proposing an international space mtssion that would send a spacecraft to Halley's comet and then chase another one across the sky. 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration said Monday the four-year mission to the comets Halley and Tempel 2 would return the first closeup pictures of these daz­zling bodies and significantly increase man's knowledge of the phenomena. 
Although the project has not yet been approved by Con­gress, the space agency aske~:l scientists to propose expen­ments so more detailed plan-
Prof. Narr to speak atJ Haggar 
Professor Wolf-Dieter Narr of the Free University of Berlin will speak on "Democratic Theory: An Obsolete En-ter­tainment?" tonight at 8 in Room 11 7 of Haggar Hall. Narr is the author or editor of such books as Theory and Sy:,tem: Introduction to Modern Political Theory, Pluralist Society,. Theory of Democracy (with F. Naschold), Welfare State and Mass Loyalty (with C. Offe), and Politics andEconomy. The Department ofGovernment and International Studies invites all faculty and students to attend. 
f-.-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Margaret 
Kruse · Asst. !'fight Editor: Deirdre Murphy 
Copy Editor: ) ohn Ferroli, Kathy Casey. Layout Staff: Kathy Vick, Danny Tarullo News Editor: Mark Rust Editorial Layout: Colleen Sloan 
Features Layout: Chris Slatt Sports Layout: Beth 
Huffm~1 
Sports Copy Editor: Michael Ortman, Kate Huffman Typists: Tina Terlaak, Bill Swift, Kim Convey Deirdre 
Murp~y 
EMT: Marty Pippins and Mike Galvin ProofReader: Bruce Oakley 
Ad Design:)oe Murphy Photographer: Tom) ackman Guest Appearances: Ron Szot, but not Paula Shea 
The Observer [USPS 581 920] is published Monday through friday II· cept during exam and vxatlon periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Da1111 and Saint Mary's CDIIIgl. Subscriptillla may Ill purchased IDr $211 per yur 1111 per sronattrl from The Observer. 1».0. 1111 
II. Netrt Dallll, Indiana 4&156. s-.d class "=X• paid, Notrt Da1111, In­
diana . 
The Observer is 1 fnlllllllr ff till Associated Pms. All ~ rights 1rt rtllrnd. 
ning could begin. would swing off to rendezvous 
The spacecraft would be with Tempel 2, a smaller comet launched by the space shuttle in that orbits the sun every 5. 2 July 1985 to coincide with the years. long-anticipated return of The spacecraft would close in Halley's Comet, last seen by on Tempel 2 a couple of .years observers on Earth in 1910. later and could be brought to 
Halley's is the most famous within 30 miles of its nucleus. comet, a cold collection of ice, If all goes well, the probe would gases and dust which goes stay with the comet for a year or around the sun abouj once more, obtaining detailed pic­every 75 years. As it approach-tures and measurements on a es the sun, it heats up and trails journey around the sun. a tail ofdnst and gas millions of NASA has asked the European miles long. Space Agency, a consortium of 
The mission calls for the craft II nations, to build the small to fly by Halley in November probe that would spin off to 1985 and launch an instrument-Halley's Comet. carrying probe to the head of NASA estimated the cost of the comet. This vehicle would the mission at $350 million to sample comet material and $450 million, depending on the make closeup pictures as it experiments chosen. If ESA passed within 930 miles of the decides to join the project, it dense nucleus in the head. would pay about 20 percent of 
After passing within 81 ,000 the mission cost in building the miles of Halley, the ma!n craft Halley probe, Herman said. 

~ 

audio lpcclall1lt1ulac. and Electro·Voice Loudspeakers 

Preseets: 

Nautilus Records 112 Speed Master Pressing Of HEART'S "Dreamboat 

-Annie" 

401 N. Michigan St.,T~~~;i'~0~)1 ~1 Ze~r~· 
Voice loudspeakers with
South Bend, IN. 
special EV sub-woofers. 

BURN'S RENT-ALLS 2 Cu. IT. Refrig. $55 per year new shipments of refrigerators have just arrived also TV's Steamex Carpet Oeaner 10% off with student ID LARGE BBQ-GRILLS AUTO TOOLS 
FLOOR CARE EQUipMENT 332 W. MISHAWAKA ~59-2833 
--~ ~-~-----~--­
The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1979-page 3 

GOP presidential candidates attaclc Carter's foreign policy 
(AP) -Republicans Ronald Reagan and John Connally assailed President Carter's handling of U.S. -Soviet relations yesterday, but short ofextending that criticism to Carter's performance in the Iranian crisis. 
In campaigning over­shadowed by the siege of the 
U.S. embassy in Iran, the two GOP presidential contenders asserted that the Carter admini­stration's foreign policy is one of appeasemem toward the Russians. 
At a Washington news conference, Reagan accused rhe president of making too many concessions to Moscow. but did not elaborate. 
"The Soviet Union is an expanswnist power and it has not retreated one inch from its Marxist dream" of spreading communism throughout the world, Reagan said. "And we should never forget it." · 
In declaring his candidacy Tuesday night, Reagan lcalled for increased defense spending. 
The 68-year-old former Cali­fornia governor said he supports Carter's efforts to free American hostages held in Tehran. But Reagan alsp said the administration dido' t do ~nough to keep the Shah of Iran m power. 
''There was a time when this revolution could have been halted,'' Reagan said at the outset of a five-day, 12-city campaign swing through most of the early primary states. 
Without mentionil!g the name of any Iranian leader, the former California governor said, ''There were certain 
leaders  that  could  have  been  
separated  from  thc>ir  
followers.''  He  did  not  
elaborate.  
Connally,  campaigning  in  

South Carolina, said that if elected, he will seek to reverse what has become the nation's policy of "appeasement." Connally told a North Charleston, S.C., town hall audience that the United States should build up its military arsenal with both nuclear and conventi5nal weapons: 
"We're going to have to start looking after the interests of our own people, whatever the cost,'' said the onetime Demo­crat, a former Texas governor and treasury secretary. 
"I am embarassed and angered," Connally said. "But I don't think I ought to say too much because I don't know all 
Carter bypasses use of wheat embargo against Iran 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. farmers sell more than $450 million in food and animal feed to Iran each year -a bargaining point the Carter administration has not used in efforts to obtain freedom for Americans held hostage in Tehran. 
"A real embargo would hurt us as much as them," a high-ranking U.S. official said yesterday. "And it could jeopardize world feeling, which so far bas been on our side in the Iran confrontation." 
The official, who asked not to be identified,_ declined to say whether. Prestdet;t Carter wa_s constdenng banrung U.S. agn-
U.S. Embassy earlier this month. 
U.S.Agriculture Department officials say Iran has hf'en dependent on U.S. trade for food and for feed for its domestic paul­try industry. In recent years, U.S. products have con­stituted more than 25 percent of all Iranian agricultural imports. 
Any decisiOn by the United States to block trade with Iran would cut U.S. income, but not by great quantities. U.S. exports of $3.68 billion to Iran in 1978 represented about 2.6 percent of the nation's total $143.6 billion export trade. 
cultural exports to Iran,., ~nd.. .Joverall, U.S. exports to Iran 
Tr~asury ?ecretary G. Wuham Mtller Sald tracl~ was. rot a target of ~arter s deoswn to freez.e !raman. government as­s;,ts 10 the Umted States.. . 
The purpose of the acuon ts
•, M'll ld 

not to block trade, ,~ er to a news conference. We are 
putting no export limits as 
h , , 

sue .
The Agriculture Department's general sales manager, Kelly Harrison said Iran probably would b~ able to handle tis trade pruchases with lettersit_s~ credit, possibly drawn op Eu­ropean banks. 
An end to trade relations with Iran has been urged by several Republican congressmeq, in-eluding Rep. George Hansen of Idaho and Rep. Bob Livingston of Louisiana, after more than 60 Americans were captured in the fell after the January revolu­tion, from $2.8 billion in the first eight months of 1978 to $883.3 million in the same period this year accordin to 
C ' D g
recent ommerce epartment
figures. 
But food exports have gone 
up. The Agnculture Depart-
I . d I 
ment say~ ra~ tmportf near y $4?0 mdlwn. 10 U.S. ood and ammal feed 10 the year endmg Sept. 3.0, up 8 percent from the precedmg year. 
Food e,xports to Iran repre­se~ted auout ,1. 5 percet;t of the United States total agncultural exports last year. 
One-third of th~ 1979 sales to Iran mvolved nee, a quarter was whea.t and a fifth was soybean 01!, used by the Ira­nians in cooking. 
the details and maneuvering that is going on· to release the hostages. Once they are free, then I'm going to have a lot to say about it." 
Former CIA Director George Bush, a Republican presidential aspirant, issued a statement in Washington applauding Carter· s decision to freeze Iranian government assets. 
While the Republicans continued to seek grass-roots support among the people and within the GOP, Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy, D-Mass., campaigned in Minnesota ­home state of Vice President Walter F. Mondale-in an effort to undercut support for a Carter -Mondale ticket next year. 
OC students pick up phone directories 
Off-Campus and graduate students (except those living in O'Hara-Grace) can pick up their phone books in the Student Government offices any day this week (please bring J.D.'s). All students are reminded that this is the only time during the school year that Notre Dame 
phone directories are available. 
Once the present supply has 
been exhausted, there will be 
no phone directories available 
until next August. 

Students collect pledges for Cambodia 
Students Concerned for Cambodia will be wllecting signatures for a lunch and/or dinner fast today in both Notre Dame· dining halls at dinner. The fast will raise funds to be stnt to Catholic Relief Services administering aid to Cambodian refugee camps. 
The 

....... the NAZZ presents 
Thurs 15th A Preview of the Student Players Production of STOP THE WORLD (9-10) 
Jerry Gaff & Rick Walters (10-12) 
fri 16th Lafortune lunchtime Concert (11:45-1) Gene Barbenera
.__..__.-.,  ,  
Jeannie Ritter  Mike Daly (9-1)  
Sat 17th  (9-1)  

Mickev Mallardi Gene Barbener_a 
and the debut of Jim Greselbradt et al. 
Admission free in the basement.of Lafortune sponsored by NDSU Social Comm 1 
Town. &Country Liquors 
wants your.business thats why we offer 



10% DISCOUNT 
on ALL wine, liquor & beer for all ND & SMC students & faculty PLUS 
Gordons Vodka.......................... 1/5 $3.69 Kentucky Tavern Whiskey.~........ Qt. $4.99 Dimitri Vodka .......................... 1/2 Gal. $7.89 Rum.. ................................ 1/5 $4.99 Schenley's Whiskey..... Ot. $4.99 Tequila ...... ..... ........ . ...... 1/5 $4.99 Fox Deluxe ...................... Case $3.99 Pabst ........................... Case $5.69 Stroh's . . . . . .. . . . . . .. ... . . . . . . ........... Case $5.99 Old Milwaukee.. . ............... Case of Ots. $5.90 

OPEN 9:00 ~ -midnight 
259-3262 1571 12th St., Mishawaka 259-8364 River Park, 2411 Mishawaka Ave. 289-3868 Southland, 4411 Ironwood 
Town and Country Plaza 
291-7580 


Who??? 




Tennessee Was 


GO TIGERS 


'· 
~.­
,,. 

,The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1979-page 4 
"As soon as they get to the top, they've made their point . .. then they're going to drink it." 
i 


Insty 
needprinting ina hurry? 100 -11 x 17 posters only $10.00 203 N. Main South Bend 289~6977 th~ wiz of theprintingbiz! 
~-.... ..... 
. .1\ 
734·1431 '
L ; 'i 129 NORTH MtCHtGAN STREET 
•. -::; ~ I BlOCK SOOTH OF THE MORRIS CIVIC AUOI TORIUM 
• } -. . ON qiYER BENO PLAZA DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEN£"1
~I
\..<(~:·:~. 


I 

Streamwlnner will be back with the1r tremendously exciting jazz-rock fusion that keep V B ·s audiences attentive all night. This talented and creative bunch play the1r own compositions as well as those by Panty, Vanelll, Hancock and Corea. This Is easily one ol the finest live performances you'll see at Vegetable Buddies. Excellent percussion work highlights their act This is a tight, tight 
group 
TH UR, FRI, & SaT! November 15,16,&17 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN © 1978 

Sympathetic to PLO terrorism 
. Israel expels Arab m.ayor 
TELAVIV--Israel (AP)-The Israeli government reaffirmed its decision to expel the Arab mayor of Nablus, who au.thor­ities claim is sympathetic to PLO terrorism. The Cabinet decision brought a rash of resignations from ~rab of­ficials in the occup1ed West Bank and Gaza Strip. . 
By the end of the day, a spokesman for the West. Bank military government sa1d, all the elected officials of the West Bank's 25 towns had resigned, 

Kenney and Lucey lead discussion 
Dr. Paul Kenney and Dr. John Lucey will present a movie and di~cussion entitled ''No Act of God" on Monday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The Undergraduate Student Council for the College of Science will sponsor the presen­LJtion. Admission, is free. 
..

3'~ 
For the real beer lover. 
and the mayors and town councilmen of Gaza City and Khan Yunis in the Gaza Strip had followed suit to express solidarity with the jailed Bassam Shakaa. 
Although the occupied ter­ritories remained generally calm, police in Nablus discov­ered a time bomb and Israeli troops exploded it without prob­lem, officials said. 
Some youths threw rocks at Israeli cars in Nablus, where shops were closed for the fourth straight day in sympathy with the mayor, jailed Sunday with­out explanation. 
Shakaa's case was considered at the highest level of Prime Minister Menachem Begin's government because of worries of violent protests in the West Bank if the Supreme Court denies Shakaa's · pending appeal and he is expelled. 
Bur the''governmeriP 'also was concerned that it would appear weak if it rescinded its dec1sion to banish the firebrand mayor. 
"It was decided to leave as is the decision regarding the pro­cedures for the expulsion of Bassam Shakaa," Be~in's aide, Ephraim Poran, sa1d after 

a meeting in Jerusalem of the Cabinet ministerial defense committee. 
In Cairo, Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil expressed con­cern the Shakaa case would increase tension in the occuJ?ied territories during negotiations on Palestinian autonomy. 
"Israel pledged at Camp David to take measures to restore confidence between it and the Palestinians living in the West Bank and Gaza, bur instead it is raking provocative actions that absolutely do not lead to that,'' Khalil said after a Cabinet meeting. 
Egyptian negotiators met with Israeli and American of­ficials in Tel Aviv for a working session on the autonomy plan for the West Bank and Gaza. Egyptian President Anwar Sadat was quoted as saying Tuesday that expected the au­tonomy question to be solved within three months. 
In Beirut, a statement issued by the Palestine Liberation Organization exhorted West Bank Palestinians to "escalate struggle aginst the Israeli en­emy·,'' and called on the mayors to act collectively. 
The case against Shakaa de­veloped last week after the mayor told an Israeli gen~!.aJ. he understood the reasons for Palestinian terror raids in Israel, including the March 1978 coastal road massacre in which 34 Israelis were killed. Many Israelis were enraged at Shakaa's remarks, but he said the government twisted his words and he denied making pro-terrorist remarks. 

Off campus discusses 
•


securtty 

The Off-campus Council ':'ill sponsor a cnme preventiOn meeting at the North East Neighborhood Center on the corner of Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues today at 6 
p.m. Representatives of the police department will discuss protecting off-campus homes and apartments. 


Logan Center needs student tickets 

Students, faculty, or staff who wish to donat~ their football tickets so that children from Logan Center and Big Brother I Big Sisters may attend the Clemson game may drop them off during dinner all this week at the dinmg hall~. Off-campus students who w1sh to donate their rickets can drop them off at Volunteer Services in LaFor­tune. 

\ ,.. 

-------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------~~--­
The Ob~~erver Thursday, November 15, 1979 -page 5 
Dean of Engineering 
Hogan plans resignation 
Joseph C. Hogan, who became the University of Notre Dame's seventh dean of engineering in 1967, will resign in the summer jof 1981, Professor Timothy O'Meara, provost, announced yesterday. 
Hogan toild his f*ulty that the most importadt of his priorities--new facilities for the college had been accomplished with the dedication last month of the $8.3 million Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, which he called "a milestone in the history of engineering at Notre 1Dame.'' 
"In the undergraduate area, the development of the core curriculum has hadi a majQr impact," he continued. "We now have an excellent under­gqlduate enrollment base compared to the dangerously low enrollments in the early 1970s. Research activities have increased from $500,000 in 1967 to more than $2 milli0n in new grants in fiscal 19791 During this period we have strengthef!ed the faculty and provided new lead¢rship in each department chairmanship. 
The visibility of the college in the industrial world has also grearly increased. I now believe it is time for ,a change for both me and the cpllege." 
Soon after he became deal). at Notre Dame, Hogan renrgantzed the college curriculum to tncrease efficienc\ and liminate duplication of effort. Students now progre:-.s from general "rore" <.ourses t highly specialized departmental courses. 
!-logan began his reiJUre with 

about 840 engineering majors. The number began fall~g the next year and reached a low of about 690 in 1972 before beginning to climb again. Today, 1,.143 engineering students plus some 440 freshmen who intend to choose an engineering major make up about 22 percent of Notre Dame's total undergraduate population of 6,800. In addition, 142 students are enrolled in advanced degree programs. The college's 86 faculty members are distributed among six depart­ments: aerospace and mechanical, chemical, civil, electrical, and metallurgical engineering, and architecture. 
Hogan has encouraged efforts to increase the numbers of women and minority students in engineering, and during his tenure the college has developed several programs whose target groups range from junior high school to postbaccalaureate students. The dean was instrumental in founding the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering in 1976, and he serves as president and chariman of the Board of Directors of the organization, whose central office is located at Notre Dame. 
"It is my hope that Dean 
Hogan will remain on the 
faculty and that he will contmue 
to be otservice to the College of 
Engineering and the Univer­
sity," 0 ·Meara said in a letter 
to Engineering faculty. "He 
has been a tough and dynamtc 
leader, one who has 
HealtfL Department verifies cleanliness of SMC pool 

/ 
Iron deposits along the Regina pool's walls an~ bottom have deterred many Saint Mary's srudents from swim­ming this week. "These depos­its are re..;ponsible for giving rhe water an unattractive green turbidity,'· according tq George Peterson, power plant director. 
Peterson explained that iron pipes in the pool's ci~culation system were exposed to air while the pool was repainted over October break. . When maintenance refilled the pool, a cloud of iron dust was released into the water. Maiqtenance used chlorine to treat the water, but apparently, Peterson said, the _pool was "ove~trea~ed, caustng a reactiOn wtrh :the tron that resulted in the deposits along the walls." 
1 
Maintenance assured swimmers that the water is not harmful. "It's just fine for swimming. Pool water samples 
Art Gallery schedules Vogl reception 
I 
There will be a recepnon for Associate P.-ofessor ofAtts Don Vogl in the Art Gall~ry on Sunday from 2 to 5 p.m. Vogl' s exhibition i!' entitled ''A Sense of Phice,'' and will be on display umi: Dec. :'>L are sent to St. Joseph County's Health Dept. every two weeks. So far, we've never had a bad report." 

In response to charges of an inadequate pool filtering system, Peterson said that filters were not responsible for the mishap. "Saint Mary'-s filtering system is one of the finest on the market," he said. Although the school's nuns own the pool, the college is respon­sible for maintaining the clean­liness and sanitation of the water. 
Local ski areas 

offer passes 
The St. Joseph County Parks and Recreation Department has season passes for downhill skiing and special pre-season discounts are in effect until tomorrow. Season passes are available for children (under 12), adults and families. Cross country trail season passes are 
also  available  for  the  county  
parks.  Individual  passes  are  
$7.50  and  family  passes  are  

$20.00. Applications and park information are available at the park offices (Bendix Woods and St. Patrick's County Parks), all local ski shops or by calling 654-3155. 
accomplished essentially all he set out to do and now believes the time has come for new blood in the leadership of the college and new challenges for himself.'' 
Hogan said the new 'Fitz­patrick Hall dramatically reaffirms the University's commitment to engineering education and research. Nearly twice as large as the contiguous Cushing Hall of Engineering, built in 1933, the new five-level, 155,000-square-foot building brings most pf the college's faciltties together under one roof for the first time in many years. 
0' Meara said a search committee for a new dean would be appointed and begin its work next semester. 
Hogan came to Notre Dame from the University of Missouri, where he taught electrical engineering for 15 years before becoming its engineering dean in 1961. The 57-year-old native of St. Louis, Mo., received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Washington University in 1945, a master's degree from the University of Missouri in 1949, and a doctorate from the Univf'rsity of Wisconsin m 1953. 
--------------------------,

I BRIDGETS I 
1 ·presents a 1 I WAKE UP THE DEAD PARTY I 

I TONIGHT! I 
lwith the Manhattan Project Blues Band 1 I featuring Kari Meyer &Chip Miceli I 
I I
L 25¢ DRAFTS from 9:30-10:30 I 
ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS. STU·DENTS 
If your house or apartment has been ripped-off and you don't want to let it happen again or if you haven't been ripped-off and you v.-·:u'1 !ike to kee.p it that way, pl~ase attend a spen.1 1 roleetmg dealmg wnh thts senous problem. 
lf'ht>n: Thursday, Nov. I )th. 6:00pm 
Where: North ~ast Neighborhood Associati1>n.,fire House (rornn nt N.D. and South Bend Avenues) in the urstair-; meeting !(I()ITJ. 
Housing Administrators and the cops will 
be there. We got to tell them about the 
current 0 -C crime situation because it 
has got to stop! 

-
----~----­

The Observer Thu~sday, November 15, 1979 ~page 6 
Vote favors morticians 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House voted Wednesday to protect the funeral industry from federal regulation, a step some said invites various ''spe­cial interests'' to lobby against regulations they dislike. 
The House adopted, 223-147, an amendment b> Rep. Marty Russo, D-IlL, to prohibit the Federal Trade Commission from promulgating the funeral regulation it has spent four ~ears considering. 
The amendment wa-s attached to an FTC: authorization bill that will come to a final vote later. The Senate has not acted on any stH.:h amendment. 
"The American people want less intervention in their daily lives and less of a federal burden on the backs of small bustness, which most of the funeral industry is," Russo said. 
He also criticized the FTC f, •r anti-industry bias and question­ed procedures used by the agency. 
The proposed FTC regulation, which is awaiting final action by the commission, would require funeral homes to give out their prices over the telephone when asked. It also would make illegal certain practices deemed to be unfair, such as requiring caskets for cremation. 
The v0te was denounced by consumer groups, which are opposing a tide in Cong1ess running against the FTC. The Agency has raised the ire of vanous industries because ofits 
protection 


Gelwwf ltWefUcg 6ott off W01thetl3 Swt. Kov.. IS 4:00 fJttt .£a'Flvthuce 
ON THURSDAY 
NOVEMBER15'" 
NOIFS,



ANDS 
OR 
... 

Th1s space contnbuted by the publisher 

Seventeen graduate and undergraduate women"met in the library lounge yesterday to dtscuss their status as women at Notre Dame. See story on page 11. [photo b.Y Tom Jackman) 
PLO attempts to win support inWest; seeks alternative to bloodletting 
While Yasser Arafat prepares 
a new generation of potential 
martyrs in the guerrilla war 
as.ainst Israel, his Palestine 
Ltberation Organization is go­
ing all out to polish its image 
and win support in the West. 
The ultimate aim of this policy 
may be to seek a political 
alternative to the incessant 
bloodle~ting. . 
Araf~t s offer to tntercede for Am~ncan ho~tage~ ~eld by Irantan revolu.uonanes 1n .the U. 
S. Embass¥ m. Teh~an IS ?ne ~ore step. m his .bn~ge-butld­mg campa1gn to wm fn;nds an~ ~ebtors among Israel s trad1­twnal supporters.
In recent months, the PLO has forged links in Western Europe and gained some public rela­tions mileage in the United States; stronghold of Israel's international support. 
Recent history has demon­strated, however, that such bridges .qtn collapse overnighr, in the wake of a Palestiotan terrorist strike. Alternating his roles between guerrilla leader and international mediator has been the hallmark of Arafat's mercurial leadership and the key to his own survival within the diverse Palestinian move· meor. 
FLASH B[LLETIN! 
Presenting Mr. Bob 
Mr. Bob brings his bold eastem talents to the Queens Castle offering a "step ahead of the crowd styling. Proven in competition, let Mr. Bob present a new you, the change will do you good. 
by appointlltDt ;2n.JH1 or 272-0312 

A pattern is evident: When cause they took htm nowhere, Arafat foresees clear rewards his associates said at the time. on the political front, he dons Israel's subsequent invasion of his statesman's cap, as he is Lebanon, which caused fewer doing now. When political Palestinian losses than many moves appear doomed, he expected, bolstered Arafat's adopts the terror-war option, stock in the Arab c-ommunity often because the more mtlitant and insJ?ired new confidence of those around him are pres-among h1s 12,000-man guerrilla suring him. forces. 
The 49-year-old PLO chief . But Israe~'s step_ped-up p~n­often co.~llained a~ter t~e Leb-1shment ra1ds .agamst guernlla an·ese CIVI war, which diverted strongl~olds this year have tak­and depleted his forces for en .thetr toll, and Arafat. ~as nearly two years, that the agam turned to the poltttcal 1975-76 moratorium on cross-stage. . border raids against Israel gain-In. the. Uotted States, the ed nothing for his movement in restgnatton of U. N. Amb.as­the international arena. s~dor Andre':' Young followt~g
hts unauthonzed contacts w1th 
When the PLO saw no gain for the PLO touched off a demand it in Egyptian President Anwar among many of Young's fellow Sadat's peace initiative with blacks for U. S. recognition of Israel, Arafat threw in the the organization, which regards diplomatic towel, assumed a itself as a liberation movement. lead in the Arab hard-line Arafat warmly greeted a dele­opposition and unleashed a gation of black American lead­bloody raid against the Israelis ers in Beirut last month and has on the Tel Aviv-Haifa highway'l been promoting an overall Arab 
in early 1978.  alliance with them in  an  effort  
He  chose  then  to  risk  his  to change U. S.  policy toward  
flimsy  Western  bridges  be- the Arab cause.  

For Governor race 

Hillenbrand declares 
byJohn Carrol "I do not need this job," said 
Associated Press Writer Hillenbrand, who has never run 
for elective office. "But I want 
) ohn A Hillenbrand got his to do this job. I love Indiana gubernatorial campaign off the and I am seeking the opportu­ground today -literally -with a nity to serve in return for that flying tour of Indiana, sE~ead­Indiana has made possible for ing the news that he is otilcially me." a candidate for the 1980 Demo­In his announcement speech, cratic nomination. Hillenbrand declared that eco­
After more than a year of nomic development would be testing the political waters, the hallmark of his administra­Hillenbrand formally declared tion. his candidacy during a Demo­"We cannot let national eco­cratic rally in Indianapolis on nomic conditions continue to Wednesday. He planned simi­dictate the number of jobs that lar announcements over a two­we have, "he said. "And it is day swing through nine Hoosier not enough to want to bring cities and Louisville. those jobs r0 Indiana. We must 
Today's itinerary called for the have work~n~ programs that Batesville businessman to visit attract rhos~ Jobs.'' Anderson, Muncie, Kokomo, F<>rt Wayne, South Bend and "We need to have a respon­Highland. He'll wind up the sive and <cspon.,ible Public trip on Friday, traveling to Service (-.:nmissivn. With Lafayette, Terre Haute, Loui!>­) ohn Hillenbrand, .•:e will," he ville and Evansville. saicl 
~ ~-----~~ -~ ------~-------­
--~----~ ------~---~~----------~-------------­
Thursday, Novemper 15, 1979-page 7 








Editorials 
The last idealist 
Colman McCarthy 
A ......,L......J. ; stUdents :Americans .·public. It is !live in.tbis ITT•~ar .,,. ~-of the ·dhce ; world. h 
~.ima .. ,
... gin.~b.·.le

r handflil of.. stti•dents~f}o' ~ blackmail us into 
~-· 1 think it <.•J$ .. . · 
~ suril~thing mus;J be 
·,state of the nation, 
:fin(! <1 t$:;r, eht~ap · 
' these swdents nor 
; beneficial, would de ,tv have. his stap~ie

..... 
~-nati1m.~h · · · My phtri is, and l ':many hiJUf~ ~han· ma · 'the ·on>Je(~tm~s 
~rhreac(~i
:~tlp[mrr it};·. · 
·.. Sewnd, !lmlve thi: 
iatftnit we .amfmg the A:tiuntry). but · · i tuition in oil, · 



P.O.BoxQ 
Participation 
urged 
~ 

To the Student Body: 
The Stud.:'nts Concerned For Cambodia are prdently organizing and implementing numerous activities. In addi­tion to this, all members of the University community will be 
1

asked to participate in a Cambodian Response tpnight­and tomorrow . The re-Sponse will consist of a University-wide fund raising drive beginning Thursday night and continuing Friday until 5:00pm. 
Hall leaders will Jolicit donations in a door to door campaign at this time, and off-campus students will be able to donate at the off-campus lounge in LaFortune. As with the United Way Campaig~, the commitment by , ach student to rake a step towards ending suffering will be considered more important than the actual sum of money donated. 
A special Mass for Cambodia will be offered Friday at 5:00 pm in Sacred Heart Church, and a day of fasting will be held on Monday. 
Student Government urges all students to participate in the 
response in  the hope that the·  
impending  horror  can  be  
averted.  

The Notre Dame Student Government 

Senior Death March 
Dear Editor: 

Tomorrow afternoon another social phenomenon at Notre Dame will occur. The Senior Class will be meeting at 1:30 pm on Green Field to begin an en masse trek to the local bars. Traditionally known as Senior Death March, this even has of late caused problems in the neighhorhoods off campus. The major problems concern left-over garbage, public uYinarion, and childrefiJcoming home from -,chool. 
!n response to the first problem, the Senior Class 'has reque~ted and received donations from the local bars for the-purpose ,of hiring an effective ·neighborhood clean­up crew. 
As for the second problem, there is an obvious shortage of~ bathroom facilities, but that is no reason to unnate on a neighboring lawn. Please stay in the parking lots and be as discreet as possible. 
Thirdly, please watch out for children coming home from school. Be courteous and help them through the crowd. 
The Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Senior Class officers urge everyone to respect the neighborhood and the bars. In past years, the bars have received considerable damage, 
NOTRE DAME, Ind.--For a few perilous moments last month the federal government was left dangling without the services of Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. When his work on the President's Commission on the Holocolust ended, a full 48 hours passed before he was appointed to head the Commis­sion on Immigration and Refu­gee Policy. 
The combats of public affairs have engaged Hesburgh since 
Dwight  Eisenhower  called  on  
him  in  195 7 f0r  help  in  civil  
rights.  One of these years we  

wtll need a commission merely to pull together all the commis­sion work that this intelligent, moral and liberal citizen has been involved in. 
For more than 25 years, during which almost as a pas­rime he turned Notre Dame into one of the world's vibrant universities, Hesburgh has maintained a bigness of vision about what the country ought to be doing with its goals and talents. 
In my own mind, he is one of the few idealists we have who isn't being ground down by the times. Consistency of fervor can be the hardest ofall virtues, because when others give up or burn out the one who msists on pushing ahead is dismissible as going "overboard." 
Hesburgh· s recent remark a­bout getting food into Cam­bodia at first seemed like the excited talk of a zealot: ''I'm perfectly willing to ride the lead truck and get shot at in the process, rather than sit back and have it on my conscience that I did nothing to stop a second Holocaust.'' 
But the comment--if only we had a President who would speak with such spine--is a mix of hope and fire that marks much of Hesburgh's thinking. In a long and stimulating conversation the other after­noon, he confessed to being saddened by what he sees as "America's lost ideal of a common good." We lack a total view of things,'' he said, and that creates a difficulty in itself, well apart from the crises and problems that keep coming on. 
Appointive work, which is Hesburgh 's specialty, creates wear and tear on the ego because much· of it is anony­mous. Elective work, which attracts· both the chest­thumpers seeking higher and 
and the destructive students were held financially responsible. 
We would also like to point out that donations for the Cambodia Responst': will be taken by the Senior Class during the Death March. We totally support this cause and would like to make a contri­bution from the class. Thank you and hav<: a good time. 
Nick Schneeman Senior Class President 
higher office and many in the media who think all of the froth means something, has iittle appeal for Hesburgh. It helps that by nature he is unobtru­sive. He has a new book out-­
' The He_sburgh Pipers: Higher Values in Higher Education-­--but, staymg clear of any' hint of self-promotion, he didn't allude to it once in our conversation. In Washington, Hesburgh has a reputation among the politicians, or at least the ones who have an ideal or two left, as a man the cour.try can rely on w take on the hard ones: civil rights, Vietnam amnesty, the volunteer army, global hunger, human rights. Every Presidem since Eisenhower has•gone to him for help. Hesburgh 's work on commis­sions, foundations, and councils is a ministry that can easily create the illusion that ''some­thing is being done." Fake progress suits the establish­ment and its guardians. Bur in going among the Iauer, Hesburgh has had success be­cause he has shrewdly judged just how hard to pressure for what is humane and fair. Figuring it out, while still being effective, demands mother wit. Go too far and you become the predictable radical; lay back, and you are the kept liberal of the powerful. Hesburgh, the idealist, is taken seriously because he has had a base at Notre Dame. He runs something. As Notre Dame's longtime president-­his name is on the diploma of four out of five of the univer­sity's living graduates--he has recruited some of the country's most gifted teachers. Academia's backbiting has put some teethmarks in Hesburgh's hide. The Observer, the well-edited cam­pus daily, carried an article recently that complained about Hesburgh' s being off in Vienna for a UN conference when he ­should have been on hand to greet the freshmen and their parents during orientation week. Days later, though, a student wrote back to counter that it was "foolish to request that Fr. Hesburgh neglect the millions of poor and hungry in ~he world in order to please a handful of whire, upper middle clas's well-fed parents." A year ago in a poll in tht 
U.S. News and World Report, 
Hesburgh was ranked second in influence in religion and third in American education. Friends say he could have been first in both had he a flair for center stage. But Hesburgh prefers the wings and the backstage, where much of the country's anonymous work gets done. Beside'>, with most others shoving tt. get om front, he has all the room that an expansive-thinking man could want. (c] 1979, The Washmgton Post Company 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Edztor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor.......... ... Mark Perry 
represent the opinton of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .. ~ .. Kathleen Connelly 
Box Q Notre Dame, TN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .......... ·: .. Doug Christian 
opinions and lerrers are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ..... ...Steve Odland newspaper publis.hcd by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .... ................Mark Rust Production Manager ..... .John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ....... ..Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through lettt·rs, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddy Controller ... ...............Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encour~ed. SMC News Editor........ Margie Brasstl Circulation Manager .... ..Greg Hedges 

Wn"tten by 

Christopher Slatt 
Graphics by 

Michael Sexton 
Cdilornia Preachin' on the burninf!, shore Cali/(Jrnia I'II be knorkin · on the f!,Oide:: duu1 
/.ike ,m anf!,el standin in a shaft oflz?,ht ltJsin up to paradise I know I'm f!,Or. "" shine. 
-Estimated Prophet 
[R. Weir!}. Barlow) 
The early 1%0· s on the San Franctsco pentnsula were years of musical as well as cultural change. out of which emerged MOTHEH MCCHEE'S UPTOWN JUG CHAM­PIONS in 1%4. The jug band was Jerry Garcia, Ron McKernan, Bob Weir, Bob Mathews (who latn formed Alembic, an electronic equipment de\'dopment finn which sustains the Grateful Dead ~ound system), John Dawson (Marma­duke. tht' Nt'w Riders of the Purple Sage), and, on occaston, David Parker on washboarrl. The jug band played the-coffee houses and bars of Pa-lo .'\Ito and the-peninsula, but it became trHreasingly appar('nt thai a jug band wasn't all liw1 ('Xtiting t<J lisl<'ll to. Pigpen (McKernan) had h<·,·n inv<>lved w11h .Janis Joplin· playing in s111all blues dub-., and earlier w1th Htll Kn·uumann in a n>ck hand call THE ZODIACS Under Pigpen'-., insislenlT, the jug band went eln tnc and changed dwir name to THF \X.' i\1\I.OCKS. Kreutnnann replaced Dawson and play<·d drums whil!-· C.rarcia offered the elntric bass l<l Phil l.esh. 
<r:trcia had nwt (.,..,j, tiv<· vcar.., earlir·r He had a lil<lrough'clas-.,tcal musical education, was .1 )<!II trumpt'tl'l', violtnist and radio enginee-r involved with cump<>stnl-' twelve-tone serial, el<'l'IT'IllliL· music AI c;ar. ia's request, Lesh lc;rrned to pia~ 1he b;h-, and two weeks later (his adeptness at rna-.;!ering the bass in two weeks is 1cs1ament 10 his tremendous musical talem) Tl IF W AIU.OCKS were ready to play some rock and roll. 
Lonf!, known for their live performances, the Grateful D~ad continue their tradition today. 
Jr was 196 5 and THE WARLOCKS had a line-up of: Garcia (guitar, vocals) Weir (rhythm gui1ar, vocals), Pigpen (keyboards), Lesh (bass, vocals), and Kreutzmann (drums). 
The band's rock and roll music began to take on less conventional forms the more they played the Trips Festivals with Ken Kesey and The Merry Pranksters. (These fesrivals are well documented in Tom Wolfe's book. Electn·c Koo/Aid Acid Test.) 
THE WARLOCKS changed their name to GRATEFUL DEAD in the spring of 1966 and moved from Palo Alto to the Haight-Ashbury would not just ltsren to music but would become part of a to~al experience; the band enjoyed creating their music and this enthusiasm would carry over into the crowd. The tremendous concert success seemed to give the Dead more confidence which led them back to the recording to the recording srudio in 1970. 
This was to be a very creative year for the band as they issued two albums, Workingmsn 's Dead and Amen.c.an Beauty. Garcia's love of country and bluegrass music is noticeable on the very well constructed Workingman's Dead album. The studio album emphasizes acoustic 
district of San Francisco. They lived through 1968, while, along with their associates, they organized and played the Golden Gate Park Free Conceqs with the San Francisco bands, 
JEFFERSON AIRPLANE, QUICKSILVER MESSENGE'R1 SERVICE, BIG BROTHER, COUNTRY J0E AND THE FISH, and many more. I 
The Dead built up quite a reputation as a 'live' band and consequently in 1967 they signed recording contract with Warner Brothers. Mickey Han joined the band on drums and they released their debut album The Grateful Dead. The band spent over six months of 1968 in the recording studio working on their follow-up album Anthem of the Sun and, although the album was not a commercial success (who reall cares?), it impressed many critics. The end 1968 neared as the band moved to · residences in Marin County, California and embarked upon a very busy recording career. 
Two albums followed in 1969 as the Dead were the first musicians to use the 16-track recorder producing Aoxomoxoa in the studio, and Live Dead from recent concercs. Live Dead was the band's first attempt at providing recordings 'creative' live versions of songs ltke St. Ste and Dark Star to their ever growing followers. 
Standing on a tower world at 
my command You just keep a turnin ­While I'm playin in the band If a man among you got no sin upon 
his hand Let him cast a stone at me for playin in the bar:d. 
Playin In the Band (Weir! Hunter/Hart) 
The GRATEFUL DEAD played at Woodstock,'---­
al the Fillmore East and West, and in 1970 bt:gan touring the nation with the NEW RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE, a country rock band whose members .•ad been involved with the San Francisco musical scene for some ) ears. ''An Evening with tiK· Gra1eful Dead,·· as tlw concerts were promoted, bt;l'ame innC'dihh-successful and rhe C.rrar<.;ful Dead 'family' look to the road. Thev visilt·d England, and tour­<"d Conaria wl(h RONNIE 
AND DLI.ANEY. IAN AND SYLVIA. JANIS JOPLIN. EHIC ANDER­·sol\. and TI1E BAND. 
Th(' GIL'\TFFUL DEAD conLert roots are imbed­in these years as the band would play marathon sets of two to five hours duration. Concert goers 
Left to guitar), 
gui1ar work and excellent vocal harmonies a Ia The band travelled to Eurc Crosby, Stills, and Nash. Robert Hunter, May of 1972, played and re Garcia's longtime friend, was by this time the countries, returned horne from Dead's full-time lyricist writing the lyrics for the ful tour and released a triple album while Garcia and Lesh composed the had wanted to call the album ' 
mus1c. 
The end of 1970 drew near as the 
released another studio gem, Amencan 
Beauty. Well written, tight tracks 
marked this album which contained 
the "hit" song 'Truckin'. Th~ ·was 
a very creative and yet difficult year 
for the Dead; 'Truckin' is a musical 
representation of the Dead's escapades 
and mishaps throughout the year. 
The San Francisco band with the 
great concert reputation had taken an 
imporcant step toward building a superb 
recording na!lle in 1970. 
The period of 1971 through 1974 was one of expansion and experiment for the group. Seeking to bring their music to a vastly gre'lter number of people, the band incorporated another of their innovations to the tours, the concept of high quality live stereo broadcasts. They still played the small intimate halls but now large concerts were possible with fine sound. 
The Dead's second live double album, The Grateful Dead (Skull and Roses), was released in 1971. Composed of free-flowing live tracks, this album is electrified with the very talented Garcia guitar work. This was the band's first gold album despite the objections to its release by Warner Bro~hers. 
Pigpen became seriously ill with a stomach and liver ailment by the end of '71 and Keith Godchaux joined the band to play keyboards. (God­chaux's wife, Donna, later joined the band as a female vocalist in 1973.) Keith had previously played with the DAVE MASON band. 
right, jerry Garcia [lead guitar), Bob Weir [rhythm Phd Lesh [bass guitar), Btl/ Kreutzmann [drums], 
Thousand Dollars a Day" but band minds and the album is simply


r--------------..;...;,.j 
1erry Garcia was bom in San r'ranciJ At the age of 15 he received his fin entered the army. Aftera bn'e( stay in· home and be.gan playing the San ! 
coffee-house circuit. Jerry has 
engineered some as well. 



The almost fqntasmagorical set Grateful Dead dunnp, the era ofthe famed Winter/am/concerts in 1974, which formed the focus for "The Grateful Dead Movie. ' The photo is taken from the actual footage ofthe motion picture. · 
Sitting, Brent Mydland [keyboards]. 
April and Pigpen accompanied the band on the '72 in seven European tour against his doctor's advice and on 
very success­Marl h 8, 1973; he died of a sromach hemorr­ve album. They hage. 'Europe on Five In 1073 and 1<)74 the Dead's growing ter changed their popularity faced them and their organization itled Europe '72. with the need to design and build a concert 
----------. system capable of high quality sound reproduction on a large scale, in order to play in arenas and stadiums. With the addition of digital-delay sound towers at open air concerts, the Dead were able 1to play to large summer audiences, I such as Watkins Glenn, with a record attendance of 600,000 people. wh~re they played with THE BAND and THE ALLMAN BROTHERS. The Dead grew to like Europe and 
in I\174 they took this system on a second European tour. 
On completion of their Warner Bro­thers recording contract in 1973, the Dead formed Grateful Dead Records and marketed their own records through mdependent distributors. In the course of three years of operations, Grateful Dead Records and its associate, Round Records, released three Grateful Dead albums, Wake of the Flood in 1973, Mars Hotel in 1974, and Blues for All.:zb in 1975. Nine albums were released by individuals within the Grateful D~d family, including two albums by· Robert Hunter and solo albums by Jerry Garcia and Bob Weir. Ar the end of 1974, the Dead decided on a rest from touring and the rigors of the road, Blues for Allah and the bulk of the band's solo albums were recorded in the course of the subsequent 15 months. During this period also, the Grateful Dead Concert Film was eqited by Garcia from footage shot at a five day concert at Winter­land in November of 1974. The film was later released by Round Reels (Grateful Dead film production com­
111 Egypt. The band had hoped to use one of the large interior chambers of the pyramid as a natural means of reverberation adding a certain mystic element to their already orphic Blues For Allah songs. The tech­nical difficulties ·encoun­tered with this natural reverb turned out ro be insunnoumable. even for l\amrod (Grateful Dead equipment manager), and thi:-; idea had to be scrapped once in Egypr. To a large extent tll(' success ot the pyramid concerts is due to Ramrod. Every piece of equipment needed to pre­sent the-show had to be catalogued and flown into the country, in­
cluding enough electrical generators to power 
the Dead's substantial amplifters and lighting 
'events like the Oakland Coliseum Benefit Against Environmental Cancer; .at favorite theatres like the Uptown in Chicago; and at the Madison Square Garden concerts where they were the 15th to receive the Garden's Gold Ticket Award for the sale of 100,000 tickets. Keith and Donna Godchaux left the group and the Dead were joined by keyboard player and vocalist Brent Mydland, who had previously played with the Bob Weir Band. Mydland has comributed to their current album, produced by Gary Lyons and due for release shortly on Arista Records.· • 
If my words d1d glow with the cold of 
sunshine And m)' tunes were playedon harps unstrung Would you hear my voice come 'through the 
music? Would you hold it near as it were your own? 
Ripple [Garcia I Hunter] 
Enough of biographies and the seemingly endles~ Grateful Dead trivia presented here. The Dead are so much more than facts and figureo.. impressive figures· at that, but they cannot truh represent the band and irs relationship with tts fans. The· 60's have come and gone and yet the Grateful Dead remain. t hl·tr culr of followers even stronger than before. Thi-. _magwal attraction between the band and their follow( rs drive~ Dead Heads to travel hou1 . t-' experience a .conccn. their fanatic allegiarh t· to the band quite remarkable in these time~ ul musical metamorphosis. 
New \Vave is "in" now. just take a look at what Jark Casad~· or Jnrma Kaukonen of the now dcfunu HOT TUNA are doing to steal a glimpse of om· of the more popular pictures that rock music is now painting. The Grateful Dead are still painring their pictures today,-not always in day-glo colors like years ago, but with colors 
-..... 


equipment. You just can't go to the store in Egypt and buy a new woofer or tweeter and there aren't many electrical sockets near the Great Pyramid! 
The concerts were performed on the 14th, l 5th, and 16th of September to a mixed audience of Egyptians and Dead Heads at the Sphinx Theatre, Gizah. Co-produced by the Egyptian Ministry of Culture as a-benefit for the Department of Antiquities and Madame Sadat's charity for handicapped children, the concerts were an incredible personal experience for the band members... The Grateful Dead playing 'Sugar Magnolia' under a full moon in the shadow of the Great Pyramid in Egypt... 
The Dead continued on the road in 1979 supported by growing numbers of loyal fans at that convey the many emotions of the individual band members, their sincere love of music, and appreciation for the much needed supporr that Dead Heads have afforded them over the years. 

.---------------------------------------------------------------~-----------­
The Observer 
V' ~ . N•'• Yl•tot . . , -" . 
.... ·~ .~· ;" j ..,_• 
.­
' .... -~ ·~-.. ~ .. v ·, .1~ ,11(.0, 
Ill .... .,,., ••• . • ~·~..... --... 
' • ~ " .• ·~~... Jill.... 



Nov. 16&17 Canol Hall smc 
Ftl & Sat 7, 9:15, & 10:30 
Hard to find Record.4f? 


Just for the Record, 
whose neU' specialty 
recordmart (thousands of collectors 
albums and cutouts) will open SOON at 


LOEWS Merchandise Mart 
Next to bus station, downt()_wn 

10% OFF all vitamins & health foods 
with ND-SMC ID 

HEALTH FOODS----------~ 
~--­
~ 

NATVR 4L VITAMINS SEARS HEALTH 

F()UDDEPT 
UNWERSITY PARK MALL 65lJl (;RAPE RD. AT l r.s. 2.'J SOUTH BENn 
I 

I DO YOU KNOW THESE GIRLS? 
I I Last seen on Friday at the Eminent Victorian Lounge
I I above The Ice House and are expected to be there every
I 

I Friday entertaining from ):00 -7:00, Happy Hour -4-6 Dad,·.
I I 

~--------------------------------------­
for furt~r mfonnaroon Wrtlt fal~r Andrt Ltvtollt. CSC Box 541 Norrt Damt. lndoana 46556
f, ·-· --________________________........:_::..
~~~ 

r 


Thursday, November 15, 1979-page 10 
Students protest 
Banners dt~<>played on several Notre Dame buzldings yesterday publicize student disap­proval of ff)e situation in Iran. [photos b_y Tom 
.Jackman) 

~"\) /·:\\' \
r····.w.· 

! ( __ ) 
__ , 
:•I 
• • • Sisters 
[continued from page I] ex. 
th.e sisters will be working will be very primitive. There is no hospital space available in Bangkok. The most the nurses can expect for their patients is a mat on the floor and maybe some sort of roof overhead. 
Despite these conditions, the 
Holy Cross Sisters are excited about their undertaking. 

"It is in the tradition of the sisters here to help out in times like these," said Bertrand. "We volunteered during the Civil War, which is how we ~ot our start in nursing. Helpmg the Cambodian refugees is simply i~, keeping with our•"" tradiuon. 
Because of this tradition, volunteering was not a hard choice for the nuns to make. 
''The circumstances are faf. from pleasant, but we feel privileged to be able to help,'' said Bertrand. . ') 
All transportation and est penses for the volunteers are being paid for by the Catholic Relief Service. In addition, the World Hunger Coalition do­nated $1,500 and Bishop 
McManus donated $5,000 from 
a special collection taken up at a 
Notre Dame mass on Sunday. 
Money will also be collected at 
the SMC dining hall the rest of 
this week to donate to the 
Catholic Relief Service. 




Quake 
[mntinued from page 1) 
near Qaen, about 60 miles west of the border with Afghanistan. 
Shirazi said army helicopters rushed relief teams and supplies to the stricken areas as well as troops to help in the rescue operations. Thrrt" helicopter flew the inju,ed to'' hospitals in the nearest towns. 
In a Tehran Radio broadcast Khomeini said:
•:W.., have received tragic and fngn~ening reports on the earthquake in Khorasan and the extensive losses in property and lives .... I call on it (the nation) to take immediate steps .... !his trag~?Y requires every­ones help ... 
Earthquakes are frequent in Iran, often taking many lives. A quake measunng 6.7 on the'l Richter scale struck about 270 miles south of Mashhad jan: 16, killing about 200 persons, injuring many others and leveling hundreds of structures. 
The l{ichter scale i.s a measure of ground motion as 
recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfokl increase in magnitude. A quake measuring six can cause severe damage. A quake registering seven represents a ''major'' • quake capable of widespread1l heavy damage. 1: 

St.LouisClub .o/fers ride 
The St. Louis Club is again offering its members a ride line for Thanksgiving break. Drivers and riders should call 7374 as soon as possible. St. Louisans are reminded that dues should be paid before arrangements can be made. 
I 
I 

.:1v I 
The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1979 -page 11 
'Under-represented minority' 
t 
ND-w-•ornen discuss problems 
by Rosie Lawrence 

Seventeen women who are dissatisfied with Notre Dame's treatment of women met in the library lounge yesterday after-­noon. 
Renee Leuchter, a senior in American Studies, called the meeting in order to "confirm my suspicions that I was not alone in my feelings about a woman's position at Notre Dame.'' At an institution dominated by males, women encounter unfamiliar situations whoich they find frustrating, she said. 
"Women are the most under­represented minority on cam­pus," said Leuchter. "We are trying to form a consciousness­raising group, but we can't force consciousness on anyone. Hopefully, we can reach people by just being here.'' 
Most of the women attending the meeting were graduate students or undergrads, al­though there were no sopho­mores or freshmen present. Several faculty members also attended. 
At the outset, many were 1 reluctant to express their ideas. As the sesston progressed; 1 however, the women opened up to each other. 
The main concern of the group was maintaining the interest of the women. There have been 
• • . Effort 
[nmtinuc:d from page I] 
Conyers stated that his group, 
which includes Keenan res­
idents Dan Bruno ana ] ohn 
Pinter, is not concerned about 
organization. ''We've used 
extsting structures such as stud­
ent government to coordinate 
our efforts,'' he said. 
Conyers believes that the 
mass which his organization 
has sceduled is irs most im-. 
portant event. "We want 
to get the Notre Dame com­
munity together for an hour 
of prayer," he explained. 
''We need to raise our level 
of consciousness to realize the 
plight of the Cambodians." 


Registers ready 
~oday 
Notre Dame students may pick up their copies of the Freshman Register today in the Student Union offices, 2nd floor LaFortune, from 1-5 p.m. The registers were delayed because the company encountered unforeseen production· problems. 
r----llltNIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIniiiii..IIIINII'j 
·-~~~cpQanis andi . -. · C(JQowell!~ 
Campus Delivery in LaFortune 
Ju.crt CDwQ 2&44&41 
CR~uQo~ bo~illg hOU!Is 

CBasell\ellt o~ ~evUat;; .....J 
sever·al attempts in the past to 
form similar groups, but each 
has £ailed for various reasons. 
Most;. of the women favored 
setting a specific time and place 
for rpeeting every week, and 
Wednesday afternoons were 
tentaltively chosen. Leuchter 
said she would announce the 
exacn time and place as soon as 
she could determine them. 
It ~as also suggested that Notre Dame women could make use of the program at Saint Mary's in order to make up for the lack of them at Notre Dame. 
The! general opinion,however, was ithat although the Saint Mar~'s program is very good, it does not deal with some of the difficulties facing Notre Dame women. These would include problems women encounter in a pred<jlminantly male atmo­sphere, ie. the classroom or the job situation. 

Leuchter pointed out that the Women's Advisory Council deals with the specifics of living at Notre Dame, such as security and housing. The conscious­ness raising group would deal 


Your Father's 
~-o------mustache--
.......--... 
Family Hair Styling Center 
PRECISION STYLE CUTS PERM AND BODY WAVES 
HIGHLIGHTING AND COLORING 

~~ 6~ STYLES 
FOR 
. ~~ 
c,# PEOPLE 

~ University Park Mall'\ 
~~ ~ 
10 am to 9 pm Mon. thru Sat. 'P~ Across from Cinema ~ _Appointment recommended Phone 277-3;70 ~ 

1
r----------------------Thanksgiving Special 1 fwith the ~urchase __?f any style1 1 cut Thts Coupon is -Worth 1
I 1 • ' . . --I 
I . . $2.50 Off I 
-~ ..j· ..--~1111111!·-~~---------------­

·'\1' ,. 
with psychological and social problems. One such problem is how to deal with sexist or unflattering remarks made by professors who do not realize that they may be offensive to some members of the class. One woman suggested that this kind of discrimmation could be stopped by letting the professor know that such statements are offensive, or by reporting him to the head of his department if. such behavior persists. 
Most of the women said they came because they were not happy with the way they are being treated at Notre Dame, and she wanted to understand the other side of the story. 
Many of the women seemed to agree with Leuchter, when she said, ''I'm tired of fighting alone against so many unreach­able men. Maybe a group will have a little more power than an individual does." 
The group plans to attend a luncheon meeting next Monday with Dean Weigert from 12 to 1 tn room 331 of O'ShaughnessyHall. · 




M.A. IN PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES 

.. , . I .. 
at the ~ · · UNIVERSI1Y OF CHICAGO:" ~'<1 
_­
' ·/ ~ 


. f 
.• 

The Committee on Public Policy Studies is a formal academic unit of The University of Chicago offering a two year master's degree program* which focuses on preparation of students for a wide variety of profe:>Si.onal careers. Major components of the program include Analytic Courses in Economics, Political Science, and Statistics; a range of Appli­cations Courses offered by the Committee and the other departments or professional schools of the University; and a series of Policy Seminars devoted to the scholarly, inter­disciplinary investigation of specific public policy issues. 
The Committee does not automatically assume that government solutions are the preferred solutions to all public policy problems. Its program presupposes arole for the private sector 
.,,,,,.. ·. 'I F . 
as well as the public sector in solving public policy problems. The Conmtittee further assumes that public policy leadership requires an understanding of both arenas and of the complex economic and social framework within which public policy operates. 
The Committee welcomes applications from students in the social sciences, the humanities, and the natural sciences. 
*The Committee offers a One Year Master's Degree Program to selected, advanced graduate students from various institutions. Such students are eligible for a flexible, elective-oriented program of study. 
For additional information and applications: 
Professor Robert Z. Aliber Committee on Public Policy Studies The University of Chicago Wieboldt Hall-Room 301 1050 East 59th Street Chicago, Illinois 60637 
In keeping with its long-standing traditions and policies, the University of Chicago. in admissions, employment, and access to programs, considers students on the basis of iwlivid1.1al merit and without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national or ethnic origin, handtc-.i ~r .other f11ctors irrelevant to fruitful participation in the programs of the University. The Affirmative Action Officer is the Univ&rsity official responsible for coordinating its adherence to this policy, and the related Federal and State laws and regulations (including Section 50S of the Rehabilitaticn Act of 1973, as amended). 

--------------------------~---~ ~ -------­

The Observer 
~~
•





micliael &co. 
~· 
oolr concepti ­
Tomorrow's Hair Designs . . . . Today for Contemporary !­Men &Women ~ 
l,,,.,:~:--, I 


North 
Southland Plaza
Yz 11ile eut ef Notre D•e 
2041 E. ltWIIIIIlluawood
Edison at Ind. 23 
. (219~_291-1001
(219) 272-7222 

Rockin You from the Tower, Tonite with 
Rock-n-Retrospect, from 11-12 
Followed by the Album Hour, Only on Notre Dame's Student H.ock, AM 64 


Thursday, November 15, 1979 -page 12 


Opium travels through new Middle Eastern channels 
MARSEILLE, France (AP) . A growing "Middle Eastern Connection" using laboratories in Turkey to process opium from Iran has all bur replaced heroin's famed ''French Con­nection" between Southeast Asia and the West, narcotics agents say. 
"Western Europe is ·being inundated with Middle Eastern heroin," said one international narcotics agent. "In 1977, about 75 percent of the heroin in Europe was from Southeast Asia. Today it's nearly 90 percent from the Middle East. We've seen a complete turn­around.'' 
The political upheaval in Iran and resultant lack of law en­forcemenr have allowed illicit opium growers there to double their crop this year to about 600 tons international narcotics exp~rts here and in Paris estimate. 
In the early 1970's, before the "French Connection" was broken, Turkish ·or Iranian opium was made into a crude morphine base and smuggled, among other places, to this Mediterranean port. Here it was refined into nearly pure "Made in France" heroin that 
· fetched top-dollar in the United States and Europe. Now, narcotics agents say Turkish traffickers have devel­oped their own laboratories, cutting out the ''middle-men" and making it extremely diffi­cult for rhe remnants of the "French Connection" io find a morphine base. "We also know now that Iran, too, has the capability of pro­clueing irs own heroin," one agent said. "A number of Iranians have been arrested in the United States and London with important quantities of heroin." Most of the ?.Pi~m that enters 
. the so-c~ll~? M1ddle Easrer.n Connectton comes from Pakr­stan and .Afghanistan, which agents estimate will produce a combined crop this year of 800 to I ,200 tons. T~e targets of ~he refined herom, wh1ch now IS found 75 percent to 80 percent pure, are 
the markets of Qdam Rotterdam and the Hague Holland, West Germany and, t a lesser extent France, Italy an Austria, agents said. 
U.S. narcotics agents ar concerned about the potentia impact of this heroin on U.S military bases in Wes Germany. 
They claim the huge suppl has cut prices there to abou $30,000 to $60,000 a kilogram 
2. 2 pounds -compared t 
$100,000 to $200,000 a kilogra in the United States and onl} about $12,000 in Turkey, the said. 
So far, Middle Eastern hei:oi has not reached U.S. markets ir substantial quantities, int,::r national agents said. 
''The United States is {w flooded with this heroin 9e­cause these traffickers don't have the markets of the old 'French Connection,''' one agent said. 
r 

Kennedy 



.... 

Every Tuesday Night ForJust $1.69 
Your Neighborhood Pizza HutOll restaurant brings you a large dinner of delicious artistry for just $1.'69. And we're not just whistling Dixie, when we say we make spaghetti the way Mom does. Ifs our brand ne\V old-fashioned recipe! And from cooking the pasta to tasty perfection ... to simmering the rich meat sauce till it's just right ... to serving up the hearty garlic bread, every loving touch is an exercise in the fine art of preparing spaghetti 
just like Mom's. Thesday night is Spaghetti Night at Pizza Hutl11, when we cook up a very special dish at a very special ~,J{ce. Just $1.69 for a large 
dinner with meat sauce, $1.39 for a small. It's enough to make even Mom whistle in delighted surprise! 
Available at our South Bend, Elkhart, Goshen, Nappanee and Mishawaka restaurants. 

l 
stumps in Minnesota 
1 

CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (AP) Edward M Kennedy is invad­ing Walret F. Mondale's home state -to test whether rhe vice president can hold Minnesota liberals behind the Caner­Mondale ticket for the 1980 Democratic nomination. ' 
Kennedy's foray roday into Minnesota comes after two days of intensive campaigning :n Iowa, where the Massa­chusett"-senator drew enthusi­astic responses in union halls, small towns, a seed plant and a carrie feed lot. 
Mondale has f>een hard at work trying to nail down the support of the Minnesota Dem­ocratic-Farmer-Labor Parry. 
Working to draw support to Kennedy is Rep. Richard Nolan, D-Minn., one of the earliest advocates of a Kennedy presidential bid. 
Minnesota Demo,Q"ats have a strong liberal tradiuon dating to the heyday of the late Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey. 1 
Campaigning m Iowa, Ken­nedy began working crowds in old-fashioned ~olitical style for the first time smce he launched his presidential bid last week. 
Traveling through the North­east, Midwest and South after declaring his candidacy in Bos­ton, Kennedy avoided close contact with large, outdoor crowds. 
But in Iowa, he began lingen ing among crowds, shaking hands, signing autographs having his picture taken. And there were traditional Kennedy family touches: sister Eunice and son Teddy also shaking hands. 
"Say hello to my sister Eunice. Say hello to my son Ted," said Kennedy as he moved among crowds at every stop. 
Trailing a short distance be­hind were carhpaign workers taking down the names, ad­dresses and telephone numbers of people who greeted the candidate. All of them will hear in coming weeks from Kennedy organization workers hoping to enlist their support for the Iowa Democratic caucus 
Jan. 21. 
I 
-

ft~) ·I 
I 

The Observer 
• 
Crime seems inevitable 


ConstJruction threatens Utah town 
DELTA Utah (AP)--The mayor 
of Delta, Utah--pop. 2, 100--says 
he cannot recall that the desert 
village ever had a murder or 
bank robbery in all its 60 years 
of existence. 
But he fears that will change if 
two enormous construction pro­
jects--the nation's largest coal­
fired power plant and the MX 
mobile missle system--go ahead 
as planned. 
Mayor Leland Roper predicts a 
tenfold population explosion 
within a decade. "'Sometime next month, lnterilor 
Secretary Cec'il Andrus is ex­
pected to approve construction 
of the $4.5 billion lntermoun­
t~in Power Project 10 miles 
nbrth of here. That will triple 
Delta's population within eight 
~ears. 
· But Roper says that is nothing 
compared to the explosive 
growth that would occur if 
President Carter deployed the 
$33 billion MX system in Utah 
and Nevada. 
Exact figures are not yet 
available, but Roper estimates 
the area population would boom 
to 20,000 within 10 years if both 
projects were built. Over 
the past 10 years, the city has ·grown a humble 6 percent. 

ACROSS  27  Servile  
1  Elec. units  follower  
5  Mock  29  Devonshire  
10  Book of  river  
the Bible  30  Smash intCl  
14  Dumb­ 33  Headed off  
15  "A Bell for-..  36  Hebrew priest  
16  Capital of  37  Modernists  
Latvia  38  Poppy juiCI3  
17  Organic  39  Blemish  
compound  40  Bobby of  
1811 20  Headlong Wanderer  41  hockey Rushing  
22  Roman  headlong  
bronze  43  Piggery  
money  44  Light-Horse  
23  American  f-l•  
Beauties  llr  .t!S  
24  Bay windr  4o  oandleadel'  
26  Directional  Brown  
suffix  47  Expert  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
"I don~t know how we can stand thc;:m both," said Roper, who lived here all his 56 years and--like many residents--rais­es alfalfa. He is paid $300 a year as mayor. 
As well :as the fear of crime, residents· worry about their religous traditions. Delta ·is abolut 90 percent Mormon, and "our predominant religion will become the minority,'' Roper predicts. 
The Air'Force estimates 2'5,­000 workers would be needed during peak MX construction from 1985 to 1987. That figure would drop to 10,000 upon completion of the project in 


Carter, oilindustry battle over windfall-profits tax 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The -The central question facing Carter administration and the the Senate as it opened debate oil industry are beginning ,their on the tax yesterday was just battle in the senate over the how much oil producers should proposed "windfall-profits" tax be allowed to keep of the -a trillion-dollar issue with vast expected $1.1 trillion total in­impact on national security and crease in the price ofU.S. crude 
foreign policy. 

The Daily c:rossword 
49 Indira's 26 
land 52 Succor 27 53 Burmese or 
Chilnese 28 56 Certain 29 flips 30 
59 Starchy 
foodstuff 31 60 Single time 61 Low-down 32 
ones 62 Latin abbr. 34 63 --do-wetl 64 Equines 35 65 Rue-Paix 
39 DOWN 41 Arabian 42 gulf 

2 One: pref. 46 3 Headland 4 Wages 47 5 Damage 48 6 Model 49 7 War clubs 8 Printing 50 
fluids 51 9 School: abbr. 52 10 Malicious 
burning 11 Overlook 54 12 Stareiat 13 State~ 55 19 Went astray 21 Fashion 57 
name 25 Bonus per­58 formances 
1989, giving rise to fears of a boom-bust effect. 
The mayor said Air Force officials had told him they could build barracks at a 4,000-man support base--if one were built nearby--in order to ease the housing crunch in Delta. 
"But I can't see what differ­ence that will make at quitting time,'' he said, when missile 
workers  came  looking  for  a  
good time.  
''Everyone I've talked  to ob­ 

jects to a military base in the area,'' said Roper. 
Specific sites for the ZOO-mis­sile system will not be chosen for a year. ­
oil between now and 1990. 
President Carter advocates a relatively stiff tax on the in­creased revenues. He wants the oil industry to pay a big part of the cost of improving trans­
portation efficieacy, developing 
Excuses 
non-oil fuels anWhelping lower­
from duty 
King of 
income Americans pay for en­
Crete 
ergy.
Motionless 
The industry notes that even
Needle case 
without any new windfall tax,
Return a refugee 
federal and state income taxes 
will take the lion's share of the
Without 
help 

$1. 1 trillion. The windfall tax Padded 
would deprive oil producers of 
gloves 

money badly needed to increase •
Fencing 
~xploration and production, the
foil Photograph, 
mdustry says. 
for short 
The Senate Finance Commit­
Emphasized 
tee agreed in large parr with the 
Fold 
industry arguments. The bill
Greek 
passed in)une by the House is
letter 
much closer to what Carter
Ocean vessel 
recommends. 
Skinflint 
Some amendments awaiting 
An Astaire 
Senate consideration would 
Religious 
make the tax more to Carter's
image 
liking by eliminating some of
Not any Cut into 
the J;J.nance Committee's _ex­
emptiOns for various categories
cubes 
On the 
of oil. Others would loosen the 
bounding 
tax even further in an effort to 
main 
improve incentives for increas­
Bedouin 
ed domestic oil production.
head cord Lopez theme 
The whole tax question arises 
from general ag~eement among
song 
Electrical 
government officials, the otl 
unit 
industry and economists that 
Draft 
the United States must reduce
letters 

Thursday, November 15, 1979-page 13 





3 Liwenbriu ·$1 
!BE BEST .FOR !BE BEST 
AU-BOWL 
~--9R 


~ BUCKS ($400) 
·\ry 


~. 
All Rights Reserved 
consumption of imported oil. 

Student Union Proudly Presents 

) 

Saturday Rov. 17 Stepan Center 
Tickets $7.00 General Admission 8pm 
Tickets available at Student Union Bo:x Office-Lal'o11une and all River City Becords Plenty of tickets · Still available and at t~e Door 

-----~~--------------------­
The Observer -Sports Thursday, November '15, 1979-page 14 
Incumbent Carter ready to battle Kennedy 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Pre«­ident Carter won't officially become a candidate for re-elec­tion until next month, but ro'P administration aides alread"y sound eager to tangle with hij; principal Democratic cha·l­lenger, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. 
The Massachusetts senator had barely finished making his first speech as a declared presidential contender last week when a White House official remarked anonymously: 
''The president intends to run on his record. It is our impression that Senator Kennedy intends to run away from his.'' 
Kenne-dy also drew criticism during the first week of his campaign from officials willing to speak for the record, includ­ing onr member of Carter's Cab met, his press secretary and his .top inflation fighter. 
The Massachusetts senator launched his campaign on Wednesday, preceding Carter's expected Dec. 4 announcement by nearly a month. 
Also jumping into the Democratic race was California Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr., who is running a distant third in the polls and so far has drawn little reaction from the Carter White House. 
With the president's Demo­cratic challengers already in full pursuit, the Republican. party completes its field this week when Ronald Reagan makes a formal declaration of can­didacy. He will be the lOth and final entry in the field. 
Reagan, 68, is making his third try for the White House and is generally acknowledged to be the frontrunner for the GOP nomination. He begins his campaign tomorrow at a fund-ra1sing dinner, then embarks on a 12-city, five-day campaign tour. 
Thus far, the Republican hopefuls have treated one another gently, apparently by design. 
''Among the presidential candidates, there has been something of a gentleman's agreement'' to avoid knock­down-drag-out fights, said Rep. Guy Vander]agt of Michigan, chairman of the House REpub­lican Campaign Committee. 
The situation among the Democrats is very different. 
Kennedy and Brown differ on many issues. But they sound similar when they criticize Carter's leadership. 
"Government falters," de­clared Kennedy, a 17-year. vet­eran of the Senate. "Fear spreads that our leaders have 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 



ABOUT THE TIME' /-IE 8E6AN CLAIMING HE WAS 
FATU£R !4ES8UR6H'5 LONG 




Where areyoudoing 





DOOIBSBUBY
the restof yourUfe'f" 
WGe'fe«~· 

•FeB. 16, 1976. P&KING. /AI&l(]Jtf& BANQUeT IS 8/G SUCCESS." 
0 
,r 

'MY {)/5T!NGU15H&/J R£({)Rf) OF 
~lNG IAIITH M!NOR.IT/&5 HA/J 
08VIOIJSLY PReCElJEJJ M&. AL50, 


h4CT THAT I 64V& mA5T IN JAPAN&S& SIZMS 70 HAVC: MAO& OU!Tc AN IMPR£5SION." 
.I ' r ' I, -..:.:__J 


re _R~pui?_-themselves to retreat.'' 'f' 
''Presidential leadership often seems the exception rather than the rule," said Brown, a 41-year-old, two-term governor making his second try for the Democratic nomination. 
Brown also took a dig at Kennedy, saying, "I see neither the president nor the senator from Massachusetts as adequa,t,e spokesmen for the future. 

South Bend fasts today 
I 
Today is a community day of fast in sympathy for the Souttl­east Asian refugees in South Bend. The day will culminate in a symbolic refugee meal prepared by the refugees themselves. The evening meal will be held at Little Flow~r Church, 54191 N. Ironwood, from 6:30 to 7:45 and will include prayers, songs, and slides. Two presentations on local and international efforts will be given by Andre Nickle, a local attorney and John Gilligan, former governor of Ohio, director for the Agency for International Development and law professor. The day's activities are sponsored by the World Hl,lnger Task Force of the United Religious Coalition. Rest"rvations can be made by calling the URC office at 282-2397. 
"THe 7VAS75 5£CMW /3NOL£5S, 5t!REL..Y NO AMCRICAN eNVOY HA5 
&V~ 8e£N Ri3C£1VW a/ITH 5(JQ{ CP&N AFFEC­
= TION." 
''Fe8. 17. St:NT MAO N&W RE5PIRATORY Tl3NT a/ITH MY CDMPL!M&NT5.,. 
q 

........... . . ... . ... . . . . . . l..ast ......................... . 
Count on challenge andqhange everyday~ a Factory Mutualengineei: 

........... GSU Pre-Game Social .........

Were coming to campus soon. See your college recruitment office for details. 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 : 30-1 : 00 11I1 7 .......... · · 
• 
FACTORY MUTUAL ENGINEERING Suite 400 . 2850 Golf Rd 10 Gould Ctr 

·•········ WILSON COMMONS ··········· 
-
Rolling Meadows, IL 60008 
..... 

':fhe Observer-SportsBoard Thursday, November 15, 1979 -page 15 
------..------------~~ --~~--­
1-' 


lnterhall 
The men's and women's tournamtmts are both single elimination. Each match consists of three games (best-of-three series). The pairings for these raquetball tournamemts will appear each Thursday in The Observtlr. It is the responsibility of the participant to contact his or her opponent and set up the match in each round. (Phone numbers are listed in parenthesis below.) The results of the raquetball matches must be turned in, in person, to the Interhall office before noon on the following Wednesday. Failure to report the results to the lnterhall office will mean disqualification of both participants. 
MEN'S 
John Reust (1735) v. Richard Cordova -(1024) 
Kevin Gallagher (232-7415) v. Dennis Cotter (1689) , Terry Finn (234-0467) v. Chris Slatt (1725) 
Frank Dedace (3092) v. AI Adams (1183) Don Shank (8762) v. John Onufer (1109) Paul Pineda (8763) v. Mike Reff (4351) Jeff Stahl (1845) v. Ed Rooney (1398) John Schafer (6934) v. Tom Philbin (1628) Mark Mulligan (6428) v. Greg Fisher (6770) Bob Wegener (277-0333) v. Terry Reagan 
..(8375) Tom Jackson (6959) v. Dave Yordy (3670) Ron Lorenzini (1623) v. Brent Buetters 
(1786) ·Jim McGuinnis (8532) v. Dave Esprig (3235) 
Steve Krickle (277-5581) v. Chuck Meakin 
I (1161) Players receiving byes: Terry Mulcahy Kevin Young 
WOMEN'S 
Betsy Klug (7942) v. Julie Rice (2194) Laura Leitzinger (2184) v. Martha Ballagher (6791) 
' On the Air 
Basketball --Notre Dame vs. Soviet National team WSND­AM ·640 with Paul Stauder and Craig Chval --7:30p.m. 

... Homes 
(continued from.page 16] 
includes breakfast and dinner and that the average asking pr:ice is about $55-a-day. . 
Like Damp, Feinberg thinks 
rentals  have  been  hurt  by  
delays  the  organizing  com­ 
mittee  suffered  before  an­ 

nouncing its ticket policy. "People are still waiting to see how many and what tickets they've got before they try to find accomodations,'' he ex­plained. 
Those delays have also affected local property-owners who couldn't tell prospects what srectator seats would come wuh the house. Most local orders have now been confirmed, however. 




Classifieds 
Notices Wanted 
Need 4EAGLES Tix. Will pay $40-50 per'~Will do typing. Neat -Accurate. Gall: pair of GOOD seat. Joe 232-7456.

~287-5162. 
NeetJ ride to Boston to announce myUsed Book Shop. Open Wed .. Sat.. Sun. 

candidacy over Thanksgiving. Will share9-7. Ralph Casperson. 1303 Buchanan 

u~ual, call Mike-288-1376.

Rd. Niles. 683-2888. 
11 HAVE ROOM, rider to COLUMBUS,Kennedy Campaign meeting Sunday, OHIO--THANKSGIVING. DAVE 3637.

Nov. 18 at 4:00 P.M .. Little Theatre. 
LaFortune. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for Thanks­giving. Can leave any time after 12:00St. Louis Club Ride Line: Drivers .3nd 

noon on Tuesday. Katie 8142.

riders call 7374 for arrangements. Dues 
should be paid as soon as possible. 
Need 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles Concert. 
Please call 232-4462 after -5:30.

COZMIK PRODUCTIONS HAS "THE 
HUMANS"'' Available now for dances 
Hey New Jerseyans: Anyone going homeand parties. Mick-8212. 

for Thanksgiving? I have ride home. Need ride back out to SMC. Please callIMPROVE YOUR GRADES! 

Angie 4-1-5465.

Send $1.00 for your 306-page catalog of 
collegiate research. 10.250 topics listed. 
B~spersons and dishpersons needed-­Box 25097G. Los Angeles. California, male or female. Apply at The Carriage ·

90025. (213) 477-8226. 
H0use. 24460 Adams Road, 272-9220. Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. 
Need Ride to Minneapolis for Thanks­giving. Please call Mary Ann at 4-1-4347.

Any students interested in learning 
Chinese for credit call 277-5581 after 11 
Riders needed to Omaha or any interme­p.m. 

diate points. Leave Sun. Nov. 18. Call 
31?3 
I need a ride to O'Hare Airport on 11/21

Lost &Four.td between 12:30 and 3:00. Please call Marcia at 7126. Found--calculator. Identify make, model. and any special marks to reclaim. Need ride to Colorado for Thanksgiving. Phil 8763. Call Mark 4663. 
Lost glasses between Dillon and Stepan 
Need ride to Florida for Thanksgiving.

on 11/8. Silver frames, brown case. 
Please call Chris 1852.

Please call John 1685. 
Lost 1 N.D. class ring, 1981. Initials QM A .. reward. Call Dave 8432. I n~ed a ride to Milwaukee for Thanks­
. givihg. Mike 8385. Lost: Texas Instruments SR51-II Calcula­tor in Eng. Bldg. Reward. Call (7374). Need a ride to Wisconsin, Mad., Milw., 
Janesville. anywhere please. Can leave Lost: Silver Rolex wristwatch at Stepan Tue, at 2:30. BB courts on 10129. Reward. Please call 
Chris 1852. Need ride to P~TTSBURGH to/from 
break. Share expenses. Dave 8859. Gold charm bracelet on campus on /" October 27th. Finder please contact Judy Need ride to BOSTON for Thanksgiving. Gates. 3003 Rexford Way, Louisville. Ky. Can• leave morning of 20th--will share 
40205. Reward II' expenses. John 3588. 
Lost: Man's long, tan trenchcoat at Nee~ ride to Buffalo for Thanksgiving. 
Dillon Formal. Please call1576 with info. Can ,leave Wednesday. Call Ray 1762. 
Lost: Gold link bracelet. Sentimental BEJliCH LOVERS! Part time student value. Reward offered--call Nancy sales representative position available for #8034. Spring Semester. Job involves promoting high! quality sun trips on campus for com1111ission and free travel. Call or write Lost 1 Tl-55 Calculator. Call Mark #1062. for ar~ application. Summit :rravel, Inc., Reward. Parkade Plaza, Suite 11. Columbia, 
Missburi, 65201 (800) 325-0439. Silver. metal framed glasses. Bob--6718. 
Neeq ride to Madison or Milw. area Tues. Lost: 3 color slides -probably near the Nov.' 20. I'II share expenses. Peggy Huddle.--Call 6865. 4942: 
Lost: Umbrella in South Dining Hall. Need ride to Massachusetts or Initial "JMc" on handle. Call 1947, Con~ecticut area for Thanksgrving. Mike 8661, or 1003 and ask for John McGrath. -3898. 
Found: Green St. Christopher medal. Payi~g $10 men's, $5 women's for class Engraved "Love. Melissa 4-2-76." Ph. rings, Any condition. Will arrange 8627. pick-up. Phone toll-free 1-800-835-2245 
anytime. 
Rider~ needed for Thanksgiving break. YounQstown. Steubenville, East Liver­pool area. Call Rich 232-2382 after 11:00 


For Rent 
Bedroom. Share kitchen. 2 bath. 
P.M. I

$75/mo. and 1/3 utilities. Bus service. 
233-2900. 
Need 'ride to Saginaw. Michigan for Than~giving. Will share. Joe 1205. 

Furnished 4-6 bedroom house for rent. 
Help' 1 Desperately need ride for Thanks­~ow or next semester. Walking distance giving\1 to the Quad Cities in lOWAI Callto campus. Call 272-1729 after 5:00. 

Ann. $148. Room for rent. $67!mo. and utilities. Call 
Need ~ide to Cleveland for Thanksgiving.

6171 or 289-8295. 
Please call Bob #3324. 
Need ride for three people to Chicago on Wednesday. Will share expenses. Call Larry -1049, 


For Sale 
For Sale--V2 price United coupon and 112 price American coupon. Call Brian--1161 
Christmas shopping in the comfort of your dorm' Avon gifts for men, women, and children. 233-6581. 
SKIS for sale-K2 255 Salt, 185cm. Used 1season. 8670. 
United Airlines 1/2 fare coupons $35.00. Call 277-1387. 
For Sale: 2 Clemson GA tix. Call Andy at 1022. 
One United half price ticket $30. Call Shaun 7992. 
Eagles Tix: 1ticket on marn floor center. Sell for regular price. --.Tim 8793. 
1978 Rabbit excellent condition. Great road car. Sun roof. cruise control, air, FM·AM radio, large tires. Inquire 255-2223. 
One-way United plane tit:ket to N.Y.'s LaGuardia airport. Must be used by a girl before Dec. 15. $50 or best offer. Call Patty 2278. 
One United Airlines coupon for sale. Call Barry at 2752. 
For Sale: 1/2 fare coupon. Best offer call 4-1-4161. 
Selling United Airlines half fare coupon, $30.00. 7550, 272-7180. 
1973 Plymouth Duster. Gooa condition, low mileage. Best offer call 288-9908 before 3 
For Sale: 78 VW bus champagne edition. 
G.B .. auxiliary heater. priced to sell. Call 232-4p6o after 5 pm. anytime weekend,_ 
A classic AR manual turntable with an Ortolan VMS 20 Mk II cartridge lor sale­BEST OFFER-CALL AHAB at 8857. 
For Sale -one season basketball ticket, padded seat -Best offer 234-1860. 
2 adjoining Soviet National tickets for sale. Call 8627 or 3630. 
1/2 price air .ticket discount coupons for sale. Best offer. 272-6116. 


Tickets 
DESPERATE'Need 2 GA Clemson Tix. Big$$. Marie 4-1-4677. 
Clemson Tickets (4) needed desperately $$ Call 1735 -Randy. 
Need 1student or GA ticket to Clemson. Call John 1840. 
Help! Need 2 GA Clemson tix. Call {SMC) 5202 or 4708. 
Need 2 GA Clemson tix. Please help! Call Kitty (SMC) 5413. 
Need up to 5 Clemson GA tix. Will pay big $$. Please call Darcy 232-7376! 
Need 2student tickets for Clemson. Call Kathy Patton at 7757 from 9-5 Monday ­Friday or at home 233-2624. 
Clemson GA's many needed. Groups together or at least in pairs; call collect any day after 9:00P.M. [716] 586-86911. 
SEX [or BIG$$$) for 1or 3 Clemson tix. 4628 -(Heckle). 
Help!! Desperately need 2 GA Clemson Tix!! Call Susan 4-1-4796. 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Perrier-­Clemson' Please call 7831. lf the eggs roll. ~atch it. 
Les Memoires de Deboire. WANTED: GA tickets for any home (1979) games. Must be two or more together. Call 287-3311 Danny -Joe. Watch for CAMPUS/NEW YORK 1 
Need 2...GA and 1 student ticket for BASEBALL FANS-­Clemson.' Will pay$$$. C'all Jim at 1161. Don't forget-final game of the 1979 
World Series! Sat. Nov. 17th, at 9:30 in Desperately need many student and GA SMC Clubhouse. tickets to Clemson. Call Joe 1644. 
Campus Kennedy '80 Headquarters is in Wanted: GA's for Clemson will pay top Room 35 Sorin Hall. Stop by and visit or $. Call 1865 call Paul at 8451. 
Need 4 student tickets to Clemson -Call Dear Bill No. 1, John (3684) or Pat (3708). Happy Birthday to You 
Happy Birthday to You A free poster of Aunt Bea (from Andy Got the Mary Jane blues Griffith) plus money for a Clemson ticket. Happy Birthday to you. 
Call Mike at #1653. Love. 
Miss Ann Drug-Hair Will pay dearly for four Clemson GA's. Call Rick at 8739. If you like pina coladas--taking walks in 
the rain--Body surfing at Malibu--Skinny 2 Clemson G.A. tickets. Best offer. Call dipping at the Dunes--and smoking Mark 6435. BROCCOLLI: Destiny Beckons. The 
Dynamic Duo [AI Pacino, 3091; Chris For Sale: 2 Eagles Tix (Section 10, row Lyons, 8828) are Open this weekend. No 2). Best offer. Call John 1360. nerds, please .. Call late. We're night 
movers. Need 2 Clemson GA's and 2 student tix. John 232·0550. · Mary, 
You gave me an irate phone call early Need GA tickets for Clemson game. Call Tuesday morning and then hung up on Doug 6740. me. I'd really like to talk with you again, 
but I don't have your number. Please call Tickets wanted --one book of season me back. You know the number. basketball tickets or as many single Tom K. tickets as possible. Call Don 8762. 
Hey Mary Beth Need Clemson tickets! Peggy -4942. Here's your personal. Love, the Club Need two Clemson tickets. Peter 1863. 
Townie and Martha (see I didn't call you I need 2 G .A. Clemson tix together. Call Red), Thanks for the cake and your Anna (SMC) #5782. sympathy. 
Bird and Linville I need 2 Clemson GA 's 4579. 
Cori Shea I heed 2or 3 GA Clemson tickets. Please SHUT UP call Dave 8782. Sincerely, ND/SMC Student Body 
Need 2 G.A. Clemson tix. Please help. Tom O'Grady, Call 4-1-4280. Happy 23rd Birthday, a little late! 
Meet me at Gooses's Friday at midnight Needed' Two GA Clemson ticket~. 1 • and I'll buy you a Guinness! Please call Diane at 6874. Love and kisses, 
You Know Who Desperately need 3 student tix for Clemson game. Please call Amy 4-1-Nancy Russell has a new nephew. Call 4156. her for details. 
Betsy and Mary. Have fun in Japan. Don't work too

Personals 
hard. What do I get?? Happy Turkey Day 11 Diane
CLEMSON will paint the dome ORANGE. 
To Eilleen, Mary, and Ann [Those Who is this guy fooling? 
W.W.W.]: Anne from SMC, Philly Fran, Tom from Texas, Ken and Adrian [The 'thy-' sher: Joto Bros.], Jim "Tex" O'Neill, Jim and Are you ready for Saturday night? I Clark [The California Kids], Chris the am, even though I'll probably see you Photographer, T.J .J. Tennessee, Jack before then--the dining hall, the game, "Molson" B., Bob Stu. for the beer. Senior Bar? Matteo Gravel, Marcus, My roommates 
Love, Cute and short Chris and 2words Sheehy, Your Mystery Date and all those who remembered, it was a ' great 18th. Beat 3-5 any day. Thanx. GIRLS: Jimmy D. Call CHRIS SAYRE at 1678 and wish P.S. How goes the Chase Will? him a HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY. 
Bill Proxmire, Who concert ticket holders! N.D. Who Have you met Alice yet? party information: Call Lou 1167. 
Supporters of the Athletic type are always 
Bobby' the best. 
Can we! Forget about Beth. We Barb voluptuous VOLS know how to please! How ·bout tha1 trout 1 Announcing the return of the fip; 1er 
Love Martha lickin' lip smackin' seminarian to Farle1 
--Quai To the queerest person we know: Have a fantastic birthday and just answer us one The TIGERS are coming. question -How do you solve a problem like Maria? Saturday CLEMSON bring DEATH 
Love. VALLEY to the north. The tootsies for 501 

What is Campus/New York?!?' Barb Biehl is 21 today!'! Call 41-4001 to wish her happy birthday. Anne C. Love ya, Barb!! You were great in Tennessee--you Patsy, Charm, were so sti II! Peggy, Marilyn, Beth J Foamy 

SRorts 
Tip-off at 8 pm. 

Irish debut, face Soviets 
byMarkPeny Sports Editor 
Notre Dame fans will get their 
first _sood look at the 1979-80 
Fightmg Irish basketball ream 
tonight, as it faces the Soviet 
National ream in an exhibition 
contest. The game is scheduled 
tt> begin at ~ p.m. at the ACC. 
''The Soviets are good enough 
to begin wirh," remarks Irish 
head coach Digger Phelps, 
"but we expect them to be 
paniwlarly serious about their 
tour thi~ year, with the Olym­
pics in Moscow on the horizon. 
I think a great deal of attention 
will be focused on their games 
this vear because of that fact." 
lh<: Soviets have been gain­ing some anention with their pia~ thus far in the current ,-\mniGin tour. They won five of the first six games on their l·i -g<tme schedult', losing onlv· w Brigham Young la.;r Satur­dav.89-81. 
This marks the third staight vear that the Soviet team has ~·i~ited Notre Dame. with the two teams splitting the . two games. 
The Soviets are coached by Akxandr Gomelsky, and the squad is almost identical to last year's team (which defeated Notre Dame. 90-75), but also features the addition of Sergei Bel(lV, ont' of the players who ht'lped the Soviets defeat the United States in the 1972 01\'mpics in Munich. 
Other familiar names from 
recent years include 7-4 center 
Vladimir Tkachenko, 6-9 for­
ward Anatoli Mishkin (who 
scored 29 points against the 
Irish last year), 6-10 forward 
Andrei Lopatov, and 6-0 guard 
Stanislav Eremin. 
The Irish hope to boast a 
quicker starting lineup this 
season, and that could prove 
valuable if they hope to keep up 
with the talented Soviet team. 
''The biggest problem we had 
last vear was transition,·' 
Phelps notes. "The Soviets 
were ex;erts on the interna­
tional rules and we got left 
behind a few times early in the 
game before we caught on. 
''They tombine their height and quickness so well at times it's almost scary, mainly be­cause their forwards handle themselves so well even at 6-9 or 6-10." 
The Soviet contest will mark the debut of Orlando Woolridge as Notre Dame's starting cen­ter. The 6-9 junior played most of last year at forward, and his experience wiU be valuable with the loss of last year's starting center.s. Hill Laimbeer and Bruce Flow.ers. 
Woolridge will be joined on the from line by forwards Kelly Tripuka and TracyJackson, and their muscle will be valuable under the boards. 
"It's no secret that rebound­ing, particularly at the offensive end. will dictate how much 


Sports Briefs _ ___, 

success we have this year," Phelps says. ''And that point will really be rested by the Soviets. 
"Without Flowers and Laim­beer we won't be quite as physical under there, <0\nd we'll have to depend on Woolridge, Tripuka, and Jackson to con­centrate on the rebounding aspect." 
Seniors Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik will stan at the guard spots for the Irish, and they will probably see a lot of playing time, as Mike Mitchell and freshman John Paxson are both sidelined with injuries. Junior Stan Wilcox and walk-ons Marc Kelly, Tim Healy, and Kevin Hawkins provide the only hack­up at this spot. 
Tonight will also mark the debut of freshmen Tim Andree, who will serve as back-up cenrer, and Bill Varner, who should see some action at forward. 
"J think we've got the ingre­dients of another good season,'' Phelps adds. "We"re starting with plenty of. people with experience, and that helps a great deal. I think everyone understands his rok:. and what is expected of him, and that's a bonus at this point.·' 
Near Olympic site 
Private homes open for rental 
LAKE PLACID. N.Y. (AP)­ings. so many property owners have all rypes of accomoda­Hotels and motels in and near have registered in several tions. Thev run from about $20 
Thursday, November 15, 1979-page 16 

Stacy  may  not  look  ltke  
Vladimir  Tkachenko,  but  tl  has  helped forward  Tracy  
jackson  to  prepare  /or  the  Soviet's  7-4  center.  

[J•hoto by Tom}ackman j' 

this 1980 Winter Olympics places.) to $68 d<;llars per day, per 
village are solidly booked for "We are renting some for person.'' February, but hundreds of pri­four days, seven days, eight Fienberg said the $68 rental-' vate homes still are available days," said Philip Feinberg, 
[omtinued on page 151
Beglane to discuss sports 

for rental. the agency's president. "We While prices may vary widely there appears to have been a Bemie Beglane. Assistant Dean at St. . John's 
recent decline, perhaps be­


Schlichter could prove key
cause there has been less Adminisrration Departmenr will speak to interested students 
Univn-.;irv in New York and chairman of irs Athletic 

demand than anticipated. ronwrrow afrernoon al'i p.m. in the Gra~e pit. Beg lane. a 
Many prices appear to be 

in Saturday's OSU game
competitive with hotels and moving w the claso;;room. will discuss the rapidly growing 
o;;porrs writer with the Long Island Prl'ss for 2) years before 

many homeowners are offering world of adminic;rration in both professional and college 
tickets to Olympic events along COI.U 1\IHUS, Ohio (AP) "He has been able to give us -.porr-.. can·n opporr unilleo., and undergraduate and graduate 
with the accomodations. Even though he is just a the big play,'' Coach Earle -.1wh. :\II an· welcome. 
Residents of Lake Placid and sophomore, Art Schlichter Bruce says of the 6-foot-2, five surrounding communities should give sec.md-ranked Ohio 200-pound star from Blooming­have been allowed ro buy up to State a clear advantage at the burg. Ohio. "We're looking for 

Erratum 

50 rickets each for the Games vital quarterbacking ar nurn­more and more from Schlichter from, a preferred pool that hn-I1 Michigan Saturdav. each week.'' ufkred them at least some How the rival quarterbacks, Schlichter has passed for 1,323 
Tht" ti r-.;r paragraph of Tueo.;day' s Di llon-Stanf~>rd arr icle 

highly prized seats for events .John Wangler or B.J. Dickey yards and 12 touchdowns. He's -.r;lf!·d rhar Dillon wao.; "unbearen. untied and unscored upon 
such as the figure skating for the Wolverines and Schlich­run for 409 yards and nine more f(,r rlw pao..r two sc'aS<Hl'i." Howevc·r. Alumni scored lao.,t year 
finals. ter, perform may well deter-scores. in Dill,,n·-. --6 vilrorv ovn rheir club. As stated, rile same 
"We have over 1,2oo rentals mine the outcome of this na­In contrast, Wangler has mo tC";trno.; rinl ().(, in.rhis year'-; regular season finale. Also, 
available within 50 miles," said tionally televised showdown for thrown for 1,095 yards and six Di 11"11 qua rwrha, k Brian Crowle~· is not the brut ~n of Big 
Ed Damp, who works in the real the Big Ten football title and rouchdowns and rushed tor just1\('(J'.., runni:1g hack Dana Crowley. Hrian is Dana~ umle. 
estate office of Jack Wilkins, a Rose Bowl berth. 21 yards. Dickey, Michigan's'JJ,,· (J!J,,.,T,'' ap.,login·-. for the errors. 
member of the Lake Placid Ironically, Schlichter has an nLunhn·orw quarrcrb:.iCk unr II Olympic Organizing Commit-opportunity to follow the same an injun; forced him to vield to tee's executive board. "Over' path as Michigan's Rick Leach Wanglei·. has 461 pao.;sing yards 600 of those are within 20 111 this heated series. and·2•>2 on the ground. He hao.;
0-C holds equipment return 

miles.'' Cornelius Greene led Ohio ruo.;lwd f(,,-two scores and The Wilkins Agency "has State to a 21-14 victory over rhrown for four. rented 130 homes so far, most Michigan when Leach was an Schlichter and Wangler both
f-:qu1prnc·nr rl'rurn for the Off-Campus foot bali ream will be of those to corporations," with error-prone freshman. But the are coming off shoddy perfor­t•Htl\ from ·1:110-·i: I) p.m. ar Notre Dame Stadium, Gare 11. 

prices ranging from $2,600 to slick left-hander came back to mances of a week ago. $50,000 for the February direct the Wolverines to three The Ohio State star, among Olympic period. Damp said the successive triumphs over the the top five in national passing, mean asking price is $15,000-Buckeyes, leading Michigan to managed only 7 of 16 comple­

Hockey captains meet today 

$20,000. the Rose Bowl every year. tions for 58 yards and one "There are a lot of places It was Schlichter's turn to touchdown in a 34-7 decision available at four, five and six learn in 1978 as a freshman. He over Iowa. The Buckeyes
Thc·n· will be a meeting for all interhall hockey captains thousand,'' Damp said of the threw just 10 passes and was managed just 185 yards, too.

toda\ ar -L.~O p.m. in the ACC auditorium. 

present situation, however. -intercepted once. Michigan "I just wasn't real sharp," "The market was softer than won easily 14-3 in Columbus said Schlichter before adding, we expected.'' with Leach completing 11 of 22 ''The big play will give Michi­

Final pep rally tomorrow 

For those who want to rent passes for 166 yards. ~an something to think about. rooms or who don't want to stay Now Schlichter has blossomed JUSt hop~ we c.~n get the ball to the full time, S. Curtis Hayes, _jnroOhio State's all-time career our recervers. 
The final pep rally of the 1979 football season will be held 

Inc., of nearby Saranac Lake passing leader and needs just Wangler, meanwhile, pitched tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the Stepan Center. 
says it has more than 1 ,5oo 109 yards to break his own four interceptions, helping Pur­Featured speakers include poet Tim Foley, Ted Horansky, 
rooms and homes listed. (New single season record of 1,840 due hand the Wolverines their Swtt Zc-ttek and offensive lrne coach Brian Boulac. 
York law allows multiple list-total yards. first conference loss 24-21. 
........... ~ .............. "~···~··: .. 
~····· 






