
-------------~--------~--­
, , , Irish in the regional -page 16 
V(JJ., XIII, NO. 104 / 
Title IX presents problems 
by Mark Perry 
Assistant Sports Editor and StaffReporter 
Editor's note: The following is the second article ofa two-part series devoted to studying the effect Title IX has had on collegiate athletics since its passage in 1972, especially after the release of /he pro­posed Title IX guJdelines by the HEW in December of1978. 
In January of this year, the National Collegiate Athletic As­suc:.ition (NCAA) held their 73rd annual convention in San Francisco. Although they dis­cussed many issues and heard many proposals, the topic on all the delegates' minds was the recent Title IX guidelines is­sued by the Department of Health, Education, and Wel­fare. 
This one issue was the sub­ject of countless hours of dis­cussion, and the entire general roundtable discussion, in which delegates are allowed to intro­duce any issue for debate, was devoted to Title IX. 
Title IX was one of the 
Educational Amendments passed by Congress in 1972, and reads as follows: 
''No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, or be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimina­tion under any educational acti­vity receiving federal financial assistance.'' 
Because studies indicated that this was not the case in 
[continued on page 3] 

Roche plans review ofSG constitution 

by Michael Onufrak StaffReporter 
Bill Roche, Student Union director, announced yesterday that he is reviewing the Student Government constitution and plans to suggest changes which would alleviate much of the confusion and controversy that surrounded the recent selection of the Student Union director for 1979-80. 
] ohn Bonacci, Student Union Social Commissioner, also suggested an alternative plan for "centralizing" the selection process. 
The confusion Roche and Bonacci hope to eradicate centers around the Board of Commissioner's reJection of nominee Tim Coughlin last week for Student Union director. A second matter of controversy revolves about he fact that no secretary was present at the decisive meeting at which Coughlin was rejected. 
According to the student government constitution, exact minutes need not be kept at board meetings, but there must be some kind of public record. According to Roche, no secretary was present at the meeting. 
Tom Hamel was approved by the Board of Commissioners last Thursday night. Hamel was the Stt1dent Union Steering Committee's second nominee and will assume the position Aprill. 
The selection process calls for the Student Union Steering Committee to select a nominee from student applications and then to seek the al?proval of the Board of Commissioners. 
Such a regtmented selection process is necessary because the Student Union director heads what has come to be the largest financial student organization at ~otre Dame. 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
' 
. 

• ' .... 4~~' ~ 
Roche's goal is to "make the letter of the constitution conform with a more internalized seiection process. 
Next year's board will consist of eight students, with the newly appointed off-campus commissioner added to this year's members. With the group in mind, Roche intends to push for an amendment to the constitution which will require "a very strong majority to overturn a future nominee." 
''The way the Board still serves as a check to the steering committee, but there is also more internalization within the entire selection process,'' Roche commented. 
The purpose of the Board of Commissioners, according to Roche, ts to ensure that "a bad nomination doesn't go through." 
Roche likes the idea of the Board because most members are elected by students either directly or indirectly and because Board members come from diverse segments of the Notre Dame community. 
Roche admitted he would not like to see another Steering Committee nominee rejected by the Board of Commissioners in the future. By widening the mar~in it would take to reject a future nominee, Roche hopes to attatn that goal. 
·Roche's plan is in sympathy wtth an Observer editorial published last Friday. The editorial called for a "two-thirds or three-fourths majority vote'' to be required for the Board of Commissioners to find the Steering Committee's nominee unacceptable. 
Bonacci, like Roche an SU Steering Committe member, agreed that the selection process should be more "internalized," but put forth a slightly more liberal plan. 
===~:=== 
THURSDAY, MARl:H I '1, l'J7<> 
-
.. ''"!. ~ .. ~ 
Israelis hurdle last major roadblocks 
JERUSALEM (AP) -The Israeli Cabinet yesterday ap­proved two crucial compro­mises proposed by President Carter, paving the way to the long-sought peace treaty be­tween Isreal and Egypt possibly as early as next week. 
''The last two outstandin~ issues were resolved today,' said Prime Minister Menachem Begin as he emerged from the six-hour Cabinet meeting. He refused to outline the substance of the compromises. 
Begin, who appeared worn and said he had caught a cold, told reporters he had telephon­ed Carter immediately after the session and that "the president was very glad." 
The Cabinet will meet Sun­day to act on the treaty as a whole. The pact must be approved by Israel's parlia­ment, the Knesset, before it can be signed by Carter. Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. 
Political analysts said the _Cabinet and Parliament were certain to approve the treaty,.. the first ever between Israel and an Arab country. 
Israel's state radio reported that the Cabinet ordered De­fense Minister Ezere W eizman to fly to Washington today to discuss U.S. financial aid and political commintments to Israel. 
The cabinet was to meet when Weizman returned, to review and act on the treaty, the radio said. 
In Washington, Carter con­gratulated Begin and Sadat, saying in a statement that "the peace which their peoples so clearly need and want is close to reality.'' 
Egypt's Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil expressed de­light when an Associated Press reporter called him in Cairo to tell him of the Cabinet decision. He termed the move "really a success for peace.'' 
Khalil, Egypt's main treaty negotiator, laughed heartily during the telephone interview and said: "I think they were reasonable to have accepted." 
In a separate interview, Egypt's second-ranking diplo­mat Burros Ghali said the 
[continued on page 10]
-·---­

Last issue before break 
Good Luck 


Irish 

\. 

News in brief 
Plane crashes intofactory,' 200people die 
TOKYO (AP) -A British-built Trident aircraft crashed into a factory on the western outskirts ofPeking yesterday, killing about 200 persons, Japan's Kyodo news service reported. The dispatc~ from the Chinese capital quoted witnesses as saying about a dozen crew members and passengers aboard were believed killed when the aircraft ploughed\ into an assembly plant near an airport at 8:52 a.m. (7:52 p.m. EST Tuesday) shortly after takeoff. The Soviet-made Antonov­type aircraft was en route from Canton to Shanghai when it went down. 
Oregon legislature wants to ban disposable diapers 
SALEM, Ore. (AP) -The state that banned pull tabs and aerosols now wants to do away with disposable diapers and plastic milk bottles. There are also bills before the 1979 Oregon Legislature to ban the use of plastic meat wrappings and single-serving size packets of ketchup and-mustard. Some legislators would like to extend the ban to plastic soft drink bottles. State Rep. Mary Burrows of Eugene, sponsor of the bill to ban throw away baby diapers, said she wants to prohibit the use of disposable diapers in Oregon because they are not biodegradable and it's against Oregon law to dump untreated solid waste in landfills. 
Israeli authorities close airportfor Carter 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Carter's departure from Jerusalem this week did not go like clockwork. Israeli authorities went on the assumption the president was leaving as originally scheduled at 3:30 p.m. Monday. Instead, he departed Tuesday afternoon. That didn't stop the Israeli government from shutting down their country's only international airport for four hours Monday, just in case Carter took to the skies on schedule. Perhaps the shutdown tie was not entirely wasted, however. Israeli troops and a band went through two dress rehearsals for the departure ceremony. 
Weather 

Partly sunny today. Highs near 30. Clear and cold at night, with lows 15 to 20. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow. Highs in the low 40s. Chance of showers Sunday. 
Mild but turning cooler Monday. Highs in the 60s over the weekend ... Cooling to the 40s and 50s Monday. Lows in the 30s and 40s. 

9:30 am, LEC1URE, "the notion of remembrance in the liturgy", by rabbi jules harlow, UB. LOUNGE 7 ,9,and 11 pm, FILM, "marquise of 0", ENGR. AUD. 7 pm, MASS, STANFORD HALL 
7 pm, EVENING PRAYER, lady chapel in sacred heart 8 pm, RECITAL, karen peeler, percussion, UTTLE THEATRE 
Friday March 16, 1979 
4~30 pm, REILLY LECTURE, "molecular channels and pumps in the living cells", by prof. charles stanford, 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
5 pm, MASS AND SUPPER, at the BUUA SHED 
7,9,11 pm, "MARQUISE OF 0", ENGR. AUD. 
8 pm, TRAVELOGUE, sb lion's club travel ftlm "constanti­nople-turkey" O'LAUGHUN AUD. 
Saturday March 17, 1979 
JEST, graduate managements admissions test, ENGR. AUD. 
6:30 pm, film, "ankur", MEM. UB. AUD. BREAK OFFICIALLY BEGINS 
Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 2 
Gordon announces 

Research projects draw-funds 
Notre Dame has accepted $450,190 in awards for the month of February to support individual faculty research pro­jects as well as innovative educational and service pro­grams, according to Dr. Robert 
E. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies. A wards for research totaled $385,589 and included: 
--$105,814 from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for development of parasisitic worms 1n the laboratory by Dr. Paul P. Weinstein, professor of biology. 
--$89,994 from the national. Science Foundation (NSF) for study on the dynamic stability of elastic-plastic solids by Dr. Law!:__ence_H.N. Lee, professor of -aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
--$50,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for study of alternatives for jet engine con­trol by Dr. Michael K. Sain, professor of electrical engineer­mg. 
$50,000 from the Ambrose and Gladys Bowyer Foundation for research in Lobund Laboratory and the Department of Microbiology br Dr. Morris Pollard, director o Lobund and 
chairman  and  professor  of  
microbiology.  
--$48,766  from  NSF  for  

studies on solid solubility of hydrocarbons in light liquid hydrocarbons by Dr. James P. Kohn and Kraemer D. Luks, professors of chemical engineer mg. 
--$20,690 from Deere and Co. Technical Center for studies of 

Dining halls close for break 
Resident halls will be secured  Sunday, March 25.  
during semester break. Access  The public cafeteria will be  
can be obtained to these halls  open for meals on a cash basis  
through one door only. All  during the break. The schedule  
other doors will be chain  is as follows:  
locked.  Sat. March 17--7:30 a.m.· 6:00  
If a student is staying during  p.m. 
the break, he should contact his  Sun. March 18--8:00 a.m. -6:00  
rector and obtain a key.  p.m. ..  
The North Dining Hall will  Mon. March 19 through Sat.  
close after the noon meal  March 24--7:30 a.m. -6:00p.m.  
tomorrow. Those students  Sun. March 25--8:00 a.m. · 6:00  
remaining for the dinner meal  p.m. 
will have their meal cards  Mon. March 26--Regular hours  
honored at the South Dining  
Hall. The South Dining Hall  
will close after the dinner meal  
tomorrow.  
Both dining halls will resume  
the regular meal schedule be­ 
ginning with the dinner meal on  
Observer lists  
office hours  
The Observer office will be  
staffed by Ms. Ceil Popovich on  
the following schedule: today:  
8:30a.m. to 4:30p.m.; tomor­ 
row: 9 a.m. to 12 noon; March  
17-25: closed; March 26: 12  
noon to 5:30 p.m.  
- 
,_The Observer_  
St. Patrick: Dave Fitzbrosh  
Leprechauns: johnny  
Smith, Margaret Fitzkruse  
Blarney Stones: Phil  
Caddey, Mike Shields  
Shamrocks: Mary Pat  
McEIIis, Patsy Campbell  
Shamrock Shake:  
Rosemary Mills  
Features Layout: Christy  
O'Stewart  
Rugby Team: Paul Barry  
Mullaney  
Snakes: Tom Pipp, Beth  
Willard, Pete McFadden  
Top O'The Morning Typist:  
Kim "Kiss Me I'm Irish"  
Convey  
Day Editor: Maribeth  
Moran  
The Observer [USPS 598 920] is  
published Monday through Friday ex­ 
cept during exam and vacation periods.  
The Observer is published by the  
students of Notre Dame. and Saint  
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be  
purchased for $20 per year [$10 per  
semester[ from The Observer. P.O. box  
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second  
class postage paid, Notre Dame. In­ 
diana 46556.  
The Observer is a member of the  
Associated Press. All reproduction  
rights are reserved.  

abrasion in wear-resistant steels by Dr. Thomas H. Kosel, assistant professor of metallur­gical engineering and materials science, and Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore, chairman and professor of metallurgical engineering and materials science. 
--$13,000 from NIH for a 
, fellowship awarded to Dr. Vishnu-Pnya Sneller for re­search in parasitology directed by Weinstein. 
--$7,125 from Hoffman­LaRoche, Inc. for studies in xylitol by Dr. Bernard S.J. Wostman, professor of micro­biology. 
--$200 from Sigma Xi, the Scientific Research Society of North America, for a grant-in­aid of research in biology by Dolores M. Dawis directed by Dr. Federick W. Goetz, Jr., assistant professor of biology. 
Notre Dame also received $18,600 from NSF for under­~raduate research participation m biology directed by Dr. Harvey A. Bender, prpfessor of biology, and $46,001 for service programs in the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, including $34,839 to the Center for Human Development di­rected by Fr. Vincent Dwyer, $10,887 for the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Litrugy directed by Fr. John Gallen, and $275 to the Notre Dame Institute for Clergy Education directed by Fr. Robert S. Pelton. 

----~­
The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 3 

Iranian -wotnen reject traditional chador 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) · Iranian women have agwn ripped off the veil and taken to the streets, shedding the long black robes of tradition and donning the contentious dress of liberation. 
Considered among the most westernized of Middle Eastern women, Iranian women now find themselves on a collision course with the new conserva­tive Islamic government of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 
And they ace not giving ground without a fi~ht. 
The immediate Issue, their dress, Moslem leaders want women to wear the traditional chador, head-to-ankle black robes and veil. 
The ultimate issue, the status of women in this male­dominated Persian Gulf nation. 
The dress furor has over· shadowed and left unresolved major issues in this revolution­torn country: resuming educa­tion, reducing unemployment, repairing the economy and 
• shaping new foreign pohcy. 
Amid hurled rocks and shouts of "prostitue," 15,000 women have been marching this week in Tehran to protest calls for mandatory wearing of the chador. Four "uncovered" women were stabbed during a march. 
Women civil servants in Western clothes were turned away from Government offices until they put on the ancient style dress which they consider a symbol of backwardness and enslavement. 
Ironically, in the closing days of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi's regime, many Wes­tern-thinking Iranian women defiantly wore the chador as they marched in the streets. It became a symbol of opposition. 
Today it is anathema to many. On Mond~y. under the protection of militia, 15,000 women poured into a soccer stadium to demand freedom of dress. They wore blue jeans, 
Western  clothes;  even  the  
chador.  
''When  shall  we  force  the  

men to throw away their suits and put on traditional sardari and aba (knee-length overcoat and robe)?", wrote Iranian newspaper columnist Janet Lazanan Shaghagi. 
"To veil or unveil," she said, "is an individual right to be jud~ed by a person:s own bd1efs and knowledge.'' 
The chador is only the most emotional symbol of women's issues in Iran. The new government also has dissolved a women's right to divorce, contest divorce and restrict her husband to one wife. 
Women insist that equalrights be part of any constitution and they demand a role in govern­ment, as they had under the Shah. 
"We want to be amply rewarded for our role in bring­ing down the hated Shah and the system,'' said one leftist femimst. 
Perhaps the women have been heard. Some religious leaders now say the chador should not be a mandatory but a voluntary form of dress. 
The women who are protest· ing today's restrictions made significant headway during the monarchy they helped to ovtr­throw. 
Iranaian women's liberation began in 1936 .when Reza Shah decreed the lifting of the veil. Reza, father of the deposed shah, also wanted women to be more active in public life and attempted to break their do­mestic chains. 
But it took 27 years for women to get the .right to vote and actually to hold public office. That was pact of the Shah's 1963 "white revolution" that tripped Moslem clergymen of vast land holdings and some 
secular power. 
The Family Protection Law of 1967 gave women protection against legal and social abuses by their husbands and officially ended the keeping of concu­bines. 
The government also spon­sored the $20-million-a-year Women's Organization of Iran which provided child care, taught women to read, gave legal aid and job training and helped with family planning. 
But Iranian women were not the first to be awakened and to take to the streets. Across the globe in Chile, it has been said that women often have out­paced their men in zeal and activism. 
Furious women helped bring down the Marxist government of Salvador Allende · so much so that leftist men complained that Christian Democrat and rightist men sent their women out to fight for them. 
Women planned and carried out truckers strikes and a great copper mine demonstration. The "empty pots campaign" was their handiwork. 
On Dec. 2, 1972, "The Day of the Women," 5,000 women grabbed empty pots and pans, flooded the streets of Santiago and raised a din to protest the high price of food. 
The Protesters primarily were middle-and upper-class women. 

This will be your last picture ofthe dome untzl after break, enjoy it( your break that is) fphoto by Dave Rumbach l 
... Title IX 
[continued from page 1] 
most athletic departments, HEW released proposed guide­lines to outline how institutions must comply with the law. 
One of the final actions of the convention was the passing of a resolution expressing the asso­ciation's position on the recent HEW Title IX policy interpreta· tion. 
''Obviously, it (the school) can choose to abide by the regula­tions,'' said Universiry of New Mexico President William E. Davis, "or ignore them and invite the dropping of the HEW equivalent to the atomic bomb. Gtven the impact of federal aid for needy students and substan­tial federal research grants and contracts, few institutions can afford to choose the role of defying the regulations." 
''When it comes down to jeopardizing a $6 million cancer 
============= research ~rant or a $12 million student atd program to go to war to save football and basket­
Airlines ball programs, there is little choice," he added.
•11 p t • g Davis, who was a member of 
S t f, 0 era tn the HEW Title IX task force, led 
by janet Rigaux 
· 

Contrary to a popular rumor, United Airlines in South Bend is still operating, according to a company spokesman. The rumor had circulated that United Airlines had cancelled all flights leaving from South Bend. • 
According to a United em­ployee, "We have not cancelled that many flights. There is absolutely no truth to the rumor that all of our flights have been cancelled. We have -cancelled one night flight from Chicago to South Bend and a few weekend flights from South Bend to Chicago." 
A fuel shortage has caused airlines across the nation to cancel a few of their flights. The flights being cancelled are those that will cause the least inconvenience to passengers, and usually are low volume flights. 
United Airlines personnel suggested that students flying out of South Bend this week should call the airport to make sure that their fli~ht is still scheduled. The airlme is trying to call everyone on a flight that has been cancelled, and is also trying ro reschedule those p~ople on the next available fltght. . 
If a flight has not already been cancelled, it will be run­ing as scheduled, the spokes­man added. 
the roundtable discussion on the subject and also gave some options for the institutions who wish to comply with the guide~ lines. 
One choice would be to decrease the emphasis on major football.and basketball, bring­ing them down to a level comparable to other meh's sports. The school could also eliminate revenue sports alto­gether, making them depen­dent on student fees, legislative appropriations, gifts, or general funds rather than ~ate receipts. 
Another alternative would be to keep the revenue sports and 
· eliminate all other male sports and transfer their budgets to the woman's pro~ram. At last resort, the institutions could keep men's sports at their current level and add the necessary dollars to the women's program to reach equality in spendins. · Just how the institutions are going to deal with the regula­~ions, .if they are put in~o effe~t m thetr present form, 1s a btg concern at athletic departments across the country, and espe­cially at big-time athletic schools like Notre Dame. Failure to ease guidelines in 
. regard to revenue producing sports could mean the end of competition in some spoi'ts for both men and women, accord­ing to Don Canham, athletic director at the University of Michigan. "What they've done is tell us 
to put all men's athletics into a tor at Northern Illinois Univer­pot and come up with a per sity, said he expects about a. 30 capita expenditure,'' Canham percent increase in thejr athle­satd. ''Then they say you have tic budget. NIU is one school to spend that much for the that had anticipated that foot­women. It just won't work." ball would not be exempted 
"We spent $1.5 million on but Bingham said he owuld lik~ football last year, but we netted a "phase-in period" before $5 million,' he added. "As schools would have to comply affluent as we ace in · Ann with the regulations. Arbor, we couldn't spend ano­Acc.ording to Mike Mullaney, ther $1. 5 million on women's athleuc director at Eastern athletics. If it would cause us Illinois Universiry, their school trouble, what about some other would be in !me with the institutions?'' regulations if football were 
Other schools are doing their exempted. With football, he best to try to create programs expects to spend at least $100 that are consistent with the more per woman athlete. 
guidelines. [continued on page 4]
Bob Bingham, athletic direc­

We'te Looking fot Outtageous Talent 2nd annual Gong Show sponsored by smc Social Commission Friday, march 30 9:30 -? (Gong show starts at 11:30) &----S2.00all beer· you can drink prizes SlOO.OO 1st to sign up your oct 75.00 2nd -call marte 4814 smc 50.00 3rd Debby 4833 smc  
Meet Someone New at THE RAMROD . free admission with ~.r ' . _. college ID -\\'<·~-"". ~' . Thursday Night:--­Pitchers only $1.50* dance floor * DJ Budd~ King* pool table every Fri 5 Sat night511 S. Mich St. (downtown) open till 3am.  

The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 4 
7.9on Richter scale 

Quake hits Mexico 
one was in Chipancingo, inland 
from Acapulco, and 10 were in 
the coastal resort town of 
Zihuatanejo, about 20 miles 
from the epicenter. The fatal­
ity, a 14-year-old girl, was hit 
by debris from a building in the 
capital. 

At the !hero-American 
University in southern Mexico 
City a three story administra­
tive and classroom building 
collapsed. It was vacant at the 
time. Police said some private 
homes collapsed. 

A bank building on Juarez Street in the heart of the ctty was badly damaged. Several floors of the building appeared to have collapsed. 
Many wmdows shattered and streets and sidewalks were 

MEXICO CITY (AP)-A major predawn earthquake and 18 aftershocks jolted vast areas of Mexico yesterday, killing one person and destroying build­mgs in the capital. The Red Cross said 32 Mexicans were injured in the quake that was felt from near rhe American border to the southern moun­tains. 
The Seisological Institute in Mexico City registered the tremor at 7.0 on the open-ended Richter scale and put the epi­center 198 miles southwest of the capital city, near the Pacific resort ofAcapulco. Aftershocks registering as high as 5 on the scale connnued for four hours. 
The U.S. National Earthquake Center in Golden, Colo., measured the quake at 
7. 9. That reading would make 
the quake the world's strongest About one hour after the =============================================================================== 
this year. main shock, a secondary tremor up.'' 
Power to two-thirds of the rumbled through the city, sway-Mrs. Annette Mulvihill, oJ capital city of 13 million was cut ing buildings and sending tour-Houston, Texas, said, 'Th1 for up to four hours. The ists pouring back into the plaster fell all around us. w.._ 
Carter describes US role 
subway system, which has its streets from their hotels. are thinking about going back own power grid, was stopped The city returned to normal hom;, today instead of tomor­for about 15 minutes. The by the morning rush hour. row. 

in Mideast settlement 
quake hit at 5:08 a.m. Traffic lights ceased working, The quake was felt as far WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­spent ot build two new air bases Water and· sewage lines creating traffic jams that lasted north as Monterrey, 100 miles dent Carter told a group of inside Israel to replace basesbroke, flooding houses in some into the afternoon. from the U.S. border, to Oaxaca Senate and House members bein~ given up to Egypt in theareas and turning tap water a Dale Wright, 54, of in the deep south. There were yesterday that an Egyptian-Is­Sinal, which is being returneddark brown. High-tension Westlake, Calif., said, "I have landslides on the Mexico City­raeli peace treaty will cost as part of the treaty.
power lines lay in snarls in the been in quakes in Los Angeles, Acapulco highway and traffic American taxpayers about $5
streets. but this is the worst I have ever was interrupted. It was unclear how Egypt
billion in additional aid to the
The Red Cross said 21 of the been in. I had to lean against The Richter scale is a meas­would use its share of the 
two nations, according to some
injured were in Mexico City, something to be able to stand ure of ground motion as re­military aid. Egyptian Presi­

who attended the president'scorded on seismographs. An dent Anwar Sadat has been
briefing.

earthquake of seven is consi­seeking large amounts of U.S.
Senate Republican Leader

dered a "major" earthquake military assistance to rebuild
People interested in a position 
capable of widespread heavy Howard Baker, R-Tenn., said, his forces, which are still de­
''It appeared that the financial
damage. An earthquake of pendent on Soviet equipmenteight 1s a "great" one capable commitment would be about a dating back to before Sadat
with next year's billion dollars a year for four
of tremendous damage. ordered thousands of Russian 
years. We are talking about military advisers out of hissomething in the range of four country.
to five billion dollars.'' 
Sen. Richard Stone, D-Fla.,

HUNGER COALITION Steelpro_fits 
It was understood that the told reporters outside the White proposed additional aid would
(Coordinator, Secretary, House that Egyptians had told
mclude about $4 billion in
rise in 1978 him Sadat is making plans to
military aid for ooth Israel and come to Washington as early asTreasurer, etc.) PITTSBURGH (AP)-U.S. Egypt, plus $1 billion in eco­next Thursday for a treatynomic assistance to Egypt to
Steel Corp., the nation's largest 

signing, if the Israeli Knessetfinance such things as tele­
steel producer, has announced 

approves the treaty terms.
Shouldcall8743or 288-3831 
its after-tax earnings bounced phones, roads and general de­Solarz sa4f military represen­
velopment.
back from a depressed $137.9 

tatives of Egypt and Israel were"I think it's worth it," Baker
sometime this week. million in 1977 to $242 million coming to Washington this
said. ''I think if this is a fairlast year. 
weekend to· work out details of~~~~ ~~~~~ But while all the company's estin,t!lte of cost it's a good the Israeli military withdrawalbuy.
lines were profitable in 1978, 

from Sinai.
I ---.....------------1 
Baker also said there was no
earnings in manufacturing re­

commitment by the United At the beginning of Carter's
mained depressed, U.S. Steel

I States to enter a defense treaty briefing to House and Senate
said in its annual report pre­

with Israel, and no commitment leaders, the president said thatI' RIVER CITY pared for release today. 
''The current rate of return to use U.S. forces to guarantee during low points of his peaceI I must be further improved if the that the two nations hve up tot mission he felt "lonely and the terms of the treaty. destitute" and afraid that he
corporation is to generate theI RECORDS I Pentagon sources said the $4 had embarassed not only him-

funds required to accelerate 

billion in military aid, to be .self but the United States as
I installation of the most modern 
spread over three or four years, well.
technology and thereby max­

I I imize productivity, minimize would be about equally diVided But he said public expres­I South Bend's Largest Record I energy usage, and provide steel between Israel and Egypt. sions of support both
from Those sources said most of Republicans and Democrats
to tpe American economy at theI and Tape Selection I lowest possible cost.'' the money to Israel would be helped keep him going. I Large expenditures are also 
required -to meet continuingI I environmental objectives, the report said. 

, ~.Title IX 
Since 1950, U.S. Steel hasI spent over $1 billion for envi­[continued from page 3J dore Hesburgh. "But the


$1.00 OFF 
ronmental improvements, with "As the law now reads," regulations set forth by the coupon noteworthy results. Mullaney said, "it is the most HEW go past the law. EitherI "U.S. Steel is committed to ridiculous thing I've ever the Congress will have to improving the environment, but read." change the law and make it
"$I..OO off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. 
1 

Now thru April II. Not good on cut-outs, imports or other when the economics of expen­Ex.actly what the regulations more specific, or we will have to sal~ jt~ms. Coupon must be presented before purchase is ditures under such programs reqmre has come under some go to the courts and decide 
make the 'output of the facilities discussion. ''Nobody can inter­
.runJ into cash register. what the law is.'' 
unprofitable, the alternative of pret the regulations at the Regardless of what HEW or abandoning those facilites and present time,'' said Ralph the courts decide, most college
/J:! eND-SMC check accepted for up to $20.00 over their products will be Floyd, athletic director at Indi­athletic directors and presi­·.,: : purchase amount.
I weighed.'' ana University. "We have not dents would agree that they
· '7'et7,000 albums and tapes in stock now! The .report noted that the deviated from our Title IX want to see women's sports· ·· : .why wait to choose from a small selection? I company spent $216 million for compliance report that we sent 
programs improve.
· River City Records probably has it in stock • 
environmental controls in 1978, to the HEW in 1976, and our John Toner, athletic director now. · 
but did not name specific feeling is that we are giving at the University of Connecti­facilities where environmental women a fair chance to develop cut, said, ''I honestly feel that equipment costs have threat­their sports program well.'' the gut reaction of all theRiver City Records 50970 U.S. 31 N ened earnings. Projects un­"We think our present policy colleges and universities is to finished at year's end will towards women's athletics is provide comparable programs
13 miles north ofcampus. Open 10 to 10, I 
require $322 million to com­consistent with the law,'' said for women within reasonable17davsaweek 277-4242 · ...a plete, the report said. Notre Dame President bounds."
Theo­
~-~-------~----­
.----------------------------------------------~---; 
The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 5 
McMullin accepts Philosophy post 
Fr. Ernan McMullin, professor ofphilosophy at Notr.e Dame, has been elected prest­dent of the Philosophy of Science Association, a national 
organization  of  scholars  and  
education  leaders.  He  will  
serve a rwo-year term.  

On leave at the University of Pittsburgh during the spring semester, McMullin has also lectured in recent weeks at S.:. Thomas More College, Saskatoon, Canada, the University of Calgary and at Brigham Young Univeristy. 

He is the co-author of a recent article, "Report on the Ideological and Theological Debate About Science." 
• 
Newly elected officers ofthe Notre Dame Big Brothers andBig Sisters are :ifront row) Sr. Anne Baettie, Lynn Grzesiak, Prof ]ames Daschbach. (back row) jim Martin, Bob Navarre, Steve Ledoux, and Dan· Monroe. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Volunteers still needed 
Big Brothers/Sisters nameofficers 
by Laura Lan'more Senior StaffReporter 

The Bi~ BrotherI Big Sister Organization of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has announc­ed the installation of new officers. They are: Jim Martin, president; Ttm Koch, 1st vice president; Lynn Gazesiak, 2nd vice president; Steve Ledoux, treasurer; Bob Navarre, secre­tary. Elected in February, they took office March 1. 
The ND/SMC membership in the organization presently num­bers 65, of which about a dozen are Big Sisters. There are still at least 300 children in the South Bend/Mishawaka area who need a big brother or sister to ''share in their growth and help them expertence the world," stated Koch. These youngsters, aged 7 to 17, are without at least one of their parents and need and want an adult friend. 
Koch stressed that students may sign up after break for a child. If the student signs up after April 1, he will be ~uaran­teed a little brother or stster.for the beginning of next year. 
Koch explained that it would be too late after the date to have time to form a meaningful relationship before the sumer vacation. 
Registering now for next year enables one to ~;omplete all registration, interview, and orientation requirements. This facilitates an immediate assign­ment next fall, he added. 
Orientation takes place at the local St. Joseph Big Brother/ Big Sister organization head­9uarters. The local organiza­tiOn is made up primarily of professional men and women in the South Bend area. 
Upcoming events for the group include a road rally March 25, a trip to Chicago for the Cubs/Expo baseball game April 21, and a picnic at the dunes, tentatively scheduled for April 28. Members are also eligible for discounts on tickets for the Monte Carlo Interna­tional Circus at the ACC March 30-31. 
The present organization is currently second on the Volun­teer Services list of members. This large increase in member­ship is primarily a result of the efforts of Dan Monroe, outgo­ing president, and Daschbach. 
The original Big Brother/Big Sisters at Notre Dame began in the mid 1960's as a very strong, active organization, but lost interest when the initial mem­bers graduated. 
Koch cited lack of publicity as the group's sin~le largest pro­blem in attacung new mem­bers. He invited anyone inter­ested to contact one of the officers as soon as possible. "It is an extremely rewarding ex­perirmce," he said. "1 feel 1 learn as much from it, if not m~e. than my little brother." 
. 

The organization is currently seeking a new faculty advisor. The present advisor , Jim Daschbach, professor of aero­space and mechanical engineer­ing, will be on sabbatical next year. Anyone interested in applying for the position should see one of the officers. He or she should preferably have past experience with the Big Brother group or a keen interest in learning more about the organ­ization, according to Koch. 
Fri. April20 Mon. March 26 6:00pm Stepan Center 
Limit 6 Tickets per person 
Price $10.00 $8.50 
Tickets go on sale Tuesday March 27, 
9:00am at Student Union Box Office Also available at ACC Gate 10 9:00-5:00 




The Observer 

I 
I 
[. I 
I 
\. 

. 
\ 
GO THIS IJNIOIJE ..SAY BIJll" ATHLOI( SHIRT(IJSTOM·PRINTED WITH THE NAME OF YOIJR S(HOOL FOR ONLY $5.50. 
Bull your way through college in style! With a genuine Schlitz Malt Liquor bull shirt. Featuring our Schlitz Malt Liquor bull with royal blue 3/41ength sleeves and white shirt body. It's made of 70% cotton and 30% polyester. And it's 100% you, because we custom-print the name of your school right on the front. 
It's the shirt you'll wear proudly all year long. For jogging, class, team sports and 
getting together with friends for a round of Schlitz Malt Liquor. After all, if you're 
goi·ng to "SAY BULL" across your chest, you might as well start backing it up. 
~--------------------------~
MAILTOtSAY BUll.. JERSEYOFFER P.O.BOX919J.ST.PAUL.MINNESOTA 55191 
Please send--Schlitz Malt Liquor "SAY BULL" College Name Athletic Jersey(s) 
(quanttty) 
@ $5.50 each, including College Name Personalization, postage and handling. S1zes available: . S small (34-36) M medium (38-40) L large (42-44) XL extra-large (46) 

Enclosed is $. ___check or money order payable to "SAY BULL" Jersey Offer. Name__________ 
Address-----------------------­CitY·----------State_______ZiP•-----­
Offer void where prohibited by law. Allow 4to6 weeks for shipment. Offer expires May 31. 1979. 
SC:HLITZ 
MALT LIOIJOR. 
DON.T SAY BEER. SAYBIJll! 

~-----·---------------------· 
I I I I
1 
1 
I I 
:.. 

TOYOUR STUDENT BODY.
,.....---· . . . . . ""·~-..·-<... ·" 
~""~·"'"'.···· ~:~,,~~' 
-~-~.......--. 
.-~>li.
. . 
...· 

Sign·upFor
Swn111er 
Sessions! 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO offers vou courses at either the Water Tower Campus. K2(\ North Mirh1'.:13n nr th"• Li~k~· Shnr~ c~mpus at 6525 North Sheridan. Here are the session datt.>s · 
FIRST SESSION Mav 21 -Jun• 29 
Biology. Chemistry and Phvsks 
May 29-Jun• 28 
All othor offorings 
EVENING SESSION 
May 21 -July II SECOND SESSION July 2 -Aug"st 3 

for further detallli complete coupon bt>lou.o and mall today! 
Toe LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
···------------------------------­
Summ~Pr Sf'ssions 820 North MichiQan. ChicaQo. Illinois 6061 I TELEPHONf, {31Z)670·SOII 
Nem• 
Addrns 
City s•••• Zip 

Coll•g~ now aru•ndln!l 
· W• •tr• an .,qual nppurrunllu f'dun11m .. mplu~·••r 
' "·;d,, 'rr"· nf <urn mer «'ssion fulkredil 
-----------------------------------1 
SAY BUll! 
I I I I I I I I 
I 

Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 6 
Mileage standards harn1 automakers 
even after adjustment for infla­tion. It's three times what it cost to put a man on the moon, and it's more than the com­
prove far more costly than the bines  profit  of all  American  
moon-landing program and still co~porations  in  1975,"  Terry 
fail to save precious fuel. satd.  .  

He testified at a hearing of the House Commerce subcom­mittee on energy. A day earlier, administration wit­nesses indicated they will review the fuel economy rules. 
Terry and other industry spokesman did not quarrel so much with the overall goal of reaching the 27. 5 mgp standard by 1985. Rather, they objected to the transportation Depart­ment's "fron~-loading" of the program. As now written, the rules require improvements of 2 mpg in each of the first three years, then 1 mpg and 1/2 mpg. 
''The standards should in­crease by a constant amount each year on a straight-line basis to 1985," said Terry, adding the front-loaded stan­dards will add seriously to inflation at a time when the need is most urgent to hold prices down. 
But Clarence Ditlow, director of the Center for Auto Safety, the consumer group founded by Ralph Nader, took issue with the automakers. "Front load­ing of the standards is particu­larly important because of the proJected fuel shortages for 1980 and 1981," he said . 
Terry said a Chase Manhattan Bank study showed that using the front-loaded standards ''will raise our nation's unemployment by 1 percent by 1984" and could ''negatively affect out balance of trade by $5 billion" by forcing the industry to sell more imported cars. 
The study also indicated a "cumulative loss of $220 billion in our gross national product between 1980 and 1990," Terry said. "For that heavy cost, the study estimates that the coun­try will reduce its annual oil usage at most by three-tenths of 1 percent a year.'' 
Peeler presents recital tonight 
Karen Peeler will present a percussion recital in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's tonight at.8/.m. She will be accompa­nie by Donna Harding, pianist. 
Her program will include selections from Thomas Gauger, John Beck, Shelley Elias, J.S. Bach and William Harmon, Jr. 
The public is invited to attend the recitaL . 
Peeler, a senior from Annapolis, MD, is studying for a bachelor of music 'degree in music education. She is a member of the Notre Dame Marching and Varsity Bands. 
United Parcel Service 
Part Time Openings 
$5.68 per hour 
apply Mon. March 19 11:30 
a.m.-1:30 p.m. 
IUSB-1700 Mishawaka Blvd. Administration Bldg: Rrn. 132 
· Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Disgrun­tled automakers told Congress yesterday that impending gaso­line mileage standards could 
At issue are the Transporta­tion Department's require­ments for gradually doubling the fuel economy of vehicles, from an average of less than 14 miles per gallon in 1974 to 27.5 mpg by 1985. 
''To accomplish all this,'' testified S. L. Terry, Chrysler's vice president for consumer affairs, the American automo­bile industry will invest nearly $80 billion in new plants, tools and equipment. 
''That's more than double the amount the industry spent in the previous eight years, 
·-···­
·~ 
_,.y.-!6+ 
..·­~ 
._,.., 
-· 
.;<¥#"... 
··­


Editorials 
Thursday, March 1S, 1979 -page 7 
P. 0. Box Q 
Concerning the 
Nestle boycott 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to respond to the letter concerning the Nestle boycott. 
In the first place, as the editor's note pointed out, 72% of the students that voted advocated the removal of all Nestle products from the dining halls. This does represent a majority of the student body. 
Secondly, the referendum was undertaken by the Hunger Coalition not as a threat to the free market system, but as a means to show disapproval of Nestle's infant formula market­ing practices. 
Moreover, it is unquestion­able that individuals should be able to chose what they con­sume and this is exactly the reason for the referendum and the reason it passed by such a high majority. A student entering the cafeteria does not have a choice as to the company making the food he or she consumes. 72% of the voting student body do not want to consume Nestle products in the dining halls. The other 29% will simply have to make do with another brand or, as suggested in the letter, pur­chase Nestle products from South Bend. 
Boycotting is one way to work within the free market system for moral or ethical change. In addition, it is up to the 10divi­dual within the free market system to make him or herself aware of the various practices of companies within the sys­tem. 
The Nestle boycott is not an "altruistic 'save the world' " action by the Hunger Coalition, the National Council of Churches, the World Health Organization, or any of the many groups endors10g it. I can only hope that Mr. Kenny and others of his mind set have not truly educated themselves on the issue. 
MariaGarvy 
SMC elections 
draw praise 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to take this opportunity _to commend t.he entire student body at Samt Mary's College on the great success of their student body president elections. M.any polished facettes are reqUired to make any event shine and the recent election at St. Mary's was a brilliant example. 
The · · expertise of the 
election commissioners is to be 
highly extolled. Their con­
tinuously helpful guidelines en­
abled each ticket to thoroughly 
understand and follow cam­
paign regulations. Similarly, 
the attitude of the \'resent 
administration was posittve and 
consistent. They expressed 
their opinions about the elec­
tion and the candidates openly 
and honestly. 

The true praise and honor, however, is unquestionably due to the Saint Mary's student body. Their clear concept of the real needs and problems of Saint Mary's was evidenced throughout campaign week. A case 10 point was the open forum; not only did the students' questions drive to the core of the differences between the two tickets, but their con­cerns outlined the issues essen­tial to the future ofSaint Mary's and her student government. The ceaseless efforts of the student body to comprehend the philosophy of the tickets and to perceive the overall effect each platform would have on the entire St. Mary's community insured that ma­ture and unbiased decisions were reached by all. 
A campaign and election handled with such decorum, integrity and enthusiasm is a great tribute to Saint Mary's and her student body. Thus, triumphant is our illusion of Saint Mary's---the finest women's college in the nation. 
M.E.Maccio 
Well-intentioned but misguided 
Dear Editor: 

I cannot any longer let the well-intentioned but obviously misguided heresy of Father Bill Toohey go on unchallenged. Several ttmes I have repressed almost overwhelmin~ urges to answer some of his 'articles," but the one on ''Prayer: The Essence and the Danser'' (The Observer, March 5) ts so poi­sonous that I write in hopes of removing at least the worst of this from the minds of our students. 
I refer particularly to the paragraph: 
Have you ever thought of this? If tN: enemies of Jesus had been men of prayer, Jesus' request to be spared crucifixion would have been answered! The Father wanted His Son to be loved; but leaving men free, He took the risk they wouldn't permit His Spirit into their lives, which would have guided them to spare His Son. . 
This paragraph is blatantly false: 
"The Father," Yahweh, doesn't take any "risks" (Father Toohey's connotation). 
Even if the enemies of esus had been men of prayer,~ Yah­weh would have found another way to dupe Satan into putting Jesus to death, r.ublicly, and consequently glorified by phys­ically proving the existence of another life, and set above all other creatures. 
In order to ultimately smash the Kingdom of Satan, Yahweh used a part ofHimself. In order to set men free, this was the price. This was the will of Yahweh, and why He gave 
Jesus to the world. ·Jesus had 
to be crucified in order to be 
glorified. 
I almost smiled when I read that Father Toohey said that Yahweh took a "risk." "There are no surprises to Yahweh or "risks" taken by Yahweh, Father Toohey notwithstand­ing." To go back to your first question, Father Toohey: "Have you ever thought of this?" Answer: No, Father, I haven't, and I'm not very likely to think about it again. I hope you don't, either. 
G.L. Curme Department ofEconomics 

Women needed to eliminate sexisJll 
Dear Editor: 
Mary Hawley tells it like it is! ('Deplorable Social Conditions,' March 6, 1979.) 
Hatred of women is an inveterate disease of patriachal society, supported and encouraged by altogether too 
many structures of church and state. Its sickening mani­festations at Notre Dame in both its 'respectable' and not so 'respectable' forms, is neither new nor particulary virulent. Rather it is old, deep-rooted and largely unnoticed by most males, because it serves their purposes, flatters their vanity and, on occasion, permits them expressions of rage against their own self-imprisonment. 
As a community, we shall have to struggle very hard indeed if we are to overcome the open and hidden sexism that undermines and harms us all. The usual male excuses for keeping women second-class posttions will hav~ to be ruth­lessly exposed an<yeRlacedby a new candor that allows for human development and mutual growth. This is a challenge to both men and women to speak honsestly and to act courageously. 
Restricting the admission of women is a blatant form of sexism masking latent fears and bolstered by cheap excuses. 
However, not only does Notre Dame need more women, it needs women who are conscious of being oppressed and determined to expose and right the concrete wrongs that exist here. Unfortunately the 
Mary Hawleys are few! the same time, the University also wishes to recognize and 
Wzlliam G. Storey 

affirm the lon~-standing and 
Professor ofTheology close ties that extst between the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
Equal chance The above is the new deig!bi­lity policy that will go into effect for the 198.0:81 sc~ool year and as a parttctpant 10 the 1979
for cheerleaders 

cheerleading tryouts I find this very alarmmg. One of the 
Dear Editor: 

reasons I, and probably many others, chose Saint Mary's overThe current regulation go­other women's colleges was itsverning the composition of the affiliation with Notre Dame. I
Notre Dame Cheerleading 

respect and hold close to mySquad reads as follows: The 
heart everything that theNotre Dame Cheerleading 
University stands for, so itSquad for the 1979-80 school disturbs me to think that who­year will consist of six male ever initiated this change incheerleaders, six female cheer­eligibility feels that a Saintleaders, and one leprechaun. 
Mary's woman cannot truly'At least one female from Notre represent the University ofDame and at least one female Notre Dame.
from Saint Mary'S College must un­
Many questions remainbe among the six female cheer­answered in my mind. If theleaders. There will also be a University wishes to affirm theminimum of one black cheerlea­long-standing and close tiesder--male or female. 
that exist between ND and SMC The new regulation will read why do they require that 4 out as follows: The Notre Dame of 6 female cheerleaders comeCheerleading Squad for the from ND? Why didn't they1980-81 school year will consist require an even 3-3? Or better of six male cheerleaders, six yet, why do there have to befemale cheerleaders, and one requirements of this son atleprechaun. A majority of the alH Where I come from,female members of the Cheer­everyonegoes into tryouts withleading Squad must be from an equal chance. Wouldn't weNotre Dame. There will also be all fed better ifND had the best a minimum of one black stu­
chee:leaders, regardless of 
dent--male or female. 

which side of 31 we live on, orThe University intends to affirm the color of our skin?
through this new policy that the Cheerleaders do represent the 
Name Withheld
University of Notre Dame. At 

DOOIISBUBY 
Gl3'ftu~~ 
ACOJiDINSLY, VIE7NA/r1 
CALLS UffJ/7HI5 ctlii­C/1.. 70 f:INJEMN 7HIE RJ.il.JNING-/XXi A6­

fii?.£!!50RS! 
I 
SOR/?Y, PHR£l), 'THE {)t.J'A vu /5 KILL/fo¥3 US. 
""' 

either Institution, The news is EDITORIAL BOARD reported as accurately and as objectively Edi~or-in-Chief .. ____ ... __ .Tony Pace News Editor .......... _ . Diane Wilson 
_The Observer_ of 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor._ ...... Steve Odland Sports Editor ...... _..... Ray 0 'Bnen opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor. __ ... _. john Calculi Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 Board. Commemaries, opinions and Executive Editor ... _ . _Barb Langhen_'(ls Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chn~ftian 
The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ...... -Rosenrary Mil. s per published by students of t.he Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor ........... _ Phil Caclf_e) Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevtn University of Notre Dame and Samt bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Editor_ . ____ FJ/en Butidy Business Manager .. _..... john Tucker 
Mary's College.-It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor ............. _Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ........ _ . _.. Mike Lewis 
Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 8 
Features 
LE1TERS TOA LONELYGOD 
A Theology of Whimsy 
Fr. Robert Griffin 
Jeannie once said: "Ifyou could ask God one question, and only one question, knowing that He would give you an answer, what question would you ask God? " 
I, wanting to surprise with the whimsy of my curioustty, immediately replied: ''I would ask God: how old are You?'' ] eannie laughed, because she thought it would be fun to ask God His age, like some small child wanting to know the truth about his grandfather's longevity. It struck me, however, that while it wouldn't embarrass God to admit that He is both ancient and eternally young, His answer would have to be expressed in poetic meta­phors. Poetry is the only language that the Deity could use with a dunce, since theology would seem unkind and metaphysics would _prove a bore. 
Questioning God about His birth date really seems quite frivolous, like askin~ Him: •'What time is it, right now, m heaven?" I have no watch I can set at heaven's hour, no train to catch that will stop at celestial sta­tions. When I'm needed as a fuest for the Supper of the Lamb, I wil be sent for. I know I will be home at the end of the day, whether the sunset comes early or late. 
Faith is not just a game that fools play, as foolish as my question may seem. Faith, reachmg toward the mystery of a God always present, never seen, loves to express itself in a theology of whimsy, a kind of Mother Goose of God's life: through the Looking Glass, down the Yellow Brick Road, to a Gingerbread House, guard­ed by unicorns with aquamarine eyes. 
Only, in Israel's tradition, the Apocalypse is not in nursey rhymes, but in jewelled cities and glassy seas. Whimsy is what you have when you don't see visions; silliness is what you are left with when you are a fool instead of a saint. 
Faith, then, plays its ~ames and writes its poetry; but tts serious moments have nothing to do with the shape of a donkey's ear or the chambers of a seashell where you can hear the roaring of the sea, though, there is a whimsy in the exaggerated sizes and colors of creation that make you think God must have the imagina­tion of a toymaker elf. 
When I look at the stars or the wings of a bluebird, I don't need faith to make me worshipfut Catechisms are superfluous when I see the perfection of an urchin's fist. Creeds are confirmed when I hear or smell the sweetness of a woodland scene where cotton tails are sighted as they disappear under shrubs that will become fir trees. An infinite variety of things, from fin to forsythia, from 
surgeons to sandpipers, that dance, dazzle, whirr, whistle, or in other ways , charm me, bring me to the reverence of a prayer to the Craftsman who tossed off the genesis of the universe 
as easily as though it were a hobby. 
It is the sight of a body decaying with 
sickness or ase that tests my faith. Try 
tracing the tmage of God in a face 
where disease makes it difficult even 
to find the image of a human being. Be 
present at the loneliness of the Most 
Senior Citizen; look at the tears 
trickling down the cheeks that nobody 
remembers to kiss. Feel the helpless­
ness in old bodies that have no living 
soul to offer them love, like the old 
lady who sits hugging a doll because 
she has nothing else to put her arms 
around. As you consider the sadness, 
wonder if the scene is watched by the 
same eye that notes the fall of 
sparrows. 
Last evening, I listened to /oung 
men considering the priesthoo as a 
vocation talk of the need of having 
faith. I thought: it's not that they need 
to have faith; it's that they need faith 
to have them. Faith is not a mood of 
the mind arrived at after you've sifted 
out opinions. Faith is an environment 
that wraps around you like air; it is a 
conviction that the heart lives with, 
that gives the mind peace. 
Such a faith is not a ~arne we play 
with God; but it is a kind of divine mischief that He springs on us. After our experiences of love, disappoint­ment, and failure; after our sm, our grief, and the first laughter that follows grief; out of ten thousand heartbreaks and the folly that makes us clowns; after we have strutted with poml> and circumstance that cheer and i decetve us; after the cross, but before· we have earned the crown; at a moment that eludes our attention, which we can never, ever, pinpoint: we wake up one morning with the awareness that our hopes have come of age, and that we are Christians who authentically believe. We have faith that owns us like a landlord. After faith, all the evidence bears God's thumbprint; and it is God's blessed trick, though we ran after Him as though we forgot He would ever run toward us; and we know that He has surrounded us with an ambience of mystery. 

IfI could ask God only one question, I would ask about His age, to please ] eannie. He might answer that His birth dates from a never-ending now, and I really wouldn't understand what He meant. If I asked Him about the beginning of faith, He might tell me that faith begins at the point where His life touches my life, as He gifts me with grace. That would be a tough answer too, if no funher questions were allowed. 


·~---..,-----------·---­


The Observer -Features Thursday,March 15, 1979-page9 
Meeting Last 
. .. 
Saint Mary'S 
The-Board of Directors of the Saint Mary's College Alumnae Association mer this weekend at their artnual Spring ~ssembly. The purpose of the conventton was to evaluate the pro· grams sponsored by the Alumnae Association this term, analyze the effecti.veness of the recently enacted committee system, and elect new officers to the Board of Directors. Pamela Smith Malone, President .9f the SMC Alumnae Associaton fqJ:.~M 1976·1979 term, described the ga:ther~. ing as ·:a uni9ue meeting, wh()se purpose 1s to tte up loose end$ oo proJects and ro evaluate the strllc..tur.e ..... of the committee system." · · 
The committee system . 
President Pamela Smith ~t~!~·.········~~·~~hl=bt~5~~~
speaks is composed of six ·~>Ul.!ln:•m.~.,\l:;l<;;o 
under the direction of the Abitnl~e: ?·i~·:~~* #YIIfl9!~ 
Board of Directors compri~dor.ltwt:JVe········~
Board members from · · · 
geographical regions 
graduating classes. 
Directors, which i$ rt-rn...~ 
SMC Boar<l of t<.ell•ents 
dent. ia the nouc.,t-ftlaJtll'i 
Alumnae As~•ociatio,rt. 
directS and aoJlm·v~s 
the .\lumnae 
sion'8 made by the six 
the SMC campus, 
Director Diane Smith 
staff administer the 
programs formulated by .· • ·c»tnmit 
tees. The six committees · 
Continuing Educations, 
~dons, Student Alumnae, _ ..~ ........ mon. · One of the most aetive and 
Black Cultural Arts •
The BenJamin Hooks Interview 
(continued from page B] 
Walton: What about the Brian Weber case. Is it bigger than Bakke? Hooks: Yes. The Bakke case was concerned only with professional schools. The Weber case concerns the entire job area, the right of blacks to job openings in all areas. We have documented history that blacks down the~e. in, I believe it is Gramercy, ~U!Siana, had unequal job opportun­Ity and were subject to unfair labor practices. Blacks had to belong to separate locals, carry special employ­ment cards and so forth. This was also wi~espread around the country. If this suu goes th.rough we ~ould experience a backlash m affirmative action such as the Sears case. ' Walton: What about the Sears case would you elaborate a bit? ' Hooks:. S.ea~s is s~ying that if they have d1scnmmated m the past, it was because the government had created the work force. They are trying to ~et o~t ?f . the respon_sibility of havmg dJscnmmated agamst minorities. 
They also say that the government has now created so many rules and regulations to comply with. There are rules about hiring minorities and women, and now there are rules against forcing someone to retire at 65 locking white males into jobs. ' 
Sears maintains that it is impossible to comply with all regulations, and ~ants the g~vernment to stop enforc­mg affirmative action rules until a clearer set of regulations is worked out. Walton: Is Sears doing this to get out of affirmative action? Hooks: I'm not sure, I can't make a judgement at this point. Walton: What is the financial situa­tion of the NAACP? Hooks: We art/·retry solid, although last year w~ ha a deficit of approxi­mately 500,000 thousand dollars. Walton: Why have contributions declined? Hooks: They have not declined. Last yea: we raised more money than dunng any other year in the history of the NAACP. It just costs more to run ~n ~rganization. We're fighting mflatwn, and we have other new 
expenses. 
committees ·of the .. systefli ..·~$ ... the Continuing Education Committe~. The committee is funded by the coll~ge to send faculty and admini~trative members to the sixty~tWo SMC alumnae dubs across the 
including 13,000 ·· · · · · presenting ea·1uca~uon~u 
$Ucc~~s~tuiJiyJ:® 

For example, we now have so many cases, with so much information that every thing must be handled by computers. We have to pay for the computers, and then you have to hire experts to interpret the printout and data. All these kinds of costs add up. We're co~stantly trying to find new ways to ra1se money. . Walton: Has whtte liberal apathy hun? 
Hooks: Yes, we're suffering from a lack of interest, money, attention and talent that had come from many white people. But, black ,People should be able to support thts organization. There are 25 million blacks in this country, and we should be able to 
~su~port the NAACP and other organi­zations. Walton: Are blacks that have 'made it' helping out? Hooks: Yes. We've found that this trend is increasing. We have a good future. · Walton: Is there a conservative backlash, and will it hurt in the future? Hooks: Yes, very definitely. There is a definite mood in this country away from the Judeo-Christian ethic of sharing. People are now coming to the attitude of, I've got mine, you try and get yours. No one is as willing to heJ.p ' a deprived person or group. That ts why things like Proposition 13 and the upcoming constitutional convention are bad for blacks. Social Welfare has to be preserved. Also in times of conservativism, the nuts tend to like to get out their Swastikas and bedsheets. 
As long as we are aware of these situations, however, we can deal with them. Walton: There is a move to call for a constitutional amendment on balanc­ing the budget. Much social welfare would be cut. If this goes through, how will it affect blacks? Hooks: We are opposed to this amendment. We are fighting it at the state legislative level. We are not sure that social welfare will be cut, but there are no parameters for this convention, no precedents. Se we are fighting it at the state level, trying to keep the ratification from going through. But we appear to be losing. 
managemeht. . .·.· ..· .· .. , 
The Stt~dent Al~hae committee may be described as alink between the present SMC studen~ body and their counterparts of the past. This commit· tee is imponam to the bo!IJ·d because 'it 
gives the alumnae'an ··. · · ·to getto know .fhe s.:u.;tf.J.te·.0.1~s vvhile 
· 
. States are ~atifying it left and right, wtt~ou.t knowmg what they are doing. 
It ts mtroduced in the morning and ratified in the afternoon. If the conve?tion .does happen, we will have to watt until we see what exactly will be the ramifications for black people and then deal with them. ' 
Walton:  Do whites feel  that blacks  
have  too  much?  Got  too  much  too  
soon?  

Hooks: Personally, I think so. The latest Harris Poll shows differently but I would rather rely on the poll of ~ few years ago that showed that whites felt that blacks had received enough special treatment. Walton: How does the NAACP cope with this attitude? Hooks: We don't worry about it. It has always existed. Whitesfelt we had ~oo much in 1909, 1929, 1959, and now m 1979. It's nothing new. We just keep doing what we have been all along. 
"Ourgoarforalltime is to complete the un_finished task o_f makingdemocracy work.foreveryone." 
Walton: The 80's portend great social 
unrest. While black gains have been 
made, nothing really changed for many blacks. Will the 80's be another 60's because of continued blight? Hooks: First of all, I think that's wrong. All blacks have benefited in some way. We now have an open society in which, technically, all doors are open. This is due to reforms. 20 years ago, there were no hot lunches Headstan, or subsidized housing. ' There was no social welfare. In 1950 a boy that lived on the West side 'of Chicago could not look forward to living in the South, or to going to the Univesity of Mississippi if he wanted 

-KitBernardi 
' 

seniors to become aware of the Alumnae Association and the work it does." 
The services the SMC-Alumnae Assodaton provides for graduates i~cJ.ude.. aid in ho~sing and job opportu· ntnes, thus movmg the alumnae more in the di~ection of involvement in job oppg.,rturucy. ..·· .. Wheq asked about their reaction to 
. . . . 'recepti members 
to. All doors are now open at least technically. What we have t~ do now is ma~e ~ure that they remain open, and thts ts what we are doing. Walton: In conclusion is the NAACP still a viable organization? Hooks: Yes, of course. Walton: Could you elaborate? Hooks: Of course we are viable. I defy anyone to say that they have done more, or are doing more than the NAACP. A lot of people will sit around and say that we are not doing anything, and use this as an excuse to remain stagnant. If we are not doing enough to satisfy someone, NAACP, ~U~H Urban League, any other organ· 1zat1on, then people should get up and do something themselves, or help us. That is something I give the young people of the 60's credit for. They thought that we wee too slow, so they went and started their own organiza­tions. That was good. We challenge anyone who would criticize us to do that today. Yes, we are viable very viable and moving onward. ' Walton: Looking into the near and 
distant future, what are the goals and objectives of the NAACP? Do people care anymore? Hooks: Our goal for all time is to complete the unfinished task of makmg democracy work for everyone. People still care. A lot of zeal has been lost, but the concern is still there. We just have to move the concern from the passive to the active. A lot of people don't think that they can help any­!'llore. But there is plenty to do. Even tf you're not .out ~orking, or marching, there are still thmgs you can do like vote. 
This year we lost Ed Brooke, our only black senator. We also lost several other officials that have been sympathetic to our cause. We lost both black lieutenant governors. If people will vote for and with us, and as long as there are injustices the NAACP will be there to fight th~m. Walton: Dr. f:Iooks, thank you very much fo~ your ttme. I really appreciate you talkmg to me. Hooks: Thank you. It was an honor and a pleasure to come to Notre Dame and to be a part of your festival. ' 
~ 
l 
l 


---~~--------··--.---~----­
r-·' 
I 
I I The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1979-page 10 
~ 
r I 
Gas shortages hit independent service stations the hardest 

NEW YORK (AP)-If you buy gasoline at a service station whose sign doesn't carry the name o~ one of the big oil compantes, you may have trouble filling your tank. The small distributors that supply independent qealers are havtng more trouble meeting demand than the industry giants. 
The independent refiners and distributors say they've been caught in the middle because the government--at the behest of the large oil companies-­changed the rules in the middle of the game. 
''There are a lot of indepen­dents now--like we are--that are severeiy shaken," said Ash Gockel, executive vice presi­dent of Kerr-McGee Corp., the Oklahoma City-based energy conglomerate that sells gaso­line in the central part of the nation. 


''There's no need 
to panic.
All vou heard 
was aPlum being
shoton courtfive:· 
Head proudly introduces the incredible Plum. Further evidence that racquetball will never become stodgy. 
The Plum sounds like it looks and 
looks like it sounds. . Loud. Lively. Bright. Explosive.So you see it fast. You hear it fast. And the Plum's bounce is accurate. 
So you can react decisively ... 
confidently. From the moment the 
first serve explodes off the wall. 
When the folks from the surround­ing courts come over to see what's going on, you can simply explain that you're detonating a Plum. 
WE PLANNED IT THAT WAY. 
Head 

Want a Head raquetball poster? 
Just clip this ad and present it to your nearby Head dealer. 
"Our volume is off and therefore our distributors' or jobbers' volume will be off and then their dealers' supply will 
be off ... The  same  effect goes  
down the line."  
Kerr-McGee  is  selling  its  

dealers 85 percent of the amount of gasoline they got last year. But fuel demand is up more than 3 percent in the past year. Most of the major oil companies are giving dealers the same amount they got last year, but a few have cut back to 90 percent. Some independents are down as low as 50 percent. 
The reason, according to the smaller companies, is that ther. aren't getting as much crude otl or gasoline from their major suppliers--the big companies-· as before the rules change. 
The Department of Energy last month changed its rules on gasoline allocation, telling com­
panies they could base the 
percentage they sell dealers on last year's levels rather than on 1972levels, which had been the previous standard. The 1972 level had been used as a base because that was the last full year before the Arab oil embar­go upset supply patterns. 
Large oil companies asked for the new base, saying it would more accurately reflect recent market conditions. But the smaller companies are upset about the timing. "The new base/eriod really caught us at a ba time," said an executive who didn't want to be identi­fied. 
That's because March is the first month it affected, and the companies say March 1978 was .,j a bad month to base allocations on. Gasoline was very plentiful in January and February of 1978, and most buyers of wholesale gasoline cut pur­chases in March 1978. 
Dick Brehme, president of Lerner Oil Co., which runs 120 gas stations in California, says his company's suppliers have cut back to 75 to 95 percent of last year's levels. So Lerner stations, selling less gasoline, have raised prices to keep their profit level up. 
Breheme said regular-grade gasoline at Lerner stations has risen by about 3 cents a gallon, to a total of 70 cents, in the past two weeks. 
Many of the independent refiners and dealers are asking the Energy Department for some sort of relief--ideally a revision of the base period back to 1972. But in the meantime, Brehme says, "It looks like a rough time ahead.'' 

...Israelis 
[continued from page 1] 
Israeli Cabinet decision was a ''very positive step and this will help us to sign the peace treaty in the next few days. Another Egyptian official said the treaty was "all wrapped up." 
A senior Egypuan official said that ''one important new element'' of the peace agree­ment was American participa­tion in the negotiations on the Palestinians settlement, which will follow a treaty signing. 
Original plans had called for Jordanian and Palestinian par­ticipation in the talks, but the official indicated negotiations would proceed without them ''if necessary." 
The official said Egypt had 
pressed the United States to join in the negotiations, appar­ently to help guarantee Israeli "good faith." 
Informed sources here said one important compromise over stumblmg blocks to the treaty was reached when Israel dropped its demands to buy oil directly from Egyptian oil wells and settled instead for an American guarantee of supplies for 15 years. 
Israel Radio said Egypt would in fact sell oil to Israel, but this would not be written in the treaty. 
The nature of the other compromise was less clear, but 
it  was  believed  to  involve  a  
more  precise  time  table  for  
Israel's  withdrawal  f.rom  the  

Sinai Peninsula, and an Israeli concession on Egypt's demand to station "liaison officers" in the Israeli-held Gaza Strip to oversee moves toward auton­omy in the area. 

----~----------------~-----­
The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 11 

Barges breaking loose on flooded Mississippi 
A training program on ''Rites for the Sick and Dying'' will be offered by the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy March 26-29. 
The t>rogram will deal with theologtcal and pastoral as well as psychological and anthro­pological perspectives on the Rites for Stckness and Death. It will be held at Fatima Retreat House on the Notre Dame campus. 
Sessions will iqclude: 
--''Liturgical Reform and the Prayer of Healing" and "Faith and theMystery of Sickness and Death" by Fr. John Gallen, director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy and editor of Eucharistic Liturgies and 
Chnstians at Prayer. 
--"Preaching and the Rites for the Sick and Dying" by Fr. John Melloh, associate director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy and assistant professor of theology at Notre Dame. 
--"Sickness, Death and Christian Anthropology,'' ''The Church's Ministry to the Sick," "The Church's Ministry to the Dying," and "Preparing for the Hour'' by Fr. Kevin Tripp, a doctoral candidate in ethtcs in medicine at the University of Toronto and coordinator of Catholic ministries at St. Luke Hospital , New Bedford, MA. 
--"Planning the Wa~e, Funeral and Gravestde Liturgies" by Sr. Ma:"Y Ali~e Piil a doctoral candidate m litu~gy at Notre Dame who is doing research on the reform of the Roman Missal of Paul VI. 
--"Music and the Rites for the Sick and Dying'' by Sr. Marie Gnader, co-director of music ministry for the School Sisters of St. Francis and a frequent conductor of ecu­menical choir festivals, choral reading sessions and work­
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 
277-0615 

Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist 

mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)-At least 83 huge barges ripped out of their moorings on the swollen Mississippi River and careened 25 miles downstream smashing into docks and ships and wreck­ing property worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
''The barges were bouncing down the river, hitting one side and then the other,'' said Joseph Cannatella, superinten­dent of the New Orleans harbor police. 
"It's like taking an automo­bile at say 15 miles an hour, putting it m gear and letting it run down the street by itself.'' 
All tugs in the area were called out to help corral the runaway barges which broke loose ''like dominoes'' at sever­al points about 10 miles up­stream from this port city. By yesterday afternoon, at least 40 were back in tow. 
Three barges lashed together 
Center for Pastoral Liturgy to present programs on Rites 
shops for music ministers. 
The program will also include discussion, reflection and daily Eucharist, Morning Praise and Night Prayer. 
The Budweiser Spring Break is going to be the craziest event that's ever happened off campus {they wouldn't let us have it on campus). 
Here's what's happening: 
* 
Free Fireworks * Free Discos 

* 
Free Rock & Roll * Free Super Sports (National Championship) 


*Free Beach *Free Fun Frisbeee Disc * Free Freebees 
* Free Expo America 
rammed into the docks at Delta Commodities Inc., causing damage estimated at $1 million. 
"You're talking about 15 million pounds moving at 15 miles an hour, so it can do some damage," said Ed Guirvich, a company employee. 
A sail boat tied up at the/ort was rammed and sunk, an six 
a special T teat fot Those Stayfng Late fot Steak: 
a film by Etlc 
Rohmet Thursday, march 15 at 7, 9:15 and 11:30 pm Friday, march 16 at 7 and 9:15 
Engineering Aud. admission Sl.OO 


other ships, including the tanker Exxon Neward, were reported hit. 
Two tugs chasing the barges collided m the fog, causmg minor damage, witnesses said. 
Some ofthe barges carried oil or chemicals, leadmg to fears of pollution. No pollution was reported, but workers at water 

intake stations were warned to 
be on guard. 
New Orleans and neighbor­ing communities draw their dnnking water from the Mississippi. 
The busy port of New Orleans, the nation's second largest, was shut down for several hours. 


T: ... f' ·server Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 12 

Peoples Tem.ple spokes~an holds new-s conference, then kills himself 
MODESTO* Calif. (AP)-"I guess he finally made the decision he couldn't make it in Guyana,'' .said a reporter who talked with Michael Prokes moments before the former Peoples Temple spokesman killed himself. 
Kent Pierce, the Stockton bureau chief of KCRA-1V in Sacramento who had worked with Prokes, was among those at a new conference which Prokes had called Tuesday night at a motel in Modesto, his hometown. 
At the end of the news conference, Prokes, 31, walked into a bathroom, closed the door, turned on the water and shot himself. He died at a

Spn"ng marks invasion ofthe t:Ja:>R.e'lt:J~W 
hospital several hours later. 

of360 slam dunks. [photo by Mark Ricca] 
Other reporters guessed 

D 
I Prokes might have felt guilty being alive when his temple friends were dead. Prokes' wife Carolyn was among 913 
persons who died in a mass

S.U. RECORD SALE 
murder-suicide ritual Nov. 18-­

I 
s 
the day after Rep. Leo Ryan and four other Americans were killed when trying to leave the 
temple's jungle commune.T A suicide note found in the 
Time 12:00.-5:00 
R 
bathroom said Prokes was not depressed over the Jonestown tragedy. "If my death doesn't
ffion-Thuts 
prompt another book about the end of Jonestown, it wasn't worth living," it said. · 

Prokes had handed reporters 22 pases of rambling thoughts in whtch he said that "except for (my) first few months in the temple, I never really liked (cult leader) Jim ] ones. I guess it was his authority that bothered 
me.'' 

In the mimeographed pages, entitled ''Miscc;llaneous Reflec­tions," Prokes wrote: "It is sadness beyond tears to think of my brothers and sisters from Jonestown, hundreds of them not only unidentified but still unburied ... Peoples Temple was their only home, their only family, their only life. They are nameless and alone--forgotten by America. 
"Through I'm white," he concluded, ''when I die I belong with them, for. their struggle was mine also.'' About 80 percent of the Guyana victims were black. 
As he left the room, Prokes told the reporters: "I've got no martyr complex. But I refuse to let my black brothers and sisters die in vain." 
After hearing the gunshot, the eight reporters and photo­graphers in the room gasped and rushed to his aid, one administering mouth-to-mouth resuscitation: 
Prokes had called the news conference to charge that the FBI and CIA were withholding a tape recording of the final moments in Jonestown that he claimed would show cult mem­bers were not coerced into dying. 
Ironically, a transcript of a tape made public Tuesday by NBC News reveals Jones exhortin~ his followers to ''take the pouon ... (and) step over quietly.'' Jones voice remains calm throughout and screams of children in the background are mingled with cheers of com­mune members who aJ?parenty supported the mass sutcide. 
Prokes' suicide came hours before auctioneers in San Francisco began taking bids on the remnants of the Peoples Temple headquarters. The items to be auctioned included the oak pulpit from which Jones preached in California. 
CACpresents Rohmer film 
The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission (CAC) will present "The Marquise of 0," a film by Eric Rohmer, tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Showings for Thursday are at 7, 9:15 and 11:30 and 7 and 9:15 for Friday. Students not leaving for break until Saturday, as well as those taking standardized tests that day, are especially welcome. 
''The Marquise of 0'' is the ftrst of two ftlms to be shown by the CAC. The second will be ''Madame Rosa,'' starring Simone Signoret, and will be shown on April 24 and 25 in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Softball team to organize 
A group of students interested in forming a fast pitch softball team will hold an organizational meeting and a practice on March 27 at 4:15 
p.m. in Stepan Center. All girls Interested m playing for Notre Dame should attend and bring their mitts. Games have al­ready been scheduled against Grace College, Bethel College, Calumet and Saint Mary's. Students with questions should call Debbie at 232-9211, Mary Hammer at 2172 or Astrid at 2163. 
S.U. Ticket Office 
Sting yout duplicate otdet fotm 
I 
Three die in suburban 

8 
Colutnbus plane crash

u 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­T "My God, we've been hit!" yelled Lynn Van Syckle to his ~ife, Maureen, as a twin-en-I gme airplane crashed into their backyard and burst into flames. 0 The pilot, identified as John Wright, about 50, of Phoenix-N ville, Pa., and two passengers 

plane went down in the densely populated north Columbus neighborhood at about 9:30 
a.m. 
yesterday. The passen­gers were identified as William 

F. 
Bigony, 54, and his son David W. Bigony, 23, both of Warminster, Pa. 


But the Van ~ ·ckles had not been hit. Just how the pilot avoided slamming into the cluster of homes in the subdivi­sion remains a mystery. 
Except for a propeller blade, the plane was barely recogniz­able after a ftre from the crash turned the twisted remains to smoke-blackened metal rubble. 
''All I could see were flames outside the window," said Mrs. Van Syckle tearfully. She said she was on the second floor of their two-story home when the plane crashed. "I looked out the window. I didn't know it was a plane that had hit, but the whole backyard was in flames.'' 
Wright, who owned an adver­tising agency near Valley Forge, Pa., was enroute.to Ohio State University's Don Scott air fteld about ftve miles west of the crash site. Officials said the flight originated from Logans­port, IN., about 8:20a.m. 
• • • Constitution 
[continued from page 1] 

In Bonacci's view, the Board of Commissioners should have as little to do with the selection process as possible, because the Board is politically-oriented, does not include enough SU members and is less competent than the SU itself when deciding who should be SU director. 
•
'The Student Union is primarily a service organization with few political dealings, save the case of budgeting." 

•
'The board should serve as a ftnal check to make sure nothing 'flashy' is going on." If Bonacci has his way the Board's duty would be to reject the steering committee's nominee only in extremely extenuating circumstances such as an undetected police record. 


Bonacci's plan reflects his belief that ''SU should be as autonomous an or~anization as possible." 
Bonacci emphasized that if the board does find cause to reject a nominee it should first interview that person along with the steering committee's second choice. · 
Then, according to Bonacci, the board should make a decision. Bonacci pointed out that no interviews were conducted by the board during the rejection of Coughlin and selection of Hamel. 
' 

--------------------------------------------------------~~--------------------------~--~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 13 
(AP)It's enough to break your heart--or at least your axle. With the thaw, comes the
Chuckholes 
chuckhole. At best, it's an annual irritation to motorists who play a game of dodge 'em on streets and highways rav­aged by winter weather. 
cause big 
At worst, it's a money­draining proposition for every­one from the driver whose car is victimized to the state and federal governments, and
problems for 
Indiana is no exception. From' all corners of the state come reports and pictures of 
• roads dotted with potholes.
motortsts on The void in the pavement shows 
no discrimination: any vehicle that comes too close will do. This week, state lawmakers have launched a counterattack.
Indiana roads At an emergency meetin~ called yesterday Senate Presi­dent Pro Tern Martin K. 
In Chicago 
~urdersuspect apprehended 
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) ­Roger Dale Stafford, the lone suspect in nine Oklahoma mur­ders and linked by his estranged wife to other slaymgs, includmg 
the killings of four young central Indiana restaurant workers, ended his wanderings yesterday as officers brought him to jail here. 
The 27-year-old Alabama drifter was arrested as he walked into a Chicago YMCA just a block and a half from a police station Tuesday night. He waived extradition at a brief hearing Wednesday morning before District Judge Raymond 
C. Sodini in Chicago. 
Tom Kennedy, director of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation, said Stafford would be flown to Wiley Post Airport here in a private plane Wednesday afternoon and would be taken to police head­quarters before being booked into jail. 
Kennedy said the. big break in the case came when a relative tipped, police that Stafford was en route to Chicago and probably would stay at a YMCA. But he said ii: was information from Stafford's estranged wife, Verna, 26, that provided the needed backround on the family's wanderings over recent months. 
He said she has placed Stafford at various points in the country where unsolved slay­ings occured, including Speed­way, IN., where four workers were killed last November. 
An Indiana State Police spokesman said their investiga­tors wert "hopeful but not overly optimistic'' about linking Stafford with the Speedway kill­ings. Indiana authorities/Ian­ned to interview Staffor last night or early today, he added. 
Chicago Police Sgt. William 

F. Murray said Stafford was "surprised and shocked" when he was arrested. He said Stafford told officers he wanted to get back to Oklahoma ''so he could clear his name.'' 
Stafford and his brother, Harold Ray Stafford, 29, had been named as the men who gunned down six employees of an Oklahoma City steakhouse here July 16 and killed a San Antonio, Texas, couple and their 12-year-old son south of here a month earlier. 
Harold Stafford was killed in a Tulsa motorcycle accident just six days after the Sirloin Stockade employees were exe­cuted in a meat cooler during a robbery of $1,500, Kennedy said officers are not looking for other persons in connection with the multiple murders. 
Stafford has been charged 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------' 
with only one count of murder 
here and District Attorney 
Andrew Coats said the other 
five counts would be filed once 
Stafford was in custody. 
Charges in the slayings of Air 
Force Sgt. Melvin Lorenz, his 
wife and son will be filed in 
McClain County, where the 
bodies were found in deep weed 
along Interstate 35. 
Nine plainclothes policemen from the Chica~o Police De­partment, Illinois Department of Law Enforcement and federal agents grabbed Stafford after a two-hour stakeout. 
''When he walked in, he 
immmediately recognized him 
from a picture but you should 
have seen the look on his face ­
he was very startled," said 
Robert McConnell, a YMCA 
security guard. 
Bill House, night manager at the YMCA, said Stafford checked in about 5 p.m. Tues­day , paying for one day in advance for a double room. 
"He checked in with a gen­tleman named John Bartlik, under the name of Roger Davis," House said. Bartlik, a waiter from Hartsdale, N.Y., had picked up the hitchhiking Stafford after meeting him in Cleveland, Ohio Sunday. Bartlik was taken to police headquarters, but was released soon afterward. 
Arthur ·Linville, the OSBI agent who coordinated the mass murder investigation, said Mrs. Stafford had "given us information on his activi~ies during the past several months in other states, and although I don't want to go into detail on what this involves, I can say it is. about the same type of cnmes .... 
"I think it is a fair assump­
tion that since these people 
drifted around, that any crimes 
of the type that they have been 
implicated in here that have 
been committed around the 
country would certainly bear 
checking." 
... Irish 

[continued from page 16] 
successful spring for the Irish-­their fine fall performance, the confidence and dedication dis­played by the squad, as well as a lighter schedule, with Mich­igan, Illinois St. and Michigan St. having been dropped from the roster. The action in Florida next week should serve as a pleasant harbinger of an exciting, fun-filled season. 
Edwards, R-New Castle, the Senate Rules Committee unan­imously approved a House­passed bill which would have allocated $19 million for state road projects, amended by the Senate to redirect the money for emergency road repairs. 
The measure now is ready for Senate action, and Edwards said he and House leaders expected the measure to be on Gov. Otis R. Bowen's desk by day's end. 
The money is already in the state treasury, but had not been designated by the General Assembly for specific road pro­jects. 
The action came on the heels of a request by Sen. Michael 0. Kendall, D-J as per, for the governor to declare a half dozen southwestern Indiana counties disaster areas because of im­passable roads. Bowen turned 
down the request, but agreed to use the $19 million for emer­gency work, Kendall said. 
-Specific allocation of the money among governmental units had not been determined, but Kendall and Edwards in­dicated the formula would be worked out in committee. For the record, chuckholes are produced by alternate periods of warm and cold weather. Rain and melting snow flow into cracks in the pavement and when the water freezes, more cracks r("sult. As the ice melts, the pavement is weakened and broken up by traffic. Ifa chuckhole looms loi:avoid­ably ahead, tire experts suggest some ways to minimize the blow. --Properly inflated tires with­stand chuckholes better. --Slowing down eases the jolt. 

--Hit potholes, not other cars. --Brake before hitting the pot­hole. 
On a lighter note, Sen. Elden Tipton, D-J asonville, told fellow senators he had had some complaints during a 
weekend pothole tour from constituents named Charles who objected to having their names associated with the chuckhole. 
''Since there are lots of men around named Charles,'' Tipton said, "and since I don't want to offend my constituents, and since to patch the chuck­hole you have to chip at them and then seal them, I suggest we change the name of chuck­holes to chipholes.'' 
That drew an amused response.: ,-• the floor since Edwards, a ~ew Castle Repub­lican, !l(l , by the nickname "Chip. ro, 

(ffi ~CADEMY AWARD ~NOMINATIONS 
BEST PICTURE 
DIRECfOR • ACfOR • SCREENPLAY SUPPORTING ACfOR SUPPORTING AcrRESS CINEMATOGRAPHY • FILM EDITING 
ROBERT DE NIRO 
A MICHAEL CIMINO Fll M 
Shows-Daily Matinees 1:00-4:30-8:00 No Bargain Matinees -No Passes 
[R[ 



The Observer -Sports Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 14 
ACROSS 28 Navy man: 58 Movie 27 Like some 1 Bag or ball abbr. 59 Desert beverages 5 Summer dish 29 Name for a relief 29 Parisian

The Daily Crossword 
10 Follows stranger 60 Steak order pronoun 
alpha 30 Droop 62 Comedian 30 Playwright 14 Eastern VIP 33 Vous -Johnson Neil 15 "A Bell 35 Former 63 Heavens: 31 Fill with 


for-" 37 H.G. Wells comb. form wonder 16 Desert opus 64 Basic: abbr. 32 Civet's 
nomad 41 Land fea-65 Title proof cousin 17 Shine's pal tures 66 Ulcers 34 Knight ' 18 Guiding 42 Catnap 67 Foot items 35 Draft 
principle 43 Noun suffix initials 19 Mature 44 Travel sys-DOWN 36 A Knight 20 Magician's terns: abbr. 1 Pronoun 38 Sleep: 
forte 45 Arab wear 2 Alongwith comb. form 23 Blind part 48 Seine 3 Unless, 39 Upright 24 Bus. youth 49 Performance in law 40 Office 
group 50 Reasonable 4 Attire holders 25 Sound of 52 Way beyond 5 Chinese 45 -as silk sorrow the horizon boat 46 Opera 6 Votes to voices 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: accept 47 Cuckoo 7 Recent 49 Ready for 8 Pillar of war 
sorts 51 Plumed bird 9 Portal part 52 Discharge 10 Farm struc­53 Der­
tures 54 Poi source 11 -the Red 55 Glacial 12 First aid ridges 
item 56 Angelic 13· Beame or headgear 
Burrows 57 Ash, for 21 Malt drink one 22 Speed up: 58 Passing 

abbr. fancy ~ 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 31 15/79 
25 Fracas 61 AlphabeticAll Rights Reserved ~ 31 15179 26 Different letters 


O'Molarity Michael 0 'Molinelli 
'Tt S 4 LITTLE 11/'JOWN FACT, BUT DURINg 5fPIITT'(S DAY I CO'H£ TO LIF£ oN 


r-------------------------~
I I Applications for I I r Fox's., 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS
1 Student Government 1 
JEWELERS SINCE 1917 Town & Country and Concord Mall, also University Park Mall 10-9 Blackmond's; daily, 9:30-5
1I Cabinet Positions 1I 
Special15% Discount On 
I ~ I
I I 
1 are available in the I I I
1 S.G. offices I 
Chicago's St. Patrick's Day Parade 
I please contact 7668 I 
Come MARCH with the Chicago Club 
I for information I 
on Saturday March 17, we assemble at
I I 
12:30pm at sSITE 58 on the Southside of
I I 
Wacker Drive between State and Dearborn
I --I
I ~G I 
Questions??? Call Ed MoranJr 
I I
# 
.

·--------------------------· 

r-
I 1 
... Toledo 
[continued from .page 16] 
missing only two minutes of action. 
''The foot bothers him,'' Nichols said. "We put special padding in his shoe between the warm-up and the start of the game against Iowa.'' 
Nichols is joined on the front line by junior center Jim Swaney and either Harvey Knuckles or Kevin Appel at the other forward spot. 
Swaney, at 6-7, is the team's leading scorer at 15.6 ppg, and leads the team with 8.2 re­bounds per contest. Knuckles, a 6-6 sophomore, is averaging 
10.7 points a game, while Appel contributes 4.6 points per out­ing. 
Joplin, a 6-7 senior, and cohort Jay Lehman, a 5-11 sophomore, handle the back­court duties for Nichols and average 8.9 and 8.8 points per game, respectively. Lehman also leads the team in assists with 107. 
"There is no one on thejr roster taller than 6-8,'' notes Phelps, "but still they have been outrebounding people all year long. They don't hit you with super individual statistics, but they are the kind of team that will impress you when you see them play." 

The Irish, coming off their 73-67 victory over Tennessee Sunday in Murfreesboro, Tenn. , will see a patient ball club in Toledo. In fact, the Rockets may want to slow things down quite a bit. Anything to keep them from slowing themselves down. 
WE WINNER OF THE Irish­Rocket game will meet either Michigan State or Louisiana State on Sunday, at 3:14 EST, for the regional title and a trip to Salt Lake City and the prestigious Final Four. 
Noddy 
by Canavan 

-------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 15 


All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer off1ce will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m All 
cla~sifieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the mall.
Classifieds 
Commies say, "We won't sing 1long Barb and Sue-

with Mitch!"

Need ride to NYC area, NJ, NY, or 
Poosel, To our favorite lunch time buddies. It's
Notices 
Ll--wlll share driving and expenses. Can How are your peas? (hee,hee) Pat. been fun !I (We still have the rest of the leave Thursday Rob 8532 or 8528. Me semester. And then Sue gets married
To a very special girl, have a happy (Oh, that's not right??) Anyway, thanxbirthday and apeaceful break. See ya In a

Need ride for just one person back to Can you help me? I need a ride to the for everything. ·
week if I make It back from Colorado.

Support your local used bookstore-stock N.D. frorn Cincinnati on Sunday the 25th. north side of Chicago or Union Station Love,
Love,

up for break. Pandora's history section Call 8106. Friday afternoon. Ann 4·1-5468 Ann and Diane
Joe 

on 2 for sale-Happy Hour Fridays 3-6. Behind NO Apartments. 233-2342. Need riders to Indianapolis for the Chicago's St. Patrick's DIY Par1d1 Come 
Mo, Have a great time In Florida.

semi-finals • leaving Friday. Call Karen M1rch with the Chicago Club an Sltur­Nurse Dawn,
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 272-6424. day March 17. We 11semble 11 12:30 
p.m. 11 aile 58 an the Southside at Betsy and Ellen-You were great Saturday nlght-1 may Have good breaks!! El WISH YOU even smoke a cigar for you some time
Student Loans $20-$150 one percent Need ride to Boaton. Call Clthy 6859. Wacker Drive between St1te St. and 
WERE COMING WITH BUT THOSE Policeman Ken
Interest. Due In 30 days. LaFortune Dearborn. Questions call Ed Morin 
SUMMER JOBS MUST RULE. Bets· P.S. Hope Mama Jane wasn't up worry­
Basement11 :30-12:30 M-f Saturday, 17th: ride needed to 0'Hare 277-3435. 
we'll have a good time-fun In the sun and Ing half the nightairport. Call Chris 8583. 
all that.

Swimmers needed! Like to swim? Help a Tony, Love,
me'ltally handicapped child emjoy the Going skiing over break? Or just going I think I've said It all, so now It goes -------·----·-------------·­
JB-Diane

sport too! Lots of swimmers needed for west? I need riders to Colorado. Call John double. Thanks tor everything. 
Here's 143 head of Salama-and a back
the Monday night learn to swim program, at 1991. Rosemary 
Andrea 40! l:lappy Birthday
from 7:00-8:00 p.m. You don 'I need to be 
Now you can no longer claim that you Chico 
an expert, the pool at Logan Center Is Need ride to Atlanta Ga. for break. Can Sophomores: "Spirit In the Night" a 
never get any personals. Have a great

only 5 feet deep at it's deepest point. leave Wednesday afternoon. Call 4-1 class formal at the Century Center 
time In Cayman and don't allow It to Happy 21st Jayne O'B and Happy St.
Help out at the Logan Pool for an hour 4354 or 1001. featuring the "Grass Roots" are ·now make you contemptuous of our fellow Pat's Day since thay are only aday apart!
Monday nights II Interested, call Mike available In the Dining Halls during 
men! Don't be too wild on your B-Oay though
1371 or Sue-4-1-4832. Need ride to Long Island for spring break. dinner! 
Love, I'm sure you won't since all the PA. barsWill share expenses. Call John at 3507. 
Cello are closed on sunday! Watch that
I hereby disengage responsibility. Driving somewhere over break? Get your 
Seagrams!
Elmo P. Slobodnlck Need ride to Dallas for spring break. Call car tuned up for safe travelling. George 
FPK
Tricia Scan ion,

Mary Meg at 8037. 3369. 
Eres muy bonita! 

Yes Katie Martins It's true-this personalTe gustarla Salir a Bailar conmlgo
Need ride. to Buffalo or Niagara Falls for Here's to Norman ... 
Is for you! What's the occasion-Why St.
de&pues de Spring Break? Pasale bien,

spring break. Will share In all expenses. Attention all participants In the N 0· Patrick's Day of course! (Even though
Call Jean at 8037. Toronto Exchange! c.
Lost&Found 
you are mostly Portugese!)
PS-para ayuda, habla con Rancy-9Grace

Norman Flynn's birthday is March 24, 
FJP

Need ride home tor March break. Going why not show your appreciation by west on 1-80 to Des Moines Iowa. Call sending him a card or letter; CONGRATULATIONS TO MONDAY To Secret Admirer and Everyone who was
Lost: One gold Bulova women's watch Scourge 2136. Norman Flynn · NIGHT STAFF FOR BREAKING SP. ED so nice to us-Thanks so much every­
with metal band and grey lace. If found, 5 Devonshire Place RECORD THIS WEEKI 
thing!!!

please call 1349. Desperately need ride to New York City Toronto, Ontario I told you we could do II, Sue! Even Love,
area for break. Monica at with an hour-long green diversion)
Please call Canada M552C8 
Sheila and Kathy

Lost: one brown and black tape box 4-1-4772. Monday night CE co'ltalnlng 10-12 8trak tapes. Please call ND-SMC Chicago Club Happy Hour 
GRACE,

George at 1535 after 11:30 p.m. I need a ride to Ct., please (even NY City Emerald Isle Thursday March 22 8:00-??? PATSY CAMPBELL YOU PROBABLY COULD HAVE 
or New Jersey will do-I'm that desperate) See, It wasn't my fault this time-it was 
BEATEN DILLON!
Lost: black wallet lost in LeMans lobby or Call Frank at 3213 We're back In the Saddle Again Sarah the typists! I really do know how to spell THE STUDSparklnq lot or In 01. The drivers license your name.
Grathwohl Curtis, formerly of laughlin 
Panama Red

and I 0 s are desperately needed. Please Minnesota: need ride to St. Paul. Call Place, is now instructing at Keith Hell's the crew
return to the desk at LeMans or call1581. Kathy 3845. Can leave Mar. 16 or 15. Stable In Niles Michigan. Heated Arena/ P.S. I don't know about your ancestor's To cast and of Spring's 
Awakening: Thanx for the best exper­though!
No questions asked. 4 maximum In class/English or Western Ience I've had at N.D. You're all great· I 
Desperately need ride for two people east 4 lessons -In advance $40.00/Thursday 
iuv ya!

Coat Missing: Please return white coat (Mass., Conn., NY) for break. Please call evenings, Saturday afternoons Call Jo Mom 
Moritz the Boy

taken tram Saint Mary's rest room In Steve 8322 or Kathy 5236. Have agood break. Looking forward to
Hell after 7:00 #683-4467 (Alias: Tim the Dlrtball)
February to Sherry Clarke, 135 Madeleba another great year. Rosemary
Hall, or call 284-f\834. Need ride back from Des Moines, Iowa Help wanted stripping woodwork In Old after break. Call Rita 5154. House In South Bend. $3.00 per hour.
Lost: one brown. fur lined winter coat at Michon,
Need several guys to work during spring Jamie,
Guiseppe's party on Saturday. Please Looking for ride to St. Petersburg for two. break. Call 272·5808. Bring me back a "Bahama" Best wishes tor a great birthday!forward any Information to Mark at 1853. Willing to share driving and expenses. Love. 
Mr. Mota and Mike
your "phantom" roomie

Call 1769. Hey Chicago-NO SMC people! Emerald 
Lost: at the LeMans formal on Friday, a Isle Pub 21 East Pearson Thurs. March 
Gus.

Kodak pocket camera with an electronic Need ride tor two to Penn St. or any pis. 22nd after 8 p.m. Break up your break "Awesome " Bill: Cheer up! I think How could I forget?
flash. Initials P.J.C. on back. Call 3652 east on l-80. Can leave noon. March and party hardy! you're the greatest. Terl or return to 419 Morrissey. 17th. Will share driving and expenses. Love always, 
P.S. I want my earring back!
Call 3506, Steve or Larry. Short and Dumpy
Carol H., Tommy H., Art W., D.G.Y.B.,
Lost: one brown weight lilting belt with P.S. Just hang on for your "goodies" In
all say Happy Birthday BEEF. Like the moon,
the name White engraved on It Lost In the Need ride to St. Louis for break. Call Greensburg. 
Our life together has been cyclical and
ACC weight room. If found please call 6179. 
Cal Phlckley, world famous copy king, not without an eclipse. But the moon is
Mike at 3889. Michele and Marzlta­
has resigned. Let us lower our flags to forever.Need ride to Cincinnati on Thursday. half mast and bow our heads at this sad Have good and safe breaks. Enjoy the 
Must make playoff game at 6:00p.m. Call rest and food time.
moment In the history of mankind. Mikey Alexander:
Chris 1770. Love, 
Thanks for a Great Dinner. I can't
Lost: "loonle Yunle" ski hat -It has Diane and Kristin 
remember the last time I ate so well.
great sentimental value-cream colored Betsy
with the above print. Please return to Kathy Connally, Tom,Yunle 289-5039. May your reign as copy goddess be a Have fun In California! Good Luck!
For Sale 
Don't worry folks In a valiant effort to
long and prosperous one!!! Love, to
lost: maroon wallet, alligator type Olympic Rower The E·nooth and Foxy Women return next fall, I'm staying here leather. Please. please call If found!!! Tandberg 9000 tape recorder for sale. salvage my G.P.A. during break. So 7135 or 272-4909 
Excellent condition. $500 firm. 288-6748. please send postcards and throat medi­
FAREWELL SOUTH BEND!Illll cine.

Tony, Phil, Barb, MardlFRANKand Ray, 
another damned

lost Wednesday morning · keys on Sliver For sale: ski boots Hanson Bright Blue It was a very good yua,. Thanks for 1 hope I never see Ryan 
3M a half to snowflake as long as l live!!!!!
key ring with mitlals JEM. Please call fits size 8 and 10. Cost (many various nicknames) P.S. anybody
everything and don't forget us. Stumble scoop
$162.00 last year. Used on ski week elses sticking around call me at 3079
t2171 
by on your way home from the bars or
Mint condition. $75.00 289-1445. 
(god forbid) the 'brary. ENJOY..
Found: Sliver Cross pen In 127 Nieuland. littlest Wookle:
Observer Staff (especially me)

Call 8786. One homelite chain saw, E·Z -16" LJar, 2 John,
Good luck tonight and watch your nose 

chains, carrying case, good condition. Wookle Your convincing ability will take you far
Jon, ,
lost: diamond ring, extreme sentimental Call after 4:00 272-5418. In the business world,but can you learn to
Have a good break and get in shape.
value. No questions asked. $25 reward. Stoney (Joe), Jim Happy Birthday Egg, lie, cheat and steal affectlvely at N07
Your secret admirer 

Julia 4·1-5407 USED BOOK SHOP. Wed. Sat., Sun. 9·7 Rickey, Joe, John, Bob, Paul, Pat Keith Truly, Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Road Heidi
Have you figured our who I am. Here's a 
Lost or stolen: ladles size 8brown leather Niles. 683-2888. Kristin-Now, where Is Harvard?
clue, my first name starts on the 13th butgloves. Please return to 339 Walsh or please step on me. If you figured o•;• the Have a good and safe break and don't 
lost and Found In the Ad Bdlg. NCAA finals tickets 3124 and 3/26 first the last makes Cammon Sense. study too hard. Everything will work our To Regina 4th floor South 
312-991-3839 evenings. fine. Thanks for making my 19th birthday
Your admirer 

Found: Last Thurs. night at Goose's Love, really special. Speclat thanks to Vicki,
P.S. I'll miss you over brealc Have a 
Nest: Brown leather. hooded winter Diane Janlne. Betsy and Jonl-you made me feel
great time In Florida.
Personals 
jacket. Call 3252. like I was back home. News Staff-lisa (Beezley), love, 
lost Thurs night at the Goose's Nest. A It's been a great year. Thanks for HB19 from a fellow rhino. Teresa blue down coat with car keys In the To The Observer Stiff, everything. Keep up the good work with P.S.-Be an eagle.
pocket. Cal 8446. Thinks for 1 very good ye1r. I hope th1t Joe,
the Mike's and Mark.
returning hiVe 1

those of you who are THANK YOU all so much for the visits, Congratulations on Wayne State med.
Love,

Who ever swapped my camel coat at productive y11r. l'llsee those of you who flowers, liquids, bubbles, tvplng, rides school. rm not surprised-! always knew
Ann and DianeSenior Bar Friday night, please call Pat 1re gr1duat1ng 11 the blrl. and last but not least scarves( YOu did an you would do lt. dldn 't 17 AMC 4915 LAP Mark(SLU), Sheila and Kathy excellent job of turning the worst of times 
To Paul Rogalski-Thanks for making my
The gift of life Is the best! I couldn't Into the best of times. I can' thank you
lost: one silver cross pen with Initials. If Rick, have picked any better people to have an enough for all that you've done. 19th birthday last Friday a real riot. found please call 7968 or bring up to Dreams as well as threats can come true. accident with! You are all so terrfic! THANKS! Teresa Observer office. Happy 21st! Joanle
JoanIa 

March 17th Is Carol Smith's 21st birth­lost: ladles gold-link chain bracelet To Daub, Cralg,James, Karen, and the day She'll be out at the bars Thursday 
Anne 

Lady,between lewis and the South Dining Stanford Hall Hockey Team This is no fish tale! The Seahorse will Plecuchs: night collecting kisses! Hall. Call 6680 Would like to thank the seniors for their be a fishbowl for a Pisces born. 19 will be Be sure to wish your Iowa friend a Happy 
great play over the past 4 years. a very lucky number. Birthday today. We're very grateful for Happy 21st c. Smith, It's been a great congratulations· Us everthlng. See you Monday, year. Kevin Connolly K&K 
Sue

Wanted J,
Dan Cole Mike-
Brian Dl.!mond Famous Last Words: Observer staff-
Spring Break $$$ Help wanted stripping Ron Mayor "I thought there was a shelf" Enjoy your deserved break. Now you can Thanks for all the good times. It's been (woodwork) In an old house In South Bend Brian Spellisy fun. Here's to another year of fun and
-that was a little shakey but heatwave was spend your late nights partying. See you
$3.00 an hour. Need several guys to work Jack Welnacht all on the 26th. games!! (Only you won't have us to put
nice. Have a nice break.
during spring break. Call 272-5808. luv, Rosemary up with at lunch time 11veryday). Your loss.
J.

Happy 20th Birthday, Mlcheal. Rumor has It: The Golden Dome Is being love.
Need ride to O'Hare airport on Friday Love, placed over sec. 6-0 Grace­
Ann and Diane

morning March 16. Call Kathy at Is It true that Mike Burger has nice buns? Congratulations·
Kimble and Sue P.S.Have a nice break.
4-1-4686. Peggy, Judy, Cammy 
-----------------------· 

-~-­
Thursday, March 15, 1979 -page 16 
At Market Square 
Toledo challenges Irish 
by Paul Mullaney itself off by any means. The "We've won our way into the Assistant Sports Editor Rockets upset Iowa, 74-72, on country's top 16 teams, and we Stan Jopltn's 20-footer at the did it where it counts--on the 
Things dido' t look that good buzzer, and are now among court, not by the virtue of for Toledo with one game the nation's final16 schools still somebody's vote on Monday remaining on its Mid-American in search of the coveted nation­morning," said Nichols, in his Conference basketball scbed­al title. 14th year at the Ohio school. ule. The Rockets were one "They are a smart, heads-up ''We think we can play with game behind league-leading group that doesn't make a lot of any team in the country, re­Central Michigan, which only mistakes," noted Notre Dame gardless of where they're had to defeat a questionable Coach Digger Phelps, whose ranked." Kent State squad to pave its Irish are next in line for the That includes Notre Dame, road to the NCAA tournament. Rockets at Market Square which enters the game ranked 
But, as usually happens come Arena in Indianapolis tomorro"' fourth by the Associated Press. tourney time, things dido' t turn night at 7:00 _(WNDU-TV). ''Notre Dame is a very physi­ou~ the way they were expected "Two of Toledo's wins th1s cal team,'' continued Nicholas, to. While Toledo easily dispos­year have come against Ohio whose Rocket squads have ed of Eastern Michigan in its State and now Iowa--and that never had a losing season. final game of the year, Kent impresses me,'' continued _''They have a lot of big bodies Stae sur_prised Central Michi­Phelps. "They are a team that and they set good picks and gan to force a playoff for the really stresses the team aspect screens. They're not only big MAC's automatic NCAA birth. of the game, particularly on and strong, but they have a 
And Coach Bob Nichols' op­defense. Not many teams great deal of depth. . portunistic Rockets wereo' t around the country play the ''They' II present a match up about to leave well enough kind of consistent defense that problem for us, especially at alone. In that MAC playoff Toledo does." guard. But our guys are not contest held at Ann Arbor, The Irish, who have also afraid of them. We don't mind Mich., Toledo knocked off been touted as a strong defen­playing a physical game our­Central Michigan, 73-63, giving sive team, bring a 23-5 mark selves.'' itself the opportunity to meet into the Mideast Regional semi­] unior forward Dick Miller is Big Ten at-large representative final contest, while Toledo proof himself that the Rockets Iowa in second-round NCAA boasts a highly respectable 22-7 are a physical ball club. The 6-i) action at Bloomington, Ind. ledger. All reason for the Irish, front-liner broke a bone in his 
Tol~do, which had planned as Phelps pointed out, not to foot on February 14, and didn't on watching the tourney on take the Rockets lightly. And practice until last week. Never­televio;;ion, •1asn't about to write Nichols agrees. theless, he has scored 18 points 
and pulled down 14 rebounds in 

Irish center Btl/ Laimbeer [center], who hazls from Toledo,
each ofhis last two games while 

skould be_ ready to perform before many homefolk tomorrow [continued on page 14) mght agamst the Rockets. [photo by Doug Chnstian] 
NCAA Mideast Re_gional 
AT INDIANAPOLIS M/.RKET SQUARE ARENA 
;michignn St. ;To open 179campaign
:Friday, 9 p.m. ·-L_ :Louisinnn St. . _j 
Irish travel to sunshine 
Sunday, 3:14p.m. 
... ~.&.-by Mike Henry don't really hav~ a lot of power, commodity for Kelly's young
""<!\Q\_ 

Sports Wn'ter but I expect u::; to make good hurlers. Senior righthander!Friday, 7 p.m. 
contact and garner a lot of Mike Bobinski will be counted 
With strong competition for extra-base shots," he observes. on to lend stability and exper­
!Toledo _J 
jobs at most positions, a confi­Leading the hit parade are ience to the cause. The Long
il.. -­

dence bred by a surprisingly Notre Dame's nonpareil cap­Island native has suffered from successful fall campaign, and, tain, senior shortstop Ricky elbow problems in the past, but as Irish coach Tom Kelly says, Pullano, slick-fielding third has shown no discomfort in ''The most potential of any sacker Mark Simendinger, who pre-season drills. team in my four years here," batted .409 in the fall, and Sophomore Bob Bartlett, com­the Notre Dame baseball team freshman first baseman Henry ing off an impressive fall mark eagerly awaits the start of a Valenzuela, whose smooth of 3-0, will also be exP.ected to spring slate of 36 games. stroke enabled him to rip make a strong contnbution. 
Florida-bound Domers can opposing pitchers at a .407 clip He's able to overpower batters get a sneak preview of this in his first taste of varisty with his speed, but still needs year's squad, as it will be rcompetition. some work on his control. stationed in Orlando over Additionally, the splendid Crafty Mark Ladd, whose im­spring break for seven games backstop duo of]im Montagano provement has been dramatic, against Florida Tech, the Uni­and Dan Voellinger present a and Mike Deasey, owner of a versity of Florida, Delaware pleasant dilemma for Kelly, as sharp breaking ball, are expect­and Stetson U. It will be a both are dangerous weapons on ed to round out the starting challenging week, but relished offense and have developed a rotation. nonetheless by the 20 young knack for handling the young Kelly is also looking to get men undertaking the excursion. Irish staff. Keystone sacker solid relief work and an occa­While pitching was primarily Tommy Caruso rounds out the sional start from freshman Greg responsible for Notre Dame's interior of the defense, and his Kot. The friendly Virginian has excellent-fall record, Kelly fore­shortened stroke should enable rebounded nicely from a sore sees an increase in run produc­him to make better contact with arm, suffered in the fall. Senior tion from his talented, but the ball. Mike Kenahan harbors plans to inexperienced, batsmen. "We While the Irish will enter the break into the rotation, as does 
season with only four outfield~ Wisconsin native Tim Hand­ers, Kelly feels secure in using rich. each of them at any of the three The aspirations a_nd dreams
Kelly gets post 

slots. Fleet Mike Jamieson, ofthis year's Irish nine are best who clubbed .367 in the au­summed up by the main cog in 
Dr. Tom Kelly has been tumn, will probably patrol left the machine, captain Pullano. officially named the Director of field, as well as beins counted "We all think we can be Non-varsity Sports at Notre on for occupying the rmportant winners this year, and the Dame, replacins Dominic ] . number two spot in the batting enthusiasm is unrivalled by ''Nappy'' Napohtano, who re­order. Dan Szajko and Greg previous seasons," he exudes. signs from that post with the Rodems are engaged in a tussle "It's something special that conclusion of the 1978-79 school for center, with Rodems' defen­comes from inside each player-­year. sive wizardry perhaps giving a willinsness to battle back 
Kelly, who came to Notre him the nod. Dave Barrish, when thmgs are against us--a Dame in 1965 as an Assistant who came to Notre Dame as a sense of unity, of striving Professor of Physical Education shortstop, will try to improve towards a common goal. And, and Assistant Baseball Coach, his consistency at the plate it's important to get off to a begins his fourth season as while manning right. good start by being competitive Notre Dame's head diamond As the doubleheaders begin with the teams we'll play in coach this weekend, when his to pile up on the return from Florida." team travels to Florida to open Disneyworld-land, pitching con­Many factors point to a its season. sistency will be a strived-for [continued on page 13] 





