
, , , Byrnes 'Holocaust -page 13 


[continued on page 6J ·an economic slowdown later in the end of 1979, and President one step further. Cox said ================~====~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c~~ wu ~ru~d u Rill d~li~Km~~wuw~o~ 
VOL. XIII, NO. 95 

Poet Ginsberg highlights 
SLF opening Sun·day night 
by Tom jackman Senior StaffReporter 

The 1979 Sophomore Literary Arts Festival will open Sunday night in Washington Hall with famed poet Allen Ginsberg giving a poetry reading. The Festival will run through next Saturday, with activities and workshops scheduled throughout the week. 
Also participating in the festival, adding to the long list of renowned authors who have appeared here, will be Broadway playwright David Marner and novelist William Gaddis. 
The SLF, an annual event, is organized completely by students, and attempts to enhance the literary sophostification of Notre Dame students through personal contact with individuals in the literary world. Financing for the festival comes from an Indiana Arts Grant, Student Union, and donations. Admission to all events is free. 
Allen Ginsberg will begin the festival at 8 p.m. Sundal in Washington Hall. His controversial works have gone on tria for obscenity in the past, and his poems have been influenced by drug experimentation, politics and Eastern religions. He once listed his a vocational interests as "meeting with poets and witch doctors." There will be an informal reception backstage with Ginsberg after 
the reading. . . . . On Monday morning at 9:05, Gmsberg wtll giVe a talk 10 Professor Walter Davis's class on William Blake and his works. At 
1:15 p.m., Ginsberg will hold an open workshop in the library lounge, and at 2:45p.m., playwright David Marner will also hold a workshop in the Library lounge. 
At 8 p.m. Monday night, Marner will give a reading in the Library auditorium, followed by a reception 10 the lounge. Marner is the author of the play "American Buffalo," whtch ran on Broadway for over a year, a~d won the New Yor~ Drama Criti~s Circle Award for best Amencan play of 1977. Hts latest play .ts ''Mr. Happiness,'' which was first produced on Broadway 10 March, 1978. 
On Tuesday, novelist William Gaddis w!ll ~old an . open workshop in the Library lounge at 3 p.m., and wtll gtve a read10g at 8 that night in the Library auditorium. 
Gaddis published The Recognitions in 1955, a novel regarded by somt> as an American masterpiece. He published the book}.R. in 1975, and Contemporary Authors called him "one of America's most prodigiously talented novelists." 
Donald Hall will conduct an open workshop at 1: 15 on Wednesday afternoon in the library lounge, followed by a reading in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. and a reception afterwards. 
Hall published several highly acclaimed collections of ~oetry, most notably Extles and Marriages, which "Time" called 'equal parts of intelligence and imagination," and A RoofofTiger Ltl!ies, m which he was proclaimed "a master of technique." His most recent work is A Blue Wing Ttlts at the Edge ofthe Sea. 
Thursday afternoon at 2:45, ] ohn Frederick Nims will give. a reading in the library lounge· Nims graduated from Notre Dame 10 1937 and rece'ived his masters degree in 1939. He was a member of th~ faculty here for 23 years, and has published five book~ of 
Aimedatpeace 

Carter, Begin resume talks 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter planned to plunge direcdy into peace talks with Prime Minister Menachem Begin after the Israeli leader's arrival late yesterday. 
The talks, aimed at resurrecting the stalled Israeli-Egyptian peace negotiations, are being held amid growing strains in U.S.-Israeli relations. · 
c~ter has expressed frustration over the deadlock in negotiations. The Israelis are unhappy be(.ause the United States is support­ing key Egyptian demands. 
Still, White House press secretary Jody Powell said before Begin's arrival: "The United States is going to explore every legitimate oppor­tunity'' for a settlement. 
Even so, the outlook for concluding a treaty between Egypt and Israel did not appear bright as C~ter moved into what he says will be ''a frank discussion of the issues'' with Begin. 
Before bo~dinB his plane from Israel, Besin said "the A.mencan delegation should thmk again and change their attitude.'' And he said it 
was the duty of the United States to persuade the Egyptians to change their attitude. He added that Israel already has made ''great sacrifices '' for the cause of peace. "It is not our intention to pressure anyone," Powell said. "The pressure is on us all." 
Begin did not elaborate on the U.S. proposals for resolving the deadlock that he found unacceptable. But diplomatic sources in Washington told the Associated Press the specifics of U.S. support for Egypt's position on the three major unresolved issues. The sources insisted on anonymity. 
First, the sources said, the administration agrees with Egypt that a one-year time-table for 
establishing  Palestinian  autonomy  in  Israeli­ 
held  territory  should  be  included  in  the  
Egyptian-Israeli treaty.  

The United States is proposing that Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat exchange!etters providing that a Palestinian authority be set up on the west bank of the ] ordan River and in the Gaza district. 
...·~..... ::.:~:~ 
-»:'li.?:,·,:t<,<' 



Chris Delatore, a senior from Zahm hall, 'takes to the road' across a damp ND campus. [photo by Phtlip johnson] 



U.S. economy drops again 
WASHINGTON (AP) . The the year. goods rose and that employ­government's economtc baro-Economists disagree over ment grew in]anuary. meter fell for the third straight whether there wiJI be an orderly William Cox, a Commerce month in]anuary, pointing to decline or a deep recession at Department economist, went 
confident there'll be no reces-news. He satd the economy ston. must slow down for the hectic 
The 1. 2 percen.t drop in the pace of last fall if inflation is to Commerce Department's index be brought under control. of leading economic indicators "It would be premature to was the steepest since a 3 conclude that a recession is in percent decline in ] anuary the offing," Cox said. 1975, which occurred toward Nonetheless, many private the end of the nation's last forecasters ~e sticking to their recession. ,pr.edictions of a recession late 
The 1.2 percent decline fol-thts year or early next year. lowed decreased of 0.4 percent Economists for the in ovember and 0.1 percent in Business Council, composed of December. The index also corporate leaders, say that as declined for three months in a many as 1 million persons may row in the summer of 1977 but be thrown out of work. the economy kept growing The leadin~ indicators report, 
'dl when comb10ed with a variety
rapt y. f h o ot er recent government
Press secretary Jody Powell statistics, paints a bleak picture said Thursday's report was of the economy: consistent with the White -consumer prtces jumped 0.9 House view that the rate of percent in 1anuary as food, growth would slow this year, health and housing costs con­but that the new figures don't tinued to climb. 
signal recessions. -Prices received by farmers He said there were other rose 3 percent in February, the 
indicators that show improve-third consecutive increase. ment in the economy, mention-These increases often show up ing that orders for durable (co111i11ued 011 page J] 
.. ·, , ·• ~ :~'Wlt.\!1.. ~~:.~u~i.i4' 41U'liBPtr , W 
Dulac error causes furor across campus 
by Tom jackman Senior StaffReporter 
A one-word misprint in this year's edition of Dulac concern­mg the fees assessed for own­ers of refrigerators has touched off a small furor across campus this semester. The controversy arose over the regulation in the student manual which states that "charge of $15 per semes­ter will be assessed against the occupants of a room which have electric refrigerators of pro­hibited size (over 4.6 cubic feet)." Previous Dulac editions have said that students will be charged for "electric refriger­ators of any size.'' 
The Administration is still 
unclear as to how the change 
happened. Bro. Kieran Ryan, 
assistant vice-president of bus­
iness affairs, explained, "we're 
still trying to fino out who made 
that change... Somebody 
obviously made it without con­
sulting us." He also noted, "As 
far as we are concerned, the 
policy is still in effect." 
The question has been raised in the past two issues of The 10bserver, however, over the legality of the fee, even if the resulation in DuLac is a mis­pnnt. University Counsel Phil Faccenda believes that the re~­ulation is still binding, "if it s an obvious misprint, from look­ing at back copies of DuLac.'' He also noted that if it were not 
[continued on page .5] 

-----------~--=~------------------------------~----------­
----------~--------~--------.-----------------­
News in brief Friday, March 2,1979 -page 2 

Tanzanian president makes 
Student discovers worm in com; demands to endwarin Africa Food Sevices pitches 300 pounds 
by Mike Ridenour to an inch. The student said he dumped. A third worm was Staff Reporter took the worm to one of the discoved by an employee whileNAIROBI, Kenya (AP) -Tanzanian President Julius K. 
dining hall workers who ''pass­she was serving corn.
Nyerere made peace demands on Ugandan President Idi Notre Dame Food Service not beinged it off as even ''When learning this
a aboutAmin, but did not demand Amin's resignation. Nyerere said 
threw out 300 pounds of frozen worm.'' 
we prodeeded to send 65 casesin a broadcast Wednesday the four-month-old war between 
corn this week after students 
After further inspection, din­of the frozed corn back to Greenthe neighboring East African nations "could end tomorrow" 
and employees found three 
ing hall managers admitted itif Uganda and the Organization of African States agreed to Bay for inspection. We are now
worms in food served in the 
was a bore worm. "Immediatefour conditions: An OAS condemnation of Amin for 
North Dining Hall. using canned corn," Athey
action was taken and we dump­invading Tanzania; Renouncement by Amin of his claim over said.
A student, who asked to 
ed 300 pounds of corn," accord­part of Northern Tanzania: A pled8e by Amin never to invade 
remain unidentified, last Satur­He explained that it is not all
ing to Ronald Athey, Foodagain, and an Agreement by Amm to pay compensation for 
day found ~ worm described by that uncommon to find worms
Service director at the Northinvasion damage. • in corn. He said that bore
various sources as anywhere in 
Dining Hall. 
worms
length from an eighth of an inch Another bore worm was are found primarily in found Tuesday evening in corn sweet corn and they are some­by another student. The corn times hard to distinguish be­was from the same Gree Bay cause they are the same color as 
Weather 
Speier &Co. 
WJ stock that had not been the corn.
Becoming Partly sunny today with highs in the mid 40's. Mostly cloudy tonight with lows in the mid 30s. Rain likely Tomorrow highs in the upper 40s. The extended outlook 
to broadcast 
shows: rain Sunday. Cloudy Monday. Fair Tuesday. Lows in 
an 
hbatt Slassts
the 40s to low 50s Sunday dropping into the 30s to low 40s by 
Tuesday. Highs in the upper 40s to upper 50s Sunday and 
overWSND 
40s by Tuesday. 
camp_us 
~ 'lll'
WSND-89FM will present 
miniStry 
~tttttb ir.tart C!tlyurrlt
Jim Speier Co. this Saturday, March 3, on Live-Nocturne Nightflight, which airs from 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:15 a.m. Sunday Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C. well-~eveloped harmony, 
12:15 to 2 a.m. Known for their 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. John Gallen, S.J. Speier & Co. are popular Nazz 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. performers. Along with Night­flight host Jim O'Brien, they 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. John Gallen, S.J. will answer listener's questions over the WSND-89FM tele­
Friday,March 2,1979 
phone lines. Live-Nocturne 
Nightflight provides a dialo~ue ROOM I 
12:15 pm--MASS, fr. robert griffin, LAFORTUNE BAIL­
SPRING'S AWAKENING
between listener and musician, 
~ND
enabling the audience to inter­
act with the performer.
3:15 pro--LECTURE, "physical approach to biological 
A CHILDHOOD TRAGEDY 
structures and the problem of muscle contraction,'' dr. edwin 
SMC
taylor, u. of chicago, UB. AUD. 
THEATRE BY Frank Wedekind 
Walsh enters 
3:30 pro--LECTURE, norman malcolm, BIOLOGY AUD. March 2,3,7,8,9,& 10 8:00pm
4:30 pro--LECTURE, "is the proton stable?" dr. golhaber, 
secondterm
LIB. AUD. 
Olaughlin Auditorium tickets $2.50 5:15pm--MASS AND DINNER, at the BULLA SHED 
at CAUSE 
R. Brian Walsh, director of
7 pm--BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, talent show, 
9th Floor Planner Sponsors, 
the University Computing Center, has been elected to his 8 pm--PLAY, "spring's awakening," sponsored by nd/smc 
LIB. AUD. 
second conse_cutiv.c term as 

HAPPYHOUR 
secretary-treasurer of CAUSE, the professional association for 
theatre, O'LAUGHUN AUD!'-· 
at
the development, use and society), SEE RM. 350 MATH BLDG. FOR PLACE 
9 pm--MEETING, logarizmus kappa ruf (mathematical honor management of information systems in higher education. 
NICKlES
CAUSE membership
Saturday, March 3, 1979 
includes more than 900 mem­bers on 450 campuses across noon--TRACK MEET, nd, kentucky state, illinois-chicago 
the United States and Canada. 
.FRIDAY Beer 3/$1.00 7&7's/$.50 
circle, ACC 
The Observer.
1 pro--SEMINAR, alumnae weekend reception, UB. AUD. 
Night Editor:Scoop Sullivan 
l• / River City Records & ' 'i
Asst. Night Editor: Pam
3 pro--BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, lecture by benjamin hooks, ex. dir. naacp, WASHINGTON HALL 
Degnan, Beth Huffman 
Copyreaders: Mike Shields, 
, Celebration Productions Present' 
Phil Cackley Layout Staff: Ann 7,9911 pro--FILM, "heroes," ENGR. AUD. 
7 pro--MASS, REGINA HALL SMC 
Mona~than, Lynn Tyler 
. THE 
Editonal Layout: Greg 8 pro--BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, fashion show, . 
Hedges 
• 
Features Layout: Lynn
MONOGRAM RM. ACC 
Tyler, Chris Stewart 
Sports Layout: Mr. Bill theatre, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
8 pro--PLAY, "spring's awakening," sponsored by nd/smc 
typists: Mardi Nevin, Mark 
OUTLAWS 
Perry, Mary Campbell, Lisa 
Divalerio, Paula Vernon
•J pm--K OF C DISCO, KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HAIL 
IN CONCERT
Early Morning Typists:Kim 
and Rosie
U: 15 am--LIVE PERFORMANCE, live-nocturne nightflight, 
jim speier & co. with host jim o'brien, WSND-89FM 
Day: Editor: Keith 
special guest Wireless
Melaragno 
Ad Layout: Chris Slatt 
Sunday,March 4,1979 
· Photographer: Phillip 
Frida_y March 2 e8:00pm
johnson 
1 pro--CLUB MEETING, nd chess club, LAFORTUNE 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. 
RATHSKELLAR 
2 pro--BENGAL BOUTS, quarter finals, ACC 
The Observer is published by the 
Advance Tickets $8.00/7.00
• students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be
3 pm--"o.nything goes," features the best of the big bands 
,., now on sale at River City Records 
purchased for $20 per year l$10 per
with host barry stevens, WSND AM-640 
semester! from The Observer. P.O. box 
50970 U.S. 31 N. 3 miles north of campus
0. Notre Dame,lndiana 46556. Second
7,9&11 pm--FILM, "heroes," ENGR. AUD. 
class postage paid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
•. and at the Morris Civic Box 
The Observer is a member of the
8 pro--SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL, allen ginsberg, 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
-call 277-4242 for furthur information •
poet, WASHINGTON HALL 
rights are reserved. 



The Observer 
(AP) -The squeeze in world oil suppltes caused by the Iranian revolution is filtering down to the American con­sumer. Oil com.l?anies on Thursday began limiting sales of gasolme and heating oil to dealers, and Texaco said it would close 2,200 gas stations in five states over a three-year period. 
Industry sources, meanwhile, said tht.' United States was on the ver~e.of asking the world's industnahzed natwns to cut their use ofoil voluntarily. And Venezuela denied a report that it planned to implement a 9 percent increase Thursday. 
Motorists wanting to buy gasoline during March from Texaco, Standard Oil of Indiana (which sells Amoco brand fuel), Cities Service, Mobil, Atlantic Richfield. Phillips Petroleum 
UnitedStates and China celebrate renewal ofjoint diplomatic relations 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With an enthusiastic welcome from President Carter, the United States and China established full diplomatic relations yester­day for the first time in almost 30 years. 
Temporarily setting aside his concerns about China's 12-day­old invasion of Vietnam, Carter received diplomatic credentials from Chinese Ambassador Chai Tse and declared, "I consider this to be a momentous day in the historical evolution of our nation. We consider this to be a great .~pportunity for the future. 
Chai pledged efforts to "further promote the friend­ship between the two peoples." 
U.S. Ambassador Leonard Woodcock was unable to be in Peking for the occasion because his swearing-in ceremony at the State Department took place only Wednesday, two days after his nomination was confirmed by the Senate. Woodcock was en route to Peking yesterday. 
In Peking, Treasury Secre­tary W. Michael Blumenthal hoisted the American flag over the U.S. embassy and wel­comed the formal end to the long Sino-American diplomatic estrangement. 
"For too long, our peoples Co. and Continental Oil may occasionally find the pumps empty. 
Those companies are selling less gasoline to dealers during the month in attempts to con serve supplies that are low because Iran's oil fields have been idled by political turmoil. But analysts said the shortages at gas pumps would be infre­quent and probably not last more than a day. 
Phillips, which announced a week ago that it would limit dealers to 70 percent of 1978 levels, said Thursday that retail sales of gasoline at some com­pany-owned stating in Okla­homa, where the company has its headCJ.uarters, would be restr icted and said some sta­tions would be closed on Sun­days. 
Before the revolution, Iran 
and our governments have been separated. That se~;>aration has ended. Our histones and our political and economic systems are different, yet we can trade together and we can work together'" ne said. 
At a similar ceremony at the Chinese Embassy in Washing­ton, China's minister for meta­lurgical industries, Tang Ka, expressed confidence that the new relationship will promote ''friendship and cooperation between the two countries.'' 
As a crowd of about 100 persons, mostly embassy offi­cials looked on, a new Chinese flag was raised on the embassy roof and a gold-colored name plate was put alongside the embassy door. 
The events culminated a process that began seven years and one day ago, when Presi­dent Richard M. Nixon and Chinese Premier Chou En-Lai pledged to move toward nor-
Buy Ads 
The Observer 
produced 10 percent of the crude oil used by the non-com­munist world and 5 percent of that used by the U.S. The short supplies have caused gasoline pnces across the country to risk a penny or two a gallon in recent weeks. Prices also have been going u~ because OPEC raised crude-od prices Jan. 1 by 5 percent. 
According to the Lundberg letter, an industry newsletter, regular gasoline is selling at a national average of about 70 cents a gallon at full-service stations, up two cents from the start of the year. 
Texaco spokesman Jim 
Robertson  said  it  would  take  
about three years  to  complete  
the  pullout  and  added  that  

many of the stations would probably remain open, pump­mg a different firm s gas. 
mal relations. 
A barrage of firecrackers celebrated the conversion of tht: 
U.S. liaison office in Peking tc· full embassy status. A record· ing of ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' was played and dozen American children sang the U.S. national anthem. 
MOI,..TUES. l· 1o 

FRIDAY .2s• ,..,_· 
midnite 
.,.,..-r -· --..,. owned byI,.,.~~~'· NO& SMC ... ~~-grads
~..... .,.,.,.,;' Corner of Eddv and South Bef!!!. 
Special prk:oa lor thOH 
showing ticket etubs 11ter ACC athletic event• 
Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 3 
Blumenthal claims China owes ntillions 
PEKING (AP) -Treasury 
Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal toasted an "auspi­cious beginning" to U.S.-Chm­ese economic relations Thurs­. day, but conceded that an agreement on $197 million in American claims against China 
has so far eluded his grasp. 
Blumenthal has sa1d settle­
ment of the claims issue is 
essential to lasting improve­
ment in trade and other econ­
omic ties between the two 
countnes. 
At a news conference wind­ing up the Peking part of his nineday visit to China, Blumenthal said the claims question remained unresolved. But he said his talks here have been successful because of advances made in such other areas as trade, banking and the establishment of a joint comm­ittee to deal with economic relations between the two coun­tries. 
These gains "altogether 
Want to work for the 
OBSERVER? 
. starting immediately, operungs are !availableon the advertising sales staff. 
the staffis paidon a 
commission basis to sell ads it's good e~rience 
check it __out ! ! 
call Bob at 7 4 71 to set up an interview 
make for considerable progress in moveing and implementing the mormalization of our econ­omic relations," he said. " .... We certainly consider the purpose for which I came to visit Peking, as it relates to our economic relations, has been achieved." 
Earlier Thursday, Blumenthal hoisted the Amer­ican flag above the U.S. Liaison 
Mission  in  Peking,  officially  
transforming  it  into  the  U.S.  
Embassy.  

The American envoy sair' some additional talks on the issue of outstanding claims may be conducted in Shanghai. He did not rule out the possibility that a final agreement could be reached before he leaved China for Tokyo Sunday. 
Some progress was made in settling the claims in talks with Chinese leaders Thursday, Blumenthal said, but he de dined to go into details of the points that remain in dispute. 
nothing to do? 
Wed. March 28 Sun,March4 6:00pm LAFORTUNE LOBL;Y Limit 1 0 Tickets per person 
Price $8.50 $7.50 
Tickets go on sale MondayMarch 5 19.:00am at Student Union Box Office Also available at ACC Gate 1 0 9.:00-5:00 
The Observer Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 4 


I 
@1978 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. 

The Observer Friday, March 2, 1979 -pageS 

Conference to begin tonight 
The Less Developed Countries Conference, will begin tonight at 7:30 in the Center For Continuing Education. 
Two nationally known speakers will join University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh in analying the plight ofThird World countries and outlimng ways m which social justice can be provided for inhabitants. 
Denis Goulet, senior fellow of the Overseas Development Council, will speak tonight at 8 p.m. on "Perspectives of the Thrid World." He is the author of The Crt~el Choice, Toward a New Moral Order and Uncertain Promise. 
S.Peaking at 9 a.m. tomorrow will be Don Luce, director of national organization called Clergy and Laity oncerned, who will discuss United States involvement in less developed countries. As a member of the International Voluntary Service he uncovered the Tiger Cage program in Asia used for the torture of political pnsoners. 
Hesburgh's t~l~. at 11 a.m. Sunday, ::ou.r Mo~al and Ethical Responstbtltty to Our Fellowman, wtll revtew the conference discussion topics and outline areas of assistance that can be provided. , 
The conference, which was part of Andy McKenna's SBP platform one year ago in which 11 schools ranging from San Francisco State to the University of Syracuse, NY will participate..The. largest delegation numbers 12, from Bucknell Umverstty, PA. · 
All of the events during the course of the weekend-long conference will be held in the CCE, and all tnembers -of the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame community are invited to attend. 
Ifa studt'nt or faculty member plans to participate in all of the events of the conference there is a fee of$3. This amount may be paid to the Student Government Offices in LaFortune until 5 p.m. today. If someone wants to attend only one. or two of the events, they are welcome to do so without registering at the Student Government Offices. 
7:30 
Welcome and Introduction to Conference 8:00 Denis Goulet: Perspectives on the Third World. Goulet is an expert on less developed countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. He is a semor fellow on the Overseas Development Council and the author of The Crt~el Choice, Toward a NEw Moral Order,and Uncertain Promise. 9:15 Small Group Discussions based on Goulet's speech. 10:15 Social Hour (planned by Notre, Dame's International Students Orgamzation.) 
Saturday, March3, 1979 
9:00 Don Luce: Human Rights and U.S. Policy. Luce is a nationally recognized critic of the U.S. government involvement and exploitation of less developed countries. 10:30 Issue Workshops: 
A.)"Non-Capitalist Development in Latin America" Profes­sor Ken Jameson, Department of Economics This workshop will present and discuss alternative models of development in Latin America focusing on the experience of Peru and Guyana. B.)"Corporate Investments: Focus On South Africa" Professor Peter Walshe, Department of Government Professor James Stewart, Department of Black Studies Jim Buy,rne, student, The present situation in South Mrica has definite implications for many LDCs. THe role of corporations, and the way that they can be effected, will be discussed for the South African case. C.)"Multinationals vs. Labor in Latin America" Professor Charles Craypo, Department of Economics the ability of multinationals to pick and choose its labor market has defmite implications on LDCs. Particular cases such as the asbestos industry, activity at the Mexican-U.S. border, Nestle's Corporation labor practices, and international labor coor.eration will be discussed. D.) 'The Church and Politics in Rhodesia" Rev. Edna McDonagh, Department of Theology. Fr. McDonagh is a visiting professor from leland who has just recently returned from Rhodesia. 
1:15 Panel Discussion Don Luce, Ken Jameson, Charles Craypo, Peter Walshe, ) ames Stewart, and Thomas McDonagh. 
3:00-5:15 Organizational Workshops (Choose two out of the three befow. Each will last approximately one hour.) 
forming Programs -presentation and discussion of group action dealing with less developed environments. Experiential Programs · presentation and discussion of study prosrams in the Third World and CILA Summer Projects. lniuating Interest Proje~.:ts • fl esentation and discussion of individual projects such as fUm festivals, urban projects, and works}.ops. 
6:45 Ecumenical Vespers Service 
Sunday, March 4, 1979 
11:00 Father Theodore Hesburgh • Concludine Speech President, University ofNotre Dame Moral and Ethlcal Responsiblity to Our Fellow Man 
[continued from page lJ 
a misprint, "the University 
could, without notice, change 
any of the rules at any time. I 
think it's to the students' 
advantage to pay the $15 (per 
semester).'' ­
Ryan noted that the $30 fee was instituted "some years ago to stop the proliferation of refrigerators on campus, which has caused a considerable amount of expense for the rewiring of halls." He added, "We don't want refrigerators on campus. The fee helps pay for the rewiring, and also to defray the cost of the extra current being used." The charge is made to students' accounts. 
Properly stated, the regulat­ion completely prohibits refrig­erators which are larger than 
4.6 cubic feet, and Ryan said that any refrigerators that exceed this size "sh9uld be removed immediately" by the rectors of each hall. 
Ryan pointed out that the reason large refrigerators are disallowed is because "P.eople ~ere going to Goodwill for cheap refrigerators, paying $15-20, and some of the ones they got were really clunkers: full of bugs, the motors were in poor condition, etc. So not only was it a hazard from a health point of view, but they were also running practically contin­ually." 
The regulation in question, from r.age 38 ofDuLac, reads in full: 'In order to reconcile the req_uirements of energy conser­vation, insurance, fire inspect­ors and the University Health and Safety Director, the Univer­sity must discourage the proli­
... u.s. 
[continued from page. 1] later on grocery store price 
tags. ,. , -New housing construction plunged to its lowest level in two years in January as housing costs and interest rates began affecting home buying. -The nation's trade deficit grew from $1.8 billion to $3.1 billion in ] anuary, the biggest monthly cfeficit since February 
1978. 
-American's personal income grew by 04. percent, about one-third of the December i increase. Consumer spending also began to slow down. -However, the unemployment rate dropped from 5.9 to 5.8 percent and orders received by factories for heavy-duty products rose by a strong 4.1 percent. 
The Observer 
announces promotions 
The Observer announced promotions of nin(7reporters last night. Taking on the position of senior staff reporters are Tom Jackman, Tim Joyce, Laura Larimore, Dan Letcher, and Pat Mangan. Accepting the posi­tion of staff reporters will be Maureen Heraty, Mike Onufrak, Neal Patterson, and Pat Toomey. 
... Misprint 
fetation ofelectrical appliances. of $15 will be assessed each All large, domestic type refri~-semester against the occupants 
. erators are prohibited. Electnc of rooms which have electric refrigerators in student rooms refrigerators of prohibited (any) must not exceed 4.6 cubic feet size ... Due to the energy short­in size and must be in good age these regulations will be operating condition. A charge strictly enfm:ced.'' 
... SLF 
[continued from page 6] Guggenheim Fellowship who has contribu~ed to the· New Xork 
Times, Washington Post, Los Angeles Ttmes, San Franctsco Chronicle, Poets ofToday, Liberator and Black World among other publications. 
On the final day, Saturday, Robert Fitzgerald will conduct an open workshop on translation in t.he li~rary lounge at. 3: 15 p. r:n, i.t 8 Saturday ntght, Fitzgerald will g1ve a reading m the ltbrary auditorium. 
Fitzgerald has published three collections of.Poems, but is best known for his translations of gr~ek cl~ssics, mcluding I-:Jomer: s Iliad and Odyssey, and Sophocles Oedtpus Rex. The festival will conclude with a reception in the library lounge at 9:30 Saturday night. 
The list of past participants in the festival is impressive, and it includes Norman Mailer, Ken Kesey, Kurt Vonnegut, Robert Penn Warren Tennessee Williams and recent Nobel Prize winner Isaac Basheivis Singer. This year's chairman, Larry Siems, says this list is helpful in enticing prospectice artists to attend. 
Meet Someone New 
at 
THE RAMROD 

free admission with college ID 
* 
dance floor

* 
pool table * OJ Buddy King 


every Fri g Sat night
511 S._ Mich St. (downtown) open till 3am. 
1----------------1 
I I 
I RIVER CITY 
I I 
I RECORDS I I I I 
I South Bend's Largest Record I I and Tape Selection I 
I I I I 
I $1.00 OFF
I coupon ....
'
I 
$1.00 off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit L Now
I thru March II, Not good on cut-outs, imports or oth~r sale items. Coupon must be presented before purchase is rung I into cash register.
I 
eND.SMC che~.:k accepted for up to $20.00 over purchase amounL 
I 
e17 ,000 albums and tapes in stock now!I e\XIhy wait to choose from a small selection?1 River City Records probably has it in stock 
now. 
==================~,~--~ I 
f ~!,~~~ ~~~J,;'l ~e~~~,?c?mP"' I
oreo '" .: ·,..
1 -dav" a we<'k 277.4242 
a---------------­

The Observer Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 6 

call3557or come to room 2C LaFortune 

ENGINEERS  
-. Let's be candid ... This is a pitch. We're looking for talent. (~,, At Magnavox Government & IIndustrial Electronics Co., we t-· want to hire the best engineers 1 and computer scientists we can find. If you qualify, and you're \ / /interested in a career with the \ . I world's leader in communica­tion sytems, Magnavox may be / for you. t That's because, in our business, an outstanding technical staff is the key to success. Magnavox has been remarkably successful because we offer small company atmosphere with large company benefits and challenge! Hence the pitch, and this ad. If you like what you see here, get in touch. Maybe both of us will be glad you did. WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS: Tuesday, March 6, 1979 Please contact your Placement Office or send your resume to: PROF£;SSIONAL PLACEMENT MagnaV"o~ Advanced Products Division (Magnavox Research Laboratories) 2829 Maricopa St. Torrance, CA 90503 An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F  

Sunshine Promotions Presents 
and special guest 
SammyHagar 


? 
---=---~ 
~ 
JUNIORS want to save $1 0? 
Last chance to make appointments for your senior pictures 
Make-ups in the fall $10 
Seats $8.50 $7.50 
Twenty-two states rally in support ofproposed anti -abortion amendm~nt 
(AP)-More than six years after the U.S. Supreme Court struck 'down most restrictions on abor­tion, the issue is stirring fresh debate as efforts continue to get Congress to amend the Consti­tution to protect the rights of the unborn. 
An Associated Press survey of the 50 states showed that legislation urging or demand­ing action by Congress has been approved in 11 states and is pending in another 11 states. The issue has stirred debate in at least half a dozen additional states. 
The Supreme Court ruled in January 1973 that states gener­ally could not prohibit abortions during the ftrst six months of rpegnancy. Since then, grou~s contending that unborn chd­dren have a basic ''right to life" have campaigned to change the constitution in order to nullify the effects of the court's ruling. 
The resolutions vary slightly from state to state. Most, however, are similar to one passed by the Arkansas legis­lature in 1977, urging Congress to call a constitutional conven­tion to draft an amendment to provide that "every person shall be deemed to be a person from the moment of conception or fertilization and entitled to (the) right to life guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution." 
A constitutional convention can be called iftwo-thirds of the states request one. Any amendment resulting from a convention · or from other action by Congress · must be ratified by three-fourths of the states to become Law. 
Alon~ with the drive for a convention to deal with the Abortion issue, a campaign is under way to call such a session to draft an amendment requir­ing a balanced federal budget. There has been no constitu­tional convention since 1787. 
A measure calling for a convention on the "Ri~ht-to­Life" issue is pending m Illi­nois. Sen. Mark Rhoads, one of the sponsors, said: ''There really 1sn' t anything more fun­damental to civil rights than a deflntion of what human life is . .l think it's subject matter worthy of debate in a constitu­tional convention.'' 
The 11 states which have passed legislation calling for a "right-to-life" amendment are: 
• • • Festival 
[continued from page I] 
verse. He was recently named editor of Poetry magazine. 
Edward Lucie-Smith said, ''There has always been a tradition of elegance in American poetry, and it is to this tradition that ] ohn Frederick Nims belongs." 
Later that night, novelist/ script writer Larry McMurty will give a reading in the library auditonum at 8, followed by a reception and then a showing of the fllm "The Last Picture Show" at 10 p.m. 
McMurty authored the novel and the screenplay for ''The Last Picture Show,'' directed by Peter Bogdanovich and starring Cloris Leachman and Cybill Shepherd. McMurty has had two other novels turned into ftlms, Horseman Pass By and Leaving cheyenne. Contemporary Authors commented, "McMurty has been responsible for revitalizing the ftlms as well as the fiction Western." 
Little known poetest Hilda Morley will give a reading and workshop in the library lounge at 1:15 p.m. on Friday. At 3:15 p.m., Ishmael Re~d w.ill hold. a worksh~p i';l the lounge, followed by an 8 p.m. readmg m the hbrary auduonum. · 
Reed 1s a black American novelist and poet and winner of the 
[continued on page 5] 
PLANTS and FLOWERS on CAMPUS located located at the CAMPUS CLEANERS in Lefvlans Haii­SMC MARCH3-6 10% OFF all corsages and boutineers WIDE selection of PLANTS make great gifts. 

For more information PHONE: 284-4841 
Arkansas, Delaware, Indiana, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Utah. 
The status of the Pennsyl­vania action, which came in 1978, is confused, however, because then-Gov. Milton Shapp vetoed the legislaton. The legislature ignored Shapp and forwarded the resolution to Congress without either the state's official seal or the governor's signature. It will ultimately be up to the courts to determine the validity of the measure. 
Dixie White, president of the Pennsylvania Chapter of the National Organization for Women, condemned the resolu­tion. "It's one of the most irresponsible actions in Penn­sylvania's legislative history," she said. 
The 11 states where legislation calling for a consti­tutional amendment is pending are: Arizona, Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Carolina, Tennessee, West Virginia and Wyoming. 

HAVE YOUR WEDDING LOVE STORY CREATIVELY TOLD 
FAMILY PORTRAITS IN THE HOME 
INSTANT PASSPORTS & APPLICATION PHOT05 
PHOTO COPY AND 2810MISHAWAKAAVE RESTORATION 
232-9963 
SOUTH BEND, IN CHILDREN ANIMALS, 

----~-----~------...... 
The Observer 
This weekend the ND-SMC Theatre wtll present ''Spring's Awakening, •' a play captun·ng the adolescent problems ofschool children. [photo by Phillip johnson] 
As war rages 
Chinese propose peace talks 
BANKOK, Thailand (AP) ­
While Chinese troops fought 
indecisive battles around a 
strategic Vietnamese provincial 
capital Thursday, Chinese 
leaders in Peking proposed 
peace talks to end the two­
week-old war. 
~he Chinese proposal to ne­
gouate was made tn a note to 
the Vietnamese Embassy in 
Peking, according to Hsinhua, 
the official Chinese news 
agency. 
The message: al?parently did 
not mention Chma's earlier 
demands that Hanoi pull its 
forces out of Cambodia in 
exchange for a Chinese with­
drawal from northern Vietnam. 
Hsinhua reported that China proposed that both govern­ments "appoint a vice minister of foreign affairs as a represen­tative to meet at an early date at a mutually a~reed place for concrete: negotiations.'' 
No immediate Vietnamese 
response to the peace overture 
was reported. 
In its latest battle communi­que, Hanoi said its troops had killed or wounded 27,000 Chinese troops since the inva­sion force drove into Vietnam Feb. 17. It also claimed to have knocked out 200 Chinese tanks. 
These claims could not be independently verified. Intelli­gence analysts say they believe Chinese casualty figures given by Vietnam are exaggerated. 
The Soviet Union on Thurs­day issued another strong warning to China. Premter Alexi Kosygin accused Peking of a brutal act of international brigandge'' and vowed that Soviet-allied Vietnam ''will not be abandoned in a time of trial." 
Kosygin, in a Moscow speech, also revived uncon­firmed Soviet reports that the Chinese are preparing to invade Vietnamese-dominated Laos, and he declared, "The policy of appeasing the aggressor must not be rel'eated. '' 
Kosygtn also rejected China's call for a mutual with­drawal of Vietnamese troops from Cambodia and Chinese troops from Vietnam, a Soviet ally. 
Japanese Foreign Minister Sunao sonoda, in his country's first expression of opposition to 
-~~--~­
the Chinese invasion~ of Viet­Kyodo news service reported. nam, told the Parliament in Many analysts in Bankok and Tokyo Thursday that China's elsewhere have been expecting actions were ''unjust.'' a major battle around Lang Son, 
Bangkok sources said Viet­an important crossroads town 
namese forces in the key Lang 10 miles south of the Chinese Son provence, 80 miles north­border. Both sides have rein­east of Hanoi, had repulsed forced their positions in the Chinese troops near the city of area with fresh infantry, tanks Lang Son and at nearby Loc and artillery, the sources said. 
Binh. The C.inese then mounted counter-attacks with tanks in the lead and scored some 
'Vehemency 
successes in both areas, the sources said. Sources in Hanoi said Chin­
highlights 
ese troops in the Lang son area launched human-wave assaults 
Logan dance
urged on by buglers, Japan's 
===========' The band "Vehemency" will Ko1C;nducts highlight tonight's dance for 
~ the area's mentally handicapp­ed sponsored by Logan Center. All students are invited to
new members attend the affair, which will be 
On SUnday 
The Knights of Columbus are sponsoring ceremonies marking the induction of members who have received the admissions degree Sunday at 12:30 p.m. in the Knights of Columbus hall. A roast beef dinner will follow the ceremonies. 
All candidates should dress appropriately. Members may ptck up their certificates and membership cards at the hall. 
Those planning to attend should contact Bill Kolb at 6708. 
Swift&Co. to interview atSMC 
Swift and Co. will be conduct­ing interviews for positions in sales and for staff accountants Monday, March 12, according to the Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Cen­ter. 
Candidates for interviews should be pursuing degrees in Business Admmtstration. 
held in the Center's cafeteria from 7:30 to 10 p.m. Refreshments will be served. Admission is free. 
Show starts at 9:30pm 
Rich Stevenson 
Bill Nielsen 
TomMindock 
Luis Alvarez 
Check out the 
• 
Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 7 

Hal/ 
RECORD Distribution will be DELAYED ONE WEEK 
due to gteatet than expected 
volume. Disttibution swAMPED will be the week of match 12. We ate 
sottyfotany inconvenience. 

OR1ENTAL 
EXPRt55 
RestauRant 
~tURIOCj: 
cantonese. chinese. VIEtnamese ano amERICan biSh€S-PR€PaR€0 i=RESh In th€ ORIEntaltRa01t10n 
caRRY out-01oe 10 
Chop Suey Spectal!! $2.75 €V€RY monbay 

, ·~ ..... •. • ""'·" .'1. r • --' -~-& -"' • .., .. _.,. 
-_______:_______________________________~____j 
9:00-10:00pm 
Anne Denny 
Jamie Goodrich &Friends 
10:00-close 
NAZZ!! 
-------------~--------­
Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 8
Editorials 
P. 0. Box Q
Selection process 
will come, it is when. Shall we we go through this lttde stage continue to allow the adminis­drama. I think Father Van Failure of the Student Union (SU) Steering Committee to 
tration to postpone that day? Wovlear said it best earlier in
I voted 
agree upon an SU director nominee illustrates a weakness in 
Shall we be. just another gen­the year when agreeing that the selection process. The Steering Committee is bound by 
eration of students who simply student input was vital in the the Student Government constitution to present a candidate 
went along and submitted or
forHymie •decision. making process,to the Board ofCommi:ssioners by March 1. Ifthe Board does shall we be the first generation though ''there has to be some­not accept this nomination, the Committee is bound to Editor's Note: All statements of Notre Dame students to one at the top to say 'this is thesubmit a second nomination by March 8. 
in the following letter were stand up and speak strongly way it's going to be' ". And IAccording to the constitution, the SU Ste~ring ~ommittee approved by Michael Heaney about student rights? 
guarantee he was not speaking"is composed of five members. The commtttee ts selected before publication. 
of the student body president. 
from among the SU Commissioners. In the nomination 
Sean F. Faircloth
Dear Editor: l guess I'm arguing againstprocess for director, the Committee reviews the applications the framework, while realizingand interviews each candidate. The Committee then votes on 
Yes, I admit it. I voted for 
that it cannot be radicallythe candidates to arrived at a nomination. In order to receive Hymie, but I did so under Inresponse altered or Notre Dame, as wethe nomination, a candidate needs four of the five votes. 
duress. I am fully aware that 
know it today, would soon ceaseAt last night's deadlock, no candidate received four votes, 
Hymie is one of the most 
to exist. Too bad the brothersand, consequently, the Steering Committee did not nominate visually offensive individuals on to elections and the alumni own this place. 
a candidate. Had the Commtttee attempted to follow the 
the Notre Dame political scene,
constitution, it would have made the nomination of "no or any scene for that matter. Dear Edt'tor: 
Chris]. Crosson
one,:' and submitted a second nomination next week. They 
He dresses like a slob and 
would have in effect tied the hands of the Board of al'pears to be dirty. Even after I'm glad to see the candi­Commissioners. In instances where a second nomination is 
hts personal assurance that he 
dates have elucidated theirnecessary, the Board must choose berween the rwo will try to al'pear more presen­Alternative
positions. Dan Portman sumsnominees. The choice berween "no one" and a second 
table, it pams me to vote for 
up the conditions of the elections nominee is the same as no choice. 
such a strange looking speci­to parietals
quite well: he describes NotreThe Observer believes that, in this instance, it was better 
men. Nonetheless, I feel that 
Dame politics as ''... the mostfor the Steering" Committee to technically break the Hymie's stand for a truly vocal Dear Editor: 
conservative, dull, apathetic at­constitution and not submit a nomination. To avoid these 
student government, a stand 
titude I ever hope to comecircumstances in the future, the Committee should devise a ascent in the platform of the This letter is prompted by what
across." True, he was actuallysystem capable of obtaining a majority when three or more other candidates, is the new we perceive to be a critical head
describing the Notre Damepersons apply. In such a system, the initial vote would approach that is necessary at in the ongoing controversy of the eliminate all candidates who did not receive any votes and student body and is attitude,
Notre Dame. Integrity forced parietals statute. Our argumentthe candidate with the lowest vote total. If a number of me to vote for Michael Heaney but in the ideal situation the for the revision of regula_tionscandidates receive the same vote total, a separate vote for Student Body President. students would be the political concerning visitation hours stems should be taken among these candidates. This elimination I feel that to understand my scene. from the success of our co-ed· process should continue until someone receives a majority. 
choice one must realize that Of course they an: not. Tony housing experience in the Notre The current nominating requirement of a four-vote compromise is a political Pace and the other young Dame Rome Studies Program.
majority should be c~m~inued. However, if a de~~lock strategy used only when the aspiring journalists at the The majority of students appre­resulted, a simple maJonty would suffice for a condmonal other stde is not holding all the Observer back (with reserva­ciate the opportunity for resi­nomination. Conditional, because the Steering Committee cards. The fact is our student tions) the Roche/Vita ticket, dence in an environment more would make it clear to the Board of Commissioners that a government simply has no analogous to the existing social
one they label "traditional". Indeadlock existed and they would like to make a second matrix. Our overwhelming senti­mfluence on the major adminis­reality, though, all but 0ne ofnomination. 
trative policies which are of ment favors the benefits of co-ed 
the tickets present very tradi­If the Board respects the opinion of the Steering importance to student life at living free of the constraints
tional platforms, and even thatCommittee, they would allow a second nomination. The Notre Dame. The administra­imposed by single sex dorms and 
one is traditional in anotherapplication process would be opened and a second tion may sometimes give us the their inherent deterrents to nor­
way.
nomination would be made. The second nominee could not courtesy of saying that they mal development. The merits of 
All of the candidates shybe the same as the first, and, ideally, the Board would have a have considered our stands, but our totally self-determined com­
away from seriously taking areasonable choice berween rwo candidates. 
the· administration always says munity should provide sufficient
stand on any topic that mightIt is unfortunate that the ~onstitution, instituted only last no. No to our ideas on student stimulus to changes at the much 
get them in trouble with theyear was broken during its first year. But this experience housing, no to our ideas on the lesser scale of mere parietalswill 'strengthen the selection process and the resulting 
Administration, that faceless
record store, no to any changes hours. We offer the evidence of changes can only be an improvement. 
melange that mediates God's
at all in the parietals system our integrated living situation as and on down the line. The a valid argument to this end. 
way for us. Father Hesburgh 

DOOIBSBURY 
.o/J Gld'ftu~­
IU BE PACKEIJ IN A MINIJ7E, 
7HANI<S. I BIJilT 7HIS
QUITe A 
· 5PR/N6REUJ. 
CABIN MY!i£1.F, 9ACJ< IN
PLACE YOU
JUST MAK/3 
/f/63. {)1/J 7HC IJEC{)I?AT!N(j
HAVE HER&,
Y()(JRSELF CtJM· 
l-.__ ANO EVERYTHING. 

~N/C&.MAYI 
YeAH, I IAJA5 TRY!N6 

answer is not•"' to -'~it quietly handing suggestions to the immutable Father Hesburgh and company so that they may say "no." 
The answer is to exert the only political force this student body has concerning these issues. We must begin to chip away patiently at the University's proud self image. The most forceful protests on issues such as parietals should come from those students who care most deeply for Notre Dame. For a great academic institution must treat its stu­dents like adults. Ifwe are ever to be accepted as adults by our university, we must use the voice of the student govern­ment, not just to speak to the slowly growing minority of alumni who are sympathetic to our views, but to all the teachers, students, and administrators outside Notre Dame whose views constitute the opinions of the academic world. Through organized ex­hibition of student body opinions, we can point out to the academic community that Notre Dame is 25 years behind the times on the issue of student rights. 
These changes we demand are as unavoidable as the introduction of women into the student body and the elimina­tion of a lights-out rule. Tn.Ie, the change won't come in five years, nor probably ten, nor even rwenty, but regardless of how long it takes, it ts clear the gucgjgp js pot whether that day speaks of the danger of throw­ing away darn good rules just so some immature kids can have their way, so none of these aspiring young politicos want to expound a seriously defiant attitude on this subject (parietals enforcement). 
Hymie is the non-serious traditional, the one that is traditional in a different sense. Porkpie hat and a good buzz before all interviews, this guy is in the same league as the newly elected student body president at an Illinois university, who ran on a ticket promising that the quad would be turned into a an ice-rink and the football stadium would be used to stage naval battles. He (Hymie) is worth more than all the other candidates combined, for at least he realizes the humor in our situation. But such a simple perception does not in and of itself make a person worthy of the office, especially at a great institution like Notre Dame. 
For such an attitude of tom­foolery is just as damaging to the election process and the power of the office as is the collective position of all these ridiculous young politicos, more than ready to roll over and play dead in exchange for one of the healthiest extracurricular rec­ords in town. 
Well, I guess I'm about finished. Just wanted to get that off my chest, 'cause it kind of bothers me every year when 
Mike MacDonald Rich Kaiser Univ. ofNotre Dame Rome Studies Program 
Caution! 
Dear Editor: 
While driving down· Notre Dame AvenuL early Saturday morning I was flagged dowQ by a motorist who had just hit a girl. Apparently she had been walking from the bars. Security quickly responded and an am­bulance came about 20 minutes later. Fortunately, she suffered only a compound fracture of her left arm, and a concussion. 
It is a wonder more people are not hit on Notre Dame Avenue. This is due to rwo reasons. First, the sidewalk along Notre Dame A venue is improperly cleared. At the time of the accident there was several in­ches of water on the sidewalk. Second, the students them­selves must be blamed. Ap­parently they feel they own the road. I have personally had to veer to the other side of the road as students attempted to hitch rides back to campus. 
Maintenance should attempt to clear the sidewalk better and student should, if they must walk on the road, walk single file into traffic so that they can see the cars coming. 
EdPoss 

The Observer -Editorials Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 9 
Concern for the Family ofMan 
President Carter's.···•·· · Catholic university sounds
policy has been · · 
like a repetition of terms · maligned by thos¢ :. · universal universality. Chris­American ''mactionu tian university seems to say
east Asia and lrao 
more but says in fact less. Forof impotence o.r "4i•r•n,•t••itn•·thl then we have to define what
administration. 
Christ stood for. The word 
din, however, lie Catholic tells us the most striking, the most revolutionary 
·of the thing He stood for, a universal­internariorutl ity of love, a uruverseof mutual tioQII of concern. action upon This may seem surprising to tions; ancl some those inside and outside the notions of the . · ·· ·.. ··· ·· · church who identify Catholics Presidential leadership. . , ·.. ··..·· · with a family-centered moral-
That we have a role to playJ·. ity. But ] esus had some of his 
s~~t~~:~:n~~~e :.ar1~re t'~ .·. .(.tor ·. .· .. ... . . < r ~~rs~he:~ f~~iii:~r ~~~:p:li~~ 
abstract, a difficult position to that.Amenc~ haS an .·. · · ·. i •• ····· their concern. He had to attack defend. If anything, recent altering·. events iri .these ...•..·· •··· the family centered-tribal ceo­events vindicate those who regions the question is how .· .. · · tered morality that went before, have argued, for many years, should be achieved. Diplomacy and the many that come after. that the internal, perpetual is one alternative, and that ha$ , The family may never cease to conflict in that regmn is a certainly been employed. J\ need defense, may need it more product of traditional rivalries symbolic show offorce migbtb~ now than ever, and sometimes and jealousies; the present: another course of action, but the claims of the family and the sifuauon is just the most recent the effectiveness of this tack is claims of the third world manifestation of that tradition. doubtfuL We could place an require the same defense, the 
Similotrly, one is hard. embargo on Iran, bucsince wti humanness of those whom we pressed to define an American need the Iranian commodity can't see or who don't look tnterest in Iran besides ensur· (oil) this doesn't m~e m'~.Jch exactly like us. We cannot ing the supply ofoil. lnfacr, the · or, we oould . . ... · •· ··. >. • however defend the family as a cutoff of Iranian oil is probably closed fortress, but rather as a a blessing in disguise as it may center of concern radiating force Amecican policy makel'S outward. to think more creatiY'ely;in this. h<''lltt>·:~n 1nr·r;·-tt:r;::• Catholic university stands realm and move beyond the na:lfaJ.••.··V4~ilseJs:iitli then for a universality of con-lukewarm. interim stnttegy QfoW cern in a universality of know­conservauon. · ledge. A necesary combination 
Toward either of that, for the problems that face tions, it was unwise·· an outfacing concern have an American governmen~ insatiable need for knowledge. taken any position at Yet, in many cases, the univer­incredible that the. sality and com,Plexity of the policy making strucMe · knowldege requ1red can have a 
continuing support for .·· . h,_ .. :,tr~~~f~lp~~;~i~~fkl~i~'.3~~· .paralyzing effect, worse yet,
in Iran and to aam.(I01:$h,i~lee .. ·.. ·.. ······ ... can set against one another the Vietnamese for topeling ·· ·· very people whose combined Pot regime, wbtch knowledge is needed for over what can onlr be . . making concern effective. as a "genocracy. ' .. . . • We have all heard the 
Asecond weak assumpttotHS refrain: Nothing can be done 
that there is some relauonship when • for developing nations until between American recognition was intolerably ·•·. populations can be controlled; of China and China's subse~ lives, bHlions of · ·• nothing can be done for deve­quesnt incursion into Vietnam. amounts of wea(iotfry loping nations until their politi­lt has been sug~ested that behind, years of nauonal .•. cal systems are more socialist President Carter lS probably cal anguish and moral · (or more capitalist); nothing can ''embarrassed'· by China's doubt, countless lives rumed be done until more food is made behavior. Why? This position and double·digit inflation in the available to them (or they can assumes rh<tt President Carter 1970's, all tolittleor no avail. grow all their own food); noth­bears some responsibility for Some would call this a show of mg can be done until rampant Chinese actions. What, how. stren~th·; others would call it diseases are controlled (or we ever, is the connection between what 1t was--an era of national stop controlling them); nothing normalization of relations seJf.flagelation and paralysis; can be done until world trade between our two nations and Perhaps William R. Frye has policies are made just or until Chinese activity in 'Southeast said .it best in describing ,Ca,r· there is more education. Of all Asia? If anythtng, Carter will ter's style of leadersh1p:-those, the only sure one is: be in a better position to "restraint and ratience 3te nothing can be done for deve­influence events in that area if manifestations o strength· as. loping nations until we stop he so chooses. How, in other much as, or more than, bopV sayin~ "nothing can be done worc!s, could he persuade a bast and two•gun swagger{') until' . All things need doing, nation to curtail its aggression . · Rontl B. Kit:RW.tfoi/· and within a umversity can be 
studied and planned for. 
More knowledge may not give us answers. It may first give us the humblin~ know­ledge that we don t have answers, that we don't under­stand developing peoples, that all we really have to offer in a particular situation is technol­ogy and it will take all our knowledge in other fields to 
0 
teach us how to give that to them in a human way. What the university offers the student is a chance to focus the various kinds of knowledge on an area of concern, to gam that focus­sing ability before he or she has to do it in an unwieldy corpora­


tion or government bureau, or lhas to asks what can an ·individual do. 
In the past it has not been academically res.{>ectable to focus general pnnciples on concrete situations. It has been considered the antithesis of universality, of the university, a destruction of the conce.Pt and possible even of the insntution Itself. I remember that when the faculty was debating taking a stand against the Vietnam war, the major argument against doing so was that being specific meant the destruction of the univesity. One professor countered that we expected people to risk their existence on fightin~ a war · a university could rtsk its existence to stop 
one.  
But  that  kind  of one-sided  
specficity,  though  urgently  
needed  in  a  national  emer­ 

gency, is not what a university needs to do regularly in order to give its students the other half of wisdom. The ability to discover or learn abstract prin­ciples is only the first half of wisdom. It is just as intellectu· ally demanding, if not as aca­demically respectable, to focus those principles on a concrete situati()n. For there is never just one principle involed in a concrete problem. There are always several principles, and they may come from diverse disciplines. Unless students see this focussing, balancing, integrating kind of wisdom 10 action, they are left on their own in later life to devleop a talent which is just as demand­ing as in-depth immersion in a specialized discipline. Yet there will probably never again in their lives be such a univer­sality of knowledge available to them as now. It is now necessary that there be only one conclusion about a concrete situation or that students agree with it, but that they see how it's done. 
With this kind of ideal before me, I see myself as a poor example, havmg to withdraw more and more into my own specialized discipline, just as I see more and more need to support in many ways--giving money, joining discussion, studying--the .Programs already available withm the university for applying universal know­ledge to universal concern. My ability to keep up with the demands of my own discipline is taking more and more time, and I am not the genius type, or bundle-of-energy type or highly organized type who can keep fitting other things in. 
I'm thankful (and lucky) that I can find in my germfree animal research the opportunity to determine if all nutritional requirements are now known, so that we can plan food programs or new foods or food supplements for developin~ nations that will enhance therr health and not jeopardize it through our j.gnorance. I'm thankful that in teaching micro­biology, I teach students who can do something about the 
health of ~e. developing world, 
and the ability of people there 
to cope with their problems in 
general. I'm thankful that what 
they can contribute to saving 
the lives of children in the 
developing world will not only 
save those children but also 
help their parents to start 
thinking about having fewer 
children. I'm thankful that 
microbiologY. offers a variety of 
new, poss1bly revolutionary 
ways, to increase food produc­
tion, while I know we cannot 
wait for these before we start 
applying the means we already 
have. 
But I'm not thankful that I have so little time for doing other thing!> inside or outside the university that affect the Third World. And I see other professors in the same bind, facing the demand for excel­lence in their own fields, the fierce competition for research grants, the increasing adminis­trative load. I look back with some envy to the anti-Vietnam war movement of the 60's and early 70's, when students them­selves led the demand for an integrated look at the war, to see what this concrete situation involved in terms of all the principles we were teaching and learning here. Cynics said they were motivated by their own fear of being drafted into an unjust war, of being per­sonally enlisted for the destruc· tion of a small, far away nation. I don't believe that, but it doesn't matter. 
Today the stakes are even higher, the risks even greater. Today the student risks being drafted, even willingly drafted, into a system, a life style, which threatens many far away peoples. It is irrelevant whether that style and system were set up for such a nefarious purpose, if they can have that effect. We need student move­ment now that will prepare students to resist such drafting or to help them transform what they are drafted into. 
In the university system itself, we use up a dispropor­tionate share of the world's resources. Whether as stu­dents we demand more social room or as professors we demand economic parity with our peer group of colleges, we do not question our right to that disproportionate share. As a matter of fact, I am not quest· tioning it here either, if what we get means that we can more easily develop the universe of knowledge essential for meeting a universal concern. For then we can give the world much more than we are pre­sently taking--if we also take advantage of what a university has to offer, if we take advan­tage of what a Catholic umversity has to offer. For we cannot Simply use our univer­sity training to take advantage of others. 
Dr. julian Pleasants 
Dr. Pleasants is associate pro­fessor of microbiology. 
either mstirurion. The 11ews is EDITORIAL BOARD 
reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnen Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chns Stewart 

Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb U:Jnghen_ry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor .... , .. Rosemary Mills per published by students of t_he Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor ..... , . . . . . . Phil Caclti_? Production Manager. , .... Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Samt bers of the community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor ...... FJ/e11 Butid'j Business Manager ........ john Tucker 
Mary's College. It does nor necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor ...... , , ...... Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. Mike Lewis 
_The Observer_ of 
The Observer . Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 10 

''There's no need 
to panic.
All vou heard 
was aPlum being
shot on court five:' 
Head proudly introduces the incredible Plum. Further evidence that racquetball will never become stodgy. 
The Plum sounds like it looks and 
looks like it sounds. Loud. Lively. Bright. Explosive. So you see it fast. You hear it fast. And the Plum's bounce is accurate. 
So you can react decisively ... 
confidently. From the moment the 
first serve explodes off the wall. 
When the folks from the surround­
ing courts come over to see what's 
going on, you can simply explain that 
you're detonating a Plum. 

Benton &Bowles, Chicago AMF HEAD RAQUETBALL Y-885 600 Line B/W NWSP Ind. Fla. Alligator, Michigan Daily Daily Illini, Observer ' Ohio State Lantern February, 1979 
Want a Headraquetballposter? 
· Just clip this adandpresent it toyournearbyHeaddealer. 

Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 11
Features 
For Intellectuals Only 
On Being a Throat 
Tom Nobrega 
Words are a little like the tips of icebergs. They are the summation, the pinnacle of a bulwark of concepts. Moreover, as ice takes on varying appearances in different lights, so do individual words have numerous meanings depending upon the situa­tions to wh1ch they are applied. Perhaps it follows, then, that a study of words may uncover a wealth of information, even insight, which the word itself only hinted at. 
Consider the word ''throat.'' ''Throat'' seems to illustrate the above-mentioned ideas by taking what has become a rather ignominious term to demonstrate a highly respectable idea. Much of the meanmg which this term has been given is rather superfi­cial and only understood among lim­ited groups of people; in view of this, ''throat'' may not seem like an ideal word to use in illustrating the analogy mentioned in the first paragraph. 
It is relevant, however, to certain aspects of university life and perhaps in it one may find meanings which necessitate a re-evaluation of one's attitude. 
It is almost trite to say that the word ·".throat" is commonly used on this campus. It is a catch-all term, applied in a variety of situations to a vanety of people. 
Originally the word was probably "cutthroat" --a term applied to some­one so single minded about grades as to actually sabotage someone else's efforts in furthering his own ends. Fortunately such extremes of charac­ter are rare. 
"Throat" is a term most often applied to anyone who seems to study excessively hard. 
There is a stigma anached to being a "throat" There are certain times and places, dictated by certain, rather msular, norms, in which one simply is not to study. This type of social pressure is what might cause a student to carry his books in an empty beer case on Friday nights, or fe~gn inebriation when admitting to havmg been at the library. 
Probably everyone would agree that it is possible to study too much. Undoubtedly some "throats" spend more time with their books than is good for them. The word may point out a certain character imbalance in some cases. When studies have become all-consuming--and not for 
Screwtape Com.es to Notre Dam.e 
Introduction: I came across this letter 
yesterday; it was slipped under my door. 
I don't know how it came to me, since it 
is addressed to: 
Wormwood 666 Perdition Boulevard Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
I ~ess ~e postal sys~em is c~pable of making ffi!Stakes once 10 a while. The letter reminded me of some letters C.S. Lewis came upon many years ago, so I felt it was my duty to publish it, just as he _published the letters he found and dedicated the volume to J .R.R. Tolkien. 
My dear Wormwood, 
I am delighted by what you tell me about the sp1titual progress being made by the students at the university. As you know, we have not had very many Fighting Irish make their residence with us over the years and it will make me extremely happy if I have a few more Darners keepmg me company. I'm sure Our Father Below will be quite happy also. I feel it my duty to remmd you that you must work day and (especially) night to develope virtues in the students that imitate those of Our Father's who is Below. 
I would like to make it clear to you, Wormwood, that you must not become impatient if the students are not being overly virtuous. It makes no difference if they take the quickest route here or if they take their ume. It only matters that you make sure they get here. You should try to instill 10 them a sense of virtue which entails developing good habits by which they should live. When you are successful, the results are obvious: fornication, gross indecency, and sexual irresponsibility; feuds and wrangling, jealousy, bad temper, quar­rels; disagreement, factions, envy; drunkenness, orgies, and party spirit. 
An area of tremendous potential is the parietal situation. Don't tackle the problem head on, but do it in a roundabout way. May I suggest that you approach this problem in terms of the freedom of each individual. Let them all know that they are free to do what they 
want and that no one should regulate their lives. It is so much more fun when they freely choose to join us here than when they struggle against us and make us work so much harder. And for Hell's sake, don't let them come in contact with any of the Enemy's propa~anda which deals with their sexual des1tes and how they can control them .. .I urge you especially not to let them come 10to contact with the Enemy's handbook which they call the Bible. I was reading it today in order to develop counter­strategies and I came across some very dangerous sayings. The tactic I fear the Enemy could use most successfully is proposed in His war manual to the Romans when it is proposed: ''Let your armor be the Lord Jesus Christ; forget about satisfyin~ your bodies with all their cravings.' This is quite danger­ous, and we must not let the students see this at all costs. If you can, you should attempt to confuse them so that they see no conflict between satisfying their bodily cravings and following the Enemy. If you can do this successfully, we will have many more Domers staying here than we proJect at this time which would result in a nice promotion for you, my dear Wormwood. 
Finally, I'm disappointed that manx still go to mass each week. It looks as if this vice may be hard to overcome, but there are ways of getting around it. First of all, if the students insist on going to mass, tempt them with carnal desires. Encourage the males to lust after the females, and attempt to have the females concern themselves only with their vain thoughts concerning their appearance. Secondly, try to distract them into thinking of more important thinss than the Enemy during their stupid ritual. Surely, their studies, parties, and various desires are more !IDportant, and you must make this known to them. 
Continue on in your good work, my dear Wormwood. Use every method conceivable in order to bring worldly delight into the lives of the students, because the unhappiness produced is of themselves but for a certain aspect of them (grades) which have almost become a barrier to learning--then perhaps this nebulous word ''throat" IS revealing a real problem. To have one's life swallowed up in books is to have crawled into a hole and be limited to the perspective given by a sort of tunnel. Singlemindedness is poten­tially hazardous. Such essentially destructive situations are generally r~re--yet the potential for such situa­tiOns IS common. 
''Throat'' may point out something besides this imbalance. There are other, more positive reasons (besides grades) for ngorous study. 
No one has much use for a teacher, priest, businessman, lawyer, or any other professional who has not, at some nme in his life, been a potential candidate for the label ''throat'' insofar as he really wanted to karn. 
Saying someone is a "thro:u" is generally considered name-call1ng and yet to many individuals it mo..~st be taken as a sort of compliment. It is an indication that .someone recognizes they are pursuing something with discipline and rigor. There are probably many "throats" who have an honest intent to learn. 
Beyond this, a throat is a potential scholar, pursuing excellence in his studies. It only seems reasonable for there to be room at a university for the person who is interested in his studies for their own sake. 
Being a ''throat'' may mean pursu­ing excellence in the classroom. The pursuit should extend beyond the confines of class however. The cncial step in the life of a "throat" thus becomes letting this goal of excellence carry over as an endeavor in all aspects of his life--a goal of becoming not merely the best student, but the best human being one can be. 
Real pursuit of excellence does not really start in the clas:sroom. It begins with a person's desire to realize his or her greatest potential. This desire can and should be carried into the class­room and in its various forms onto the football field, into social relationships, eventually to every aspect of a life. The endeavor to realize one's potential is more than a selfish desire for achievement. Eventually it must : IL umoass everyone with whom. a pnson has any sort of contacr--spme· ·., •. who strives· for exrt>lle11Le hene fits every one around him. 
Tim ~scoop 'Sullivan: 
"fire/' from their new "Dog and Buttetfly" album. crad in Oriental Heart seemed w be emulating . . $tfl~ of that latest 
~~------~­
r-···· 
The Observer -Features Friday, March 2, 1979-page 12 
letters to a l.on~ly God 
You Will See Rare Beasts 
It was eleven o'clock in the evening ~n Shrove Tuesday when young jMichael, just joining the party, said he jwould accept a glass of wine, since he twas giving up alcohol for Lent. 
"Why," said Joseph, a Practicing ~atholic in General Program, "would you, as an agnostic, give up alcohol for Lent?" 
''Agnostics need to improve them-• selves also,'' Michael replied. ''Ag­nostics also need to prepare themsel­wes for the Spring Festival. Agnostics ~eed the season of Lent even more 
han the average Christian.'' 
I have a professional interest in !words like "agnostic." Nevertheless, n my great wtsdom, I let the work lay here as though my eyes weren't 
~listening like a hooker's at the sight of a two dollar bill. 
The conversation turned secular in ts concerns: bars were talked about, as well as prom dates, and the habits of drinking and smoking. Finally, I 
pudged the word-flow in the direction pf religion. "So," I said cheerfully, 'you consider yourself an agnostic?" 
"Not really," said Michael. "I'm pot certain enough about uncertainty 
o call myself an agnostic. Agnosti­ism is a kind of faith that you can hold jwith conviction." 
At this point, Jose~h,. the Practicing ~atholic, quoted Kirkegaard. The ~econd Practicing Catholic qupted Unamuno. The Third Practicing Catholic, who thought he might also be an agnostic though he sometimes went 
o Mass, praised both the quotations. 'f!l_e Fourth Practicing Catholic went bff to take a nap. I got lost in the discussion until Michael mentioned fruitflies. 
The fruitfly' s wings glisten with color, he said, and they are cunningly designed. The agnostic can look at a fruitfly, and say: "I don't know where you came from, fruitfly, but you are certainly beautiful.'' 
''Fruttflies come from other fruit­flies," I said, wondering why the agnostic couldn't figure it out for hrmself. 
"No, they don't," Michael said, "and that's the point." 
"Oh," I said, embarrassed at my ignorance, "I thought I read some­where that fruitflies come from other fruitflies. It must have been cocker spaniels I was reading about.'' 
Joseph, the Practicing Catholic in GP, quoted Kirkegaard again. I wish I could remember what Joe quoted Kirkegaard as saying, but I'm sure Kirkegaard never mentioned fruitflies. 
"The limitation of Catholics," said Michael, "is that they have Answers. "Answers can be a comfort, but sometimes they rob the mind of its power to wonder. An agnostic can wonder about fruitflies, because an agnostic simply has doubts; whereas a theist, by his Answers furnished by faith, has robbed himself of an occasion to be mystified.'' 
"Fruitflies," I wanted to say, "were arranged for, along with trees bearing fruit, on the third day of creation. Either that, or they had their origins in the plagues sent by Moses to Egypt.'' Presenting such an insight would, I knew, be playing the game into Michael's hands. I wondered, since he was so impressed with fruitflies, if he could imagine a sunbeam in rapture over a cherub's brightness. 
"Wonder," said Joseph, "points to 
a reality beyond itself. Wonder 
creates a passion that leads us to the 
assent that is faith. Wonder is not a 
destination that you stop at, but a 
pathway that the heart travels up­
ward." I hope Joseph spoke words 
like these, though some of the words 
might be my own. I love Joseph so 
much that I always hope he might be 
as clever as I am. 
We talked of the sad history of 
Christianity, and the ugly things that 
faith can lead a man to do. I said I 
thought it was not faith, but politics, 
that had led the Church into excesses 
like the Inquisition; that I w.ould rather 
follow the faith of a saint, like Francis 
of Assisi for example, than the faith of 
a pope who has turned politician. 
"Ah," Michael said, "you choose well in your Christian eclecticism. Francis, more than all the rest, was full of wonder at the world." 
"There's no need of deifying won­der,'·' I said, like one who is protesting the worship of alien gods. ''How about the absurdity of things? How about the absurd trick that nature plays on us by letting us grow old? The problem for the flgnosttc, with the sense 6f wonder, must be to account for the pain." 
''The suffering of children,'' said Michael, "made an unbeliever out of Camus." 
"Christ came, not to explain our suffering, but to fill it with his presence.'' I was quoting somebody who I'm sure wasn't Kirkegaard. 
"Does it mostly come down to dogma?" Michael said. 
Fr. Robert Griffin 
"In all the dogmas," I said, "and in all the creeds, there are not words enough, nor ideas enough, to tell us of God's glory. Theologians say we know more of what God isn't than we know what He is." 
"Are you telling me," Michael said, "that you don't know what God is?" 
"Even the saints, who have seen God, haven't told us what He is," I said. "They always say, in speaking of their visions, that words fail them. Language does not exist that describes the Being of God." 
''At least the theist and the agnostic agree on something,'' Michael said. Then --because it was midnight, Ash Wednesday, and time for Mtchael to give up dnnking for Lent -· we shook. hands with one another and with the two Practicing Catholics and the Semi-Practicing Catholic. We even woke up the Fourth Practicing Catholic from his nap so that we could shake hands with him. 
The member of the group were bri~ht and sharp with their doubts ane: l their Kirkegaard. Unfortunately, in writing about them, I remember my own lines best. All of us together I think, share a faith in wanting to have a passion at the wonder of things. 
Auden writes: He is the Way. Follow Him through the Land of Unlikeness; You will see rare beasts, and have unique adventures. He is the Truth. Seek Him in the Kingdom of Anxiety; You will come to a great city that has expected your return for years. He is the Lzfe. Love Him in the World of the Flesh; And at your marriage all its occasions shall dance for joy. 

Why Don't We just Give It Up andGo Get Stoned 

PBS (Channel 34) "Nova"; March 4, 10 pm. The potential of nuclear fusion, a promise for the future that the U.S. is spending over one million dollars a day on. Although deemed the most difficult scientific challenge of the century, the availability of controlled nuclear fusion energy is an irresistible dream. "Academy Leaders"; March 5, 9 pm. "Don't", a 1974 documentary, traces the life of a caterpillar as it turns into a butterfly; "Closed Mondays" uses masterful clay animation to show a museum come alive; and ''Floating Free" gives a gracious tribute to frisbee playing at its best. "Hollywood Musicals"; March 6, 9 pm. "High Society" stars Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, Grace Kelly, Celeste Holm, and Louis Armstrong m this musical remake of ''The Phila­
, delphia Story", featuring a score by 
1 
1 Cole Porter. The film is a 
. sophisticated comedy about a million-aire's attempt to win back his ex-wife-­on the day before her remarriage. "Hollywood Musicals"; March 9 9:30 pm. "Singin' in the Rain" stars Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor, and Debbie Reynolds in this 1952 classic about Hollywood in the twenties. Featuring 
· .nany memorable dance and comedy .·outines, the film follows Hollywood's l ransition from silent films to 
1 
'talkies." 
j Movies Off Campus 
The Late Great Planet Earth; Boiler 
House Flix I,II. Starring Orson 
Welles. Hal Lindsey's book on the end 
of the world is brought to the screen. I 
wonder if the film will be any more 
believable than the book. It might be 
worthwhile just to see Welles, if you're 
tired of his wine commercials. 
1 
Same TimP-, Next Year; Forum!. Starring Alan Aida, Ellen Burstyn. a l bittersweet romance between two; people who see each other only once a I year. I can't imagine either of the two J stars turning in a bad performance. 
Anna Karenina; IUSB Little Theatre. March 2, 8 pm. $1 admission. ' Superman; Town & Country I. Starring Margot Kidder, Marlon Brando, Christopher Reeve. $40 million to make a man fly? I don't believe it. Fast Break; Town & Country II. Starring Gabe Kaplan. The ad reads "His dream team's got a preacher, a jailbird, a pool shark, a muscleman. And the best guy on the team is a girl." Who knows? Every Which Way But Loose; Forum 

III. Starring Clint Eastwood. East­wood parodies his spaghetti westerns and Harry Callaghan tough guy image as he and his orangutan make their way across the country fighting and causing all kinds of hubbub. Halloween; River Park. Starring the &ogey Man. If anyone has seen this :film, they'll know what I mean. Madman causes terror in a small 
Illinoi.s town and a small Soudi Bend dratre. The Warriors; Scottsdale. A look i.rBde the violent world of gang "MMlfare and terrorism. I don't know howtrue-to-life it is because I've never had the experience, not that I care to, ofgang violence. 
Performance Off Campus "Vanities"; March 2,3,8,9,10. 8:15 
pm. !USB Upstage Theatre. Jack Heifner's modern comedy that revolves around three women at different periods in their lives. Tickets are $2. 50 at the IUSB Box Office in Northside Hall from 1 to 5 pm. Call 237-4396 for more information. 
The Outlaws; March 2, 8 pm. Morris Civic Auditorium. Special guest Wireless. Tickets are $8, $7. Ketchum & Segal, Classical Duet; March 9, 8 pm. Bendix Theatre. Reserved seats $4. Northern Comfort; Friday nights, 6-10 pm in the Village Inn on 31N.. Saturday nights in the Village Inn on Hickory Road. ND students Tony Aquilino, Bill Florriano, and Julia Perry perform folk music every weekend. 
Movies on Campus Heroes; March 3,4. 7,9,11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Henry Winkler, Sally Field. Identification Mark: None; March 5, 7:30pm. Washington Hall. Last Picture Show; March 8, 10 pm. Library Auditorium. The Great Gatsby; March 9, 10. 7.9:30, 12 am. Engineering Audi­torium. Starring Robert Redford, Mia Farrow. 
Performance ON Campus "Spn·ng 's Awakening"; March 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 10. 8 pm. O'Laughlin Audi­torium. ND-SMC Theatre's production of the Franz Wedkind play. $2. Call 284-4176 for reservations. 
Nancy Wand/and, soprano; Roger Briggs, piano; March 4, 3 pm. SMC Little Theatre. Manhattan Piano Tn'o; March 7, 8:15 pm. Library Auditorium and Lounge. 
Sports Bengal Bouts; March 4, 2 pm; March 8, 8 pm. ACC arena. Reserved seating for quarter and semi finals, $2, General Admission, $1. 50. Student three-day season ticket, $2; adult, $4. 
Other Knights of Columbus Disco; March 4, 9-2 am. K of C Hall basement. $1 admission for continuous music, disc jockey, lighting, soda. 
Dave Gill 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
March 4, 
8 pm. Reading, Allen Ginsberg, Washington Hall. 
March 5, 
1:15pm. Or.en Workshop, Allen 
Ginsberg, Library Lounge. 
2:45 pm. Open workshop, David Marner, Library Lounge. 
8 pm. Reading, David Mamet, Library Auditorium. March 6, 
1:15pm. Open Workshop, William Gaddis, Library Lounge. 
8 pm. Reading, William Gaddis, 
Library Lounge. 
March 
1:15 pm. Open Workshop, Donald Hall, Library Lounge. 8 pm. Reading, Donald Hall, Library Auditorium. 
March 8, 
1:15 pm. Open Workshop, John Frederick Nims, Library Lounge. 
2:45 pm. Reading, John Frederick Nims, Library Lounge. 
8 pm. Reading, Larry McMurtry, Library Auditorium. 
March 9, 
3:15pm. Open Workshop, Ishmael Reed, Library Lounge. 
8 pm. Reading, Ishmael Reed, Library Auditorium 
NOTE: Come now, people. Doesn't anyone care about the cultural future of fellow students? All you need is a sardonic wit. Even if you don't have a wit, it's kind of fun. Kind of. Call Chris Stewart or me if You're interested in taking on a small responsibility. 
-· ~ --­
The Observer -Features Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 13 


-
The Observer Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 14 
On Middle East 
Arabs attack Carter's policy 
A spectrum of introductory and advanced courses. worl~-· 
shops. and seminars in the arts, earth sciences, educa­tion, engineering, the human­ities, social sciences, and sciences and mathematics. Summer session runs June 25 to August 18. 
All students in good stand­
' ing ore invited to attend. For a course bulletin and applica­tion form, moil the coupon below to Stanford Summer Session. [3uilding 1, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94.305. 
i979 
Please send me the Stanford University 1979 Summer Session Bulletin. 42 
ADDRESS -------------------------------­-------------STATE -~~--~ZIP---~ 
BEIRUT,LEBANON (AP)­American Foreign policy in the Middle East is coming under attack from Arabs of the left, right and center. Even tradi­tional friends are grumbling. 
Basically, President Carter's administration is caught in a squeeze between those who say Washington is not doing enough and those who say it is interfering too much. . 
Since the Islamic-leftist revo­lution in Iran swept the Ameri­can backed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi off his throne, Washington's allies in the Arab world have expressed concern about the strength and sincerity of the U.S. Committment to them. Recent Developments Include: 
-Crown Prince Fahd of Saudi Arabia abruptly postponed a mid-March trip to Washington that Carter had hoped would soothe Saudi anxietes over security in the Persian Gult and 
Watch: The Secrets of Fat;ma 
a 1 3 part T.V. series 9 AM Sunday, Jan. 28 thru Sunday April 22 
WNDU-TV 
Channel 16 
U.S.-sponsored peace talks be­tween Egypt and Israel. 
-Morroco's King Hassan threatened this week to turn to Moscow to buy weapons be­cause of what he felt was U.S. dallying on arms requests. 
-The foreign minister of oil­rich Kuwait added his vice to the leftist chorus denouncing statements by Carter aides that the United States would inter­vene militarily, if appropriate, to project its vital oil mterests in the Middle East. 
-)ordan' s King Hussein has taken an increasingly critical view of the Camp David accords between Israel and Egypt. 
After the fall of the Shah, most Arab regimes do not want to be identified too closely with the United States. The Iranian Islamic revolution has caused these governments to become more sensitive to public opinion at home. 
And some observers say the continuing stalemate in the American-sponsored Middle East peace talks has strengthened Arab suspicions that the United States is back­ing a loser in Egyptian Presi­dent Anwar Sadat. Many Arab leaders also believe that Israel is not genuinely interested in a just peace settlement. 
Most dismaying to America's allies is a growing l'erception of the Carter administra­tion as indecisive and bumb­ling. 
As an example, after U.S. Energy Secretary ) ames Shle­singer said it was conceivable that America might intervene militarily in the Middle East, Vice President Walter Mondale denied any U.S. intention of establishing a military,resence in the Persian Gul . This prompted prominent Beirut columnist Michel Abu ) awdeh to comment: 
"This is not strange, because Schlesinger is President Jimmy Carter before noon anc:f Mon­.dale's President Carter after noon.'' 
A growing concern among Arab political observers who are not unsympathetic to for­mula of playing on anti­communist fears and trying to assure stability by sending more weapons. 
"Arabs, by and large, have been as averse to the Soviet thesis that the immediate threat to the Arab is Western imperialism as they have been toward the Western claim that communism is the paramount enemy,'' said a recent commentary in Beirut's Middle East Reporter weekly. 
These observers see America's arming of the Sadat regine as a potential replay of its foreign policy in Iran. 
At the same time, however, the Carter administration has been criticized by Arab friends for not supplying enough arms. in addition to complaings by Morocco's Hassan, the Saudis reportedly were miffed that the United States has refused to supply weapons to the Somalia reg1me of Siad Barre, who kicked the Soviets out . 

-
C'mon, Fighting Irish diseover the Walt DlSriBi"World Spring Fling! 
It's a terrific combination --you, spring break, and Walt Disney World, where there's more recrea­
tion, entertainment, and sheer spec­tacle than anywhere in Florida! 
Roar through the galaxy on Space Mountain . . . sail with a crew of plun­dering pirates . . . and surround yourself with the fun and fantasy of the Magic King­dom's six themed "lands"--all in the middle 
of 43 square miles of vacation fun! 
Magic Kingdom operating hours are extended March 11-24 (9 a.m. -10 p.m.)*, so there's plenty of time to make this year's migration magic. Best of all, we're only a 
few hours away from nearly any point in Florida! 
The Walt Disney World Spring Fling-­make it part of this year's break . . . and make some memories. 
*Saturday March 17 and 24: 9 a.m.-midnight 
Walt JV)isneYi!~~~~d s-Adventm• Ticket 
Book: ss.so 
..... 
-· 
------· ---­
The Observer Friday, March 2, 197? -page 15 


Gas stations itnpletnent rations; oil co111panies predict crunch 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) • With the spring driving season still ahead, many Indiana service stations already are facing tighter gasoline supplies that soon could force them to close early or shut down one day a week, a spokesman said Thurs­day. · "It's ~etting tighter all the time,' said Curtis Robertson, executive director of the Indiana Service Station Dealers Association. ''The criticalness of the situation is going to be facing us much sooner now." 
Robertson, whose association represents about one-third of the 3,000 service stations in Indiana, said oil companies already have cut supplies at the retail level to as httle as 70 percent of what dealers had a year ago. 
Of the major oil companies servin~ Indiana, all but Mara­thon Od Co. already are allocat­ing gasoline to service stations. ~obertson sai~ Phillips 66 sta­tiOns are gettmg_ only 70 per-

Brad Houser read poetry as a part ofthe Sophomore literary festival last night in the nazz [photo by Phillip johnson} 
Positions on the 1979-80 
OBSERVER NOW OPEN 
contact Rosemary at 7471 
and submit astatement on the position 
that you are interested in 
. 
deadline for applications 3:00pm Fri. ,March 2 

cent of last year's supplies at this time, and Shell stations 9.2 percent. ~ 
How serious the shortage will be is uncertain, he said, de­pending on a('cion taken by the government. That should be known sometime this month, he said. 
"Somewhere between the first and the 15th of April, I think you will see a definite crunch,'' 

Women 
(students, facultyand staff) are invited to attend the 
Women's Alumnae Weekend Sat. Seminar March3 1-3 .library auditorium 

informal reception follows 
Good Things 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD 
&CLEVELAND ACROSS FROM THE 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
11-11 MONDAY-THURSDAY 
11-1 AM FRIDAY &SATURDAY 
12-11 SUNDAY 
TELEPHONE 277-5300 
"A NOBLE IDEA ... 
PARTY WITH PIZZA ! ! " 
----------COUPON --------­
1 $1.00 OFF I 
I ON ANY LARGE SICILIAN PIZZA I 
~ 0~~~~2!:!!:_E!~~!.~--.;'!!'!_~!f'.!.R!~~~!J 
·----------COUPON I
• ----------·
I PITCHER OF BEER $1.50 I 
I I 
1 WITH ANY LARGE SICILIAN PIZZA OR I I 16"or 20" HAND TOSSED PIZZA I 
II ONE COUPON PER ORDER OFFER EXPIRES 3/15n9 I 
"-....,.~......-.,_,...._,.........,.,...._.~""""~,....~...-..... L------------------------• 
-----______________________... 

I 
I 
! 
I I I I 
I ,
I 
, _______________, Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 16
The Observer-Sports 
I \ Spartans take over Big Ten lead 
MINNEAPOUS, Minn. (AP) -without a shot for the first three Indiana St. 79, SIU 72
I BUlla Sh€0 I 
Jay Vincent scored 25 points minutes and 12 seconds. The TERRE HAUTE, Ind. (AP) ­and Gregory Keiser added 23 closest the Buckeyes came the . 
Larry Bird scored 25 points and 
ll r:w . ! 
Thursday night, leading fourth rest of the way was the final Carl Nicks added 22 Thursday5:15massanOsuppm ~II ; ranked Michigan State to a three point margin as Wiscon­
night as top-ranked IndianaI 76-63 Big Ten basketball sin,. 5-12 in the Big Ten and State rallied from 9 points down 
I this ~Ribay CC!npiS triumph over Minnesota. 11·15 overall, won its third in the first half and beat1 The victory moved Michigan game in a row. 
Southern Illinois· 79-72 in the\ anb €V€RY rRibay miniStry I State into sole possession of 

~---------------' 
miLANO'S PIZZA 
10%Discount on ANY Pi.z.zQ 
match 2,3,and 4th 
Delivety to N.D.Clnd 
s.m.c.· 
Weekdays 4-11 Weekends 4-1 815 w. mc~jnley 256-1853 
One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. 
When you come to live with us, you obMrve and 
participate In our community life for Mveral y..ra befora 
making a final commitment. You observe that we are a 
religious community following the charfam of St. 
Augustine and "that together and with one heart In 
brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship 
God and that we labor ·in the service of the people 
of God." We serve In colleges, high schools, parishes, 
foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals 
and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. 
VIllanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
Villanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525-5612 
Na~·------~--------------------------­Add~aa---------------------------------
Clty___________State•________...,Z.Jp.______ 
Soh~l or Ooo._____________,..g••----------­Phone._________________ 
semi finals of the Missourifirst place in the conference. Michigan 61, Iowa 53 Valley Conference tournament.
Guard Earvin Johnson contri­Indiana State, 28-0 for thebuted 21 for the Spartans, who IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) ­season, will play here in the
raised their record to 13-4 in sophomore Mike McGee spark­nationally televised conferenceconference play -a game ahead ed Michigan to a fast start and championship game Saturdayof both Iowa and Ohio State,; the· Wolverines jolted 11th­afternoon. The winner willboth of whom lost Thursday . rated Iowa, 61-53, Thursday receive an automatic bid to thenight. night, knocking the Hawkeyes NCAA tourney.
Michigan State, 21-5 overall, out of first place in the Big Ten led 37·28 at halftime and never conference basketball race. let Minnesota get closer:. than Michigan raced to a 20-4 lead five points in the second half. midway through ·the first half, 
and never trailed, although
Purdue 55, Indiana 48 
Iowa tied the game three times 
... DePaul
Joe Barry Carroll fired in 21 in the second period. points and Brian Walker hit McGee scored 10 points in 
[continued from page 20]
three clutch free throws as the first 10 minutes and finish· 
Purdue fought off rallying ed with 21 to lead all scores. in depth, the benchless lJemons Indiana, 55-48, Thursday night will have the good fortune iQ to stay in the Big Ten basket­playing at Alumni Hall in the 8 ball chase. p.m. televised game. DePaul 
The victory lifted Purdue's has won 27 straight in its own record to 22-7 overall and 12-5 Irish womenfall bandbox (5,308 capacity). in the Big Ten, one same out of Ironically, it was Notre Dame the league going mto Satur­atstate tourney which last defeated DePaul at day's wmdup at home against home, when the Irish won a Ohio State, Indiana fell to 17-12 Last night the Notre Dame 76-68 contest to close the overall, 9-8 in the conference. ' women's basketball team lost in 1976-77 season. 
the first .round of the state ''To win at Alumni Hall, one of 
Wisconsin 76, Ohio State 73 
tournament, 69-64 to Franklin the toughest places to P.lay in Claude Gregory scored 23 College, the defending state college basketball, we wtll have points and W es Matthews champs. to play our game -· which is added 21, leading Wisconsin to The leading scorers for the tough, phrsical inside play and a 76-73 victory over Ohio State Irish were Carol Lally and Tricia a contro motion offense," Thursday night to knock the McManus, with 10 points claims Phelps. "If we let them Buckeyes out of a share ofthe apiece. Lally also led the Irish get ahead early ... well, it's a 
Big Ten basketball lead. in rebounds with seven. long ride back to South Bend.'' The Badgers jumped to an · Notre Dame ends its season It's an even longer ride to 8-0 lead, holding Ohio State with a 16-6 record. Pontiac. 
.. . Bengals 
[continued from page 20] can't be cornered because of his eager to fmish his Ben~als roving style. Owens has a right career with a championshtp.
145 Pounds: Boxing officer which cannot be overlooked. Sophomore Mike Pullano is aWalt Rogers has been an 149 Pounds: Tony Ricci is one hard-working bouter with excel­"almost champ" for two years, of the most talented boxers to lent power inside. Terryso he is more than hungry for a join the boxing club in recent Rogers is a former West Pointichampionship this outin2. But years. Mter capturing two cadet and two-time runner-up..
there's alot standing in his way championships in as many He will surely make his pre­with die likes of"Steve Heidle, years, the junior has a chance to sence felt with a stinging nghtTom Bush and Jim owens. 
be only the fourth pugilist ever­upon which his fame has beenHeidle is a ROTC cadet and to win four Bengals champion­built.
built like a fireplug, and his ships. But both Mark Roetzel 177 Pounds: Last year'sboxing style is the same as he and Jim Mladenik have the freshman phenom was 185 lbs.
likes to get inside with combin­tools to pull off an upset. champ Neal Elattrache.
,ations. Bush is a lefty who Roetzel mixes it with the Elattrache blazed his way to the 

Buy Classlfiedsi ftom 
The ·Observer 
.................
......... 
''B 

LEG TIM''
' 
............,.. .....,.. 
.................... 
.......................... 
"Friends of Tim Grothaus" 
up best, and Mladenik bobs and finals with an awesome ris.ht weaves ala Joe Frazier style. and quickness in the ring. Mike 
152 Pounds: Brian Kilb was Melbinser and Jim Whitmer 
dethroned as champion last are boxmg veterans looking for year and is eager to recaeture their first championship. the championship. Mike Heavyweight: Left Jeff Caira 
"Boomer" Norton lives u~ to is another who earned a his nickname as he can ml.X it Bengal's crown in his first year. up with anybody and he can Powerfully built, the 6-2 senior take a punch too. has a stalking style. Rugby 
157 Pounds: Two former footballer Kim Uniacke would finalists, both from the South like to take a championship to Bend area, are the top pros­Ireland as he travels with the P.ects in what has been called a rugby team immediately follow· 
'killer division." Boxing club ing the finals. First-year boxer officer Stever Mynesberge Sean McCormick is 5-11, 215 packs a potent right and dis­pounds, and uses all his muscle plays excellent combinations. to get inside. 6-3, 210 lbs. Tim Pete DeCelles is known for his O'Neill rounds out the heavy­brawling style and stinging weight competition. 
punches. And there you have it ... These 
162 Pounds: A returning people have got an "inside champion, a returning fmalist track" to the finals slots. But and a bruising novice boxer. there : _:: sure to be some What more can you say but "be upsets from those hungry 'irst­
~here when those~sts fly." Jim boxers who have fine tuned 
Devine was the\ surprise their bodies and minds into champion in this "''ild division great shape. last year. He is li quiet but But that's what the competit­
forceful southpaw,' Runner­ive spirit is all about, and that's up Tom Plouff utilizes a long what the Bengals are all about. t~ach and strajgh punches. You'll see some sore noses, 
novice houter Bruce Belzer is some black eyes and perhaps a 
trickle or two of red--but above 
~tocky and has good combinat­tons . all else look for the hugs, the 
handshakes and the smiles167 Pounds: Irish defensive which make every loser aback Tom Flynn is one of the winner, and every winner amost exciting boxers in the better man.
club. Upset last year, he ts 
--· 
-------~-------------­
The Observer Friday., Maa:h 2, 1979 -page 17 
--~-~--· . 

-
"I've got Pabst Blue Ribbon on my 1nind." 
C 1979 PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis. and other cities . 
• iiiliiiiiiiiiiiililiiiiliiii•liia8iail•aaliiiiB•IIIE!!fiJI!IIIiii!!EI&IilliliB~c~~: · ----......--..
.. 

,....------------------------------------------~------------­
The Observer -Sports Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 18 

[continued from page 20] 
Smith, "concerning a final weekend of play. Everyone is trying to figure out where they can finish and there are so many possibilities it's. hard to predict. It'll be an exciting weekend.'' 
Right now, though, there are three possible ways for Notre Dame to get home ice for the first round: 
1. 
If Notre Dame sweees Wisconsin this weekend, it will move threeJoints ahead of the Badgers an get home ice. 

2. 
If Notre Dame splits with Wisconsin and Michigan Tech sweeps Duluth, the Irish will move one point in front of UMD and get home ice. 

3. 
If Notre Dame splits with Wisconsin and Duluth loses and ties, Notre Dame and the Bulldo~s will be tied for fourth. The Insh will get home ice, however, thanks to a sweep of UMD three weeks ago in the lone series of the year between the two clubs. 


As you can see, the home ice picture has changed drastically from a week ago for Notre Dame. There will be no room for error or any letdown on the part of the Irish. 
BRADENTON,FLA. (AP)­Dave Parker, the Pittsburgh Pirates' $4. 5 million outfielder, kept a battery of news reporters and some 200 fans cooling their heels Thursday for three hours before notifuing the club that he was "under the weather" and would not report until Saturday. 
The delay was disappointin~ and embarrassing to the Pt­rates, who had arranged for a grand appearance of the National League's Most Valuable Player to possibly overshadow Pete Rose's debut Wednesday with the Philadel­phia Phillies.: _"Dave will_ b,e here -don't 'Wd'rf9'~about tt, ' said General Manager Harding Peterson. "It is not in Dave's character to stay out without a purpose. He has the greatest attitude in the world." 
New reporters and photogra-
Molarity 

-
I 
HEY La:K-SftCIAL 
I LATELY WE V£ 'BEEIJ CDMI!tli 
DINIJER.: •.MAKE -'1tl.J£-0AAJ
I -UP Wffil cREAll\JE. SIDFF LIKE
I 
57EAt.::-IJI6HT''-l WONDER
•/o\4k'E ·Y~ · OWN · SUN tw: ~ CR. 
,, FR:?T. YCX)f<:.. 0~. GlJPCAI<.'ES I 
WHAT IH.A:i IS ? 
,.................... ~····;r·•··· .................... .. --.......... ...
~ 
• • .leers 
WCHA SrANDINGS  
W  L  T  TP  
North Dakota  21  9  0  42  
Minnesota  19  10  1  39  
Duluth  16  10  4  36  
Wisconsin  17  11  2  36  
NOTRE DAME  17  12  1  35  
Michigan Tech  13  14  3  29  
Denver  13  15  2  28  
Colorado College  10  18  2  22  
Michigan State  10  20  0  20  
Michigan  6  23  1  13  

"I think after two tough series with UMD and Minnesota,'' offered Smith, "we were mentally tired last week at Denver. I just hope we have gotten the bad play out of our system and that we can start fresh this week as we head into the playoffs." 
Both these clubs met Dec. 8-9 at the ACC where they split an exciting series. The Irish won the first night 8-2 and lost the second 7-6 m overtime. 
If there is any incentive for Notre Dame to get home ice for the upcoming playoffs, it is a matter of studies. If Notre Dame doesn't get home ice it will have to_go straight to the first playoff series from Madison, or for that matter, stay right here a few extra days. 
Then if they get by the first round, the Irish will go straight to the next series, which will more than likely be away come March 10-11. That could mean 11 straight days on the road, not healthy for any player's course load, or for this wnter's for that matter. 
In other WCHA action this weekend, North Dakota attempts to capture the league championship at Minnesota, Tech is at UMD while Denver and Colorado and Michigan State will play home and home to finish the year. The Nodaks need only two points to clinch the crown. 
Neither game of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin series will be broadcast back to South Bend. 
Parker leaves reporters , fans waiting 
phers stood around the Pirates' spring training headquarters awaiung the arrival of the ~arne's highest aid athlete. He ts receiving an estimated $900, 000 per year. 
"He will certainly be here ifl know Dave," said Manager Chuck Tanner, who went through a similar experience many times with the unpredic­table Dick Allen while mana­ging the Chicago White Sox. 
The Pirates' players, in their gaudy gold and black uniforms, joked among each other over the absence of the 6-foot-5, 230-pound slugger, who won the National League batting title for the secOfld straight year, with a .334 average. 
Also on hand was Tom Reic, the Pittsburgh Lawyer who negotiated Parker's contract, which could pay the outfielder, with attendance clauses, more 
Michael Mollinelli 

than $1 million by 1982. 
Parker left Pittsburgh on Feb. 18 on a banquet swing, which was to take him to Cincinnati and Atlanta. He ws was to fly in from the Georgia capital for Thursday's reporting time. 
Peterson, Reich and Tanner all said they were in the dark about Parker's whereabouts. But all felt he would be on hand momentarily. 
At noon, Peterson announced that Parker had .phoned a secretary in the office, .appri­sing her of his delav. 
College b-ball 
SEC Tournament 
Defending national champton Kentucky, hitting 68.3 percent, edged Alabama 101-100, and Auburn got last-minute layups from Bobby Cartage and Eric Stringer to outlast Georgia 95-91 in four overtimes Thurs­day night in the Southeastern Conference basketball tour­nament. 
Kentucky, which got its win­ning margin on freshman Dwight Anderson's two free throws with 8 seconds remain­ing moves into Friday night's semifinals against SEC champ­ion Louisiana State, the nation's No. 8 team. 
ACC Tournament 
Senior Jim Spanarkel sank two free throws with two seconds remaining Thursday to stave off a furious Wake Forest rally and lift No. 5 Duke to a 58-56 victory in the opening round of the Atlantic Coas.t Conference basketball tournament, 
In the second game Kendal ''Tiny'' Pinder poured in 20 



UCLA 79, UC 68 
,------------~---. points to lead North Carolina State to an 82-78 win over a determined Vir~inia team, which rallied 10 the last minutes. 
LOS ANGLES (AP) -Senior Guard Brad Holland scored 2 5 points and David Greenwood added 22 Thursday night as the 1third-ranked UCLA Bruins rol­led to a 79-68 Pacific-10 basket­lball victory overy the California Golden Bears. 
The Observer Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 19 


1Classifieds 
Ail cldsslfred ads must be recerved by J 00 p rn two ddys pnor to the rssue in whrch the ad rs run The Observer offrce wrll accept classilreds Monday through Frrday 10 00 am to J.OO p m All cla,srfreds must tJe pre·pard erther rn person or thrOU[lh the marl 
John "Panama Red" McGrath, Happy 21st Pumpkin head IBS. Love, You thought I was kidding, but I'm Mosy. not--You are gonna diel Aflectionately, SKELETONS!! 
Scoop Come out of the closet. Ton1ght at Senior Bar. Kelly Babes-­
This is your very own personal. Who Babe, said we didn't love you?! (Now I'm the I love you as much as the Integral from only one who doesn't get personals'!! I) minus Infinite to positive infinite of n to 
Congratulations on getting through the then. dn. week. Don't worry. life is bound to get 
Happy Birthdayr better. Feb. is over and break is only two Butter finger weeks away! How light will your hair get this year? ABCD 
Your (sometimes) roommate ABCD ABCD Wanna know who Is playing who in the ABCD 
NCAA tourney. Listen to the College ABCD Basketball report Sunday nile at 6:30 on 
WSND am 640. Anxiously Awaiting. 
You've tempted me. but what is YOUR Jane Knight is a political groupie. What desire: to see father's ideas proved-or , other girl has been pictured with two disproved? I SSP-elects? 
MissS. 

For Sale 
Beautiful Bassett Puppies. 6 wks. old, AKC, papers, shots, wormed. $135. Profs. 0'Antuono/Gindras. 287-2586. 
For Sale: I have 2 Michigan bus packages. These include tickets, beer, food, and the ride. Bus leaves Sunday morning. I'm willing to sell just the lix if need be. Call 8106. 
For sale: Ovation acoustic/electric guitar with case. excellent condition. $350. Brian at 288-2129. 
Must sell Atari video game low price. My car Is wrecked and must get money to fix 
II. Call 1783 for info. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. ' 9-7. Ralph Casperson, 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles. 683-2888. 
otices 
Riders wanted to the Garden State (where the a1r Is clean and the grass is green.) Leaving late 3/14 or early 3/15. Going to Central N.J. Call Joe at 8460. 
Attention May Grads 
Friday. March 9. Is the last day to apply for a Morrl11ey Loan. No exceptions. 
Dead night out Song list 
Terrapin Station. Promised Land, That's What Love Will Make You Do, Rain, Truckln'. Deal. Big Iron, He Ain't Give You None. Friend of the Devil, You Win Again. Turn on the Bright Lights, Ripple, Mexlcall Blues. Sugaree, They Love Each Other, Looks Like Rain. Passenger, Casey Jones. St. Stephen, Jack Straw, Chlnacat Sunllower, I Know You Rider, 
For Rent 
Need really big sound for your next party? Two Peavey loudspeakers with 300w mixer/amp. Adapts to any srstem for great sound magnification. Cal Bob. 3634. 
Furnished four bedroom house for rent for next school year. couple blocks from campus. 2n-3604. 
Walk to campus. 6-bedroom house for rent this fall. Furnished. Nice. Call 272-1729 after 7:00. 
House for rent, 3 blocks golf course. $75 mo. fireplace. Available Sept. 233-1329. 
Wanted 
Need ride to Washln~ton D.C. Can leave 

r---------~------------------------­
S}20rts 
DePaul exceeds expectations 

by Paul Mullaney Assistant Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame fans ftrst caught a glimpse of the 1978-79 Irish basketball schedule, they anticipated this weekend as a super season finale and an excellent\ preparation for the 1-l"CAA tourney. 
While DePaul (Friday night) and Michigan (Sunday) would both be teams to .reckon with, the Wolverines were to be especially tough. They were picked in the top ten by most pre-season pollsters, and with Phil Hubbard returning from knee surgery to join Mike McGee and Company, they were expected to give Michigan State a real run for the Big Ten crown. 
s? much for pre-season prog­nosts. 
While Michigan will still provide a formidable opposition m Sunday's nationally-televised (1 pm) encounter at the Pontiac Silverdome, it is DePaul that could be the real thorn in the side for the Irish. The Blue Demons of former Notre Dame star Ray Meyer have more than made up for the loss of star center Dave Corzine as they have recorded a 20-4 record. And, more importantly for the midwest independent, they appear to be in good shape for an NCAA bid, based on their recent 61-60 victory over Marquette. 
"This is a very good basket­ball team," notes Irish .coach Digger Phelps of the 15th­ranked Demons. "They're a very good one-on-one team. They have the proper combination of speed, strength, shooting and rebounding necessary to beat any team at any time. 
"Take the play of Mark A~uirre, for example. It's a tnbute to the coachmg ability of Ray Meyer who can take a freshman and teach him to play major college basketball and, in fact, lead a very talented team in the scoring category.'' 
Aguirre, netting 23.6 points per outing, not only leads his club in point production, but also ranks as the highest sconng freshman in the country. The 6-7 product of Chicago's Westinghouse High School is also averaging 7.6 rebounds a game, second highest on the club. 
"He loves to work the lane, but can also handle himself quite well away from the bucket,'' says Phelps of Aguirre, who has been described by many as the next Adrian Dantley. "He loves to pump fake, and is much quicker than he looks." 
The Irish, who will celebrate the return of a healthy Kelly Tripucka, will also have to keep a dose eye on Aguirre's supporting cast. Senior guard Gary Garland and sophomore cohort Clyde Bradshaw, both from East Orange, New Jersey, are no strangers to Irish defenders. They both played on last year's DePaul squad which fell to Notre Dame, 84-64, in the final game of the NCAA Midwest Regional, after they handed the Irish a 69-68 overtime loss at the ACC during the regular season. Garland, who leads the team with 94 steals and 148 assists, is second in scoring with a 16.6 average. It was his last-second 22~footer which beat the Irish at the ACC last year. Bradshaw, second in assists with 126, is averaging 11.1 points a game. 
Curtis Watkins and ] im Mitchem team with Aguirre to give the Demons a very potent and physical front ltne. Watkins, averaging 16.0 this season, ranks fourth on DePaul's all-time scoring list. The 6-6 senior also leaas the team in rebounding with 8.4 caroms a contest. Mitchem, a junior transfer student from the University of Denver, is probably Meyer's most improved ball player. The 6-9 center, who usually posts high, is scoring at a 8.5 clip and rebounding at a 5. 7 pace m his first year at DePaul. 
While the Irish, now 22·3, will have a definite advantage 
[continued on page 16] 
Friday, March 2, 1979 -page 2b 


Seven returning champs highlight Bengals 
byLeoLatz include a span of 12 divisions MacDonald is a <larkhorse ~. Sports Wn"ter and approxiamately 80 students 130 Pounds:] oe Viola, a strivin~ for that coveted class runner-u~ in last year's 120 lbs. 
Soon it will be tournament champwnship. The aspiring division ts ready, willing and time at Notre Dame. No, the boxers have been training every able to take it all. But he will Irish aren'r hosting final four of day since Christmas break. have his hands full with Robert the NCAA basketball playoffs. Division by Division the fight Rivera and Mike Mazurek This Sunday at 2:00 p.m. the card reads as follows: hungry· for the title. Rivera is a Bengal Bouts wi11 be center 125 Pounds: All the boxers in dancer with excellent hooks, stage at the Athletic and · this competitive lightweight while Mazurek is a 3rd year law Convocation Center's basket­division are veterans, so look student with Golden Gloves ball arena. for lots of fast and furious experience. Look for novice 
With a field of seven return­action in this class. The top Bob Murphy to add to the ing champions, 14 past finalists prospects include two returning competition at this weight. and a group of contestants finalists and last year's 125 135 Pounds: Boxing officer ranging from Irish defensive pound champion, Rocky ] amie Shreiner and Greg backs to Notre Dame rugby Romano. Romano has plenty of Grantham are the favorites. players, this year'·s Bengal strength and power to repeat, Shreiner is a success story in Bouts should be as exciting as but faces a stiff challenge from his own right. He was handi­
1978 finalists Darryl Reyes and capped as a child, but has won
The action f!Jil/ be>#rough and plentzful the Bengal Bouts ever. NBC-TV will add to the 
Doug Borgatti. Reyes is speed the battle and will be in there
begin preliminary round on Sunday. electricity surrounding this 
personified, while pound for for the race to the champion­
========================= year's bouts, as Sportworld
plans to televise the 49th pound Borgatti may be the ship. Grantham is a southpaw edition of the Bengal tourney. strongest boxer in the club. with lots of power. _ The boxing extravaganza will Returning veteran Chris {continued on Page 16] 
Track team hostsfinal meet 
by Mark Perry earlier meets. There is also Battle Badgers 
Assistant Sports Editor chance that other Irish runners 
could go to the meet with 
Norr.e Dame will be hosting outstanding performances this 
Notre Dame icers battlefor home ice 
their final home meet of the weekend. indoor track season, as Ken­For the rest of the Irish team, by Brian Beg/ane against the Badgers of we could still finish as high as tucky State and Illinois­the meet will provide a chance Wisconsin. tied for second. We could also 
Sports Wn"ter 
(Chicago Circle) invade the to turn in some strong perfor­With Notre Dame dropping finish as low as filth, though, so ACC this Saturday. The meet is mances in preparation for the two critical games last week at it should be an interesting scheduled to start at 12 noon, upc,'ming outdoor season. Madison, Wis. · This is it. Denver and Wisconsin sweep­series. Wisconsin has a very and admission is free. Notre Dame will also be trying There is no tomorrow. To have . ing at Colorado College, the fine team, and playing at the 
The meet will be a final to improve their season record home ic:-for the playoffs, or not Irish now find themselves one Dane County Cohseum will be a tune-up for the Notre Dame in regular meet, which stands to have home ice for the point the Badgers in ftfth place challenge in itself.'' runners who have qualified for at 3-1 thus far. · playoffs. That is the question. and one point away from the With a five point lead over the NCAA Indoor Champion­The Irish team will be It's a question the Notre Dame home advantage for the ftrst sixth place Michigan Tech, ships, which will be held in traveling to Alabama over .hockey team has but one more round of the WCHA playoffs Notre Dame cannot drop any Detroit's Coho Arena next break to open their spring chance to try and answer March 6-7. Wisconsin s:eorts a lower than its present position weekend. competition. The Irish have affirmatively before it actually 17-11-2 league record for 36 of ftfth. But four points 
The two-mile relay team several invitational and relay ftnds itself in the playoffs. The points, tying if for fourth with separate the four teams from (Chuck Aragon, ] ay Miranda, meets scheduled for this Irish will begin to put their Duluth, while Notre Dame fol­second to fifth place, leaving it Rick Rodgers, and Pete season, including the Kansas answer together here at the lows right behind with a 17-12-1 anybody's guess as to where Burger), the distance medley and Drake Relays. The Irish Dane County Memorial WCHA mark for 35 points. ~ey will be after Saturday relay team (Aragon, Ken will also be hostmg the Central Coliseum tonight and ftnish it ''This series with Wisconsin ntght. Lynch, Burger, and Tony Collegiate Conference meet this tomorrow when they fmish it will, of course, determine "I don't think I have ever Hatherly) and . Aragon in the season, which will be held on tomorrow when they ftnish up where we stand for the play­received so many calls," said 880-yard run have all bettered their newly installed all­the regular Western Collegiate offs,'' notes Irish coach Lefty WCHA Commissioner Burt the qualifying standards in weather track. Hockey Association season Smith. "If we get the breaks [continued on paji!e 181 

···"1&5 Ztii>¥¥!4CWQJ. &_·_ ~<f4~
-=· 





