
. . . Poetry in Motion -page 4 
WEDNESDAY, AU 
David arrives in Georgia; heads into South Carolina 
SAVANNAH, Ga. (AP) -Hurricane David found this historical coastal city with 70 MPH winds yesterday, knocking down trees­and power lines and flooding low-lying streets before heading further inland into South Carolina. 
There were no immediate reports ·of injuries as one of this century worst Atlantic storms hit the U.S. Mainland a second time in two days. 
Thousands had fled their homes along the coasts of Georgia and South Carolina, although another 5,000 in the storm's path had ignored an order to evacuate. 
Th~ storm gathered strengt~ as it swept up the coast from Flonda, and moved ashore agam after 90 MPH winds and a 6-foot storm tide lashed barrier islands near the South Carolina-Georgia border. Forecasters warned offlooding in low-lying areas because tides were already running up to 10 feet above normal before the storm surge. 
Bu~ David had lDost much ofthe power that smashed the Central Flonda Coast and left more than 800 dead during a trek through the Caribbean. 
Police said damage was widespread in Savannah, a colonial city of 120,000 with its ante-bellum houses and museums. Homes businesses, and hospitals throughout the city lost electrical J.>OWe; and water service at the height of the storm. Firefighters trymg to put out the blaes started by sparks from downed power lines were hindered by low water pressure. 
The first unofficial damage estimates made in the Central Florida Coastal Area where David hit hardest on Sunday totaled more than $60 million. Gov. Bob Graham said he would seek Federal aid for the heawy dmaged areas. 
Savannah Mayor John Rousahis said, "We were very fortunate. The hurricane lost some strength as it came inland. Water is cut off, we have some flooding...but other than that, even thou~h there are inconveniences now, people are in fairly good shape. ' 
"~e haye lost power,_ we're on emer~ency power," said Danny Smtth, Dtrector of Envtronmental Servtces atCandler Memorial Hospital in Savannah. 

To talk of riKhts 
Sadat, Begin to discuss Palestinians 
HAIFA, Israel (AP) -Egyp­prime minister. saluted by a squadron of Israeli­quickly cleared away the de­tian President Anwar Sadat, The Egyptian leader said he built Kftr jet fighters flying in monstrators, who were protest­sailing in aboard his luxury came to "consolidate the gains tight formation. ing the planned evacuation of yacht for a round of summitry ·we have achieved on the road to Driving away from the dock, their Sinai city of Y amit. Two 
had chained themselves to a
with Menachem Begin, promis­peace." the official motorcade was 
ed yesterday to bring the Israel Radio reported, how­cheered by thousands of Israeli fence. Palestinians under ''the' um-­ever, that the Sadat-Begin talks schoolchildren waving small . The Egyptian leader began 
brella of peace. " might produce one significant Egyptian and Israeli flags. his visit on-the ftrst anniversary of the opening of the Camp
But Sadat avoided any men­new agreement -on how to Sadat also was welcomed by the David summit that produced
tion of Palestinian "nghts," replace a United Nations peace­city elders with a traditional the code word that has come to keeping force being pulled out Jewish bread and salt cere­the key groundwork for the 
of the Sinai Peninsula. Efyptian-Israeli treaty.
mean an independent state. mony. 
After a warm greeting at the Sadat's 475-foot presidential The lone note of discord was In his arrival statement, 
Sadat renewed the vow of "noquayside of this Mediterranean yacht, accompanied from a small demonstration by about more war'' for the Middle Eastport city, Sadat appeared to set Alexandria by -three Egyptin a dozen Jews outside the hilltop that he first voiced during hislimited· goals for his three-day warships, was escorted into this hotel where Sadat held a cour­
breakthrough journey to
visit, his third in Israel and his northern Israeli port by 10 tesy meeting with Israeli Presi­Jerusalem in November 1977_.
eighth meeting with the Israeli Israeli missile boats and was dent Yitzhak Navon. Police 
His visit, Sadat sid, was ''another step in the hold pursuit for peace ... Never again 
Robinson working on problems will there be bloodshed and suffering. Never again will human lives be wasted in a futile conflict."
Long lines plague both dining halls 
He seemed to give Begin a vote of confidence, sayin~. "By
by]ohn Gruesser said. ''ln the beginning it is the answer for this year is ·'no now I know Premier Begm, and In an interview yesterday, always worse. We have one change.'' I think I can do business with
"We nave two opttons, ·· h.
Notre Dame's Director of Food problem and that is Monday, tm. " 
Wednesday, Friday lunch." Robinson said in response to
Services Robert Robinson The most vexing problem the 
Robinson said the problem was the question of feeding 500 new ·
commented on the presence of two must discuss ts the slow
students. "A student can go to
long lines at both dining halls due to class scheduling, creat­pace of negotiations for Pale­
either dining hall now and this
and listed options available to ing a 12:15 rush, which he stinian autonomy in the Israeli­
the Food Services for accom­compared to, ''pouring a ~allon is a plus ... (but) since this was occupied West Bank of the modating the 500 additional into a pint sieve." He satd the started 300 to 400 meals a day ) ordan River and the Gaza students the University will only solution to the problem is Monday through Friday have Strip.
been transfered to North
admit next year. to change the academic sched­Sadat pledged to "sprt;ad the 
(Dining hall), although the
"We are always working to ule, but added, "I don't know umbrella ofpeace to include the alleviate long lines,'' Robinson how far this was explored, but [continued on page 2] Palestinian people. 
VOL. XIV, NO. 7 
Dorms adjust to new party guidelines 
by Maribeth Moran StaffReporter 
New guidelines concerning the consumption of alcohol by srudents are causing problems with the 'planning of social events in residence halls, according to several hall staff members. Under the new guidelines, each dorm must set aside one room in the hall for social functions where liquor is to be served. The guidelines took effect Aug. 20. 
Section parties as previously understood are outlawed. Pri­vate parties in rooms may still be held, but there is to be a limit of twenty persons per party, according to the direct­tve. 
Roemer's directive calls for each rector to submit his hall's proposal outlining the proced­ure for holding such an affair. The directive goes on to outline conditions under which a party might be held including specific days and times, restrictions on guest size, and a clause stating that non-alcoholic beverages must also be served. 
Two clauses of particular interest to students. One states that violations ofthe party room guidelines should be handled by the rector or the Hall Judicial Board. 
Another guideline states, "the Office of Student Affairs reserves the right to revoke the privelege to use the party room, if in the opinion of the lilean of Students or the Vice President of Student Affairs, serious abuse of the requirements of the guidelines and/or the indi­vidual hall procedure has been involved." This clause effec­tively gives the Administration the right to cancel party room priveleges at any time. 
The directive has sent hall staff and rectors hurrying to draw up proposals for parties as well as designating a particular area "the party room. " In dorms where existing social space is already tight, this might lead to a choice between aparry room or necessary study and recreation space. 
In addition, no .nention of funding is made in the directive · for the renovation of existing social space in~o party rooms. 
Lyons Hall ~Pc ·or Sr. Marietta Starrit sited that the hall "was just in the !:'' ocess of putting a proposal together. We do not now h.we a party room as we do HOt have the social space." 
According to Sr. Marietta the dorm must overhaul its past party policy since its old section party ordmance has become obsolete under the new guide­• lines. 
According to Father Yario 
Pedi, St. Ed's Hall rector, plans 
for the St. Ed's room are 
progressing smoothly. Pedi 
said he feels the party room 
[continued on page 2] 
~ 
,
, 
.~ 















News in brief 
Wednesday, September 5, 1979-pa~e 2 
Irish police apprehend • • . Dining halls 
[continued from page 1) choice of eating facilities and (the economic situation) should
Salinger in IRA o_ffice raid 
would regret having to . force keep the number (of offcampus
(overall) totals have remained

. ~00 to 400 students back to the students) using ~.he Food Ser­BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP)-Pierre Salinger, former the same. Next year these South Dining Hall. vices where we are now.'' press secretary to President john F. Kennedy, was arrested 
(additional 500) people will go Robinson"s secona optton IS The five-meal plan -offers to North. That means 300 to lengthening the serving hours, with a French television crew here yesterday when police and lunch Monday through Friday; 400 extra meals plus 500 more particularly at dinner. "OurBritish troops raided an office of the Irish Republican Army's the 17 meal plan offers threefor North. One option would be charts show a peak period from political front, official sources reported. Polic_e would not meals a day except for Saturday reassigning students (to a spe­5 to 5:30. We could alleviateconfirm or deny tha't Salinger and a Paris-based film crew of evening and all day Sundy, andcific Dining hall) so that the that by opening earlier~ at 4:45the American Broad,astin_g Company were detained in a the 21 meal plan lS fuJI board. 
same number would eat at or 4:30." ---· -' police swoop on a commumty center used by the front, Sinn "Whether because it is closerright Commenting on the possibility Fein, in the Ballymurphy district, where officials of the North as now." to the Notre Dame Apartments
However, Robinson said he of expansion, Robinson said,movement were talking with the news team. A _police or in some way more conveni­believes in giving students their ''We have good seating now,spokesman said "Amencan and other foreign journahshts" ent," Robinson said, "these and Sinn Fien officials were detained in the swoop and the 
about two students for every meal plans are traditionally sold "foreign journalists" will likely be held in the rr>lice 
seat. Dinner is the only meal to the South Dining Hall.'' interrogation center at Castlereagh in East Belf-ast ' for a 
we find we are running out_ of
.... Dorms 

seats." He did state, however, that short stay.'' 
[continued from page 1) 

the North Dining Hall was built Rooms
proposal is better than the for expansion. Although he overcrowding at section parties. said that he had not seen the The game room on the first plans, he believes there exists a 
Iranian o_fficialsorderclosing 
• floor of St. Ed's is tentatively contingency plan for expanding become
o_f AP o_ffice in Tehran 
designated as the party room. the building over Old JuniperBoth Lewis and Morrissey Rd. TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -The Iranian government yesterday 
Halls are just beginning to Robinson noted that the Food ordered the closing of the Associated Press office m Tehran 
investigate the implications of Service is feeding more stu­available and the expulsion of its four American reporters, including a 
the new guidelines. According dents, including those who live former Indiana newswoman. An official accused the AP of 
to Bro. Ed Luther of Morrissey, off campus. "Contrary to other Male students on the housing carrying "basically untrue" reports about the fighting 
a student committee within_ schools we are buildir.g and waiting list should contact the between troops and Kurdish rebels in western Iran. It was 
the hall has been set up to deal people wish to live on campus housin~t office before Monday if the latest in a series of expulsions of Western journalists by 
with the situation. and this means we are busier in they w1sh to secure on-campusIran's revolutionary government. Dr. Ali Behzadnia, foreign 
"Although nothing is firm, the dinin~t halls. ' ' H<' des­housing. Fifteen empty resi­press chief of the Ministry of National Guidance, said the AP 
the situation looks positive,'' cribed this as a "'nice prob­dence hall spaces for men have could apply at the Iranian Embassy to accredit a new 
Bro. Luther said. lem." "Off campus plans are been reported. After Monday,correspondent to be ~_>osted in Iran. "We are not closing the 
Lewis Hall's staff recently up," he said. "The five, 17, the housin~ office wilJ disre­AP forever," he sa1d. In New York, the AP issued a 
started work on the problem but and 21-meal plans offer an gard _the pnority list and assign statement saying: "We are not aware of any inaccuracies in 
like several other dorms, could atractive way to serve the housmg spots on a random our rei>orts from Iran. As the government requested, we will 
offer no further comment at this economic problem ... and this basis. apply for new visas at the Iranian Embassy in Washington. 
ume. We welcome the government's assurance that this is a temporary action. However, we regret very much this 
. h Ob SAINT MARY'S 
T

unfortunate disruption of coverage of a major story of 
The Observer 

-e server-OFFICE NEEDS:
worldwide significance.'' 
Night Editor:Scoop [again!!] Asst. Night Editors: Suzy Marshall, Ann Monaghan 

DAY EDITORS FEATURE WRITERS
Pregnant panda dies o_f 
Layout Staff:Hilary Clement, 

NEWS WRITERS
Susie Eckelkamp, Darrell 
Nolan, Laune [fivm Walsh] 

SPORTS WRITERS LAYO-UT STAFF
Features Layout: Kathy Con­

in_fection in Tokyo zoo 
nelly, LaBerge 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
Sports Layout: John Smith TOKYO (AP) -Japanese panda-lovers were doubly 
MEETING McCandless Piano Room 
Typists: Paul Mullaney, Mi­

saddened yesterday by the death ofthe giant panda Lao Lan ­
cheline Santella, Kathy Mur­

an autopsy showed she was pregnant, something zoo 
ray, Mark Perry 

WEDNESDAY NIGHT 7:00 
specialists had been trying to ach1eve for years. The playful 
EMT: Kim Convey 

FOR MORE INFO CALL
11-year-old Lan Lan fell ill last Friday with what proved to be­
Day Editor: Keith Melaragno 

a kidney infection. She died of uremic poisoning early 
ELLEN 4689 MARGJt; 4161
Copy Editor: john McGrath 

yesterday, de_spite round-the-clock efforts by veterinarians to 
Ad Lavout: Strange Guy 

save her. Officials at Tokyo's Ueno Zoo said X-rays and an 
Photographer: Mikey Bigley 

autopsy found that she was carrying a fetus four inches long 
I-----------------~JUST FOR THE RECORD 1
and weighing 1'lz ounces, with a 11h -inch tail and nails 
The Observer [USPS 598 920] Is 
published Monday through Friday ex­

already grown in its paws. They said the sex could not be 
1· ~ 

In the 100 Centet offeta I
cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s'College. Subscriptions may be 
determined. 

1 • IO%offon 
I
purchased for S20 per yur [S10 per aemnterl from The Observer. ~.0. box 
Weather 
I 

EVERYTHING I
Q, Notre bame, Indiana 46556, Second

Mostly sunny, warm and humid today and Th~:~rsday. _Fair 
class ~· paid, Notre Dame, In­
diana ,

and warm w1th highs both today and tomorrow m the m1d to 
I with ID & coupon 
I
The Observer Is 1 member of the

upper 80s. Lows Wednesday night in the mid 60s. 
Associated Prea. AD reproduction rights are reserved, 

TAPES, PARAPHANALIA .1 
W€ ' R€ Back! 

12: 15 pm SEMINAR "model systems in neoplastic dis­eases," dr. morris pollard, GALVIN AUD. 
the nazz PResents. • 
• 
12:15 pm FILM "anthony burgess's rome," 242 O'SHAG, for faculty preview 
wronesoay, 9/5 OP€Tl StaG€ 

7 pm SUMMER PROJECT PRESENTATION sponsored by 
UlURSOay 9/6 ]eann1e RitteR 9:3o­
cila, LfB. LOUNGE , 
~IOay, 9/7, ~ney '79-to B€
7 pm FILM "peter ustinov's leningrad" & "anthony burgess's rome," A V THEATRE CCE, for faculty preview 
announc€0
SatuROay, 9/8

7 pm ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING sophomore literary festival, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
RICh PReZIOSO 8-9:30 
7, 9, 11 pm FILM "dirty harry," ENGR. AUD. 
Rich Stevmson/Oan B€R€Tlato 9:30 -1 • 
7:30 pm AUDITIONS for ''stop the world, i want to get off,'­
BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE PHONE 4763
122 CROWLEY 

NO CHARGE, STOP BY
8 pm MEETING pre-law society, UB. AUD. 
& HEAR SOME GREAT MUSIC!
9 pm BUSINESS MEETING, K OF C HALL 
' 
r 
' 
I ' 
IL___-_ 
---~--~­


The Observer Wednesday , September 5, 1979 -page 3 
For campus safety 
Security officers train in sutnm.er program 
by jim Summers 

To further enhance the quality of campus safety, thirty Notre Dame security officers and seven Saint Mary's officers took part in a five-day training program this past summer. 
Last January and February, Security Audit Incorporated conducted a review of cenain security features at Notre Dame As a result of the review, a series of one, two and three­hour courses were offered fo­cusing on various security measures. The in-house train­ing courses which were held July 23-27 at the Law building, were taught and overseen by Security Audit personnel, the Security Director of SMC and Notre Dame Security Director Joseph WalL 
Among those involved in the program from Security Audit Inc. was its president and owner, Robert 0. Murphy, a 1951 Notre Dame graduate and former FBI special agent. 
Another Security Audit co­ordinator of the program was Frank W. Matthys, a 1936 graduate of Notre Dame Law School and training coordinator of the FBI's Chicago Division from 1955 to 1964. 
Curriculum for the program included ''Public Relations-­The Security Officer's Respon­sibility,'' a course designed to emphasize "the imponance of the security officer as a visible 
representative of the University." 
Another class listed on the course schedule, "Patrol Tech­niques," and stressed "the need for acute observation'' while patroling the campus. 
Other courses covered cenain defensive and arrest techniques and various legal aspects per­taining to the security officer. The course ''Crowd Psycho­logy'' taught the officers how to understand and handle a ''large and possibly restless student group." 
· In reviewing the program, Security Director Wall .com­mented, "the program was very useful, especially in build­ing the morale of the officers. They received a little more knowledge and confidence in their responsibilities as a secur­ity officers." Grounds Officer 


Tito addresses nations 
HAVANA (AP) -President Broz include all countries, not just· Tito of Yugoslavia, patriarch of the big powers. the Non-Aligned Movement, Tito, seated before some 
urged his Third World col­1,400 delegates , in the new leagues yesterday not to take "Palace of Conventions" said sides in superpower conflicts he took the "strenuous trip" to and to avoid internal bickering. Havana because of his interest 
The 87-year-old leader, who in preserving the unity of the helped found the movement a movement. quaner century a~o, told the The tone of Tito's remarks, non-aligned summu meeting on which stressed independence its second day that detente and togetherness, contrasted between the United States and sharply with the strident open-Soviet Union -"in a state of 
[continued on page 6]

serious stagnation" -must 
9I6 we apologize the film distnhutor goofed twK:e in a row! Intro to Cinema Series ~Mon and Four Director Series thurs~ 
will begin the week of Sept. lOth 
UNION SERVICES COMMISSION 



plant sale 
wed. and thur. from 9am to 4: la.fortune ballroom and 
Oriental Art Exhibit and Sale 
until Friday from 9am to 4:30pm Lafortune 
Jack Moulder agreed with Wall whether this type of program remarking, "The program was will continue at Notre Dame in · excellent, a thousand times upcoming years remains a 
better than the normal kind of question, but Wall suggests seminar. It was intensive and. such training _programs should extensive. They had a great persist in the future. Neverthe­core of people conducting it. less, those involved with this We put in about 31 hours past summer's program agree beyond.regular duty and it was that it was indeed a benefit to 
worth it.'' campus security 
Tke Student ll_nion plant sale, which began yesterday, contmues today tn the LaFortune ballroom. [photo by Mike Bigley] 
**~****************~************** 
~ Hepresentatives of t;ampus Groups;· 
* 'd Or . . k d * 
; an ~amzat1ons are as e to ; i please submit a student Activities i * ~ form to be approved by the office i* * of student activities. * 
i This must be don~ by th~day in i
* --'\ . ,. .'.. * 
; order to have a booth ~ in Stephan ; i center on Monday, Sept, 10. i i* For more info, read the notices i* * in the Student Activities Office. * *•********************************** 

c l• -t­
~ 
%~ I:D~ 
•
•m z ,.. 
zo .. 
~~. 
Z:r: X " 
c--n •
)loX
z--.. 
-
)lo ~ ­
• z "' 
§ ­
... •
•" 
,~ 
,
,
,
,
,
, 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
, 
,r 
' 




Features 
Wednesday, September 5 , 1979 -page 4 
Poetry in Motion 
Scott Curtin 
To many people, the mention 
In commenting upon the of dance once conjured up performance to be given,images of awkward fox trots in Associate Professor Rathburn,high school gymnasiums or the who teaches Shakespeare at 
annual broadcast of ''The Nut­Notre Dame, said, "It is impor­
cracker'' at Christmas. Recent­tant to the understanding of ly, however, the audience for the program to have at least dance has grown rapidly, some knowledge of brought about in part by mass Shakespeare and dance," thus exposure through television, stressmg the collaborators' the press, and the formation of feeling that one must actively many regional companies in think about what they are 
parts of thl country with no seeing and hearing in order to previous dance backround. fully appreciate the intricacies The nev wider acceptance of the presentation. enjoyed by dance today has 
Through the presentation ofgiven many choreographers these scenes from the plays, byand companies the audience reading and dance, the relation­and resources to explore differ­ships between the characters
ent and ori~inal concepts in dance,1often to conjunction with and their emotions are ex{>lored 
and illustrated. Music 1s notother arts, such as literature, used, ~but rather, the rythmsmusic, and painting, to name and harmonies of the wordsjust a few. 
themselves serve as accompan­Ann Dunn, the director of the iment.
Southold Dane Theater, and "Dance has three levels--"Associate Professor Paul A. 
said Ms. Dunn in reference toRathburn of the University of her work, "--that of the chore­Notre Dame English Depart­ographer who creates it; the~.ent have r,ut together S';Jch an performer who adapts and in­toter-arts program, toter-­terprets it for himself; and thepreting vignettes from several audience, which views it andof the plays of William thus makes it their own. WhatShakespeare through interpre­we are trying to do is to educate tive dance and dramatic read­and expose people to dance as atog. 
very complex and exciting artThe objective of the program, form.''
an original concept ofMs. Dunn undertaken as a summer pro­The dance segment of the ject, was to select scenes from program will be performed by the plays of Shakespeare which two members of the Southold would be adaptable to dance. Dance Theatre; Ms. Dunn, the Made possible by funding re­director and founder of the ceived through a grant from the company, and Marcia Indiana Arts Council, the pro­Heintzberger of Mishawaka, a duction uses original chore­dance with the company. ography by Ms. Dunn to inter­Dramatic reading will be done pret scenes from six by Ron and Lynn ] acoby, two Shakespearean plays which local actors. The performance were chosen by Associate Pro­is scheduled for Friday, fessor Rathburn; A Midsummer September 7 at 6:30 p.m. in Night's Dream, Richard III, front of the Rockne Memorial Much Ado About Nothing, Building on the South Quad. Ih Macbeth, Henry W (parts one Ann Dunn andMarcia Heintzberger rehersing for a special presentation ofexcerpts from the event of rain, the event will and two), and Hamlet. the works ofShakespeare to be presented at Notre Dame this Fnday. be rescheduled at a later date. 
CILA : A Summer in Appalachia 
The cries come now from Appalachia, but they are echoed -across the land 
-across the earth in the suffering of too many peoples. Together these many sufferings form a single cry. The Living God hears this cry and he tells us 
what long ago on a different mountain he told his servant Moses 
I hear the cry of my people where is the deliverance? In the eyes of a child delighting in his creation Hand molded from the tediously wrought 
creek-day · inscribed "I love you, Mom" It will be a surprise Taylor smiles, revealing day-speckled teeth 
in a grey-flecked face. 
And on the front porch a withered woman. sags, 
And I will deliver you out of the hands of only her eyes alive: . 
oppression. 
But where is this deliverance? In the sunken eyes of a 20 year old mother of three 
alone, swelled with child again. dark, .dank room. urine and fly-odors mingling with the heat of the summer blanket the room. 
the woman, the children. 
The faces of Applachia are many, But tied together always by the mountain chain. 
as they dance w1th stones 
of men long dead. 
''This Land is Home To Me'' 
Catholic Committee ofApplachia 
Appalachian people are descended from early Amencan settlers whotiredof the crowds in eastern coastal settlements and trekked up rugged mountain peaks and down through Indian-ridden thickets in search of privacy. Once they found it, they snuggled into their valleys, pulled the mountains up over their heads, and basically ignored the rest ofthe world for several hundred years. · Vicki Dennis America Magazine 
Approximately eighty miles east of Cmcinnati, on the banks of the Ohio river directly across from the state of Ken· tucky, lies the town of Manchester, Ohio. Manchester is unique in Adams County in that it boasts nine bars in three blocks, and a police force of one. Manchester was also the location of St. Mary's Church, my home for my month-long CILA summer project. The poorest county in Ohio, Adams County is dominated by two major industries; the Copeland air Conditioner factory, and Dayton Power and Electric plant. Most of the working age people, however (65 percent) lived on welfare. Thecountyseat is located in the town of West Union, where Holy Trinity Church housed Father Roland Hautz and the male Glenmary volunteers. Father Hautz, together with his assistant, Fr. 
] im Dupont, ran all of the five Catholic Churches in the county, and coordinated work among the summer volunteers. Summer Scene, the day camp run by a parish couple and a few lay volunteers, occupied almost all of my time for the frrst two weeks ofmy project. We began by canvassing as many homes as we could to inform people of the upcoming free camp. This game me my first valuable opponunity to meet and talk with people living in ~ountain homes. 
Nancy Dise 
Reactions to my visits ranged from open and friendly to supsicious and hostile. Few of. the people in the county are Catholics (most are Baptist), and almost none of the very poor are. However, the Catholic influence in Adams County is strong and growin$. A Bible school run by the sisters to Manchester, for instance, is well established, as well as a rummage house the day cam~;>. a craft shop, and a system of home visits for the sick and elderly. The values taught in these pro~rams are Christian, rather than specifically Catholic, and have helped ease suspicions and reservations about the Catholic faith. By Monday morning, after only a weekend of canvassing, we had approx­imately 60 children at Summer Scene. The number increased for a few days, then leveled off at astead~0-65 per day. These children were picked up every day at their homes and driven back; in most cases requiring 2-3 hours per day of the drivers. This srnall sacrifice gave us a fine opportunity to get to know the children better, see their homes and meet some of their parents. · 
Summer Scene began every morning at 10 a.m. on the farm owned by Dot and Bob Times, about 7 miles north of West Union. Being short of staff, I and 
[continued on next page) 
, . 
The Observer-Features 'Wednesday, September 5, 1979 -pa~e 5 
The Bolshoi presents: Romeo and Juliet Kate Farrell Romeo andJuliet One has come to expect a great corps A ballet in prologue and three acts. de ballet from the Russian companies. Music by Serge Prokofiev. Perhaps it's the spirit of collectivism Choreography by Yuri Grigorovitch. that makes their ensemble dancing so Based on the tragedy by William together and so right. The corps of the Shakespeare. Bolshoi performed brilliantly, over­coming all the challenges of the free­Cast: flowing choreography to dance in Romeo: Alexander Bogatyrev almost flawless unison, particularly in Juliet: Natalia Bessmertnova the pas de six of the ballroom scene in Tybalt: Leonid Koslov which three men and three women Mercurio: Mikhail Tsivin danced a very difficult passage in Artists of the Bolshoi Ballet -perfect rhythm. The principal dancers ran the gamut Since its London debut in 1956, the from good to exceptional. The most Bolshoi Ballet has brought the best in impressive was Natalia Bessmertnova the Russian dancf" rraditwn --dramatic as Juliet. ,The latest in a long line of story ballets punctuated with virtuoso great female principals (Ulanova, Plit­turns and jumps --to Western stages. setskaya, Maximova) ,-she is the The September 1 presentation of "name" ballerina of the current tour. Romeo and Juliet a:t the Arie Crown Her exceptionally quick and clean Theatre in Chicago gave witness to the footwork gave her Juliet a light and continuing strength of this tradition ~irlish quality, and her long undulat­and &~owcased the unique elan and mg arms and flexible upper body athleticism of the Bolshoi company. captured and expressed the romance The present version of Shakespeare's and tragedy of the ballet. t~agedy! choreographed .by Bolshoi ar­As for the men, Mercurio (Mikhail usuc dtrector and restdent choreo­Tsivin) and Tybalt (Leonid KQslov) grapher Yuri Grigorovitch, has stole the show. Grigorovitch gives sparked raging dissent within the Mercurio lots of high-kicking, high­company, pttting such famous dancers jumping, fast-stepping passages that as Galina Ulanova, Maya Plitsetskaya makes one wonder if maybe this high and Vladmir Vasiliev against Grigoro­spirited gadfly isn't one of Queenvitch and the Soviet dance establish­Mab's elves himself. By contrast,ment. Tybalt's strong solid movements im­Since 1940, the Bolshoi has danced pose themselves in space with aand made famous the Romeo and grating arrogance. Akxander Bogaty­] uliet of Soviet choreographer Leonid Lavrosky. (It was his Romeo andjuliet rev, the evening's Romeo, danced that was performed by Galina Ulanova well, but his choreography was rather when the Bolshoi first appeared in the commopnplace, and he was overshad­West twenty-three years ago.) The owed by the other principals. Lavrosky version, faithful to Shakes­On the whole, the orchestra played peare, emphasized plot rather than gues and the Capulets in Act I, Scene His exuberant, bravoura style is quite professionally, although they dance, and depends heavily on panto­1. There, Grigorovitch worked effec­ill-suited to express the nuances of botched the balcony scene by J?laying mine and some of the most spectacular tively with the Prokofiev score to great romance, and his portrayal of the the score much too fast. The lighting staging in the history of the ballet to create a queasy feeling of impending victimized lovers was flat and stilted, and sets were too dark, and at times, convey the essence of the lovers' danger that could be felt all the way up the several pas de deux creating · obstructed the audience's view. Cos­tragedy. The Grigorovitch version, in the second balcony. absolutely no rapport between the two. tuming was inconsistent: the nobles of first performed by the Bolshoi on June But the piece de resistance was a This Maladroit treatment became all the court looked like the Rennaissance 26, 1979, in Moscow, eliminates panto­great Second Act in which Mercurio too evident in the final scene of Act I -­lords and ladies they were supposed to mine and attempts to use pure and Tybalt fight their duel in between the all important balcony scene --in be; the men and women in the street classical dance to develop the principal some of the highest jumps and most which Grogorovitch transformed high looked like nineteenth century French characters and move the action for­spectacular turns ever seen on a ballet passion into low camp by adding ten peasants from Giselle. ward. stage. The ballroom scenes of the First blonde girls in pink tulle skirts whose Yet despite these flaws, the raw How successful was this apP-roach? and Third Acts that displayed the presence in such a moment of sensu­power and technical virtuosity of the Grigorovitch succeeded magmficently _ technical prowess of the soloists and ous il).timacy was blatantly voyeuristic. dancers, combined with an irrepres­in portraying the physical drama of the corps de ballet were also well choreo­The characterization was curiously sible joie de vivre made Saturday'sballet. His bold, athletic choreography graphed. conservative and understated in spots, performance a very special event, and lends itself well to the violence of the As a psychologist and interpreter of notably in Act II, Scene 4, in which showed that when it comes to dramatic street scenes, particularly during the more subtle emotions, however, Grig­Mercurio's baiting of Juliet's nurse extravaganza, the Bolshoi still does it first confrontation between the Monta-orovitch leaves much to be desired. seems lacking in verve and wit. · better.  
• • • Appalachia Summer  
another girl were gtven charge of 32 tage, and the coldness would break down Summer Scene ended for the leaders corned the chance to discuss· their children, ages 7 -10. Such a large group for a time. with an outdoor mass and bonfire. The problems with a visitor. • proved suprisingly easy to handle, We also tried to instill a respect for hol;ICS spent together in planning, frust-A-very meaningful pari.' of my ·stay in because these children. were extrem!!ly nature in the ch.ildren, ~!though most rauon, and even joy provided the basis Adams County were the home visits. well behaved and obedtent (a reflecuon were tau~ht to kdl all anunals fll"St and for many deep and lasting friendships. Many ofthe elderly women in the county o~ their upbringin~). ~ach .day began as~ quc:sttons later. Dw:ing a trip to a Daily masses and communal prayer live ~lone _and are very lonely. I wtth a gro~p meetmg tn wJ;Uch leaders swtmm~g pond one Fnd~y. a Ranger served to strengthen our unity, and it is some.tunes spent two or thr~e hours played guttae and the children sang_ came wtth a pet --an etght foot boa hard to describe the closeness that I chattmg on the front porch wtth them, songs such as ''This Little light of constrictor --and explained about snakes came to £ ·th m fi fi II the mere presence of another person1Mine", "Rise and Shine", etc. Then and other cold-bloo<led creatures. This volunteers =thwt d Yar:;ur Thow lightening their day. How they wei­the groups broke up. to w'!rk at craft excited and intrigued the ~ildren. ~e brought with the~ C:rnyc infights in~~ comed a visit~r:s face, even a stranger's. tables, play games. like Ktckb~ and ~ounselors also took the children wadin~ Faith that were often discussed over .~e h<?me vtstts also gave me a gr~atDodgeball, go on hikes, or play 10 the tn the creek and encouraged thetr . . . mstght 10to some parts ofthe Appalactan creek. The crafts included rock painting, curiosity about the frogs, crayfish, mtdmght sn~c~s or star-watchi~g. My culture which are alive in the mountains, molding and painting natural clay from salamanders, and fish that lived there. perso~al rc.;hgtous gro!'fh dl:lftng. my for instance, quilting, storytelling, and the creek, crystal gardens, name tags, The two weeks passes very quickly. On expenence 10 Appalachia was due 10 a woodworking. and "God's eye made from twigs and Thursday of the last week, we let the great part to ~em. It is difficult to assess the impact that yam. Other crafts were stick ~uppets, children make home-made ice cream. After Summ~r .Scene ended, I worked 1an experience such as mine will have on nature plaques, and water paintmg. It is Several of the teachers dressed as for the re_ma10tng two ~c;eks at the my life, since I've only been back a short truly difficult to know which of the crafts clo~ns and passed out balloons a!ld Adams County. He~lth Cltmc1 _and also time. At this point, as I go .over my were the most po~ular, for the children lollipops. Our costumes were fille~ wtth spent my free tune 10 home vtstts to the journal, correspondence, and literature, loved to be creative. blown up b~lloons, and the chlldren sick and the elderly around the county~ I c<;mstantly find new aspects of the '[he t~eme for ~um~er Scene w~~ chased us try10g to tackle us and break Working in the cltnic afforded me the proJect to reflect on. . Happ10ess Sharmg wtt~ each Ot~er. the bal~oons. opportunity to meet people with profes-I found. first of all m that part of The theme became a rc;altty as children ·On Fnday, the last day, my class put on stonal interests similar to mine in service Appal~c~ta a small, bu~ very s~rong learned to cooperate, s10g together and a puppet show for the rest of the group. t th Wh"l k" Catholic 10fluence. The ststers, pnests,make thir.gs for each other. There were Everything, including making the pup-£0 e po{t' 1 e£ta 10g.wa:er samp 1es and lay people worked tirelessly with a many challenges for the leaders, pets, painting the scenery and doing the thorn we s t'! test ?r.punty fas gtven devotion that could only have been 0however. Family feuds are still alive in voices, was done by the children. It was · elop~ohumty 10.to hstt many t3e moi~ God-inspired. I felt that their manner of the hollows, and these animosities often a creative, comic, and well-done skit. On tso ate omes t e county, an to ta dealing with the physical and emotional  
extended down to the 8 and 9 year-old a more serious note, the older group to the people about clean health prac-needs of the people first charitably, then children. Children of rival families often 1presented a slide and music production tices. I also assisted a restdent in a religious way was a wise approach would not speak to each other. ·depicting the happenings at Summer nurse-social worker on follow up cases for people inherently distrustful of Sometimes, however, as when they were Scene during the past two weeks. This that ranged from suspected child abuse Catholics. Even the Bible schools two players on the same team, they was followed by a Litany of Thanks, also and alcoholism to routine blood pressure stressed Christian love and faith, not would forget.• momentarily their hen-. composed by the children. readings. Many of these people wei-: strictly Catho~ic beliefs. t.iiiiiiiiii&;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiililiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiC',.~.~...:.~ ~:.: 

__ t . -,j"
~ 
....... 
'.-~ 
I I I 
• 
~ 
t 
The Observer 
~NANCE CLUB MEETING 
Tonight I 7pm rm124 Hayes-Healy 
all Soph •., Junior, senior 
BA Malors welcomel 
Sign ups for memberships I 
.•••.........................., 
: TONY'S SHOE SHOP • • repair any kind of leather goods, • 
•
• also zippers , shoe repairing, polishing •
. .
' 
: Orthopedic Specialist, quick service, : • reasonable price • • Notre Dame Campus 283-1144 • 
: Open 8to 5 Mon.-Fri. and 8to 1 Sat. , : 
1980 mock Rep.ubllcan Convention 
Now taking applications for the position of convention chairman and· also assistant chairman in the 
following areas : 
Publicity  Logistics  
Delegates  Platform  
Speakers  Program  
Budget  

Those interested should pick-up & complete form available in Student Government offices' 2nd floor LaFortune Deadline for all applications 5 : 00 pm Sept. 10, 1979 
~~~~=::=~========~~===~ 
-~-­
Wednesday, September 5, 1979 -page 6 
Nazz plans sixth season opening 
by Robbie Moore carry on the Nazz tradition as StaffReporter somehow reflected in candle­light tables, soft lighting, and The Nazz, once feared by an informal atmosphere which some as a hangout for "long­lends itself easily to folk music. haired freaks that smoke dope "The Nazz is a cultural outlet and listen to crazy music" for students--a place for ex­opens its doors tonight for the pression--not only for music but stan of its sixth season. for poetry and drama as well," This year the Nazz managers, Geselbracht said. • 'The initial Jim Geselbracht and Mary goal of the Nazz is the gather­Ahern, plan to recreate the mg together of people to share coffehouse style of the 60s and their ideas and to giVe and take 
in relaxed surroundings." Geselbracht and Ahern in­tend to further this atmosphere 
K of C ladies by offering for sale tea, coffee, cheese, crackers, homemade bread, and if they get their way--espresso. Hopefully this
begin 
menu will recall somewhat the atmosphere of the European coffeehouse which is so popular with the students overseas.
new year 
An integral part of the ''Nazz The Ladies of magic'' is the almost exclusive 
Columbus will hold their first use of student entertainment. 
meeting of the year at 9 p.m. to · This year the management 
night at the K . of C Hall. hopes to see the return of some of last year's favorites, includ­ing, Gene Barbanera, Rich ' Preziosa, Rich Stevenson, Doug Strin~er, Rich Marcello, GerryUniversi~y Garcta, Ann Denny, Lone Dietrich, and Jamie Goodrich. Scheduled (or tonight's open­
sets P/F ing is ''open stage,'' a feature which opens the stage to spon­taneous performance of
deadline 
passers-through. 
According to Geselbracht, no performer need worry about the reception ofhis efforts. Anoth-­er remarkable quality of the Nazz, from the standpoint of the performer, is the generosity of its audience. 
''The Nazz is such a fun place to perform because the audi­ence is aJ?preciative as well as participattve, and it's easy to get them to sing along," re­marked Jamie Goodrich, one of the Nazz ,Performers. 
Weekmght shows at the Nazz will run Wednesdays and Thursdays from 9 to midnight, while weekend shows will run longer. 
Anyone wishing to perform can contact Mary Ahern at 283-7807. 
I I I 
Tito 
[continued from page 3} 
ing speech on Monoay by Cuban President Fidel Castro, who concentrated mostly on attacking U.S. foreign poltcy. 
Tito's 45-minute speech, however, stressed. the[osit~ve aspects of non-altgne poltcy and did not directly challenge the radical wing. 
11 -·=~=======R 
GJL'VJiiiJ aRB OBGillQIJIAUORIJ 
~llliJllRBIJ lFGB GORmt»liJI\A~ORil 1D ~&~ ~e &JVV»ll1nr eo~ DBW»Gll~ GAJJJ ._ JPJIGPJI» 1J2' ROW in the Treasurer's Ottice second F1oor Lafortune student center deadline for completion is fri. sept. 21 



ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
:merit scholarships-up to 520,000 Ill!leadership development .: management training 
* ' 

Eadventure '. -i employment opportunity 
Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 
CALL(219) 283-6264 
.I 
.'' ' ... ' 
f • I If to • I '-, 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~ 

Today is the last 
M } •ty
day students can declare pass/ 0 art by Michael Molinelli 
fail status for classes. 
Players to audition .for musical 
Auditions for 
the stud~nt players' produc­tion, " Stop the World, I Want to Get Off," will be held at 7:30 
p.m. tonight and tomorrow night in Rm. 122 of Crowley
Hall. The musical will be presented Nov. 9, 10, 16, and 
17 at Washington· Hall. 

The Observer -SportsBoard -· 1 Wednesday, September 5, 1979-page 7 
[ Baseball ) 
• • • Southern Cal
NATIONAL LEAGUE
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
EAST  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  90  46  .662  
Milwaukee Boston New York  83 78 75  56 57 60  .597 .578 .556  8V2 11V2 14Y2  
Detroit Cleveland Toronto  73 71 44  66 68 94  .525 .511 .319  18V2 -20V2 47  
WEST  
California Kansas City Minnesota Texas Chicago  75 73 71 68 60  64 65 66 71 77  .540 .529 .518 .489 .438  .. 1V2 3 7 14.  
Seattle Oakland  58 46  82 93  .414 .JJl  17% 29  

Tueaclay's Results 
Cleveland 5, Detroit 3 New York 3, Boston 2 Minnesota 5, Kansa~ City 1 Chicago 10, California 7 
Texas 5, Seatle 2 
Wednesd1y's G1mes ' 
Toronto (Edge 2·1) at Baltimore (D. Martinez 14-12), (n) Detroit (Rozema 3-3) at Cleveland (Paxton1-n. (n)
Boston (Stanley 15-9) at New York (John 18-6), (n)Kansas City (Spllttorff 13-14) at Minnesota (Goltz 12-10), (n)Chicago (Trout 8-7) at California (Knapp 3·3), (n)Milwaukee (Caldwell 14·5) at Oakland (Keough D-14), (n)Texas (Jenkins 13-11) at Seattle (Dressler D-1), (n) 

(.____T_e_n_n_i_s_~) 
19191RISH WOMEN'S SCHEDULE Sept. 8-OeP1uw 9:30 a.m. Sept 9-at IUPU, Ft. Wayne 12 noon Sept 12-at Goshen 4 p.m. Sept. 15-ND-SMC Invitational 8 a.m. Sept. 18 ·at Taylor 3:30p.m. Sept 21 -Wheaton 3 p.m.Sept 22-at Northern Illinois 12 noon Sept. 26-at Valparaiso 3 p.m. Sept. 28 -Cent"" Michigan 3:30 p.m.Oct. 2 -St. Mary's 3:30 p.m Oct. 2 -at Butler 2 p.m. Oct. 7-8-ND-SMC Irish Tourney 8 a.m. Oct. 11-13-at Indiana State Tournament 
Home matches (Courtney Courts)ln boldfiCB 
EAST  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Pittsburgh  82  55  .599  - 
Montreal  77  54  .598  2  
St. Louis  74  61  .548  7  
Chica~o Phila elphia  71 69  64 68  .526 .504  10 13  
New Y)lrk  53  82  .393  28  
WEST  
Houston Cincinnati Los Angeles San Francisco San Diego Atlanta  78 78 65 61 58 54  6()o 61 73 78 81 83  .565 .561 .471 .439 .417 .394  V2 13 17V2 20V2 23V2  

Tuesday's Results 
Montreal 5, New York 1 St. Louis 6, Chicago 4 San Francisco 3, San Diego 1 Atlanta 7, Cincinnati 6 Houston 9, Los Angeles 4 
Wednesday's Games 
Montreal (Schatzeder 9-4) at Chicago (Reuschel 16-8)New York (Swan 12·11) at Philadelphia (Christenson 5-10), (n)Los Angeles (Sutcliffe 13-9) at Atlanta (Brizzolara 6-9), (n)Pittsburgh (D. Robinson 7-6) at St. Louis (Denny 7-10), (n)Sen Diego (Jones 1D-11) at Houston (K. Forsch 9-6), (n)San Francisco (Montefusco 3-6) at Cincin­nati (Norman 1D-10), (n) 
( On the Air  )  
General  
"Sportsline"  with  Brian  Beglane,  Paul  

Mullaney and Greg Meredith, WSND ­AM-64 11 p.m. 
( Transactions ) 
NFL Washington Cut wldarecelver Krls Haines 
(continued from page 8) 
quarte~back-receiver teani ever_. Ed Smith and Kirk Gtbson but they should still have a potent offense. E~gene By~d, split end,_ and ~!lrk !Yammer, tight end, gtve MSU a sohd recetvtng Lorps if Darryl Rodgers can fmd someone to throw' to them. The running game is still solid, as the top five rushers all return behind an imposing front line. Eight returning defensive starters should give the Spartans a chance to roll up the points again this year. .. . 
9) Penn State·· Joe Paterno came wtthm a few yards of the national tid!! on New Year) Day, so the Lions should be anxtous to prove themselves again this year. With the los of QB Chuck 
.. 
Fusina, State will be _relying more on the running game, with fullback Matt Suhey leading the charge. Lombardi trophy winner Bruce Clark returns at defensive tackle, side by side with another All-.American, Matt Millen, to give 
·the Lions an imposing defensive front. 
10) Nebraska--Running back I.M. Hipp returns, but the Huskers' offense needs some rebuilding, as Tom Osborne must replace his QB and 80 percent of his offensive line. Defense should carry Nebraska early, as the conference:s best interior line returns four starters, anchored by middle guard Kerry Weinmaster. After an early season confrontation with Penn State, Nebraska should have some time to improve before they face Missouri and Oklahoma later in 
the season. 
Sports ·Briefs----t 
Lacrosse Club to hold meetinx 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club will hold an organizational meeting on Thursday, September 6, at 4:15p.m. in the ACC Auditorium, Room C14. One furpose of the meeting will be to describe a clinic which wil introduce new players to the game. All returning players, as well as any other intetested students, should plan to attend. 
Ruxb_v Club to orxanize Thursda_v 
The University of Notre Dame Rowing Club (crew) wili hold its first organizational meeting Thursday evening at 
8:30 in the LaFortune Theatre (room 16). All returning oarsmen and oarswomen are asked to attend this meeting. Any SaintMary's and Notre Dame stu~ents inte~ested ~n_j?in ing the crew. are asked to ~ttend th~1r respecttve _actlvttles nights. Senous athletes of all wetghts and heights are welcome since crew events have lightweight and heavy­weight classes. Crew is a co-ed sport, with St. Mary's women competing with Notre Dame students. 
The club competes during the fall and spring semesters, traveling to regattas all across the country. This October the crew will be competing in the "Head of the Charles" regatta in Boston. This is the largest regatta in the world, and features crews from Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and some 200 other teams. 
• • • Kahale 
1continued from page 8] 
said. Taking 18 credit hours in the field of electrical engineer­in_g, being secretary-treasurer of Grace Hall, playmg soccer, and still being able to enjoy the 
other  "_eleasures"  of Notre  
Dame  hfe  might  have  that  
effect  on  anyone.  As  Rich  

Hunter says, "Except for his cross-cultural backround, Sami exemplifies most of the tradi­tions that are associated with Notre Dame." 
If Notre Dame sophomore "camel-jockey," as hts coach' calls him, can continue his progress both on and off the soccer field, Sami will be a welcome addition to the annals of du lac's prestigious history. 
By the way, does anyone know why the lights are still on in the library penthouse? 

Notices NATIONAL HUMOR LEAGUE Tired of hearing that you're not funny?Prove that you are! Send $2.95 (ck/m.o.) abd humor sample to: NATIONAL H U M1 OR LEAGUE* 3010 Santa Monica Bl., Suite N629, Santa Monica,, Ca. 90404. If we lau~h we'll send you official 8x10" "I'm F NNY" wall certificate and NHL membership card. All samples returned. 6-8 weeks. Please come to the paper cut, wall-scroll and Chinese art show, Sept. 4th to Sept. 7th, 9:00 a.m.-4:30 ·p.m. Lafortune Student Canter. SMITH&CO. INCREDIBLE ENTERTAINMENT FOR YOUR PARTIES AND FORMALS. MANY OATES STILL AVAILABLE. SPECIAL RATES FOR BOOKINGS MADE BEFORE SEPTEMBER 10. call BRIAN NOW AT 277-3526. MUSICIANS-SINGERS NEEDED for 5:15 Sat. Mass at Sacred Heart or 5:00 Sun. at Keenan. Call Nick 3317. USED BOOK SHOP. OPEN WED.* SAT., SUN. 9-7. RALPH CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN ROAD. NILES. 683· 2888 Morrissey Loan Fund. Student loans $20 to $200. 1 percent Interest charge. Open M-F 11:30·12:30. Basement of LaFortune .Dst & Found LOST. Gold pocket watch, engraved D.A.Y., 5-28-79. Great sentimental val­ue. Reward. Dave· 3670. LOST. Gold necklace in shape of a tennis racket with Pearl. Call Cindy 272-4267. LOST. One set of ke~ on 1 ring with a Ca1111ro emblem, pro ably near O'Shag. Call Scott or Jo, 272-0361.  LOST. Gold Cross pen on quad In front of Law School. Sentimental value. Reward. Please call Kevin at 233-5298. FOUND. at 9 a.m. on campus. Male, 6-8 mo. German Shepard. Injured left fore­leg. Call 3431 to claim. For Rent ~rtment for Rent. $100.00 REBATE 0 FERED. Apt. 3C Notre Dame Apts. Ask for Bob or call 283-1791 (1103 Grace Hall) and ask for Bob. Wanted I need someone to help me clean by big, old house on Friday afternoons each week. I will provide lunch, transporta­tlon, and $2.50 per hour. Call 234-4498. Female roommate needed to share two-bedroom apt. near campus. $137.00 per month. Call 232-7610 after 5:30p.m. Need ride to and from Purdue this weekend. Please call Martin at 283·3664. Waitresses Wanted. full or part-time at Indiana's finest nlte club. Top pa~ -hourly and tips and commission. App y at Vegetable Buddies downtown. (You must be 21'). Part-time cocktail waitress needed for football weekends and occasional ban­quets --must be 21. Apply In person after 5:30 at The Oar House, 231 Dixie Way (US 31( North. Roseland, or call Mr. Cooper at 272-7818 for appointment. Part-time (3 nites) and full-time v_rork available. All positions needed --evemngs -apply ~n ~arson -Nicola's Restaurant, 809 N. Mic igan St. Close to Campus -dishwasher, busboy, pizza maker, clean­up and supply person (this is afternoons). Talk to Gma.  Roommate wanted: Completely furnished apt. Can have your own room, Notre Dame Apts. Call 3169, 8251. Need aride to Dayton or Fort Wayne this Friday. Bob 8714. Fe11111e Roommate Wanted. Lux~par­tment 2miles from campus. 232 call attar 9:30 p.m. For Sale Green and Blue rug, $25 or best offer, Vince 8831. 1978 Corvette L-82, 2600 miles. loaded. Drastically reduced. Call 289-1695. GOING HOME FOR BREAK OR THANKSGIVING? United Airlines 50 per cent off cclurans (2) for sale. $50 each, or best·offer. all Pat at 237-4273 between 9-5. For Sale: buffet, 5 metal chairs. Call 289­9725. CO!'v11CS, new and old. DC., Marvel, Warren. Also Starlog, Future Life, etc. Discounts. 287-6920 evenings. FREE CATALOG. Avon jewelry, cosmet­lcs, Christmas ~ifts for women, men and children. 287-6 20 evenings. FOR SALE. (1) Excellent condition: rug~d winter boots, darkbrown; size 8% for 5. (2) Pro-Keds sneakers. Size 8V2; $10. Call Jeff at 1386. Sansui G·2000 Stereo Receiver. 16 watts/ channel. Excellent condition. Mike 8856. Small, wood-grain AVANT! refrigerator. Dorm-size, like new. $90. 233-8855. Brand new four·temp. hairblower $12. 233·8855. '  Tickets Desperately need 2 GA tix to Michigan and/or Georgia Tech games as soon as possible. Call 1951. Will sell my soul for Michigan State tickets. Call 277-5128. BEER MONEY · I need tix, student and GA, for all home games. Reasonable offers, Mlck 8212. Want season football passes. Will pay good $. Call 8092. GA tix needed for home games. Call Lou at 3171. My family will disown me if I don't get 1 GA tlx for Michigan State. Call Andy at 1959. I need 3 or 4 GA tickets for ND-Purdue ~arne. Willing to negotiate on price.lease, I need to know soon. Thanks! !call John-1209. Wanted: 2 Michigan State tickets -student or otherwise. Call Pat 8913. ' Desperate for 2. 3or 4GA tlx to any home game for anniversary present. Call Bob at 1166. Need 4GA tickets to MSU game for dying wandparents. Call Lori at 4-1-4573 or an at 3322. Desperately need 5 GA tlx to Tennessee! Call John at 3656. Need 2 tlx to U. Mich. game!! Call 233-8855. Mom's coming and wants 2 GA tix to Michigan State. Call Jack 288-9751. MONEY NO OBJECT! Need 6 GA tix for USC. Call Jack 288-9751.  Need many GA tickets for USC game.Call Beth at SMC 4991. Personals All Nazz technical workers please sign up at Activities Night or call Jim Geselbracht Watch for sound system ·workshop soon! The Nazz needs you! Talent or no-talen1, we need musicians, technical workers and general assistants. Call Mary or Jim at 4763, or stop by the Nazz within the next two weeks. Dear Mary Tara, Such a "Special" day for both of us. Happy Birthday . . . · D.C. Laurie, / Happy 21st! The rest is yet to come. Renee. Kevin, Dave and Company' Midnight Express · Sorry this Is late, but its the thought that counts. Hope you had a happy birthday and aren't feeling too badly. Happy 21!!! Me Anyone Interested In workln~ on The Observer's Editorial page, pease call Ann at 1715 or 277-4976. Writers, layout Iliff and cartoonists are needed. To the LeMans nurses. Sharon and Carolyn -we would like to see you a~aln! Please call Dave and John at 8630. sCarolyn -Hope your feet are feeling better!  

,_. 
-
--· --··. -··· ....-..........................................., .................... . ----..-: -·····.
-~ 
I 
. .; 

Wednesday, September 5, 1979 -pa~e 8 

Versatile Kahale feels at home both on and off the soccer field 

by Gary Grassey Sports Wn'ter 
-" 
If one was asked to describe the typical Notre Dame student, such an account probably wouldn't include any mention of an upbringing that took place entirely outside the borders of the United States. However, this description probably would relate some details about a person with high goals in academic pursuits, a participa:


! ., 
jr 
tory interest in sports and, most likely, an inchnation to be involved on student affairs 
-
around campus. 
In case you're wondering who I am going to talk about, meet Sami Kahale. This is the talented young sophomore who figures to be a major factor in shaping the fortunes of Coach Rich Hunter's Notre Dame soccer team. 
Sami had never set foot on 
Sophomore Sami Kahale is no foreigner to the soccer field American soil until one month as he displays his talents for Coach Rich Hunter's squad. before his matriculaton at Notre !Photo by Mike Btgley] Dame. He was born in Cairo, 
First woman in NBA 
Ann Meyer to sign with Pace.rs 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The 
Indiana Pacers of the National 
Basketball Association an­
nounced they will hold a press 
conference ~ednesday at 
which time it is expected they 
will sign former UCLA All­
American Ann Meyers. 
Meyers, a ~-foot-9, 13~­
pounder, would becon;te the 
first woman ever to s1gn an 
NBA contract. 
A source at UCLA said 
Tuesday the 24-year-old 
Meyers will sign a one-year 
contract that is not of the no-cut 
varietY., meaning that the sister 
of Mtlwaukee Bucks' forward 
Dave Meyers will have to try 
out for the Pacers. 
The announcement of the 
press conference said that 
among those attending with 
be Ms. Meyers along with 
Pacers' owner Sam Nassi and 
Coach-General Manager Bobby 
Leonard. 
Meyers, a member of the 
United States National 'women's team every year since 1974 and a player on the U.S. team that earned a silver medal 
at the Montreal Olympics in 
1976, averaged 17.4 points, 9.0 
rebounds and 5. 5 assists during 
her career at UCLA. 
Playing both forward and 
guard, she connected on 50 
Washington Redskins cut Kris Haines 
The Washington Redskins Tuesday placed rookie wide re­ceiver Kris Haines on waivers and recalled veteran John McKaniel, who the team had waived two weeks ago. The move was made too late in the day for another team to pick up Haines, but he is expected to join on with another club soon. 
percent of her field goal American for the UCLA men's attempts· and 79 percent of her team. He fmished his college free throw tries. career in 1975 as captain of the 
By signing, she will relinqu­Bruins' last NCAA champion-­ish her amateur status and thus ship team and has played in give up any chance ofplaying in three NBA seasons. He missed next year's Olympics. the 1978-79 campaign because 
Her brother was an All-of a back injury. 
Egypt to parents ofEnglish and Syrian extraction. ~hen Sami was three, he moved with his family -to Rome, Italy, where they have made their home ever since. Here, his education began, auspiciously enough, at an American school called the Notre Dame International School (no relation to us, folks). 
At the Notre Dame school, 
Sami learned his English and 
made great strides in the field 
of athletics. Throughout high 
school, he excelled in basket­
ball, tennis, and soccer_ In fact, 
tennis was the-only sport he played all four years in schooL He played soccer only as far as his JUnior year. 
When the time came to think about college, Sami set his sights on the United States. The desire to attend Notre Dame, thou~h, was not fore­most in h1s mind. Sami recalled, "I knew about the weather and that the school was in the middle of nowhere." It took the urging of Notre Dame University alumni who taught at his high school to lead Sami to discover the q,uality of educa­tion and athleucs that du lac had to offer. 
Eventually, he received his acceptance and so he made his way to South Bend in August 1978 knowing only that, "I didn't know what was going to happen." He decided to take a crack at soccer because of his like for the "team aspect of the game." The game of tennis wasn't as appealing due to the individuality of the sport. Even though he went on to win the interhall singles title in tennis, 
Sami committed himself to soccer. 
The moment he hit the practice field, the Irish coach­mg staff spotted the immense potential that lay ahead for Kahale. His success on the freshman team, led Coach Hunter to move him onto the varsity squad by October break. After years of growing up in a nation where watchmg and playing soccer, and not Notre Dame football, were the top weekend activities, it was evi­dent that Sami had an extraor­
dinary feel for the game. 
Coach Hunter offered, "He's the purest soccer player on the field. He hasl an amazing touch with the ball and he seems to know instinctively where to put the ball.'' After gaining a small dose of varsity experience last fall, Sami is expected to become a vital cog in the Irish attack for 1979. Hunter explained, "He plays center forward--the tou~hest position on the field. ~e re counting on him to create a lot of goals and to draw double marking. We're all really expecting his leadership 
-to emerge on the field." 
Sami is well aware of the duties he will carry. "I like challenges and I'm ready to accept my role, but most impor­tant is that we win, no matter how I play.'' 
It 1s obvious that Sami Kahale has adjusted remark­ably well in his brief time spent in the United States. His only real problem has been time. "I don't get a lot of sleep." he 
(continued on page 7) 
Colle~e _football Top Ten 


Observer staffpicks Southern Cal 
The college football season gets into full swing this weekend, as many teams open their campaigns this Saturdar. In an effort to try and form our own opinion on who wil be the top teams in January, The Observer sports staff has conducted their first annual Top Ten pre-season poll. It turned out that our opinion was pretty similar to the national opinion, despite all our efforts to be different. Nevertheless, here is a rundown of who we think will be the contenders for the national championship: 
1) Southern California--No surprise here, as every major poll picked the Trojans for the top spot this year. Heisman Troph}' candidate Charles ~hite, quarterback Paul McDon­ald, offensive linemen Anthony Munoz and Brad Budde, and linebacker are just a few of the players who should shine this year, and USC also boasts the best frosh class in the nation. Head coach John Robinson is trying to be cool about this season, but the only thing that could stop Southern Cal this year is an injury epidemic or a trip to South Bend. 
2) Oklahoma--Billy Sims, last year's Heisman Trophy winner, will try to join Archie Griffin as the only player to take the coveted title twice. He may have to do it on his own, as only three offensive teammates return this year. Head coach Barry Switzer must replace QB Thomas Lott and plug some holes on the line, but David Overstreet joins Sims to give the Sooners a solid one-two punch at running back. Defensively OU is strong, as linebacker George Cumby and defensive back Darrol Ray head a group of seven returning starters. . 
3) Alabama--Bear Bryant enters the seasop with the same oflensive line that helped the Tide roll to a share of the national title, and with the usually corps of runnin~ backs, led by Major Ogilvie, Alabama should continue to gam on the ground. Most of the defensive line also returns, giving Barna control of the trenches on both sides. Bryant will have to fill a few spots, but the Tide should be deep, as usual. 
4) Purdue--Everyone in ~est Lafayette is talking about junior QB Mark Herrmann, another Heisman Possibility, but there is plenty more to talk about on this unit. Herrmann has the honor of leading the same offensive squad that finished with a Peach Bowl win over Georgia Tech, and All-American candidates Keena Turner at defensive end and Kevin Motts at linebacker head up the Boilers' "Junk Defense." The days of the "Big Two" in the Big Ten are over,. as both 
Mark 
Perry 

Pu.rdue and Michigan State shoula be contending for the Rose Bowl bid. 
5) Texas--The Longhorns have some problems on offense, but the defense should carry this team to the s~c crown, as Johnnie Johnson (DB), Steve McMichael and Bill Acker (DT), and linebacker Lance Taylor are All-American possibilities. Head coach Fred Akers has to find at QB, but Olympic sprinter Johnny ''Lam'' Jones should be able to run under a few passes no matter who throws them. The entire offensive line returns, but Akers needs to find some dependable backs to carry the ball. 
6) Mtchzgan--Defense is the name of the game for the Wolverines, as linebacker Ron Simpkins heads a group of nine returning starters. Offense is the trouble spot, as Bo Schembechler must replace his entire startin~ backfield and most of the offensive line. Receiving is a b1g plus for the Maize and Blue, as 'Wingback : Ralph Clayton, split end Rodney Feaster, and tight end Doug Marsh return. Guard 
John Powers will provide the only line experience. The big task for Schembechler is learning how to wm the last game of the season (he's never done it at Michigan). 
7) Notre Dame--An extremely tough schedule could kill the Irish, but it could also bring them the national title. Dan Devine returns ten sqtrters from last year, and halfback Vagas Ferguson, guarc4 Tim Huffrrian, tackle Tim Foley, and defensive back Dave 'Waymer are all candidates for post-season honors. Rusty L1sch appears to have won the QB derby, and will operate behind an experienced offensive line_ Defensively the Irish have some gaps to fill, but return several second stringers with game experience. A win over Michigan could give Notre Dame the confidence it needs to take·on that tough schedule. 
8) Mzchigan State--The Spartans lose their best [continued on page 7) 




