,---,-------~-------~------------~----~---------­
·' 
.· ' 
, , , Problems with nukes -see page 3 


VOL. XIV, NO.4) an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1979 
Iranians seize scores of American hostages 
TEHRAN (AP) -Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's followers, already holding scores of hostages in the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, seized two U.S. consulates and the British Embassy yesterday in an escalating war of nerves against "the great Saran, America" and its ''evil '' ally. 
No injuries were reported in the new takeovers in Iran, and it was not known how many new American hostages were seized, if any. The British Foreign Office in London announced last night that the takeover of its embassy in Tehran ended peacefully after six hours, apparently following intervention by the Iranian army guards, and no one was hurt. It sai.d more than 100 students had mvaded the embassy, holding about 30 people. 
The head of the Iranian Embassy in Washington made clear the Tehran government would not intercede w free U.S. Embassy hostags. Ali Agah told reporters the government "reflects the demand of the people'' regarding the shah, and the student militants who seized the embassy Sunday could not be asked to leave. 
The State Department estimated 60 American hostages were being held in i:he embassy, and said it received indirect assurances from the students that "all are well." Previous reports said seven or eight Iranian employees also were held. 
Iranian leader Khomeini and his student supporters demanded 
the United States and Britain hand over two "cnminals" for trial­
the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, hospitalized in New 
York, and former Iranian Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar, 
living in e:xile in Western Europe. . 
But the Carter administration rejected the demand that lt expel 
the shah, and the British said they did not have Bakhtiar -that he 
was living in France. 
The shah, long a close U.S. ally, fled Iran last January as the by Michael Onufrak ''After talking to the contrac­According to Roche, the in­Khomeini-led revolution neared victory. He first went to Egypt, Senior Copy Editor tors involved, it has been made creased hours would alleviatethen Morocco, the Bahamas, and finally Mexico. Last month he apparent that the Aug. 1) date much of the overcrowding that
[continued on page 6] 
The Campus Life Council . we had originally been striving exists at lunchtime, as well as 
voted last night to submit a list the rush at dinner. "This is a
for will be almost impossible to of seven proposals regarding meet," Mason said. move that should be made now student life in the two planned since the problem already ex­
He added that the majorresidence halls op. the North

Judge detains fourteen, 
factor cited by the contractors ists and will only be compound­

... Quad' to th'e ·d'ffice of Student ed by the addition of new
has been the expected South 
Affairs. The proposals came, students when the new dorms
Bend winter which will inevit­
however, amidst talk that the are completed," he said. 
ably cause construction delays.


after Klan rally shootings 
new dorms would not be ready The other six CLC recom­
Mason noted that the Univer­for occupation by August, 1980, sity never set a definite dead­mendations are: 

GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) -gunmen fired repeatedly into a as originally hoped. Two letters --That noon hour classes be
line for completion of thefourteen men, described by a crowd gathered for an anti-Kaln were also received by the CLC dorms, but had only been held. 

judge as "imminently danger­march sponsored by the leftists last night--one a rejection of --That the decision as to which
"striving" for August of next 

ous to others of the commun­Workers Viewpoint Organiza­the CLC keg proposal appeal, dining hall one eats in be left up 
year. He said no contracts hadity," were ordered held without tion. Ploice seized a yellow van the other an acceptance of a been signed as of yesterday. to the individual. 

bond yesterday in a shooting that was packed with pistols, CLC du Lac proposal. --That the White Field
At least one CLC proposalrampage at an anti-Ku Klux shotguns and rifles. According to Thomas ] . could take ~ffect immediatelY., (across Juniper Rd. from the 

Klan rally that killed five per­Each of the 12 arrested Stepan fields) be graded and
Mason, University vice-presi­according to CLC Chairman B1ll sons. Saturday faces four counts of dent for Buc;iness Affairs, it Roche--that which would ex­made available for club sports.
Persons outside the court­

murder and one count of cons-"appears very improbable" tend dining hall hours from 7 --That imnrovements be room said they could hear that the dorms will be complet­a.m.-2 p.m., and from 4:30 made in rhe ~ ading of Stepan
voices singing ''God Bless Am­[continued on page 3] ed by next semester. Fields.
p.m.-7 p.m. on weekdays.

erica" and "Onward Christian --That there may be increas­
Soldiers" in the holding cell ed pressures on services at the where the suspects awaited Student Health Center. Consi­their court appearances. Long lines encountered deration should be given to 
Nelson Johnson, one of the obtaining additional day and organizers of the snti-Kian night personnel. protest, said at a news confer­--No recommendation re­, ence that his group planned to garding parking should be 1
Computer usage increaseshold a funeral march in Greens­made at this time. boro on Sunday for those killed Grace Hall Rector Bro. ~ 
,
no organizers of the anti-Klan StaffReporter ciples of Economics) this recommendation regarding 1 
Nelson Johnson, one of the by Phyllis Washington economics requirement (Prin­numbers to enrolled students Charles Burke noted that 
for class assignments. 

protest, said at a news confer­semester. As a result, the parking is being made at this
"There's been a constant

ence that his group planned to Waiting lines for computer number of students taking the time because, at present, there
growth since 1972 in students

hold a funeral march in Greens­terminals are much longer this course doubled. Instead of the are approximately 150 unused boro on Sunday for those killed semester, but the number of usual 400 to 500 students taking using the computers," Walsh parking spaces in the D-1 ! 
said. "There's also been a

in the attack. students using computers for parking lot. The CLC decided to
the course, there are about 1000 growth in the use of computers

Four persons dit>d at the wait on this point and see what
courses took a dramatic jump students taking it now. "Next for research,'' he added.
scene of Saturday's shootings this semester also. Brian the parking situation will be like 
year, it will go back to 400 to

in a predominantly black hous­Walsh, the director of the )00," Walsh said. This semester, about 2000 to next semester. Some decisions 
1
ing project. A fifth victim, computing center, said, ''That 3000 identification numbers which will affect the parking
Another reason for the in­

Mtchael Nathan, a physician bit of an increase won't happen were issued. But that doesn't situation--particularly the dect­
crease is that more colleges are

from Durham, died yesterday at necessarily mean that all of sion regarding the allowance of
again." offering courses in which stu­1 
a Greensboro hospital. Nine those students were issued cars on campus for freshman-­
The reason for the increase dents are required to use
other persons were injured. numbers. ''Some students get have not yet been made. 
Twelve men were arrested a was a change in the business computer~. Language, ma~h, · two or three numbers," Walsh Also last night in a letter
school. Both freshmen and eng10eenng and econom1cs 1
few hundred feet from the said, "and we won't know how addressed to Roche, University 
sophomore business students courses, to name just a few,
scene of the shootings, where were allowed to fulfill their issue computer identification [continued on page 3] 

[continued on page 4] Arts andLetters Senior Mary Beth Moran pores over the 1980 Spring Semester course listing [Photo by Tim McKeough]. 

CLC submits seven proposals· 

--------~·---------~----· --­



News in brief 
Tuesday, November 6, 1979-page 2 
According to polls
Al Capp, creator of 'li 'l Abner ', dies after illness 


Carter regains popularity 
CAMBRIDGE, MASS. (AP) -AI Capp, creator of the Li'I 
Abner, the comic strip that survived seven presidents and became an American institution, died last night, his attorney 

WASHINGTON (AP) -In the according to Matt Wanning, a industry and stren~then the said. Alvin Hochberg, the attorney, said Capp died at Mt. 
week that his rwo Democratic key Kennedy organizer. American economy,' his head­Auburn Hospital here after a lengthy illness. He was 70. 
opponents are announcing their Kennedy will formally an­quarters said. Hochberg did not disclose the cause of the cartoonist's death. 
candidacies for his office, Presi­nounce his candidacy in Bos­He will make appearances in dent Carter got encouraging ton's historic Faneuil Hall on Boston and Manchester, N.H.,
Capp suffered from emphysema, a condition which played a parr in his decision to discontinue his satirical comic strip of 
news from two J?Olls indicating Wednesday, then leave on a that night, make a spee<.:h at ~hat his populanty is rebound­political tour which will take Yale University, his almathe adventures of the hillibilly inhabitants of Dogpatch, mg. him to Manchester, N.H.; Port­mater, and appearances in New U.S.A.The comic strip disappeared from newspapers Nov. 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, land, Maine; Chicago, Okla­York City and at Harvard13, 1977, when Capp retired. Going with it were such durable D-Mass., led Caner 2-to-1 in a ho_ma. City; Nashville, Tenn.; . University, where he will out­c~aracters ::~:s L(l Abner, th~ painfully ~hy and impoverished number of polls this summer, M1am1; Charleston, S.C.; and line his health care proposals.
b1gfooted hillbllly, and Da1sy Mae, h1s ever-pursuing and but Time magazine says a new Hartford, Conn., before the Health is a field where Carterlatter-day wife. They were but a few of the characters that poll narrows Kennedy's lead to week is over. and Kennedy have offered com­Capp eii_lplC!yed in the syndicated comic strip, born in the 5-to-4. Brown, who entered the pri­peting bills. 
Depress10n 10 1934. At its height, the strip was syndicated in Kennedy led 49 percent to 39 maries late in 1976 and did well \X ith the election exactly a900 newspapers around the world. In November, 1977, the 

percent in Time's poll, con­against Carter, will announce year away, Carter scheduled no strip was carried by 400 newspapers. By comparison, the 
ducted in late October by the h1s candidacy in a speech overtly political business. He long-time strip "Biondie" and the "Peanuts" were carried 

research firm of Y ankelovich, Thursday at the National Press planned to conduct a briefingin about 1,700 newspapers. 
Skelly and White. Club in Washington, "defining on the arms limitation treaty his In Iowa, scene in January of the issues and outlining bold administration ne~otiated, the nation's first precinct cauc­proposals to restructure the oil meet with Ireland's pnme min­

Prison officials capture Ray 
uses, Caner emerged with ister, Jack Lynch, and travel to 
70.63 percent in a straw poll Canada for a meeting with Prime taken among those who attend­Minister Joe Clark and to ed a Democratic fund-raising Robert Haas address the Parliament.

after attempted escape 
dinner. In Washington, Patrick ) . Kennedy trailed with 26.01 Lucey, former governor of WlS­

to present 

percent and Gov. Edmund G. consin and a longtime associate assassination of Marrin Luther King Jr., tried unsuccessfully 
PETROS, TENN. (AP) -James Earl Ray, imprisoned in the 

Brown Jr. of California got a of the Kennedy family, an­to escape from Brushy Mountain Prison early yesterday, 
scant 0.82 percent. nounced he will serve as Ken­But the Carter camp made nedy's deputy campaign man­


reading
prison officials said. Ray, serving 99 years for the 1968 a vigerous effort to get its sup­ager.
assassination plus a year for an escape in 1977, was porters to the dinner and the Robert Haas, poet and authorrecaptured inside the prison grounds but outside the Kennedy organization did not, of rwo books, present

fortress-like building in the rugged East Tennessee will a 
reading tonight at 8:00 p.m. inmountains. Prison Sgt. Ray Tucker said inmate escape· the Library auditorium. Haas'sEugene Wolverton accompanied Ray in the attempt but was first book, Field Guide, was 

Buy

also recaptured. Tucker said a guard fired one warning rhot 

Rice to speak 
published in 1973; his second but that no one was hit. Ray, who pleaded guilty to the killing book, Praise, in 1979. A former but has since declared his innocence, escaped with several recipient of the Yale Youngerother inmates from the prison in June 1977 but was Poets Award, Haas was well


at Corps

retaptured after a few days. 
received at his past appearance 
• Observer

at the Notre Dame Sophomore Literary Festival. 


anntversary 
The Department of English



Weather 
and The Juggler are cosponsors 


classi.fteds 

Charles E. Rice, professor of of the lecture. A 50 percent chance for rain today with a high of 45 to 50. 
law at the Notre Dame Law Mostly cloudy tonight. Low in the low 30s. Mostly sunny 
School, will be the guest tomorrow. High in the mid to upper 40s. 
speaker at a combined Navy/ Marine Corps Anniversary Ceremony at 4:45p.m. Tuesday Nov.. 6, in the auditorium of the Uni;ersity's"MeiDilial Yhcary. ~ The ceremony, commemorating



CamP-_us_ ____. 
the 204th anniversary of the founding of the Navy and Marine Corps, will be followed by a recepnon.
11 a.m. COMPUTER MINI-COURSE, spon. by computing center, 509 LIBRARY 
f-The Observer_ 
4p.m. LECTURE, "local atomic arrangement of atoms in bmary alloys by diffuse x-ray scattery," prof ha)!:den chen, u of ill urban, spon. by dept. of metallurgy, 105 CUSHING 
Night Editor: Rod Beard HALL OF ENGINERRING. 
Asst. Night Editors: Ryan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes, 

4:30 p.m. BIOLOGY SEMINAR, "possible sites of energy 
Cindy "hi Danny", Kliros, production in anaero~ ic functioning mitochondria," dr. 
Bill ''Country'' Keenan howard saz, GALVIN UD. 
Copy Editor: Tom Jackman News Editor: 6:15p.m. LADIES OF NOTRE DAME, salad bar pot luck 
News Editor: Mike Shields dinner, PINHOOK PARK PAVILLION members dial 
Editorial Layout: Colleen 234-7286 for reservations 
Sloan Sports Layout: Paul 6:30p.m. SPANISH CLUB MEMBERSHIP MEETING, 104 
Mullaney O'SHAG. 7,9:30 & 12 p.m. MOVIE, 
Sports Copy Editor: Michael Ortman Typists:Amy Peczkowski 

6:30 SPANISH CLUB MEMBERSHIP MEETING, 104 
EMT:Pau1 Seluko O'SHAG. 
Proofreader: Mark Rust ND Day Editor: Mark Kelly 7, 9:30 & 12 p.m. MOVIE, "casino royal" ENGINEERING 
SMC Day Editor: Peggy AUD. 
Scheman Ad Design: Flo O'Connell 7 p.m. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING, for mardi gras, 
Photographer:Tim McKeogh manditory, LAFORTITNE LITTLE THEATRE. 
7 p.m. ORGANIZATION MEETING, for college bowl, 2D 
The Observer [USPS 5IM 12111 Is

ROOM, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
published Monday through Friclly ex­cept during exam and viiCIIlon periocb. The Observer is publlsllld br tllll

8 p.m. POETRY HEADING, robert hass from san francisco, 
students of Nlltrl 011111 IIIII Saint 

spon. by english depr. LIBRARY AUD. 
Miry's Colllgl. Sublcrtptila lillY Ill purdlnld lor S2ll per yur l$11 per8:30p.m. INFORMAL TALK, by lefry smith, hockey coach, 
Slfllllttrjlrom The ObServer. 1'.0. blx Q. Nlllrt 011111, lndl1111 46556. S.C.d

spon. by flanner hall academic comission, FLANNER PIT 
CIIU =Pilei. Nlltrl 011111, ln­
dillll . 
-Sophomore and Junior business majors or

9 p.m. BUSINESS MEETING, spon. by knights of columbus, 
The Observer is 1 llllllllllr of till 
those with previous related experience are
Auociltld PrtU. All lepildlcltln rigllts lrt rtllrvld. 

K OF C HALL 
preferred 



The Observer Regarding emergency evacuations 

NRC foresees possible problents 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The chairman of the Nuclear Regul­atory Commission acknowled­ged yesterday that certain nuclear plants near populated areas may have to be shut down because of potef]tial problems in evacuating residents in the event of an emergency. 
Joseph M. Hendrie, testify­ing before a House subcom­mmee, also announced that an NRC freeze on New· nuclear plants-imposed shortly after the March 28 accidenr at Three Mile Island-is bei11g extended at least until spring. 
He said the added time is needed so the recommenda­tions of the presidential com­mission on Three Mile Island c an be fully examined by policy makers. 
The delay directly effects four plants that had . been down some existing plants?''
scheduled, to open by the end of he asked. this year, and keeps another 88 "It's a possibility, Mr. Mof­plants in various stages of fett,'' Hendire replied.construction in a holding pat­However, Hendne wa~ quicktern. 
to note that he wasn't advocat­
There are now 70 nuclear ing shutting down either of the plants in operation in the plants mentioned by MotTeet,United States. saying "we're going to come to 
Rep. Toby Moffett, D-Conn., a very hard-rock place soon, but noted that a number of the we're not up against it yet."··plants now in operation are He said the closer a plant is older ones, built before the to a populated area '·the rime current policy of constucting for evacuation gets longer and 
them away from populated longer." areas. 
Commissioner John F. 
For people who.live near the Ahearne said that, short of Indian Point nuclear plant near being closed down, some older New Y ark City or the Zion plant plants might be ordered to 
near Chicago, "there is no operate at vastly reduced gen­
evacuation plan that can help erating levels to provide an you," Moffett said. extra margin of safety.
''If we are really concerned Hendrie said it will take time about safety, why don't we shut to digest and implement recom­mendations made last week by 
the presidential commission 
that investigated the accident at 
the Three Mile Island plant

• • . Computers near Harrisburg, Pa. 
One of the recommendations 

[continued from page 1) 
many undergraduate students 
actuallv used the computers 
until tht: end of the semester.'' 
There are approximately 70 
terminals on campus available 
to students and faculty mem­
bers. But 70 people can't "log 
on to the computer at the same 
time. The present computer 
system contains 35 ports. 
''This means that 70 terminals 
are competing for 3 5 slots at 
one time," Walsh said. So 
students using the terminals at 
busy hours normally have to · 
wait to get onto the computer. 
Most of the computer labs are 
open 16 hours a day for student 
use and they are almost always · "up in working order." 
"We run 99.2 per cent up as 
compared to the national aver­
age of8 5 percent," W a Ish said. 
When the computers are 
down, it is usually because a 
piece of equipment has failed 
and sometimes it takes a while 
to find the bad part and replace 
it." 
Walsh doesn't receive many 
complaints from students about 
the crowded computer labs 
even though the wait is longer. 
He makes an effort to go to the 
labs once or twice a we,ek for a 
few hours to make sure that 
things are running smoothly, he 
said. 
Walsh also mentioned that 
students don't normally com­
plain because "most under­
stand that there are problems 
and they try to work around 
them. But there is a problem 
when everybody waits until the 
last minute to run programs.'' 
Sandra Cole, an electrical 
engineering major, has three 
classes that require her to use 
the computer terminals. On the 
average, she goesto the 
computer lab once or twice a 
week for rwo to three hours. 
For each class, she gets a 
different identification number. 
''The computer lab is pretty 
busy when I go up, considering 
I usually wait until the last 
minute," she said, "but some­
times I think that they don't 
have enough facilities. They 
need a couple more kev­
punchers and printers," ,~..:.~ 
added. 
~eggie Pa~ne, ~nother e_lec­
tncal engtneenng maJor, 
agreed th!lt if people wou~d not 
wait unttl the last mmute, 
things would go smoothly. "In 
the afternoons, nobody's up 
there,'' he said. ''After dinner, 
it's like a zoo." 
by the presidential panel was to 
David Mitchell, an economics abolish the NRC as it currently major, uses the computer lab exists and to replace it with an just about every day. When he agency headed by a single goes, he spends .no less than administrator. NRC members three hours at a time. Mitchell themselves are divided on the said that the worst time to go up wisdom of such an approach. to the lab is after dmner However, they agreed that because that is when everybody until a number of major safety tries to run programs. ·''There and structural issues are resol­ar.e only so many terminals and ved, no new nuclear plants th~ phones are often busy,'' he should be opened. satd. The commissioners said the 
''But there's another prob­agency wants to focus on safety lem," Mitchell added. "Some­matters at the existing nuclear times you're in the middle of plants, rather than processingyour program and the computer goes down. Then, everything you've typed is lost." 
The administrators of the computing center are taking 


steps to help the crowded 

River City Records Presents•••
situation. Walsh said that by Jan. 1, they hope to have installed seven more ports in the comr.uter system so that 42 ports wt!l be available instead of 35. The new equipment was ordered last year but, ''equipm­ment ca_n take ~.P t? two ye~rs to be de!tvered, a:c·cording to Walsh. · 


• • • Klan 
[continued form page 1] 

SIGmApiracy to commit murder. Dis­trict Attormey Michael A. Schlosser said before the fifth victim died that he expected other charges to be ft.led. 
While 1,500 coupons last, get a free Big mace
Two suspects were arrested in Winston-Salem on Sunday. Each was charged with one 


coupon with every album, tape, blank tape or 
count of conspiracy to commit murder. 


concert ticket purchased at River Cit.Y Records,
Police Chief William E. Swing said yesterday that one other suspect was still bein~ 


~0970 U.S. 31 North,-3 miles North of campus! 
\! ,J
sought, althou_gh it was posst· ble others mtght have been involved. He said six of the suspects in custody identified 

Big mac.,~ will only be honoted at mcDonald's,of Roseland, 
themselves as members of the Klan and three of the defend­


52665 U.S. 31 North-1 mile North of campus, and will be
ants dsaid rhey were members of the American Nazi Party. 


·valid until November 16, 1979.
He said a citywide ban on parades was ::.ti.ll in effect, but t1'atJohnson's group might get 
>ermit if they applied for one 



Rivet City Records 

to hold a funeral march. Johnson said the Klan was 

"Northern Indiana's Largest Selection" of Rc...\'1€ .:...;:d challenged t0 appear at Satur day's protest, but they would 
50970 U.S. 31 North 277-4242 · 52665 U.S. 31 North 277-0810 
not be challenged tQ come to 


owner: Peter J. Kernan 
owner: Chuck Watson (N.D. '65)
the funeral march. BUt he said, 
"If the Klan shows up, we'll protect ourselves.'' 
[continued on page 9] Let's team goes to a AM 640 is gzving away a trip to whichever bowl we go to, to some lucky listener in their ''Bids you au bowl'' contest. Listen to the station for further details. [Photo by Tim McKeogh]. 



Attention: St. Mary's Students 



Tutors Needed 
Contact_ Saint Mary's College Volunteer Service at 5616 





WIN!! 

Au-Bowl 
~ 





Tuesday, November 6, 1979 -page 4 
The Observer 


DFLPHI, Ind. (AP).-For years, the 2, 800 folks in this sleepy little north central Indiana town haven't had much use for the locks on their doors or the rare political battle in their own backyard. 
It's 1979, and they still aren't locking their doors. But theresa new interest in Tuesday's elec­tion, and they can thank Cindy 
L. Brooks for that. It's not just that she's the first woman ever to seek office in this Carroll County community and one of 24 women running for mayor in 22 Indiana cities. It's not even that she's chal­lenging Democrat Wayne Van­Sickle, a three-term mayor 
who's been unopposed the past two elections. 
What has the 1,200 registered voters here talking is that Cindy
A.l. Anyarante, president and founder cf the Sarvodaya Shramadar.1 "r JVe ''len', s}oke abvM his humanitarian organi­Brooks is only 21 years old -the 
state's youngest candidate for
zation's work in Sn· LanAia yesterday at the Galvin Auditon·um. 
mayor.
[Photo by Tim McKeough) 
''A lot of people think this is a joke," the pretty, dark-haired factory worker admitted, "but I


14iJ--~--7~r~Rt~RKoRo1 
guarantee you, it's not."I -. I VanSickle isn't laughing.~.t-In the 100 Center ''This is a serious election serious in more ways than11 offers 10% off on one;" he said. "Is it possible
1 


21 year old woman bids for mayoral position 
I EVERYTHING I
I with ID & coupon I 
recorda, tClpea, pClrClphernCliiCl .I 
·································•················•···•·············



L ----------------.
:what: LANDLORD TENANT 
RELATION MEETING ~when: WEDNESDAY NOV.7 ~ 7:00 o.m. ~where: OFF-CAMPUS ALCOVE ~who: PROF. EAGAN AUTHOR OF . LANDLORD AND TENANT--­~ RIGHTS AND RESPOSIBILITIES
'··································································· 

for someone with absolutely no qualifications, background or experience to be elected to the highest office in Delphi? It's always possible. 
"I don't expect a walk-in candidate or a shoo-in,'' he added. "Every election has to be taken seriously until that last vote is counted.'' 
The Carroll County Republi­can Party isn't Jaughtng, either. 
Ignoring the advice of chair­man Tom Ives that she seek a city council seat instead, Cindy jumped into the mayoral prima­ry and defeated Michael George Griffey, a photographer 10 years lmc S<Ul.ior(-almfl!>st 2 to 
1. 
"It is very true that I tried to discourage her from running for office, but I told her if she was our candidate, I was going to back her,'' Ives said noting that the Democratic mayor and city council believe the fact that 60 percent of Delphi's voters are Republicans. 
He continued, ''I told her to put on a skirt and some moderate heels and go house­to-house, I can't sell Cindy Brooks. Nobody knows her. Only Cindy Brooks can sell herself. Ifshe did that, we'll get the vote out. But I can't say how they'll vote. I'm going to be surprised if she wins.'' 
But Cindy, who campaigned at ''every house in Delphi at least once," won't be surpris­ed. Neither will her parents, Whitt and Rebecca Brooks, nor 

Mardi Gras meeting tonight 
There will be a meeting to­night at 7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater for Hall Mardi Gras personnel. All Hall Chairmen, Raffle Chair­men and Architects must at­tend, as there will be separate meetings for all three. 
her eight brothers and sisters. 
''If the people get out and vote for me who have said they're, going to vote for me, it's mine. If they don't, it's his," said Cindy, whose $400 campaign of canvassing, phone calls and homemade poster has been manned by family and friends. 
Although Cindy admits she hasn't had much experience, a year as a police dispatcher 111 city hall gave her a good idea what's going on in city govern­ment, she said. 
And she believes she has a good grip on the issues: snow removal and VanSickle's lack of responsiveness to the public. 
"I know what's going on 111 this town. What you've got to do in a small town like this is listen to people and their ideas," Cindy said. "He (Van­Sickle) doesn't confront the issues, and he doesn't listen to people." 
''I think someone read the Chicago paper to her and said Mayor ] ane Byrne got elected on snow removal," VanSickle replied. "And what does 'unre­sponsive' mean? If I fail to perform my responsibility as mayor, I'm sure the public would ask me to be removed from office." 
VanSickle said he believed Cindy's candidacy was motivat­ed by a ~roup of disgruntled former c1ty employees who ''are backing her to get back at me. " 
"Nobody runs my life. I make my own decisions," Cindy said. "I felt this needed to be done ­he was just sitting there for eightJears doing nothing. If I shoul lose, I won't regret running, because maybe it will stir,F,ity hall y.p. Maybe it will 
"') 1., ,uJ.. 
cause some acnon. 

Besides, Cindy points out, a loss now could mefn a sure win in 1983. In the meantime, she'll 
go on coaching the junior high basketball team, watching sports on television and follow­ing the career of her inspira­tion, Larry Bird, the former 
[continued on page B) 
CLC 
[continued from page I] 

Provost Dr. T1mothy O'Meara rejected the CLC's keg proposal which had earlier been rejected by Fr. John Van Wolvlear, VICe-president for student af­fairs. No appeal to the Universi­ty President was planned as of last night. 
In a second letter addressed to Roche, Fr. Van Wolvlear honored the CLC's request that changes be made in du Lac regarding the CLC' s involve­ment in administration deci­sions concerning University policies and residence hall re­gulations. Van Wolvlear's letter stated that changes in these two categories' 'will be presented to the CLC for review, discussion and input." 
Van Wolvlear added that if changes in policy or residence hall regulations are made when the CLC is not in session, "the Dean of Students will officially notify members of the CLC Committee of these changes and await reply.'' 
The CLC chairman will be vested with the responsibility of seeing that the Dean of Stu­dents has CLC members' ad­dresses. 
The next meeting of the CLC will be held Monday, November 19 at 6:45 p.m. in Kennan Hall. 
• • • Computers 
[continued from page 3) 
Walsh also meets with the faculty members involved in teaching courses that use comp­uters. "We're trying to balance out when assignments are be­ing given," he said, "because we go through a week when many kids are using the termi­nals and the next week, no one is using them." 
Dr. William Davisson teaches Economic Methodology and Modeling Simulation. For both classes, he repuires a weekly assignment to be done on the computer. To help his students, Dr. Davisson reserves the computer lab on the secomd floor of O'Shaughnessy for several hours one night a week. But, "most times, students can't finish in the lab hours," said Dr. Davisson, ''so students do have to work at getting terminals at a particular time.'' Even with the extra time that students must spend to get their assignments done, Davis­son said he has not noticed an abnormal number of late as­signments. 
There are also peak periods of computer terminal use around mid-term and final exam times. To tackle this problem, the faculty members are trying to spread their examination dates out so that everybody does not hit the computer labs at one time. 

Some teachers give other classes priority over the comp­
uter  terminals  by  extending  
deadline  dates  to  help  the  
situation even more.  

Another aid to lessen the traffic in the computer labs are graphs posted in the computing center that show a student's chances of getting onto the computer at a given time. Students can use the graphs to figure out the times when the labs will be least crowded. 
Any minor repairs made on the computers are done from 
6:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. during the week and from 8:00 a.m. to 
4:00 p.m. Sundays so that the repair time won't interfere with the computer's availability to students. 
Walsh said he believes that the computer situation will improve next semester if only because of the decrease in the number of business students taking the basic economics course. 
The increasing number of courses using computers for class assignments is a factor to consider but it is not a big problem for the computing center now and it is unlikely to be a major problem in the near future. 
~ . 
~­
. 
./ 



The Chicano Chameleon 
Is a Chicano at Notre Dame 
still a Chicano?' Or is he a 
Mexican American, or an His­
panic, or a Latin-American, or 
Spanish-surnamed, or Spanish­speaking? Or is he Other? 
We guess it depends on which form he is filling out. On the other hand, it does give the Chicano a variety of alterna­tives from which to choose. 
Some Chicanos do feel uncom­fortable with that name. It derives from the colloquializa­tion of the ''xicano'' part of the word mexicano. Some prefer the term Mexican-American, for being a less radical, more acculturated term that is more easily pronounced by the domi­nant culture. Some are uncom­fortable with the terms Spa­nish-speaking and Spanish­surnamed because they don't speak Spanish or because they lost or gained their Spanish surname through marriage. 
Simitarly, the teATis Hispanic and Latin-American lump the Chicano together with his bro­thers from Latin-America and the Iberian Peninsula. This can be beneficial when we need the strength of numbers, but detri­mental when addressing the cultural and political needs of such a diverse group. The image arises of a chameleon of great potential strength; 
Even the Chicano population itself has div<>rse roots: Mexi­can, Indian, and Spanish blood to begin with; a variety of dialects within the rich Spanish tongue, e.g. the Tex-Mex of Texas, the Calo of California, etc. Here then emerges a glimpse of the Chicano chame­leon. 
But these roots are easy to 
Al Alba 
lose, here at Notre Dame and ·else where, under the ,rervasive mandate to jump mto the glorious American Melting-pot. 
But we must not burn the 
bridges to our culture. We 
must keep them open and 
well-travelled, if we are both to 
keep our culture and to partici­
pate in the American dream 
without it remaining the night­
mare it has, for the most part, 
been. 

So, since we are here now at Notre Dame, Chicanos need to communicate with their fellow Chicanos, to establish a contin­uing dlscoin'se that will 'Streng-r" then our toehold here; that will create the climate for develop­ing a consciousness of the Chicano and non-Chicano stu­dent; and that will add .the Chicano input to the acad~mic tradtion of formenting social change. 
It is in this spirit that we, a group of a few Chicano post­graduate students, through the catalyst of a Mexican-American Studies Coilloquium taught by Dr. Julian Samora, have begun this media project: a biweekly column (every second Tuesday to search out the Chicano chameleon at Notre Dame and to explore the topics and issues of interest to it. Feel free to give us feedback and sugges­tions. 
Also there is this Saturday, November 10, the second annu­al Midwest Foco Meetings of the National Association of Chicano Studies. There will be seminars in the ballroom of LaFortune Hall on topics such as education, law, economics, psychology, and community studies. 
.A sports column by Michael Onufrak entitled ·~Kuhn Out ofhis,League".appeared ~n the last page of Thursday s.Observet. Theptece was a criticism of Bowie Kuhn's recent acttons toward Willie Mayswhichforced the former star to resign from his front office job with the New York Mets because of his ·contract with Bally Manufactur• ing Corp.; a company with substantial gambling interests. 
Onufrak asserts that Kuhn's reasoning in ''benching" Mays is "ludicrous" and implies rhatWillie Mays is so highlyincorruJ?tible that he would never have any interests tn gambling bec<~use of his affiliation with the company. Not 
Willie. Mays,. ap..p.le. pie, ~.om and the flag--­
they'n· aU the same, aren t they? 
Sorry tO burst y<;>ur bubble, Mike, but baseball players have not been known to be immune to gambling people: the 1919 Black Sox scandal almost ktlled organized baseballin the U.S., and it was due only to the actions of comm.issioners like Kuhn that baseball's reputation regained respectability. 
In addition, Mike, you seem to have a distorted conception of both Kuhn's job as commissioner and ht.s intentions, The commissioner's respons­ibility is to protect the integrity of the game~ Kuhn is aware that since Ma}'S would · be working for a company affiliated with gambling, the Say Hey Kid would be accesible to gamblers. 
Kuhn is likewise aware that ~~biers have an avid interest in NFL football. ( 'Lines" for maJOr league games appear daily.. .in the Chicago Tribune during the season.) .. . . . 
You can probably see the obvtous trreconcda­biliry between Mays' baseball; job and his Bally job: you can't serve two masters equally well, and byfordng Will bto guit his Mets job, Kuhn is assuring that the uothmkable could not occur: i.e., a gambling scandal or even whispers ofone wl;lich wouid·... t~r¥s,h baseball'.s good name, 

Daniel lawton 
whatever that is. 

However, Mike, you seem to be ignorant of these facts and logic . in •your treatment of the issue. 
But then, under a full head of steam, yougo on w lambast Kuhn for baseball's present woes, citing escalating player salaries, the rift between union umpires and non-union· umpires, exces­sive promotions, etc, saying that none of the:>e t~ings happened before Kuhn became commts-, swner. 
Mike, may I remind you that Kuhn had no control over the abolition of the reserve clause which· made free agency and thus high salaries possible---that decision was made in a court, not m the commissioner's office. (It was bound to happen anyway and it was only fair to the players, who had suffered too long under the tyrannical whims of owners.) Also, the blame for such disasters as riots in Chicago and Cleveland, and for "inane" promotions, be­longs with owners such as Rar Kroc and Bill Veeck, not with Bowie Kuhn. It is highly unfair and extremely inaccurate to criticize Kuhn for that over which he exercises little or no controL (Free enterprise, you know.) . 
It istruethat Bowte Kuhn has made blunders as commissioner, sometimes major ones. Above all, though, he has shown a stubborn willingness to stick oy his guns and fight to keep baseball as dean as he can keep it: and as long as he has this erid in mind, major league baseball will remain comparatively free of the woes that plague the NFL and NBA today (low attendance, multiple wild cards, player violence). Kuhn's tenure has seen the most prosperous and popular period in baseball's history; true, there have been some rough spots, but worse occurrences have been pr~vented only because of stern actions by the Commissioner's Office. Mike Onufrak unfortunately fails to realize this; 





1Smile ofreason' 
Mr. Lauer, enough time has ~::\~d, tha~ f~ I can reply to your article "The Question" (Oct.)) without an excessive display of emotion. How can you speak of decisions of the heart, how can you say that rationality cannot itself decide anything? We. can allow your iconoclastic impulses only so much reign. Your article on the Golden Dome, that many of us could bear. Your rude diatribes against capitalism, that too we rould tolerate. But when you strike at rationaltty, you go too far. I ask you to think of Houdin's statue of Voltaire--the ''smile ofreason'' --and repent. Our very culture, the fabric of society is the endless Socratic d talogue, the warp and woof of society. 
As a university we are the very celebration of reason: history's construction of our past, psy­chology's revelations of the mind or philosophy's "Science of ethics''. All this and more are testimonies to reason. Or consider if you will how busi­ness and economics have trans­formed the very face of this earth unleashing a productive power that has benefited man­kind immea~urabley. And think a moment upon the accomplishments of science and of engineering: they above all are the accomplishments of reason. 
By relegating reason to emo­tion--to the heart, as· you say-­you attempt to undercut our very existence, not only as academics., but as man. 
Mr. Lauer, I sympathize with you--please believe me your thoughts are sometimes my own; however I must stand firm. I will, if you will allow me, quote David Hum~ that irascible Scot to lend tf not another dimension to my posi­tion, then at least a certain authority: ''Reason is and ought to be a slave of the passions" (For "passions" rea.d "heart" or "moral senti­ment".) 
l in my turn ask you to look at "our culture", indeed at the university you hold as a para­digm of that society. I believe we will find the need to replace Voltaire's "smile of reason" (shich I find at best enigmatic) with a new symbol. Let us turn from the Apollonial (rational) 
·art of sculpture to the Dionysiac 
• 

Paul Lauer 
(drunken) art of poetry and to Homer. Is not the giant Cyclops, blinded, groping in the dark for nobody (everybody) a symbol of reason without the "heart"? Has not everybody (nobody) put out the eve of Cyclops? Fearing bur sight (our 
emotions) we have blinded ourselves (by renouncing our emotions) and so blinded rea­son. 
How can we defend reason gone blind; is not the assembly line in any factory a chaos more pure and more wild than any found within the aborigine's superstition? And do not the cooling rowers of a nuclear plant or the shape of the Trident submarine make a true monument to science and engi­neering? And is there not a fear without end in this work of pur rationality? 
Your faith, Mr. Lauer, in reason is misplaced. It is, to be sure, a most powerful tool; iris a means to the end but it is no more. It would. upon the evidence of this century, be wise to give the eye back to Cyclops. We may s'till have to fear his wrath. but we will not have to fear his blind rage. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as llccurately and 


-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-In-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ................. .Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ....... .. M. Onufrak 
The Obsen.,er is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.. .................. Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddy Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Clrculatton Manager ......Greg Hedges 
·, 

,·,' • ·.Jor ,r• , ..._ -••.*•" 


The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1979 -page 6 
Tall Hollinden sees two sides from his 'long' life 
about the good things, likeEVANSVILLE, Ind (AP) -A~ being able to see across super­T-shirts go, it was simJ;>Ie, market aisles and winning a fullemphatic and to the pomt. 
basketball scholarship to India­"Don't Ask," it said on the na State University at Evans­from, and on the back it gave ville, his hometown.
his height:7 feet 5 inches. 

He's the second tallest college John Holl~nden hoped it would player, halfan inch shorter thanstem the steady parade of George Bell, a 20-year-old ju­gaping jaws, hissing shispers nior at Atlanta's Morris Brownand pointing fingers. But be­College.
fore he could judge it's effect, But for every supermarketsomething happened he hadn't aisle, for every free throw tatcounted on. 
hits its target, there's a showerHe outgrew it. 
that's too short, a suit that must·A r 21, Hollinden now mea­be custom made, a telephonesures 7 feet 6112 inches from his booth that's too low.
thick brown hair to the soles of And always, there's the end­his sneakers. It's a good bet less parade. of people who won'tthere's more to come. It's a leave John Hollinden alone. Ingood bet, too, that the whispers shopping malls and at movies,
will keep pace. But Hollmden's patience is as in airports, and at concerts, 
long as his body. they stalk him like some rare exotic bird.
''I'd rather be happy than mad "HEEEY, gettaloada that!" Itor sad," he said. So he talks was a woman this time, with pungent face powder and a voice that carried. She scurri~d acrosse the street to where

Isis Gallery 

Hollinden stood outside an Evansille restaurant. ''I'm guessing that you're 
French,'' said the woman, whose flapping kerchief lined up two inches above his belt buckle. · 
features 


Perelman 

"No, actually I'm ... " The Isis Gallery will feature an "HEEEY, I bet you !lay exhibition of the paintings and basketball," she interupte . 
works of Mark Perelman todav "Yes, I do," he said poli rely. through November 9, between ''At ISUE. Come see us some­
1:00 and 3:00p.m. daily. The rime.'' 
public is invited to attend. Sometimes the questions bo­fcontinued on page 7] 
• • • Shah 
[continued from page I] 

flew to New York, where he underwent gallbladder surgery and is 
undergoing treatment for lymph cancer. New York Hospital said 
Monday that a rumor in his neck has enlarged since the surgery, 
and that more surgery may be needed to remove a stone in a bile 
duct. 

The State Department says he was admitted to the United States 
for an indefinite stay bur will not be allowed to stay permanently. 
Broadcasts of the government-run radio, monitored in London, 
said students seized the U.S. consulates in Tabriz in northwest 
Iran and in the southern dity ofWhiraz. The State Department said 
another mob occupied and ransacked the Iran-American Society 
building, a cultural center, in Isfahan, central Iran. 
The British Foreign Office later reported that students invaded 
the British Embassy in an apparently peaceful takeover. It said 
some staff members were believed inside at the time, but it was 
not known whether any were taken hostage. 
The Moslem clergyman Khomeini, in a speech in his 
headquarters city of Aum, endorsed the takeover of the U.S. 
Embassy and said it had been a center of "plots" by "the great 
Satan, America," Radio Tehran reported. His representative 
Ayatollah Seyyed Khansari declared that America, Russia and 
Britain were each "more evil than the others," the broadcast said. 
The Carter administration has been relying on the Iranian 
government's efforts to secure the hostages' freedom. But the real 
power in Iran lies with Khomeini's Revolutionary Council of 
Moslem clergymen, and not with the government of Prime 
Minister Mehdi Bazargan. 

Iranian government officials said they were hopeful Khomeini's son Ahmad, who was summoned to the U.S. Embassy by the student militants, might obtain the release of the hostages. Ambassadors of other nations in Tehran also offered to act as mediators. 
But the students said they called the younger Khomeini only to show him that the embassy was a "nest of U.S..espionage" against the Iran's revolutionary regime. And there were no reports that any diplomats had actually begun mediating the standoff. 
Khomeini himself, in his Qum speech, denounced what he said were efforts by "rotten roots" to get him to persuade the youths to end the embassy occupation. 
He declared that the United States "must be put in their place." If it does not return the shah, "then we shall do whatever is necessary,'' Radio Tehran quoted him as saying. The students also demanded that the Iranian government cut all ties with the United States. 
The radio said Iranians staged anti-American demonstrations across the country yesterday. 
Iran's Pars news agency reported that an American identified as Bill Herr, an employee of a U.S. oil contracting firm, had been taken hostage by workers of the rural development office in Ahwaz, an oil center in southwest Iran. 
An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman reached by telephoae from Nicosia, Cyprus, said Monday his "general feeling is that things will settle down peacefully and soon." 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Sen. Birch Bayh, D-lnd., said yester­day he sometimes feels like sending a "goon squad" after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini because of continuing unrest in Iran. 
Bayh's comments came as Khomeini's student followers, already holding scores of hos­tages in the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, seized two U.S. con<:u­lates and the British Embassy in an escalaring war ,.c nf'rves againo.;r ''the great c..;:tran .. · Amcr ica" and Britam. 
fhe l>LUJuus and Iranian lead­er Khomeini demanded that the United States and Britain hand over two "criminals" for trial ­the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, hospitalized in New York, and former Iranian 
Prime  Minister  Shahpour  
Bakhuar,  living  in  exile  in  
Weste:-n Europe.  

Radio Tehran said the stu­dents holding the American Embassy also demanded that the Iranian government end all ties with the United States. And Iran's petroleum minister said a 

cutoff of oil exports to America was possible. 
''When I see the situation that exists today, I feel like saying, 'Send a goon squad after Aya­tollah Khon1eini,' "Bayh told a 
civic club  breakfast  meeting  
here.  
• Bayh  did  not  elaborate  and  

could not be reached for com­
ment. His a5sistant press secre­t;:~ry, Rich Paul said later in Washington, "1 think he's more or less being rhetorical. He's not calling for an armed inva­sion of Iran." · Paul said Bayh's remarks re­flected his anger about the embassy seige in Tehran. "He (Bayh) ts saying that he hopes the State Department in its negotiations would be tough with the Iranian government," Paul, said. 
Bayh also proposed at the breakfast meeting a Camp Da­vid summit on energy. 
"I think all of the movers and shakers in the field of eneq~y should be taken to Camp David and made to stay there until they come up with a solution of America's energy problems," he said, "just like Prime Mini­ster tlegm of Israel and Presi­dent Sadat of Egypt were kept at Camp David until they came up with an acceptable peace treaty. 

"We must find a way to mobilize all cf our forces to solve this problem," he added. 
0-C teams 
•
stgn-up today 

.Sign-up~ for o~-campus athl;­uc teams m men s and women s basketball and men's ice hockey will be ·held today and tomorrow in the off-campus room in the LaFortune Student Center. All interested off­campus residents are en­couraged to participate. 
---------~~--~ ~-----------------~-------------­
The Observer Another misfire 
Carter review-s shuttle progratn 
WASHINGTON (AP) America's space shuttle, dealt another setback by an engine failure, faces a critical cross-­roads next week when Presi­dent Carter personaHy reviews the troubled project. 
A few months ago, the presi­dent probably wouldn't have taken such a personal interest. But the shuttle is becoming more and more vital to national defense, and the White· House is counting on it as a major tool to verify Russian compliance with arms limitation agree­ments. 
Carter also wants to know about technical, financial and management problems that have plagued the shuttle and about safety questions raised by a team on White House con­sultants who recently in­vestigated the project. 
One of them, former astro­naut William Anders, said the first manned flight of the shuttle wiii be riskier than his flight on Apollo 8, man's first trip to the vicinity of the moon. 
Dr. Robert A. Frosch, admin­istrator of the National Aero­nautics and Space Administra­tion, will brief the president next week. He told a congres­sional committee last week he would request a ''several hun­dred million doHar" addition to NASA's budget to help put the program back on track. 
Carter is expected to endorse the !ihuttle and the extra money because of the national security aspects. 
Against this backdrop, the shuttle suffered another blow Sunday when an engine re­ceived extensive damage dur­ing an important test at a NASA facility at Bay St. Louis, Miss. The failure occurred during the first planned full-duration firing of three clustered engines like those that wiH boost the shuttle. The powerplant was to 
have fired for 510 seconds -the length of time required to hurl a shuttle into orbit -but cut off automatically after nine se­conds when computers detected excessive pressure in a turbo­Pl1mp. 
During the shutdown, one of the engines was extensively damaged as a hydrogen line ruptured. NASA said it did not know how great an impact the failure would have on the pro­~ram, but further engine test­mg was postponed indefinitely. 
''There are a lot of heads hanging down around here,'' said an official at NASA head­quarters Monday. "That failure was a big disappointment." 
The shuttle originaHy was to have flown its first manned or­bital flight last March. But problems with the engine, elec­tronics, thermal protection and management have contributed to a series of delays. 

by Mary Leavitt 

Eight teams have signed up to participate in the Saint Mary's Coilege Bowl Tourna­ment this year, which wiH be played for the first time Wed­nesday evening using a new system. 
Each ~arne wiH be request ­
·ed thts year, according to Mary Laverty, director of Stu­dent Affairs at SMC. "We only have a certain 'lumber of ques­tionpacker'-.' explained Laver­ty. "Conseyuently, we have to play more than one team off of each packet. Therefore, each game ts closed to an.y team not participating in it.'' 
Although the games are clos­ed to any non-participating 
team rhey are open to anyone else who is interested in attend­mg. 
''This is the first time we have sequestered the College Bowl," Laverty said. "We are asking for integrity from the audience. Hopefully, no one will try to pass on any ques­tions.'' 
The tournament will be struc­tured like a round robin. Play begins on Wednesday in Carroll Hall at 7:00 p.m. and will continue through most -0f next week. 
Each team has been practic­ing with the assistance of coaches from Saint Mary's fac­ulty. Each team has been given packages of mock questions, a script outlining the format of the bowl as well as tips on how to play the game from the coaches. 
An all-star team made up of the winning CoHege Bowl team and four other outstanding players will go on to play in the Midwest College Bowl Region­als held at Saint Mary's College in February. The all-star team will compete against teams from such colleges such as Purdue and Indiana University. 
"It's always amazing to see just how much the girls know,'' said Laverty. "It should be a fun event." 
Tuesday, November 6, 1979-page 7 


ELECTION DAY Opentpm 
Poll-Closing Special 
3Drafts 
(~m-3am) 
$1.00 
Kamikazees-75c 
Vote Ftfrly-Vote Often 

St. Mary's-ND Students Summer Programs in london & Rome (May 21-July 15) 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, England, France, Germany. Switzerlancj and Italy Courses for credit available 
Slides and Discussion on last years program Tuesday Nov. 6 Rm 232 Moreau 7pm -For info call Prof. Anthony Black at 4948 (office) or 272-3726 (home) 


Observer­needs_ Typists 

The Observer Office Phone 7471 

(continued_from page_ 6­
ther him. Often, they don't. 
"Shoot, if people are pointing and staring and acting like fools, that'a their problem, not mine," he said. 
"It's something he's had to 
learn to live with," said his mother, Anne HoHinden, who stands 5-foot-8. His father is 6-foot:3. 
''I've never seen John fight with anybody, not with words, 
not  with  fists,"  said  his  
teammate  and  friend,  Doug  
Alexander.  

Hollinden 
The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1979-page 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
October 31 1 1979 
Main Bulldlnc 

JOI INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AHD GRADUATE STUD!Jn'S IN TH! D!!!CEMBER. MAY AND AUCU ST CLASSES •.•..•••. ANY WHO INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS MUST HA\T. A COMPLETED PRDFIL! (REGISTRATION) ON FILE AT THE PLACEMENT BUREAU •..•..•••RECISTJ.ATIOI 1 INTERVIEW StGN-L"P SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITlRATUR! ARE IN ROOM 213, ADMIN. ILDG. 
COMPLETE EHPLOYER SPECt fiCATIONS ON DEGREES, JOB Tin.ES • LOCATIONS AlfD CITIZENSHIP ARE GIVEN IN THE Pl.ACEMENT HANllAL, EXCEPT FOR THOSE EMPLOY!RS ADDED SlNC! THE P'RlNTINC OF 1HE HA.NUAL. 
ntE SIGN-UP P!.lltOO lS 
NOVEMBER 5. 

PLEASE NOTE INTERVIEW YOU HUST SIGN P'OR YOUR 
AL 
lA 

IC 
!C 

Nov. 12
MOn." ­

~­
X 
X 
Hon7TUH.
·~I 
~ 

Tu••· X X 
.... lJ/14 Tuo07\i0d. 
Mov. 14
w.cr:­

X X 
X 
X 

X 
X 
W•d/Thur•.
~, 
Ne>v. 15 
~ 
1\uv. _l_b 

X 
X
rrl 

X 
X 
X X 
X X 
FROM 8:00A.M. TO S:OO P.K., KINDAl' tRRO'JQ\ T'RlN.StlA'Y 1 &EGlHNUIG 
LOCATIONS AT TIME OF SIGN-UP. 
INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY. 
Ul -
~~~Ex-Cell-o Corporation
V 
Cancell•d. 
Faderd Ruarve Bank of Ch1caa.o_ 8 in Acct, Fin. 4 
Robert H. Hnn i Co.pany 

1. Publlc Accountina. 2. 8 in Acct. 3. Staff Acct. 
4. Indianapolh, IN. 5. Pena. Rea. Visa. 
General P'ooda Corporuion 8 in KE, CE, HEIO, ChE. HliA with Acct or Pin conctrn. NOTE: An additional schedule will be eat up for Maxwell Houaa Diviaion of GF for lnduatrial !nsr poaitiona ln White Plaine, NY. 
Ct1)ra,i.a Inatituu of Technolop. School of Aeroapace lnar 8H in AE, H!, Enar Sci. 
Herculea. Inc 8M in HE, ChE, Che~~~. 

Northeaatern University. Grad. School of 8ua. Nt.in. BM in all diaciplinea, particularly En~~:1neer1nf, 8uaineaa Admin, !con, ~th. 
Arthur Youna 6 Co. B in Acct. HSA and JD with Acc:t undergraduate degree. 
Aluminum Company of ~rica ~ME, Met, ChE. 

l.ayola University. Graduate School of Buainess B in all dtsc:iplines. 
NeVeort N_.s Shipbuildina B in EE, ME. MEIO. 
Prudential Inaurance Company B in Lib. Arts. 

State Hutual of America (John R. Kalb Agency) 
1. Insurance. l. B in all dlsdplinea. ). pecialize in aaha of life, group, health and property . nd casualty inaurance, Mutual Funds. Upon c0111pletion of three year program, options to enter into field sales, Han.agement full time career sales, or h01ne office manage­ment. 4. Greater Chicagoland area. 5. Citizenahip req. 
Caterpillar Tr.ctor Company B in all Engr diac1pl1nea. BBA, t1RA and Lib. Arta. 
Aetna Life 6 Caaualty B ln AL and BA, Coap Sci. 
Babcock 6o Wilcox B in Ch!, (%. aM in EE, ME. 

Chryahr Corporation . aM in all Enar dlsclpllnu for Chryaler Institute of Engr Student Traineu. B in all Engr dlacipllnea for 
Hanufacturina Hanagl'ment Trainee. 
Eaataan Kodak CompanY aH in EI, HI, M£10, ChE, Cheal. 
Hewitt Asaoclatu 

1. Hanaa...nt Consultants. 2. B in Econ, Fin, Acct. Math, Cot~~p Sci. J. Data Ad11intttraton, Benefit Analyata. 4. Linc:olnahire, IL. 5. Citlunahip req. 
Howmet Turbine Coaponenta Corporation BH in Het, J1.E •• ChE. 
~iatea, Inc. 
• 1M ..in HE, ChE and M.t. 
Nrw York• Univentty B in all diacipllnes. 

Kurt Salmon Associate•. Inc. BH in Engr Sci, HE. HEIO. MBA with underand tech degree preferred. 
U.S. Air Force BH in all diacip.1.uea. 

PtHlnacel, a Johnson •nd Johnson C0111pany All B8A. 
Brunswick Coreor.ation 8 in Acct, Fin. 

National !ank of Detroit B in Aect, Fin. HBA with Acct, Fin bksrd or conctrn. 
Travelers Insurance Company A-ll BBA. 8 in all F.ngr dlaeiplinu. 
~~~ 

B ln A-=ct. HBA with Acct bksrd or conctrn. 
AMOCO 011 Company (Refining. Trat'laportation 6 Engr) BM in KE, EE, ChE, CE. 
St.111dard 011 Company Ondiana) B in Acct. 
ACTION/Peat'r Larp11/VlSTA BM in all dU !plinu. JD. 

A.'l:lCO RrsPan:h .._rnter, Research 6o : ''.·· 1opraent Deptl5 of AMOCO -Chemtcalll, AMOCO Oil Co. (Sub•' ~. 1rtea of Standard 
~~ ~~·C~~.Tn~~~~a!~ Analvtical, lnorga!'1t f'rgani~ and 
Alr Product"_.!!'!L.Q!.t•micah, ln_£. 
B-~JHt:. 

CITIISANK "'f Nw Y\•rk 1-."FUTf~rVTc~.'""i\an"k.lnJl. 1.. ABA, MBA. J, Tr~asury Dtv. 
4. Nt•w York Cllv. \, Prnn. Res. Vtaa required. 
Internal Revenue Service. U.S. Dept. of the Treasury 
1. Government Tax Compllanc(•. 2. B in At'ct. MBA with Hgt or Acct concentration. ). Revenue Agent (Special Agent); Tax Au11tor. 4. Throushout Indiana. ~. Citlzenahtp r•qulred. 
H.illiken 6 COibpany 8 in EE and HE. BH in ChE and Chem. MJ!o,\ 'loJith Kst concentration. 
LAW SCHOOLS 

Dickinson L.aw School Nov. 16 Seton Hall L.;rw School Nov. lb 
Sign-up aht:· -f<tr Law School interviews are en the Pre-L•" ':.cciety Bullet in BoaTds in 0' Shaushneasy h., i 1 
Pope decides to reveal state of Vatican finances to cardinals 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope john Paul II told an extraordi­nary meeting of Roman Catho­lic cardinals yesterday he has decided to disclose to them the state of the Vatican's finances. He said it was their ''right and duty to have an exact know­ledge of the present state of the matter.'' 
The Pope's declaration in a keynote speech was believed the first time in modern church history that a pontiff offered the College of Cardinals a look at the Vatican's books, which have been a closely guarded secret known only to a few insiders. 
Opening the meeting, the Pope outlined the agenda which includes reports on the econo­mic situation of the Holy See by 
Its  top  financial  experts  on  
Tuesday:  
The Vatican  spokesman,  the  

Rev. Romeo Panciroli, earlier announced that the pontiff's speech to the closed meeting would not be made public. But cardinals approached by repor­ters while leaving the meeting said some questioned the initial decision and the Pope decided to release his text. 
John Paul, who just completed 
• • • 21 
[continued from page 4] 
Indiana States superstar now with the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Associa­tion. 
''I can handle it either way, because I'm young. My life is not going to be wrapped up in sorrow if I lose thts,'' Cmdy said. "But this is what I'm hoping -that people will just give me a shot at it.'' if 'I don't do good in four years, you won't see me runni'rig in four years . 
the first year of his pontificate, called all 129 cardinals to Rome for the extraordinary meeting to examine problems facing the church. 
The pontiff is reported to be anxious to brief the cardinals on at least some details of the Vatican's financial picture, which Vatican officials say is far from rosy despite reports of the Holy See's immense wealth. 

Reporters and were allowed only to start of the meeting, opened with a Latin prayer a welcoming address to Pope by Carlo Confalonieri 86-year-old dean of the "'u'""'"''~ of Cardinals. 
Reporters were to leave as the Pope stood up and reading his speech in Latin. 
But I know I can  handle this  Another Theissman or Montana?  Probably not-but a student  
job."  shows his bestform during a quadfootball game. [photo by Tim  
McKeogh]  


: ...-., .....· -.-............ . " ·. ~ . . .~ ........ . -·..... ·-~~·.·.-. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1979 -page 9 

• • • Klan 

[continued from page 3] and to tell Cecil whether they 
plarined to hire a lawyer. 
At the White House, press Wearing wrinkled and ill-fit­secretary Jody Powell said the ting jail-issued coveralls, most ) ustice D-epartment has esta-of the men stood passively and blished a special unit to investi-said nothing except for simple gate the violence and has two answers to Cecil's questions. dozen FBI agents on the scene. One defendant, however, 
''The resurgence of the Klan asked the judge if he could is a matter of concern to the make a statement. Cecil president," Powell said. "How-agreed. ever much we may disagree we "God save America and this have demonstrated our stance honorable court,'' Rayford in favor of freedom of speech Milano Caudle said as he left and freedom of expression but the courtroom. we cannot and will not condone The defendants were brought advancement ofviews b;:.y.t......;;;.a..:..ct=-=s~o:.:f__b_ac_k_t_o_t_h_e_c_o_u_r_tr_o_o_m_~_o_r_a_b_r_i_ef 
' ... we cannot and will not condone advancement of views by acts of violence.' 
violence.'' 
The press secretary said Car­ter ·'like all Americans'' abhors attempts by such agoups to "draw their fragile and ill­directed support from bigotry and prejudice.'' 
In yesterday's court hearing, District Court Judge Robert Cecil ordered the defendants jailed pending a probable-cause hearing on Nov. 20. He denied bond for any of the men after Schlosser described them as "a band of marauders, 14 strong, who descended on Guilford County and cut a path of destruction that left dead and bloody bodies.'' 
In handcuffed pairs, the de­fendants were brought into the courtroom to hear the charges bond hearing after their initial appearances. All but one asked to have court-appointed attor­neys. 
In an unusual security move, Cecil ordered families and friends of the suspects as well as other spectators kept out of the courtroom, but news report­ers were allowed to view the proceedings. 
Numerous unanswered ques­tions remained regarding Sat­urday's shootings. 
NelsonJohnson, an organizer of the anti-Klan rally, said at a news conference Sunday that the site of the gathering had been discreetly moved 10 an attempt to prevent wiolence but the attackers apparentsly had no problem finding where the 

It's late afternoon at WSND AM 640, as the 4-5 p.m. disc jockey prepares to go on the air. Pz:ctured is ~ike "mouth of the soutk" Tanner, who was recently appointed AM program dzrector dunng a restructunng ofstatzon management. [photo by Tim McKeogh] 
marchers were gathered. Also, police were unable to explain exactly why the nearest officers were about a block away. 
Police said ] ohnson was asked by one officer to postpone the march as the crowd began to gather. But]ohnson categor­ized that statement as "a lie. This did not happen." 
Cambodia accepts pledge of 
$186 million in aid 
UNITED NATIONS (A P) -A 
U.N. 
conference of an appalling magnitude" in Cambodia brought aid pledges of $186 million in its opening session yesterday. The Phnom Penh government said it would let relief shipments inro the coun­try via the Mekong River. 

U.N. 
Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim, who opened the conference on ways to end the suffering of an estimated 2 million persons in the war-torn Indochinese country, called on ''all concerned to cooperate fully . . . in facilitating the distribution of our supplies.'' 


He said arrangements for delivery of relief supplies should ''assure us and the donors that they arrive in the hands of the suffering civilians for whom they are destined.'' 
Waldheim's comments ap­peared to be an appeal to the government of Premier Heng Samrin and its Soviet and Vietnamese backers, who have held up distribution of relief supplies because they do not want them to go to areas of the country controlled by former 
Premier  Pol  Pot,  who  was  
ousted last ] ap.uary.  
Waldheim  mentioned  no  

names and neither did the other speakers, who urged that the rival factions in Cambodia put aside their differences for the sake of the relief program. 
Secretary ofState Cyrus Vance cited th, desperate need for aid to relieve suffering <:;ambodia and declared, "Some issues transcend politics. This is one of them.'' 
In a statement broadcast yes­terday by the Vietnam News 
Bowls remain to be filled 
(AP) Yes, Sugar Bowl, there is a Virginia. Lnfortunately, there also is a Georgia, which still is only two victories away from a January 1 trip to New Orleans despite Saturday's embarras­sing 31-0 thrashing by Virginia. 
Georgia's loss left the Bull­dogs at 4-4 overall. But they have had the presence of mind to win their four Southeastern Conference games while drop­pi~g their four non-league af­
fairs.  
Still  to  come  are  Florida  
(SEC)  next weekend,  Auburn  
(SEC)  .on  November  17  and  

Georgia Tech (ACC) on Decem­ber 1. If the Bulldogs win the first two, they go to the Sugar Bowl regardless of what top­rated Alabama does. 
They'll go even if Alabama ties Georgia for the conference lead, which the Crimson Tide did Saturday by defeating Mis­
sissippi State, 24-7. The Orange and Cotton Bowls, of course, are solidly in Georgia:s corner and are ready to wage a duel to the death over Alabama-if the occasiOn warrants. 
The Orange Bowl would like 
· to J?air the Crimson Tide in a natiOnal championship · show­down with runnerup Nebraska, which nipped Missouri 23-20 on Dean Sukup's 19-yard field goal with 3: 15 remaining. 
Agency, the Heng Samrin government said it was ''from now on ready to receive what ever quantity of humanitarian aid . . . . without _politi<;al conditions." ·•n•• rr'l" ~~ 
Schneider stands 
out 
by Kelly Sull£van 
Sue Schneider, a Saint Mary's senior, has been named the recipient of the business award given by the accounting firm of Ernst & Whinney. The firm selected Schneider as the most outstandin~ accounting major. She received $500 in cash.. 
The annual award, given only to seniors, is based on grade point average and a student's potential to succeed in public accounting. Students nominate themselves by filling out an application for the award dur­ing their junior year. Saint Mary's faculty and administra­tion members, as well as the manager of the local Ernst & Whinney firm, comprise the selection committee. 
Regarding her selection, Schneider remarked, ''I really feel honored to be able to represent Saint Mary's College with this award." On Nov. 14, the award will be presented to Schneider at a dinner for all senior accounting majors, facul­ty, and administration. 
• 
CELEBRATION/RIVER CITY Proudly Pr•s•nts 

'jDotly Jatchet 

with Special Guests 
Point Blank 
Thutsday, Novembet 15 8:00pm 
ffiottls Civic Audltotlum 
South S.nd 


Rlv•r City R•corda (U.S. 31 North, W••'-rn Av••• ffilah«lw«lkel An. & Dun•• PIClZCl In ffilchlg«ln City) 

r:~ }
~:). 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, November 6, 1979 page 10 

Molarity 



ACROSS 28 Sculpted One-liner, 32 · Direction
The Daily Crossword 
for one a sea 5 Certain 33 Yucca's 
leaf cousin 10 Eight: pref. 34 Eggs 14 Verify as 35 Weekend 
true reading 15 Scuttlebutt matter 16 Gator's 39 Honshu bay 
cousin 40 "An apple , 17 Feature -keeps ... of 35 A 41 -citato 20 Certain 42 Recent 
data org. arrival 21 Utopia 45 Gains by 22 Fit to farm force 23 Wiretaps 46 City in 24 KO Syria 25 Sheer 47 Very much 
fabric 48 Ordinance 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


© 1979 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 
1116179 
by Michael Molinelli UT 

~---­
FOR RoH,w U\1MOI..iC5, 1HE 


51 Ms. Vague 23 Globule 52 -spree 24 Ostenta· 
(carousing) tious 55 Screamers 25 Sink 58 Leif's feature 
father 26 Maltreat 59 Delete 27 Subscribe 60 RiSI'l'''': again 
61 pt,.;:;: Jr 28 Pellucid 
oase 29 Runs easily 62 Struck out 30 Tennis name 63' "Vissi d'-" 31 Challenges 
33 Alpaca's DOWN milieu Window 36 Complained feature persis­
2 Facial tently shape 37 Door 3 Beer con­38 Anthropoids tainers 43 Small bug 4 Baseball 44 Muck 
stat. 45 Phrased 5 Cross over 47 Charter 6 Old Norse 48 Genesis 
poems name 7 Hymn-ender 49 A Roosevelt 8 Lettuce 50 Agitated variety state 9 Pacts 51 Meat 10 Gas pump 52 Lollapa­word looza 11 Nursery 53 Upcoming 
feature 54 "-sow, 12 Implement so ..." 13 Skin 56 Charle­
problem magne's 18 Rhetorical realm: abbr. device 57 "A rose­19 Shank rose ..." 

promotes QB Rudder 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) Senior David Rudder was moved ahead of sopliomore Jeff Ols­zewski as TenneSsee's No. 2 quarterback yesterday as the Vols began preparing for Sarur­day' s game againsr Notre Dame. 
Olszewski saw more than a quarter of playing rime in last week· s I 1-6 loss to Rutgers when _I immyStrearer was pulled from the game after throwing three interceptions. 
But Oi·,;-~wski, hitting three of six attern· ·s and losing three yards on three carries, was unable to move the ball any better than Streater. Tennessee coach Johl ''Y Majors has said finding a r>LW quartf"rback for 
the gradua.. ng Streater is  his  
No.  I  recruiting  pnority  for  
1980.  

"I don't anticipate our play­ing like we did against Rutgers again," Majors said, looking at the upcoming game with the Irish. "But if we do, we'll get run out of the ballpark.'' 
Junior Val Barksdale was moved back onto the first team as a safety after freshman Bill Bates hun his knee in the ·Rutgers game and will be out 
this Saturdrv 

At middle. guard,Steve Kluge, a walk-on player, replaced Carl­ton Gunn, who is listed as a doubtful for Notr"' Dame with a hurt ankle. 
"Now it's a matter of pride," Majors said of his 4-3 team. "We can have an opportunity to salvage a good seasori or have a mediocre or a poor one.'' 
Toni Fritsch 
V! .l , l •.fQ kl ndA hl • lifts Oilers 
l_ 'In ey ssa eo, 
,a 
NEW YORK (AP) -The long 
anticipated sale and transfer of 
Charles 0. Finley's Oakland 
A's franchise to Denver may be 
completed before the end of the 
month, The Associated Press· 
learned yesterday. 

The sale would bring major 
league baseball to Colorado 
beginning in 1980, and there 
were indications that oil mil­
lionaire Marvin Davis, the anti­
cipated buyer, already has 
;,egun assembling a manage­
ment team. 

AI Rosen, who quit his post as 
president of the New York 
Yankees to become an execu­
tive with an Atlantic City· 
gambling casino, was reported 
m line to head the team's front 
office operation. 

While none of the participants 
would specifically ~onfirm the 
transacuon, they d1d not deny 
it. Instead, they hedged, 
perhaps afraid of damaging the 
deal which fell through once 
before, in 1978. 

But the AP learned from a 
knowledgt·able baseball source 
that obstacles which blocked 
the sale before have been eased 
and the deal is virtually certain 
to be completed this time. 
Negotiations should be wrap­ped up some time this month enabling the transaction to be presented for American League approval during the winter baseball meetings next month in Toronto, the source indica­ted. 
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, who was deeply upset when the Denver move abruptly fell through in April 1978, flew to Oakland during the World 
a t ettcsnears MIAMI(AP)--Veteran lace-
Series with American League President Lee MacPhail to dis­cuss terms of a sta<;liJ.tW l!',:,as·e settlement with city officials. 
"I am in a no comment situation on that one," Kuhn said when asked about the sale. ''I did go to Oakland and I have been continuing my efforts in this matter, but I'm afraid that's all I can say." 
MacPhail said, "We have known for the last several years that the (Oakland -San Francis­co Bay area) territory can not support two dubs. We have talked over this matter in the past and are still pursuing it." Asked if the transfer was 
imminent, MacPhail said 
"Well, not today, not nex~. · weeL It ~~h~t t~r .irrlminent, but we are still hopeful that the 
problem can be solved." 
Finley, controversial owner of the A's, has been trying to sell the team for the past three yt;ars and apparently is close to a satisfactory agreement with Davis, who came within a whisker of buying the club · before. · 
When confronted with reports of the sale being finalized, Finley replied, ''No comment. The club is for sale. That's all I can say." 
The mavarick A's owner pre­viously has been outspoken on the subject. This time, how­ever, he was tight-lipped, say­ing "I couldn't tell you any­thmg about that." . 
Davis was unavailable for comment. 
Rosen, reached at his Atlantic City headquarters, said: ''I have no comment. I am flattered that anyone would consider me for an executive job in baseball. I have just taken this new position and my wife is busy moving from our New York apartment to Atlantic City." 

kicker Toni Fritsch drilled field goals of46, 48 and 39 yards last night as the Hou<>ton Oilers struggled past error-plagued Miami for a 9-6 National Foot­ball League victory. 
The victory improved the Oilers' record to 7-3 and tied them with Cleveland for second place in the American Confer­ence Central Division. The Dol­phins, 6-4, dropped one game behind New England in the AFC East. 
Rookie Uwe von Schamann booted a 32-yard field goal to give the Dolphins a 3-0 first· quarter lead and drew them to within 9-6 with a 51-yarder with 
12:26 left j, the game. 
================================================~ 
At Huntington 
••• Seniors 
[continuedfrom page 121
Bellesdroptwo, winone 
a foul. The result was a free 
by Kate Huffman Sports Wn'ter 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team traveled to Huntington for a quad meet Thursday. The Belles started off the night dismally, dropping their first two matches to Huntington College and Valparaiso by game scores of 6-15, 14-16, and 6-15, 14-16 respectively. In the third match, the Belles came from behind to beat Taylor University by scores of 8-15, 15·9, 15-4. 
"I was a little disappointed in losing against Huntington," said Belles' coach Erin Mur­phy, ''we will play them at state but I guess we'll just have to work a little harder to beat them when it comes." 
''We play Taylor first in state. They are last year's statt champion, so I was very happy to beat them, now we have the advantage," offered Murphy after the victory. 
Murphy complimented soph­omore Amy Terri and freshman Marianne Viola for their spiking in the meet. Terri was 9 for 15 kills on spike attempts and Viola scored on 19 out of 24 
attempted spikes in one match. 
Accordins to Murphy, Ellen Hoye contmued to do well in the· ont row with good spiking and 
blocking averages. Amy Morris and Kathy Monahan showed great stamina, setting for the entire seven games the Belles played. 
The highlight of the evening was freshman Peggy Pieschel' s phenominal defensive playing. ''I put her in in the middle of our second match for her serve receiving ability," said Mur­phy. "She just walked out there and took over the court. She was unbelievable!'' 
The Belles final regular season match before meeting Taylor University in the first round of state competition will be to­morrow night when they travel to Goshen for a dual match. 

kick that enabled Kevin Lovejoy to hit freshman Mark Luetke­hans 30 yards out and all alone. Luetkehans gave Richardson no chance as he rifled a shot just below the crossbar. 
Luetkehans scored a~ain, his fourth of the season, when he headed in a corner kick from Jay Schwartz, another fresh­man, 18 minutes later. 
Freshman Steve Berry, play­ing in only his second varsity game finish~d the scoring with 
11:32 ren ng. Berry made a pass to k ..ow rc1l:k1e Brian McCurrie who, finJing no room to operate, returned the ball to the Greensboro, North Carolina native for the fourth goal of his Notre Dame career. 
The Observer-SportsBoard Tuesday, November 6, 1979-page 11 

Football 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East W L T Pet. PF PA 

New England 7 3 0 .700 261 155 Miami 6 4 0 .600 179 142 N.Y. Jets 5 5 0 .500 221 249 Buffalo 4 6 0 .400 200 185 Baltimore 4 6 0 .400 171 207 Central Pittsburgh 8 2 0 .800 264 157 Cleveland 7 3 0 .700 235 224 Houston 730.700 212 212 Cincinnati 2 8 0 .200 211 248 
West 

Denver  7  3  0 .700  147 149  
San Diego Oakland  7 6  3 4  0 .700 0 .600  244 173 228 194  
Kansas City Seattle  4 4  6 6  0 400 0 .400  157 152 203 233  

NATIONAL CONFERENCE East Dallas 8 2 0 .800 219 160 Philadelphia 6 4 0 .600 184 187 Washington 6 4 0 .600 178 163 
N.Y. Giants 4 6 0 .400 162 195 St. Louis 3 7 0 .300 190 206 
Central Tampa Bay 7 3 0 .700 194 160 Chicago 5 5 0 .500 185 173 Minnesota 4 6 0 .400 161 232 Green Bay 3 7 0 .300 152 203 Detroit 1 9 0 .100 148 245 
West Los Angeles 5 5 0 .500 179 185 New Orleans 5 5 0 .500 214 205 Atlanta 4 6 0 .400 205 226 San Francisco 1 9 0 .100 186 270 
Monday night's result Houston 9, Miami 6 

Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Send $1.00 for your 306-page catalog of collegiate research. 10,250 topics listed. Box 25097G, Los Angeles, California, 90025. (213)477-8226 
Anyone interested In running a Presi­dential Campaign for the mock Repub!l­can convention. Call Kevin 1166 
Lyons Specialty Advertising. Badges, decals and many other types of promo­tional materials. Call Mike G. 232-3815 
Janie Byrne for V. P. committee now taking applications. SMC grads given preference for paid positions. No qualifications necessary. Watch for further details. 

t&Found 
Found: medallion from Sonia to Jose at Stepan fields. 3265. 
Lost: Mesn silver Rolex wristwatch. Lost at Stepan basketball courts 10/29. Reward call Chris at 1852 
Lost on 11/1: A gold cross and chain. Great sentimental value. Owner in mourning. Marie 8028. 
lost-Blue Jacket with White ND insignia at USC game, Gold watch was in pocket. If found Call Joe at 233-6024 
Lost: Beige French coat last seen ­kitchen behind LeMans front desk before break. Celia, 4611 
Lost 1979 Class Ring, P.D.R. initialed, Gold Stone, reward. Call Joe 232-7456 
Lost: Green American Congress note­book in the coat racks outside A-line. Please return the notes; the final is cumulative. Call Bob at am 
After Inventory Discovered: 
Lost: last spring a gold necklace with diamond pendant and a gold flower­
linked bracelet. 
Lost: Thursday Oct. 18 navy short-waisted jacket. 
Lost: Friday Oct. 19 royal blue LaCoste sweater in Ladies Room of Grace Hall. 
Please contact Cammy 4489 
Lost: 1979 silver class ring. Initialed AMC, blue stone. Please call Ann at 4-1-5282 
Lost Green spiral notebook in Business Building on Wednesday Oct. 31. Call Mike at 6866 
Lost: Gold Ring w/Biack Stone. Clyle High School 1957. Extreme Personal Value. Reward. Please call Karen 8163 

Live free for Nov.! N.C. Apt. for Rent. Call Mark 1215 or 233-6284 after 10 p.m. 77.50/mon. 
Furnished country house eight minutes to campus 277-3604 or 287-7018 
Garage for rent two blocks from campus. 277-3604 or 287-7018 
Furnished 4to 6bedroom house for rent. Now or next semester. Waling distance to campus. Call 272-1729 after 5:00. 
Wanted 
Royal Valley Ski school, Buchanan, Mi is now accepting applications for Alpine and Nordic instructors, part-time or full time. No experience neccessary. Call 616-695­3847 or South Bend, 256-2885 
Wanted (1) United Airlines discount coupon. Call 7934. 
Wanted: 1 United discount tix. Call Frank, 8693 
Overseas Jobs -Summer/year round Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. 
All Fields. $500-$1,200 monthly. Expenses paid Sightseeing. Free info­Write: IJG, Box 52-14 Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625 
Buspersons and dishpersons needed ­male or female. Apply at the Carriage House 24460 Adams Road 272-9220 
Female needs apartment and roommates for spring semester 'Call 6777 
Wanted-Herbie's Deli needs driver for campus route, 12-14 hrs./wk. Good pay. Must have transportation 234-6519 or 234-3400. 
Help 3 desperately need ride to Milwau­kee Friday Nov. 9 and then back on Sunday, Nov. 11. Will pay for all expenses. Call Mark 8653 
Paying $10 men's, $5 women's for class rings. Any condition. Will arrange pick-up. Phone toll -free 1-80D-835 -2246 anytime. 
Waitress Wanted, Age 21 and over. Oriental Restaurant. 114 W. Ireland Rd. Apply in person 2-5 p.m. 
For Sale 
For Sale: two L78-15 belted snow tires. $50. Call Steve at 8661 or 1432 
Peach crates are now In stock at River City Records, 511970 U.S. 31 North Great for storing records, books, plants, etc. 
For Sale -2 United discount tix. Call Alice 277-5695 
Konica Auto S2 Camera 1:18, 1/500, Not SLR-EXT. 4234 
1970 vw for sale $475 or best offer Call Tom at 232-5f'45 
2 Bedroom House. $26,900. Walk or cycle to Nctre Dame from Wooded Estates. Assume 8%VA mortgage. Marian Voss Life Realty 272-6330 or 233-6779 
1968 Rambler $200 needs battery will get you home -Call 7979. 
For Sale -goose -down reversable coat with hood in excellent condition. Worn for one winter but am <allergic to feathers Must Sell. Best offer. Call Mike 1659. 
• • • These guys 

[continued from page 12] 
headlines or millions of fans at our games, but the peo_ple on this team are great to be around, and I feel like I'm a better person for having associated with all of them. My satisfaction comes from just being a member ofthe team and contributing in any way I can." 
Both Nauman and McCurrie have contributed, lest there be any doubt about that, and Hunter readily calls attention to their accomplishments and sadly points out that both will be missed. 
''Tim was our most valuable player last year with only three goals and five assists,'' Hunter points out. "That has to tell you how much he means to the team. Danny played just as well and, had he started the enure season, there's 
just no telling what he might have done." But neither player wants to talk about himself as the long drive from Columbus nears an end. 
"It's the .l?eople," sighs McCurrie as he stares out the wmdow. "That's what made it so great.'' 
Which just about ends the story unless you want to add a post script which mtght read: 
"They gave what they had to their teammates and friends and everyone reaped the benefits of the relationship." 
And you really don't have to say anything more. "Except that we had a lot of fun doing it," smiles Nauman. But that goes without saying. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. Tilt Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail. 

MONGOLIAN DOG SLED TEAM CROSSING THE COU~TRY STOPPING
Tickets 
IN SOUTH BEND ON THE 17th. NEED GA CLEMSON TICKETS AND 1 CASE OR ALPO. MICK-8212 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Clem­son! Please call 7831. · 
Wanted 1 GA or st jent ticket for Clemson -Mark 8455 
Personals 
Clemson GA's · many needed: groups What can Joe Lohmuller do in the hay?
together or at least in pairs; Call collect How many hayrides will Dave Campbell any day after 9:00P.M. (716)-586-8690 
volunteer to escort girls on? Will Jim Shoppee drink the Junior class out of Need 6 Tennessee. Will pay $$$$ Jeff house and home? Will Mary Steiner and
8764. 
Mags insist upon singing "Bury me out on the old Lone Prairie? There's only one Wanted: 2adjacent G.A. Clemson Tix. way to find out-go to the Junior Call Barn
Marie 4-1-4677 
dance Hayride Saturday, Nov. 1 0 from 9-1 -cost is only $3.50 -talk to your hall Ned Needs 2-4 Student tix for Navy, and reps or get aticket in the dining hall this 
2-20 GA or student tickets for Tennessee week! away. Phone 8897 Heidi Lang-Wanted: GA tickets for any home games. Watch out for the Greebatten from the Must be two or more together. Call North Quad.287-3311 Danny -Joe MB 
$25.00 Need ND-UT football tickets Nov. Yo,
10. Will pay $25 per. Send tickets Sorry about the way I've been acting.
C.O.D. to Kurt 1025 Sunset Dr. Do you remember what you said Sat. 
Chattanooga Tenn. 37377 night? Well, I'm ready -O.K.? How about ,having a private celebration, of 
I need 6 tenn. tickets Call Russ at my approaching victory, on Friday n 277-1761 after 11 p.m. night? From anot too shabby guy
Need 5or 6tickets to N.D.-Tenn. game. Call 683-1359 
To all of you poor folks who have had occasion to call me and found me asleep.Need 2 G.A. Tennessee tickets. Big $. Just because I answer the phone with a 
Call1056. 
grunt, and can't remember my name ­-------.---,--Don't hang up. T~e only time I'm home Needed -_5,4,3, or 2G.A sor 3 GAs <J,fld 2 ·' _-·~ rs w,~en I'm asleep -.even at 4 in the student trx for CMmsdlr.-0~225f afterndon. So..bear Mth me, remind me 
who I am and give me your message -1 
Badly need 2 or 4 Tenn. Tix. Call Ed at might even remember it! In Ma Bell's 234-1530. Thanks. name-Ryan "person to person"
Need 1 Clemson G.A. ticket. Name 
Ver Berkmoes Price, Kevin 289-1718 P.S. for best results try at 5 in the morning.
Need 4 ·renn.GA tix. Will pay$$$ call Carl (8916) Dear Dave, If the Hat fits, wear it! Glad you were I need 2 GA tickets for Clemson Please. there Sat. night. 'Twas great from start 
Call Tim at 3117 to finish!! The Owner of the Hat 
Need 4 GA tennessee tix. Call Joe 232-7456 WHO IS BOB SENESE? 
In dire need of tix for Tennessee game. Pete L.­Call John 234-5284 
1'd like to take this chance to thank you 
for the lovely time I had this weekend. I need two G.A. Clemson tickets. Call Lomez, I had agreattime and I'm lookingMaryeva at (SMC) 5157 forward to doing it again? 
Love & kisses 

Needed: 10-12 Clemson Tix (any kind) Barb for beautiful sisters and friends. Call P.S. where did you develop that great3579 or 3650 technique? 
I need Clemson student tickets Call1756 Dear Sex Goddes, or 6833 
I want you to know I send my love to you. I have no other world but you ... You smile is my sun ... Your eyes my stars...
Wanted: One G.A. or student ticket for Your face ~ ., moon ... Your touch andClemson. Call 8923. 
warm caress ···y earth and food. You are the one whom I fear to meet each day andNeed 10 GA tix to Clemson Game. Call yet I cannot wait until I do. I know the(SMC) 4349 choking of the words that are never spoken.
Friends coming up. Need two tickets for 
jet'aime,

Clemson Game. Please call Kit. 4762 Stockman Sex-God,(SMC) 
a.k.a. Geiser of Love 

Needed: 4 tix to Tennessee game. Will pay big bucks!! ! Call 1745 
Psycho!!-Nice meeting you! Still need rides
Desperately need 4 Tenn. tix call Lee Lauri, Leslie, & Beth
1738 or 1697 
.694, now .705 Need Tenn. tix. Call 41-410.1 -Tracy 
Matt R., Thanks for helping out Monica & 1!!
Need up to 15 Tennessee GA tix. Will Love,pay $12 each. Call Diane 7906 
Beth Need 3-4 GA Clemson tix. Please call 
Michael,
John or Dan #3322 
Thanks for the wheat thins and yogurt, a Halloween Masquerade, a day of studyNeed 2-4 floor tickets for Eagles Concert. 
and the 100 center.
Please call 232-4462 after 5:30. 
Love, Ellen 
Underworld things that crawl, Traditionally "off the wall," Gangsters, ghosts, mud, Fish, worms, and crud, Attend! you little dirt ball' Beaux Arts Costume Ball Nov. 10. 9 p.m. Theme "Underworlds" Architecture building 
Reesie-Your presence is requested at all possible moments, expecially between 
6:00 & 7:00p.m. I'll even up my offer to 6 
bits. -The Hillbilly 
abecedary: of or relating to the alphabet Need Help? Dial 'OBUD' 
WSND AM 64 bids you Au Bowl with new rock 'n roll -contest begins today 
Lost Blue Jacket with white N.D. insignia at U.S.C. game. Gold watch was in pocket. If found call Joe at 233-6024 
Bruce Springstein imports now in stock at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 North, 3 miles North of Campus. Open till 10:00 
p.m. 7 days a week. 
St. W.ary's • Notre Dame Summer Program • London &Rome. Travel in Ireland, Scotland, England, France, Germany, Switzerland & Italy. College Courses available. For Informa­tion call Prof. A. R. Black at 2114-4948 [office[ or 272-3726 [home]. 
Ahoy Sailors The sailing club is looking for sailors who have any big boat racing experience. We need crew to race Luder 44 ft. at Annapolis. Call Phil 8732 
Zeus, 
Please be more careful! when you are playing with vacuum cleaners. 
Flynn is really going to Tennessee! The Magic Bus Rides again. 
I hear DAN's pockets got abused this weekend. 
CC MCCAUGHEY ­YOU ARE SO BEAUTIFUL! WHEN WILL YOU GO OUT WITH ME? 
GUESS WHO? 
Joan and Beth, How come I didn't get any brownies? 
Kit B., 
Bashful, Doc, Dopey, Grumpy, Happy, Sleepy, and Sneezy. Also Pompeii and Herculaneum. Now I'm as smart as you. The Pope. 
CLASSIFIED ADS Payment: All classifleds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mail. Deadline: All classified ads must be received by 1:P.M. the day prior to the issue in which the ad is to be run. The Observer office will accept classifleds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. 
Sexy SMC chick needs ride to Indiana­polis on Saturday morning (Nov. 10) Call Gina at 41-4101. 
Hi Joyce Manthay'' Congratulations on your first personal!!! 
F. 
Lauri and Leslie, 
It was great seeing you again, please call so we can do something soon!!! Ju5t so you get over your pinball stage and we can get into some heavy drinking and toe stepping-on!!!! 
EAH 
./ 


---~--~-~-.........------­
-. f 

Tuesday, November 6, 1979-page 12
SRorts 
Only Valpo left 
Buckeyes fall to Irish, 2-0 
by Frank LaGrotta problems and coming up with a ance man for Notre Dame when Sports Wn'ter great effort here this after-he collected a pass from Love­noon.'' joy and chipped it past Grimes 
COLUMBUS--For the Notre The first half brought back wnh only 14 minutes left in the Dame soccer team, ''Can we or yawns from Saturday's football game. The freshman's third can't we?'' had become the game, as both teams had plenty goal of the season pounded the question of the day. Suffering ofchances but neither managed last nail in the Buckeye coffin, recently from what can only be to punch it across. The as the Irish played tough de­termed a lack of consistancy, Buckeyes appeared to score fense and never let their op­the Irish took great strides 10 earfy in the game, but a hand ponents get close to the goal. answering that question, as ball was called and the goal did "We just played well in all well as many of their critics, not count. areas today," concluded Hun­when they dumped Ohio State Had Woody Hayes been at ter. "We got good play from 2-0 on Sunday. The victory the game, he surely would have our halfbacks and our goalie, boosted Notre Dame's record to considered punching an official, John Milligan. Those ktnd of 19-10-1 with only this after­as the game was marked with things make the difference. '' noon's game at Valparaiso re­many questionable calls. Hun­Milligan turned back 12 shots maining on the schedule. ter and Ohio State coach AI for the Irish while Grimes 
"I think we saw the real Bianco protested vehemently registered only two saves for Notre Dame soccer team to­on several occasions, and both Ohio State. However, the day," pointed out a jubilant coaches expressed dissatisfac­Buckeyes outshot the Irish Rich Hunter. "It's no secret tion with the officiating after 24-10. that we've been having trouble the game. with a few areas of our game, It looked as if the defensive but give our kids credit for battle would continue in the Hanner, 0-C to vie working hard to correct those second half until, with 19:12 
gone, junior forward Kevin Flanner will meet Off-Cam­Lovejoy rifled a direct kick past pus later this week for the Buckeye goalie, Mike Grimes, champoinship of the fall inter­to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. hall soccer league. Details con­''Kevin just shot it perfecr­cerning game time and location
Seniors shine in 4-0 victory 
ly," said Hunter. "He kicked it will be announced at a later hard, and it was right on date. target. '' The goal raised Love­Both teams earned a spot in
b_y Gary Grassey · 1979. slots. 
joy's season scoring total to 21 the finals with wins in Sunday's Sports Wn'ter The first half was all Notre With 12:413 elapsed in the half, goals, and it triggered an Irish semi-final action. Flanner de­Dame, but the work of the Mai took a clearing pass from attack that closed the lid on feated Carroll 1-0 in overtimeOn Friday evening, Notre Wildcat defenders kept the deep in Irish territorv and drew Ohio State. while Off-Campus slipped byDame said farewell to tts gradu­Irish from scoring. The crisp [continued on page 10] Mario Manta played insur-Dillon Hall, 2-1.
ating soccer players. And in passing and relentless pressure what was to be their final home of the Notre Dame attack, 
game. the seniors and their though, continued after the temmates did not let down the halfttme interlude and finally fans that came to cheer them on resulted in a goal at the 3: 11 
It doesn't bother these guys 
despite near-freezing temper­mark. Bill Wetterer fed Mike atures. as they toppled visiting Mai from the right wing_and the junior forward from Houston,
Northwestern, 4-0. · COLUMBUS --At some point, it becomes a 
"I'm glad we were able to play Texas, fired a 30-yard shot over matter of necessity for a sports writer or team like thts tonight,'' said Irish the bewildered Wildcat goalie publicist to single out certain individuals for Frank coach Rich Hunter. "It's a nice Leon Henderson and under the their performance during a game or throughout way.~or them (the seniors) to go crossbar for a 1-0 lead. a season. Usually albeit sadly, the attention 
LaGrotta

our. The Irish proceeded to put goes to the players who record vzsual accom­
.5J>orts Writer · 

While a variety of injuries Northwestern to rout. A blank­plishments--score points, block kicks, stop prevented Tom Crotty, Paul eting defense around goalie pucks or. in some cases, make mistakes. 
Devereux and Oliver Franklin John Milligan and his replace­from face-off to the final air horn, Nauman and
'Conseqiwntly, the players who do their job day 
from participating, classmates ment, Gerard McCartny, allow­McCurrie appear to give more than Hunter gives
after day--the ones who don't score a lot but 
Jim Sabitus, Steve Miller, Tom ed Notre Dame's forward line to them credit for."
don't complain much either--finish the season 
Luetkehans, Tim Nauman, play a wide open game. Steve "Maybe so," the coach laughs when con­
with a pat on the back and a ''Thanks for 
Danny McCurrie, and Bill Wet­Miller, Tom Luetkehans and coming.'' But not much more. fronted with his miscalculation. ''Nothing those terer more than made up for sophomore Jim Stein triggered two do could surprise me.'' 



Ofcourse, sometimes there is bitterness; the ''I 
And that's why Hunter made both Nauman and their absence with one of the much of the offense with out­
don't get no respect!" syndrome that leads to
finest displays of soccer in standing work at their fullback McCurrie co-captains of this year's sq,u~d along
hard feelings and poor performance on the field. 
with fellow semors (and halfbacks) Jtm Sabitus
And why not? Physhologists say everyone has 
and Tom Crotty. 

an ego and nothing sttmulates an ego like a 
''I knew that this year would be a challenge for jockstrap ... 
-the squad because we took on tougher competi­But wait a minute. 
tion and learned a new system as well," explains_
Irish finish second 
What about the ones Hunter. "What I was looking for in my captains who don't get the ink were people who were not only talking leaders, by Michael Ortman scoring all three Notre Dame but also don't complain but leaders by example--whether it be on theSports Wn'ter goals. Freshman goalkeeper or let it sour their play field, in the locker room or in the classroom. 

Debbie Raehl had an outstand­or their attitude? The "Looking back on it now, I'd have to say I made The Irish women's field hoc­ing game in the cage, recording ones who don't lose a the best possible choices.''
key coach Astrid Hotvedt 11 saves. step or the desire to 

Both Nauman andproudly displayed the latest "It was a really close game," play just because they McCurrie came toaddition to Notre Dame's sports said Crowell. "We'd score, might not see their Notre Dame with solidshowcase yesterday afternoon. then they'd score, then we'd picture in the morning high school soccer cre­It was the second place plaque score. But nobody gave up. It dentials in their pocketfrom the IAIA W field hockey was probably one of the best What about the ones who believe the team is and both have beentournement, awarded to the games we've palyed all sea­really more important than the self? (Sorry, Mr. 
with the team since itIrish following a weekend split son." Freud.) 
became a varsity sportin West Lafayette, Ind. The Irish had defeated Mar­What about Tim Nauman and Dan McCurrie? 
in 1977. It was "get­''I'm really proud of the way ion during the regular season, Two of the Notre Dame Soccer team's four ting in at the groundrhe girls palyed," said Hotvedt. 2-1 in overtime. co-captains, Nauman and McCurrie play half­level" that has made
''They were really great all The semifinal win advanced back which is, sorry to say, the offenstve line of through the season and the Notre Dame to Saturday's final soccer. They don't usually score goals or make both players appreciate their involvement with tournament roo. But next against top-rated Taylor, a saves so, other than an occasional assist, their the team. year," she added, "it's first team which had beate'n the Irish names don't usually make the black and white "It was great when we started," remembers place.'' during the regular season, 3-1. tabloid that comes to the dining hall every McCurrie. "We worked to establish ourselves 
· The Irish reached the semifi­Once again it was Crowell afternoon. · and we were all great friends.'' nals by virtue of their number­doing all of Notre Dame's Now they'll tell you it doesn't bother them; that And that has made it all worthwhile. "Working two ranking among Indiana's scoring, but this time it just was publicity and pictures are not half as important together," McCurrie continues. "And everyone Division III schools. Notre not enough as Taylor captured as winning and losing and the friends you make depending on each other, both on the field and Dame finished the regular sea­the state crown with a narrow along the way. But saying it is one thing ... off. It's the same now with this team--especially son with a deceiving 5-10-1 2-1 win. Showing it is another, and McCurne and the seniors. mark, but most of the losses ''It was a big disappoint­Nauman make quite a case for their statements "Do you think any of us would ever let the came against Division I schools ment," said Crowell. "We when they take the field. other guys down?'' 
featuring scholarship players. played a rough game, but "You never get anythin~ less than 100 percent Nauman, sitting next to him on the van 
In Fnday's semtfinals, the Taylor's always been tough from Danny and Tim,'' R1ch Hunter will tell you. returning from Ohio State, answers his question. Irish squeaked past Marion, against us. But we'll be back Then you watch them play and you wonder if "No way," he emphasizes. '.'We may not get 3-2, with junior Pat Crowell next year.'' Hunter wasn't just a little bit mistaken. Because (continued on page 11] 

l ~~------------------------------~--'---------------------~ 





