, , , Candidates respond-page 9 

Candidates cotntnent on platfortns at forutn 
by Mike Shields Senior StaffReporter 
Candidates for the positions of Student Body president and vice president commented on their platforms and fielded questions from an audience of 12 people at a forum held last night in Walsh Hall. 
The candidates voiced their opinions on the role the SBP should play, and explained how their administrations would be run. 
Bill Roche, current Student Union director and a SBP candidate, empahsized his administrative experience, but said he was opposed to a "traditional" label being used to describe his ticket. 
"We've been working on campus issues with the Administration and the Board of Trustees," he said. "Experience is very valuable. It's not<"nough to talk about problems. You have to know how to deal with them." 
He stressed the need for specificity in the candidates' platforms and 
listed several issues he said he would like addressed. 
These included the hiring and tenuring of faculty, the appointment of a full-time off-campus housing director, University-backed urban renewal, off-campus security, construction of a new dorm, and the development of more social space on campus. . . . 
Roche said he hopes that the new dorm would be butlt smular to Keenan and Stanford, but would have men and women living in opposite wings. 
Dan Portman, saying he is "tired of playing the political game," announced a new direction in his campaign stressing the need for a sense of humor in the candidates and their campaigns. He also announced a new, obscene slogan emphasizing the humorous aspect of his ticker. • 
"Humor and effectiveness are not mutually exclusive," he said. He called Notre Dame students' attitude "the most conservative, dull, apathetic attitude I ever hope to come across." 
Portman downplaycd his lack of experience, saying that "a pers_on with charisma would get more support than someone concerned with techni<.:al dungs. You have to get the students to rally behing you by 
[continued on page 11) 

Parents Weekend concludes successfully 

by john Hogan 
Mike Kenny, chairman of the rwenty-seventh annual Junior Parents' Weekend, termed the weekend a success, saying, ''The concensus seems to be that 
Junior Parents' Weekend gets 
better each year, and that this 
was the best one yet." 
1l1e weekend's festivities were kicked off by a dance held Friday night at the ACC concourse. 
'The concensus seems 
to be th.at ]PW 
gets bettereachyear.' 
According to Kenny, approxi­mately 1850 people attended the dance. Saturday's events in­cluded various workshops in the afternoon and a dinner m Stepan Center, at which University Pres­ident Fr. Theodore Hesburgh addressed the students and the parents. A special mass dedi­cated to the Junior Oass in Sacred Heart .P.receded the dinner. Dr. Emil T. Hoffinan, dean of Freshmen Year, spoke to a breakfast group of 1900 at yesterday's closing ceremonies. 
"We received many compli­ments at each of the events that were held, from both parents and students. We were also pleased to see excellent participation in all events," Kenney said. 
Kenney explained that the purpose of the weekend is to provide a chance to bring the Notre Dame family into contact with the junior parent family, and to honor the parents, giving them some idea of what life at Notre Dame is really like. 
"I feel that we were successful because of the hard work and caring attitude of all involved,'' Kenney said. "We would like to give special thanks to Frs. John Gerber and John Fitzgerald for a tremendous mass, to Fr. Hesburgh for speaking at Satur­day's ainner, and to Dean Hoffman for his thoughts at the breakfast. A special word of thanks to all juniors involved and especially the 29 members of the junior parent conunittee." 

"This has been an unfor­~etable experience for all the 1uniors and their families to share m,'' Kenney concluded. 
~ 

BANKOK, Thailand (AP) ­well-informed Chinese sources in Peking predict China's invasion force in Vietnam will launch its biggest offensive within several days, Japan's Kyodo news ser­vice reported Monday in a dis­patch from the Chinese capital. 
It quoted the sources as saying China's "punitive action" will reach its critical stage this week, with the rwin goals of destroying at least one Vietnamese army division and Vietnam's military bases near the border, including artillery positions. 
Kyodo also reported that Peking Radio said Chinese trops had engaged Vietnamese army regulars in hand-to-hand fighting near Dong Dang, a village three miles inside Vietnam. Most reports from China and Vietnam have indic.ated Vietnamese mil­itias were doing most of the fighting, with the Hanoi govern­ment not committing its regular army units. 
The Peking broadcast said that after a day of heavy fighting "a Chinese batallion overran five hilltop positions" near Dong Dang, "destroyed a maze of enemy dugouts and repulsed repeated attacks mounted by the enemy from below,'' according to Kyodo. It said the broadcast gave no casualty figures and didn't say when the fighting occurred. 
Vietnam said yesterday its counter-attacking trOOps killed almost 4,000 Chinese in weekend battles all along the border, and a total of 16,000 since the invasion began Feb. 17. But China was pouring in reinforce­ments, Hanoi radio said. 
At U.N. headquarters in New York, Vietnamese and Cambod­ian delegates exchanged bitter charges Saturday at the Security Council's debate on the invasions of both Cambodia and Vietnam. The council passed no resolutions · and after several hours of debate yesterday, adjourned until to­morrow. 
The supporters of the ousted China-backed Cambodian regime of Premier Pol Pot claimed 
. yesterday to have "put out of action" more than 1,000 Viet­namese soldiers last week along three national highways and near provincial capitals. It said the Vietnamese left 670 bodies "on the battlefields.'' .[continued on page 2] 

Unknown assailants attack NDstudent 
byTim]oyce StaffReporter 

A Notre Dame student was mugged early yesterday mornin~ while walking between Nickies and The Goose's Nest. The victim was not injured seriously, but his wallet was taken. 
Paul Bauersfeld, a sophomore BI.:Siness major from Allison Park, Pennsylvania, had just left Nickies' and was en route to Goose's Nest when the incident occurred at approximately 1:30 
a.m. "I don't remember it at all. The last thin~ I remember was leaving Nickies' ," Bauersfeld said. 
"I was with a group of friends earlier that night at Goose's and then I decided to S?to Nickie's. I was alone, and didn't stay long. 
When I left I was still alone artd started back to Goose's," Bauersfeld related. 
After that, Bauersfeld doesn't remember anything. ''I must have gotten clubbed on the head with a bottle, because when eventually got to Goose's I had a lwnp on the back of my head and 
there  was  broken glass  on  my  
back,'' he commented.·  
According to  friends,  it took  
Bauersfeld  about  20  to  30  

minutes to make the trip between the bars. Upon arrival, he was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital, where X-rays were taken. Bauersfeld spent the night in the infirmary, and was released. 
No repon was filed by Bauers­feld regilrding the incident. ''All that was taken was a couple of 
~-my IDs,'' Bauirsfeld 


News in brief 

Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 2 
Sen. Stennis callsfor return 

... China
ofmilitary draft, otherflop 
WASHINGTON (.AP)'·Sen. ] ohn C. Stennis, 0-Miss., yesterday called for a rerum to the mih~ draft, saying the all-volunteer concept has not worked and ''it IS weakening our defenses.'' In an interview published yesterday in U.S. News & World Report magazine, Stennis said financial incentives have not brought the needed number ofvolunteers into the service. ''Higher pay and benefits won't do the job," Stennis said. "We've tried it for years and it won't work. Paying a man a lot of money doesn't guarantee that he'll have the ability, take the discipline-or that he won't simply walk away from his duty." 

[continued from page 1] · In Moscow, the official Soviet press stepped up its accusations that the United States was en­co~ng China in its war agat.nst Vietnam. But there was a report Presi­deQt Carter was applying new pressure on the Chinese to end the war. British Prime Minister 
than the Chinese. 
The Hanoi broadcast said Viet­namese troops mounted counter­attacks in Tan Lang village of Lai Chau province, northwest of Hanoi; Thank Thuy village in Ha Tuyenb province, north of the capital, and Tong Dang district of Lang Son province to the north­east. A counter-attack also was sources have said 17 Chinese diVisions, about 225,000 men had been identified along the border and that ,Probably six or seven of these divisions were in Vietnam. This would put Chin ese combat strength in Vietnam at around 75,000 men, higher if Vietnam's claims of more recent Chinese reinforcements are true. 

Friends ,foes ofequal rights may rekindle oldbattle 
INDIANAPOUS (.AP)!-Friends and foes of the Equal Rights Amendment will have a chance to rekindle an olcf battle this week when the House]udiciary Cormnittee considers a proposal to nullify Indiana's two-year-old ratification of the ERA. The resolution, which has already passed the Senate, calls for the ap{>roval to become void on March 22 -the original deadline for ratification • unless the amendment is part of the U.S. Constitution by then. Sen. Joan Gubbins, R-Indianapolis, who sponsored· the resolution, said it was to protest the 39-month eXtension for ERA ratification approved by Congress last year. 
In radiationfind, officials plan decontamination 
DENVER (AP) -Health officials are drawing up plans for decontaminanon of sites in the Denver area where potentially hazardous levels of gamma radiation have been deteCted. The Colorado Departrrient of Health said Friday that one Denver brick and rile firm must tear down or move two buildings to · allow removal of a radioactive dump abandoned more than 40 years ago. Specialists continued to check possible dump sites in the Denver aiea Friday, and found two more with excess radiation. Jim Montgomery, Health Department official, said health officials have found no immediate public health hazard from any of the . dump sites but are studying possible contamination of private drinking water supplies. 
Pontiffkeepspromise to a-distractedbridalparty 
V~TICAN ~ (AP)I-The nervous groom forgot to kneel and the distracted bnde sn~ed ,glan~es at her beaming parents, but Pope John Paul If didn t .rruss a chance to buss the bride yestc;rday as th~ Roman_ sun shone ~r:i_ghdy on the Polish pontiff's first Italian wedding. The pontiff kept the promise he made last month to Vittori Ianni, a 22-year-old sales clerk in a Rome souvenir shop, and officiated at her wedding to 24-year-old Mario Maltese. 


Weather 
Partly cloudy and cold today. Highs in the upper 20s. Clear and 
cold tonight. Lows in the low teens. Mostly sunny and warmer 
tomorrow with highs in the mid 30s. 

James Callaghan, after a tele­phone call from Carter, was reponed to have ordered a slow­down of talks for the sale of warplanes to Pekin_g. 
The voice of Vtetnam radio, monitored here, said the Viet­namese had destroyed 160 Chinese tanks in fighting during the weekend. 
The battle reports and Chinese casualty rolls could not be inde­pendendy verified, and some analy8ts in Bangkok said they appeared exaggerated. China has issued no casualy repons, but the analysts here say Viet­nam has suffered greater losses 
FTheObserver_ 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: jim 

Rudd  
Copy  Reader:  Debbie  
Dahrling  
Editorial  Layout:  Margie  
Brassil  
Features  Layout:  Greg  
Hedges  

Sports Layout: Ray 0 'Brien Typists: Kim Convey, Pete McFadden, Bill Swift, Katie Brehl Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey Day· Editor: Kate Kilk.usk.ie Ad Layout: joe Murphy Photographer: Mike Bigley 
Tile Observer {USPS 59& 920\ i$ published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year {$10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the. Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

reponed along Highway-4, which The Soviet Army newsJ>aper more or less parallels the Viet­Red Star yesterday accusea the nam-China border· in Cao Bang United States of encouraging and Lang Son provinces. China to step U,P actions in 
The war thus far has been Vietnam "by strivmg to justify" limited to the border areas of the invasion of Vietnam as a northern Vietnam. Intelligence retaliation for the earlier Viet specialists in Washington say the namese attack on Cambodia. Chinese have penetrated possibly The Carter administration says up to 20 miles into Vietnam in it deplores both invasions. The places but the average depth is Soviets say that by linking the estimated at 12 n'li1es to -15 miles. two Washington IS trying to 
Washington intelligence convince the world 

Black Cultural Arts Festival begins with gospel music 

Hesburgh urged the audience to 
by Donna Teevan remember that ''gospel music 
was born in despair, but rises 
The 1979 Notre Dame Black today in pride and freedom.'' He Cultural Ans Festival began last stated that it "was appropriate to night . in the Library Auditorium begin the festival with what is with a two-and-one-half-hour central to black culture." program of gospel music entitled Each choir, consisting of 8 to "Gospel Soul on Sunday." Nine 25 members of various ages, South Bend church choirs pre­presented two or three songs. sented the music to an audience The audience responded enthus­of more than 100. iastically by clapping and singing 
The purpose of last night's along with many of the up-beat program was ''to foster many songs. lasting relations between the According to Atkins, this is the black students of Notre Dame first time in its four year exist­and the black commuruty of ence that the festival has begun South Bend,'' according to co­with a gospel program. This chairpersons Dale Atkins and year's program began this way Kevin Green. Atkins pointed out because of the successful that "many black students at appearance of a gospel choir at Notre Dame are not Catholic and an event in last year's festival, attend these churches or are Atkins noted. looking for a church of their Atkins was pleased with last denomination.'' night's turnout and anticipates 
The invocation was delivered more participation in this year's by University President Fr. festival rhan in previous years Theodore Hesburgh who com­because of the support of mended the educational value of Hesburgh and student govern­the festival in his opening re­ment, as well as the appearance marks. of nationally known. track star 
He also praised gospel music Wilma Rudolph ·and NAACp as "a truly American contribu­executive director Benjamin tion to the music of the world." Hooks. 

monday, february 26, 1979 
10-5 pm &·8-11 pm--BAKE SALE, s~nsored by nd-smc right to life, LA FORTUNE LOBBY & UB PIT 
5:30J>m--MEETING, french club, FAaJL1Y DINING ROOM, sourn DINING HAll 
• 
7 ~m--MEETING~ _h!c~e club, new members wdcome, LA FOR1UNE BASEMENT 
7 pm--MEETING, inpirg, LA FORTIJNE BAllROOM 
7 pm--BLACK aJLTIJRAL ARTS FESTIVAL, wilma rudolf, winner of three olympic gold medals in 1960, UB. AUD. 
7:30 pm--F1LM.~...'.J:ed dese{t/' sponsored by spdr 313 film 
senes, UTTIE 1nnA1RE-SMC 
7:30 pm--~rcPHeP9rtS: "into the mouths of babes," nestle boycott, HA1~-HEALY AUD. 
8 pm--BASKETBALL, nd vs east carolina, ACC 
~ pm--NAJ1qNAL 1HEA1RE qF TilE DEAF, "volpone," ben JOhnson, qwte early one morrung," dylan thomas, sponsored by cul~al arts comm., WASH. HAIL 
8 pm--~ECTURE, "psychological utterances," norman maJcolm, cornell u., GALVIN AUD. 

NESTLE INFANT FORMULA BOYCOTT ENDORSERS (partial list) 
Program on lntemat'l Nutrition, 

INDIVIDUALS Dr. Doris Calloway, Chairwoman Department ofNutrition, Univ. of  CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS Archtiioces (Roman Catholic) or  OTHER ORGANIZA TtONS  
California, Berkdey  Denver, New Orleans, St.  Paul American  Medical  Student  
Cesar Chavez, President,  Minneapolis and San Francisco  Association  
United Farmworkers  Dioceses (RQ of Rochester, NY  Bread for the World  
Dick Gari?., U.S. Senator, Iowa  and Albany NY•  D ·emocrahc  R · f Minn'tZrftes o esota  
Dr.  Allan Jackson,  Tropical  Dominican Sisters  and Washington St .  
Metabolism Research Unit, Kingston, Jamaica  Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers  National Organization of Women  
Dr. Derrick.] e/liffe, Head of Division of Popufation,  National Council of Churches Lutheran Student Movement  OXFAM-America  
Family and Public Health,  Presbyterian Church in the U.s. Peace  Corps  Volunteers  of  
Ua.A School of Public Health  Cameroon  
Frances Moore Lappe, Author of Diet for a Small Planet and Food First I •  United Church of Christ United Methodist Chuch (twelve conferences)  UnitedFarm Workers ofAmerica [UFW]  
Dr. Michael Latham, Director,  COLLEGES  

Cornell University Univ. of Penn food service 
Vote 

Colorado College students 
Ralph Nader 

Grinnel College students 
to Boycott Nestl~
Dr. Benjamin Spack 

Geneseo College students Student Unions of San ] ose St. and UC-Berkeley Wellesley College food service 
this Tuesday 

The Observer ·Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 3 


Fort Wayne teen dies of meningitis 
fects the body's organs. He said 

FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP) the germs of that particular strain Allen County health officials are of bacteria are transmitted by investigating the death of a Fort secretions from the nose and Wayne teen-ager who contracted throat. a form of merungitis bacteria, the Ahlbrand said the death here is coroner said. not connected with the death 
County Coroner Roland Thursday of a University of Notre Ahlbrand said yesterday that a Dame student. Andrew Sowder, 14-year-old girl died in Park:view 21, ofldalou, TX, died in St. Memorial Hospital here Sarurday Joseph's Hospital in South Bend of Menningiococcemia, a bac­of a rare form of meningitis, terial infection, which ''is not hospital officials said. thought to be a highly contagious Ahlbrand said health officials disease.'' had traced the girl's activities 
Health officials declined to during the 48 hours prior to her identify the girl, who was hos­death and had contacted persons pitalized Sarurdax after com­who had close contact with her. plaining of flu-like symptoms Oliver Kaiser, assistant health Friday. commissioner for Allen County, 
''There is no need for alarm. said, "There is no cause for All bases are covered,'' said alarm in the community about Ahlbrand. this incident. All precautions 
The coroner said the infection have been taken. There is no Aftera hard winter, andstill more to come, the resident ducks gladly unburdened tht~<; passer·by of enters the bloodstream and af-threat of an outbreak.'' any amount offood he had to spare. [photo by the Dome) 


The College Bowl finalists were pickedlast week to represent Notre Dame. [left to nght] Susan Spzllman, Dan Mevlema, Ed Bylina, Paul Weitman, Tomas Quinn. [photo by Mike Bzgley 
~~--~--~--.---~--~--~---.1 

Positions on the 1979-80

Exceeding expectations 

Managers claim success OBSERVER 
by Andy Segovia only one of three sales over Friday," Maurath said. NOW OPEN StaffReporter $300," Clayton said. · In addition, the initial locale of According to Clayton, the al­the sale was chan~ed due to 
Last week's Student Union bums will be available for pickup scheduled job intervtews in the record sale was an overwhelming the week of March 5. "We hope LaFortune ballroom. ''The contact Rosemary at 7471 success, according to managers to have the individual orders change to the first floor turned Jim Clayton and Tom Maurath. packaged and sorted so that the out to be beneficial since many and submit astatement on the position
' 'The sale exceeded all of our pickup process will be greatly people just passing by began to expectations," they commented. participate in the sale," Clayton
The managers reponed that said. that you are interested in 
$21 ,086.40 worth of albums were "$21,086.40 When asked about furure bought involving 988 orders and sales, the managers commented 5,243 albums. "The average that nothing definite had been deadline for applications 3:00pm Fri ..,March 2
worth of albums

order was approximately $21," decided, yet ''it is somethin~ that the mana~ers stated. will defirutely be looked at.' The 
According to the managers, were bought'' managers further stated that the the initi::~l turnout was low but procedure would be changed in increased as the week progressed facilitated,'' he said. case of a furure sale in order to with a phenomenal rurnout on the The sale, however, did face alleviate the great amount of last day. "Over 40 percent of the some difficulties. The managers work involved. total sales occurred on Friday," explained that the biggest proo­Clayton and Maurath ex­they said. lem involved missing catalogs. pressed their appreciation of the 
Friday was also marked by the "We started the sale with 30 student turnout, saying, "We are largest single order of the week, catalogs and ended with only 12 glad to serve the students in any 64 albums for $350. "This was causing unnecessary waiting on way." 


The Observer Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 4 
To see total eclipse
NOW

READ THIS 
Can a product which requires 

Travelers n1ob sn1all towns

READ THIS
clean water, good sanitation, 
adequate family income and a literate parent to follow printed instructions be properly and safe­ly used in areas where water is contaminated, sewage runs in the streets, poverty is severe and illiteracy _is high?... . When econorruc 10cennves are 10 con­flict with public health require­ments how shall that conflict be resolved? Is it enough to establish a code for product use and disown or turn away from the realities of product use?" 
Senator Edward Kennedy Chairperson US Senate Hearings May 23, 1978. 
see CBS Reports: 'Into the Mouths of 
Babes' (20 min.) 
7:30 tonight Hayes-Healy Aud. 
~n'!edy: "And my final_ ques­tlOn IS, ...what do ro':l _feel IS yow corporate respons1bduy to f10d out the ~xtent of ~he use of YO':lf 
P.roduct 10 those circumstances 10
the developing part ofthe world? Do you feel that you have any responsibility?'' 
Ballarin: "We cannot have that responsibility, sir .... " 
Kennedy_: ''You cannot have that responsibility?'' 
Ballarin: "No, .... " 
Sen. Kennedy and Mr. Ballarin of Nestle­Brazil, SHR., * p. 131. 
and vote YES to boycott Nestle on the Infant Formula Referendum tomorrow 

' SEATTIE (AP)-Thousands of 
camera-and-telescope-toting 
travelers mobbed small towns of 
the Pacific Northwest over the 
· f · · 

weekend 10 hop~s o ghmps10g 
~~ last . total ecl1pse of _the Sll:fi 
VISible 10 North Amenca this 
century. 
Even the possibil!W that bad 

weather might clou<f their view 
today hardly dampened the fes­
tive, holiday mood. 
A total solar eclipse occurs 

when the moon swings between 
the sun and earth, briefly casting 
its shadow over a narrow path. 
Automatic street lights may blink 
on, chickens tend to roost, and 
cattle low and prepare to lay 
down, all victims of a cosmic 
joke, mid-day dusk. 
Communities that rarely get 

tourists were making money from 
people gathering to watch a few 
seconds of darkness. Sight-seers 
booked up motels and claimed 
sleeping space on gymnasium 
floors weeks ago. 
The 175-mile-wide moon shad­ow will take about 1 1 I2 hours to fall across North America, begin­ning at 8: 13 a.m. PST near Portland and dissolving over Greenland. North America won't see another until the year 2017. 
Eclipse-chasers flocked to Goldendale, Walla Walla and Pasco, WA. Both Helena and Lewiston, MT, claimed the title "Eclipse Capital of the World." 
Vendors in Goldendale, which saw another total eclipse in 1918, were better prepared this time and hawked hats, buttons and $6 T-shirts reading, "Biggest Coverup in 70 Years! " 
Goldendale's 3,200 population was expected to swell by at least 5,000. 
Goldendale has a special at­traction -the only public observa­tory in the "path of totality." With $5,000, NBC.-1V outbid CBS for use of its 24 1/2-inch telescope. In addition, viewing spots were ren~ed to about 450 

EARN OVER$650AMONTH 
RIGHT THROUGH YOUR 





YEAR. 
If you're a junior or senior majoring in sciences like math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­Collegiate Program ( NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll get an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost · thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. 
It isn't easy. There ate fewer than 400 openings and only one of every ~ix applicants will be selected. But ifyou·make it, you'll have unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt­edged qualifications for jobs both in the Navy and out. 
Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus, or contact your Navy representative at 800-841-8000, or send in the coupon. The NUPOC-C Program. Not only can it help you complete 
• 
college. It can be the start of an exciting career. 
I 
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 8637,......---------..,--..I 
INFORMATION CENTERI P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y.10803 I Yes, I'd like more informagon on II the NUPOC·C Program ( jDO). 
I Name II I 
First tPlea!M:'Pnntl . l.a•t 
Address 

I c~ I 
Sta Zip•---­1 Age tCollege/University II I
:!:Graduation Date •Grade Point 

I .AMajor/Minor I 
PhoneNumberc-~~------­

.______________..
I CNP 2/8 •A~•c""'' I 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FASI. 
people on the observatory hill a mile north of town, said Hoagie Nielson, a member of the obser­vatory board of directors. 
At Walla Walla, where the chance of cloud-free viewing was only 14 percent, the Chamber of Commerce received queries about lodging from as far away as California and St. Paul, MN. 
Career Center to offer Job Readiness 
The Women's Career Center will offer its ] ob Readiness and Assertiveness Training programs beginning Tuesday at the Y.W.C.A., 802 North Lafayette Blvd., South Bend. 
Job Readiness, a 12-hour group. counseling program, will be offered Tuesday, Feb. 27 to March 20, from 7-10 p.m., and on March 5,6, 7,8 and 9 from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. 
The four three-hour sessions will deal with interest and skills assessment, community re­\owces facilitate the job search, resume writing, interview tech­niques, and professionalism. 
Assertiveness Training will be offered on Tuesday, Feb. 27 through March 27, 2-4-p.m. and on March 1 to March 29 from 7-9 p.m. 

SMCtohave elections forpositions 
Elections for Saint -Mary's Student Body President, Vice President of Student Affairs and Vice President of Academic Affairs will be held on March 12. All prospective candidates must run on a ticket. 
Nominations open Monday, Feb. 26 rod close Sunday, March 
4. Campaign platforms are due Sunday, March 4 by 12 midnight. 
The campaign period begins March 4 at 12 midnight and ends Sunday March 11 at midnight. 
The polls will open on Monday, March 12 in LeMans lobby from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. and in the dining_ hall from 5 p.m.-6 p.m. If necessary, a run-off election will be held Wednesday, March 14. 
Additional quesnons should be directed to Noreen Bracken (5419) or Cari Trousdal~(5307). 
Fr. Hesburgh becomespart ofnewforum 
Fe. 1heodore M. Hesburgh, University president, bas become a member of the newly formed Business-Higher Education Foflli:D spons<!redby ~he American Council on Education (ACE). 
The intent, . according to Hesburgh, is to seek improved communication, understanding and support between the two sectors and to combine their resources to address national concerns. 

ies of Khuzestan province are
SAINT MARY'S PLACEMENT CENIER 
members of revolutionary worker committees established by
Mar. 7 (Wed.) Firestone Sales/ Management Business Khomeini.
Mar. 8 (Thurs.) National Bank of Detroit Branch Bank Officer Business 
M~agers _left over from the prev1ous reglffie are careful 
The Observer Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 5 

When one speaks ofcompeh.tion at ND, he should be referring to more than just studies and sports. [photo by Mike Bzgley] 

Radical oil workers demand role in distribution, pricing 
ABADAN, Iran (AP)-Iran's oil fur a substantial boost in oil industry, o:tce the world's No.2 prices above the level set by the supplier, is in the hands of Organization of Petroleum radical workers who demand a Exponing Countries. If their major role in deciding who sets demands are ignored, they said, their product and at what pnce. many are prepared to resume the 
Marxists are actively recruiting strike and shut off the flow of oil. among them, although they Although most workers claim remain a minority. to be devout Moslem followers of 
Labor leaders who organized Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini 
-the general strike that halted oil and disavow atheistic expons and brought the Iranian rommunism, they espouse social economy to its knees say they are and political views very close to willing to allow oil to be sold to Marxism. anyone except Israel and South "We do not think we have Mrica once they receive orders completely achieved the from the provisional government oojectives of the revolution," of Prime Minister Mehdi satd Habib Khabiri, a member of Bazargan. · Abadan's oil worker committee. Deputy Prime Minister Amir "Only the elementary stages Entezam said the new govern­have been completed. For exam­ment hopes to resume selling oil ple, the government is a transi­abroad in about twO weeks. tional one and has not yet 
But in interviews with the announced its policies regarding Associated Press, workers made redistribution of incomes and clear they expect the government labor laws. If the former class to heed their demands -among order is to remain in this country, them redistribution of income, clashes will be more widespread and end to foreign control of the and bloodier." industry and the right to reject Nominally the government­management appointees. owned Nanonal Iranian Oil Co. 
They also expect Iran to press controls the industry, but the real masters of the fields and refiner­
------~---~---------­

Student(;ovennnaent completes petitions 
Mter a week of gatherin~ petition signatures, the proposal for an amendment to give under­graduate off-campus students representation in the Student Government has been finalized, according to Leslie Melander, Off-Campus commissioner. 
If passed by a majority vote in tomorrow's election, the amend­ment, the first to the Student Government Constitution, will go into effect immediately. 
John Fitzpatrick, Off-Campus coordinator, and Melander ctted three primary reasons why the present Student Government Constitution should be amended. 
First, off-campus students are a permanent part of the Univer­sity community; second, the present Constitution excludes the representation of off-campus students; third, the Constitution does not provide the means by which off-campus students can officially voice their concerns. 
Anicle I of the amendment describes the powers and duties of a new student government officer and an Off-Campus Coun­
cil. The officer and the council will be instrumental in translat­ing the concerns of off-campus students into effective policy. 
The Off-Campus commissioner will be elected by a majority vote of off-campus students and will serve a one-year term. 
The commissioner will chair the Off-Campus Council and will also be a full votin~ member of the Board of CofllJlU6sioners. 
In addition, the commissioner will be responsible for the opera­tion and maintenance of facilities for off-campus students, which are sponsored by the Off-Campus Council, and will hav<" the power to appoint special committees. 
The council, composed of five to ten undergtaduate students, will be governed by its own by-laws in the same way as the Hall Presidenrs· Council or the Judicial Counctl. 
Anicle II deals with the imple­mentation of this amendment. The first Off-Campus commis­sioner will be appointed by a special committee consisting of the Student Body president, the Student Body president-elect, the director of Student Activities, the Off-Campus coordinator, who will serve as chairman. Two off­campus students selected by the chairman, also will be on the committee. 
The first acting off-c~pus commtSstoner will appomt a special committee to serve as the first off-campus council in order to draft and adopt by-laws con­cerning its operation and the selection and removal of its me.qtbers by Oct. 1, 1979. 
At this ume, the first council will be disolved and a new council established according tq the by-laws. 
However, a general off-campus election regulated by the Board of Commissioners will take place before Apri~ 1! 1980, to install the next corrurussmner. 
A copY. of the amendment will be available at the Student Government Office in LaFonune for those who wish to review the details. 
O'Meara 
•


appotnts Castellino 
Prof. Francis ] . Castellino, a memberofNotre Dame's Depart­ment of Chemistry since 1970, has been appointed its chairman, as announced by Pr~f. Timothy O'Meara, U':liversity provost. 
The appotntment IS effective next Sept. 1, 1979, when Castel­lino will succeed Prof. ] eremiah 
P. Freeman, who will return to full-time teaching and research. 

The Student Union ************************** ************************** Cultural Arts Commission Proudly Presents The Tony Award Winning National Theatre of the Deaf in 'Vol pone' and Dylan Thomas' 'Quite Eatly One ffiotnlng' Monday, Feb. 26 Spm Washington Hall Admission $1.00 tickets now available in the Student Union Ticket Office 



audio 

AUDIO SPECIAliSTS, 401 N. MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN. 46601. PHONE: 234-5001. 
INTEGRATED STEREO AMPLIFIER 

SON"Y;I ~WWTI© TA-F6B 
Features 
• 
100 watts per channel. m1n1mum RMS at 8 ohms I rom 20Hz to 20kHz Wllh no more than 0 03% Total HarmoniC DistortJon 

• 
Sony Pulse locked Power Supply. lor the utmost 1n voltage stability, mJnJmaiJnteractJon between channels. low hum and no1se, and excellent response w1th all types ol mus1cal s1gnals. espec1ally h1gh level trans1ents 

• 
High-performance. buJit-Jn head amplifier us1ng exclUSive Sony lEC trans1stors for low-outpul. mov1ng·COJI phor~o cartfldges-no external sJgnal-boostJng dev1ces needed 

• 
Tape monJtoridubb1ng facJIJtJes for 2 decks. w1th prqvJSJOn for listen1ng to all program sources wh1le dubb1ng 

•large 
powe. meters for accurate power-oui[J.ul momtoflng 


TOday our display mxlel of mls SONY CD111MJ1181'1t, 

J?e. Audio Specialists is runnir.g it~ annual De_mo Dtt;tch /!.uch"on Sale. The way it work:.. IS suruple: On F~bruary 10 all demos m our Audio & V1deo departments were marked at 10% off suggested hst. Every business day the price will drop l% per day until a component is sold. Only one of each item will be sold at the sale price. The sale ends February 28th when everything remaining will be 25% off 
~ressure is on! Buy early.and get the best selection or gamble and wait for even biggerde. s. . 
AI~ tape p:zces are discounted by the same amounts dun·ng the sale and anyone bnnging in thzs ad will.get another 2% offall prices. 
Come in and Save I I 

The Observer Monday, February 26, 1979 ""page 6 
Indiana Public Interest Research 
l• / Ri·uer City Records & ' "i 

Group receives praise fron1 Carter
, Celebration Productions Present' 
. THE 



OUTLAWS 
IN CONCERT 
special guest Wireless Frida_y March 2 • 8:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium 
Advance Tickets $8.00/7.00 now on sale at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 N. 3 miles north of campus 
and at the Morris Civic Box " call 277-4242 for furthur information • 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group (InPIRG) last week received the praise of President Carter along with 24 PIRGs across the nation. 
In a message sent to an annual meeting of PIRGs in Hartford,cr' the president congratulated the PIRGs for their ''considerable civic accomplishments.'' 
"I am happy to say that as governor of Georgia, I was an early supponer ofthe PIRG in my home state," Carter said. 
He cited consumer rights, en­vironmental protection, govern­mental responsibility, and social justice as specific areas where that PIRG and others have "im­proved the quality of life for many citizens.'' 
lnPIRG, like its countetparts in other states, is a student-funded, student-controlled citizen action ~roup located on four campuses ill Indiana. The group was started by students in 1972 as a way in which they could get involved in numerous areas of social concern. 
''Academic education alone 
does not provide the training for 
good citizenship that is so neces­
sary to our country's future," 
Carter told the student PIRG 
representatives in his message. 
"Because students elect, by 
majority vote, to fund the organi­
zation and decide its policies and 
priorities themselves, PIRGs ex­
emplify the democratic principles 
which have made Amencan insti­
tutions strong," he said. 

Through their work, Carter 
credited the PIRGs with provi­
ing ''us with a vital lesson ill the 
meaning of useful r.ublic partici­
pation in national life." 

Jim Jones, a student at Notre 
Dame and an InPIRG Steering 
Committee member, said he was 
delighted with the president's 
remarks. "It shows us that 
students working hard in their 
respective states can have an 
impact felt all the way to the 
top," he said. · Jones explained that while the 
various state PIRGs are autono­
mous, they have set up a national 
E~INEEPJ~ &CQWlUTER SCIENCE MA.JC)RS 
Ifyou're about to graduate with an engi­neering or computer science degree, we'd like to talk to you about your future. 
Will it be in commercial jetliners? We're building two new planes -the 767 and 757. While the orders for 727s, 737s and 747s keep coming from all over the world. 
Perhaps you'd like to get_into the aero­space field, where we have more projects going than you can shake a calculator at. 
Or maybe you'll help us provide computer services to over 2, 000 cli­ents, including government, private industry, commercial airplanes and aerospace. 
. Whatever path you take at Boeing, you'll enjoy living in Seattle.-one of Ameri­ca's most beautiful cities. 
DOEN:.Wl.l. DE: Ql CAMPUS SOON. Boeing will be here within the next two weeks. So sign up for your interview today in the Placement Office. Then we can tell you in person about all the opportunities you'll have to grow with Boeing. Ifthis time is inconvenient for you, just write us: The Boeing Company, P.O. Box3707-VLO, Seattle, WA98124. An equal opportunity employer. 
IIIIEI~G 
GETIING PEOPLE TOGETHER 
organization to coordinate their efforst. It was at a governing council meeting of this National PIR.G·where the students receiv­ed the president's congratula­tions. 
Expressing a desire the PIRGs expand to other campuses in the country, President Carter said he hoped that "students, faculty, uruversity administrators, and all concerned citizens will continue to provide the suppon necessary to PIR.Gs." · 
InPIRGofND ~ plans meeting, 

Lukins to talk 
The Indiana Public Interest Re­search Group (InPIRG) of Notre Dame will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in room 2-D ofLaFonune. Topic of the meeting will be the presenta­tion of the InPIRG Petiuon to the Board of Trustees in May. Guest speaker will be Tom Lukins from Indiana University PIRG. 
Venezuela plans to raise price ofoil 
NEW YORK (AP)-Venezuela, the world's fourth-largest oil producer, has apparently decided to raise the price ofsome of its oil by 1 S percent, industry sources said yesterday. 
There was no official confirma­tion ofthe report, but A.D. Price, a spokesman for Asiatic Petrol­eum Co., which impons Venez­uelan oil into the United States, said, "We have heard reports that they would raise the price of fuel oil on March 1, and on past performances we would expect that to happen .... They've been raising it every month recently, and I wouldn't expect March to be any different." 
Henry E. Bergold, assistant secretary for international affairs at the Energy Department, said in Washington: •'It sounds reasonable, but we cenainly don't have any formal confrrma­tion.'' 
When oil exponers decide to raise prices, Bergold said, "they don't phone anybody up, they just start charging higher prices.'' 
The result, according to anal­ysts, could be a rise in the price of heating oil of at least S cents per gallon. Gasoline prices probably would not be affected, because the types of oil covered by the increases would be pri­marily those used for heating. 
The reponed increase, effec­tive March l, would raise the price of some Venezuelan oil by more than $2 a barrel to abuot $15.50 a barrel. The current Organization of Petroleum Ex· potting Countries price is $13. 3S a barrel. 
Venezuela's increase would reportedly affect mostly refilled heavy fuel oil -known as residual oil -which Venezuela exports mostly to the East Coast for use in home heating, electric plants and factories. 
---~­
The Observer 

NEW ORLEANS (AP) • striking police agreed yesterday to obey a coun order and pull pickets away garbage dumps and Sanitation ~parunent garages. City officials said they hope to have New Orleans cleaned up by the time Mardi Gras arrives tomorrow. 
"We just complied with the court order that the Fourth Circuit Coun ofAppeals gave us · a restraining order from picket­in~ the Sanitation ~partment,'' saJd Mitchell Ledet, a represen­tative of the Teamsters union, bargaining agent for the striking Police Association of Louisiana. 
Ledet said police pickets left the dumps and garages yesterday afternoon · about 17 hours after the appellate coun handed down the fJVe-day temporary restrain­ing order. 
The development came as union officials preF.I'ed to re­sume bargaining wtth city nego­tiators. 
At least one Sanitation ~part· ment employee confmned that police pickets had bttn mnoved and that most garbagcmen had returned to work ¥esterday. 
"We got quite a bit up this morning, and we anticipate all our crews in in the morning tomorrow,'' said the employee, who did not give her name. 
She said the French Quarter, the heart of the boisterous Mardi Gras revelry, was substantially cleaned up yesterday morning. 
Garbage had piled up since Thursday, when police started picketing the Sanitation Depart· ment facilities. Some garb~e· men crossed/icket lines durmg the weeken after Sanitation Department Director Patrick Koloski, who had told them to stay home on Friday, ordered them back on the job. 
The state appeals coun order· ed police to stop picketing at the garbage dumps and garages Saturday night, but the lines apparently remained up until yesterday afternoon. 
The walkout began Feb. 16. 
A group of citizens took out an ad in the Times-Pi&ay11ne yester­day asking residents to take garbage to the dumps them· selves. 
And circulators passed out in the French Quarter asked people to dump garbage at the Team­sters union haJJ -a move Handelman said the city did not support. 
About 500 National Guards­men and 150 state troOpers have been in the city riding the 300 police officers still on duty. 
Philosophy lecture series continues 
The Notre Dame Dq>artment of-Philosophy's Perspective l...ectures in Philosophy series continues this week wtth three lectures by Professor Norman Malcolm ofComdl University. 
Malcolm, the third lecturer in the 1978-79 Perspective Suies on the Philosophy of Mind, will speak on "First Person Psycho­logical Utterances" tonight at 8 in the Biology Auditorium. 
"The Conc~t of Thinking" will be Malcolm s lecture topic on Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Biologx Auditorium. He will conclude his lectures on Friday at 
3:15 p.m. in the Library, Faculty Lounge with a talk on ' Wittgen­stein and Idealism. '' • 
Malcolm, currently a visiting professor at London University, 1s a member ofthe Sage School of Philosophy at Cornell. 
Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 7 
Concerning worldopinion 
Blumenthal warns China 
PEKING (AP) ·Treasury Sec­1with Chinese leaders since the border provocations. retary W. Michael Blumenthal invasion was launched Feb. 17, The Carter administration has bluntly warned China's leaders read ~cerp~ from a ~ent said Blumenthal's ttip does not yesterday that their invasion of ·speech m which Carter saJd the mean American approval of the Vietnam could rum world opinion ·llnited States opposes the Chin· invasion. But the Soviet news against them, block progress in 1ese invasion and the earlier agency Tass charged yesterday U.S.-Chinese relations and per­invasion of Cambodia by Viet· that it is "clearly encouraging" haps ignite a wider war. nam. Chinese aggression. 
His Chinese hosts told the Blumenthal's Chinese coun­Blllliletlthal, . who arrived American envoy their war against terpart, Finance Minister Chang Saturday for the nine-day official Hanoi is ''fully justified.'' Ching-fu, said in his toast that visit, will preside over the official 
' Blumenthal had said he was . China was "fully justified" in opening of the U.S. Embassy bringing with him a message invading Vietnam and indicated here Thursday and will initiate from President Carter to the the Chinese forces will stay until trade talks with the Chinese. Chinese leadership. He deliv­the Vietnamese agree to a confer­One subject he will cover is ered it in a banquet toast in the ence to settle the dispute. U.S. claims against China, total­Great Hall of the People. Vietnam rejected an earlier pro­ing $138 million, for American­
"Our bilateral relations, par­posal for negotiations. owned assets seized by the ticularly our commercial and "The occurrence of today' s communists when they took over scientific relations, will only grave armed conflict between ·in 1949. The United States froze flourish in a world of peace and China and Vietnam is wholly the almost $80 million in Chinese stability," Blumenthal said. creation of Vietnamese author· assets, and r~gards settlement of 
''Even limited invasions risk ities," he said. Peking has said ·both claims as mandatory before wider wars and turn public the invasion was launched to a formal trade agreement can be opinion against the transgres­''punish'' the Vietnamese for worked out. sor," he said. He did not mention China by name, but the reference was clear. 
The treasury secretary, the first American official to meet 
Hayes, Walker 

michael,& co. 
to speak 
Hair Concepts
on retailing 

'Hair designs for Men & Women,
"Careers in Retailing" will be the topic of a presentation to be made at 4:15p.m. in the Hayes­
with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
Healy Auditorium. Ron Hayes, vice president of Pe~~­
op•n law tu•a.-thuta. 8pm
nel and Dan Walker, divt· sionat managc:r of Personnel--In· 
Notth. ¥l mil• .aat of now dam• 
· diana, both Of F&R l...azarus and 
18381 Edlaon at lnd 23 272-7222
Company will be the guest speak­ers. A question and answer 
South 2041 E.lt•land at ltonwood
period will follow. All students regardless of class or major are 
master charge visa 291-1001 
invited and encouraged to attend. 
ENGINEERS 

Let's be candid ... This 
Is a pitch. 
we·re looking for talent. 
At Magnavox Government & Industrial Electronics Co., we want to hire the best engineers and computer scientists we can find. If you quality, and you're interested in a career with the world's leader in communica­tion sytems, Magnavox may be for you. 
That's because, In our business, an outstanding technical staff is the key to success. Magnavox has been remarkably successful because we offer small company atmosphere with large company benefits and challenge! 
Hence the pitch, and this ad. If you like what you see here, get In touch. Maybe both of us will be glad you did. 
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS: T...ay, March&, 1978 

Please contact your Placement Office or send your resume to: 
PROFESSIONAL PLACEMENT 

Magna"o~ 
Advanced Products Division (Magnavox Research Laboratories) 
2829 Maricopa St. Torrance, CA 90503 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 


Editorials 
Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 8 
The Nestle Boycott Question 
Pro Cnn 
''The relentless objective of read leads to improper prepara­
Nestle does not make or sell nurses or midwives to assist problems of malnutrition. these companies is to sell tion. 
any infant formula products in health professionals in holding Nestle is serious about fmding their bottle formula to the Nestle refuses to recog~e 
the U.S. Our Swiss parent clinics on such topics as the meaningful solutions to these parents of the Third World. that capitalizing upon the effects 
company, Nestle S.A., does make importance of breast-feeding, difficult l'roblems and we urgeThey see a bottle boom in the of poverty is life-threatening to 
and sell formula . products in diet for mothers, general hygiene you to jom us in support of the 
turope, Asta, Mnc~. ~Australia and proper use of formula pro­upcoming World Health Organi­baby boom of these impover­the baby. 
and latin America. Nestle S.A. 
ished countries. There is one They claim that they suspend­ducts. zation conference on infant nutri­
involvement with infant foods
major obstacle in the way of ed advertising in the developing 3. No advertising of formula tion initiated by Senator Edward 
goes back to 1866 and, since 
products is done in developing M. Kennedy. For the first timetheir myopic greed--a vener­countries in JUly 1978. Why then 
about 1920, Nestle has distribut­
able convenience food called was a Nestle-sponsored baby countries. the WHO will bring together
ed infant formula in Third World 
mother's mille So an intri­show held in Malaysia in Octo­Nestle gives no free samples of governments, health experts, in­
countries.

cate mass promotional cam­ber, where free samples of their formula to mothers. Doctors, dustry members and industry
Here are some of the facts
paign has been developed product were distributed? These hospital staffs and ~overnment critics to study the problems in
which Nestle has learned about
and honed to manipulative handouts are not charity, but health services are gtven limited depth and recommend viable
infant nutrition: 

perfection.'' advertising aids. Their purpose amounts of free samples. These sofutions, including guidelines
·-Breast-feeding is best for
I Ralph Nader is to attract mothers to their health professionals, who are the for all of industry. 
infants.

r 
The Washington Star purchase, and hook another bot­best judge of the nutritional Support of the boycott will
--Most Third World infants
tle baby. 
needs of mother and infant, are achieve nothing for the health of 
need a supplement to mother's
To emphasize the seriousness of They tell us that they employ the proper interme~ between Third World irifants, support of
breast milk to sustain normal
Nestle s marketing and l'romo­trained nurses to hold clinics for industry and infant formula the WHO conference will, -and
physical and mental growth. 
tion of infant formula lll the mothers. Who trains these· users. that is what we should all be
--The time when a mother must 
5. On occasion, Nestle is concerned about. 
developing countries is no easy nurses? Nestle nurses will be 
begin to supplement her baby's 
requested to _provide formulatask. The practices have led to a trained to Nestle ends. Govern­
diet depends primarily on the 
products or medical equipment ot The Nestle Compan:y boycott of Nestle products, in an ment-trained nurses, hired by 
quantitiy of the · milk she is
attempt to stop promotion of Nestle, will work for Nestle ends. 
missionaries, orphanae;es, doc­
producing. World Health Organ­
tors or hospitals. Nestle scrutin­infant formula in the Third Such trained personnel are much 
tzation consultants have found
World. needed in other areas in the izes each request to insure that
that in developing countries sup­
the requested item is intended to Nestle's response to the boy­developing countries. 
plementation shoUld begin in tlie Reflections cott has been primarily through The relationship between Nes­benefit the community as a
third month. 

public relations--changes that are tle and the medical profession is whole. If there is community·
--Infant mortality rates in de­
cosmetic at best. A newly-crea­often one of mutwil sup,POrt. 
veloping countries have been wide benefit and ifihe request ts on a Friend ted Office of Corporate Responsi­Nestle uses the professton to 
reasonable, Nestle donates these 
decreasmg during the last 30
bility is a pan of their Public promote use of itlfant formula items. We lost a friend and fellowyears.
Relations department. • through a cozy arrangement that Although the price of Nestk student when Andy Sowder died. 
The root causes of infant 
Nestle wants to be needed in makes cooperation wtth Nestle's malnutrition and mortality in the formula product varies from I use the word "died" instead of the developing countries. They attractive to the-health profes­Third World are poverty, lack of country to country (and in some a more subtle description be­will have us believe that their sion. 
food, ignorance and poor sanita­countnes is controlled by the cause its bluntness helps usproduct is a necessity to the It is largely through the medi­tion. government), the overwhelming realize that this is what hasbabies and their mothers. In cal profession that free samples We know that formula pro­majority of formula sales are happened--he is gone. What ourcountries where the child's life are distributed. Again, an effec­ducts are as good a supplement made in urban areas to middle Creator's purpose was in takingdepends upon careful nutrition tive advertising rud because it for infants as ts available today. and upper income mothers and to Andy when He did, we do notand health care, Nestle's is doing suggests medical approval. 
working mothers. 

We also know that formula know--we cannot know. We mayfar more harm than good. Nestle often cites the fact that It is the poor mothers in rural
products have benefited count­
however, look for meaning in ourNestle will defeqd their pro­infant mortality rates are lower in areas, where breast-feeding is
less infants over the 60 years of 
own lives as a result of Andy'sduct as a valuable supplement, urban areas than in rural areas. 
still the norm and where irifant
our experience in developing 
death. For those of you who wereneeded when the baby reaches The market for infant formula is countries. formula_ is gener~lr unavailable, three months. Why does a certainly greater in urban areas, 
To insure that the products do whose tnfants stil suffer a 50 closest to him, what I say may supplement have to be so expen­but any difference in infant 
play a positive role in the health percent mortality rate before the sound cold and distant. Please sive, and so difficult to prepare? mortality rates is due to the age of five. There is no question know that Andy's death has
of infants, Nestle has adopted
If three months is the age when greater availability of medical policies which concentrate on that we must work together to effected me considerably. I feel supplementation becomes neces­attention in these areas, and not educating mothers on the super­improve the nutrition of infants the loss of a friend; I feel sary, why is their greatest promo­to the fact that infant formula is iority of breast milk and on the hom to those mothers. confusion; and I feel sadness as I more widely used. 
tion in the hospitals and clinics proper use of formula products. For years church relit;f groups reflect on this loss--especially as I
The boycott seeks to communi--For example: and government agenctes have
aimed at new mothers? 
think of his family and those They blame poverty tor the cate to Nestle's that such faulty 
1. Every label of formula distributed milk powder and closest to him. 
danger inherent in misuse of reasoning is not acceptable, and product contains the statement other nutritious food products to For those of us who knew him, that it can no longer seek profits their product. Yet, they know that breast milk is best. Detailed poverty groups. In 1977 about a memory remains. This memory at the risk ofThird World babies. 
that their Eroduct will be used by written instructions on preparing 127,000,000 pounds of dried milk 1s different for each of us,The complexity of infant nutrition powder were distributed to for­those suffering the efit:cts of 
the formula are given, and there 
depending on our relationshipin the Third World can no longerpoverty. 
are step-by-step illustrations eign countries under the U.S. 
with him. I carry with me theprovide a screen for Nestle's tolack of clean water leads to showing proper use. The labels government's Food for Peace hide behind.
illness and dehydration of the 
are printed in the official lan­program. Health experts recog­memory of a gentle, warm, and infant. Little money to spend 
guage of the country and in the nize that nutritious food, educa­accepting man. Although I did main vernacular language. tion and the elimination of pover­not spend much time with Andy, 
leads to over-dilutton of an Helen Gallagher expensive product. Inability to The World Hunger Coalttion 
2. Nestle employs qualified ty are major remedies to the [continued on page 9] 

Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 ' opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chns Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb Lang henry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of the Column space· is available to all mem­Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Cacldey Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's EditoF ...... FJien Buddy Business Manager .. _..... John Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............ _Mike Lewis 
/ 
The Observer -Editorials Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 9 
The Candidates Respond 
Hymie!Ryan V. RocheMta 
The Roche/Vita ticket appreciates the endorsement of The Observer. However, we feel that we must clarify Two years ago, writing in the Scholastic, John Phelan 
articulated the general view of students toward their 
severaL points. . .
government almost perfectly. "We need to take an The Koche/Vita campaign is hardly tradittonal, as The
overall serious look at the structure of authority in Observer suggests. Unlike past candidates, ourStudent Government ... ,'' he wrote, ''They must specific­experience is not simply on the haJJ or.class level, ~~t. hasally define their purpose ... and organize a structure that ben campus wide in scope and var1ed m responstbtlmes. 
is efficient and effective .. .Ifno one is willing to revitalize Bill Roc~e is currentfy a mc;mbe~ of the Board of the bureaucratic superstrucw.re of student government, 
Commiss1on~rs and Studt.ot_Ufl\Qn D;r~ctor. H~ has also then we should junk the whole damn thing." 
been a member of the CLL. Hill V1ta, m addition to It is about tune that somebody took up Phelan's 
serving as St. Ed's Hall President, has served as HPC question. Student Government is not working here, and 
representative to the CLC. . As .a res.ult ~f our involvement, we have had expenence m dealmg wtth the hard questions have to be asked. Is Student Government administration, rectors, the Board of Trustees, campuscapable of accomplishing anything? Or are all its ()rganizations, and with students from all over campus.
irutiatives destined to fail, simply because Fr. Hesburgh We are clearly in a unique position to effecttvelyholds all the cards? 
represent students next year.
It is the conviction of Hymie and Ryan V. that the SBP In the past the SBPISBVP have had to sP<:nd the and SBVP can do something. However we also feel that majority of ~eir time learning their. job and how to the SBP and SBVP must take an entirely dllferent 
achieve objectives. Through our expenence, we alreadyapproach than the last three or four student govern­
have an understanding of the exact nature and potential ments. We hold it to be a self-evident truth that as long 
of the office. Since die job only lasts a year, we cannot as the traditional approach is taken, the students will 
afford to spend a year watching someone learn to do the lose. 
job.
We have a definite plan of action to meet the needs ofWhat then will we do dllferently, from the traditional the student body, bOth in goals, such as a full-timeSBP-SBVP candidate? First we shall take an entirely off-caml>us Housmg Director, as well as a new approachdifferent view toward the purpose of the SBP-SBVP. The to readiing_ ~ose goals. As The Observer Qointed out, positions have traditionally been viewed as "administra­the Roche /Vita campaign seeks a new role for students tive" in character. The last couple of SBP-SBVP's have in the University dectsion making process which is qardly 
looked like college students dressed up as business 
traditional. The student will must become a factor m the executives. A typical Student Government photograph 
decisions of the administration. The student government shows an overly-dressed student, sitting at his desk 
. must stop reacting to the administration's mitiatives. combing over reports or talking on the telephone. This 
We must begin to take the initiative ~urs~l':'~s, _and Ol;lf would be fme if the SBP-SBVP had any power. The hard 
campaign has stated what those specific mmat1ves will truth however is that he hasn't any. 
be. 
The Observer expressed concerns that the studentThe thing the SBP-SBVP does have, or should have, government "quickly creates an ineffective bureaucracy however is prestige. He is the elected voice of the which does not represent student views." They alsostudents and as such is their political leader. His express concern over the possiblity of a situation ''where responsibility is to articulate and press for students the SBP attempts to control eve'~g by himself.'' 
views. (No matter how much Fr. Hesburgh dislikes These concerns are important, but they will not be a hearing them.) The SBP should complain the loudest problem for Roche/Vita. There is too much work to be about parietals, the housing shortage, overly-priced 
aone for the job to become a one-man show. Bill Roche records, bad social life and anything else that is vexing 
has extensive experience in delegat~g authority as a the students. 
result of working with the Student lJnio~. Stu~e!J.tS Of course the SBP-SBVP soon finds that as good an 
working in student government must be gtven deas10n making re_~nsibility, as they are in Student Union. 
"articulater" as he is, the administration is not As to effectively representtng student views, the fact interested in hearing what he has to say. It is here that that we have been working with students from all overthe SBP-SBVP' s talents are taxed to the utmost. The campus and have campaigned in every dorm has kept usSBP-SBVP must be willing to go above Fr. Hesburgh's in touch with student co~cearns .. And our P.lan to go
head, complaining to alwnni, board of trustees, and fegl!larly to hall counctl meettn_gs and directly to anyone else who will listen. While doing this however, students will maintain communicattons in the future. 
he must bear in mind that Notre Dame students are here 
. Many students have become frustrated with ~e primarily to get an education and prepare for a career. 
effectiveness ofstudent government. It was the questton Thus while we will vigorously press the administration, 
of whether anything could be done at all by student Hymie and Ryan V. promise that nobody will ever by 
government, not our 9ualifications, that caused The Observer to endorse us 'with reservations. '' If we, as akicked out of here for aiding us in our battle against the student body, display. this kind of negat~ve attitu~e,Administration. 
nothin_g will be accomphshed. The RocheiV1ta camp~gnIf elected, Hymie and Ryan V. will, when Fr. 
is contfdent that mucfi can be done. We must be wtllmg Hesburgh says ''no,'' carry on the fight to any important to speak out and voice student concerns. But talk is notelement of the administration who will listen. Be it enough. Effective leadership entails action. If given the alwnni, board of trustees, or newspapermen, all will opportunity, Roche/Vita wil provide that action. 
know what the students of Notre Dame are thinking. We shall make the students a force which the University will 
Bill Roche 
know about, and have to deal with through letter writing 
Btl! Vita 
campaigns or any other forum which presents itself. 
The following endorse the Roche/Vita ticket forThrough the course of this can1paign, our opponents SBP/SBVP:have frequently pointed out that Hymie/Ryan V. have no Breen-Phillips Hall Council The Observerexperience within student government. We readily Notre Dame Kugby Club Sorin Hall Council admit this. But the last four or five SBP' s had all sorts of Pan~born Hall Council Walsh Hall Council experience and look where they got. Isn't it about time Seruor Class Officers Za1un Hall Council to try a new approach? 
St. Edward's Hall Council Dillon Hall Council 
Mike ''Hymie'' Heaney 
Sophomore Class Officers Lewis Hall Council 
Ryan Verberkmoes 
Sophomore Advisory Council Lyons Hall Council Sailing Club of Notre Dame No endorsements were received. 
• • .Reflections 
[continued from page 8] we can carry with us as we seek a out in love to those around us--to life more full of love. feel free to touch and console a
I do feel that he was a friend, A death that came so quickly to person in pain--to go out of ourbecause these gifts of his were so such a young man makes me way to spend time with one whopervasive. I now feel that I have realize that each day, each mom­is lonely, to put all of ourlost a friend. My memory of him 
ent, may hy my last. This energies into "really" living, andcalls me forward and asks me to enables me to see the precious to look with wonder at the worldlook for gentleness, warmth, and gift that life really is. Andy's around us. Maybe his death canacceptance within myself. It death, confronting me with these enkindle the enthusiasm for lifechallenges me to express these realities, challenges me to live and love within us, which wequalities more fully. Other each moment of my life to the have allowed to become dampen­people will have different mem­fullest, and not to take life and ed in our daily routine. Let's take ories of what made Andy the the people around me for this gift, treasure it, and takeloving man that he was. It is granted. another · step forward in life,these memories that can chal­If we look at Andy's death and realizing that as we step, we will
lenge us, his friends, to become more loving men and women. realize the beautiful gift of life we miss him dearly. 
possess, then maybe we will findThey are gifts from Andy, and 
in this a new inspiration to reach Mike Stauder ultimatelv from our Father. that 
Portman/Wirley 
In sitting down to write this response to The 
Observer's endorsement of the Roche/Vita ticket, my 
initial intent was to put forth a sedate level-headed 
rebuttal which would effectively have said, ''That's a 
real nice article and I don't mean to make waves but I 
would like to discuss these few points .... " It soon 
occurred to me, however, that what this student body 
wants, needs and deserves is a student body president 
who is not afraid ro let it be known when something has 
aroused his ire. It is the timidness on the part of the 
student when confronted by the 'powers-that-be' which 
has resulted in the very limited effectiveness of student 
government in recent years. Let it be known, then, that 
this is a letter of outrage. 
I fmd three points in the arttcle to be particularly 
annoying. Two of these can best be discussed jointly -­
the issue of my desire to act outside the conventional as 
well as the description ofmy campaign slogan. The basis 
of the Portman/Wrrley platform 1s that we are willing to 
act outside the conventional; and here I stress the word 
''willing.'' As long as the traditional channels for action 
function efficiently, I see no need to sidestep them. In 
the past, however, student body presidents have dun~ 
religiously to the use of these channels even though tt 
~ ~orne ap_parent that ~uch usage leads only to an 
mevs.table dead end. I constder myself and my running 
mate, Eileen Wirley, to be candidates who are not so 
manacled by custom that we cannot try fresh approach­
es. 

The article points out that our philosophy does not 
seem to hold up upon bein~ "pressed for examples." This is because ' example ' llllJ>Iies discussion of a particular issue. I think tt is obVIous that issues at this . university are extremely transient phenomena. There­fore, I do not consider issues and • examples" to be as important as attitudes. I will, however, give an 
''examrle'' of our attitude. 
~_fee that we have: amply demonstrated o~t ability to 
utilize the unconventmnal thro!-1$h our campwgn slogan, 
which plays a much more signittcant role than to simply 
"spark interest and gain attention." In deciding to run 
for the offices of SBP/SBVP, we were faced with the 
dilemma of being unknowns. To organize a traditional 
campaign with traditional slogans would do nothing to 
disttnguish ourselves from the other candidates. We 
were not daunted by this position, however, for we did not 
consider ourselves above utilizing a poster which 
thr<_>ugh a rather unique slogan, would make people tak~ 
nonce of us. 

My point is this. A poster is conventional. A poster 
which reads, "They won't stick pins in your mouth" is 
unconventional ·· but effective! Similarly, '•presenting 
proposals to the Hall Presidents Council'' is convention­
al. We believe, though, that we could make these 
presentations, as well as the J?roposals themselves, 
unconventional and effective. This is the importance of 
our ''fresh approach.'' 

The final pomt I would like to make is that I took great 
offense at the condescending attitude implied in the 
statement that "It is commendable that tickets such 
as'Hymie' /Ryan V. aod Portman/Wirley have shown an 
intt;rest in running for office." I picture an employer 
telling a job applicant, ''Well, thank you for aJ?plyin~, 
but we really can't use you;" or perhaps an "objective,' 
observer of the campwgn saying, "Gee, isn't it great 
that those guys are runnmg even though they don't have 
a chance to win.'' I have tned to convince myself that this 
comment in not actually as partisan as it seems, but I 
have found no justification for such a contention. The 
remark sounds like one which would come from an 
editor-in-chief who happens to be a next-door neighbor 
as well as close friend of the endorsed candidate. I only 
wish I could have been the beneficiary of such good 
fortune. 

As I s.Ud, I do not hold that this is a friendly letter. I 
have been angered by what I see as an unfair article, and 
I am speaking out accordingly. I would not consider 
myself a viable candidate for the office of student body 
-.
president if I were a person who holds his tongue when the time is right to make his voice heard. I only hope that my message does not fall prey to a hungry editor's SCISSOrs. 
DanielP. Portman Eileen M. Wirley 

No endorsements were received. 
EpiTO,R 'S NOTE: The endorsement which appeared in Frtday s Observer was, as are all Observer editorials, a statement of the majority of the editorial board. In the case ?f this endorsement, the opinion of the board was unarumous: to endorse the Roche/Vita ticket while expressing our reservations about the effectiveness of ~tude~t government. Portman's assertion that the editor m chief .-::ontrols the endorsement of the board is completely false. 
--~ ­
...----------------------~-----------------------------------------­
Features 

Monday, February 26,1979 -page 10 
Stud Torches the Grotto 
IX>ug Kreitzberg 
'"Scuse me, while I kiss the sky." The rector leaned forward in his chair J imi Hendrix riffed his way into Stud and stared into Stud's bloodshot eyes. 
Baker's beer-scipped brain, causing him Stud tried to return a defiant glare, but 
to abruptly sit up in bed. At ohce, couldn't decide which of the four rectors 
numbing pain enveloped him, partly as h the real one. 
result ofthe ni~ht before, and partly as a "Stud E. Baker?" the rector boomed. 
result of racking his head against the "Yes, your holiness?" 
medicine cabinet when he sat up. Stud, The rector cleared his throat. ''I have a 
working his face' back into shape with his list of charges ftled against you. '' 
hands, attempted to free . his tongue ''Charges{'' 
which had been welded to the roof ofhis ''Yes, concerning your activities last 
mouth by a strange combination of beer night." 
and popcorn kernels. (The presence of "I was at the library last night," Stud 
the beer, Stud could explain. But the stumbled, "now, I mi~t have taken a 
popcorn? It seemeed to Stud that book without checking lt out, but.... '' 
popcorn must grow inside his mouth "Quit while you're behind," sighed the 
with every hangover because he could rector. ''Charge number one: a woman 
never remember eating any. Yet, every stated that you crashed through her door 
rooming, after an evening of intensive and threatened to rape her if she didn't 
intoxication, he always found a few write an English paper for you.'' 
remnantsofOrville Redenbacher' s fmest Stud sulped. ''You know how melo­
lodged in the ~accessible reaches of his dramanc girls get." 
gums.) Stud stghN.o It was going to be ''Charge two: a witness said you tried 
one of those days where one spends to hot wire a golf cart and consequently 
forty-five minutes brushing one's teeth. blew it up." 
With the stereo still blasting, Stud "I never said I was an auto mechanic." 
mana~ed to turn his head in the direction The rector continued. ''Charge three: 
of his roommate who was sitting Corby's says you removed the glass off 
listening to the music and reading the the pinball machine and tried to run up 
Sunday newspaper. your score. Charge four: Security saw 
''Tum that thing down,'' Stud moaned, you drive a car into the reflecting pool. 
keeping his hands over his eyes so they Charge five: Security saw you breaking 
wouldn't fall out of their sockets. lights to the Dome. Char~e six: I saw 
"What?" you set the Grotto on fire. ' 
"I said, 'turn that thing down'. It's too "I was lighting a candle and acciden­
loud!" tally knocked the rack over." 
"What are you talking about? I've got ''Was it also accidental that you poured 
headphones on. You can't hear a blasted five cans of kerosene over the entire 
thing.'' shrine?'' the rector screamed. r.Now, do 
Stud blinked. "Well, I've got very I have to go any further?" 
acute hearing, so turn it down.'' Stud stood up. "I deny everything. 
Somehow he managed to open the Even the charge that I broke mto the 
medicine chest cabinet and take out a bookstore. '' 
bottle of aspirin. Mter taking two out, "You broke into the bookstore?" 
he swallowed the remaining pills and let "Oh," Stud scratched the back of his 
the bottle drop to the floor. His neck, "you didn't know that?" 
roommate turned off the stereo. ''Had a The rector bit his lip. "Listen, I don't 
good time last night, huh?" care ifyour ~rear-grandfather was one of 
"I won't know until somebody tells Sorin's crorues. It's not going to help 
me." you this time. I am going to kick you out 
"Well, the rector called. He wants to of this dorm. Now, who's the ]-Board 
see you when you've recovered." head?" 
Stud smirked. "Good. I'll tell him Grinning, Stud said, "I am." 
about the improper placement of medi­"OK," grimaced the rector, "I guess 
cine cabinets in this place." I'll have to talk with Roemer first, but 
His roommate got up. "Well, I've got you're finished. Get out!" 
to go to the Library: two tests With a nonchalant shrug of the shoul­
tomorrow.'' · ders, Stud turned and left. It didn't 
"Yeah, so do I. I'd better buy the matter, nothing mattered. It was just 
textbooks pretty soon, huh?" a little fun. He was proud of what he'd 
His roommate snickered and stomped done. His friends would be proud. They 
our the door as only roommates can alwaysJ'oked and felt proud about what 
snicker and stomp. they di during the weekends. One call 
"Throat," Stud said to himself and got to his dad and it would be all over. 
out of bed. He didn't feel too bad. Nothing to it. 
Things would be all right if the room Feeling cheerful, Stud strode out the 
would stop spinning. He looked in the dorm towards the dining hall. The cold 
mirror, then quickly closed his eyes for wind whipped and bit at his ears and the 
fear that the mirror would crack. Every afternoon sun, reflecting off the Dome, 
bone, organ, and blood cell screamed caused him to squint a little. His 
obscenities at him as he picked his way stomach knotted up and Stud's smile 
through a debris of beer cans, cigarette turned down a bit. A squirrel scolded 
stubs, and potato chips to the closet. him noisily and the chatter rang in his 
The rector wanted to see him. So what, ears. The two tests he had the next day 
Stud thought. & far as he could loomed before him like Calvary Hill. 
remember, he hadn't done anything Stud glanced to the west and saw a fleet 
wrong last night. Besides, the rector of clouds steamin~ their way across the 
couldn't punish him anyway. Stud's steely blue sky. ' Storm tonight," Stud 
father was a major trustee, his grand­
~ought. He hi~ jacket closer to 
father was a star runnin~ back for the 
Irish under Knute, and his great-grand­
father helped Father Sorin make peace 
with the Indians by selling them • whisky 
and gunpowder. With that kind of 
tradiuon, no one could touch Stud Baker. 
Fearing that's he'd probably wash 
dowti the drain, Stud neglected a shower 
and put on some clothes: green argyle 
pants, plain yellow socks, a mono­
grammed sweater with Digger's auto­
graph on the back, and a pa11 ofNike's. 
Gathering whatever J;lhystcal prowess he 
could, Stud opened his door and stepped 
out into a sea of shaving cream someone 
had sprayed throughout the whole 
corridor. "I didn't know the tide was 
coming in,'' Stud half-muttered to a next 
door friend who had been propped up 
against his door, key in hand, for the 
past six hours. 
Life "On the outside." We are all 

· of the real world when the 
l&1ruo:rs put on their three-piece suits to 
the Job Interview. This ritual 
concern throughout the campus. 
the Seniors are worried about 
'good job'' after spending four 
But I think the schools of the 
are also worried, worried 
about mamtaining their placement sta­
tistics. And the rest of us cannot h~lp 
but think ahead to when we will be 
job-seeking seniors. 
But there is nothing to be upset about; we are, after all, A Breed Of Men in Imponant Positions. 1be Notre Dame means good things for the future, right? Well. maybe not. There is a shon story 
in the December issue of The Atlantic 
Monthly that gives a different view of 
v.:hatlies ahead. The story is "Can IJust 
Sn here for a While?" by Ron Hansen 
the main character, Rick Bozadt: Iha.ppe~ns to be an alumnus of Notre 
He has a good job with Doctor's 
· Supply Co., and the story follows 
ofstarting his own business 
movmg to South Bend. Rick holds 
tenaciously to the belief that he should 
living the good life commensurate 
~s good job. The author skillfully 
this search for the good, happy life 
for itself in this passage from the u1.1~:um_II!' of the story. 
''He loved the thermos coffee canister waitress banged down on his table at , he loved the sweat on his ltcl'·-w~ltt"r glass ... (S)craping the frost off 
Chuck Wood 
the windshield, and seemg all those other guys ... grimacing, chipping away at their wipers, he felt like a team player again ... You'd have to zonkers not to love it." 
Even though he has convinced himself (almost) that he loves his job as a salesman, it takes little more than a co~ent by an old friend about working for himself to start Rick thinking about changing jobs. 
Mi. Hansen seems to believe that· "You are what you notice." He has a. good eye for detail and uses those details observed by his characters to define their moods and personalities. A description of what Rick sees as he and two other alumni go into a South Bend pizza parlor is a· gOod example. 
"Rick says the-three of them in the r~ front windows, in blue shirts and rep-ties and two-hundred-dollar topcoats, frowns in their eyes and grey threads in their hair and credit cards they hadn't used yet." You may find that this use of fine detail edges the story from simply conveying a se~ o_f ble~ess. into being bleak reading ltself. It 1s difficult to determine to what degree this is inteded by the author. · 
I feel, however, that this is a good story; it does have a certain interest for those of us connected with Notre Dame and its image. I suggest trying to fmd a copy of the December Atlantic Monthly, perhaps in. a .study lounge or at the Library Penodical Center, and reading "Can I Just Sit here for a While?" by Ron Hansen. It will get you thinking. 
The Observe Monday, February 26, 1979 -pa8e 11 
Carter calls for another Camp David conference 
WASI-UNGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Carter, determined to "sP,are no effort" for peace in the Middle East, yesterday called for a new Camp David summit ·conference to try to conclude a treaty between Israel and Egypt. 
The talks would be held, possibly beginning later in the week, with Prime Minister Menachem Begin representing Israel but without the participa­tion ofEgyptian President Anwar Sadat. 
Egypt would be represented br. Prime Minister Mustafa Khali , who Carter said had been author­ized by Sadat to conclude the negotiations. There was no official explanation given for Sadat's absence, 
Carter made the announce­
ment at the winduJ? of four days 
of treaty negotiattons between 
Khalil and Israeli Froeign Minis­ter Moshe Dayan. 
Seeing them off on the south lawn of the WHite House, Carter said he was prepared "to spare no effort in achieving the peace settlement'' foreseen in his sum­mit meeting last September with Begin and Sadat. 
By inviting Begin to Camp David, the president seemed to leave the impression that he was looking to Israel to ~ree to terms set by Sadat for linking the treaty to the future of the Israeli-held West Bank of the Jordan River and Gaza. · 
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance is known to have pre­sented new U.S. proposals on the Palestinian issue during his dis­cussions with Dayan and Khalil. 
If all the obstacles to a treaty are removed at a new swrurut meeting hosted by Carter, Sadat could fly . here to join in a successful windup. 
] ody Powell, the White House press secretary, said that "some­time, midweek or so, we ought to know'' whether the new round of negotiations will be held. 
Sadat is the unquestioned decision-maker in Egypt. There is no douht that Khalil would seek his approval before taking any major steps at the talks. 
1 Begin, meanwhile, would be able • to speak for the Israeli government. However, his de­cision would require the ultimate approval of the Cabinet and th9 Israeli parliament. Dayan was flyin~ to ] erusalem where a spectal meeting of the Cabinet was scheduled for tomorrow. Carter's statement indicated some headway was made by Secretary ofState Cyrus R. Vance in the four days of thalks with Khalil and Dayan at the 
Maryland mountain retreat. 
But Carter gave no details. 
In Cairo, meanwhile, the Middle East news agency reported that Khalil would fly diiecdy home instead of stopping in London, as initially planned. 
The mediation effort, directed by Vance, was aimed at clearing roadblocks to completion of the treaty initially blueprinted by Carter, Begin and Sadat in September. 
The Egyptian newspaper A1 Ahram said"the United States had submitted a proposal to deal with the future of the Israeli-held West Bank of the Jordan River and Gaza. 
AI Gomhouria, another Egyp­tian newspaper, said Khalil's delegation had responded with ideas for ending the Israeli military government in the two territories 

.. .Forum 
[continued from page 1] 
showing them that you are their voice." 
Portman stressed the need for the ticket to use unconventional methods to attract attention because he and Wirley are relatively unknown. He cited this as the reason for the ticket's campaign slogan, "We won't stick pins in your mouth," and for their suggestion of a "monkey mail man." 
Mike "Hymie" Heaney, calling the role of the SBP one of a "motivator," said the position's function is to "articulate student needs, work on them, and be willing to press for them.'' 
He also dismissed his lack of experience in student affairs, saying that "student government has not been good for the past five years, and it has been full of experienced people.'' 
Heaney reiterated his proposed letter-writing campaign to "the people who really run this place--the alumni and Board of Trustees.'' He said their financial support of the University gives them a voice in the running of the school. ' 
Roche called the plan ''foolish,'' in respect to the issue of parietals, 
[continued on p.;1ge 12] Dan Portman and Ezleen Wirley spoke last mght at the forum. [photo by Mtke Bzgley] 
~-----------------------------------------------------­
ROCCOS 

men's hairstyling at comfortable ptlces 531 N. ffiichlgan 
233-4957 

fdv., pork photo -· 
~.. 

. F BE'ST PRICES FOR YOUR 
!;liN.~~~oros 'ti·•·.··.~~~w~ 
·. ·····1432 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUIHBEND 
'287~55 

Mike "Hymie" Heaney and Ryan Ver-Berkmoes represented thf!mselves at the candidates forum. [photo by Mtke Bigley] 
Voters to decide Cleveland's fate 
a.EVELAND (AP) -An acri­monious campaign full of sound and fury is coming to an end as the city's 290,000 registered voters prepare to decide this week what price they're willing to pay to bail out the nearly bank· rupt city. 
City residents will vote tomorr­ow whether to boost income taxes by 50 percent -up from 1 percent to 1 1I 2 percent -and if they should sell their 45,000-customer Municipal Electric Light System. 
Although Clevelanders have rejected income-tax inc reases in the past and enjoy the lowest such levy of any of the state's six largest cities, polls have indicat­ed this levy will be passed. 
The city has been in default since Dec. 15 on $15.5 million worth of notes, including $14 million held by six local banks. Although the banks bald off taking action, waiting to see what happens to the tax increase proposal, the threat of possible legal action hangs over the city. 
Cleveland owes state pension funds $5.4 million, and the state has shown it is in no mood to wait. Fund officials started seizing some Cleveland tax re­venues in January to satisfy their liens. 
But Mayor Dennis J. Kucinich said the city will be on the road to recovery from the default if just the tax hike is passed. 
Countering Kucinich's predic­tion, City Council President George L. Forbes said Cleveland will be on the skids to bankruptcy unless both issues pass, and that if only the tax is accepted, bankers will call in $14 million in defaulted notes. 
Both Kucinich and Forbes, who have bitterly accused one another of being the main cause of the city's problems, have predicted approval of the tax increase-which would add $100 a year to the Cleveland payroll taxes paid by a person earning $20,000. 
The Observer Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 12 
... Forutn 


CAL EMMERSON'S SUCCESS IN ENGINEERING DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT AT SOLAR IS MUSIC TO OUR EARS. 
It takes a lot of discipline to master the art of playing the piano. It also takes discipline to manage over 180 engi­neers and technicians in such areas as aerodynamics, heat transfer, computer science and mechanical design and combustion. 
Solar's Cal Emmerson has mas­tered both. 
"Solar has a variety of oppor­tunities for mechanical and electrical engineers as well as engineers with MBA's," Cal reports. 
Solar, the leading builder of in­dustrial turbines up to 10,600 hp, is looking for engineers with back­grounds in aerodynamics, ther­ponent subassembly and product testing. Engineers with an interest in rotating machinery and its applica­tions in the worldwide oil and gas industry. 

Solar is located in San Diego. And aside from the more obvious year round outdoor attractions of this area, San Diego has an extremely active cultural life -symphony, museums, ballet, theatre, and a number of other exciting events. 
Our representative will be on campus Tuesday, February 27. If you're interested in getting your career off on the right note, sigri up at the placement office, call Tom Graham collect, (714) 238-6027, or write in confidence to Solar Turbines International, San Diego, CA 92138. 
You'll find working and living in San Diego is music to your ears. 
•
Ill~ 

SOlARnJRBINES INIERNATIONAI 
An Operating Group of lnternahonal Harvester 
[continued from page 11] 
because he feels the Board will do nothing to change the Catholic nature of the school. Heaney also proposed that an art work, to be commissioned by students, be erected as a "monument to parietals." 
The candidates differed. in their proposed methods of organizing their administrations. Roche said he plans to delegate much of the SBP's responsibilities to members of his cabinet. He intends to use such committees as the Campus Life Commission and the Board of Comissioners as channels for needed action, he said. "It's not just a one-man crusade,'' he noted. 
· Heaney, claiming a "philosophical bias ;~.gainst committees," said he plans to "emphasize personal contact." "The school has only 8,000 students," he said. "We don't need a large bureaucracy. ' ' Portman said he plans to learn the system of government better in order to evaluate his options in taking any action. 
In response to a question, both Eileen Wirley, Portman's running mate, and Ryan Ver-Berkmoes on the Heaney ticket, both freshmen, said that being freshmen was an advantage. They said they believe that they are not apathetic, as are some upperclassmen. 
"I have a lot ofenthusiasm," Wirley said. "I'm not jaded like some people I know here." 
All the candidates agreed that an off-campus representative should be appointed to the Board of Commissioners, and that the University should participate in the boycott of Nestle products. 
Nestle has been accused of contributing to malnutrition in Third World countries by urging mothers to use the company's dietary supplement for infants instead of breast milk, which is healthier. 

~-----------~----~-~-~ 
The Observer Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 13 
Golic forced to quit 
DiSabato reaches Nationals 
But since DiSabato hadn't five third place winners are also
by Bill Marquard 
Sports Writer wrestled Tyrone Rose of Las chosen as wild card representa­Vegas, Nevada, the loser and tives by the coaches. DiSabato Although he experienced prob­supposed second-place finisher drew the tournament coaches' lems in his ftrSt match, Notre in the championship bracket, the accolades by being chosen for his Dame's junior co-captain Dave two wrestled off to determine the second straight trip to the 
DiSabato rallied to outclass the true second place winner. Dave Nationals. 
field at 134 pounds in the NCAA lost a hard-fought 14-13 decision, "I wasn't mentally prepared Western Regional Wrestling two of his op.e_onents points for mat first match,'' explains coming when DISabato was in­DiSabato, now tied for second on
Championships held at the ACC 
over the weekend. jured and then taken down in the Notre Dame's all-time wrestling match. win list. ''There was too much
Pinned in the ftrSt ~riod of his 
pressure on me in that ftrSt
ftrSt-round match, DISabato won Yet although the ftrSt and 
four matches in the consolation second-place winners in each match. I was looking ahead in bracket by scores of 20-6, 18-5, weight class advnce to the NCAA the tournament and wasn't con­
12-2 and 10-4 to win third place. Finals at Iowa State in two weeks, centrating one match at a time." 
-
"I'm really looking forward to the Nationals again. When I was in high school, I set goals for myself. The first was to make it 
to the state meet, the second was to place and the third was to win. I've set those some goals for myself in colle~e. Last year I went to the Nanonals--this year I hope to improve on the one match I won last year and go even further." 
Bob Golic, Notre Dame's two­today the knee was stiff, and I Dave Rodgers and Vic Zanetti time wrestling All-American who realized that it took a lot more of 
at 190 and 142 respectively were 
finished third in last year's a beating in competition like this the only other Irish wrestlers to Nationals, won his ftrSt two than in practice--It's better to post wins in the tournament, matches of the tournament stop now rather than risk further Rodgers scoring a 9-8 win over (which were also his ftrSt two injury." Portland State's Mark Munson in matches of the year). Golic Golic retires with a career the ftrSt round of the consolation pinned Vincent Nulk o£ Air Force record of 56-6-1, all five of those bracket while Zanetti won by 1n 1: 39 in his first match and then losses coming. in NCAA tourna· default over Dave Johnson of scored a 7-2 decision over Mike ment compennon. 
Indiana State. Wagner of Cal-Poly in the semi­All other Irish wrestlers lost 
Cal-Poly, ranked twelfth in the
finals of the championship their first matches in the cham­country in the most recent matbracket. pionship bracket and dropped to rankings, swept seven of ten firstBut Golic became wary of his the consolation matches. Ceorge places in winning the team tideknee which stiffened after Satur­Gedney advanced to the consola­by a whopping 81 ¥• points overday's match, and he decided to tion semi-fmals with an 11-2 win, second-place Portland State.
forfeit his finals match to Cal­but problems making weight on Cal-Poly had all ten of theirPoly's David Jack. Sunday morning ended Gedney's wrestlers in the finals and ad­"I caught my shoe in the mat Notre Dame career rather abrupt­vanced all ten to the Nationals.
in my second match Saturday, ly. Gedney finishes seventh on Notre Dame finished eighth with and the knee twisted sliWitly as I the Irish all-time win list with 51 


went down. When r got up career victories. 
by Michael Ortman Korowicki finished 1-2 to _give the 
Sports Wnler Irish a slim 49-48 lead. The 
spectators and participants 
As Athletic Director Edward responded with a thunderous "Moose" Krause put it, "That roar that shook the walls of was just like the darn Cotton Rockne Memorial. Bowl. " Perhaps there was no In the next events, the three­better way to describe Notre meter diving, the Irish needed Dame's thrilling 57· 56 come from another 1-2 finish to clinch the behind win Saturday, over the victory. That's just what they visiting swimmers from Illinois got. Freshman Wally Daniels, State. who had earlier posted a 30-point 
After the Red Birds won each win in the one-meter dives, of the ftrSt four events, Dennis tallied 230.25 points to take ftrSt Stark's Irish trailed, 24-10. But place. But the big story was Notre Dame carne roaring back, the surprise second place finish taking seven of the next eight to of sophomore Chris Leonard. He clinch the season-ending, one­edged ISU' s Bill Merrit by just point victory. 2. 70 points to seal Notre Dame's 
Leading off the Irish comeback first win at home in four outings. was sophomore John Komora. "I was pleasantly su.wrised The South Bend native clocked a with Chris' performance,' said season-best 2:02.3 in the coach Stark. ''He really carne 200-yard individual medley to through for us. " p<?St the ftrSt Irish win of the The meet was, indeed, an afternoon. Komora carne back emotional one. ' 'I was im~ressed just minutes later to take the with the team's spirit, ' said 100-yard freestyl~ in 49.6 Stark. ''They showed an awful seconds, edging out ISU' s Brendt lot of excitement.'' Smith by just four tenths of a Following the meet, the Irish second. tankers were jublilant, to say the 
Althougp no new school least. They responded to their records were set in the meet, two season-ending victory by of the latest additions to the throwing several fully clothed Notre Dame record book won individuals into the pool, their respective events. including Stark, the announcer, Sophomore Pat Laplatney easily the pool supervisor ("Bi17 Ed"), won the 200-yard backstroke, and even this writer. "Its great beating out ISU's second place to go out a winner," said captain finisher by more than four Jofin Nolan. "There's a certain seconds. Freshman Don Casey cohesiveness on the team this took the 200-yard butterlly in year. Considering we had 13 2:01.6, just two tenths of a freshmen and 11 sophomores, second shy of his own varsity we've really pulled together record. well." Nolan added, "I was 
With just three events really honored to be captain.'' remaining, the Irish trailed by With their 5-6 re2Ular season six, 47-41. But the next event, behind them, the IriSh swimmers the 200-yard breaststroke, was a will now begin preparations for Notre Dame strong suit. John next weekend's Midwest Willamowski 'lnd Kevin Invitational Meet at Illinois State. 
17 Yz points. 

(Any morning, Monday through Friday 6:00a.m. to 11:00 a.m.) 
Nobody makes better breakfasts than Golden Bear and, nobody gives you more for your money. Nobody. 
1. EGGS  2. FRENCH TOAST  
Two Grade A, extra large eggs served with hash browns, buttered toast, and jelly.  Four half slices served with two strips of bacon or two porkies.  

3. WAFFLES 
One waffle served with two strips of bacon or two porkies. 
4. PANCAKES 
Three pancakes served with two strips of bacon or two porkies. 

(Offer ends April 30. 1979) 

• 52820 U.S. 31' North-South Bend • 6111 CrawfordviUe Road-South Bend 
•921 Weat McKinley-Miahawaka 
Molarity 



ACROSS DOWN 22. Trim 
c
23. Taking long
1. High, steep 1. Spoiled child atepacliff 

R
2. Moon: 24. Code of diplo­6. Reinforced French matic eti­

12. Putoral 3. Impulse quette 
0 
13. Took away 4. Rural abode 26. An indefinite 
quantity16. Wrathful 
s
5. Go-a kite! 

16. "The Arabian 26. Fights
6. Intelligent

Nights" char­27. Skulk 
s
7. Rent anew acter: 2 wds. 

29. Caricature8. Surrounded17. Swarm 
w
by 31. Section of 
18. Deadlocked Great Britain
9. Male swan 

0
19. Carry 33. Beer ingredi­
10. Appraise 

ent Rvisited place 35. Slightly open 
20. Frequently 
11. Exposed as false

22. Warbled 36. Actor Hudson 
14. Stiletto 

D
23. Soft and 37. Victim ab90rbent 18. Harbor boats 39. Love's call 
s
26. Tremble 21. Colony in­40. Navigati<'n 
s..cts need proudly 
26. 
Walks 

27. 
Lag behind. 

28. 
Out of sorts 

29. 
Plied with questions to 

get infor­mation 

30. 
Ceremony 

31. 
'Merchandise 

32. 
Commotion 

33. 
Listen! 

34. 
-on, talk about inces­santly 


38. Small instru­ment 
40. 
Student's main course of study 

41. 
Pried (into) 

42. 
Rapidly 

43. 
Shiny 

44. 
Lively 





Friday's Answers 


o-o 6. Flowers 4 4-4 12, Healy 0 o-o o. Hawkins 00-0 0, Kelly 0 0-0 0. 37 19-21 93. 
LaSalle [70]--Connolly 1 2-3 4, Lynam 7 o-o 14, Brooks 76-8 20, Gladden 70-0 14, Kanaskie 7 0-0 14, Webster 1 0-0 2, Harter 0o-o 0, Plakis 10-0 2. Spain 0 D-O 
o. Williams 2 o-o 4, Miller 1 o-o 2. Piotrowski 0 0·0 0. 30 10·15 fO. 


VILLAGE INN Pizza Parlor 
401 N. Hickory, across from the 
Town & Country ShoppingCenter 
ALL YOU CAN EAT!!
'*********************** 
pi.z.za, salad, soup& pasta, 7 days a week 
S2.59 LUNCH S2.99 SUPPER 
11 am to lpm 5 pm to 8 pm 
S.25 mug of beer from 5pm to 7pm 
free small soft dtlnk with ND Of smc I.D. live entertainment Ftl. & Sat. nights 

DON'T START OUT. TAKING DICTATION. START OUT GIVING IT. 
In civilian life, a college graduate can often start a'l a trainee. 
In the Navy, she starts as an officer. 
Women Naval Officers serve in Communications, Engi­neering, Computer Thchnology, and dozens of other fields. They have the same responsibilities as their male counter­parts, earn the same money, and enjoy the same benefits. 
If that sounds like your kind of opportunity, speak to the Navy Officer Programs Officer who will be on campus at St. Mary's in the Placement Office, and at the NROTC Unit office at Notre Dame, on the 27th of February. Or give us a call anytime at (312) 657-2234, collect. 
---------------------~------~----­
The Observer Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 15 
Lose 6-5, 7-4 
leers blow comeback bid 
by Brian Be~lmre Sports Wnter 
DENVER-In the span of just 
• two days, the Notre Dame hockey team saw a two-week comeback slip right out of its hands. Even more quickly than the Irish soared from fifth to second place in the Western Collegiate H~ Association, they tumbled down to fifth this weekend and put into question their chances for home ice in the upcoming playoffs. Denver University handed Notre Dame its ftrst sweep on the road this year, stoppifle a five· game Irish win strealc wtth a 6-~ victory Friday night and complet· ing the sweep with a 7-4 win Saturday at the DU Arena. The two losses dropped Notre Dame's league record to 17·12·1 and its · overall mark to 18-15·1, but more importantly, with Minnesota and WISConsin sweeping and Duluth winning and tying, the Irish fell behind all three of those clubs in the standings. Notre Dame still has a shot at home ice, but with its performance this weekend, 
made its job for attain!f.fs the home advantage a very · cult one. "We just did not execute the whole weekend against Denver as we had been in the t>ast,'' said Irish coach ~ South. "We dido' t forecheck effectively, we 
dido' t pass well and we just did not cover up on defense. Denver played well and capitalized on 
our mistakes. That's what did us in." 
Notre Dame's inability to hang 
onto the puck in its own zone 
resulted in the first two Pioneer 
~s Friday. Darrell Morrow 
mtercepted a sloppy pass from 
out of the -comer and had Irish 
goalie Dave l.aurion for himself, 
and scored his first of twO goals 
for the series on a 20 foot 
slapshot. Ken Beny followed 
with two straight, the second one 
coming with J df Brownschidle 
off for tripping, for a 3-0 Pioneer 
lead after one period. 
Notre Dame bounced back in the first halfofthe second period. J df Peny f.trSt followed up his own wrist shot to put it by Denver RQalie Scott RoblOSOn at 4:05. 'Ihen with the Pioneers' Ed Beers off for elbowing, Dave Poulin zipped a pass ~ two DU defenders and found Steve Schneider streaking in on right wing. Schneider found the upper right comer perfectly and closed the gap to 3-2 at 6:~1. 
But an Irish mistake again resulted in another Denver goal with less than a minute to go in the period. Jim Brown made it easy for Beny to get his ftrst collegiate hat trick when he lost the puck 15 feet near the front of the ~-Beny raced in on Laurton for a 4-2 Denver lead heading into the fmal20 minutes. 
Notte Dame again struck back early, with Schneider scoring his second ~oal of the game 59 seconds tnto the third period. Glenn Johnson and Mark David­son res~nded, however, with two stra.1ghr DU goals for a 6-3 lead. Davidson's eventual game winner came at 11:48. 
The Irish did not quit, however, and Poulin closed the gap to 6-4 with an unassisted tally at 15:34. Then with Laurion pulled from the Irish goal, Greg Meredith beat Robinson on a quick shot from in front for a one-goal deficit with 35 seconds to play. The Pioneers held on 
·despite three golden opportunities Notre Dame failed to caJ'-italize on in the last 20 secon<is. Laurion ftoished with 28 saves while Robinson stopped 21. "I'm not sure ;ust why we couldn't execute,' said Smith. "We had two tough series the last rwo weeks and might have been mentally tired. But Denver did,play well and just plain beat us. 
Kevin Nagurski and Denver's Jim Turner both were forced to sit out Saturday night for a fight the previous evening. To adcf to Notte Dame's troubles, Tom Michalek dressed but did not play Saturday due to strained tendon in the left ankle and rwo other centers, Brian Burke and Dave Poulin, were less than 100 percent. 
Denver came out flyin~ in.the ftrst period but this time inflicted all the damage in the f.trSt four minutes. Davidson, Morrow and Beers all tallied for a 3·0 DU lead. 
In between all the scoring was a break in the rink's plexiglass, one of three breaks which plagued both games. 
Notre Dame again struck back early in the second period when John Schmidt found Ted Wdtzin 

Tom Michalek typified the Irish luck as he sprained an anM/e in Fnday 's loss and watched Saturday's fiasco from the bench. 
After Alex Belcourt got his near center ice. Weltzin raced second ~al ofthe game at 2:29 of into the Pioneer zone. and beat the thtrd, it appeared the g?alt~nder Stuart Btrenbaum Pioneers were about to blow I wtth J~t 33 seconds. elapsed. Notre Dame off the ice. But Denver s Frank Xa~er put a Meredith and Brownschidle came rebound shot by Launon at 10:24 right back and scored within 22 to again giv~ DU a three-goal s~conds of e~ch o~er to giye the lead.. Schnetder re~pon~ed for Insh some life wtth 17 nunutes the Insh at 15:16 With his third still to play. goal of the series, but Notte 
Dame still trailed ~-2 going into
Notre Dame took charrge of the the fmal p_eriod_ game from here, and fmally [continued on page 13] 
Classifieds  All classified ads muto the issue in which thclassifieds Monday thrcla~~ifieds must be pre st be rece1ved by 5:00p.m .. two days prior e ad is run The Observer office will accept ough Fnday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All ·paid. either in person or through the ma11.  
Found: a calculator, between FlannerNotices and Graoe. Call1641 to Identify. Lost: would the person who picked up myBICYCLE CLUB! Udo aid sweaterln the library for me, butShort meeting, LaFortune Basement, doesn't know wf1(, I am, please call1219.Monday, Feb. 26, 7 p.m. New members Reward-no questions asked.welcome!I Lost: gold chain at 823 N.D. Ave. FridayFOUNTAINVIEW PLACE NURSING nlte (pimp party). Great sentimentalHome In Mishawaka needs volunteers to value. Reward. Dave 6828.assist In various phases of care for their residents. Feeding, visiting, activities program. Call Volunteer Services, 7308. For Rent To all CILA volunteers for the Family and Children Center-There will be no recrea· 5-bedroom, 2-baths available for newtlon hour this Monday. Thank you! school year, $300 mo. Will rent June 1 thru summltr for $150 mo. 232·9498,Save your Saturday afternoon for the 291-4528.Alumnae Seminar, March 3, 1-3 pm In the Library Auditorium. Stimulating Need rally big sound for your nextdiscussion about life after Notre Dame party? Two Peavey loudspeakers withwith women who've experienced lt. 300w mixer/amp. Adapts to any system for great sound magnlgicatlon. Call Bob: 3634.Nocturned Nlghtfllght, WSND-89FM, Nlghtraln Lane features the music of Walk to campus. &-bedroom house forDlctcle Betts tonight. rent this tall. Furnished. Nice. Call 272-1729 after 7:00. Lost&Found Wanted Lost: at Glusseppe's, Saturday nlght­1. an open, tte at ned(, off-white sweater Need ride to SEATILE spring break.and off-white pair of mittens. Will share driving and expenses. Call2. a SMC key-chain with SMC I. D. and 2 Steve Miller, 7829 evenings, around 11.keys on lt. If found, please call Cathy Perreault at Interested In Summer camp Jobs?(219) 284·5168 {LeMans) $5 rewardI Counselors-Instructors wanted for pres­tige boys and girls camp near Kalamazoo.Lost: my green rUQbv jacket at Lawrence SeegerGiuseppe's last Satunf.Y, please If 1765Maple,you've found It, return lt. I need it for the Northfield, Ill. 60093Ireland trip. Tim 1445. REWARD. LOST: Black german shepherd puppy 1978 FORO SUPERVAN. REGULARnamed Gretchen, In the vicinity of GAS. CAPTAINS CHAIRS, WESTERNUncolnway West and Chapin. Call MIRRORS, REAR & SIDE DOOR233-7213. Reward. GLASS. READY FOR CONVERSION.. $6500 OR BEST OFFER. CHRIS,Lost: one crutcll outside of the Library ffl-4292 or 287-7272.about a week and a half ago. If you've seen this crutch alive. call Mike at 1678. NOTRE DAME at MICHIGAN Basketball tickets for sale, (Sunday, March 4), $2,Found: gold high school class ring-out­Mike (313) 663-3011.side Rock-says Blue Ash on lt. Call7883 to illentlfy. USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun. !H Ralph Casperson 1303 BuchananLost: Brother lost gold Michigan State Road, Niles. 683-2888.class ring last Saturday night at hockey game at ACC. Ring was for class of '76 Canon AT-1, with 1.8, excellent condi­with green stone. It has sentimental tion, warantee. Call John, 8534.value. Call 8410.  For sale: gas stove, $25, 289-1820. Functional. Need ride for 2to Ft. Myers Florida over break. Can leave Wed. Call Brian 1423. Need ride to U. of Mlch. on March 2and ride back after the game of the 4th. If you can help, call Mike 3889. OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Ex· penses paid. Sightseeing. Free Info.-· Write: IJC, Box 44!10-14, Berkeley, CA 94704 CINCINNATI If you're going In that direction March 2 and coming back March 4, we'd like to go with you. We'll share driving, expenses and provide witty conversation. Call Mo, 6369, or Jean, 8148, so we can be there for our friend's wedding. Need ride to Fort Lauderdale over break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Perry, 1409. Need ride to Madisen, Friday afternoon March 2, and tD Ft. Lauderdale over spring break. Call Usa 8112. Need rlde to Hartford, CT. area for spring break. Want to lea¥e Wed. afternoon, but will accept most anything. Please call Marybeth 288-!Kl49. Tickets Desperately need 1or 2GA East Carolina tlx. $S$ Barry 8921 Personals Come see 8111 Melvin torn and tattered, shattered, splattered all over Corby's. 21st B'day celebration tonight at Corby's. Joe Philbin Is definitely a lady-killer and he loves ltl! Danny-you 11'11 wild blue Andalualan cectll Genetically fiUII, Your bfo maJor,,S. Do you tltlnk B.ltl)aytd our dubious cempanlolllhlp?  Betsy Spunky Boyle, Happy 19th Birthday, Teresa Janina VIcki Rosanna, don't be so blue, those truckdlrvers aren't worthy of you cupcake St. Sue, six months-2 days Is what our calendar reads. Who knows what may happen on that fateful day, Love, The Night Clerk To Big Scoop: "I've been building a ralnbow...many times I've thought I would never com· plete my rainbow because of rainy days and otoudy people. But now being older and lust a little wiser I've realized that my rainbow doesn't stop because of obsta­cles..." Thanks for helping me be-ME­206 plus 1, Remeber: blaclanall works two ways! 5a.m. Clubers P.S. Are the sharks biting this weekend? Hey Twit! A belated Salukl Howl In congratula· tlons of grad school. ietter late than ~. Also, I hope you can live with lt. Love you, Wuss Anxiously Awaiting, Illata to walt but I hesitate-how do youfeel about older women? Miss Surreptitious R£NEW, Inc. 1111111 voluntlen fir Just 1 flw tloan for tilt MXt flw Wllbnds INintlng alld minor rtpaln en fllmes In the NO ntlghborhood). Tiki an ICtlve lnttrat In your nelgllbon. till Velun­fllr Services, 73011. Katie, If you can't find your Morrissey mystery "Paul," would one from Cavan­augh do? · P.G. Anne, I've been looking for a beauty like you for along time. I hope you like the fringe benefits that go along with it. Luv, Beast  INPIRG Mlltln11 Tonlght-7:00 P.M. SICOIICI Floor LIFor· tune, Nader's Raden uy "bllhm or be square" Walsh Third Floor, Thanks for a great week--especially Reenle, Nancy, Mary, Sue, Meg and Julie. Have a good semester! Reenle and Julie, hope you get over that fever. Sue Radio Free Notre Dame "Mouth VS. Ear," hosted by E.J. Eldridge. Tonight at 11 p.m. on WSND-AM640. TIRED OF DISCO? THE MUSIC OF THE GRATEFUL DEAD WILL ROCK YOUR DISCO BLUES AWAYI Thanks to all who made 21 so much fun, especially Bugs who made It happen. Love, Burning Debbie Fondu, HAPPY 8ELATED BIRTHDAY TO T THE WORLD'S GREATEST SISTER! You're as sweet as a lamb. Love, Joan FATFACE, You gi'O$$ pig! Space and Croclco P.S. How ya doing f1lz? Mild ride 11 flerlda? ICIIIIIvilla Frt­et lnlk fer Flr1 Laudlnllle. m. c.rt Harry••. Hey BASS, Wanna wrassle? MMton Brando Many, many, many thanlcs to IILL SWIFT; I can never repay you. I "passed my test" and owe It all to you!I Kim Glenn, Nice pimp! Aftar going all the way to Hammond, the least yo1. could have done Is bring me one!I Kim HI roomiest! Greg says I don't see you much so I should send you apersonal and say Hll Kimber Maura de Farlay,ASonnet Love, GEH  

=~i12orts 
Irish crush LaSalle, exJ>lode in second half 
by Craig Chval Sports Wnter 

Before Saturday night, LaSalle basketball coach Paul Westhead thought ''The System'' was the best thin~ to come down the road since sliced bread. But after Notre D~tme's 61-point second half explosion, the Explorers' ballyhooed fast-break offense looked more like stale bread. 
Westh<:ad probably discovered two thing> in Notre Dame's 93-70 romp bei ore 11,345 fans in the ACC. One, that his 6-7 All­America forward, Michael Brooks, can have a cold shooting night, like most other mortals, and two, that Brooks can't guard five play<:rs at the same time. 
The E:q>lorers, 14-11 coming into the game, fell behind early, but rebo1mded to hold a slight advantage throughout most of the first talf and take a 33-32lead at halftime. The visitors' chang­ing zone defenses were instru­mental in holding Notre Dame's first half shooting percentage to .366, a ::ar cry from the Irish season clip of .543. 
But Nc•tre Dame coach Digger Phelps noticed the flaw in LaSalle's defenses--with Brooks positioned down low to hit the defensive: boards, the area just inside cl: e free throw line was wide open. 
So Ph :Ips turned so_P,homore forward Jrlando Woolridge and senior center Bill Laimbeer loose on offense. The result: a career-high 21 points for Wool­ridge, and a season-high 19 for Laimbee:·. 
Woolridge, who reached the magic number of 21 for the second straight game, explained his insic.e success. "We Saw from the filins that their defenses left the inside open, so I was just flashing to the ball to take advantage of it. 
Included in Wolridge's 10-for­15 shooting performance were three slam dunks. But on several other occasions, the 6-9 leaper showed good poise by slowing up the attack when it was apparent that he didn't have an opportuni­ty to bend the rim. 
"It's just a matter of trying to play percentage ball," said Woolridge. "If it wasn't a good fast break opportunity, I just pulled back out." 
After Laimbeer gave the Irish the lead for good at 40-39 with 
16:43 to play, Woolridge and Tracy Jackson led the Irish on a tear that stretched the margin to 51-39. The pair of sophomore forwards teamed up to score 11 unanswered points, seven from Woolridge and four by Jackson. 
LaSalle turnovers contributed heavily to the Notre Dame bar­rage. Errant passes led to a slam by Jackson, and a Woolridge seeing-is-believing three-point play. The Explorers committed 16 of their 25 turnovers in the second half. 
It would be difficult to find another half all season to lnatch Saturday's second half, as far as the Irish were concerned. While shooting . 5 79 as a team, they held LaSalle to a .486 mark. Brooks, who averages 23.5 points per .game and shoots 57. 7 percent from the field, was held to 20 points on 7-for-19 shooting. 
"There's no doubt about our defense winnin~ the second half,' ' offered Laimbeer, who hit seven of ten field goals and all five free throws. He also grabbed rebounds to help the Irish to a 51-30 advantage in that department. 
Monday, February 26, 1979 -page 16 

The 6-11 center shared the game's most valuable player award with Woolridge, marking the second straight game he's been so honored. "In the last few games, I've really been crashing the boards, and that's created some more offen5ive opportunities. And today, we knew that they were weak inside, so I was looking for my shot a little bit more. " 
Kelly Tripucka provided one final encouraging note for the Irish, who enter tonight's home finale against East Carolina with a 21-3 record. The 6-7 forward, who sprained his ankle in the opening moments of last Wed­
Tl1ere-'s no bucking this systetn 
Night and day. St. Marys and Notre Dame. Bill Laimbeer and Orlando Woolridge. The first and second halves of the LaSalle basketball game. 
Anyone who saw Notre Dame play for the first time on Saturday night must be thoroughly confused. Few things contrast as well as the first and second halves 10 the Irish's 21st win of the season. 
Statistically, Notre Dame played about its best and worst halves of the season. The question arises: ''Which half saw the real Notre Dame. Answer: neither. 
The real Irish team shows itself a little bit in every game but will never reveal itself for 40 consecutive minutes on one occassion. The tru McCoy has won 21 games and lost only three. Often this real team looks like the best collegiate basketball team in the country. Other days, like the first stanza of Saturday's game, this handsome­
ly attired group mixes well with all  the  other  
also-rans.  
This  pattern  tends  to  make  Irish  fans  very  

boastful but at the same time somewhat nervous. South Benders would like to see everyone on ND's squad to have their best day. If that happened Disger Phelps' team would score twice as many po10ts as they did this weekend. The reason this will never happen is because of ''THE SYSTEM.'' 
LaSalle thought they had "'TI-lE SYSTEM" but that was just Paul Westhead's excuse to his team to get them to look somewhat organized in between full-court baseball passes. The real Notre Dame team lies in the system. 
Few college coaches are known for inventing or uniquely incorporating a system. John Wooden had one at UCLA that was the most successful ever known. Dean Smith employs his system at North Carolina and it has taken the Tarheels far (although it broke down on Saturday against Duke). But the newest system can be found at Notre Dame under the fine tuning ofPhelps. It is this system that has 

Ray 
O'Brien 
made the best basketball team m the country. 
Phelps' system has been in the works ever since Adrian Dantley left. It consists of nine players (now that Salinas is ineligible). Each ~layer is a specialist of sorts that has a responsibility but is versatile enough to adjust to different combina­tions of five players that appear on the court at one time. 
Which person gets the most points is dictated by the style of play of the opposition. For this reason, all nine players will never have their ''best'' games on one day (assuming best is measured in point output). But to the system's advantage, it is not likely that every player will have a bad day in the same 40 minute span. That is why Notre Dame has finished on the short end on only three occassions and are the favorites to capture the national crown. 
Against Kentucky, the fifth game of the year, the system had several kinks it has since worked out. Confidence and attitudes were the key ingredients that have been honed. The Maryland loss occurred on a day when the system was off but the Irish mi~ht have won ifthe fine tuner made a few more adJustments. The system proved it was not infallible against UCLA when none of the nine players hit over 50 percent of their shots. 
The chances ofanother breakdown in the system like the UCLA game are very slim. From here on out its just a matter of whether the parts are good enough to make Notre Dame's system better than anyone else's. There is little doubt that talentwise, Notre Dame can be matched. But whether any other system is as good as Phelps' remains to be seen. 
nesday' s win over Oklahoma City, started Saturday night and scored ten points. Tripucka played 21 minutes1 and reported nothing beyond the expected stiffness. "It's pretty sore now, but I decided that I'd be able to 
h~.'~onight as soon as I got 
Phelps blamed Notre Dame's slow start on complacency. 'Tm happy that we are where we are now, but I don't want to get complacent. I think that's what happened to us in the first half. When we come out and shoot 15-for-41 i_n the first, something's wrong. We just had a mental adjustment talk at halftime and got things straightened out." 
The Irish coach said that he planned to vote for unbeaten Indiana State as the number one 
[continued on page 13] 
ND women cagers win, C(:lpture district crown 
by Bill Griffin Pumas had beaten the Irish just 
Sports Wn"ter ten days earlier on the same 
coun, and seemed ready to make 
The Notre Dame Women's it two in a row, as they opened up basketball team traveled to an early 10-2 lead. Rennselaer, Indiana this past Ten straight points brought the weekend, and returned home as Irish back into contention, and the newly crowned champions of they continued to hold their lead Indiana's nonhero district by through<;mt t.he first half, which virtue of their victories over ended wtth Notre Dame on top by Valparaiso, St. Mary's and St. 29-24. Joseph's. Notre Dame got into early foul 
There were no easy contests trouble in the second half, and St. for Coach Sharon Petro's team in Joseph's took advantage of the their quest for a place in the situation by tieing the Irish, upcommg state tournament. 59-59. A clutch jump shot by Thursday's opening round Trish McManus gave the Irish a resulted m a hard-fought three-61-59 lead with JUSt 15 seconds point win over a fired-up left, but St. Joseph's tied the Valparaiso squad. game up just before the f10al 
On Friday, the Irish were buzzer, sending the game into paired against St. Mary's, who overtime. had received an opening-round The lead changed hands bye. The Belles used a full-court frequently in the overtime press in the first half to harass period, and with just ten seconds the Irish into several turnovers, left St. Joseph's held the ball and and the Irish clung to a 25-24lead a 69-68lead. Maggie Lally came at halftime. out of nowhere to knock the ball 
The second half began with a away, and raced for the basket 13-2 Irish blitz, propelling them stride-for-stride with the Pumas to a 38-26 lead that they never defenders. relinquished. St. Mary's played Maggie's left-handed shot the Irish even the rest of the way, bounced off the rim, but Carolla but they could not close the gap, Cummings snared the rebound, and the Irish claimed a hara-faked once, then rolled in the fought 61-49 victory. game-winning shot with four 
The key to Notre Dame's ncks left on the clock. ­victory was a whopping 51-29 A desperation shot by St. Irish rebounding edge, 18 of Joseph's bounced off the rim, which were gathered 10 by Jane and for the first time all weekend, Politiski, who also led a balanced coaches Sharon Petro and Bo Irish scoring attack with 13 Scott could breathe a sigh of points. Maitha Kelly was the relief. For the second nigl:it in a highscorerforSt. Mary's with 19 row, Jane Politiski led the Irish pomts. with 23 points and 16 rebounds. 
In the tournament's final g~e The Irish women travel to played on Saturday, tlle IiiSh Terre Haute this weekend to were pitted against the tourna-compete in the Indiana State ment hosts, St. Joseph's. The-Basl{etball tournament. 


