------------.---------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LI6RAI« 
, , , Cage preview -pages 9-16 

Students, authorities combat off-campus crime 
Editor's note: This is the second in a two part series dealing with offcampus crime. Yesterday's installment dealt with the extent of off-campus cn.me, while today 's article investigates what the Univer­sity is doing about it and what students think should be done. 
by Mark Rust News Editor 
Shannon Neville is Notre Dame's Off-Campus Commis­sioner and a resident of Notre Dame Apartments, the scene of over 20 thefts so far this semester. She lived in the apartments last year and never heard of any break-ins: this year she has heard of robberies and assaults occuring all a­round her. 
"It seems like it's snowball­ing," she said yesterday, "it's reached extreme proportions. People just can't feel safe walking down the street any­time of day." 
It is clear that crime has increased at an alarming rate in the off-campus area known as census tract ten-the area bounded by Notre Dame Ave­nue, South Bend A venue and St. Louis St.-but what might be done about it is less clear. Representives of the University say they have no jurisdiction in census tract ·reo, even though their students live there. They say they have, however, in­creased their -effort to do what they can to "help students realize the seriousness of the situation and get the South Bend Police Department to give assistance,'' in the words of Bro. Ed. luther, assistant direc­tor of Housing. 
Luther, along with Fr. Mi­chael Heppen, Housing direct­or, recently met with Neville, two off-campus crime victims, a city councilman and the city's district attorney to discuss the situation and devise plans to aid off-campus students in protect­ing themselves against crime. 

Neville is satisfied with the University's reaction to the problem so far. Nick Schnee-· man, senior class .!?resident and an off-campus resident, is not. 
"It's really kind of a helpless feeling," Neville said. "You can tell people to watch out for themselves, but that's about all. " 
"That's not all that can be done,'' Schneeman said in an interview Monday. "The Uni­versity has a responsibility to protect their students. Theore­tically, off-campus students are still under the rules of du Lac 

and we've even had a case  of  
security coming  out  here  to  
serve  notice  to  a  student  to  


Militants 
threaten 
quick trials 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -The Moslem militants holding the 
U.S. Embassy said yesterday a trial of American hostages would become "inevitable" if the deposed shah is allowed to leave the United States for Mexico instead of being return­ed to Iran. 
A spokesman said a trial could begin "very soon" and hinted the estimated 50 host­ages also might be maltreated. 
The Itialian news agency Ansa reported that Ayaltollah Ruhol­lah Khomeini told a group of European reporters he intends to put President CArter on trial after trying the shah. 
Tens of thousands of Iranians filled the street in front of the embassy at about midnight Thursday. They prayed and chanted hymns, then faced the 

embassy and shouted in unison: appear before Dean Roemer for The University's plan for "allahu Akhbar! (God is 
some violation. And yet, when protecting off-campus students great)." it comes . to protecting the has thus far been limited to 
Doctors at New York Hospi­students out here, they throw advising them on safety proce­tal, where he has undergonetheir hands up in the air and say dures and organizing neighbor gallstone and cancer treatment,they can't do anything. They watches. But according to have told exiled Shah Moham­want us to obey their ruls but Schneeman, the neighbor mad Reza Pahlavi he can travel,they don't want responsiblity watch reflects how out of touch and a spokesman for the shahfor protecting us. That is a says he mi~ht return to hishypoctitical stance.'' 

Mexico res1dence within 10 
days. 
The new threats in the deep­ening crisis came after more

Mexico refuses re-entry to Shah than one million Iranians, chanting hatred for the "Yank­
MEXICO CITY (AP) -The government said yesterday night it will not let the Shah of Iran back into the country because the "SITUATION HAS CHANGED RADICALLY" IN THE U.S.-Iranian crisis and harboring the deposed ruler is not in Mexico's interest. 
''The government of Mexico will not be in a position to renew the visa of the Shah on Dec. 9," Foreign Minister 

Jorge  Castaneda  said  in  a  
statement  to  reporters,  so  it  
makes  ''no  sense  for  him  to  

return to Mexico.' 'Castaneda refused to answer reporter's questions. 
Doctors at the New York hospital where exiled Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi has been undergoing cancer treat­ment told him Wednesday he was free to travel, and there had been reports he would return soon to his rented man­sion at Cuernavaca, 50 miles south of here. 
Castaneda said Mexico's am­bassador to Washington, Hugo 
B. Margain, had informed the Shah's family and representa­tives of the decision. 

Neither the Shah nor his chief spokesman1 Robert Armao, was available for comment. Armao' s private phone had been disconnected. There also was no immediate comment from the 'V~·:,ite House. 
Castaneda's statement said: nother central element in the ''In the current moment the crisis is the person itself of the situation has changed radically. former shah of Iran. 
The world is facing a real ''Faced with this new situa­crisis, described by U.N. Secre­tion, the gov~rnment of Mexicotary General Mr. Kurt has had to ponder all theWaldheim as a threat to inter­~ssential factors of its duty tonational peace and security." 
protect before anything else the He said one element of the vital interests of the country. 

crisis was the holding of some 50 Americans at the U.S. ''It has reached the conclusion Embassy in Tehran, and "a-that it would be contrary to 
ees'' and their willingness to
those interests to renew the 
die, poured through Tehran's
tourist visa granted to the 

1 streets in a massive show of
: former shah. 
relisious devotion to Ayatollah
The shah arrived in Mexico 
Ruhollah Khomeini's holy war
June 10 on a visa good for six 
against America. 
months, but Foreign Ministry 

spokesmen had said earlier the The United States, trying a visa was goodonly for one entry new diplomatic tactic, asked the and exit. The visa has dated International Court of]ustice int June 6 and expires Dec. the Netherlands to order Iran to No information was available release the embassy hostages. 
on the shah's plans. 

Increased rape frequency uncovered 
by Pam Degnan 
Senior StaffReporter 
One rape and one attempted rape have occurred on Saint Mary's campus since 1969, according to Ton[ Kovatch, Director of SMC Security. But at least three additiona rapes have occurred on the campus in the past three years according to separate student sources, the Observer learned last night. 
The one rape, according to Kovatch, occurred last spring on the nature trail, a tract· of land on the perimeter of the campus. Jogging early on a Saturday morning, the girl strayed off her usual path and ventured into the nature area. There she was attacked by a youth carrying a hunting rifle who is suspected to be a high school student. 
"For four years we had followed her every day when she ran. Unfortunately, she went off her usual routine and jog~ed into the nature area. We just coddn't get to her in time," satd Kovatch. The attempted rape happened in 1977 in Holy Cross Hall when a man walked by the front desk and entered the girl's room. Struggling for a few minutes, the girl screamed and succeeded in frightening off her attacker. She alerted security and they caught him as he fled from the dorm. 
Two students confirmed last night that a rape did occur uehind the clubhouse three years age. The other two rapes happened in the vicinity of McCandless parking lot according to two separate student sources. 
Ten rapes involving Saint Mary's students have occurred on the perimeter of the Notre Dame campus since 1975, according to Susan Tamborini, Director of Holy Cross Hall and Coordinator of the ND-SMC Rape Awareness Committee. 
''An audit was done on our security last year and as far as I know the only rape that has happened is the jogging incident last year,'' commented Tamborini. 
Sr. Karol Jackoski, director of Residence Life, also said that only one rape has occurred in the past 10 years. "Ten rapes involving Saint Mary's girls have occurred but they for the most part ·happened on the Notre Dame campus. The only rape that has occurred on this campus was the one in the nature area and even that really happened on the outskirts of the campus,'' said 
Jackoski.  
Both Kovatch  and  Tamborini  Here  unavailable for  comment  
regarding the three  additional  rapes  as  disclosed  by separate  
student sources.  

1 ; 

~-=r=-..::nn-.ss:::.:r­
-· 
• 
~--------------~­

News in brief· 
Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 2 
McDonnell announces
U.S. files suit against 


University bars salesmen 
Iran in International Court 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The United States filed suit a~ainst Iran 
in an international ~ourt yesterday, appealing ~or t.r:n.media~e 
by T.M.]ackman McDonnell explained that only McDonnell said, "I have noti­action to free Amencan hostages held by Islamtc mtlttants m 
Senior StaffReporter 
non-profit and student groups fied them rwice that. we do not Tehran. In an urgent appeal to the International Court of are allowed to solicit on cam­allow solicitation here, and I Justice in The Hague, the Carter administration called for a American Mareketing Associ­pus, with rare exceptions made sent a letter to all the rectors ruling that the American hostages be freed and the grounds of 

ates, an Indianapolis-based at McDonnell's discretion. informing them of the situa­the U.S. Embassy in Tehran be cleared of the mob that seized 
firm which specializes in selling ''They (AMA) are violating tion." Nevertheless, meetingsthe compound on Nov. 4. 
housewares to college students the policy of selling goods were set up as recently as 
across the country, has been without a permit. This com­Monday in Badin and St. Ed's banned from further solicitation pany hasn't applied for one, Halls, but did not take place
Weather 

on the Notre Dame campus by and if they do I won't authorize Director of Student Activities it.'' (continued on page4) Snow flurries and cold through tomorrow with little additional 
Jim McDonnell. accumulation. High today near 30. Low tonight in the mid 
Apparently, AMA has been teens. High tommorrow in 
visltlng Notre Dame for several years, in violation of the Univ­versity's merchandising policy, according to McDonnell. 



Bridget's


CamP-_u_s__
Green Field 
Valpo Post Game Special 

Friday, No_vember 30, 1979 
parking 
25¢ DRAFTS 

12: I 'i p.m.--LECTURE* "new religious movements in black afri,a: hdp or hindrance to development?" dr. harold tur­
25¢ HOT DOGS

eliminated
ner. u of aberdeen, scotland, 1201 LIB. 
Students are asked to move 
Til 7pm

5: I) p.m. MASS AND DINNER· BULLA SHED 
their automobiles from Green 
Bridget's runs special~

Field to a proper lot by next
6:50p.m. DINNER AND DANCE sponsored by ladies ofnd, 
after each home game

Tuesday. The ND Security Department has asked students (dO p.m. MADRIGAL DINNER* REGINA NORTH 
MONOGRAM ROOM' ACC 
to move the cars so the area LOUNGE' SMC 
may be locked and closed to 7 p.m. SWIMMING' nd invitational relays, ROCKNE 
traffic. . MEMORIAL 
7 & 9 p.m. FILM, "marriage italian style," LIBRARY AUDI~ 
TORIUM 

U ofM spurs 
7, 9, II p.m. FILM' "what's up tiger lily?" ENGINEERING 
hostage
AUDITORIUM 

#:_~0 p.m. GALLERY OPENING* paintings and graphics qy 
reid mcintyre, ISIS GALLERY 
support 

8 p.m. THEATRE' "the heiress," O'LAUGHLIN AUDITO, 
Students from the University
RIUM' SMC 

of Maryland have started a nationwtde campaign to gain
8 p.m. MIDWEST BLUES FESTIVAL' STEPAN CENTER support for the freeing of American hostages in Iran.
9 p.m. bobbr stone and his rhythm rockers, NAZZ Notre Dame students are invit­ed to write to The Iraqian Mission, 34th floor United 
Nations, 622 3rd Avenue, New York, NY, 10012.
Saturday, December 1, 1979 
UO p.m. BASKETBALL' nd vs. valparaiso, ACC 2 p.m. FILM' "monru mudichu," LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 2 p.m. SWIMMING' nd vs. w. ontario, ROCKNE MEMO, 
The Observer 
RIAl. Night Editor: Rod Beard 
"':_~0 p.m. MADKIGAL DINNER' REGINA NORTH 
Asst. Nigth Editor: Steve 
LOUNGE • SMC 
Swank 

Copy Editor: Bruce Oakley7. 'J, II p.m. FILM' "singing in the rain," ENGINEERING 
News Editor: Mike Lewis 
AlJDITORIUM 

Editorial Layout: Dave Tho­mas, Ellen Gorman 
-; 1'>p.m. MIDWEST BLUES FESTIVAL· STEPAN CENTER 
Features Layout: Sal Granata Sports Layout: Mark Perry
H p.m. THEATRE' "the heiress," O'LAUGHLIN AUDITO, 
Typists: Tina Terlaak, Carol 
RILJM' SMC 

Cornwall, Laura Vasquez, Carol Schuback, Michelle 
l) p.m. hoffer & co. NAZZ 
Kelleher EMT's: Liz Huber, Beth [I must be nuts] Huffman 
NO Day Editor: Keith Melar­agno . SMC Day Editor: Kathy 
Sunday, December 2, 1979 
I p 111. MEETING' chess club, LAFORTUNE RATHSKEL, 
Domanico
1.1-:1{ 

Ad Design: Flo 0 'Connell, Barbara Pratt 
I p.m. MEETING" ham radio club, HAM RADIO SHACK 
Supplement Layout: Paul B. Mullaney
2 p.m. FILM' ''main tulsi tere angan ki," LIBRARY AUDI~ 
Photographer: Mike Bigley
TOHIUM 

2 run AD/vtiSSION DEGREE· knights ofcolumbus, K OF C 
The Oblernr [USPS 581 920) Is 
HALL ' 

published Monday through Friday n­
cept during exam and viiCitioll periods.
I 

The Observer is published by the
4::10 p.m. MASS· off-campus students, WALSH CHAPEL 
students of Notre 011111 and Saint Mary's College. Sublcriptielll nwy be 6::10 p.m. MADRIGAL DINNER* REGINA NORTH LOUNGE 
purchased for S20 per year IS11 per SMC 
1111111ttrl from The Observer. P.O. bex 
0. Notre ba1111, Indiana 411556. Secencl
7 p.m. NtEETING' world hunger coalition, CARROLL HALL 
class '=J' paid, Notre 011111, In­
diana . H p.rJJ. CONCERT* untversity chorus & orchestra, SACRED 
The Observer Is a member of tile Auoclated Pl'lll. All ~
HEART CHURCH 
STUDENT LEGAL VICES BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL c\ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11 am · 2 pm (IV. • F) other times by appointment WE HANDLE ALL I:INANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDE:NTS & STAff  
~C SOPHOMORE ~~~ CLASS SKI TRIP Fri. Feb 1st -Sun. Feb 3rd NUBS NOB& BOYNE HIGHLANDS $65 includes travel, motel, lift tickets 45 person limit ski rental, food extra $20 down payment by-Dec. lOth first come , first serve . contact Rob Verfurth 1865  
anSundQy Masses campus at Sacred Heart miniStry Church 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. John Van Wolvlear, c.s.c. 10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, c.s.c. 7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Austin Fleming ... 

rigllts lrt rtiiMd. 
• I

.'1.------~~~(-----~-----------···--------··---·~.--'..._._______.J 
The Observer 
For Camlxx:lia 
Groups collect thousands in aid 
draw on the funds and purchase the medical supplies they need in Thailand. 
] ohn Murphy, a sophom?re who initiated the Cambodtan effort, claimed he had no idea that the fundraising effort would be so successful. Mur­phy attributed the success to the extensive publicity the Cambodian situation has re­ceived coupled with the gravity of the situation. 
Murphy said he was motivated to aid the refugees after read­ing of their plight in Time magazine. The article featured pictures of emaciated mothers, with their starving children in their arms. Two other stu­dents, Lewis Riefschnieder and Thomas Reuter, aided Murphy in the organization of the project. When the three learn­ed that international aid was being accepted, they immedi­ately began the relief project. 
Commenting on the uncanny speed of the response, Murphy said, "You can't hold students' desire to help for a long time." Students solicited funds for four meals on November 15 and 16 and then continued their efforts in front ~f the stadium at the Clemson game. Murphy said he received ''complete coopera­tion'' from the dining hall personnel as well as stadium workers. "This is only the second time in Notre Dame history that a group has been 
' allowed to solicit at the stadium during a game,'' Murphy com­mented. Murphy. said the suddenness of the refugees' plight has spurred the philanthropy. "Compared to other places where there is mass starvation, Cambodia is a sudden occur­rence. They used to export rice and were a prosperous country five years ago," he explained. In 1975, the Chinese premier enforced stringent restrictions on Cambodian trade while reports detailing massacres of rwo to three million Cambodi­ans leaked out of Cambodia-. The Chinese government also curtailed Cambodian agricul­tural production. From 1975 until this fall anti-Cambodian nations have prevented groups such as Cam­bodian Response from giving aid to Cambodia. 
----------------------------., 
Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 3 


!f\NJ<&lilm~ 00111 
<tr001Jlit:!liSit~ 
will hold an 


ADMISSION DEGREE 

Sunday Dec. 2 2.:00pm Kof C Hall 
Jacket and Tie Requested 
All Catholic men wishing to ioin shoul~ attend 


&. 
HON 

SAT., DEC. 8th-Bpm 
STEPAN CENTER, NOTRE DAME 
hear a review of tloth fireworks' and honeytree 
altlums tly s.m.c. 's kelli con lin, 7:30, this saturday 
night (dec. 1) on tv channel 46. 

by Mary Fran Callahan StaffReporter 
Determined to aid the plight of Cambodian refugees, campus groups generated almost $11,000 in a forty eight period before Thanksgiving break. . 
Students Concerned for Cam­bodia collected over $4300 by soliciting contributions in front of the dining halls and the stadium during the Clemson weekend. Another group, Cambodian Response, raised almost $5000 by collecting do­nations in the dorms and spon­soring a fundraising mass cele­brated by Father Hesburgh. Approximately 1300 students ~r one quarter of on-campus rest­dents fasted for one dinner to raise an additional $1000. 
The $11 ,000 will be deposited in a bank account established by six Holy Cross sisters now working on the Thailand/Cam­bodia border. Sister Olivia Marie, a Holy Cross nun, residing at saint Mary's, is now awaiting correspondence from the six sisters. "They have found a place to live and are trying to establish a hospital,'' she said. Since the nuns are on the border, they can directly 

Eighteen chalices stolen from Sacred Heart, campus chapels 
by Michael Lewis Executive News Editor 

Eighteen chalices were stolen yesterday from chapels on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. The value of the items could not be estimated. 
Six "cllalices were taken from the crypt chapel at Sacred Heart Church after the 12: 10 Mass yesterday, according to Fr. Daniel Jenky, rector of the parish. All six belonged to priests, and have mo~tly per­sonal value, Jenky said. 
Twelve chalices and a cibo­rium were taken from the Church of Our Lady of Loretto Convent during the noon hour, according to one of the sisters at the convent. Most of the items belonged to the Convent. 
One of the chalices dated to 1887' and a few others were adorned with jewels, the sister said. 
She added that the sacristy was locked, and the thief had to force his way into the room. The cupboards were also locked, and bore signs of forced entry. 
Apparently the sacristy was not locked at ·Sacred Heart, although ] enky . said yesterday that the chapel workers have been instructed to keep the room locked at all times. There were no signs oi forced entry at the scene, he said. 
] enky expressed surprise that 
to fence a chalice," he said. "I don't .~now what they do with them .. 
He s~d that the items had 
mostly sentimental value, since chalices are usually gifts from 
parent. He added that one
priest had his chalice decorated with his parents' wedding 
bands after their death. It was one of the six stolen yesterday. Director of ND Security Glenn Terry said yesterday that his department was investigating the theft, bur had no leads at the time. He added that he will. 
notify the St. Joseph County. 
Mcintyre o.pens at 
Isis Gallery 
Paintings and graphics by Reid Mcintyre are featured in the Isis Gallery's new display, openmg torught at 7:30 in the Old Fieldhouse. 
•, 
Police in case the items show up 
in a Police investigation. Jenky, meanwhile, has notified an insurance company in hopes of receiving some recompense for the missing chalices. 
The SMC case has been turned over to the St. ] oseph County Police, and they are looking into the incident. The College has likewise notified an insurance company, but the sister noted that the items could not be replaced because of their historic value. 
Security at Sacred Heart is "tighter than it has ever been," ] enky said. A few chalices were stolen from the Church in ] uly, and]enky had a wall built to separate the crypt chapel from the main church. ] enky and Terry are now working to 
[continued on page 20] 
Roemer issues tree reniiiuler 
Dean of Students ] ames Roe­mer has issued a reminder to students that use of natural evergreen trees or branches is prohibited in campu_s buildings, because they constitute an to­creased fire hazard. 

chalices were stolen. "It's hard IIIII!'!!'!!'!!!!'!!'!!!!'!!'!!!!'!!'!!,.....""""'!!'!!'!!""""'!!'!!'!!""""'"""":=""""""'""""'......""""'......""""'........................!!'.!!!!!""""'....,
A 

Fiish s~ 
. . . 
ory

YflU can 
~~ 

Swallow! 
1:.,1.

All-you-can-eat.Iisb
all the time 
All-you-can-eat~ bar 
All-you-can-eat frog's legs on Mondays Open For Lunch -Noon Specials ­Platters, Sandwiches 
*Homemade Soups, Chowder, Cla~s, Shrimp, Lobster 
And your favorite cocktails 
52129 U.S. 31 No. S h B d
out en 


FISH OF STROH FAMILY RESTAURANT 
.............~-.. -..._" 
277-0103 

I 
,.. ' ~~, .··I "'" 
i 
1 1 
-~---------~------~-~ -~ ~-----~ 
• 

The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 4 


Nickie's 
Cocktail Hour 4-6pnt Today 
2 mixed drinks for the price of one 
1/4lb. burger and beer $1.25 1/2 lb. burger and beer $1. 75 


OFF-CAMPUS 




MASS 
(Held in the WALSH CHAPEL) 4:30pm DEC• 2nd SUNDAY 
A light dinner will be served afterwards 
• • • Salesfllen 
[continued from page2l 

because the salesman was not admitted to the campus. 
Ripple named to delegation 
Kenneth F. Ripple, associate professor of law at Notre Dame and director of the Thomas J. and Alberta White Center for Law, Government and Human Rights, has been named 'to the 12-member American delega­tion to the upcoming Anglo­American ] uducial Exchange. 
The delegation includes Su­preme Court justices, judges of other American courts and sev­eral members of the bar. It will spend several weeks in England where the members will ob­serve English judicial proceed­ings and participate In discus­sions with members of the British legal society. 
Whittenger was aware that "we're not welcome there," but he did not know that calls to the campus and salesmen's visits were continuing. Another spokesman said that the calls were a mistake due to the large number (300) of employees who make them, and they would stop soon. 
The company operates five different subsidiaries: ] ean Linn, Mariac, Petura, Matdine and Andrian. Representatives from the firm telephone college students at schools all over the country, asking the students who are selected at random to set up a meeting at. whi.ch a traveling salesman w1ll g1ve a presentation on ''Life After College.'' 
In return, the student organ­izer, if he ag~ees, will sup-. posedly receUl-.,a w.tt:auon m Miami, although several stu­dents claim they were offered "an all-expense paid trip." However, a AMA spokesman clarified that what actually is offered is lodging for three days and two nights during the off-season. Additionally, all students-who attend the meeting receive free be~er mugs. When the presentation actually takes place, it is in reality a sales pitch for a set of housewares, pots and pans, dishes, ere., costing a total of !800. However, students need only pay a !20 down payment, can choose a deferred rayment plan, and can cance within 
[continued on page 22) 
Mardi Gras chairmen to meet 
There will be a meeting for all Mardi Gras hall raffle chairmen at 6:30 p.m. on the first floor of LaFortune this Sunday, Dec. 2. A collection 
will  be  made  of  all  money  
gathered thus  far  from  ticket  
sales.  



SMC sophs plan post-game party 
ND-SMC students, according to show, brunch, and two recep­
by Mary Agnes Carey 

Mary O'Keefe, SMC sopho­tions for a SMC student and her more class vice-president. parents.
Saint Mary's sophomore class ''By sponsoring a pizza party Students may apply for chair­will sponsor a pizza party in the after the ND-SMC women's manship ofSophomore Parent'sSMC snack bar after the ND­basketball game, we're trying Weekent committees, but mustSMC women's basketball game to promote the activities that submit their applications to thenext Tuesday. , take place on our own cam­Student Activltles Office by 3A small admission charge will pus," O'Keefe explained. Ac­p.m. today, according to Ninibe collected at the door of the cording to O'Keefe, other up­Stoll, Sophomore Parent'spizza party which is open to all coming events for sophomores Weekend chairman. 

include a booth at the SMC ·'Registration, champagne 'Christmas Bazaar Monday and pastry reception, photo­through Friday, from 10 a.m. to graphy, punch and cheese re­

Logan 

5 p.m. daily m Le Mans Hall, ception, dinner dance, mass, and Sophomore Parent's Week­and brunch committees still end, Frid::ry, Feb. 29, Saturday, need chairmen,'' Stoll explain­schedules March 1, and Sunday, March 2. ed. She also commented that 
Hair ribbons and assorted students should remind their candies will be sold at the parents to make hotel reserva­Christmas Bazaar booth, and tions now for the weekend.

dance 

proceeds will be donated to the Sophomores who wish to parti­SMC school charity . and to a cipate in the Sophomore Pa­
The Logan Center winter needy family in the South Bend rent's Weekend show may,dance on Friday from 7:30 to. area. according to Anita R~mker, IO:OOp.m. will be followed by ''The sponsorship of a needy show chairman. regular Saturday recreation . familv is also serving as a ''The show, entitled 'If They
from 9:00 to 11:30 a.rn.. sophomore class service project Could See Us Now,' still needs Volunteers are also needeJ to for this year," O'Keefe ex­singers, actors, and people to buy gifts for the upcoming plained. Tickets for Sophomore ass1st in the various crew areas. Christmas party. Anyone in­Parent's Weekend may. also be It's a great show and sopho­terested may call Walter at purchased at the booth for $50, mores should want to get3066 or Ed at 3479. whic~ 'include a dinner-dance, involved,'' she commented. 
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 5 
Pleads reconciliation • • • • ••Coming next week:. •• • •.• •
• 
•


John Paul visits m.oslem. Turkey : • St. Mary's Annual •• 
by jane kirby 

Pope John Paul 11 is visiting Turkey Nov. 28 through Dec. 1 to make final preparations with Eastern Orthodox Church Pat­riarch Dimitrios I for the up­coming formal dialogues on reunification of the two church­es. 
Fr. Edward Kilmartin, pro­fessor of theology at Notre Dame, offered his insights into the matter in an interview yesterday. Fr. Kilmartin has servd as executive secretary of the U.S. Bishops' Committee for Dialogue with the Orthodox Churches since it was formed in 1965. The U.S. bilateralconsul­ations are the only such formal rift culminated in the Schism of 1054 in which the Latin dele­gate to Constantinople and the Eastern patriarch there excom­municated each other. The climax came in 1204 when Latin Crusaders from Germany sack­ed Constantinople under the banner of the cross and forced the patriarch to flee to Nicaea. 
dialogues on a national level in is our neighbors who are rip­ing in The Observer and 35the world. He is also the author ping us off," Schneeman said. students came, which I thoughtof a new book entitled, Toward ''There are some good people was good but not as good as it
Reunion: The Roman Catholic 
living in the neighborhood. . could've been. I don't know
and Orthodox Churches, pub­
.they are very helpful. But we what the problem is, but it maylished this year by the Paulist have participated in neighbor­just be one of communication.''
Press. 

hood watches in the past and ''] ust telling people how toCommenting on the back­they haven't worked." protect themselves isn't anyground of the separation bet­Not much seems to work. good," Scheeman observed. 
ween the churches, Fr. Kilmar­Luther related a police plan to ''Look, most of these kids outtin noted that the bishop at heavily patrol the St. Louis here come from white suburbia­Constantinople (Istanbul) be­Street and Notre Dame Ave. they are naive. It is not in their came an overseer of Eastern areas on Thanksgiving weekend nature to constantly look out forchurches in the year 381. The which did not prevent two robbery or mugging. No matterpatriarchate at Constantinople thefts from occuring that week­how much you warn people youwas in union with that in Rome end. can't change people's nature infor about 1000 years, but grad­''Those robberies point out one year, which is how longually cultural differences caus­that even when police are in the they generally live out here."
ed the patriarchates of the East area crime will still happen." Most students are aware thatand West to drift apart. This 
Because the South Bend Pol­they are a natural tar{l;et for ice have rejected the idea of thieves, and that their hfestyle Notre Dame Security patrolling does not easily afford protec­the area, Luther's options are tion. Some say they see police
Bourdeaux 

few. patrolling often; others claim 
the University is with the tensions at census tract ten. · "Neighbor'-watches aren't any good because sometimes it 
Fr. Kilmartin pointed out that the excommunications in 1054 were directed at indivi­duals and not at each church. "Neither declared the other church heretical,'' as the Rom­an Catholics and Protestants did, he added. ''The two just 
(continued on page BJ 

• • • Crime 
campus students for just before the Thanksgiving Break to dis­cuss ways of making their houses and apartments safe," Luther said. "We sent out flyers and publicised the meet­
• 



:·cHRISTMAS BAZAAR: :• Dec. 3-7 lOam-5pm •: ······························' 
Speaking of Sports FREE PIZZA 
Sunday Night 9 pm 64 

'(..........,---.,.~~~...__.."""""""""'~____.,;·;;;;;..........,..,.,..._._~..._._~....,...............,............> 
NATURAL FOODS RESTAURANT 
On Riverhead Plaza .Soda Foutain, Juice Bar 
, ~ 
303 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST. 
Carry-Out Menu
South Bend, In. 46601 ,
Full Service Dining
Phone 288-1911 
,


Student Special 
, 
,



,-------, 
,
,
1$1°0 OFF I
I any -dinner after 5 pm I 
**** I
I Offer good with ·I 
L 
Coupon and Student ID 1 

----------------· Open: Mon. thru Thurs. 10 am-8 pm Fri. and Sat. 10 am . 9 pm 
"I called a meeting of off­
[continued on page 21] ' ~------------iiiiiii---------:11 
on U.S.S.R. 
Fr. Michael Bourdeaux, founder of Great Britain's Kes­ton College and a former stu­dent at Moscow University, will discuss ''Religious Repression in the Soviet Union" taatiHMV at 3' ;25 p.m. in Room 110 of the LAW Building. 
Keston College is the home of the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism established in 1969. Bourdeaux also serves as honorary presi­dent of Kestons American as­sociate, the Society for the Study of Religion Under Com­munism at Wheaton, Ill. 
He is the author of several books on religious life in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, including "Opium of the People," "Young Chris­tians in Russia," "Faith on Trial in Russia" and "Land of Crosses," a study of Lithuanian religious life. 
Bourdeaux is a graduate of Oxford University and has lec­tured on the topic of religious repression in several areas of the world. He has scheduled talks during his current U.S. tour in New York, Washington, D.C., and Chicago. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Center for the Study of Human Rights and is open to the public. 
BD-8110 '.fHBA'.fU presents 
"lhe Heiress' 
Bov IO,Decl·Dec &,?,8 
8 pm 

O'Loughlin Aud. .ft. Mary's &84-4176 



Editorials 
Midwest Blues Festival 
For the eighth consecutive year the largest single gathering of bluesmen held in the miowest will take place this weekend in Stepan Center. And for the eighth consecutive year, the \iidwest Blues Festival will be ignored by the \ast majority of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's studcm body. 
Though the Blues Festival has consistently brought the finest music in fhe blues tradition to Notre Dame, having featured such blues luminaries as Muddy Waters, Son Seals, Albert Kin~. and John Lee Hooker over the years, the festival has gone largely unappreciated by the ND/SMC community for at least as long as I ha \'t' been here. A rrendance in general has been fairly encouraging, but the percentage of MD/SMC students who attend has been dispwponionately small considering the Festi­val'.., location. 
"I don't know why that is," said a friend of mi~>~e who is a veteran of three Blues Festivals, "<'sp<Tially when students consistently complain about the lack of things to do in South Bend and on campus. People call South Bend a cultural
r 
vacuum, and then when almost one-hundred
r 
}'<'ars of native American culture is dropped in
r 
th<"ir laps, they respond by ignoring ir."
r 
The Notre Dame social scene is not always
r 
what we would like it to be and, too often, we fall 
into a rut which includes only studying., 
drinking, and an occasional basketball or
r 
football game. The Blues Festival provides
r
, something different, an opportunity for students to stT the finest Blues musicians in the country in an extremely informal setting. We are all familiar with the impersonal, often arousrically troublesome concerts held at larger ar<"nas like the ACC. Stepan Center, however, provides for a more casual and intimate setting both because of irs small size, and the fact that the audience is encouraged to bring blankets 
Michael Onufrak 
and bean bag chairs in which to lounge about the stage. The result is a unique concert atmosphere with the average concert-goer no more than a few yards from the stage seated amongst a group of friends--quite a difference from being packed into a bleacher seat in the back of a large arena. 
And, in these financially tight times, the Blues Festival is a great deal for students. A festival pas!t-sell for only $10 for both nights which mcludes seven stellar blues acts. When compared to the most recent Notre Dame concert where tickets were as much as $12.50 a piece, the Festival is all the more the bargain. 
What's more, the Blues is one of the most enduring and original of all forms of music today. One of the ft'lfN truly native American art 
forms, the Blues have been with us SI~ce 
before the turn of the century. Many art!sts 
who are currently at the top o! other musical 
fields like jazz or rock 'n roll. eit~er began as 
blues artists, or were heavily mfluenced by 
blues performers. Even a stranger to t.he blues 
can easily pick out the eleme~~s of Jazz and 
rock inherent in the blues tradltlon. 
If you've been turned off by today's disco and popular music, the blues are definitely for you. Blues music contains nothing that reeks of commerciality or the emptiness that we find so often in much opoular music. What it does contain is the best elements of rock and jazz, plus an innate "blues" quality found only in the blues itself. You can't dance to the blues, but you sure can get into it. 
So this weekend, when you're trying to decide what to do , opt for something different and unusual, the Bl.~es Festival. It begins tonight at 8 p.m. · wnh Blues from the Bayou," and comrnucs tomorrow night with the "Chicago Blu<"s" at 7: I 5 in Stepan Center. 

~ \ .,__, :~~M¥t . ;,. ·_;x,~·:·.:··.··~··:~:0ffff.:~.~-·.·.::.. 0Fi· 
--~­
Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 6 


P.O.BoxQ 
Council for 
the Retarded 
To the ND!SMC Community: 
It is extremely difficult to find the appropriate words of thanks for your contribution of Clemson football tickets to the Council for the Retarded and Big Brothers/Big Sisters. Your kindness enabled 200 children from the South Bend Commun­ity to experience something out of the ordinary and quite spec­ial to them. If one coudl only see their smiles and hear their laughter, the value of your gift would be obvious. 
We would also like to thank the Notre Dame cheerleaders and football players Kevin Hart, Rusty Lisch, Joe Unis, John Scully, and Dave Waymer for taking time out for our kids. Your involvement added much to their enthusiasm and fun. 
Thanks should also be exten­ded to ticket manager Mike Busick and company for their time and efforts. Indeed, the day went smoothly only be­cause of your help. 
·. 


The .fnirror reflecting change 
The front pase of the news­paper is a m1rror and it is crystal clear. A grotesque visage leers out, looks one straight in the eye, and gives a knowing wink. With a scream of horror, I rip the paper to shreds and shudder at the thought of ever looking myself 
1 in the face again. 
The Observer, as other news­papers, is a reflection of the times and of ourselves, of how we see the world. First Iran, then Nicaragua, El Salvador, Bolivia and now Iran again--the world literally screams with pain and rage, and we look on with detachment. (Like Pilate we too wash out hands, and like 
Lady  MacBeth  we  will  never  
stop.)  
Wt  see  the  world  with  a  

morbid curiosity, watch with a grim fascination. Our concern goes no deeper than the titilla­ting headlines: ''with guns blazing Jets scatter protesters.'' (That was from The Observer, I'm sure you have your own favorites.) I say our concern goes no farther than violence. Do you deny it? 
When was the last article· that you read on Nicaragua dated? When was the last time The Observer printed an article on Nicaragua? We had no end of coverage when there was fight­ins, when blood was being spdled, but now that they are trying to rebuild their nation-­that for which they fought--we ignore them. Jaded almost beyond belief, we turned to El Salvador and then to Bolivia. 
Do you torget these articles? It is because after these coun­tries' brief spurts of violence, we have forgotten them. Do you wonder why the Iranians have seized our diplomats? It is the only way that they could get the U.S. and indeed the world 
to listen to their complaints. If the newspapers will only cover the "sensational," how do you expect those with grievances to act? 
Perhaps you will have it the other way, that as the news­paper~. ace our eyes and ears, our mode of perceiving the world, it is thev and not we who are culpable. ·(fhe mirror then is distorted and we are to danger of. forgetting who we are.) Perhaps I am•·too hasty in 
drawing my conclusion, per­haps we do care about others· and our interest does go beyond curiosity and pity. But ifthat is the case, we cannot permit our newspapers to continue as they have: we must make our con· cern apparent. 
The Observer must be a focal point of that concern. We have the opportunity as students to make a change in our newspa­per. (We could not have the same chance to change, say, the Wall Street Journal, no matter how much some of us would like that opportunity.) 
Towards that end I have three suggestions: First, The Observer must articulate a co­herent set of values and then print the news in accordance with those values. Let us make no pretense of "objectivity"; selection implies values. 
Second, The 06server must find alternate sources of news; the AP wire service is obviously inadequate. The National 

Paul Lauer 
Catholic Reporter and In These Times are two available sources that come to .mipd. Thjrd, the Notre Dame~ community could both volunteer and respond to solicitations by the staff with articles analyzing or filling in 
the background of the current event. Students in economics and government doing course work that would be especially pertinent, but all disciplines in this day and age would have somethmg to say. Interviews with professors and visiting lecturers are another way of providing meaningful news coverage; there has been too little of it. 
I would have the mirror reflect the face of humanity-­one troubled and in pain, one moved and resolute to act. 
I would like The Observer to respond to my suggestions-­perhaps the best way would be by announcing a meeting for all eersons interested in trying to define how the news can best be covered. Surely an open dialogue is the best way we can respond to this serious prob­lem. 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor·in·chief ....... .Rosemary Mills represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ......... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .................Mike Shields and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen Buddy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor .... .... Margie Brassil 
Finally. we would like to reserve a special thanks for our volunteers who make this pro­gram "tick." It's gifted people like. you who make our job much easier. 
Walter Bankowski, EdLoughery Council for the Retarded 
Student responds in favor of Core Course 
Dear Editor: 

I wish to respond to the letter of Nov. 16 criticizing the Arts and Letters core course, "Ideas, Values, and Images." I agree that the title -undoub­tedly the product of some administrator indulging his fancy -is so vague as to be meaningless, but the rest of the twelve sophomores' arguments agains the class are unf~~~~~~d. 
How can they say that the authors of the required books are not ''respected'' when the reading list mcludes works by Loren Eiseley, Arthur Okun, Thomas Kuhn, and Pope Paul VI? After reading Equality and Efficiency, the most delightful book on economics one could hope to find, and sampling Eiseley's gorgeous prose style in The Firmament of Time, how can they say that the texts are poorly written? The writers do repeat themselves, but this speeds the reading and makes their ideas lucid and easy to remember. Failure by a class to animatedly discuss these ideas reflects only on the limitations of the imagination and enthu­siasm of its individual mem­
bers.  
The  course  is  not  ''irrele­ 
vant.''  The  topics  it  covers  
range  from  philosophy  and  

religion to science and politics. If the twelve sophomores find thr~se irrelevant, they must live in a vacuum. 
I enjoy the class--a surprise to me. It gives me the rare opportunity to express my opin­ions, and I can relax with the reading because the emphasis is on assimilating general infor­Jtlation, not on memorizing ~pecific details. 
Name Withheld 
Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor ..... ......... Doug Christian 
Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland Production Manager ..... ~n McGrath Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy Controller .................. Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ... ...Greg Hedges 
administration of either institution. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 



-The Observer_ 
-~-~~---~-­
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 7 


Wake Up, America 
Now that everyone has returned from Thanks­giving, and it is essential that we be thankful, let us look at wh:ir we are being thankful for, and a~k whether we want future generations to be thankful for the same things. 
As Americans. we have such an easy life--we nt well we live in warmth, we have lighting, we h~ve sa'nitary conditions which alleviate wide spread communicable diseases,_ we h~ve edu~a­tion and we even have domestic devtces whtch allo~ us to do as little as possible. 
In the past few month~ Atlantic Ri~hfield has been showing commercials ponraytng Uncle 
' Sam either ineptly jumping a dozen barrels_ of oil on icc, or standing on a scale. obvtously indicating his obesity. What he remtn~s one of is a youthful athlete who has reached hts goal ?f being the best, and start~ ~o slac~ off on hts training. Well America, thts ts the ttme for us. to start getting back into shape. The problem with us is that we don't want to be the best bad enough. We want the nice extras that co~~ with being the best, but we no longer are wtlltng to work for them. In a n:n·nt campaign speech Ronald Reagan told a group of interested supporters that the United States should not settle for less, but ..;h~>~ld try ro maintain our present level or 
Christopher Lyons 

achteve even more. Well, everyone wants what he is ~uggcsting, but those increases have to be ·.;teached through economics and political train­ing, and training means sacrifices. When someone trains for a goal--either athletic, 
economic, or social--one must work hard. 
The way we are living now is neithc;r 
intelligent nor ethical. We can see by eocnomtc 
indicators and by political uprising that we are 
no longer very intelligent or respected. People 
of other nations despise us because of our 
arrogant waste and lackadaisical intere~t in 
anything other than our own pleasure. EthiCally 
we must sec ourselves in an objective light. We 
waste so much food, while people starve 
worldwide; we enjoy ourselves so much we no 
longer have a worthwhile religiosity; we do so 
much for ourselves that internationally we are 
envisioned as 'spoiled pigs. If we donor remedy 
this situation we will be taken to the slaughter 
house and eliminated. 
So America, let's start training now, let's eat 
everything we take, be conscious of energr 
wastes, be willing to commit ourselves to 
projects and goals that will hurt a little, ~nd 
finally, let's tnm down that gluttonous wasteltne 
and build firm, ethical, and respectable pro­
grams for future generations . 

Carter vs. Kennedy in style 
It appears that the battle 
between President Jimmy 
Carter and Senator Edward 
Kennedy for the Democratic 
nomination will be contested 
more on style than on sub­
stance. This situation is unfor­
tunate, because Carter and 
Kennedy differ on a number of 
important issues. Energy 
policy is a good example of their ,differences. Although most people do not realize it, Carter and Kennedy are offering alter­native strategies for coping with our nation's current e~ergy mess.. 
Both Kennedy and· Carter 
have stressed the importance of 
energy conservation. Both of 
them realize that a country with 
six percent of the world's . population cannot continue to use one-third of the world's resources. Unfortunately, it ~does not appear that•i both 'candidates know how to imple­ment a conservation program. 
Besides raising oil prices and encouraging people to turn down their thermostats, Pres­ident Carter has done little to encourage conservation. The President wants to spend billions on a synthetic fuels prugram, but he does not want to spend the money necessary for an effective conservation program. His biggest program ·Is a fifteen percent tax credit for homeowners who install insula­tion. A tax credit for business­es that make energy efficiency investments has also been passed. For these programs to work, the Department of Energy (DOE) must promote 
tax credits and make it easier for people to obtain them. Instead, Carter's DOE has done nothing, and the programs have fallen short of expectations. 
Senator Kennedy seems to understand what is necessary for an effective conservation program. Kennedy believes that for any home insulation program to work, ho~eowners must be able to obtatn grants quickly and easily. He also feels that we· must offer finan­cial incentives to companies that. invest in energy efficient 
buildings  and  i~dustrial  pro­ 
cesses.  Most  Importantly,  
Kennedy  believes  that  any  

energy conservation program must be well promoted in order to work. Already, Kennedy is trying to implement his ideas. He cosponsored t~e E~ergy Productivity Act, a b1ll wh1ch IS currently movifijCtlftough the 
Senate Energy Committee. 
Another area ot contrast bet­ween Caner and Kennedy is their approach towar~s dealing 
with the oil compames. Few people realize the awesome power that the oil companies possess in our economy. The largest oil companies generate more revenue than most nations. Eight ?f th.e fourte.en biggest corporations tn Amenca are oil firms. As big as they are now the oil companies are going to get even bigger, as they are using their reco~d profits to buy up other firms tn all areas of our economy. 
President Carter talks tough with Big Oil, but he has not 
Pat Toomey 
backed up his wurds with tollgh actions. -As columnist Jack Anderson said during his recent visit to Notre Dame, "The oil companies have never done better than they have under Carter." A quick examination of recent oil company profits will confirm Anderson's assess­ment. The President lifted price controls on gasoline and home heating oil without first getting a windfall profits tax passed. He has also taken no steps to _prevent oil companies from buymg other firms. 
Senator Kennedy is doing more than just talking tough with. Big Oil. Because he realizes the effect unregulated heating oil prices will have on homeowners this winter, he wants to reimpose price controls on home heating oil. Kennedy has also expressed his opposition to deregulation of gasolir.~ prices unless a satis­factory windfall profits tax is passed. Since the Senate does not seem willing to pass a satisfactory windfall profits tax (oil companies make a lot of campaign contributions.~, Kennedy's position is very important. Kennedy has also proposed a bill prohibiting oil companies from merging with other· firms holding over $100 million in assets. · 
Overall, it appears that if Carter is reelected, the major oil companies will continue to 'make much of America's energy policy. Kennedy does not have all the answers, but he offers hope of new direction in . energy policy. 






DOOIISBUBY 
o/J Gl3'fot~~ 
DOONESBURY 
WASHINGTON--There was a fear when the Freedom of Information Act was passed that government officials would not put anythins: into writing any more. Happtly this has not been the case. Since a govern­ment servant now knows that his actions could be questioned by anyone, he is putting n.ore and more of his decisions on paper to protect himself. 
My source for this is Wilfred Amberduke who works in a federal agency and is charged with writing up memoranda and 
regulations for his supervisor. 
He told me, ''The first thing you have to do when writing a government directive is to fi­gure out how you can say something so no one will under­stand it. In this way a supervisor will be covered in case someone questions his decision. The more obtuse the communication, the happier your boss will be." 
''And your role is to please your supervisor?" . 
''That's the only role any of us in the government has," he said. "If you can protect your supervisor's job, you will be considered a loyal team player subject to praise and promo­tion. qne of the keys t~ ~his is to dev1se ways of wnttng a directive over his signature which makes no sense to any­one who reads it." 
"How do you manage to do this?" I asked. 
"It's not easy. The main trick, of course, is to write long. You can create a lot more confusion in a 10-page memo than in one which only takes up five pages. 
Before I learned the system, I wrote a one-page directive for my boss which was so clear and concise that even he could understand it. He threw it back at me and said, 'Amberduke, vou 're after my job."' 

by Garry Trudeau 
IlL JUST8U Y(}(} 8& RtA50N­
HAV&! ww_, YOU CAN ABU, MAN. 
FO!?G&T IT! NOW, I /1.1& C/1JW HAV£3 A PtAN£3 YOIJI< WJN!?f 
70 cATOf. TO lAlOR!<! I \ 
Art Buchwald 
"Could you give me an ex­
ample of how you fill up the 
pages of a government direc­
tive?" 
"all right. Suppose we want to 
put out a directive which says 
that'River restaurants will not 
contaminate river waters.' The 
first thing we would do would 
be to define a river. Then we 
would spell out the characteris­
tics of a restaurant. We would 
devote several paragraphs to 
the meaning of contamination, 
and finally we would give the 
accepted definition of water. 
''After that we would cross­
reference it with other direc­
tives spelling out the limitations 
and strictures thereof. If the 
river restaurant also bordered a 
highway, it would be subject to 
Paragraph 12, Section A, of the 
Clean Highway Act, unless i; 
was located over a 5,000-foot 
elevation, in which case said 
restaurant would be gc-verned 
by Paragraphs 145 and 146 of 
the Clean Air Act as well, 
except in the case of seafood 
restaurants and drive-ins. 
''The more you can cite other 
regulations the more chance 
you have of covering .your own 
tail. 
"The other thing, of cour;;e, is 
to be redundant. We in the directive business have discov­. ered if your boss liked it once 
he'll love it the second time." 
"But suppose the thing 
doesn't make any sense at all?'' 
I asked. 
"Ifit doesn't make any sense to 
anybody--then it will make 
sense to your supervisor.'' 
"I guess it requires a special 
talent to take a simple idea and 
screw it up so badly that it is 
unintelligible to anyone who 
reads English." 
''Who said you have to write a 
government directive in En­
glish?'' 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 


The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979-page 8 
drifted apart.'' fist in 1967. died. ''Both Papal visits were bishops want women to have a 
The first attempts at reunifi­''The question is, why is the partially motivated to support a larger role, including pastoralcation of the two churches were Pope gomg to Turkey?" Fr. suffering communiry," he said. ministry. Although women the first and second Councils of Kilmartin said, noting the re­The key issue that the pope comprise about nearly half of 
Nicases, convened in 325 and cent surge of Moslem religious himself recognizes as separat­both churchs, Fr. Kilmartin 787 respectively. Some differ­vanaticism in that country as ing the two churches is the role ·said that the Orthodox are ences were smoothed over, well as all over Islam. of the bishop ofRome in the life adamant that women are subor­
such as setting the date for ''The Latin church is more of the church. The Orthodox dinate to men by nature and 
Easter and settling a doctrinal directly responsible for the church does not recognized the should not hold leadership posi­dispute over the divinity of break in 1054," he suggested pope's primacy over all church­tions in the church and society.Jesus; however the two church­as a possible answer to his es and does not believe he has "This dialogue will have a 
es were not reunited. It was not question. "And they're the the right to interfere in local significant impact on the defini­until December 7,1965 that ones who sacked Constantin­church affairs, especially in his tive role of women in the 
Pope Paul VI and Patriarch ople." right to nominate bishops. Western Church," he state, Athenagoras I in a landmark But Fr. Kilmartin believes "First they are going to talk recognizing that the Orthodox move mutually lifted the ex­that there are serious political about the Lord's Supper and will expect a statement from the communications of 1054, which undertones behind the Pope's other sacraments," Fr. Kilmar­Roman Catholics on the issue.
• • • Pope 

left the way open for dialogues. trip to Turkey--as he believes tin said, noting that these were Fr. Kilmartin recognized cul­
On December 14, 1975 in the there were in 1967. points of agreement between tural differences as a major t Sistine Chapel, a representative ''I think he wants to show the the two churches and thus good source of conflict from the of the Orthodox Patriarch an­Turks that the Christian world starting points. Orthodox point of view. ''Theynounced the establishment of is concerned, so that the Turks The orthodox are planning a fear we are too rationalistic and an international theological won't crusk the patriarchate synod of all independent ortho­have lost an appreciation of the commission for dialogue with there.'' He said that there are dox are planning a synod of all mystery of Chnst,'' he said. Rome. Pope Paul VI responded only 5,000 to 7,000 Greek independent orthodox churches ''Also, in the Orthodox by kneeling and washing the Orthodox left in Turkey; they to discuss the basic issues, church there are many rabid feet of the delegate. Since then have lost their seminary, are including their approach to anti Roman Catholics among 
an agenda and topics have been heavily taxed, and fear for their Roman Catholicism as a whole. the monks and others," he set. The pope's visit to Turkey lives. An important question is ex.­said, adding that in the Roman this week is to make the final ''They remeber how the pected to be that of the role of Catholic and Eastern Rites he arrangements for the formal Turks massacred the Christian women in the church. knew of no strong opposition to dialogue. Armenians,'' Fr. Kilmartin While officially both church­the union. "But this can be over 
r !continued from page 5) Pope John Paul is only the stated, referring to the forced es have identical positions on come with talking,'' he said 
second pope in history to visit desert march of 1913-14 in the issue, in roman Catholicism confidently.r Istanbul; Pope Paul VI was the which 1. 5 million Armenians a lot of theologians, clergy and ''There will be enormous 
r r 
r eve~ 
on lsi 
JEFFERSON STARSHIP Freedom at Point Zero 


118uy II Once. r..joy II A Lifelime. Reconlecl Music Is Yo.. Best r..tedainment Value!' 


The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
local struggles, especially with bigotry" he commented, ad­ding that he expected the problems to be worse there than here. 
Fr. Kilmartin foresees the immediate effects of the dialo­gues here to be an effort by Roman bishops to introduce clergy to Eastern liturgy and spintuality in order to combat "a large amount of abysmal ignorance among church lead­ers" as well as to educate university campuses and par­ishes on the "beautiful tradi: tion of the east.'' 
Student Players seek 
director 
by Kelli Flint StaffReporter 

The Student Players, a self­run theater troupe, are looking for a director for their next 
production,  which  is  due  to  
open in early March.  
According  to  David  Ellison,  

Cultural Arts commissioner and head of the Student Players, the prospective director should be someone with "artistic experi­ence and a belief in theater as education." • 
"We're looking for a non­theater major with a love for theater,'' he added. 
''The director will be able to choose the show he directs this year," Ellison said. "In the past, the commissioner selected both the director and the show. We changed the procedure to enable directors to work with a play that they feel comfortable with. We only stipulate that the play be either light comedy or drama." 
The focus of the Student Players is "alternative the­ater.'' ''Our trou(>e performs lighter shows, less mtense than the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's theater, but equally profes­sional," Ellison noted. 
The Student Players is an autonomous part of the Student Union whose pur}:mse is to give many dire,etors, actors, and technicians/ i:he opportunity to gain experience in theater. 
Applications for director of the upcoming play are being ac­cepted at the Studeot Union offices. 


,r 
r r r r r r r 
r 
r 
r 
·---­

The Irish Extra· Friday, November 30, 1979-page 10 
---~--~--­


Tracy jackson [left], Orlandc Woolridge [center] and Kelly Tnpucka make up Notre Dame's quick and agressive front line. 
Fifth-ranked Irish open tomorrow 
by Paul Mullaney senior year, and will help out immedi­forward. ) ackson from Silver Spring, from New Kensington, Pa., will play at 
Assistant Sports Editor ately. Md., was the second..feading scorer forward. He averaged 27 points and 15 
Walk-on guards Tim Healy, from Fort last year, hitting 11.7 per game. rebounds as a high school All-Ameri­
Lauderdale, and Marc Kelly, from can last year. 
Coach Digger Phelps' 1979-80 Notre At center, Orlando Woolridge will fill 
LaCrescenta, Calif., have gained valu­
Dame basketball team, after defeating the spot that was vacated by the Classmate Tim Andree, 6-10 from
able experience and are ready to help
the Soviet Union National team on graduation of both Bruce Flowers and Birmingham, Mich., will provide
out in key situations. Junior walk-on
November 15, opens its regular-season Bill Laimbeer. Woolridge, a starting depth in the pivot. He averaged 22.4
Kevin Hawkins, from Los Angeles,
campaign tomorrow at the ACC forward last year, averaged 11.0 ppg. pomts and 14. 1 rebounds at Brother
will swing between guard and forward, 
against Valparaiso. Tip-off is slated The innovative dunk expert addet ~i, _ last year. 
primarily playing the frontcourt. 
for 1:30 p.m. rou~hly 20 pounds to his 6-9 frame
All-American forward Kelly Tri­''Finesse will be our asset at the
dunng the off-season, and gives the

While Notre Dame fans are anxious pucka, a 6-7 junior, will head the front center position," says Phelps. "we
Irish a much faster attack in the pivot.

to see the Irish in a heavy favorite's court. Last year's leading scorer, the might not be able to push people
Junior Gilbert Salinas, a 6-11 native

role against Valpo, they are more resident of Essex Fells, Nj·· scored around as much as we'd ltke to 
excited about the beginning of a of San Antonio, Texas, heads Notre
14.3 points and rebounde at a 4.3 underneath, but we'll be in there 
campaign in which thetr heroes are Dame's substitutes on the front line.
clip. He scored 35 points against the fighting. We'll have to work on 
expected to be among the best tea~s Soviets, and hauled down 12 rebounds He averaged 4.6 points in eight positioning ourselves on rebounds.'' 
in the country. Notre Dame ts contests a year ago. 
in that game. The Irish will next host Iowa State oncurrently ranked fifth nationally. 
) unior Tracy Jackson, super-sub the Two freshmen add necessary depth Monday night, before travelling to Phelps benefits from nine returning last two years, will start at the other along the front line. Bill Varner. 6-7 Northwestern on Wednesday.
lettermen, four of whom held starting 
roles for last year's 24-6 squad. And 
Phelps, beginning his ninth season as 
head coach, acknowledges that the 
talent is there. 
ND transplants 'the Tree 'at center 
"We're as good as anyone in the 
country," he insists. "The majority of this team has been on the best two by Frank LaGrotta a convinc;ing 20-point win. You might building new mu~des. teams in Notre Dame history --one a Sports Writer say the slam was worth two on the "When I found out the coaches' national "finalist and one a regional scoreboard but 20 on the court, and plans, I went to ·weight coach Pete finalist. The next step is to win it.'' With a little more than ten minutes you have to wonder what Irish coach Broccoletti, and he rook good' care of 
rema1nmg in a basketball game Digger Phelps thought about the me," says Woolridge. And when you
The most experienced of this year's between Notre Dame and Dayton, the whole thing. look at the "new Orlando," it all 
squad are co-captain guards Rich Irish cling tenuously ro a four-point "When you've got a player who can sounds like an undersrarem~nt,
Branning and Bill Hanzlik. Branning, lead. When a Dayton jump shot do the thmgs Orlando can, the best because he's 15 pounds heavier, and 
a senior from Huntington Beach, misses the rim, Notre Dame center Bill thLng to do is let him play," he vows, "just a li~tle bit quicker."
Calif., swred 10.2 points per contest Laimbeer comes down with the commenced Phellps, who nevertheless ''Oh yeah, the muscle made me 
last year while leading the Irish in rebound and spots teammate Orlando jumped ten feet off the bench when he faster,'' swears Woolridge. "I f~el 
assists with 106. He' II control the Woolridge streaking down the court. saw Woolridge's aerial exploits. stronger, quicker, and ! have twice as 
offense from the point. A perfect ourlet pass triggers a routine "He took a chance and it worked," much endurance.'' 
Hanzlik, also a senior, will miss the fast-break that should end with an smiled Phelps. "Luckily." And something else that should make first month of action due to a easy lay-up and two more Irish points. And if Irish fans are lucky, they' II see dunk-happy Irish fans smile. dislocated left index finger which Not quite. Oh, the pass was on target plenty more from the man they call "I think I've addcd close to two required surgery. The native ofBeloit, and Woolridge grabbed it easily, but "the Tree," as Woolridge enters his inches to my vertical jump," Wool­Wis., has been the squad's top this time No. 32 didn't even consider a junior season playing a new position ridge reveals. "Pete gave me the defensive player in each of the last two lay-up. that he calls "a challenge I look exercises for my legs to make them seasons. He averaged 8.7 points last Slam dunk! forward to.'' stronger and that allows me to get up year, and led the team with 54 steals. No, make that--''The big difference between center even higher.'' 
and forward is playing with your back Which sounds a bit impossible to
Junior Stan Wilcox will start tomor-SLAM DUNK! 1 row in Hanzlik's absence. the 6-3 The most spectacular stuff ever seen to the hoop," explains Woolndge, who anyone who's cver seen Woolridge native of North Babylon, N.Y., has in the Athletic and Convocation has been tagged by Phelps to replace jump. But after a few dunks m improved his shooti~g touch, and Center, as Woolridge bull-dozed in, the graduated pivot tandem of Laim­practice, observers agree that he should provide more offensive support left his feet, turned completely around beer and Bruce Flowers. might be getting up an extra inch or that his 3.9 average of last year. and rammed the ball over his head and ''I've got to concentrate on working two higher when he moves in for the 
through the hoop. An awesome close to the goal," he continues. slam. He talks about his new position
Sophomore guard Mike Mitchell and 360-~unk, and you've never seen one "Rebounding becomes my number with candor. freshman cohort ) ohn Paxson both prettier. one concern, because we have a lot of "Naturally I'm a forward, and have recovered from injuries that "1 don' 1 know why I did it then," said . quickness and we want to run. playing center is still something new sidelined them in the Russian contest, Woolridge afterwards. "I just wanted "But you can't run if you don't have for me," he admits. "But I'm willing
and should see plenty of action against ro get the fans and my teammates the ball." to do anything I can to help the team Valparaiso. excited." A tall, lanky player who's been a win.'' 
Mitchell saw action in 29 games as a Well, the fans never sat down again forward for most of his career, Even another 360-dunk? freshman. averaging 3.0 points a after that one, and the rest of the Woolridge found out last spring that "With pleasure," h' ,<•ys, with a game. Paxson, a prep All-American players took the hint as they went on to he'd be playing center this season. smile that tells j,, ran' i .yait for the 
That meant learning new strategy and chance. 

11There's no other college job I want. I'm where I want to be . . . I'm very happy here. A lot ofpeople may not understand that." 
11I just said to myself if Notre Dame could do it in foot­ball, why not in basketball?" 
Digger Phelps 

doing what he does best, and loving every minute of it 
·b_y Brian Beglane Sports Writer  said Phelps. ''There was just enough time to see. But 1 set objectives: get good personnel  not two and  arnhition. He is a great public relations man, and is the type of coach many people certainly would like to  I'm just purring sports into life -­it's part of what we do to prepare the students for life. I really enjoy talking  
When Norre Dame basketbali coach  change the schedule.  have working for them. And yes, there  with students in their dorms.  
Digger Phelps walks around the hallways of the athletic department, you can tell he's there. His distinctive laugh, a long, drawn­out chuckle, can be heard very easily when he's still a few doors away, joking and talking with the various  "I felt we had .too many midwest schools on the schedule. That is not intended to put down the midwest, but I thought we had to go national. I wantt>d to play in Chicago and Nt>w York every year, and other cities like Philadelphia, Los Angeles and San  have bt>en offers. The New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association made him an offer last season, as did UCLA. Phelps turned both down. "It would take an awful lot to get me to leave here," said Phelps. "The pro  ~. 'The_re is a great life style here at Notre Dame, an ideal situation for an undergraduate. There's more than enough to do here. If anything, we are just trying to give these young people strength and help them move in the right direction. I like doing that."  
people who work for Irish athletics.  Francisco.. They're pro cities; media  life?  There's  the  travel,  the  long  And  as  Phelps  embarks  upon  his  
You rarely see the man in anything but  cities.  That's got to help the players,  season and the lack of control  -­ if you  nimh season at Notre Dame, he has  
a good mood.  roo.  tell a guy making $400,000 a year to go  just one goal remaining.  
Why? The answer is quite simple. Phelps is a man doing what he wants to do -­coaching baske'tball at Notre Dame. If you will, he enjoys his life. That is understandable, since Phelps  ·'Then we still play the smaller schools like Valparaiso or Fairfield," added Phelps. "That's a big help to their programs. ! wouldn't be sur­prist>d if some of their players are  for a loose ball, he can tell you to go to hell. Right now, that's not for me. I'm a New Yorker, though, and if I ever do go pro, it'll be in New York. "There's no other college job I  · "To win it all," he says, very seriously. "We've done everything else--we've been No.1, we've made it to the Final Four and we're a ranked team. There's only one thing left.  
mack coaching ar.Notre Dame his goal  there because they play Notre Dame."  want.  I'm where I want to be.  If I  "But even if I left tomorrow without  
early in his career. "It was while I was coaching at St. Gabriel's High School (in Hazleton, Pa.) that I decided I wanted to be coach at Notre Dame,'· explains Phelps. "Then, when I mo\'cd up as an assistant at Penn, Notre Dame was  Phelps is a man with a product -­Notrt' Dame basketball -­and he is out to sell ir. In facr, the Irish coach has been accused of being too much of a showman. Some feel he tries too much to orchestrate. th~ student body at horne games.  wanted to go Hollywood, I would have gone to UCLA. But I'm very happy here. A lot of people may not understand that.'' That's true. Some feel Phelps is not going to be coaching at Notre Dame in the next couple of years. But what  winning the national championship, I'd say okay. I set a goal for myself to get here, I got here and I have enjoyed coaching here and working with the people at Notre Dame.'' That comes from a mafl ;.,ho is just plain enjoying his life, and  
still on my mind, and it stayed there while I was head coach at Fordham for one yea,r. "Finally, the job opened up and I went for it, and, we'll, I got it." The time from when he started at St.  ''How do you sell Notre Dame basketball?" Phelps asks. "That's the quest ion. It is a matter of marketing, and there's nothing wrong with it. Get the most out of what you have got.  many don't realize is that Phelps looks aJ his life at Notre Dame from many angles--his own, his family's and yes, the students'. "I like the challenge  along the way has developed one of tile most' successful basketball programs in the nation.  
Gabriel's to being named top  man  at  "We  had  37,000  people  at  the  of recruiting, the campus  
Notre  Dame  covered  seven  years.  Silverdome in Michigan last season.  life at Notre Dame, and I lovt'  
From the starr of that period, he saw  I'd love to play in the Superdome down  the  student  body  here,"  he  
the potential for a basketball program  in New Orleans and go for broke on a  explains.  "Fifty perctnt of what I do  
at Notre Dame.  Mardi Gras weekend.''  here  is  sports,  and  in  the  other  50  
''I just said to myself, if Notre Dame .  Phelps obviously does  not  lack  in  percent I try not  to  relate to sports.  
could  do  it  in  football,  why  not  in  
basketball?" factly.  he said very matter-of­ DIGGER PHELPS' COACHING RECORD  
So Phelps embarked upon building a  Year  School  Record  Pet.  Post-Season Play  
basketball program at Notre Dame in  
1971, and the rest?  Well, the rest is  1970-71  Fordham  26-3  .897  NCAA East Regional (third place)  
history.  1971-72  Notre Dame  6-20  .231  
After  a  6-20  initial  campaign,  the  1972-73' Notre Dame  18-12  .600  NIT (runnerup)  
Irish finished second in  the National  1973-74  Notre Dame  26-3  .897 NCAA Mideast Regional (third place)  
Invitational Tournament in  1973 and  1974-75  Notre Dame  19-10  .655  NCAA Mideast Regional (fourth place)  
have not missed out on an NCAA bid  1975-76  '~otre  Dame  23-6  .793  NCAA Midwest Regional (semifinalist)  
since 1974. That's six straight trips to  1976-77  Notre Dame  22-7  .  .759 NCAA East Retonal (sernitlnalisr)  
the Championships.  Phelps obviously  1977-78  Notre Dame  23-8  . 742  NCAA Finals ( ourth place)  
meant business when he talked about  1978-79  Notre Dame  24-6  .800 NCAA Mideast Regional (runnerup)  
the potential for basketball  at  Notre  
Dame. "When I began here, I had no idea  N.D. Totals (8 yrs.): 161-72 Career Totals (9 yrs.): 187-75  .691 . 714  
what kind of team  we  would have,"  


,r ,r ,r r 
r 



The Irish Extra Friday, November 30, 1979-page 12 
Paxson copes with college pressure 
only recover from a sprained ankle he "Our family is so proud of what he's choice, but Paxwn emphasizes that
by Beth Huffman 

suffered in a pre-season practice, done and now he's gone on to Portland Dayton--not only Jim's, but their
Women's Sports Editor 

which sidelined him for the Soviet to play pro balL People think up parent's alma mater--was not really in 
Academic fears rank high on the list game, he must also deal with the things for me, and I never even the running. of woes for incoming freshmen, but recently-formed legend of his older thought about them before," offers "I had it down to Notre Dame and f:r~t-year student-athletes must also brother Jim. John. North Carolina and, it kind of carne concern themselves with the transition "I was only out four or five days," Loyalty to his family caused John to down to the area. I've always kind of from high school to college athletics. says Paxson, reflecting on the ankle miss seeing the Dayton-Notre Dame been attracted to Notre Dame...I just 
Fre"hman John Paxson, a guard injury which has reoccurred occasion­game last season. felt comfortable in the atmosphere. from Kettering, Ohio, has two added ally in his career, ''and it was ''I wasn't there. I was torn, so I saw "I just never wanted to go to UD. worri<·s to this list. Paxson must not disappointing missing the Russian it on TV. Jimmy was playing and I was I've always wanted to go away," 
game, but that was better· than rooting for him," explains John. explains the player who averaged 23.4 missing part of the season.'' Adjustment from high school to points per game along with 5.4 assists 
Paxson, a 6-3 graduate of Archbis­college basketball does not worry the in his senior year. hop Alter High School, enters the younger Paxson, either. In fact, he Digser Phelps was also a deciding college basketball scene with a name welcomes it. factor 10 Paxson's selection of the Irish to defend. Brother Jim, now a "It's going to be a lot different, it's squad. Portland Trailblazer, made his mark in going to be harder, because I'm "I'm really excited to play for him," college play at home-town University corning from Alter where a lot of Paxson enthuses. "I've heard a lot of of Dayton. As an All-American for the people were dependent on me,'' he good things about him...the way he Flyers, the older Paxson turned in says. coaches, watching him on TV and numerous impressive performances "If I had gone to Dayton I might seeing him play Dayton last year. before his first-round selection in the have been pressured into a spot where "He runs guys in and out a lot and 1979 college draft, including a 32-point I don't want to be. I'm glad I'm going I'rn just going to try to fit in show against the Irish. to Notre Dame for that reason,'' states somewhere and hope he can use me. 
But, comparison to brother Jim does Paxson. That's why I've been working on my not discourage or dishearten John Paxson, who led the Alter Knights game a lot this summer, hoping that I Paxson. to the State AAA crown in Ohio his can play," remarks Paxson behind his 
"It's kind of nice, because when junior year and was named that boy-next-door grin. 
someone compares me to him, I see tournament's Most Valuable Player, Paxson spent part of his summer at how good he is. People always ask me announced his decision to attend Notre the National Sports Festival, similar to if I get bothered by comparison with Dame shortly before the Irish-Flyer a rnini-Olympics, along with 40-some him, and I never even think of it that clash in February. The release caused other prep players across the country, way. a flutter of inquiries concerning his including Irish classmate Bill Varner. 
Paxson's resume includes a host of honors, with selections to six All­American teams (McDonalds, Basket­ball Weekly, Parade, Scholastic Coach, Coach and Athlete, and the National High School Athletic Coaches 
Association) heading the list. As he led his Knights to three straight conference crowns, Paxson 
Emotional Andree comes to play 
h1· ( ..ral,!!, C/Jt'al Andree takes mon· than his share of bdi1n· the game, and then we ran out compiled an amazing scoring record. 
.\j•url\ lf/ri!t·t· rihhtng about his youthful enthusiasm . onto the court for warrnups," recalls 
He left Alter with 1,081 career total
"The g_uvs on the team ktd me ahout Andree. "] went past the Russian 
points, with his career game high of 42II \ou'tt· g<>tng to talk about tlw it, hut I dotl't sec anything wrong with bench, and all of a sudden I was corning against Columbus East.
-,irntl:ll tit<"'-hctwt·<·n Ti111 Andree and slwwtng vouremotionsout there, and I staring this guy (Tkachenko) in the Paxson also proved reliable from theBilll.:~illlh<TJ, ,.,llt h:td IH't tn do it at a don't tltink riH'\' do citltt·r." elbow." 
charity stripe with an accuracy of justdJ'-,f;Jill (" Andrn· gaitit'd the confidence to But Andree wasn't so startled once over 80 percent.
!-"tom aLII. l.auniH'ct, the (>-II ;1-.-.cn him-.dfon the lloor from E:1rvin he got into the game. scoring his first 
Nevertheless, the sprained ankle,
-.t;Jrllng t<'JJict t>n 1:~-.r witHer'-; Notn· _John-;otl, who he guarded in the Notre Dame b:lskc·t in the first half, 
his brother's shadow and basketballlbtlH' :--.qtt:td. ;JJid t\ndnT, the (>-10 1\'ichtgan statt· clrampionship ganw and punctuating it by hurling his fist are the least of Paxson's worries right
lw11 :q>j>.ttt·nt to l.:tllllht·t'l '-,position-· tlun· vt·;u-, ago. "l\1agit" was a int<l the air. 
now--rhey all take a hark seat to thed" lt>ok ;tltkt' seni"': i\ndt<T wa-, :1 sophomore. Which will probably become a problem that plagues newcomers andB111 :\ndrt·t·. ;J frt·..,lffll:ltl f"mtn "\\"c ht·ld l·:ar\'11_1 to 52 point'-," familiar, altlwut h refreshingly wel­upperclassmen alike, academico..
l\ft>lltt"l 1\~tt· llrgh Sthool 111 Andn·t· jokes. "lit-t:dkt'd to me a lot romt· sight for Notre Dame fan,; over "The thing J' m really worried abouth•t lllitJg!tant. 1\ltt It , '" dctt'lllli!H'd to d111ing tlw game, though. and said tl~t· nl'xt linll· _year-,. 
is going from hish school academics to
Jlltl\'t· th:tl tlw '>llllll.lllllt''-end ti)("l<'. tlt;ll in :1 few \"t·;u-. it'd he 111\" turn." 
college academrrs," he said 111 early
''It htltlwt.., lilt" wlwn pn>plc s;l\ th;ll .l••hns<>ll. t;f t<>urse. was· right. 
August. "It's getting closer and closerI 111 Jfl !l,t· rlJ<>id oi" l.:tirnlwcr." -,;11-. Andre!' W:h namt'd the lop schoolho\' and J'rn really gerring nervous. I don't:\ndttT '".1\!;J,Iw l>lt\-.it:tll\'. but 11.<>1 l'l:11 t·t in l\1it higan 1:!-.r wintn, and 
know what to expect.''
JtH"Jtt:tlh I d"n't pl:t\ :11 all like that ... c:11ncd a slltll on numt·rous All­Now, well into his first semester atIt·.., tiiHkt-.t:ttHLthlt-th:tt Andree ;\nwr 11 a squads. 
Notre Dame, Paxson still concentrates
W<>trldtt.t \\':Jilt to I)(" klloWII a-, another · ··I ·::It\· in was onh· a sophomore last on the books.
llill I ;tJJllhtTI Notlt' l)amc·,., solllt'­n·at. hut he C<Hlltllandcd Michigan 
''I'rn hanging in there. It was hard
IJIIH ..., dt•Jlllll:llll. hut tnore uf"ten dor-State'-, team to the national champion: 
to adjust to the studying, but I'm
111.1111 < t'tllt·t i•" tlw IH'ttt·r pan of" fin11 ship.·' sa1·s Andree. ''He showed that handling it," asserts Paxson.
\T;JI-.. ·1,1 t'\·t·Jl the mo,;t rasual it·.., important to rake charge on the 
An education is important to Pax­
olht'l q·r. tht>ugh. Andree show~­coun 111 rertatn srru;urons, no matter son, and his athletic skills are givingt'IH>llgh l'llllliiPil tlll the t"Olfrt 10 di,;pclf huw old vou may be.·· 
him that schooling.
.Ill\ nntt<>th that he pla,·s in the sam(' Irish ·fans will no doubt ftnd 
''I'm in a different situation than a
<.tt:Jit>lll< tran< t' th;u l.a11nlH'er lived i\ndrn··-, philosophy a refreshing 
lot of kids," says Paxson about hisIll rh:lngc from recent times, bUI he is 
selection ofNotre Dame, "because rny··1 rn< >1 lllll i... a hig pat 1 of Ill\" aware that there is a lot to learn as a education has to do with basketball. ..
,t.:.lltH·. cnrl!t'de,; the pcrsnnahle college freshman. 
basketball for the next four years isr,("... lllll,lll "I d(ln"t ,;('(' how \(llf ran Andree earned a passing grade in 
goin~ to give me an education."
IT.dh i>LI\ :1 g;Jtllt' \\ltiHtUI gel!.ing into hr-, first confrontation with one of the 
At present Paxson is planning on his
11 II I 1'1:1\l'll wi!IH>Ut emotion. l big bo,·s. the U.S.S.R.'s 7-4 center, education, not his basketball to be his\\t>trl.!n"t I'Ll\ lwlf a-, well." Vladimir Tk:ichcnko. 
future.
lklll'.! ;r tttokl<' t>ll tlw lri-,h squad. ··I tTnwmhn I was prettY nnvous 
''I'm going into business, and hopefully I can stay with it. My father is an insurance agent and we've always thought it would be the same

79-80 Irish Roster 


with me. I'm not really thinking about playing basketball after college--that's four years away.''
NO POS. HT. WT CL HOMETOWN 
The soft-spoken Paxson's goal is not, nor ever has been, to be a star. As 
5.1 i\ndrtT, Tim c 6-10 230 Fr. Birmingham, Mi. 
he puts it, "There's always somebody
12 Branning, Rich G 6-_~ 180 Sr. Huntington Beach, CA in the family to put rne down again."
42 Hanzlik, Bill G 6-7 200 Sr. Beloit, WI But he does have high hopes for hisn Hawkins, Kevin F 6-5 200 Jr. Los Angeles, Ci. 
new team.
I I Hcah·. Tim G 6-1 180 Sr. Ft. Lauderdale, FL 
''I'm not going in with any ideas of
50 Iat k~t'n, Tracy F 6-6 210 Jr. Silver Springs, MD 
starting. I'm just hoping to contribute2'i Kelh. Marc G )-10 160 So. LaCrescenra, CA something. · 
I) Mirt:hc/1. Mike G 6-2 175 So. San Bruno, CA ''I'd like to win a national cham­
2) Paxspn, John G 6-2 180 Fr. Kettering, OH pionship. I think it would be really
)) Salinas. Gil c 6-11 215 San Antonio, TX
Jr. 

great. Especially at Notre Dame,44 Tripucka, Kelly F 6-6 230 Jr. Essex Fells, NJ where they've only been to the Final_)4 Varnn. Bill F 6-6 200 Fr. New Kensington, P A Four once and they've never had a24 \Vikox. Stan G 6-3 180 Jr. North Babylon, NY national championship...yea, I think12 \V,)olridge, Orlando c 6-9 215 .Jr. Mansfield, LA that would be really great. .. a national championship.''



~~-------~------------------------------------;~­
The Irish Extra Friday, November 30, 1979-page 13 
Varner toughens to handle college play 
b r c;"ry Gmssey ·sporis lf"rila· 
Sornettrncs the transition from high sLIHl<>i stardom to the role of a college freshman just learning the ropes can b(' diffiLult. 
When Bill Varner signed his letter of intt·nt last June to att('nd Notre Dame on a baskt:tball scholarship. he could h;t\T onl)· had a vagu(' notion about t!lC rnunt hs of learning that lay ahead for him. 
Before Varner ever reached South Bend, he got a few lessons in life that professors could never reach. 
The soft-spoken nattve of New Kensington, Pa., a suburb of Pittsburgh. spoke about his days last spring when he turned down rnam· lucal offers for a four-year stint at Notre Dame. 
''A lot of coaches weren't speaking to Ill('," recalled Varner. "Some people threatened not to buy clod1t·s fnHn Ill\' dad (the elder Varnn is a salesman of men's clothing in the Pittsburgh :n-ea). 
"Our whole family is really close, though. and they were behind my decision all the way." 
Evt·n with the cold-hearted display of fellowship back home, however. Varn('r sensed that good things were lving in store for him at Notre Dame. "I kn('W they wanted me," he said with a smile. "Coach (assistant Dann)) Ne(' staved in a hotel in town for a few weeks :if~t·r 1he season and Digg('t called allth(' way from Yugoslavia one morning at (,a.m." 
Coach Digger Pht·lps was convinced that he wanted Varner when he 
[continued on page 16] 


Rtf/ Varner 
Backcourt captains provide leadership 
L('adnship (Ieder ship) n. the function of showing the way; guiding; directing. 
Homantics tell us, quite effusely I might add, that leadnship is a quality that separates the men from the buy'. ''I Ieavy on the syrup. please but watch it d<>t'"n ·, run off the plate'" 
CuaL lws would probably agree with that analysis, hut coat·hes hav(' a tendency to be slightly more adam('nt than romantics. 
l.('adnsh i p, t h('y' II tell you, spells the difference bt·twtTn winners and also-rans. Coaches love winiH't" --they tolerat(' also-rans. You see, as trite a' it sotuld,, :i team needs winners in order to win. 
And that·.., something Diggn Phelps should do pl('nt}• of this year; win, that is. (Which is a heavy prcdi<t ion when you consider that I've only seen his lt'<llll play onrc.) Bur I'm willing to crawl out to the tip of the limb and say that because this year, while tlw talent i-,, a.., u-;ual, top-notch, the intangible asset of..,, tong llltnnal leadership is stronger than ever. TIJ;II, ofcoutse, stan-; with the coaches, but it stems from tlw team·, taptains. And Phelps is the first to ad111i1 that he'-, got two grcal ones this year. 
.. Hill lbtJ;Iik and Rich Branning an-great 
Frank LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 

people," Phelps points out emphat irally. "The kids 
on tlw tc;Jm lt>V'' 'ern and tlwy respect them. 
"llanzlik tall relate to any situation --people, 
plat t·, ... Itt· ju'-.1 il;ts that ability to walk in and tak(' 
t<Hlttol B1anning is a littlt· less flamboyant, but he 
IJ;ts ju-;t a" llllll'h character as Billy. Rich sets the 
t·xa1npk of k('('ping in shape, both on the court and 
with t·IJ(' h<H>b. They arc two different personalities, 
hut it'-, a situation wher(' they'r(' comparable with 
tlw t'lllirc team." 
_' '( J11n', Ul/li'/1 we were .lj)('ukmJ!. in .front o.f the 
'II!' (Jf/ Cht/J, u;,· Wt'Tt.' asked who on tl1e team we 
mrntlou/;~,·J "I' to, and I said'J<n·h 8ranninJ!, because 
1!.· 11 t~l,·,/il,·r ll'IJo keeps el!erythinJ!. in perspective. 
//, · llloii'S w/11'// it '.1 t;me .for basketball, time to 
siNd)' .md Ilith· to rdtl)<" and he mi>..·c_, his activities 
/', ., r u•,·/1. .. 
'I lilCY jackson 
PlwJp, hnng.., oLll an cxtrem('ly important aspect ol tlw '-.itu.Jrioll when he says that Branning and IL1111lik atl' two dif"Int'lll p('oplt-who work vny well wrtlr t'<J< lr <>tlw1 attd with the othn players on the tt·;mr Bt:11111111g i... quiet, composed --"The cooks! <II< l1111lw1 111 1 he gatd('n," NBC, AI McGuire onn· <;dl<·d h1111. I Ltn;lik, 011 the othn hand, is more Vi"thly t'l11<>tiullal. I lis actions, gestures and loud w111 d.., of l'IH ouragnncnt during a game arc 
just simply l('stinwny to that 
clemt·nt of his nature. But it's not <Ill 
evaluative ,ornparison; 
the met hods . /',._...... 
different / 
but equally·~ 
cffcu ivc. 
''I·,,, ne11l'r met person who doesn't 
//,mzlik. /Je has an openness about him that people n11turalh; admire. He has a lot o.f .friend\· because ofit...11nd a lot o.f re.1j1ect as well. '' 
DIJ!,J!.er Phelps 
A... king a player what he thinks of his role on a 
team is a dull, but necessary, ritual that writers 
rcligiously adhere to. However, both Branning and 
Han;lik offer some interesting insights on their 
n·..,pon..,thtllty a-; captams of the Notre Dame 
ba..,ket hall team. 
"W/e wa111 to work on communtcatton, stresses Hr:inning. "If anything 1s important, tt s comnwnicat ion between the coaches and players. If cithn side ha'i a problem, Bill and I feel it's our re..,p<lll'iihility to act as m<·diators and see if it can't "\V('.I(' rc;H!y to providt· lt-adn-.;hip, hut th(' illljHlll<lllt thing is that W(' at(' a team." 

''flllllll//Jt.l ,Y1'tll" 11'1' /7<171<' 1/11' /J1·1·t cdp!<!/1/S Wl' '11£' /J,tJ Sill<.<' f'l'<' /Jt'<'ll /11'1'<'. 'fth'Y l11kc t/J{'I';· role _,,·nu/tl!)' ,11/d.m do !I"· /'lt!Y<'IS tlllj Clhh-/}('s. l.ljh'!ll tl1, · s11 1111111 ·r U'll/1 butl1 1(/c/JII!Id Ht!l, and lllill'l' 1-'. real r,·ll'<'< 11;11./Jut!l u/tll,'lll. I llllll>usitiT,,· tlwv u.>t!l do a ,1.!,1111,/ /llf,, ,mJ l/1.1/ U'tl/ /11•11> til<' It'd/// UI/J/." 
(;t//J,·rl .\~tltlli/1 

Oh yt·,, that will help tlw team win. Phelps says tl1a1 hims('ll. 
''That kind of kadnship is a vny vital factor In wlllning," ht· say-;. "Look at Willi(' Stargdl and the Pllt,hlllgli Pirates. Tlw captain sets the example and IIJl··t('afll follows it. That's the kind of situation Wl' hope to d('vclop lwtl' with l{ich and Bill." 
Tl1i" vt·ar tlw talent w1 the Notr(' Dame Basketball tc;Jtn i; C('rtainly ('qual to any that Irish fans hav<.: "l't'IJ 111 ITLTIJI year'. But, aftn o,pcnding time with till' pia~ !'I" and U><ttiws, OIH' Sl'llSt'S a difft'lTntT; in allitudt, pt·thap"--a po..,itivc f('t·ling that his might iH tiJ(' ye;Jt And that start" at tlw top--with the ,o;J< lr<·, and tlw cq>lallh. 
l.<·;Jdl't ship. 

Tl11" y<·;if it could makt· all th(' difln('tH c. 
he worked out.'' llanzlik agree..,. "That and setting an example, _both on and off the 
C<>Urt. would be the biggest duties of bemg a captain," Hanzlik points out. "Sometimes a player can he having problem'> that will affect his play, and the coaches won't he awan: of his problems and therd(Jre won't be able to take that into e<Hl'>ideration. Rich and I want to help in that area." 
"We have to look at it from the angle that we are captains, but we're players too," adds Branning.

Rich Branning keeps everything in perspective. Not too many people dislike Bill Hanzlik. 
The Irish Extra Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 14 


''The conference schools don 't
''I don 't think the expansion 
really have to worry about their
will make the road any easier 
non -conference encounters ' ' 
for indepent4nts ' ' _Ray Meyer 
-Hank Raymonds 

Coaches speak onNCAAexpansion 
by Mike Henry 

l'("tt" ( :arlt·...,rrno. tht" ft·I-.t\". outspo­
kt'n haiH<lrll respon...,iblt-for conduning 
tht" NatH•nal lnvitarwn Tournament 
proret"ding-. in mid-March, caused 
rnon· than a few en·brows to he arched 
wla·n he annotinccd the two-fold 
t·xpari...,ion of tht" New York-based 
t·xr 1 ,1vagan1a fmrn last year's total of 
I(l t"lllt anr-; to a whopping .12. Coupled 
wrr h r he :'\JC;\:\ 's progressive expan­
'""n (tht'ir ext·rurive committee, 
lwadt"d 1)\ Billl·l\lln, Boston College's 
athlt-w· driC·rtor. approved the addi­
ti<~n of ~·ighr more squads to the 
posr·s<"a-.on madnes>.), one is left 
pondning rlw attractiveness--as well 
ao; tlw rnc·tit --of a tournament battle 
lwrwc·t·n rlw Mid-American Confer­
t"lltT runnn-up and the NCAA senmd­
plal t" finishC"r. or an NIT final betwe-en 
1h<" Big ll"n·!' f~n1rt h-place ream and 
rhc third hot squad from the South­
ea... rc-rn C:Pnkrence. Iowa versus 
Cieorgi.t in rlw Garden? Don '1 bet any 
drinking money again"t i1. 

Obviou...,ly, though, tournament compt"rttion translates into revenues for all HO post-season contestants, as wt·ll as publicity and esteem derived from such recognition. The NCAA execur ive cornmttree had few qualms about adding to the already burgeon­ing field. "The NCAA Division I Baskt'tball Committee (chairmaned by Rig Tt·n Commissioner Wayne Duke. and comprised solely of individuals with ties to conference members) which meets four times a year. concerning rhe tournament format. assembled last July to discuss how the tournament could be improved," Torn Jernsredr. assistant executive direcror 
·of tht' NCAA. explained. 

''Thev voted unanimouslv to recom­mend tc; the executive committee that t·ighr more schools be extended invita­tion..... In turn, the <:ornrnittee felr that rlw ovnall quality ofcollegt' haskt·rhall rodav warranted this expansion. 
"Meanwhile. the Board of Directors of thC' National Association~ Basket-. hall Coaches. a consultative bodv of Dean Smith (North Carolina). Bc;bhy Knight (Indiana), Marv Harshman (\Vashington). John Thompson (Cieorgcrown). and other prominent coadws, has recommended rhat the tournament eventually be expandt·d to an c·vC"n 64 reams. There are so man)" good ream" today, and rhe NC:AA is so 
''You're not likely to see an inferior team win six straight against such tough competition ' ' -Abe lemons 

balanced. that it would be unf~1ir to deprive a qualified club the chance to fight its way to the top." 
It would be difficult to envision anv 

· coach being unhapFy with having hi~ team's chances o participating in­creased hv the committee's decision. There is.· however. a prevailing atti­tude among NCAA member institu­tion..., that a full slate of conference games is more taxing than an inde­pcndt"nt'..., schedule and. indeed. tht' new guidelines seem almost a direct result of last year's Big Ten Skirmish, which wound up in a three-way deadlock between Michigan State, Iowa. and Purdue, with the Hoilc>rmakers being sent to New York due to the old limit of two teams from any one confc>rence being extended hids. "I don't think the expansion will make the road anv easier for independents,'' Notre Dam"e graduate Ray Mc>yer, in his 3Hth year as DePaul's coach, comments. "They're still going to have to win 20 games to be tnvired. Most major independents play a disproportionate number of their games at home. while the Cl)nference schools can be on the road for a long stretch, knocking each other's heads off. But it's a shame to keep· those good reams out of the tournament, especially one that may just be peaking come March, as the Spartans did last year." 
Hank Raymonds, entering his third season as AI McGuire's successor at Marquette, is of the opinion that the dc>cision to enlarge the field may be detrimental to rhe independents. "Teams like us. Notre Dame and DePaul have to he up for every game>, while the conference schools don't really have ro worry about their non-conference encounters,'' the pre­maturely graying Raymonds explains. 
''They can instead use them to prepare for their conference schedules. And I don't think a team with a losing record should gain an automatic berth simply by winning a season-ending tourna­ment. If rhe Atlantic Coast Conference or rhe SEC wants to hold a money­making tournament, fine, but rhe\· should he able to determine thci.r NCAA representative on the basis of their conference schedule." 
As they watch NCAA coffers over­flow from the revenue derived from the additional games, conference schools are counting rheir blessings at the opportunity to be considered among the nation's elite. although they may be hard-pressed to explain. after the season, why they aren't among the fantastic 48. Abe Lemons. the long-winded Longhorn mentor who has incited roundball frenzy rivalling the excitement present in Austin during October weekends, realizes that a field of 48 may dilute the overall quality of the tournament, but is cognizant of rhe benefits all members schools will reap from the move. 
''There are so manv teams of generally equal abiliry today," Lemons drawls as he munches on a Panatela. "Before, the monev went to the same schools every year, ·and now more and more reams will he ahle to share in the gravy. Anyway, the tournament is risky enough as it is. with one had game spelling doom for a ream. You're nor likelv to see an inferior team win six straight against such tough competition.·· 
Going one step further is Fairfield coach Fed Barakat, who brings his unheralded Stags to the ACC on Decc>mber 22. Entering his lOth campaign, Barakar realized fruition when Mark Young and Joe DeSantis were picked in the second round of rhe NRA draft. "I 1hink every school in 
''Sure it 'll hurt the NIT, and the NIT is very good for college basketball' ' _Larry Brown 

the country should participate in the 
rournam<"nt," he stared tlatlv. His 
voice rising. he continue..... · '.'Ealh 
team works just as hard during the 
regular season. and a team may he 
denied due to irs lack of notoriety or its 
geographical locarion. Tltc· NIT rould 
expand to 70 t<"am..., and realize a 
financial bonanza. Two year-. ago we 
wc>re invited to 1he NIT and had to play 
at Dayton. We got our burrs kirk«l. 
but 14,000 fan.... paid six or sn·c n 
dollars a ticker to watch ir. 
"Now maybe every team shouldn't 
he invited--bur !he nlore the merrier. 
I'm tired of seeing glamour teams. 
living off !heir football ream's exploits. 
continually getting all rhe post-season 
exposure.'' 
A purist longs for a lone voice to cry our in the wilderness. Strangely, it comes from a place where regard for the status quo is nonexistent, where continual change seems to he lhe most enduring constant. For the first time, UCLA's head coach seems to be ou1 from under the aegis of the wizard. and Larry Brown speaks rationally from his perch in Westwood. . ' "Boy, ir sure is a lot easier to coach 
these guys than rhe Nuggets," Brown 
related. His New York accent made 
more nasal by the effects of an allergy, 
he addt>d, "Hell, it'd be easier to 
coach my wife rhan George 
McGinnis. 
"Now, Digger and Bobby Knight 
are probably more qualified to speak 
on rhis subject rhan I am. Rut 
personally, I think 48 teams is roo 
many. Sure, it'll hurt rhe NIT, and the 
NIT is very good for college basket hall. 
But as more teams are made eligible, coaches will work a lor harder recruit­ing in an attempt to gain instant success. And rha1' s why rhe freshman eligibility rule also bothers me. If we eventually go to 64 teams, it's going to put roo much pressure on freshman arhleres. They may be ready for college from an athletic standpoint, but I rhink they need a year to settle into a colkge atmosphere. 
"I guc>ss It may be good in providing an ince.ntive for some reams. Bur if you do a responsible job of coaching, you're g~ing to get a lot our of college players. 
And fans are certainly going to get a great deal of basketball --more than ever before --in future> NCAA shin­digs. 
Big Ten anticipates another banner cage season 
by the Associated Press 

It'II be ~ hard act to follow but the Big Ten hopes for another banner basketball campaign when all 10 
conference  teams  swing  into  action  
this weekend.  
Michigan  State,  Purdue  and  Iowa  

shared the conference title last season with Michigan State going on to win the NCAA championship while Indiana won the NIT where Purdue finished second and Ohio State fourth. 
In the preseason Associated Press national poll this year, Indiana was ranked No. 1, Ohio State No. 4 and Purdue No. 11. 
All three will be factors in the Big Ten race which begins Jan. 3 but, before that, conference teams will have displayed their talents in intersectional games and tournaments covering the continent and extendin~ to Hawaii. 
Michigan State and Wtsconsin launch the season today1 with tournament competition. Michigan State, having lost Earvin (Magic) Johnson and Greg Keiser from its championship team, plays in the Lapchick Memorial Tour­nament in Jamaica, N.Y., while Wis­consin hosts irs own tournament. 
Other openers _today' find Illinois at Brigham Young, Eastern Michigan at Minnesota, Illinois Wesleyan at North­western and purdue at Colorado State. 
lr will be something of a homecoming for Joe Barry Carroll, Purdue's out­standing pivotman, of whom Coach Lee Rose says "If there is a better center in the country, I'd like to see him play.'' Carroll is a native of Denver and one of the big reasons Purdue cannot be overlooked as a title contender. 
Four other teams including Indiana and Ohio State open their seasons tomorrow. Indiana will host Miami of Ohio and Ohio State takes on intrastate rival Ohio University. Northern Illi­nois will be at Iowa and Massachusetts invades Michigan. 
Indiana and Ohio State, in addition to fielding veteran teams, will unveil two of the most heralded freshmen in the nation. Isiah Thomas of Westchester, Ill., will be starting for Indiana at guard and Clark Kellogg of Cleveland will be at forward in Ohio State's starting lineup. 
How good are Thomas and Kellogg? Thomas breaks into an Indiana lineup that returns all five starters from the NIT championship team while Butch Carter, the team's third leading scorer, will become the sixth man. 
Kellogg, regarded one of the best basketball players ever to enroll at Ohio State, joins the likes of Herb Williams, Kelvin Ransey, Carter Scott and Jim Smith iQ the starting lineup. 
While Indiana., Ohio'State and Purdue are commanding national attention, nobody is overlooking Iowa,'1 a ream which came on strong to claim a share of the championship a year ago. 

The Hawkeyes have All-Big Ten guard Ronnie Lester returning along with forward Kevin Boyle, one of the league's top freshmen a year ago. Iowa also wtll have Steve Krafcisin and Steve Waite, both 6-10, in the starting lineup. 
EXffiA STAFF 

Edited by Mark Petty and Paul Mullaney 
Layout and Design by Paul Mullaney 

Photography by Doug·Christian Pete Romzic~ John M.acor Phil Stauder 
Staff 
John Smith Beth Huffman·, · Craig Chval 
Tina Terlaak 

• 
The Irish Extra Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 15 
ACC •• Home of ND's 'sixth man' 
byMarkPeny Sports Editor 

The San Francisco Dons were sitting on top of the world back in March of I977. Coach Bob Gaillard had the only undefeated team in the country, and for the first time since the Bill Russell era. USF was ranked number one. 
Then thev came to the Athletic and Convocatior'J Center at Notre Dame. 
In February of 1978, Hank Ray­monds, following in the footsteps of the legendary AI McGuire at Marqu­ette, had coached the Warriors, led by All-Amencan Butch Lee, to the num­her one ranking. 
Then they came to Notre Dame. And iil l'J7i, UCLA, coached by the Wizard of Westwood, John Wooden, 
and bruised egos. 
Since the ACC opened in the fall of I968, Notre Dame has posted a 134-25 record in home games. With the exception of the 1971-7 2 season (coach Digger Phelps' first at Notre Dame), tlie Irish have not lost more than three games ip one season at home. 
Much of the credit for the success has to go to the players, as Notre Dame has fielded top quality teams in all those years. But the Notre Dame student body does all it can to help the Irish 'A(in. 
Coach Ray Meyer of DePaul, who pla:ved basketball for Notre Dame from J!J16-l ')38, knows what kind of effect this crowd can have on a visiting team. 
'It'-.; very difficult to play ar Notre Dame because the student body is very 
had won sev<"n s1 raight national cham-_loud," Meyer notes. "They get the 
pionships. Along the way t~e Bruins had burlt up the longest wmnmg streak in college basketball history, 88 games, and Bdl Walton and crew were once again regarded as the top team in the nation. 
Then they came to Notre Dame. 
These are just a few classic exam-pies of highly-ranked basketball teams who come to play the Fighting Irish at the ACC, only to go home with a loss Notre Dame team so psyched up that they arc never down. And if they are ·not down, then there is no way that they arc going to beat themselves. It takes a real effort to beat them there. 
"We try to convince our players that they will be going to a place that will be rocking with enthusiasm and noise, and to try and forget about that. We tell them that only the Notre Dame players can beat them." 
Two years ago, Meyer decided to try and neutralize the effect of the vocal Irish throng. Normally it is customary for the visiting team to defend the east goal in the second half at the ACC, moving in the direction of the Notre Dame student body on offense. Meyer decided to go the other way. 
''They (the students) get a lor loud,·r at the end of the game," Meyer says. "It was mainly just a psychological thing, something to help our players." 
The pl(/Y worked, as the Blue Demons won a 69-68 overtime contest which helped propel them to an NCAA bid, and put the small Chicago school back in the ranks of college basketball's elite. 
'T II probably do it again this season." Meyer adds, looking ahead to DePaul's Feb. 27 contest at the ACC. 
A classic example of a crowd controlling a game came during the 1976-77 season. San Francisco came to the ACC with 29 straight wins and were ranked number one. At the pre-game pep rally, Irish coach Digger Phelps gave the student body their assignment for the game, and when the Dons came onto the court they were greeted with a chant of "29 and I! 29 and I!'' The visitors looked up to th~ stan.ds with a touch of awe in their expressiOns. • • 

Then Phelps made his appearance on the court, building the crowd to a fever pitch. 1When the Irish players finally ran out, the Dons were con­sumed in an ,ocean of toilet papers, streamers and just plain noise. 
From that point on thecrowd never let up, as the USF players found they were competing against the Ir_ish players and the intcn<;e noise of the crowd. With every Notre Dame basket, steal, rebour;d or defensive play the din would increase. The Dons were obviously shaken by this, never playing bef(>re a crowd this big during that season. 
When the dust had cleared and the noise had stopped, the Irish had <1 convincing 931-82 win. In a gesture of great ..respect~ Dick' Enberg and Billy Packer of NBC selected the Notre Dame student bodv as the most valuable player in th~ game. 
So beware, ~II you top-ranked teams who c~mw to the ACC with visions of glory in your eyes' Hc·ware of the "-;ixth man," 'the Notre Dame student body. 
Notre Dame women heighten their chances 
by Beth Huffman Women's Sports Editor 

While Digger Phelps is conducting his last practice before the regular season, Sharon Petro will be introdu­cing her 1979-80 edition of the Notre Dame women's basketball squad at the first Taylor Invitational season for Petro and the Irish women at varsity level. 
Size is the newest addition to the Notre Dame line-up, which now boasts six women at 5-10 or over. 
"Obviously we have a lot more height," notes Petro. "We are hoping for more rebounding. We scheduled Western Michigan for a scrimmage because they are a big team. We held our own until they put on a full court press.'' 
Despite the trouble with Western Michigan, Petro insists that size will not impair the team's speed. 
Jane Politi ski, drafted by the Houston Angels of the Women's Professional Basketball League last } unc, is the forerunner for a starting posttron at center. Politiski, the leading returning scorer with an average of Il.I points and 9.6 re­bounds per game, holds down the post position at 5-II and s~rves as one of this year's captains. 
''.Jane has a tendency to start slow and build up as the season progresses. 
She is starting out better this year than ever; so we'll be expecting a lot from her," comments Petro. 
Tricia McManus and Shari Matvey, 5-11 and 6-1 respectively, will back up Politiski underneath the basket. McManus will return for her second year with the Irish, while Matvey, a two-time all-state player in Ohio, is a freshman. 
The Irish are strong on the front line with Kelly Hicks, Melissa Conboy, Pat O'Brien, Donna Reynard and Jan Drowe all in strong competition for starting positions. Hicks will be back after missing most of last year. 
Conboy, O'B1ien and Rene Antlik, all sophomores, earned high praise from Petro for their individual im­provements over the summer. "They came back bigger and stronger with good attitudes. They're anxious to do better than last year," compliments Petro. 
Co-captain l\1olly Cashman will com­mand the team on the court from the point guard position. Cashman, who joins Politiski as the only seniors on the squad, holds Irish records in field goal pt'rcentages for both single-sea­son and career. 
Adding heighth to the backcourt will be ] ane ] ergesen and Sheila Liebscher, both listed at 5-8. .J ergesen, a freshman who was named a high school All-American from Havre, Mont., will be absent from the line-up for an uncertain amount of time due to a knee injury. 
"Last year we didn't have the luxury of having tall guards. With all our strength we will be substituting more frequently. The girls can then commit themselves more on the court when they know. they can come out for a rest," remarks Petro. 

Renee Antelik, Maggy Lally and Conboy conclude the candidates for guard positions. Lally, whose sister Carol holds _several Irish scoring records, may have trouble against the taller teams. However, the 5-0 guard will provide much needed quickness on the court. 
"Take it to the limit" is the theme of this year's squad, according to Petro, as it sets out 'to improve last year's record of 16-6.: The team will face its toughest schedule to date, with most opponents in the Division I or II categories. Notre Dame, a Division III institution in ~women's sports, com­petes with no scholarship athletes. 
Petro has stressed the team's motto each day and emphasizes that if each team member works on her talent to the limit then the team as a whole could reach its potential. .. " another district championship, the state title ... or a trip to nationals, who knows?" dreams Petro. 
1:30 p.m. .·.. S:OOp.m, 
·.· i8:35 potn. ·s:oo p.m. 8:00p.m. 
·· s:oop:,m.
l:;o p.m. . }:30 P:P·, N_gC 

(Sat.c)· at Dayton 2:15 p;m. Ail times.are EST.; tightcolumnin~icate$· teleyi~iot):~etWo.rk 
~ • • ... • ... ... ... • • .... • ·•• "' • .. '1111'~11" ' .. .... ·, .~ ..... "' 

Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 16
l The Irish Extra 
/Skipper Phelps unites castaways 
I Most basketball coaches design pretty basic success ,rrategies for their teams before the season starts. Controlling the middle, getting better perimeter shooting, keeping their composure, commi[[Ing fewer turnovers, etc., etc., etc. 
But Digger Phelps of Notre Dame is no ordinary coach. 
Just ask the Irish pilot what it will take for his club to fly tl' the top in 1979-80. And he'll probably respond. "Gilligan's Island." 
lfw:u don't think he's serious, take a look inside his bas.ketbalJ ceam's locker room. Just a step or two in~ide. and you'II see a poster of the island that Bob D<"nver put on the map. "That's ·1ghr." smiles Phelps. "We're using the basic plor of that show for our theme. It just means that we \\.1.nt the players to be left alone. 
·'I wish I cnuld take them from December 1 to April 
1: just tah them to class and let 'em play. If I could clo tllat, thev 'd win it. They proved what they could clo in the Hussian game." 
Phelps is confident that the Irish can keep up the same intensitv that they exhibited in the second half 
uf  the  victorv  over  the  Soviet  Nationals.  With  
Gilligan',., Hand, that is.  
"If peof•le  leave  them  alone,  they'll  do it,"  he  
reasserts.  "It's  the  players'  families,  friends,  

roommares, etc.. that caw;e the problems. "A guy'll go back to his hall, and a friend will tell him that h<"'s not shooting enough. Or he'll get a call 
Paul 


from home, and his parents will say that he should work more on offense than on defense. And somebody else will tell him... That all carries over onto the court, and we don't need it." 
What the Irish do need, Phelps feels, is the proper frame of mind. 
"People don't realize it," he says, "but college basketball is virtually all mental. Our ball players are great athletes--if they weren't they wouldn't be playing here. It's the mental aspect ofthe game that tan make or break you. 
"Look at what the Pirates did in the World Series. They were down three games, but an excellent frame of mind and good mental leadership from a guy like Stargell helped them come back and win it. 
"That's ·the kind of attitude we have to take," Phelps continues to preach. ''We know ourselves and what we can do. We just have to do it. Nobody else is going to do it for us.'' 
"We want to be a family, just like the Pirates showed they were. We've got to believe in one another. just like they did." 

And while the Irish believe in themselves, Bob Denver, Sister Sledge, and Notre Dame fans have good reason to believe in the Irish as well. 
Most everybody knows how talented the 1979-80 Irish squad is. But people will soon find out that there's more to it than talent. Phelps' crew seems to be in top mental frame of mind--and a good deal of that can be credited to this year's crop of freshmen. 
Guard John Paxson comes from first-class family, and the Irish freshman didn't get cheated out of any of the family's fringe mental benefits. In his own quiet way he shows his self-confidence on the court. 
Bill Varner, freshman forward, displays the same self-assuredness on the basketball court. He has a deadly corner jump shot, and should be vital to the Irish as soon as he gets a little collegiate experience. 
Center Tim Andree is a pleasant addition to a team that lost both of its big men from a year ago. He stands just a hair shorter, and weighs slightly less, than Bill Laimbeer --which has led many people to compare Andree and Laimbeer. But the comparison stops there, because Tim Andree comes to play basketball. 
Regardless, it's the attitude of these freshmen that has to give close Irish observers a good feeling about the upcoming season. And if everything goes according to plan for Phelps and his troops, a tnp to Indianapolis this March could come about --as long as there's a stop-off at Gilligan's Island. 
[continued (rum page 13] 

wat\ IH"d th(' (,.-youngster perform al"n~-.idt' tht· lik<·~ of Sa~e Howie ~a 7-2 flt·,hrnan s1andout at Kenrucky) 111 Iii(' Dap1)('r Dan l{oundball Classic in Pl!t,hmgh. "lie showed a real offt·rhivt· ahilir\· to find the hall. t''>JH'\ iallv on the offensive hoards," Pll('ll.'' n·rnt·mhl'rt·ci. "I liked what I 
01h c· ht· arri\'l·d a1 Notre Dam('. riling-. didn't gel l'as~· for Varner. On rill' hard, ou11. VC'tl'rans Kelly T11putka. 01 L11Hi<~ Woolridge. and Tran J;I\ bnn hav(' been giving V;irnn.and hi-. --.inuou-. bodv a crash <11ur"<' in rltl' <Ill .,r 1t1ughn(:ss--both rnt·nlal and phvs11 al. . 
''It was harci ar first, but rhe guys have hel1wd me a lot," said Varner. "I probably would have started at t\1arquette (his second t·hoice) but pla\·ing with Orlando, Kelly, and Tracy will givC' me experience before I get mro games. 
''lr's so much different than high school,·' Varner commented about the competition for playing time in the I ri-.h frontcourt. "Everybody thought I could jump then, but when I came hnl' and saw Orlando... 
"lr', likl' starring all over." 

Phelps has always made it a point to kt his freshmen get an early baptism into pn·s<"ason vmrkours. "We don't spoil thl' guys." Phelps insists. "We don't even usc· a whistle until the first scrimmage. If you get whacked. you ger whacked -· Billy's had to get used to that. 
"lie's been humbled a lot, bur I think lw's starting to come through." 
After an early-season thumb injury that hindered his shooting. Varner feels more at home on the court. ·'I've become rougher and stronger. Digger makes you want to play." 
Dividing time between prarrice and schoolwork is another adjustmt"nt. However, Varner has found plenty of assistance from teammates and fric·nds. 
"Sometimf.~ it's tough," he says. "Orlando's always around to push me, though. Vagas Ferguson helps. too. and I'm doing well so far." 
' Varner

' ' 
V;llnl'r n11w enters his fir'it Sl'ason f.,I No1 rl' J);ont' wilit classmatl's Tim Andrl'l' and Jttlllt Pax'ion. The trio ha'i all tlw n('(l~·nria\-., tlll papn and most of tltt·lr llr'il S('IJH·stt·r behind them. Plll'lp-. will -;a~. "lltat tlr~t st'ml'ster i" lill' rll<l't diffludt pniod." 
With Bill Hanzlik sidelined with a dislocated finger. players like Varnc·r ligurl' to get tht·ir share of playing 1irnl'. When the Irish go into their pre~sing game, look for Varnc·r to be a fart'or. When the ball goes up in thl' olfl'n~ivl' c•nd of the court. look fi>r Va11H'r on the boards. 
Bill Varnc·r rs looking forward to the dwlll'ngcs ahead. And he'II tt·ll an\·onc·. "It makes me want to play." 

NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL 
--.-­
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 17 
~-~~~------~-~---~~~--~-~-~-


WEHONOk 
~-
VISAtMASTER CHARGE 

• 254 DIXIEWAY NORTH • ROSELAND 272-2522 
WINDSOR CANADIAN 
1.75 ML 
$959 


EARl.Y 
TIMES 
BOURBON 
80° QUART 
$599 
,.. 

GILBEY'S 
GIN 
QUART
6.l~) 
'1'1_
Ia'

~'11J $499
.. 'f 
I ' 
\t. 
'-=-:~~ 
... 
• 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND (BEHIND THE LINEBACKER) 233a4608 
FOR ONE WEEK ONLY! 
• 
CANADIAN 
;~.~I 
LORD 
~ 
CALVERT 
$5!!, 

SMIRNOFF VODKA 
QUART 
$549 
KESSLER'S 
BLENDED WHISKEY 
$5~~T 

liON. thru THURS. I AI TO 10 PI FRI. IIIII SAT. I AI TO 11 PI 
ELKHART 674-6657 
· 
24112-0Z. 
CANS 

MacKINTOSH SCOTCH 
QUART 
$549 
BACARDI RUM 
SILVER/GOLD 
··5~!, 

LOCATION OF THE NEW KINGS CELLAR: 


SAME LOW PRICES AT ALL SPIRITS SUPERMARKET LOCATIONS WINES -CORDIALS -LIQUEURS -HOLIDAY SAVINGS! 
DRY SACK SHERRY __________ 1soML s5.99 KELLER GEitlit------------750 Ml '2.38 WILD TURKEY _______ 750Ml 101· BouRBoN s9.85 BLUE NUN LIEBFRAUMILCH ---750 ML '3.9'9 AMARETTO 01 SARONNO -----750 Ml '9.89 TAYLOR CHAMPAGNE EXTRA DRY1suL '3.99 
QUART

SOUTHERN COMFORT ________ s6.69 MUMM'S EXTRA DRY---------s.. '9.99 KA~LUA COFFEE LIQUEUR _____ 750 Ml s6.99 LANCER'S ROSE--------____ 7soML '3.68 -BOGGS CRANBERRY LIQUEUR __ QUART· s9.89 BEAUJOLAIS 1978 ___________ JSOML '3.99 
CONVENIENCE STORES: 
Prien Eftldin Thru 1 ...

• 1426 Mishawaka Ave. • 1725 N. Ironwood • 2934 E. McKinley • 4401 S. Miehis•n St '"-11171 
I 
. I I 
I 
I 
I 
-1
l 
l 
I I I i 
I 
------------~-~----:-~-~~-~ 
-
Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 18

Features 

LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
This Boy Of Sumtrier 
It's funny, sometimes, ho~ faith 
comes to tempt us to resist our 
doubts. All the evidence seems on 
side of doubt. All man's experience 
seems to be birth, growing old, and 
death; after death, burial; then no­
thing. No letters from the gr~ve; no 
knocking on the walls to convmce us 
of ghosts; no fragrance of roses han&­
ing in the air as though a dear, f~ml­
liar room had lately entertamed 
guests who couldn't stay. Only loss, 
defeat and loneliness he ahead. "I 
see tl~e boys of summer in their 
ruin," writes Dylan Thomas. "Gol­
den lads and girls all must/ As chim­
ney sweepers come to dust," writes 
Shakespeare. We are the sunsh~ne 
boys awaiting ruin_ ; we are the g1rls 
of summer expecting dust. 
"Sing no sad songs for me," w(· pr?­
test; "not yet, not now, not for a mil­
lion years.'' So the beat goes on, and 
the dance and the music. We hon­
estly forget midnight .. We co.uldn't 
move if we took m1dm~ht senously, 
so we live by clocks with the hands 
taken off, not expecting t".:> escape 
midnight, but simp!>: to liye in peace 
with it. The hour will stnke, the 
chimes will ring, whether we wear 
watches or not. Let time do its work; 
the hour', when it comes, will have no 
trouble finding us. 
It's not fear that disturbs us, but 
hope;hope within us, stirr!ng joy; j~y lifting us into a sense of hfe that 1s another life than our own. Like clectn, sweet air let into a room used by smokers a sense of caring enters us as though someone were hugging us; as though interiorly, we were being cheris~ed; as though there were no fear in us, but only places belonging to peace and joy that we could rest in as though they 'were everlasting arms. 
There is no language to describe ac­curately the experience of being tempted by faith. Every word you reach for becomes instantly trite; every I?hrase seems tired from over­usage m the service of humdrum things. Still, for you, the faith exper­ience is happening. You can't even call it God, because maybe it's just an emotion that acts like God is sup­posed to act, as religious literature describes Him. Yet the mood is upon you, like a song without words you can sing, like a dance with an unwrit­ter0 score. You can't even pray, be­cause it would be easier to explode than to pray. You are part of some­thing, you exist in an experience. You thmk of a snowflake carried on the wind,frozen by the wind's chill. BQ.t your experience is more interior than that of a snowflake gripped by the wind; anyway, what you are feeling has nothing to do with fire or 
ICe. 
Faith, when it come~ as temptation to shake our doubts, 1s a tease. more real than a mira~e. Faith promtses. so much. Nothmg, faith tc;lls us, IS ever lost: fathers will be. giVen back; friends will greet us agam; erayers that earth seemed deaf to will be 
answered in heaven. Faith colors all of life because for faith, there is no death: no dust: 'only the mutability of creatures on their way to glory. 
In my room, on a late November 
evening, with books. closed, I sit dreaming, not knowmg where t~e dream begins or ends. In the winter night outside my window, students scuffle in the snow, and I hear them shouting at one another In the day's breviary, I have read of the Lord ser­ving Israel ~s its Sht:pherd, and of Christ keepmg the mghr watch, sending H1s angels to watch over the house and keep us inG'?d's peace. I have a sense that vocauon means moving in two world's, bearing the sin and pain of earth to the place where God can notice it; bearing the healing of heav~n t? the. moments when children live m pam. 
What troubles me is -that I don't 
move with much grace between the 
realms where ministry begins or is 
accomplished. That is why faith, 
when 1t comes in joy, feels like I'm 
being supernaturally tempted. 
Christ, the Beginning and the End, the Alpha and· tlie Omega; Emmanuel, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace: if I believe this-­if I can feel the Holy Spirit enlivening me as though I were a woodland re­freshed by streams--how can I sit here looking at Time magazine while soul·s! literally ~nd figuratively, are crawling on their hands and knees, looking for a comfort they can put their arms around? 
0 temptation, temptation, what an annoyance you are. How easier it is to live in the demi-monde of doubt, seeing only the ~rays and darkness that color despair half-assented to, requiring only imperfect commit-

Rev. Robert Griffin 
ment, not disturbing me to move off 
my ars<:. Spiritual excitement, wisely 
dealt with, only proves once again that Thomas Merton should be taken small doses, and beans should be 
banished from one's supper. An ill­digested bean, understood as a rumbling of mysticism, could lead this bo~ c_>f summer to be ruined bymonasticism. 
All of us, as chimney sweepers, must come to dust, according to Shakespeare. I have a faith that tells me there is more to dust than what meets the eye. Yet I'm afraid of faith. Faith is not safe. Faith is not comfortable. Faith sometimes tells you there is a star in the sky that you are bound to follow. As Magi wives must have said, ''This is no time of the year to be chasing stars.'' Any­way, all the evidence seems on the side of doubt. As the newspspers point out every year, the star of Bethlehem could have been nothing more than Halley's comet. 
Ifl were a wise man, and I found out that I had been running after Halley's comet, I would feel that faith had tempted me to make a very dumb journey. 
Lately, I have seen a star, or I think I have. I don't think it's Halley's comet. I know it's not the star of Bethlehem. Sometimes you don't know where a star is leadmg you until you follow it. That is why the star I see is so disturbing, like an exper­ience of faith I had learned to live without. 
What'S All This, Then 
Gerard Curtin 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS seen through his dry humor, using Forum Cinema ii. That lovable University Park I. An adult romantichuman fallibility and subtle twists of rapscallion Tevye is with us a~ain in comedy about an affair between anplot to present his message. 
this charming tale of life m old aging Hollywood composer and the

Marnage, Ita/zan Style on Friday, 
Russia . 

most beautiful girl in the world.
November 30 at 7:00 and 9:00. 
.. .and justice For All" at 7:20 and Starring Dudley Moore, JulieLibrary Auditorium. An amusing CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 10:00. AI Pacino stars in this Andrews and Bo Derek.
comedy of married life .. .Italian style. 

hard-hitting comedy about a lawyer's

With Sophia Loren and Marcello Sleeping Beauty at 7:10, and 9:20, The Fish That Saved Pittsburgh at 
efforts to fight the judicial system. 

2:00, 4:00, 6:00, 8:00, and 10:00.
Forum Cinema I. Walt Disney's
Mastrioanni. In Search oj Historical jesus at 2:45, University Park II. A "comedy"
mag,ificent animated classic about
What's Up, Tiger Ltlly? on Friday, 
6:15, and 9:40. Town and Country I. 

about an astrologer who uses her giftthe tale + a young maiden's en­November 30 at 7, 9, and 11. 
(shown with Arabian Adventures in a~ 

to send a basketball team on achat, ~ l!te
Engineering Auditorium. A very double feature) A film about pre­winning streak ... influenced by tne
Fiddler on the Roo(at 7:00 and 9:45, 
funny film by Woody Allen, who has cisely what the title suggests. 
stars, of course. With Stockardtaken a Japanese spy fil.m and Starting Over at 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, Channing, Flip Wilson, and Jonathandubbed in his own English d1alog~e, 
7:45, and 9:45. Town and Country Winters.with often hysterical results. W1~h 
FII. Burt Reynolds stars in this film 
Mie Hanat and Akiko Wakabayask1. PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS
about a divorced man and the 

Singing in the Rain on Saturday and 
adjustments he is forced to make in 

Midwest Blues Festival on Friday
Sunday, December 1 and. 2 ~t 7, 9, his life. With Candice Bergen as his 
and II. Engineering Audu<?num .. A and Saturday, November 30 and
liberated "ex" and Jill Clayburgh as 

comical musical about the. mvenuon the new woman in his life. December 1 at 8:00 p.m. and 7:15 of the" talkies,': in which o·ne fema!e 
p.m., respectively. The blues come
Apocalypse Now at 6:30 and 9:10. 

star's reputano·n grows as another s to Notre Dam·e with many of the
River Park Theatre. Francis Ford 

shrivels. Praised for its good songs, Coppola's self styled "masterpiece" ''greats'' of the music in attendance. intelligent comedy, and its choreo­The Heiress, a play, on Friday and
about a man caught between his 

graphy. Starring Gene Kelly, Debbie Saturday, Novermber 30 and
civilization and savagery during the 

Reynolds, Rita Moreno, and Donald December 1 at 8:00p.m. O'Laughlin
Viet Nam war era. With Marlon 

O'Connor. Auditorium (SMC). Ruth and 
1:,1 Brando and Martin Sheen.

Main Tulsz' Tere Angan Ki on Augustus Goetzes' play about a
Running at 1:30, 3:30, 5:30,. 7:30, and 

Sunday. December 2 at 2:00 P·~· young woman's intense struggle for
· 9:30. Scottsdale Theater. A man Library Auditorium. Indian Society \ finally decides to do somethin~ for self-asset cion. · 
Film Concert on Sunday, December 2 at
his own pleasure rather than domg it 

Tokyo Story on Monday, December 3, 8:15p.m. Sacred Heart Church. The
for others and finds salvation through 

at 7:30. Washington Hall. This film running. starring Michael Douglas University Chorus and Orchestra by director Yasuji'ro Ozu centers on and Susan Ansbach. perform. h1s familiar themes of the family as 
1 1V at 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, and 9:45. 
[continued on page 19) 
Friday, November 30,·1979 -page 19 ·
The Observer ­
Strobes andShades ofBrown 

These pictures are not about the fleeting aspects ofcontemporary lt[e, but deal with the timeless appeal of the land. Only permanent efements are allowed into the pictures andthat leaves nearly everything out. The spartan contest suggests a symbol­ism ofsorts, as though those places and arrangements have a meaning beyond that which our minds, in the normal objective mode, are capable ofgrasping. 
The night is a time ofsolitude and quiet. Shape replaces detail and information yields to suggestion. Presences are felt instead ofseen. These are middle landscapes; half way between normal reality and wtlderness. Halfway between dark­ness and daytime. It is a time of sttllness loaded with potential. 
Richard Margolis 1978 

With these words, Richard Margolis introduced his one man photography show, now on display in Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's College. 
The show opened two weeks ago under the SUJ?ervision of Margolis who was visiting Saint Mary's College. Margolis gave informal presentations to students, explaining the techniques he had used to achieve certain effects in his photo­graphy. He also gave a presentation, highli~hting trends he would be followtng in his future work and critiqued the work of photography students at SMC. 
Margolis' photographs are distinc­tive and unusual. He photographs at night, leaving the shutter of his camera open to allow more light to enter and setting off strobe lights in the background of the picture to illuminate certain objects. In addi­tion, he tones the final prints brown to give them what he feels is a rich, warm quality. He mainly chooses to photograph images from nature, taking long walks in the evening for inspiration. 
The photographs themselves give the viewer a feelin~ of the night as an eerie yet gentle ume. The twisted tree trunk, the sidewalk, the hillside all have a static look to them. It is impossible to tell from the pictures whether they were taken during the day or the mght. Margolis' success­ful experiments with light have given the photographs this mystery and sense of tin1c!~s:;ness. OLe f":' 1 rather than sees what l.s in each 
picture. 
"We were very lucky to get 
Margolis' work and Margolis himself 
here," Michele Fricke, coordinator of 
Moreau Gallery. "He was so 
personal with the students. He was 
altogether a very personable and 
informal man." 
Fricke heard about Margolis 
through an artist who had already 
displayed her work at Moreau. 
Margolis sent a resume along with 
samples of his work and Fricke 
immediately wrote back, accepting 
his offer to display. 
"It was a simple case of word of 
mouth," Fricke explained. "The 
previous artist was happy with her 
treatment here and she . passed the 
word on to Margolis. That is part of 
the reason Moreau Gallery has built 
up such an excellent reputation for 
itself.'' 
Fricke's success with Moreau Gallery stems from many factors. She vtsits Chicago galleries two or three times a year to see shows and talk to directors. She also attends the College Art Association Convention every year where almost every artist in the country can be found. In addition, she has established profes­sional relationships with such gallery directors as Andre Zarre who works in New York. 
"It's really rather amazing how eager artists are to displaf' their work,'' Fricke said. ''Just put out the word that you're a gallery director looking for work to display and artists jump." 
Fricke feels it is very important for students to be exposed to artists and their work for some very practical reasons. 
"I think the students sometimes feel that they get artistic blocks just because they are students and thus inexperienced," said Fricke. "But you get someone in here like Margolis who tells the students he still has artistic blocks even with all his experience and the students realize that they are up against something very normal and natural. It's a most valuable lesson for them." 
With the high precedents Margolis has already set for himself through his current work, we anxiously await his future work. 
"We really look forward to having him back " Frick · 

[continued from page 18] 

PERFORMANCE--OFF CAMPUS 
The 0 'Nezlls on Tuesday, December 4 at 8:00 p.m. Wapatamunga Com­munity Playhouse. Kramer'S' amus­ing play about the life of a turn-of­the-century Irish family. Comedy is provided by children Sheila, Acme, 
Jimmy, Kathleen, and Maggie and the parents' efforts to keep up. Special appearance by Jerry, the Wonderdog. 
L------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
TELEVISION TELEVISION (PBS channel 34) 
Monday, D~cember 3 at 8:00. Dick Cavett Special Octagenarian blues singer Alberta Hunter is Cavett's guest. Miss Hunter, a legend in her own right, has worked with such renowned musicians as Louis Armstrong and Ethel Waters. 
AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES: Friday and Saturday, November 3L and December 1, the Dave Roberts Swingtet. 
-Mary Leavitt . 

RICHARD MARGOLIS PHOTOGRAPHY 
NOVEMBER 9 THROUGH DECEMBER 7, 1979 HAMMES GAUIRY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
ARTISTS' RECEPTION 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1979 7:00-9:00 P.M. 
Jazz Group Kicks OJ[ . 
Season 
An "expanded sound" will be offered to area jazz buffs tomorrow night, when the IUSB Jazz Ensemble performs its first concert of the season in the South Bend Centruy Center. The concert begins at 8:15 
p.m. in the Bendix Theatre. 
Now in its seventh year, thejazz 
Ensemble has been enlarge to 
include several strings and French 
horns. "This adds some color, giving 
the Ensemble. both a pops orchestra 
and a jazz band sound," said director 
Jery W. Lackey. 
· Lackey has been rhe Jazz Ensem­
ble's director since its formation. He 
is an adjunct faculty member at IUSB 
and a music teacher at Washington 
High School. 
Added to the Ensemble this season 
have been four French horns, a 
clarinet, a flute and an oboe. Two 
violins, a cello and a viola also have 
been added, according to Lackey, and 
their sounds will be "miked up" or 
amplified. 
''The Jazz Ensemble will play a 
tremendous variety of music,'' said 
Lackey, "from pop like the 'Theme 
from Barnaby Jones' by J~rry, G~ld­
smith to the very progressJve WJid­
Eyed Beasty from Oobly-Ahh'by 
Ladd Mcintosh and Dedication by 
Thad Jones.'' 
The group also will play music by George Gershwin and Henry Man­
. . ' 
CIOI. 
The public is invited to the concert. Admission is $2. 

Heiress at O',Laughlin
Tim HEIRESS, by Ruth and Augus­tus Goetz, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre's second major production of the 1979/1980 season opens tomor­row night in O'Laughlin Auditorium at SMC. 
Professor Frederic Syburg who dir­ected BLITHE SPIRIT for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Summer Theatre will be directing this classic drama. Senior theatre major Kathy Labarge will be serving as stage manager and Brian Wolfe, a junior theatre major will serve as technical ·director for THE HEIRESS. 
THE HEIRESS centers around the life of a shy young woman {Cathy Hurst) and her struggle for self­assertion. She is a wealthy heiress who ih inexperienced in wordly affairs .. Morris Townsend, (played by Jim O'Brien), a poor yet hig•1ly sophisticated socialite tries to take advantage of Catherine's innocence, as he -:ttempts to arrange a marriage between Catherine and himself. Catherine's father, Dr. Sloper (play­ed by John Davenport) uncovers the true motive behing Morris' intentions and quickly forbids marriage be­tween the two. Various conflicts ensue · between Catherine, Morris and JJ_er father. This highly dramatic classic builds to such a climax as to provide anyone an evening of enjoy­able entertainment. 
THE HEIRESS is being· staged in O'Laughlin Auditorium on the Saint Mary's College campus. Show dates are November 30, December 1,6, 7 and 8. For ticket information and reservations call the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4176. 
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 20 
By Tim Vercellotti ignoring "obvious" facts by claim that ''one of the tragedies served as counsel to national preoccupying themselves with of the existence of abortion organizations, congressmen,other issues. today is the fact that more is and several states on the issue. 
Noonan went on to say that known about the developing He is also a noted author in theNoonan what separates the United fetus than ever before. " field, his most recent book 
States from other cultures that ''It has been proven that the being "A Private Choice:] ohn Noonan, former profes­
permit abortions is the pre­sex and genetic bearing of a Abortion in America in thesor at the Notre Dame Lw 
School, questioned sence of an elite that supports being are determined at con­Seventies.''
America's tolerance of abortion last night, this practice. He named the ception. This includes the Another reason given for the
speaks out 
saying, ''In a society where media, , the judiciary system, presence of DNA, which is the widespread practice of abortion the Civil
great efforts are made to insure American Liberties blueprint of life. After twenty­was taken from the writings of as painless a slaughter for cats Union, Planned Parenthood, five days, the heart begins to Rene Girard. Girard wrote that 
and members of the. medical pump blood, and after forty­
and dogs, how can men destroy every society has a tendency 
profession. • three days, the brain begins to towards violence and humanthis life? "
against 
''This elite spans the political transmit electrical impulses. sacrifice. Noonan stated thatNoonan's lecture last night, 
S(>Onsored by ND-SMC Right to spectrum, from the liberal law­"It has been _proven that the abortion is a form of release for title yers of the ACLU to the this tendency.
Life, was "The Abortion sex and genetic bearing of a 
Culture.'' He said that the conservative doctors. This being are determined at con­Noonan called on the audience abortion group forms a strong coalition for help in educating people on
number of abortions is m­ception. This includes the pre­
of power, that has ruled the abortion. "People can no
creasing because people are sence of DNA, which is the
United States,'' said Noonan. looser ignore the obvious facts, 
blueprint of life. After twenty­
According to Noonan, abor­their eyes must be opened so
five days, the heart begins to
tions can be performed almost that they may make responsible 
pump blood, and after forty­
any time during a pregnancy. moral decisions.
days, the brain besins to
He mentioned vacuums, ''In spite of the fact that many
ACCOUNTING AND transmit electrical impulses. A
Carroll poisons, and delivery be caesa­state legislatures and members 
few months into the pregnancy, 
FINANCE MAJORS 
rean section (in hopes that the ofCongress have become aware 
the nervous becomes sensitive 
LET US HELP YOU PLAN being might die) as various of the abortion controversy,
to pain. This qualifies the fetus 
AHEAD TO BECOME A CPA methods. "On top of this, more must be done. Legislators
for ~~mbership in the human Our successful students represent 
to discuss doctors have been known to that profess Christian beliefs
race.

performs experiments on be­cannot, with a clear conscience, 
Noonan stated that over one 
mgs that are in the process of support abortion. More politi­
1J3oFUSA 
million abortions were perfor­
dying," stated Noonan. cians must be educated so that
med in the United States last
In response to the idea that a they can make the right
'good life' 
year. He gave several reasons
fetus is not a human being, and choices. Once that is accom­
why such a large number have
therefore no murder is commit­plished, the ami-abortion 
taken place.

Fr. E. Gerard Carroll, instruc­
ted, Noonan cited the word kill, response will grow stronger."
"We live in a society where ator in the General Program of 
which is defined as the destruc­Noonan reminded the audi­
lot of importance is placed on
Liberal Studies at Notre Dame, be it an
tion of any creature, ence that advances have been
individual liberty and control ofwill speak on ''The Beauty of 
insect or a man. He concluded made in the campaign against
one's life. An unwanted preg­
the Good Life: Aesthetic As­
that abortions are indeed abortion, and the effort must
nancy can inhibit thispects of Revelation" Wlit8PP6W 

killings. not let up. ''If education
freedom.''

at 8 p.m. in the library lounge. 
Noonan continued with the continues, with the help of God 
a ''The desire for personal liber­Carroll, who recently held we can continue in our workty taken to such an extentresearch fellowship at the Insti­
until all human spirits areborders on atheism. This is an
tute of Hisher Studies, safe."
outright rejection of belief or
Sorbonne, Pans, says his lec­
• • Thefts 

dependence in a God,'' claimed
ture will treat the confluence of • Noonan.
the ~ord of God and the Noonan has been involved in
INDIANAPOLIS 317-846-5591 experience of the beautiful. Bernstein
[continued from page 3] the anti-abortion movementSOUTH BEND 219-287-8878 Carroll was born in Loughduff, since the Supreme Court deci­County Cavan, Ireland, and is a improve the burglar alarm sys­
sion in 1973 which ruled that
priest of the diocese of Ardagh tem at Sacred Heart.
CLASSES BEGIN DEC 10 
state laws banning abortion lectures onand Clonmacnois. He holds He advised students to help 
were unconstitutional. He has
degrees in philosophy and theo­stop such robberies by calling~~~~~~ logy, including a doctorate, Security if they believe a person 
from the Lateran University in looks ''suspicious.'' humanities 
Rome. He is now completing a
CPA Pope names
''A lot of people hesitate to

Ph.D. in literature and spirit­
call Security,"he said, "but

uality at Trinity College, Dub­
REVIEW 
they check up on those things."

lin. by Margie Brasszf 
He added that the department Dunne 
SMC News Editor 
can look into the incidents and possible see a pattern that will 

help find the suspect. asconsultor Professor Richard Bernstein of Haverford College, a leadingFr. ] ohn S. Dunne, professor authority in social and politicalof theology at Notre Dame has philosophy, talked last night at been named by Pope]ohn Paul Saint Mary's on "Science, Hu­
Profs go 

II as a consultor to the Vatican's manities and Politics.'' He has Secretariat for Non-Christians. a Ph.D. from Yale Universitv The secretariat, headed by and was awarded the E. Harris
to lunch Sergio Cardinal Pignedoli, pro­Harbison Award for Gifted motes studies and dialogue for Teaching in 1970. the purpose of increasing mutu­Referring to philosophy, al understanding and contact Bernstein prefaced his lecture
Monday 

between Christians and non­by saying-;­Christians. ''I think we are living in a very exciting time, a period in which 
LThe Take-A-Prof-to-Lunch 

there is a great deal of 
program will begin next. Mon­

groping--and things breaking
day. Students may pick up Rabbi Peri down. What is excitins about 
co-ex tickets at the Student 

all this is that we are livmg in a
Government Office on the assumptions are
period when
second floor of LaFortune. 

being questioned. This opens
to speak
The co-ex ticket entitles a 

up new waves of thinking in
professor to a lunch with stu­

science, humanities and poli­
dents in the north or south 

tiCS.''
dining halls. A minimum of on prayer His talk focused on similarities

five students must take the 

between the new ways of
professor to lunch. When 

thinking about these threepicking up the ticket, students Rabbi Pinchas Peli, a visiting fields within the fields them­
must sign the names and ID associate professor at Notre selves. Bernstein specificallynumbers of the five students Dame, will discuss "Prayer and 
noted the debated of the last
who will accompany the profes­the Pray-er in ] udiac Tradi­few decades on the limits of sor. One off-campus studer.r tion" at 8 p.m. teli!Uff8lli in the rationality and legitimacy with­
may be included in the group ot Galvin Auditorium. 

in the various fields.
five and this student nees not Peli is chairman of the depart­"What I've been struck by in
be on a meal plan. ment of]ewish Thought ar Ben my own experiences as I
The program, funded by the Gurion University. He is also worked through a number of
Administration, is being spon­director of the Abraham]oshue these controversies is that I had sored by the Student Govern­Meschel Institute of]erusalem a sense ofdeja vu: When going ment. According to Co-ex and is a specialist in the from science to humanities, theCommissioner Mike Flynn, the Talmud, modern ] ewish same issues and criticisms on program ~as initiated because thought and ] ewish liturgy. At them were being discussed inlast year s program was so Notre Dame Peli conducts Pray­each field,'' Bernstein said. 
popular among students and er in ] udaism and Religious He spoke of the different
faculty. Language and Liturgy studies. 
philopophies of science and
Flynn said the purpose of the The lecture is sponsored by humanities, referring to the 
I 

rogra.IJ_l is tO ~\li"thef S~dent/ the theology department and is . amlrv IDICq?rtcQ!II;>...._ open to the public. 
. .... (continued on page 21) 





The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979-page 21 
• • • Lecture The Observer will publish' 
------------re-g-ar-d-in_g_s_cl-.e-nt-ifi-Ic_t_h-ou_g_h_t-ar_e_c_e_s_.-..-It_i_s-im_p_o_rt_a_nt_t_o_s-ee-the it's last issue before break 
[continued from page 20] 
works of Compte, Kuhn, and 
Mary Hesse to illustrate those 
f~~1d~b~~~eb~tw~~~:i~~~~ga~d
humanities concerning the 
~!J~:~~c~~~~nowledge in each • • As science has made pro­gress! humanities has in-. creasmgly beh on the defensive in the sense of the challenge:
'Produce your credentials.' Humanities attempts to imitate science or make legitimate claim to knowledge even though it doesn't fit into the definition of scientific know­
ledge." 
Bernstem sees that many of 
the new points made in science 


• • • Crime 
[continued fro1 m page 5] 
that they rarely come around, even when called. But, at any rate, virtually no off-campus theft or mugging victim has reported his crime to the Uni­versity--either Luther's office or Security--and this leaves the University with inadequate in­formation to work with, accord­ing to Luther. · 
While some off-campus vic­tims are talking of forming "vigilante" forces and "baiting potential thieves, Luther is unaware of the rising tensions. 
''This has not been made known to me," Luther said. ' 'lknow there have been some problems on St. Louis St. witha a gang of youths, and I know the South Bend Police Depart­ment is aware of it, but I certainly would like to talk to these students before they did anything like that." 
On the other hand, the off-campus students are una­ware of procedures undertaken by the University to help ease the situation. "I just don't feel like the Universitv has lifted a finger to help,'' ~aid one stud­ent who preferred not to be named. "They don't even seem to know what is going on.'' 
the same points the humanities field is making about itself. 
"The new image of science 
:lf:~rri:: :i~e~g~~nfti:s,?'eh~
said. 

t~;~~ngel~~ 0 ~e;d~~p~~7;~~r 
Bernstein described it in terms of the "Cartesian anxiety": "I think Descartes formulated it 
beautifully. That is, ultimately 
either we are faced with the belief that there is a foundation to our knowledge or ·we are faced with radical skepticism where everything is a matter of opinion " 
He says this has not only 
intellectual but ;ilso religious,
moral and political consequen­
''That is simply not the case," Luther says. "I would like to get together with a group of these students and tell them what we've been doing. The frustrating thing is how do we get this information to the students. I know that we made an effort to publicize our last meeting and only 3 5 l?eople showed up. We are trymg to make them aware of the situa­tion, how to protect their be­longings and we are trying to get, ~hem to get in contact with us. 
Both the students and the University agree that the prob­lem lies in communication, or a lack of it. While student report that tensions are rising in the tract ten area, the University is unaware of the depth of the problem. And while the Univer­sity takes what few steps it can, the students are not aware of the actions. 
' 'During Christmas vacation we will be making a more concerted effort to try to get student involved in programs such as neighbor watch,'' Luth­er said. "But in the meantime it's like trying to chip away at marble: you don't make much progress.'' 

Picture Show"Fn. 
t. 12:00 
-, 

FRESHMAN I-----REGISTERS 
available now in Student Union Ticket Office 
$1.50 Softcover $2.00 Hardcover 
Ticket office hours 12:15-4:00 Mon-Fri 
sense in which this basic anziety has 'shaped 

thought on Frt·. Dec. 7th .There 
since Descartes," he added, 

'd~fi~~n!~go~~a~n:~7~:t~: !~u;~ will be a special sect/ion of 
are faced with 
[continued on page 22] 
K of c plans 
admiss~lons 
.The Knights of Columbus will hold the final Admission De­
gree of this semester Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Knights of Columbus Hall. All Catholic men wishing to join the group 
should attend. 
Around-the-clock quiet hours are now in effect in the Council study lounge, through finals 
week. The game room and television will be available to all 
members, and there will also be refreshments. 

CLASSIFIED
CHR

ISTMAS 
. l
GREETINGS T 1 1 .. · 
. 0 p ace your persona ln :, th• ct• t th
lS se ton1 come 0 e l\' 
Observer offt·ce between h h £ 1 0 2 
t e OUrS 0 •
F •d M d
rt ay On ay T d w d d
UeS ay e nes ay deadline is 2:00 on 
Wed. Dec. 5th 
r-================================================= 
~Continental Restaurant Systems 1979 


The most delicious, most sumptuous dinners our new menu could offer ... Luscious entrees come cqmplete with salad, vegetable, bread, and your choice of baked potato, rice, or french fries ... Our modest prices complete this tasty picture . . . So add a little spice to your dining. 
INRATION FIGHTER: 

DINNER FOR $5.45 
When you're really hungry, order. a complete dinner with all the trimmings at a price that tastes as good as the food ...There's succulent prime rib, fresh fish, and saucy teriyaki chicken ...It's more than a 
mouthful ... 
Sunday Noon to 4p.m. Mon. thru. Thurs. Sp.m. to 7p.m. 



Those tasty creations that11 tickle your palate and tantalize· your pocketbook...Imagine th£ sirloin supreme, top sirloin covered with Monterey Jack cheese, sauteed mushrooms, onions and peppers ...Or juicy beef brochette, 
charbroiled sirloin bits marinated in a delicious 
burgunl:ly sauce ...There's even a fresh catch of the day for seafood lovers...They must be tried to be believed ... 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, 272-5478 
Phon.· for reservations 
TM 

i 
··i 
l l l 
~·· 

The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 22 



The Daily Crossword 

@ 1979 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 11/30/79 All Rights Reserved 

PRICED 
Available at 
I~IIVEI~ (lillY I~E(OI~DS 
SOUTH BEND AND MICHIGAN CITY 
• , r • ?••<'a-Y . 6 • ' • • .
Ill'•. T. • • 
ACROSS  28  Unctuous  
Rosemary,  character  
for one  32  To  -(unan­ 
5 Herring­ imously  
like fish  33  Rude dis­ ·  
10  Canine call  missal  
14  Tel Aviv  34  Caught  
airline  35  Words on  
15  Beauty salon job  a poster, 70's style  
16  Jai­ 39  Containing  
17  Live in  nitrogen  
constant  40  Approaches  
conflict,  41  Oman's  
70's style  neighbor  
20  Distinction  42  Pain  
21  Neglects  reliever  
22  Carp's  44  Jury duty  
cousin  notice  
23  Lot  46  Unaspirated  
25  Serviceman  consonant  
· 62 Hostages 63 Think 


Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


••• Lecture 
(continued from page 21) 

He says this has not only intellectual but also religious, moral and political conse­quences. "It is important to see the sense in which this basic anxiety has shaped thought since Descartes,'' he added, explaining that without a foundation or grounding there is no real knowledge. He suggested that in these areas of science, humanities and poli­tics, there is now a reaction against the Cartesian frame­work. 
• Sales 

(continued from page 4 ] 
three days. 
All of the students interviewed who made the !20 down payment at one of the meetings later cancelled the purchase but Whittenger said that only 40 percent of all original signees do cancel. 
McDonnell said that when students are called "they don't realize that they're inviting a salesman." Dean ] acob, a resident of St. Ed's Hall whose Monday meeting was cancel­led, noted, "they never men­tioned (in the call) what they were doing or that they were selling anything, just somethins about 'Life After College.' " 
Another student noted that his caller explicitly offered him ''an all-expense paid trip to Miami." Whittenger said he was unaware that thesetactics were being used by AMA 's phone representatives. 
47 Before bed 
or block 48 Sing softly 51 Plato's 
teacher 55 Unblock, 
70's style 58 Textile dye 59 Incredible 
bargain 60 Raison d'­61 30's art 
DOWN Derisive laugh 
2 Ancient 
land 3 Shankar 4 Mixing 5 Posture 6 Crown's 
poor relative 7 Witty 
Martha 8 Hardwood 9 Social 
event 10 Racketeer's collectors 11 His,to 
Pierre 12 Entranced 13 .Buss 18 Nasty 19 In-at all 
23 
24 25 26 27 
28 
29 
30 31 
33 36 37 
38 
43 
44 
45 47 
48 49 
50 51 52 53 
54 56 
57 

Pitches a fast ball Axillary Taj-Startle Spoke end­lessly Paint pigment Islands off Italy Subdued Songwriter Jules Cudgel Purpose No: Ger. Like a mummy Panay city Certain recordings Merit East Indian tree Dressed Frenchman's name Of the ear Murdered Carry Department in France Hold back Venomous snake Dirgible classifica­tion: abbr. 
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1979-page 23 

with Bird and Attorney Bob· After Auerbach passed, Bird ''The flags flying in Boston make tradition. I love basket-Woolf they came to terms on a was asked whether it was Garden -don't mean anything to ball. It's fun. I enjoy five-year, $3;25 million contract ~omething special to wear Celt­me," he replied. "That's everything about the gai?e." that made Bird the highest-paid tc green. tradition, but I don't want to rookie in NBA history . 
• • • Bird 
So far he's been worth every penny. Has he had any problems
[continuedfrom page 24] adjusting to the NBA? • • . Irish 
who had expressed his inten­tion to remain in school one more year. 
"Other teams were scared to wait a year, but a year goes by awful quick," said Auerbach. The Celtics then had exactly one year to sign Bird or else lose his draft rights, and after 11 1/2 months of negotiations 
On the Air 
NDvalpo basketball on WSND-AM 64 1:25 
p.m. with Pat Toomey and Jim Soisson. 
NO-Wisconsin hockey on WNDU-AM 15 8:30 
p.m. Friday and Saturday 
"I think basketball is the easy part," he said. "But the public feels you gotta do so much. The smart alecks think you should sign autographs all day. The thing that hassles me is I can't go into public. People hound me for autographs when I eat. In college you were left alone, but here ... " 
Does he like playing in Bos­ton? Just as the question was asked, Auerbach walked by. 
Bird  paused  and  looked  at  
Auerbach,  then  smiled  as  he  
said,  ''I'm  tickled  to  be  in  

Boston, because as long as Red Auerbach is here, everything is going to be smooth." 
[continued from page24J 
games. That latter figure, how_ever, will_ change to seven this weekend. Senwr captam Greg Meredith will miss tonight's game because of a Rhodes Sc~olarshii? interview up in Toronto. He will back m the lmeup Saturday. And Scott Cameron, whose wife is expecting as baby, will remain home. 
"I think we've come up with every possible reason to be missing players," smiled Smith. The fact that he can still smile after all his team has been through says a lot for him. 
Most Irish players probably c.an't remember the last time they skated with their regular line­mates. The big reunion still may not come for a while. They have overcome many obstacles so far, and amazingly enough, have also remained 

in the thick of things in the WCHA. 
''This team has faced more than its share of ad­versity," said Smith, "and the players--every single one of them--have done a remarkable job. they have shown a lot of character on the ice and have never sunk low in spirits. That says a lot for them.'' 
IRISH ICINGS~-Both games of the Wisconsin series will be broadcast by WNDU-AM (1500), beginning at 8:30 South Bend time ... the next home contest for Notre Dame will be Sunda) afternoon, Dec. 9, against non-league foe Western Michigan .. .Irish players Pat Devine and Dave Lucia will be playing before their • hometown fans this weekend in Madison ... Greg Meredith and Tom Michalek are tied for the team lead in scoring with :3 points apiece. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obstrvtr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
4tickets to Dec. 8Chicago Who concert. Undergraduates wanted for two short­
What I wanted most was love in a

Tom 233-9129. term research projects. Both tasks deal
Notices S.G. 
straight, straightforward way. "I wanted 

with assessing student opinions.
you, not as you could be had I made you

For Sale: Half Price United coupon. Best Involves 2Y2 hours work and can be com­
For Rent 
up but the way I found you, no different

Used Book Shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun., offer. Gerry 277·5072. pleted in just one day. Also, can be ar­
from the way you really are."

9·7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. ranged to fit your schedule.
Student house for rent. second semester. But, I'm convinced the earth will notal­
Niles. 683·2888. For Sale: 1973 Toyota Carolla, 4door, 35 Contact Bob at ext.3886 or 277-3903 for
Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call low even its truest lover to belong to it.
MPG, Air conditioning, FM-8track stereo scheduling.
272-1729 after 5:00. Now or straight away. I cannot care a
Defroit Bus!!! Excellent condition. 232-5484 or 288-6350 
little for you. I love you only enough to

Round trip $20.00. Sign-up Tuesday Hey Ann,
Room for rent. Mature, clean. responsi­love you all the way.
Dec. 4th, 7:oopm [Lafortune Theatre] or Kenwood amp and speakers for sale. Call · Congrats on the win. 18 pts., huh?
ble student only. Furnished kitchen and Stockman
call Mary 288-5465. Bernie 287·0864.
laundry priveleges. Call 289-0103 nights 
and weekends or 232-6181 days. Dave Johnston-Save This Ad! Spice up your next party
If you are interested in or have ideas con­For Sale: 681mpala V-8, PS, PB air, very 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BUDDY! BE PRE­with the semi-precious stones, a unique
cerning MaCha, its goals, or its future, clean. $550.00. PH. 233-2395 after 5:00.
Room for rent--near rides. $45.00 per PARED TO CELEBRATE TONIGHT AT Oriental dance experience. Reasonableattend ameeting in the Office of Chicano month. 233-1329. GOOSE'S! YOU'RE A SUPER GUY! rates! 291-8215 evenings.
Studies, 11th floor library, this Friday, 3 WHO tickets for sale. Call1824. 
LITTLE GOOSEthe 30th at 4:00pm, or call Francisco at For Pam,Furnished Apt. for rent, kitchen facilities,

277-2329. HOLIDAYSALE! $25worthoffreebooks 
very close to campus. $175/month. Call Pal-The best things in life are really sim­
to first place winner plus 2nd and 3rd

289-5406, 272-2720 after 5:30. Have a nice day!!! plest things we borrow. Like time.Laugh­
Alterations for men and women prizes. Also many gift items:books, book 
ter, tears, anger, all shared with friends. 
on clothing. Call 255·6275. sets, calendars, and games. Special sales
3 Bedroom efficiency home, clean and Happy Birthday, Suzie! No, I haven't Friends like you. So let's just close our
throughout the season. Visit PAN,

comfortable, partially furnished, all gas. found a hole to China yet. That lamp eyes and open our hearts and then try to
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. DORA'S Books, 937 South Bend, Ave,
Area Twychenham & Corby. 287-7975 better be plugged In when I get home! pretend, that the times like these. with 
near Eddy. 

Chrissie your dear friend, will never end.
after 5:00.

Will do typing--reasonable-neat-accurate Call 287·5162. December 7th? An Opening Farewell. ..
We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a Cindy Zinger has reached her 20th year. day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling She really likes to party--so help her out
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. Mrs. 
Tickets 

Angela Walker:
Rent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd., Mi­and buy her a shot at happy hour on Fri.
Burnore. Near campus. 272-3134. 
Thirteen an unlucky number?! Not so!! 13 months of joy and now one month of a 
shawaka. Ind. 255;2323. at Goose's!! 
HALL ATHLETIC COMMISSIONERS are Grateful Dean ticket(s) needed for Chi­Should you forget your hat you will be for­promise for life. You wear my ring andreminded that requests for use of Stepan cago. Monday or Wednesday night. Call my heart.
given.

for next semester are due Friday. Pat 233-5686.
Wanted 
Should you forget you tie you will be let in love Jim But should you forget the Hat and Tie
For Sale: Student Season B-ball ticket. My dearest Belle,
it would be a sin.
Pagded seat. best offer. Call 1057.

Need ride to ISU (Normal, IL. vicinity) ASecret Admirer Thank you for the lovely nilght last week
Lost&Found 
DEC. 7, Barry 2106. What a way to break in a birthday boy!
Desperately need 2 Valpo tix for friends 

Looking forward to doing it again.
TONIGHTfrom New Orleans, Tom 1181.

Need ride to Green Bay or Milwaukee Girls remember Howard Hall's HAT All my love, Nov. 30. Call Nancy 4-1-4220. AND TIE PARTY. 9:00 pm at the Pete Lomez
Found: Contact lens in case. Call 6635. Desperately Need: 2 tickets for UCLA Knights of Columbus Hall. 
Need ride to Rochester, NY for Christ­basketball game. Call Jerry 232-6296. Mary Beth,Lost: Dungeons and Dragons players mas. Call Jim 1539. John Harner, Can I give you a kiss goodnight?handbook on first floor Grace. Five'dollar For Sale: 1 student basketball season 
Hello! Long time no see. Hope you are Love. Michael
reward for return. no questions asked. ticket. Padded seat in Senior section.
Need one rider to Oregon. Will leave Dec. no longer angry with me. Let's build a
Return to 309 Grace. Phone 1621. Best offer. 8932.
20 or 21st. Call 233-5686 after 5:00pm. bridge of friendship, not walls of resent­A Nazz Presentation: 
ment. Take care. See ya 'round. Rock and Roll with CRYSTAL. Lafortune
Lost: SR-56 Texas lnsturments calculator. Need VALPO Basketball tickets. Call
Beach lovers I Part time student sales re­Teri Ballroom on Saturday, 9-12. 
Last used in the Physics lecture room Steve 8907.
presentative position available for Spring P.S. Show downstairs, too!
#118 N.S.H. If you have found it, please 
semester. Job involves promoting high How can you go to the B-P Formal tonight
call 6824--Reward. quality sun trips on campus for commis­Need 2 Valparaiso tickets. Call (SMC) when some poor guy's nose is all "bent Mark Perry sion and free travel. Call or write for an out of shape"? Hope you have ahappy 22nd birthday--~
5278. Lost: White knit wrap around sweater 
application. Summit Travel, Inc., Park­with many more to follow-­
purchased during Senior Class trip in Need 2 GA 's to any upcoming home
ada Plaza, Suite 11, Columbia, Missouri, Tammy-Beth
Acapulco. Last seen hanging on the hooks basketball game. Call Brad at 1052.
65201 ' (800) 325-0439. I'm getting in tune, right in tune for
by South Dining Hall 
going mobile next Friday. People try to All SMC SGphomores interested in work­
on the right side. Yours is still there if 
Female roommate to share partially turn. put us down ... ing on the production crew for the talent you picked mine up by mistake. Please 
apartment. Call Lee days: 283-7458, eve­Baba O'Reily show for Parent's weekend, there will becall Cindy 7993 after midnight. nings: 277-1654. Personals Paula-a meeting Tuesday, Dec. 4th from 7:30­1saw your personal the other day and. 8:00 in room 203 H. C. Please attend! 
Lost: Small gold Serpentine bracelet 
WANTED: Riders to N.W. Iowa for John H. was wondenng if you could look me in the Questions call Anita II 4280. 
Monday night. Call Aileen 6944. Christmas. To share usual. Call Dean . Apology accepted. Actually, I thought eye and say that. 232-1150. you got food poisoning and died. Glad to GALVIN
Lost: A white Linear Algebra math book hear you lived. To my favorit Happy Hour buddy,
and notebo0k on SMC campus. If found Ride needed to Daytona Beach, Fla. for Linda Don't miss the Midwest Blues Festival Happy 22!!!!.. Tramps like US...Let please call Martha (SMC) 5202 
Christmas. Can leave Dec. 18. Call this weekend. For tickest call the Student the Good Times Roll. .. 
Damian at 1197. Kathy Dowling is 20 yrs. old and v~ry Love.
Union Ticket Office. 

much awoman! She'll be at Happy Hour Pam on Friday at Goose's--buy her a birthday 
Taking a leave of absence--going West? 

Found: Before break in Lafortune, small shot! Call 288-8275. 
Dear Mark
For Sale 
silver pen with the initial "8" attached Happy Birthday to awild and crazy but 
by a small chain. Lost and Found-ADM. Aunt Gina, C.S. especially wonderful guy!!Bldg. Congratulations to you and Uncle Brian.
For Sale: Sony TC-558 Reel to Reel. Auto Your smile is like the sunrise Love,
Let's hear it for the Grotto! Love-­

Reverse tape deck. Three motors, six on a tranquil country day One of your SMC chick admirers 
Lost: C-3 Parking Lot, Tuesday before heads and many other features. Two sure Your Freshman cellar dwellers Your eyes sparkle like the brightest star MargieThanksgiving break. Stocking hat, hand Must sell, call on aclear moonlit night
589-S MICS Included.
knitted. brown, loose-fitting. Reward of­Jack, Your hair is like a majestic willow
Gene at 1743 or 288-7387.
fered. Call 289-5964. Hope you have a "real" swim on your Blowing in agentle breeze BIG 18th! Welcome to the world of ma· Can't you see you're driving me crazy
For Sale: Oversized Chair--great for any lure adults.
Lost: A black. "TOTES" Umbrella. the dorm room! $10. Call the 911 Club at 1771 Won't you please set me right
Monday before Thanksgiving break. Lost Heds& Mio Would you like adate with me someplace in O'Shag. If you found it. For Sale:-15 watt/channel technics re­For this Friday night please call 8585 after 11:00 pm. Love and Kisse~ P.L.
ceiver---$90. JOHN FERROLI · -New Pioneer Cassette Tape Deck--$100 You can do 11!!!800 800 800 800 BOO 800Lost clothes on hangers behind Zahm -Technics manual turntable w/ADC cart-Em Dages:
Hall. Call Rick at 288-2023. ridge--$50. Some say he's a student?
You know you canl!l 

Call Scoop at 1771. GOOD LUCK (heaven forbid!)
Lost: One navy blue down parka. If you Some say he's a janitor
BETH

have any idea of its whereabouts, please Some may even say he's a philosopher
Pair of B&W DM2-A speakers. $450 (reg I may have pull, but Ialso came to type at
call 8502. $850). Call 232·8783 ~Iter 6 pm. but all I can say is happy birthday and
1 a.m.--l'm crazy, if you hadn't already 
let's party hard an the big day!!
noticed. 

j......;.;...,j~...;...;,:~----..;..-....;.....; 
. .. ____________..,.. .:..•....___..,..,.._____________________________________ ..;_.............
~· 



MADISON, Wis.--The last time the Notre Dame hockey team came here to play Wiscon­sin, it came reasonably close to having to pay property taxes. The Irish would up staying eight days after ending the regular season against the 9adgers and opening up the playoffs three days Llrer against the same club in the same arena. 
Well, the only way the Irish 'might get an extended visit to Madison this year is if they get snowed in. The playoffs are a distant speck on the horizon, and this weekend's series ends only the first half of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association season, not the full slate. 
Coach Lefty Smith's club faces off against the Badgers· tonight and tomorrow at the Dane County Memorial Coliseum. Notre Dame and Wisconsin, although posting different league records of 4-4 and 5-5, respectively, are tied for fourth place in the WCHA with a similar .500 winning percentage (because of an unbalanced league schedule, WCHA standing are deter­mined by percentage this season, not points.) 
Smith must be breathing a sigh of relief that the final league series of the first half of the season is finally here. The Irish have limped 
WCHA Watch 

Irish look for ntidseason relief 
Brian Beglane 


the schedule, and after the Wisconsin series, face just two more non­league contests. Then it's timeout for school­work. 
And how do Smith and his skaters spell relief? E-x-a-m W-e-e-k. 
''This is the most injury riddled team I have ever coached at Notre Dame," said Smith. "Probably anywhere. Things have just really been piling up on us. 
"It'll sure be nice to get some time off and hopefully get healthy again." 
Only three players out of Notre Dame's top 20 have remained completely healthy so far, and only nine have managed to appear in all 11 
[continued on page 23] 

Friday, November 30, 1979 -page 24 

J',... .:~ 
Greg Meredith wzllmiss Fr-iday's game at Wisconsin because ofan interview for a Rhodes Scholarship [photo by john MacorJ. 
----:~-====·====~==

Sports Briefs. _ ______, 
I 

Bird revives that Celtic n~agic
Belles win season opener 
(AP) -Larry Bird stood about "He's good for the team and second even though he is a Ann Armstrong and Nancy Nowalk scored 18 points apiece 25 feet from the basket, to the the league," said Celtics center prolific scorer from both inside ro help lead the St. Mary's basketball team to a 63-61 win left of the key, holding the ball Dave Cowens, who is playing and out. Bird is averaging 19.1 
over Indiana Central at Indianapolis. Cheryl Sweeney also over his head with both hands. with renewed enthusiasm this points, 10.0 rebounds and 4. 5 grabbed 12 rebounds for the Belles in their season opener. 
As Boston Celtics teammate season. ''I'm sure his presence assists per game.
Saint Mary's travels to Lisle, Ill., this Saturday to face Gerald Henderson cut to the is why we're drawing." "He shoots, he rebounds, he Illinios Benedictine College at 5 p.m. The home opener for hoop from the left side, Bird And why they're winning. passes, but the thing I like most the Belles will be next Thursday, as they face Notre Dame at looked to his right -away from The Celtics, coming off dismal about him is the way he goesAngela at 7 p.m. 
Henderson. 32-50 and 29-53 records the last about his business without Then, just as the New York two seasons, have been at or complaining," said Celtics Player shadowing Henderson near the top of the Atlantic President Red Auerbach. 
relaxed his guard for a split Division since the start of the "He's the first to arrive at second, assuming the play was season. practice and the last to leave. COLUMBUS• OHIO (AP)-Fourrh-ranked Ohio State, led by 
Buckeyes win exhibition 
going to the other side of the Bird has been called "a big But even I didn't think he'd be Herb Williams' 25 points, nearly blew 17-point leadsThurs­
court, Bird whipped a brilliant Cousy," and it's a description this good this soon." day night before holding on for a 74-73 college basletball 
bounce pass behind his back to that fits. Like Bob Cousy, the Auerbach can smile now, be­exhibiuon victory over the Athletes in Action. The Buckeyes, 
the open Henderson driving to great Celtic guard of the 1950s cause it was his bold move in flaying their first contest of the season, appeared headed for 
the basket. and early.1960s, Bird moves the the 1978 college draft and his an easy victory when they built leads of 62-45 and 64-47 
Henderson missed the layup, ball so well and so easily that he persistence in negotiations that midway through the second half. The more experience 
but the sellout crowd of 19,591 makes his teammates look landed Bird for the Celtics. Athletes rallied and cut the margin to 72-69 with 54 seconds 
at Madison Square Garden better. That, more than any­Five other teams had chances left. Caner Scott's basket with 33 seconds to play proved to 
gave Bird a long, loud ovation thing else, is a test of a great to pick Bird before Boston's be the winning margin, lifting Ohio State into a 74-691ead. A 
for his dazzling feed. player -the ability to bring out turn came up in the draft, but basket and two free throws by Brad Hoffman, a former North 
It's the kind of reception he's the best in those around him. Portland, Kansas City, Indiana, Carolina star, cut the margin to 74-73. Ralph Drollinger, 
been getting all around the Bird plays basketball the way New York and Golden State all former 7-2 UCLA star, missed a field goal try with two 
National Basketball Associa­purists say the game should be elected to go for immediate seconds remaining that would have given the Athletes an 
tion. The Celtics have been played. The 6-foot-9 rookie help rather than risk a No. 1 upset victory. The Athletes dropped their third straight 
drawing near-capacity crowds from Indiana State is a con­pick on Bird, a junior eligible contest to college teams and fell to a 13-3 record this seaso~. 
wherever they go, and the big summate team player, always 
[continued on page23]
Bird is the reason. lookin to ass first and shoot 
Observer staffers make final picks before bowl games 
Army 
vs. Navy 
Alabama 
at Auburn 
' Pittsburgh at Penn State 
Florida at Miami of Florida 
Texas al Texas A&M 
Houston 
at Rice 
Vanderbilt at Tennessee 
Valparaiso at Notre Dame 
~ 

Mark Perry Sports Editor 103-41,.715 
Navy 
by 20 
Alabama by 7 
Pittsburgh by 2 

Miami of Florida by3 
Texas by6 
Houston by 18 
Tennessee by 17 
Notre Dame by 25 


Paul Mullaney Asst. Sports Editor 96-48, .667 
Navy 
by 14 
Alabama by 1 
Penn State by 12 

Miami of Florida by10 
Texas 
by 12 
Houston by20 
Tennessee by 20 
Notre Dame by33 

Beth Huffman Women'sSports Editor 102-42, .708 
Navy 
by 11 
Alabama by3 
Pittsburgh by7 
Miami of Flor;da by7 
Texas 
by 16 
Houston by9 
Tennessee by22 
Notre Dame by40 
Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 100-44, .695 
Navy by 10 
Alabama by 14 
Penn State by 1 
Florida by3 
Texas by3 
Houston by27 
Tennessee by12 
Notre Dame by30 

tA 
t 
Craig Chval Sports Writer 105-39..729 
Navy 
by12 
Alabama by4 
Pittsburgh by6 
Miami of Florida by9 
Texas by4 
Houston by22 
Tennessee by 11 
Notre Dame by33 


Brian Beglane Sports Writer 100-44' .695 
Navy 
by 15 

Alabama by7 
Penn State by 7 
Florida by3 
Texas by6 
Houston by10 
Tennessee by 5 
Notre Dame by 20 
~ 

Michael Ortman Sports Writer 99-45, .687 
Army by 2 
Alabama by 13 
Pittsburgh by6 
Florida by8 
texas 
by9 / 
Housfon by40 
Tennessee by 12 
Notre Dame by34 

Paul Stauder 
WSN DSports Director 102-42, .708 
Navy 
by 11 
Alabama by 7 
Pittsburgh by6 
Miami of Florida by3 
Texas by6 
Houston by 14 
Tennesst~e 
by 17 
Notre Dame by 22 







