
• • . Renovation in belfry -page 7 

Henri threatens 
Hurricane dances off the Mexican coast 

VERACRUZ Mexico (AP) -HurricaneHenri started an "erratic dance'' off the Mexican coast yesterday, making it hard to pinpoint where it might hit, but the storm appeared to be weakening and turning to the northwest, weather officials said. 
In m~d-afternoon, Henriwas drifting northwest at 10 mph with 
sustained winds of 75 mph and gusts of over 100 miles an hour. 
Gales extended 125 miles from the center, located about 150 miles 
northeast of Veracruz at 2 p.m., the National Hurrican Center in 
Miami reponed. It said satellite photographs indicated Henri, 
which earlier appeared to be headtng toward Mexico's southern 
coasts with winds of 107 mph, might be weakening. 
The center said if Henri's motions continued for 24 hours, 
hurricane conditions would spread across Mexico's eastern coast 
on Tuesday, but the storm did not pose a threat to the United 
States. 
In Veracruz, Cesar Luna Abauza, director of weather 
information, said "With the erratic dance this hurricane is 
stanin~, we have altered our initial projections and until we get 
better mformation we will not be able to pinpoint the coast areas 
most likely to be affected." 
'Earlier Monday, the storm aJ?peared heading toward Mexico's 
southern coast, pushing before 1t high tides that backed up rivers 
and flooded coastal lowlands. 
Itwas then pinpointed at 100 miles offshore, with winds of up to 
100 mph, and moving in a southwestward course. It had been 
expected to hit land near the 400-year-old fishing and pearl-diving 
port of Alvarado, 40 miles south of here and 500 miles south of ; 
the Texas border. 
Luan Abauza said rising winds in Veracruz were still 
"worrying" weather officials in Veracruz. "We also have 
information that Laguna Verde and Tampico are registering strong 
gusts." Both cities are north of Veracruz. 
Laguna Verde is the si~ht ofMexico's fttst nuclear power plant and Tampico is the princtpal_Port for oil exports from the state of Tamaulipas, the northern netghbor of the state of Veracruz. 
Veracruz port authorities said all navigation in the area was suspended. Marine officials reported that a British ship with 19 persons aboard, the Largo Isabel, was caught by the leading edge of the storm and had to battle high winds and 20-to-25-foot seas before making it safely to port at Coatzacoalcas, 120 miles southeast of Veracruz. 
Efforts to cap the runaway offshore oil well in Campeche Ba}' had to be suspended because of the storm. The well has spewed tens of millions of gallons of crude oil Into the Gulf of Mexico in 
TUJo tnore Bolshoi stars receive as_ylutn 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The terdar at Los Angeles Interna­
U.S. government yesterday tiona Airport for their return to granted political asylum to a Moscow. The troupe co.rnpleted husband and wife team from its U.S. tour here Sunday night. the Bolshoi Ballet, federal offi­The details of the actual cials said -the second defection defection were sketchr, but during the Soviet troupe's U.S. ] ervis said he believed the tour. Soviet couple first contacted 
Los Angeles police who calledSue Pittman, a spokeswoman INS officials. "We're talkingfor the State Department in with them out there (in LosWashington, said the couple Angeles)," he said.
asked for and was granted And a ] ustice Departmentasylum, adding they were spokesman in Washmgton;under the protection of U.S. 
] ohn Russell, said the coupleauthorities. . 
had been scheduled to leaveShe identified the dancers as with. the company on a jet.
Leonid Koslov and Valentina "They were not on it," he said. 
Koslova. Both are principal He said he had no informationdancers with the top-rated So­on how the couple left the ballet viet ballet company. 
company, but he said: "Norm­Earlier, Verne ] ervis of the ally if people do come to us, we
U.S. Immigration and Naturali­make an (to
do effort helpzation Service in Washington them.)"
said the couple was being In late August, Alexanderinterviewed in Los Angeles. 
Godunov defected from the 
The defection occurred be­Bolshoi during its stop in New fore other Bolshoi members York -the fttst defection by a boarded a charter airli_ner yes-Bolshoi ballet dancer. 

Former policeman David Toma addressed a» attentive audience at Saint Mary's CaTT0/1 Hal/last night. [photo by Tim McKeogh] 
history's worst oil SJ>ill. Henri, ftfth hurncane of the Atlantic season, was a tropical 
depression that developed into a tropical storm and then a hurricane ting teen-agers for dru£s. He 
late Sunday west of the Yucatan Channel between Cuba and 
Mexico. Weathermen said Henri had a diameter of roughly 100 .miles. 
The last hurricane to batter Mexico's Gulf Coast, Anita, which 
struck north of here in september 1971 with 120-mph winds, 
caused an estimated $5 million in damage and forced tens of 
thousands to evacuate their homes. Only two injuries were 
reponed, however. . 
Meanwhile yesterday, the immense clean-up contmued on the 
U.S. 
Gulf Coast in the wake of Hurricane Frederic,which roared through Wednesday. 

U.S. 
federal officials said it probably would be two mon!h.s before a :iollar estimate could be made for the damage. But ctvil defense officials in Mobile County, Ala., said Frederic probably caused $1.25 billion damage in their county alone. 


Food was running short for some victims of last week's storm, which devastated coastal areas from Florida's Panhandle to 
to Louisiana. 
Roemer not satis_fied with WSND action 
corrective action the radio man­
by Mary Fran Callahan 
agement will finally be willing to take," said Roemer. 
Dean of Students ] ames The conflict involving the 
Roemer released a state­
Administration and WSND sta­ment yesterday concerning the 
tion management was spurredlatest developments in the last week over the radio pro­
WSND radio controversy. "I gram "Sex at Notre Dame." 
am still in the midst of taking The phone-in talk show resulted corrective action on the matter. 
in a live uncensored broadcast I'm not at all satisfied with the of obscenities and abusive lan­corrective action prograil!_ pro­guage.posed in the Observer by the Roemer is meeting with sta­radio station. The University tion management this after­
furthermore must consider noon, and officials at WSND what disciplinary action should will meet tonight to discuss the be taken in addition to the course of action they will take. 
Toma talks' 
I


about love" 
-1 

and drugs 
by Kathy Cawley 

David Toma, writer and for mer policeman, spoke to ~ captive audience of 175 it 
l
Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's .. 1 Toma was a policeman ir Newark, New Jersey for twent), years before becoming a full time writer and lecturer. During his years on the force he: battled vice, gambling, narco­tics, the mafla, artd credit~ himself with never pulling his gun to shoot anyone, though he 1 has been stabbed and shot several times. 
Toma grew up in a poor· section of New York with immi­grant parents and twelve bro­thers and sisters. He said he knew poverty but remarked quite a few times during his talk that his family never lacked love. He saw five of his nephews become serious drug addicts and decided he wanted to help these people for the rest of his life. 
He said that although he met with much resistartce from the police department, he pushed to infiltrate the mob to stop the 
problems where they started. Toma was frustrated with acres­
wanted to stop those who were 
selling them to the kids, he 
said. 
Toma soon became a master 

of disguise. He bought himself 
wigs, beards, l0-30 different 
costumes artd learned to change 
his voice "very quickly." 
Toma's voice echoed in the 
auditorium "If I wanted to 
survive and help these kids I 
1. couldn't rely on my gun and my badge." . 
He proceeded to live in the depths of despair with drug adtcts aQd c!aims that this was his turning point in life. He said he came to the harsh realization that no one cared. Finally he got on television and 
spoke his beliefs. When he at last reached his goal of a television series, he was seri­ously disillusioned with Holly­wood. He claimed that money is allotted in the production of any show or fllm for drugs for the actors and staff. 
With constant perseverance he demanded that the show be done his way and he succeeded. 
Since the show was aired, the mail and telephone calls have never stopl.'ed. He said the people plead with him for help. 
"I reached out to help some­one and I won," he said. Since then he has lectured, written three books and has had two prime-time television shows based on his life, "Toma" and 
[continued on page 3] 


'r ' 
' 
' 
~ 
' 
r 
r 
, r ' , 
' 
' 
'~ 
' 
~ 





















News in brief 
Tuesday, September 18, 1979 -pa~e 2 
Companies say no freeze
Americans released; 
on heating oil prices 
State Dept. denies deal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two Both Gulf andSun Oil compan-The holdout Texaco wasWASHINGTON (AP) -Four Americans held in Cuban major U.S. oil companies told ies told the House Government immediately th;eatened ~ith aprisons since the mid-1960s were released yesterday and Congress yesterday they can't Operation.s Committee'~ energy subpoena. The subcommitteewere to be flown to Miami later in the day, the State endorse President Carter's re­subcommittee that whrle they scheduled a session today toDepartment said. In announcing the release of the four quest for a freeze on heating oil plan to hold prices as low as determine whether the firmAmericans, State Department officials denied that there was prices and a third refused to possible, they can't make any should be forced to appear.
a "package deal" involving the release last week of four testify entirely. promises, Texaco previously announced Puerto Rican terrorists fro,m U.S. prisons. The Americans The holdout, Texaco, was EnergY. Department officials, it intends to freeze heating oilwere identified as Larry Lunt, sentenced to 30 years in 1965 immediately threatened with a ~e.anwhrle, made public a. co~-pri~es this winter~ winning thefor espionage; Juan Tur, sentenced to 30 years for subpoena. The subcommittee dmonal pledge fro~ Mobrl Or! prarse of the :President, who"counter-revolutionary activities" in 1963; Everett ] ack­scheduled session today to det­Corp. to hold the hoe on home held Texaco up as a standardson, sentenced to 30 years for espionage in 1967; and Claudio ermine whether the firm should heating oil prices through the for the industry,Rodriguez Moralez, sentenced to 20 years in 1966 for be forced to appear. end of the year. But a congressional staffsmuggling people out of Cuba. 
"At this t.ime and barring official alleged Monday that 
unforseen circumstances, we Texaco actually may raise its 
~o not anticipate ~ny i!Jcrease price:s in ] anu~ry despite its
.Justice Dept. dismisses 
Former 10 borne heaung or! pnces for public line-holdmg assertions. the :rest of the year,'' Mobil And the oil firm refused to show officer said in a telegram it sent to up to defend itself against the President Carter last Friday. claim,

H-bomb publication suit 
dies At the same time, the Energy The subcommittee chairman, Department released a tele-Rep. Toby Moffitt, D-Comm., WASHINGTON (AP) -The government yesterday abandon­
gram from Standard Oil of said that, of the 11 major oil ed its efforts to stop publication of news articles describing 
William J. Broderick, who Indiana (Amoco) in which the companies he had asked to construction of the hydrogen bomb, although it had 
retired in 1977 after 45 years at company refused to rule out testify, Texaco was the only one contended such information could compromise n?.i:ional 
Notre Dame as investment offi-price increases in the coming that flatly refused to do so. security and lead to the spread of thermonuclear weapons. 
cer and, earlier, chief account-months. Heating oil prices have al­The Justice Department announced that it would seek 
ant, died Sunday, at St. Luke's "While we hope that prices ready risen more than 50 per­dismrssal of two suits it had filed in an effort to stop 
Presbyterian Hospital in Chica-will moderate, continued up-cent since last winter and the publication of H-bomb data. Those suits were filed against 
go. He was 75. ward pressure on foreign crude [contin d rl •(' Progressiv~ magazine of Madison, Wis., and against the 
Visitation at Hickey Funeral prices, as well as the need to ue on Page 9] Datly Caltfornilln, a student newspaper at the University of 
Home will be from 2 to 5 p.m. continue to augment supplies l thtur ma at .t:Serkeley. 
and 7 to 9 p.m. w:··h funeral in the high-priced spot market, 
services at 10 a.m. Sept. 19, at make future necessary price 
C' Ap

Notre Dame's Sacred Heart moves impossible to predict," L'l. 
Church. Burial will follow at the company said in a telegram
Pope 's Mass, pro _football 
Cedar Grove Cemetery on the to Energy Secretary Charles • • 
campus. Duncan. 
nomtnattOnS 
Broderick, a 1927 Notre Duncan has been meeting in
vie _for T. V. air time 
Dame graduate, who had ser-recent days with officials from ved under five University pres-oil companies, attempting to NEW YORK (AP) -Pro football games scheduled for 


due Monda_y
idents, coordinated University secure pledges that home heat­
activities with the Navy V-2 ing prices will remain stable in interruption, despite Pope John Pau II's celebration of Mass 
Sunday, Oct. 7, will be broadcast b[ CBS and NBC without 
programs when servicemen the coming months. He saw in Washington, D.C., that afternoon, officials of the two 
were educated on the campus ] erry McAfee, chairman of the Students in the Committee on networks said yesterday. ABC, with no conflicting sports 
during World War 11. He-board of Gulf, o~ Monda>:.. Academic Progress interested programs, will carry the Mass live at 3 p.m. EDT network 
instituted the first cost accoun-A Gulf offictal, tesufyr':lg in recommending any outstand­officials said. CBS will broadcast two pro football games thar 
ring applications, as well as the before .the H<?use ~ubcom~rt­Arts and Letters sophomores or afternoon, as it does most Sundays during the season, while 
first automated data .Processing tee, sard a mtld v.:mter mtg~t juniors are asked to stop in at NBC will carry one and perha~s a second. The first football 
methods. Before hrs appoint-actually mea~ a shght drop m the C.A.P. office at 346 0'­game starts at 1 p.m. EDT, wtth the second scheduled for 4 
ment as investment officer in consum~r pnces from the re-Shaugnessey for more informa~ p.m. The Mass would cut into the end of the first game and 
1948, he served three years as cord hrgh current levels of tion. the start of the doubleheader contest. 
University comptroller. around 80 t? 83 cents a gallon. Nominations must be in the Since 1944 he had been But. he ca~:~uoned congr~s~m~n C.A.P. office by 5 p.m. on involved in the activities of the agamst bemg overly opumrsuc. Monday, Sept. 24. 
Notre Dame Board of Lay Trustees, and was secretary Mostly sunny and mild today, with highs in the mid and 


Weather 

and coordinator of the invest­upper 70s. Fair and chilly tonight. Lows in the low and mid 
ment committee of the Board of 40s. Partly sunny and cool tomorrow with a high in the upper 
Trustees since its inception in 60s. 
1967. He served as secretary of 
For "Give a Boy a Flower Day" ­
the finance committee of the 

board, the predecessor of the 
investment committee, from 

1945 to 1967. 

Until 9/21 single stems just $.50 

The Observer 
Requ~ BO~tnq hou~s 01at 284-4841 
Night Editor: Rod Beard 

4: 15 pm SEMINAR ''effects of catecholamines on ganglionic Asst. Night Editor: Basement o Lemans transmission," by dr. daryl dean christ, u of ark., spon. by 
Ver Berkmoes 

bio. dept., GALVIN AUD. 
Copy Editor: Tom Jackman 
Layout Staff: Bill Keenan,

4:30pm MEETING marshall, rhodes scholarship meeting, 
Cindy Kliros, Dan McGrath 
RM. 118 O'SHAG. 
News Editor: Mike Shields 


Hunting for a Career?
Editorial Layout: Colleen 

6:30 pm MEETING, alpha phi omega-service fraternity, 
Sloan 

ZAHM HALL BASEMENT. all are welcome Sports Layout: Beth Huff­
man 

6:45 {>ffi MASS, nd-smc right to life, general meeting 
Find a Oue at
Typist: Amy Peczkowski 

followrng at 7:30. B-P CHAPEL. all are welcome. 
Night Controller: Tem' Blazi Proofreader: Mark Rust 6,8:30, 11 pm FILM "blue collar, social concerns film 
NO Day Editor: Claude Rains series, ENG. AUD. 
SMC Day Editor: Peggy 
Schneenman 



SMC College 
6, 8:30, 11 pm FILM "the battle of algiers," social concerns 
Ad Design: Flo O'Connell 

film, W ASH.HALL. 
Photographer: Tim 
McKeogh 

7 pm MEETING manda,tory meeting for women's cross 
to 

country, FARLEY LOUNGE. 
The Observer (USPS • 12111 Ia published Mondly through Frtdly ••­
cept durlngeum and viCitlln plrilda. The Observer Is publlallld br till 

7:30 pm WORKSHOP eucharistic ministers workshop, for 

Career Days 
those who plan to be hall eucharistic ministers, spon. by 
students of Notn Dlflll .-Saint 

campus ministry, SACRED HEART. 
Mary's Cllllgl. Sulllcrtpllla lillY Ill purdlaaed llr 1211 pit' ,.r 1111 per 

8 pm SOCCER nd vs st. joseph's, CARTIER FIELD. 
lllllllttrl from The Observer, P.0. 1111 0. Nltrl ba1111.1111111111 alii. s-41 

Sept. 23-27 
-
clau ':'I. paid, lllttrl 011111, la­

8 pm LECTURE "tht: wordswonhian poet: pigmy,.frophet 
dialll . and seer blest," dr. gene hernstcm. nd, spon. by phr . dept., 
The Observer Ia a llllllllllr II till Aulclatld Praa. 

All ••iiCIIdlln
GALVIN AUD. 
rights afl flllmCI. 

The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1979-page 3 


New president in Afghanistan says he eliminated radical "oppressors" 
NEW DELHI India (AP) -one -former security chief 
New President Hafizullah Amin Major Syed Daoud Tarun, who of Afghanistan confrrmed in a often served as Taralci's person­broadcast speech last night that al bodyguard. He was given a persons he called oppressors state funeral, it said. were "eliminated" in his light­"Those people who saw their 
ning seizure of power. greatness in the oppression of · the people hav~ been eliminat­
In a state radio broadcast monitored here, the 50-year-old ed,"said Amin. The same 
word, "eliminated," was usedAmin, who rose from prime to report the violent death ofminister to president and chief Taraki's predecessor, President of the ruling parry Sunday, said Mohammed Daoud, in the coup nothing about the whereabouts of April 27, 1978.
of his predecessor and former mentor, Nur Mohammed Tar­Amin promised an end to 
personality cults, an obviousami. Amin retained the frime reference to the enormous ef­minstry and control o the fort made to project Taralci'sregime's defense system. 
image as the classless liberator lt was not clear whether the of Afghanistan.
sudden takeover was approved "The 16th of Septemberby the Soviet Union, which ushered in the beginning of aprops up the Marxist govern­better socialist order,'' thement with money and with arms American-educated leader said. 
to fight right-wing rebels trying ''Those people who did notto overthrow what they call the appreciate the toiling masses"godless" regime. 
have been eliminated."
In Moscow, the Soviet news Amin did not mention T aralci agency Tass reported President by name nor did he explain his Leonid I. Brezhnev and Premier sudden removal.
Alexei N. Kosygin had sent a The state radio reported Sun­telegram to Amin congratula­day that the 62 year-old poet­ting him on his "election." It journalist had ''resigned'' fromquoted the message as saying the presidency and leadershipin part, "We express 'confi­of the ruling Khalq Party,dence that fraternal relations because ofa nervous condition. 
between the Soviet Union and T aralci appeared fit during aRevolutionary Afghanistan will recent stopover in Moscowbe further developed." 
following the Havana non­
Diplomatic sources in Kabul aligned summit. 
had said before the upheaval Amin said he had the supportthere were indications the of the ''brave army ofMghanis­Kremlin leadership was not tan'' and pledged to maintain satisfied with Amtn and had good relations with all nations,considered seeking ways to "especially the Soviet Union,"
replace him. 
ease strained ties with Iran and 
The state-controlled radio re­Pakistan, and respect Moslem ported four persons were shot institutions. dead Friday but identified only Referring to the regime's 
• • • Toma 
[continued from page 1) 
"Baretta." He is now inthe process of filming a show in which he will star, and a movie about his life and work. 
Now he visits two or three schools a day around the world. Seventy percent of all grade school, high school and college students seriously misuse alco­hol and drugs, Toma stated, he rattled the crowd as he told of an eight-year-old girl who came to him after one of his talks at her school. As she sobbed, she told him that she shot Morphine everyday. While the audience gasped he shouted that he hears these stories every day without exception. Angel dust, heroin, cocaine and pills prevail in every aspect of our society he shouted, "We are in a helluva mess.'' 
He knocked schools as-places where children get book educa­cation, but no teaching on common sense. ''These kids have no idea about the dangers of drugs," he said. 
Once more, he demanded the crowd's attention as he yelled "Listen to me, you are all involved." He stated some very startling facts about a drug in common use -marijuana. He said that marijuana is the most unpredictable drug on the mar­ket. One-hundred chemicals make-up this, "seemingly harmless" drug. How it is ~rown, where it is ~ro:wn, and m what temperature tt ts grown all effect its potency, he claim­ed. The only chemical in marijuana that makes the smo­ker "high" is THC and the degree to which it t:ffects one is varied every time ·one smokes, he said. 
Toma said he had govern­ment proof that in all 50 states pot is now being cut with parsley, rat poisoning, and other chemicals. "Sure your joint could be clean but how can you risk your mind and health on an assumption." 
Then he cited· specific exam­ples of doctors, lawyers, politi­cians, college professors and everyday people who use over­whelming amounts of drugs each day. He told ofmore cases where people have come to him in ruins. "They told me that they smoked for years and one day they smoked and now have no feeling in their arms or legs." 
Toma appealed to each young man and woman to be an individual. "Don't use drugs to be 'in' or 'cool.' You don't realize what you are doing to yourselves." Many listeners were in tears as he told of what pot smoking can do to a mother's unborn baby. "These babies can be born without arms and legs," he claimed. He appealed especially to girls, stating that it takes between one to three months for THC to leave a smoker's body. ·It settles in a woman's mind and 
reproductive organs, possibly causing permanent damage, he said. He also emphasized the early age at which drug users begin. The audience was shocked and amazed through the entire speech. 
human rights record, Amin 
promised: ''All atrocities by 
members of the government 
will no longer be tolerated. '' 
All political prisoners "un­
necessarily'!. arrested will be 
released, he added. 
The regime under Taraki 
admitted it held about 1 , 100 
political prisoners, although re-
Frick appoints 
Regan 
director 
Brian C. Regan has been appointed a regtonal director of development at Notre Dame by Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and development. 
A 1961 Notre Dame alumnus, Regan returns to the Univer­sity's public relations and de­velopment operation where he served eight years before join­ing the staff of Saint Mary's College as assistant to the president for college relations and, later,· director of develop­ment. He will direct Notre Dame's fund-raising activities in an 11-state area in the south and southeastern United States. 
Regan received the "Man of the Year" award in 1978 from the St. ] oseph County Notre Dame Club for contributions to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, the church and the community. He served from 1962-65 in the Marines and is a lieutenant colonel in the Marine Corps Reserves. 
liable Afghan sources said the 
number was in the tens of thousands. Pul-1-Charkhi Prison on the outskirts of Kabul, reportedly the scene of torture and summary execu­tions was holding about 23,800 persons, many of them political prisoners, the sources said. 
;{2J!1CJ)Qanfu an 
wa CJ&w~ 
; foR €V€rzy occas1on Unteasonable Ptlce-s )Ust 01al 284-4841 
€GUlaR BORinG hOURS 
&sanmt o~ l£mans 
l'f)lJr fe~tl!~?r~§ II===== ~lJ§(CI£1!1? ==== 
-

gatntQ4 ffiailt g~Qittq Centelt 





Social Concerns Filin Series 
Sponsored b_y Student Government & the Center _for Experlential Learnin~ in collaboration with GILA & the World I-iun~er Coalition 
Tues. Sept; 18:  The Rattle ..1f Algiers, 6:00,8:30,1 J:OOpm Wash. Hall. Blue ·collar ~ 6:00,8:30,1 i :OOpm E1 tg. Aud.  
Wed. Sept. 19:  The Battle of Algiers, 6:00,8:30,11:00pm Wash. Hall Blue Collar-6:00,8:30,11:OOpm Eng. Aud.  
Thurs. Sept. 20:  A Hero AiP't Nothin' but a Sand"Tich ­6:00, 8~~·) 11 :OOpm Eng. Aud., Given Word -3:30,6:00pm Library Aud.  
Fri. Sept. 21 :  A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich 6:00,8:30,11:()()pm. Eng. Aud.  

Given Word~ 3:30,6:00,8:30 Llbrary Aud. 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 1 
' 
1 1 
, ~ 
1 1 
1 
l 
,1 
1
, 
I 
The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1979 -page 4 



Nigeria considers oil price 
•


tncrease 
NEW YORK '(AP) -Niseria has told oil companies tt is considering raising the price of some of its crude oil above the $23.50-a-barrel OPEC ceiling, industry sources said yesterday -a move experts said could tri~ge_r another round of oil pnce mcreases. 
Nigeria is the second-largest 
'foreign supplier of crude oil to the United States, after Saudi Arabia, accounting for about 15 percent of the oil used by U.S. refiners . 
Because Nigerian oil is among the best in the world, it is particularly valuable in mak­ing gasoline. But it is currently 
uncle~ w~at effect the /ropo­sed pnce mcrease woul have on prices at the gas pump in the Uruted States. 
Sources at oil companies that do business with Ntgeria said the Nigerian government has proposed an increase of$3 to $5 m the price of a barrel of Nigerian oil, which is currently pegged at the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ceiling price of $23.50. 
"They told us they are con­templatmg a $3 to $5 premium on the oil they sell to us," said one such buyer ofcrude oil from 

Oil no problem here 
Universit..y prepares _for UJinter 
by Brendan Brawn 
Despite the beautiful weather condiuons the South Bend area has been experiencing in the past few weeks, University officials are already making preparations for the coming winter months. 
Usually, Notre Dame re­(.eives about sixty-eight inches of snow each year, however the past couple ·of winters have been especially severe. Last year 101 inches fell while the year before, the University found itself buried under 172 inches of snow. 
• Under such conditions, pro­per heating in dormitories and classrooms is essential. All seventeen dormitories are heat­ed by a central heating plant located near the Grace and Flanner towers. The chances of the University being without heating fuel are very slim since the plant can burn oil, coal, and natural gas. What is used depends on the price and 
ARmANpo'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 
1437 N. Ironwood Dr South Bend 277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim Amiando--stylist mon-w•d-frl 8-5:30 
tu•a-thull 8-8 pm sat 8-2 by appt. only aat-no appt. n••d•d 
availability of the fuel. Coal is the most popular. 
For the second year students will be able to adjust their own room temperatures according to their needs. With the installa­tion of thermostats in each room, the University hopes to save 20 to 30 percent of the fuel it consumes. Fr. James Riehle, director of the Energy Conser­vation Departmont, said that 

least until the cartel meets accepted.instruction sheets on the use vacations. 



Tuition-free teacher trainingprogram 
by Theresa Rebeck 
The'Notre Dame Department of Mathematics will offer a tuition-free teacher training program this year for secondary school (grades 7-12) mathe­matics teachers from the · ern Indiana area. 
Organizational meetings for this year's program will begin this week. 
This program, funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation, will ope1ate Resource Centers in Fort 

Fiber art exhibition 'at Moreau 
An exhibition of the fiber art works of Mahboob Shahzaman is currently being shown in the Moreau Gallery of Saint Mary's now through October 12. The public is cordially invited to attend. 

~'EUCHARISTIC miNISTERS ~IJ..an •v•nlng of ceflection required CC!I1)PUS of all those who wish to be 
m•mStrv 

commissioned or re-commissioned fn .thfs ministry for llturqies In the halls or in Sacred Heart Church ••• Dgte: Tuesday, September 18 7:30pm )Ieee: Sacred Heart Church 
and proper treatment of the thermostats will be distributed soon. 
In the spirit of ''Carter­hood,'' the department will also issue pamphlets encouraging students to save energy by turni~g off lights, radi?s, and televtstons when not m use, closin~ windows and drapes, and disconnectin~ refrigerators and other apphances during the African nation. "It's still at the negotiation state." 

The. buyer -who asked not to be identified • said the chances of the Nigerian propo­sal taking effect were "50·50," but added: "The market is tight, and they probably have more buyers hoed up there to buy than there's oil to sell, and they think they can make it stick." 
The proposed increase, which would be effective Oct. 1, would cover only what is known as "buyback" oil -oil produced by oil companies in Ntgeria for the government there, and then sold back to the companies. Com{>anies also produce "equtty" oil in Nigeria, which is theirs to use as they wish. 
Sources estimated 600,000 barrels of the 2.2 million barrels of oil produced daily in Nigeria is buyback oil, and would be affected by the proposed price hike. But one industry source hinted that if the price went up on part of the Nigerian produc­tion, the price of the rest would soon follow. 
Experts agreed the key issue in the· proposed price increase was its seeming violation of the OPEC agreement not the raise prices above $23.50 a barrel at again in December. 
That ceiling, set last June, consists of an $18-a-barref base price, a maximum of $2 in premiums, or surcharges, and as much as $3.50 in differential to take into account varying quality of oil. OPEC nations that produce lower-quality oil are charging prices below the ceiling, and Saudi Arabia, OPEC's largest and most mod­erate member, sells most of its oil at $18-a-barrel. 

Placement Bureau open house 

The Placement Bureau will hold an open house today through Friday in the Place­ment Bureau offices, rooms 213 and 222 of the Administration Building. All interested stu­dents are invited. ' 
Placement Bureau person~el will provide literature a:nd in­formation on the sign-uf proce­dure. Registrations wil also be 
Wayne, Gary, and South Bend. The mathematics teachers who participate are required to develop individual projects which refresh or update their knowledge of mathematics and apply directly to their work in the classroom. 
They will meet weekly with their instructor and other par­ticipants from their area to discuss and present their pro­jects. 

Mario Borelli, director of the program, explains that each participant earns three credits each semester, up to a total of six credits. The mathematics teachers may also earn up to six credits by participating in the second phase of the program taken during the summer months. This program consists of inten­sive course work as defined by 
Borelli. 
Although Notre Dame does not offer a Master's Degree in Education, these credits are p~iallr _.:ransfer~ble to other uruverstnes. 
Notre Dame's program ts 


Seldom seen but often heard, these ancient controls determine the melodies played by the bells in Sacred Heart Church. See related story, p. 7. [photo by Tim McKeoghJ 
only one of approximately 150 such programs funded by the National Science Foundation. According to Borelli, however, Notre Dame's academic year program is unique because it forces its participants to define their own projects by changing the content of the program from city to city. 
Projects have ranged from developing a set of special lectures for use in the class­room to compiling comprehen­sive mathematics exams for graduating high school seniors. 


Duggan meets with HEW secretary 
by Ellen Buddy Saint Mary 's Editor 

John M. Duggan, president of Saint Mary's, will be one of 50 women's college presidents meeting with Patricia Harris, Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, today in Washing­ton. 
Saint Mary's is a member of the Women's College Coalition, a Washington-based organiza­tion which represents 67 wo­men's colleges across the na­tion. Today's meeting is the result of the Coalition's earlier attempts to seek closer contact with HEW officials. 
The purpose of the meeting is to explore the country's current . role 10 meeting national goals for equality in education for women. The sessions will touch 
. on policy and program issues that concern the presidents as executives of institutions in higher education for women. 
Secretary Harris will speak at the opening session. Other HEW officials will chair discus­sion sessions throughout the day. 
Accompanying Duggan is Joan Holland, assistant to the president. 

--------------~-­
The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1979 -pa~e 5 
.., 
Hill, Knowlton seminar ~ 
~ ,


Am Stud chooses seminar attendees, Scholars , 
, ~ 
ing'' to the students, many of nation and allows for practical guage is not a criterion for ' 
by jim Soisson inthe country," according to 
whom anticipate pursuing ca­experience in various fields. selection, but all scholars
Elizabeth Christman, an asso­
reers in J>Ublic relations or The field placement arranged should be willing to take a ' ' 
The American Studies De-ciate professor and former edi­
is based on individual career lan~uage course both prior to
related fields. 
partment and its Chairman tor from New York will 1
The Luce Scholars Program,' interests, experience, training thetr departure for Asia and in ' 
Donald P. Costello have two be sending some of their "best 
the country. 
started by the Henry Luce and general background. Prior 1 
reasons for being choosy these people" to ~ive six different 1
Foundation in 1973, sends 15 scholars have been attached to Ap_plicants are required to
days. seminar sessiOns. The sessions 1
submtt certain documents as
students from 60 universities to such varied apprenticeships as
The department selected 29 begin today and continue every 1
the Far East for professional an architectural ftrm in Tokyo well as . ·transcripts, photo­
American Studies majors Fri-first and third Tuesdays of each 
graphs and letters of recom­
apprenticeships under the gui­and a newspaper in Hong
day to attend a ''Career Semi-month until December 4th. 
me.ndation. All completed rna­
dance of leadin~ Asians. Kong.
nar on Public Relations, Public The seminar was initiated by 
renal must be received by
Gene~ally speaktng, partici­According to Costello, "the
Affairs, and the Arts and Costello, who is hopeful that 
Costello no later than Monday
pants m the program are recent nominating schools ar"e selected
Letters Student." • the "pilot program" will be a 
November 26. ' 
college graduates, however from a rotating list of some of
Professor Costello, also success, but will only be able to 
undergraduates as well as the more distinguished institu­After selection by Notre
chairman of Notre Dame's determine the value of it after a 
Dame's Luce Committee all
faculty are encouraged to ap­tions in the country." Harvard,
Luce Selection Committee, will few sessions have been conduc­
documents for the three Notre
ply. Princeton, Stanford, '{ale,
likewise help nominate three ted. 
Dame nominees will be sent
The program is ex.Periential UCLA, Michigan and USC are a
members for the Luce Scholars The Public Relations/Public 
to the Henry Luce Foundation
rather than academic m nature, sample of those schools partici­
Program. This program, unlike Affairs Counsel from Chicago is 
for final selection. All Notre
with no academic credit invol­pating.
the former, is for all majors and conducting the seminar at no 
ved. It encourag~s the person "If those schools don't have a Dame-candidates will be noti­
is still open to applicants. cost.to the University. Christ­
fied of the nomination decisions 
to explore the different cultural winner in 3 years, then they
Hill and Knowlton Inc., "the man anticipates that the pro­
in ear: " v._.__ unber.
· experiences in their assigned rotate off the list,'' Costello
biggest public relations firm gram will be ''very enlighten-
added. · Notre Dame's last winner, William Wilka, was selected in 
Christ ,
,
19..,'5 and went to study law 
,
"informally" in Singapore in
Air Canada.iet limpsinto Logan talks , ,
1977. He studied law at 
Georgetown University. 1 
Atlantic 11 minutes into a tip of the plane. Pisni, in New The program runs 11 months 1
BOSTON (AP) -An Air totJa.y
Canada jet flying at 25,000 feet mid-day flight from Boston to York, said he did not know overall with an orientation week 1 
with 42 persons aboard lost its Yarmouth and Halifax, Nova specifics of the problem. in late August at Princeton 1 
tail cone yesterday and experi­Scotia, when the pilot noticed He said the craft was about University, a series of seminars Dr. Daryl Dean Christ, asso­
the plane was depressurizing, 60 miles east of Logan when the in Hong Kong, and the program ciate professor of pharmacology 
enced a rapid drop in cabin 
the airline said. trouble developed. itself runs from mid-September at the University of Arkansas
pressure, authorities said. The 
Flight 680, landed safely just Neither the airline nor staff at until ] une. A final evaluation College of Medtcine will con-·
Jet made a safe return landing 
Logan was able to identify the 
session at a site elsewhere in duct a seminar on the ''Effect of 
at Logan Airport but a stewar­before 1 p.m. 
injured stewardess or describe Asia follows the program. Catecholamines on Ganglionic
dess was slightly injured. ''The cabin became depres­
her condition. The Luce Scholars receive a Transmission," today at 4:30 in 
"The pilot noticed that the surized, so the captain decided 
"They underwent an explo­significant basic stipend, econ­the Galvin Life Sciences audi­
tail cone was missing after they to return to Logan," said Air 
sive decompression in the fuse­omy class air transportation for torium.
landed,'' said Jack Campbell, Canada spokesman Steve Pisni. 
lage," Campbel said. all travel required by the pro­Refreshments will be availa­
programs officer in the control He attributed the emergency 
Thirty-eight passengers and gram and an allowance for the ble before the seminar, and all 
tower at Logan. to "trouble with the tail cone," four crew members were on the 
shipment of personal effects. students are cordially invited to 
The DC-9 was over the North which is the section at the rear 
plane. Knowledge of an Asian Ian-attend. 






DARK OFIT! 

It's Pabst Night at Goose's Tuesday -9/18/79 9 to 12 
Pabst Special Dark on tap  $1.75 per pitcher  
Pabst Extra Light  
Pabst Blue Ribbon  2 bottles for $1.00  

Free hot dogs and prizes for those with the '~Blue's''------­
1 
, 1 
1 1 
, 1
, 
1 


Editorial Board 
,~ , r ~ , 
r 
r 
r 
' 
r 
,r ' 
r 
r 
r 
Notre Dame spirit 
has beCome offensive 
Dear Editor: 1 

As a 1977 graduate and third-year law student, I am starting my seventh year at Notre Dame. I am also besinn­ing my third year as a dining hall checker and wish to note the events following the ND­Mich.igan game last Saturday 
ev~~mg. 

Most frightening was the fact that a student worker was assaulted and injured by anoth­
----~----------­
.....·torials 
Tuesday, September 18, 1979 -page 6 
P. 0. Box Q 
The gilded dome sitting on its extended drum as it does, strikes me as a phallic symbol. In a profound irony this phallic symbol is crowned with rhe Virgin Mary. 
The Virgin Mary is of course an archetype of Chrisuan purity; not only for women but also at times for rnen. (Do you remember that the Sir Gawain of the Anhurian romance had "on the inner part :>f his shield her image portrayed"?) 
The building as phallic symbol has as its archetype the Tower of Babel: as it stands in its unabashed solitude, it is a paradigm of hubris ­that overweenins pride that sets man against the gods, resulting to tradedy. 
The irony is complete when we ·see that the phallus is firmly rooted in the Administration Building. Thi!><:onjuncrion of Christian ideal and a bold phallic assertion of masculine power seems to me at times quite appropriate as a symbol of the administration policy of Notre Dame. 
If l need to be ~ven more clear, I mean that while the Virgin Mary in all her very real splendor is made prominent, underneath, indeed displaying her, is something very, very different. To be colloquial; the gilt statue is the symbol, the awkward mass of yellow brick, the realiry. 
The phallus and the Virgin are in contraction and so is the University, especially, but not only the administration. (Students have their own peculiar and destructive set of contradictions, but that is outside this essay: to the extent that we are passive, we assert in that very proportion to admmistration policres. 
There are, it seems, rw6 classic types of contradiction that the administration has en­gaged in. The farst is its often liberal policies. The~iberal contradiction is a result of an often ~enuine concern, for example to bring about JUStic~·· coming into conflict with an inability to make the structural changes that would realize that concern. Liberal policy can be seen as a salve, concerning itself with the symptoms of the disease while at the. very same ume refusing to diagnose, much less treat, the cause of the disease. 
Notre Dame's continued investment in South Africa is a perfect example. To withdraw these investments in an effort to bring about the fall of the apartheid regime is seen as too radical. (In an effort, probably fruitless, to dispel some of the fears and misunderstandings that have grown 
admimstration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials

_The Observer_ 
Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills represem the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... M. Onufr~ The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ....Mike Lewis newspaper published by students of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor ............ .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Eduor . • . . . . . . . . . Mark Perry 
er student. Unfortunately, this kind of behavior is not an isolated incident, either . last Saturday or in years past. In the South Dining Hall that same meal, one student was arrested by ND Security and an entire s1de was closed down rwenty minutes after opening for fear of creating a more riotous atmosphere than already exist­ed. 
last year, 27 ID' s were taken after the Purdue game, repre­senting only a small number of those actively taking pan in a massive food fight. After all the talk in this community of our special Notre Dame ''spi­rit," I think it appropriate to point our that all too freq,uently this "spirit" is beginmng to 
up around the work "radical," thus making · conversation difficult, let me quote the Oxford dictionary: l.a. of the root[s], 4. Affecting the foundation, going to the root, etc.). Notre Dame would prefer to work ''within the system,'' thus supporting it, insp_it.e of contin~ed _appeals by Afncans to end poliucal, economic, mihtary and 
even nuclear ties with South Africa. 
There is a second type of contradiction, far more serious as it is not merely the result of a naive political ideology (of course, I do not intend to downplay the very serious consequenc­es of this self-deception) because it centers around t!:te question ofhonesty. The University's recent action in deciding the tenure appoint­ments smacks absolutely of duplicity. There is a direct contradiction berween the h1ghly touted and self-styled image as a Christian university and its refusal last May to tenure certain professors who during their years here have been so important in creating that very Christian atmosphere. And obversely; do the professors that they have retained evince thoo;;e qualities that we ought to look for in a Notre Dame professor? If you do not know of whom I am speaking, I ask you to look about yourself at the professors youcare most for and to find out if they are tenured or were given tenure last spring;. Due to a cruel kindness within the system, most of those dismissed will be with us another year -reminding us how very much we need them. 
Let me pose this question: Is the University here in order to educate students, or are we here in order that academics may earn a living? If it is the former, then I sug&est that we have certain rights -one of them IS a right to have a voice that will be heard, that will be carefully .considered when our professors are being tenured. It is not only a right, but a duty that we speak up in protest at the dismissal of some of our best professors. Who else will speak for them? Shall they leave in silence? 
If we look closely then at administration policies Vo(e will see, I think, a patt.ern; that there will consistently be alapse, a fallm~ awal from what Notre Dame stands for. In hght o this I suggest that we reinterpret our symbol; after all, the phallus and the Virgin explain more than the Virgin ever did alone. 
Let me close this essay with a call for a beginning; a beginning of perception, thought, discussion and activism. And activism. 
mean drunken and adolescent behavior. 
When students get drunk, throw food, assault other stu­dents, or attempt to create violent or uncontrollable situ­ations, they are de~rading themselves, violating nghts or others, and most sadly, being inconsiderate to the other stud­ent workers who must respong to the selfish actions of their peers. And that reality is not changed just because they hap­pen to be shoutin~ the Fight Song or chanting 'We're No. 1'' or because John Belushi did it in "Animal House. " 
When I was an undergrad­uate, I believed in Notre Dame as value-oriented education and sometimes felt that we should demand to be treated more like adults. Unfortunately, after working three years in the dining hall, I believe ND stu­dents would _be hard pressed to demonstrate an adult capability to form or live values. In this li~ht, to demand that the Ad­mmistration treat them like adults is nothing less than laughable. 
What I really resent, how­ever, is that the spirit of Notre dame, taken for what it has obviously become, is offensive to me. I don't want it tQ be, but I can't ignore obvious facts. I hope the students don't ignore them either, as they reflect on these incidents and their lives at Notre Dame and beyond. 
Davzd]. Dreyer 


Devine thanks 
student body 
To: The Notre Dame Student Body 
The team and coaching staff want to thank you for the great pep rally Thursday night and the tremendous reception when we returned home. We knew you were with us in spirit but it was even more thrilling to see you in person.
My personal wish for each of you IS that you will have peace and happiness in your life and that Our Lady will continue to watch over you. 
Devotedly yours to Notre Dame, 
Dan Devine 
Head Football Coach 


Gas line thoughts 
Dear Editor: 

This past summer I had r.lenty oftime to think about the 
'energy crisis" as I waited in line for gas or as I waited for my speeding ticket. The following is a list of my more important thoughts. 
1. 
If government allocation systems are so good, why did New Yorkers wait hours for gasoline while nobody waited in rural Illinois? 

2. 
How do laws like the 55 mph speed limit get passed if no one supports them? 

3. 
Isn't a monopoly when a large portion of _Fortune 500's top ten corporations are auto­motive-petroleum businesses? 

4. 
Has anyone thought of ~oline as an investment? (Ibe yield is now 30% per annum.) 

5. 
Does any one single person know all the government oil regulations? 

6. 
Why didn't Canada have a gasoline problem? 

7. 
How long do I have to drive before I've burned be­rween $5.00 and $10.00 worth of gas? 

8. 
Whatever happened to the basic supply and demand sit­uation I learned about in &on­omic Problems? 

9. 
How much to policemen make anyway? 

10. 
Will I have to go through these gas lines again next year when the precious stuff sells for $1. 50 per gallon? 


BryanS. 0 'Neill 

Features Editor ..........K. Connelly Photo Editor ........ Dou2 Christian SMC News Editor......... M. Brassil 
Business Manager .....Steve Odland Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan 
Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy Controller ..........K~vin Mani9n 


Call for a beginning~of perception, thought and activism Paul Lauer 
Tuesday, September 18, 1979 ·· page 7
The Observer 
by Kevin O'Brien 

Adjustments made for sporadic 

N.Y. Times 
by Kit Bernardi 

This year Saint Mary's Health Service has extended its service by adding General Prac­titioner Dr. Kristine Stoll to its staff. •Gynecologist Sam Bech­told will also be available now to Saint Mary's students on a regular basis. 
The reason for hiring Stoll 
was that Saint Mary's students 
expressed a desire to have a 
female doctor,'' explained 
Kathleen Rice, Dean of Student 
Affairs. Rice explained that 
Stoll was hired becuase of her 
extensive training in the fields 
of gynecology and mental 
health. 
This is Stoll's first semester 
with the health service. She 
also is a physician at the South 
Bend Clinic. 
Saint Mary's also now em­
ploys the service of gynecolo­
gist Dr. Sam Bechtold. Bech-

Bells 
undergo 
•


renovatton 
by Ryan Gorey 

The 25 bells of Sacred Heart ~burch .are undergoing renova­non thts week to repair the effects of aging. The overhaul process began today and should be completed by the end of the week. 
The bells are North Ameri­ca's oldest carillon. They were cast by Bolle and Fils in LeMans, France, home of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. , I;ather Edward Sorin, the Untversity's founder, had the bells sent here, and in 1856 they were installed in a wooden tower which stood in front of the "old church." 
Each of the bells have their own personality. They have all been named, baptized, confirm­ed and annointed with chrism. They also vary in size, the largest of which, Saint Anthony of Padua, weighs seven tons. Now only rung with a hammer, it is said to have been heard in Elkhart in the days that it was swung. 
The bells may be played in two ways: automatically, with a player piano type console; or manually, which requires a partial climb up the 218' foot tower. 
s 'I.• 
~3 f 
CD-. . 
~ ~·-~ 
~~. 
-% " 
~! .. 
-n =
)lo%
z-.. 


,.. ~ ­
• z .,..
5 • 
-" 
• 
told is also employed by the Notre Dame Health Services. He will offer workshops on dimensions of health care to women students on both cam­puses. 
He will have office hours every Thursday by appointment from 10 a.m. to noon. 
Saint Mary's hopes to offer a gynecological clinic to women students in the near future. 


Dr. Harvey Brectle, a family practitioner, and Verna Woods a registered nurse, also serv~ 
on  the  health  service  staff.  
Brectle  has  been  with  the  
service  for  12  Jears,  while  

Woods has serve on the staff for ten years. 


Run unopposed 

All St. Mar_.y's candidates win 
by Mary]o Russo Off-Campus. Suzanne Ells­votes in order to be elected to 
worth was elected last spring to the Assembly. However, since 
Student Assembly elections represent LeMans Hall for the the number of candidates vying were held yesterday at Saint upcoming year, and Janet Mil­for office did not exceed the Mary's, with all candidates ler was elected from Off-Cam­available positions, everyone running unopposed. pus. that ran was elected. The 
student body had the choice ofStudent Assembly positions According to Election Comm-, abstinence, thus it was notfor LeMans Hall went to Cecilia issioner Mary Mullaney, there mandatory to vote for the given Boyle, Louise Enyedy, Colleen was a good turnout for the number of candidates. Accord­Farrell, and Maria Frigyesi, election, although percentages ing to Mullaney, all won by anwhile Ann McCarthy, Mary were not available. 
overwhelmingnumber of votes.
Anne Moore, Sue Murdock and Candidates are elected by The Student Assembly is theDonna Trauscht represent Holy their respective residence halls. 
law-making body of the SaintCross Hall. Elected from Mc­
One representative per every 
Mary's student government.
Candless Hall were Kathy Mc­hundred students holds a posi­Other duties include allottingGrath, Jean Ramker and Jill tion in the Student Assembly. 
money to clubs and organiza­Shomsky. Jody Bertino, Pam Due to the lack of time and ' tions and voting on the schoolKelly, Carol Knych, and Meg ~a~didates last sprin~, the ma­charity. Mullaney stated, "OneScanlon gained positions from JOtlty of representatives were of thP rn~iin vnals of theRegina Hall. From Augusta elected yesterday. assembly this year lies inHall Julie Marous was elected The candidates needed at making itself better known toand Julie James will represent least fifty-one percent of the _the stUldent body." 
••()pen lfouse•• 
Wednesday , Sept. 19th 3:00pm 'till 5:00pm 
Free Hair Consultation by· .Award-Winning Gordon Nelson 


Regis Hairsty.Jists University Park Mall Phone 272-1168 
• 
Jl 
• 


~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~---·-------------­
r 
Tuesday, September -18, 1979 -pa,ge 8
The Observer 
Wednesday

Corby's Sept. 19, 1979 
7pm-3am 





Play the Ponies 
Wednesday nite at Corby's 


3 Miller lite Ponies (Boz. bottles) for $1.00 
Sandoval evaJuates Fello-wships 
by Donna Marie Pawlikowski 

White House Fellowships, in­iated by President ] ohnson in 1964, offer a valuable o,Pponun­ity for young Amencans to become involved . in national government. Each year, 14 to ~0 persons are selected from approximately 2,000 applicants -to work with a Cabinet officer, the vice-president or a senior member of the president's staff. 
A majority of the candidates have college degrees, and many have ,professional or graduate training. All exhibit potential for leadership and contribution to the community. The pro­gram seeks to develop this potential. 
Rodolpho Sandoval, professor of law a_t Notre D~me, qualified as a national finahst for a White House Fellowship both in 1974-75 and 1978-79. He said the program offers a chance to witness the ''interaction of the dynamics oflaw, economics and 
politics." 
He added that experience was a~ invaluable aid in broadening hts outlook and enabling him to met;t ~~ny politically promin­ent tndJVtduals. The experience also gave him ''an appreciation of how education fits into society-in general, and a feel for leadership in society.'' 
Sandova-l noted that on a ~egional level . applicants are Judged on their credentials ­what they've done · whereas evaluations of national finalists are based on potential-what applicants might do. 
"It is important that the applicant exhibits a plan or order to his life; that he knows where he fits in the scheme of things,'' he stated. 
Sandoval believes Notre Dame can add a unique dimensfon to the program· a "moral fiber for society.'' He feels Notre Dame can provide the academic rigor and competition of Harvard or Stanford, but also adds a cer­tain spiritual strength. 
He sees the sense of commun­ity and service to others found at Notre Dame as just the sort of attitude the fellowship pro­gram was designed to foster. 
I. 
I I I I I 
I 
I . I 
I 
I 
L 


Would y_ou like more time for this ? 
,,_.,._ 
• 

Attend a free 
Evelyn Wood Mini-Lesson at: Tuesday through Friday: Each day at 3:30 and 7:_30pm. ;.· ....· .,.. .· 
Room C-127 In the Notre Dame A.C.C. 
I 
')• 
I
~ Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics 
-----------------------~------------------------~ 

-------------------------~-----------­
• 
f 

The Observer :1TueSday, September 18, 1979·-f)ige 9 
[cmUilrua'from page 2] also failed to show up at a!ready announced its h~atin~ tee staff director, told the panel subcommittee is attempting to yesterday's hearing on heat­od plan ... We do not believe It that Texaco's _promise to freeze 
datermine whether the mdustry mg oiljrices, but these all wou!d_ be appropriate. for us.to heating oil pnces was mislead­will heed Caner's appeal for a promise to send representa­partiCipate m diSCUSSIOnS With ·in~, He noted that lthe "pro­
price freeze. tives ro a subsequent session, competitors regarding their fut­mise" only covers the rest of Eight other oil companies Moffett said. ure heating oil pricing policies this year -before the heaviest In a Sept. 14 letter released and related plans.,. , part of the heating season gets ­
by the subcommittee, Texaco ] ohn Galloway, subcommit-underway.President ] ohn K. McKinley 
told Moffett: $2.00 diseoo'ntoff season,\ pass or weekday lift ticket. "as you know, Texaco has 
·j SKI CLOSE Commission 




l TOCAMPUS 
i\ONLY 12 MILES FROM SOUTH BEND· 

sponsors 
'; -downhill skiing and cross-country 
~ -quad chairlift . . ~ -ski school-GLM Amencan racmg o -night skiing--all slopes illuminated 

Chicago trip 
~ -lodge with cafeteria, game room, bar 
Attention students: 
\ 
The Notre Dame Cultural Arts Commission is sponsoring 
one time offer only S60. 
a trip to Chicago, under the 
Llm.ited pass good mon -thurs.
direction of Assistant Cultural Arts Commissioner Nancy 
Students only Deadline for purchase: 
Ryan, to see the Broadway 
Sept. 30th. 
musical "Annie". The trip is open . to all 
J&nual Balltg !;ki f&tsnrt 
interested Notre Dame stu­dents. Tickets will be sold on a 
R. No. 1 Box 434, Maffi St. BuChanan,
first come first serve basis in the ·Student Union office on the 
MI 49107 (616) 695-3847
second floor of LaFortune Student Center, starting today, for $11. 7 5 . The ticket price includes a ticket for the show and transportation costs. 
Buses will leave from the Library circle at 10 a.m.' on 
YOUR 

Saturday, October 13th, for the 
2 p.m. matinee performance, 
EDUCATION 
and will return at 7 p.m. 
DOESN'T
This is the first time the Student Union Cultural Arts 
STOP

Commission has sponsored a 
trip to see a Broadway musical. 
HERE

"Annie" won seven Tony Awards, including one award for best musical. 
Your education doesn't stop with a baccalaureate degree. It begins there. Once you enter the world of work, you will gain valuable ex­perience and really discover what it's all about to use what you learned in college. ·
Card club 
Take the Air Force for example. As a commissioned officer you11 be handed executive responsibility on your very first job. You11 manage people and complex systems. You11 be expected to perform well. and you11 be paid well, too. It's worth working for.
plans 
• 
You can get there through the Air Force ROTC program. In fact, we have a scholarship plan that will net you $100 a month tax free and 
pay lor all tuition. books and lab lees. And that will free you to concen· 
meettnl( 
trate on your studies so you can get well prepared lor where you're headed. Check it out. Find out how you can get into a "graduate" program 
The Rook and Euchre Card 
like the Air Force. It's a great way to serve your country, and possibly 
Club will hold an O}'~anizational 
lind your formal education extended at Air Force expense as welL 
meeting to ni_ght_ "rrom 7 
AFROTC DET 225
to 9 p.m. in th€ ballroom of 
Univ. of Notre Dame
LaFortune. Members are asked to bring 
Captam Davis (219) 283-6634 
a deck of cards. Everyone is welcome. If unable to attend, contact either Mike at 6839 or Brian at 
3185. ROTC 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
• 








An Tostal 

Applications are .available for Executive Staff ·Positions in the following areas: 
Vice-Chairmen(2) Night Events Chairman 
Comptroller Personnel Chairman 
Secretary Publicity Chairman 
Day Chairmen(3) Mobilization Chairman 
Special Events Chairman Keeper of the Zoo Commissioner of Basketball 
Jf questions call, John Callaway -28 7-4635 An Tostal Chairman 
• Pick up application .from S. U. secretar_y in Lafortune eDeadlinefor application is 5pm Monday, Sept. 24 






-......... 

The Observer-SportsBoard 
Tuesday, September 18, 1979-page 10 
~~.~~~~~ 

Baseball 
NatiOIIIII..IIQue East 
GB
VI L t. 
Pittsburg~ 
.605 . Montreal 87 58 .600 
89 58 

1 St Louis 1l
78 69 .531

Philadelphia 13
n 12 517

Chicago 15
74 73 .503

New York 32
.W:
56West 89 Cincinnati 85 65 •.567 Houston 83 66 .557 Los Angeles • 72 78 .480 San Francisco 67 84 .444 San Diego 62 88 .413 Atlanta 59 89 .399 


Today's Games Boston (Torrez 14-12) at Toronot (Huffman 6-55), (n) New York (Guidy 17-7) at Cleveland (wise 15-8). (n) Baltimore (Flanagan 22-7) at Detroit (Petry 5-5), (n) Minnesota (Goltz 14-11) at Chicago (Kravec 12-13), (n) California (Frost 14-9) at Kansas City (Gale 9-9), (n) · Texas (Jenkins 14-13) at Oakland (McCatty 11-9), (n) Texas (Jenkins 14-13) at Oakland (McCatty 11-9). (n) Milwaukee (Mitchell 3-7) at Seattle 
(Branch (}-1), (n) 
Notre D1m1 lams. cl Jamieson. If Simendinger, 3b ;,ndrews. 3b Montaoann rlh 
Valenzuela. 1b 
Scanlon 1b 
Voellinger, c 
Bartish, ss Szajko, rf Groier, rl Barrows, 2b 
Siler. 2b 
TOTAL 

NOTRf DAME  
AB  R  H  
3  2  0  
5  1  1  
3  0  1  
1  0  0  
4  1  1  
3  0  1  
0  1  0  
2  2  2  
2  1  0  
3  1  1  
0  1  0  
3  0  1  
1  1  1  
30  11  10  

Notre Dame 200 400 'i 11 
Tri-State 000 000 (}--Q 
28-Jamieson. HR-Voellinger 
A~ 
lams. cf 1:\ Jamieson. If 3 Grozier,lf 1 Simendinger. 3b 3 Andrews, 3b 1 Montagano, c 3 Valenzuela. 1b 4 Voellinger, dh 4 Bartish, ss 3 Szajko. rt 3 Scanlan, rt 0 Barrows. 2b 2 Siler, 2b 1 
3(
TOTAL 
Ellt 

Pet. GB Baltlmon 97 so .660 
w L 

11
Milwaukee 87 6~ .584 

14V!
Boston 82 64 .562 

16%
New York 80 66 .548 

18
Detroit 80 69 .537 

23%
Cleveland 74 74 .500 

48%
Toronto 49 99 .331 INist California 
81 68 .544 Kansas City 

78 71 .523 3 Minnesota 
77 72 .517 4 Texas 
74 76 .493 7V2 Chicago 65 83 .439 15% 
63 87 .420 18V2
Seattle Oakland 

52 98 .347 29V2 
Today's Games 

Chicago (Reuschel17-10 and Caudill (}-7) at New York (Swand 12-12 and Berenguer (}-1 ), 2, (t-n) 
Pittsburgh (Kison 1(}-7) at Montreal (Lee 15-10), (n) 
Philadelphia (Noles 3-3 or Espinosa 14-11) at St. Louis (Vuckovich 13-10). (n) 
Houston (Williams 4-5 or Pladson (}-0) at Sar Diego (Rasmussen 4-9), (n) Atlant , .olomo 6-12) at Los Angeles 
(Reuss 6-13). (n) Cincinnati (Bonham 8-6) at San Francisco (Whitson 6-10), (n) 
1. TFII-STATE 0 Tri-State. 
Riegle. 2tl Glass. c Serafin, 'b Patterson, ~ Evert, dh Kloss, 3tl Wolfe. If Stillson, pr Wireman. rt Downing, cf 
TOTAL 
PITCHING Notre Dame B<.itlett. w Smith Handrich 
Tri-State Serafin, L 

NOTRE DAME 8, TRI-STATE 1 
R 1 1 0 1 0 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 0  H 1 2 0 1 1 1 3 2 1 0 0 1 1  Tri-State Riegler, 2b Glass, c Serafin. p Paholak. 1b Dunn, Stillson, If Mishler, Ruden, Stonebruner, TOTAL  
8  14  



Sl.OO OFFII 
any ollbu• o• top• (now thru Oct. 7, '1 limit 1 coupon per person)l 
18,000 albums and tapes In stock 
ND/StnC stud.nt checks accepted for u J20.00 OV4K purchase QR\Ount Op•n 10 to 10, 7 days a w••k 
River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 North 3 mil•• nolth of CQR\pua 
277~42 
......................................
, 

H 3 0 0 3 0 2 3 0 1 3 0 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 0 
AB R 

24 0 3 
IP R H ER SO 88 
4 0 3 0 8 4 
2 1 1 1 3 1 
1 0 0 0 1 1 
7 8 14 5 5 

AB R H 4 0 0 3 0 1 3 0 0 1 1 1 3 0 1 3 0 0 2 0 1 2 0 0 3 0 0 
24 4 
Notre Dame 204 0' 0 1--~ 

2B-Simendinger, Jamieson, Voellinger.
Tri-State 000 001 (}--. 
HR-Montagano, Voellinger. 



RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern Indiana'a largest record and tape selection and concert ticket headquartera 
p to 

I 
[continued from page 12) 

Well, when Don Kidd, playing in his ftrst game since coming here three years ago, sacked B. J. Dickey, his mother was in tears of joy. That's emotional. ' ·; 
Want more? , 
Well, after the game some of the coaches were in tears of joy. Now that's emotional. 
Then there was the celebrating outside the stadium in Ann Arbor, the near riot in the dining halls for Saturday's dinner, and ·that greeting the team received upon returning Saturday. . 
We had just gotten back from Ann Arbor and were driving up Notre Dame Avenue when the start of the crowd swarmed my car. Neither Mike, Bill, Chris or I could believe it. 
Yeah, there was definitely something special about Saturday's win. 
And now, in closing, I would like to pay special 
_. 
Football 

Sports Briefs,____-----. 
Amerlun Confti'IIICI East 

Leagues honor Yaz, Rose 
w l T Pet. 
Miami 3 0 0 1.000 New England 2 1 0 .667 

Boston Red Sox great Carl Yastraemski who last week 
Buffalo 1 2 0 .333 

became the ftrst American League player t~ collect 3 000 hits 
N.Y. Jets 1 2' 0 .333 Baltimore 0 3 0 .000 

and belt 400 homers in a career, was named the ieague's 
Central 

Player of the Week, AL President Lee MacPhail said 
Cleveland 3 0 0 1.000' 
Monday.
Pittsburgh 3 0 0 1.000 

Also Monday, Pete Rose of the Philadelphia Phillies was
Houston 2 1 0 .667 

nam~d the National League's Player of the Week, league
Cincinnati 0 3 0 .000 

Prestdent Charles Feeney said.
West 
San Diego 3 0 0 1.000 Denver 2 1 0 .667 Dansas City 1 2 0 .333 Oakland 1 2 0 .333 


SMC Volleyball team looses
Seattle 1 2 0 .333 N1tlonal Confnnce East 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team lost tts season opener
Dallas 3 0 0 1.000 Philadelphia 2 1 0 .667 

Friday to Vincennes University. Although the match scores 
Washington 2 1 0 .667. 

were disappointing (15-7, 15-11 · 15-3), coach Erin Murphy
,0
St. Louis I .333 

was not dtscouraged with her team. "The team looks
N.Y.Giants 0 3 0 .000 

promising," she commented, "but they need more work."
c,ntrai Tampa Bay 3 0 0 1.()()( 

Murphy credited Marianne Viola with an excellent night at Chicago 2 1 0 .667 
the net. Viola spiked 14 percent for kills on the evening. 
Green Bay 1 2 0 .333 

Murphy also complimented Kathy Monahan for her
Minnesota 1 2 0 .333 

effectiveness at the service line for the Belles, and this year's
Detroit 0 3 0 .000 West 

co-captains, Amy Morris and Terri Walters, for their Atlanta 2 1 0 .667 
leadership in the match against Vincennes . 
Lo~ Angeles 2 1 0 .667 

The Belles next match is tonight at Hope College
San Francisco 0 3 0 .000 New Orleans 0 3 .o .000 
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 

... ND Open 
' Washington 27, New York 0 

(continued from pa{:e 12) 
one short of what he needed to The Top Twenty teams in The Itie Lundgren. His strong show-Associated PrP•s co:''!Qe football pull, 
ing earned him the silver 
with first-place votes in ~rentheses, 
medallion for second place.
records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13-12·11-1(}-9-8 
McGuinness, a returning 
7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 
member of last year's golf team, . has also earned the 
1. So. Cal. (49) 2-Q-0 1,227 
praise of Noel O'Sullivan, the
2. Alabama (12) 1-Q-0 1,153 3. Oklahoma 1-Q-0 1,017 
Irish golfcoach. While McGuin­

4. Texas (1) (}-(}-0 976 , ness made the ·ream in his 5. NOTRE DAME 1-0-Q 953 
sophomore year, he received
6. Penn State 1-Q-Q 947 
very little playing time at first.
7. Nebraska 1-Q-0 815 8. Michigan State 2-Q-0 781 
But his good attitude and 
9. Missouri 2-D-0 613 
tremendous desire to improve
10. Houston 2-D-0 578 
his game prompted O'Sullivan
11. Michigan 1-1-0 527 
to give him a shot at 'playing in
12. Washington 2-Q-0 514 13. Pittsburgh 1-Q-0 406 
competition. 
14. Florida State 2-(}-0 386 
"Bill's positive attitude and 
15. Arkansas 1-Q-0 384 
loyalty to the team told me to
16. Ohio State 2-Q-0 364 
give him a chance to play,''
17. Purdue 1-1-Q 293 18. Southern Methodist 2-Q-0 204 
O'Sullivan said, "and neither I 

19. No. Car. State 2-Q-0 198 ! nor the team have regretted
20. UCLA 1-1-Q 162 

I 
this decision.'' 
O'Sullivan went on to say ·-that McGuinness possesses the qualities that he looks for in a ... Netters player. ''I'm nor interested in only numbers. I'm also interest­ed in the player as a person, [continued from page 12) and Bill McGuinness exempli­fies the type of individual that I Giannis 6-4, 6-1. It rook SMC's want on my ream." Smith and O'Brien three sets to Capturiqg the bronze medal take their Va!po opponents, for third place, five strokes Tebert and Wet!, 6-4, 4-6 and behind McGuinness, was soph­6-1. At the final spot, third omore Bob Horak who came in doubles, Bracken and Dvonch with a solid 287 for the tourna­of Saint Mary's downed Wilson ment. Horak, along with sen­and Peterson 6-3, 6-4. iors Bob Gibson and Eric Bauw­
Saturday the squad will ens, and freshmen Tom Svete travel to Purdue as the Belles and Sroney Ferlman, will join set out to defend their 2-1 the five returning members of season record. last year's team to make up the 1979-80 Irish golf squad. 
Coach O'Sullivan, who serv­ed as director of the Notre Dame Open, expressed some thoughts about this year's tour­nament. "I was pleased that so many players(25) finished all 72 holes m the tournament. Even the guys that knew they didn't have a chance to win a medal finished because they wanted the tournament experience.'' 
O'Sullivan also credited Joe Harlow, the manager of the Burke course, and hts staff with contributing to the success of the Open by keeping the course in such fine condirion for the players. 
Ruggers 
(conhnued from page II) 
The 'B' team fought back gallantly to tie Michigan, 10-10, when Joe Gill converted with only two minutes left. F. J. Brosnan and Hank 'Kerchief scored trys for the Irish to lead the comeback charge. 
Another defensive struggly found the 'C' clubbers losing a tough 7-0 decision to the Wolv­erines. All three teams travel 
to  West  Lafeyette  for  en­ 
counters  with  Purdue  next  
Saturday.  

• Spirit 
tribute to some people: 
To the guy with the beard sitting in my section behind the end zone -good job orchestrating all those cheers, but I'm kmd ofglad that one didn't catch on. It was a might vulgar. 
To that one busload of people, whoever they were, who the student body swarmed halfway dowii Angela Saturday nighr -oops, sorry, bur 
_ all those buses look alike. 

To' the guy who climbed atop the lead bus Saturday night and rode shotgun down Notre Dame Avenue -how did you ger up there anyway? 
And lastly, to a Irish ~an named Mary Pat -she was sttttng in the Michigan 
student cheering section, and since she was . being so "obnoxious," got passed up a few ~ rows. Let's, er, give her a hand. 
Like Marty said, it was a student body victory. 
Onward go the Irish. 
The Observer -Sports ··Tuesday, September 18, 197~-f)a~~·.· t:t 
by Mike Previte 

knee canilage. Mike McGlynn,· Jr., injured final of 18-14.Ruggers Sports Writer The Ruggers managed to dent early in the game. Only one "Losing Mike {Allair) was The Notre Dame Rugby Team Michigan's armor in the first substitution was allowed, so definitely the turning point,'' 
(A) dropped a nip_ a!ld tuck half when Bowers ambled over McGlynn got a chance to show said Bowers, noting the fact 
18-14 battle at Mtchtgan on from ten yards out following a some true fonitude in the th.~M his presence on the last two 
drop match, 
Saturday despite two trys by penalty kick. Allair's two point second half. He scored the kicks could have tied it up. Jim "Bowman" Bowers. The conversion kick kept ND close second Notre Dame try to "We held those guys to only loss looms as a costly one for (down 10-6) at the half. narrow the deficit to five, then one try!" (The Wolves had 4
lose players the Irish who may have lost The Irish also saw Okie set up Bowers' second tally of field goals.) _ kicker Mike Allair with .torn O'Connor (15-stitch cut) and the contest to account for the . [continued on page 10] -
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.• two days prior
-

to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.






Classifieds . 
shifts. No experience needed but we G.A. tickets needed for any home game. Someone please sell me 3 Georgia Tech. Eucharistic. Ministers: Tuesd:J, Sep­prefer 21 year aids. Apply In person Call Dan, Leo, or Gerry 3589. GA's. Jenny 6968. tember 18, 7:30 p.m. in Sacr Hea~
Notices 
52129 U.S. 31 N. between 9 and 5, Church. (Attendance at this meeting Is 
Gropps Famous Fish of Stroh. Badly need at least 6 MSU GA tlx. Will "Need 2 So. Cai-N.D. tix. Rich Uncle required of all who plan to serve In this 
be s=ed to Iran if I don't get them. pays. Close to 50 yard. Call 6424." ministry.)
Social Concerns Film Series, Sun. Sept. Wanted: Stud'ents to unload trucks, Call ask for Pat. 
16 through Fri. Sept. 21. No charge. part-time, to be on call. Apply daytime at Need several GA tickets for home games ! TO: King's Cellar In Roseland. Desperately need 6 U.S.C. GA tlx. Call except USC and South Carolina. Call Goose (who knows everything),
Used book shop. Open Wed., Sat., Sun. Frank at 3092. Susan 4-1-4868. Grass(who can chan~e tires),
9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Rd. I need a ride to Milwaukee, Friday 21. Berk (who drives wit out tail ll~hts), and 
Niles. 683-2888 Call Beth, SMC 4991 Desperately need 12 GA tickets to Will trade 4G.A. Michigan State tix for 2 Freshman Joe (who doesn't dr nk)Wanted: dorm refrigerator, gold-beige Georgia Tech. Call Eric 1384 Southern Cal. G.A. tix. Call: 232-6667 I really enjoyed your compan~ this 
Volunteers Needed; carpeting for sale $20, 2106 
1] Entertain paraplegic youn8sters, Need 2 GA Purdue or MSU tlx. Carl mentally retarded, or elderly In onva-Need ride to Miami of Ohio on Sept. 21st. 232-8594, 283-3881. lescent Canter. Please call Jenny 41-5154 
2] Aid Justice and Peace Canter In COUSIN FROM AUSTRALIA WANTS composing and typing letters on defenses Colonial Caterers at Century Center TO SEE FOOTBALL. Prefers to see 
of various Issues; or~anlzlnS the new needs part time bartenders, busboys, Southern Cal. Will pay in American (and your roommate)Near Wast Side Nal,h orhoo Organlza-cashiers, waiters, waitresses and kitchen dollars. Keep cousin Cedrlck from being Desperately nPed four to six GA tickets tlon; or helping n the Ball Bond personnel. Breakfast and Luncheon help bummed._ Mick-8212. for '''chigan State, willing to paJc $$$$$. OFFERING A TICKET TO SOLD-OUT Program. needed most. Apply In kitchen across Parents w1!! disown me if I on't get CHEAP TRICK CONCERT 9/20 AT 
Contact Volunteer Services -7308 from entrance 4 In rear of Century Wanted: GA tickets for any home game. them. Call1002 or 1736. WINGS, KALAMAZOO IN EXCHANGE 
Center. Name your price. Call Rick 2n-2212. FOR A RIDE 0 AND FROM CONCERTI Cozmlk Productions, The finest bands for Money no object for 2 G .A. USC tix. Call MICK 272-3188. your dance, formal or party. Ll'test Fortran ProgrammerIAnalyst Need 2 or more GA tix for Michigan Larry at 232-Q384. selection represented on campus. all Participate In the development and State. Call Kathy 4n6 (SMC) I will negotiate an entire padded seat now for prima fall dates. Mlck-8212 writing of applications programs in the Need Michigan State tixs. Big Bl!cks! student basketball ticket and cash for 4 
field of data base photo typesetti~. the Need GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call Call Stan 1878. U.S.C. F.B tlx. Call Donna 6782. Contact Lens Wearers. Save on Brand positionrequires at least 2 years ortran Kathy 4n6 (SMC) name hard or soft lens supplies. Send for experience with skills at dealing with data Need 4 GA's for MSU. Will pay big Campus Kennedy 80' Group forming.free illustrated catallllj; Contact Lens management problems. Any PDP-11 or Need USC ticket tor little sister: Call bucks. Call Jeff 8764. Call Paul at 8451 now. Supplies, Box 7453, hoenix, Arizona composition experience Is helpful. Salary Kathy-6804 
85011. Is open. Send resume to: PO Box 570, Desperately need 5GA tlx to Tennessee! Joel H. South Bend, IN 46624. Need 2 Purdue tickets. Top dollar paid. Call John at 3656. I Love you!! Why don't you call? Volunteers needed to tutor: Call anytime 287-6942 Laura 
1] VIetnamese children In South Bend Boar's Head Restaurant Is now hlrln~ full Need Southern Cal. tickets. Will f:Y top schools. and part time busboys, dish was ers, Need at least 4 Michigan State-N.D. dollar. Call Joe after 10. 232-60 4. Suzy M, ~ Two BoX'· 11 and 12 years of age, In cocktail waitresses and hostesses. pply in tickets. Call 256;1374 You're driving me wild and 1barely know 
ath, Eng Ish and Spelling, evenings or person Monday through Frida~ between Will pay $60 for two adjacent GA USC you. Let's get better acquainted.Saturday . 2and 4:30. Equal Opportunity mployer. If you have two Navy GA tickets you tickets. Call Mark 1478. J.M. 
3] Two students to taka G.E.D. exam In would like to sell, I'd like to talk to you. English and Math. Help Wanted:Herbie'S DELl NEEDS Bill1175 Will trade 4 GA's to Geor?tia Tech for 4 Joe Zack,Contract Volunteer Services -7308 DRIVER FOR CAMPUS ROUTE. 1o-12 GA's to MSU. Call Jeff 8 64. You forgot underwear AGAIN! Mr. Bill 
hours/wk. Good ~Y· Must have Please, Please, Please-Help. ·I need 3-4 is holding them for ransom. You know 
N.D. Features writers Mtg., 10:30, transportation. 234 19 ND -Purdue G.A. tlx. Ptall John at 1207 Need 2 GA tickets for USC Game. Call where to reach us.... 
Thursday night in Observer office to any time!! Thanks. Bill 8288. assign articles. Wanted: Roommate(s) $20 weekly, Hey Ted K., does the public really
includes utilities. Inquire 410 N. Hills Desperately need 1Michigan State ticket. Need any amount of GA tlx for MSU or consider It all water under the bridge?SMC Features Writers: Meeting In Street, Pagliacci Restaurant. Name the price 8634 USC. Match any offer! 1845-Jeff. McCandless piano room on Thursday at Happy 20th Birthday Bob Manqlnoll You 
9:00 p.m. to assign articles. Immediate Opening at the University Desperately need 1student or GA ticket I will do anything for 6 to 10 student .haven't had much time to recover from 
Club for experienced noontime barten-to the Michigan St. game. Call Dave at and/or GA till for Mich. St. amJ/or USC. Michigan but that doesn't excu11 youSkydlversiGoshen is offering the class-der. Call 283-1242 for interview or come 6939. Please call Steve -8696. Soon! from your shotsl room half of your training here on to the club after 10:00 a.m. Love,campus! Anyone planning to make their Will pay $120 for four decent U.S.C. Michigan State tickets needed! S.A. or 
Anne 

first jump at Goshen sometime this fall Wanted: United Airlines discount tix. tickets. Also need student ticket forMich-G.A. Call Paul: 1402 must attend one of these sessions. They Call Mark at 8760. igan State. Call Bob 288-2484 The magic bus was...15 on a road trip to 
will be offered throughout the next 4 to 6 Need 2-4 G.A. tickets for any home game Michigan, beer, fuses blown, flashingweeks·wlth varyin~ weekly schedules, to Watermelon Bust!! Desperately need -Dan 2n-1318 lights, Kalamazoo, stolen hat, aflag from
there once was a game In South Bend,
be announced. his week, meet 5:30 ride to Indy on Fri., Sept. 21 to attend this 
Some friends to see It I' II send,
p.m. Tues., Wed., or Thurs. in LaFortune Butler U. funfest. Will share gas, But tickets I still need,(Room 20). Lasts approx. 3 hours. Bring expenses. Call Kelly at 1817. 
this advice you should heed,pen and $40, cash or check. 
They'll pay handsomely just to attend.
' 
Call Mark 8106 -MSU GA.
Morrissey Loan Fund Student loans $20 to $200. 1 percent I desperately need SEX -No Tenn. Tlx ­


For Sale 
interest charge. Open M-F 11:30-12:30. 
Yes. Call1266 or 1267.
Basement of LaFortune. Help... Need 2 GA tlx to Purdue. Call
Tyreing In home. Fast, accurate, reason-For Sale: Moped-Need of ReFo:lr, Dianne. 28-3882.
abe. Close by. Call 272-4105 after 5 Highest Bid, Notre Dame Credit Un on ­p.m. 4454 
$$$Need 2-4 GA tlx to an~ home game. f$Sa11y MSU. Call at at 1651.
75 Mere Bobcat Wagon P/S, New Steel Radials, New Brakes, Mech Sound. Very


For Rent 
~ood Transportation, 81,000 mi. Call ack 287-2723 I need one GA or student tlcbt to any Furnished country house, private, ten 
home football game. Call Bill 8444. 
For Sale, LarBe Quanti'!. of used golf
minutes to campus, Ideal for two to six 
people. 2n-3604, 288-ll955 balls. 4/$1. all Dave, 14. ·$$$$Need 2-4 GA tickets to any home game-especially MSU. Call Pat at 1651. 
Silk Screen T-shirts, hi~ profits com-elate instructions, Send to: A.B.M., 
Two GA MSU tickets lor sale. Best offer. 
ox 335, East Rutherford, New Jersey, 
Call after 11 p.m. Anne 7936.


Lost & Found 
07073. Refund on first order of any supplies. Wanted 1 GA or Student ticket for GA Tech. Call MB 8060 or Dan 277-o333.

I lost amaroon wallet In the South Dining Win afree trip for two to the N.D./MiamlHall at Tues. Dinner. Contains everthlng game In Tokyo, Japan. A fifteen day 
Need 4 USC GA tickets. Will beat any

Important that I have. Reward. vacation to the Orient tor only $5.00. For offer, money no object. Call Jack 8700.
Rod6719 weekend. By the way, who did NotreHave to have 4 GA tickets for Michigan Dame play Saturday?

St. Call Rick 8698. 
" Sue Berk
I 
Desperate! Need two GA Michigan State Kirbytickets! Call Jane 6372. 
I tolp you I'd put a personal In for you 
Ireland, Ttm jamming on the ~ultar,"Desperately need 2 GA tlx to MSU Bimbo's, stolen mugs and signs, w ofell game. Will pay good $. Call 4-4385." 
asleep early Friday night? Killing the keg ...only 2 more beers each Chuck!
Need G.A.'s and student tlx to all home Waking up at six, Chuck and Tom; alias 
games. Call Beth 4-1-5710 or Kate the honedmooners, Mr. and Mrs.(pr~­
4-1-5220. 
nant) ol style, tallgater with peop e 
Mafia Family members coming In for Georgia Tech game. Make an offer -I can't refuse. Need 2 GA tlx. Call Little John at 1947, 3087, Or 1003. 
Willing to ~lve Almost Anything for 3GA tix to Mlch gan Statep:me and anl other home games. Call 5 0 or 4571 ( MC) 
Mo:'f no object, Need 4 GA tlcUts tor Georg a Tech or USC. Call 4140 [SMC) we've never seen!, taking pictures, the game itself, NO fight song atn and again and a~lan, 4 cases and uthern comfort on t e way home...(Ken do you care to comment) sidewalk parking, recovery(?) at Gooses, without Danny, where would we be?, Purdue?? 
Who paints oink arrows on her walls and has a birthday on Friday? Mary Beth Sterling!! 
B.A.D.,
Need one ticket to Tenn. Desperately! I I still think you're worth at least one Call Mary Ann 4-1-4347 Gumball on Sundays. Love,
Need 4 tlx to U.S.C. Please call Betlt 
O.P.G. 
41-4298 
Carolyn-
Desperately need 2GA tlx lor MSU. Gall "Piece of Cake" Wasn't It? -Thanks for Jake 3180 alvlng me the Inspiration to jump out of od's heavens. 
Need 2 student or GA tlx for Georgia Pat Tech. Will pay$. Tom 3362 
ticket Info call Georgette 287-9628. 

There were some young lassies fromDrawing Sept. 20, 1979. Wanted Urgently -2tickets to the Notre Desperately need GA's for Mich. St. or Eire,Lost: Gold Cross Pen with nama 
Dame-Southern Cal ~me October 20. Georgia Tech. Call Tom 1610. A Gooney Is what they desire,engraved, Thurs. morning. Sentimental U.S.C. &So. Carolina tlx for sale. Best 
Call after 6:00 p.m. 15-790-0368. Seamus came In and said with a grin
value. Reward. Call 7854 offer!! Cindy 5742 Desperately needed, 2 U.S.C. or So. My Gooney will set you on fire! Much dinero lor tow GA USC tix -call Carolina tickets. Cathy 4789 
Free Toothbrush with any order over

Lost: Little Caesar is missing! Zahm's marc 8378. Mark­
$5.00from Avon. Call Marge at 233-6581

new plastic man was stolen Monday Wanted: 1o-12 GA tickets to Geor~a You weren't rude. I was in a hurry, too. ni~ht. the purloined article Is of great evenings and weekends. WillCllr top$ tor student or GA usc tlx-Tech or Navy games. Can trade 4 a Ma~ va ue personally and monetarily. lnfor-call il 3549. South Carolina tickets. Call Erick 1384. P.S. will this personal old 2cases of beer
Need a Refrl~erator? Sarin has one

mation leading to Its locaton will be and a pizza? 
rewarded. It was a gift, and we want It cheap. Only $ 0. Contact Dave at 8782. I am going to stomg on every squirrel I Will pay anything lor student or GA S.C. back! see unless 1 get Georgia Tech GA tickets -Dan 1606. Freeblid, The Boyz tickets -and soon! (Sick, huh?) Call Happy Birthday Hope you enjoy this 
Crash at 8627. Need 2 or 4 Michigan State tickets, Call year.-Afriend
Laura 1674 
Desired: Any 1 USC ticket. Call Joe at


Tickets 

8192. Need GA tickets for Southern Cal. Game. What can you do with a Liberal Arts

Wanted 
Will pay big bucks. Call Jane-283-8012 d~ree? Denise Cavanaugh can tell! you -
HeiCI Need student tickets to Georgia 

I'll pay good money for 2 GA to USC col ege to Career D~s. SMC Sunday,
Tee . Bath 4-4991 

and/or1 tic to MSU. Please help. Tony-Desperately need 2-4 G.A. tickets tO Sept. 23, 8:00p.m.; arroll Hall. 
Need ride to U of I (Champaign) 1247. Georgia tech game. Call Dick 1224
Desperately need 5 GA Navy tickets.

September 21. Will share driving/ex-Fuzzhead,
Please call Jenny 41-5154.

penses. Mike 6758 or 6853 Desperately need USC tickets. Will pay John Lee will never be the same! Immediate openings for part time and full your price. Call Lance 1027. I Kewer

Personals
GA tickets needed for any home gametime waitresses. Afternoon and evenln,P 


Tuesday, September 18, 1979 -pa~e 12


SRorts 
Irish nine 
sweep twinbill 
by Bill Marquard Sports Writer 
It may only be fall practice, 
but you certainly can't tell that 
to the Nom· Dame baseball 
team. 
The Irish d1amond men, paced 
by both strong hitting and 
stingy pitching, swept a rwinbill 
from Tri-State by 11-0 and 8-1 
counts on Sunday afternoon. 
"What pleases me most of all 
is that we used so many players 
today," commented Irish head 
coach Tom Kelly. 
) uniors Mike Deasey and Many Vuono combined for a 3-hit shutout in the opener as the offense, aided by 8 Tri-State walks, posted 11 runs on 10 hits. 
"Deasey had very good con­
trol, he dido' t walk a single 
batter in his five innings," 
noted Kelly, entering his fifth 
year as Irish sandlot mentor. 
'Dan Voellinger really pulled the trigger at the plate, but the team, as a whole, put the hits to~ether when thev had to.'' 
Voellinger, a senior catcher/ designated hitter went 4 for 6 on the day, scorin~ 3 runs. 
The Rockford, Illmois native cracked a home run in each game, barely missing a third which went foul by inches. Junior Jim Montagano also smacked" :1 round-tripper in the 
nig~ttcap. 
Bob Bartlett, Bryan Smith 



Saint Mary's netters recover from opening loss 
by Beth Huffman Women 's Sports Editor 

A loss in the season opener is enought to discourage anyone, but a good team won't let it get the~ down. Saint Mary's tenms team, after losing its first match with DePauw, came bouncing back in their second to overpower Valparaiso 8-1 on Tuesday, and Indiana State University 8-1 on Friday. The two victories, pushing the Belles' record to 2-1, set the stage Saturday for a first place tie at the ND/SMC Tourney on the Irish courts. 
Saint Mary's tied the Irish with 18 team points to lead a field of eight 10 the tourney. Patsy Coash, competing at first singles, defeated Linda Hayer from Notre Dame in a match the Belles' coach Sandy Frey said Coash "won easily." Frey continued to say the freshman stand out has yet to face true competition--• 'she has been far and above better than anyone she has faced.'' 
Karen Smith and Jane Dvonch, in second and fourth singles, respectively, won third place in the consolation bracket at the tourney. The doubles team of O'Brien and Fitzgerald topped the team from Saint Francis to win 6-4, 7-5 in their third place consolation bid. Terri Bracken and Mo O'Brien 
and Tim Handrich combined to 
Wins b_y one stroke
limit the Tri-Staters to four hits in the night cap, while Irish bats drove in eight runs on the wake-of a 14-hit attack. 


Lundgren takes ND Open
"Bartlett had pitched only a 
couple of innings in practice prior to Sunday," commented Kelly. "We gave 5 members of our pitching staffsome work, so we'll probably go with an entirely new crew of pitchers for Frid~v." 
The Insh face Valparaiso in their next single-game test on Friday. 
Not only did the Irish sand­lotters dtsplay offensive prow­ess ana pitching depth, but their defense came through as wrll 
"We played a steady defense. We're new up the middle, at short, second and center, but we didn't give up much there. The team hasn't done much ·work at all with a set lineup, so it was gratifying to see them gel! together so well." 
As long as that gell doesn't freeze over the winter, spring baseball prospects look good for the Irish. 
by Bill McCormick Sports Wn"ter 
Since the first Notre Dame Open was played in the early 1950's there has only been a select number of golfers who have won the tournament in consecutive years. Now that the 1979 Open has come to a close, another name must be added to that select list. 
Senior John Lundgren, who led for the entire tournament, finished with a 72-hole total of 281 to win his second straight gold medallion, the award (>re­sented to the Open champion. John's 281 is seven shots off the Open record of 274 set by Jim Culveyhouse in 1975. 
Lundgren was able to hang on to the victory despite a fine performance by junior Bill Mc­Guinness. McGuinness fired an impressive, 3-under par, score of 68 in his final round to finish 


r 
I 
~ 
I 
at 282, only one stroke off tough to catchJohn after his hot Lundgren's winning total. start(136 after 36 holes). I was 
Lundgren had already comp­just trying to shoot the best leted his four rounds when score that I could." McGuinness still had his last McGuinness' round of 68, a round to play. Asked about his personal low for him on the feelings going into the final Burke Memorial course, was eighteen holes, McGuiness re­
[con#nued on page 10)
phed, "I knew it would be finished second in their doubles division behind the St. Francis team. 

The Belles dropped just the first doubles category on Friday against Indiana State to win 8-1. ISU' s Acton proved no match for Coash who won 6-0 6-0. SMC's Fitzgerald, Smith: Manza, M. O'Brien, and Mo O'Brien rounded out the singles wins without losing a set. 
Indiana's only win was re­corded when Acton and Glass came back after losing the first . set to Terri Brack and Jane Dyonch 2-6 and notched 7-5, 6-4 wms. Gasynor McCown and Nella Dominici paired to win 7-6 in the first set and then by default in the second over the ISU second doubles team of Mosson and Barnhorst. Belles 
Janice Sacchari and Linda Radler topped ISU's Stevens and Grieseg 6-2, 6-1 to finish the match. 
After the Indiana State match coach Frey complimented her team's play and stressed that all twelve of the Belles team 
The Belles won hve of the six singles match-ups and all three doubles contests on Tuesday a~ainst Valparaiso to take a 8-1 victory. Patsy Coash, a fresh­man head lining the SMC line-up at first singles, put away her Valpo opponent 6-1, 6-1. Maureen Fitzgerald stop­ped Teben of Valpo 6-3, 6-2 while Karen Smith at third singles polished off Hoizenga 6-1, 6-2. Weil of Valparaiso fell to Maureen O'Brien 6-3, 6-4 while Mo O'Brien~ also a Belle team member, took Genny 6-3, 4-6, 6-3. Camel Manza, who holds the fourth singles berth at SMC, fell prey to Peterson 6-4, 6-2 for the team's only loss. 
In doubles action Coash teamed with Fitzgerald for the Belles to take Sanders and 
[continued on page lOj 

.4fter weekend win 
Campus erupts in victory spirit 
The majority of people who were at Michigan Stadium Saturday, I'd guess, have regained about 80 percent .of their voices by this afternoon. Those who were among the throng of over 4,000 which greeted the team back to campus Saturday night probably got the use of their vocal chords back yesterday. 
Why? 

Why, at a school where the football team ranks 
as the most famous one in the world, did 
everyone go so nuts over a 12-10 victory at the 
unfnendly Roman coliseum they call Michigan 
Stadium? 

Well, for openers, we were all here. Two years 
ago, when the Irish beat USC, October break for 
most students began right after the game. No 
one really had the time to hang around to 
celebrate the 49-19 thrashing. 

Then, later that season when Notre Dame won 
its national championship via a 38-10 hooking of 
the horns in the Cotton Bowl, most of us were 
watc~ing it on CBS while home on Christmas 
vacauon. 

Ditto for last year's come-from-behind win at -that icebox down in Dallas. 
I've been here for three years now and it was kind of nice to see the football team time an emotional victory with the presence of the student body on campus. It just creates a better atmosphere. 
I found it kind of hard to get excited back home on Long Island the last rwo years when Notre Dame won the Cotton Bowl. I mean, most of my 



Brian Beglane 
friends go to St. John's and they could care less 
about a football game down in Dallas. 
My freshman year I was one of those poor 
unfortunates who had to stay here for October 
break, and there was just not enough people 
around for anyone to get excited. 
You've got to understand. For me, it is a little 
different. I have watched every home football game the past rwo years from the press box. Saturday's game at Michigan was only my second Notre Dame football game as a spectator . . Maybe I am being naive through a lack of experience as a spectator, but ~h~re was something special about Notre Dame's wtn 
Saturday. 
Why? 

For the first time in five years, opening against a major power, the Dan Devine coached Irish wasted not rime in coming up with a big win. Forger about turning things around four or five games into the season -start out the year with a bang. That's what the Irish did Saturday. 
How emotional a victory was it? 
[continued on .baRelOJ 

----------------~----------------------~~-· 


