, , , Is NDaCatholic University-page 4 

VOL. XIII, NO. l<l2 . an independent smdent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1979 
The win~ing SG tt'cket ofChip Dornbach, Pia Trigiani, and Kathleen Sweeney. [Photo by 
Mark Rtcca] 
gin reiXJrts ' 'good progress ' ' 
Trigianiticket sweeps 


SMC SG elections 
by Pam Degnan StaffReporter 
Sixty-one percent of the Saint Mary's student body cast their ballots yesterday to decide the positions of Student Body President, Vice Pesident of Academic Affairs and Vice President of Student Affairs. The Pia Trigiani ticket rolled to a resounding victory over the Susan Glockner ticket. Individual percentages are riot available for print. 
When asked what would be her main objective after officially taking office on April 1, SBP-elect, Trigiani replied, ''I would like to revamp and clarify student government election rules and policies. There was too much vagueness in this election·-a lack of definition of policy." 
] ubilant over their victory, Chip Dornbach and Kathleen Sweeney, newly elected Vice President of Academic Affairs and Vice President of Student Affairs, respectively, expressed their appreciation to all those who voted in the election. ''It was a tough campaign. Both tickets were evenly matched but only the students can chose a winner and they did," stated Sweeney. 
Trigiani's main goal in the upcoming weeks will be the implementation of her six directives that encompass all aspects of student life. The academic directive, "access to excellence" which features a detailed course evaluation booklet and a ''ma{·ors awareness'' program geared to freshmen and sophomores wil be utilized in the near future. 
Trigiani also plans to formulate a ''workable'' liason with off-campus and day students. "There is a basic breakdown of communication between our off-campus and resident students. Hopefully with our ideas on how to improve campus relationships and those of Susan Glockner's, we will be able to establish a more comfortable atmosphere at Saint Mary's," Trigiani commented. 
Trigiani admits that the roles of student government officers must be redefined in order to make student government "a vital part of Saint Mary's." 
"There's a lot of power in our student government that hasn't been used to its potential," Trigiani observed, adding "To accomplish this objective we must work with the administration.'' 
Reidrejects Playboy 
sales in Planner 
JERUSALEM (AP)-President extended his Mideast gamble yesterday as Minister Menachem Be-reported "great progress" a last-minute negotiating "'-<'"''-"'with American officials. Carter sat out that session in King David Hotel while .S. Secretary of State Cyrus R. ance met with Begin and 
Israeli cabinet officials. "We made great progress in solving the outstanding issues" 
blocking a peace treaty between Israel and Egypt, Begin said afterward. 
But he said other problems remained ''which will be nego­tiated continuously until we find a solution for them.'' 
Vance left to report on the session to Carter. The secre­tary of state said a statement would be issued later. 
Israeli sources said four issues remained unresolved. Some needed an Egyptian reply 

Mentalist Kreskin returns for fourth straightyear 
by Dan Letcher Senior StaffReporter 
After performing before a standing room only crowd in Stepan Center last year, "The Amazing Kreskin" returns for the fourth consecutive year toni~ht at 8 in O'Laughlin auditorium. Kreskin is the world's most famous mentalist and a foremost authority in the field of E.S.P. (Extra Sensory Perception). 
''I am not a psychic, I am not an occultist, I am not a mind reader, I am not a hypnotist," Kreskin states. He explains that he is a "scientific investi­gator'' of the power of sugges­tion and various areas ofE.S.P. 
''What I do is inherent in everybody, but what I have done is learn to sensitize myself to the reactions and attitudes of people around me; under cer­tain conditions, I can sense their thoughts as well as in­fluence their thoughts,'' Kres­kin commented. 
Kreskin has assisted law authorities in solving murders in Reno and L.A. He elicited accurate descriptions of the murder suspect from witnesses in the Reno case. 
In these cases, Kreskin tned to stimulate the ima~ination and emotions of Witnesses under question through a bar­rage of suggestions. 
On stage, Kreskin uses sensi­tivity, suggestibility and humor. Humor is anintregral part of his performance; it allows him a break from the binding tension he works under. According to a press release, Kreskin loses at least three pounds during a stage presentation. 
Performance Magazine re­cently named Kreskin as. "the most astounding performer today." To sustain his credibil­ity, Kreskin offers $20,000 to anyone who can prove his employment of paid assistants or confederates 10 any phase of his program. 
"As a performer, I try to Cieate wonderment. Because I am a s~owman, I dramatize whatever ability I have. As a showman, I utilize certain fac­tors in ways the audience never thoug-ht possible,'' Kreskin explatned. 
Student Union Academic [continued on page 6] 
to Israeli proposals. 
Carter originally planned to leave yesterday. The Israeli government press office an-. nounced his v1sit was extended, but did not say for how long. Ben Gurian Airport was closed to air and ground traffic for more than four hours with a red carpet laid up to Air Force One in case Carter decided to leave. 
Earlier, in a speech to the Israeli parliament, the Knesset, Carter declared that "we still fall short'' of a treaty between Israel and Egypt. 
His speech occurred after he learned the results of an all­night cabinet session. 

American officials ori~inally hoped a treaty could be imtialed before Carter left the region. But before his meeting with Vance, Begin said he doubted all issues could be settled in 24 hours. 
At dawn the prime minister said his cabinet had made "reasonable" decisions on Egyptian peace terms durinr its 61!z -hour session. " The 11th hour talks among Begin, Vance, U.S. national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski and others reportedly centered on one of the unsettled issues: a compromise linking a treaty to self-rule for Palestin­ians in the West Bank and Gaza, officials said. 
The proposal calls for moving more quickly on creating Pal­estinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip than on the occupied West Bank. However, officials said the compromise contained no timetable for autonomy, a con­cession to Israel. 
About 400,000 Palestinians live in Gaza, which Israel captured from Egypt in the 1967 Six Day War. The Israeli-occupied West Bank, former]ordanian territory, con­tains another 700,000 Palestin­ians. 
[continued on page 2] 
By Tim Sweeney 

Director of Student Activit­ies,]ohn Reid, announced yes­terday that Flanner Food Sales will not be able to resume selling Playboy and Penthouse magazmes as part of •heir Foor Sales operation. 
This announcement came two weeks after the Observer reported that sale of the magaz­ines had been banned in Flanner because they had not been approved by Reid. He explained that such sales were not in accordance with the University merchandising policy found on page 35 of Du Lac. 
Tony Roberts, manager of Flanner Food Sales, in compli­ance with the merchandismg policy had submitted an,appli­cation for approval of the magazine sales to the Student Union Services Commission and to Reid's office. Roberts, with the support of his hall council, did this immediately after the sale of the magazines was discontinued Feb. 26. 
Reid stressed that his decis­ion to reject Roberts' applicat­ion had nothing to do with the content of the magazines, but instead with an assumed University policy that the mer­chandise sold at food sales operations is to be food and non-alcholic beverages. "It is not the purpose of food sales to serve as a mini grocery store," Reid said. 
The director said that a letter will be sent today to all hall rectors informing them that only food and non-alcoholic beverages are to be sold in their hall's food sales operation: The rector~ will ~e resl?onsible for enforcmg th1s policy. Reid pointed out, however, that he knows of only one or two other halls that offer non-food items at their food sales. 
'Such sales were not in accordance with DuLac' 

Reid emphasized that the purpose of these restraints is to make it easier for the University to monitor merchandising and to keep operations within the guidelines of the Student Union merchandising policy which prohibits the OJ,·Lampus sale of any product that is sold by the bookstore or the Huddle. 
Roberts plans to take his case to the hall council meeting tomor­row night to see if the hall will support him in an appeal of the rejection to Fr. John Wolvlear, vice-president for Student Affairs. Roberts believes that Flanner residents will not be satisfied with Reid's decision, and indicated that he expects them to support his appeal. 
-------------------------------------~~--------­





News in brief 
'"Tuesday, March 13, 1979 -page 2 
North and South Yemeni warflares again 
... Begin 

KUWAIT (~P) -Conservative North Yemen yesterday [continued from page 1) set for approval, a vow that which Begin told Carter: "Weaccused Marxist South Yemen of new air attacks on its Begin told the Knesset an caused Carter to blow up in have serious problems." 
border posts desp~te Arab League; demands for a cease-ftre. 
acceptable compromise was ne­frustration, according to offi­After the all-night cabinetA Nonh Y emem broadcast satd South Yemeni planes gotiated on another sticking cials. session Begin said: "I think webombed positions in the area of Harib, a border town almost point: whether the treaty would Carter told the Knesset he made very reasonable deci­1~ miles sout~east of San' a, the North Yemeni capital. The . take precedence over Egypt's had discarded separate draft sions." He said some were byUnued St~res ts sendmg a naval task force led by the carrier defense pacts with other Arab SP,eeches of despair and glad majority vote, others by consen­Constellatton to make a show of force in the area and is states. He gave no details. ndings in favor of "a speech of sus.
speeding up shipment of $400 million north of arms of North Begin had said he expected concern and caution and hope." Meanwhile, Israeli troops shot Yemen. A Kuwait newspaper reported last week that the Vance to fly to Cairo to brief He called on the parties "to and wounded three Arab stu­S~~iet Unio~ was flying 2, 70~ Cuban troops and 300 Soviet Egyptian President Anwar Sa­contemplate the tragedy of dents during a rock-throwingmdatary advisers from Ethiopta to South Yemen. 
dat. The prime minister said he failure, and the legitimate exul­demonstration against Carter's anticipated a "positive ret>ly." tation if we bring peace ... Our peace mission yesterday in the 
Sadat, meanwhile, prayed at a vision must be as great as our West Bank, military officials 
small mosque near the pyra­goals. Wisdom and courage are said. mids yesterday while he await­required of us all." The officials said the army ed the outcome of the tense He held out a promise of will investigate the shootings in 
Former U.S. Marine defector 
Israeli negotiations. increased U.S. aid for Israel, the town of Ramallah. In the Knesset speech, Carter pledging ''new and stronger Palestinian students in at least 
asserted: "We have not yet and more meaningful dimen­seven towns demonstrated

returns from Vietnam 
fully met our challenge." sions" to U.S.-Israeli relations. against Carter's visit on Sun­He said the people of Egypt The emergency cabinet meet­day, but authorities said the and Israel were ready for peace ing that began late Sunday disturbances were "not ser­
but, "The leaders have ltlOt yet night followed a dinner toast in ious."
WASHINGTON (AP)-A U.S. Marine who reportedly defected 
proven that we are also ready
to North Vietnam after serving time as a war prisoner is 
for peace, enough to take a ....--­
coming home to Indiana at his own request in a few days, 
chance. We must persevere."
U.S. officials said yesterday. Pfc. Robert Russell Garwood, 
He added, "We must pro­
33, of Greens burg, lnd., would be the first U.S. serviceman 
ceed with due caution, I under­
released by Vietnam since 566 American prisoners were 
stand that, but we must pro­
returned in 1973. Officials said Garwood defected when his ceed."
captors offered him his freedom in return for enlisting on the 
Pandemonium erupted when
side of the Viet Cong, North Vietnam's guerrilla force. 
Begin tried to talk. 

One right-wing member of Begin's own party has ejected after heckling the prime minis­ter. Carter watched the scene

Tanzanian troops drive 
from the podium. Several members of Begin's 
ruling colaition accused him of u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
selling out. Five Communists charged he was oppressing the Pa]estinians. 
Begin has 'said he would 
toward Ugandan capital 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP)-Tanzanian troops and their Ugandan 
D

subm1t any treaty to the Knes­
rebel allies are f>Ushing north about three miles a day and are 

S.U. RECORD SALE 
nearing the halfway mark in their drive from the border to 
I

the Ugandan capital of Kampala, diplomatic and military sources in Nairobi report. The sources said the invaders 
NDCampaign
were between the cities of Masaka and Lukaya, in southwest 
s 

Uganda, about 70 miles from Kampala and more than 60 
Time 12:00-5:00 
miles north of the Tanzanian border. ''I would not expect the 

to open 
T

Tanzanians to be able to reach Kampala at least for the next five to ten days," said one diplomat. "We must wait to see 
The national phase of the 


ffion-Thuts
the success of Amin's counter-offensive." 
R

"Campaign for Notre Dame," which will bring du~ Univer­
'"t" 
I

sity's $130 million development, 
pro~ram to 112 cities this 
S.U. Ticket Office 
spnng, opened this week. 
B

Thus far, the drive has
Weather 
received fifts and commitments 
Bt(ng your duplicate order form 
totaling 111.6 million, or 85 
u 

W:indy_ and warm today. Chance for late afternoon shower. 
per cent of its e:oal. Htghs m lower 50s. Turning colder and windy at night with a chance of sh?wers or flurries. Lows in middle 20s. Windy 

T 
and colder wnh chance of snow flurries tomorrow. Highs in lower to middle 30s. 
~The Observer_ 
I

Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher 
Asst. Night Editor: Pam 
0

Degnan Copy Reader: ] ohn Mc•Grath Layout Staff: Patsy 
N 

Campbell Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Beth 12:15 pm--MASS, fr. robert griffin, LAFORTUNE 
Huffman, john Smith 


themebJevalJnstJtute
BALLROOM 

TyP,ists: Mardi Nevin, Beth Willard, Pete McFadden, 
3:45 pm--FORUM, "the christian civil magistrate," prof. 
Rosie [We 'II miss you!]!robt. e. rodes, jr., 105 LAW BLDG. 
S€€kS a ~€W CjOOO StuOents
Night Controller: Kattc'! 

Day Editor: ] ohn Ferroli 
6:30 pm--RALLY, meet the candidate -bill richardson, 
Ad Layout: Barbara Pratt, democrat for mayor of south bend, LAFORTUNE THEATRE 
David Wood 

routh€ coll€Cjlatesequence
Photographer: Mark 7,9:15 & 11:30 pm--FILM, "catch-22", ENGR. AUD. 
Ricca· 

Special guest appearance by 
1n m€01evatctvtltzauon
7 P.m--FILMS, "the battered child" & the "aggressive 
Dan "The Man" Letcher chtld," spon. by the social concet;n, CARROLL HALL SMC The Observer [USPS 598 !i20[ is 
contaC1 Ralph mclneRny, 01R€ctoR 
published Monday through Fri1~ay ex­
7:30 pro--MEETING, faculty senate, 202 CCE 
cept during exam and vacation periods. 
anO m1chael p. yRaC€ PRo~essoR
The ~Observer is published by the
7:30 rm--SHOW, the amazing kreskin, spon. by nd suac & 
students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's Colleg!}. Subscriptions may be
socia Gommission, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
0~ ffi€01€Val StUOI€5 
purchased tor $20 per year [$10 per semester[ from The Observer. P.O. box
8 pro--THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE, "the golden 
0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second 
'In VIOO V€Ritas.'

fleece," LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­
283-6604

diana 46556. The Observer is a member of the 
aB€laR0
9 pro--THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE, "the amencan 
Associated Press. All reproduction
dream,'' LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
rights are reserved. 



BANGKOK, Thailand (.AP)­Chinese officials were quoted yesterday as saying their troops would occupy some territory held by the Vietnamese before China's invasion of Vietnam. 
Bangkok analysts confirmed that the Chinese slowly are pulling out of Vietnam. But one highly placed source said Chi­nese officials here told diplo­mats that their forces would occupy some "bases" from which the Vietnamese allegedly staged raids into China. 
Meanwhile, Vietnam, after re­calling some 10,000 troops from Cambodia and units from Laos and southern Vietnam, ap­peared to be reaching the peak of its military build-up in the north. 
In the multi-faceted Indo­china conflict, there also were reports from Vietnam of Chi­nese troops massing on the Chinese-Laotian border. China said the Laotian government had demanded the withdrawal 

In Michigan 

Bar business declines 
by Rob Powers Staff Reporter 

Business has been slow for bars along the Indiana-Michi­gan border since the state of Michigan raised the legal drink­in~ age from 18 to 21. 
'The tavern business is not looking well," commented Bill Kubiak, owner of Kubiak's Bar on Route 31 North. Kubiak said that since the law went into effect in December, he has lost 80% of his weekend customers, most of whom were Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and Indiana residents. Overall, he has lost 60% of his customers. 
"We can hold 250," he said, recalling that on Fridays he would have to turn people away. "Now on Fridays, fifty to a hundred people would be a large crowd." 
Kubiak remarked that his Sunday business is holding, since 85% of the clientele are Indiana couples, 35 years and older, who cannot visit the Indiana bars on Sundays. He noted, however, that if the Indiana law is repealed, his business will suffer even more. 
Bob Taylor, owner of the Heidelburg Inn in Niles, lost 80% of his nightly business since the law went into effect. He has since converted the game room of his bar-restaur­ant into a disco, and will soon introduce a full dinner menu. Like Kubiak, he does not think the law will be repealed in the 1980 referendum. 
While Shula's has also lost much of its business, asistant manager Staci Van Schoiak says its disco is profitable. Minors under 21 who pay a two dollar cover charge are admitted to the dance floor, but their hands are stamped so that they cannot drink at the bar. Van Schoiak noted that while there have been no raids or arrests, the police have occasionally in­spected the nightclub for viola­tiOns. 
"Stamping minors' hands is a touchy situation,'' Bill Kubiak said. He explained that Indiana bars can risk admitting minors since it might only mean a $200 fine. "In Michigan, they might fine you $250-300 per minor and close you for a week.'' 
its invading troops with three new divisions in Cambodia. 
In an effort to put its battered economy on a wartime footing, the Vietnamese also announced yesterday that virtually every of Chinese experts and an end to Chinese aid. 
.And the ambassador of the fallen Cambodian regime of Premier Pol Pot claimed Mon­day that Vietnam has reinforced citizen would be required to perform daily military duties. 
The Chinese announced March 5 that they would with­draw their invasion force of 100,000. But the Vietnamese moves of troop buildup and citizen mobilization probably were triggered, analysts said, by fear of a Chinese "trick" and because heavy Vietnamese casualties made Hanoi feel vulnerable. 
Vietnam's latest battle report said that as of Sunday, Chinese troops continued shelling, plun­dering and burning areas of the 
In December, Kubiak brought back polka bands to keep his older-aged clientele. When Michigan lowered the drinking age to 18 in 1973, he kept the polka bands on week­end evenmgs for several years. "Kids do what they're not expected to," he noted. "Kub­iak's became a popular night spot with Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's  students  as  a  Polish  
dance hall."  
The  barowners  admitted  to  

having made major layoffs since the new law went into effect in December. Kubiak's laid off three of its seven employees. The Heidelburg Inn employed thirteen people before the drinking age was raised; there are now four employees. 
.Another problem tavern own­ers face is the bottly recycling law in Michigan which went into effect last November. Beer bottles in Michigan require a five to ten cent deposit. .As a result, Kubiak said it mar. be cheaper to buy beer reta.tl in Indiana than to buy it wholesale from the distributor in Michi­gan. The distributors, he claims, have passed the cost of the reclamation process on to the retailers. 
.A Michigan distributor who preferred not to be identified said that the package stores were also significantly hurt by the law, with such stores along the state line in the Niles area losting more than 70% of their business. 

six frontier provinces. 
.Analysts here say the fight­ing is light and they cannot confirm Vietnamese charges of Chinese atrocities. 
''I think they (the Chinese) are trying to clean out a belt along the frontier, maybe 20 kilo­meters deep,'' said one western source. , 
Tass, the official Soviet news agency, said yesterday, ''There is no real withdrawal of Chinese troops ... on the contrary, the aggressor's main forces are used for vigorous military ac­tions." 
Yesterday, Vietnam repeated charges by Hanoi, the Soviet Union and Laos that China was massing troops along China's border with Laos. 
It said Peking had trained and sent guerrillas of an army once trained by the U.S. Central Intelligence .Agency (CIA) to carry out subversion in Laos. 
The Communist Party news­pal?er Nhan Dan referred to Chma's use of "bandits" of Vang Pao, the general who led an army of his fellow hill tribesmen in Laos. against com­munist forces in the last war. 
China said Sunday that Laos, under Soviet and Vietnamese pressure, had torn up China­Laotian agreements and de­manded that Peking end its aid projects and withdraw its ex­perts from Laos. 
Program to meet 
.A meeting for sophomores interested in the Irish Studies Program will be held tomorrow night at 6:30 in room 208 O'Shaughnessy. 
Students in the Program spend their junior year in course work at The School of Irish Studies in Dublin, Ireland. 
.Additional information will be presented at the meeting along with comments from former students of the Program. Those interested students unable to attend the meeting should in­quire at 309 O'Shaughnessy. 

ACC tohold banquet 
The Monogram Room of the .ACC will be the sight of this year's hockey banquet as the team gathers to distribute awards and to announce next yc:ar's captains on Saturrlay, March 31. Tickets for Blue Line Club members will be $9 and $11 for non-members and can be attained by calling Blue Line Club President Thelma Hessl­ing at 234-8279. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special Discount for N.D. Students 
259-0335 
Self Lock Storage of McKinley 
"That happy face belongs to my friend Cecil Andrus' daughter Tracy. Lately people say there's something new about her smile. Something I understand better than anyone. When I wasn't much older than Tracy, I beat cancer too." 
Senator Frank Church 

Almost 30 years separate our victodes. Years that brought major advances in the treatment of cancer. When I was fighting for my life, Tracy's chances wouldn't have been good. Then most people with Hodgkin's disease, people like Tracy, died within 5 years. 
But your generosity helped change things. You funded research that devel­oped new treatments. Treatments that saved Tracy's life. Now she's leaving her job as a legislative assistant and going back to our home state of Idaho. Back to school. Back to a life that's much dearer for nearly having lost it. 
Tracy and I aren't unique. Almost 2 million Americans have beaten cancer. But much still remains to be done. Through research, rehabilitation and education, the American Cancer Society is making ! 
your contributions count. 
American Cancer Society . 
\ 

CANCIR 
CANBIBIAT 
Almost 2 million people are living proof your contributions count. 
Thi~ spal'l' t•untributl'll by tht• puhlisht•r as a puhlk >t•rvico•. 

;, 
Tuesday, March 13, 1979 -page 4 
Editorials 
Majority ofthe Withdrawn 
DOOIISBUBY 
The most conspicuous mys­tery of our landscape today is that there appears to be no growing, progressive left. De~­pite widespread social and poll­tical discontent, only a verbally militant right, a weakening liberal center, and a de­moralizing trend toward "self­ishness" are visible. 
But this picture is a mislead­ing version of .today's reality-. campus, American, or other­wise. ·what we are actually seeing is a g~owinS. Party o_f t~e Withdrawn, mcluding wtthm tts ranks people as diverse as the· parietal-rebels of Carroll, the tax-rebels in California, many of the unemployed, minorities, escapists of all kinds, and everyone who feels a desire to say "Let's just go ahead and junk the system.'' 
The growth of this group parallels the ~ecline of_ est.ab­lished authonty and tnstttu• tions. Within government the range of choice and innovation constantly narrows. The sta-· ture of judges, Congress, Administrations, and presidents diminishes, and while we blame particular lead­ers, we also sense a more 
' significant incapacity. The question of what government promises to do is replaced by the spectacle of what ts happen­ing to government as the whole system shrinks and becomes impotent before our eyes, Our politics and economics are in disarray because of a misdirection of effort so pro­found that the harder we work the more impoverished we be­come. Existing jobs fail to make good use of human ener­gy; products and se~ices are not based on essential human needs. As we growpoorer, we can no longer afford social justice. Any number of s~em­ingly unrelated, unexplamed, uncontrolled evils, including inflation, unemployment, crime, J?Ollution, aependency and spintual decay, stem from this smgle cause. Withdrawal is a natural re­sponse to any relationship, personal or societal, that con­sistently fails to meet our needs. We stop listening to the President, we do not vote, we cease believing. Immediate experience becomes the only trust authority. We erase much of the knowledge that comes from secondary sources. With­drawal is farther to the left than any "Party of the Left," within the system. Withdraw! carries a heavy price for the individual and the community. Too often it causes passivity, fantasy, insecurity, tsolation. A shallow and pessi­mistic vision results; but the fashionable phrase "me generation" is a guilty self­accusation that fails to under­stand the difficult yet necessary process of t~rning from l?st outside authonty to the creation of an independent authority within the individual, based on self-knowledge. 
Concern with the personal, which is so much a part of the 1970s, has a greater purpose than narcissism. We are re­quired to become our own teachers, and there is no way to learn except by 'experiments , risks, mistakes, pain, and a determined willingness to try. Personal growth, therapy, physical health, running, crea­tive relationships, the arts, when pursued by one's own choice, may all be passageways to self-guidance, self-discip­line, self-government. 
But a time Is reached when it is no longer appropriate for the withdrawn to see themselves as outsiders. A tremor is felt; the withdrawn have become the majority. Responsibility for the future has passed back to us--the students, the people. We must renew from the out­side a system that cannot renew itself. What began as with­drawal now becomes a larger citizenship. 
From their own centc:rs1 peo­ple may assert new pnormes. Ifother people awee, a political force is formea, as has hap­pened with blacks, homo­
sexuals and women. If 
the cause prevails, it can do so 
only by reshaping the economy 
and the nation. Feminism, for 
example, asks higher economic 
priorities for personal forms of 
training--what was once de­
valued as (the mention of it 
leaves a bad taste in my mouth) 
"women's work." Feminism 
also asks an end to discrimina­
tion against persons because 
they are female. If personal 
learning were raised in value, 
our economy, our lives, would 
be fundamentally changed. If 
equal rights became a fact, 
national decision making would 
be equally shared by women in 
every area. Four or five women 
might even be members of the 
Supreme Court; or a woman 
may evenbecomeNotre Dame's 
President. 

As claims are made by many 
~roups, they inevitably come 
mto conflict, and we experience 
the confusion of a society 
shaken by competing demands, 
but these conflicts have been 
invisibly present all along. Our 
lives have become paralyzed 
and stalemated because con­
flicts, instead of being con­
fronted, are hidden, denied, 
and allowed to continue at the 
enormous cost of inaction. 
We deplore injustice but fail 
to give up the benefits of an 
unjust system. We need to 
understand that so-called ob­
stinate social problems rest 
UJ?On unresolved conflicts. 
Rtsing conflict is therefore to be 
welcomed, not feared. It is a 
sign of the revitalization of the 
democratic process--a return of 
health in our nation, in our 
lives. 

What may be learned in the 
process of conflict is that there 
are new possibilities for com­
munity as well. Every branch 
of the human rights movement 
agrees on autonomy and the upward revaluing ofhuman life. life. Perhaps we will discover that democracy can function far more effectively with the res­ponsible participation of a fully autonomous people. 
In the major events of this decade--the cycle of decline, withdrawal, and autonomy---we may see, along with th(: bad news, an opportunity and a challenge for us as individuals and as society to resume the task of freedom. 
Tim Tedrick 
Apology 

Last Friday a letter appeared on the editorial page entitled ''Ginsberg Performance Found Shocking.'' The authors of the letter stated "It is a disgrace that a man as degenerate as Allen Ginsberg was honored at the literary festival." This statement should not have been printed because of its im]plica­tions about Mr. Ginsberg's character. The appearance of the statement was an editing error. The Observer apologizes for this error. 
WGe'fe«~­
NUT TOO 51/RPR/S/NGLY, 711~ FOR.LJJNCH 
YOU fl?&& 

51R41N ~HIS PtJSI7lQV IS 70fJA~ !Jt'G/NNINS 70 51-W. H~ PHREIJ? 
KEel'S cAfLJNG M~ t/P 70 ASK IF IJE'V~ /.EARNl3i?
I 
aJR. LESsav. 
' 

Is ND a Catholic University? 
The question, "Is Notre Dame a Catholic university?'' has been asked often in the past and will be asked in the future. To answer it, I think a distinction must be made. In one sense, the University here is just the administration and its official policies. It has a President and a Board of Trustees who look to the financial and prestigious aspects of being a '' go?d University." In the other sense, the Universtty is the workers, students, and faculty who study and work here. It is their interrelating that is the heart and soul of the University community, and 
I  cannot  emphasize  the  word  community  
enough.  
The  official  actions  of  the  University  fall  

under sense #1. Consequently they are most concerned with finance and r.restige. Now I ask, in what way does that identify with a Catholic or Christian viewpoint? The answer is, very little if any at all. In fact, in some cases the official policy is repugnant to a Christia_n po~nt of vie'Y. Just look at the wages the Umverstty pays tts unskilled workers. Just ask yourself when was the last time that an administrative decision was made that you could call "ethically based" in any sense? The debate over parietals shied away from the use of any ethical terms. The right to make one's own decisions was never really dealt with by the administration. The arguments against the unionizing of campus workers stayed clear of any use of the word 
"justice." . 

For me and for a majority of the community here this avoidance of any "ethically based" decision-making has been a source of profound disappointment. Yes, it is fine for faculty and students to grapple with ethical issues, but the University (in sense #1) is for administrating and it cannot be concerned with such things. It has to keep the place going financially, and that means it has to function and think as a business. 
That attitude could not be more disheartening to me. I came here hoping that social concerns and justice would be not only part of the University community but part of University policy as well. But such is not the case at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, it seems, is not any different from any other school. There is no more reason to choose to come here than to go to a public university --at least there they make no claims to holding to ideals above the realm of pure finance and concern for prestige. At least there they are honest. 
This does not mean that the University community will remain forever disappointed, but it does call for a new way of looking at things. If we consider ourselves to be the University in the most important sense, then that should be our attitude. Let the admini­stration side hinder and finagle and be wishy-washy concerning the issues we know to be important. We can look and go beyond such pettiness to showing real concern for social JUStice issues. I cannot personally identify with the University whose official policies include paying minimal wages to its workers, keeping secret its investment holdings, refusing to take public stands concerning social justice issues, and dealing in roundabout ways with those concerned with such policies. 
I think there is much I can identify with here at Notre Dame, and all of it is found in the workers, students, and faculty. Therein lies the University community. I will act and work for thai: sense ofUniversity. Itis the only way to get beyond the profound disappointment I feel just 
knowing  what  ''University''  means  from  the  
administrative point of view.  And it is the only  
way to get things done.  
Anne B. Huber  

of either Institution. The news is ·EDITORIAL BOARD
_The Observer_ reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............ Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bn'en Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor ......... Chris Stewart 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb LAnghenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian The Observer is an independent newspa-letters are the views of Lheir authors. Editorial Editor ....... Rosemary Mills per published by students of t~e Colwnn space is available ro all mem-Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Cackle;y Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Samt bers of the community, and the free Saint Mary's Edito, . . . . . . PJ/en Budtiy Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam-News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy 
-r~e~fl:e~c~t~th~e~p~ol~ic~i~es~o~f~th~e~a~dmi~·n~·;·s~tr~a~ti~o;;n-~p;.;u;;;s~,_;;thr~oilujig·h~lliellttlier;.;sl.'.ii;.s·e·n-co~u;;;r.;a;llg.._edi;·;.·-••N....ew..;.s.;E~d;;.it..o1r1•.•· •.•.•· •· •. ············l\1i•k•e•Le•wz•s.----------------•.···:·~ 

The Observer Tuesday, March 13, 1979 -page 5 
----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
10,000 Iranian women march 
Protests enter fourth day 

TEHRAN, Iran (AP)-About 10,000 chanting Iranian wo­men, guarded by armed Marx­ist People's Fedayeen militia­men, marched in Tehran yes­terday in the fourth day of protest against loss of freedoms under Iran's new Islamic rulers. 
Marches also were reported in Abadan, in Iran's southern oil re~ion, and in the northwest­ern clty of Tabriz. 
In an apparent effort to defuse the protest, a deputY. prime minster said women civil servants would not be required to wear traditional dress, and Dariush Forouhar, minister of labor and social welfare, said women factory workers would continue to enjoy equal rights and ''to be able to be elected to office." 
Moslem zealots, who at­tacked several women in a Friday protest in Tehran, stayed behind cordons strung by men accompanying the marchers. The zealots, some wearing the traditional head-to­ankle black ''chador,'' carried posters of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khoemini and shouted ''prosti­tutes" and "naked women" at the marchers. 
Several chador-clad women passed out handbills condemn­mg the marchers' Western­style dress and their wish to compete with men. 
The protesters, wearing blue jeans and skirts, carriea pla­cards that said, "We want equal rights" and "Freedom, Freedom," and chanted: "At the dawn of freedom, we have no freedom.'' 
Several dozen women were re.Ported to have broken a car's wmdows near the offices of Iran's national radio and televi­sion. Witnesses said one women fired a pistol and ner­vous guards fired their weapons in the air to disperse the women. No injuries were reported. 
The women reportedly were members of a Womens Libera­tion Committee that went to compla,in that the national me­dia was not doing stories about their protests in the capital. 
The march was not as large as expected. There was specula­tion the protest had been defused by Deputy Prime Min­ister Abbas Amrr Entezam's announcement that women civil servants would not be required to wear traditional dress to 
Accounting fraternity elects officers 
The Beta Sigma Chapter of Beta Alph Ps1, the national accounting honorary fraternity, has elected new officers for the academic year 1979-80. 
Mary Ellen Pearce, a junior from Merrilville, Ind. will serve as President along with Vice President Greg Sebasky, a junior from Enon, Ohio; treas-· urer Janine Wagner, a junior from Berwyn, Illinois; and secretaries Bob Fulton of Pittsburgh, Pa. and Michon Althoff of Northbrook, Ill. 
Buy Classifieds from 
The Observer 

work, but should "dress with dignity and avoid appearing cheap or exposed m their offices.'' 
Khomeini, the white-bearded leader of the revolution that toppled Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's government Feb. 12, has strongly urged women to wear the traditional "chador" in public. The 78-year-old Moslem leader also abolished co-education and scrapped a law that allowed women to bring and challenge divorce. Men now are free to have more than one wife and concubines. 
The demonstrators ~athered at Tehran University and marched on tree-lined Liberty Avenue to a monument built by the Shah, who now is exiled in Morocco. 
American feminist and au­thor Kate Millett, who has called Khomeini a "male chau­vinist'' walked with the demon­strators. 
Young men opposed to the women's movement stoned the buses that carried the protest­ers from the monument back to the center of the city. No injuries were reported. 
The women have demanded the ayatollah take back his decrees and provide for equal rights in the new government. 

16500 State Road 23 • Phone 272-4186 

fiiiiJ..·!.· 
WELCOMES EVERYONE TO OUR ~~'\\\~\~%~ ~ 
Prices good till March 18 

. 
Com plete Selection mty to be a part of the South Bend community, home of 
•  •  the FIGHTING IRISH!  Best Regards,  
~--~of Sheet MusiC &Music Books  . STEVE ROOK, Mgr.  
Collector's Items  
Check-out our selection  
Colored  
Vinyl Albums  
BARGAIN.  1  andPicture Discs many to choose from  

, M "S W .. Beatles, Beach Boys, Fleetwood Mac, Eagles,
HUNTER eco tar ars . Elton john,. Bob Seger, Rolling Stones, Peter 1 Sel · f America ·"Harbor" 1 Frampton, Linda Ronstadt and Wings.Co~pdete Al~cttono Firefall "Luna Sea"~ Vinyl albums $5.99 • Picture Discs $9.99 
U get urns Jethro Tull "Heavy Horses" $2.99 ea. limited quantities 
BLANK RECORDING 'D\PE 11FADQUARTERS 
&TDK. 
SA-Super Avilyn 
ELECTRONICS CORP. 90 min. blank cassette.$4.49ea. 
OPENING 
Wednesday March 14th, 10a.m. Dear Customers. 
I take great pride in introducing to you the Music Industry's "Retailer Of The Year," Camelot Music. We are acomplete record and tape store, staffed with knmyledgeable sales people to assist you in any of your mus1cal preferences. I invite you to join in our Grand O.Pening Celebration and Thank You for the opportu­
, -·M-­
CLUB 
I! 
musit 
lovers already 

-


The Observer Tuesday, March 13, 1979 -page 6 
Parnell to show films on Taiwan 

by Mizureen Hert~ly StaffReporter 
At 7 tomorrow ni_ght, Dr. Charles E. Parnell, dtrector of Foreign Study Programs, will show two films on Taiwan to students who wished to partici­pate in or have already partici­pated in the Notre Dame Program in the Republic of China (ND-ROC). 

One film will give a general overview of Taiwan while the other will concentrate on the Palace Museum, famous for its collection of Chit'l.ese art. 
Notre Dame recently modi­fied its ND-ROC program and will reinstitute it in the 1979· 1980 school year. The program was ftrst offered in 1975. This year, however, a lack of student participation forced the univer­sity to cancel the proftram. 

Students who Join the program will study in the College of Liberal Arts of National Taiwan University (NTU), Taipei, Taiwan. The 


I 
I 

I RIVER CITY 
I I RECORDS I 
I South Bend's Largest Record I I and Tape Selection I 
I I I 
I 

$1.00 OFF 
coupon I 
I 

$1.00 off any album or tape with this coupon. Limit 1. Now thru April 11. Not good on cut-outs, imports or other sale items. Coupon musr be presented before purchase is rung into cash register. ' 
I . 

I.._ ··_·; ._•ND-.SMC check accepted for up to $20.00 over 
i.-· . -·~.,.purchase amount. 
I. ' , en,000 albums and tapes in stock now! . . .why wair ro cboose from a small selection?
1;;~>,·:. _. · River Ciry Records probably has it in stock ~''''~-~ now. · 
' 

I River City .Records 1 l3 miles north ofcampus. Open 10 to 10, I l7davs a week 277-4242 ...a 
~--------------­
--1 
I I I I 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 
~ 

Wed. March28 7:30PM Notre Dame 
and special guest 
SammyHagar 
Festival Seating $8.50 

Reserved. Seats $8.50 $7.50 
~c 
ACC Box Office and all ~.­
~ usual ~i_cket Outlets __/ -~~ 
cost ·of participating in the ND-ROC ts about the same as the average cost of tuition plus room and board on campus. The University l?ays for round­trip transportatton from New York to Taiwan, as well as various field trips during the year in and around Taiwan. 
This year Notre Dame and Penn State will jointly sponsor the Taiwan program. Students from both schools who elect to study in the program will share instructors, classes, and a program director. Together the two schools can send more students to Taiwan and add more professors and courses to NO-ROC's curriculum. 
ND-ROC students will follow the semester system of Penn State, completing semesters in ten weeks. Students will ac­quire 24 semester hours during the school year. 
Students planning to study in Taiwan were previously re­quired to have a two-year knowledge of Mandarin Chin­ese before joining the program. Now the program offers a seven-week intensive study of Mandarin Chinese at the Chinese Language Institute of Fu-Jen in Hsin-Chu, Taiwan. This course fulfills the language requirement. Students will also receive -six credit hours for the course which makes a total of 30 for the school year. 
Students begin language study July 1. Studies at NTU will commence in September and continue through March of the following year. 
Parnell hopes that the changes in ND-ROC will en­courage more students to .r,arti­cipate in the program. 'The recent political developments between China and the U.S. make Taiwan the best place to be," he stated. 
Parnell remarked that Fr. Hesburgh had expressed dis­appointment in Notre Dame's failure to sponsor ND-ROC this year. "He told me that it was a shame that Notre Dame could not teach Chinese language and culture when that area concerns a quarter of the world's popula­tion." 
Sophomores and juniors can still join the program. Any interested students should con­tact Parnell in Room 346 of 0'Shaughnessy. 
... Kreskin 

[continued from page 1) Commissioner ] ohn Kuluz noted that the student reaction to Kreskin last year was, "fan­tastic.'' Kuluz recommends that students come early be­cause last year Kreskin drew over 1200 people. "And that was when we were charging admission,'' Kuluz recalled. O'Lau~hlin holds 1400 people and admtssion is free. 
ARmANDO'S 
BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP 1437 N .Ironwood Dr. South Bend 277-0615 
Sue, Ruthie, Kim 
Armando-stylist 

mon-fri 8-5:30 sat 8-2 by appt. only sat-no appt. needed 



The Observer -Sports Tuesday, March 13, 1979 -page 7 
• • .Trivia results 
[continued from page 8) 

THE SPORTS TRIVIA COLUMN was tackled with enthusiasm by many of the campus' devotees. A group of Holy Cross residents, bob Elliott, Many Scanlon, and Andy DeFusco, managed to arrive at 11 correct responses. Jeff "Vinyl" Jeffers of WNDU­Tv, with some assistance from his cronies at the station, was correct on 10 of 13. 
How did you fare? 

l)Bobby Bonds hit a home run with the bases loaded in his first major league game. 
2)Jim Bertelsen played for the national championship Texas Longhorns in 1969 and spent his entire professional career with the Los Angeles Rams. 
3)Gilles Villemure, when not 
in the nets, rode a sulky on the New York harness racmg cir­cuit. 4)Mike Jorgenson was born August 13, 1948, the same day that George Herman Ruth fell victim to cancer. 5)The Pacers are the only club to win three ABA titles. They were led by Roger Brown, blackballed by the NBA for his alleged involvement in a point­shaving scandal. 6)Darrin Nelson was over­shadowed by Steve Dils at Stanford despite catching 50 passes and gallopimg for 1,000 yards the last two seasons. 7)] ohnny Kucks hurled a three-hitter to give the Yankees their seventeenth world champ­ionship in 1956. 8)Denny McLain struck out ~even straight batters at the 
start of a relief appearance. 
9)Fiorida has never won a SEC football championship des­pite Steve Spurrier's heroic in 1966, a season marred on~y by a loss to undefeated Alabama. 
lO)Manny Ycaza, known as a daredevil during his riding days, suffered a spill in 1969 that virtually ended her career . 
11)Ted Lyons twirled for the White Sox for twenty-three years and won 260 contests on , his way to Cooperstown. 
12)Doug Sanders,, of whom it was said he could swing a golf club in a telephone booth, lost the 1970 Bntish Open in a play-off to ) ack Nicklaus at St. Andrews. 
13)Dolf Camilli was the Dodger first sacker whose brother was killed in the ring by Max Baer. 
... Tennis 

[continued from page 8) 
five singles. 
The Irish only won one doubles match, as Hoyer and Harris defeated Ballingale and Schubert, 6-3, 6-2, in number one doubles. 
Last week the Irish lost to Ohio State, 8-1, as Herb Hopwood pulled in the only win for the Irish. 
The tennis team leaves Fri­day for its spring trip to California, facing several strong West Coast teams, including USC, San Diego State, and Texas Tech. 

Tuesday, March 13, 1979 -page 8 
Bzl/ Hanzlik, Btl! Laimbeer and Kelly Tnpucka led the In'sh in the second round of the Mideast Regional against Tennessee on Sunday. The tn'o scored 16, 12, and 21 points, respectively. [Photos by Doug Chn'stian and Mark Muench] 
Available at the ACC 
NCAAticket sales continue today 
Provided that they did not issued on a first come, first finals, to be held at the Special. sell out yesterday, tickets for served basis, and each student Events Center in Salt Lake City, the Midwest Regional of the is limited to 1 (one) ticket. Each Utah on March 24 and 26. NCAA basketball tournament Notre Dame and St. Mary's Applications for these tickets will be available at the second student must present his or her will be available at the second floor ticket windows of the own ID to purchase a ticket. floor ticket windows of the ACC Athletic and Convocation These games will be played at from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. today and Center today from 9 a.m. to 12 the Market Square Arena in from 9 a.m. to 12 noon on noon. Price for these tickets is Indianpolis, IN. Wednesday. The same rules $18, and includes both the apply for these tickets, and they semifinals games on Friday IfNotre Dame makes it to the will be issued on a conditional night and the finals on Sunday final four, Students will also be basis (provided Notre Dame afternoon. Tickets will be able to get tickets for the NCAA makes the finals). Price for 
these tickets is $30, which 
includes· both the semi-finals 
and finals. Tickets can be
Irish women swimmers picked up at the Notre Dame 
Ticket Headquarters at the 
Hotel Utah Motor Inn in Salt 
Lake City on March 23 and 24. 
If Notre Dame does not make 
the finals, checks can be picked 
by Michael Ortman ing Championships in Reno, up at the Notre Dame Ticket 
Sports Wn'ter Nev. Office after break. 
excel at championships 
Tough luck befalls Irish at Indoor Track Finals 
by Mark Perry that would have led to retalia­
Assistant Sports Edz'tor tion by the UTEP runner." 
This was one of the issues 
Notre Dame's two-mile relay brought up by UTEP after their team went to the NCAA Indoor disqualification. The results of Track Championships la~t the race were important to weekend at Cobo Arena to UTEP, since they were fighting Detroit with high hopes of a for the team championship. solid performance. They knew But the decision held up, and they had a chance to place high, the Miners lost the champion­and with a strong effort from all ship by a single point. four runners and a little luck For the Irish it was a frustra­they could win it all. ting day, but Piane thought the 
But luck was not with Tim boys took the results in stride. McCauley, Pete Burger, Chuck "lfwe weren't fouled, we knew Aragon and Jay Miranda on we had a chance to be national Saturday, as a mishap in the champs, but the boys really finals prevented the Irish from handled themselves well after putting forth their best effort, the race," the Irish coach and also had a great effect on commented. ''I was the one the final team standings. running around like a madman 
"We were right where we complaming to the officials. I wanted to be after our first two thought they represented Notre legs (McCauley and Burger), Dame very well." satd Irish coach Joe Piane. "One of our goals for the "Chuck (Aragon) was running indoor season was to get four well and shooting for the lead. All-Americans," he added. He was on the inside lane, so he ''We accomplished that on is allowed to defend his posi-Saturday." Because of their tion, and there was some fifth place finish, all four Irish shoving going on. But then the runners will be on the All-­runner from UTEP (University American team. of Texas at El Paso) pushed The Irish will have no chance Chuck from behind.'' to avenge their defeat in the 
'Aragon fell down on the outdoor season, since there is 
track, and the Irish never no two-mile relay at the NCAA 
recovered, as they finished Outdoor ChampiOnships. But 
sixth in the race. Piane said he thought that all 
But because of the actions of four runners had a good chance 
the UTEP runner, their relay to qualify in single events, 
team was disqualified after ''and they have some incentive 
placing second, and the Irish to come back next year and get 
moved up into fifth place in the another shot at UTEP." 
final standings. The distance medley relay 
"It was a flagrant foul," team J?erformed well in Detroit, Piane said. "They have offi-but J 1m Slattery, Ken Lynch, cials all over the track, so there· Tony Hatherly, and Steve was no way that Aragon could Welch were unalbe to make the have gotten away with anything finals. 

Sophomore diver Betsy Shadley and freshman free­stylist J eaninie Blatt turned in impressive performances this past weekend, while competing in the 1979 Small Colle~e Women's Swimming and Dtv-
Tennis team evens record with win 
The Notre Dame tennis team evened their indoor season record at 1-1 with a convincing win over Ball State, 6-3, at a meet held Saturday in Muncie, IN. 
Although the Irish won five of six singles matches, most of the matches went to three sets before deciding a winner. 
. Only Mark Trueblood, play­mg a number four singles, took both sets, 6-2, 6-4, over John Wood. 
In the number one singles 
spot,  Mark Hoyer  won  a  tie­ 
breaker  to  defeat  Dave  
Ballingale 5-7, 7-5, 7-6.  

Carleton Harris rallied to take the last two sets, takin& a 
2-6, 6-4, 6-2 win over Steve Rothstein in the number two singles match. 
Also winning for th'-Irish were number three singles man Herb Hopwood, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2, .)ver Rusty Schubert; and Tom Hartzell won the last two sets convincingly to down Jeff Smarr, 5-7, 6-1, 6-2, in number 
[continued on page 7] 
Shadley, a two-year veteran of the Irish swim team and the team's first female ever, finish­ed 12th out of a field of 59 contestants in the 1-meter div­ing. She tallied 338.60 points in 11 dives. 
But Shadley was not as fortunate in the 3-meter dives. Her second dive was to be a backward dive with one-half flip. After an excellent take-off, Sahdley grazed the board, ruin­ing the dive and her overall score. 
"I would sure like to have had that dive over again,'' wished the native of Cincinati, OH. "It sure was a disappoint­ment.'' 
Blatt competed in three dif­ferent freestyle events covering a wide variety of distances. In the 200-yard free, she clocked a time of 2:01.36, good enough for. 21st place in a field of 51 swtmmers. 
Blatt, who had been swim­ming in the 1,000-yard freestyle during the varsity's regular season, was more impressive in the 500-yard free. Her time of 
5: 17.86 earned her 13th place in a field of 40. 
In her final event of the four-day-long meet, the gruel­ing 1,6)0;yard free, Blatt post­ed a time of 18: 51.89 placing the 17th in the field of 24. 
The swimming season is now over for everyone. The team is current'ly awaiting the announcement of the mono­gram winners for the 1978-79 season. Shadley stands an excellent chance of becoming the first female to ever win a coveted swimming monogram. 
Trivia results on page 7 
Steve Cauthen handles thepressure 
With the possible exception of the fight game, no sport has had its reputation sullied more than horse racing. The factors contributing to the besmirching of the "Sport of Kings" are 
Mike

infinite; they include the rigging of races by 
jockeys to create exorbitant exacta and trifecta 
pay-offs; unscrupulous trainers who administer 
Henry 
pain-killing drugs that can jeopardize an 

animal's life, since he will have no clue to when racing mogul Robe~t Sangst_er Competitio!'l I_D a tendon may be ready to bow or a sesamoid the United States IS more mtense than It IScrack; and, year-round racing at many northern overseas. Year-round racing can be monoto­circuits that forces trainers to cater thouroug-h­nous.
breds far often, in uncompromismg
too and Finally, and crucially· for Cauthen, he hasconditions. 
become caught up in the vicious circle of theEven the most dedicated touts and handicap­New York racing establishment. Forced to signpers like to overlook the seamier aspect of the with crusty agent Lenny Goodman, a ftxture onsport, though, preferring to focus their attention the backstretch, the beleaguered man-child on the three year-old classics: the Kentucky began receiving fewer good mounts as GoodmanDerby, the Preakness, and the Belmont Stakes. 
began to take the gravy train for granted. TheA horse who is able to claim three victories in breaking point may have come when, in thethis .. grueling five-week period deserves the midst of his dreadful slum{>, he desperatelyacclaim and ever-lasting affection that goes with changed agents twice in a vam attempt to alterbeing a member of that most exclusive the precise chemical balance that had broughtfraternity: Triple Crown champions. Affirmed, him so much success.
the equine darling of 1978, was only the eleventh Too often tremendous burdens are heapedto string together the hallowed trio. ' upon young athletes who are not willing to meet It would seem that the rider aboard this bold these demands. Larry Bird' s unwillingness to steed would have brought the racing world to its talk to members of the fourth estate reflects nil 
knees. Endorsements, fame, popularity, and 
on his abilitv on the hardwood. Duane Thomas immortality perched on his doorstep. For Steve was hardly' an anti-establishmentariast; . more 
Cauthen, the tender 17-vear-old from Walton, simply, a confused young man who was probably Kentucky, (just a few furlongs from Churchill more surprised with his gridiron exploits thanDowns) the combination of daring gamesman­any journalist was. Steve Cauthen is 17 yearsship, skill, and the upraised whip following the old and a pan-rime senior in high school. Withthrilling victory over Alydar in the Belmont uncanny perception, he realizes that he mustStakes heralded the arrival of another instant escape from the trap that can ensnare the bestlegend. Coupled with his ''Sportsman of the and most experienced jocks. His trip willYear" designation in 1977, people began to provide a unique potpourri of experience,wonder if this wunderkind had surpassed worldliness, and good times for a most cong;enialShoemaker in overall riding acument. 
young man. His return to the states w1ll beWhy, then, after an almost spirit-crushing marked by fanfare, brass bugles and the cry of110-race drought on the West Coast, is Stevie ''Riders up!'' as Stevie Wonder will return to hisembarking on a sabbatical to London just to ride rightful place among the elite of his profession.
the ponies? The answer. lies deeper than the 
[continued on page 7]

lucrative contract Cauthen has inked with British 






