-
The 70's -page
' I
' ' 

VOL. XIV, NO. 62 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1979 
Iranian crisis deepens 

Council reacts to trial threat 

said it could be assumed "I -don't mean cooperation just ... in routine matters.'' 
The warning of an upcoming trial of the hostages as "spies" came from Iran's acting foreign minister, Sadegh Ghorbzadeh. 
Iranian revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini had said previously that the hostages would be tried as spies if the United States does not return the exiled Shah Mohhammad Reza Pahlavi for trial. But Ghotbzadeh was quoted by Iranian state televi­sion yesterday as saying "the hostages will be tried for sure. '' 
Whether the hostages will be punished according to the ver­dict -they could be sentenced to death -would depend on Iran's leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who could overrule the sentence "if the United States extradites the shah," Ghotbzadeh reportedly said. 
The Iranian account of the interview with the French newspaper Le Figaro differed slightly from the version pub­lished by Le Figaro. In that, Ghotbzadeh says such halfway measures as an international investigation of ousted Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's reg~me would not settle the 
Cf!SlS. 
''Thus the hostages will be tried?" he was asked. 
"Yes." 
It was evident from the minister's remarks as reported by Iranian television, which closely follows the official line, that Ghotbzadeh meant the hostages would be tried in any event. 
Previously, Iran threatented 
[continued on page 8] 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -The month-old U.S. Embassy crisis turned grimmer yesterday as Iran's foreign minister declared the American hostages would be put on trial and their Moslem militant captors were reported to have threatened to execute them if they did not ''cooperate. '' 
At the emergency U.N. Se­curity Council session in New York, members finally agreed on an urgent resolution calling on Iran to release the 50 hostages and urging both the United States and Iran to ''exercise the utmost re­straint.'' 
Pentagon officials said, meanwhile, that a six-ship Navy force led by the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk has reached the Arabian Sea area, joining another U.S. carrier force. This put the ships, carrying more tha 135 planes, within reach of the entrance of the Persian Gulf. 
President Carter has warned Iran of "extremely grave" con­sequences if the hostages are harmed, and U.S. officials say a trial of the diplomats would be an even more grievous violation of international law than the hostage seizure itself. 
The report of threats to shoot hostages came from a White House official in Washington. 
The official, who asked not to be identified, said the hostages ''have been threatened with execution if they fail to cooper-· ate with their captors." He 

llirm fire raises doubts, questio,ns of safety 
by Mary Kay Ley don StaffReporter 
The response of Saint Mary's Security and students to a fire Friday evening in Holy Cross Hall has raised questions about the efficiency of the College's emergency procedures. 
The fire began at 5:15 p.m. on the fourth floor of the dorm, according to Susan Tamborini, the hall director. Kim Kearney the only resident of the room at the time. tried to extinguish the fire while other students report­ed the blaze to Chris Morris, who was on duty at the hall's front desk. 
Morris called Saint Mary's Security, while Joan McCarthy pulled the fire alarm, alerting the Notre Dame Fire Depart­ment. Security called the South Bend Fire Department at 5:21. 
The city responded with four emergency vehicks. Notre Dame sent one truck. The vehicles arrived at 5:35. 
Estelle Geyer, president of the hall and a resident of the room, said the fire started in a wicker waste paper basket, "probably as a result of a cigarer b~~t thrown into the trash can. 
A woman in the section complained that Security arriv­ed at Holy Cross "fifteen to twenty minutes after having been notified." They proceed­ed up the elevator to the fire, which Kearney had extinguish­ed. 
Security said in their report that their attempt to clear the dorm of the residents was 'Slow due to the lack of co-operation hy the students. 
Most students responded to the alarm in a "manner con­trary to safe fire procedure,'' a resident commented. ''A girl with a hearing problem was asleep, and no one hothered to check and make sure that she had gotten out,'' another stu­dent complained. 
According to the report made by security, "most · residents thought it (the alarm) was a joke and refused to leave the building." Some students even gathered around the open door and watched the fire be extin­guished, the report said. 
Security reported the cause of the fire to be a "lit cigar­ette.' ' Damage was minimal and required only scraping and painting. The report lists damages as scorching of the wall, ceiling and floor; smoke damage, and damage caused by powder from the fire extin­guisher used. 
Anthony Kovatch, director of security, had no comment. 
Buckminster Fuller spoke yesterday at the Library. See story below. [photo by Mike Bzgley] 
Fuller speaks to crowd on thought, human existence 
by Tim Sullivan StaffReporter 
Urging a receptive crowd of about 250 to use "comprehen­sive thinking,'' Buckminster Fuller, noted visionary thinker 



Carlerannouncescandidacy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter, form­ally launching his fight for another term in the White House, said yesterday night the crisis with Iran that delayed his campaign plans ''may not be resolved easily or quickly.'' 
In a five-minute paid political broadcast on CBS television, Carter said the fate of 50 American hostages in Tehran could hang in the balance so long that "our patience and sense of uni~y may waver as frustration builds up among us. 
The broadcast followed a muted declaration of candidacy that Carter made yesterday afternoon in the East Room of the White House. 
Saying then that his stewardship of the nation's affairs has resulted in scars, which he carries ··with pride,'' Carter spoke of ''a somber time'' when hostages held by "a mob and a gover~~enr that have become one and the same. 
In the broadcast. Carter referred to his postponement of campaign plans and said, ''While the crisis continues, I must be present to define and to lead our response to an ever-changing situation of the greatest sensitivi­ty and importance." 
White House press secretary Jody Powell said the television appearance was keyed to 2,800 Carter fund-raisers. many held in private homes around the country. Had there not been this connection, he said, the broadcast would have been canceled. 
At the brief East Room ceremony eariier yesterday, Carter said he ''would have preferred to postpone this announcement until another time." But he said election laws in some states forced him to act now. 
"Therefore," he said, "I declare that I am a candidate for re-election as president ;)f the United States of America." 
Carter also asked fellow Democrats to renomi­nate Walter F. Mondale, "the most effective vice president in American history." 
The president, who spoke for less than ei~ht minutes in the East Room, appeared before relatives, staff aides and a delegation from campaign headquarters. Mondale was with him. The low-key event contrasted sharply with Carter's original plans. 
Before events in Iran intervened, the president had intended to invite prominent supporters from across the nation to the White House and to spend the evening at a fund-raising gala at a Washington hotel. Then he was going to em hark on four days ofcampaigning in six stares from Maine to Texas. 
Although the fund-raiser was on Caner's announced schedule for the day, chief spokes­man J ody Powell said the President would not anend because he "simply felt his presence there would not be appropriate under the circumstances." a reference to the· Iranian 
[continued on page 3} 
and inventor of the geodesic dome, outlined his personal philosophies and impressions of the future last night in the Librat y Auditorium. The 84­year-old professor emphatically concluded his speech saying he placed faith in "today's youth, who are in love with love.'' 
Fuller described himself as an "average, healthy human being" who has "made an experiment of himself'' by attempting to do something "for all of humanity." Seated throughout the initial part of the program, he outlined histor­ically why the struggle for habitable areas has lead to the development of nations and corporations, who are primarily concerned oniy for themselves. 
''No one was doing anything for the total 'spaceship earth,' so I decided to try," Fuller explained. 
Drawing from scientifi._ his­tory and personal experiences, Fuller showed how he tried to decipher the riddle of human existence. "All other organ­isms have special equipment, but humans do not," he ex­plained. "Humans, however, do have minds," which he described as ''a capability to find relationships existing be­tween special cases.'' 
Fuller concluded that man's exisrance must be important, because ''the mind can com pre· hend to some extent the design of the universe, and nothing else can do this." 
Born in 1895, Fuller said, ''I found myself growing into a 
[continued on page 8) 
-
...._ 
)


News in brief 
Wednesday, December 5, 1979-page 2 
has no right to single out Iranians for deportation even though he fears that violence aga!nst the students here could result in harm to U.S. hostages m Tehran. The arguments 

bike storage
before U.S. District Judge Joyce Hens Green were on two suits filed on behalf of Iranian students in the United States who are fighting a presidential order directi~g i~migration officials to deport Iranian students who are tn this country 

begins today
illegally. Bike storage at the football stadium will be today and

Weather 

tomorrow from 1-4 p.m. at gate 
14. Bikes must be registered at Windy with increasing cloudiness Wednesday. Twenty the Lost and Found Office,percent chance for showers Wednesday afternoon. ~ighs in room 121 of the Administration 
the mid to upper 40s. Mostly cloudy Wednesday mght and 
Building, and must also have a Thursday. Lows Wednesday night in the upper 20s to low 
serial number. 30s. Highs Thursday in the upper 30s to low 40s. 
f-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Ann Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Danny Tarullo, Eddie Holden Copy Editor: MaribethOn Campus Today Moran News Editor: Mike ShieldsWednesday, December 5, 1979 Features Layout: K. Connelly, Mark "Never
12:15 pm MASS with fr. griffin LAFOR1UNE BALLROOM Sleeps" Rust Sports Layout: '')ohnny12:15 pm FASTER'S MASS DILLON CHAPEL 
Kegger" Sports Copy Editor: Mike
12:15 pm SEMINAR "the mouse that soared: ?,ring t~e. gf Olenikmouse to brazil for schistosomiasis research, dr. JUltan Typists: Tina Terlaak, Paulapleasants GALVIN AUD. 
Shea, Kathy Murray 1:30 pm MOVIE "mother teresa of calcutta" HOWARD 
EMT: Kim Convey CHAPEL 
Proofreader: John Chaussee ND Day Editor: Keith
3:25 pm COLLOQUIM "new testament models for ~l.co~ol­
Melangaroism,' joseph pursch, dir. of naval alcohol rehabtluatton 
SMC Day Editor: Kathy
services HAGGAR AUD. 

Domanico AdDesign: Mary, Matt, and 3:30 pm LEC1URE "14th century angels and the Bubinstruments they play," de. howard brownll5 CROWLEY 
Photographer: Mike Bigley Guest Appearances: Kathy
4:30 pm LEC1URE strucn1;r~-resonance theory:, from 
''The Redhead'' Casey,
aromatic hydrocarbons to transition metal complexes, prof. 
Santa, Panama the Red Nose william herndon 123 NIEUWLAND 
The Obsemr (USPS • 1211( Is
6:30pm MEETING sailing club 204 O'SHAG 
published Monday through Frillly 11­Cipt during eum lnd vaatllln perilds.7 pm FOOTBALL BANQUET ACC ARENA 
The Observer Is publilllld by 1111 studlnts of Notrl Dlllll * Sllllt Miry's Celllgl. Sulllcrlptila lillY Ill
7, 9, 11 pm FILM "a night at the opera" ENGR. AUD. 
purchnld tor 1211 pll' ,.., 1~11 pll' IIIMIUrl trem The Observer. 0. blx Q, NltfiDimt, lndiiRI .... Secllld ciiU : fllld, ,...,. Dlllll, 111­
7: 30 pm LEC1URE ''knot theory'' prof. connaiy BULLA 
SHED 

diiRI . The Observer 11 1 1111111111r If 1111
8 pm LEC1URE ''fact & value,'' prof. biliary putnam 
Auoclltld Pma. 
All ,.llllctlln
rlgflb .,. I'IMIWd.
GALVIN AUD. 

UA W rejects Senate bill 

Producer bases movie on Chappaquiddick


to freeze wages 
HOLLYWOOD (AP) mobile accident in which a be Stensel's first and one of the 
Promoter Glenn Stensel once 28-year-old campaign worker new kind of Hollywood movies, Grass-roots leaders of United Auto Workers union members 
tried -in vain -to produce a drowned in a car driven by Sen. produced for less than $1. 5 who work for Chrysler Corp. rejected a Senate bill calling for 
movie called "Peanuts" star­Edward M. Kennedy would be million and intended for distri a three· year wage freeze in return for gove~nment aid to the 
ring Billy Carter. Now Stensel ready for distribution next bution to drive-ins and sub­faltering company. "They simply belie~ed It was. too great a 
has started work on what he summer, during the heat of a urban theaters. pri(t' to pay," Douglas ~rase~, unwn pres1dent, . to~d 
says will be an $800,000 presidential campaign that "I've even started produc­''docudrama'' called could involve the Massachu­reporters after a closed meeung With members o~ the umon s tion," reports the actor-turned­''Chappaquiddick.'' setts Democrat.
Chrysler Council, made up of leaders from umon locals at producer. "On Oct. l , I began The story of a 1969 auto-The movie, if completed, willChrysler plants. Fraser said delegates at the meeting 
filming backround shots at "unanimously rejected the notion of a three-year ~reeze." 
Chappaquiddick itself, includ­He said the possibility of a shorter freeze was not d1s~ussed, 
ing the bridge.'' but said the union would consider other concessions to 
''Will the picture be pro-or­
Chrrsler. 

anti-Kennedy? That's up to the
• • . Dissent 
people who see it to decide. I'm not slantin~ it one way or the

Mobil refinery fire 
naturally commanded influ­
[continued from page 3] other. Th1s is not a crackpot 
ence. 'fhey still do, but you've movie. And I'm not going to 
yards myself, but I've talked to elected a great many more state my political views. I'm

rages out ofcontrol 
enough people who have, and I blacks to public offi,e, more not going to be a Jane Fonda.'' 
cannot name you one single blacks are involved in party
:\hour 70 firefighters battled a raging Mobil Oil Cor~. 
person who is deemed able to affairs, and all these are ex­refinery fire following an explosion that left o~. Mobtl 
deliver the black vote anymore. ertin~ a natural independence employee dead and six persons injured, t~o crmcally. 
What I think it is, is the of thmking," Graves said. Deputy Torrance Fire Chief Richard ~prout sa1d firefighters 
emergence of the black middle Russ Marane, the president's 
• • • HEW
planned to inject fire retardant foam ll~to the .bottom of the 
class. And they have become southern coordinator, said he 80.000-barrel-capacity gasoline tank sull burnm~ more than 
sort of like the white vote-so sees among black voters "a 15 hours after it erupted Monday night. Approximately 300 
independent, and split." growing independence from (continued from page 3] people were evacuated from the refinery, nearby fir.ms and 
Charles Graves, executive tradional politics. I've seen 
director of the Georgia Demo­ing !ts money.cannot discrimin­
some evidence of affluenthomes after the initial explosion sent a huge fireballmto the ate m any of tts programs.
cratic Party, said the election of blacks moving to the Repub­air about 6 p.m. Monday. 
The NCAA has filed suitmore blacks to state and party lican party, and some middle­challenging this view and Titleoffices has so expanded black aged, middle income blacks IX. The case is before tue lOthpolitical leadership that indivi­exerting more leadership and
Iranian spokemen criticize 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in dual leaders have experienced exerting political inde­Denver.
some loss of influence. 
pendence. 
Enforcement of Title IX has
''At one time, you had a few

Carter 's tactics 
"It's too early to say where never been vigorous. The
black leaders ... who were first 
they're going to be come Elec­government did not i propose
in places of prominence and
Lawyers for Iranian students argued to<:Jay that President tion Day, but I think when this regulations for the statute untilCarter is harming innocent people by h1s order to deport leadership sits down and looks July 1975. It then gave colleges Iranian scudents who are in the United States illegally. One at alternatives, they' II still be and universities three years to 
behind the president,''attorney, Eric M. Lieberman, told a federal judge th_at Carter comply with them.

Winter 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP repair any kind of leather goods, also zippers , shoe repairing, polishing, Orthopedic Specialist, quick service, reasonable price Notre Dame Campus 283-1144 
Open 8to 5 Mon.-Fri. and 8to 1 Sat. 
The Station that Rocks you AM from the Tower TONITE PRESENTS 
The Soul Hour from 9-ll Featuring the best in Jazz, Soul, Rythm and Blues And Sportsline, where you the.listener can call in. 
All From Notre Dame's Stud~nt Ro~k, AM 64, 

TheJ\T 
1 ~azz presents ... 
· Fri. Dec. 7 : LaFortune Lunchtime Concert with Rich Prezioso 11:45-1 p.m. 
and that evening , . . Mike Daly 9-10:30 p.m. Rich Prezioso and Friends 10:30-? 
Sat. Dec. 8 : Deck the Halls with ... 
THE THIJW ANNUAL CHRISTMAS NAZZ 9-? 
free admission sponsored by NDSU 
----------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1979 -page 3 
Inflation, dissent 



Carter's black vote 
ATLANTA (AP)-] immy Carter's spectacular political star seemed suddenly dim that spring of 1976 as blacks· re­coiled from his use of the term ''ethnic purity'' in a statement on open housmg 
But when the aging bull of the movement-the Reverend Martin Luther King Sr.-em­braced Carter on a platform in downtown Atlanta, much of the shock and fury disappeared. Carter, elected with the help of the black vote, termed King's endorsement the turning point of his campaign. 
Carter still holds the bles­sings of the King family as he faces the 1980 election, but there is doubt the King endorsement will be enough to deliver the black vote again to the Deep South's first president since Reconstruction. 
Today there is dissension and frustratior. among black voters over issues unlikely to be quickly resolved or to fade far from memory: the resignation of U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Andrew Young, strained relations between blacks and Jews, the impact on blacks of inflation and unem­ployment. 
And there is the candidacy of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, whose family woo the affections of many blacks during the early days of the civil rights move­ment. 
An October poll by the Atlan­

ta-based Darden Research 
Corp. found Kennedy leading 
HEW announces plan to cu'rh college sports bias 
WASHINGTON (AP) .: The government formally announc­ed new guidelines for ending sex bias in college athletics, including a provision that sports scholarship money be distributed in proportion to the number of male and female athletes enrolled. 
The guidelines announced yesterday mean that unless schools find new sources of income, they may have to shift funds from expensive, all-male football programs to provide per capita scholarship aid to women athletes. 
For example, if 40 percent of a school's athletes are women, female athletes must receive 40 percent of the money a college allots for scholarships. 
The guidelines, which super­sede a tentative policy state­ment issued a year ago, immed­iately were attacked by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. But the assoc:a­tion's spokesman, Bill Kramer, said no decision had been made on what action to take. 
The government also will evaluate such specific factors as the provision of equipment. coaching assignments and the provi!:iJUil of locker rooms and other facilities to determine if an institution is discriminating against women athletes. 
"It is important to note that 
HEW . is not requiring that 
benefits -such as locker facili­
ties or coaching staffs -be 
identical,'' Patricia Roberts 
Harris, Secretary of Health, 
• PLAN AHEAD POR 
···········•·········•···· ... 
Education  and  Welfare,  told  
reporters  in  announcing  the  
guidelines.  

"We will, however, compare programs to determine whether policies and practices provide equilalent opportunities throughout men's and women's sports programs. 
Mrs. Harris said the guide­lines would ''give colleges • and universities maximum tlexibil­ity in developing and main­taif_ling their. at~ktic ero""ams 
while estabhshmg dear· tan­dards for insuring that their programs are free from sex discrimination.'' 
The NCAA's Kramer dis­agreed. 
"We think they ought to be doing an assessment of the total athletic program instead of applying an arbitrary financial standard," he said. 
The scholarship provision is the one the NCAA strongly opposes, Kramer said. He described it as a ''financial quota.'' . 
"We're opposed to it," he said. "Exactly what we'll do, I don't know." 
The guidelines are an inter­pretation requested by colleges and universities of Title IX of the 1972 Education Act, which bars sex discrimination in fed­erally assisted programs. Fed­eral money generally does-not go to college athletic programs. But the government takes the view that any institution receiv­
[continued on page 2] 
······•················· ..,

GRATEFUL u~~D l\f/Gl-IT 
···············~:z;···~-;~················" 
thursday night see tomorrow 's paper for details 
•·•··········••···•··•·····················•·•···•·••·•··•····· 
Carter 50 percent to 3 5 percent among black voters in Georgia, the president's home state. With all voters included in the 57-townsampling of 500 voters, the poll indicated Carter would still carry his home state in Georgia's March 11 Primary. Those percentages were 60 percent for Carter and 27 percent for Kennedy. 
But much would be made over the symbolism if Carter could not hold the black vote at home. 
"Ifthere is dissention among the black voters at home, that's going to multiply across the nation,'' said Georgia state Rep. Hosea Williams, former executive director of the Sou­thern Christian Leadership Conference,. 
''Part of the problem of the president may be that he estab­lished expectations which the administration simply cannot fulfill whether it wanted to or ' not," said Suitts. "The net effects of what's happened is that the president is not going to be able to count on large numbers of black supporters if there is another candidate who does have a traditional consti­
• • . Carter 
[continued from page 1] 
cnses. 
"As president," Carter said, ''I have made some hard deci­sions, and I expect to make more. I have made some mistakes, and I have learned from them.. I have fought some bitter fights against pow­erful special interests -and I expect to go on leading the fight for the common good of our people." 
Acknowledging [hat "I carry some scars and I carry them with pride," Carter said the na­tion's course "is not changed overnight'' in the face of dif­ficult problems. But he said his administration's course "is the right one, and we must not turn aside." 
Carter said he will talk ''sense to the American peo­ple" echoing the 1952 cam­paign theme of Democrat Adlai 
E. Stevenson, who twice lost presidential races to. repub­lican Dwight D. Eisenhower. 
"In these difficult times," ~'::arter said, ':?ur greatest ally 1s the truth ... 
''There is no longer such a thing as cheap energy. That is the truth.'' 
"We cannot wish our way out 
of inflation. That is the 
truth." 
"We cannot spend our way out of every problem. That is the truth.'' 
. tuency among blacks.'' a president. 
In his most recent endorse-''Unemployment is still high. 
ment of Carter, ''Daddy'' King The median income of blacks 
said,"Senator Kennedy is our compared to whites has 
friend. Our tragedies are alike. slipped. Marry that to inflation 
But I am Jimmy Carter's close and you find a kind of numb­
friend. I am not goin~ to throw ness,'' he said. 
out one good fnend for "This time, I think we'll look 
another." , more'closely at candidates, get 
But another black leader, the/ more specific commitments and 
SCLC' s president, ] oseph look more to issues than per­
Lowery, said black support for sonalities," Lowery said. 
Carter in 1976 has gone unre-But some political observers 
warded. see a growing disability of key 
''We rallied in 1976 to get out black leaders to deliver votes. 
the black vote, and some 6 A white "political 
million voted for Carter," said marketing" expert, who asker 
Lowery. "That might have not to be identified, said,"I 
been a beginning of new in-haven't toiled in those vine­
terest, but it has not made a 
[continued on page 2]
difference that we helped elect 

ay, December 6-­


Annual St. Nicholas' 
Day Party for the 
Children of the 

Notre Da:ine-St. Mary's Communit 
Beginning with the Lighting -·~·· of the Campus Christmas ~~ 
tree, at 6:30P.M.·in front {~
.~,.~,,1\'i:~' ~ . 
o · ortune. -,.,.~ ...
f LaF 
The party will be in LaFortune Ballroom, after the tree is lighted. 
Music, magic, gifts, goodies and SANTA CLAUS.will be featured 
All the clrildren are invited to be _Santa's guests. 
On Saint..Nicholas Da_y, ThursdayDecember 6, 1979 Children, please come with parents to celebrate the feast day of your own special Saint. 
Rev.RobertGrllfin,CSC 



MOCK CONVENTION STATE CHAIRMEN 
applications now 
bein~.~ accept~.d 

apply at r;nstudent Govt Ofiices 
any ND or SMC stu.dent may apply for State or Territorial Otairman DEADLINE: Fri. Dec. 7, 5 .m. 


The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1979-page 4 

Controversy arises from 'Who~ catastrophe 
CINCINNATI (AP) -City offi­suffocated others in the rush for cials said yesterday promoters seats. Doctors said victims of The Who concert delayed up.. suffered "foot-print" injuries, 
to one hour in opening doors to but the exact cause of death will 
Riverfront Coliseum despite a not be known until death autop­police warning of a "potential sies are completed. danger" posed by thousands of The promoters, Electric Fac­waiting fans. tory Concerts Inc. of Philadel­
City Councilman Jerry Spring­phia, said they would have no er said the alleged delay was immediate cotnment on the ''definitely a problem'' Monday allegation about the doors. 
night when 11 people were Earlier, the promoters said in a 
killed and 22 were injured by a statement that they would have stampede of 8000 fans, eight no immediate comment ~'due to persons remained hospitalized the gravity of the incident.'' yesterday. Bill Curbishley, personal man­
City Safety Director Richard ager for the Who, said the Castellini said police recog­doors were opened three or four
Chnstmas nears as students include shopping for cards in their bookstore vzsits. [photo 
nized the· potential danger at minutes afrer 7 p.m. and the
hy Mike Bigley] 

6:30 p.m., which he said was concert began on schedule by about the time doors fur such an showing a clip from the group's event would normally open. movie, "Quadrophenia." He 
''Police asked the promoter to :,aid the band began playing at
SWE 
open up but he said the group 8:20p.m. as planned. was late and that he couldn't Officials said only the two open," Castellini said. "He banks of doors were c1pened on
to hold tour was told there were not enough the west side because there ticket takers to open more than were not enough ticket-takers just the north bank of doors.'' to open other entrances. 
Springer said two banks of Those with reserved seat tick­doors -or 16 in all -were ets were admitted without inci­
of building 
Transpo gets you 

The Society of Women opened on the west side of the dem on the north side of thejust abOut anywhere Engineers is sponsoring a tour coliseum for general admission coliseum. you want to go of the new engineering building between -:-:15 p.m. and 7:30 
One concengoer, Diana Cu­
at 4:00 p.m. romorrow for p.m. The crush occurred as
in South Bend­hert. 20, or Erlanger, Ky., said 
women engineers. Please meet waitmg fans heard the band
Mishawaka. "people on the reserved side
in the lobbv of Cushing Hall. A warming up and stormed the got in all right. The people on w ne and cheese parry will building. breaking down one the other side didn · t have af low. 1 door that was locked. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and



_The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rose'?ary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managzng Editor....... .. Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authQJS. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the commumty, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... -~·.Mc!Gadl of the University of Notre Dame du lac and .the free expression of varying News Editor .................Mike Shields Advertising Manager .. ....... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opiniOns on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor .... .Ellen BuddY. Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassii Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 

I 

Get Up and Go 



: tranmo 
For infocall233-2131 
.,, IN CONCERT 

F)ilEWORilf 
HON 
& SAT., DEC. ·ath-8pm 
STEPAN CENTER, NOTRE DAME 
1\dvance Tickets $5 -At the Door $6 Student Union Ticket Office 

chance.·· 

The surgtng fans trampled and 
·'The\· should have known 
There's nothing mo1e revealing than a naked diamond. · 
The diamelnd you buy should have nothing to hide. That's why it's advisable to select your stone and mounting separately 
Before a diamond is mounted, your jeweler can easily demonstrate its cut, color, clarity 1d carat weight to you. With his help, Y9U will be able to ae and compare the brilliance of different stones your...elf. 
Brilliance is the .<ey to beauty in didmonds. Always look for a diamond that has been cut and polished to bring out all of its natural brilliance, ·one that meets the exact-...--=:------... ing standards that have been established as ~

II\: 

ideal. Thi3Se are called ideal cut diamonds. ~~ 
LK Ideal Cut Diamonds ens•Jre you of getting IDEAL cur the most beauty and value. DIAMOND 
JEWELER 

Diamond Import Company 
Lohbv St.. Joseph Bar~k Buil<iing South Bend, Indiana 4G601 2H7-1427 
they ~eeded more than two doors open,'· she said, refer­ring to the two banks of doors. The rock group's multiple-city 
U.S. tour continued Tut'sday with a concert in Buffalo, N.Y. 
Society postpones meeting 
The De:cember meeting of the Notre Dame Historical Society, Scheduled for tonight, has been postponed until the January meeting date. 
EPA Board 
asks Gordon 

to serve 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice­president for advanced studies and professor of biology here, has been invited to serve a four year term on the Ecology Committee of the Science Advi­sory Board of the U.S. Environ­mental Protection Agency. 
The Science Board advises the EPA administrator on the scientific aspects of environ­mental problems and issues. 
' .
• _, ~ • f

"' 

------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1979-page 5 

Song gets mixed reviews 
by Mary Fran Callahan StaffReporter 
In an effort to reduce the mounting tension of the Iranian situation, four Notre Dame students wrote and recorded a song entitled ''Iranian in My Heart'' which is now generat­ing mixed reactions. 
Pat Byrnes, a junior who authored the lyrics, said yes­terday that students and WSND personnel have been comment­ing favorably on his song. 
WSND has been playing the song since the beginning of this week. However, AM News Director Kathy Murray was unaware of the song. After listening w the recording yes­terday, she commented, "I think it's frightful that students at Notre Dame are so revenge­
ful  and  speaking  in  such  re­ 
vengeful terms.''  
Excerpts from  the  song  in­ 
clude:  

Cancer's enough to krll a man But not ifhe is from Iran. So let them barmers burn They won't send us no more 
oil ... 
They call us the ''Satan'' nou 
I think we could vapon'ze Tehran and them theocrats 'Cause we could blow them into the sky Nuke them suckers so damned hi h TCey 'd need a reserved ticket to come down. We could stop their burnin ' the flag Stuff their ashes in a Hefty bag ... 
After hearing the first verse of the recording, a WSND disc jockey, playing the tape yester­day, called the song "in poor taste.'' 
Byrnes completed the lyrics a week before Thanksgiving and 
said he thought it was humor­ous and would be all the more humorous if set to music. 
He then approached three of his friends and eventually re­corded ''Iranian'' with juniors Kevin McCarthy on lead guitar, Greg Butler and Jim Lanz on yocals and Byrnes on harmon­tea. 
Murray said although Ameri­cans' natural reaction is anger, a forgiving Christian attitude 
But  jimmy  ought  to  shou  toward  Iran  is  more  appro­ 
them how  priate.  
They can all go to Hell ...  Referring  to  the  tone  of the  

HPC discusses College Bowl, alcohol surveys, visitations 
byjana Schutt 

The Hall President's Council (HPC) held its final meeting of the semester last evening to tie up loose ends before Christmas break. Discussions included the College Bowl, alcohol sur­veys, and high school visitation. 
Ed Bylina, representative of the students in charge of the College Bowl, explained that the interhall games began last Sunday. The $100 allotted to the group was used to purchase the packets of questions neces­sary for competition. 
A roll call of the dorms solicited $120 more in funding for the Bowl. These were all donations given as a service by the dorms. 
Bylina said that this is the second year that we have been conducting the College Bowl. We are trying to make it an activity taken care of through Student Activities in the near future, which wouJd alleviate the need for additional funds. 
The alcohol surveys con­ducted by Psychological Ser­vices through hall councils were returned with over 50 percent participation. 
An announcement was made 
that any membersof the Notre Dame Undergraduate Schools Committee interesLed in visit­ing high schools in their area over Christmas break should contact Don Bishop in the Admissions Office between Dec. 10 and 20. Any questions may be directed to Terri Ware­ham (7883) or Tom Kozloski (6981). 
Kate McGuire sent a thank­you message to the Council for the participation in the clothing drive sponsored by the Volun­teer Services office for Vietna­mese families in South Bend. 
Hesburgh 
appoints 
new advisor 
Attorney Newton N. Minnoe, of Chicago, has been afpointed to the advisory counci for the University's College ofArts and Letters by President Theodore 
M. Hesburgh. 

Minnow formerly served on the University's Board of Trus­tees for 13 years. 
PUT THE CAMPUS ON YOUR TABLE 
Now on sale at the Bookstore 
NOTRE DAME--• 
.....--PLACEMATS 
featuring: four popular scenes in color of the Notre Dame campus Suitable for framing only S9.95/ set of four 

song, she commented, "That's their (Iran's) game--with all the dirty tricks. It shouldn't be
.. 
ours. 

Byrnes said the purpose of the song was not to arouse political activism. He said he found the entire Iranian situation "ab­surd" and began researching 
it. 

"The more I looked into it, the sillier the whole thing looked," Byrnes explained. He said he thought his lyric was topical and "funny." 
''I thought we could have fun with it. Ifanything--it's a break in the tension," he said. 
According to Byrne, WSND called to compliment him on his efforts over the weekend and students have also been react­ing positively to the song. 
WSND-AM Program Director Mike Tanner was unavailble for comment. 
THE

tND 
HEIRESS 

s~.c at E:CO P.M T H f.,~ ; ' : ou~·~~'UN Phc!le: 284·4176 ~.~;Ja i. ~:!UM 

Waiters/ 
•
wrutresses Shifts available 3pm-llpm llpm-7am 
e enjoy top pay efree insurance epaid vacations eprofit sharing 

full or part time 
positions available 

apply in person at 
Denny's52626 US 31 N 







LOOK! 
THE OBSERVER WILL PUBLISH IT'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE BREAK ON FRI DEC. 7th, . THERE WILL BE A SPECIAL SECT 

Of: CLASSIFIED CHRISTMAS GREETINGS 
TO PLACE YOUR PERSONAl IN THIS SECTION COME TO THE BSERVER OFFICE BETWEEN THE 
HOURS OF 10-2 MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
NE IS 2:00 ON WED. DEC. 




RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern ln,dlana'a largest tecord and tape selection and concert ticket headquarteta 
$1.00 off 

any album or tape exotres Dec. 24, 1979 ·(limit 1 coupon per person) 
18,000 albums and tape• In stock ND/SinC 1tudent checks accepted fot up to J20.00 ovet putchaae amount Open 10 to 10, 7 days a week 
Rivet City Recorda 50970 U.S. 31 North 3 mile• notth of compu1 277-4242 


$200,000 INVENTORY 
REDUCTION~-­


131 N. Main St., Elkhart
Sat., Dec. 8 -Sun., Dec. 16 Across from McDonalds
colo<....~ ~voe~' 

in Downtown Elkhart 
~ 0'~~'-j ~ 
See Mitch and Willie, The Wild and Crazy Guys: 

"We Will Not Be Undersold' 





Features 
Wednesday, December 5, 1979 -page 6 

Flesh and Spirit 
Elizabeth Christman 


William Morrow and Co., Inc. 
1979 

''She wondered as she had a hundred times, whether it was plea­sing to God or displeasing, this urge she had to give up her own comfort, desires, vocation, her own sefness, even, to lessen another person's suffering." · 
This thought passes through the mind of Sister Brigid, and illustrates r he central tension of the novel Flesh and Spirit The nun's problem IS how to grve herself in a way that is pleasing to God. Sister Brigid works rn the campus ministry office of a university. She is an idealist and 
wants to live a life that is Christ-like 
in all respects. Father Porter Woods 
is her co-worker and tries to get 
Brigid to realize that one need not be 
completely self-sacrificing in order to 
please God. He insists that God 
wants his people to enjoy the gifts 
that he has bestowed upon them. 
''God gave you your attractive looks. 
It's and insult to him not to use 
them.'' 

Sister Brigid' s conflict between 
desires of the flesh and of the spirit 
climax in her relationship with Larry 
Dineen. This aspect of her life is a 
highly moving and compassionate 
story of love. Sister BrigiJ must 
discern whether she would be more 
beneficial to the world by loving one 
individual completely or by loving all 
humanity freely. Brigid must iden­
tify the line that exists between 
choosing to suffer unnecessarily and 
simply following Christ. 

Sister Brigid' s problem is one that all devout Christians must face and resolve in their lives. Brigid wants to give up her life, but to do it in the way that God wants her to. The key is to discover how much God expects and wants. 
"We are all in this state of uncertainty. I do not think Sister Brigid's problems are any more a nun's problems than .they are any Christian's problems," says Miss Elizabeth Christman, author of Flesh and Spirit. 
A Nice Italian Girl, Christman's first novel, was published in 1976 by Dodd Mead. It is the story of a young Catholic girl who after finding herself pregnant and abandoned by her lover, -falls victim to adoption racketeers. The story was trans­formed into an ABC television adap­tion entitled "Black Market Baby" which was aired October 7, 1977. In addition to her two novels, Christman has also publish~d many articles and 
short stories for a wide variety of 
publications which include: ''The 
Reporter", "The Sign", "The Cath­
olic World", and "The Saturday 
Evening Post". 
Flesh and Spirit is Christman's 
second novel. It was published this 
year by William Morrow and Com­
pany. It will soon appear as an Avon 
paperback, and this fall it will come 
out in a Reader's Digest book 
volume. The story will probably 
never be a movie because the 
tensions of the novel exist within the 
mind of the young nun-she is the 
victim of interior conflicts which are 
very difficult to capture in a film. 
Elizabeth Christman, the oldest of 
seven children, grew up in Webster 
Groves, Mis~ourri--a suburb of St. 
Louis. In 1935 she graduated from 
Webster College--a Catholic 
women's college--with a degree in 
English. For a period of almost ten 
years, Christman tried her hand at 
writing, and served in various tem­
porary jobs. She remained at the last 
of these temporary jobs for twenty­
three years. The job was with Harold 
Ober Associates, one of the oldest 
and most respected literary agencies 
in Manhattan. 

Christman progressed through 
many jobs at the Ober agency. She 
began as a secretary, then served as 
a reader, then finally as a literary 
agent. She dealt with major pub­
lishers, magazine editors, and movie 
producers--the literary circle is truly 
a glamorous world. Christman 
personally handled the work of J.D. 
Salin~er (her copy of Catcher in the 
Rye IS a first edition signed by the author), Pearl S. Buck, William Faulkner, and Agatha Christie. In addition to the glamour of her profession, Christman loved working with new, talented, young writers. This aspect of her job sparked her to desire to become a college professor. 
When nearly fifty years old, Christ-

Ghoulies and Ghosties and Long-legged Beasties ... 
based game ofstrategy, sktll and luck. 
Photo by john Macor 
Every Tun.day, deep within the 
gloomy catacombs, thf' Dungeon 
Master casts his spell of magic. 
Every Tuesday night his disciples 
answer the call, drawn from their 
lighted rooms down into LaFortune 
basement. And every Tuesday night 
a common force compels them to play 
Dungeon" and Dragons. 
It's a game, not like Monopoly or 
Ri-;k-those are for kids. D and D is 
on a level of complf'xity with serious 
chess, or more accurately, the legion 
of simulated board games that are 
grnwing 111 popularity every day. 
It's a fantasy. Each player 
assume·.-. a persona, the Dungeon 
Mastn-;r ~llj)('l ior player-creates the 
scenarios in which the personas live 
and all. Bur the action is all in the 
mrnd. lc-!1 111 the player's imagi­
narlon . 
.Joe \Vhcatnn is Dungeon Master for the wc('klv game in LaFortune. He design-. a world that exists from 7 to I0 evnr Tucsda~· and peoples it with everything from Ogres to Heroes, 300 entities in all. The settings of the game range from Deserts ro Raintoresrs, and the rules are drawn from the pages of rhe three official D and D handbooks. 
Ioe explains D and D as ''A role playing fantasy based in rrealitv. The roles are quantified by throwing dice. Each quantification determines a trait for the persona a player rakes on. These traits run through a full spectrum depending solely on the outcome of the die."' They also decide whether you meet a dragon or a pnncess. 
The player puts himself in Joe's world and Joe favors his trust by 

Sal Granata 

providing the story plot. ''The Dungeon Master has to stay a few steps ahead of the players and the plot ~~n get .pretty complex at umes. 
The game will go on till the end of the school year. Dand D came to Notre Dame about 
five years ago. Back then, Pete Ryder ran a game with two other students. Today there are at least 50 D and D garners on campus. This particular group got started after Joe advertised for Dand D players in the Observer. Garners Anonymous, an information service, registered 29 
man began working towards ad­
vanced degrees at New York Univer­
sity night school. She obtained both 
her Masters and Doctorate degrees 
from this University. Christman 
began her teaching career in 1968 at 
St. Peter's College in Jersey City, 
then left the New York area for 
Indiana, where she has remained 
ever since. After teaching at DePauw 
University for seven years, Elizabeth 
Christman joined the faculty of Notre 
Dame. 

Christman teaches four classes for the American Studies Department: Book Publishing, Writing for Publi­cation, Fiction Writing, and Modern American Fiction. Students at Notre Dame love Miss Christman--her classes are among the most sought after in the American Studies Depart­ment. Jana Schun, one of Christ­man's B-ook Publishing students com­mented, "I think she is the most personable teacher I have had here at Notre Dame. She is always willing to help in whatever way she can." 
Christman is constantly urging her students to write lean prost>, to be specific, use derails, and to employ concrete examples. She is espeCJally conscious of her valuable advice while sitting at her own typewriter. "Teaching writing has helped me to improve my own writing." 
Miss Christman has led a full life and her students can not escape benefitting by the vast experiences of her history that she brings with her into the classroom. As a student of Miss Christman's Writing for Publi­cation class, I can attest to the fact that she is not only a fine reacher, but a warm person who truly cares about her students. After reading Flesh and Spirit, I can also say that Miss Elizabeth Christman is an excellent writer. The book is lively, memor­able, and remarkable--just like the author. 
by Colleen Short 
player:. on activity night earlier thi-. 
semester. 

Ken Peckowski, '71, of Griffon 
Rook Store in South Bend report" "a 
dramatic rise in sales of Dungeons 
and Dragons ser... over the past 
twelve months. We started carrying 
it when we opened in 1<)7), now we 
are easily selling a game a day." 
The Griffon is a local Headquarter-. 
for the board game crowd. The store 
deals in all types of D and D resource 
material, die and supplementary 
rules, as well as Avalon Hill and 
Simulations Publications war games. 
"We have games running in our 
back room every Wednesday, Thurs­
day, and Friday night as well as on 
Saturdays,'' Peckowski said. The 
games average about 15 player::;. 
The players represent a fairly 
broad cross-section. Ages vary from 
High School Club to a lor of college 
and posr-collegt· people to a rare one 
over thirty. Women are the rarest of 
all Terry Linehan plays D and D on 

Tuesday nights. She is one of the few 
women who takes her game 
seriously. "It's an escape, a way to 
play someone else without thinking 
too hard about it." 

She thinks D and D isn't as popular with women as with men because "you have to be indoctrinated. A lor of people come over to D and D from other board games and guys are ,. usr more prone to play those rhan gir s.'' 
Mat Finnegan was introduced to D and D while at High School, he's been playing ever since. He has also been a Dungeon Master. "Dungeons and Dragons is a lot of fun. It's like any other game, you play it because you enjoy H." 
It's a weird sight-to walk into LaFortune and see a bunch of young adults, huddled over notepads and dice, popcorn, cokes, and peanuts, reading off chance encounters with necromancers and firebrearhing lizards. But, if you could read their minds, what a tale their thoughts could tell. 
----~---­
----~----;----------.­

pictures ·will form a symbol of the cultural graffiti we've just discussed. They will, however, make few value judgements, and this says more than anything else about out decade. The willingness to make a value judge­ment, to separate tht good from the bad and bad from thf" ugly, marks the first step in any change~ As the seventies end it would serve us well--all of us--to make a few oursel­ves. The good news is we have an entire decade ahead of us in which we 
will  take  our  turn  at  running  the  
world.  
In  the  meantime,  have  a  warm:  

and peaceful Christmas. 

of the elite few, sprung up all around the country. Attendees danced to such thought-provoking tunes as "Making It," particularly apropos in its ability to suggest, at the same t_ime, both sex and money. So much 
for "art" in the seventies. 
The seventies could probably be excused for its excesses and fore­bodings if someone were able to prove that its isolated events--taken 
S:S a whole-_-were merely the reflec­tion ofa society grown neurotic in the approach of that most ominous of years, 1984. But that won't be easily proved. The data would seem to suggest that most people probably could not be counted on to have read the book. Another way to explain away the decade might lie in Year's th~ory on the phases of society. He said that man proceeded in 2,000 year cycles, from the technological Egyptians !n 4,000 B.C. to the 
modern technologists beginning at vt>ar zero. If that is the case, we are headed for another introspective per­iod in a few short years, and the seventies can be dismissed as "gl:t­ting it all out of our system." 
Fat chance. But at least it is something to think about. 
-
11"'!1------....,..~-------------------------------------~----­
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1979 -page 8 


• • • Fuller 
geodesic structure utilized this
[continued from page 1] 

efficient use of opposing forces. 
new era of humanity, which had He also demonstrated that the 
different, broader kinds of triangle and tetrahedron were 
reality" other than sensory the basic structures of the 
experience. He said he felt that universe, and not the square, as 
man's perception of himself is taught in today's schools. At 
was changing, and cited the one poim, Fuller threw a model 
effects of Einstein's concept of of the cube across the stage to 
the universe as "an aggregate make his point. 
of non-simultaneous events" Fuller capped his speech with 
and the discovery of photosyn­an anecdote about a king who 
thesis. maintained his power by spec­
We seem to have the capabil­ializin~ his subjects into distinct 
ity of consciously participating disciplmes, and said structures 
in the success of the universe,'' of today maintain their authority 
Fuller said. in the same way. 
Fuller described, using visual He warned, however, that 
models, the concepts of tension ''extinction is a consequence of 
and compression, and how his over-specialization'' and he 

,~WiN1ER' SHERE!
I 1

I '• '• ·~ 
I STORE YOUR BIKE 
I I
I 
I WHERE: Gate 14-Stadium 1 1
1WHEN T D 4 ed
: ues. ec. . Dec. 51
1 
I
I I
I I Note:
I • 
, W 
I


and Thurs. Dec 6. 
1
I

1-4 PM 0 NLY! ! ! I 
I

Bikes must be registered !!1 

I Regtster at: Lost & Found I 
' 

1.-.ehotbzadeh as saying the hos­

1 Rm 121 Adm Bldg I 
I 
• \ 


Between 8:30 a.m. & noon I
I 

and 1:30 p.m. & 6:00 p.m, 
Serial nos. necessary
...________________, 
offered more "comprehensive 
thought'' as a solution. 
He sug~ested that the youth of today IS less inclined to be affected by political and social authorities, saying that young people ''are in love with love. '' The audience responded with a standing ovation. 
Fuller was invited to speak by the Student Union Academic Commission. He has served as a consultant to a wide range of governmental and private agencies, and as an advisor to many intellectual and political leaders. 
He has been Distinguished University Professor at Southern Illinois University since 1959, and is a fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts and the American Association to the Advancement of Science . 
. Threat 

[cbntinued from page 1] 
to try the hostages on espion­age charges only if Carter stuck to his refusal to send back the 
sh~~ere 
was no reported change in the condition of the hostages, who have been held 
since the U.S. Embassy in
Tehran was seized by a mob on Nov. 4. 
However, it was reported that militiamen under the orders of Khomeini, the Iranian 
revolutionary leader, had in­creased the guard at the em­
bassy compound, apparently in anticipation of a U.S. attempt to free the hostages. 
It appeared from Ghotbzadeh' s remarks that the ruling Revolutionary Council 
was stepping up pressure by offering a Khomeini "pardon" instead of no trial as the price of 
the hostages' eventual freedom. 
Le Figaro also quoted 
ta~~s would be tried . by the 
militant students holdtng the embassy. This was not report­ed by the television here, and a student spokesman at the 
em~assy imme~!ately ?enied it,
saymg only an Islamtc revolu­~io':lary . court'' would have
JUrtsdtCt!On. 

EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED IN A BUCKET, AND MORE!!" 

''Space Invaders'' plague this student, as he accepts the challenge ofthis infamous game. . 



Sociology Club offers Mini-Urban Plunge 
by Mary Leavitt 
' 

The Sociology Club will spon­sor a Mini-Urban Plunge pro­gram this week in cooperation with the Justice of Peace Cen­ter in South Bend, according to ] oan Driscoll, co-chairman of the organizational committee for the plunge. "We want students to become aware of the social services offered in the community,'' Driscoll said. 
The plunge is open to all Saint Mary's students and will take place today, tomorrow and Saturday afternoons from 1 to 5 
p.m. Students may sign up to attend on any of the giVen afternoons. They will be given a tour of various social service centers in South Bend, such as the Urban Renewal office and an alternative school system. 
The cost for the tour is $1. 
Driscoll explained that the idea for the mini-urban plunge originated with Mary Kay Cohan, a member of the So­ciology Club and co-chairman of the organizational committee. The program was given a test run at the beginning of the year with only members of the Sociology Club being allowed to participate. The mini-plunge proved to be successful and consequently, is now open to all students. 
Lucy McVay, a member of the organizational committee, thinks the plunge will be a valuable experience for stu­dents. 
"I think everyone participat­ing will see a different side of South Bend," she said . 
DISCUSSION AND FILM on being a Brother, Sister , 
;-.:


or Priest 
'

in the Church today ' ' 
Farley Hall ' ' Thursday, Dec. 6 ' at 9:30p.m. 
sponsored by Indiana Campus Renewal Team 

--------------·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, December 5, 1979 -page 9 
... Road splits ..--·--------------·,
-~-n-h-~-e-d_fi_ro_m_p_a_g_e_12_]________b_o_d~y.-s-su_p_p-~-t-~-w-h-~-w-e-~-t-b-~-~-d-b_y_a_g_o_~~~dMOcy~Mect~g~ll 
"When we're all back, and I think we will be 
at full strength by the end of Christmas break, I don't see any reason why we can't finish at or near the top of the league." 
Which is exactly where most of the experts
predicted the Irish would end up way back before the season started. But if that is to happen, the Notre Dame hockey team had better start winning at home.
"This place could be a real snake pit," reflects Meridith as he looks around the ice arena. "The fans. are clos~ to the ice here and that kind of noise can make a difference. "Yes, it's a little disheartening when you skate onto the ice and see the stands half-empty. The time when we really need the student 
Owners foresee free agent change 
TORONTC' I AP) .;<;:nents of major J.gu ;scb·,il's hard-line a• o~ negc·•a­tions with :. .-\ssona­twn on a ne !:egan to leak Tueso game's annual win~ 0' 
On the ant there was no ar w·r the usual conglomer· ·n of rumors swirl­ing about hotel. Managers and g~ 11anagers milled in the lol. Others secret<:-d themsel. cJ rooms and nego­tiated 0' the telephone or 
face-to~f: 
Also t. was talk about the oft·m<:-m. J sale of the Oakland A's to D<:"nver magna'(' Marwin D<~vis, but the conse;.. sus is that A's owner Charlie Finley isn't · '{d~· for personal reasons. o L nd his Lontro­ve• ial ''''tnclr 
· nik olavc ·s aqd the A':, situatiOI; CJ, .1r tacers, tlk emphasis b:.· •)aU exec­utives is negoti. .vith th<:­Play<:-rs Assoc The owners <He:-·~ '1ed to change the {Fee system, which 1 
oner Bowie KuhP ' ·<;cni..it ·nday as a time bomb tickt :1way over baseball operations. 
The problem for the owners is how to gm back something they've already given away to the union. 
One idea the owners are considering is freezing a certain nvmber of players on the roster of a major league club acquiring a free agent, and making the rest available for compensation to the team stripped of the player. 
One thing is certain: the owners will not go along with the current system of receiving an amateur draft pick after losing, for example, a Pete Rose. 
Another system on the table'-­would be going to the old 
RESEARCH 
CANADA'S LARGEST SERVICE 
Send now for latest catalog, Thousands·of termpapers on all subjects. Enclose $5.00 to cover return postage. 
ESSAY SERVICES 
67 Yonge St., Suite NS04 Toronto. Ontario, Canada MSE 1JB ,... (416) 366-6549 

~-hiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIii.ti"a
aJcpQa~fg a~dja'gQowettg 
Cam pus Delivery in LaFortune 
Jugt COiOQ 284484 I CReguOn~ boM!19 hrutrs 
L.~.?.?.~!?'e~t oh ~~~~umme 
"Rozelle Rule," named after teams losing free agents were Pete Rozelle, commissioner of compensated by players consid­the National Football League. ered equal in value to the Under this plan, since scrapped players lost in the re-entryby the NFL following litigation, draft. 1 

+ 

or tWO, but that's when everybody sits down and I or 
just watches. Hockey is a great game for fan Ob T • I 
im;?lvem.ent .beca~se it's non-stop a<::tion. . I serve·r 1\Jhllsts I Nothmg 1s gomg to make a weak team wm I · .J'.Y~ 
consistently but we have a strong team and 1 
serious fan support could make a diffe.rnce in th.~ I Topic: Next Semester's Scheduling. 
one and two-goal games. I really bel!eve that. Of the four games the Irish have dropped at I ~ • h t At 6•30 1 
the ACC this season tw? have b.een by two goals \ .1. ontu I. 
and one has been by a smgle potnt. That means,
with a little'srudent support, the Notre Dame hockev team could be 11-2 and well ahead of the WCHA pack ... if, of course, Greg Meridith's assessment of the sin,Jation is correct. . But who's gonna argue with a Rhodes Scholarship candidate--especially one that's 205 pounds and carries a stick? · 
Most South Bend phone users will dial ·1 + 411 for local directory assistance effective December9. 

NOTRE DAME 
&ST. MARY'S 
. 0' 
._.________________, 
/**********************************~ 
i Layout Personnel i 
,..  .  ,..  
:  The Observer  ~  
,.. ~  needs  :,..  

,.. ,.. 
~ Interested students should contact : ~ john McGrath -phone 1715 ~ 
,.. . ,.. ************************************ 
Centrex users: Be ready to give your SEVEN-DIGIT PHONE NUMBER, not your student billing number, when the 
.... 

operator answers. 
@·Indiana Bell 
r 
I Ohio State 
I 
I 
I overtakes 
I 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, December 5, 1979-page 10 
Alabama

I 
I 
I in polls 
I 
Molarity 


Pidgeons 

IAJCLL, Pi-/EN YaJ~
I CAN 5f3E 
MAa IT 7Hf<O(j(jf{A
YOU'VE G/V&N 
acJIC£ L/1<& TH& 
1 TH/5 PAI<TY A S&V&NTI£7, liJNI<,
f G~TOCAL . OF THOUGHT, SOM& CEL£8RA­
TION 15 IN OWER..
o MICHII£L.. 


COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) ­Earle Bruce is delighted that Ohio State is where it is today ­ranked No. 1 by the Associated Press and headed for the Rose Bowl -but says cautiously that he'II wait for that showdown with Southern California before celebrating. 
"It's great," Bruce, Woody Hayes' first-year successor, said before departing for a New York dinner honoring Columbus sportsman John 

1AAT YOU ILLE'OW.Y AC!£P1fD i APHONE CALL FWJM F/VWCE. ; 
Galbreath Tuesday night. 
''But you know we still have a big game in the Rose against USC. I don't put stock in it until the final poll." 

Doug Donley, the Buckeyes' crack junior receiver, said the latest vote should provide extra incentive in the Rose Bowl against the third-ranked Trojans. "It's going to lift the team up. It's a great feeling. I'm pretty excited. Everybody wasn't expecting much out of 
by Michael Molinelli 



by McOure/Bymes 

by Garry Trudeau 

IT'S ALSO II GRANO OPPOI<JlJt/ITY TO PAY C05Tl/MEIJ 7RJ81JT& 70 TH& 7H{)()5AN05 OF 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

l1111r'1 
us, but the new coaches pulled us together," he said. 
The final poll decidins. the national championship will be taken after the bowl games on New Year's Day. ' 
Ohio State was unranked in the preseason poll and did not reach the Top Ten until after its fourth victory. The 48-year-old Bruce seemed almost dismayed by the vote that lifted the Buckeyes from third to first even though No. 2 Alabama, 
AH, Y£5, THE 
LATeR. 70 Be
"SUPeRSTAR.?." IBCL!eVe 
OF COU/?.5£! JO!NW BY CHER,
fAIHO WAS THe !TWAS 
AFT£!<. A H&F.TZ RENT-A­
FIRST m GeT Jl5SU5 
stOW STAtu.. C41<, ANO TH~
TAG&£30 /AJITH CHRJ5T. 
S/3X PISTOlS.
7HAT, ANYWAY'? 
I 

ACROSS 27 Fodder 45 -ami 13 Differe I 1 English spa 28 Sommer of 46 Hilariously 18 Ready.) 5 Tributary the screen entertain­sail 
ol the Po 29 Guidonian ing person 22 Record 9 Vale sacred note 48 Turns over cabinet, 
to Apollo 32 Respectful 52 Start of for short 14 Yearn denial a play 24 The "hot 15 Chicago 35 Abominable 54 Knob corner" 
business 36 Roman road 56 .._pro 26 Back street center 37 Cup or nobis" 30 Onion's 16 Prospero'<> medal 57 Bootleg cousin servant 38 United stuff 31 Defense 17 Reversal of 39 Preface 58 Go-between force course 40 Darn 60 Nearer the 32 Mention 19 Neon and 41 Rather center 33 Writer argon large, as 61 lnd1an Wister 20 Corroded a sum 62 Split 34 Rock 21 Sharp 42 Smelling 63 Very small, 35 Behold: Fr. 
projection from fumes to the very 36 A Dunne 22 Shove 43 Terminate small 39 Drive 23 Gravity man 44 Heraldi,.. 64 US explorer onward 25 Bay tree fillet 65 Black 41 Maple or 
g•nkgo DOWN 44 Hard to 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

1 Didn't-manage 
eyelash 45 Began to 2 Intense blossom 3 Pitched 47 Cheat 4 Biddy 49 Latm for 
5 State 32 D 
cap1tal 50 Imbibed 6 Access 51 Typ1cal 7 James Cam Scotsman 
story 52 ··1 don't 8 Likely mmd -.. 
9 Hmdu poet 53 Ice cream 10 Efface holder 11 Chnstmas 55 Repute 
decorat1on 58 Crowd 12 R1nd 59 Silkworm 
tj ranked a week ago, defeat­
e Auburn 25-18 Saturday. "I 
don't understand it," he ad­
mitted. 
The news failed to ruffle 
Alabama Coach Bear Bryant, 
but Crimson Tide faithful 
showed their wrath by tele­
phoning AP bureaus in 
Alabama and the AP sports 
desk in New York, where the 
poll is tabulated. 
In Selma, Ala., Bryant said, 
"No, I'm not upset. It's not 
going to change our game plan 
for the Sugar Bowl.'' 
Hollis Behel, a retired die 
setter from Florence, Ala., 
said, ''Alabama has the longest 
winning streak in the country 
and the bt:st defensive record in 
the country. I don't know what 
the voters' reasoning was. I 
just don't agree with them." 
A nationwide panel of 67 
sports writers and broadcasters 
accorded Ohio State 1,267 
points, Alabama 1,265 112 and 
Southern Cal 1, 257. Ironically, 
both the Tide and Trojans had 
more first-place votes, 29 and 
19, than the Buckeyes' 16. 
Ohio State and Alabama each 
are 11-0 while Southern Cal is 
10-0-l. 

It was the second-place ballots that proved the differ­ence. Ohio State's Big Ten champions were mentioned by 33 voters for second place. But eight voters left Alabama out of the top three. Only three ballots listed Ohio State lower than No. 3. 
Alabama will play sixth­ranked Arkan<;as in the Sugar Bowl. Fourth· .tnked Flonda State and No. 5 Oklahoma will meet in the Orange Bowl while No. 7 Nebraska tangles with No. 8 Houston in the Cotton Bowl. 
Brigham Young held onto ninth place while Pittsburgh's 29-14 victory ov<>r Penn State lifted the Panthers into lOth, 
'itts' first appearance of this 
~ason in the Top Ten. 
Top Twenty 
The Top T.wenty teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first place votes in parentheses, records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17-16-15-14 
-13-12-11-1 0-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 : 
1. Ohio State (16) 11-0-Q 2. Alabar1a (29) 11-0-0 3. So. California (19) 10-0-1 
4. Florida State 11-0-0 5. Oklahoma (1) 10-1-0 6. Arkansas (V2) 10-1-0 7. Nebraska 10-1-0 8. Houston (V2) 10-1-0 9. Brigham Young (1) 11-0-0 10. Pittsburgh 10-1-0 11. Texas 9-2-0 12. Purdue 9-2-0 13. x-Washington 9-2-0 14. Michigan 8-3-0 15. TulanP 9-2-0 
16. South Ca~ .dna 8-3-0 17. Auburn 8-3-0 18. Clemsc, 8-3-0 19. Baylor 7-4-0 20. Temple 9-2-0 x-lncludes forfeit by Arizona State 1267 12651/2 1257 1103 1068 
951 908 893Y2 848 728 677 606 489 
452 
386 
287 
244 
222 106 65 

Gabriel to JOtn institute 
Dr. A<;trik Gabriel, professor emeritt..., of Medieval studies at the University, 'Viii be a mem­ber of the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.)., during the second half of this yea1. · 
Gabriel is the former director of Notte Dame's Medieval Institute, a fellow of the Medi­eval Academy of America and a corresponding member of the French and Bavarian Acade­mies of Science. 

The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, December 5, 1979 -page 11 
Football 
The Associated Press 

Here is The Associated Press All-American college football team for 1979: 
First Team Offense 

Tight End -Junior Miller. Nebraska, 6-4, 222, Senior, Midland, Texas. Wide Receiver -Ken Margerum, Stanford, &1, 175, Junior, Fountain Valley, Calif. 
Tackles -Jim Bunch, Alabama, 6-1, 240, Senior, Mechanicsville, Va.; Greg Kolenda, Arkansas, 6-1. 258, Senior. Kansas City,Kan. 
Guards-Brad Budde, Southern California, &5. 253, Senior, Kansas City, Mo.; Ken 
Fritz, Ohio State, 6-3, 242, Senior, Ironton,
Ohto. •· .• · · Center-Jim Ritcher; North Carolina State 6-3, 245, Senior, Hinckley, Ohio. ' Quarterback -Marc Wilson, Brigham Younq, 6-5, 204, Senior, Seattle. Wash. Running Backs ·-George Rogers, South Carolina, &2, 210, Junior, Duluth, Ga.; Billy Sims, Oklahoma, 6-0, 205, Senior, Hooks, Texas; Charles White, Southern California, 6-0, 185, Senior, San Fernando, Calif. 
Defense 
Ends-Hugh Green, Pittsburgh, &2, 224, Junior, Natchez, Miss; Jac.ob Green. Texas A&M, 6-2, 230, Senior, Houston, Texas. 
Tackles -Steve McMichael, Texas, 6-2, 255, Senior, Freer, Texas. Jim Stuckey, Clemson, 6-5, 241, Senior, Cayc3, S.C 
Middle Guard -Ron Simmons, Florida State, 6-1, 235, Junior. Warner Robins, Ga. Linebackers -George Cumby, Oklahoma, 
6-0, 205, Senior, Gorman, Texas; Ron Simpkins, Michigan, &1, 225, Senior, Detroit, Mich.; Mike Singletary, Baylor, 6-1, 224, Junior, Houston, Texas. 
Backs -Kenny Easley, UCLA, 6-3, 204, Junior, Chesapeake, Va.; Mark Haynes, Colorado, 5-11, 184, Senior, Kansas City, Kan.; Johnnie Johnson, Texas, 6-1, 185, Senior, LaGrange, Texas. 
Second Team Offense 
Tight End-Dave Young, Purdue. Wide Receiver -Rick Beasley, Appalachian State. Tackles -Tim Foley, Notre Dame; Steve 
McKenzie, San Diego State. Center-Dwight Stephenson, Alabama. Quarterback -Paul McDonald, Southern 
California. Running Backs -James Brooks, Auburn; Vagas Ferguson, Notre Oame; James Hadnot, Texas Tech. 
Defense 
Ends -Rick Antle, Oklahoma State: E.J. 
Junior, Alabama. 
Tackles -Rulon Jones, Utah State; Doug 
Martin, Washington. 
Middle Guard -Ken Loushin, Purdue. 
Linebackers -Dan Bass, Michigan State; 
David Hodge, Houston; Lance Mehl, Penn State. Backs -Derrick Hatchett, Texas; Roland James, Tennessee; Lovle Smith, Tulsa. 
Third Team Offense 
Tight End-Benjie Pryor, Pittsburgh. 
Wide Receiver -Steve Coury, Oregon State. 
. Tackles-Melvin Jones, HOJJsron; Herman Parker. Long Beach State. Guards -Wayne Inman, East Carolina; 
Craig Wolfley. Syracuse. · · Center-Ray'Donaldson, Georgia. Quarterback-Art Schlichter, Ohio State. Running Backs -Joe Cribbs, Auburn; 
Freeman McNeil, UCLA; Dennis Mosley,Iowa. · 
Defense 

Ends -Gerry Gluscic, Indiana State; Bob Kohrs, Arizona State. Tackles-Cleveland Crosby, Arizona; Dino 
Mangiero, Rutgers. Middle Guard -George Mayes, Army. Linebackers-Thomas Boyd, Alabama: Bob 
Crable, Notre Dame; Otis Wilson, Louisville. 
Backs -Monk Bonasorte, Florida State; Don McNeal, Alabama; Dennis Smith, Southern California. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. Till Ollltrwr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m All 
ctassifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail .
Classifieds 
• 

We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a Have van, need riders to Oklahoma or St.
ot1ces 
day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling Louis. Leave 20 or sooner. Brian 
To the Entertainrnent Committee-­
For Sale
Rent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
232-8594. 

Thanks for the ~ong. You were great.
ant your plants cared for during Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323. f Yours in the 4seasons,vacation? Call 277-3074. 
Kenwood amp and speakers for sale. Call ATTENTION PINARoom for rent--near rides. $45.00 per 
Bernie 287-0864. SENIOR All WSND "Bids you au-bowl" prize month. 233-1329. 
CHEG'S Scooter,winners must pick up their prizes by 
For Sale: UTAH M-5500 Speakers -12" 
Could Moses Lake be nearly as exciting
Monday, December 10, 1979. Student house for rent, second semester. T.A.-ING YOUR
Woofer-tweater and Midrange -$80 for 
as Chicago? Sure it is! (By the way,Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call 
pair. Call Shawn (1468). CLASSES WAS TRULY where Is it?)
-Interested in learning more about a life of 272-1729 after 5:00. 
A PLEASURE a Brother, Sister or Pnest in the Church Drive Home for Christmas--1975 Chevy GOOD LUCK Happy anniversary! What does Glucktoday? Come to a discussion and film in Need two female roommates to share Vega Wagon, Radio, Heater, air, New ON YOUR FINALS Gluck mean again?
the Farley Hall lounge, Thursday, house. Close to campus 232-2578 after tires. Excellent Condition. 25 MPG. I'M CONFIDENT December 6, 1979 at !!:30 pm or talk to 10:00 P.M. 
$950.00. Call 233-5278. YOU'LL DO WELL 
Partying gotten you down? Lost touch Team in the library foyer on Wednesday 
the Indiana Campus Ministry Renewal with literature? If you have, join the N.D. 
SKIS for sale. K2 255 Soft 185 em. Used HAPPY HOLIDAYS Library-Book Club, and enjoy readingevening or during the day on Thursday. 
Wanted 
1 year 8670. BILBO 
books again. For info., call 3455 and ask for Putz, you'll be glad you did.
Mandatory 

United half-fare coupon $40 cash or best CHAD! 
Typist meeting Wed., Dec. 5 -6:30 -WSN D is looking for a Sales Manager. 
offer. Call 4462. Happy 21st! Make it MEGJA, WAY 
Jennifer, _
Observer Office. This is a paid position. Call #7425 FUN, but most of all--COLOR"UL.
between 2-4 pm for details. Will you marry me? I promise not to 
For Sale -Two WHO tickets -Dec. 8 -love, Lisa watch any more football games.
Used Book Shop. Optm Wed., Sat., Sun. 
$50. -Fran 8168.
9-7. Ralph Casperson 1303 Buchanan Need ride to Minnesota for X-mas. Will Love,
Gretchen is heading up a new Mission: 
Rd .. Niles. 683-2888 share expenses. Call Tom 1247. Mike
IMPOSSIBLE group called CULT­cool vapor humidifiers by Gerber.Six BUSTERS. Call1291 to apply. Moonies FOR SALE: HUMIDIFIERS, compact 
Bus to Trumbull and Mahonlng Counties Ride needed to Tampa, Fla. Beware! Yes, Dave Ellison--even Tom Hamel 
month $13.00. 
on Dec. 21. Interested? Call Karl at 6726 --Can leave on Dec. 19th, 20th, or 21st. guarantee. Call John finally got the Blues. 
3588. 

or Mark 1870 by Friday night. --Willing to share driving and expenses. 
Mike Duggan,
--Please call Tony at 3459. It was a gig--thanks to all who helped
3 WHO tickets for sale. Call 1824. Thanks a lot for Saturday night Let's with Midwest Blues 1979--MJWSign up for Bus to Wash., D.C. Wed. and do it again sometime. 
Thurs. 7-9 P.M. 2nd Floor Lafortune. I desperately need ride to Indianapolis 
PB Air Mary
weekend of Dec. 7-9. Leave Friday or For Sale-68 Impala, V-8, PS, As always the boyz and girts came 
Very clean. $550.00. Ph. 233-2395 after through. Thanks--MJWMorrissey Loan Fund Saturday. Will pay handsomely. Call 
5:00. If you like seven and sevens, chompin'Last day to apply for loans before X-mas John, 8653. kernels and ice , get into Birch beer and 
Here's to 10:20 am 11/23/79 Washington
l:neak is Dec. 12. $2()-$200. One percent 
Sony TC-558 Real to real. Auto reverse rainbows, seen Clockwork orange O'!Ce or 
interest. M-F. 11:30-12:30. Need riders to central PA area or and Wabash! Congratulations Mary
tapa deck. Three motors, six heads, and twice. If you like pornographic snow­Ellen and Mike.
Pittsburgh or Philly. I'm leaving early many other features. Two sure 589-S flakes got over 200 points midnight
PROFESSIONAL TYPING. Quick 1 day morning Thurs. 2o--call Tom at 1189 if Love,
mlcs included. Must sell. Call Gene at tonight, Grand piano got a couple of 
the gang

service. Will pick up and deliver. Call you need a ride. 
1743 or 288-7387. joints.
Jan 282-1805 or 684·1414. Need ride to Mercede, California, for Dear 10633 South California: 
For Sale: 1 Student season basketball To all Nazz staff and performers: Dinner Thanks for the warm hom, warm hearts,
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. Christmas. Will share expenses. Call ticket, padded seat. Call Greg, 3662. in the basement of Lewis [5:30] Saturday, and warm turkey.
Mrs. Burnore. Near Campus. 272-3134. 7934. 
Dec. 8th. Call Mary [7809] before Dan Like new -4 shelf bookcase • dark wood Thursday so she knows who Is coming
Will do typing -Heasonable -Neat -Rides needed to Friday's Dead Concert in 
tone (press board) $15.00. Call 7062 BYO refreshments. 
Accurate. Call 287-5162. Indianapolis. Share expenses and 1 free Is it true that Donna Shannon wears
Theresa. 
mistletoe on her head?

ticket. Call Rick 1048. 
"Borrowed" one telephone receiver
Typing. IBM Selectric. Call 277-0296. Second hand beginners drafting table. 
(black) from Holy Cross, Friday. Great EAH
DESPERATE for ride to Ann Arbor Dec. Call 232-4462 after 5:30. 
sentimental value. If you have any I owe you one.
Alterations for men and women's clo­8. Will share $. Call Donna 13564. Happy belated 20tti!!
information please call 4-1-4953. If no
'72 Nova VB, P.S., P.B., A/C, New Tires. JAF
thing. Call 255-6275. 
n ,,.a.JlSwer. you know why!
I have room, riders to KANSAS CITY, Engine in Excellent condition. $1050 or ' For anyone Interested in working on the Christmas. Dave 3637. 
B.O. Mike 13770. Beth,
Terrence Patrick, Happy (belated) Birthday.
Reagal\ campaign for the mock Hope your "19th" is "like ~omething
Republican convention, please call Brian Need a ride to Rochester, N.Y. for For Sale: out of a Norman Rockwell painting." Love, at 3185 or 3166, Greg at 272-m3 or 
Christmas break. Call Barbara ----13 Watt/channel Technics receiver-­Mom, Dad, Kate, Bob, Steve, Sam
Love always,

234-7220. $80! Call Scoop at 1771.
Mary at 7895. 
Keek 

Lee Ann, Need member of N.D.-S.M.C. Commun­HOLIDAY SALE! $25 worth of free books Whatdoyasay we give it a whirl, huh?!
Thanks Jeff and Lisa for the wonderful
ity to drive new car to Seattle Washington to first place winner plus 2nd and 3rd Love ya, Rick
surprise party ya planned!! Thank you
and return in 1979 car after Christmas prizes. Also many gift items: books,
Lost&Found 
everyone who came and helped make my
Break. Call 232-0453. book sets, calendars, and games. Special Brian Campbell-­
birthday a very special one. I'm really
sales throughout the season. Visit If you don't tell mom about me, I won't
Found: Contact tens in case. Call 6635. lucky to have such great friends!
Need ride to Philadelphia, New Jersey PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 South Bend Love tell dad about you! Found: Before break In LaFortune. area for Christmas break. Wilt help with Ave., Near Eddy. "Your sister"
Sue A.

gas$. --Dan 1502. P.S. Why did someone prank our phone
Small sliver pan with the Initial "B" 
(Odla)

For sate--American airlines 50 percent with your name?
attached by asmall chain. Lost and found 
-Adm. Building. Needed: Ride to and from Lansing/MSU coupon good through December 15. Best Hey Sharpy!
area the weekend of Dec. 7-9. Please call offer. Ph. 255-2223. Beth,
Thanks for Sat. night. even though you
Maria at 277-3077. Happy (belated) 20th!! What's it feel like
Lost: N.D. class ring. White gold with were 29 minutes and 5seconds late!! The 
to leave the whacky world of teens and
blue stone. Initials G.J.A. Call Greg 
rest of the evening made up for it.
Need ride to D.C. area or Norfolk area for become a sophisticated Woman?
1149. 
Tickets
break. Richmond would be perfect. Gina Yc.ur adorable roommate Lost: C-3 parking lot, Tuesday before Share usual. Call Steve at 3047. 
Bleacher season basketball package. For Dan, 
Anyone Interested In taking a chartered
Thanksgiving break. Stocking hat, sale. Best offer. 6789. Your physics review session was the bus to the Warren, Youngstown, OH.
hand-knitted, brown, loose-fitting. Re­Part-time bartender wanted. Minimum best. Never knew experiments on elastic 
ward offered. Call 289-5964. wage to start. Hours flexible. 289-4709. area for X-mas braak, call Mark 1870 or
collisions and frictionless surfaces could
Jim. Carl 6726 by Dec. 10.
be so entertaining! By the way, do you
Personals
Lost clothes on hangers behind Zahm have office hours? 
Hall. Call Rick at 288-2023. WSN Dis looking for an Assistant General Sara K.-­Manager for Public Relations. This is a Now that we are both crippled (your
CAGE THE TEST ANXIETY MONSTER! 
ankle and my knee) maybe we can get a
Lost: One Navy Blue, Down parka. If you paid position. Call 7425 between 2-4 pm Scared about taking finals? Do you Michele,have any ideas of its whereabouts, please for details. freeze before taking your tests? On I LOVE YOU. couple of wheelchairs and have races 
around the quad (or the bars!)
call 8502. Saturday, December 8th from 1:00-4:00 Angelique
Need ride to OMAHA for Break. Please Seriously, thanks a tot for the great time
in the SMC Clubhouse Mary Theis from
call Jim at 3082. on Saturday night. I hope it just the first
Lost-Green backpack filled with semes­the Counseling and Career Development Section 106 IS Notre Dame. Who is of many great times to come. You madeter's books and notes, and Important Center will help you learn to relax and Everybody else?
WANTED: MALE OR FEMALE HOUSE· my 22nd a wonderful time.
term paper. I am lost without It take those tests more easily! Bring
MATE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS* $40 per Love,
Reward! Call Stove 8298 or 8200 if no blankets and pillows for comfort and sign Attention Observer Staff;
MONTH. CALL MARCIA. 288-2095. Mr. Bill
answer. Last seen in Badin laundry. up in the CCDC by Thursday, Dec. 6. There are many "old" Observer checks Come on Saturday and let's cage that which haven't been picked up. All these Lost: one pair of orange, white and blue Need Ride: TEST ANXIETY MONSTER! checks will be voided by Friday at 4:30
To Bloomington, IN or Rochester NY
ski gloves. 277-3'182. p.m. No exceptions! All you have to do Is
after Dec. 18. 

Dn Thursday, Dec. 6 the Plastic Hymie ask Ceil. Need money for Christmas? Undergrad­to ND from Bloomington, IN Jan. 14.
Lost at the Clemson football game, Band opens its long-awaited 1979 tour Tile Management uates wanted for two short-term research
Call Jim 1539.

Section 30. A thick knit, creme colored, featuring the high energy sounds which projects. Both tasks deal with assessing right handed mitten. If found, please call made it famous, It promises to be a Anyone Interested In llll'klltg on John student opinions.
t need a ride to the Who concert in
Becky, 41-5779. happening. Be there at 9:00. Fat Wally's Anderson's presidential campaign for the Involves 2 112 hours work and can be
Chicago 12/8. If you have room, please Mock Convention, call Lmy-1049. completed In just one day. Also, can begive me a call at 8382. Ask for Mike.
Lost: Small gold star with a diamond in TEST ANXIETY MONSTER ESCAPES arranged to fit your schedul. Pay totals the middle. It Is a necklace charm. If ---------------~~ AND RUNS WILD ON SMC/ND CAM· Katie MeG: $10.60. found, please call 7966. Need one female roommate to share PUSES! Will you study with me this weekend? Contact Bob at ext. 3886 or 277-39113 
Campus View apt. Call Tina at 277-5261. It might be more fun than talking about for scheduling. 
CAGE THAT TEST ANXIETY your favorite crackers. Smi Ie. MONSTER! TMR 

Defense helps Irish defeat Belles 
by Kelly Sullivan Sports Wn'ter 
lnrense defensive play and consistent ball shooring by Notre Dame helped the Irish' women's basketball ream hand­ily defeat Saint Mary's 81-45 last night at Angela Athletic Facilitv. It was Notre Dame's third ~in in as many tries. 
The Belles grabbed the early le<Jd in the game only to have the Irish knot it up at 10-10. 
Jane Politiski's jump shot gave the Irish a 12-10 lead that they never relinquished. Midway through the first half, Notre Dame outscored their oppo­nents 18-5 and built a 36-17 halftime lead that was never challenged by the Belles. 

Shari Matvey, a freshman from Youngstown, Ohio, led all scorers with a 22 point effort for the Irish. Freshman Anne Armstrong paced the Belles with 13 points. 
Notre Dame's superior height was an obvious factor in the game. The Irish outrebounded the Belles 41-3 3. Sharon Petro, Irish head c·oach, also felt that turnovers would play a decisive role. "We've had problems with turnovers, but we kept them down tonight. We were com.erned about their full court pressure but we handled it very well." 
Petro was pleased with the play of freshmen, Matvey and Jan Crowe, who scored 10 points for the Irish. Other 
To meet Thursday 

Students resurrect ski club 
Happiness is a blizzard leaving a four-foot blanket of sRow ... if you're a member of the Ski Club. The new Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Ski Club (not to be confused with the ski team) has been defunct for several years, but a group of students are trying to miriate a resurrectiOn. 
The Ski Club will offer group transportation to nearby ski resorts with group discount rates in lift ticket, rental equip­ment, and group lessons. Future plans include weekend trips to different resorts, but the early emphasis will be on day-long trips. 
The first meeting of the 1979-80 Ski Club will be this Thursday, Dec. 6, at 7 p.m. in the little theatre in LaFortune Student Center. All interested students are encouraged to attend. Limited seatmg on future trips is available on a first-come, first-serve basis. 

Memberships fees of $5 will 
. be collected to defray expenses from trips, ski movies, and advertisements. The best snow is the first run full, so sign up now for a winter of fun and friendship. Any further ques­tions should be directed to Christopher Riguax, 283-3414. 
Notre Dame players finishing in double figures were Maggie Lally with 15 points, and Polit­iski and Mollv Cashman with 10 points each. ' 
' 'I set two goals for each game," explained Petro. "The first one is to win. The second is to play everyone. Tonight, we did both." 
Saint Mary's coach Jerry Dal­lessio felt that Notre Dame's defense was responsible for the Belles' loss. ''Normally we shoot much better. But shoor­ing is dicrated by the defense, 
and  their  defense  did  a  real  
good job."  
"They  didn't  do  anything  I  

didn't expect. They are well coached. We played much better than the score indicated. I'm pleased with our team's effort -everyone gave 100 percent. But when you're playing against that kind of height,. you have to shoot the ball well. They were hot and we were cold," explained the sec­ond year mentor . 
Notre Dame's next opponent is Michigan. The game is scheduled for 2:00PM Saturday in the ACC. Saine Mary's plays Franklin College in the Goshen Roundball Classic Friday at 8:00PM. 
Wednesday, December 5, 1979 -page 12 

AP writers se_lect All-America squad 
(AP) -Charles White of Southern California, who led the nation in rushing and all-purpose rushing en route to becoming the second leading ground-gainer in college foot­ball history, was named to the: Associated Press All-America team for the second year in a row Tuesday along with six other repeaters from 1978. 
Joining White, the 1979 Heisman Trophy winner, on the AP All-America team for the second year in a row are Oklahoma running back Billy Sims, the 1978 Heisman winner and 1979 runner-up, and North Carolina State center Jim Rit­cher, winner of the 1979 Out­land Trophy as the nation's best interior lineman. 
The other repeaters from 1978 are defensive end Hugh Green of Pittsburgh and defen­sive backs Kenny Easley of 
Roadsplits satisfy ailing Irish 
Splits ... 

Bowlers hate them, cheerleaders avoid them bur I'II eat a hundred "f them--heavy on the bananas. please. 
See, it all depends on who you talk to and what kind of split you're talking about. Hockey players, for instance. Now they're not supposed w say this, but a split on the road (that's winning one and losing one) makes everyone 
happy. . h . . . . w· .
Espeually w en you re VISiting 1sconsm. · Now, I must admit, I've never had the pleasure (?) of seeing downtown Madison, but I understand the climate is none too friendly for invading WCHA teams. Take Notre Dame, for instance. They've played in the Badgers' Dane Counry Coliseum 24 times and have a 4-20 record to show for their efforts. 
Bllt last Saturday, when they needed a win after lo'>tng, 5-2, to the Badgers the night before. Last Saturday when the Irish roster read like· a shooting script for The Ben Casey Show wah center Dave Poulin, and wingers Kevin Humphreys and Dan Collard (to name but a few) ,jddinul wirh injuries. Last Saturday the Notre Dame hockey team put it all together and beat Wisconsin 4-3 at Wisconsin to 'split' the series. 
The almightly split. .. Sweep at horne, split on the road--that's what every college hockey team pravs for (hut they won't admit that either). 
The funny thing though. about this hockey rc-arn I'> that they win more on the road than they do at home. The punch line? They're 5-l on the road and 3-4 at home. Why isn't Lefty laughing? 
Will1he man who coined the rerm "home ice 
Frank La,Grotta 


advantage'' please stand up? I thought so ... he's afra1d someone's gonna throw a puck at him. 
There just isn't any home ice advantage for this team," states Greg Meridith who serves as captain for this year's squad. "It seems that on the road we come together as a team. We take a lot of abuse from hostile crowds and that makes everyone pull together." 
But at home, Greg? What about home sweet home? 
"I don't know for sure but I think a lot of guys get nervous before a home game," .he conjec­tures. "Everyone wants to do well m front of friends and family and that causes tension." 
And tension causes mistakes. Mistakes this hockey team isn't supposed to be making. But Meridith claims the situation is actually brighter that their fifth place standing in the WCHA leads one to believe. 
"I know it sounds like an excuse," Meridith smiles slyly, " bur we have been hampered very seriously by injuries co key people. You just don· t lose a player 'like Dave Poulin (last season· s leading scorer) and not get hurt by it. 
[continued on page 9] 

UCLA and Johnnie Johnson of Texas. In addition, Oklahoma linebacker George Cumby, a first-team selection in 1977 but an also-ran last year, made the first team again. 
Green and Easley are juniors and have a shot at becoming three-time first-team All-Amer­ica selections next year. 
Joining White and Sims in the offensive backfield are Marc Wilson, Brigham Young's record-setting quarterback, and George Rogers of South Caro­lina, the nation's No.2 rusher. 
Junior Miller of Nebraska is the tight end while Ken Marge­rum of Stanford is the wide receiver. The interior line consists of Ritcher, tackles Jim Bunch of Alabama and Greg Kolenda of Arkansas and guards Brad Budde of Southern Cal and Ken Fritz ofOhio State. 
The rest of the defensive unit consists of end ] acob Green of Texas A&M, tackles Steve Mc­Michael of Texas and Jim 
Stuckey of Clemson, middle guard Ron Simmons of Florida State, linebackers Ron Simp­kins of Michigan and Mike Singletary of Baylor and deep back Mark Haynes of Colorado. 
Besides Hugh Green and Easley, other juniors are Margerum, Rogers, Simmons and Sin.gletary. The others all are semors. 
The AP All-America team will be featured on the Bob Hope Merry All Star Christmas Special on NBC-TV, Thursday, Dec. 13, from 9-10 p.m., EST. 
White, who missed one en­tire game and half of another with a shoulder injury, carried 293 times for 1,803 yards -his per game average of 180.3 was a Pacific-10 Conference record and scored 18 touchdowns. 
Complete team listings -page 11 
Rogers was the runner-up with 1,548 yards on 286 carries for a 140.7 per-game average while Sims finished fourth with I, 506 yards on 224 rushes and led the nation in scoring with 22 touchdcwns. 
Wilson, one of a hannfu1 of collegians to pass for 7,000 career yards, completed 250 of 427 attempts this season for 3,720 yards and 29 touchdowns. He lost 140 yards rushing but still was the national total offense leader with 3,580 yards. 
Margerum caught 41 passes­he missed one game-for 733 yards and 10 touchdowns while Miller, an outstanding blocker, caught 21 passes for a whop­ping 409 yards and seven touchdowns in Nebraska's ground-orientated attack. 
Sports Briefs _ __, 
Women's crew to organize 
All varsity and novice members of the women's crew team are asked to attend an organizational meeting this Thursday, Dec. 6. at 7 p.m. on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center (Room 2-D). For information, call Teri Hintz (4-1-4968) or Jane Wagner (6797). 






