-~----­
A Talking Head look-page 7
I I I 

VOL. XIV, NO. 124 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, APRIL 30, 1979 

Judge rules against Danehy in lawrsuit 
by Mike Shields News Editor 

Ruling that Notre Dame ''has a uniform policy for ending its contracts but has no uniform policy regarding retirement,'' Starke County Circuit Court Judge Marvin McLaughlin has upheld the Universiry's right to retire professors as they reach the age of 65. 
James P. Danehy, professor emeritus of Chemistry, filed suit after the University forced him to retire from teaching when he turned 6 5 in 1977. He charged that the University's retirement policl is "arbitrary" because severa faculty mem­bers continued in full-ume em­ployment of the Universiry after reaching the age of 65. 
McLaughlin based his decision on the contract between profes­sors and the University, the terms of which are outlined in the Faculty Handbook. Section 10 of the handbook reads, "A member of the faculty ordinari­ly retires and becomes emeritus on the first day of July following his sixty-fifth birthday .... When a member is permitted to continue in active service be­yond the date prescribed for retirement, service beyond that date will be on the basis of a year-to-year appointment, and a member will retire at the end of any service year unless he is re-appointed for another year.'' McLaughlin ruled in James 
P. Danehy vs University of Notre Dame du Lac that ''this contract of tenure expired on July 1, 1977." He also held that ''after expiration of a tenure contract the Defendant {Notre Dame) may again con­tract with the previously ten­ured employee or it may con­tract with anyone else. No state or Federal Constitutional Rights of Plaintiff (Danehy) was violated by Defendant." 
McLaughlin also charged court costs to Danehy. 
Danehy said yesterday that he was not very disappointed "because I've been expecting this for a long time and I' vt· accomplished what-I set out to do.'' He said he would decide whether to appeal the decision after consulting his attorne. Paul Kusbach. 
He said he has spent $4,000 on his suit so far, money "out of pocket because there is nothing coming in." He added that ~ppeals are much more expen­Sive, and can cost tens of thousands of dollars. He said that the hopes for support from an organization such as the American Civil Liberties Union or the American Association of Retired Persons should he de­cide to appeal the decision. 
University Counsel Phillip Faccenda expressed satisfac­tion with the decision. He said the decision "could not be more final. He gave the plaintiff nothing and made him pay the court costs." 



Steelhauling Teamsters end strike 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Steel­hauling Teamsters voted yes­terday to end a month-long strike only two days after shouting down union officials who ordered a return to work. 
Strike leaders said the shut­down probably would end early this week throughout the East· ern states, where the strike forced the layoff of some 6,000 mill workers because steel ship­ments were bottled up. 
"They really don't want to go back to work,'' said Mel Pack­er, organizer for the dissident Teamsters for a Democratic Union. 
But, he said, the members of Local 800 voted 175-149 to end the strike because of eroding unity among the strikers. 
''They realize they could no longer hold down a significant portion of the industry,'' said Packer. 
"Call it realiry," he added. 
After Teamstersfreight haul­ers ended a 10-day walkout on April 10, steel haulers defied a back-to-work order, demandin~ a separate vote on their provi­sions in the proposed master freight agreement. 
They also complained that key points of the proposed contract msut be approved by the Interstate Commerce Com­mJssJon. 
But support for the shutdown dwindled as more individual contract settlements were reached with the SO members of teh National Steel Carriers As­sociation, lone holdout among four major employer bargaining groups. 
"We've won a lot of things. But we haven't won the sep­arate vote,'' said union member Frank Stewart. 
The drivers were encouraged not to abandon their fight for separate voting rights, but to apply pressure within the union for a change in balloting rules. 
Last Friday, officials of the Teamsters international union were booed and shouted down at a meeting in Pittsburgh after urging a halt to the strike. But resistance ebbed over the weekend. 
Members ofsteel-hauling Lo­cal 92 in Canton, Ohio, voted Sunday to end the strike if holdout companies signed the agreement and agreed to give them six days' retroactive sick pay. 
Charles Carelli, secretary­treasurer of Pittsburgh-based Local 800, said work would not resume immediately with about 10 Pittsburgh-area National full operation today. In De­
Steel Carriers members who troit, Cleveland, Canton (Ohio) had not settled as of yesterday. and Erie (Pa.) they don't think But Carelli predicted quick they're going to be able to hold agreements once other trucks up past today,'' a strike leader started rolling. sa1d. 
Just before they voted, the drivers heard that other strikers Local 800 includes freight were headed back to work. haulers who also have stayed 
"In Gary (Ind.) they'll be in off the job. 
Additional spaces made 

in five halls 
by Tom Hay 
In an effort to furnish more on-campus housing next fall, five residence· halls are provid­ing space for approximately 60 additional students, according to Edmund Price, director of University Housing. Although the move will allow more stu­dents to live on-campus, the extra students will contribute to the already crowded conditions in four of the five dorms affected. 
In Lewis Hall, plans are being made to convert the kitchenettes on each floor to double or triple-occupancy rooms. This will add eleven extra girls to the population of Lewis. 
Carroll, Holy Cross, Walsh, and Farley halls must house the balance of the extra students in existing room space. These dorms have been forced to ''temporarily'' accommodate overflow students during the past year. Price said that these "temporary" spaces would be included in the regular room picks this year to provide the needed extra beds for next fall. 
In Holy Cross Hall, double rooms were made into triples in order to absorb the additional students. "We took in about 30 more people than we should normally take," said Holy Cross Rector Fr. George Wiskirchen. ''I was told before that these were temporarily­enforced triples to be reverted back to doubles. It's onethingif it's on a temporary basis, but :mother if it's going to be permanent," he added. Fr. Wiskirchen said that he was out of town most of last week, and didn't know exactly how many extra students would be housed in Holy Cross next year. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, rector of Farley Hall, was upset with the overcrowding in her building, but she did not see the situation as permanent. ''My under­standing is that all this is 
[continued on page 3] 

Bomb blast injures three children 
TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -A bomb blast injured three children waiting for a school bus near here yesterday as the Israeli Cabinet met in Jerusalem and voted to reinstate the death penalty for terrorists convicted of "acts of mhuman cruelty." 
The three children were reported not seriously injured. One was treated for shock and the two others for minor shrapnel wounds, authorities said. 
In Beirut, Lebanon, the Palestine Liberation Organization said its guerrillas were responsible for the attack and contended that several Israeli soldiers were killed in the explosion. 
The bombing in Kfar Sava, eight miles northeast ofTel Aviv, was the latest in a wave of terror attacks against Israel aimed at disrupting the Israeli-Egyptian peace. 
Police are warning Israelis to be especially alert for attacks with the approach of Israel's 31st independence day celebrations Wednesday. 
In the Sinai Desert, meanwhile, Israeli and Egyptian generals met at Tassa, a United Nations post, for their first detailed discussion of the return of Sinai territory to 'Egyptian rule. The military leaders said they would use "good will and understanding'' to solve future prob­lems. 
The Israeli Cabinet's order that prosecutors s~oul~ again seek the death penalry for terrorist crrmes was a response to a bloody pre-dawn attack by seaborne PLO guerillas April 22. Four Israelis were killed, including a father and his daughter who were taken hostage.. Another girl in the same family was smothered to death by her mother as they hid in a closet. Two raiders were killed and two were captured. 
Israel last used the death penalry when it hanged Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann in 1962. 
---r----·---------~----------------------------------~--------------------------------~ 


News in brief 
Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 2 
Six chemical companies 
Abortions increase worldwide 

face Agent Orange suit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A The; Soviet Union, Japan and illegal or permitted only under survey by an international pop­Austna have among the highest very restricted circumstancesST. LOUIS (AP) -Nearly 300 suits ftled on behalf of ulation study group indicates abortion ~ates in the world, the such as to save the life of th~Vietnam veterans exposed to the toxic herbicide Agent that one in four pregnancies report satd. More than half of mother, the committee's survey Orange will be consolidated into one case to be heard in New · worldwide ends in abortion, all pregnancies in those coun­showed.
York. The suit asks that a $4.2 billion fund be set up by six according to a report released tries end in abortion, compared But the report said suchchemical companies that it claims made and sold the restrictions do not always holdyesterday. to about one in four in thedefoliant to the government, to compensate those injured by down abortion rates. It saidUnited States, India China
The report by the Population

the chemical and reimburse federal agencies for benefits there is at least one abortion for Sweden and Denmark: ' 
Crisis Committee estimated at

paid out. The companies named in the suit are Dow every five live births in Bel­least 40 million and perhaps as The committee explained the Chemical Co., Hercules Inc., Northwest Industries Inc., 
gium, Burma, Colombia, In­Diamond Shamrock Corp., Monsanto Co and North American many as 55 million legal and high rates in the Soviet Union donesia, the Philippines, Portu­Philips Corp. 
illegal abortions were per­and Japan by saying abortions gal and Taiwain, all of whichformed or induced last year and there not only are legal but the prohibit abortion under any cir­said ~he number appears to be two nations "share a heavy his­cumstances.

Average pay of US hourly 
growmg. torical reliance on abortion as a The study found there has''In most parts of the world, method of family planning due been ~ trend throughout thethe incidence of aborition is to the lack of oral contracep­world tn recent years to liber­exeected to grow as a result of tives, IUDs (intrauterine de­

workers falls in ranking 
alize abortion laws. It predicted wiaer preference for smaller vices) and voluntary steriliza­nations would continue to rely
families, lack of alternative tion.''

CLEVELAND (AP) -Hourly workers in the United States on the procedure as a form offamily planning services and an In most of Latin America and ·birth control because no perfectwho once earned the highest averase pay among their peers increase in the number of Africa, abortion is either strictly contraceptives are available.
anywhere in the world, have how sltd to ftfth place among 12 
women of childbearing age,"

high!~ industriali~ed nations, acco~di~g to a new study. 
the committee said.

Amencan execut1ves also are sltppmg lower in world 
The committee, a privately

comparisons of base salaries, the study shows. 
financed organization, reported a year ago that sterilization had become the rrincipal method of

Fines increase against 
birth contro in the world. Cynthia Green, one of the staff members who prepared

New York prison guards 
the latest report, satd there 
were 122 million live births last

ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) -Fines against the state's striking 
year and an unknown bur

prison guards umon topped $1 million yesterday, as 
relatively small number of

negotiators for both sides continued their efforts to settle the 
spontaneous abortions, or mis­

11-day-old walkout. Talks resumed shortly before noon 
carriages, which were not coun­

yesterday. Conditions were reported quiet within the 
ted in the panel's calculations. 

prisons, which were being manned by 11,000 National Guard troops and state police, and on the picket lines, where earlier there had been scattered incidents ofviolence. Fines against 
r-'Ihe Observer-

the union for violating no-strike court orders stood at $1.15 
million yesterday atternoon, with $100,000 being added 
Night Editor: FrankL.·

every eight hours. 
Kebe, Jr. Asst. Night Editor: Lynn Tyler

One of ~orthern Ireland's 
Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Editorial Layout: Rod Beard



provincial police killed 
Features Layout: Fra~k Browne ' BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP)-A part-time member of 
Sports Layout: Beth Northern Ireland's provincial police was shot and killed in an 
Huffman 

Typists: Kim Convey, Beth His death brings to 15 the number of British soldiers, Irish 
ambush yesterday while he was cycling to work, police said. 
Willard, Bz/1 Swift, Katie 
Brehl

prison guards and members of the Ulster Defense Regiment Early Morning Typist: Kim 
Convey 

who have been killed since. the Irish Republican Army 
launched a spring offensive this month. 
Day Editor: Kate Kzikuskie Ad Layout: joe Murphy Photographer: Mike Bigley 


Weather 
..... 
Tlie oa.iwr [USPSh• 1211 II

Partly sunny and cool Monday. Highs in the mid to upper 
publlsllld Momlly thrOqh Friday. h•

50s. Clear and cold Monday mght. Lows in the mid to upper 
cept.durlng ..m 1nd-v.aon plriOdl. 
The Observer Is publlllltd by tilt 
studllltl or Notre D•mt Dlf 'Siltlt 

30s. Sunny and a bit warmer Tuesday. Highs in the upprer 
50s to the low 60s. 
:~~~u:f::'is~: 
llf!lllterl from Jhe Observer. P.O: bal Q, Notre b11111, lndiiOI ·MI556. SI*ICI ·cf•u PGSila• Plitt; Notre Dlme;"-'IJto 

dllnl 4111&. . 
The Observer Ia 1 IM!nbtr If tilt ~teet: Prea. All laPf'Oduc1ioll Hglrtllre feseritd. 

3 pro--ADDRESS, ''freedom ~f the ptess,'' lyle denniston, nd law school, ND LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE 
3 pro--SOFTBALL, st. mary's vs grace college, BOLAND FIELD 


ATTENTION 

5:30 
pro--MEETING, french club, FACULTY DINING ROOM, SOUTH DINING HALL 

5:30 
pm--JR-SR BANQUET* SMC DINING HALL 



JUNIORS

--------------------· 

6 pm--MBA NIGHT, 241 MADELEVA HALL 
6:30 
pro--MEETING, student activity, LIB. AUD. for the position of 

6:30 
pro--WOMEN'S SPORTS AWARDS NIGHT, "excel­lence in athletics--what is it?" patsy neal, international Senior Arts speaker on women's sports, MONOGRAM ROOM, ACC, $2.50 (call 283-7185--debbie bolla) 


Festival Chairman 

7:30 pm--FILM, "let joy run supreme," WASHINGTON HALL, $1 
All interested juniors should SIGN THE LIST in the 

7:30 pro--LECTURE, cesar chavez, pres. united farm workers of america, sponsored by laraza and others, STEPAN Student Union -Interviews are being scheduled 
8:15 pro--CONCERT, notre dame univ. chorus, SACRED HEART 


The Observer Monday, April 30, 1979-page 3 

On tour ofthe Notre Dame campus, this couple keeps warm in home-made, hand-woven woof sweaters displaying the ''I'm Behind the lnsh" emblem. [photo by Mike Bigley] 


Students must pick up records or refunds 
Students who fail to pick up their records or refunds by 4:00 PM today at the Student Union Ticket Office will forfeit any claim to them. Unclaimed records will be packed up and shipped to the distributor on Tuesday. 
Walshe wins _fellowship 
Peter Walshe, professor of Government and International Studies, has been awarded a Walsh-Price Fellowship for Mission Study and Research. The Fellowship is funded by the Center for Mission Studies, Maryknoll, NY. Walshe will use the opportunity to continue his research on Christian oppo­sition to apartheid in South Africa. He will focus on the Christian Institute of Southern Africa, which was banned by the South African government in Ocrober 1977, and will be on sabbatical from .January to December 1980. On Apnl 21, 
Dr.  Walshe gave  the  keynote  
address  in  Detroit  at  the  
American  Friends  Service  

Committee's conference on "Investment in South Africa?" Other sponsors of the confer­ence included the United Methodist Church and · the United Automobile Workers. 
Make Senior trip deposits 
Due to An Tostal and difficul­cies concerning Friday's collec­tions, Senior Class Trip depos­its will be accepted tomorrow from II a.m. to 4 p.m. There are a limited number of open­ings left, but a waiting list will be compiled if necessary. This day marks the absolute dead­line for deposits. 
Defective albums should be returned to the ticket office on Monday or Tuesday of this week. They will be returned to the distributor for replacement. 
Students should be able to pick up their replacement albums on Tuesday, May 8. Refunds will be given if a replacement album ts not avail­able. The ticket office is open from 12:00 til 4:00 PM and is located on the second floor of Iafortune. 
Pick up S-ball schedules 
All interhall softball team captains should pick up their ram-out schedules any time today in the interhall office. Games will begin tonight. 
• • • Spaces 
[continued from page 1] temporary until the new women's dorm is built," she said. Price pointed out that some students became very attached to their temporary quarters. "When we put people into lounges in the towers and the Farley basement, some of them didn't want to leave," he said. Price said that there were no plans at this time to house students in the lounges of Grace or Flanner Halls. Thomas Mason, Vice Presi­dent of Business Affairs, said that the present situation is much better than it could have been if enough students had not decided to move off-campus. ''The system this year allowed the -problem to be identified early," he said. "We've avoided having a crisis, but that doesn't mean that we won't be crowded a little bit.'' 
Unseasonably cold w-eather, rain fail to datnpen An Tostal spirit 
by Beth Minarovich 
Unseasonably cold weather and rain failed to dampen spirits on campus as students at. both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's celebrated An Tostal. The four-day spring festival attracted record crowds for some events, although others were poorly attended. 
One of the highlights of the weekend came yesterday after­noon when "Chumps" edged the "Butchers" to win this year's Bookstore Basketball tournament. Chumps, led by Tom Sudkamp and Rusty Lisch, survived a field of 320 teams in the single elimination tourna­ment, beating the Bruce Flowers-led Butchers 19-21. A moderate crowd braved a cold rain to witness the game behind the ACC. 
Tim Tinker was crowned Mr. Campus Thursday night at Saint Mary's, overcoming runner-up Mike Natale for the title. The freshman from Carroll Hall demonstrated 41 different ways of whistling and performed the William Tell Overture on his cheeks in the campus talent contest.' Jim Brogan, a former An Tostal illuminary, returned to campus to serve as emcee for the event. 
Winning An Tostal's other ''glamour'' contest, Dom Yocius was named Ugly Man On Campus Saturday mght at the Irish Wake. The junior business major waged a cam­paign ou~ of Dillon and raised over I, 100 to eclipse the field of nearly 150 contenders. 
The penny-a-vote contest raised $2,363.64, all of which will be donated to Sr. Marita's Day School in South Bend. Alpha Phi Omega sponsored the contest this year. 
In an interesting sidelight, Fr. Daniel J enky, rector of Dillon, promised to shave his beard on the South Quad on Wednesday because of Yocius' victory. Jenky had promised that he would shave his beard if Yocius raised over $1,000. Members of Dillon Hall made door-to-door collections in the effort to push Y ocius over the top. 
Particularly hurt by the weather was the carnival held on the Stepan Center parking lot. The few people who braved the elements said the rides were "rickety but fun," but attendance was down so much Saturday night that the carnival closed for the night. Carnival Co-Chairman Bob Morin said, "Unfortunately, the weather ruined the carnival and that's where we counted on making the money.'' There were specu­lations the carnival may not return next year. 
Gentle Thursday was well­attended. The Frisbee demo was popular, and the daisy sale went off well. Fifty teams competed in the canoe races on Saint Mary's Lake Marion, with Humper and Y eows finally tri­umphing over Tom Schuler and Mike Donegan. 
According to Donna Noonan, chairman of Frivolous Friday, many events attracted ''a lot more paricipants than ever before." Popular events in­cluded carstuffing, which set a new record of 36 smashed bodies. In the keg toss, Lynn Stephens, an assistant profes­sor of philosophy, beat Bob Golic, last year's winner. The Treasure Hunt was won by Mark Sherry, who d~duced that the location was in a bush at the graveyard on the road to St. Mary's. 
John Callaway, co-chairman for Saturday, was very pleased with the day's events. He was extremely impressed by Mike Sexton, who won the obstacle course, only 15 minutes after a good showing in the 6-mile Road Run. Tom Soma won the 3-mile event with a time of 17:36. 
Badin kept up the Notre Dame tradiuon of winning the interhall 'football game, while North Quad won earthball for the third year in a row. 
Another popular event was Mud VoIIeybaII , won by the team captained by Martin Mai. Bill Katzenberger's team fin-­ished second. In the Chariot Race, Sorin outpaced St. Ed's for a victory. Spectators en­joyed watching the event until many of them became partici­pants by being thrown into the mud. 
Recess 101 was well attended as students relived their child­hood days with games of jump­rope, finger (and friend) paint­ing, and dodgeball. 
Due to the weather, Satur­day's "picnic" was hastily re­scheduled to North and South Dining Halls, but was a success nevertheless. Frisbees and the Blue: Grass band were allowed inside the North Dining Hall. 
Another returning success was the Irish Wake held Satur­day night in Stepan. During the band's breaks, the "audience" was impressed by the profes­sional frisbee freestylers who had showed their skills Thurs-
d s · M •
ay at atnt ary s. 
The weeke~1d ended Sunday with a final night at the Irish Pub. Paul Callahan, chairman of the An Tostal Committee, commented, "An Tostal went extremely well, even with the cold and the rain--people were enjoying themselves, and that's what An Tostal is all about." 







r----ruverary---1 
II Records •I 
I I 
1 South Bend's largest record II and tape Selection! I 
I r--------------~ I
1 1 $t.oo off! ! I 
•• L____<:?~P-'E____j I 
$1.00 off any album or tape wirh this coupon. Limit 1 
one per person. Now through May 7. Not good on
I cut-outs, imports or sale items. Coupon must be I
I presented before purchase is run§ into cash register I 
I •ND/SMC checks accepted for up to $20.00 11 over purchase amount I
• 18,000 albums and tapes in st')Ck!!'I • Couldn't get what you wanted from the II Student Union) We'll cash your refund I 
checks! 1 !I River City Records . I
I . ~0970 U.S. 31 North--3. miles north ofcampu:.J·· Open 10 .co 10, 7 days a week·-277-4242
I

---------------·­
The Observer Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 4 

Newly freed Ginzburg, family to live at Solzhenitsyn hom.e 

NEW YORK (AP)-Newly freed Soviet dissident Alexander Ginzburg said yes­terday that he and his family will go to live with exiled Soviet novelist Alexander Solzhenitsyn at the writer· s secluded 51-acre estate in the hills of southern Vermont. 
The move, confirmed by Solzhenitsyn' s secretary, will reunite two close associates who have been prominent leaders of the Soviet dissident movement. Solzhenitsyn, a Nobel Laureate, has been in exile himself since 1974. 
An interpreter translating for Ginzburg during a 70-minute interview with the Associated Press said the dissident would travel to Vermont tomorrow, and that Solzhenitsyn had in­vited Ginzburg and his family to ''live there, as if they were coming home.'' 
"I am a little tired of seeing four walls after prison--and now this. room," Ginzburg said laughingly. 
He was referring to his accomodations on the 37th floor of the United Nations Plaza Hotel, where he has stayed since being flown toNe\\< York Friday in an exchange of five Soviet dissidents for two Soviet spies convicted here. 
Two of the other dissidents, Mark Dymshits and Eduard Kuznetsov, were attending a rally on behalf of Soviet Jewry before_ flying to l~rael, where they wdl m·ake their homes. 
Georgi Vins, a Baptist pastor, attended morning church ser­vices in Washington with Pres­ident Carter. 
-The fifth dissident, Valentin Moroz of the Ukraine, was back here after attending a rally in his honor in Philadelphia late Saturday. 
Ginzburg, whose latest trial last summer drew international attention, is the most cele­brated of the freed dissidents. His conviction of "anti-Soviet agitation and propagnada'' was connected with his work mon­itoring human rights" provisions in the Helsinki accords. 
The leader of the Moscow group that monitored the accord, Yuri Orlov, is in prison in the Soviet Union. 
Ginzburg, 42, who has done three separate stints in Soviet prisort camps, was in an expan­sive mood as he sat overlooking Manhattan's skyline and talked about past struggles in the Soviet Union and a still uncharted future here. 
He appeared more robust than the day before, when, during a news conference, his fac~ appeared ghostly white. However, he dedined to dis­cuss his health other than to say he was suffering from an ulcer that had been "aggravated extremely'' during his latest confinement. 
He talked at length and in detail about his prison life, gesturing often, pomting, even drawing a picture of his work 

michQel & co. Hair Concepts Hair design for Men &Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care open late tues.-thurs. 8 pm 
No~h 1/2 mile east of notre dame 
18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 
South 20~1 E. Ireland at Ironwood 
291-1001 master cha visa 


SENIOR -ALUffiNI 
PICNIC Stepan b_y Center SATURDAY, mAY 5th 11 am-1 pm 
free beet 'n brauts for the class of '79 Working in a new city after graduation ? Notre DClme Alumni Clubs will helve information available to help you get settled 
' J 

place at a Soviet prison camp. He used two packs of cigarettes to illustrate the approximate size of the piece of fish he was fed each morning. 
Talk about his prison exper­ience did not se·em to dampen his spirits, though he said he, like other prisoners, began each day by dumping his excretions from a bucket kept in his cell. After breakfast, he said, he spent eight hours polishing · glass for chandeliers. 
He said he was not allowed to read anything written outside the Soviet Union or anything containing religious references. 
What kept him going? 
''Faith,'' he said. 
Religious faith? 
"Yes." 
Ginzburg practices the 

Russian Orthodox faith, but has taken the Jewish family name of his mother as a protest against Soviet anti-Semitism. 
As he did Saturday, he said that despite the harshness of his imprisonment, he would have chosen to stay in the Soviet Union if it were pgssible. 
"What can I say? It's my Although not finishing number one in the An Tostal Keg Toss, country. I love my country Bob Golic nevertheless made an impressive showing. [photo by regardless of its government." Mike Bigley] 
Vietnam: 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Four years ago today, Vietnam's commun­ists won their long war to unite North and South. Here is an appraisal of the path that battered nation has followed since then, andits prospects for: the future. 
An AP News Analysis by Denis D. Gra_y Associated Press Tr7nter 

BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) ­Vietnamese Premier Pham Van Dong promised to "constantly : 'llprove the life of the people" when he outlined a blueprint for his nation's future at a Com­munist Party congress in 1976. The next five years, he said, would pave the way for prosper­ity and bring "a civilized and happy life. '' 
At the time, many veteran observers of Vietnamese poli­tics, including some American diplomats who were decidedly not pro-Hanoi, believed post­war reconstruction would take precedence over military muscle-flexing. Vietnamese pragmatism, the observers pre­dicted, would keep Hanoi from leaning toward Moscow or Pe­king and perhaps, with an eye turned to the West, it would become the Yugoslavia of Asia. 
Today, four years after North Vietnam overpowered the South, the Hanoi regime is again at war. It has also become solidly lodged in the Kremlin fold. And only the most optimistic can say that, by the usual measures, its 50 million people have a better life. 
Vietnamese troops are lead­ing a costly, 4-month-old war in Cambodia and a sizable garri­son is based in Laos to help that nation fight diehard insurgents. At home, Vietnam is under a general mobilization pro­claimed during the month-long border war with China that broke out Feb. 17. 
Vietnam today has an esti­mated 1 million men under arms, the sixth-largest armed forced in the world. The fighting is bleeding resources from economic development in a nation that has one of the 


Today & Tomorrow 
world's lowest per-capita In­comes and where about 3 million people are believed unemployed. 
Its economic bible, the four­year plan due to end in 1980, has been all but scrapped, its final year goals having been cut sharply. 
Although the claims of refu­gees must be regarded with some skepticism, the recent crop of "boat people" express greater despatr about condi­tions in Vietnam than those who fled earlier. . 
"When some Saigon families are down to their last dong (the local currenc.y) t-hey buy poi-­son,'' said one recent escapee who fled to Thailand. 
Four years after Saigon-now Ho Chi Minh City -fell to the communists April 30, 1975, compromise with the new order seem~ impossible for many in the south. 
Ric~ rations were cut by abouti half when Vietnam laun­ched hs invasion of Cambodia last (41ristmas Day. Diplomats and refugees say black market priceS. for basic commodities have soared in Ho Chi Minh City. A former .nurse at the city's Nhan Dan Hospital said more and more children are suffering from malnutrition. She also said the lines of people waiting to sell blood, a tradi­tional practice among the poor, have been growing longer. 
Western diplomats based in Hanoi say there have been few dramatic changes_ in prices there. But they report a growing shortage of everyday Items, such as rice: bowls and other utensils, as well as of medicines which once were imported fn ,m China. 
Vietnan; ·:; policy-m<lkers can­not be totally blamed for the nation's economic woes. A widespread drought in 1977 was followed last year by one of the worst periods of flooding in recent history. Official statis­tics say about 3 million tons of rice were lost and some ana­lysts predict a deficit of 3 million to 4 million tons in food grains this year. 
It is also difficult to assign blame in the conflicts with China and Cambodia. 
Analysts say the anti-Soviet Chinese have reasons for trying to disrupt the development of their pro-Soviet neighbor. They also note that for more than a year before the Vietnamese mvasion of Cambodia, Cam­bodian troops had staged bloody raids into Vietnam. Vietnam also has been bur­dened with almost 200,000 ref­ugees who fled the repressive regime of ousted Cambodian Premier Pol Pot. 
Whatever the cause, Viet­nam's aging leadership of vet­eran revolutionaries has cho­sen, at least. for now, a policy of guns-over-nee. 
In 1977, Hanoi gave up its gradual approach to socialist transition tn southern Vietnam, speeding up its timetable by almost three years with the elimination of free enterprise. The move shattered the highly commercial Chinese community in southern Vietnam, leading to a large-scale exodus of ethnic Chinese. 
About half a million ethnic Chinese and Vietnamese have fled since 1975, stripping south­ern Vietnam of badly needed managers, technical experts, doctors and other highly trained individuals. 
Last year's border feud with China, which broke into open warfare two months ago, hafted about 70 Chinese-sponsored projects and cut off an esti­mated $300 million a year in aid from Peking. 
Still, reports from several international organizations in­dicate Vietnam has an abun­dance of resources and enough disciplined, educated people to give a. the potentia} for becoming a maJor economtc power u, Southeast Asia. 
''They 'have tremendous problems but its very difficult to say_ just where their breaking point lies," said one Western diplomat in Bangkok, who like others interviewed asked not to be identified. A second veteran Hanoi-watcher said, ''Too many rimes I've counted the Vietnamese down and out, only to see them come up again.'' 


The Observer Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 5 




•
Results of UMOC votmg 
Dom Yoclus 116.795 
Mike Casey 40 
Kevin Buckley 6
Mongo 16,224 
The 3 Farley Foxes 40 
Kay Manglesdorf 
6

Car.1pDell & Loughry 13,062 
The Girl In curlers... 
Gene Barru
35 
5

Joe Wheaton 8,254 
John Hagale 35 
Glenn Belvis 
5

"Bonnie Brehl 6,958 
Paul Rondino 
Sheila Blaha
35 
5

Dave Wagner 6,565 
Larry Puglia 33 
Diana Butterfield 
Aras Zlioba 5,689 
Mike Brennen 30 
Alice ostello . 5 5
Lisa C. 4,473 
Kelly Murnin 28 
H. Felicia from the West 
5

Frank Hopke 28
Ed Za'i':ski 3,357 
Mike Flynn 
5

Pablo inz 3,295 
Mary Ellen Cap 25 
Paul Gagnon 
5

Tom Acceta 3,217 
Frank Gristle 
Mary Beth Greene
25 
5

Brad Vossberg 3,054 
Gerry Del~ado 25 
Mego Hackett 
5

Tod Beatrice 2,452 
Gerhardt acobitz 
Dominic Jervis
25 
5

Tim Gaida 2,327 
Bob Gerth 25 
Donna Leary 
5

Kathy Juba 1,310 
Tom Hartzell 25 
Ann Lorenz 
5

Bill Neillst 1,269 
Carol Horning 25 
Tim Maggio 
5

Mo Cairoli 1,128 
Bruce Martin 25 
Pat & Bob 
5

Bart Cassidy 565 
Amy Murdock 25 
Andy Rauh 
5

Mike Glockner 434 
Kevin Norberg 25 
Mike Sexton 
5

Bill Gagnon 421 
Mark Richey 25 
John Stein 
5

Francine Reidy 397 
Don Zehnder 25 
Mary Weisenberg 
5

Tom Kluegel 351 
D.J. Gral 22 
Scott Zimmerman 
5

Slick Madonia 328 
Father Talarida 20 
DR EST 
5

Susan Tyrrel 16
Kell~Trlpuka 322 
Brian Crowley 4
' 

Jack Genovese 15
Joe ontror 293 
Goob 4 
Tom Hamil 270 
Dave Wuertz 15 
Rob Gagnon 3 
Jon Nolan 245 
Jeff Hawk 3
Phllber Ford 14 
Mark Hutton 2
Dou'liChristian 203 
Murra~ 14 
Andy McDonough 2
Jim urray Jr. 200 
Andy avelko 12 
, 
John Huevelman
Bruce Boivin 151 
Glenn Killoran 11 
1 

John Hutchins 1
Tom Marullo 150 
Tom Behney 10 
Emil Kovalchic
Nick Matich 140 
1

Erin Bohle 10 
Tom Lucio 1
Rick Donahue 106 
Bob Ca frey 10 
Joan McCurdy 1
Brian Byrne 100 
Ed Webber 10 
Carr'le Miller 1
Joan Fallon
Joe Ca~uto 100 
10 
Sundance Miller
Bill Fu ler 100 
Juco Gators 
l

10 
Chris Nlckele 1
Barb Lach 100 
Juco Janet Hank 
10 
Women's Crew . 1
Mike Hammerly 83 
Potsie Hows 
10 
Chris Russ 1
Dave LaBore 81 
Joe Hennessey 10 
Mary Beth Simons 1
Phil Vanderhoef 79 
Karen Hertz 10 
Carole Trybus 1
Paul Hurley 10
Karen Laci~ 73 
Chris Wheeler 1
Mike Segob ano 66 
Ed Kermit 
10 
Don Cleary 1
Jana Schutt 56 
Kevin Kragel 10 
Cathy Corrigan 1
Bill Burnes 50 
Marmaduke 10 
Tony Aquilino 1
Bob Clement 50 
Pete Pallas 10 
Julia Perry 1
Jim Fulvey 50 
Mark Palmer 10 
Father Mario Pedi 
1

J. Tldmarsh 50 
Don Swerhart 10 
Bro. Mark Cavanaugh 
1

Beth Willard 50 
Bro. Viator 10 
Edmund Garreau 46 
Tom Hemo Flliak 7 
Wildman Dave Welsh 45 
Hank LaForret 7 
The appointment of Dr. Har­vey A. Bender, professor of biology at Notre Dame, and his wife, Eileen, to the Danforth Associate Program has been announced by The Danforth Associate Program of"r Louis. The six-year terru will begin .June 1. 
The program offers •J?por­tunities for interdisciplmary and interinstitutional activities among faculty at three_~Jepense-
Nuclear protesters arrested at plant 
the program will include the first performance of a new setting of the 23rd Psalm for tenor soloist and brass by the Fr. Carl Hager. Fr. Patrick Maloney will be guest tenor soloist for the premiere. 
The pro~ram will close with the masstve ''Processional Entry" of Richard Strauss. Also featured on the concert will be two antiphonal choir pieces of Gabrieli presented much the same as in St. Mark's Cathedral of Venice where they were first performed in the late 16th century. 
The 16-piece brass group, directed by Fr. George Wiskirchen, will be augmented by four percussionists and Dennis Blubaugh on organ. There is no admission charge for the concert. 
POnERY SALE Aplil 30-ffiay 1 
9:00-4:00 O'Shag outside 
[2_
j ,, 

paid biennial conferences. Associates are also eligible to apply to a College Project Fund for support of team projects involving students and faculty, including area conferences on f'ducational issues. 
The goal of the nationwide program is to join colleagues in activities designed to encour­age effective teaching and to humanize teaching and learn­ing in the campus community. 
Other Notre Dame couples currently s~rving a~ _ass<?ciat~s or connnutng partlctpauon m 
the career-long program in­.dude Dr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Schlereth, Dr. and Mrs. Donald Costello and Dr. Mrs. Thomas 
S. Fern. Rev. James T. Burt­chaell, C. S.C., professor of 
theology and former provost, also is a member of the pro­gram. 
[AP]About 280 anti-nuclear acti­
vists were arrested· yesterday 
when they marched on the 
gates of a Colorado nuclear 
weapons plant. Elsewhere, the 
legacy ofThree Mile Island was 
dramatized with soaring bal­
loons, frightening figures and 
folk songs. 
Some 230 Colorado protes­
ters had trained for weeks in a 
plan to blockade three en­
trances to the Rocky Flats plant 
about 16 miles northwest of 
Denver, the nation's only pro­
ducer of plutonium "triggers" 
for nuclear weapons. 
About two dozen armed fed­
eral marshals and security 
guards from Rockwell Inter­
national greeted them and 70 
other protesters at the plant's 
east and west gate and at a 
railroad spur leading into the 
facility. 

Former Pentagon analyst 
Daniel Ellsberg was among 
those arrested at the railroad 
tracks -the same spot where he 
and 27 others were arre-;ted 
exactly a year ago yesterday . 
More than 200 persons were 
arrested at Rocky Flats last 
SJ?ring, and most were con­
victed and given suspended 
sentences. This year, officials 
said trespassers would be pros­
ecuted on federal charges. 
To the cheers of other dem­
onstrators across the road, the 
arrested protesters were loaded 
into a blue bus from the Denver 
County sheriff's department 
and taken to a makeshift book­
ing station at the U.S. Geologi­
cal Survey headquarters in 
Ensemble 
to present
concert 
The Notre Dame Brass Ensemble will present a concert tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Highlights of Lakewood, a Denver suburb, where magistrates were stand­ing by. 
The protesters, who split into three groups as they marched toward the plant following a prayer meetmg, were accom­panied by six attorneys who had volunteered their services. 
The confrontation was a mili­tant follow-up to a mass rally at the weapons plant the day before. 
On Saturday more than 10,000 demonstrators -three times as many as the organizers exP.ected -assembled in damp, chtlly weather to sing, hear speeches, and demand that the plant be shut down or converted to non-military use. 
Other anti-nuclear demon­strations over the weekend, given impetus by last month's near-catastrophe at the Three Mile Island reactor in Pennsyl­vania, were staged at a ski slope in Vermont and a farm in Arkansas, on the banks of the Hudson River in New York and on a Navajo reservation in New Mexico. 
As all this was going on, tour­ists were streaming by the Three Mile Island plant on the Susquehanna River, snapping pictures of the facility, now safely shut down. 
SUCAC holds tntervzews 
The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission is presently scheduling interviews for the positions of chairman of the Senior Arts Festival and chair­man of the Midwest Blues Festival. Interested persons should sign the list in th~ Student Union Office no later than Wednesday. 

Any JUNIOR on or off-campus interested in being on 
Senior Advisory Council 
Call Nick 1691, Mary 8037 Tom 1768 or Bob 234-434 7 between Mon and Fri 
~ ----~--­
Editorials 

The Danehy case; legality v.s. ethics 
Last Wednesday, the Starke County Circuit Court handed down its decision in the case of Professor James Danehy vs. the University of Notre Dame. Ruling in favor of the University, Judge Marvin McLaughlin stated that Notre Dame "has a uniform policy for ending its contracts," and thus, ''no state or federal constitutional rights of the plaintiff were violated by the defendant.'' However, McLaughlin also noted that the University presently lacks a uniform policy regarding the rehiring of professors whose contracts have been terminated. In our opinion, the University must adopt uniform standards for reh1ring professors over age 65. 
Under present University pohcy, the contract of a tenured professor automatically expires the first day of July, following his sixty-fifth birthday. After expiration ofa tenure contract, the University has the option of rehiring the previously tenured employee on a year-to-year basis. 
However, according to the court record, Notre Dame "has a sketchy procedure for rehiring after a~e 65," and "has no standards, requirements or prerequisites for determining who will be rehired." 
Of 81 persons reaching the age of 65 durin~ the period covered by the evidence presented in the tnal, 27 were rehired under one-year contracts for full-time service. No uniform standards were applied in determining who would be allowed to continue full-time teaching. 
Professor Danehy' s tenure contract expired on July 1, 1977. The University chose to terminate his employment, although mental or physical, nor any 'cause' was an element in the ending of Plaintiff's contract." 
While the University's present policy may stand upin a court oflaw, in our opinion, it is neither ethical nor equitable. Professors like Danehy have devoted many years of their lives to teaching at this University. Upon termination of their employment, they deserve a better explanation the questionable standard that they are simply too old to continue teaching effectively. The University may find this excuse convenient; we constder it illogical and unjust. 
Professor Danehy has spent thousands of dollars fighting the University's rettrement policy. Although his efforts have not won him personal victory, they have not been totally in vain, for they have exposed an arbitrary and discriminatory policy. 
We believe the University must examine its present retirement and rehiring practices, and replace them with more ethical and equitable policies. Professors over the age of 65 should have their contracts renewed or terminated on the grounds of their teaching ability, as evaluated by students and faculty members of their department. A, professor's age is not a valid standard by which to judge his effectiveness as a teacher, nor is it a legitimate or reasonable explanation for terminating his employment. 
ACTU4J.J.Y. MARK,YfJP. /AJ4RM, I DON'T 711/NI<51/NNY a4Y. JeS~7HE RNA/.. DEC/510N
I 
ON 7HifT Y8T.. 
I 
AsFARA5I 
'f(}(J nAN, 
I<JIOW, H$5 STIU.
HEH4YNOT 
fXJVF6?/?Jf.K7 WITH
OJMPETc 
HIS 70P AIJIISORS.
THIS rPM? 
I
I 
-----~ ---­
Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 6 


Christianity and the oppressed 
People should not stand alone 
We are happy to be members of the committee supporting Midwest farmworkers. We were asked to speak about the connection berween struggling in solidarity with those who touch the earth for us and being a Christian/ CatholicI believer.. 
We recalled this creation of a folksingerI poet friend: WHY DOES THE CHURCH HAVE A STBEPIE 
Why does the church have a steeple, Mommy? Why does the church have a steeple? 
So the people will know there's a church there, Christians live there. 
Is that the only way they know there's a church there, Mommy, That they see steeples? 
No, child, If people are kind and just and good others will know there's a church there, 
-

Christians live there.  
Then, Mommy, why does steeple?  th e church have a Juniper  

How great it would be if, by our lives, we really were a clear sign to all. How great if we gave unmistabkable witness to the ideals of Jesus. Happily there is much at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ofwhich to be proud. There are certain "rumors of angels." For example, many students reach out in service and love to local people who are hurting: the retarded, the sick, the blind, minority group members, and at times classmates in various needs and difficul­ties. Some students touch distant lands by foregoing Wednesday night dinner and donating to the World Hunger Coalition. Nestles has been boycotted for their unconscionable baby bottle campaign in Third World nations. Many students and alumnae or alumni are far away in Peru or Chile and on other missions trying to learn "and to serve. A grouP. of alumni staff a school for undocumented children in Houston. Many graduates faithfully try to face their daily responsibilities in a Christian way. For this and more, we can rejoice. 
Yet, we have miles i:o go before we sleep. The Christian always needs to keep asking hard officials speak of winning against them? Why won't Notre Daq~.e publish the investment portfolio, as other colleges have under pressure of "idealistic" students? Are African students here unreasonable in their distress over Univer­sity investments in their continent? Finally, why are there so few minority group members of the student body, faculty, coaching staffs, and other staff? 
On balance, Notre Dame seems to rate somewhat mixed reviews, which is not so bad when there's willingness to change for the better with God's help. We have benefited greatly from Notre Dame and are not ungrateful. This study experience has, in fact, taught us more dearly to ask hard questions. 
The Sunday after Easter at the Spanish Mission of Our J.ady of Guadalupe in Milford, Indiana, (near Nappanee), the small group of parishioners shared their thoughts about the readings of the day. One Mexican-American factory worker said: 
Sometimes I'm like doubting Thomas. I worry. I don't trust God enough. A few days ago I was talking to a man who belongs to the Amish religion. I told him that 1 am worried about the economy these days. He asked me, "What are you wom"ed about? WE'RE NOT ALONE. Don't they teach that in your religion too? Don't you count on each other?'' He made me think about how we should act. 
Of course that factory worker was right. We are supposed to help one another. We. should live like a family. We should be able to count on one another. It is Bible teaching that the Church passes on to us, The Old Testament prophet Isaiah (58:6-8) calls us "to let the oppressed go free ... share your bread with the hungry, and shelter the homeless poor.'' Also the First Letter of St. John in the New Testament says: 
Christ gave his lzfe for us. We too, then, ought to give our lives for the brothers and sisters. Ifa rich person sees his brother or sister in need, and yet doses his heart against them, how can he claim that he loves God? My chzldren, our love should not be just words and talk: it must be true love, which shows itself in action. 
(l)n3:16-18) Because you are a Christian, you help your brothers and sisters in need. Because you are a Christian, you care about 

questions of herself/himself. The questions the struggling farmworkers. may have the positive effect of constructive Because you are a Christian, you want triticism. Some hard questions: Why have the farmworkers to know they are nor alone. groundskeepers and other staff workers been · unsuccessful in their efforts to organize for Jack Martin collective bargaining, and why would University Jack O'Malley 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials Editor-in-chief .......Rosemary Mills Fearures Editor~ ......Chris Stewart represent the opinwn of a majority of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries. Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opimons and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ...... K. Connelly 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail· ExeLutive News Editor ....Mike Lewis Business Manager . . . ~Steve Odland newspaper published by students of able 10 all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the University of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varying News Editor .......... Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through leuers, is Saint Marv's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Ad~ertising Manager . . . . .Bob Rudv necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 
_The Observer_ 

,--------_------~-=-----_--------_----·-=--=--=~~ 
Features 
Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 7 
N.D.-M.B.A. Program in London by Joel 
The Notre Dame London MBA 
program may be the best international 
studies program in the country. After 
rwo years of experience and 29 
students completing the program, 
many employers and others are find­
ing out about this experience in 
international business studies. 
This past fall, I was a member of the 
second class of 19 students to go over 
to the land of Queen Elizabeth and 
Margaret Thatcher. The purpose of 
~his article is to describe that exper­
Ience. 
The three people who had the most 
to do with the success of the London 
program are Dr. John Malone, Dr. 
Thomas T. Murphy, both former 
Dean, and Brother Leo Ryan C.S. V., 
the current Dean. With foresight into 
the development of international busi­
ness and the value of exposure to other 
cultures, Malone and Murphy toyed 
with ideas of an international program 
for the ND graduate business school 
several years ago. They investigated a 
number of countries and options. 
Great Britain had an edge because its 
people speak nearly the same lan­
guage. However, all of us on the 
London program would probably attest 
that it might be easier to understand 
French or Norwegian· than English 
Cockney. 
After firming up their objectives, Brother Ryan, our Dean since 1975, approached the London Business School (LBS) director, David Norburn, and presented a proposal to run a separate program for Notre Dame MBA students. An agreement was made and Norburn personally took charge of selecting three other profes­sors to take part for at least the first year. Because of the first year success, the same professors repeated the second year. Except for one professor who is returning to business, all will teach another year in 1979. 
The Notre Dame MBA 
Notre Dame's MBA program is 11 years old. This year the graduating class is 97. The thrust of the MBA school is to provide a structured program with fundamentals in the quantitive area in the first year. In the second year, those principles are applied through a case orientation. 
There are several basic reasons for someone to choose Notre Dame's MBA school over another MBA school. 
Notre Dame itself has a lot of attraction--the physical layout, the athletic tradition, the tradition ofNotre 
Dame as a school of excellence. its religious environment and its strong alumni nerwork are good reasons to select Notre Dame. The academic program is solid and is improving yc;ar by year. The placement program wtth efforts by the Placement Bureau and the MBA students is very strong. This year, our class has done extremely well in securing job offers. The London Program 
The London program is unique in a number of ways. A few of the top American business schools have affil­iated programs with the London Business School, i.e., Harvard, Wharton, Chicago, Stanford and NYU. 
Our main advantage is that those schools send rwo students and this year we sent 19. It is also necessary for students to attend classes with the other British students. At first glance, that may seem favorable but we received more personal attention with the smaller class and it provided an atmosphere to enjoy the entire cultural and educational experience. The Thunderbird Business School in Glendale, Arizona has an international program but they do not have a formalized program with a foreign business school. 
Because of our independent pro­gram, Notre Dame has much more flexibility in selecting professors from the London Business School. After the great success of the first rwo years, the LBS professors have been pleased to sign on for another year. 
Purpose
The purpose of the London program is to develop a perspective on the world of business from a foreign viewpoint. another objective is com­paring business in Britain, another mdustrial country, with the U.S .. 
In addition to our business education, the cultural and social learning experience was significant. Having the opportunity to study another nation and its reople was an experience all of us wil appreciate. 
Structure 
The structure of the semester was different from the regular semesters at ND. Instead of havmg two classes a week per subject, we had one class to fit the busy schedules of rhe British professors. Three hours with one professor went by faster than you could imagine. It was more intense and required that everyone prepare for class. We also had the pleasure of ­taking a midmorning coffee break with Mrs. Bernadean Murphy, Professor Murphy's wife, serving the coffee and Engfish 9iscuits. 
Living inLondon 

Arriving in London in late August 
and finding an apartment or flat for 
four months is something every 
American should be required to do at 
least once. That experience was one of 
the most significant we had. Flats that 
are within a student's budget and 
close to our school at 552 King's Road 
in Chelsea are hard to find. Inciden­
tally, King's Road is the center in 
London for fashion and punk rockers 
(orange hair and all). 
I found a flat for Tom Costas,· 
Eduardo de Lascurain and myself 
through an estate agent. Because I 
wanted to leave for Norway three days 
later, I was in a rush. I saw a sign 
advertising an estate agent and made 
a call inquiring about flats for about 
$150 to 200 month. The reply was, 
how about S150 to $200 a week! We 
settled on a flat for $600 a month. The 
flat was a 20 minute bus ride to our 
school and about a five minute walk 
from Victoria train station. 
One of the interesting and different 
aspects of living in London was 
grocery shopr,ing. Every Monday 
morning my ' flatmates" and I would 
walk to our neighborhood shooping 
area. We would stop at the butcher 
shop and pick out chicken and possibly 
some New Zealand lambchops. Then 
we would head for a smaller sized 
supermarket for basic staples. The 
next stop would be the bakery and the 
last stop would be the vegetable stand 
where we would buy fresh vegetables 
which came from southern Europe. 
Expectations 

My own expectations of the London 
program were high. I wanted to have 
extensive exposure to international 
business and by living in another 
country gain a deep appreciation for 
the life styles and concerns of another 
country's peoples. 

My expectations were exceeded. The,professors were outstanding, the city of London was exciting and the other ND students were enjoyable. 
In terms of real benefit to me and 
the rest of the class, the short term 
outlook of getting a satisfying job 
when we graduate in May is bnght. 
Although the outlook is good for the 
MBA class, the London experience has 
turned out to be a major asset in the 
job seeking process. In the interviews, 
it is not uncommon to spend 5-10 
minutes talking about the time in 
London. The main advantage that I 
see is that I can bring a unique 
academic and personal background 
that will improve my contribution to a 
firm. 
In addition to the duties of director of the London program, Professor Mu_rphy t<Hight one of t_he fivt; class.~s enttrled ·'Social issues 10 Bus10ess. Although Murphy's expertise is in finance, the class was effective in identifying important issues that affect us all, i.e., discrimination, nuclear energy, false advertising, and world hunge. 
For example, a classmate of mine, Paul Wood, and I did a study of World Hunger and Multinational Business." We led a 3 hour discussion of some of the major issues facing all of us and presented some alternative solutions to the problems faced by businesses involveo in food production and dis­tribution. 
David Norburn, the LBS director, taught a course entitled ~'British Practicum in Industry." It gave us a great deal of experience in analyzing a business through financial analysis and identifying critical variables in developing corporate strategy. His qualifications are excellent with a background as a consultant with an American firm and as a top manager in a British firm. 
Stuart Slatter taught a class in International Business. He also worked in the United States and was the president or managing director ofa Brinsh firm at the age of 27. He trained us to use a framework in analyzing cases in international busi­ness. 
John Drew was the professor for a course on the Common Market or the European Economic Community (EEC). Drew was writing a book on the EEC as we were taking the coiurse. He personified British gentry and we learned the value of understanding various actions affecting the EEC. He was also an advisor to the House of Lords on the Common Market. 
Our fifth professor, John McGee, taught Macroeconomics. His approach was theoretical and very comprehensive. He received his Master's degree from the London School of Economics and his Doctorate from Stanford in California. 

~-------------------------------------~~------------------------------------------------------------­
A Talking Head Look At N.D. S Proportions 
Dan Bell Ron Havne.r fud Weiksner Mike Busk 
The weekly features column, The Talking Head, was nearly decapitated in a recent journalistic Snafu. Having tred where brave men dare not go, The Talking Heads--Mid~. Busk, Rone Haynes, and Jud 1¥'eiksner--were in­formed oftheir trespass. 
Since mercy flows like' honey at du Lac, they were spared the Observer guzllotine and allowed to continue publication. 
Therefore, the Features god resur­rects the comatose Talk10g Head column. Carry on wayward sons, and Sin no more. Amen. 
The Notre Dame community has been thrown into a frenzy over the passage of HEW's Title IX. This diabolical plot could spell the end of big-time!! college athletics for Notre Dame by shifting thousands of dollars from the men's athletic program to the women's. 
Once again, with the providential assistance of confidant and marathon runner Deep Ear, The Talking Head sticks its head out and into Umversity loopholes only to return with this amazing revelation: while Title IX 
requires proportionately equal 
amounts to be spent on both sexes, tt 
never says what that proportion must 
be. 
In a desperate attempt to solve the 
Tirle IX quagmire, Fr. Edmund P. 
O'Thori~ makes a pleading call to St. 
Mary's President Dr. John Dig-in.. 
"Doc, we've had a change 10 
enrollmen_r plans over here at du Lac. 
Do you thtok you could make room for 
some of our women as transfer stud­
dents?" 
"How many?" "About 1,700. They're very ador­able, but unfortunately they're very intelligent .'' 
"Yes, yes, we've read all about 
them in Notre Dame Magazine. I think 
they should be able to handle our 
curriculum. Why do you want to get 
rid of them anyway?....-There must be 
easier ways to solve the cheerleader 
quota problem.'' 
''Thts is serious. The university--! 
mean the football program--is in 
danger, unless we make drastic 
cutdowns on Notre Dame women." 
"Don't Notre Dame guys cut down 
Notre Dame women enou~h as it is? 
Besides, if you get rid-of all the women, what' II happen to the settltng effect they have .on the Notre Dame men?" 
''Most of the guys won't even notice they're gone. Eve~yone l.ooks the same in sweats. Bestdes, thtnk of the settling .~ffecr this will have on the old alumnt. 
"But won't the girls miss being around the guys?'' 
''No, they only saw the guys as distractions anyway. If they give you any trouble, just tell them to go to a state school.'' 
"We're always happy to get bright new students. But can. you throw in something else to sweeten the deal?'' 
"We can get someone to donate a mural for rour new library. How does Field Goa Mary grab you?'' 
"How about mcluding a pair of basketball season tickets?'' 
"You must be kidding. Are you an alumn~s who gave genero~~ly to the Campaign for Notre Dame? 
''No, just a basketball fan of the 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. l suppose that was a pretty ridiculous request on my part." 
''!'II tell you what. We 'II give you 
three groundskeepers (and a Team­
sters official to be named later) to help 
finish the Angela Athletic Facility." 
"It is finished ... " 
Fr. O'Thority and Dr. Dig-in could 
be working out such an agreement any 
day now to adjust the number of Notre I 
Dame women. Meanwhile, if the 
construction of the new women's 
dorms is delayed any longer, one 
might speculate that it's due to a 
problem wh\ch has gr.,wn out of ·proportion. 
The Talking Head 
Apologv 
The Features Ediror deeply mourns the incorrect pu~lication of.the al!-thor for last Thursday s Bullroanng arttcle. It was penned by Professor Norman, Girardot, not Bill Rivard. 


r-­
Monday, April 30, 1979-page 8
' Ihe Observer 
~--------·---~-~-~--­

British n1others like neither Tory leader nor Labor policy 
LONDON (AP) -Young running a low-key, ''why­A Marplan poll for the com­
British mothers say they do n ot change-a-good-thing'' cam­mercial television program 
like Conservative Party leader. paign, took the day off. "Weekend World" said the 
Margeret Thatcher's upper The mothers, who account for Tories were 13 percentage middle-class accent and aggres­7 million of Britain's 40 million points ahead in 100 key mar­sive manner, but they like the registered voters, favored giq.al seats in England that will Labor Party's socialist policies Labor by a margin of 55 percent­decide the election. In those even less, according to an to 45 percent in the last seats, 43 Laborites and 57 
opinion poll published yester­nationwide balloting five years Tories were elected in 1974 by day. ago. narrow margins ·of a few hun­
The poll indicated mothers Marplan said most of the dred votes. under the age of 45 -a group 1,017 women it questioned in 51 whose support some analysts of the 635 electoral districts consider vital to victory -will listed union pay demands as the vote for the Conservatives by a primary cause for a doubling of 
Honor society 
4-percentage-point margin over consumer prices during the Labor in national electons for a past five years of Labor Party new Parliament May 3. rule. 
names 19 
A Conservative victory would Most of the women also said 
make Mrs. Thatcher Britain's they believe that Tory plans to 
new members
first woman prime minister, yet cut taxes and scrap burden­the women polled by the some state controls will bring a Marplan organization ranked better life for their children, the 
Nineteen Dame
her third in the personal popu­poll reported. Notre ? td 
Saint Mary's students have
larity contest behind labor While all the major pollsters 
been named members of
Prime Minister James agree a Conservative victory is 
Omicron Delta Kappa, theCallagha:1 and David Steel, lltkely, the confusion over the .nat_ional leadership honorleader of the Liberals, the extent of that plurality contin­
SOCiety.
third-strongest party. The poll ues. 
Charter members are: Erin was published 10 the News of The Gallup poll has given the Boyle, Pat Bryski, Jerrythe World newspaper. Conservatives an 8 percentage­Castellini, Joe Cosgrove, Dave · On the campatgn trail yester­point lead over Labor, up by 2 Di Sabato, Don Doheny Jr.,
day, Mrs. Thatcher told a 1I 2 points from its previous Mary Beth Dvorak, Tim Healy,
suburban London gathering of prediction a week ago. Market Mike Kenney, Tom Leibowitz,
2.000 Conservative union mem­Opinion and Research Interna­Roman Macia, Dan McCurrie,
bers that "Britain is at a tional, however, gave the Greg Meredith, Richard Organ, 
turning point.'' Tories only a 3 percentage­Joe ~estic, Kevin Ryan, ) ean 
"Its people will choose either point margin, down from a 'thompson, Paul Valentino and to continue our lonely road predicted 6-point margin three Bill Wetterer. Nancy toward socialism and/overty or days ago. D' Antuono, professor of to turn again towar the free Research Services put the Modern and Classical Lan­world of the Western democra­Tory lead at 11 1I 2 percentage guages, is the faculty advisor. cies before it is too late,'' she points. A week ago the For information regarding said. organization showed the Con­elegibility, contact President 
Callaghan, who has been servatives leading by 21 I )ints. 
Roman Macia at 7018. 

SUMMER STORAGE 
MASTER MINI WAREHOUSES TWO LOCATIONS: US 31 AT MICH.STATE LINE 2034 US 31 -NILES 
----* 24-HOUR SECURITY*---­
Live in Caretaker • Fenced • Well Lighted 
683-1959 683-8505 684-6431 
WHAT? OBS~RV€R Q~Rty 
WHERE? 41USS€p€'S 
WHO? all OBS€RV€R. sta~ JnVJt€0 
' 
WHEN? sat may ; 
9:00pm--? 
ttanspottatlon will dellvet Obsetvetites 
BEER & PIZZA 
--· 
Police theorize on Chasteen case 
MOORESVILILE, Ind. (AP) -Camby, but then drove past 'the State police and Morgan State police theorized yesterday Camby turnoff and took them to County sheriffs police were at that a passing motorist disabled the wooded area at White. Lick the scene until about midnight Terry Lee Chasteen's car, of­Creek. Saturday, then another team of fered to drive her to work, then Mrs. Chasteen apparently 15 investigators returned early murdered her and her three was strangled, possibly with yesterday morning. children. the scarf on her supermarket 
Police· said ·there was noThe investigation of the slay­uniform which police found indication that Mrs. Chasteenings "is progessing," said Lt. knotted around her neck. 

had been robbed. Her purse

Merle McKinney. ''I'd better Investigators believed the chil­and a savings passboo\. vyithnot comment too much on it dren were held in the creek her name in it were found at the ··now We're pursuing some until they drowned. Results of scene.
leads and we don't want to an official autopsy are expected The victim was diW>r~d upset the apple cart." · to be released today. 
about two years ago, author­McKinney said Mrs. Chas­The slayings were ''very ities said, and her ex-husbandteen had a flat tire on Interstate brutal,'' said Allen. ''The is in the Navy in California. 

465 early Saturday morning. person who did this is an animal 
"We're theorizing someone as far as I'm concerned." "I guarantee you she will be 
stopped to help her and Misty Ann was found on the missed," said Donald Zalokar, 
changed the tire, then somehow creek bank a few yards from her manager of the store where 
disabled the car. We think mother, while the two boys Mrs. Chasteen worked for the 
whoever stopped there told her, were found about 300 yards past eight months. "She was a 
'Come on, I'll take you to work.' downstream in the water next very vibrant person. I wouldn't 
That was the only way she could to the bank, police s~id. trade her for anything.'' 
have gotten to where she was.'' 
Two unidentified mushroom 
hunters found the bodies of 
Mrs. Chasteen, 21, Indianap­
olis, her daughter, Misty Ann, 
CCUM offers institutes 
5, and her sons, Stephen, 4, 
and Mark, 2, about 2112 hours 
later in a heavily wooded area Notre Dame's Catholic courses that count toward a 
at White Lick Creek, some 10 Committee on Urban Ministry CCUM Certificate. 
miles from where the car was (CCUM) will offer two institutes Participants registered in 
left. on social justice and ministry Session I will be invited to 
Morgan County sheriff Rich­this summer, each presenting attend a meeting of national 
ard Allen said Mrs. Chasteen programs in three areas: church leaders to discuss 
was believed to have been theology of community, "Economic Justice and the 
taking the three children to an dimenstons of social ju~ice, Church." A between-sessions 
aunt's home in nearby Camby and global onnections. grant-writing workshop onJune 
before driving to her job at a The first -,ession will be held 30 will be open to all institute 
westside Indianapolis super­June 18-29 and the, second July participants. 
market. 2-13. . 
The flat tire apparently Beginning this ; summer, a Institute courses may be 
forced her onto the shoulder in CCUM certificate in social taken for academic credit, 
the southbound lane of 1-465 . justice may be ; earned by which usually can be applied 
The car was found abandoned completing certain studies in tow~rd graduate degree 
there later Saturday afternoon, the program as well as field­reqUirements. ·the flat tire in the trunk. work experience. Boston For further course 
Police theorized the passing College, Holy Names College of information and applications, 
driver took the woman and her Oakland, CA, John Carroll contact Helen Volkomener, 
r:hildren along 1-465 and onto University of Cfeveland, and executive director, CCUM, 
Indiana 67 on the way to Seattle "Qniversity also offer 1112 Memorial Library. 
'!:he Observer -Sports Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 9 
• • . Koegel 
• • • Notre Darners 
[continued from page 12] bitter pill to swallow. 
[continued from page 12] 
but McMenamin can be 


e still has the marvellous talent he was blessed "It took some adjustment on my part," 
McMenamin, who played the commended for her spirit and
ith. Is playing quarterback like riding a bike, remembers Koegel, "but I just concentrated on 
entire game with a broken desire to compete.
r can you forget how once you've learned? . practicing hard to improve my skills. When I got 
elbow. McMenamin waited Ryan emphasized her
The physical skills are just a small part of It. down, I would just talk to my friends." 
until after the match-up to have pleasure with the tourney after
oegel must regain his timing, be able to throw Dan Devine, who must choose between Kegel 
a cast placed on her arm so that us completion saying, "It went 
n the run, and a thousand other "little" things and Lisch as his number one quarterback, has 
she could compete in the finals. really well, the quality ofplay in 
·n order to be a successful quarterback. But nothing but good things to say about Koegel's 
An anonymous call to the general was much better than
hese things probably are like ridin~ a bike-­mental approach. 
Observer sports department last year's. There were a lot
oegel seems to be executing well dunng spring ''Tim's attitude has remained excellent,'' 
disclosed McMenamin's injury more evenly-matched teams
rills. says Devine. "The role of the backup 
as the caller expressed his because the talent of the
Whether or not Koegel will regain the quarterback is a little unique because he has to 
desires to nominate basketball players coming in is
onfidence--perhaps even arrogance is a better prepare himself thoroughly each week despite 
McMenamin for the "Iron much improved. The tourna­
ord--necessary to direct a football team against the possibility that he may not play at all. But 
Woman Award." Ryan voiced ment was highlighted by a
he likes of Michigan, Purdue and So':'thern Cal Tim has handled it very well." 
no knowledge of such an award, number of good games.''
emains to be seen. The trauma of gomg from a Devine also points out that scores of 
igh school celebrity to a college prep team outstandin~ college quarterbacks don't see uarterback could easily have lasting effects. much playmg time until they're juniors, includ­''When you first get here, it's toue;h,'' admits ing Paul MacDonald of Southern Cal. 
oegel. "You just don't have any 1dea of how So Tim Koegel is fighting--not only for the ood everybody else is, and how much you've number one spot on the depth chart, but also to ot to learn. It takes. a while to get used to it." vindicate his decision to come to Notre Dame. 
In many cases, frustration sets in. "With Joe Although he admits to a few second thoughts nd Rusty (Lisch) :established as the top two crossing his mind, Koegel still feels that he uarterbacks, :there really wasn't any time to made the right choice. , 
give anybody else muc~ work,'' Koeg~l ~x­"I guess I could have played for four years ifI lains. "Everybody's mam concern was gettmg would have gone somewhere else," says eady for the next opponent.'' . Koegel. ''But all along, I wanted to go to Notre 
For an 18-year-old who's used to havmg Dame. I wanted to prove myself against the college recruiters camped on his _doo~step, not best. If I hadn't tried, I wouldn't have been even bein able to et am le ractlce time was a satisfied with m self.'' 

Any ·3 J7.98 LP's only J14.50 Any 3 J8.98 LP's only J17.00 Double LP 's Specially priced too FIQnner Re·cords 4:00-5:00 pm 603 FIQnner Hours ffion-Thurs Phone 4256 6:30-8:00pm 
B-ball tickets go on sale 
tomorrow 
Tickets for the 1979-80 basketball season will go on sale tomorrow in the ACC. Students interested in purchas­ing tickets should report to the second floor ticket windows of the ACC during their specified times. Next year's seniors must report Tuesday, May I, juniors on Wednesday, May 2, Graduate and Law students on Thursday, May 3, and sopho­mores on friday. May 4. 
Issuing hours for the above days will be 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., including the noon hour. Students wishing to sit together musz.,r~rve their tickets con: • secutively. The ucket office wtll not accept any more than four student ID cards from one individual. 
NDwomen 
to present sports awards 
The Women's Sports Awards Night will be held today at 6:30 
p.m. in the Monogram Room of the ACC. All fen.,de athletes are reminded that they must contact either Astrid Hotvedt or their hall representative for their complimentary ticket if You can save a lot of and just two wasted trips I 
For a free booklet withthey plan ro attend. In addition gasoline-and a lot of a week can cost you more I I mor.e easy energy-saving
to the awards program, . the money-if you use the phone than $100 worth of gas I
evening will include a desert tips'; write "Energy," Box 62,
before you use your car. a year. I
buffet and guest-speaker Patsy I Oak' Ridge, TN 37830.
By calling ahead, you Saving energy is easier
Neal, who will speak on "Exce_l­lence in Athletics ... What ts can be sure the restaurant than you think, and with the l Name it?" The evening is being is open _.. the store has rising energy costs we're 
1 Address ---------­
sponsored for all women's what you want ... or the facing today, it's never : City ___________sports -varsity, club and inter­
friend you want to visit is been more important. So 
est groups. The Awards Night I State_____Zip ____
home-before you waste the next time you pick up I ,
is also open to the public at a cost of $2.50 per person. All time, gas and money on an your car keys and head for inte-rested rersons should con­unnecessary trip. On the the door, ask yourself : ENERGY. tact one o the following hall 
average, you waste about whether a phone call could We can't aHord 
representatives: 
a dollar's worth of gas on save you the trip-and
Badin Tracy Blake 
every unnecessary trip..,.... the wasted gas. to waste it.
Hreen-Phillips Patti DeCoste 
Farley Jane Ahern 
Lewis Donna Carini 
U S Department o1 Energy
Lyons Beth La Rocca 
Walsh Sue McGlinn 
·····•·•······•············•···········•······· ····························································~·············~ 

. --------·----·-···--···--------------­
The Observer -Sports Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 10 
... Irish 
[continuedfrom page 12] 
175 pound Marion, Ohio native explained. After inducing Tim Schiller to pop out, Ebert struck out Dave Strober on a wicked slider. He then gotJeffWhelan to hit a slow roller to Pullano at shortstop, but the wet infield turf slowed the ball down and Ricky's peg to first was a fraction late. An alert Hollstegge scored easily from second on the play to give Xavier their two-run margin. 
The Irish were not about to let this one slip form their 
The Daily Crossword 

© 1979 bv Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 4/30/79 All Rights Reserved 
Molarity 

: PUBtiC notiC€ :. 
! sackoROeRs ano ·i : Oe~ect1ve alsums: 
• must B€ p1ck€b up BY mon. • • apRil 30 at 4:00 pm. ~t€R that • : bat€ th€Y _B€COm€ PROP€Rty o~ : : th€ Stub€nt un1on. R€runbs : : must B€ cta1m€b BY sam€ bat€. :
. ........... .
~~ 
. ~,.~:~~·· ••
0€f€CtiV€S may B€ ~~~ • netunneb fon vv· • : neplacement monOay ;u : e apn1l 30 anb tuesbay e 
• may 5.
••••••••••••••••••••••8 
grasp, [hough, and rallied gamely in their half. Pullano and Mike Jamieson both singled sharply, and Valenzuela followed with a perfect sacrifice. Voellinger came through with a long hit to left-center, tying the game and upping his team-leading RBI total to twenty-seven. 
Ebert mowed down the Musketeers for the next two frames, ending up with five strikeouts in a sterling 2 1I 3 inning performance. He then watched happily as his mates won it for him in the ninth, on a 
ACROSS 25 Narrow 1 Island east opening of Java 26 Kind of 5 Rental committee document 29 Do wrong 10 Expen 31 Jeer 
pilots 34 Spat 14 Ardor 36 Wire meas­15 Goose urement 16 Philippine· 38 Samoan 
tribesman seapon 17 Occasion-39 Painting or ally sculpture 19 Arabian 40 Tasted bigwig 43 Arab caliph 
20 Capable 44 Wesleyan: of being abbr. stretched 46 Chum 
21 Most expen-47 Girl sive 49 Ghostly 23 Squints 51 Violin pin 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
S A T E P 0 I N T B L S L I P P ~tp:"~. C R A 
C 0 P A L S G R A N D A l 0 N E B 0 I l 
SLIT.SOREL T A N. A T 0 HIS H 0 EST I 

·-'"'11"-

HATE.CASTOR 
G A I I 

0 
A C R E A U R A E E 

U R 0 R E E 0 T R E N D S 
T E H 
walk to ] amieson, a sacrifice, an intentional pass to Voellinger, a single by Simendinger to fill the sacks, and Banish's sacrifice fly. 
"We made some mtstakes out there, but I was really happy with the way the kids came back," Kelly beamed. Just about everyone's been hitting the ball well lately, and we were confident we could rally after fallin~ behind. I was very pleased· wtth the pitching of John Ebert. He's very collected out there, despite his lack of experience" (Ebert's 
53 Cozy places  22 Hinand  
54 God of love  Pacino  
56 Violin bow  24 Easier  
need  to do  
58 love affair  26 lizard  
61 Monar  27 lsbold  
pounders  enough  
65 Inland sea  28 Achieve  
66 Free  one's aim  
68 Pasteboard  30 Nothing  
69 High struc­ 32-mignon  
ture  33 Goesinto  
70 Talk in a  bankruptcy  
wild way  35 Havea  
71 Panof  chat: sl.  
BPOE  37 Conducted  
72 Despots  41 Tourist aid  
73 Fat  42 Kindof  
pastry  
DOWN  45 Messengers  
1 Predilec­ 48 loyal  
tion  advisers  
2 lily plant  50 -sequitur  
3 Grassplot  52 Prairie  
4 Plagued by  rodent  
trouble  55 GeorgeC.  
5 large spoon  fil Tellers of  
6 Comesin  the future  
7 Timber tree  58 Speed  
8 Germ  contest  
9 Piscivorous  59 Spoken  
birds  60 Baseball's  
10 PanofUSA  Slaughter  
11 Happen  62 lanai feast  
12 Goddess of  63 Ancient  
discord  serf  
13 Quality  64 Paving  
18 Family cir­ stone  

4! 30179 clemembers 07 Pair: Scot. 
by Michael Molinelli 


CELEBRATION/SUNSHINE/RIVER CITY 
Proudly Presents 

w1th Special Guests 
AC/DC 
Wednesday, May 16 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
South Bend 
Tickets: $8.00/7.00 reserved and are now on sale at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North (3 miles north of campus). Call 277-4242 for further information. 
high  school  did  not  have  a  
baseball  team).  With  the  
promise  he  displayed  

yesterday, he can look forward to seeing a great deal of mound duty. 
This Wednesday, Notre Dame travels to Wri~ley Field for a doubleheader wtth Illinois at Chicago Circle. Mark Ladd and Bob Bartlett are the scheduled Irish starters. 
Tracksters take fifth at state meet 
by Beth Huffman Women 's Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's women track­sters proved that the men on the campus aren't the only ones that can excel in running and field events. The squad placed fifth on Saturday in the Indiana State Small College Champion­ships out of thirteen teams. Manchester dominated the meet, tallying 131 points, fol­lowed by Marion with · 107, Taylor with 85.5, and Indiana Central, who edged Notre Dame for fourth place by a scant one and a half points, with 49.5. 
The 3200 meter relay team of Jane Ahern, Kathy Gutherie, Helen Weber, 'and Eunie Sulli­van joined for a second place with a time of 11:20. Jackie and Bernie Bollas, Weber and Sulli­van teamed for another second place, this time with a 4:26 clock in the 1600 meter relay. 
Mary Hums collected second place honors in the javelin with a throw of 109'6 '12 ". Eunie Sullivan dashed to a second in the 1500 meters with a 5:27.1, just edging teammate Helen Weber, who finished fourth at 5:27.2. 
Notre Dame picked up a fourth place finish in the 5000 meters with Jane Ahern cros­sing the line at 20:49. Liz Berry also took a fourth, but in the 300 meters with a 12:31 run. 
The Irish also took two sixth places, one in the 3000 meter run when Adelia Malvezzi crossed the line at 12:54. The second sixth place was turned in by Sheryl Kerns, who putted the shot 31 '2 V2 ". _ 
The women will face South­western Michigan in a home meet on Wednesday. Field events are scheduled to begin at 4:00p.m. and running events at 4:30 r..m. Highlighting the meet wtll be the 5000 meter race which is scheduled to begin at 4:30p.m. The race will be opened to any woman on either the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus that wishes to compete for exhibition. All o[her events will be open, but the 5000 meter race ts being stressed as the main exhibition event. 
B 8r B Storage 
Special;Half 
Price group rate for Notre Dame/SMC Students 
US 31 North lowest rates in Michiana call : 684-1125 683-8833 


-~-~---------~~ 

_j 
-

~~ortsbriefs 
Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 11 
Flanner pounds Dillon 
• • • Chumps

in interhall soccer finale 
[continued from page 12] opponents in Saturday's semi­team and individual awards will 
by Paul Mullaney ires held on to claim their third 
final games. Bill Laimbeer and be announded in an upcoming
Assistant Sports Editor title in the last six champion­
Butcher's Kevin Hart, sunk a .Pope John Paul I and the Pope issue of the Observer And so 
shir,s. 
free throw to win the game. In of the Month Club battled the it was that Bookstore VIII 
. While t~<; weather and_ plat ' Dillon lost early in the 
between the game's momen­Butchers but came out on the became history. After the 
mg condmons for F_nday_ s tournament and had to play a 
tum, and lead, changed hands short end of a 21-17 score. In game yesterday, Sudkamp
interhall soccer championshtp lot of team in the losers' 
on many occasions. Saturday's early game, Larry's walked off the court surrounded 
game were far from spectacu­bracket," Jim McKee, Flanner 
In a game that everyone Laundrymen took the Chumps by friends who had followed his 
lar, the goaltending in the co-captain, said. ''They really 
expected to be a )?hysical battle into overtime, only to lose 22-20 team from the first day of the 
contest was nonetheless a spec­showed they were a good 
with plenty of mside "man­on a Dan Short tip-in of a Tom tournament. It seemed fitting
team.'' 
euvers'' it seemed a bit ironic McLaughlin jumper. that Sudkamp, who mbst likely
tacle. 
Dillon Hall's Mike Mitchell While Dillon was indeed 
that most of the scoring came In all, summed up commis­will leave Notre Dame after this 
and Flanner Hall's combo of impressive throughout the tour­
from the outside shots of sioner Leo Latz, it was a great year, could add a championship 
Gary Leiner and Bo~ ~oyc:t~e nament, it was Flanner that put 
Sudkamp (nine-of-18) and tournament. trophy to his long list of 
virtually put on a goalie s chmc to~ether the effort necessary to 
Bruce Flowers who grabbed the ''I think we had some of the Bookstore Basketball awards. 
for nearly 200 diehards who reign as tourney kings. 
game's high-sconng honors greatest games in Bookstore He looked around and sighed.
braved steady rainstorm to "It may sound cliche, but the 
with 10 points on 20 attempts.· history and the crowds were as "We finally won it," he 
watch Flanner edge Dillon, 1-0, game really was a team effort," 
For the Chumps, Dan Short hit good, if not better, than ever." laughed. 
in the double-elimination tour­said Rob Peralta, Flanner' s 
five-of-10 shots while Tom Certainly the latter statement No one dt:~t·t , cd it more. 
nament behind the ACC. other captain. ''It think we 
"Truck" McLaughlin was four­was true, evidenced by the 
Dillon, which came out of the really held the upper hand. We 
for-13. Rusty Lisch and Dave standing room only crowd that 
losers' bracket, forced Friday's simply had the better team." 
Marcel contributed two and one braved yesterday's downpour Tennis team 
contest by handing Flanner its Regardless of which team 
points respectively to the to witness the final game. Latz 
first loss of the competition on was better this time around, 
winnners' boxscore. also commented that he was • 
For the losers, Hart had four serviced by a tremendous staff,
Thursday in a 2-1 outcome. McKee has reason to be en­
wt-ns two 

Unfortunately for Mitchell, thused about the future. 
points on 10 shots while Pat without whom Bookstore VIII 
the game's lone tally sailed into "We had some freshmen 
Ward hit three-of-12 and Tom would never have happened. The men's tennis team tallied 
the net behind him. Flanner who really came through for us 
Pfeiffer, one-of-six. John ''People like Mary Sterling a successful weekend by scor­
Scully, playing for the injured and Bob DelGenio were tireless ing two tealJI wins. Friday the
left wing Chris Groll, set up by throughout the tournament, es­
Ed Kennedy, scored with only pecially the halfbacks,:' said 
Dave Huffman, had more than throughout the entire tourna-squad beat Michigan State, 6-3, 
his share of troubles with a ment,'' praised Latz. and to polish off a perfect
six minutes remaining in the McKee. "Freshmen like Ed 
too-wet basketball as he could "Bookstore Basketball is a tre­weekend the team defeated
affair to start and end the day's Kennedy, Mike Gore and 
Miguel Pedraza. and others like 
find the handle only once in ten mendous undertaking and it Eastern Michigan, 6-3, on Sun­
sconng. 
tries. takes many people to make the day. The team is now 18-6 with
And while Dillon put strong Mike Susi and Luis Garcia 
Both Chumps and The thing function smoothly." Latz four matches remaining this
pressure on Goyette in the Pardes kept us going through­
Butchers had to face tough announced that Bookstore VIII season.
closing minutes, the Flanner-out the year." 
/ j 
Classifieds 
Nice house for rent this summer. 4 WANTED: Person(s) to rent 1or 2 bdrm. bedroom, quiet neighborhood, 10 min-apartment at Campus View for Fall '79
Notices 
utes from campus, just across the river. only. Call Mike at 234-3574 after 6:00 Call 6637 for details. 
p.m. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND All Morrissey loans must be repaid by Two bedroom apt. partially furnished. Need two male housemates to share nice Monday, May 7th. Those not repaid will Male grad students only. 234-7617 house. Cars useful. Call 289-9498. be turned over to Student Accounts. Penalty will be charged. Apartment for rent, one bedroom, dining 
Wanted: Driver to take car to San Diego.
room, kitchen and bath. Fully furnished, Anyone Interested in Nocturne Night inexpensive, will accomodate two. Contact Sister Miriam 284-4022 for Flight positions for next year MUST sign Available now for summer and next 
terms. up for abrief Interview held on April 26 or semester. 289-1380 April 30. Sign up sheets and more 
FROM METROPOLITAN NYC? details are posted in the WSND lobby on 
If you're a knowledgeable football fan, fourth floor O'Shag, or call TK at 3262. 
Need really bi~ sound for your next you can earn up to $500 next fall. Send party? Two eavey loudspeakers with for application: Mr. Young, The Football 
300w mixer/amp. Adapts to ant system Research Corporation, 6 E45th Street,TYPING. IBM Selectric 
for great sound magnification. all Bob, 
New York, N.Y. 10017Plcku~ and delivery 
363477-0296 
Wanted: Used typewriter. Call Mary,
Mature Student! 
287-6659, early evenings.
Unique opportunity to share large fur­nlshed home near campus. $130 includes monthly room and other furnishings, Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work 289-0103 nights. at home--no experience necessary-­R.N.'s 
excellent pay. Write American Service,Nationwide vacancies and anticipated 8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TXvacancies at this VA Medical Center for 
75231
Staff Registered Nurses and graduating Nurse Technicians. Excellent salary and Wanted . 
fringe benefits commensurate with ex-parlance and education--notably 26 work-
WNDU needs student to drive van for 
mg days vacation and 13 days sick leave 
pick-ups and deliveries, mail, etc. 8-5 
~er year In add\ton to nine fcald holidays. man. thru frl. Start mid May thru nterested applicants shou d write or call 
summer. Call Mrs. Alleman, 233-7111 the Personnel Officer at the VA Medical 
Center, Marion, IN 46952 (317-674-3321, ATTENTION: CHICAGO BEARS FANS 
extension 315). 
You can earn up to $500 watching their regular season games next fall. Send for application: the Football Research CoyPoration, 6 E45th Street, New York, N.. 10017
Lost&Found 
TENNIS PROS WANTED--Excellent Lost: a blue racquetball racquet before Summer seasonal and year-round posl-Easter break on either NO or SMC lions available; good playing and teach-campus. Please call 4606. lng backround re~UJred. Call (301) 
654-3770, or send complete resumes, Lost: Gold class ring, St. Thomas pictures to: K.J. Belkknap, W. T.S., 8401 A~ulnas high school. Call Mary Ellen, Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy 27 -5423 Chase, MD 20015. 
Found: chain bracelet In front of Zahm Wanted: 2 convertible couches for next Friday. Call to Identity. Phil, 8761. year. Fair to good condition, reasonable 
price. Call Tom 8676--Jeff 8659 Lost: Keychaln with SMC I. D. Desperately needed!! If found, call OVERSEASE JOBS -Summar/year Rhonda, 4-1-4449. round. Europa, S. America, Australia, 
Asia, Etc. All Fields, $5011-$1,200 Lost: 25-year-old N D ~acket worn by my monthll. Expanses laid. Sightseeing. father. Blue cotton jac et with ~ell ow N D Free In o.-Write: IJ , Box 52-14, Corona emblem. Name tage M. Root n lining. Del Mar, CA 92625 Call 8276 If found. 
If you are aUniversity of Michigan-bound graduate student seeking a~rtment­mate tor coming year please cal Jackie at 
SMC-4562
For Rent 
Need 4 Graduation Tlx. Will to pay$.
Rooms $40 mo. summer or fall. Near Dave 1158.
.rides. 233-1329. 
For Sale 
For Sale: One pair Yamaha NS1000m studdlo monitors, 11/2 years old, $550. One Lux M-2000 Amplifier $500--2 yrs. old. Contact Flanner Records. Phone 4256. 
For Sale: '69 Dodge Coronet p.s., a.c., NEW EVERYTHING! $375, Tony 8842 
Moving Sale: Sofa-bed, curtains, ~!ants, ~ctures, bookcase, dest, file ca lnets, nd arra ements, call after 9 p.m., 
272-6517 
Senior must sell refrigerator $25--Call 7820, ask for Pete. 
Brother elec. port. type. Low price. Call Randy 1CJ?2. 
END  OF  SEMESTER  SALE  STEREO  
COMPONENTS  LOWEST  PRICES  
ANYWHERE  ALL  MAJOR  BRANDS  

AVAILABLE ALL FULLY GUARANTE­ED. CALL SCOTT AT 283-6757 
Acharming Cape Cod with enclosed front porch, Northshore neighborhood, bright modern kitchen, living room with fire­place, dining room, two large bedrooms upstairs, remodelled bath, private back­yard, one car garage, maintenance free exterior. 
'66 VW In ve~ good condition. Asking$600. Negotla le. 289-9498 
All classified ads must be rece1ved by 5 00 p.m .. two days pnor to the 1ssue mwh1ch the ad is run The Observer office Will accept class1fieds Monday through Friday, 10.00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All clas>~fleds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the ma11 
. 

T-Shirt closeout!! We busted before Salt Lake City, but you can still get your Salt You wild and crazy Floridian, Lake City or Bust T-Shirt before you go Thanks for the terrific time Saturday home! Only $2 apiece or 6for $10. Help night. me get rid of them! Contact Tio at 4684 after 8 p.m. 
Senior-Alumni Picnic May 5th, 11-1 atFor Sale: Easy chairs and arm chair, Stepan Canter. Bear 'n Brauts. For the

bookcase. Call 8954 after 11 Class of '79. 
PHI LA. BAGGAGE TRUCK Meeting Mon., April 30, Lewis Hall, 7 p.m., $5 deftoslt will be collected--also,

Personals 
election of o fleers--questions, call Marla, 3433, or Mike 1626. 
Phil,

Ellen Flood-­Tu sera bien hereuse a apprendre que 
Thank you for your kind words and je suis toujour en vie--sans blague! 
lovely daisies! 

J'espere que je peux te voir avant le fin Laveda' de L'annee--passe-moi un coup de fil M M quelque jour-Okay? 
La vache qui rlt 
Rosemary, Sorry for the communication break-To a nice practical joker, 

down, and Inability to find atime to meet.

Thanks for the daisies! 
Kindly excuse our mistaken perjorative-Myra ness, and let our column appear once more before we graduate. It's afterLynn DeGraff, Easter--please resurrect us.

Buon comrteanno da Roma! Have a The Talking Head 
great day. I m thinking of you. Love., 
I'm glad all went peachy-keen.

Mary Beth Hessy-Bab\ 
CAB 
Z-Bag and Jeff-

Congratulations on surviving last 
Good luck on MCAT's.

week, and becoming an Arnie Your sponsor 
Stan,(I knew you could do it) 

Good luck on your MCAT's Saturday. know you'll do great. After they're allTO EVERYONE WHO MADE MY 

over you can start thinking of the summer

B'DAY SO SPECIAL • A MILLION down the shore.
THANKS! YOU'RE THE GREATEST! 
Love,

LOVE YAALL, Nancy (Your little sister at SMC)
LOUISE 

The Widmayer, Flood, Tracanna You are the one whom I fear to meet 
To my dearest Ricky T., 
Sex-A·Thon is on. Ladies (and you too each day and yet I cannot walt until I do. 
Scoop) write In the campus-male of your I know the pain will come. I know the 
choice. Whoever gets the most sweet and sexy personals treats best personal tochoking In my throat of the words that are 

dinner. Nice bod Is not acriteria In ordernever s~oken. I know your body and seek It out, t ough the slightest taste will leave 

to give Rick and Tim a chance. Write me weak and mindless. I have no other 
now!! world but you. Your smile Is my sun. Your eyes, my stars. Your face, my Joe--Thanks for walking me home!!
moon. Your touch and warm caress, my 
earth and food. Yea, this Is Ricky, as I have never said before to anyone. 
Never been any reason -Racoon Bob Westrick-You are 1 fox! P., M., B. 
Glenn and Andy, 
CQngrats on your Ugly Man nomina 
tlons!! Batter luck next year!

Patrick-
I meant to send you daisies to tell you that as a brother, you'te one of the best. VIcki 

I 
Monday, April 30, 1979 -page 12
Snorts 

eighth annual Bookstore who have dominated the rwo­
Basketball crown, by virtue of a The Chumps barely edged past The Butchers, 2i-19, in finals of this year's bookstore year-old competition, will lose basketball classic to win their second straight title. [photo by Mzke Bzgley].
21-19 win over the Butchers. seniors Lally and McMenamin Afterwards, Sudkamp and his for next year's competition. teammates were very wet but Lally was the team's allotted very happy. varsity player. 
In diamond action
"This was a big thrill for Jane Politiski, Helen me,'' beamed Sudkamp who Gorman, Chris Burns, Kitty captained this year's version of Ryan, and Mary Ryan teamed a team formed by he and varsity up to form the runners up. Any eager Bill Hanzlik rwo years Old Thing will graduate Burns, 
Irish rally to top Xavier 
ago. Hanzlik, who could not Gorman, and Kitty Ryan. play because of the well-Politiski, the squad's varsity published NCAA ruling, served by Mike Henry quickly, tallying three runs in Irish, but his elbow, which had member, is only a junior and as coach of the champion Sports Writer each of the first rwo stanzas been plaguing him, stiffened in will return next year for the Chumps, and after the game he against Musketeer starter Ed the second and Kelly brought third annual classic. was no less elated than any of The Notre Dame and Xavier Williams. Dan Voellinger, who Tim Handrich into the contest. The game's play, which was the players who participated. baseball teams borrowed a has seen his average jump over Xavier chipped away with rwo long and tedious, saw Any Old 
"I'm really happy about page from the Bookstore 100 points in the last rwo unearned runs in the third and Thing stick close to the this,'' he pointed out. ''Of Basketball tournament yester­weeks, drove in the first run a singleton in the fifth to make defending champs for the first course I wish I could have day, playing throughout a with a single, and Mark it 6-4. In the crucial seventh, a seven baskets. Then, in the played but, from the way these steady mist that turned the Simendinger followed with a tiring Handrich yielded a walk words of the tournament's guys (The Chumps) played, it infield into a quagmire and rwo-run double. and rwo singles to make it a one commissioner, Mary Ryan, the look.s. ;:-,;; if rhey didn't need made all aspects of the game In the second inning, center­run game, and Kelly removed Notre Darners "just took off." 111= treacherous. After blowing a fielder ] erry Scanlon singled, him m favor of freshman left­Last year's finale was a 
Not :ne case at all as yester-6-1lead and falling behind, the and Ricky Pullano followed with banderJohn Ebert. Designated close-fought battle berween the day s runners-up, The Irish stage"d a dramatic rally in a bunt that stayed on the line hitter Mark Hollstegge teams with the Notre Darners Butchers, gave Sudkamp and the seventh to knot the contest for a base hit. After hot-hitting promptly singled to tie the just grabbing a 21-19 win. Co. all they could handle. On and won it in the ninth, 9-8, on Henry Valenzuela laced a shot game, and Ebert walked Steve Sue Kunkel led the winning an afternoon· not intended for a long sacrifice fly by Dave that rolled under the leftfield Dawes to load the bases with squad in offense with six outdoor basketball, both teams Barrish. The nightcap was fence for rwo bases, Voellinger none out. baskets, while varsity player sloshed through 48 minutes of postponed, allowing the crowd bounced one to the hot corner, "I wasn't really nervous at Jane Politiski paced the losers action that ended when sheltered in the press box to which Tom Weber threw away this point. I was determined to with five. Credit also ~oes to Sudkamp, fouled b., the fully savor the exciting Notre to allow Scanlon and Pullano to show what I could do," the 6-3, the champion's Margaret 
Dame triumph. trot home. [continued on Page 11] Tom Kelly's crew jumped out Mike Bobinski started for the [continued on page 10) [continued on page 9] 
===================================== 
Tim .l(oegel awaits promotion 
Toll !'..Ct:~d is a little bit like the first g• ~der who kno.vs the answer, but can't get hi-; t("acher --------,:~.to cal. on him. But unlike the kid, whc ooh'sand aah's and waves his hand back and fon1 .. Notre Craig 
~··~ Dame s sophomore q_uarterback has had to just sit back quietly, waiung for his turn. 
In fact, Koegel has known the answer, or at Chval least he's thought he has, for rwo years now. It's just that his teacher, Irish Head Coach Dan at1d had a starting job with the NFL team, any Devine, has been able to look elsewhere and get number of major universities were promising the right answer. Koegel the world--including their starting 
But now]oe Montana, who provided enough quarterback spot--if he chose to attend their correct responses to earn 19 wins in the past rwo school. seasons, is gone, and Devine is finally looking Even now, just a few hours to the south, toward Koegel. The only question now is another strong-armed quarterback is getting whether Koegel has been able to remember the himself ready for his junior season. Mark answer for rwo years. Herrmann, who prepped in the Indiana of 
In 1977, Tim Koegel had the world in his back town of Carmel, opted to attend Purdue, a pocket. As a record-setting quarterback for once-mighty school with a proud tradition of 
• 
Cincinnati's Moeller High School, Koegel could magnificent quarterbacks. have signed a letter of intent to play for any And in the past rwo seasons, Herrmann has school in the nation. And according to some ~one a long way to add his name to the list that reports, Cincinnati Bengal General Manager mcludes Bob Greise, Lenny Dawson and Mike Paul Brown thought Koegel was good enough to Phipps. Herrmann will enter his third season at step right into the pros. Purdue with a bushel-full of press clippings, the 
Instead, Koegel enrolled at the University of attention of the sports public, and more Notre Dame. There are those who will tell you importantly, rwo years under his belt. that if he was looking to avoid the pressure and Herrmann will spend his spnng J?retty much at the scrutiny of millions of fans, Koegel would leisure, refining his skills and b1ding his time have been better off in the NFL. until September. But Koegel has to find out if 
While it may be a little far-fetched to say 
Tim Koegel, Irish sipnal calle~r, awaits the /mod from Head 
Koegel could have thrown his helmet on the field [continued on page 9] 
Coach Dan Devine for the spot ofnumber one quarterback. 

' 



