• • • Washington Hall's ghost -page 6 

VOL XIII, NO. Ill an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1979 
CLC fails to reach quorum; discusses input into du Lac 
by Mark Rust News Editor 
Failing to reach a quorum, the Camr.us Life Council (CLC) met last night to discuss two issues --their 'input'' into the rules in du Lac and their group's composition --but decided nothing due to the absence of three rectors and two faculty members. The two faculty members will not be elected until the May 1 meeting of the Faculty Senate. Two of the four rectors absent reported after the meeting that they had been notified by the office of Student Affairs too late to make plans to attend the meeting. The Rectors were elected to the Council four days ago. 
Fourteen of eighteen members are necessary for a quorum 
under the CLC rules. Thirteen members were in attendence. The 
CLC's failure to achieve a quorum was termed "unusual" by 
Student Body Vice President Bill Vita. 
Once issue scheduled to be voted on--clarification of the body's 
right to have a voice in areas of du Lac other than student affairs -­
was tabled until the body achieves a quorum at its next meeting, 
the first of the next semester. If a vote had been taken, the issue 
would have appeared on <he agenda of the Board of Trustees when 
they meet ne·xt weekend. 
The CLC spent most of its one-and-a-half-hour meeting dsi~ussing whether they properly represent the sr_udent body in thetr present makeup. In Its present form, the CLC ts composed of five hall vice-presidents, a total of five representatives from Student Government, six rectors and two faculty members. They are charged with the primary responsibility of suggesting changes in du Lac, the student handbook. 
Although the discussion was "moot" without a quorum, as 
Keenan Rector Fr. Richard Conyers pointed out, the group 
appeared to accept their present makeup as adequate. Under one 
proposal the five hall vice-presidents would have been replaced 
with class officers. 
The discussion of the CLC' s role in giving input into du Lac grew out of a debate generated by the Flanner Mall "Playboy" controversy. The controversy began last month when John Retd, director of Student Activities, noted that non-food items were being sold in many food sales outlets in dorms. Reid made clear his intention to clarify the du Lac re~ulations regarding the sale of non-food items, · 
Some CLC members expressed concern that the decision might be made without first consulting their deliberative body. Student Body President Bill Roche, who presided over the meetin~, asked TEL AVIV (AP) -Israel River in southern Lebanon Israeli resort town of Nahariya Dean of Students James Roemer to clarify the University s policy pounded Palestinian strong­hours after naval gunboats in which four Israelis died. on what area of au Lac the CLC could discuss and help revtse. holds in Lebanon by air and sea ended a two-day attack on Egypt said the Israeli attacks 
Roche asked Roemer whether Reid had the power to change the yesterday. Egypt denounced coastal targets near the Leban­could have a negative effect on guidelines in du Lac regarding food sales, to which Roemer the attacks and said they could ese port of Tyre, the Israeli implementation of the Israeli­replied, "In my mind, yes." Since no vote could be taken and no hun the Israeli-Egyptian peace military command said. Egyptian treaty signed March legislation proposed, discussion of the issue was drof?ped. As of treaty. Israel said the area was the 26. today, the role of the CLC in the process of du Lac revtsions is still Israeli jets hit Palestinian launching point for Sunday's 
The Egyptian statementunclear. positions north of the Litani Palestinian terror attack in the deplored the cycle of violence between Israel and the Palesti­nians, but did not condemn the Palestinian terror strike at
In North Dakota 
Nahariya, which is believed to have sparked the Israeli response.


Red River threatens UJorst flood of century 
Egyptian Foreign Minis­try statement also condemned BIG BUFFALO, N.D. (AP) sandbags wide­to
-prevented 1,000 residents along the Tom­two task forces have warned of Israel's decision establish 
Clay dikes protecting the sister spread damage and Beaumont higbee, Warrior and Alabama the flood dan~ers posed by two new settlements in the cities of Grand Forks, N.D., and police patrolled the Neches occupied West Bank of the
rivers farther upstate. stream channelmg and the con­
East Grand Forks, Minn., River and Hillabrandt Bayou by In the nation's capitol, in the struction of dams. Jordan River. 
turned mushy under heavy rain boat to head off looters. meantime, MississiJ?pi Gov. 
Totif!g up flood losses so far An Israeli communique saidyesterday and flood fighters 
In Mississippi, the Pearl Cliff Finch, Columbta Mayor in the flat and sprawling farm­the warplanes hit Palestinianrouted more residents threat­River was slowly dropping at Robert Bourne andother offi­lands of the Red River Valley, artillery and rocket emplace­ened by the Red River's worst Columbia, where half the cials were scheduled to testify the U.S. Army Corps of Engi­ments near Beaufort Castle and 
flood this century. town's 7,500 residents hd fled. at congressional hearing in neers P.Ut the cost at more than the towns Nabatiyeh and"The situation is worsen­Civil Defense Director Jim support of lower interest rates $26 mdlion. Arnoun, 20 miles inland froming,'' said Bob Norlund, a Thornhill said, "I would think for federal disaster loans. "It's proving to be the most the earlier coastal targets.hydrologist for the National the crisis has passed." Finch earlier estimated damage expensive flood in the Red 
Palestinian guerrillas said
Weather Service as the river But THornhill said it might from the Pearl River flood at up River area in history,'' said Jim 
Israel started pushing
continued to surge through the be several days before many of to $1 billion. Braatz, a spokesman for the "columns of tanks and armored area at about 20 feet above the residents, forced out when And two environmentalists agency. 
vehides'' from the northernflood stage and just about a foot the river crested 10 feet above yesterday blamed federal works The north-flowing R~d River Israeli settlement of Netulla tobelow the brim of the weakened floodstage of Saturday, could projects for contributin~ to the has spre..ad miles wiae into both the southern Lebanese town ofmake-shift levees. return home. record floods in Mississtppi and Minnesota and North Dakota, Marjoyoun.
Down south, the Neches ''And there are villages to Alabama. damagin~ scores of farms and 
River crested 7 feet above flood the south that we haven't been ''It's time to find out whether inundatmg a dozen small The Lebanese freighter stage at Beaumont, Texas, able to reach," he said. the federal flood control agen­towns. Neveen was listing sharply in flooding more houses in Jeffer­Just north of Mobile, Ala., at cies are in fact increasing flood Sidon harbor, Lebanon at day­
The Red Cross has opened 
son County where 500 families Saraland, about 75 miles fami­losses," said Tom Barlow of the eight emergency care shelters break. Palestinian and local already had abandoned their lies were evacuated and 200 national Resources Defense along a 200-mile stretch of the shipping sources said it was homes with water over the were put on alert as Bayou damaged by an explosion set by
Council. river and is feeding 6,000 dike 
windows. Creek overflowed from flood­Brent Backwelder of the En­Israeh saboteurs, and no one Barriers built with 50,000 waters that last week routed vironmental Policy Center said ·. [Contin11ed on page 4] was injured. 
I 

Patricia M. Denan, Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, spoke on human rights and foreign policy in Hayes-Healy last night. [Photo by Mark Muench] 
Israel 'pounds' Palestinian positions 







..,.. 

News in brief 
Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 2 

To Judicial Council
After years offighting, 
O'Hare chooses new-rnen1bers
Bayh dies ofcancer 
by Kathy Connelly needs, , are suggesting possible O'Hare said he hoped toWASHINGTON (AP)--Marvella Bayh who used her experi­Senior Copy Editor revisions of du Lac, responding solidify the structure and func­enc~ as a polit~cian's wife to turn h~r long personal battle to procedural questions of stu­tion ot hall]-boards. He wouldagamst cancer mto a ~at10nal crusade, died yesterday. She ] udicial Commissioner ] im dents involved in disciplinary also like to make the Judicialwa~ 46. Mrs. Bayh, wife of Sen. ~irch Bayh of Indiana, died O'Hare announced yesterday procedure, and possibly repre­Council more visible and moreof moperable cancer at the National Institutes of Health the new members of the senting students as undergrad responsive to the judicial needs hospital in suburban Maryland in midaftemoon. Mrs. 

Judicial Council. O'Hare chose counsel in front of Dean of of students. 

Bayh's final struggle against cancer began about a month the members out of a field of Students James Roemer.
ago. But she had been fighting the disease for eight years 
approximately 15 applicants.

after having abreast removed in October 1971. At the time 
Kevin Shaughnessy, a resi­

The Observer

her husband was campaigning for the Democratic presiden: 
dent of Zahm, will be in charge 

tial nomination. ''These years since cancer came to me have Night Editor: Frank Kebe
of du Lac revision, while

~ee~.the mo~t rewarding, the most filling, the happiest in my Asst. Night Editor: Patsy •Howard resident ] ohn Gesch­Irish Wake life, she satd several months ago. "I have learned to value 
Campbell
wind supervises the areas of

life, to cherish it, to put my priorities in order and to begin Cor.y Editors: Tim Joyce,Special Projects. 
my long-postponed dream of being useful in my own right.'' 
M.tke Onufrak
In charge of Publicity and to announce Layout Staff: Doug Kreitz­
Information will be Lyons resi­
berg
dent ] ulie Palafox and Flanner
Secret Service Agents 
Features Layout: Chris·resident ] oe Congeni. Mary_ UMOC 
Stewart
Monnat was appointed Staff 
Typists: Kim Convey,



discover counterfeit press 
Coordinator. 
The winner of the UMOC con­
Nancy Morris, Betz
Barb Lynch, a resident of 
test will be announced at the 
M.asana, Katie Brehl
Breen-Phillips, will head the

BROOKFIELD, Ill. (AP)--RobertJ. Rizzo told his wife to stay Irish Wake in Stepan Center on Night Controller: Mardi area of hall J -boards, hall Saturday night. Orest, lastout of his basement workshop because she mi~ht expose his Day Editor: Ketih Melar­
affairs and du Lac revisions

photographic negatives to light. But authorities say he was year's ugly man, .will be the 
agno
which affect hall J -boards. master of ceremomes. 

actually hiding a counterfeit press on which he turned out an 
Ad Layout: Flo 0 'Connell. 
All of the new appointees are

estimated $1 million in phony bills. Rizzo, a 32-year-old used 
Dave Wood
juniors, with the exception of Ugly Man on Campus (UM~),car salesman, was being sought Tuesday by Secret Service 

Photographer: Mark
Geschwind, who is a sopho­the annual event to determmeagents who raided his home over the weekend. Agents said 

Muenc"h 
more. the ugliest man or woman on O'Hare said that he envi­the ND-SMC campuses is in full an arrest warrant charged him with violating currency laws. 

''AP,par~ntly, not even his wif~ was aware of w~at wa~ going 
The Observer (USPS 598 920] Is
swing now, with voting being
sioned each of the appointees

on, satd Richard]ordan, Chicago Secret Service chief who 
published Monday through Friday ex­
conducted in the dining halls
as chairmen of a committee of 
cept during exam and vacation periods.

headed the raid on Rizzo's home in this suburb west of today through Friday, accord­
The Observer is published by the
council members dealin~ with
Chicago. 
students of Notre Dame and Saint
ing to UMOC chariman Steve
one of the five specialized 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be
Dyer.
areas. 
purch11ed for S20 per yur [$10 per 
semester] from The Observer. P. 0. box
"I'd like the staff to provide 
·The proceeds from UMOC go 


Mother serves 10 years 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second
leadership in these different 
Sister Marita's Primary Day 
class postage paid, Notre Dame. In­
areas which I see as pretty 
School in South Bend. Last 
diana 46556.
important as far as advancing 
The Observer Is a member of the
year, the UMOC contest gross­
probation for child abuse 
Associated Press. All reproduction
the judicial needs of the stu­
ed in excess of $3000 for the 
rights are reserved.
dents," O'Hare stated. 
school.

BARTOW, Fla. (AP)--"Some people just shouldn't have 
He explained that "judicial

children," said a judge who ordered a 28-year-old mother of two not to get pregnant or to marry a man with children while she serves 10 years probation for aggravated child abuse. Kathy York Rodriquez was convicted of severely beating her 8-year-old daughter, Shannon Marie, in the front yard of their home last July in what police said was an apparent attempt to exorcise the devil. Polk Circuit Judge Oliver Green issued the unusual order last Friday after she was convicted. He said Tuesday that he meant every bit of it, and that the terms he spelled out are within the power of the court. She also lost custody of her children and was told she couldn't marry a man with children without the judge's permission. 
Classes forming for June LSAT
Weather 
Call 291-3150 
TEST PREPARATION

Several periods of showers and thunderstorms likely through 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

tomorro~. Lows tomorrow in the upper 50s. Highs in the 
For Information About Other Centers In More Than 80 Major US Cities & Abroad 
low 70s. Highs tomorrow in the mid to upper 60s. 
Outside NY State CALL TOLL FREE: 100-223-1712 

2:_15 pm --SEMINAR, "opP.ortunities in mana_g_ementsCience -an industry viewpoint," 122 HAYES-HEALY 
3:25pm--SEMINAR, "the strange oscillatory nature of Some catalytic reactions,'' prof. roger Schmitz, U. of ill., 366 CHEM.ENGR.BLDG. . 
4:15 r,m :-LECTURE, "philosophy of law ofgiovanni battista vica, ' prof. caponigri, nd, 101 LAW SCHOOL 
5-6 pm -·VOTING, for ugly man on campus, ND AND SMC DINING HALLS 
5:15pm-· FASTER'S MASS, WALSH CHAPEL 
6:30pm .. MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 

[f¥¥r:£~~~l1-fWE nd-smc right to life group, LAFORTUNE 
7, 9:15 & 11:30 pm ·· FILM~..T"madame rosa," sponsored by 
cultural arts commission, EJ.-;GR. AUD., $1 

7:30 pm --AMERICAN SCENE CULTURAL SERIES, "discipline & liability: rights & responsibility of teachers & studen.IS," milq~ret oannon, incl. state dept. of public info., 
CARROlL HALL SMC 

8 pm -· LECTURE, "experimental latin american theatre," Lffi. AUD. 
8:15 _Qm ··CONCERT, notre dame chorale, SACRED HEART CHURCH 
MILLER adds to any An Tostal festivity I I l 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------.~---------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1979 -page 3 
' 
' 


The carnival that has been erected in Stepan Center's parking lot opens today offen'ng rides andgames for all. [Photo by Mark Muench] 
An Tostal magnifies after humble beginnings 
the name "An Tostal" (mean­

This is the second article of a 
ing "festival" in Gaelic) come

three-part sen'es. The final 
straight from Ireland. In an

installment wtll be in Fn'day 's 
effort to promote tourism and

OBSERVER. 
strengthen Ireland's. sagging post-World War II economy, a
by Beth Willard 
number of local spring festivals· were amalgamated into oneIn the past twelve years An official "An Tostal." The three Tostal has grown, but when one week long, national celebration compares past and present consisting of athletic games,events, its essential character Irish cultural events and gen­seems to have stayed the same. 

eral parties was started in 1953In 1968 Dan Ryan, a member but broke down into localof the Hall Prestdents Council, festivals again in the late 50's.

proposed a weekend of free fun This occured because outlyingfor students. The Council counties claimed that Dublinagreed with him, that too much was reaping too large a share ofemphasis was being placed on the profit.
costly activities such as In 1968 the tradition was
formals, and voted to set aside $25 to establish a variety of revived on the Notre Dame 
campus under Ryan's directionevents that students from both when the Sorin-Badin Olympics the Notre Dame and St. Mary's were expanded.

campuses could participate in, When 1969 publicity director free of charge. 
James E. Brogan created theRyan became the first chair­An Tostal booklet advertisingman of what was to become an past events and new additions,annual event with a present the festival jumped in popular­budget of $15,000. 

ity and participation. AmongThe symbol of the harp and the new events were the Trivia Bowl, a "beach party" by St. Joseph's and St. Mary's lakes, and the selection of an An


Right to Life 
Tostal queen. The University bought ten pigs to continue the greased pig contest started the

to meet, elect 
year before. The forerunner of the Irish Wake, a Barn Party,ND-SMC Right to Life will hoi~ . 

was held in Stepan Center. 

a meeting tonight at 7 10 Many of the new events wereLaFortune Little Theatre to held on a day added to theelect next year's officers . 
celebrations, Gentle Thursday.

There will also be a fllm By 1970 the An Tostal chairman regarding pr~-nata~ develop­was unable to say why Thurs­ment and a dtscusswn of pos­day was called ''gentle.'' Thesible programs for next year. 
only present dar. clue seems toAny student, faculty, sta.ff, or be that the Gonlla Theatre had 

administrators interested 10 the pro-life movement are invited to attend. [Continued on page 7] 
Hesburgh hosts 


Schlereth speaks on ND history 
by Maureen Heraty Schlereth devoted the next tures of themselves with the 
StaffReporter section of his speech to a Main Building in the back­
description of the Main Build-ground than any other campus 

Monday afternoon, Timothy ing as it appeared in its first locality.'' O'Meara, University provost, years. He mentioned that the Schlereth noted that thepresided over the Centennial structure housed the dining Dome has influenced manyObservance of the Main Build-hall, a bookstore, and a single aspects of the Notre Dame-St.
ing. Fr. William M. Lewes, office for the director of arb­Mary's community life, includ­provincial superior, arid Fr. letics, adding, "but then, foot­ing its vocabulary. He cited the Theodore M. Hesburgh, Uni-ball tickets were also cheap." 
terms "those blankety-blankversity president, hosted the The Main Building contained people under the dome, domer, event. Thomas J. Schlereth, twenty-two classrooms, a senior double domer, and even tripleassociate professor of American lecture hall, and assembly domer'' as examples of thisStudies, spoke on ''Notre Dame rooms. The third and fourth influence. The yearbook isOne Hundred Years Ago.'' floors held dormitories and a called The Dome and a certainSchlereth began by relating library. 

graduating student can receivethe story of the fire that Schlereth said that the Main the Dome Award, Schlerethdestroyed the old !llain building Building symbolizes' 'a place of said.

in April 1879. Sltdes depicting initiation for thousands of Notre the campus and Notre Dame Dame students and staffers; it "One can find the Dome's personaltties illustrated was the site of the first inter­influence everywhere," he con­Schlereth' s presen tatiori. view with the director of admis­tinued, "on shirts and jackets, Schlereth stated that "heroism, sions, the job recruiter, the on mugs and matches, the tragedy, and humor character-dean of administration and he Laetare medal and the diploma. ized the day." He explained added humorously, "the chief "If Notre Dame even burned that firemen arrived long after of security." down again, we could repro­the fire had started, and that He also mentioned the use­duce it from all the memorabilia articles including books, desks, fulness of the building's main that have been cloned from ir chairs, and stuffed animals flew entrance steps, over the years. and are now on sale in the out of the windows as stuaents Faculty often smoked cigars bookstore.'' attempted to rescue their be-after dinner on those steps in 
At the speech's conclusion,longings from the fire. "Only older times. A certain Brother Schlereth reflected on the Main the Holy Cross men remained Florin, affectionately known as Building's significance in the calm,'' Schlereth added. ''Brother Flo,'' went so far as to lives of past and present mem­Soon after the fire, the Uni-write a manual on "Porch bers of the Notre Dame and St. 

versity began a campaign to Etiquette and Smoking Rules," Mary's community. "It is fact 
raise money for a new Main Schlereth stated. Brother Flo and fantasy, myth and meta Building, similar to today's wrote that the Notre Dame 
phor, sign and symbol,''

Campaign for Notre Dame. It -student could only descend the Schlereth said. "To all of us it 
was then that a group of steps on his graduation day. If has meant many things, but it Chicago alumni established the the student continued aton has always meant one specialNotre Dame Club of Chicago, Notre Dame to attain his mas­thinS". Who among us has not which subsequently raised ter's degree, he could then stra.med their eyes ... for that money for the new building ascend the stairs and smoke golden dome lit brightly in the and arranged for the Notre with his professors. 
Indiana sky? When we see it,Dame students to give a benefit The steps also have served as we are home.'' 

concert at McCormick Place a the scene for many group 
famous hall in Chicago. photographs, Schlereth noted. St. Mary's alumnae also con-"More people have taken pic­
ACADEMY AWARD

tributed substantial sums of 
WINNER

money . to the Notre Dame cause. The University sent two sisters to Ireland to appeal to Chorale theirwealthyrelatives for money to add to the Main Building fund. 
to per_form

The University held lotteries and auctions to help raise 
money for the new Main Build­Bach cantata ing. Schlereth said that "Notre Dame tried everything in its The Notre Dame Chorale, approach except bingo.'' under the direction of Dr. David 
Eighty architects competed Clark Isele, will feature a to give Notre Dame a plan for a performance of J.S. Bach's Main Building that would best Cantata No. 4, 'Christ lag in 

\ 

serve the college's needs. Todesbandern" at their annual 
Si.m.one

Father Sorin finally chose the Spring Concert tonight plan submitted by thirty year­at 8:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart 

Signoret
in

old Chicagoan, Willoughby J. Church. Edbrooke, who had previously Accompanying the group for 

MADAME

designed several state capital Wednesday's performance is buildings. University organist, Sue 

ROSA 

Edbrooke also designed a few Seid-Martin. Also featured on 
sponsored by the Student Union 
·Cultural Arts Commission

other major buildings on Notre the program is the Midwest Dame's campus, including premiere of Swyneth Walker's Washington Hall, the old "Radiant Dawn," for chorus, science building, now LaFor­tenor solo, organ, and cello. 
Engineering Auditorium

tune Student Center, and Sorin Other works to be sung are Hall. Isele's "Te Deum" and several 
ij Tuesday, Aprll24 at 7, 9:15 and 11:30

The university desired to madrigals and spirituals. complete the new Main Build­The concert is sponsored by 
IWednesday, April 25 at 7, 9:15 and 

ing before school commenced in the Department of Music. The 
11:30 
, Admission $1

the fall of 1879. Schlereth public ts cordially invited. noted, "Scholastic magazine 
even expressed dissatisfaction that the administration had granted a holiday for the 
Applications Now Available 

workers on the building for the Fo~rth ofJuly." 
at Stud. Govt. Offices for 
Traffic Appeals Board




Commissions 
1979-1980

need people 
all undergraduate eligible 

The Student Government Com­missions on Social and Third World Concerns need help. If you are interested in helfing 


All applications due 4/30

with the events that wil be sponsored next year, call cabi-
Any question or suggestion Jim 0 'Hare, 
-

1 net member Don Cleary(1528), 
Judicial Coordinator 6413 or 1694

or Roman Macia at 232-0161. 
• • .. • • • -• = ••• --.. -.... -• -• -.. ---.. -........ -...... -• .. .. .. • .. • .. -... -..... -• • .. • .. .. • • -...... -~ • -~ ••• ·'. 
..• •.•. --....... -......

···············-·········-·------·-··----------··---······-·------· .. ··-·----·-· .......... --.­
The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 4 
• 

•
River City Records &Celebration Productions Present 




HEAD EAST 

special Q'tJest: 
THE ROCKETS 
Sattrrday May 5 • 8:00pm Morris Ovic Auditorium 

Tickets: $8.00/7.00 and are now on sale at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North, (3 miles North of campus) and the Morris 
• Civic Box Office. Call 277-4242 • 

T  F  
0 0  "I think I need a passport, but I can't apply until I know ~ travel plans.Apassport will be one of the last things I get before I go.  
0 0  "There is no need to write out adetailed ltlneraJY of my travels and leave It with someone else before I go. They know what countries I'm visiting, and the American EmbasSies should have no trouble finding me If there Is aproblem here at horne."  
0 0  "Drug laws in countries abroad are a lot easier than in the U.S.. and normally not well enforced."  
0 0  "No matter what happens, the U.S. Embassy can bail me out of jail or other serious trouble. Alter all ... I am an American citizen."  
. 0 0  "The best way to carry money abroad is in good old American dollars. 11 I run short, I can always cash acheck."  
0 0  "I can always po to the American Embassy if I need to have hotel or travel reservations made or if I need to cash acheck."  

11 you answered "FALSE" to all of the above, tb8n you n a seaaoned traveler wllo can probably look lorwanl to a 111ootb, successful trlp abroad. Hyou answered "TRUE" to any or all, pue read on. 
False. Apply for your passport early. The u.s. passport is good for five lears and you need not have specific travel plans at the time you apply.There are more than enough last-minute items to take care of when you'replanning atrip, without adding apassport to your list. 
False. Experienced travelers would not think of leaving the country with­out advisinQ family, friends or business associates of therr Itineraries-not only for !herr own protection and welfare, but also for their ~ace of mind and for those left at home. Each year the State Department s Citizens Emergency Center responds to thousands of welfare-~nd-whereabouts in­quiries on Americans abroad. In too many cases, farnrly and friends can only provide minimal information on the person abroad. We do our besL but it is often like looking for the proverbial needle in ahaystack. REMEMBtR­leave adetailed itineraJY. If you alter your schedule, let people back horne know of your new plans. 
False, Drug laws are generally more severe abroad, with mandatory _prison 
sentences common for possession of even the smallest amounts of marijuana.Most foreign countries stringently enforce their drug laws. If you do become involved, you're running ahigh risk of being among the 2,900 Americans arrested abroad each year, almost half on drug-related charges. BE AWARE that in many countries you need not be caught in the act of taking1 possessing or trading in drugs to be arrested and jailed. Often, simply being 10 the same room where drugs are found is sufficient to be charged. Be wary of strangers,including other Americans, who may ask you to bring packages or letters back into the U.S. There is always the chance that they contain drugs. 
False. Consular officers cannot provide your bail or qet you out of jail.Should you be arrested or run into serious difficulties wrth foreign law en­forcement authorities, you should ask that the nearest American Embassy or Consulate be advised immediately of your plight. AConsular Officer will visit or otherwise contact you as soon as possible, and offer whatever assistance he or she can. Remember ... when you travel in a foreign country, you are ' subject to the laws of that country. 
False. Carrying iarpe amounts of cash when you travel is an unnecessary
risk that is easily avmded by using travelers checks or international money
orders. Mhough major U.S. credit cards are recognized in many parts of the 

world, you should not rely on them totally. Cashing apersonal check abroad · is an impossibility in most cases. 
False. Consular Officers abroad are vitally concerned with the protectionand welfare of Americans traveling or residing overseas. If you find yourselfin trouble abroad. contact the nearest American Embassy or Consulate. They are there to advrse and help you. They cannot. however. do the work of travel agencies. banks, airlines or the local police .And they cannot serve as translators, cash checks, make and/or reconfirm hotel or travel reservations, or intervene in private commercial disputes. 
for more information, drop this coupon in the lildii todayr 




InPIRG wants chance to act; no adfllinistrative resistance 
by Dave "Sport" Brosh 
The movement grew out of the sixties. Its purpose was to blend student energy and ideal­ism with the expertise of a professional staff, 10 an attempt to play a constructive role 10 public education and social change for the betterment of citizen's lives. In this way, Public Interest Research Groups (Pirgs's) came into being. Following the mold of other PIRG' s, Notre Dame stu­dents today are striving to form the Indiana Public Interest Research Group (InPIRG). 
InPIRG is a research group whose chief role is to ~ather and distribute informanon to the community, in an effort to raise public awareness to local problems. By combining univ­ersity educational programs with their own resources of research and public education PIRG has propeled major policy decisions. This is how InPIRG will serve its chief role of protecting public interests. 
InPIRG has collected over 4,400 student signatures endor­sing InPIRG and requesting that the Board of Trustees authorize InPIRG's formation on campus. 
The Hall President's Council voted to support the formation of lnPirg at Notre Dame two weeks ago. The HPC also concurred with the student support of the requested fund­ing mechanism. Campus Min­istry recently came out ~ support of InPIRG. . 
Prof. Albert LeMay, Chair­man of t-he committee for the Student Affairs branch of the Faculty Senate, stated that, "the sense of the Faculty Senate is such that they sup­port, in principle, the formation of a chapter of InPIRG on campus." ~ 

InPIRG will be a nonpartisan, not-for-profit corporation, '-bar­tered under· the laws of the State of Indiana. InPIRG is requesting that a two dolloar refundable fee be assessed to each student each semester. This reason and the fact that it will be a state chartered corpor­ation is why InPIRG is seeking approval and recognition by the Board ofTrustees. Any student who does not wish to pay this 
NDHS elects offipers 
The Notre Dame Historical Society elected its officers for the 1979-1980 school year last night in 0'Shaugnessy Hall. ] oyce Ravnikar, a junior from Lewis Hall was elected. presi­dent, succeeding outgoing president John Cooney. : 
Elected vice president was Joe Treanor, a junior· from Fisher. The new treasurer is Paul Lewis, a Sorin junior, and the new secretary is . Bob Fiordaliso, a sophomore. from Morrissey. i 
The ND Historical Society is comprised of all history majors and other students interested in history. The society sponsors a regular series of lectures during the school year. Students interested in joining should contact Lewis at 8505. 
fee will ·be able to obtain a refund during publicized times at the beginn10g of each semes­ter. If, during any sememster, over 50 percent of the students request refunds InPIRG has agreed to voluntarily close its doors. 
The members of the InPIRG movement believe that it will significantly expand the educa­tional opportumties available to students at the university. InPIRG will also be an organiza­tion which demands great amounts of student's time. It · will strive to allow students to pursue research in areas which Interest or effect them. 
Concerning the actions of the students trying to form the group John Retd, the Director of Student Activities, stated, "I am pleasingly impressed with the students. I am impressed by the quality of their work an their determmation. I believe their motives are very good and it would really be a good learning experience. '' When speaking of the twenty-seven page InPIRG proposal he said, ''it presents a good case for a PIRG on campus." The propo­sal contains a statement of purpose, a past history of PIRG, an agreement with the board of trustees, the organization's by­
laws and the proposed budget for the group. 
The only negative comment about the group came when Reid questioned ''the appropri­ateness of a group of 30 to 40 people collecttng funds,'' from the entire student body. He stated that he would, ''prefere to see a head tax where the individual students who favor the group would support it.'' 
Dan Smith, a member of the InPIRG steering committee, stated that, "such a funding mechanism as Reid proposed would be a fast death to an Public Interest Research Group." 
A PIRG requires a tremen­dous amount of money to operate. Outside of the Execu­tive Director's salary most of the remaining funds will be channeled into research and publication. In order to do more than publish the facts, the InPIRG needs funds to initiate legal action, when necessary, to force manufacturers or retallers to respond to the public interest. 
When expressing his feelings about the group Prof. LeMay stated that, ''They want to do a good job," and that, "if they act responsibly, as these stu­dents have, they should be given the opportunity to act responsibly.' 
LeMay· had nothing but praise for the group, feeling it would be an asset to the campus, the students, and the community. In dealing with the members of the group he got the impression that they were sincerely interested in form(qg a PIRG and found, "nothing in the summary of the proposal that is irresponsible and noth­ing in it which should not be commended." 
As of today, no administrator has come out in favor of, or in oppostion to, InPIRG. 

AtSMC 

Seniors choose officers 
by Ell/en Butidy Saint Mary's Editor 

. . 
Debbie Robert, · Rosemary 
Borris,]oanie Winter and Lisa 
Harless were elected yesterday 
as next year's Senior class 
offi~;ers. Mary Mullaney, elec­
tion commissioner commented, 
''Despite the fact that only one 
ticket can win, both tickets 
achieved great success by in­
spiring such a great majonty of 
the class to take part in the 
election.'' 
Eighty-one percent of the 
] unior class turned out to vote 
yesterday, accordin~ to Mul­
laney, one of the htghest per­
centages to be recorded. 
Mullaney commended both 
tickets for such a high turnout 
because they were not aJlowed 
to campaign on paper this time, 
but only by word of mouth. 
''Both of the tickets deserve 
credit for the hard work and 
endurance they maintained 
over the past few weeks," 
Mullaney said. 
The newly elected officers 
will not officially take office 
until next year, according to 
Mullaney. But they will begin 
forming committees and organ­
izing their administration this 
week in anticipation of next 
year's events. 
Roberts had this to say about 
her victor_y, ''Both tickets 
worked extremely hard on their 
campaigns and we hope to work 
with them (Belle's Ticket) and 
the rest of the Senior class to 
have 100 percent involvement 
of the class. We are enthusias­
tic to make Senior year the best 
it can be." 
Borris added, "We appreci­ate the 81 percent which turned out yesterday to vote." 
Elain Belle, presidential can­didate of the defeated ticket said, "We wish them a lot of luck and we still wish to become involved.'' 
... Red 
[Continued from page I) 
workers and flood victims each day, said ] aclcie McCarty, a spokeswoman for the organiza­tion. 
The clay dikes were expected to save Grand Forks, population 54,000, and East Grand Forks, population 8,400, but the muddy wall had started giving way in some areas, despite the efforts of about 700 flood fighters who worked through the night in the rain. 
Hundreds of volunteers, many of whom had come from high schools in towns as far as 50 miles away, patrolled the dikes overnight, filled countless 
sandbags,  built  more  levees  
and hauled more clay.  
"We're still hanging  on  by  

an eyelash," said East Grand Forks Mayor Louis Murray. "We're very watchful, very tired, very hopeful.'' 
About 270 homes had already been flooded in the two towns by Tuesday and 2,000 residents were isolated in the Point section of East Grand Forks, getting food and sandbags by 
helicopter and boat. 
'· 

The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 5 
by Pat Toomey, Jr. StaffReporter 

The philosophy guiding cam­pus businesses appears to theObserver the same philosophy that 
guides the rest of Notre Dame. Campus businesses are oper­ated for the benefit of the

insight: 
adminstration and students are only a secondary concern. All university officials that I
Student talked to seemed to believe that students could not run a busi­ness without a great deal of supervision. In fact, Bro.

businesses 
Kieran Ryan, asst. vice-presi­dent for Business Affairs, did not believe in student-run busi­nesses at all. 
When I asked Ryan what his 


Fun at the Carnival 
Looking for a fun place to take a date this weekend? Why not try the Carnival at the Stepan Center Parking Lot Wed. -Fri., from 6-12 pm, Sat. 12-12, Sun 12-5. . 
Pie in the eye 
Want to hit someone's pretty face with a gooey An Tostal cream pie? Let out your aggressions on either a famous celeb or someone who couldn't make bail for the jail, on Thurs. from 4:30 to 6:30 beside SMC dining hall. See the likes of ] ayne Rizzo Andy McKenna, Pat Byrnes, Mike Mollinelli, Tom Behney, Carol Silva and Dennis Callahan get creamed! ! Be there to make your best hit. . 

Serf Sale 
Serf Sale! Put your meat on the market. Volunteer to be a Serf at the second annual Serf Sale. For info call Mary 288-1270, Patty 234-1735, Jay 8732 Chris 6645. 

Key toss 
The key toss will be held Frivoulous Friday near the flag 
pole. Sign up Friday 1-1:30 at the flag pole or call 8274 Jim 
or Keith. 

Sack racing 
Is racing your bag? Prove yourself in the sack! Friday pm. 

Daisies for sweethearts 
Don't forget to send your sweetie some sweet daisies! 

Put friends in jail 
Put campus criminals behind An Tostal Bars! Not the drinking kind, you fool! Behind SMC dining hall Thurs. 

Road Rally 
Yes, the An Tostal Road Rally will take place this Saturday! Bring your car, your brain and any navigators you can find 9 am Saturday. For more info call Ann 3701, Lou 3704 or Jim 287-5726. 
Ticket sale for Carnival 
Save yourself some money at this year's carnival. Pre-sale tickets are now available to all faculty, students and staff at the Student Government office. Tickets for the rides are sold in strips offive(5) for only $1.50. Regular price at the carny is $.50 a ticket. Save that money for refreshment of a different sort--run up and get those tickets before Thursday. 

Mr. Goodbar 
"Looking for Mr. Goodbar" 
Clue #3: Past N.D. Pres. John Zahm's middle initial. 
position on student merchan­dising was, he replied, "Stu­dents are here to study, not to run businesses. Although food sales exist now, I don't think that they should exist.'' 
This attitude is narrow­minded and dangerous. There are at least three ways that students benefit from having businesses which they run themselves. . Business majors can benefit from the expenence of running their own business. Students who do not qualify for financial aid can earn spending money by operating or working at these businesses. When they can buy low­can buy low-priced goods and services from student mer­chants, all students profit. 
The need for university safe­guards against dangerous or unethical student bustnesses is obvious. But I can see no other justification for the restriction 
HPC eleCts CLC, Board members 
The HPC selected its repre­sentatives to the CLC and the Board of Commissioners at its meeting last night in Stanford Hall. Paul Riehle, president of Keenan, was elected as the CLC rerresentative. Mike Tuohy o Cavanaugh and Curt Wesseln of Grace will be the two HPC representatives to the Board of Commissioners. 
Next week's meeting will be in Walsh Hall. It will be the last HPC meeting of the year. 
despite their lack of manage­ment continuity. Flanner Records was simply sold by its owners from year to year, yet, it provided quality albums at a low price for eight years. The underlying reason for the 
tight regulation of student mer­chandismg is a lack of respect for students' ability to run a business. Most adminstrators hold the paternalistic attitude that students just are not capable of handlin~ the com­plexities of operattng a busi­
ness. 

The students who have run successful businesses have demonstrated that this attitude is a' fallacy, but still this attitude persists. But, why? 
In my opinion, the fact that the administration formulates all policy on campus businesses is the key. If students had some real input towards this policy, the paternalistic attitude might end, and students might have some real freedom to run their own businesses. 
Get WICKED at NICKlES 



An Tostal 
Wicked Wednesda Happy Hour 
. ' 

NICKlES 4-6pm
I 

---I . --.. 
Dtnft Specinls*SuptiseSpecinl 
Be There! 
of student businesses. 
_ The administration argues that university businesses should protected from competi­tion because they contribute to the general fund. But, should profit be the main criterion here? Shouldn't service to the students be the main concern of these businesses? If University-run businesses need monopoly protection to succeed, then they probably are not serving the students, ade­quately. Perhaps they would do better if they were faced with some competition. According to University offi­cials, the annual turnover of management in student-run businesses is another reason to restrict them. But the few student businesses currently in operation have done a good job in replacing their managers. Student Union changes its management each year, and it still is able to provide a wide variety of services to the stu­dents. Hall food sales flourish 
!!Attention Current Transfer_Sl 
The orientation committee is looking for 1ntere~_ted students, especially current transfers, to help out with next year's incoming transfers. The committee 1s working with the off-campus council 1n planning such activities as a wine and cheese reception, bar-b-que and happy hour. It won't take much of your time and we need a lot of people so that each transfer wm 
be paired off. If you are interested call 
Lori 288-3933, John 8847 or Anne 1322 
for more information 

--~--~-------~--------.-------­




Features 
Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 6 
Larry Norman & Christian Rock 
Billy who? was the response of the 
crowd that packed the Stepan Center 
F~iday night to witness the amazing 
display of musical wizardry put on by 
the Larry Norman Band. It appeared 
that no one went home disappointed 
after the near three-hour show ofsheer 
rockin' and rollin' talent. 
Norman was backed by an able crew 
of musicians headed by Tom Howard 
on the keyboards, with Jon "Wonder­
fi~gers" Linn on the electric guitar, 
Billy Batstone of the Richie Furay 
band on bass, and Alex McDugall from 
the Daniel Amos band on the drums. 
The show started off on a mellow note 
as Tom Howad (who has recorded a 
solo album on t~e Solid Rock label) 
came out to the ptano and entertained 
the crowd with songs including ''Love 
Broke Through'' and the hit from a few 
years back, "One More Reason." 
When the band came out and cut into an impressive jam, I realized that all of thc;:m were wearing Billy ] oel tee­shirts. Some amazed onlookers couldn't believe that these men could have the audacity to wear the tee-shirt of the competition, but I was im­pressed that these musicians had enough confidence in their own abili­ties to laugh in the face of adversity. 
As a matter of fact, Howard slipped into a rendition of Billy Joel's ''I Love You Just the Way You Are" which broue:ht a roar from audience. 
In the middle of the first guitar jam, a lone figure strolled almost unnoticed onto the stage. Then the stunning lead vocalist, Larry Norman, dressed in a black fitted leather jacket and black pants which awesomely contrasted his shoulder-length blond hair, caught the gaze of every eye. · 
Some claim that Norman's music and style is somewhat similar to that of Bob Dylan or the Beatles (his first album, "Upon This Rock" has been conside:re? the "Sergean_t Pepper's" of Chnsnan rock), but 10 actuality, No~man cannot be compared to other artists. Larry Norman and his music are a unique experience unlike any other, to be taken in and appreciated as any other great musician. 
What impressed me the most about Norman and his band was that although they were as professional as -any band ever to take the floor, they have opted to forsake the money and fame of' 'Top 40'' music for something that they really believe in. This seems to be a ~are decision in today's society that thnves on the above mentioned. 
Norman does not come off as an evangelistic preacher, he simply asks an apathetic generation to think for themselves, and "not believe every­thing that you read or everyone you hear." 
The Larry Norman Band brous-ht together a novel mixture of mustcal genius and basic, honest, on-the-level 
Kelli Conlin 
beliefs. 
Norman put on a great concert and about t~e only thing that I could find to ~omplam about was the audio quality m the Stepan Center, which was certainly not the band's fault. If r-:orma~ ever visits_ the Dome again, I d ~dvtse anyo11:e 10terested in good music to check 1t out. His albums "Only Visiting This Planet," "Upo~ This Rock," "So Long Ago the Garden," '·'Street Levei," and "In Another Land," are hard to find, but well worth the purchase if you can get yout hands on them. 
With . the ~bility to mix thought­provokmg Iynes and a good audience rapport, Larry Norman created a gem of a concert that no -one who attended will easily forget. 
Andyour money says 'in God we trust' 
but it's against the law 
to pray in school 
you say we beat the russians 
to the moon 
andI say you starvedyour chzldren 
to do it 
you sa_v that all men are equal, 
all men are brothers · 
then why are the n'ch more equal 
than others 
don't ask mefor the answers 
i've only got one ' 
that a man leaves his darkness 
when hefollows the son. 


The Ghost Of Washington Hall ­
This is the second-article of a three-part series. The final install­ment will be in Fnday's OBSERVER. 
Well, two or t~ree nights later weJ heard the horn again, on schedule, and they came rush10g ,in, "I heard the ghost! He ran under my bed. I heard wings fluttering under my bed." This night Corona heard it. He came out in his bathrobe and said, ''What is this horn? Oh, my God, I hear it! Yes, you say." He had heard the wings fluttering and Dan Carr heard almost th~ very same thing. So the whole 
th10g finally got around, made the complete circuit: first me and Buck­ley, and then Hayes, then Bell, and then, I think, next was Corona, and then Casasanta, who was downstairs, and finally Carr, who was a holdout, a cynic, and who was then more frightened than· anybody when it finally dawned on him. 
So we all waltzed around and figured, "Dear God, what the heck is this? What are we going to do?" Well, we son ofaccepted it. We didn't know what it was; nobody seemed to be interested in finding out; and there was no threat connected with it; and so on. 
It came invariably in the deep of the 
night. As a rule, with some excep-~ 
tions, the horn would never blow 
before midnight. But we could not 
depend on it. It was eccentric. It came. at· various times, but always in the! middle of the night, very late. We, never saw anything. We just heard. I'm positive thiu nobody in our group ever saw any sign ofa ghost. The horn blew and then ithe sensation which all ofus seemed to feel was that there was· something fluttering on the bed up towards our ear. 
The real alarm came, however when feet began to fall and the door~ began to slam. But these were exceptional occasions. It was only about three times that we heard · footsteps, but that was enough to put; everybody, O';~ the_ q.t..The fact _that: you weren t tmag1010g 1t was verified on this one particular night, when everybody heard the horn, then1 "boom" the front door would slam,! 
then, immediately afterwards, down the hall was somebody walking. You heard the steps come down, just about like _someone coming down the hall, turnmg up, running up short flights, then turning to the right to the last two or three to the top. We could almost count their steps. And so then almost every resident of the Hall pulled his door open, expecting to see the guy at the top of the stairs. "My God, thts is going to be thie big revelation! Here he is!" But we saw nobody. All we saw was John Mangan, with ·a big club in his hand, waiting to crack the guy on the head. He was set like the last of the Acaches. 
It was the doorslamming and the stair walking that first alerted Mangan, an early go-to-bed-er and an early riser, tough old Irishman. He was so convinced when he heard the horn blow and the door slam and the guy walk up the steps that when he opened the door he thought he was going to have somebody to clobber right then and there. He was ready to do it and boy he could have. Of course he told the Sisters the next day the whole business over at the laundry. 1 
Yfle couldn't figure that whole eptsode out. But these manifestations are what made us afraid to go up and down without the taxi driver. We'd go to the movies and come back and here was the Hall, black as coal. Invariably the taxi driver would drive right up to the door of the Hall and everybody would look in their pockets, you know, "How much is it?" "All right, seventy-five cents." "Gee whiz, I haven't got the change. Would you mind coming upstairs with me? I have the right amount there in my room. . We live UJ.> here." So up the steps went the driver and he'd wait there and you'd pay him and he'd thank you and he'd stomp on down. Well, one night I came out alone in a taxi cab and I thought it was worth a try: "Would you mind ... ?" And he said, "you: want me to go up and get the change? Okay.'' And he went up right behind me. 
But the first time it was really j publicized came when Father I Crumley, a teacher and very popular 

Phil Hicks 
priest at Notre Dame, went over to make a speech to the Knights of C?lum~u~. And so Crumley, being of Insh origm, and Notre Dame being the home of the "Fighting Irish," gave them a talk on the ghosts of Ireland. And the kids (including our friend 
Buckley) were all sitting there and laughing and questioning him about whether these things had been solved or not. Crumley (who was a masterof this sort of thing) brushed it all aside: 
-"Well, after all, that's in Ireland, and fortunately we are not preplexed by any of these kinds of problems." Well, that was too much for Buckley. He could not contain himself any longer and he was the speechmaking type, so he rose and said,. "Well Father, it may surprise you to know that there is a ghost at Notre Dame!" Then he embellished the blowing of the ~lOrn .. ' 'This has us all puzzled, but don t think these things are just confined to Ireland.'' 
The next day the story of the ghost of Washington Hall was all over campus. Everybody was jumping 00 anybody who lived in Washington ~~ll: "Tell us about the ghost. Where 
Is It? How can I hear it?" We were strict about the representations, be­c~use, after all, other people had also witnessed them. We couldn't exag­gerate; there were too many witnesses to the thing. But from then on it was a real field day because very frequently people would start making arrange­ments to be there when it blew, because they wanted to hear it. Jhe halls dosed at ten o'clock, but stu­dents still wanted to spend the night. So some of the more mature students began to come up and sleep on the floor in the band room. The word got out in town and people in South Bend we~e interested in seeing this manifes­tattoo. Some of these pros the cynics: "Where is this thing? what are you talking about? This is a big hoax!" 
So for the benefit of those people we had bunks out there; otherwise we had guys sleeping on the floor. I'll never forget them: two horrible looking iron beds laying over there in the corner of the band room. These people would come in and stretch out to go to sleep, 

LeMans Meeting 
SMC: 


WRITE!!! 

Are accomplished writers at SMC wading in a sea of anonymity? 
Rumor has it that talented writers at SMC are mad as hallelujah and are not going to take it anymore. 
To alleviate this glaring discre­pancy, the Features Editor at the Observer, in covert collusion with the SMC Editor, has arranged for a meeting this Thursday evening for all women interested in writing for the Observer next year. · . If you are a gifted writer, why keep 1t to yourself? If you're an aspiring writer, this could be your lucky break. If you're a horrific writer, and want. to achieve a certain level of acceptable mediocrity, come along. 
The meeting is being, held in the LeMans Hall lobby (near the pool table) at 7:30 tomorrow night. There should be posters indicating the exact area where the meeting is being held. If you can't find us, scream--at least you'll get attention. 
Anyone interested in the arts--film, theatre, and special cultural events-­are strongly urged to attend. Women are needed for contributions in music (reviews of concerts and albums), cre3:tive writing, non-fiction prose, 
~a~hton, satire and all humorous. expos­ltlon, and general human interest stories. 
~~ofessors of englis},.. and other wnttng a_reas are requested fu encour­age thetr students to attend this wonderful meeting. A splendid time is guaranteed for all. 
The Features Editor, Chris Stewart, an~ the SM€ Editor, Ellen Buddy, will be 10 attendance to answer all queries. Iffor any reason you will not be able to attend, but want to become the next Vonnegut, Hemingway, or Wolfe, call Ellen at (SMC) 5411 or Chris at the Observer, 7471 or 1715.. 
This could be the beginnin~ of a thoroughly enjoyable relationship. 
~----:--~-~-:--------1 
but we had worked up a routine. There was a fellow by the name of Pat Maguire, who later became a priest, a tremendously Irish fellow, full of jokes. Maguire would come up and sit 
with us and talk about a ghost at Oxford or someplace where he was in England. People would say, "We've come to see a ~host." "Well, he's just one of a species you know." So we began tellmg some of Pat's stories, Irish accounts of the ghost that galloped through the room. We were putting them in the frame of mind so they could really appreciate what they heard, not with any intention of doing anything artificial. But these guys would all sit there, paralyzed with fear by the time they went up to listen to the ghost. 
You'd go out there and there they would be. The horn might not blow at all for them. (It was an eccentric thing, remember.) Then they'd come back out and say, ''This is all a hoax. I was there two nights in succession. There is no horn." Then "boom" the horn came and sometimes somebody was there and sometimes nobody was there. In fact, I don't remember if any of those who slep over were ever rewarded by hearing the horn, except Young and Cavanaugh. 
This was the climax of that arrange­ment, when John Cavanaugh came over with a fellow named Dan Young, one of the few surviving witnesses of; this whole deal. Cavanaugh later i became a priest and president of Notre J Dame, but he wasn't anybody then, just ···John." They were partners inone1 of these all night vigils. Cavanaugh and Young disappeared out into the band room; we told them goodnight; and that was all that was said. I remember I was already asleep. Then all of a sudden, there was ''bangbang­bangbangbang'' on the door and I woke up. And of course I knew who it was: "Yes! Oh my heavens, It's 
John!" To be continued. 
The Observer 

Senior Accounting "major Matt Hans watt;/;/s carefully as he is measured for his cap and gown yesterd~ at the Bookstore. [Photo by Mark Muench] · · 
. . ........ An Tostal· 
[Continued from page 3] 
produced a play by the title ''Gentle Thursday'' on the Memorial Library lawn the year bef~re, to start the day's hap­penmgs.
J.T. Lyons livened up the 1970 An Tostal with a 6 hour and .N minute kiss. He and his unnamed partner won the first Kissing Marathon, which speci­fied that a kiss be continuous and involve· only lip contact. The slave auction was begun that year, as was the Irish Wake. 
The Wake was different at its inception than it is today. $3 bought all the beer one could drink at the South Bend Ar­mory. The Armory parties were continued until 1974 when a court decision was announced making no distinction between giving and selling alcohol to minors, and holding the party that had provided the ltquor responsible for damages in­curred. Under then-Dean of Students John Macheca, the Wake was transferred back to Stepan and a catered buffet supper was offered instead. It has been held at Stepan Center 
Applications now being accepted for 
.,.._....,.~LSAC---~ 

Arts & Lettets Student Advisoty Council 
call: 
Paul Lewis 8505 Diane Rice 7938 

Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 7 

CLC position causes discussion --· 

since then. · In 1971 the Chariot Races were added, in 1972 the James 
E. Brogan award was given for the first time (when the all-male Lyons Hall entered an elephant in a tug-of-war), and in 1974 the Ugly Man on C11mpus contest was sponsored by the Alpha Phi Omega Fraternity to raise money for Muscular Dystrophy, Logan Center, and other chari­ties. 
Favorite events started in recent years include Recess 101 ('75), Pie-in-the-Eye Assasin Services ('76), the circus ('77), and In Loco Parentis ('78). 
This year the tradition of new events continues, according to present An Tostal chairman Paul Callahan, with two frisbee shows, an expanded carnival, and human backgammon. As always, old favorites such as Bookstore Basketball will coo­tinue. Participation of all is encouraged by the An T~ committee, as "history is in tk making.'' 
by Kathy Connelly Senior Copy Editor 
New members of the Campus Life Council were formally introduced at last night's CLC meeting in Planner Hall. 
Three of the four hall vice­president member positions will be filled by Tom Yacovino of Alumni, Erin O'Connor of 
Lyons,  and  Mike  Turzai  of  
Keenan.  
The fourth  spot  was  tenta­ 

tively split between Joe Cur­letta of Planner and Mike Sexton of Zahm, who are to attend meetings on alternate weeks and share one vote. 
Objections were raised last night, however, that this divi­sion of one representative posi­tion would add a fifth student voice to the body. 
It was argued that the main concern of the CLC was debate of student-related issues and that the composition of the CLC, as written in their consti­tution, is carefully balanced to be fair to all groups. Several CLC members were concerned that five different hall vice­presidential representatives would tip the balance in favor of the hall representatives. 
The council advised that an alternate solution be found to the shared position problem, which resulted from a deadlock among hall vice-presidents. 
Hall rectors will send six representative to the council. Fr. Dave Porterfied from Sorin, Sr. Kathleen Rossman from Walsh, Bro. Charles Burke from Grace, Sr. Verene Grim­scheid from Badin, Fr. Richard Conyers frorrt Keenan and Moira Baker from Lewis were selected in a meeting of hall rectors. 
Student Government, Stu­dent Union, the HPC, the Judicial Commission and Off­Campus students will each send one r~r.resentative each to the COUnCl . 
Bill Roche, Student Body President, will represent Stu­dent Government and Tim Coughlin, Social Commis­sioner, will represent Student Union. Lou Moran, the presi­dent of Kennan Hall was selected by the HPC as its representative. 
The Judicial Council will be represented by Jim O'Hare, Judicial Coordinator. 
Shannon Neville was elected off-campus representative in 
accordance  with  the  referen­ 
dum  pas.sed  by  the  student  
boyd  whfch  provides  for  the  

addition of an off-campus representative to the CLC. 
Roche will serve as chairman of the CLC until next fall when the .Council will hold an election 
Hunger Coalition elects officers 
The World Hunger Coalition recently elected new officers. The new coordinator is Mike Stegman and the assistant co­ordinator is Lou Reifen­schneider. The two · were chosen by the old director's council. 
The coordinators nominated the rest of the officers April 22. They are: Carrie Britt, Saint Mary's director; Sara Yang, education director; Mimi Har­ris, fund raising director; Char­lie Brown, liturgy; Christine Lanzinger, public relations di­rector; Ishmael Muvingi, re­search director; Tim Boeglin, secretary treasurer, and Caro­lyn Casey, social director. 
If there are any qt estions about the Hunger Coalition, contact any of the new officers. 


SUMMER STORAGE 
MASTER MINI WAREHOUSES 
' 
TWO LOCATIONS: US 31 AT MICH.STATE LINE 2034 US 31 -NILES 
* 24-HOlJR SECURITY* Live in Caretaker • Fenced • Well Lighted 
' 


683-1959 683-8505 684-6431 

I 
for the position. In the two years of the existence of the CLC, the Student Body Presi­dent has held the post of chairman. 
Roche hopes that the CLC wil be vocal and active in the commg year. 
''The CLC has to be taken seriously by ·students and' adminstration and that's not going to happen unless we make the Council work hard and we II," Roche said. "We've got to earn their respect." 
HE added that one of the goals of the CLC is to give the body a sense of stability and continuity in the next academic year. 

ROCCOS 
I 

men's hairstyling_ at comfortable prices 
531 N. ffilchigan 
233-4957 

ATTENTION 
GRADUATING 

STUDENTS 

Measurements 
will be taken 
for 

CAPS and GOWNS 

Tuesday 
April 24th 
and 
·Wednesday 


April 25th 
between 
9:00-4:30 
at the 



NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
e bookstore & the CCT]M office-11th Proceedings o the --+-LATIN AMERICAN OISJ-OPS' CONFEREI'K:E, Puebla,Mzxico 100 pages of the final document translated during the last days of the meeting . . . . . Chapters on: VISION OF THE CHURCH • FAMILY • CHRIST, THE CENTER OF HISTORY • HUMAN DIGNITY • LIBERATION AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT • IDEOLOGIES AND POLITICS • EVANGELIZATION • PREFERENTIAL OPTION FOR THE POOR • BASIC COMMUNITIES PARISH LOCAL CHURCH e • LAITY. CHURCH'S ACTIONS AMONG BUILDERS OF A PLURALISTIC SOCIETY. INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY • PASTORAL OPTIONS e Cost: $3  


-------~~~-~~-------~~~­
·-­
The Observer 




SMC Education Deptartrnen.t to undergo curriculum. changes 
by Beth Huffman courses, ''Education of the participate in "supervised ex­Young Child,'' is set for the fall perience working in a kinder­The Department ofEducatio~ semester of the education ma-garten.'' at Saint. Mary's will undergo jor's junior year. ­
In information released bymajor changes in its curriculum The three-credit hour course the Education Department, thebeginning in the fall semester is outlined to cover "the educa­''Reading Minor'' was outlineddue to a revision in Indiana tion and development of child­with "the purpose of preparingState law. ren from birth to seven years of professional education students The new law, number 46.47, age. Opportunities are provid­for teaching certification inwhich replaces the old Indiana ed for the development of skills Reading. The entire sequencelaw number 400, requires ma­to aid parents in guiding their leads

jors in special education and y_oung ch~ldren. Special atten­to Reading certification, 
and electives in the pro~ramearly childhood studies. tion ts gtven to the areas of offer specialized professtonalBeing a liberal arts college, physical and mental health, skills that would add su_[>port toSaint Mary's cannot offer indi­safety and nutrition, classroom any teaching credential.'' 

vidual majors in· these fields. management and environ­To comply with the new ment.'' 
For Elementary Educationstatute, Satnt Mary's will offer During the spring semester, majors, the following coursesclasses called ''The Kindergar­a junior education major will be must be added to thecurriculum: ten Endorsement'' and ''The required to take ''Cognitive, ''Reading and the CulturallyReading Minor." Creative and Affective Exper­Different,'' ''Reading in theAs defined in the depart­iences for the Young Child,'' Content Areas,'' ''Practicum in ment's course outline, "the another three-credit hour Reading," and "Seminar in purpose of Kindergarten En­course. 

Reading.'' These-courses must dorsement is to prepare for According to the outline, this be taken in addition to theprofessional certification in kin­course will deal with the "theo­required 3 7 credits of profes­dergarten. This sequence of retical and practical aspects of sional education requirements. 

courses forming the Kindergar­development as they ap_(>ly to ten Endorsement curriCulum curricululll'lanning for ktnder­The Secondary Education adds a broader scope to the one garten. Applications are made program will add 18 credit through sixth grade Elementary to planning and evaluating hours to the already requiredEducation Certification.'' teachingIlearning experiences 25. The additional courses for 
To receive Kindergarten cert­and determining content in the this field of study will be ification, a Saint Mary's stu­areas of science, language arts, "Developmental Reading: El­dent must add ten credit hours mathematics, music, art, litera­ementary," '"Children's Litera­to her course of study in ture and play." ture," "Reading and the Cul­addition to the nine credit hours The final four credit hours of turally Different," "Corrective required for Elementary Certifi· the kindergarten field of study Reading,'' ''Practicum in Read­cation. will be fulfilled in the spring of ing, " and "Seminar in Read­
The first of the new required · senior year. The student will ing." 

Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 8 
Pangborn ~ B-P 

I 

IF~~~~ 
at 

carn:u~LEIFI:Pm ~~ 
I 

TONITE! APRIL 25 
9:00 pm -2:00 am 
I 
// 
/ :' 
'~ 

$2.00/person ~ 
Buses will leave main circle every 30 minutes starting at 10 pm 
appltcattons aR€ B€tnq aCC€Pt€0 ~o~ th€ pos1t1ons o~ 
hpc secnetany ano €X€CutiV€ COOROtnatOR 
apply at th€ StU0€nt GOV€Rnm€Tlt orriC€S OR call €ll€Tl 0oRn€Y at 6922 BY W€0aJ)Ril 25th 


Militiamen stop assassination of Prime Minister Bazargan 
1EHRAN, Iran (AP) -Rev­olutionary militiamen foiled an assassination attempt against Prime Minister Mehdi Bazar­gan and other top government 
leaders  yesterday  witnesses  
said.  
They  said  the  militiamen  

wrested a hand grenade from a 
man who tried to throw it at the . -1eaders and kicked him to the 
ground as he attempted unsuc­
cessfully to ftre a sub-machine 
gun. Militiamen hustled the 
72Jear-old Bazar~an to safety 
an took the untdentified at­
tacker and at least one other 
person into custody, they said. 
Bazargan and other leaders of the provisional revolutionary government were marching in the funeral procession of mur­dered Gen. Mohammad Vali Gharani when the attack took place. 
Gharani, the ftrst army chief of staff appointed after last February's revolution, was killed in his garden Monday by two assassins who escaped. He was the first major figure of the revolution to be assassinated. 
A government aide denied to reporters that an assassination attempt against Bazargan had taken place. But reporters saw the disarming of the unidenti· fied man who, they said, wore an air force uniform, and saw him and at least one other person taken into custody. 
Witnesses said the man ftrst tried to hurl the grenade from about 100 feet away, but it was knocked from his hands by security men. He then raised the sub-machine gun in an apparent attempt to fire but was kicked to the pavement before he could do so, they said. 
There was no indication of who the unidentified man was. 

Members of the air force have been loyal to Ayatollah Ruhol­lah Khomeini, religious leader of the revolution that ended Shah Mohammad Reza Pah­lavi's monarchy, and to the Bazargan government appoint­ed by Khomeini. Air force men often stand guard duty at Bazar~an' s offices. 
Mihtary uniforms are freely available in Tehran, and the gunman could have chosen air force clothing to blend in with some of Bazargan's guards in / yesterday's march. . 
There was no immediatct explanation of the attack on the pnme minister who in recent weeks has been soft-pedalipg his criticism of the executions by Khomeini's revolutionary courts. 
In the northwestern town of Naghadeh, meanwhile,· the third government-sponsored cease-fire in as many days appeared to be holding. 





Logan Center holds annual catnping trip 
by Mary Massey 

Thirty-five volunteers from the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community had a ''different change of pace this weekend at our tenth annual camping trip," accordin~ to Michael wolohan, co-chatrperson of the ND-SMC Council for the Re­tarded. 
:These volunteers aided 75 campers, ages 5 to 60, on Saturday and Sunday at Camp Tamarack, a Boy Scout Camp near Jones, MI. 
Activities varied from camp­ftre singing to softball ~ames. Guitar auets, story-telhng and piano "concerts" were among the acts in a talent show on Saturday evening sponsored by the volunteers. 
Rain interrupted the activi­ties for the first hour after arrival at . the camp. "The weather cleared on Saturday afternoon and was great on Sunday. We took a hike and discovered a totem pole, prob­ably built by some boy scouts," Wolohan explained. 
Walter Bankowski and Ed­ward .Loughery, n~xt r.ear: s co-chatrmen of the Counctl, wtll continue this annual event. 
Wolohan concluded, "The camp-out was a vei.y successful trip that the kids :from Logan Center look forward to every year. It is a great way to spend a weekend off-campus." 
'80 Seniors extend trip 
The Senior Class Trip committee of the Class of 1980 has announced that Ia change 
has b-een made in th~length of 
the trip to Acapulco. 
The Committee con ucted an informal survey amo present Notre Dame and Saint Mary's juniors concerning the length of the trip, and due to an over­whelmmg response, the trip has been extended to seven nights and eight days (Oct. 21-28). 


S~ortsbriefs 
Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 9 
..... 

seconds, while the Junior Varsity Men's unit fell, 9.0 seconds behind the Grand Valley State boat.Lacrosse team remains undefeated THe club turned things around on Sunday as they swept all six races in East Lansing. The Varsity Men demolished the 
• • . Sweet 16
The Notre Dame LaCrosse Club extended its record to 8-0 Spartans by a whopping 45 seconds. Other results were justduring the .Past week, scoring an important 9-5 victory over as impressive as the Varsity Women, Junior Varsity Men,the Wolvennes of the University of Michigan and also a 16-2 and two Freshman Men's boats won thetr respective heats byromp over the University of Illinois. 
over 20 seconds each. The Freshman Women made it a clean 

[continued from page 12)
Wednesday night under the lights in An~ Arbor, .MI the 
sweep, coasting to a 15 second victory. 

Cahill's six was high for the The Wolverines were very talented and had beaten the Insh After the Michigan State meet, the eight Varsity oarsmen 
Irish faced one of the most powerful teams m the mtdw~st. 
freshmen guys. the past four consecutive seasons. Revenge was in order as performed the customary act of tossing their coxswain Bill 
In other scores, Peace, Love... Notre Dame drew first blood, scoring within seconds of the McKay into the water for the ftrst time, in celebration of the 
defeated Beemis, 21-19. Off opening faceoff and never gave up the lead. The Notre Dame victory. 
dumped The Irish Guards II, defense in yet another strong peiformance, shutting down a "We're really psyched," was coach Clete Graham's 
21-17. It was the Pit Crew 21, supposedly potent Michigan attack. Special mention should exuberant response to the victory. "Now we're looking 
Who Cares 16 and TheE Street go to Semor Defensmen John Mandico, Jim Williams and forward to next weekend's championship~." 
Band defeated SMC ·. Kama­John Vercruysee. Leading the offense for Notre Dame were The Midwest R<;>wing Championships are this coming 
ka~e whipped Dew Boys 21-15 Senior Attackmen Tim Walsh and John Romanelli, who each while John Gacy's Home andSaturday in Madison, Wis. Last year's meet attracted 22 scored two goals. Scoring once each were Nick Gehring, Paul Numnuts both wound up win­
clubs and over 700 competitors.

Rizzo, Tim Michels, Mike Norton and John Gray. 
ners to round out this year'sOn Stepan Field Sunday, the Irish broke open the game Bookstore "Sweet Sixteen." 
early and destroyed Illinos 16-2. Notre Dame got off to a sluggish start, but the Irish picked up the pace 3:n? gave Illinois a lesson on how to score goals. The dazed Illtnt never 

Belles sweep weekend doubleheader
had a chance to untrack their defense as the Notre Dame scoring came mainly from fast breaks and unsettled 
by Beth Huffman their first loss of the season. ning at 2 pm. 
situations. 
Women's Sports Editor The Belles gave up seven errors SEASON NOTES -Diana Even the defense got into a little offense as John and ten walks in the game, Klucka's 5-8 performanceVeroruysee had an assist and Maurice Beshlian had a shot off Saint Francis of Fort Wayne losing 7-4. boosts her season batting aver­the pipe. Goalie Mark Tallmadge made some good saves, fell prey to the Saint Mary's Upcoming contests for the team age to . 5 S 5 -~ Klucka alsoonly allowing 2 goals, while stopping 17 shots. Mike Caron nabbed seven stolen bases forsoftball team as the Belles include a doubleheader atand Timmy Walsh scored 3 soals aoiece, and Mike Lynch swept a double header Monday. Bethel on Friday and a double­the day giving her an impres­and Carl Lundblad each tallted twice. Nick Gehring and Game number one, a 14-6 header tentatively scheduled at sive season total of 20 in five midfielders John Gray, Paul Rizzo and Brett Jackson all games.
romp, gave the win to Belles' Notre Dame on Sunday, begin-scored a goal each. . 

pitcher Diana Klucka, who gave 

The next contest for the Irish will be against Michtgan 
up two earned runs on six hits. 

State on Stepan Field today at 3:30p.m. Then on An Tostal 
Freshman M.J. Murray col­

Saturday Notre Dame will take on Ashland College, one of 
Campus Press
lected the win in the second

the top-ranked varsity teams in the NCAA Divison II. That 
game, giving up one hit and an

game will begin at 12 noon. 
Girl wanted to take /fill orders
unearned run in a 7-1 victory. Murray pushed her season record to 3-1 with the win and 


and do other office work for 
evened her ERA at 2.00. The two wins raised Saint Mary's 


'79 -'80 year. 
season record to 4-1. The first match-up of the twin bill looked dim for the Belles as 

Paid position. Needed 1·5 cm.rnwf or tt
they trailed going into the fifth inmng, but a spectacular ten run inning gave the Belles their 

Call office at 7047
run-away win. Diana Klucka, along with her class pitching, 

by Monday April 30.
went three for four in the contest to lead the squad. Mary Dornbos provided the defensive flair, setting a Saint Mary's record of eight put-outs for the game in left field. . 
Game number two, paced by Murray's strong pitchtng, was easily taken by the Belles. 
1980
Ahead 3-1 with the bases loaded in the bottom of the

The lacrosse team is undefeated this season, sporting an 8-0 
sixth,Marv Dornbos broke the

overall record. 
game wide open for Saint Mary's by pounding a triple.


Irish gain places at Ball State 
Dornbos later scored in · the The Notre Dame women's track team collected four third 
inning, contributing to all of the places and one fourth at the Ball State Invitational, held last 
Belles' four runs in the inning. Saturday. Taking third were Jane Ahern, who ran the 
Liz Aerts, returning from an 5000 meters in 21:00, Helen Weber, who finished the 1500 
injury, looked strong at second meters in 5:2.1.0, Eunie Sullivan, third in the 3000 meters in 
base, according to the Belles' 11:32, and the 1600 meter relay team of Sullivan, Ahern, and 
coach, Anthony Black. Mary Jackie and Bernie Bollas. Jackie Bollas also took fourth in 
Beth Hosinskt aitd Tammy the long jump for the only Irish placer in the field events. 
Daws both contributed heavily Host team Indiana Central was victorious in aquadrangular 
to the offensive attack, each meet heldApril \O)ut five first place finishers in the running 
tapping several· key hits. events helped boost Notre Dame to second in the meet. The 
Last Thursday the Belles faced Irish were followed by Mount St. Joseph's and Bellarmine. 
Grace College in an error-rid­Jackie Bollas, a freshman from Louisville, OH, had a part in 
den game, and they suffered £Our of the five firsts. Bollas won the 220~yard dash, and also participated in three winning relay teams. In the 440-relay, she teamed up with sister Bernie Bollas, Ann Torre, and Sullivan for the win. The Bollas sisters, along with Torre and Kathy Gutherie took first in the 880-yard medley relay, and 


Runner 

Jackie and Bernie also took pan in the victorious mile relay team, along with Sulllivan and Weber. Ahern had the only other individual win for the Irish, as she 
(continued from page 12] 

won the two mile run. 
Also turning in strong per­A second place finish by Sheryl Kearns was tops for Notre 
formances but failing to placeDame in the field events. J ackte Bollas added ano~her place 
were Tony Hatherly (3:52.9 in by taking third in the long jump. 

the 1500 meters), Man: Novak 
(14:30 in the 5000 meters), Tim 
....La'...... 

your help,we can't afford to win.
Twardzik (53.9 in the 400 meter intermediate hurdles) and Tim 

Crew team splits two meets 
Make check payable to U.S. Olympic Comm1ttee.
by john Smith 
Macauley (1:54.7 in the 800 P.O. Box 1980-P, Cathedral Stat1on, Boston, MA 02118
Sports Wr;iter 
meters). 
Name
This coming Friday and Sat­

Last weekend Notre Dame's Crew Club made their final urday fourteen Irish team mem­Addresspreparations for the Midwest Rowing Championships. The 
bers will be competing at the

Irish competed in a pair of dual meets versus Grand Valley 
~ity.______
Drake Relays, one of the top

State College on Saturday, and against Michigan State on 
relay meets of the outdoor 

State Zip
Sunday. 
season. "The competition

On Saturday in Grand Rapids, Mich., the Irish entered five 
A$.___ Please send me the symbol of support checked below.
there is alot stronger than the

boats. The Varsity Men rowers came away with the only 
contribution D Stickpin ($10) D Tote Bag ($25) D Desk Spinner
Kansas Relays (where the Irish 

victory, winnin~ by 8.4 seconds. The Varsity Women and 
is enclosed. lJ Pendant ($25) D Visor Cap ($25) ($50)
competed last weekend),''

Freshman Mens team were each defeated 5.0 seconds. 
Your contnbutton ts tax-deductible

Piane said.
The Freshman Women were 

~-~----------------------~---~~ 


The Observer --Sports Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 10 


The Dally Crossword 


Molarity 
£/711£!1 7JIEY'RE FILLED, DEMAND A FJJE·REQUISITE 





michael & co. Hair Concepts Hair design for Men &Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care· open late tues.-thurs. 8 pm North 1/2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 Sollth 20.1 E. Ireland. (lt Ironwood 
291-1001 

master cha visa 
ACROSS 26 Time for 46 Thins 12 Fish-eating 1 Essential the finish­48 Israeli bird point ing kick dance 13 Furniture 5 Hotbever-29 Curt 49 College material age 32 Mont Blanc, in N.C. 18 Spoken
10 Distort e.g. 50 Cavein 22 Clod 14 Otherwise 33 At the same 54 Zephyr 24 Orb 15 Would-be time 58 "The-26 -lazuli 

oak 35 Sturm-Love" 27 Miss Ghost­16 Dromeor Orang 59 Renders ley
plane 36 -Piper 280 28 Mum 17 Bemum ~ SHAEFarea 61 "-for 29 Fair-haired 19 Foreign: 38 Useteeth Life" 30 Loosen 

pref. 39 Frost 62 Church 31 Anthony and 20 Traduces 40 Headof official Barbara 21 Bounded the brood 63 Springe 34 Mineral 
along 43 Control 64 Thessalon­ending23 Snoozes 44 Remove from ian peak 38 Dark-haired 25 Billions social 65 Spacious 40 Aqua-
of years contact 66 Wriggling 41 Mechanical device · 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


DOWN 42 Two-wheeled 1 Clutter carriage 2 Biblical 45 Nabokov's 
land nymphet 3 "-sow ... " 47 Body of 4 Inhabited knowledge 5 Dupe 50 Neighbor 6 Dundee of Wyo. 
exclamation 51 Burden 7 Electrical 52 Unaided conductor 53 Within: 
8 Yes-pref. (choice 55 Colleen's words) land 

9 Fishermen 56 Enthusiasm 10 Britishers Sl Make out 11 Is mum 60 Bijou 
Michael Molinelli 

Gary Trudeau 

HAS LOWEST STEREO

r----------------------------1
SENIOR CLASS 1 BASEBALL ADVENTURE I Sunday, may 13 II 
Technics SL3300 Turntable $125 Akai CS702D Cassette $125

Whi-te Sox vs. K.C. TICKETS sn.oo I 
Our Free Catalog has many more deals on major brands. even lower prices on our 

on sale Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday I 
monthly specials sheet. Send now and 
find out how to buy current $7.981ist lp's 
tor $3.69. Stereo Clearance House Dept

(Aprfl 24, 25, 26) 12:30-2 pm in Lafortune! 
CH81, 1029 Jacoby St.. Johnstown, Pa. 1.5902. _Phone Quotes 814-536-1611 

~-~-------------------~-----~ 


Any 3 J7.98 LP's only J14.50 Any 3 S8.98 LP's only J17.00 Double LP's Specially oriced too Flanner Records 4:00-5:00 pm 603 Flanner Hours ffion-Thurs Phone 4256 6:30-8:00 m . 
... Semis 
[continued from page 12) 
ing ten for AOT, and women's Bookstore commissioner Mary Ryan added five points for the winners. Cindy Bate! was high for no. 8, as she tallied five points. 
·In another quarterfinal game yesterday, Bucket Brigade downed SMC no. 2, 21-13. Due to the pouring rain during this contest, official scoring was not available, but Roberta Zmuda was probably the high scorer for the Brigade. 
The other semi-finalists will be the Splinters, who defeated Send in the Clowns in the closest contest of the day, 21-17. Ann McRedmond was tops for the Splinters with nine points, but Missy Conboy turned in a stellar effort in a losing cause, tallying ten points for the Clowns. · ; 
The semifinals games for women's Bookstore will be held this Friday on the courts behind the Bookstore. At 4 p.m., Any Old Thing will take on the Splinters, followed by the Notre Darners vs. the Bucket Brigade at 4:45. 
... Kelly 
[continued from page 12] 
ftlm and · receiving monetary rewards for his talents, they classified Kelly as a profes­sional athlete, therefore making him ineligible to compete in the amateur college ranks. Marc received notice prior to the Elayoff game against Tolt;d.o that he was unable to parttcl­pate in the remaining basket· ball games. Kelly was a little displeased, to say the least, with the ruling by the NCAA. 
''I was asked to make the film in high school and I signed the contract then.. I was told that this would not happen,'' com­mented the 5-10 freshman. "I had a great time making the movie, but if I had known that this would happen, I would not have even made the movie." 
As basketball games often change pace, so did the attitude of the NCAA. The}' sent Marc a letter stating that if he returned the money, they would allow him to continue his college basketball career. Placing greater importance on his adi­
-fetic career and showing that money isn't everything Marc promftly retur~ed the ~550 to Rega Producnons, the com­pany that sold the film to Columbia Pictures. When asked about his future plans, the talented freshman Jokingly retorted, "I_'m defin­itely out of the mov1e makmg business." But Marc's face and athletic skills are still being shown on movie screen across the nation and his name still appears among the cast of actors. 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE 


.................... " ..... ··:r-......, -... -................. ·.• &"& .......................~...... ~...-.... ,.-...~...... .... • • .......................... " ..·-. ............... ~·........... ., • t ••• ~,.. ,. ..... -........ ··"' ~-·-······· ......................_._ ............... ~.·-········· ~ ....... t 
, 
< 

I 
i 

TT~he~O~b=~==e=r~-tS:po:r=~~---------------------------------W--d---d---A--pr_il_2_5 1_97_9 1_1 

For Rent 
2-single furnished kitchenettes available tor summer. Close by ND. Call272-6174. 
Inexpensive rent this summer, furnished houses close to school. 277-3604. 
Rooms $40 mo. summer or tall. Near rides. 233-1329. 
Mature Students! Unique opportunity to share large fur­nished home near campus. $130 includes monthly room and other furnishings, 289-0103 nights. 

e nes ay, -page 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the 1ssue 1n wh1ch the ad IS run. The Observer office will accept class1f1eds Monday through friday. tO:OO a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All cla~:.1heds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail 
Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work Who is Amphytrion. 
at home--no experience necessary--excel­lent pay. Write America! Service. 8350 
Need ride to Madison, Wisconsin, this Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas, TX 75231 
weekend or next. Call Don 1684. 
For Sale -­
Moving sale--sofa-bed, curtains, plants, pictures, bookcase, desk, file cabinet, band arrangements, call after 9 p.m., 272-6517 
1975 Triumph Spitfire Convertible: 26,000 miles, yellow with side stripes. Great shape, $2,875.00. 288-8801 
For sale: 1.1 cubic foot refrigerator. Like 
Orest was poorest but YOCIUS IS ATROCIOUS 
Am!:ytrion ...is... "Beside himself with AN R." 
The ~rts and Letters student advisory council wants youI Applications baing accepted now for next year's members. Call Paul Lewis at 8505 or Diana Rica at 7938 
VOCIUS--He even sounds ugly. 

Do you know someone who looks like a cross between Bella Abzug and Moshe Dayan? ­
Vote UMOC Equal Opportunity 

Dear Scoop, Congratulations! You have succeeded In maintaining your existence for 20 years without being destroyed by the Bomb. Hope you have a Happy Birthday and that your wonderful being continues to exist ad Infinitum. 
Love always, Margie 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED ON THE "ASSASSINATE MATICH NOWI" 
, 

Wednesday, April 25, 1979-page 12
SRorts 
In Bookstore b-ball 
'Sweet Sixteen' faces off today 
by Frank LaGrotta Lyons Hall. Point guard Dave losers in that one: Right· 
Sports Wn.ter ''Alex'' Marcel dished out next door, Dags were enroute to 
seven assists for the winners upsetting number-seven ranked 

The field for Bookstore VIII while Brian Carey's six points T B Express II by a score of reached the "Sweet Six­topped White Shadow's box­21-12. Mike Wood led Dags teen'' level yesterday after­score. with seven points, while Terry noon with most of the tourna­Strappamasquon and His Com­Aselage chipped in five. · Jim ment' favorites advancing to bat Wombats defeated Ques­Stone's four was high for the championship_ play.. T~e six­tion Mark, 21-18, with Pete losers. teen octafinablsts will v1e for a Holohan's eight points topping Number-eight ranked P.F. and 
spot in Bookstore Basketball's the winners' list. Greg Knafelc the Flyers defeated The Inno­"Elite Eight" starring this dropped in five for the number cent Puppets, 21-16, with Jeff afternoon at 4:30. All oftoday's four-seeded Wombats, while Hannipel hitting seven for the games will be played behind Gary Hankamer had six for the Flyers to lead the charge. Mike the bookstore. Question Marks. Morris had seven rebounds for 
The tournament's number one­Elsewhere, Later WEB dump-the winners, while Pete Boland seeded squad, The Butchers, had seven points and 11 boards had their hands full with Wally, for the Innocent Puppets. Wally, Wally ... , but the inside Bookstore pairings, Larry's Laundrymen, number­play of Bruce Flowers netted a nine ranked in the pre-season 21-17 win for the favorites. ratings, dumped Drewbies, 21­Flowers hit nine of 16 attempts 15. Jim Kelly had seven and
schedule--page 11

from the pavement and_ pulled Bob Kennedy five for Larry's 
down 12 rebounds, whde Hal boys, while Jim Ambrey's four 
Brand dazzled the capacity pomts led the losers. 
crowd with deadeye perimeter In the only other game involv­
shooting including a couple ed Future World Leaders, 21-i 7 ing top-ranked teams, number 
long shots from 30 feet. Brand as Charlie Durocher hit all five 10-rated Five Freshmen Guys 
finished with eight points on 17 of his attempts from the field. Who Won't Go Far, etc. etc. 
attempts for the losers. Kevin Dix also had five points went farther than they expect­
It was a little easier for while Bill Stapleton's seven ed, but they lost yesterday to Chumps, as they earned their buckets were high for the Stevie Wonder, 21-12. Mark "Sweet Sixteen" post by virtue Leaders. Shepard led Stevie Wonder of a 21-13 win over White BiiiLaimbeer continued to dom­with nine points, while Mike 
Muenc.6.-]

Shadow. Tommy "Tr~ck" inate the Stepan courts as he hit [continued on page 9]McLaughlin dropped in seven 12 of 14 shots and pulled down 
of nine shoLs and pulled down 15 rebounds to lead Pope John 
10 rebounds while team captain Paul I to a 21-16 win over the 
Tom "Suds" Sudkamp hit five Iron City Athletic Club. Dan 
Irish golfers rebound in Columbus
of ten from the asphalt behind Hatfield had seven for the There were thirty six holes of respectable, Coach Noel O'Sull­
by Bill McCormick 

play on Saturday, and after ivan strongly believes that the
Sports Wnter

Runner makes NCAAs firing scores of 378 and 387, the Irish ''will need outstandingly 
After a disappointins show­Irish f6und themselves in the high finishes from here on in" 
by Mark Perry Dennis' performance· o*r the ing at the Kepler Invitational fourth spot going into Sunday's if they want to gain a bid to the 
Sports Editor weekend,'' Irish Head Coach two weeks ago, the Notre Dame final eighteen holes. ·But all NCAA Championships at Wake 
Joe Piane commented, "es­golf team was eager to get back hopes for a high finish were Forest University in late May. Dennis VanderKraats be­pecially since this is the first on the right track as it returned crushed on Sunday as the Irish There are three urcommg came the first Notre Dame time that he has run the 10,000 to the Kepler site, the difficult shot a 393 and fell back into tournaments that wil decide 
runner to qualify for the NCAA meters.'' ~ixth the fate the Irish. The
Scarlet Golf Course in Colum­place in the final stand­of 
outdoor track championships, Several other Notre Dame bus, to compete with fourteen mgs. Purdue Invitational is next Sat­as he ran a 29:27 to win the runners also turned in strong other schools in the Northern Sophomore Tim Sacheck and urday, and its field will consist 10,000 meter run at the Illini performances at Illinois. Fresh­Intercollegiate tournament last junior John Lundgren tied for of virtually all of the schools Classic, held last Saturday at man Chris Lattig ran a strong Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. fifteenth in the individual that were in the Northern, with the University of Illinois in 8:55 in the 3000 meter steeple­The Irish came in with a standings as ninety golfers the absence of Ohio State. Next Champaign, IL. chase to place second ir. the respectable perform~nce as competed in the tournament. Monday is the Mid-American VanderKraats, senior co­event, and the 1600 meter relay they tied for sixth in a field Junior Dave Knee · was also Invitational at Oxford, Ohio. captain for this year's Irish team of Jacques Eady, Jim which consisted of all the Big impressive as he earned Then the following weekend is squad, is now eligible to run in Christian, Bill Ribera, and Rick Ten schools except North­twentieth place. the Spartan Invitational at the NCAAs, which will also be Rogers (all freshmen) combined western, three teams from the While last weekend's per­Michigan State's home course 
held at the University of Illinois to take fourth place, finishing in Mid-American Conference (Ball formance at the Northern was [continued on page 11] on May 31 and June 1 and 2. 3:15. 
State, Miami 0., and Ohio·U.), 

Cincinnati, and Illinois State. riT , b b ll h. · 
Ohio State, a nati<?nal power in VV omen S -a reac es semtS 
~olf, came away w1th first place 

m the tournament. . by Mark Perry top sp?t again this season. 
Notre Dame posted a 72-hole Sports Editor Semor Carol Lally, one of the 
team sco~e of 1546 forth<; three stars of this year's women's 
days whtch put them 10 the Bookstore Basketball has basketball team is one of the 
sixth spot along with Indiana. become one of the spring top players o~ the Notre 
The tea~s that finished ahead tradition at Notre Dame, but Darners, although she has a 
of the Insh were as follows: only last year did the Irish strong supporting cast. The 
Ohio State(1465), Il~in<?is(1533), women start getting in on the team has rolled through the 
loy.'a(1537), and Mtchtgan and action. The first women's early rounds, winning by some 
Illtnots State(1542). Bookstore tournament was held lopsided scores. On Monday 
On Friday, the l~ish managed last year, and the two finalists, the Darners defeated the Lucky 
a score of 388 whtch was good defending champs the Notre Lasses 21-2 with Sue Kunkel 
enough for sixth p}ace as they Da!llers and runner-up Any Old a~d Marg;r_et McMenamin 
began Saturday s rounds. Thmg, are both gunning for the ~ymg_ for ~conng_ honors, tally­
f• 
mg six pomts ap1ece. 
In yesterday's quarterfinal

Kelly refunds movie pro 1tS action, the Notre Darners rolled 
again, scoring a 21-6 victory 

by TomSen·o to fame in the movie Fastbreak, over Notre Dame no. 6. _Kunkel 
Sports Wn'ter starring Gabriel KaP.lan. Kelly was high scorer again with 
portraye~ a shoo.ting . guard seven points, and Shelia Lieb­
Have xou seen that movie named S1mpson. H1s IT!ato duty scher added five for the win­
star cruising around campus? was to rough-up Swisher, a ners. Liz Berry was the big
What, you fiaven't! How could female eager. offensive weapon for Notre 
you miss him? He is the only KeHy was chosen for the role D 6 h k f,
b Jim Harrick the technical arne no. • as s e sun our
guy wearing dazzling, mulu­

cbnsultant for the film. Kelly baskets.
colored Hollywood shirt, a bur­

knows Harrick, a fomer assis-'fhe o~her top team, Any Old
gundy cravat, and a pair of 

rant coach at UCLA but now Thmg, 1s led by_ N~me Dame
stylish dark shades (sunglasses 

head coach at Pepperdine, center)ane Pobt~sk1. Afte~ a
for you. laymen in show biz). 

through UCLA's recruiting 21-2 wm over A Ftfth of Regma
Well, this talented young 

none attempts to sway Marc to wear o~ (Politiski
man is other than Marc Monday scoring 
a Brum uniform. eight), they defeated Notre
Kelly. Yes, the same Marc 

But Marc's acung career did Dame no. 8 in yesterday's
Kelly who wore number 25 for 

not settle well with the NCAA. quarterfinal round, 21-11.
Digger Phelps and his Fighting 

By his playing basketball in the Politiski domi~ated play, scor-Irisfi cagers last season. In 
fact basketball is Marc's claim [continued on page 10] (contznued on page 10 







