..------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---~ 
TV special on Notre Dame -p, 7
' ' ' 


VOL XIII, NO. 81 

Al McGuire discusses own careers, sportscasters 
by Andy Segoria StaffReporter 
AI McGuire, former head basketball coach at Marquette University and color commentator for coUege basketball on NBC, spoke before a crowd of approximately 100 ~pie at Howard Hall last night. 
McGuire opened with a bnef discussion on hi:s careers, discussed yesterday's game, and ended by taking various questions from the floor. 
McGuire stated his belief in multiple careers, "I am now on my third career,'' he said. His first career included jobs as a bartender, construciton worker, and pro basketball ~;>layer for the New York Knicks. McGuire described this period as 'a soul-searching process which everyone goes through." 
Next McGuire went on to coach basketball for 20 years. ''I stayed too long but was fortunate to go out with a last hurrah,'' he quipped. 
"Now I am in business," he said. McGuire is currently vice-president of an industrial firm. "I am not completely disenchanted with it, but I think business is relatively shallow some of the time." 
McGuire does not consider his commenting role as a career. "It is just on weekends; an ego kind of thing which prevents me from going cold turkey. " 
McGuire did say that he enjoyed working with professional sportcasters such as Jim Simpson and Dick Enberg, who he considers as the best in the business. "You play off a pro," McGuire remarked, "in life if you Want to be successful, you must associate with successful people.'' 
Concerning yesterday's game, McGuire believes that strong comments made by the press following the first ND-UCLA game in 
[continued on page 10) 
Farley 'redirects' Carroll 
by Laura Lan"more StaffReporter· 
In a hall meeting last night, Farley Hall voted on and passed a statement of position callmg for a redirection of the issues brought out by the Carroll Hall Council last week. In the proposal, they commended Carroll for their stand, but said that they felt the 

Bakhtiar resigns; tnonarchy 1in final hours' 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar re­portedly resigned yesterday after Iran's military chief declared support for Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. The 2,500-year-old 
Observer 
apologizes for edition 
We at The Observer would like to apologize for both the tardy deliH:ry of la"t Friday's edition as well a'> the incorrect ordering of its pages. However, the circumstances that caused these problems were not subject to our control. 
The Observer is printed at the Penny Saver Press in South Bend, and on Friday the Penny Saver experienced mechanical problems with their presses. These were partially solved, al­lowing the paper to be printed, but the ordenng of rhe papers' inside pages was incorrect. 
These problems were dis­cussed at length with the Penny Saver management in order to prevent them in the future. 

iranian monarchy appeared to be. 
in its final hours. 
The government news agency 
placed the death LOll in Tehran at 
more than 200 with scores killed 
in other cities during two days of 
bloody street fighting. 
Khomeini's followers took over 
Tehran Radio and issued a series 
of directives from the Provisional 
Revolutionary Government. The 
broadcasts said the shah-backed 
Bakhtiar government had fallen 
and all members of Parliament 
had resigned. 
The Khomeini followers also 
reported fighting continued in 
some cities but urged Tehran 
residents ' 'to refrain from atracks 
on the armed forces now that the 
revolution was triumphed and the 
armed forces have surrendered.'' 
Among many rumors circulat­
ing in Tehran were that Baktiar 
had fled the country and that he 
committed suicide. 
Gen. Abbas Gharabaghi, chief of staff of the armed forces, met with 70-year-old Mehdi Bazargan, named by Khomeini to be his prime minister, and said he would support the government set up by Khomeini to establish a 
'' revolutonary'' Islamic republic. 
The military chief ordered troops 
to stay in their barracks. 
The withdrawal of troops appeared to break the back of the constitutional monarchy that de· pended heavily on a loyal, united military. 
Khomeini, the 78-year-old re­ligious leader who returned to Iran Feb. 1 after 14 years in exile, declared · in a statement that "victory is neaf." 

Insurgents took over Tehran, looting military posts of weap~ms and ammunltlon, occupytl}g government buildings and police stations and racing through the streets flashing "V" for victory signs. They raided several prisons and released hundreds of "political" detainees jailed by the shah as common cnminals. 
Early today, huge explosions shook the western side of the city near Mehrabad International Airport. Tehran Radio said Jay barracks, one of Iran's largest tank garrisons, was in flames. The radio reported heavy shoot­ing there, in Majlis Square and two other areas of the capital. 
A source close to Bakhtiar told The Associated Press that the prime minister submitted his 
resignation in  the afternoon  to  
Bazargan,  a  friend for  over  30  
years.  

Ibrahih Yazdi, Khomeini's 

chief aide, said Bakhtiar, 54, had quit. There was no comment from Bakhtiar, and his where­abouts were unknown. Sources said the prime minister, appoint­ed Jan. 4, wrote his resignation because he cuold not continue without military support. 
Tehran Radio, overtaken by insurgents, said the speaker of the Majlis, the parliament, an­nounced that all members of Parliament also had resigned. 
Tehran Radio said some mili­tary personnel were resistin~ Gharabaghi's sdltement, but tt quoted the commander of the shah's elite Imperial Guard as saying, "I wish to state with much pride that the Imferial Guard is on the side o the nation.'' 
In one of its -first acts, the provisional operational staff of the Islamic Revolutionary Move-· ment closed Iran's borders and all airports for 24 hours beginn­ing today, Tehran Radio said. 
In Washington, the Pentagon ordered a detachment of 69 Marines sent from the United States to Turkey in case they were needed to help 19 Marines protect the U.S. Embassy in Iran, Six Air Force helicopters were 
[continued on page 5] 
real issue was not pari"etals but rather the lack of student input into student life policy formula­tion. 
Michele Kelly, Farley Hall president, read the statement to a group of approximately 40 hall re!>idents. This was the ftrst official reading of the hall posi­tion, created after mandatory sectionmeetingsheld last week to assess the desires of the whole Farley population. Kelly said she 
'and the members of the hall council felt this was an acurate consensus of hall opinion as presented by the section leaders at a hall council meeting last Thursday. 
In rejecting Carroll Hall's init­iative to abolish parietals, Farley called for a recognition ~y the Administration ofstudent dtscon­tent and for increased student participation, through voting power, in forming rules govern­mg student life. The present Campus Life Council (CLC) has no inherent legislative powers. 
In the proposal, Farley stated that ''we beueve that the Admin­istration does not fully acknowl­edge the student body as adults fully capable of making respon­sible decisions." 
The hall asked for support from the student body in addressing the issue. For effective leader­ship, they appealed to student government to "represent the obvious widespread discontent and disillusiorunent of the stu­dents." They felt that strong vocal representation was impor­tant in defining and defendng the students' position, and that stu­dent government should provide this representation. 
Editor's note: The complete statement by Farley Hall is printed on today 's Editorial page. 

----------·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
/ 


News in brief 
Aircraft aids Wyoming 
ranchers in catjle feeding 
WORLAND, Wyo. (AP) -For the first time in three decades the Wyoming National Guard is using aircraft to feed cattle marooned on the frozen prairie. A C-130 Hercules transport plane stuffed with 12 1/2 tons of hay each trip made one flight Saturday and two yesterday to drop feed on the Sam Hampton ranch about 280 miles northwest Of Cheyenne. "We haven't done this since the big blizzard of 1949,'' flight engineer Melvin Duncan said. The fli~ts were the first under a $4 million operation approved by the Legislatur'e to provide emergency aid toranchersstruggling with what the Nanonal Weather Service says is Wyoming's worst winter on record. 
Israel accepts U.S. 1 invitation to resume talks 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israel. yesterday accepted an American invitation to resume peace talks with Egypt at Camp David, MD, later this month but announced no softening of its stand on unresolved issues. Egypt accepted the invitation last week. Prime Minister Menacfiein Begin said there would be a break in the Camp David talks so Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Egyptian Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil could consult with their governments, an indication that the talks may go beyond the three or four days originally planned. The meeting is eJq>ected to start in about 10 days, but no time has been officially announced. 
Susan Ford marries Secret Service agent 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. (AP) -Susan Ford is honeymooning at an undisclosed location after her marriage Saturday to a Secret Service agent whom she met while he guarded the Ford family. Susan, 21, and Charles Vance, 37, were married at what was described as a traditional "family style" wedding Saturday at St. Margaret's Episcopal Church in nearby Palm Desert. About 300 people attended. The couple recently bought a house in Los Angeles, where Vance is now based, said Ford family SJ>Okeswoman Gloria Hill. His wife has been working as a free-lance photographer. · 
Cigarette production rises despite cancer warnings 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Despite cancer warnings, U.S. cigarette manufacturers are continuing to increase their output, the Commerce Department reports. The ~ette industry, which produced $3.6 billion worth ofcigarettes m 1972, turned out .$6.1 billion during 1977, the department said. In 1977, there were 39,000 employees of cigarette producers, a slight increase from the 38,100 in 1972. By regton, in 1977 cliere were 12,400 workers in Virginia, 17,900 in North Carolina and 8,700 in all other states. 

Weather 
Travelers advisory ending, with snow en~ after two to four inches of accumulation. Cloudy today with highs in the 20s and a 40 percent chance of snow. Lows from 5-10. Chance for light· snow tomorrow, with hlghs in the mid to upper 20s. 


s 
2 pm--LOW INCOME TAX ASSISTANCE, sponsored by bus. admin. acctg. dept., TOM DOOLEY RM, LA FORTIJNE 
5:30 pm--MEETING, french club, FACUL1Y DINING ROOM, SOUIH DINING HAIL · _ 
6 pm--MARDI GRAS, SlEPAN CENlER 
6 pm--MBA NIGHI', for'nd/smc community, 241 MADEIEVA -SMC 
7 pm--MEETING, anyone interested in writinl"''M"fhe observer, OBSERVER OFFlCE, 3rd FLOOR LA FORTONE 
7:30 
pm--FILM, "belle de jour," speech and drama series, WASH. HAIL 

7:30 
pm--MEETING, discussion of graduate studies with provost timothy o'meara, sponsored by grad. stud., UB. LOUNGE 


7:30pm--MEETING, world hunger ·~. LA FOR1lJNE
coali. 

UTILE 1HEA1RE . ~­-
9 pm·-PAR'IY. amnesty ~PIA SHBD 
Archbishop condemns strikers 
FOLKESTONE, England (AP) -The Archbishop of Canterbury condemned tl1e "sheer pitiless­ness" of some British strikers yesterday, saying they have hurt the old and the young, left the dead unburied and turned their backs on the sick and dying. 
"Pity is out, mercy is out and the sense of !brotherhood in the nation is out," said Dr. Donald Coggan spiritual head of the Church of England and the worldwide Anglican Communion, in a sermon at St. John the Baptist Church in this southeast coastal town. The Communion includes the Protestant Episcopal Churchin the U.S. 
He said British society is in danger of destroying itself by selfishness and condemned what he said was a widespread attitude of ''every man for himself.'' He called for a change of heart among employees and employers alike. 
The archbishop was comment­ing on a campaign of strikes, slowdowns and picketing by 1.5 million public service workers demanding more pay. 
The disruption, which began Jan. 22, has reduced some hospi­tals and ambulance units to emergency services only, closed schools, left bodies unburied and garbage uncollected. 
[co;~tinued-on page 5] 
Biology Dept. holds forum 
''The Genetic Basis of Physi­ological Variation in a Salt Marsh Plant'' will be the title of a seminar directed by Ann E. Antlfmger tomorrow at 4:15 pm in room 278 of the Galvin Life Sciences Building. 
Antlfinger is a member of the Department of Botany at the Uruversity of Georgia-Athens. 
The Notre Dame Department of Biology is sponsoring the seminar and all students and faculty are invited to attend. Refreshments will be available at 4:30p.m. 
r--The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe,jr. Asst. Night Editor: Palsy CampbeU 
. Copy__ Readler: Debbie 
Dflhrltng 

Layout Staff: Rod &ard Editorial Layout: MArgie 
Brassil Features Ltyout: Chris Stewart Sports Layout: Frank UJGrotta, Gneg Solman Typists: Ki1n Convey, &th Willard, Bill Swift, Katie Brehl Early Morning Typist: Kim Convey [with speCial thanks to Katie BrehiJ Day Editor: Kate /Gikuskie Ad Layout: foe "Tylenol" Murphy, Bat< Pratt Photographer: Mike Bigley 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students ot Notre Oama and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year (S10 par semester] from The Observer. P.O. box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. In­diana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the · Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rnerved. 

michael &co. 
Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Women I with the emphasis on Easy CareI open late tuea.-thu11. 8pm North 1h mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 South 2041 E.l,.land at Ironwood master charge visa 291-1001 

7 PUIUC PEIFOIIAICES:
FEB. 14th 
THUIS. I P.l. • FIL I P.l. 

thru SAT. 1001. • P.l. _. I P.l. SUI. 2 P.l. lltl I P.l.
SUN. FEB. 18th 
NOTRE DAlE A.C.C. 
Wed.nl~ ~by
otr•Da­
Credlt Union 
Prices 
$4.00-$5.50-6.50 
HALF PRICE for ND/SMC Students 
Tickets now on SAlE
for Thurs 8 p.m. 
ACC BOX OFFICE
Sat. 12 noon Sun. 6:00 p.m. Shows. 


COMPLETE WIRE SERVICE lbtt=======J27 LincolnWayWest ~~~~~~ 
tt:::====south Bend, Indiana 46601 
General meeting for those interested in working for 
THE OBSERVER 

Monday 7 pm. in the Observer Office (3rd floor of Lafortune) 
tou1e's t=amous p1zza 
delivery to ND & smc 
€V€Ry hall= hOUR 
op€Tl at 5 pm mon-sat 
232-o1 11 
The Observer Monday, February 12, 1979 -page 3 

This hawk, recently seen on·campus, puts thefinal touches on his unlucky prey. [Photo by Mike ! Bzgley] 
Hurricane dampens Bull . Moose 
by Tim Sweeney walking around," Paese said. In reasonable figure. "There is. no addition, the hall is located in way that we can have a party with Due to excessive dama_ge that South Bend, so it is easily a good bane and a lot of beer if occurred at the Stanford-Farley accessible for the Notre Dame-we can only sell 500 tickets.. It 
. Hurricane Party in October, Saint Mary's community. just isn't feasible." Flanner Hall will not be able to James Nafe, owner of the 
Paese talked to Nafe and triedhave their annual Bull Moose Jefferson, was very cooperative to arrive at a compromise to letParty at the Jefferson Lounge. with Flanner last year, and Flanner sell 750-800 tickets, butThe damage, which consisted allowed them to sell as many was turned down. Nafe found noof broken windows, broken tickets to the )?arty as they could. 
objection with renting the Jeffer­faucets, torn-down fences and He also pernutted alcohol at the son to ND for dances, but would rugs that were urinated and party because buses· would be not allow more than 500 people.
vomitted on, was estimated at used to transport students to and approximately $450. from the lounge. Paese is looking into the possi­
In addition, the Jefferson According to Paese, last year's bility of having the party at the Lounge was sued by several party went smoothly, with mini­Old Armory in South Bend, but students who had lost their coats mal damage and no fights. ''We doesn't expect any success. when the racks in the coatroom went through 38 kegs of beer, Other party centers in the area bro~e. These cases were thrown amt. abou"""800 dollars of hard such as the Century Center were out of court, however, because a liquor. Even the band asked us also considered, but they were sign had been posted that warned to let them play again this year, eliminated because of the possi­students that they were checking because the evening went so bility of alcohol being consumed their coats at their own risk. well." by minors on their premises. 
According to Tom Paese, presi­Because of the damage at the Paese is disappointed that dent of Flanner Hall, the Jeffer­Hurricane party, however, Nafe Flanner will not be able to have 
son Lounge is an excellent loca­has raised his prices and limited the party again this year. "It's a tion for a party like the Bull the size of gatherings to 500 shame that a good thing has to be Moose. ''There is a coatroom, a people. Due to these changes, ruined by a few people who can't stage for the band, a bar, and Paese won't be able to keep the control themselves when they've plenty of room for dancing and price of this year's tickets to a had something to drink.'' 
Saint Mary's Career Development Center 
Occupation
Company

Date 
Management
Tuesday, Feb. 13 
J.C. Penny Co. 

I 
Marketing Rep. 
IBM

Wednesday, Feb. 14 
Officer
U.S. Marine Corps 

~ursday, Feb. 15 
The Student Union Record Sale 
RECORDS PRICED AT COST 
February 19-23 From 12-5 second floor LaFortune room 2-d this will be the only time the records wi!l ever be priced this low! ! ! 
·. 

'Innocent' squirrels bite several ND students 
~)John Me Grath StaffReporter 

In the last few weeks, several students have been bitten by the seemingly innocent squirrels that inhabit areas of the Notre Dame campus. 
Dr. Robert Thompson, Uni­versity physician, estunated that approximately five or six students have been treated at the infirmary in recent weeks for such wounds. 
"Most of the bites have resulted from some type of invitation on the part of the students in which the squirrels are coming up close to be fed," Thompson commented. 
He discounted fears that some of the bites may have been inflicted by rabid squirrels, explainins, "I've checked with the public health departments locally and they don't seem to be concerned. That type of disease (rabies) hasn't been present in that type of animal (squirrel) for years in this part of the country. 
Thompson added, however, that two victims have chosen to undergo rabies treatment as a precautionary measure. 
"Some people, depending on their fear of rabies, or for special medical reasons decide that they need special treatment,'' Thompson explained. 
Such treatment consists of daily injections of srecial vac­cines for a duration o 14 days. 
Thompson said that his staff had not noticed any particular area in which the squirrels attacks have been concentrated, but cautioned all students to be aware of the potential dangers involved in feeding the creatures, wherever they may be. 



BEST PRICES FOR YOUR PHOTO NEEDS 
#I IN PASSPORT PHOTOS APPUCATION PHOTOS IMMIGRATION PHOTOS WEDDING SPECIALS 
1432 MlSHAWAKAAVE, SOUTIIBEND 
287-3855
,• :·.·.··. ... 

Attention Juniors! 

at the )un1ou p~ents Weekenb 
paes1bents 01nneu. 
tues. res. 13, Web. ~eB 14, thURS. J:es 15 
12:00-1:00 pm, 3:0o-5:00 pm 
laj:outune lossy thOS€ WhO rail to mak€ PR€llmtnauy auuanqements wall S€ seateb uanbomly 

E_n~ 

----------~-~~ -~~~-----------------------------.., 
The Observer Monday, February 12, 1979 -page 4 
Fuel crisis may return 

NEW YORK (AP) ·The ques­tion is not "whether, but when" Americans will be forced to 
, conserve gasoline with measures like Sunday service station clos­ings, Sen. Henry M. Jackson said yesterday. With the current problems in Iran, "there isn't any question that we will have to shortly uadertake a program of alloca­tions," said Jackson, D-Wash., chairman of the Senate Energy Committee. "It will start out with a prohibition on the sale ofgasoline on Sunday," he said. "It's not a question of whether, but when. I think the sooner the better." Jackson was interviewed on 
In the Sorin Mardi Gras booth Saturday night this dealer attempts to win money for chan·ty in a CBS' "Face the Nation" televi­
simple game ofblackjcwk. [Photo by Mike B~gley] · 
r.........E:~9i·~·;·;·ri~9·&·c;;p-~t;;·sci;;;~e·M~j·;;;;............~ 
' 
DON'T MISS TALKING TO THE HUGHES RECRUITER VISITING YOUR CAMPUS SOON. 
Contact your plaeement office for interview dates. 
Ir------------------,I 
! HUGHES: 
I I 
L------------------~
Cleating a new wot1d with electronics 
-
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 

._.n...•an"•--...•nnnn••••••••nHn•••••••••••••••••••H•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••••••••••••••••~• 
Business Majors (MBA, BBA) 


TalkToNBD 

, 
About "Futures'~.. YOURS!' 
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS MONDAY. FEBRUARY 26th 
If you're interested in commercial lending, you've probably read about the tremendous growth in the banking industry's "Middle Market"-we ARE the Middle Market. As the 18th largest bank in the 
U.S. (and the largest bank in Michigan) NBD is big enough to be a major factor in ALL markets~ international, national, metropolitan. and regional-byt our concentration and strength as a middle market regional bank offers you some significant advantages: 
• On the job training, working directly with experienced Lending Officers, that quickly prepares · you to become an integral part of the decision-making process. 
• Early customer contact assignments, making full use of your financial and analytical skills. 
• Acommitment to career development based on individual interest, with advancement based on achievement._ 
Unique oppportunities for upward mobility and accelerated people-management · responsibilities. 
Invest your time, talents, and education wisely-investigate the outstanding career prospects NBD can offer. Register for an interview at your Placement Office~wethinkyou'll be glad yoi.J did! If an on-campus interview is not possible, ' send your resume to: 
Richard J. Kaylor Professional Employment Manager 
NATIONAL BANK of DETROIT 
Woodward Avenue at Fort Street Detroit, Michigan 48232 

sion program. He was a last-minute substitute guest for Billy 
========================== expected to be in place by April
1, but should be implemented

Swiss mime performs at SMc s<>?Th~ earlier we 
Start to con-

Mummenschanz, a Swiss Mime-Masque Theatre, will per­form in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's on Thursday at_ 8 
pm.. The Swiss Mime-Masque Theatre has been called marvelously entertaining by Clive Barnes, New York drama critic, and are currently on a national tour. The Mummenschanz per· formers are Andres Bossard, Florianna Frassetto and Bernie Schurch. Their specialty is masks, both facial and body masks, and they have utilized toilet paper, note pads, ice cube trays, flower pots, as well as clay, 
Carter, the president's brother, who cancelled out. 
CBS said the cancellation came one day after it received a call from a secretary to presidential adviser Gerald Rafshoon. 
The network said the secretary called and said Rafshoon was "very diappointed" and "quite upset'' that the president's brother was to be questioned on the program. But CBS quoted Rafshoon as saying he had done nothing to try to get Carter to cancel. 
A White House aide, who asked not to be identified, said Rafshoon was ''just astounded 'Face the Nation' would be interested in Billy. He's hardly a national figure." 
In Sunday's program, Jackson said a gasoline allocation plan is 

rubber and plastic in their con­struction of the masks. 
''We like to take very usual objects and give them a new and different meaning,'' says Frassetto who helped to establish 
Mummenschanz when she met ~~~e~o Swiss colleagues in 
''When we use toilet paper masks, for instance, the rolls can be pulled out to signify speech. As the conversation grows more animated, the rolls get all tangled up in an amusing way. It may sound strange, but it's really quite clear when you see it--the audience picks these things up right away." 
The troupe calls itself a mime grou(>, but this is definitely a kind of mtme of their own devising, quite distinct from the classical white-face that they all studied. 
Tickets cost $2 for students and $3.50 for adults and may be purchased at the Saint Mary's office in room 239 Moreau Hall. Tickets may also be reserved by calling 284-4176. 
serve, the less traumatic it will be for the American people," he 
sai.&e senator did not detail other oil conservation measures, but said that this year when Ameri­cans •'to to the gasoline pump, 
they' II ave to stand in line and they're &oin~. to pay $1 a gallon for gasoline.
Jackson said he believed an Iranian government under Aya­tollah Ruhollah Khomeini would virtually dry up oil supplies from Iran for the U.S. and Its Western allies. 
He said gasoline rationing would not be necessary if the loss of foreign oil is restricted to Iranian sources, but would be needed if 9.5 million barrels a day imported from Saudi Arabia also are interrupted. 
Jackson .descri~ed the .supply from Saudi Arabia and Its oil-producing neighbors as vulner­able to interdiction by the Pales­tine Liberation Organization, which he characterized as having "a real tie to the Khomeini government." 

*************~******************** 
* * 
~ put in a r!J(}~ ~ 


i *-Valentines l*
iwed. Feb.I4th Day i 

!personal ~ 
*' ~ for your sweetie I!~ * 
i special greeting section in the ; i OBSERVER ~ i*wnte. message here, pay at the observer office * * * 
* *
*----------------------------i
* ___________________________..... * 
* *
* _______________, _____________.* 
** . . * * -. **
* ---------------------------·* 
*----------------------------*
* . *
*----------------------------* 
* *
*·---------------------------*
* . * 
* -------------~-------------** 
! t 
* *
* DEADLINE FOR VALENTINE PERSONALS IS * 
* * 
:NOON, TUESDAY AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE :
* ' * 
1v1 Equal OpportunityEmployerM/F 

._------------------~----------------------------~~'*********************************. 
·• -:'\t'\·· '·-.'*'. 


The Observer Monday, February 12, 1979-page 5 


, , , Bakhtiar 


[continuedfrom page 1) 
being flown to Turkey in case .Americans had to be evacuated from Tehran, Defense Depart· ment spokesman Thomas Lambert said. 
State Department spokesman Kenneth Brown said the 7,000 .Americans in Iran were safe "to the best of our knowledge.'' 
In Marrakech, Morocco, sources close to Shah Mohhamad Reza Pahlavi, 59, said he was in a state of "anguished expectation" as he followed events from his ''vaca­tion" seclusion there. He left Iran in mid-] anuary. The sources said he was following the events through Iran's U.S. and Euro­pean embassies. 
In a radio and television add­ress, Bazargan said he was pleased to hear "the army will not interfere in political affairs and that they have supported the will of the people." 
The military decision to follow "the will of·the people" came after two days ofbloody rioting in which many soldiers joined the opposition, exploding the notion that the 430,000-man armed forces were united behind the government. 
''The armed forces with all its power supports the wishes of the people," said a statement broad· cast by Iranian state radio. 

[continuedfrom page 2) 
The public service workers want a 42 ~rcent pay hike to give them a mmunum weekly wage of $120. Their employers have offered 8.8 percent. 
The government says the only y.-ay to stop inflation, now runn­mg at 8.4 percent a year, is to 
Enrollment fee due Friday 
All students who wish to return 
to the University for the 1979· 
1980 academic year must indicate 
their intention to do so by 
completing the advance enroll­
ment procedure by Friday. 
Students holding full academic 
scholarships, including athletes, 
ROTC scholars and students on 
faculty grants-in-aid, must bring 
the IBM card they received in the 
mail to the Office of Student 
Accounts before Friday and 
indicate that they are on full 
academic scholarship. 
All other students must pay a 
$50 advance enrollment deposit, 
which will be applied to students' 
accounts for the fall semester, 
1979. 
Please remit a check for $50 along with the IBM card marked Advance Enrollment and mail it to Box T in the envelope povided. Please note that a stamp must be placed on the envelope--it cannot be sent by campus mail. Make checks payable to the University ofNotre Dame. 
The University will refund $40 of the S50 advance enrollment deposit to any student who notifies the University before July 1, 1979, that he or she will not return for the fall semester. 
For. further information, con­
tact the Office of Student 
Accounts, 102 Administration 
Building. 
(/),~ FLORAL PLACf 
ORDER 


HOFSTRA 
YOUR 

LAW
•
LOVEBUNDLE~ 


SCHOOL 
\

· BOUQUET 

Summer
from aJ~~ today. call 259-6336 say it with flowers 

Program 1979 
4 ~ 
JbROBINSON JEWELERS JEWLERY OPPORTUNITIES 
Full and part-time sales, bookkeeper and 

For further information write or call
manager trainee positions available 

(516) 560-3636 
for our new store at University Park Mall. Excellent hourly salary, great benefits, complete training and opportunities to share in 
... strikers 
keep pay increases low. The present industrial wage in Britain averages about S140 a week. 
The archbishop's remarks were challenged br. left-wing lawmaker Arthur I..atliam and by Alan Fisher, leaders of one of the four public service unions involv­ed in the strikes. 
Latham, a member of the ruling labor party, denounced the archbishop as "Britain's No. 1 hypocrite. '' 
IHC holds 
summer job
. ,
tntervtews 
International Harvester Com­pany will be on campus Monday, · Feb. 26, conducting interviews for summer employment in Fort Wayne. Junior BS degree candi­dates in math will be considered for internships in Systems Analysis. 
Interested students must be registered at the Placement Bureau and must sign up on the interview schedules. For more information, contact the Place­ment Bureau. 
Recotda--• 
New Low Regular Prices All *7.98 LP's

-.... 
only *4.99 All *8.98 LP's only 15.99 
Flanner Records 603 Flenner Phone: 4256 
Hours: Mon-Thurs 4:00-5: 6:30-8:00 Sun. 6:30-8:00 

SUMMER SESSION I 
MAY 29-JULY 9 COURSES CREDITS 
Conflict of Laws  3  
Criminal Procedure I  3  
Debtor Creditor  3  
Evidence  4  
Family Law  3  
Individual Income Tax  4  
International Law  2  
Land Use Planning  3  
Secured Transactions .  3  

SUMMER SESSION II 
JULY 11-AUGUST 24 
Business Organizations 4 Commercial Paper 3 Communications Law 3 Health Law 3 Labor Law 
3 Products Liability 3 Wills, Trusts & Estates 4 
the growth of our 45 store chain. 



HOFSTAA* 
Interested? We will be interviewing in room 101 of the 


UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOLOF LAW 
HEMPSTEAD, NEW YORK 11550
Holiday Inn-South Bend, February 12 and 13 from 10 A.M. to 8 P.M. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

Monday, February 12, 1979 -page 6


Editorials 
Response: 'Why WSND?' 
Mark Ferron's coocemed and sincerelr,-swed remarb about WSND-AM ("Why WSND ') were apprcciatcd and cattfully considered by all of us at W'SND. However, Mr. Ferron has some colossal. misconceptions about WSND AM and FM, and their roles on this campus. Perhaps before using the Observer, Mr. Ferron ~ht have seen fit to dO a bit ofresearch on some ofhis facts that are easily explained. Unfortunately his experience with WSND is limited to a rather tentative involvement in our newsroom last year when WSND was not exacdy a ship-shape or~on. His program· ming criticisms are liased upon questionable sources, since he admittedly rarely listens to WSND, nor do his friends. In any case, we are anxious to answer Mr. Ferron's queries. 
WSND realizes (and has realiied for years) its occasional audio problems. The cost to repair the worn-down transmitters that we have in most every dorm is lremetu/oMS. However, replacinJ the old transmitters is AM's Eriority. Smce Mr. Ferron lives in flanner r and Grace have the worst transmitters all dorms) he ~ht be interested to know that we purchased a new tranSmitter for flanner last semester; but due to conflicts with the manufacturer it has not been installed. Hopefully it soon shall be. As far as we know, most Other dorms only occasionally have problems tuning in WSND. 
Secondly, the Administration docs not have the responsibility to automatically produce funds to pay for $12,000 worth of tranSmitters. We do receive some funds every year· for ~ital purchases from the University but the tranSmltter project is necessarily going to be a slow process. Let me emphasize though that Aanner and Grace are our #1 priority. 
I am afraid Mr. Ferron's solutions to the AM audio problems beyond purchasing new tranS· miners are somewhat uninformed. No, AM cannot increase its power because it is not broadcast through aic waves, but through lines connected to each dorm. No, AM cannot go stereo by acing cable because you are talking about bigger bucks than you can unagine. No, AM is not going to switch places with FM. Mr. Ferron ciUs FM "super inarket Muzak" and implies that it too is there to serve only students. WSND-FM serves the public around the South Bend community, and funhermore, Bach, Beethoven and Brahms should not be confused with a Muzak 'rersion of''Precious and Few" or "Raindrops are Falling on My Head." 
The most unfair statement made by Mr. Ferron concerns WSND-AM's programming. In case he had not noticed, AM underwent a very important (and successful) clwlge in format this year. There is a good balance of requests, golds, and up and coming songs--not the bubble gum rock heard on WRBR. Jim Dorgat!, the! AM Program Director, had brought AM !11' from being unoipnized, noisy and demoralized to becoming--and I say this without hesitation--the best niCk radio station in town. 
Mr. Ferron cites "Radio Fr.ee Notre Dame" as the only special program for students on WSND. He seems to have overlooked ''SnM~Irina of Sports," "Studio).,'' "Album Hour," r.S~ld Album ~." 'Rock in Retrospect,'' "Disco," "Blast from the Past," and "SOul Hour," ... PWS full coverage of Mardi Gras, An Tostal events, all football, basketball and hockey games and other special remotes. 
We feel badl~that despite our efforts, Mr. Ferron, and per s others, are unaware of the improvement WS has made this year. WSND is qwte popular with underclassmen who have never known any other WSND. Howc:ver, we realize that it will take time and money to rc..-familiarize the rest ofthe campus with our radio station. Why WSND? . .. because talented and hard-working people are making it the station that the students need and deserve. 
Kate Bernard Station Manager 





P. 0. Box Q 
Suggestions for winter safety 
Dear. Et/ilor: 

This letter is in reacnon to what is an ever-present problem around the Notre Dame ~us during the winter--snow and tee. 
Footiiig on campus pathways is treacherous and especially dan­gerous as the weather warms up. Snow melts during the height of the afternoon and freezes again in the evening, leaving a thin sheet of dangerously slick ice over the snow. In the past several days footing on the paths has been worse than usual and many people (myself included) have slipped and fallen, usually with no serious injuries, except to our pride! 
I ask the groundskeepers, who do an excellent job of clearing snow, to watch for ice at major walkway intersections on campus. Two dangerous places are the sidewalks in front of the dining halls and the area where the siaewalks intersect in front of Dillon Hall on the way to South dining hall. The section of road whicli students must cross on their way from the Farley end of the North dining hall. to Flanner and Grace hall~ is especially dangerous because of the-traffic, where a misstep could be fatal. 
Obviously, the entire campus cannot be sanded every day, but certain especially busy and dan­gerous areas could be checked and sanded every day to reduce the potential for serious injury. These safety precautions will help to ensure that we will all be survivors of the winter of '79! 
Timothy Creagan 
WSND-FM 
not a 1Muzak' 
Dear Editor: 

Mark Ferron's article "Why WSND?" often seemed to be quite reasonable in its approach and statements. I have never lived on campus, so I have never _had the opportunity to hear WSND-AM. Ifhis description of the Radio Free Notre Dame talk show is accurate, then the per­sons responsible should apolo­gize to the Notre Dame commun­Ity. 
However, a basic error in the article must not go unanswered. WSND-FM is not a "super market Muzak'' station. Either Mr. Ferron is unacquainted with the pro_gra.mming at WSND-FM or he does not know the differ­ence between classical music and Muzak. Since he docs mention WSND-FM's ''classical music orientation" I feel the problem must be that he docs not know the meaning of classical music or the term "Muzak." 
Muzak is created for back­ground sound in stores, banks, doctor's waiting rooms, etc., and can be found in a station such as WWJY-FM (South Bend). The xery p~e of Muzak (in its non-conflicting sound) is to fade into the background. 
"Classical music" (a very inaccurate term) is the personal expression of the artist or com­poser, arid it must be listened to closely ifit is to be understood. A symphony by Beethoven, an opera by Verdi, or an oratorio by Bach is not now, never has been, and never will be Muzak. 
In addition, the AM station should not change places with the FM station be<:ause there is little need for another "Rock station" on local airwaves. WSND-FM serves the community. of 
Michiana (South Bend, Elkhart, Mishawaka, etc.) as well as the students of the· University of Notre Dame. This means that there are only two local stations which broadca-st classical music-­WAUS-FM (Berrien Springs, Michigan( and WSND-FM. 
WAUS-FM is not always easily band. 
receivable in the South Bend Can WSND·AM be improved? 
area. Perhaps, but any improvement Rock music is represented by must no~ be mad~ at ~e expense 
WRBR, W AOR, WVPE; and · o(a Statton that ts qwte uruque-· 
WNDU on the FM band and by WSND-FM. 
WSBT and WNDU and numerous ~~o stations on the AM Matthew Heintzelman 
Farley commends Ca"oll 
Dear Editor: 
Farley Hall would like to commend Carroll Hall ~or their initiative in abolishing parietals. We support the philosophy behind their actions but do not believe that parietals is the central issue. 
After input from the entire hall, the general consensus is that the true concern is lack of student representation and the need for an effective channel of communication. This channel would provide input for decisions affecting student life not in the form ofsuggestion but rather throue:h voting power. We believe that the administration does not fullyacknowledge the student body as adults fully capable of maklng responsible decisions. 
Farley recognizes the existence ofgeneral student disconte~t and would like to direct it towards constructive efforts to obtam the right to work with the administration in formulating policies concerning the Notre Dame community. 
We sincerely hope that the student body will acquaint themselves with the issues and join us in our effort to achieve these goals. We need a vocal representation of our rights and doubts, and most importantly, we need a leader. We appeal to the student government to provide this leadership to represent the obvious widespread discontent and disillusionment of the students. Results Will come only through a united effort from all quarters. 
Let's see some effort to plan realistic courses ofaction!! Farlej Hall Cotm&il 
_The Observer_ 
either mstitution. The news is EDITORIAL BOARD of reported as accurately and as objectively Editor-in-Chief ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managing Editor ........ Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnim opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor ........ john Calcutt Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Board. Commentaries, opinions and Executive Editor ...... Barb lAnghenry Photo Editor .......... ,Doug Christian The Observer is an independent newspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor . . . . . . . Rosemary Mills per published by. students of the Column space is available to all mem­Copy Ediro~ ... : . . . . . . . . Phil CacJtl_? Production Manager . . . . . . Mardi Nevin University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of the community, and the free · Sa.tnt Mary s Ed1tor . . . . . . PJJen Blllid:1 Business Manager ........ john Tucker Mary's College. It does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. Ann Gales Advertising Manager ........ &b Rudy reflc;ct the policies of the administration pus, through letters! is encouraged. News Editor ....... ~-.... Mjk,e Lewis Mike Douglas Shows. The fact that seats. Yet, Donahue conducted himself Donahue comes out of Chicago rather with .impeccable aplomo throughout the than Los Angeles gives a clue to the everung. format of the show. What else 1s one to expect of ND 
Features  Monday, February 12, 1979-page 7  
Cupid Strikes Again Valentine's Day BiiiMcGum "For this was on seynt Valentine's Valentine tommorrow." day, whan every foul cometh ther to ches Now for anyone who knows the ways his make.'' So says Geoffrey Olaucer in of my mother, this ~ly innocent what has to be one of the earliest and remark meant, briefly stated, ''lbou most accurate apj_>raisals of this special shalt sent Jeannie White a Valentine day. As Mr. Otaucer keenly noted, tornmorrow and thou shalt fulfill this Valentine's Day is not all it is ccaclced u.P command wiJlingly and cheerfully to be; it can be a day when ~pularity ts whether you want to or not.'' As in the measured by a constant How many finer tradition of all my mom's "when I didja get?" was a chid stories,'' this was the obvious and inherent moral which I was expected The ~pie who have it worst on to recognize, remember and react to. Valennne's day are those who are ten With a brief sigh I resigned myself to years old and in the Fifth JUll(ie. To be the task and thus took out the biggest ten years old and in the Fffi:h .uac:le can and gaudiest cherry red Valennne I be sheer heU, and it seems to"be worse could find, and on it I wrote "To for girls than it does for guys. This Jeannie, Happy Valentine's Day, Love probably because girls seems to cele­and Kisses, tour Admireer, Billy." My brate it more, whereas for guys, while it mom assured me what a noble deed I cannoc be said that they actually hate was doing and how thrilled Jeannie girls, neither can it be said that they hold White would be to ~ a Valennne, and them in high esteem. the next day I went off to school feeling Such was pretty much the case when I very much like Don Quioxte, bringing was in Fafth grade. A year oftwo past the some joy and decency into the very cold old piaaill-in-the-inlcweU attitude, there and cruel world of the Fifth _grade. In was, liowever faint the glimmer of a fact, I was feeling pretty good about the shining and chivalrous knight in me. My whole thing. ever observant mother, sensing the The classroom the next day looked change, and seizing upon the oppor­very much the same as my mother's tunity, took me as1de the day before must have looked back when she was ten Valentine's day and related one of her years old. I placed my Valentines in the numerous ''when I was a child'' stories. box and toolc: my seat with the other It seems that in her class in grade students who were all anxiously awaiting school there was a very sweet yet plain the distribution of the cards. The girl who stood no great chance ofgetting teacher called out some names and the any Valentines because she was very shy inevitable patter of popularity and the boys were constandy teasing developed. As my mother had suspect­her. On this one Valentine's Day, she ed, Jeannie's name had not been ciUled came in as usual with the others and out by the teacher, and I watched her dropped a few cards into the big closely, not wanting to miss the expres­decorated cardboard box on the sion on her face when she got my card. teacher's desk in the front of the room. She sat at her desk in stony silence She then sat down as the class eagerly seemingly unaware of what was tran­_ awaited the calling of the names by the spiring about her. Finally, the teacher nun, when the students would brighdy called her name, and Jeannie raised her walk up to get their Valentine's, the eyes as though she'Cl not heard quite popular ones wearing out the carpet with correctly. The teacher repeated her so many trips back and forth. name, and Jeannie walked up to the After most of the Valentines had been front to coUect her prize. I noticed that given out, my mother noticed that the she concealed her excitement very weJI. girl in question still hadn't received any When she got back to her desk she cards. She sat at her desk, reading a opened her card and took it out of the magazine, pretending to care not at aJI envelope. At this point, I imagined the about the whole silly afliar, yet looking first blush, the careful folding, and then for all the world as though she would the silent fond gaze in my direction. burst into tears. My mother then paused But this was not to be. Instead, she read for a moment, and such was the pathos the inscription, wrinkled up her nose, of the recalled scene that her eyes were and turrun~ to show Donna Burns, misty and her voice was beginning to screamed, 'Oh, Grosssss!" falter. I myself was starting to wonder So much for the Don Quioxte hypo­exactly how personal this griefwas, but I thesis; I guess in the end he was nothing did not interrupt. but a deluded fool. I had met my She continued. As the girl was sitting Aldonza. The pl)' who really knew the impassively at her desk, her name was score was oldJeffChaucer who ended up miraculously called by the teacher. She writing some pretty good stuff. But sat for another moment until the teacher that's all over now; I'm twenty years old, repeated it and she was sure that there and contrary to what the Freudians in was no mistake. Her face lit up as she the Psychology Department would tell walked with regal grace up to the front of you, I am completely over this dishean­the room to collect her Valentine. My ening experience. . mother then stopped the story abrupdy, In fact, I think I'U even send my mom saying, "I hope Jeannie White gets a a Valentine this year.  WNITs Straight Talk TVSpecialOn Notre Dame Chris Stewart, Features EJ. Lovers of television, that assassin of for taping, but Dave and other persoonel the imagination, will be happy to know at the studio were so impressed by the that a sr.-i..l ~ ~ senes on Notte quality of the first show that a second Dame wiJif; highlighted this week on show was immediately added. WNIT-Channel 34's Slrrlight Ttlij. Panel members include two -wocnen The show will feature four Notre and two men, evenly divided between Dame-St. Mary's CoUege students dis­seniors and juniors. The men attend cussing the recent controversy over The Notre Dame, while the women hail &om Observer publication, "Sex and St. Mary's. Equality: Notre Dame's Vu-gin Terri­Topics covered during the initial show tory II center on Hogan's article, pacticularly on sirr~ight Ttlij is a daily talk show~ his equation Ofsocial equality and sexual hosted by Dave Barrett. Dave is a 1973 liberation. The second show explores Rraduate of ND, having majored in the ramifications of the article, whereby American Studies. The show focuses on the students rigorously explore their interesting issues within the greater understanding of virgmity, parieads, South Bend area. The two-part series on and the prevailing sexual attitu(les at du Notre Dame will be on Thursday and Lac. Friday, February 15 and 16. T.unes for Both programs promise inteUigeru: and the shows are 6:30pm and 11:30 pm. informative commentary on student (They're repeated later in the evening attitudes toward sexuality, as well as the for those people who could not see the conflict between these attitudes and the show otherwise.) sexual climate at Notre Dame. Dave contacted The Observer two weeks ago, expressing a desire to do a show on student reaction to the Hogan article. After solicit~ a number of potential panelists, indiVIdual interviews were held to insure an integrated, ~culate and well-balanced presen­tation. 'Ibe taping occurred early last week. Originally, only one show was scheduled Talk Show Host Time With Phil Donahue Mike Ridenour controversial topics and not HoUywoodIt has been 21 years since Phil stars. That's the reason we don't moveDonahue was doing homework at Notre to the coast,'' Donahue said. Dame but he came back to do just that While waiting at the airport for hisTuesday evening. His assignment was plane to board up, Donahue revealed twosimply to learn about University prob­keys of success that has helped hUn. Helems and ask his Wednesday guest, reiterated a point that "there are noUniversity President Theodore M. geniuses, but those who worked hardHesburgh, to comment on them. and were enthusiastic at their jobs "WOuld Few talk show hosts do a better job mosi: likely be successful.'' The other than Donahue when it comes to domg point relating to his own recipe of homework. Donahue admits the home­success concerned "always looking for work aspect of his job consumes a great the unusual or the unexpected. That is deal of arne. ''The most difficult pan of what people want and that is what you my job is getting ready for 240 shows a must look for." year.'' He says that considerable time is Donahue, however, did not mention spent on looking for locations away from another important key to success--that Chicag~. being his extraordinary talent of keen insight and the ability to aniculateDoriahue has done shows from all over inciteful information. Another asset,the U.S., and next month Houston will this more obvious, is his looks. Thebe the site. One J>lace he's never handsome six footer has been regarded in originated a show froin is Notre Dame. women's magazines and polls as beingWhen asked why, he quickly responded "macho." The appeal certainly was''Who would be my guest?'' Then after evident on the Notre Dame campus as athinking for a moment he said "You large concentration of women studentsknow, I think I would like doing a show comprised the front rows in thehere." Washington Hall talk. Donahue was a business major in Donahue says his hobbies are varied. college and actually began his career in He enjoys sports and plays short center communications after . graduation. He field for the WGN softball team. "Iplay worked at WNDU while a student but all sports at a four le,·el. I'll ski and fall only "moving props and helping out." down at the third pole.'' Donahue was hired at a radio station in Regarding Chicago's snowfall prob­Dayton and had a talk show on the air lems, Donahue was asked who s to with f:?Cople calling in their opinions and blame. He quipped "God." questions. It was suggested to Donahue It was adr.itirable that he was able to that the format of the show be moved to keep his sense of humor after such a television, thus the birth ofhis nationally hectic night that left him with anything syndicated talk show. but a moment's privacy. The controversial topics, the aud­Materialistically, Donahue appears to ience's participation and the rare have everything a person would want. appearances of Hollywood stars makes For starters there is fame and fortune. Donahue a unique talk show. Yet, the fame has its drawbacks. At the Another unique factor of Donahue is airport he was a marked man for that the show is based in Chicago. autograph seekers. As Donahue Donahue says he plans to keep the show boarded the plane there was no teJling in Chicago and not follow the migration how many passengers had him targeted to the west coast like the Tonight and for conversation once "setded" in their  

"We are concerned primarily with alwnnus? 
H' 

.,--------~-~~----~-­
The Observer Monday, February 12, 1979-page 8 
SCUBA DIVING 
We Cllt !lake JOU a SCUBA DIVER 
(Bastc or Advned) Wed. FEB. 14 ; at &:45 PM Ro011 20 La Fortune 
If you are serious about SCUBA , 
come ready to pay a S3Q.oo deposit-Ions1 Call Nino, 289·1158 
N.D. STUDENT UNION Presents 
iiiiil 

EXILE 

Thutsday Feb 22 8pm Notte Dame ACC All Seats Reserved ---­
J8.00 & J7.00 
Tlck•ta on sale at ACC Box Office 
SUNSHINE & CELEBRATION 
and sp•clal 
gu•at stat-
When does the training stop and lhe doing starl? 
At Scott we believe that the best tratntng we can gtVe yOtJ ts expenence tn putting your tdeas to work Stnce we know that personal growth is your goat. achtevement of that goal is realized thrOtJgh dotng. Expenence comes tram domg-putttng yOtJr tdeas to work, enJoying respon­stbtlity. and accepting accOtJntabtlity 
Each year, as delermtned, commttled college grads JOtn us. they brtng new talents wtth them. we put these talents to the lest tmmedtately and willingly accept thetr challenges 
Because we recogntze tndtvidual differences, our approach ts to butld on yOtJr extsttng skills-to enable yOtJ lo start dotng~ 
When does the traimng stop? It never does Scott Paper Company ts an equal opporluntly employer. mtt Cont~ct your placement olltce for .nformatton 

SMC holds n1eeting for pre-MBAs 
by Donna Trausch/ 

All students interested in pur­suing a MBA (Master ofBusiness Administnnion) degree are invited to attend a meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in room 241 Madeleva a1t Saint Mary's. 
Four MBA graduate students from Notre Dame will be present to relate their experiences in ND' s program and their pros­pects for it's future. A question­and-answer period will follow. 
Further counseling on a pro­gram will be available throu~h Prof. Frank Yeandel of the Samt Mary's Business Department. Previous to his arrival at Saint Mary's, Yeandel had advised other students on the MBA 
Law School presents talk 
A second lecture in the Notre Dame Law School's SJ?ring lecture series, The Chnstian Lawyers Forum, will be held tomorrow at 3:45pm in room 110 of the Law Building. 
Professor Charles Primus of NO's Depamnent of Theology and Professor] oseph P. Bauer of the Law School Will lecture on ''Law and Lawyers in the Jewish Tradition.'' 
Primus t~es ] udaic studies at ND and holds A.B. and Ph.D. degrees from Brown University and the M.H.L. degree from the ] ewish Theological Seminary Rabbinical School. 
Bauer has been on the ND Law Faculty since 1973. He holds degrees from the University of Pennyslvania and Harvard University and is a member of the New York Bar. 
program. Presently, there are '., puter programming is also help­
430 business administration majors out of 1800 total students at SMC. Because of such a widespread interest in business, the College asked Yeandel to assume the role of official cam­pus advisor on MBA pro~rams. 
-An MBA program ttself is designed to absorb students from a variety of disciplines and place them in a new learning environ­ment that does not require a specific bachelor's degree. Therefore, the liberal arts student can take advantage of it, providing he is able to analyze and quantify a vast amount of reading material. A small amount of knowledge 10 com­
ful. 
Six basic studies are included in the ,Program: accounting, economtcs, finance, manage­ment, marketing, and quanti­tative methods, such as statistics and decision theory. 
An MBA program can be undertaken by itself or in con­junction with law school. The advantage to the latter would be that a specialization could be reached through an MBA program. 
The MBA graduate can be expected to have excellent place­ment and much better starting salaries than a person only possessing a bachelor's degree. 


Join today. <You'll be glad you did.> 
NEW CLASS 
Location: St. Mary's College 
Day: Thursday 
Time: 6: 30 p.m. 

Beginning: Feb. 15 Place: McCandless Hall 
.

p1ano room 
For further information: 
Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
BEFORE YOU PICK UP YOUR DEGREE, PICK· OUR INTERVIEW. 
Contact your placement office for Interview dates. 
Ir·-----------------,I 
:HUGHES: 
I I
L------------------j
CIN'*'f11-waltlllfilh elec11'011ice 
AN EQUAL OPPORnJNITV EMPLOYER M/F 

The Observer 
Monday, February 12, 1979-page 9 


NEW DEl-ill, India (AP)­Iulfikar Ali Bhutto, the deposed Pakistani prime minister await­ing execution in his homeland, draws parallels between himself and former President Richard M. Nixon in an emotion-charged statement smuggled from his death-row cell. He warns that Pakistan's future depends upon his survival. 
"I was born to make a nation, to serve a people," wrote the condemned Bhutto. "I was not born to wither away in a death cell.'' 
The statement, 80,000 works in all, was addressed to the Pakis­tan Supreme Court and smuggled from Bhutto's cell in Rawalpmdi Central Jail. It was published in book form by Vikas Publishing House here after the military government in Pakistan blocked Its release. 
Entitled, ''If I Am Assassi­nated," the book reveals much of the 51-year-old Bhutto's brash style, personal philosophy, and fervent if not excessive belief in his own importance, said several political observers. 
"It's not a masterpiece, but it's pure Bhutto," commented a former close colleague, who had read a mimeograJ?hed copy that had been circulaung secretly in 
Alvin Rubin to attend lectures 
The Honorable Alvin B. Rubin, judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, ha.-; been named Distinguished Judicial Visitor of the Thomas J. and Alberta White Center for Law at Notre Dame and will attend a series of Law School talks this week. 
Rubin will participate in sever­al classes where he will discuss ethics in the negotiating process with White Scholars, faculty and other students. He will address a student-faculty forum at 12:15 
p.m. today in the Law School Lounge focusing on the ability of our judicial institutions to res­pond to·the needs of justice in our contemporary society. 
A 1942 law graduate of Louisi­ana State University, Rubin prac­ticed law for several years before being named U.S. District Court Judge for Eastern Louisiana in 1966, and moved to the Appeals Court in 1977. 
He is a visiting lecturer at Louisiana State University and serves as a member of the visiting committee for law schools at the Universities of Chicago, Miami and Harvard. 

Deposed Pakistani prime m.inister awaits execution after conviction 
Islamabad, Pakistan's capital. following charges of election 
The former minister's chances 
of !eSCaping the gallows are slim 
since Pakistan's Supreme Court 
last Tuesday confirmed in a 
4-to-3 decision his 1978 murder­
conspiracy conviciton by a lower 
court. He was convicted or 
ordering the 1974 murder of a 
political rival. 
Four security officers convicted in the case also are condemned to die. Bhutto's main hope is executive clemency in response to appeals sent by President Carter, Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev, U.N. Secretary­General Kurt Waldheim, Pope 
John Paul II and Chinese Com­
munist Party Chairman Hua Kuo­
feng, among others. 
Without a clemency or a stay, Bhutto could be hanged as early as Wednesday or Thursday, ac­cording to his lawyer, Yahya Bakhtiar. 
The book repeat~ Bhutto's earlier denials of the murder charges and that he rigged the 1977 general elections. Riots 
Farmers continue strike 
EL CENlRO, Calif. (AP) ­United Farm Workers leader Cesar Chavez, a rallying figure for a decade's crop of social change, is betting heavily in a high-stakes labor game that is heating up with increased vio­lence. 
The raised ante involves 4,200 farm workers on strike in Cali­fornia and Arizona since Jan. 19, bringing the lettuce harvest to a wilting halt, jeopardizing about 40 percent of the nation's winter crop and nudging supermarket prices higher each week. 
Growers, however, call the strike Chavez' "last gasp" and have launched a high-powered public relations campaign in an effort to win their fight. They also have let about $3 million of their highly perishable crop rot in the fields rather than give in to what some term "exorbitant" UFW demands. 
If successful, the walkout could raise the $3.70 minimum wage by 40 percent and firmly establish the UFW as a tough union with the muscle to back its demands. But UFW officials admit they must win a substantial part of those demands or risk losing their credibility. 
A top aide to Chavez, Marc Grossman, said the union is negotiating simultaneously with 28 vegetable growers who repre­sent the bulk of the union's contracts in the rich Imperial Valley, a once-barren expanse of desert in southeast California that has flowered into one of the nation's richest agricultural areas. 
ch1mes 
now acceptinG manusc~1pts ro~ puBlicatiOn shout essays-poetuy-ptays {ICtiOO-flOn rlctJOn-phOto(j~aphy 
-aQt WORk or all klnbs deadline March 14 
all WORk SUBffiltt€b Will B€ R€tURO€b C/O max W€Stl€R ROOm 303 ffiab€l€Va SffiC. 
l.i i. '.
\: 
' 
. 
. . 
fraud lea to his overthrow. The· 
book discloses some of Bhutto' s 
hitherto concealed policy aims. 
While prime ffilruster, he said a French-built nuclear reproces­sing plant ordered by his govern­ment would serve only peaceful uses. But in his book, Bhutto said the plant was to help Moslem Pakistan· break the "Christian-Jewish-Hindu" mon­oply on nuclear arms capability. 
"We were on the threshold of full nuclear capability when I left the government to come to theis death cell,'' Bhutto claimed. The French government stalled the deal after Bhutto was overthrown in a bloodless coup by Gen. Zia ui-Haq on July 5, 1977. 
"A coup d'etat is an un­r.Jeasant experience," he wrote. 
'It leaves behind a dreadful legacy." Bhutto drew a parallel between himself and Nixon, claiming both were· "ousted" because the "intelligence com­munity'' of both countries turned against them. 
Chavez, 50, began working the 
fieids when he was 10 years old. 
Nearly three decades later, in 
1965, he launched the first of a 
series of strike.boycotts in Cali­
fornia that propelled him to 
international prominence. 
"I think this is Chavez' last 
gasp,'' said growers spokesman 
Ron Hall on Friday. "The union 
has lost three decertification 
elections in the last few months 
and feels it needs to do some­
thifiE dramatic.'' 
That feeling has charged the strike with a current of urgency ­and violence -reminiscent of Chavez' struggles with growers in the 1960s as he tried to establish his union in an industry largely untouched by labor groups. One person has been killed and 20 injured in two major outbreaks, while scattered vio­lence has been reported almost dail . . 
{#w officials maintain the wage raise is needed to catch up with other, more establishea unions whose scales are two or three times higher. Growers insist they won't exceed Presi­dent Carter's voluntary 7 percent wage hike ceiling. 
Both sides agree the outcome of this struggle will set a pattern for farm labor wages nationwide. 
Meantime, consumers are paying the price. 
As lettuce supplies have dwindled, prices have more than doubled, from 39 cents a head two weeks ago to as high as 89 cents. 
-·······························.
The Designers at : 
cos1mo's .
.
.
• 

.Rose, Connie, and Sally.;.
.
.
. 

can be trusted 
to design your hair to . 
fit your personal need. 
please call for an appt. '177-1875 18461 st. rd;]3 
..............•~·············· ... 
.. 
··:···':"'"•'·-......... '''; ; : ... ·.-;.:"'!' -~ •''···· 
today thru saturday,, februaty 17 stepan center admission Jl.OO students J.SO dtawing at midnight febtuaty 17 fot a 1979 Oldsmobile Cutlass proceeds benefit N.D. Charities 

.. . 


I 
I ­
=T~h-e~O~b~~---e-r----------------~~.----------------------------M~o-n-d-ay-,-F-e-bru--~--1-2-,-1-9_7_9---p-age_l_O 
ACROSS DOWN 24. Distant 


Public favors SALT treaty 
c

:!5. Sobbed 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
ABOARD NDFrrH CENTRAL :AIRLINES FLIGHT 16 




A Gift Book 
is a perfect way to say 

tllOVE YOU' 


VALENTINES DAY!! 

Wednesday Febtuaty 14th 
HAmmES NOTRE DAmE -------BOOKSTORE______.. 
Asked why they . su~port a reason given was to reduce the SALT pact, the overWhelming chance of a nuclear war. 
• • • McGuire 
lcontinuedfrofn page 1] 
December were instrumental in spurring UG.A to victory. 
''I als<:> believe that Notre Dame is a _ftfth of a step slow,'' he said. 
McGUite sta~ed that th~ game was ~tensely physical, marked by some outstanding defensive play. There was very little pure excellent _offensive b~ketball m the ~arne," he noted. . 
Acc?rding to McGUite, the key pomt of the game occurred m the last mmute wh~n Notre Dame was unable to obtain a desired timeout / while David Gr:eenwood went down the court for the layur.. 
McGuire expressed l1e had no doubt that Notre Dame will go to the NCA.A tournament but in order to reach the fmal four, three things must happen: 1) there must be_ no injuries; 2) the last shot must go in; and 3) the team must be peaking at tournament time. 
McGuire believes that in the ftve games leading up to the championship, .two will be decided by three points or less. ''A coach can do everything right but the key sh~t must go in,'' he said. 
Wh~n questioned about ~s working relat~onship will Billy Packer, McGUite stated that he enJoys working with Packer. "We never disagree unless it is legitimate," he emphasized, "we do not pum.P it up just for the'cameras." McGuire said that Packer is a techniCian "he deals with the clinical-oriented sport fan, whereas I am mor~ interested in ~e human aspect of the game.'' · 
In reply to this same question, McGuire noted that the Big Ten is the better conference in college basketball. "It varies from year to year, but I feel the Big Ten is the leader this year. " 
Responding to a question concerning the pressure on coaches whose teams are near the top, McGuire pointed out that there is a tremendous wearing down on coaches during the season. 
He stated that the press accounts for a significant amount of this pressure. "A coach must always be on his toes in handling the news theatre and a 1major amount of his time is taken up by the news theatre." 
Commenting on his coaching role at Marquette, McGuire admitted that his as~istant coaches played a major role in the program, yet he never felt It was necessary to prove he was the head man. 
Concerning the upcoming poll, McGuire believes that Indiana State should be ranked number one. ''The Missourri Valley Conference is not the best conference in the country but it is extremely difficult to win 22 games without a defeat anywhere. In addition, Indiana State has the best player in the country in the person of Larry Bird.'' 
As the session came to an end, McGuire remarked that he has encountered no student body that has a greater impact on a home game than the Notre Dame student body. 
WHC club 
meets tonight 
There will be a general meeting for the World Hunger Coalition tonight at 7:30 in La­Fortune Little-Theatre. Members and non-members are welcome. 
Nazz hostesses hold meeting _ 
All Notre Dame-Saint Mary's women who are interested in working as hostesses for the Nazz should attend a meeting tonight at 7 in the LaFortune basement. For further information, please call Mary Ahern at 7375. 
ROCCOS 

men's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. ffiichigan 


,..*****************~,.. 
: only : 
,.. * 
! two bays : : t€rt to : 
* * 
: SCQ€W !
* ,..
:youQ Roommat€:· 
* \( ,..
* * 
***************~ 
I. Heavy wire 
6. Scour 
11. 
Fish delicacy 

12. 
Universe part 


14. 
Nervous: 2wds. 

15. 
Spanish­American estate 

16. 
British princess 

17. 
Face part 


19. 
Statute 

20. 
Day-by-day record 

21. 
Party for men only 

22. 
Female Navy member 

23. 
Tennis shoe 


25. 
Broader 

26. 
Violins 


28. "Jack­could eat no fat ..." 
31. Some apples 
35. Layer 36. 1\Iattress 
button 37·. Mortarboard 
38. 
Tease: slang 

39. 
Baseball glove 

40. 
Help with the dishes 

41. 
In-, to­gether 


43. Wiseman 
45. 
Trice 

46. 
Rolled up, as allag 

47. 
Shows to a chair 

48. 
Celebrations 




1. "Big Bertha" 
~-Get satisfac­tion for 
3. 
Wait 


4. 
Hang behind 

5. 
Built 


6. 
Young fellow 

7. 
Tribe 


8. 
Operated, as a busmess 

9. 
Nude 

10. 
Act like a lady 

11. 
Embers 



13. Lofty edifice 
18. -to it, hav­ing consider­able trouble: 2wd!. 
21. 
Short play 

22. 
Bit of smoke 



27. Crucial moment in a 
R 
missile launching: hyph.wd. 
0 

28. Pluck a guitar 
s

29. 
Spinets or baby grands 

30. 
Political 


s 
system 

32. Wintry phe­nomenon 
w 

33. 
Italian city 

34. 
Rapidity 


0 

36. Hues 
39. Western 
R
State: abbr. 

40. Skin growth 
D

42. Briny ex­
panse 

44. Repent 
s 


Yesterday's Answers 

NEW YORK (AP) -Public support for a new SALT union is now the highest it has been in three years, an Associated Press­NBC News poll shows. 
The increased backing for a new treaty limiting nuclear wea­pons is based on the growing perception that such a pact will enhance U.S. security and that it will reduce the chances of a nuclear holocaust. 
The burgeoning support for a new pact comes as Soviet and American negotiators work out the details of a new treaty, although no date has been set for signing a new agreement. 
Eighty-one percent of those interviewed across the country Feb. 5 and 6 said they favor a new SALT treaty. That is six points higher than the backing found in the December AP-NBC news poll and 11 points higher than the November level. 
And it is the highest level of support since the question was ftrst asked in 1976. 
This month, 14 percent oppos­ed a new pact and 5 percent were nofsure. In tandem with the rise in support for a new treaty, the public increasingly sees a SALT pact as strengtherili_l~ U.S. secur­
Ity, not weakening It,  as  critics  
say.  
Fifty-seven  percent  of  those  

questioned satd the new agree­ment would boost this country's security -up six points from the December survey and 12 points from a June AP-NBC news poll. Twenty-seven percent took the view it would weaken the U.S. military position. Sixteen per­cent of the 1,600 adults inter­viewed by telephone were uncer­tain. 
The Observer -Sports Monday, February 12, 1979 -page 11 
• • • Belles 

(continuedfrom page 12] 
mazoo the chance they needed to take the lead for the remainder of the game. SMC's 14 fouls in the ftrst half· put Kalamazoo in the bonus siruation early enabling the Cougars to edge ahead at halftime, 39-38. 
Foul trouble again plagued the Belles during the second half and Kalamazoo took advantage of many three-point plays. Saint Mary's, however, was less successful at the free throw line. 
A full-court press and a switch to a 1-3-1 zone defense by SMC in the second half hurt rather than helped the team. The quick Cougars had no trouble dribbling past the SMC press to score on numerous fast breaks before the SMC defense could set up. And Karen Caywood and Connie Oberlin for Kalamazoo took advanta~ of the weak SMC zone to combme for 16 points under the basket. 
But excellent outside shooting by Nowalk, Meg Holland and Diane Bury and fme assists by guardJean Myler kept SMC no more than two baskets behind the Cougars until 9:55 remaining in the game. 
Kalamazoo called a time out and it was a different team that emerged from the huddle. Kalamazoo strongly dominated both the offensive and defensive rebounding and committed few rurnovers. 
The Cou~ars took the lead for good with stx unanswered points and continued to outscore the Belles with another four straight baskets in the final minutes ofthe game. !'Jowalk kept _pump~g in the {X>lnts for Saint Mary's fmishing with 22 points, but the clock ran out with Kalamazoo on top, 93-74. 
.., 1Grand slam' 
(continuedfrom page 12] 
shooting performance (31 percent in the second half and 39 percent overall) was more an indication of being cold than being defensed. "When a team like ours shoots 39 percent, you know we're just not playing our game. We missed some easy shots. But I thought our defense did a great job." 
Hamilton toppea all scorers with 12 points while Greenwood dropped in 11. Vandeweghe grabbed ten rebounds while Ua..A outrebounded the Irish 
39-35. 
Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jack­son led the Irish with 11 points each on 8-21 from the floor. OnJy Flowers and Hamilton hit better than half of their shots. 
Notre Dame's record drops to 16-3 while the Bruins move up to 18-3 on the season and are a strong contender for the number one national ranking this week. 
[continuedfrom page 12] 
with a shorthanded goal he scored with Mark Pavdich on his back from the blue line on. The two shorthanded goals the Irish got on the weekend were indica­tive of the outstanding penalty killing of Humphreys and Michalek as well as of Brian Burke and Kevin Nagurski all weekend long. 
But UMD struck back midway through the period, and capped the comeback with a goal with just five seconds showmg for a 4-3 lead heading into the third period. It was a reversal of roles from the previous night. 
This time, thou·gh, the never­say-die attitude that made Notre Dame oneof the top teams in the country tor the ftrst half of the year came shining through once again. Rothsr~in notched his second goal of the night to even things u_p 4-4 at 2:03 and line­mate J effPerry and captain Steve Schneider put the Irish on top 6-4 with tallies at 5:01 and 14: 19. 
UMD came storming back just 30 seconds later on a goal by Bruce Olson, and John Harring­ton sent the game into overtime at 16:45. No one from the capacity crowd of 5,681 had budged, and the Bulldogs cer­tainly appeared to have the momentum headin~ into the extra 10 minute sess1on. 
But the Irish decided it 1:16 into the overtime with the only shot on goal of the period. Wdtzin sent a centering pass to Humphreys out near the front of 
• • • Sweep 
the net, and Humphreys quickly rerurned it to Weltzin. The junior center stuffed it by from the left of Johnson, and he nearly drowned in the flood of blue Irish jerseys that swarmed the ice in jubilation. 
But thts past weekend was only the start of Notre Dame's stretch drive to the playoffs. The Irish face three more crucial series and their last home series comes this Friday and Saturday when second place Minnesota invades the ACC. It will mark the annual Parents' Weekend for the Irish players, and could be the last time they play on home ice this year. A sellout crowd is expected, and you can bet Notre Dame will be out to make sure it won't be its last appearance at the ACC. 
All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p m . two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
cla~sifieds must be pre·paid. either in person or through the mail.


Classifieds 
Found:Dooley's green hat on bus 232 
Naad ride to ClnclnnatJ..Diyton area
from Canada. Please call Tee, room 211 
weekend of Feb. 16th or 23rd. Share
Notices 
Lyons. 
driving/expenses. Call Mike 8292 
Accurate, last typl"l Mrs. Bedford 288·2107 Hours: 8 M to 5 PM 
For Rent For Sale 
Interested In learning more about the life Stereo: Must sell, baby on war-Sansulof a Brother, Sister or Priest In the Available for next year 5·bedroom home-9090recelver, 125wattschanne, 2pair ofChurch today? Come to adiscussion and completely furnished. Call Nancy speakers, Teac 250 recorder, dual turn·film In the Farle~ Hall lounge, Thursdat, Humbarger 234-9364 table, Pickering XV15 Cartridge. CallFebruary 15, 19 9 at 9:30 pm or talk o evenings 8-9:30 232·1711the Indiana Ca,us Renewal Team In the 
For Rent: Immediate occupancy! 5-bed·
library Ioyer ednesday evening or room house, furnished and near Memor· For sale: Hockey skates, pads, etc. goodduring the day on Thursday. 
lal Hos~ltal. 6 month lease, $300 month quality and condition. Call Don, 1684. ~s ut lilies and security deposit. Call 
-

bbie 233-3161.
NOCTURNE NIGHTFLIGHT, WSN0-89 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun.
FM. NIGHTRAIN CANE FEATURES Furnished <Hi bedroom house for rent 9-7 Ralph Casperson, 1303 BuchananGOOD TUNES TONIGHT. 
this fall. Walkl~ distance to campus. Road, Niles. 683-2888. Nice. Call 272·1 29 alter 7:00pm. OFF CAMPUS STUDENT! Full size [6
Furnished lour-bedroom house for rent, . ft.] refrigerator for ule. $60 1787-ask couple of blocks from campus for next tor Peter•.
Lost&Found school year, m-3604 Must sell. 1976 Toyota longbed truck. 
Big country house for rent furnished, Low mileage. Excellent condition. ~hi to ten minutes travel, for next $1 .~. Work evenings. Call alter 11:00 ool year, 277·3604. p:in. Ask for Curly. 287-4562. 
Lost: set of keys ~8) on a CAPRICORN key ring. Please ca 1288·1893 and ask for Dave or Mark. 
Wanted Tickets
Lost: At N D a sterling sliver Mexican bracelet with 4sections. Please call Meg, 4781. 
Wanted: 2 GA La Salle tickets, call
Need ride to U. of Mich. on March 2 and 
Maribeth 3845.
lost: One pair of ~lasses around north ride back alter the game of the 4th. If you quad on F&b. 7. If ound call Pat, 1827 can help, call Mike 3889. 
Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets for LaSalle game. Call3836
Lost-set of keys at or outside ACC OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Monday night. If founq.:rll W4 Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. 
Need 2 GA TIK for LaSalle B·ball game.
All fields, $500 · $1,200 month~. 
Call Tim at 8440.
Lost: One college class ring--St. John Expenses paid. Sightseeing. ree Fisher College. all 2n-9841. lnfo.--Wrlte: IJC, Box4490-14, Berkeley, 
Urgent~ require 2 GA LaSalle tlx! Call
CA 94704 
John " K" Julien at 1771.
Lost: One crutch outside of the Library about a week and a half m· If you've B111111ld WIRtld-afgly In penon It Call John even If you don't have tickets Warren, Mike Galvin, 
seen this crutch alive, call Ike at1678. Nickles, Tun. tllru Ul"'. After Bpm. 
for him; especially If you're of the fairer Congratulations on Berkeley. You're such a ~en!! Thanks so much 
sex! for seelqg all m~ uddles home; I'm just
Lost: one pair rimless eyeglasses, gold Need ride to Milwaukee Thurs. 15 or Fri. B. sorry I couldn't ave been there too. See frame. 288-4540 16. Call Pat, 8479 Need 6 LaSalle tickets (GA or student) Grey Hedges Is a sweetheart! you Friday (Pierre loses), If not sooner! Call John, 1031.
Lost: To the person who "found" my Need ride to Miami of Ohio (or that Cyn-
HAPPY BIRTHDAY NADINEII
book and notebook In room 202 Business direction; Cln., Dayton, even lndi.) on Welcome back and have agood week tool
Help! Urnently need 2 GA LaSalle LOVE,
Bldg., please return. Call Pat, 1474. Fri., Feb. 16. Paul-8841 Brian
tickets. Cal .6725. THE "COWARDLY UON" 
KEN KRAFT
Personals 
Ken, you got your name In print again! Maura.
The Senior Arts Festival I$ loo~ J,slr Thanks so much lor the call Saturdayphotographers. Any Interested seniors 
night. How can IIVIr thank you??
can submit their work to Sybil Young, 317 Badin, or Kevin Pritchett, 124 Keenan. 
GEH 

Cindy Don't fo7tet to buy your tlx for the O..C Kick the habit 
Tennla oumeyl Clll 234-19M by Frldlyl
Jim-Bob 

Johnny R, The tall girl In the cafeteria--same time You were an absolute doll last Friday! 
Monday. It takes one helluva guy to be that kind and considerate. You're quite unique! Chris McNulty: 
And Saturday.. weiH've never loved Is theJf'rty still on? See you An Tostal being so damn cold ever before! Believe 
weeken ! me, that's the honest truth! From: Friendly Chris 
(Hint: Phi Kap groupie),
Fondly, A Super Girl 

P.S. You and your parents are always In Happy Birthday Bill McCall! my prayers. 
Love & Kisses. 

Goose Patty Hackett will be having lunch In F·Line on Wednesday. Be kind to her. 
To:Brother Viator, Brother Rod, Father Jack, Kath, Mark, Ellen, all of Stanford Hall, and especially 1 E·W...Thank yolu
Actullly, Pit Schroeder doean't knew 1ny girls for all your carlnH and pr~ers for my 
mother. You're a I super. hank ~ou,
r.::rsonally. Wh~ don't you call him 1nd ntnlduce yeune ,nd wlah 111m 1 HIJIII¥ 
-uane 21st? 3073. 
TO, Take a chance! Maybe I don't have Guess what folks!! This week Is "Kiss 
red! your Favorite Checker"·week. So get out there and show them just how much we Mark Liedberg: 
appreciate them!! Happy Belated Birthday! I.O.U. one trip to the Bahamas. How about next weekend? 
Anne Pit Schroeder­H1ppy Blrthd~l 
Sue-· Klthy, lleen, Suzie, Debbie I, Don't feel bad--we're rully proud IJf Debbie 2, "Tittles," Snurs;Bug, Trlsh, you .• C1rrte, 1n Sugar KnHs. 
Guess who??? 



UCLA Bruins stop Notre Dame short of achieving 'grand slam' 
by Ray 0 'Brien Sports Editor 

While the action between the beginning and the end of Sunday's Notre Dame-UCLA clash dtdn't develop as expected, the margin between the winner and loser was once again very close as the Bruins outdefensed the Irish 56-52. 
Notre Dame took the game's biggest lead, scoring seven un­
-answered points at the outset before thts usually exciting matchup turned into one of the more boring nationally televised college basketball games of the year. The Bruins got back in the games as super-guards, Brad Holland and Roy Hamilton led an eight point surge to· tie the game at 12-12 before both teams start­ed missing. A sluggish UCLA team, who had to go to overtime to beat USC on Friday night, had the shooting blues first as none of the Bruin starters could find the range for the first 14 minutes. Notre Dame dido' t fair much better as turnovers and missed layups kept the UCLA team from going to the locker room with a double-digit deficit. All of the Irish scorers got in the act as Tripucka's five first half points topped the home team. Hamilton and Varideweghe led all scorers with six markers after twenty minutes as Notre Dame stumbled to a 28-25 halftime lead. 
In a haphazard first stanza, the Irish shot 48 percent to their guests' 44 percent. Tough defenses caused nine turnovers on both teams part. 
If the first half looked sloppy, things were only to get worse, withNotre Dame leading the way in missed chip shots. 
Tripucka hit an 18 footer to open up a 30-25 lead at the start of the second half, but this was not a sign of what was to come as Wilkes brought UCLA back two minutes later with six straight points to tie the score at 40-40. 
The pace of the games was slowed despite missed shots as b~t~ teams ~ot. int? foul trouble hittmg die !unit wtth almost 12 minutes still remaining in the contest. Notre Dame was charged with six straight fouls during one UCLA possession. -During the long stretch of fouls, the Irish went six minutes without scoring a point and made it eight minutes without a field goal. Things only' got worse for Digger Phelps· crew as they scored only two field goals be­tween the 17:31 and 3:05 mark" as the ball seemed to get bigger and the hole smaller. 
Gary Cunningham's crew gra­ciously kept Notre Dame in the game with assorted missed shots and turnovers but found them­selves ahead 48-42 thanks to a tough man-to-man defense and solid rebounding. 
Jackson connected on a 15 footer with three minutes left 

sending desperate Irish fans into pandemonium as their team nar­rowed the lead to 50-46. 
From there the "game of all games'' can1e down to the cool play of no-name UCLA freshman, Tyren Naulls. Naulls sank four free throws in one-and-one situa­tions that James Wilkes had missed the year before to cost the Bruins the game. Naulls last four points finished the scoring at 56-52. 
A subdued Naulls would not overplay his last second heroics after the game commenting, ''You go up there and figure you have a 50-50 chance. Luck was just on my side. I had never been in a situation like that before and I didn't want them to foul me. I dido' t like the pressure and I'm just glad its over." ­
However, Naulls tean1ffiates indicated that this freshman was not a goo~ p~~son to _foul. ''Ty _is a cocky kid, explamed Hamil­ton. "We never said anything to him. We all knew he would sink them.'' 
Holland explained his team's slow start, "We weren't patient on offense at first. We decided we had to get the ball inside more. 
The senior All-American con­tinued, "We were a little tired and just came out cold. But we pride ourselves on a tough man­to-man defense and that kept us in the game.'' 
Phelps felt that his teams poor 
[continued on page 11] 

Monday, February 12, 1979 -page 12 
4ffllf'(%• 
W#f'··· 
Rich Branning attempts a jump shoi' in yesterday's 56-52 Insh loss to the Bruins ofUCLA. It was one ofonly 9 Notre Dame field goals in the second stanza. [Photo by Doug Chnstian] 

Dave Laun·on got in the way ofMinnesota-Duluth's charge to remain atop the heap in the WCHA. [Photo by john Macor] 
Saint Mary's Belles lose to'· Kalamazoo College, 93-74 
by Debbie Dahrling Women Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's basketball team was handed another loss Saturday as a second-half scoring drive by Kalamazoo Valley Community College shut down the Belles, 93-74. 
Scoring was sluggish at the onset of the game due to many turnovers. Kalamazoo's Cathy Heator broke the ice with a basket from the outside. which was the beginning of her domi­nance on the court. Heator went on to score 26 points in the game, 24 from the field and two from the line. 
The Belles' offense got under way with a .15-foot jumper by guard Maureen 0'Brien and the scoring was back-to-back for-the ftrst half. The teams appeared to be evenly matched with fme shooting by SMC forwards Nancy Nowalk and Martha Kelly and the Cougar's He a tor and Lori Schneider. 
But the Belles' recurrent problem with fouls gave Kala­
[continued on pag~ iz] 

Irish icers sweep 7-3, 7-6 
by Brian Beglane Sports'Wn"ter 

DULUTH, Minn. -The Notre Dame hockey team could not have picked a better time to come up with its best two-game per­formance of the second half of the now dwindling Western Col­legiate Hockey Ass.ociation season. 
There were several factors involved. The Irish had dropped six of their last 10 league games heading into the weekend, and had not been able to string together two solid games in a row. They were in ftfth place, 
and fighting for home ice as they began the stretch drive towards the playoffs. And they had not swept on the road all year, with six of their last eight games co_ming on the road. 
But Notre Dame responded to all the pressure by sweeping the hottest team in the WCHA, Minnesota-Duluth, in enemy territory with a solid 7-3 victory Friday and a 7-6 overtime win Saturday at the Duluth Arena. The Bulldogs had been tied for second with Minnesota before the weekend and were ranked no. one in the country the last two weeks, rio less. 
Notre Dame took care of the the latter -ranking, however, while improvin~ its league record to 15-10-1 and Its overall mark to 16-13-1. More importantly, 
. though, the Irish took advantage of sweeps of Wisconsin and Michigan Tech to move from ftfth place in the WCHA to a tie for third with UiviD. ''Our performance Friday ni~ht was our best since beating Wtsconsin in early December," 
said lnsh coach Lefty Smith, "And getting four points on the road against a team that was as hot as Duluth and that was ranked no. one in the country makes it that much better. 
"We showed balanced scoring throughout the series, and Friday night I thought we did a great job throughout the lineup. It was just a total team victory, an excellent job by everyone." 
Duluth came out strong in the opening minutes of the ftrst period, though, and jumped ahead 1-0 on a power play goal by Bill Oleksuk. But John Friedman and Greg Meredith answered back with two goals in five minutes, Meredith's goal coming 
on a rebound shot at 9:36, to give 
the Irish a 2-1 lead after one 
period. 
The Bulldogs started out strongly in the second period, and tied it when Irish goalie Dave Laurion lost sight of a loose puck near the net and Mark Pavelich put it by at 5:10. But Tom Michalek turned back the tide for the Irish at 11 :2S with an unas­sisted shorthanded goal after some nifty forechecking. Then John Harrington took an errant pass by the Irish defense in the slot and beat a helpless Laurion at 17:08 to even things up for the last time for the Bulldogs, 3-3. 
But the key goal come with just 11 seconds remaining in the period. Irish defenseman John Schmidt intercepted a pass at his blueline and skated to mid-ice, where he put a wrist shot by UMD goalie Bill Perk!, who played with a 102 degree fever, for a 4-3 lead Notre Dame would never lose. 
Jeff Brownschidle continued the pressure with a goal just 41 seconds into the third for a 5-3 lead, and Ted Weltzin and Jeff Logan closed out the scoring midway through the period. Perk! stopped 31 Irish shots while Laurion made 23 saves. 
Coming into the game, UMD had lost only once in 15 contests. The Bulldogs have never finished better than fifth in 13 seasons in the WCHA, ·and with their recent play, the whole city of Duluth has nearly gone hockey crazy. Local businessmen have come out with a "Triumphant Towel" (a Ia Pittsburgh Steelers ''Terrible Towel") and UMD "Puppy Love'' buttons can be seen on almost all of the more than 5,000 fans at each game. Losing 7-3 Friday was hard for them to swallow, and losing the next night in overtime proved even tougher to digest. 
Weltz£n 's goal wins it in OT 
Perk! was too weak to go in the nets for UMD Saturday night, and Jeff Johnson got the nod for the Bulldogs. SlDlth stayed with Laurion again, and the freshman netminder responded with a superb performance, making 34 saves, 13 in the final period. His outstanding play made up for several Irish defensive lapses in the slot and kept the Irish in the game. 
Bill Rothstein, playing head to head against older brother John of UMD, gave the Irish a quick 1-0 lead at 3:08 off a nice setup from Dave Poulin. Oleksuk and Logan then exchanged power play goals for a 2-1 Irish lead after one. 
Kevin Humphreys increased the advantage to 3-1 just 50 seconds into the middle oeriod 
[continued on page 11) 




