, , , 'But/roaring ' -page 7 

THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 1979 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's VOL. XIII, NO. 122
I 
1 


House committee rejects Carter's gas ration plan 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The. House Commerce Committee voted narrowly yesterday to reject President Carter's stand­by {>ian for rationing gasoline by tssuing ration checks and coupons to car owners. 
Carter publicly appealed to committee members to approve the plan a few hours before the 23-19 vote, but to no avail. 
Though the rationing propo­sal did not die as a result of the committee's action, ultimate congressional approval seems unlikely. The plan will get another chance before the full House, and a vote is scheduled 
Reid approves OFSC referendum 
by Brian McFeeters 
in the Senate Energy Commit­tee today. 
In seeking to rescue the rationing plan, Carter said, "Should serious supply inter­ruptions occur, America's ar­senal of available measures must include contingency plans to ration gasoline and to man­date conservation by the Amer­ican public." 
"If these standby plans are not passed by the Congress, the public could rightly ask why their government was not p~e­pared for an emergency, parttc­ularly after the warning given by the Iranian supply cunail­ment," he said in a statement released by the White House. 
As the House panel debated rationing, Energy Secretary James R. Schlesinger appeared before a joint House-Senate subcommittee to defend Car­ter's decision to lift controls on oil prices. 
In a sometimes sarcastic 
exchange with Sen. Edward M. 
A referendum concerning a 

Kennedy, D-Mass., Schlesin­Treaty is verifiable boycott of Campell's and Lib­ger said the administration has 
by's products at Notre Dame the votes to defeat any move inwill be held one week from the Senate to block Carter'stoday, according to a represent­decision to permit a gradual


Carter predicts SALT's success 
ative of the Ohio Farmworkers phaseout of the controls. 

. Support Committee (OFSC) on Liberals like Kennedy have NEW YORK (AP)-President defense and intelligence sec-White House press secretary, c~unpus. Director of Student said that removing these con­Carter offered assurances yes-· rets, which the administration accused Sen. Jake Garn, Activities John Reid yesterday trols will play into the hands of 
terday that the United States is sharing with Congress, be R-Utah, of leaking inaccurate officially approved the special the oil companies, cost con­will be able to detect and guarded carefully "so that the and distorted information about vote proposed by the OFSC. 
sumers too much and worsen quickly respond to any Soviet debate does not undermine our U.S. ability to verify Soviet Reid explained m his letter to inflation considerably. 

cheating on a nuclear weapons security.'' committee organizer Ann Su{>porters have said the
Last week, Jody Powell, the [continued on page 2] Huber that the committee has
limitation treaty. addittonal revenues are needed
made ''a sufficient educational

''The treaty must and wiJJ to offset the difference between 
be verifiable from the day it is effort'' by publicizing informa­U.S. and foreign oil prices and signed,'' Carter said in a tion on the Ohio migrant worker 
to encourage development of speech to the American News­issue, and has fulfilled all hard-to-find oil reserves.

SM C building committee 

paper Publishers Association. criteria for referendums set by As for the president's propo­the Administration earlier this
He said he was concerned sal to Congress to approve a

recommends library site

with the loss of two installations year. "windfall profits" tax on half
1'he letter specified that of!>

in Iran that had given U.S. the additional revenues from
Margie Brassil 

monitors a ringside view of ficial University backing of the decontrol, Kennedy said,Soviet missile launchinss. Assistant St. Mary's Editor boycott would require that a 
"Quite frankly I think it's amajority of undergraduate stu-

But with photographtc satel­charade." 
· 

dents vote in favor of thelites and other surveillance Proceeds from the tax would systems, he said, "We are measure. Reid told Hubec that 
The Saint Mary's Library Building Co!llmittee . made a go into a special fund that confident that no significant unanimous recommendation yesterday regardmg the stte for the graduate students should he would provide revenues for new
allowed to vote also, but their

violation of the treaty could take new library. The recommendation will be considered by the Board sources of energy, mass transit 
'v ores would not be counted

place without the United States of Regents at its next meeting, May 10-11. . and federal grants to poor
toward the 3,272 total votes

detecting it.'' According to Jason Lindower, controlle~, ~he recommended stte people who could not cope with 
needed for the referendum

Carter gave no indication, lies immediately west of the Science BUtldmg, North of LeMans energy price increases resulting meanwhile, what is holding up Hall and South of the Angela Athletic Facility. results to be binding. from the removal of controls.
A campus-wide boycott of

the treaty. In Washington, ''This site was one offour under consideration and was chosen as At one point, Schlesinger said
Campbell s and Libby's pro­

Secretary of State Cyrus R. a 'happy compromise between the other sites,"' explained Kennedy's analysis of decon­
ducts has been sought by the

Vance met for 50 minutes at the Lindower. trolled oil prices "represents a 
State Department with Soviet The LeMans parking lot was the second choice ~ut there wo~ld Farmworkers' Support Com­compendium of misrepresenta­Ambassador Anatoly F.Dobry­have been a problem relocating it. The other chotces were, a s1te mittee since early February, tions that threaten to mislead nm. across from the present library, which would have meant filling in when a few students were the American people."
pan of Lake Marion, and a location south of Madel eva Hall on the contacted by representatives of
Afterward, Dobrynin said he Critics of Carter's rationing
the Farm Labor Support Com­

would see Vance asain. "We athletic hockey field. plan said it would cost too
''The favorable advantages and lack ~f ?.is3:dvantages leq the mittee, a union of over 2,000
just continued to dtscuss," he much, unfairly penalize the
committee to_choose the.recommendeq stte, Lmdower explamed. migrant workers in tomato-rich
told reporters. "I can't say poor for not owning two or more
The committee conststs of Prestdent John ~-Duggan; no.rthern Ohio.
anything about an announce­cars and cost too much to
Vice-President William A. Hickey; Controller Jason Lmdower, Jr.; 
The president of the union,

ment, but we will have another administer.
Vice-President for College Relations Lawrence Durance; and Sr. 
Ba.ldemar Velasquez, came to

meeting.'' Bernice Hollenhorst head librarian. Other members of the Rationing is one of four
Notre Dame in late February
State Department spokesman standby mandatory conserva­
committee are Board of Regents Members; Sr. Bas~l Anthony and explained to the newly

Hodding Carter, asked to ex­O'Fiynn· Chairman of the Board, Sr. M. Bertrand Sulltvan; Jerry tion J?lans voted on by the
formed committee that the rot­
plain the protracted negotia­Hamme~, Edward J. Hussey, Dorothy Feigl and Mary Rita commtttee.
grant workers were starting the tions, said the two sides were Hellmuth. . The panel rejected proposals 

boycott to force the powerful

exr!oring _ter~s with "theologi­Faculty members David Sever and Kevin McDonnell, semor for authority to close gasoline
cannery owners, Campbell's

ca mtenstty. Colleen Ann Cannon, library staff members Robert Hohl, Lola stations on weekends and to
and Libby's, to negotiate con­"It gets more and more Philippsen, head librarian emerita Sr. Rita Claire Lyons and South 
darken outdoor advertising
tracts. The canneries set pricesdifficult the closer we get,'' he Bend businessman Uoyd Taylor are also members of the lighting. It approved a plan f?r 
at the beginn~ng ?f each seas~o
said. Committee. 
controls over thermostats towithout constdenng the basteIn his speech, President Car­•'It is hoped that the Board of Regents will make its final site public buildings. 
needs of thousands of depend­ter asked the publishers to selection decision by the end of thei~ meeting ~n May,'' L~ndower Each plan will be debated contribute to the public debate said. He added that at the present ttme t~ere_ts no ~entattve date able tomato harvesters, accord-again and voted on later in the over the treaty. At the same for the ground-breaking, because the proJeCt IS conttngent on the [continued on page 8] House.

amount of funds raised.
time, he asked that sensitive 
----·~-~-· 




News in brief 
Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 2 
Peds may limit schools' participation in job program 
WASHINGTON (AP) --A church-state controversy was reported brewing this week over a proposed federal move to cut participation by church-related sdiools in aJ'ob-training program 10 which they have long participate . Voicing "grave concern" about it, Bishop Thomas C. Kelly, general secretary of the U.S. Catholic Conference, sent detailed documentation about the move to all Catholic bishops in the coumry. He said the proposed new labor department regulations were advised by the justice department in reaction to an American Civil Liberties Union lawsuit in Milwaukee against CET A participation by church schools. He said the move not only woufd directly affect ability of Catholic and Protestant schools to participate in a major national welfare program, but also Implies "far broader" limitations on the rore of church-related institutions. 
Tass claims correspondent misbehaved on tour 
MOSCOW (AP) --The Soviet news agency Tass said yesterday that Robin Knight, Moscow correspondent for U.S. News and World Report, drank too much. vodka, broke dishes, insulted waitresses and then invented a story about the a_ttempted rape of his wife to mask his behavior. Knight said the Tass account was ''devoid of truth.'' Knight, 3), a British subject, claimed Monday he was drugged and his wife, Jean, 29, molested April 18 during a tourist trip to Tashkent, in Soviet Central Asia. 

Rubin predicts revolution over nuclear power 
DURHAM, New Hampshire (AP) -, Fvrmer anti-war activist Jerry Rubin says the threat of nuclear power is "laying the foundation for a 1980s revolution.'' ''When the outburt comes, we'll see the best of both worlds," Rubin said Tuesday at the University of New Hampshire. "People will fight with a sense of solidarity they learned from the '60s, and with an honesty and awareness they learned from the '70s. People will join in a community of self-awareness ... and realize they must take a responsibility for their planning." Rubin, now 40, delivered his lecture, "Twenty Years of Change,'' to more than 600 people. It was hls first visit to the university since 1970, when he spoke in defiance of a court order during a student strike. Kt the time, he was known as a member of the "Chicago 7," who had been prosecuted for their part in demonstrations at the 1964 Democratic national convention. 
I f, ~


Weather.. 
A 30 percent chance of rain today. Turning cooler with steady or slowly falling temperatures. A 60 percent chance of rain tonight. Lows in the low 40s. Qoudy and colder tomorrow with highs in the upper 40s. 
AN TOSTAL TODAY THROUGH APRIL 29 ND AND SMC CAMPUSES 
3:30pm, HONOR AWARDS CEREMONY, speaker dr. john mamnon "some nonlethal advice", C.C. E. AUD. 
4:30 
pm, INTERHALL SOCCER, flanner vs. winner of keenan-dillon game, A.C.C. SOCCER FIELD 

4:30 
pm, FORUM, "age discrimination", by dr. arthur fleming, MEM. LIB. AUD. 


5-6:30 pm, voting for ugly man at both the nd and smc dining halls 
fi:30 pm, MEETING, off campus council, OFF CAMPUS ROOM LA FORTUNE 
7 pm, FILM PREVIEW, of prime time series, A/V THEATRE C.C.E. 
7:30 pm, LECTURE, "implicit genre theory in wolfgang iser's phenomenology of reading", by prof. donald castro, LIB. LOUNGE 
8 pm, lecture, austria today: economic and political aspects by dr. erich kristen, MEM. LIB. AUD. 
8 pm, CONCERT, st. mary's college spring choral concert, LITTLE THEATRE 
8:15 pm, "arioso", carol alder--reading of her poetry, CROWLEY HALL 

1980.
[continued from page I) 
Career said a treaty limiting 

compliance with a new strategic U.S. and Soviet strategic bomb­arms limitation treaty. ers and intercontinental ballis­Some critics have questioned tic missiles would bring signifi­
U.S. verification capabilities, cant reductions in Soviet strate­particularly with the loss of the gic forces, greater certainty in stations in Iran. They have U.S. defense planning, flexibil­seized on acknowledgements ity to meet U.S. defense needs, from within the admimstration a foundation for further controls that it will take some time to on nuclear and conventional compensate for the loss. arms, and self-respect and the 
Carter concentrated on veri­earned respect of the world for fication, possibly th~ m?st ex­a United States committed to plosive SALT issue m dtspute, peace. 10 assuring the publishers that "Without SALT," Carter the treaty would make the said, "the world would be United States even more se­forced to conclude that America cure. had chosen confrontation rather 
''No objective has command­than cooperation and peace.'' ed more energy and attention Meanwhile, Garn said Carter in our negotiation," Carter was ''misleading the American said. "We have insisted that public in a desperate attempt to the SALT II agreement be made verifiable.'' 
Following the speech, Carter flew to New Hampshire to attend a town meeting and a 

Erratum

Democratic fund-raiser in the state that traditionally leads off the presidential primary sea­
The senior trip to Acapulcoson. He planned to return to will not be extended to sevenWashington tonight. 

nights and eight days as re­The chairman of the Demo­ported in yesterday's Observer.

cratic National Committee, 
Due to an oversight on theJohn White, said yesterday that 

part of The Observer the

Carter planned to run in every 
announcement was never

presidential primary election in pulled after plans had been changed. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Sherry Mum­mert Asst. Night Editor: Margie Kruse, johnny Smith Copy Reader: john McGrath Layout Scaff: Suzy Marshall Editorial Layout: Rod Beard Features Layout: Ann Mo­'laghan 5ports Layout: Beth Huff wan Typists: Lisa Dz'Valen·o, Tom Pipp, Beth U:'zll.zrd. Pete Mcf<adden EMT: ???1.1 Day Editor: M.anbeth Moran Ad Design: Matt DeSalvo Phorngrapher: C1te MaJ!,ln­ms 
1111 Obllrwr [USPS a 1211 tr l*bllsllld Mlllilr uv.p Fftdly ... i'flldllrilll tlllllaM ..............
the Observer Is publlalllil br die studenta of Nlllnl DIIRI llld Sllllt Miry'• Colllgl. Slilllcr1p11ana IIIIJ Ill 
jiiii"CCI.aed ,., $21 ,.,. ,.,. 1$10 ,., ......-rltrtm The Observl(', l'_.o. t. 
Q, Notre b11111,ltldlillll 41556. ~ elliS "=' !*ld, Notre 011111, 111­
dllni . 
The Observer 11 1 1111111111r of till Asaociated Preu. All repnlductlon rlghtl lrl rtiiMd. 

River City Records/Celebration Belkin Proudly present 


Wednesday, May 23 · 8:00pm Notre Dame ACC 

Tickets $12.00/$10.00 all seats reserved and !(O on sale this friday April 27 at 9:00am at the ACC Rox office only! On sale mondav. at all River Ci~y Review ticket outlets 
Limit 10 Tickets Per Person 






ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
&>phomores may start placing ring orders Hours: 9:00 am to 4:30pm Mon.-Fri. 
in office on second floor of 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
"' 

BookstOR€ 


• • • SALT 
sell an unfair agreement.'' He said Career's statements on verification conflicted with those expressed recently by CIA Director Stansfield Turner and Defense Secretary Harold Brown. 
Turner has been quoted as telling a secret session of the Senate Intelligence Committee that it would take five r.ears to recover fully the capabdity lost with the Iranian stations. 
Brown said the ability to verify the provision of SALT II would be recovered in a year. 

ARmANDO'S 

BARBER & HAIR STYLE SHOP.~ 1437 N.lronwood Dr. South Bend 
277-0615 

Sue, Ruthie, Kim 

Armando-stylist mon-wed-fri 8-5:30 tues-thurs 8-Spm sat B-2by appt. only sa.t-no appt. needed 

The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 3 
Editor's Note: This article is J!ersonneJo~~er calling ~turn _, the /irs/ in a two-part senes · to the draft mevmilile, wliile 
1

dealing with the question ofthe the Secreta~y ~f the Armyposszble re-instatement of the report~dly IS strongly. op-military draft. Today 's story posed to such a resump.uon. exammes some ofthe different At a recen~ Senate heanng on proposals being considered and the resumpuon of the draft, Lt.
Observer the views of several qualified Gen. Rober.t,G: Yerks told panel local authon"ties on the matter. me~_bers, Gtven cur~ent. (r~­Tomorrow's installment ·will ~ruu_mg) trends, I thmk It IS look more closely at the alt~rna­~nevuable that ~orne. type ~f



Insight: 
tives a1Jd the problems that a mvoluntary service will be m return to the draft could pre­order. The only question IS sent. 
when.'' . South Bend Democrauc Con-

Will the 
gressman John ~rademas was more non-commHal at a press 
b-y}ohn McGrath 
Senior Staff Reporter 

conference on Monday. 
"It's too early to say (what 
An old, familiar issue is quiet­action will b~ taken on ~~e draft ly making its way back into the proposals) nght no:w,. Bra~­headlines--the military draft. em as, the Ho~~e MaJon_ty Whtp
draft The prospects of re-instatement commented, but I dtd meet of the draft remain shrouded in the other day with the Secretary uncertainty, but at the present of the Army, and he very
return? time, there are six bills pending strongly opposes a return to the in House and two in the Senate draft. ' ' . that could quickly change that Robert Kerby, assoctate pro-situation. fessor ofhistory, is one ?f many 

military 
people who are watchmg the
Government officials them­

situation closely. "I expect at
selves see-m w he-d1vHkd on 

least the reestablishment of
the ;ssuc with the r\nm ·., top 

registration,'' Kerby predicted. ''I know a lot of, !Dilitary men who are nervous. "It's much more than the simple question of isolation­

NRC recommends shutdown 
ism,'' Kerby continued. ''This issue also involves ~he question of whether the U.S. wants to have a mercenary army, and 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The that these B&W plants can ultimately the simple question staffof the Nuclear Regulatory continue to operate without of survi-val. " Commission recommended yes­undue risks," Denton said. The bills that have been terday temporarily shutting Denton said the plants should introduced call for a variety of down eight nuclear power be closed temporarily until government action ranging plants designed by Babcock & short-term improvements can from required registration of all. Wilcox, builder of the stricken be made and further safety 18-26 year olds to the simple Three Mile Island plant near analyses can be completed, re-instatement of the draft sys­Harrisburg, Pa. showing whether additional ac­tem to a proposal offerin~ a 
tions are required. choice between military or civil­The four B&W plants cur­ian service. rently shut down voluntarily are The last bill would provide for 

for eight nuke plants 
We believe that these 
Arkansas Unit I in Arkansas, a compulsory national service · 
David Besse in Ohio, Crystal and offer choice between two plants should be River in Florida, and Three years of military service, one Mile Island Unit I. year of civilian service, six Denton told the commission­years in the armed forces

shutdown now. 
ers the shutdowns would last at reserve, or taking a chance on least two months, just "to get the military draft lottery. some technical answers," and "Lt. Col. Henry Gordon, com­
The five-member commission possibly could last much long­manding · officer of Notre remained in session, quizzing er. Dame's Army ROTC, said that staff members, as it prepared to to the best of his knowledge the decide the issue. Army has not established any Such an order would force the specific policy on the matter. closing of four Babcock & "As far as I know, they're ( Wilcox J?lants -Rancho Seco in the draft proposals) just propos­


Erratutn

Californta, where the NRC staff als and that's it right now,'' says electric reliability would Gordon stated. "You're going not be greatly harmed, and the to have to take a look at who's
Due to a typographical error,

three Oconee units in South involved, to what degree, and
The Observer incorrectly

Carolina, which would reduce who's exempted before you
reported yesterday that InPIRG 

generating reserves to an un­come to any concrete conclu­
will be an orgamzation which

comfortably thin margin in the sions about the entire matter,
demands great amounts of 

Southeast. but as for now, nobody knows
students' time. InPIRG will not 

In addition to the badly what form( draft proposals) they 
·demand great amounts of students' time. InPIRG will
damaged Three Mile Island will take. " Unit 2, which may not reopen Mike Burrell, a Notre Dame
maintain an open door policy

for two or three years, ifat all, regarding student input. ~enior, and a certified consci­four other B&W plants have Students can devote as much or entious objector during the been shut down by their opera­as little time to research work Vietnam War, holds the view tors for refueling, maintenance as they choose. The Observer that a return to the draft seems or safety review. These shut downs could be continued by an NRC order. 
Harold Denton, NRC director of nuclear reactor regulation, who said Monday he was "leaning" in the direction of shutdowns, told the commis­sion yesterday, "We believe that these ~!.ants should be shut down now. 
He said the staff found the design and equipment of the B&W plants makes them more sensitive to malfunction and harder to control. 
"We conclude that we do not now have reasonable assurance 
>0Raj:tS roQ $1.00 

thURS • ~RI • sat 4·7pm

T-shirts ready 
An Tostal t-shirts may be picked up at the An Tostal office from noon to 7 p.m. today. 

"I think they're going to reinstitute the draft because people want to make' sure that the country is pretty well de­fended,'' Burrell observed, 
•'But I think that the only equitable routes that are open are either registration or com­pulsory national service.'' 
Following his approval as a conscientious objector in 1972, Burrell worked for two years in a hospital. 
Burrell, who plans to enter medical school, added, "It was a really worthwhile thing for my life. By working at the hospital, I made up my mind to be a doctor." 
"I think compulsory national service has many advantages," Burrell noted, ''but right now I think the chances for that kind of program being passed are pretty slim." 
The draft became a focal point 
for opposition to the Vietnam War 10 the late 1960's and the early 1970's, In 1971, opposi­tion. peaked and induction au­thority lapsed for several months after July 1, until Congress reluctantly voted to extend the induction authority to .July 1, 1973. Six months before that terminal date, Pres­ident Nixon ended inductions. In 1975 President Ford, com­mitted to making an All-Vol­unteer Force, ended draft regis­tration. 

At that time, Ford moved to put the selective Service system m "deep standby" by request­ing only $6.8 million for its orerations--down from a peak o $80 million in 1972. 
The recent debate centers a­round figures released by the Army Chief of Staff, indicating that there is an approximate 500,000-man shortage in the Individual Ready Reserve. Other Army officials also say re-instatement of the draft is necessary to solve the current doctor shortage, in the ranks of the military. 

-IN~Lfro.D
JACK LEMMO JANE FONDA MICHAEL DOUG 
~ ~ 
·Shows 1:oo-3:10-5:20-7:30-9:50 
·5 Academy Awards No passes No bargain matinee.
THE DEER HUNTER 




IIAttentfon Current Transfers 
The orientation committee is looking for 1nterested students, especially current transfers, to help out with next year's incoming transfers. The committee is working with the off-campus 
council 1n plannmg such activities as a wine 

and chees_e re\eption, bar-b-que and happy hour. 1lt won't take much of your time and we need ~ lot of people so that each transfer will be paired off. If you are interested call 

Lori 288-3933, John 8847 or Anne 1322 for more information 




r---~--------,--, I
1 $l.OO off. 1 I 
• coupon I I
l-------....----..--.......... I 
$1.00 off any album or rape wirh this COU[>On. Limit one per person. Now through May 7. N01 good on I cut-ours, imports or sale items: Coupon rnu~t be­
I
presented before purchase is rung into'ash r. ·gtsrer 
I 
• ND/SMCchetks ac(:epted for up to $20.00 

1 
over purchase amoum
• 18,000 albums and tapes in stock!!' II • Couldn't get what you wanted from th_e I

1 I
Student Union? We'll (ash your refund 
~~; ·c\ii0.::)c~f&,. City Re®rds · -~~ · I 





:t:~=~~.r:~t~::=.J 
~

~ .. ················ -................ ~ ................ ......, 
. _______ ..,. __ -----------------------·-------------.........____.____ _
----~----------------·-----~­
The Observet 



COLUMBIA 

STEREOLPS SERIES798 



$4.99 
ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACK RECORDING 
HAIR 

STEREO·LPS SERIES1498 


$9.59 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
The Hatntnes 
Notre Dante Bookstore 
Thursday, April 26, 1979-page 4 

Record flood waters strike North, South 
(AP)-Residents of the Red River Valley waited nervously behind miles of spongy dikes shored up by 4 million sand­bags yesterday, while a record deluge in Florida flushed out poisonous snakes, washed through posh resorts and flood­ed homes and highways. 
"Catfish are swimming down Andrews Avenue," exclaimed Bob Jones of Fort Lauderdale after a spring rainstorm sud­denly ended a three-month Florida drought, the worst since 1971. 
It was the heaviest rainfall in Miami's history, with the Na­tional Weather Service report­ing a 24-hour total of 16.39 inches. Fort Lauderdale report­ed 14.32 inches and Homestead 
10.77 with the rain still falling. 
Police in Plantation, west of Fort Lauderdale, warned par-
STEREOLPS SERIES898 




$5.99 

ents to keep children indoors and out of the way of snakes routed from their hideaways. Two snakebites were reponed; but it was not known if the 
snakes were poisonous. 
"People don't realize that second to Texas, Florida has more rattlesnakes than any other part of the country,'' said Patrolman Vance Currin. 
On the brighter side, the Pearl River at Columbia, Miss., while still about 9 feet above flood stage, continued . to drop and some of the town's 4,000 residents who had fled were able to return to their homes. 
"But I'm afraid all they will find when they get home will be mud and snakes," said Jim Thornhill, Civil Defense direc­tor for the county. ''I'm sure a lot of people will just sit down and cry." 
In the flat and sprawling Red 

River Valley shared by nonhero 
Minnesota and North Dakota, 
flood waters at record depths 
have spread as far as 15 miles 
wide and 2 5 miles long in some 
areas, covering 425,000 acres in 
North Dakota and 274,000 acres 
in Minnesota. Entire commun­
ities are isolated, including 
3,000 people marooned on The 
Point section of East Grand 
Forks, Minn. 
The Point is a spit of land 

wh~re stand 1,000 homes, a gas 
station, a grocery store and a 
liquor store at the confluence of 
the Red Lake River and the Red 
River. The last overland route 
to the outside world was shut 
off at noon when Route 220 
eroded away. Two bridges 
were closed earlier. 
''What we have over there is 

what they're ~oing to have to 
get along w1th,'' Gunderson 
said. 
With 1 ,400 people already driven from their homes and 270 houses flooded, the Red River was running at 48,94 feet, almost 21 feet above flood stage. It was not expected to cre_~t until today or tomorrow. 
B & B Storage 
Special Half Price group rate for Notre Dame/S~1 C Students 

US 31 North lowest rates in 
~tichiana 


call : 684-1125 683-8833 
J 

:······························· 
~ The Designers at 

cos1mo's 
Rose, Connie, and Sally~: 
.

can be trusted .
.
.
. 
to design your hair to ' fit your personal need. 
please call for an appt. 
277-1875 18461 st. rd.23 

.
--···............................... 
~--------------------------------~-------------------------------~ ---­


Editorials 
Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 5 
P.O. Box Q 
air of a different kind was
Sister Mary calls spewing forth from the lips of Ms. Angela Davis, who spoke Sunday afternoon at Notre
ND students great Dame's Washington Hall. 
After her long and somewhat meandering speech, in which Dear Editor, she described her revolutionary communist approach to domes­In my four years living on tic affairs, the floor was opened campus while doing all sorts of to questions. A young ladyparish work in Niles, Michigan, asked Davis, who has recentlythere have been many happen­returned from a·trip to Moscow,.ings to keep me remembering how she could reconcile her' 
how great Notre Dame students condempation of the United are. There was always help 
States for r.olitical oppressionfrom Stanford Hall when the (i.e. the Wtlmington Ten case)blue Pontiac wouldn't start, and while at the same time enthl,l­when it needed to be plowed siastically endorsing the Sovietfrom under the snow. When system, which is not worldthe walks were icy, someone renowned for its politicalalways came to make sure that I tolerance.
made it to my destination. One One can have sympathy forday l fell on the walk outside Davis' predicament here. In­the law building. It took two deed, it is hard to imagine howgreat gentlemen to get me up one could begin to defend theon my feet. 
Soviet Union's record on human

The names--some I remem­
ber; some have slipped my rights. Davis keeps trying, memory; some I didn't even however. She explained that get. Americans are merely condi­
l really enjoyed being asked tioned by the news media to to be a linebacker in the think bad things about the "Cotton Bowl" game in the peaceloving leadership of the 
snow on the front lawn of the USSR. Furthermore, she adds, Health Care Center. The offer no one mentions the fact that to be a rector in a boy's dorm there is no unemployment, or was really enticing. Every time that housing, food, and medi:­a frisbee came my way m the cine are inexpensive in this parking lot, even though it was socialist Worker's Paradise. not caught, it was a delight. 
If we take her response atAll the encounters with stu­face value, we could say that dents at the srotto and every­

same things about Nazi

where around added a special Germany, which she rightfully"something" ro each day. 
condemns. Why are the NazisGreat joy was often felt in the condemned?-because they were happiness given by students, evil and they killed 6 millionwho gave of themselves to ] ews. Conservative estimatesresidents in nursing homes, report 20 million citizens of theschools, and various other cen­Worker's Paradise were killed ters. You all played music of by the regime between the your own kind, showing care years 1925-1940, inclusive.

and concern. You are missed Logically then, we should con­when you are no longer there. 
demn the Soviet Union far moreTruly, you are great persons than Nazi Germany. 

who have added much to my Unfortunately, people who"being me." 
think like Davis are not inclined 

With deepest respect, 
to think logically, as suchregard, and gratitude being thinking tends to destroy theirshown in prayer, ideology. Those who gave Davis such an ovation Sunday

Sister Mary Edmund, C. 5. C. 
afternoon would do well to keep that in mind. · P.S. Some years ago, a high school sophomore said to me, "Sister, you wouldn't J.mder­

Gregory S. Folley
stand, for there weren't any 
teenagers when you were grow­
Ing up." Right then, 1 knew how I got old so fast! (My years ~nesburyas a Holy Cross sister number 
56, most of which were spent teaching up and down the 
GOV~ ~5'/M8tl.IO 

eastern coast.) 
Davis' ideology illogical hot air 
Dear Editor, 
It was quite exciting to see mayor candidate Bill Richardson's hot air balloon floating over the skies of Michiana Sunday evening. Hot 



Journalists get heads exam.ined 
Art Buchwald 

WASHINGTON-The one had great faith in White, Where am I? Oh, yes. What Supreme Court, voting 6-3, mainly because as a college is my state of mind at this ruled last week that public All-American he had played moment? It isn't bad consider­figur~s s_uing for. libel .m~y football with a helmet. ing the latest thrat to a free 
inqutre tnto a JOurnahst s I am now thinking anything press. I certainly bear no "state of mind," and the Justice Rehnquist ~les does!i't malice toward anyone on the editorial P.rocess behind the surprise me. I don t even hke court. As a matter of fact, it's • 
allegedly hbelous statement. In his haircut. amazing how not one malicious other words, from now on a 
Obviously I would never say thought has gone through my reporter will n_ot only be r~­
these things about the most head during the past hour. 
sponsible for what appears m distinguished members of the Maybe it's because ifI had any print or on the airwaves but also 
bench in this land, but since bad thoughts I would be sued. 
for what he was thinking at the their ruling I have to tell the Now I'm thinking there is a time. ; 
truth about exactly what is on mole in the Supreme Coun who I naturally will go along with my mind or face a contempt is leaking all the court's deci­
the law of the land. As a matter 
citation. sions to the media. It must be of fact I might as well start I am now thinking about driving the justices up the wall. practicing now by reveali!lg having a chocolate souffle for Maybe that's why all the First 
what my thought~ are as I wnte lunch. The thought just came Amendment decisions are this arttcle. to me as I wrote that last going against us. The FBI will My first thought is that as far sentence. If this decision is for have to bug every reponer's as the press is concerned the real, and obviously it is, why telephone to find out who the score of this .Supreme Court should I try to lose weight? The mole is. The Feds. can now do opinion should read, ''Chilling fact that most Americans will this without a warrant. The Effect 6, First· Amendment 0.'' probably agree with the deci­Supreme Court came down with Now I am thinking if I can get sion depresses me more than this decision on the same daythis piece finished by 12:30 I the Supreme Court ruling itself. they ruled they could go into 
can get a good lunch and a -nice I just had another thought. our minds. I wonder ifthis was bottle ofwine. I wonder if I can ] ustices Brenna, Marshall and a· coincidence or planned?find some lady to join me? Stewart have the best legal I must be getting paranoid. 
My thoughts have just gone minds on the court and are Either that or I'm staning to back to the Supreme Court. I great Americans. If my daugh­think too much. am thinking that Byron White ter gets appointed to the Su­was the I worst appointment preme Court, I hope she will 
(c) 1979, Los Angeles Times
] ohn F. /Kennedy ever made use the three of them as her while he was President. Every-role models. Syndicate. 


by Garry Trudeau 
VIKTIIAJ.LY NOBOOY HASN'T 
WJI/ ltiiWf 70
HENIJ 7Hirr YOU IJRJVE. AN 
HIIQ£7HIIT
0/.0 PLYMOUTH, LIVE IN A 
O'tE, /...vD4?
SMALL APA/l:T'MENT, LIKE 



administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board 
The news is reported as. accurat~ly ~nd as objectively as poss1ble. Edu~nals Editor-in-chief .......Rosem~ry Mills Features Editor ....... Chris Stewart represent the opin1on of a majoqtr of Managing Editor ...... Diane Wilson Photo Editor ........ Doug Christian 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentanes, Editorial Editor .......... Ann Gales opinions and letters are the ~iews ~f Senior Copy Editor: ..... K. _Connel!y 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space 1s avail­Executive News Ed1tor ....M1ke Lew1s Business Manager .....Steve Odland newspaper published by studems of able to all members of the community, News Editor ............ Mark Rust Production Manager .... Tim Sullivan the Umversity of Notre Dame and and the free expression of varyin_g News Editor .......... .Mike Shields Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, IS Saint Mary's Editor ..... Ellen Buddy Advertising Manager ......Bob Rudy necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. · Sports Editor ...........Mark Perry Controller ........... John Tucker 

_The Observer_ 
... 

Features Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 6  
Mythology with a new twist:Amphytrion '79 Amphytnon '79, an original jazz-rock musical comedy written by Notre Dame-Saint Mary's professor Dr. Miles Coiner, opens this weekend at O'Laughlin auditorium on the St. Mary's campus. Playwright-director Coiner says that the plot of Amphytrion '79 is loosely based on the Greek mythology con­cerning the hard-nosed General Am­phytrion and what happened when the god of gods, ] upiter, took a fancy to Amphytrion's wife, Sodine. Coiner emphasizes the word "loosely," ex­plaming that although the original story was a part of Greek mythology, the play is set in post-Civil War America. Amphytrion ts a retired Civil War general, and the daughter of ] up iter and Sodine (the awesome Hercules in the Greek version of the story) is a Miss Herculea, a nationally renowned speaker for the· woman's suffrage movement. The escapades of these characters are overseen by a cotillion of gods and ~oddesses who, bored with their own tmmortality, have turned to watching the events on earth for their source of entertainment. Their commentary on what they see happening to the mortals is spattered with a series of jazzy song and dance numbers, written by Coiner, Patrick Fanning, and Richard Prezioso, and choreographed by Deborah Sedore. Coiner's version of the Amphytrion legend is fast-moving and imaginative. Three separate plots--the Jupirer­Sodine romance, the suf(ragette struggle, and the Mt. Olympus obser­vation-commentaty-song-and-dance routine--move along simultaneously. The set, designed by-David Weber, and the costumes, designed by Diana Hawfield, help to emphasize the diversity of the show. Weber's set is a series of multi-leveled platforms which clearly define the acting areas for each segment of the show, and Hawfield 's costumes are careful reproductions of the different periods involved--the 1860s, the 1890s, and 500 B.C. All h.Y aspects of the production combine to present a colorful and unique even­Theresa Rebecktng's worth of entertainment. Amphytrion '79 will be presented on Friday and Saturday, April 27 and 28, at 8 p.m., and again on May 3, 4, and 5, at the same time. Tickets are $2. 50 for adults and $2.00 for students. For reservations, call 284-4176. The Ghost ofW ashin'gton Hall Phil Hicks The following story is the final part everything; he was very smart. He the experience, except Brother We had a accumulated weight which of a three-part series. 'had a long cigarette holder and curly Maurilius, who went to bed early and was calculated to wake the dead. It hair. Anyhow, Stevenson sat and got up early and ran the pie store was decided to give Maurilius the 

] ohn came in and I said, "Well, it's all over, won't happen anymore. It only happens once, ] ohn." They were terror stricken, having been in the dark band room and the horn having blasted. They had heard it simultaneously, broke, ran immediately, ar1d came crashing mto our rooms. Others in the Hall heard it too, but it didn't evoke the same kind of reaction from us, because we were used to it. 
During these days we derived a great deal of enjoyment out of watch­mg the remaining doubters being converted one by one. So Father Burns, the President of the University, had a secretary by the name of Harry Stevenson. And Stevenson was inclin­ed to be what Davis calls a "non­believer,'' because he had never heard the horn, didn't think there was nay such thing, and laughing his head off thinking we were worried about it. But this particular night Stevenson came into Casasanta's room and he knew 
--~-----~----~~­
listened to the cuisine one night and after soaking up the story of the horn, he got up and··· ,·m down the corridor, beyond Casas au; a s room on that same floor, to the john. Then, while we were all sitting in Casasanta's room, the horn blew! But the horn had become so commonplace that the people who lived in the Ha!l didn't think anything about it. (It's like a squeaking door.) But we heard a piercing scream, so we rushed down the hall and Stevenson was stretched out in hysterics, on the floor outside· of the bathroom. We picked him up and he cried, "Oh, God! My ears!" We had an awful time getting him straightened out. He was going up to see Father Burns the next day (about Holy Water): "I'm going to talk to Father Burns about this!" 
But there was one person still incredulous to the fact that the horn was blowing. We got fed up with the fact that everybody, tncluding Mangan, stevenson, and all the other passengers, had become convinced of around the corner. "Have you heard the horn, Brother?" "No, and I don't want to hear the horn. I have been here for five years and I haven't heard any scratch of a pin or anything else about it! There's no horn. You people don't hear anything.. I wish you wouldii' t drink so much coffee." He made us all out to be kind of goofy. 
So one night Hayes decided we had to get Mauri! ius into· the family, one 
I way or another. And this is the only feature about the whole thing that was faked. This was the climax, the third act. We couldn't depend on the ghost; he wouldn't cooperate. So we had to do it our own way. We knew you had to make it good in order to convert Maurilius, so we even rehearsed it. Now Buckley's room is directly up over Maurilius' room and Buckley had a double deck bed. (I'll ever forget it). So we conspired to go to the gymna­sium and come back with iron dumb­bells, then bring them up to Buckely' s room and put them up on the top bed. 


----------------------. 
noise first, to wake him up, then the horn. Casasanta, down below, would get his coronet all keyed up, to be on target to blow the note at the right time. So one the allotted night, everything was all set. Maurilius was in bed-we could hear him snoring. 
So Buckley rolled his dumbbells off the top of the bunk one at a rime, and they hit the floor like a roll of thundr. Why they didn't go through I've never known. Then after the "boom, boom, boom" on top of him, Casasanta blew the coronet; Maurilius rushed out into the hall with his nightgown up above his knees, running around, "Mr. Casasanta! Mr. Corona! There's been an earthquake! I heard the horn. Oh, Lord God!" We had to practically run him down. He didn't know where to go. Of course, we told Maurilius that this has been going on all the time. But, "No-o-o," he said. "It's the Devzl! This is ... oh, this has to be 
[continued on page 7] 


The Observer -Features Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 7 
I 'BUU.ROARING AND YOU: 
A MANIFESTO 
This was prepared by the Notre Dame Ad Hoc An Tostal • 'Back to Bullroaring'' Committee 
(The "NDAHA TBTBC"; pronounced ''cszikszentmikahalyi'' 
HUH! 
Along with the ''Pop'' Farley award one of Notre Dame's most hallowed traditions is the annual An Tostal festival which celebrates the seasonal 
,passage rites of spring. With th~­f.:tmented demise of exculpatory streaking, masked mummery, and the initiatory rites of the greased pi~, there is a veritable hiatus, or cosmic rupture in the sacred dance of life, which has retarded the authentic storied flow of licensed chaos. ln Indo-European terms rhis means that the sacrec rites of "going berserk'' have been unduly mollified (recalling always the root serkr or the donning of a "bear shirt"--especially by the circump•,Jar peoples still practising the Easter pattern of beat ceremonialisttl and scarifice). To remedy this situation, and in the interests of seeking a proper religious revalor· izatiof! bf Kratophonic experience and behavtorI a group of value-laden Notre Dame men and women have proposed, with vigor, the inauguration of the fesrive and sacral rites of ~ tlllroating (or in Australian Aranda terminology, tjuringa or &huringa). · 
WHY? 
Now the obvious question immed­iately and abruptly issues forth--to wit: 
"Why to bullroar at Nntre Dame" or, even more pointedly, "What is bull­roaring and why has this issue never surfaced in a collegiate seminar?" Appropriate and probing questions. But fortunatelY. answers designed to sway and tinllate the masses are forthcoming. , 
As to "What is a bullroar(ing)," i.e. its sacramental thingness, and how it is crafted and used see the accomr,any­ing simple directions entitled ' Bull· roaring for Fun and Profit" (excerpted from the Australian edition of Mechanix lllustrated). It should be notC"d, howevt:r, that these directions fail It> mention rhat a bullroarer whirling-string was traditionally made out of either rwisted human or opossum hair. As for tlie seemingly 
[continued from page 6] 
handled. Oh! No! No! No! I'm not 
going to bed. I'm going to the 
chapel!'' Immediately we all had 
absolution from this and that. 
The nexr morning he bounced over to rhe Provincial's office. The Provin­cial was Father Charles O'Donnell, who had a sense of humor, but, of courst' couldn't laugh the Brother otf. Maurilius insisted that O'Donnell come over and make an inspection. And I think O'Donnell promised him a thorough investigation. But Mauri­lius, at that point, was so convinced taht the mar11festation was occult and diabolical that he didn't believe in wasting any time looking for knotholes in the wall. He felt, "Let's get this thing our of here." 
I remember coming down the steps to go out to class and I ran into them. And Mauritius was so excited, telling Farlwr O'Donnell, "Now here is where I heard this and this is where this hap1wned and thi.\· is where the door slammed." He was giving him the business. "0'Donnell, a very sophis­ticated fellow, nodded, you know. I got the impression that he was just doing Mauritius a great favor by going along, being credulous. O'Donnell looked at me and kind of winked as much to say, ''What ha~e you been doing this old man?'' 
I thought that that was going to be the end of it. At that time it never occurred to me that an exorcism was what was called for. I didn't know what was called for. But I think that 



'Bullroaring'­
.'j. •.· 

Bill Rivard 
ittitiatiot'is per&rmed under the sign of th7 Suyreme Beings· of the sky" and thts* ' lS ·. yet another ftoof of the archaism of this form 0 initiation." Moreover, "in the Australian circum· cision ceremonies the bull-roarer sig­nifies the presence of t~e superhuman 
> 

Being who performs the operation. And since circumcision is equivalent to a mystical death, the novice is believed to be killed by the Superhuman Being." 
HOWi YOU AND IT 
•2) de<:orate your bullroarer with .. traQitional designs (exnmples provided .iri irtstruc~ons) or in a creative frenz)' 
ci?me u,r witp you own. perso~~l and hennettc destgn symbohsm (pnzes for h¢st designed bullroarer) ....­
. 3) practice twi~ling a,nd sounding' 
. tei:hp.tqu~s--espectally wtth. regard . to the trtfirute sacred sout'id-puch varta­tions possible. Meditate on Jts muJm~Jike significa(lce. (Prizes for best ,sounding bullroarer) 
4) attend the gigantic bullroaring communal ritual event (the ·'bigevenf') at4:00 in the afternoon on An tostal · Fridy, April 27th on the 
.· quadrangle opyosite the .Bookstore ... (wear clothes). A shamantc master· ·· ·· c~lebraot and facilitator (The 
"Witd:tetty Grub Man'') will orches­tr~tte the collective bull roaring rituals. For those deigning not t<;~ bullr?ar, it is suggested. that they bnng mtscellan­
\. eous mobile noise devices (whistles, tamborines, 8 lb. bells, piccolos, etc.). 
HUH! 

Finally remember that while bull­
man. roaring fells neither the turkey of the In culture history there He many dove; hairy is the fur of the monkey ossibJe ritual dramas of limin;! lity' ana and cold ts the cry of the moon. indec-d several current An Tostal THINK: BACK TO BUllROARlNG! 
somebody came over there with a hyssop one day. I was told by certain members of the Holy Cross Commu­nity that Maurilius insisted that they bring over Holy Water and that they exorcise the whole piace. Now I didn't see it personally, but whether it was true or false, we never heard the horn again after the Maurilius experience. That was all. The ghost of Washington Hall disappeared. 
The whole thing hadn't gone over any length of time at alL The horn started blowing, say, in November of 1919 until April or May the next year. So it went on for, I would say, six months. And there was nothing after that at all. But it was still kind of a joke around campus. 
What I explained to you tonight was generally known and understood all over campus. Back in those days we told it to everybody. It was the succet>ding generation, that would get the reverberation and the echo of the story, that gave it all these magnifica­tions. I'm surprised that there was anybody like Charlie Davis on the campus who wouldn't have known 
· everything that we knew about it. We told them exactly what happened, but the temptation, undoubtedly, to make a good story was too strong to resist on the pan of a lot of people. Davis' ''Stevenson'' episode is authentic. But the part about Charles' assumption of the responsibility for it is, of course, a fabrication. He couldn't have done that because the horn blew at midnight and Charles lived over at Sorin Hall or something. 
HL1. HE LQ?
E LQ.. L .. IS 11 1ERE
I n
AUv't\A IE 
,, J l_)f '4 
t')
11 IERE r' 


I n . 
It just doesn't add up. Davis wa~ never there unless he ·walked over to 

eaves taht might cause this noise. But that they never found. The only person in the Hall who actually blew the horn was Joe Casasanta, the night that we got Maurilius out of bed the one time. There was no other fakery about anything. 
It was just an unexplained pheno­menon. The things that they attri­buted to it later, all these ghostly apparitions, that had absolutely nothing to do with it. I never saw anything; I just heard. There were no bats seen by any of the witnesses, no bird ever seen, no floating horse ever seen. Buckley was right there next to me and he never had any other conception of the ghost other than what I told you. And there was never a horse involved. , 
I'm not ready to say that we all thought it was some sort of a spiritual or other kind of exotic manifestation. We felt it must be a door, it must be something, something logical that could account for it and the consis­tency ofits sound. But we 'Could never explain the door slamming and the walking up the stairs, because I had lain in bed and listened. The door would sl~, but the door was always locked. I didn't know what was causing it, but I never aqributed it to the Devil or the spirit of George Gipp 
visit, maybe come 'into Washington or that steeplejack or any of those Hall to play in something. I know that things. But then when you heard the he didn't have anything piped through horn itself, there was no way to the wall, because the first thing connect it with anything except that O'Donnell did was to have the janitors sustained, clear note. They were just and plumbers go over and see if there occurrences that we heard, as real as was something blowing through the anything. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer 


An Tostal Carnival features rides, gam.es 
will operate all games at the carnival. In the/ast, individual dormitories ha been respon­sible for their operation. Games offered in this year's carnival include a baseball toss, ping pong pitch, and a glas pitch. 
Concessions will be provided by the students. 
Callahan explained that the An Tostal committee will re­ceive a percentage of the Carni­val's profits, and expressed complete satisfaction with the new _J?r9moter's operatiol'!s so far thts year. 
• • . OFSC 
[continued from page 1] 

ing to Velasquez. . 
Commll i.e member Ttm 
Beatty, one of the students first 
contacted by the union, ex­
plained earlier that he and 
others were immediately at­
tracted to the Ohio migrant 
issues :" "rt issue of injustice 
close to home. 

"People usually don't think 
of the Third World as connected 
with our own country. We 
would like to remind people 
that the Third World is here, 
too. The migrant workers are 
members of i~.'' Beatty said 
when the "t-f, dum was first 
being planned. 

Cesar Chavez, famous for his 
organization of farmworkers in 
California, has expressed his 
support for the boycott a,d the 
efforts in Ohio. Chavez will be 
speaking at Notre Dame on 
Monday, April 30, and is ex­
pected to comment on the Ohio 
situation. 

Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 8 
Fan support has been fantastic so far for the Bookstore tournament. Yesterday, these 
supporters braved the inclement weather to cheer their teams to a victory.  (Photo by Gate  
Maginnis].  '  
While camps pounded  



Egypt, Israel fortnalize treaty 

~---------------~ 

I BULLA SHED l
I 5:15 mass and supper F:W I I ili~khl~ ~II I
I and every friday-CCJ11)£1.US • 
\ m1n1a..ry I 

~--~------------~ 

create your own future 
) 
Communicators, 
CALL TOLL FREE 800-424-3737 
Fr. Leslie M. Sieg, C.S.P. Office of Vocations The Paulists 
-3015 Fourth Street, N.E., Room 9E Washington, D.C. 20017 
-
(AJ=l)--Israel and Egypt form­alized th~ir peace treaty yester­day deep in the Sinai Deser~. In southern Lebanon, Israeli Jets, missile boats and bo1der artil­lery pounded Palestinian camps, the Palestine Liberation Organization said. 
In Urn Khashiba, outside an American surveillance station, bands played after th<; ~x­chan~e of documents rattfymg the htstoric peace treaty. I 
A word was missing from ,an Egyptian side letter to lhe treaty and a delay of sev~ral hours resuted but the docu­

ment was a~ended and the , In Tel Aviv, Israel's military ceremony went on. Flags of/ comma~"!-~ said Palestinian ~or­
both countries and the United' States were hoisted and thi: three anthems blared out intO the desert. ; 
In Cairo, Israel Defense Min­ister Ezer Wei. 1an said the PLO should "stop shooting and 
start talking." He later clar­ified that he was not suggesting face-to-face talks. The PLO rejected such talks. 1 
At the United Nations in New York, Lebanon charged 'Israel with obstructing the return of Lebanese authoriry to th¢ south and asked for a Securiry Council meeting on "the grave situ­ation.'' 
Lebanese Ambassador Ghassan Tueni did not mention recent Israeli raids on Lebanon in asking for the meeting._ !3ut he said that while his request dealt only with the issue of Lebanese authority, that ''does not preclude discussion of other matters.'" 
The PLO said Israeli war planes raided Palestinian strongholds and three ref\lgee camps near Lebanon's southern port city of Tyre, 50 miles from Beirut after Israel had .poured naval missiles and artillery fire on the area. 

The "Voice of Lebanon" radio station of Lebanon's right wing Phalange Party put yes­terday's casualty toll at 47 dead and 80 wounded. The Palestinians said 10 people were killed and 40 wounded. 
The PLO said most of the casualties were in refugee camps around Tyre and in the guerrilla-controlled town of Nabatiyeh, 30 miles inland. 
der posltlons fired rockets mto northern Israel yesterday and injured three Israelis•. knocked 
~own some power lmes and destroy~d crops. . . In Betrut, Israe!J Jets buzzed Yasser Arafat's PLO head­
St. Mary's talent show­kicks off '79 An Tostal 
by Pam Degnan StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's kicked off An Tostal festivities with ''An Eve­nin~ for the Children", a vartety benefit show last night in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Approximately 300 people  at­ 
tended the charity benefit.  An  
estimated  net  profit  will  be  

donated ·to the Saint ] ude's Children Hospital. 
The show featured f.llent ftom both campuses which included ''A Sleazy Bus Sta­

r Fo~'s, 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS JEWELERS SINCE 1917 Town & Country and Concord Mall, alsq University Park Mall 1 0-9 Blaqkmond 's, daily, 9:30-5 Special15% Discount On 

quarters four times and drew heavy anti-aircraft fire. There was panic in the streets as the jets shook the capital but they did not fire. 
The PLO said the Israeli flyover prompted Syrian jets to make a 75-minute patrol over Beirut as a warning to Israel. 

It was the first time the Syrian air force flew missions over Lebanon since Syrian troops halted the nation's civil war 29 months ago and sta­tioned troops here to police a ceasefire between the,. M9slems, the Palestinian allies and rightwing Christians. 
Israel's four-day campaign is its longest and most intensive since it invaded southern Lebanon in March 1978. It later withdrew and left part of the area in control of U.N. peace­keepers and the rest wtth its ally in the south. rebel , Lebanese army Maj. Haddad. I 
' tion,'' a creative comedy writ ten by ] ake Morrissey anc Colleen Cannon and the fina performance of the "Toe Tap mg Trio.'' A dance solo performed h~ Debra Sedore of the Speech and Drama Department and a gym nastics routine by Eileen Quinn and Roberta DePiero highlight ed the program. The benefit also marked the debut of "Northern Comfort," a country rock band. Other activities in the program included a freshman comical take-off on the song, "Leader of the Pack,'' a jazz piano solo performed by Mike Franken and the "Regina Hall Band­stand Boogie." ''The show went beautifully-­it was a great success. Every­one was warmly received,'' commented Adn Trigiani. "Hopefully this benefit will be an annual r,art of the An Tostal festivities. ' 
Buy Classifieds from 

The Observer 

·---~ •-·---· "" --·•-•• ---.. ----.-•·-•.,•• ,,_. -• • •·---••••• -•· ••-·--·• •"---· u_, • _,... ~-• •-,._"' _.. ..-.. -------...--··----··-• --..... ­
The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 9 



World record Dodgeball 
Come out for the world record-brea~ng Dodgeba.ll game! Be at SMC at 5:30 today. For more mto, call Alvm or Ace at 234-1720. 

Frisbee toss 
F~is~ee toss, Friday at 1:30 on the South Quad. The contest wtll mvolve both dtstarice and accuracy. 

Mattress runaround 
Come one, come all to the mattress race on Frivolous Friday! Five-member teams including virile young men and vivacious young women will participate. No preregistration is necessary, just be in front of Dillon at 1 pm. 

Serf Sale 
Volunteer for the Serf Sale to be held on Friday by calling Mary, 288-1270, Patty, 234-1735, Jay, 8732, or Chns, 6645. 

Face shaving contest 
Face Shaving on Friday--All you little shavers, let's get creamed. Show up at South Quad at 2 pm. 

Recess 101 
Play like you used to at Recess 101 on Friday night. Come over to Stepan Center at 8 pm for finger paintmg and ice cream eating contests as well as other juvenile activtties! For more info, call that juvenile expert, Paulette Evans at 1253. 

Human Backgammon 
Come and watch Backgammon played with human {>ieces!At five o'clock today, JUSt east of McCandless at SMC, two obscure ND-SMC celebrities will manipulate their peers to the home territories. Be sure to witness this histone event. 

Keg.Toss 
> 

An Tostal Keg Toss: Annual event to determine the champion of campus. Guys toss 1lz keg, girls lf.l keg. Be at the flagpole on South Quad Friday at 1:30.f 

Looking for Mr. Goodbar 
Clue #4: "He's never slept here." 
Women athletes give buffet 
On Mondal April 30, the Department o Women's Athle­tics will hold its Women's Sports Award Night at the Monogram Room of the ACC. A dessert buffet will bqin at 6:30p.m. The awarda 1 yam will begin immediately~ 4 the 

0-bud needs ballot boxes 
Ombudsman Elections Committee has loaned some of its ballot boxes to organizations on campus. If your dub has borrowed a box and has not_yet returned it, please drop it off in the OBUD office, second floor LaFortune, by noon Saturday, April 28, or contact J ana Schutt (6924). 
1 
i ' 
buffet, at app~oximately 7:00 
p.m. 
Included in the evening's highlights will be guest speaker Patsy Neal. The topic of her speech will be "Excellence in Athletics ... What is it?" 
The evening is being spon-, sored for all women's sports ­varsity, club, and interest groups -and all athletes are requested to see their hall representatives for their tick­ets. The Awards Night is also open to the public at a cost of $2.50 per person. All interest­ed persons should contact one of the following hall representa­tives for tickets: 
Badin -Patti DeCooste Breen-Phillips -Tracy Blake Farley -Jane Ahern Lewis -Donna Carini Lyons -Beth LaRocca Walsh -Sue McGinn 


MIA, POW families claim Carter insensitive to plight 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Fami­lies of American servicemen who never returned from the Vietnam War are accusing President Carter of breaking his promise to seek the fullest possible accounting of U.S. prisoners of war and missing in action. 
These families say the ad­ministration is more interested in improving relations with Vietnam than in pressi~g for information on the men official­ly presumed to be dead. 
"The problem is there hasn't been any effective U.S. govern­ment effort to get the account­ing that we've been promised all these years,'' said Ann Griffiths, executive director of the National League of Families of Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia. 
''And that is not due particu­larly to any lack of capability by the military," she satd. "It's a political problem.'' 
The plight of families of American POWs and MIAs resurfaced with Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood's return last month from Vietnam after 13 11z years. 
Before Garwood's return, 
U.S. officials had assured POW and MIA families therewereno Americans remaining alive in the former war zone. Garwood was captured by the Viet Cong in August 1965 and officially listed by the Defense Depart­ment as a prisoner of war. But on his return to the United States, he was charged with desertion. 
The POW-MIA league says Carter promised the United States would not extend dit>lo­matic recognition to the Hanoi government, lift the trade em­bargo or allow Vietnam into the United Nations until the prison­ers and missing had been accounted for as fully as pos­sible. 
"Of course there's been a total change," said Ms. Grif­fiths. "President Carter re­versed his policy and we were all geared to go ahead and normalize relations, when Viet­nam invaded Cambodia and China invaded Vietnam. 
"So, now everything is at a total stalemate and stagnat­ing," she said. · 
Meantime, Vietnam has been admitted to the United Nations without U.S. objection. 
The government lists about 1, 150 of the unaccounted as known dead whose bodies were not recovered. Another 1,350 or so men once were listed either as missing or prisoners, but were not among the 533 American POWs whom the communists released in 1973. 
A special House panel and a presidential task force conclud­ed none of the missing was alive and recommended they be presumed dead -a judgment being made for each mdividual by special military boards. 
Ms. Griffiths says Carter "even went so far as to say he would not allow presumptive findings of death to be made in these cases until he was person­ally convinced that every man had been accounted for as accurately as possible. 
Dreyer elected 

OOME names editors 
byJana Schutt 
The DOME, Notre Dame's yearbook, · has announced its editorial board for the 1979-80 school year. 
According to AI Dreyer, newly-elected editor, the 

Rhodesian elections 
conclude peacefully 
SALISBURY• Rhodesia (AP) ­To Rhodesia's whites and moderate black leaders, the election was an historic event. To the guerrilla leaders and the 
U.S. and British governments it was a sham. The truth is somewhere in between. 
For the 230,000 whites in a country with some 7 million blacks, last week's five-day poll signalled the end to 90 years of white domination in black Africa. 
For Bishop Abel Muzorewa, who will be Rhodesia's first black prime minister, and other 
Austrian :consul speaks tonight 
Dr. Erich Kristen, consul general of the Austrian govern­ment in Chicago, will speak at 8 
p.m. tonight 10 the Memorial Library Auditorium. Both the talk and a reception to follow in Room 331 of O'Shaughness Hall are open to the public. 
Sponsored by the Depart­ment of Modern and Classical Lanpuages and the German Clu,-, (Delta Phi Alpha), the topic of his talk is "Austria Today: Economic and Political 
"Aspects.'' 
moderate blacks, the election 
meant blacks gained by peace­
ful means what the guerrillas 
have been fighting for since 
1972. 
For most Western govern­
ments, the United States in­
cluded, the election process 
was a slick maneuver by whites 
to remain in power, behind a 
facade of black token politi­
cians. Black nationalist 
guerrillas Robert Mugabe and 
) oshua Nkomo felt the same 
way. 
The voting was generally 
described as free and fair as is 
possible under wartime condi­
tions by about 60 unofficial 
observers from the United 
Stat'es, Britain, Australia and 
several European cpuntries. 
In the rural areas, where 
many blacks live, observers and · journalists saw situations whjch suggested coercion by both 
government and guerrillas. 
Blacks were truckd ro polling 
stations ~y employers in some 
areas. In-others, blacks stayed 
away f~om votiQg because of 
intimidation by the guerrillas. 
But in urban areas of the 
country, where neither the 
government nor the guerrillas 
have much influence, ' blacks 
turned out in large numbers to 
vote, for the first time ever, and 
many said they were votin~ for 
peace rather than a .;mgle 
candidate. 

"He told us this in February of 1977, and in August of 1977 he agreed to a Department of Defense recommendation to go ahead and declare the remain­ing POWs and MIAs presump­tively dead, in spite of the fact that to date, after six years, we have a total of 75 remains that have been returned. 
''That's hardly what anyone, even totally uninformed, would consider the fullest possible accounting that could be ob­tained," says Ms. Griffiths, whose brother, Navy Lt. Cmdr. Jim Mills, has been unaccount­ed for since his jet plane was shot down in 1966. 
All but 127 of the men once listed as prisoners or missing have been declared presumed dead. Special military boards make the declarations on a case-by-case basis after review­ing all available evidence. 
The families and the services say the problems involved in a final accounting include getting identification teams into Viet­nam, locating graves or crash sites and identifying remains. 
The families say declaring the men as presumptively dead • is unfair. They say the govern­ment is citing as sufficient evidence the mere passage of time without a sign that a man is alive. 
editorial board has been ex­
panded in the interests of 
producing a better product for 
the ND community. 
Dreyer hopes to change the formate of the r.earbook to a more magazine-hke style which would actually tell a story of the academic and social year. 
''Although this will be a departure From past yearbooks, -I feel this change will present a more accurate picture of life at Notre Dame," Dreyer said. ''With our well-experienced board, we should be able to supply ND with its best book ever.'' 
Those appointed to the board' are Joyce Ravnikar, managing editor; Linda Kenney, produc­tion manager; Chuck Allen, business manger; Jana Schutt, events editor; Bilf Elliott and Anne Lorenz, sports co-editors; Jim Ingolia and · Nancy Naughton, seniors' co-editors; Meg Klin~enberger, organi­zations' editor; and Mary Beth Sterling, culture editor. 
Tech Review selects editor 
Debbie Bieber, a junior from Westchester, IL, has been named as the new editor for Tee~ Reyiew, ~ publication of engmeenng maJors. 
Bieber is now taking applica­tions for the 1979-80 staff. Available positions include financial manager, publicity_ manager, office manager, staff reporters and more. 
All interested . should call 6826 or dro~ a note in the Tech Review matlbox in the En~in­eering Office. Applications should be submitted by Thurs­day. Applicants do not have to be engineering majors to qual­ify. 


:»ti·i 
~ 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 10 
• • . Cullather, 
[continued from page 12] 
scored when Culllather was in the Irish net, which is en­couraging, but does not make him over-confident. 
"I am pleased with what I'm doing right now, but I know there is a lot of room for improvement in my game," he pom~s out ho~estly. "Rich is helpmg me 10 that respect, which is a large reason why he's such a great coach--he gets the maximum effort out of all his p!ayers." 
Cullather relates how he started this spring season on a sour note. 
"I just wasn't playing well-­in fact I was playing terrible, and Rich and the team knew it. So Rich stopped talking to me, knowing that would really make me mad, which it did. But it also motivated me to play better and I started playing up to my potential.'' 
Which means stopping tough shots, helping other players and serving as a team leader. What it boils down to is that Brian Cullatherwillhave to play to his potential if the Notre Dame soccer team is to play to theirs. Neither Cullather nor Hunter is worried. 
"We know we can count on 
Brian to be there when he's 
needed," says Hunter. "He 
knows what his job is and how 
important it is to the team that 
he does his job.'' 

And, assures Cullather, he has every intention of doing his job as well as he can both on and off the field. A junior in the college of business administration, he will graduate with a degree in accounting, but, like so many ambitious students, he's not sure if he wants to spend the rest ofhis life as an accountant. 
"!would like to try out with an American Soccer League team," he reveals. "Just to see ifI could play pro soccer. I do a/ lot of umpiring in baseball leagues during the summer and I am going to an instructional league in Florida this summer to give that a try." 
Cullather, who also serves as a disc jockey on WSND-AM, says that there is a lot he wants to try before he settles down into a lifelong vocation. But the business at hand right now is Notre Dame soccer as he and his teammates prepare for this weekend's square-off with the Crusaders of Valparaiso, set for 
2 p.m. Saturday at Cartier 
Field. 

"This will be Valpo's first 
varsity game,'' points out 
Hunter, "and we expect them 
to be as excited as we were 
before our first varsity game. 
They have some great players 
and they are well-coached so I 
expect them to give us some 
good competition." 

' And what if the C~sader 
goaltender ask~ Brian _Cullather 
for some age-wtse advtce on the 
all-important task of stopping­
the ball before it goes into the 
net? / "Sure, I'll help him--after the 
game, of course," Cullather 
laughs. ''The best thing I could 
tell him is just to keep his head 
in the game at all times." 
Good advice ... especially if 
that's all he can use to stop a 
shot. 
Irish goalie, Brian Cui/ather 
.. Netters
• 

The Daily Crossword 


Molarity 

I GOT SO DESPARATE I c.JW w£NT INW STF:.PAN 


Campus Press Girl wanted to take /fill orders and do other office work for '79 -'80 year. 
Paid position. Needed 1-5 on mwf or tt 
Call office at 7047 by Monday April 30. 



4/26/79 10 Mil. man svelte 

Michael Molinelli 


-
Applications Now Available at Stud. Govt. Offices for 
Traffic Appeals Board 1979-1980 ­
all undergraduate eligible 



All applications due 4/30 
Any question or suggestion Jim O'Hare, Judicial Coordinator 6413 or 1694 
46 "The Pick­11 Effortless-

wick-" ness 47 Objective 14 Month 48 Chinese 15 "-Fideles" 
island 18 Periods of 49 Bowman time 52 Fully con-20 -Carlo 
vinced 23 Scary yell 53 Plunder 24 Foundation 56 Ottomans 25 Lady's robe 58 Toolfor of old 

smoothing 26 Proverb 59 Dilettan­Z1 Hardhearted tish 28 Not expert 60 Sudden 29 Saltpeter outburst 30 Metal 61 Taking a refuse cruise 32 Peer 62 Whiskey or 36 Rulersof 
bread Scotland 63 Writer and England Ambler ~Gladden 
64 Quaker's 40 Fourscore pronoun 43 -and downs 46 Performs 
DOWN 46 Deep space 1 Converse measure 2 Riverto 48 Many: comb. 
theOuse form 3 Risky 49 Remotely 4 Japanese 50 Mr. Calhoun 
outcast 51 Shedfor 5 Kindofsaw pigeons 6 Callforth 52 Risehigh 7 -out (give 54 Butterine 
sparingly) 56 Suitor 8 Whitneyor 57 Unclose, Wallach poetically 9 Before long 58 Farfrom 
[continued from page 12] 
Notre Dame within a point of victory, but Ann Daniels' hard fought three set win over Paddy Mullen kept the SMC hopes alive. 
Those hopes were quickly dashed when the doubles com­petition began, however. Walsh and Legeay easily dis­posed of Daniels and O'Brien 6-0; 6-1, to clinch the Irish victory. It was, however, the last one Notre Dame would enjoy. The Belles number one doubles team Smith and Cinqy Schuster overcame a tough first set to beat Barton and Stephan 7-5;6-0 and in the evemng's most exciting match Bracken and Lindsey Reihl outlasted Sheila and Laura Cronin in a three set marathon 4-6; 6-2; 7-6. The SMC duo had to come back from a 5-0 third set deficit 
to force the tiebreaker,  which  
they eventually won 5-3­ 
For  Notre  Dame  a  tough  

weekend is in store as the 1-1 Irish prepare to t~ke on De­Pauw on Friday afternoon, and Indiana State on Sarurday. Saint Mary's, 0-1, will use the weekend to practice (weather permitting) for their Monday afternoon match with Hope College. That match will be played at the SMC courts. 
." .Teams 
[continued from page 12] 
over OFF, 21-17. Knafelc 
scored on ten of 16 spots, while 
Holohan hit on eight of 16. 
Mikf' Murphy tallied five in a 
balanced OFF attack. 
Ten baskets and 16 rebounds 
by Bill Laimbeer helped contri­
bute to a Pope John Paul I win 
over Stevie Wonder and the 
Deadeyes, 21-14. Kris Haines 
added four, while John Hahn 
hit on seven of 12 for the losers. 
P.F. and the Flyers scored a 21-14 win over-Kamakaze Zep­tards, as Jeff Hannapel scored eight and Paul Flood added seven for the winners. Willy Fessler made seven baskets and grabbed eight rebounds for the Zeptards. 
Later W.E.B. had the biggest margin of the day, as they downed the Pit Crew i 1-9. Jim Dolezal scored eight and Kevin Dix hit on five shots for W.E.B., while Chip Bollard 

paced the Crew with five points. 
ACROSS 1 Hatteras or 
May 5 Yieldby treaty 9 Soul: Fr. 12 AI with a 
trumpet 13 Convex molding 15 Loop, in 
anatomy 16 District 17 German 
shepherds 19 Gumshoe 20 Wallace or 
Douglas 21 Thirty, in Vichy 22 Have-to pick 
24 Anacondas 25 Island skirt Z1 Hack's 
hangout 31 Blockhead 32 Gaelic 33 Asian VIP 34 Former 
Chinese ·chairman 
35 Candidate for knight­hood 
38 From-Z 39 Feverand chills 41 Calendar abbr. 42 Stringed 
instruments 44 Leftover 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 


.. :-. ~ 
S~ortsbriefs 
Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 11 
Judo Club returns w-ith trophies 

The Notre Dame Judo Club 
traveled to Chicago to partic­
ipate in the Irving Park Judo 
Invitational. The club had a 
successful tournament, bring­
ing three trophies back to Notre 
Dame. 

Jim Lincer, Debbie Bieber, and Rick Dapena won first, second, and thtrd place trophies respectively; in the Men's light­wetght, white belt division, the Women's light-weight, white­green belt division, and the Men's heavy-weight, brown belt division. 
In addition, Mark Kuma­vanish and Brian W oufle tied for fourth in the Men's light­weight, white bt':t division. This was the club's first tourn­ament, after a semester of work outs under Dapena, the club's instructor and coach. · 
The club, an outgrowth of the free university Judo course, has been in serious training for this tournament for the last three weeks. The five member team left South Bend Saturday after­noon for Chicago, in order to practice with the South Sub­
. urban Judo Club at the Gov­ernor's State YMCA. The South Suburban Judo Club, an established club, worked out with the Notre Dame Club for two and one half hours prior to the tournament as a favor to Woulfe, a member of both clubs. 
Woulfe, the judo club pres­ident, was pleased wuh the results of the tournament. "We went primarily for the experience, to let the new club members get a taste of com­petition. We had hoped to bring eight people tp the tourn­ament, but a few club members were either sick or hurt. Once we got to Irving Park, we realized that we were as good as any of the other clubs, and we became really excited about our chances. We all fought at separate times, so we were able to cheer and coach each other on. Afterthc awards were given out we were all walking on air.'' 


Club members are asked t6 contact any of the officers about the remaining schedule of act­ivities for the semester. 
Regina wins SMC football 
Regina Hall won Saint Mary's interhall flag football cham­pionship by defeating LeMans 6-0 in a tough contest on Tuesday. The game's lone touchdown came in the first seconds of play when Regina'sJoanie Glockner ran back the opening kick-off. Bill Griffin and Tim Holroyd, Regina's coaches, will lead the team as they face Badin on Saturday in the annual ND-SMC chamr.ion­ship game. The contest wtll be held behind Stepan Center, beginning at 2:30p.m. 
I I 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 



Bookstore basketball action continued yesterday with the ~u~ber of. team: remaining in the tourney dropping to the Eltte Etght. [photo by Cate Maginnis]. 
. .. _upset ofSharon Petro's netters.
Cullather leadS soccerlrtsh squad' Co~~e~g~~n~~rN~~~r~~m~~ 
as goalte 'Wtth leadership, skills 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wn'ter 
When you s.top and think about it, soCf···. 1s a nretty simple gamt; tu understand. 
Really. 
All you have to know is that there are two reams t~at run up and down an over-sized football field trying to kid,.. a black and white ball toto the other team's goal. The team that doe~ that tht> most wins the game. 
· it could be easier.... to watch, that is? Playing, of 
.::.-=, takes a lot more skill-­especially the part about kick­ing the ball into the goal. You see, each team ~ets to put a goaltender right m fro.nt of its net to keep tht> b..1 II out. He uses his hands, feet. even his head to stop the ball and that makes things a little tougher for someone trying to score. 
Especially when that goal tender happens to be Brian Cullather. Notre Dame's net­minder since soc.cer became a varsity sport in 1977, Cullather deserves as much credit as anyone for the 38-4-2 record compiled by the Irish kickers in the last two years. 
Just ask his coach. • 
"Brian has a good attitude and the team respects him as the leader that he is," com­ments Rich Hunter. "He has great hands, he's very aggres­sive · and, consequently, he stops a lot of balls for us. He has an innate sense of the game and he thinks in the net.'' 
All ofwhich is evident during a recent intrasquad scrimmage where Culla~her is _in ~oal ~nd Notre Dame s top hne 1s trymg to score on him. Jim Sabitus picks up the ball at mid-field· 
and hits Kevin Lovejoy, who is 
speeding down the right wing. 
Cullather comes out, cuts down 
the angle, leaving Lovejoy no 
choice but to drop the pall back 
to Sabitus who cuts in, fakes 
Cullather, and kicks the ball 
toward ~he only open part of the 
net. But it's not open for long 
as Cullather dives across the 
goal mouth and robs Sabitus of 
an otherwise sure point. It was 
not the first good stop that· 
Cullather came up with that 
afternoon, nor was it to be the 
last. After practice, Sabitus 
talks about hts teammate and 
good friend. 

''Brian is definitely the best 
goaltender I've played with 
either at Notre Dame or in high 
school," he admits. "He is 
talented, confident and he plays 
with super intensity. He's 
always in the game, mentally, 
and that is perhaps the most 
important attribute of a good 
goalie." 

Cullather, who start,.iJ r.hy­ing soccer as a fifth grader '1 Rochester, NY, has atw.. ­been a goaltender both because he likes the position and, as he jokingly puts it, "my skills at rr>irlfielrl leave a little to be 
desired.'' So, when his family moved to Michigan City, IN during his freshman year in high school, Cullather quickly found a clo.Jb soccer team and, for whatever reason, wound up back in goal. He could have gone to St. Bonaventure, a school that features a well­developed soccer program, but he opted for Notre Dame be­cause it was ''close to home and the academics were much bet­
ter," · But there wasn't much of a soccer team. In fact, when 
Thursday, April 26, 1979 -page 12 
fu Bookstore classic 

T earns battle to 'Elite Eight' 
bv Mark Perrv also came from behind to win 
Sports Editor 22-20. Terry Aselage added 
six, while Randy Harrison 
A large crowd, including scored eight and Jamie Halpin Father Hesburgh, turned out tallied five in a losing cause. behind the Bookstore yester­Top-seeded Butchers contin­day, as sixteen teams battled it ued their winning ways, defeat­out for the honor of advancing ing Peace, Love, Justice, 21-B, to the ''Elite Eight'' in this in a hard-fought contest. Bruce year's Iron Man basketball Flowers was seven for thirteen tournament. for the game and also grabbed 
All the tournament favorites 21 rebounds. The Butchers also advanced to the quarterfinal got five points from Kevin Hart rounds, but not without a fight. and Tom F eifer. Joe Congeni As Bookstore Commissioner was outstanding for PLJ, hitt­Leo Latz put it, ''There are a lot ing on eight of 15 shots, many of ~ood teams this year, " 
making this year's tournament one of the most exciting ever. 
Two overtime battles high­lighted the competition, as 

ND -SMC netters feud,Larry's Laundrymen and Dags both came from behind to edge 
Irish women triumph 5 -4 
their opponents. 

The Laundrymen trailed the E Street Band, 20-16, but by Mark Hannuksela outscored the Band 7-1 down Sports Wn'ter the stretch to take a hard­fought 23-21 win. Bob Ken­Last October 16, the Notre nedy and Larry Chum tied for Dame and Saint Mary's high scoring honors with six women's tennis teams met at pomts each, and teammate Jim the SMC courts. The Irish went Kelly added five. Tom Lange into the match as the newly and Ian Gray had five a piece crowned Small College State for the E Streeters. · Champs. The Belles went into 
Tim McQuiston's 11 for 18 the match a fourth place fin­shooting pe:-furmance was the isher in the state, and driven by driving force for the Dags, who the natural rivalry between the 
two schools. That drive was enough to carry SMC to a 5-4 
Cullather w~~ ~ frt>shman, the 
sport was sttH at tht: club level 
at Notre Darr. ' Jr daims he 
found out about its existence 
"totally by accident." 
''I was walking over to Stefan Center to play basket­hal and I saw some kids playing soccer," he recalls. "I went over and checked it out and that's how I started to play soccer at Notre Dame. I began as a back-up goalie and I learned a great deal from regulars John Kirby and Mark 
Kltne. '' 
He learned enou~h to be­
come Coach Hunter s number 
one netminder last season, 
leading the Irish to a 21-3-1 
record. It was good, but not 
good enough, according to 
Cullather, who says the team is 
looking for an NCAA playoff bid 
next season. 
"We have a super rough schedule next year including fndiana, Loyola (Baltimore) and Wisconsin (Milwaukee)," re­veals the man who will face a lot of well-kicked soccer balls be­tween now and· then. "If we come away with the kind of record we've had the past two seasons, there is just no way_ they can· ignore us for a playoff 
If this spring is any indicator ..1 future soccer success, next year just may be the year Notre Dame has yet another entry in NCAA post-season competi­
tton. With one game behind them, Notre Dame's spring record stands at 1-0, courtesy of an 8-2 win over Purdue. Neither Boilermaker goal was 
[crmti11•ed o• page 10) 

rivalry was renewed. The 
:::c~a:~o~:l~as;~;:~::ra:!: 
tot. Petro's women gained temporary revenge over Kathy Cordes' team on the strength of four singles victories. The revenge ts temporary because the two teams must meet once more, on Thursday, May 17, before the regional tournament is held Memorial Day weekend. 
"Tonight's win was a good one for us,'' stated a somewhat elated Petro after the match, ''but some of this has to stop,'' (referring to a lack of concen­
tration on the part of some of 
driving into the Butchers' phys­ical front line. 
Rusty Lisch's seven for 14 performance helped lead Chumps to a 21-16 win over John Gacy's Home. Notre Dame assistant basketball coach Tom McLaughlin added six points for the winners, and Mark Larson pumped in eight of 13 for the home. 
Greg Knafelc and Pete. Holo­han scored eighteen of Strappa­masquon 's points in their win 
(continued on page 10) 
her players). 
Cordes said essentially the same thing after the match, but her reasoning was different. "It's awful tough to play out­doors after J?laying indoors all winter. Losmg tonight has to help us though, because I think that maybe the girls were getting a bit too over-confident, on the basis of their play this winter. We should be ready for them the next time around.'' 
In last night's match, Notre Dame appeared to hold a commanding lead after the singles competition, yet had to sweat through the doubles before they were ensured the victory. In the evening's first 
completed match, ND1 s Tina Stephan defeated Carmel Maenza of SMC 6-4; 6-0. Petro's freshmen sensations Mary Legeay and Peggy Walsh 
were the next two winners. 
Legeay downed Terri Bracken 

6-1; 6-4, while Walsh topped \ 
Mo O'Brien 6-4; 6-4. Saint Mary's then gained their first point when Karen Smith took tdentical 6-3 sets from Jean Barton. Mary Shukis' win at number one singles brought 

Notre Dame's "*mber o11e si11gles player, Mary Sh•~is, led the Irish womn to '!.. J-4 wi~t over Sai11t Mary's yesterda~. (photo b~ C4te .Magi11•is[. 












