. Anton Chroust · ND hero, p. 9 


VOL. Xll, NO. 80 / an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, FEBUARY 9, 1979 
Students plan boycott; aid migrant workers 
constant doubt about working
by Brian McFeeters 
conditions. Over 2000 workers in three counties of Ohio are plan­
Over 50 students met last night ning to strike during thisin the La Fortune ballroom ·to summer's harvesting season, and begin planning a campus-wide are organizing the boycott to seeboycott of all Nestle's, Libby's if they can obtain equal negotiat­and Campbell's food products. 
ionstatus, ex-migrant workerThe meeting, planned by Villa said.
CADENA, a campus organization The boycott is the key to theconcerned with Third World workers' success, Villa said,problems, included an explanat­since the strike involves such aIon of Ohio migrant farm work­small area. With public pres­ers' problems and preliminary sure, the workers and supporters plans for the boycott, which is hope to persuade the corporat­
designe~ to force thes~ canni~g 
ions to negotiate. Villa asked for corporations to negonate wtth student support of a boycott onfarm workers. 
campus, and student help inNestle's the parent company of publicizing the boycott thisLibby's, and Campbell Foods are summer.
the owners of all canning facilit­The students attending theies in Ohio and throughout the meeting divided into committeesMidwest, according to the Farm to plan publicity, gather infor­Labor Organizing Committee mation on both the corporations(FLOC) coordinator Olga Villa, and workers, talk to the Notrewho spoke to the group. 
Dame administration about theThese corporations set whole­boycott, find
sale prices for tomatoes at the and out what 
Nestle's and Campbell'sbeginning of the summer season, products are now bought by thebut are unwilling to negotiate Umvers1ty.
with the workers whose wages a petition will be circulated independ on those pre-set prices, an attempt to put a specialshe explained. 
referendum allowing ND-SMCThe migrant worker is pro­students to endorse a campus­tected by no laws and is in 
wide boycott of all Nestle and Campbell's products on the ballot in next month's Student Body President elections. Eight

Egypt accepts 
hundred signatures are required 
Mardi Gras festivities begin today and these two students and friend have already captured the 
to place the referendum on the 
mood [photo by Tracy jane McAuliffe]
ballot. This is independant of
talks invitation another planned referendum to 
boycott Nestle products because of infant formula sales in Latin America.
at Camp David Mardis Gras opens tonight
Tim Beaty, CADENA member (AP)-Egypt accepted an Amer-and organizer of last night's 
by]ohn Calcutt and technical aspects of construction this year, butican invitation yesterday to take meeting, said, "People usually Executive Editor the halls have done a great job on style and part in ministerial-level peace don't think of the Third World as artwork." 
talks aimed at breaking the connected with our own country. Notre Dame's Thirty-frrst annual Mardi Gras Last night, many of the booths were far from 
deadlock with Israel. We would like to remind people celebration will open tonight at 6 p.m. in Stepan finished, but Swintal said, "It's like this everyIsrael is also expected to agree that the Third World is here, too. Center. 
year, with the big last minute rush. But everyone 
to attend the talks, which probab-The mi~rant workers are mem­"Once Upon A Classic" has been chosen as the will put a lot of hours in to have the booths readyly will be at Camp David, Md., bers of lt." theme for this year's winter carnival, and for the opening at 6 p.m.''later this month. He stressed that the organizat-Co-director Bob Morin stated that the 1979 Mardi Grace Hall and Lewis Hall, however, finished 
The likely partici.lJants are ion ''does not want to start a hate Gras will be more of a social event than ever their construction early. "Their Dante's Inferno Egyptian Foreign Miruster Mus-campaign,'' but chose the issue before. 
has to be recognized as one of the more 
tafa Khalil, Israeli Foreign Minis-to educate students and create "With a special hat night on Monday, a $200 outstanding booths of this year's carnival," ter Moshe Dayan and Secretary concern. Bonanza night on Tuesday, and a 'Screw Your Swintal said. ot State Cyrus R. Vance. Mary Holland and a member of Roomate' Dance on Wednesday, we think that 
Swintal added, "Other booths which are exC!E· 
Egyptian Presiden~ ~n":'ar CADENA explained that support Mardi Gras will be a great ~lace to come with your ionally well done include the Holy Cross ~NU)Sadat accepted the mv1tat1on of the boycott is one aim of the friends or to meet people,' Morin commented. 
Mark Twain Steamboat, the Alumni-LeMans P.IJ'3te 
delivered in Cairo by U.S. Am-group but that, "we're mainly In addition to the special nights, Ken. Kraft, Ship, and the Morrissey-Holy Cross (SMq Street 
bassador Hermann Eilts. The after education of people on entertainment director, stated that a variety of Scene.'· Israeli Cabinet met to consider campus. When they go home vocal artists and groups will perform each evening. Mike Bilski, Mardi Gras business manager, said the invitation, but put off a this summer, they should know "Hi~hlighting the week will be an Irish band, that $14,000 in raffle proceeds have been collected decision until its regular meeting something about the migrant "Wruths and Strays,'' that will perform on so far and that the sale will continue throughout the Sunday. issue." Saturday, Feb. 17. But we'll also have the Glee week. Rosemary Serbent, a member of the Mardi 
Israeli officials said Dayan When asked it the boycott would Club on Thrusday, a magic show on Friday, and a Gras committee, added, "The raffle is always the almost certainly would attend the only help other corporations with variety of campus talent throughout the week,'' biggest money-maker, and we're doing pretty well talks. Eilts said the date and the same unfair labor practives, Kraft said. so far.'' place of the meeting will not be Holland srud, ''We have no way Kraft added that a photographer will also be This year, a $50 prize will be awarded to the disclosed until Israel announces of knowing, but we can't allow present each evening to give gamblers the student who sells the most raffle ticket books. .And whether it will attend. ourselves to be neutralized by opportunity to don western clothing and imitate the drom with the highest sales percentage will 
President Hafez Assad of Syr-that. The goal of the boycott is Mart Dillon for the camera. receive $100. Presendy, Farley leads in sales with ia, who opposes the. E~tian-ls-not so much volume as Besides the traditional poker, black jack, and 42 percent, and Keenan and Augusta are tied for raeli peace talks, srud 10 Damas-publicity." hi-lo, the 1979 Mardi Gras will offer gamblers second with 37 percent. cus the issue should be handled ''Corporations are very wor-several other games of chance. The Mardi The winner of the raffle will be awarded a 1979 by the United Nations instead. ried about their publie image. A Gras Committee's Storybook booth will give Oldsmobile Cudass Supreme, and the winner of 
Eilts told reporters yesterday Notre DAme statement in sup­visitors the opportunity to play backgammon the Seller's drawin~ will receive a 1979 olds he could not predict whether a port of the migrant workers' betting games and other carnival games. And the Starfrre SX The drawmg will be held at midnight on ministeral meeting at Camp boycott would be noticed,'' she Morrissey-Holy Cross (SMq Street Scene from Feb. 17. David could lead to another added. Pygmalion booth will offer white mice and gerbil Chris Policinski, head of admissions, stated that summit of the tytx: held by Villa described the present help­races. dealers will be admitted only on nights whep theyPresident Carter, Sadat and Is-lessness of the migrants: "They Jim Swintal, head architect, commencing on the are dealing for their hall or orgnaization, which is a raeli Prime Minister Menachem . are protected by no laws, and booths at this year's Mardi Gras, said, "There change in policy from previous years. Begin there last fall. [continued on page 4] seems to be less of an emphasis on the structures 
[continued on page 14] 

_________________. 

-
I , 
.... 


News in brief 
Carter Administration reduces aid to Nicaragua 
WASHINGTON (AP)--The Carter administratit>n, stung by Nicaragua's rejection of U.S.-supported mediation efforts, announced Thursday a drastic reduction in economic aid to the utin American country and a trimming of the U.S. embassy '-staff by one-half. All 21 Peace Cores volunteers will be withdrawn and no new assistance until President Anastasio Somoza indicates a change in policy, State Department spokesman Hodding Carter said. Despite the strons action against the Somoza government, however, the administration stopped short of a complete break with Nicaragua. Mauricio Solaun, the U.S. ambassador, will remain at his post. Aid programs "which are well advanced" will continue, Carter said. 
Senate committee confirms Woodcock as ambassallor 
WASHINGTON (AP)--The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 12-1 Thursday for confirmation of Leonard Woodcock as the first U.S. ambassador to China since 1949. Despite the vote, committee members said Woodcock's nomination will become entangled in a Senate floor battle over the future security of Taiwan. The sole vote against appointment ofthe former United Auto Workers union president was cast by Sen. ] esse Helms, R-N.C., a vocal opJ?<>nent of President Carter'~ new China policy. Helms said his w/te against Woodcock had nothing to do with the CJ.ualifications of the former UAW chief. Instead, the senator satd, it was intended to reflect his opposition to Carter's decision to drop recognition of Taiwan while simultaneously extending it to Peking. , 
Des Moines Planet falters under superpressure 
' 
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP)--Thepublisher of the Des Moines Daily Planet sayi he will not be bullied by the owner of another Daily Planet and can manage without any help from Superman. Publisher Larry Vmt, whose Daily Planet distributes 25,000 free copies daily and will mark its second anniversary l.n June, has been asked by D.C. Comics Inc. to give up his publication's 
name. "Wharever success we've been having has nothing to do with the Superman story or movie," Vint satd. 
But Michael Davis, an attorney for the Warner Communica­?ons Inc. subsidiary which owns the Superman trademark, said m a letter that the ftrm may go to court if the name is nl.)t 
dropped. . 
Weather 
Becoming partly cloudy and cold today with highs 5-10 above. Mosdy cloudy and-very cold tonight. Lows 5-10 below. A chance of light snow Saturday with highs 5-10 above. Cold Sunday with a slow warming trend and a chance of snow Monday and Tuesday. Lows 0-10 above Sunday. Moderating to 10-20 by Tuesday. Highs rnosrl~ in the 20s Sunday, warming to the upper 20s and 30s Tuesday. 

Camg==us==·=== 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1979 
5:15pm--MASS AND-DINNER, at the BULLA SHED 
6 pm --MARDI GRAS, SIBPAN CENIER 
7 pm --PEP RAlLY, ACC PIT 
7 pm --FilM "the great stars," liBRARY AUD., sponsored by the chinese assoc. 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1979 
2 pm --MARDI GRAS, STEPAN CENTER 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 11 ,.1979 
1 pm --BASKETBAlL, nd vs. ucla, ACC 
2 pm --MASS, sponsored by friends l'arche, for handicapped and friends, MOREAU SEMINARY 
4 pm --MARDI GRAS, SIBPAN CENIBR 
7 pm --MEEI1NG, bicycle club, LAFORWNE BASEMENT 

• • • Iranians 
[continued from page 3] Most commanders are believed loyal to the Bakhtiar government, which was appointed by Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavt before he left Iran ] an. 16 for an indefmite stay abroad. But some analysts say the military is un­sure of the loyalty of the lower ranks and believes it cannot impose its will on Khomeini's broadbased and powerful oppo­sition movement. Khomeini's forces claim the allegiance of up to half the nation's 430,000 man armed forces, but Bakhtiar insisted yes­terday there had been no signifi­cant defections. There have been reJ?,orts of pro-Khomeini hunger strikes and demonstrations at some air bases. Khorneini's supporters say pilots at the Bandar-e-Abass base on the Persian Gulf have declared a week of mourning for the demonstrators killed in rear­long, anti-Shah violence. Washington says it has been in touch with the Khorneini camp to find out its position on vanous issues. The Carter Administra­tin's support for Bakhtiar has become lukewarm in recent pub­lic statements. Asked at a news conference 
r--The Observer_ Night &:lz'tor: Margie Brassil Asst. Night Editor: Pam Degnan, Beth Huffman Copy Reader: Phil Cackley, Kathy Connelly Layout Staff: Ann Monaghan, Lynn Tyler, Rod Beard Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges Features lAyout: Tom Behney Sports La~vout: Rav O'Brien Typists: )Mardi Nevin, Mark· Perry, Mary Campbell, Paula Vernon, lisa DiValerio, Pete McFadden Early Morning Typist: Rosie Day Editor: Keith Melaragno Ad Layout: Sue Johnston, Chris Slatt Photographer: Tracy Jane McAuli.fft~  
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for· S20 per year IS10 per semester! from The Observer. P.O. box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, In­diana 46551i. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

·i Valentines i * Day ,j* 
~ Wed. Feb. 14th 

!personal I 
•········•~: , ....• ! for your sweetie I!~ 
: Only : 
: * special greeting section in the * ~•• 5 •• : OBSERVER : ,• • :write message here, pay at the observer office~
: Days :
• • * *
* *
: left : *·---------------------------* 
• • * ---------------------------· * 
*

: to : * ---------------------------· * 
• • * *
*---------------------------·* 
: Screw : * *
*----------------------------* 
I

• • * * 
: Your : *·--------------------------~* 
• • * *·------------------------~-* * 

:* ' -------·:
_____________,__ * 
:Roommate:
• * . . * 
yesterday about wavering Ameri~ can support, Bakhtiar broke into English to say, "I don't know. You can ask President Carter. Not me." 
Reverting to French, he added, "if the American government its assistance, so much the better. If it doesn't so what?" 
Bakhtiar also was asked about vows by Khomeini's forces to operate government ministries with employees now on strike against Bakhtiar. 
''As long as this is talk, there's no problem. But if they take action, I will resist,'' the prime minister said. 
Khomeini's civilian supporters have already taken over some government functions in Isfahan, Com. Qom, Shiraz and other cities. 
Bakhtiar challenged Khomeini to form a legitimate political parry with a clear program. "It's a different thing from /utting people on the streets an giving them slogans they don't even understand... he prefers the streets. He prefers the rnob." 
He said he would submit to the outcome ofa national referendum conducted by his opponents in "calm and democracy," not with ''~renades and Molotov cock­tatls." 
He told reporters he might call national elections in five or six 
********************************** 
* *
: put in a c!JO~ : 
* v * 
months, but that "in the presen conditions, it would be unpos sible to hold them." In an interview with the Paris news paper Le Montie published yes terday, he conceded that if elections were held immediateldy "nine out of 10 Iranians woul vote for (Khomeini). " 
Bakhtiar said at the news conference he was willing to resume contacts with Bazargan ''to fmd solutions to the problems of unity." 
Counseling 
to hold workshops 

The Notre Dame Counseling Center will hold two workshops on job interview skills Feb. 12 and 19. The sessions will last from 7 to 9:30 p.m. Emphasis will be placed on the acquisition and practice of skills needed for successful self-presentation in an illterview. 
To register for the workshops or to receive further information students are asked to call the Center at 1717 or to stop in at Room 400 in the Administration Building. 

5:15p.m. Saturday 9:15a.m. Sunday 
10:30 a.m. Sunday 
12:15 p.m. Sunday 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Rev. Richard Zan~, C.S.C. Rev. Marvin R. 0 Connell Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Rev. Marvin R. O'Connell 




The Observer 


l:i::l~===== 327 LincolnW ay West ======*F:II ~====south Bend, Indiana 4660l====:jf


, _______________,\ (BUlLA SHED I 
I 5:15  mass and supper  f':W  I  
I 1  ili~&hl~ · and every fnday­ ~IICaiiJPUSministry  I •  
\  I  

~---------------~ 
Meet Someone New 
at 


THE RAMROD 

* 
dance floor * OJ Buddy King

* 
pool table every Fri ~ Sat night 


511 S. Mich St. (downtown) open till 3am. 
... Boycott 
[continued from page 1] have no guarantees of how much they will be raid, or how many 
days they wil be able to work.'' 
Later she illustrated what she sees as a grossly unjust economic situation: "Right now, the work­er in the field gets less than 25 cents for picking a 33 lb. basket of tomatoes. You and I can buy one can for around :35 cents. Somebody's walking away with a bunch of money.'' 
A Cadena member, Ann Huber, attended a meeting of the Ohio migrant workers in Toledo this January, after hearing of the groups planned boycott. • 
''What struck me wz;; that this is a grass roots movement,'' she said. "These workers just want enough money to live decently. They're just now learning how to organize, and they're trying to keep from being afraid of the huge corporations." 
Huber mentioned that the CADENA was attracted to the issue as a tie-in with the movie "The Grapes of Wrath", which was recently shown on campus. 
The Ohio farmworkers have asked for wage increases from 24 cents per hamper of tomatoes to 35 cents, and from a usual minimumof$2.65 to $3.25. They also want guarantees of at least 28 hours of work every two weeks. and a medical health plan. 
La Raza representative Ricardo Parra explamed that target of these demands is the canner rather than the small farmer or grower who cannot afford to provide insurance for his tempor­ary workers. 
"Who should be paying for the benefits that the farm workers need? The people that benefit most from the whole industry-­the large corporations,'' Parra said. 

KING'S CELLAR WAREHOUSE Lowest Prices in Town ! 
six pack glass 
$189 


Prices 24 loose cans 
good while quantities last ! 

Budweiser in Roseland
12 pack $339 
cans 

Hours: Mon. thru Thurs. 9 am-1 0 pm 
272~2522
Fri. and Sat. 9 am-11 pm 
Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 4 
Benefit raises $1000 
byTim]oyce StaffR'eporter 

The benefit party held for Joe Camarda at Lee's Grill and Barbeque Wednesday nig~t was a huge success, according to employee G;,.\e Lighthall. The event raised $1,000 for Camarda. The money will be used to help pay for some expens~~ incurred during his recent hospttal stay. 
Camarda is the Notre Dame senior who was shot in his home on Corby Street on Dec.11. He is now recuperating in his home in Reston VA · 
The party, was originally sche­duled to take place from 5 p.m. to 12 a.m. but due to the large crowed did not break up until 1 a.m. 
"It went real good--it was a good time for all those who came. 
Those who dido' t come missed out on a good time -and an opportunity to help out Joe," Lighthall commented. 
Lgl:~hall had :-!oth.ing but 
praise for all those who helped 
make his idea a reality. "I want 
to thank all my bartenders, my 
family and the management 

down at Sunnyside Beverages, 
who helped us out a lot,'' he said. 
In addition to beer specials, a 

raffle was held and pnzes were 
awarded all night long, including 
beer mirrors, posters, t-shirts, 
and ashtrays, all donated by the 
~verage companies. 
When the party was over and the receipts were tallied, Light­hall said that he had reached hi his goal. "I said that we were going to raise a thousand dollars for Joe and we did. Speaking of 
Joe, we spoke to him during the 
party and he sends his regards to 
everyone,'' Li&hthall related. 
Lighthall satd that the intra­venous tubes were taken out of Camarda yesterday and he had his first solid meal since the shooting. "I just hope that it wasn't any super hot ribs," Lighthall quipped. 
Chinese execute ex-guards 
HONG KONG [AP]-Four of the Red Guards who helped enforce Maoist ideological purity during China's 1966-69 Cultural Revolu­tion were executed in Peking after being convicted of raping, torturing and killing their vic­tims, Radio Peking reponed. 
A transcript of the Feb. 1 broadcast, received in Hong Kong-on Thursday, said the Jan. 16 tnal was witnessed by 37,000 persons. 
It said the executions took place "immediately" after the trial. It did not say if they were public, but noted: 
''The Peking Municipal Inter­mediate People's Court held a sentencing ·rally in Mentoukou District of the Chinese capital to pass the sentences on Counter-
The method of execution was not reponed. Informed Com­munist Party sources in Hong Kong said executions in China are usually by firing squad. The sources, who asked not to be identified, were in PekingJan. 16 but nor witness the execution. 
"The sentences passed by the municipal people's court on the eight criminals were warmly supported by the masses," said the transcnpt. The C~tural Revolution was launched by the late Chairman Mao Tse-Tung in a drive to cleanse China of "re :­visionist" tendencies imputed to the Soviet Union. 
The Red Guards were an army 

of  teen­ 
agers  who  swept  across  China  
supposedly  carrying  out  the  

orders of a radical clique led by 
revolutionary criminals who · Chiang Ching, Mao's wife. They vigorously engaged the'!lselves ' forced purged senior revolution­in beating, smashing, loottng and aries and top government offi­sabotage activities durin? the cials to parade in public wearing great Cultural Revolution.' dunce caps. 
·~--~-----~-------­
-------~---~---------------~---~ -~-~~ ---~-­
The Observer Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 3 
In Food Services dispute 

Two students protest fines 
Mmm!! This is as good as Mom's cooking!! l):lhoto by Tracy jane McAul#e] · 
Cnuntless Iranians show support for anti -shah regime 
1EHRAN, Iran (AP)-Hundreds of soldiers marched along with a million other Iranians in Tehran yesterday in a show ofsupport for an anti-shah revolutionary ~ov­
errunent. But Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar held his ground, vowing he will . not 
surrender power to a "mob." 
The leader of the ''transitional government'' trying to oust Bakhtiar was quoted as saying Washington has "indirectly" expressed a desire to establish good relationS with a future revolutionary regime. 
Marches here and in other Iranian cities were generally peaceful, but new political vio­lence flared in two provincial towns. 
In Gorgan, on the Capsian Sea, nine persons were reported killed and 26 others wounded when troops opened fire on anti-Bakhtiar protesters setting ftre to banks, shops and other buildings, the state radio said. 
Opposition spokesmen said that in the town of Koi, near the Turkish border, a group of Mullahs, Moslem-preachers, was attacked and badly beaten by a rival faction while in route to an opposition rally. 
State radio said more than one million people took part in the Tehran march in support of Ayatullah Ruhollah Khomeini's designation of a rival goverrunent headed by Moslem nationalist Mehdi Bazargan. 
Khomeini, who returned to Iran last week after leading the anti­shah movement from exile, want the Bakhtiar goverrunent to re­sign, the monarchy to be abolish­ed and a religiously oriented Islamic_ republic to· be estab­lished. The well-disciplines marchers recited in uruson from slogan sheets: "Bazargan, Bazargan, you are our prime minister!'' and "Bakhtiar, Bakhciar, you take 
orders from the U.S.A.!" 
Among them were more Iranian servicemen in uniform than had been seen before in such demonstrations here, rais­ing new questions about the loyalty of lower-ranking troops to the Bakhtiar government. Khomeini spokesmen said bet­ween 2,oo0 and 3,000 soldiers took part. Reporters on the scene counted at least 200 airmen in blue uniforms. 


Demonstrators carried five fatigue-clad soldiers on their shoulders, chancing "The army must obey-Bazargan! '' and toss­ing flowers at them. 
A Tehran newspaper published 
a photo furporung ~o show a throng o uniformed airmen saluting Khomeini outside his headquarters. Bakhtiar called the picture a ''complete fabrication,'' but a Bazargan spokesman insisted it was authentic and said the photo was taken from behind to prevent reprisals against the servicemen. 
The allegiance of the armed forces is expected to be the key to a resolution of Iran's political crisis. [continued on page 2] 
1 
day. 
The food service director said that the incident presents two questions. ''First, there is the case of the .individual students who were fined and second, the question of whether the policy of chargingstudents for the meals 
1
before the official start of the I semester is right or wrong,'' 
I 
Robinson explained. 
He added that he would be willing to discuss the second point m an open forum. 
Flyers and an advertisement in Monday's Observer classified section are attempting to meas­ure student interest in approach­ing the Administration and Food Service program to cancel the fines-on students' accounts. 
by Donald Schmzd 

Two students are protesting fines and charges imposed by the Notre Dame Food Services for receiving allegedly unauthorized meals on Jan. 16 during the registration period, prior to the beginning of the second semes­ter. 
Phil Blower, one of the stu­dents charged, claimed that in the past Food Services has not billed or fmed students $10 on registration days. "As far as I know there is no precedent of ftning students $10 on this viola­tion," he noted. 
According to Blower, a number of students entered the cafeteria lines on Jan. 16, and their cards registered "invalid" through the FOod Services computer checking system 
''The checkers then asked us if we were under a meal contract yet, and we replied 'no.' The checkers then said to ~o ahead and eat," Blower explamed. 
"We feel that when the check­ers allowed us to enter the dining hall for lunch, it was a verbal contract which invalidated the meal contract. It was very deceptive what they did,'' Blower the meru and the fmes has been the normal procedure. 
''The contract is very explicit,'' Robinson noted. He admitted that owing to the fact cards often flash invalid for various reasons and that as a courtesy the checke~s may let the students in. 
"However, I do ·not know of any checker who let in students knowing that they were not under contract. If this is the case, and this is still speculation, I woulcl cancel the $10 fme but not the charge for the meal they ate." Robinson said. 
Robinson added that only those students who did not purchase meal contracts later were ftned and that all others were only charged for the meal they ate that 
stated. 
However, a letter given to off-campus students explaining the terms of the meal contract reads: ''The meal plan available for off-campus students start with lunch on the first day of classes at the beginning of each semester ... based on the official undergraduate academic calen­dar. The first day of classes for the second semester was Wed­nesday Jan. 17. 
Robert Robinson, Notre Dame Food Service Director, commen­ted on the fines charged against the students' accounts. He said that charging students the cost of 
Beamer ·to le~ture tonigpt at 8 
Judge George N. Beamer, Jr., of the St. Joseph County Superior Court, will present a lecture today at 8 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law 13uilding. The lecture, entitled "Everything You Never Cared to Know About Crime", is open to the public. 

Sunday for An Tosto/ Staff Members. See you next week Su.nday, February 18 I 
Youdon't 
have to shop atOUnd. 
lcelaildic 

has the 
best~ 

toF..utoPe. 




$295~ 
tUUndtrip. 
You've heard a lot about fares to Europe, but none of them can com~are with the one you've just found. 
Icelandic s 14-45 day APEX fare from Chicago to Luxembourg is just $295 roundtrip. Tickets must be booked and paid for 30-days in advance. Fare subject to change. No weekend surchar8e. 
You'll get free wme with your dinner, free cognac afterwards and excellent friendly service all the way across the Atlantic. 
We'll take you to Luxembourg, right in the heart of Europe, where you'll be just hours away by train or car from 
almost all of Europe's most famous landmarks. 
Seats are limited, so don't waste any more time hunting.You've already found the best bargain of them all. 
See your travel agent or contact the Puffin nearest you. Or write Dept 1 #C-396, Icelandic Airlines, 18 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL 00603.1 Or caiiB00-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area. 
Please send me more infonnation on:I 0 Low Cost Fares 0 European Tuurs 0 Alpine Ski Tours I NAME __________________________ 
I ADDRESS ________ I 

CITY_______ STATE ______ ZIP ___
I 

I ICELANDIC


I 25 years of low air fares to Europe. I 
~------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 6 

NJJ-SMC Mardi Gras Committee presents 
Special Event Nights 
Monday Feb. 12 Hat Night $25 for the most original hat judging at 11:00pm 
Tuesday Feb. 13 Cash Give Away Bonanza $1/chance 200 chances available $200 drawing at 11:00 pm 

ATHENS, Ga. (AP)--Dean Rusk, reminiscing about his life in politics, recalls the day John F. Kennedy told him the New Frontier would not change what was then a hard-line U.S. policy toward China. · 
So Rusk went back to the State Department and, as he puts it now, ·'played the role of the village tdiot'' whenever he was approached by colleagues about easinR the freeze between 
Washington and Peking. More than a decade later, a Republican president, Richard 
M. Nixon, cracked the ice, and on Jan. 1, Jimmy Carter extended diplomatic recognition. 
• But Rusk, the former Secretary of State who marks his 70th birthday Friday, said in an inter­view that U.S. policy on China could not have been changed by the Democratic Kennedy and Johnson administations in which he served. 
"When I look back over the China question, and the role that has been played by the two major political parties, tt seems to me that the Republicans earned the right to find an answer to the 
-China question,'' Rusk observed. "My guess is that if President Kennedy had gone off to Peking, he would have been lacerated by the Republicans, including Richard Nixon. ''Sometimes there are things that one party can do that another party can't." Rusk recalled reviewing the options on Ch: ina with Kennedy in 1961 when the Democrats took power. ''He had in front of him a nearly unanimous resolution that Congress had passed two or three years earlier, strongly objecting to any change in the Chinese seat at the U.N. and on the matter of recognition,'' Rusk remembered. 
''On the day before the inauguration, President Eisen­hower said to him, 'lwill try to supJ;><>rt you as much as I can on foretgn policy matters, but on one matter I will have to oppose you, strongly and publicly, and that would have to be on a Chinese seat in the U.N.' ''So President Kennedy, who was rather cautious in selecting the items on which he was preP.ared . to do battle, decided he did not. want to open up the question at : 



Rusk reviews US policy change toward China 
all. 

"As I was leaving the office, he 
said, 'What's more, Mr. Secre­
tary, I don't want to read in The 
Washington Post or The New 
York Times that the State Depart­
ment is thinking about a change 
in the China policy'. 

"So I went back to the depart­ment, and when people like Adlai­Stevenson and Chester Bowles and others came to talk about China, I just played the role of the village idiot. 
"I didn't tell them about my talk with the president because we would be reading that in TI1e Washington Post or The New York Times." 
And yet, while Rusk clearly approves of the Nixon and Carter movt;s on China, he is appre­hen~tve about any suggestion of setttng Moscow and Peking against each other. That, he says, would be "kidstuff." 
"I don't, myself, believe that anyone should suppose we can play a childish game of maneuver between the Chinese and the Russians. 
Police determine shooting an accident 
NOR1H UlTLE ROCK,ARK. 
(AP)-Mter ~uestioning a witnss, 
witness, police are leaning to­
ward the theory that the shooting 
of a 21 year old llnited Press 
International reporter· was acci­
dental, Capt. Dale tlruce of the 
North Little Rock Police said 
today. 
Earlier, the police had said 
theY. thought the shooting was 
deljberate, even though they 
had been unable to establish a 
motive. 
Judy Danielak, hired by UPI as 
a temporary employee and 
assigned to cover the Ligislature, 
was found unconscious tn her car 
Tuesday night on Interstate 40. 
Bruce, who is captain of the 
detective division, siad authori~ 
ties had questioned a man who 
said he saw her car run off the 
right side of Interstate 40 as it 
travelled in the right land next to 
the shoulder. 
Officers have said the shot 
came through the passenger's 
side of the car, and they had 
previously speculated that 
another car had come alongside. 
But that would be unlikely if her 
car was near the right shoulder. 
"Possibly, it could have been a stray bullc.-t," Bruce said. 
In addition, Police Sgt. Walter Miles said the woman normally took another road home. She chose the interstate Tuesday night because it was snowins and she thoug,ht it would be eas1er to drive, Miles said. 
Bruce was asked if he believed 
the shooting was accidental. 
"That's what we're beginning 
to lean toward now," he said. 
Bruce said a bullet fragment removed from Mrs. Damelak's brain appeared to be lead, indica­ting it came from a pistol, not a rifle. 
He said the normal range of a handgun is "60-70 yards less than 100 yads for sure. " He said it was possible the bullet was fired from an access road that parallels the interstate, but no­body reported seeing a car on that road. Next to the access road is an open field.· 
"It was dark and I wouldn't think somebody would be out there hunting at that time," Bruce said. "It's a very odd situation. We don't have any­ring to base anything on.'' 

FDA warns mothers-to-be; alcohol causes defects 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Almost two years after warning pregnant women that drinking mcreases the risk of birth defects, the government said yesterday it will push a national education pro­gram before considering it a re­quirement for warning labels on alcoholic beverages. 
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobac­co and Firearms said it would use warning labels on beer·, wine and liquor bottles as a last resort if the education program fails to arouse the public to the problem. Even though the Food and Drug Administration and others have called for warning labels,
Assistant Treasury Secretary Richard Davis said labels may be premature because the problem 1s not fully understood. 
''Scientific evidence establish­es clearly that the offspring of women who drink heavily during pregnancy could suffer mental and ehysical defects known as the fetal alcohol syndrome," Davis said. 
But he added that scientists disagree on the effects of more moderate drinking or binge drinking. And Davis said no one has determined a safe level of drinking, if such a level exists. 
"And we think there is a value, in this era where people are tired of being told what to do by the government, in a voluntary ef­fort." he said. 
Mt.sstoonar,.1, 
41".-?/}J I C/.t' 
o o
VtSttS cam'hUS
'.t' 
A representative from the Eucharistic Missionaries will be on campus Sunday and Monday at the Volunteer Services office in LaFortune Student Center from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, and on the Memorial Library concourse from 1 to 4 p.m. and 7 to 10 p.m. 

The Observer Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 5 
FRIDAY

Carter drops 
in news poll 


NEW YORK [API-The public's rating of Jimmy Carter's work has sunk almost to the lowest levels of his administration in the wake of the turmoil in Iran and the lack of a pe:ace !?act in the Mideast, a new Assoc1ated Press -NBC news poll shows. 

A significant .Part of the drop for Carter -whic:h totaled eight points since De<:ember -came among Democrats, an important 
...... 

group for him just a year before 
STAEEr 

the start of the 1980 presidential 

DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEtO
primaries. 
Twenty-eight percent of those questioned nationwide Monday and Tuesday said the president is doing a good or excellent job. 
PREPARE FOR: 
That's down from the 36 percent found by the December AP-NBC 
MCAT•DAT •GMAT
News poll. Lower ratings of Carter's work 
PCAT •&RE•OCAT·liT·SAT
came in June 1978, when it was 27 percent and in August, when it was 26 percent. Neither of those 
1MB I.II.III·ECFM&·FLEI·VQE
ratings is significantly different 
from the current finding. 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
SMC establishes new 
Fifty-three percent of the pub­
Flexible Programs & Hours 
lic this month said he is doing 
Visit Our Centers & See For Yourself 
' 'only a fair' ' job. And 17 percent 
Why We Make The Difference

alcohol education panel 
rated his work poor, up from 12 percent in the last poll. Two Maria Frigyesi The investigation of other col­percent of the 1,600 people 
LSAT, GRE GMAT~~~. 
leges and universities who spon­questioned by tellephone in each 
Classes .,..N
sor alcohol awareness programs poll said they were not sure.
In an effort to establish a 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER

has determined that few schools The major sow~ce for the drop 
, • TEST PREPARATION
foundation for an on-going pro­
now form 1ng 
SPeciALISTS SINCE 1938

have such organizations. Further in Carter's rating was foreigngram of alcohol education at research is presently being un­policy, the area where successesSaint Mary's College, The Com­dertaken on this matter to pro­last year gave his standing such amittee on Alcohol Education Pro­
call 291-3150
vide a more accurate gauge of boost.
gram (CAEP) has been formed. 
comparison. Right after the Camp DavidThe committee has formulated Mary Ann Daly is presently summit, Carter's foreign policyfive basic goals for this year's working with Sr. Judith Ann rating soared, with 56 percentprogram under the guidance of Beattie, Director of Voluntary Ser giving him good or excellentMary Ann Daly, McCandless 
Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
vices at Notre Dame, and student ratings in mid-September. 
Hall Director, Richard Leavy of committee members to help es­But as the ''fram~ork forthe Psychology Department and tablish the support group. peace" worked out in the meet­Susan Tamborini, Director of The Corruruttee has been en­ms of Carter, Israeli Prime 
WATCH FOR THE
Regina Hall. 
couraged through the allocation Minister Menachem Begin andThe goals of the organization of funds from the college. "The Egyptian President Anwar Sadat 
HUGHES
as outlined in a letter to Kathleen Administration has given us their came apart, the ]public's estima­Rice, Dean of Student Affairs, full support and cooperation,'' tion of Carter's foreign policy 
RECRUITER VISIDNG
are to assess the needs of Saint Nuovo commented enthusiastic­work dropped.
Mary's community regarding al­
YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
ally. The good or excellent ratingscohol attitudes, .Problems, know­The Committee hopes to edu­dipped to 45 percent in Decem­ledge; to investtgate the alcohol cate the college community about ber. And now, after the develop­programs at other colleges and problem drinking. "There is a ments in Iran and those involving 
Contact your placement oftlce
universities; to provide special­difference between alcoholism, China and Taiwan, only 35 per­ized training for resident hall 
for interview dates.
problem drinking, and just drink­cent give him such marks. 
advisors; to design and publish a mg," Nuovo explained. "Drink­Carter's handling of the de­student handbook to publicize 
r------------------,
ing becomes a problem when it velopments in Iran -including the and educate the Saint Mary's begins to have adverse effects on downfall of the Shah is majorcommunity to our programs and 
! I HUGHES: I 
yourself and others,'' she added. part 9f the reason for the drop. 
I I
referrals; and to initiate a local Interested persons may contact For example, only 19 percent 
~------------------~
support group along the lines of 
c-rin(l•--'tlwith elec~
committee members in the for­of those interviewed ~ave CarterAl-Anon for students dealing mer Campus Ministry Office in excellent or goodl ratmgs for his 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOVER...M /F
with alcohol-related problems. 
McCandless Hall at #4918. handling of the problems in Iran. 
The committee is in the pro­cess of working on several of the goals. Questionnaires will be completed and ready for distribu­tion to a random sample of the 

HAVE A REmEmBER
entire college community within the next couple of weeks. Those polled will include employees, staff, faculty, and the administra­
HEART! THAT SOmEONE SPECIAL 
tion as well as students. ''Because the college commun­ity consists of such a diverse 

'l WITH, A BOOK ON group of people, the questions must be peninent to all members in order to accurately assess the needs," Patty Nuovo, a member of the committee stated. The purpose ofthe questionnaire is to 


VALENTINES DAYII 
assess the needs of the student !x><IY fo~ the group's programm­mg servtces. 
•Wednesday
Pompons 
• Febtuaty 14th
go on sale 
Ftom The
for UCLA 
The Student Union has announced plans to sell pompons as part of the UCLA Bruin 
HAmmES NOTRE DAmE 
weekend. The green and gold pompons will be sold for 50 cents at the dining halls, the pep rally 


BOOKSTORE 


• 
• 

-~-----------~--­





Editorials 
Struggle of a People 
Editor's note: This is the second half of the Third World CADENA column on the migrant farmer wo,rkers' struggles. 
The current farmworkers' orgamzing movement in northwestern Ohio is unique because it is working to bring together the three major parties in the industry to negotiate contracts. The demand on the part of the farmworkers for a three-way contract system between farmworkers, growers, and the canneries, if successful, could revolution­ize the attitudes towards farmworkers that prevail today. 
The probl~m. according to Baldemar Velasquez, President of the Farm Labor Organizing Commit­tee (FLOC) that is working with the farmworkers in Ohio, is that, "The canner has the grower under his thumb and the grower has the workers under his thumb.'' He adds, ''We want to change that relationship.'' Under the present system, the cannery companies contract with individual growers before the growing season begins--and when the farmworkers are still in their home states in the south--to pay so much per ton of tomatoes. By the time the migrants arrive, the price the grower can pay the farmworker has already been determined. It is this aspect of the system that the farmworkers and FLOC seek to change. 
Efforts to change the system so far have been unsuccessful. Last summer FLOC mailed letters to 442 Ohio growers and 55 canneries inviting them to meet at a joint negotiating session [n]uly with the farmworkers to discuss contracts. Only 16 growers attend~d and there was no respons•~ at all from the cannenes. 
Last summer's walkout and strike did not have extensive planning, but it was at least in part successful. The Lbby's company in Ohio has sued the farmworkers and FLOC for $1,075,000 in damages incurred when pickets blocked the cannery's gates at a plant in Leipsic. Lbby's estimated the plant lost $75,000 in production costs and added $1,000,000 for punitive d~es. So far no action has been taken in the suit. 1his summer, with the organizing effort behind them farm­workers hope to shut down some canneries with their strike. 
The farmworkers have learned that if they strike only against the grower for a pay raise, they win no long term gains. This was demonstrated in 1968 when farmworkers represented by FLOC went on strike and won 22 contracts. The ca1:ch was that the following year they lost eleven of those contracts 
few people who really think it's worthwhile." 
Otherwise, farmworkers who are most directly 
affected by a labor stoppage are hesitant to strike. 
The FLOC's strategy m helping the farmworkers is to trair · · workers at the FLOC headquarters in Toledo to organize themselves in their homestates in the south. One such training session took place two weeks ago when 62 striking farmworkers from Texas, Florida, and Mexico met with FLOC and United Farm Workers leaders from California to discuss organizing methods. The farmworkers' union in Ohio, when its membership has solidified, will be directed by an all farmworkers. governing board. Eventually union dues will be able to maintain a permanent staff but money will always be tight. In the meantime the permanent staff at FLOC helps to keep the movement alive. In the off-season when the farmworkers are all in the south, FLOC is working to get the canneries and their local unions involved in the strike and boycott. 
According to one farmworker who attended the training session, the organizers' purpose is to persua.de people not to come north if they can afford.Jt, but to tell them, "Ifyou're ~oing to come, make It somewhere else. Not Ohio.' The leaders ~e con~erne~ that their own people might cross ptcket lines if growers offer high wages in an attempt to break the strike. But as one farmworker sai~, "If they (other migrants) aren't going to strike, the only way they can help is to go somewhere else. 
''Somewhere else includes parts of northern Indiana and southern Michigan where the tomato is a prime crop. Although the strike does not now include these areas, the Libby's cannery located in Kokomo, Indiana will be the focus of the strike and boycott effort organized by FLOC support commit­tees. 
The FLOC's efforts to deal with the canneries have encountered many obstacles. According to Ricardo Parra, director of the Midwest Council of La Raza and a supporter' of the farmworker movement, the major problem is how to get a grip on the corporations involved. The boycott is one way, but the list of products to boycott provides a clue as to just how impossible a job it is to carry out a truly successful boycott. "We have la\vs against monopoly," he notes, "yet monopoly is bigger than ever." 
Successes in other states such as California and 
when growers decided to _Plant crop~ ~ as corn. .......Wisconsin have blazed the trail for other victories 
wheat, and soybeans which are machine harvest-
able instead of tomatoes. 
The farmworkers and FLOC realize that the 
grower is caught in a bind as well as the 
farmworker. Efforts have been made to persuade 
the growers to join thefarm workers in their struggle, 
but there are many obstacles to overcome. One of 
those obstacles is racism. The large majority of 
farmwor~ers that come to pick tomatoes in the 
Midwest are Hispanic and Spanish speaking and 
prejudice plays a part in their plight. 
. J\nother problem is that the grower, even when wtllmg to cooperate, cannot keep up with inflation and the pressure from the canneries to mechanize and thereby avoid ''labor problems.'' But machine harvested tomatoes cannot be easily made into r,roducts such as tomato juice. A process called 
'e~aporation". is currently being developed by whtch th~ fleshier tomatoes of the variety that can be machine harvest can be converted into juice. Mechanization also demands that a variety of tomato that ripens uniformly be planted: the v~i~ty planted by most Ohio growers needs three ptckings by hand to get the entire crop harvested. ~echanization is also just another costly alterna­uve for the ~rower .. The farworkers do not oppose ~chanizauon as long as it does not involve the displacement of workers, but that is unlikely. 
Organizing a transient farworker population is difficult. The workers who come to any given area differ greatly from year to year. According to one in the farmworkers' movement. The ftrst step is to organize the workers themselves, then to put prc;ssure on the growers and canneries through strikes and boycotts. But to be success~!, the movement nee~s ~he support and backing of coun.dess orgaruzattons, groups, and the general public. The.farmworkers the!Dse~ves ~e confidant and determmed that they wtll wm this one. ~e success o~ the boycott and the events of this 
, summer will tell where the movement goes from bert" 
DOONESBURY 
COMPASS/fJV. JIJSTit:e. 
A 17411?. SHAKE. THESE ME 7HE PROffS5EI) 6a4L5 OF 7HE K&NNWY "dJt:r 
a= (J)N5CIENCE." 

farmworker, the union effort is kept going by "a ~-----.....-;;...___. 

art buchwald 

agency but from corresponding agenctes, which find themselves in the same shortfall position. 
"It is my hope that 1:his c;:ompilation can be published by the General Printing Office and sold to the public. A steering committee has been appointed 'to study the best methodS of distri. bution, as well as costs, and the report should be on my desk by the early part of next month. Each department head will receive a copy of the report comments as well as additional thoughts. 
"To facilitate matters on the book project, it is suggested that all departmental correspondence concerning conservation be sub-mined on yellow SxlO Memoran­dum Sheets (G·234 fonns), while those regarding distribution be written on the blue double carbon pads (K.677). If you do not have these colors in stock, you can obtain them from the supply room by fillin$ out Form 2323. 
"It goes Wlthout saying rhat 
either Institution. The news is EDITORIAL'BOARD reponed as accurately and as objectively Editor-!n-Chi~f ............Tony Pace News Editor ............ Diane Wilson
_The Observer_ of 
as possible. Editorials represent the Managmg Edttor .....·... Steve Odland Sports Editor ............ Ray 0 'Bnen Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 opinion of a majority of the Editorial Executive Editor . . . . . . ... john Calctdl Features Editor . . . . . . . . . Chris Stewart 
Board. . Commentaries, opinions and Execwive Editor ...... Barb Langhenry Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . ,Doug Christian The Observer is an independent ~wspa­letters are the views of their authors. Editorial Editor ....... Ro~ MiJis per published by students of the . Column space is available to all mem­Copy Editor ..........'. : PhiJ ~Jti_~ Production~ ...... Mardi Nevi" University of Notre Dame and Saint bers of tlx community, and the free Samt Mary's Editor . . . . . . FJJen 81«/dJ Business Manager ........ john T~~e"" Mary's College. It• does not necessarily expression of varying opinions on cam­News Editor .............. A.1111 Galls Advertising Manager ........ Bob Rudy reflect the policies of the administration pus, through letters, is encouraged. News Editor ............. ""*LewJis 
• 

Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 8

Features 
Winter Wonderland 
Any land is a wonder land, but some lands are 'wonder-er' than others. A Winterland is a 'wonder-er' land by far--so I have come to think. Of course, I may change my mind when Spring comes--but that is my prerogative. Right now I am all taken up by Winter--by Winter Wonderland, South Bend/Notre Dame, Indiana. · 
It started--this feeling, I mean, this passion--with the w~ that· I _have started out with these Wmter morrungs, to wit from the door of my apartmentbuildi~g at W~ Washington & William, in South Bend, to the entrance to the Albert Pick Motor Inn, one sood long block and a half away. The stdewalk is snow-bound--oh, maybe not piled high and deep, but certain!y piled--so I take the road, the left-stde of the road, walking against the: cars (I couldn't "':'a!k with the cars even ifI wanted to--for 1t ts a one-way s~eet). The light falling on the snow--on the snow on the ground, or on the snow in the falling snoWflakes--is like no other light that I ever did see. It thnces--it lights up the whole world for me and makes of it a festive play­gro~md. It definitely starts my day. 
I do not give much thought to the cars--except that they too are going their snowy way, but without consciousness. How lucky I am--how lucky Every~ru~:n is--to be able to know! How lucky one ts to know even a sin~le snowflake! 
I really do not gtve much thought to anything at all. But often enough two ] acques Maritain thol;lghts do c~me to mind (it's pretty early m the morrung for ] acques Maritain thoug~ts:-any time will do for a ] acques Marttam thought, but some times do. bc.:tter than oth~;s>. First ] acques Mart tam thou~ht: . . The intelligence in this c~e (the mrwtton ~f artistic beauty--but 1s the s~e f!l_Utatzs mutandis in the case of the mtuttton of transcendental beauty; moreover, the scene before us is--1 submit--the handiwork of God, Master-Artist), diverted from all effort of abstraction, rejoices without work and without dis­course. It is dispensed from its usual labor it does not have to disengage an intelligible from the matter i~ w~ch it is buried. in order to go over tts different attribu~es step by step; like a stag at ~e gushing spring, u~telli~ence has no.thing to do but drink; lt drinks the clartty of being. Caught up in the i~tuiti?~ of sense it is irradiated by an tntellibtble light ;hat is suddenly given to it, in the. very sensible in which it glin:ers, an~ which it does not seize sub ratzone ven, but rather sub ratione delectabilis, through the happy release pro...ured. for the intelligence and t_hrough_ the delight ensuing in the appettte, whi~ leaps at every good of the· soul ~ a~ tts proper object. Only afterwards willtt be able to reflect more or less successfully upon the causes of this delight. ' ' (Art and Scholastz'cism and the Frontiers of Poetry, p. 26). . . . 
Second ] acques Marttam thousht: "One day, after a walk in the wm~er­time Rouault tOld me he had JUSt disc~vered, by l~king at sno_w-clad · fields in the sunshine, how to pamt the white trees of spring.'' (Art and Scholastt'cism and the Frontz"ers of Poetry, p. 61). 
I open the door of the Albert Pick Motor Inn rather timidly--or gingerly (whichever . you prefer)--certainly gropingly and haltingly. It's because me hands are cold (oh, are my hands ever cold! But I like the sensation ofcold ... ) . I pause in the vestibule (I guess y~JU would call it a vestibule), and what wtth all the glass around me--glaass every which way I look--and with a flower or two or three behind the drape behind the glass that looks down over. the bar~-ID1:d with the snow and the snowmg outstde-.-1 sing, slowly and softly, Louts MacNiece's poem Snow: 
The room was suddenly rich and the great bay-window was Spawning snow and pink roses against it Soundlessly collateral and incompatible: 

World is suddener than we fancv it. 
World is crazier and more ofit than we 
think 

Incorrigibly plural. I peel and portion 
A tangerine and spit the p!ps and ~eel 
The drunkenness of things bemg 
vartous. 

And the fire flames with a bubbling sound for world Is more spiteful and gay than one supposes-On the tongue on the eyes on the ears in the palms of your hands-There is more than glass between the snow and the huge roses. 
Well, now I am ready for ~y 
substantial (and I do mean substantial) 
breakfast. The Coffee Shop on the lower 
floor of the Inn is the setting or 
locus,--and the ambiance is ina•eed 
pleasant. There is very much of a 
Winter atmosphere here, too. Either 
some guests are noting aloud the las1t~t 
snowfall reading or the latest Fahrenhett 
reading (Celsius hasn't really arr~ved as 
yet--it's just aborning; I would JUSt as 
soon it would be stillborn), or others-­
few enough, to be sure, but very 
vocal--are procl~g: "I'm mo':ing to 
Florida." I'm certainly not movmg to 
Florida--1 just couldn't do without my 
four seasons. So, I partake heartily of 
my breakfast--and I meditate, among 
other things, on the fact that I am storing 
up energy J.ust in cas~ today' s Winter 
Wonderlan includes 'wintry blasts' 
('blast' is not necessarily a constitutive 
note of Winter Wonderhind!). 
I pay my bill, and the ~hi,er I 
receptionist --or, better, recepnorustI 
cashier--thanks me warmly and sends 
me on my way with her ''Have a good 
day!" Bland? No, not really--it's only 
bland for bland people (Quidquid 
recipitur, recipitur secu_ndum _moiluf!Z 
recipientis--whatever ts recetved ts 
recetved according to the mode of the 
receiver). It really means--for me, and I 
think, for her--two things: 1) "Have a 
good Winter Wonderland day!"; & 2) 
"God bless you." What more could you 
want?· What more do I want? 
I walk slowly--and without 'jay­
walking' --to the bus terminal, which is 
'kitty-comer' from ~e l~n. Two ~ery 
'Winter Wonderland eXtstents dehght 
me . right away. The ftrst one is a 
thing--to with, the hug~ mound ofsnow 
that the . snow-machines and snow­
removers have pushed against the Odd 
Fellows Building. I call it 'Big Snow 
Candy Mountain'. The second is a 
person--to wit, the bus-dis~atc~er, vvho 
1s marvellously bundled up m his warm, 
warm parka and his warm, ":'arm g!oyes, 
and in what looks to me like a Little • 
Prince' scarf but is really a 'Big Prince' 
scarf and in ear mUffs that must have 
been :made from the tufts of the tails of a 
hutch of Peter Rabbits. I call him 'Mr. 
Winter Wonderland himself--when I am 
not callirig him ''Bob'' , or ''Bob 
Montgomery'', or ''Mr_. Montgomery''. 
I wait patiently at the door ofthe Notre 
Dame bus until all the women and girls get on--and I notice how beautiful they all are, and how beautiful their scarves are. I must go and buy me a scarf some day! I am not nearly so ·~ no, you g? f1CSt please' --or so admirmg-when 1t . com~s to the men--but I can usually manage a C-here;. after all, many of these men whom 'it comes to' have just arrived at the portal of the bus after a long walk through Winter Wonderlar;td-­and you know very· well (or you certrunly should if you have · been paying attention) that I have just arrived there right on the spot and right on the dot after my brief--if slow--walk from the 
'comfy-coziness' of the Inn. 
I put my 30 cents in the fare b?x (where else would you want me to put tt? --on the floor?), and I walk to the back of the bus ('the ftrst shall be last and the last ftrst') and take me seat at the left (as I face the back--I want to be very accurate about this, and not leave you in 
any sort ot a quandary as to where I am · 
and where I am seein~ and saying fr~m) 
side or end of just plain s.eat of the back 
row. It's a pretty hard seat (though I am 
really not complaining--it's good for the 
soul. It enables me to appreciate the 
better how wonderful is the thought 
Sedeo, ergo sum ('I sit, therefore I am') 
and how positively awful is the thought 
Cogito, ergo sum ('I think, therefor~ I 
am'); it just doesn't allow of bemg 
'comfortably ensconced in'. However, 
midway--or three-ftfths of the way--in or 
into or ofmy trip (to Notre Dame--you've 
guessed that I am going to N?tre D~e: 
haven't you? I am not even detounng 
to St. ] oseph' s Church--which I do every 
now and then--to 'go to Confession'. I 
would like my soul to be 'white ·as 
snow' . ) I will move to the center of the 
back row--the better to see 'Winter 
Wonderland to the nth degree as the bus · 
turns onto Notre Dame Avenue from 
South Bend Avenue. All Heaven breaks 
loose here--and I like to have a good long 
look from way back at the good long road 
to a good ong way into Notre Dame. 
Before moving, I often (especially on 'Winter Wonderland' days--I should do it every day, but sometimes I forget) thank God and my lucky stars that I long ago decided to 'take the bus and _leave the driving to us', and to have nothing at all .to do with cars except to collect dividends every three months from a few piddling automobile stocks that I bought many years ago in a moment of weakness (weakness of my self-not of the stock) and that I can't bring my 'Milquetoastia~· ~elf to d~spossess myself of (is this of danghng?) lest someone accuse me of not being interested in 'what's good for the country'. I also manage to glimpe often 'Winter Wonderland, The Mall, South Bend, Indiana' -:which through that left. (when l--or you--or anyone--or Everyman--is facing the back) rear window has all the appearances of being a sui genens Winter Wonderland, but which I never really get to 'check out'--since I never get to the Mall (no time for Penney's or Robertson's), so . much do I keep my 'nose to the grindstone' (it says here); and I alsp manage to imagine the 'anti-freeze' signs that must dot the banks and shoulders of our route, and that even when they are only images evoke in me the response: ''Bah Get away _with you! Don't you know that I am m a very 'anti-freeze' mood!" But I would never think of imposins my views on others. I am very extstenttal. I know that if you're going to have cars, you're going to have anti-freeze. They. go together-­somewhat like a horse and carriage, if not like love and marriage. 
I would like to change the name of Notre Dame Avenue for about eight months of the year (I include October and May--as the 'Little Prince' would say, "One never knows"). I woul? 1~~ to call it "Notre Dame des Netges · ("Our Lady of the Snows") or "Chemin de las Cote des Neiges" ("Road of the Upward Slope of the Snows'' --1 translate it very literally for you; moreover, I am going to need this word 'slope' ('hill' won't do) later, very shortly indeed). Now, I really can't call it both--oh, I could, but it would confuse you, or at least it would confuse the po~ice (I guess they would have to be genilarmes). So, I· opt for the ~econ~--let_me spe_ll it ou~ and pronounce lt agrun (smcelt ts !DY very most favorite name for a Wmterland street'--! hope Our Lady won't mind), · 
Chemin de Ia Cote des Neiges (I 
discovered it in Montreal--you take the Metro from station Berri de Montigny to station Guy, ·exit (verb--dynamic verb; don't mope along), walk one block left, cross the street, tum right and walk 3/4 of a block and wait patiently in front of a tailor shop for Bus 165--which will slowly take you up this long and beautiful slope). 
Anyway--these Winterland months--I am stnick to the quick of my spirit (or better, as Maritain would say, of 'intelligentiated sense') by the 'white 
Prof. Joseph Evans 

slopes of Notre Dame Avenue' (come 
now, dear reader, you can adjust to 
this--remember the 'white cliffs of 
Dover'). These 'white slopes' are all 
that the off-campus students' cars are or 
have become overnight (some philoso­
phers will say that it is only an accidental 
change--but I· would certainly dispute 
that, or at least I would wonder about 
that). And these 'white slopes' are 
mostly all 'upward' (or more abruptly 
'upward' than they would otherwise 
be--if you will only please be patient and 
see what I am contrasting them with), for 
most of the cars are facing away from 
Notre Dame and in seeing them (or what 
was them) you see their (or what was 
their) hood and windshield and roof and 
hood-windshield-roof gives you an 
upward slope .(if you have eyes to 
see)--certainly mush more of an upward 
slope than back window (at least most of 
the back windows that I have seen lately) 
and roof give you. So, I am not really 
imaging things when I want to change 
the name of Notre Dame Avenue to 
"Road of the Upward Slope of the 
Snows". You had much better call me 
an 'engineer' than an 'imagineer'. 
Now, I have something else--and 
something better--to do with ''Notre 
Dame des Neiges" than to I?in it on 
Notre DameAvenue (maybe this is what 
I get for being perfectly objectzve in 
opting for Chemin cfe /at Cote .de! 
Netges--and not lettmg an extnnszc 
factor like 'Our Lady would like it' 
determine me to ''Notre Dame des 
Neiges''). I can pin it on Our Lady 
herself--on Our Lady of the Dome, or, 
even better, on her University itself, on 
the University of Notre Dame du Lac 
itself. I can do this despite two 
formidable obstacles. First formidable 
obstacle: Father Sorin himself. Remem­
ber he is supposed to have said to his 
confreres: ' 'Let's stop here until the rain 
stops.'' He may be very adamant about 
keeping the name ''Notre Dame du 
Lac''. But I think that Father will finally 
acquiesce. For one thing, he knows 
now--ifhe didn't know then (he _probably 
dtd--Father Sonn knew a lot oj things)-­
that water and snow are really a same nature under two different states--and this same nature may today prefer (for some .reason that God only--and p<!rhaps a few scientists--know) the state of snow to. the state of water--at least in this ' State. For another, I think that 'Our Lady would like it' may cut more ice with Father Sorin than it did with me.· Yes, I think that the obstacle that was Father Sorin has been removef/. 
But--second formidable obstacle--how am I going i:o get up on the Dome to do my pinning--and my emblazoning (when it comes to the University itself, it will have to be emblazomng--how else am I really going to effect my change of name for the University, when you consider that the name ''Notre Dame duLac'' has on countless occasion· been piped into practically every T.V. den and. T.V. living room and T.V. bedroom m the country?)? Answer: I am not. But I am going to get around this obstacle. I am not going up on that there Dome myself--espectally when it's all so snowy and slippery. No, I am going to appeal to some of the alumni (I do not say that they are legion) who have been up there or very close to up there, and who would surely pool thetr 'know-how' and do my clean work for me. Yes, hurrah for the alumni--or at least, for these alumni. would chant the old fight song (simply making it plural): "They're men, they're men, they're Notre Dame men"--only the giils that are here now would run me out of here now, 
Enjoy--dear reader--our Winter Wonderlands. But I hear you asking: What about the Big Snow--the Big Blizzard--ofJan. 25-29, 1978? How can you call that a 'Wonderland'? Well, it's a wonder we survived it,--isn't it? That alone would do--it would at least get us in 'under the wire of Wonder'. But that doesn·· t have to do alone. There were other thtngs about it--wonderful other thing$. Write you own 'little essay' about them. 

J 


The Observer -Features Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 9 
Heroes Anonymous 
Anton-J~ennann Chroust: ND's Versatile Scholar 
Pat 0' Leary 

Dr. Anton Chroust,Professor Emeritus four books--Socrates, Man and M;yth, recalls. ''1 performed-quite well and I used to swim quite a bit at the Rock of the Law School, is not your rypical Aristotle Protrepticus, The Rise of the attracted attention. . So· I made the during the 40's and 50's, but I don't professor by any means. A dedicated Le~al Profession In America (2 vols] and German water polo team.'' Chroust anymore. I've gotten lazy." At 72, I scholar with the world-wide credentials, Anstotle (2 vols]. Prof. Chroust esti­played fullback for the squad. His team think we can forri ve him. . 
mates that he has written some~her~
an internationally acknowledged expert on the life of Socrates and the works of around 6,~ pages in his life ti.rr-~ "fi:-~.t Aristotle, a gold medalist in the Olympic made parucularly arduous by ln. ·it --6 Games at Amsterdam in 1928, Professor sryle. Chroust is undoubtedly one of the most ''I rype everything with my . two intriguing personalities on campuus. fingers," says he, "It takes a while to At the ripe age of 72, Professor peck out that many pages." · Chroust is certainlY. one of the oldest Anyone who happens to examine the faculry members sull teaching at Notre entries under his name in the card Dame. He teaches two courses, both in catalogue, will be amazed at the diver­the Spring semester: Hellinistic-Roman siry of his writings. He has written on Philosophy, and a law course called topics ranging from Aristotle, Socrates, Contemporary. American Jurisprudence. and ancient law, to American slavery, Age, as well as ~eography, has never Andrew Jackson, and American juris­seemed to hinder his academtc pursuits. prudence. At twenry one, the young Chroust Socrates, Man and Myth (1957} received the first of three doctorates, a brought Chroust international recognit­JUD (Law) in 1929 from the lfniversiry of ion. However, the book, a ''quest for the Erlangen in his native Germany. A Phd historical Socrates,'' has met with some in_Ehilosophy from Munich iJ[) 1931, and controversy. ajSD (Law) from Harvard in 1933 soon He defends the unpopular position followed. He (has also) studied English which claims that the story of Socrates law at the University of London, Roman told by Plato, Xenophon, and other law at Bolognia, and philosophy at the minor writers, is basically a great "fairy Sorbonne. He taught law at Harvard and tale,'' an adaptation of an earlier Greek Yale before coming to Notre Dame in theme of the plight of the good man in an 1946 where he finally took root. But not im~rfect world. completely. 'All that we really know for sure Every year Chroust spends May about Socrates is his parents' names, the through October in Innsbruck. From year he was born, and the year he died. there he travels throughout Europe to The rest is mere conjecture," says research his latest project, or to lecture Chroust. at several universities, most notably, "I question whether Plato ever met Padua in Italy and Fribourg in Switzer­Socrates. Plato speaks through a mask land. calied Socrates in his dialogues, just as ''Travel broadens the mind,'' say the greek actors at that time performed Chroust concludingly, as if to account for behind masks,'' Chroust asserts. the restless, romanuc spirit within him. He admits that his views have "upset Accompanying Chroust during his a lot of people." "In England. my book annual sojourns in Europe, is his red '76 was almost put on the index. They were Porsche 911 S, a car that has become his so upset,'' he says, adding with a trademark on campus. He and the car slightly cynical note, "you see, many seem inseparable. people like grim fairy tales and Grimm's ''Around the beginning of .May, I drive Fairy Tales." to New York where I put the car aboard The majoriry of Prof. Chroust's ship and sail to France," says he, research here and abroad is concerned explaining the annual ritual. ''From with the lost works of Aristotle. He France I then drive to Austria.'' knows these writings once existed Chroust recalls with satisfaction the because they are referred to and cited by two-seater '60 Mercedes 300 Sl he had Aristotle and other ancient writers. before owning his Porsche: "The '60 Chroust claims there are runeteen works Mercedes was a fantastic car. Its of Aristotle which have vanished. By maximum speed was 160 mph, and it piecing together numerous fragments, took less than six seconds to go from from various citings and references, standing to 60 mph. I finally sold it to an Chroust 'reconstructed' one of these last automobile collector. I got quite a bit of works--the "Protrepticus." money for it since Struttgart stopped In his youth, Anton Chroust was not making them in 1962. '' And yt~s. Chroust only a dedicated scholar, but an except­admits to having gunned it on the ional swimmer and waterpolo player as Autobahn well. He was so good that 1 at 18 he The energetic man continut:s to add to caught the eye of the German Olympic his already extensive body of publicat­scouts. ions. To date, Chroust has written over "We played in anintercollegiate water 200 articles, a number of reviews, and polo match in Danzig in 1925," he Sensual Satire Those Long,Cold and Lonely SouJ~b Bend Nights Terrence Napier g~. IMen of Notre Dame, are you tired of •An I.Q. of less than 40 pointsthose cold, lonely South Bend nights? (programmable to fit your needs!). Has griping become your favorite past • And here's the best part. Yourtime? Has this happened to you? N.D.C.S. is programmed to knock at your door at any ttme, day or night, with "H..Hi. I'm Larry ... " the touch of a button."So what! You're a big, ugly Notre Don't mistake the N.D.C.S. withDame male with nothing but S-E-X on cheaper models that only bore you withhis mind. So get lost! I'm studying." friendship, interesting discuss10n, and 1 (Yecchh!) platonic love. The N.D.C.S. isSound familiar? unique m oi.ts exclusive feature, theWell, now Dome Inc. has the answer to anti-communicant control. Yes, yourend all that frustration. Tite all-new, N.D.C.S. will walk, talk, do anything butnever before advertised, N.D.C.S. No, think.N.D.C.S. is not a magazine. N.D.C.S. is Now you too cari have a fine Catholica unique development in cybernetic educanon and still enjoy the pleasure of technology that makes partic~s. posters real women, the kind found only at stateand even magazines obsolete. schools.N.D.C.S. is short for Notre Dame Chick And, if you order now, you 'II recieveSubstitute, a beautifully constructed absolutely free, a copy of Emil T.female androidal replica guaranteed to Hofman's, "Chemistry: Principles andfulfill your every need. Properties' ', to have something else toJust look at these features. complain about. .• A hip size of up to thirty p'ercenr less Supplies are limited, so order yoursthan that of the average Notre Dame now.  ~dvanced to the finals in the ·1928 As my interview with Professor Olym{>ics against Hungary, and was Chroust over breakfast winded to a vicionous: "We were tied 2-2 in regular close, I asked him if he agreed with time, and in the overtime we won." Aristotle's thesis in the ''Protrepticus'' -­He recalls that he did not have much the lost work which he had spent years in time to celebrate the victory, however: reconstructing. Essentially, Aristotle "I had to go from Amsterdam i.mmed­argues in favor of the intellecrual life, iatley back to my studies because I was asserting that only in intellecrual pur­up for my doctorate.'' He was 21 at the suits does true hapJ?iness lie. time. "I was good swimmer at five," ''Yes, I agree w1th him,'' Professor Chroust points out, '.'but the ftrst time Chroust answered, ''But since I've my mother put me in the water I pursued one all my life, I'm a bit screamed. My mother said, "you'll prejudiced.'' never learri to swim." I fooled her. I Athletic Chic Abolishball Sweeps Campus Joe Ryan members must disagree among them­Sometimes the old ND spirit causes selves for this to occur, and that almostme to tremble with the realization that I never happens when a group of inex­too am a part of this great communiry. perienced team members come to­The way people throw themselves into gether--they want to run behind that ball the interhall sports program is a perfect no matter what. It's kind of reminiscentexample of what I mean. In the fall, the ofa herd of cows being driven across thelarge number of interhall football in­wild plains of the old west.. Yeah, thosejuries really said something for the were the days--when you could ride your determination of the recipients, as well horse through town and if you didn't like as the determination of their opponents. somebody or if someone looked cross­In the spring there's bookstore basket­eyed at you you'd just shoot'em in theball, where 1,000's of guy:; battle it out back, business as usual. And then you'd till there's only five left. I sometimes go into the saloon and have a drink thattremble about that, you know?... · you didn't pay for. Well right now there's an· all new The final option is to get reallyinterhall sport being played, probably offended when the ball hits you--thefor a limited time only. It's called natural thing to do, especially if youabolishball, and it's very different from were asleep at the time, is to try and kick most interhall sports. While there are it back at the original team that picked it. still 22 teams, one from each hall, they But this gets harder and harder as moreall play at the same time; it gets kind of teams run behind it, giving the ballconfusing, because half the time one uncontrollable speed. You could breakteam doesn't know what the majoriry of your toe.the other teams is doing. This makes Now the object of the game becomes·strategy dangerous, but playing it· by evident. The ball is going so fast you can ear is easier, anyway. hardly see it, and it's headin~ straight1be game is played on a rectangular for the tower! That's the obJect. Thecourt which looks like an enlarged referees, with bald, skinny, radioactivebasketball court, and at one end there's heads and long poinry ears rub theira tall, dark, dank, despicable forebod­hands together and cackle with glee from ing-looking tower with a dungeon. This the tower control room. They've gottower is where the referees, who also such swelled heads--don't you wish youplay, stay andinsidiously observe. · could knock them down a peg or two?Abolishball be~ins when one team, Anyway, they try to prevent the ballusually on an outside fringe of the court, from reaching the control room. They do far awar from the tower, decides what this in three ways. size bal to use. The bigger the ball, the First they'll suggest other gamesmore conceited the team choosing _it without a ball to the teams (Hopscotch,must be. To seem unassuming while pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey, etc.). If thisacrually being sneaky, this team will fails, they ignore the ball, knowing itchoose a small ball, mainly because won't go away. Lastly, they plantthey've never played before. (Some treasonous team members within theteams think they don't know how.) ranks of unsuspecting loyal subjects, toThey get the ball rolling towards the weaken the ball's growing strength. other teams. During the game, the ball If none of these work, they simplywill ricochet off every team, which kind resort to their ultimate weapon--bombs. of boggles the mind (I think), but it really When the ball is on the verge of splittinghappens, anyway. · · the very foundations of the tower, theWhen the ball hits a team, that team rest of it is bombed out by the refs. Thehas a choice ofwhat to do about it. First, teams following it suffer from shockit could choose to run behind it, giving waves, but it's nothing serious. Thethe ball a little more speed. Ifthey don't important thing is, the game is over, andwant to do that, they can let the ball the referees have won. That's the way it bounce off of them, with the motto: goes every time. It was a monotonous_"Ignore it and hope it goes away.'' lbis and boringly predictable outcome, but a . doesn't usually work or even happen good effort. We may be worthy of a. because it's strategic-. The team bigger ball next t~e. Features Editor Pontificates: VI Today's Heroes Anonymous features interviewwithFatherHesburgh will kick an amazing Professor Emeritus, Anton off a new column spotlighting Admin­Chroust. Response has been very good istrative personnel. to this new column. It.will be a weekly Buddmg music, ftlm, theatre, and column, . and anyone lfl: the ND-SMC book critics, cartoonists and anyone commurury may be subrrutted as a hero. vaguely interested in written exposition: Th~ column is not limited to any speci!ic I'm waiting. writer-anyone (student, faculry, . relig-A th .­1 St" thi lk ious, even security men) may nominate a ~a rr :sBeap ague. lfh ngs UbeP: · th · 1 d b · · a writer... a features uman mg.hero, write e ante e, an su rrut It to Th , uall th b' ththe Features Editor. They must be er re us y . e most . tzarre,_ c submitted several days prior to publicat-I funniest and are .mveter~t<; UJsomntac~. · If • · d · th If 300 new wnters (rrurumum) don t I Ion. J.ou re mtereste ' give e jimmediately enlist, I'm going to become features e . a call at 747.1, or 3748. a 'ock. Or a throat. Or both. · Next week, a speciaf four ~e l lJ  



--~ 
-·\ 

r he Observer -Features Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 1 
t 
l I 
.__ 
r 

Letters to a Lonely God 


·counter Clockwise 
There is an honesty on the face of a 
clock that is simply hateful. I can't deal 
with an honesty that is so smug and 
uncompromising; an honesty that 
doesn't know how to cheat, and refuses 
to comfort you with a harmless little lie, 
when all you're asking for is time to be 
merciful. I want to smash the faces of 
clocks, and burn calendars, because they 
are the enemy. Constantly,.! am being 
defeated by dates, and saddened by the 
loss of moments I had relied on to linger. 
Though I would cling to them out of 
deepest need, the day slips away, the 
evening ends, moved on by the insis­
tence of a clock that can be neither 
compassionate or pitying. Time is 
spoiled, like a selfish child, by always 
needing to have its own way: insisting 
that it be ten o'clock when I need it to be 
only quarter ofeight; stubbornly keeping 
to the scheduling of yesterday when, for 
over a week now, I have longed for it to 
be today. 
Yet, on campus more than in most places, there IS a kind of timelessness that maintains itself among the flow of days and seasons. On campus, there are always Freshmen asking the questions that Freshmen ask. There are always graduating Seniors worrying about themselves, trying to find an identity that will suit them for a lifetime. There are Sophomores and Juniors here, as there were Sophomores and Juniors here ten years ago, involved in the same· discussions, longing for freedom, anxious to get beyond the irksomeness of rules, not yet aware that life is a game played by somebody's rules, with the somebody never being yourself. 

At Mass, I look at faces, styles, and haircuts. I think: ''I know you all, because I have seen you before. . .last year, or in '73, or in '68. Or, if I have not seen you, I have seen your brothers and sisters. The resemblances between you are so great, I can hardly tell the difference. '' 
In a world where the students never seem to change, and I can scarcely feel the changes in myself, where is the evidence of the onward rush of time? It is not to be found in the appearances of students whom I encounter year after year in groups of nineteen and twenty year olds, because on campus, the scene belongs perenially to the young. Rather it is looking into the faces of Old Grads, back for a visit, that I realize eighteen has turned into twenty eight, and that there is a sadness in the loss of the sweetness of youth. 
Clocks may hurry me more quickly than I want to go, but I wouldn't choose to be young again, mostly because I no longer need to be young. I wouldn't have the courage to live through the self-doubts, the disappointments, the fears and hurts of bemg nineteen, not even for tjle experience of young love, f•eshly found. But the dirty trick of time is that it leaves you feeling shabby, as though none of the songs were being sung for you; none of the dances were being played for you; none of the poems describe your emotions in the daisy patch; and as though the only use you, at your age, could make of April, was to fertilize the tulips. 
The Old Grad, coming back, brings you sometimes--though he never even mentions it--the pain of no longer being 
Father Robert Griffin 
young. He feels age inside of him like the loss of innocence. His hope . incoming back to campus is to fmd the lost dream, the tarrushed ideals, the squandered graces, the re-birth into innocence. His need, in talking to you, is for an absolution that'will]ardon him for the ways life has change him. 
Yet, none of us were ever innocent for very long; in truth, for most of us, innocence scarcely last through puberty. We hate oUrselves for the mistakes we've made, but it would be equally tiring to be always right. The absolu­tions we need are the absolutions we give ourselves; all other mercy is so 
. plentiful in our lives, we would have a problem e~capin_g from it. 
Clocks have faces, and people have faces; both kinds of faces tell the stories of time. Heaven, being eternal, needs no clocks. Heaven, I guess, will be a' lot like a campus where the faces are always young. Yet I love to read the stories that faces tell. Even at the price of being a slave to clocks, I bless all the years that have ticked away on clocks since the wonderful birthday when I was nineteen. 
'What do you.hear? What do you say, Jerry?' Rocky Sullivan
Dave Gin· 

SPECIAL: ''S1raigh1 Talk" Host Dave · ''Maste~iece Theatre'': February 16, "Warning: This picture contains harshBarrett features four Notre Dame-Saint 10 pm. In ' Breeze Anstey,'' two women and very vulgar language and may beMary's students. They'll ·discuss the attempt to escape the depressed life of considered shocking and offensive. Norecent controversey over Observer pub, . the 1930's by starting an herb farm. The explicit sex or violence is shown." Ohlication dealing with sexual equality at story _is one of_ H.~. .Bates' .m?st 
well, I guess you'll have to settle withNotre Dame. Taped· earlier this week. revealins exploranons mro the vanettes just hearing about it. 
Lively, provocative commentary. First of femirune experience. show is Thursday February 1~. 6:30p.m. 
Movies On Campus
and 11:30 p.m. Second show Friday February 16, 6:30p.m. and 11:30 p.m. 

Kentuct. Fried Movie; February 15,
Don't miss it. 

7,9,1fpm. Engineering Auditorium. 
PBS [Channel 341 " ·· 
Sorry, never heard of the thing. 
"The Merry Wicfow"; February 10, 9 Other pro. Beverly Sills, Allan Titus, and Sports 
Andrew Foldi star in the San Diego Mardi Gras; February 9-17. Stepan Opera's production of the English ver­basketball [women]; ND vs Goshen Center. sion of this favorite light comeay opera. College. February 10, 4 pro. ACC. Performance On Campus 
"Mairead Corrigan on the !toad for . Basketball, [men}; ND vs UCLA. Peace"; February 11, 2 pm. For February 11, 2 fro. ACC. NolTe Dame Collegium Musicum; organizing and coordinating a peace Fencing; U o Detroit, U of Chicago, February 14, 8:15 pro. Crowley Hall of march in Northern Ireland, Mairead Milwaukee Technical College, North­Music. Corrigan became the youngest person western at ND, February 11. ACC. Mummenshanz; February IS, 8 pro. ever to have received the Nobel Peace Wrestling; ND vs Purdue. February O'Laughlin Auditorium. Prize with co-recipient, Betty Williams. 14, 6 pm. ACC. Ice Capades; February 14-18. ACC. Taped during a speaking tour during the Hockey; ND vs Minnesota. February Tickets are $4, $S.50, $6.50. Call the 
ACC for show times. 
summer of 1978. 16, 17, 7:30pm. ACC. "Austin City Limits"; February 11, 11 
LectureMovies OffCampus



"®ncr 
upon 
a 
O:l!Ulaic... " 


-----------~---------­
The Observer Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 12 
Any Undergrad is Eligible to be the. 1979-80 JUDICIAL COORDINATOR 
Applicat,i.'ons available in the 
Student Government Office 2nd jloor Lafortune 
De~iline Feb. 23 
For further details contact Jayne R:izzo (7961-6413) Kristin Quann (1343-6413) 
Engineering & Computer Science Majors 
DON'T GRADUATE 
without talking to the Hughes Recruiter visiting your campus soon. 
Contact yt)Ul' placement oftlce for i111terview dates. 
r------------------, 
l I ttUGHES l I 
I I 
L------------------~
CINtlt'fl•,_I/I10IId with IIMcii'OIIia 
AN EQUAL OIPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 
General, 1rneeting for those. inter~ted in working for 
THE OBSERVER 

7 pm. 
in the Observer Office (3rd floor of Lafortune) 
HYou're Tired Of The Cold .. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldln& 
11111 l,.li.IIVIt.loo~ AMI oi~Uo 111 Slli!Oil!> MIL! toMUW.lt !>1LIItJ.l~ lJ. !HI 'V.Y AMI ALIA 51 ll.ASM!i.,. , ••• , .Ato:Y WIIU 1111tJilllO ltAH 1111t.YII:11~ Jol\:~1 HoWl. A Ctlii'Crlllfll l'lUrll\ tkM.IHM.AlltiN) t!tlllt 111i tiLt. AI 1141. rl.ACUUH1 aultAL. ....... llt.Gl5TIIA11t!lll, 1'-llk­1 Hlol ,tr.'l-111' Sllt:fTS A!<oll IKrl•rtlk I.L1t.llA1Ckl Alii lh IIU"' . I I, Alll'tiSI~111AII11~ 1111W 
. . . . . • , PIACf!4f:~l HI MIA!. I~ II!'U• 11:110 A,M, fl• \1UII 1'.!1., .. lloliAl HI Ill lllilli\l, • · 1•11>~11.1 1111 PIAitM~f'l'"l -.MlAI I'll~ Anl111I11NAI INrlllti\Alllllo MlloAIIUI/1(, 11-lliR\'ItW N'U PI ACM'li-.Nl S~MYICt:J ANU PMtlC[ 1 ~:tcr.S. 
'(!II' Hl"!<l" ~IH~ I'll~ "VOl~ INTI MVIUol> PI.NrDNAl.I.Y. 
TIU :IU:IIi~~p Pt.lllllb IS I"MIIH ll:Otl 1\,M. tO \11141 P.M., ..IMI!AY ll\Mt" t'HI'II!IIAY, UI;\KlHNt., rrtllOAU IL 
M.ICIM~ 
NO lh'TEMVII"I/5 SCHtOIII.I:Il lll't Til 1..\liii~AJ Hill InA\·· WASH1hr.TUH'~ ~IIITHI!AY. llrt"IU. ~11.1. ftl oiPit. h'K Slf;!oi·UPS FilM IIHJI m Hlli.AIIY Jlf. 
htn• LU" and Cll~'!!.''"-....£!.•ualn Dhhil>n I In all clhclpllfll• 
c.rnlnTndCon II In ~11 rn~r ~~ ..~lpllllf'•. I In Mitt. 
~.f._ 
1\ntc. lluuSy•t-, Ya)Yu, C.at lronond Pt ..tlcPip.. Poflllooll~t.n!nar,Coll•a•O.v Proar•, hu1r.. Candldotn. Yarlouo tOIOPIII~ loculon•. CIILI•n•hlp uqulrt'<l. 
!=~•ntalllliMh"•ll'""llan~ 
CI\1011HtoF1b, z2, 
1 
Cofltln...-.t•IOJ!Co 
l' 
bUilU
-· 
I 
I 
I 

I I I 
I 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

1 
\ 
..
R:r!J~t 
.. 
j. 

Warm Up At The Nazz !!! 
\ 

l 
' 

llnCb.. endCbl. lfiAwllhO..IcaiiS. 
!!luiUbl• LHtA81ufiiiCt5ocluxof lbiUftludlutu 1\ft"n.,dlftl. 
:.!ct::~~~~ CotiCUcton. IM In ICl or CI(IIUh conctrn). 
u.aoUnato Projut 1111'· Orlaln1lly PlluburabwHh nlocatlon polalbll toiHtrolt, Joaton, Col.-..ul, Lot Anlllt'l• (IIIUIIIIIIpr•qu\ud. 
JkOoq.l.t'• .,,,.. ''"' 
II!AI::Ct. 
P!t!!!-01!11 hnl Corp ltnlaad\llnfrM~~ctCI. lliiiU, Tral•l........ ar• tor Po•-'• P9'1Uon. ao~, u. Pera.bi.YiM, 
~ 
"''"· 
lcou P!p!r Cfttax 
I lnA.o:u. 
l!!lp carbltl! Corp/Lh!!ll Olvl•ln 
I In Accc. Al:c-tlq Yuh.... T.,ryt---' 
l!!lfi!O,!fY; IMIMipoill 1 IMt rtor-I,K, 
hno...I,VJH, 


Fi!IP.'" Gref 
l!yMie tf Me ef 


lli'l:it-. 
1ftll?lt.'M': 
~.... 
f'e':ll~-·.....
lilt."'lr----lo-loo
lwlpf&l • ..,_ .......... u .,....._. ....
,..11_,_.,.,.,.,.......,,, 
l'~!ll'l:.'m..,,._. • .. _.....­
....w-..-, C~Mat.,...,., *"• ~h&. 
ilr:fiJ'e: ~17 '-1 ........ ,,....._ IAoMbf 
.. 1&. ......-&-F _....,.,, U. ca-nal lenteN ......... lb ..tlo ...tloC.,.kl. IIA'• .... c., ld. ,.., t.n-lap ,..nt-. "--~-'·
....,....'-' ..,..._ _.. ,..us-.. CC.O,.c" l<lnle••
-,,
..... 
l'f!'Cr.''rl!~w" ""'PH1 "".. 

.~d!'t!u~ ~~'.!!!'f::·~~r ..nld 
... kl•'h•l-. II!&IM,.6cct,rt•f•rJyn­AM1Jil ..,. ra-o• Trd-. ., l• eo.. lot or ral~tl4 1&.1" ror Pnar-r In lyu-Dllpar-t, 

...,. lpftW !l!f Co 
I lnLU.. AtU ........ Ad. 
T!!!l Jutt!Pf!!l!lpc. KetUIII!!IlfCUISfl Prft*ll
•'""·•·•to, ...,...,.,,u,lllt. 

:iT.Ir.'r..&!"&:o.le!r:.'C:::·.e•t!l': ..... 
IIIII...,IIC!. 
~r.:-c~HS' o,'l91,D~nu-. ror• Dll!lp, 
"-uract!!rlft&,a.!llnh. l.coc!IIMI rt. v.,...
t•. 
CIUuuhlpfe4Uireti, llnc"iatUITrytl Co
............ 

FEB. 14th 
thru SUN. FEB. 18th NOTRE DAME 
A.C.C. 
Wed. nl!-,! 
-c-.-.aby
otre Dame 
Credit Unl-
Prices 
$4.00-$5.50-6.50. 
HALF PRICE 
for ~/SMC Students 
for 
Thurs 8 p.m. 
Sat. 12 noon 
Sun. 6:00 m. Shows. 
Juniors to take 
•
reservattons 

The Junior Parents .Weekend Committee will be tak.in~ table reservations for the President's Dinner Tuesday through Thurs­day in the lobby of laFonune. Hours will be 12 noon to 1 p.m. and 3 to 5 p.m. 
Tables at the dinner in Stepan Center can accomodate 18 peo­ple, and students are asked to get a group of 18 together. Hall rectors have all been invited and can be included in the seating arrangements also. 
Only one person per table of 18 need make the seating reserva­tion, but it is necessary that all members of the group have paid in advance. No reservations can be accepted otherwise. 
A capacity audience of 2100 is assured and the table reserva­tions will be given out on a first-come, ftrst-serve basis. Those who fail to make these reservations will be seated ran­domly. If there are any ques­tions, students should call Jeff Schloemer (1149), Anne Tafluto (7936), Oare Stack (7864), or tom McGrath (8981). 
Dinner tickets are no longer available because the supply has been exhausted. Some parents who sent in late reserva­tions can not be accomodated either. They are being notified presendy and, if at all possible, arrangements will be made for them to see the LaSalle basket­ball game. 
For that reason juniors who are attending the dinner are asked to bring their LaSalle tickets to l.aFonune when they register. Only that ticket will be used and the packet will be returned at that time. 
Off campus students and their parents are also invited to attend the 0-C reception at the Knights of Columbus hall following the President's Dinner. The recep­tion will stan at approximately 
10:30 p.m. Those planning to attend should register at the Student Activities office on the first floor of l.aFonune or contact Roman Macia (234-2389) or Maura Zalud (259-8785). 
'Grand Slam' pep rally 
A "Grand Slam" PeP. Rally for the ND-Ua.A ~e will be held this Sat. Ni~ht (t'eb. 10) at 7:00 in the ACC Pit. Guests will include Coach "Digger" Phelps, the 
Irish  basketball  team,  the  ND  
Band  and  a  special  surprise  
guest.  

7 PUIUC PERFORIAICES: TilliS. I P .1. • Fll. I P .I. SAT. 10., 4 P.l. IIIII I P.l. SUI. 2 P.l. 1111 I P.l. 
Tickets now on SALE ACC BOX OFFICE 


The Observer Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 11 
THESE ARE THE ARMIES OF THE NIGHt 
Tonight they·re all out to get the Warriors. 



tops. [photo by Tracy jane McAulijje 

Defendant seeks new trial locale 
ROCK SPRINGS, WYO. [AP]­The city's former top law enforce­ment officer will ask that his trial on charges of murdering an undercover policeman be held outside this mining boom town. 
The slain undercover police­man was investigating alleged vice and corruption here. 
Ed Cantrell, 51, the city's former public safety director, was bound over for trial Wednesday after pleading innocent to the first-degree murder charges. 
The undercover policeman, 
Michael Rosa, died last July 15, 
two days before he was to testify 
in Cheyenne before a state gr~d 
jury investi~ating repons of vtce 
and corrupuon in Rock Springs, a 
city of about 18,000 people 180 
miles east of Salt Lake City. 
Cantrell pleaded innocent be­fore Sweetware County District Judge Kenneth Hamm. Earlier, after a 15-day preliminary hear­ing Justice of the Peace Nena Stafford James ruled that Can­trell should be tried. 
Hamm gave both sides until 
April 15 to file motions. 
Cantrell's defense attorney, 
Gerald Spence, argued that Can­
trell should be freed or stand trial 
on a lesser charge of man­
slaughter. During the pre­
liminary hearing, defense attor­
neys claimed Cantrell shot Rosa, 
29, inself-defense .. 
Several witttesses testified 
Cantrell was one of the best shots 
in Wyoming. 
Spence said yesterday he 
would seek to change to place of 
the trial from Rock Springs 
"Because my client is entitled to 
have as fair a trial as possible, 
but I doubt he could have a fair 
trial anywhere. " · 
Spence described Cantrell as 
''a man who had been respected 
and loved. A man whose 
enemies respected him, who 
always tried to do right and act 
correctly'' 
But "a rubber stamp has been 
placed on his head as a first-de­
gree murderer," said Spence. 
Spence ch<.......:t~rized Rosa as a 
womaruzer who 1d problems 
working with his tellow officers. 
The state grand jury before 
which Rosa was to testify ended 
its year-long term last November. 
It did not issue an indictments 
related to political corruption or 
vice in Rock Springs. 
A SINGLE MAN INDECENT EXPOSURE 
Mall 2:15 4:00 5:45 7:45 9:30 
"~ 

GERRY RAFFERTY CityToCity 
Including: Baker Street/Matties Rag Right Down The Line/ Home And Dry 
<.. ~~

:_:,~~:~ ~· 
/ 1t1-~ ' ·. ' -~.. ' 
~j.tl~·-~••)
l'•.... 

v ' jt' • ~ .
,..;# . 

.. .~ .4(~/ ,. ' " 
,,.•,,. ­
.. 

Paramount P1ctures Presents ALawrence Gordon Product1on "THE WARRIORS" Execut1ve Producer Frank Marshall Based Upon tne Novel by Sol Yunck Screenplay by Dav1d Shaber and Walter Hill Produced by Lawrence Gordon 
R 'l:.,.''i..: ,_,_,~· 1r e y "" er 1 . ·~ 
"""'""' " o· ect d b ""It H11 ' · Scottsdale Starts Fnday at 1; .-'~1 
RCA 

COLUMBIA 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
STEREO LPS SERIES 798 


$5.99 
' 

STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
including: You Don't Bring Me Flowers (Duet With Neil Diamond) 



$4.99
Love Theme From"AStar Is Born" (Evergreen) 
The Way We Were 
,_
Stoney End 

COLUMBIA 
l-


····· 

The Observer Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 14 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 

Noddy 
Oriental Express Restaurant 
Featuring Cantonese Clunese, Vietnamese & Amencan Dishes 
Dixie Way N. 
"Carry out or Dine in'' 
272-6702 

................ 
Watc.l-.,: 
·••· 
The Secrets of Fatima 
• 
a 13 part T.V. senes 
9 AM · 
Sunday, Jon. 28 thru 
'I 2'1
Sundoy Apn •C. WNDU-TV rlhonnel l 6

••••lli'-1iiiiiiiiliiil•ll ture will make tax reductions 
SEN[) LIVING VALE:NTINES. 
FTD LoveBundle Bouquet FTD Valentine Bud Vase. 
Those FfD Aorists really 
get around ...for you! 

FTD LowBundlee Bouqu.et, usuaUy available for less than $17.50. FTD Valentine Bud Vase, usuaDy available for less than $10.00. As an lnd..-ndent busineaman, each FTD Florist sets his own prices. Ser­
vice chargn and delivery 1111ay be additional. Most FTD Florists accept fNitor cmllt cardl. 
Cll979 Flortlb" Tra-'<1 o.Dwry 
••• KNowltJG  lltAT No  ••• ONCE '\ttl HIK£ 4U 1!-IE WAY'  
.MATER  HOW  fREEZIN0  M  TO  D-103  ~~NG  LDTJ  
COLD  If 15  aJ'T?Ic;:e" • ••  )tV CAN  'DE.RE'ND  c:N ya;g  
2  CAR.  -r;  

Carter to rely on taxcuts to stimulate economy 
WASJDNGFON (API-Treasury Secretary Michae Blumenthal said me Caner administration intends to rely in the future on income-tax cuts, rather than higher spending, to stimulate me economy. 
Although it would be danger­us to reduce taxes in 1980, he told me Senate Budget Committee, the economy may require a tax cut in 1981. Blumenthal con­
ceded me necessity of such a reduction would further delay President Caner's goal of balan­
cin~ the budget.
' We can't have tax cuts until inflation is under control," he said. If economic growth next year falls significantly short of currenrexpecrations, Blumenthal added, the Caner administration 
would take a careful look at the feasibility of tax cuts. 
''Farther ahead, it is clear that 
the combination of restrained ~rowth ofoutlays (Federal spend-mg) and a progressive tax struc­
both possible and desirable," he said. 
In the rect"nt past, Congress has used a mixture of tax cuts and spending increases,such .as 
. public works and job creations, to fight recession. In the future, Blumeniruil said, ''This adminis­tration is determined to restrain the growth of federal expendi­tures and to rely principally on the private sector as the source of economic growth." 
The Treasury secretary also said that if Congress approves Caner's plan for sli~ht reduc­tions in some specJaJ Social Security benefits and enacts le­gislation to control hospital costs, 
a  reduction  in  Social  Security  
t~~"staning in  1981  may  be  
considered.  

He said less government borrowing will be necessary in 1979 and considerably less in 1980. If that forecast proves true, it could mean lower interest rates as home-builders and business feel less competition from the government for available credit. 
Meanwhile, the House Ways and Means Committee failed to muster a quorum and had to delay consideration of Carter's request for ~ additional $98 billion in borrowing authority through Sept. 30, 1980. The current debt limit of $798 billion is expected to fall short of the actual debt in about a month. · Unless a higher limit is set by that time, the government will be unable to borrow to_pay its bills. 
NANCI GREATHOUSE'S 
ROJECTION HAIR DESIGN STUDIOS 
Redken 1b% 
off on all services with this ad. 


SOMETHING NEW SOMETHING DIFFERENT SOMETHING UNUSUAL 
Mon. &Thurs. 12:00-8:30
2029 L.W.W. 
255-7959 

MISHAWAKA Wed., Fri. & Sat. 9:00-5:00 
Jim Canavan 

up ~titions for Student Body PresJdem and Student Body Vice President at a meeting last night in LaFortune: Bill Roche-­SBPI Bill Vita, SBVP; Mike "Hymie" Heaney SBP/Ryan Van Berkmoes, SBVP; Dan Portman-­SBP/Eilleen Wirley SBVP. 
c 

R 
ACROSS 311. Adum'• domain D 0 W N 
31 ~·umily m••ml>t'r 
I. Sharp ftavor 1. Tht.' 11piper's
3:!. Onndy or fop
0 
5. 
Minf'ral f'pnng son"

33. Farm t•ncloaun 
R. I....enn.to 2. FrUit drink
34. Mongr~l

s 
12. 
Smell 



3r.. Slight color 3. NeJI'atin word 
13. Humor 

36. St'ed ca~t' 4. Imaginary mio· 
14. "A-ofT"'"

s 
37. Roam about chief-maker 
Citie•." 

31!. llrawing room 
5. Sal>t'r 
Dl~kun~ tttWl'l 

H. Rcwrh<•rslt>d 
6. Pale rPd
w 15. ~out, 
42. 
apportion 
16. Inferior: 
~~­
hyph wd.
0 
41!.
R 
18. Evnn.,rli•t 
20. Fortifit'd 
D 49. 21. lmpa~sivt.• 
;,o.
24. Vagrant 
s f>l. 25. Shy 26. Budd>· 52. 27. Nourish,•d r.3. 
24. 111-l>t'havrd 
26. 
Golf•r'• up..•rt score 

27. 
Stock of mon<"Y 

28. 
Mov<• •idewuy• 

29. 
Fort>•t nnimnl 


31. Unexploded 
shell :12. "Doohickey" 3~. Ice-crrum 
hoide• 
35. 
Varntion "souvenir" 

36. 
AsKumed an attitud<• 

37. 
Liquid 3R. Bl•mish 


39. 
Century plant 

40. 
Solitary 

41. 
Govern 


43. Head covering 
45. Expert 


Mardis Gras 
[continued from page 1] WSND will broadcast live from , Stepan Center each evening throughout Mardi Gras, and the station will be choosing contest­ants for shows (The Mating Game and Let's Make A Deal) from the audience at Stepan Center. The carnival will be open at the following hours: Feb. 9--6p.m. to 2 a.m.;Feb. 10--2p.m. to 2a.m.; 
Feb.  11-4p.m.  to  12  midnight;  
Feb.  l2-15--6p.m.  to  midnight;  
Feb.  16--6p.m.  to  2a.m.;  and  

Feb. 17--2p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Students file election petitions 
The following students picked 
2 word!\ for a 7. Con•umed 
Gl hair styI<• 
8. RagPFiohhook wonn 

9. Injure

Firot-rat.to: 
10. Otherwioe2 wds. 

II. Property till<'

Frothy brew Land measur«.· 
17. Drag Hollow· 19. Give assist.anrt• "tt·mnwd grnss 21. Pace 
For each 22. Ocf'an's ri!lr 
Adol~•rPnt 
and fall 
23. Prophetic sign 
46. 
Wrath 

47. 
Cardinal number 



Yesterday's answers 
Rowing Oub to assemble 
There will be a mandatory generaJ meeting for all members of the Notre Dame Rowing Club on Sunday, February 11 (not February 4 as announced yester­day.. The meeting will be held at 7:30PM in the auditorium on the main floor of LaFortune. The topics to be discussed will be the Florida trip and the racing sched­ule. Everyone must attend this meeting. 

-------------------------~..~..--·------------------------------------------------------------~ 

ND :s Fencers ~efeared four teams in last weeks opener to up thezr consecutive wzns to 89. Defending NCAA champ Mike Sullivan was 8-0. ' 
SMC swimmers ·split dual meet 
by Debbie Dahrling Women Sports Editor 
Participating in their second dual meet of the season, in Holland, MI, the Saint Mary's swim team again split the meet with a sound defeat over Adrian College 92-31, and a loss to Hope College, 75-55. 
With the dual efforts of Maria Spicuzza and Ellen Crowe, the Belles had little trouble against Adrian. Both swimmers finished ftrst in three events to put SMC in a comfortable position. Spi­cuzza was first in the 50-yard breaskstroke, the 200-yard free­style, and the 100-yard breast­stroke events. Crowe swam smoothly to first place in the 50-yard backstroke, the 200-yard 
I.M. (individual medley), and the 100-yard butterfly. 
Team captain Kathy Haggerty added two more first-place points to the team score in the 500-yard freestyle and the 50-yard butter­fly. 
• • • Sweep 
[continued from page 16] 
year, lines up at his .forward position. Kiki Vandeweghe has shown a lot of improvement at the other forward slot. Gig Sims will start at center and share time with Darrell Allums and ] ames Wilkes. 
While Phelps' boasts a seem­ingly inexhaustible supply of talent, Gary Cunningham puts all his eggs rn a basket held by Greenwood, Hamilton, Holland and Vandeweghe. Greenwood is the top scorer and reboun~er averagmg 17.8 ppg, but only four points per game seperate the next three names. However, the quality of play drops off notice­ably thereafter as Wilkes' 5. 7 ppg is fifth highest on the 16-3 UCLA team. 
Besides losing their fourth game of the year to Notre Dame, the Los Angeleans have been edged by Stanford and Arizona by three and one points respect­ively. Both defeats came on the road. 
The Bruins have bounced back 
Carrie Meyer added ~ few 
finishing touches of her own as 
she finished in first place in the 
50-yard breaskstroke and the 
50-yard freestlye events. 
Meyer, along with Crowe and 
Peggy O'Brien, is working to 
qualify for regionals in March. 
Meyer missed qualifying for the 
50-yard freestyle event by .01 in 
the meet Wednesday night. 
According to coach ] ane Lam-· 
mers, "We're hoping that Carrie 
will soon have a qualifying time 
and three Saint Mary's swim­
mers will be going to regionals.'' 
In the second meet, Hope 
College swam past the Belles by 
20 points, but SMC never gave 
up. "We had second-place 
finished in almost every event to 
rack up the points," Lammers 
said, "but they (Hope ColleEe) 
just kept on coming in ftrst 
place." 

The Belles were strong in the . 50-yard and the 100-yard back­stroke with Crowe and Kathy 
in their last five games, winning all convincingly. V andeweghe and Holland have possessed the golden tough during the winning streak. A hot hand is nothing new for Holland who leads the team in field goal per cent with a .643 average. Hollands 10-13 ·· field goal performance against ND earlier in the year kept his team in the game. 
Vandeweghe, who scored only six points in that ftrst meeting, has averaged 18 ppg. over the last ftve games thanks to a better than 70 per cent accuracy rate from the floor during that hiatus. 
Notre Dame, at 17-2, has also won its last five outings. The 
. Irish have showedsymptomsof a team under great pressure emenating from their lofty num­ber one national ranking. Never­theless, Phelps' protege's have managed to roll up enough points to win against tough competition. 
Tipoff for the nationally tele­vised contest is set for 1 p.m. EST. 
Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 13 
Sullivan up to 149-2 

Fertcers extend streak to 89 
by Paul Mullaney Sports Wnter 

N01RE DAME, IN --After passing their ftrst test of the 1979 season, Mike DeCicco and his Notre Dame fencers are ridin~ on an 89-meet winning streak mto this weekend's action. 
The two-time defending na­tional champions uavel to Mich­igan-Dearborn Friday, before fencing Detroit and Chicago at Wayne State (in Detroit) on Saturday. 
In search of its fourth suaight undefeated campaign, Notre Dame, nov.-4-0, defeated Wiscon­sin-Parkside (23-4), Milwaukee Technical College (23-4), Cleve­land State {20-7) and Tri-State College {24-3) last Saturday in Angola, Ind. 
As anticipated, the Irish sabre squad posted the most impres­sive record last weekend, win­ning all but five of its 36 bouts. Two-time gold medalist Mike Sullivan won all of eight indivi­dual bouts, raising his all-time mark to 149-2, greatest in Irish annals. 
] unior sabreman Chris Lyons 
Sweeney frnishing ftrst respect­ively. The SMC medley relay also came in ftrst with the squad ofDowling, Baldy, Sweeney, and Gross. These three wins, how­ever, were not enough for the Belles to catch up as Hope College went on to win 75-55. 
SMC's season record is· now 2-2 with two more meets scheduled, one against Valpa­raiso on Feb. 15 and another dual meet against Notre Dame and DePauw on Feb. 17. 
posted the best mark of anyone prove its billing as "inexperi­during the weekend competition, enced" as nothing m·ore than a however, remaining unbeaten in fallacy. The squad was victorious nine bouts. ] .P. McGuire, a against all four opponents, with a senior, posted" a 4-0 weekend 29-7 total tally to show for it. mark while making an impressive Included in that weekend total showing. was a 9-0 sweep of MATC. 
The Irish foil team received Mike Carney and Mike Scher­strong outings from captain Steve moly led the way for the epeeists, Salimando, Andy Bonk, Jim each posing a 7-2 ledger. Tom Thompson and Ray Benson. Cullum won six of eight bouts to Benson won all but one of seven add to the epee success. bouts, while the other three The St. Mary's team won two 
combined for a 21-0 mark while  of three  meets  last  weekend,  
posting  identical  individual  re-.  ·  Tri-State  (8-1)  and  
cords.  and falling to Park- 
The  

It will say that you're a qualified engineer, and that you're on your way to a success­fl~l engineering career. Except for one thing. An opportunity to prove yourself! And that's where Sargent & Lundy comes in. 
We're a foremost engineering consulting firm, serving the electrical power industry since 1891. And we've grown to become one of the largest companies of our kind, more than SEXTUPLING in St\Jff in just 14 years. Every year we are adding engineers to our select professional staff. 
We offer a unique atmosphere ...of and by Engineers. Our partners •• all Engineers. As for job stability, our contract commitmertts guarantee you'll be challenged for y1~ars to come. 
Centrally located in Chicago's famous Loop, you'll have easy access to the lakefront, cultural and entertainment centers and dynamic Michigan Avenue. And because we're sc1 sure you'll love Chicago, we'll pay for relocation expenses. Let's discuss your future, our company and how we can unite the two. 
Meet our Employment Representative on campus on Friday, February 9, 1979 
(312) 269-2000 

SARGENT & LUNDY ENGINEERS 55 E. Monroe St./ Chicago, Illinois 60603 
An Af(irmatiue Action Employer 
SARGENT?&LUNDY 
ENGINEERS 

J 
/ 
~--~~ ~~~~~~-------~­
----~~~---------------------------­
The Observer Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 15 
,_.
100 90 80

Mardi 
70 Gras 
60 50 

raffle 
40 return:­
30 
20 
• I

I I 
I I I 
• 
•
10 

I I 
I I I 
I

I I I I 
1 . I 
... 


.....:! ~ .....:! ~ u 0 
~0
<u 
. 

All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Fnday. 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m All
Classifieds ·­cla~>ifieds must be pre·paid. e1ther in person or through the ma11 
Notices 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

Student loans $2D-$150, 1 percent Inter­est, due In 30 days. LaFortune Basement 11:30-12:30 m-f. 
Accurate. fast typing. Mrs. Bedford, 288-2107. Hours: 8 AM to 5 PM. 
Gay students of Notre Dame/St. Mary's 
Gay Information llne--8870 
Call Friday, February 9, 10 PM to 
mldn~ht 
Satur ay, February 10, 10 PM to mid­night 
or write P.O. Box 206 
Happy rlourl Frldar from 3-6, Pandora's Is offering a 2 for sale on used books. Located behind NO APTS. 233-2342. 
Ski bus ~ to Boyne Country, $86. Includes I glng, meals, lift tickets and transportation. Leave Fri.. Feb. 23 at 5 PM. Return Sun .. Feb. 25. Sponsor-Bendix Woods Ski Patrol. Contact Corky Patton, 234-9307. 
Experienced ~plst will do typing out of home. Call 27 -1401. 
Attention all Logan volunteers and Inter­ested students! 
This Friday. February 9th, from 7:30 to 10 PM, Is the annual Valentines Day dance for the mentally handlca~ped kids and adults of the community. he dance Is In the Logan Center cafeteria, and the live band Is Pages. an excellent rock group. So come join In on the fun, refreshments, and boogie down. Help the kids have agreat time! No admission charge. 
Other Logan actlvltes: Bowling Friday 3:20-6 PM (meet at ND Library circle). Saturda~ rec this Saturday from 9-11 :30 AM. arvilla formal SundaA night. Volunteers needed to help In omestart and L~an classrooms durl~ the week. Call M eat 1371 or Sue at -1-4832. 
NOCTURNE NIGHTFLIGHT* WSN0189 FM. JOE CAREY FEATURES OSCAR PETERSON ET JOE PASS* "A SALLE PLEYEL" TONIGHT. SATURDAY BOB DIEMER FEATURES GOOD TUNES* SUNDAY TIM KRAUSE FEATURES BOB JAMES'S "HEADS". 
lost & Foun~:l 
Found: Sliver lighter with Initials. Foun•1 near Memorial Library on 2/6. Call 331 .~ to Identify. 
. 

Found: Mon~ found on 12th floor of the Libra~ Sun ay night. Call 2172 l1l ldentl amount. 
-

Lost: Brown corduroy blazer, Frlda:1 night between Morrissey and Grotto. If found please contact 4-1-4993. 
-

Lost: one pair rimless eyeglasses, gold frame. 288-4540. 
-

Lost: Black "Lamy" mechanical pencil with sliver tip last Saturday In the south dining hall or Eng. Bldg. I would ver1 much appreciate to get It back. Cali Eduardo 288-6740, evenings. 
-

Lost: Calculator Tl-30 around Feb. 2-3. 
Call B.J. 288-4152. 
-

Found: one student basketball season ticket. Call 3608 to Identify. 
-

Found: 2 pairs ~oves after NO Student Players tryouts uesday. Call Student Union and Identify. 
. 

Lost: one crutch outside the Library about aweek and ahalf ~o. If you've seen this crutch alive, call Ike at 1678. 
-

Lost: gym clothes wra~ In gray sweat ~nts at South Dining all, Thurs., 211. all Bob--3209. 
Lost: a Sterling Parker pen Frldarc at either Cashier or Student Account off ces. If found call Bart at 1078. 
Lost: Ladles top of brown sweatsult at Ace-mo. 
Lost: one college class rlnf-St. John Fisher College. all 272-984 . 
Lost-set of keys at or outside ACC Monday night. If found call 8424. 
Lost: one pair of ?lasses around the North Quad on Feb. . If found call Pat, 1827. 
Lost: at NO, at sterling sliver Mexican bracelet with four sections. Please call Meg at 4781. 
Lost: set of keys (8J on a Capricorn key 
ring. Please call 88-1893 and ask for 
Dave or Mark. 

For Rent 
Available for next year, 5-bedroom home-complet~ furnished. Call Nancy Humbarger. 2 -9364. 
House for rent, 913 Cedar St. 3 bedrooms, fully furnished. 288-6740, evenings. 
Furnished 4-6 bedroom house for rent this fall. Walkln~lstance to campus. Nice. Call 272-17 after 7 PM. 
Tired of the noise and crowds? How about aview of the river! Near campus. , Reasonable rent. Call 234-2662 or 234-8402. 
For rent: Immediate occupancy! 5 bedroom, 2 bath house, furnished and near Memorial Hospital. 6 month lease, $300 month plus utilities and security deposit. Call Bobble. 233-3161. 
4-5 bedroom, 2baths, available In June or 
thereafter. $300 month. 232-9498 or 
291-4528. 

Wanted 
Barmeld wentad, •fi:'' In penon 1t 
Nlclde'a, Tuu. thru ura. lftlr I PM. 
Part-time help wanted. About ten hours per week In the evening. Must be 21. Apply In person at the Dlstillery-1723 South Bend Ave. 
OVERSEAS JOBS1Summer/year round. Euro/f:: s. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. All lelds, $500-$1200 monthly. Expen­ses paid. ~tseeln~ Free Info-Write IJC Box 44 14, Ber eley, CA. 94704. 
Need ride to Chicago Friday afternoon, Feb. 9. Share conversation and expenses Please call Marybeth, 288-9049. 
ST. LOUIS Ride needed for an~ week­end this semester to St. Louis. W II share expenses! Call Kevin, 8631. 
Needed: Someone who can vocally lmper­sonata John Wayne. Call 3079 8-noon Sunday. 
Buslnen Opportun::f.. Introduce Sun· dance toJour frlen s. Apply-2211 N. Meln 11 cKinley In Mlahaw1kl, or Clll 256-e971. 
Need ride to U of Michigan on March 2 and ride back after the game of the 4th: If you call help call Mike, 3889. 
For Sale 
OFF t;AMPUS STUDENT! Full alze [6 ft.~ rtfrtgeretor for 1111, S&O, 1787-tak for Iter. 
FOR SALE I Ru~ed winter boots, excell­ent condition. ark brown, size 8 112. Call Jeff at 1525 for Information. 
2GA tickets for UCLA game. Best offer, phone Bob, 3463. 
Stereo: must sell, baby on way. Sansul 9090 receiver, 125 watts per channel, 2 pair of speakers, Teak 25o recorder, Dual turntable, Plckeri[;9 XV15 Cartridge. Call evenings 6-9: • 232-1711. 
Excellent UCLA ticket available, 6th row from floor, student section, megabuck range only, 3748, call late. 
TIRES ARE FOR LOVERS My Porsche Is gone. Boo hoo! Please bu~ my snow tires. 2 studded, gispaved 15 -15. Excellent condition. 2for $40. If purchaser Is gorgeous female type 25 percent discount plus one date to movie or concert of her choice. If male, 1o percent mark ug.Call AL PACIN at 3748. If not In ask for his roommate Adonis. 
USED BOOK SHOP. Wed., Sat., Sun., 9-7. Ralph C~rson, 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles. -2888. 
Have two UCLA tickets willing to sell, eager to bar~aln. Stop at 116 Morrissey and ask for lg Bob. 
For Sale: Hockey skates,~ads, etc. Good Quallf\• and condlt'"~'~· ,all Don, 1684. 
Personals 
StaJ tuned for Thl Adventuru Df Peneme Re ' a ongoing action-adventure-comedy series filmed on location here at Notre Dame. This week's episode: Panama struggles with 105 homework while fixing the broken therostat In his room an defendln~hls fellow dorm dwellers from the terri lng danger of a great fire-breathing roach. Stay tuned! 
Sunday marks the first year anniversary of the disappearance ot~t~rs. Brittan. 
Boys, whr aren't you looking for me? Miss ya, ove Mrs. Brittan. 
Support Carroll Hall! Unite and abolish! 
Shades of Slsa, It's Valentines's Day! Thinking of you here. ol' buddy! Placido P. 
Flusett1 end thl Su-Piatolettu ~Ill 1nd Dlsc~t-Ufo] lrt panting hllvl In flvar of~ Datudl meklna rulu thl Brulna. end Klmz tlol Rich, Mlkl, Bill L., Bill H., Ktvln, Mere, Tim., Silky, Tree, Kelly, Bruce, TI'ICJ end Digger. 
P.S.-We'rt good apor11-we lovt your ahortall 
CHRISTIE PETERS: Just a simple "HI, bunny!" to that "smile amon~ smiles" from that "candle In the wind. ' 
Jose, Wel~ht Watchers "suggested" weight 
for 5 eet, 7 inches. Is 124 lbs.  So I am  
overweight! I!  
P.  

Chuck, Happy 22nd to the Crayola kid. Love. Lisa 

Sue, I lit a candle for you In the grotto this morning, Good luck (HA* Ha) ·• MJB 
While moat JUIIIOfl Will hiVI thllr mommlea end 1ddl11 to contend with on the weekend Df the LISelle J1me, the rut of the Clmpua will heve to al with THE TAR BABIESlll 
Tha BAR CAR will ride egeln-na, WI won't be hading for thl11nd whlrt thl llrla ere tin, but WI will be doing "the 
oogle." 

SUNDAY FEB. 11 7-11 It B01r'a Had, featuring the mualc of Joy Flahlr, Becky HoHhoUII, !lnd Mlrthl huldlng. EASY LISTENING AFTER THE UCLA GAME. Speclllgullt: T.R. Pluldlng. 
VIckie-­Hope your birthday wishes come true from band-aids to vans. Woodley 
Let the Bruins see Green and Gold all da~. Buy your pompons In the dining ha Is-50 cents. 
Augusta Is a musta!!! 
SMC juniors and sorrhomores--now Is the time to start think ng In Augusta next year. 
Robert Redford lives In Augusta. Isn't that enough reason to check It out? 
We know something you don't know-come to the Augusta lottery meetings. 
For goodness sake-Buy a pompon so Frank LaGrotta can shut up. 
Don't forget: Student Union Pompon sale for the U LA game 5o cents In the dining halls. 
FLORIDIANS BEWAREIII J011 G11p1r end his nerce blndl Df cut·thi'Oitllnnde ND tonl8ht for thl 2nd ennUII G11p1rllll Celebret on tonight 1t 9:311 In the K Df C hill. 
To 3-b CIVIneugh 1nd upeclally Mike D1y: Think you for 1 "1 nice tvtnlng Jut Frldayll (IIIII of thl vt.J 
Miry Pit 
Don't fo11t to algn u8 for thl SMC 
Fruhman kl trip to ennonaburg. Slgnupa 1rt Feb. 13 In ":t:ne North Lounge. Thllkl trip Ia on Fe . 14. 
Tricia: You're the best roommate ever. Thanks for everything-have a fun week­end, I'll miss you!! 
Love and hugs, Josle 
Kit: Your n..Si frat dance. Hope it!$. fun. You're the greatest sister ever! Love, Jo 
HAPPER ZOOSTER* Hap~y 2oth, r.1u old man. (Beware of "killer after 1 .) AHAB 
SLN No Jack Daniels, no Ernie, no Italy. Just me. Happy 22nd. ILYBYTG. Har 
Dear Pa-Sorry I couldn't make It for pizza and beer. Maybe next Friday. John 
Florldl1ns 
We nlld your hllp In defending ND a~elnat J011 Gupar end his bind Df ~retu. Forces ere meeting In thl K Df C 
II tonight It 9:311. 
2nd Rllllnl North,
Some Df you mey Ill trlmpa, but moat Df us lrtn't...... 
DD If I Cln't Hit 1 room 111 Clmpua nut ynr, Cln I vt In Augllltl too? Mr. Bill 

It won't be Art Stock's R~l Manor In the summmer time, but It wl I be wild and we'll get where we want to go In tha BAR CAR. 
Mlchelob, the only beer our moms let us drink-
Tickets 
We CI'IVIICIIDnl Mtnl::.tum Ul on end wee111 f11llnten ova Imina UI'QI to go to thl ND-CLA 1111 rompl Fill fl'll to contlct Flullttl, Sat, w Dlaco­llpa 1t 4-1-6427 II you Cln funtll our bumln! dulrt for 3 UCLA Uxl [We'll PlY wei] 
Need 6 LaSalle tickets (GA or student) Call john 1031. 
Hel~! I need GA or student UCLA tickets. WII pay$$$ MJ 8117. 
Top price for one UCLA ticket, try me, Greg 8855. 
Wanted: 2 UCLA tix. GA or student. Jerry-1756. 
Will sell sultemates or provide much cash for UCLA student ticket. Call Mike at 1619. 
Help! Bobby desperate~eeds 4 (padded seat) UCLA tlx. l Please call 7fiJ7. 
Desperately need 1 or 2 student or GA UCLA tlx. Call 4-1-4103. 
Wanted: UCLA tix please. Call288-9988 (John). 
Alumnls needs 2 UCLA tix. $$$ 8656. 
Need 2 UCLA GA tickets, call 6117 days or 272-8359 nights. 
Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets for 
LaSalle ~ame. Call 3836. Desrcra ley need 2 UCLA tickets-Stu­den or GA-call1824. 
Emergency! Need one UCLA GA or Student ticket. Ray 289-8657. 
Desr.ra~need 3 UCLA tickets! Call Her at . 
Need one student or GA UCLA tlx. Call Larry at 8701. 
Wanted: UCLA tlx. Call Ed 1022. 
DesJ:rately need UCLA tickets. GA or stu ent. Call Pat at 2n-3422. 
I desperately need two GA or student tickets for the UCLA game. If I don't come through my sister will have my hide! Call Kevin Dat 1787. 
Badly needed: UCLA tickets, student or GA Any number u~ to five. PleaseI! !I Call Mike at 2n-1o 1. 
Wanted: 2 GA LaSalle tickets, call Marlbeth. 
PaiiUIIIIItllllll Hey Ill you peoplll Tht UCLAr.me II an tlltvlllon, lnd yeu CIA 1111 rt tyl toollll 
NUMBER OF DAYS 
rates , 

z ] 4 5 
Ill Q 

1-10 1.00 1.30 1.75 .2.00 2.25
! 11-15 1.40 1.85 2.50 2.80 3.15 
~ 16-20 1.80 ·2.40 3.25 3;60 4.05 
:n-25 2.20 2.95 4.00 4.40 5.10
""0 26-30 2.60 3.50 4.75 5.20 6.15 
IL 31-35 .).05 4.10 5.55 6.20 7.20 
Llol 

CD 36-41 3.50 4.70 6.35 7.20 8.25 ~ 41-45 3.95 5.30 7.15 6.20 9.30 ;::) 46-50 4.40 5.90 7.95 9.20 10.35
z 

.... .
-

:trt'~Y. -~-be~ ... 
.. '• . 

--------------------------~ -~ 
------------------~------------------------------------­
•, 

The Observer-Sports Friday, February 9, 1979 -page 16 



Guest Bruins seek revenge, Irish look for series sweep 
by Ray 0 'Brien Sports Editor 

Sunday will be a special day at the University of Notre Dame. It can be considered a holiday, right up there with Christmas, Easter, and Halloween. The outsider might say this is an exaggeration but to the members of the Notre Dame community, there is some­thing holy about this event. 
While a home USC football game comes but once every two years; the UCLA-ND clash at the ACC is an annual treat. This is the twenty-third time these two schools have met. But the aura that surrounds this series really was born in the ven place the action will take place this Sunday. 
Notre Dame's 71-70 stunner Bill Hanzlik 's defensive peiformance against UCLA 's Brad over the Bruins in 1971 stopped Holland will be one ofthe keys in Sunday's clash. an 88-game win streak that will 
Keep your eyes on the Ha:nz 
Put down the books and put on your stomping shoes. It's time to hitch up your pants and show another team who they're dealing with. Oh yea, this team happens to be from Los Angeles and has three players named Greenwood, Hamilton and Holland. They wear numbers 34,24 and 14 and are the ones hittmg only the net on their pregame practice shots. 
Don't bother to yell at those three players because they won't hear you. Oh, they'll hear the noise but the nervous, stumbling reacion usually following this racket will not be present. But don't don't stop yelling because the other guys in blue and gold uniforms are beginning to look around and some are inadvertently biting their fingernails. 
There is just no telling what will happen in a game between Notre Dame and UCLA. But the one thing you can bet on is that there will be a great deal ofexcitement, neither team will get blown out, and Greenwood, Hamilton and Holland will get their share ofpoints. How much of a share may be crucial, but it ts pretty safe to say that double digits will follow their names in the boxscore. 
Digger Phelps keeps saying that you have to assume Greenwood will get his 30 points. On December 9th, he only got 14. What Phelps' means is that Greenwood could score 30 points and the Irish could still win. This concensus All-American cannot be ignored but the key to beating UCLA is pressuring the guards, namely Hamilton and Holland. 
Hamilton was cold in the first meeting, so I 
suppose you can expect him to have a good game 
based on the law of averages. Holland single­
handedly kept the Bruins in the game earlier in the 
; 
Ray 

O'Brien 

year hitting 18 footers like only Tracy Jackson, Clay 
Mathews and a handful ofother players know how. 
Holland's hot hand was no fluke, as he has gone on 
to connect on over 64 per cent of his field goal 
attemr.ts, a head shaking statistic for a guard. ~ 
While Hamilton can go without shooting and 
UCLA will win, I don't think the same is true for 
Holland. Hamilton handles the ball at all times and 
almost every play originates with a pass from him. 
He is the ball handler and an extraordinary passer, 
so scoring is only an added bonus. 
However, Holland is out there to shoot. He and 
Hamilton are out on the court for over 35 minutes ·per game. In that 35 minutes, Holland must score 10 double figures or his team will be in trouble (unless they are playing Northwestern's football team in a game ofpick-up). To sto.P. the Bruins, the 
Irish must stop Holland. Enter Bill Hanzlik. 
Did you see Hanzlik travel on that layup attempt 
with a half a minute to go against NC. State? Dtd 
you see Hanzlik cover ''Hawkeye'' Whitney on that 
air ball shot? Then you know that Hanzlik could 
fail to score Sunday, and Notre Dame could still 
win; as long as Holland throws up a few air balls! 
Guys like Hanzlik don't get the spot light on them 
often but that's who I'll be watching on Sunday. 
probably never be approached again. This game also marked the rebirth of Notre Dame as a national power under the mater­nal care of Digger Phelps. 
Things have changed quickly in the past eight years. Phelps' squad have been on the long end of the stick in six of the last eight contests in the confines of the ACC. In fact. the u~coming game marks the beginrung of a 180 degree turnaround. Notre Dame is now in the driver's seat as the top ranked team in the nation, while the Bruins take the role of "the Spoiler." 
''The Spoiler'' is a portrayal the Notre Dame squad knows well. While UCLA was slipping from their throne as the kings of college basketball, it was a group of players clad in green and gold that helped lead the revolution. While their has been a struggle for power ever since, Phelps' Phenoms have at least for the time being replaced the Wizards of Westwood at the top of the heap. 
Notre Dame's domination over their western rivals has perplex-

ND to face Goshen, last hurral! for Lally 
by Bill Griffin Sports Wrzter 
On Saturday, Feb. 10, Notre Dame's women's varsity basket­ball team will be play10g their last game in the friendly confines of the A.C.C.. Coach Sharon Petro and assistant cooach Bo Scott have led their team to a perfect 4-0 record at home this year, and they hope to keep their unbeaten streak alive against a solid Goshen squad. The game, however, will be significant for another reason, since it will mark the last home appearance of Notre Dame's Ms. Basketball, Carol Lally. 
Four years ago, the slender 5'6" Lally was one of many girls who had hopes of becoming a member of Notre Dame's women's basketball team. She had been a standout all-around athlete in high school, finishing third in the state of Pennsylvania in the long jump, along with being a 4-year 


A look at their statistics 
ND UCLA 
PLAYER FG PCT FT PCT ASST REB PPG 
PLAYER FG PCT FT PCT ASST REB PPG Tripucka .539 .855 33 93 15.8 
David Greenwood .580 .792 39 189 17.8 Jackson .560 .725 36 84 12.3 
Brad Holland .643 .723 -90 34 . 16.9 Woolridge .623 .767 26 86 10.8 
Roy Hamilton .542 .647 123 46 16.7 Branning .494 .630 62 15 10.8 
Kiki Vandeweghe .637 .818 23 110 13.6 Flowers .670 .871 16 88 10.1 . 
James Wilkes .495 .559 28 65 5.7 Hanzlik .590 .808 52 44 6.6 
Gig Sims .447 .667 17 82 4.7 Laimbeer .554 .625 14 82 5.4 
Darrell Allums .444 .913 13 56 3.6 Wilcox .449 .857 39 15 4.8 
Tyren Naulls .472 .647 15 16 2.4 Mitchell .643 50 14 3.4
~ .565 

Mike Sanders .516 .750 4 31 2.6 Salinas .429 .765 9 22 4.6 
Marvin Thomas .250 1.000 5 6 2.0 
-
~1.3

Healy .500 .444 3 11 1.4 
Rennie Kelly .375 1.000 4 3 
Kelly .625 .000 2 3 1.0 
Mike Taylor .000 .000 0 0 0.0 Hawkins .375 .600 2 7 1.0 NOTRE DAME .555 .768 344 628 82.2 
UCLA .560 .742 361 679 83.8 OPPONENTS .470 :m 210 518 62.7 
OPPONENTS .453 .685 248 595 70.0 
I 
ed many fans and writers.. and contributed to the downfall of one Bruin mentor. This year's grad­uating Irish players are looking for their sixth successful effort in eight tries against Ua.A. Notre Dame has won the last three contests in the heralded series. 
Regardless of who wins and ND-UCLA basketball ~arne, the fans are rarely disappotnted. The margin of victory has not exce­eded five points in the last five confrontations. By all indications, Sunday'_~ game is not likely to be any different. The teams are evenly matched, extremely motivated and the fans are ready to make sure no one, including a nationally televised audience, gets bored. . 
The Bruins will start the same five players that ~ook the court at the outset of the earlier meeting at Pauley Pavilion. The All­American combination of Roy Hamilton and Brad Holland man the guard/ositions while David Greenwoo , thP most prominenet returning college player this 
[continued on page 13] 

starter in basketball. 
As a freshman at a University 
known for its athletic prowess, 
however, Carol was faced with 
the challenge of proving herself 
all over agatn. Her performance 
was slightly less than remark­
able, as she earned enough 
confidence from her teammates 
to be picked as a captain for her 
sophomore season. 
The accomplishments of this 
young woman during the /ast 
four seasons have dominate the 
record books. Among her 
achievements have been the most 
points in a game, the most field 
goals in a game, the most points 
10 a season, the most field goals 
in a season, and the highest 
scoring average in a season. 
What these records do not 
reveal is that even more 
important than her ability to 
score has been her leadership 
and court savvy. Her mild­
mannered appearance off the 
court belies the intensity with 
hihhdirc e ects herself andh

w s er 
teammates while on·the court. 
In addition to her athletic 

career at Notre Dame, Carol has 
accumulated a 3.85 average in 
her rsre-medical studies, and she 
is a so an accor:Jllished artist. 
One might natur y wonder what 
such a well-rounded student-
athlete would consider to be her 
most satisfying achievement 
during her college career. 
When asked if anything in 
particular has been most 
memorable, her predictably 
unselfish rep~ was, ' 'the friends 
that I've rna e." She explains, 
''Winning games and special 
awards are fun, but they come 
and go. The friendships are the 
thin1which I value the most, and 
whic I hope will last the 
longest." 
On Saturday at 4:00 P.M., the 
women's Fi~htil Irish basket­
ball team wt I bi farewell to its 
only graduating member, three-
year captain Carol Lally. It is 
safe to assume, however, that the 
t:eputation she has earned will 
remain long after she scores 
her last basket. Says sister 
Mag~ie Lally, a 5-foot sophomore 
follo; , "She's quite the girl to 
ow." For you, or for anyone ·else, Maggie. 








